hx),  ■( 


\^f^T^2. 


\ 


BOOK    973.4. H18   v.  1 2    c   1 
HAMILTON    #    WORKS 


This  book  may  be  kept 

FOURTEEN  DAYS 

A  fine  of  TWO  CENTS  will  be  charged  for  each  day 
the  book  is  kept  over  time. 


Constitutional  jEbition 


The  Works  of 


>^i. 


Alexander  Hamilton 


Edited  by 

Henry  Cabot  Lodge 


^*  The  sacred  rights  of  mankind  are  not  to  be  rummaged  for  among  old  parchments  or 
musty  records.  They  are  \rrittcn,  as  with  a  sunbeam,  in  the  whole  volume  of  human  nature, 
by  the  hand  of  the  Divinity  itself,  and  can  never  be  erased  or  obscured  by  mortal  power." 

[Hamilton — The  Fartner  Refuted^  1775,  iEt.  18.] 

"  We  are  laboring  hard  to  establish  in  this  country  principles  more  and  more  national^ 
and  free  from  all  foreign  ingredients,  so  that  we  may  be  neither  '  Greeks  nor  Trojans,'  but 
truly  Americans." — [Hamilton  to  King,  1796,  /Et.  39.] 


Volume  XII 


Go  Pc  Putnam's  Sons 

New  York  and  London 
^be  l?ntcF?erbocker  press 


Ube  ftnicfterbocfter  press,  flew  Jgorft 


CONTENTS 


PAGB 


No.  XLVI. — The  Influence  op  the  State  and  Fed- 
eral Governments  Compared  ...  3 

Federal  and  State  governments  only  different  agents  of 
the  same  constituents — The  first  attachment  of  the  people 
will  be  to  the  State  governments — Reasons  for  this — 
Popularity  will  come  to  the  federal  government  only  if  it 
is  better  administered — Reasons  for  this — Objection  on 
score  of  federal  military  power  answered — Concluding  re- 
marks on  the  proposition  that  the  powers  of  the  Union 
will  be  dangerous  to  the  State  governments. 

No.  XLVII. — The   Particular   Structure   op  the 

New  Government  and  the  Distribution  op 

Power  among  its  Different  Parts        .         .         13 

The  maxim  that  there  should  be  separate  and  distinct 
departments  considered — This  maxim  true — The  new  Con- 
stitution does  not  violate  it — The  views  of  Montesquieu — 
The  provisions  of  the  various  State  constitutions  on  this 
point  examined. 

No.  XLVIII. — These  Departments  should  not  be 
so  Far  Separated  as  to  Have  No  Constitu- 
tional Control  over  Each  Other         .         .         24 

Powers  of  one  department,  it  is  conceded,  should  not  be 
exercised  by  another — One  department  should  not  have 
an  overruling  influence  over  another — Security  against 
the  invasion  of  one  department  by  another  considered — 
Insufficiency  of  new  constitutional  restrictions — The 
tendency  of  the  legislature  to  absorb  the  other  depart- 
ments— Reasons  for  this — An  instance  of  executive  en- 
croachment explained. 

iii 


iv  Contents 


PAGB 


No.  XLIX. — Method  of  Guarding  against  the  En- 
croachments OF  Any  One  Department  op 
Government  by  Appealing  to  the  People 
through  a  Convention 31 

Propriety  of  a  well-defined  mode  of  appealing  to  the  peo- 
ple— A  sufficient  remedy — Very  dangerous  and  useless  if 
too  frequently  applied — Reasons  for  this — When  such 
appeals  are  useful — Remarks  on  occasional  appeals  to  the 
people. 

No.  L. — Periodical  Appeals  to  the  People  Consid- 
ered   38 

The  merits  and  disadvantages  of  short  and  long  inter- 
vals— Example  of  Pennsylvania. 

No.  LI. — The  Structure  of  the  Government  must 

Furnish  the  Proper  Checks  and  Balances 

between  the  different  departments  .         42 

Modes  of  obtaining  these  mutual  checks  and  balances — 
Advantages  of  the  federal  government  in  securing  the 
rights  of  the  people — Division  of  the  delegated  powers — 
Different  interests  among  the  people. 

No.  LII. — The  House  of  Representatives       .         .         50 

Electors — The  qualifications  of  the  members — The  term 
of  office — Biennial  elections — Value  of  frequent  elections 
— ^Terms  of  service  in  other  governments — In  England, 
Ireland,  and  in  the  American  colonies — Biennial  elections 
not  dangerous — Reasons  for  this  drawn  from  the  nature 
and  position  of  Congress. 

No.  LIII. — The  Same  Subject  Continued  .         .         57 

Objection  that  when  annual  elections  end  tyranny  be- 
gins answered — Biennial  elections  necessary  and  useful — 
Objections  to  unduly  short  terms — Biennial  elections  use- 
ful and  safe. 

No.  LIV. — The  Apportionment  of  Members  among 

THE  States        .......         65 

Ntmibers  the  proper  standard  for  representation — Slave 
representation — Objection  that  slaves  do  not  enter  into 
local  representation  considered — The  right  of  representa- 
tion of  property  as  well  as  persons — Votes  in  Congress 


Contents  v 

PAGE 

should  be  proportioned  to  the  wealth  of  the  States — No 
inducement  for  falsifying  the  census,  as  it  is  the  basis  of 
taxation  as  well  as  representation. 

No.  LV. — The  Total  Number  of  the  House  of  Rep- 
resentatives     73 

Importance  attached  to  this  subject — Difficulty  of  de- 
termining the  proper  number — Small  States  require  smaller 
ratios — Limited  powers  of  Congress  do  not  demand  a 
numerous  representation — Various  objections  considered 
and  answered — Sources  of  danger  considered. 

No.  LVI. — The  Same  Subject  Continued  .         .         80 

Objection  that  Congress  will  be  too  small  to  know  the 
interests  and  wishes  of  its  constituents  considered — The 
representative  ought  to  know  the  interests  of  his  constitu- 
ents— Objects  of  federal  legislation — A  few  representatives 
will  be  sufficient — Taxation — Militia — The  experience  of 
Great  Britain. 

No.  LVII. — ^The  Alleged  Tendency  of  the  New 
Plan  to  Elevate  the  Few  at  the  Expense 
OF  the  Many  Considered  in  Connection  with 
Representation       .......         87 

This  objection,  in  principle,  strikes  at  the  root  of  repre- 
sentative government — Members  elected  by  and  taken 
from  all  classes — Securities  to  ensure  fidelity  of  members 
enumerated — Provisions  for  electing  members,  and  their 
qualifications,  like  those  of  State  officers — The  relative 
numbers  of  the  constituencies  no  reason  for  approval  of 
State  and  disapproval  of  federal  system — The  doctrine 
neither  reasonable  nor  admissible — It  is  not  sustained  by 
facts — Examples  from  House  of  Commons  and  from  the 
States. 

No.  LVIIL — Objection  that  the  Number  of  Mem- 
bers WILL  not  be  Augmented  as  the  Progress 
of  Population  Demands,  Considered      .         .        95 

The  State  constitutions  compared  on  this  point  with  the 
one  proposed — The  practice  of  the  State  governments — 
The  organization  of  Congress  will  induce  watchfulness — 
The  large  States  will  control  the  small — Objection  that  the 
Senate  will  prevent  augmentation  answered — The  consti- 


vi  Contents 

PAGB 

tutional  resource  of  refusing  supplies  by  the  House — 
Reasons  against  a  numerous  House — Objection  to  a  ma- 
jority being  a  quorum  of  which  a  majority  can  enact  laws, 
considered. 

No.  LIX. — Concerning  the  Power  of  Congress  to 

Regulate  the  Election  of  Members     .         .       103 

Every  government  must  have  the  means  of  self-preserva- 
tion— Different  depositaries  of  this  power  considered — 
Exact  character  and  extent  of  this  power — If  this  power 
not  given,  the  federal  government  will  be  at  the  mercy  of 
the  State  governments — The  right  of  self-preservation  in 
the  State  governments  unimpaired — Objection  that  the 
power  of  the  States  in  the  election  of  senators  is  equally 
dangerous,  considered — Reasons  for  this  retention  of 
power — Objection  that  the  interests  of  each  State  will  be  a 
sufficient  security  against  the  abuse  of  the  power  to  control 
the  election  of  members  by  the  State  governments,  con- 
sidered. 

No.  LX. — The  Same  Subject  Continued  .         .         .110 

Objection  that  by  this  power  Congress  may  promote  the 
election  of  a  favorite  class  and  exclude  others,  considered 
— Reasons  for  dismissing  this  objection  enumerated. 

No.  LXI. — ^The  Same  Subject  Continued  .         .       119 

Objection  that  there  should  be  a  provision  that  all  elec- 
tions should  be  held  within  the  counties  where  the  electors 
live — Such  a  provision  harmless  and  offers  no  security — 
This  provision  compared  with  those  of  State  constitutions 
— The  probability  that  the  power  of  Congress  to  fix  a  uni- 
form day  for  elections  will  be  very  important — The  want 
of  any  provision  in  the  Constitution  fixing  such  a  day  con- 
sidered— Concluding  remarks  on  the  general  subject. 

No.  LXII. — The  Senate 124 

Qualifications  of  senators — Appointment  of  senators  by 
State  legislatures — Equality  of  representation  in  Senate — 
Mixed  character  of  federal  government  requires  a  mixed 
representation — Equal  representation  in  Senate  a  recogni- 
tion of  sovereignty  in  the  States — The  number  of  senators 
and  the  term  for  which  they  are  elected — Need  of  such  an 
upper  house  as  a  security  against  improper  legislation, 
against  the  infirmity  of  faction,  against  ignorant  legisla- 


Contents  vii 


PAGE 


tion,  against  mutability  in  its  councils  from  frequent 
changes  of  members — Dangers  of  such  mutability 
enumerated. 

No.  LXIII. — The  Senate  Continued         .         .         .       134 

Prevents  a  want  of  a  due  sense  of  national  character,  of 
a  due  responsibility,  and  of  a  defence  against  temporary 
errors  and  delusions — History  shows  no  long-lived  republic 
without  a  Senate — Difference  between  the  ancient  repub- 
lics and  the  United  States — Athens,  Carthage,  Sparta, 
Rome,  Crete — Objection  that  the  Senate  will  acquire  a 
dangerous  preeminence  considered — Such  a  result  impossi- 
ble— Senate  of  Maryland — British  Parliament — Sparta, 
Rome,  Carthage — The  controlling  influence  of  the  House 
of  Representatives. 

No.  LXIV. — The  Powers  of  the  Senate  .         .       145 

The  treaty-making  power — Importance  of  this  power — 
Property  vested  in  the  Senate — A  popular  body  not  fit  for 
this  power — Reasons — Objections  to  this  power  in  the 
Senate  considered,  and  reasons  for  their  rejection  enumer- 
ated— The  responsibility  of  senators. 

No.  LXV. — The  Powers  of  the  Senate  Continued  .       154 

The  appointment  of  public  officers — The  authority  to  sit 
as  a  court  in  the  trial  of  impeachments — Difficidty  of  form- 
ing such  a  court — The  Senate  most  fit  for  such  a  trust — 
The  plan  of  delegating  this  authority  to  the  Supreme  Court 
considered  and  rejected — The  propriety  of  uniting  the 
Supreme  Court  in  this  power  with  the  Senate  considered 
and  denied — The  propriety  of  giving  this  authority  to 
other  persons  disconnected  with  any  department  of  the 
government  considered  and  denied — Even  if  this  power 
in  the  Senate  is  not  desirable  the  Constitution  should  not 
be  rejected. 

No.  LXVI. — Objections  to  the  Power  op  the  Sen- 
ate TO  Sit  as  a  Court  for  Impeachments 
Further  Considered 161 

Objection  that  it  unites  legislative  and  judicial  functions 
— ^This  same  provision  in  constitution  of  New  York  which 
opposition  admire — That  it  unduly  accumulates  power  in 
the  Senate,  and  tends  to  the  establishment  of  an  aris- 
tocracy— That  the  Senate  will  judge  too  leniently  officers 


viii  Contents 

PAGE 

for  whose  confirmation  it  has  voted — That  the  senators 
may  be  called  upon  to  try  themselves  for  a  corrupt  use  of 
the  treaty-making  power. 

No.  LXVII. — The  Executive  Department        .         .       170 

Misrepresentations  on  this  point  considered  and 
answered. 

No.  LXVIII. — The  Mode  of   Electing   the  Presi- 
dent . 176 

The  only  part  of  the  Constitution  not  condemned  by  its 
opponents — It  is  well  guarded — Desirable  to  have  the  sense 
of  the  people  in  the  choice — Desirable  that  the  choice 
should  be  made  by  competent  persons,  as  in  the  Electoral 
College:  to  avoid  tumult  and  disorder;  to  avoid  intrigue 
and  corruption ;  to  maintain  the  President  independent  of 
all  but  the  people — All  these  advantages  here  combined — 
Choice  will  seldom  fall  on  one  not  qualified — The  choice  of 
a  Vice-President  by  the  people  considered  and  approved. 

No.  LXIX. — The  Real  Character  of  the  Execu- 
tive   182 

A  single  person — Compared  with  the  king  of  Great 
Britain  and  the  governor  of  New  York — Elected  for  four 
years,  and  is  reeligible — Further  comparison  with  the  same 
executives — Liable  to  impeachment,  removal  from  office, 
and  punishment  by  civil  law — Compared  again  as  above, 
and  also  with  governors  of  Maryland  and  Delaware — 
Veto  power — Compared  again  as  above,  and  also  with 
governor  of  Massachusetts  —  Commander-in-chief  of 
militia  in  federal  service — Compared  again  as  above — 
Commander-in-chief  of  the  army  and  navy  of  the  United 
States — Compared  again  as  above,  and  also  with  governors 
of  New  Hampshire  and  Massachusetts — Pardoning  power 
— Compared  as  above — Treaty-making  power — Compared 
as  above — General  review  and  comparison  of  executive 
powers. 

No.  LXX. — The  Executive  Department  Further 

Considered 193 

A  vigorous  Executive  consistent  with  republican  govern- 
ment— What    constitutes   a   proper   Executive — Unity — 
Reasons  for  this — Vesting  executive  authority  in  two  or 
more  magistrates — Restraining  the  Executive  by  a  cotm- 


Contents  ix 

PAGE 

cil — Objections  to  plurality  and  control  by  council  enu- 
merated. 

No.  LXXI. — The  Duration  in  Office  of  the  Execu- 
tive   20$ 

It  affects  his  firmness  in  action — More  interest  in  what 
is  permanent — The  Executive  should  not  be  subservient 
to  popular  impulses  or  to  those  of  the  legislature — Inde- 
pendence of  departments  of  government  necessary — 
Shortness  of  term  will  lessen  independence — The  proposed 
term  of  four  years  considered. 

No.  LXXII. — The   Same   Subject    Continued,   and 

Reeligibility  of  the  Executive  Considered       211 

Duration  in  office  affects  stability  of  administration — 
Heads  of  department  dependent  on  Executive  and  will 
change  with  him — Reeligibility  of  Executive — The  oppo- 
sition to  it  considered — A  limit  of  a  single  term  would 
diminish  inducements  to  good  behavior,  increase  tempta- 
tions to  misconduct,  prevent  experience  in  the  office, 
deprive  the  country  in  emergencies  of  the  services  of  the 
best  men,  and  act  as  a  constitutional  barrier  to  stability  of 
administration — The  supposed  advantages  of  a  single 
term  considered — The  people  should  not  be  prevented 
from  choosing  men  of  experience. 

No.  LXXIII. — The  Provision  for  the  Support  op 

THE  Executive,  and  the  Veto  Power     .         .       219 

Without  suitable  provision  the  Executive  will  be  at  the 
mercy  of  the  legislature,  and  the  independence  of  the 
Executive  should  not  be  impaired — The  veto  power — 
Reasons  for  and  against  enumerated  and  considered — The 
veto  power  not  absolute — It  already  exists  in  New  York 
and  Massachusetts. 

No.  LXXIV. — The  Command  of  the  Military  and 
Naval  Forces,  and  the  Pardoning  Power  of 
THE  Executive 228 

No.  LXXV. — The   Treaty-Making   Power   of   the 

Executive 232 

One  of  the  best  features  of  the  Constitution — Objection 
that  it  combines  the  executive  and  legislative  departments 


X  Contents 

PAGE 

considered — It  is  a  proper  combination — Reason  for  this — 
House  of  Representatives  cannot  properly  be  admitted — 
Objection  to  requiring  only  two  thirds  of  senators  present. 

No.  LXXVI. — ^The  Appointing  Power  of  the  Ex- 
ecutive      239 

This  an  excellent  feature — This  power  cannot  be  exer- 
cised by  the  people  at  large — It  will  cause  a  livelier  sense  of 
duty  in  the  Executive — Objection  to  its  being  intrusted  to 
the  President  alone — He  may  be  overruled  by  Senate — 
Concurrence  of  Senate  a  check  on  favoritism — Objection 
that  the  President  may  thus  control  Senate  considered — 
Whole  body  of  Senate  cannot  be  corrupted — Protection  of 
Constitution. 

No.  LXXVII. — The  Appointing  Power  Continued 
AND  Other  Powers  of  the  Executive  Consid- 
ered ........       246 

The  concurrence  of  the  Senate  necessary  to  displace  as 
well  as  to  appoint — Objections  as  to  undue  control  of  the 
Senate  by  the  President,  or  the  reverse,  considered — Com- 
pared with  system  of  appointment  in  New  York — Ap- 
pointing power  should  be  delegated  to  a  council  or  shared  in 
by  the  House — Power  to  communicate  information  to  Con- 
gress ;  to  recommend  measures  to  Congress ;  to  convene  one 
or  both  branches  of  Congress;  to  adjourn  Congress;  to 
receive  ambassadors  and  other  public  ministers;  to  exe- 
cute the  laws  of  the  Union;  to  commission  all  officers  of 
the  United  States — Concluding  remarks  on  the  Executive. 

No.  LXXVIII. — The  Judiciary  Department     .         .       254 

Mode  of  appointment — Tenure — Need  of  complete  inde- 
pendence— Authority  pronounced  on  the  constitutionality 
of  the  laws — The  legislature  should  be  the  judge  of  its  own 
powers — Interpretation  of  the  laws  the  peculiar  province 
of  the  judiciary — Need  of  independence  on  this  account — 
Independence  required  for  judiciary  as  guardians  of  the 
Constitution  and  of  private  rights  as  well — Wisdom  of  re- 
quiring good  behavior  as  the  tenure. 

No.  LXXIX. — ^The  Judiciary  Continued  .         .       265 

A  fixed  provision  for  the  support  of  the  judiciary  neces- 
sary to  their  independence — Responsibility  of  the  judiciary 
— Judges  liable  to  impeachment — Cannot   be  made  re- 


Contents  xi 


PAGE 


movable    for    inability — Reasons    for    this — Comparison 
with  constitution  of  New  York. 

No.  LXXX. — The  Powers  of  the  Judiciary     .         .       269 

To  what  cases  the  judicial  authority  ought  to  extend — 
To  all  cases  which  arise  from  duly  enacted  laws  of  the 
Union;  which  concern  the  execution  of  the  provisions  of 
the  Constitution;  in  which  the  United  States  is  a  party; 
which  involve  the  peace  of  the  Union  in  foreign  relations, 
or  when  two  States,  or  a  State  and  the  citizens  of  another 
State,  or  the  citizens  of  different  States,  are  parties; 
which  originate  on  the  high  seas  or  are  of  admiralty  juris- 
diction ;  in  which  State  tribunals  cannot  be  supposed  to  be 
implicated — To  what  cases  authority  of  judiciary  will 
extend  under  proposed  Constitution — Statement  of  con- 
stitutional provisions — These  provisions  conform  to  what 
the  powers  of  the  judiciary  ought  to  be — Propriety  of  dele- 
gating equity  jurisdiction. 

No.  LXXXI. — The  Judiciary  Continued,  and  the 

Distribution  of  the  Judicial  Authority       .       279 

Propriety  of  establishing  one  court  of  final  and  supreme 
jurisdiction — Propriety  of  delegating  judicial  authority  to 
a  distinct  department — Objections  to  this  considered — 
This  delegation  of  authority  secures  more  completely  the 
separation  of  the  judiciary  from  the  legislature,  recognizes 
more  fully  the  principle  of  good  behavior  as  a  tenure,  se- 
cures greater  legal  ability,  and  removes  the  judiciary  from 
party  strife — The  example  of  certain  of  the  States — That 
no  legislature  can  rectify  judicial  mistakes  except  as  to 
future  action,  and  the  danger  of  encroachments  by  the 
judiciary  on  the  legislature,  considered — Propriety  of  con- 
stituting inferior  courts — Relief  to  Supreme  Court — State 
courts  not  fit  for  this — Advantage  of  dividing  United  States 
into  judicial  districts — Manner  in  which  authority  should 
be  distributed — Original  jurisdiction  of  Supreme  Court — 
Original  jurisdiction  of  inferior  courts — Appellate  jurisdic- 
tion of  Supreme  Court, 

No.  LXXXII. — ^The  Judiciary  Continued         .         .       293 

The  jurisdiction  of  the  State  courts  on  federal  questions 
— ^The  State  courts  will  retain  all  that  is  not  exclusively 
delegated — Decision  of  causes  arising  from  a  particular 


xll  Contents 

PAGE 

regulation  may  be  delegated  by  Congress  exclusively  to 
Supreme  Court — Relation  between  State  and  federal 
courts  when  they  have  concurrent  jurisdiction — An  appeal 
will  lie  from  State  courts  to  the  Supreme  Court — The  ap- 
pellate jurisdiction  of  the  inferior  federal  courts. 

No.  LXXXIII. — The  Judiciary  Continued  in  Rela- 
tion TO  Trial  by  Jury      .....       299 

Objection  that  there  is  no  provision  in  the  proposed 
Constitution  for  trial  by  jury  in  civil  cases  considered — 
True  meaning  of  maxims  on  which  this  objection  rests — 
Importance  of  right  of  trial  by  jury  considered — Criminal 
and  civil  cases — ^Jury  system  in  different  States — Diffi- 
culty of  establishing  a  general  rule — Impropriety  of  such 
a  general  rule  in  certain  cases — The  proposition  of  Massa- 
chusetts— The  provisions  of  the  New  York  constitution — 
The  proposition  that  the  jury  system  should  be  established 
in  all  cases  whatever — Concluding  remarks. 

No.  LXXXIV. — Certain  General  and  Miscella- 
neous Objections  to  the  Constitution  Con- 
sidered and  Answered    .....       320 

Bill  of  rights — Liberty  of  the  press — Seat  of  government 
too  remote — No  provision  for  debts  due  to  the  United 
States — Additional  expenses  of  new  system — Concluding 
remarks. 

No.  LXXXV. — Concluding  Remarks         .         .         .       336 

Manner  in  which  subject  has  been  discussed — An  appeal 
to  the  reader  to  weigh  the  matter  carefully  and  act  con- 
scientiously— Confidence  of  Publius  in  the  arguments  which 
he  has  advanced — The  conceded  imperfections  no  reason 
for  delay — Extent  of  them  exaggerated — The  Constitution 
not  radically  defective — Rights  and  interests  of  the  people 
safe  under  Constitution — Not  perfect,  but  a  good  plan — 
The  state  of  the  country  forbids  delay  in  vainly  seeking  a 
perfect  plan — Difficulty  of  having  another  convention — 
Easier  to  cure  defects  by  amendments  after  the  adoption 
— No  plan  can  be  satisfactory  to  all  the  States — Supposed 
obstacles  in  the  way  of  making  subsequent  amendments 
considered — ^The  ease  with  which  a  federal  convention 
may  be  called  to  make  amendments — Conclusion. 


Contents  xiii 

PAGE 

Appendix: 

The  Articles  of  Confederation     .         .         .  349 

The  Constitution  of  the  United  States  and 

the  Amendments  Thereto        .         .         .  362 

Index 393 


THE   FEDERALIST— Continued 


VOL.  XII. — X, 


THE  FEDERALIST— Confy'nued 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Tuesday,  January  29,  1788 

THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  XLVI 
(madison) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York : 

Resuming  the  subject  of  the  last  paper,  I  proceed 
to  inquire  whether  the  federal  government  or  the 
State  governments  will  have  the  advantage  with 
regard  to  the  predilection  and  support  of  the  people. 
Notwithstanding  the  different  modes  in  which  they 
are  appointed,  we  must  consider  both  of  them  as 
substantially  dependent  on  the  great  body  of  the 
citizens  of  the  United  States.  I  assume  this  posi- 
tion here  as  it  respects  the  first,  reserving  the  proofs 
for  another  place.  The  federal  and  State  govern- 
ments are  in  fact  but  different  agents  and  trustees 
of  the  people,  constituted  with  different  powers,  and 
designed  for  different  purposes.  The  adversaries  of 
the  Constitution  seem  to  have  lost  sight  of  the  people 
altogether  in  their  reasonings  on  this  subject ;  and  to 
have  viewed  these  different  establishments,  not  only 
as  mutual  rivals  and  enemies,  but  as  uncontrolled 
by  any  common  superior  in  their  efforts  to  usurp  the 
authorities  of  each  other.  These  gentlemen  must 
here  be  reminded  of  their  error.     They  must  be  told 

3 


4  Alexander  Hamilton 

that  the  ultimate  authority,  wherever  the  derivative 
may  be  found,  resides  in  the  people  alone,  and  that 
it  will  not  depend  merely  on  the  comparative  ambi- 
tion or  address  of  the  different  governments,  whether 
either,  or  which  of  them,  will  be  able  to  enlarge  its 
sphere  of  jurisdiction  at  the  expense  of  the  other. 
Truth,  no  less  than  decency,  requires  that  the 
event  in  every  case  should  be  supposed  to  depend 
on  the  sentiments  and  sanction  of  their  common 
constituents. 

Many  considerations,  besides  those  suggested  on 
a  former  occasion,  seem  to  place  it  beyond  doubt 
that  the  first  and  most  natural  attachment  of  the 
people  will  be  to  the  governments  of  their  respective 
States.  Into  the  administration  of  these  a  greater 
number  of  individuals  will  expect  to  rise.  From 
the  gift  of  these  a  greater  number  of  offices  and 
emoluments  will  flow.  By  the  superintending  care 
of  these,  all  the  more  domestic  and  personal  interests 
of  the  people  will  be  regulated  and  provided  for. 
With  the  affairs  of  these,  the  people  will  be  more 
familiarly  and  minutely  conversant.  And  with  the 
members  of  these,  will  a  greater  proportion  of  the 
people  have  the  ties  of  personal  acquaintance  and 
friendship,  and  of  family  and  party  attachments; 
on  the  side  of  these,  therefore,  the  popular  bias  may 
well  be  expected  most  strongly  to  incline. 

Experience  speaks  the  same  language  in  this  case. 
The  federal  administration,  though  hitherto  very 
defective  in  comparison  with  what  may  be  hoped 
under  a  better  system,  had,  during  the  war,  and  par- 
ticularly whilst  the  independent  fund  of  paper  emis- 


The  Federalist  5 

sions  was  in  credit,  an  activity  and  importance  as 
great  as  it  can  well  have  in  any  future  circumstances 
whatever.  It  was  engaged,  too,  in  a  course  of 
measures  which  had  for  their  object  the  protection 
of  every  thing  that  was  dear,  and  the  acquisition  of 
every  thing  that  could  be  desirable  to  the  people  at 
large.  It  was,  nevertheless,  invariably  found,  after 
the  transient  enthusiasm  for  the  early  Congresses 
was  over,  that  the  attention  and  attachment  of  the 
people  were  turned  anew  to  their  own  particular  gov- 
ernments ;  that  the  federal  council  was  at  no  time  the 
idol  of  popular  favor;  and  that  opposition  to  pro- 
posed enlargements  of  its  powers  and  importance 
was  the  side  usually  taken  by  the  men  who  wished 
to  build  their  political  consequence  on  the  prepos- 
sessions of  their  fellow-citizens. 

If,  therefore,  as  has  been  elsewhere  remarked,  the 
people  should  in  future  become  more  partial  to  the 
federal  than  to  the  State  governments,  the  change 
can  only  result  from  such  manifest  and  irresistible 
proofs  of  a  better  administration,  as  will  overcome 
all  their  antecedent  propensities.  And  in  that  case, 
the  people  ought  not  surely  to  be  precluded  from 
giving  most  of  their  confidence  where  they  may  dis- 
cover it  to  be  most  due;  but  even  in  that  case  the 
State  governments  could  have  little  to  apprehend, 
because  it  is  only  within  a  certain  sphere  that  the 
federal  power  can,  in  the  nature  of  things,  be  advan- 
tageously administered. 

The  remaining  points  on  which  I  propose  to  com- 
pare the  federal  and  State  governments,  are  the 
disposition  and  the  faculty  they  may  respectively 


6  Alexander  Hamilton 

possess,  to  resist  and  frustrate  the  measures  of  each 
other. 

It  has  been  already  proved  that  the  members  of 
the  federal  will  be  more  dependent  on  the  members 
of  the  State  governments,  than  the  latter  will  be  on 
the  former.  It  has  appeared  also,  that  the  pre- 
possessions of  the  people,  on  whom  both  will  depend, 
will  be  more  on  the  side  of  the  State  governments, 
than  of  the  federal  government.  So  far  as  the  dis- 
position of  each  towards  the  other  may  be  influenced 
by  these  causes,  the  State  governments  must  clearly 
have  the  advantage.  But  in  a  distinct  and  very 
important  point  of  view,  the  advantage  will  lie  on 
the  same  side.  The  prepossessions,  which  the  mem- 
bers themselves  will  carry  into  the  federal  govern- 
ment, will  generally  be  favorable  to  the  States; 
whilst  it  will  rarely  happen,  that  the  members  of  the 
State  governments  will  carry  into  the  public  councils 
a  bias  in  favor  of  the  general  government.  A  local 
spirit  will  infallibly  prevail  much  more  in  the  mem- 
bers of  Congress,  than  a  national  spirit  will  prevail 
in  the  legislatures  of  the  particular  States.  Every 
one  knows  that  a  great  proportion  of  the  errors  com- 
mitted by  the  State  legislatures  proceeds  from  the 
disposition  of  the  members  to  sacrifice  the  compre- 
hensive and  permanent  interest  of  the  State,  to  the 
particular  and  separate  views  of  the  counties  or  dis- 
tricts in  which  they  reside.  And  if  they  do  not 
sufficiently  enlarge  their  policy  to  embrace  the  col- 
lective welfare  of  their  particular  State,  how  can  it 
be  imagined  that  they  will  make  the  aggregate  pro- 
sperity of  the  Union,  and  the  dignity  and  respectabil- 


The  Federalist  7 

ity  of  its  government,  the  objects  of  their  affections 
and  consultations?  For  the  same  reason  that  the 
members  of  the  State  legislatures  will  be  unlikely 
to  attach  themselves  sufficiently  to  national  objects, 
the  members  of  the  federal  legislature  will  be  likely 
to  attach  themselves  too  much  to  local  objects.  The 
States  will  be  to  the  latter  what  counties  and  towns 
are  to  the  former.  Measures  will  too  often  be  decided 
according  to  their  probable  effect,  not  on  the  national 
prosperity  and  happiness,  but  on  the  prejudices,  in- 
terests, and  pursuits  of  the  governments  and  people 
of  the  individual  States.  What  is  the  spirit  that  has 
in  general  characterized  the  proceedings  of  Con- 
gress? A  perusal  of  their  journals,  as  well  as  the 
candid  acknowledgments  of  such  as  have  had  a  seat 
in  that  assembly,  will  inform  us,  that  the  members 
have  but  too  frequently  displayed  the  character, 
rather  of  partisans  of  their  respective  States,  than 
of  impartial  guardians  of  a  common  interest;  that 
where  on  one  occasion  improper  sacrifices  have  been 
made  of  local  considerations,  to  the  aggrandizement 
of  the  federal  government,  the  great  interests  of  the 
nation  have  suffered  on  a  hundred,  from  an  undue 
attention  to  the  local  prejudices,  interests,  and  views 
of  the  particular  States.  1  mean  not  by  these  re- 
flections to  insinuate,  that  the  new  federal  govern- 
ment will  not  embrace  a  more  enlarged  plan  of  policy 
than  the  existing  government  may  have  pursued; 
much  less,  that  its  views  will  be  as  confined  as  those 
of  the  State  legislatures ;  but  only  that  it  will  partake 
sufficiently  of  the  spirit  of  both,  to  be  disinclined  to 
invade  the  rights  of  the  individual  States,  or  the 


8  Alexander  Hamilton 

prerogatives  of  their  governments.  The  motives  on 
the  part  of  the  State  governments,  to  augment  their 
prerogatives  by  defalcations  from  the  federal  govern- 
ment, will  be  overruled  by  no  reciprocal  predisposi- 
tions in  the  members. 

Were  it  admitted,  however,  that  the  Federal  gov- 
ernment may  feel  an  equal  disposition  with  the  State 
governments  to  extend  its  power  beyond  the  due 
limits,  the  latter  would  still  have  the  advantage  in 
the  means  of  defeating  such  encroachments.  If  an 
act  of  a  particular  State,  though  unfriendly  to  the 
national  government,  be  generally  popular  in  that 
State,  and  should  not  too  grossly  violate  the  oaths 
of  the  State  officers,  it  is  executed  immediately,  and, 
of  course,  by  means  on  the  spot  and  depending 
on  the  State  alone.  The  opposition  of  the  federal 
government,  or  the  interposition  of  federal  officers, 
would  but  inflame  the  zeal  of  all  parties  on  the  side 
of  the  State,  and  the  evil  could  not  be  prevented  or 
repaired,  if  at  all,  without  the  employment  of  means 
which  must  always  be  resorted  to  with  reluctance 
and  difficulty.  On  the  other  hand,  should  an  un- 
warrantable measure  of  the  federal  government  be 
unpopular  in  particular  States,  which  would  seldom 
fail  to  be  the  case,  or  even  a  warrantable  measure  be 
so,  which  may  sometimes  be  the  case,  the  means  of 
opposition  to  it  are  powerful  and  at  hand.  The  dis- 
quietude of  the  people;  their  repugnance  and,  per- 
haps, refusal  to  cooperate  with  the  officers  of  the 
Union;  the  frowns  of  the  executive  magistracy  of 
the  State;  the  embarrassments  created  by  legisla- 
tive devices,  which  would  often  be  added  on  such 


The  Federalist  9 

occasions,  would  oppose,  in  any  State,  difficulties 
not  to  be  despised;  would  form,  in  a  large  State, 
very  serious  impediments;  and  where  the  senti- 
ments of  several  adjoining  States  happened  to  be  in 
unison,  would  present  obstructions  which  the  federal 
government  would  hardly  be  willing  to  encounter. 

But  ambitious  encroachments  of  the  federal  gov- 
ernment, on  the  authority  of  the  State  governments, 
would  not  excite  the  opposition  of  a  single  State,  or 
of  a  few  States  only.  They  would  be  signals  of  gen- 
eral alarm.  Every  government  would  espouse  the 
common  cause.  A  correspondence  would  be  opened. 
Plans  of  resistance  would  be  concerted.  One  spirit 
would  animate  and  conduct  the  whole.  The  same 
combinations  in  short,  would  result  from  an  appre- 
hension of  the  federal,  as  was  produced  by  the  dread 
of  a  foreign,  yoke;  and  unless  the  projected  innova- 
tions should  be  voluntarily  renounced,  the  same  ap- 
peal to  a  trial  of  force  would  be  made  in  the  one  case 
as  was  made  in  the  other.  But  what  degree  of  mad- 
ness could  ever  drive  the  federal  government  to  such 
an  extremity.  In  the  contest  with  Great  Britain, 
one  part  of  the  empire  was  employed  against  the 
other.  The  more  numerous  part  invaded  the  rights 
of  the  less  numerous  part.  The  attempt  was  unjust 
and  unwise ;  but  it  was  not  in  speculation  absolutely 
chimerical.  But  what  would  be  the  contest  in  the 
case  we  are  supposing?  Who  would  be  the  parties? 
A  few  representatives  of  the  people  would  be  opposed 
to  the  people  themselves;  or  rather  one  set  of  re- 
presentatives would  be  contending  against  thirteen 
sets    of    representatives,   with  the   whole  body   of 


lo  Alexander  Hamilton 

their   common    constituents    on    the   side    of    the 
latter. 

The  only  refuge  left  for  those  who  prophesy  the 
downfall  of  the  State  governments  is  the  visionary 
supposition  that  the  federal  government  may  pre- 
viously accumulate  a  military  force  for  the  projects 
of  ambition.  The  reasonings  contained  in  these 
papers  must  have  been  employed  to  little  purpose 
indeed,  if  it  could  be  necessary  now  to  disprove  the 
reality  of  this  danger.  That  the  people  and  the 
States  should,  for  a  sufficient  period  of  time,  elect  an 
uninterrupted  succession  of  men  ready  to  betray 
both;  that  the  traitors  should,  throughout  this 
period,  uniformly  and  systematically  pursue  some 
fixed  plan  for  the  extension  of  the  military  establish- 
ment; that  the  governments  and  the  people  of  the 
States  should  silently  and  patiently  behold  the 
gathering  storm,  and  continue  to  supply  the  ma- 
terials, until  it  should  be  prepared  to  burst  on  their 
own  heads,  must  appear  to  every  one  more  like  the 
incoherent  dreams  of  a  delirious  jealousy,  or  the 
misjudged  exaggerations  of  a  counterfeit  zeal,  than 
like  the  sober  apprehensions  of  genuine  patriotism. 
Extravagant  as  the  supposition  is,  let  it  however  be 
made.  Let  a  regular  army,  fully  equal  to  the  re- 
sources of  the  country,  be  formed;  and  let  it  be 
entirely  at  the  devotion  of  the  federal  government; 
still  it  would  not  be  going  too  far  to  say,  that  the 
State  governments,  with  the  people  on  their  side, 
would  be  able  to  repel  the  danger.  The  highest 
number  to  which,  according  to  the  best  computa- 
tion, a  standing  army  can  be  carried  in  any  country, 


The  Federalist  ii 

does  not  exceed  one  hundredth  part  of  the  whole 
number  of  souls;  or  one  twenty-fifth  part  of  the 
number  able  to  bear  arms.  This  proportion  would 
not  yield,  in  the  United  States,  an  army  of  more 
than  twenty-five  or  thirty  thousand  men.  To  these 
would  be  opposed  a  militia  amounting  to  near  half 
a  million  of  citizens  with  arms  in  their  hands, 
officered  by  men  chosen  from  among  themselves, 
fighting  for  their  common  liberties,  and  united  and 
conducted  by  governments  possessing  their  affections 
and  confidence.  It  may  well  be  doubted,  whether 
a  militia  thus  circumstanced  could  ever  be  con- 
quered by  such  a  proportion  of  regular  troops.  Those 
who  are  best  acquainted  with  the  last  successful  re- 
sistance of  this  country  against  the  British  arms,  will 
be  most  inclined  to  deny  the  possibility  of  it.  Be- 
sides the  advantage  of  being  armed,  which  the 
Americans  possess  over  the  people  of  almost  every 
other  nation,  the  existence  of  subordinate  govern- 
ments, to  which  the  people  are  attached,  and  by 
which  the  militia  officers  are  appointed,  forms  a 
barrier  against  the  enterprises  of  ambition,  more  in- 
surmountable than  any  which  a  simple  government 
of  any  form  can  admit  of.  Notwithstanding  the 
military  establishments  in  the  several  kingdoms  of 
Europe,  which  are  carried  as  far  as  the  public  re- 
sources will  bear,  the  governments  are  afraid  to 
trust  the  people  with  arms.  And  it  is  not  certain, 
that  with  this  aid  alone  they  would  not  be  able 
to  shake  off  their  yokes.  But  were  the  people  to 
possess  the  additional  advantages  of  local  govern- 
ments chosen  by  themselves,  who  could  collect  the 


12  Alexander  Hamilton 

national  will  and  direct  the  national  force,  and  of 
officers  appointed  out  of  the  militia,  by  these  gov- 
ernments, and  attached  both  to  them  and  to  the 
militia,  it  may  be  affirmed  with  the  greatest  assur- 
ance, that  the  throne  of  every  tyranny  in  Europe 
would  be  speedily  overturned  in  spite  of  the  legions, 
which  surround  it.  Let  us  not  insult  the  free  and 
gallant  citizens  of  America  with  the  suspicion,  that 
they  would  be  less  able  to  defend  the  rights  of  which 
they  would  be  in  actual  possession,  than  the  de- 
based subjects  of  arbitrary  power  would  be  to  rescue 
theirs  from  the  hands  of  their  oppressors.  Let  us 
rather  no  longer  insult  them  with  the  supposition 
that  they  can  ever  reduce  themselves  to  the  necessity 
of  making  the  experiment,  by  a  blind  and  tame  sub- 
mission to  the  long  train  of  insidious  measures  which 
must  precede  and  produce  it. 

The  argument  under  the  present  head  may  be  put 
into  a  very  concise  form,  which  appears  altogether 
conclusive.  Either  the  mode  in  which  the  federal 
government  is  to  be  constructed  will  render  it 
sufficiently  dependent  on  the  people,  or  it  will  not. 
On  the  first  supposition,  it  will  be  restrained  by 
that  dependence  from  forming  schemes  obnoxious 
to  their  constituents.  On  the  other  supposition,  it 
will  not  possess  the  confidence  of  the  people,  and  its 
schemes  of  usurpation  will  be  easily  defeated  by  the 
State  governments,  who  will  be  supported  by  the 
people. 

On  summing  up  the  considerations  stated  in  this 
and  the  last  paper,  they  seem  to  amount  to  the  most 
convincing  evidence,  that  the  powers  proposed  to 


The  Federalist  13 

be  lodged  in  the  federal  government  are  as  little 
formidable  to  those  reserved  to  the  individual  States, 
as  they  are  indispensably  necessary  to  accomplish 
the  purposes  of  the  Union ;  and  that  all  those  alarms 
which  have  been  sounded,  of  a  meditated  and  con- 
sequential annihilation  of  the  State  governments, 
must,  on  the  most  favorable  interpretation,  be  as- 
cribed to  the  chimerical  fears  of  the  authors  of  them. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  the  New  York  Packet ^  Friday^  February  i,  1788 
i?HE  FEDERALIS'5?.     No.  XLVII 
(madison) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

Having  reviewed  the  general  form  of  the  proposed 
government  and  the  general  mass  of  power  allotted 
to  it,  I  proceed  to  examine  the  particular  structure 
of  this  government,  and  the  distribution  of  this  mass 
of  power  among  its  constituent  parts. 

One  of  the  principal  objections  inculcated  by  the 
more  respectable  adversaries  to  the  Constitution,  is 
its  supposed  violation  of  the  political  maxim,  that 
the  legislative,  executive,  and  judiciary  departments 
ought  to  be  separate  and  distinct.  In  the  structure 
of  the  federal  government,  no  regard,  it  is  said, 
seems  to  have  been  paid  to  this  essential  precaution 
in  favor  of  liberty.  The  several  departments  of 
power  are  distributed  and  blended  in  such  a  manner 
as  at  once  to  destroy  all  symmetry  and  beauty  of 
form,  and  to  expose  some  of  the  essential  parts  of 


1 4  Alexander  Hamilton 

the  edifice  to  the  danger  of  being  crushed  by  the 
disproportionate  weight  of  other  parts. 

No  poHtical  truth  is  certainly  of  greater  intrinsic 
value,  or  is  stamped  with  the  authority  of  more 
enlightened  patrons  of  liberty,  than  that  on  which 
the  objection  is  founded.  The  accumulation  of  all 
powers,  legislative,  executive,  and  judiciary,  in  the 
same  hands,  whether  of  one,  a  few,  or  many,  and 
whether  hereditary,  self-appointed,  or  elective,  may 
justly  be  pronounced  the  very  definition  of  tyranny. 
Were  the  federal  Constitution,  therefore,  really 
chargeable  with  the  accumulation  of  power,  or  with 
a  mixture  of  powers,  having  a  dangerous  tendency 
to  such  an  accumulation,  no  further  arguments 
would  be  necessary  to  inspire  a  universal  reproba- 
tion of  the  system.  I  persuade  myself,  however, 
that  it  will  be  made  apparent  to  every  one,  that  the 
charge  cannot  be  supported,  and  that  the  maxim  on 
which  it  relies  has  been  totally  misconceived  and 
misapplied.  In  order  to  form  correct  ideas  on  this 
important  subject,  it  will  be  proper  to  investigate 
the  sense  in  which  the  preservation  of  liberty  re- 
quires that  the  three  great  departments  of  power 
should  be  separate  and  distinct. 

The  oracle  who  is  always  consulted  and  cited  on 
this  subject  is  the  celebrated  Montesquieu.  If  he 
be  not  the  author  of  this  invaluable  precept  in  the 
science  of  politics,  he  has  the  merit  at  least  of  dis- 
playing and  recommending  it  most  effectually  to 
the  attention  of  mankind.  Let  us  endeavor,  in  the 
first  place,  to  ascertain  his  meaning  on  this  point. 

The    British    Constitution    was    to    Montesquieu 


The  Federalist  15 

what  Homer  has  been  to  the  didactic  writers  on  epic 
poetry.  As  the  latter  have  considered  the  work  of 
the  immortal  bard  as  the  perfect  model  from  which 
the  principles  and  rules  of  the  epic  art  were  to  be 
drawn,  and  by  which  all  similar  works  were  to  be 
judged,  so  this  great  political  critic  appears  to  have 
viewed  the  Constitution  of  England  as  the  standard, 
or  to  use  his  own  expression,  as  the  mirror  of  politi- 
cal liberty;  and  to  have  delivered,  in  the  form  of 
elementary  truths,  the  several  characteristic  prin- 
ciples of  that  particular  system.  That  we  may  be 
sure,  then,  not  to  mistake  his  meaning  in  this  case, 
let  us  recur  to  the  source  from  which  the  maxim  was 
drawn. 

On  the  slightest  view  of  the  British  Constitution, 
we  must  perceive  that  the  legislative,  executive,  and 
judiciary  departments  are  by  no  means  totally  sepa- 
rate and  distinct  from  each  other.  The  executive 
magistrate  forms  an  integral  part  of  the  legislative 
authority.  He  alone  has  the  prerogative  of  making 
treaties  with  foreign  sovereigns,  which,  when  made, 
have,  under  certain  limitations,  the  force  of  legis- 
lative acts.  All  the  members  of  the  judiciary  de- 
partment are  appointed  by  him,  can  be  removed  by 
him  on  the  address  of  the  two.  Houses  of  Parliament, 
and  form,  when  he  pleases  to  consult  them,  one 
of  his  constitutional  councils.  One  branch  of  the 
legislative  department  forms  also  a  great  constitu- 
tional council  to  the  executive  chief,  as,  on  another 
hand,  it  is  the  sole  depositary  of  judicial  power  in 
cases  of  impeachment,  and  is  invested  with  the 
supreme   appellate  jurisdiction   in   all   other   cases. 


1 6  Alexander  Hamilton 

The  judges,  again,  are  so  far  connected  with  the 
legislative  department  as  often  to  attend  and  par- 
ticipate in  its  deliberations,  though  not  admitted  to 
a  legislative  vote. 

From  these  facts,  by  which  Montesquieu  was 
guided,  it  may  clearly  be  inferred  that,  in  saying 
**  There  can  be  no  liberty  where  the  legislative  and 
executive  powers  are  united  in  the  same  person,  or 
body  of  magistrates,"  or,  '*if  the  power  of  judging 
be  not  separated  from  the  legislative  and  executive 
powers,"  he  did  not  mean  that  these  departments 
ought  to  have  no  partial  agency  in,  or  no  control  over, 
the  acts  of  each  other.  His  meaning,  as  his  own 
words  import,  and  still  more  conclusively  as  illus- 
trated by  the  example  in  his  eye,  can  amount  to  no 
more  than  this,  that  where  the  whole  power  of  one 
department  is  exercised  by  the  same  hands  which 
possess  the  whole  power  of  another  department,  the 
fundamental  principles  of  a  free  constitution  are 
subverted.  This  would  have  been  the  case  in  the 
constitution  examined  by  him,  if  the  king,  who  is 
the  sole  executive  magistrate,  had  possessed  also 
the  complete  legislative  power,  or  the  supreme  ad- 
ministration of  justice;  or  if  the  entire  legislative 
body  had  possessed  the  supreme  judiciary,  or  the 
supreme  executive  authority.  This,  however,  is  not 
among  the  vices  of  that  constitution.  The  magis- 
trate in  whom  the  whole  executive  power  resides 
cannot  of  himself  make  a  law,  though  he  can  put  a 
negative  on  every  law;  nor  administer  justice  in 
person,  though  he  has  the  appointment  of  those 
who  do  administer  it.     The  judges  can  exercise  no 


The  Federalist  17 

executive  prerogative,  though  they  are  shoots  from 
the  executive  stock;  nor  any  legislative  function, 
though  they  may  be  advised  with  by  the  legislative 
councils.  The  entire  legislature  can  perform  no 
judiciary  act,  though  by  the  joint  act  of  two  of  its 
branches  the  judges  may  be  removed  from  their 
offices,  and  though  one  of  its  branches  is  possessed 
of  the  judicial  power  in  the  last  resort.  The  entire 
legislature,  again,  can  exercise  no  executive  preroga- 
tive, though  one  of  its  branches  constitutes  the  su- 
preme executive  magistracy,  and  another,  on  the 
impeachment  of  a  third,  can  try  and  condemn  all  the 
subordinate  officers  in  the  executive  department. 

The  reasons  on  which  Montesquieu  grounds  his 
maxim  are  a  further  demonstration  of  his  meaning. 
''When  the  legislative  and  executive  powers  are 
united  in  the  same  person  or  body,"  says  he,  ''  there 
can  be  no  liberty,  because  apprehensions  may  arise 
lest  the  same  monarch  or  senate  should  enact  tyranni- 
cal laws  to  execute  them  in  a  tyrannical  manner." 
Again:  ''Were  the  power  of  judging  joined  with  the 
legislative,  the  life  and  liberty  of  the  subject  would 
be  exposed  to  arbitrary  control,  for  the  judge  would 
then  be  the  legislator.  Were  it  joined  to  the  execu- 
tive power,  the  judge  might  behave  with  all  the  vio- 
lence of  an  oppressor.''  Some  of  these  reasons  are 
more  fully  explained  in  other  passages;  but  briefly 
stated  as  they  are  here,  they  sufficiently  establish 
the  meaning  which  we  have  put  on  this  celebrated 
maxim  of  this  celebrated  author. 

If  we  look  into  the  constitutions  of  the  several 
States,  we  find  that,  notwithstanding  the  emphatical 


VOL.  XII.— 2. 


1 8  Alexander  Hamilton 

and,  in  some  instances,  the  unqualified  terms  in 
which  this  axiom  has  been  laid  down,  there  is  not 
a  single  instance  in  which  the  several  departments 
of  power  have  been  kept  absolutely  separate  and 
distinct.  New  Hampshire,  whose  constitution  was 
the  last  formed,  seems  to  have  been  fully  aware  of 
the  impossibility  and  inexpediency  of  avoiding  any 
mixture  whatever  of  these  departments,  and  has 
qualified  the  doctrine  by  declaring  ''that  the  legis- 
lative, executive,  and  judiciary  powers  ought  to  be 
kept  as  separate  from,  and  independent  of,  each 
other  as  the  nature  of  a  free  government  will  admit; 
or  as  is  consistent  with  that  chain  of  connection  that 
hinds  the  whole  fabric  of  the  constitution  in  one  in- 
dissoluble bond  of  unity  and  amity,''  Her  constitu- 
tion accordingly  mixes  these  departments  in  several 
respects.  The  Senate,  which  is  a  branch  of  the 
legislative  department,  is  also  a  judicial  tribunal  for 
the  trial  of  impeachments.  The  President,  who  is 
the  head  of  the  executive  department,  is  the  presid- 
ing member  also  of  the  Senate;  and,  besides  an 
equal  vote  in  all  cases,  has  a  casting  vote  in  case  of 
a  tie.  The  executive  head  is  himself  eventually 
elective  every  year  by  the  legislative  department, 
and  his  council  is  every  year  chosen  by  and  from  the 
members  of  the  same  department.  Several  of  the 
officers  of  state  are  also  appointed  by  the  legislature. 
And  the  members  of  the  judiciary  department  are 
appointed  by  the  executive  department. 

The  constitution  of  Massachusetts  has  observed 
a  sufficient  though  less  pointed  caution,  in  express- 
ing this  fundamental  article  of  liberty.     It  declares 


The  Federalist  19 

*'  that  the  legislative  department  shall  never  exercise 
the  executive  and  judicial  powers,  or  either  of  them; 
the  executive  shall  never  exercise  the  legislative  and 
judicial  powers,  or  either  of  them;  the  judicial  shall 
never  exercise  the  legislative  and  executive  powers, 
or  either  of  them."  This  declaration  corresponds 
precisely  with  the  doctrine  of  Montesquieu,  as  it  has 
been  explained,  and  is  not  in  a  single  point  violated 
by  the  plan  of  the  convention.  It  goes  no  farther 
than  to  prohibit  any  one  of  the  entire  departments 
from  exercising  the  powers  of  another  department. 
In  the  very  Constitution  to  which  it  is  prefixed,  a 
partial  mixture  of  powers  has  been  admitted.  The 
executive  magistrate  has  a  qualified  negative  on  the 
legislative  body,  and  the  Senate,  which  is  a  part  of 
the  legislature,  is  a  court  of  impeachment  for  mem- 
bers both  of  the  executive  and  judiciary  depart- 
ments. The  members  of  the  judiciary,  department, 
again,  are  appointable  by  the  executive  department, 
and  removable  by  the  same  authority  on  the  ad- 
dress of  the  two  legislative  branches.  Lastly,  a 
number  of  the  officers  of  government  are  annually 
appointed  by  the  legislative  department.  As  the 
appointment  to  offices,  particularly  executive  offices, 
is  in  its  nature  an  executive  function,  the  compilers 
of  the  Constitution  have,  in  this  last  point  at  least, 
violated  the  rule  established  by  themselves. 

I  pass  over  the  constitutions  of  Rhode  Island  and 
Connecticut,  because  they  were  formed  prior  to  the 
Revolution,  and  even  before  the  principle  under 
examination  had  become  an  object  of  political 
attention. 


20  Alexander  Hamilton 

The  constitution  of  New  York  contains  no  declara- 
tion on  this  subject;  but  appears  very  clearly  to 
have  been  framed  with  an  eye  to  the  danger  of 
improperly  blending  the  different  departments.  It 
gives,  nevertheless,  to  the  executive  magistrate,  a 
partial  control  over  the  legislative  department;  and, 
what  is  more,  gives  a  like  control  to  the  judiciary 
department;  and  even  blends  the  executive  and 
judiciary  departments  in  the  exercise  of  this  control. 
In  its  council  of  appointment  members  of  the  legis- 
lative are  associated  with  the  executive  authority, 
in  the  appointment  of  officers,  both  executive  and 
judiciary.  And  its  court  for  the  trial  of  impeach- 
ments and  correction  of  errors  is  to  consist  of  one 
branch  of  the  legislature  and  the  principal  members 
of  the  judiciary  department. 

The  constitution  of  New  Jersey  has  blended  the 
different  powers  of  government  more  than  any  of 
the  preceding.  The  governor,  who  is  the  executive 
magistrate,  is  appointed  by  the  legislature;  is  chan- 
cellor and  ordinary,  or  surrogate  of  the  State;  is  a 
member  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  Appeals,  and 
president,  with  a  casting  vote,  of  one  of  the  legislative 
branches.  The  same  legislative  branch  acts  again 
as  executive  council  of  the  governor,  and  with  him 
constitutes  the  Court  of  Appeals.  The  members 
of  the  judiciary  department  are  appointed  by  the 
legislative  department,  and  removable  by  one  branch 
of  it,  on  the  impeachment  of  the  other. 

According  to  the  constitution  of  Pennsylvania,  the 
president,  who  is  the  head  of  the  executive  depart- 
ment, is  annually  elected  by  a  vote  in  which  the 


The  Federalist  21 

legislative  department  predominates.  In  conjunc- 
tion with  an  executive  council,  he  appoints  the  mem- 
bers of  the  judiciary  department,  and  forms  a  court 
of  impeachment  for  trial  of  all  officers,  judiciary  as 
well  as  executive.  The  judges  of  the  Supreme  Court 
and  justices  of  the  peace  seem  also  to  be  removable 
by  the  legislature;  and  the  executive  power  of  par- 
doning in  certain  cases,  to  be  referred  to  the  same 
department.  The  members  of  the  executive  council 
are  made  ex- officio  justices  of  peace  throughout 
the  State. 

In  Delaware,  the  chief  executive  magistrate  is 
annually  elected  by  the  legislative  department.  The 
speakers  of  the  two  legislative  branches  are  vice- 
presidents  in  the  executive  department.  The  ex- 
ecutive chief,  with  six  others,  appointed,  three  by 
each  of  the  legislative  branches,  constitutes  the  Su- 
preme Court  of  Appeals;  he  is  joined  with  the 
legislative  department  in  the  appointment  of  the 
other  judges.  Throughout  the  States,  it  appears 
that  the  members  of  the  legislature  may  at  the  same 
time  be  justices  of  the  peace;  in  this  State,  the 
members  of  one  branch  of  it  are  ex- officio  justices 
of  the  peace ;  as  are  also  the  members  of  the  executive 
council.  The  principal  officers  of  the  executive  de- 
partment are  appointed  by  the  legislative;  and 
one  branch  of  the  latter  forms  a  court  of  impeach- 
ments. All  officers  may  be  removed  on  address  of 
the  legislature. 

Maryland  has  adopted  the  maxim  in  the  most  un- 
qualified terms;  declaring  that  the  legislative,  execu- 
tive, and  judicial  powers  of  government  ought  to  be 


22  Alexander  Hamilton 

forever  separate  and  distinct  from  each  other.  Her 
constitution,  notwithstanding,  makes  the  executive 
magistrate  appointable  by  the  legislative  depart- 
ment; and  the  members  of  the  judiciary  by  the 
executive  department. 

The  language  of  Virginia  is  still  more  pointed 
on  this  subject.  Her  constitution  declares,  "that 
the  legislative,  executive,  and  judiciary  departments 
shall  be  separate  and  distinct;  so  that  neither  exer- 
cise the  powers  properly  belonging  to  the  other;  nor 
shall  any  person  exercise  the  powers  of  more  than 
one  of  them  at  the  same  time,  except  that  the  justices 
of  county  courts  shall  be  eligible  to  either  House  of 
Assembly. ' '  Yet  we  find  not  only  this  express  excep- 
tion, with  respect  to  the  members  of  the  inferior 
courts,  but  that  the  chief  magistrate,  with  his  execu- 
tive council,  are  appointable  by  the  legislature;  that 
two  members  of  the  latter  are  triennially  displaced 
at  the  pleasure  of  the  legislature;  and  that  all  the 
principal  offices,  both  executive  and  judiciary,  are 
filled  by  the  same  department.  The  executive  pre- 
rogative of  pardon,  also,  is  in  one  case  vested  in  the 
legislative  department. 

The  constitution  of  North  Carolina,  which  declares 
"  that  the  legislative,  executive,  and  suprem^e  judicial 
powers  of  government  ought  to  be  forever  separate 
and  distinct  from  each  other,"  refers,  at  the  same 
time,  to  the  legislative  department,  the  appointment 
not  only  of  the  executive  chief,  but  all  the  prin- 
cipal officers  within  both  that  and  the  judiciary 
department. 

In   South   Carolina,   the  constitution   makes  the 


The  Federalist  23 

executive  magistracy  eligible  by  the  legislative  de- 
partment. It  gives  to  the  latter,  also,  the  appoint- 
ment of  the  members  of  the  judiciary  department, 
including  even  justices  of  the  peace  and  sheriffs; 
and  the  appointment  of  officers  in  the  executive 
department,  down  to  captains  in  the  army  and  navy 
of  the  State. 

In  the  constitution  of  Georgia,  where  it  is  declared 
''that  the  legislative,  executive,  and  judiciary  de- 
partments shall  be  separate  and  distinct,  so  that 
neither  exercise  the  powers  properly  belonging  to  the 
other, "we  find  that  the  executive  department  is  to 
be  filled  by  appointments  of  the  legislature ;  and  the 
executive  prerogative  of  pardon  to  be  finally  exer- 
cised by  the  same  authority.  Even  justices  of  the 
peace  are  to  be  appointed  by  the  legislature. 

In  citing  these  cases,  in  which  the  legislative, 
executive,  and  judiciary  departments  have  not  been 
kept  totally  separate  and  distinct,  I  wish  not  to  be 
regarded  as  an  advocate  for  the  particular  organiza- 
tions of  the  several  State  governments.  I  am  fully 
aware  that  among  the  many  excellent  principles 
which  they  exemplify,  they  carry  strong  marks  of 
the  haste,  and  still  stronger  of  the  inexperience,  under 
which  they  were  framed.  It  is  but  too  obvious  that  in 
some  instances  the  fundamental  principle  under  con- 
sideration has  been  violated  by  too  great  a  mixture, 
and  even  an  actual  consolidation,  of  the  different 
powers;  and  that  in  no  instance  has  a  competent 
provision  been  made  for  maintaining  in  practice  the 
separation  delineated  on  paper.  What  I  have  wished 
to  evince  is,  that  the  charge  brought  against  the 


24  Alexander  Hamilton 

proposed  Constitution,  of  violating  the  sacred  maxim 
of  free  government,  is  warranted  neither  by  the  real 
meaning  annexed  to  that  maxim  by  its  author,  nor 
by  the  sense  in  which  it  has  hitherto  been  understood 
in  America.  This  interesting  subject  will  be  re- 
sumed in  the  ensuing  paper. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Friday,  February  i,  1788 

THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  XLVIII 
(madison) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

It  was  shown  in  the  last  paper  that  the  politi- 
cal apothegm  there  examined  does  not  require  that 
the  legislative,  executive,  and  judiciary  departments 
should  be  wholly  unconnected  with  each  other.  I 
shall  undertake,  in  the  next  place,  to  show  that  unless 
these  departments  be  so  far  connected  and  blended 
as  to  give  to  each  a  constitutional  control  over  the 
others,  the  degree  of  separation  which  the  maxim 
requires,  as  essential  to  a  free  government,  can  never 
in  practice  be  duly  maintained. 

It  is  agreed  on  all  sides,  that  the  powers  properly 
belonging  to  one  of  the  departments  ought  not  to  be 
directly  and  completely  administered  by  either  of  the 
other  departments.  It  is  equally  evident,  that  none 
of  them  ought  to  possess,  directly  or  indirectly,  an 
overruling  influence  over  the  others,  in  the  adminis- 
tration of  their  respective  powers.  It  will  not  be 
denied,  that  power  is  of  an  encroaching  nature,  and 
that  it  ought  to  be  effectually  restrained  from  passing 


The  Federalist  25 

the  Hmits  assigned  to  it.  After  discriminating,  there- 
fore, in  theory,  the  several  classes  of  power,  as  they 
may  in  their  nature  be  legislative,  executive,  or 
judiciary,  the  next  and  most  difficult  task  is  to  pro- 
vide some  practical  security  for  each,  against  the 
invasion  of  the  others.  What  this  security  ought  to 
be,  is  the  great  problem  to  be  solved. 

Will  it  be  sufficient  to  mark,  with  precision,  the 
boundaries  of  these  departments,  in  the  constitution 
of  the  government,  and  to  trust  to  these  parchment 
barriers  against  the  encroaching  spirit  of  power? 
This  is  the  security  which  appears  to  have  been 
principally  relied  on  by  the  compilers  of  most  of  the 
American  constitutions.  But  experience  assures  us, 
that  the  efficacy  of  the  provision  has  been  greatly 
overrated;  and  that  some  more  adequate  defence  is 
indispensably  necessary  for  the  more  feeble,  against 
the  more  powerful  members  of  the  government. 
The  legislative  department  is  ever3rwhere  extending 
the  sphere  of  its  activity,  and  drawing  all  power  into 
its  impetuous  vortex. 

The  founders  of  our  republics  have  so  much  merit 
for  the  wisdom  which  they  have  displayed,  that  no 
task  can  be  less  pleasing  than  that  of  pointing  out 
the  errors  into  which  they  have  fallen.  A  respect 
for  truth,  however,  obliges  us  to  remark,  that  they 
seem  never  for  a  moment  to  have  turned  their  eyes 
from  the  danger  to  liberty  from  the  overgrown  and 
all-grasping  prerogative  of  an  hereditary  magistrate, 
supported  and  fortified  by  an  hereditary  branch  of 
the  legislative  authority.  They  seem  never  to  have 
recollected  the  danger  from  legislative  usurpations, 


26  Alexander  Hamilton 

which,  by  assembling  all  power  in  the  same  hands, 
must  lead  to  the  same  tyranny  as  is  threatened  by 
executive  usurpations. 

In  a  government  where  numerous  and  extensive 
prerogatives  are  placed  in  the  hands  of  an  hereditary 
monarch,  the  executive  department  is  very  justly 
regarded  as  the  source  of  danger,  and  watched  with 
all  the  jealousy  which  a  zeal  for  liberty  ought  to 
inspire.  In  a  democracy,  where  a  multitude  of  peo- 
ple exercise  in  person  the  legislative  functions,  and 
are  continually  exposed,  by  their  incapacity  for  regu- 
lar deliberation  and  concerted  measures,  to  the 
ambitious  intrigues  of  their  executive  magistrates, 
tyranny  may  well  be  apprehended,  on  some  favorable 
emergency,  to  start  up  in  the  same  quarter.  But  in 
a  representative  republic,  where  the  executive  magis- 
tracy is  carefully  limited,  both  in  the  extent  and  the 
duration  of  its  power;  and  where  the  legislative 
power  is  exercised  by  an  assembly,  which  is  inspired 
by  a  supposed  influence  over  the  people,  with  an 
intrepid  confidence  in  its  own  strength;  which  is 
sufficiently  numerous  to  feel  all  the  passions  which 
actuate  a  multitude,  yet  not  so  numerous  as  to  be 
incapable  of  pursuing  the  objects  of  its  passions,  by 
means  which  reason  prescribes;  it  is  against  the 
enterprising  ambition  of  this  department  that  the 
people  ought  to  indulge  all  their  jealousy  and  exhaust 
all  their  precautions. 

The  legislative  department  derives  a  superiority 
in  our  governments  from  other  circumstances.  Its 
constitutional  powers  being  at  once  more  extensive, 
and  less  susceptible  of  precise  limits,  it  can,  with  the 


The  Federalist  27 

greater  facility,  mask,  under  complicated  and  in- 
direct measures,  the  encroachments  which  it  makes 
on  the  coordinate  departments.  It  is  not  unfre- 
quently  a  question  of  real  nicety  in  legislative  bodies, 
whether  the  operation  of  a  particular  measure  will, 
or  will  not,  extend  beyond  the  legislative  sphere. 
On  the  other  side,  the  executive  power  being  re- 
strained within  a  narrower  compass,  and  being  more 
simple  in  its  nature,  and  the  judiciary  being  described 
by  landmarks  still  less  uncertain,  projects  of  usurpa- 
tion by  either  of  these  departments  would  immedi- 
ately betray  and  defeat  themselves.  Nor  is  this  all: 
as  the  legislative  department  alone  has  access  to  the 
pockets  of  the  people,  and  has  in  some  constitutions 
full  discretion,  and  in  all  a  prevailing  influence,  over 
the  pecuniary  rewards  of  those  who  fill  the  other 
departments,  a  dependence  is  thus  created  in  the 
latter,  which  gives  still  greater  facility  to  encroach- 
ments of  the  former. 

I  have  appealed  to  our  own  experience  for  the 
truth  of  what  I  advance  on  this  subject.  Were  it 
necessary  to  verify  this  experience  by  particular 
proofs,  they  might  be  multiplied  without  end.  I 
might  find  a  witness  in  every  citizen  who  has  shared 
in,  or  been  attentive  to,  the  course  of  public  ad- 
ministrations. I  might  collect  vouchers  in  abund- 
ance from  the  records  and  archives  of  every  State  in 
the  Union.  But  as  a  more  concise,  and  at  the  same 
time  equally  satisfactory,  evidence,  I  will  refer  to 
the  example  of  two  States,  attested  by  two  unex- 
ceptionable authorities. 

The  first  example  is  that  of   Virginia,   a  State 


28  Alexander  Hamilton 

which,  as  we  have  seen,  has  expressly  declared  in  its 
constitution,  that  the  three  great  departments  ought 
not  to  be  intermixed.  The  authority  in  support  of 
it  is  Mr.  Jefferson,  who,  besides  his  other  advantages 
for  remarking  the  operation  of  the  government,  was 
himself  the  chief  magistrate  of  it.  In  order  to  con- 
vey fully  the  ideas  with  which  his  experience  had 
impressed  him  on  this  subject,  it  will  be  necessary  to 
quote  a  passage  of  some  length  from  his  very  inter- 
esting Notes  on  the  State  of  Virginia,  p.  195.  ''All 
the  powers  of  government,  legislative,  executive,  and 
judiciary,  result  to  the  legislative  body.  The  con- 
centrating these  in  the  same  hands,  is  precisely  the 
definition  of  despotic  government.  It  will  be  no 
alleviation,  that  these  powers  will  be  exercised  by  a 
plurality  of  hands,  and  not  by  a  single  one.  One 
hundred  and  seventy-three  despots  would  surely  be 
as  oppressive  as  one.  Let  those  who  doubt  it,  turn 
their  eyes  on  the  republic  of  Venice.  As  little  will 
it  avail  us,  that  they  are  chosen  by  ourselves.  An 
elective  despotism  was  not  the  government  we  fought 
for;  but  one  which  should  not  only  be  founded  on 
free  principles,  but  in  which  the  powers  of  govern- 
ment should  be  so  divided  and  balanced  among 
several  bodies  of  magistracy,  as  that  no  one  could 
transcend  their  legal  limits,  without  being  effectually 
checked  and  restrained  by  the  others.  For  this 
reason,  that  convention  which  passed  the  ordinance 
of  government,  laid  its  foundation  on  this  basis,  that 
the  legislative,  executive,  and  judiciary  departments 
should  be  separate  and  distinct,  so  that  no  person 
should  exercise  the  powers  of  more  than  one  of  them 


The  Federalist  29 

at  the  same  time.  But  no  barrier  was  provided  be- 
tween these  several  powers.  The  judiciary  and  the 
executive  members  were  left  dependent  on  the  legis- 
lative for  their  subsistence  in  office,  and  some  of 
them  for  their  continuance  in  it.  If,  therefore,  the 
legislature  assumes  executive  and  judiciary  powers, 
no  opposition  is  likely  to  be  made ;  nor,  if  made,  can 
be  effectual ;  because  in  that  case  they  may  put  their 
proceedings  into  the  form  of  acts  of  Assembly,  which 
will  render  them  obligatory  on  the  other  branches. 
They  have  accordingly,  in  many  instances,  decided 
rights  which  should  have  been  left  to  judiciary  con- 
troversy,  and  the  direction  of  the  executive,  during  the 
whole  time  of  their  session,  is  becoming  habitual  and 
familiar.'' 

The  other  State  which  I  shall  take  for  an  example 
is  Pennsylvania ;  and  the  other  authority,  the  Coun- 
cil of  Censors,  which  assembled  in  the  years  1783  and 
1784.  A  part  of  the  duty  of  this  body,  as  marked  out 
by  the  constitution,  was  ''to  inquire  whether  the 
constitution  had  been  preserved  inviolate  in  every 
part;  and  whether  the  legislative  and  executive 
branches  of  government  had  performed  their  duty  as 
guardians  of  the  people,  or  assumed  to  themselves, 
or  exercised,  other  or  greater  powers  than  they  are 
entitled  to  by  the  constitution.*'  In  the  execution 
of  this  trust,  the  council  were  necessarily  led  to  a 
comparison  of  both  the  legislative  and  executive  pro- 
ceedings, with  the  constitutional  powers  of  these 
departments;  and  from  the  facts  enumerated,  and 
to  the  truth  of  most  of  which  both  sides  in  the 
council  subscribed,  it  appears  that  the  constitution 


30  Alexander  Hamilton 

had  been  flagrantly  violated  by  the  legislature  in  a 
variety  of  important  instances. 

A  great  number  of  laws  had  been  passed,  violating, 
without  any  apparent  necessity,  the  rule  requiring 
that  all  bills  of  a  public  nature  shall  be  previously 
printed  for  the  consideration  of  the  people ;  although 
this  is  one  of  the  precautions  chiefly  relied  on  by  the 
constitution  against  improper  acts  of  the  legislature. 

The  constitutional  trial  by  jury  had  been  violated, 
and  powers  assumed  which  had  not  been  delegated 
by  the  constitution. 

Executive  powers  had  been  usurped. 

The  salaries  of  the  judges,  which  the  constitution 
expressly  requires  to  be  fixed,  had  been  occasionally 
varied ;  and  cases  belonging  to  the  judiciary  depart- 
ment frequently  drawn  within  legislative  cognizance 
and  determination. 

Those  who  wish  to  see  the  several  particulars  fall- 
ing under  each  of  these  heads,  may  consult  the 
journals  of  the  council,  which  are  in  print.  Some  of 
them,  it  will  be  found,  may  be  imputable  to  peculiar 
circumstances  connected  with  the  war;  but  the 
greater  part  of  them  may  be  considered  as  the 
spontaneous  shoots  of  an  ill-constituted  government. 

It  appears,  also,  that  the  executive  department  had 
not  been  innocent  of  frequent  breaches  of  the  con- 
stitution. There  are  three  observations,  however, 
which  ought  to  be  made  on  this  head :  first,  a  great 
proportion  of  the  instances  were  either  immediately 
produced  by  the  necessities  of  the  war,  or  recom- 
mended by  Congress  or  the  commander-in-chief; 
secondly,  in  most  of  the  other  instances,  they  con- 


The  Federalist  31 

formed  either  to  the  declared  or  the  known  senti- 
ments of  the  legislative  department;  thirdly ^  the 
executive  department  of  Pennsylvania  is  distin- 
guished from  that  of  the  other  States  by  the 
number  of  members  composing  it.  In  this  respect, 
it  has  as  much  affinity  to  a  legislative  assembly  as  to 
an  executive  council.  And  being  at  once  exempt 
from  the  restraint  of  an  individual  responsibility  for 
the  acts  of  the  body,  and  deriving  confidence  from 
mutual  example  and  joint  influence,  unauthorized 
measures  would,  of  course,  be  more  freely  hazarded, 
than  where  the  executive  department  is  administered 
by  a  single  hand,  or  by  a  few  hands. 

The  conclusion  which  I  am  warranted  in  drawing 
from  these  observations  is,  that  a  mere  demarcation 
on  parchment  of  the  constitutional  limits  of  the 
several  departments,  is  not  a  sufficient  guard  against 
thoce  encroachments  which  lead  to  a  tyrannical  con- 
centration of  all  the  powers  of  government  in  the 
same  hands.  Publius. 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Tuesday,  February  5,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  XLIX 

(HAMILTON    OR    MADISON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

The  author  of  the  Notes  on  the  State  of  Virginia, 
quoted  in  the  last  paper,  has  subjoined  to  that 
valuable  work  the  draught  of  a  constitution,  which 
had  been  prepared  in  order  to  be  laid  before  a 
convention  expected  to  be  called  in    1783,  by  the 


32  Alexander  Hamilton 

legislature,  for  the  establishment  of  a  constitution  for 
that  commonwealth.  The  plan,  like  every  thing  from 
the  same  pen,  marks  a  turn  of  thinking,  original 
comprehensive,  and  accurate;  and  is  the  more 
worthy  of  attention  as  it  equally  displays  a  fervent 
attachment  to  republican  government  and  an  en- 
lightened view  of  the  dangerous  propensities  against 
which  it  ought  to  be  guarded.  One  of  the  precau- 
tions which  he  proposes,  and  on  which  he  appears 
ultimately  to  rely  as  a  palladium  to  the  weaker 
departments  of  power  against  the  invasions  of  the 
stronger,  is  perhaps  altogether  his  own,  and  as  it 
immediately  relates  to  the  subject  of  our  present 
inquiry,  ought  not  to  be  overlooked. 

His  proposition  is,  '*  that  whenever  any  two  of  the 
three  branches  of  government  shall  concur  in  opinion, 
each  by  the  voices  of  two  thirds  of  their  whole  num- 
ber, that  a  convention  is  necessary  for  altering  the 
constitution,  or  correcting  breaches  of  it,  a  convention 
shall  be  called  for  the  purpose." 

As  the  people  are  the  only  legitimate  fountain  of 
power,  and  it  is  from  them  that  the  constitutional 
charter,  under  which  the  several  branches  of  govern- 
ment hold  their  power,  is  derived,  it  seems  strictly 
consonant  to  the  republican  theory,  to  recur  to  the 
same  original  authority,  not  only  whenever  it  may 
be  necessary  to  enlarge,  diminish,  or  new- model  the 
powers  of  the  government,  but  also  whenever  any 
one  of  the  departments  may  commit  encroachments 
on  the  chartered  authorities  of  the  others.  The 
several  departments  being  perfectly  coordinate  by 
the  terms  of  their  common  commission,  none  of  them, 


The  Federalist  33 

it  is  evident,  can  pretend  to  an  exclusive  or  superior 
right  of  settling  the  boundaries  between  their  re- 
spective powers;  and  how  are  the  encroachments  of 
the  stronger  to  be  prevented,  or  the  wrongs  of  the 
weaker  to  be  redressed,  without  an  appeal  to  the 
people  themselves,  who,  as  the  grantors  of  the  com- 
mission, can  alone  declare  its  true  meaning,  and 
enforce  its  observance? 

There  is  certainly  great  force  in  this  reasoning, 
and  it  must  be  allowed  to  prove  that  a  constitutional 
road  to  the  decision  of  the  people  ought  to  be  marked 
out  and  kept  open,  for  certain  great  and  extra- 
ordinary occasions.  But  there  appear  to  be  in- 
superable objections  against  the  proposed  recurrence 
to  the  people,  as  a  provision  in  all  cases  for  keeping 
the  several  departments  of  power  within  their  con- 
stitutional limits. 

In  the  first  place,  the  provision  does  not  reach  the 
case  of  a  combination  of  two  of  the  departments 
against  the  third.  If  the  legislative  authority,  which 
possesses  so  many  means  of  operating  on  the  motives 
of  the  other  departments,  should  be  able  to  gain  to  its 
interest  either  of  the  others,  or  even  one  third  of  its 
members,  the  remaining  department  could  derive 
no  advantage  from  its  remedial  provision.  I  do  not 
dwell,  however,  on  this  objection,  because  it  may  be 
thought  to  be  rather  against  the  modification  of  the 
principle,  than  against  the  principle  itself. 

In  the  next  place,  it  may  be  considered  as  an 
objection  inherent  in  the  principle,  that  as  every 
appeal  to  the  people  would  cany  an  implication  of 
some  defect  in  the  government,  frequent  appeals 


VOL.  XII. 


34  Alexander  Hamilton 

would,  in  a  great  measure,  deprive  the  government 
of  that  veneration  which  time  bestows  on  every 
thing,  and  without  which  perhaps  the  wisest  and 
freest  governments  would  not  possess  the  requisite 
stability.  If  it  be  true  that  all  governments  rest  on 
opinion,  it  is  no  less  true  that  the  strength  of  opinion 
in  each  individual,  and  its  practical  influence  on  his 
conduct,  depend  much  on  the  number  which  he  sup- 
poses to  have  entertained  the  same  opinion.  The 
reason  of  man,  like  man  himself,  is  timid  and  cautious 
when  left  alone,  and  acquires  firmness  and  confidence 
in  proportion  to  the  number  with  which  it  is  asso- 
ciated. When  the  examples  which  fortify  opinion 
are  ancient  as  well  as  numerous,  they  are  known  to 
have  a  double  effect.  In  a  nation  of  philosophers^ 
this  consideration  ought  to  be  disregarded.  A 
reverence  for  the  laws  would  be  sufficiently  incul- 
cated by  the  voice  of  an  enlightened  reason.  But  a 
nation  of  philosophers  is  as  little  to  be  expected  as 
the  philosophical  race  of  kings  wished  for  by  Plato. 
And  in  every  other  nation,  the  most  rational  govern- 
ment will  not  find  it  a  superfluous  advantage  to  have 
the  prejudices  of  the  community  on  its  side. 

The  danger  of  disturbing  the  public  tranquillity  by 
interesting  too  strongly  the  public  passions,  is  a  still 
more  serious  objection  against  a  frequent  reference 
of  constitutional  questions  to  the  decision  of  the 
whole  society.  Notwithstanding  the  success  which 
has  attended  the  revisions  of  our  established  forms 
of  government,  and  which  does  so  much  honor  to  the 
virtue  and  intelligence  of  the  people  of  America,  it 
must  be  confessed  that  the  experiments  are  of  too 


The  Federalist  35 

ticklish  a  nature  to  be  unnecessarily  multiplied.  We 
are  to  recollect  that  all  the  existing  constitutions 
were  formed  in  the  midst  of  a  danger  which  repressed 
the  passions  most  unfriendly  to  order  and  concord; 
of  an  enthusiastic  confidence  of  the  people  in  their 
patriotic  leaders,  which  stifled  the  ordinary  diversity 
of  opinions  on  great  national  questions;  of  a  uni- 
versal ardor  for  new  and  opposite  forms,  produced  by 
a  universal  resentment  and  indignation  against  the 
ancient  government;  and  whilst  no  spirit  of  party 
connected  with  the  changes  to  be  made,  or  the  abuses 
to  be  reformed,  could  mingle  its  leaven  in  the  opera- 
tion. The  future  situations  in  which  we  must  expect 
to  be  usually  placed,  do  not  present  any  equivalent 
security  against  the  danger  which  is  apprehended. 

But  the  greatest  objection  of  all  is,  that  the  de- 
cisions which  would  probably  result  from  such  ap- 
peals would  not  answer  the  purpose  of  maintaining 
the  constitutional  equilibrium  of  the  government. 
We  have  seen  that  the  tendency  of  republican 
governments  is  to  an  aggrandizement  of  the  legisla- 
tive at  the  expense  of  the  other  departments.  The 
appeals  to  the  people,  therefore,  would  usually  be 
made  by  the  executive  and  judiciary  departments. 
But  whether  made  by  one  side  or  the  other,  would 
each  side  enjoy  equal  advantages  on  the  trial?  Let 
us  view  their  different  situations.  The  members  of 
the  executive  and  judiciary  departments  are  few  in 
number,  and  can  be  personally  known  to  a  small  part 
only  of  the  people.  The  latter,  by  the  mode  of  their 
appointment,  as  well  as  by  the  nature  and  per- 
manency of  it,  are  too  far  removed  from  the  people 


3^  Alexander  Hamilton 

to  share  much  in  their  prepossessions.  The  former 
are  generally  the  objects  of  jealousy,  and  their  ad- 
ministration is  always  liable  to  be  discolored  and 
rendered  unpopular.  The  members  of  the  legislative 
department,  on  the  other  hand,  are  numerous. 
They  are  distributed  and  dwell  among  the  people 
at  large.  Their  connections  of  blood,  of  friendship, 
and  of  acquaintance  embrace  a  great  proportion  of 
the  most  influential  part  of  the  society.  The  nature 
of  their  public  trust  implies  a  personal  influence 
among  the  people,  and  that  they  are  more  im- 
mediately the  confidential  guardians  of  the  rights 
and  liberties  of  the  people.  With  these  advantages, 
it  can  hardly  be  supposed  that  the  adverse  party 
would  have  an  equal  chance  for  a  favorable  issue. 

But  the  legislative  party  would  not  only  be  able  to 
plead  their  cause  most  successfully  with  the  people. 
They  would  probably  be  constituted  themselves  the 
judges.  The  same  influence  which  had  gained  them 
an  election  into  the  legislature,  would  gain  them  a 
seat  in  the  convention.  If  this  should  not  be  the 
case  with  all,  it  would  probably  be  the  case  with 
many,  and  pretty  certainly  with  those  leading  charac- 
ters, on  whom  every  thing  depends  in  such  bodies. 
The  convention,  in  short,  would  be  composed  chiefly 
of  men  who  had  been,  who  actually  were,  or  who 
expected  to  be,  members  of  the  department  whose 
conduct  was  arraigned.  They  would  consequently 
be  parties  to  the  very  question  to  be  decided  by 
them. 

It  might,  however,  sometimes  happen,  that  ap- 
peals would  be  made  under  circumstances  less  ad- 


The  Federalist  37 

verse  to  the  executive  and  judiciary  departments. 
The  usurpations  of  the  legislature  might  be  so 
flagrant  and  so  sudden,  as  to  admit  of  no  specious 
coloring.  A  strong  party  among  themselves  might 
take  side  with  the  other  branches.  The  executive 
power  might  be  in  the  hands  of  a  peculiar  favorite  of 
the  people.  In  such  a  posture  of  things,  the  public 
decision  might  be  less  swayed  by  prepossessions 
in  favor  of  the  legislative  party.  But  still  it  could 
never  be  expected  to  turn  on  the  true  merits  of  the 
question.  It  would  inevitably  be  connected  with 
the  spirit  of  preexisting  parties,  or  of  parties  springing 
out  of  the  question  itself.  It  would  be  connected 
with  persons  of  distinguished  character  and  extensive 
influence  in  the  community.  It  would  be  pro- 
nounced by  the  very  men  who  had  been  agents  in,  or 
opponents  of,  the  measures  to  which  the  decision 
would  relate.  The  passions,  therefore,  not  the 
reason,  of  the  public  would  sit  in  judgment.  But  it 
is  the  reason,  alone,  of  the  public,  that  ought  to 
control  and  regulate  the  government.  The  passions 
ought  to  be  controlled  and  regulated  by  the  govern- 
ment. 

We  found  in  the  last  paper,  that  mere  declarations 
in  the  written  constitution  are  not  sufficient  to  re- 
strain the  several  departments  within  their  legal 
rights.  It  appears  in  this,  that  occasional  appeals 
to  the  people  would  be  neither  a  proper  nor  an 
effectual  provision  for  that  purpose.  How  far  the 
provisions  of  a  different  nature  contained  in  the  plan 
above  quoted  might  be  adequate,  I  do  not  examine. 
Some  of  them  are  unquestionably  founded  on  sotmd 


3^  Alexander  Hamilton 

political  principles,  and  all  of  them  are  framed  with 
singular  ingenuity  and  precision. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Tuesday,  February  5,  1788 
WHE  FEDERALIST.     No.  L 

(HAMILTON    OR    MADISON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

It  may  be  contended,  perhaps,  that  instead  of 
occasional  appeals  to  the  people,  which  are  liable  to 
the  objections  urged  against  them,  periodical  appeals 
are  the  proper  and  adequate  means  of  preventing  and 
correcting  infractions  of  the  Constitution. 

It  will  be  attended  to,  that  in  the  examination  of 
these  expedients,  I  confine  myself  to  their  aptitude 
for  enforcing  the  Constitution,  by  keeping  the  several 
departments  of  power  within  their  due  bounds,  with- 
out particularly  considering  them  as  provisions  for 
altering  the  Constitution  itself.  In  the  first  view, 
appeals  to  the  people  at  fixed  periods  appear  to  be 
nearly  as  ineligible  as  appeals  on  particular  occa- 
sions as  they  emerge.  If  the  periods  be  separated  by 
short  intervals,  the  measures  to  be  reviewed  and 
rectified  will  have  been  of  recent  date,  and  will  be 
connected  with  all  the  circumstances  which  tend  to 
vitiate  and  pervert  the  result  of  occasional  revisions. 
If  the  periods  be  distant  from  each  other,  the  same 
remark  will  be  applicable  to  all  recent  measures ;  and 
in  proportion  as  the  remoteness  of  the  others  may 
favor  a  dispassionate  review  of  them,  this  advantage 
is  inseparable  from  inconveniences  which  seem  to 


The  Federalist  39 

counterbalance  it.  In  the  first  place,  a  distant  pros- 
pect of  public  censure  would  be  a  very  feeble  restraint 
on  power  from  those  excesses  to  which  it  might  be 
urged  by  the  force  of  present  motives.  Is  it  to  be 
imagined  that  a  legislative  assembly,  consisting  of  a 
hundred  or  two  hundred  members,  eagerly  bent  on 
some  favorite  object,  and  breaking  through  the  re- 
straints of  the  Constitution  in  pursuit  of  it,  would 
be  arrested  in  their  career,  by  considerations  drawn 
from  a  censorial  revision  of  their  conduct  at  the 
future  distance  of  ten,  fifteen,  or  twenty  years?  In 
the  next  place,  the  abuses  would  often  have  com- 
pleted their  mischievous  effects  before  the  remedial 
provision  would  be  applied.  And  in  the  last  place, 
where  this  might  not  be  the  case,  they  would  be  of 
long  standing,  would  have  taken  deep  root,  and 
would  not  easily  be  extirpated. 

The  scheme  of  revising  the  constitution,  in  order 
to  correct  recent  breaches  of  it,  as  well  as  for  other 
purposes,  has  been  actually  tried  in  one  of  the  States. 
One  of  the  objects  of  the  Council  of  Censors  which  met 
in  Pennsylvania  in  1783  and  1784,  was,  as  we  have 
seen,  to  inquire,  ''  whether  the  constitution  had  been 
violated,  and  whether  the  legislative  and  executive 
departments  had  encroached  on  each  other."  This 
important  and  novel  experiment  in  politics  merits,  in 
several  points  of  view,  very  particular  attention.  In 
some  of  them  it  may,  perhaps,  as  a  single  experiment, 
made  under  circumstances  somewhat  pectiliar,  be 
thought  to  be  not  absolutely  conclusive.  But  as 
applied  to  the  case  under  consideration,  it  involves 
some  facts,  which  I  venture  to  remark,  as  a  complete 


40  Alexander  Hamilton 

and  satisfactory  illustration  of  the  reasoning  which 
I  have  employed. 

First.  It  appears,  from  the  names  of  the  gentle- 
men who  composed  the  council,  that  some,  at  least, 
of  its  most  active  and  leading  members  had  also  been 
active  and  leading  characters  in  the  parties  which 
preexisted  in  the  State. 

Secondly.  It  appears  that  the  same  active  and 
leading  members  of  the  council  had  been  active  and 
influential  members  of  the  legislative  and  executive 
branches,  within  the  period  to  be  reviewed;  and  even 
patrons  or  opponents  of  the  very  measures  to  be  thus 
brought  to  the  test  of  the  constitution.  Two  of  the 
members  had  been  vice-presidents  of  the  State,  and 
several  others  members  of  the  executive  council, 
within  the  seven  preceding  years.  One  of  them  had 
been  speaker,  and  a  number  of  others  distinguished 
members,  of  the  legislative  assembly  within  the  same 
period. 

Thirdly,  Every  page  of  their  proceedings  wit- 
nesses the  effect  of  all  these  circumstances  on  the 
temper  of  their  deliberations.  Throughout  the  con- 
tinuance of  the  council,  it  was  split  into  two  fixed 
and  violent  parties.  The  fact  is  acknowledged  and 
lamented  by  themselves.  Had  this  not  been  the 
case,  the  face  of  their  proceedings  exhibits  a  proof 
equally  satisfactory.  In  all  questions,  however  un- 
important in  themselves,  or  unconnected  with  each 
other,  the  same  names  stand  invariably  contrasted  on 
the  opposite  columns.  Every  unbiased  observer  may 
infer,  without  danger  of  mistake,  and  at  the  same 
time  without  meaning  to  reflect  on  either  party,  or 


The  Federalist  41 

any  individuals  of  either  party,  that,  unfortunately, 
passion,  not  reason,  must  have  presided  over  their 
decisions.  When  men  exercise  their  reason  coolly 
and  freely  on  a  variety  of  distinct  questions,  they 
inevitably  fall  into  different  opinions  on  some  of  them. 
When  they  are  governed  by  a  common  passion,  their 
opinions,  if  they  are  so  to  be  called,  will  be  the  same. 

Fourthly.  It  is  at  least  problematical,  whether  the 
decisions  of  this  body  do  not,  in  several  instances, 
misconstrue  the  limits  prescribed  for  the  legislative 
and  executive  departments,  instead  of  reducing  and 
limiting  them  within  their  constitutional  places. 

Fifthly.  I  have  never  understood  that  the  de- 
cisions of  the  council  on  constitutional  questions, 
whether  rightly  or  erroneously  formed,  have  had  any 
effect  in  varying  the  practice  founded  on  legislative 
constructions.  It  even  appears,  if  I  mistake  not, 
that  in  one  instance  the  contemporary  legislature 
denied  the  constructions  of  the  council,  and  actually 
prevailed  in  the  contest. 

This  censorial  body,  therefore,  proves  at  the  same 
time,  by  its  researches,  the  existence  of  the  disease, 
and  by  its  example,  the  inefficacy  of  the  remedy. 

This  conclusion  cannot  be  invalidated  by  alleging 
that  the  State  in  which  the  experiment  was  made 
was  at  that  crisis,  and  had  been  for  a  long  time  before, 
violently  heated  and  distracted  by  the  rage  of  party. 
Is  it  to  be  presumed,  that  at  any  future  septennial 
epoch  the  same  State  will  be  free  from  parties?  Is  it 
to  be  presumed  that  any  other  State,  at  the  same  or 
any  other  given  period,  will  be  exempt  from  them? 
Such  an  event  ought  to  be  neither  presumed  nor 


42  Alexander  Hamilton 

desired ;  because  an  extinction  of  parties  necessarily 
implies  either  a  universal  alarm  for  the  public  safety, 
or  an  absolute  extinction  of  liberty. 

Were  the  precaution  taken  of  excluding  from  the 
assemblies  elected  by  the  people,  to  revise  the  pre- 
ceding administration  of  the  government,  all  persons 
who  should  have  been  concerned  with  the  govern- 
ment within  the  given  period,  the  difficulties  would 
not  be  obviated.  The  important  task  would  prob- 
ably devolve  on  men,  who,  with  inferior  capacities, 
would  in  other  respects  be  little  better  qualified. 
Although  they  might  not  have  been  personally  con- 
cerned in  the  administration,  and  therefore  not  im- 
mediately agents  in  the  measures  to  be  examined, 
they  would  probably  have  been  involved  in  the 
parties  connected  with  these  measures,  and  have  been 
elected  under  their  auspices, 

PUBLIUS. 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Friday,  February  8,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LI 

(HAMILTON    OR    MADISON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

To  what  expedient,  then,  shall  we  finally  resort,  for 
maintaining  in  practice  the  necessary  partition  of 
power  among  the  several  departments,  as  laid  down 
in  the  Constitution?  The  only  answer  that  can  be 
given  is,  that  as  all  these  exterior  provisions  are 
found  to  be  inadequate,  the  defect  must  be  supplied, 
by  so  contriving  the  interior  structure  of  the  govern- 


The  Federalist  43 

ment  as  that  its  several  constituent  parts  may,  by 
their  mutual  relations,  be  the  means  of  keeping  each 
other  in  their  proper  places.  Without  presuming  to 
undertake  a  full  development  of  this  important  idea, 
I  will  hazard  a  few  general  observations,  which  may 
perhaps  place  it  in  a  clearer  light,  and  enable  us  to 
form  a  more  correct  judgment  of  the  principles 
and  structure  of  the  government  planned  by  the 
convention. 

In  order  to  lay  a  due  foundation  for  that  separate 
and  distinct  exercise  of  the  different  powers  of  gov- 
ernment, which  to  a  certain  extent  is  admitted  on  all 
hands  to  be  essential  to  the  preservation  of  liberty,  it 
is  evident  that  each  department  should  have  a  will 
of  its  own ;  and  consequently  should  be  so  constituted 
that  the  members  of  each  should  have  as  little  agency 
as  possible  in  the  appointment  of  the  members  of  the 
others.  Were  this  principle  rigorously  adhered  to, 
it  would  require  that  all  the  appointments  for  the 
supreme  executive,  legislative,  and  judiciary  magis- 
tracies should  be  drawn  from  the  same  fountain  of 
authority,  the  people,  through  channels  having  no 
communication  whatever  with  one  another.  Per- 
haps such  a  plan  of  constructing  the  several  depart- 
ments would  be  less  difficult  in  practice  than  it  may 
in  contemplation  appear.  Some  difficulties,  how- 
ever, and  some  additional  expense  would  attend  the 
execution  of  it.  Some  deviations,  therefore,  from 
the  principle  must  be  admitted.  In  the  constitution 
of  the  judiciary  department  in  particular,  it  might  be 
inex-oedient  to  insist  rigorously  on  the  principle :  first, 
because  peculiar  qualifications  being  essential  in  the 


44  Alexander  Hamilton 

members,  the  primary  consideration  ought  to  be  to 
select  that  mode  of  choice  which  best  secures  these 
qualifications;  secondly,  because  the  permanent 
tenure  by  which  the  appointments  are  held  in  that 
department,  must  soon  destroy  all  sense  of  depend- 
ence on  the  authority  conferring  them. 

It  is  equally  evident,  that  the  members  of  each 
department  should  be  as  little  dependent  as  possible 
on  those  of  the  others,  for  the  emoluments  annexed 
to  their  offices.  Were  the  executive  magistrate,  or 
the  judges,  not  independent  of  the  legislature  in  this 
particular,  their  independence  in  every  other  would 
be  merely  nominal. 

But  the  great  security  against  a  gradual  concentra- 
tion of  the  several  powers  in  the  same  department, 
consists  in  giving  to  those  who  administer  each  de- 
partment the  necessary  constitutional  means  and 
personal  motives  to  resist  encroachments  of  the 
others.  The  provision  for  defence  must  in  this,  as  in 
all  other  cases,  be  made  commensurate  to  the  danger 
of  attack.  Ambition  must  be  made  to  counteract 
ambition.  The  interest  of  the  man  must  be  con- 
nected with  the  constitutional  rights  of  the  place. 
It  may  be  a  reflection  on  human  nature,  that  such 
devices  should  be  necessary  to  control  the  abuses  of 
government.  But  what  is  government  itself,  but  the 
greatest  of  all  reflections  on  human  nature?  If  men 
were  angels,  no  government  would  be  necessary.  If 
angels  were  to  govern  men,  neither  external  nor  in- 
ternal controls  on  government  would  be  necessary. 
In  framing  a  government  which  is  to  be  administered 
by  men  over  men,  the  great  difficulty  lies  in  this: 


The  Federalist  45 

you  must  first  enable  the  government  to  control  the 
governed;  and  in  the  next  place  oblige  it  to  control 
itself.  A  dependence  on  the  people  is,  no  doubt,  the 
primary  control  on  the  government;  but  experience 
has  taught  mankind  the  necessity  of  auxiliary 
precautions. 

This  policy  of  supplying,  by  opposite  and  rival 
interests,  the  defect  of  better  motives,  might  be 
traced  through  the  whole  system  of  human  affairs, 
private  as  well  as  public.  We  see  it  particularly 
displayed  in  all  the  subordinate  distributions  of 
power,  where  the  constant  aim  is  to  divide  and 
arrange  the  several  offices  in  such  a  manner  as  that 
each  may  be  a  check  on  the  other — that  the  private 
interest  of  every  individual  may  be  a  sentinel  over 
the  public  rights.  These  inventions  of  prudence 
cannot  be  less  requisite  in  the  distribution  of  the 
supreme  powers  of  the  State. 

But  it  is  not  possible  to  give  to  each  department 
an  equal  power  of  self-defence.  In  republican 
government,  the  legislative  authority  necessarily 
predominates.  The  remedy  for  this  inconveniency 
is  to  divide  the  legislature  into  different  branches; 
and  to  render  them,  by  different  modes  of  election 
and  different  principles  of  action,  as  little  connected 
with  each  other  as  the  nature  of  their  common  func- 
tions and  their  common  dependence  on  the  society 
will  admit.  It  may  even  be  necessary  to  guard 
against  dangerous  encroachments  by  still  further  pre- 
cautions. As  the  weight  of  the  legislative  authority 
requires  that  it  should  be  thus  divided,  the  weakness 
of  the  executive  may  require,  on  the  other  hand,  that 


46  Alexander  Hamilton 

it  should  be  fortified.  An  absolute  negative  on  the 
legislature  appears,  at  first  view,  to  be  the  natural 
defence  with  which  the  executive  magistrate  should 
be  armed.  But  perhaps  it  would  be  neither  alto- 
gether safe  nor  alone  sufficient.  On  ordinary  occa- 
sions it  might  not  be  exerted  with  the  requisite 
firmness,  and  on  extraordinary  occasions  it  might 
be  perfidiously  abused.  May  not  this  defect  of  an 
absolute  negative  be  supplied  by  some  qualified 
connection  between  this  weaker  department  and  the 
weaker  branch  of  the  stronger  department,  by  which 
the  latter  may  be  led  to  support  the  constitutional 
rights  of  the  former,  without  being  too  much  de- 
tached from  the  rights  of  its  own  department? 

If  the  principles  on  which  these  observations  are 
founded  be  just,  as  I  persuade  myself  they  are,  and 
they  be  applied  as  a  criterion  to  the  several  State 
constitutions,  and  to  the  federal  Constitution,  it  will 
be  found  that  if  the  latter  does  not  perfectly  corre- 
spond with  them,  the  former  are  infinitely  less  able 
to  bear  such  a  test. 

There  are,  moreover,  two  considerations  particu- 
larly applicable  to  the  federal  system  of  America, 
which  place  that  system  in  a  very  interesting  point 
of  view. 

First.  In  a  single  republic,  all  the  power  sur- 
rendered by  the  people,  is  submitted  to  the  admini- 
stration of  a  single  government ;  and  the  usurpations 
are  guarded  against  by  a  division  of  the  government 
into  distinct  and  separate  departments.  In  the 
compound  republic  of  America,  the  power  surrend- 
ered by  the  people  is   first  divided  between  two 


The  Federalist  47 

distinct  governments,  and  then  the  portion  allotted 
to  each  subdivided  among  distinct  and  separate 
departments.  Hence  a  double  security  arises  to  the 
rights  of  the  people.  The  different  governments 
will  control  each  other,  at  the  same  time  that  each 
will  be  controlled  by  itself. 

Second.  It  is  of  great  importance  in  a  republic  not 
only  to  guard  the  society  against  the  oppression  of 
its  rulers,  but  to  guard  one  part  of  the  society  against 
the  injustice  of  the  other  part.  Different  interests 
necessarily  exist  in  different  classes  of  citizens.  If  a 
majority  be  united  by  a  common  interest,  the  rights 
of  the  minority  will  be  insecure.  There  are  but  two 
methods  of  providing  against  this  evil:  the  one  by 
creating  a  will  in  the  community  independent  of  the 
majority — that  is,  of  the  society  itself;  the  other,  by 
comprehending  in  the  society  so  many  separate  de- 
scriptions of  citizens  as  will  render  an  unjust  com- 
bination of  a  majority  of  the  whole  very  improbable, 
if  not  impracticable.  The  first  method  prevails  in 
all  governments  possessing  an  hereditary  or  self- 
appointed  authority.  This,  at  best,  is  but  a  pre- 
carious security ;  because  a  power  independent  of  the 
society  may  as  well  espouse  the  unjust  views  of  the 
major,  as  the  rightful  interests  of  the  minor  party, 
and  may  possibly  be  turned  against  both  parties. 
The  second  method  will  be  exemplified  in  the  federal 
republic  of  the  United  States.  Whilst  all  authority 
in  it  will  be  derived  from  and  dependent  on  the 
society,  the  society  itself  will  be  broken  into  so  many 
parts,  interests,  and  classes  of  citizens,  that  the  rights 
of  individuals,  or  of  the  minority,  will  be  in  little 


48  Alexander  Hamilton 

danger  from  interested  combinations  of  the  majority. 
In  a  free  government  the  security  for  civil  rights 
must  be  the  same  as  that  for  religious  rights.  It 
consists  in  the  one  case  in  the  multiplicity  of  interests, 
and  in  the  other  in  the  multiplicity  of  sects.  The 
degree  of  security  in  both  cases  will  depend  on  the 
number  of  interests  and  sects ;  and  this  may  be  pre- 
sumed to  depend  on  the  extent  of  country  and  num- 
ber of  people  comprehended  under  the  same  govern- 
ment. This  view  of  the  subject  must  particularly 
recommend  a  proper  federal  system  to  all  the  sincere 
and  considerate  friends  of  republican  government, 
since  it  shows  that  in  exact  proportion  as  the  territory 
of  the  Union  may  be  formed  into  more  circumscribed 
Confederacies,  or  States,  oppressive  combinations  of 
a  majority  will  be  facilitated;  the  best  security, 
under  the  republican  forms,  for  the  rights  of  every 
class  of  citizens,  will  be  diminished;  and  conse- 
quently the  stability  and  independence  of  some  mem- 
ber of  the  government,  the  only  other  security,  must 
be  proportionately  increased.  Justice  is  the  end  of 
government.  It  is  the  end  of  civil  society.  It  ever 
has  been  and  ever  will  be  pursued  until  it  be  obtained, 
or  until  liberty  be  lost  in  the  pursuit.  In  a  society 
under  the  forms  of  which  the  stronger  faction  can 
readily  unite  and  oppress  the  weaker,  anarchy  may 
as  truly  be  said  to  reign  as  in  a  state  of  nature,  where 
the  weaker  individual  is  not  secured  against  the 
violence  of  the  stronger;  and  as,  in  the  latter  state, 
even  the  stronger  individuals  are  prompted,  by  the 
uncertainty  of  their  condition,  to  submit  to  a  govern- 
ment which  may  protect  the  weak  as  well  as  them- 


The  Federalist  49 

selves;  so,  in  the  former  state,  will  the  more  powerful 
factions  or  parties  be  gradually  induced,  by  a  like 
motive,  to  wish  for  a  government  which  will  protect 
all  parties,  the  weaker  as  well  as  the  more  powerful. 
It  can  be  little  doubted  that  if  the  State  of  Rhode 
Island  was  separated  from  the  Confederacy  and  left 
to  itself,  the  insecurity  of  rights  under  the  popular 
form  of  government  within  such  narrow  limits  would 
be  displayed  by  such  reiterated  oppressions  of  fac- 
tious majorities  that  some  power  altogether  inde- 
pendent of  the  people  would  soon  be  called  for  by  the 
voice  of  the  very  factions  whose  misrule  had  proved 
the  necessity  of  it.  In  the  extended  republic  of  the 
United  States,  and  among  the  great  variety  of  in- 
terests, parties,  and  sects  which  it  embraces,  a 
coalition  of  a  majority  of  the  whole  society  could 
seldom  take  place  on  any  other  principles  than  those 
of  justice  and  the  general  good;  whilst  there  being 
thus  less  danger  to  a  minor  from  the  will  of  a  major 
party,  there  must  be  less  pretext,  also,  to  provide  for 
the  security  of  the  former,  by  introducing  into  the 
government  a  will  not  dependent  on  the  latter,  or,  in 
other  words,  a  will  independent  of  the  society  itself. 
It  is  no  less  certain  than  it  is  important,  notwith- 
standing the  contrary  opinions  which  have  been  en- 
tertained, that  the  larger  the  society,  provided  it  lie 
within  a  practical  sphere,  the  more  duly  capable  it 
will  be  of  self-government.  And  happily  for  the  re- 
publican cause,  the  practicable  sphere  may  be  carried 
to  a  very  great  extent,  by  a  judicious  modification 
and  mixture  of  the  federal  principle. 

PUBLIUS. 

VOL.  XII. — 4. 


50  Alexander  Hamilton 

From  the  New  York  Packet,  Friday,  February  8,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LII 

(HAMILTON    OR    MADISON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

From  the  more  general  inquiries  pursued  in  the 
four  last  papers,  I  pass  on  to  a  more  particular 
examination  of  the  several  parts  of  the  government. 
I  shall  begin  with  the  House  of  Representatives. 

The  first  view  to  be  taken  of  this  part  of  the 
government  relates  to  the  qualifications  of  the 
electors  and  the  elected. 

Those  of  the  former  are  to  be  the  same  with  those 
of  the  electors  of  the  most  numerous  branch  of  the 
State  legislatures.  The  definition  of  the  right  of 
suffrage  is  very  justly  regarded  as  a  fundamental 
article  of  republican  government.  It  was  incumbent 
on  the  convention,  therefore,  to  define  and  establish 
this  right  in  the  Constitution.  To  have  left  it  open 
for  the  occasional  regulation  of  the  Congress,  would 
have  been  improper  for  the  reason  just  mentioned. 
To  have  submitted  it  to  the  legislative  discretion  of 
the  States,  would  have  been  improper  for  the  same 
reason;  and  for  the  additional  reason  that  it  would 
have  rendered  too  dependent  on  the  State  govern- 
ments that  branch  of  the  federal  government  which 
ought  to  be  dependent  on  the  people  alone.  To  have 
reduced  the  different  qualifications  in  the  different 
States  to  one  uniform  rule,  would  probably  have 
been  as  dissatisfactory  to  some  of  the  States  as  it 
would  have  been  difficult  to  the  convention.  The 
provision  made  by  the  convention  appears,  therefore, 


The  Federalist  51 

to  be  the  best  that  lay  within  their  option.  It  must 
be  satisfactory  to  every  State,  because  it  is  conform- 
able to  the  standard  already  established,  or  which 
may  be  established,  by  the  State  itself.  It  will  be 
safe  to  the  United  States,  because,  being  fixed  by  the 
State  constitutions,  it  is  not  alterable  by  the  State 
governments,  and  it  cannot  be  feared  that  the  people 
of  the  States  will  alter  this  part  of  their  constitutions 
in  such  a  manner  as  to  abridge  the  rights  secured  to 
them  by  the  federal  Constitution. 

The  qualifications  of  the  elected,  being  less  care- 
fully and  properly  defined  by  the  State  constitutions, 
and  being  at  the  same  time  more  susceptible  of  uni- 
formity, have  been  very  properly  considered  and 
regulated  by  the  convention.  A  representative  of 
the  United  States  must  be  of  the  age  of  twenty-five 
years ;  must  have  been  seven  years  a  citizen  of  the 
United  States;  must,  at  the  time  of  his  election,  be 
an  inhabitant  of  the  State  he  is  to  represent;  and, 
during  the  time  of  his  service,  must  be  in  no  office 
under  the  United  States.  Under  these  reasonable 
limitations,  the  door  of  this  part  of  the  federal  gov- 
ernment is  open  to  merit  of  every  description 
whether  native  or  adoptive,  whether  young  or  old, 
and  without  regard  to  poverty  or  wealth,  or  to  any 
particular  profession  of  religious  faith. 

The  term  for  which  the  representatives  are  to  be 
elected  falls  under  a  second  view  which  may  be  taken 
of  this  branch.  In  order  to  decide  on  the  propriety 
of  this  article,  two  questions  must  be  considered: 
first,  whether  biennial  elections  will,  in  this  case,  be 
safe;  secondly,  whether  they  be  necessary  or  useful. 


52  Alexander  Hamilton 

First.  As  it  is  essential  to  liberty  that  the  gov- 
ernment in  general  shotild  have  a  common  interest 
with  the  people,  so  it  is  particularly  essential  that 
the  branch  of  it  under  consideration  should  have 
an  immediate  dependence  on,  and  an  intimate 
sympathy  with,  the  people.  Frequent  elections  are 
imquestionably  the  only  policy  by  which  this  depend- 
ence and  sympathy  can  be  effectually  secured.  But 
what  particular  degree  of  frequency  may  be  abso- 
lutely necessary  for  the  purpose,  does  not  appear  to 
be  susceptible  of  any  precise  calculation,  and  must 
depend  on  a  variety  of  circumstances  with  which  it 
may  be  connected.  Let  us  consult  experience,  the 
guide  that  ought  always  to  be  followed  whenever  it 
can  be  found. 

The  scheme  of  representation,  as  a  substitute  for 
a  meeting  of  the  citizens  in  person,  being  at  most 
but  very  imperfectly  known  to  ancient  polity,  it  is  in 
more  modem  times  only  that  we  are  to  expect  in- 
structive examples.  And  even  here,  in  order  to 
avoid  a  research  too  vague  and  diffusive,  it  will  be 
proper  to  confine  ourselves  to  the  few  examples 
which  are  best  known,  and  which  bear  the  greatest 
analogy  to  our  particular  case.  The  first  to  which 
this  character  ought  to  be  applied,  is  the  House  of 
Commons  in  Great  Britain.  The  history  of  this 
branch  of  the  English  Constitution,  anterior  to  the 
date  of  Magna  Charta,  is  too  obscure  to  yield  in- 
struction. The  very  existence  of  it  has  been  made  a 
question  among  political  antiquaries.  The  earliest 
records  of  subsequent  date  prove  that  parliaments 
were  to  sit  only  every  year ;  not  that  they  were  to  be 


The  Federalist  53 

elected  every  year.  And  even  these  annual  sessions 
were  left  so  much  at  the  discretion  of  the  monarch, 
that,  under  various  pretexts,  very  long  and  danger- 
ous intermissions  were  often  contrived  by  royal  am- 
bition. To  remedy  this  grievance,  it  was  provided 
by  a  statute  in  the  reign  of  Charles  II.,  that  the 
intermissions  should  not  be  protracted  beyond  a 
period  of  three  years.  On  the  accession  of  William 
III.,  when  a  revolution  took  place  in  the  govern- 
ment, the  subject  was  still  more  seriously  resumed, 
and  it  was  declared  to  be  among  the  fundamental 
rights  of  the  people,  that  parliaments  ought  to  be 
held  frequently.  By  another  statute,  which  passed 
a  few  years  later  in  the  same  reign,  the  term  ''fre- 
quently," which  had  alluded  to  the  triennial  period 
settled  in  the  time  of  Charles  II.,  is  reduced  to  a 
precise  meaning,  it  being  expressly  enacted  that  a 
new  parliament  shall  be  called  within  three  years 
after  the  termination  of  the  former.  The  last 
change,  from  three  to  seven  years,  is  well  known  to 
have  been  introduced  pretty  early  in  the  present 
century,  under  an  alarm  for  the  Hanoverian  succes- 
sion. From  these  facts  it  appears  that  the  greatest 
frequency  of  elections  which  has  been  deemed  neces- 
sary in  that  kingdom,  for  binding  the  representatives 
to  their  constituents,  does  iiot  exceed  a  triennial 
return  of  them.  And  if  we  may  argue  from  the 
degree  of  liberty  retained  even  under  septennial 
elections,  and  all  the  other  vicious  ingredients 
in  the  parliamentary  constitution,  we  cannot  doubt 
that  a  reduction  of  the  period  from  seven  to 
three  years,  with  the  other  necessary  reforms,  would 


54  Alexander  Hamilton 

so  far  extend  the  influence  of  the  people  over 
their  representatives  as  to  satisfy  us  that  bi- 
ennial elections,  under  the  federal  system,  cannot 
possibly  be  dangerous  to  the  requisite  dependence 
of  the  House  of  Representatives  on  their  constitu- 
ents. 

Elections  in  Ireland,  till  of  late,  were  regulated 
entirely  by  the  discretion  of  the  crown,  and  were 
seldom  repeated,  except  on  the  accession  of  a  new 
prince,  or  some  other  contingent  event.  The  parlia- 
ment which  commenced  with  George  II.  was  con- 
tinued throughout  his  whole  reign,  a  period  of  about 
thirty-five  years.  The  only  dependence  of  the  re- 
presentatives on  the  people  consisted  in  the  right  of 
the  latter  to  supply  occasional  vacancies,  by  the 
election  of  new  members,  and  in  the  chance  of  some 
event  which  might  produce  a  general  new  election. 
The  ability  also  of  the  Irish  parliament  to  maintain 
the  rights  of  their  constituents,  so  far  as  the  disposi- 
tion might  exist,  was  extremely  shackled  by  the 
control  of  the  crown  over  the  subjects  of  their  delib- 
eration. Of  late,  these  shackles,  if  I  mistake  not, 
have  been  broken ;  and  octennial  parliaments  have 
besides  been  established.  What  effect  may  be  pro- 
duced by  this  partial  reform,  must  be  left  to  further 
experience.  The  example  of  Ireland,  from  this  view 
of  it,  can  throw  but  little  light  on  the  subject.  As 
far  as  we  can  draw  any  conclusion  from  it,  it  must 
be  that  if  the  people  of  that  country  have  been  able 
under  all  these  disadvantages  to  retain  any  liberty 
whatever,  the  advantage  of  biennial  elections  would 
secure  to  them  every  degree  of  liberty,  which  might 


The  Federalist  55 

depend  on  a  due  connection  between  their  represen- 
tatives and  themselves. 

Let  us  bring  our  inquiries  nearer  home.  The  ex- 
ample of  these  States,  when  British  colonies,  claims 
particular  attention,  at  the  same  time  that  it  is  so 
well  known  as  to  require  little  to  be  said  on  it.  The 
principle  of  representation,  in  one  branch  of  the  legis- 
lature at  least,  was  established  in  all  of  them.  But 
the  periods  of  election  were  different.  They  varied 
from  one  to  seven  years.  Have  we  any  reason  to 
infer,  from  the  spirit  and  conduct  of  the  representa- 
tives of  the  people,  prior  to  the  Revolution,  that 
biennial  elections  would  have  been  dangerous  to  the 
public  liberties?  The  spirit  which  everywhere  dis- 
played itself  at  the  commencement  of  the  struggle, 
and  which  vanquished  the  obstacles  to  independence, 
is  the  best  of  proofs  that  a  sufficient  portion  of  liberty 
had  been  everywhere  enjoyed  to  inspire  both  a  sense 
of  its  worth  and  a  zeal  for  its  proper  enlargement. 
This  remark  holds  good,  as  well  with  regard  to  the 
then  colonies  whose  elections  were  least  frequent,  as 
to  those  whose  elections  were  most  frequent.  Vir- 
ginia was  the  colony  which  stood  first  in  resisting 
the  parliamentary  usurpations  of  Great  Britain; 
it  was  the  first  also  in  espousing,  by  public  act, 
the  resolution  of  independence.  In  Virginia,  never- 
theless, if  I  have  not  been  misinformed,  elec- 
tions under  the  former  government  were  septennial. 
This  particular  example  is  brought  into  view,  not 
as  a  proof  of  any  peculiar  merit,  for  the  priority 
in  those  instances  was  probably  accidental;  and 
still  less   of   any  advantage  in  septennial  elections, 


56  Alexander  Hamilton 

for  when  compared  with  a  greater  frequency  they 
are  inadmissible  ;  but  merely  as  a  proof,  and  I 
conceive  it  to  be  a  very  substantial  proof,  that 
the  liberties  of  the  people  can  be  in  no  danger  from 
biennial  elections. 

The  conclusion  resulting  from  these  examples  will 
be  not  a  little  strengthened  by  recollecting  three 
circumstances.  The  first  is,  that  the  federal  legis- 
lature will  possess  a  part  only  of  that  supreme  legis- 
lative authority  which  is  vested  completely  in  the 
British  Parliament;  and  which,  with  a  few  excep- 
tions, was  exercised  by  the  colonial  assemblies  and 
the  Irish  legislature.  It  is  a  received  and  well- 
founded  maxim,  that  where  no  other  circumstances 
affect  the  case,  the  greater  the  power  is,  the  shorter 
ought  to  be  its  duration;  and,  conversely,  the 
smaller  the  power,  the  more  safely  may  its  duration 
be  protracted.  In  the  second  place,  it  has,  on  an- 
other occasion,  been  shown  that  the  federal  legisla- 
ture will  not  only  be  restrained  by  its  dependence  on 
the  people,  as  other  legislative  bodies  are,  but  that 
it  will  be,  moreover,  watched  and  controlled  by  the 
several  collateral  legislatiires,  which  other  legislative 
bodies  are  not.  And  in  the  third  place,  no  com- 
parison can  be  made  between  the  means  that  will  be 
possessed  by  the  more  permanent  branches  of  the 
federal  government  for  seducing,  if  they  should  be 
disposed  to  seduce,  the  House  of  Representatives 
from  their  duty  to  the  people,  and  the  means  of  in- 
fluence over  the  popular  branch  possessed  by  the 
other  branches  of  the  government  above  cited.  With 
less  power,  therefore,  to  abuse,  the  federal  repre- 


The  Federalist  57 

sentatives  can  be  less  tempted  on  one  side,  and  will 
be  doubly  watched  on  the  other. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Tuesday ^  February  12,  178S 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LIII 

(HAMILTON    OR    MADISON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

I  shall  here,  perhaps,  be  reminded  of  a  current 
observation,  ''that  where  annual  elections  end, 
tyranny  begins."  If  it  be  true,  as  has  often  been 
remarked,  that  sayings  which  become  proverbial  are 
generally  founded  in  reason,  it  is  not  less  true,  that 
when  once  established,  they  are  often  applied  to 
cases  to  which  the  reason  of  them  does  not  extend. 
I  need  not  look  for  a  proof  beyond  the  case  before  us. 
What  is  the  reason  on  which  this  proverbial  observa- 
tion is  founded?  No  man  will  subject  himself  to  the 
ridicule  of  pretending  that  any  natural  connection 
subsists  between  the  sun  or  the  seasons,  and  the 
period  within  v/hich  human  virtue  can  bear  the 
temptations  of  power.  Happily  for  mankind,  lib- 
erty is  not,  in  this  respect,  confined  to  any  single 
point  of  time ;  but  lies  within  extremes,  which  afford 
sufficient  latitude  for  all  the  variations  which  may 
be  required  by  the  various  situations  and  circum- 
stances of  civil  society.  The  election  of  magistrates 
might  be,  if  it  were  found  expedient,  as  in  some 
instances  it  actually  has  been,  daily,  weekly,  or 
monthly,  as  well  as  annual;    and  if  circumstances 


58  Alexander  Hamilton 

may  require  a  deviation  from  the  rule  on  one  side, 
why  not  also  on  the  other  side?  Turning  our  atten- 
tion to  the  periods  established  among  ourselves,  for 
the  election  of  the  most  numerous  branches  of  the 
State  legislatures,  we  find  them  by  no  means  coin- 
ciding any  more  in  this  instance,  than  in  the  elections 
of  other  civil  magistrates.  In  Connecticut  and 
Rhode  Island,  the  periods  are  half-yearly.  In  the 
other  States,  South  Carolina  excepted,  they  are  an- 
nual. In  South  Carolina,  they  are  biennial — as  is 
proposed  in  the  federal  government.  Here  is  a 
difference,  as  four  to  one,  between  the  longest  and 
shortest  periods;  and  yet  it  would  be  not  easy  to 
show,  that  Connecticut  or  Rhode  Island  is  better 
governed,  or  enjoys  a  greater  share  of  rational  lib- 
erty than  South  Carolina;  or  that  either  the  one  or 
the  other  of  these  States  is  distinguished  in  these 
respects,  and  by  these  causes,  from  the  States  whose 
elections  are  different  from  both. 

In  searching  for  the  grounds  of  this  doctrine,  I  can 
discover  but  one,  and  that  is  wholly  inapplicable  to 
our  case.  The  important  distinction  so  well  under- 
stood in  America,  between  a  Constitution  established 
by  the  people  and  unalterable  by  the  government, 
and  a  law  established  by  the  government  and  alter- 
able by  the  government,  seems  to  have  been  little 
understood  and  less  observed  in  any  other  country. 
Wherever  the  supreme  power  of  legislation  has  re- 
sided, has  been  supposed  to  reside  also  a  full  power 
to  change  the  form  of  the  government.  Even  in 
Great  Britain,  where  the  principles  of  political  and 
civil  liberty  have  been  most  discussed,  and  where  we 


The  Federalist  59 

hear  most  of  the  rights  of  the  Constitution,  it  is  main- 
tained that  the  authority  of  the  ParHament  is  trans- 
cendent and  uncontrollable,  as  well  with  regard  to 
the  Constitution,  as  the  ordinary  objects  of  legisla- 
tive provision.  They  have  accordingly,  in  several 
instances,  actually  changed,  by  legislative  acts,  some 
of  the  most  fundamental  articles  of  the  government. 
They  have  in  particular,  on  several  occasions,  changed 
the  period  of  election;  and,  on  the  last  occasion,  not 
only  introduced  septennial  in  place  of  triennial  elec- 
tions, but  by  the  same  act,  continued  themselves  in 
place  four  years  beyond  the  term  for  which  they  were 
elected  by  the  people.  An  attention  to  these  dan- 
gerous practices  has  produced  a  very  natural  alarm 
in  the  votaries  of  free  government,  of  which  fre- 
quency of  elections  is  the  comer-stone;  and  has  led 
them  to  seek  for  some  security  to  liberty,  against  the 
danger  to  which  it  is  exposed.  Where  no  Constitu- 
tion, paramount  to  the  government,  either  existed 
or  could  be  obtained,  no  constitutional  security, 
similar  to  that  established  in  the  United  States,  was 
to  be  attempted.  Some  other  security,  therefore, 
was  to  be  sought  for ;  and  what  better  security  would 
the  case  admit,  than  that  of  selecting  and  appealing 
to  some  simple  and  familiar  portion  of  time,  as  a 
standard  for  measuring  the  danger  of  innovations, 
for  fixing  the  national  sentiment,  and  for  uniting  the 
patriotic  exertions?  The  most  simple  and  familiar 
portion  of  time,  applicable  to  the  subject,  was  that 
of  a  year;  and  hence  the  doctrine  has  been  incul- 
cated by  a  laudable  zeal,  to  erect  some  barrier  against 
the  gradual  innovations  of  an   unlimited  govern- 


6o  Alexander  Hamilton 

ment,  that  the  advance  towards  tyranny  was  to  be 
calculated  by  the  distance  of  departure  from  the 
fixed  point  of  annual  elections.  But  what  necessity 
can  there  be  of  applying  this  expedient  to  a  govern- 
ment limited,  as  the  federal  government  will  be,  by 
the  authority  of  a  paramount  Constitution?  Or 
who  will  pretend  that  the  liberties  of  the  people  of 
America  will  not  be  more  secure  under  biennial 
elections,  unalterably  fixed  by  such  a  Constitution, 
than  those  of  any  other  nation  would  be,  where  elec- 
tions were  annual,  or  even  more  frequent,  but  sub- 
ject to  alterations  by  the  ordinary  power  of  the 
government  ? 

The  second  question  stated  is,  whether  biennial 
elections  be  necessary  or  useful.  The  propriety  of 
answering  this  question  in  the  affirmative  will  ap- 
pear from  several  very  obvious  considerations. 

No  man  can  be  a  competent  legislator  who  does 
not  add  to  an  upright  intention  and  a  sound  judg- 
ment a  certain  degree  of  knowledge  of  the  subjects 
on  which  he  is  to  legislate.  A  part  of  this  know- 
ledge may  be  acquired  by  means  of  information 
which  lie  within  the  compass  of  men  in  private  as 
well  as  public  stations.  Another  part  can  only  be 
attained,  or  at  least  thoroughly  attained,  by  actual 
^  experience  in  the  station  which  requires  the  use  of 
it.  The  period  of  service,  ought,  therefore,  in  all 
such  cases,  to  bear  some  proportion  to  the  extent 
of  practical  knowledge  requisite  to  the  due  perform- 
ance of  the  service.  The  period  of  legislative  ser- 
vice established  in  most  of  the  States  for  the  more 
numerous  branch  is,  as  we  have  seen,  one  year.     The 


The  Federalist  6i 

question  then  may  be  put  into  this  simple  form: 
does  the  period  of  two  years  bear  no  greater  propor- 
tion to  the  knowledge  requisite  for  federal  legislation 
than  one  year  does  to  the  knowledge  requisite  for 
State  legislation?  The  very  statement  of  the  ques- 
tion, in  this  form,  suggests  the  answer  that  ought  to 
be  given  to  it. 

In  a  single  State,  the  requisite  knowledge  relates 
to  the  existing  laws,  which  are  uniform  throughout 
the  State,  and  with  which  all  the  citizens  are  more 
or  less  conversant;  and  to  the  general  affairs  of  the 
State,  which  lie  within  a  small  compass,  are  not  very 
diversified,  and  occupy  much  of  the  attention  and 
conversation  of  every  class  of  people.  The  great 
theatre  of  the  United  States  presents  a  very  different 
scene.  The  laws  are  so  far  from  being  uniform,  that 
they  vary  in  every  State;  whilst  the  public  affairs 
of  the  Union  are  spread  throughout  a  very  extensive 
region,  and  are  extremely  diversified  by  the  local 
affairs  connected  with  them,  and  can  with  difficulty 
be  correctly  learnt  in  any  other  place  than  in  the 
central  councils,  to  which  a  knowledge  of  them  will 
be  brought  by  the  representatives  of  every  part  of 
the  empire.  Yet  some  knowledge  of  the  affairs,  and 
even  of  the  laws,  of  all  the  States,  ought  to  be  pos- 
sessed by  the  members  from  each  of  the  States. 
How  can  foreign  trade  be  properly  regulated  by 
uniform  laws,  without  some  acquaintance  with  the 
commerce,  the  ports,  the  usages,  and  the  regulations 
of  the  different  States?  How  can  the  trade  be- 
tween the  different  States  be  duly  regulated,  without 
some  knowledge  of  their  relative  situations  in  these 


62  Alexander  Hamilton 

and  other  respects  ?  How  can  taxes  be  judiciously 
imposed  and  effectually  collected,  if  they  be  not  ac- 
commodated to  the  different  laws  and  local  circum- 
stances relating  to  these  objects  in  the  different 
States?  How  can  uniform  regulations  for  the  mi- 
litia be  duly  provided,  without  a  similar  knowledge 
of  many  internal  circumstances  by  which  the  States 
are  distinguished  from  each  other?  These  are  the 
principal  objects  of  federal  legislation,  and  suggest 
most  forcibly  the  extensive  information  which  the 
representatives  ought  to  acquire.  The  other  in- 
terior objects  will  require  a  proportional  degree  of 
information  with  regard  to  them. 

It  is  true  that  all  these  difficulties  will,  by  degrees, 
be  very  much  diminished.  The  most  laborious  task 
will  be  the  proper  inauguration  of  the  government 
and  the  primeval  formation  of  a  federal  code.  Im- 
provements on  the  first  draughts  will  every  year  be- 
come both  easier  and  fewer.  Past  transactions  of 
the  government  will  be  a  ready  and  accurate  source 
of  information  to  new  members.  The  affairs  of  the 
Union  will  become  more  and  more  objects  of  curiosity 
and  conversation  among  the  citizens  at  large.  And 
the  increased  intercourse  among  those  of  different 
States  will  contribute  not  a  little  to  diffuse  a  mutual 
knowledge  of  their  affairs,  as  this  again  will  contri- 
bute to  a  general  assimilation  of  their  manners  and 
laws  But  with  all  these  abatements,  the  business 
of  federal  legislation  must  continue  so  far  to  exceed, 
both  in  novelty  and  difficulty,  the  legislative  busi- 
ness of  a  single  State,  as  to  justify  the  longer  period 
of  service  assigned  to  those  who  are  to  transact  it. 


The  Federalist  63 

A  branch  of  knowledge  which  belongs  to  the  ac- 
quirements of  a  federal  representative,  and  which 
has  not  been  mentioned,  is  that  of  foreign  affairs. 
In  regulating  our  own  commerce,  he  ought  to  be 
not  only  acquainted  with  the  treaties  between  the 
United  States  and  other  nations,  but  also  with  the 
commercial  policy  and  laws  of  other  nations.  He 
ought  not  to  be  altogether  ignorant  of  the  law  of 
nations;  for  that,  as  far  as  it  is  a  proper  object 
of  municipal  legislation,  is  submitted  to  the  federal 
government.  And  although  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives is  not  immediately  to  participate  in 
foreign  negotiations  and  arrangements,  yet  from  the 
necessary  connection  between  the  several  branches 
of  public  affairs,  those  particular  branches  will  fre- 
quently deserve  attention  in  the  ordinary  course  of 
legislation,  and  will  sometimes  demand  particular 
legislative  sanction  and  cooperation.  Some  portion 
of  this  knowledge  may,  no  doubt,  be  acquired  in  a 
man's  closet;  but  some  of  it  also  can  only  be  derived 
from  the  public  sources  of  information ;  and  all  of  it 
will  be  acquired  to  best  effect  by  a  practical  atten- 
tion to  the  subject  during  the  period  of  actual  ser- 
vice in  the  legislature. 

There  are  other  considerations,  of  less  importance, 
perhaps,  but  which  are  not  unworthy  of  notice.  The 
distance  which  many  of  the  representatives  will  be 
obliged  to  travel,  and  the  arrangements  rendered 
necessary  by  that  circumstance,  might  be  much 
more  serious  objections  with  fit  men  to  this  service, 
if  limited  to  a  single  year,  than  if  extended  to  two 
years.     No  argument  can  be  drawn  on  this  subject, 


64  Alexander  Hamilton 

from  the  case  of  the  delegates  to  the  existing  Con- 
gress. They  are  elected  annually,  it  is  true;  but 
their  reelection  is  considered  by  the  legislative  as- 
semblies almost  as  a  matter  of  course.  The  election 
of  the  representatives  by  the  people  would  not  be 
governed  by  the  same  principle. 

A  few  of  the  members,  as  happens  in  all  such  as- 
semblies, will  possess  superior  talents;  will,  by  fre- 
quent reelections,  become  members  of  long  standing, 
will  be  thoroughly  masters  of  the  public  business, 
and  perhaps  not  unwilling  to  avail  themselves  of 
those  advantages.  The  greater  the  proportion  of 
new  members,  and  the  less  the  information  of  the 
bulk  of  the  members,  the  more  apt  will  they  be  to 
fall  into  the  snares  that  may  be  laid  for  them.  This 
remark  is  no  less  applicable  to  the  relation  which  will 
subsist  between  the  House  of  Representatives  and 
the  Senate. 

It  is  an  inconvenience  mingled  with  the  advan- 
tages of  our  frequent  elections,  even  in  single  States, 
where  they  are  large,  and  hold  but  one  legislative 
session  in  a  year,  that  spurious  elections  cannot  be 
investigated  and  annulled  in  time  for  the  decision 
to  have  its  due  effect.  If  a  return  can  be  obtained, 
no  matter  by  what  unlawful  means,  the  irregiilar 
member,  who  takes  his  seat  of  course,  is  sure  of  hold- 
ing it  a  sufficient  time  to  answer  his  purposes.  Hence, 
a  very  pernicious  encouragement  is  given  to  the  use 
of  unlawful  means,  for  obtaining  irregular  returns. 
Were  elections  for  the  federal  legislature  to  be  an- 
nual, this  practice  might  become  a  very  serious 
abuse,  particularly  in  the  more  distant  States.     Each 


The  Federalist  65 

house  is,  as  it  necessarily  must  be,  the  judge  of  the 
elections,  qualifications,  and  returns  of  its  members; 
and  whatever  improvements  may  be  suggested  by 
experience,  for  simplifying  and  accelerating  the  pro- 
cess in  disputed  cases,  so  great  a  portion  of  a  year 
would  unavoidably  elapse,  before  an  illegitimate 
member  could  be  dispossessed  of  his  seat,  that  the 
prospect  of  such  an  event  would  be  little  check  to 
unfair  and  illicit  means  of  obtaining  a  seat. 

All  these  considerations  taken  together  warrant 
us  in  affirming,  that  biennial  elections  will  be  as  use- 
ful to  the  affairs  of  the  public,  as  we  have  seen  that 
they  will  be  safe  to  the  liberty  of  the  people. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Tuesday,  February  12,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LIV 

(HAMILTON    OR    MADISON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

The  next  view  which  I  shall  take  of  the  House  of 
Representatives  relates  to  the  appointment  of  its 
members  to  the  several  States,  which  is  to  be  deter- 
mined by  the  same  rule  with  that  of  direct  taxes. 

It  is  not  contended  that  the  number  of  people  in 
each  State  ought  not  to  be  the  standard  for  regulat- 
ing the  proportion  of  those  who  are  to  represent  the 
people  of  each  State.  The  establishment  of  the 
same  rule  for  the  appointment  of  taxes  will  probably 
be  as  little  contested;  though  the  rule  itself,  in  this 
case,  is  by  no  means  founded  on  the  same  principle. 

VOL.  Xll.— 5. 


66  Alexander  Hamilton 

In  the  former  case,  the  rule  is  understood  to  refer  to 
the  personal  rights  of  the  people,  with  which  it  has  a 
natural  and  universal  connection.  In  the  latter,  it 
has  reference  to  the  proportion  of  wealth,  of  which 
it  is  in  no  case  a  precise  measure,  and  in  ordinary 
cases  a  very  unfit  one.  But  notwithstanding  the 
imperfection  of  the  rule  as  applied  to  the  relative 
wealth  and  contributions  of  the  States,  it  is  evi- 
dently the  least  objectionable  among  the  practicable 
rules,  and  had  too  recently  obtained  the  general 
sanction  of  America,  not  to  have  found  a  ready  pre- 
ference with  the  convention. 

All  this  is  admitted,  it  will  perhaps  be  said;  but 
does  it  follow,  from  an  admission  of  numbers  for  the 
measure  of  representation,  or  of  slaves  combined 
with  free  citizens  as  a  ratio  of  taxation,  that  slaves 
ought  to  be  included  in  the  numerical  rule  of  repre- 
sentation? Slaves  are  considered  as  property,  not 
as  persons.  They  ought  therefore  to  be  compre- 
hended in  estimates  of  taxation  which  are  founded 
on  property,  and  to  be  excluded  from  representation 
which  is  regulated  by  a  census  of  persons.  This  is 
the  objection,  as  I  understand  it,  stated  in  its  full 
force.  I  shall  be  equally  candid  in  stating  the 
reasoning  which  may  be  offered  on  the  opposite 
side. 

*' We  subscribe  to  the  doctrine,''  might  one  of  our 
Southern  brethren  observe,  "  that  representation  re- 
lates more  immediately  to  persons,  and  taxation 
more  immediately  to  property,  and  we  join  in  the 
application  of  this  distinction  to  the  case  of  our 
slaves.     But  we  must  deny  the  fact,  that  slaves  are 


The  Federalist  67 

considered  merely  as  property,  and  in  no  respect 
whatever  as  persons.  The  true  state  of  the  case  is, 
that  they  partake  of  both  these  qualities :  being  con- 
sidered by  our  laws,  in  some  respects,  as  persons, 
and  in  other  respects  as  property.  In  being  com- 
pelled to  labor,  not  for  himself,  but  for  a  master;  in 
being  vendible  by  one  master  to  another  master; 
and  in  being  subject  at  all  times  to  be  restrained  in 
his  liberty  and  chastised  in  his  body,  by  the  capricious 
will  of  another, — the  slave  may  appear  to  be  de- 
graded from  the  human  rank,  and  classed  with 
those  irrational  animals  which  fall  under  the  legal 
denomination  of  property.  In  being  protected,  on 
the  other  hand,  in  his  life  and  in  his  limbs,  against 
the  violence  of  all  others,  even  the  master  of  his 
labor  and  his  liberty;  and  in  being  punishable  him- 
self for  all  violence  committed  against  others, — the 
slave  is  no  less  evidently  regarded  by  the  law  as  a 
member  of  the  society,  not  as  a  part  of  the  irrational 
creation ;  as  a  moral  person,  not  as  a  mere  article  of 
property.  The  federal  Constitution,  therefore,  de- 
cides with  great  propriety  on  the  case  of  our  slaves, 
when  it  views  them  in  the  mixed  character  of  per- 
sons and  of  property.  This  is  in  fact  their  true 
character.  It  is  the  character  bestowed  on  them  by 
the  laws  under  which  they  Hve;  and  it  will  not  be 
denied,  that  these  are  the  proper  criterion;  because 
it  is  only  under  the  pretext  that  the  laws  have 
transformed  the  negroes  into  subjects  of  property, 
that  a  place  is  disputed  them  in  the  computation 
of  numbers;  and  it  is  admitted,  that  if  the  laws 
were  to  restore  the   rights   which  have  been  taken 


68  Alexander  Hamilton 

away,  the  negroes  could  no  longer  be  refused  an 
equal  share  of  representation  with  the  other  in- 
habitants. 

''This  question  may  be  placed  in  another  light. 
It  is  agreed  on  all  sides,  that  numbers  are  the  best 
scale  of  wealth  and  taxation,  as  they  are  the  only 
proper  scale  of  representation.  Would  the  conven- 
tion have  been  impartial  or  consistent,  if  they  had  re- 
jected the  slaves  from  the  list  of  inhabitants,  when 
the  shares  of  representation  were  to  be  calculated, 
and  inserted  them  on  the  lists  when  the  tariff  of 
contributions  was  to  be  adjusted  ?  Could  it  be  reason- 
ably expected,  that  the  Southern  States  would  con- 
cur in  a  system,  which  considered  their  slaves  in 
some  degree  as  men,  when  burdens  were  to  be  im- 
posed, but  refused  to  consider  them  in  the  same 
light,  when  advantages  were  to  be  conferred?  Might 
not  some  surprise  also  be  expressed,  that  those  who 
reproach  the  Southern  States  with  the  barbarous 
policy  of  considering  as  property  a  part  of  their 
human  brethren,  should  themselves  contend,  that 
the  government  to  which  all  the  States  are  to  be 
parties,  ought  to  consider  this  unfortunate  race  more 
completely  in  the  unnatural  light  of  property,  than 
the  very  laws  of  which  they  complain? 

**  It  may  be  replied,  perhaps,  that  slaves  are  not 
included  in  the  estimate  of  representatives  in  any 
of  the  States  possessing  them.  They  neither  vote 
themselves  nor  increase  the  votes  of  their  masters. 
Upon  what  principle,  then,  ought  they  to  be  taken 
into  the  federal  estimate  of  representation?  In  re- 
jecting them  altogether,  the  Constitution  would,  in 


The  Federalist  69 

this  respect,  have  followed  the  very  laws  which  have 
been  appealed  to  as  the  proper  guide. 

''  This  objection  is  repelled  by  a  single  observation. 
It  is  a  fundamental  principle  of  the  proposed  Con- 
stitution, that  as  the  aggregate  number  of  repre- 
sentatives allotted  to  the  several  States  is  to  be 
determined  by  a  federal  rule,  founded  on  the  aggre- 
gate number  of  inhabitants,  so  the  right  of  choosing 
this  allotted  number  in  each  State  is  to  be  exercised 
by  such  part  of  the  inhabitants  as  the  State  itself  may 
designate.  The  qualifications  on  which  the  right  of 
suffrage  depend  are  not,  perhaps,  the  same  in  any 
two  States.  In  some  of  the  States  the  difference  is 
very  material.  In  every  State,  a  certain  proportion 
of  inhabitants  are  deprived  of  this  right  by  the  con- 
stitution of  the  State,  who  will  be  included  in  the 
consus  by  which  the  federal  Constitution  apportions 
the  representatives.  In  this  point  of  view  the 
Southern  States  might  retort  the  complaint,  by  in- 
sisting that  the  principle  laid  down  by  the  convention 
required  that  no  regard  should  be  had  to  the  policy  of 
particular  States  towards  their  own  inhabitants ;  and 
consequently,  that  the  slaves,  as  inhabitants,  should 
have  been  admitted  into  the  census  according  to  their 
full  number,  in  like  manner  with  other  inhabitants, 
who,  by  the  policy  of  other  States,  are  not  admitted 
to  all  the  rights  of  citizens.  A  rigorous  adherence, 
however,  to  this  principle,  is  waived  by  those  who 
would  be  gainers  by  it.  All  that  they  ask  is  that 
equal  moderation  be  shown  on  the  other  side.  Let 
the  case  of  the  slaves  be  considered,  as  it  is  in  truth, 
a  peculiar  one.     Let  the  compromising  expedient  of 


70  Alexander  Hamilton 

the  Constitution  be  mutually  adopted,  which  regards 
them  as  inhabitants,  but  as  debased  by  servitude 
below  the  equal  level  of  free  inhabitants;  which 
regards  the  slave  as  divested  of  two  fifths  of  the 
man. 

''After  all,  may  not  another  ground  be  taken  on 
which  this  article  of  the  Constitution  will  admit  of 
a  still  more  ready  defence?  We  have  hitherto  pro- 
ceeded on  the  idea  that  representation  related  to 
persons  only,  and  not  at  all  to  property.  But  is  it 
a  just  idea?  Government  is  instituted  no  less  for 
protection  of  the  property,  than  of  the  persons,  of 
individuals.  The  one  as  well  as  the  other  therefore, 
may  be  considered  as  represented  by  those  who  are 
charged  with  the  government.  Upon  this  principle 
it  is,  that  in  several  of  the  States,  and  particularly 
in  the  State  of  New  York,  one  branch  of  the  govern- 
ment is  intended  more  especially  to  be  the  guardian 
of  property,  and  is  accordingly  elected  by  that  part  of 
the  society  which  is  most  interested  in  this  object 
of  government.  In  the  federal  Constitution,  this 
policy  does  not  prevail.  The  rights  of  property  are 
committed  into  the  same  hands  with  the  personal 
rights.  Some  attention  ought,  therefore,  to  be  paid 
to  property  in  the  choice  of  those  hands. 

*'  For  another  reason,  the  votes  allowed  in  the 
federal  legislature  to  the  people  of  each  State,  ought 
to  bear  some  proportion  to  the  comparative  wealth 
of  the  States.  States  have  not,  like  individuals,  an 
influence  over  each  other,  arising  from  superior 
advantages  of  fortune.  If  the  law  allows  an  opulent 
citizen  but  a  single  vote  in  the  choice  of  his  repre- 


The  Federalist  71 

sentative,  the  respect  and  consequence  which  he 
derives  from  his  fortunate  situation  very  frequently 
guide  the  votes  of  others  to  the  objects  of  his  choice ; 
and  through  this  imperceptible  channel,  the  rights  of 
property  are  conveyed  into  the  public  representation. 
A  State  possesses  no  such  influence  over  other  States. 
It  is  not  probable  that  the  richest  State  in  the  Con- 
federacy will  ever  influence  the  choice  of  a  single 
representative  in  any  other  State.  Nor  will  the 
representatives  of  the  larger  and  richer  States 
possess  any  other  advantage  in  the  federal  legislature, 
over  the  representatives  of  other  States,  than  what 
may  result  from  their  superior  number  alone.  As 
far,  therefore,  as  their  superior  wealth  and  weight 
may  justly  entitle  them  to  any  advantage,  it  ought 
to  be  secured  to  them  by  a  superior  share  of  repre- 
sentation. The  new  Constitution  is,  in  this  respect, 
materially  different  from  the  existing  Confederation, 
as  well  as  from  that  of  the  United  Netherlands,  and 
other  similar  confederacies.  In  each  of  the  latter, 
the  efficacy  of  the  federal  resolutions  depends  on  the 
subsequent  and  voluntary  resolutions  of  the  states 
composing  the  union.  Hence  the  states,  though 
possessing  an  equal  vote  in  the  public  councils,  have 
an  unequal  influence,  corresponding  with  the  unequal 
importance  of  these  subsequent  and  voluntary  reso- 
lutions. Under  the  proposed  Constitution,  the 
federal  acts  will  take  effect  without  the  necessary 
intervention  of  the  individual  States.  They  will 
depend  merely  on  the  majority  of  votes  in  the  federal 
legislature,  and  consequently  each  vote,  whether 
proceeding  from  a  larger  or  smaller  State,  or  a  State 


72  Alexander  Hamilton 

more  or  less  wealthy  or  powerful,  will  have  an  equal 
weight  and  efficacy ;  in  the  same  manner  as  the  votes 
individually  given  in  a  State  legislature,  by  the 
representatives  of  unequal  counties  or  other  districts, 
have  each  a  precise  equality  of  value  and  effect ;  or  if 
there  be  any  difference  in  the  case,  it  proceeds  from 
the  difference  in  the  personal  character  of  the  indi- 
vidual representative,  rather  than  from  any  regard 
to  the  extent  of  the  district  from  which  he  comes." 

Such  is  the  reasoning  which  an  advocate  for  the 
Southern  interests  might  employ  on  this  subject ;  and 
although  it  may  appear  to  be  a  little  strained  in  some 
points,  yet,  on  the  whole,  I  must  confess  that  it  fully 
reconciles  me  to  the  scale  of  representation  which  the 
convention  have  established. 

In  one  respect,  the  establishment  of  a  common 
measure  for  representation  and  taxation  will  have  a 
very  salutary  effect.  As  the  accuracy  of  the  census 
to  be  obtained  by  the  Congress  will  necessarily  de- 
pend, in  a  considerable  degree,  on  the  disposition,  if 
not  on  the  cooperation,  of  the  States,  it  is  of  great 
importance  that  the  States  should  feel  as  little  bias 
as  possible,  to  swell  or  to  reduce  the  amount  of  their 
numbers.  Were  their  share  of  representation  alone 
to  be  governed  by  this  rule,  they  would  have  an 
interest  in  exaggerating  their  inhabitants.  Were  the 
rule  to  decide  their  share  of  taxation  alone,  a  contrary 
temptation  would  prevail.  By  extending  the  rule  to 
both  objects,  the  States  will  have  opposite  interests, 
which  will  control  and  balance  each  other,  and  pro- 
duce the  requisite  impartiality. 

PUBLIUS. 


The  Federalist  "]2i 

From  the  New  York  Packet,  Friday,  February  15,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LV 

(HAMILTON    OR    MADISON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

The  number  of  which  the  House  of  Representatives 
is  to  consist,  forms  another  and  a  very  interesting 
point  of  view,  under  which  this  branch  of  the  federal 
legislature  may  be  contemplated.  Scarce  any  arti- 
cle, indeed,  in  the  whole  Constitution  seems  to  be 
rendered  more  worthy  of  attention,  by  the  weight  of 
character  and  the  apparent  force  of  argument  with 
which  it  has  been  assailed.  The  charges  exhibited 
against  it  are,  first,  that  so  small  a  number  of  repre- 
sentatives will  be  an  unsafe  depositary  of  the  public 
interests;  secondly,  that  they  will  not  possess  a 
proper  knowledge  of  the  local  circumstances  of  their 
numerous  constituents;  thirdly,  that  they  will  be 
taken  from  that  class  of  citizens  which  will  sym- 
pathize least  with  the  feelings  of  the  mass  of  the 
people,  and  be  most  likely  to  aim  at  a  permanent  ele- 
vation of  the  few  on  the  depression  of  the  many; 
fourthly,  that  defective  as  the  number  will  be  in  the 
first  instance,  it  will  be  more  and  more  dispropor- 
tionate, by  the  increase  of  the  people,  and  the 
obstacles  which  will  prevent  a  correspondent  increase 
of  the  representatives. 

In  general  it  may  be  remarked  on  this  subject,  that 
no  political  problem  is  less  susceptible  of  a  precise 
solution  than  that  which  relates  to  the  number  most 
convenient  for  a  representative  legislature;  nor  is 
there  any  point  on  which  the  policy  of  the  several 


74  Alexander  Hamilton 

States  is  more  at  variance,  whether  we  compare  their 
legislative  assemblies  directly  with  each  other,  or 
consider  the  proportions  which  they  respectively  bear 
to  the  number  of  their  constituents.  Passing  over 
the  difference  between  the  smallest  and  largest  States, 
as  Delaware,  whose  most  numerous  branch  consists 
of  twenty-one  representatives,  and  Massachusetts, 
where  it  amounts  to  between  three  and  four  hundred, 
a  very  considerable  difference  is  observable  among 
States  nearly  equal  in  population.  The  number  of 
representatives  in  Pennsylvania  is  not  more  than  one 
fifth  of  that  in  the  State  last  mentioned.  New  York, 
whose  population  is  to  that  of  South  Carolina  as  six 
to  five,  has  little  more  than  one  third  of  the  number 
of  representatives.  As  great  a  disparity  prevails  be- 
tween the  States  of  Georgia  and  Delaware  or  Rhode 
Island.  In  Pennsylvania,  the  representatives  do  not 
bear  a  greater  proportion  to  their  constituents  than  of 
one  for  every  four  or  five  thousand.  In  Rhode  Isl- 
and, they  bear  a  proportion  of  at  least  one  for  every 
thousand.  And  according  to  the  constitution  of 
Georgia,  the  proportion  may  be  carried  to  one  to 
every  ten  electors ;  and  must  unavoidably  far  exceed 
the  proportion  in  any  of  the  other  States. 

Another  general  remark  to  be  made  is,  that  the 
ratio  between  the  representatives  and  the  people 
ought  not  to  be  the  same  where  the  latter  are  very 
numerous  as  where  they  are  very  few.  Were  the 
representatives  in  Virginia  to  be  regulated  by  the 
standard  in  Rhode  Island,  they  would,  at  this  time, 
amount  to  between  four  and  five  hundred;  and 
twenty  or  thirty  years  hence,  to  a  thousand.     On  the 


The  Federalist  75 

other  hand,  the  ratio  of  Pennsylvania,  if  applied  to 
the  State  of  Delaware,  would  reduce  the  representa- 
tive assembly  of  the  latter  to  seven  or  eight  members. 
Nothing  can  be  more  fallacious  than  to  found  our 
political  calculations  on  arithmetical  principles. 
Sixty  or  seventy  men  may  be  more  properly  trusted 
with  a  given  degree  of  power  than  six  or  seven.  But 
it  does  not  follow  that  six  or  seven  hundred  would 
be  proportionably  a  better  depositary.  And  if  we 
carry  on  the  supposition  to  six  or  seven  thousand,  the 
whole  reasoning  ought  to  be  reversed.  The  truth  is, 
that  in  all  cases  a  certain  number  at  least  seems  to  be 
necessary  to  secure  the  benefits  of  free  consultation 
and  discussion,  and  to  guard  against  too  easy  a 
combination  for  improper  purposes;  as,  on  the  other 
hand,  the  number  ought  at  most  to  be  kept  within 
a  certain  limit,  in  order  to  avoid  the  confusion  and 
intemperance  of  a  multitude.  In  all  very  numerous 
assemblies,  of  whatever  character  composed,  passion 
never  fails  to  wrest  the  sceptre  from  reason.  Had 
every  Athenian  citizen  been  a  Socrates,  every  Athe- 
nian assembly  would  still  have  been  a  mob. 

It  is  necessary  also  to  recollect  here  the  observa- 
tions which  were  applied  to  the  case  of  biennial 
elections.  For  the  same  reason  that  the  limited 
powers  of  the  Congress,  and  the  control  of  the  State 
legislatures,  justify  less  frequent  elections  than  the 
public  safely  might  otherwise  require,  the  members 
of  the  Congress  need  be  less  numerous  than  if  they 
possessed  the  whole  power  of  legislation,  and  were 
under  no  other  than  the  ordinary  restraints  of  other 
legislative  bodies. 


76  Alexander  Hamilton 

With  these  general  ideas  in  our  minds,  let  us  weigh 
the  objections  which  have  been  stated  against  the 
number  of  members  proposed  for  the  House  of 
Representatives.  It  is  said,  in  the  first  place,  that 
so  small  a  number  cannot  be  safely  trusted  with  so 
much  power. 

The  number  of  which  this  branch  of  the  legislature 
is  to  consist,  at  the  outset  of  the  government,  will  be 
sixty-five.  Within  three  years  a  census  is  to  be 
taken,  when  the  number  may  be  augmented  to  one 
for  every  thirty  thousand  inhabitants;  and  within 
every  successive  period  of  ten  years  the  census  is  to 
be  renewed,  and  augmentations  may  continue  to  be 
made  under  the  above  limitation.  It  will  not  be 
thought  an  extravagant  conjecture  that  the  first 
census  will,  at  the  rate  of  one  for  every  thirty  thou- 
sand, raise  the  number  of  representatives  to  at  least 
one  hundred.  Estimating  the  negroes  in  the  pro- 
portion of  three  fifths,  it  can  scarcely  be  doubted 
that  the  population  of  the  United  States  will  by  that 
time,  if  it  does  not  already,  amount  to  three  millions. 
At  the  expiration  of  twenty-five  years,  according  to 
the  computed  rate  of  increase,  the  number  of  repre- 
sentatives will  amount  to  two  hundred;  and  of  fifty 
years,  to  four  hundred.  This  is  a  number  which,  I 
presume,  will  put  an  end  to  all  fears  arising  from  the 
smallness  of  the  body.  I  take  for  granted  here  what 
I  shall,  in  answering  the  fourth  objection,  hereafter 
show,  that  the  number  of  representatives  will  be  aug- 
mented from  time  to  time  in  the  manner  provided  by 
the  Constitution.  On  a  contrary  supposition,  I  should 
admit  the  objection  to  have  very  great  weight  indeed. 


The  Federalist  77 

The  true  question  to  be  decided  then  is,  whether 
the  smallness  of  the  number,  as  a  temporary  regula- 
tion, be  dangerous  to  the  pubhc  Hberty?  Whether 
sixty-five  members  for  a  few  years,  and  a  hundred 
or  two  hundred  for  a  few  more,  be  a  safe  depositary 
for  a  Hmited  and  well-guarded  power  of  legislating 
for  the  United  States  ?  I  must  own  that  I  could  not 
give  a  negative  answer  to  this  question,  without  first 
obliterating  every  impression  which  I  have  received 
with  regard  to  the  present  genius  of  the  people  of 
America,  the  spirit  which  actuates  the  State  legisla- 
tures, and  the  principles  which  are  incorporated  with 
the  political  character  of  every  class  of  citizens.  I 
am  unable  to  conceive  that  the  people  of  America,  in 
their  present  temper,  or  under  any  circumstances 
which  can  speedily  happen,  will  choose,  and  every 
second  year  repeat  the  choice  of,  sixty-five  or  a  hun- 
dred men  who  would  be  disposed  to  form  and  pursue 
a  scheme  of  tyranny  or  treachery.  I  am  unable  to 
conceive  that  the  State  legislatures,  which  must  feel 
so  many  motives  to  watch,  and  which  possess  so 
many  means  of  counteracting,  the  federal  legislature, 
would  fail  either  to  detect  or  to  defeat  a  conspiracy 
of  the  latter  against  the  liberties  of  their  common 
constituents.  I  am  equally  unable  to  conceive  that 
there  are  at  this  time,  or  can  be  in  any  short  time, 
in  the  United  States,  any  sixty-five  or  a  hundred 
men  capable  of  recommending  themselves  to  the 
choice  of  the  people  at  large,  who  would  either  desire 
or  dare,  within  the  short  space  of  two  years,  to  betray 
the  solemn  trust  committed  to  them.  What  change 
of  circumstances,  time,  and  a  fuller  population  of  our 


78  Alexander  Hamilton 

country  may  produce,  requires  a  prophetic  spirit  to 
declare,  which  makes  no  part  of  my  pretensions. 
But  judging  from  the  circumstances  now  before 
us,  and  from  the  probable  state  of  them  within  a 
moderate  period  of  time,  I  must  pronounce  that 
the  liberties  of  America  cannot  be  unsafe  in  the 
number  of  hands  proposed  by  the  federal  Consti- 
tution. 

From  what  quarter  can  the  danger  proceed  ?  Are 
we  afraid  of  foreign  gold?  If  foreign  gold  could  so 
easily  corrupt  our  federal  rulers  and  enable  them  to 
ensnare  and  betray  their  constituents,  how  has  it 
happened  that  we  are  at  this  time  a  free  and  inde- 
pendent nation?  The  congress  which  conducted  us 
through  the  Revolution  was  a  less  numerous  body 
than  their  successors  will  be;  they  were  not  chosen 
by,  nor  responsible  to,  their  fellow-citizens  at  large; 
though  appointed  from  year  to  year,  and  recallable 
at  pleasure,  they  were  generally  continued  for  three 
years,  and,  prior  to  the  ratification  of  the  federal 
articles,  for  a  still  longer  term.  They  held  their 
consultations  always  under  the  veil  of  secrecy ;  they 
had  the  sole  transaction  of  our  affairs  with  foreign 
nations:  through  the  whole  course  of  the  war  they 
had  the  fate  of  their  country  more  in  their  hands  than 
it  is  to  be  hoped  will  ever  be  the  case  with  our  future 
representatives ;  and  from  the  greatness  of  the  prize 
at  stake,  and  the  eagerness  of  the  party  which  lost  it, 
it  may  well  be  supposed  that  the  use  of  other  means 
than  force  would  not  have  been  scrupled.  Yet  we 
know  by  happy  experience  that  the  public  trust  was 
not  betrayed ;  nor  has  the  purity  of  our  public  coim- 


The  Federalist  79 

cils  in  this  particular  ever  suffered,  even  from  the 
whispers  of  calumny. 

Is  the  danger  apprehended  from  the  other  branches 
of  the  federal  government  ?  But  where  are  the  means 
to  be  found  by  the  President,  or  the  Senate,  or  both? 
Their  emoluments  of  office,  it  is  to  be  presumed,  will 
not,  and  without  a  previous  corruption  of  the  House 
of  Representatives  cannot,  more  than  suffice  for  very 
different  purposes;  their  private  fortunes,  as  they 
must  all  be  American  citizens,  cannot  possibly  be 
sources  of  danger.  The  only  means,  then,  which 
they  can  possess,  will  be  in  the  dispensation  of  ap- 
pointments. Is  it  here  that  suspicion  rests  her 
charge?  Sometimes  we  are  told  that  this  fund  of 
corruption  is  to  be  exhausted  by  the  President  in  sub- 
duing the  virtue  of  the  Senate.  Now,  the  fidelity  of 
the  other  House  is  to  be  the  victim.  The  improb- 
ability of  such  a  mercenary  and  perfidious  combina- 
tion of  the  several  members  of  governraent,  standing 
on  as  different  foundations  as  republican  principles 
will  well  admit,  and  at  the  same  time  accountable  to 
the  society  over  which  they  are  placed,  ought  alone  to 
quiet  this  apprehension.  But,  fortunately,  the  Con- 
stitution has  provided  a  still  further  safeguard.  The 
members  of  the  Congress  are  rendered  ineligible  to 
any  civil  offices  that  may  be  created,  or  of  which  the 
emoluments  may  be  increased,  during  the  term  of 
their  election.  No  offices  therefore  can  be  dealt  out 
to  the  existing  members  but  such  as  may  become 
vacant  by  ordinary  casualties:  and  to  suppose  that 
these  would  be  sufficient  to  purchase  the  guardians 
of  the  people,  selected  by  the  people  themselves,  is 


8o  Alexander  Hamilton 

to  renounce  every  rule  by  which  events  ought  to  be 
calculated,  and  to  substitute  an  indiscriminate  and 
unbounded  jealousy,  with  which  all  reasoning  must 
be  vain.  The  sincere  friends  of  liberty,  who  give 
themselves  up  to  the  extravagancies  of  this  passion, 
are  not  aware  of  the  injury  they  do  their  own  cause. 
As  there  is  a  degree  of  depravity  in  mankind  which 
requires  a  certain  degree  of  circumspection  and  dis- 
trust, so  there  are  other  qualities  in  human  nature 
which  justify  a  certain  portion  of  esteem  and  confi- 
dence. Republican  government  presupposes  the 
existence  of  these  qualities  in  a  higher  degree  than 
any  other  form.  Were  the  pictures  which  have  been 
drawn  by  the  political  jealousy  of  some  among  us 
faithful  likenesses  of  the  human  character,  the  in- 
ference would  be,  that  there  is  not  sufficient  virtue 
among  men  for  self-government;  and  that  nothing 
less  than  the  chains  of  despotism  can  restrain  them 
from  destroying  and  devouring  one  another. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Tuesday,  February  19,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LVI 

(HAMILTON    OR    MADISON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

The  second  charge  against  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives is,  that  it  will  be  too  small  to  possess  a  due 
knowledge  of  the  interests  of  its  constituents. 

As  this  objection  evidently  proceeds  from  a  com- 
parison of  the  proposed  number  of  representatives 
with  the  great  extent  of  the  United  States,  the  num- 


The  Federalist  8i 

ber  of  their  inhabitants,  and  the  diversity  of  their 
interests,  without  taking  into  view  at  the  same  time 
the  circumstances  which  will  distinguish  the  Congress 
from  other  legislative  bodies,  the  best  answer  that 
can  be  given  to  it  will  be  a  brief  explanation  of  these 
peculiarities. 

It  is  a  sound  and  important  principle  that  the 
representative  ought  to  be  acquainted  with  the  in- 
terests and  circumstances  of  his  constituents.  But 
this  principle  can  extend  no  further  than  to  those 
circumstances  and  interests  to  which  the  authority 
and  care  of  the  representative  relate.  An  ignorance 
of  a  variety  of  minute  and  particular  objects,  which 
do  not  lie  within  the  compass  of  legislation,  is  con- 
sistent with  every  attribute  necessary  to  a  due  per- 
formance of  the  legislative  trust.  In  determining 
the  extent  of  information  required  in  the  exercise  of 
a  particular  authority,  recourse  then  must  be  had 
to  the  objects  within  the  purview  of  that  authority. 

What  are  to  be  the  objects  of  federal  legislation? 
Those  which  are  of  most  importance,  and  which  seem 
most  to  require  local  knowledge,  are  commerce,  taxa- 
tion, and  the  militia. 

A  proper  regulation  of  commerce  requires  much 
information,  as  has  been  elsewhere  remarked;  but 
as  far  as  this  information  relates  to  the  laws  and 
local  situation  of  each  individual  State,  a  very  few 
representatives  would  be  very  sufficient  vehicles  of 
it  to  the  federal  councils. 

Taxation  will  consist,  in  a  great  measure,  of  duties 
which  will  be  involved  in  the  regulation  of  commerce. 
So  far  the  preceding  remark  is  applicable  to  this 

*      VOL.  XII.— €. 


^T* 


82  Alexander  Hamilton 

object.  As  far  as  it  may  consist  of  internal  collections, 
a  more  diffusive  knowledge  of  the  circumstances  of 
the  State  may  be  necessary.  But  will  not  this  also 
be  possessed  in  sufficient  degree  by  a  very  few  in- 
telligent men,  diffusively  elected  within  the  State? 
Divide  the  largest  State  into  ten  or  twelve  dis- 
tricts, and  it  will  be  found  that  there  will  be  no  pe- 
culiar local  interests  in  either,  which  will  not  be 
within  the  knowledge  of  the  representative  of  the 
district.  Besides  this  source  of  information,  the 
laws  of  the  State,  framed  by  representatives  from 
every  part  of  it,  will  be  almost  of  themselves  a 
sufficient  guide.  In  every  State  there  have  been 
made,  and  must  continue  to  be  made,  regulations  on 
this  subject  which  will,  in  many  cases,  leave  little 
more  to  be  done  by  the  federal  legislature,  than  to 
review  the  different  laws,  and  reduce  them  in  one 
general  act.  A  skilful  individual  in  his  closet,  with 
all  the  local  codes  before  him,  might  compile  a  law 
on  some  subjects  of  taxation  for  the  whole  Union, 
without  any  aid  from  oral  information,  and  it  may 
be  expected  that  whenever  internal  taxes  may  be 
necessary,  and  particularly  in  cases  requiring  uni- 
formity throughout  the  States,  the  more  simple  ob- 
jects will  be  preferred.  To  be  fully  sensible  of  the 
facility  which  will  be  given  to  this  branch  of  federal 
legislation  by  the  assistance  of  the  State  codes,  we 
need  only  suppose  for  a  moment  that  this  or  any 
other  State  were  divided  into  a  number  of  parts, 
each  having  and  exercising  within  itself  a  power  of 
local  legislation.  Is  it  not  evident  that  a  degree  of 
local  information  and  preparatory  labor  would  be 


The  Federalist  S;^ 

found  in  the  several  volumes  of  their  proceedings, 
which  would  very  much  shorten  the  labors  of  the 
general  legislature,  and  render  a  much  smaller  num- 
ber of  members  sufficient  for  it  ? 

The  federal  councils  will  derive  great  advantage 
from  another  circumstance.  The  representatives  of 
each  State  will  not  only  bring  with  them  a  consider- 
able knowledge  of  its  laws,  and  a  local  knowledge  of 
their  respective  districts,  but  will  probably  in  all 
cases  have  been  members,  and  may  even  at  the  very 
time  be  members,  of  the  State  legislature,  where  all 
the  local  information  and  interests  of  the  State  are 
assembled,  and  from  whence  they  may  easily  be 
conveyed  by  a  very  few  hands  into  the  legislature 
of  the  United  States. 

The  observations  made  on  the  subject  of  taxation 
apply  with  greater  force  to  the  case  of  the  militia. ' 
For  however  different  the  rules  of  discipline  may  be 
in  different  States,  they  are  the  same  throughout 
each  particular  State;  and  depend  on  circumstances 
which  can  differ  but  little  in  different  parts  of  the 
same  State. 

The  attentive  reader  will  discern  that  the  reason- 
ing here  used,  to  prove  the  sufficiency  of  a  moderate 
number  of  representatives,  does  not  in  any  respect 
contradict  what  was  urged  on  another  occasion  with 

^  In  the  revised  text  this  sentence  reads :  ' '  With  regard  to  the  regula- 
tion of  the  militia,  there  are  scarcely  any  circumstances  in  reference 
to  which  local  knowledge  can  be  said  to  be  necessary.  The  general 
face  of  the  country,  whether  mountainous  or  level,  most  fit  for  the 
operations  of  infantry  or  cavalry,  is  almost  the  only  consideration  of 
this  nature  that  can  occur.  The  art  of  war  teaches  general  prin- 
ciples of  organization,  movement,  and  discipline,  which  apply  uni- 
versally." 


84  Alexander  Hamilton 

regard  to  the  extensive  information  which  the  re- 
presentatives ought  to  possess,  and  the  time  that 
might  be  necessary  for  acquiring  it.  This  informa- 
tion, so  far  as  it  may  relate  to  local  objects,  is  ren- 
dered necessary  and  difficult,  not  by  a  difference  of 
laws  and  local  circumstances  within  a  single  State, 
but  of  those  among  different  States.  Taking  each 
State  by  itself,  its  laws  are  the  same,  and  its  interests 
but  little  diversified.  A  few  men,  therefore,  will 
possess  all  the  knowledge  requisite  for  a  proper  re- 
presentation of  them.  Were  the  interests  and  affairs 
of  each  individual  State  perfectly  simple  and  uni- 
form, a  knowledge  of  them  in  one  part  would  in- 
volve a  knowledge  of  them  in  every  other,  and  the 
whole  State  might  be  competently  represented  by  a 
single  member  taken  from  any  part  of  it.  On  a 
comparison  of  the  different  States  together,  we  find 
a  great  dissimilarity  in  their  laws,  and  in  many  other 
circumstances  connected  with  the  objects  of  federal 
legislation,  with  all  of  which  the  federal  representa- 
tives ought  to  have  some  acquaintance.  Whilst  a 
few  representatives,  therefore,  from  each  State,  may 
bring  with  them  a  due  knowledge  of  their  own  State, 
every  representative  will  have  much  information 
to  acquire  concerning  all  the  other  States.  The 
changes  of  time,  as  was  formerly  remarked,  on  the 
comparative  situation  of  the  different  States,  will 
have  an  assimilating  effect.  The  effect  of  time  on 
the  internal  affairs  of  the  States,  taken  singly,  will 
be  just  the  contrary.  At  present  some  of  the  States 
are  little  more  than  a  society  of  husbandmen.  Few 
of  them  have  made  much  progress  in  those  branches 


The  Federalist  85 

of  industry  which  give  a  variety  and  complexity  to 
the  affairs  of  a  nation.  These,  however,  will  in  all 
of  them  be  the  fruits  of  a  more  advanced  population ; 
and  will  require,  on  the  part  of  each  State,  a  fuller 
representation.  The  foresight  of  the  convention  has 
accordingly  taken  care  that  the  progress  of  popula- 
tion may  be  accompanied  with  a  proper  increase  of 
the  representative  branch  of  the  government. 

The  experience  of  Great  Britain,  which  presents 
to  mankind  so  many  political  lessons,  both  of  the 
monitory  and  exemplary  kind,  and  which  has  been 
frequently  consulted  in  the  course  of  these  inquiries, 
corroborates  the  result  of  the  reflections  which  we 
have  just  made.  The  number  of  inhabitants  in  the 
two  kingdoms  of  England  and  Scotland  cannot  be 
stated  at  less  than  eight  millions.  The  representa- 
tives of  these  eight  millions  in  the  House  of  Com- 
mons amount  to  five  hundred  and  fifty-eight.  Of 
this  number,  one  ninth  are  elected  by  three  hundred 
and  sixty-four  persons,  and  one  half,  by  five  thou- 
sand seven  hundred  and  twenty-three  persons.'  It 
cannot  be  supposed  that  the  half  thus  elected,  and 
who  do  not  even  reside  among  the  people  at  large, 
can  add  any  thing  either  to  the  security  of  the  people 
against  the  government,  or  to  the  knowledge  of  their 
circumstances  and  interests  in  the  legislative  coun- 
cils. On  the  contrary,  it  is  notorious  that, they  are 
more  frequently  the  representatives  and  instruments 
of  the  executive  magistrate,  than  the  guardians 
and  advocates  of  the  popular  rights.  They  might 
therefore,  with    great  propriety,    be    considered   as 

*  Burgh's  Political  Disquisitions. — Publius. 


86  Alexander  Hamilton 

something  more  than  a  mere  deduction  from  the 
real  representatives  of  the  nation.  We  will,  however, 
consider  them  in  this  light  alone,  and  will  not  extend 
the  deduction  to  a  considerable  number  of  others, 
who  do  not  reside  among  their  constituents,  are  very 
faintly  connected  with  them,  and  have  very  little 
particular  knowledge  of  their  affairs.  With  all  these 
concessions,  two  hundred  and  seventy-nine  persons 
only  will  be  the  depositary  of  the  safety,  interest,  and 
happiness  of  eight  millions — that  is  to  say,  there  will 
be  one  representative  only  to  maintain  the  rights 
and  explain  the  situation  of  twenty-eight  thousand 
six  hundred  and  seventy  constituents,  in  an  assembly 
exposed  to  the  whole  force  of  executive  influence, 
and  extending  its  authority  to  every  object  of  legis- 
lation within  a  nation  whose  affairs  are  in  the  highest 
degree  diversified  and  complicated.  Yet  it  is  very 
certain,  not  only  that  a  valuable  portion  of  freedom 
has  been  preserved  under  all  these  circumstances, 
but  that  the  defects  in  the  British  code  are  charge- 
able, in  a  very  small  proportion,  on  the  ignorance  of 
the  legislature  concerning  the  circumstances  of  the 
people.  Allowing  to  this  case  the  weight  which  is 
due  to  it,  and  comparing  it  with  that  of  the  House 
of  Representatives  as  above  explained,  it  seems  to 
give  the  fullest  assurance,  that  a  representative  for 
every  thirty  thousand  inhabitants  will  render  the  latter 
both  a  safe  and  competent  guardian  of  the  interests 
which  will  be  confided  to  it. 

PUBLIUS. 


The  Federalist  87 

From  the  New  York  Packet,  Tuesday,  February  ig,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.   LVII 

(HAMILTON    OR    MADISON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

The  third  charge  against  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives is,  that  it  will  be  taken  from  that  class  of 
citizens  which  will  have  least  sympathy  with  the 
mass  of  the  people,  and  be  most  likely  to  aim  at  an 
ambitious  sacrifice  of  the  many  to  the  aggrandize- 
ment of  the  few. 

Of  all  the  objections  which  have  been  framed 
against  the  federal  Constitution,  this  is  perhaps  the 
most  extraordinary.  Whilst  the  objection  itself  is 
levelled  against  a  pretended  oligarchy,  the  principle 
of  it  strikes  at  the  very  root  of  republican  govern- 
ment. 

The  aim  of  every  political  constitution  is,  or  ought 
to  be,  first  to  obtain  for  rulers  men  who  possess  most 
wisdom  to  discern,  and  most  virtue  to  pursue,  the 
common  good  of  the  society ;  and  in  the  next  place, 
to  take  the  most  effectual  precautions  for  keeping 
them  virtuous  whilst  they  continue  to  hold  their 
public  trust.  The  elective  mode  of  obtaining  rulers 
is  the  characteristic  policy  of  republican  govern- 
ment. The  means  relied  om  in  this  form  of  govern- 
ment for  preventing  their  degeneracy  are  numerous 
and  various.  The  most  effectual  one,  is  such  a 
limitation  of  the  term  of  appointments  as  will  main- 
tain a  proper  responsibility  to  the  people. 

Let  me  now  ask  what  circumstance  there  is  in  the 
constitution  of  the  House  of  Representatives  that 


88  Alexander  Hamilton 

violates  the  principles  of  republican  government,  or 
favors  the  elevation  of  the  few  on  the  ruins  of  the 
many?  Let  me  ask  whether  every  circumstance  is 
not,  on  the  contrary,  strictly  conformable  to  these 
principles,  and  scrupulously  impartial  to  the  rights 
and  pretensions  of  every  class  and  description  of 
citizens  ? 

Who  are  to  be  the  electors  of  the  federal  repre- 
sentatives? Not  the  rich,  more  than  the  poor;  not 
the  learned,  more  than  the  ignorant ;  not  the  haughty 
heirs  of  distinguished  names,  more  than  the  humble 
sons  of  obscurity  and  unpropitious  fortune.  The 
electors  are  to  be  the  great  body  of  the  people  of  the 
United  States.  They  are  to  be  the  same  who  exer- 
cise the  right  in  every  State  of  electing  the  corre- 
sponding branch  of  the  legislature  of  the  State. 

Who  are  to  be  the  objects  of  popular  choice  ?  Every 
citizen  whose  merit  may  recommend  him  to  the  es- 
teem and  confidence  of  his  country.  No  qualifica- 
tion of  wealth,  of  birth,  of  religious  faith,  or  of  civil 
profession  is  permitted  to  fetter  the  judgment  or 
disappoint  the  inclination  of  the  people. 

If  we  consider  the  situation  of  the  men  on  whom 
the  free  suffrages  of  their  fellow-citizens  may  confer 
the  representative  trust,  we  shall  find  it  involving 
every  security  which  can  be  devised  or  desired  for 
their  fidelity  to  their  constituents. 

In  the  first  place,  as  they  will  have  been  distin- 
guished by  the  preference  of  their  fellow-citizens, 
we  are  to  presume  that  in  general  they  will  be  some- 
what distinguished  also  by  those  qualities  which 
entitle  them  to  it,  and  which  promise  a  sincere  and 


The  Federalist  89 

scrupulous  regard  to  the  nature  of  their  engage- 
ments. 

In  the  second  place,  they  will  enter  into  the  public 
service  under  circumstances  which  cannot  fail  to  pro- 
duce a  temporary  affection  at  least  to  their  constitu- 
ents. There  is  in  every  breast  a  sensibility  to  marks 
of  honor,  of  favor,  of  esteem,  and  of  confidence,  which, 
apart  from  all  considerations  of  interest,  is  some 
pledge  for  grateful  and  benevolent  returns.  In- 
gratitude is  a  common  topic  of  declamation  against 
human  nature;  and  it  must  be  confessed  that  in- 
stances of  it  are  but  too  frequent  and  flagrant,  both 
in  public  and  in  private  life.  But  the  universal  and 
extreme  indignation  which  it  inspires  is  itself  a 
proof  of  the  energy  and  prevalence  of  the  contrary 
sentiment. 

In  the  third  place,  those  ties  which  bind  the  repre- 
sentative to  his  constituents  are  strengthened  by 
motives  of  a  more  selfish  nature.  His  pride  and 
vanity  attach  him  to  a  form  of  government  which 
favors  his  pretensions  and  gives  him  a  share  in  its 
honors  and  distinctions.  Whatever  hopes  or  projects 
might  be  entertained  by  a  few  aspiring  characters, 
it  must  generally  happen  that  a  great  proportion 
of  the  men  deriving  their  advancement  from  their 
influence  with  the  people,  would  have  more  to  hope 
from  a  preservation  of  the  favor,  than  from  in- 
novations in  the  government  subversive  of  the 
authority  of  the  people. 

All  these  securities,  however,  would  be  found  very 
insufficient  without  the  restraint  of  frequent  elec- 
tions.    Hence,  in  the  fourth  place,  the  House  of 


90  Alexander  Hamilton 

Representatives  is  so  constituted  as  to  support  in  the 
members  an  habitual  recollection  of  their  dependence 
on  the  people.  Before  the  sentiments  impressed  on 
their  minds  by  the  mode  of  their  elevation  can  be 
effaced  by  the  exercise  of  power,  they  will  be  com- 
pelled to  anticipate  the  moment  when  their  power  is 
to  cease,  when  their  exercise  of  it  is  to  be  reviewed, 
and  when  they  must  descend  to  the  level  from  which 
they  were  raised;  there  forever  to  remain  unless  a 
faithful  discharge  of  their  trust  shall  have  estab- 
lished their  title  to  a  renewal  of  it. 

I  will  add,  as  a  fifth  circumstance  in  the  situation 
of  the  House  of  Representatives,  restraining  them 
from  oppressive  measures,  that  they  can  make  no 
law  which  will  not  have  its  full  operation  on  them- 
selves and  their  friends,  as  well  as  on  the  great  mass 
of  the  society.  This  has  always  been  deemed  one 
of  the  strongest  bonds  by  which  human  policy  can 
connect  the  rulers  and  the  people  together.  It 
creates  between  them  that  communion  of  interests 
and  sympathy  of  sentiments,  of  which  few  govern- 
ments have  furnished  examples;  but  without  which 
every  government  degenerates  into  tyranny.  If  it 
be  asked,  what  is  to  restrain  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives from  making  legal  discriminations  in  favor 
of  themselves  and  a  particular  class  of  the  society? 
I  answer:  the  genius  of  the  whole  system;  the  na- 
ture of  just  and  constitutional  laws;  and  above  all, 
the  vigilant  and  manly  spirit  which  actuates  the 
people  of  America — a  spirit  which  nourishes  free- 
dom, and  in  return  is  nourished  by  it. 

If  this  spirit  shall  ever  be  so  far  debased  as  to 


The  Federalist  91 

tolerate  a  law  not  obligatory  on  the  legislature,  as 
well  as  on  the  people,  the  people  will  be  prepared  to 
tolerate  any  thing  but  liberty. 

Such  will  be  the  relation  between  the  House  of  Re- 
presentatives and  their  constituents.  Duty,  grati- 
tude, interest,  ambition  itself,  are  the  chords  by 
which  they  will  be  bound  to  fidelity  and  sympathy 
with  the  great  mass  of  the  people.  It  is  possible 
that  these  may  all  be  insufficient  to  control  the 
caprice  and  wickedness  of  man.  But  are  they  not 
all  that  government  will  admit,  and  that  human 
prudence  can  devise  ?  Are  they  not  the  genuine  and 
the  characteristic  means  by  which  republican  gov- 
ernment provides  for  the  liberty  and  happiness  of 
the  people?  Are  they  not  the  identical  means  on 
which  every  State  government  in  the  Union  relies 
for  the  attainment  of  these  important  ends?  What 
then  are  we  to  understand  by  the  objection  which 
this  paper  has  combated?  What  are.  we  to  say  to 
the  men  who  profess  the  most  flaming  zeal  for  repub- 
lican government,  yet  boldly  impeach  the  funda- 
mental principle  of  it ;  who  pretend  to  be  champions 
for  the  right  and  the  capacity  of  the  people  to  choose 
their  own  rulers,  yet  maintain  that  they  will  prefer 
those  only  who  will  immediately  and  infallibly  be- 
tray the  trust  committed  to  them? 

Were  the  objection  to  be  read  by  one  who  had  not 
seen  the  mode  prescribed  by  the  Constitution  for  the 
choice  of  representatives,  he  could  suppose  nothing 
less  than  that  some  unreasonable  qualification  of 
property  was  annexed  to  the  right  of  suffrage;  or 
that  the  right  of  eligibility  was  limited  to  persons 


92  Alexander  Hamilton 

of  particular  families  or  fortunes;  or  at  least  that 
the  mode  prescribed  by  the  State  constitutions  was, 
in  some  respect  or  other,  very  grossly  departed  from. 
We  have  seen  how  far  such  a  supposition  would  err, 
as  to  the  two  first  points.  Nor  would  it,  in  fact,  be 
less  erroneous  as  to  the  last.  The  only  difference 
discoverable  between  the  two  cases  is,  that  each 
representative  of  the  United  States  will  be  elected 
by  five  or  six  thousand  citizens;  whilst  in  the  indi- 
vidual States,  the  election  of  a  representative  is  left 
to  about  as  many  hundreds.  Will  it  be  pretended 
that  this  difference  is  sufficient  to  justify  an  attach- 
ment to  the  State  governments,  and  an  abhorrence 
to  the  federal  government?  If  this  be  the  point  on 
which  the  objection  turns,  it  deserves  to  be  ex- 
amined. 

Is  it  supported  by  reason?  This  cannot  be  said, 
without  maintaining  that  five  or  six  thousand  citizens 
are  less  capable  of  choosing  a  fit  representative,  or 
more  liable  to  be  corrupted  by  an  unfit  one,  than 
five  or  six  hundred.  Reason,  on  the  contrary,  as- 
sures us,  that  as  in  so  great  a  number  a  fit  repre- 
sentative would  be  most  likely  to  be  found,  so  the 
choice  would  be  less  likely  to  be  diverted  from  him 
by  the  intrigues  of  the  ambitious  or  the  bribes  of 
the  rich. 

Is  the  consequence  from  this  doctrine  admissible? 
If  we  say  that  five  or  six  hundred  citizens  are  as 
many  as  can  jointly  exercise  their  right  of  suffrage, 
must  we  not  deprive  the  people  of  the  immediate 
choice  of  their  public  servants,  in  every  instance 
where  the  administration  of  the  government  does  not 


The  Federalist  93 

require  as  many  of  them  as  will  amount  to  one  for 
that  number  of  citizens  ? 

Is  the  doctrine  warranted  by  facts?  It  was  shown 
in  the  last  paper,  that  the  real  representation  in  the 
British  House  of  Commons  very  little  exceeds  the 
proportion  of  one  for  every  thirty  thousand  inhabi- 
tants. Besides  a  variety  of  powerful  causes  not 
existing  here,  and  which  favor  in  that  country  the 
pretensions  of  rank  and  wealth,  no  person  is  eligible 
as  a  representative  of  a  county,  unless  he  possess 
real  estate  of  the  clear  value  of  six  hundred  pounds 
sterling  per  year;  nor  of  a  city  or  borough,  unless  he 
possess  a  like  estate  of  half  that  annual  value.  To 
this  qualification  on  the  part  of  the  county  repre- 
sentatives is  added  another  on  the  part  of  the  county 
electors,  which  restrains  the  right  of  suffrage  to  per- 
sons having  a  freehold  estate  of  the  annual  value  of 
more  than  twenty  pounds  sterling,  according  to  the 
present  rate  of  money.  Notwithstanding  these  un- 
favorable circumstances,  and  notwithstanding  some 
very  unequal  laws  in  the  British  code,  it  cannot  be 
said  that  the  representatives  of  the  nation  have 
elevated  the  few  on  the  ruins  of  the  many. 

But  we  need  not  resort  to  foreign  experience  on 
this  subject.  Our  own  is  explicit  and  decisive.  The 
districts  in  New  Hampshire  in  which  the  senators 
are  chosen  immediately  by  the  people,  are  nearly  as 
large  as  will  be  necessary  for  her  representatives  in 
the  Congress.  Those  of  Massachusetts  are  larger 
than  will  be  necessary  for  that  purpose ;  and  those  of 
New  York  still  more  so.  In  the  last  State  the  mem- 
bers of  Assembly  for  the  cities  and  counties  of  New 


94  Alexander  Hamilton 

York  and  Albany  are  elected  by  very  nearly  as 
many  voters  as  will  be  entitled  to  a  representative 
in  the  Congress,  calculating  on  the  number  of  sixty- 
five  representatives  only.  It  makes  no  difference 
that  in  these  senatorial  districts  and  counties  a  num- 
ber of  representatives  are  voted  for  by  each  elector 
at  the  same  time.  If  the  same  electors  at  the  same 
time  are  capable  of  choosing  four  or  five  representa- 
tives, they  cannot  be  incapable  of  choosing  one. 
Pennsylvania  is  an  additional  example.  Some  of 
her  counties,  which  elect  her  State  representatives, 
are  almost  as  large  as  her  districts  will  be  by  which 
her  federal  representatives  will  be  elected.  The  city 
of  Philadelphia  is  supposed  to  contain  between  fifty 
and  sixty  thousand  souls.  It  will  therefore  form 
nearly  two  districts  for  the  choice  of  federal  repre- 
sentatives. It  forms,  however,  but  one  county,  in 
which  every  elector  votes  for  each  of  its  representa- 
tives in  the  State  legislature.  And  what  may  appear 
to  be  still  more  directly  to  our  purpose,  the  whole 
city  actually  elects  a  single  member  for  the  executive 
council.  This  is  the  case  in  all  the  other  counties  of 
the  State. 

Are  not  these  facts  the  most  satisfactory  proofs  of 
the  fallacy  which  has  been  employed  against  the 
branch  of  the  federal  government  under  considera- 
tion? Has  it  appeared  on  trial  that  the  senators  of 
New  Hampshire,  Massachusetts,  and  New  York,  or 
the  executive  council  of  Pennsylvania,  or  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Assembly  in  the  two  last  States,  have 
betrayed  any  peculiar  disposition  to  sacrifice  the 
many  to  the  few,  or  are  in  any  respect  less  worthy 


The  Federalist  95 

of  their  places  than  the  representatives  and  magis- 
trates appointed  in  other  States  by  very  small  divis- 
sions  of  the  people  ? 

But  there  are  cases  of  a  stronger  complexion  than 
any  which  I  have  yet  quoted.  One  branch  of  the 
legislature  of  Connecticut  is  so  constituted  that  each 
member  of  it  is  elected  by  the  whole  State.  So  is 
the  governor  of  that  State,  of  Massachusetts,  and  of 
this  State,  and  the  president  of  New  Hampshire.  I 
leave  every  man  to  decide  whether  the  result  of  any 
one  of  these  experiments  can  be  said  to  countenance 
a  suspicion,  that  a  diffusive  mode  of  choosing  repre- 
sentatives of  the  people  tends  to  elevate  traitors 
and  to  undermine  the  public  liberty. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Friday ,  February  22,  1788 
WHE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LVIII 

(HAMILTON    OR    MADISON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

The  remaining  charge  against  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives, which  I  am  to  examine,  is  grounded  on  a 
supposition  that  the  number  of  members  will  not  be 
augmented  from  time  to  time,  as  the  progress  of 
population  may  demand. 

It  has  been  admitted,  that  this  objection,  if  well 
supported,  would  have  great  weight.  The  following 
observations  will  show  that,  like  most  other  objec- 
tions against  the  Constitution,  it  can  only  proceed 
from  a  partial  view  of  the  subject,  or  from  a  jealousy 


96  Alexander  Hamilton 

which  discolors  and  disfigures  every  object  which  is 
beheld. 

1.  Those  who  urge  the  objection  seem  not  to  have 
recollected  that  the  federal  Constitution  will  not 
suffer  by  a  comparison  with  the  State  constitutions, 
in  the  security  provided  for  a  gradual  augmentation 
of  the  number  of  representatives.  The  number 
which  is  to  prevail  in  the  first  instance  is  declared  to 
be  temporary.  Its  duration  is  limited  to  the  short 
term  of  three  years.  Within  every  successive  term 
of  ten  years  a  census  of  inhabitants  is  to  be  repeated. 
The  unequivocal  objects  of  these  regulations  are, 
first,  to  readjust,  from  time  to  time,  the  apportion- 
ment of  representatives  to  the  number  of  inhabitants, 
under  the  single  exception  that  each  State  shall  have 
one  representative  at  least ;  secondly,  to  augment  the 
number  of  representatives  at  the  same  periods,  under 
the  sole  limitation  that  the  whole  number  shall  not 
exceed  one  for  every  thirty  thousand  inhabitants. 
If  we  review  the  constitutions  of  the  several  States, 
we  shall  find  that  some  of  them  contain  no  deter- 
minate regulations  on  this  subject,  that  others  cor- 
respond pretty  much  on  this  point  with  the  federal 
Constitution  and  that  the  most  effectual  security  in 
any  of  them  is  resolvable  into  a  mere  directory 
provision. 

2.  As  far  as  experience  has  taken  place  on  this 
subject,  a  gradual  increase  of  representatives  under 
the  State  constitutions  has  at  least  kept  pace  with 
that  of  the  constituents,  and  it  appears  that  the  for- 
mer have  been  as  ready  to  concur  in  such  measures 
as  the  latter  have  been  to  call  for  them. 


The  Federalist  97 

3.  There  is  a  peculiarity  in  the  federal  Constitution 
which  insures  a  watchful  attention  in  a  majority  both 
of  the  people  and  of  their  representatives  to  a  con- 
stitutional augmentation  of  the  latter.  The  peculi- 
arity lies  in  this,  that  one  branch  of  the  legislature  is 
a  representation  of  citizens,  the  other  of  the  States: 
in  the  former,  consequently,  the  larger  States  will 
have  most  weight ;  in  the  latter,  the  advantage  will 
be  in  favor  of  the  smaller  States.  From  this  circum- 
stance it  may  with  certainty  be  inferred  that  the 
larger  States  will  be  strenuous  advocates  for  in- 
creasing the  number  and  weight  of  that  part  of  the 
legislature  in  which  their  influence  predominates. 
And  it  so  happens  that  four  only  of  the  largest  will 
have  a  majority  of  the  whole  votes  in  the  House  of 
Representatives.  Should  the  representatives  or  peo- 
ple, therefore,  of  the  smaller  States  oppose  at  any 
time  a  reasonable  addition  of  members,  a  coalition 
of  a  very  few  States  will  be  sufficient  to  oven-ule  the 
opposition;  a  coalition  which,  notwithstanding  the 
rivalship  and  local  prejudices  which  might  prevent 
it  on  ordinary  occasions,  would  not  fail  to  take  place, 
when  not  merely  prompted  by  common  interest,  but 
justified  by  equity  and  the  principles  of  the  Consti- 
tution. 

It  may  be  alleged,  perhaps,  that  the  Senate  would 
be  prompted  by  like  motives  to  an  adverse  coalition ; 
and  as  their  concurrence  would  be  indispensable,  the 
just  and  constitutional  views  of  the  other  branch 
might  be  defeated.  This  is  the  difficulty  which  has 
probably  created  the  most  serious  apprehensions  in 
the  jealous  friends   of  a  numerous  representation. 


VOL.  XII.- 


98  Alexander  Hamilton 

Fortunately  it  is  among  the  difficulties  which,  exist- 
ing only  in  appearance,  vanish  on  a  close  and 
accurate  inspection.  The  following  reflections  will, 
if  I  mistake  not,  be  admitted  to  be  conclusive  and 
satisfactory  on  this  point. 

Notwithstanding  the  equal  authority  which  will 
subsist  between  the  two  houses  on  all  legislative 
subjects,  except  the  originating  of  money  bills,  it 
cannot  be  doubted  that  the  House,  composed  of  the 
greater  number  of  members,  when  supported  by  the 
more  powerful  States,  and  speaking  the  known  and 
determined  sense  of  a  majority  of  the  people,  will 
have  no  small  advantage  in  a  question  depending  on 
the  comparative  firmness  of  the  two  houses. 

This  advantage  must  be  increased  by  the  con- 
sciousness, felt  by  the  same  side,  of  being  supported 
in  its  demands  by  right,  by  reason,  and  by  the 
Constitution;  and  the  consciousness,  on  the  opposite 
side,  of  contending  against  the  force  of  all  these 
solemn  considerations. 

It  is  farther  to  be  considered,  that  in  the  gradation 
between  the  smallest  and  largest  States,  there  are 
several,  which,  though  most  likely  in  general  to 
arrange  themselves  among  the  former,  are  too  little 
removed  in  extent  and  population  from  the  latter,  to 
second  an  opposition  to  their  just  and  legitimate 
pretensions.  Hence  it  is  by  no  means  certain  that  a 
majority  of  votes,  even  in  the  Senate,  would  be  un- 
friendly to  proper  augmentations  in  the  number  of 
representatives . 

It  will  not  be  looking  too  far  to  add,  that  the 
senators  from  all  the  new  States  may  be  gained  over 


The  Federalist  99 

to  the  just  views  of  the  House  of  Representatives,  by 
an  expedient  too  obvious  to  be  overlooked.  As  these 
States  will,  for  a  great  length  of  time,  advance  in 
population  with  peculiar  rapidity,  they  will  be  in- 
terested in  frequent  reapportionments  of  the  repre- 
sentatives to  the  number  of  inhabitants.  The  large 
States,  therefore,  who  will  prevail  in  the  House  of 
Representatives,  will  have  nothing  to  do  but  to  make 
reapportionments  and  augmentations  mutually  con- 
ditions of  each  other;  and  the  senators  from  all  the 
most  growing  States  will  be  bound  to  contend  for 
the  latter,  by  the  interest  which  their  States  will  feel 
in  the  former. 

These  considerations  seem  to  afford  ample  security 
on  this  subject,  and  ought  alone  to  satisfy  all  the 
doubts  and  fears  which  have  been  indulged  with  regard 
to  it.  Admitting,  however,  that  they  should  all  be 
insufficient  to  subdue  the  unjust  policy  of  the  smaller 
States,  or  their  predominant  influence  in  the  coun- 
cils of  the  Senate,  a  constitutional  and  infallible 
resource  still  remains  with  the  larger  States,  by  which 
they  will  be  able  at  all  times  to  accomplish  their  just 
purposes.  The  House  of  Representatives  cannot 
only  refuse,  but  they  alone  can  propose,  the  supplies 
requisite  for  the  support  of  government.  They,  in  a 
word,  hold  the  purse — that  powerful  instrument  by 
which  we  behold,  in  the  history  of  the  British  Consti- 
tution, an  infant  and  humble  representation  of  the 
people  gradually  enlarging  the  sphere  of  its  activity 
and  importance,  and  finally  reducing,  as  far  as  it 
seems  to  have  wished,  all  the  overgrown  prerogatives 
of  the  other  branches  of  the  government.     This 


loo  Alexander  Hamilton 

power  over  the  purse  may,  in  fact,  be  regarded  as 
the  most  complete  and  effectual  weapon  with  which 
any  constitution  can  arm  the  immediate  representa- 
tives of  the  people,  for  obtaining  a  redress  of  every 
grievance,  and  for  carrying  into  effect  every  just  and 
salutary  measure. 

But  will  not  the  House  of  Representatives  be  as 
much  interested  as  the  Senate  in  maintaining  the 
government  in  its  proper  functions,  and  will  they  not 
therefore  be  unwilling  to  stake  its  existence  or  its 
reputation  on  the  pliancy  of  the  Senate?  Or,  if  such 
a  trial  of  firmness  between  the  two  branches  were 
hazarded,  would  not  the  one  be  as  likely  first  to  yield 
as  the  other?  These  questions  will  create  no  diffi- 
culty with  those  who  reflect  that  in  all  cases  the 
smaller  the  number,  and  the  more  permanent  and 
conspicuous  the  station,  of  men  in  power,  the  stronger 
must  be  the  interest  which  they  will  individually  feel 
in  whatever  concerns  the  government.  Those  who 
represent  the  dignity  of  their  country  in  the  eyes  of 
other  nations,  will  be  particularly  sensible  to  every 
prospect  of  public  danger,  or  of  dishonorable  stagna- 
tion in  public  affairs.  To  those  causes  we  are  to 
ascribe  the  continual  triumph  of  the  British  House  of 
Commons  over  the  other  branches  of  the  govern- 
ment, whenever  the  engine  of  a  money  bill  has  been 
employed.  An  absolute  inflexibility  on  the  side  of 
the  latter,  although  it  could  not  have  failed  to  involve 
every  department  of  the  state  in  the  general  confu- 
sion, has  neither  been  apprehended  nor  experienced. 
The  utmost  degree  of  firmness  that  can  be  displayed 
by  the  federal  Senate  or  President,  will  not  be  more 


The  Federalist  loi 

than  equal  to  a  resistance  in  which  they  will  be  sup- 
ported by  constitutional  and  patriotic  principles. 

In  this  review  of  the  Constitution  of  the  House  of 
Representatives,  I  have  passed  over  the  circum- 
stances of  economy,  which,  in  the  present  state  of 
affairs,  might  have  had  some  effect  in  lessening  the 
temporary  number  of  representatives,  and  a  disre- 
gard of  which  would  probably  have  been  as  rich  a 
theme  of  declamation  against  the  Constitution  as  has 
been  shown  by  the  smallness  of  the  number  proposed. 
I  omit  also  any  remarks  on  the  dif^culty  which  might 
be  found,  under  present  circumstances,  in  engaging 
in  the  federal  service  a  large  number  of  such  char- 
acters as  the  people  will  probably  elect.  One  obser- 
vation, however,  I  must  be  permitted  to  add  on  this 
subject  as  claiming,  in  my  judgment,  a  very  serious 
attention.  It  is,  that  in  all  legislative  assemblies 
the  greater  the  number  composing  them  may  be,  the 
fewer  will  be  the  men  who  will  in  fact  direct  their 
proceedings.  In  the  first  place,  the  more  numerous 
an  assembly  may  be,  of  whatever  characters  com- 
posed, the  greater  is  known  to  be  the  ascendancy  of 
passion  over  reason.  In  the  next  place,  the  larger 
the  number,  the  greater  will  be  the  proportion  of 
members  of  limited  information  and  of  weak  capaci- 
ties. Now,  it  is  precisely  on  characters  of  this  de- 
scription that  the  eloquence  and  address  of  the  few 
are  known  to  act  with  all  their  force.  In  the  ancient 
republics,  where  the  whole  body  of  the  people  as- 
sembled in  person,  a  single  orator,  or  an  artfid 
statesman,  was  generally  seen  to  rule  with  as  com- 
plete a  sway  as  if  a  sceptre  had  been  placed  in  his 


I02  Alexander  Hamilton 

single  hand.  On  the  same  principle,  the  more 
multitudinous  a  representative  assembly  may  be 
rendered,  the  more  it  will  partake  of  the  infirmities 
incident  to  collective  meetings  of  the  people.  Ignor- 
ance will  be  the  dupe  of  cunning,  and  passion  the 
slave  of  sophistry  and  declamation.  The  people  can 
never  err  more  than  in  supposing  that  by  multiplying 
their  representatives  beyond  a  certain  limit,  they 
strengthen  the  barrier  against  the  government  of  a 
few.  Experience  will  forever  admonish  them  that, 
on  the  contrary,  after  securing  a  sufficient  number  for 
the  purposes  of  safety,  of  local  information,  and  of 
diffusive  sympathy  with  the  whole  society,  they  will 
counteract  their  own  views  by  every  addition  to 
their  representatives.  The  countenance  of  the  gov- 
ernment may  become  more  democratic,  but  the  soul 
that  animates  it  will  be  more  oligarchic.  The 
machine  will  be  enlarged,  but  the  fewer,  and  often 
the  more  secret,  will  be  the  springs  by  which  its 
motions  are  directed. 

As  connected  with  the  objection  against  the  num- 
ber of  representatives,  may  properly  be  here  noticed, 
that  which  has  been  suggested  against  the  number 
made  competent  for  legislative  business.  It  has  been 
said  that  more  than  a  majority  ought  to  have  been 
required  for  a  quorum;  and  in  particular  cases,  if 
not  in  all,  more  than  a  majority  of  a  quorum  for  a 
decision.  That  some  advantages  might  have  re- 
sulted from  such  a  precaution,  cannot  be  denied.  It 
might  have  been  an  additional  shield  to  some  particu- 
lar interests,  and  another  obstacle  generally  to  hasty 
and  partial  measures.     But  these  considerations  are 


The  Federalist  103 

outweighed  by  the  inconveniences  in  the  opposite 
scale.  In  all  cases  where  justice  or  the  general  good 
might  require  new  laws  to  be  passed,  or  active 
measures  to  be  pursued,  the  fundamental  principle  of 
free  government  would  be  reversed.  It  would  be  no 
longer  the  majority  that  would  rule:  the  power 
would  be  transferred  to  the  minority.  Were  the 
defensive  privilege  limited  to  particular  cases,  an 
interested  minority  might  take  advantage  of  it  to 
screen  themselves  from  equitable  sacrifices  to  the 
general  weal,  or,  in  particular  emergencies,  to  extort 
unreasonable  indulgences.  Lastly,  it  would  facili- 
tate and  foster  the  baneful  practice  of  secessions;  a 
practice  which  has  shown  itself  even  in  States  where 
a  majority  only  is  required ;  a  practice  subversive  of 
all  the  principles  of  order  and  regular  government ;  a 
practice  which  leads  more  directly  to  public  con- 
vulsions, and  the  ruin  of  popular  governments,  than 
any  other  which  has  yet  been  displayed  among  us. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Friday,  February  22,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LIX 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

The  natural  order  of  the  subject  leads  us  to  con- 
sider, in  this  place,  that  provision  of  the  Constitution 
which  authorizes  the  national  legislature  to  regulate, 
in  the  last  resort,  the  election  of  its  own  members. 

It  is  in  these  words:  '' The  times,  places,  and  man- 
ner of  holding  elections  for  senators  and  representa- 


I04  Alexander  Hamilton 

tives  shall  be  prescribed  in  each  State  by  the  legisla- 
ture thereof;  but  the  Congress  may,  at  any  time,  by 
law,  make  or  alter  such  regulations,  except  as  to  the 
places  of  choosing  senators."  '  This  provision  has 
not  only  been  declaimed  against  by  those  who  con- 
demn the  Constitution  in  the  gross ;  but  it  has  been 
censured  by  those  who  have  objected  with  less  lati- 
tude and  greater  moderation;  and,  in  one  instance, 
it  has  been  thought  exceptionable  by  a  gentleman 
who  has  declared  himself  the  advocate  of  every  other 
part  of  the  system.  i 

I  am  greatly  mistaken,  notwithstanding,  if  there 
be  any  article  in  the  whole  plan  more  completely 
defensible  than  this.  Its  propriety  rests  upon  the 
evidence  of  this  plain  proposition,  that  every  govern- 
ment ought  to  contain  in  itself  the  means  of  its  own 
preservation.  Every  just  reasoner  will,  at  first  sight, 
approve  an  adherence  to  this  rule,  in  the  work  of  the 
convention;  and  will  disapprove  every  deviation 
from  it  which  may  not  appear  to  have  been  dictated 
by  the  necessity  of  incorporating  into  the  work  some 
particular  ingredient,  with  which  a  rigid  conformity 
to  the  rule  was  incompatible.  Even  in  this  case, 
though  he  may  acquiesce  in  the  necessity,  yet  he  will 
not  cease  to  regard  and  to  regret  a  departure  from 
so  fundamental  a  principle,  as  a  portion  of  imperfec- 
tion in  the  system  which  may  prove  the  seed  of 
future  weakness,  and  perhaps  anarchy. 

It  will  not  be  alleged,  that  an  election  law  could 
have  been  framed  and  inserted  in  the  Constitution, 
which  would  have  been  always  applicable  to  every 

'  ist  clause,  4th  section,  of  the  ist  article. — Publius. 


The  Federalist  105 

probable  change  in  the  situation  of  the  country ;  and 
it  will  therefore  not  be  denied,  that  a  discretionary 
power  over  elections  ought  to  exist  somewhere.  It 
will,  I  presume,  be  as  readily  conceded,  that  there 
were  only  three  ways  in  which  this  power  could  have 
been  reasonably  modified  and  disposed :  that  it  must 
either  have  been  lodged  wholly  in  the  national  legis- 
lature, or  wholly  in  the  State  legislatures,  or  pii- 
marily  in  the  latter  and  ultimately  in  the  former. 
The  last  mode  has,  with  reason,  been  preferred  by 
the  convention.  They  have  submitted  the  regula- 
tion of  elections  for  the  federal  government,  in  the 
first  instance,  to  the  local  administrations;  which, 
in  ordinary  cases,  and  when  no  improper  views  pre- 
vail, may  be  both  more  convenient  and  more  satis- 
factory; but  they  have  reserved  to  the  national 
authority  a  right  to  interpose,  whenever  extraordi- 
nary circumstances  might  render  that  interposition 
necessary  to  its  safety. 

Nothing  can  be  more  evident,  than  that  an  exclu- 
sive power  of  regulating  elections  for  the  national 
government,  in  the  hands  of  the  State  legislatures, 
would  leave  the  existence  of  the  Union  entirely  at 
their  mercy.  They  could  at  any  moment  annihilate 
it,  by  neglecting  to  provide  for  the  choice  of  persons 
to  administer  its  affairs.  It  is  to  little  purpose  to 
say,  that  a  neglect  or  omission  of  this  kind  would  not 
be  likely  to  take  place.  The  constitutional  possi- 
bility of  the  thing,  without  an  equivalent  for  the 
risk,  is  an  unanswerable  objection.  Nor  has  any 
satisfactory  reason  been  yet  assigned  for  incurring 
that  risk.     The  extravagant  surmises  of  a  distem- 


io6  Alexander  Hamilton 

pered  jealousy  can  never  be  dignified  with  that 
character.  If  we  are  in  a  humor  to  presume  abuses 
of  power,  it  is  as  fair  to  presume  them  on  the  part  of 
the  State  governments  as  on  the  part  of  the  general 
government.  And  as  it  is  more  consonant  to  the  rules 
of  a  just  theory,  to  trust  the  Union  with  the  care  of 
its  own  existence,  than  to  transfer  that  care  to  any 
other  hands,  if  abuses  of  power  are  to  be  hazarded 
on  the  one  side  or  on  the  other,  it  is  more  rational  to 
hazard  them  where  the  power  would  naturally  be 
placed,  than  where  it  would  unnaturally  be  placed. 

Suppose  an  article  had  been  introduced  into  the 
Constitution,  empowering  the  United  States  to  regu- 
late the  elections  for  the  particular  States,  would 
any  man  have  hesitated  to  condemn  it,  both  as  an 
unwarrantable  transposition  of  power,  and  as  a  pre- 
meditated engine  for  the  destruction  of  the  State 
governments?  The  violation  of  principle,  in  this 
case,  would  have  required  no  comment;  and,  to  an 
unbiased  observer,  it  will  not  be  less  apparent  in  the 
project  of  subjecting  the  existence  of  the  national 
government,  in  a  similar  respect,  to  the  pleasure  of 
the  State  governments.  An  impartial  view  of  the 
matter  cannot  fail  to  result  in  a  conviction,  that 
each,  as  far  as  possible,  ought  to  depend  on  itself  for 
its  own  preservation. 

As  an  objection  to  this  position,  it  may  be  re- 
marked that  the  constitution  of  the  national  Senate 
would  involve,  in  its  full  extent,  the  danger  which  it 
is  suggested  might  flow  from  an  exclusive  power  in 
the  State  legislatures  to  regulate  the  federal  elec- 
tions.    It  may  be  alleged,  that  by  declining  the  ap- 


The  Federalist  107 

pointment  of  senators,  they  might  at  any  time  give 
a  fatal  blow  to  the  Union;  and  from  this  it  may  be 
inferred,  that  as  its  existence  would  be  thus  rendered 
dependent  upon  them  in  so  essential  a  point,  there 
can  be  no  objection  to  intrusting  them  with  it  in  the 
particular  case  under  consideration.  The  interest  of 
each  State,  it  may  be  added,  to  maintain  its  repre- 
sentation in  the  national  councils,  would  be  a  com- 
plete security  against  an  abuse  of  the  trust. 

This  argument,  though  specious,  will  not,  upon 
examination,  be  found  solid.  It  is  certainly  true 
that  the  State  legislatures,  by  forbearing  the  ap- 
pointment of  senators,  may  destroy  the  national 
government.  But  it  will  not  follow  that,  because 
they  have  the  power  to  do  this  in  one  instance,  they 
ought  to  have  it  in  every  other.  There  are  cases 
in  which  the  pernicious  tendency  of  such  a  power 
may  be  far  more  decisive,  without  any  motive 
equally  cogent  with  that  which  must  have  regulated 
the  conduct  of  the  convention  in  respect  to  the 
formation  of  the  Senate,  to  recommend  their  admis- 
sion into  the  system.  So  far  as  that  construction 
may  expose  the  Union  to  the  possibility  of  injury 
from  the  State  legislatures,  it  is  an  evil;  but  it  is  an 
evil  which  could  not  have  been  avoided  without  ex- 
cluding the  States,  in  their  political  capacities, 
wholly  from  a  place  in  the  organization  of  the  na- 
tional government.  If  this  had  been  done,  it  would 
doubtless  have  been  interpreted  into  an  entire  de- 
reliction of  the  federal  principle ;  and  would  certainly 
have  deprived  the  State  governments  of  that  abso- 
lute  safeguard  which   they  will  enjoy  under  this 


io8  Alexander  Hamilton 

provision.  But  however  wise  it  may  have  been  to 
have  submitted  in  this  instance  to  an  inconvenience 
for  the  attainment  of  a  necessary  advantage  or  a 
greater  good,  no  inference  can  be  drawn  from  thence 
to  favor  an  accumulation  of  the  evil,  where  no  neces- 
sity urges,  nor  any  greater  good  invites. 

It  may  be  easily  discerned  also  that  the  national 
government  would  run  a  much  greater  risk  from  a 
power  in  the  State  legislatures  over  the  elections  of 
its  House  of  Representatives,  than  from  their  power 
of  appointing  the  members  of  its  Senate.  The  sena- 
tors are  to  be  chosen  for  the  period  of  six  years; 
there  is  to  be  a  rotation,  by  which  the  seats  of  a  third 
part  of  them  are  to  be  vacated  and  replenished  every 
two  years;  and  no  State  is  to  be  entitled  to  more 
than  two  senators;  a  quorum  of  the  body  is  to  con- 
sist of  sixteen  members.  The  joint  result  of  these 
circumstances  would  be,  that  a  temporary  combina- 
tion of  a  few  States  to  intermit  the  appointment  of 
senators,  could  neither  annul  the  existence  nor  im- 
pair the  activity  of  the  body;  and  it  is  not  from  a 
general  and  permanent  combination  of  the  States 
that  we  can  have  any  thing  to  fear.  The  first  might 
proceed  from  sinister  designs  in  the  leading  members 
of  a  few  of  the  State  legislatures ;  the  last  would  sup- 
pose a  fixed  and  rooted  disaffection  in  the  great  body 
of  the  people,  which  will  either  never  exist  at  all,  or 
will,  in  all  probability,  proceed  from  an  experience 
of  the  inaptitude  of  the  general  government  to  the 
advancement  of  their  happiness — in  which  event  no 
good  citizen  could  desire  its  continuance. 

But  with  regard  to  the  federal  House  of  Repre- 


The  Federalist  109 

sentatives,  there  is  intended  to  be  a  general  election 
of  members  once  in  two  years.  If  the  State  legisla- 
tures were  to  be  invested  with  an  exclusive  power  of 
regulating  these  elections,  every  period  of  making 
them  would  be  a  delicate  crisis  in  the  national  situa- 
tion, which  might  issue  in  a  dissolution  of  the  Union, 
if  the  leaders  of  a  few  of  the  most  important  States 
should  have  entered  into  a  previous  conspiracy  to 
prevent  an  election. 

I  shall  not  deny,  that  there  is  a  degree  of  weight  in 
the  observation,  that  the  interests  of  each  State,  to 
be  represented  in  the  federal  councils,  will  be  a  secur- 
ity against  the  abuse  of  a  power  over  its  elections  in 
the  hands  of  the  State  legislatures.  But  the  security 
will  not  be  considered  as  complete,  by  those  who  at- 
tend to  the  force  of  an  obvious  distinction  between 
the  interest  of  the  people  in  the  public  felicity,  and 
the  interest  of  their  local  rulers  in  the  power  and  con- 
sequence of  their  offices.  The  people  of  America 
may  be  warmly  attached  to  the  government  of  the 
Union,  at  times  when  the  particular  rulers  of  par- 
ticular States,  stimulated  by  the  natural  rivalship  of 
power,  and  by  the  hopes  of  personal  aggrandizement, 
and  supported  by  a  strong  faction  in  each  of  those 
States,  may  be  in  a  very  opposite  temper.  This 
diversity  of  sentiment  between  a  majority  of  the 
people,  and  the  individuals  who  have  the  greatest 
credit  in  their  councils,  is  exemplified  in  some  of  the 
States  at  the  present  moment,  on  the  present  ques- 
tion. The  scheme  of  separate  confederacies,  which 
will  always  multiply  the  chances  of  ambition,  will  be 
a  never-failing  bait  to  all  such  influential  characters 


no  Alexander  Hamilton 

in  the  State  administrations  as  are  capable  of  pre- 
ferring their  own  emolument  and  advancement  to 
the  public  weal.  With  so  effectual  a  weapon  in 
their  hands  as  the  exclusive  power  of  regulating  elec- 
tions for  the  national  government,  a  combination  of 
a  few  such  men,  in  a  few  of  the  most  considerable 
States,  where  the  temptation  will  always  be  the 
strongest,  might  accomplish  the  destruction  of  the 
Union,  by  seizing  the  opportunity  of  some  casual 
dissatisfaction  among  the  people  (and  which  perhaps 
they  may  themselves  have  excited),  to  discontinue 
the  choice  of  members  for  the  federal  House  of  Re- 
presentatives. It  ought  never  to  be  forgotten,  that 
a  firm  union  of  this  country,  under  an  efficient  gov- 
ernment, will  probably  be  an  increasing  object  of 
jealousy  to  more  than  one  nation  of  Europe;  and 
that  enterprises  to  subvert  it  will  sometimes  originate 
in  the  intrigues  of  foreign  powers,  and  will  seldom 
fail  to  be  patronized  and  abetted  by  some  of  them. 
Its  preservation  therefore  ought  in  no  case  that  can 
be  avoided,  to  be  committed  to  the  guardianship  of 
any  but  those  whose  situation  will  uniformly  beget 
an  immediate  interest  in  the  faithful  and  vigilant 
performance  of  the  trust. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Tuesday,  February  26,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No,  LX 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

We  have  seen,  that  an  uncontrollable  power  over 
the  elections  to  the  federal  government  could  not, 


The  Federalist  in 

without  hazard,  be  committed  to  the  State  legisla- 
tures. Let  us  now  see,  what  would  be  the  danger 
on  the  other  side;  that  is,  from  confiding  the  ulti- 
mate right  of  regulating  its  own  elections  to  the 
Union  itself.  It  is  not  pretended,  that  this  right 
would  ever  be  used  for  the  exclusion  of  any  State 
from  its  share  in  the  representation.  The  interest  of 
all  would,  in  this  respect  at  least,  be  the  security  of 
all.  But  it  is  alleged,  that  it  might  be  employed  in 
such  a  manner  as  to  promote  the  election  of  some 
favorite  class  of  men  in  exclusion  of  others,  by  con- 
fining the  places  of  election  to  particular  districts, 
and  rendering  it  impracticable  to  the  citizens  at 
large  to  partake  in  the  choice.  Of  all  chimerical 
suppositions,  this  seems  to  be  the  most  chimerical. 
On  the  one  hand,  no  rational  calculation  of  proba- 
bilities would  lead  us  to  imagine  that  the  disposition 
which  a  conduct  so  violent  and  extraordinary  would 
imply,  could  ever  find  its  way  into  the  national 
councils ;  and  on  the  other,  it  may  be  concluded  with 
certainty,  that  if  so  improper  a  spirit  should  ever 
gain  admittance  into  them,  it  would  display  itself  in 
a  form  altogether  different  and  far  more  decisive. 

The  improbability  of  the  attempt  may  be  satis- 
factorily inferred  from  this  single  reflection,  that  it 
could  never  be  made  without  causing  an  immediate 
revolt  of  the  great  body  of  the  people,  headed  and 
directed  by  the  State  governments.  It  is  not  diffi- 
cult to  conceive  that  this  characteristic  right  of  free- 
dom may,  in  certain  turbulent  and  factious  seasons, 
be  violated,  in  respect  to  a  particular  class  of  citizens, 
by  a  victorious  and  overbearing  majority;  but  that 


112  Alexander  Hamilton 

so  fundamental  a  privilege,  in  a  country  so  situated 
and  enlightened,  should  be  invaded  to  the  prejudice 
of  the  great  mass  of  the  people,  by  the  deliberate 
policy  of  the  government,  without  occasioning  a 
popular  revolution,  is  altogether  inconceivable  and 
incredible. 

In  addition  to  this  general  reflection,  there  are 
considerations  of  a  more  precise  nature,  which  for- 
bid all  apprehension  on  the  subject.  The  dissimi- 
larity in  the  ingredients  which  will  compose  the 
national  government,  and  still  more  in  the  manner  in 
which  they  will  be  brought  into  action  in  its  various 
branches,  must  form  a  powerful  obstacle  to  a  con- 
cert of  views  in  any  partial  scheme  of  elections. 
There  is  sufficient  diversity  in  the  state  of  property, 
in  the  genius,  manners,  and  habits  of  the  people  of 
the  different  parts  of  the  Union,  to  occasion  a  ma- 
terial diversity  of  disposition  in  their  representatives 
towards  the  different  ranks  and  conditions  in  society. 
And  though  an  intimate  intercourse  under  the  same 
government  will  promote  a  gradual  assimilation  in 
some  of  these  respects,  yet  there  are  causes,  as  well 
physical  as  moral,  which  may,  in  a  greater  or  less 
degree,  permanently  nourish  different  propensities 
and  inclinations  in  this  respect.  But  the  circum- 
stance which  will  be  likely  to  have  the  greatest  in- 
fluence in  the  matter,  will  be  the  dissimilar  modes  of 
constituting  the  several  component  parts  of  the  gov- 
ernment. The  House  of  Representatives  being  to 
be  elected  immediately  by  the  people,  the  Senate  by 
the  State  legislatures,  the  President  by  electors 
chosen  for  that  purpose  by  the  people,  there  would 


The  Federalist  113 

be  little  probability  of  a  common  interest  to  cement 
these  different  branches  in  a  predilection  for  any 
particular  class  of  electors. 

As  to  the  Senate,  it  is  impossible  that  any  regula- 
tion of  "  time  and  manner,"  which  is  all  that  is  pro- 
posed to  be  submitted  to  the  national  government 
in  respect  to  that  body,  can  affect  the  spirit  which 
will  direct  the  choice  of  its  members.  The  collective 
sense  of  the  State  legislatures  can  never  be  influ- 
enced by  extraneous  circumstances  of  that  sort;  a 
consideration  which  alone  ought  to  satisfy  us  that 
the  discrimination  apprehended  would  never  be  at- 
tempted. For  what  inducement  could  the  Senate 
have  to  concur  in  a  preference  in  which  itself  would 
not  be  included?  Or  to  what  purpose  would  it  be 
established,  in  reference  to  one  branch  of  the  legis- 
lature, if  it  could  not  be  extended  to  the  other.  The 
composition  of  the  one  would  in  this  case  counteract 
that  of  the  other.  And  we  can  never  suppose  that 
it  would  embrace  the  appointments  to  the  Senate, 
unless  we  can  at  the  same  time  suppose  the  voluntary 
cooperation  of  the  State  legislatures.  If  we  make 
the  latter  supposition,  it  then  becomes  immaterial 
where  the  power  in  question  is  placed — whether  in 
their  hands  or  in  those  of  the  Union. 

But  what  is  to  be  the  object  of  this  capricious  par- 
tiality in  the  national  councils  ?  Is  it  to  be  exercised 
in  a  discrimination  between  the  different  kinds  of 
property,  or  between  the  different  degrees  of  pro- 
perty? Will  it  lean  in  favor  of  the  landed  interest, 
or  the  moneyed  interest,  or  the  mercantile  interest, 
or  the  manufacturing  interest?     Or,  to  speak  in  the 

VOIm  xu.— 8 


114  Alexander  Hamilton 

fashionable  language  of  the  adversaries  to  the  Con- 
stitution, will  it  court  the  elevation  of  ''  the  wealthy 
and  the  well-bom,"  to  the  exclusion  and  debasement 
of  all  the  rest  of  the  society? 

If  this  partiality  is  to  be  exerted  in  favor  of  those 
who  are  concerned  in  any  particular  description  of 
industry  or  property,  I  presume  it  will  readily  be  ad- 
mitted, that  the  competition  for  it  will  lie  between 
landed  men  and  merchants.  And  I  scruple  not  to 
affirm,  that  it  is  infinitely  less  likely  that  either  of 
them  should  gain  an  ascendant  in  the  national 
councils,  than  that  the  one  or  the  other  of  them 
should  predominate  in  all  the  local  councils.  The 
inference  will  be,  that  a  conduct  tending  to  give  an 
undue  preference  to  either  is  much  less  to  be  dreaded 
from  the  former  than  from  the  latter. 

The  several  States  are  in  various  degrees  addicted 
to  agriculture  and  commerce.  In  most,  if  not  all  of 
them,  agriculture  is  predominant.  In  a  few  of  them, 
however,  commerce  nearly  divides  its  empire,  and  in 
most  of  them  has  a  considerable  share  of  influence. 
In  proportion  as  either  prevails,  it  will  be  conveyed 
into  the  national  representation;  and  for  the  very 
reason,  that  this  will  be  an  emanation  from  a  greater 
variety  of  interests,  and  in  much  more  various  pro- 
portions, than  are  to  be  found  in  any  single  State, 
it  will  be  much  less  apt  to  espouse  either  of  them 
with  a  decided  partiality,  than  the  representation  of 
any  single  State. 

In  a  country  consisting  chiefly  of  the  cultivators 
of  land,  where  the  rules  of  an  equal  representation 
obtain,  the  landed  interest  must,  upon  the  whole, 


The  Federalist  1 1 5 

preponderate  in  the  government.  As  long  as  this 
interest  prevails  in  most  of  the  State  legislatures,  so 
long  it  must  maintain  a  correspondent  superiority 
in  the  national  Senate,  which  will  generally  be  a 
faithful  copy  of  the  majorities  of  those  assemblies. 
It  cannot  therefore  be  presumed,  that  a  sacrifice  of 
the  landed  to  the  mercantile  class  will  ever  be  a 
favorite  object  of  this  branch  of  the  federal  legisla- 
ture. In  applying  thus  particularly  to  the  Senate  a 
general  observation  suggested  by  the  situation  of 
the  country,  I  am  governed  by  the  consideration, 
that  the  credulous  votaries  of  State  power  cannot, 
upon  their  own  principles,  suspect,  that  the  State 
legislatures  would  be  warped  from  their  duty  by  any 
external  influence.  But  in  reality  the  same  situa- 
tion must  have  the  same  effect,  in  the  primitive 
composition  at  least  of  the  federal  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives :  an  improper  bias  towards  the  mercantile 
class  is  as  little  to  be  expected  from  this  quarter  as 
from  the  other. 

In  order,  perhaps,  to  give  countenance  to  the  ob- 
jection at  any  rate,  it  may  be  asked,  is  there  not 
danger  of  an  opposite  bias  in  the  national  govern- 
ment, which  may  dispose  it  to  endeavor  to  secure  a 
monopoly  of  the  federal  administration  to  the  landed 
class?  As  there  is  little  likelihood  that  the  supposi- 
tion of  such  a  bias  will  have  any  terrors  for  those  who 
would  be  immediately  injured  by  it,  a  labored  an- 
swer to  this  question  will  be  dispensed  with.  It 
will  be  sufficient  to  remark,  first,  that  for  the  reasons 
elsewhere  assigned,  it  is  less  likely  that  any  decided 
partiality  should  prevail  in  the  councils  of  the  Union 


ii6  Alexander  Hamilton 

than  in  those  of  any  of  its  members.  Secondly,  that 
there  would  be  no  temptation  to  violate  the  Con- 
stitution in  favor  of  the  landed  class,  because  that 
class  would,  in  the  natural  course  of  things,  enjoy  as 
great  a  preponderancy  as  itself  could  desire.  And 
thirdly,  that  men  accustomed  to  investigate  the 
sources  of  public  prosperity  upon  a  large  scale,  must 
be  too  well  convinced  of  the  utility  of  commerce,  to 
be  inclined  to  inflict  upon  it  so  deep  a  wound  as 
would  result  from  the  entire  exclusion  of  those  who 
would  best  understand  its  interest  from  a  share  in 
the  management  of  them.  The  importance  of  com- 
merce, in  the  view  of  revenue  alone,  must  effectually 
guard  it  against  the  enmity  of  a  body  which  would 
be  continually  importuned  in  its  favor,  by  the  urgent 
calls  of  public  necessity. 

I  the  rather  consult  brevity  in  discussing  the  prob- 
ability of  a  preference  founded  upon  discrimina- 
tion between  the  different  kinds  of  industry  and 
property,  because,  as  far  as  I  understand  the  mean- 
ing of  the  objectors,  they  contemplate  a  discrimina- 
tion of  another  kind.  They  appear  to  have  in  view, 
as  the  objects  of  the  preference  with  which  they  en- 
deavor to  alarm  us,  those  whom  they  designate  by 
the  description  of  "the  wealthy  and  the  well-born." 
These,  it  seems,  are  to  be  exalted  to  an  odious  pre- 
eminence over  the  rest  of  their  fellow-citizens.  At 
one  time,  however,  their  elevation  is  to  be  a  necessary 
consequence  of  the  smallness  of  the  representative 
body ;  at  another  time  it  is  to  be  effected  by  depriving 
the  people  at  large  of  the  opportunity  of  exercising 
their  right  of  suffrage  in  the  choice  of  that  body. 


The  Federalist  117 

But  upon  what  principle  is  the  discrimination  of 
the  places  of  election  to  be  made,  in  order  to  answer 
the  purpose  of  the  meditated  preference?  Are  ''the 
wealthy  and  the  well-born,"  as  they  are  called,  con- 
fined to  particular  spots  in  the  several  States  ?  Have 
they,  by  some  miraculous  instinct  or  foresight,  set 
apart  in  each  of  them  a  common  place  of  residence? 
Are  they  only  to  be  met  with  in  the  towns  or  cities? 
Or  are  they,  on  the  contrary,  scattered  over  the 
face  of  the  country  as  avarice  or  chance  may  have 
happened  to  cast  their  own  lot  or  that  of  their  prede- 
cessors? If  the  latter  is  the  case,  (as  every  intelli- 
gent man  knows  it  to  be,')  is  it  not  evident  that  the 
policy  of  confining  the  places  of  election  to  particular 
districts  would  be  as  subversive  of  its  own  aim  as  it 
would  be  exceptionable  on  every  other  account? 
The  truth  is,  that  there  is  no  method  of  securing  to 
the  rich  the  preference  apprehended,  but  by  pre- 
scribing qualifications  of  property  either  for  those 
who  may  elect  or  be  elected.  But  this  forms  no 
part  of  the  power  to  be  conferred  upon  the  national 
government.  Its  authority  would  be  expressly  re- 
stricted to  the  regulation  of  the  times,  the  places,  the 
manner  of  elections.  The  qualifications  of  the  per- 
sons who  may  choose  or  be  chosen,  as  has  been  re- 
marked upon  other  occasions,  are  defined  and  fixed 
in  the  Constitution,  and  are  unalterable  by  the 
legislature. 

Let  it,  however,  be  admitted,  for  argument  sake, 
that  the  expedient  suggested  might  be  successful; 
and  let  it  at  the  same  time  be  equally  taken  for 

^  Particularly  in  the  Southern  States  and  in  this  State. — Publius. 


ii8  Alexander  Hamilton 

granted  that  all  the  scruples  which  a  sense  of  duty 
or  an  apprehension  of  the  danger  of  the  experiment 
might  inspire,  were  overcome  in  the  breasts  of  the 
national  rulers,  still  I  imagine  it  will  hardly  be  pre- 
tended that  they  could  ever  hope  to  carry  such  an 
enterprise  into  execution  without  the  aid  of  a  mili- 
tary force  sufficient  to  subdue  the  resistance  of  the 
great  body  of  the  people.  The  improbability  of  the 
existence  of  a  force  equal  to  that  object  has  been  dis- 
cussed and  demonstrated  in  different  parts  of  these 
papers;  but  that  the  futility  of  the  objection  under 
consideration  may  appear  in  the  strongest  light,  it 
shall  be  conceded  for  a  moment  that  such  a  force 
might  exist,  and  the  national  government  shall  be 
supposed  to  be  in  the  actual  possession  of  it.  What 
will  be  the  conclusion?  With  a  disposition  to  in- 
vade the  essential  rights  of  the  community,  and  with 
the  means  of  gratifying  that  disposition,  is  it  pre- 
sumable that  the  persons  who  were  actuated  by  it 
would  amuse  themselves  in  the  ridiculous  task  of 
fabricating  election  laws  for  securing  a  preference  to 
a  favorite  class  of  men  ?  Would  they  not  be  likely  to 
prefer  a  conduct  better  adapted  to  their  own  imme- 
diate aggrandizement?  Would  they  not  rather 
boldly  resolve  to  perpetuate  themselves  in  office  by 
one  decisive  act  of  usurpation,  than  to  trust  to 
precarious  expedients  which,  in  spite  of  all  the  pre- 
cautions that  might  accompany  them,  might  termi- 
nate in  the  dismission,  disgrace,  and  ruin  of  their 
authors  ?  Would  they  not  fear  that  citizens,  not  less 
tenacious  than  conscious  of  their  rights,  would  flock 
from  the  remote  extremes  of  their  respective  States 


The  Federalist  119 

to  the  places  of  election,  to  overthrow  their  tyrants, 
and  to  substitute  men  who  would  be  disposed  to 
avenge  the  violated  majesty  of  the  people? 

PUBLIUS. 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Tuesday,  February  26,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXI 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

The  more  candid  opposers  of  the  provision  re- 
specting elections,  contained  in  the  plan  of  the  con- 
vention, when  pressed  in  argument,  will  sometimes 
concede  the  propriety  of  that  provision;  with  this 
qualification,  however,  that  it  ought  to  have  been 
accompanied  with  a  declaration,  that  all  elections 
should  be  had  in  the  counties  where  the  electors 
resided.  This,  say  they,  was  a  necessary  precaution 
against  an  abuse  of  the  power.  A  declaration  of  this 
nature  would  certainly  have  been  harmless;  so  far 
as  it  would  have  had  the  effect  of  quieting  apprehen- 
sions, it  might  not  have  been  undesirable.  But  it 
would,  in  fact,  have  afforded  little  or  no  additional 
security  against  the  danger  apprehended;  and  the 
want  of  it  will  never  be  considered,  by  an  impartial 
and  judicious  examiner,  as  a  serious,  still  less  as  an 
insuperable,  objection  to  the  plan.  The  different 
views  taken  of  the  subject  in  the  two  preceding 
papers  must  be  sufficient  to  satisfy  all  dispassionate 
and  discerning  men,  that  if  the  public  liberty  should 
ever  be  the  victim  of  the  ambition  of  the  national 


I20  Alexander  Hamilton 

rulers,  the  power  under  examination,  at  least,  will  be 
guiltless  of  the  sacrifice. 

If  those  who  are  inclined  to  consult  their  jealousy 
only,  would  exercise  it  in  a  careful  inspection  of  the 
several  State  constitutions,  they  would  find  little 
less  room  for  disquietude  and  alarm,  from  the  lati- 
tude which  most  of  them  allow  in  respect  to  elec- 
tions, than  from  the  latitude  which  is  proposed  to 
be  allowed  to  the  national  government  in  the  same 
respect.  A  review  of  their  situation,  in  this  par- 
ticular, would  tend  greatly  to  remove  any  ill  im- 
pressions which  may  remain  in  regard  to  this  matter. 
But  as  that  view  would  lead  into  long  and  tedious 
details,  I  shall  content  myself  with  the  single  exam- 
ple of  the  State  in  which  I  write.  The  constitution 
of  New  York  makes  no  other  provision  for  locality 
of  elections,  than  that  the  members  of  the  Assembly 
shall  be  elected  in  the  counties;  those  of  the  Senate, 
in  the  great  districts  into  which  the  State  is  or  may 
be  divided :  these  at  present  are  four  in  number,  and 
comprehend  each  from  two  to  six  counties.  It  may 
readily  be  perceived  that  it  would  not  be  more  diffi- 
cult to  the  legislature  of  New  York  to  defeat  the 
suffrages  of  the  citizens  of  New  York,  by  confining 
elections  to  particular  places,  than  for  the  legislature 
of  the  United  States  to  defeat  the  suffrages  of  the 
citizens  of  the  Union,  by  the  like  expedient.  Suppose, 
for  instance,  the  city  of  Albany  was  to  be  appointed 
the  sole  place  of  election  for  the  county  and  district 
of  which  it  is  a  part,  would  not  the  inhabitants  of 
that  city  speedily  become  the  only  electors  of  the 
members  both  of  the  Senate  and  Assembly  for  that 


The  Federalist  121 

county  and  district?  Can  we  imagine  that  the 
electors  who  reside  in  the  remote  subdivisions  of  the 
counties  of  Albany,  Saratoga,  Cambridge,  etc.,  or  in 
any  part  of  the  county  of  Montgomery,  would  take 
the  trouble  to  come  to  the  city  of  Albany,  to  give 
their  votes  for  members  of  the  Assembly  or  Senate, 
sooner  than  they  would  repair  to  the  city  of  New 
York,  to  participate  in  the  choice  of  the  members  of 
the  federal  House  of  Representatives?  The  alarm- 
ing indifference  discoverable  in  the  exercise  of  so  in- 
valuable a  privilege  under  the  existing  laws,  which 
afford  every  facility  to  it,  furnishes  a  ready  answer 
to  this  question.  And,  abstracted  from  any  experi- 
ence on  the  subject,  we  can  be  at  no  loss  to  determine, 
that  when  the  place  of  election  is  at  an  inconvenient 
distance  from  the  elector,  the  effect  upon  his  conduct 
will  be  the  same  whether  that  distance  be  twenty 
miles  or  twenty  thousand  miles.  Hence  it  must 
appear,  that  objections  to  the  particular  modifica- 
tion of  the  federal  power  of  regulating  elections  will, 
in  substance,  apply  with  equal  force  to  the  modifica- 
tion of  the  like  power  in  the  constitution  of  this 
State;  and  for  this  reason  it  will  be  impossible  to 
acquit  the  one,  and  to  condemn  the  other.  A  similar 
comparison  would  lead  to  the  same  conclusion  in  re- 
spect to  the  constitutions  of  most  of  the  other  States. 
If  it  should  be  said  that  defects  in  the  State  con- 
stitutions furnish  no  apology  for  those  which  are  to 
be  found  in  the  plan  proposed,  I  answer,  that  as  the 
former  have  never  been  thought  chargeable  with  in- 
attention to  the  security  of  liberty,  where  the  im- 
putations thrown  on  the  latter  can  be  shown  to  be 


122  Alexander  Hamilton 

applicable  to  them  also,  the  presumption  is  that 
they  are  rather  the  cavilling  refinements  of  a  prede- 
termined opposition,  than  the  well-founded  infer- 
ences of  a  candid  research  after  truth.  To  those  who 
are  disposed  to  consider,  as  innocent  omissions  in  the 
State  constitutions,  what  they  regard  as  unpardon- 
able blemishes  in  the  plan  of  the  convention,  nothing 
can  be  said;  or  at  most,  they  can  only  be  asked  to 
assign  some  substantial  reason  why  the  representa- 
tives of  the  people  in  a  single  State  should  be  more 
impregnable  to  the  lust  of  power,  or  other  sinister 
motives,  than  the  representatives  of  the  people  of 
the  United  States?  If  they  cannot  do  this,  they 
ought  at  least  to  prove  to  us  that  it  is  easier  to  sub- 
vert the  liberties  of  three  millions  of  people,  with  the 
advantage  of  local  governments  to  head  their  oppo- 
sition, than  of  two  hundred  thousand  people  who 
are  destitute  of  that  advanatge.  And  in  relation 
to  the  point  immediately  under  consideration,  they 
ought  to  convince  us  that  it  is  less  probable  that  a 
predominant  faction  in  a  single  State  should,  in 
order  to  maintain  its  superiority,  incline  to  a  prefer- 
ence of  a  particular  class  of  electors,  than  that  a 
similar  spirit  should  take  possession  of  the  repre- 
sentatives of  thirteen  States,  spread  over  a  vast 
region,  and  in  several  respects  distinguishable  from 
each  other  by  a  diversity  of  local  circumstances, 
prejudices,  and  interests. 

Hitherto  my  observations  have  only  aimed  at  a  vin- 
dication of  the  provision  in  question,  on  the  ground 
of  theoretic  propriety,  on  that  of  the  danger  of 
placing  the  power  elsewhere,  and  on  that  of  the  safety 


The  Federalist  123 

of  placing  it  in  the  manner  proposed.  But  there 
remains  to  be  mentioned  a  positive  advantage  which 
will  result  from  this  disposition,  and  which  could  not 
as  well  have  been  obtained  from  any  other :  I  allude 
to  the  circumstance  of  uniformity  in  the  time  of 
elections  for  the  federal  House  of  Representatives. 
It  is  more  than  possible  that  this  uniformity  may  be 
found  by  experience  to  be  of  great  importance  to  the 
public  welfare,  both  as  a  security  against  the  per- 
petuation of  the  same  spirit  in  the  body,  and  as  a 
cure  for  the  diseases  of  faction.  If  each  State  may 
choose  its  own  time  of  election,  it  is  possible  there 
may  be  at  least  as  many  different  periods  as  there 
are  months  in  the  year.  The  times  of  election  in 
the  several  States,  as  they  are  now  established  for 
local  purposes,  vary  between  extremes  as  wide  as 
March  and  November.  The  consequence  of  this 
diversity  would  be  that  there  could  never  happen  a 
total  dissolution  or  renovation  of  the;  body  at  one 
time.  If  an  improper  spirit  of  any  kind  should 
happen  to  prevail  in  it,  that  spirit  would  be  apt  to 
infuse  itself  into  the  new  members,  as  they  come 
forward  in  succession.  The  mass  would  be  likely  to 
remain  nearly  the  same,  assimilating  constantly  to 
itself  its  gradual  accretions.  There  is  a  contagion  in 
example  which  few  men  have  sufficient  force  of  mind 
to  resist.  I  am  inclined  to  think  that  treble  the 
duration  in  office,  with  the  condition  of  a  total  dis- 
solution of  the  body  at  the  same  time,  might  be  less 
formidable  to  liberty  than  one  third  of  that  duration 
subject  to  gradual  and  successive  alterations. 

Uniformity  in  the  time  of  elections  seems  not  less 


124  Alexander  Hamilton 

requisite  for  executing  the  idea  of  a  regular  rotation 
in  the  Senate,  and  for  conveniently  assembling  the 
legislature  at  a  stated  period  in  each  year. 

It  may  be  asked,  Why,  then,  could  not  a  time  have 
been  fixed  in  the  Constitution  ?  As  the  most  zealous 
t  adversaries  of  the  plan  of  the  convention  in  this 
State  are,  in  general,  not  less  zealous  admirers  of  the 
constitution  of  the  State,  the  question  may  be  re- 
torted, and  it  may  be  asked,  Why  was  not  a  time 
for  the  like  purpose  fixed  in  the  constitution  of  this 
State?  No  better  answer  can  be  given  than  that 
it  was  a  matter  which  might  safely  be  entrusted  to 
legislative  discretion;  and  that  if  a  time  had  been 
appointed,  it  might,  upon  experiment,  have  been 
found  less  convenient  than  some  other  time.  The 
same  answer  may  be  given  to  the  question  put  on 
the  other  side.  And  it  may  be  added  that  the  sup- 
posed danger  of  a  gradual  change  being  merely  specu- 
lative, it  would  have  been  hardly  advisable  upon 
that  speculation  to  establish,  as  a  fundamental  point, 
what  would  deprive  several  States  of  the  convenience 
of  having  the  elections  for  their  own  governments 
and  for  the  national  government  at  the  same  epochs. 

PUBLIUS. 


For  the  Independent  Journal 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXII 

(HAMILTON    OR    MADISON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

Having  examined  the  constitution  of  the  House 
of    Representatives,    and    answered    such   of     the 


The  Federalist  125 

objections  against  it  as  seemed  to  merit  notice,  I 
enter  next  on  the  examination  of  the  Senate. 

The  heads  into  which  this  member  of  the  govern- 
ment may  be  considered  are:  I.  The  quaHfications  of 
senators;  II.  The  appointment  of  them  by  the  State 
legislatures;  III.  The  equality  of  representation  in 
the  Senate;  IV.  The  number  of  senators,  and  the 
term  for  which  they  are  to  be  elected ;  V.  The  powers 
vested  in  the  Senate. 

I.  The  qualifications  proposed  for  senators,  as  dis- 
tinguished from  those  of  representatives,  consist  in 
a  more  advanced  age  and  a  longer  period  of  citizen- 
ship. A  senator  must  be  thirty  years  of  age  at  least ; 
as  a  representative  must  be  twenty-five.  And  the 
former  must  have  been  a  citizen  nine  years ;  as  seven 
years  are  required  for  the  latter.  The  propriety  of 
these  distinctions  is  explained  by  the  nature  of  the 
senatorial  trust,  which,  requiring  greater  extent  of  in- 
formation and  stability  of  character,  requires  at  the 
same  tim^  that  the  senator  should  have  reached  a 
period  of  life  most  likely  to  supply  these  advantages ; 
and  which,  participating  immediately  in  transac- 
tions with  foreign  nations,  ought  to  be  exercised  by 
none  who  are  not  thoroughly  weaned  from  the  pre- 
possessions and  habits  incident  to  foreign  birth  and 
education.  The  term  of  nine  years  appears  to  be  a 
prudent  mediocrity  between  a  total  exclusion  of 
adopted  citizens,  whose  merits  and  talents  may 
claim  a  share  in  the  public  confidence,  and  an  indis- 
criminate and  hasty  admission  of  them,  which  might 
create  a  channel  for  foreign  influence  on  the  national 
councils. 


126  Alexander  Hamilton 

II.  It  is  equally  unnecessary  to  dilate  on  the  ap- 
pointment of  senators  by  the  State  legislatures. 
Among  the  various  modes  which  might  have  been 
devised  for  constituting  this  branch  of  the  govern- 
ment, that  which  has  been  proposed  by  the  conven- 
tion is  probably  the  most  congenial  with  the  public 
opinion.  It  is  recommended  by  the  double  advan- 
tage of  favoring  a  select  appointment,  and  of  giving 
to  the  State  governments  such  an  agency  in  the 
formation  of  the  federal  government  as  must  secure 
the  authority  of  the  former,  and  may  form  a  con- 
venient link  between  the  two  systems. 

III.  The  equality  of  representation  in  the  Senate 
is  another  point,  which,  being  evidently  the  result 
of  compromise  between  the  opposite  pretensions  of 
the  large  and  the  small  States,  does  not  call  for  much 
discussion.  If  indeed  it  be  right,  that  among  a  peo- 
ple thoroughly  incorporated  into  one  nation,  every 
district  ought  to  have  a  proportional  share  in  the 
government,  and  that  among  independent  and  sover- 
eign States,  bound  together  by  a  simple  league,  the 
parties,  however  unequal  in  size,  ought  to  have  an 
equal  share  in  the  common  councils,  it  does  not  ap- 
pear to  be  without  some  reason  that  in  a  compound 
republic,  partaking  both  of  the  national  and  federal 
character,  the  government  ought  to  be  founded  on 
a  mixture  of  the  principles  of  proportional  and 
equal  representation.  But  it  is  superfluous  to  try, 
by  the  standard  of  theory,  a  part  of  the  Constitution 
which  is  allowed  on  all  hands  to  be  the  result,  not  of 
theory,  but  ''of  a  spirit  of  amity,  and  that  mutual 
deference  and  concession  which  the  peculiarity  of 


The  Federalist  127 

our  political  situation  rendered  indispensable."  A 
common  government,  with  powers  equal  to  its  ob- 
jects, is  called  for  by  the  voice,  and  still  more  loudly 
by  the  political  situation,  of  America.  A  govern- 
ment founded  on  principles  more  consonant  to  the 
wishes  of  the  larger  States,  is  not  likely  to  be  ob- 
tained from  the  smaller  States.  The  only  option, 
then,  for  the  former,  lies  between  the  proposed  gov- 
ernment and  a  government  still  more  objectionable. 
Under  this  alternative,  the  advice  of  prudence  must 
be  to  embrace  the  lesser  evil ;  and,  instead  of  indulg- 
ing a  fruitless  anticipation  of  the  possible  mischiefs 
which  may  ensue,  to  contemplate  rather  the  advan- 
tageous consequences  which  may  qualify  the  sacrifice. 

In  this  spirit  it  may  be  remarked,  that  the  equal 
vote  allowed  to  each  State  is  at  once  a  constitutional 
recognition  of  the  portion  of  sovereignty  remaining 
in  the  individual  States,  and  an  instrument  for 
preserving  that  residuary  sovereignty.  So  far  the 
equality  ought  to  be  no  less  acceptable  to  the  large 
than  to  the  small  States;  since  they  are  not  less 
solicitous  to  guard,  by  every  possible  expedient, 
against  an  improper  consolidation  of  the  States  into 
one  simple  republic. 

Another  advantage  accruing  from  this  ingredient 
in  the  constitution  of  the  Senate  is,  the  additional 
impediment  it  must  prove  against  improper  acts  of 
legislation.  No  law  or  resolution  can  now  be  passed 
without  the  concurrence,  first,  of  a  majority  of  the 
people,  and  then,  of  a  majority  of  the  States. 
It  must  be  acknowledged  that  this  complicated 
check   on   legislation    may   in    some   instances   be 


128  Alexander  Hamilton 

injurious  as  well  as  beneficial ;  and  that  the  peculiar 
defence  which  it  involves  in  favor  of  the  smaller 
States,  would  be  more  rational,  if  any  interests  com- 
mon to  them,  and  distinct  from  those  of  the  other 
States,  would  otherwise  be  exposed  to  peculiar 
danger.  But  as  the  larger  States  will  always  be  able, 
by  their  power  over  the  supplies,  to  defeat  unreason- 
able exertions  of  this  prerogative  of  the  lesser  States, 
and  as  the  facility  and  excess  of  law-making  seem  to 
be  the  diseases  to  which  our  governments  are  most 
liable,  it  is  not  impossible  that  this  part  of  the  Con- 
stitution may  be  more  convenient  in  practice  than 
it  appears  to  many  in  contemplation. 

IV.  The  number  of  senators,  and  the  duration  of 
their  appointment,  come  next  to  be  considered.  In 
order  to  form  an  accurate  judgment  on  both  these 
points,  it  will  be  proper  to  inquire  into  the  purposes 
which,  are  to  be  answered  by  a  senate ;  and  in  order 
to  ascertain  these,  it  will  be  necessary  to  review  the 
inconveniences  which  a  republic  must  suffer  from 
the  want  of  such  an  institution. 

First.  It  is  a  misfortune  incident  to  republican 
government,  though  in  a  less  degree  than  to  other 
governments,  that  those  who  administer  it  may  for- 
get their  obligations  to  their  constituents,  and  prove 
unfaithful  to  their  important  trust.  In  this  point 
of  view,  a  senate,  as  a  second  branch  of  the  legislative 
assembly,  distinct  from,  and  dividing  the  power  with, 
a  first,  must  be  in  all  cases  a  salutary  check  on  the 
government.  It  doubles  the  security  to  the  people, 
by  requiring  the  concurrence  of  two  distinct  bodies 
in  schemes  of  usurpation  or  perfidy,  where  the  am- 


The  Federalist  129 

bition  or  corruption  of  one  would  otherwise  be  suffi- 
cient. This  is  a  precaution  founded  on  such  clear 
principles,  and  now  so  well  understood  in  the  United 
States,  that  it  would  be  more  than  superfluous  to 
enlarge  on  it.  I  will  barely  remark,  that  as  the 
improbability  of  sinister  combinations  will  be  in  pro- 
portion to  the  dissimilarity  in  the  genius  of  the  two 
bodies,  it  must  be  politic  to  distinguish  them  from 
each  other  by  every  circumstance  which  will  consist 
with  a  due  harmony  in  all  proper  measures,  and  with 
the  genuine  principles  of  republican  government. 

Secondly.  The  necessity  of  a  senate  is  not  less 
indicated  by  the  propensity  of  all  single  and  numer- 
ous assemblies  to  yield  to  the  impulse  of  sudden  and 
violent  passions,  and  to  be  seduced  by  factious 
leaders  into  intemperate  and  pernicious  resolutions. 
Examples  on  this  subject  might  be  cited  without 
number;  and  from  proceedings  within  the  United 
States,  as  well  as  from  the  history  of  other  nations. 
But  a  position  that  will  not  be  contradicted,  need  not 
be  proved.  All  that  need  be  remarked  is,  that  a 
body  which  is  to  correct  this  infirmity  ought  itself  to 
be  free  from  it,  and  consequently  ought  to  be  less 
numerous  It  ought,  moreover,  to  possess  great  firm- 
ness, and  consequently  ought  to  hold  its  authority 
by  a  tenure  of  considerable  duration. 

Thirdly.  Another  defect  to  be  supplied  by  a  senate 
lies  in  a  want  of  due  acquaintance  with  the  objects 
and  principles  of  legislation.  It  is  not  possible  that 
an  assembly  of  men  called  for  the  most  part  from 
pursuits  of  a  private  nature,  continued  in  appoint- 
ment for  a  short  time,  and  led  by  no  permanent 

VOL.  XII. — 9. 


130  Alexander  Hamilton 

motive  to  devote  the  intervals  of  public  occupation 
to  a  study  of  the  laws,  the  affairs,  and  the  compre- 
hensive interests  of  their  country,  should,  if  left 
wholly  to  themselves,  escape  a  variety  of  important 
errors  in  the  exercise  of  their  legislative  trust.  It 
may  be  affirmed,  on  the  best  grounds,  that  no  small 
share  of  the  present  embarrassments  of  America  is 
to  be  charged  on  the  blunders  of  our  governments; 
and  that  these  have  proceeded  from  the  heads 
rather  than  the  hearts  of  most  of  the  authors  of 
them.  What  indeed  are  all  the  repealing,  explaining, 
and  amending  laws,  which  fill  and  disgrace  our 
voluminous  codes,  but  so  many  monuments  of  de- 
ficient wisdom;  so  many  impeachments  exhibited  by 
each  succeeding  against  each  preceding  session;  so 
many  admonitions  to  the  people,  of  the  value  of 
those  aids  which  may  be  expected  from  a  well-con- 
stituted senate? 

A  good  government  implies  two  things:  first, 
fidelity  to  the  object  of  government,  which  is  the 
happiness  of  the  people;  secondly,  a  knowledge  of 
the  means  by  which  that  object  can  be  best  attained. 
Some  governments  are  deficient  in  both  these  quali- 
ties; most  governments  are  deficient  in  the  first.  I 
scruple  not  to  assert,  that  in  American  governments 
too  little  attention  has  been  paid  to  the  last.  The 
federal  Constitution  avoids  this  error;  and  what 
merits  particular  notice,  it  provides  for  the  last  in  a 
mode  which  increases  the  security  for  the  first. 

Fourthly.  The  mutability  in  the  public  councils 
arising  from  a  rapid  succession  of  new  members, 
however  qualified  they  may  be,  points  out,  in  the 


The  Federalist  131 

strongest  manner,  the  necessity  of  some  stable  insti- 
tution in  the  government.  Every  new  election  in 
the  States  is  found  to  change  one  half  of  the  repre- 
sentatives. From  this  change  of  men  must  proceed 
a  change  of  opinions ;  and  from  a  change  of  opinions, 
a  change  of  measures.  But  a  continual  change  even 
of  good  measures  is  inconsistent  with  every  rule  of 
prudence  and  every  prospect  of  success.  The  re- 
mark is  verified  in  private  life,  and  becomes  more 
just,  as  well  as  more  important,  in  national  trans- 
actions. 

To  trace  the  mischievous  effects  of  a  mutable 
government,  would  fill  a  volume.  I  will  hint  a  few 
only,  each  of  which  will  be  perceived  to  be  a  source 
of  innumerable  others. 

In  the  first  place,  it  forfeits  the  respect  and  con- 
fidence of  other  nations,  and  all  the  advantages  con- 
nected with  the  national  character.  An  individual 
who  is  observed  to  be  inconstant  to  his  plans,  or  per- 
haps to  carry  on  his  affairs  without  any  plan  at  all,  is 
marked  at  once,  by  all  prudent  people,  as  a  speedy 
victim  to  his  own  unsteadiness  and  folly.  His  more 
friendly  neighbors  may  pity  him,  but  all  will  decline 
to  connect  their  fortunes  with  his ;  and  not  a  few  will 
seize  the  opportunity  of  making  their  fortunes  out  of 
his.  One  nation  is  to  another  what  one  individual  is 
to  another;  with  this  melancholy  distinction  per- 
haps, that  the  former,  with  fewer  of  the  benevolent 
emotions  than  the  latter,  are  under  fewer  restraints 
also  from  taking  undue  advantage  from  the  indis- 
cretions of  each  other.  Every  nation,  consequently, 
whose  affairs  betray  a  want  of  wisdom  and  stability, 


132  Alexander  Hamilton 

may  calculate  on  every  loss  which  can  be  sustained 
from  the  more  systematic  policy  of  their  wiser 
neighbors.  But  the  best  instruction  on  this  subject 
is  unhappily  conveyed  to  America  by  the  example  of 
her  own  situation.  She  finds  that  she  is  held  in  no 
respect  by  her  friends ;  that  she  is  the  derision  of  her 
enemies ;  and  that  she  is  a  prey  to  every  nation  which 
has  an  interest  in  speculating  on  her  fluctuating 
councils  and  embarrassed  affairs. 

The  internal  effects  of  a  mutable  policy  are  still 
more  calamitous.  It  poisons  the  blessing  of  liberty 
itself.  It  will  be  of  little  avail  to  the  people,  that  the 
laws  are  made  by  men  of  their  own  choice,  if  the  laws 
be  so  voluminous  that  they  cannot  be  read,  or  so  in- 
coherent that  they  cannot  be  understood ;  if  they  be 
repealed  or  revised  before  they  are  promulgated,  or 
undergo  such  incessant  changes  that  no  man,  who 
knows  what  the  law  is  to-day,  can  guess  what  it  will 
be  to-morrow.  Law  is  defined  to  be  a  rule  of  action ; 
but  how  can  that  be  a  rule,  which  is  little  known,  and 
less  fixed? 

Another  effect  of  public  instability  is  the  un- 
reasonable advantage  it  gives  to  the  sagacious,  the 
enterprising,  and  the  moneyed  few  over  the  indus- 
trious and  uninformed  mass  of  the  people.  Every 
new  regulation  concerning  commerce  or  revenue,  or 
in  any  manner  affecting  the  value  of  the  different 
species  of  property,  presents  a  new  harvest  to  those 
who  watch  the  change,  and  can  trace  its  conse- 
quences; a  harvest,  reared  not  by  themselves,  but 
by  the  toils  and  cares  of  the  great  body  of  their 
fellow-citizens.     This  is  a  state  of  things  in  which  it 


The  Federalist  133 

may  be  said  with  some  truth  that  laws  are  made  for 
the  few,  not  for  the  many. 

In  another  point  of  view,  great  injury  results  from 
an  unstable  government.  The  want  of  confidence  in 
the  public  councils  damps  every  useful  undertaking, 
the  success  and  profit  of  which  may  depend  on  a  con- 
tinuance of  existing  arrangements.  What  prudent 
merchant  will  hazard  his  fortimes  in  any  new  branch 
of  commerce  when  he  knows  not  but  that  his  plans 
may  be  rendered  unlawful  before  they  can  be  exe- 
cuted? What  farmer  or  manufacturer  will  lay  him- 
self out  for  the  encouragement  given  to  any  particular 
cultivation  or  establishment,  when  he  can  have  no 
assurance  that  his  preparatory  labors  and  advances 
will  not  render  him  a  victim  to  an  inconstant  govern- 
ment ?  In  a  word,  no  great  improvement  or  laudable 
enterprise  can  go  forward  which  requires  the  auspices 
of  a  steady  system  of  national  policy. 

But  the  most  deplorable  effect  of  all  is  that  dimi- 
nution of  attachment  and  reverence  which  steals  into 
the  hearts  of  the  people,  towards  a  political  system 
which  betrays  so  many  marks  of  infirmity,  and  dis- 
appoints so  many  of  their  flattering  hopes.  No 
government,  any  more  than  an  individual,  will  long 
be  respected  without  being  truly  respectable ;  nor  be 
truly  respectable,  without  possessing  a  certain  portion 
of  order  and  stability. 

PUBLIUS. 


134  Alexander  Hamilton 

For  the  Independent  Journal 
WHE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXIII 

(HAMILTON    OR    MADISON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

A  fifth  desideratum,  illustrating  the  utility  of  a 
senate,  is  the  want  of  a  due  sense  of  national  charac- 
ter. Without  a  select  and  stable  member  of  the 
government,  the  esteem  of  foreign  powers  will  not 
only  be  forfeited  by  an  unenlightened  and  variable 
policy,  proceeding  from  the  causes  already  mentioned, 
but  the  national  councils  will  not  possess  that  sensi- 
bility to  the  opinion  of  the  world,  which  is  perhaps 
not  less  necessary  in  order  to  merit,  than  it  is  to 
obtain,  its  respect  and  confidence. 

An  attention  to  the  judgment  of  other  nations  is 
important  to  every  government  for  two  reasons :  the 
one  is,  that,  independently  of  the  merits  of  any 
particular  plan  or  measure,  it  is  desirable,  on  various 
accounts,  that  it  should  appear  to  other  nations  as 
the  offspring  of  a  wise  and  honorable  policy;  the 
second  is,  that  in  doubtful  cases,  particularly  where 
the  national  councils  may  be  warped  by  some  strong 
passion  or  momentary  interest,  the  presumed  or 
known  opinion  of  the  impartial  world  may  be  the  best 
guide  that  can  be  followed.  What  has  not  America 
lost  by  her  want  of  character  with  foreign  nations; 
and  how  many  errors  and  follies  would  she  not  have 
avoided,  if  the  justice  and  propriety  of  her  measures 
had,  in  every  instance,  been  previously  tried  by  the 
light  in  which  they  would  probably  appear  to  the 
unbiased  part  of  mankind  ? 


The  Federalist  135 

Yet  however  requisite  a  sense  of  national  character 
may  be,  it  is  evident  that  it  can  never  be  sufficiently 
possessed  by  a  numerous  and  changeable  body.  It 
can  only  be  found  in  a  number  so  small  that  a  sensible 
degree  of  the  praise  and  blame  of  public  measures 
may  be  the  portion  of  each  individual;  or  in  an 
assembly  so  durably  invested  with  public  trust,  that 
the  pride  and  consequence  of  its  members  may  be 
sensibly  incorporated  with  the  reputation  and  pro- 
sperity of  the  community.  The  half-yearly  repre- 
sentatives of  Rhode  Island  would  probably  have  been 
little  affected  in  their  deliberations  on  the  iniquitous 
measures  of  that  State,  by  arguments  drawn  from  the 
light  in  which  such  measures  would  be  viewed  by 
foreign  nations,  or  even  by  the  sister  States ;  whilst  it 
can  scarcely  be  doubted  that  if  the  concurrence  of  a 
select  and  stable  body  had  been  necessary,  a  regard 
to  national  character  alone  would  have  prevented  the 
calamities  under  which  that  misguided  people  is  now 
laboring. 

I  add,  as  a  sixth  defect,  the  want,  in  some  import- 
ant cases,  of  a  due  responsibility  in  the  government 
to  the  people,  arising  from  that  frequency  of  elections 
which  in  other  cases  produces  this  responsibility. 
This  remark  will,  perhaps,  appear  not  only  new,  but 
paradoxical.  It  must  nevertheless  be  acknowledged, 
when  explained,  to  be  as  undeniable  as  it  is  important. 

Responsibility,  in  order  to  be  reasonable,  must  be 
limited  to  objects  within  the  power  of  the  responsible 
party,  and  in  order  to  be  effectual,  must  relate  to 
operations  of  that  power,  of  which  a  ready  and  proper 
judgment  can  be  formed  by  the  constituents.     The 


136  Alexander  Hamilton 

objects  of  government  may  be  divided  into  two  gen- 
eral classes:  the  one  depending  on  measures  which 
have  singly  an  immediate  and  sensible  operation ;  the 
other  depending  on  a  succession  of  well-chosen  and 
well-connected  measures,  which  have  a  gradual  and 
perhaps  imobserved  operation.  The  importance  of 
the  latter  description  to  the  collective  and  perm  anent 
welfare  of  every  country,  needs  no  explanation.  And 
yet  it  is  evident  that  an  assembly  elected  for  so  short 
a  term  as  to  be  unable  to  provide  more  than  one  or 
two  links  in  a  chain  of  measures,  on  which  the  general 
welfare  may  essentially  depend,  ought  not  to  be 
answerable  for  the  final  restilt,  any  more  than  a 
steward  or  tenant,  engaged  for  one  year,  could  be 
justly  made  to  answer  for  places  or  improvements 
which  could  not  be  accomplished  in  less  than  half  a 
dozen  years.  Nor  is  it  possible  for  the  people  to 
estimate  the  share  of  influence  which  their  annual 
assemblies  may  respectively  have  on  events  resulting 
from  the  mixed  transactions  of  several  years.  It  is 
sufficiently  difficult  to  preserve  a  personal  responsi- 
bility in  the  members  of  a  numerous  body,  for  such 
acts  of  the  body  as  have  an  immediate,  detached,  and 
palpable  operation  on  its  constituents. 

The  proper  remedy  for  this  defect  must  be  an 
additional  body  in  the  legislative  department,  which, 
having  sufficient  permanency  to  provide  for  such 
objects  as  require  a  continued  attention,  and  a  train 
of  measures,  may  be  justly  and  effectually  answerable 
for  the  attainment  of  those  objects. 

Thus  far  I  have  considered  the  circumstances 
which  point  out  the  necessity  of  a  well-constructed 


The  Federalist  137 

Senate  only  as  they  relate  to  the  representatives  of 
the  people.  To  a  people  as  little  blinded  by  prejudice 
or  corrupted  by  flattery  as  those  whom  I  address,  I 
shall  not  scruple  to  add,  that  such  an  institution  may 
be  sometimes  necessary  as  a  defence  to  the  people 
against  their  own  temporary  errors  and  delusions. 
As  the  cool  and  deliberate  sense  of  the  community 
ought,  in  all  governments,  and  actually  will,  in  all 
free  governments,  ultimately  prevail  over  the  views 
of  its  rulers;  so  there  are  particular  moments  in 
public  affairs  when  the  people,  stimulated  by  some 
irregular  passion,  or  some  illicit  advantage,  or  misled 
by  the  artful  misrepresentations  of  interested  men, 
may  call  for  measures  which  they  themselves  will 
afterwards  be  the  most  ready  to  lament  and  con- 
demn. In  these  critical  moments,  how  salutary  will 
be  the  interference  of  some  temperate  and  respectable 
body  of  citizens,  in  order  to  check  the  misguided 
career,  and  to  suspend  the  blow  meditated  by  the 
people  against  themselves,  until  reason,  justice,  and 
truth  can  regain  their  authority  over  the  public 
mind  ?  What  bitter  anguish  would  not  the  people  of 
Athens  have  often  escaped  if  their  government  had 
contained  so  provident  a  safeguard  against  the 
tyranny  of  their  own  passions?  Popular  liberty 
might  then  have  escaped  the  indelible  reproach  of 
decreeing  to  the  same  citizens  the  hemlock  on  one 
day  and  statues  on  the  next. 

It  may  be  suggested,  that  a  people  spread  over  an 
extensive  region  cannot,  like  the  crowded  inhabitants 
of  a  small  district,  be  subject  to  the  infection  of  vio- 
lent passions,  or  to  the  danger  of  combining  in  pursuit 


138  The  Federalist 

of  unjust  measures.  I  am  far  from  denying  that  this 
is  a  distinction  of  pecuHar  importance.  I  have,  on 
the  contrary,  endeavored  in  a  former  paper  to  show, 
that  it  is  one  of  the  principal  recommendations  of  a 
confederated  republic.  At  the  same  time,  this  ad- 
vantage ought  not  to  be  considered  as  superseding 
the  use  of  auxiliary  precautions.  It  may  even  be 
remarked,  that  the  same  extended  situation,  which 
will  exempt  the  people  of  America  from  some  of  the 
dangers  incident  to  lesser  republics,  will  expose  them 
to  the  inconveniency  of  remaining  for  a  longer  time 
under  the  influence  of  those  misrepresentations  which 
the  combined  industry  of  interested  men  may  suc- 
ceed in  distributing  among  them. 

It  adds  no  small  weight  to  all  these  considerations, 
to  recollect  that  history  informs  us  of  no  long-lived 
republic  which  had  not  a  senate.  Sparta,  Rome,  and 
Carthage  are,  in  fact,  the  only  states  to  whom  that 
character  can  be  applied.  In  each  of  the  two  first 
there  was  a  senate  for  life.  The  constitution  of  the 
senate  in  the  last  is  less  known.  Circumstantial  evi- 
dence makes  it  probable  that  it  was  not  different  in 
this  particular  from  the  two  others.  It  is  at  least 
certain,  that  it  had  some  quality  or  other  which  ren- 
dered it  an  anchor  against  popular  fluctuation;  and 
that  a  smaller  council,  drawn  out  of  the  senate,  was 
appointed  not  only  for  life,  but  filled  up  vacancies 
itself.  These  examples,  though  as  unfit  for  the  imi- 
tation, as  they  are  repugnant  to  the  genius,  of 
America,  are,  notwithstanding,  when  compared  with 
the  fugitive  and  turbulent  existence  of  other  ancient 
republics,  very  instructive  proofs  of  the  necessity  of 


The  Federalist  139 

some  institution  that  will  blend  stability  with  liberty. 
I  am  not  unaware  of  the  circumstances  which  dis- 
tinguish the  American  from  other  popular  govern- 
ments, as  well  ancient  as  modem;  and  which  render 
extreme  circumspection  necessary,  in  reasoning  from 
the  one  case  to  the  other.  But  after  allowing  due 
weight  to  this  consideration,  it  may  still  be  main- 
tained, that  there  are  many  points  of  similitude  which 
render  these  examples  not  unworthy  of  our  attention. 
Many  of  the  defects,  as  we  have  seen,  which  can  only 
be  supplied  by  a  senatorial  institution,  are  common 
to  a  numerous  assembly  frequently  elected  by  the 
people,  and  to  the  people  themselves.  There  are 
others  peculiar  to  the  former,  which  require  the  con- 
trol of  such  an  institution.  The  people  can  never 
wilfully  betray  their  own  interests;  but  they  may 
possibly  be  betrayed  by  the  representatives  of  the 
people;  and  the  danger  will  be  evidently  greater 
where  the  whole  legislative  trust  is  lodged  in  the 
hands  of  one  body  of  men,  than  where  the  concur- 
rence of  separate  and  dissimilar  bodies  is  required  in 
every  public  act. 

The  difference  most  relied  on,  between  the  Ameri- 
can and  other  republics,  consists  in  the  principle  of 
representation;  which  is  the  pivot  on  which  the 
former  move,  and  which  is  supposed  to  have  been 
unknown  to  the  latter,  or  at  least  to  the  ancient  part 
of  them.  The  use  which  has  been  made  of  this  differ- 
ence, in  reasonings  contained  in  former  papers,  will 
have  shown  that  I  am  disposed  neither  to  deny  its 
existence  nor  to  undervalue  its  importance.  I  feel 
the  less  restraint,  therefore,  in  observing  that  the 


HO  Alexander  Hamilton 

position  concerning  the  ignorance  of  the  ancient  gov- 
ernments on  the  subject  of  representation,  is  by  no 
means  precisely  true  in  the  latitude  commonly  given 
to  it.  Without  entering  into  a  disquisition  which 
here  would  be  misplaced,  I  will  refer  to  a  few  known 
facts,  in  support  of  what  I  advance. 

In  the  most  pure  democracies  of  Greece,  many  of 
the  executive  functions  were  performed,  not  by  the 
people  themselves,  but  by  officers  elected  by  the 
people,  and  representing  the  people  in  their  executive 
capacity.  , 

Prior  to  the  reform  of  Solon,  Athens  was  governed 
by  nine  Archons,  annually  elected  by  the  people  at 
large.  The  degree  of  power  delegated  to  them  seems 
to  be  left  in  great  obscurity.  Subsequent  to  that 
period,  we  find  an  assembly,  first  of  four,  and  after- 
wards of  six  hundred  members,  annually  elected  by 
the  people;  and  partially  representing  them  in  their 
legislative  capacity,  since  they  were  not  only  asso- 
ciated with  the  people  in  the  function  of  making  laws, 
but  had  the  exclusive  right  of  originating  legislative 
propositions  to  the  people.  The  senate  of  Carthage, 
also,  whatever  might  be  its  power,  or  the  duration  of 
its  appointment,  appears  to  have  been  elective  by  the 
suffrages  of  the  people.  Similar  instances  might  be 
traced  in  most,  if  not  all  the  popular  governments  of 
antiquity. 

Lastly,  in  Sparta  we  meet  with  the  Ephori,  and  in 
Rome  with  the  Tribunes;  two  bodies,  small  indeed 
in  numbers,  but  annually  elected  by  the  whole  body  of 
the  people,  and  considered  as  the  representatives  of  the 
people,  almost  in  their  plenipotentiary  capacity.    The 


The  Federalist  141 

Cosmi  of  Crete  were  also  annually  elected  by  the  people, 
and  have  been  considered  by  some  authors  as  an 
institution  analogous  to  those  of  Sparta  and  Rome, 
with  this  difference  only,  that  in  the  election  of  that 
representative  body  the  right  of  suffrage  was  com- 
municated to  a  part  only  of  the  people. 

From  these  facts,  to  which  many  others  might  be 
added,  it  is  clear  that  the  principle  of  representation 
was  neither  unknown  to  the  ancients  nor  wholly 
overlooked  in  their  political  constitutions.  The  true 
distinction  between  these  and  the  American  govern- 
ments, lies  in  the  total  exclusion  of  the  people,  in  their 
collective  capacity,  from  any  share  in  the  latter,  and 
not  in  the  total  exclusion  of  the  representatives  of  the 
people  from  the  administration  of  the  former.  The 
distinction,  however,  thus  qualified,  must  be  ad- 
mitted to  leave  a  most  advantageous  superiority  in 
favor  of  the  United  States.  But  to  insure  to  this 
advantage  its  full  effect,  we  must  be  careful  not  to 
separate  it  from  the  other  advantage,  of  an  extensive 
territory.  For  it  cannot  be  believed,  that  any  form 
of  representative  government  could  have  succeeded 
within  the  narrow  limits  occupied  by  the  democracies 
of  Greece. 

In  answer  to  all  these  arguments,  suggested  by 
reason,  illustrated  by  examples,  and  enforced  by  our 
own  experience,  the  jealous  adversary  of  the  Consti- 
tution will  probably  content  himself  with  repeating, 
that  a  senate  appointed  not  immediately  by  the  peo- 
ple, and  for  the  term  of  six  years,  must  gradually 
acquire  a  dangerous  preeminence  in  the  government, 
and  finally  transform  it  into  a  tyrannical  aristocracy. 


142  Alexander  Hamilton 

To  this  general  answer,  the  general  reply  ought  to 
be  sufficient,  that  liberty  may  be  endangered  by  the 
abuses  of  liberty  as  well  as  by  the  abuses  of  power; 
that  there  are  numerous  instances  of  the  former  as 
well  as  of  the  latter ;  and  that  the  former,  rather  than 
the  latter,  are  apparently  most  to  be  apprehended  by 
the  United  States.  But  a  more  particular  reply  may 
be  given. 

Before  such  a  revolution  can  be  effected,  the 
Senate,  it  is  to  be  observed,  must  in  the  first  place 
corrupt  itself;  must  next  corrupt  the  State  legisla- 
tures; must  then  corrupt  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives; and  must  finally  corrupt  the  people  at  large. 
It  is  evident  that  the  Senate  must  be  first  corrupted 
before  it  can  attempt  an  establishment  of  tyranny. 
Without  corrupting  the  State  legislatures,  it  cannot 
prosecute  the  attempt,  because  the  periodical  change 
of  members  would  otherwise  regenerate  the  whole 
body.  Without  exerting  the  means  of  corruption 
with  equal  success  on  the  House  of  Representatives, 
the  opposition  of  that  coequal  branch  of  the  govern- 
ment would  inevitably  defeat  the  attempt;  and 
without  corrupting  the  people  themselves,  a  succes- 
sion of  new  representatives  would  speedily  restore  all 
things  to  their  pristine  order.  Is  there  any  man  who 
can  seriously  persuade  himself  that  the  proposed 
Senate  can,  by  any  possible  means  within  the  com- 
pass of  human  address,  arrive  at  the  object  of  a  law- 
less ambition,  through  all  these  obstructions  ? 

If  reason  condemns  the  suspicion,  the  same  sen- 
tence is  pronounced  by  experience.  The  constitution 
of  Maryland  furnishes  the  most  apposite  example. 


The  Federalist  i43 

The  Senate  of  that  State  is  elected,  as  the  federal 
Senate  will  be,  indirectly  by  the  people,  and  for  a 
term  less  by  one  year  only  than  the  federal  Senate. 
It  is  distinguished,  also,  by  the  remarkable  preroga- 
tive of  filling  up  its  own  vacancies  within  the  term 
of  its  appointment,  and,  at  the  same  time,  is  not 
under  the  control  of  any  such  rotation  as  is  provided 
for  the  federal  Senate.  There  are  some  other  lesser 
distinctions,  which  would  expose  the  former  to  color- 
able objections,  that  do  not  lie  against  the  latter. 
If  the  federal  Senate,  therefore,  really  contained  the 
danger  which  has  been  so  loudly  proclaimed,  some 
symptoms  at  least  of  a  like  danger  ought  by  this  time 
to  have  been  betrayed  by  the  Senate  of  Maryland, 
but  no  such  symptoms  have  appeared.  On  the  con- 
trary, the  jealousies  at  first  entertained  by  men  of 
the  same  description  with  those  who  view  with  terror 
the  correspondent  part  of  the  federal  Constitution, 
have  been  gradually  extinguished  by  the  progress  of 
the  experiment;  and  the  Maryland  constitution  is 
daily  deriving,  from  the  salutary  operation  of  this 
part  of  it,  a  reputation  in  which  it  will  probably  not 
be  rivalled  by  that  of  any  State  in  the  Union. 

But  if  anything  could  silence  the  jealousies  on  this 
subject,  it  ought  to  be  the  British  example.  The 
Senate  there,  instead  of  being  elected  for  a  term  of  six 
years,  and  of  being  unconfined  to  particular  families 
or  fortunes,  is  an  hereditary  assembly  of  opulent 
nobles.  The  House  of  Representatives,  instead  of 
being  elected  for  two  years,  and  by  the  whole  body 
of  the  people,  is  elected  for  seven  years,  and,  in  very 
great  proportion,  by  a  very  small  proportion  of  the 


144  Alexander  Hamilton 

people.  Here,  unquestionably,  ought  to  be  seen  in 
full  display  the  aristocratic  usurpations  and  tyranny 
which  are  at  some  future  period  to  be  exemplified  in 
the  United  States.  Unfortunately,  however,  for  the 
anti-federal  argument,  the  British  history  informs  us 
that  this  hereditary  assembly  has  not  been  able  to 
defend  itself  against  the  continual  encroachments  of 
the  House  of  Representatives ;  and  that  it  no  sooner 
lost  the  support  of  the  monarch,  than  it  was  actually 
crushed  by  the  weight  of  the  popular  branch. 

As  far  as  antiquity  can  instruct  us  on  this  subject, 
its  examples  support  the  reasoning  which  we  have 
employed.  In  Sparta,  the  Ephori,  the  annual  repre- 
sentatives of  the  people,  were  found  an  overmatch 
for  the  senate  for  life,  continually  gained  on  its  au- 
thority and  finally  drew  all  power  into  their  own 
hands.  The  Tribunes  of  Rome,  who  were  the  repre- 
sentatives of  the  people,  prevailed,  ?t  is  well  known, 
in  almost  every  contest  with  the  senate  for  life,  and 
m  the  end  gained  the  most  complete  triumph  over  it. 
The  fact  is  the  more  remarkable,  as  unanimity  was 
required  in  every  act  of  the  Tribunes,  even  after  their 
number  was  augmented  to  ten.  It  proves  the  irre- 
sistible force  possessed  by  that  branch  of  a  free 
government,  which  has  the  people  on  its  side.  To 
these  examples  might  be  added  that  of  Carthage, 
whose  senate,  according  to  the  testimony  of  Polybius, 
instead  of  drawing  all  power  into  its  vortex,  had,  at 
the  commencement  of  the  second  Punic  War,  lost 
almost  the  whole  of  its  original  portion. 

Besides  the  conclusive  evidence  resulting  from  this 
assemblage  of  facts,   that  the  federal  Senate  will 


The  Federalist  i45 

never  be  able  to  transform  itself,  by  gradual  usurpa- 
tions, into  an  independent  and  aristocratic  body,  we 
are  warranted  in  believing,  that  if  such  a  revolution 
should  ever  happen  from  causes  which  the  foresight 
of  man  cannot  guard  against,  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives, with  the  people  on  their  side,  will  at  all 
times  be  able  to  bring  back  the  Constitution  to  its 
primitive  form  and  principles.  Against  the  force  of 
the  immediate  representatives  of  the  people,  nothing 
will  be  able  to  maintain  even  the  constitutional 
authority  of  the  Senate,  but  such  a  display  of  en- 
lightened policy,  and  attachment  to  the  public  good, 
as  will  divide  with  that  branch  of  the  legislature  the 
affections  and  support  of  the  entire  body  of  the  people 
themselves. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Friday,  March  7,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXIV 

(JAY) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

It  is  a  just  and  not  a  new  observation,  that  enemies 
to  particular  persons,  and  opponents  to  particular 
measures,  seldom  confine  their  censures  to  such 
things  only  in  either  as  are  worthy  of  blame.  Unless 
on  this  principle,  it  is  difficult  to  explain  the  motives 
of  their  conduct,  who  condemn  the  proposed  Consti- 
tution in  the  aggregate  and  treat  with  severity  some 
of  the  most  unexceptionable  articles  in  it. 

The  second  section  gives  power  to  the  President, 
''hy  and  with  the  advice  and  consent  of  the  Senate,  to 

VOL.  XII.— 10. 


146  Alexander  Hamilton 

make  treaties,  provided  two  thirds  of  the  sena- 
tors  PRESENT    CONCUR.'* 

The  power  of  making  treaties  is  an  important  one, 
especially  as  it  relates  to  war,  peace,  and  commerce; 
and  it  should  not  be  delegated  but  in  such  a  mode, 
and  with  such  precautions,  as  will  afford  the  highest 
security  that  it  will  be  exercised  by  men  the  best 
qualified  for  the  purpose,  and  in  the  manner  most 
conducive  to  the  public  good.  The  convention  ap- 
pears to  have  been  attentive  to  both  these  points: 
they  have  directed  the  President  to  be  chosen  by 
select  bodies  of  electors,  to  be  deputed  by  the  people 
for  that  express  purpose ;  and  they  have  committed 
the  appointment  of  senators  to  the  State  legislatures. 
This  mode  has,  in  such  cases,  vastly  the  advantage  of 
elections  by  the  people  in  their  collective  capacity, 
where  the  activity  of  party  zeal,  taking  advantage 
of  the  supineness,  the  ignorance,  and  the  hopes  and 
fears  of  the  unwary  and  interested,  often  places  men 
in  office  by  the  votes  of  a  small  proportion  of  the 
electors. 

As  the  select  assemblies  for  choosing  the  President, 
as  well  as  the  State  legislatures  who  appoint  the 
senators,  will  in  general  be  composed  of  the  most 
enlightened  and  respectable  citizens,  there  is  reason 
to  presume  that  their  attention  and  their  votes  will 
be  directed  to  those  men  only  who  have  become  the 
most  distinguished  by  their  abilities  and  virtue,  and 
in  whom  the  people  perceive  just  grounds  for  con- 
fidence. The  Constitution  manifests  very  particular 
attention  to  this  object.  By  excluding  men  under 
thirty-five  from  the  first  office,   and  those  under 


The  Federalist  147 

thirty  from  the  second,  it  confines  the  electors  to  men 
of  whom  the  people  have  had  time  to  form  a  judg- 
ment, and  with  respect  to  whom  they  will  not  be 
liable  to  be  deceived  by  those  brilliant  appearances 
of  genius  and  patriotism,  which,  like  transient 
meteors,  sometimes  mislead  as  well  as  dazzle.  If 
the  observation  be  well  founded,  that  wise  kings  will 
always  be  served  by  able  ministers,  it  is  fair  to  argue, 
that  as  an  assembly  of  select  electors  possess,  in  a 
greater  degree  than  kings,  the  means  of  extensive 
and  accurate  information  relative  to  men  and 
characters,  so  will  their  appointments  bear  at  least 
equal  marks  of  discretion  and  discernment.  The 
inference  which  naturally  results  from  these  con- 
siderations is  this,  that  the  President  and  senators  so 
chosen  will  always  be  of  the  number  of  those  who 
best  understand  our  national  interests,  whether  con- 
sidered in  relation  to  the  several  States  or  to  foreign 
nations,  who  are  best  able  to  promote  those  interests, 
and  whose  reputation  for  integrity  inspires  and 
merits  confidence.  With  such  men  the  power  of 
making  treaties  may  be  safely  lodged. 

Although  the  absolute  necessity  of  system,  in  the 
conduct  of  any  business,  is  universally  known  and 
acknowledged,  yet  the  high  importance  of  it  in 
national  affairs  has  not  yet  become  sufficiently  im- 
pressed on  the  public  mind.  They  who  wish  to  com- 
mit the  power  under  consideration  to  a  popular 
assembly,  composed  of  members  constantly  coming 
and  going  in  quick  succession,  seem  not  to  recollect 
that  such  a  body  must  necessarily  be  inadequate  to 
the  attainment  of  those  great  objects,  which  require 


148  Alexander  Hamilton 

to  be  steadily  contemplated  in  all  their  relations  and 
circumstances,  and  which  can  only  be  approached 
and  achieved  by  measures  which  not  only  talents, 
but  also  exact  information,  and  often  much  time,  are 
necessary  to  concert  and  to  execute.  It  was  wise, 
therefore,  in  the  convention  to  provide,  not  only  that 
the  power  of  making  treaties  should  be  committed 
to  able  and  honest  men,  but  also  that  they  should 
continue  in  place  a  sufficient  time  to  become  per- 
fectly acquainted  with  our  national  concerns,  and  to 
form  and  introduce  a  system  for  the  management  of 
them.  The  duration  prescribed  is  such  as  will  give 
them  an  opportunity  of  greatly  extending  their 
political  information,  and  of  rendering  their  accumu- 
lating experience  more  and  more  beneficial  to  their 
country.  Nor  has  the  convention  discovered  less 
prudence  in  providing  for  the  frequent  elections  of 
senators  in  such  a  way  as  to  obviate  the  incon- 
venience of  periodically  transferring  those  great 
affairs  entirely  to  new  men;  for  by  leaving  a  con- 
siderable residue  of  the  old  ones  in  place,  uniformity 
and  order,  as  well  as  a  constant  succession  of  official 
information,  will  be  preserved. 

There  are  a  few  who  will  not  admit  that  the  affairs 
of  trade  and  navigation  should  be  regulated  by  a 
system  cautiously  formed  and  steadily  pursued ;  and 
that  both  our  treaties  and  our  laws  should  corre- 
spond with  and  be  made  to  promote  it.  It  is  of  much 
consequence  that  this  correspondence  and  con- 
formity be  carefully  maintained;  and  they  who 
assent  to  the  truth  of  this  position  will  see  and  con- 
fess that  it  is  well  provided  for  by  making  concur- 


The  Federalist  149 

rence  of  the  Senate  necessary  both  to  treaties  and 
to  laws 

It  seldom  happens  in  the  negotiation  of  treaties, 
of  whatever  nature,  but  that  perfect  secrecy  and 
immediate  despatch  are  sometimes  requisite.  There 
are  cases  where  the  most  useful  intelligence  may  be 
obtained,  if  the  persons  possessing  it  can  be  relieved 
from  apprehensions  of  discovery.  Those  apprehen- 
sions will  operate  on  those  persons  whether  they  are 
actuated  by  mercenary  or  friendly  motives;  and 
there  doubtless  are  many  of  both  descriptions,  who 
would  rely  on  the  secrecy  of  the  President,  but  who 
would  not  confide  in  that  of  the  Senate,  and  still  less 
in  that  of  a  large  popular  Assembly.  The  convention 
have  done  well,  therefore,  in  so  disposing  of  the  power 
of  making  treaties,  that  although  the  President  must, 
in  forming  them,  act  by  the  advice  and  consent  of 
the  Senate,  yet  he  will  be  able  to  manage  the  business 
of  intelligence  in  such  a  manner  as  prudence  may 
suggest. 

They  who  have  turned  their  attention  to  the  affairs 
of  men,  must  have  perceived  that  there  are  tides  in 
them;  tides  very  irregular  in  their  duration,  strength, 
and  direction,  and  seldom  found  to  run  twice  exactly 
in  the  same  manner  or  measure.  To  discern  and  to 
profit  by  these  tides  in  national  affairs  is  the  business 
of  those  who  preside  over  them  ;  and  they  who  have 
had  much  experience  on  this  head  inform  us,  that 
there  frequently  are  occasions  when  days,  nay,  even 
when  hours,  are  precious.  The  loss  of  a  battle,  the 
death  of  a  prince,  the  removal  of  a  minister,  or  other 
circumstances   intervening   to   change   the   present 


150  Alexander  Hamilton 

posture  and  aspect  of  affairs,  may  turn  the  most 
favorable  tide  into  a  course  opposite  to  our  wishes. 
As  in  the  field,  so  in  the  cabinet,  there  are  moments 
to  be  seized  as  they  pass,  and  they  who  preside  in 
either  should  be  left  in  capacity  to  improve  them. 
So  often  and  so  essentially  have  we  heretofore  suf- 
fered from  the  want  of  secrecy  and  despatch,  that 
the  Constitution  would  have  been  inexcusably  de- 
fective, if  no  attention  had  been  paid  to  those  objects. 
Those  matters  which  in  negotiations  usually  require 
the  most  secrecy  and  the  most  despatch,  are  those 
preparatory  and  auxiliary  measures  which  are  not 
otherwise  important  in  a  national  view,  than  as  they 
tend  to  facilitate  the  attainment  of  the  objects  of  the 
negotiation.  For  these,  the  President  will  find  no 
difficulty  to  provide;  and  should  any  circumstance 
occur  which  requires  the  advice  and  consent  of  the 
Senate,  he  may  at  any  time  convene  them.  Thus  we 
see  that  the  Constitution  provides  that  our  negotia- 
tions for  treaties  shall  have  every  advantage  which 
can  be  derived  from  talents,  information,  integrity, 
and  deliberate  investigations,  on  the  one  hand,  and 
from  secrecy  and  despatch,  on  the  other. 

But  to  this  plan,  as  to  most  others  that  have  ever 
appeared,  objections  are  contrived  and  urged. 

Some  are  displeased  with  it,  not  on  account  of  any 
errors  or  defects  in  it,  but  because,  as  the  treaties, 
when  made,  are  to  have  the  force  of  laws,  they 
should  be  made  only  by  men  invested  with  legislative 
authority.  These  gentlemen  seem  not  to  consider 
that  the  judgments  of  our  courts,  and  the  commis- 
sions constitutionally  given  by  our  governor,  are  as 


The  Federalist  151 

valid  and  as  binding  on  all  persons  whom  they  con- 
cern, as  the  laws  passed  by  our  legislature.  All 
constitutional  acts  of  power,  whether  in  the  execu- 
tive or  in  the  judicial  department,  have  as  much 
legal  validity  and  obligation  as  if  they  proceeded 
from  the  legislature;  and  therefore,  whatever  name 
be  given  to  the  power  of  making  treaties,  or  however 
obligatory  they  may  be  when  made,  certain  it  is, 
that  the  people  may,  with  much  propriety,  commit 
the  power  to  a  distinct  body  from  the  legislature,  the 
executive,  or  the  judicial.  It  surely  does  not  follow, 
that  because  they  have  given  the  power  of  making 
laws  to  the  legislature,  that  therefore  they  should 
likewise  give  them  power  to  do  every  other  act  of 
sovereignty  by  which  the  citizens  are  to  be  bound 
and  affected. 

Others,  though  content  that  treaties  should  be 
made  in  the  mode  proposed,  are  averse  to  their  being 
the  supreme  laws  of  the  land.  They  insist,  and  pro- 
fess to  believe,  that  treaties  like  acts  of  assembly, 
should  be  repealable  at  pleasure.  This  idea  seems 
to  be  new  and  peculiar  to  this  country,  but  new 
errors,  as  well  as  new  truths,  often  appear.  These 
gentlemen  would  do  well  to  reflect  that  a  treaty  is 
only  another  name  for  a  bargain,  and  that  it  would 
be  impossible  to  find  a  nation  who  would  make  any 
bargain  with  us,  which  should  be  binding  on  them 
absolutely,  but  on  us  only  so  long  and  so  far  as  we 
may  think  proper  to  be  bound  by  it.  They  who 
make  laws  may,  without  doubt,  amend  or  repeal 
them;  and  it  will  not  be  disputed  that  they  who 
make  treaties  may  alter  or  cancel  them ;  but  still  let 


152  Alexander  Hamilton 

us  not  forget  that  treaties  are  made,  not  by  only  one 
of  the  contracting  parties,  but  by  both;  and  conse- 
quently, that  as  the  consent  of  both  was  essential  to 
their  formation  at  first,  so  must  it  ever  afterwards  be 
to  alter  or  cancel  them.  The  proposed  Constitution, 
therefore,  has  not  in  the  least  extended  the  obligation 
of  treaties.  They  are  just  as  binding,  and  just  as  far 
beyond  the  lawful  reach  of  legislative  acts  now,  as 
they  will  be  at  any  future  period,  or  under  any  form 
of  government. 

However  useful  jealousy  may  be  in  republics,  yet 
when  like  bile  in  the  natural,  it  abounds  too  much 
in  the  body  politic,  the  eyes  of  both  become  very 
liable  to  be  deceived  by  the  delusive  appearances 
which  that  malady  casts  on  surrounding  objects. 
From  this  cause,  probably,  proceed  the  fears  and 
apprehensions  of  some,  that  the  President  and 
Senate  may  make  treaties  without  an  equal  eye  to 
the  interests  of  all  the  States.  Others  suspect  that 
two  thirds  will  oppress  the  remaining  third,  and  ask 
whether  those  gentlemen  are  made  sufficiently  re- 
sponsible for  their  conduct;  whether,  if  they  act 
corruptly,  they  can  be  punished;  and  if  they  make 
disadvantageous  treaties,  how  are  we  to  get  rid  of 
those  treaties? 

As  all  the  States  are  equally  represented  in  the 
Senate,  and  by  men  the  most  able  and  the  most 
willing  to  promote  the  interests  of  their  constituents, 
they  will  all  have  an  equal  degree  of  influence  in  that 
body,  especially  while  they  continue  to  be  careful  in 
appointing  proper  persons,  and  to  insist  on  their 
punctual  attendance.     In  proportion  as  the  United 


The  Federalist  153 

States  assume  a  national  form  and  a  national  char- 
acter, so  will  the  good  of  the  whole  be  more  and  more 
an  object  of  attention,  and  the  government  must  be 
a  weak  one  indeed,  if  it  should  forget  that  the  good 
of  the  whole  can  only  be  promoted  by  advancing  the 
good  of  each  of  the  parts  or  members  which  compose 
the  whole.  It  will  not  be  in  the  power  of  the  Presi- 
dent and  Senate  to  make  any  treaties  by  which  they 
and  their  families  and  estates  will  not  be  equally 
bound  and  affected  with  the  rest  of  the  community; 
and,  having  no  private  interests  distinct  from  that 
of  the  nation,  they  will  be  under  no  temptations  to 
neglect  the  latter. 

As  to  corruption,  the  case  is  not  supposable.  He 
must  either  have  been  very  unfortunate  in  his  in- 
tercourse with  the  world,  or  possess  a  heart  very 
susceptible  of  such  impressions,  who  can  think  it 
probable  that  the  President  and  two  thirds  of  the  Sen- 
ate will  ever  be  capable  of  such  unworthy  conduct. 
The  idea  is  too  gross  and  too  invidious  to  be  enter- 
tained. But  in  such  a  case,  if  it  should  ever  happen, 
the  treaty  so  obtained  from  us  would,  like  all  other 
fraudulent  contracts,  be  null  and  void  by  the  law  of 
nations. 

With  respect  to  their  responsibility,  it  is  difficult 
to  conceive  how  it  could  be  increased.  Every  con- 
sideration that  can  influence  the  human  mind,  such 
as  honor,  oaths,  reputations,  conscience,  the  love 
of  country,  and  family  affections  and  attachments, 
afford  security  for  their  fidelity.  In  short,  as  the 
Constitution  has  taken  the  utmost  care  that  they 
shall  be  men  of  talents  and  integrity,  we  have  reason 


154  Alexander  Hamilton 

to  be  persuaded  that  the  treaties  they  make  will  be 
as  advantageous  as,  all  circumstances  considered, 
could  be  made ;  and  so  far  as  the  fear  of  punishment 
and  disgrace  can  operate,  that  motive  to  good  be- 
havior is  amply  afforded  by  the  article  on  the  subject 
of  impeachments. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Friday,  March  7,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXV 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

The  remaining  powers  which  the  plan  of  the  con- 
vention allots  to  the  Senate,  in  a  distinct  capacity, 
are  comprised  in  their  participation  with  the  execu- 
tive in  the  appointment  to  offices,  and  in  their  judicial 
character  as  a  court  for  the  trial  of  impeachments. 
As  in  the  business  of  appointments  the  executive 
will  be  the  principal  agent,  the  provisions  relating  to 
it  will  most  properly  be  discussed  in  the  examination 
of  that  department.  We  will,  therefore,  conclude 
this  head  with  a  view  of  the  judicial  character  of  the 
Senate. 

A  well-constituted  court  for  the  trial  of  impeach- 
ments is  an  object  not  more  to  be  desired  than  diffi- 
cult to  be  obtained  in  a  government  wholly  elective. 
The  subjects  of  its  jurisdiction  are  those  offences 
which  proceed  from  the  misconduct  of  public  men, 
or,  in  other  words,  from  the  abuse  or  violation  of 
some  public  trust.  They  are  of  a  nature  which  may 
with  peculiar  propriety  be  denominated  political, 


The  Federalist  155 

as  they  relate  chiefly  to  injuries  done  immediately 
to  the  society  itself.  The  prosecution  of  them,  for 
this  reason,  will  seldom  fail  to  agitate  the  passions  of 
the  whole  community,  and  to  divide  it  into  parties 
more  or  less  friendly  or  inimical  to  the  accused.  In 
many  cases  it  will  connect  itself  with  the  preexisting 
factions,  and  will  enlist  all  their  animosities,  par- 
tialities, influence,  and  interest  on  one  side  or  on  the 
other;  and  in  such  cases  there  will  always  be  the 
greatest  danger  that  the  decision  will  be  regulated 
more  by  the  comparative  strength  of  parties,  than 
by  the  real  demonstrations  of  innocence  or  guilt. 

The  delicacy  and  magnitude  of  a  trust  which  so 
deeply  concerns  the  political  reputation  and  exist- 
ence of  every  man  engaged  in  the  administration  of 
public  affairs,  speak  for  themselves.  The  difficulty 
of  placing  it  rightly,  in  a  government  resting  en- 
tirely on  the  basis  of  periodical  elections,  will  as 
readily  be  perceived,  when  it  is  considered  that  the 
most  conspicuous  characters  in  it  will,  from  that  cir- 
cumstance, be  too  often  the  leaders  or  the  tools  of  the 
most  cunning  or  the  most  numerous  faction,  and  on 
this  account,  can  hardly  be  expected  to  possess  the 
requisite  neutrality  towards  those  whose  conduct 
may  be  the  subject  of  scrutiny. 

The  convention,  it  appear^,  thought  the  Senate 
the  most  fit  depositary  of  this  important  trust. 
Those  who  can  best  discern  the  intrinsic  difficulty 
of  the  thing,  will  be  least  hasty  in  condemning  that 
opinion,  and  will  be  most  inclined  to  allow  due 
weight  to  the  arguments  which  may  be  supposed  to 
have  produced  it. 


156  Alexander  Hamilton 

What,  it  may  be  asked,  is  the  true  spirit  of  the  in- 
stitution itself?  Is  it  not  designed  as  a  method  of 
NATIONAL  INQUEST  into  the  conduct  of  public  men? 
If  this  be  the  design  of  it,  who  can  so  properly  be  the 
inquisitors  for  the  nation  as  the  representatives  of 
the  nation  themselves?  It  is  not  disputed  that  the 
power  of  originating  the  inquiry,  or,  in  other  words, 
of  preferring  the  impeachment,  ought  to  be  lodged 
in  the  hands  of  one  branch  of  the  legislative  body. 
Will  not  the  reasons  which  indicate  the  propriety  of 
this  arrangement  strongly  plead  for  an  admission  of 
the  other  branch  of  that  body  to  a  share  of  the  in- 
quiry? The  model  from  which  the  idea  of  this  in- 
stitution has  been  borrowed,  pointed  out  that  course 
to  the  convention.  In  Great  Britain  it  is  the  pro- 
vince of  the  House  of  Commons  to  prefer  the  im- 
peachment, and  of  the  House  of  Lords  to  decide  upon 
it.  Several  of  the  State  constitutions  have  followed 
the  example.  As  well  the  latter,  as  the  former,  seem 
to  have  regarded  the  practice  of  impeachments  as  a 
bridle  in  the  hands  of  the  legislative  body  upon  the 
executive  servants  of  the  government.  Is  not  this 
the  true  light  in  which  it  ought  to  be  regarded  ? 

Where  else  than  in  the  Senate  could  have  been 
found  a  tribunal  sufficiently  dignified,  or  suffi- 
ciently independent?  What  other  body  would  be 
likely  to  feel  confidence  enough  in  its  own  situation^ 
to  preserve,  unawed  and  uninfluenced,  the  necessary 
impartiality  between  an  individual  accused,  and  the 
representatives  of  the  people,  his  accusers? 

Could  the  Supreme  Court  have  been  relied  upon 
as  answering  this  description?     It  is  much  to  be 


The  Federalist  157 

doubted,  whether  the  members  of  that  tribunal 
would  at  all  times  be  endowed  with  so  eminent  a 
portion  of  fortitude,  as  would  be  called  for  in  the 
execution  of  so  difficult  a  task;  and  it  is  still  more 
to  be  doubted,  whether  they  would  possess  the  de- 
gree of  credit  and  authority,  which  might,  on  certain 
occasions,  be  indispensable  towards  reconciling  the 
people  to  a  decision  that  should  happen  to  clash 
with  an  accusation  brought  by  their  immediate  re- 
presentatives. A  deficiency  in  the  first,  would  be 
fatal  to  the  accused;  in  the  last,  dangerous  to  the 
public  tranquillity.  The  hazard,  in  both  these  re- 
spects, could  only  be  avoided,  if  at  all,  by  rendering 
that  tribunal  more  numerous  than  would  consist 
with  a  reasonable  attention  to  economy.  The 
necessity  of  a  numerous  court  for  the  trial  of  im- 
peachments, is  equally  dictated  by  the  nature  of  the 
proceeding.  This  can  never  be  tied  down  by  such 
strict  rules,  either  in  the  delineation  of  the  offence 
by  the  prosecutors,  or  in  the  construction  of  it  by 
the  judges,  as  in  common  cases  serve  to  limit  the 
discretion  of  courts  in  favor  of  personal  security. 
There  will  be  no  jury  to  stand  between  the  judges 
who  are  to  pronounce  the  sentence  of  the  law,  and 
the  party  who  is  to  receive  or  suffer  it.  The  awful 
discretion  which  a  court  of  impeachments  must 
necessarily  have,  to  doom  to  honor  or  to  infamy  the 
most  confidential  and  the  most  distinguished  char- 
acters of  the  community,  forbids  the  commitment 
of  the  trust  to  a  small  number  of  persons. 

These  considerations  seem  alone  sufficient  to  au- 
thorize a  conclusion,  that  the  Supreme  Court  would 


158  Alexander  Hamilton 

have  been  an  improper  substitute  for  the  Senate,  as 
a  court  of  impeachments.  There  remains  a  further 
consideration,  which  will  not  a  little  strengthen  this 
conclusion.  It  is  this:  The  punishment  which  may 
be  the  consequence  of  conviction  upon  impeach- 
ment, is  not  to  terminate  the  chastisement  of  the 
offender.  After  having  been  sentenced  to  a  per- 
petual ostracism  from  the  esteem  and  confidence, 
and  honors  and  emoluments  of  his  country,  he  will 
still  be  liable  to  prosecution  and  punishment  in  the 
ordinary  course  of  law.  Would  it  be  proper  that 
the  persons  who  had  disposed  of  his  fame,  and  his 
most  valuable  rights  as  a  citizen,  in  one  trial,  should, 
in  another  trial,  for  the  same  offence,  be  also  the 
disposers  of  his  life  and  his  fortune?  Would  there 
not  be  the  greatest  reason  to  apprehend,  that  error, 
in  the  first  sentence,  would  be  the  parent  of  error  in 
the  second  sentence?  That  the  strong  bias  of  one 
decision  would  be  apt  to  overrule  the  influence  of 
any  new  lights  which  might  be  brought  to  vary  the 
complexion  of  another  decision?  Those  who  know 
any  thing  of  human  nature,  will  not  hesitate  to 
answer  these  questions  in  the  affirmative;  and  will 
be  at  no  loss  to  perceive,  that  by  making  the  same 
persons  judges  in  both  cases,  those  who  might  happen 
to  be  the  objects  of  prosecution  would,  in  a  great 
measure,  be  deprived  of  the  double  security  intended 
them  by  a  double  trial.  The  loss  of  life  and  estate 
would  often  be  virtually  included  in  a  sentence  which, 
in  its  terms,  imported  nothing  more  than  dismission 
from  a  present,  and  disqualification  for  a  future, 
office.     It  may  be  said,  that  the  intervention  of  a 


The  Federalist  159 

jury,  in  the  second  instance,  would  obviate  the 
danger.  But  juries  are  frequently  influenced  by  the 
opinions  of  judges.  They  are  sometimes  induced  to 
find  special  verdicts,  which  refer  the  main  question 
to  the  decision  of  the  court.  Who  would  be  willing 
to  stake  his  life  and  his  estate  upon  the  verdict  of  a 
jury  acting  under  the  auspices  of  judges  who  had 
predetermined  his  guilt  ? 

Would  it  have  been  an  improvement  of  the  plan, 
to  have  united  the  Supreme  Court  with  the  Senate, 
in  the  formation  of  the  court  of  impeachments? 
This  union  would  certainly  have  been  attended  with 
several  advantages;  but  would  they  not  have  been 
overbalanced  by  the  signal  disadvantage,  already 
stated,  arising  from  the  agency  of  the  same  judges  in 
the  double  prosecution  to  which  the  offender  would 
be  liable?  To  a  certain  extent,  the  benefits  of  that 
union  will  be  obtained  from  making  the  chief  justice 
of  the  Supreme  Court  the  president  of  the  court  of 
impeachments,  as  is  proposed  to  be  done  in  the  plan 
of  the  convention;  while  the  inconveniences  of  an 
entire  incorporation  of  the  former  into  the  latter  will 
be  substantially  avoided.  This  was  perhaps  the 
prudent  mean.  I  forbear  to  remark  upon  the  addi- 
tional pretext  for  clamor  against  the  judiciary,  which 
so  considerable  an  augmentg^tion  of  its  authority 
would  have  afforded. 

Would  it  have  been  desirable  to  have  composed  the 
court  for  the  trial  of  impeachments,  of  persons  wholly 
distinct  from  the  other  departments  of  the  govern- 
ment ?  There  are  weighty  arguments,  as  well  against, 
as  in  favor  of,  such  a  plan.     To  some  minds  it  will 


i6o  Alexander  Hamilton 

not  appear  a  trivial  objection,  that  it  could  tend  to 
increase  the  complexity  of  the  political  machine,  and 
to  add  a  new  spring  to  the  government,  the  utility 
of  which  would  at  best  be  questionable.  But  an  ob- 
jection which  will  not  be  thought  by  any  unworthy 
of  attention,  is  this:  a  court  formed  upon  such  a 
plan,  would  either  be  attended  with  a  heavy  expense, 
or  might  in  practice  be  subject  to  a  variety  of  casu- 
alities  and  inconveniences.  It  must  either  consist  of 
permanent  officers,  stationary  at  the  seat  of  govern- 
ment, and  of  course  entitled  to  fixed  and  regular 
stipends,  or  of  certain  officers  of  the  State  govern- 
ments, to  be  called  upon  whenever  an  impeachment 
was  actually  depending.  It  will  not  be  easy  to 
imagine  any  third  mode  materially  different,  which 
could  rationally  be  proposed.  As  the  court,  for 
reasons  already  given,  ought  to  be  numerous,  the 
first  scheme  will  be  reprobated  by  every  man  who 
can  compare  the  extent  of  the  public  wants  with 
the  means  of  supplying  them.  The  second  will  be 
espoused  with  caution  by  those  who  will  seriously 
consider  the  difficulty  of  collecting  men  dispersed 
over  the  whole  Union;  the  injury  to  the  innocent, 
from  the  procrastinated  determination  of  the  charges 
which  might  be  brought  against  them;  the  advan- 
tage to  the  guilty,  from  the  opportunities  which 
delay  would  afford  to  intrigue  and  corruption;  and 
in  some  cases  the  detriment  to  the  State,  from  the 
prolonged  inaction  of  men  whose  firm  and  faithful 
execution  of  their  duty  might  have  exposed  them  to 
the  persecution  of  an  intemperate  or  designing  ma- 
jority in  the  House  of  Representatives.     Though  this 


The  Federalist  i6i 

latter  supposition  may  seem  harsh,  and  might  not  be 
Hkely  often  to  be  verified,  yet  it  ought  not  to  be  forgot- 
ten that  the  demon  of  faction  will,  at  certain  seasons, 
extend  his  sceptre  over  all  numerous  bodies  of  men. 
But  though  one  or  the  other  of  the  substitutes 
which  have  been  examined,  or  some  other  that  might 
be  devised,  should  be  thought  preferable  to  the  plan, 
in  this  respect,  reported  by  the  convention,  it  will  not 
follow  that  the  Constitution  ought  for  this  reason  to 
be  rejected.  If  mankind  were  to  resolve  to  agree  in 
no  institution  of  government,  until  every  part  of  it 
had  been  adjusted  to  the  most  exact  standard  of 
perfection,  society  would  soon  become  a  general 
scene  of  anarchy,  and  the  world  a  desert.  Where  is 
the  standard  of  perfection  to  be  found?  Who  will 
undertake  to  unite  the  discordant  opinions  of  a  whole 
community,  in  the  same  judgment  of  it;  and  to 
prevail  upon  one  conceited  projector  to  renounce  his 
infallible  criterion  for  the  fallible  criterion  of  his  more 
conceited  neighbor  f  To  answer  the  purpose  of  the 
adversaries  of  the  Constitution,  they  ought  to  prove, 
not  merely  that  particular  provisions  in  it  are  not  the 
best  which  might  have  been  imagined,  but  that  the 
plan  upon  the  whole  is  bad  and  pernicious. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Tuesday,  March  ii,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXVI 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

A  review  of  the  principal  objections  that  have  ap- 
peared against  the  proposed  court  for  the  trial  of 


VOL.  XII.— II. 


1 62  Alexander  Hamilton 

impeachments,  will  not  improbably  eradicate  the 
remains  of  any  unfavorable  impressions  which  may 
still  exist  in  regard  to  this  matter. 

The  first  of  these  objections  is,  that  the  provision 
in  question  confounds  legislative  and  judiciary 
authorities  in  the  same  body,  in  violation  of  that 
important  and  well-established  maxim  which  requires 
a  separation  between  the  different  departments  of 
power.  The  true  meaning  of  this  maxim  has  been 
discussed  and  ascertained  in  another  place,  and  has 
been  shown  to  be  entirely  compatible  with  a  partial 
intermixture  of  those  departments  for  special  pur- 
poses, preserving  them,  in  the  main,  distinct  and 
unconnected.  This  partial  intermixture  is  even,  in 
some  cases,  not  only  proper  but  necessary  to  the 
mutual  defence  of  the  several  members  of  the  govern- 
ment against  each  other.  An  absolute  or  qualified 
negative  in  the  executive  upon  the  acts  of  the  legis- 
lative body,  is  admitted,  by  the  ablest  adepts  in 
political  science,  to  be  an  indispensable  barrier 
against  the  encroachments  of  the  latter  upon  the 
former.  And  it  may,  perhaps,  with  no  less  reason 
be  contended,  that  the  powers  relating  to  impeach- 
ments are,  as  before  intimated,  an  essential  check  in 
the  hands  of  that  body  upon  the  encroachments  of 
the  executive.  The  division  of  them  between  the  two 
branches  of  the  legislature,  assigning  to  one  the  right 
of  accusing,  to  the  other  the  right  of  judging,  avoids 
the  inconvenience  of  making  the  same  persons  both 
accusers  and  judges ;  and  guards  against  the  danger 
of  persecution,  from  the  pre  valency  of  a  factious 
spirit  in  either  of  those  branches.     As  the  concur- 


The  Federalist  163 

rence  of  two  thirds  of  the  Senate  will  be  requisite  to  a 
condemnation,  the  security  to  innocence,  from  this 
additional  circumstance,  will  be  as  complete  as  itself 
can  desire. 

It  is  curious  to  observe,  with  what  vehemence  this 
part  of  the  plan  is  assailed,  on  the  principle  here 
taken  notice  of,  by  men  who  profess  to  admire,  with- 
out exception,  the  constitution  of  this  State;  while 
that  constitution  makes  the  Senate,  together  with  the 
chancellor  and  judges  of  the  Supreme  Court,  not 
only  a  court  of  impeachments,  but  the  highest 
judicatory  in  the  State,  in  all  causes,  civil  and 
criminal.  The  proportion,  in  point  of  numbers,  of 
the  chancellor  and  judges  to  the  senators,  is  so  in- 
considerable, that  the  judiciary  authority  of  New 
York,  in  the  last  resort,  may,  with  truth,  be  said  to 
reside  in  its  Senate.  If  the  plan  of  the  convention  be, 
in  this  respect,  chargeable  with  a  departure  from  the 
celebrated  maxim  which  has  been  so  often  mentioned, 
and  seems  to  be  so  little  understood,  how  much  more 
culpable  must  be  the  constitution  of  New  York  ?  ^ 

A  second  objection  to  the  Senate,  as  a  court  of 
impeachments,  is,  that  it  contributes  to  an  undue 
accumulation  of  power  in  that  body,  tending  to  give 
to  the  government  a  countenance  too  aristocratic. 
The  Senate,  it  is  observed,  is  to  have  concurrent 
authority  with  the  Executive  in  the  formation  of 
treaties  and  in  the  appointment  to  oiBces:  if,  say  the 
objectors,   to  these  prerogatives  is   added  that  of 

^  In  that  of  New  Jersey,  also,  the  final  judiciary  authority  is  in  a 
branch  of  the  legislature.  In  New  Hampshire,  Massachusetts,  Penn- 
sylvania, and  South  Carolina,  one  branch  of  the  legislature  is  the 
court  for  the  trial  of  impeachments. — Publius. 


164  Alexander  Hamilton 

deciding  in  all  cases  of  impeachment,  it  will  give  a 
decided  predominancy  to  senatorial  influence.  To 
an  objection  so  little  precise  in  itself,  it  is  not  easy  to 
find  a  very  precise  answer.  Where  is  the  measure  or 
criterion  to  which  we  can  appeal,  for  determining 
what  will  give  the  Senate  too  much,  too  little,  or 
barely  the  proper  degree  of  influence?  Will  it  not 
be  more  safe,  as  well  as  more  simple,  to  dismiss  such 
vague  and  uncertain  calculations,  to  examine  each 
power  by  itself,  and  to  decide,  on  general  principles, 
where  it  may  be  deposited  with  most  advantage  and 
least  inconvenience? 

If  we  take  this  course,  it  will  lead  to  a  more  in- 
telligible, if  not  to  a  more  certain  result.  The  dis- 
position of  the  power  of  making  treaties,  which  has 
obtained  in  the  plan  of  the  convention,  will,  then,  if 
I  mistake  not,  appear  to  be  fully  justified  by  the 
considerations  stated  in  a  former  number,  and  by 
others  which  will  occur  under  the  next  head  of  our 
inquiries.  The  expediency  of  the  junction  of  the 
Senate  with  the  Executive,  in  the  power  of  appoint- 
ing to  offices,  will,  I  trust,  be  placed  in  a  light  not 
less  satisfactory,  in  the  disquisitions  under  the  same 
head.  And  I  flatter  myself  the  observations  in  my 
last  paper  must  have  gone  no  inconsiderable  way 
towards  proving  that  it  was  not  easy,  if  practicable, 
to  find  a  more  fit  receptacle  for  the  power  of  de- 
termining impeachments,  than  that  which  has  been 
chosen.  If  this  be  truly  the  case,  the  hypothetical 
dread  of  the  too  great  weight  of  the  Senate  ought  to 
be  discarded  from  our  reasonings. 

But  this  hypothesis,  such  as  it  is,  has  already  been 


The  Federalist  165 

refuted  in  the  remarks  apphed  to  the  duration  in 
office  prescribed  for  the  senators.  It  was  by  them 
shown,  as  well  on  the  credit  of  historical  examples, 
as  from  the  reason  of  the  thing,  that  the  most  popular 
branch  of  every  government,  partaking  of  the  re- 
publican genius,  by  being  generally  the  favorite  of 
the  people,  will  be  as  generally  a  full  match,  if  not  an 
overmatch,  for  every  other  member  of  the  Govern- 
ment. 

But  independent  of  this  most  active  and  operative 
principle,  to  secure  the  equilibrium  of  the  national 
House  of  Representatives,  the  plan  of  the  convention 
has  provided  in  its  favor  several  important  counter- 
poises to  the  additional  authorities  to  be  conferred 
upon  the  Senate.  The  exclusive  privilege  of  origin- 
ating money  bills  will  belong  to  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives. The  same  house  will  possess  the  sole 
right  of  instituting  impeachments :  is  not  this  a  com- 
plete counterbalance  to  that  of  determining  them? 
The  same  house  will  be  the  umpire  in  all  elections  of 
the  President,  which  do  not  unite  the  suffrages  of  a 
majority  of  the  whole  number  of  electors;  a  case 
which  it  cannot  be  doubted  will  sometimes,  if  not 
frequently,  happen.  The  constant  possibility  of  the 
thing  must  be  a  fruitful  source  of  influence  to  that 
body.  The  more  it  is  contemplated,  the  more  im- 
portant will  appear  this  ultimate  though  contingent 
power,  "of  deciding  the  competitions  of  the  most 
illustrious  citizens  of  the  Union,  for  the  first  office  in 
it.  It  would  not  perhaps  be  rash  to  predict,  that  as 
a  mean  of  influence  it  will  be  found  to  outweigh  all 
the  peculiar  attributes  of  the  Senate. 


1 66  Alexander  Hamilton 

A  third  objection  to  the  Senate  as  a  court  of  im- 
peachments is  drawn  from  the  agency  they  are  to 
have  in  the  appointments  to  office.  It  is  imagined 
that  they  would  be  too  indulgent  judges  of  the  con- 
duct of  men,  in  whose  official  creation  they  had 
participated.  The  principle  of  this  objection  would 
condemn  a  practice,  which  is  to  be  seen  in  all  the 
State  governments,  if  not  in  all  the  governments  with 
which  we  are  acquainted:  I  mean  that  of  rendering 
those  who  hold  offices  during  pleasure,  dependent  on 
the  pleasure  of  those  who  appoint  them.  With 
equal  plausibility  might  it  be  alleged  in  this  case, 
that  the  favoritism  of  the  latter  would  always  be  an 
asylum  for  the  misbehavior  of  the  former.  But  that 
practice,  in  contradiction  to  this  principle,  proceeds 
upon  the  presumption,  that  the  responsibility  of 
those  who  appoint,  for  the  fitness  and  competency  of 
the  persons  on  whom  they  bestow  their  choice,  and 
the  interest  they  will  have  in  the  respectable  and 
prosperous  administration  of  affairs,  will  inspire  a 
sufficient  disposition  to  dismiss  from  a  share  in  it 
all  such  who,  by  their  conduct,  shall  have  proved 
themselves  unworthy  of  the  confidence  reposed  in 
them.  Though  facts  may  not  always  correspond 
with  this  presumption,  yet  if  it  be,  in  the  main,  just, 
it  must  destroy  the  supposition  that  the  Senate,  who 
will  merely  sanction  the  choice  of  the  Executive, 
should  feel  a  bias,  towards  the  objects  of  that'' choice, 
strong  enough  to  blind  them  to  the  evidences  of 
guilt  so  extraordinary,  as  to  have  induced  the  repre- 
sentatives of  the  nation  to  become  its  accusers. 

If  any  further  arguments  were  necessary  to  evince 


The  Federalist  167 

the  improbabiHty  of  such  a  bias,  it  might  be  found  in 
the  nature  of  the  agency  of  the  Senate  in  the  business 
of  appointments. 

It  will  be  the  office  of  the  President  to  nominate^ 
and,  with  the  advice  and  consent  of  the  Senate,  to 
appoint.  There  will,  of  course,  be  no  exertion  of 
choice  on  the  part  of  the  Senate.  They  may  defeat 
one  choice  of  the  Executive,  and  oblige  him  to  make 
another;  but  they  cannot  themselves  choose — they 
can  only  ratify  or  reject  the  choice  of  the  President. 
They  might  even  entertain  a  preference  to  some  other 
person,  at  the  very  moment  they  were  assenting  to 
the  one  proposed,  because  there  might  be  no  positive 
ground  of  opposition  to  him ;  and  they  could  not  be 
sure,  if  they  withheld  their  assent,  that  the  subse- 
quent nomination  would  fall  upon  their  own  favorite, 
or  upon  any  other  person  in  their  estimation  more 
meritorious  than  the  one  rejected.  Thus  it  could 
hardly  happen,  that  the  majority  of  the  Senate  would 
feel  any  other  complacency  towards  the  object  of  an 
appointment  than  such  as  the  appearances  of  merit 
might  inspire,  and  the  proofs  of  the  want  of  it  destroy. 

A  fourth  objection  to  the  Senate,  in  the  capacity  of 
a  court  of  impeachments,  is  derived  from  its  union 
with  the  Executive  in  the  power  of  making  treaties. 
This,  it  has  been  said,  would  constitute  the  senators 
their  own  judges,  in  every  case  of  a  corrupt  or  perfid- 
ious execution  of  that  trust.  After  having  com- 
bined with  the  Executive  in  betraying  the  interests 
of  the  nation  in  a  ruinous  treaty,  what  prospect,  it  is 
asked,  would  there  be  of  their  being  made  to  suffer 
the  punishment  they  would  deserve,  when  they  were 


1 68  Alexander  Hamilton 

themselves  to  decide  upon  the  accusation  brought 
against  them  for  the  treachery  of  which  they  have 
been  guilty? 

This  objection  has  been  circulated  with  more 
earnestness  and  with  greater  show  of  reason  than 
any  other  which  has  appeared  against  this  part  of  the 
plan ;  and  yet  I  am  deceived  if  it  does  not  rest  upon 
an  erroneous  foundation. 

The  security  essentially  intended  by  the  Constitu- 
tion against  corruption  and  treachery  in  the  forma- 
tion of  treaties,  is  to  be  sought  for  in  the  numbers  and 
characters  of  those  who  are  to  make  them.  The 
JOINT  AGENCY  of  the  Chief  Magistrate  of  the  Union, 
and  of  two  thirds  of  the  members  of  a  body  selected 
by  the  collective  wisdom  of  the  legislatures  of  the 
several  States,  is  designed  to  be  the  pledge  for  the 
fidelity  of  the  national  councils  in  this  particular. 
The  convention  might  with  propriety  have  meditated 
the  punishment  of  the  Executive,  for  a  deviation 
from  the  instructions  of  the  Senate,  or  a  want  of 
integrity  in  the  conduct  of  the  negotiations  com- 
mitted to  him ;  they  might  also  have  had  in  view  the 
punishment  of  a  few  leading  individuals  in  the 
Senate,  who  should  have  prostituted  their  influence 
in  that  body  as  the  mercenary  instruments  of  foreign 
corruption:  but  they  could  not,  with  more  or  with 
equal  propriety,  have  contemplated  the  impeach- 
ment and  punishment  of  two  thirds  of  the  Senate, 
consenting  to  an  improper  treaty,  than  of  a  majority 
of  that  or  of  the  other  branch  of  the  national  legisla- 
ture, consenting  to  a  pernicious  or  unconstitutional 
law, — a  principle  which,  I  believe,  has  never  been 


The  Federalist  169 

admitted  into  any  government.  How,  in  fact,  could 
a  majority  in  the  House  of  Representatives  impeach 
themselves?  Not  better,  it  is  evident,  than  two 
thirds  of  the  Senate  might  try  themselves.  And  yet 
what  reason  is  there,  that  a  majority  of  the  House 
of  Representatives,  sacrificing  the  interests  of  the 
society  by  an  unjust  and  tyrannical  act  of  legislation, 
should  escape  with  impunity,  more  than  two  thirds 
of  the  Senate,  sacrificing  the  same  interests  in  an 
injurious  treaty  with  a  foreign  power?  The  truth  is, 
that  in  all  such  cases  it  is  essential  to  the  freedom  and 
to  the  necessary  independence  of  the  deliberations  of 
the  body,  that  the  members  of  it  should  be  exempt 
from  punishment  for  acts  done  in  a  collective 
capacity;  and  the  security  to  the  society  must  de- 
pend on  the  care  which  is  taken  to  confide  the  trust 
to  proper  hands,  to  make  it  their  interest  to  execute 
it  with  fidelity,  and  to  make  it  as  difficult  as  possible 
for  them  to  combine  in  any  interest  opposite  to  that 
of  the  public  good. 

So  far  as  might  concern  the  misbehavior  of  the 
Executive  in  perverting  the  instructions  or  contra- 
vening the  views  of  the  Senate,  we  need  not  be  appre- 
hensive of  the  want  of  a  disposition  in  that  body  to 
punish  the  abuse  of  their  confidence,  or  to  vindicate 
their  own  authority.  We  may  thus  far  count  upon 
\heir  pride,  if  not  upon  their  virtue.  And  so  far  even 
as  might  concern  the  corruption  of  leading  members, 
by  those  arts  and  influence  the  majority  may  have 
been  inveigled  into  measures  odious  to  the  com- 
munity, if  the  proofs  of  that  corruption  should  be 
satisfactory,  the  usual  propensity  of  human  nature 


170  Alexander  Hamilton 

will  warrant  us  in  concluding  that  there  would  be 
commonly  no  defect  of  inclination  in  the  body  to 
divert  the  public  resentment  from  themselves  by  a 
ready  sacrifice  of  the  authors  of  their  mismanagement 
and  disgrace. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Tuesday,  March  11,  1788 
^HE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXVII 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

The  constitution  of  the  executive  department  of 
the  proposed  government,  claims  next  our  attention. 

There  is  hardly  any  part  of  the  system  which  could 
have  been  attended  with  greater  difficulty  in  the 
arrangement  of  it  than  this;  and  there  is,  perhaps, 
none  which  has  been  inveighed  against  with  less  can- 
dor or  criticised  with  less  judgment. 

Here  the  writers  against  the  Constitution  seem  to 
have  taken  pains  to  signalize  their  talent  of  mis- 
representation. Calculating  upon  the  aversion  of  the 
people  to  monarchy,  they  have  endeavored  to  enlist 
all  their  jealousies  and  apprehensions  in  opposition  to 
the  intended  President  of  the  United  States;  not 
merely  as  the  embryo,  but  as  the  full-grown  progeny, 
of  that  detested  parent.  To  establish  the  pretended 
affinity,  they  have  not  scrupled  to  draw  resources 
even  from  the  regions  of  fiction.  The  authorities  of 
a  magistrate,  in  a  few  instances  greater,  in  some 
instances  less,  than  those  of  a  governor  of  New  York 
have  been  magnified  into  more  than  royal  preroga- 


The  Federalist  171 

tives.  He  has  been  decorated  with  attributes  su- 
perior in  dignity  and  splendor  to  those  of  a  king  of 
Great  Britain.  He  has  been  shown  to  us  with  the 
diadem  sparkling  on  his  brow  and  the  imperial 
purple  flowing  m  his  train.  He  has  been  seated  on 
a  throne  surrounded  with  minions  and  mistresses, 
giving  audience  to  the  envoys  of  foreign  potentates, 
in  all  the  supercilious  pomp  of  majesty.  The  images 
of  Asiatic  despotism  and  voluptuousness  have 
scarcely  been  wanting  to  crown  the  exaggerated 
scene.  We  have  been  taught  to  tremble  at  the 
terrific  visages  of  murdering  janizaries,  and  to  blush 
at  the  unveiled  mysteries  of  a  future  seraglio. 

Attempts  so  extravagant  as  these  to  disfigure  or, 
it  might  rather  be  said,  to  metamorphose  the  object, 
render  it  necessary  to  take  an  accurate  view  of  its 
real  nature  and  form :  in  order  as  well  to  ascertain  its 
true  aspect  and  genuine  appearance,  as  to  unmask 
the  disingenuity  and  expose  the  fallacy  of  the  coun- 
terfeit resemblances  which  have  been  so  insidiously, 
as  well  as  industriously,  propagated. 

In  the  execution  of  this  task,  there  is  no  man  who 
would  not  find  it  an  arduous  effort  either  to  behold 
with  moderation,  or  to  treat  with  seriousness,  the 
devices,  not  less  weak  than  wicked,  which  have  been 
contrived  to  pervert  the  public  opinion  in  relation  to 
the  subject.  They  so  far  exceed  the  usual  though 
unjustifiable  licences  of  party  artifice,  that  even  in  a 
disposition  the  most  candid  and  tolerant,  they  must 
force  the  sentiments  which  favor  an  indulgent  con- 
struction of  the  conduct  of  political  adversaries  to 
give  place  to  a  voluntary  and  unreserved  indignation. 


172  Alexander  Hamilton 

It  is  impossible  not  to  bestow  the  imputation  of  de- 
liberate imposture  and  deception  upon  the  gross  pre- 
tence of  a  similitude  between  a  king  of  Great  Britain 
and  a  magistrate  of  the  character  marked  out  for  that 
of  the  President  of  the  United  States.  It  is  still 
more  impossible  to  withhold  that  imputation  from 
the  rash  and  barefaced  expedients  which  have  been 
employed  to  give  success  to  the  attempted  imposition. 

In  one  instance,  which  I  cite  as  a  sample  of  the 
general  spirit,  the  temerity  has  proceeded  so  far  as 
to  ascribe  to  the  President  of  the  United  States  a 
power  which  by  the  instrument  reported  is  expressly 
allotted  to  the  Executives  of  the  individual  States. 
I  mean  the  power  of  filling  casual  vacancies  in  the 
Senate. 

This  bold  experiment  upon  the  discernment  of  his 
countrymen  has  been  hazarded  by  a  writer  who 
(whatever  may  be  his  real  merit)  has  had  no  incon- 
siderable share  in  the  applauses  of  his  party ' ;  and 
who,  upon  this  false  and  unfounded  suggestion,  has 
built  a  series  of  observations  equally  false  and  un- 
founded. Let  him  now  be  confronted  with  the 
evidence  of  the  fact,  and  let  him,  if  he  be  able,  justify 
or  extenuate  the  shameful  outrage  he  has  offered  to 
the  dictates  of  truth  and  to  the  rules  of  fair  dealing. 

The  second  clause  of  the  second  section  of  the 
second  article  empowers  the  President  of  the  United 
States  ''to  nominate,  and  by  and  with  the  advice 
and  consent  of  the  Senate,  to  appoint  ambassadors, 
other  public  ministers  and  consuls,  judges  of  the 
Supreme  Court,  and  all  other  officers  of  United  States 

^  See  Cato,  No.  V. — Publius. 


The  Federalist  173 

whose  appointments  are  not  in  the  Constitution  other- 
wise provided  for,  and  which  shall  he  established  by 
law. ' '  Immediately  after  this  clause  follows  another 
in  these  words:  ''  The  President  shall  have  power  to 
fill  up  all  vacancies  that  may  happen  during  the  recess 
of  the  Senate,  by  granting  commissions  which  shall 
expire  at  the  end  of  their  next  session.''  It  is  from  this 
last  provision  that  the  pretended  power  of  the  Presi- 
dent to  fill  vacancies  in  the  Senate  has  been  deduced. 
A  slight  attention  to  the  connection  of  the  clauses, 
and  to  the  obvious  meaning  of  the  terms,  will  satisfy 
us  that  the  deduction  is  not  even  colorable. 

The  first  of  these  two  clauses,  it  is  clear,  only  pro- 
vides a  mode  for  appointing  such  officers,  "whose 
appointments  are  not  otherwise  provided  for  in  the 
Constitution,  and  which  shall  be  established  by  law''; 
of  course  it  cannot  extend  to  the  appointments  of 
senators,  whose  appointments  are  otherwise  provided 
for  in  the  Constitution,'  and  who  are  established  by 
the  Constitution,  and  will  not  require  a  future  estab- 
lishment by  law.  This  position  will  hardly  be 
contested. 

The  last  of  these  two  clauses,  it  is  equally  clear, 
cannot  be  understood  to  comprehend  the  power  of 
filling  vacancies  in  the  Senate,  for  the  following 
reasons: — First.  The  relation  in  which  that  clause 
stands  to  the  other,  which  declares  the  general  mode 
of  appointing  officers  of  the  United  States,  denotes 
it  to  be  nothing  more  than  a  supplement  to  the 
other,  for  the  purpose  of  establishing  an  aiixiliary 
method  of  appointment,  in  cases  to  which  the  general 

'Article  i,  section  3,  clause  i. — Publius. 


174  Alexander  Hamilton 

method  was  inadequate.  The  ordinary  power  of 
appointment  is  confined  to  the  President  and  Senate 
jointly y  and  can  therefore  only  be  exercised  during  the 
session  of  the  Senate;  but  as  it  would  have  been 
improper  to  oblige  this  body  to  be  continually  in 
session  for  the  appointment  of  officers,  and  as 
vacancies  might  happen  in  their  recess,  which  it 
might  be  necessary  for  the  public  service  to  fill  with- 
out delay,  the  succeeding  clause  is  evidently  intended 
to  authorize  the  President,  singly,  to  make  temporary 
appointments  '*  during  the  recess  of  the  Senate,  by 
granting  commissions  which  shall  expire  at  the  end 
of  their  next  session."  Secondly.  If  this  clause  is 
to  be  considered  as  supplementary  to  the  one  which 
precedes,  the  vacancies  of  which  it  speaks  must  be 
construed  to  relate  to  the  ''officers"  described  in  the 
preceding  one;  and  this,  we  have  seen,  excludes  from 
its  description  the  members  of  the  Senate.  Thirdly. 
The  time  within  which  the  power  is  to  operate,  ''  dur- 
ing the  recess  of  the  Senate,"  and  the  duration  of  the 
appointments,  "to  the  end  of  the  next  session"  of 
that  body,  conspire  to  elucidate  the  sense  of  the 
provision,  which,  if  it  had  been  intended  to  compre- 
hend senators,  would  naturally  have  referred  the 
temporary  power  of  filling  vacancies  to  the  recess  of 
the  State  legislatures,  who  are  to  make  the  permanent 
appointments,  and  not  to  the  recess  of  the  national 
Senate,  who  are  to  have  no  concern  in  those  appoint- 
ments; and  would  have  extended  the  duration  in 
office  of  the  temporary  senators  to  the  next  session  of 
the  legislature  of  the  State,  in  whose  representation 
the  vacancies  had  happened,  instead  of  making  it  to 


The  Federalist  175 

expire  at  the  end  of  the  ensuing  session  of  the  national 
Senate.  The  circumstances  of  the  body  authorized 
to  make  the  permanent  appointments  would,  of 
course,  have  governed  the  modification  of  a  power 
which  related  to  the  temporary  appointments;  and 
as  the  national  Senate  is  the  body,  whose  situation  is 
alone  contemplated  in  the  clause  upon  which  the 
suggestion  under  examination  has  been  founded,  the 
vacancies  to  which  it  alludes  can  only  be  deemed  to 
respect  those  officers  in  whose  appointment  that 
body  has  a  concurrent  agency  with  the  President. 
But  lastly,  the  first  and  second  clauses  of  the  third 
section  of  the  first  article,  not  only  obviate  all  possi- 
bility of  doubt,  but  destroy  the  pretext  of  miscon- 
ception. The  former  provides,  that  ''  the  Senate  of 
the  United  States  shall  be  composed  of  two  Senators 
from  each  State,  chosen  hy  the  legislature  thereof  for 
six  years ' ' ;  and  the  latter  directs,  that,  "  If  vacancies 
in  that  body  should  happen  by  resignation  or  other- 
wise, during  the  recess  of  the  legislature  of  any  State, 
the  Executive  thereof  may  make  temporary  ap- 
pointments until  the  next  meeting  of  the  legislature, 
which  shall  then  fill  such  vacancies."  Here  is  an 
express  power  given,  in  clear  and  unambiguous  terms, 
to  the  State  Executives,  to  fill  casual  vacancies  in 
the  Senate,  by  temporary  appointments;  which  not 
only  invalidates  the  supposition,  that  the  clause  be- 
fore considered  could  have  been  intended  to  confer 
that  power  upon  the  President  of  the  United  States, 
but  proves  that  this  supposition,  destitute  as  it  is 
even  of  the  merit  of  plausibility,  must  have  originated 
in  an  intention  to  deceive  the  people,  too  palpable 


176  Alexander  Hamilton 

to  be  obscured  by  sophistry,  too  atrocious  to  be 
palliated  by  hypocrisy. 

I  have  taken  the  pains  to  select  this  instance  of 
misrepresentation,  and  to  place  it  in  a  clear  and 
strong  light,  as  an  unequivocal  proof  of  the  unwar- 
rantable arts  which  are  practised  to  prevent  a  fair 
and  impartial  judgment  of  the  real  merits  of  the 
Constitution  submitted  to  the  consideration  of  the 
people.  Nor  have  I  scrupled,  in  so  flagrant  a  case, 
to  allow  myself  a  severity  of  animadversion  little  con- 
genial with  the  general  spirit  of  these  papers.  I 
hesitate  not  to  submit  it  to  the  decision  of  any  candid 
and  honest  adversary  of  the  proposed  government, 
whether  language  can  furnish  epithets  of  too  much 
asperity,  for  so  shameless  and  so  prostitute  an  at- 
tempt to  impose  on  the  citizens  of  America. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Friday,  March  14,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXVIII 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

The  mode  of  appointment  of  the  Chief  Magistrate 
of  the  United  States  is  almost  the  only  part  of  the 
system,  of  any  consequence,  which  has  escaped 
without  severe  censure,  or  which  has  received  the 
slightest  mark  of  approbation  from  its  opponents. 
The  most  plausible  of  these,  who  has  appeared  in 
print,  has  even  deigned  to  admit  that  the  election  of 
the  President   is  pretty  well  guarded.*     I  venture 

*  Vide  Federal  Farmer. — Publius. 


The  Federalist  i77 

somewhat  further,  and  hesitate  not  to  affirm,  that  if 
the  manner  of  it  be  not  perfect,  it  is  at  least  excellent. 
It  unites  in  an  eminent  degree  all  the  advantages, 
the  union  of  which  was  to  be  wished  for. 

It  was  desirable  that  the  sense  of  the  people  should 
operate  in  the  choice  of  the  person  to  whom  so  im- 
portant a  trust  was  to  be  confided.  This  end  will  be 
answered  by  committing  the  right  of  making  it,  not 
to  any  preestablished  body,  but  to  men  chosen  by 
the  people  for  the  special  purpose,  and  at  the  par- 
ticular conjuncture. 

It  was  equally  desirable,  that  the  immediate 
election  should  be  made  by  men  most  capable  of 
analyzing  the  qualities  adapted  to  the  station,  and 
acting  under  circumstances  favorable  to  deliberation, 
and  to  a  judicious  combination  of  all  the  reasons  and 
inducements  which  were  proper  to  govern  their 
choice.  A  small  number  of  persons,  selected  by 
their  fellow-citizens  from  the  general  mass,  will  be 
most  likely  to  possess  the  information  and  discern- 
ment requisite  to  such  complicated  investigations. 

It  was  also  peculiarly  desirable  to  afford  as  little 
opportunity  as  possible  to  tumult  and  disorder. 
This  evil  was  not  least  to  be  dreaded  in  the  election 
of  a  magistrate,  who  was  to  have  so  important  an 
agency  in  the  administration  of  the  government  as 
the  President  of  the  United  States.  But  the  pre- 
cautions which  have  been  so  happily  concerted  in  the 
system  under  consideration,  promise  an  effectual 
security  against  this  mischief.  The  choice  of  several, 
to  form  an  intermediate  body  of  electors,  will  be 
much  less  apt  to  convulse  the  community  with  any 


VOL.   XII.— 13. 


17^  Alexander  Hamilton 

extraordinary  or  violent  movements,  than  the  choice 
of  one  who  was  himself  to  be  the  final  object  of  the 
public  wishes.  And  as  the  electors,  chosen  in  each 
State,  are  to  assemble  and  vote  in  the  State  in  which 
they  are  chosen,  this  detached  and  divided  situation 
will  expose  them  much  less  to  heats  and  ferments, 
which  might  be  communicated  from  them  to  the 
people,  than  if  they  were  all  to  be  convened  at  one 
time,  in  one  place. 

Nothing  was  more  to  be  desired  than  that  every 
practicable  obstacle  should  be  opposed  to  cabal,  in- 
trigue, and  corruption.  These  most  deadly  adver- 
saries of  republican  government  might  naturally  have 
been  expected  to  make  their  approaches  from  more 
than  one  quarter,  but  chiefly  from  the  desire  in 
foreign  powers  to  gain  an  improper  ascendant  in  our 
councils.  How  could  they  better  gratify  this,  than 
by  raising  a  creature  of  their  own  to  the  chief  magis- 
tracy of  the  Union?  But  the  convention  have 
guarded  against  all  danger  of  this  sort,  with  the 
most  provident  and  judicious  attention.  They  have 
not  made  the  appointment  of  the  President  to  depend 
on  any  preexisting  bodies  of  men,  who  might  be 
tampered  with  beforehand  to  prostitute  their  votes; 
but  they  have  referred  it  in  the  first  instance  to  an 
immediate  act  of  the  people  of  America,  to  be  exerted 
in  the  choice  of  persons  for  the  temporary  and  sole 
purpose  of  making  the  appointment.  And  they  have 
excluded  from  eligibility  to  this  trust,  all  those  who 
from  situation  might  be  suspected  of  too  great  devo- 
tion to  the  President  in  office.  No  senator,  repre- 
sentative, or  other  person  holding  a  place  of  trust  or 


The  Federalist  i79 

profit  under  the  United  States,  can  be  of  the  numbers 
of  the  electors.  Thus  without  corrupting  the  body 
of  the  people,  the  immediate  agents  in  the  election 
will  at  least  enter  upon  the  task  free  from  any  sinister 
bias.  Their  transient  existence,  and  their  detached 
situation,  already  taken  notice  of,  afford  a  satisfac- 
tory prospect  of  their  continuing  so,  to  the  conclusion 
of  it.  The  business  of  corruption,  when  it  is  to  em- 
brace so  considerable  a  number  of  men,  requires  time 
as  well  as  means.  Nor  would  it  be  found  easy  sud- 
denly to  embark  them,  dispersed  as  they  would  be 
over  thirteen  States,  in  any  combinations  founded 
upon  motives,  which  though  they  could  not  properly 
be  denominated  corrupt,  might  yet  be  of  a  nature  to 
mislead  them  from  their  duty. 

Another  and  no  less  important  desideratum  was, 
that  the  Executive  should  be  independent  for  his 
continuance  in  office  on  all  but  the  people  them- 
selves. He  might  otherwise  be  tempted  to  sacrifice 
his  duty  to  his  complaisance  for  those  whose  favor 
was  necessary  to  the  duration  of  his  official  conse- 
quence. This  advantage  will  also  be  secured,  by 
making  his  reelection  to  depend  on  a  special  body 
of  representatives,  deputed  by  the  society  for  the 
single  purpose  of  making  the  important  choice. 

All  these  advantages  will  happily  combine  in  the 
plan  devised  by  the  convention;  which  is,  that  the 
people  of  each  State  shall  choose  a  number  of  per- 
sons as  electors,  equal  to  the  number  of  senators  and 
representatives  of  such  State  in  the  national  gov- 
ernment, who  shall  assemble  within  the  State,  and 
vote  for  some  fit  person  as  President.     Their  votes. 


i8o  Alexander  Hamilton 

thus  given,  are  to  be  transmitted  to  the  seat  of  the 
national  government,  and  the  person  who  may  hap- 
pen to  have  a  majority  of  the  whole  number  of  votes 
will  be  the  President.  But  as  a  majority  of  the 
votes  might  not  always  happen  to  centre  in  one  man, 
and  as  it  might  be  unsafe  to  permit  less  than  a  ma- 
jority to  be  conclusive,  it  is  provided  that,  in  such  a 
contingency,  the  House  of  Representatives  shall 
select  out  of  the  candidates  who  shall  have  the  five 
highest  number  of  votes,  the  man  who  in  their 
opinion  may  be  best  qualified  for  the  office. 

The  process  of  election  affords  a  moral  certainty, 
that  the  office  of  President  will  never  fall  to  the  lot 
of  any  man  who  is  not  in  an  eminent  degree  endowed 
with  the  requisite  qualifications.  Talents  for  low 
intrigue,  and  the  little  arts  of  popularity,  may  alone 
suffice  to  elevate  a  man  to  the  first  honors  in  a  single 
State ;  but  it  will  require  other  talents,  and  a  differ- 
ent kind  of  merit,  to  establish  him  in  the  esteem 
and  confidence  of  the  whole  Union,  or  of  so  consider- 
able a  portion  of  it  as  would  be  necessary  to  make 
him  a  successful  candidate  for  the  distinguished 
office  of  President  of  the  United  States.  It  will  not 
be  too  strong  to  say,  that  there  will  be  a  constant 
probability  of  seeing  the  station  filled  by  characters 
preeminent  for  ability  and  virtue.  And  this  will  be 
thought  no  inconsiderable  recommendation  of  the 
Constitution,  by  those  who  are  able  to  estimate  the 
share  which  the  executive  in  every  government  must 
necessarily  have  in  its  good  or  ill  administration. 
Though  we  cannot  acquiesce  in  the  political  heresy 
of  the  poet  who  says: 


The  Federalist  i8i 

"  For  forms  of  government  let  fools  contest- 
That  which  is  best  administered  is  best, — " 

yet  we  may  safely  pronounce,  that  the  true  test  of  a 
good  government  is  its  aptitude  and  tendency  to 
produce  a  good  administration. 

The  Vice-President  is  to  be  chosen  in  the  same 
manner  with  the  President ;  with  this  difference,  that 
the  Senate  is  to  do,  in  respect  to  the  former,  what 
is  to  be  done  by  the  House  of  Representatives,  in 
respect  to  the  latter. 

The  appointment  of  an  extraordinary  person,  as 
Vice-President,  has  been  objected  to  as  superfluous, 
if  not  mischievous.  It  has  been  alleged,  that  it 
would  have  been  preferable  to  have  authorized  the 
Senate  to  elect  out  of  their  own  body  an  officer 
answering  that  description.  But  two  considera- 
tions seem  to  justify  the  ideas  of  the  convention  in 
this  respect.  One  is,  that  to  secure  at  all  times  the 
possibility  of  a  definite  resolution  of  the  body,  it  is 
necessary  that  the  President  should  have  only  a 
casting  vote.  And  to  take  the  senator  of  any  State 
from  his  seat  as  senator,  to  place  him  in  that  of 
President  of  the  Senate,  would  be  to  exchange,  in 
regard  to  the  State  from  which  he  came,  a  constant 
for  a  contingent  vote.  The  other  consideration  is, 
that  as  the  Vice-President  may  occasionally  become 
a  substitute  for  the  President,  in  the  supreme  execu- 
tive magistracy,  all  the  reasons  which  recommend 
the  mode  of  election  prescribed  for  the  one,  apply 
with  great  if  not  with  equal  force  to  the  manner  of 
appointing  the  other.  It  is  remarkable  that  in  this, 
as  in  most  other  instances,  the  objection  which  is 


1 82  Alexander  Hamilton 

made  would  lie  against  the  constitution  of  this 
State.  We  have  a  Lieutenant-Governor,  chosen  by 
the  people  at  large,  who  presides  in  the  Senate,  and 
is  the  constitutional  substitute  for  the  Governor,  in 
casualties  similar  to  those  which  would  authorize 
the  Vice-President  to  exercise  the  authorities  and 
discharge  the  duties  of  the  President. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Friday,  March  14,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXIX 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

I  proceed  now  to  trace  the  real  characters  of  the 
proposed  Executive,  as  they  are  marked  out  in  the 
plan  of  the  convention.  This  will  serve  to  place  in 
a  strong  light  the  unfairness  of  the  representations 
which  have  been  made  in  regard  to  it. 

The  first  thing  which  strikes  our  attention  is,  that 
the  executive  authority,  with  few  exceptions,  is  to 
be  vested  in  a  single  magistrate.  This  will  scarcely, 
however,  be  considered  as  a  point  upon  which  any 
comparison  can  be  grounded;  for  if,  in  this  par- 
ticular, there  be  a  resemblance  to  the  king  of  Great 
Britain,  there  is  not  less  a  resemblance  to  the  Grand 
Seignior,  to  the  khan  of  Tartary,  to  the  Man  of  the 
Seven  Mountains,  or  to  the  governor  of  New  York. 

That  magistrate  is  to  be  elected  for  four  years ;  and 
is  to  be  reeligible  as  often  as  the  people  of  the  United 
States  shall  think  him  worthy  of  their  confidence. 
In  these  circumstances  there  is  a  total  dissimilitude 


The  Federalist  183 

between  him  and  a  king  of  Great  Britain,  who  is  an 
hereditary  monarch,  possessing  the  crown  as  a  patri- 
mony descendible  to  his  heirs  forever;  but  there  is  a 
close  analogy  between  him  and  a  governor  of  New 
York,  who  is  elected  for  three  years,  and  is  reeligible 
without  limitation  or  intermission.  If  we  consider 
how  much  less  time  would  be  requisite  for  establish- 
ing a  dangerous  influence  in  a  single  State,  than  for 
establishing  a  like  influence  throughout  the  United 
States,  we  must  conclude  that  a  duration  of  four 
years  for  the  Chief  Magistrate  of  the  Union  is  a  de- 
gree of  permanency  far  less  to  be  dreaded  in  that 
ofhce,  than  a  duration  of  three  years  for  a  corre- 
sponding ofhce  in  a  single  State. 

The  President  of  the  United  States  would  be 
liable  to  be  impeached,  tried,  and,  upon  conviction 
of  treason,  bribery,  or  other  high  crimes  or  misde- 
meanors, removed  from  ofhce;  and  would  afterwards 
be  liable  to  prosecution  and  punishment  in  the  ordi- 
nary course  of  law.  The  person  of  the  king  of  Great 
Britain  is  sacred  and  inviolable;  there  is  no  con- 
stitutional tribunal  to  which  he  is  amenable;  no 
punishment  to  which  he  can  be  subjected  without 
involving  the  crisis  of  a  national  revolution.  In  this 
delicate  and  important  circumstance  of  personal 
responsibility,  the  President  of  Confederated  Amer- 
ica would  stand  upon  no  better  ground  than  a  gov- 
ernor of  New  York,  and  upon  worse  ground  than  the 
governors  of  Maryland  and  Delaware. 

The  President  of  the  United  States  is  to  have 
power  to  return  a  bill,  which  shall  have  passed  the 
two  branches  of  the  legislature,  for  reconsideration; 


184  Alexander  Hamilton 

and  the  bill  so  returned  is  to  become  a  law,  if,  upon 
that  reconsideration,  it  be  approved  by  two  thirds  of 
both  houses.  The  king  of  Great  Britain,  on  his  part, 
has  an  absolute  negative  upon  the  acts  of  the  two 
houses  of  Parliament.  The  disuse  of  that  power  for 
a  considerable  time  past  does  not  affect  the  reality 
of  its  existence;  and  is  to  be  ascribed  wholly  to  the 
crown's  having  found  the  means  of  substituting  in- 
fluence to  authority,  or  the  art  of  gaining  a  majority 
in  one  or  the  other  of  the  two  houses,  to  the  necessity 
of  exerting  a  prerogative  which  could  seldom  be 
exerted  without  hazarding  some  degree  of  national 
agitation.  The  qualified  negative  of  the  President 
differs  widely  from  this  absolute  negative  of  the 
British  sovereign;  and  tallies  exactly  with  the  re- 
visionary  authority  of  the  council  of  revision  of  this 
State,  of  which  the  governor  is  a  constituent  part. 
In  this  respect  the  power  of  the  President  would 
exceed  that  of  the  governor  of  New  York,  because 
the  former  would  possess,  singly,  what  the  latter 
shares  with  the  chancellor  and  judges;  but  it  would 
be  precisely  the  same  with  that  of  the  governor  of 
Massachusetts,  whose  constitution,  as  to  this  article, 
seems  to  have  been  the  original  from  which  the  con- 
vention have  copied. 

The  President  is  to  be  the  "  commander-in-chief  of 
the  army  and  navy  of  the  United  States,  and  of  the 
militia  of  the  several  States,  when  called  into  the 
actual  service  of  the  United  States.  He  is  to  have 
power  to  grant  reprieves  and  pardons  for  offences 
against  the  United  States,  except  in  cases  of  im- 
peachment;   to  recommend  to  the  consideration  of 


The  Federalist  185 

Congress  such  measures  as  he  shall  judge  necessary 
and  expedient;  to  convene,  on  extraordinary  occa- 
sions, both  houses  of  the  legislature,  or  either  of 
them,  and,  in  case  of  disagreement  between  them 
with  respect  to  the  time  of  adjournment,  to  adjourn 
them  to  such  time  as  he  shall  think  proper;  to  take 
care  that  the  laws  be  faithfully  executed ;  and  to  com- 
mission all  officers  of  the  United  States."  In  most 
of  these  particulars,  the  power  of  the  President  will 
resemble  equally  that  of  the  king  of  Great  Britain 
and  of  the  governor  of  New  York.  The  most  ma- 
terial points  of  difference  are  these: — First.  The 
President  will  have  only  the  occasional  command  of 
such  part  of  the  militia  of  the  nation  as  by  legisla- 
tive provision  may  be  called  into  the  actual  service 
of  the  Union.  The  king  of  Great  Britain  and  the 
governor  of  New  York  have  at  all  times  the  entire 
command  of  all  the  militia  within  their  several  juris- 
dictions. In  this  article,  therefore,  the  power  of  the 
President  would  be  inferior  to  that  of  either  the 
monarch  or  the  governor.  Secondly.  The  President 
is  to  be  commander-in-chief  of  the  army  and  navy 
of  the  United  States.  In  this  respect  his  authority 
would  be  nominally  the  same  with  that  of  the  king 
of  Great  Britain,  but  in  substance  much  inferior  to 
it.  It  would  amount  to  nothing  more  than  the  su- 
preme command  and  direction  of  the  military  and 
naval  forces,  as  first  General  and  admiral  of  the 
Confederacy;  while  that  of  the  British  king  extends 
to  the  declaring  of  war  and  to  the  raising  and  regu- 
lating of  fleets  and  armies, — all  which,  by  the  Con- 
stitution under  consideration,  would  appertain  to  the 


1 86  Alexander  Hamilton 

legislature.'  The  governor  of  New  York,  on  the 
other  hand,  is  by  the  constitution  of  the  State  vested 
only  with  the  command  of  its  militia  and  navy. 
But  the  constitutions  of  several  of  the  States  ex- 
pressly declare  their  governors  to  be  commanders- 
in-chief,  as  well  of  the  army  as  navy ;  and  it  may  well 
be  a  question,  v/hether  those  of  New  Hampshire  and 
Massachusetts,  in  particular,  do  not,  in  this  instance, 
confer  larger  powers  upon  their  respective  governors, 
than  could  be  claimed  by  a  President  of  the  United 
States.  Thirdly.  The  power  of  the  President,  in  re- 
spect to  pardons,  would  extend  to  all  cases,  except 
those  of  impeachment.  The  governor  of  New  York 
may  pardon  in  all  cases,  even  in  those  of  impeach- 
ment, except  for  treason  and  murder.  Is  not  the 
power  of  the  governor,  in  this  article,  on  a  calculation 
of  political  consequences,  greater  than  that  of  the 
President?  All  conspiracies  and  plots  against  the 
government,  which  have  not  been  matured  into 
actual  treason,  may  be  screened  from  punishment 
of  every  kind,  by  the  interposition  of  the  prerogative 

^  A  writer  in  a  Pennsylvania  paper,  tinder  the  signature  of  Tamony, 
has  asserted  that  the  king  of  Great  Britain  owes  his  prerogative  as 
commander-in-chief  to  an  annual  mutiny  bill.  The  truth  is,  on  the 
contrary,  that  his  prerogative,  in  this  respect,  is  immemorial,  and  was 
only  disputed,  "contrary  to  all  reason  and  precedent,"  as  Blackstone, 
vol.  i.,  page  262,  expresses  it,  by  the  Long  Parliament  of  Charles  I.; 
but  by  the  statute  the  13th  of  Charles  II.,  chap.  6,  it  was  declared  to 
be  in  the  king  alone,  for  that  the  sole  supreme  government  and  com- 
mand of  the  militia  within  his  Majesty's  realms  and  dominions,  and 
of  all  forces  by  sea  and  land,  and  of  all  forts  and  places  of  strength, 
EVER  WAS  AND  IS  the  Undoubted  right  of  his  Majesty  and  his  royal 
predecessors,  kings  and  queens  of  England,  and  that  both  or  either 
house  of  Parliament  cannot  nor  ought  to  pretend  to  the  same. — 

PUBLIUS. 


The  Federalist  187 

of  pardoning.  If  a  governor  of  New  York,  therefore, 
should  be  at  the  head  of  any  such  conspiracy,  until 
the  design  had  been  ripened  into  actual  hostility  he 
could  insure  his  accomplices  and  adherents  an  entire 
impunity.  A  President  of  the  Union,  on  the  other 
hand,  though  he  may  even  pardon  treason,  when 
prosecuted  in  the  ordinary  course  of  law,  could  shel- 
ter no  offender,  in  any  degree,  from  the  effects  of  im- 
peachment and  conviction.  Would  not  the  prospect 
of  a  total  indemnity  for  all  the  preliminary  steps  be  a 
greater  temptation  to  undertake  and  persevere  in  an 
enterprise  against  the  public  liberty,  than  the  mere 
prospect  of  an  exemption  from  death  and  confisca- 
tion, if  the  final  execution  of  the  design,  upon  an 
actual  appeal  to  arms,  should  miscarry  ?  Would  this 
last  expectation  have  any  influence  at  all,  when  the 
probability  was  computed,  that  the  person  who  was 
to  afford  that  exemption  might  himself  be  involved 
in  the  consequences  of  the  measure,  and  might  be 
incapacitated  by  his  agency  in  it  from  affording 
the  desired  impunity  ?  The  better  to  judge  of  this 
matter,  it  will  be  necessary  to  recollect,  that,  by  the 
proposed  Constitution,  the  offence  of  treason  is  lim- 
ited '*  to  levying  war  upon  the  United  States,  and 
adhering  to  their  enemies,  giving  them  aid  and 
comfort";  and  that  by  the  laws  of  New  York  it  is 
confined  within  similar  bounds.  Fourthly.  The  Presi- 
dent can  only  adjourn  the  national  legislature  in  the 
single  case  of  disagreement  about  the  time  of  ad- 
journment. The  British  monarch  may  prorogue  or 
even  dissolve  the  Parliament.  The  governor  of  New 
York  may  also  prorogue  the  legislature  of  this  State 


i88  Alexander  Hamilton 

for  a  limited  time;  a  power  which,  in  certain  situa- 
tions, may  be  employed  to  very  important  purposes. 
The  President  is  to  have  power,  with  the  advice 
and  consent  of  the  Senate,  to  make  treaties,  pro- 
vided two  thirds  of  the  senators  present  concur. 

:  The  king  of  Great  Britain  is  the  sole  and  absolute  re- 
presentative of  the  nation  in  all  foreign  transactions. 
He  can  of  his  own  accord  make  treaties  of  peace, 
commerce,  alliance,  and  of  every  other  description. 
It  has  been  insinuated,  that  his  authority  in  this 
respect  is  not  conclusive,  and  that  his  conventions 
with  foreign  powers  are  subject  to  the  revision,  and 
stand  in  need  of  the  ratification,  of  Parliament. 
But  I  believe  this  doctrine  was  never  heard  of,  until 
it  was  broached  upon  the  present  occasion.  Every 
jurist '  of  that  kingdom,  and  every  other  man  ac- 
quainted with  its  Constitution,  knows,  as  an  estab- 
lished fact,  that  the  prerogative  of  making  treaties 
exists  in  the  crown  in  its  utmost  plentitude;  and 
that  the  compacts  entered  into  by  the  royal  author- 
ity have  the  most  complete  legal  validity  and  per- 
fection, independent  of  any  other  sanction.  The 
Parliament,  it  is  true,  is  sometimes  seen  employing 
itself  in  altering  the  existing  laws  to  conform  them 
to  the  stipulations  in  a  new  treaty;    and  this  may 

^  have  possibly  given  birth  to  the  imagination,  that 
its  cooperation  was  necessary  to  the  obligatory 
efficacy  of  the  treaty.  But  this  parliamentary  in- 
terposition proceeds  from  a  different  cause:  from 
the  necessity  of  adjusting  a  most  artificial  and  in- 
tricate system  of  revenue  and  commercial  laws,  to 

^  Vide  Blackstone's  Commentaries,  vol.  i.,  p.  257. — Publius. 


The  Federalist  189 

the  changes  made  in  them  by  the  operation  of  the 
treaty;  and  of  adapting  new  provisions  and  precau- 
tions to  the  new  state  of  things,  to  keep  the  machine 
from  running  into  disorder.  In  this  respect,  there- 
fore, there  is  no  comparison  between  the  intended 
power  of  the  President  and  the  actual  power  of  the 
British  sovereign.  The  one  can  perform  alone  what 
the  other  can  do  only  with  the  concurrence  of  a 
branch  of  the  legislature.  It  must  be  admitted,  that, 
in  this  instance,  the  power  of  the  federal  Executive 
would  exceed  that  of  any  State  Executive.  But 
this  arises  naturally  from  the  sovereign  power  which 
relates  to  treaties.  If  the  Confederacy  were  to  be 
dissolved,  it  would  become  a  question,  whether  the 
Executives  of  the  several  States  were  not  solely  in- 
vested with  that  delicate  and  important  prerogative. 

The  President  is  also  to  be  authorized  to  receive 
ambassadors  and  other  public  ministers.  This, 
though  it  has  been  a  rich  theme  of  declamation,  is 
more  a  matter  of  dignity  than  of  authority.  It  is  a 
circumstance  which  will  be  without  consequence  in 
the  administration  of  the  government;  and  it  was 
far  more  convenient  that  it  should  be  arranged  in 
this  manner,  than  that  there  should  be  a  necessity 
of  convening  the  legislature,  or  one  of  its  branches, 
upon  every  arrival  of  a  foreign  minister,  though  it 
were  merely  to  take  the  place  of  a  departed  prede- 
cessor. 

The  President  is  to  nominate,  and,  with  the  advice 
and  consent  of  the  Senate^  to  appoint  ambassadors 
and  other  public  ministers,  judges  of  the  Supreme 
Court,  and  in  general  all  officers  of  the  United  States 


iQO  Alexander  Hamilton 

established  by  law,  and  whose  appointments  are 
not  otherwise  provided  for  by  the  Constitution.  The 
king  of  Great  Britain  is  emphatically  and  truly 
styled  the  fountain  of  honor.  He  not  only  appoints 
to  all  offices,  but  can  create  offices.  He  can  confer 
titles  of  nobility  at  pleasure;  and  has  the  disposal 
of  an  immense  number  of  church  preferments. 
There  is  evidently  a  great  inferiority  in  the  power  of 
the  President,  in  this  particular,  to  that  of  the  Brit- 
ish king;  nor  is  it  equal  to  that  of  the  governor  of 
New  York,  if  we  are  to  interpret  the  meaning  of  the 
constitution  of  the  State  by  the  practice  which  has 
obtained  under  it.  The  power  of  appointment  is 
with  us  lodged  in  a  council,  composed  of  the  governor 
and  four  members  of  the  Senate,  chosen  by  the  As- 
sembly. The  governor  claims,  and  has  frequently 
exercised,  the  right  of  nomination,  and  is  entitled  to 
a  casting  vote  in  the  appointment.  If  he  really  has 
the  right  of  nominating,  his  authority  is  in  this  re- 
spect equal  to  that  of  the  President,  and  exceeds  it 
in  the  article  of  the  casting  vote.  In  the  national 
government,  if  the  Senate  should  be  divided,  no  ap- 
pointment could  be  made;  in  the  government  of 
New  York,  if  the  council  should  be  divided,  the 
governor  can  turn  the  scale,  and  confirm  his  own 
nomination.^     If  we  compare  the  publicity  which 

'  Candor,  however,  demands  an  acknowledgment  that  I  do  not  think 
the  claim  of  the  governor  to  a  right  of  nomination  well  founded.  Yet 
it  is  always  justifiable  to  reason  from  the  practice  of  a  government, 
till  its  propriety  has  been  constitutionally  questioned.  And  inde- 
pendent of  this  claim,  when  we  take  into  view  the  other  considerations, 
and  pursue  them  through  all  their  consequences,  we  shall  be  inclined 
to  draw  much  the  same  conclusion. — Publius. 


The  Federalist  191 

must  necessarily  attend  the  mode  of  appointment  by 
the  President  and  an  entire  branch  of  the  national 
legislature,  with  the  privacy  in  the  mode  of  appoint- 
ment by  the  governor  of  New  York,  closeted  in  a 
secret  apartment  with  at  most  four,  and  frequently 
with  only  two  persons;  and  if  we  at  the  same  time 
consider  how  much  more  easy  it  must  be  to  influence 
the  small  number  of  which  a  council  of  appointment 
consists,  than  the  considerable  number  of  which  the 
national  Senate  would  consist,  we  cannot  hesitate  to 
pronounce  that  the  power  of  the  chief  magistrate  of 
this  State,  in  the  disposition  of  offices,  must,  in  prac- 
tice, be  greatly  superior  to  that  of  the  Chief  Magis- 
trate of  the  Union. 

Hence  it  appears  that,  except  as  to  the  concurrent 
authority  of  the  President  in  the  article  of  treaties, 
it  would  be  difficult  to  determine  whether  that 
magistrate  would,  in  the  aggregate,  possess  more  or 
less  power  than  the  Governor  of  New  York.  And  it 
appears  yet  more  unequivocally,  that  there  is  no 
pretence  for  the  parallel  which  has  been  attempted 
between  him  and  the  king  of  Great  Britain.  But 
to  render  the  contrast  in  this  respect  still  more  strik- 
ing, it  may  be  of  use  to  throw  the  principal  circum- 
stances of  dissimilitude  into  a  closer  group. 

The  President  of  the  United  States  would  be  an 
officer  elected  by  the  people  for  four  years ;  the  king 
of  Great  Britain  is  a  perpetual  and  hereditary  prince. 
The  one  would  be  amenable  to  personal  punishment 
and  disgrace;  the  person  of  the  other  is  sacred  and 
inviolable.  The  one  would  have  a  qualified  nega- 
tive upon  the  acts  of  the  legislative  body;  the  other 


192  Alexander  Hamilton 

has  an  absolute  negative.  The  one  would  have  a 
right  to  command  the  military  and  naval  forces  of 
the  nation ;  the  other,  in  addition  to  this  right, 
possesses  that  of  declaring  war,  and  of  raising  and 
regulating  fleets  and  armies  by  his  own  authority. 
The  one  would  have  a  concurrent  power  with  a 
branch  of  the  legislature  in  the  formation  of  treaties ; 
the  other  is  the  sole  possessor  of  the  power  of  making 
treaties.  The  one  would  have  a  like  concurrent 
authority  in  appointing  to  offices;  the  other  is  the 
sole  author  of  all  appointments.  The  one  can  con- 
fer no  privileges  whatever:  the  other  can  make 
denizens  of  aliens,  noblemen  of  commoners;  can 
erect  corporations  with  all  the  rights  incident  to 
corporate  bodies.  The  one  can  prescribe  no  rules 
concerning  the  commerce  or  currency  of  the  nation ; 
the  other  is  in  several  respects  the  arbiter  of  com- 
merce, and  in  this  capacity  can  establish  markets 
and  fairs,  can  regulate  weights  and  measures,  can 
lay  embargoes  for  a  limited  time,  can  coin  money, 
can  authorize  or  prohibit  the  circulation  of  foreign 
coin.  The  one  has  no  particle  of  spiritual  jurisdic- 
tion ;  the  other  is  the  supreme  head  and  governor  of 
the  national  church !  What  answer  shall  we  give  to 
those  who  would  persuade  us  that  things  so  unlike 
resemble  each  other?  The  same  that  ought  to  be 
given  to  those  who  tell  us  that  a  government,  the 
whole  power  of  which  would  be  in  the  hands  of  the 
elective  and  periodical  servants  of  the  people,  is  an 
aristocracy,  a  monarchy,  and  a  despotism. 

PUBLIUS. 


The  Federalist  193 

From  the  New  York  Packet,  Tuesday,  March  18,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXX 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

There  is  an  idea,  which  is  not  without  its  advo- 
cates, that  a  vigorous  Executive  is  inconsistent  with 
the  genius  of  repubHcan  government.  The  en- 
Hghtened  well-wishers  to  this  species  of  government 
must  at  least  hope  that  the  supposition  is  destitute 
of  foundation;  since  they  can  never  admit  its  truth, 
without  at  the  same  time  admitting  the  condemna- 
tion of  their  own  principles.  Energy  in  the  Execu- 
tive is  a  leading  character  in  the  definition  of  good 
government.  It  is  essential  to  the  protection  of  the 
community  against  foreign  attacks;  it  is  not  less 
essential  to  the  steady  administration  of  the  laws; 
to  the  protection  of  property  against  those  irregular 
and  high-handed  combinations  which  sometimes  in- 
terrupt the  ordinary  course  of  justice ;  to  the  secur- 
ity of  liberty  against  the  enterprises  and  assaults  of 
ambition,  of  faction,  and  of  anarchy.  Every  man 
the  least  conversant  in  Roman  story,  knows  how 
often  that  republic  was  obliged  to  take  refuge  in  the 
absolute  power  of  a  single  man,  under  the  formidable 
title  of  Dictator,  as  well  against  the  intrigues  of 
ambitious  individuals  who  aspired  to  the  tyranny, 
and  the  seditions  of  whole  classes  of  the  community 
whose  conduct  threatened  the  existence  of  all  gov- 
ernment, as  against  the  invasions  of  external  ene- 
mies who  menaced  the  conquest  and  destruction  of 
Rome. 

VOL.  XII. — 13. 


194  Alexander  Hamilton 

There  can  be  no  need,  however,  to  mutliply  argu- 
ments or  examples  on  this  head.  A  feeble  Execu- 
tive implies  a  feeble  execution  of  the  government. 
A  feeble  execution  is  but  another  phrase  for  a  bad 
execution ;  and  a  government  ill  executed,  whatever 
it  may  be  in  theory,  must  be,  in  practice,  a  bad 
government. 

Taking  it  for  granted,  therefore,  that  all  men  of 
sense  will  agree  in  the  necessity  of  an  energetic  Ex- 
ecutive, it  will  only  remain  to  inquire,  what  are  the 
ingredients  which  constitute  this  energy?  How  far 
can  they  be  combined  with  those  other  ingredients 
which  constitute  safety  in  the  republican  sense? 
And  how  far  does  this  combination  characterize  the 
plan  which  has  been  reported  by  the  convention  ? 

The  ingredients  which  constitute  energy  in  the 
Executive  are,  first,  imity;  secondly,  duration; 
thirdly,  an  adequate  provision  for  its  support; 
fourthly,  competent  powers. 

The  ingredients  which  constitute  safety  in  the 
republican  sense  are,  first,  a  due  dependence  on  the 
people;  secondly,  a  due  responsibility. 

Those  politicians  and  statesmen  who  have  been  the 
most  celebrated  for  the  soundness  of  their  principles 
and  for  the  justice  of  their  views,  have  declared  in 
favor  of  a  single  Executive  and  a  numerous  legisla- 
ture. They  have,  with  great  propriety,  considered 
energy  as  the  most  necessary  qualification  of  the 
former,  and  have  regarded  this  as  most  applicable 
to  power  in  a  single  hand;  while  they  have,  with 
equal  propriety,  considered  the  latter  as  best  ad- 
apted to  deliberation  and  wisdom,  and  best  calcu- 


The  Federalist  195 

lated  to  conciliate  the  confidence  of  the  people  and 
to  secure  their  privileges  and  interests. 

That  unity  is  conducive  to  energy  will  not  be  dis- 
puted. Decision,  activity,  secrecy,  and  despatch 
will  generally  characterize  the  proceedings  of  one 
man  in  a  much  more  eminent  degree  than  the  pro- 
ceedings of  any  greater  number ;  and  in  proportion  as 
the  number  is  increased,  these  qualities  will  be 
diminished. 

This  unity  may  be  destroyed  in  two  ways :  either 
by  vesting  the  power  in  two  or  more  magistrates  of 
equal  dignity  and  authority ;  or  by  vesting  it  ostensi- 
bly in  one  man,  subject,  in  whole  or  in  part,  to  the 
control  and  cooperation  of  others,  in  the  capacity  of 
counsellors  to  him.  Of  the  first,  the  two  Consuls  of 
Rome  may  serve  as  an  example;  of  the  last,  we  shall 
find  examples  in  the  constitutions  of  several  of  the 
States.  New  York  and  New  Jersey,  if  I  recollect 
right,  are  the  only  States  which  have  intrusted  the 
executive  authority  wholly  to  single  men.'  Both 
these  methods  of  destroying  the  unity  of  the  Execu- 
tive have  their  partisans ;  but  the  votaries  of  an  ex- 
ecutive council  are  the  most  numerous.  They  are 
both  liable,  if  not  to  equal,  to  similar  objections,  and 
may  in  most  lights  be  examined  in  conjunction. 

The  experience  of  other  nations  will  afford  little 
instruction  on  this  head.  As  far,  however,  as  it 
teaches  any  thing,  it  teaches  us  not  to  be  enamoured 
of  plurality  in  the  Executive.     We  have  seen  that 

^  New  York  has  no  council  except  for  the  single  purpose  of  appoint- 
ing to  offices;  New  Jersey  has  a  council  whom  the  governor  may  con- 
sult. But  I  think,  from  the  terms  of  the  constitution,  their  resolutions 
do  not  bind  him. — Publius. 


196  Alexander  Hamilton 

the  Achaeans,  on  an  experiment  of  two  Praetors,  were 
induced  to  abolish  one.  The  Roman  history  records 
many  instances  of  mischiefs  to  the  repubhc  from  the 
dissensions  between  the  Consuls,  and  between  the 
military  Tribunes,  who  were  at  times  substituted 
for  the  Consuls.  But  it  gives  us  no  specimens  of  any 
peculiar  advantages  derived  to  the  state  from  the 
circumstance  of  the  plurality  of  those  magistrates. 
That  the  dissensions  between  them  were  not  more 
frequent  or  more  fatal,  is  matter  of  astonishment, 
until  we  advert  to  the  singular  position  in  which  the 
republic  was  almost  continually  placed,  and  to  the 
prudent  policy  pointed  out  by  the  circumstances  of 
the  state,  and  pursued  by  the  Consuls,  of  making  a 
division  of  the  government  between  them.  The 
patricians  engaged  in  a  perpetual  struggle  with 
the  plebeians  for  the  preservation  of  their  ancient 
authorities  and  dignities;  the  Consuls,  who  were 
generally  chosen  out  of  the  former  body,  were  com- 
monly united  by  the  personal  interest  they  had  in 
the  defence  of  the  privileges  of  their  order.  In  addi- 
tion to  this  motive  of  union,  after  the  arms  of  the 
republic  had  considerably  expanded  the  bounds  of 
its  empire,  it  became  an  established  custom  with  the 
Consuls  to  divide  the  administration  between  them- 
selves by  lot — one  of  them  remaining  at  Rome  to 
govern  the  city  and  its  environs,  the  other  taking 
the  command  in  the  more  distant  provinces.  This 
expedient  must,  no  doubt,  have  had  great  influence 
in  preventing  those  collisions  and  rivalships  which 
might  otherwise  have  embroiled  the  peace  of  the 
republic. 


The  Federalist  197 

But  quitting  the  dim  Hght  of  historical  research, 
attaching  ourselves  purely  to  the  dictates  of  reason 
and  good  sense,  we  shall  discover  much  greater 
cause  to  reject  than  to  approve  the  idea  of  plurality 
in  the  Executive,  under  any  modification  what- 
ever. 

Wherever  two  or  more  persons  are  engaged  in  any 
common  enterprise  or  pursuit,  there  is  always  danger 
of  difference  of  opinion.  If  it  be  a  public  trust  or 
office,  in  which  they  are  clothed  with  equal  dignity 
and  authority,  there  is  peculiar  danger  of  personal 
emulation  and  even  animosity.  From  either,  and 
especially  from  all  these  causes,  the  most  bitter  dis- 
sensions are  apt  to  spring.  Whenever  these  happen, 
they  lessen  the  respectability,  weaken  the  authority, 
and  distract  the  plans  and  operations  of  those  whom 
they  divide.  If  they  should  unfortunately  assail  the 
supreme  executive  magistracy  of  a  country,  con- 
sisting of  a  plurality  of  persons,  they  might  impede 
or  frustrate  the  most  important  measures  of  the  gov- 
ernment, in  the  most  critical  emergencies  of  the 
state.  And  what  is  still  worse,  they  might  split  the 
community  into  the  most  violent  and  irreconcilable 
factions,  adhering  differently  to  the  different  indi- 
viduals who  composed  the  magistracy. 

Men  often  oppose  a  thing,  merely  because  they 
have  had  no  agency  in  planning  it,  or  because  it  may 
have  been  planned  by  those  whom  they  dislike.  But 
if  they  have  been  consulted,  and  have  happened  to 
disapprove,  opposition  then  becomes,  in  their  esti- 
mation, an  indispensable  duty  of  self-love.  They 
seem  to  think  themselves  boimd  in  honor,  and  by 


1 98  Alexander  Hamilton 

all  the  motives  of  personal  infallibility,  to  defeat  the 
success  of  what  has  been  resolved  upon  contrary  to 
their  sentiments.  Men  of  upright,  benevolent  tem- 
pers have  too  many  opportunities  of  remarking,  with 
horror,  to  what  desperate  lengths  this  disposition  is 
sometimes  carried,  and  how  often  the  great  interests 
of  society  are  sacrificed  to  the  vanity,  to  the  conceit, 
and  to  the  obstinacy  of  individuals,  who  have  credit 
enough  to  make  their  passions  and  their  caprices 
interesting  to  mankind.  Perhaps  the  question  now 
before  the  public  may,  in  its  consequences,  afford 
melancholy  proofs  of  the  effects  of  this  despicable 
frailty,  or  rather  detestable  vice,  in  the  human 
character. 

Upon  the  principles  of  a  free  government,  incon- 
veniences from  the  source  just  mentioned  must 
necessarily  be  submitted  to  in  the  formation  of  the 
legislature ;  but  it  is  unnecessary,  and  therefore  un- 
wise, to  introduce  them  into  the  constitution  of  the 
Executive.  It  is  here  too  that  they  may  be  most 
pernicious.  In  the  legislature,  promptitude  of  de- 
cision is  oftener  an  evil  than  a  benefit.  The  differ- 
ences of  opinion,  and  the  jarrings  of  parties  in  that 
department  of  the  government,  though  they  may 
sometimes  obstruct  salutary  plans,  yet  often  pro- 
mote deliberation  and  circumspection,  and  serve  to 
check  excesses  in  the  majority.  When  a  resolution 
too  is  once  taken,  the  opposition  must  be  at  an  end. 
That  resolution  is  a  law,  and  resistance  to  it  punish- 
able. But  no  favorable  circumstances  palliate  or 
atone  for  the  disadvantages  of  dissension  in  the 
executive  department.     Here,  they  are  pure  and  un- 


The  Federalist  199 

mixed.  There  is  no  point  at  which  they  cease  to 
operate.  They  serve  to  embarrass  and  weaken  the 
execution  of  the  plan  or  measures  to  which  they  re- 
late, from  the  first  step  to  the  final  conclusion  of  it. 
They  constantly  counteract  those  qualities  in  the 
Executive  which  are  the  most  necessary  ingredients 
in  its  composition, — vigor  and  expedition,  and  this 
without  any  counterbalancing  good.  In  the  conduct 
of  war,  in  which  the  energy  of  the  Executive  is  the 
bulwark  of  the  national  security,  every  thing  would 
be  to  be  apprehended  from  its  plurality. 

It  must  be  confessed  that  these  observations  apply 
with  principal  weight  to  the  first  case  supposed — 
that  is,  to  a  plurality  of  magistrates  of  equal  dignity 
and  authority,  a  scheme,  the  advocates  for  which 
are  not  likely  to  form  a  numerous  sect;  but  they 
apply,  though  not  with  equal,  yet  with  considerable 
weight  to  the  project  of  a  council,  whose  concurrence 
is  made  constitutionally  necessary  to  the  operations 
of  the  ostensible  Executive.  An  artful  cabal  in  that 
council  would  be  able  to  distract  and  to  enervate  the 
whole  system  of  administration.  If  no  such  cabal 
should  exist,  the  mere  diversity  of  views  and  opinions 
would  alone  be  sufficient  to  tincture  the  exercise  of 
the  executive  authority  with  a  spirit  of  habitual 
feebleness  and  dilatoriness. 

But  one  of  the  weightiest  objections  to  a  plurality 
in  the  Executive,  and  which  lies  as  much  against 
the  last  as  the  first  plan,  is,  that  it  tends  to  conceal 
faults  and  destroy  responsibility.  Responsibility  is 
of  two  kinds — to  censure  and  to  punishment.  The 
first  is  the  more  important  of  the  two,  especially  in 


200  Alexander  Hamilton 

an  elective  office.  Man,  in  public  trust,  will  much 
oftener  act  in  such  a  manner  as  to  render  him  un- 
worthy of  being  any  longer  trusted,  than  in  such  a 
manner  as  to  make  him  obnoxious  to  legal  punish- 
ment. But  the  multiplication  of  the  Executive  adds 
to  the  difficulty  of  detection  in  either  case.  It  often 
becomes  impossible,  amidst  mutual  accusations,  to 
determme  on  whom  the  blame  or  the  punishment  of 
a  pernicious  measure,  or  series  of  pernicious  measures 
ought  really  to  fall.  It  is  shifted  from  one  to  an- 
other with  so  much  dexterity,  and  under  such  plausi- 
ble appearances,  that  the  public  opinion  is  left  in 
suspense  about  the  real  author.  The  circumstances 
which  may  have  led  to  any  national  miscarriage  or 
misfortune  are  sometimes  so  complicated  that, 
where  there  are  a  number  of  actors  who  may  have 
had  different  degrees  and  kinds  of  agency,  though 
we  may  clearly  see  upon  the  whole  that  there  has 
been  mismanagement,  yet  it  may  be  impracticable 
to  pronounce  to  whose  account  the  evil  which  may 
have  been  incurred  is  truly  chargeable. 

"  I  was  overruled  by  my  council.  The  council 
were  so  divided  in  their  opinions  that  it  was  impos- 
sible to  obtain  any  better  resolution  on  the  point." 
These  and  similar  pretexts  are  constantly  at  hand, 
whether  true  or  false.  And  who  is  there  that  will 
either  take  the  trouble  or  incur  the  odium,  of  a  strict 
scrutiny  into  the  secret  springs  of  the  transaction? 
Should  there  be  found  a  citizen  zealous  enough  to 
undertake  the  unpromising  task,  if  there  happen  to 
be  collusion  between  the  parties  concerned,  how 
easy  it  is  to  clothe  the  circumstances  with  so  much 


The  Federalist  201 

ambiguity,  as  to  render  it  uncertain  what  was  the 
precise  conduct  of  any  of  those  parties? 

In  the  single  instance  in  which  the  governor  of 
this  State  is  coupled  with  a  council — that  is,  in  the 
appointment  to  offices,  we  have  seen  the  mischiefs  of 
it  in  the  view  now  under  consideration.  Scandalous 
appointments  to  important  offices  have  been  made. 
Some  cases,  indeed,  have  been  so  flagrant  that  all 
PARTIES  have  agreed  in  the  impropriety  of  the  thing. 
When  inquiry  has  been  made,  the  blame  has  been 
laid  by  the  governor  on  the  members  of  the  council, 
who,  on  their  part,  have  charged  it  upon  his  nomina- 
tion ;  while  the  people  remain  altogether  at  a  loss  to 
determine,  by  whose  influence  their  interests  have 
been  committed  to  hands  so  unqualified  and  so  mani- 
festly improper.  In  tenderness  to  individuals,  I 
forbear  to  descend  to  particulars. 

It  is  evident  from  these  considerations,  that  the 
plurality  of  the  Executive  tends  to  deprive  the 
people  of  the  two  greatest  securities  they  can  have 
for  the  faithful  exercise  of  any  delegated  power, 
•first,  the  restrains  of  public  opinion,  which  lose  their 
efficacy,  as  well  on  account  of  the  division  of  the 
censure  attendant  on  bad  measures  among  a  num- 
ber, as  on  account  of  the  uncertainty  on  whom  it 
ought  to  fall;  and,  secondly,  the  opportunity  of  dis- 
covering with  facility  and  clearness  the  misconduct 
of  the  persons  they  trust,  in  order  either  to  their  re- 
moval from  office,  or  to  their  actual  punishment  in 
cases  which  admit  of  it. 

In  England,  the  king  is  a  perpetual  magistrate; 
and  it  is  a  maxim  which  has  obtained  for  the  sake 


202  Alexander  Hamilton 

of  the  public  peace,  that  he  is  unaccountable  for 
his  administration,  and  his  person  sacred.  Nothing, 
therefore,  can  be  wiser  in  that  kingdom,  than  to 
annex  to  the  king  a  constitutional  coimcil,  who  may 
be  responsible  to  the  nation  for  the  advice  they  give. 
Without  this,  there  would  be  no  responsibility  what- 
ever in  the  executive  department — an  idea  inadmis- 
sible in  a  free  government.  But  even  there  the  king 
is  not  bound  by  the  resolutions  of  his  council,  though 
they  are  answerable  for  the  advice  they  give.  He  is 
the  absolute  master  of  his  own  conduct  in  the  exer- 
cise of  his  office,  and  may  observe  or  disregard  the 
counsel  given  to  him  at  his  sole  discretion. 

But  in  a  republic,  where  every  magistrate  ought 
to  be  personally  responsible  for  his  behavior  in  office 
the  reason  which  in  the  British  Constitution  dictates 
the  propriety  of  a  council,  not  only  ceases  to  apply, 
but  turns  against  the  institution.  In  the  monarchy 
of  Great  Britain,  it  furnishes  a  substitute  for  the 
prohibited  responsibility  of  the  chief  magistrate, 
which  serves  in  some  degree  as  a  hostage  to  the  na- 
tional justice  for  his  good  behavior.  In  the  Amer- 
ican republic,  it  would  serve  to  destroy,  or  would 
greatly  diminish,  the  intended  and  necessary  re- 
sponsibility of  the  Chief  Magistrate  himself. 

The  idea  of  a  council  to  the  Executive,  which  has 
so  generally  obtained  in  the  State  constitutions,  has 
been  derived  from  that  maxim  of  republican  jealousy 
which  considers  power  as  safer  in  the  hands  of  a 
number  of  men  than  of  a  single  man.  If  the  maxim 
should  be  admitted  to  be  applicable  to  the  case,  I 
should  contend  that  the  advantage  on  that  side 


The  Federalist  203 

would  not  counterbalance  the  numerous  disadvan- 
tages on  the  opposite  side.  But  I  do  not  think  the 
rule  at  all  applicable  to  the  executive  power.  I 
clearly  concur  in  opinion,  in  this  particular,  with  a 
writer  whom  the  celebrated  Junius  pronounces  to  be 
''deep,  solid,  and  ingenious,"  that  "the  executive 
power  is  more  easily  confined  when  it  is  one"s 
that  it  is  far  more  safe  there  should  be  a  single 
object  for  the  jealousy  and  watchfulness  of  the 
people;  and,  in  a  word,  that  all  multiplication  of 
the  Executive  is  rather  dangerous  than  friendly 
to  liberty. 

A  little  consideration  will  satisfy  us,  that  the 
species  of  security  sought  for  in  the  multiplication 
of  the  Executive,  is  unattainable.  Numbers  must 
be  so  great  as  to  render  combination  difficult,  or 
they  are  rather  a  source  of  danger  than  of  security. 
The  united  credit  and  influence  of  several  individuals 
must  be  more  formidable  to  liberty,  than  the  credit 
and  influence  of  either  of  them  separately.  When 
power,  therefore,  is  placed  in  the  hands  of  so  small 
a  number  of  men,  as  to  admit  of  their  interests  and 
views  being  easily  combined  in  a  common  enterprise, 
by  an  artful  leader,  it  becomes  more  liable  to  abuse, 
and  more  dangerous  when  abused,  than  if  it  be 
lodged  in  the  hands  of  one  man ;  who,  from  the  very 
circumstance  of  his  being  alone,  will  be  more  nar- 
rowly watched  and  more  readily  suspected,  and  who 
cannot  unite  so  great  a  mass  of  influence  as  when  he 
is  associated  with  others.  The  Decemvirs  of  Rome, 
whose  name  denotes  their  number,''  were  more  to  be 

*  De  Lolme. — Publius.  ^  Ten. — Publius. 


204  Alexander  Hamilton 

dreaded  in  their  usurpation  than  any  one  of  them 
would  have  been.  No  person  would  think  of  pro- 
posing an  Executive  much  more  numerous  than  that 
body;  from  six  to  a  dozen  have  been  suggested  for 
the  ntmiber  of  the  council.  The  extreme  of  these 
numbers,  is  not  too  great  for  an  easy  combination; 
and  from  such  a  combination  America  would  have 
more  to  fear,  than  from  the  ambition  of  any  single 
individual.  A  council  to  a  magistrate,  who  is  him- 
self responsible  for  what  he  does,  are  generally  no- 
thing better  than  a  clog  upon  his  good  intentions,  are 
often  the  instruments  and  accomplices  of  his  bad, 
and  are  almost  always  a  cloak  to  his  faults. 

I  forbear  to  dwell  upon  the  subject  of  expense; 
though  it  be  evident  that  if  the  council  should  be 
numerous  enough  to  answer  the  principal  end  aimed 
at  by  the  institution,  the  salaries  of  the  members, 
who  must  be  drawn  from  their  homes  to  reside  at 
the  seat  of  government,  would  form  an  item  in  the 
catalogue  of  public  expenditures  too  serious  to  be 
incurred  for  an  object  of  equivocal  utility.  I  will 
only  add  that,  prior  to  the  appearance  of  the  Con- 
stitution, I  rarely  met  with  an  intelligent  man  from 
any  of  the  States,  who  did  not  admit,  as  the  result  of 
experience,  that  the  UNITY  of  the  executive  of  this 
State  was  one  of  the  best  of  the  distinguishing  fea- 
tures of  our  constitution. 

PUBLIUS. 


The  Federalist  205 

From  the  New  York  Packet,  Tuesday,  March  i8,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXXI 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

Duration  in  office  has  been  mentioned  as  the 
second  requisite  to  the  energy  of  the  Executive  au- 
thority. This  has  relation  to  two  objects:  to  the 
personal  firmness  of  the  executive  magistrate,  in  the 
employment  of  his  constitutional  powers;  and  to 
the  stability  of  the  system  of  administration  which 
may  have  been  adopted  under  his  auspices.  With  re- 
gard to  the  first,  it  must  be  evident,  that  the  longer 
the  duration  in  office,  the  greater  will  be  the  proba- 
bility of  obtaining  so  important  an  advantage.  It  is 
a  general  principle  of  human  nature,  that  a  man  will 
be  interested  in  whatever  he  possesses,  in  proportion 
to  the  firmness  or  precariousness  of  the  tenure  by 
which  he  holds  it ;  will  be  less  attached  to  what  he 
holds  by  a  momentary  or  uncertain  title,  than  to 
what  he  enjoys  by  a  durable  or  certain  title;  and,  of 
course,will  be  willing  to  risk  more  for  the  sake  of  the 
one,  than  for  the  sake  of  the  other.  This  remark  is  not 
less  applicable  to  a  political  privilege,  or  honor,  or 
trust,  than  to  any  article  of  ordinary  property.  The 
inference  from  it  is,  that  a  man  acting  in  the  capacity 
of  chief  magistrate,  under  a  consciousness  that  in  a 
very  short  time  he  must  lay  down  his  office,  will  be 
apt  to  feel  himself  too  little  interested  in  it  to  hazard 
any  material  censure  or  perplexity,  from  the  inde- 
pendent exertion  of  his  powers,  or  from  encounter- 
ing the  ill-humors,  however  transient,  which  may 


2o6  Alexander  Hamilton 

happen  to  prevail,  either  in  a  considerable  part  of 
the  society  itself,  or  even  in  a  predominant  faction 
in  the  legislative  body.  If  the  case  should  only 
be,  that  he  might  lay  it  down,  unless  continued  by 
a  new  choice,  and  if  he  should  be  desirous  of  being 
continued,  his  wishes,  conspiring  with  his  fears, 
would  tend  still  more  powerfully  to  corrupt  his  in- 
tegrity, or  debase  his  fortitude.  In  either  case, 
feebleness  and  irresolution  must  be  the  character- 
istics of  the  station. 

There  are  some  who  would  be  inclined  to  regard 
the  servile  pliancy  of  the  Executive  to  a  prevailing 
current,  either  in  the  community  or  in  the  legislature, 
as  its  best  recommendation.  But  such  men  enter- 
tain very  crude  notions,  as  well  of  the  purposes  for 
which  government  was  instituted,  as  of  the  true 
means  by  which  the  public  happiness  may  be  pro- 
moted. The  republican  principle  demands  that  the 
deliberate  sense  of  the  community  should  govern  the 
conduct  of  those  to  whom  they  intrust  the  manage- 
ment of  their  affairs ;  but  it  does  not  require  an  un- 
qualified complaisance  to  every  sudden  breeze  of 
passion,  or  to  every  transient  impulse  which  the  peo- 
ple may  receive  from  the  arts  of  men,  who  flatter 
their  prejudices  to  betray  their  interests.  It  is  a 
just  observation,  that  the  people  commonly  intend 
the  PUBLIC  GOOD.  This  often  applies  to  their  very 
errors.  But  their  good  sense  would  despise  the 
adulator  who  should  pretend  that  they  always  reason 
right  about  the  means  of  promoting  it.  They  know 
from  experience  that  they  sometimes  err,  and  the 
wonder  is  that  they  so  seldom  err  as  they  do,  beset, 


The  Federalist  207 

as  they  continually  are,  by  the  wiles  of  parasites  and 
sycophants,  by  the  snares  of  the  ambitious,  the 
avaricious,  the  desperate,  by  the  artifices  of  men 
who  possess  their  confidence  more  than  they  deserve 
it,  and  of  those  who  seek  to  possess  rather  than  to 
deserve  it.  When  occasions  present  themselves,  in 
which  the  interests  of  the  people  are  at  variance  with 
their  inclinations,  it  is  the  duty  of  the  persons  whom 
they  have  appointed  to  be  the  guardians  of  those 
interests,  to  withstand  the  temporary  delusion,  in 
order  to  give  them  time  and  opportunity  for  more 
cool  and  sedate  reflection.  Instances  might  be 
cited  in  which  a  conduct  of  this  kind  has  saved  the 
people  from  very  fatal  consequences  of  their  own 
mistakes,  and  has  procured  lasting  monuments  of 
their  gratitude  to  the  men  who  had  courage  and 
magnanimity  enough  to  serve  them  at  the  peril  of 
their  displeasure. 

But  however  inclined  we  might  be  to  insist  upon 
an  unbounded  complaisance  in  the  Executive  to  the 
inclinations  of  the  people,  we  can  with  no  propriety 
contend  for  a  like  complaisance  to  the  humors  of  the 
legislature.  The  latter  may  sometimes  stand  in 
opposition  to  the  former,  and  at  other  times  the 
people  may  be  entirely  neutral.  In  either  supposi- 
tion, it  is  certainly  desirable  that  the  Executive 
should  be  in  a  situation  to  dare  to  act  his  own  opinion 
with  vigor  and  decision. 

The  same  rule  which  teaches  the  propriety  of  a 
partition  between  the  various  branches  of  power, 
teaches  us  likewise  that  this  partition  ought  to  be 
so  contrived  as  to  render  the  one  independent  of  the 


2o8  Alexander  Hamilton 

other.  To  what  purpose  separate  the  executive  or 
the  judiciary  from  the  legislative,  if  both  the  execu- 
tive and  the  judiciary  are  so  constituted  as  to  be  at 
the  absolute  devotion  of  the  legislative?  Such  a 
separation  must  be  merely  nominal,  and  incapable 
of  producing  the  ends  for  which  it  was  established. 
It  is  one  thing  to  be  subordinate  to  the  laws,  and 
another  to  be  dependent  on  the  legislative  body. 
The  first  comports  with,  the  last  violates,  the  funda- 
mental principles  of  good  government;  and,  what- 
ever may  be  the  forms  of  the  Constitution,  unites  all 
power  in  the  same  hands.  The  tendency  of  the 
legislative  authority  to  absorb  every  other,  has  been 
fully  displayed  and  illustrated  by  examples  in  some 
preceding  numbers.  In  governments  purely  repub- 
lican, this  tendency  is  almost  irresistible.  The  re- 
presentatives of  the  people,  in  a  popular  assembly, 
seem  sometimes  to  fancy  that  they  are  the  people 
themselves,  and  betray  strong  symptoms  of  impa- 
tience and  disgust  at  the  least  sign  of  opposition 
from  any  other  quarter;  as  if  the  exercise  of  its 
rights,  by  either  the  executive  or  judiciary,  were  a 
breach  of  their  privilege  and  an  outrage  to  their  dig- 
nity. They  often  appear  disposed  to  exert  an  im- 
perious control  over  the  other  departments ;  and  as 
they  commonly  have  the  people  on  their  side,  they 
always  act  with  such  momentum  as  to  make  it  very 
difficult  for  the  other  members  of  the  government  to 
maintain  the  balance  of  the  Constitution. 

It  may  perhaps  be  asked,  how  the  shortness  of  the 
duration  in  office  can  affect  the  independence  of  the 
Executive  on  the  legislature,  unless  the  one  were 


The  Federalist  209 

possessed  of  the  power  of  appointing  or  displacing 
the  other.  One  answer  to  this  inquiry  may  be  drawn 
from  the  principle  already  remarked — that  is,  from 
the  slender  interest  a  man  is  apt  to  take  in  a  short- 
lived advantage,  and  the  little  inducement  it  affords 
him  to  expose  himself,  on  account  of  it,  to  any  con- 
siderable inconvenience  or  hazard.  Another  an- 
swer, perhaps  more  obvious,  though  not  more 
conclusive,  will  result  from  the  consideration  of 
the  influence  of  the  legislative  body  over  the  people ; 
which  might  be  employed  to  prevent  the  reelection 
of  a  man  who,  by  an  upright  resistance  to  any 
sinister  project  of  that  body,  should  have  made 
himself  obnoxious  to  its  resentment. 

It  may  be  asked  also,  whether  a  duration  of  four 
years  would  answer  the  end  proposed;  and  if  it 
would  not,  whether  a  less  period,  which  would  at 
least  be  recommended  by  greater  security  against 
ambitious  designs,  would  not,  for  that  reason,  be 
preferable  to  a  longer  period,  which  was,  at  the  same 
time,  too  short  for  the  purpose  of  inspiring  the  de- 
sired firmness  and  independence  of  the  magistrate. 

It  cannot  be  affirmed,  that  a  duration  of  four  years, 
or  any  other  limited  duration,  would  completely 
answer  the  end  proposed;  but  it  would  contribute 
towards  it  in  a  degree  which  would  have  a  material 
influence  upon  the  spirit  and  character  of  the  govern- 
ment. Between  the  commencement  and  termi- 
nation of  such  a  period,  there  would  always  be  a 
considerable  interval,  in  which  the  prospect  of  anni- 
hilation would  be  sufficiently  remote,  not  to  have  an 
improper  effect  upon  the  conduct  of  a  man  indued 

VOL.  XII. — 14. 


2IO  Alexander  Hamilton 

with  a  tolerable  portion  of  fortitude;  and  in  which 
he  might  reasonably  promise  himself,  that  there 
would  be  time  enough  before  it  arrived,  to  make  the 
community  sensible  of  the  propriety  of  the  measures 
he  might  incline  to  pursue.  Though  it  be  probable 
that,  as  he  approached  the  moment  when  the  public 
were,  by  a  new  election,  to  signify  their  sense  of  his 
conduct,  his  confidence,  and  with  it  his  firmness, 
would  decline ;  yet  both  the  one  and  the  other  would 
derive  support  from  the  opportunities  which  his 
previous  continuance  in  the  station  had  afforded 
him,  of  establishing  himself  in  the  esteem  and  good- 
will of  his  constituents.  He  might,  then,  hazard 
with  safety,  in  proportion  to  the  proofs  he  had  given 
of  his  wisdom  and  integrity,  and  to  the  title  he  had 
acquired  to  the  respect  and  attachment  of  his  fellow- 
citizens.  As,  on  the  one  hand,  a  duration  of  four 
years  will  contribute  to  the  firmness  of  the  Execu- 
tive in  a  sufficient  degree  to  render  it  a  very  valuable 
ingredient  in  the  composition ;  so,  on  the  other,  it  is 
not  enough  to  justify  any  alarm  for  the  public  liberty. 
If  a  British  House  of  Commons,  from  the  most  feeble 
beginnings,  from  the  mere  power  of  assenting  or  dis- 
agreeing to  the  imposition  of  a  new  tax,  have,  by  rapid 
strides,  reduced  the  prerogatives  of  the  crown  and 
the  privileges  of  the  nobility  within  the  limits  they 
conceived  to  be  compatible  with  the  principles  of  a 
free  government,  while  they  raised  themselves  to  the 
rank  and  consequence  of  a  coequal  branch  of  the 
legislature ;  if  they  have  been  able,  in  one  instance,  to 
abolish  both  the  royalty  and  the  aristocracy,  and  to 
overturn  all  the  ancient  establishments,  as  well  in 


The  Federalist  211 

the  Church  as  State;  if  they  have  been  able,  on  a 
recent  occasion,  to  make  the  monarch  tremble  at 
the  prospect  of  an  innovation  '  attempted  by  them, 
what  would  be  to  be  feared  from  an  elective  magis- 
trate of  four  years'  duration,  with  the  confined  au- 
thorities of  a  President  of  the  United  States  ?  What, 
but  that  he  might  be  unequal  to  the  task  which  the 
Constitution  assigns  him?  I  shall  only  add,  that  if 
his  duration  be  such  as  to  leave  a  doubt  of  his  firm- 
ness, that  doubt  is  inconsistent  with  a  jealousy  of 
his  encroachments. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Friday^  March  21,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST?.     No.  LXXII 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

The  administration  of  government,  in  its  largest 
sense,  comprehends  all  the  operations  of  the  body 
politic,  whether  legislative,  executive,  or  judiciary; 
but  in  its  most  usual  and  perhaps  in  its  most  precise 
signification,  it  is  limited  to  executive  details,  and 
falls  peculiarly  within  the  province  of  the  executive 
department.  The  actual  conduct  of  foreign  nego- 
tiations, the  preparatory  plans  of  finance,  the  appli- 
cation and  disbursement  of  the  public  moneys  in 
conformity  to  the  general  appropriations  of  the  legis- 
lature, the  arrangement  of  the  army  and  navy,  the 

'  This  was  the  case  with  respect  to  Mr.  Fox's  India  bill,  which  was 
carried  in  the  House  of  Commons,  and  rejected  in  the  House  of  Lords, 
to  the  entire  satisfaction,  as  it  is  said,  of  the  people. — Publius. 


212  Alexander  Hamilton 

direction  of  the  operations  of  war, — these,  and  other 
matters  of  a  like  nature,  constitute  what  seems  to 
be  most  properly  understood  by  the  administration 
of  government.  The  persons,  therefore,  to  whose 
immediate  management  these  different  matters  are 
committed,  ought  to  be  considered  as  the  assistants 
or  deputies  of  the  chief  magistrate,  and  on  this  ac- 
count, they  ought  to  derive  their  offices  from  his  ap- 
pointment, at  least  from  his  nomination,  and  ought 
to  be  subject  to  his  superintendence.  This  view  of 
the  subject  will  at  once  suggest  to  us  the  intimate 
connection  between  the  duration  of  the  executive 
magistrate  in  office  and  the  stability  of  the  system 
of  administration.  To  reverse  and  undo  what  has 
been  done  by  a  predecessor,  is  very  often  considered 
by  a  successor  as  the  best  proof  he  can  give  of  his 
own  capacity  and  desert;  and  in  addition  to  this 
propensity,  where  the  alteration  has  been  the  result 
of  public  choice,  the  person  substituted  is  warranted 
in  supposing  that  the  dismission  of  his  predecessor 
has  proceeded  from  a  dislike  to  his  measures;  and 
that  the  less  he  resembles  him,  the  more  he  will  re- 
commend himself  to  the  favor  of  his  constituents. 
These  considerations,  and  the  influence  of  personal 
confidences  and  attachments,  would  be  likely  to 
induce  every  new  President  to  promote  a  change  of 
men  to  fill  the  subordinate  stations;  and  these 
causes  together  could  not  fail  to  occasion  a  dis- 
graceful and  ruinous  mutability  in  the  administra- 
tion of  the  government. 

With  a  positive  duration  of  considerable  extent,  I 
connect  the  circumstance  of  reeligibility.     The  first 


The  Federalist  213 

is  necessary  to  give  to  the  officer  himself  the  inclina- 
tion and  the  resolution  to  act  his  part  well,  and  to  the 
community  time  and  leisure  to  observe  the  tendency 
of  his  measures,  and  thence  to  form  an  experimental 
estimate  of  their  merits.  The  last  is  necessary  to 
enable  the  people,  when  they  see  reason  to  approve 
of  his  conduct,  to  continue  him  in  his  station,  in 
order  to  prolong  the  utility  of  his  talents  and  virtues, 
and  to  secure  to  the  government  the  advantage  of 
permanency  in  a  wise  system  of  administration. 

Nothing  appears  more  plausible  at  first  sight,  nor 
more  ill-founded  upon  close  inspection,  than  a 
scheme  which  in  relation  to  the  present  point  has 
had  some  respectable  advocates, — I  mean  that  of 
continuing  the  chief  magistrate  in  office  for  a  certain 
time,  and  then  excluding  him  from  it  either  for  a 
limited  period  or  forever  after.  This  exclusion, 
whether  temporary  or  perpetual,  would  have  nearly 
the  same  effects,  and  these  effects  would  be  for  the 
most  part  rather  pernicious  than  salutary. 

One  ill  effect  of  the  exclusion  would  be  a  diminu- 
tion of  the  inducements  to  good  behavior.  There 
are  few  men  who  would  not  feel  much  less  zeal  in  the 
discharge  of  a  duty,  when  they  were  conscious  that 
the  advantages  of  the  station  with  which  it  was  con- 
nected must  be  relinquished  at  a  determinate  period, 
than  when  they  were  permitted  to  entertain  a  hope 
of  obtaining,  by  meriting,  a  continuance  of  them. 
This  position  will  not  be  disputed  so  long  as  it  is  ad- 
mitted that  the  desire  of  reward  is  one  of  the  strong- 
est incentives  of  human  conduct ;  or  that  the  best  se- 
curity for  the  fidelity  of  mankind  is  to  make  their 


214  Alexander  Hamilton 

interest  coincide  with  their  duty.  Even  the  love  of 
fame,  the  ruling  passion  of  the  noblest  minds,  which 
would  prompt  a  man  to  plan  and  undertake  exten- 
sive and  arduous  enterprises  for  the  public  benefit, 
requiring  considerable  time  to  mature  and  perfect 
them,  if  he  could  flatter  himself  with  the  prospect  of 
being  allowed  to  finish  what  he  had  begun,  would,  on 
the  contrary,  deter  him  from  the  undertaking,  when 
he  foresaw  that  he  must  quit  the  scene  before  he 
could  accomplish  the  work,  and  must  commit  that, 
together  with  his  own  reputation,  to  hands  which 
might  be  unequal  or  unfriendly  to  the  task.  The 
most  to  be  expected  from  the  generality  of  men,  in 
such  a  situation,  is  the  negative  merit  of  not  doing 
harm,  instead  of  the  positive  merit  of  doing  good. 

Another  ill  effect  of  the  exclusion  would  be  the 
temptation  to  sordid  views,  to  peculation,  and,  in 
some  instances,  to  usurpation.  An  avaricious  man, 
who  might  happen  to  fill  the  office,  looking  forward 
to  a  time  when  he  must  at  all  events  yield  up  the 
emoluments  he  enjoyed,  would  feel  a  propensity, 
not  easy  to  be  resisted  by  such  a  man,  to  make  the 
best  use  of  the  opportunity  he  enjoyed  while  it  lasted, 
and  might  not  scruple  to  have  recourse  to  the  most 
corrupt  expedients  to  make  the  harvest  as  abundant 
as  it  was  transitory ;  though  the  same  man,  probably, 
with  a  different  prospect  before  him,  might  content 
himself  with  the  regular  perquisites  of  his  situation, 
and  might  even  be  unwilling  to  risk  the  consequences 
of  an  abuse  of  his  opportunities.  His  avarice  might 
be  a  guard  upon  his  avarice.  Add  to  this  that  the 
same  man  might  be  vain  or  ambitious,  as  well  as 


The  Federalist  215 

avaricious.  And  if  he  could  expect  to  prolong  his 
honors  by  his  good  conduct,  he  might  hesitate  to 
sacrifice  his  appetite  for  them  to  his  appetite  for 
gain.  But  with  the  prospect  before  him  of  approach- 
ing an  inevitable  annihilation,  his  avarice  would  be 
likely  to  get  the  victory  over  his  caution,  his  vanity, 
or  his  ambition. 

An  ambitious  man,  too,  when  he  found  himself 
seated  on  the  summit  of  his  country's  honors,  when 
he  looked  forward  to  the  time  at  which  he  must 
descend  from  the  exalted  eminence  for  ever,  and  re- 
flected that  no  exertion  of  merit  on  his  part  could 
save  him  from  the  unwelcome  reverse;  such  a  man, 
in  such  a  situation,  would  be  much  more  violently 
tempted  to  embrace  a  favorable  conjuncture  for 
attempting  the  prolongation  of  his  power,  at  every 
personal  hazard,  than  if  he  had  the  probability  of 
answering  the  same  end  by  doing  his  duty. 

Would  it  promote  the  peace  of  the  community,  or 
the  stability  of  the  government  to  have  half  a  dozen 
men  who  had  had  credit  enough  to  be  raised  to  the 
seat  of  the  supreme  magistracy,  wandering  among 
the  people  like  discontented  ghosts,  and  sighing  for 
a  place  which  they  were  destined  never  more  to 
possess  ? 

A  third  ill  effect  of  the  exclusion  would  be,  the  de- 
priving the  community  of  the  advantage  of  the 
experience  gained  by  the  chief  magistrate  in  the 
exercise  of  his  office.  That  experience  is  the  parent 
of  wisdom,  is  an  adage  the  truth  of  which  is  recog- 
nized by  the  wisest  as  well  as  the  simplest  of  man- 
kind.    What  more  desirable  or  more  essential  than 


2i6  Alexander  Hamilton 

this  quality  in  the  governors  of  nations?  Where 
more  desirable  or  more  essential  than  in  the  first 
magistrate  of  a  nation?  Can  it  be  wise  to  put  this 
desirable  and  essential  quality  under  the  ban  of  the 
Constitution,  and  to  declare  that  the  moment  it  is 
acquired,  its  possessor  shall  be  compelled  to  abandon 
the  station  in  which  it  was  acquired,  and  to  which  it 
is  adapted?  This,  nevertheless,  is  the  precise  im- 
port of  all  those  regulations  which  exclude  men  from 
serving  their  country,  by  the  choice  of  their  fellow- 
citizens,  after  they  have  by  a  course  of  service  fitted 
themselves  for  doing  it  with  a  greater  degree  of 
utility. 

A  fourth  ill  effect  of  the  exclusion  would  be  the 
banishing  men  from  stations  in  which,  in  certain 
emergencies  of  the  state,  their  presence  might  be  of 
the  greatest  moment  to  the  public  interest  or  safety. 
There  is  no  nation  which  has  not,  at  one  period  or 
another,  experienced  an  absolute  necessity  of  the 
services  of  particular  men  in  particular  situations; 
perhaps  it  would  not  be  too  strong  to  say,  to  the 
preservation  of  its  political  existence.  How  unwise, 
therefore,  must  be  every  such  self-denying  ordinance 
as  serves  to  prohibit  a  nation  from  making  use  of  its 
own  citizens  in  the  manner  best  suited  to  its  exigen- 
cies and  circumstances !  Without  supposing  the  per- 
sonal essentiality  of  the  man,  it  is  evident  that  a 
change  of  the  chief  magistrate,  at  the  breaking  out 
of  a  war,  or  at  any  similar  crisis,  for  another,  even  of 
equal  merit,  would  at  all  times  be  detrimental  to 
the  community,  inasmuch  as  it  would  substitute  in- 
experience to  experience,  and  would  tend  to  im- 


The  Federalist  217 

hinge  and  set  afloat  the  already  settled  train  of  the 
administration. 

A  fifth  ill  effect  of  the  exclusion  would  be,  that  it 
would  operate  as  a  constitutional  interdiction  of 
stability  in  the  administration.  By  necessitating  a 
change  of  men,  in  the  first  office  of  the  nation,  it 
would  necessitate  a  mutability  of  measures.  It  is 
not  generally  to  be  expected,  that  men  will  vary 
and  measures  remain  uniform.  The  contrary  is  the 
usual  course  of  things.  And  we  need  not  be  appre- 
hensive that  there  will  be  too  much  stability,  while 
there  is  even  the  option  of  changing;  nor  need  we 
desire  to  prohibit  the  people  from  continuing  their 
confidence  where  they  think  it  may  be  safely  placed, 
and  where,  by  constancy  on  their  part,  they  may 
obviate  the  fatal  inconveniences  of  fluctuating  coun- 
cils and  a  variable  policy. 

These  are  some  of  the  disadvantages  which  would 
flow  from  the  principle  of  exclusion.  They  apply 
most  forcibly  to  the  scheme  of  a  perpetual  exclusion ; 
but  when  we  consider  that  even  a  partial  exclusion 
would  always  render  the  readmission  of  the  person  a 
remote  and  precarious  object,  the  observations  which 
have  been  made  will  apply  nearly  as  fully  to  one 
case  as  to  the  other. 

What  are  the  advantages  promised  to  counter- 
balance these  disadvantages  ?  They  are  represented 
to  be:  ist,  greater  independence  in  the  magistrate ; 
2d,  greater  security  to  the  people.  Unless  the  ex- 
clusion be  perpetual,  there  will  be  no  pretence  to 
infer  the  first  advantage.  But  even  in  that  case, 
may  he  have  no  object  beyond  his  present  station. 


2i8  Alexander  Hamilton 

to  which  he  may  sacrifice  his  independence?  May 
he  have  no  connections,  no  friends,  for  whom  he  may 
sacrifice  it?  May  he  not  be  less  willing,  by  a  firm 
conduct,  to  make  personal  enemies,  when  he  acts 
under  the  impression  that  a  time  is  fast  approaching, 
on  the  arrival  of  which  he  not  only  may,  but  must,  be 
exposed  to  their  resentments,  upon  an  equal,  per- 
haps upon  an  inferior,  footing?  It  is  not  an  easy 
point  to  determine  whether  his  independence  would 
be  most  promoted  or  impaired  by  such  an  arrange- 
ment. 

As  to  the  second  supposed  advantage,  there  is  still 
greater  reason  to  entertain  doubts  concerning  it.  If 
the  exclusion  were  to  be  perpetual,  a  man  of  irregu- 
lar ambition,  of  whom  alone  there  could  be  reason 
in  any  case  to  entertain  apprehension,  would,  with 
infinite  reluctance,  yield  to  the  necessity  of  taking 
his  leave  forever  of  a  post  in  which  his  passion  for 
power  and  preeminence  had  acquired  the  force  of 
habit.  And  if  he  had  been  fortunate  or  adroit  enough 
to  conciliate  the  good- will  of  the  people,  he  might  in- 
duce them  to  consider  as  a  very  odious  and  unjusti- 
fiable restraint  upon  themselves,  a  provision  which 
was  calculated  to  debar  them  of  the  right  of  giving 
a  fresh  proof  of  their  attachment  to  a  favorite. 
There  may  be  conceived  circumstances  in  which  this 
disgust  of  the  people,  seconding  the  thwarted  ambi- 
tion of  such  a  favorite,  might  occasion  greater  danger 
to  liberty,  than  could  ever  reasonably  be  dreaded 
from  the  possibility  of  a  perpetuation  in  office,  by 
the  voluntary  suffrages  of  the  community,  exercising 
a  constitutional  privilege. 


The  Federalist  219 

There  is  an  excess  of  refinement  in  the  idea  of 
disabhng  the  people  to  continue  in  office  men  who 
had  entitled  themselves,  in  their  opinion,  to  appro- 
bation and  confidence ;  the  advantages  of  which  are 
at  best  speculative  and  equivocal,  and  are  over- 
balanced by  disadvantages  far  more  certain  and 
decisive. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Friday,  March  21,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXXIII 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

The  third  ingredient  towards  constituting  the 
vigor  of  the  executive  authority,  is  an  adequate  pro- 
vision for  its  support.  It  is  evident  that,  without 
proper  attention  to  this  article,  the  separation  of  the 
executive  from  the  legislative  department  would  be 
merely  nominal  and  nugatory.  The  legislature, 
with  a  discretionary  power  over  the  salary  and 
emoluments  of  the  Chief  Magistrate,  could  render 
him  as  obsequious  to  their  will  as  they  might  think 
proper  to  make  him.  They  might,  in  most  cases, 
either  reduce  him  by  famine,  or  tempt  him  by  lar- 
gesses, to  surrender  at  discretion  his  judgment  to 
their  inclinations.  These  expressions,  taken  in  all 
the  latitude  of  the  terms,  would  no  doubt  convey 
more  than  is  intended.  There  are  men  who  could 
neither  be  distressed  nor  won  into  a  sacrifice  of  their 
duty ;  but  this  stern  virtue  is  the  growth  of  few  soils ; 
and  in  the  main  it  will  be  found  that  a  power  over  a 


220  Alexander  Hamilton 

man's  support  is  a  power  over  his  will.  If  it  were 
necessary  to  confirm  so  plain  a  truth  by  facts,  ex- 
amples would  not  be  wanting,  even  in  this  country, 
of  the  intimidation  or  seduction  of  the  Executive  by 
the  terrors  or  allurements  of  the  pecuniary  arrange- 
ments of  the  legislative  body. 

It  is  not  easy,  therefore,  to  commend  too  highly  the 
judicious  attention  which  has  been  paid  to  this  sub- 
ject in  the  proposed  Constitution.  It  is  there  pro- 
vided that  "The  President  of  the  United  States 
shall,  at  stated  times,  receive  for  his  service  a  com- 
pensation which  shall  neither  be  increased  nor  dimin- 
ished during  the  period  for  which  he  shall  have  been 
elected;  and  he  shall  not  receive  within  that  period  any 
other  emolum-ent  from  the  United  States,  or  any  of 
them."  It  is  impossible  to  imagine  any  provision 
which  would  have  been  more  eligible  than  this.  The 
legislature,  on  the  appointment  of  a  President,  is 
once  for  all  to  declare  what  shall  be  the  compensa- 
tion for  his  services  during  the  time  for  which  he 
shall  have  been  elected.  This  done,  they  will  have 
no  power  to  alter  it,  either  by  increase  or  diminu- 
tion, till  a  new  period  of  service  by  a  new  election 
commences.  They  can  neither  weaken  his  fortitude 
by  operating  on  his  necessities,  nor  corrupt  his  in- 
tegrity by  appealing  to  his  avarice.  Neither  the 
Union,  nor  any  of  its  members,  will  be  at  liberty  to 
give,  nor  will  he  be  at  liberty  to  receive,  any  other 
emolument  than  that  which  may  have  been  deter- 
mined by  the  first  act.  He  can,  of  course,  have  no 
pecuniary  inducement  to  renounce  or  desert  the  in- 
dependence intended  for  him  by  the  Constitution. 


The  Federalist  221 

The  last  of  the  requisites  to  energy,  which  have 
been  enumerated,  are  competent  powers.  Let  us 
proceed  to  consider  those  which  are  proposed  to  be 
vested  in  the  President  of  the  United  States. 

The  first  thing  that  offers  itself  to  our  observation, 
is  the  qualified  negative  of  the  President  upon  the 
acts  or  resolutions  of  the  two  houses  of  the  legisla- 
ture; or,  in  other  words,  his  power  of  returning  all 
bills  with  objections,  to  have  the  effect  of  preventing 
their  becoming  laws,  unless  they  should  afterwards 
be  ratified  by  two  thirds  of  each  of  the  component 
members  of  the  legislative  body. 

The  propensity  of  the  legislative  department  to 
intrude  upon  the  rights,  and  to  absorb  the  powers, 
of  the  other  departments,  has  been  already  suggested 
and  repeated ;  the  insufficiency  of  a  mere  parchment 
delineation  of  the  boundaries  of  each,  has  also  been 
remarked  upon ;  and  the  necessity  of  furnishing  each 
with  constitutional  arms  for  its  own  defence,  has 
been  inferred  and  proved.  From  these  clear  and  in- 
dubitable principles  results  the  propriety  of  a  nega- 
tive, either  absolute  or  qualified,  in  the  Executive, 
upon  the  acts  of  the  legislative  branches.  Without 
the  one  or  the  other,  the  former  would  be  absolutely 
unable  to  defend  himself  against  the  depredations 
of  the  latter.  He  might  gradually  be  stripped  of  his 
authorities  by  successive  resolutions,  or  annihilated 
by  a  single  vote.  And  in  the  one  mode  or  the 
other,  the  legislative  and  executive  powers  might 
speedily  come  to  be  blended  in  the  same  hands.  If 
even  no  propensity  had  ever  discovered  itself  in  the 
legislative  body  to  invade  the  rights  of  the  Execu- 


222  Alexander  Hamilton 

tive,  the  rules  of  just  reasoning  and  theoretic  pro- 
priety would  of  themselves  teach  us,  that  the  one 
ought  not  to  be  left  to  the  mercy  of  the  other,  but 
ought  to  possess  a  constitutional  and  effectual  power 
of  self-defence. 

But  the  power  in  question  has  a  further  use.  It 
not  only  serves  as  a  shield  to  the  Executive,  but  it 
furnishes  an  additional  security  against  the  enaction 
of  improper  laws.  It  establishes  a  salutary  check 
upon  the  legislative  body,  calculated  to  guard  the 
community  against  the  effects  of  faction,  precipi- 
tancy, or  of  any  impulse  unfriendly  to  the  public 
good,  which  may  happen  to  influence  a  majority  of 
that  body. 

The  propriety  of  a  negative  has,  upon  some  occa- 
sions, been  combated  by  an  observation,  that  it  was 
not  to  be  presumed  a  single  man  would  possess  more 
virtue  and  wisdom  than  a  number  of  men ;  and  that 
unless  this  presumption  should  be  entertained,  it 
would  be  improper  to  give  the  executive  magistrate 
any  species  of  control  over  the  legislative  body. 

But  this  observation,  when  examined,  will  appear 
rather  specious  than  solid.  The  propriety  of  the 
thing  does  not  turn  upon  the  supposition  of  superior 
wisdom  or  virtue  in  the  Executive,  but  upon  the 
supposition  that  the  legislature  will  not  be  infallible ; 
that  the  love  of  power  may  sometimes  betray  it  into 
a  disposition  to  encroach  upon  the  rights  of  other 
members  of  the  government ;  that  a  spirit  of  faction 
may  sometimes  pervert  its  deliberations;  that  im- 
pressions of  the  moment  may  sometimes  hurry  it  into 
measures  which  itself,  on  maturer  reflection,would 


The  Federalist  223 

condemn.  The  primary  inducement  to  conferring 
the  power  in  question  upon  the  Executive  is,  to 
enable  him  to  defend  himself ;  the  secondary  one  is 
to  increase  the  chances  in  favor  of  the  community 
against  the  passing  of  bad  laws,  through  haste,  in- 
advertence, or  design.  The  oftener  the  measure  is 
brought  under  examination,  the  greater  the  divers- 
ity in  the  situations  of  those  who  are  to  examine  it, 
the  less  must  be  the  danger  of  those  errors  which 
flow  from  want  of  due  deliberation,  or  of  those  mis- 
steps which  proceed  from  the  contagion  of  some  com- 
mon passion  or  interest.  It  is  far  less  probable,  that 
culpable  views  of  any  kind  should  infect  all  the  parts 
of  the  government  at  the  same  moment  and  in  rela- 
tion to  the  same  object,  than  that  they  should  by 
turns  govern  and  mislead  every  one  of  them. 

It  may  perhaps  be  said  that  the  power  of  prevent- 
ing bad  laws  includes  that  of  preventing  good  ones ; 
and  may  be  used  to  the  one  purpose  as  well  as  to  the 
other.  But  this  objection  will  have  little  weight 
with  those  who  can  properly  estimate  the  mischiefs 
of  that  inconstancy  and  mutability  in  the  laws, 
which  form  the  greatest  blemish  in  the  character  and 
genius  of  our  governments.  They  will  consider 
every  institution  calculated  to  restrain  the  excess  of 
law-making,  and  to  keep  things  in  the  same  state  in 
which  they  happen  to  be  at  any  given  period,  as 
much  more  likely  to  do  good  than  harm ;  because  it 
is  favorable  to  greater  stability  in  the  system  of 
legislation.  The  injury  which  may  possibly  be  done  by 
defeating  a  few  good  laws,  will  be  amply  compensated 
by  the  advantage  of  preventing  a  number  of  bad  ones. 


224  Alexander  Hamilton 

Nor  is  this  all.  The  superior  weight  and  influence 
of  the  legislative  body  in  a  free  government,  and  the 
hazard  to  the  Executive  in  a  trial  of  strength  with 
that  body,  afford  a  satisfactory  security  that  the 
negative  would  generally  be  employed  with  great 
caution;  and  there  would  oftener  be  room  for  a 
charge  of  timidity  than  of  rashness  in  the  exercise 
of  it.  A  king  of  Great  Britain,  with  all  his  train 
of  sovereign  attributes,  and  with  all  the  influence  he 
draws  from  a  thousand  sources,  would,  at  this  day, 
hesitate  to  put  a  negative  upon  the  joint  resolutions 
of  the  two  houses  of  Parliament.  He  would  not  fail 
to  exert  the  utmost  resources  of  that  influence  to 
strangle  a  measure  disagreeable  to  him,  in  its  pro- 
gress to  the  throne,  to  avoid  being  reduced  to  the 
dilemma  of  permitting  it  to  take  effect,  or  of  risking 
the  displeasure  of  the  nation  by  an  opposition  to  the 
sense  of  the  legislative  body.  Nor  is  it  probable, 
that  he  would  ultimately  venture  to  exert  his  pre- 
rogatives, but  in  a  case  of  manifest  propriety,  or  ex- 
treme necessity.  All  well-informed  men  in  that 
kingdom  will  accede  to  the  justness  of  this  remark. 
A  very  considerable  period  has  elapsed  since  the 
negative  of  the  crown  has  been  exercised. 

If  a  magistrate  so  powerful  and  so  well  fortified 
as  a  British  monarch,  would  have  scruples  about  the 
exercise  of  the  power  under  consideration,  how  much 
greater  caution  may  be  reasonably  expected  in  a 
President  of  the  United  States,  clothed  for  the  short 
period  of  four  years  with  the  executive  authority  of 
a  government  wholly  and  purely  republican? 

It  is  evident  that  there  would  be  greater  danger 


The  Federalist  225 

of  his  not  using  his  power  when  necessary,  than  of 
his  using  it  too  often,  or  too  much.  An  argument, 
indeed,  against  its  expediency,  has  been  drawn  from 
this  very  source.  It  has  been  represented,  on  this 
account,  as  a  power  odious  in  appearance,  useless  in 
practice.  But  it  will  not  follow,  that  because  it 
might  be  rarely  exercised,  it  would  never  be  exer- 
cised. In  the  case  for  which  it  is  chiefly  designed, 
that  of  an  immediate  attack  upon  the  constitutional 
rights  of  the  Executive,  or  in  a  case  in  which  the 
public  good  was  evidently  and  palpably  sacrificed, 
a  man  of  tolerable  firmness  would  avail  himself  of 
his  constitutional  means  of  defence,  and  would 
listen  to  the  admonitions  of  duty  and  responsibility. 
In  the  former  supposition,  his  fortitude  would  be 
stimulated  by  his  immediate  interest  in  the  power 
of  his  office ;  in  the  latter,  by  the  probability  of  the 
sanction  of  his  constituents,  who,  though  they 
would  naturally  incline  to  the  legislative  body  in  a 
doubtful  case,  would  hardly  suffer  their  partiality  to 
delude  them  in  a  very  plain  case.  I  speak  now  with 
an  eye  to  a  magistrate  possessing  only  a  common 
share  of  firmness.  There  are  men  who,  under  any 
circumstances,  will  have  the  courage  to  do  their  duty 
at  every  hazard. 

But  the  convention  have  pursued  a  mean  in  this 
business,  which  will  both  facilitate  the  exercise  of 
the  power  vested  in  this  respect  in  the  executive 
magistrate,  and  make  its  efficacy  to  depend  on  the 
sense  of  a  considerable  part  of  the  legislative  body. 
Instead  of  an  absolute  negative,  it  is  proposed  to 
give  the  Executive  the  qualified  negative  already 

VOL.  Xll,— 15. 


226  Alexander  Hamilton 

described.  This  is  a  power  which  would  be  much 
more  readily  exercised  than  the  other.  A  man  who 
might  be  afraid  to  defeat  a  law  by  his  single  veto, 
might  not  scruple  to  return  it  for  reconsideration; 
subject  to  being  finally  rejected  only  in  the  event  of 
more  than  one  third  of  each  house  concurring  in  the 
sufficiency  of  his  objections.  He  would  be  encour- 
aged by  the  reflection,  that  if  his  opposition  should 
prevail,  it  would  embark  in  it  a  very  respectable 
proportion  of  the  legislative  body,  whose  influence 
would  be  united  with  his  in  supporting  the  pro- 
priety of  his  conduct  in  the  public  opinion.  A  direct 
and  categorical  negative  has  something  in  the  ap- 
pearance of  it  more  harsh,  and  more  apt  to  irritate, 
than  the  mere  suggestion  of  argumentative  objec- 
tions to  be  approved  or  disapproved  by  those  to 
whom  they  are  addressed.  In  proportion  as  it  would 
be  less  apt  to  offend,  it  would  be  more  apt  to  be  exer- 
cised ;  and  for  this  very  reason,  it  may  in  practice  be 
found  more  effectual.  It  is  to  be  hoped  that  it  will 
not  often  happen  that  improper  views  will  govern 
so  large  a  proportion  as  two  thirds  of  both  branches 
of  the  legislature  at  the  same  time;  and  this,  too,  in 
spite  of  the  counterpoising  weight  of  the  Executive. 
It  is  at  any  rate  far  less  probable  that  this  should  be 
the  case,  than  that  such  views  should  taint  the  reso- 
lutions and  conduct  of  a  bare  majority.  A  power 
of  this  nature  in  the  Executive  will  often  have  a 
silent  and  unperceived,  though  forcible,  operation. 
When  men,  engaged  in  unjustifiable  pursuits,  are 
aware  that  obstructions  may  come  from  a  quarter 
which  they  cannot  control,  they  will  often  be  re- 


The  Federalist  227 

strained  by  the  bare  apprehension  of  opposition,  from 
doing  what  they  would  with  eagerness  rush  into,  if 
no  such  external  impediments  were  to  be  feared. 

This  qualified  negative,  as  has  been  elsewhere  re- 
marked, is  in  this  State  vested  in  a  council,  consisting 
of  the  governor,  with  the  chancellor  and  judges  of 
the  Supreme  Court,  or  any  two  of  them.  It  has  been 
freely  employed  upon  a  variety  of  occasions,  and 
frequently  with  success.  And  its  utility  has  become 
so  apparent,  that  persons  who,  in  compiling  the  Con- 
stitution, were  violent  opposers  of  it,  have  from  ex- 
perience become  its  declared  admirers.' 

I  have  in  another  place  remarked,  that  the  con- 
vention, in  the  formation  of  this  part  of  their  plan, 
had  departed  from  the  model  of  the  constitution  of 
this  State,  in  favor  of  that  of  Massachusetts.  Two 
strong  reasons  may  be  imagined  for  this  preference. 
One  is  that  the  judges,  who  are  to  be  the  interpreters 
of  the  law,  might  receive  an  improper  bias,  from 
having  given  a  previous  opinion  in  their  revisionary 
capacities ;  the  other  is  that  by  being  often  associated 
with  the  Executive,  they  might  be  induced  to  em- 
bark too  far  in  the  political  views  of  that  magistrate, 
and  thus  a  dangerous  combination  might  by  degrees 
be  cemented  between  the  executive  and  judiciary 
departments.  It  is  impossible  to  keep  the  judges 
too  distinct  from  every  other  avocation  than  that 
of  expounding  the  laws.  It  is  peculiarly  dangerous 
to  place  them  in  a  situation  to  be  either  corrupted  or 
influenced  by  the  Executive.  Publius. 

^  Mr.  Abraham  Yates,  a  warm  opponent  of  the  plan  of  the  conven- 
tion, is  of  this  number. — Publius. 


228  Alexander  Hamilton 

From  the  New  York  Packet,  Tuesday,  March  25,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXXIV 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

The  President  of  the  United  States  is  to  be  "  com- 
mander-in-chief of  the  army  and  navy  of  the  United 
States,  and  of  the  mihtia  of  the  several  States  when 
called  into  the  actual  service  of  the  United  States." 
The  propriety  of  this  provision  is  so  evident  in  itself, 
and  it  is,  at  the  same  time,  so  consonant  to  the  prece- 
dents of  the  State  constitutions  in  general,  that  little 
need  be  said  to  explain  or  enforce  it.  Even  those  of 
them  which  have,  in  other  respects,  coupled  the 
chief  magistrate  with  a  council,  have  for  the  most 
part  concentrated  the  military  authority  in  him 
alone.  Of  all  the  cares  or  concerns  of  government, 
the  direction  of  war  most  peculiarly  demands  those 
qualities  which  distinguish  the  exercise  of  power  by 
a  single  hand.  The  direction  of  war  implies  the 
direction  of  the  common  strength ;  and  the  power  of 
directing  and  employing  the  common  strength,  forms 
a  usual  and  essential  part  in  the  definition  of  the 
executive  authority. 

"The  President  may  require  the  opinion,  in 
writing,  of  the  principal  officer  in  each  of  the  execu- 
tive departments,  upon  any  subject  relating  to  the 
duties  of  their  respective  offices."  This  I  consider 
as  a  mere  redundancy  in  the  plan,  as  the  right  for 
which  it  provides  would  result  of  itself  from  the 
office. 


The  Federalist  229 

He  is  also  to  be  authorized  to  grant  "  reprieves  and 
pardons  for  offences  against  the  United  States,  ex- 
cept in  cases  of  impeachment.''  Humanity  and  good 
policy  conspire  to  dictate,  that  the  benign  preroga- 
tive of  pardoning  should  be  as  little  as  possible  fet- 
tered or  embarrassed.  The  criminal  code  of  every 
country  partakes  so  much  of  necessary  severity, 
that  without  an  easy  access  to  exceptions  in  favor 
of  unfortunate  guilt,  justice  would  wear  a  counte- 
nance too  sanguinary  and  cruel.  As  the  sense  of  re- 
sponsibility is  always  strongest,  in  proportion  as  it 
is  undivided,  it  may  be  inferred  that  a  single  man 
would  be  most  ready  to  attend  to  the  force  of  those 
motives  which  might  plead  for  a  mitigation  of  the 
rigor  of  the  law,  and  least  apt  to  yield  to  considera- 
tions which  were  calculated  to  shelter  a  fit  object  of 
its  vengeance.  The  reflection  that  the  fate  of  a 
fellow-creature  depended  on  his  sole  fiat,  would 
naturally  inspire  scrupulousness  and  caution;  the 
dread  of  being  accused  of  weakness  or  connivance, 
would  beget  equal  circumspection,  though  of  a  differ- 
ent kind.  On  the  other  hand,  as  men  generally  de- 
rive confidence  from  their  numbers,  they  might  often 
encourage  each  other  in  an  act  of  obduracy,  and 
might  be  less  sensible  to  the  apprehension  of  sus- 
picion or  censure  for  an  injudicious  or  affected  clem- 
ency. On  these  accounts,  one  man  appears  to  be  a 
more  eligible  dispenser  of  the  mercy  of  government, 
than  a  body  of  men. 

The  expediency  of  vesting  the  power  of  pardoning 
in  the  President  has,  if  I  mistake  not,  been  only  con- 
tested in  relation  to  the  crime  of  treason.    This,  it 


230  Alexander  Hamilton 

has  been  urged,  ought  to  have  depended  upon  the 
assent  of  one,  or  both,  of  the  branches  of  the  legisla- 
tive body.  I  shall  not  deny  that  there  are  strong 
reasons  to  be  assigned  for  requiring  in  this  particular 
the  concurrence  of  that  body,  or  of  a  part  of  it.  As 
treason  is  a  crime  levelled  at  the  immediate  being  of 
the  society,  when  the  laws  have  once  ascertained  the 
guilt  of  the  offender,  there  seems  a  fitness  in  referring 
the  expediency  of  an  act  of  mercy  towards  him  to 
the  judgment  of  the  legislature.  And  this  ought  the 
rather  to  be  the  case,  as  the  supposition  of  the  con- 
nivance of  the  Chief  Magistrate  ought  not  to  be  en- 
tirely excluded.  But  there  are  also  strong  objections 
to  such  a  plan.  It  is  not  to  be  doubted,  that  a  single 
man  of  prudence  and  good  sense  is  better  fitted,  in 
delicate  conjunctures,  to  balance  the  motives  which 
may  plead  for  and  against  the  remission  of  the  pun- 
ishment, than  any  numerous  body  whatever.  It  de- 
serves particular  attention,  that  treason  will  often  be 
connected  with  seditions  which  embrace  a  large  pro- 
portion of  the  community;  as  lately  happened  in 
Massachusetts.  In  every  such  case,  we  might  ex- 
pect to  see  the  representation  of  the  people  tainted 
with  the  same  spirit  which  had  given  birth  to  the 
offence.  And  when  parties  were  pretty  equally 
matched,  the  secret  sympathy  of  the  friends  and 
favorers  of  the  condemned  person,  availing  itself  of 
the  good-nature  and  weakness  of  others,  might  fre- 
quently bestow  impunity  where  the  terror  of  an  ex- 
ample was  necessary.  On  the  other  hand,  when  the 
sedition  had  proceeded  from  causes  which  had  in- 
flamed the  resentments  of  the  major  party,  they 


The  Federalist  231 

might  often  be  found  obstinate  and  inexorable,  when 
policy  demanded  a  conduct  of  forbearance  and  clem- 
ency. But  the  principal  argument  for  reposing  the 
power  of  pardoning  in  this  case  in  the  Chief  Magis- 
trate is  this:  in  seasons  of  insurrection  or  rebellion, 
there  are  often  critical  moments,  when  a  well-timed 
offer  of  pardon  to  the  insurgents  or  rebels  may  re- 
store the  tranquillity  of  the  commonwealth;  and 
which,  if  suffered  to  pass  unimproved,  it  may  never 
be  possible  afterwards  to  recall.  The  dilatory 
process  of  convening  the  legislature,  or  one  of  its 
branches,  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  its  sanction  to 
the  measure,  would  frequently  be  the  occasion  of  let- 
ting slip  the  golden  opportunity  The  loss  of  a  week, 
a  day,  an  hour,  may  sometimes  be  fatal.  If  it  should 
be  observed,  that  a  discretionary  power,  with  a  view 
to  such  contingencies,  might  be  occasionally  con- 
ferred upon  the  President,  it  may  be  answered  in  the 
first  place,  that  it  is  questionable,  whether,  in  a 
limited  Constitution,  that  power  could  be  delegated 
by  law ;  and  in  the  second  place,  that  it  would  gen- 
erally be  impolitic  beforehand  to  take  any  step  which 
might  hold  out  the  prospect  of  impunity.  A  pro- 
ceeding of  this  kind,  out  of  the  usual  course,  would 
be  likely  to  be  construed  into  an  argument  of  timid- 
ity or  of  weakness,  and  would  have  a  tendency  to 
embolden  guilt. 

PUBLIUS. 


232  Alexander  Hamilton 

For  the  Independent  Journal 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXXV 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

The  President  is  to  have  power,  ''by  and  with  the 
advice  and  consent  of  the  Senate,  to  make  treaties, 
provided  two  thirds  of  the  senators  present  concur." 

Though  this  provision  has  been  assailed,  on  differ- 
ent grounds,  with  no  small  degree  of  vehemence,  I 
scruple  not  to  declare  my  firm  persuasion,  that  it  is 
one  of  the  best  digested  and  most  unexceptionable 
parts  of  the  plan.  One  ground  of  objection  is  the 
trite  topic  of  the  intermixture  of  powers ;  some  con- 
tending that  the  President  ought  alone  to  possess  the 
power  of  making  treaties;  others,  that  it  ought  to 
have  been  exclusively  deposited  in  the  Senate.  An- 
other source  of  objection  is  derived  from  the  small 
number  of  persons  by  whom  a  treaty  may  be  made. 
Of  those  who  espouse  this  objection,  a  part  are  of 
opinion  that  the  House  of  Representatives  ought  to 
have  been  associated  in  the  business,  while  another 
part  seem  to  think  that  nothing  more  was  necessary 
than  to  have  substituted  two  thirds  of  all  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Senate,  to  two  thirds  of  the  members 
present.  As  I  flatter  myself  the  observations  made 
in  a  preceding  number  upon  this  part  of  the  plan 
must  have  sufficed  to  place  it,  to  a  discerning  eye, 
in  a  very  favorable  light,  I  shall  here  content  myself 
with  offering  only  some  supplementary  remarks, 
principally  with  a  view  to  the  objections  which  have 
been  just  stated. 


The  Federalist  233 

With  regard  to  the  intermixture  of  powers,  I  shall 
rely  upon  the  explanations  already  given  in  other 
places,  of  the  true  sense  of  the  rule  upon  which  that 
objection  is  founded;  and  shall  take  it  for  granted, 
as  an  inference  from  them,  that  the  union  of  the 
Executive  with  the  Senate,  in  the  article  of  treaties, 
is  no  infringement  of  that  rule.  I  venture  to  add, 
that  the  particular  nature  of  the  power  of  making 
treaties  indicates  a  peculiar  propriety  in  that  union. 
Though  several  writers  on  the  subject  of  govern- 
ment place  that  power  in  the  class  of  executive 
authorities,  yet  this  is  evidently  an  arbitrary  dis- 
position; for  if  we  attend  carefully  to  its  operation, 
it  will  be  found  to  partake  more  of  the  legislative 
than  of  the  executive  character,  though  it  does  not 
seem  strictly  to  fall  within  the  definition  of  either 
of  them.  The  essence  of  the  legislative  authority  is 
to  enact  laws,  or,  in  other  words,  to  prescribe  rules 
for  the  regulation  of  the  society ;  while  the  execution 
of  the  laws,  and  the  employment  of  the  common 
strength,  either  for  this  purpose  or  for  the  common 
defence,  seem  to  comprise  all  the  functions  of  the 
executive  magistrate.  The  power  of  making  treat- 
ies is,  plainly,  neither  the  one  nor  the  other.  It  re- 
lates neither  to  the  execution  of  the  subsisting  laws, 
nor  to  the  enaction  of  new  ones;  and  still  less  to  an 
exertion  of  the  common  strength.  Its  objects  are 
CONTRACTS  with  foreign  nations,  which  have  the  force 
of  law,  but  derive  it  from  the  obligations  of  good 
faith.  They  are  not  rules  prescribed  by  the  sover- 
eign to  the  subject,  but  agreements  between  sover- 
eign and  sovereign.     The  power  in  question  seems 


234  Alexander  Hamilton 

therefore  to  form  a  distinct  department,  and  to  be- 
long, properly,  neither  to  the  legislative  nor  to  the 
executive.  The  qualities  elsewhere  detailed  as  in- 
dispensable in  the  management  of  foreign  negotia- 
tions, point  out  the  Executive  as  the  most  fit  agent 
in  those  transactions;  while  the  vast  importance  of 
the  trust,  and  the  operation  of  treaties  as  laws,  plead 
strongly  for  the  participation  of  the  whole  or  a  por- 
tion of  the  legislative  body  in  the  office  of  making 
them. 

However  proper  or  safe  it  may  be  in  governments 
where  the  executive  magistrate  is  an  hereditary 
monarch,  to  commit  to  him  the  entire  power  of 
making  treaties,  it  would  be  utterly  unsafe  and  im- 
proper to  intrust  that  power  to  an  elective  magis- 
trate of  four  years'  duration.  It  has  been  remarked, 
upon  another  occasion,  and  the  remark  is  unques- 
tionably just,  that  an  hereditary  monarch,  though 
often  the  oppressor  of  his  people,  has  personally  too 
much  stake  in  the  government  to  be  in  any  material 
danger  of  being  corrupted  by  foreign  powers.  But 
a  man  raised  from  the  station  of  a  private  citizen  to 
the  rank  of  chief  magistrate,  possessed  of  a  moderate 
or  slender  fortune,  and  looking  forward  to  a  period 
not  very  remote  when  he  may  probably  be  obliged 
to  return  to  the  station  from  which  he  was  taken, 
might  sometimes  be  under  temptations  to  sacrifice 
his  duty  to  his  interest,  which  it  would  require  super- 
lative virtue  to  withstand.  An  avaricious  man 
might  be  tempted  to  betray  the  interests  of  the 
state  to  the  acquisition  of  wealth.  An  ambitious 
man  might  make  his  own  aggrandizement,  by  the 


The  Federalist  235 

aid  of  a  foreign  power,  the  price  of  his  treachery  to 
his  constituents.  The  history  of  human  conduct 
does  not  warrant  that  exalted  opinion  of  human 
virtue  which  would  make  it  wise  in  a  nation  to  com- 
mit interests  of  so  delicate  and  momentous  a  kind, 
as  those  which  concern  its  intercourse  with  the  rest 
of  the  world,  to  the  sole  disposal  of  a  magistrate 
created  and  circumstanced  as  would  be  a  President 
of  the  United  States. 

To  have  intrusted  the  power  of  making  treaties  to 
the  Senate  alone,  would  have  been  to  relinquish  the 
benefits  of  the  constitutional  agency  of  the  President 
in  the  conduct  of  foreign  negotiations.  It  is  true 
that  the  Senate  would,  in  that  case,  have  the  option 
of  employing  him  in  this  capacity,  but  they  would 
also  have  the  option  of  letting  it  alone,  and  pique  or 
cabal  might  induce  the  latter  rather  than  the  former. 
Besides  this,  the  ministerial  servant  of  the  Senate 
could  not  be  expected  to  enjoy  the  confidence  and 
respect  of  foreign  powers  in  the  same  degree  with 
the  constitutional  representatives  of  the  nation,  and, 
of  course,  would  not  be  able  to  act  with  an  equal 
degree  of  weight  of  efficacy.  While  the  Union 
would,  from  this  cause,  lose  a  considerable  advan- 
tage in  the  management  of  its  external  concerns,  the 
people  would  lose  the  additional  security  which 
would  result  from  the  cooperation  of  the  Executive. 
Though  it  would  be  imprudent  to  confide  in  him 
solely  so  important  a  trust,  yet  it  cannot  be  doubted 
that  his  participation  would  materially  add  to  the 
safety  of  the  society.  It  must  indeed  be  clear  to 
a  demonstration  that  the  joint  possession  of  the 


236  Alexander  Hamilton 

power  in  question,  by  the  President  and  Senate, 
would  afford  a  greater  prospect  of  security,  than  the 
separate  possession  of  it  by  either  of  them.  And 
whoever  has  maturely  weighed  the  circumstances 
which  must  concur  in  the  appointment  of  a  Presi- 
dent, will  be  satisfied  that  the  office  will  always  bid 
fair  to  be  filled  by  men  of  such  characters  as  to  ren- 
der their  concurrence  in  the  formation  of  treaties 
peculiarly  desirable,  as  well  on  the  score  of  wisdom, 
as  on  that  of  integrity. 

The  remarks  made  in  a  former  number,  which  have 
been  alluded  to  in  another  part  of  this  paper,  will 
apply  with  conclusive  force  against  the  admission  of 
the  House  of  Representatives  to  a  share  in  the 
formation  of  treaties.  The  fluctuating  and,  taking 
its  future  increase  into  the  account,  the  multitu- 
dinous composition  of  that  body,  forbid  us  to  expect 
in  it  those  qualities  which  are  essential  to  the  proper 
execution  of  such  a  trust.  Accurate  and  compre- 
hensive knowledge  of  foreign  politics;  a  steady  and 
systematic  adherence  to  the  same  views ;  a  nice  and 
uniform  sensibility  to  national  character;  decision, 
secrecy,  and  despatch,  are  incompatible  with  the 
genius  of  a  body  so  variable  and  so  numerous.  The 
very  complication  of  the  business,  by  introducing  a 
necessity  of  the  concurrence  of  so  many  different 
bodies,  would  of  itself  afford  a  solid  objection.  The 
greater  frequency  of  the  calls  upon  the  House  of 
Representatives,  and  the  greater  length  of  time 
which  it  would  often  be  necessary  to  keep  them  to- 
gether when  convened,  to  obtain  their  sanction  in 
the  progressive  stages  of  a  treaty,  would  be  a  source 


The  Federalist  237 

of  so  great  inconvenience  and  expense  as  alone  ought 
to  condemn  the  project. 

The  only  objection  which  remains  to  be  canvassed, 
is  that  which  would  substitute  the  proportion  of  two 
thirds  of  all  the  members  composing  the  senatorial 
body,  to  that  of  two  thirds  of  the  members  present. 
It  has  been  shown,  under  the  second  head  of  our 
inquiries,  that  all  provisions  which  require  more 
than  the  majority  of  any  body  to  its  resolutions, 
have  a  direct  tendency  to  embarrass  the  operations 
of  the  government,  and  an  indirect  one  to  subject 
the  sense  of  the  majority  to  that  of  the  minority. 
This  consideration  seems  sufficient  to  determine  our 
opinion,  that  the  convention  have  gone  as  far  in  the 
endeavor  to  secure  the  advantage  of  numbers  in  the 
formation  of  treaties  as  could  have  been  reconciled 
either  with  the  activity  of  the  public  councils  or 
with  a  reasonable  regard  to  the  major  sense  of  the 
community.  If  two  thirds  of  the  whole  number  of 
members  had  been  required,  it  would,  in  many  cases, 
from  the  non-attendance  of  a  part,  amount  in  prac- 
tice to  a  necessity  of  unanimity.  And  the  history 
of  every  political  establishment  in  which  this  prin- 
ciple has  prevailed,  is  a  history  of  impotence,  per- 
plexity, and  disorder.  Proofs  of  this  position  might 
be  adduced  from  the  examples  of  the  Roman  Trib- 
uneship,  the  Polish  Diet,  and  the  States- General  of 
the  Netherlands,  did  not  an  example  at  home  render 
foreign  precedents  unnecessary. 

To  require  a  fixed  proportion  of  the  whole  body 
would  not,  in  all  probability,  contribute  to  the  ad- 
vantages of  a  numerous  agency,  better  than  merely 


238  Alexander  Hamilton 

to  require  a  proportion  of  the  attending  members. 
The  former,  by  making  a  determinate  number  at 
all  times  requisite  to  a  resolution,'  diminishes  the 
motives  to  punctual  attendance.  The  latter,  by 
making  the  capacity  of  the  body  to  depend  on  a  pro- 
portion which  may  be  varied  by  the  absence  or  pres- 
ence of  a  single  member,  has  the  contrary  effect. 
And  as,  by  promoting  punctuality,  it  tends  to  keep 
the  body  complete,  there  is  great  likelihood  that  its 
resolutions  would  generally  be  dictated  by  as  great 
a  number  in  this  case  as  in  the  other;  while  there 
would  be  much  fewer  occasions  of  delay.  It  ought 
not  to  be  forgotten  that,  under  the  existing  Confeder- 
ation, two  members  may,  and  usually  do,  represent 
a  State;  whence  it  happens  that  Congress,  who  now 
are  solely  invested  with  all  the  powers  of  the  Union, 
rarely  consist  of  a  greater  number  of  persons  than 
would  compose  the  intended  Senate.  If  we  add  to 
this,  that  as  the  members  vote  by  States,  and  that 
where  there  is  only  a  single  member  present  from  a 
State,  his  vote  is  lost,  it  will  justify  a  supposition 
that  the  active  voices  in  the  Senate,  where  the  mem- 
bers are  to  vote  individually,  would  rarely  fall  short 
in  number  of  the  active  voices  in  the  existing  Con- 
gress. When,  in  addition  to  these  considerations, 
we  take  into  view  the  cooperation  of  the  President, 
we  shall  not  hesitate  to  infer  that  the  people  of 
America  would  have  greater  security  against  an  im- 
proper use  of  the  power  of  making  treaties,  under 
the  new  Constitution,  than  they  now  enjoy  under  the 

'  In  the  revised  text:  "The  former   by  increasing  the  difficulty  of 
resolutions  disagreeable  to  the  minority." 


The  Federalist  239 

Confederation.  And  when  we  proceed  still  one  step 
further,  and  look  forward  to  the  probable  aug- 
mentation of  the  Senate,  by  the  erection  of  new 
States,  we  shall  not  only  perceive  ample  ground  of 
confidence  in  the  sufficiency  of  the  members  to  whose 
agency  that  power  will  be  intrusted,  but  we  shall 
probably  be  led  to  conclude  that  a  body  more  nu- 
merous than  the  Senate  would  be  likely  to  become, 
would  be  very  little  fit  for  the  proper  discharge  of 
the  trust. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Tuesday,  April  i,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXXVI 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

The  President  is  ''to  nominate ^  and,  by  and  with 
the  advice  and  consent  of  the  Senate,  to  appoint 
ambassadors,  other  public  ministers  and  consuls, 
judges  of  the  Supreme  Court,  and  all  other  officers 
of  the  United  States  whose  appointments  are  not 
otherwise  provided  for  in  the  Constitution.  But 
the  Congress  may  by  law  vest  the  appointment  of 
such  inferior  officers  as  they  think  proper,  in  the 
President  alone,  or  in  the  courts  of  law,  or  in  the 
heads  of  departments.  The  President  shall  have 
power  to  fill  up  all  vacancies  which  may  happen 
during  the  recess  of  the  Senate,  by  granting  commis- 
sions which  shall  expire  at  the  end  of  their  next 
session.'* 


240  Alexander  Hamilton 

It  has  been  observed  in  a  former  paper,  that  "  the 
true  test  of  a  good  government  is  its  aptitude  and 
tendency  to  produce  a  good  administration."  If 
the  justness  of  this  observation  be  admitted,  the 
mode  of  appointing  the  officers  of  the  United  States 
contained  in  the  foregoing  clauses,  must,  when  ex- 
amined, be  allowed  to  be  entitled  to  particular  com- 
mendation. It  is  not  easy  to  conceive  a  plan  better 
calculated  than  this  to  promote  a  judicious  choice  of 
men  for  filling  the  offices  of  the  Union;  and  it  will 
not  need  proof,  that  on  this  point  must  essentially 
depend  the  character  of  its  administration. 

It  will  be  agreed  on  all  hands,  that  the  power  of 
appointment,  in  ordinary  cases,  ought  to  be  modi- 
fied in  one  of  three  ways.  It  ought  either  to  be 
vested  in  a  single  man,  or  in  a  select  assembly  of  a 
moderate  number;  or  in  a  single  man,  with  the  con- 
currence of  such  an  assembly.  The  exercise  of  it 
by  the  people  at  large  will  be  readily  admitted  to  be 
impracticable ;  as  waiving  every  other  consideration, 
it  would  leave  them  little  time  to  do  any  thing  else. 
When,  therefore,  mention  is  made  in  the  subsequent 
reasonings,  of  an  assembly  or  body  of  men,  what  is 
said  must  be  understood  to  relate  to  a  select  body  or 
assembly,  of  the  description  already  given.  The 
people  collectively,  from  their  number  and  from  their 
dispersed  situation,  cannot  be  regulated  in  their 
movements  by  that  systematic  spirit  of  cabal  and 
intrigue,  which  will  be  urged  as  the  chief  objections 
to  reposing  the  power  in  question  in  a  body  of  men. 

Those  who  have  themselves  reflected  upon  the 
subject,  or  who  have  attended  to  the  observations 


The  Federalist  241 

made  in  other  parts  of  these  papers,  in  relation  to  the 
appointment  of  the  President,  will,  I  presume,  agree 
to  the  position,  that  there  would  always  be  great 
probability  of  having  the  place  supplied  by  a  man 
of  abilities,  at  least  respectable.  Premising  this,  I 
proceed  to  lay  it  down  as  a  rule,  that  one  man  of 
discernment  is  better  fitted  to  analyze  and  estimate 
the  peculiar  qualities  adapted  to  particular  offices, 
than  a  body  of  men  of  equal  or  perhaps  even  of 
superior  discernment 

The  so.e  and  undivided  responsibility  of  one  man 
will  naturally  beget  a  livelier  sense  of  duty  and  a 
more  exact  regard  to  reputation.  He  will,  on  this 
account,  feel  himself  under  stronger  obligations,  and 
more  interested  to  investigate  with  care  the  qualities 
requisite  to  the  stations  to  be  filled,  and  to  prefer 
with  impartiality  the  persons  who  may  have  the 
fairest  pretensions  to  them.  He  will  have  fewer 
personal  attachments  to  gratify,  than  a  body  of  men 
who  may  each  be  supposed  to  have  an  equal  num- 
ber; and  will  be  so  much  the  less  liable  to  be  misled 
by  the  sentiments  of  friendship  and  of  affection. 
A  single  well-directed  man,  by  a  single  understand- 
ing, cannot  be  distracted  and  warped  by  that  divers- 
ity of  views,  feelings,  and  interests,  which  frequently 
distract  and  warp  the  resolutions  of  a  collective 
body.  There  is  nothing  so  apt  to  agitate  the  pas- 
sions of  mankind  as  personal  considerations,  whether 
they  relate  to  ourselves  or  to  others,  who  are  to  be 
the  objects  of  our  choice  or  preference.  Hence,  in 
every  exercise  of  the  power  of  appointing  to  offices 
by  an  assembly  of  men,  we  must  expect  to  see  a  full 

VOL.  XII.— 16. 


242  Alexander  Hamilton 

display  of  all  the  private  and  party  likings  and  dis- 
likes, partialities  and  antipathies,  attachments  and 
animosities,  which  are  felt  by  those  who  compose 
the  assembly.  The  choice  which  may  at  any  time 
happen  to  be  made  under  such  circumstances,  will 
of  course  be  the  result  either  of  a  victory  gained  by 
one  party  over  the  other,  or  of  a  compromise  between 
the  parties.  In  either  case,  the  intrinsic  merit  of 
the  candidate  will  be  too  often  out  of  sight.  In  the 
first,  the  qualifications  best  adapted  to  uniting  the 
suffrages  of  the  party,  will  be  more  considered  than 
those  which  fit  the  person  for  the  station.  In  the 
last,  the  coalition  will  commonly  turn  upon  some 
interested  equivalent:  ''Give  us  the  man  we  wish 
for  this  office,  and  you  shall  have  the  one  you  wish 
for  that."  This  will  be  the  usual  condition  of 
the  bargain.  And  it  will  rarely  happen  that  the 
advancement  of  the  public  service  will  be  the 
primary  object  either  of  party  victories  or  of  party 
negotiations. 

The  truth  of  the  principles  here  advanced  seems  to 
have  been  felt  by  the  most  intelligent  of  those  who 
have  found  fault  with  the  provision  made,  in  this  re- 
spect, by  the  convention.  They  contend  that  the 
President  ought  solely  to  have  been  authorized  to 
make  the  appointments  under  the  federal  govern- 
ment. But  it  is  easy  to  show,  that  every  advantage 
to  be  expected  from  such  an  arrangement  would,  in 
substance,  be  derived  from  the  power  of  nomination, 
which  is  proposed  to  be  conferred  upon  him;  while 
several  disadvantages  which  might  attend  the  ab- 
solute power  of  appointment  in  the  hands  of  that 


The  Federalist  243 

officer  would  be  avoided.  In  the  act  of  nomination, 
his  judgment  alone  would  be  exercised;  and  as  it 
would  be  his  sole  duty  to  point  out  the  man  who, 
with  the  approbation  of  the  Senate,  should  fill  an 
office,  his  responsibility  would  be  as  complete  as  if 
he  were  to  make  the  final  appointment.  There  can, 
in  this  view,  be  no  difference  between  nominating 
and  appointing.  The  same  motives  which  would  influ- 
ence a  proper  discharge  of  his  duty  in  one  case,  would 
exist  in  the  other.  And  as  no  man  could  be  appointed 
but  on  his  previous  nomination,  every  man  who 
might  be  appointed  would  be,  in  fact,  his  choice. 

But  might  not  his  nomination  be  overruled?  I 
grant  it  might,  yet  this  could  only  be  to  make  place 
for  another  nomination  by  himself.  The  person 
ultimately  appointed  must  be  the  object  of  his  pre- 
ference, though  perhaps  not  in  the  first  degree.  It 
is  also  not  very  probable  that  his  nomination  would 
often  be  overruled.  The  Senate  could  not  be 
tempted,  by  the  preference  they  might  feel  to  an- 
other, to  reject  the  one  proposed;  because  they  could 
not  assure  themselves,  that  the  person  they  might 
wish  would  be  brought  forward  by  a  second  or  by 
any  subsequent  nomination.  They  could  not  even 
be  certain,  that  a  future  nomination  would  present 
a  candidate  in  any  degree  more  acceptable  to  them ; 
and  as  their  dissent  might  ca:st  a  kind  of  stigma  upon 
the  individual  rejected,  and  might  have  the  appear- 
ance of  a  reflection  upon  the  judgment  of  the  chief 
magistrate,  it  is  not  likely  that  their  sanction  would 
often  be  refused,  where  there  were  not  special  and 
strong  reasons  for  the  refusal. 


244  Alexander  Hamilton 

To  what  purpose  then  require  the  cooperation  of 
the  Senate?  I  answer,  that  the  necessity  of  their 
concurrence  would  have  a  powerful,  though,  in  gen- 
eral, a  silent  operation.  It  would  be  an  excellent 
check  upon  a  spirit  of  favoritism  in  the  President, 
and  would  tend  greatly  to  prevent  the  appoint- 
ment of  unfit  characters  from  State  prejudice,  from 
family  connection,  from  personal  attachment,  or 
from  a  view  to  popularity.  In  addition  to  this,  it 
would  be  an  efficacious  source  of  stability  in  the 
administration. 

It  will  readily  be  comprehended,  that  a  man  who 
had  himself  the  sole  disposition  of  offices,  would  be 
governed  much  more  by  his  private  inclinations  and 
interests,  than  when  he  was  bound  to  submit  the 
propriety  of  his  choice  to  the  discussion  and  deter- 
mination of  a  different  and  independent  body,  and 
that  body  an  entire  branch  of  the  legislature.  The 
possibility  of  rejection  would  be  a  strong  motive  to 
care  in  proposing.  The  danger  to  his  own  reputation 
and,  in  the  case  of  an  elective  magistrate,  to  his 
political  existence,  from  betraying  a  spirit  of  favor- 
itism, or  an  unbecoming  pursuit  of  popularity,  to  the 
observation  of  a  body  whose  opinion  would  have 
great  weight  in  forming  that  of  the  public,  could  not 
fail  to  operate  as  a  barrier  to  the  one  and  to  the  other. 
He  would  be  both  ashamed  and  afraid  to  bring  for- 
ward, for  the  most  distinguished  or  lucrative  sta- 
tions, candidates  who  had  no  other  merit  than  that 
of  coming  from  the  same  State  to  which  he  par- 
ticularly belonged,  or  of  being  in  some  way  or  other 
personally  allied  to  him,  or  of  possessing  the  neces- 


The  Federalist  245 

sary  insignificance  and  pliancy  to  render  them  the 
obsequious  instruments  of  his  pleasure. 

To  this  reasoning  it  has  been  objected  that  the 
President,  by  the  influence  of  the  power  of  nomina- 
tion, may  secure  the  complaisance  of  the  Senate  to 
his  views.  This  supposition  of  universal  venality  in 
human  nature  is  little  less  an  error  in  political  reason- 
ing, than  the  supposition  of  universal  rectitude.  The 
institution  of  delegated  power  implies,  that  there  is 
a  portion  of  virtue  and  honor  among  mankind,  which 
may  be  a  reasonable  foundation  of  confidence;  and 
experience  justifies  the  theory.  It  has  been  found 
to  exist  in  the  most  corrupt  periods  of  the  most 
corrupt  governments.  The  venality  of  the  British 
House  of  Commons  has  been  long  a  topic  of  accusa- 
tion against  that  body,  in  the  country  to  which  they 
belong,  as  well  as  in  this;  and  it  cannot  be  doubted 
that  the  chaige  is,  to  a  considerable  extent,  well 
founded.  But  it  is  as  little  to  be  doubted,  that 
there  is  always  a  large  proportion  of  the  body,  which 
consists  of  independent  and  public-spirited  men,  who 
have  an  influential  weight  in  the  councils  of  the  na- 
tion. Hence  it  is  (the  present  reign  not  excepted) 
that  the  sense  of  that  body  is  often  seen  to  control 
the  inclinations  of  the  monarch,  both  with  regard  to 
men  and  to  measures.  Though  it  might  therefore 
be  allowable  to  suppose  thiat  the  Executive  might 
occasionally  influence  some  individuals  in  the  Sen- 
ate, yet  the  supposition,  that  he  could  in  general 
purchase  the  integrity  of  the  whole  body,  would  be 
forced  and  improbable.  A  man  disposed  to  view 
human  nature  as  it  is,  without  either  flattering  its 


246  Alexander  Hamilton 

virtues  or  exaggerating  its  vices,  will  see  sufficient 
ground  of  confidence  in  the  probity  of  the  Senate,  to 
rest  satisfied,  not  only  that  it  will  be  impracticable 
to  the  Executive  to  corrupt  or  seduce  a  majority  of 
its  members,  but  that  the  necessity  of  its  coopera- 
tion, in  the  business  of  appointments,  will  be  a  con- 
siderable and  salutary  restraint  upon  the  conduct  of 
that  magistrate.  Nor  is  the  integrity  of  the  Senate 
the  only  reliance.  The  Constitution  has  provided 
some  important  guards  against  the  danger  of  execu- 
tive influence  upon  the  legislative  body:  it  declares 
that  "  No  senator  or  representative  shall,  during  the 
time  for  which  he  was  elected,  be  appointed  to  any 
civil  office  under  the  United  States,  which  shall  have 
been  created,  or  the  emoluments  whereof  shall  have 
been  increased,  during  such  time;  and  no  person, 
holding  any  office  under  the  United  States,  shall  be 
a  member  of  either  house  during  his  continuance  in 
office." 

PUBLIUS. 


From  the  New  York  Packet,  Friday,  April  4,  1788 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXXVII 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

It  has  been  mentioned  as  one  of  the  advantages 
to  be  expected  from  the  cooperation  of  the  Senate, 
in  the  business  of  appointments,  that  it  would  con- 
tribute to  the  stability  of  the  administration.  The 
consent  of  that  body  would  be  necessary  to  displace 
as  well  as  to  appoint.     A  change  of  the  Chief  Magis- 


The  Federalist  247 

trate,  therefore,  would  not  occasion  so  violent  or  so 
general  a  revolution  in  the  officers  of  the  government 
as  might  be  expected,  if  he  were  the  sole  disposer  of 
offices.  Where  a  man  in  any  station  had  given 
satisfactory  evidence  of  his  fitness  for  it,  a  new 
President  would  be  restrained  from  attempting  a 
change  in  favor  of  a  person  more  agreeable  to  him, 
by  the  apprehension  that  a  discountenance  of  the 
Senate  might  frustrate  the  attempt,  and  bring  some 
degree  of  discredit  upon  himself.  Those  who  can 
best  estimate  the  value  of  a  steady  administration, 
will  be  most  disposed  to  prize  a  provision  which  con- 
nects the  official  existence  of  public  men  with  the 
approbation  or  disapprobation  of  that  body  which, 
from  the  greater  permanency  of  its  own  composition, 
will  in  all  probability  be  less  subject  to  inconstancy 
than  any  other  member  of  the  government. 

To  this  union  of  the  Senate  with  the  President,  in 
the  article  of  appointments,  it  has  in  some  cases  been 
suggested  that  it  would  serve  to  give  the  President 
an  undue  influence  over  the  Senate,  and  in  others 
that  it  would  have  an  opposite  tendency, — a  strong 
proof  that  neither  suggestion  is  true. 

To  state  the  first  in  its  proper  form,  is  to  refute  it. 
It  amounts  to  this:  the  President  would  have  an 
improper  influence  over  the  Senate,  because  the  Sen- 
ate would  have  the  power  of  restraining  him.  This 
is  an  absurdity  in  terms.  It  cannot  admit  of  a 
doubt  that  the  entire  power  of  appointment  would 
enable  him  much  more  effectually  to  establish  a 
dangerous  empire  over  that  body,  than  a  mere 
power  of  nomination  subject  to  their  control. 


248  Alexander  Hamilton 

Let  us  take  a  view  of  the  converse  of  the  proposi- 
tion: ''the  Senate  would  influence  the  Executive.'* 
As  I  have  had  occasion  to  remark  in  several  other 
instances,  the  indistinctness  of  the  objection  forbids 
a  precise  answer.  In  what  manner  is  this  influence 
to  be  exerted?  In  relation  to  what  objects?  The 
power  of  influencing  a  person,  in  the  sense  in  which 
it  is  here  used,  must  imply  a  power  of  conferring  a 
benefit  upon  him.  How  could  the  Senate  confer  a 
benefit  upon  the  President  by  the  manner  of  em- 
ploying their  right  of  negative  upon  his  nominations  ? 
If  it  be  said  they  might  sometimes  gratify  him  by  an 
acquiescence  in  a  favorite  choice,  when  public  mo- 
tives might  dictate  a  different  conduct,  I  answer, 
that  the  instances  in  which  the  President  could  be 
personally  interested  in  the  result,  would  be  too  few 
to  admit  of  his  being  materially  affected  by  the  com- 
pliances of  the  Senate.  The  power  which  can 
originate  the  disposition  of  honors  and  emoluments, 
is  more  likely  to  attract  than  to  be  attracted  by  the 
POWER  which  can  merely  obstruct  their  course.  If 
by  influencing  the  President  be  meant  restraining 
him,  this  is  precisely  what  must  have  been  intended. 
And  it  has  been  shown  that  the  restraint  would  be 
salutary,  at  the  same  time  that  it  would  not  be  such 
as  to  destroy  a  single  advantage  to  be  looked  for 
from  the  uncontrolled  agency  of  that  Magistrate. 
The  right  of  nomination  would  produce  all  the  good 
of  that  of  appointment,  and  would  in  a  great  measure 
avoid  its  evils. 

Upon  a  comparison  of  the  plan  for  the  appoint- 
ment of  the  officers  of  the  proposed  government  with 


The  Federalist  249 

that  which  is  estabHshed  by  the  constitution  of  this 
State,  a  decided  preference  must  be  given  to  the 
former.  In  that  plan  the  power  of  nomination  is  un- 
equivocally vested  in  the  Executive.  And  as  there 
would  be  a  necessity  for  submitting  each  nomination 
to  the  judgment  of  an  entire  branch  of  the  legisla- 
ture, the  circumstances  attending  an  appointment, 
from  the  mode  of  conducting  it,  would  naturally 
become  matters  of  notoriety ;  and  the  public  would 
be  at  no  loss  to  determine  what  part  had  been  per- 
formed by  the  different  actors.  The  blame  of  a  bad 
nomination  would  fall  upon  the  President  singly  and 
absolutely.  The  censure  of  rejecting  a  good  one 
would  lie  entirely  at  the  door  of  the  Senate;  aggra- 
vated by  the  consideration  of  their  having  counter- 
acted the  good  intentions  of  the  Executive.  If  aii 
ill  appointment  should  be  made,  the  Executive  for 
nominating,  and  the  Senate  for  approving,  would 
participate,  though  in  different  degrees,  in  the  op- 
probrium and  disgrace. 

The  reverse  of  all  this  characterizes  the  manner  of 
appointment  in  this  State.  The  council  of  appoint- 
ment consists  of  from  three  to  five  persons,  of  whom 
the  governor  is  always  one.  This  small  body,  shut 
up  in  a  private  apartment,  impenetrable  to  the  pub- 
lic eye,  proceed  to  the  execution  of  the  trust  com- 
mitted to  them.  It  is  known  that  the  governor 
claims  the  right  of  nomination,  upon  the  strength 
of  some  ambiguous  expressions  in  the  constitution; 
but  it  is  not  known  to  what  extent,  or  in  what  man- 
ner he  exercises  it;  nor  upon  what  occasions  he 
is  contradicted  or  opposed.     The  censure  of  a  bad 


250  Alexander  Hamilton 

appointraent,  on  account  of  the  uncertainty  of  its 
author,  and  for  want  of  a  determinate  object,  has 
neither  poignancy  nor  duration.  And  while  an  un- 
bounded field  for  cabal  and  intrigue  lies  open,  all 
idea  of  responsibility  is  lost.  The  most  that  the 
public  can  know,  is  that  the  governor  claims  the 
right  of  nomination;  that  two  out  of  the  inconsider- 
able number  of  jour  men  can  too  often  be  managed 
without  much  difficulty;  that  if  some  of  the  mem- 
bers of  a  particular  council  should  happen  to  be  of 
an  uncomplying  character,  it  is  frequently  not  im- 
possible to  get  rid  of  their  opposition  by  regulating 
the  times  of  meeting  in  such  a  manner  as  to  render 
their  attendance  inconvenient;  and  that  from  what- 
ever cause  it  may  proceed,  a  great  number  of  very 
improper  appointments  are  from  time  to  time  made. 
Whether  a  governor  of  this  State  avails  himself  of 
the  ascendant  he  must  necessarily  have,  in  this  deli- 
cate and  important  part  of  the  administration,  to 
prefer  to  offices  men  who  are  best  qualified  for  them, 
or  whether  he  prostitutes  that  advantage  to  the  ad- 
vancement of  persons  whose  chief  merit  is  their  im- 
plicit devotion  to  his  will,  and  to  the  support  of  a 
despicable  and  dangerous  system  of  personal  influ- 
ence, are  questions  which,  unfortunately  for  the 
community,  can  only  be  the  subjects  of  speculation 
and  conjecture. 

Every  mere  council  of  appointment,  however  con- 
stituted, will  be  a  conclave,  in  which  cabal  and  in- 
trigue will  have  their  full  scope.  Their  number, 
without  an  unwarrantable  increase  of  expense,  can- 
not be  large  enough  to  preclude  a  facility  of  com- 


The  Federalist  251 

bination.  And  as  each  member  will  have  his  friends 
and  connections  to  provide  for,  the  desire  of  mutual 
gratification  will  beget  a  scandalous  bartering  of 
votes  and  bargaining  for  places.  The  private  at- 
tachments of  one  man  might  easily  be  satisfied ;  but 
to  satisfy  the  private  attachments  of  a  dozen,  or  of 
twenty  men,  would  occasion  a  monopoly  of  all  the 
principal  employments  of  the  government  in  a  few 
families,  and  would  lead  more  directly  to  an  aristo- 
cracy or  an  oligarchy  than  any  measure  that  could  be 
contrived.  If,  to  avoid  an  accumulation  of  offices, 
there  was  to  be  a  frequent  change  in  the  persons  who 
were  to  compose  the  council,  this  would  involve  the 
mischiefs  of  a  mutable  administration  in  their  full 
extent.  Such  a  council  would  also  be  more  liable  to 
executive  influence  than  the  Senate,  because  they 
would  be  fewer  in  number,  and  would  act  less  imme- 
diately under  the  public  inspection.  Such  a  council, 
in  fine,  as  a  substitute  for  the  plan  of  the  convention, 
would  be  productive  of  an  increase  of  expense,  a 
multiplication  of  the  evils  which  spring  from  favor- 
itism and  intrigue  in  the  distribution  of  public  hon- 
ors, a  decrease  of  stability  in  the  administration  of 
the  government,  and  a  diminution  of  the  security 
against  an  undue  influence  of  the  Executive.  And 
yet  such  a  council  has  been  warmly  contended 
for  as  an  essential  amendment  in  the  proposed 
Constitution. 

I  could  not  with  propriety  conclude  my  observa- 
tions on  the  subject  of  appointments  without  taking 
notice  of  a  scheme  for  which  there  have  appeared 
some,  though  but  few  advocates;    I  mean  that  of 


252  Alexander  Hamilton 

uniting  the  House  of  Representatives  in  the  power 
of  making  them.  I  shall,  however,  do  little  more 
than  mention  it,  as  I  cannot  imagine  that  it  is  likely 
to  gain  the  countenance  of  any  considerable  part  of 
the  community.  A  body  so  fluctuating  and  at  the 
same  time  so  numerous,  can  never  be  deemed  proper 
for  the  exercise  of  that  power.  Its  unfitness  will 
appear  manifest  to  all,  when  it  is  recollected  that  in 
half  a  century  it  may  consist  of  three  or  four  hundred 
persons.  All  the  advantages  of  the  stability,  both 
of  the  executive  and  of  the  Senate,  would  be  de- 
feated by  this  union,  and  infinite  delays  and  em- 
barrassments would  be  occasioned.  The  example 
of  most  of  the  States  in  their  local  constitutions  en- 
courages us  to  reprobate  the  idea. 

The  only  remaining  powers  of  the  Executive  are 
comprehended  in  giving  information  to  Congress  of 
the  state  of  the  Union;  in  recommending  to  their 
consideration  such  measures  as  he  shall  judge  ex- 
pedient; in  convening  them,  or  either  branch,  upon 
extraordinary  occasions;  in  adjourning  them  when 
they  cannot  themselves  agree  upon  the  time  of  ad- 
journment ;  in  receiving  ambassadors  and  other  pub- 
lic ministers;  in  faithfully  executing  the  laws;  and 
in  commissioning  all  the  officers  of  the  United  States. 

Except  some  cavils  about  the  power  of  convening 
either  house  of  the  legislature,  and  that  of  receiving 
ambassadors,  no  objection  has  been  made  to  this 
class  of  authorities;  nor  could  they  possibly  admit 
of  any.  It  required,  indeed,  an  insatiable  avidity 
for  censure  to  invent  exceptions  to  the  parts  which 
have  been  excepted  to.     In  regard  to  the  power  of 


The  Federalist  253 

convening  either  house  of  the  legislature,  I  shall 
barely  remark,  that  in  respect  to  the  Senate  at  least, 
we  can  readily  discover  a  good  reason  for  it.  As 
this  body  has  a  concurrent  power  with  the  Execu- 
tive in  the  article  of  treaties,  it  might  often  be  neces- 
sary to  call  it  together  with  a  view  to  this  object, 
when  it  would  be  unnecessary  and  improper  to 
convene  the  House  of  Representatives.  As  to  the 
reception  of  ambassadors,  what  I  have  said  in  a 
former  paper  will  furnish  a  sufficient  answer. 

We  have  now  completed  a  survey  of  the  structure 
and  powers  of  the  executive  department,  which,  I 
have  endeavored  to  show,  combines,  as  far  as  re- 
publican principles  will  admit,  all  the  requisites  to 
energy.  The  remaining  inquiry  is:  Does  it  also 
combine  the  requisites  to  safety,  in  a  republican 
sense, — a  due  dependence  on  the  people,  a  due  re- 
sponsibility? The  answer  to  this  question  has  been 
anticipated  in  the  investigation  of  its  other  charac- 
teristics, and  is  satisfactorily  deducible  from  these 
circumstances;  from  the  election  of  the  President 
once  in  four  years  by  persons  immediately  chosen 
by  the  people  for  that  purpose;  and  from  his  being 
at  all  times  liable  to  impeachment,  trial,  dismission 
from  office,  incapacity  to  serve  in  any  other,  and  to 
forfeiture  of  life  and  estate  by  subsequent  prosecu- 
tion in  the  common  course  of  law.  But  these  pre- 
cautions, great  as  they  are,  are  not  the  only  ones 
which  the  plan  of  the  convention  has  provided  in 
favor  of  the  public  security.  In  the  only  instances 
in  which  the  abuse  of  the  executive  authority  was 
materially  to  be  feared,  the  Chief  Magistrate  of  the 


254  Alexander  Hamilton 

United  States  would,  by  that  plan,  be  subjected  to 
the  control  of  a  branch  of  the  legislative  body. 
What  more  could  be  desired  by  an  enlightened  and 
reasonable  people? 

PUBLIUS. 


From  McLean's  Edition,  New  York,  M.DCC.LXXXVIII 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXXVIII 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

We  proceed  now  to  an  examination  of  the  judi- 
ciary department  of  the  proposed  government. 

In  unfolding  the  defects  of  the  existing  Confedera- 
tion, the  utility  and  necessity  of  a  federal  judicature 
have  been  clearly  pointed  out.  It  is  the  less  neces- 
sary to  recapitulate  the  considerations  there  urged, 
as  the  propriety  of  the  institution  in  the  abstract  is 
not  disputed;  the  only  questions  which  have  been 
raised  being  relative  to  the  manner  of  constituting 
it,  and  to  its  extent.  To  these  points,  therefore,  our 
observations  shall  be  confined. 

The  manner  of  constituting  it  seems  to  embrace 
these  several  objects:  ist.  The  mode  of  appointing 
the  judges.  2d.  The  tenure  by  which  they  are  to 
hold  their  places.  3d.  The  partition  of  the  judiciary 
authority  between  different  courts,  and  their  rela- 
tions to  each  other. 

First.  As  to  the  mode  of  appointing  the  judges; 
this  is  the  same  with  that  of  appointing  the  officers 
of  the  Union  in  general,  and  has  been  so  fully  dis- 


The  Federalist  255 

cussed  in  the  two  last  numbers,  that  nothing  can  be 
said  here  which  would  not  be  useless  repetition. 

Second.  As  to  the  tenure  by  which  the  judges  are 
to  hold  their  places:  this  chiefly  concerns  their 
duration  in  office;  the  provisions  for  their  support; 
the  precautions  for  their  responsibility. 

According  to  the  plan  of  the  convention,  all 
judges  who  may  be  appointed  by  the  United  States 
are  to  hold  their  offices  during  good  behavior;  which 
is  conformable  to  the  most  approved  of  the  State 
constitutions,  and  among  the  rest,  to  that  of  this 
State.  Its  propriety  having  been  drawn  into  ques- 
tion by  the  adversaries  of  that  plan,  is  no  light 
symptom  of  the  rage  for  objection,  which  disorders 
their  imaginations  and  judgments.  The  standard 
of  good  behavior  for  the  continuance  in  office  of  the 
judicial  magistracy,  is  certainly  one  of  the  most 
valuable  of  the  modern  improvements  in  the  prac- 
tice of  government.  In  a  monarchy  it  is  an  excel- 
lent barrier  to  the  despotism  of  the  prince ;  in  a 
republic  it  is  a  no  less  excellent  barrier  to  the  en- 
croachments and  oppressions  of  the  representative 
body.  And  it  is  the  best  expedient  which  can  be 
devised  in  any  government,  to  secure  a  steady,  up- 
right, and  impartial  administration  of  the  laws. 

Whoever  attentively  considers  the  different  de- 
partments of  power  must  perceive,  that,  in  a  govern- 
ment in  which  they  are  separated  from  each  other, 
the  judiciary,  from  the  nature  of  its  functions,  will 
always  be  the  least  dangerous  to  the  political  rights 
of  the  Constitution;  because  it  will  be  least  in  a 
capacity  to  annoy  or  injure  them.     The  Executive 


256  Alexander  Hamilton 

not  only  dispenses  the  honors,  but  holds  the  sword 
of  the  community.  The  legislature  not  only  com- 
mands the  purse,  but  prescribes  the  rules  by  which 
the  duties  and  rights  of  every  citizen  are  to  be  regu- 
lated. The  judiciary,  on  the  contrary,  has  no  influ- 
ence over  either  the  sword  or  the  purse ;  no  direction 
either  of  the  strength  or  of  the  wealth  of  the  society; 
and  can  take  no  active  resolution  whatever.  It 
may  truly  be  said  to  have  neither  force  nor  will, 
but  merely  judgment;  and  must  ultimately  depend 
upon  the  aid  of  the  executive  arm  even  for  the 
efficacy  of  its  judgments. 

This  simple  view  of  the  matter  suggests  several 
important  consequences.  It  proves  incontestably, 
that  the  judiciary  is  beyond  comparison  the  weakest 
of  the  three  departments  of  power ' ;  that  it  can 
never  attack  with  success  either  of  the  other  two; 
and  that  all  possible  care  is  requisite  to  enable  it  to 
defend  itself  against  their  attacks.  It  equally 
proves,  that  though  individual  oppression  may  now 
and  then  proceed  from  the  courts  of  justice,  the 
general  liberty  of  the  people  can  never  be  endan- 
gered from  that  quarter;  I  mean  so  long  as  the 
judiciary  remains  truly  distinct  from  both  the  legis- 
lature and  the  Executive.  For  I  agree,  that  "there 
is  no  liberty,  if  the  power  of  judging  be  not  separated 
from  the  legislative  and  executive  powers."  *  And 
it  proves,  in  the  last  place,  that  as  liberty  can  have 
nothing  to  fear  from  the  judiciary  alone,  but  would 

*  The  celebrated  Montesqtiieu,  speaking  of  them,  says:  "Of  the 
three  powers  above  mentioned,  the  judiciary  is  next  to  nothing." — 
Spirit  of  Laws,  vol.  i.,  page  186. — Publius. 

"Idem,  page  181. — Publius. 


The  Federalist  257 

have  every  thing  to  fear  from  its  union  with  either 
of  the  other  departments;  that  as  all  the  effects  of 
such  a  union  must  ensue  from  a  dependence  of  the 
former  on  the  latter,  notwithstanding  a  nominal  and 
apparent  separation ;  that  as,  from  the  natural  feeble- 
ness of  the  judiciary,  it  is  in  continual  jeopardy  of 
being  overpowered,  awed,  or  influenced  by  its  co- 
ordinate branches;  and  that  as  nothing  can  con- 
tribute so  much  to  its  firmness  and  independence  as 
permanency  in  office,  this  quality  may  therefore  be 
justly  regarded  as  an  indispensable  ingredient  in  its 
constitution,  and,  in  a  great  measure,  as  the  citadel 
of  the  public  justice  and  the  public  security. 

The  complete  independence  of  the  courts  of  justice 
is  peculiarly  essential  in  a  limited  Constitution.  By 
a  limited  Constitution,  I  understand  one  which  con- 
tains certain  specified  exceptions  to  the  legislative 
authority;  such,  for  instance,  as  that  it  shall  pass 
no  bills  of  attainder,  no  ex-post-facto  laws,  and  the 
like.  Limitations  of  this  kind  can  be  preserved  in 
practice  no  other  way  than  through  the  medium  of 
courts  of  justice,  whose  duty  it  must  be  to  declare 
all  acts  contrary  to  the  manifest  tenor  of  the  Con- 
stitution void.  Without  this,  all  the  reservations 
of  particular  rights  or  privileges  would  amount  to 
nothing. 

Some  perplexity  respecting. the  rights  of  the  courts 
to  pronounce  legislative  acts  void,  because  contrary 
to  the  Constitution,  has  arisen  from  an  imagination 
that  the  doctrine  would  imply  a  superiority  of  the 
judiciary  to  the  legislative  power.  It  is  urged  that 
the  authority  which  can  declare  the  acts  of  another 

VOL.  XII.— 17. 


258  Alexander  Hamilton 

void,  must  necessarily  be  superior  to  the  one  whose 
acts  may  be  declared  void.  As  this  doctrine  is  of 
great  importance  in  all  the  American  constitutions, 
a  brief  discussion  of  the  ground  on  which  it  rests 
cannot  be  unacceptable. 

There  is  no  position  which  depends  on  clearer  prin- 
ciples, than  that  every  act  of  a  delegated  authority, 
contrary  to  the  tenor  of  the  commission  under  which 
it  is  exercised,  is  void.  No  legislative  act,  there- 
fore, contrary  to  the  Constitution,  can  be  valid.  To 
deny  this,  would  be  to  affirm,  that  the  deputy  is 
greater  than  his  principal ;  that  the  servant  is  above 
his  master;  that  the  representatives  of  the  people 
are  superior  to  the  people  themselves;  that  men 
acting  by  virtue  of  powers,  may  do  not  only  what 
their  powers  do  not  authorize,  but  what  they  forbid. 

If  it  be  said  that  the  legislative  body  are  them- 
selves the  constitutional  judges  of  their  own  powers, 
and  that  the  construction  they  put  upon  them  is 
conclusive  upon  the  other  departments,  it  may  be 
answered,  that  this  cannot  be  the  natural  presump- 
tion, where  it  is  not  to  be  collected  from  any  par- 
ticular provisions  in  the  Constitution.  It  is  not 
otherwise  to  be  supposed,  that  the  Constitution 
could  intend  to  enable  the  representatives  of  the 
people  to  substitute  their  will  to  that  of  their  con- 
stituents. It  is  far  more  rational  to  suppose,  that 
the  courts  were  designed  to  be  an  intermediate  body 
between  the  people  and  the  legislature,  in  order, 
among  other  things,  to  keep  the  latter  within  the 
limits  assigned  to  their  authority.  The  interpreta- 
tion of  the  laws  is  the  proper  and  peculiar  province 


The  Federalist  259 

of  the  courts.  A  constitution  is,  in  fact,  and  must 
be  regarded  by  the  judges,  as  a  fundamental  law. 
It  therefore  belongs  to  them  to  ascertain  its  meaning, 
as  well  as  the  meaning  of  any  particular  act  proceed- 
ing from  the  legislative  body.  If  there  should  hap- 
pen to  be  an  irreconcilable  variance  between  the  two, 
that  which  has  the  superior  obligation  and  validity 
ought,  of  course,  to  be  preferred;  or,  in  other  words, 
the  Constitution  ought  to  be  preferred  to  the  statute, 
the  intention  of  the  people  to  the  intention  of  their 
agents. 

Nor  does  this  conclusion  by  any  means  suppose  a 
superiority  of  the  judicial  to  the  legislative  power. 
It  only  supposes  that  the  power  of  the  people  is 
superior  to  both;  and  that  where  the  will  of  the 
legislature,  declared  in  its  statutes,  stands  in  op- 
position to  that  of  the  people,  declared  in  the  Con- 
stitution, the  judges  ought  to  be  governed  by  the 
latter  rather  than  the  former.  They  ought  to  regu- 
late their  decisions  by  the  fundamental  laws,  rather 
than  by  those  which  are  not  fundamental. 

This  exercise  of  judicial  discretion,  in  determining 
between  two  contradictory  laws,  is  exemplified  in  a 
familiar  instance.  It  not  uncommonly  happens, 
that  there  are  two  statutes  existing  at  one  time, 
clashing  in  whole  or  in  part  with  each  other,  and 
neither  of  them  containing  any  repealing  clause  or 
expression.  In  such  a  case,  it  is  the  province  of  the 
courts  to  liquidate  and  fix  their  meaning  and  opera- 
tion. So  far  as  they  can,  by  any  fair  construction, 
be  reconciled  to  each  other,  reason  and  law  conspire 
to  dictate  that  this  should  be  done;   where  this  is 


26o  Alexander  Hamilton 

impracticable,  it  becomes  a  matter  of  necessity  to 
give  effect  to  one,  in  exclusion  of  the  other.  The 
rule  which  has  obtained  in  the  courts  for  determin- 
ing their  relative  validity  is,  that  the  last  in  order  of 
time  shall  be  preferred  to  the  first.  But  this  is  a 
mere  rule  of  construction,  not  derived  from  any 
positive  law,  but  from  the  nature  and  reason  of  the 
thing.  It  is  a  rule  not  enjoined  upon  the  courts  by 
legislative  provision,  but  adopted  by  themselves,  as 
consonant  to  truth  and  propriety,  for  the  direction 
of  their  conduct  as  interpreters  of  the  law.  They 
thought  it  reasonable,  that  between  the  interfering 
acts  of  an  equal  authority,  that  which  was  the  last 
indication  of  its  will  should  have  the  preference. 

But  in  regard  to  the  interfering  acts  of  a  superior 
and  subordinate  authority,  of  an  original  and  de- 
rivative power,  the  nature  and  reason  of  the  thing 
indicate  the  converse  of  that  rule  as  proper  to  be 
followed.  They  teach  us  that  the  prior  act  of  a 
superior  ought  to  be  preferred  to  the  subsequent  act 
of  an  inferior  and  subordinate  authority;  and  that 
accordingly,  whenever  a  particular  statute  contra- 
venes the  Constitution,  it  will  be  the  duty  of  the 
judicial  tribunals  to  adhere  to  the  latter  and  dis- 
regard the  former. 

It  can  be  of  no  weight  to  say  that  the  courts,  on 
the  pretence  of  a  repugnancy,  may  substitute  their 
own  pleasure  to  the  constitutional  intentions  of  the 
legislature.  This  might  as  well  happen  in  the  case 
of  two  contradictory  statutes;  or  it  might  as  well 
happen  in  every  adjudication  upon  any  single  statute. 
The  courts  must  declare  the  sense  of  the  law ;  and  if 


The  Federalist  261 

they  should  be  disposed  to  exercise  will  instead  of 
JUDGMENT,  the  consequence  would  equally  be  the 
substitution  of  their  pleasure  to  that  of  the  legisla- 
tive body.  The  observation,  if  it  prove  any  thing, 
would  prove  that  there  ought  to  be  no  judges  dis- 
tinct from  that  body. 

If,  then,  the  courts  of  justice  are  to  be  considered 
as  the  bulwarks  of  a  limited  Constitution  against 
legislative  encroachments,  this  consideration  will 
afford  a  strong  argument  for  the  permanent  tenure 
of  judicial  offices,  since  nothing  will  contribute  so 
much  as  this  to  that  independent  spirit  in  the  judges 
which  must  be  essential  to  the  faithful  performance 
of  so  arduous  a  duty. 

This  independence  of  the  judges  is  equally  re- 
quisite to  guard  the  Constitution  and  the  rights  of 
individuals  from  the  effects  of  those  ill  humors,  which 
the  arts  of  designing  men,  or  the  influence  of  par- 
ticular conjunctures,  sometimes  disseminate  among 
the  people  themselves,  and  which,  though  they 
speedily  give  place  to  better  information,  and  more 
deliberate  reflection,  have  a  tendency,  in  the  mean- 
time, to  occasion  dangerous  innovations  in  the  gov- 
ernment, and  serious  oppressions  of  the  minor  party 
in  the  community.  Though  I  trust  the  friends  of 
the  proposed  Constitution  will  never  concur  with  its 
enemies,'  in  questioning  that  fundamental  principle 
of  republican  government,  which  admits  the  right 
of  the  people  to  alter  or  abolish  the  established 
Constitution,  whenever  they  find  it  inconsistent  with 

^Vide  "  Protest  of  the  Minority  of  the  Convention  of  Pennsylvania," 
Martin's  Speech,  etc. — Publius. 


262  Alexander  Hamilton 

their  happiness,  yet  it  is  not  to  be  inferred  from  this 
principle,  that  the  representatives  of  the  people, 
whenever  a  momentary  inclination  happens  to  lay 
hold  of  a  majority  of  their  constituents,  incompatible 
with  the  provisions  in  the  existing  Constitution, 
would,  on  that  account,  be  justifiable  in  a  violation 
of  those  provisions;  or  that  the  courts  would  be 
under  a  greater  obligation  to  connive  at  infractions 
in  this  shape,  than  when  they  had  proceeded  wholly 
from  the  cabals  of  the  representative  body.  Until 
the  people  have,  by  some  solemn  and  authoritative 
act,  annulled  or  changed  the  established  form,  it  is 
binding  upon  themselves  collectively,  as  well  as  in- 
dividually; and  no  presumption,  or  even  knowledge, 
of  their  sentiments,  can  warrant  their  representa- 
tives in  a  departure  from  it,  prior  to  such  an  act. 
But  it  is  easy  to  see,  that  it  would  require  an  un- 
common portion  of  fortitude  in  the  judges  to  do 
their  duty  as  faithful  guardians  of  the  Constitution, 
where  legislative  invasions  of  it  had  been  instigated 
by  the  major  voice  of  the  community. 

But  it  is  not  with  a  view  to  infractions  of  the  Con- 
stitution only,  that  the  independence  of  the  judges 
may  be  an  essential  safeguard  against  the  effects  of 
occasional  ill  humors  in  the  society.  These  some- 
times extend  no  farther  than  to  the  injury  of  the 
private  rights  of  particular  classes  of  citizens,  by 
unjust  and  partial  laws.  Here  also  the  firmness  of 
the  judicial  magistracy  is  of  vast  importance  in 
mitigating  the  severity  and  confining  the  operation 
of  such  laws.  It  not  only  serves  to  moderate  the 
immediate  mischiefs  of  those  which  may  have  been 


The  Federalist  263 

passed,  but  it  operates  as  a  check  upon  the  legisla- 
tive body  in  passing  them;  who,  perceiving  that 
obstacles  to  the  success  of  iniquitous  intention  are  to 
be  expected  from  the  scruples  of  the  courts,  are  in  a 
manner  compelled,  by  the  very  motives  of  the  in- 
justice they  meditate,  to  qualify  their  attempts. 
This  is  a  circumstance  calculated  to  have  more  in- 
fluence upon  the  character  of  our  governments,  than 
but  few  may  be  aware  of.  The  benefits  of  the  in- 
tegrity and  moderation  of  the  judiciary  have  already 
been  felt  in  more  States  than  one;  and  though  they 
may  have  displeased  those  whose  sinister  expecta- 
tions they  may  have  disappointed,  they  must  have 
commanded  the  esteem  and  applause  of  all  the 
virtuous  and  disinterested.  Considerate  men,  of 
every  description,  ought  to  prize  whatever  will  tend 
to  beget  or  fortify  that  temper  in  the  courts;  as  no 
man  can  be  sure  that  he  may  not  be  to-morrow  the 
victim  of  a  spirit  of  injustice,  by  which  he  may  be 
a  gainer  to-day.  And  every  man  must  now  feel,  that 
the  inevitable  tendency  of  such  a  spirit  is  to  sap  the 
foundations  of  public  and  private  confidence,  and  to 
introduce  in  its  stead  universal  distrust  and  distress. 
That  inflexible  and  uniform  adherence  to  the  rights 
of  the  Constitution,  and  of  individuals,  which  we 
perceive  to  be  indispensable  in  the  courts  of  justice, 
can  certainly  not  be  expected  from  judges  who  hold 
their  offices  by  a  temporary  commission.  Periodical 
appointments,  however  regulated,  or  by  whomsoever 
made,  would,  in  some  way  or  other,  be  fatal  to  their 
necessary  independence.  If  the  power  of  making 
them  was  committed  either  to  the   Executive  or 


264  Alexander  Hamilton 

legislature,  there  would  be  danger  of  an  improper 
complaisance  to  the  branch  which  possessed  it;  if 
to  both,  there  would  be  an  unwillingness  to  hazard 
the  displeasure  of  either;  if  to  the  people,  or  to  per- 
sons chosen  by  them  for  the  special  purpose,  there 
would  be  too  great  a  disposition  to  consult  popularity 
to  justify  a  reliance  that  nothing  would  be  consulted 
but  the  Constitution  and  the  laws. 

There  is  yet  a  further  and  a  weightier  reason  for 
the  permanency  of  the  judicial  offices,  which  is  de- 
ducible  from  the  nature  of  the  qualifications  they 
require.  It  has  been  frequently  remarked,  with 
great  propriety,  that  a  voluminous  code  of  laws  is 
one  of  the  inconveniences  necessarily  connected  with 
the  advantages  of  a  free  government.  To  avoid  an 
arbitrary  discretion  in  the  courts,  it  is  indispensable 
that  they  should  be  bound  down  by  strict  rules  and 
precedents,  which  serve  to  define  and  point  out 
their  duty  in  every  particular  case  that  comes  before 
them;  and  it  will  readily  be  conceived  from  the 
variety  of  controversies  which  grow  out  of  the  folly 
and  wickedness  of  mankind,  that  the  records  of 
those  precedents  must  unavoidably  swell  to  a  very 
considerable  bulk,  and  must  demand  long  and  la- 
borious study  to  acquire  a  competent  knowledge  of 
them.  Hence  it  is,  that  there  can  be  but  few  men 
in  the  society  who  will  have  sufficient  skill  in  the  laws 
to  qualify  them  for  the  stations  of  judges.  And 
making  the  proper  deductions  for  the  ordinary  de- 
pravity of  human  nature,  the  number  must  be  still 
smaller  of  those  who  unite  the  requisite  integrity 
with  the  requisite  knowledge.     These  considerations 


The  Federalist  265 

apprise  us,  that  the  government  can  have  no  great 
option  between  fit  character;  and  that  a  temporary- 
duration  in  office,  which  would  naturally  discourage 
such  characters  from  quitting  a  lucrative  line  of 
practice  to  accept  a  seat  on  the  bench,  would  have  a 
tendency  to  throw  the  administration  of  justice  into 
hands  less  able,  and  less  well  qualified,  to  conduct  it 
with  utility  and  dignity.  In  the  present  circum- 
stances of  this  country,  and  in  those  in  which  it  is 
likely  to  be  for  a  long  time  to  come,  the  disadvan- 
tages on  this  score  would  be  greater  than  they  may 
at  first  sight  appear;  but  it  must  be  confessed,  that 
they  are  far  inferior  to  those  which  present  them- 
selves under  the  other  aspects  of  the  subject. 

Upon  the  whole,  there  can  be  no  room  to  doubt 
that  the  convention  acted  wisely  in  copying  from  the 
models  of  those  constitutions  which  have  estab- 
lished good  behavior  as  the  tenure  of  their  judicial 
offices,  in  point  of  duration;  and  that  so  far  from 
being  blamable  on  this  account,  their  plan  would 
have  been  inexcusably  defective,  if  it  had  wanted 
this  important  feature  of  good  government.  The 
experience  of  Great  Britain  affords  an  illustrious 
comment  on  the  excellence  of  the  institution. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  McLean's  Edition,  New  York,  M.DCC.LXXXVIII 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXXIX 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

Next  to  permanency  in  office,  nothing  can  con- 
tribute more  to  the  independence  of  the  judges  than 


266  Alexander  Hamilton 

a  fixed  provision  for  their  support.  The  remark 
made  in  relation  to  the  President  is  equally  applica- 
ble here.  In  the  general  course  of  human  nature, 
a  power  over  a  man's  subsistence  amounts  to  a  power 
over  his  will.  And  we  can  never  hope  to  see  realized 
in  practice,  the  complete  separation  of  the  judicial 
from  the  legislative  power,  in  any  system  which 
leaves  the  former  dependent  for  pecuniary  resources 
on  the  occasional  grants  of  the  latter.  The  enlight- 
ened friends  to  good  government  in  every  State,  have 
seen  cause  to  lament  the  want  of  precise  and  ex- 
plicit precautions  in  the  State  constitutions  on  this 
head.  Some  of  these  indeed  have  declared  that 
permanent '  salaries  should  be  established  for  the 
judges;  but  the  experiment  has  in  some  instances 
shown  that  such  expressions  are  not  sufficiently  de- 
finite to  preclude  legislative  evasions.  Something 
still  more  positive  and  unequivocal  has  been  evinced 
to  be  requisite.  The  plan  of  the  convention  accord- 
ingly has  provided  that  the  judges  of  the  United 
States  ''  shall  at  stated  times  receive  for  their  services 
a  compensation  which  shall  not  be  diminished  dur- 
ing their  continuance  in  office." 

This,  all  circumstances  considered,  is  the  most 
eligible  provision  that  could  have  been  devised.  It 
will  readily  be  understood  that  the  fluctuations  in 
the  value  of  money  and  in  the  state  of  society  ren- 
dered a  fixed  rate  of  compensation  in  the  Constitu- 
tion inadmissible.  What  might  be  extravagant 
to-day,  might  in  half  a  century  become  penurious  and 

^Vide  "Constitution  of  Massachusetts,"  chapter  2,  section  i,  article 

13. PUBLIUS. 


The  Federalist  267 

inadequate.  It  was  therefore  necessary  to  leave  it 
to  the  discretion  of  the  legislature  to  vary  its  provi- 
sions in  conformity  to  the  variations  in  circum- 
stances, yet  under  such  restrictions  as  to  put  it  out 
of  the  power  of  that  body  to  change  the  condition  of 
the  individual  for  the  worse.  A  man  may  then  be 
sure  of  the  ground  upon  which  he  stands,  and  can 
never  be  deterred  from  his  duty  by  the  apprehension 
of  being  placed  in  a  less  eligible  situation.  The 
clause  which  has  been  quoted  combines  both  advan- 
tages. The  salaries  of  judicial  officers  may  from 
time  to  time  be  altered,  as  occasion  shall  require,  yet 
so  as  never  to  lessen  the  allowance  with  which  any 
particular  judge  comes  into  office,  in  respect  to  him. 
It  will  be  observed  that  a  difference  has  been  made 
by  the  convention  between  the  compensation  of  the 
President  and  of  the  judges.  That  of  the  former 
can  neither  be  increased  nor  diminished;  that 
of  the  latter  can  only  not  be  diminished.  This 
probably  arose  from  the  difference  in  the  duration 
of  the  respective  offices.  As  the  President  is  to  be 
elected  for  no  more  than  four  years,  it  can  rarely 
happen  that  an  adequate  salary,  fixed  at  the  com- 
mencement of  that  period,  will  not  continue  to  be 
such  to  its  end.  But  with  regard  to  the  judges,  who, 
if  they  behave  properly,  will  be  secured  in  their 
places  for  life,  it  may  well  happen,  especially  in  the 
early  stages  of  the  government,  that  a  stipend,  which 
would  be  very  sufficient  at  their  first  appointment, 
would  become  too  small  in  the  progress  of  their  service. 
This  provision  for  the  support  of  the  judges  bears 
every  mark  of  prudence  and  efficacy ;  and  it  may  be 


268  Alexander  Hamilton 

safely  affirmed  that,  together  with  the  permanent 
tenure  of  their  offices,  it  affords  a  better  prospect  of 
their  independence  than  is  discoverable  in  the  con- 
stitutions of  any  of  the  States  in  regard  to  their  own 
judges. 

The  precautions  for  their  responsibility  are  com- 
prised in  the  article  respecting  impeachments.  They 
are  liable  to  be  impeached  for  malconduct  by  the 
House  of  Representatives,  and  tried  by  the  Senate; 
and,  if  convicted,  may  be  dismissed  from  office,  and 
disqualified  for  holding  any  other.  This  is  the  only 
provision  on  the  point  which  is  consistent  with  the 
necessary  independence  of  the  judicial  character, 
and  is  the  only  one  which  we  find  in  our  own  Con- 
stitution in  respect  to  our  own  judges. 

The  want  of  a  provision  for  removing  the  judges 
on  account  of  inability  has  been  a  subject  of  com- 
plaint. But  all  considerate  men  will  be  sensible 
that  such  a  provision  would  either  not  be  practised 
upon  or  would  be  more  liable  to  abuse  than  calculated 
to  answer  any  good  purpose.  The  mensuration  of 
the  faculties  of  the  mind  has,  I  believe,  no  place  in 
the  catalogue  of  known  arts.  An  attempt  to  fix  the 
boundary  between  the  regions  of  ability  and  in- 
ability, would  much  oftener  give  scope  to  personal 
and  party  attachments  and  enmities  than  advance 
the  interests  of  justice  or  the  public  good.  The 
result,  except  in  the  case  of  insanity,  must  for  the 
most  part  be  arbitrary;  and  insanity,  without  any 
formal  or  express  provision,  may  be  safely  pro- 
nounced to  be  a  virtual  disqualification. 

The  constitution  of  New  York,  to  avoid  investiga- 


The  Federalist  269 

tions  that  must  forever  be  vague  and  dangerous,  has 
taken  a  particular  age  as  the  criterion  of  inability. 
No  man  can  be  a  judge  beyond  sixty.  I  believe  there 
are  few  at  present  who  do  not  disapprove  of  this 
provision.  There  is  no  station,  in  relation  to  which 
it  is  less  proper  than  to  that  of  a  judge.  The  de- 
liberating and  comparing  faculties  generally  pre- 
serve their  strength  much  beyond  that  period  in  men 
who  survive  it;  and  when,  in  addition  to  this  cir- 
cumstance, we  consider  how  few  there  are  who 
outlive  the  season  of  intellectual  vigor,  and  how 
improbable  it  is  that  any  considerable  portion  of 
the  bench,  whether  more  or  less  numerous,  should 
be  in  such  a  situation  at  the  same  time,  we  shall  be 
ready  to  conclude  that  limitations  of  this  sort  have 
little  to  recommend  them.  In  a  republic,  where 
fortunes  are  not  affluent,  and  pensions  not  expe- 
dient, the  dismission  of  men  from  stations  in  which 
they  have  served  their  country  long  and  usefully,  on 
which  they  depend  for  subsistence,  and  from  which 
it  will  be  too  late  to  resort  to  any  other  occupation 
for  a  livelihood,  ought  to  have  some  better  apology 
to  humanity  than  is  to  be  found  in  the  imaginary 
danger  of  a  superannuated  bench.  Publius. 


From  McLean's  Edition,  New  York,  M.DCC.LXXXVIII 
THE  FEDERALIST/   No.  LXXX 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

To  judge  with  accuracy  of  the  proper  extent  of  the 
federal  judicature,  it  will  be  necessary  to  consider, 
in  the  first  place,  what  are  its  proper  objects. 


270  Alexander  Hamilton 

It  seems  scarcely  to  admit  of  controversy,  that  the 
judiciary  authority  of  the  Union  ought  to  extend  to 
these  several  descriptions  of  cases:  ist,  to  all  those 
which  arise  out  of  the  laws  of  the  United  States, 
passed  in  pursuance  of  their  just  and  constitutional 
powers  of  legislation ;  2d,  to  all  those  which  concern 
the  execution  of  the  provisions  expressly  contained 
in  the  articles  of  Union ;  3d,  to  all  those  in  which  the 
United  States  are  a  party;  4th,  to  all  those  which 
involve  the  peace  of  the  Confederacy,  whether 
they  relate  to  the  intercourse  between  the  United 
States  and  foreign  nations,  or  to  that  between  the 
States  themselves;  5th,  to  all  those  which  originate 
on  the  high  seas,  and  are  of  admiralty  or  maritime 
jurisdiction;  and,  lastly,  to  all  those  in  which  the 
State  tribunals  cannot  be  supposed  to  be  impartial 
and  unbiased. 

The  first  point  depends  upon  this  obvious  con- 
sideration, that  there  ought  always  to  be  a  constitu- 
tional method  of  giving  efficacy  to  constitutional 
provisions.  What,  for  instance,  would  avail  re- 
strictions on  the  authority  of  the  State  legislatures, 
without  some  constitutional  mode  of  enforcing  the 
observance  of  them?  The  States,  by  the  plan  of 
the  convention,  are  prohibited  from  doing  a  variety 
of  things,  some  of  which  are  incompatible  with  the 
interests  of  the  Union,  and  others  with  the  principles 
of  good  government.  The  imposition  of  duties  on 
imported  articles,  and  the  emission  of  paper  money, 
are  specimens  of  each  kind.  No  man  of  sense  will 
believe,  that  such  prohibitions  would  be  scrupulously 
regarded,  without  some  effectual  power  in  the  gov- 


The  Federalist  271 

ernment  to  restrain  or  correct  the  infractions  of 
them.  This  power  must  either  be  a  direct  negative 
on  the  State  laws,  or  an  authority  in  the  federal 
courts  to  overrule  such  as  might  be  in  manifest  con- 
travention of  the  articles  of  Union.  There  is  no 
third  course  that  I  can  imagine.  The  latter  appears 
to  have  been  thought  by  the  convention  preferable  to 
the  former,  and,  I  presume,  will  be  most  agreeable 
to  the  States. 

As  to  the  second  point,  it  is  impossible,  by  any 
argument  or  comment,  to  make  it  clearer  than  it  is 
in  itself.  If  there  are  such  things  as  political  axioms, 
the  propriety  of  the  judicial  power  of  a  government 
being  coextensive  with  its  legislative,  may  be  ranked 
among  the  number.  The  mere  necessity  of  uniform- 
ity in  the  interpretation  of  the  national  laws,  de- 
cides the  question.  Thirteen  independent  courts  of 
final  jurisdiction  over  the  same  causes,  arising  upon 
the  same  laws,  is  a  hydra  in  government,  from  which 
nothing  but  contradiction  and  confusion  can  proceed. 

Still  less  need  be  said  in  regard  to  the  third  point. 
Controversies  between  the  nation  and  its  members 
or  citizens,  can  only  be  properly  referred  to  the  na- 
tional tribunals.  Any  other  plan  would  be  contrary 
to  reason,  to  precedent,  and  to  decorum. 

The  fourth  point  rests  on  this  plain  proposition, 
that  the  peace  of  the  whole  ought  not  to  be  left  at 
the  disposal  of  a  part.  The  Union  will  undoubtedly 
be  answerable  to  foreign  powers  for  the  conduct  of 
its  members.  And  the  responsibility  for  an  injury 
ought  ever  to  be  accompanied  with  the  faculty  of 
preventing  it.     As  the  denial  or  perversion  of  justice 


272  Alexander  Hamilton 

by  the  sentences  of  courts,  as  well  as  in  any  other 
manner,  is  with  reason  classed  among  the  just  causes 
of  war,  it  will  follow  that  the  federal  judiciary  ought 
to  have  cognizance  of  all  causes  in  which  the  citizens 
of  other  countries  are  concerned.  This  is  not  less 
essential  to  the  preservation  of  the  public  faith,  than 
to  the  security  of  the  public  tranquillity.  A  distinc- 
tion may  perhaps  be  imagined  between  cases  arising 
upon  treaties  and  the  laws  of  nations  and  those  which 
may  stand  merely  on  the  footing  of  the  municipal 
law.  The  former  kind  may  be  supposed  proper  for 
the  federal  jurisdiction,  the  latter  for  that  of  the 
States.  But  it  is  at  least  problematical,  whether  an 
unjust  sentence  against  a  foreigner,  where  the  sub- 
ject of  controversy  was  wholly  relative  to  the  lex 
loci,  would  not,  if  unredressed,  be  an  aggression  upon 
his  sovereign,  as  well  as  one  which  violated  the 
stipulations  of  a  treaty  or  the  general  law  of  nations. 
And  a  still  greater  objection  to  the  distinction  would 
result  from  the  immense  difficulty,  if  not  impossi- 
bility, of  a  practical  discrimination  between  the 
cases  of  one  complexion  and  those  of  the  other.  So 
great  a  proportion  of  the  cases  in  which  foreigners 
are  parties,  involve  national  questions,  that  it  is  by 
far  most  safe  and  most  expedient  to  refer  all  those  in 
which  they  are  concerned  to  the  national  tribunals. 
The  power  of  determining  causes  between  two 
States,  between  one  State  and  the  citizens  of  another, 
and  between  the  citizens  of  different  States,  is 
perhaps  not  less  essential  to  the  peace  of  the  Union 
than  that  which  has  been  just  examined.  History 
gives  us  a  horrid  picture  of  the  dissensions  and  pri- 


The  Federalist  273 

vate  wars  which  distracted  and  desolated  Germany 
prior  to  the  institution  of  the  Imperial  Chamber  by 
Maximilian,  towards  the  close  of  the  fifteenth  cent- 
ury, and  informs  us,  at  the  same  time,  of  the  vast 
influence  of  that  institution  in  appeasing  the  disor- 
ders and  establishing  the  tranquillity  of  the  empire.  • 
This  was  a  court  invested  with  authority  to  decide 
finally  all  difEerences  among  the  members  of  the  Ger- 
manic body. 

A  method  of  terminating  territorial  disputes  be- 
tween the  States,  under  the  authority  of  the  federal 
head,  was  not  unattended  to,  even  in  the  imperfect 
system  by  which  they  have  been  hitherto  held  to- 
gether. But  there  are  many  other  sources,  besides 
interfering  claims  of  boundary,  from  which  bicker- 
ings and  animosities  may  spring  up  among  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Union.  To  some  of  these  we  have  been 
witnesses  in  the  course  of  our  past  experience.  It 
will  readily  be  conjectured  that  I  allude  to  the  fraud- 
ulent laws  which  have  been  passed  in  too  many  of 
the  States.  And  though  the  proposed  Constitution 
establishes  particular  guards  against  the  repetition 
of  those  instances  which  have  heretofore  made  their 
appearance,  yet  it  is  warrantable  to  apprehend  that 
the  spirit  which  produced  them  will  assume  new  - 
shapes  that  could  not  be  foreseen  nor  specifically  ^ 
provided  against.  Whatever  practices  may  have  a 
tendency  to  disturb  the  harmony  between  the  States 
are  proper  objects  of  federal  superintendence  and 
control. 

It  may  be  esteemed  the  basis  of  the  Union,  that 
"  the  citizens  of  each  State  shall  be  entitled  to  all  the 

VOL,  XII.  — 18.     . 


2  74  Alexander  Hamilton 

privileges  and  immunities  of  citizens  of  the  several 
States."  And  if  it  be  a  just  principle  that  every 
government  ought  to  possess  the  means  of  executing 
its  own  provisions  by  its  own  authority,  it  will  follow, 
that  in  order  to  the  inviolable  maintenance  of  that 
equality  of  privileges  and  immunities  to  which  the 
citizens  of  the  Union  will  be  entitled,  the  national 
judiciary  ought  to  preside  in  all  cases  in  which  one 
State  or  its  citizens  are  opposed  to  another  State  or 
its  citizens.  To  secure  the  full  effect  of  so  funda- 
mental a  provision  against  all  evasion  and  subter- 
fuge, it  is  necessary  that  its  construction  should  be 
committed  to  that  tribunal  which,  having  no  local 
attachments,  will  be  likely  to  be  impartial  between 
the  different  States  and  their  citizens,  and  which, 
owing  its  official  existence  to  the  Union,  will  never 
be  likely  to  feel  any  bias  inauspicious  to  the  prin- 
ciples on  which  it  is  founded. 

The  fifth  point  will  demand  little  animadversion. 
The  most  bigoted  idolizers  of  State  authority  have 
not  thus  far  shown  a  disposition  to  deny  the  national 
judiciary  the  cognizances  of  maritime  causes.  These 
so  generally  depend  on  the  laws  of  nations,  and  so 
commonly  affect  the  rights  of  foreigners,  that  they 
fall  within  the  considerations  which  are  relative  to 
the  public  peace.  The  most  important  part  of  them 
are,  by  the  present  Confederation,  submitted  to 
federal  jurisdiction. 

The  reasonableness  of  the  agency  of  the  national 
courts  in  cases  in  which  the  State  tribunals  cannot 
be  supposed  to  be  impartial,  speaks  for  itself.  No 
man  ought  certainly  to  be  a  judge  in  his  own  cause, 


The  Federalist  275 

or  in  any  cause  in  respect  to  which  he  has  the  least 
interest  or  bias.  This  principle  has  no  inconsid- 
erable weight  in  designating  the  federal  courts  as 
the  proper  tribunals  for  the  determination  of  contro- 
versies between  different  States  and  their  citizens. 
And  it  ought  to  have  the  same  operation  in  regard 
to  some  cases  between  citizens  of  the  same  State. 
Claims  to  land  under  grants  of  different  States, 
founded  upon  adverse  pretensions  of  boundary,  are 
of  this  description.  The  courts  of  neither  of  the 
granting  States  could  be  expected  to  be  unbiased. 
The  laws  may  have  even  prejudged  the  question, 
and  tied  the  courts  down  to  decisions  in  favor  of  the 
grants  of  the  State  to  which  they  belonged.  And 
even  where  this  had  not  been  done,  it  would  be  nat- 
ural that  the  judges,  as  men,  should  feel  a  strong 
predilection  to  the  claims  of  their  own  government. 
Having  thus  laid  down  and  discussed  the  prin- 
ciples which  ought  to  regulate  the  constitution  of  the 
federal  judiciary,  we  will  proceed  to  test,  by  these 
principles,  the  particular  powers  of  which,  according 
to  the  plan  of  the  convention,  it  is  to  be  composed. 
It  is  to  comprehend  ''all  cases  in  law  and  equity  aris- 
ing under  the  Constitution,  the  laws  of  the  United 
States,  and  treaties  made,  or  which  shall  be  made, 
under  their  authority;  to  all  cases  affecting  am- 
bassadors, other  public  ministers,  and  consuls;  to 
all  cases  of  admiralty  and  maritime  jurisdiction ;  to 
controversies  to  which  the  United  States  shall  be  a 
party ;  to  controversies  between  two  or  more  States ; 
between  a  State  and  citizens  of  another  State;  be- 
tween citizens  of  different  States;   between  citizens 


276  Alexander  Hamilton 

of  the  same  State  claiming  lands  and  grants  of 
different  States ;  and  between  a  State  or  the  citizens 
thereof  and  foreign  states,  citizens,  and  subjects." 
This  constitutes  the  entire  mass  of  the  judicial  au- 
thority of  the  Union.  Let  us  now  review  it  in  de- 
tail.    It  is,  then,  to  extend: 

First.  To  all  cases  in  law  and  equity,  arising 
under  the  Constitution  and  the  laws  of  the  United 
States,  This  corresponds  with  the  two  first  classes 
of  causes,  which  have  been  enumerated,  as  proper 
for  the  jurisdiction  of  the  United  States.  It  has  been 
asked,  what  is  meant  by  ''cases  arising  under  the 
Constitution,"  in  contradistinction  from  those  ''aris- 
ing under  the  laws  of  the  United  States"?  The 
difference  has  been  already  explained.  All  the  re- 
strictions upon  the  authority  of  the  State  legisla- 
tures furnish  examples  of  it.  They  are  not,  for 
stance,  to  emit  paper  money;  but  the  interdiction 
results  from  the  Constitution,  and  will  have  no  con- 
nection with  any  law  of  the  United  States.  Should 
paper  money,  notwithstanding,  be  emitted,  the  con- 
troversies concerning  it  would  be  cases  arising  under 
the  Constitution  and  not  the  laws  of  the  United 
States,  in  the  ordinary  signification  of  the  terms. 
This  may  serve  as  a  sample  of  the  whole. 

It  has  also  been  asked,  what  need  of  the  word 
"equity"?  What  equitable  causes  can  grow  out  of 
the  Constitution  and  laws  of  the  United  States? 
There  is  hardly  a  subject  of  litigation  between  indi- 
viduals, which  may  not  involve  those  ingredients  of 
fraud,  accident,  trust,  or  hardship,  which  would  render 
the  matter  an  object  of  equitable  rather  than  of  legal 


The  Federalist  277 

jurisdiction,  as  the  distinction  is  known  and  estab- 
Hshed  in  several  of  the  States.  It  is  the  peculiar 
province,  for  instance,  of  a  court  of  equity  to  relieve 
against  what  are  called  hard  bargains:  these  are 
contracts  in  which,  though  there  may  have  been  no 
direct  fraud  or  deceit,  sufficient  to  invalidate  them 
in  a  court  of  law,  yet  there  may  have  been  some 
undue  and  unconscionable  advantage  taken  of  the 
necessities  or  misfortunes  of  one  of  the  parties,  which 
a  court  of  equity  would  not  tolerate.  In  such  cases, 
where  foreigners  were  concerned  on  either  side,  it 
would  be  impossible  for  the  federal  judicatories  to 
do  justice  without  an  equitable  as  well  as  a  legal 
jurisdiction.  Agreements  to  convey  lands  claimed 
under  the  grants  of  different  States,  may  afford  an- 
other example  of  the  necessity  of  an  equitable  juris- 
diction in  the  federal  courts.  This  reasoning  may 
not  be  so  palpable  in  those  States  where  the  formal 
and  technical  distinction  between  law  and  equity 
is  not  maintained,  as  in  this  State,  where  it  is  exem- 
plified by  every  day's  practice. 

The  judiciary  authority  of  the  Union  is  to  extend: 
Second.  To  treaties  made,  or  which  shall  be  made, 
under  the  authority  of  the  United  States,  and  to  all 
cases  affecting  ambassadors,  other  public  ministers, 
and  consuls.  These  belong  to  the  fourth  class  of 
the  enumerated  cases,  as  they  have  an  evident  con- 
nection with  the  preservation  of  the  national  peace. 
Third.  To  cases  of  admiralty  and  maritime  juris- 
diction. These  form,  altogether,  the  fifth  of  the 
enumerated  classes  of  causes  proper  for  the  cogni- 
zance of  the  national  courts. 


278  Alexander  Hamilton 

Fourth.  To  controversies  to  which  the  United 
States  shall  be  a  party.  These  constitute  the  third 
of  those  classes. 

Fifth.  To  controversies  between  two  or  more 
States;  between  a  State  and  citizens  of  another 
State;  between  citizens  of  different  States.  These 
belong  to  the  fourth  of  those  classes,  and  partake,  in 
some  measure,  of  the  nature  of  the  last. 

Sixth.  To  cases  between  the  citizens  of  the  same 
State,  claiming  lands  under  grants  of  different  States. 
These  fall  within  the  last  class,  and  are  the  only 
instances  in  which  the  proposed  Constitution  directly 
contemplates  the  cognizance  of  disputes  between  the 
citizens  of  the  same  State. 

Seventh.  To  cases  between  a  State  and  the  citi- 
zens thereof,  and  foreign  States,  citizens,  or  subjects. 
These  have  been  already  explained  to  belong  to  the 
fourth  of  the  enumerated  classes,  and  have  been 
shown  to  be,  in  a  peculiar  manner,  the  proper  sub- 
jects of  the  national  judicature. 

From  this  review  of  the  particular  powers  of  the 
federal  judiciary,  as  marked  out  in  the  Constitution, 
it  appears  that  they  are  all  conformable  to  the  prin- 
ciples which  ought  to  have  governed  the  structure  of 
that  department,  and  which  were  necessary  to  the 
perfection  of  the  system.  If  some  partial  incon- 
veniences should  appear  to  be  connected  with  the 
incorporation  of  any  of  them  into  the  plan,  it  ought 
to  be  recollected  that  the  national  legislature  will 
have  ample  authority  to  make  such  exceptions,  and 
to  prescribe  such  regulations  as  will  be  calculated  to 
obviate  or  remove  these  inconveniences.     The  pos- 


The  Federalist  279 

sibility  of  particular  mischiefs  can  never  be  viewed, 
by  a  well-informed  mind,  as  a  solid  objection  to  a 
general  principle,  which  is  calculated  to  avoid  gen- 
eral mischiefs  and  to  obtain  general  advantages. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  McLean's  Edition,  New  York,  M.DCC.LXXXVIII. 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXXXI 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

Let  us  now  return  to  the  partition  of  the  judiciary 
authority  between  different  courts  and  their  relations 
to  each  other. 

"The  judicial  power  of  the  United  States  is'*  (by 
the  plan  of  the  convention)  "to  be  vested  in  one 
Supreme  Court,  and  in  such  inferior  courts  as 
the  Congress  may,  from  time  to  time,  ordain  and 
establish."  ' 

That  there  ought  to  be  one  court  of  supreme  and 
final  jurisdiction,  is  a  proposition  which  is  not  likely 
to  be  contested.  The  reasons  for  it  have  been  as- 
signed in  another  place,  and  are  too  obvious  to  need 
repetition.  The  only  question  that  seems  to  have 
been  raised  concerning  it,  is,  whether  it  ought  to  be 
a  distinct  body  or  a  branch  of  the  legislature.  The 
same  contradiction  is  observable  in  regard  to  this 
matter  which  has  been  remarked  in  several  other 
cases.  The  very  men  who  object  to  the  Senate 
as  a  court  of  impeachments,  on  the  ground  of 
an  improper  intermixture  of  powers,  advocate,  by 

'  Article  3,  sec.  i. — Publius 


28o  Alexander  Hamilton 

implication  at  least,  the  propriety  of  vesting  the 
ultimate  decision  of  all  causes,  in  the  whole  or  in  a 
part  of  the  legislative  body. 

The  arguments,  or  rather  suggestions,  upon  which 
this  charge  is  founded,  are  to  this  effect:  "The  au- 
thority of  the  proposed  Supreme  Court  of  the  United 
States,  which  is  to  be  a  separate  and  independent 
body,  will  be  superior  to  that  of  the  legislature.  The 
power  of  construing  the  laws  according  to  the  spirit 
of  the  Constitution,  will  enable  that  court  to  mould 
them  into  whatever  shape  it  may  think  proper;  es- 
pecially as  its  decisions  will  not  be  in  any  manner 
subject  to  the  revision  or  correction  of  the  legislative 
body.  This  is  as  unprecedented  as  it  is  dangerous. 
In  Britain,  the  judicial  power,  in  the  last  resort,  re- 
sides in  the  House  of  Lords,  which  is  a  branch  of 
the  legislature;  and  this  part  of  the  British  govern- 
ment has  been  imitated  in  the  State  constitutions 
in  general.  The  Parliament  of  Great  Britain,  and 
the  legislatures  of  the  several  States,  can  at  any  time 
rectify,  by  law,  the  exceptionable  decisions  of  their 
respective  courts.  But  the  errors  and  usurpations 
of  the  Supreme  Court  of  the  United  States  will  be 
uncontrollable  and  remediless."  This,  upon  ex- 
amination, will  be  found  to  be  made  up  altogether 
of  false  reasoning  upon  misconceived  fact. 

In  the  first  place,  there  is  not  a  syllable  in  the  plan 
under  consideration  which  directly  empowers  the  na- 
tional courts  to  construe  the  laws  according  to  the 
spirit  of  the  Constitution,  or  which  gives  them  any 
greater  latitude  in  this  respect  than  may  be  claimed 
by  the  courts  of  every  State.     I  admit,  however,  that 


The  Federalist  281 

the  Constitution  ought  to  be  the  standard  of  con- 
struction for  the  laws,  and  that  wherever  there  is  an 
evident  opposition,  the  laws  ought  to  give  place  to 
the  Constitution.  But  this  doctrine  is  not  deducible 
from  any  circumstance  peculiar  to  the  plan  of  the 
convention,  but  from  the  general  theory  of  a  limited 
Constitution;  and  as  far  as  it  is  true,  is  equally  ap- 
plicable to  most,  if  not  to  all  the  State  governments. 
There  can  be  no  objection,  therefore,  on  this  account, 
to  the  federal  judicature  which  will  not  lie  against  the 
local  judicatures  in  general,  and  which  will  not  serve 
to  condemn  every  constitution  that  attempts  to  set 
bounds  to  legislative  discretion. 

But  perhaps  the  force  of  the  objection  may  be 
thought  to  consist  in  the  particular  organization  of 
the  Supreme  Court;  in  its  being  composed  of  a  dis- 
tinct body  of  magistrates,  instead  of  being  one  of  the 
branches  of  the  legislature,  as  in  the  government  of 
Great  Britain  and  that  of  the  State.  To  insist  upon 
this  point,  the  authors  of  the  objection  m^ust  re- 
nounce the  meaning  they  have  labored  to  annex  to 
the  celebrated  maxim,  requiring  a  separation  of  the 
departments  of  power.  It  shall,  nevertheless,  be 
conceded  to  them,  agreeably  to  the  interpretation 
given  to  that  maxim  in  the  course  of  these  papers, 
that  it  is  not  violated  by  vesting  the  ultimate  power 
of  judging  in  a  part  of  the  legislative  body.  But 
though  this  be  not  an  absolute  violation  of  that  ex- 
cellent rule,  yet  it  verges  so  nearly  upon  it  as  on 
this  account  alone  to  be  less  eligible  than  the  mode 
preferred  by  the  convention.  From  a  body  which 
had  even  a  partial  agency  in  passing  bad  laws,  we 


282  Alexander  Hamilton 

could  rarely  expect  a  disposition  to  temper  and 
moderate  them  in  the  application.  The  same  spirit 
which  had  operated  in  making  them,  would  be  too 
apt  in  interpreting  them;  still  less  could  it  be  ex- 
pected that  men  who  had  infringed  the  Constitution 
in  the  character  of  legislators,  would  be  disposed  to 
repair  the  breach  in  the  character  of  judges.  Nor  is 
this  all.  Every  reason  which  recommends  the  ten- 
ure of  good  behavior  for  judicial  offices,  militates 
against  placing  the  judiciary  power,  in  the  last  resort, 
in  a  body  composed  of  men  chosen  for  a  limited  pe- 
riod. There  is  an  absurdity  in  referring  the  deter- 
mination of  causes,  in  the  first  instance,  to  judges  of 
permanent  standing;  in  the  last,  to  those  of  a  tem- 
porary and  mutable  constitution.  And  there  is  a 
still  greater  absurdity  in  subjecting  the  decisions  of 
men,  selected  for  their  knowledge  of  the  laws,  ac- 
quired by  long  and  laborious  study,  to  the  revision 
and  control  of  men  who,  for  want  of  the  same  ad- 
vantage, cannot  but  be  deficient  in  that  knowledge. 
The  members  of  the  legislature  will  rarely  be  chosen 
with  a  view  to  those  qualifications  which  fit  men  for 
the  stations  of  judges ;  and  as,  on  this  account,  there 
will  be  great  reason  to  apprehend  all  the  ill  conse- 
quences of  defective  information,  so,  on  account  of 
the  natural  propensity  of  such  bodies  to  party  divi- 
sions, there  will  be  no  less  reason  to  fear  that  the 
pestilential  breath  of  faction  may  poison  the  fount- 
ains of  justice.  The  habit  of  being  continually  mar- 
shalled on  opposite  sides  will  be  too  apt  to  stifle  the 
voice  both  of  law  and  of  equity. 

These  considerations  teach  us  to  applaud  the  wis- 


The  Federalist  283 

dom  of  those  States  who  have  committed  the  judicial 
power,  in  the  last  resort,  not  to  a  part  of  the  legisla- 
ture, but  to  distinct  and  independent  bodies  of  men. 
Contrary  to  the  supposition  of  those  who  have  re- 
presented the  plan  of  the  convention,  in  this  respect, 
as  novel  and  unprecedented,  it  is  but  a  copy  of 
the  constitutions  of  New  Hampshire,  Massachusetts, 
Pennsylvania,  Delaware,  Maryland,  Virginia,  North 
Carolina,  South  Carolina,  and  Georgia;  and  the 
preference  which  has  been  given  to  those  models  is 
highly  to  be  commended. 

It  is  not  true,  in  the  second  place,  that  the  Parlia- 
ment of  Great  Britain,  or  the  legislatures  of  the  par- 
ticular States,  can  rectify  the  exceptionable  decisions 
of  their  respective  courts,  in  any  other  sense  than 
might  be  done  by  a  future  legislature  of  the  United 
States.  The  theory,  neither  of  the  British,  nor  the 
State  constitutions,  authorizes  the  revisal  of  a  judi- 
cial sentence  by  a  legislative  act.  Nor  is  there  any 
thing  in  the  proposed  Constitution,  more  than  in 
either  of  them,  by  which  it  is  forbidden.  In  the 
former,  as  well  as  in  the  latter,  the  impropriety  of 
the  thing,  on  the  general  principles  of  law  and  reason, 
is  the  sole  obstacle.  A  legislature,  without  exceed- 
ing its  province,  cannot  reverse  a  determination  once 
made  in  a  particular  case;  though  it  may  prescribe 
a  new  rule  for  future  cases.  This  is  the  principle, 
and  it  applies  in  all  its  consequences,  exactly  in  the 
same  manner  and  extent,  to  the  State  governments, 
as  to  the  national  government  now  under  considera- 
tion. Not  the  least  difference  can  be  pointed  out  in 
any  view  of  the  subject. 


284  Alexander  Hamilton 

It  may  in  the  last  place  be  observed  that  the  sup- 
posed danger  of  judiciary  encroachments  on  the 
legislative  authority,  which  has  been  upon  many 
occasions  reiterated,  is  in  reality  a  phantom.  Par- 
ticular misconstructions  and  contraventions  of  the 
will  of  the  legislature  may  now  and  then  happen; 
but  they  can  never  be  so  extensive  as  to  amount  to 
an  inconvenience,  or  in  any  sensible  degree  to  affect 
the  order  of  the  political  system.  This  may  be  in- 
ferred with  certainty,  from  the  general  nature  of  the 
judicial  power,  from  the  objects  to  which  it  relates, 
from  the  manner  in  which  it  is  exercised,  from  its 
comparative  weakness,  and  from  its  total  incapacity 
to  support  its  usurpations  by  force.  And  the  infer- 
ence is  greatly  fortified  by  the  consideration  of  the 
important  constitutional  check  which  the  power  of 
instituting  impeachments  in  one  part  of  the  legis- 
lative body,  and  of  determining  upon  them  in  the 
other,  would  give  to  that  body  upon  the  members  of 
the  judicial  department.  This  is  alone  a  complete 
security.  There  never  can  be  danger  that  the  judges, 
by  a  series  of  deliberate  usurpations  on  the  authority 
of  the  legislature,  would  hazard  the  united  resent- 
ment of  the  body  intrusted  with  it,  while  this  body 
was  possessed  of  the  means  of  punishing  their  pre- 
sumption, by  degrading  them  from  their  stations. 
While  this  ought  to  remove  all  apprehensions  on  the 
subject,  it  affords,  at  the  same  time,  a  cogent  argu- 
ment for  constituting  the  Senate  a  court  for  the  trial 
of  impeachments. 

Having  now  examined,  and,  I  trust,  removed  the 
objections  to  the  distinct  and  independent  organiza- 


The  Federalist  285 

tion  of  the  Supreme  Court,  I  proceed  to  consider  the 
propriety  of  the  power  of  constituting  inferior  courts,' 
and  the  relations  which  will  subsist  between  these 
and  the  former. 

The  power  of  constituting  inferior  courts  is  evi- 
dently calculated  to  obviate  the  necessity  of  having 
recourse  to  the  Supreme  Court  in  every  case  of 
federal  cognizance.  It  is  intended  to  enable  the  na- 
tional government  to  institute  or  authorize,  in  each 
State  or  district  of  the  United  States,  a  tribunal  com- 
petent to  the  determination  of  matters  of  national 
jurisdiction  within  its  limits. 

But  why,  it  is  asked,  might  not  the  same  purpose 
have  been  accomplished  by  the  instrumentality  of 
the  State  courts?  This  admits  of  different  answers. 
Though  the  fitness  and  competency  of  those  courts 
should  be  allowed  in  the  utmost  latitude,  yet  the 
substance  of  the  power  in  question  may  still  be  re- 
garded as  a  necessary  part  of  the  plan,  f  it  were  only 
to  empower  the  national  legislature  to  commit  to 
them  the  cognizance  of  causes  arising  out  of  the 
national  Constitution.  To  confer  the  power  of  deter- 
mining such  causes  upon  the  existing  courts  of  the 
several  States,  would  perhaps  be  as  much  "  to  con- 
stitute tribunals,''  as  to  create  new  courts  with 
the  like  power.     But  ought  not  a  more  direct  and 

^  This  power  has  been  absurdly  represented  as  intended  to  abolish 
all  the  county  courts  in  the  several  States,  which  are  commonly  called 
inferior  courts.  But  the  expressions  of  the  Constitution  are,  to  con- 
stitute "tribunals  inferior  to  the  Supreme  Court";  and  the  evi- 
dent design  of  the  provision  is  to  enable  the  institution  of  local  courts, 
subordinate  to  the  Supreme,  either  in  States  or  larger  districts.  It  is 
ridiculous  to  imagine  that  county  courts  were  in  contemplation. — 

PUBLIUS. 


286  Alexander  Hamilton 

explicit  provision  to  have  been  made  in  favor  of  the 
State  courts  ?  There  are,  in  my  opinion,  substantial 
reasons  against  such  a  provision:  the  most  discern- 
ing cannot  foresee  how  far  the  prevalency  of  a  local 
spirit  may  be  found  to  disqualify  the  local  tribunals 
for  the  jurisdiction  of  national  causes;  whilst  every 
man  may  discover,  that  courts  constituted  like  those 
of  some  of  the  States  would  be  improper  channels  of 
the  judicial  authority  of  the  Union.  State  judges, 
holding  their  offices  during  pleasure,  or  from  year  to 
year,  will  be  too  little  independent  to  be  relied  upon 
for  an  inflexible  execution  of  the  national  laws.  And 
if  there  was  a  necessity  for  confiding  the  original 
cognizance  of  causes  arising  under  those  laws  to 
them,  there  would  be  a  correspondent  necessity  for 
leaving  the  door  of  appeal  as  wide  as  possible.  In 
proportion  to  the  grounds  of  confidence  in,  or  dis- 
trust of,  the  subordinate  tribunals,  ought  to  be  the 
facility  or  difficulty  of  appeals.  And  well  satisfied 
as  I  am  of  the  propriety  of  the  appellate  jurisdiction, 
in  the  several  classes  of  causes  to  which  it  is  extended 
by  the  plan  of  the  convention,  I  should  consider 
every  thing  calculated  to  give,  in  practice,  an  un- 
restrained course  to  appeals,  as  a  source  of  public 
and  private  inconven  ence. 

I  am  not  sure,  but  that  it  will  be  found  highly  ex- 
pedient and  useful,  to  divide  the  United  States  into 
four  or  five  or  half  a  dozen  districts ;  and  to  institute 
a  federal  court  in  each  district,  in  lieu  of  one  in  every 
State.  The  judges  of  these  courts,  with  the  aid  of  the 
State  judges,  may  hold  circuits  for  the  trial  of  causes 
in  the  several  parts  of  the  respective  districts.     Just- 


The  Federalist  287 

ice  through  them  may  be  administered  with  ease 
and  despatch;  and  appeals  may  be  safely  circum- 
scribed within  a  narrow  compass.  This  plan  appears 
to  me  at  present  the  most  eligible  of  any  that  could 
be  adopted;  and  in  order  to  it,  it  is  necessary  that 
the  power  of  constituting  inferior  courts  should  exist 
in  the  full  extent  in  which  it  is  to  be  found  in  the 
proposed  Constitution. 

These  reasons  seem  sufficient  to  satisfy  a  candid 
mind,  that  the  want  of  such  a  power  would  have  been 
a  great  defect  in  the  plan.  Let  us  now  examine  in 
what  manner  the  judicial  authority  is  to  be  distrib- 
uted between  the  supreme  and  the  inferior  courts 
of  the  Union. 

The  Supreme  Court  is  to  be  invested  with  original 
jurisdiction,  only  '*in  cases  affecting  ambassadors, 
other  public  ministers,  and  consuls,  and  those  in 
which  A  State  shall  be  a  party."  Public  ministers 
of  every  class  are  the  immediate  representatives  of 
their  sovereigns.  All  questions  in  which  they  are 
concerned  are  so  directly  connected  with  the  public 
peace,  that,  as  well  for  the  preservation  of  this,  as 
out  of  respect  to  the  sovereignties  they  represent,  it 
is  both  expedient  and  proper  that  such  questions 
should  be  submitted  in  the  first  instance  to  the  high- 
est judicatory  of  the  nation.  Though  consuls  have 
not  in  strictness  a  diplomatic  character,  yet  as  they 
are  the  public  agents  of  the  nations  to  which  they 
belong,  the  same  observation  is  in  a  great  measure 
applicable  to  them.  In  cases  in  which  a  State  might 
happen  to  be  a  party,  it  would  ill  suit  its  dignity  to 
be  turned  over  to  an  inferior  tribunal. 


288  Alexander  Hamilton 

Though  it  may  rather  be  a  digression  from  the 
immediate  subject  of  this  paper,  I  shall  take  occa- 
sion to  mention  here  a  supposition  which  has  ex- 
cited some  alarm  upon  very  mistaken  groimds.  It 
has  been  suggested  that  an  assignment  of  the  public 
securities  of  one  State  to  the  citizens  of  another, 
would  enable  them  to  prosecute  that  State  in  the 
federal  courts  for  the  amount  of  those  securities;  a 
suggestion  which  the  following  considerations  prove 
to  be  without  foimdation. 

It  is  inherent  in  the  nature  of  sovereignty  not  to 
be  amenable  to  the  suit  of  an  individual  without  its 
consent.  This  is  the  general  sense,  and  the  general 
practice  of  mankind;  and  the  exemption,  as  one  of 
the  attributes  of  sovereignty,  is  now  enjoyed  by  the 
government  of  every  State  in  the  Union.  Unless, 
therefore,  there  is  a  surrender  of  this  immunity  in 
the  plan  of  the  convention,  it  will  remain  with  the 
States,  and  the  danger  intimated  must  be  merely 
ideal.  The  circumstances  which  are  necessary  to 
produce  an  alienation  of  State  sovereignty  were  dis- 
cussed in  considering  the  article  of  taxation,  and 
need  not  be  repeated  here.  A  recurrence  to  the 
principles  there  established  will  satisfy  us,  that  there 
is  no  color  to  pretend  that  the  State  governments 
would,  by  the  adoption  of  that  plan,  be  divested  of 
the  privilege  of  paying  their  own  debts  in  their  own 
way,  free  from  every  constraint  but  that  which  flows 
from  the  obligations  of  good  faith.  The  contracts 
between  a  nation  and  individuals  are  only  bind- 
ing on  the  conscience  of  the  sovereign,  and  have  no 
pretensions  to  a  compulsive  force.     They  confer  no 


The  Federalist  289 

right  of  action,  independent  of  the  sovereign  will. 
To  what  purpose  would  it  be  to  authorize  suits 
against  States  for  the  debts  they  owe?  How  could 
recoveries  be  enforced?  It  is  evident,  it  could  not 
be  done  without  waging  war  against  the  contracting 
State ;  and  to  ascribe  to  the  federal  courts,  by  mere 
implication,  and.  in  destruction  of  a  preexisting  right 
of  the  State  governments,  a  power  which  would  in- 
volve such  a  consequence,  would  be  altogether  forced 
and  unwarrantable. 

Let  us  resume  the  train  of  our  observations.  We 
have  seen  that  the  original  jurisdiction  of  the  Su- 
preme Court  would  be  confined  to  two  classes  of 
causes,  and  those  of  a  nature  rarely  to  occur.  In  all 
other  cases  of  federal  cognizance,  the  original  juris- 
diction would  appertain  to  the  inferior  tribunals; 
and  the  Supreme  Court  would  have  nothing  more 
than  an  appellate  jurisdiction,  '*  with  such  exceptions 
and  under  such  regulations  as  the  Congress  shall 
make." 

The  propriety  of  this  appellate  jurisdiction  has 
been  scarcely  called  in  question  in  regard  to  matters 
of  law;  but  the  clamors  have  been  loud  against  it 
as  applied  to  matters  of  fact.  Some  well-intentioned 
men  in  this  State,  deriving  their  notions  from  the 
language  and  forms  which  obtain  in  our  courts,  have 
been  induced  to  consider  it  as  an  implied  super- 
sedure  of  the  trial  by  jury,  in  favor  of  the  civil-law 
mode  of  trial,  which  prevails  in  our  courts  of  ad- 
miralty, probate,  and  chancery.  A  technical  sense 
has  been  affixed  to  the  term  ''appellate,"  which,  in 
our  law  parlance,  is  commonly  used  in  reference  to 

VOL.  XII.— 19. 


290  Alexander  Hamilton 

appeals  in  the  course  of  the  civil  law.  But  if  I  am 
not  misinformed,  the  same  meaning  would  not  be 
given  to  it  in  any  part  of  New  England.  There  an 
appeal  from  one  jury  to  another,  is  familiar  both  in 
language  and  practice,  and  is  even  a  matter  of  course, 
until  there  have  been  two  verdicts  on  one  side.  The 
word  ''appellate,"  therefore,  will  not  be  understood 
in  the  same  sense  in  New  England  as  in  New  York, 
which  shows  the  impropriety  of  a  technical  interpre- 
tation derived  from  the  jurisprudence  of  any  par- 
ticular State.  The  expression,  taken  in  the  abstract, 
denotes  nothing  more  than  the  power  of  one  tribunal 
to  review  the  proceedings  of  another,  either  as  to  the 
law  or  fact,  or  both.  The  mode  of  doing  it  may  de- 
pend on  ancient  custom  or  legislative  provision  (in 
a  new  government  it  must  depend  on  the  latter), 
and  may  be  with  or  without  the  aid  of  a  jury,  as  may 
be  judged  advisable.  If,  therefore,  the  reexamina- 
tion of  a  fact  once  determined  by  a  jury,  should  in 
any  case  be  admitted  under  the  proposed  Constitu- 
tion, it  may  be  so  regulated  as  to  be  done  by  a  second 
jury,  either  by  remanding  the  cause  to  the  court 
below  for  a  second  trial  of  the  fact,  or  by  directing 
an  issue  immediately  out  of  the  Supreme  Court. 

But  it  does  not  follow  that  the  reexamination  of 
a  fact  once  ascertained  by  a  jury,  will  be  permitted 
in  the  Supreme  Court.  Why  may  it  not  be  said, 
with  the  strictest  propriety,  when  a  writ  of  error  is 
brought  from  an  inferior  to  a  superior  court  of  law 
in  this  State,  that  the  latter  has  jurisdiction  of  the 
fact  as  well  as  the  law?  It  is  true  it  cannot  institute 
a  new  inquiry  concerning  the  fact,  but  it  takes  cog- 


The  Federalist  291 

nizance  of  it  as  it  appears  upon  the  record,  and  pro- 
nounces the  law  arising  upon  it."  This  is  jurisdiction 
of  both  fact  and  law ;  nor  is  it  even  possible  to  sepa- 
rate them.  Though  the  common-law  courts  of  this 
State  ascertain  disputed  facts  by  a  jury,  yet  they 
unquestionably  have  jurisdiction  of  both  fact  and 
law;  and  accordingly  when  the  former  is  agreed  in 
the  pleadings,  they  have  no  recourse  to  a  jury,  but 
proceed  at  once  to  judgment.  I  contend,  therefore, 
on  this  ground,  that  the  expressions,  ''appellate 
jurisdiction,  both  as  to  law  and  fact,''  do  not  neces- 
sarily imply  a  reexamination  in  the  Supreme  Court 
of  facts  decided  by  juries  in  the  inferior  courts. 

The  following  train  of  ideas  may  well  be  imagined 
to  have  influenced  the  convention,  in  relation  to  this 
particular  provision.  The  appellate  jurisdiction  of 
the  Supreme  Court  (it  may  have  been  argued)  will 
extend  to  causes  determinable  in  different  modes, 
some  in  the  course  of  the  common  law,  others  in  the 
course  of  the  civil  law.  In  the  former,  the  revision 
of  the  law  only  will  be,  generally  speaking,  the  proper 
province  of  the  Supreme  Court;  in  the  latter,  the 
reexamination  of  the  fact  is  agreeable  to  usage,  and 
in  some  cases,  of  which  prize  causes  are  an  example, 
might  be  essential  to  the  preservation  of  the  public 
peace.  It  is  therefore  necessary  that  the  appellate 
jurisdiction  should,  in  certain  cases,  extend  in  the 
broadest  sense  to  matters  of  fact.  It  will  not  an- 
swer to  make  an  express  exception  of  cases  which 
shall  have  been  originally  tried  by  a  jury,  because 

'  This  word  is  composed  of  jus  and  dictio,  juris  dictio^  or  a  speaking 
and  pronouncing  of  the  law. — Publius. 


292  Alexander  Hamilton 

in  the  courts  of  some  of  the  States  all  causes  are  tried 
in  this  mode  ' ;  and  such  an  exception  would  pre- 
clude the  revision  of  matters  of  fact,  as  well  where  it 
might  be  proper,  as  where  it  might  be  improper.  To 
avoid  all  inconveniences,  it  will  be  safest  to  declare 
generally,  that  the  Supreme  Court  shall  possess  ap- 
pellate jurisdiction  both  as  to  law  and  fact,  and  that 
this  jurisdiction  shall  be  subject  to  such  exceptions 
and  regulations  as  the  national  legislature  may  pre- 
scribe. This  will  enable  the  government  to  modify 
it  in  such  a  manner  as  will  best  answer  the  ends 
of  public  justice  and  security. 

This  view  of  the  matter,  at  any  rate,  puts  it  out  of 
all  doubt  that  the  supposed  abolition  of  the  trial  by 
jury,  by  the  operation  of  this  provision,  is  fallacious 
and  untrue.  The  legislature  of  the  United  States 
would  certainly  have  full  power  to  provide,  that  in 
appeals  to  the  Supreme  Court  there  should  be  no  re- 
examination of  facts  where  they  had  been  tried  in 
the  original  causes  by  juries.  This  would  certainly 
be  an  authorized  exception;  but  if,  for  the  reason 
already  intimated,  it  should  be  thought  too  exten- 
sive, it  might  be  qualified  with  a  limitation  to  such 
causes  only  as  are  determinable  at  common  law  in 
that  mode  of  trial. 

The  amount  of  the  observations  hitherto  made 
on  the  authority  of  the  judicial  department  is  this: 
that  it  has  been  carefully  restricted  to  those  causes 
which  are  manifestly  proper  for  the  cognizance  of 

^  I  hold  that  the  States  will  have  concurrent  jurisdiction  with  the 
subordinate  federal  judicatories,  in  many  cases  of  federal  cognizance, 
as  will  be  explained  in  my  next  paper. — Publius. 


The  Federalist  293 

the  national  judicature ;  that  in  the  partition  of  this 
authority  a  very  small  portion  of  original  jurisdiction 
has  been  preserved  to  the  Supreme  Court,  and  the 
rest  consigned  to  the  subordinate  tribunals ;  that  the 
Supreme  Court  will  possess  an  appellate  jurisdiction, 
both  as  to  law  and  fact,  in  all  the  cases  referred  to 
them,  both  subject  to  any  exceptions  and  regulations 
which  may  be  thought  advisable ;  that  this  appellate 
jurisdiction  does,  in  no  case,  abolish  the  trial  by  jury ; 
and  that  an  ordinary  degree  of  prudence  and  integ- 
rity in  the  national  councils  will  insure  us  solid  ad- 
vantages from  the  establishment  of  the  proposed 
judiciary,  without  exposing  us  to  any  of  the  incon- 
veniences which  have  been  predicted  from  that 
source. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  McLean's  Edition,  New  York,  M.DCC.LXXXVIII 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXXXII 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

The  erection  of  a  new  government,  whatever  care 
or  wisdom  may  distinguish  the  work,  cannot  fail  to 
originate  questions  of  intricacy  and  nicety;  and 
these  may,  in  a  particular  manner,  be  expected  to 
flow  from  the  establishment  of  a  constitution  founded 
upon  the  total  or  partial  incorporation  of  a  number 
of  distinct  sovereignties.  'T  is  time  only  that  can 
mature  and  perfect  so  compound  a  system,  can 
liquidate  the  meaning  of  all  the  parts,  and  can  ad- 
just them  to  each  other  in  a  harmonious  and  con- 
sistent  WHOLE. 


294  Alexander  Hamilton 

Such  questions,  accordingly,  have  arisen  upon  the 
plan  proposed  by  the  convention,  and  particularly 
concerning  the  judiciary  department.  The  prin- 
cipal of  these  respect  the  situation  of  the  State  courts 
in  regard  to  those  causes  which  are  to  be  submitted  to 
federal  jurisdiction.  Is  this  to  be  exclusive,  or  are 
those  courts  to  possess  a  concurrent  jurisdiction  ?  If 
the  latter,  in  what  relation  will  they  stand  to  the 
national  tribunals  ?  These  are  inquiries  which  we 
meet  with  in  the  mouths  of  men  of  sense,  and  which 
are  certainly  entitled  to  attention. 

The  principles  established  in  a  former  paper ' 
teach  us  that  the  States  will  retain  all  preexisting 
authorities  which  may  not  be  exclusively  delegated 
to  the  federal  head;  and  that  this  exclusive  delega- 
tion can  only  exist  in  one  of  three  cases:  where  an 
exclusive  authority  is,  in  express  terms,  granted  to 
the  Union ;  or  where  a  particular  authority  is  granted 
to  the  Union,  and  the  exercise  of  a  like  authority  is 
prohibited  to  the  States;  or  where  an  authority  is 
granted  to  the  Union,  with  which  a  similar  authority 
in  the  States  would  be  utterly  incompatible.  Though 
these  principles  may  not  apply  with  the  same  force 
to  the  judiciary  as  to  the  legislative  power,  yet  I  am 
inclined  to  think  that  they  are,  in  the  main,  just  with 
respect  to  the  former,  as  well  as  the  latter.  And 
under  this  impression,  I  shall  lay  it  down  as  a  rule, 
that  the  State  courts  will  retain  the  jurisdiction  they 
now  have,  unless  it  appears  to  be  taken  away  in  one 
of  the  enumerated  modes. 

The  only  thing  in  the  poposed  Constitution,  which 

«  No.  XXXI.— PUBLIUS. 


The  Federalist  295 

wears  the  appearance  of  confining  the  causes  of 
federal  cognizance  to  the  federal  courts,  is  contained 
in  this  passage: — ''The  judicial  power  of  the 
United  States  shall  be  vested  in  one  Supreme  Court, 
and  in  such  inferior  courts  as  the  Congress  shall  from 
time  to  time  ordain  and  establish.'*  This  might 
either  be  construed  to  signify,  that  the  supreme  and 
subordinate  courts  of  the  Union  should  alone  have 
the  power  of  deciding  those  causes  to  which  their 
authority  is  to  extend;  or  simply  to  denote,  that 
the  organs  of  the  national  judiciary  should  be  one 
Supreme  Court,  and  as  many  subordinate  courts 
as  Congress  should  think  proper  to  appoint;  or  in 
other  words,  that  the  United  States  should  exercise 
the  judicial  power  with  which  they  are  to  be  in- 
vested, through  one  supreme  tribunal,  and  a  certain 
number  of  inferior  ones,  to  be  instituted  by  them. 
The  first  excludes,  the  last  admits,  the  concurrent 
jurisdiction  of  the  State  tribunals;  and  as  the  first 
would  amount  to  an  alienation  of  State  power  by 
implication,  the  last  appears  to  me  the  most  natural 
and  the  most  defensible  construction. 

But  this  doctrine  of  concurrent  jurisdiction  is  only 
clearly  applicable  to  those  descriptions  of  causes  of 
which  the  State  courts  have  previous  cognizance. 
It  is  not  equally  evident  in  relation  to  cases  which 
may  grow  out  of,  and  be  peculiar  to,  the  Constitution 
to  be  established ;  for  not  to  allow  the  State  courts  a 
right  of  jurisdiction  in  such  cases,  can  hardly  be 
considered  as  the  abridgement  of  a  preexisting  au- 
thority. I  mean  not  therefore  to  contend  that  the 
United  States,  in  the  course  of  legislation  upon  the 


296  Alexander  Hamilton 

objects  intrusted  to  their  direction,  may  not  commit 
the  decision  of  causes  arising  upon  a  particular  regu- 
lation to  the  federal  courts  solely,  if  such  a  measure 
should  be  deemed  expedient;  but  I  hold  that  the 
State  courts  will  be  divested  of  no  part  of  their 
primitive  jurisdiction,  further  than  may  relate  to  an 
appeal ;  and  I  am  even  of  opinion  that  in  every  case 
in  which  they  were  not  expressly  excluded  by  the 
future  acts  of  the  national  legislature,  they  will  of 
course  take  cognizance  of  the  causes  to  which  those 
acts  may  give  birth.  This  I  infer  from  the  nature 
of  judiciary  power,  and  from  the  general  genius  of 
the  system.  The  judiciary  power  of  every  govern- 
ment looks  beyond  its  own  local  or  municipal  laws, 
and  in  civil  cases  lays  hold  of  all  subjects  of  litiga- 
tion between  parties  within  its  jurisdiction,  though 
the  causes  of  dispute  are  relative  to  the  laws  of  the 
most  distant  part  of  the  globe.  Those  of  Japan,  not 
less  than  of  New  York,  may  furnish  the  objects  of 
legal  discussion  to  our  courts.  When  in  addition  to 
this  we  consider  the  State  governments  and  the  na- 
tional governments,  as  they  truly  are,  in  the  light  of 
kindred  systems,  and  as  parts  of  one  whole,  the  in- 
ference seems  to  be  conclusive,  that  the  State  courts 
would  have  a  concurrent  jurisdiction  in  all  cases 
arising  under  the  laws  of  the  Union,  where  it  was  not 
expressly  prohibited. 

Here  another  question  occurs:  What  relation 
would  subsist  between  the  national  and  State  courts 
in  these  instances  of  concurrent  jurisdiction?  I 
answer,  that  an  appeal  would  certainly  lie  from  the 
latter,  to  the  Supreme  Court  of  the  United  States. 


The  Federalist  297 

The  Constitution  in  direct  terms  gives  an  appellate 
jurisdiction  to  the  Supreme  Court  in  all  the  enu- 
merated cases  of  federal  cognizance  in  which  it  is 
not  to  have  an  original  one,  without  a  single  expres- 
sion to  confine  its  operation  to  the  inferior  federal 
courts.  The  objects  of  appeal,  not  the  tribunals 
from  which  it  is  to  be  made,  are  alone  contemplated. 
From  this  circumstance,  and  from  the  reason  of  the 
thing,  it  ought  to  be  construed  to  extend  to  the 
State  tribunals.  Either  this  must  be  the  case,  or 
the  local  courts  must  be  excluded  from  a  concurrent 
jurisdiction  in  matters  of  national  concern,  else  the 
judiciary  authority  of  the  Union  may  be  eluded  at 
the  pleasure  of  every  plaintiff  or  prosecutor.  Neither 
of  these  consequences  ought,  without  evident  neces- 
sity, to  be  involved;  the  latter  would  be  entirely 
inadmissible,  as  it  would  defeat  some  of  the  most 
important  and  avowed  purposes  of  the  proposed  gov- 
ernment, and  would  essentially  embarrass  its  meas- 
ures. Nor  do  I  perceive  any  foundation  for  such  a 
supposition.  Agreeably  to  the  remark  already  made, 
the  national  and  State  systems  are  to  be  regarded  as 
ONE  WHOLE.  The  courts  of  the  latter  will  of  course 
be  natural  auxiliaries  to  the  execution  of  the  laws 
of  the  Union,  and  an  appeal  from  them  will  as  nat- 
urally lie  to  that  tribunal  which  is  destined  to  unite 
and  assimilate  the  principles  of  national  justice  and 
the  rules  of  national  decisions.  The  evident  aim  of  the 
plan  of  the  convention  is,  that  all  the  causes  of  the 
specified  classes  shall,  for  weighty  public  reasons, 
receive  their  original  or  final  determination  in  the 
courts  of  the   Union.     To   confine,   therefore,   the 


298  Alexander  Hamilton 

general  expressions  giving  appellate  jurisdiction  to 
the  Supreme  Court,  to  appeals  from  the  subordinate 
federal  courts,  instead  of  allowing  their  extension  to 
the  State  courts,  would  be  to  abridge  the  latitude  of 
the  terms,  in  subversion  of  the  intent,  contrary  to 
every  sound  rule  of  interpretation. 

But  could  an  appeal  be  made  to  lie  from  the  State 
courts  to  the  subordinate  federal  judicatories  ?  This 
is  another  of  the  questions  which  have  been  raised, 
and  of  greater  difficulty  than  the  former.  The  fol- 
lowing considerations  countenance  the  affirmative. 
The  plan  of  the  convention,  in  the  first  place, 
authorizes  the  national  legislature  **  to  constitute 
tribunals  inferior  to  the  Supreme  Court."  '  It  de- 
clares, in  the  next  place,  that  "the  judicial  power 
of  the  United  States  shall  be  vested  in  one  Supreme 
Court,  and  in  such  inferior  courts  as  Congress  shall 
ordain  and  establish ' ' ;  and  it  then  proceeds  to  enu- 
merate the  cases  to  which  this  judicial  power  shall 
extend.  It  afterwards  divides  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Supreme  Court  into  original  and  appellate,  but  gives 
no  definition  of  that  of  the  subordinate  courts.  The 
only  outlines  described  for  them,  are  that  they  shall 
be  "inferior  to  the  Supreme  Court,"  and  that  they 
shall  not  exceed  the  specified  limits  of  the  federal 
judiciary.  Whether  their  authority  shall  be  origi- 
nal or  appellate,  or  both,  is  not  declared.  All  this 
seems  to  be  left  to  the  discretion  of  the  legislature. 
And  this  being  the  case,  I  perceive  at  present  no 
impediment  to  the  establishment  of  an  appeal  from 
the  State  courts  to  the  subordinate  national  tribu- 

^  Sec.  8th,  art.  ist. — Publius. 


The  Federalist  299 

nals;  and  many  advantages  attending  the  power  of 
doing  it  may  be  imagined.  It  would  diminish  the 
motives  to  the  multipHcation  of  federal  courts,  and 
would  admit  of  arrangements  calculated  to  contract 
the  appellate  jurisdiction  of  the  Supreme  Court. 
The  State  tribunals  may  then  be  left  with  a  more 
entire  charge  of  federal  causes;  and  appeals,  in  most 
cases  in  which  they  may  be  deemed  proper,  instead 
of  being  carried  to  the  Supreme  Court,  may  be  made 
to  lie  from  the  State  courts  to  district  courts  of  the 
Union. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  McLean's  Edition,  New  York,  M.DCC.LXXXVIII 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXXXIII 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

The  objection  to  the  plan  of  the  convention,  which 
has  met  with  most  success  in  this  State,  and  perhaps 
in  several  of  the  other  States,  is  that  relative  to  the 
want  of  a  constitutional  provision  for  the  trial  by  jury 
in  civil  cases.  The  disingenuous  form  in  which  this 
objection  is  usually  stated  has  been  repeatedly  ad- 
verted to  and  exposed,  but  continues  to  be  pursued 
in  all  the  conversations  and.  writings  of  the  oppo- 
nents of  the  plan.  The  mere  silence  of  the  Constitu- 
tion in  regard  to  civil  causes,  is  represented  as  an 
abolition  of  the  trial  by  jury,  and  the  declamations 
to  which  it  has  afforded  a  pretext  are  artfully  cal- 
culated to  induce  a  persuasion  that  this  pretended 
abolition  is  complete  and  universal,  extending  not 


300  Alexander  Hamilton 

only  to  every  species  of  civil,  but  even  to  criminal^ 
causes.  To  argue  with  respect  to  the  latter  would, 
however,  be  as  vain  and  fruitless  as  to  attempt  the 
serious  proof  of  the  existence  of  matter,  or  to  demon- 
strate any  of  those  propositions  which,  by  their  own 
internal  evidence,  force  conviction,  when  expressed 
in  language  adapted  to  convey  their  meaning. 

With  regard  to  civil  causes,  subtleties  almost  too 
contemptible  for  refutation  have  been  employed  to 
countenance  the  surmise  that  a  thing  which  is  only 
not  provided  for,  is  entirely  abolished.  Every  man 
of  discernment  must  at  once  perceive  the  wide  dif- 
ference between  silence  and  abolition.  But  as  the 
inventors  of  this  fallacy  have  attempted  to  support 
it  by  certain  legal  maxims  of  interpretation,  which 
they  have  pre  verted  from  their  true  meaning,  it  may 
not  be  wholly  useless  to  explore  the  ground  they 
have  taken. 

The  maxims  on  which  they  rely  are  of  this  nature: 
"A  specification  of  particulars  is  an  exclusion  of 
generals";  or,  ''The  expression  of  one  thing  is  the 
exclusion  of  another. "  Hence,  say  they,  as  the  Con- 
stitution has  established  the  trial  by  jury  in  criminal 
cases,  and  is  silent  in  respect  to  civil,  this  silence  is 
an  implied  prohibition  of  trial  by  jury  in  regard  to 
the  latter. 

The  rules  of  legal  interpretation  are  rules  of  com- 
mon-sense, adopted  by  the  courts  in  the  construction 
of  the  laws.  The  true  test,  therefore,  of  a  just  ap- 
plication of  them  is  its  conformity  to  the  source  from 
which  they  are  derived.  This  being  the  case,  let  me 
ask  if  it  is  consistent  with  common-sense  to  suppose 


The  Federalist  301 

that  a  provision  obHging  the  legislative  power  to 
commit  the  trial  of  criminal  causes  to  juries,  is  a 
privation  of  its  right  to  authorize  or  permit  that 
mode  of  trial  in  other  cases  ?  Is  it  natural  to  suppose, 
that  a  command  to  do  one  thing  is  a  prohibition  to 
the  doing  of  another,  which  there  was  a  previous 
power  to  do,  and  which  is  not  incompatible  with  the 
thing  commanded  to  be  done?  If  such  a  supposi- 
tion would  be  unnatural  and  unreasonable,  it  cannot 
be  rational  to  maintain  that  an  injunction  of  the 
trial  by  jury  in  certain  cases  is  an  interdiction  of  it 
in  others. 

A  power  to  constitute  courts  is  a  power  to  pre- 
scribe the  mode  of  trial;  and  consequently,  if  no- 
thing was  said  in  the  Constitution  on  the  subject  of 
juries,  the  legislature  would  be  at  liberty  either  to 
adopt  that  institution  or  to  let  it  alone.  This  dis- 
cretion, in  regard  to  criminal  causes,  is  abridged  by 
the  express  injunction  of  trial  by  jury  in  all  such 
cases ;  but  it  is,  of  course,  left  at  large  in  relation  to 
civil  causes,  there  being  a  total  silence  on  this  head. 
The  specification  of  an  obligation  to  try  all  criminal 
causes  in  a  particular  mode,  excludes  indeed  the 
obligation  or  necessity  of  employing  the  same  mode 
in  civil  causes,  but  does  not  abridge  the  power  of  the 
legislature  to  exercise  that  mode  if  it  should  be 
thought  proper.  The  pretence,  therefore,  that  the 
national  legislature  would  not  be  at  full  liberty  to 
submit  all  the  civil  causes  of  federal  cognizance  to 
the  determination  of  juries,  is  a  pretence  destitute 
of  all  just  foundation. 

From  these  observations  this  conculsion  results: 


302  Alexander  Hamilton 

that  the  trial  by  jury  in  civil  cases  would  not  be 
abolished;  and  that  the  use  attempted  to  be  made 
of  the  maxims  which  have  been  quoted,  is  contrary 
to  reason  and  common-sense,  and  therefore  not  ad- 
missible. Even  if  these  maxims  had  a  precise  tech- 
nical sense,  corresponding  with  the  idea  of  those  who 
employ  them  upon  the  present  occasion,  which,  how- 
ever, is  not  the  case,  they  would  still  be  inapplicable 
to  a  constitution  of  government.  In  relation  to 
such  a  subject,  the  natural  and  obvious  sense  of  its 
provisions,  apart  from  any  technical  rules,  is  the 
true  criterion  of  construction. 

Having  now  seen  that  the  maxims  relied  upon  will 
not  bear  the  use  made  of  them,  let  us  endeavor  to 
ascertain  their  proper  use  and  true  meaning.  This 
will  be  best  done  by  examples.  The  plan  of  the 
convention  declares  that  the  power  of  Congress,  or, 
in  other  words,  of  the  national  legislature,  shall  ex- 
tend to  certain  enumerated  cases.  This  specifica- 
tion of  particulars  evidently  excludes  all  pretension 
to  a  general  legislative  authority,  because  an  affirma- 
tive grant  of  special  powers  would  be  absurd,  as  well 
as  useless,  if  a  general  authority  was  intended. 

In  like  manner  the  judicial  authority  of  the  fed- 
eral judicatures  is  declared  by  the  Constitution  to 
comprehend  certain  cases  particularly  specified.  The 
expression  of  those  cases  marks  the  precise  limits, 
beyond  which  the  federal  courts  cannot  extend  their 
jurisdiction,  because  the  objects  of  their  cognizance 
being  enumerated,  the  specification  would  be  nuga- 
tory if  it  did  not  exclude  all  ideas  of  more  exten- 
sive authority. 


The  Federalist  303 

These  examples  are  sufficient  to  elucidate  the 
maxims  which  have  been  mentioned,  and  to  desig- 
nate the  manner  in  which  they  should  be  used. 
[But  that  there  may  be  no  misapprehension  upon 
this  subject,!  shall  add  one  case  more,  to  demonstrate 
the  proper  use  of  these  maxims,  and  the  abuse  which 
has  been  made  of  them.]' 

Let  us  suppose  that  by  the  laws  of  this  State  a 
married  woman  was  incapable  of  conveying  her  es- 
tate, and  that  the  legislature,  considering  this  as  an 
evil,  should  enact  that  she  might  dispose  of  her  prop- 
erty by  deed  executed  in  the  presence  of  a  magis- 
trate. In  such  a  case  there  can  be  no  doubt  but  the 
specification  would  amount  to  an  exclusion  of  any 
other  mode  of  conveyance,  because  the  woman  hav- 
ing no  previous  power  to  alienate  her  property,  the 
specification  determines  the  particular  mode  which 
she  is,  for  that  purpose,  to  avail  herself  of.  But  let 
us  further  suppose  that  in  a  subsequent  part  of  the 
same  act  it  should  be  declared  that  no  woman  should 
dispose  of  any  estate  of  a  determinate  value  without 
the  consent  of  three  of  her  nearest  relations,  signified 
by  their  signing  the  deed ;  could  it  be  inferred  from 
this  regulation  that  a  married  woman  might  not 
procure  the  approbation  of  her  relations  to  a  deed 
for  conveying  property  of  inferior  value?  The  posi- 
tion is  too  absurd  to  merit  a  refutation,  and  yet  this 
is  precisely  the  position  which  those  must  establish 
who  contend  that  the  trial  by  juries  in  civil  cases  is 
abolished,  because  it  is  expressly  provided  for  in 
cases  of  a  criminal  nature. 

'  This  sentence  in  brackets  is  omitted  in  the  revised  text 


304  Alexander  Hamilton 

From  these  observations  it  must  appear  imques- 
tionably  true,  that  trial  by  jury  is  in  no  case  abol- 
ished by  the  proposed  Constitution,  and  it  is  equally 
true,  that  in  those  controversies  between  individuals 
in  which  the  great  body  of  the  people  are  likely  to  be 
interested,  that  institution  will  remain  precisely  in 
the  same  situation  in  which  it  is  placed  by  the  State 
constitutions,  [and  will  be  in  no  degree  altered  or 
influenced  by  the  adoption  of  the  plan  under  con- 
sideration]. '  The  foundation  of  this  assertion  is, 
that  the  national  judiciary  will  have  no  cognizance 
of  them,  and  of  course  they  will  remain  determinable 
as  heretofore  by  the  State  courts  only,  and  in  the 
manner  which  the  State  constitutions  and  laws  pre- 
scribe. All  land  causes,  except  where  claims  under 
the  grants  of  different  States  come  into  question,  and 
all  other  controversies  between  the  citizens  of  the 
same  State,  unless  where  they  depend  upon  positive 
violations  of  the  articles  of  union,  by  acts  of  the  State 
legislatures,  will  belong  exclusively  to  the  jurisdic- 
tion of  the  State  tribunals.  Add  to  this,  that  ad- 
miralty causes,  and  almost  all  those  which  are  of 
equity  jurisdiction,  are  determinable  under  our  own 
government  without  the  intervention  of  a  jury,  and 
the  inference  from  the  whole  will  be,  that  this  institu- 
tion, as  it  exists  with  us  at  present,  cannot  possibly 
be  affected  to  any  great  extent  by  the  proposed  al- 
teration in  our  system  of  government. 

The  friends  and  adversaries  of  the  plan  of  the  con- 
vention, if  they  agree  in  nothing  else,  concur  at  least 
in  the  value  they  set  upon  the  trial  by  jury;   or  if 

'  This  sentence  in  brackets  is  omitted  in  the  revised  text. 


The  Federalist  305 

there  is  any  difference  between  them  it  consists  in 
this :  the  former  regard  it  as  a  valuable  safeguard  to 
liberty ;  the  latter  represent  it  as  the  very  palladium 
of  free  government.  For  my  own  part,  the  more  the 
operation  of  the  institution  has  fallen  under  my  ob- 
servation, the  more  reason  I  have  discovered  for 
holding  it  in  high  estimation ;  and  it  would  be  alto- 
gether superfluous  to  examine  to  what  extent  it 
deserves  to  be  esteemed  useful  or  essential  in  a  re- 
presentative republic,  or  how  much  more  merit  it  may 
be  entitled  to,  as  a  defence  against  the  oppressions 
of  an  hereditary  monarch,  than  as  a  barrier  to  the 
tyranny  of  popular  magistrates  in  a  popular  govern- 
ment. Discussions  of  this  kind  would  be  more  curi- 
ous than  beneficial,  as  all  are  satisfied  of  the  utility 
of  the  institution,  and  of  its  friendly  aspect  to  lib- 
erty. But  I  must  acknowledge  that  I  cannot  readily 
discern  the  inseparable  connection  between  the 
existence  of  liberty,  and  the  trial  by  jury  in  civil 
cases.  Arbitrary  impeachments,  arbitrary  methods 
of  prosecuting  pretended  offences,  and  arbitrary 
punishments  upon  arbitrary  convictions,  have  ever 
appeared  to  me  to  be  the  great  engines  of  judicial 
despotism;  and  these  have  all  relation  to  criminal 
proceedings.  The  trial  by  jury  in  criminal  cases, 
aided  by  the  habeas-corpus  act,  seems  therefore  to  be 
alone  concerned  in  the  question.  And  both  of  these 
are  provided  for,  in  the  most  ample  manner,  in  the 
plan  of  the  convention. 

It  has  been  observed,  that  trial  by  jury  is  a  safe- 
guard against  an  oppressive  exercise  of  the  power  of 
taxation.    This  observation  deserves  to  be  canvassed. 


VOL.  XII. — ao. 


3o6  Alexander  Hamilton 

It  is  evident  that  it  can  have  no  influence  upon 
the  legislature,  in  regard  to  the  amount  of  taxes  to  be 
laid,  to  the  objects  upon  which  they  are  to  be  im- 
posed, or  to  the  rule  by  which  they  are  to  be  appor- 
tioned. If  it  can  have  any  influence,  therefore,  it 
must  be  upon  the  mode  of  collection,  and  the  con- 
duct of  the  ofificers  entrusted  with  the  execution  of 
the  revenue  laws. 

As  to  the  mode  of  collection  in  this  State,  under 
our  own  Constitution,  the  trial  by  jury  is  in  most 
cases  out  of  use.  The  taxes  are  usually  levied  by 
the  more  summary  proceeding  of  distress  and  sale, 
as  in  cases  of  rent.  And  it  is  acknowledged  on  all 
hands,  that  this  is  essential  to  the  efEcacy  of  the 
revenue  laws.  The  dilatory  course  of  a  trial  at  law 
to  recover  the  taxes  imposed  on  individuals,  would 
neither  suit  the  exigencies  of  the  public  nor  promote 
the  convenience  of  the  citizens.  It  would  often  occa- 
sion an  accumulation  of  costs,  more  burdensome  than 
the  original  sum  of  the  tax  to  be  levied. 

And  as  to  the  conduct  of  the  officers  of  the  revenue, 
the  provision  in  favor  of  trial  by  jury  in  criminal 
cases,  will  afford  the  security  aimed  at.  Wilful 
abuses  of  a  public  authority,  to  the  oppression  of  the 
subject,  and  every  species  of  official  extortion,  are 
offences  against  the  government,  for  which  the  per- 
sons who  commit  them  may  be  indicted  and  pun- 
ished according  to  the  circumstances  of  the  case. 

The  excellence  of  the  trial  by  jury  in  civil  cases 
appears  to  depend  on  circumstances  foreign  to  the 
preservation  of  liberty.  The  strongest  argument  in 
its  favor  is,  that  it  is  a  security  against  corruption. 


The  Federalist  3^7 

As  there  is  always  more  time  and  better  opportunity 
to  tamper  with  a  standing  body  of  magistrates  than 
with  a  jury  summoned  for  the  occasion,  there  is  room 
to  suppose  that  a  corrupt  influence  would  more 
easily  find  its  way  to  the  former  than  to  the  latter. 
The  force  of  this  consideration  is,  however,  dimin- 
ished by  others.  The  sheriff,  who  is  the  summoner 
of  ordinary  juries,  and  the  clerks  of  courts,  who  have 
the  nomination  of  special  juries,  are  themselves 
standing  officers,  and,  acting  individually,  may  be 
supposed  more  accessible  to  the  touch  of  corruption 
than  the  judges,  who  are  a  collective  body.  It  is  not 
difficult  to  see,  that  it  would  be  in  the  power  of  those 
officers  to  select  jurors  who  would  serve  the  purpose 
of  the  party  as  well  as  a  corrupted  bench.  In  the 
next  place,  it  may  fairly  be  supposed,  that  there 
would  be  less  difficulty  in  gaining  some  of  the  jurors 
promiscuously  taken  from  the  public  mass,  than  in 
gaining  men  who  had  been  chosen  by  the  govern- 
ment for  their  probity  and  good  character.  But 
making  every  deduction  for  these  considerations,  the 
trial  by  jury  must  still  be  a  valuable  check  upon 
corruption.  It  greatly  multiplies  the  impediments 
to  its  success.  As  matters  now  stand,  it  would  be 
necessary  to  corrupt  both  court  and  jury ;  for  where 
the  jury  have  gone  evidently  wrong,  the  court  will 
generally  grant  a  new  trial,  and  it  would  be  in  most 
cases  of  little  use  to  practise  upon  the  jury,  unless 
the  court  could  be  likewise  gained.  Here  then  is  a 
double  security ;  and  it  will  readily  be  perceived  that 
this  complicated  agency  tends  to  preserve  the  purity 
of  both  institutions.     By  increasing  the  obstacles  to 


3o8  Alexander  Hamilton 

success,  it  discourages  attempts  to  seduce  the  in- 
tegrity of  either.  The  temptations  to  prostitution 
which  the  judges  might  have  to  surmount,  must  cer- 
tainly be  much  fewer,  while  the  cooperation  of  a 
jury  is  necessary,  than  they  might  be,  if  they  had 
themselves  the  exclusive  determination  of  all  causes. 

Notwithstanding,  therefore,  the  doubts  I  have 
expressed,  as  to  the  essentiality  of  trial  by  jury  in 
civil  cases  to  liberty,  I  admit  that  it  is  in  most  cases, 
under  proper  regulations,  an  excellent  method  of 
determining  questions  of  property;  and  that  on  this 
account  alone  it  would  be  entitled  to  a  constitutional 
provision  in  its  favor  if  it  were  possible  to  fix  the 
limits  within  which  it  ought  to  be  comprehended. 
There  is,  however,  in  all  cases,  great  difficulty  in 
this;  and  men  not  blinded  by  enthusiasm  must  be 
sensible  that  in  a  federal  government,  which  is  a 
composition  of  societies  whose  ideas  and  institutions 
in  relation  to  the  matter  materially  vary  from  each 
other,  that  difficulty  must  be  not  a  little  augmented. 
For  my  own  part,  at  every  new  view  I  take  of  the 
subject,  I  become  more  convinced  of  the  reality  of 
the  obstacles  which,  we  are  authoritatively  informed, 
prevented  the  insertion  of  a  provision  on  this  head 
in  the  plan  of  the  convention. 

The  great  difference  between  the  limits  of  the  jury 
trial  in  different  States  is  not  generally  understood; 
and  as  it  must  have  considerable  influence  on  the 
sentence  we  ought  to  pass  upon  the  omission  com- 
plained of  in  regard  to  this  point,  an  explanation  of 
it  is  necessary.  In  this  State,  our  judicial  establish- 
ments resemble,  more  nearly  than  in  any  other, 


The  Federalist  309 

those  of  Great  Britain.  We  have  courts  of  common 
law,  courts  of  probates  (analogous  in  certain  matters 
to  the  spiritual  courts  in  England),  a  court  of  ad- 
rairalty,  and  a  court  of  chancery.  In  the  courts  of 
common  law  only,  the  trial  by  jury  prevails,  and  this 
with  some  exceptions.  In  all  the  others  a  single 
judge  presides,  and  proceeds  in  general  either  ac- 
cording to  the  course  of  the  canon  or  civil  law,  with- 
out the  aid  of  a  jury."  In  New  Jersey,  there  is  a 
court  of  chancery  which  proceeds  like  ours,  but 
neither  courts  of  admiralty  nor  of  probates,  in  the 
sense  in  which  these  last  are  established  with  us.  In 
that  State  the  courts  of  common  law  have  the  cog- 
nizance of  those  causes  which  with  us  are  determina- 
ble in  the  courts  of  admiralty  and  of  probates,  and 
of  course  the  jury  trial  is  more  extensive  in  New  Jersey 
than  in  New  York.  In  Pennsylvania,  this  is  perhaps 
still  more  the  case,  for  there  is  no  court  of  chancery 
in  that  State,  and  its  common-law  courts  have  equity 
jurisdiction.  It  has  a  court  of  admiralty,  but  none 
of  probates,  at  least  on  the  plan  of  ours.  Delaware 
has  in  these  respects  imitated  Pennsylvania.  Mary- 
land approaches  more  nearly  to  New  York,  as  does 
also  Virginia,  except  that  the  latter  has  a  plurality 
of  chancellors.  North  Carolina  bears  most  affinity 
to  Pennsylvania;  South  Carolina  to  Virginia.  I 
believe,  however,  that  in  some  of  those  States  which 
have  distinct  courts  of  admiralty,  the  causes  depend- 

^  It  has  been  erroneously  insinuated,  with  regard  to  the  court  of 
chancery,  that  this  court  generally  tries  disputed  facts  by  a  jury.  The 
truth  is,  that  references  to  a  jury  in  that  court  rarely  happen,  and  are 
in  no  case  necessary  but  where  the  validity  of  a  devise  of  land  comes 
into  question. — Publius. 


3IO  Alexander  Hamilton 

ing  in  them  are  triable  by  juries.  In  Georgia  there 
are  none  but  common-law  courts,  and  an  appeal  of 
course  lies  from  the  verdict  of  one  jury  to  another, 
which  is  called  a  special  jury,  and  for  which  a  par- 
ticular mode  of  appointment  is  marked  out.  In 
Connecticut,  they  have  no  distinct  courts  either  of 
chancery  or  of  admiralty,  and  their  courts  of  pro- 
bates have  no  jurisdiction  of  causes.  Their  common- 
law  courts  have  admiralty  and,  to  a  certain  extent, 
equity  jurisdiction.  In  cases  of  importance,  their 
General  Assembly  is  the  only  court  of  chancery.  In 
Connecticut,  therefore,  the  trial  by  jury  extends  in 
practice  further  than  in  any  other  State  yet  men- 
tioned. Rhode  Island  is,  I  believe,  in  this  particular, 
pretty  much  in  the  situation  of  Connecticut.  Massa- 
chusetts and  New  Hampshire,  in  regard  to  the  blend- 
ing of  law,  equity,  and  admiralty  jurisdictions,  are 
in  a  similar  predicament.  In  the  four  Eastern 
States,  the  trial  by  jury  not  only  stands  upon  a 
broader  foundation  than  in  the  other  States,  but  it 
is  attended  with  a  peculiarity  unknown,  in  its  full 
extent,  to  any  of  them.  There  is  an  appeal  of  course 
from  one  jury  to  another,  till  there  have  been  two 
verdicts  out  of  three  on  one  side. 

From  this  sketch  it  appears  that  there  is  a  ma- 
terial diversity,  as  well  in  the  modification  as  in  the 
extent  of  the  institution  of  trial  by  jury  in  civil  cases, 
in  the  several  States;  and  from  this  fact  these  ob- 
vious reflections  flow:  first,  that  no  general  rule 
could  have  been  fixed  upon  by  the  convention  which 
would  have  corresponded  with  the  circumstances  of 
all  the  States ;  and  secondly,  that  more  or  at  least  as 


The  Federalist  311 

much  might  have  been  hazarded  by  taking  the  sys- 
tem of  any  one  State  for  a  standard,  as  by  omitting 
a  provision  altogether  and  leaving  the  matter,  as 
has  been  done,  to  legislative  regulation. 

The  propositions  which  have  been  made  for  sup- 
plying the  omission  have  rather  served  to  illustrate 
than  to  obviate  the  difficulty  of  the  thing.  The 
minority  of  Pennsylvania  have  proposed  this  mode 
of  expression  for  the  purpose — ''Trial  by  jury  shall 
be  as  heretofore" — and  this  I  maintain  would  be 
senseless  and  nugatory.  The  United  States,  in  their 
united  or  collective  capacity,  are  the  object  to  which 
all  general  provisions  in  the  Constitution  must  neces- 
sarily be  construed  to  refer.  Now  it  is  evident  that 
though  trial  by  jury,  with  various  limitations,  is 
known  in  each  State  individually,  yet  in  the  United 
States,  as  such,  it  is  at  this  time  altogether  unknown, 
because  the  present  federal  government  has  no 
judiciary  power  whatever;  and  consequently  there 
is  no  proper  antecedent  or  previous  establishment  to 
which  the  term  heretofore  could  relate.  It  would 
therefore  be  destitute  of  a  precise  meaning,  and  in- 
operative from  its  uncertainty. 

As,  on  the  one  hand,  the  form  of  the  provision 
would  not  fulfil  the  intent  of  its  proposers,  so,  on  the 
other,  if  I  apprehend  that  intent  rightly,  it  would  be 
in  itself  inexpedient.  I  presume  it  to  be,  that  causes 
in  the  federal  courts  should  be  tried  by  jury,  if,  in 
the  State  where  the  courts  sat,  that  mode  of  trial 
would  obtain  in  a  similar  case  in  the  State  courts; 
that  is  to  say,  admiralty  causes  should  be  tried  in 
Connecticut  by  a  jury,  in  New  York  without  one. 


312  Alexander  Hamilton 

The  capricious  operation  of  so  dissimilar  a  method 
of  trial  in  the  same  cases,  under  the  same  govern- 
ment, is  of  itself  sufficient  to  indispose  every  well- 
regulated  judgment  towards  it.  Whether  the  cause 
should  be  tried  with  or  without  a  jury,  would  depend, 
in  a  great  number  of  cases,  on  the  accidental  situa- 
tion of  the  court  and  parties. 

But  this  is  not,  in  my  estimation,  the  greatest  ob- 
jection. I  feel  a  deep  and  deliberate  conviction  that 
there  are  many  cases  in  which  the  trial  by  jury  is  an 
ineligible  one.  I  think  it  so  particularly  in  cases 
which  concern  the  public  peace  with  foreign  nations 
— that  is  in  most  cases  where  the  question  turns 
wholly  on  the  laws  of  nations.  Of  this  nature, 
among  others,  are  all  prize  causes.  Juries  cannot 
be  supposed  competent  to  investigations  that  re- 
quire a  thorough  knowledge  of  the  laws  and  usages  of 
nations;  and  they  will  sometimes  be  under  the  in- 
fluence of  impressions  which  will  not  suffer  them  to 
pay  sufficient  regard  to  those  considerations  of  public 
policy  which  ought  to  guide  their  inquiries.  There 
would  of  course  be  always  danger  that  the  rights  of 
other  nations  might  be  infringed  by  their  decisions, 
so  as  to  afford  occasions  of  reprisal  and  war.  Though 
the  proper  province  of  juries  be  to  determine  matters 
of  fact,  yet  in  most  cases  legal  consequences  are 
complicated  with  fact  in  such  a  manner  as  to  render 
a  separation  impracticable. 

It  will  add  great  weight  to  this  remark,  in  relation 
to  prize  causes,  to  mention  that  the  method  of  deter- 
mining them  has  been  thought  worthy  of  particular 
regulation  in  various  treaties  between  different  pow- 


The  Federalist  313 

ers  of  Europe,  and  that,  pursuant  to  such  treaties, 
they  are  determinable  in  Great  Britain,  in  the  last 
resort,  before  the  king  himself,  in  his  privy  coun- 
cil, where  the  fact,  as  well  as  the  law,  undergoes  a 
reexamination.  This  alone  demonstrates  the  im- 
policy of  inserting  a  fundamental  provision  in  the 
Constitution  which  would  make  the  State  systems  a 
standard  for  the  national  government  in  the  article 
under  consideration,  and  the  danger  of  encumbering 
the  government  with  any  constitutional  provisions 
the  propriety  of  which  is  not  indisputable. 

My  convictions  are  equally  strong  that  great  ad- 
vantages result  from  the  separation  of  the  equity 
from  the  law  jurisdiction,  and  that  the  causes  which 
belong  to  the  former  would  be  improperly  com- 
mitted to  juries.  The  great  and  primary  use  of  a 
court  of  equity  is  to  give  relief  in  extraordinary  cases  y 
which  are  exceptions  '  to  general  rules.  To  unite  the 
jurisdiction  of  such  cases  with  the  ordinary  jurisdic- 
tion, must  have  a  tendency  to  unsettle  the  general 
rules,  and  to  subject  every  case  that  arises  to  a 
special  determination ;  while  a  separation  of  the  one 
from  the  other  has  the  contrary  effect  of  rendering 
one  a  sentinel  over  the  other,  and  of  keeping  each 
within  the  expedient  limits.  Besides  this,  the  cir- 
cumstances that  constitute  cases  proper  for  courts 
of  equity  are  in  many  instances  so  nice  and  intricate, 
that  they  are  incompatible  with  the  genius  of  trials 
by  jury.     They  require  often  such  long,  deliberate, 

'  It  is  true  that  the  principles  by  which  that  relief  is  governed  are 
now  reduced  to  a  regular  system ;  but  it  is  not  the  less  true  that  they 
are  in  the  main  applicable  to  special  circumstances,  which  form 
exceptions  to  general  rules. — Publius. 


314  Alexander  Hamilton 

and  critical  investigation  as  would  be  impracticable 
to  men  called  from  their  occupations,  and  obliged  to 
decide  before  they  were  permitted  to  return  to  them. 
The  simplicity  and  expedition  which  form  the  dis- 
tinguishing characters  of  this  mode  of  trial  require 
that  the  matter  to  be  decided  should  be  reduced  to 
some  single  and  obvious  point;  while  the  litigations 
usual  in  chancery  frequently  comprehend  a  long 
train  of  minute  and  independent  particulars. 

It  is  true  that  the  separation  of  the  equity  from 
the  legal  jurisdiction  is  peculiar  to  the  English  sys- 
tem of  jurisprudence:  which  is  the  model  that  has 
been  followed  in  several  of  the  States.  But  it  is 
equally  true  that  the  trial  by  jury  has  been  unknown 
in  every  case  in  which  they  have  been  united.  And 
the  separation  is  essential  to  the  preservation  of  that 
institution  in  its  pristine  purity.  The  nature  of  a 
court  of  equity  will  readily  permit  the  extension  of 
its  jurisdiction  to  matters  of  law;  but  it  is  not  a 
little  to  be  suspected,  that  the  attempt  to  extend  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  courts  of  law  to  matters  of  equity 
will  not  only  be  unproductive  of  the  advantages 
which  may  be  derived  from  courts  of  chancery,  on 
the  plan  upon  which  they  are  established  in  this 
State,  but  will  tend  gradually  to  change  the  nature 
of  the  courts  of  law,  and  to  undermine  the  trial  by 
jury,  by  introducing  questions  too  complicated  for  a 
decision  in  that  mode. 

These  appeared  to  be  conclusive  reasons  against 
incorporating  the  systems  of  all  the  States,  in  the 
formation  of  the  national  judiciary,  according  to 
what  may  be  conjectured  to  have  been  the  attempt 


The  Federalist  3^5 

of  the  Pennsylvania  minority.  Let  us  now  examine 
how  far  the  proposition  of  Massachusetts  is  calculated 
to  remedy  the  supposed  defect. 

It  is  in  this  form:  "  In  civil  actions  between  citi- 
zens of  different  States,  every  issue  of  fact,  arising  in 
actions  at  common  law,  may  be  tried  by  a  jury  if  the 
parties,  or  either  of  them,  request  it." 

This,  at  best,  is  a  proposition  confined  to  one  de- 
scription of  causes;  and  the  inference  is  fair,  either 
that  the  Massachusetts  convention  considered  that 
as  the  only  class  of  federal  causes,  in  which  the  trial 
by  jury  would  be  proper;  or  that  if  desirous  of  a 
more  extensive  provision,  they  found  it  impracti- 
cable to  devise  one  which  would  properly  answer  the 
end.  If  the  first,  the  omission  of  a  regulation  respect- 
ing so  partial  an  object  can  never  be  considered  as 
a  material  imperfection  in  the  system.  If  the  last,  it 
affords  a  strong  corroboration  of  the  extreme  diffi- 
culty of  the  thing. 

But  this  is  not  all:  if  we  advert  to  the  observa- 
tions already  made  respecting  the  courts  that  subsist 
in  the  several  States  of  the  Union,  and  the  differ- 
ent powers  exercised  by  them,  it  will  appear  that 
there  are  no  expressions  more  vague  and  indetermi- 
nate than  those  which  have  been  employed  to  charac- 
terize that  species  of  causes  which  it  is  intended  shall 
be  entitled  to  a  trial  by  jury.  In  this  State,  the 
boundaries  between  actions  at  common  law  and  ac- 
tions of  equitable  jurisdiction,  are  ascertained  in 
conformity  to  the  rules  which  prevail  in  England 
upon  that  subject  In  many  of  the  other  States  the 
boundaries  are  less  precise.     In  some  of  them,  every 


3i6  Alexander  Hamilton 

cause  is  to  be  tried  in  a  court  of  common  law,  and 
upon  that  foundation  every  action  may  be  considered 
as  an  action  at  common  law,  to  be  determined  by  a 
jury,  if  the  parties,  or  either  of  them,  choose  it. 
Hence  the  same  irregularity  and  confusion  would 
be  introduced  by  a  compliance  with  this  proposition, 
that  I  have  already  noticed  as  resulting  from  the 
regulation  proposed  by  the  Pennsylvania  minority. 
In  one  State  a  cause  would  receive  its  determina- 
tion from  a  jury,  if  the  parties,  or  either  of  them, 
requested  it;  but  in  another  State,  a  cause  exactly 
similar  to  the  other,  must  be  decided  without  the 
intervention  of  a  jury,  because  the  State  judicatories 
varied  as  to  common-law  jurisdiction. 

It  is  obvious,  therefore,  that  the  Massachusetts 
proposition,  upon  this  subject  cannot  operate  as  a 
general  regulation,  until  some  uniform  plan,  with 
respect  to  the  limits  of  common-law  and  equitable 
jurisdictions,  shall  be  adopted  by  the  different 
States.  To  devise  a  plan  of  that  kind,  is  a  task 
arduous  in  itself,  and  which  it  would  require  much 
time  and  reflection  to  mature.  It  would  be  extremely 
difficult,  if  not  impossible,  to  suggest  any  general 
regulation  that  would  be  acceptable  to  all  the  States 
in  the  Union,  or  that  would  perfectly  quadrate  with 
the  several  State  institutions. 

It  may  be  asked,  Why  could  not  a  reference  have 
been  made  to  the  constitution  of  this  State,  taking 
that,  which  is  allowed  by  me  to  be  a  good  one,  as  a 
standard  for  the  United  States?  I  answer  that  it 
is  not  very  probable  the  other  States  would  enter- 
tain the  same  opinion  of  our  institutions  as  we  do 


The  Federalist  317 

ourselves.  It  is  natural  to  suppose  that  they  are 
hitherto  more  attached  to  their  own,  and  that  each 
would  struggle  for  the  preference.  If  the  plan  of 
taking  one  State  as  a  model  for  the  whole  had  been 
thought  of  in  the  convention,  it  is  to  be  presumed 
that  the  adoption  of  it  in  that  body  would  have  been 
rendered  difficult  by  the  predilection  of  each  repre- 
sentation in  favor  of  its  own  government;  and  it 
must  be  uncertain  which  of  the  States  would  have 
been  taken  as  the  model.  It  has  been  shown  that 
many  of  them  would  be  improper  ones.  And  I  leave 
it  to  conjecture,  whether,  under  all  circumstances, 
it  is  most  likely  that  New  York,  or  some  other  State, 
would  have  been  preferred.  But  admit  that  a 
judicious  selection  could  have  been  effected  in  the 
convention,  still  there  would  have  been  great  danger 
of  jealousy  and  disgust  in  the  other  States,  at  the 
partiality  which  had  been  shown  to  the  institutions 
of  one.  The  enemies  of  the  plan  would  have  been 
furnished  with  a  fine  pretext  for  raising  a  host  of 
local  prejudices  against  it,  which  perhaps  might 
have  hazarded,  in  no  inconsiderable  degree,  its  final 
establishment. 

To  avoid  the  embarrassments  of  a  definition  of 
the  cases  which  the  trial  by  jury  ought  to  embrace, 
it  is  sometimes  suggested  by  men  of  enthusiastic 
tempers,  that  a  provision  might  have  been  inserted 
for  establishing  it  in  all  cases  whatsoever.  For  this, 
I  believe,  no  precedent  is  to  be  found  in  any  member 
of  the  Union;  and  the  considerations  which  have 
been  stated  in  discussing  the  proposition  of  the  mi- 
nority of  Pennsylvania,  must  satisfy  every  sober  mind 


3i8  Alexander  Hamilton 

that  the  establishment  of  the  trial  by  jury  in  all  cases 
would  have  been  an  unpardonable  error  in  the  plan. 

In  short,  the  more  it  is  considered  the  more  ardu- 
ous will  appear  the  task  of  fashioning  a  provision 
in  such  a  form  as  not  to  express  too  little  to  answer 
the  purpose,  or  too  much  to  be  advisable;  or  which 
might  not  have  opened  other  sources  of  opposition 
to  the  great  and  essential  object  of  introducing  a  firm 
national  government. 

I  cannot  but  persuade  myself,  on  the  other  hand, 
that  the  different  lights  in  which  the  subject  has 
been  placed  in  the  course  of  these  observations,  will 
go  far  towards  removing  in  candid  minds  the  appre- 
hensions they  may  have  entertained  on  the  point. 
They  have  tended  to  show  that  the  security  of  lib- 
erty is  materially  concerned  only  in  the  trial  by  jury 
in  criminal  cases,  which  is  provided  for  in  the  most 
ample  manner  in  the  plan  of  the  convention;  that 
even  in  far  the  greatest  proportion  of  civil  cases,  and 
those  in  which  the  great  body  of  the  community  is 
interested,  that  mode  of  trial  will  remain  in  its  full 
force,  as  established  in  the  State  constitutions,  un- 
touched and  unaffected  by  the  plan  of  the  conven- 
tion ;  that  it  is  in  no  case  abolished  ^  by  that  plan ; 
and  that  there  are  great  if  not  insurmountable  diffi- 
culties in  the  way  of  making  any  precise  and  proper 
provision  for  it  in  a  Constitution  for  the  United 
States. 

The  best  judges  of  the  matter  will  be  the  least 

*  Vide  No.  LXXXI.,  in  which  the  supposition  of  its  being  abolished 
by  the  appellate  jtirisdiction  in  matters  of  fact  being  vested  in  the 
Supreme  Cotirt,  is  examined  and  refuted. — Publius. 


The  Federalist  319 

anxious  for  a  constitutional  establishment  of  the 
trial  by  jury  in  civil  cases,  and  will  be  the  most  ready 
to  admit  that  the  changes  which  are  continually 
happening  in  the  affairs  of  society  may  render  a 
different  mode  of  determining  questions  of  property 
preferable  in  many  cases  in  which  that  mode  of  trial 
now  prevails.  For  my  part,  I  acknowledge  myself 
to  be  convinced  that  even  in  this  State  it  might 
be  advantageously  extended  to  some  cases  to  which 
it  does  not  at  present  apply,  and  might  as  advan- 
tageously be  abridged  in  others.  It  is  conceded  by 
by  all  reasonable  men  that  it  ought  not  to  obtain 
in  all  cases.  The  examples  of  innovations  which 
contract  its  ancient  limits,  as  well  in  these  States  as 
in  Great  Britain,  afford  a  strong  presimiption  that 
its  former  extent  has  been  found  inconvenient,  and 
give  room  to  suppose  that  future  experience  may 
discover  the  propriety  and  utility  of  other  excep- 
tions. I  suspect  it  to  be  impossible  in  the  nature  of 
the  thing  to  fix  the  salutary  point  at  which  the 
operation  of  the  institution  ought  to  stop,  and 
this  is  with  me  a  strong  argument  for  leaving  the 
matter  to  the  discretion  of  the  legislature. 

This  is  now  clearly  understood  to  be  the  case  in 
Great  Britain,  and  it  is  equally  so  in  the  State  of 
Connecticut ;  and  yet  it  may  be  safely  affirmed  that 
more  numerous  encroachments  have  been  made  upon 
the  trial  by  jury  in  this  State  since  the  Revolution, 
though  provided  for  by  a  positive  article  of  our  con- 
stitution, than  has  happened  in  the  same  time  either 
in  Connecticut  or  Great  Britain.  It  may  be  added 
that  these  encroachments  have  generally  originated 


320  Alexander  Hamilton 

with  the  men  who  endeavor  to  persuade  the  people 
they  are  the  warmest  defenders  of  popular  liberty, 
but  who  have  rarely  suffered  constitutional  obstacles 
to  arrest  them  in  a  favorite  career.  The  truth  is 
that  the  general  genius  of  a  government  is  all  that 
can  be  substantially  relied  upon  for  permanent 
effects.  Particular  provisions,  though  not  alto- 
gether useless,  have  far  less  virtue  and  efhcacy  than 
are  commonly  ascribed  to  them;  and  the  want  of 
them  will  never  be,  with  men  of  sound  discernment, 
a  decisive  objection  to  any  plan  which  exhibits  the 
leading  characters  of  a  good  government. 

It  certainly  sounds  not  a  little  harsh  and  extra- 
ordinary to  affirm  that  there  is  no  security  for  lib- 
erty in  a  Constitution  which  expressly  establishes 
the  trial  by  jury  in  criminal  cases,  because  it  does 
not  do  it  in  civil  also;  while  it  is  a  notorious  fact 
that  Connecticut,  which  has  been  always  regarded 
as  the  most  popular  State  in  the  Union,  can  boast  of 
no  constitutional  provision  for  either. 

PUBLIUS. 


From  McLean's  Edition,  New  York,  M.DCC.LXXXVIII 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXXXIV 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

In  the  course  of  the  foregoing  review  of  the  Con- 
stitution, I  have  taken  notice  of,  and  endeavored  to 
answer  most  of  the  objections  which  have  appeared 
against   it.     There,  however,  remain  a  few  which 


The  Federalist  321 

either  did  not  fall  naturally  under  any  particular 
head  or  were  forgotten  in  their  proper  places.  These 
shall  now  be  discussed;  but  as  the  subject  has  been 
drawn  into  great  length,  I  shall  so  far  consult  brevity 
as  to  comprise  all  my  observations  on  these  miscel- 
laneous points  in  a  single  paper. 

The  most  considerable  of  the  remaining  objections 
is  that  the  plan  of  the  convention  contains  no  bill 
of  rights.  Among  other  answers  given  to  this,  it  has 
been  upon  different  occasions  remarked  that  the  con- 
stitutions of  several  of  the  States  are  in  a  similar 
predicament.  I  add  that  New  York  is  of  the  num- 
ber. And  yet  the  opposers  of  the  new  system,  in 
this  State,  who  profess  an  unlimited  admiration  for 
its  constitution,  are  among  the  most  intemperate 
partisans  of  a  bill  of  rights.  To  justify  their  zeal  in 
this  matter,  they  allege  two  things:  one  is  that, 
though  the  constitution  of  New  York  has  no  bill  of 
rights  prefixed  to  it,  yet  it  contains,  in  the  body  of 
it,  various  provisions  in  favor  of  particular  privileges 
and  rights,  which,  in  substance,  amount  to  the  same 
thing;  the  other  is,  that  the  Constitution  adopts,  in 
their  full  extent,  the  common  and  statute  law  of 
Great  Britain,  by  which  many  other  rights,  not  ex- 
pressed in  it,  are  equally  secured. 

To  the  first  I  answer,  that  the  Constitution 
proposed  by  the  convention  contains,  as  well  as 
the  constitution  of  this  State,  a  number  of  such 
provisions. 

Independent  of  those  which  relate  to  the  structure 
of  the  government,  we  find  the  following:  Article  i, 
section  3,  clause  7 — ''Judgment  in  cases  of  impeach- 


VOL.   XII.  — 21. 


322  Alexander  Hamilton 

ment  shall  not  extend  further  than  to  removal  from 
office,  and  disqualification  to  hold  and  enjoy  any 
office  of  honor,  trust,  or  profit  under  the  United 
States;  but  the  party  convicted  shall,  nevertheless, 
be  liable  and  subject  to  indictment,  trial,  judgment, 
and  punishment  according  to  law."  Section  9,  of 
the  same  article,  clause  2 — ''The  privilege  of  the 
writ  of  habeas  corpus  shall  not  be  suspended,  unless 
when  in  cases  of  rebellion  or  invasion  the  public 
safety  may  require  it."  Clause  3 — "No  bill  of  at- 
tainder or  ex-post-facto  law  shall  be  passed."  Clause 
7 — "No  title  of  nobility  shall  be  granted  by  the 
United  States;  and  no  person  holding  any  office  of 
profit  or  trust  under  them,  shall,  without  the  con- 
sent of  the  Congress,  accept  of  any  present,  emolu- 
ment, office,  or  title  of  any  kind  whatever,  from  any 
king,  prince,  or  foreign  state."  Article  3,  section  2, 
clause  3 — "The  trial  of  all  crimes,  except  in  cases  of 
impeachment,  shall  be  by  jury;  and  such  trial  shall 
be  held  in  the  State  where  the  said  crimes  shall  have 
been  committed;  but  when  not  committed  within 
any  State,  the  trial  shall  be  at  such  place  or  places 
as  the  Congress  may  by  law  have  directed."  Sec- 
tion 3,  of  the  same  article — "Treason  against  the 
United  States  shall  consist  only  in  levying  war 
against  them,  or  in  adhering  to  their  enemies,  giving 
them  aid  and  comfort.  No  person  shall  be  con- 
victed of  treason,  unless  on  the  testimony  of  two  wit- 
nesses to  the  same  overt  act,  or  on  confession  in  open 
court."  And  clause  3,  of  the  same  section — "The 
Congress  shall  have  power  to  declare  the  punishment 
of  treason;   but  no  attainder  of  treason  shall  work 


The  Federalist  323 

corruption  of  blood,  or  forfeiture,  except  during  the 
life  of  the  person  attainted." 

It  may  well  be  a  question,  whether  these  are  not, 
upon  the  whole,  of  equal  importance  with  any  which 
are  to  be  found  in  the  constitution  of  this  State. 
The  establishment  of  the  writ  of  habeas  corpus,  the 
prohibition  of  ex-post-facto  laws,  and  of  titles  of 
NOBILITY,  to  which  wc  have  no  corresponding  provision 
in  our  Constitution,  are  perhaps  greater  securities  to 
liberty  and  republicanism  than  any  it  contains.  The 
creation  of  crimes  after  the  commission  of  the  fact, 
or,  in  other  words,  the  subjecting  of  men  to  punish- 
ment for  things  which,  when  they  were  done,  were 
breaches  of  no  law,  and  the  practice  of  arbitrary  im- 
prisonments, have  been,  in  all  ages,  the  favorite  and 
most  formidable  instruments  of  tyranny.  The  ob- 
servations of  the  judicious  Blackstone,^  in  reference 
to  the  latter,  are  well  worthy  of  recital:  '*  To  bereave 
a  man  of  life,  [says  he,]  or  by  violence  to  confiscate 
his  estate,  without  accusation  or  trial,  would  be  so 
gross  and  notorious  an  act  of  despotism,  as  must  at 
once  convey  the  alarm  of  tyranny  throughout  the 
whole  nation;  but  confinement  of  the  person,  by 
secretly  hurrying  him  to  jail,  where  his  sufferings  are 
unknown  or  forgotten,  is  a  less  public,  a  less  striking, 
and  therefore  a  more  dangerous  engine  of  arbitrary 
government."  And  as  a  remedy  for  this  fatal  evil 
he  is  everywhere  peculiarly  emphatical  in  his  en- 
comiums on  the  haheas-corpus  act,  which  in  one  place 
he  calls  ''  the  bulwark  of  the  British  Constitution,"  * 

'  Vide  Blackstone's  Commentaries ,  vol.  1.,  p.  136. — Publius. 
3  Ibid,  voL  iv.,  p.  438. — Publius. 


324  Alexander  Hamilton 

Nothing  need  be  said  to  illustrate  the  importance 
of  the  prohibition  of  titles  of  nobility.  This  may 
truly  be  denominated  the  corner-stone  of  repub- 
lican government;  for  so  long  as  they  are  excluded, 
there  can  never  be  serious  danger  that  the  govern- 
ment will  be  any  other  than  that  of  the  people. 

To  the  second — that  is,  to  the  pretended  establish- 
ment of  the  common  and  statute  law  by  the  Con- 
stitution, I  answer,  that  they  are  expressly  made 
subject  *'to  such  alterations  and  provisions  as  the 
legislature  shall  from  time  to  time  make  concerning 
the  same."  They  are  therefore  at  any  moment 
liable  to  repeal  by  the  ordinary  legislative  power, 
and  of  course  have  no  constitutional  sanction.  The 
only  use  of  the  declaration  was  to  recognize  the  an- 
cient law,  and  to  remove  doubts  which  might  have 
been  occasioned  by  the  Revolution.  This  conse- 
quently can  be  considered  as  no  part  of  a  declara- 
tion of  rights,  which  under  our  constitutions  must 
be  intended  as  limitations  of  the  power  of  the  govern- 
ment itself. 

It  has  been  several  times  truly  remarked  that 
bills  of  rights  are,  in  their  origin,  stipulations  be- 
tween kings  and  their  subjects,  abridgments  of 
prerogative  in  favor  of  privilege,  reservations  of 
rights  not  surrendered  to  the  prince.  Such  was 
Magna  Charta,  obtained  by  the  barons,  sword  in 
hand,  from  King  John.  Such  were  the  subsequent 
confirmations  of  that  charter  by  succeeding  princes. 
Such  was  the  Petition  of  Right  assented  to  by  Charles 
I.,  in  the  beginning  of  his  reign.  Such,  also,  was  the 
Declaration  of  Right  presented  by  the  Lords  and 


The  Federalist  325 

Commons  to  the  Prince  of  Orange  in  1688,  and 
afterwards  thrown  into  the  form  of  an  act  of  parHa- 
ment  called  the  Bill  of  Rights.  It  is  evident,  there- 
fore, that,  according  to  their  primitive  signification 
they  have  no  application  to  constitutions  professedly 
founded  upon  the  power  of  the  people,  and  executed 
by  their  immediate  representatives  and  servants. 
Here,  in  strictness,  the  people  surrender  nothing; 
and  as  they  retain  every  thing  they  have  no  need  of 
particular  reservations.  "We,  the  people  of  the 
United  States,  to  secure  the  blessings  of  liberty  to 
ourselves  and  our  posterity,  do  ordain  and  establish 
this  Constitution  for  the  United  States  of  America.** 
Here  is  a  better  recognition  of  popular  rights,  than 
volumes  of  those  aphorisms  which  make  the  prin- 
cipal figure  in  several  of  our  State  bills  of  rights,  and 
which  would  sound  much  better  in  a  treatise  of  ethics 
than  in  a  constitution  of  government. 

But  a  minute  detail  of  particular  rights  is  certainly 
far  less  applicable  to  a  Constitution  like  that  under 
consideration,  which  is  merely  intended  to  regulate 
the  general  political  interests  of  the  nation,  than  to 
a  constitution  which  has  the  regulation  of  every 
species  of  personal  and  private  concerns.  If,  there- 
fore, the  loud  clamors  against  the  plan  of  the  con- 
vention on  this  score,  are  well  founded,  no  epithets 
of  reprobation  will  be  too  strong  for  the  constitution 
of  this  State.  But  the  truth  is,  that  both  of  them 
contain  all  which,  in  relation  to  their  objects,  is 
reasonably  to  be  desired. 

I  go  further,  and  affirm  that  bills  of  rights,  in  the 
sense  and  to  the  extent  in  which  they  are  contended 


326  Alexander  Hamilton 

for,  are  not  only  unnecessary  in  the  proposed  Con- 
stitution, but  would  even  be  dangerous.  They 
would  contain  various  exceptions  to  powers  not 
granted;  and,  on  this  very  account,  would  afford  a 
colorable  pretext  to  claim  more  than  were  granted. 
For  why  declare  that  things  shall  not  be  done  which 
there  is  no  power  to  do  ?  Why,  for  instance,  should 
it  be  said  that  the  liberty  of  the  press  shall  not  be 
restrained,  when  no  power  is  given  by  which  restric- 
tions may  be  imposed?  I  will  not  contend  that 
such  a  provision  would  confer  a  regulating  power; 
but  it  is  evident  that  it  would  furnish,  to  men  dis- 
posed to  usurp,  a  plausible  pretence  for  claiming 
that  power.  They  might  urge  with  a  semblance  of 
reason,  that  the  Constitution  ought  not  to  be 
charged  with  the  absurdity  of  providing  against  the 
abuse  of  an  authority  which  was  not  given,  and  that 
the  provision  against  restraining  the  liberty  of  the 
press  afforded  a  clear  implication,  that  a  power  to 
prescribe  proper  regulations  concerning  it  was  in- 
tended to  be  vested  in  the  national  government. 
This  may  serve  as  a  specimen  of  the  numerous 
handles  which  would  be  given  to  the  doctrine  of  con- 
structive powers,  by  the  indulgence  of  an  injudicious 
zeal  for  bills  of  rights. 

On  the  subject  of  the  liberty  of  the  press,  as  much 
as  has  been  said,  I  cannot  forbear  adding  a  remark 
or  two:  in  the  first  place,  I  observe,  that  there  is 
not  a  syllable  concerning  it  in  the  constitution  of 
this  State;  in  the  next,  I  contend,  that  whatever 
has  been  said  about  it  in  that  of  any  other  State 
amounts  to  nothing.     What  signifies  a  declaration 


The  Federalist  327 

that  '*the  Hberty  of  the  press  shall  be  inviolably 
preserved"?  What  is  the  liberty  of  the  press? 
Who  can  give  it  any  definition  which  would  not 
leave  the  utmost  latitude  for  evasion?  I  hold  it  to 
be  impracticable;  and  from  this  I  infer,  that  its  se- 
curity, whatever  fine  declarations  may  be  inserted 
in  any  constitution  respecting  it,  must  altogether 
depend  on  public  opinion,  and  on  the  general  spirit 
of  the  people  and  of  the  government.'  And  here, 
after  all,  as  is  intimated  upon  another  occasion, 
must  we  seek  for  the  only  solid  basis  of  all  our  rights. 
There  remains  but  one  other  view  of  this  matter 
to  conclude  the  point.  The  truth  is,  after  all  the 
declamations  we  have  heard,  that  the  Constitution 
is  itself,  in  every  rational  sense,  and  to  every  useful 
purpose,   A   BILL  OF  RIGHTS.     The  several  bills  of 

^  To  show  that  there  is  a  power  in  the  Constitution  by  which  the 
liberty  of  the  press  may  be  affected,  recourse  has  been  had  to  the 
power  of  taxation.  It  is  said  that  duties  may  be  laid  upon  the  pub- 
lications so  high  as  to  amount  to  a  prohibition.  I  know  not  by  what 
logic  it  could  be  maintained,  that  the  declarations  in  the  State  con- 
stitutions, in  favor  of  the  freedom  of  the  press,  would  be  a  constitu- 
tional impediment  to  the  imposition  of  duties  upon  publications  by 
the  State  legislatures.  It  cannot  certainly  be  pretended  that  any 
degree  of  duties,  however  low,  would  be  an  abridgment  of  the  liberty 
of  the  press.  We  know  that  newspapers  are  taxed  in  Great  Britain, 
and  yet  it  is  notorious  that  the  press  nowhere  enjoys  greater  liberty 
than  in  that  country.  And  if  duties  of  any  kind  may  be  laid  without 
a  violation  of  that  liberty,  it  is  evidenl^  that  the  extent  must  depend 
on  legislative  discretion,  regulated  by  public  opinion;  so  that,  after 
all,  general  declarations  respecting  the  liberty  of  the  press,  will  give 
it  no  greater  security  than  it  will  have  without  them.  The  same  in- 
vasions of  it  may  be  effected  tinder  the  State  constitutions  which  con- 
tain those  declarations  through  the  means  of  taxation,  as  under  the 
proposed  Constitution,  which  has  nothing  of  the  kind.  It  would  be 
quite  as  significant  to  declare  that  government  ought  to  be  free,  that 
taxes  ought  not  to  be  excessive,  etc.,  as  that  the  liberty  of  the  press 
ought  not  to  be  restrained. — Publius. 


328  Alexander  Hamilton 

rights  in  Great  Britain  form  its  Constitution,  and 
conversely  the  constitution  of  each  State  is  its 
bill  of  rights.  And  the  proposed  Constitution,  if 
adopted,  will  be  the  bill  of  rights  of  the  Union.  Is  it 
one  object  of  a  bill  of  rights  to  declare  and  specify 
the  political  privileges  of  the  citizens  in  the  structure 
and  administration  of  the  government?  This  is 
done  in  the  most  ample  and  precise  manner  in  the 
plan  of  the  convention;  comprehending  various 
precautions  for  the  public  security,  which  are  not  to 
be  found  in  any  of  the  State  constitutions.  Is  an- 
other object  of  a  bill  of  rights  to  define  certain 
immunities  and  modes  of  proceeding,  which  are 
relative  to  personal  and  private  concerns?  This 
we  have  seen  has  also  been  attended  to,  in  a  variety 
of  cases,  in  the  same  plan.  Adverting  therefore  to 
the  substantial  meaning  of  a  bill  of  rights,  it  is  ab- 
surd to  allege  that  it  is  not  to  be  found  in  the  work 
of  the  convention.  It  may  be  said  that  it  does  not 
go  far  enough,  though  it  will  not  be  easy  to  make 
this  appear;  but  it  can  with  no  propriety  be  con- 
tended that  there  is  no  such  thing.  It  certainly 
must  be  immaterial  what  mode  is  observed  as  to 
the  order  of  declaring  the  rights  of  the  citizens,  if 
they  are  to  be  found  in  any  part  of  the  instrument 
which  establishes  the  government.  And  hence  it  must 
be  apparent,  that  much  of  what  has  been  said  on  this 
subject  rests  merely  on  verbal  and  nominal  distinc- 
tions, entirely  foreign  from  the  substance  of  the  thing. 
Another  objection  which  has  been  made,  and 
which,  from  the  frequency  of  its  repetition,  it  is  to 
be  presimied  is  relied  on,  is  of  this  nature:    ''It  is 


The  Federalist  329 

improper  [say  the  objectors]  to  confer  such  large 
powers  as  are  proposed,  upon  the  national  govern- 
ment, because  the  seat  of  that  government  must  of 
necessity  be  too  remote  from  many  of  the  States  to 
admit  of  a  proper  knowledge  on  the  part  of  the  con- 
stituent, of  the  conduct  of  the  representative  body." 
This  argument,  if  it  proves  any  thing,  proves  that 
there  ought  to  be  no  general  government  whatever. 
For  the  powers  which,  it  seems  to  be  agreed  on  all 
hands,  ought  to  be  vested  in  the  Union,  cannot  be 
safely  intrusted  to  a  body  which  is  not  under  every 
requisite  control.  But  there  are  satisfactory  reasons 
to  show  that  the  objection  is  in  reality  not  well 
founded.  There  is  in  most  of  the  arguments  which 
relate  to  distance  a  palpable  illusion  of  the  imagina- 
tion. What  are  the  sources  of  information  by  which 
the  people  in  Montgomery  County  must  regulate 
their  judgment  of  the  conduct  of  their  representa- 
tives in  the  State  legislature  ?  Of  personal  observa- 
tion they  can  have  no  benefit.  This  is  confined  to 
the  citizens  on  the  spot.  They  must  therefore  de- 
pend on  the  information  of  intelligent  men,  in  whom 
they  confide ;  and  how  must  these  men  obtain  their 
information?  Evidently  from  the  complexion  of 
public  measures,  from  the  public  prints,  from  cor- 
respondences with  their  representatives,  and  with 
other  persons  who  reside  at  the  place  of  their  de- 
liberations. This  does  not  apply  to  Montgomery 
County  only,  but  to  all  the  counties  at  any  consid- 
erable distance  from  the  seat  of  government. 

It  is  equally  evident  that  the  same  sources  of  in- 
formation would  be  open  to  the  people  in  relation  to 


^^o  Alexander  Hamilton 

the  conduct  of  their  representatives  in  the  general 
government,  and  the  impediments  to  a  prompt  com- 
munication which  distance  may  be  supposed  to 
create,  will  be  overbalanced  by  the  effects  of  the 
vigilance  of  the  State  governments.  The  executive 
and  legislative  bodies  of  each  State  will  be  so  many 
sentinels  over  the  persons  employed  in  every  de- 
partment of  the  national  administration;  and  as  it 
will  be  in  their  power  to  adopt  and  pursue  a  regular 
and  effectual  system  of  intelligence,  they  can  never 
be  at  a  loss  to  know  the  behavior  of  those  who  re- 
present their  constituents  in  the  national  councils, 
and  can  readily  communicate  the  same  knowledge 
to  the  people.  Their  disposition  to  apprise  the  com- 
munity of  whatever  may  prejudice  its  interests  from 
another  quarter,  may  be  relied  upon,  if  it  were  only 
from  the  rivalship  of  power.  And  we  may  conclude 
with  the  fullest  assurance  that  the  people,  through 
that  channel,  will  be  better  informed  of  the  conduct 
of  their  national  representatives,  than  they  can  be 
by  any  means  they  now  possess  of  that  of  their  State 
representatives . 

It  ought  also  to  be  remembered  that  the  citizens 
who  inhabit  the  country  at  and  near  the  seat  of 
government  will,  in  all  questions  that  affect  the  gen- 
eral liberty  and  prosperity,  have  the  same  interest 
with  those  who  are  at  a  distance,  and  that  they  will 
stand  ready  to  sound  the  alarm  when  necessary, 
and  to  point  out  the  actors  in  any  pernicious  project. 
The  public  papers  will  be  expeditious  messengers  of 
intelligence  to  the  most  remote  inhabitants  of  the 
Union. 


The  Federalist  33 1 

Among  the  many  curious  objections  which  have 
appeared  against  the  proposed  Constitution,  the 
most  extraordinary  and  the  least  colorable  is  de- 
rived from  the  want  of  some  provision  respecting 
the  debts  due  to  the  United  States.  This  has  been 
represented  as  a  tacit  relinquishment  of  those 
debts,  and  as  a  wicked  contrivance  to  screen  public 
defaulters.  The  newspapers  have  teemed  with  the 
most  inflammatory  railings  on  this  head;  yet  there 
is  nothing  clearer  than  that  the  suggestion  is  entirely 
void  of  foundation,  the  offspring  of  extreme  ignor- 
ance or  extreme  dishonesty.  In  addition  to  the 
remarks  I  have  made  upon  the  subject  in  another 
place,  I  shall  only  observe  that  as  it  is  a  plain  dictate 
of  common-sense,  so  it  is  also  an  established  doctrine 
of  political  law,  that  ''states  neither  lose  any  of  their 
rights,  nor  are  discharged  from  any  of  their  obligations, 
by  a  change  in  the  form  of  their  civil  government.'''  ^ 

The  last  objection  of  any  consequence,  which  I  at 
present  recollect,  turns  upon  the  article  of  expense. 
If  it  were  even  true,  that  the  adoption  of  the  pro- 
posed government  would  occasion  a  considerable  in- 
crease of  expense,  it  would  be  an  objection  that 
ought  to  have  no  weight  against  the  plan. 

The  great  bulk  of  the  citizens  of  America  are  with 
reason  convinced,  that  Union  is  the  basis  of  their 
political  happiness.  Men  of  sense  of  all  parties  now, 
with  few  exceptions,  agree  that  it  cannot  be  pre- 
served under  the  present  system,  nor  without  radical 

'  Vide  Rutherford's  Institutes,  vol.  ii.,  book  ii,  chap,  x.,  sects,  xiv. 
and  XV.     Vide  also  Grotius,  book  ii,  chap,  ix.,  sects,  viii.  and  ix. — 

PUBLIUS. 


S3^  Alexander  Hamilton 

alterations;  that  new  and  extensive  powers  ought 
to  be  granted  to  the  national  head,  and  that  these 
require  a  different  organization  of  the  federal  gov- 
ernment— a  single  body  being  an  unsafe  depositary 
of  such  ample  authorities.  In  conceding  all  this,  the 
question  of  expense  must  be  given  up;  for  it  is  im- 
possible, with  any  degree  of  safety,  to  narrow  the 
foundation  upon  which  the  system  is  to  stand.  The 
two  branches  of  the  legislature  are,  in  the  first  in- 
stance, to  consist  of  only  sixty-five  persons,  which 
is  the  same  number  of  which  Congress,  under  the 
existing  Confederation,  may  be  composed.  It  is 
true  that  this  number  is  intended  to  be  increased; 
but  this  is  to  keep  pace  with  the  progress  of  the 
population  and  resources  of  the  country.  It  is  evi- 
dent that  a  less  number  would,  even  in  the  first  in- 
stance, have  been  unsafe,  and  that  a  continuance 
of  the  present  number  would,  in  a  more  advanced 
stage  of  population,  be  a  very  inadequate  repre- 
sentation of  the  people. 

Whence  is  the  dreaded  augmentation  of  expense 
to  spring?  One  source  indicated,  is  the  multiplica- 
tion of  offices  under  the  new  government.  Let  us 
examine  this  a  little. 

It  is  evident  that  the  principal  departments  of  the 
administration  under  the  present  government,  are 
the  same  which  will  be  required  imder  the  new. 
There  are  now  a  Secretary  of  War,  a  Secretary  of 
Foreign  Affairs,  a  Secretary  for  Domestic  Affairs,  a 
Board  of  Treasury,  consisting  of  three  persons,  a 
Treasurer,  assistants,  clerks,  etc.  These  officers  are 
indispensable  under  any  system,   and  will  suffice 


The  Federalist  333 

under  the  new  as  well  as  the  old.  As  to  ambas- 
sadors and  other  ministers  and  agents  in  foreign 
countries,  the  proposed  Constitution  can  make  no 
other  difference  than  to  render  their  characters, 
where  they  reside,  more  respectable,  and  their  serv- 
ices more  useful.  As  to  persons  to  be  employed  in 
the  collection  of  the  revenues,  it  is  unquestionably 
true  that  these  will  form  a  very  considerable  addi- 
tion to  the  number  of  federal  officers ;  but  it  will  not 
follow  that  this  will  occasion  an  increase  of  public 
expense.  It  will  be  in  most  cases  nothing  more  than 
an  exchange  of  State  for  national  officers.  In  the 
collection  of  all  duties,  for  instance,  the  persons  em- 
ployed will  be  wholly  of  the  latter  description.  The 
States  individually  will  stand  in  no  need  of  any  for 
this  purpose.  What  difference  can  it  make  in  point 
of  expense  to  pay  officers  of  the  customs  appointed 
by  the  State  or  by  the  United  States  ?  [There  is  no 
good  reason  to  suppose  that  either  the  number  or 
the  salaries  of  the  latter  will  be  greater  than  those 
of  the  former.] ' 

Where  then  are  we  to  seek  for  those  additional 
articles  of  expense  which  are  to  swell  the  account  to 
the  enormous  size  that  has  been  represented  to  us? 
The  chief  item  which  occurs  to  me  respects  the  sup- 
port of  the  judges  of  the  United  States.  I  do  not 
add  the  President,  because  there  is  now  a  president 
of  Congress,  whose  expenses  may  not  be  far,  if  any 
thing,  short  of  those  which  will  be  incurred  on 
account  of  the  President  of  the  United  States. 
The  support  of  the  judges  will  clearly  be  an  extra 

*  This  sentence  in  brackets  is  omitte^  in  the  revised  text. 


334  Alexander  Hamilton 

expense,  but  to  what  extent  will  depend  on  the 
particular  plan  which  may  be  adopted  in  regard  to 
this  matter.  But  upon  no  reasonable  plan  can  it 
amount  to  a  simi  which  will  be  an  object  of  material 
consequence. 

Let  us  now  see  what  there  is  to  counterbalance 
any  extra  expense  that  may  attend  the  establish- 
ment of  the  proposed  government.  The  first  thing 
which  presents  itself  is  that  a  great  part  of  the  busi- 
ness which  now  keeps  Congress  sitting  through  the 
year  will  be  transacted  by  the  President.  Even  the 
management  of  foreign  negotiations  will  naturally 
devolve  upon  him,  according  to  general  principles 
concerted  with  the  Senate,  and  subject  to  their  final 
concurrence.  Hence  it  is  evident  that  a  portion  of 
the  year  will  suffice  for  the  session  of  both  the  Senate 
and  the  House  of  Representatives ;  we  may  suppose 
about  a  fourth  for  the  latter  and  a  third,  or  perhaps 
half,  for  the  former.  The  extra  business  of  treaties 
and  appointments  may  give  this  extra  occupation 
to  the  Senate.  From  this  circumstance  we  may 
infer  that,  until  the  House  of  Representatives  shall 
be  increased  greatly  beyond  its  present  number, 
there  will  be  a  considerable  saving  of  expense  from  the 
difference  between  the  constant  session  of  the  present 
and  the  temporary  session  of  the  future  Congress. 

But  there  is  another  circumstance  of  great  im- 
portance in  the  view  of  economy.  The  business  of 
the  United  States  has  hitherto  occupied  the  State 
legislatures,  as  well  as  Congress.  The  latter  has 
made  requisitions  which  the  former  have  had  to 
provide  for.     Hence  it  has  happened  that  the  ses- 


The  Federalist  335 

sions  of  the  State  legislatures  have  been  protracted 
greatly  beyond  what  was  necessary  for  the  execution 
of  the  mere  local  business  of  the  States.  More  than 
half  their  time  has  been  frequently  employed  in 
matters  which  related  to  the  United  States.  Now 
the  members  who  compose  the  legislatures  of  the 
several  States  amount  to  two  thousand  and  upwards, 
which  number  has  hitherto  performed  what  under 
the  new  system  will  be  done  in  the  first  instance  by 
sixty-five  persons,  and  probably  at  no  future  period 
by  above  a  fourth  or  a  fifth  of  that  number.  The 
Congress  under  the  proposed  government  will  do  all 
the  business  of  the  United  States  themselves,  with- 
out the  intervention  of  the  State  legislatures,  who 
thenceforth  will  have  only  to  attend  to  the  affairs 
of  their  particular  States,  and  will  not  have  to  sit  in 
any  proportion  as  long  as  they  have  heretofore  done. 
This  difference  in  the  time  of  the  sessions  of  the  State 
legislatures  will  be  clear  gain,  and  will  alone  form  an 
article  of  saving,  which  may  be  regarded  as  an 
equivalent  for  any  additional  objects  of  expense 
that  may  be  occasioned  by  the  adoption  of  the  new 
system. 

The  result  from  these  observations  is  that  the 
sources  of  additional  expense  from  the  establishment 
of  the  proposed  Constitution  are  much  fewer  than 
may  have  been  imagined;  that  they  are  counter- 
balanced by  considerable  objects  of  saving;  and 
that  while  it  is  questionable  on  which  side  the  scale 
will  preponderate,  it  is  certain  that  a  government 
less  expensive  would  be  incompetent  to  the  purposes 
of  the  Union.  Publius. 


33^  Alexander  Hamilton 

From  McLean's  Edition,  New  York,  M.DCC.LXXXVIII 
THE  FEDERALIST.     No.  LXXXV 

(HAMILTON) 

To  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York: 

According  to  the  formal  division  of  the  subject  of 
these  papers,  announced  in  my  first  number,  there 
would  appear  still  to  remain  for  discussion  two 
points:  "the  analogy  of  the  proposed  government 
to  your  own  State  constitution,"  and  "  the  additional 
security  which  its  adoption  will  afford  to  republican 
government,  to  liberty,  and  to  property."  But 
these  heads  have  been  so  fully  anticipated  and  ex- 
hausted in  the  progress  of  the  work,  that  it  would 
now  scarcely  be  possible  to  do  any  thing  more  than 
repeat,  in  a  more  dilated  form,  what  has  been  here- 
tofore said,  which  the  advanced  stage  of  the  question, 
and  the  time  already  spent  upon  it,  conspire  to 
forbid. 

It  is  remarkable,  that  the  resemblance  of  the  plan 
of  the  convention  to  the  act  which  organizes  the 
government  of  this  State  holds,  not  less  with  regard 
to  many  of  the  supposed  defects,  than  to  the  real 
excellences  of  the  former.  Among  the  pretended 
defects  are  the  reeligibility  of  the  Executive,  the 
want  of  a  council,  the  omission  of  a  formal  bill  of 
rights,  the  omission  of  a  provision  respecting  the 
liberty  of  the  press.  These  and  several  others  which 
have  been  noted  in  the  course  of  our  inquiries  are  as 
much  chargeable  on  the  existing  constitution  of  this 
State,  as  on  the  one  proposed  for  the  Union;  and  a 


The  Federalist  337 

man  must  have  slender  pretensions  to  consistency, 
who  can  rail  at  the  latter  for  imperfections  which  he 
finds  no  difficulty  in  excusing  in  the  former.  Nor 
indeed  can  there  be  a  better  proof  of  the  insincerity 
and  affectation  of  some  of  the  zealous  adversaries  of 
the  plan  of  the  convention  among  us,  who  profess 
to  be  the  devoted  admirers  of  the  government  under 
which  they  live,  than  the  fury  with  which  they  have 
attacked  that  plan,  for  matters  in  regard  to  which 
our  own  constitution  is  equally  or  perhaps  more 
vulnerable. 

The  additional  securities  to  republican  govern- 
ment, to  liberty,  and  to  property,  to  be  derived  from 
the  adoption  of  the  plan  under  consideration,  con- 
sist chiefly  in  the  restraints  which  the  preservation 
of  the  Union  will  impose  on  local  factions  and  in- 
surrections, and  on  the  ambition  of  powerful  indi- 
viduals in  single  States,  who  may  acquire  credit  and 
influence  enough,  from  leaders  and  favorites,  to  be- 
come the  despots  of  the  people;  in  the  diminution 
of  the  opportunities  to  foreign  intrigue,  which  the 
dissolution  of  the  Confederacy  would  invite  and 
facilitate;  in  the  prevention  of  extensive  military 
establishments  which  could  not  fail  to  grow  out  of 
wars  between  the  States  in  a  disunited  situation ;  in 
the  express  guaranty  of  a  republican  form  of  govern- 
ment to  each;  in  the  absolute  and  universal  exclu- 
sion of  titles  of  nobility;  and  in  the  precautions 
against  the  repetition  of  those  practices  on  the  part 
of  the  State  governments  which  have  undermined 
the  foundations  of  property  and  credit,  have  planted 
mutual  distrust  in  the  breasts  of  all  classes  of  citizens, 


VOL.    XII.— 22. 


33^  Alexander  Hamilton 

and  have  occasioned  an  almost  universal  prostration 
of  morals. 

Thus  have  I,  fellow-citizens,  executed  the  task  I 
had  assigned  to  myself;  with  what  success,  your  con- 
duct must  determine.  I  trust  at  least  you  will  admit 
that  I  have  not  failed  in  the  assurance  I  gave  you 
respecting  the  spirit  with  which  my  endeavors 
should  be  conducted.  I  have  addressed  myself 
purely  to  your  judgments,  and  have  studiously 
avoided  those  asperities  which  are  too  apt  to  dis- 
grace political  disputants  of  all  parties,  and  which 
have  been  not  a  little  provoked  by  the  language  and 
conduct  of  the  opponents  of  the  Constitution.  The 
charge  of  a  conspiracy  against  the  liberties  of  the 
people,  which  has  been  indiscriminately  brought 
against  the  advocates  of  the  plan,  has  something  in 
it  too  wanton  and  too  malignant,  not  to  excite  the 
indignation  of  every  man  who  feels  in  his  own  bosom 
a  refutation  of  the  calumny.  The  perpetual  changes 
which  have  been  rung  upon  the  wealthy,  the  well- 
bom,  and  the  great,  have  been  such  as  to  inspire  the 
disgust  of  all  sensible  men.  And  the  unwarrantable 
concealments  and  misrepresentations  which  have 
been  in  various  ways  practised  to  keep  the  truth 
from  the  public  eye,  have  been  of  a  nature  to  demand 
the  reprobation  of  all  honest  men.  It  is  not  impos- 
sible that  these  circumstances  may  have  occasionally 
betrayed  me  into  intemperances  of  expression  which  I 
did  not  intend ;  it  is  certain  that  I  have  frequently  felt 
a  struggle  between  sensibility  and  moderation ;  and  if 
the  former  has  in  some  instances  prevailed,  it  must 
be  my  excuse  that  it  has  been  neither  often  nor  much. 


The  Federalist  339 

Let  us  now  pause  and  ask  ourselves  whether,  in 
the  course  of  these  papers,  the  proposed  Constitution 
has  not  been  satisfactorily  vindicated  from  the  as- 
persions thrown  upon  it;  and  whether  it  has  not 
been  shown  to  be  worthy  of  the  public  approbation, 
and  necessary  to  the  public  safety  and  prosperity. 
Every  man  is  bound  to  answer  these  questions  to 
himself,  according  to  the  best  of  his  conscience  and 
understanding,  and  to  act  agreeably  to  the  genuine 
and  sober  dictates  of  his  judgment.  This  is  a  duty 
from  which  nothing  can  give  him  a  dispensation. 
'T  is  one  that  he  is  called  upon,  nay,  constrained  by 
all  the  obligations  that  form  the  bands  of  society,  to 
discharge  sincerely  and  honestly.  No  partial  mo- 
tive, no  particular  interest,  no  pride  of  opinion,  no 
temporary  passion  or  prejudice,  will  justify  to  him- 
self, to  his  country,  or  to  his  posterity,  an  improper 
election  of  the  part  he  is  to  act.  Let  him  beware  of 
an  obstinate  adherence  to  party ;  let  him  reflect  that 
the  object  upon  which  he  is  to  decide  is  not  a  par- 
ticular interest  of  the  community,  but  the  very 
existence  of  the  nation ;  and  let  him  remember  that 
a  majority  of  America  has  already  given  its  sanction 
to  the  plan  which  he  is  to  approve  or  reject. 

I  shall  not  dissemble  that  I  feel  an  entire  con- 
fidence in  the  arguments  which  recommend  the 
proposed  system  to  your  adoption,  and  that  I  am 
unable  to  discern  any  real  force  in  those  by  which  it 
has  been  opposed.  I  am  persuaded  that  it  is  the 
best  which  our  political  situation,  habits,  and  opin- 
ions will  admit,  and  superior  to  any  the  revolution 
has  produced. 


340  Alexander  Hamilton 

Concessions  on  the  part  of  the  friends  of  the  plan, 
that  it  has  not  a  claim  to  absolute  perfection,  have 
afforded  matter  of  no  small  triumph  to  its  enemies. 
''Why,"  say  they,  ''should  we  adopt  an  imperfect 
thing?  Why  not  amend  it  and  make  it  perfect  be- 
fore it  is  irrevocably  established?"  This  may  be 
plausible  enough,  but  it  is  only  plausible.  In  the 
first  place  I  remark,  that  the  extent  of  these  conces- 
sions has  been  greatly  exaggerated.  They  have  been 
stated  as  amounting  to  an  admission  that  the  plan 
is  radically  defective,  and  that  without  material 
alterations  the  rights  and  the  interests  of  the  com- 
munity cannot  be  safely  confided  to  it.  This,  as  far 
as  I  have  understood  the  meaning  of  those  who  make 
the  concessions,  is  an  entire  perversion  of  their  sense. 
No  advocate  of  the  measure  can  be  found,  who  will 
not  declare  as  his  sentiment,  that  the  system,  though 
it  may  not  be  perfect  in  every  part,  is,  upon  the 
whole,  a  good  one;  is  the  best  that  the  present  views 
and  circumstances  of  the  country  will  permit;  and 
is  such  an  one  as  promises  every  species  of  security 
which  a  reasonable  people  can  desire. 

I  answer  in  the  next  place,  that  I  should  esteem  it 
the  extreme  of  imprudence  to  prolong  the  precarious 
state  of  our  national  affairs,  and  to  expose  the  Union 
to  the  jeopardy  of  successive  experiments,  in  the 
chimerical  pursuit  of  a  perfect  plan.  I  never  expect 
to  see  a  perfect  work  from  imperfect  man.  The  re- 
sult of  the  deliberations  of  all  collective  bodies  must 
necessarily  be  a  compound,  as  well  of  the  errors  and 
prejudices,  as  of  the  good  sense  and  wisdom,  of  the 
individuals  of  whom  they  are  composed.     The  com- 


The  Federalist  34 1 

pacts  which  are  to  embrace  thirteen  distinct  States 
in  a  common  bond  of  amity  and  union,  must  as 
necessarily  be  a  compromise  of  as  many  dissimilar 
interests  and  inclinations.  How  can  perfection 
spring  from  such  materials? 

The  reasons  assigned  in  an  excellent  little  pam- 
phlet lately  published  in  this  city,'  are  unanswerable 
to  show  the  utter  improbability  of  assembling  a  new 
convention,  under  circumstances  in  any  degree  so 
favorable  to  a  happy  issue,  as  those  in  which  the  late 
convention  met,  deliberated,  and  concluded.  I  will 
not  repeat  the  arguments  there  used,  as  I  presume 
the  production  itself  has  had  an  extensive  circula- 
tion. It  is  certainly  well  worthy  the  perusal  of  every 
friend  to  his  country.  There  is,  however,  one  point 
of  light  in  which  the  subject  of  amendments  still 
remains  to  be  considered,  and  in  which  it  has  not 
yet  been  exhibited  to  public  view.  I  cannot  resolve 
to  conclude  without  first  taking  a  survey  of  it  in  this 
aspect. 

It  appears  to  me  susceptible  of  absolute  demon- 
stration, that  it  will  be  far  more  easy  to  obtain 
subsequent  than  previous  amendments  to  the  Con- 
stitution. The  moment  an  alteration  is  made  in  the 
present  plan,  it  becomes,  to  the  purpose  of  adoption, 
a  new  one,  and  must  undergo  a  new  decision  of  each 
State.  To  its  complete  establishment  throughout 
the  Union,  it  will  therefore  require  the  concurrence 
of  thirteen  States.  If,  on  the  contrary,  the  Con- 
stitution proposed  should  once  be  ratified  by  all  the 

I  Entitled  An  Address  to  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York. — 

PUBLIUS, 


342  Alexander  Hamilton 

States  as  it  stands,  alterations  in  it  may  at  any  time 
be  effected  by  nine  States.  Here,  then,  the  chances 
are  as  thirteen  to  nine '  in  favor  of  subsequent  amend- 
ment, rather  than  of  the  original  adoption  of  an 
entire  system. 

This  is  not  all.  Every  Constitution  for  the  United 
States  must  inevitably  consist  of  a  great  variety  of 
particulars,  in  which  thirteen  independent  States  are 
to  be  accommodated  in  their  interests  or  opinions  of 
interest.  We  may  of  course  expect  to  see,  in  any 
body  of  men  charged  with  its  original  formation, 
very  different  combinations  of  the  parts  upon  differ- 
ent points.  Many  of  those  who  form  a  majority  on 
one  question,  may  become  the  minority  on  a  second, 
and  an  association  dissimilar  to  either  may  consti- 
tute the  majority  on  a  third.  Hence  the  necessity 
of  moulding  and  arranging  all  the  particulars  which 
are  to  compose  the  whole,  in  such  a  manner  as  to 
satisfy  all  the  parties  to  the  compact ;  and  hence,  also 
an  immense  multiplication  of  difficulties  and  casual- 
ties in  obtaining  the  collective  assent  to  a  final  act. 
The  degree  of  that  multiplication  must  evidently  be 
in  a  ratio  to  the  number  of  particulars  and  the  num- 
ber of  parties. 

But  every  amendment  to  the  Constitution,  if  once 
established,  would  be  a  single  proposition,  and  might 
be  brought  forward  singly.  There  would  then  be 
no  necessity  for  management  or  compromise,  in  re- 
lation to  any  other  point — no  giving  nor  taking.  The 
will  of  the  requisite  number  would  at  once  bring 

'  It  may  rather  be  said  ten,  for  though  two  thirds  may  set  on  foot 
the  measure,  three  fourths  must  ratify. — Publius, 


The  Federalist  343 

the  matter  to  a  decisive  issue.  And  consequently, 
whenever  nine,  or  rather  ten  States,  were  united  in  the 
desire  of  a  particular  amendment,  that  amendment 
must  infallibly  take  place.  There  can,  therefore, 
be  no  comparison  between  the  facility  of  affecting 
an  amendment,  and  that  of  establishing  in  the  first 
instance  a  complete  Constitution. 

In  opposition  to  the  probability  of  subsequent 
amendments,  it  has  been  urged  that  the  persons  dele- 
gated to  the  administration  of  the  national  gov- 
ernment will  always  be  disinclined  to  yield  up  any 
portion  of  the  authority  of  which  they  were  once  pos- 
sessed. For  my  own  part,  I  acknowledge  a  thorough 
conviction  that  any  amendments  which  may,  upon 
mature  consideration,  be  thought  useful,  will  be  ap- 
plicable to  the  organization  of  the  government,  not 
to  the  mass  of  its  powers ;  and  on  this  account  alone, 
I  think  there  is  no  weight  in  the  observation  just 
stated.  I  also  think  there  is  little  weight  in  it  on 
another  account.  The  intrinsic  difficulty  of  govern- 
ing thirteen  States  at  any  rate,  independent  of  calcu- 
lations upon  an  ordinary  degree  of  public  spirit  and 
integrity,  will,  in  my  opinion,  constantly  impose  on 
the  national  rulers  the  necessity  of  a  spirit  of  accom- 
modation to  the  reasonable  expectations  of  their 
constituents.  But  there  is  yet  a  further  considera- 
tion, which  proves  beyond  the  possibility  of  a  doubt, 
that  the  observation  is  futile.  It  is  this,  that  the 
national  rulers,  whenever  nine  States  concur,  will 
have  no  option  upon  the  subject.  By  the  fifth  ar- 
ticle of  the  plan,  the  Congress  will  be  obliged  "on 
the  application  of  the  legislatures  of  two  thirds  of 


344  Alexander  Hamilton 

the  States  [which  at  present  amount  to  nine],  to  call 
a  convention  for  proposing  amendments,  which  shall 
be  valid,  to  all  intents  and  purposes,  as  part  of  the 
Constitution,  when  ratified  by  the  legislatures  of 
three  fourths  of  the  States,  or  by  conventions  in  three 
fourths  thereof."  The  words  of  this  article  are 
peremptory.  The  Congress  ''  shall  call  a  conven- 
tion." Nothing  in  this  particular  is  left  to  the  dis- 
cretion of  that  body.  And  of  consequence,  all  the 
declamation  about  the  disinclination  to  a  change 
vanishes  in  air.  Nor  however  difficult  it  may  be 
supposed  to  unite  two  thirds  or  three  fourths  of  the 
State  legislatures,  in  amendments  which  may  affect 
local  interests,  can  there  be  any  room  to  apprehend 
any  such  difficulty  in  a  union  on  points  which  are 
merely  relative  to  the  general  liberty  or  security  of 
the  people.  We  may  safely  rely  on  the  disposition 
of  the  State  legislatures  to  erect  barriers  against  the 
encroachments  of  the  national  authority. 

If  the  foregoing  argument  is  a  fallacy,  certain  it  is 
that  I  am  myself  deceived  by  it,  for  it  is,  in  my 
conception,  one  of  those  rare  instances  in  which  a 
political  truth  can  be  brought  to  the  test  of  a  mathe- 
matical demonstration.  Those  who  see  the  matter 
in  the  same  light  with  me,  however  zealous  they  may 
be  for  amendments,  must  agree  in  the  propriety  of 
a  previous  adoption,  as  the  most  direct  road  to  their 
own  object. 

The  zeal  for  attempts  to  amend,  prior  to  the  es- 
tablishment of  the  Constitution,  must  abate  in  every 
man  who  is  ready  to  accede  to  the  truth  of  the  fol- 
lowing observations  of  a  writer  equally  solid  and 


The  Federalist  345 

ingenious:  ''To  balance  a  large  state  or  society 
[says  he],  whether  monarchical  or  republican,  on 
general  laws,  is  a  work  of  so  great  difficulty,  that  no 
human  genius,  however  comprehensive,  is  able,  by 
the  mere  dint  of  reason  and  reflection,  to  effect  it. 
The  judgments  of  many  must  unite  in  the  work ;  ex- 
perience must  guide  their  labor ;  time  must  bring  it 
to  perfection,  and  the  feeling  of  inconveniences  must 
correct  the  mistakes  which  they  inevitably  fall  into 
in  their  first  trials  and  experiments."  '  These  judi- 
cious reflections  contain  a  lesson  of  moderation  to 
all  the  sincere  lovers  of  the  Union,  and  ought  to  put 
them  upon  their  guard  against  hazarding  anarchy, 
civil  war,  a  perpetual  alienation  of  the  States  from 
each  other,  and  perhaps  the  military  despotism  of  a 
victorious  demagogue,  in  the  pursuit  of  what  they 
are  not  likely  to  obtain,  but  from  time  and  experi- 
ence. It  may  be  in  me  a  defect  of  political  fortitude, 
but  I  acknowledge  that  I  cannot  entertain  an  equal 
tranquillity  with  those  who  affect  to  treat  the  dan- 
gers of  a  longer  continuance  in  our  present  situation 
as  imaginary.  A  nation,  without  a  national  govern- 
ment, is,  in  my  view,  an  awful  spectacle.  The  estab- 
lishment of  a  Constitution,  in  time  of  profound 
peace,  by  the  voluntary  consent  of  a  whole  people,  is 
a  prodigy,  to  the  completion  of  which  I  look  forward 
with  trembling  anxiety.  I  can  reconcile  it  to  no 
rules  of  prudence  to  let  go  the  hold  we  now  have, 
in  so  arduous  an  enterprise,  upon  seven  out  of  the 
thirteen    States,  and    after   having   passed  over  so 

^  Hume's  Essays,  vol.  i.,  page  128:  "The  Rise  of  Arts  and  Sciences." 

PUBLIUS. 


34^  Alexander  Hamilton 

considerable  a  part  of  the  ground,  to  recommence 
the  course.  I  dread  the  more  the  consequences  of 
new  attempts,  because  I  know  that  powerful  individ- 
uals, in  this  and  in  other  States,  are  enemies  to  a  gen- 
eral national  government  in  every  possible  shape. 

PUBLIUS. 


APPENDIX 


347 


ARTICLES  OF  CONFEDERATION 


ARTICLES  of  Confederation  and  perpetual  Union 
between  the  States  of  New  Hampshire, 
Massachusetts  Bay,  Rhode  Island  and  Providence 
Plantations,  Connecticut,  New  York,  New  Jersey, 
Pennsylvania,  Delaware,  Maryland,  Virginia,  North 
Carolina,  South  Carolina,  and  Georgia. 

Article  I.  The  style  of  this  Confederacy  shall  be 
"The  United  States  of  America." 

Art.  II.  Each  State  retains  its  sovereignty,  free- 
dom, and  independence,  and  every  power,  jurisdic- 
tion and  right,  which  is  not  by  this  Confederation 
expressly  delegated  to  the  United  States  in  Congress 
assembled. 

Art.  III.  The  said  States  hereby  severally  enter 
into  a  firm  league  of  friendship  with  each  other,  for 
their  common  defence,  the  security  of  their  liberties, 
and  their  mutual  and  general  welfare,  binding  them- 
selves to  assist  each  other  against  all  force  offered  to, 
or  attacks  made  upon  them,  or  any  of  them,  on  ac- 
count of  religion,  sovereignty,  trade,  or  any  other 
pretence  whatever. 

Art.  IV.  The  better  to  secure  and  perpetuate 
mutual  friendship  and  intercourse  among  the  people 
of  the  different  States  in  this  Union,  the  free  inhabit- 

349 


350  Alexander  Hamilton 

ants  of  each  of  these  States,  paupers,  vagabonds,  and 
fugitives  from  justice  excepted,  shall  be  entitled  to 
all  the  privileges  and  immunities  of  free  citizens  in 
the  several  States,  and  the  people  of  each  State  shall 
have  free  ingress  and  regress  to  and  from  any  other 
State,  and  shall  enjoy  therein  all  the  privileges  of 
trade  and  commerce,  subject  to  the  same  duties,  im- 
positions, and  restrictions  as  the  inhabitants  thereof 
respectively,  provided  that  such  restrictions  shall 
not  extend  so  far  as  to  prevent  the  removal  of  prop- 
erty imported  into  any  State,  to  any  other  State  of 
which  the  owner  is  an  inhabitant;  provided  also, 
that  no  imposition,  duties,  or  restriction  shall  be 
laid  by  any  State,  on  the  property  of  the  United 
States,  or  either  of  them. 

If  any  person  guilty  of  or  charged  with  treason, 
felony,  or  other  high  misdemeanor  in  any  State, 
shall  flee  from  justice,  and  be  found  in  any  of  the 
United  States,  he  shall,  upon  demand  of  the  governor 
or  executive  power  of  the  State  from  which  he  fled, 
be  delivered  up  and  removed  to  the  State  having 
jurisdiction  of  his  offence. 

Full  faith  and  credit  shall  be  given  in  each  of 
these  States  to  the  records,  acts,  and  judicial  pro- 
ceedings of  the  courts  and  magistrates  of  every  other 
State. 

Art.  V.  For  the  more  convenient  management 
of  the  general  interests  of  the  United  States,  dele- 
gates shall  be  annually  appointed  in  such  manner  as 
the  legislature  of  each  State  shall  direct,  to  meet  in 
Congress  on  the  first  Monday  in  November,  in  every 
year,  with  a  power  reserved  to  each  State  to  recall 


The  Federalist  35 1 

its  delegates,  or  any  of  them,  at  any  time  within  the 
year,  and  to  send  others  in  their  stead,  for  the  re- 
mainder of  the  year. 

No  State  shall  be  represented  in  Congress  by  less 
than  two,  nor  by  more  than  seven  members;  and  no 
person  shall  be  capable  of  being  a  delegate  for  more 
than  three  years  in  any  term  of  six  years,  nor  shall 
any  person,  being  a  delegate,  be  capable  of  holding 
any  office  under  the  United  States  for  which  he  or 
another  for  his  benefit  receives  any  salary,  fees,  or 
emolument  of  any  kind. 

Each  State  shall  maintain  its  own  delegates  in  a 
meeting  of  the  States,  and  while  they  act  as  members 
of  the  committee  of  the  States. 

In  determining  questions  in  the  United  States,  in 
Congress  assembled,  each  State  shall  have  one  vote. 

Freedom  of  speech  and  debate  in  Congress  shall 
not  be  impeached  or  questioned  in  any  court  or  place 
out  of  Congress,  and  the  members  of  Congress  shall 
be  protected  in  their  persons  from  arrests  and  im- 
prisonments, during  the  time  of  their  going  to  or 
from,  and  attendance  on.  Congress,  except  for  trea- 
son, felony,  or  breach  of  the  peace. 

Art.  VI.  No  State,  without  the  consent  of  the 
United  States  in  Congress  assembled,  shall  send  any 
embassy  to,  or  receive  any  embassy  from,  or  enter 
into  any  conference,  agreeme:nt,  alliance,  or  treaty 
with,  any  king,  prince,  or  state;  nor  shall  any  person 
holding  any  office  of  profit  or  trust  under  the  United 
States,  or  any  of  them,  accept  of  any  present,  emolu- 
ment, office,  or  title  of  any  kind  whatever  from  any 
king,  prince,  or  foreign  state;   nor  shall  the  United 


352  Alexander  Hamilton 

States  in  Congress  assembled,  or  any  of  them,  grant 
any  title  of  nobility. 

No  two  or  more  States  shall  enter  into  any  treaty, 
confederation,  or  alliance  whatever  between  them, 
without  the  consent  of  the  United  States  in  Con- 
gress assembled,  specifying  accurately  the  purposes 
for  which  the  same  is  to  be  entered  into,  and  how 
long  it  shall  continue. 

No  State  shall  lay  any  imposts  or  duties,  which 
may  interfere  with  any  stipulations  in  treaties  en- 
tered into  by  the  United  States  in  Congress  assem- 
bled, with  any  king,  prince,  or  state,  in  pursuance 
of  any  treaties  already  proposed  by  Congress,  to  the 
courts  of  France  and  Spain. 

No  vessels  of  war  shall  be  kept  up  in  time  of  peace 
by  any  State,  except  such  number  only  as  shall  be 
deemed  necessary  by  the  United  States  in  Congress 
assembled,  for  the  defence  of  such  State  or  its  trade ; 
nor  shall  any  body  of  forces  be  kept  up  by  any  State, 
in  time  of  peace,  except  such  number  only  as  in  the 
judgment  of  the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled 
shall  be  deemed  requisite  to  garrison  the  forts  neces- 
sary for  the  defence  of  such  State;  but  every  State 
shall  always  keep  up  a  well  regulated  and  disciplined 
militia,  sufficiently  armed  and  accoutred,  and  shall 
provide  and  constantly  have  ready  for  use,  in  public 
stores,  a  due  number  of  field-pieces  and  tents,  and  a 
proper  quantity  of  arms,  ammunition,  and  camp 
equipage. 

No  State  shall  engage  in  any  war  without  the  con- 
sent of  the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled,  un- 
less such  State  be  actually  invaded  by  enemies,  or 


The  Federalist  353 

shall  have  received  certain  advice  of  a  resolution 
being  formed  by  some  nation  of  Indians  to  invade 
such  State,  and  the  danger  is  so  imminent  as  not  to 
admit  of  a  delay  till  the  United  States  in  Congress 
assembled  can  be  consulted;  nor  shall  any  State 
grant  commissions  to  any  ships  or  vessels  of  war, 
nor  letters  of  marque  or  reprisal,  except  it  be  after  a 
declaration  of  war  by  the  United  States  in  Congress 
assembled,  and  then  only  against  the  kingdom,  or 
state,  and  the  subjects  thereof,  against  which  war 
has  been  so  declared,  and  under  such  regulations  as 
shall  be  established  by  the  United  States  in  Con- 
gress assembled,  unless  such  State  be  infested  by 
pirates,  in  which  case  vessels  of  war  may  be  fitted 
out  for  that  occasion,  and  kept  so  long  as  the  danger 
shall  continue,  or  until  the  United  States  in  Congress 
assembled  shall  determine  otherwise. 

Art.  VII.  When  land  forces  are  raised  by  any 
State  for  the  common  defence,  all  officers  of  or  under 
the  rank  of  colonel  shall  be  appointed  by  the  legisla- 
ture of  each  State  respectively,  by  whom  such  forces 
shall  be  raised,  or  in  such  manner  as  such  State  shall 
direct;  and  all  vacancies  shall  be  filled  up  by  the 
State  which  first  made  the  appointment. 

Art.  VIII.  All  charges  of  war  and  all  other  ex- 
penses that  shall  be  incurred^  for  the  common  de- 
fence or  general  welfare,  and  allowed  by  the  United 
States  in  Congress  assembled,  shall  be  defrayed  out 
of  a  common  treasury,  which  shall  be  supplied  by 
the  several  States,  in  proportion  to  the  value  of  all 
land  within  each  State,  granted  to  or  surveyed  for 
any  person,  and  such  land  and  the  buildings  and 

VOL.  XII,— 23. 


354  Alexander  Hamilton 

improvements  thereon  shall  be  estimated  according 
to  such  mode  as  the  United  States  in  Congress  as- 
sembled shall  from  time  to  time  direct  and  appoint. 

The  taxes  for  paying  that  proportion  shall  be  laid 
and  levied  by  the  authority  and  direction  of  the 
legislatures  of  the  several  States  within  the  time 
agreed  upon  by  the  United  States  in  Congress 
assembled. 

Art.  IX.  The  United  States  in  Congress  assem- 
bled shall  have  the  sole  and  exclusive  right  and 
power  of  determining  on  peace  and  war,  except  in 
the  cases  mentioned  in  the  sixth  article — of  sending 
and  receiving  ambassadors — entering  into  treaties 
and  alliances,  provided  that  no  treaty  of  commerce 
shall  be  made  whereby  the  legislative  power  of  the 
respective  States  shall  be  restrained  from  imposing 
such  imposts  and  duties  on  foreigners  as  their  own 
people  are  subjected  to,  or  from  prohibiting  the  ex- 
portation or  importation  of  any  species  of  goods  or 
commodities  whatsoever — of  establishing  rules  for 
deciding,  in  all  cases,  what  captures  on  land  or  water 
shall  be  legal,  and  in  what  manner  prizes  taken  by 
land  or  naval  forces  in  the  service  of  the  United 
States  shall  be  divided  or  appropriated — of  granting 
letters  of  marque  and  reprisal  in  times  of  peace — 
appointing  courts  for  the  trial  of  piracies  and  felonies 
committed  on  the  high  seas,  and  establishing  courts 
for  receiving  and  determining  finally  appeals  in  all 
cases  of  captures,  provided  that  no  member  of  Con- 
gress shall  be  appointed  a  judge  of  any  of  the  said 
courts. 

The  United  States  in  Congress  assembled  shall 


The  Federalist  355 

also  be  the  last  resort  on  appeal  in  all  disputes  and 
differences  now  subsisting  or  that  hereafter  raay 
arise  between  two  or  more  States  concerning  bound- 
ary, jurisdiction,  or  any  other  cause  whatever;  which 
authority  shall  always  be  exercised  in  the  manner 
following: — Whenever  the  legislative  or  executive 
authority  or  lawful  agent  of  any  State  in  controversy 
with  another  shall  present  a  petition  to  Congress 
stating  the  matter  in  question  and  praying  for  a 
hearing,  notice  thereof  shall  be  given  by  order  of 
Congress  to  the  legislative  or  executive  authority  of 
the  other  State  in  controversy,  and  a  day  assigned 
for  the  appearance  of  the  parties  by  their  lawful 
agents,  who  shall  then  be  directed  to  appoint,  by 
joint  consent,  commissioners  or  judges  to  constitute 
a  court  for  hearing  and  determining  the  matter  in 
question;  but  if  they  cannot  agree.  Congress  shall 
name  three  persons  out  of  each  of  the  United  States, 
and  from  the  list  of  such  persons  each  party  shall  al- 
ternately strike  out  one,  the  petitioners  beginning, 
until  the  number  shall  be  reduced  to  thirteen;  and 
from  that  number  not  less  than  seven  nor  more  than 
nine  names,  as  Congress  shall  direct,  shall,  in  the 
presence  of  Congress,  be  drawn  out  by  lot,  and  the 
persons  whose  names  shall  be  so  drawn,  or  any  five 
of  them,  shall  be  commissioners  or  judges,  to  hear 
and  finally  determine  the  controversy,  so  always  as 
a  major  part  of  the  judges  who  shall  hear  the  cause 
shall  agree  in  the  determination ;  and  if  either  party 
shall  neglect  to  attend  at  the  day  appointed,  without 
showing  reasons,  which  Congress  shall  judge  suffi- 
cient, or,  being  present,  shall  refuse  to  strike,  the 


35^  Alexander  Hamilton 

Congress  shall  proceed  to  nominate  three  persons 
out  of  each  State,  and  the  Secretary  of  Congress 
shall  strike  in  behalf  of  such  party  absent  or  refusing ; 
and  the  judgment  and  sentence  of  the  court  to  be 
appointed,  in  the  manner  before  prescribed,  shall  be 
final  and  conclusive;  and  if  any  of  the  parties  shall  [ 
refuse  to  submit  to  the  authority  of  such  court,  or  ,^ 
to  appear  or  defend  their  claim  or  cause,  the  court 
shall  nevertheless  proceed  to  pronounce  sentence  or 
judgment,  which  shall  in  like  manner  be  final  and 
decisive,  the  judgment  or  sentence  and  other  pro- 
ceedings being  in  either  case  transmitted  to  Con- 
gress, and  lodged  among  the  acts  of  Congress  for  the 
security  of  the  parties  concerned:  provided  that 
every  commissioner,  before  he  sits  in  judgment,  shall 
take  an  oath,  to  be  administered  by  one  of  the  judges 
of  the  Supreme  or  Superior  Court  of  the  State  where 
the  cause  shall  be  tried,  ''well  and  truly  to  hear  and 
determine  the  matter  in  question  according  to  the  best 
of  his  judgment,  without  favor,  affection,  or  hope  of 
reward,''  provided  also  that  no  State  shall  be  deprived 
of  territory  for  the  benefit  of  the  United  States. 

All  controversies  concerning  the  private  right  of 
soil,  claimed  under  different  grants  of  two  or  more 
States,  whose  jurisdictions  as  they  may  respect  such 
lands  and  the  States  which  passed  such  grants  are 
adjusted,  the  said  grants  or  either  of  them  being  at 
the  same  time  claimed  to  have  originated  antecedent 
to  such  settlement  of  jurisdiction,  shall,  on  the  peti- 
tion of  either  party  to  the  Congress  of  the  United 
States,  be  finally  determined  as  near  as  may  be  in 
the  same  manner  as  is  before  prescribed  for  deciding 


The  Federalist  357 

disputes  respecting  territorial  jurisdiction  between 
different  States. 

The  United  States  in  Congress  assembled  shall 
also  have  the  sole  and  exclusive  right  and  power  of 
regulating  the  alloy  and  value  of  coin  struck  by 
their  own  authority,  or  by  that  of  the  respective 
States — fixing  the  standard  of  weights  and  measures 
throughout  the  United  States — regulating  the  trade 
and  managing  all  affairs  with  the  Indians,  not  mem- 
bers of  any  of  the  States,  provided  that  the  legis- 
lative right  of  any  State  within  its  own  limits  be 
not  infringed  or  violated — establishing  and  regulating 
post-offices  from  one  State  to  another,  throughout 
all  the  United  States,  and  exacting  such  postage  on 
the  papers  passing  through  the  same  as  may  be  re- 
quisite to  defray  the  expenses  of  the  said  office — 
appointing  all  officers  of  the  land  forces  in  the  service 
of  the  United  States,  excepting  regimental  officers — 
appointing  all  the  officers  of  the  naval  forces,  and 
commissioning  all  officers  whatever  in  the  service  of 
the  United  States — making  rules  for  the  government 
and  regulation  of  the  said  land  and  naval  forces,  and 
directing  their  operations. 

The  United  States  in  Congress  assembled  shall 
have  authority  to  appoint  a  committee,  to  sit  in  the 
recess  of  Congress,  to  be  denominated  ''  A  Committee 
of  the  States,"  and  to  consist  of  one  delegate  from 
each  State;  to  appoint  such  other  committees  and 
civil  officers  as  may  be  necessary  for  managing  the 
general  affairs  of  the  United  States  under  their 
direction;  and  to  appoint  one  of  their  number  to 
preside,  provided  that  no  person  be  allowed  to  serve 


35^  Alexander  Hamilton 

in  the  office  of  president  more  than  one  year  in  any 
term  of  three  years — to  ascertain  the  necessary  sums 
of  money  to  be  raised  for  the  service  of  the  United 
States,  and  to  appropriate  and  apply  the  same  for 
defraying  the  pubhc  expenses — to  borrow  money,  or 
emit  bills  on  the  credit  of  the  United  States,  trans- 
mitting every  half-year  to  the  respective  States  an 
account  of  the  sums  of  money  so  borrowed  or 
emitted — to  build  and  equip  a  navy — to  agree  upon 
the  number  of  land  forces,  and  to  make  requisitions 
from  each  State  for  its  quota,  in  proportion  to  the 
number  of  white  inhabitants  in  such  State;  which 
requisition  shall  be  binding,  and  thereupon  the 
legislature  of  each  State  shall  appoint  the  regimental 
officers,  raise  the  men,  and  clothe,  arm,  and  equip 
them  in  a  soldier-like  manner,  at  the  expense  of  the 
United  States,  and  the  officers  and  men  so  clothed, 
armed,  and  equipped  shall  march  to  the  place  ap- 
pointed, and  within  the  time  agreed  on  by  the  United 
States  in  Congress  assembled;  but  if  the  United 
States  in  Congress  assembled  shall,  on  consideration 
of  circumstances,  judge  proper  that  any  State  should 
not  raise  men,  or  should  raise  a  smaller  nimiber  than 
its  quota,  and  that  any  other  State  should  raise  a 
greater  number  of  men  than  the  quota  thereof,  such 
extra  number  shall  be  raised,  officered,  clothed, 
armed,  and  equipped  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
quota  of  such  State,  unless  the  legislature  of  such 
State  shall  judge  that  such  extra  nimiber  cannot  be 
safely  spared  out  of  the  same,  in  which  case  they 
shall  raise,  officer,  clothe,  arm,  and  equip  as  many 
of  such  extra  number  as  they  judge  can  be  safely 


The  Federalist  359 

spared:  and  the  officers  and  men,  so  clothed,  armed, 
and  equipped  shall  march  to  the  place  appointed, 
and  within  the  time  agreed  on,  by  the  United  States 
in  Congress  assembled. 

The  United  States  in  Congress  assembled  shall 
never  engage  in  a  war,  nor  grant  letters  of  marque, 
and  reprisal  in  time  of  peace,  nor  enter  into  any 
treaties  or  alliances,  nor  coin  money,  nor  regulate  the 
value  thereof,  nor  ascertain  the  sums  and  expenses 
necessary  for  the  defence  and  welfare  of  the  United 
States,  or  any  of  them,  nor  emit  bills,  nor  borrow 
money  on  the  credit  of  the  United  States,  nor  ap- 
propriate money,  nor  agree  upon  the  nimiber  of 
vessels  of  war  to  be  built  or  purchased,  or  the  nimi- 
ber of  land  or  sea  forces  to  be  raised,  nor  appoint  a 
commander-in-chief  of  the  army  or  navy,  unless 
nine  States  assent  to  the  same;  nor  shall  a  question 
on  any  other  point,  except  for  adjourning  from  day 
to  day,  be  determined,  unless  by  the  votes  of  a 
majority  of  the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled. 

The  Congress  of  the  United  States  shall  have  power 
to  adjourn  to  any  time  within  the  year,  and  to  any 
place  within  the  United  States,  so  that  no  period  of 
adjournment  be  for  a  longer  duration  than  the  space 
of  six  months,  and  shall  publish  the  journal  of  their 
proceedings  monthly,  except  such  parts  thereof  re- 
lating to  treaties,  alliances,  or  military  operations, 
as  in  their  judgment  require  secrecy,  and  the  yeas 
and  nays  of  the  delegates  of  each  State  on  any  ques- 
tion shall  be  entered  on  the  journal,  when  it  is  de- 
sired by  any  delegate ;  and  the  delegates  of  a  State, 
or  any  of  them,  at  his  or  their  request,  shall  be  fur- 


360  Alexander  Hamilton 

nished  with  a  transcript  of  the  said  journal,  except 
such  parts  as  are  above  excepted,  to  lay  before  the 
legislatures  of  the  several  States. 

Art.  X.  The  Committee  of  the  States,  or  any  nine 
of  them,  shall  be  authorized  to  execute,  in  the  recess 
of  Congress,  such  of  the  powers  of  Congress  as  the 
United  States  in  Congress  assembled,  by  the  consent 
of  nine  States,  shall  from  time  to  time  think  expe- 
dient to  vest  them  with :  provided  that  no  power  be 
delegated  to  the  said  Committee,  for  the  exercise  of 
which,  by  the  Articles  of  Confederation,  the  voice  of 
nine  States  in  the  Congress  of  the  United  States  as- 
sembled is  requisite. 

Art.  XI.  Canada,  acceding  to  this  Confederation, 
and  joining  in  the  measures  of  the  United  States, 
shall  be  admitted  into  and  entitled  to  all  the  advan- 
tages of  this  Union;  but  no  other  colony  shall  be 
admitted  into  the  same,  unless  such  admission  be 
agreed  to  by  nine  States. 

Art.  XII.  All  bills  of  credit  emitted,  moneys 
borrowed,  and  debts  contracted  by  or  under  the 
authority  of  Congress,  before  the  assembling  of  the 
United  States  in  pursuance  of  the  present  Confedera- 
tion, shall  be  deemed  and  considered  as  a  charge 
against  the  United  States,  for  payment  and  satisfac- 
tion whereof  the  said  United  States  and  the  public 
faith  are  hereby  solemnly  pledged. 

Art.  XIII.  Every  State  shall  abide  by  the  deter- 
minations of  the  United  States  in  Congress  assem- 
bled, on  all  questions  which  by  this  Confederation  are 
submitted  to  them.  And  the  Articles  of  this  Con- 
federation shall  be  inviolably  observed  by  every 


The  Federalist  361 

State,  and  the  Union  shall  be  perpetual;  nor  shall 
any  alteration  at  any  time  hereafter  be  made  in  any 
of  them,  unless  such  alteration  be  agreed  to  in  a 
Congress  of  the  United  States,  and  be  afterwards 
confirmed  by  the  legislatures  of  every  State. 

And  whereas  it  hath  pleased  the  Great  Governor 
of  the  world  to  incline  the  hearts  of  the  legislatures 
we  respectively  represent  in  Congress  to  approve  of 
and  to  authorize  us  to  ratify  the  said  Articles  of  Con- 
federation and  perpetual  Union,  Know  ye,  That  we, 
the  undersigned  delegates,  by  virtue  of  the  power 
and  authority  to  us  given  for  that  purpose,  do  by 
these  presents,  in  the  name  and  in  behalf  of  our  re- 
spective constituents,  fully  and  entirely  ratify  and 
confirm  each  and  every  of  the  said  Articles  of  Con- 
federation and  perpetual  Union,  and  all  and  singular 
the  matters  and  things  therein  contained:  and  we 
do  further  solemnly  plight  and  engage  the  faith  of 
our  respective  constituents  that  they  shall  abide  by 
the  determinations  of  the  United  States  in  Congress 
assembled,  on  all  questions  which  by  the  said  Con- 
federation are  submitted  to  them.  And  that  the 
Articles  thereof  shall  be  inviolably  observed  by  the 
States  we  respectively  represent,  and  the  Union  shall 
be  perpetual. 


THE  FEDERAL  CONSTITUTION 

AS    AGREED    UPON 

BY  THE  CONVENTION 

September  17,  1787 


TKHe,  tbe  IPeople  of  the  United  States,  in  order  to  form 
a  more  perfect  Union,  establish  Justice,  insure 
domestic  Tranquillity,  provide  for  the  common 
Defence,  promote  the  general  Welfare,  and  secure 
the  Blessings  of  Liberty  to  ourselves  and  our  pos- 
terity, do  ordain  and  establish  this  CONSTITU- 
TION for  the  United  States  of  America. 

ARTICLE   I 

Section  i.  All  legislative  powers  herein  granted 
shall  be  vested  in  a  Congress  of  the  United  States, 
which  shall  consist  of  a  Senate  and  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives. 

Sect.  2.  The  House  of  Representatives  shall  be 
composed  of  members  chosen  every  second  year  by 
the  people  of  the  several  States,  and  the  electors  in 
each  State  shall  have  the  qualifications  requisite  for 
the  electors  of  most  nimierous  branch  of  the  State 
legislature. 

362 


The  Federalist  363 

No  person  shall  be  a  representative  who  shall  not 
have  attained  to  the  age  of  twenty-five  years,  and 
been  seven  years  a  citizen  of  the  United  States,  and 
who  shall  not,  when  elected,  be  an  inhabitant  of 
that  State  in  which  he  shall  be  chosen. 

Representatives  and  direct  taxes  shall  be  appor- 
tioned among  the  several  States  which  may  be 
included  within  this  Union,  according  to  their  respec- 
tive numbers,  which  shall  be  determined  by  adding 
to  the  whole  number  of  free  persons,  including  those 
bound  to  service  for  a  term  of  years,  and  excluding 
Indians  not  taxed,  three  fifths  of  all  other  persons. 
The  actual  enumeration  shall  be  made  within  three 
years  after  the  first  meeting  of  the  Congress  of  the 
United  States,  and  within  every  subsequent  term  of 
ten  years,  in  such  manner  as  they  shall  by  law  direct. 
The  number  of  representatives  shall  not  exceed  one 
for  every  thirty  thousand,  but  each  State  shall  have 
at  least  one  representative ;  and  until  such  enumera- 
tion shall  be  made,  the  State  of  New  Hampshire  shall 
be  entitled  to  choose  three,  Massachusetts  eight, 
Rhode  Island  and  Providence  Plantations  one,  Con- 
necticut five.  New  York  six.  New  Jersey  four,  Penn- 
sylvania eight,  Delaware  one,  Maryland  six,  Virginia 
ten.  North  Carolina  five.  South  Carolina  five,  and 
Georgia  three. 

When  vacancies  happen  in  the  representation 
from  any  State,  the  executive  authority  thereof 
shall  issue  writs  of  election  to  fill  such  vacancies. 

The  House  of  Representatives  shall  choose  their 
Speaker  and  other  officers;  and  shall  have  the  sole 
power  of  impeachment. 


364  Alexander  Hamilton 

Sect.  3.  The  Senate  of  the  United  States  shall  be 
composed  of  two  senators  from  each  State,  chosen 
by  the  legislature  thereof,  for  six  years;  and  each 
senator  shall  have  one  vote. 

Immediately  after  they  shall  be  assembled  in  con- 
sequence of  the  first  election,  they  shall  be  divided 
as  equally  as  may  be  into  three  classes.  The  seats 
of  the  senators  of  the  first  class  shall  be  vacated  at 
the  expiration  of  the  second  year,  the  second  class  at 
the  expiration  of  the  fourth  year  and  the  third  class 
at  the  expiration  of  the  sixth  year,  so  that  one  third 
may  be  chosen  every  second  year ;  and  if  vacancies 
happen,  by  resignation  or  otherwise,  during  the  re- 
cess of  the  legislature  of  any  State,  the  Executive 
thereof  may  make  temporary  appointments  until 
the  next  meeting  of  the  legislature,  which  shall  then 
fill  such  vacancies. 

No  person  shall  be  a  senator  who  shall  not  have 
attained  to  the  age  of  thirty  years,  and  been  nine 
years  a  citizen  of  the  United  States,  and  who  shall 
not,  when  elected,  be  an  inhabitant  of  that  State  for 
which  he  shall  be  chosen. 

The  Vice-President  of  the  United  States  shall  be 
president  of  the  Senate,  but  shall  have  no  vote,  un- 
less they  be  equally  divided. 

The  Senate  shall  choose  their  other  officers,  and 
also  a  president  pro  tempore,  in  the  absence  of  the 
Vice-President,  or  when  he  shall  exercise  the  office 
of  President  of  the  United  States. 

The  Senate  shall  have  the  sole  power  to  try  all  im- 
peachments. When  sitting  for  that  purpose  they 
shall  be  on  oath  or  affirmation.     When  the  President 


The  Federalist  365 

of  the  United  States  is  tried,  the  Chief- Justice  shall 
preside.  And  no  person  shall  be  convicted  without 
the  concurrence  of  two  thirds  of  the  members  present. 

Judgment  in  cases  of  impeachment  shall  not  ex- 
tend further  than  to  removal  from  office,  and  dis- 
qualification to  hold  and  enjoy  any  office  of  honor, 
trust,  or  profit  under  the  United  States;  but  the 
party  convicted  shall,  nevertheless,  be  liable  and 
subject  to  mdictment,  trial,  judgment,  and  punish- 
ment, according  to  law. 

Sect.  4.  The  times,  places,  and  manner  of  hold- 
ing elections  for  senators  and  representatives  shall 
be  prescribed  in  each  State  by  the  legislature  thereof ; 
but  the  Congress  may  at  any  time  by  law  make  or 
alter  such  regulations,  except  as  to  the  places  of 
choosing  senators. 

The  Congress  shall  assemble  at  least  once  in  every 
year,  and  such  meeting  shall  be  on  the  first  Monday 
in  December,  unless  they  shall  by  law  appoint  a 
different  day. 

Sect.  5.  Each  house  shall  be  the  judge  of  the 
elections,  returns,  and  qualifications  of  its  own  mem- 
bers; and  a  majority  of  each  shall  constitute  a 
quorum  to  do  business;  but  a  smaller  nimiber  may 
adjourn  from  day  to  day,  and  may  be  authorized  to 
compel  the  attendance  of  absent  members,  in  such 
manner,  and  under  such  penalties,  as  each  house 
may  provide. 

Each  house  may  determine  the  rules  of  its  pro- 
ceedings, punish  its  members  for  disorderly  behavior, 
and,  with  the  concurrence  of  two  thirds,  expel  a 
member. 


3^6  Alexander  Hamilton 

Each  house  shall  keep  a  journal  of  its  proceedings, 
and  from  time  to  time  publish  the  same,  excepting 
such  parts  as  may  in  their  judgment  require  secrecy ; 
and  the  yeas  and  nays  of  the  members  of  either  house 
on  any  question  shall,  at  the  desire  of  one  fifth  of 
those  present,  be  entered  on  the  journal. 

Neither  house,  during  the  session  of  Congress, 
shall,  without  the  consent  of  the  other,  adjourn  for 
more  than  three  days,  nor  to  any  other  place  than 
that  in  which  the  two  houses  shall  be  sitting. 

Sect.  6.  The  senators  and  representatives  shall 
receive  a  compensation  for  their  services,  to  be  as- 
certained by  law,  and  paid  out  of  the  treasury  of 
the  United  States.  They  shall,  in  all  cases,  except 
treason,  felony,  and  breach  of  the  peace,  be  privi- 
leged from  arrest  during  their  attendance  at  the  ses- 
sion of  their  respective  houses,  and  in  going  to  and 
returning  from  the  same ;  and  for  any  speech  or  de- 
bate in  either  house,  they  shall  not  be  questioned 
in  any  other  place. 

No  senator  or  representative  shall,  during  the 
time  for  which  he  was  elected,  be  appointed  to  any 
civil  office  under  the  authority  of  the  United  States, 
which  shall  have  been  created,  or  the  emoluments 
whereof  shall  have  been  increased,  during  such  time; 
and  no  person  holding  any  office  under  the  United 
States,  shall  be  a  member  of  either  house  during  his 
continuance  in  office. 

Sect.  7.  All  bills  for  raising  revenue  shall  origi- 
nate in  the  House  of  Representatives;  but  the  Sen- 
ate may  propose  or  concur  with  amendments  as  on 
other  bills. 


The  P'ederalist  367 

Every  bill  which  shall  have  passed  the  House  of 
Representatives  and  the  Senate  shall,  before  it  be- 
come a  law,  be  presented  to  the  President  of  the 
United  States;  if  he  approve,  he  shall  sign  it;  but 
if  not,  he  shall  return  it,  with  his  objections,  to  that 
house  in  which  it  shall  have  originated,  who  shall 
enter  the  objections  at  large  on  their  journal,  and 
proceed  to  reconsider  it.  If  after  such  reconsidera- 
tion two  thirds  of  that  house  shall  agree  to  pass  the 
bill,  it  shall  be  sent,  together  with  the  objections,  to 
the  other  house,  by  which  it  shall  likewise  be  recon- 
sidered, and  if  approved  by  two  thirds  of  that  house, 
it  shall  become  a  law.  But  in  all  such  cases  the  votes 
of  both  houses  shall  be  determined  by  yeas  and  nays, 
and  the  names  of  the  persons  voting  for  and  against 
the  bill  shall  be  entered  on  the  journal  of  each  house 
respectively.  If  any  bill  shall  not  be  returned  by 
the  President  within  ten  days  (Sundays  excepted) 
after  it  shall  have  been  presented  to  him,  the  same 
shall  be  a  law,  in  like  manner  as  if  he  had  signed  it, 
unless  the  Congress  by  their  adjournment  prevent 
its  return,  in  which  case  it  shall  not  be  a  law. 

Every  order,  resolution,  or  vote,  to  which  the 
concurrence  of  the  Senate  and  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives may  be  necessary  (except  on  a  question  of 
adjournment),  shall  be  presented  to  the  President  of 
the  United  States;  and  before  the  same  shall  take 
effect,  shall  be  approved  by  him,  or,  being  disap- 
proved by  him,  shall  be  repassed  by  two  thirds  of 
the  Senate  and  House  of  Representatives,  according 
to  the  rules  and  limitations  prescribed  in  the  case  of 
a  bill. 


3^8  Alexander  Hamilton 

Sect.  8.     The  Congress  shall  have  power — 

To  lay  and  collect  taxes,  duties,  imposts,  and  ex- 
cises ;  to  pay  the  debts  and  provide  for  the  common 
defence  and  general  welfare  of  the  United  States: 
but  all  duties,  imposts,  and  excises,  shall  be  uniform 
throughout  the  United  States; 

To  borrow  money  on  the  credit  of  the  United 
States ; 

To  regulate  commerce  with  foreign  nations,  and 
among  the  several  States,  and  with  the  Indian  tribes; 

To  establish  a  uniform  rule  of  naturalization,  and 
uniform  laws  on  the  subject  of  bankruptcies  through- 
out the  United  States; 

To  coin  money,  regulate  the  value  thereof,  and  of 
foreign  coin,  and  fix  the  standard  of  weights  and 
measures ; 

To  provide  for  the  punishment  of  counterfeiting 
the  securities  and  current  coin  of  the  United  States ; 

To  establish  post-offices  and  post-roads; 

To  promote  the  progress  of  science  and  useful  arts, 
by  securing  for  limited  times  to  authors  and  inventors 
the  exclusive  right  to  their  respective  writings  and 
discoveries ; 

To  constitute  tribunals  inferior  to  the  Supreme 
Court; 

To  define  and  punish  piracies  and  felonies  com- 
mitted on  the  high  seas,  and  offences  against  the  law 
of  nations; 

To  declare  war,  grant  letters  of  marque  and  re- 
prisal, and  make  rules  concerning  captures  on  land 
and  water; 

To  raise  and  support  armies,  but  no  appropriation 


The  Federalist  369 

of  money  to  that  use  shall  be  for  a  longer  term  than 
two  years; 

To  provide  and  maintain  a  navy; 

To  make  rules  for  the  government  and  regulation 
of  the  land  and  naval  forces; 

To  provide  for  calling  forth  the  militia  to  execute 
the  laws  of  the  Union,  suppress  insurrections,  and 
repel  invasions; 

To  provide  for  organizing,  arming,  and  disciplining 
the  militia,  and  for  governing  such  parts  of  them  as 
may  be  employed  in  the  service  of  the  United  States, 
reserving  to  the  States  respectively,  the  appointment 
of  the  officers,  and  the  authority  of  training  the 
militia  according  to  the  discipline  prescribed  by 
Congress ; 

To  exercise  exclusive  legislation  in  all  cases  what- 
soever, over  such  district  (not  exceeding  ten  miles 
square)  as  may,  by  cession  of  particular  States,  and 
the  acceptance  of  Congress,  become  the  seat  of  the 
government  of  the  United  States,  and  to  exercise 
like  authority  over  all  places  purchased  by  the  con- 
sent of  the  legislature  of  the  State  in  which  the  same 
shall  be,  for  the  erection  of  forts,  magazines,  arsen- 
als, dock-yards,  and  other  needful  buildings;   And 

To  make  all  laws  which  shall  be  necessary  and 
proper  for  carrying  into  execution  the  foregoing 
powers,  and  all  other  powers  vested  by  this  Con- 
stitution in  the  government  of  the  United  States,  or 
in  any  department  or  officer  thereof. 

Sect.  9.  The  migration  or  importation  of  such 
persons  as  any  of  the  States  now  existing  shall  think 
proper  to  admit,   shall   not  be   prohibited   by  the 

VOL.  XII. — 24 


2>7^  Alexander  Hamilton 

Congress  prior  to  the  year  one  thousand  eight  hund- 
red and  eight,  but  a  tax  or  duty  may  be  imposed  on 
such  importation,  not  exceeding  ten  dollars  for  each 
person. 

The  privilege  of  the  writ  of  habeas  corpus  shall  not 
be  suspended,  unless  when  in  cases  of  rebellion  or 
invasion  the  public  safety  may  require  it. 

No  bill  of  attainder  or  ex-post-facto  law  shall  be 
passed. 

No  capitation,  or  other  direct,  tax  shall  be  laid, 
unless  in  proportion  to  the  census  or  enumeration 
herein  before  directed  to  be  taken. 

No  tax  or  duty  shall  be  laid  on  articles  exported 
from  any  State.  No  preference  shall  be  given  by 
any  regulation  of  commerce  or  revenue  to  the  ports 
of  one  State  over  those  of  another ;  nor  shall  vessels 
bound  to,  or  from,  one  State,  be  obliged  to  enter, 
clear,  or  pay  duties  in  another. 

No  money  shall  be  drawn  from  the  treasury,  but 
in  consequence  of  appropriations  made  by  law;  and 
a  regular  statement  and  account  of  the  receipts  and 
expenditures  of  all  public  money  shall  be  published 
from  time  to  time. 

No  title  of  nobility  shall  be  granted  by  the  United 
States:  And  no  person  holding  any  office  of  profit 
or  trust  under  them,  shall,  without  the  consent  of 
the  Congress,  accept  of  any  present,  emolument, 
office,  or  title,  of  any  kind  whatever,  from  any  king, 
prince,  or  foreign  state. 

Sect.  io.  No  State  shall  enter  into  any  treaty, 
alliance,  or  confederation;  grant  letters  of  marque 
and  reprisal ;  coin  money ;  emit  bills  of  credit ;  make 


The  Federalist  371 

any  thing  but  gold  and  silver  coin  a  tender  in  pay- 
ment of  debts;  pass  any  bill  of  attainder,  ex-post- 
facto  law,  or  law  impairing  the  obligation  of  contracts; 
or  grant  any  title  of  nobility. 

No  State  shall,  without  the  consent  of  the  Con- 
gress, lay  any  imposts  or  duties  on  imports  or  ex- 
ports, except  what  may  be  absolutely  necessary  for 
executing  its  inspection  laws;  and  the  net  proceeds 
of  all  duties  and  imposts,  laid  by  any  State  on  im- 
ports or  exports,  shall  be  for  the  use  of  the  treasury 
of  the  United  States ;  and  all  such  laws  shall  be  sub- 
ject to  the  revision  and  control  of  the  Congress.  No 
State  shall,  without  the  consent  of  Congress,  lay  any 
duties  of  tonnage,  keep  troops,  or  ships  of  war,  in 
time  of  peace,  enter  into  any  agreement  or  compact 
with  another  state,  or  with  a  foreign  power,  or  en- 
gage in  war,  unless  actually  invaded,  or  in  such  im- 
minent danger  as  will  not  admit  of  delay. 

ARTICLE    II 

Sect.  i.  The  executive  power  shall  be  vested  in 
a  President  of  the  United  States  of  America.  He 
shall  hold  his  office  during  the  term  of  four  years, 
and,  together  with  the  Vice-President,  chosen  for 
the  same  term,  be  elected  as  follows: 

Each  State  shall  appoint,  ip  such  manner  as  the 
legislature  thereof  may  direct,  a  nimiber  of  electors, 
equal  to  the  whole  number  of  senators  and  repre- 
sentatives to  which  the  State  may  be  entitled  in  the 
Congress :  but  no  senator  or  representative,  or  person 
holding  an  office  of  trust  or  profit  under  the  United 
States,  shall  be  appointed  an  elector. 


372  Alexander  Hamilton 

The  electors  shall  meet  in  their  respective  States, 
and  vote  by  ballot  for  two  persons,  of  whom  one  at 
least  shall  not  be  an  inhabitant  of  the  same  State 
with  themselves.  And  they  shall  make  a  list  of  all 
the  persons  voted  for,  and  of  the  number  of  votes 
for  each ;  which  list  they  shall  sign  and  certify,  and 
transmit  sealed  to  the  seat  of  the  government  of  the 
United  States,  directed  to  the  president  of  the  Senate. 
The  president  of  the  Senate  shall,  in  the  presence  of 
the  Senate  and  the  House  of  Representatives,  open 
all  the  certificates,  and  the  votes  shall  then  be 
counted.  The  person  having  the  greatest  number 
of  votes  shall  be  the  President,  if  such  number  be  a 
majority  of  the  whole  number  of  electors  appointed; 
and  if  there  be  more  than  one  who  have  such 
majority,  and  have  an  equal  number  of  votes,  then 
the  House  of  Representatives  shall  immediately 
choose  by  ballot  one  of  them  for  President;  and  if 
no  person  have  a  majority,  then  from  the  five  highest 
on  the  list  the  said  House  shall  in  like  manner  choose 
the  President.  But  in  choosing  the  President,  the 
votes  shall  be  taken  by  States,  the  representation 
from  each  State  having  one  vote ;  a  quorum  for  this 
purpose  shall  consist  of  a  member  or  members  from 
two  thirds  of  the  States,  and  a  majority  of  all  the 
States  shall  be  necessary  to  a  choice.  In  every 
case,  after  the  choice  of  the  President,  the  person 
having  the  greatest  number  of  votes  of  the  electors 
shall  be  the  Vice-President.  But  if  there  should 
remain  two  or  more  who  have  equal  votes,  the 
Senate  shall  choose  from  them  by  ballot  the  Vice- 
President. 


The  Federalist  373 

The  Congress  may  determine  the  time  of  choosing 
the  electors,  and  the  day  on  which  they  shall  give 
their  votes ;  which  day  shall  be  the  same  throughout 
the  United  States. 

No  person  except  a  natural-bom  citizen,  or  a 
citizen  of  the  United  States,  at  the  time  of  the  adop- 
tion of  this  Constitution,  shall  be  eligible  to  the  office 
of  President;  neither  shall  any  person  be  eligible  to 
that  office  who  shall  not  have  attained  to  the  age  of 
thirty-five  years,  and  been  fourteen  years  a  resident 
within  the  United  States. 

In  case  of  the  removal  of  the  President  from  office, 
or  of  his  death,  resignation,  or  inability  to  discharge 
the  powers  and  duties  of  the  said  office,  the  same 
shall  devolve  on  the  Vice-President,  and  the  Con- 
gress may  by  law  provide  for  the  case  of  removal, 
death,  resignation,  or  inability,  both  of  the  President 
and  Vice-President,  declaring  what  officer  shall  then 
act  as  President,  and  such  officer  shall  act  accordingly 
until  the  disability  be  removed,  or  a  President  shall 
be  elected. 

The  President  shall,  at  stated  times,  receive  for 
his  services  a  compensation,  which  shall  neither  be 
increased  nor  diminished  during  the  period  for  which 
he  shall  have  been  elected,  and  he  shall  not  receive 
within  that  period  any  other  emolument  from  the 
United  States,  or  any  of  them. 

Before  he  enter  on  the  execution  of  his  office,  he 
shall  take  the  following  oath  or  affirmation: 

"  I  do  solemnly  swear  (or  affirm)  that  I  will  faith- 
fully execute  the  office  of  President  of  the  United 
States,  and  will,  to  the  best  of  my  ability,  preserve. 


374  Alexander  Hamilton 

protect,  and  defend  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States." 

-  Sect.  2.  The  President  shall  be  commander-in- 
chief  of  the  army  and  navy  of  the  United  States; 
and  of  the  militia  of  the  several  States,  when  called 
into  the  actual  service  of  the  United  States ;  he  may 
require  the  opinion,  in  writing,  of  the  principal 
officer  in  each  of  the  executive  departments,  upon 
any  subject  relating  to  the  duties  of  their  respective 
offices,  and  he  shall  have  power  to  grant  reprieves 
and  pardons  for  offences  against  the  United  States, 
except  in  cases  of  impeachment. 

He  shall  have  power,  by  and  with  the  advice  and 
consent  of  the  Senate,  to  make  treaties,  provided 
two  thirds  of  the  senators  present  concur;  and  he 
shall  nominate,  and,  by  and  with  the  advice  and 
consent  of  the  Senate,  shall  appoint  ambassadors, 
other  public  ministers  and  consuls,  judges  of  the 
Supreme  Court,  and  all  other  officers  of  the  United 
States,  whose  appointments  are  not  herein  other- 
wise provided  for,  and  which  shall  be  established  by 
law.  But  the  Congress  may  by  law  vest  the  ap- 
pointment of  such  inferior  officers,  as  they  think 
proper,  in  the  President  alone,  in  the  courts  of  law, 
or  in  the  heads  of  departments. 

The  President  shall  have  power  to  fill  up  all  va- 
cancies that  may  happen  during  the  recess  of  the 
Senate,  by  granting  commissions  which  shall  expire 
at  the  end  of  their  next  session. 

Sect.  3.  He  shall  from  time  to  time  give  to  the 
Congress  information  of  the  state  of  the  Union,  and 
recommend  to  their  consideration  such  measures  as 


The  Federalist  375 

he  shall  judge  necessary  and  expedient;  he  may, 
on  extraordinary  occasions,  convene  both  houses,  or 
either  of  them,  and  in  case  of  disagreement  between 
them,  with  respect  to  the  time  of  adjournment,  he 
may  adjourn  them  to  such  time  as  he  shall  think 
proper;  he  shall  receive  ambassadors  and  other 
public  ministers ;  he  shall  take  care  that  the  laws  be 
faithfully  executed,  and  shall  commission  all  the 
officers  of  the  United  States. 

Sect.  4.  The  President,  Vice-President,  and  all 
civil  officers  of  the  United  States  shall  be  removed 
from  office  on  impeachment  for,  and  conviction 
of,  treason,  bribery,  or  other  high  crimes  and 
misdemeanors. 

ARTICLE  in 

Sect,  i  .  The  judicial  power  of  the  United  States 
shall  be  vested  in  one  Supreme  Court,  and  in  such 
inferior  courts  as  the  Congress  may  from  time  to 
time  ordain  and  establish.  The  judges,  both  of  the 
Supreme  and  inferior  courts,  shall  hold  their  offices 
during  good  behavior,  and  shall,  at  stated  times, 
receive  for  their  services  a  compensation,  which 
shall  not  be  diminished  during  their  continuance  in 
office. 

Sect.  2.  The  judicial  power  shall  extend  to  all 
cases  in  law  and  equity  arising  under  this  Constitu- 
tion, the  laws  of  the  United  States,  and  treaties 
made,  or  which  shall  be  made,  under  their  authority; 
to  all  cases  affecting  ambassadors,  other  public 
ministers  and  consuls;  to  all  cases  of  admiralty  and 


37^  Alexander  Hamilton 

maritime  jurisdiction;  to  controversies  to  which  the 
United  States  shall  be  a  party ;  to  controversies  be- 
tween two  or  more  States;  between  a  State  and 
citizen  of  another  State ;  between  citizens  of  different 
States;  between  citizens  of  the  same  State  claiming 
lands  under  grants  of  different  States;  and  between 
a  State,  or  the  citizens  thereof,  and  foreign  states, 
citizens,  or  subjects. 

In  all  cases  affecting  ambassadors,  other  public 
ministers  and  consuls,  and  those  in  which  a  State 
shall  be  party,  the  Supreme  Court  shall  have  original 
jurisdiction.  In  all  the  other  cases  before  men- 
tioned, the  Supreme  Court  shall  have  appellate 
jurisdiction,  both  as  to  law  and  fact,  with  such  ex- 
ceptions, and  under  such  regulations,  as  the  Congress 
shall  make. 

The  trial  of  all  crimes,  except  in  cases  of  impeach- 
ment, shall  be  by  jury;  and  such  trial  shall  be  held 
in  the  State  where  the  said  crimes  shall  have  been 
committed;  but  when  not  committed  within  any 
State,  the  trial  shall  be  at  such  place  or  places  as  the 
Congress  may  by  law  have  directed. 

Sect.  3.  Treason  against  the  United  States  shall 
consist  only  in  levying  war  against  them,  or  in  ad- 
hering to  their  enemies,  giving  them  aid  and  comfort. 
No  person  shall  be  convicted  of  treason  unless  on  the 
testimony  of  two  witnesses  to  the  same  overt  act,  or 
on  confession  in  open  court. 

The  Congress  shall  have  power  to  declare  the  pun- 
ishment of  treason,  but  no  attainder  of  treason  shall 
work  corruption  of  blood,  or  forfeiture,  except  during 
the  life  of  the  person  attainted. 


The  Federalist  m 

ARTICLE   IV 

Sect.  i.  Full  faith  and  credit  shall  be  given  in 
each  State  to  the  public  acts,  records,  and  judicial 
proceedings  of  every  other  State  And  the  Congress 
may  by  general  laws  prescribe  the  manner  in  which 
such  acts,  records,  and  proceedings  shall  be  proved, 
and  the  effect  thereof. 

Sect.  2.  The  citizens  of  each  State  shall  be  en- 
titled to  all  privileges  and  immunities  of  citizens  in 
the  several  States. 

A  person  charged  in  any  State  with  treason,  felony, 
or  other  crime,  who  shall  flee  from  justice,  and  be  found 
in  another  State,  shall,  on  demand  of  the  executive 
authority  of  the  State  from  which  he  fled,  be  delivered 
up,  to  be  removed  to  the  State  having  jurisdiction 
of  the  crime. 

No  person  held  to  service  or  labor  in  one  State, 
under  the  laws  thereof,  escaping  into  another,  shall, 
in  consequence  of  any  law  or  regulation  therein,  be 
discharged  from  such  service  or  labor,  but  shall  be 
delivered  up  on  claim  of  the  party  to  whom  such 
service  or  labor  may  be  due. 

Sect.  3.  New  States  may  be  admitted  by  the 
Congress  into  this  Union ;  but  no  new  State  shall  be 
formed  or  erected  within  the  jurisdiction  of  any 
other  State,  nor  any  State  be  formed  by  the  junction 
of  two  or  more  States,  or  parts  of  States,  without  the 
consent  of  the  legislatures  of  the  States  concerned, 
as  well  as  of  the  Congress. 

The  Congress  shall  have  power  to  dispose  of  and 
make  all  needful  rules  and  regulations  respecting  the 


37^  Alexander  Hamilton 

territory  or  other  property  belonging  to  the  United 
States ;  and  nothing  in  this  Constitution  shall  be  so 
construed  as  to  prejudice  any  claims  of  the  United 
States,  or  of  any  particular  State. 

Sect.  4.  The  United  States  shall  guarantee  to 
every  State  in  this  Union  a  republican  form  of 
government,  and  shall  protect  each  of  them  against 
invasion,  and  on  application  of  the  legislature,  or 
of  the  Executive  (when  the  legislature  cannot  be 
convened),  against  domestic  violence. 

ARTICLE   V 

The  Congress,  whenever  two  thirds  of  both  houses 
shall  deem  it  necessary,  shall  propose  amendments 
to  this  Constitution,  or,  on  the  application  of  the 
legislatures  of  two  thirds  of  the  several  States,  shall 
call  a  convention  for  proposing  amendments,  which, 
in  either  case,  shall  be  valid  to  all  intents  and  pur- 
poses, as  part  of  this  Constitution,  when  ratified  by 
the  legislatures  of  three  fourths  of  the  several  States, 
or  by  conventions  in  three  fourths  thereof,  as  the 
one  or  the  other  mode  of  ratification  may  be  pro- 
posed by  the  Congress :  Provided,  that  no  amendment 
which  may  be  made  prior  to  the  year  one  thousand 
eight  hundred  and  eight,  shall  in  any  manner  affect 
the  first  and  fourth  clauses  in  the  ninth  section  of  the 
first  article;  and  that  no  State,  without  its  consent, 
shall  be  deprived  of  its  equal  suffrage  in  the  Senate. 

ARTICLE    VI 

All  debts  contracted  and  engagements  entered 
into,  before  the  adoption  of  this  Constitution,  shall 


The  Federalist  379 

be  as  valid  against  the  United  States  under  this 
Constitution,  as  under  the  Confederation. 

This  Constitution,  and  the  laws  of  the  United 
States  which  shall  be  made  in  pursuance  thereof; 
and  all  treaties  made,  or  which  shall  be  made,  under 
the  authority  of  the  United  States,  shall  be  the 
supreme  law  of  the  land;  and  the  judges  in  every 
State  shall  be  bound  thereby,  any  thing  in  the 
Constitution  or  laws  of  any  State  to  the  contrary 
notwithstanding. 

The  senators  and  representatives  before  men- 
tioned, and  the  members  of  the  several  State  legis- 
latures, and  all  executive  and  judicial  officers,  both 
of  the  United  States  and  of  the  several  States,  shall 
be  bound  by  oath  or  affirmation  to  support  this  Con- 
stitution ;  but  no  religious  test  shall  ever  be  required 
as  a  qualification  to  any  office  or  public  trust  under 
the  United  States. 


ARTICLE   VII 

The  ratification  of  the  conventions  of  nine  States 
shall  be  sufficient  for  the  establishment  of  this 
Constitution  between  the  States  so  ratifying  the 
same. 

DONE  in  convention,  by  the  unanimous  consent  of 
the  States  present,  the  seventeenth  day  of  Sep- 
tember, in  the  year  of  our  Lord  one  thousand 
seven  hundred  and  eighty-seven,  and  of  the  in- 
dependence of  the  United  States  of  America  the 


38o 


Alexander  Hamilton 


twelfth.     In  witness  whereof,  we  have  hereunto 
subscribed  our  names. 


NEW-HAMPSHIRE 

MASSACHUSETTS 

CONNECTICUT    . 
NEW  YORK    .     . 

NEW  JERSEY     . 


GEORGE  WASHINGTON,  President,  and  Deputy 

from  Virginia. 

{  John  Langdon, 

\  Nicholas  Oilman. 

j  Nathaniel  Gorham, 

I  RuFus  King. 

j  William  Samuel  Johnson 

I  Roger  Sherman. 

^  Alexander  Hamilton. 

f  William  Livingston, 
J  David  Brearley, 
William  Paterson, 
Jonathan  Dayton. 

Benjamin  Franklin, 
Thomas  Mifflin, 
Robert  Morris, 
George  Clymer, 
Thomas  Fitzsimons, 
Jared  Ingersoll, 
James  Wilson, 
gouverneur  morris. 
^George  Read, 
Gunning  Bedford,  Junior. 

IJoHN  Dickinson, 
Richard  Bassett, 
Jacob  Broom. 
f  James  M'Henry, 
J  Daniel   Jenifer,    of   St. 

*  I  Thomas, 
[  Daniel  Carroll. 

j  John  Blair, 

*  I  James  Madison,  Junior. 


PENNSYLVANIA.     .^ 


DELAWARE 


MARYLAND 


VIRGINIA 


The  Federalist 


381 


[  William  Blount, 
NORTH  CAROLINA  <  Richard  Dobbs  Spaight, 

(  Hugh  Williamson, 
^john  rutledge, 
Charles  Cotesworth 
■<  Pinckney, 

Charles  Pinckney, 
Pierce  Butler. 

i  William  Few, 
*  /  Abraham  Baldwin. 


SOUTH  CAROLINA 


GEORGIA 


Attest. 


WILLIAM  JACKSON,  Secretary. 


in  convention 


Monday,  September  17,  1787. 

Present,  The  States  of  New  Hampshire,  Massachu- 
setts, Connecticut,  Mr.  Hamilton  from  New-York, 
New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  Delaware,  Maryland, 
Virginia,   North  Carolina,   South  Carolina,   and 
Georgia. 
Resolved,  That  the  preceding  Constitution  be  laid 
before  the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled,  and 
that  it  is  the  opinion  of  this  conveniton,  that  it 
should  afterwards  be  submitted  to  a  convention  of 
delegates,  chosen  in  each  State  by  the  people  thereof, 
under  the  recommendation  of  its  legislature,  for  their 
assent  and  ratification;    and  that  each  convention 
assenting  to,   and  ratifying  the  same  should  give 
notice  thereof  to   the   United   States  in   Congress 
assembled. 

Resolved,  That  it  is  the  opinion  of  this  convention, 
that  as  soon  as  the  conventions  of  nine  States  shall 


382  Alexander  Hamilton 

have  ratified  this  Constitution,  the  United  States  in 
Congress  assembled  should  fix  a  day  on  which 
electors  should  be  appointed  by  the  States  which 
shall  have  ratified  the  same,  and  a  day  on  which  the 
electors  should  assemble  to  vote  for  the  President, 
and  the  time  and  place  for  commencing  proceedings 
under  this  Constitution ;  that  after  such  publication 
the  electors  should  be  appointed,  and  the  senators 
and  representatives  elected ;  that  the  electors  should 
meet  on  the  day  fiixed  for  the  election  of  the  Presi- 
dent, and  should  transmit  their  votes  certified,  signed, 
sealed,  and  directed,  as  the  Constitution  requires,  to 
the  secretary  of  the  United  States  in  Congress  as- 
sembled; that  the  senators  and  representatives 
should  convene  at  the  time  and  place  assigned ;  that 
the  senators  should  appoint  a  president  of  the 
Senate,  for  the  sole  purpose  of  receiving,  opening 
and  counting  the  votes  for  President ;  and  that  after 
he  shall  be  chosen,  the  Congress,  together  with  the 
President,  should  without  delay  proceed  to  execute 
this  Constitution. 

By  the  unanimous  order  of  the  convention. 

GEORGE  WASHINGTON,  President 
William  Jackson,  Secretary, 


IN  convention 


September  17,  1787. 

Sir:  We  have  now  the  honor  to  submit  to  the 
consideration  of  the  United  States  in  Congress  assem- 
bled, that  Constitution  which  has  appeared  to  us  the 


The  Federalist  3^3 

most  advisable.  The  friends  of  our  country  have 
long  seen  and  desired,  that  the  power  of  making  war, 
peace,  and  treaties,  of  levying  money  and  regulating 
commerce,  and  the  correspondent  executive  and 
judicial  authorities,  should  be  fully  and  effectually 
vested  in  the  general  government  of  the  Union ;  but 
the  impropriety  of  delegating  such  extensive  trusts 
to  one  body  of  men  is  evident.  Hence  results  the 
necessity  of  a  different  organization.  It  is  ob- 
viously impracticable,  in  the  federal  government  of 
the  States,  to  secure  all  rights  of  independent  sov- 
ereignty to  each,  and  yet  provide  for  the  interest 
and  safety  of  all.  Individuals  entering  into  society 
must  give  up  a  share  of  liberty  to  preserve  the  rest. 
The  magnitude  of  the  sacrifice  must  depend  as  well 
on  situation  and  circumstances  as  on  the  object  to 
be  obtained.  It  is  at  all  times  difficult  to  draw  with 
precision  the  line  between  those  rights  which  must  be 
surrendered,  and  those  which  may  be  reserved;  and 
on  the  present  occasion  this  difficulty  was  increased 
by  a  difference  among  the  several  States  as  to  their 
situation,  extent,  habits,  and  particular  interests. 

In  all  our  deliberations  on  this  subject  we  kept 
steadily  in  our  view,  that  which  appears  to  us  the 
greatest  interest  of  every  true  American,  the  con- 
solidation of  our  Union,  in  which  is  involved  our 
prosperity,  felicity,  safety,  perhaps  our  national 
existence.  This  important  consideration,  seriously 
and  deeply  impressed  on  our  minds,  led  each  State 
in  the  convention  to  be  less  rigid  on  points  of  inferior 
magnitude  than  might  have  been  otherwise  ex- 
pected;   and  thus  the  Constitution,  which  we  now 


384  Alexander  Hamilton 

present,  is  the  result  of  a  spirit  of  amity,  and 
of  that  mutual  deference  and  concession  which 
the  pecuharity  of  our  poHtical  situation  rendered 
indispensable. 

That  it  will  meet  the  full  and  entire  approbation 
of  every  State  is  not  perhaps  to  be  expected;  but 
each  will  doubtless  consider,  that  had  her  interest 
alone  been  consulted,  the  consequences  might  have 
been  particularly  disagreeable  or  injurious  to  others ; 
that  it  is  liable  to  as  few  exceptions  as  could  reason- 
ably have  been  expected,  we  hope  and  believe;  that 
it  may  promote  the  lasting  welfare  of  that  country 
so  dear  to  us  all,  and  secure  her  freedom  and  happi- 
ness, is  our  most  ardent  wish.  With  great  respect, 
we  have  the  honor  to  be,  sir,  your  Excellency's  most 
obedient  and  humble  servants: 

By  unanimous  order  of  the  convention. 

Geo.  Washington,  President. 
His  Excellency  the  President  of  Congress. 


AMENDMENTS  TO  THE  CONSTITUTION 

The  first  ten  amendments  were  proposed  in  Con- 
gress during  its  first  session,  and  on  the  15th  of 
December,  1791,  were  ratified.  The  eleventh  amend- 
ment was  proposed  during  the  first  session  of  the 
third  Congress,  and  was  announced  by  the  President 
of  the  United  States  in  a  message  to  it,  of  date  Janu- 
ary 8th,  1798,  as  having  been  ratified.  The  twelfth 
amendment   originated   with   Hamilton,*    and   was 

^  Hist.  Rep.,  VII.,  s66. 


The  Federalist  385 

proposed  during  the  first  session  of  the  eighth  Con- 
gress, and  was  adopted  in  1804, 

ARTICLE    THE    FIRST 

Congress  shall  make  no  law  respecting  the  estab- 
lishment of  religion,  or  prohibiting  the  free  exercise 
thereof;  or  abridging  the  freedom  of  speech,  or  of 
the  press;  or  the  right  of  the  people  peaceably  to 
assem.ble,  and  to  petition  the  government  for  a  re- 
dress of  grievances. 

ARTICLE   THE    SECOND 

A  well  regulated  militia  being  necessary  to  the 
security  of  a  free  State,  the  right  of  the  people  to 
keep  and  bear  arms  shall  not  be  infringed. 

ARTICLE    THE    THIRD 

No  soldier  shall,  in  time  of  peace,  be  quartered  in 
any  house  without  the  consent  of  the  owner;  nor  in 
time  of  war,  but  in  the  manner  prescribed  by  law. 

ARTICLE    THE    FOURTH 

The  right  of  the  people  to  be  secure  in  their  per- 
sons, houses,  papers,  and  effects,  against  unreason- 
able searches  and  seizures,  shall  not  be  violated,  and 
no  warrants  shall  issue,  but  upon  probable  cause, 
supported  by  oath  or  affirmation,  and  particularly 
describing  the  place  to  be  searched,  and  the  persons 
or  things  to  be  seized. 


VOL.  XII. — 25. 


386  Alexander  Hamilton 

ARTICLE    THE    FIFTH 

No  person  shall  be  held  to  answer  for  a  capital  or 
otherwise  infamous  crime,  unless  on  a  presentment 
or  indictment  of  a  grand  jury,  except  in  cases  aris- 
ing in  the  land  or  naval  forces,  or  in  the  militia  when 
in  actual  service  in  time  of  war  or  public  danger; 
nor  shall  any  person  be  subject  for  the  same  offence 
to  be  twice  put  in  jeopardy  of  life  or  limb;  nor 
shall  be  compelled  in  any  criminal  case  to  be  witness 
against  himself;  nor  be  deprived  of  life,  liberty,  or 
property,  without  due  process  of  law;  nor  shall  pri- 
vate property  be  taken  for  public  use  without  just 
compensation. 

ARTICLE   THE    SIXTH 

In  all  criminal  prosecutions  the  accused  shall  enjoy 
the  right  of  a  speedy  and  public  trial,  by  an  impartial 
jury  of  the  State  and  district  wherein  the  crime 
shall  have  been  committed,  which  district  shall  have 
been  previously  ascertained  by  law,  and  to  be  in- 
formed of  the  nature  and  cause  of  the  accusation; 
to  be  confronted  with  the  witnesses  against  him ;  to 
have  compulsory  process  for  obtaining  witnesses  in 
his  favor,  and  to  have  the  assistance  of  counsel  for. 
his  defence. 

ARTICLE   THE    SEVENTH 

In  suits  at  common  law,  where  the  value  in  con- 
troversy shall  exceed  twenty  dollars,  the  right  of 
trial  by  jury  shall  be  preserved ;  and  no  fact  tried  by 


The  Federalist  387 

a  jury,  shall  be  otherwise  reexamined  in  any  court  of 
the  United  States  than  according  to  the  rules  of  the 
common  law. 

ARTICLE    THE    EIGHTH 

Excessive  bail  shall  not  be  required,  nor  excessive 
fines  imposed,  nor  cruel  and  unusual  punishments 
inflicted. 

ARTICLE    THE    NINTH 

The  enumeration  in  the  Constitution  of  certain 
rights,  shall  not  be  construed  to  deny  or  disparage 
others  retained  by  the  people. 

ARTICLE    THE    TENTH 

The  powers  not  delegated  to  the  United  States  by 
the  Constitution  or  prohibited  by  it  to  the  States, 
are  reserved  to  the  States  respectively,  or  to  the 
people. 

ARTICLE    THE    ELEVENTH 

The  judicial  power  of  the  United  States  shall  not 
be  construed  to  extend  to  any  suit  in  law  or  equity, 
commenced  or  prosecuted  against  one  of  the  United 
States  by  citizens  of  another  State,  or  by  citizens  or 
subjects  of  any  foreign  State. 

ARTICLE    THE    TWELFTH 

The  electors  shall  meet  in  their  respective  States, 
and  vote  by  ballot  for  President  and  Vice-President, 


388  Alexander  Hamilton 

one  of  whom,  at  least,  shall  not  be  an  inhabitant  of 
the  same  State  with  themselves ;  they  shall  name  in 
their  ballots  the  person  voted  for  as  President,  and 
in  distinct  ballots  the  person  voted  for  as  Vice- 
President;  and  they  shall  make  distinct  lists  of  all 
persons  voted  for  as  President,  and  of  all  persons 
voted  for  as  Vice-President,  and  of  the  number  of 
votes  for  each,  which  lists  they  shall  sign  and  certify, 
and  transmit  sealed  to  the  seat  of  government  of  the 
United  States,  directed  to  the  president  of  the  Sen- 
ate; the  president  of  the  Senate  shall,  in  the  presence 
of  the  Senate  and  the  House  of  Representatives,  open 
all  the  certificates,  and  the  votes  shall  then  be 
counted;  the  person  having  the  greatest  number  of 
votes  for  President,  shall  be  the  President,  if  such 
number  be  a  majority  of  the  whole  number  of  electors 
appointed ;  and  if  no  person  have  such  majority,  then 
from  the  persons  having  the  highest  numbers,  not 
exceeding  three,  on  the  list  of  those  voted  for  as 
President,  the  House  of  Representatives  shall  choose 
immediately,  by  ballot,  the  President.  But  in 
choosing  the  President,  the  votes  shall  be  taken  by 
States,  the  representation  from  each  State  having 
one  vote ;  a  quorum  for  this  purpose  shall  consist  of 
a  member  or  members  from  two  thirds  of  the  States, 
and  a  majority  of  all  the  States  shall  be  necessary  to 
a  choice.  And  if  the  House  of  Representatives  shall 
not  choose  a  President  whenever  the  right  of  choice 
shall  devolve  upon  them,  before  the  fourth  day  of 
March  next  following,  then  the  Vice-President  shall 
act  as  President  as  in  the  case  of  the  death  or 
constitutional  disability  of  the  President. 


I 


The  Federalist  3^9 

The  person  having  the  greatest  number  of  votes 
as  Vice-President,  shall  be  the  Vice-President,  if 
such  number  be  a  majority  of  the  whole  number  of 
electors  appointed ;  and  if  no  person  have  a  majority, 
then  from  the  two  highest  numbers  on  the  list,  the 
Senate  shall  choose  the  Vice-President;  a  quorum 
for  the  purpose  shall  consist  of  two  thirds  of  the 
whole  number  of  senators,  and  a  majority  of  the 
whole  number  shall  be  necessary  to  a  choice. 

But  no  person  constitutionally  ineligible  to  the 
office  of  President  shall  be  eligible  to  that  of  Vice- 
President  of  the  United  States. 

The  following  amendment  was  ratified  by  Ala- 
bama, December  2,  1865,  which  filled  the  requisite 
complement  of  ratifying  States,  and  was  certified 
by  the  Secretary  of  State  to  have  become  valid  as  a 
part  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  De- 
cember 18,  1865. 

ARTICLE   THE    THIRTEENTH 

Sect.  i.  Neither  slavery  nor  involuntary  servi- 
tude, except  as  a  punishment  for  crime,  whereof  the 
party  shall  have  been  duly  convicted,  shall  exist 
within  the  United  States,  or  any  place  subject  to 
their  jurisdiction. 

Sect.  2.  Congress  shall  have  power  to  enforce 
this  article  by  appropriate  legislation. 

The  following  amendment  was  certified  by  the 
Secretary  of  State  to  have  become  valid  as  a  part  of 
the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  July  28,  1868. 


390  Alexander  Hamilton 

ARTICLE    THE    FOURTEENTH 

Sect.  i.  All  persons  born  or  naturalized  in  the 
United  States,  and  subject  to  the  jurisdiction  thereof, 
are  citizens  of  the  United  States  and  of  the  States 
wherein  they  reside.  No  State  shall  make  or  en- 
force any  law  which  shall  abridge  the  privileges  or 
immunities  of  citizens  of  the  United  States;  nor 
shall  any  State  deprive  any  person  of  life,  liberty,  or 
property  without  due  process  of  law;  nor  deny  to 
any  person  within  its  jurisdiction  the  equal  protec- 
tion of  the  laws. 

Sect.  2.  Representatives  shall  be  apportioned 
among  the  several  States  according  to  their  respective 
numbers,  counting  the  whole  number  of  persons  in 
each  State,  excluding  Indians  not  taxed.  But  when 
the  right  to  vote  at  any  election  for  the  choice  of 
electors  for  President  and  Vice-President  of  the 
United  States,  representatives  in  Congress,  the  ex- 
ecutive and  judicial  officers  of  a  State,  or  the  mem- 
bers of  the  legislature  thereof,  is  denied  to  any  of  the 
male  inhabitants  of  such  State,  being  twenty-one 
years  of  age,  and  citizens  of  the  United  States,  or  in 
any  way  abridged,  except  for  participation  in  re- 
bellion or  other  crime,  the  basis  of  representation 
therein  shall  be  reduced  in  the  proportion  which  the 
number  of  such  male  citizens  shall  bear  to  the  whole 
number  of  male  citizens  twenty- one  years  of  age  in 
such  State. 

Sect.  3.  No  person  shall  be  a  senator  or  repre- 
sentative in  Congress,  or  elector  of  President  and 
Vice-President,  or  hold  any  office,  civil  or  military, 


The  Federalist  391 

under  the  United  States,  or  under  any  State,  who, 
having  previously  taken  an  oath  as  a  member  of 
Congress,  or  as  an  officer  of  the  United  States,  or  as 
a  member  of  any  State  legislature,  or  as  an  executive 
or  judicial  officer  of  any  State,  to  support  the  Con- 
stitution of  the  United  States,  shall  have  engaged  in 
insurrection  or  rebellion  against  the  same,  or  given 
aid  or  comfort  to  the  enemies  thereof.  But  Con- 
gress may,  by  a  vote  of  two  thirds  of  each  house,  re- 
move such  disability. 

Sect.  4.  The  validity  of  the  public  debt  of  the 
United  States,  authorized  by  law,  including  debts 
incurred  for  payment  of  pensions  and  bounties  for 
services  in  suppressing  insurrection  or  rebellion, 
shall  not  be  questioned.  But  neither  the  United 
States  nor  any  State  shall  assume  or  pay  any  debt 
or  obligation  incurred  in  aid  of  insurrection  or  re- 
bellion against  the  United  States,  or  any  claim  for 
the  loss  or  emancipation  of  any  slave;  but  all  such 
debts,  obligations,  and  claims  shall  be  held  illegal 
and  void. 

Sect.  5.  The  Congress  shall  have  power  to  en- 
force, by  appropriate  legislation,  the  provisions  of 
this  article. 

The  following  amendment  was  proposed  to  the 
legislatures  of  the  several  States  by  the  fortieth 
Congress,  on  the  27th  of  February,  1869,  and  was 
declared,  in  a  proclamation  of  the  Secretary  of  State, 
dated  March  30,  1870,  to  have  been  ratified  by 
the  legislatures  of  twenty-nine  of  the  thirty-seven 
States. 


392  Alexander  Hamilton 

ARTICLE    THE    FIFTEENTH 

Sect.  i.  The  right  of  citizens  of  the  United  States 
to  vote  shall  not  be  denied  or  abridged  by  the  United 
States,  or  by  any  State,  on  account  of  race,  color,  or 
previous  condition  of  servitude. 

Sect.  2.  Congress  shall  have  power  to  enforce  this 
article  by  appropriate  legislationo 


INDEX  TO  THE  FEDERALIST' 


Achaean  League,  xi.,  121,  139, 
296,  381 

Achaeans :  They  abandoned  the  ex- 
periment of  plural  praetors,  xii., 
196 

Agriculture:  Its  interests  inter- 
woven with  those  of  commerce, 
xi.,  89 

Amendments :  Obligation  under 
the  Constitution,  concerning 
them,  xi.,  364 

American  System:  Idea  of  one, 
xi.,  88        ^ 

Amphictyonic   Council,   xi.,    135, 

359 

Annapolis,  extract  from  the  re- 
commendation of  the  meeting 
at,  in  September,  1786,  xi.,  318 

Anne,  Queen:  Extracts  from  her 
letter  to  the  Scotch  Parliament, 
xi.,  28 

Appeals  to  the  People:  dangers 
and  inconveniences  attending 
them,  xii.,  32;  objections  to 
their  being  periodically  made, 

33,  34 

Articles  of  Confederation :  (appen- 
dix), xii.,  349-361 

Aspasia,  xi.,  35 

Assemblies,  objections  to  numer- 
ous, xii.,  73,  76,  80  (see  House 
of  Representatives).  After  a 
number  of  Representatives  suffi- 
cient for  the  purposes  of  safety, 
of  local  information,and  of  diffu- 
sive sympathy  with  the  whole 
society,  is  secured,  any  addition 
to  them  is  injurious,  xii.,  102 

Athens,  Archons  of,  xii.,  140 


Attainder,  Bills  of:  Provision  of 
the  Constitution  concerning 
them,  xi.,  370 

Bankruptcy     (see    Constitution) : 

Provision   of  the   Constitution 

concerning  it,  xi.,  353 
Bills  of  Credit:  Provision  of  the 

Constitution  concerning  them, 

xi.,  368 
Bills  of  Rights:   In  their  origin, 

stipulations  between  kings  and 

subjects,  xii.,  321 

Cambray,  League  of,  xi.,  39 
Carthage,  Senate  of,  xii.,  138 
Cato :  An  opponent  of  the  Consti- 
tution, cited,  xii.,  172 
Coalition:    The   word   used   in    a 

good  sense,  xii.,  97 
Commerce  (see  Confederation, 
Union) :  Examination  of  the 
opinion  that  its  tendency  is 
pacific,  xi.,  38;  a  source  of  con- 
tention between  the  separate 
States,  and  would  be  among 
separate  Confederacies  of  them, 
46;  policy  of  prohibitory  regu- 
lations in  regard  to  it,  on  the 
part  of  the  United  States,  80; 
intimacy  between  its  interests 
.and  those  of  agriculture,  89; 
power  under  the  Constitution 
of  regulating  it,  349 
Confederacies:  Inexpediency  of 
dividing  the  Union  into  three 
or  four  separate  confederacies, 
xi.,  26,  34,  42,  51;  probable 
number   of   separate   confeder- 


*  This  index  is  the  one  made  for  the  edition  published  in  Washington  in  1831  by 
Philip  R.  Fendall,  Esq.  It  has  also  been  used  by  Mr.  J.  C.  Hamilton  in  his  edition 
(1864),  and  is  there  attributed  to  P.  H.  Kendall. 

393 


394 


Index  to  the  Federalist 


Confederacies  (Continued) 

acies,  in  the  event  of  disunion, 
97 ;  tendency  of  confederacies 
rather  to  anarchy  among  the 
members  than  to  tyranny  in 
the  head,  128,  156 

Confederacy  of  the  States:  Al- 
leged characteristic  distinction 
between  it  and  consolidation, 
xi.,  65 

Confederate  Republic :  Defined, 
xi.,  66;  tendency  of  the  federal 
principle  to  moderation  in  gov- 
ernment, 140  (see  Montesquieu, 
Constitution,  Republic) 

Confederation,  The:  Its  insuffi- 
ciency to  the  preservation  of 
the  Union,  xi.,  no;  picture  of 
the  public  distress  under  it, 
in;  its  great  and  radical  vice, 
legislation  for  communities  in- 
stead of  persons,  113  (seep.  182) ; 
difference  between  a  league  and 
a  government,  114;  want  of  a 
sanction  to  its  laws,  159;  State 
contributions  by  quotas,  a  fun- 
damental error  in  it,  162;  want 
of  a  power  to  regulate  com- 
merce, another  defect  in  it, 
166;  the  nugatory  power  of 
raising  armies,  another,  169; 
the  right  of  equal  suffrage 
among  the  States,  another,  170; 
anti-republican  character  of 
the  requisition,  in  certain  cases, 
of  a  vote  exceeding  a  majority, 
171 ;  want  of  a  judiciary  power, 
a  crowning  defect  of  the  Con- 
federation, 176;  the  organiza- 
tion of  Congress,  another;  peril- 
ous tendency  of  a  single  legisla- 
tive house,  178;  want  of  popu- 
lar consent  to  it,  another  defect 
in  it,  179;  it  acknowledges  the 
necessity  of  strength  in  the  fed- 
eral power,  180;  impracticable 
character  of  certain  provisions 
under  it,  305 ;  necessary  usurpa- 
tions of  Congress  under  it,  305; 
answer  to  the  question,  on  what 
principle  is  it  to  be  superseded, 
without  the  unanimous  consent 
of  the  parties  to  it,  365 ;  articles 
of  (appendix),  xii.,  349-361 

Congress  (see  Constitution,  States, 
Public   Debt) :    Extracts    from 


the  recommendatory  act  of 
Congress,  in  February,  1787, 
xi.,  318;  power  of,  under  the 
federal  Constitution,  over  a  dis- 
trict of  territory  not  exceeding 
ten  miles  square,  354;  its  power 
concerning  territory,  etc.,  be- 
longing to  the    United  States, 

358     .  ^       .  .         .       , 

Connecticut:     Provision     m     her 

Constitution  concerning  elec- 
tions, xii.,  58;  one  branch  of 
her  legislature  so  constituted 
that  each  member  of  it  is  elected 
by  the  whole  State,  95 ;  has  no 
constitutional  provision  for 
jury  trial,  in  either  criminal  or 
civil  cases,  310 

Consolidation:  The  plan  of  the 
Union  aims  only  at  a  partial 
consolidation,  xi.,  246;  desire 
of  the  States  to  guard  against 
improper  consolidation  of  them- 
selves into  one  simple  republic, 
xii.,  127 

Constitution  of  the  United  States 
(see  Union,  Confederation, 
Standing  Armies,  States, 
House  of  Representatives, 
Slaves)  :  Its  economy,  xi., 
97;  answer  to  an  objection 
drawn  from  the  extent  of  the 
country,  10 1;  its  guaranty  to 
the  States  of  a  republican  form 
of  government,  253-358;  neces- 
sity for  strength  in  the  federal 
government,  179;  wisdom  of 
the  provision  in  the  Constitu- 
tion concerning  the  military 
force,  183,  187,  199,  205,  259, 
331;  answer  to  the  objection, 
that  it  cannot  operate  without 
the  aid  of  a  military  force  to 
execute  its  laws,  211,  223;  rea- 
son why  the  execution  of  it  will 
probably  be  popular,  216;  laws 
under  it,  as  to  the  enumerated 
and  legitimate  objects  of  its 
jurisdiction,  will  be  the  su- 
preme law  of  the  land,  2 1 7-254 ; 
number  and  inconsistency  of 
the  objections  to  it,  300;  most 
of  the  capital  objections  to  it 
lie  with  tenfold  weight  against 
the  Confederation,  304;  its  con- 
formity   to    republican    prin- 


Index  to  the  Federalist 


;95 


Constitution  of  the  United  States 
{Continued) 
ciples,  308;  analogy  between 
the  mode  of  appointments  un- 
der it,  and  under  the  State  gov- 
ernments, 310;  neither  a  na- 
tional nor  a  federal  constitution 
but  a  composition  of  both,  313, 
317;  general  view  of  the  powers 
which  it  proposes  to  vest  in  the 
Union,  330;  the  power  of  de- 
claring war,  331;  the  power  of 
providing  a  navy,  337;  the 
power  of  making  treaties,  etc., 
343 ;  the  power  of  defining  and 
punishing  offences  on  the  high 
seas,  345 ;  prohibition  of  the 
importation  of  slaves  after 
1808,  346;  power  of  regulating 
commerce,  347 ;  powers  to  coin 
money,  to  piuiish  counterfeit- 
ers, and  to  regulate  weights  and 
meastu-es,  350;  power  to  estab- 
lish a  uniform  mode  of  natural- 
ization, 351 ;  power  to  establish 
uniform  laws  of  bankruptcy, 
353;  power  concerning  public 
acts,  records,  etc.,  353;  power 
of  establishing  post-roads,  353; 
power  of  granting  copyrights, 
354 ;  power  to  exercise  exclusive 
legislation  over  a  district  not 
exceeding  ten  miles  square,  if 
ceded  to  the  United  States,  354 ; 
power  concerning  treason,  356; 
power  of  admitting  new  States, 
357;  power  concerning  terri- 
tory, etc.,  belonging  to  the 
United  States,  357;  obligation 
to  guarantee  a  republican  form 
of  government  to  every  State  of 
the  Union,  358;  obligation  con- 
cerning public  debts  prior  to 
the  adoption  of  the  Constitu- 
tion, 363;  provision  concerning 
amendments,  364;  provision 
concerning  the  ratification  by 
nine  States,  365 ;  question,  what 
relation  is  to  exist  between  the 
nine  or  more  ratifying  States, 
and  the  non-ratifying  States? 
365;  disabilities  of  the  States 
created  by  the  Constitution, 
367 ;  power  given  by  it  to  Con- 
gress, to  make  all  laws  neces- 
sary and  proper  for  executing 


its  enumerated  powers,  372; 
four  other  possible  alternatives, 
which  the  Constitution  might 
have  adopted,  372;  provision 
that  the  Constitution,  laws,  and 
treaties  of  the  United  States 
shall  be  the  supreme  law  of  the 
land,  375;  oath,  etc.,  of  ofiicers, 
etc.,  to  support  the  Constitu- 
tion, 377  ;  consists  much  less  in 
the  addition  of  new  powers  to 
the  Union,  than  in  the  invigora- 
tion  of  its  original  powers,  385; 
its  provisions  concerning  the 
proper  degree  of  separation  be- 
tween the  legislative,  execu- 
tive, and  judiciary  powers,  xii., 
13;  peculiar  divisions  under  it, 
of  the  power  surrendered  by 
the  people,  24,  32,  43;  its  mode 
of  protecting  the  minority  from 
usurpations  by  the  majority, 
46;  three  characteristics  of  the 
federal  legislature,  56;  answer 
to  the  objection  that  it  contains 
no  bill  of  rights,  321  e/  seq.;  in 
the  sense,  and  to  the  extent 
contended  for,  bills  of  rights  are 
unnecessary  and  would  be  dan- 
gerous to  the  Constitution,  325 ; 
omission  of  a  provision  concern- 
ing the  liberty  of  the  press  de- 
fended, 326;  the  Constitution 
itself  is  a  bill  of  rights,  327  ;  an- 
swer to  an  objection  to  the  Con- 
stitution, founded  on  the  re- 
moteness of  the  seat  of  govern- 
ment from  many  of  the  States, 
329,  330;  answer  to  the  objec- 
tion that  it  wants  a  provision 
concerning  debts  due  to  the 
United  States,  331;  answer  to 
the  objection  as  to  expense, 
331;  Federal  Constitution  as 
agreed  upon  by  the  Convention 
(appendix),  362-380;  signers, 
380;  amendments,  384-392 
Construction,  two  rules  of,  xi.,  320 
Contracts:  Laws  in  violation  of 
private  contracts  a  source  of 
collision  between  the  separate 
States  or  Confederacies,  xi.,  50; 
provision  of  the  Constitution 
concerning  them,  370 
Convention  at  Philadelphia  in 
1787,  xi.,  12  ^/  seq.;  the  difficul- 


39^ 


Index  to  the  Federalist 


Convention  at  Philadelphia  in 
1787  {Continued) 
ties  it  must  have  experienced  in 
the  formation  of  a  proper  plan, 
287  et  seq.;  one  difficulty,  that 
of  combining  the  requisite  de- 
gree of  stability  and  energy  in 
government  with  the  inviolable 
attention  due  to  liberty  and 
the  republican  form,  288;  an- 
other, making  the  partition  be- 
tween the  authority  of  the  gen- 
eral government  and  that  of 
the  State  governments,  289; 
its  authority  to  propose  a  mixed 
Constitution,  318;  its  duties 
under  existing  circumstances, 
325;  its  plan  only  recommenda- 
tory, 327;  one  particular  in 
which  it  has  departed  from  the 
tenor  of  its  commission,  324; 
members    of    (appendix),    xii., 

381 

Conventions         for         correcting 

breaches  of  a  Constitution,  xii., 
39;  dangers  and  inconveniences 
of  frequent  appeals  to  the 
people.  33 

Copyrights:  Power  of  the  Consti- 
tution concerning  them,  xi.,  354 

Crete,  Cosmi  of,  xii.,  141 

Delaware  {see  States)  :  Provi- 
sion in  her  constitution  con- 
cerning the  separation  of  the 
legislative,  executive,  and  ju- 
diciary powers,  xii.,  21;  number 
of  representatives  in  the  more 
numerous  branch  of  her  legisla- 
ture, 74 

Democracy:  A  pure  one  defined, 
xi.,  74;  its  disadvantages,  74 

Departments  of  Power  (see 
States,  under  their  several 
titles) :  Meaning  of  the  maxim 
which  requires  a  separation  of 
them,  xi.,  370;  xii.,  23;  princi- 
ples of  the  British  Constitution 
on  this  subject,  xii.,  14,  15 ;  pro- 
visions of  the  State  constitutions 
concerning  it,  16,  23 ;  the  parti- 
tion among  them  to  be  main- 
tained, not  by  exterior  provi- 
sions, but  by  the  interior  struct- 
ure of  the  government,  43 

District:  Exclusive  legislation  of 


Congress  over  one  not  exceed- 
ing ten  miles  square,  xi.,  354 

Economy:  "The  money  saved 
from  one  object  may  be  usefully 
applied  to  another,"  xi.,  97 

Elections:  Frequency  of  them  in 
the  choice  of  the-Senate  would 
be  inconsistent  with  a  due  re- 
sponsibility in  the  government 
to  the  people,  xii.,  135 

England  (see  Great  Britain) 

Europe :  Her  arrogant  pretensions 
xi.,  88 

Faction:  Defined,  xi.,  67;  its  la- 
tent cause  inherent  in  human 
nature,  69 ;  the  various  and  un- 
equal distribution  of  property 
the  most  common  and  durable 
source  of  it,  70 

Federal  Farmer:  An  opponent  of 
the  Constitution,  xii.,  176 

Federal  Constitution  (appendix), 
xii.,  362-380 

Feudal  System:  Account  of  it,  xi., 

.i32,.38i 
Fisheries,  the,  xi.,  84 
Fox,    Charles   James:    his    India 
bill,  xii.,  211 

Geometry;  Why  its  principles  are 
received  without  difficulty,  xi., 
239;  incomprehensibility  of  one 
of  them,  240 

Georgia:  Provision  in  her  consti- 
tution, concerning  the  separa- 
tion of  the  legislative,  execu- 
tive, and  judiciary  powers,  xii., 
23;  number  of  representatives 
in  the  more  numerous  branch  of 
her  legislatiire,  74 

Germanic  Empire:  Its  origin,  con- 
stitution, and  disadvantages, 
xi.,  144 

Gold  and  Silver:  Principle  on 
which  the  States  are  inhibited 
to  make  any  thing  else  a  tender 
in  payment  of  debts,  xi.,  367 

Government  (see  Minorities) :  A 
government,  the  constitution 
of  which  renders  it  unfit  to  be 
entrusted  with  all  the  powers 
which  a  free  people  ought  to 
delegate  to  any  government, 
would  be   an  unsafe  and  im- 


Index  to  the  Federalist 


397 


Government  {Continued) 

proper  depositary  of  the  na- 
tional interests,  xi.,  185;  the 
danger  of  fettering  it  with  re- 
strictions which  cannot  be  ob- 
served, 202 ;  examples  among 
the  States  of  impracticable  re- 
strictions, 202;  remarkable 
featiire  of  every  government 
reported  by  ancient  history 
which  was  established  by  de- 
liberation and  consent,  295 ;  the 
reason  of  it,  297;  ought  to  con- 
trol the  passions,  and  to  be  con- 
trolled by  the  reason  of  the  pub- 
lic, xii.,  26,  34,  44;  the  greatest 
of  all  reflections  on  human  na- 
ture, 44 ;  wise  kings  will  always 
be  served  by  able  ministers, 
147;  the  true  test  of  a  good 
government  is  its  aptitude  and 
tendency  to  produce  a  good  ad- 
ministration, 181;  definition  of 
a  limited  constitution,  257;  the 
general  genius  of  a  government 
is  all  that  can  be  substantially 
relied  on  for  permanent  effects, 
320 

Great  Britain  {see  Standing  Ar- 
mies) :  Her  government,  xi., 
309;  the  House  of  Commons, 
xii.,  52,  85,  93;  the  House  of 
Lords,  156;  why  the  king's 
power  of  an  absolute  negative 
on  bills  has  been  long  disused, 
184;  Constitution  of  Great 
Britain,  concerning  a  separa- 
tion of  the  departments  of 
power,  15 

Grotius:  Cited,  xi.,  155;  xii.,  331 

High  Seas:  The  power  under  the 
Constitution  of  defining  and 
ptmishing  offences  on  them,  xi., 

345 
Holland:  Not  a  republic,  xi.,  309 
House  of  Representatives  {see 
Constitution,  Treaties) :  Quali- 
fications of  the  electors  and 
the  elected,  xii.,  50;  term  of 
a  member's  service,  52,  57,  64; 
biennial  elections  defended,  60, 
65 ;  argument  in  their  favor  de- 
rived from  the  time  they  afford 
a  representative  for  acquiring 
the  requisite  information,    60, 


63,  73;  the  ratio  of  representa- 
tion, 66,  72;  its  proposed  num- 
ber of  members  defended,  73, 
86;  provision  of  the  Constitu- 
tion concerning  the  ineligibility 
of  its  members  under  certain 
circumstances,  to  civil  offices, 
79;  imputed  tendency  of  the 
plan  for  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives, to  elevate  the  few 
above  the  many,  88;  provision 
for  the  future  augmentation  of 
its  members  considered,  95; 
economy  consulted  by  the  pro- 
vision for  its  temporary  num- 
ber, 10 1 ;  dangers  of  a  multi- 
tudinous representative  assem- 
bly, 99 ;  maxim  as  to  the  proper 
number  of  representatives,  102 ; 
why  more  than  a  majority 
ought  not  to  be  required  for  a 
quorum,  102;  provision  for 
regulating  elections  to  it,  103; 
less  likely  than  local  legislatures 
to  be  partial  to  particular  in- 
terests, 112;  advantage  of  uni- 
formity in  the  time  of  elections, 
123;  why  it  ought  to  have  no 
power  in  the  formation  of 
treaties,  236;  why  it  ought  to 
have  no  power  in  the  appoint- 
ment of  federal  officers,  252 

Human  Nature:  Its  fair  side,  xii., 
80;  a  power  over  a  man's  sup- 
port is  a  power  over  his  will, 
219,  266 

Hume,  David:  Citation  from  his 
essays,  xii.,  345 

Impeachments  {see  Senate,  Ju- 
diciary, States,  under  their 
several  titles) 

Indians:  Difficulties  concerning 
them  when  residing  within  a 
State,  xi.,  347 

Innovation:  Its  dangers  exagger- 
ated, some  of  its  beneficial  re- 
sults, xi.,  107 

Ireland,  Elections  m,  xii.,  54 

Jefferson,  Thomas:  Cited  to  show 
the  evils  in  the  constitution  of 
Virginia,  arising  from  the  want 
of  a  barrier  between  the  legisla- 
tive, executive,  and  judiciary 
powers,  xii.,  28;  his  draft  of  a 


398 


Index  to  the  Federalist 


Jefferson,  Thomas  (Continued) 
Constitution  cited,  31;  his  idea 
of  a  convention  for  correcting 
breaches  of  it,   32;   defects  of 
this  plan,  33-37 

Jenkinson,  Charles:  His  remarks 
introductory  to  his  bill  for 
regulating  the  commerce  be- 
tween Great  Britain  and  the 
United  States,  xi.,  167 

Judiciary  (see  Jury  Trial) : 
Want  of,  xi.,  176;  objections  to 
constituting  the  Supreme  Court 
a  tribimal,  either  singly  or 
jointly  with  the  Senate,  for  try- 
ing impeachments,  xii.,  157  et 
seq.;  mode  of  appointing  the 
judges,  their  tenure  of  office 
during  good  behavior,  254-270; 
the  weakest  of  the  three  depart- 
ments of  power,  256;  vindica- 
tion of  its  power  to  pronounce 
legislative  acts  void,  because 
contrary  to  the  Constitution, 
257;  the  independence  of  the 
judges  essential,  and  why,  261; 
peculiar  advantages  of  the  pro- 
vision in  the  Constitution  for 
their  support,  267;  precautions 
for  their  responsibility,  268; 
omission  of  a  provision  for  re- 
moving them  on  account  of 
inability,  defended,  268;  six 
classes  of  cases,  to  which  the 
judicial  power  of  the  federal 
government  ought  to  extend, 
270  et  seq.;  these  classes  of  cases 
compared  with  the  particular 
powers  given  by  the  Constitu- 
tion to  the  judiciary;,  275;  dis- 
tribution of  authority  in  the 
judicial  department,  279;  state- 
ment of  objections  to  the  Su- 
preme Coiu"t  having  undivided 
power  of  final  jurisdiction,  279; 
these  objections  answered,  280; 
the  power  in  Congress  of  con- 
stituting inferior  courts  consid- 
ered, 284;  why  the  objects  of 
these  courts  would  not  be  ac- 
complished by  the  instrumen- 
tality of  the  State  courts,  285; 
the  original  jurisdiction  of  the 
Supreme  Court  confined  to  two 
classes  of  causes,  286,  289; 
whether    the    Supreme    Court 


ought  to  have  appellate  juris- 
diction as  to  matters  of  fact, 
289,  293 ;  such  jurisdiction  does 
not  abolish  trial  by  jury,  293; 
summary  view  of  the  authority 
of  the  Supreme  Coiu*t,  293 ; 
whether  the  State  courts  are  to 
have  concurrent  jurisdiction  in 
regard  to  causes  submitted  to 
the  federal  jurisdiction,  294; 
in  instances  of  concurrent  juris- 
diction between  the  national 
and  State  courts  an  appeal 
would  lie  from  the  State  courts 
to  the  Supreme  Court  of  the 
United  States,  296;  whether  an 
appeal  would  lie  from  the  State 
courts  to  subordinate  federal 
judicatories,  298 

Jurisdiction:  Literal  meaning  of 
the  word  noticed,  xii.,  291,  note 

Jury  Trial:  Answer  to  the  objec- 
tion that  the  Constitution  con- 
tains no  provision  for  the  trial 
by  jury  in  civil  cases,  xii.,  299 
et  seq.;  in  no  case  abolished  by 
the  Constitution,  301,  304;  ex- 
amination of  the  remark  that 
trial  by  jury  is  a  safeguard 
against  an  oppressive  exercise 
of  the  power  of  taxation,  305; 
the  strongest  argument  in  its 
favor,  in  civil  cases,  is,  that  it  is 
a  security  against  corruption, 
306;  difference  between  the 
limits  of  the  jury  trial  in  the 
different  States  of  the  Union, 
308;  ineligible  in  many  cases, 
312;  proposition  concerning  it 
made  by  the  minority  of  Penn- 
sylvania, 311 ;  proposition  from 
Massachusetts,  315 

Legislation:  Evils  of  a  mutable, 
xii.,  130  et  seq. 

Legislature :  Danger  of  its  usurpa- 
tions in  a  representative  repub- 
lic, xii.,  24,  30,  35 

Louis  XIV.,   anecdote  of,  xi.,  21 

Lycian   Confederacy,  xi.,  67,  121, 

381 
Lycurgus,  xi.,  296 

Mably,  Abbe  de.,  on  a  confederate 
republic,  xi.,  42;  on  Achaean 
League,  140;  on  United  Neth- 
erlands, 156 


Index  to  the  Federalist 


399 


Maintenon,  Madame  de,  xi.,  36  ^ 

Marlborough,  John,  Diike  of,  xi., 
40;  Sarah,  Duchess  of,  36 

Maryland,  xi.,  171;  provision  in 
her  constitution  concerning  the 
separation  of  the  legislative, 
executive,  and  judiciary  power, 
xii.,  21 ;  concerning  her  Senate, 
142 

Massachusetts:  Insurrections  and 
rebellions  in  Massachusetts,  xi., 
42,  161;  provision  in  her  con- 
stitution, concerning  the  sep- 
aration of  the  legislative,  exec- 
utive, and  judiciary  powers, 
xii.,  18;  number  of  representa- 
tives in  the  more  numerous 
branch  of  her  legislature,  74; 
size  of  her  senatorial  districts 
compared  with  that  of  the  dis- 
tricts proposed  by  the  conven- 
tion, 94;  provision  concerning 
impeachments,  163,  note;  pro- 
position from,  in  regard  to  jury 
trial,  314 

Maxims :  Certain  maxims  in  geom- 
etry, ethics,  and  politics,  carry- 
ing internal  evidence,  xi.,  239 

Military  Force  {see  Constitution, 
Standing  Armies) 

Militia:  Its  disadvantages  and 
merits,  xi.,  199;  power  of  regu- 
lating it,  223 

Minorities :  Two  modes  of  protect- 
ing them  from  usurpations  by 
majorities,  xii.,  46  et  seq.;  to 
give  a  minority  a  negative  upon 
a  majority  which  is  always  the 
case  where  more  than  a  major- 
ity is  requisite  to  a  decision,  is, 
in  its  tendency,  to  subject  the 
sense  of  the  greater  number  to 
that  of  the  lesser,  xi.,  172 

Minos,  xi.,  296 

Mississippi,  Navigation  of  the,  xi., 
24,  84 

Money:  Power,  under  the  Consti- 
tution, of  coining  it,  xi.,  350, 
368 

Montesquieu:  Refutation  of  the 
erroneous  opinion  that  he  con- 
sidered the  republican  polity 
unsuited  to  a  large  extent  of 
country,  and  his  praise  of  a 
confederate  republic,  xi.,  62,  63, 
67,  358,  363;  true  extent  of  his 


doctrine,  requiring  a  separation 
of  the  legislative,  executive, 
and  judiciary  powers,  xii.,  14, 
1 7 ;  his  remarks  concerning  the 
judiciary,  256,  note 

Naturalization:  Provision  of  the 
Constitution  concerning  it,  xi., 

^351      . 

Navigation  of  the  lakes,  xi.,  84 

Navy :  Practicability  of  creating  a 
federal  navy,  xi.,  85 ;  its  advan- 
tages, 80;  the  Southern  States 
the  nursery  of  wood,  and  the 
Northern  of  men,  for  ships,  85; 
importance  of  establishing  a 
navy  as  early  as  possible,  194; 
power  in  the  federal  Constitu- 
tion of  erecting  one,  337 

Negative  on  bills  {see  Great 
Britain,  President) 

Netherlands:  Their  government, 
xi.,  152;  an  evil  attending  the 
constitution  of  the  States-Gen- 
eral, xii.,  237 

New  Hampshire :  Provision  in  her 
constitution,  concerning  the 
separation  of  the  legislative, 
executive,  and  judiciary  pow- 
ers, xii.,  18 ;  the  size  of  her  sena- 
torial districts,  compared  with 
the  size  of  the  districts  proposed 
by  the  convention,  94;  provi- 
sion concerning  impeachment, 
163,  note 

New  Jersey :  Provision  in  her  con- 
stitution, concerning  the  separ- 
ation of  the  legislative,  execu- 
tive, and  judiciary  powers,  xii,, 
20;  concerning  impeachments, 
1 63 ;  her  provisions  concerning 
the  unity  of  the  Executive  and 
a  council  of  appointment,  195 

New  York:  Her  controversy  with 
the  district  of  Vermont,  xi.,  45; 
-alleged  excellence  of  her  consti- 
tution, 189, 206 ;  provision  in  her 
constitution,  concerning  the  sep- 
aration of  the  legislative,  execu- 
tive, and  judiciary  powers,  xii., 
20;  number  of  representatives 
in  the  more  numerous  branch 
of  her  legislature,  74;  size  of  her 
senatorial  districts  compared 
with  that  of  the  districts  pro- 
posed by  the  convention,  94; 


400 


Index  to  the  Federalist 


New  York  {Continued) 

her  constitution  makes  no  pro- 
vision concerning  the  locality  of 
elections,  120;  provision  con- 
cerning impeachments,  163; 
provision  concerning  the  unity 
of  her  Executive,  195,  and  note; 
where,  by  her  constitution,  the 
qualified  power  of  negativing 
bills  is  vested,  227;  provision  of 
her  constitution,  prohibiting 
any  person  more  than  sixty 
years  old  from  being  a  judge, 
268 

North  Carolina:  Revolt  of  a  part 
of,  xi.,  42 ;  provision  in  her  con- 
stitution, concerning  a  separa- 
tion of  the  legislative,  execu- 
tive, and  judiciary  powers,  xii., 
22 

Numa,  xi.,  296 

Pennsylvania:  Disturbances  in, 
xi.,  45;  constitution  on  stand- 
ing army,  189;  concerning  the 
separation  of  the  legislative, 
executive,  and  judiciary  pow- 
ers, xii.,  20,  29;  number  of  rep- 
resentatives in  the  more  num- 
erous branch  of  her  legislature, 
74;  provision  concerning  im- 
peachments, 163,  note;  proposi- 
tion from  the  minority  of,  con- 
cerning jiu-y  trial,  311 

Pericles:  Examples  of  the  injury 
resulting  to  his  country  from 
his  personal  motives  of  action, 

^xi.,  35 

Poland:  Her  government,  xi.,  150, 
309;  an  evil  of  the  Polish  Diet, 
xii.,  237 

Political  Economy:  There  is  no 
common  measure  of  national 
wealth,  and  why,  xi.,  163 

Pompadour,  Madame  de,  xi.,  36 

Post- Roads:  Provision  of  the  Con- 
stitution concerning  them,  xi., 

T.  353 

President  of  the  United  States: 
Exaggeration  noticed  of  the  au- 
thority vested  in  him  by  the 
Constitution,  xi.,3 1 1 ;  the  power 
of  filling  casual  vacancies  in  the 
Senate  falsel}^  ascribed  to  him, 
xii.,  173;  why  the  power  of  fill- 
ing, during  the  recess  of  the 


Senate,  vacancies  in  federal 
offices,  is  confided  to  him,  174; 
peculiar  eligibility  of  the  mode 
provided  for  his  appointment, 
176  et  seq.;  why  the  office  of 
President  will  seldom  fall  to  the 
lot  of  any  man  not  qualified  in 
any  degree  to  fill  it,  180;  his 
constitution  compared  with 
that  of  the  King  of  Great  Brit- 
ain and  with  that  of  the  gover- 
nor of  New  York,  182 ;  his  quali- 
fied negative  on  bills,  184  et  seq. ; 
a  shield  to  the  Executive,  222; 
an  additional  security  against 
the  enacting  of  improper  laws, 
223;  the  power  likely  to  be  ex- 
ercised only  with  great  caution, 
224;  practice  in  Great  Britain, 
224;  cases  for  which,  chiefly,  it 
was  designed,  225 ;  where  vested 
by  the  constitution  of  New 
York,  227;  refutation  of  the 
doctrine  that  a  vigorous  Execu- 
tive is  inconsistent  with  the 
genius  of  a  republican  govern- 
ment, 193 ;  the  unity  of  the  Ex- 
ecutive "  defended,  194;  objec- 
tions to  a  plural  Executive,  195, 
objections  to  an  executive  coun- 
cil, 195,  205;  the  responsibility 
of  the  President  necessary,  203 ; 
the  term  of  four  years  for  his 
office  defended,  209  ^^  seq.;  his 
re-eligibility  defended,  212  et 
seq.;  danger  of  instability  in  the 
system  of  administration,  215; 
danger,  particularly,  from  fre- 
quent periodical  changes  of 
subordinate  officers,  216;  fal- 
lacy of  the  advantages  expected 
to  arise  from  ineligibility  for  re- 
election, 217;  the  provision  in 
the  Constitution  for  the  com- 
pensation of  the  President,  219; 
his  power  as  commander-in- 
chief  of  the  army  and  navy, 
228;  his  power  of  requiring  the 
opinions  in  writing  of  the  heads 
of  the  executive  departments, 
228;  his  power  of  pardoning, 
229;  answer  to  the  objection 
against  his  having  the  sole 
power  of  pardon  in  cases  of 
treason,  229;  his  power  in  rela- 
tion to  treaties,  2^2  et  seq.;  his 


Index  to  the  Federalist 


401 


President  of  the  United  States 
(Continued) 
power  in  regard  to  the  appoint- 
ment of  federal  officers,  239; 
less  apt  than  a  numerous  as- 
sembly of  men  to  consult  per- 
sonal or  party  feelings  in  ap- 
pointments, 241;  the  co-opera- 
tion of  the  Senate,  a  check  on  a 
spirit  of  favoritism  in  the  Presi- 
dent, 244;  his  power  in  regard 
to  the  removal  of  officers,  248; 
the  constitution  of  the  Presi- 
dent combines  the  requisites  to 
public  safety,  253 

Press:  The  liberty  of  the,  xii.,  326 ; 
tax  on  newspapers  in  Great 
Britain,  327  note 

Public  Acts:  Records,  etc.,  provi- 
sion of  the  Constitution  con- 
cerning them,  xi.,  353 

Public  Debt :  Would  be  a  cause  of 
collision  between  the  separate 
States  or  Confederacies,  xi.,  48; 
obligation  of  the  federal  gov- 
ernment concerning  public 
debts,  prior  to  the  adoption  of 
the  Constitution,  363 

Public  Lands :  A  fruitful  soiu-ce  of 
controversy,  xi.,  43,  45 

Removals  of  federal  officers  {see 
President) 

Representation:  The  principle  of 
it,  said  to  be  an  invention  of 
modem  Europe,  xi.,  102;  xii., 
52,  139;  idea  of  an  actual  repre- 
sentation of  all  classes  of  the 
people  by  persons  of  each  class 
visionary,  xi.,  270;  distinction 
between  the  principle  of  repre- 
sentation among  the  ancients, 
and  in  the  United  States,  xii., 
141 

Republic:  Defined,  xi.,  74  {see 
Confederate  Republic) ;  its  ad- 
vantages, 144  et  seq.;  error  of 
the  opinion  that  it  is  unsuitable 
to  a  large  district  of  country, 
loi ;  natural  limits  of  one,  103; 
one  of  its  weak  sides,  the  inlets 
which  it  affords  to  foreign  cor- 
ruption, 173;  defined  or  de- 
scribed, 308;  inapplicability  of 
the  title  to  certain  governments 
which   have   received   it,   308; 


obligation  of  the  federal  govern- 
ment to  guarantee  to  every 
State  a  republican  form  of  gov- 
ernment, 358 

Rhode  Island:  Provision  in  her 
constitution,  concerning  elec- 
tions, xii.,  58;  number  of  repre- 
sentatives in  the  more  numer- 
ous branch  of  her  legislature, 
74;  iniquitous  measures  of,  135 

Rome:  Senate  of,  xii.,  138;  trib- 
unes of,  144;  evils  arising  from 
her  having  plural  consuls  and 
tribunes,  195,  237 

Romulus,  xi.,  296 

Rutherford,  Dr.  Thomas,  cited, 
xii.,  331,  note 

Senate  {see  Elections,  Judici- 
ary) :  Will  generally  be  com- 
posed with  peculiar  care  and 
judgment,  and  why,  xi.,  212; 
its  constitution,  xii.,  125  ct  seq.; 
qualifications  of  senators,  125; 
appointment  of  senators  by  the 
State  legislatures,  126;  equality 
of  representations  in  the  Sen- 
ate, 126;  number  of  senators 
and  duration  of  their  appoint- 
ment, 128;  its  power  in  regard 
to  making  treaties,  146,  149; 
provision  for  the  biennial  suc- 
cession of  one  third  of  new  sena- 
tors, 148;  viewed  as  a  court  of 
impeachment,  154;  the  objec- 
tion which  would  substitute 
the  proportion  of  two  thirds  of 
all  the  members  composing  the 
Senate,  to  that  of  two  thirds  of 
the  members  present  consid- 
ered, 238;  its  co-operation  with 
the  President  in  appointments, 
a  check  on  favoritism,  240  et 
seq.;  answer  to  the  objection 
that  the  President,  by  the  in- 

-  fluence  of  the  power  of  nomina- 
tion, may  secure  the  complais- 
ance of  the  Senate  to  his  views, 
245,  246;  its  consent  would  be 
necessary  to  displace  as  well  as 
to  appoint  officers,  246 

Servius  Tullius,  xi.,  296 

Shays  Rebellion,  xi.,  37 

Ship-Building:  The  wood  of  the 
Southern  States  preferable  for 
It,  xi.,  85 


402 


Index  to  the  Federalist 


Slaves:  The  importation  of  them 
after  the  year  1808  prohibited, 
xi.,  346 ;  possess  the  mixed  char- 
acter of  persons  and  property, 
xii.,  67;  defence  of  the  provi- 
sion of  the  Constitution  com- 
bining them  with  free  citizens 
as  a  ratio  of  taxation,  6'j  et  seq. 

Socrates,  xii.,  75 

Solon,  xi.,  296 

South  Carolina:  Provision  in  her 
constitution,  concerning  the 
separation  of  the  legislative, 
executive,  and  judiciary  powers, 
xii.,  22;  provision  concerning 
elections,  58;  number  of  repre- 
sentatives in  the  more  numer- 
ous branch  of  her  legislature, 
74;  provision  concerning  im- 
peachments, 163,  note 

Sparta:  Her  Senate,  xii.,  138;  her 
Ephori,  140,  144 

Standing  Armies  (see  Constitu- 
tion) :  One  advantage  of  them 
in  Europe,  xi.,  52;  would  be  an 
inevitable  result  of  the  dissolu- 
tion of  the  Confederacy,  54; 
their  fatal  effects  on  liberty,  53 
(see  p.  332) ;  why  they  did  not 
spring  up  in  the  Grecian  repub- 
lics, 55  ;  nor  to  any  considerable 
extent  in  Great  Britain,  57, 
334;  wisdom  of  the  provision  of 
the  federal  Constitution  in  this 
particular,  188,  194,  207;  why 
it  is  better  for  an  army  to  be  in 
the  hands  of  the  federal  gov- 
ernment than  of  the  State  gov- 
ernments, 195,  196;  silence  in 
regard  to  them  in  the  constitu- 
tions of  tall  the  States  except  two, 
189, 200, 203 ;  provision  concern- 
ing them,  in  the  English  Bill  of 
Rights  framed  at  the  Revolution 
in  1688,  204;  highest  proportion 
of  a  standing  army  to  the  popu- 
lation of  a  country,  xii.,  10 

States  (see  Constitution,  Tax- 
ation, Union) :  Advantages  of 
an  unrestrained  intercoiu"se  be- 
tween them,  xi.,  87;  the  con- 
sequences of  the  doctrine  that 
the  interposition  of  the  States 
ought  to  be  required  to  give 
effect  to  a  measure  of  the 
Union,  118,  125;  easier  for  the 


State  government  to  encroach 
on  the  national  government 
than  for  the  latter  to  encroach 
on  the  former,  130,  244;  xii.,  6; 
the  State  governments  will  in 
all  possible  contingencies  afford 
complete  security  against  all 
invasions  of  public  liberty  by 
the  national  authority,  xi.,  217, 
xii.,  8,  23 ;  power  of  Congress  to 
admit  new  States  into  the 
Union,  xi.,  357;  obligation  of 
Congress  to  guarantee  a  repub- 
lican form  of  government  to 
every  State,  358  et  seq.;  provi- 
sion of  the  Constitution,  con- 
cerning its  ratification  by  nine 
States,  365;  why  the  State 
magistracy  should  be  bound  to 
support  the  federal  Constitu- 
tion, 377 ;  discussion  of  the  sup- 
posed danger  from  the  powers 
of  the  Union  to  the  State  gov- 
ernments, 378  et  seq.;  examina- 
tion of  the  comparative  means 
of  influence  of  the  federal  and 
State  governments,  384;  xii.,  3; 
provisions  in  the  constitutions 
of  the  several  States,  concern- 
ing the  separation  of  the  legis- 
lative, executive,  and  judiciary 
powers,  18  et  seq.,  24;  provi- 
sions, etc.,  concerning  elections, 
54,  103;  provisions,  etc.,  con- 
cerning the  size  of  electoral  dis- 
tricts, 73;  as  fair  to  presume 
abuses  of  power  by  the  State 
governments  as  by  the  federal 
government,  94;  "portions  of 
sovereignty  remaining  in  the 
individual  States,"  recognized 
by  the  Constitution,  127;  pro- 
visions of  the  constitutions  of 
the  several  States  concerning 
impeachments,  163,  note;  New 
York  and  New  Jersey  the  only 
States  which  have  entrusted 
the  executive  authority  wholly 
to  single  men,  195;  difference 
between  the  limits  of  the  jury 
trial  in  the  different  States,  308 

Sweden:  Corruption  the  cause  of 
the  sudden  despotism  of  Gusta- 
vus  III.,  xi.,  176 

Swiss  Cantons :  Their  government, 
xi.,  150,  360 


Index  to  the  Federalist 


403 


Taxes:  Indirect  taxes  the  most 
expedient  source  of  revenue  in 
the  United  States,  xi.,  91,  165; 
suggestion  of  a  tax  on  ardent 
spirits,  95;  taxation,  231  et  seq.; 
incompetency  of  the  Turkish 
sovereign  to  impose  a  new  tax, 
232 ;  intention  and  practical  de- 
fects of  the  old  Confederation 
in  regard  to  taxation,  232;  dis- 
tinction between  internal  and 
external  taxes,  234;  inadequacy 
of  requisitions  on  the  States, 
235;  advantages  of  vesting  the 
power  of  taxation  in  the  federal 
government,  as  it  regards  bor- 
rowing, 237;  positions  mani- 
festing the  necessity  of  so  vest- 
ing the  power,  240;  objections, 
242 ;  danger  of  so  vesting  the 
power  denied,  245 ;  except  as  to 
imports  and  exports,  the  United 
States  and  the  several  States 
have  concurrent  powers  of  tax- 
ation, 247;  no  repugnancy  be- 
tween those  concurrent  powers, 
249;  the  necessity  of  them,  250 
et  seq.;  dangers  of  restricting 
the  federal  power  to  laying 
duties  on  imports,  266;  effect  of 
exorbitant  duties,  266;  answer 
to  objections  to  the  power  of 
internal  taxation  in  the  federal 
government,  derived  from  the 
alleged  want  of  a  sufficient 
knowledge  of  local  circum- 
stances, and  from  a  supposed 
interference  between  the  rev- 
enue laws  of  the  Union  and 
those  of  the  particular  States, 
276;  suggestion  of  double  taxa- 
tion answered,  282 ;  evils  of  poll 
taxes  admitted,  but  the  pro- 
priety of  vesting  in  the  federal 
government  the  power  of  im- 
posing them  asserted,  283 ;  pro- 
vision of  the  Constitution,  con- 
cerning taxation,  371 

Theseus,  xi.,  296 

Titles  of  Nobility:  The  prohibi- 
tion of  them  the  comer- stone  of 
republican  government,  xi.,  370 

Treason :  Power  under  the  Consti- 
tution, concerning  it,  xi.,  356; 
why  the  power  of  pardoning  in 
cases    of    treason    is    properly 


vested  in  the  President  solely, 
xii.    229,  230 

Treaties ;  Power  under  the  Consti- 
tution, concerning  them,  xi., 
367;  why  they  ought  to  be  the 
supreme  law  of  the  land,  xii., 
149;  power  of  the  President  in 
regard  to  them,  149,  232,  238; 
why  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives ought  to  have  no  power 
in  forming  them,  236;  why  two 
thirds  of  the  senators  present 
are  preferable  to  two  thirds  of 
the  whole  Senate  as  a  co-or- 
dinate power  with  the  Presi- 
dent, in  regard  to  treaties,  237 

Tullus  Hostilius,  xi.,  296 

Union  {see  Confederacies,  Con- 
stitution) :  Its  importance,  xi., 
8;  its  capacity  to  call  into  ser- 
vice the  best  talents  of  the 
country,  1 2 ;  a  bulwark  against 
foreign  force  and  influence,  its 
capacity  to  prevent  wars,  16, 
22,  28;  a  safeguard  against  do- 
mestic insurrections  and  wars, 
34,  .51.  59,  79;  a  safeguard 
against  standing  armies  as  con- 
sequent on  domestic  insurrec- 
tions and  wars,  49,  56;  its  util- 
ity in  respect  to  commerce  and 
a  navy,  79,  88 ;  its  utility  in  re- 
spect to  revenue,  89,  100;  prin- 
cipal purposes  to  be  answered 
by  it,  180;  if  founded  on  con- 
siderations of  public  happiness, 
the  sovereignty  of  the  States,  if 
irreconcilable  to  it,  should  be 
sacrificed,  376 
United  Netherlands,  xi.,  152 
United  States:  Their  actual  di- 
mensions, xi.,  103 

Venice:   Not  a  republic,  xi.,  309 

Vice-President,  xii.,  181 

Virginia  (see  Jefferson,  Thomas): 
Provision  in  her  constitution, 
concerning  the  separation  of 
the  legislative,  executive,  and 
judiciary  powers,  xii.,  22,  27; 
was  the  colony  which  stood 
first  in  resisting  the  parliament-  ■ 
ary  usurpations  of  Great  Brit^ 
ain,  55 ;  was  the  first  to  espouse 
by  a  public  act  the  resolution  of 


404 


Index  to  the  Federalist 


Virginia  (Continued) 

independence,  55;  elections  un- 
der her  former  government,  55 

West  India  Trade,  xi.,  81 
Wolsey,  Cardinal,  xi.,  36 
Wyoming,  Lands  of:  Dispute  be- 


tween Connecticut  and  Penn- 
sylvania concerning  them,  xi., 

45 
Yates,  Abraham,  xii.,  227 
Zaleucus,  xi.,  296 


University  of 
Connecticut 

Libraries 


