Illustrations View of Philadelphia endpapers "An East Prospect of the City of Philadelphia; taken by George Heap from the Jersey Shore, under the Direction of Nicholas Scull Surveyor General of the Province of Pennsylvania.’’ This detail is from an engraving by Thomas Jefferys based on an etching of the city published in Thomas Jefferys, A General Topography of North America and the West Indies. Being a Collection of All the Maps, Charts, Plans, and Particular Surveys, That Have Been Published of That Part of the World, Either in Europe or America (London: R. Sayer, 1768). George Washington 10 Washington, who had been a delegate to Congress in September- October 1774 and May-June 1775, returned to Philadelphia at the end of May 1776 to confer with his former colleagues on the forth coming campaign. Taking advantage of this rare opportunity, John Hancock personally commissioned Charles Willson Peale to do por traits of the general and his wife, and during the course of his visit Washington spent a few hours sitting for Peale. “Rarely can a portrait be read so clearly as an historical document. Here is Washington at the end of his first campaign, and on the eve of that succession of humiliating defeats from which he and his army were to emerge in the next winter’s cold, tempered, beaten into a new and steely strength. . . . There is a candid quality about this portrait, too. It was painted in two sittings, probably short ones, with no time for a studied, formal likeness. The smile, the eyes, the tilt of the head, are uncertain, unwilling, slightly embarrassed. Washing ton not only hated to sit for a painter, but he did not like Hancock very well. The shade of awkwardness is unfortunately accentuated by the awkwardness with which the figure is painted—a final work undoubtedly done after the subject’s departure.” For both the citation to this appraisal of the painting by Charles Coleman Sellers and additional information on the circumstances pertaining to the commissioning of it, see note 3 to Hancock’s letter to Washington of May 16, 1776. Oil on canvas by Charles Willson Peale, 1776. Courtesy of the Brooklyn Museum, Dick S. Ramsay Fund. xxii
