xxiv Illustrations Thomas Jefferson’s Notes of Proceedings in Congress, 159 June 7-August 1, 1776 According to the leading authority on Jefferson’s writings, “Jeffer son’s extraordinary graphic account of the debates and proceedings in Congress during two critical months in the summer of 1776 is perhaps the best single source of information concerning the move ment toward independence and the formation of the Articles of Confederation.” They were composed for his friend James Madison, to whom they were sent in June 1783, and represent the only known attempt by a participant in the proceedings to recount systematically the steps by which Congress reached its momentous decisions on these subjects. Because the date of their composition is not known, controversy has long surrounded some specific statements contained in them, but the detection of errors in Jefferson’s account has not detracted significantly from the value of his testimony. Analyzed afresh in this volume, the notes retain their unique luster despite the discovery of new evidence challenging a few previously unques tioned Jefferson assertions. James Madison Papers, Library of Congress. Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant 225 Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant, a New Jersey lawyer, served two terms in Congress in 1776-77. During his first term Sergeant aligned himself with the more advanced supporters of American indepen dence like John Adams, and in June 1776 he returned to New Jersey in order to mobilize support for independence. As General Howe prepared to attack New York, Sergeant sent Adams a proposal to augment the New Jersey militia by raising a battalion of slaves, who would eventually be emancipated, but the “heretical” plan was never seriously considered. After the burning of his Princeton home by Hessians in December 1776, Sergeant moved to Philadelphia, where he joined the radical party and, after the end of his second term in Congress, served as attorney general of Pennsylvania from 1777 to 1780. Following his resignation from that office, Sergeant returned to the private practice of law, but he remained a proponent of change and later became a staunch advocate of the French Revo lution. After Sergeant fell victim to the yellow fever epidemic that struck Philadelphia in 1793, John Adams, who abhorred Sergeant’s enthusiasm for the revolution in France, declared that his death “saved the United States from a fatal revolution of Government”—a far cry from his assessment of Sergeant at the time of the First Congress as “a cordial Friend to American Liberty.” Oil on canvas by Charles Willson Peale. Princeton University.
