Illustrations xxvii break a tie in the Delaware delegation and permitted a unanimous vote on Richard Henry Lee’s independence resolution. With George Read opposed to the resolution and Thomas McKean supporting it, Rodney’s presence was necessary to ensure that every vote cast on the question was affirmative. The New York delegates, awaiting further instructions from their constituents, did not cast their state’s vote on the issue, and it was not until July 15 that New York’s concurrence —voted unanimously in the convention at White Plains on July 9— was recorded in the journals. Rodney, a Kent County planter and lawyer, who had been attend ing Congress intermittently since September 1774, continued to serve until October. Although thrice later reelected a delegate he never returned to Congress after 1776. He was long active in Delaware politics and was the state’s president from 1778 to 1781, during which time he played a crucial role in her war effort. Property of the Estelle Doheny Collection of Rare Books and Art Objects of the Edward Laurence Doheny Memorial Library, St. John’s Seminary, Camarillo, Calif. John Alsop 467 John Alsop, a New York merchant and delegate to Congress since 1774, looked forward to a “reconcilliation” with Great Britain “free from Taxation.’’ He was willing to support vigorous measures in order to oppose British tyranny, but not to the point of breaking up the British Empire. Accordingly, he resigned his seat in Congress after the New York Convention authorized the New York delegates to approve the Declaration of Independence. Unwilling to sever all ties with Great Britain, Alsop was equally reluctant to take an active part against his erstwhile colleagues in the revolutionary movement. Therefore he spent the remainder of the war living in comparative tranquillity in Middletown, Conn. In retrospect this was a wise decision, for it enabled him, upon the conclusion of peace, to return to his native state, where he eventually became president of the New York City Chamber of Commerce and an honored member of the Federalist party. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress. Congress’ July 19 Response to 488 Lord Howe’s Peace “Declaration” For months before Congress declared independence, moderates both in and out of Congress had opposed taking this momentous step on the ground that it would be more prudent to await the arrival of British peace commissioners. When Lord Howe failed to reach America with authority to negotiate peace before Congress had approved the Declaration, some Americans thought the delay had
