John Adams to Joseph Palmer May 16. 1776 We have Spent a Number of Days in considering the State of Boston and the Massachusetts, and after all I dont know whether you will think We have done enough. The five Ba[tta]llions now there, were ordered to be recruited to their full Compliment, and three additional Battailions are ordered to be raised. You have raised one—that may be put upon continental Pay, as one of the three. The other two must be raised as you can. I am fearfull that drained as New England is, you will meet with Difficulty to raise more Men. Yet I should hope, that Stimulated by so urgent a Motive as that of defending Boston and its Harbour, two more Battailions might be raised. In What Proportions they are to be raised in Mass. Bay, Connecticutt & New Hampshire is not determined. Whether this Point will be determined here, or not, I cant Say. The Story of Such formidable Numbers of foreign Mercenaries, I conjecture to be chiefly Puff, but yet there may be Some Truth in it. If you should be invaded, the Militia will do their Duty. If an Impression should be made, and the Enemy make a Lodgment again with you, Congress will maintain a Standing Army, if it can be raised to op pose them, but the Continental Expences are so enormous as to raise the most alarming Apprehensions in the Minds of all, and Gentlemen are very reluctant to raising Forces where there is not an actual Enemy to oppose. A Major General and a Brigadier General are ordered to take the Command, in Boston. 1 Can nothing be done to drive the Men of War from Nantaskett Road? A few Row Gallies here have attacked two formidable ships and driven them down to the Mouth of the River, where the Gallies cannot live. Would not a few of these, with some fire ships and Fire Rafts be very wholesome, to clear the Harbour of those Vermine. I never shall be happy untill I hear, they are driven out to sea. Yesterday the Gordian Knot was cutt asunder. Congress passed a Resolve in these Words as nearly as I can recollect them by my Memory. 2 “Whereas his Britanic Majesty, in Conjunction with his Lords and Commons, has, by a late Act of Parliament, excluded the In habitants of these united Colonies, from the Protection of his Crown, and Whereas no answer whatever, to the humble Petitions of the Colonies for Redress of their Grivances, and Reconciliation with Great Britain, has been, or is likely to be given: But the whole Force of that Kingdom, aided by foreign Mercenaries, is to be exerted for our Destruction, “And Whereas it is irreconcileable to Reason and good Conscience for the People of these Colonies, to take the oaths and affirmations 3
