May 16, 1776 7 John Hancock to the Massachusetts Assembly Gentlemen, Philadelphia May 16th. 1776 By the best Intelligence from Europe it appears, That the British Nation have proceeded to the last Extremity, and have actually taken into Pay a Number of foreign Troops; who, in all Probability, are on their Passage to America at this very Time. The Transactions of the Ministry are so much hid from View, that we are left to wander in the Field of Conjecture; and it is entirely to accident we are in debted, for any little Information we may receive with Regard to their Designs against us. This Uncertainty however, I hope, will have the proper Effect. It should stimulate the Colonies to greater Dilligence & Vigour in preparing to ward off the Blow, as our Enemies may, for any Thing we know, be at our very Door. In this Situation of our Affairs, it is highly necessary, that the Town of Boston should receive a Reinforcement, to prevent it from falling again into the Hands of such Miscreants, as have just been driven out of it. The Congress therefore considering the small Num ber of Troops in that Place, and the Impossibility of detaching any from the Continental Army which has lately been much weakened by the two Brigades consisting of ten Regiments ordered into Can ada, have come to the enclosed Resolutions, which I am commanded to transmit you, being fully assured, that you will do every Thing in your Power to carry the same into Effect as speedily as possible. 1 I enclose to you also blank Commissions for the Captains and Subalterns of the two Regiments to be raised in Massachusetts Colony, to be filled up with the Names of the Persons you may please to appoint. With Respect to the Field Officers, I have it in Command to request, you will please to recommend to Congress as early as possible the Names of Persons you judge proper for those Offices, in Order that they may be appointed & commissioned by the Congress. As soon as I have the Honour to receive your Recommen dations, I will lay them before Congress, and immediately upon their Determination transmit you the Commissions filled up ac cordingly. 2 I have the Honour to be with every respectful sentiment, and much Esteem, Gentlemen, your most obed. hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt. [P.S.] The Congress have been pleased to appoint Horatio Gates Esqr to be a Major General and Thomas Mifflin Esqr to be a Brigadier General in the Continental Army. I have wrote to Genl. Washington to request him, if agreeable, that those Gentlemen may take the command at Boston. I am prevented inclosing a Resolve by means of the Secy with the Journals being out of Town. It is a Resolution for the liberation
