14 May 16, 1776 by submitting to the committee a draft Virginia constitution he composed while in Philadelphia. The use made of this draft cannot be precisely determined, but the editor of Jefferson’s papers has examined the issue in great detail and assessed Jefferson’s influence on the committee and its chairman, George Mason. Two of Jefferson’s colleagues in Congress, George Wythe and Richard Henry Lee, did return to Virginia in June, and Wythe carried with him to the convention a draft consti tution used by Mason. Indeed, Jefferson is known to have made three drafts of the document before Wythe left Philadelphia on June 13. He was probably at work on the first of them at the time he was writing this letter to Nelson, since it is apparent from internal evidence that this initial draft was completed sometime before May 27, when he received resolutions from the Virginia Convention con taining provisions subsequently incorporated into his second and third drafts. Although these drafts only indirectly relate to Jefferson’s work in Congress, they are products of the pen of one of the principal participants in its deliberations during a highly significant period in its history and clearly reflect his most funda mental political and constitutional views. Furthermore, it is now known that Jefferson incorporated passages from them into the Declaration of Independence when he drafted it during the last weeks of June. For a critical analysis and the printed texts of these drafts, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:329-65. See also the letters written to Jefferson during this period by the president of the Virginia Convention, Edmund Pendleton, in response to several letters from Jefferson that do not survive, ibid., pp. 296-98, 471-72, 479-80, 484-85, 488-91, 507-8. 4 “Our old lodgings,’’ which Jefferson and Nelson shared when they had been in Philadelphia simultaneously during the autumn of 1775, is a reference to the house of Benjamin Randolph on Chestnut Street between Third and Fourth. A few days after writing this letter, Jefferson took lodging in the house of Jacob Graff, which subsequently became celebrated as the house in which he wrote the Declaration of Independence. See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:293. Documentation on the residences of the delegates while they were in Phila delphia attending Congress is generally meager, but John Adams compiled an interesting, fragmentary list of most of those in attendance in late April 1776 containing notations on the residences of approximately half of them. See Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:237-38. “That is, James McClurg. See Jefferson to John Page, May 17, 1776, note 2. “For the Virginia Convention’s instructions, see Richard Henry Lee to Edmund Pendleton, May 12, 1776, note 3. ’A draft of another letter written at about this time, dealing chiefly with the affairs of Jefferson’s mother’s relatives and apparently intended for his uncle William Randolph in Bristol, England, is in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:408-10. 8 For the continuation of this letter, see Jefferson to Nelson, May 19, 1776. Massachusetts Delegates to George Washington Sir Philadelphia May 16. 1776 Congress yesterday appointed General Gates a Major General and Mr Mifflin a Brigadier General, in the Continental Army, and or dered the Five Battallions in the Massachusetts Bay to be com- pleated to their full Compliments and those Additional Battallions to be raised forthwith, in the Eastern Department, and further have requested your Excellency to send a Major General and Brigadier General to take the Command, in that Department. We presume not to judge of the Exigencies of the public service,
