May 16, 1776 so far as to suggest any Plan of ours, for your Consideration, any further than to assure your Excellency that no officers in the service would be more agreable to Us, and We have Reason to believe to our Constituents, to take the Command in that Department, than the Generals Gates and Mifflin. 1 We are, sir, with great Esteem and Respect, your Excellencies Friends and most obedient humble servants, John Hancock John Adams Samuel Adams R. T. Paine Elbridge Gerry RC (PHi). Written by John Adams and signed by John Adams, Samuel Adams, Gerry, Hancock, and Paine. ’See also Samuel Adams to George Washington, May 15, 1776. Artemas Ward continued in command at Boston, while Gates was given the Canadian command by Congress on June 17, 1776. JCC, 5:448; and John Hancock to Artemas Ward, April 26, 1776, note 1. Secret Committee to George Washington Sir Philada. May 16th. 1776 The enclosed letters will discover to your Excellency that the Con gress have ordered Two hundred & Forty four Muskets to be for warded from Rhode Island to New York for the Continental Service and as it is probable you may think proper to give some directions about the mode of getting them safe down we trouble you with these open letters that you may have an opportunity of forwarding them & of adding thereto what you may think Necessary. 1 We have the honor to be, Your Excellencys Obedt hble servts. By order of the Secret Committee, Robt Morris, ChairMan RC (DLC). Written and signed by Morris. ’See JCC, 4:357. For Washington’s May 20 response, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:63-64. One of the enclosed letters, written by Morris on the 16th on behalf of the committee to Nicholas Brown and John Brown, directed “fourteen Muskets in your hands belonging to the Continent to be forwarded immediately to his Excellency Genl. Washington at New York.” Brown Papers, RPJCB. Nicholas Brown’s May 27 letter to Washington, explaining why only four muskets were sent, is in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:768. William Whipple to Meshech Weare Sir, Philadelphia 16th May 1776 I have the pleasure to inclose you a Resolution of Congress for raising a Battn in New Hampshire. The design is that they are to be
