16 May 16, 1776 station’d at Portsmth, subject, however, to the Officer commanding in the Eastern department. 1 Its the wish of Congress that the men may be inlisted for three Years, but if they cannot be prevailed on to engage for a longer time they may be inlisted for one Year, the Battalion to consist of 728 men including officers. Please to observe they are not to be in pay ’till arm’d & accoutred. The five Battalions that are at Boston are to be recruited to their full Compliment 8c three new ones rais’d, two Battalions are also station’d for the Present at Road Island, in all Eleven Battalions in the Eastern de partment [and] two Genl Officers will be sent there. 2 Britain will no doubt use Her utmost efforts this summer to effect the Infernal designs of the King 8c his Ministry. It is therefore neces sary that we shod exert ourselves to frustrate their plans which with divine assistance no doubt we shall be able to accomplish. If any men can be spar’d besides the Battalion before mention’d, I hope all proper incouragement will be given to the recruiting officers for filling up those in Boston. Inclosed is recommendation to the Col onies to assume all the powers of Government which I hope will meet your approbation. 3 I am with great Respect, Your Most Obt Sevt, Wm Whipple RC (DLC). ^JCC, 4:357. For further information on the original New Hampshire request for a Continental battalion, see Whipple to Weare, March 2, 1776. 2 See Samuel Adams to James Warren, May 12, 1776, note 2. ‘JCC, 4:342, 357-58. See also John Adams to James Warren, May 15, 1776. Oliver Wolcott to Samuel Lyman Sir, Philidelpa. 16 May 1776 Your Letter of the 4t instant came safe, there was not the least Occasion of an Excuse on Acco. of the length of your Letters, you may be assured that I read them with great Pleasure. I suppose this tho’t might occur to you, as I sometimes Write you Letters the whole of which is on the outside. This you might charitably suppose was owing to the Want of Time, and that you would learn the News from the Letter inclosed if any. I hope you will not fail of Writing and Write as long as you please. You Acco. of the Cherokee is what might have been expected from a Man of his extreme ill nature. The News is inclosed. A Revolution in Government, you will perceive is about to take Effect. May God grant a happy establish ment of it, and security to the Rights of the People. If this Recom mendation takes Effect, which undouptedly it will, There will be an instance Real not implyed or Ideal, of a Government founded in
