20 May 17, 1776 to determine the fate 8c fortunes of Millions who have placed the most implicit Confidence in us. That a Seperation will take place seems almost evident. But in my Judgment there are a number of Precautions which should precede it. A Naval Alliance to protect our trade must be requisite, yet this is not obtained, nor do we know what friends we can procure. Our own Fleet is trifling as yet & before it will increase I fear some of them will fall into the Enemys Hands, as they are every where sought after 8c if seen will be taken. A Continental League was surely indespensable, 8c so was a Union of the Colonies. Justice has long since called forth for equal Representation here that the Wealth of the great Colonies might not be disposed of by Men who represent scarcely any Colony at all 8c who with all the pedantic Impudence will harangue us for Hours upon their Importance. These with a variety of other things seemed absolutely necessary to me. As I had long foreseen the Necessity of taking up Governt. in our Colony particularly, I had thrown my thoughts together on that Subject for yr Convention a Pamphlett containing which I send you 8c beg your opinion of it. 5 As it is the first Essay of a poor Genius unassisted by a good Education you will shew it all the Indulgence in yr Power 8c allow much for the Zeal of the Author, who wishes nothing so ardently as to see his Country happy 8c flourishing. We have no certain Accts, from Canada, nor any of the arrival of Troops to the Northward tho daily expected. I fear you will say that tho you meant to get a Letter now 8c then from me you did not expect to have your patience tryed by such long Letters. Therefore I will appologize for this 8c be done when I have asured you of my regard for yr Family 8c my desire that you will make it known to them 8c that with all respect I am Sir, your affece Nephew, Carter Braxton [P.S.] Mrs. Braxton begs me to add her Respects to you 8c Family. RC (MeHi). 1 See Braxton to Landon Carter, April 14, 1776. Braxton’s letter to Robert Wormeley Carter has not been found. 2 See JCC, 4:342, 357-58; and John Adams to James Warren, May 15, 1776. 3 The only other surviving contemporary testimony on this vote is contained in the May 15, 1776, diary entry of James Allen, a Philadelphia lawyer who was not a delegate, in which he reported that the preamble carried by a vote of 7 to 4. If Braxton’s recollection is correct, the alignment of the colonies on the motion was probably: New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Vir ginia, and South Carolina in favor; New York, New Jersey, Delaware, and North Carolina opposed; and Pennsylvania and Maryland abstaining. If, however, Allen can be relied upon, the motion was probably supported by the six colonies listed above plus North Carolina (Joseph Hewes), with Pennsylvania voting in opposi tion. Georgia delegates Button Gwinnett and Lyman Hall did not attend until May 20. See JCC, 4:367; and “Diary of James Allen, Esq., of Philadelphia,
