May 17, 1776 21 Counsellor-at-Law, 1770—1778,” PMHB 9 (July 1885): 187. For additional infor mation on Hewes’ position on this issue, suggesting that he supported men of Richard Henry Lee’s persuasion in behalf of more vigorous measures leading in the direction of independence, see Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Ludwell Lee, May 28, 1776, note 4. 4 For additional information on the reaction of the Maryland delegates to the congressional resolutions of May 10 and 15 advising reorganization of provincial governments, see Thomas Stone to James Hollyday?, May 20, 1776. See also the Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety, June 11, 1776, for their response to Richard Henry Lee’s proposed resolutions of June 7, which confronted them with a similar dilemma and led them to call upon the council of safety to reconvene the Maryland Convention at once. 5 Carter Braxton, An Address to the Convention of the Colony and Ancient Dominion of Virginia; on the Subject of Government in General, and Recommend ing a Particular Form to their Confederation (Philadelphia: John Dunlap, 1776). Samuel Chase to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir. Montreal, May 17. 1776 I thank You for your Letter of the 3rd of April which Mcfinie delivered Me last Tuesday. 1 Our Letters to Congress will give You all the Information in our Power relative to our Affairs in this Colony. I am at a Loss to express my Astonishmt. at the Conduct of Congress. Almost two Months ago they voted 4 Battalions, and since 6 more Battalions for this Country, without the least provisions for their Support. We have now 4,000 Troops in Canada &: not a Mouthful of food. Pork is not to be procured. Wheat may be bought for Specie, but we have none. Necessity has compelled Us to take provisions. Will this contribute to regain the Affections of this people? I entirely agree with You as to the Importance of fortifying the pass at De Chambault. On the Day after We arrived, it was determined to possess that post and Jacques Cartier—but how can it be done? On Tuesday Colo. Maxwell was at Jacques Cartier with a small force, and Genl. Thomas was at De Chambault with 900 Men. They have none or very little provisions. They have no Cannon or a few pieces without Carriages (the greater part of the Carriages fell into the Enemies Hands) and they have but little powder. Eight Tons came with Us, We lost one, but can get no certain account of the rest. Nothing is wanting but a Wind for the Enemies frigates to pass the falls of Richlieu, &: then all Communication by water will be cut off. General Arnolds Letter will give You all we know of our affairs below. I beg You would seriously attend to our Letters to Congress. Our affairs here are almost desperate. Unless immediate attention is given to this Country it will not only be lost to Us, but
