24 May 17, 1776 informed by two Indians that a body of Savages about 100 headed by some English Soldiers number unknown, were come within 9 miles of his Post with an intention to attack it, brought this intelli gence himself to town and left his garrison consistg. of 300 effective Men. It is true according to his Accot. they were badly provided to receive the enemy & had been 4 days without any other provisions than bread; this Intelligence we conceive might have been communi cated to the Commanding Officer here, by any other person, as well as Colonel Bedel. Col. Paterson who now commands in Montreal, immediately ordered a detachment from his Regt, of 150 Men to reinforce the Cedars. A fresh Supply of provisions & Amunition was sent with the detachment. We apprehend the report to be altogether groundless or occasioned by some very triffling circumstance. The importance of this Colony will be made known to you by Doer. Franklin, it is a fine Wheat Country, it produced in 1771 for exportation 4 hundred &: 60 thousand bushels of Wheat. The Indian Trade is an object already sufficient to engage the attention of the Colonies & growing yearly of more importance. The inclinations of the common people are sd to be in general with us, but they are timorous &: unsteady, no assistance can be expected from them unless they find themselves supported by an army able to cope with the English Forces. Should we be driven out of the Country, we make no doubt considerable numbers of them, would be prevailed on thro’ fear to join the British Troops. We refer you for intelligence relating to the State of our Army below to Genl. Arnolds letters above men tioned which we make no doubt Genl. Schuyler has forwarded to Congress. Necessity has compelled Us to desire a Mr. Wm. McCarty to exe cute the Office of Deputy Quarter Master Genl, and we hope Congress will send that Gentleman a Commission of this Date. 1 Our Generals here exercise the power of Appointing Officers but we have not nor do we remember that they have any such powers. We flatter Our selves Congress will excuse our Exceeding our Commission in such Instances where the public Good requires it. In the present situation of our Affairs it will not be possible for us to carry into execution the great Object of our instructions, as the possession of this country must finally be decided by the Sword; we think our stay here no longer of service to the public. We are however willing to sacrifice our time, labour, and even our lives for the good of our Country and we wait with Impatience the further orders of Congress and are with great respect, for yourself & Congress, Sir, Your most Obedt., humble Servants, Samuel Chase Ch. Carroll of Carrollton RC (DNA: PCC, item 166). In a clerical hand and signed by Carroll and Chase.
