26 May 17, 1776 John Hancock to Thomas Cushing My Dear Sir Philada. 17th May 1776 I wait with the greatest Impatience to hear from you on the Sub ject of my late Letters, surely they must have got to hand. The Bills I wrote you I was to pay as soon as you Advis’d me of their being honour’d, you have never wrote me the fate of, & I in honour have been oblig’d to pay them, if to my own Loss I can’t help it. Pray let me regularly hear from you. I paid Mr Barrell as you Desir’d for the Flour, & have also paid your Bill for 700 Dolls. I shall Send you some more money next Week. For News Refer you to my Publick Letter to the Assembly. 1 I hope Gates & Mifflin will soon be in Boston to Command, the former is made Major Genl., the latter Brigr. Inclos’d is the paper which [will] afford you a Resolve, that will at least afford some Conversation, If it is not Independence, it looks a good deal like it, we must Come to it. Remember me to all friends. Dont forget my Military Department in the Province. I am exceeding fond of it, & will if honor’d with that Command exert myself to the utmost, pray let it be Settled soon, I long to be improv’d in that way. Let me know the particulars of the Elections when they take place. I have no receipt for the last Money. Adieu. I am greatly Distress’d on the Melancholy Event of the Death of my Dear Aunt, she died very suddenly at Fairfield. How shall I Conduct as to her will, I do not Chuse to Send it down for fear of Accidents, will it do to Send it hereafter, do Advise me about it. My & Mrs Hancocks best Respects to Mrs Cushing, Miss Peggy, Mr & Mrs Avery & yourself & Connections. I am truly, your Real Friend & very hum John Hancock [P.S.] I have Remov’d into a noble House in an Airy open place, in Arch Street corner of Fourth Street, where I shall be Glad to See you. I have a Bed for you. I have wrote by order of Congress to Genl Washington for him to Come to this City for a few days to Consult. 2 RC (MHi: Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities deposit). 1 See John Hancock to the Massachusetts Assembly, May 16, 1776. 2 For a discussion of Hancock’s invitation to General Washington, see Hancock to Washington, May 16, 1776, note 3. Joseph Hewes to James Iredell Dear Sir Philadelphia 17th May 1776 This being a day of humiliation, fasting and prayer (or in Vulgar
