28 May 17, 1776 have been so long out of the political world that I am almost a new man in it. You will have heard before this reaches you of the naval engagement in the Delaware. There are letters in town it is said from General Sullivan which inform that the lower town of Quebec is taken and a breach made in the wall of the upper; but I do not know myself that there are such letters; and if there be, whether Sullivan mentions his intelligence as authentic, as he could not then have reached Quebec himself. As to the articles of salt, blankets &c. every colony I beleive will be to shift for itself, as I see nothing but the measure of a foreign alliance which can promise a prospect of import ing either, and for that measure several colonies, and some of them weighty, are not yet quite ripe. I hope ours is and that they will tell us so. But as to salt it is a shame we should say a word about it; the means of supplying the world with it is so much in our power, that nothing but the indolence of Southern constitutions could suffer themselves to be in danger of want. Mr. Innis tells me Gwatkin’s books are left with Molly Digges for sale. I should be much obliged to you if you could procure and send me here a catalogue of them; and in the mean time purchase two of them which I recollect he had and have long wished to get; Histoire des Celtes de Pelloutier. 2. vols. 12mo. and Observations on Gardening printed by Payne, London. 8vo. For their cost I will get you to apply to Colo. Nelson to whom I can refund it here. This office will perhaps remind you of a box of books you have of mine which I am in hope some of the military or commissary’s waggons will furnish you with an opportunity of sending to Albemarle, to Richmond, or to Mr. Eppes’s in Charles City. Adieu. May. 19. 1776. For the melancholy reverse of the Quebec news received yesterday I must refer you to Nelson. 1 For our disappoint ment in the office of director to the hospital, to Innis who will be with you soon, and will give yourself and Mc.lurgh a full account in what manner we were surprised out of it. 2 RC (NN). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:293-94. ’See Jefferson to Thomas Nelson, May 19, 1776. 2 Letters of John Page and James McClurg to Jefferson, dated April 6, 1776, and asking Jefferson to use his influence to secure McClurg’s appointment as "Physician to the Continental Forces in Virginia,” are in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:286-87. Although William Rickman was appointed director and chief physician of the hospital in Virginia on May 18, McClurg did become surgeon general of Virginia state troops in 1777. See JCC, 4:364. Robert R. Livingston to John Jay Dear John Philadelphia 17th May 1776. I was so unfortunate as to miss the last post by which means I was
