May 17, 1776 29 prevented from letting you hear what I had done about geting you lodgings at Bristol, & the important business that had been transacted here before I arrived. I could not find a tolerable house in Bristol, the rooms that were unoccupied were all too small &: hot for invalids, & there was no house that could furnish more than two so that we could not have been together, tho’ had the rooms been tolerable we might have made out by taking two adjoyning houses had not one of the landlady’s nose placed such an obstruction in my way as my regard for Your future posterity rendered it impossible for me to get over. However I have provided three Bed rooms & a large parlour in a retired country house, about two miles from Bristol upon the banks of the Shamony where we shall have plentiful provision for our horses, good fishing before the door, a tavern about a 14 of a mile from us to lodge our friends, & in short every thing that we can wish to render our situation agreeable. The lodgings are to be en tered upon next Wednesday, by which time I hope to see you & Mrs. Jay there. It is absolutely necessary you slid, come to settle the ar rangement of our family And (what is much more important) to set tle another arrangement which I most heartily wish we could unite in making. Mr. Duane tells me he has enclosed you a copy of the resolution of the 15th. 1 I make no observations on it in this place for fear of accidents. It had occationed a great alarm here, & the anxtious folk are very fearful of its being attended with many ill consequences next week when the Assembly are to meet. Some points of the last importance are to be agitated (as we imagine) very early, I wish to God you could be here. If you do not get this length meet me at least at Bristol next week from whence you may return in a few days & send some of our delegates as the province will otherwise be often unrepresented, since I find it inconsistent with my health to be close in my attendance in Congress. You have by this time sounded our people, I hope they are satisfied of the necessity of assuming a new form of Government. Let me hear (if you dont come yourself) in what channel it will probably run. Let me know the mode in which new powers (for the old are insufficient) are to be obtained. If by a dissolution it will be necessary to go home. Let me also know in what sphere you yourself chuse to move. You are so necessary here, that I will consent to no law which will make the honours I wish you to possess inconsistent with your attendance on Congress. I have a thought which if carried into execution might render ours the favourite colony, &: dispute the absurd claims of our neighbours, which may hereafter be very troublesome, but it requires much con sideration, &: may perhaps be impracticable. I will reserve it (with other of my reveries) till one of those happy hours in which I permit myself to think aloud in your hearing. If you should see Benson it would not be amiss to let him know that I am a little hurt at his conduct, it may induce him to alter it
