30 May 17, 1776 without my coming to an explanation which might possibly occasion a coolness which I wish to avoid. Farewell, may heaven bless you, & put an end to these devils which break in so cruelly upon our domestick enjoyments, & ever render our reflection on past pleasures, the most agreeable part of our present friendship. Your friend &c., R R Livingston RC (NNC). Addressed: “To Coll. John Jay, New York.” 1 See James Duane to John Jay, May 16, 1776, note. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney Sir Philadelphia May 17th 1776 Inclosed I have Sent you the printed Copy of the Resolution of Congress mentioned in my last. 1 Most of those here who are Termed the Cool Considerate Men think it amounts to a declaration of In dependance. It Certainly Savour’s of it, but you will See and Judge for Your Self. In the Evening-Post of Yesterday there is the following Paragraph under the New-York head, dated May the 15th 1776— “An Express Arrived here on Munday Evening from the Nothern Army, who brought Letters from Generals Schuyler & Sullivan Which Mention that our people had possessed and destroyed part of the Lower Town of Quebec, and made a breach in the Walls of the Upper Town.” 2 Yesterday, for the first time since I came to Town, I Was Confined to my Room all day by fit of the Astma, but now bravely again am Yours &c Caesar Rodney P.S. I have inclosed and directed to you one Copy of the Resolution for your Self, one for Coll. Haslet, one for Doctr. Tilton and one for Doctr. McCall. C. R. RC (NjR: Elsie O. and Philip D. Sang deposit, 1972). y JCC, 4:342, 357-58. 2 For the reception of contrary news, see Rodney to Thomas Rodney, May 18, 1776. William Whipple to Meschech Weare Sir, Philadelphia 17th May 1776 The inclos’d Resolution of Congress 1 shod, have gone yesterday, but I had sent off my letter before I discoverd the Omission. Congress have reservd to themselves the appointment of Field Officers, but they are nominated by the Assembly, Convention, or Committee of the Colony where the Regiments are rais’d, it will therefore be necessary
