May 18, 1776 31 that the names of the field officers shod, be transmitted here in order that the Commissions may be fill’d up, the President will forward to you the Blank Commissions for the other officers. 2 When I think of the number of men &: Arms gone from the Eastern Colonies, I cannot help feeling for their scituation if a powerful attack shod be made there, but doubt not proper steps are taken to furnish arms, I think every Person who can do any thing towards making Arms shod, be employed in that Business. Britain will no doubt exert her utmost efforts for our destruction, but if they are repulsed in the manner I expect this Campaign, I am very confident they never will atempt another. This Summer will in all probability be the warmest America ever saw. May the Supreme Governour of the Universe Protect, & Defend us, Guide our Councils &: Prosper our Arms. I am with Great Respect, Your Most Obt. Servt, Wm Whipple May 18. Coll Bartlett arrivd last Evening very much Fatigued. RC (PPRF). 1 See JCC, 4:357. 2 On June 12 the New Hampshire Assembly nominated James Hackett, Thomas Tash, and David Copp as field officers for the battalion. N.H. State Papers, 8:141. John Adams to James Warren My dear sir May 18. 1776 Yours of 8 May reed this Morning, 1 and am as I ever have been much of your opinion that the Enemy would return to the Massa chusetts if possible. They will probably land at Hingham or Brain tree, or somewhere to the Northward of Boston, not make a direct Attempt upon Boston it self, the next Time. I hope no Pains, no Labour or expence will be neglected to fortify the Harbour of Boston however. Your Militia you say is in a broken state, but dont explain what you mean. I was in hopes that the late Militia Law had put them in a Good Condition. You must depend upon them chiefly. We have been labouring here to procure you Some assistance, and have obtaind a Vote, that the 5 Battailions now with you be filled up, and three Additional ones raised, two in Mass., one in Connecticutt. A Major General and Brigadier are to go to Boston. You must not hesi tate at any Thing for your own Defence. New York and Canada will take an infinite Expence. We did our best, but could procure no more at present. If an Impression should be made on you, the Conti nent will interpose, but they never will believe it untill it takes Place. This Day has brought us the Dismals from Canada. 2 Defeated most
