May 18, 1776 33 can never be retrieved without it. Pray let me know if any sum can be had in our Province. I shall inclose you a News Paper, which when you have read send along to Braintree. I am and have been these twelve Months, fully of your opinion that We have nothing to depend upon for our Preservation from Destruction, but the kind Assistance of Heaven to our own Union and vigorous Exertions. I was ripe therefore for as explicit Declara tions as Language could express Twelve Months ago. But the Colo nies seperately have neglected their Duty, as much as the Congress, and We cannot march faster than our Constituents will follow us. We dont always go quick enough to keep out of their Way. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. ’Warren’s May 8 letter to Adams is in Warren-Adams Letters, 1:339-41. 2 See Commissioners to Canada to John Hancock, May 10, 1776, which reached Congress this day; and JCC, 4:362. Adams’ colleague Robert Treat Paine made the following entry in his diary this day: “Rainy. By Express heard a Reinforcement had arrived at Quebec of 2 Men of Warr & 2 Frigates, & that our Army had retired. Dined at Mr Hancocks.” MHi. ’That is, as a justice of the Massachusetts Superior Court of Judicature. Josiah Bartlett to Mary Bartlett My Dear Philadelphia May 18th 1776 Yesterday afternoon I arrived here in good health, after a very fatigueing Journey. The weather has been, this week, uncommonly hot and Coming so suddenly after the Cold weather made it very uncomfortable both to horse & man. I wrote you by Col Gale which no Doubt you have Reed. After I left him I went by Norwich & New London to New Haven; went to meeting Sunday afternoon at Brandford, and rode after meeting to New Haven; on Monday rode from New Haven to Horseneck Tuesday morning. I understood the Eastern post was to Call there that morning & Breakfast, which I thought was a good opportunity to write to you, but while I was in another room writing & sealing a Letter he Came, left his papers and was gone. So I was Disappointed of Sending it at last. When I got to New York on Tuesday I found that General Sullivan and all the New Hampshire Regiments were Marched off for Canada, the two last Regiments had been gone about a fortnight. The account of the Roebuck & Liverpool men of war Coming up Deleware within 30 miles of this City & the Engagement of the Philadelphia Gondalos with them you will no Doubt See in the news papers. 1 The Gondalos had much the advantage of the men of war & obliged them to Sheer off; when the men of war were Coming up the people here were much frighted & many of them Sent out their goods into the Country.
