34 May 18, 1776 The Congress have Sent out a General Recommendation to all the Colonies to take up a new form of Government. You Desired me to write you how much forwarder the Spring was this way than with us; the people all the way as I Came Com plain of the Backwardness of the Spring till this week. At the South part of Connecticut last Monday the apple trees were in full Blossom, peach trees & Cherry trees out of the Blossom: from New York to this City the trees all out of the Blossom & Cherries of Some Bigness, the winter Rye Eared out to its full heighth. However the people all the way were planting Indian Corn. I want to hear from you & in particular from Lieut Pearson. Hope one or more of your letters are on the road here. I shall now Constantly write to you Every week and at present Direct them to be left at Newbury Port. Tell Mrs Burbank that the Regiment her son is in was Encamped at Some Distance from New York so that I could not See him, but I Saw a Captain that Belonged to the Same Encampment and I Gave him the letter & he promised me to find him out & give him the letter. The Company where Mr. Flagg’s Son is was Stationed at Stratton [Staten] Island four or five miles from New York but I took the best Care to Convey it to him. I am, yours &c, Josiah Bartlett RC (NhHi). ’See Marine Committee to John Barry, May 8, 1776. James Duane to John Jay Philad 18 May 1776 I wrote you, my dear Sir, a hasty Scrawl by the post on a most im portant Subject. 1 You know the Maryland Instructions and those of Pennsylvania. I am greatly in doubt whether either of their Assemblies or Conventions will listen to a Recommendation the preamble of which so openly avows Independance & Seperation. The lower Counties will probably adhere to Pensylvania. New Jersey you can form a good Judgment of from the Reception this important Resolution has met with. The orators of Virginia with Col. Henry at their Head are against a Change of Government. The Body of the People, Col. Nelson, on whose Authority you Hint, thinks are for it. The late Election of Deputies for the Convention of New York sufficiently proves that those who assumed clandestine power & gave Laws even to the Convention & Committees were unsupported by the people. There seems therefore no Reason that our Colony shou’d be too precipitate in changing the present mode of Government. I woud wish first to be well assured of the Opinion of the Inhabitants at large. Let them be rather followed than driven on an Occasion of such momentuous Concern. But, above all, let us see the Conduct
