May 20, 1776 49 of Independency 8c new Establishments, and will break the Union or rather not enter into one for these Ends, either of which are dangerous Extremes. But in whatever is determined it will be wise and prudent to have the Concurrence of the People. I wish much to be with you & to remain with you to share in all your perplexities, Difficulties 8c Dangers be they what they may. But I am denied the only Comfort I could have in the present Situation of affairs by the particular Circumstances of my family. I am distressed beyond the Bearing of a Man who has much more Philosophy than ever I was blessed with, by contemplating probable Events in this Coun try. And this mortifying Speculation is not the greatest uneasiness I suffer at present. The Illness of a wife I esteem most dearly preys most severely on my Spirits, she is I thank God something better this afternoon, and this Intermission of her Disorder affords me Time to write to you. The Doctr. thinks she is in a fair way of being well in a few days. I wish I thought so. The People of this Province are thrown into the most violent Convulsions by the resolve of Congress sent you, the result of which it is impossible to foresee. 6 A considerable number of People met this morning in Consequence of an hand Bill for that purpose, 8c determined that Government ought to be assumed, the Assembly suppressed, the Instructions to the Delegates rescinded 8c a Convention called for the purpose of judging of the Propriety of forming a new Government, 8c to form the same. This Meeting as I am informed consisted of the people only who are of one side, 8c that all their Determinations were very unanimous. The County Committee I hear met yesterday and determined by a great majority only two dissenting, to support the assembly under the present form of Government. We have not heard from the out counties. The assembly was to have met this day, but I believe there were not members enough to make an House. We shall know in a few days whether they will maintain their Ground. Our affairs in Canada are ruined as you will see by the Papers. I wish we may make a tolerable stand on any Ground the other side the Lake. I hear Chase has wrote to a friend of his in this city, that he could not be of any further service in Canada and was determined to sit out the day after he wrote, to leave the County, should this resolution be taken by our Commissioners there, which however I hope for their Credit & our Safety will not be the Case, the Soldiers will probably follow & will not even hazard a Stay at Saint Johns or the Isle au Noix to raise fortifications, should this be the case 8c the Enemy take the advantage of this consterna tion and regain the Lakes, assemble the Canadians who are very generally irritated against us 8c the Indians who will join the Party to appearance victorious, a most bloody 8c distructive war upon the Frontiers of N York 8c N England will ensue, and how far it’s Con sequences may extend, cannot be foretold. On the contrary should
