May 22, 1776 61 Alass poor Imagination! how faintly and imperfectly do you supply the Want of original and Reality! But instead of these pleasing Scaenes of domestic Life, I hope you will not be disturbed with the Alarms of War. I hope yet I fear. RC (MHi). Adams. Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 1:412-13. 1 John Adams was appointed on May 23 to a committee to confer with Generals Washington, Gates, and Mifflin "upon the most speedy and effectual means for supporting the American cause in Canada.” Its report was submitted and acted upon on May 24, and on the following day Adams was named to the committee to confer with Generals Washington, Gates, and Mifflin to “concert a plan of mili tary operations for the ensuing campaign.” See JCC, 4:383-84, 387-89, 391. See also Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:390-91. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney Sir, Philadelphia May 22d 1776 I,find by your letter of the 19th Instant, 1 my Last letters to you, with which I inclosed you the Resolution of Congress to which is a Long preamble leading you to the design of the Resolution, had not then Come to hand. I sent them by Mr. William Gray who I believe did not leave this town Till Sunday Morning last. You don’t say whether you had seen Collo. Haslet’s letter to which I had Refered you. 2 By the next post Shall be glad to hear your opinion on the mode best to be adopted for Effecting the Change. 3 The people in this City I think have Acted rather unwisely. They have Called a Town Meeting—by which they have determined to apply to the Committees of Inspection of the Several Counties throughout the province, to depute a Certain number of each of those Committees to meet together at Philadelphia, And there agree on, and order What number of Members Shall be Elected by the people in Each County within the province, to meet in Convention at Philadelphia, The Whole number for the Province to be One hundred. 4 This Con vention is to be Chose for the Special purpose of Laying the plan of Government—and when that is Done, and an Assembly Chose and Returned agreable to Such plan the Convention is to be disolved. This mode for Establishing a Government appears to be, and really is verry fair. Yet I think they are unwise, Because we are Certain that a verry powerfull force is Expected from England against us, some are Come, the rest will undoubtedly Arrive before Midsummer. We shall be Oblidged to Exert every Nerve, at every point, and we well know how necessary Regular Government is to this End—and by their Mode it will be impossible for them to have any Government for three months to Come, and during that time much Confusion. If the present Assembly Should take Order in the Matter, the work
