62 May 22, 1776 would be done in one Quarter of the time. However many of the Citizens seem to have little or no Confidence in the Assembly. With us below I hardly know what Step will be best. In our County a New Choice Could not mend the Ticket, but might make it worse. In the Other Counties there is verry little probability of an Alteration for the better. I want to have the opinion of your Set Concerning it, by next Post. You say you sent by Mr. Parke fifty pounds to be paid to some person in Town and that Parke let you know he had left the Money with me. That you now mention it because I had not wrote to you about it. I Assure you it is the first time I ever heard of the fifty pounds. Parke never paid, or even ever talked of paying that, or any other Sum of money to me, nor did he ever tell me of your giving him any money for me on any one Else. As my Wheat is like to lie in the Granary for want of Such a price as I Can afforde to take, It will be necessary to have it fre quently Turned to prevent the Weavell getting in it. Therefore hope you will not Neglect to see it done. One of our Riflemen that travelled across the Country with Arnold, and taken prisoner while on Gentry at Quebec, Was Sent to England. A few days after he landed, he was sent to London and put in Bride well in Irons. Sawbridge (the Lord Mayor) went to him, Examined him and had him immediately discharged Sc sent down to Bristol, Where a number [o/] Gentn. procured him a passage to Hallifax. He left Bristol the 24th of March, Arrived in this City the day before Yesterday, And tho Searched at Hallifax two or three times, brought undiscovered a Number of Letters and Newspapers to the Congress, by which we are possessed of all their plans for the destruction of America. 6 No Commissioners. Captn. Craige who was appointed to make the Exchange of prisoners with the Roebuck, has returned to Chester with Captn. Budden, Lt. Ball and all the rest of them. They Say (for I have seen Budden 8c Craige) that the men of War are gone off to Sea, that they Stood after them 12 Leagues without the Capes, then lost sight of them and Returned. I am Yrs. Caesar Rodney RC (PHi). 1 Thomas Rodney to Caesar Rodney, May 19, 1776, which contained information on a conversation that he had recently had with John Dickinson in Dover. “I mentioned to him the Resolution of Congress [of May 10 and the preamble of May 15]; and he answer’d it was made before he Left there; upon which I ob served to him many advantages that would follow our assuming Government to which he agreed & observed many others ‘And that it would not prevent but per haps promote a more speedy reconciliation, because the longer they let Govern ment exist before they offer Terms the more firm that Government would be, & therefore the more difficult to effect a reconciliation.’ I should apprehend from the above sentiments that Mr. D has some glimmering hopes of reconciliation yet, or that he ment thereby, to flater those who have such hopes, to acquiese in the
