66 May 24, 1776 John Hancock to the Commissioners to Canada Gentlemen, Philada. May 24th. 1776. By the enclosed Resolves of Congress which I do myself the Honour of transmitting, you will perceive that every Step has been taken to procure hard Money that could be devised. 1 I have forwarded to Genl. Schuyler by this Conveyance the Sum of sixteen Hundred & sixty two Pounds one Shilling &: three Pence in hard Money, which was all that was in the Treasury. Genl Washington arrived here yesterday Afternoon in good Health, the Congress having requested his Attendance in order to consult him on the Operation of the approaching Campaign, and such other Matters as should be necessary. I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obedt. and very hble Sert. J. H. Prst. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 These resolutions were passed by Congress on May 22, partly in response to the commissioners’ letters to Hancock of May 1, 6, and 8. See JCC, 4:358, 362, 375-78. John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Sir, Philada. May 24th. 1776 In Obedience to a Resolve of Congress 1 I herewith transmit the Sum of Sixteen Hundred and sixty two Pounds, one Shilling & three pence in three Bags, which I have committed to the Charge of Captn. Graydon of the Pennsylvania Forces in the Continental Service. This is all the hard Money that was in the Treasury. Enclosed you have the Resolves of Congress with regard to our Affairs in Canada. 2 At present I am so extremely hurried, that I have only Time to add that, the Money voted by Congress to be sent to you shall be forwarded in a few Days. Genl. Washington arrived here yesterday in good Health, the Congress having requested his Attendance to consult him on the operations of the approaching Campaign. I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Servt. J. H. Prst. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 Passed on May 18. ]CC, 4:366. 2 These resolves, passed by Congress on May 22, were mainly directions to Schuyler and the Canadian commissioners for arresting the collapse of the Ameri can position in Canada, prompted by the reception of alarming intelligence from there on May 16 and 18. On the 16th Congress appointed John Adams, Thomas
