68 May 24, 1776 LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 These resolves, the most important of which declared that “the commanding officer in Canada, be informed, that the Congress are fully convinced of the ab solute necessity of keeping possession of that country,” were based upon the report of a committee appointed by Congress on May 23 to confer with Generals Washington, Gates, and Mifflin “upon the most speedy and effectual means for supporting the American cause in Canada.” JCC, 4:383-84, 388. John Hancock to John Thomas Sir, Philada. May 24th 1776. You will perceive by the enclosed Resolutions of Congress which I do myself the Honour of transmitting, and to which I beg Leave to refer your attention that Canada, in their opinion is an object of the last Importance to the Welfare of the United Colonies. 1 Should our Troops retire before the Enemy and entirely evacuate that Province, it is not in Human Wisdom to foretel the Conse quences. In this Case, the Loss of Canada will not be all. The whole Frontiers of the New England & New York Governments will be exposed not only to the Ravages of the Indians, but also of the British Forces, not less savage & barbarous in the Prosecution of the present War. In this View of the Matter it is needless to employ Arguments to excite you to the greatest Vigour & Dilligence on this Occasion. The Congress having tried every Method to collect hard Money for the Army in Canada, without Success, are determined not to relinquish the Expedition or give it up. They have therefore resolved to supply our Troops there with Provisions & Cloathing from the other Colonies if they cannot be had in that Country; of which Resolution, I sent this Morning an Account to Genl. Schuyler ac companied with several other Resolutions, with regard to the Situa tion of Affairs in that Quarter. Upon the whole, it seems from the latest Intelligence that Nothing but the greatest Exertions of Capacity and Vigour will ever retrieve our Misfortunes in Canada. The Eyes of the Continent are upon you. Display therefore, I entreat you for your own Honour, and the Good of your Country, those military Qualities, which you certainly possess. There are still Laurels to be acquired in Canada, which I have the most pleasing Hopes are reserved for you, as the Command of the Expedition is now given to you. I have Nothing further to add, but that I am commanded by Congress to direct you will carry the enclosed Resolves into Execu tion as speedily as possible. I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Serv. J. H. Prst. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 See JCC, 4:388.
