May 25, 1776 69 Commissioners to Canada to David Wooster Sir, Montreal 25th May 1776 The inclosed 1 We desire You to forward by the Express to Saint Johns, which We presume You will send off in Consequence of our Letter of this Date. 2 Unless immediate Steps are taken to procure provisions for the Army, the Soldiers must starve or plunder the Inhabitants. It is a Duty incumbent on our Generals to prevent such a dreadful Scene by every Means in their power. We are, Sir, Your Most Obedt. Servants, Sami. Chase Ch. Carroll of Carrollton RC (PHi). Written by Chase and signed by Chase and Carroll. 1 Not found. Apparently a letter to James Price and William McCarty pertaining to the procurement of flour. See Commissioners to Canada to John Thomas, May 26, 1776. 2 The commissioners wrote another brief letter to Wooster this day. “We think it would be proper for you to issue an order to the town Major to wait on the Merchants or others having provisions or merchandize for Sale and request a delivery of what our troops are in immediate want of, offering to give a receipt expressing the quantity delivered and engaging the faith of the United Colonies for payment, and on refusal we think our necessity requires that force should be used to compel a delivery.” Burr MSS, MWA. James Duane to John Jay Philad 25 May 1776 I conclude, my dear Sir, that the late Resolution of Congress recommending the Assumption of Government will induce you to give your Attendance for a few days at our own Convention. 1 If this shoud be the Case it will [5e] of advantage to you to be informed of the Temper and proceedings of the neighbouring Colonies on this great Revolution. You recollect the Maryland Instruction which, upon any Measure of Congress to this Effect, requird the Delegates of that Colony to repair to their provincial Convention. These Gent, accordingly declard that they shoud consider their Colony as unrepresented untill they receivd the directions of their principals who were then sitting at Annapolis. Yesterday the Sense of that Convention was made publick; they approve of the Conduct of their Delegates in Dissenting from the preamble & the Resolution—they repeat & enforce their former Instructions—declare that they have not lost
