70 May 25, 1776 sight of a Reconciliation with Great Britain; & that they will adhere to the Common Cause & support it on the principles of the Union as explaind at the time of entering on the War. So much for Mary land. 2 The General Assembly of Pensylvania is averse to any Change. The people of this Town assembled last Monday in the State house yard & agreed to a set of Resolutions in favour of a Change. Another body are signing a Remonstrance against the Acts of that Meeting and in Support of the Assembly. The Committee for the County of Philadelphia have unanimously Supported the Assembly & protested against any Change. It is supposed the other Counties will follow the Example & take a part in the dispute. Is it not to be feared that this spirit of Dissention will spread itself into the adjoining Colonies? But I intend to make no Reflections. The facts I have hinted at will be published—what relates to this City & the County of Phila. already are—and the Maryland Delegates have express directions to submit their Acts to the publick View. It may be Some days before they come to your Knowledge thro’ the Channel of the Press. I coud say a great deal to you on this interesting Sub ject; but you are master of my sentiments which are not altered since you left me here. I expect Mr Alsop this Evening & shall in that Case set out on Monday to visit my Family. 3 It is more than 9 months since I have seen my Children; 8c I have spent but about ten days in that time with Mrs. Duane. I am my dear Sir, with the greatest Regard, Your affectionate 8c most Obed Servt, Jas Duane RC (NNC). 1 In his reply to Duane written from New York on May 29, 1776, Jay observed: “So great are the Inconveniences resulting from the present Mode of Government, that I believe our Convention will almost unanimously agree to institute a better, to continue till a Peace with Great Britain shall render it unnecessary.” Jay, Papers (Morris), pp. 269-70. Jay’s draft of this reply, located in the Jay Papers, NNC, contains the following paragraph about John Alsop and Francis Lewis, which is crossed out in the draft and does not appear at all in the RC: "Messrs. Alsop and Lewis start for Congress on Saturday next. The former of them has committed a piece of Imprudence or mercantile Finesse which I suspect will destroy the Confidence the People fixed on him. They say he asked six Shillings per pound for his Tea by the Quantity, on which the Retailor, not being able to make any Proffit if sold agreable to the Resolve of Congress, ob jected to taking it. To remove this objection, it is said, Mr. Alsop advised him to put it up in paper Parcels and by an extra Charge for Paper, obtain a reason able Proffit. This Affair has made much Noise, and I believe will make more.” 2 See Carter Braxton to Landon Carter, May 17; and Thomas Stone to James Hollyday?, May 20, 1776. “Duane left Congress on May 31, 1776, and did not return until April of the following year. Edward P. Alexander, A Revolutionary Conservative: James Duane of New York (New York: Columbia University Press, 1938), pp. 119, 124.
