May 25, 1776 you was well. 1 hope to have the Pleasure of seeing my Family this Summer. Mr. Huntington is now gone Home. He will Return in about a Forthnight. Mrs. Sherman is here and Mr. Sherman intends to go home with her as soon as Mr. Huntington comes back. 1 I do with less regret Submit to live here till the heat of Summer, as it will be then uncomfortable And tho it will [5e] tedious travelling yet I had rather submit to that than live here in that Season. In about Two Months I may probably Return but which I may Vary upon Circumstances. Mr. Baldwin the Tutor is in Town who tells Me he will take Care and provide a good Place for Oliver. Perhaps he will take him into his own Rooms, however he says he will see that he Shall be well provided for. Mr. Pierpoints is a Very good Place but its Seems Oliver must remove from thence. Capt Mix is a Virtuous Family. His Son Oliver’s Classmate it seems is but an Ordinary Lad. If he is to live with him I shall be averse to it and as he is his Classmate Should preferr that he would not live in the same House. The Lad is not that I know of Vicious but indolent and triffling and has a Town Acquaintance which it is not any advantage to a Child to be led into. But this must be left to yr Prudence. Mr. Baldwin I believe will Very cheerfully Assist him in any Things and he mentioned as tho he perhaps might live with Mr. Buksminster. I care not whether he lives in the Colledge or not, but let him have good company and such advantages as may be Necessary. It seems he maintains a good Character, and I hope he will keep it. If the Matter is not So fixd, with Regard to his living with Capt Mix, Oliver need but Wait upon Mr. Baldwin and he will tell him of his Lodgings—such as I do not doupt will be Very proper for him. I wrote to you the 16t, lit, and 4t instant. I shall Write to you once in a Week or ten Days while I am here. For News referr you to the Papers. G. Britain mean or rather the King of it to exert his utmost force agt. this Country and has infamously hired Merce naries to Subdue us but I trust in God he will be defeated. I have No Apprehension that more than 30,000 at most including those already here will be employed in the Land Service. By the blessing of God I am Well. My Love to my Children and Friends. I am with the greatest Affection, yrs, Oliver Wolcott RC (CtHi). 1 Samuel Huntington returned to Philadelphia soon after June 25 and Wolcott apparently left for home about June 28. See Wolcott to Laura Wolcott, June 25, 1776. John Adams to James Sullivan Dear Sir. 1 Philadelphia May 26. 1776 Your Favours of May 9th and 17th are now before me; 2 and I
