80 May 27, 1776 Yet I will not shrink from this Danger or this Toil. While my Health shall be such that I can discharge in any tolerable manner, the Duties of this important Post, I will not desert it. Am pleased to hear that the superiour Court is to sit, at Ipswich in June. This will contribute to give Stability to the Government, I hope, in all its Branches . . . . 2 But I presume other Steps will be taken for this Purpose. A Governor and Lt. Governor, I hope will be chosen, and the Constitution a little more fixed. I hope too that the Councill will this year be more full and augmented by the Ad dition of good Men. I hope Mr. Bowdoin will be Governor, if his Health will permit, and Dr. Winthrop Lt. Governor. These are wise, learned, and prudent Men. The first has a great Fortune, and wealthy Connec tions, the other has the Advantage of a Name and Family which is much reverenced, besides his Personal Abilities and Virtues, which are very great. Our Friend, 3 I sincerely hope, will not refuse his Appointment, for although I have ever thought that Bench should be fill’d from the Bar, and once laboured successfully to effect it, yet as the Gentle men have seen fit to decline, I know of no Gentleman, who would do more Honour to the Station than my Friend. None would be so agreable to me, whether I am to sit by him, or before him. I suppose it must be disagreable to him and his Lady, because he loves to be upon his Farm, and they both love to be together. But you must tell them of a Couple of their Friends who are as fond of living together, who are obliged to sacrifice their rural Amuse ments and domestic Happiness to the Requisitions of the public. The Generals Washington, Gates, and Mifflin are all here, and We shall derive Spirit, Unanimity, and Vigour from their Presence and Advice. I hope you will have some General Officers at Boston soon. I am, with constant Wishes and Prayers for your Health, and Prosperity, forever yours. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 1:419-21. 1 Abigail had correctly surmised that John had written the recently published pamphlet Thoughts on Government. See ibid., p. 404. “Suspension points in MS. ’James Warren. Commissioners to Canada to John Hancock Sir Montreal May 27. 1776. We refer you to the inclosed letter from Genl. Thomas of the 20th instant for the reasons which induced him to order Colo. Maxwell to retreat from 3 Rivers to Sorel. 1 He has since given orders, as we are informed by Genl. Thompson’s letter of the 20th
