May 27, 1776 81 to remove all the Artillery & Artillery Stores from the mouth of Sorel without the least consultation with the Genl. Officers. We have reason to beleive that there is not that good understanding & free communication of sentiments between the General Officers, which we think essential for the good of the service. General Thomas is now at Chambly under the Small pox; being taken with that dis order, he left the Camp at Sorel, & wrote to General Wooster to come and take the Command. When the interest of our Country, and the safety of your Army is at Stake we think it a very improper time to conceal our sentiments either with respect to persons or things. General Wooster is in our opinion unfit, totally unfit, to Command your Army & conduct the war; we have hitherto pre vailed on him to remain in Montreal, his stay in this Colony is un necessary &: even prejudicial to our Affairs, we would therefore humbly advise his recall. In our last we informed you of the deplorable state of the Army. Matters have not mended since we went to the Mouth of Sorel last week, where we found all things in confusion, there is little or no discipline among your Troops nor can any be kept up, while the practice of Enlisting for a twelve Month continues. The General Officers are all of this Opinion. Your Army is badly paid and so exhausted is your Credit, that even a Cart cannot be procured without ready Money or force. We will give you an instance of the lowness of your Credit. 3 barrels of gunpowder were ordered from Chambly to Montreal. This powder was brought from Chambly to a ferry about 3 Miles off, where it would have remained, had we not luckily passed by, and seeing the distress of the Officer, under taken to pay ready and hard money for the hire of a cart to convey it to Longueul. The Army is in a distressed condition, and in want of the most Necessary articles. Meat, Bread, tents, Shoes, Stockings, Shirts &c. The greatest part of those who fled from Quebec left all their baggage behind them, or it was plundered by those whose times were out, & have since left Canada. We are informed by Colo. Allen that the Men, who from pretended indisposition had been excused from doing duty, were the foremost in the flight, and carried off such burthens on their backs as hearty & stout Men would labour under. With difficulty 3 hundred tents and about 2 hundred Camp kettles were procured here, & sent to the Sorel for the use of the Army, and were delivered, as we are informed, to one Major Fuller, who acted in the room of Mr Campbell D.Q.M.G., who had joined the Army at the Sorel, but a day or two before our arrival there. Among other instances of mismanagement we give the following, Colo. Nicholson’s regiment consisting only of one Hundred Men received 30 tents and 31 camp kettles, Colo. Porters Regt, not ex ceeding that number rec’d 56 Tents &: 33 kettles. Your Army in Canada does not exceed 4000. Above 400 are sick
