82 May 27, 1776 with different disorders. 3/4ths of the Army have not had the small Pox. The greater part of Greatons, Bonds, & Burrels Regts, have been lately innoculated. There are about Eight Tons of Gunpowder in the Colony. To evince the great distress we are reduced to for want of bread, we must inform you, that we were obliged to buy 30 Loaves of bread of our baker, to feed Colo. De Haas detachment, which entered this town Friday Night on their way to join General Arnold at La Chine and who could not be supplied by the Com missary; Such is our extreme want of flour, that we were yesterday obliged to seize by force 15 bbs to supply this garrison with bread; previous to this seizure a general order was issued to the town Major to wait on the Merchants or others having provisions or Merchandize for Sale, requesting a delivery of what our Troops are in immediate want of &: requiring him to give a receipt expressing the quantity delivered, for the payment of which, the faith of the United Colonies is pledged by your Commissioners. Nothing but the most urgent necessity can justify such harsh measures, but men with arms in their hands will not starve, where provisions can be obtained by force: to prevent a general plunder which might end in the Massacre of your Troops & of many of the Inhabitants we have been con strained to advise the General to take this Step. We cannot conceal our concern that Six Thousand Men should be ordered to Canada without taking care to have Magazines formed for their Subsistance, cash to pay them, or to pay the Inhabitants for their Labour, in transporting the baggage, Stores, and provisions of the Army. We cannot find words strong enough to describe our Miserable Situation, you will have a faint Idea of it if you figure to yourself an Army broken and disheartned, half of it under innoculation or under other diseases, Soldiers without pay, without discipline and altogether reduced to live from hand to mouth, depending on the scanty & precarious Supplies of a few half Starved cattle & triffling quantities of flour which have hitherto been picked up in different parts of the Country. Your Soldiers grumble for their pay; if they receive it, they will not be benefitted as it will not procure them the necessaries they stand in need of. Your Military chest contains but eleven thousand paper Dollars. You are indebted to your Troops treble that sum and to the Inhabitants above 15000 dollars. You have no adjutant General, a most important Officer, General Thomas appointed a Man totally unfit for the Office, as we are informed by General Thompson & Colo. Sinclair. On General Arnolds recommendation Colo. Antil now does that duty & We gave him Expectation of being paid. We are by no means proper judges of his abilities & fitness for that Station but we are informed, that it requires a Gentleman of great activity and abilities. You have no muster master, We have Authority only to fill up such Vacancys as may happen during our
