May 27, 1776 83 Continuance in Canada. We met Mr. Flemming appointed by Con gress Deputy Adjutant for this Colony, in [New York?], and Captn. Rensselaer the Deputy Muster Master passed Us on the Lake. In some few Instances it may be necessary to make new appointments. E.G. more Deputy Commissaries and Deputy, or Assistant Quarter Masters. Your Generals here have hitherto exercised that power. The Detachment of 150 Men mentioned in our last to have been sent to the relief of the Cedars under the Command of Major Sher burne were intercepted; we were some time before we could learn the fate of both parties. General Arnold upon his arrival from Sorel set off with a party of 100 Men & took post and Entrenched at La Chine about 9 Miles from this City; Captn Young with a Small Detachment posted at Fort St. Ann on the end of this Island evacuted his post and retreated back leaving the provisions & Stores, on a report that some Indians were landed on the Island. His post might have been defended some days until relief could be sent. General Arnold was soon reinforced by part of Greatons Regt. & some other Troops. Colo. De Haas with 110 Riffle Men & 300 Mus- queteers was despatched immediately from Sorel. By the best In telligence we can get, the enemy are about Six hundred, abt 40 or 50 Regulars, 300 Inds. & 250 Canadians. They have the two pieces of Cannon taken from Colo. Bedels party and were Yesterday within three Miles of General Arnolds Camp, but finding he had been reinforced made a precipitate retreat. Colo. De Haas set off at Six oClock yesterday Morning to endeavour to cut off their retreat, & General Arnold was to follow in a few Minutes in persuit of them. We hope hourly to hear that our prisoners are liberated, & the Enemy routed. The Canadians being threatened to have their habi tations destroyed by the Savages, thro’ fear are induced to join the Savages. We have also a party of Canadians. We enclose You Copies of Letters from Genls Thomas, Arnold & Thompson 2 and are, Sir, with great Respect to yourself & the Congress, Yr. Most Obedt. Servants, Samuel Chase Ch. Carroll of Carrollton May 28. 1776 Tuesday General Arnold arrived on Sunday Evening with the Troops, at St. Anns just in time to see the Savages carrying off from an Island the last boat Load of our unhappy prisoners. 3 He had no Boats to follow them. He sent a Caghnawaga Chief to the Savages to inform them if they injured any of our Prisoners that he would destroy their Villages & follow them to the end of the Earth. They replied if he attempted to cross over or attack them that they would im mediately kill all their prisoners & for that purpose had collected them together. A Council of war notwithstanding determined to attack them, & the Kings Troops in the morning. Lieut. Park was
