84 May 27, 1776 sent by Captn. Forster to inform Genl. Arnold that the Savages were determined to kill their prisoners if attacked, that he could not control them 8c therefore from the Dictates of Humanity, he would propose to release all our prisoners, on Condition that they should not bear Arms agt. the King during the War, 8c that an equal number of his Majesties Troops of the same Rank should be returned in Exchange. This proposal was rejected by Genl. Arnold. The inclosed is a Copy of the agreement entered into. This hypro- critical, insidious, base 8c wicked Conduct of a British Officer needs few Comments. The Governors, Agents 8c Officers of a British King incite the Savages to join them in a war against these Colonies without the least provocation or Injury. No cause of Quarrel Sub sists between the Savages 8c the Colonies. If by the Chance of War any of our Troops are made prisoners they are delivered by the King’s Officers into the Murderous hands of those Cruel 8c barbarous savages; contrary to the practice 8c usage of every civilized Nation in the World; the British Troops secure their safety by Threats from the Savages to murder the Prisoners if attacked. Captn. Forster alledged he had it not in his power to controul the Savages from an act, which he declares to be opposite, 8c contrary to the humane Disposition of the British Govt. 8c to all civilized Nations. If the Commander of British forces cannot controul the Savages from Committing acts of Cruelty 8c Barbarity, why do they incite them to Arm agt. Us or act in Conjunction with Barbarians whose Savage Customs they condemned? This same Conduct in the French during the last War, was censured and execrated by the British Nation. Captn. Forster had sufficient Influence over the Savages to induce them to deliver up their prisoners (tho’ our Troops surrendered to him) in order to procure an Exchange of so many of the Kings Troops now our prisoners, he could controul their will for the Advantage of the British Nation, but had not the least Influence over them to prevent the Murdering our people in Cold Blood. The fear of the Indians of being attacked by our forces was only a pretext, for Captn. Forster appears desirous of Commencing Hos tilities before the Expiration of the time limited. Five or Six of our prisoners were murdered by the Indians, in the most cruel manner after the Surrender, The whole were Stripped, contrary to the Terms of Capitulation, and drove in a Neck of Land: during a very stormy 8c tempestuous Night. Colo. Reads 8c [Starks?] Regts, arrived at St Johns Saturday Evening. The Letter from Genl. Thomas to Genl. Wooster of which the enclosed is Copy, this Minute came to hand. RC (DNA: PCC, item 166). In a clerical hand and signed by Carroll and Chase. Received and read in Congress on June 6, 1776. JCC, 5:420. ’See Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:592. 2 See ibid., pp. 588-97; and JCC, 5:420.
