May 27, 1776 85 ’For an account of this entire affair, see Justin H. Smith, Our Struggle for the Fourteenth Colony: Canada and the American Revolution, 2 vols. (New York: G.P. Putnam’s Sons, 1907), 2:367-80. See also Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:595-600. Benjamin Franklin to the Commissioners to Canada Dear Friends, N York May 27. 1776 We arrived here safe yesterday Evening, having left Mrs Walker with her Husband at Albany, from whence we came down by Land. We pass’d him on Lake Champlain; but he returning overtook us at Saratoga, where they both gave themselves such Liberties in taunting at our Conduct in Canada, that it came almost to a Quarrel. We continu’d our Care of her, however, and landed her safe in Albany, with her three Waggon Loads of Baggage, brought thither without putting her to any Expence, and parted civilly tho coldly. I think they both have excellent Talents at making them selves Enemies, and I believe, live where they will, they will never be long without them. We met yesterday two Officers from Philadelphia with a Letter from the Congress to the Commissioners, & a Sum of hard Money. 1 I opened the Letter &: seal’d it again, directing them to carry it forward to you. I congratulate you on the great Prize carry’d into Boston. Seventy-five Tons of Gunpowder is an excellent Supply; and the 1000 Carbines with Bayonets, another fine Article. The German Auxiliaries are certainly coming. It is our Business to pre vent their Returning. The Congress have advis’d the erecting new Governments, which has ocasion’d some Dissension at Philada.; but I hope it will soon be compos’d. I shall be glad to hear of your Welfare. As to my self, I find I grow daily more feeble, and think I could hardly have got along so far, but for Mr Carroll’s friendly Assistance & tender Care of me. Some Symptoms of the Gout now appear, which makes me think my Indisposition has been a smother’d Fit of that Disorder, which my Constitution wanted Strength to form completely. I have had several Fits of it formerly. God bless you & prosper your Councils; and bring you safe again to your Friends & Families. With the greatest Esteem & Respect, I am, Your most obedt humble Servant, 2 B Franklin RC (NN). ’See John Hancock to the Commissioners to Canada, May 24, 1776. ’Franklin also wrote to General Schuyler this date relating an account of his journey and thanking the general and his wife for their assistance during his trip southward. Miscellaneous MSS, N.
