May 28, 1776 93 As to your questions about the bath waters I hardly know how to answer them since I have been so much confined here as to have given them but little chance—however Philadelphia agrees very well with me which is much the same thing. I suppose you know that our little family is settled about two miles from Bristol. I visit it on Saturday & leave it on Monday. I am very happy that Peggy & Polly have an agreeable neighbourhood who are attentive to them in my absence. You do wrong to tell me of the beauties of the Manor at a time when the remembrance of them only makes me regret my absence. As I am a farmer you should have said some thing of my domain— but I am unreasonable. I should rather thank you for what you have said than blame what you have not said. I am glad Janet is gone to Albany since it may tend to her amusement, but sorry that Angelica has left you, since it increases your solitude. By the pathetic appella tion of poor Ann I fear she has not recovered her health, for which I should be extreamly sorrey since the goodness of her heart entitles her to every blessing. If Gittys laziness is not invincible I may hope to hear from her: however I have little faith in modern miraclles. As for John I shall pass him by in silence—but of Dolly I have some hopes. I know Hannah means well, & I am affraid that from her according to the adage I must acceppt the will for the deed. Give my love to mama, she is three letters in my debt. May heaven bless you all & grant us a happy meeting. N. B. I would have my wheat ground immediately and let my people eat the cornel for which there will be no vent. From your Aff. Brother, Robt. R Livingston RC (CtW). 1 Livingston's sister, Catharine (1752-1849). New Hampshire Delegates to Meshech Weare Sir, Philadelphia 28th May 1776 We have obtain’d an order for 10500 Dols, for defraying the expences of raising & advancing a months pay to the Regiment to be station’d at Portsmouth which we only wait for an opportunity to send forward. 1 Flour & salt Provisions may be supplied from Boston where a much larger Quantity was left by the Commisary Genl, than will be wanted by the troops station’d there. We are extreamly sorry that the Colony we have the Honour to Represent which has had so high a place in the esteem of the whole Continent, for its for wardness, & great exertions, in the Glorious Contest, in which we are now engag’d, shod, be lessen’d by the delay of the Regiment
