94 May 28, 1776 order’d last winter into Canada. Our misfortune in that Country is imputed to tardiness of that & two other N. England Regiments, if that Regiment had March’d at the time we expected, & frequently asserted, the evil might have been averted; we hope (for the Honor of the Colony) there will be a strict inquiry made and the cause of the delay fully investigated, that the Officers (if they are faulty) may be brought to justice. The Convention of Virginia have instructed their delegates to use their endeavors that Congress sho’d declare the United Colonies a Free independent state, North Carolina have signified the same desires. 2 S. Carolina & Georgia will readily Acceed. The Proprietary Govts will be the last to agree to this necessary step, the disafected in them are now exerting themselves but their exertions are no more then the last strugles of expiring factions. We hope in a few months Civil Governments will be establish’d in all the United Colonies on a firm & permanent Basis. We shod be glad to know the sentiment of our Colony on the important subject of a total seperation from Great Britain. Let our own opinions be what they may, we think ourselves in duty bound, to act agreeable to the sentiments of our constituents. 3 We are with great Respect, Your Most Obt Serts, Josiah Bartlett Wm. Whipple RC (DLC). Written by Whipple and signed by Whipple and Bartlett. ’Although the resolution was passed on May 22, two weeks elapsed before the money w r as sent to New Hampshire. See JCC, 4:380; and Josiah Bartlett to Meshech Weare, June 14, 1776. 2 These instructions were read in Congress on May 27. JCC, 4:397. •On June 15, the New Hampshire Assembly instructed its delegates in Congress “to join with the other Colonies in Declaring The Thirteen United Colonies, A Free ir Independent State." N.H. State Papers, 8:149-50. William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 28th May 1776 Your two favors of 11th and 12th current came duly to hand. 1 I rejoice to find your ship the most forward of any except those at Providence, but I very much fear you’ll still wait for guns if they are not to be had at Providence as I mentioned in my last. I have still kept off the appointment of an Agent in hopes of fixing the appointmt to your mind. 2 I have nominated the Captain who is unanimously accepted by the Committee, but the Sanction of Con gress is still wanting which I think there is no doubt of. The atten tion of Congress has been taken up some days in conference with General Washington, as the plan of operations for this campaign.
