May 29, 1776 97 I wish I could be at Home, at this important Period. But you will remember that all the other Colonies have Constitutions to frame— and what is of infinitely great Delicacy, Intricacy, and Importance, the Continent has a Constitution to form. If I could be of some little use at home, I may be of more here at present. You kindly and politely express a Concern for my Health, and if you have any Regard for me it is not without Reason. I have been here four Months, during which Time I have never once been on Horseback, and have found but little Time to walk. Such un- interupted Attention to Cares and Perplexities of various Kinds, is enough to destroy a more robust Body than mine. But I cannot excuse myself from these Duties, and I must march forward untill it comes to my Turn to fall. Indeed if a few Things more were fully accomplished, I should think it my duty to ask Leave of my Con stituents to return home to my Garden. The Moment I can see every Colony in Possession and actual Exercise of all the Powers of Government, and a Confederation well settled for all the Colonies under a Congress with Powers clearly defined and limited; and Sufficient Preparation and Provisions made for Defence against the Force which is coming against Us; that Moment I shall return to my family; from which I have been too long divorced. But whether my Constitution will hold out so long must be left to him that made it, to whose wisdom and goodness I chearfully Submit. N.B. The Petition from the independent Corps, in Boston gave me great Pleasure and is much to their Honour. I did my Endeavour to get the Prayer granted, but it is at last left to the General. 4 LB (MHi). 1 Benjamin Hichborn (1746-1817), a Boston lawyer, was the ill-fated carrier of John Adams’ controversial letters of July 24, 1775, to Abigail Adams and James Warren that were captured and published by the British. After escaping from the British, Hichborn returned to his legal practice and subsequently was one of the organizers of the Boston Independent Corps. His May 20 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 17:36-44. 2 Adams marked this part of the letter in parenthesis “a Mistake not copied.” “The Massachusetts General Court in May 1776 made representation in that body dependent on the number of qualified voters in a town. Under provincial law each town of 120 qualified voters had elected a maximum of two representa tives with the sole exception of Boston, which elected four. Under the new law a town could send two representatives for its first 120 qualified voters and an additional representative for each additional 100 qualified voters. Under the new system Boston elected 12 representatives in the May 29 election. Western and rural towns immediately expressed their fears that this maneuver would lodge control of the government in the populous, eastern, commercial region. For further discussion of the impact of enlarged representation in the Massachu setts House of Representatives, see Stephen Patterson, Political Parties in Revolu tionary Massachusetts (Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 1973), pp. 153-70; and Robert J. Taylor, Western Massachusetts in the Revolution (Providence: Brown University Press, 1954), pp. 35-36, 101, 140n.39.
