May 29, 1776 99 Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney Sir, Philadelphia May the 29th 1776 You tell me you are proceeding on the Recommendation of Con gress by way of Instruction to the members of the House for that county, 1 I fully approve the methods and hope You will proceed in the business Deliberately, Coolly and persuasively, but diligently. I don’t doubt the Assembly will Act prudently. If otherwise, it will then be time Enough for the people to take the Matter up in an other way. The Recommendation of Congress was certainly Meant to go to the Assemblies, Where there were such who had Authority to Set; and the people of this province haveing taken the matter up upon other Grounds have occationed verry great disturbance, Such as I would not wish to see in our Government. The Colonies of North-Carolina and Virginia have both by their Conventions for Independence by a Unanimus Vote, and have Instructed their mem bers to move and Vote for it in Congress reserving to Each Colony the exclusive right to frame government for it’s Self. The Conven tion of North-Carolina has appointed a Committee (of its own Body) to draw up and Report to them a plan of Government. South- Carolina and all the New-England Colonies have declared off some time Since. When these things are known to the people they will no doubt have great weight with them. I have not seen this day’s paper yet, but imagine you’l have the doings of one or more of those Colonies published there. However Whether in the paper or not, You may depend on the whole of the above relation to be matter of fact. Coll. Dickinson’s, Coll. Robertdoe’s, Coll. Cadwallader’s, Coll. Mckean’s and Coll. MatLock’s Battallions, three companies of Artillery & the Light-horse of the Militia; and Coll. Shee’s and Coll. Magaw’s Battalion’s of the Continental Troops Were all Reviewed the day before Yesterday, on the Common, by the Congress, Generals Washington, Gates and Mifflin accompanied by a great number of other officers, most of the Assembly, the Presbiterian Clergey who were here at the Sinod—and 21 Indians of the Six Nations who gave the Congress a War-dance Yesterday. I Shall put on board John Morris Who is to leave town this day, two barrells of Rum, One of West-India, the other Philadelphia, one barrel of Muscavado Sugar, One hundred Weight of Loaf Sugar and twelve pounds of Bohea Tea. I Shall Send you a Bill of the Articles, hope they will Get safe down and that you will have Care taken of them. They are most abominable high. But having an Eye to havest as well as present Use, Could not do without them. Mr. Ball the Lieutt. is now fixed at Germantown. Since the return of the Liverpool into our Capes there has been another Attempt of the Committee of Safety here, to have Ball Exchanged for Captn. Budden, but Totally rejected by Congress. 2 Misses. Minchel just
