100 May 29, 1776 now told me that Mr. Mark McCall’s mother in Law is dying and that she was with her last night. I have Made further Enquiry about your fifty pounds Sent by Parke, and Mr. Redwood Lets me know that he has not Reed or heard of it. That he has not reed a Letter from you any time within four Months past. Therefore it will be Expedient that You secure yourself in the best, and Quickest way you Can. I think his long Stay in Virginia is Something Suspecious. With Respect to the twenty pounds you Reed of Rymear Williams, keep it till I Come home—perhaps I may be able to get down from our Assembly which Sets next Munday Week. Would doctr. Tilton Think himself obliged, by an Appointment (in his Way) of forty dollars per month, in Virginia, or toward Canada? These things have frequently happened of late, and wou’d probably be in the power of a friend to Serve him. Mr. Jourdan informs me, that McLean has lost the Letter I sent by him to Coll. Haslet. 3 I don’t Recollect any thing verry Material in it—But that Evans the Contractor, had an application made to Congress to have the Troops Quartered at Some two places in the Government that he might the more Conveniently provide for them, otherwise he must decline the Contract—Which Congress absolutely Refused, for that it would be interfering with the business of the Coll., that they never will interfer with his duty but when it shall Evidently appear to them for the greater security and protection of the Government. I took the Liberty to tell Coll. Haslet that I did not doubt he would Study Mr. Evans Convenience (Especially as his providing for them wou’d be a Saving to the public) whenever he should think the safety of the Government wou’d not be En dangered by it. I also mentioned to him (as my opinion) That if he Should Send all the Troops out of Kent, the Committee of Safety there, would Call upon him for the Arms lent, and put them into the hands of the Militia for the imediate protection of that County. I am Asstonished that McLean Should have Lost the Letter—but if it Should Contain any Matter of politic’s (which I do not recollect it did) Shall be verry Angry, and Even Suspect some unfair play. As I have now got to the End of my paper, Must Conclude, Yours &c, Caesar Rodney RC (PHi). 1 See Thomas Rodney to Caesar Rodney, May 26, 1776, in Rodney, Letters (Ryden), p. 84. 2 On this day Congress offered to exchange William Budden for John Draper. JCC, 4:398-99. See also JCC, 4:340, 345, 357; and John Hancock to Walter Stewart, May 9, 1776, note. 3 Probably Rodney’s May 23 letter to John Haslet, which has not been found, but see Haslet’s undated response to it in Rodney, Letters (Ryden), pp. 86-87.
