102 May 30, 1776 to take his Firelock and his Spade. Such imminent Dangers level all Distinctions. You must before now, have seen Some important Resolutions of this Congress, 3 as well as of Seperate Colonies. Before many Weeks you will see more. Remember me with every sentiment of Friendship and Respect to all who deserve well of their Country. These are all my Friends, and I have, and will have no other. I am &c. P.S. Gallies to be used mainly in Boston Harbour, the less they are the better provided they are large and strong enough to sustain the Weight of the Guns and the Shock of the Explosion. The Gallies first built in Delaware River, were too large to be handy and too small, to live and work in a Sea. We are building two of different Construction. 4 They are to carry two large Guns in the Stern and two in front—and five or six 3 Pounders on each side besides swivalls. They are built to put to sea, live and fight in a swell or a storm. They are narrow but almost 100 feet long. LB (MHi). 1 Cooper’s May 20 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi. “Adams marked this portion of the letter in parenthesis “not sent.” 3 Undoubtedly a reference to Congress’ May 10 resolution and its May 15 pre amble advising the colonies on instituting new governments. JCC, 4:342, 357-58. 4 Congress had authorized the construction of two gallies on April 13, 1776. JCC, 4:280. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings May 30th. 1776. At a meetg. of the Come. Present Morris, McKean, Hewes, Lee & Bartlett. The followg. Letr. was wrote to the Captains, Osman, Harvey &: Collins, whose vessels are now loaded on Acct, of the Continent. Sir, Philada. May 30th. 1776. We are informed the men of war have left our Capes. You are therefore to proceed to sea fast as possible, &: we have sent to the Hornet & Wasp to keep a good lookout & give you timely notice to return if the Enemy comes back before you get out. 1 MS (MH). 1 Two days later Robert Morris asked the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety to grant "a pass & Pilot” for the sloop Peggy, Capt. Thomas Patton, which was also “loaden for Acct of the Continent.” Robert Morris to the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety, June 1, 1776. Clark, Naval Documents, 5:339. The Peggy was captured by the Kingfisher on July 3 off Cape Henlopen. Ibid., p. 901.
