112 May 1776 ment of these two committees, although Wythe was a member of only the second. Worthington C. Ford, the editor of the Journals of the Continental Congress, published Wythe’s address “to the inhabitants of the . . . colonies” in a footnote to the journal entry for May 29, but he mistakenly associated the address “to the foreign mercenaries” with a committee appointed in August to stimulate desertions among the "Hessians” after they had arrived. See JCC, 4:369, 401-2, 5:707-9. The present entry, which seems clearly related to the assignment given to the committee appointed on May 21, is reprinted here in order to place it in the con text of the events that inspired it. Although Wythe was not a member of this committee, it seems likely that he drafted it at Jefferson’s request, perhaps when the two men were collaborating on the address being prepared by the second committee, a conjecture that would account for the presence of both documents in Jefferson’s papers. In any event, since Wythe left Philadelphia for Virginia in mid-June and did not return until September, he could not have been involved in preparing the address to the “Hessians” drafted by Jefferson which Congress adopted on August 27. Finally, the wording of the present address so directly reflects the conditions Congress faced at the end of May it seems highly improbable that Wythe could have drafted it for any purpose other than as a response to Congress’ resolution of May 21. John Adams to Isaac Smith, Sr. Dear sir Philadelphia June 1. 1776 Your favours of May 14 and 22d are now before me. 1 The first I shewed to Mr. Morris, as soon as I received it. The last contains In telligence, from Hallifax of the Streights to which our Enemies are reduced, which I was very glad to learn. I am very happy to learn from you and some other of my Friends that Boston is securely fortified; but still I cannot be fully satisfied untill I hear that every unfriendly Flagg is chased out of that Har bour. Cape Ann, I am sensible is a most important Post, and if the Enemy should possess themselves of it, they might distress the Trade of the Colony to a great Degree. For which Reason I am determined to do every Thing in my Power to get it fortified at the Continental Expence. I cant be confident that I shall succeed but it shall not be my Fault if I dont.' 2 I am very glad you gave me your Opinion of the Utility of that Harbour and of the Practicability of making it secure, because I was not enough acquainted with it before to speak with Precision about it. Your Observations upon the oppressive severity of the Old Regu lations of Trade in subjecting Ships and Cargoes to Confiscation for the Indiscretion of a Master or Mariner, and upon the Artifice and Corruption which was introduced respecting Hospital Money, are very just: But if you consider the Resolution of Congress, and that of Virginia of the 15th of May, the Resolutions of the two Carolinas
