June 1, 1776 113 and Georgia, each of which Colonies, are instituting new Govern ments, under the Authority of the People; if you consider what is doing at New York, New Jersey, Pensilvania, and even in Maryland, which are all gradually forming themselves into order to follow the Colonies to the Northward and Southward, together with the Treaties with Hesse, Brunswick and Waldeck and the Answer to the Mayor &c. of London; I believe you will be convinced that there is little Probability of our ever again coming under the Yoke of British Regulations of Trade. The Cords which connected the two Countries are cutt asunder, and it will not be easy to splice them again, to gether. I agree with you, in sentiment, that there will be little Difficulty in Trading with France and Spain, a great deal in dealing with Portu gal, and some with Holland. Yet by very good Intelligence I am convinced, that there are great Merchants in the United Provinces and even in Amsterdam, who will contract to supply you with any Thing you want, whether Merchandize or military Stores by the Way of Nieuport and Ostend, two Towns which are subject to the Empress of Austria, who has never taken any public Notice of the Dispute between Britain and Us, and has never prohibited her Subjects from supplying us with any Thing. There is a Gentleman, now in this City, a Native of it, and a very worthy Man who has been lately in those Towns as well as Amster dam, who informs me that he had many Conversations there, with Merchants of figure, and that they assured him they should be glad to contract to furnish us with any Supplies, even upon Credit, for an Interest of four Per Cent. Other Intelligence to the same Purpose, with Additions of more Importance, has been sent here. But the Particulars may not be mentioned. Europe seems to be in a great Commotion; altho the Appearance of a perfect Calm is affected, I think this American Contest will light up a general War. What it will end in, God alone knows, to whose wise and righteous Providence I chearfully submit, and • am with great Esteem and Respect for the Family, your Friend & servant. LB (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:1-2. 1 Isaac Smith’s letters of May 14 and 22 are in Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 1:409, 413-14. In his letter of May 22, Smith refers to the reception of letters from Adams dated April 29 and May 6, 1776, neither of which has been found. 2 On March 23 Adams had been appointed to the committee to supervise the fortification of ports. JCC, 4:233. Subsequently the committee asked Washington to appoint engineers to inspect the ports of Cape Ann, Mass., and New London, Conn. See Committee on Fortifying Ports to George Washington, April 14; and Washington’s letters to the committee of April 22 and June 8, 1776, in Washing ton, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 4:504, 5:109-10.
