114 June 1, 1776 Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, Philadelpa 1 June 1776 I Wrote to you the 25 and 16 last which I hope you have reed. 1 It is now a long time which I have been here, and I do most sincerely Wish to return to the Pleasures of a domestick rural Life, such a Life as Poets and Wise men have always with so much Propriety praised. Here I see but little except human Faces which I know not, and numerous Pyles of Building, which have long since Satiated the Sight, and the street rumble is farr from being musical. But as I was not sent here to please myself, I shall cheerfully yeild to my Duty, convinced of this Truth, that the Noise and Bustle of this World are the best Lessons to teach a man how few are it’s Injoyments. You See by the Papers that our inverterate Foes threaten us with a large Armament this Summer, tho I rather think their Land Forces will not probably be more than about Thirty Thousand. These may be principally employed in Canada, N York and that Provence. These exertions of our Enemies will call for the like on our part. A Considerable Augmentation therefore will likely be made to our Army for the Canada and other Services and the Troops will be raised at the eastward. The Disadvantage which the Enemy are under in carrying on a War at such a Vast Distance is Very great and if they fail of any considerable success this summer, it may go near to put an End to the Controversy. I think We have no Reason to be discouraged. Our Cause is just. We may therefore Hope God will as he has done appear to Vindicate it. Our Resources are Numerous. By Olivers Letter by Delucence I learn that you was well and the Family, which was a great Satisfaction to Me to hear. My Freinds at Litchfeild Write to Me but seldom, so that I know but little about them. I mentioned to you in my last that I hoped to Visit my Family the latter End of the Next Month, which I still purpose. It will be more agreable to my Colleuges to go home then than earlier; and as it will give me an Opportunity of being out of this City in the hottest Season Shall Submit to it. By the Blessing of God I Still injoy Health. May the best of Heavens Blessings be your Portion. My Love to my Children and be assured that I am yours Affectionately, Oliver Wolcott P.S. Since I Wrote my Letter reed. Letters from Dr. Smith, Mr. Champion, Mr. Lyman. I am glad to hear that you and Family are well but as the Post goes out immediately I shall not be able to Write further, but shall Send againe by the next Post. RC (CtHi). 1 See Wolcott’s letters to Samuel Lyman, May 16, note, and to Laura Wolcott, May 25, 1776.
