June 2, 1776 119 But he should consider the claim of France on America which was mostly taken from her. Now the case was different as to Holland. But he seems to hint we dont want any internal assistance but only as to trade &c. If we dont, I hold no argumt. At least I see, tho he does not [c]are to own it. He agrees that our independance is by compulsion. If that is granted I hold no argumt there neither. All that I urged was that the Pure British Constitution was not to be so repro bated as Common Sense had done it.” 2 William Franklin’s May 30 proclamation calling for the general assembly to meet on June 20 was cited by the New Jersey Provincial Convention as justification for their June 14 order for his arrest. See Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:626, 967-68; Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant to John Adams, June 15, note; and John Hancock to John Witherspoon, June 19, 1776. 8 The March 22 “Address and Petition of the Lord Mayor, Aidermen, and Com mons of the City of London" and the king’s reply are in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:462-63. William Whipple to Joshua Brackett My Dear Sir Philadelphia, 2nd June, 1776 I am much obliged by your favor of the 21st ult. I must confess that I something wonder that people should move their families and effects into town just at this time, when Britain is collecting her whole strength, aided by every possible Foreign power, she can en gage and determined to push the war with the utmost fury. I by no means think she will be able to execute her plans, but still I think it would be prudent for people who move there effects into the country to secure them from danger, to let them remain while the danger continues. My greatest objection to these movings is, that if there should be an alarm, people will be engaged about their goods when they should have arms in their hands to oppose the enemy. As every thing depends on this summer’s campaign, every nerve should be exerted and if we are successful, which by divine assistance I am in no doubt of, our enemies will not be able to support the war another year. The terms on which Britain has taken troops of the German States will undoubtedly render her contemptible in the eyes of all Europe. 1 Tr (MH). 1 In addition to this fragment of Whipple’s letter, the following extract and sum mary of additional subjects Whipple discussed was printed in a 1967 auction catalog describing the letter. “ ‘You want to know when another name is to be adopted instead of the United Colonies; the free Independent States of America is the common toast in this City fe I hope ere long will be established by Con gress. . . .’ Mentions his brother’s problems, naval action on the Delaware river, and vessals arriving from the West Indies with ammunition and supplies.” Parke- Bernet Galleries Catalog, no. 2569 (May 16, 1967), item 66.
