June 3, 1776 121 The Agent is not yet appointed. I still intend to insist on my first proposal. My regards to your friends and accept the best wishes of, your assured friend, Wm Whipple FC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973); endorsed: “J. Langdon June 2d, sent off 4th.” Tr (DLC). FC incomplete; last paragraph and signature taken from Tr. ’John Langdon’s May 20 letter to Whipple is in Clark, Naval Documents, 5:159-60. 2 See Whipple to Langdon, May 7, 1776. “See Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon, June 3, 1776. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia June 3. 1776 1 The last Evening, Mess. Adams, P[aine] and Gferry] and my self, by Agreement waited on the P[resident] at his House, in order to accompany him to the Generals, to request that Gates and Mifflin might be sent immediately, to take the Command at Boston. 2 The P. we found very ill of a violent fitt of the Gout, unable to go abroad. At our Disire, he sent a Card to the G. requesting his Company, who soon afterwards came. This Conversation would make a Figure in History. It turned upon the general State of Affairs in the military Departments, and the Characters of the principal Officers in the Army. I dont think it prudent to commit to Writing the Particulars. But a few Reflections that occurred, may be safely written. One is this. There is so much of Accident in the Appointment of Officers, even where they are chosen by the People or their Representatives, and their Characters are of such vast Importance, after they are ap pointed, and in Times like these when there are so many Jealousies, Envys, and Distrusts abroad from whence so many Calumnies arise, that it is absolutely necessary to support the Characters of Officers whenever you can, to be silent when you cannot, untill you are furnished with sufficient Evidence of their Faults and Guilt, and then censure, and punish. LB (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:5-6. 1 There is no evidence that a copy of this letter was ever sent; and it was not enumerated in a list of letters that John later provided Abigail. See Adams to Abigail Adams, June 26, 1776. 2 On this point, see Massachusetts Delegates to George Washington, May 16; and Samuel Adams to Horatio Gates, June 10, 1776.
