June 3, 1776 123 are not sensible of this and they will certainly Suffer for their Indiscretion. Events of such magnitude as those which present them selves now in such quick succession, require constant Attention and mature Deliberation. The little Pamphlet you mention which was published here as an Antidote to the Thoughts on Government and which is whispered to have been the joint Production of one Native of Virginia and two Natives of New York, I know not how truly, will make no Fortune in the World. It is too absurd to be considered twice. It is contrived to involve a Colony in eternal War. The Dons, the Bashaws, the Grandees, the Patricians, the Sachems, the Nabobs, call them by what Name you please, Sigh, and groan, and frett, and sometimes Stamp, and foam, and curse—but all in vain. The Decree is gone forth, and it cannot be recalled, that a more equal Liberty, than has prevailed in other Parts of the Earth, must be established in America. That Exuberance of Pride, which has produced an insolent Domination, in a few, a very few oppulent, monopolizing Families, will be brought down nearer to the Confines of Reason and Moderation, than they have been used. This is all the Evil, which they themselves will endure. It will do them good in this World and every other. For Pride was not made for Men only as a Tormentor. I shall ever be happy in receiving your Advice, by Letter, untill I can be more compleatly so in seeing you here in Person, which I hope will be soon. I am with Sincere Affection and Esteem, dear sir, your Friend and very humble servant. LB (MHi). 1 Henry’s May 20 letter is in Adams, Works (Adams), 4:201-2. 2 Henry had suggested that the Mississippi River might provide the best route for American ambassadors to reach French officials in the West Indies. Ibid., p. 201. Josiah Bartlett to Mary Bartlett My Dear, Philadelphia June 3rd. 1776 Last Saturday I reed your 2nd letter Dated 17th May and am very thankful to hear that you and my family are well and that my friend Lieut Pearson is Recovering his health again. I hope this will find you and yours well as it leaves me and that we may all retain our health till by the leave of Providence we meet again in Safety. This is the 4th letter I have wrote you from this place, beside the one I wrote by Col. Gale, the Dates are May 18th, 21st & 28th, 1 all which I hope are come safe to hand, that of the 21st I sent by the way of Portsmouth, the other two directed to be left at Newbury
