124 June 3, 1776 Port. I want much to know whether those sent to Newbury come Seasonably to you. The post takes your letters from Newbury some times on Tuesday & the next Saturday week they arrive here. The weather here pleasant and Seasonable tho, two nights last week so cold I am told there was a white frost here. All last week there was plenty of green peas in the market here— Strawberries and Cherries just begin to be brought in. We have reed, certain intelligence that Brittain is Determined to use her utmost endeavors this year to Subdue us. The Congress have Determined to oppose them with all their power and have agreed to send 8 Regiments of Militia of 750 men each to joyn our army in Canada: one of the Regiments is to be raised in the western parts of our Province, four in Massachusetts, 2 in Connecticut, Sc one in N.Y.— and 25 thousand men more are to be raised between New Hampshire Sc Maryland viz in Mass, Conn, N.Y., N.J., Penn Sc Maryland for the Defense of the Sea Coasts. 2 As to the Enemy attacking this place I am in no fear of it, Nay I rather wish it for the Difficulties will be so great that I am almost sure they must be Defeated. It is said that Canada Sc New York will be their principal objects, tho it is likely they will make attacks on some other places. I hope the Americans will play the man for their country Sc for their all, and that kind Providence will give us success Sc victory that the wickedness and villany of our Enemies will fall on their own heads, and that America may be forever seperated from the Tyranny of Brittain. French vessels frequently arrive here. Two came up to this city yesterday their loading chiefly Cotton, molasses, sugar, coffee, Can vass See. Last Saturday an American vessel arrived from the French West Indies with 7400 lb. of powder, 149 stand of arms, beside a large quantity of other articles. I hope you wont fail to write to me every week for receiving letters from you is next to seeing you. Tell Polly Sc Lois I reed, their’s and am glad to hear they are well. Remember my love to them Sc to all the children. Give my regards to Mr. Thayer, Lieut Pearson, Capt Calef, James Procter and All my friends. I am yours See, Josiah Bartlett P.S. I shall for the present write to you by Tuesdays post which will convey them to Newbury the next Friday week. This goes off this Day the 4th Sc I expect will get to Newbury the 14th 8c to you the 15th. The same day I expect to Receive yours which will leave New bury to Day or tomorrow morning. I am now well. J. B. Tr (Mrs. Rodney M. Wilson, Kingston, N.H., 1975). 1 Only Bartlett’s May 18 letter has been found. 2 For the resolutions raising troops for the coming campaign, see JCC, 4:410-13.
