June 3, 1776 133 Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council Sir Philadelphia June 3d 1776 We received your Favour of the 10th May with the Inclosures, 1 & having communicated such a part thereof as was necessary to Congress, beg Leave thro You to inform the honorable Assembly that the Sum of 30,000 Dollars is ordered to be sent them for the purpose of exchanging it for Specie. We inclose a Copy of the Resolve by which It will appear how the latter is to be disposed of, 2 & think it will be necessary to place to the account of the united Colonies the Sum mentioned in your Letter as delivered to Colo. Porter, & any other Sums of Money that may be delivered in Conse quence of the Resolve aforsd, since the Colony is charged with the Sums advanced it by Congress. We find in an Account sent by the General Court to General Washington & by him transmitted to Congress a Charge of 3000 lbs of Powder delivered by Governor Trumbull on Account of the Colony more than is contained in the Account You inclosed Us; And as the General is now here & informs Us that he shall write to General Ward Directions to deliver to the Colony the whole of the Powder which is due from the Continent, We inclose the last men tioned Account & Vouchers to be adjusted accordingly. We shall send forward the Money mentioned above & 21000 Dol lars granted by Congress for raising the two Battalions lately ordered to be raised in Massachusetts Bay 3 8c are sir with great Respect for yourself & the honorable Assembly, your most huml servants. At the Desire 8c in behalf of the Delegs, of Massachusts. Signed, John Hancock RC (M-Ar). Written by Elbridge Gerry and signed by John Hancock. Addressed: “To The Honorable The President of the Council of Massachusetts Bay To be Communicated to the Honorable Assembly, Watertown.” 'James Otis, Sr., had informed the Massachusetts delegates of efforts to collect specie for the army in Canada and had enclosed an account of powder "delivered out of the Colony Magazine” to the Continental Army while it was at Cam bridge. Otis to the Massachusetts Delegates, May 10, 1776, PCC, item 65, 1:85-86; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:419. 2 See JCC, 4:318-19, 397. 8 See JCC, 4:380. Willing, Morris & Co. to William Bingham Sir Philada. June 3d. 1776 You will find enclosed herein a Copy of our letter to Mr. Sami. Beall 1 respectg the Adventure in Powder under his management in
