134 June 3, 1776 which we have interested you to the Amount of Five hundred pounds Sterlg & as it is most likely he will come out with his Goods Via Martinico we hope You will have the pleasure of seeing him there. If he comes out to St Eustatia lodge orders for you to be informed of it & as you will have frequent intelligence from us & the best opportunitys for Shipping Goods We hope this adventure may be brought to a happy Conclusion for us all. If you think proper to write to Mr Beall address him under Cover to Messrs. Delap at Bourdeaux & if you hear any thing of him do not fail to advise us. As you are likely to remain sometime in the West Indies it may probably fall in Your way to make Connections with some good Houses that will Ship West India Produce this way & have in return the produce of these Colonies, we shall be ready to transact such business & will Credit you half the Coms, on the Sale of their Goods that is on any parcells you procure to our address. You may probably have it in your Power to purchase some Linnens or other European Manufactures on a Credit untill we can have time to remit You produce to pay for them. If so we agree to be half Concerned with you in such Adventures and you may Ship back by the Hornet some Packages of such Goods to the Arnot of £1000, or Fifteen hundred pounds this Cury Value Consigning the same to us. We will sell them to the best advantage free of Coms., you charging no Coms, on the purchase nor on the Sale of the returns which we shall ship to you directly in this Country produce, and in this way we will keep up a Constant intercourse with You. If you cannot get goods on Credit We must furnish You with Effects to make such purchases &: for this & other purposes Youl keep us constantly informed of what is passing in the mercantile line. Wishing You a pleasant & successfull Voyage, We are, Sir, Your obedt hble servts, Willing, Morris & Co. RC (DLC). Written by Robert Morris. 1 Probably Willing, Morris & Co.’s letter to Samuel Beall of March 6, 1776. See Clark, Naval Documents, 4:199-201. John Adams to Hugh Hughes Sir Philadelphia June 4. 1776 Yours of May 29 came safe to Hand, and am much pleased to find that your Citizens have behaved with so much Wisdom, Unanimity, and Spirit. 1 Yet I was disappointed that you did not inclose their Votes. I am very glad Mr J 2 is with you, and hope he will be of great Service there but will he not be for making your Governor and Councillors for Life or during good Behaviour? I should dread such
