June 4, 1776 135 a Constitution in these perilous Times, because however wise and brave and virtuous these Rulers may be at their first appointment, their Tempers, and Designs will be very apt to change, and then they may have it in their Power to betray the People, who will have no Means of Redress. The People ought to have frequently the opportunity, especially in these dangerous Times, of considering the conduct of their Leaders, and of approving or disapproving. You will have no safety without it. The Province of Pensilvania is in a good Way, and will soon be come an important Branch of the Confederation. The large Body of the People will be possessed of more Power and Importance, and a proud Junto of less: and yet Justice will I hope be done to all. I wish you Happiness, Promotion, and Reputation in the service, and am, with much Respect, your servant LB (MHi). 1 Hughes had informed Adams that New York citizens had met and instructed the provincial convention "on that most important of all sublunary affairs, in order that application may be made to your honorable House.” Hughes to Adams, May 29, 1776, Adams Papers, MHi. On May 29 the “General Committee of Mechanicks in union, of the City and County of New York” had sent a peti tion to the New York Provincial Convention urging them to instruct the New York delegates in Congress "to use their utmost endeavours in that august as sembly to cause these United Colonies to become independent of Great Britain.” Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:614-15. 2 Probably John Jay. John Adams to Richard Lee Sir 1 Philadelphia June 4. 1776 Your Favour of 18 May, 2 inclosing the momentous Resolution of your wise and patriotic Convention, 3 together with the American Crisis came duely to Hand, and yesterday, I had the Pleasure of receiving the Proceedings of the House of Burgesses. I thank you, sir, for both these esteemed Favours. Is it not a little remarkable that this Congress and your Conven tion should come to Resolutions so nearly Similar, on the Same day, and that even the Convention of Maryland should, in that critical Moment, have proceded so far as to abolish the oaths of allegiance, notwithstanding that Some of their other Resolves are a little excentric? Your Resolution is consistent and decisive, it is grounded on true Principles which are fairly and clearly stated, and in my humble opinion the Proviso which reserves to yourselves the Institution of your own Government is fit and right, this being a Matter of which the Colonies are the best Judges, and a Priviledge which each Colony
