136 June 4, 1776 ought to reserve to it self. Yet after all I believe there will be much more Uniformity in the Governments which all of them will adopt than could have been expected a few Months ago. The Joy and Exultation which was expressed upon that great occasion did Honour to their good sense and public Virtue. It was an important Event at a critical Time, in which the Interest and Happiness of themselves and their Posterity, was much concerned. Hopkins’s Fleet has been very unfortunate: a dreadful sickness had raged among his Men, and disabled him from putting more than two of his Vessells to sea. To what Place they are gone I know not—Perhaps to cruise for Transports. I am, sir, with great respect, your most humble servant LB (MHi). 'Richard Lee (1726—95), Virginia planter, served several terms as a burgess from Westmoreland County before 1775, was a member of the Virginia Conven tion in 1775-76, and subsequently was elected several times to the House of Delegates. Edmund Jennings Lee, ed., Lee of Virginia, 1642-1892 . . . (Philadel phia: Privately printed, 1895), pp. 287-90. ’This letter is printed as Richard Henry Lee to John Adams, May 18, 1776, in Adams, Works (Adams), 9:374. ’The Virginia Convention’s May 15 resolution on independence. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1524. John Hancock to Certain Colonies Gentlemen, Philada. June 4th. 1776. Our Affairs are hastening fast to a Crisis; and the approaching Campaign will in all Probability determine for ever the Fate of America. Such is the unrelenting Spirit which possesses the Tyrant of Britain and his Parliament, that they have left no Measure un essayed, that had a Tendency to accomplish our Destruction. Not satisfied with having lined our Coasts with Ships of War to starve us into a Surrender of our Liberties, and to prevent us from being supplied with Arms & Ammunition, they are now about to pour in a Number of foreign Troops; who from their Want of Connections and those Feelings of Sympathy which frequently bind together the different Parts of the same Empire, will be more likely to do the Business of their Masters without Remorse or Compunction. By the best Intelligence from Canada it appears, that our Affairs in that Quarter wear a melancholy Aspect. Should the Canadians & Indians take up Arms agt. us (which there is too much Reason to fear) we shall then have the whole Force of that Country to contend with, joined to that of Great Britain, & all her foreign auxiliaries. In this Situation what Steps must we pursue? Our Continental
