June 4, 1776 137 Troops alone are unable to stem the Torrent; nor is it possible at this Day to raise & discipline Men ready to take the Field by the Time they will be wanted. From the Secrecy with which the Ministry carry on their Machina tions, we neither know their Views, or how near our Enemies may be. Perhaps at this Moment they are landing on some Part of our Country. In this difficult & trying Situation of our Affairs, the Congress have come to the enclosed Resolves, which I have it in Command to transmit you by Express, containing Matters of the greatest Im portance, and to which I beg Leave to request your Attention. You will there find, the Congress have judged it necessary to call upon the Militia at this alarming Crisis. 1 Should the united Colonies be able to keep their Ground this Campaign, I am under no Apprehensions on Acct, of any future one. We have many Disadvantages at present to struggle with, which Time and Progress in the Art of War, will remove. But this Cir cumstance should rouse us to superior Exertions on the Occasion. The Militia of the United Colonies are a Body of Troops that may be depended upon. To their Virtue their Delegates in Congress, now make the most solemn Appeal. They are called upon to say, whether they will live Slaves, or die Freemen. They are requested to step forth in Defence of their Wives, their Children, their Liberty, and every Thing they hold dear. The Cause is certainly a most glorious one and I trust every Man in the Colony of New Hampshire, 2 is determined to see it gloriously ended, or to perish in the Ruins of it. In short on your Exertions at this Critical Period, together with those of the other Colonies, in the Common Cause, the Salvation of America now evidently depends. Your Colony, I am persuaded, will not be behind hand. Exert therefore every Nerve to distinguish yourselves. Quicken your Preparations, and stimulate the good Peo ple of your Govt.—and there is no Danger, notwithstanding the mighty Armament with which we are threatened, but you will be able to lead them to Victory, to Liberty & to Happiness. I have the Honour to be Gent., your most obedt & very hble Serv. J. H. Prst. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “The Honble Convention of New Hamp shire. The Honble Assembly of Massachusetts Bay. The Honble Govr. Trumbull. Honble Convention of New York. Honble Convention of New Jersey. Honble Assembly of the Govt, of New Castle, Kent & Sussex on Delaware. Honble Con vention of Maryland.” 1 See JCC, 4:410-15. This day Hancock also wrote a letter to Paymaster General William Palfrey, commending to his attention “Col. [Daniel] Roberdeau of this City ... a Gentleman distinguished for his Benevolence towards all Men . . . a zealous American, and a Friend of mine.” Palfrey Papers, MH. 2 Or any one of the other six provinces to which a copy of this letter was directed.
