June 5, 1776 145 officer in the Connecticut militia from 1775 until the end of the war and was later a probate judge and a member of the Connecticut legislature. Henry R. Stiles, The History and Genealogies of Ancient Windsor, Connecticut, 2 vols. (Hartford: Case, Lockwood, and Brainard Co., 1892), 2:520. 2 On May 21 Congress approved a series of resolutions concerning the treat ment of prisoners. See JCC, 4:370-73. 3 For further information about Roger Enos, as well as Smith’s oration, see Wolcott to Laura Wolcott, March 19, 1776, note 2. ‘ See JCC, 4:410. 3 See JCC, 4:412-13. 3 Anticipating the difficulties the colonies might experience in meeting the latest call for militia support, Congress resolved on May 29 “that an animated address be published to impress the minds of the people with the necessity of their now stepping forward to save their country, their freedom and property.’’ Although there is no evidence that such an address was ever approved or pub lished, a fragment in George Wythe’s hand, which was probably a committee draft, is in the Thomas Jefferson Papers, DLC, and is printed in JCC, 4:401-2. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia June 5th. 1776. The Congress having this Day made several Promotions in the Army of the United Colonies, and established some Rules for the future Direction of the Deputy Commissaries general, Deputy Quarter Master General &c I do myself the Pleasure to enclose you a Copy of the same. 1 I delivered Col. Reed his Commission, & have sent Mr. Whitcomb, Mr. Mercer & Mr Moyland theirs. 2 Should you stand in Need of any more blank Commissions, they shall be immediately forwarded, on your letting me know it. I entirely forgot to make Enquiry into the Matter while you was in this City. Having Nothing further in Charge from Congress at this Time, I beg Leave to assure you that I am, with the greatest Respect and Esteem, Sir, your most obedt. and very hble Sevt. John Hancock Presidt June 6. P.S. This Morning two small Privateers arrived here after a very successful Cruise, having taken three West India Ships with 22,420 Dollars on Board, 1052 Hhds & Trs. [Tierces] of sugar, 70 Pipes best Madeira Wine, and a Variety of other Articles. The Captain and Owner this Moment called to acquaint me, the Money is now in this City, and have generously made an offer of it to the Congress. I have this Morning advanced thirty Dollars to Fessenden in Part of his Account, which you will please to deduct on Settlement. RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 5:418-20.
