June 5, 1776 147 New Governments in every Colony and in Conclusion a declaration of Independancy by Congress. I see this step is inevitable and you may depend it will soon take place. Great Britain may thank herself for this Event, for whatever might have been the original designs of some Men in promoting the present Contest I am sure that America in general never set out with any View or desire of establishing an Independant Empire. They have been drove into it step by step with a reluctance on their part that has been manifested in all their proceedings, & yet I dare say our Enemies will assert that it was planned from the first movements. The Dogs of Warr are now fairly let loose upon us. We are not dismayed but expect to give a good Account of the Numerous hosts of Foes that are coming to Slaughter us, especially your Hessians, Hanoverians, Waldeckers 8cc. Our Cli mates will most probably handle them pretty severely before they get seasoned and our Troops are pretty well prepared for their reception but the Fortune of Warr being ever uncertain God only knows what may be the Event. Our affairs in Canada have been badly managed by Your Country man Genl Worster but I hope Genl. Thomas & your Friend Arnold will invigorate them. However I dont think we have any occasion to hold that Country, if we maintain the passes on the Lakes it is sufficient for our purposes and the Garrison that defend those passes will always be ready to rush into Canada if the Enemy quit it, so that a good Force well posted for this purpose may keep Mr. Bur goyne with his 10,000 men uselessly employed the whole year with out any expence of ammunition or loss of Men on our side unless they attack exceedingly to their own disadvantage. Genl. Washing ton has taken post at New York. He has lately been here attended by Genl. Gates & Genl. Mifflin and the plan of operations has been fully settled in several Conferences between them 8c a Committee of Congress appointed for that purpose 8c in Consequence of the ar rangements made we shall have not less than 30,000 men ready to take the Field, so divided 8c posted as to oppose the Enemys attacks wherever made. Genl. Lee commands to the Southward and I fancy that depart ment will be well defended. We are to have a flying Camp of 10,000 men here the Commander of which is not yet named. Genl. Wash ington at New York, Gates at Boston, Thomas in Canada & each of these are well supported by able General officers and we hope a Sufficient number of Troops. We are better supplyd with Powder than formerly; our Mills make it fast 8c some of the Colonies have had great success in making Salt Petre. Arms we are most in Want of, but our manufactorys of them improve 8c increase daily. In short it appears to me We shall be able to baffle all attempts of our Enemy, if we do but preserve Union amongst ourselves. I dont mean the Union of the Colonies, but union in each Colony. The former is
