150 June 5, 1776 the man. 1 If you and he will talk with Such persons as you think proper for Lieuts and marine officers and let me know who will accept, I will have them commissioned. It’s idle to have the Com missions filled up before we know whether they will be accepted or not. You may engage the master and all warrant and petty officers that you think necessary as soon as you please. I know of no objec tion to the men being shipped, only the uncertainty when the guns will be ready. Just received advice that two small privateers belong ing to this place have taken three Jamaica men with very valuable cargoes, 24000 dollars in specie. 2 The money is arrived at Egg Harbor but the ships are sent to the Eastward. I fear they will fall into the hands of the enemy—now is the time to pick up homeward bound West India men. It’s now 12 o’clock; high bed time. Good night, W Whipple Tr (DLC). ’See JCC, 5:422. a See lohn Hancock to Philip Moore and James Craig, June 13, 1776. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear sir Philada. June 6 1776 I have for some time past been expecting to visit my Friends in New England, which has made me the less sollicitous of writing to them, but Business of the most interesting Importance has hitherto detained me here. Our Affairs in Canada have of late worn a dis pleasing Aspect, 1 but Measures have been adopted which I trust will repair Misfortunes and set Matters right in that Quarter. This will, in my opinion, be an important Summer, productive of great Events which we must be prepard to meet. If America is virtuous, she will vanquish her Enemies and establish her Liberty. You know my Temper—Perhaps I may be too impatient. I have long wishd for the Determination of some momentous Questions. If Delay shall prove mischeivous, I shall have no Reason to reflect upon my self. Every one here knows what my Sentiments have been. However, tomorrow a Motion will be made, 2 and a Question, I hope, decided, the most important that was ever agitated in America. I have no Doubt but it will be decided to your satisfaction. This being done, Things will go on in the right Channel and our Country will be saved. The Bearer waits. Adieu, S A [P.S.] Let me intreat you, my Friend, to exert your Influence to prevent unnecessary Questions in the Assembly which may cause Contention. Now if ever Union is necessary. Innovations may well enough be put off, till publick Safety is secured.
