154 June 6, 1776 Robert Morris to Silas Deane Dear Sir, Philada June 6th. 1776 I have already wrote you a Political letter 1 & intend this as Commercial. Since you left us the Men of Warr have given us an opportunity of trying the use of our Galleys or Gondolas. The Roe buck of 44 Guns & Liverpool of 26 Guns came up the River oppo site to Wilmington Creek for fresh Water, our little fleet attacked them there but not knowing their own Strength or not having sufficient Confidence in it, they kept at too great a distance the first day, but the second they begun to know themselves a little better and attacked them again very Smartly. They drove the Roebuck inshoar 8c with good management might have taken her, however they greatly damaged that Ship 8c obliged both her & the Liverpool to push back again to the Capes 8c from there to Sea leaving behind them a Transport Brigts which our People took from them. All this youl think has little to do with Commerce but thats a mistake for in Consequence of this Action all the Fleet of Merchantmen have got safe out to sea, several vessels have got safe in and we have some trade revived 8c Consequently a better prospect of making remit tances to you than at the time you Sailed. Our Cruizers are also got out and I expect will be very serviceable and continue increasing their number 8c shall Constantly go on making additions to our Navy but we want our Seamen home again. The Congress has Voted a Bounty of Eight Dollars to be paid to the Owners of every Vessell, for each Seaman they bring in over 8c above the proper Number that navigates the Vessell which youl make known all over Europe if you can 8c Seamens wages in the Merchants Service here is now at 16 Dollars per Month. 2 The Polly, Capt McFadden, has been long detained 8c the Rascall of a Captn left her and persuaded the Sea men to do the same. She is now Commanded by Capt Philip Lacey and I hope is got out to Sea before this date. The Contractors for Indn Goods will Continue making remittances in the best manner they can and I will by a future Conveyance furnish you a full State of what has been done but at present I really have not time. The Scarcity of Goods all over this Continent affords a fine opportunity to private adventurers, but the difficulty at present is how to Con tinue remittances during the Summer. You know it is farr more difficult than it will be during Winter. I therefore propose that you Shou’d engage Messrs Delap or some other good House of reputa tion 8c Capital to ship any quantity of Woolens 8c Linens, Pins, needles, 8cc 8cc suited for the Consumption of this Country that you Can possibly prevail on them to send either on your 8c our Account in halves, or on your, their 8c our Acct. In Thirds. Let the Goods be shipped immediately in French Ships as French property to Martinico 8c Consigned to the Friend or Correspondent of those that
