June 8, 1776 165 a.m., and that they conducted a great deal of important business later during the day, no critical analysis of this passage has been made. It is clear now, however, from the evidence of the July 4 letters of Abraham Clark and of the committee appointed that day to confer on the defense of New Jersey and Pennsylvania, that the Declaration was approved in the morning, rather than in the evening as Jefferson implies. See Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton, July 4; and Committee of Congress to the Lancaster Associators, July 4, 1776. Considering, then, those passages reviewed here that conflict with what is known about the events leading to adoption of the Declaration, it seems clear that Jeffer son’s notes—like all noncontemporary evidence—ought to be used with caution. Although undoubtedly based upon an earlier set of notes, they were surely put into their present form long after the proceedings reviewed actually occurred, at a time when some of the details of the events were no longer sharply etched in Jefferson’s mind. For a discussion of another passage from Jefferson’s notes pertaining to their general credibility—suggesting that in one particular instance Jefferson rather than his critics was probably correct—see Jefferson’s Notes of Proceedings in Congress, July 1-4, 1776, note 5. “For the continuation of these notes, see Jefferson’s Notes of Proceedings in Congress, July 1-4, 1776. John Dickinson’s Notes for a Speech in Congress [June 8-10? 1776] 1 Two Points recommended & enjoined by our Constituents. 1st. Defence. 2. Reconciliation. On this Footing & with this View they have engaged in this Contest. I shall consider the proposition in 3 Lights. 1st. As establishing an independent & seperate State & govt. 2d. As to the Right We have to take such a Step. 3d. As to the Policy of it—Bargain Difficult, already our Interest to support G.B. As to the first, I would ask if such a Declaration does not necessarily involve in it an Assurance to foreign States, that during the Course of such a War We will maintain the Rights of Neutrality according to the well known Laws of Nations & consequently the free & equal admission of the ships &: vessels of the belligerent Powers? If it does involve such an Assurance, does it not also involve in it necessarily an Engagement of Protection to the ships of such foreign Powers? If it does, can it be denied, that We assume a Sovereignty inde pendent on & Separate from that of the Crown of G.B.? Is not this plainly to go beyond the Limits of the present War, and to make an Establishment for a Time of Peace with G.B. totally repugnant to our former Connection with her? Is not this to wound her vitally even in the Time of Peace, by totally rescinding her Authority to regulate our Commercial Intercourse with foreign Powers? An Au-
