166 June 8, 1776 thority which We have repeatedly declared was necessarily lodged in her? In order to avoid these Conclusions will Gentlemen say—they do not mean such acts of Sovereignty. Let Us then honestly say so—& not give foreign Powers Reason to complain of our having deceived them. How then will our Proposal to them stand? That after our Reconciliation with G.B. which may perhaps be in a Year or two, We will not join our Armies or Fleets to G.B. so that we hold out the precarious profit of a few Months Trade as a Temptation to foreign Powers to come in a War with the first maritime Power in the world. But in such a Case, how are We to prevent the Crown from procuring seamen or Soldiers who are Inhabitants of the Colonies? Shall We [withstand?] Attempts in Consequence of our Declaration? This would be an Act of Sovereignty in direct opposition to the Sovereign with whom We are reconciled. But taking the proposition in the most limited Sense, without allowing the before mentioned to be fairly deduced from it, do We not [become?] an independent & separate State in the plainest Man ner? The Power of declaring Peace or War is one of the highest Powers of Sovereignty. There cannot be a Sovereignty without it—if not lodged in the Crown or King of G.B. the Sovereignty is not vested in him; it is vested in Us. 2d. Point. Our Right. Even those Delegates who are not restrained by In structions have no Right to establish an independent seperate Government for a Time of Peace. Inter arma silent Leges. Our Business is defence. Celebrated Writers deny a Power to change a Government without a full 8c free Consent of the People plainly exprest. The Sense of America as exprest is for Reconciliation. What Evidence have We of a contrary Sense? Reason 8c Justice deny our Right—of such vast Importance to present 8c succeeding [gen erations?]. It is in vain to say all Ties are dissolv’d. It is begging the Question. We are now acting on a Principle of the English Constitu tion in resisting the assumption or Usurpation of an unjust power. We are now acting under that Constitution. Does that Circumstance prove its Dissolution? But granting the present oppression to be a Dissolution, the Choice of [setting?], a Restoring it, or forming a new one is vested in our Constituents, not in Us. They have not given it to Us. We may pursue Measures that will force them into it. But that implies not a Right so to force them. Should We be justified as to our Constituents at this Time to make a Declaration of Independence at this Time? Why then to take a step that inevitably leads to it? The first would be most becoming as being most candid.
