June 8, 1776 167 3d. Point. Policy. 2 It is Politic not to engage the Faith or Honor of a Nation farther than it may be their Interest to perform. G.B. is now our Enemy, but if France or the House of Bourbon attack her, em barrassed in her Contest with Us, it may become our true Interest to support her. Case of Holland with regard to Spain. Where is the Necessity of such a Declaration? We appear strong enough to resist our Enemies this Campaign. Boston. North Caro lina. It is a favorite Maxim with some, that our Commerce is so valuable, it will protect itself. 3 Let Us see whether We overrate it. At least do not let Us undervalue it, & go a begging round the World with it, to coax States into a War for it. We have opened our Ports. Let Us act with a dignified Reserve. Let us keep ourselves Masters of our own Conduct—& reserve our Favor for the friendly state that shall most deserve it. Otherwise We throw in our Neutrality with as much Indifference as the Statuary did the Statue of [Mer cury?] to the purchaser of [Jupiter?]. By such a Conduct We shall not only act imprudently with Re gard to foreign States, but with Respect to G.B. Commissioners coming over. Many Friends there—a Clog upon Administration. We united—they divided. This measure will divide Us & unite them. Not a Man of the least Understanding there, but will be convinced from its Nature & Time that We take this step to render Reconciliation impracticable. As much so as a full Declara tion of an seperate Commonwealth. Then We shall be pushed by the united & reanimated Exertions of the whole Kingdom. If We mean Independence, it is our Business to conceal our Mean ing. Keep up the useful Opinion. England, Holland & the Empire acknowledged the Duke of Anjou King of Spain while arming to dethrone him. What Mortal can tell with Certainty that it will not be our best Interest to be reconciled to G.B.? It will depend on the Terms We can obtain. They are yet unknown. We may perhaps get such as will render Us as independent, as wise & good Men would wish for—Our Internal Commerce—such a share of foreign [commerce]—Removal of Troops—Annual Assem blies—Councillors for Life—&c. Do not let Us turn our Backs on Reconciliation till We find it a Monster too dreadful to approach. It will [foe] a bargain—to procure the aid & naval protection of G.B. We may purchase it perhaps at a reasonable price—&: in such Case would We be so unreasonable as to reject it? We are seeking now for the protection of France &c. We must pay some price I suppose for that. Dont let Us make our Case desperate & have only one Bidder for our Friendship. A Man generally sells his Goods to the most profits when there are two or three Chapmen
