168 June 8, 1776 that bid for it. This procedure would be the more extraordinary at this time, as We are actually sounding the Disposition of a very great Power—looks like an Insult not to wait for his Decision. The Friendship of G.B. has many Circumstances to recommend it. We shall have a limited Monarchy the easiest the World ever knew. A form approv’d by the greatest Geniuses that ever wrote on the subject. Tacitus. [Limitations?] of Religion, Blood, Manners, Customs, [....] The first Naval Power in the World. States of Barbary, Spain, Portugal. Stoppage of an immense 8c consuming Expense. On the other Hand, Novelty of Government, Connections, Trade, Expense, Every Thing. Commonwealth a Government the most subject to Convulsion. Rome, Greece, Holland. Switzerland preserved by its Neighbors. The first political Wish of my Soul is for the Liberty of America. The next is for a constitutional Reconciliation with G.B. If We cannot obtain the first without relinquishing the second, Let us seek a new Establishment as the Pious Aeneas did. Attolens humeris famam 8c fata Nepotum. 4 MS (PHi). In the hand of lohn Dickinson. These notes are strikingly cryptic and are strewn with abbreviations which have been expanded without brackets in this text. 1 At least two passages in these notes suggest that Dickinson wrote them at the beginning rather than near the conclusion of the debate on independence. First, in developing his “2d. Point,” Dickinson refers to "those Delegates who are not restrained by Instructions.” The passage implies that many delegates were still so restrained, suggesting the situation that existed in early lune before the instruc tions of the Pennsylvania, Delaware, and Maryland delegates were changed. Second, in discussing “the Necessity of such a Declaration” under his “3d Point,” Dickinson argues that “We appear strong enough to resist our Enemies this Campaign,” an argument that he would have been less likely to employ after mid June when the dismal facts concerning the rout of the American army from Canada became better known. Finally, although the evidence is only suggestive, the arguments developed in these notes better coincide with Jefferson’s account of the debates of June 8 and 10 than those of July 1 and 2, the four days on which the principal debates on independence took place. See Thomas Jefferson’s Notes of Debate, June 7-28 and July 1-4, 1776. For a comparison of the arguments developed in the present entry with those he articulated at the beginning of July, see John Dickinson’s Notes for a Speech in Congress, July 1? 1776. 3 At this point in the margin Dickinson penned the following cryptic remarks. “Committee of Supplies. Papers to be published in Canada. Papers to be sent to Europe. A [. . .] Address to People of Pennsylvania. Ordinance against Officers.” 3 At this point in the margin Dickinson wrote: “Amount of Money emitted in several Colonies.” ‘“Bearing aloft on his shoulders the fame and fortune of his descendants.” Virgil Aeneid 8.731. Dickinson employed the same phrase again in 1782 when he wrote a “Vindication” of his conduct during 1776. The “Vindication,” which was originally printed by Francis Bailey in his Freeman’s Journal, or the North- American Intelligencer, January 1, 1783, appears as Appendix V in Charles J.
