170 June 8, 1776 be saved but the Vessel lost. I hope she is insured. This happened at the Mouth of the Run. RC (MHi). 1 Not found. 2 For further information on the fate of the snow Champion, see Henry Fisher to the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety, June 7, 1776, in Clark, Naval Documents, 5:414-15. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull Dear sir, Philadelphia 8th June 1776 Since You left this Place You have probably reed a Confirmation of the unwelcome News which then arrived from Canada, since which Mr. Moylan is appointed Quarter Master General & Colo Reed Ad jutant General, General Whitcomb of Massa. & Colo Mercer of Connecticut Brigadiers, & the Appointment of Majir Generals are suspended for the present. General Worcester is also ordered to Head Quarters. I beleive We should have executed our Design of pro moting You to Quarter Masr. General if it can be called a promo tion, had not Congress been doubtful whether the place of so faithful a Servant could be immediately supplyed & had it not been urged (with what real Grounds You can best judge) that his Excelly. the General had mentioned the Gentleman who is appointed for this office while Dependance was placed on You in the other more im portant One. For my own part I could Wish the Alteration had taken Place as was proposed, but am doubtful whether Mr Living ston would not have obtained your Birth had You been appointed QM General which I should have considered as an Unfortunate Exchange. With Respect to Rank there will probably be no Opposi tion made to your having that of Colonel Whenever proposed & I shall be glad to know your Sentiments on the same. 1 You have doubtless heard of the Success of two small Privateers of this City in taking three homeward bound Jamaica Men with 1100 hhds Sugar, 140 puncheon Rum, 70 pipes Madeira Wine, 24000 Mexico Dollars &c &c &c. Half of the Money is on the Road from Egg Harbour &: one of the prizes arrived here last Evening. I am glad to inform You that the General is now authorized to establish Magizines of provissions & Military Stores as he shall judge expedient, &: hope it will not be too late to retreive our affair in Canada. Lord Dunmore We hear with his Regiment of Royal Africans is landed in an Island in the Susquehanna River, having been obliged to leave his former post from the fatal Sickness which prevailed in Camp, where were found 350 fresh Graves.
