180 June 9, 1776 [P.S.] The News Papers inclosed, when you have read them, please to send them to the Foot of Penns Hill. 2 RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Presumably a copy of a five-page treatise, bearing the heading “To prepare a Fireship,” which Adams copied in his letterbook immediately preceding this letter to Warren. Adams Papers, MHi. 2 That is, to Abigail Adams. Samuel Adams to Horatio Gates My dear sir Philade June 10 1776 Your Favor of the 8th Instant was brought to me by Express. 1 I am exceedingly concernd that a General officer is not yet fixed upon to take the Command of the Troops in Boston. Ever since the Enemy abandond that place I have been apprehensive that a re newed Attack would probably be made on some part of Massachu setts Bay. Your Reasons clearly show that it will be the Interest of the Enemy to make a grand push there if they are not properly- provided for a Defence. Congress judgd it necessary that a Major & Brig Genl should be sent to Boston or they would not have orderd it three Weeks ago. The wish of the Colony with regard to particu lar Gentlemen has been repeatedly urgd, and I thought that an ap pointment which has been made since you left us would have given a favorable Issue to our request. The Necessity of your taking the Command in the Eastern District immediately has been in my mind most pressing since I have been informd by your Letter that your Intelligence in respect to the attack on the Massachusetts is direct & positive. 2 It will be a great Disappointment to me if General Mifflin does not go with you to Boston. I believe that to prevent the apparent necessity for this, Genl Whitcomb was thrown into View. He is in deed in many respects a good Man, but to the other I think the pref erence must be given. The Hint you gave me when I last saw you respecting the Ene mies offers to treat, I have revolved in my Mind. It is my opinion that no such offers will be made but with a Design to take advan tage by the Delay they may occasion. We know how easily our peo ple, too many of them, are still amusd with vain hopes of Reconciliation. Such Ideas will, no doubt, be thrown out to them, to embarrass the Army as others have been; but I conceive that the General in Whose Wisdom & Valor I confide, will, without Hesita tion employ all his Force to annoy & conquer immediately upon the Enemies Approach. We want our most stable Counsellors here. To send Gentlemen of indecisive Judgments to assist as field Deputies
