June 10, 1776 181 would answer a very ill purpose. The sole Design of the Enemy is to subjugate America, I have therefore no Conception that any terms can be offerd but such as must be manifestly affrontive. Should those of a different Complexion be proposd, under the hand of their Commanding officer, the General will have the oppty. of giving them in to Congress in the space of a Day. This 1 imagine he will think it prudent to do. At the same time, I am very sure, he will give no Advantage to the Enemy, and that he will conduct our affairs in so critical a Moment in a Manner worthy of himself. I am affectionately yours, S A FC (NN). 1 Gates' letter to Adams of June 8, 1776, is in the Samuel Adams Papers, NN. “Despite Adams’ hopes. Congress decided on June 17 to appoint Gates to command the army in Canada. Artemas Ward remained in command of the Con tinental forces in Massachusetts. See JCC, 5:448; John Hancock to Artemas Ward, April 26, note 2; and Massachusetts Delegates to George Washington, May 16, 1776. Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon Dear Sir, Philadelphia June 10th 1776. Your’s of the 27th ulto is come to hand and am glad to hear you have had so good luck in building and launching the ship; 1 I hope she will prove as good a ship as any of her bigness in the British Navy. Capt Thompson is appointed to the command of her, the other officers are not yet appointed. I hope the Captain will set about raising the men and that she will be fitted for sea as soon as possible. I think with you that the brave Capt Mugford and the men on board the privateers at Boston fought gallantly and did honor to the country; but what shall we think of 500 of our men in Canada surrendering themselves prisoners to about the same number of the enemy. The accounts are very vague but thus much I believe is cer tain that almost the whole of Col Bedel’s regt and 100 men with Major Sherburne of Rhode Island are prisoners to the enemy and by what at present appears surprising surrendered without much resistance, when so large an army of our men were so near to assist them. It seems as if our men in Canada were struck with a panic. What else could be the reason of their running away from Quebec and leaving their cannon and sick and every thing behind without firing one musket. In short, I could never have believed that our men would be guilty of such conduct; however I hope and believe that when our army come to get settled and the officers and men reflect on what has passed, they will act with more spirit and retrieve their
