182 June 10, 1776 credit; the small pox among them is very frequent and very dis couraging for which we must make proper allowance, but the con duct of the hardy sons of New Hampshire is truly mysterious. You have no doubt heard of the two privateers from this place taking 3 large Jamaica ships very richly loaded. One of them is ar rived here, the other two are said to be gone for New England. The cash amounting to 22400 dollars and the plate weighting 180 lb as near as I remember was taken on board the privateers and is safe arrived here. The Liverpool, man of war, lays at the Capes of Dele- ware and has taken 2, or 3 vessels lately—one with dry goods. I want much to have our ships fitted to drive her off or take her. I shall enclose you a paper containing the Bill of Rights drawn up by Virginia. 2 You have seen the Virginia Resolves concerning Independence. I wish our Colony would give us Instructions on that head, 3 for whatever may be our private opinions, instructions from the Colony either requiring, or only authorizing us to vote in favor of it, if we should think it for the best would carry great weight with it. The Congress has been so taken up with very important business that the affair of Agency has not been mentioned since my arrival. When it does shall not be wanting in seconding Col Whipple. By one of the enclosed papers you will see that the Assembly of this Province have given new Instructions to their Delegates. 4 11th. By a letter just rec’d from Canada 6 it appears that our men had neither provision nor ammunition and that was the cause of their surrendering. I am Sir, your most humble servant and what is more, Your sin cere friend, 6 Josiah Bartlett Tr (DLC). 1 Langdon’s May 27 letter to Bartlett is in Clark, Naval Documents, 5:265. See also William Whipple to Langdon, this date. ’A draft of the Virginia declaration of rights, as reported in the Virginia As sembly on May 27, 1776, was printed in the Pennsylvania Evening Post, June 6, 1776. ’See New Hampshire Delegates to Meshech Weare, May 28, 1776, note 3. * The revised instructions to the Pennsylvania delegates were approved by the Pennsylvania Assembly on June 8 and were printed in the Pennsylvania Evening Post the same day. ’Probably the June 1 letter of Gen. John Sullivan, which was delivered to Con gress on June 11 by Samuel Chase upon his arrival from Canada. See JCC, 5:431; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:679-80. 6 On June 10 Bartlett also wrote a brief personal letter to his wife: “Yours of the 23d of May I Reed the 8th inst. and am glad to hear you are all well, that tho Sally has been unwell She is better, that Lieut Bearson is better. May Kind Providence preserve you all in health & safety till my return to you. I have had a very Severe Cold the latter End of last week but am now much better. This is the Sixth letter I have wrote you from this City Since my arrival; my last
