June 10, 1776 183 was the 6th Inst, by Express to Exeter. I want to know how soon my letters by Newbury port get to you. I am Glad you find an oppertunity to send me a letter Every week; your letters leave Newbury Tuesday afternoon & I Receive them the next Saturday week. “Last Thursday after Congress, I with 5 or 6 other Delegates walked about a mile & half out of the City to See the Proprietors Gardens. There are a great many Curious trees, Bushes, Plants &c. Among the rest the alois Plant is I think the most Curious. I Cannot Describe it as it is not like any thing I Ever Saw before. There are a number of Sweat & Sower orange trees, Lemmon trees, lime trees & Citron trees; the Same tree had some flowers, some small & some ripe fruit at the same time; the trees are about 8 or ten feet high Set in Boxes of Sand so that they can be removed in Cold weather into a hot house, so that they grow & bear fruit all the year round. “I Remember my Love to you all & Remain yours &c.” Josiah Bartlett to Mary Bartlett, June 10, 1776. Mr. Francis W. Bartlett, Kansas City, Mo. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia June 11th [t.e. 10th] 1776 1 I am honoured with your Letters of 7th, 8th and 9th Instant. The two first I have read in Congress. 2 We have been two Days in a Com mittee of the Whole deliberating on three Capital Matters, the most important in their Nature of any that have yet been before us; &: have sat till 7 O’Clock in the Evening each Day. That not being finished I judged best to return the Express. I shall press Congress as soon as possible to determine upon the several Matters you wish to be ascertained, and immediately transmit you the Result. The Congress have agreed to settle the Mode of paying the Troops in the Eastern Department this Morning, and to proceed to the Appointment of a Deputy Paymaster General. 3 The particular Mode of establishing Expresses is now under the Consideration of a Committee, and as soon as agreed, you shall know the Issue. Altho Congress have not acted upon your Queries respecting the Indians, yet I will venture to give my opinion that Congress in tended the Resolution of 25 May should be general and extend to the several Departments, and that the Resolution of 3d June goes only to the Number which the General shall be empowered to em ploy in Canada. 4 But I hope soon to give you a full Answer to all your Queries; and in future I will exert myself in Congress that your Applications may be considered as soon as received, and you punctually and regularly informed of the Result. Inclosed you have a Resolve, whereby you will see, that all the Troops in the Middle Department are put upon the same Pay 6 2/3 Dollars as the Troops in the Eastern Department. 5
