192 June 11, 1776 his Health that [he] will Proceede in the Sloop as Soon as their is any Probability of Getting out.” Clark, Naval Documents, 5:625-26; and JCC, 4:301. Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentlemen. Phila. June 11th. 1776. Tuesday. We have received your Letter by Mr Steward, 1 Also that by the Post of the 7th of this month. 2 We have confered with Mr Steward, assisted him in Changing his provincial Money for Continental and procured a recommendation from Mr Morris to those who have been concerned in fitting out the Gallies here to give him all the Informa tion in their power respecting them. We shall make Application for the Arms lent the Congress but We do not see any probability of obtaining them, none having been made or having arrived but what were immediately disposed of among the Continental Troops. It seems to be taken for granted that our Province will not be attacked, and upon this Supposition We presume it will be thought unneces sary to strengthen Us even by returning the Warlike Stores which we lent when the Scheme for marching the Militia was agitated. We in formed Congress of the Circumstances of our Province and of the Impossibility of marching the Militia out of the Province without their Consent; however our Quota for the flying Camp was struck at 3,400 as you will see by the resolve inclosed by the President, but it was not understood that the Militia were to be drafted or compelled to march. 3 And it is left altogether at large how they are to be col lected. Some additions to the Resolutions on that Subject are talked of but not formally proposed. We are astonished at the ungenerous and malevolent Turn given to the Proceedings of our convention by that of Virginia—And hope they will be as unsuccessfull in their nefarious Attempt to stir up the People of Maryland against their representatives as they have hitherto been in their Endeavours to render the Councils of that Province suspected. We are excedingly sorry to observe this unfriendly Disposition in a Neighbouring Sister Colony, but hope there will be found spirit enough in the Convention of Maryland to resent this most nefarious Treatment in the Manner it deserves. The Proposition from the Delegates of Virginia to declare the Colonies independent was yesterday after much Debate postponed for three Weeks, then to be resumed, and a Committee is appointed to draw up a Declaration to prevent Loss of time in Case the Congress should agree to the Proposition at the day fixed for resuming it. This postpone was made to give an Oppertunity to the Delegates from those Colonies, which had not as yet given Authority to adopt
