June 11,1776 193 this decisive Measure, to consult their Constituents; it will be neces sary that the Convention of Maryland should meet as soon as possible to give the explicit Sense of the Province on this Point. And we hope you will accordingly exercise your Power of convening them at such Time as you think the members can be brought together. 4 We wish to have the fair and uninfluenced Sense of the People we have the Honour to represent in this most important and interesting Affair And think it would be well if the Delegates to Convention were desired to endeavour to collect the opinion of the people at large in some Manner or other previous to the Meeting of Convention. We shall attend the Convention whenever it meets if it is thought proper we should do so. The approaching Harvest will perhaps render it very inconvenient to many Gentlemen to attend the Con vention; This however must not be regarded when matters of such momentous Concern demand their deliberation. We beg you will in form Us as soon as may be of the Time you fix for the Convention to meet, and We should also be very glad to receive the Proceedings of the last session. We see with the deepest Concern the Attempts from various Quarters to throw the Province into a State of Confu sion, Division Sc Disorder but trust the Exertions of those who are the true friends of Virtue 8c the American Cause will be adequate to the surrounding Difficulties 8c Dangers. From every Account and Appearance the King and his Ministers seem determined to hazard every thing upon the Success of the Sword; with out offering any Terms to America which she ought to accept. That Peace 8c Security which every virtuous man in this Country has so earnestly desired seems not attainable in the present disposition of the ruling powers of Britain. We wish we had any reason to suppose there was any foundation for what Mr Smith reports to have been told him by Capt Hammond 8c Ld Dunmore, but all Circumstances strongly op pose the Supposition of Commissioners, as Messengers of Peace. However we know not more of this matter than you 8c the publick do and it is impossible to speak certainly upon this or any other Subject without more full Information than we have. We will send the Gun Carriage, Instruments 8c paper by Mr Steward who informs us he has sundry Articles for the Province to be sent from hence. We begg to be informed frequently of the State of the Province and of your Proceedings: And assure you of our readiness to attend your Commands. Our hurry and necessary Attendance in Congress must apologize for this Scrawl. The Question for postponing the Declara tion of Independence was carried by seven Colonies against five. We are with great Respect, Gent., Yr most Obt Sevts. Mat. Tilghman T. Stone J. Rogers
