202 June 13, 1776 Room for Exertion and Laurels are still to be reaped in Canada. You will have a respectable Army and every Measure, We can sug gest, is taking to supply them with Necessaries. I cannot but recommend to You the most unreserved and un limited Confidence in General Schuyler. Be assured of his Integrity, Diligence, Abilities and Address. I know him well, and will be answerable for that Gentleman as for Myself. I know he is injured, basely traduced. If You have not a constant & friendly Intercourse with General Schuyler, You will fail in Canada. In a Word, inform him of every Doubt or Suspicion. He will show You his Conduct, evidenced by his Letters and Orders. You may show him this Letter and say it was my Request to You as his and your Friend, and as one of those in whom America reposes some Trust. Be attentive to this advice. More depends on it than I can explain in a Letter. You will have the assistance of many able Officers in Canada. You are acquainted with General Sullivane. General Arnold is brave, active & well acquainted in that Country. He is acquainted with Men and Things. Desire him to shew You my Letter relative to Point Au Fer, and another, of my Suspicions of some people now in our Service. Be extreamly cautious who you trust. General Thomp son has Sense to conceive and Spirit to execute. You may safely repose a Confidence in him. Colonel Sinclair [St. Clair] will be of great Service. He has prudence, bravery and a Knowledge of the Country. If he would accept I beleive he is the most proper person in Canada to be your adjutant General. Colonel Maxwell bears a high Character. Colo. Allen I know. His Vivacity & Spirit will be useful if properly directed. He will never turn his back on the Enemy. Colo. Dehaas is said to be an experienced officer. Colo. Drayton & Patterson have the Appearance of good officers. Colo nels Wayne &: Irvin are Gentlemen. There are many other Gentle men in the Army there but I am not acquainted with them, or can not at present recollect them. Mr. McCartey acts as Quarter Master. I rely on his integrity. He is a Man of Business, intimately ac- quanted with the Country and Language. Mr. Bonfield may be recommended to Mr. Trumbell as Deputy Commissary if he will accept. If Mr. Wells, who lived with Us and was acquainted with all affairs & acted as our Secretary should return to Canada, I beg Leave to mention him to your attention and Consideration. I left him in Albany. I beg to hear from you as often as possible. Remember Me to all the Gentlemen I have before mentioned. Present my most respect ful Compliments to Lord Sterling. Assure General Washington I entertain every Sentiment of Respect and Regard for him. Com mend Me to your Lady, beg her to accept, with you, my warmest wishes & beleive Me to be in all the Vicissitudes of Life, Your Affec tionate & Obedt. Servt. 2 Sami. Chase
