204 June 13, 1776 most earnestly Recommend to you a very close and strict Attention to the Business of your office. The Departmt. to which your Office extends, takes in the Colony of Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, & Connect., the Continental Troops in all those places fall under your Care. I inclose you several Resolves of Congress respecting your office, 2 which I must direct that you closely Adhere to, and you are to obey all orders from General Washington, or the Commander in Chief for the time being in the Eastern Department. You will apply to the Commanding officer at Boston for a Centinel to be plac’d at the Door of your office by Night & Day. Be carefull to make your Monthly Returns regularly to me. By next Post I shall transmit you the Pay list. Inclos’d you have your Commissn. 3 I wish you happy, and am, Your huml Servt. John Hancock Presidt. [P.S.] Inform the Comandg officer in Boston of your appointt. The 150,000 Dollars mention’d in the Resolve is on its way under the Care of my Mr Sprigs, who will deliver it to you. Send me a Rect. for the money. RC (MB). 'See JCC, 5:432. 2 Passed by Congress on lune 5. JCC, 5:418. 2 Located at MB, with signature by Hancock and attestation by Charles Thomson. John Hancock to Thomas McKean Sir Philada. 13 June 1776 Your favr. rec’d this morng. 8c have only time to Tell you that the Powder 8c Lead is order’d under Guard of a Company of Troops, 8c that a Battaln. of Associators is order’d down to your assistance. I wish success. I have it in Command to Request that your Assembly would please to order the Commandg Officer to disarm all the disaf fected in your Colony, which please to Communicate to the As sembly. 1 Excuse me, as I am hurried, Steal time to write, 8c am most Respectfully, Your very huml svt, John Hancock Prt. RC (MH). Addressed: "To the Honl Thomas McKean Esqr. at New Castle.” 1 See JCC, 5:436-37. This day McKean wrote two letters to Hancock. The first, written at two in the morning, reported that 1,000 armed tories had gathered in Sussex County to join with the British in an assault on three companies of Continental soldiers at Lewes. The second, written at seven in the evening, reported that the “insurgents" in Sussex had already dispersed but had denied that they were in league with the British or inimical to the American cause.
