June 13, 1776 205 although the assembly had failed to discover why they had gathered together in the first instance. PCC, item 78, 15:57-60; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:833. John Hancock to Philip Moore and James Craig Gentlemen, Philada. June 13th. 1776. I am directed by Congress to inform you, that the offer which the Owners made of the hard Money taken on Board their Prizes is ac cepted—and that you will please to apply to the Men for the Moiety belonging to them. The public Service calls for the Money as soon as it can possibly be had. 1 Should the Men consent to let Congress have their Share, I will immediately give Draughts on the Treasury for the Amount. It is the Request of Col. Roberdeau that the Money remain at Capt. Craig’s until further Orders. I beg Leave to thank you, and the Rest of the Owners for the Example of public Spirit, which you have, in the most unsolicited Manner, shewn upon this Occasion. I have the Honor to be, Gentlemen, your most obedient & very hble Sert. J.H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “Messrs. Moore & Craig, Agents &c.” 1 On June 12 Congress had accepted the offer of the owners of the Pennsylvania privateers Chance and Congress to exchange their “moiety” of the $22,000 in hard money taken by their vessels from the Juno, Lady Juliana, and Reynolds for the like amount in "continental dollars.” JCC, 5:432. Accounts of the capture of these three ships by the Chance and Congress are in Clark, Naval Documents, 5:154, 379, 448. Philip Moore was one of the owners of the Chance and Congress when they were commissioned as privateers in April 1776. James Craig subsequently acquired part ownership of the Chance. Ibid., 4:774-75, 5:882. John Hancock to the Pennsylvania Assembly Gentlemen, Philadelphia, 13th June, 1776. The Congress have just received Advice, that a Number of Dis affected Persons have got together in Sussex County, in Delaware Government; that there is Reason to apprehend those deluded Peo ple are supplied with Arms and Ammunition from the Men of War of our Enemies, and mean to act in Concert with them. As it is of the utmost Importance, that such Insurrections be immediately quelled and totally suppressed, the Congress have come to the fol lowing Resolution: That it be recommended to the Assembly of Pennsylvania, immed iately to order a Battalion of the Provincial Rifle-Men, now at
