206 June 13, 1776 Chester, to march to the Assistance of the Militia in Delaware Government. 1 I doubt not you will see the Necessity of an immediate Com pliance. I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, Your obedient humble Servant, John Hancock, President MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 8th ser. 8:7541. 1 See JCC, 5:436. John Hancock to Charles Preston Sir Philada. 13th June 1776 Your Letter of 3d Inst. I duly Rec’d, 8c immediately Sent to Capt Crawford the one you Inclos’d open for him. Capt Crawford will deliver you this, he agreeable to the Resolve of Congress proceeds to Reading to furnish the officers & Men with Money 8c to Determine the Rations to Mr Franks. 1 I dare Say a strict attention to the Parole in other instances will be observ’d by Capt Crawford, my Knowledge of 8c Reliance on your honour is such that I am Confident you will not suffer any Circumstances to take place that shall in the least Degree occasion an Alteration in the present Determination with re spect to the Gentlemen who are prisoners. In any thing wherein I can promote the Ease 8c happiness of the Gentlemen consistant with my Scituation depend I will with pleasure do it, 8c you will please at any time to Communicate any Occurrencies to me. I am, Sir, Your most Obedt sevt, John Hancock Prt. RC (PHi). Addressed: “To the Honl. Major Preston, Reading.” 'The letter from Maj. Charles Preston—commander of the British garrison at St. Johns that surrendered to the Americans on November 2, 1775—requesting permission for Capt. John Crawford, “Paymaster to the Twenty; Sixth Regiment," to visit British prisoners at Reading, Pa., is in PCC, item 78, 18:61, and Am. Archives, 6:691. The “Resolve of Congress” referred to is in JCC, 4:371. David S. Franks had been granted permission by Congress on February 7, 1776, to victual the prisoners at Reading. JCC, 4:116. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia 13th June 1776 I am informed that a certain Mr. Eustace, now in New York, but some time ago with Lord Dunmore, is acquainted with a practise that prevailed of taking letters out of the Post Office in Virginia and carrying them to Dunmore for his perusal and then returning them
