June 13, 1776 207 to the Office again. As it is of the greatest consequence that this nefarious practise be stopt immediately, I shall be exceedingly obliged to you Sir for getting Mr. Eustace to give in writing all that he knows about this business, and inclose the same to me at Williamsburg. I wish to know particularly, what Post Offices the letters were taken from, by whom, and who carried them to Lord Dunmore. This day I sett off for Virginia, 1 where, if I can be of any service to you, it will oblige to command me. It is more than probable that Congress will order our friend Gates to Canada. His great abilities and virtue will be absolutely necessary to restore things there, and his recommen dations will always be readily complied with. You will find that great powers are given to the Commander in that distant depart ment. The system for Canada, adopted since the arrival of the Com missioners here, will I hope be of essential service to our affairs. All good Men pray most heartily for your health, happiness, and suc cess, and none more than dear Sir Your affectionate friend and obe dient Servant, Richard Henry Lee RC (DLC). 1 Lee apparently carried with him a letter from John Rogers to Thomas Sim Lee, which was to be delivered to the latter at his Mellwood estate. Rogers’ letter was chiefly personal in nature, but it contains the following comments on public affairs. "The Canada Commissioners are returned, our affairs there are not in a very promissing scituation, but I am in great Hopes of their being very speedily put in a better state. The inclosed paper (if it comes to Hand before the Public Post) will inform of all the late intelligence in circulation of any consequence. If the Article respecting the King of France is to be relied upon I am inclined to think it will have a very considerable effect upon the Political World in general and upon America in particular.” John Rogers to Thomas Sim Lee, June 12, 1776. Dreer Collection, PHi. George Wythe probably left Philadelphia with Richard Henry Lee. In a June 17 letter to Robert Carter of Nomini Hall, Wythe reported that “Col. Lee is so obliging as to take with him the stocking-Loom-needles, with some wire, which I brought for you from Philadelphia to Hooe’s ferry, where I now am.” Signers Collection, InU. Wythe’s account with Virginia lists “Wages from 5 September, 1775, to 12 June, 1776, 281 days at 45s” for his services in Congress and indicates that he attended the Virginia convention “from Wednesday 27 June to the end of the session.” Jefferson Papers, MHi. Secret Committee Minutes of Procedings June 13. 1776. At a meetg of the Come. Present Morris, Alsop, Hewes, Lewis, Bartlett. The papers relative to the seizure of the Brige. Cornelia by the Syren Man of war being produce! &c considerd, Agreed that the follg. Acct, of the owners of sd. Brigantine be paid. 1 The Honble Cont. Congress to King & Harper, Drs.
