June 14, 1776 209 John Adams to Samuel Chase Dear Sir Philadelphia June 14. 1776 Mr Bedford put into my Hand this Moment a Card from you, 1 containing a Reprehension for the past, and a Requisition for the Time to come. For the past I kiss the Rod: but from complying with the Requisi[ti]on, at least one Part of it, I must be excused. I have no objection to writing you Facts, but I would not meddle with Characters, for the World. A burn’d Child dreads the Fire. I have Smarted to[o] severely, for a few crude Expressions, written in a Pet, to a bosom Friend, to venture on such Boldnesses again. Besides if I were to tell you all that I think of all Characters, I should appear so ill natured and censorious, that I should detest my self. By my soul, I think very heinously, I cant think of a better Word, of some Peo ple. They think as badly of me, I suppose, and neither of us care a farthing for that. So the Account is ballanced and perhaps after all both sides may be deceived, both may be very honest Men. But of all the Animals on Earth, that ever fell in my Way, your Trimmers, your double tongued and double minded Men, your dis guised Folk, I detest most. The Devil I think has a better Title to those, by half, than he has to those who err openly, and are bare faced Villains. Mr Adams ever was and ever will be glad to see Mr Chase, but Mr Chase never was nor will be more welcome than, if he should come next Monday or Tuesday fortnight, with the Voice of Maryland in Favour of Independence, and a foreign Alliance. I have never had the Honour of knowing many People from Maryland, but by what I have learnt of them and seen of their Delegates they are an open, sincere and united People—a little obstinate to be sure, but that is very pardonable when accompanied with frankness, from all which I conclude, that when they shall be convinced of the Necessity of those Measures, they will all be convinced at once, and afterwards be as active and forward as any, perhaps more so than most. I have one Bone to pick with your Colony. I suspect they levelled one of their Instructions at my Head. 2 This is a distinction of which you may suppose I am not very ambitious. One of your Colleagues moved a Resolution that No Member of Congress should hold any Office under any of the new Governments and produced an In struction to make him feel strong. I seconded the Motion with a trifling amendment that the Resolution should be that no Member of Congress should hold any office civil or military, in the Army or in the Militia under any Government old or new. This struck through the assembly like an Electric shock, for every Member was a Gover nor, or General, or Judge, or some mighty Thing or other in the
