June 14, 1776 213 LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “To Esek Hopkins Esqr commanding the Continental Ships at Newport, or elsewhere.” 1 For additional details on the sources of congressional discontent with Com modore Hopkins, culminating in his censure in Angust 1776, see Thomas Jeffer son’s Notes on the Inquiry into Esek Hopkins’ Conduct, August 12, 1776. John Hancock to the Massachusetts Assembly Honorable Gentlemen, Philadelphia June 14th. 1776. Your Letter from the Honble President of the Council was duely received. The Delegates of Massachusetts Bay, you may depend, will pay all the Regard and Attention in their Power, to the Instruc tions you are pleased to honour them with. 1 In my Letter of the 4th of June, which I hope came safe to Hand, I enclosed you sundry Resolves of Congress, relative to supplying a Part of your Militia for the Defence of the Common Cause in the present critical State of our Affairs. On the 11th Inst., in Obedience to the Commands of Congress, I sent a second Express to the several Colonies that were to furnish Troops for the Defence of New York. This last was sent in Consequence of alarming Intelligence from Genl. Washington of an intended Attack on that City by Genl. Howe with all his Forces. To the Motives suggested in my Letters on the Occasion, I can only repeat, that it is the only Measure that can possibly save us from Destruction. 2 I am extremely sorry to observe that our Affairs in Canada are on so bad a Footing. In Order however to retrieve our Misfortunes in that Quarter, a most important Step will be, to supply our Troops there with as much Gold and Silver as we can collect. You will therefore be pleased to send by Express, immediately on Receipt of this, all the hard Money in your Possession, to Genl. Schuyler, or to the Paymaster in Canada, Mr. Jona. Trumbull. I do myself the Pleasure to transmit herewith the Sum of thirty Thousand Dollars in a small Box marked and numbered, which, you will please to use your best Endeavours, to have exchanged for Specie; and also, the Sum of twenty one Thousand Dollars, in a small Box marked and numbered, for the Use of the two Battalions to be raised in our Province, which you will please to improve accordingly. There are in this Box Massachusetts Bills equal in Value to 2725 3/4 Dollars, as per List enclosed. 3 You will also be pleased to procure hard Money to the Amount of one Hundred Thousand Dollars if possible. For any Sum above the thirty Thousand Dollars now sent, which you may collect in Specie, your Bills on me, shall be duely honored. Or should you he so fortunate as to collect even more than one Hundred Thousand
