June 14, 1776 215 fifty Thousand Dollars for the Use of the Troops in that Depart ment. It is my opinion, you had better hire a Clerk immediately, and run the Risque of Congress making an Allowance for him. It is scarcely possible at this Time to get them to determine the Matter for you. A thousand Objects, infinitely more important, press on them, and demand an immediate Attention and Decision. Thus much you may depend upon, I will do all in my Power to prevail with them to make an adequate Allowance for a Clerk if you choose to employ one. Should you incline to adopt my opinion in this Matter, Mr. Wyn- throp, whom I expect every Hour, will be as fit a Person as you can find, or you shall do as you please. I am, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt [P.S.] I will Venture from the urgency of the case to Authorize you to Employ a proper person as Clerk, let him be on as easy terms as possible. RC (MH). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and postscript by Hancock. 1 Paymaster General William Palfrey’s latest extant letter to Hancock is dated June 3 and forwards a state of his accounts to the end of May. See Am. Archives, 4 th ser. 6:692. John Hancock to the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety Gentlemen, Philad’a, June 14, 1776. You will receive herewith from the commanding officer of the troops in the barracks, Mr. M'Lean, a prisoner who was sent hither by General Putnam in irons, for refusing to give his parole and for other misbehavior, the letter respecting him was referred to the com mittee appointed by Congress on prisoners, 8c the prisoner was com mitted to the charge of the Commanding officer in the barracks ’till the committee should report on his conduct, but as the troops are ordered from the barracks, I have it in command to request you to take charge of him, 8c have him safely kept agreeable to former res olutions of Congress, until the Congress shall take order concerning him. 1 I am, Gentlemen, Your obedt humble servt, John Hancock, Presidt. MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 4:773. 1 See ]CC, 5:440. Gen. Israel Putnam’s June 2 letter to Hancock about Lt. Neil McLean is in PCC, item 159, fol. 20; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:683. McLean’s
