218 June 14, 1776 mittee will be ready in a few days to enter upon the Execution of their Duty. You will see the Outlines of this Office in the enclosed Resolves. Some further Regulations, it is more than probable, will be necessary in the Course of Time. The Congress have only laid a Foundation at present. It still remains, in a great Measure, to erect a System of Rules and Laws that will enable us to carry on our mili tary operations with more Knowledge, Certainty, and Dispatch. I have paid Capt Grier the 600 Dollars agreeably to the Order of Congress, which you will please to direct the Paymaster to deduct on Settlement. 3 The shameful Inactivity of our Fleet for some Time past, the fre quent Neglect or Disobedience of Orders in Commodore Hopkins, the numberless Complaints exhibited to the Marine Committee agt. him, and also against Captains Saltonstal and Whipple, have induced the Congress, in Consequence of a Representation from the Marine Committee, to order them to repair immediately to this City to answer for their Conduct. I have accordingly wrote them to set out on the Receipt of my Letters, and to repair here by Land as fast as possible. I hope soon to have our Ships on a more respectable Footing. No Efforts of mine shall be wanting to accomplish so desireable an Event. I have sent the Resolves to the Convention of New York, which relate to them. The Prohibition on salted Beef and Pork, I have given Orders to be printed in all the Papers to the Eastward. The Resolves respecting the Indians, I must ask the Favour of you to forward to Genl. Schuyler, with such Directions as you shall judge necessary. I am to inform you that the Congress have appointed Ebenezer Hancock Esqr. Deputy Paymaster General for the Eastern Depart ment. A Carriage with one Hundred and fifty Thousand Dollars for the Pay of the Troops in that Department, will set out tomorrow. June 16th. A Waggon with about twenty two Thousand Dollars in Silver, and a Quantity of Continental Money, will set out tomor row Morning for Canada. I have given Directions to call on you at New York, and must request you will order a Guard to proceed with it as fast as possible, the Rest of the Way. I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Sevt. John Hancock, Presidt [P.S.] I Request the favr. you will please to give the necessary or ders to the Commanding officer in the Eastern Departmt. & to my Brother respecting the Payment of the Troops. RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and postscript by Hancock. 1 These resolves, which were passed by Congress June 12, 13, and 14, dealt with rifle regiments, the creation of the Board of War, the investigation of Commodore
