June 15, 1776 219 Hopkins, nonintercourse with the British, restraints on the exportation of beef and pork, and Canadian military operations. See JCC, 5:432, 434-35, 441^12. ’See JCC, 5:432. 3 See JCC, 5:438. William Whipple to John Langdon Dear Sir, Philadelphia 14th June 1776 This accompanies the 10,000 dollars for the naval service men tioned in a former letter; I have put it in a box with some other money directed to Col Weare and wish it safe to hand; 1 am sorry it was not in my power to send it sooner but hope the service will not suffer. We have no news here, except from Canada which I suppose has reached you ere now. The Commissioners are returned from that country; it is expected that Genl Thomas is dead before this. If so the command devolves on Sullivan, but there will be another Gen eral Officer sent there—believe Gates will be the man. 2 In haste, Yours, Wm Whipple Tr (DLC). 1 See Josiah Bartlett to Meshech Weare, this date. 2 On June 17 Congress directed Washington to send Gates “to take command of the forces” in Canada. JCC, 5:448. John Adams to Peter Boylston Adams My dear Brother Philadelphia June 15. 1776 I have an Account of the Politicks of the Town of Braintree; but it is an imperfect one. I wish you would write me, a clear, and dis tinct one. . . J I am told there was a Tie, between your Hon. Briga dier General and You, and that, in order to get a Decision in his Favour he was obliged to declare that he would leave the Board for the Sake of serving the Town. 2 I should be glad to learn a little of Motives and Politicks upon this Occasion. How is it? You leave me in the dark: you dont tell me whether I have the Honour to be a select Man, or not, or who are select Men, nor any Thing about Town Affairs. . . . Do you think that, because I am half a thousand miles off, I never think about you and that I dont want to know this, and that and the other? I do, indeed. You may at any Time send a Letter to the Post Office in Boston, it will be brought to me free of Expence, to you, or me. ... I am greatly at a Loss to account for the Conduct of your Hon. Councillor and
