222 June 15, 1776 RC (NjR: Elsie O. and Philip D. Sang deposit, 1972). Recipient identified from James Warren’s July 7, 1776, letter to Gerry in Gerry Papers, DLC. 1 Gerry’s concern was that proposed remedies might do more harm than good, as in the case alluded to in the Aeneid where the patient worsened under the doctor’s care. Virgil, Aeneid, 12.46. •On June 24 Congress appointed a committee “to enquire into the cause of the miscarriages in Canada." JCC, 5:474. 3 The Continental Loan Office was not approved by Congress until October 3, 1776. Each state was authorized to appoint the commissioner for the state’s loan office. JCC, 5:845-46, 4 Adams. Robert R. Livingston to John R. Livingston Dear John Philadelphia 15th June 1776. Mr. Wisener will bring you a letter from the chairman of the secret Committee of Congress 1 remanding 20 tons of salt petre which was directed to be sent to Mr. Wiseners Mill & which by some mistake is gone to yours. I am sorrey for this disappointment but hope you will make no difficulty in complying. Mr. Morris prom isses me that he will when you inform him that your stock is nearly worked up endeavour to procure you an additional supply tho in the meanwhile more will probably arrive at New York. I wish you would converse very freely with Mr. Wisener on the subject of re fining your salt petre 8c the manufacture of powder since he con fessedly understands it well, 2 &: Mr. Eves’s powder is in very bad repute. 3 [He will tell?] you of the person at New York that will [cast] brasses for you at 8s apiece. I hope to be home in 20 days so that I shall not think it necessary to enlarge. My health is much mended tho I begin to find that the warm wheather & a close atten tion to business will be no advantage to [me], I shall therefore follow your advise & take a journey to the manor &: back again. I am much of Dr. Lathams opinion with respect to inoculation. If I can think of it when the house is not too much engaged I will try & get something done in that matter. I know you are entitled to a longer letter but you can not conceive how reluctently one takes up the pen after the fatigue of body & mind which a whole days confine ment to the Congress Chamber occasions. This must plead my ex cuse. Give my love to all the family 8c believe me to be, Your Aff. Brother, R R Livingston RC (DLC). 1 Not found. 2 See Henry Wisner to Benjamin Towne, December 21, 1775. ’On June 7 Livingston, Robert Treat Paine, and Henry Wisner were ap pointed as a committee to investigate a “complaint . . . made with respect to the powder manufactured at Mr. O[swell] Eve’s mill.” No report about Eve’s
