June 15, 1776 223 powder mill at Frankford, Pa., has been found. However, on August 28 and September 2 Congress did pass resolutions governing the inspection of domestic and imported gunpowder. The August 28 resolutions, which dealt only with gunpowder manufactured in America, were also printed in broadside form. See JCC, 5:425, 440, 634, 713-14, 729, 6:1125. See also David L. Salay, “The Produc tion of Gunpowder in Pennsylvania during the American Revolution,” PMHB 99 (October 1975): 422-42. Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentn. Phila. June 15. 1776. Yours of the 10th Inst, was delivered to Us yesterday. It has hap pened very well that you have called a Convention on the 20th tho for the purpose of complying with the resolve of Congress We think your own powers are fully adequate. 1 It never was intended that any part of the militia was compellable to march out of the Provinces; nor do We know of any Power in ours, even tho the Convention was sitting to order the Militia upon Service out of the Province. It was intended that the flying Camp should be formed by voluntary Inlistments of the Militia and it was supposed that the People of the respective Provinces would readily and voluntarily march to the head Quarters of this flying Camp, which was ordered principally to defend the Middle Colonies. It will be necessary however to appoint officers, and give Directions to the body of militia when raised and this may be done by your Council or the Convention. We wrote you a few days ago requesting a Call of the Convention to deliberate upon Matters of the last Importance, and We are glad that an earlier Meeting than we expected will afford an Opportunity to our Constituents to communicate to us the Sense of the Province upon the very interest ing subjects mentioned in our Letter. The Session will be a very important one and We wish to attend, tho we know not whether it will be agreable to our Constituents to leave the Province unrep resented in Congress, it being a Matter of much Consequence to keep up the representation at this and all other times. We shall wait to hear from You and them upon this head, indeed we can’t quit the Congress without Leave which will not be given here unless our Attendance in Convention is desired. 2 Mr. Tilghman left us yester day, Mr Paca is here. We have nothing new since we last had the Honour of Addressing You. The Continental Proof of Cannon is two thirds of the Weight of the Ball, of Powder and two Balls, tho this is said to be less powder than is used for the purpose in Eng land. We are Gent., with much Respect, Yr most obt Sevts, T. Stone J. Rogers
