224 June 15, 1776 [P.S.] We have sent by the Stage 4 Reams paper, a Box Instruments, 8c a Gun Carriage. RC (MdAA). Written by Stone and signed by Stone and Rogers. 'See Md. Archives, 11:474-75; and Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety, June 11, 1776. ’The Maryland Convention responded to this explanation by resolving on June 21 that the delegates “move Congress for permission to attend here, but that they do not leave the Congress without such permission, and with out first having obtained an order that the consideration of the questions of Indepen dence, foreign alliance, and a further Confederation of the Colonies, shall be postponed until Deputies from this Province can attend Congress.” Am. Ar chives, 4th ser. 6:1485. Nevertheless, only delegates Samuel Chase, Robert Goldsborough, Thomas Johnson, and Matthew Tilghman, all of whom were already in Maryland, attended the convention. Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant to John Adams Dear Sir Burl[ingto]n 15 June 1776. Jacta est Aiea. We are passing the Rubicon & our Delegates in Congress on the first of July will vote plump. 1 The Bearer is a staunch Whigg & will answer any Questions You may need to ask. We have been very busy here 8c have stole a Minute from Business to write this. In haste, Yours, Jona D Sergeant RC (MHi). 1 Sergeant’s use of Caesar’s exclamation upon crossing the Rubicon was ap parently in response to the New Jersey Provincial Congress’ June 14 resolution denouncing Gov. William Franklin’s call, “in the name of the King of Great Britain,” for a meeting of the provincial assembly on June 20. Sergeant, who was attending the provincial congress in Burlington, evidently interpreted this resolution as a strong indication of that body’s willingness to support a declara tion of independence, but not until June 22 did it actually authorize the New Jersey delegates in Congress to vote for independence. See Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1620-22, 1628-29. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear Philidelpa 15 June 1776 I Wrote you the lit by Capt Sheldon who I expected would have gone out of Town before now, but he has been detained by Reason of the Stage Boat’s going off sooner than was expected. I therefore improve the oppertunity of Writing by the Post. The few Articles which you mentioned to Me I have not yet procured, perhaps I shall do it before Capt. Sheldon goes away. Linnens of the ordinary kind are 12/ per yard, the better sort 15/ and 20/. Capt. Sheldon prom-
