226 June 15, 1776 ised me to get a piece for you last Winter at N York but it seems he has failed of doing it. Every Thing here is sold at an extraordinary Price. Nothing more so than Linnens and indeed scarcly any could be had for several Months past. A few Dutch Linnens are lately bro’t in and sold at 12/ per yard, which nothing but necessity could induce any one to purchase. Nothing Very particular has Occured since my last. We have not heard of any late Arrivals of Troops. Those lying at Cape Fear N Carolina it is said are sickly, and have atcheived nothing of con sequence. Col Allyn is there on Board of Parkers Fleet with 31 Men of his. 1 One Peter Noble of Norfolk a Soldier taken with Allyn is now in this City. He swam from the Fleet the 3d. May last. We seem at present to be in the Midst of a great Revolution, which will probably be Attended with most important consequences. Every Thing is leading to the lasting Independancy of these Colonies. I hope to Return by the Time I mentioned in my former Letters. By the Blessing of God I have injoyed more Health than I had Reason to expect since I have been here, considering the confined Life which I am oblidged to lead. I Wrote you the It. inst which I hope you have reed. My Love to my Children and My Freinds. And be assured that I am with the sincerest Affection yours, Oliver Wolcott RC (CtHi). 1 Ethan Allen was a prisoner on board H.M.S. Mercury. See Clark, Naval Documents, 5:175-76, 430, 673-75. John Adams to Abigail Adams June 16. 1776 Yesterday was to me a lucky Day, as it brought me two Letters from you, one dated May 27 and the other June 3d. Dont be concerned, about me, if it happens now and then that you dont hear from me, for some Weeks together. If any Thing should injure my Health materially, you will soon hear of it. But I thank God I am in much better Health than I expected to be. But this cannot last long, under the Load that I carry. When it becomes too great for my Strength I shall ask leave to lay it down and come home. But I will hold it out a good while yet, if I can. I am willing to take the Woodland Sister mentions, and the Watch and the sword. As to the Lighter, it cost more than five hundred Dollars in hard Cash. I wish our Uncle 1 had as much Ambition, as he has Virtue and Ability. A Deficiency of Ambition is as criminal and injurious as an Excess of it. Tell him I say so. How shall We contrive to make so wise and good a Man ambitious? Is it not a sin to be so modest. Ask
