230 June 16, 1776 order for what Provisions you may want to be taken from the Com missary’s Store. Your several favrs. to 6th June I have Rec’d, the last Inclosing my Commission as Major General, I beg you will make my Acknowl edgments to the Gentlemen for the honour they have done me, & Assure them I will Endeavour to answer their Expectations. In my last I Sent you a List of the Captains with the Names of the Ships as far as we had then proceeded, since which the following Appointments have been made, 2 Vizt. Israel Turner—1st Lieutt. "J For the Ship Hancock Com- Joseph Doble—2d do. ► manded by Capt. Manly. Mark Desmitt—3d do. Hector McNeil Captain "I For the Ship Boston. John Brown 1st. Lieut J Thomas Grenell to the Command of the Frigate Montgomery at N York. You will please to Send me a Rect. for the Money. Do Send me the Names of the other Lieuts. McNeil & Brown are both here & will proceed down to you in a day or two. Dr. Sir, I must beg of you in your own way to impress the Assembly with the importance of Answering Letters from Congress, we are in the Dark whether matters are Carried into Execution, pray let us hear constantly. If you can propose anything that I can serve young Mr. Avery in, I will with much pleasure endeavour to answer his & your wish. 3 I am exceedingly hurried. Remember me to all Friends. I am very truly, Dr. Sir, Your faithfull friend & Sevt, John Hancock [P.S.] I have inclos’d in my Letter to the Assembly a Resolve, which I beg may be inserted in all the News papers immediately. One Frederick Beck who guards the money, will have some de mand, either you pay or 1.1 kept him here a few days. We have wrote to the assembly to order us some money, be so good as to attend to it, & let us have some soon. Mr Gill I find prints a News paper, please to ask him to Enter me for a paper 8c to Send it [fo] me regularly here every week. RC (MHi). 1 See Josiah Bartlett to Meshech Weare, June 14, 1776. 2 See JCC, 5:423, 444. a On June 4 the Massachusetts General Court had appointed a "standing Committee of Correspondence” to communicate regularly with the Massachusetts delegates. Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:267. For a lengthy extract from Cushing’s June 24 reply to Hancock’s letter, see Clark, Naval Documents, 5:706.
