June 17, 1776 251 MS (Nh). In the hand of Josiah Bartlett. MS (PHi). In the hand of John Dickinson. 1 Pursuant to Richard Henry Lee’s motion of June 7 “that a plan of confedera tion be prepared and transmitted to the respective Colonies for their consideration and approbation,” Congress resolved on June 11 to appoint a committee to draft such a plan and selected one delegate from each colony for this purpose the following day. (Since New Jersey was then unrepresented, however, the 13th member of the committee was not actually appointed until Francis Hopkinson arrived on June 28.) The members undoubtedly set to work almost at once on their assigned task, but very little evidence survives to reconstruct the story of how the Articles took form. Only committee members Josiah Bartlett, John Dickin son, and Edward Rutledge have left contemporary testimony pertaining to the committee’s work, and their references to the subject are confined to a few points. Bartlett, for example, reported on June 17 that “The affair of voting, whether by Colonies as at present, or otherwise, is not decided, and causes some warm dis putes”; and on July 1 he observed that after working on the plan “for about a fortnight at all oppertunities,” including all day Saturday, June 29, "this Day after Congress we are to meet again when I Believe it will be fitted to lay before Congress.” Rutledge, in a letter of June 29, explained that he had “been much engaged lately upon a plan of a Confederation which Dickenson has drawn,” denouncing Dickinson for “the Vice of Refining too much” and for “the Idea of destroying all Provincial Distinctions and making every thing of the most minute kind bend to what they call the good of the whole.” And Dickinson, in a July 1 speech before Congress opposing independence, mentioned the committee in a passage arguing that the step was unwise because no form of government had been agreed upon that would provide stability once independence was declared: “The Committee on Confederation dispute almost every Article—some of Us totally despair of any reasonable Terms of Confederation.” See Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon, June 17, and to Nathaniel Folsom, July 1; Edward Rutledge to John Jay, June 29; and John Dickinson’s Notes for a Speech in Congress, July 1, 1776. Of the various papers produced by the committee in the course of their delibera tions between June 12 and July 1, little more survives than the two documents printed here and the committee’s draft in Dickinson’s hand given to Secretary Thomson and reported to Congress on July 12. A few notes in Bartlett’s hand pertaining to representation have been printed above under the date June 12, and two pages of Dickinson’s notes incorporating revisions in his draft printed here are discussed in note 16 below. From the two documents analyzed here, however, much of significance can be learned of the evolution of the Articles through committee. Dickinson obviously played the dominant role in creating the Articles, for his draft is heavily inter lined and contains numerous deletions and marginalia. Photographs of pages one and three of the document can be examined in A Rising People, the Founding of the United States, 1765-1789 (Philadelphia: American Philosophical Society, 1976), p. 234. It also appears that this document was Dickinson’s second draft, and it was probably penned about the time Bartlett remarked to Langdon on June 17 that the committee had been disputing on “the affair of voting.” As originally drafted, it included no article on voting; the numerous additions and deletions contained in it were obviously made over a period of several days. Dickinson’s 18th article— “Each Colony shall have one Vote in Congress”—appears in the margin of the document; blanks left in the draft initially were undoubtedly filled in at a later date; and the last two paragraphs of the 19th article were certainly added later in direct response to a “Quaere” Dickinson wrote but subsequently lined out in the margin. In sum, it seems highly likely that this document was the basic draft Dickinson employed in committee from about June 17 to July 1, and from which he copied the committee draft reported to Congress. Although the latter was not
