252 June 17, 1776 submitted to Congress until July 12, it seems unlikely that much time was devoted to it after the first. At that time the independence debate preempted the attention of Congress, and immediately thereafter the call for the Pennsylvania militia to meet the British military threat to New York and New Jersey dominated Dickin son’s activities. It is not known when he gave the committee draft to Thomson, but he probably did not attend Congress after July 4, and he was already at Elizabethtown, N.J., at the head of his battalion, when it was reported and read in Congress. There is no evidence to indicate that Bartlett’s manuscript is anything more than a clean copy of one of Dickinson’s drafts. It is strikingly similar to the draft printed here, as Dickinson originally penned it and before making additions or deletions. The absence of both the fourth and thirteenth of Dickinson’s articles suggests that Bartlett copied it from an earlier draft, probably at about the same time Dickinson made the draft printed here. The double column format has been adopted here to facilitate examination of the alterations made in Dickinson’s draft during the committee’s deliberations. The document is also heavily annotated, and every attempt has been made to identify deletions made in committee through the conventional use of angle brackets and italic type. Deletions made in the ordinary course of composition have been ignored, except in a few cases in which the deleted words are revealing of Dickinson’s thought. Dickinson did not number his articles, but numerals have been supplied in brackets to minimize confusion. In the Bartlett draft, angle brackets and regular brackets have been employed unconventionally to facilitate identification of variations between the manuscript and the committee draft re ported to Congress on July 12. Thus, words appearing in Bartlett’s manuscript but omitted from the committee draft are placed in angle brackets, and words substituted in or added to the latter appear in this text in regular brackets, with both in roman rather than italic type. For further discussion of some of the textual variations between these two documents, see Elwin L. Page, “Josiah Bart lett and the Federation,” Historical New Hampshire (October 1947), pp. 1-6. The committee draft is in PCC, item 47, fols. 9-20, and JCC, 5:546-54. Analyses of the Articles undertaken heretofore have of necessity focused on the evolution of the committee’s plan through Congress after July 12 and on the struggle for ratification. Although only briefly concerned with the drafting of the Articles, the most thorough treatment of the committee’s work is still Merrill Jensen, The Articles of Confederation, an Interpretation of the Social-Constitutional History of the American Revolution, 1114-1181 (Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 1940), chaps. 4 and 5. See especially pp. 130-39 for Jensen’s analysis of the apportionment of powers and duties between the states and Congress that contains useful insights into the most difficult problem raised by the issue Of confederation. It is apparent from the two documents printed here (see articles 19 and 20 of Dickinson’s draft) that the allocation of powers was the most troublesome and time-consuming subject debated in the committee, and it was undoubtedly never resolved to the members’ satisfaction before the pressure of events required sub mission of a draft plan of confederation to Congress. Finally, there can be no doubt that the members of the committee began their work with a copy of Benjamin Franklin’s proposed Articles of Confederation be fore them, for which see JCC, 2:195-99. Several passages from Franklin’s plan can be found verbatim in the Bartlett and Dickinson drafts, and many others survive with only slight variations. Indeed, only the 4th, 7th, 8th, and 12th of Franklin’s 13 articles are not conspicuously incorporated into the committee’s work. See also Benjamin Franklin’s Proposed Articles of Confederation, July 21, 1775. 2 At this point in the margin Dickinson penned the following "Quaere.” "The Power of Congress interf[erin]g in any Change of the Const[ituti]on? Also the Pro priety of garranteeing the respective Constitutions & Frames of Government.”
