June 17, 1776 253 “In the margin: “All this Article rejected.” This rejected article provides striking evidence of the radical nature of Dickinson’s efforts to vest substantial authority in Congress and impose explicit restrictions upon the states. Since the rights of persons were generally believed to be a local matter unrelated to the problem of constructing a confederation between independent states, it is not surprising that the article was rejected out of hand. No suggestion that this issue was germane to the work of the committee has been found in the writing of any other delegate, but Dickinson’s continued concern for religious liberty can also be seen in the first query he appended to the committee’s draft of the Articles reported to Con gress: “Should not the first Article provide for a Toleration and agt. Establish ments hereafter to be made?” See JCC, 5:547n.l. 4 In the margin Dickinson penned two paragraphs whose relationship to this article and to one another is not clear. Only the second—which has been printed in italic type in angle brackets—has been crossed out, but both were obviously super seded by the 11th article printed here. The first reads as follows. “When Troops are to be raised in any of the Colonies for the Common Defence, the Resolutions of the Union in General Congress for raising them, shall be executed by the Legislature of each Colony respectively where such Forces are to be raised, or by such persons as the said Legislatures shall authorize for that purpose, unless it be agreed by the Delegates of nine Colonies, that the Troops shall be raised immedi ately by. the Union, without the Aid of the said Legislatures; and even in that Case, the Officers proper (front below).” “One line left blank in both the Bartlett and Dickinson drafts. In the committee draft submitted to Congress, Dickinson also left a large blank space when he initially penned this article but inserted the following words at a later time, and probably with a different pen: “Inhabitants of every Age, Sex and Quality, except Indians paying Taxes.” See PCC, item 47, fol. 12; and JCC, 5:548. “Following this article Dickinson left a query in the margin: "The propriety of raising Troops in each Colony in due proportion to its share of Taxes, and the Number of Troops to be raised, and allowing Colonies to raise & pay Troops in Lieu of Taxes.” 7 In the committee draft this paragraph is followed by a 12th article which differs only slightly from the 13th article of the Dickinson draft. See JCC, 5:548^19. 8 In the margin: “Q. How far the Expence of any War is to be defrayed by the Union?” 8 The committee draft here includes a section restricting the issuance of letters of marque, part of which appears in Bartlett’s article 14. See JCC, 5:549. 10 In the margin: “Q. How far any Colony may interfere in Indian Affairs?” 11 In the committee draft, Dickinson wrote “Art. 14th” in the margin at this point instead of at "A perpetual Alliance,” the point at which the new article begins in both drafts printed here. The JCC text nevertheless actually follows the format of these earlier drafts, as Worthington C. Ford apparently decided to correct silently what he must have considered a slip of the pen by the author. Cf. PCC, item 47, fol. 13; and JCC, 5:549. 12 In the margin: “Q. How Representation in Congress to be regulated? How many shall make a Quorum, save in the [Executive?]. . . . “The Oath of every Delegate. What Points shall be determined by a Majority of the Colonies present, what by a Majority of all, or of two Thirds? “If any Delegate may be allowed to vote by Proxy given to one of his Colleagues, or a Delegate of another Colony—if he is sick or absent?" 18 From the appearance of the MS it is obvious that Dickinson added the re mainder of this sentence at a later date. This conclusion is also confirmed by Dickinson’s use here of the term “Council of State,” a term that was agreed upon relatively late in the committee’s deliberations to replace “Council of Safety.” After he originally wrote this article, Dickinson placed two queries in the margin
