254 June 17, 1776 which he subsequently lined out, both o£ which employed the latter term. “If not supplied by Council of Safety?’’ and "If each Colony shall support its own Dele gates while meeting as Members of the Council of Safety?’’ 11 The placement of this article in the margin of the MS indicates that the pro vision was agreed to after Dickinson had penned this draft and that he used this copy of the document to incorporate changes later agreed to in committee. “A reference to the 14th article of this draft. “Although this Dickinson draft consists of 12 MS pages, two additional pages are located with the document. These 13th and 14th pages are actually two sep arate work sheets used by Dickinson in the course of composition, and they contain approximately two-thirds of the remainder of this article, much of which appears in the margin of Dickinson’s draft. Apparently the document became too crowded to bear further interlineation, and he therefore resorted to additional sheets of paper in his efforts to improve the document. 17 Seven clauses follow at this point in the committee draft, many of which appear later in this article in Bartlett’s draft. See JCC, 5:551. The numerous varia tions in this article between Bartlett’s draft and the Dickinson and committee drafts indicate that the attempt to specify the powers of Congress gave the committee great difficulty and consumed much of their time in the later stages of their deliberations. “In the margin: "Q. To direct the Marches, Cruises & Operations of such Forces.’’ “ In the margin: "Q. An Oath to be admd. to every Offr. in the Land & naval Forces & to every Soldier & Mariner to obey Congress & not to violate the laws or Rights & Liberties of any Colony? "Q. The Power of Congress to erect Forts? establish Garrs, for the Genl. Wellfare & to call out the militia. "Q. The Power of laying Embargos? "Q. The Power of arresting, securing & trying persons in the service of the united Colonies?” 20 Dickinson inserted regular brackets around this clause, apparently sometime later during the committee’s deliberations. 21 In the committee draft this sentence concludes: "Forces—To agree upon the Number of Land Forces to be raised, and to make Requisitions from the Legis lature of each Colony, or the Persons therein authorized by the Legislature to execute such Requisitions, for the Quota of each Colony, which is to be in Pro portion to the Number of white Inhabitants in that Colony, which Requisitions shall be binding, and thereupon the Legislature of each Colony or the Persons authorized as aforesaid, shall appoint the Regimental Officers, raise the Men, and arm and equip them in a soldier-like Manner; and the Officers and Men so armed and equipped, shall march to the Place appointed, and within the Time agreed on by the United States assembled.” The committee draft also contains two addi tional paragraphs, on quotas for raising troops in the colonies and on “Weights and Measures,” before continuing with the subject of taxes. See JCC, 5:551. 22 In the margin: “Q. Powers of the Chamber of Accounts, Off. of Treasury, & Board of War and Admiralty. Need they be defined, as they are to act under the Congress & in their Recess under the Council of Safety? "Q. Commrs. for Indian Affairs? “Q. Need any of those be mentioned?” 23 In the margin: “Q. If Congress may be allowed to impose any Duties for the Regulation of Trade or raising a Revenue for the general Benefit, provided they are equal & common to all the Colonies?” 24 At this point Bartlett’s draft contains a “Quere” in parenthesis: “whether or not on the Indians trade &c.” 25 The remainder of this sentence appears at the conclusion of article 20 of the committee draft.
