260 June 17, 1776 New-Hampshire Troops who have ever before been high on the list of fame. In order to make you easey about the Manifesto as you call it, I just whisper you that a Committee are appointed to prepare a Declaration to be laid before the House on the 1st of July which no doubt will pass & I believe will meet with your approbation. You may expect it in abot a month from this time. I suppose its a matter of indifference to you whether Mr. McCleur is settled or not, as I understand you have a Chaplain of your own. I hope your Gostly Father will so prepare your for your journey, that there will be no necessity of your stopping at the half way house. I have no news to tell you; perhaps another week may produce some. Yours sincerely, Wm Whipple RC (MH). 1 For further information on the appointment of officers for the New Hampshire battalion, see Whipple to Meshech Weare, May 17, 1776. William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 17th June 1776 The money mentioned in a former letter is gone forward to Boston. Mr Hancock has desired Mr Cushing to send it to New Hampshire. It is in a box directed to Col Weare. 1 I am glad you intend for Providence and heartily wish you may succeed in getting the guns there; if not, I don’t know when you will have them but fear it will be a long time, for though two furnaces in this Province are employed making guns for the ships there are no more than two 12 pounders yet brought to town and but very few of the other sizes and if they were here I think there will be great difficulty in getting them to you. I sometime ago mentioned to the Chairman of the Secret Committee, what you propose respecting powder and am in no doubt, but you’ll be supplied in season with that article; in short I am not concerned about any thing but guns and men. The Committee decline giving orders for shipping men, while the pro spect of getting guns is at such a distance. I find there is no possibility of getting you appointed Agent while you have a seat in Congress and if you are not appointed I am apprehensive the present Acting Agent will be confirmed. 2 I have already told many of the members that you intended to resign your seat here. It’s Col Bartlett’s opinion, that you should come here; I don’t know but it would be right for you to come. I should be exceeding glad to be at home for a few months; if this plan is agreeable to you. I shall like to set out about the middle of July, but as there will be time enough for you to answer this before I shall set out shall let it rest entirely on your
