June 18, 1776 261 determination. If you do determine to resign shall have you ap pointed as soon as I know of your resignation. I must confess I am loath you should give up your seat, but if it’s your choice, I hope you’ll see that a proper person is appointed to supply your place. At all events it’s probable I shall set out some time in July and if I can get a companion shall take your carriage; in that case should be glad to know if you’ll have your trunk brought home. I mean to take your carriage unless you direct otherwise. You mention in some of your letters the appointment of two Agents; that I think would be unnecessary and improper, as one man could certainly do all the business. I hope your answer will be very explicit about your coming or resigning. This day fortnight I expect the grand question will be determined in Congress, that being the day assigned to receive the report of a Committee who are preparing the Declaration. There is a great change here since my arrival as there was in New Hampshire between the time that the powder was taken from the fort and the battle of Bunker Hill. New Jersey have called a new Convention who are now setting. They have forbid the meeting of the Assembly who were called by the Governor’s Proclamation and I hope my next will advise you of that govr’s being seized which I think ought to have been done many months ago. Affairs go on here bravely as you’ll see by the papers. I wrote some time ago that blank warrants would be sent to you, but it seems the Committee have changed their minds and now say the names must be sent here. I am, &c, Wm. Whipple Tr (DLC). ’See John Hancock to Thomas Cushing, June 16, 1776. “Joshua Wentworth had been appointed acting prize agent in New Hampshire by General Washington in 1775. See Stephen Moylan to Washington, October 13, 1775, in Clark, Naval Documents, 2:434; and Elbridge Gerry to John Wendell, June 11, 1776, note 3. John Adams to Horatio Gates My dear General Philadelphia June 18. 1776 We have ordered you to the Post of Honour, and made you Dictator in Canada for Six Months, or at least untill the first of October. 1 We dont choose to trust you Generals, with too much Power, for too long Time. I took my Pen, at this Time, to mention to you the Name of a young Gentleman, and to recommend him to your Notice and Favour. His Name is Rice. 2 This gentleman is the Son of a worthy Clergyman. He was educated at Harvard Coiledge, where he was an
