262 June 18, 1776 officer of the Military Company, and distinguished himself as a soldier in the manual Exercises and Maneuveres. After he came out of Colledge he put himself under my Care as a Student of the Law. While he was in my office he was very usefull in the Neighbourhood in training the Companies of Militia there. He is a modest, sensible, and well read young Man, and a very virtuous and worthy one. In my Absence from home, after the Battle of Lexington, he applied for a Commission in the Army, and obtained a Place, in my opinion vastly below his real Merit; I mean that of Adjutant in General Heaths, now Coll Greatons Regiment. In this Capacity, he has continued, from his first Engagement which was immediately after the Battle of Lexington, untill this Time, and is now in Canada with his Regiment, and I have been informed by a Variety of officers, that he has behaved remarkably well. As you are going to Canada, with full Powers, I must beg the Favour of you to think of this young gentleman, inquire into his Character and Conduct, and if you can, consistently with the Public Service, advance him to Some Place more Adequate to his Abilities and Merits, and services, I should take it as a Favour. I pray God to prosper you in Canada, and grant you a plentifull Crop of Laurells, and am your affectionate humble Servant, John Adams RC (NHi). 1 See JCC, 5:448; and John Hancock to George Washington, this date. 2 Nathan Rice (1754-1834). Elbridge Gerry to Elisha Porter Dear sir, 1 Philadelphia June 18th 1776 I reed, your Favour of the 31st May per Mr Chase but have heard nothing of the other Letter which is mentioned therein. I am sorry to find the affairs of Canada in such a situation, but they will be soon assisted if in the Power of Congress to effect it. General Gates is ordered to the Command in Canada, 6000 Militia from Connecticut & Massachusetts 8c New Hampshire are soon to join Him, 21000 Dollars in Specie & part of 500,000 in Bills were sent from this City the 16th for Albany, the Commissary General is to undertake the supplying the Army, a Committee is appointed to provide Medicine & Cloathing, & a strict Scrutiny will be made into the Causes of the Miscarriages in that Department. I am greived at the Loss of General Thomas & think he was a brave officer 8c could wish to have reed a Better Account of another officer which You mention. The persons which You mention at our old Lodgings were well a
