264 June 18, 1776 him to throw in the necessary Supplies & continuing them. 2 Thirty Dollars per Month is also added to his Salary. The president promised to send me your Letter after he had perused it, but thro the Hurry of Business I suppose has omitted it. 3 Nothing new here unless an intercepted Letter sent to Congress by the Convention of Virginia, whereby it appears that the Design of the Enemy is to land some Regulars at Florida & join the Cherokees &c with Which they intend to attack the western Frontiers of Virginia, & the other southern Colonies; but I hope their Vile Designs will be frustrated. 4 I hope the Difficulties in the Quarter Master’s Office will cease, & that the Assistant which You mention will not be so regardless of the public Good as from a small Consideration to resign his office. My best Regards to Generals Gates & Mifflin & believe me to be with Esteem sir your assured Friend & huml sert. Elbridge Gerry P.S. The Lower Counties it is said have given similar Instructions to the Delegates with Pennsylvania, &: this Day the Conference of Committees of this Colony meets; every County having sent Mem bers. 5 The middle Colonies will I think soon be vigourous. RC (CtHi). ’See John Hancock to Philip Schuyler, June 17, 1776. “See JCC, 5:451. 8 Undoubtedly Trumbull's June 17 letter to John Hancock, which was read in Congress on June 18 and is in the Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:938-39. JCC, 5:459-60. ‘A May 19 letter of Henry Stuart, British deputy superintendent of Indian af fairs for the southern department, which had been intercepted and first sent to Georgia Gov. Archibald Bullock. Stuart, in an attempt to buoy the spirits of Caro lina and Virginia frontier inhabitants, had urged that they swear loyalty to the king and be prepared to join a combined British-Indian army which would soon march from West Florida to attack North Carolina and Virginia. For Stuart’s letter and related documents, see Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1228-30. 6 The proceedings of the conference of Pennsylvania committees of safety, June 18-25, 1776, are in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:951-67. Robert Treat Paine had laconically reported this event in his diary: “Wrote to Dr. Cobb & Wife & Col Palmer. Committee of Conference sat Philada.” Paine’s Diary, June 18, 1776, MHi. John Hancock to Certain Colonies Gentlemen, Philada. June 18th. 1776. As it is impossible fully to ascertain the Strength of our Enemies, or the Force destined for the Attack of New York, it is incumbent on us to be prepared to defend ourselves agt. any Number of Troops that may be ordered agt. that Place. This, it is apparent, can never be effectually done, but by adopting the enclosed Resolve; wherein it is recommended by Congress to your Colony, to empower the
