June 19, 1776 267 I beg you will think of the Eastern Departmt. with Respect to General officers, when your very important Concerns will admit. RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and last paragraph of post script by Hancock. 1 See the extensive series of resolutions passed by Congress on June 17 concerning reinforcements for the northern army, military operations in Canada, and the disposition of prize cargoes, in JCC, 5:447-54. 2 See JCC, 5:452; and Hancock to Washington, June 11, 1776. 3 Muster-Master General Stephen Moylan having been appointed quartermaster general by Congress on June 5, his deputy Gunning Bedford was chosen to succeed him on June 18. JCC, 5:419, 460. Hancock’s letter of this date to Bedford, inform ing him of his promotion and ordering him to “immediately Repair to Head Quarters at New York,” is in PCC, item 12A, and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:949. Another Hancock letter of this date, written to Pennsylvania commissary James Mease and directing him immediately to “purchase & forward to Stephen Moylan Esqr Quarter Master General in New York as much Cloth suitable for Tents as you can procure,” is in PCC, item 12A, and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:949. See also JCC, 5:453. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull Dear sir, Philadelphia 19th June 1776 Since my last of the 17th Instant 1 I reed yours of the same Date 8c find that notwithstanding upwards of 27000 Men with their Arms, two Major Generals 8c all the Brigadiers are marched or ordered from the N England Colonies, the Request of Massachusetts for a single Brigadier to their Liking is not complied with. This I consider as a Hardship 8c shall in future pay a more particular Regard to the eastern Department 8c Boston (to which the Enemy will think themselves invited) than has heretofore taken place. General Sullivans letter 2 relative to Canada looks more favourable than those before received, but it is very surprising that amongst all the Men of Sense sent into that Country there cannot be found two that agree in their Relations of Facts. Surely some strange Demon representing the Genius of the British Ministry has banished Truth from the Canadian Climes, but I doubt not that she will again return with her good Friend General Gates 8c give Us future Proofs of her being reinstated in that Quarter. You have now the Direction of the Commissary’s Department in Canada 8c I hope things will be reduced to order in good Time. With Respect to your order for Flower, It will undoubtedly be complied with. 3 The Office of Muster Master General is not yet filled, 4 Your Brother shall be remembered. This Day a Recommendation has passed Congress to all the assemblies 8c Conventions to provide a suit of Cloaths of which the Waist Coat 8c Breeches to be Buckskin, a Blanket, Hatt, 2 pair
