June 19, 1776 269 I am to request that you will deliver to the Agent of the Council of Safety of Pennsylvania the Cannon 8c Trucks ordered by Congress to be taken from thence—and also to inform you that the Congress expect this Resolution will be immediately complied with. 4 I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Svt. J. H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). ’See JCC, 5:447-48. “See Trumbull’s letter to Hancock of June 10 in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:797; and Hancock to the Connecticut and New Hampshire Assemblies, May 16, 1776, note 2. ’See JCC, 4:412; and Trumbull’s letter cited above. ‘See JCC, 5:445^6; and Hancock to Esek Hopkins, May 7, 1776, note 2. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia June 19th. 1776. Since my Letter on the 18th Inst. I have Nothing further in Charge from Congress that particularly relates to yourself, or the Army immediately under your Command. I have wrote to the Conventions of the Jerseys and New York, and to the Assembly of Connecticut on the Subject of the Resolve Inclos’d in my last, and have pressed them to a Compliance with the Request therein contained. Mr. Bedford who is appointed Muster Master General, I have directed to repair to Head Quarters immediately, and have delivered him his Commission. You will please to appoint a Deputy Muster Master General for the Department of Canada. I do myself the Honour of writing to Govr. Trumbull by this Conveyance, and transmitting a Copy of sundry Resolves respecting his Government. I also forward him blank Commissions. Your several Favours to the 17th Inst, have been duely received, and are at this Time before Congress. As soon as I have it in my Power, I shall, with particular Pleasure, transmit the Result. The Carpenters mentioned in the Resolve of the 17th I shall send to Genl. Schuyler directly from this City. I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt [P.S.] The Inclos’d Resolves I Transmitt, to which I beg Leave to Refer you. 1 I have been so Engag’d that I have not Oppory. to Confer with the other Delegates of Massachusetts on the Subject of your Letter, but beg leave to Refer the matter to you, fully Convinc’d that you will Send such officers as will effectually Execute your 8c our wish. 2 I will do my self the honour to address you by next Post.
