June 20, 1776 275 Publickly and in the most solemn manner. Mr. Willson I am inform’d shewd this Letter to the Congress and desired they would recollect what [h]is behavior had been during the Debate on Independency and woud testifie the same as none but them could clear his Character. This method was debated, found unparliamentary and droped, but renewed afterwards, and a Certificate was presented which ex presses according to what Mr. Samuel Adams told me as near as I can recollect what follows, Vizt. that on the first day of the Debate Mr. Willson had declared that in his private Character he thought that Independency ought to take place, and that he beleived that many of the Pennsylvania Delegates were of the same opinion, but that in his Public Character he was bound by the Instructions of the Assembly the only representatives of the People of this Province to oppose it. This was on a Saturday, on which very day the Assembly then sitting recinded their Instructions and before the Congress broke up Mr. Willson was told of it, but he answerd that he had not yet received any information of it from the house, and the Debate was ajourned untill the Monday following when Mr. Will- son Confest that he had given his private oppinion in favour of Independency and that tho he was convinced that the majority of his Constituents were of the same opinion yet he desired the determination of that matter might be postponed untill he could procure the further opinion of his Constituents in a fuller manner either By public meetings or otherwise. This Certificate some sign’d and others refused. Mr. Sami. Adams told him that this Certificate if published would rather hurt his Character with the People than be in his favour for that tho he had at first de clared his private opinion to be for indepen[den]cy he availed himself of the instructions of Assembly to oppose it and afterwards when the Assembly had repeald their Instructions and left him to the free exercise of his Will he had only changed his ground and desired the decision might be postponed to a further time. Which behavior cannot certainly be regarded as in favour of Independency. All which will certainly appear in a full and clear light if considered by an un prejudiced mind. And will be proved if necessary. Mr. Adams told me that this Certificate could be no prejudice to you and more of Disservice to Mr. Willson than otherwise and that he had told him so. "I have the pleasure to inform you that yesterday the Committy of Conference voted Independency to take place in this Province and are to send their resolve this day to the Congress desiring it may take place thro the united Colonies. This in my opinion is a Convincing proof! that they could no longer trust that impor tant matter to Mr. Willson and the other Pennsylvania Delegates particularly as they have Determined that it shall be carried to Congress by a Committy of their own Members and not by any [of t]he Delegates of this Province. . . . Shew my Letter if you will but dont let anyone take Coppies for they should Change, Add or diminish.” For an explicit denunciation of Whitehill’s letter, see James Wilson to John Montgomery, July 9, 1776. For additional information on Whitehill’s public career, which found him repeatedly in opposition to Wilson, especially over ratification of the Constitution in 1787-88, and culminated in the United States Congress, 1805-13, see Bio. Dir. Cong.; Page Smith, James Wilson, Founding Father, 1742- 1798 (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1956), pp. 263, 270-72, 278, 303; and Merrill Jensen, ed., The Documentary History of the Ratification of the Constitution (Madison: State Historical Society of Wisconsin, 1976—), 2:733. “The debate of June 7 on Richard Henry Lee’s motion pertaining to inde pendence. “The Pennsylvania Assembly had already (on June 5) appointed a committee headed by John Dickinson to draft a new set of instructions for the Pennsylvania delegates in Congress. For a discussion of this move, and of Wilson’s response in Congress to Lee’s motion on independence, see David Hawke, In the Midst of a Revolution (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1961), pp. 160-61. Hawke’s discussion is based primarily upon the document printed in the present
