278 June 20, 1776 you can & write me by the Post. 2 I sincerely wish Sr. you may find satisfaction in yr Office. Honor & Victory if you are attacked. Yr freind & Sevt, R T Paine RC (MHi). ’See Paine to Henry Knox, May 31, 1776, note 1. ‘On June 17 Congress had ordered the Cannon Committee to acquire brass or iron fieldpieces. JCC, 5:453. Knox’s June 24 response is in Clark, Naval Documents, 5:710-12. John Adams to Zabdiel Adams My dear Sir Philadelphia June 21. 1776 Your Favour of the Ninth of this Month was delivered to me, 1 Yesterday by Mr. Whitney, whose Health I hope will be fully re stored by the Small Pox for which he was innoculated the day before. Your Letter, Sir, gave me great Pleasure and deserves my most hearty Thanks. I am fully with you in Sentiment, that altho the Authority of the Congress founded as it has been, in Reason, Honour, and the Love of Liberty, has been sufficient to govern the Colonies, in a tolerable Manner, for their Defence and Protection: yet that it is not prudent, to continue very long in the same Way. That a permanent Consti tution should be formed, and foreign Aid, obtained. In these Points and thus far the Colonies, and their Representatives the Congress are extremely well united. But concerning a Declaration of Inde pendency there is some Diversity of Sentiment. Two Arguments only, are urged with any Plausibility against such a Measure. One is that it will unite all the Inhabitants of G. Britain against Us. The other, that it will put us too much in the Power of foreign States. The first has little Weight in it, because the People of Great Britain, are already as much united against Us, as they ever are in any Thing, and the Probability is, that such a Declaration would excite still greater Divisions and Distractions among them. 2 The second has less Weight still, for foreign Powers already know that We are as obnoxious to the British Court as We can be. They know that Parliament have in effect declared Us independent, and that We have acted these thirteen Months, to all Intents and Pur poses as if We were so. The Reports of fifty five Thousand Men, coming against Us, are chiefly ministerial Gasconade. However We have reason to fear that they will send several very powerfull Armaments against Us, and therefore our most strenuous Exertions will be necessary, as well as our most fervent Prayers. America is yet in her Infancy, or at least but lately arrived to Man hood, and is inexperienced in the perplex-
