June 21, 1776 279 ing Misteries of Policy, as well as the dangerous Operations of War. I assure you, sir, that your Employment, in investigating the Moral Causes of our Miseries, and in pointing out the Remedies, is devoutly to be wished. There is no station more respectable; nor any so pleasant and agreable. Those who tread the public Stage, in Characters the most extensively conspicuous, meet with so many Embarrassments, Perplexities, and Disappointments, that they have often reason to wish for the peacefull Retreats of the Clergy. . . . 3 Who would not wish to exchange the angry Contentions of the Forum, for the peacefull Contemplations of the Closet. Where Con templations prune their ruffled Wings and the free Soul looks down to pitty Kings? Who would not Exchange the discordant Scenes of Envy, Pride, Vanity, Malice, Revenge, for the sweet Consolations of Philosophy, the serene Composure of the Passions, the divine En joyments of Christian Charity, and Benevolence? Statesmen my dear Sir, may plan and speculate for Liberty, but it is Religion and Morality alone, which can establish the Principles upon which Freedom can securely stand. . . . The only foundation of a free Constitution, is pure Virtue, and if this cannot be inspired into our People, in a greater Measure, than they have it now, They may change their Rulers, and the forms of Government, but they will not obtain a lasting Liberty. They will only exchange Tyrants and Tyrannies. You cannot therefore be more pleasantly, or usefully employed than in the Way of your Profession, pulling down the Strong Holds of Satan. This is not Cant, but the real sentiment of my Heart. Remember me with much respect, to your worthy fam ily, and to all Friends. LB (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:20-21. 1 Zabdiel Adams (1739-1801), Lunenburg, Mass., minister, was a cousin of John Adams. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 14:377-83. Zabdiel’s June 9 letter to John is in Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:6-8. 2 For a further exposition of some of the arguments put forth against inde pendence, see John Dickinson’s Notes for a Speech in Congress, June 8-10? 1776. 3 Suspension points in MS, here and below. Board of War to George Washington Sir War Office Philada. 21st June 1776 The Congress having thought proper to appoint us to the Board of War & Ordinance, we do ourselves the Honour to transmit you the foregoing Extracts from their Proceedings establishing a War Office for the more speedy & effectual Dispatch of military Busi ness. 1 You will perceive, on Perusal of the Extracts, that it will be necessary for you forthwith to furnish the Board with an exact State of the Army under your Command &: every thing relative
