June 21, 1776 281 mighty Force we are threatned with; which however I think it is not certain will ever arrive; & I see more certainly the Ruin of Britain if she persists in such expensive distant Expeditions, which will probably prove more disastrous to her than anciently her Wars in the Holy Land. I return Gen. Sulivan’s Letter enclos’d. 2 Am glad to find him in such Spirits, and that the Canadians are returning to their Re gard for us. I am just recovering from a severe Fit of the Gout, which has kept me from Congress & Company almost ever since you left us, 3 so that I know little of what has pass’d there, except that a Declaration of Independence is preparing. With the greatest Esteem & Respect, I am, Dr Sir, Your most obedt & most humbl Servt. B F FC (NN). 1 Probably a letter from Arthur Lee dated February 13, 1776. See Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon, May 21, 1776, note 2. See also Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:64-65. 2 Sullivan's letter to Washington of June 5-6, 1776, which Sullivan had requested be forwarded to Congress, and which Washington had enclosed in his letter to Hancock of June 16, is in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:921-23. It was read in Congress on June 18. See JCC, 5:459; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:142-43. 3 Washington had been in Philadelphia from May 23 to June 4, 1776, to discuss the defense of the colonies. Elbridge Gerry to John Wendell Dear sir Philadelphia 21st June 1776 Since my last of the 11th Instant your Favour of the 4th is come to Hand, & I fully agree in the Opinion You enjoy of the Lords protest & of their Intention in publishing the same. In this Way & by inserting in news Papers the Substance of their Debates, have the Opposition in both Houses pointed out to America the Line of Conduct proper for her to pursue since the Commencement of the present Contest by the stamp act, & by comparing these with Events We shall find that the Colonies have judiciously improved the salutary Hints. I wrote You my Sentiments with Respect to the Appointment of [the] Vendue Master since which I find the Business is loosely conducted & that the Continental Agent under the Direction of the marine Board is to make sd Appointmt. If Mr. Wendell 1 thinks himself authorized as an agent established by the Commander in chief previous to the Continental Regulations of the Admiralty, to make a temporary provission in that office untill Congress shall confirm him agent for the Colony or supersede him by a new Ap pointment, my Sentiments were that your Business or Intention of
