290 June 22, 1776 she shall order me, there I will go, without Dismay. I am, Dear Sir, with the greatest Esteem, your humble servant. LB (MHi). 1 This Saturday, June 22, Congress did not sit, pursuant to its passage on June 20 of the following resolve: "That in order to give time to the several committees, to prepare for the house the matters referred to them, it be a standing rule of Congress, that adjournments from the Friday evening, be always to Monday morn ing, unless on any particular occasion, the Congress shall order otherwise.” JCC, 5:468. Notwithstanding this effort to take more time from their routine daily deliberations, the delegates continued to meet on Saturdays more frequently than not during the ensuing months. E Greene's June 2 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi. “Adams was a member of the Board of War and Ordnance. JCC, 5:434-35, 438. John Adams to Benjamin Kent Sir Philadelphia June 22. 1776 Your Letters of April 24 and May 26 are before me 1 —both dated at Boston, a Circumstance which alone would have given Pleasure to a Man who has such an Attachment to that Town, and who has sufferd so much Anxiety for his Friends, in their Exile from it. We have not many of the fearfull, and still less of the Unbelieving among Us, how slowly soever, you may think We proceed. Is it not a Want of Faith, or a Predominance of Fear, which makes some of you so impatient for Declarations in Words of what is every day manifested in Deeds of the most determined Nature and unequivo cal Signification? That we are divorced, a Vinculo as well as from Bed and Board, is to me, very clear. The only Question is, concerning the proper Time for making an explicit Declaration in Words. Some People must have Time to look around them, before, behind, on the right hand, and on the left, then to think, and after all this to resolve. Others see at one intuitive Glance into the past and the future, and judge with Precision at once. But remember you cant make thir teen Clocks strike precisely alike, at the same second. I am for the most liberal Toleration of all Denominations of Religionists but I hope that Congress will never meddle with Re ligion, further than to Say their own Prayers, and to fast and give Thanks, once a Year. Let every Colony have its own Religion, without Molestation. The Congress ordered Church to the Massachusetts Council to be let out upon Bail. It was represented to them that his Health was in a dangerous Way and it was thought he would not now have it in his Power to do any Mischief. No Body knows what to do with him. There is no Law to try him upon, and no Court to try him. I am
