June 22, 1776 291 afraid he deserves more Punishment, than he will ever meet. 2 I am, your humble sevt. LB (MHi). 1 Benjamin Kent (1708-88), a Boston lawyer, was appointed attorney general for Suffolk County in 1776. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 8:220-30. Kent’s April 24 and May 26 letters to John Adams, in which he urged a declaration of independence and vociferously protested the release of Benjamin Church, are in the Adams Papers, MHi. 2 On May 14 Congress had ordered the release of Benjamin Church on £.1000 bail and directed that he be handed over to the Massachusetts Council. JCC, 4:350, 352. Church returned to Massachusetts in early June, but after narrowly es caping a lynch mob, he was returned to confinement until allowed to leave Massachusetts in January 1778. The ship in which he sailed disappeared without a trace. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 13:395-97. John Adams to Samuel H. Parsons Dear sir. Philadelphia June 22. 1776 Your obliging Favour of the third of June, 1 has been too long unanswered. I acknowledge the Difficulty of ascertaining the com parative Merit of officers, and the danger of advancing Friends, where there is no uncommon Merit. This danger cannot be avoided by any other Means, than making it an invariable Rule, to promote officers in succession. For if you make a King the Judge of uncom mon Merit, he will advance favourites, without Merit, under Colour or Pretence of Merit. If you make a Minister of State the Judge, he will naturally promote his Relations, Connections and Friends. If you place the Power of judging of extraordinary Merit, in an assembly, you dont mend the Matter much. For by all the Expe rience I have had, I find that assemblies have Favourites as well as Kings and Ministers. The Favourites of assemblies, or the leading Members, are not always the most worthy. I dont know whether they ever are. Those leading Members have Sons, Brothers and Cousins, Acquaintances, Friends, and Connections of one sort or other, near or remote: and I have ever found, those Leading Mem bers of assemblies, as much under the Influence of Nature, and her Passions and Prejudices, as Kings, and Ministers. The principal Advantage and Difference lies in this, that in an assembly, there are more Guards and Checks, upon the Infirmities of leading Mem bers, than there are upon Kings and Ministers. What then shall We say? Shall we leave it to the general and the Army? Is there not as much Favoritism, as much of Nature, Passion, Prejudice, and Partiality, in the Army, as in an assembly? As much in a General as a King or Minister? Upon the whole I believe it wisest to depart from the Line of
