292 June 22, 1776 Succession, as seldom as possible. But I cannot but think that the Power of departing from it at all, tho liable to abuses every where, yet safest in the Hands of an assembly. But in our American Army, as that is circumstanced, it is as difficult to Settle a Rule of Succession, as a Criterion of Merit. We have Troops in every Province, from Georgia to New Hampshire. A Coll is kill’d in N. Hampshire—the next Coll in the American Army, to him, is in Georgia—must We send the Coll from Georgia, to command the Regiment in New Hampshire—upon his journey, he is seized with a Fever and dies—the next Coll is in Canada. We must then send to Canada, for a Coll to go to Portsmouth and as the next Coll to him is in South Carolina We must send a Coll from S. Carolina to Canada, to command that Regiment. These Marches, and Countermarches, must run through all the Corps of officers, and will occasion such inextricable Perplexities, delays, and Un certainties, that We need not hesitate to pronounce it impracticable and ruinous. Shall We say then that succession shall take Place, among the officers of every distinct Army—or in every distinct Department? My own private opinion is, that We shall never be quite right, untill every Colony is permitted to raise their own Troops, and the Rule of succession is established among the officers of the Colony. This, where there are Troops of several Colonies, serving in the same Camp, may be liable to some Inconveniences. But those will be fewer than upon any other Plan you can adopt. It is right I believe, to make the Rule of Promotion among Captains and Subalterns, regimental only—and that among Field officers more general. But the Question is how general, it shall be? Shall it extend to the whole American Army? or only to the whole District, or Department? or only to the Army, serving at a particular Place? That it is necessary to inlist an Army to serve during the War, or at least for a longer Period than one Year, and to offer some handsome Encouragement for that End, I have been convinced, a long Time. I would make this Temptation to consist partly in Money, and partly in Land, and considerable in both. It has been too long delayed—But I think it will now be soon done. What is the Reason that New York must continue to embarrass the Continent? Must it be so forever? What is the Cause of it? Have they no Politicians, capable of instructing and forming the Sentiments of their People? Or are their People incapable of seeing and feeling like other Men. One would think that their Proximity to New England, would assimilate their opinions and Principles. One would think too that the Army would have some Influence upon them. But it seems to have none. N. York is likely to have the Honour of being the very last of all in imbibing the genuine
