June 23, 1776 297 Pray let me know the state of the Small Pox, an Enemy which we have more cause to fear than any other. Is it among our Troops? Is it among the Canadians, I mean the Inhabitants of the Country? Can no effectual Means be used to annihilate the Infection? Cannot it be kept out of the army? The New England Militia will be of no Use, if they came in ever so great Numbers, if that distemper is to Seize them, as soon as they arrive. LB (MHi). 1 Sullivan’s May 4 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi, and Sullivan, Letters (Hammond), 1:194-96. 2 Undoubtedly Sullivan’s letter to George Washington of June 5-6, 1776. See Benjamin Franklin to George Washington, June 21, 1776, note 2. 3 Undoubtedly Nathan Rice. See also Adams to Horatio Gates, June 18, 1776. John Adams to Cotton Tufts My dear Friend • Philadelphia June 23d. 1776 It is with Shame, and Confusion of Face, that I acknowledge that your agreable Favour of April the twenty sixth, 1 came duely to my Hand and has laid by me unanswered to this Time. There has been as much Folly and Inattention to my own Pleasure, and Interest, in this Negligence as there is of Ingratitude to you, for in the sincerity of my Heart I declare, that none of the Letters of my numerous Correspondents, contain more important Information or more sen sible Observations, than yours. In a Letter I received last night from Boston, I have the Pleasure to learn that your Ideas of fortifying the Harbour have been adopted, and by the next Post or two I hope to be informed that every hostile ship is made to scamper. The Danger, you apprehend, that our Armies will be thinned by the Freedom of Trade is real, but perhaps the Restraints laid upon it, by our Enemies may correct the Error, if it is one. The Voice of the People was so loud for it, that it was adopted altho some Persons thought it dangerous, and none expected any great Ad vantage from it before the next Winter. You mention Independence and Confederation. These Things are now become Objects of direct Consideration. Days, and Times, without Number, have been spent upon these Subjects, and at last a Committee is appointed to prepare a Draught of Confederation, and a Declaration that these Colonies are free States, independent of all Kings, Kingdoms, Nations, People, or States in the World. . . 2
