310 June 24, 1776 at Portsmouth came duly to hand. I inform’d you in my last which went by Saturdays post, that the Marine Committee desire you would ship your men so soon as you can. They also direct me to desire You’ll provide six months wet Provisions, &: four months Dry, this stock to be keep good. You’ll apply to the Commasary at Boston for the Provisions (that is the Beef, Pork, & Bread or flouer) he has orders to supply you. As for Guns, that matter remains as when I wrote you last. I cannot prevail with Gov. Hopkins to consent to part with those at Providence. I tell him Your ship will make a cruize of three months if she has guns, before either of the Provi dence ships can be got to sea, but he insists that those ships are as forward as Yours. I believe the Guns must go from hence. There is a probability that enough for one ship will be in town in about 10 days, & You may depend I shall exert every nerve to get the first for you. I am just come from the Marine Commite & have once more got their Unanimos consent to nominate you for agent. 1 I think there is no doubt but you’ll be appointed, but believe it will be in expecta tion that you resign Your seat in Congress, which I have assur’d all that I have mentioned the matter to that you are determined on. I suppose a list of offices are on the way here. I shall dispatch them as soon as they arrive. 2 There has been a most hellish conspiracy at New York; 3 we have not the particulars of it yet, but by the best information I can get, the plan was to assassinate the General, blow up the magazine and spike the cannon; this was to be done on the arrival of the enemy it’s supposed. However there is a full discovery of the whole plot and a considerable number, say 30, or 40 of the infernal villains seized and I hope justice will be done to them. Governor Franklin is seized by the Convention of New Jersey and is to be confined in Connecticut. 4 The middle Colonies are getting in a good way. Next Monday being the first of July, the grand question is to be debated and I believe determined unanimously. May God unite our hearts in all things that tend to the well being of the rising Empire. Yours very sincerely, Wm Whipple [P.SJ Col. Bartlett desires his regards, but is too lazy to write. FC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973); Tr (DLC). 1 Congress appointed Langdon prize agent the next day. JCC, 5:478. Josiah Bart lett also revealed a mixed reaction to Langdon’s appointment. “I know not whether to congratulate or condole with you on your appointment to the Agency, as your acceptance of that office must vacate your seat in Congress, and tho’ I did what was in my power to procure that Birth for you, as I knew it was your desire, and that you would perform the business well, yet I must confess it gave me no pleasure when I knew on what conditions only you must have it—resigning your seat here.”
