312 June 25, 1776 ments than what they had by the printed arrangements made by Congress last summer. My reasons for mentioning this is, because your Congress may not have heard of such new arrangement, and by taking up the old one might do injustice to those who the Congress have in view more particularly to provide for. Capt. Bruyn, I believe, is the oldest captain who continued in Canada; and from my brother’s character of him, well deserves the post which his rank will entitle him to. He is a young man of education and fortune, and bears an unblemished character. I wish and believe young Platt may be prop erly provided for in this regiment; he was with Major Duboys and Capt. Bruyn at Point Lacoy, at the engagement between our people and a number of Canadians, in which the latter was defeated, and behaved well, as Major Duboys can testify. We have just received the disagreeable intelligence from Canada, of the defeat of part of our army under Genl. Thompson, and of his being taken, &c. &c. which you must have had before it reached us. 2 We seem unfortunate in that quarter; but we must learn to bear the sound of bad as well as good news; indeed, it would be unreason able to expect the chance of war always in our favour. We have nothing new here worth communicating; whenever we have, you may expect to hear from me. I mean this scroll for my friends Treadwell and Hubbel, as well as you, not having time to write to either of them. My best compliments to them, and believe me to be, Yours, most affectionately, Geo. Clinton. P. S. Please to forward the enclosed to Mrs. Clinton. I can’t find any such stockings as you mentioned yet. I can get green thread German Town stockings, but very dear. Will they do? MS not found; reprinted from George Clinton, Public Papers of George Clinton, First Governor of New York, 1777-1795, 1801-1804, ed. Hugh Hastings and J. A. Holden, 10 vols. (New York and Albany: Wynkoop Hallenbeck Crawford Co. et al., 1899-1914), 1:239-41. 1 See JCC, 5:471-72. See also John Hancock to the New York Convention, June 21 and 26, 1776. * Letters from Generals Arnold, Sullivan, and Thompson describing the latest American reverses in Canada were transmitted to Congress by Washington in his June 23 letter to Hancock. See PCC, item 152, 2:89-102; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1035-39. Elbridge Gerry to Horatio Gates Dear General Philadelphia June 25th 1776 Since I had the pleasure of seeing You in this Place the affairs of Canada having been evidently suffering from Want of an experi enced officer to take the Command; 8c your Appointment to that
