June 25, 1776 317 affirm that either of these are of the neuter gender, but on the other hand am persuaded the people are in favour of a total and final separation, and will support the measure, even if the con ventions and delegates of those colonies vote against it. Since my first arrival in this city the New-England delegates have been in a continual war with the advocates of proprietary interests in congress and this colony. These are they who are most in the way of the measures we have proposed, but I think the contest is pretty nearly at an end, and am persuaded that the people of this and the middle colonies have a clearer view of their interest, and will use their endeavours to eradicate the ministerial influence of governours, proprietors and jacobites, and that they now more con fide in the politics of the New-England colonies than they ever did in those of their hitherto unequal governments. Your’s as ever, E. Gerry. MS not found; reprinted from Austin, Life of Gerry, 1:193-94. 1 Perhaps James Warren’s letter dated June 12, 1776, in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:829-30. John Hancock to Certain Colonies Gentlemen, Philadelphia June 25th. 1776. Since my last of the 211 Inst. I have Nothing further in Charge from Congress, except the enclosed Resolves, which are so full and explicit that I need not enlarge. 1 You will perceive, they are calculated to prevent Insurrections and to introduce good Order, and Obedience to Laws thro-out the United Colonies; Objects of the greatest Importance in our present Situation: since all internal Convulsions, while they weaken the Force & Springs of Government, must necessarily render its Operations agt. foreign Enemies, less vigorous and decisive. I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed. 8c very hble Sev. J. H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: "To The Convention of New Hampshire. The Assembly of Massachusetts Bay. The Assembly of Rhode Island. The Assembly of Connecticut. The Convention of New York.’’ 1 See the resolves on allegiance, treason, and counterfeiting passed by Congress on June 24 in JCC, 5:475-76. This day Hancock also sent an almost identical letter to the Maryland Convention. Red Books, MdAA. John Hancock to Certain Colonies Gentlemen, Philada. June 25th. 1776 The Congress have this Day come to the enclosed Resolves, which
