June 25, 1776 321 Evening and in answer thereto I have now to inform you, that when Congress appointed the Captains for the Frigates 1 it was agreed that the Rank should be setled hereafter, and that the Captains should only at present be Certified of their appointment. Captain. Nicholson has been strongly recommended, and Congress has a high opinion of his abilities and merit and I have no doubt of his standing pretty high in rank. The Marine Committee will pay great attention to the recommendations of Capt. Nicholson and your board of Commissioners for building the Frigate, but when you recommend two Gentn. for Sea Lieutenants it would be well to get such of your delegates as may be in your province to Join in such recommendation. I believe it will be agreeable to the Com mittee that Captain Nicholson should recommend all the Warrant Officers, in this however you can also Join, and the Committee will immediately transmitt the Warrants filled up agreeable to such recommendation. The Marine Officers for your Ship will be ap pointed to day, their names you have below, the sooner Capt. Nich olson engages all the Warrant & petty officers the more agreeable it will be to the Committee who wish to have the Ships ready soon as possible. 2 I fear many of them will wait for Guns & Anchors. I am in haste, Sir, Your mo. Obed huml Serv, Joseph Hewes John Stewart, Captain 'I Tho. Pownal, first Lieut. V Marines Richd. Harrison, Second Lieutn. J N.B. These Gentlemen were strongly recommended by the delegates of your Province 8c I hope they will be agreeable to all. RC (MdHi). 1 Done on June 6. ]CC, 5:423. 2 See JCC, 5:478. Maryland Delegates to Matthew Tilghman Sir, Philada. 25 June 1776 Since writing the Enclosed 1 the post arrived from York and brought a letter from General Sullivan to the Congress giving a Melancholy account of another unfortunate event in Canada. Gene ral Thompson who was ordered with a party of two thousand Men to dislodge the English forces at the Three Rivers was attacked by General Burgoine and totally routed. Thompson and Several others are taken prisoners, and about one hundred and fifty of his men killed, the rest returned to the Sorel. The letter Says further (I
