322 June 25, 1776 think) Arnold had abandoned Montreal, and that upon the whole our affairs in Canada bear a most unpromiseing aspect. This bad news is in Some measure Counterballanced by more agreeable In telligence from Boston, the publick papers from thence inform us that the English Ships of War are all driven away from the Boston Harbour and private letters Say that five transports with Scotch Troops have been taken lately and carried into the Eastern Ports. The post is just Setting off and will not allow me to be more partic ular. We shall by the next opportunity transmit to you a more full and satisfactory Account. A report prevails here, which is believed to be true, that a most diabolical plot to assasinate the General at York, blow up the Magazine, and Spike the Cannon has lately been discovered, many people it is Said have been thrown into prison, and some remain under guard, among the rest is the Mayor of the City. What with External and internal Enemies we fancy we Shall very Shortly have our hands full of business. We are Sir, with Great Esteem, yr. Most Obedt. Servant, J Rogers Tr (MdAA). Addressed: "The Honourable Matthew Tilghman, Esquire, President of the Maryland Convention.” 1 Not found. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, Philidelpa. 25t June 1776 I Wrote to you last Saturday and informed you that I had been unwell since which I find myself much better, but as my Health is rather low and Other Reasons strongly Urge Me to Return to my Family, I purpose therefore to Set out for home in a few days. 1 I have not been so ill as to be in the least confined, but a long Atten tion to Business of the Sendentary Kind has produced a Relaxation which nothing but a Journey can Cure. Mr. Huntington I hear is on the Way, he will likely be in this Morning. 2 Mr. Sherman puts in to Return but as he went home about Two Months ago, I think I have a prior and better Right. Wishing you, my Family and Freinds the Blessing of the Almighty, I Subscribe myself with the tenderest Affection yrs, Oliver Wolcott RC (RPJCB). 1 Wolcott probably left Philadelphia on June 28, since his letter of July 1 to Matthew Griswold, written from New York while en route home, discussed pro ceedings that transpired in Congress on June 27. His 1776 accounts with the state of Connecticut indicate that for this period of service he eventually collected
