326 June 26, 1776 The Reasons that induced Congress to take this Step, as it is a Deviation from Rule, should be particularly mentioned. I am therefore directed to inform you, that in Consequence of their being furnished with a List of the Officers who had served in Canada, and the Rank to which they were entitled, they have been enabled to appoint, and in Fact, have only appointed, such as were originally recommended & appointed by the Provincial Congress of your Colony, and have served faithfully both the last Summer Campaign, and through the Winter. It is therefore apprehended the Congress have only prevented 2 you in their Appointments, and that the same Gentlemen would have met with your Approbation for their Services to their Country. Added to this, the last Intelligence from Canada, shewing our Affairs to be in the most imminent Danger, rendered the utmost Dispatch necessary, that not a Moment’s Time might be lost. The other Officers of the Battalion, I am to request you will be pleased to appoint, and to exert every Nerve to equip the Bat talion as soon as possible. As an additional Encouragement, the Congress have resolved, that a Bounty of ten Dollars be given every Soldier who shall enlist for three Years. 3 I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed and very hble Ser. J.H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). ’See JCC, 5:481. 3 Used here in the sense of anticipated. 3 See JCC, 5:483. The New York Convention, after protesting against what it re garded as congressional usurpation of its right to nominate officers for New York troops, agreed to accept the appointments Congress had already made for the new regiment and asked Congress to select the rest of the officers for this unit. See New York Convention to Hancock, July 11, 1776, in PCC, item 67, 1:232-35, and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1395-96. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia June 26th. 1776. You will perceive by the enclosed Resolves, which I do myself the Honour of transmitting in Obedience to the Commands of Con gress, and to which I beg Leave to request your Attention, that they have come to a Resolution to augment the Number of Troops, destined for the Northern Department, four Thousand. 1 It is scarcely necessary to mention the Motives on which they acted, or to explain the Propriety of the Measure. The Arrival of Genl. Burgoyne with a large Reinforcement—the known Char acter of that Officer for Action and Enterprize—the Defeat of General Thompson with the Troops under his Command, and his being made Prisoner, are so many Circumstances, that point out
