June 26, 1776 327 the absolute Necessity of being more expeditious in our Prepara tions for the Defence of that Province, and of encreasing our Force there. In this Light I have represented the Matter to [the] Convention of New Hampshire, and the Assemblies of Massachussetts Bay, and Connecticut, to whom I have wrote by this Express, in the most pressing Language, urging them to send forward their Militia. As an additional Encouragement, the Congress have resolved that a Bounty of ten Dollars be given every Soldier who shall enlist for three Years. I have also wrote to the Convention of New York on the Sub ject of the enclosed Resolve; and have delivered Col. Dubois, Col. Bruyn, and Major Goforth, their Commissions. Should you be able, consistent with the Safety of New York, to afford any Assistance to the Canada Department, I am to request you will do it, and give such Directions, as you think will promote the Public Service. 2 You will please to give Coll. Dubois the necessary Directions respecting the Raising his Regiment, he will wait on you immediately on his Arrival at New York. I have the honour to be with Esteem, Sir, Your most Obedt Servt. John Hancock Presidt. [P.S.] I must Request the favr. of you to order a fresh Express to proceed with the Inclos’d Letters to the Northern Colonies. 3 RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with concluding paragraph, signature, and postscript by Hancock. 1 These resolves, dealing with reinforcements for the American army in Canada and the appointment of officers for Col. Lewis Dubois’ battalion, are in JCC, 5:479, 481, 483. 2 Washington replied on June 29 that owing to troop shortages in his own army at New York he was unable “to afford the least assistance to the Canada Depart ment.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:199. ’See Hancock to Certain Colonies, June 25, 1776. New Hampshire Delegates to Meshech Weare Sir Philadelphia 26th June 1776 The repeated Misfortunes our army in Canada have met with, make it necessary that a Strong reinforcement should be sent there as Speedily as possible. The many Disadvantages we shall Labour under by the Enemies being in full Possession of that Country, & the Lakes, is so obvious, it is needless to mention them. By the last accounts Genl. Burgoyne with a strong army, was as high up the St Laurence as the three Rivers, where he had defeated a detachment of 2000 men under Genl. Thompson & taken him Prisoner. Sickness and other disasters have much dispirited our men, unless they are speedily supported by a strong reinforcement its un-
