328 June 26, 1776 certain what will be the consequence. The New England Colonies & New-York will be more immediately affected by our misfortunes there, then the other Colonies; & from their Scituation its likely will be able to afford the earliest assistance. For these reasons Congress have come to the Resolutions that are transmitted to you by the President Requesting that a Regiment in addition to that which was some time ago Requested, may be sent with all Possible dispatch from our Colony to join the Army in Canada. 1 If these troops can be rais’d soon it will have a tendency to raise the spirits of those already in that Country, and will in our opinion, be the only method of securing the frontiers of our Colony at the expence of the Continent. We shall be exceedingly glad to know from time to time, how you suceed in raising these Troops; it wod also be very agreeable, & serviceble, could we be inform’d of other Public transactions, in the Colony. Please to send by first opportunity a Copy of President Cutts Commission, also any Papers shewing Govr Wentworths authority, for Granting Lands westward of Connecticut River. 2 We understand Mr Langdon intends to resign his seat in Congress; if that shod be the case we hope some body will be immediately appointed in his Room. 3 We have the Honour to be, With Great Respect, Sir, Your Most Obt. Serts. Josiah Bartlett Wm. Whipple RC (PPRF). Written by Whipple and signed by Bartlett and Whipple. 1 See John Hancock to Certain Colonies, June 25, 1776. 2 The New Hampshire delegates were undoubtedly seeking these documents bear ing on their colony’s claims to the New Hampshire Grants as a consequence of the petition that had been presented to Congress on May 8, 1776, by Capt. Heman Allen. Although Congress sidestepped a final determination on the issue, a resolve of June 4 granted Allen “leave to withdraw the petition ... he representing that he has left at home some papers and vouchers necessary to support the allegations therein contained.” Bartlett and Whipple undoubtedly wished to be well prepared when the petition was resubmitted. See JCC, 4:334-35, 337, 405, 416. Allen’s petition is in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:702-5. See also the letter of trans mittal covering the petition and the committee of Congress’ draft resolution recom mending that the “petitioners, for the present submit to the government of New York,” which had been tabled on May 30, 1776, in PCC, item 40, fols. 1-7. ’John Langdon notified Whipple of his resignation from Congress in a letter of July 1, 1776. See Clark, Naval Documents, 5:846. Matthew Thornton, Langdon’s replacement, was not appointed to the New Hampshire delegation until September 12 and did not take his seat in Congress until November 4, 1776. See N.H. State Papers, 8:333; and JCC, 6:920. Secret Committee to Thomas Mumford Sir Philada. June 26th. 1776 We have received your favour of the 7th Inst. 8c thank you for the
