June 29, 1776 337 their account and the Committee for those transactions are made sincible by contracts executed to the Eastwd that Flour Yields an advanced price there. Agreeable thereto youl please to dispose of those 70 bbls and transmit me the Account that I may lay it before the Committee, the weight & Fare of each bbl is mark’d upon the head. I am sorry to find that Capts. Sarly & Kennedy are still detained in your harbor by the ships of War. I hope they will embrace the first good opportunity for going to sea. I expect there is another Sloop and Ship (ere this) in your harbor laden from Nw York for the Continental Account. Pray communicate this to the Capts. Sarly & Kennedy and that I have received Capt Sarleys letters, that they must waite with patience & take the first favourable oppor tunity. The other parts of your Letter I communicated to the President in Congress, who promised me he would furnish you with the Agents appointmt and printed Instructions, that relative to the Seamen shall lay before the Marine Committee at their stated meeting on Monday next. 2 I shall be always glad to render you any services here & am, Dr. Sir, Your very Humble Servt, Fra Lewis RC (CtY). “This letter from Shaw, the Continental prize agent in Connecticut, is in Clark, Naval Documents, 5:625-26. “Despite the fact that Shaw was appointed prize agent on April 23, he had not received official notice of the appointment by June 19 when he wrote to Lewis. Ibid; and JCC, 4:301. Edward Rutledge to John Jay My dear Jay Philadelphia, June 29, 1776 I write this for the express Purpose of requesting that if possible you will give your Attendance in Congress on Monday next. I know full well that your Presence must be useful at New York, but I am sincerely convinced that it will be absolutely necessary in this City during the whole of the ensuing Week. A Declaration of Independence, the Form of a Confederation of these Colonies, and a Scheme for a Treaty with foreign Powers will be laid before the House on Monday. Whether we shall be able effectually to oppose the first, and infuse Wisdom into the others will depend in a great Measure upon the Exertions of the Honest and sensible part of the Members. I trust you will contribute in a considerable degree to effect the Business and therefore I wish you to be with us. Rec ollect the manner in which your Colony is at this Time represented.
