338 June 29, 1776 Clinton has Abilities but is silent in general, and wants (when he does speak) that Influence to which he is intitled. 1 Floyd, Wis ner, Lewis and Alsop though good Men, never quit their Chairs. You must know the Importance of these Questions too well not to wish to pe] present whilst they are debating and therefore I shall say no more upon the Subject. I have been much engaged lately upon a plan of a Confed eration which Dickenson has drawn. 2 It has the Vice of all his Productions to a considerable Degree; I mean the Vice of Refining too much. Unless it is greatly curtailed it never can pass, as it is to be submitted to Men in the respective Provinces who will not be led or rather driven into Measures which may lay the Foun dation of their Ruin. If the Plan now proposed should be adopted nothing less than Ruin to some Colonies will be the Consequence of it. The Idea of destroying all Provincial Distinctions and making every thing of the most minute kind bend to what they call the good of the whole, is in other Terms to say that these Colonies must be subject to the Government of the Eastern Provinces. 3 The Force of their Arms I hold exceeding Cheap, but I confess I dread their over-ruling Influence in Council, I dread their low Cunning, and those levelling Principles which Men without Character and without Fortune in general Possess, which are so captivating to the lower Class of Mankind, and which will occasion such a fluc tuation of Property as to introduce the greatest disorder. I am resolved to vest the Congress with no more Power than what is absolutely necessary, and to use a familiar Expression to keep the Staff in our own Hands, for I am confident if surrendered into the Hands of others a most pernicious use will be made of it. If you can’t come let me hear from you by the Return of the Post. 4 Compliments to Livingston and G. Morris. God bless you. With Esteem and affection, Yours, E. Rutledge RC (NNC). lay, Papers (Morris), 1:280-81. ’Although the precise day Clinton left Philadelphia is not known, he appar ently remained until near the end of the first week in July. His account for service in the Continental Congress indicates that he claimed compensation for the period May 10, 1775, to July 12, 1776, which undoubtedly included travel time from and to New York. See Stan V. Henkels Catalog, no. 1343 (January 17, 1924), item 129. It is also known that on July 12 General Washington directed a letter to him at New Windsor. Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:227. * Rutledge was a member of the committee appointed on June 12 to draw up a plan of confederation. JCC, 5:433. • Perhaps one feature of the proposed Articles of Confederation that Rutledge found objectionable at this stage was a clause in the committee’s draft vesting either "Congress or . . . some Court for that purpose” with authority to settle boundary disputes which states themselves could not resolve. In any case this clause did not appear in the draft articles that were finally submitted to Congress on July 12. See the 13th article of Josiah Bartlett’s Draft Articles of Confederation, June 17-July 1? 1776.
