342 June 30, 1776 Francis Lightfoot Lee to Richard Henry Lee Dear Brother, Philadelphia June 30th. 1776 Our affairs in Canada are at length brot to a conclusion, and we have now to contend with all the bad consequences which have been apprehended from the Enemy’s being in possession of that Country. You will see by the papers that Genl. Thomson was sent with 2000 men to dislodge a party of the Enemy at Trois Rivieres, but Genl. Burgoine having arrived with a considerable body of troops, our men were obliged to retreat with the loss of 150, leaving the Genl. & a few others in captivity. Burgoine pursued his advantage, and our Generals found it absolutely necessary to retire out of the Country with their sick & dispirited Army. The accounts of Burgoine’s force are from 8 to 10,000. We cou’d not muster above 3000, all the rest being in the small pox. Our Army, being 7000 brot off all their artillery, stores, baggage & provisions; having destroyed all the forts & bridges behind them. They are now at Crown Point, where they propose to make a stand against Burgoine’s Army, assisted by Canadians & Indians, by keeping the mastery of Lake Champlain, if possible which is much to be doubted, as he has bro’t with him a great number of vessells ready framed. At New York Genl. Washington has not 19000 men, &: 50 of Howe’s fleet are now at the hook. None of the militia is yet come in, & Genl. Washington is apprehensive they will not, till it is too late, and there is reason to fear they will never join the Army at Crown Point for fear of the small pox, or if they do, that they will be rendered useless by it. Add to all this, that it is certain great num bers in the Province of N York will join the Enemy. A horrid plot was lately discoverd in the City, to deliver up our Army to the Enemy by spiking the Cannon & blowing up the Magazine & some say to assassinate the Genl. We have not yet the particulars but many are in goal. They had debauched two of the Genl’s guards, one of whome is executed. 1 Thus you have a full view of the sit uation of our affairs, from which I dare say you will agree with me, that we are in a most perilous state, from which nothing but some extraordinary event, can extricate us. We have advice, that the crew of one of the Ships that sailed from this port last winter, loaded by the Congress, confined the Capt. & carried her into Bristol and discover’d the signals by which all the other ships were to distinguish their friends from their Enemies upon their arrival on this Coast. I have nothing to ballance this dismal Acct., but that we have taken about 700 of Frazer’s highlanders; & that depending on the goodness of our Cause, we have not lost our spirit. July 1st. This day the resolve for independency was considered
