June 1776 343 & agreed to in Comtee of the whole, two dissentients S. Carolina & Pensylvania. N. York did not vote, not being empower’d. Tomorrow it will pass the house with the concurrence of S. Carolina. The Pensylvania delegates indulge their own wishes, tho they ac knowledge, what indeed everybody knows, that they vote con trary to the earnest desires of the people. This morning a unanimous vote of the Maryland Convention was brot to Congress, empowering their delegates to concur in all points with Congress. All the Colonies have declared their sense, except N. York, whose new Convention, now choosing, is to do the business. We expect you will join us in August, as soon as Government is settled; 2 indeed it will be necessary as Col. Braxton talks of going away in 3 weeks, & I suppose Col. Harrison will go early in August, which will leave us a bare representation. 3 or 4 months will in a great measure decide the fate of America. Tho I think, if our people keep up their spirits, & are determined to be free; whatever advantages the Enemy may gain over us This summer & fall; we shall be able to deprive them of in the winter, & put it out of their power ever to injure us again. Yet I confess I am uneasy, least any considerable losses on our side, shou’d occasion such a panick in the Country, as to induce a sub mission. The evil is coming, which I always dreaded, at the time when all our attention, every effort shou’d be to oppose the Enemy, we are disputing about Government Sc independence. My best re spects to all friends, & believe me upon all occasions your most afft. friend & bror. Francis Lightfoot Lee [P.S.] Will you do the needfull, with respect to Mr. Lee’s estate, before you return? I think Tom Belfeild will be as good a manager, as you can get. RC (ViHi). 1 Thomas Hickey, a member of Washington’s guard, was court-martialed for sedi tion, mutiny, and recruiting men for the enemy and was executed on June 28. Many of the rumors generated by his arrest, including that of an assassination plot, were not supported by the charges of his conviction. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:182; and William Whipple to Joshua Brackett, June 23, 1776, note 3. 2 Richard Henry was at this time in Williamsburg attending the Virginia Con vention. His letter of June 29 to Gen. Charles Lee, in which he reported that “I shall return to Chantilly in a few days and remain there until the last of August, when I go to Philadelphia,” is in Richard Henry Lee, The Letters of Richard Henry Lee, ed. James C. Ballagh, 2 vols. (New York: Macmillan Co., 1911-14), 1:203-5. Samuel Adams to Perez Morton My dear sir, Philada June 1776 When I was at Watertown in August last the General Assembly
