346 July 1, 1776 which We have in View, and We must expect a great Expence of Blood to obtain it. But We should always remember, that a free Constitution of civil Government cannot be purchased at too dear a Rate; as there is nothing on this Side of the new Jesusalem, of equal Importance to Manklind. It is a cruel Reflection that a little more Wisdom, a little more Activity, or a little more Integrity would have preserved Us Canada, and enabled Us to Support this trying Conflict at less Expence of Men and Money. But irretrievable miscarriages ought to be lamented no further, than to enable and Stimulate us to do better in future. Your Colleagues Hall and Gwinn, 4 are here in good Health, and Spirits, and as firm as you your self could wish them. Present my Compliments to Mr Houstoun. Tell him the Colonies will have Republics, for their Government, let us Lawyers and your Divine 5 say what we will. I have the Honour to be, with great Esteem and Respect, Sir, your sincere friend, and most humble Servant. LB (MHi). 1 Bulloch’s May 1 letter to Adams, explaining his appointment as president of Georgia, is in the Adams Papers, MHi. 2 Adams played a prominent role in this debate, apparently delivering the prin cipal response to John Dickinson’s lengthy speech in opposition to independence. As Adams explained in his autobiography: “No Member rose to answer him: and after waiting some time, in hopes that some one less obnoxious than myself, who had been all along for a Year before, and still was represented and believed to be the Author of all the Mischief, I determined to speak. “It has been said by some of our Historians, that I began by an Invocation to the God of Eloquence. This is a Misrepresentation. Nothing so puerile as this fell from me. I began by saying that this was the first time of my Life that I had ever wished for the Talents and Eloquence of the ancient Orators of Greece and Rome, for I was very sure that none of them ever had before him a question of more Importance to his Country and to the World. They would probably upon less Occasions than this have begun by solemn Invocations to their Divinities for Assistance but the Question before me appeared so simple, that I had confidence er ough in the plain Understanding and common Sense that had been given me, to believe that I could answer to the Satisfaction of the House all the Arguments which had been produced, notwithstanding the Abilities which had been displayed and the Eloquence with which they had been enforced. Mr. Dickinson, some years afterwards published his Speech. I had made no Preparation before hand and never committed any minutes of mine to writing.” Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:396-97. See also John Dickinson’s Notes for a Speech in Congress, this date. ’Robert Treat Paine noted in his diary for this day: “Fine showers. Genl. Howe’s Army arrived at Sandy Hook.” MHi. 4 Lyman Hall and Button Gwinnett. ’John J. Zubly. See Zubly to Archibald Bulloch and John Houstoun, Novem ber 10? 1775.
