July 1, 1776 349 and that Portsmouth might be Defended at the Expence of the Continent, and I was in hopes those men we had there would be immediately put on the Continental Establishment (as has been Done in several other Colonies) and others inlisted to make them up to a full Regiment; by that means the heavy Expence of main- taing those men would be saved to the Colony. But if they are kept in pay & another Regiment is raised beside, I fear when it is known it will be thought to be more than is necessary, and possibly the Continental Regiment will be ordered or at least a Considerable part of it to some other place and the Colony reap no advantage by raising them. If it be necessary for the public Safety I am willing to spare neither Cost nor pains; yet as almost Every Colony have raised men for their Defence at the Expence of the Continent, I should be sorry to loose the Benefit the Congress Designed us. I would not have you think by what I have wrote that I mean to Censure what you have Done; you may & no Doubt have good rea son for it; But as things appear to me and as other Colonys have Done, I should not have thought best to keep any men at Ports mouth in the pay of the Colony, as I believe one full regiment will be Quite sufficient unless in Case of an attack when the militia will be called in. The whole Congress are unanimous for forming a plan of Con federation of the Colonies. A Committe of one from Each Colony, have been upon it for about a fortnight at all oppertunities; last Saturday the Committe spent the whole Day on it, this Day after Congress we are to meet again when I Believe it will be fitted to lay before Congress. 2 When the Congress will model it to their minds I know not. Before it is in force it will be laid before all the Legis latures of the Colonies and Receive their Sanction. It is a Business of the greatest importance as the future happiness of America will Depend on it in a great measure; and you may Easily see the Diffi culty to frame it so as to be agreable to the Delegates of all the Different Colonies & of the Colonial Legislatures also; for without the unanimous Consent of all it Cannot be Established. May the Supreme Disposer of all Events overrule this and all our affairs for the happiness & Safety of America. Mr Dickenson the Pensylvania farmer is one of the Committee. The Resolve of our Colony with regard to our Conduct in the affair of Independency Came to hand on Saturday, 3 very Seasonably, as that Question was agreable to order this day taken up' in a Committe of the whole House & every Colony fully represented; Thus much I can inform you that it was agreed to in Committe & I make no Doubt but that by next post I shall be able to send you a formal Declaration of Independency Setting forth the reasons &c. By letters from General Lee we are informed that Genl. Clinton with above 50 Sail of Ships &c were before Charlestown South Carolina, 4
