July 1, 1776 353 Injuries offered to their Country, may irritate them to Counsels 8c to Actions that may be detrimental to the Cause they would dye to advance. What Advantages? 2. 1. Animate People. 2. Convince foreign Powers of our Strength 8c Unanimity, 8c aid in consequence thereof. As to 1st—Unnecessary. Life, Liberty 8c Property sufficient Motive. General Spirit of America. As to 2d—foreign Powers will not rely on Words. The Event of the Campaign will be the best Evidence. This properly the first Campaign. Who has received Intelligence that such a Proof of our Strength 8c daring Spirit will be agreeable to France? What must she expect from a People that begin their Em pire in so high a stile, when on the Point of being invaded by the whole Power of G.B. aided by [formidable foreign?] aid— unconnected with foreign Power? She 8c Spain must perceive the imminent Danger of their Colonies lying at our Doors. Their Seat of Empire in another world. Masserano. 4 Intelligence from Cadiz. More respectful to act in Conformity to the views of France. Take advantage of their Pride, Give them Reason to believe that We confide in them, desire to act in conjunction with their Policies 8c Interests. Know how they will regard this {new Star) Stranger in the States of the world. People fond of what they have attained in producing. Regard it as a Child—A Cement of affection. Allow them the glory of appearing the vindicators of Liberty. It will please them. It is treating them with Contempt to act otherwise. Especially after the application made to France which by this time has reach’d them. Bermuda 5 May. 5 Abilities of the person sent. What will they think, if now so quickly after without waiting for their Determination—Totally slighting their sentiments on such a prodigous [. . .]—We haughtily pursue our own Measures? May they not say to Us, Gentlemen You falsely pretended to consult Us, 8c disrespectfully proceeded without waiting our Resolution. You must abide the Consequences. We are not ready for a Rupture. You should have negotiated till We were. We will not be hurried by your Impetuosity. We know it is our Interest to support You. But we shall be in no haste about it. Try your own strength & Resources in which you have such Confidence. We know now you dare not look back. Reconciliation is impossible without declaring Yourselves the most rash 8c at the same Time the most contemptible Thrasos 6 that ever existed on Earth. Suppose on this Event G.B. should offer Canada to France 8c Florida to Spain with an Extension of the old Limits. Would not France 8c Spain accept them? Gentlemen say the Trade of all America is more valuable to France than Canada. I grant it but suppose she may get both. If she is politic, 8c none
