354 July 1, 1776 doubts that, I averr she has the easiest Game to play for attaining both, that ever presented itself to a Nation. When We have bound ourselves to an eternal Quarrel with G.B. by a Declaration of Independence, France has nothing to do but to hold back 8c intimidate G.B. till Canada is put into her Hands, then to intimidate Us into a most disadvantageous Grant of our Trade. It is my firm opinion these Events will take Place—8c arise naturally from our declaring Independance. As to Aid from foreign Powers. Our Declaration can procure Us none this Campaign tho made today. It is impossible. Now consider if all the advantages expected from foreign Powers cannot be attained in a more unexceptionable manner. Is there no way of giving Notice of a Nation’s Resolutions than by proclaiming it to all the world? Let Us in the most solemn Manner inform the House of Bourbon, at least France, that we wait only for her Determination to declare an Independance. We must not talk gen erally of foreign Powers but of those We expect to favor Us. Let Us assure Spain that we never will give any assistance to her Colonies. Let France become Guarantee. Form arrangements of this Kind. Besides, first Establish our governments 8c take the Regular Form of a State. These preventive Measures will shew Deliberation, wis dom, Caution 8c Unanimity. Our Interest to keep G.B. in Opinion that We mean Reunion as long as possible. Disadvantage to administration from Opposition. Her Union from our Declaration. Wealth of London 8cc pour’d into Treasury. The whole Nation ardent against us. We oblige her to persevere. Her Spirit. See last petition of London. Suppose We shall ruin her. France must rise on her Ruins. Her Ambition. Her Re ligion. Our Danger from thence. We shall weep at our victories. Overwhelm’d with Debt. Compute that Debt 6 Millions of Pa. Money a Year. The War will be carried on with more Severity. Burning Towns. Letting Loose Indians on our Frontiers. Not yet done. Boston might have been burnt. What advantages to be expected from a Declara tion? 1. Animating our Troops. Answer, Unnecessary. 2. Union of Colonies. Answer, Also unnecessary. It may weaken that Union— when the People find themselves engaged in a [war] rendered more cruel by such a Declaration without prospect of End to their Calam ities by a Continuation of the War. People changeable. In Bitterness of Soul they may complain against our Rashness 8c ask why We did not apply first to foreign Powers. Why We did not settle all Differ ences among ourselves. Take Care to secure unsettled Lands for easing their Burthens instead of leaving them to particular Colonies. Why not wait till better prepar’d. Till We had made an Experiment of our Strength. This [probably?] the first Campaign.
