356 July 1, 1776 Title page—Binding. I should be glad to know whether in 20 or 30 Years this Commonwealth of Colonies may not be thought too unwieldy—& Hudson’s River be a proper Boundary for a separate Commonwealth to the Northward. I have a strong Impression on my Mind that this will take place. MS (PHi). In the hand of John Dickinson. Endorsed: “Arguments agt. the Inde pendance of these Colonies—in Congress.’’ For additional notes appearing at the end of this MS, see the following entry. These notes are strikingly cryptic and are strewn with abbreviations which have been expanded without brackets in this text. ’This document was identified and dated by John H. Powell in 1941, and no documents have since been discovered that challenge his assessment. “Speech of John Dickinson Opposing the Declaration of Independence, 1 July, 1776,” PMHB 65 (October 1941): 458-81. Powell relied heavily upon Burnett’s Letters and drew particularly from both John Adams’ letter to Samuel Chase of this date and his autobiographical recollections. In this context, a well known passage from Adams’ autobiography merits reprinting. “I am not able to recollect, whether it was on this [July 1], or some preceeding day, that the greatest and most solemn debate was had on the question of Independence. The Subject had been in Contemplation for more than a Year and frequent discussions had been had concerning it. At one time and another, all the Arguments for it and against it had been exhausted and were become familiar. I expected no more would be said in public but that the question would be put and decided. Mr. Dickinson however was determined to bear his Testimony against it with more formality. He had prepared himself apparently with great Labour and ardent Zeal, and in a Speech of great Length, and all his Eloquence, he combined together all that had before been written in Pamphlets and News papers and all that had from time to time been said in Congress by himself and others. He conducted the debate, not only with great Ingenuity and Eloquence, but with equal Politeness and Candour: and was an swered in the same Spirit.” Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:396; Burnett, Letters, 1:521-23. Powell also made three other attempts to tell the story of the events of July 1, the last of which contains a critical analysis of Adams' reliability when reporting on his clashes with Dickinson. For Powell’s final reflections on the subject, as well as on the initial estrangement between the two men that occurred the previous summer, see his two essays “ ‘A Certain Great Fortune and Piddling Genius,' ” and “The Day of American Independence,” in John H. Powell, General Washington and the Jack Ass, and Other American Characters, in Portrait (South Brunswick, N.J.: Thomas Yoseloff, 1969), pp. 86-175, 314-23. 2 At this point Dickinson wrote in the margin: “Drawing Resentment one proof of Virtue.” • In the margin: “Where Men differ, on which side is Passion?” 4 Filipe Ferrero de Fiesco, prince de Masserano, Spanish ambassador to the court of St. James’s. It is not known just what Dickinson knew of Spanish policy at this time or how he learned of the ambassador’s activities in London, but it seems likely that Arthur Lee was his principal source of information on the response of European powers to the American rebellion. Although Americans hoped that both France and Spain would provide them aid and were led to believe this by Beaumarchais, Dickinson feared that it was hazardous to depend upon such assurances. For a second reference to Masserano in this speech, see note 8 below. 5 Perhaps a reference to Silas Deane’s arrival at Bermuda en route to France. Letters from Deane written from Bermuda on May 3 had already been received in Philadelphia. See Robert Morris to Silas Deane, June 5, 1776. ’Thraso was the name of a bragging soldier in Terence’s comedy The Eunuch.
