July 1, 1776 357 7 In the margin: “Even the mere Title of Royalty not assumed without consult ing other Powers [. . . . all actual sovereignty?].” 8 At this point Powell wrote a lengthy note speculating on Dickinson’s under standing of deteriorating Spanish-Portuguese relations and their possible impact on Spanish policy toward Britain. “Speech of John Dickinson.” pp. 476-78n.l00. Unfortunately, the entire discussion rests upon a misreading of Dickinson’s notes and seriously distorts his simple point that it would be premature to act on inde pendence until Congress had learned what reception Silas Deane had met in Europe. In reconstructing Dickinson’s speech, Powell supplied many connectives in brackets to cast it in the form of complete sentences. Thus he printed this passage as follows—brackets omitted: “France & Spain may be alarm’d & provoked with each other; Masserano was an insult to France.” It seems clear, however, that Dickinson actually believed (1) that France and Spain might be alarmed and provoked with Congress, not with each other; and (2) that Congress’ failure to await a response to the Deane mission, not Masserano’s appointment, was an insult to France. In the MS "Masserano” appears at the end of a line; the following passage begins a new one. See also note 4 above. John Dickinson’s Notes on Arguments Concerning Independence [July 1? 1776] 1st argument. Foreign States will not assist Us, untill We declare Independence. No Instance of it. Elizabeth helping Holland. Hol land confederated with England. Answer. States governed by In terests. Elizabeth did not openly assist Holland till She was on the Point of War with Spain. Holland would not treat with Parliament when it had conquered—[. . . .] Charles 1st complained of French Embassadors corresponding with Parliament. Richelieu assisted Parliament. It will convince People of England We are united—Whereas the Ministry tell them some of Us are afraid of Independence. Answer. The King’s Speech expressly charges Us all with aiming at it. 2d. Joy in Virginia on Declaration—the same in every part of America. The Spirit of the People. Blood. Fires. Answer. Raised too much by Resentment. 3d. It will accelerate the People of the Colonies in establishing their Governments. Answer. People are going on as fast as they can. 4th. It will hasten the suppression of Toryism—ascertaining Of fenders, trying them; prevent publication of Tory [declarations?]. Answer. That purpose will be effectually answered by establishing Governments. 5th. The People expect it. Answer. Let them know it is only deferred till a Confederation or a Treaty with Foreign Powers is concluded.
