July 1, 1776 365 so that Pennsylvania’s vote could be cast in favor of independence. As McKean long afterward explained: “The State of Pennsylvania on the 4th. of July (there being five members present, Messrs. Dickinson and Morris, who had in the com mittee of the whole voted against Independence were absent) voted for it; three to two, Messrs. Willing and Humphries in the negative. Unanimity in the thirteen States, an all important point on so great an occasion, was thus obtained; the dissention of a single State might have produced very dangerous consequences." See Burnett, Letters, 1:534-45. Despite McKean’s precise explanation of the behavior of the Pennsylvania dele gates, there is good reason to believe that his memory failed him on this point, and that Dickinson and Morris may have actually been in Congress on July 4. It should be noted, at any rate, that Dickinson’s name appears as a member of the com mittee appointed that day to confer on the defense of New Jersey and Pennsyl vania and that Morris was explicitly ordered by Congress that morning to inquire into a matter related to a vessel employed by the Continental Navy. It is of course possible that both these actions involving the two men could have been taken in their temporary absence, but it seems more likely that McKean’s account of Pennsylvania’s vote on independence pertains to the vote of July 2 on Richard Henry Lee’s resolution rather than the vote on the Declaration on July 4. McKean related his version of this vote twice, in 1796 and in 1813, the first of which is known to be in error on the subject of the weather. Thus McKean wrote “On the 4th (which was a rainy day) Messrs. Dickinson and Morris were absent,” but it is beyond doubt that although it rained for several hours in Philadelphia on July 2, July 4 was a clear day. If, therefore, McKean is wrong about Dickinson’s presence on July 4, it would be a great irony that Jefferson’s credibility was long questioned because of this particular passage from his notes but escaped challenge on other points analyzed in this volume, such as the time of day the Declaration was adopted, now believed to be in error. See Jefferson’s Notes of Proceedings in Congress, June 7-28, note 2; and Committee of Congress to the Lancaster Associators, July 4, 1776, note 2. "For a discussion of the significant alterations that Jefferson made in this para graph, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), l:328n,15. ’The words appearing in these brackets, here and below, Jefferson wrote in the margin, indicating their placement with carets. 8 For discussion of a controversial statement about the signing of the Declaration that Jefferson later wrote on a separate slip and inserted at this point in the MS, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:301-8. For the continuation of these notes, see Jefferson’s Notes of Proceedings in Congress, July 12-August 1, 1776. Thomas Jefferson to William Fleming Dear Fleming Philadelphia. July 1. 1776. Your’s of 22d June came to hand this morning and gratified me much as this with your former contains interesting intelligence. 1 Our affairs in Canada go still retrograde, but I hope they are now nearly at their worst. The fatal sources of these misfortunes have been want of hard money with which to procure provisions, the ravages of the small pox with which one half of our army is still down, and an unlucky choice of some officers. By our last letters, 2 Genl. Sullivan was retired as far as Isle au noix with his dispirited army and Burgoyne pursuing him with one of double or treble his
