370 July 2, 1776 serve all the natural Curiosities that Can be Collected from all parts of the world as Birds, beasts, fish, Shells, Snakes, plants 8c a great many other Curiosities. Among them there was a Shark, a Crocodile, a Cat fish, a Dog fish, a Sea porcupine, a Creature Called a Hog in armour, 2 ostrich’s Eggs which were perfectly round 8c of the Colour of Ivory and I Guess would hold a pint 8c an half Each. There was a great many other Creature of a Strange make from any thing I Ever Saw before 8c whose names I have forgot as I had but a little time there. Snakes Skins Stuft among them a Small Alligators Skin 8cc 8cc 8cc.” Reports availability of some fruits and vegetables at Philadelphia and prices of a few articles of clothing. RC (NhHi). Page one of four-page letter missing. Elbridge Gerry to James Warren Dear sir, Philadelphia 2d July 1776 I have only Time to inform You that Yesterday was agitated in Congress the great Question of Independancy, 8c as the Facts are as well known at the Coffee House of the City as in Congress I may go on to inform You that in a Committee of the Whole House It was carryed by nine Colonies. I remain sir with due Regards, your assured Friend 8c huml serv, Elbridge Gerry RC (Facsimile, Austin, Life of Gerry, following p. 196). Joseph Hewes to Samuel Purviance, Jr. Dear sir, Philadelphia, 2d July, 1776. When I wrote to you last, I believe I mentioned to you only two lieutenants for the ship. 1 It was a mistake. Three are allowed to each of the frigates, so that, when Capt. Nicholson sends up a recommendation for sea officers, he should put down three lieuten ants. Part of General Howe’s army is arrived at Sandy Hook. We must expect warm work in that quarter in a few days. I am, with respect, sir, Your most obedient servant, Joseph Hewes. MS not found; reprinted from Robert Purviance, A Narrative of Events which occurred in Baltimore Town during the Revolutionary War (Baltimore: Jos. Robinson, 1849), p. 198. 1 See Hewes to Samuel Purviance, Jr., June 25, 1776.
