July 3, 1776 375 or they will be no Blessings. The People will have unbounded Power. And the People are extreamly addicted to Corruption and Venality, as well as the Great. 4 I am not without Apprehensions from this Quarter. But I must submit all my Hopes and Fears, to an overruling Providence, in which, unfashionable as the Faith may be, I firmly believe. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:27-28. 1 See Mary Palmer to John Adams, June 15, 1776, Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:9-12. “Abigail and the Adams children were inoculated by Thomas Bulfinch in July. See Abigail Adams to John Adams, July 13-14, 1776, ibid., pp. 45-47. “James Warren had refused an appointment as justice of the Massachusetts Su perior Court of Judicature. 4 The following sentence was apparently inadvertently omitted in the RC and is here taken from the LB in the Adams Papers, MHi. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia July 3d. 1776 Had a Declaration of Independency been made seven Months ago, it would have been attended with many great and glorious Effects. . . J We might before this Hour, have formed Alliances with foreign Sfates. We should have mastered Quebec and been in Possession of Canada. . . . You will perhaps wonder, how such a Declaration would have influenced our Affairs, in Canada, but if I could write with Freedom I could easily convince you, that it would, and explain to you the manner how. Many Gentlemen in high Stations and of great Influence have been duped, by the ministerial Bubble of Commissioners to treat. . . . And in real, sincere Expec tation of this Event, which they so fondly wished, they have been slow and languid, in promoting Measures for the Reduction of that Province. Others there are in the Colonies who really wished that our Enterprise in Canada would be defeated, that the Colonies might be brought into Danger and Distress between two Fires, and be thus induced to submit. Others really wished to defeat the Ex pedition to Canada, lest the Conquest of it, should elevate the Minds of the People too much to hearken to those Terms of Recon ciliation which they believed would be offered Us. These jarring Views, Wishes and Designs, occasioned an opposition to many salutary Measures, which were proposed for the Support of that Expedition, and caused Obstructions, Embarrassments and studied Delays, which have finally, lost Us the Province. All these Causes however in Conjunction would not have disap pointed Us, if it had not been for a Misfortune, which could not be foreseen, and perhaps could not have been prevented, I mean the
