378 July 3, 1776 to send such troops “as they can spare” to Monmouth County, New Jersey. JCC, 5:508. Congress took this step in response to a July 2 letter from John Covenhoven, vice president of the New Jersey Provincial Congress, reporting a gathering of armed tories in Monmouth. PCC, item 68, fols. 161, 164; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1-2. For further details about this episode, see Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1633, 1636-37, 5th ser. 1:37, 139. Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton My Dear friend, Phila. July 4th. 1776. Our Seeming bad Success in Canada, I dare say gives you great uneasiness. In Times of danger, and under misfortunes, true Cour age and Magnanimity can only be Ascertained. In the Course of Such a War we must expect some Losses. We are told a Panick Seized the Army. If so it hath not reached the Senate. At the Time our Forces in Canada were retreating before a Victorious Army, while Genl. Howe with a Large Armament is Advancing towards N. York, Our Congress Resolved to Declare the United Colonies Free and independent States. A Declaration for this Purpose, I ex pect, will this day pass Congress, it is nearly gone through, after which it will be Proclaimed with all the State & Solemnity Circum stances will admit. It is gone so far that we must now be a free inde pendent State, or a Conquered Country. 1 I can readily guess at your feelings upon hearing that Genl Howe with 130 Transports are between N. York & the Hook. This was our last Acct., no express hath come in this morning. All seems Un certainty where they will Land, I assure you I don’t feel quite rec onciled at being here and the Enemy by my door at home. All reports Agree that New Jersey is all in motion to meet the Enemy in Case they pay our Province a Visit, or to Assist N. York as Oc casion may require. Had Genl. Howe Landed his forces as soon as he Arrived he might have Carried all before him. Possibly while I am Writing this he may be reaping the Fruits of a Victory. This seems now to be a trying season, but that indulgent Father who hath hitherto Preserved us will I trust appear for our help, and pre vent our being Crushed; If otherwise, his Will be done. I have no Particular News more to Communicate. No news from Your family to send. I wrote you the day before I left home. I am Among a Consistory of Kings as our Enemy Says. I assure you Sir, Our Congress is An August Assembly—and can they Support the Declaration now on the Anvil, they will be the greatest Assembly on Earth. As I am not Able to Communicate to you any thing but what the Public Papers will Announce, you will readily perceive I mean to let you know you are not forgot by me. Tho’ I address my self to
