July 4, 1776 379 you Sir, yet I mean to include my much esteemed friend Mr Cald well in it. We are now Sir embarked on a most Tempestious Sea, Life very uncertain, Seeming dangers Scattered thick Around us, Plots Against the Military, and it is Whispered, Against the Senate. Let us prepare for the worst, we can Die here but once. May all our Business, all our purposes 8c pursuits tend to lit us for that impor tant event. I am Dr sir, Yours 8c Mr Caldwells most Obedient 8c Huml Servt. Abra. Clark RC (PHi). Addressed: “To Elias Dayton Esqr., Colonel of the third battalion of N. Jersey Forces, at Johns Town, Mohawk River, or Crown Point, to be forwarded to their Station from Albany.” 1 Clark was a member of the delegation elected by the New Jersey Provincial Congress on June 22 and empowered to join with other delegates “in declaring the United Colonies independent of Great Britain, entering into a Confederacy for union and common defense, [and] making treaties with foreign nations for com merce and assistance.” Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1628-29. In an earlier letter to Dayton, Clark had observed of this election: “The Continental Congress are to determine next Monday upon Independency. I am going among them to Morrow. We have a New set of Delegates—Judge Stockton, Francis Hopkinson, Doctor Witherspoon, John Hart & myself. We have raised 5 battalions to go to N. York, they are now nearly raised & will I expect begin to March to Morrow. Mr. [Wil liam] Livingston was appointed to Command them, after Joseph Read [Reed], Who was first Appointed had declined. Mr. Livingston hath declined he told me yester day, and seems much Chagarened at his being left out of Congress, and there is not wanting some who endeavour to persuade him that it was through my means to Supplant him, which was far from true. I used my Endeavours to get him con tinued in, and it is much against my Will that I am Appointed.” Clark to Elias Dayton, June 26, 1776, Sparks Papers, MH. Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant, who was not a member of the new delegation, also made some pertinent comments about this election. “I have declined being appointed anew to the Continental Congress for reasons which I have not Room to explain (this being the only white piece of Paper in Bristol). However You will have a sound Delegation & they were in structed to vote right. ... I am confident it is better that I stay in the Colony for the present than in the Continental Congress. . . . The People of this Colony were quite in the dark as to the Sentiments of the Delegates till lately. Our new ones I trust will not deceive us; but lest they should I wish I could secretly learn their Conduct whenever they may by any Means be found tripping. The others were spoilt among You & I hope You will think this hint worth attending to.” Sergeant to Samuel Adams, June 24, 1776, Samuel Adams Papers, NN. Committee of Congress to the Lancaster Associators Gentlemen, 1 Philadelphia, July 4th, 1776, The Congress this morning 2 directed us to confer with the Com mittees of Safety and Inspection, and the Field Officers now in town, about the proper mode of collecting the militia of this prov ince, in order to form a flying camp, to cover Pennsylvania and
