380 July 4, 1776 Philadelphia, July 4th, 1776, GENTLEMEN; T HE Congrefs this morning direfted us to confer with the Committees of Safe ty and Infpeftion, and the Field Officers now intown, about the proper mode of collecting the militia of this province, in order to form a flying camp, to cover Pennsylvania and New-Jerfey, from the Attacks of the Enemy, who have landed on Stattcn-Ifland, and will probably diredh their March this Way, if they Ihould imagine the Attempt on New-York too hazardous. Neceffity obliges us to difpenfe with forms, and to avail ourfelves of the advantage, which we may rea- fonably hope from your being alfembled : We, therefore, moil earneIHy requeft you immediately to colled the Forces of your feveral Counties, and march them down to Bruntwick, where the Congrefs will furniih them with prorilions, and allow them Continental pay. Men who-have the fafety of their country at heart, need no other incentive to the greateft exertions, than fuchas arifes from its danger , for which reafon, we have thought it neceflary barely to inform you of the iaft; with this addition, that the Militia of New-Jerfey are already, for the moft part, in New-York ; fo that that province will be defencelefs without your timely aid. We are Gentlemen, your moft obedient humble fervants, B. Franklin, Rost. R. Livingston,7_ _ F. Hopkinson, J. Dickinson CCommitteeof Congress; To the Committee of Aflbciators, -) at Lancafter. 1 GENTLEMAN; ' ? W E beg your moff /crious attention' Ip the contents of the within letter, and by the deftre of the Committee of Congrefs, fignify to you our approba tion thereof, and that it ie. our opinion only the four thoufand five hundred men are tneant by the Compiittee. It is hoped thofe volunteers who have engaged to lerve in theflying camp’, will marcli immediately” thb nigheft way to Brunfwick, in New-Jerfey, and that regnlftK'fiiufter-rolls will be kept by the colonels of the feve- ral battalions. * * At foon as a company is formed, it is expefted it will march without watting for the battalion. As th'ere is to be a conference between the Delegates of New- Yotk, New-Jerfey, and Pennfylvania; and the Committee of Safety, with this Committee, and the Field-Officers of the five Battalions of this city and the li berties, to-morrow morning, at the State-Houfe, at feven o’ clock, we will let Jou know the refult of their confultation. •Signed by Order of the Committee, THOMAS M'KEAN, Chairman: Philadelphia, Committee-Chamber, July 4th, 1776. To the Convention of Aflbciators, of the} Province of Pennfylvania, at Lancafter. r Committee of Congress Letter of July 4, 1776
