388 July 4, 1776 the hot spell they had experienced the last two weeks of June. Paine’s weather comments the preceding three days were as follows: July 1—"Fine showers.” July 2—“Rain’d hard. Cool’d the air much." July 3—“Cool day.” Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney Sir, Philada. July the 4th 1776 I have inclosed you a Summons directed to the Sheriff to Summon the Member for our County to meet in Assembly at Newcastle on the 22d day of this Instant which I hope you will have put into his hands as soon as possible after it Comes to Yours. I arrived in Congress (tho detained by thunder and Rain) time Enough to give my Voice in the matter of Independence. 1 It is determined by the Thirteen United Colonies with out even one disenting Colony. We have now Got through with the Whole of the declaration and Ordered it to be printed, so that You will soon have the pleasure of seeing it. Hand bills of it will be printed and Sent to the Armies, Cities, Countys, Towns &c—to be published or rather proclaimed in form. Don’t neglect to Attend Closely and Carefully to my Harvest and You’l oblige, Yours 8cc, Caesar Rodney RC (CCamarSJ). 1 The circumstances behind Rodney’s last minute appearance in Congress were described by Thomas McKean many years later as follows. “On Monday the 1st. of July the question was taken in the committee of the whole when the State of Pennsylvania (represented by seven Gentlemen then present) voted agt. it. Delaware (having then only two Representatives present) was divided; all the other States voted in favor of it. Whereupon, without delay I sent an Express (at my private expence) for your honored Uncle Caesar Rodney Esquire, the remaining member for Delaware, whom I met at the State-house door, in his boots and spurs, as the members were assembling; after a friendly salutation (without a word on the business) we went into the Hall of Congress together find found we were among the latest: proceedings immediately commenced, and after a few minutes the great question was put; when the vote for Delaware was called your uncle arose and said: As I believe the voice of my constituents and of all sensible and honest men is in favor of Independence and my own judgment concurs with them, I vote for Independence, or in words to the same effect.” McKean to Caesar A. Rodney, September 22, 1813, Burnett, Letters, 1:534. For an analysis of several conflicting accounts of Rodney’s ride to Philadelphia, see William Baskerville Hamilton, Anglo-American Law on the Frontier: Thomas Rodney b His Territorial Cases (Durham: Duke University Press, 1953), pp. 21-22. James Wilson to the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety Gentlemen Philada 4th July 1776 I beg Leave to recommend to you the following Gentlemen as of ficers of a Company in the German Regiment. 1
