July 5, 1776 389 Conrad Schneider—Captain Jacob Stadler—1st Lieutt. Jacob Foreman—2d Lieutt. George Harmony—Ensign They are recommended to me from Cumberland; and I am in formed will be able to raise a Company immediately in that County. I am, with much Esteem, Gentlemen, Your very hble Servt, James Wilson RC (NN). 1 For the creation o£ the German battalion, authorized according to a resolution of May 25, 1776, see JCC, 4:392, 5:454, 487-88. See also JCC, 5:571, 590. John Adams to Mary Palmer Miss Polly Philadelphia July 5. 1776 Your Favour of June 15, 1776 1 was handed to me, by the last Post.. . 2 I hold myself much obliged to you for your Attention to me, at this Distance, from those Scenes, in which, altho I feel myself deeply interested, yet I can neither be an Actor nor Spectator. You have given me (not withstanding all your modest Apologies) with a great deal of real Elegance and Perspicuity, a minute and circumstantial Narration of the whole Expedition to the lower Har bour against the Men of War. It is lawfull you know to flatter the Ladies a little, at least if Custom can make a Thing lawfull: but, with out availing myself in the least degree of this Licence, I can safely say that from your Letter and another from Miss Paine to her Brother, I was enabled to form a more Adequate Idea of that whole Trans action, than from all the other Accounts of it, both in News papers and private Letters which have come to my Hands. In Times as turbulent as these, commend me to the Ladies for Historiographers. The Gentlemen are too much engaged in Action. The Ladies are cooler Spectators. . . . There is a Lady at the Foot of Pens Hill, who obliges me, from Time to Time with clearer and fuller Intelligence, than I can get from a whole Committee of Gentlemen. I was a little mortified, at the unlucky Calm, which retarded the Militia from Braintree, Weymouth and Hingham. I wished that they might have had more than half the Glory of the Enterprize. However, it satisfies me to reflect, that it was not their Fault but the fault of the Wind that they had not. I will inclose to you a Declaration, in which all America is re markably united. . . ® It compleats a Revolution, which will make as good a Figure in the History of Mankind, as any that has preceeded it—provided always, that the Ladies take Care to record the Circum stances of it, for by the Experience I have had of the other Sex, they are either too lazy, or too active, to commemorate them.
