400 July 6, 1776 Secret Committee to Thomas Mumford Sir Philada. July 6th. 1776 Your favour of the 26th Ulto came duely to hand, and we readily agree that you may dispose of the Six barrells of Montserat Sulphur to Messrs. Wales & Elderkin in order to keep their Powder Mill going, but you must fix the price with them as we neither know the Cost or Value of that Sulphur not having received any such here, nor have we ever as yet any Invoice, so that we are even at a loss to know what we must charge Messrs. Wisner & Livingston for the quantity delivered to them & hope you will assist us in this point. Indeed we wish to see the Invoice soon as Convenient. We rec’d the enclosed letter for You a few days since from St Eustatia & in taking off the Cover which was directed to the Secret Committee, the Seal of your letter inside stuck to it so that both came off together, which you’l not blame us for. You’l find herein all the papers that were enclosed except Capt Palmers bills of Loading for 50 half & 240 Quarter bbls of Powder shipped by your Friends at St Eustatia for this place which we have received safe & shall duely note the same in your Account. Your said Friends appear to be attentive good Men, deserving of the Confidence you repose in them. The freight of this Powder is fixed in St Eustatia at four Dollars for every hun dred wt which is very dear, but we suppose you must pay the same for the 250 half barrells, unless the Owners of the vessell shoud agree to take less. We will hereafter give orders respecting that Powder & such other Quantitys as may arrive & are sir, Your obedt. hble servts. By order of the Secret Committee, Robt Morris, Chair Man RC (Robert J. Sudderth, Jr., Lookout Mountain, Tenn., 1974). Written by Robert Morris. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia July 7. 1776 I have this Moment folded up a Magazine, and an Evening Post 1 and sent it off, by an Express, who could not wait for me to write a single Line. It always goes to my Heart, to send off a Packett of Pamphletts and News Papers, without a Letter, but it sometimes unavoidably happens, and I suppose you had rather receive a Pam phlet or News Paper, than nothing. The Disign of our Enemy, now seems to be a powerfull Invasion
