402 July 7, 1776 RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:37-38. ’Presumably the Pennsylvania Magazine: or, American Monthly Museum; and the Pennsylvania Evening Post, July 6, 1776, which contained the first newspaper printing of the Declaration of Independence. “Adams wrote a second letter this day to Abigail, discussing “Epistolary Style” and urging her to have the children practice and master writing skills. Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:39-40. John Adams to Joseph Reed Dear Sir. Philadelphia July 7 1776 Yesterday your Favour of the 4th Instant was handed me by the Post. Am much obliged to you for it, and will give all the attention I can to its Contents. Am not certain that I know the Gentleman who you recommend by the Name of Henshaw—but I believe I do. 1 There are several very worthy Men of that Name: which of them this is, I am not clear. The Difficulty is that we dont know what vacancies there are, to which Congress may with Propriety promote such officers. If the general should recommend him to any advance ment, he would readily have it. But if any Individual Member here should move for his Promotion without a Recommendation from Head Quarters, a suspicion would arise that he did not stand well there. Does he come to New York as Lt. Coll of a Regiment of Militia, or in what Capacity. Should be obliged to you for his Christain Name, and for a Hint of any Vacant Place to which he may be promoted. Nothing in my Power shall be wanting to serve a worthy Man and a usefull officer. Your description of the Force of the Enemy and your own weakness, is indeed allarming. The Importance of the Post you hold is very great; and it must be maintained and defended at all Events. Congress have already ordered three of the Battailions at Boston, to N. York, and tomorrow will order the other two. 2 The two Pensilvania Battallions are ordered to N. York, and Measures have been taken to send all the Militia of Pensilvania, who can be armed to N. York and N. Jersey. Maryland is requested to send along their Proportion of the flying Camp. I hoped that the Militia from New England would have been with you before this Time, at least a considerable Part of them. You will Soon see Some of them I think. I have the Pleasure to agree perfectly with you, that now is the golden opportunity, for Sending into New York, Troops from every Quarter. The General may rely upon it, that no Tenderness for my own Province, nor any other Consideration shall induce me, to throw the least Impediment in the Way of any Measure that shall be proposed for that Purpose. I have even promoted the order
