July 7, 1776 403 for calling away the five Battailions from Boston, altho I know not how the numerous Fortifications there are to be garrisoned, or even the Continental Stores to be defended. There really is a Strong, an earnest, and sincere desire, here, to do every Thing to forward the Militia from every Quarter. I wish their was as laudable a Spirit to give Bounties in Money, and Land, to Men, who would inlist during the War. But there is not. Congress offers Ten dollars Bounty to inlist for three years, when New Jersey, New York, Connecticut, Mass. Bay and New Hampshire are voting six, Eight, or Ten Pounds a Man to serve for Six Months. This Economy at the Spigot, and Profusion at the Bung will ruin us. Do for Gods Sake Coll Reed convince our Southern Brethren that the Common People and even Common Soldiers are rational Crea tures, and that they can see, hear, and feel. My Heart bleeds in every Veign of it, for New York and the Army in it: But there is another Scene more affecting Still. The Army under Schuyler and Gates is an object miserable enough to affect less feeling Hearts than yours or mine. An Army, disgraced and dispirited, with repeated defeats; devoured with Vermin; with out a Second Shirt, or pair of Hose, without Beds, or Blanketts, diseased with the Small Pox, and nothing to eat, but Salt Pork and flour—incapable of succour, by fresh Recruits, because such as have had the Small Pox are not to be found, and such as have not, would only bring fresh Wretchedness among them! What shall we do? Is it possible to cleanse that army from Infection? Without this, I fear, our Hopes in that Quarter are but delusions. After all I am not disconcerted by all these Confusions, because I have expected them these twelve Months, and because I have known our affairs in a situation much worse than they are even now. A fatal Delusion, from fond Hopes of Reconciliation, enter tained, fostered and cherished, against the clearest Evidence, which is ever to be expected in such Cases, has held us back, from making such Preparations for our better Security as were in our Power. These Hopes are now extinguished, and I think that more Vigour will take Place and another winter will greatly befriend us. The golden opportunity however, is irretreivably lost. Canada is our Enemy, and We are now compleatly between two Fires. I expect an horrid Carnage upon our Frontiers, and a great Deal of Desola tion upon the Sea Coast, but I hope still that We shall come out of the Furnace of Affliction, double refined. I am with great Respect, LB (MHi). *It is probable that the person Reed had recommended in his July 4 letter to Adams, which is in the Adams Papers, MHi, was Joseph Henshaw (1727-94), Boston and Leicester, Mass., merchant and lieutenant colonel of militia. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 12:268-71.
