July 8, 1776 407 RC (DLC photostat). 1 Photostats of Trumbull’s July 3 and 5 letters to Gerry are in the Gerry Papers, DLC. 2 The Pennsylvania Evening Post of July 6, 1776, which also contained the Decla ration of Independence. “See JCC, 5:526-27. See also John Hancock to Horatio Gates, this date. John Hancock to Horatio Gates Sir, Philadelphia July 8th. 1776. The Congress being informed by Letter from General Schuyler to General Washington, which was laid before them at the Request of the former, and by your own Consent, that a Difference of Opinion had arisen between General Schuyler & yourself, with Regard to the Command of the Army in the Northern Department, they immediately took the Matter into Consideration, and have this Day come to the inclosed Resolution, which I do myself the Honour of transmitting in Obedience to their Commands. 1 You will there perceive that Congress are of Opinion, your Com mand was totally independent of Genl. Schuyler, while the Army was in Canada, but no longer, and indeed, the Terms in which the Resolve, relative to your Appointment, is conceived, seem to shew that this was their Intention. You were expressly, by that Resolve, to take the Command of the Troops in Canada, Words which strongly imply, that they had no Design to divest Genl. Schuyler of the Command while the Troops were on this Side Canada. I am however to inform you, that Congress highly approve your Resolu tion and Magnanimity that the public Service should receive no Detriment from any Difference of opinion on the Occasion. It is their most earnest Desire you will go on to act in the same Manner, and cultivate Harmony in all your military operations. A good Understanding and mutual Confidence are so essentially necessary in Order to give Success to our Measures, that I am convinced, they will take Place on all Occasions, between you. He deserves most of his Country, and will undoubtedly meet with the greatest applause, in whatever Rank or Station he may be, who renders her the most useful and signal Services. I have the Honour to be, Sir, with great Respect & Esteem, your most obed 8c very hble Ser. J°hn Hancock Presidt RC (NHi). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 'See JCC, 5:526. For accounts of this dispute between Generals Gates and Schuy ler, see Schuyler to Washington, July 1, and enclosures, in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1199-1203; and Washington to Hancock, July 4-5, and to Schuyler, July 11, 1776, in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:222-24, 257. See also JCC, 5:448; and Jona than G. Rossie, The Politics of Command in the American Revolution (Syracuse: Syracuse University Press, 1975), pp. 103-11.
