416 July 9, 1776 DNB. His Observations on the Nature of Civil Liberty had recently been reprinted by John Dunlap in Philadelphia. For citations to the several 1776 American re printings of this celebrated pamphlet, see Charles Evans, American Bibliography, 12 vols. (Chicago: Privately printed, 1903-34), nos. 15030-34. Samuel Adams to Joseph Hawley My dear Sir, Philade July 9 1776 I should sooner have acknowledgd the Receipt of your several Letters dated at Northampton & Springfield the 17th and 22d of May, 1 had I not expected that before this Time I should have had the pleasure of seeing and conversing with you—but Business here has been so pressing and important, that I have not thought it consistent with my Duty as yet to absent my self. 2 Our repeated Misfortunes in Canada have greatly chagrind every Man who wishes well to America. I dare not at present communicate to you what I take to have been the real Causes of these Disasters. Some of them indeed must be obvious to any Man who has been attentive to that Department. Our secret Enemies have found Means to sow the Seeds of Discord & Faction there and Heaven has suf- ferd the small Pox to prevail among our Troops. It is our Duty to try all Means to restore our Affairs to a good Footing but I despair of that being effected till next Winter. To be acting merely on the defensive at the Time when we should have been in full possession of that Country is mortifying indeed. The Subject is disgusting to me—I will dismiss it. 3 How is arrivd, as you have heard, with his Troops at New York. The People in this Colony & the Jerseys are in Motion and if the New England Militia joyn our Army with their usual Alertness & Spirit, I have no doubt but the Enemy will meet with a warm Reception. A few days may probably bring on an Event which will give a favorable Turn to our Affairs. The Congress has at length declared the Colonies free and in dependent States. Upon this I congratulate you, for I know your heart has long been set upon it. Much I am affraid has been lost by delaying to take this decisive Step. {It is my opinion that if it had been done Nine months ago, when) we might have been jus tified {in doing it) in the Sight of God and Man, thos[e] Months ago. If we had done it then, in my opinion Canada woud this time have been one of the united Colonies; but “Much is to be endurd for the hardness of Mens hearts.” We shall now see the Way clear to form a Confederation, contract Alliances & send Em bassadors to foreign Powers & do other Acts becoming the Char acter we have assumd. Adieu my Friend. Write to me soon. S A
