418 July 9, 1776 Delegates four Tons were Ordered to be sent immediately, on Con tinental Acct, for the use of the Militia who March out to guard the Province untill the Flying Camp is formed, or for the use of the flying Camp if not expended before they take the field. 1 I have the Pleasure to assure you Congress pay particular Attention to the Defence of New Jersey, and hitherto have denied us nothing which we have Asked for that Purpose. They look upon our Pro vince in great danger of being ravaged by the Enemy, and it is hoped you will not esteem it so far free from danger as to make your Continuing together unnecessary. It is indeed a busy Season, but we have a busy Enemy near us, and from the best intelligence Lord Howe is hourly expected to Arrive with 20,000 Troops. These with what have already arrived will make a formidable Army, and require the utmost exertion of the Middle Colonies to Oppose them. I expect the Militia of Phila. will begin to March to day—and from Accts, the Colony of Connectticut are sending forwards the strength of the Colony. I am, Sir, Your most Obedient, Humble Servt. Abra Clark RC (MeHi). ’See JCC, 5:525; and Samuel Tucker to John Hancock, July 6, 1776, in PCC, item 68, fols. 175, 177, and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:37-38. John Hancock to Jacob Duche Sir, Philada. July 8th [i.e. 9] 1776. 1 It is with the greatest Pleasure I inform you, that the Congress have been induced, from a Consideration of your Piety {8c Religion), as well as your uniform 8c zealous Attachment to the Rights of America, to appoint you their Chaplain. It is their Request, which I am commanded to signify to you, that you will attend on them every Morning at nine O’Clock. I have the Honour to be, Sir, with Respect, your most obedt. 8c very hble Sevt. J.H. Prst. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). ’According to the journals, Duchy’s appointment as chaplain of Congress was made on July 9. JCC, 5:530. Abraham Clark subsequently claimed that he was primarily responsible for this action. See Abraham Clark to James Caldwell, August 2, 1776. John Hancock to James Mease Mr. Mease, Philada. 9th July 1776 The Quarter Master Genl, having wrote to Mr DeHaven for a Number of Waggons 8c Teams, 8c he having purchas’d them, 8c they
