July 10, 1776 427 He must fit her in a very compleat manner 8c must have plenty of these kind of Stores. He is also to procure as many Seamen as he possibly can to come with him in this Brigt. in which we also pray for your assistance 8c that you will furnish with money to pay ad vance wages for Provisions and a New Suit of Sails all which we hope he will soon get Compleated with your assistance. When you have paid all charges 8c Expences relative to this Vessell, whatever ballance remains from the Sale of her Cargo you’l please to Invest in the purchase of some Brass Field Pieces, Six 8c four pounder, 8c if you can procure them, good Soldiers muskets, Gun Locks, Powder or Salt Petre, or if you cannot ship such articles, you may then In vest the said Ballance in Blankets and other Woolen Goods suitable for wear in a Cold Climate and whatever you buy, ship onboard the said Brigt. Dispatch for address of the Committee of Secret Cor respondence on Account 8c Risque of the United States of America and enclose to them an Invoice 8c bill of Loading for the same. It is necessary that Capt. Parker make dispatch in fitting the Brigt. and getting her ready for Sea 8c that you also compleat your business for her soon as you can but she is not to Sail untill Mr. Deane sends his dispatches for those are the most immediate object of the present Voyage. Therefore if Mr. Deane is not at Bourdeaux you will please to keep him well informed when the Brigt. will be ready to return 8: the Moment his dispatches come to your hands deliver them to Capt Parker with an injunction to Sail immediately for this Coast agre- able to his orders. Shou’d Mr. Deane be in Bourdeaux Capt. Parker must be directed by him entirely in all his proceedings and if Mr. Deane desires any Goods to be Shipped onboard the Dispatch they must be received onboard. In short the Captain is ordered to re ceive onboard all Goods you recommend. Therefore you’l please to Ship any you may have or that Mr Deane may order 8c inform Mr John Dani Schweighauser of Nantes that he may Ship any he has for Account of this Continent. We hope you will assist in making it known that great Wages 8c encouragement are given to Seamen in America 8c the Seamen of every Country will be alike Welcome. We shall have frequent opportunitys of addressing you 8c remain, Gentn, Your obedt Servants FC (DNA: PCC, item 37). In the hand of Robert Morris. Committee of Secret Correspondence to Peter Parker Sir Philada. July 10th 1776 The Brigt Dispatch of which you are hereby appointed Com-
