442 July 12, 1776 any state, that they would not confederate with us unless we would let them dispose of our money. Certainly if we vote equally we ought to pay equally: but the smaller states will hardly purchase the privilege at this price. That had he lived in a state where the repre sentation, originally equal, had become unequal by time & accident he might have submitted rather than disturb government: but that we should be very wrong to set out in this practice when it is in our power to establish what is right. That at the time of the Union between England and Scotland the latter had made the objection which the smaller states now do. But experience had proved that no unfairness had ever been shewn them. That their advocates had prognosticated that it would again happen as in times of old that the whale would swallow Jonas, but he thought the prediction re versed in event and that Jonas had swallowed the whale, for the Scotch had in fact got possession of the government and gave laws to the English. He reprobated the original agreement of Congress to vote by colonies, and therefore was for their voting in all cases according to the number of taxables {so far going beyond Mr. Chase’s proposition). Dr. Witherspoon opposed every alteration of the article. All men admit that a confederacy is necessary. Should the idea get abroad that there is likely to be no union among us, it will damp the minds of the people, diminish the glory of our struggle, 8c lessen it’s im portance, because it will open to our view future prospects of war 8c dissension among ourselves. If an equal vote be refused, the smaller states will become vassals to the larger; 8c all experience has shewn that the vassals 8c subjects of free states are the most enslaved. He instanced the Helots of Sparta 8c the provinces of Rome. He observed that foreign powers discovering this blemish would make it a handle for disengaging the smaller states from so unequal a confederacy. That the colonies should in fact be considered as individuals; and that as such in all disputes they should have an equal vote. That they are now collected as individuals making a bargain with each other, 8c of course had a right to vote as individuals. That in the East India company they voted by persons, 8c not by their proportion of stock. That the Belgic confederacy voted by provinces. That in ques tions of war the smaller states were as much interested as the larger, 8c therefore should vote equally; and indeed that the larger states were more likely to bring war on the confederacy, in proportion as their frontier was more extensive. He admitted that equality of repre sentation was an excellent principle, but then it must be of things which are co-ordinate; that is, of things similar 8c of the same na ture: that nothing relating to individuals could ever come before Congress; nothing but what would respect colonies. He distinguished between an incorporating 8c a federal union. The union of England was an incorporating one; yet Scotland had suffered by that union:
