July 12, 1776 445 danger may not be equally pretended? The truth is that our pro ceedings will then be consentaneous with the interests of the majority, and so they ought to be. The probability is much greater that the larger states will disagree than that they will combine. I defy the wit of man to invent a possible case or to suggest any one thing on earth which shall be for the interests of Virginia, Pennsylvania & Massa- chusets, and which will not also be for the interest of the other states. MS (DLC). In the hand of Thomas Jefferson. A continuation of Jefferson’s Notes of Proceedings in Congress, July 1-4, 1776. 1 For analysis of the notes printed in this entry, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:327-29. 2 For additional information on this debate, see John Adams’ Notes of Debate, July 30, 1776. 3 See also John Adams’ Notes of Debate, August 1, 1776. ‘See Benjamin Rush’s Notes for a Speech in Congress, August 1, 1776. Marine Committee to John Ashmead Sir Philada. July 12th 1776 The Marine Committee having considered how necessary your attendance is in the Yard taking care of the Materials, and the Frigate of which you are Clerk, think proper to request that you will not go on the proposed expedition to the Jerseys, but that you remain to do your very necessary business. 1 You May shew this to your commanding officer to whom, it is hoped, it will prove a satisfactory reason for your stay. We are sir, Your hble servts. Robt Morris Geo. Read Button Gwinnett Arthur Middleton Fras Lewis RC (CCamarSJ). In the hand of Timothy Matlack and signed by Gwinnett, Lewis, Middleton, Morris, and Read. Endorsed—“Agreed in Congress”—and signed by John Hancock. 1 Ashmead, clerk of the frigate Randolph, was a member of a company of Quaker Light Infantry which was on its way to New Jersey to join the flying camp. Clark, Naval Documents, 5:1046n.3. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings July 12.[1776] A Contract was enterd into with Button Guinet [Gwinnett], of the province of Georgia, & an order in his favor was drawn on the Treasurers for 20,000 Dlls, to be by him laid out in the produce of
