July 14, 1776 451 Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton My Dear friend, Eliza. Town July 14th. 1776. I have not had the Pleasure of a Letter from you a long Time. Yours of the 6th July to Mrs. Dayton I saw yesterday. I frequently write, but fear you do not receive them. Soon after my going to Congress at Phila. we had news of Genl. Howes Arrival at Sandy Hook, and a few days after of his Landing on Staten Island, and Surrounding it with his forces. From your feeling for your Town & family when you first reed, this News, you can form some Judgment of mine tho’ I was much nearer to them. I expected nothing less from this event, than Eliza. Town long Ob noxious to the Enemy, would be laid in Ashes, and indeed, had they come over they would have met with no Opposition as our Militia a few days before had Marched to New York by request of the Genl. Few escaped from the Island, our friend Joshua Mersereau just escaped them, and Sami. Dehart they took at the ferry, and Obliged him to bring his family back from Eliza. Town where he had sent them before. It is said they treat the people of the Island with great kindness & tenderness. I continued at Phila. till Thursday last when I returned homeward, We having first Obtained of Congress all the Assistance they could afford for our Province. Near half the Militia of Pennsyla. Chearfully offered to March to the Aid of this Province and indeed, their Ardour was such Congress was Obliged to stop part of the Militia of Phila. or the City would have been left wholly defenseless. Part of the Pennsylvanians are at Amboy, and Many on the road this way. More than 10,000 of them it is expected will in a few days be here, and are to stay till a flying Camp of 10,000 men, now raising in Pennsyla., Maryland & Delaware Counties, take their place. I was yesterday at the Point, and could see near one hundred of the Enemy Parading at Posts. They have taken up the draw bridge to keep our people from Attacking them, and keep a guard there behind a breast work made with the Planks of the bridge. We have a breast work up the road near where Israel Arnet formerly lived, extending across the road into the fields. Works is erected from the Mouth of the Creek before the Point house to the East Corner of the garden, two other works are erected &: erecting further Eastward. There is at the Point two of our Province field pieces with part of the Artillery Company, and also the Cannon taken in the Prize Ship. Two of our field pieces with 1/3 of the Artillery Company is at New Blazeing Star, with a part of the Enemy in sight across the Sound, two others of the field pieces at Newark with 1/3 of the Company to keep of[f] their fears, the only enemy in Sight. The Artillery Company from West Jersey is Stationed at Amboy with only two pieces, being all that Company had. Altho’
