452 July 14, 1776 the Enemy is in Sight at every pass to and from the Island, it is with great difficulty the Militia can be prevailed upon to stray from their farms at this busy season. It is a matter of great Surprize that the forces on the Island are Suffered to remain in quiet, where they are daily receiving Tory recruits, and An Army of near 20,000 from England is Expected hourly to Arrive to join them; and those on the Island, from the best Accounts Amount to About 10,000. A Vessel came up in the Narrows on Friday last Supposed to have Lord Howe on board from the Salute reed, from all the Shiping. If he hath arrived his Army is not far behind, which when Arrived with those on the Island will become formidable. The forces on the Island are dispersed in parties all round it, and I think might easily be dealt with. Capt McLeod said yesterday Our Generals deserved to be Damned if they did not Attack them on the Island before the reinforcements Arrived. On Friday two Men of War & some Tend ers run up the North River as far as Kings Bridge and perhaps further as they went out of Sight Notwithstanding a fire from all our works; they reed, several Shot it is said into their Hulls, and had their rigging damaged. Our Affairs to the Northward wear a bad Aspect; I am Surprized at our forces leaving Island Aux Noix as from the best intelligence reed they might easily have kept the Enemy out of the Lake, by keeping that Post, and it is said from good Authority that 3,000 could keep it against 30,000. The reasons for this Assertion are conclusive, but too long to give here. In your Letter to Mrs. Dayton you desire Elias may be sent to you, but seem to leave the matter with Mrs. Dayton. You cannot think she would willingly consent to it, and at this Time under present Circumstances, I believe you would not desire it. She Asked my Advice, and I gave it for his not going much against Elias’s in clination. The Navigation of Hudsons River now Stoped, and a passage to you almost impossible for him, at best very impracticable. Mrs. Dayton hath removed part of your goods to Springfield, and herself and Children ready to follow as danger Approaches. She is in good Spirits, thinks she can flee faster than they can pursue. As to the Plot in New York, I can inform you but little. The Mayor is Confined, One Forbes Appears to have been very Active in it, and all Centres in Governor Tryon, many have Absconded from New York; none in New Jersey are impeached, at least nothing proved Against them. Govr. Franklin is sent Prisoner to Harford in Connecticut. The Amboy Gentry are upon their parole at Trenton. Jouet at the Arrival of the Army run of[f] and hid himself at Schoolys Mountain but at request of his friends purposes to return. Mr. Chetwood put of[f] with his wife some where back, and is now it is thought, near his end by a fever Occasioned they say by the
