July 14, 1776 453 fright; he refuses to Doctor, and his wife in a state of deep Melan choly scarcely Speaking in a day. Our Declaration of Independance I dare say you have seen. A few weeks will probably determine our fate. Perfect freedom, or Abso lute Slavery. To some of us freedom or a halter. Our fates are in the hands of An Almighty God, to whom I can with pleasure confide my own; he can save us, or destroy us; his Councils are fixed and cannot be disappointed, and all his designs will be Accomplished. My most cordial respects to my Friend Mr Caldwell, to whom I mean to address all my Letters on public affairs in Conjunction with your self as it is useless to tell you both the same Story in dif ferent Letters. Your families are well. I have nothing further Neces sary to communicate, but that I am, most Affectionately yours, Abra. Clark RC (NN). Addressed: “To Elias Dayton Esquire, Colonel of a battalion of Jersey Troops, at the German Flatts.” John Hancock to Hugh Mercer Sir, Philada. July 14th. 1776. The Congress having been informed by Genl. Washington, that he had given the Command of the Flying Camp and Militia in New Jersey to you, and for that Purpose you was stationed in the Jerseys, 1 I have it in Charge from Congress to empower and direct you to march such of the Militia and Flying Camp to Brunswick, or other Places in the Jerseys, as you may, on all Occasions, judge nec essary and most conducive to the public Service;’ provided it does not interfere with any prior Direction from Genl. Washington. Four Tons of Powder were sent off to you, a few Days ago; and a large Parcel of Cartridges well balled, will be this Day forwarded to you for the Use of the Troops under your Command. Colonel Biddle, the Quarter Master Genl, has Orders to furnish all Neces saries. He will wait on you, and follow such Directions, as you may judge necessary to give him. You will please to give me the earliest Intelligence of every Oc currence by Express, that it may be laid before Congress. I most heartily wish Success to your Arms, & have the Honour to be, with much Esteem, Sir, your very hble Servt. J. H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 See JCC, 5:558; and Hancock to Washington, July 13, 1776, note 4. Hugh Mercer (c. 1725-77), a Scottish Jacobite trained as a physician at the University of Aberdeen, came to Pennsylvania around 1747. After becoming acquainted with
