456 July 14, 1776 sake. Banish your fears, all may be right. A few Weeks will discover much, I hope in our favour. God preserve you and our little ones and believe me yours most Affectionately, Geo. Read [P.S.] I expect Mr. Rogers of Maryland will carry this; if you See him treat him as my old acquaintance. I am told the 2d Frigate was launched today. Tom & Jas. Read send their love to you. RC (DeHi). 1 Although Read clearly wrote "14th May 1776” the contents of the letter indi cate that it was written on July 14. Read’s references below to the passage of two British ships up the Hudson River, the arrival of Lord Howe at the Narrows, and the launching of the frigate Delaware are to events that took place on July 12 and 13, 1776. 2 This unusual Sunday session of Congress was called on the receipt of Washing ton’s July 12 letter to Hancock. JCC, 5:558; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:264-65. ’George Ross. ‘ See also Robert Treat Paine’s Diary, July 13, 1776, note 2. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia July 15. 1776 My very deserving Friend, Mr. Gerry, setts off, tomorrow, for Boston, worn out of Health, by the Fatigues of this station. He is an excellent Man, and an active able statesman. I hope he will soon return hither. I am sure I should be glad to go with him, but I can not. I must write to have the Guard relieved. There is a most amiable, lawdable, and gallant Spirit prevailing, in these middle Colonies. The Militia turn out in great Numbers and in high Spirits, in New Jersey, Pensilvania, Maryland, and Delaware, so that We hope to resist Howe and his Mirimidons. Independence is at last unanimously agreed to in the New York Convention. You will see by the Newspapers inclosed what is going forward in Virginia, and Maryland and New Jersey. Farewell! fare well, infatuated, besotted Stepdame. I have not Time to add, more than that I receive Letters from you but seldom of late. Tomorrows Post I hope will bring me some. So I hoped of last Saturdays and last Tuesdays. Ever yours. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:49-50.
