462 July 15, 1776 tion from you. All the other enclosed Resolves, I have likewise given Orders to the proper Persons to have executed. I expect your several Letters, which are now before Congress, will receive a speedy Determination; and that I shall have the Pleasure of forwarding the Result on Tuesday, or Wednesday, at farthest. I have the Honour to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Sert. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 'For these resolves, see JCC, 5:558-59. Hancock also wrote a letter this day to William Shippen, Jr., informing him of his appointment by Congress as “Surgeon General & Director of the Hospital for the Flying Camp & Militia in New Jersey, with the pay of Four Dollars a Day.” PCC, item 12A; Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:346; and JCC, 5:562. Thomas Jefferson to Francis Eppes Dear Sir Philadelphia, July 15th, 1776. Yours of the 3d inst. came to hand to-day. 1 I wish I could be bet ter satisfied on the point of Patty’s recovery. I had not heard from her at all for two posts before, and no letter from herself now. I wish it were in my power to return by way of the Forest, as you think it will be impracticable for Mrs. Eppes to travel to the moun tains. However, it will be late in August before I can get home, and our Convention will call me down early in October. Till that time, therefore, I must defer the hope of seeing Mrs. Eppes and yourself. Admiral Howe is himself arrived at New York, and two or three vessels, supposed to be of his fleet, were coming in. The whole is expected daily. Washington’s numbers are greatly increased, but we do not know them exactly. I imagine he must have from 30 to 35,000 by this time. The enemy the other day ordered two of their men-of-war to hoist anchor and push by our batteries up the Hudson River. Both wind and tide were very fair. They passed all the batteries with ease, and, as far as is known, without receiving material damage; though there was an incessant fire kept up on them. This experi ment of theirs, I suppose, is a prelude to the passage of their whole fleet, and seems to indicate an intention of landing above New York. I imagine General Washington, finding he cannot prevent their go ing up the river, will prepare to amuse them wherever they shall go. Our army from Canada is now at Crown Point, but still one half down with the smallpox. You ask about Arnold’s behavior at the Cedars. It was this. The scoundrel, Major Butterfield, having sur rendered three hundred and ninety men, in a fort with twenty or
