July 15, 1776 463 thirty days’ provision, and ammunition enough, to about forty regu lars, one hundred Canadians, and five hundred Indians, before he had lost a single man—and Maj. Sherburne, who was coming to the relief of the fort with one hundred men, having, after bravely en gaging the enemy an hour and forty minutes, killing twenty of them and losing twelve of his own, been surrounded by them, and taken prisoners also—Gen. Arnold appeared on the opposite side of the river and prepared to attack them. His numbers I know not, but believe they were about equal to the enemy. Capt. Foster, com mander of the king’s troops, sent over a flag to him, proposing an exchange of prisoners for as many of the king’s in our posses sion, and moreover, informed Arnold that if he should attack, the Indians would put every man of the prisoners to death. Arnold refused, called a council of war, and, it being now in the night, it was determined to attack next morning. A second flag came over; he again refused, though in an excruciating situation, as he saw the enemy were in earnest about killing the prisoners. His men, too, began to be importunate for the recovery of their fellow soldiers. A third flag came, the men grew more clamorous, and Arnold, now almost raving with rage and compassion, was obliged to consent to the exchange and six days suspension of hostilities, Foster declaring he had not boats to deliver them in less time. How ever, he did deliver them so much sooner as that before the six days were expired, himself and party had fled out of all reach. Arnold then retired to Montreal. You have long before this heard of Gen. Thompson’s defeat. The truth of that matter has never appeared till lately. You will see it in the public papers. No men on earth ever behaved better than ours did. The enemy behaved dastardly. Col. Allen (who was in the engagement) assured me this day, that such was the situation of our men, half way up to the thighs in mud for several hours, that five hundred men of spirit must have taken the whole; yet the enemy were repulsed several times, and our people had time to extricate themselves and come off. It is believed the enemy suffered considerably. The above account of Arnold’s affair you may rely on, as I was one of a committee appointed to inquire into the whole of that matter, and have it from those who were in the whole transaction, and were taken prisoners. 2 My sincere affections to Mrs. Eppes, and adieu, Th. Jefferson MS not found; reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:458-60. 'For Eppes’ letter of July 3, 1776, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 15:576. “Jefferson had been appointed to a committee to consider the prisoner cartel between General Arnold and Capt. George Forster. For Jefferson’s notes on Maj. Henry Sherburne’s testimony about the Cedars affair and the committee’s June 17 report, see ibid., 1:396-404. For the committee’s -'.-vised report and resolutions approved on July 10, see JCC, 5:534-39.
