466 July 16, 1776 Post—don’t miss one for any Cause whatever. My dearest Love to you all. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:50-51. ' 1 Isaac Smith’s letter of July 8 to Adams is in Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:41^42. For Mason’s letter, see John Adams to Jonathan Mason, Jr., July 18, 1776, note 1. 2 Suspension points in MS, here and below. ’Adams enclosed the following letter which he had received from John Hancock this day. “On a Visit to Mrs. Yard this Eveng. I was inform’d by her that your Lady & Children propos’d to go into Boston, with an intention of Taking the Small Pox by Inoculation, and as the Season is warm, & the present process of Treating that Disorder, requires all the air that can possibly be had, & as any Scituation in Boston is as much Bless’d with a free air as most other, I make a Tender of my house & Garden for their use if you Choose to improve it, & by a Signification of your Consent I will write by this Express to that purport. The fruit in the Garden shall be at their Controal, & a maid Servt. & the others in the House shall afford them every Convenience that appertains to the House. It will give me pleasure to be any way instrumental, however small, in adding to their Convenience.” Ibid., p. 51. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Friend Philad. July 16, 76 There is no Necessity of my troubling you with a long Epistle at present, for my very worthy Friend and Colleague 1 who kindly takes the Charge of this will fully inform you of the State of Affairs here. He will tell you some things which I have often wishd to communi cate to you, but have not thought it prudent to commit to Writing. Our Declaration of Independance has already been attended with good Effects. It is fortunate beyond our Expectation to have the Voice of every Colony in favor of so important a Question. I inclose you the Form of a Constitution which the Convention of Virginia have agreed upon for that Colony. It came to my hand yesterday by the Post, and I spare it to you, although I have not had time to peruse it. I suppose there are other Copies in Town. Adieu. FC (NN). 1 Elbridge Gerry. John Alsop to the New York Provincial Congress Hble. Gentlemen, Philadelphia, 16th July, 1776. Yesterday our President read in Congress a resolve of your Honble. Body, dated 9th instant, in which you declare New-York a free and
