468 July 16, 1776 independent State. I can’t help saying that I was much surprized to find it come through that channel. The usual method, hitherto practised, has been for the Convention of each Colony to give their Delegates instructions to act and vote upon all and any important question. And from the last letter we were favoured with from your body, you told us that you was not competent or authorized to give us instructions on that grand question, nor have you been pleased to answer our letter of the 2d instant, any otherwise than by your said resolve, transmitted to the President. I think we were entitled to an answer. I am compelled, therefore, to declare that it is against my judg ment and inclination. As long as a door was left open for a re conciliation with Great Britain, upon honourable and just terms, I was willing and ready to render my country all the service in my power, and for which purpose I was appointed and sent to this Congress; but as you have, I presume, by that declaration closed the door of reconciliation, I must beg leave to resign my seat as a Delegate from New-York, and that I may be favoured with an answer and my dismission. 1 I have the honour to be, With esteem, gentlemen, Your most obdt. hble, servt. John Alsop Reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:536. 1 The New York Convention read Alsop’s letter on July 22 and promptly re solved “That the Convention do cheerfully accept of Mr. Alsop’s resignation of his seat in the Continental Congress, and that Mr. Alsop be furnished with a copy of this resolution.’’ Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1428-29. See also JCC, 5:560; New York Convention to the New York Delegates, July 22, 1776, in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1430-31; and Rick J. Ashton, “The Loyalist Congressmen of New York,” New- York Historical Society Quarterly 60 (1976): 102-6. John Hancock to Certain States Gentlemen, Philada. July 16th. 1776. Since I had the Honour of addressing you on the fourth of June, at which Time I transmitted sundry Resolves of Congress, requesting you to call forth your Militia, our Affairs have assumed a much more serious Complexion. If we turn our Attention towards the Northern Department, we behold an Army reduced by Sickness, and obliged to flee before an Enemy of vastly superior Force. If we cast our Eyes to Head Quarters, we see the British Army reinforced under Lord Howe, and ready to strike a Blow, which may be attended with the most fatal Consequences, if not timely resisted. The Situation of our Country at this Season, calls therefore for all the Vigour & Wisdom among us; and if we do not mean to desert her at this alarming
