472 July 16, 1776 house certainly till the last of Octr. & a chance for the winter. Our best Love to Chantilly & Stratford, & Respects to all friends in Westmoreland. 1 Yr. Afft. Bror. & friend, Francis Lightfoot Lee RC (NN). 1 Francis Lightfoot Lee also wrote a letter to Landon Carter this day in which he commented: “It gives me concern to hear that some of your Negroes have joined the Arch Devil, and my friend Mr. Carter’s favoriie servant too! But Slavery plants a Vice where a Virtue might be expected. Your government I find is at length compleated. God send it may procure internal peace and happiness to the Country." George D. Smith Autograph Letters (New York: 898 items, n.d.), item 450. Thomas Nelson to John Page Dear Page Philada July 16th 1776 I was disappointed in not receiving a line from you by yesterdays post, but I suppose your hurry of business in your new department, prevented you taking notice of me. 1 We expected to have heard something from New York yesterday, but I fear the Enemy have taken such possession of the River as to prevent any intelligence being convey’d to us. Two of the Ships of War & two Tenders pass’d our Forts on the North River in defiance of our Batteries. This we imagin’d was done as an experiment. Whether any others of them, or any Transports have follow’d we are not inform’d, not having heard from the General since the 12 Instant at night &: then the express cross’d under a strong escort. 2 It is thought that they design to surround our Army & pen them up in the City of N. York, but the General no doubt is aware of this, & will counter plot them, for should such a thing happen, there must be a surrender on our side in a few Months, as they would cut off all supplies. Our Men are in high spirits & wish ardently for an attack that they distinguish themselves from Men fighting for the hire of 4d per day. I do not think you will have any thing to apprehend in Virginia this Campaign, but from Dunmore & him you may prevent doing any thing except in the predatory way. Could you not then spare a few thousand Militia to come hither to augment the flying Camp that is to be establishd between this Colony & Maryland? They would be of infinite service. I have enclos’d several of Dr Price’s excellent Pamplets 3 to you which you will dispose of as they are directed & oblige, Your sincere friend & hbe Sert, Thos Nelson Jr RC (PHi). 1 The Virginia Convention had elected John Page to the governor’s council on June 29. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1600.
