July 17, 1776 477 petty officers and men. Provisions I wrote you about last post. I agree with you that these matters have not been properly attended to, but I by no means take any part of the charge of neglect to myself for no poor devil ever begged for alms with more earnestness than I have to get these matters settled and am still determined if possible to have every thing complete before I leave this. Two of the ships were launched here last week viz: the Randolph and Dela ware, but when they will get to sea is uncertain as they have no anchors yet. Independence was proclaimed in the army at New York last Wednesday when the leaden King in the Bowling Green was dis mounted and is by this time cast into bullets for the destruction of his tools of Tyranny. May every one of them be properly com missioned. We are daily in expectation of some grand military opera tions at New York. The Militia are all marching from this Colony. The associates are mostly gone from this City, Cols Dickenson, Cad- wallader &c at the head of their regts. No doubt in a very few days 20,000 men if not more will be embodied at New Jersey besides the army at York. This declaration has had a glorious effect—has made these Colonies all alive—all the Colonies forming governments as you’ll see by the papers. I expect there will be some interruption in the communication but hope it won’t last long. In very great haste, yours, Wm Whipple [P.S.] Please to send the enclosed paper to the North end. I have sent the play you mention to Mr Brackett. 3 Tr (DLC). 1 Langdon’s luly 1 letter to Whipple is in Clark, Naval Documents, 5:846-47. 2 Not found. 3 Langdon had asked for "the Pamphlet called the fall of British Tyranny a play.” Ibid., p. 847. John Adams to Joseph Ward Sir Philadelphia Wednesday July 17. 1776 Yesterdays Post brought me your Letter of the 8th inst. with several others containing Intelligence of a Nature very interesting to me. 1 The Prevalence of the Small Pox in Boston is an incident, which I can not but esteem fortunate for the public, altho the Stake I have in it, having all my nearest Connections among the earliest ad venturers makes me feel an Anxiety too private and particular, for the situation I am in. 2 The Small Pox is really the most formidable Enemy We have to contend with, in the whole Train—and I cannot but rejoice at the
