478 July 17, 1776 Resolution of my Countrymen to Subdue this Enemy first. It is a great Satisfaction to see that no Dangers dismay, no Difficulties dis courage, the good People of America. You ask when will America take Rank as a Nation? This Ques tion was answered before it was put, but it Seems the answer had not reached Boston. Before now you are satisfied I hope. What would you have next? Your Troops are all ordered to N. York and Crown Point. The small Pox will Stop all who have taken it, at least for some time. We have not a sufficient Number of Men at New York. I hope our Militia will go. It is a great Grief to me to find by the Returns, that no Massachusetts Militia are yet arrived at New York. I almost wish the Council would order the Regiments from Worcester, Hamp shire and Berkshire to march thither. Rank is not always proportional to Merit, and Promotion seldom keeps Pace with services. The Promotions you mention, are I hope worthy Men: but their Merits and services might perhaps have been sufficiently rewarded with fewer Steps of advancement—or there may be others, who have equally deserved. All that I can Say is that Time and Chance happens to all Men and therefore I hope yours will come sometime or other. Mine I am pretty sure never will. If you come to New York, which I hope you will, you may perhaps have a better Chance. Our Privateers have the most Skill or the most Bravery, or the best Fortune, of any in America. I hope Captn. Johnson was in a private ship. I dont like to hear that the continental Cruizers have taken so many and the Provincial Cruizers and privateers so few Prizes. Our People may as well fight for themselves as the Continent. LB (MHi). ‘An extract of Ward’s luly 8 letter to Adams, which is in the Adams Papers, MHi, is in Clark, Naval Documents, 5:969. “Adams also wrote a brief letter this day to his uncle Isaac Smith, Sr., commu nicating concern over his family’s health and the spread of smallpox in Massa chusetts. See Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:52. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philada July 17 1776 By this Express the General Assembly will receive the most earnest Recommendation of Congress to raise Sc send with all possible Speed the 2000 Men requested of them for New York above a Month ago. 1 There never was a more pressing Necessity for their Exertions than at present. Our Army in N Y consists of not more than half the number of those which we have reason to expect will in a very short
