July 17, 1776 479 Time be ready to attack them. And to this let me add that when we consider how many disaffected Men there are in that Colony, it is but little better than an Enemies Country. I am sensible this is a busy Season of the year, but I beg of you to prevail on the People to lay aside every private Concern and devote themselves to the Service of their Country. If we can gain the Advantage of the Enemy this Campaign we may promise ourselves Success against every Effort they will be able to make hereafter, But I need not multiply words. I am sure your Mind is fully impressd with the Importance of this Measure. Adieu my Friend. The Express waits. S A FC (NN). 1 See John Hancock to Certain States, July 16, 1776. For the response of the Massachusetts Council to this appeal, which reported that the state was raising 1,500 more men for the northern department, see Richard Derby to John Hancock, July 23, 1776, in PCC, item 65, 1:97; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:550. John Hancock to the Pennsylvania Convention Gentlemen, Philada. July 17th. 1776. The Congress, Previous to the Meeting of the Convention of the State of Pennsylvania, having received Information of such a Nature as induced them to appoint a Committee who are under an Injunc tion of Secrecy to make the necessary Enquiry; but as this State is mostly interested in the Subject of the Enquiry, Congress have thought proper that the Matter should be made known to a Com mittee of your Body. I have it therefore in Charge to request that you will be pleased to appoint a Comee. from your Convention to be under an Injunction of Secrecy to confer with the Committee of Congress on this important Matter. Having the Honour to be of the Committee of Congress, I should be glad to be informed of the Names of such Persons as you shall appoint on the Committee, that a Time & Place may be fixed for the Conference. 1 I have the Honour to be, with Respect, Gentlemen, your most obed. & very hbl sert. J. H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 Congress had appointed this committee on July 11 to investigate a report of a conspiracy “for liberating the prisoners &c in the gaol of Philadelphia.” JCC, 5:543. No record of any meeting between this committee and a committee of the Pennsylvania Convention has been found. However, at the request of this con gressional committee the convention did agree on July 20 to remove “common Prisoners” from the new Philadelphia jail and “give up the said new Jail to the Congress for the use of the State Prisoners.” See JCC, 5:572, 594; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:7.
