484 July I®, 1776 of 6th June,” but no such letter has been found. Sec Chase to Benedict Arnold, August 7, 1776. John Hancock to the Pennsylvania Convention Gentlemen, Philada. July 18. 1776. I have it in Charge from Congress to inform you that they have come to a Resolution of raising a Battalion in the Counties of Westmoreland & Bedford Pennsylvania for the Defence of the West ern Parts of that State. I am therefore to request you will immediately recommend proper Persons to Congress for Field Officers of said Battalion. 1 I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed. & very hble Sert J. H. Prest LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). ’See JCC, 5:589-90. Congress approved the convention’s nominees for field offi cers for this battalion on July 20. JCC, 5:596; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:7. John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Sir Philada. July 18. 1776 In Consequence of the Resolve of Congress respecting the Petition of Capt Benedict, I am most earnestly to Recommend to you to give Attention to the Subject matter of it, & to Desire that the proper payments may be made so far as they appear just & well sup ported or that the objections to the Adjustment of the Accots. as set forth by the Petitioner, may be explicitly Stated to Congress, to prevent any Prejudice arising to the general Service. 1 I am with respect Sir, Your very hume Sert. J H Pt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). ’ See JCC, 5:566. Schuyler subsequently informed Hancock: “Captain Benedict’s pay was stopped in consequence of an order from the honourable Commissioners of Congress, before whom, it seems, he had been charged with some malpractices in Canada.” Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:856. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada July 18, 1776 Mr Griffin delivered me your letter of the 4th [i.e. 15th] with the packets, which I have laid before Congress. 1 No resolution is taken in consequence thereof, nor has any thing new Occurred since my last, except the Inclos’d Resolves. 2 I have the honour to be, Sr„ your obedt. humble Servt. John Hancock Presidt.
