July 20, 1776 493 It is a long Time, since I heard from her or indeed any Thing concerning her only that she was determined to have the Distemper, with all my Children. How do you think I feel? supposing that my Wife and Children are all sick, of the small Pox, myself unable to see them, or hear from them. And all this in Addition to sev eral other Cares, public and private, which alone would be rather troublesome? However, I will not be dejected. Hope springs eternal in my Breast, and keeps me up, above all Difficulties, hitherto. I am, sincerely Yours. LB (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:54-55. 1 Suspension points in MS. Samuel Adams to Samuel Cooper My dear sir, Philade July 20 1776 I have the Pleasure of informing you, that the Continental Troops under the Command of Major Genl Lee, have tryumphd over the British Forces in South Carolina, the particulars of which you have in the inclosd Paper. 1 I trust this Blow has given so great a Check to the Power of the Enemy as to prevent their doing us any material Injury in that part of America. We look towards New York, and earnestly pray that God would order a decisive Event in our Favor there. You must have earlier Intelligence from time to time of the Circumstances of our Affairs in that Depart ment than you can have from this place. Yesterday Circular Letters with inclosd Declarations from Lord Howe to the late Governors of New Jersey & the Colonies Southward as far as Georgia, were laid before Congress. As they were orderd to be publishd, I have the opportunity of transmitting a printed Copy of them for your Amusement. 2 There were also Letters from London to pri vate Persons probably procured if not dictated by the British Ministry and written with a manifest Intention to form a Party here in favor of his Lordship, to induce People to believe that he is a cordial Friend to America, and that he is empowered to offer Terms of Accommodation acceptable to the Colonists. But it is now too late for that insidious Court to play such Tricks with any reasonable Hopes of Success. The American States have declard themselves no longer the Subjects of the British King. But if they had remaind such, the Budget is now opened to the World, and the People see with their own Eyes, with how much Magnanimity the Prince offers them Pardon on Condition that they will sub mit to be his abject Slaves. I was informd in a Letter I reed from London last March, that
