494 July 20, 1776 this very Nobleman declind to accept the Commission until he should be vested with Authority to offer to us honorable Terms— that he made a Merit of it—And yet he now comes with Terms disgraceful to human Nature. If he is a good kind of Man, as these Letters import, I am mistaken if he is not weak & ductile. He has always voted, as I am told, in favor of the Kings Measures in Parliament, and at the same time professd himself a Friend to the Liberties of America! He seems to me, either never to have had any good Principles at all, or not to have had Presence of Mind openly and uniformly to avow them. I have an Anecdote which I will communicate to you at another Time. At present I have not Leisure. Pray let me have a Letter from you soon. You cannot do me a greater Act of Kindness or more substantially serve me than by writing often. I am affectionately, Your Friend, S A [P.S.] Will you be kind enough to let my Family know that I am in health. I wish you wd present my most respectful Compts to my very venerable Friend Dr C—y. 3 I hope the worthy old Gentleman is yet in Health 8c Spirits. FC (NN). 1 Probably the broadside printed this day containing extracts of two letters de scribing the attack on Sullivan's Island, a photocopy of which is in Clark, Naval Documents, 5:1161. 2 See John Hancock to George Washington, July 18, 1776. 8 Undoubtedly Charles Chauncy. Board of War to George Washington Sir War Office July 20th. 1776 I have it in Direction from the Board of War to request your Excellency would give them your Advice on the enclosed Ap plication from Mr William Goddard whom as well as every Person qualified to fill the several Stations in the Army they would wish to provide for consistent with Regularity 8c the Good of the Ser vice. You will perceive that Mr Goddard applies for a Lieut Colonelcy which depends on the Removal of several Officers into superior Stations 8c in his Opinion these removals should be made according to the Precedence of the Officers considered with Re lation to the whole Army. Whether Vacancies should be filled colonially or continentally is a Matter which has not yet been settled 8c about which there are various Opinions; 8c whether, in the particular Cases pointed out by Mr Goddard, it is expedient to make the Arrangements mentioned in his Letter to the Board,
