July 20, 1776 497 little Poll, & Mrs. Darnall. Remember me to all friends. I am, yr. most affectionate Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton RC (MdHi). ‘Carroll had written to his father on July 5 explaining his plans for attending Congress. “Contrary to my expectation I am appointed a Deputy to Congress, and much against my inclination I find myself obliged to set off for Philadelphia in a week at farthest. Mr. Johnson cant go, his wife is nigh her time. Mrs. Chase is too ill to permit Chase to go. Mr. Tilghman is prevented by something or other. So I am reduced to the necessity of being there very soon as we have now no Repre sentation, Mr. Rogers being left out of the appointment.” Charles Carroll Papers, MdHi. 2 Carroll had been added to the Board of War on July 18. JCC, 5:575. 3 A reference to the Pennsylvania Ledger: or the Virginia, Maryland, Pennsyl vania, ir New Jersey Weekly Advertiser, printed by James Humphreys, Jr. William Ellery to Ezra Stiles? [July 20, 1776] i Ld. Howe is arrived in the Eagle Man o’War. The Reinforcmt is not arrived & I hope will never arrive. His Ldship sent a Flag o’ truce a few days ago with Letters to Gen. Washington directed “to George Washington Esq.” which were not received because his proper Title was not given him: since that some others have been sent to him with a similar Superscription & were for the same Reason not received. After this a flag was sent to Amboy with Letters to all the late Governors So. of N. York inclosg written Declarations con taining his & his Brother’s (Genl Howe) appointmt as Commissioners to receive the Submission of the Colonies or private Persons & grant Pardons agreeable to the late act of the Brit. Parliament, and a number of Letters principally from Friends in London to Friends here placing the Character of the Howes in the most amiable point of View, &: recommending Reconciliation with G. Britain. These Letters were all sent by the commanding Officer at Amboy to G. Washington, & were transmitted by him to Congress, and were opened &: read, that part of them, I mean which related to our Affairs. Among the Letters were some to Dr Franklin, one to the Farmer, and one to Mr Stockton. Dr Franklin was not in Congress when the Letters were bro’t in, but was sent for. When he entered, his Letters were delivered to him sealed. He opened them, looked over them, and handed them to the President desiring him to read them. They were accordingly read to Congress & contained much the same Sentiments with those to Friends, as did that to Mr Stockton, who is a Member of Congress, and who was treated and behaved in the same manner that Dr Franklin did. As the Farmer is in the Jersey at the Head of his Battalion, his Letter is kept sealed by the President until he shall return & receive it in Congress. The Letters
