July 21, 1776 505 greater danger to their Persons and Property from Toryism than Whiggism, the same Avarice and Pusillanimity will make them Whiggs. A Treason Law is in Politicks like the Article for Shooting upon the Spot, a Soldier who shall turn his back. It turns a Mans Cowardice and Timidity into Heroism, because it places greater danger behind his back than before his Face. While you are attending to military Matters, dont forget Salt Petre, Sulphur, Powder, Flints, Lead, Cannon, Mortars. It grieves me to hear that your People have a Prejudice against liberal Education. There is a Spice of this every where. But Liberty has no Enemy more dangerous than such a Prejudice. It is your Business, my Friend, as a Statesman to soften and eradicate this Prejudice. The surest Mode of doing it is to perswade Gentlemen of Education to lay aside Some of their Airs, of Scorn, Vanity and Pride, which it is a certain Truth that they Sometimes indulge themselves in. Gentlemen cannot expect the Confidence of the com mon People if they treat them ill, or refuse hautily to comply with some of their favorite Notions which may often be most obligingly done, without the least deviation from Honour or Virtue. Your Delegates behave very well: but I wish for you among them. I think however, that you judged wisely in continuing in Convention —where I believe you have been able to do more good, than you could have done here. I should be obliged to you for a Line now and then. Mr. S. Adams reed, your Letter from Bristol. 2 You will See the new Delegates for Pensilvania. What is the Cause, that Mr Dickinson never can main tain his Popularity for more than two or three years together, as they tell me has ever been the Case! He may have a good Heart, and certainly is very ready with his Pen, and has a great deal of Learning, but his Head is not very long, nor clear. I am LB (MHi). 1 Sergeant sent Adams news of the latest political developments in New lersey in his luly 19 letter. “I am told You are alarmed at Philada. with the last clause in our charter. That & another respecting Judges was hard fought; especially that of Reconciliation, upon a Motion to defer printing the Copy ’till it could be reconsidered. ‘‘However we have formally ratified Independency & assumed the Stile of the Convention of the State of New Jersey—this very unanimously, & the Votes go down by this Express to the printer. "We are mending very fast here. East Jersey were always firm; West Jersey will now move with Vigour. The Tories in some parts disturbed us, but they have hurt us more by impeding the Business of the Convention & harassing with an Infinity of Hearings. But for this we have provided a Remedy by our Ordinance for trying Treasons, Seditions & Counterfeitings. And now we shall apply our chief Attention to Military Matters, for which End we remove to Brunswick on Monday, after delaying it too long.” Adams Papers, MHi. 2 See Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton, July 4, 1776, note.
