512 July 21, 1776 Line. 3 I mean an oppinion that it is the duty of every Individual to Act his part in whatever Station his Country may Call him to, in times of difficulty, danger & distress. Whilst I think this a duty I must submit, altho the Councils of America have taken a different course from my Judgements & wishes. I think an individual that declines the Service of his Country because its Councils are not conformable to his Ideas, makes but a bad Subject; a good one will follow if he cannot lead. Untill the good News from Carolina raised our Spirits, they were constantly depressed by every Account We received from the North ern Army. Such scenes of mismanagement, misconduct and Ill success as have been exhibited in that quarter ever since the loss of the Brave Montgomery have no paralei. There is a Committee of Con gress appointed to inquire into the Causes of our Ill Success in Canada. Probably it may be no difficulty to ascertain the cause in a general point of light, but it may not be easy to saddle individuals with their just share of reproach for it seems to me that every officer & other person that has been connected with our operations in that Country have on their return given different 8c contradictory Ac counts, some blaming one party, some another, but all Complaining of mismanagement in every department. I don’t know Genl. Schuyler personally but he holds an able pen and his clear intelligent manner of writing, with an apparent Anxiety expressed in all his letters for the good of the Service had gained my entire Confidence and I cannot help feeling a reluctance to receive unfavourable impressions, yet if that Man is sacrificing the interest of America to his ambition or avarice he must be a Wretch indeed. I hope this will not prove to be his Case, but at any rate as he is more of a Commissary 8c Quarter Master than a General, it may probably be best to shift his Station that Gates may be left at liberty to put our affairs at the Lakes in the best posture that can be. I hope you are or will be properly Strengthened and Supported at New York. For my own part I dont like your situation there, but think you had better give up that City to the Enemy than let them get behind 8c pen you in there, as they were cooped in Boston last year. However, I dont pretend to any Judgement in this matter nor to have Considered the Subject. My Confidence in the abilities of Genl. Washington is entire. His Life is the most Valuable in America 8c whenever an engagement happens I sincerely hope he will think how much depends on it and guard it accordingly. The Public papers will Anounce to you the New appointments 8c Changes here, and as I have not much unemployed time I am always ready to spare the use of my pen. This being Sunday morning 8c in the Country I have spun out this letter to a length not common with me nowadays. I beg my Compts to the Genl. I dined in Company with Mrs. Washington yesterday at Colo Harrisons 8c expect her here at dinner
