July 22, 1776 515 ing an underwater “Machine” to attack British ships, see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 4:650-52, 654, for proposals he had made to the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety in September 1775. The result of Belton’s application to Washington is not known. It appears that the timing of the proposal was unfortunate for Belton because David Bushnell, with a submarine that had been tested, was already preparing such an attack. For an account of the unsuccessful attempt, on September 6, 1776, by Bushnell’s submarine Turtle to afix a mine to the hull of Lord Howe’s flagship Eagle, see Frederick Wagner, Submarine Fighter of the American Revolution, the Story of David Bushnell (New York: Dodd, Mead & Co., 1963), pp. 50-65. See also Clark, Naval Documents, 6:1499-1511. John Hancock to Samuel Griffin Sir, Philadelphia July 22d. 1776. The Congress, in Consideration of your Merit, and uniform At tachment to the Liberties of the American States, have been pleased to appoint you, Deputy Adjutant Genl, to the Flying-Camp, with the Rank of Colonel. 1 I enclose your Commission with the greatest Pleasure; being fully persuaded, your Abilities, and Attention, will enable you to dis charge the Duties of your Department with Reputation to yourself, & Advantage to your Country. As it is necessary this important Department should be immedi ately filled, you will please to repair, for that Purpose, to the Flying Camp, as soon as possible, and put yourself under the Direction of the Commanding Officer in that Quarter. I Am, Sr., your most Obedt. & very Hble Servt. John Hancock Prest. RC (InU). In a clerical hand and signed by Hancock. Addressed: "Colo. Griffen, Depy. Adjt. Genii, to the Flying Camp.” 'See JCC, 5:592. John Hancock to Charles Lee Sir, Philada. July 22d. 1776. Your Favour of the 2d Inst, containing the very agreeable Intelli gence of the Success of the American Army under your Command, I had the Honour of receiving, and immediately laid the same before Congress. 1 It affords me the greatest Pleasure to convey to you, by their Order, the most valuable Tribute which a free People can ever bestow, or a generous Mind wish to receive, the just Tribute of Gratitude for rendering important Services to an oppressed Country. The same enlarged Mind, and distinguished Ardor in the Cause of Freedom, that taught you to despise the Prejudices which have
