518 July 22, 1776 Samuel Huntington to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir Philadelphia 22d July 1776 This will be handed you by Mr Thomas Bedwell the person who has Contracted to manufacture Sulphur at Middletown. He is now on his way for that place, & expects a small box or two containing necessary articles for carrying on his business will soon be Sent for ward by Land from hence to New York. I am to desire you in his behalf to point him to Some Suitable person who will receive those boxes at N York & Immediately forward them to New Haven, or Middletown by water if it may be done with safety; it being of Importance to the public they should be forwarded as soon as possible. Mr Bedwell being a perfect Stranger at York & the peculiar Situation of that place at present is my only excuse for giving you this trouble in the multiplicity of your business. Give me leave to Congratulate you on the Success of American arms at S. Carolina & be so kind as to advise me of any material Occurrences as often as is convenient. Be assured I am with Esteem &: Consideration, your Humble Servant, Sami Huntington RC (CtHi). Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council Gentlemen, Philad. 22 July 1776 The five thousand Dollars granted by Congress for raising the four German Companies in our Province have been paid into our Hands and retained by us for the Purpose of exchanging it for our Maryland Convention Money and by this means to give our Currency Credit & Circulation here. 1 Had we not taken this Measure our Emissions would have been useless here & the Commercial Connection between this & our Province would have been greatly if not totally obstructed. [We] had exchanged the whole Sum with the merchants & Shop keepers and we have advanced as per Account enclosed. Mr. Hughes having obtd. a large Sum of Continental Money he exchanged with us as far as we had our Convention Currency in our Hands. 2 This gives us a fresh fund to keep up the Credit of our Money here. Youll be pleased to advise us whether this Measure of ours meets with your approbation. If not we will remit the whole immediately to you. Capt. Stricker being appointed Lt. Col. of the German Battalion and being desirous to proceed immediately to Frederick County to forward with all Expedition the raising of the Companies, we thought proper to advance him 1520 Dollars of the Sum appropri ated for that Purpose; and we also have taken the Liberty of ad-
