524 July 23, 1776 has obliged me for some time past to make an excursion or two into the Country. I propose to return to North Carolina shortly where I mean to retire from public business for a month or two. I have laid your accounts before the marine Committee and shall see that they are properly setled. I have not seen the person in whose favour you drew, and your Brother is not in Town. To whom must the money be paid? I do not hear of any person that has been recommended as Lieutenant for the Ship you are building, nor have I as yet received your recommendations. Please to send me the Names of Three Gentlemen in the order that you 8c Capt. Nicholson would wish them to stand. I have mentioned Doctor Budd to the Committee. He is not yet appointed. I have no doubt but he will be, at the same time the Lieutenants are appointed. 2 I am with much respect, Dr Sir, your mo. Obed hum Sert, Joseph Hewes RC (MdHi). 1 On the previous day Samuel Hughes had written to Purviancc: “I have con tracted with Congress for 1000 tons of Cannon at £36.10.0 to be delivered again the 1st January 1778.” Clark, Naval Documents, 5:1182. 2 On this point, see also the extract from Purviance’s July 27 letter to Hewes, ibid., pp. 1246-47. Francis Hopkinson to Samuel Tucker? Sir, 1 Philada. 23d July 1776 I beg leave to submit to the Consideration of your House the Propriety of passing an Ordinance for the Regulation of Elections in our Province. What I have principally in View is the collecting of Votes by Ballot only, and providing effectual Means for the Prevention of Fraud in Elections. This is undoubtedly the most equitable way of ascertaining the Choice of the People, and I am confident would be very acceptable to our Constituents. Elections are now of greater Importance, if possible, than heretofore; because by your late excellent Constitution the Source of all Government originates with the People at large. I thought it my Duty to suggest this Hint & hope it will be deemed worthy the attention of the House. I have further to request that the House would be so good as to furnish their Delegates with printed Copies of your new Constitu tion, & with such other Ordinances & Regulations as you may pass from Time to Time. We should likewise be glad of a Copy of that part of your Minutes which ascertains what Number of Delegates shall represent the Province in Congress. I am told you have made one Delegate sufficient for this Purpose; but as I have no good Authority for this opinion & was the other Day the only member from Jersey attending in Congress, I was in great Doubt as to the Propriety of giving my vote. 2
