526 July 23, 1776 MS not found; reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:472-73. 1 See John Hancock to Andrew Lewis, July 22, 1776. Francis Lewis to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr. Dear Sir, Phila 23d July 1776 By Order of Congress I am directed to transmit you the inclosed four drafts upon Persons in Albany for Nineteen Hundred & One pounds twelve Shillings &: 3d New York Currancy. When honoured please to furnish me with a Certificate of your receiveing the amount that I may be enabled to receive the money here, and you’l please to Account with Congress for the same. I am respectfully, Sir Your very Humble Servt. Frans Lewis [P.S.] Inclosed you have Letters of advice. RC (CtHi). Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentlemen Philadelphia July 23rd 1776 Yesterdays Post brought Us your Letter of the 19th Inst. 1 The Copies of the Letters from Colonels Barnes and Jordan You omitted to enclose. 2 We hope the Necessity of recalling the Captains Thomas and Hindman will soon be removed, and that they will be permitted to march to the flying Camp as soon as possible. It is of the last Consequence to collect a sufficient force to oppose the British Army which may be hourly expected at Staten Island. General Washington has not above 15,000 Troops. Two Battalions of the Virginia Regu lars are ordered to N York. Four Battalions in this province and two more in New Jersey are ordered to reinforce the flying Camp. We agree with You that it will be useless to send Men without arms. We have had no opportunity to consult Congress relative to the Subsistance of the Men during the Time they are collecting. We doubt not the Expence will be continental. If they should be em ployed on your Works it would contribute to their Health, & defray the Expence of provisions. A Man who professes to be an Adept in the Refining Sulphur has applied to Us & enclosed are his Terms. We are ignorant whether any Quantity of Sulphur has been discovered in our Colony, & do not know whether You want such a Man.
