July 23, 1776 529 mittee of inspection. The Audience is truly respectable. Dr. Franklin alone is eno to confound with his presence a thousand such men as myself. I hope however in a little time to experience the same freedom &: confidence in speaking that I Observe in other members. I find even our illustrious body is marked with features of human nature. We can talk nonsense now & then as well as our neighbours. This reconciles me to myself. I wish you would return with your Papa the latter end of this, or the beginning of next week. I cannot support the burden of public & private business which now lays upon my Shoulders with out you. You Shall go to Morven Again with your Papa when he goes to take charge of the governmt. of New Jersey an event which all parties say is inevitable. Think my love how long our house must be left without a head in my necessary attendance upon Con gress. Wm fell asleep as usual this evening—Betsey walked out—& I was Obliged to wait near an hour before I could go out to visit a patient—and at last got one of the neighbours to watch the door. My business suffers from the want of you. My prentices are young & Betsey too much out of the way to give answers. Do come home as soon as possible, or I tremble at the consequences. I languish for want of company. All our neighbours &: friends you know are in the country or the camp. I shall execute all your commissions. God bless you! How I long to tell you how much I love you. I shall have a regiment of prentices, having had an application this day from a lad in the Jerseys—but the Jews house in the alley will make an excellent barrack for them. I am pleased with taking Johney Pintard into the house. I suppose you told him the fee was 100 guineas. This Sum with what we have by us, &: what I expect soon to receive will enable us to realize our money in a house or a plantation. It is impossible now to put money out to interest. Heaven requires only the heart. I was willing to be poor, that my country might be free. The latter I hope will be granted, and contrary even to my wishes I find I am growing rich. My Attendance in Congress does not hurt my business having as much to do as ever. My wages in Congress are 20/ per day. Good night my charming Girl. I shall close my letter in the morning. Wednesday morning. Have just read in the paper a list of the committee of Safety. A majority of them are good men. Cannon & Matlack are among them!!! Much love to every body. Mama must part with you. The condi tion of this Obligation remember is that you are to pay another visit for a week, or two next month. Yours my dearest, B Rush P.S. No letter from James since he went away.
