July 24, 1776 533 laid aside. He practices with as much success and Reputation as any Man. 2 I am much grieved and a little vexed at your Refusal of a Seat on a certain Bench. Is another appointed? Who is it? Before now you have the Result of our Proceedings the Beginning of this Month. A Confederation will follow very soon and other mighty Matters. Our Force is not Sufficient at New York. Have Suffered much Pain, in looking over the Returns, to see no Massachusetts Militia at N. York. Send them along, for the Lands sake. Let Us drubb Howe, and then We shall do very well. Much depends upon that. I am not much concerned, about Burgoine. He will not get over the Lakes this year. If he does he will be worse off. I rejoice at the Spread of the Small Pox, on another Account. Having had the Small Pox was the Merit which originally recom mended me to this lofty Station. This Merit is now likely to be common enough, and I shall Stand a Chance to be relieved. Let some others come here, and see the Beauties and Sublimities of a Continental Congress. I will stay no longer. A Ride to Philadelphia, after the Small Pox, will contribute prodigiously to the Restoration of your Health. 3 I am &c RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 'Warren’s July 10 letter to Adams is in the Warren-Adams Letters, 1:258-60. 2 See Adams to Abigail Adams, July 23, 1776, note 1. 3 This day Adams also wrote a brief letter to Thomas Cushing, Suffolk County probate judge, declining Cushing’s request to serve as the executor of the will of Josiah Quincy, Jr. Both Cushing’s July 15 letter to Adams and the letterbook copy of Adams’ response are in the Adams Papers, MHi. John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Sir, Philada. July 24th. 1776. The enclosed Resolves, which I do myself the Honour of trans mitting, are so explicit, that I need only refer your Attention to them. The Congress are extremely concerned to find there should be a Necessity of recommending Harmony to the officers and Troops of different States under your Command. At a Time like this, when the greatest Confidence is so essentially required, Nothing can show greater Weakness or Wickedness than to throw provincial Reflections on one another, which must have a direct Tendency to impede the public Service, and to weaken the Union of the American States. I am therefore to request, you will discountinance and suppress, by every Means in your Power, such ungenerous & base Practices, and
