534 July 24, 1776 promote Discipline, Order, and Zeal in the Army as much as possible. 1 The Commissioners appointed to audit the Accounts of the Army in the Northern Department, have been with me. They are preparing to set out immediately, and I expect, will be in New York in a few Days. 2 The Congress having empowered the Commander in Chief in each Department to negotiate an Exchange of Prisoners, you will please to conduct the Business agreably to the enclosed System. 3 In Consequence of a Flag from Lord Howe with a Letter directed to George Washington Esqr which he declined receiving as an im proper Direction considering his Rank &: Station, the Congress came to a Resolution, not only expressing their approbation of his Con duct, but ordering for the future, that no Commander in Chief, or other the Commanders of the American Army, should receive any Letters from the Enemy, but such as are directed to them in the Characters they sustain. 4 You will please to enquire into the Complaints of the Soldiers as soon as possible; and give strict Orders, that the Goods furnished them, shall not be charged at a higher Price, than the first Cost of them, and an Allowance of 5 per Cent for Charges. I have the Honour to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem & Re spect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Sert. J. H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “Genl. Schuyler, Albany—or elsewhere.” 1 Congress passed this resolve “recommending Harmony” on July 19 after learn ing of the opposition among many of General Schuyler’s officers—especially those from New England—to the July 7 decision of a council of war of the northern army to abandon Crown Point and pull back to Ticonderoga, but this was only the latest in a long series of disputes between officers and soldiers from different states under Schuyler’s command. See JCC, 5:575, 591; Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:232- 35, 650-51; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:289-97, 302-7. See also Jona than G. Rossie, The Politics of Command in the American Revolution (Syracuse: Syracuse University Press, 1975), chaps. 4 and 7. For an account of Schuyler’s defi ciencies from the perspective of a Massachusetts delegate, see Elbridge Gerry to John Adams and Samuel Adams, July 21, 1776. Hancock also sent Schuyler an other July 19 resolve about curbing the exorbitant costs of supplies for his men as well as a resolve of an earlier date "prohibiting any officer from holding more offices than one.” 2 See JCC, 5:564-65. 3 See JCC, 5:599. ‘ See JCC, 5:567. John Hancock to the Governor of South Carolina and the Convention of Georgia Sir, Philada. July 24th. 1776. The Congress being of opinion, that the Service of the United
