July 24, 1776 537 are only defending their Just rights and Liberties and have com mitted no Offence they have nothing to ask pardon for, consequently cannot negotiate with his Lordship. No Late accounts from England or France. My Compliments to your Family. I Am with much respect, Dear Sir, your mo. Obed Servt, Joseph Hewes N.B. Mr. Hooper came to Town last evening. I have not yet seen him. RC (PHi). Benjamin Rush to Benjamin Franklin Wednesday, 3 oClock [July 24-August 7? 1776] 1 Dr. Rush begs leave to inform Dr. Franklin that the members of the Canadian Committee will wait upon him this afternoon at 6 oClock at his own house. RC (PPAmP). In the hand of Benjamin Rush. J This undated note was obviously written after the appointment of “the com mittee on sundry Canadian petitioners” and before the submission of its report on August 10, 1776. The date the committee was appointed is not known, because the entry in Secretary Thomson’s manuscript journal pertaining to its appointment was erased and amended after it was originally written. That entry appears under the date July 17, the day a petition from “Jean Baptiste de Vidal, of Canada,” was presented to Congress and referred to committee, but examination of Thomson’s manuscript reveals that Congress subsequently redirected Vidal’s petition from the committee originally indicated to a new “committee of five.” Since Rush did not attend Congress until July 22 and since the names of the committee members were later written into the journal with a different pen and a slightly bolder stroke than the rest of the July 17 entry, it seems clear that the committee was appointed no earlier than the 22d. Therefore this note must have been written on July 24, 31, or August 7, one of three Wednesdays that fell between Rush’s appointment to the committee and the submission of its report to Congress. See JCC, 5:572, 645-46; and PCC, item 1, 3:143. Although Rush’s note contains no information on the subjects discussed by the committee with Franklin, it does provide a glimpse into the manner in which committees of Congress conducted business after hours and a reminder that the journals must occasionally be studied with care to resolve apparent anomalies that survive in the printed texts. Willing, Morris & Co. to William Bingham Sir Philada. July 24th. 1776 We were much Concerned to find you were so long detained at Cape May, but as you did at last escape clear of the Men of Warr on this Coast, we hope you will arrive safe at Your destined Port and
