540 July 25, 1776 John Adams to John Avery Sir Philadelphia July 25. 1776 I find myself under a Necessity of applying to the Honourable the general Court for Leave to return home. 1 I have attended here, so long and so constantly, that I feel myself necessitated to ask this Favour, on Account of my Health, as well as on many other Accounts. I beg Leave to propose to the Honourable Court an Alteration in their Plan of Delegation in Congress, which, it appears to me, would be more agreable to the Health, and Convenience of the Members and much more conducive to the public Good, than the present. 2 No Gentleman can possibly attend to an incessant Round of thinking, Speaking, and writing, upon the most intricate, as well as important Concerns of human Society, from one End of the Year to another, without Injury both to his mental and bodily Strength. I would therefore humbly propose, that the Honourable Court would be pleased to appoint Nine Members to attend in Congress, Three or five at a Time. In this Case, four, or Six, might be at home, at a Time, and every Member might be relieved, once in three or four Months. In this Way, you would always have Members in Congress who would have in their Minds, a compleat Chain of the Proceed ings here as well as in the General Court, both Kinds of which Knowledge are necessary for a proper Conduct here. In this Way, the Lives and Health, and indeed the sound Minds of the Delegates here, would be in less Danger than they are at present, and in my humble opinion the public Business would be much better done. This Proposal, however, is only Submitted to the Consideration of that Honourable Body, whose Sole Right it is to judge of it. For myself, I must intreat the General Court to give me Leave to resign, and immediately to appoint some other Gentleman in my Room. The Consideration of my own Health, and the Circumstances of my Family and private Affairs would have little Weight with me, if the Sacrifice of these was necessary for the Public: But it is not, because those Parts of the Business of Congress, for which (if for any) I have my Qualifications, being now nearly compleated, and the Business that remains, being chiefly military and commercial, of which I know very little, there are Multitudes of Gentlemen in the Province, much fitter for the public Service here than I am. With great Respect to the General Court, I am, sir, your most obedient servant, John Adams. RC (M-Ar). Addressed: “The Deputy Secretary.” 1 Adams did not leave for home until October 13, 1776; and he remained a mem ber of Congress until his appointment as a commissioner to France on November 28, 1777. Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:251; JCC, 9:946-47. “Adams’ plan to rearrange the Massachusetts delegation in Congress arrived in Boston during the general court’s August adjournment. When the court returned
