544 July 25, 1776 made to the application and to answer the arguments which had been advanced against it. We observed that this property should be looked upon as belong ing to the King of Great Britain and not to the East India Company, as the latter had been divested of it, both by the seizure which the Custom House officers had made of it and by the indemnification of the Parliament, that the Congress had therefore no more right to apply this tea to the use of the Continent at large than they had to dispose of the cannon in our forts or the Crown lands within the limits of the Colony. But that, if it was the East India Company’s property, they had occasioned such an expence to the State of Caro lina as to justify them fully in the seizures. That it would be re pugnant to the principles of justice to insist that this tea should be sold for the benefit of those whose property had been, or might be, seized in England in exclusion of those whose property had been seized in America, and that it would be impracticable to bring every species of loss into one common account. That the seizure of property had been a common misfortune of which, as well as of public expences, we have had our full propor tion, and that therefore it would be injurious to our State not to be permitted to make use of the advantage in this instance which the possession of the tea had given. It was confessed that we had a right to sell it if we chose and apply the profits as we pleased, but as we had asked the opinion of the House upon the subject, we should now be governed by the disposition which they should think proper to make, and that they should take time to consider of it. The Dele gates, being by this time fully convinced that there were many in the House who wished to dispose of it in a manner injurious to the interest and the right of our State, agreed to withdraw the motion for which they obtained the leave of Congress, and we now, with one voice, advise you to recommend to your Assembly immediately to sell the same and apply the profits thereof to Colonial purposes. Indeed we were not a little surprized at your requesting us to lay the same before Congress, and we hope that you will determine for yourselves in future in all causes where the concern is of a Provincial and not of a Continental nature. We are, with regard, your Excellency’s most obedient humble servants, Thomas Lynch Arthur Middleton Edward Rutledge Thomas Heyward, Junior Thomas Lynch, Junior MS not found; reprinted from William E. Hemphill et al., eds., Journals of the General Assembly and House of Representatives, 1776-1780 (Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 1970), pp. 79-80. ‘For further references to the subject of this letter, see Richard Smith’s Diary, January 12, 1776, note 2.
