546 July 26, 1776 keep them at Peace. The Emoluments of the Trade are not a Com pensation for the Expence of donations. Rutledge differs from Walton in a Variety of Points. We must look forward with extensive Views. Carolina has been run to an amazing expence to defend themselves vs. Indians. In 1760 &c. fifty thousand Guineas were spent. We have now as many Men on the frontiers, as in Charlestown. We have Forts in the Indian Countries. We are connected with them by Treaties. Lynch. Congress may regulate the Trade, if they will indemnify Car. vs. the Expence of keeping Peace with the Indians, or defending Us vs. them. Witherspoon. Here are two adjacent Provinces, situated alike with respect to the Indians, differing totally in their Sentiments of their Interests. Chase. S. Carolina claims to the S. Sea. So does North, Virginia, and Massachusetts Bay. S. Carolina says they have a Right to regulate the Trade with the Indians. If so 4 Colonies have all the Power of regulating Trade with the Indians. S.C. alone could not stand alone vs. the Indian Nations. Sherman moves that Congress may have a Superintending Power, to prevent Injustice to the Indians or Colonies. Willson. No lasting Peace will be with the Indians, unless made by some one Body. No such language as this ought to be held to the Indians. We are stronger, We are better. We treat you better than another Colony. No Power ought to treat, with the Indians, but the united States. Indians know the striking Benefits of Confederation— they have an Example of it in the Union of the Six nations. The Idea of the Union of the Colonies struck them forcibly last Year. None should trade with Indians without a Licence from Congress. A perpetual War would be unavoidable, if every Body was allowed to trade with them. Stone. This Expedient is worse than either of the alternatives. What is the meaning of this Superintendency? Colonies will claim the Right first. Congress cant interpose untill the Evil has happened. Disputes will arise when Congress shall interpose. MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:243-44. 1 Debate this day in the committee of the whole centered on the clause in article 18 of the July 12 draft articles of confederation granting Congress exclusive rights for “Regulating the Trade, and managing all Affairs with the Indians.’’ JCC, 5:550. John Adams to James Warren Dear Sir Philadelphia July 26. 1776 My Health has lasted much longer, than I expected but at last it fails. The Increasing Heat of the Weather added to incessant ap-
