550 July 27, 1776 Fifteen days since, you were all inocculated, and I have not yet learned how you have fared. But I will suppose you all better and out of Danger. Why should I torture myself when I cant relieve you? It makes me happy to hear that the Spirit of Inocculation prevails so generally. I could wish it, more universal. The small Pox has done Us more harm than British Armies, Canadians, Indians, Negroes, Hannoverians, Hessians, and all the rest. We must conquer this formidable Enemy without Hesitation or delay. Sullivan is here, and in a Miff, at the Promotion of Gates, has asked Leave to resign his Commission. 2 I am sorry for this inconsid erate Step. It will hurt him more than the Cause. It is conjectured at New York, I am told, that he expects to be first Man in New Hampshire. If this is really his Motive, he ought to be ashamed of it, and I hope he will be dissappointed. The Ladies have not half the Zeal for Precedence, that We find every day among the Gentlemen. The Judge Advocate 3 came in this Evening, in fine Health and gay Spirits. The Army is the Place for Health—the Congress the Place of Sickness. God bless you all. Adieu. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:63. 1 Suspension points in MS. 2 See John Hancock to George Washington, July 26, 1776, note 3. ’William Tudor. John Adams to James Warren Dear Sir Philadelphia July 27. 1776 I have directed a Packett to you, by this days Post, and shall only add a few Words by Fessenden. I assure you the Necessity of your sending along fresh delegates here, is not chimerical. Paine has been very ill for this whole Week and remains in a bad way. 1 He has not been able to attend Congress, for several days, and if I was to judge by his Eye, his Skin, and his Cough, I should conclude he never would be fit to do duty there again, without a long Intermis sion, and a Course of Air, Exercise, Diet, and Medicine. In this I may be mistaken. The Secretary, 2 between you and me, is compleatly worn out. I wish he had gone home Six months ago, and rested himself. Then, he might have done it, without any Disadvantage. But in plain English he has been so long here, and his Strength, Spirit and Abilities so exhausted, that an hundred such delegates here would not be worth a Shilling. My Case is worse. My Face is grown pale, my Eyes weak and inflamed, my Nerves tremulous, and my Mind weak as Water. Fevourous Heats by Day and Sweats by Night are returned upon me, which is an infallible Symptom with
