July 27, 1776 551 me that it is Time to throw off all Care, for a Time, and take a little Rest. I have several Times with the Blessing of God, saved my Life in this Way, and am now determined to attempt it once more. You must be very Speedy in appointing other Delegates, or you will not be represented here. Go home I will, if I leave the Massa chusetts without a Member here. You know my Resolutions in these Matters are not easily altered. I know better than any Body what my Constitution will bear, and what it will not, and you may depend upon it, I have already tempted it, beyond Prudence, and Safety. A few Months Rest and Relaxation will remit me. But this is abso lutely necessary for that End. I have sent a Resignation to the General Court and am determined to take six Months rest at least. I wish to be released from Philadelphia forever. But in Case the General Court should wish otherwise, which I hope they will not, I dont mean Surlily to refuse them. If you appoint Such a Number, that We can have a Respit, once in Six Months at furthest, or once in three if that is more convenient, I should be willing to take another Trick or two. But I will never again undertake upon any other Terms, unless I should undertake for a Year, and bring my Wife and four Children with me, as many other Gentlemen here have done, which, as I know it would be infinitely more agreable, and more for the Benefit of my Children, so in my sincere opinion, it would be cheaper for the Province, because I am sure I could bring my whole Family here, and maintain it, as cheap as I can live here Single at Board with a servant and two Horses. I am &c. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Paine had recorded the start of his sickness on July 19: “Taken very ill with a fever.” Robert Treat Paine’s diary, July 19, 1776, MHi. 2 Samuel Adams. Samuel Adams to Benjamin Kent My dear friend Philad July 27 1776 I must beg you to impute to the true Reason my not having yet acknowledgd & answerd your very obliging Letter of the 24 May 1 — The Want of Leisure often prevents my indulging the natural In clination of my Mind to converse with my distant Friends by familiar Epistles; for however unequal I feel my Self to the Station in which our Country has placed me here, I am indispensibly obligd to attend the Duties of it with Diligence. It has been difficult for a Number of persons sent from all parts of so extensive a Territory and representing Colonies (or as I must now call them States) which in many Respects have had different Interests & Views, to unite in Measures materially to affect them all.
