552 July 27, 1776 Hence our Determinations have been necessarily slow. We have however gone on from Step to Step, till at length we are arrivd to perfection, as you have heard, in a Declaration of Independence. Was there ever a Resolution brot about, especially so important as this, without great internal Tumults & violent Convulsions! Th? Delegates of every Colony in Congress have given their Voices in favor of the great Question, & the People I am told, recognize the Resolution as though it was a Decree promulgated from Heaven. I have thot that if this decisive Measure had been taken six months earlier, it would have given Vigor to our Nothern Army & a differ ent Issue to our military exertions in Canada. But probably I was mistaken. The Colonies were not then all ripe for so momentous a Change. It was necessary that they shd be united, 8c it required time 8c patience to remove old prejudices, to instruct the unenlightened, convince the doubting and fortify the timid. Perhaps if our Friends had considerd how much was to be previously done they wd not have been, as you tell me some of them were “impatient under our Delay.” New Govts are now erecting in the several American States under the Authority of the people. Monarchy seems to be generally ex ploded—and it is not a little surprising to me, that the Aristocratick Spirit which appeard to have taken deep Root in some of them, now gives place to that of Democracy. You justly observe that “the Soul or Spirit of Democracy is Virtue.” No State can long preserve its liberty “where Virtue is not supremely honord.” I flatter my self you are mistaken in thinking ours is so very deficient, and I do assure you, I find relief in supposing your Colouring is too high. But if I deceive my self in this most essential point I conjure you and every Man of Influence by Example and by all Means to stem the Torrent of Vice, which, as a celebrated Author tells us, “pre vailing would destroy, not only a Kingdom or an Empire, but the whole moral Dominion of the Almighty throughout the Infinitude of Space.” I have Time only to add that I am very affectionately yours, S A FC (NN). 1 Kent’s letter is in the Samuel Adams Papers, NN. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dr. Papa, Pha. 27th July 1776. The vessels mentioned in my last dated in Congress landed Some highlanders: we know not how many. The enemy’s fleet has had a
