570 July 30, 1776 length, I fear, is departing. Increase of Heat in the Weather, and of Perplexity in Business, if that is possible, have become too much for me. These Circumstances, added to my Concern, for those other Parts of myself in Boston, would certainly have carried me there be fore now, if I could have got there: But I have no servant, nor Horse. I am now determined to go home: but the precise Time, I cannot fix. I know not how to go. I have been deliberating whether to go by the stage to New York, and trust to the Chapter of Acci dents to get from thence to Boston; or whether to hire, or purchase an Horse here, or whether to get along some other Way, with Coll. Whipple, or Mr. S. Adams. But am still undetermined. If I knew that Bass was at Leisure, and if I knew where you could get Horses, I should request you to send him here, to bring me home. But I dont know what to say. If he should come, he must keep a good look out, and make a strict Enquiry all along the Road, for me, least he should miss me, least I should pass by him on my Way home. After all, I cannot reconcile myself to the Thoughts of staying here so long as will be necessary for a servant and Horses to come for me. I must get along as well as I can by the Stage or by procuring a Horse here. The Conspiracy, at New York, betrayed the Ignorance, Folly, Timidity and Impotence of the Conspirators, at the same Time, that it disclosed the Turpitude of their Hearts. They had no Plan. They corrupted one another, and engaged to Act, when the Plan should be formed. This they left for an After Consideration. The Tory Interest in America, is extreamly feeble. Your Successes by Sea, give me great Pleasure, and so did the heartfelt Rejoicings at the Proclamation of Freedom. Mr. Bowdoins Sentiment did him Honour. Adieu. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:70-72. ’Abigail’s letter of July 21 and Richard Cranch’s of July 22 are in Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:55-58. Samuel Chase to Richard Henry Lee My Dear Sir, Philadelphia July 30th. 1776 Your Letter of the 14 Inst, followed Me to this City, and your other favour of the 21st was delivered by yesterdays Post. I hurried to Congress to give my little assistance to the framing a Confederacy and a plan for a foreign alliance, both of them Sub jects of the utmost Importance, and which in my Judgment de mand immediate Dispatch. The Confederacy has engaged our close
