July 30, 1776 573 and are to be governed by the following Instructions during the present Voyage or untill you receive others from Congress or from this or some other Committee of Congress. Mr Bradford will require bills of Loading from you for the entire Cargo on board the Dis patch Consigned to the above mentioned John Philip Merkle Esqr (who is to go passenger in the Brigt.) At her discharging Port in Europe, such bills of Loading you are to sign, receive Mr Merkle on bd., assist him in providing Sea Stores and then proceed with the utmost dilligence for the Coast of France avoiding most carefully all Vessells at Sea, and put into the first convenient Port you can make in that Kingdom; Nantes or Bourdeaux may perhaps be the safest, and you must there deliver to Mr. Merkle any part of the Cargo he may find it convenient to sell or the whole if he chuses it. We inclose to Mr Bradford by this Conveyance a Packet directed to Messrs. Sam. & J. H. Delap, Merchts. in Bourdeaux. Mr Bradford will deliver that Packet to you and we require your utmost Care of it, shoud you have the Misfortune to be taken you must throw it overboard slung with a weight that will sink it, for on no Account must this fall in the Hands of our Enemies. On the contrary if you get safe into Bourdeaux deliver it yourself to Messrs. Sam. & J. H. Delap, Merchts. there. If you go into any other Port forward it to them by Post or special Messenger as you may be advised is safest & best. You must also advise these Gentlemen what other ports or places Mr. Merkle intends to order you for, and desire them to write you a few lines telling you how to direct letters to Silas Deane Esqr. so that they will certainly fall into his Hands. We expect Mr Merkle will direct you to proceed from France to Amsterdam, and you must obey his Orders delivering to him the rest of the Cargo at any Port or Ports he may desire. He is not to pay any freight but will supply you with all things necessary for the Brigt. &: Money to pay Charges. For all you receive in Money, Stores, Outfitt 8cc you’ll grant him proper Receipts and when you have discharged entirely the present Cargo, you are to receive from him all such Goods, Wares, Merchandize, Arms &: Ammunition as he may think proper to ship granting him bills of Loading for what he puts on board. We also give you liberty to Arm the Brigt. in the most compleat Manner with as many four Pounder Cannon, Swivells, Blunder busses, Musquets, Cutlasses &c. as may be proper for such a Vessell. You may also ship as many good Seamen as you can conveniently accommodate obtaining them on the best Terms in your power. Lay in a suitable Stock of Provisions, a sufficient quantity of Ammu nition &c, the Cost & Charges of all which Mr Merkle will defray taking your Receipts. Whilst this business is transacting you will write immediately after your Arrival at the Port where it is to be done to Messrs. Sam. & J H Delap of Bourdeaux & also to Silas Deane Esqr. if you obtain
