July 30, 1776 581 ness it has given me to think you shoud suffer Inconvenience for the Want of it, we must avoid such things in future. I know nothing of the Fish Col. Gerry spoke to you about, but as Mr. Gerry of the Congress is now gone Home and it must have been bought by his Order I presume he will do the needful therein. Pray present my Comp’ts to him and accept the same yourself as I am very truly, Sir, Your Obed’t hble Servant, Rob’t Morris Tr (ViWC). Addressed: ‘‘John Bradford Esq’r, Continental Agent for Prizes etc, Boston." Transcriber’s notation: ‘‘Address in Robert Morris’ autograph.” 1 See Committee of Secret Correspondence to Stephen Cleveland, this date. North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina Council of Safety Dear Sir, Philadelphia July 29 [i.e. 30] 1776 1 This morning in Consequence of a letter from Governour Rutlege informing the Congress that the Cherokee nation had begun Hostili ties, a Resolve has passed recommending to the Provinces of Virginia, North Carolina and Georgia to assist and cooperate with South Caro lina in carrying on a War with all possible vigor against those savages. This however is by no means intended to alter the plan of military operations which you have begun or to draw off the Strength of our back Country to a distant part merely for the sake of acting in the same place with the South Carolinians, if the Opposition can be made as effectually in any manner devised by yourselves and from a part of your province from whence hostilities may successfully be carried into the bosom of the Cherokee Country. In fact nothing is meant but to subdue the Cherokees. We intended to have wrote you the other day by Capt Tool but his precipitate departure prevented it. Nothing very material has occured since he left this—what before you will find by having recourse to the newspapers which by him We inclosed to your Council of Safety. General Washington is at New York with a large army—G e n Howe on Staten Island with about 10,000 men and ex pecting every day reinforcements. Some slight skirmishes have hap pened but nothing decisive. We expect soon to hear that the Armies are in contact & then We shall write you again. We have taken advantage of a moments leisure from the Business of New York to call the Attention of the Congress to the State of North Carolina. This Evening they meet & from the disposition of the congress We flatter ourselves the very reasonable requisitions signified in your Letter & some other matters which have occurred
