July 30, 1776 583 Adieu my dear sir. Continue to enlighten your fellow citizens in the doctrine of a free government. Make them wise & virtuous, and they will be happy. Yours sincerely, B Rush RC (DLC). Addressed: “Dr. Walter Jones, Physician, Richmond, Virginia.” 1 Walter Jones (1745-1815) had been Rush’s friend since 1766 during their stu dent days at Edinburgh, where both men received their medical degrees. He re turned to his native Virginia to practice medicine but eventually accepted an active public role and held several elective offices, 1785-1811. When Jones was elected “physician general of the hospital in the middle department” in April 1777, he declined the appointment and Rush was elected to the position in his stead. JCC, 7:253, 8:490, 518; and Bio. Dir. Cong. Thomas Stone to the Maryland Council of Safety Gent. Phila. July. 30. 1776. We shall endeavour to procure the Instruments desired by yours of the 25th but they are not easily procured, 1 the Demand for the Continental Army being great and many of the Cutlers of this City having gone to Jersey with the Militia. The Powder and Arms were sent some days ago to Annapolis which we hope will be attended with no Inconvenience. 2 We have not the least Doubt but every thing in your Power will be done in the best Manner for the publick Service and the preservation of every part of the united States. Maryland to be sure must be a principal Object of your Attention, and we hope considering the Spirit and Alacrity which all ranks of men have shewn when our Province required their Service, that our Coast will be secured against the Dangers of Dunmore and his ras cally Gang of Pirates. We have Nothing lately from Ticonderoga. The Enemy do not stir from Staten Island. 8 Ships arrived there a few days ago but whether they brought Soldiers or not we have not heard. Genl Washington has now a considerable Strength at N. York, but there are only 3000 Men in Jersey, where there ought to be at least 10,000. Col. Smallwood is at N. York. We have no Doubt but the Subsistance Money will be readily paid. And we wish every Necessary which can be had may be furnished the Militia before they march. Money will be advanced to them here if they need it. Hunting Shirts will be a convenient & good uniform if they can be had. We shall at all Times give you the earliest Information of all important Occurrencies and shall with pleasure execute your Com mands, and have the Honour to be, Yr most obt Sert., T. Stone [P.S.] My Brothers are engaged in other Business, and the Post is going so that their signatures must be dispensed with. T. S.
