586 July 30, 1776 these colonies, as nobody would have prophesied, and hardly any would have expected? If therefore, at present, when the danger is yet imminent, when it is so far from being over, that it is but coming to its height, we shall find it impossible to agree upon the terms of this confederacy, what madness is it to suppose that there ever will be a time, or that circumstances will so change, as to make it even probable, that it will be done at an after season? Will not the very same difficulties that are in our way, be in the way of those who shall come after us? Is it possible that they should be ignorant of them, or inattentive to them? Will they not hcve the same jealousies of each other, the same attachment to local prejudices, and particular interest? So certain is this, that I look upon it as on the repentance of a sinner— Every day’s delay, though it adds to the necessity, yet augments the difficulty, and takes from the inclination. There is one thing that has been thrown out, by which some seem to persuade themselves of, and others to be more indifferent about the success of a confederacy—that from the nature of men, it is to be expected, that a time must come when it will be dissolved and broken in pieces. I am none of those who either deny or conceal the depravity of human nature, till it is purified by the light of truth, and renewed by the Spirit of the living God. Yet I apprehend there is no force in that reasoning at all. Shall we establish nothing good, because we know it cannot be eternal? Shall we live without govern ment, because every constitution has its old age, and its period? Because we know that we shall die, shall we take no pains to pre serve or lengthen out life? Far from it, Sir: it only requires the more watchful attention, to settle government upon the best principles, and in the wisest manner, that it may last as long as the nature of things will admit. But I beg leave to say something more, though with some risk that it will be thought visionary and romantic. I do expect, Mr President, a progress, as in every other human art, so in the order and perfec tion of human society, greater than we have yet seen; and why should we be wanting to ourselves in urging it forward? It is certain, I think, that human science and religion have kept company together, and greatly assisted each other’s progress in the world. I do not say that intellectual and moral qualities are in the same proportion in par ticular persons; but they have a great and friendly influence upon one another, in societies and larger bodies. There have been great improvements, not only in human know ledge, but in human nature; the progess of which can be easily traced in history. Every body is able to look back to the time in Europe, when the liberal sentiments that now prevail upon the rights of conscience, would have been looked upon as absurd. It
