July 31, 1776 587 is but little above two hundred years since that enlarged system called the balance of power, took place; and I maintain, that it is a greater step from the former disunited and hostile situation of kingdoms and states, to their present condition, than it would be from their present condition to a state of more perfect and lasting union. It is not impossible, that in future times all the states on one quarter of the globe, may see it proper by some plan of union, to perpetuate security and peace; and sure I am, a well planned con federacy among the states of America, may hand down the blessings of peace and public order to many generations. The union of the seven provinces of the Low Countries, has never yet been broken; and they are of very different degrees of strength and wealth. Neither have the Cantons of Switzerland ever broken among themselves, though there are some of them protestants, and some of them papists, by public establishment. Not only so, but these confederates are sel dom engaged in a war with other nations. Wars are generally between monarchs, or single states that are large. A confederation of itself keeps war at a distance from the bodies of which it is composed. For all these reasons, Sir, I humbly apprehend, that every argu ment from honour, interest, safety and necessity, conspire in pres sing us to a confederacy; and if it be seriously attempted, I hope, by the blessing of God upon our endeavours, it will be happily accomplished. MS not found; reprinted from John Witherspoon, The Works of John Wither spoon . . ., 9 vols. (Edinburgh: J. Ogle, 1815), 9:135-41, where it appears under the heading: "Part of a Speech in Congress, upon the Confederation.” 1 Thomas Jefferson’s Notes of Proceedings in Congress, July 12-August 1, and John Adams’ Notes of Debates, July 30, 1776, strongly suggest that this is the speech Witherspoon delivered in Congress on the 30th. Edmund C. Burnett as signed the date November 25, 1778, to this speech, but in doing so he admitted that “It is not known when this speech was made” and that it “might have been appropriate at almost any time when the Confederation was under discussion.” Burnett, Letters, 3:5O8n.2. In addition to the summaries of Witherspoon’s remarks by Adams and Jefferson, there is also internal evidence justifying an earlier date for this document. Witherspoon’s frequent use of the term “colonies” is suggestive of a period not long after independence had been declared, and his reference to the general situation then facing Congress as one of “danger . . . yet imminent . . . coming to its height” seems more appropriate to the summer of 1776 than the fall of 1778. John Hancock to Benjamin Flower Sir, Philada. July 31t. 1776. The enclosed Commission of Commissary of military Stores for the Flying Camp has been ready for you ever since the Date of it. 1
