596 August 1, 1776 We are engaged in very important business. I am in hopes jus tice & true policy will at last prevail over distinct & separate in terests. If it should not, I will predict that a confederation formed on partial & interested views will not be lasting. I was disappointed in not receiving a letter from you by this day’s post. My love to Molly, little Poll & Mrs Darnall. I hope to be with you the 11th instant. This place is insupportably hot. As there will not be a representation, even if I should not be chosen into Convention I shall return home. Mr. Chase desires to be re membered to all the family. Wishing a long enjoy [men] t of yr. health I remain, yr. affectionate Son, Ch Carroll of Carrollton RC (MdHi). Abraham Clark to James Caldwell Dear Sir, 1 Philaa. August It. 1776. Your favour of the 24th Ulto. & of Mr. Daytons of the 25th I this day had the Pleasure of receiving. The frequent miscarriage of Letters sent your way makes me more indolent in the Writing way than I should otherwise be. The State of the British Army on Staten Island is uncertain. They at first amounted to between 8 to 10 thousand, but Vessels are daily Arriving. 2000 highlanders got there some days past, & since that 15 or 16 Vessells came in at a Time, but as the Forces Occupy All parts of the Island it is difficult for us to know their Strength, but I am Persuaded they will soon be 20,000 Strong. A flying Camp is forming in the Jerseys from Amboy to Eliza. Town Point, when full it is to consist of About 16 Thousand, but at Present there is not I believe 5 thousand, tho’ they Are gathering fast. They have fortifications at all the Principal passes on the Island, as we have on the Jersey Shore. I can’t learn there is any design to Attack the Forces on the Island, they have become too Numerous. I expect we shall have Serious work with them soon. Such a Numerous force as they have or soon will have will induce them to make a push soon. We have 8 field pieces belonging to the Jerseys and 6 brass field pieces carried by the Phila. battalio[ns], and 10 More went yesterday or this morning from this City but not mounted, the Carriages are to make. Phila. is almost Striped of Inhabitants, all the City battalions are in the Jerseys. The Country battalions are now on their March, every day comeing into this Town on their way. Our Congress have now under Consideration a Confederation of
