602 August 1, 1776 to above 100, encrease the proportion of people who are to send a member. This is not the most perfect that can be wished; is certainly much better than the worst that can be contrived. MS (PPL). In the hand of Benjamin Rush. Endorsed: “Notes of Speeches delivered in Convention in 1776, in Congress in 1776 & in Convention of Pennsya 1776.” 1 It is clear from the notes of debates of both John Adams and Thomas Jefferson, this date, that Rush delivered this speech on August 1, 1776. 2 The abM Raynal (Guillaume Thomas Francois) discussed the government of the Dutch Republic in book 19 of his Histoire philosophique et politique des etablissemens et du commerce des Europeens dans les deux Indes. See Philosophical and Political History of the Settlements and Trade of the Europeans in the East and West Indies, trans. J. O. Justamond, 6 vols. (London: J. Mundell & Co., 1798; reprint ed., New York: Negro Universities Press, 1969), 6:265-68. 3 At this point, Rush attached a small sheet of paper to his notes with sealing wax, masking over the following passage, which he probably ignored when he delivered his speech. "One right excepted which belong [to] States—boundaries— this perhaps by colony Voting. The rest are all the rights of individuals—no state can alienate them.” ‘Here Rush attached a second insert, containing the next paragraph, which overlays the following lined out passage. "Let us remember our number [is] small— 300000 [3000000?] of people a small nation." ’Rush interlined four words between this paragraph and the next: "in 9 bind ing 13.” 3 According to Montesquieu, who cited book 14 of Strabo’s Geography, the Lycian Confederation consisted of 23 cities. Montesquieu, The Spirit of Laws, bk. 9, chap. 3. 7 Here Rush attached a third insert, containing the next two paragraphs, which overlay the following passage. “Our Confederation will partake of the infirmities of men. But let it be slight disordered. Dont let us [. . .] it that will ‘grow with its growth, strengthen with its strength’—& finally ending its ruin.” The biological metaphor Rush developed here undoubtedly rests upon his reading of Alexander Pope. "The young disease, that must subdue at length, Grows with his growth, and strengthens with his strength.” Essay on Man 2.135. Secret Committee to George Washington Sir In Secret Committee. Philada August 1st. 1776 We have the honor to transmit you five Tons of Musquet Pow der by the bearer hereof agreable to an order of Congress passed yesterday 1 and as our Stock here is not considerable We beg to remind you that three Powder Mills are now employed in making Con tinental Powder near New York, Vizt. Mr. Livingston & Mr. Wisners Mills in N York Government and Colo Fords in the Jerseys from whence this supply might have been drawn and when more is wanted it will be found there. By order of the Secret Committee, I have the honor to be Your Excellencys Most obedt. hble servt. Robt Morris, Chair Man
