610 August 2, 1776 1 Cornelius Harnett was president of the council of safety. For the council's “two last letters” to the North Carolina delegates, which were carried by William Hooper, who arrived in Philadelphia on July 23, see North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina Council of Safety, July 30, 1776, note 2. 2 For the resolve on sending “four tons of gunpowder and six four pounders” to North Carolina, which was passed by Congress on July 31, see JCC, 5:623. 3 See ibid. ‘See North Carolina Council of Safety to the North Carolina Delegates, July 7, 1776, in N.C. Colonial Records, 11:308-9. John Adams to Abigail Adams Aug. 3. 1776 The Post was later than usual to day, so that I had not yours of July 24 till this Evening. You have made me very happy, by the particular and favourable Account you give me of all the Family. But I dont understand how there are so many who have no Erup tions, and no Symptoms. The Inflammation in the Arm might do, but without these, there is no small Pox. I will lay a Wager, that your whole Hospital have not had so much small Pox, as Mrs. Katy Quincy. Upon my Word she has had an Abundance of it, but is finely recovered, looks as fresh as a Rose, but pitted all over, as thick as ever you saw any one. I this Evening pre sented your Compliments and Thanks to Mr. Hancock for his polite offer of his House, and likewise your Compliments to his Lady and Mrs. Katy. Aug. 4. Went this Morning to the Baptist Meeting, in Hopes of hearing Mr. Stillman, but was dissappointed. He was there, but another Gentleman preached. His Action was violent to a degree bordering on fury. His Gestures, unnatural, and distorted. Not the least Idea of Grace in his Motions, or Elegance in his Style. His Voice was vociferous and boisterous, and his Composition almost wholly destitute of Ingenuity. I wonder extreamly at the Fondness of our People for schollars educated at the Southward and for southern Preachers. There is no one Thing, in which We excell them more, than in our University, our schollars, and Preachers. Particular Gentlemen here, who have improved upon their Education by Travel, shine. But in general, old Massachusetts outshines her younger sisters, still. In several Particulars, they have more Wit, than We. They have Societies; the philosophical Society particularly, which excites a scientific Emulation, and propagates their Fame. If ever I get through this Scene of Politicks and War, I will spend the Remainder of my days, in endeavouring to instruct my Countrymen in the Art of making the most of their Abilities and Virtues, an Art, which they have hitherto, too much neglected. A philosophical
