August 3, 1776 611 society shall be established at Boston, if I have Wit and Address enough to accomplish it, sometime or other. Pray set Brother Cranch’s Philosophical Head to plodding upon this Project. Many of his Lucubrations would have been published and preserved, for the Benefit of Mankind, and for his Honour, if such a Clubb had existed. My Countrymen want Art and Address. They want Knowledge of the World. They want the exteriour and superficial Accomplish ments of Gentlemen, upon which the World has set so high a Value. In solid Abilities and real Virtues, they vastly excell in general, any People upon this Continent. Our N. England People are Aukward and bashfull; yet they are pert, ostentatious and vain, a Mixture which excites Ridicule and gives Disgust. They have not the faculty of shewing themselves to the best Advantage, nor the Art of concealing this faculty. An Art and Faculty which some People possess in the highest degree. Our Deficiencies in these Respects, are owing wholly to the little Intercourse We have with strangers, and to our Inexperience in the World. These Imperfections must be remedied, for New England must produce the Heroes, the statesmen, the Philosophers, or America will make no great Figure for some Time. Our Army is rather sickly at N. York, and We live in daily Ex pectation of hearing of some great Event. May God almighty grant it may be prosperous for America. Hope is an Anchor and a Cordial. Disappointment however will not disconcert me. If you will come to Philadelphia in September, I will stay, as long as you please. I should be as proud and happy as a Bridegroom. Yours. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:75-76. John Adams to William Heath Dear Sir Philadelphia Aug. 3. 1776 Yours of the 20th Ult. is before me. 1 1 am much obliged to you for it, and most heartily wish for a more free and intimate Communica tion of Sentiments, upon the State both of our Councils and Arms. I should be happy, in a few Hours Conversation, but as this cannot be, I must be content with a Letter. We have now a Nation to protect and defend; and I can easily see the Propriety of the observation you quote from the Prussian Hero, that the Prosperity of a State depends upon the Discipline of its Army. This Discipline reared the Roman Empire and the British: and the American will Stand or fall, in my opinion, according as it adheres to or deviates from the Same Discipline.
