612 August 3, 1776 If there is not Wisdom and Vigour enough in the civil Government to Support the military officers, in introducing and establishing Such a Discipline, it must be owing to the Advantages of Soil and Climate, and our extream Distance from our Enemies, not to our own Strength, Virtue, or Wisdom, if We do not fail. The Army must be well officered, Armed, disciplined, fed, cloathed, covered, and paid. In these Respects We do as well as We can. Time, I hope, will assist Us, and every officer of the Army, would do well to suggest to his Friends and Correspondents in Congress, and in the Legislatures of the Several States, every defect, and every Im provement in those Particulars, which occurs to him. I am in more Anxiety for Cloaths and Tents than any Thing, because the Health as well as Discipline of the Army, depend much upon them. We shall never do well, untill We get a regular Army, and this will never be, untill Men are inlisted for a longer Duration, and that will never be effected untill We are more generous in our Encourage ment to Men. But I am convinced that Time alone, will persuade Us to this Measure: and in the mean Time We shall, very indis creetly waste a much greater Expence than would be necessary for this great Purpose in temporary Calls upon Militia, besides risquing the Loss of many Lives, and much Reputation. Congress has not determined to have no Regard to the Line of Succession in Promotions, but only that this Line shall not be an invariable Rule. Caeteris paribus, the Line will be pursued. But they mean to reserve a Right of distinguishing extraordinary Merit, or Demerit. This Rule may be abused. But is it not necessary? All good Things are liable to abuse. I am afraid, nay I know it will be abused, in particular Instances. But if We make the succession an invariable Rule, will not the Abuse be greater? Is it not common in the British Army, to promote junior officers, over the Heads of their Superiours? Nay even officers in the same Regiment and on the same Command? I have been told of several Instances. This however is wrong. Your opinions of Men and Things, I wish I knew in more detail, because I have a good opinion of your Judgment of both, and I fear, situated as I am, many Things relating to both may not have come to my Knowledge, that I ought to know. As the first officer in the Massachusetts Service, you have in some sort the Patronage of all the officers of that State. I hope you will recommend the best Men for promotion. I confess myself very ignorant of the military Characters from that State. By some Expressions in the Close of your Letter, I conclude you were not perfectly Satisfyed with a late Promotion. Be assured, Sir, if that was raising a junior officer, over the Head of any Superiour, it was not considered in that light by the Gentlemen who did it. The
