August 3, 1776 613 Person promoted was thought to be the oldest Brigadier, and in tituled to Advancement’ by the Line of Succession. And it is my opinion he would have been made a Major General much sooner if his Experience had not been thought indispensible in the Adjutant Generals Department. 2 I am, Sir, with great Respect, your affection ate Servant, John Adams RC (MHi). ’Heath’s July 20 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi, and Collections of the Massachusetts Historical Society, 7th ser. 4 (1904): 11-13. 2 A reference to Horatio Gates. Heath was promoted to major general on August 9, 1776. JCC, 5:641. John Adams to Daniel Hitchcock Sir Philadelphia August 3. 1776 Your obliging Favour of the 22 Ult. came duely to Hand, 1 and I thank you for it. A free Correspondence between the Members of Congress and the officers of the Army will probably be attended with Advantages to the public by improving both the Councils and Arms of America. The Burthen of contracting for Cloaths, Arms, and accoutrements for the Regiments ought not to lie upon the collonells. A Pay master for each Regiment has been ordered by Congress, and if this officer is not enough, if a Representation was made of it, another would be appointed. But I suppose a Pay master would answer all the Purposes. If not be so good as to point out to me, what other Regulation is needfull. There is some ground for your observation that Officers are ad vanced faster to Posts of Honour, to the Southward than Northward. But I cannot think that the Instance you have mentioned, is a Proof of it, or that in that Case the Promotions were exceptionable. You say that every one who was Coll there last year, has been this year made a General. This in two illustrious Instances, Henry & Gadsden, did not hold. But in the other Cases it was not Wrong. Mercer, Lewis, More, and How were not only Men of Fortune, and Figure, in their Countries and in civil Imployments, but they were all veteran Soldiers, and had been Collonells in a former War. It is true, their Provincial Legislatures had made them only Collonells last year, and the Reason was because they only raised Regiments, not Brigades. But as soon as those Colonies came to raise Brigades, it was but reasonable these officers should be appointed Brigadiers. These officers stood in the Light of Thomas, Fry, Whitcomb, Put nam, &c &c with this difference, that the Gentlemen themselves were Superiour in Point of Property and Education. Besides, it has been
