614 August 3, 1776 our constant Endeavour, that each State should have a reasonable Number of General officers in Proportion to the Number of Troops they raise. It should be considered that We have constituents to satisfy as well as the Army, and Colonies to rank as well as Collonells and Generals. Massachusetts has most Cause of Complaint upon this Head. That there have not been many Promotions of Collonells to the Northward, is true. But how can it be avoided. If I were left to myself, to my Judgment and Inclination, I should not hesitate a Moment. But We must not deviate from the Line of Succession. If We do, We are threatened with Disgust and Resignations. And how can We follow the Line? Wooster, Heath and Spencer ought to be made Major Generals, But is this the opinion of the Army? Reed, Nixon, Prescott and others, the oldest Collonells, and veteran soldiers and undoubtedly brave officers. But there is not one Gentleman in this Congress, I believe who knows the Face of any one of them except the last, or that ever received a letter from any one of them. What are their Educations, their Abilities, their Knowl edge of the World, their Sentiments? Have they that Authority and Command, which a General Officer ought to have, and which is so essential to the Discipline of an Army, upon which according to the K. of Prussia the entire Prosperity of every State depends. My own opinion is, that it is safest to promote those officers in Succession, but I fear it will never be done. It never will unless the General recommends it, and I dont believe he will do it. Besides the Colonies must and will have their Shares of Generals, except the Massachusetts. Such is the Nature of Mankind in Society, especially in Armies, that I believe it is best to pursue the Line of Succession in Promo tions excepting extraordinary Cases of Merit and Demerit. But if it would not occasion Confusion, I think a General Officer ought to be a Man of Letters, Taste and Sense, and therefore Parsons, Varnum, Hitchcock, and others of the like Character would certainly have my Vote. But then you know that old officers would tare up the ground, if such Youths, and inexperienced People, as they would express themselves were put over their Heads. 2 I have written with great Freedom, in Confidence that no ill use will be made of it. I wish your Sentiments upon these subjects with the Same Candor. The affair of the Bounty, has given me Uneasiness enough to no Purpose. 3 I see We shall never get a regular, permanent Army, but must go on patching up an Army every 3 Months, with fresh Militia, at double the Expence. Reason and Experience are some times lost upon the wisest and the best of Men. LB (MHi). Addressed: “Coll Daniel Hitchcock, Camp in Long Island.” 1 The July 22 letter from Daniel Hitchcock (d. 1777), commander of the Eleventh Continental Regiment, is in the Adams Papers, MHi.
