August 3, 1776 615 * On August 9 Congress appointed four major generals—William Heath, Joseph Spencer, John Sullivan, and Nathanael Greene—and six brigadier generals—James Read, John Nixon, Arthur St. Clair, Alexander McDougall, Samuel H. Parsons, and James Clinton. JCC, 5:641. “In his July 22 letter Hitchcock had complained that the ten dollar bounty voted by Congress on June 26 for “every non-commissioned officer and soldier, who will inlist to serve for the term of three years’’ would not be sufficient to induce men from New England to enlist. See JCC, 5:483. John Adams to Samuel H. Parsons Dear Sir Philadelphia August 3. 1776 Your Favour of 24 Ult. is before me. 1 Your observations concern ing the Encouragement We ought to give to soldiers to inlist, I think, are just; but a Wisdom Superiour to mine determined other wise, and therefore I must take it for granted, that it is Superiour Wisdom to live from Hand to Mouth, to trust to temporary Ex pedients, and to depend upon fresh Reinforcements of raw Militia every 3 Months instead of a regular, well disciplined Army. The Rule of Promotions is still unsettled, and I believe will continue so. The Time will soon arrive, when every state will appoint its own officers, and fill all Vacancies, under the Generals. For my own Part I have sometimes thought the best Rule would be to make the Promotion of Captains and Subalterns Regimental, and of Field officers Colonial. To make it continental is impracticable. The Case of Coll Tyler and Coll Durkee, will be considered by the Board of War, this Evening. 2 How they will determine, I know not. It will be determined with Integrity, I am very sure, I hope with Judgment, and in a Manner that will give Satisfaction. But this I am fully convinced of, that every Promotion, almost without Ex ception, that ever will be made, let it be done with ever so much Skill and Integrity and let us observe what Rule We may, will give Discontent, open or secret, to somebody, or other. There is no Possibility of giving universal Satisfaction to great Numbers of Men. Your Memorial has been duely attended to, and is under the Consideration of a Committee. 3 It is a difficult Case. I am, with Respect, and Esteem, your most obedient servant. John Adams RC (NjR: Elsie O. and Philip D. Sang photostat, 1972). “Parsons’ July 24 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi. “John Tyler and John Durkee were promoted to colonel on August 10. JCC, 5:644. 8 Parsons’ memorial asked for the arrest of Bazil Bouderot, a Canadian prisoner, for the murder of Parsons’ brother. It was read in Congress on July 25 and com mitted to a committee of which Adams was a member. On August 21 Congress ordered that Bouderot be imprisoned in Massachusetts until his trial or removal to Nova Scotia. See JCC, 5:609, 692-93; and Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:407-8n.l.
