618 August 3, 1776 neglected to send me the dates of their Commissions or appointments in the Militia. I have therefore wrote to them 1 to return me the dates before Commissions Can be made out. As to the Subalterns, there being placed with an Older or Younger Captain does not affect their Rank as that will be preserved by the Commission made out for them, and as that Will be the Case it is better they Should be fixed in Such Companies as best please them. I Showed Captain Gordon the return made me by the Field-Officers Showing the order in which they Chose to be placed with respect to the Companies, Which Mr. Gordon Said was agreable to their desire so far as he had knowledge in it. That he was shure it was right as to Caldwell’s Company. With Respect to the Choice of a Convention, I would Submit it to you and Your friends Whether (when you have fixed on Such Ticket as meets with your approbation) it would not be best to persue and Endeavour to impress the Utility of Such Choice being made by the people (Especially at a time when the Establishing their Rights and priviledges as freemen depends on Such Choice) Upon Your former plan, I mean of true Whiggism, True patriotism. This plan if persued with diligence and such Cool argument & reasoning as the Cause will point out & justify, I think Must Carry with it Persuation and Conviction. It Certainly will with all such as are not Governed by a party Spirit. If any person or persons be proposed in oposition to your ticket who have heretofore been unfriendly to the Cause, point out to the people their former Conduct, and Submit to them the propriety of trusting to Such men, at Such an Important Crisis. Your Scheme ought to hold out to the people more of the Patriot than of party-man. I will again Submit as before, Whether the Enquiry & Examination proposed to be had before the Committee will not tend so to irritate As to occasion many people by taking Sides in that matter To loose sight of the Cause, their true interest, for if they are lead to believe that you and Your friends are Governed more by party Sperit than by the true Interest of America, they Will hold you in the Light of all other party-men and deal with you Accordingly. You say the Committee are about to make this Enquiry. Are there a Sufficient Number of Patriots in that Committe to answer Your Expectation? Are there a Considerable Majority of them that Wish the Enquiry should be had? Will they (if matters turn out as you Expect) publish their opinions to the County So that the friends to Liberty may benefit by it? It is an Enquiry that ought to have been made but it is an Enquiry that ought to be made by men of Understanding only. Do Such make a Majority of the Committee tho good men? By What authority do they take it up? Are not many of the members principals in the matter of Enquiry? All these things I Submit to the Good Sense and prudence of You and Your friends. Tho you Seem to have
