626 August 6, 1776 of Comissions of any Continental Troops raised in your State and the Time for which they were enlisted. RC (MdAA). In a clerical hand and signed by Peters. Addressed: “Honble Con vention or Committee of Safety of the State of Maryland at Annapolis. Free. E. Rutledge.” Texts of this letter in M-Ar and N. C. Colonial Records, 10:726, indicate that it was a circular letter to all the states. 1 This resolve had been passed by Congress on May 21, 1776. JCC, 4:372. The board was prompted to write this letter by an August 5 resolve instructing it "to furnish the Committee of Treasury with the names of the British officers and other prisoners, who are entitled to the allowance made by Congress of two dollars per week, with the times of their captivity and the places where they are quartered.” JCC, 5:632. Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton My Dear Friend, Phila. Augst 6th. 1776. Your favour of the 25 July & Mr Caldwells of the 26 from the German Flatts, I reed. A few days ago, which I Answered in a Letter to Mr Caldwell, having the day before wrote to you 1 by a Doctor going through Albany to the Army at Ticonderoga. Yours of the 20th of July from Fort Stanwix I reed yesterday. I have frequently informed you of the Situation of Our Army in the Jerseys Watching that under Genii. Howe on Staten Island. Could I believe my Let ters would come Safe to you, my Pleasure in Writing would be Equal to that you express in receiving them. The Kings Army re main on the Island fortifying every Pass, their Numbers unknown, but we with reason believe they are daily receiving reinforcements. 40 Vessels great & small arrived a few days ago. The Numr. of our Forces in Jersey I am not able to inform you of; they are to consist of at least 16 Thousand when Compleated. The greater part of the Militia of Pennsylva. were either there or going, who are to stay till the Army is Compleated. They form a Chain from Amboy to Eliza. Town Point where strong works are erected at an Amazing expence of labour Chiefly effected by our Militia before the Pennsylvanians arrived to their Assistance. The Jersey Militia upon the Arrival of other Forces returned home to get in their harvest, since which they are again taking the field. What works are thrown up at Amboy, blazing Star &c I am not able to say. I know nothing of any design to Attack the Kings Forces on the Island, it rather seems An Attack from them is waited for, and it is said such an Attack is soon ex pected to be made above N. York near Kings Bridge to which place the Ships that went up the River I hear are returned. Eliza. Town was in great Consternation upon Genl. Howes taking possn. of the Island, but at present I believe they are very easy. I frequently in-
