August 6, 1776 627 formed you Mrs. Dayton had sent the Chief of her goods to Spring field. Many that moved away from E. Town have since returned. You no doubt have been informed by the Papers of the Flags sent by Lord How to Genii. Washington with Letters he refused to re ceive as they were only directed to George Washington &c. You have also I suppose seen the Printed Narative of what passed in Conver sation between Genl. Washington & Colo Patterson who came with a flag from Lord Howe. 2 We lately sent a flag to his Lordship to settle An Exchange of Prisoners. He received the Officer with great Politeness, manifested a deep concern that he had not Arrived be fore Independency was declared, professed a great regard for Amer ica especially the Massachusets Bay that had so Signally honoured his family. He gave Genii. Washington the Title of Genii, and called us the United States. He consented to the exchange of Prisoners, proposed immediately to Set all his prisoners at liberty relying upon the honour of the American States to return him An equal Number when in their Power. By a Flag to Genii. Howe an Exchange of Prisoners was also Agreed upon so far as fell within his department, Canada being he said out of it. An Indian War hath broke out to the Southward. The Over Hill Cherokees have commenced Hostilities in the back part of Carolina, killed 30 or 40 in one Settlement and had about 120 beseiged in a Fortress which it was thought must Surrender before Succours could Arrive. Forces were Marching against the Indians. Genii. Clintons Fleet and Army remain inactive below Charles Town since his de feat, his Forces Sickly. No News from Lord Dunmore since he left Guins Island and went up Potomack River. Last Saturday our Gondolas Attacked the Kings Ships Near Doobs Ferry. They fought About 11/2 hours, hulled the Man of War several Times, and fared in the same manner themselves; they lost but few Men, several wounded, and I believe came of[f] the second best, tho’ the Commander Writes that he hopes soon to give the Kings Ships Another drubbing. 3 This days Post since I began this Letter brings Accounts of more of the Enemy Arriving in the Narrows—an Addition to what I have mentioned of at least 20 Transports. And by the last Accounts bro’t this day I find our Force in the Jerseys were by no means Equal to what I Supposed from former information, as above mentioned. I Spoke to our President for the Commissions you desire may be sent, he tells me you must Apply to Genii. Schuyler who hath got Spare Commissions and can Supply your Regt. I dare Say you have a good Regiment, and hear their Commenda tion with pleasure, but had you seen a Regiment that went near two Weeks ago to New York raised in Maryland, and Another Paraded this day in the Statehouse Yard from the Deleware Government,
