630 August 6, 1776 deliver as many Arms as are necessary for your Battalion, Robert Morris Esqr. will give the orders for the Delivery. And I have it in Charge from Congress to Direct that as soon as the Arms are Rec’d, you do without loss of time March your Battalion to Amboy in New Jersey, &: Acquaint Genl. Washington of your Arrival there, and follow such orders as you shall Receive from him. 1 I am Sir, Your very hum sert, J H Pt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “To The officer Commandg. the Battalion of Continental Troops at the Barracks, Philada. Col. Haslet’s Battalion.” ’See JCC, 5:631. William Hooper to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr. Dear Sir Philadelphia August 6. 1776 Col Williams obligingley gave me a sight of a letter from you. I am sorry to find you so much in the plaintive strain and that you have such just occasion for it. You mention that you had wrote me. Be assured that I have not received a line from you, or I should have used my small abilities to lessen the difficulties with which your department is go grievously embarrassed. Congress is not well informed of the state of the Northern Army. The distance of that Station, the variety of Impediments which Sickness, Climate, the failure of duty in officers and men have thrown in the way have been insurmountable even to the most spirited and well meant intentions of this Congress. Unless some measures are immediately taken to strengthen your post I augur that Burgoygn will soon set foot in Albany. The Stars in their courses seem to fight against our attempts in your Quarter. And What the enemy and desertion have spared seem to be reserved only for the horrid depredations of Sickness. Heaven watch over the remains of what from its numbers was once formidable. I flatter myself that I shall hear from you frequently. You never can want a subject, whatever concerns the publick or you privately or officially will be interesting and important to me as a publick officer and as your friend. I wish to know very minutely the state of the Army in your quarter, and should there be any part of information which you mean to trust only to my own private ear, I shall most faithfully obey your Injunctions in this respect. A large body of Troops Regular Militia are on their way from this to New York. I wish they may arrive seasonably. A Capt Weeks has taken 3 prizes valued at 45,000 and sent them here; they have already arrived. No other Intelligence worth Scribbling, which can be an excuse
