632 August 6, 1776 Months just as Provisions, Water & other Circumstances point out to be best. If you gain any material Intelligence You must put into the nearest port of the Continent & dispatch an Express to us with the same. You must by all opportunitys transmit us an Account of your proceedings & of such Occurrences as you meet with. You are to be particularly attentive to protect, aid & assist all Vessells & property belonging to these States or the Subjects thereof. It is equally your duty to Seize, take, Sink, Burn or destroy that of our Enemys. Be carefull of the Sloop, her Stores and Materials, use your People well thereby recommending the American Naval service to all who engage in it, and we also recommend Humane kind Treat ment of your Prisoners. These things duely observed will recom mend You to the attention 8c regard of this Committee. We are, sir, Your hble servants, John Hancock Robt Morris Joseph Hewes Geo. Read Geo Walton Arthur Middleton Fras. Lewis Fras. Hopkinson Wm. Whipple RC (DNA: PCC, item 58). Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Hancock, Hewes, Hopkinson, Lewis, Middleton, Read, Walton, and Whipple. Addressed: “To John Paul Jones Esqr, Commander of the Sloop Providence.” 1 See JCC, 4:253-54. “See JCC, 4:300-301. North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina Council of Safety Gentlemen Philadelphia August 6, 1776 We have this morning obtained an order upon the Continental Magazine for half a Ton of Gun powder for the use of the back Inhabitants of North Carolina. 1 A Mr McDonald an Inhabitant of the County of Rowan being on his way home with a Waggon has engaged to take in that quantity 8c proceed immediately to Salisbury with it. We shall direct him to deliver it to General Ruthufurd, in his Absence to Mr Matthew Lock, in case of both being absent to Mr Hugh Montgomery. We induced to this measure from infor mation which we have obtained that the Indians have fallen upon the frontiers of the Colony 8c that our people are in the most distressed and defenceless situation from the want of Ammunition.
