634 August 7, 1776 Adams or Myself, which is not the Case—he knows my Esteem & Friendship for him. Adieu. Your affectionate 8c obedt. Servt. Sami. Chase [P.S.] In what State is our Navy on the Lakes? RC (NHi). RC damaged; recipient and missing words taken from Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:810-11. 1 None of Chase’s letters to Arnold mentioned in this paragraph have been found. ’See Samuel Chase to Horatio Gates, August 9, 1776. Abraham Clark to James Caldwell My Dear Friend, Phila. Augt 7th. 1776 Your favour of the 26 July from the German Flats I reed and the next day after wrote you by Post, at the same Time reed, a letter from Colo. Dayton of the 25th & since that I reed, one the Colo. Wrote the 20th from fort Stanwix, to which I wrote a Long answer Yesterday Which I have yet by me, as the President will Write this day to Genii. Schuyler and hath engaged to send it in his Packet, in which I purpose to get this a place. If this Should find you at the German Flats, and the Colo, is at Fort Stanwix, I hereby Authorize you to Open & read his Letter 8c then forward it to him, as I Expect my Letters to Either of you will be considered as intended for both. We have no News to day. This morning one of our Large Frigates was Launched, 1 two others of 24 8c 26 Guns were some Time ago Launched 8c are Rigging. I regret my being moved to this Congress. I think I could have been of more Service in our own Province than here. I remember what Cesar Said in passing the Alps, “That he had rather be the first in a Small Village in the Alps, than the Second in Rome.” This will not exactly apply to myself, as I did not Esteem myself the first in the Jersey Conven tion, and I am sure I am far below the Second here. It is however in some degree Applicable. In your Letter you tell me of our feasting here. Indeed we have plenty, but I dare say you have the best feast. My want of health will not suffer me to relish delicacies. News as far as my present Station will permit I have given in the Letter to the Colo. More I might in confidence Say were either of you Present, but I dare not Risk more in a Letter. I think I informed you in my last that Money to pay your Regiment was sent forward—and the matter relative to your Regiments returning to the Jerseys in the fall was not proper to mention yet, from
