August 7, 1776 635 the uncertain issue of the War to the Northward. I am Dear Sir, most Affectionately Yours, Abra. Clark P.S. I don’t recollect the Death of any of your hearers since you left us but Thos. Williams who died two Weeks ago or something more. RC (MeHi). 1 Robert Treat Paine’s diary entry for this date reads: “Very hott, Sultry. The Frigate Washington launched.” MHi. Committee of Secret Correspondence to Silas Deane Dear sir Philadelphia August 7th 1776 The above is a Copy of our last, which went by the Dispatch, Captain Parker. 1 The Congress have since taken into consideration the heads of a Treaty to be proposed to France, but as they are not yet con cluded upon we cannot say more of them per this conveyance. You will see by the News papers which accompany this, that the expidition against South Carolina is foiled by the gallant resistance made there. The Enemy, much diminished by Sickness, it is thought will attempt nothing farther in those Parts. The People of North Carolina, who at first had taken up their Bridges, and broken the Roads to prevent the Enemys penetrating their Country, have since, being ready to receive him, repaired the Roads and Bridges, and wish him to attempt making use of them. Gen. Howe is posted now on Staten Island near New York with the Troops he carried to Halifax when he was driven out of Boston. Lord Howe is also arrived there with some reinforce ments, and more are expected, as the great push seems intended to be made in that Province. Gen. Washington’s Army is in pos session of the Town, about which Many entrenchments are thrown up, so as to give an opportunity of disputing the possession with G. Howe, if he should attempt it, and of making it cost him some thing, but it is not so regularly fortified as to Stand a Siege. We have also a flying Camp in the Jerseys, to harrass the Enemy if he should attempt to penetrate through that Province to Philada. In the different Colonies we have now near 80,000 Men in the pay of the Congress. The Declaration of Independence Meets with universal approbation, and the people every where Seem more an imated by it in defence of their Country. Most of our Frigates are
