August 8, 1776 689 that City, and the Junction of the two Armies under Generals Howe & Burgoyne, seem to be the grand objects they have in View, to the Attainment of which they give up every inferior Considera tion. In this Situation of our Affairs, the Congress being of Opinion your Services in the Middle Department will be necessary, I have it in Command to direct, that you repair as soon as possible to the City of Philadelphia, there to receive such Orders as they may think proper to give you. 2 The Attack at New York being hourly expected, and the Event of it uncertain, I am to request, you will use the greatest Expedition on the Way. With the best Wishes for your Health 8c Prosperity, I have the Honour to be, with the utmost Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Sert. J. H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “Genl. Lee, South Carolina.” 1 Washington’s second letter to Hancock of August 7, containing intelligence about the recent arrival in New York of “General Clinton . . . and the whole Southern Army.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:382-83. 2 See JCC, 5:638. John Hancock to George Washington Sir Philadelphia Aug. 8. 1776 Your letters of the 7 with the papers enclosed are received and now under consideration of Congress. 1 Enclosed I send you a resolution passed respecting lieutenant Josiah. He was first lieutenant of captain Nicholas Biddle 8c was taken in a ship capt Biddle had made prize of, by the Cerberus frigate. By a letter which he found means to convey he informs that “he is used worse than he ever thought one Englishman could use another—that he was sent before the mast with the rest, but upon refusing to do duty was given under the charge of three boatswains mates & expects the gangway soon as he is daily threatened.” 2 An Order is this moment pass’d for calling general Lee from the Southward, 8c to morrow is appointed for electing a number of major generals 8c brigr. generals. I am, Sir, your very huml Servt, John Hancock Presit [P.S.] You will please to mention the matter of Lieut. Josiah as real information, but not discover that it was by Letter, as it may prove injurious, in case he is not exchang’d.
