August 9, 1776 643 Samuel Chase to Horatio Gates Dear Sir. Philadelphia Augst. 9th. 1776 Mr. J. Adams shewed Me your Letter to him from Tyonderoga, of the 17th of July, 1 Wherein You write “I desire if Chase is re turned to Congress, he may know how much I have been deceived & disappointed in being removed from a Place where I might have done the public Service & fix’d in a Situation where it is exceeding doubtful if it will be in my Power to be more than the wretched Spectator of a ruined Army.” “Mr. Chase passed too speedily through this Country, he saw superficially, & like a sanguine Man, drew Con clusions from the Consequence, and not the Cause. Tell him, if he and I meet, he must expect to be called to a serious Account, upon this Matter. I know he is my sincere Friend, but I also know he has deceived himself and his friend. I am not angry. I am only vexed with him.” After this Recital of so unkind, so unfriendly, so in jurious a Letter, permit Me to ask you a few serious Questions. Why not write to Me if You conceived yourself injured or deceived? How have you been deceived and disappointed by your Removal from N York to the Command in Canada, in what particulars and by whom? Did I ever make a Profession, or communicate an opinion or relate a fact in which I was not sincere & faithful? When did I pass too speedily through the Country in going or returning from Canada, and to what does this Relate? What Things did I see superficially? Deal in the particulars &: point out where I was mistaken, as to Men, Things & Circumstances. I admit that I am constitutionally warm & sanguine, but be pleased to Name the Instances in which I drew Conclusions from the Consequence and not the Cause? If ever You & I should meet, I will with Candor & Integrity &: as a Friend, answer you in all your Inquiries, or I will with pleasure by Letter give you full Satisfaction. I will now only ask you one more Question. In what Instance have I deceived Myself or You? I will not be angry with you, but I am not only vexed, but morti fied, chagrined & exceedingly hurt by your Suspicious and very unfriendly Expressions. You have held up your Friend as a Man who had deceived and disappointed you, as a superficial observer & of so warm & weak a Constitution as to draw Conclusions from the Con sequence and not the Cause. An Imputation on my Understanding I can forgive, A charge that I have disappointed & deceived You, from want of Knowledge &: without Design, I can forget. I will add no more, but that I always was, and still am, with Sincerity, Your affectionate and Obedt. Servant, Sami. Chase RC (NHi). ’For Gates’ letter of July 17 to John Adams, see Bernhard Knollenberg, ed„
