648 August 10, 1776 pleased to let me know what you hear of the Situation of our friends on the Eastward part of Long Island, what is become of General Woodhull, Mr Hobart, Tredwell, Mr. Smith and others. Have you heard any thing from my family, has any of our friends Got off the Island with their families, or what must they Submit too; Despotism or Destruction I fear is their fate. We have nothing new here; all Important News is with you. Is our Convention Siting, are they forming Goverment, where are the two armies, what are their prob able Intentions, is New York to be Evacuated as well as Long Island with out fighting, or will our army like the Romans of old Consider the Invaluable prize for which they are Contending and with their fortitude attack the Enemy where Ever they can find them; knowing that Death is Rather to be Chosen than life upon the terms our Enemies will Suffer us to hold it. If our Convention is not Sitting please to Inform me who I can Draw upon for money to pay my Expences, And youl very much oblige, Sr., your very humble Servt, Wm Floyd RC (WHi). 1 Floyd probably wrote this letter to a member of the New York Convention, but the recipient has not been identified. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia August 10th. 1776. Conceiving it highly necessary you should be informed as soon as possible of the Promotions the Congress were yesterday pleased to make in the Army of the American States, I do myself the Honour to enclose you a List of the same by Express. 1 The Continental Battalion, commanded by Colonel Haslet, will begin their March this Day for the Jerseys; where, on their Arrival at Amboy, the Colonel has Orders to acquaint you of the same. 2 I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most hble Serv. J°hn Hancock Presidt [P.S.] The Inclos’d Letters please to order to be Deliver’d. 3 The Commiss[ion]s [are] Inclos’d in each. RC (DLC). In the hand of lacob Rush, with signature and postscript by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 5:641, 644. 2 See Hancock to lohn Haslet, August 6, 1776. ’These were Hancock’s letters of this date to William Heath, loseph Spencer, John Sullivan, and Nathanael Greene, informing them of their promotions to the rank of major general; to James Read, John Nixon, Arthur St. Clair, Alexander McDougall, Samuel Holden Parsons, and James Clinton, apprising them of their promotions to the rank of brigadier general; and to William Tudor, telling him of his promotion to the rank of lieutenant colonel. PCC, item 12A; and Am.
