652 August 10, 1776 been sitting a considerable Time; but I believe they are not yet nearly arrived at an End of their Business. Our Friends Ross and Smith seem sometimes pretty well pleased with what is going on; but, at other Times, not entirely so. The legislative Power, I am told, will be vested only in one Body, to be annually elected. A Ro tation in this Body is suggested as a Check upon it and upon its Members. A septennial or Decennial Convention, with Powers to correct and amend the Errors discovered in the Constitution or Administration, is proposed. Such a Convention, to support its own Importance, will, in my Opinion, either find or make Mischief. To make it salutary, the Constitution should be a bad one. Perhaps, however, such a Convention, to meet at very considerable Distances of Time, such as 50 Years, might be of Service. By that Time, some of the Wheels of the Machine, tho’ well made and properly put in Motion at first, may be out of Repair. A Governour and Council are proposed as the executive Power. I have heard very little con cerning the Judges. I would not close this Letter before the Post came from New York. I have been with the President, and have seen his Letters from General Washington. The Intelligence contained in them is very interesting, and gives Reason to look out for something in a short Time that will be still more so. You have heard, I presume, that the British Troops to the Number of eight Thousand under General Howe landed some Weeks ago on Staten Island. They have been since joined by the Forces under General Clinton and Lord Cornwallis, who have been drove from South-Carolina; by Part of the Hessians and of General Fraser’s Regiment. Their Number, by this Time, probably amounts to fifteen thousand. More are every Day expected by the Enemy. Our Force at New-York and its Neighbourhood is 17,000, but many of them are sickly; and from the Nature of the Country are much detached from one another. The Militia now in New-Jersey under the Command of General Mercer may, I presume, be about eight thousand. Their Numbers are hourly increasing. The Evening before last an hundred Boats were discovered carrying Troops from Staten-Island on Board the Ships that lie near it. Some of those Ships were falling down to wards Sandy Hook. All Appearances indicated a general Embarka tion; and the Design of that Measure, in all Probability, is a general Attack. General Washington writes that the Spirits of our Men are by no Means depressed at this Prospect. The Crisis is approaching. God grant that it may be fortunate. I think all Things considered, we have no Reason to despair. The Enemy, after having allowed our Troops so much Time to fortify themselves, must make the Attack under every Disadvantage. Our northern Army is now in a much better Situation than it has
