August 11, 1776 653 been in for some Time past. We are augmenting, with much Ra pidity, our naval Force upon Lake Champlain. Part of General Burgoyne’s Army is at St John’s, and is likewise busied in making naval Preparations. Colonel St Clair was yesterday made a General Officer. His Character stands deservedly high. It will give me Pleasure to hear from you. I am, Dear Gentlemen, Your very humble Servant, James Wilson RC (PHC). 1 For Congress’ resolution of August 6 inquiring of the commissioners whether “the garrisons on the Ohio and its waters, should be supplied with provisions by contract or by a commissary,” see JCC, 5:634. Wilson’s brief letter of transmittal, dated August 10 and addressed to the “Commissioners for Indian Affairs in the Middle Department,” is at MH, 2 Not found. John Adams to Samuel H. Parsons Dear sir Philadelphia August 11. 1776. Last Evening I reed yours of 7 July. It should have been August I suppose. 1 I am perfectly of your opinion of the Policy, and the Necessity of offering Land to inlist Soldiers. There is a difficulty attends it. Some Colonies have no Lands to give. However this might be got over, if the General would recommend the Measure—but it seems to me it never will be done, untill he does. Congress has already ordered a Paymaster to every Regiment. 2 Whether these officers have been appointed or not I cant say—if proper Persons were recommended to Congress, they would be ap pointed at once. I can now inform you that We have made a great Number of Promotions, and give me Leave to assure you that none ever gave me more Pleasure than yours. 3 I had the Pleasure of doing Justice to your Character upon the occasion, at least as far as my Voice and Testimony would go, from an acquaintance of about 24 years. Tyler is Coll of your Regiment and Prentice Lt Coll, Durkee Coll of the twentyeth and Knowlton Lt Coll. 4 Whether the Promotions We have made of General officers, will allay the Discontents you speak of, or increase them I know not. Let the Rank of officers be as deli cate a Point as it will, the Rank of Colonies is equally delicate and of more Importance. The Massachusetts Bay has not its Proportion of General officers. And the Mass. Colls I expect will be discon tented. I cant help it. They are brave Men I doubt not. But whether they are Gentlemen of liberal Education, of any Knowledge of the World, of any Spirit of Command, of any Extent of Capacity, I
