658 August 11, 1776 Funds in Europe, it will not be thought strange that we shou’d under such circumstances seek for Credit, and if our Cause is Crowned with success (which I think must be the case sooner or later) there is little danger in trusting us or indeed none at all, & that on the Contrary if we shou’d be unsuccessfull the Goods may be stopped in the West Indies for you may be sure we will not order them from thence unless we see perfect security in so doing. I say when these things are attended to, not half the danger will appear that may at first be immagined. Now if the Goods arrive safe we can sell them instantly for ready Money at very high prices and wou’d immediately Invest the Money in the pur chase of Tobacco, Indigo, Flour, Wheat 8c such other produce as may suit the French Market. If Insurance can be made on these Products against all Risques the Remittances will thereby be ren dered Certain 8c the payment for the Goods Speedy. I hope there fore you will exert yourselves to the utmost to Effect this plan and if any French or Dutch Houses choose to join you in it they may be a third, you a third 8c we a third or in any other proportion you like better. At Martinico Wm Bingham, Esqr. 8c Mr. Richd Harrison will receive 8c forward the Goods, at Cape Francois Mr. Stephen Ceronio or in his absence Mr. Jno. Gaignard. Tom knows Ceronio 8c indeed so do you. He is capable 8c faithful to the last degree but if any better Method occurs to you, do therein as you think best. If any Character of our House is wanted to gain the necessary Credit Tom knows where to apply for it. You may depend that the pursuit of this plan deserves your utmost exertion 8c at tention so farr as your Mind is engaged in the making of Money for there never was so fair an opportunity of making a large Fortune since I have been Conversant in the World and You may assure yourself and all Concerned in this matter that I will manage what ever comes here to the utmost advantage and make the most im mediate returns for the Value, therefore I hope you will execute something Considerable without delay. I am sorry to tell you that Coll Harrison is now left out of Congress 8c set off for Virginia Yesterday. Mr Dickenson is also out 8c at present none of the Committee here but Dr. Franklin 8c myself. We must move for an addition to this Committee as Mr. Jay stays in New York 8c Mr. Johnston in Maryland. There are many changes in Congress since you left us some for the better & some Worse. Our Frigates are really fine ships and the Marine Committee have it in charge to report ways 8c means for increasing it and this can be done with great facility 8c dispatch, so that you may expect these States to become very formidable on the Seas next Summer or sooner. However I must referr you to the Public papers for News as I have sent a good many to Messrs. Delap 8c wrote to Jno. Bradford Esqr. at Boston to send more from thence.
