662 August 12, 1776 He did not go to N. Carolina because [Ac] received intelligence the enemy’s force had gone from there & from S. Cara, to Georgia. (His men recovered as he got to the Southward). He did not go to S. Carolina for the same reason & because had no pilots. He did not go to Georgia because enemy’s ships as he heard were all there & too strong. He app[ointe]d Abaco as a rendezvous, 8c to wait there 15 days for each other; he chose that place because nearer to Georgia than to S. Carolina. He got there with all his fleet except the Fly 8c Hornet, 8c as he was to wait 15 days for them he thought he might as well form [an] expedition somewhere. He heard from (a whaler I be lieve) that there was 200 barrels of powder cannon 8cc. at [New] Providence belonging to king. He therefore went there. But the night he arrived the Governor removed the powder. He took the cannon. He did not go to Savanna because while at Providence he heard all the enemy’s fleet had assembled there 8c were too strong for him. On his return Northwardly he took a bomb brig for which [he] received thanks of Congress. He carried [the] cannon to Rhode Isld. rather than to the Caro linas because [they were] not wanting in the Carolinas, 8c he thot he could get more safely into Rhode Isld. He did not deliver them to Govr of Connecticut as ordered by Congress, because he had them as ballast, and found he could not get ballast at N London without sending to N. York, a delay which he could not admit, as Gen. Washington wrote him he apprehended the enemy would attempt to block him up in N. London. He delivered them to Govr. Cook of Rh. Isld. because he offered him pig iron as ballast in lieu of them, 8c Govr. Cook undertook to deliver them to order of Congress. After he returned from Providence he was not at liberty to go to the Carolinas because his instructions directed him to go to Rh. Isld. Had not pilots to carry him into inlets of N. Carolina or over Charles town bar. Commodore did not send vessel for intelligence into Southern colonies because both Fly 8c Hornet parted with him within 2 days after sailed, in bad weather 8c the Hornet never joined him, the Fly not till he got to Providence. A clause in his instructions authorized him to depart from his instructions if in his discretion he thought it for the public good. If he was mistaken then it was no crime.
