August 12, 1776 663 Instructions are never given positively & it is right they should not be, because of change of circumstances. II. The Commodore had a premeditated design not to go to the Southern colonies but to Providence Because he did not send into Chesapeak for certain intelligence. Because he did not send his vessel of intelligence into N. Caro lina, but only sais he heard enemy had left that place whereas in truth the Cruiser remained there alone & had above 50 prizes with her. Because he did not send into So Carolina for intelligence. He had better gone there for rendezvous than to Abaco be cause Gadsden had promised him on seeing signals to send out Pilot boats. because he might have crossed the bar because it was nearer to Georgia than Abaco was. Because 2 days before he got to Abaco he told Major Nicholas he was to go to Providence, whereas he sais in his defence he did not intend to go there till he reached Abaco, (the rendezvous ap pointed) & then finding the Fly & Hornet separated he thought he might as well employ the time of 15 days which was agreed on to wait there, in some expedition. The not meeting the Fly & Hornet could not prevent him from going to Savannah because they were mere vessels of intelligence, not of force. They only carried, one of them swivels, the other 3. or 4 Ibers. There was no cannon in N. Carolina, so were much wanting there. He was furnished with 2 vessels on purpose to procure sure in telligence to direct his motions, particularly the Fly a very swift vessel was bought & fitted out on purpose. After the expedition to Providence why did not he then go to Carolinas or Southern colonies, that being not only the main object of his expedition, but in truth the object of equipping the Navy. His management of engagement with Glasgow shews he wanted skill & activity. Cannon not wanting for ballast because two of his officers say she had still ballast with which she had gone to Providence & returned. He ought to have obeyed Congress in delivering cannon. Tho’ he was come out of the harbor of New London with the cannon on board, he ought to have returned with them. Objection that he had no pilots to carry him into inlets of N. Carolina and bar of Charles town not good, because he knew that
