670 August 13, 1776 you an answer. I have exactly the same Idea of him, which you express. He had the good of the Service at Heart, but was too Sanguine, and had too little Experience in such Scenes, and too little Penetration into the Characters of Men. 2 I lament the wretched State of your Army: but am happy to find by your last Letter to Congress, that Things are getting into a better Train. The Small Pox must be cleansed out of the Army, or it will be undone. A Circular Letter went, Sent to you or to General Schuyler, for a compleat Return of every Thing in your Depart ment to the War Office. We have as yet reed no answer. Let me beg of you to transmit it as soon as possible. The Want of regular Returns has ruined our affairs in Canada, and without them from every Department, We shall ever be in Confusion. Since the Receipt of your Letter, I have procured Resolutions to be past that regular Returns shall be made at least once a Month, by the Commanding officer, the Pay master, the Quarter Master, Muster Master, and Commissary, 3 and if these Returns are not now made, I think there will Inquiries [be?] made, into the Cause of the [Neglect?], which will not be very pleasant to the Negligent. We shall know who is General, who Qu[arte]r M[aste]r, who Paymaster, who Commissary and who Muster Master, impor tant secrets in Canada, which all our Penetration was never able to discover. We are very anxious, for you and your Army, as well as for the General and his at New York. We expect some bold strokes from the Enemy, but I dont believe that How and Burgoigne will unite their Forces this year. Aug. 14. Since the above was written We reed your Return. It is the most Systematical that I have seen. Your letter gives us great Joy- 4 LB (MHi). ’These letters are in Bernhard Knollenberg, ed., “The Correspondence of John Adams and Horatio Gates,” Proceedings of the Massachusetts Historical Society 67 (March 1942): 145-48. For Samuel Chase’s angry response to Gates’ July 17 letter, which was critical of Chase, see Samuel Chase to Horatio Gates, August 9, 1776. ’According to Benjamin Rush’s later recollection, Adams once sharply attacked Chase “in a debate in which Mr. C insinuated the New England troops, as the principal cause of the failure of the expedition into Canada.” Although Rush’s account contains no information on precisely when this caustic exchange took place, it seems likely that it was during July or August 1776 when the report of the committee “to enquire into the cause of the miscarriages in Canada” was discussed in Congress. Adams, Rush wrote, replied that “the cause of the failure of that expedition was chiefly to be ascribed to the impudence of the gentleman from Maryland who has fomented jealousies and quarrels between the troops from the New England and Southern States in his visit to Canada, and (said Mr. Adams) if he were now penetrated, as he ought to be, with a sense of his improper and
