August 13, 1776 671 wicked conduct, he would fall down upon his knees upon this floor, and ask our forgiveness. He would afterwards retire with shame, and spend the remainder of his life in sackcloth and ashes, deploring the mischief he has done his country.” Benjamin Rush, The Autobiography of Benjamin Rush, ed. George W. Corner (Princeton: Published for the American Philosophical Society by Princeton Uni versity Press, 1948), pp. 140-41. ’These resolves were adopted August 2, 1776. JCC, 5:627-28. * Gates’ August 5 letter to Hancock, which was read in Congress on August 15 and contained “a general return of this army,” is in PCC, item 154, 1:27-43. The “general return” has not been found, but Gates’ letter has been printed under the date August 6, in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:795-97. John Adams to Henry Knox Dear sir Philadelphia August 13. 1776 Yours of July 29, I duely received—But had not the Pleasure of Seeing Mr Byers the Cannon Founder. Mr. Paine who is upon the Cannon Committee, I suppose has attended to him. 1 He informs me that the Committee of which he is one are taking Measures to procure Copper as well as sulphur to be made in New Jersey. I have obtained from a Gentleman here, very particular Directions concerning Fire ships and Rafts, and Receipts for all the Compositions. They are long and will be some trouble to transcribe. But if this Business lies within your Department, and you have any Curiosity to see it, I will send it you. I am very much chagrined that the Massachusetts has not its Proportion of General officers. I wish I was better acquainted with the Persons and Characters of the Colonells from that State. It will never do, for the Massachusetts to furnish so many Men, and have so few Generals while so many other States furnish so few Men and have so many Generals. I am, sir, your humble servant, John Adams RC (MHi). ’For additional information on James Byers’ activities, see Robert Treat Paine to Henry Knox, July 27 and August 22, 1776. Thomas Jefferson to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir Philadelphia Aug. 13. 1776. Yours of Aug. 3 came to hand yesterday. 1 Having had no mo ment to spare since, I am obliged to sit down to answer it at a Committee table while the Committee is collecting. My thoughts therefore on the subject you propose will be merely extempore. The opinion that our lands were allodial possessions is one which I have very long held, and had in my eye during a pretty consider-
