672 August 13, 1776 able part of my law reading which I found alwais strengthened it. It was mentioned in a very hasty production, intended to have been put under a course of severe correction, but produced afterwards to the world in a way with which you are acquainted. 2 This opinion I have thought and still think to prove if ever I should have time to look into books again. But this is only meant with respect to the English law as transplanted here. How far our acts of assembly or acceptance of grants may have converted lands which were allodial into feuds I have never considered. This mat ter is now become a mere speculative point; and we have it in our power to make it what it ought to be for the public good. It may be considered in two points of view 1st. As bringing a revenue into the public treasury. 2. As a tenure. I have only time to suggest hints on each of these heads. 1. Is it consistent with good policy or free government to establish a perpetual revenue? Is it not against the practice of our wise British ancestors? Have not instances in which we have departed from this in Virginia been constantly condemned by the universal voice of our country? Is it safe to make the govern ing power when once seated in office, independent in it’s revenue? Should we not have in contemplation and prepare for an event (however deprecated) which may happen in the possibility of things; I mean a re-acknolegement of the British tyrant as our king, arid previously strip him of every prejudicial possession? Remember how universally the people run into the idea of recall ing Charles the 2d after living many years under a republican government. As to the second was not the separation of the property -from the perpetual use of lands a mere fiction? Is not it’s history well known, and the purposes for which it was introduced, to wit, the establishment of a military system of defence? Was it not afterwards made an engine of immense oppression? Is it wanting with us for the purpose of military defence? May not it’s other legal effects (such of them at least as are valuable) be performed in other more simple ways? Has it not been the practice of all other nations to hold their lands as their personal estate in absolute do minion? Are we not the better for what we have hitherto abolished of the feudal system? Has not every restitution of the antient Saxon laws had happy effects? Is it not better now that we return at once into that happy system of our ancestors, the wisest and most perfect ever yet devised by the wit of man, as it stood before the 8th century? The idea of Congress selling [our?] unlocated lands has been sometimes dropped, but we have alwais met the hint with such determined opposition that I believe it will never be proposed. I am against selling the lands at all. The people who will migrate to the Westward whether they form part of the old, or of a new colony will be subject to their proportion of the Continental debt then un paid. They ought not to be subject to more. They will be a people
