August 13, 1776 673 little able to pay taxes. There is no equity in fixing upon them the whole burthen of this war, or any other proportion than we bear ourselves. By selling the lands to them, you will disgust them, and cause an avulsion of them from the common union. They will settle the lands in spite of every body. I am at the same time clear that they should be appropriated in small quantities. It is said wealthy foreigners will come in great numbers, and they ought to pay for the liberty we shall have provided for them. True, but make them pay in settlers. A foreigner who brings a settler for every 100, or 200 acres of land to be granted him pays a better price than if he had put into the public treasury 5/ or 5£. That settler will be worth to the public 20 times as much every year, as on our old plan he would have paid in one paiment only. I have thrown these loose thoughts together only in obedience to your letter. There is not an atom of them which would not have occurred to you on a moment’s contemplation of the subject. Charge yourself therefore with the trouble of reading two pages of such undigested stuff. By Saturday’s post the General wrote us that Ld. Howe had got (I think 100) flat bottomed boats along side, and 30 of them were then loaded with men; by which it was concluded he was preparing to attack. 3 Yet this is Tuesday and we hear nothing further. The General has by his last return, 17000 some odd men, of whom near 4000 are sick and near 3000 at our posts in Long Island &c. So you may say he has but 10000 effective men to defend the works of New York. His works, however are good and his men in spirits, which I hope will be equal to an addition of many thousands. He had called for 2000 men from the flying camp which were then embarking to him and would certainly be with him in time even if the attack was immediate. The enemy have (since Clinton and his army joined them) 15,000 men of whom not many are sick. Every influence of Congress has been exerted in vain to double the General’s force. It was impossible to prevail on the people to leave their harvest. That is now in, and great numbers are in motion, but they have no chance to be there in time. Should however any disaster befall us at New York they will form a great army on the spot to stop the progress of the enemy. I think there cannot be less than 6 or 8000 men in this city and between it and the flying camp. Our council complain of our calling away two of the Virginia battalions. 4 But is this reason able. They have no British enemy, and if human reason is of any use to conjecture future events, they will not have one. Their Indian enemy is not to be opposed by their regular battalions. Other colonies of not more than half their military strength have 20 battalions in the feild. Think of these things and endeavor to reconcile them not only to this, but to yield greater assistance to the common cause if wanted. I wish every battalion we have was now in New York. We yesterday received dispatches from the Commissioners at Fort Pitt. I have not
