674 August 13, 1776 read them, but a gentleman who has, tells me they are favorable. The Shawanese and Delawares are disposed to peace. I believe it, for this reason. We had by different advices information from the Shawanese that they should strike us, that this was against their will, but that they must do what the Senecas bid them. At that time we knew the Senecas meditated war. We directed a declaration to be made to the six nations in general that if they did not take the most decisive measures for the preservation of neutrality we would never cease waging war with them while one was to be found on the face of the earth. They immediately changed their conduct and I doubt not have given corresponding information to the Shawanese and Delawares. I hope the Cherokees will now be driven beyond the Missisipi and that this in future will be declared to the Indians the invariable consequence of their beginning a war. Our contest with Britain is too serious and too great to permit any possibility of avocation from the Indians. This then is the season for driving them off, and our Southern colonies are happily rid of every other enemy and may exert their whole force in that quarter. I hope to leave this place some time this month. I am Dr. Sir Your affectionate friend, Th: Jefferson P.S. Mr. Madison of the college and Mr. Johnson of Fredsbgh. are arrived in New York. They say nothing material had happened in England. The French ministry was changed. RC (MeHi). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:491-94. 1 For Pendleton's August 3 letter, as well as his August 26 response to this Jefferson letter, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:484-85, 507-8. 2 In Jefferson's draft instructions for Virginia’s delegates to the First Continental Congress, published as A Summary View of the Rights of British America, he had argued that “our Saxon ancestors held their lands, as they did their personal property, in absolute dominion, disencumbered with any superior.” Ibid., p. 132. s Washington’s August 8 letter to Hancock, which was read in Congress on the 12th, is in PCC, item 152, 2:363-67, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:402-6. 4 See the Virginia Council’s August 3 letter, which was read in Congress on the 12th, in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:736. See also John Hancock to Andrew Lewis, July 22, 1776. Francis Lewis to Elizabeth Gates Dear Madam 1 Phila. 13 Augt. 1776 I was favoured with your letter of the 6th Instant, wch. gave me the greater pleasure as it was delivered me by your son. He set of[f] this morning for PrinceTown in order to settle some matters with Mr. Wetherspoon. In my conversation with Bob upon the present
