684 August 15, 1776 much concern. The Massachusetts, which furnishes so many Men, has only two Generals, When other Colonies, which furnish very few Troops, have many more Generals. This I much fear will give disgust and discontent both to the People of the Colony and to the officers and Soldiers from that State. That Province never did and never will desire more than its just Proportion of the good Things of this Life, but I am vastly deceived in its Character if it can bear to have less. Will you drop me a Line now and then? There is a Person who has been in some Place under you, whose Honesty, Diligence and Capacity for Business, intitle him to some thing much better than he has ever had. He has the Additional Claim of Suffering to a large amount, having been robbed in Boston of his all which was something handsome too. His Name is Na thaniel Cranch. If any Thing could be given him, better than what he has, it could not be more honestly bestowed. 3 I am LB (MHi). 1 Thomas Mifflin’s August 5 letter is in the Adams Papers, MHi. 2 See JCC, 5:656; and John Hancock to George Washington, July I, 1776, note 1. 3 See John Adams to Richard Cranch, August 2, 1776. Philip Livingston to Robert R. Livingston Dr. Sir Phila. 15th Augt. 1776. I reed, yours of the 11th Inst, this Day in Congress. The Post was gone before the house broake up, which put it out of My power to return you an Answer by him as you requestd. The N. York repre sentation at Congress is reduced to three which renders the Con stant Attendance of Every one here necessary. The Question, whether I would Accept of the Office of Govr. If the Convention Shd. Chuse me, is Important. I will give you my Ansr. with the utt- most Candour. I would much rather the Convention would not make Choice of me, for this only reason, that I am Concious of my unfitness for that Important office wch. will undoubtedly require a person of more Activity in business than I fear I should be. I trust you Know me too well to Suppose that this is a Sort of Nolo Episcopari. I have no Clerical Hypocricy abt. me, at Least I believe not. I Shall not however refuse to Accept, If the Convention Shd. think it for the Public Interest to Appoint me, Least my refusal Shd. be Construed by Some As A desertg the righteous Cause in which this Country is So deeply Engaged, at a Most dangerous Crisis, when the Enemy are, with a powerfull fleet & Army, Stareing us in the face, ready to devour us & Consequently the Most Stren uous Efforts 8c the utmost Exertions of Every Membr. of the Com munity are become Absolutely & Immediately Necessary. At so
