August 15, 1776 685 Critical a moment it might have a bad Effect to have it Even sup posed that any one who has had an Early part to Act in this Contest Shd. not remain Ready to Step forward when Called upon by the Public. I shall therefore think it my duty to Acquiece in Whatever the Convention Shall determine, but Most heartily 8c Sincerely wish that this Matter Might Appear to them in Such a Light, that they might See it More for the Public Interest to appoint some Other person. 1 I shall to Morrow with the Other deligates write to the Conven tion which Ought to have been done Some time Ago, but our Apol ogy is a True One, We have really been Exceeding busy. Your Most Obedt servant, Phil. Livingston RC (N). 1 George Clinton was elected the first governor of New York under the new state constitution in July 1777. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings Augt. 15. 1776. Come. met. Present Messrs. Morris, Lewis, Bartlett, Hewes & Livingston. Ordered that Captains Read 8c Falconer be requested to measure the bales of Canvass imported in the ship Morris from Havre de Gras in order that the freight may be ascertaind, wch. by contract is to be pd. in proportion to 10s sterlg. for a barrel of pow der. 1 The Come, considerg. the favorable opportunity that now presents for shipping off produce from this port, 8c other places to the Southward, the Enemy’s men of war being gone, Agreed that the sum of 80,000 dlls be advancd Mr. Morris to be by Him laid out in produce 8c exported on continental acct. Accordingly an order was drawn on the Treasurer in his favor for that Sum. The Committee have agreed with G. Meade 8c Co. Owners of the Brigantine Two Friends, Capt. Vickorey, to charter sd. vessel, for a voyage to Hispaniola 8c back, at the rate of 7s 6d Currency per bar. of flour outward, 10s cury. per bar. powder inward. The vessel to be insurd by Come, valued £1200. Issued order on the Treasurer in favor of G. Meade 8c Co. for 619 73/90 dollars being the amount of their Acct, for sundry charges 8c one month’s freight of the Brigne Friendship. Order on the Trea surer in favor of Robt. Briges for 340 being for freight of G. powder from St. Eustachia. Do. in favor Messrs Willing, Morris 8c Co. for 4442 66/90 in full of a ballance due to them as per Acct, dated 14 Inst. Order on the Treasurer for 4266 2/3 dlls in favor of Bayard, Jackson 8c Co. being value of the Snow Dickenson charterd 8c insurd by the Come., carried into Bristol on her passage to Nantes by the
