Illustrations xxvii River so as to secure greater Spanish commitment to military coopera tion in North America. He also encouraged Congress to instruct its minister plenipotentiary in Paris to work closely with the comte de Vergennes in planning negotiations with Britain and generally enjoyed good relations with such key officials as the American secre tary of foreign affairs, Robert R. Livingston. In June 1784, he returned to France, ostensibly on leave of absence, but he studiously avoided returning to America and in 1787 secured the more presti gious post of ambassador to London. Portrait by Charles Willson Peale. Independence National Histori cal Park Collection. William Ellery 238 Ellery, a Newport lawyer, had graduated from Harvard College and briefly tried his hand as a merchant before taking up the law and stepping onto the stage of public life during the Stamp Act crisis. Elected to succeed Samuel Ward in Congress in 1776, Ellery quickly became identified with efforts to create a strong Continental Navy, in part because of his state’s early advocacy of a naval build up. He was elected to Congress seven times from 1776 to 1784, signed the Declaration of Independence, and repeatedly served on the Marine Committee and Committee of Commerce in recognition of his abilities in those fields. Service on the Committee of Appeals also added to his experience in maritime cases and, upon its creation in 1779, he was appointed to the new Board of Admiralty, to which he was also appointed as a noncongressional commissioner following his failure to be reelected as a delegate in 1780. He was reelected to Congress in 1781 and 1783-84, however, after which he returned to Rhode Island permanently, holding the positions of Continental Loan Office commissioner for Rhode Island from 1786 to 1790 and collector of customs for the district of Newport from 1790 until his death in 1820 at age 92. Portrait by James Reid Lambdin after a work by John Trumbull. Independence National Historical Park Collection. George Plater 354 Born and reared at “Sotterley,” the family estate in St. Mary’s County, Md., Plater graduated from the College of William and Mary in 1753 and turned to the legal profession. He began his public career as justice of the peace of St. Mary’s County, served as a delegate in the lower house of the Maryland Assembly, 1757-66, and held appointments as naval officer of the Patuxent district and as a member of the Executive Council before the Revolution. In 1776 he was elected to the Maryland Council of Safety and in 1778 to Congress, where he served three terms, until 1780. His committee
