xxviii Illustrations assignments were less numerous than those of many delegates, although he was a member of the standing Marine Committee. He and his wife were warm friends of Gouverneur Morris, who received their nurturing care after he lost a leg in a carriage accident in Philadelphia in 1780. They corresponded regularly with him when not in Pennsylvania. Plater was elected to the Maryland Senate from St. Mary’s County after the Revolution and was active in the move ment to obtain ratification of the new federal Constitution in 1787-88. He was elected governor of Maryland in 1791 but occu pied that post less than a year before his death in 1792 at the age of 66. Gratz Collection, the Historical Society of Pennsylvania. James Lovell’s instructions in use of diplomatic ciphers 442 From the creation of a network of American agents and correspon dents abroad in 1775-76, Congress experimented with invisible ink and various diplomatic codes and ciphers, often successfully but not without considerable frustration. Lovell’s interest in cryptography, his position on the Committee for Foreign Affairs, and his unequaled continuous attendance at Congress from 1777 to 1782 made him the key figure in the use of such systems, which repeatedly led him to undertake the education of the American commissioners abroad in the use of ciphers. His polyalphabetic grid system was transparently simple in conception but frustrating to use in practice, often leading John Adams and Benjamin Franklin to despair when attempting to decipher Lovell’s letters. The February 24, 1780, letter from Lovell to Franklin illustrated here contains one of the fullest and clearest expositions of the use of his system. From the Benjamin Franklin Papers, American Philosophical Society. Samuel Livermore 499 Little is known of Livermore’s early life, which was spent in Massachusetts, where he taught school briefly before attending the College of New Jersey to prepare himself for the ministry. He subse quently turned to the study of law and opened a practice in Waltham, Mass., before moving to Portsmouth, N.H., and becoming connected to Gov. John Wentworth, whose patronage brought him an appoint ment as attorney general in 1769. Thereafter he was seldom out of public office, although he soon moved to the wilderness village of Holderness, N.H., and for a time subordinated his public career to the acquisition of a vast landed estate. It was perhaps this facet of his activities that led New Hampshire to appoint him commissioner and
