Illustrations xxix a special delegate to Congress in 1779 to represent the state’s claims in the New Hampshire Grants controversy with the Vermont settlers. But Congress was unable to get the parties to the dispute together during the brief time he attended in February 1780. Hearings on the case were postponed until May, by which time Livermore’s cre dentials had expired and he returned home. He returned to Con gress as a delegate in 1781-82 and 1785-86, during which terms he was appointed to many committees, particularly those relating to western lands and Indian affairs. He served several years as chief justice of the superior court of New Hampshire, represented the state in the first two federal Congresses, and was elected twice to the United States Senate, from which he resigned in 1801 because of ill health. He died in 1803 a few days before his 71st birthday. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress. LC- USZ62-54687. Congressional resolution of March 18, 1780, devaluing the Continental dollar 522 Following numerous unsuccessful attempts to curb the catastrophic depreciation of the Continental dollar that had destroyed the credi bility of its financial system, Congress yielded to the inevitable and officially devalued the dollar at the ratio of 40 to 1 on March 18, 1780. Retirement of the bills in circulation was left to the states, which were to collect them in taxes and return them to the Continental Treasury in payment of their fiscal quotas, set at a $15 million monthly total. One-twentieth of the bills destroyed were to be reis sued in new bills bearing interest at the rate of 5 percent per annum to be redeemed in six years, ostensibly “in sterling bills of exchange, drawn by the United States on their commissioners in Europe,” who had no prospects whatever of defraying such expenses. The exhorta tion contained in the preamble of the resolves embodying this deci sion had little effect on the establishment of the “appropriate funds” required to “ensure the punctual redemption of the bills,” and in the meantime Congress proceeded with plans for in-kind requisitions from the states to provision and supply the Continental Army in 1780. From the Continental Congress Miscellany, Manuscript Division, Library of Congress.
