6 October 1, 1779 Assembly are ready to confer with the Committee of Congress at Such time as they Shall appoint, & notify the Committee of the Assembly. 1 I am Sir with Esteem, your humble Servant, Sami. Huntington RC (DNA: PCC, item 19). Addressed: “For the Honble Mr Root &c, Committee in the Case Sloop Active &c.” 1 In response to a memorial from Gideon Olmsted, Congress appointed a commit tee on September 29, consisting of Jesse Root, William Paca, and. Henry Laurens, “relative to carrying into execution the decree of the court of appeals concerning the sloop Active.” JCC, 15: 1122. When Huntington communicated this information to Pennsylvania, the assembly immediately appointed Joseph Gardner, John Smilie, and Thomas Smith to confer with Root’s committee, but this gesture represented no capitulation on the part of Pennsylvania to Continental authority in admiralty appeals. The state’s position had been forcefully presented in a series of assembly resolves on March 10, 1779, and the assemblymen appointed to confer with Root’s committee were strictly instructed “that they observe the former Resolutions of the House on this subject as the rule of their conduct.” The September 30 “Act of Assembly” instructing the Pennsylvania conferees, which Huntington enclosed with this note to Root, is in PCC, item 19, 4:499. For the background and other aspects of this case, see also these Letters, 11:341-43, 516- 17, 525-26; and William Churchill Houston to Caleb Camp, November 12, 1779, note 2. Henry Laurens’ duties on this committee may also have been the occasion for his drafting the following undated motion concerning prize shares, which survives among his papers. “Resolved, that from & after this day the Captors of all prizes made by any Ship or other Vessel in Continental service shall be entitled to & enjoy the whole amount or value of such prizes without deduction any Resolve of Congress to the contrary notwithstanding.” Laurens Papers, no. 20, ScHi. Samuel Huntington to Jeremiah Wadsworth Sir Philadelphia Octor 1st. 1779 You will herewith receive an Act of Congress, directing, (among other thing) that the Marine Committee give the Necessary Orders to enable the Commissary General to perform his engagments Actu ally made with the people, for sugar &C. 1 You will observe this measure is Justified from Necessity alltho’ Congress cannot approve of making purchases in Ordinary Cases otherwise than for money. I am with Esteam, Your humble Servt, Sami. Huntington President RC (CtHWa: James Wadsworth Collection). 1 See JCC, 15:1130-32; and Huntington to George Clinton, this date. Although Congress hereby endorsed Wadsworth’s “engagement” to exchange flour from New York for sugar and rum from Massachusetts, it simultaneously declared this barter transaction to be a special exception to Continental policy and announced disapproval of “any purchases in ordinary cases, otherways than for money.”
