10 October 2, 1779 as true as any in Euclid. I am confirmed in it by observing that the most candid People are of that way of Thinking, and those who are interested, particularly in the Mode in which what are called the Crown-lands, are disposed of, seem put to Difficulty in controuling their Consciences when they abet it. I often think that I would not submit to be roasted and basted as the Virginians and our Southern Friends are upon this Subject; for all the Lands will ever produce to their respective States. But like true Statesmen they do and bear any Thing on this Score. The Virginians endeavour to shelter them selves under an Argument which I never heard till I came to Congress, that they disputed the Right of the Crown to any Lands within the Bounds of their Charter, and contended for an Immunity from any Payments whatever claimed in Virtue of such Right; that Nothing but Force could have compelled such Payments from them; and that by joining with their Sister-states to renounce the Power and Jurisdiction of Great-Britain, they have only gained what other States have, — their Bounds. They add moreover, and persist in it, that the Settlement and Sale of these Lands will never be of any Value to their Treasury, or give them any available Assistance in discharging their Quota of the Continental Debt. This is in Part true & in Part problematical. Ingenious Men will speculate and refine up on any Subject, and the Truth or Falsehood of its goes out of Sight in the Multiplicity of Argument and Bluster of Utterance. Two Memo rials lately came into Congress, one from the Proprietours of a Tract of Land on the Ohio called Indiana, granted by the Indians to a Company of Traders who had suffered Losses by their Means in the Course of Traffick; and the other from a number of Grantees of a large Tract including the former called Vandalia, 2 and which a little before the Commencement of the present Troubles it was in Con templation to erect into a new Government. With both these Grants the Virginians have interfered, and the Memorialists complain of the Interference, and pray that they may not be deprived of their Property, and that Vandalia may be erected into, and acknowledged as a free State. This gave Alarm to the Virginians; they object to the Jurisdiction of Congress to receive or take Order on the Memorials, and in this Situation the Matter lies. How it will terminate, I am not able to conjecture. I think Congress are nearly equally divided upon the Question relative to the vacant Lands, and this being the Point to which Maryland most strenuously adheres, others are more out of Sight, but certainly it is not the only one in the Confederation where Justice does not seem to be strictly consulted. There are others little inferiour in my Judgment, though not so much discussed. The Vir ginians tell me they have made ample Provision to settle the Soldiers of any State, who will come and settle on their Lands without any Expense to the State from which they come; 3 and this would be of some Moment were it not for losing the Inhabitants, which for our Part we shall want at the End of the War. If any Thing relative to the
