14 October 2, 1779 £1000—in full of all expences &c. My protest against both stands on the Book No! Men who are sincerely devoted to the service of their Country will not accept of Salaries which will tend to distress it. RC (ScHi: Laurens Papers). 1 For John’s recommendation of Capt. Richard Brooke Roberts, see Laurens to John Laurens, September 21, 1779, note 1. Henry Marchant to John Adams Dear Sir, Philadelphia Octr. 2d. 1779 By the last Post I was highly gratified by your kind & very polite Favour of the 10th of Sepr. The Notice & Recollection of my former Letter sufficiently convinces me that You have not forgot an old Friend. In your Absence I had frequent Temptations to write You; but I was affraid of being amongst the Number of troublesome and useless Correspondants. We have finished Our foreign Affairs that mostly pressed upon Us. Your appointment will convince You, that however awkward Your Situation has been, it was not from any Alteration of Sentiment towards you since your first Appointment as one of Our Commrs. at Paris. 1 must hope, however hurksome the Task, You will once more be induced to quit the Rank of a Citizen to become a Servant of the Publick. We must all look back at Our first setting out; and take Spirit from those Principles which first annimated Our Souls; and which we lament that torpid, base Degeneracy, which hath seized too many, we must not suffer Ourselves to faint, or repine at Our Burthens. Mr. Dana is appointed Secretary, I rather wish for, than expect his Acceptance, Yet I will hope that every Obstacle will give way to the good of his Country. If Mr. Dana goes he will be ready there should another Minister be wanted thro’ Death, Sickness or otherwise. I shall rejoice to hear of your safe Arrival at Paris; And shall esteem myself truly happy in your Correspondance; for with great Esteem I am your, sincere Friend & Servt. Hy. Marchant RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Samuel Huntington to Thomas Johnson Sir, Philadelphia Octobr. 3d. 1779. You will herewith receive enclosed an Act of Congress of the 2d Instant recommending to the Governor & Council of Maryland, to permit as much bread, flour and wheat, to be exported for the State of Virginia, as the said State may want for its public supply. 1
