October 4, 1779 15 1 have the honor to be, with sentiments of esteem, Your Excel lency’s Humble servt, Sami. Huntington President 2 RC (MdAA: Red Books). In the hand of George Bond and signed by Huntington. 1 Congress adopted this resolve in response to a recent request from Virginia to the Maryland Council, which had been forwarded to Congress through the Maryland delegates. See JCC, 15:1137. Although the correspondence between Viginia and Mary land on this subject has not been found, a Maryland Council letter of October 8 directing Col. Samuel Smith to comply with this resolve is in Md. Archives, 21:552. See also Maryland Delegates to Thomas Johnson, October 4, 1779. 2 Huntington sent a nearly identical letter this day to Virginia governor Thomas Jefferson. See PCC, item 14, fol. 200; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2:100. Samuel Huntington to Meshech Weare Sir, Philadelphia Octobr. 3d. 1779. You will herewith receive enclosed an Act of Congress of the 2d Instant, repealing a Clause of an Act of Congress passed the 24th of September last, relative to a district of Country called New hamp- shire grants: and adopting another resolve as more adequate to the purposes intended in the former. 1 I am, Sir, with sentiments of esteem, Your humble servant, Sami. Huntington. President RC (MHi: Weare Papers). In the hand of George Bond and signed by Huntington. 1 For Congress’ “Act” of September 24, which was slightly amended by the October 2 resolve herewith transmitted to New Hampshire, see John Jay’s letters to Thomas Chittenden and to George Clinton of September 25, 1779. By its previous action, Congress had solicited authorization from New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and New York to proceed in determining the “New Hampshire Grants” dispute, “in the mode prescribed for such cases by the articles of confederation.” But as the pertinent ninth article of the confederation had been devised to deal simply with interstate disputes, Elbridge Gerry believed that it did not cover “disputes between any State and the grantees of any other State,” and he therefore moved this amend ment to close what he considered to be a loophole in the resolve of the 24th. JCC, 15:1135-36. President Huntington also sent this October 2 amendment this day to Massachusetts, New York, and Vermont in letters addressed to Jeremiah Powell, George Clinton, and Thomas Chittenden. PCC, item 14, fols. 200-201. For additional information, see also Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council, October 4; and John Jay to George Clinton, October 5, 1779. John Fell’s Diary Monday 4th [October 1779], Commercial Committee. Congress. This day spent in Reading dispatches, Memorials, Treasury Reports & c. NB a great tumult in the City and some Lives Lost, several Wounded and several sent to Goal. 1
