24 October 5, 1779 5, 1:344-50; and Laurens to Samuel Adams, this date. Thomson’s secret journal was often posted after the event. John Fell to Robert Morris Dear sir, Phila Octr 5t. 1779 I had the honour of writing you last Week supposing you to be at Trenton. Mr Huston inclosed my Letter to the speaker Mr Camp. 1 Yesterday I was favourd from Pompton with your very oblidging Letter of the 30th ulto. The good opin[ion] which you and other Gentlemen of the County, entertain of my conduct to induce you to Put me in nomination as a Candidate for the Council is a matter which requires my most gratefull thanks, but if I had ever so great an inclination to accept your kind offer, I dare not live at home, therefore if I must continue to be deprived of all Domestick Happyness, the being here on Account of safety, is the most Eligeable. I shall think myself happy to be left out in the next choice of Mem bers for Congress, lett my Collegues be whom they may. The one Principle reason & Objection that I have is being depriv’d of Mrs Fells Company ( A circumstance which you cannot be a Proper Judge of). I am exceeding glad of your good intention of going in to the Assembly, give me leave to say without flattery You will be a valuable acquisition in that House, but I do not see how the confinement is less. Now we have chiefly and to my great satisfaction got through Our foreign affairs; and I hope the Name of Lee will be no more mentiond, that we shall do business [in a] better humour. On Satur day we began with a Committee of the whole house to consider on Finance and ways and means to carry on the War, and in a few days I hope the Public will be made acquainted with what we expect from them so that we shall at least do Our Duty. Yesterday a great Mobb of Militia with their Arms Paraded the Streets under a Pretence of taking up and sending off Tories, they chiefly thretend Mr Wilson, the Lawyer. A number of Gentlemen got in the House with him to defend him, when those in the Street began to grow very Restive and at last fired in the House when the Batle became general. Some I beleave were Killd on Both sides and many wounded. When for- tunatly the President (Reed) came up at the head of the Light Horse and his Spirited behavour Put an end to the affair and a number of them, were sent to Prison. I have just now been told, that this morn ing has Produc’d fresh trouble, that the Rioters had swore vengence against a Major Lenox who was very Active Yesterday, and that the President had orderd the Light Horse out againe on the Occasion. I am very Respectfully, Your Most H Serv. John Fell RC (NjR: Robert Morris Papers). 1 Not found.
