October 5, 1779 25 James Forbes to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia Octobr 5th 1779 I have the pleasure of yours of the 30th Ulto. Inclosed you have the papers & a Second Essay on Trade & Finance: it is wrote by a Mr. Webster of this Town and I think contains many observations wor thy the particular attention of the several Legislatures. 1 No accounts from the southward since my last, every day expected and to hear of the French Fleet being off NYork—a very large Embarcation was taking place there said to be for the Southward Commanded by Lord Cornwalles but now expected to be stopt. The bad effects of the Committees in this Town has been experienced yesterday by a very daring & violent Insurrection & Mob, in which several Persons were Killed & wounded before they were quelled, many are made Prisoners, this morning they are collecting at Germantown and there is no judging how this unhappy affair may end. The amazing rise of every article in this place is truly allarming, Flour at £60 Per Ct, Rum £20 Per Gall. Adieu & be asshured that I ever am, My Dear Sir, Yours Sincerely, James Forbes RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 Pelatiah Webster’s Second Essay on Free Trade and Finance (Philadelphia: Thomas Bradford, 1779). See Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 16,671. William Churchill Houston to Caleb Camp Sir, 1 Philada. 5 October 1779. I am sorry that it has not been in my Power to command as much Time as I should have wished to employ, in giving a distinct Account to the Legislature of the most material Occurrences in the Progress of Business since I came to Congress. It is certainly the Duty of every Person in publick Trust to make those from whom he derives his Appointment acquainted with the Manner in which he executes it, that they may be enabled to decide how far he fulfils or deceives their Expectations, and to form, at any Time, a clear Estimate of his Character. Next to Want of Fidelity, I look upon the Neglect of giving due Information to his Constituents, the greatest Crime in a publick Man. The principal Intention of this is to point at a Question which from accidental Circumstances has acquired a Magnitude and Impor tance above what, simply considered, it was entitled to. A Question which has excited much Inveteracy and Ill-blood in Congress, and not a few Speculations and Suspicions abroad. I mean the Recal, or rather Supersession, of Mr. Arthur Lee, Commissioner of the United States at the Court of Madrid. I have carefully read over the Papers, and attended to every feasible Means of unbiassed Information rela-
