26 October 5, 1779 tive to this Question, and I think have done it with a Temper divested of Prejudice. The Result is this: I take Mr. Arthur Lee to be a man of a jealous, suspecting, difficult Disposition; trusty, capable and industrious. Indefatigable above others in procuring and transmit ting Intelligence, accurate and frugal in Expenses and Mony-matters, simple, severe and republican in his manners; so much so as to be thought by many sour and cynical. This I take to be his Character; and in many Essentials I am not afraid to call him equal to any Person Congress ever employed in a similar Capacity in Europe. The Story hawked about, that his Indiscretions prevented the Court of Spain from treating with him, I cannot think believed by those who propagate it, as that Conduct in the Spanish Ministry is ascrib able to very different Reasons which must strike every Person at once who has the least Knowledge of the State of matters as they respected that Power. But admitting he were the best-qualified and most meritorious Man on Earth, is it not my Duty to vote for remov ing him when the Time of Congress is absolutely wasted, and the publick Business not only retarded but stopped by unavailing Alterca tions concerning an Individual? When a General offers up a forlorn Hope to save an Army, the Alternative is dreadful; but the Principle is defensible and the Practice of it often necessary. I confess that in a republick, where Approbation, Honour and Praise, more than Money and Emoluments, are the Reward of faithful Services, such Things ought to be admitted with Reluctance and Caution; yet still they may not be always avoidable. But further, should it turn out to be a Fact that France was doubtful of him, and that Spain hesitated, it mat tered not how good a Man he was, one every way inferiour, if free from such Exception, would have been preferable for the Purpose of treating. The real Causes of Delay being now removed, it is to be hoped the gentleman who succeeds Mr. Lee will be successful. As I would ever wish to be simply just, but at the same Time to do what is best, all Things considered, I have no other Request than that this State of Facts may be remembered another Day, when Time will throw Light upon what is now dark, Prejudice will be extinct and the Means of judging fairly will come within the Reach of all. Into what Course of Conduct, or to what Length of Crimination, Resentment may impel this unfortunate Man, I am excused from surmising. Whether, as many have done, he will adhere to the Part he has taken in Spite of what he may think ill Treatment; or whether, as many have also done, he will transfer himself to a Situation where he will expect more Attention; does not belong immediately to the present Decision; at least, I have taken the Liberty to throw it out of the Balance. At all Events I am happy this troublesome Affair is ended, and I hope it will never rise up to disturb the Counsels of America more. Subjects of Contention and Animosity are retiring one after another, and Unanimity reviving in Congress where it is so essen tially necessary. Trifles have had their Day, and too long a one has it
