October 5, 1779 27 been; Matters of Moment have now a Claim to their, and that it may not only be longer, but perpetual, I am persuaded is the ardent wish of every honest Man. Upon reviewing what I have written, a Suspicion occurs that the above Representation may imply a Reflection on the Conduct of some of my Colleagus, which is as far from my Meaning as it would be repugnant to Justice. The Time is not the same, other Circum stances also disagree. On the contrary I must declare that I think their Situaton hard and undeserved. The whole Train of the Trans action I can trace minutely. To the Quarter from whence the Accusa tions have originated, the Motives which inspired them and the Instruments which have been employed for their Circulation I am not a Stranger, nor am I surprised at any Thing thus far. But that their Fellow-citizens should entertain Impressions unfavourable to those they once thought well of, and not call for an Investigation of their Conduct, or suspend their Opinions till an Explanation should be had, may perhaps be a Matter of some Discouragement. If the Gentlemen know what is alledged to their Charge, I am astonished they do not apply for an Opportunity of Justification. Certainly if I should ever be of Importance enough to be found fault with, I should expect the Liberty of explaining Facts and Motives; after that it is the Part of an honest Man to submit in Silence to the Judgment of those who have a Right to pass upon his Conduct. I enclose sundry Papers marked from Number 1 to 5 2 which I have met with since I came to this Place, and which I have copied for the Sight of such Gentlemen of the Legislature as may think it worth their Trouble to read them. They relate to a Matter which was before the Legislature at their last Sitting previous to the present. One, if not more of them, is on the Files of the Assembly. They may be of Use on some future Occasion, but my principal Object in copying them is to communicate the noble and dignified Sentiments of the Commander in Chief, and to give some Idea of the Difficul ties he has to encounter. If ever any Man deserved Gratitude and Confidence he does, and the more especially as his modesty will never allow him to be elated with the former, nor his goodness of Heart to abuse the latter. His Letter marked No. 2 is an Example of it’s Kind. It is necessary that I give you the Trouble of communicating to the Houses the Substance of this lengthened Letter. I have no Idea they will have Patience to go over the whole. I am, with due Respect, your obedt hble Servt, William Ch Houston RC (Nj: State Papers). 1 The recipient of Houston’s first “Account to the legislature” was identified by Edmund Burnett as Gov. William Livingston. Burnett, Letters, 4'ATi. The account, however, was probably addressed to Caleb Camp (1736-1816), of Essex Co., N.J., who
