October 6, 1779 35 Octr. 7. Thursday. A Court of inquiry met here this day, respect ing the persons killed a few days ago. 2 MS (MDaAr). 1 For Arnold’s request “for a gard,” see the following entry. 2 Holten is referring to the lives lost at the “Fort Wilson” riot. Samuel Huntington to Benedict Arnold Sir, In Congress Octr 6th 1779 The enclosd act contains the answer of Congress to your letter of this day which I communicated immediately upon the receipt of it. 1 I am &c., S. H. President LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 In his October 6 letter to Congress, Arnold had explained that he had been attacked recently by “A Mob of Lawless Ruffians” in the streets of Philadelphia and requested a Continental guard for his protection, as “there is no protection to be expected from the Authority of the State for an honest Man.” Arnold’s gratuitous remark against Pennsylvania was of course seen as an insult to the state, and in summarily rejecting the general’s request Congress added a slap to his wrists by affirming confidence in Pennsylvania officials and expressing disapproval of “the insinuations of every individual to the contrary.” He was instead advised, in the resolve Huntington enclosed with his letter, that his application for protection should have been made directly “to the executive authority of the State of Pennsylvania.” In a second letter to Huntington of this date, Arnold immediately offered an apology of sorts, explaining that he had doubted only Pennsylvania's “Abilities” not “Disposition” to protect him, but he could not resist concluding with the feisty warn ing that should he be attacked again he would defend himself “to the last Extremity” and presumed that Congress would not then hold him “Chargible for the Conse quences.” See JCC, 15:1147; and PCC, item 162, fols. 18591. For Arnold’s long feud with Pennsylvania, and the October 4 “Fort Wilson” riot which formed the immediate background to the present incident, see these Letters, 11:522-24, 12:95-96, 143, 152, 178-80, 329-30; and John Fell’s Diary, October 4, 1779, note. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen October 6th 1779 This will be forwarded to you from New London by Captain James Nicholson whom we have appointed to take the Command of the Ship Trumbull, and have referred him to the Orders he may receive from your Board in whatever relates to his Ship. 1 We request that you will immediately give him the necessary Instructions on that head, and take measures to have the Trumbull speedily fitted for Sea. Your recommendation of Captain Hinman shall have due weight the first opportunity, 2 but we could not appoint him to the com mand of this Ship without breaking a general rule which we had
