October 7, 1779 39 sincere in his attachment. Men of his Turn and Talk are always useful when properly directed. It is easily done by encouraging the good opinion he entertains of his own Importance. The exceeding high opinion entertained here of your Constitu tion and the wisdom of your Counsels, has made a deep Impression on many People of wealth and Consequence in this State, who are dissatisfied with their own; and unless their opinions should pre viously be changed, will remove to New York the moment the Enemy leave it. Mr. Gerard, (who seems better acquainted with Republics than almost any man I have ever known) has passed many Encomi ums on our Constitution & Government and I am persuaded, no Circumstance will conduce more to the Population of our Country by Migrations from others, than the Preservation of its Vigor and Reputation. This unhappy City is all in Confusion—the Government wants Nerves, and the public Peace has for some Days been destroyed by Mobs and Riots which seem to defy the authority of the Magistrate. This is one of the Fruits of their whimsical Constitution, and of the Countenance given to Committees & Let Politicians learn from this, to dread the least Deviation from the Line of Constitutional Authority. Obsta Principiis, is a good Maxim, but all have not sufficient Decision in their Conduct to observe it. Government once relaxed is not easily braced. And it is far more difficult to reassume Powers than permit them to be taken and executed by those who have no Right by the Constitution to hold them. Morris is again with us, and I am glad of it. His Constituents must be either infatuated or wretchedly misinformed, if they omit continu ing him in the Delegation. 2 But you know my Sentiments on this Subject, and it is unnecessary to dwell on it. For Heaven’s Sake, send an able Delegation and preserve the high Rank you hold among the States. I wish Hobart 3 may be sent; at this Season he would be partic ularly useful, and I am sure until your Vermont Business be over, a special occasion for his being here will clearly exist. One of the New Hampshire Delegates 4 seems much inclined to make the Ridge of mountains instead of Connecticut River, the Boundary between us; and that the Soil between the Mountains and the River should remain the Property of those to whom it had been granted either under New York or New Hampshire. He observed and I think with Propriety, that this Line by dividing the disaffected between the two States, would render the Reduction of them to good order less difficult, and by interesting both States in their Allegiance prevent their again acting in a Body or easily uniting their Counsell for Purposes injurious to Government. My Reply to this Gentleman was, that I had no Authority to say any thing on this Subject, that I knew the State of New York to be sincerely disposed to cultivate Harmony with her Neighbours, and was persuaded that no Settle ment founded injustice & mutual Convenience will be disagreable
