Octobers, 1779 47 Events. Let us all exert ourselves to the best of our abilities & let me add who can surmount difficulties better than your self. It is with pleasure I assure you that great Harmony & good humour Subsists in Congress with Close attention to business. I am with Sincerity your humbe Servt, Sami. Huntington RC (CtHWa: James Wadsworth Collection). 1 See Huntington to Wadsworth, October 1, 1779. 2 Wadsworth’s letter to Congress of October 4 and a similar letter from Washington was referred to a committee appointed to assist preparations for provisioning the Conti nental Army. See JCC, 15: 1151; and PCC, item 78, 24:93-96. See also Delaware, Maryland, and South Carolina Delegates to Thomas Johnson, October 9, 1779. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir Philadelphia Octor 8th. 1779 I had the honour to receive your Excellencies Letter of the 4th Instant this morning and have laid it before Congress. 1 Before this comes to hand you will receive the Act of Congress directing the North Carolina Troops to halt at Trenton and a Copy of the orders to Col. Clarke in Consequence of your former Letter. I have now the pleasure to acquaint your Excellency that Congress fully approve of your Orders, Countermanding the march of those Troops. I have the honour to be, with Sentiments of the greatest Esteem & Regard, Your Exys humble servant, Sami. Huntington President 3 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 For Congress’ response to this letter, see the following entry. 2 For “the Act of Congress directing the North Carolina Troops to halt at Trenton,” see Huntington to Washington, October 5, 1779. Congress’ approval of Washington’s order “Countermanding the march of those Troops” was not officially recorded in the journals, doubtless because its previous resolve of October 4 had simply provided that their halt was to be observed “till farther Orders.” 3 Huntington also wrote the following personal letter this day to Gov. William Living ston of New Jersey. “The congratulations your Excellency has been pleasd to honour me with in your favour of the 7th Instant command my most greatfull Acknowledgements. “At the same time permit me with sincerity to Adopt the Language of the roman sedile [a subordinate official originally charged with assisting the tribunes in the administra tion of public buildings], I call tbe Gods to witness (Says he) that how honorable soever this dignity seems to me I have too just a Sense of its weight not to have more solicitude & disquiet, than Joy and Pleasure from it. “If by any Civilities to those of your family in this City I have made my Self agreable it will give me Additional pleasure & Satisfaction. “Be assured Sir it will be my constant endeavour to pay proper Attention to whatever may relate to Govr Livingston.” William Livingston Papers, NN.
