48 October 9, 1779 Delaware, Maryland, and South Carolina Delegates to Thomas Johnson Sir, Phila. Sepr. [i.e. October] 9th. 1779 Your Excellency will be informed by the enclosed Copy of a Letter from the Commander in chief to Congress, that a large quantity of Flour will be immediately wanted for the Army. 1 We have calculated upon the State of Marylands furnishing Ten thousand Barrs, over and above what Mr. Holkers Agents want for the Count D. estaignes Fleet, which we have reason to believe is more than half laid in. The Agent for Virga should suspend his Purchases for that State till the Ten thousand Barrs, for General Washington are procured. Vessels must be had if possible for the Transportation of this Flour to such place or places as his Excellency the General shall hereafter direct. To enable you to furnish the Purchasers with Money, you will from time to time draw from your Treasury such sums as have, or may come into it from Continental Taxes; and whatever may be further wanted, must be sent from this place of which be pleased to forward an Estimate: But as the Continental Treasury is very low, we beg of you to press as little upon it as possible. Altho it is well known to the Enemy that the Count D’estaigne may be hourly expected, yet as it is not known that the General & he are to act in Concert, Congress have enjoined its Members to Secrecy, which you & the Council will be pleased to observe. With the greatest respect and esteem we are, Sir, Your Excellencys, Most Obedient Servts. Nich. Van Dyke James Forbes Wm. Paca Daniel of St Thos. Jenifer Jno. Mathews RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Jenifer and signed by Jenifer, Forbes, Mathews, Paca, and Van Dyke. 1 Washington’s concern stemmed from the anticipated arrival of the French fleet in North American waters and the needs of the troops of Gen. John Sullivan returning from the western expedition. In his October 4 letter to Congress, Washington explained that in anticipation of cooperating with the comte d’Estaing in “an attempt against New York” he had called upon Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania for 12,000 militia. Since Commissary General Jeremiah Wadsworth had informed him that beef was plentiful but flour was in short supply, Washington specifically urged that Gov. Thomas Johnson “be requested to push purchases” in Maryland, its wheat being “in more forwardness for grinding than any other.” In a letter of the same date, Wadsworth also informed Congress that he had been ordered by Washington “to Prepare to feed Ten thousand men; more than our present army.” And given the difficulty in procuring flour, Wadsworth asked that steps be taken to procure rice from South Carolina as well. Both letters were read in Congress on October 8 and referred to the delegates of Delaware, Maryland, and South Carolina, who reported this day. Congress there upon authorized the president of Delaware and the governors of Maryland and
