October 9, 1779 49 South Carolina to draw on “the several treasurers in those states” to purchase flour and rice from taxes to be levied according to the state quotas adopted on October 7. See JCC, 15:1150 51, 1157; PCC, item 152, 8:73-78; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 16: 406-9, 417n.81. 2 This day the committee also wrote the following letter to Caesar Rodney, president of Delaware: “By the inclosed Copy of General Washington’s Letter of the 4th Inst, to Congress, your Excellency will perceive the Reasons which induced the General to advise Con gress to call on the States therein Mentioned for an immediate large Supply of Flour, for the Army expected to be brought into the Field; “And altho the State of Delaware is not there Mentioned, as Congress deemed that an Omission in the hurry of Business, and their Duty to supply have included that State in their Requisition. “The Quantity for Delaware is 5,000 Barrels; Congress judges it prudent to keep this Matter as great a Secret as possible, as well to prevent the wicked Operations of our internal & infernal Enemy called Speculators &c as for other Obvious Reasons. “As it is absolutely Necessary this Bussiness be immediately set on Foot, with the utmost Industry and Spirit, the Committee have not the least Doubt of your Excellency’s vigorous assistance—to enable the Persons you may appoint to this Business to pro ceed therein sucessfully, inclosed you have a general Order of Congress on the Treasurer of your State for such Sums as may from Time to Time be found to be Necessary—and should that Fund prove insufficient you’l be pleased to give Con gress early Intelligence that Provision may be made Accordingly. “It will be necessary to have the Flour stored at the most proper & Convenient Landings in each County of your State, for Transportation; and when any Consider able Quantity is provided, Information thereof will be proper, that suitable Vessels may be provided to receive the same.” FMS Am 1300, MH-H. The committee undoubtedly prepared a similar letter for Gov. John Rutledge requesting rice from South Carolina, but it apparently has not survived. John Fell’s Diary Saturday October 9th [1779]. Coml Committee. Congress. After the dispatches were Read the Committee on Ways and mea[n]s brought in the draft of a Letter to be sent to the Governours and President of Each State for the Requi sition of the 15 Million &c. The Committee brought in the draught of Commission and Letter of Credence for the Secretary appointed to go to Spain. 1 MS (DLC). 1 In his diary for this day Samuel Holten merely recorded that “I dined with Mr. Laurens and about 12 more members of Congress. Mr. Lowell & Mr. Cleveland came to board with us. No news this day.” MDaAr. Cornelius Harnett to Thomas Burke My Dear Sir Philadelphia Octr. 9. 1779 I had the pleasure of receiving three letters from you while you was on the Road, which I answered some time ago. I am happy to
