October 12, 1779 57 13. Wednesday. I met a Committee this evening on Genl Arnold’s Accounts. 2 MS (MDaAr). 1 Neither of these letters has been found. Pulaski had been mortally wounded on October 9 during a cavalry charge against the British defenses at Savannah, Ga. 2 Holten had been appointed on October 1 to a committee to examine the accounts of Gen. Benedict Arnold for his nine months’ service as commandant of Philadelphia in 1778-79. See JCC, 15:1126, 1134; and John Fell’s Diary, October 1, 1779. Samuel Huntington to Philip Schuyler Sir, Philada. Octr 12th 1779 I am directed by Congress to lay before the Commissioners for indian Affairs in the northern district of which you have the honour to be Chairman copies of General Sullivan’s letter of the 2d instant, his Speech to the Oneidas &c and their Answer which you will receive herewith enclos’d. 1 I have the honour to be, with Sentiments of esteem & regard, your humble Servt, S. H. President LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 See JCC, 15:1161. In his October 2 letter to Congress, John Sullivan had expressed optimism that the measures he had recently taken would bring about the repentance of hostile Iroquois warriors and reassure the friendly Oneidas, who had long been favorably disposed to the United States. In his speech to the Oneidas, he had asserted that Congress would “totally extirpate the other five nations except those who have joined you & continued friends to the United States & such others as may think proper to come in & enter into a firm league to join our friends the Oneidas.” Sullivan’s letter to Congress, with his enclosed speech to the Oneidas and their response, are in Sullivan, Letters (Hammond), 3:137 41. The MSS of the first two documents are in PCC, item 160, fols. 328-33, but the last has not been found. Woodbury Langdon to Meshech Weare Sr. Philadelphia Octobr the 12 1779 The reasons why I have not done myself the honor of writing to you before are these. Soon after my arrival I was taken very ill of a Fever which confined me to my Bed a considerable time and since my recovery General Whipple has gone home who from his long residence and experience at Congress will be able to give you a more perfect Account of the transactions here than can be expected from me. Since my recovery I have attended Congress with the closest appli cation and shall endeavour to exert myself if my health continues to the utmost of my abilites while here. You will have received sundry Resolutions relative to Vermont from the President of Congress a
