64 October 12, 1779 says that an Attack had been made upon the Garrison at Beaufort, that after an Action of three Hours & a Quarter, it was carried, Nine hundred of the Enemy made Prisoners—All their Baggage & Stores taken, & their Shiping there destroyed—That the Count had ordered his Ships up the Savannah to cooperate with Genl. Lincoln. A few Days must give us full Information. Our Affairs Abroad are in the most prosperous Train. Most of the European Powers wish us well, and if all of them do not, we know of no Enemy but Britain— And we know not that they have a Friend in Heaven or Earth. It behoves us however to be our Own Friend—so may we expect the further Blessing of Heaven & the Completion—a happy Completion to the glorious struggle and I trust Heaven is ready to hand it out to Us as soon as we shall be fully disposed to receive it. That so glorious is the sincere prayer of Your Excellencys most obedient & very hum ble Servt. Hy. Marchant P.S. I enclose your Excellency the Weekly Journals of Congress in Course down to the 28th of August. RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 Rhode Island’s new assessment was $200,000 of the $15 million required from the states monthly for 1780 compared to $300,000 of the $15 million required for 1779. JCC, 13:28, 15:1150. 2 For New Jersey’s “Address,” see John Fell’s Diary, October 11, 1779. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen October 12th. 1779 We wrote you the 6th instant by Captain James Nicholson whom we have appointed to Command the Trumbull, since which we are favoured with yours of the 23rd ultimo. 1 We have now to inform you that we have named the New ship Building at Middleton the Bourbon and have given the command of her to Captain Thomas Read who will go from hence in a few days to superintend the fitting and manning of her—respecting which you will give him the necessary Orders and use your endeavours in getting ready that Ship as soon as possible. We enclose you a Resolve of Congress of the 17th Ultimo appoint ing Colonel Silas Talbot a Captain in the Navy of the United States, and we have determined that should you purchase the Thorne he shall command her; 2 we expect to hear shortly if you have pur chased that vessel. The Ship Confederacy being destined for france and other opportunitys from this place affording sufficient convey ances for the Public despatches, the Packets now at your port which have been kept for that purpose need not be longer detained but may be employed in importing Articles for the use of our Navy. You will please therefore to load them with Tobacco or such Other Arti cles as can be procured that will be suitable at the Bilbao Market and
