October 13, 1779 65 dispatch them for that Port, ordering back the returns in Rigging, Sail Cloth, Powder, Lead & such other articles as are most wanted for your Department. Should it be necessary to provide Prison ships at Boston or Portsmouth in New Hampshire you are Authorized to do so, and to furnish the Commissary General of Prisoners or his Deputy with Cartel vessels when they are wanted. We are Gentn, Your Hble Servts LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The board’s September 23 letter to the committee is in the Eastern Navy Board Letterbook, NN. 2 JCC, 15:1075-76. For a discussion of Talbot’s achievements and the failure of these efforts to secure him a suitable ship as a reward for his exploits as commander of the Argo, see Henry Marchant to Silas Talbot, August 9, 1779, note 2. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir October 12th [1779] The good Intentions of a neighboring state having committed to our charge the conveyance of the enclosed paper, 1 we do ourselves the honor to hand it to the Virginia assembly under your address. We have only to add that in consequence of a representation from the same state addressed and received by Congress the business is so far began as to be committed to a member from each state. We have the honor to be, Sir, your most obedient humble Servants, C Griffin Js. Mercer William Fitzhugh Tr (DLC: Edmund C. Burnett Collection). Endorsed: “Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan V. Henkels.” 1 For the enclosed New Jersey representation on price limitations, see John Fell’s Diary, October 11, 1779. Committee for Foreign Affairs to Arthur Lee Sir Octr. 13. 1779. This is officially to convey to you the Knowledge of the Appoint ment of a Minister plenipotentiary in lieu of a Commissioner at the Court of Spain; and also a Resolve of Congress of this Day 1 upon the Reading of your Letter of the 31 st of May. 2 Mr. Jay will probably be in a short Time in Europe to execute his Commission. I am, Sir, your most humble Servant, James Lovell, for the Comtee. of forgn. Affairs
