68 October 13, 1779 Capellen, which was referred to committee this day, is in PCC, item 78, 8:327-30. JCC, 15:1167 James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir [October 13, 1779] 1 I believe I made some mistake in putting up the Papers for you by last post, as I find a Letter of the Kind which I intended to have sent. Direction on the Cover— His Excellency The President of Congress Paris June 5th. 1779 I beg the favor of your Excellency, to lay my Respect before Congress; with a Repetition of my most earnest request to be recalled. I should most willingly continue to sacrifice as I have hitherto done, my private Interests to the public good. But I am satisfied that the dissentions raised concerning me, will be continued by a continu ance of my Commission, and will be of more injury to the public than I can be of Service. And as the public good was the sole motive of my accepting the Commission, the same reason now induces me to desire most earnestly to resign it. I have the honor to be, with the greatest respect, Your Excellencys most obedient humble Servant. Tho’ dated June 5th it is the exact Copy of May 31st. which was this day read in Congress and produced the inclosed Resolve. 2 I imagined such an Entry on the Journals would be a sort of decency beyond total silence and therefore moved it. The Letter was listened to with Gravity and some Remarks I made were approved & con firmed by each one who spoke and by no one more than Mercer who acknowledged that this Letter gave him new & pleasing Ideas of Mr Lee. I was sure yr. Brother would so Conduct if he found his Ability to serve these States to be impaired by the malignant Arts of his avowed Enemies strengthened by the unbecoming Tameness of those who ought to be the Patrons of his Honor on the meer ground of official Relation, to say nothing of his proved Capacity for acknowl edged Integrity and his unwearied Zeal. I did not mention to put into the Presidents Letter, as a copy now sent, one of the old Letters of March 1st 3 for had I been interogated as to its arrival I should not have been in the State that honest Davus wished to be in regard to the placing of the Infant, ut liquido faciam says he, if I am called upon to deny it. There would be a meaness in putting in now what I intend readily to own, when there is occasion, that I aided to Suppress. I have by me a Letter from Capt. Fowler to a Friend of his here Col. Semple, 4 in which, upon Sight of Rowlands Peice of Augst. 10th, 5 he was induced to insert the strongest Testimony of the Stock
