70 October 13, 1779 4 Alexander Fowler, auditor of the army in the western district, and William Semple. 5 Richard Henry had written a number of essays defending Arthur Lee that were printed in the Pennsylvania Packet during August over the pseudonym “Rowland.” See Lovell to Richard Henry Lee, August 17, 1779, note 3. Gouverneur Morris’ Draft Motion [October 13, 1779] 1 That the Minister of these States to his Catholick Majesty be pri vately instructed to recede from the Claim of a free Navigation of the River Mississippi mentd. in his Instructions below the 31st Degree of North Latitude on Condition of the Grant of a free Port therein also Mentd. if the obtaining such Navigation shall be found an inseperable Bar to the proposed Treaties of Amity & Commerce between these States & his Catholic Majesty. Provided always that if the Power herein contained be confined to the said Minister & not in Case of his Death or Absence to be exercised by any other Person. 2 MS (DLC: Force Collection). In the hand of Gouverneur Morris. 1 This document, which agrees verbatim with the “motion . . . made by Mr Witherspoon, seconded by Mr Morris” and recorded in the secret journal for October 13, was the copy given to Secretary Thomson, as the vote of the delegates on this motion is recorded on the verso in Thomson’s hand. The handwriting on the motion was misidentified by Worthington C. Ford as that of John Witherspoon in the pub lished journal, which for this entry was reconstructed from Thomson’s secret journal. See PCC, item 1, 23:36-38, item 5, 1:352-53; and JCC, 15:1168n.2. 2 This motion reflects the concern of some delegates that Congress had pressed too far in demanding “free navigation of the river Mississippi into and from the sea” in its September 17 resolution on the negotiation of a Spanish treaty. The delegates, however, stood by the resolution as originally adopted by a vote of six to four. For the formula tion of the instructions to the minister to Spain, see Henry Laurens’ Notes on a Treaty, September 9-17, note 1; and Samuel Huntington tojohn Jay, October 16, 1779. Nicholas Van Dyke to Thomas Bradford Sir, 1 13 Octo. 1779. The inclosed Bill of Cost you’l perceive is made out by the Goaler of New Castle County, to whom the Prisoner’s therein named were Committed, when taken from on Board the small French Schooner lately brought into Philada, being retaken by the Mate, she was bound from Baltimore on a Cruise to Caegin with Plank & Tarr. The Reason of the Prisoner’s being landed here was, the Mate was fearful he was not safe in keeping them on Board, as he looked on himself alone except the Hands put on Board by the Privateer who took him—after which as soon as he procured Hands to assist him to go to Philada. he proceeded without calling for the Prisoners. You’l be pleased to allow what is usual in such Cases, & pav the same to
