October 16, 1779 81 Samuel Huntington to John Adams Sir, [October 16, 1779] You will herewith receive a commission giving you full power to negotiate a treaty of peace with Great Britain, 1 in doing which you will conform to the following information & instructions. 2 First. The United states are sincerely desirous of peace and wish by every means consistent with their dignity and safety to spare the further effusion of blood. They have therefore by your commission and these instructions laboured to remove the obstacles to that event before the enemy have evidenced their disposition for it. But as the great object of the present defensive war on the part of the allies is to establish the independence of the united states, and as any treaty, whereby this end cannot be obtained, must be only ostensible and illusory, you are therefore to make it a preliminary article to any negotiation, That Great Britain shall agree to treat with the united states as Sovereign, free and independent. Secondly. You Shall take especial care also, that the independence of the said States be effectually assured and confirmed by the treaty or treaties of peace, according to the form and effect of the treaty of alliance with his most Ghristian Majesty; & you shall not agree to such treaty or treaties, unless the same be thereby so assured and confirmed. Thirdly. The boundaries of these states are as follows viz, These States are bounded, North, by a line to be drawn from the North west angle of Nova Scotia along the highlands, which divide those rivers which empty themselves into the river St. Lawrence from those which fall into the Atlantic Ocean, to the northwestermost head of Connecticut river, thence down along the middle of that river to the forty fifth degree of North latitude, thence due west in the latitude forty five degrees north from the equator to the Northwestermost side of the river St. Lawrence or Cadaraqui, thence straight to the south end of lake Nipissing, and thence straight to the source of the river Mississippi; West, by a line to be drawn along the middle of the river Mississippi from its source to where the said line shall intersect the thirty first degree of North latitude: South, by a line to be drawn due east from the termination of the line last mentioned in the latitude of thirty one degrees north from the equator to the middle of the river Appalachicola or Catahouchi, thence along the middle thereof to its junction with the Flint river, thence straight to the head of St Mary’s river and thence down along the middle of St. Mary’s river to the Atlantic Ocean: and East, by a line to be drawn along the middle of St. John’s river from its source to its mouth in the bay of Fundy; comprehending all islands within twenty leagues of any part of the shores of the United states and lying between lines to be drawn due east from the points where the aforesaid boundaries
