82 October 16, 1779 between Nova Scotia on the one part and East Florida on the other part shall respectively touch the bay of Fundy and Atlantic Ocean. You are therefore strongly to contend that the whole of the said countries and islands lying within the boundaries aforesaid and every citadel, fort, post, place, harbour and road to them belonging be absolutely evacuated by the land and sea forces of his Britannic Majesty and yielded to the powers of the states to which they respec tively belong, in such situation as they may be, at the termination of the war. But notwithstanding the clear right of these states and the importance of the object, yet they are so much influenced by the dictates of religion and humanity and so desirous of complying with the earnest requests of their allies, that if the line to be drawn from the mouth of the lake Nipissing to the head of the Mississippi cannot be obtained without continuing the war for that purpose, you are hereby empowered to agree to some other line between that point and the river Mississippi, provided the same shall in no part thereof be to the southward of latitude forty five degrees north: And in like manner, if the eastern boundary above described cannot be obtained, you are hereby empowered to agree, that the same shall be after wards adjusted by commissioners to be duly appointed for that pur pose according to such line as shall be by them settled and agreed on as the boundary between that part of the State of Massachusetts bay formerly called the province of Maine and the colony of Nova Scotia agreeably to their respective rights: And you may also consent that the enemy shall destroy such fortifications as they may have erected. Fourthly. Although it is of the utmost importance to the peace and commerce of the united states, that Canada and Nova Scotia should be ceded and more particularly that their equal common right to the fisheries should be guarantied to them, yet a desire of terminating the war hath induced us not to make the acquisition of these objects an ultimatum on the present occasion. Fifthly. You are empowered to agree to a cessation of hostilities during the negotiation, provided our ally shall consent to the same, and provided it shall be stipulated that all the forces of the enemy shall be immediately withdrawn from the United States. Sixthly. In all other matters not abovementioned you are to govern yourself by the alliance between his most Christian Majesty and these states; by the advice of our allies; by your knowledge of our interests, and by your own discretion, in which we repose the fullest confidence. Done at Philadelphia this sixteenth day of October in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and seventy nine and in the fourth year of our Independence. By the Congress of the united states of America, Sami. Huntington President Attest, Chas Thomson secy. RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Written and attested by Charles Thomson, and signed by Huntington. Addressed: “The honble John Adams esq minister plenipotentiary appointed to negotiate a treaty of peace.”
