88 October 16, 1779 If the Disappointments in southern News had not been what you well know they have, I would now tell you that a North Carolina Colonel heard one of Govr. Caswell’s Councellors 10 Days ago read a Letter from Govr. Rutledge informg. that all the Vessels in Beauport Harbour surrendered without Opposition to the Count Destaing, the Fort made a Resistance of an Hour & 50 Minutes but was then carried. The Count then proceeded to Savannah where, without any Resistance the Enemy surrendered at discretion. Your Lincoln was in such Positions that the Letter concluded not even a single Tory would escape, with all his Knowledge of the Passes. This same Coll, was told that the Spaniards had certainly taken St. Augustine. Perhaps I shall get the Bearer to convey to you a Journal of 1777. Your affectionate, humble Servant, James Lovell [P.S.] I had the Pleasure of knowing of yr. Health by Mr. Guild some Days ago & by Mr. McCullogh yesterday. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Arthur Lee, October 13, and Lovell to Arthur Lee, October 14, 1779. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir Philadelphia Octor 17th 1779 You will herewith receive enclosd a Memorial from two Officers Stediford & Bicker which Congress have referd to the Commander in Chief. 1 1 am Sir with the greatest Respect your Excys. humble Servant, Sami Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Captains Garret Stediford and Henry Bicker, Jr., had been, respectively, regimen tal quartermaster and adjutant of the Third Pennsylvania Battalion when captured at the fall of Fort Washington in November 1776, and they had been unable to find suitable vacancies since their exchange in 1778. For Washington’s disposition of their case, which he referred to Gen. Arthur St. Clair in a letter of December 21, suggesting that they be introduced “into the 4th. Pennsylvania Regt, under the Resolve of Con gress of the 24th. Novemr. 1778,” see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 17:82, 299. Marine Committee to Seth Harding Sir October 17th 1779 In addition to our Instructions of the 17th Ultimo which has been delivered to you, we now direct that you will receive on Board the Confederacy His Excellency John Jay Esquire, his Secretary, and
