October 18, 1779 89 family, whom you are to treat with all the respect due to his Charac ter and on your passage you are to consult with him and Mr. Gerard and be governed by their Orders with respect to any occurrences which may happen and the port to which you are to proceed. We are sir, Your Hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 This day the Marine Committee also sent the following brief letter to the Eastern Navy Board over the signature of chairman John Mathews. “We desire you will Consult with the Honble John Adams Esqr. respecting the Stores which are necessary for himself & his family on their passage to France which you are to provide and also such Accomodations as may be wanting on board the Frigate in which he is to embark." Adams Papers, MHi; and Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 2:122-23. Committee for Foreign Affairs to William Carmichael Sir Philadelphia 18 Oct 1779 I enclose to you Copies of Some resolves respecting the examina tion of Accounts in Europe by Mr Johnston. 1 It appears to me to be a very undefined Sort of business, as it has been managed, both in respect to that Gentlemans attestation and recompence. Such as it is, I beg you would Communicate one of the copies to Dr Franklin, and one to Mr Johnston. Ask the Doctor to let certified Copies he sent to all who he knows ought to have them, as I shall only forward by other Opportunities a Number Sufficient to Secure arrival at his hands in case you Should be unfortunately obliged to throw your papers overboard. Deus Meliora. Your humble Servant, Signed James Lovell for the Com. for F. Affairs 2 FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). In a clerical hand. 1 Congress had appointed Joshua Johnson on September 29 “to examine the accounts of the several commissioners, commercial agents and others in Europe, entrusted with the public money of these United States.” JCC, 15:1114-15, 1126. 2 Carmichael’s October 25 reply to this letter, which is mistakenly identified as directed to the president of Congress, is in PCC, item 88, fol. 35-36; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:393. Committee of Commerce to John Ashmead Commercial Committee of Congress Sir 1 Philadelphia 18th October 1779 You will proceed in the Eagle Packet with the utmost expedition to the Island of St. Eustatia, and there address yourself to Messrs. Curson and Gouverneur Agents for the United States, to whom you
