102 October 21, 1779 11 and assigned to a committee composed of a member from each state. See John Fell’s Diary, October 11, 1779. Delaware’s delegate on the committee, Nicholas Van Dyke, was apparently not attending Congress at this time, having last voted on Octo ber 6. Since the state was unrepresented until Dickinson’s return, it became impera tive that Dickinson forward the memorial, “as our Assembly is now sitting.” Rodney laid the “inclosed printed paper” before the assembly “Immediately” upon receipt of Dickinson’s letter. See JCC, 15:1148, 1162; and Rodney, Letters (Ryden), p. 324. For Congress’ resolves on price regulation, see Samuel Huntington to the States, Novem ber 22, 1779. John Fell’s Diary Thursday Octr. 21st [1779]. Coml Committee. Congress. Some dispatches and several Reports from Committees, Order of the day for Balloting for a Person to be sent to Europe to Negotiate a Loan. Mr Laurens was appointed. Mr Laurens 8 Votes, Mr Adams 3. 1 NB. Mr Scudder. 2 MS (DLC). 1 The balloting on this election is not recorded in the journals. JCC, 15:1198. 2 That is, Nathaniel Scudder had returned to Congress. Marine Committee to Thomas Read Sir October 21. 1779 As you have been appointed to command the Continental frigate Bourbon now at Middleton in the State of Connecticut we desire you will immediately proceed to that place and take the command of the said frigate which you are to use your best endeavours to have fitted for the Sea with all expedition. When you arrive at Middleton you are to inspect the State of the Bourbon and give an account thereof to the Commissioners of the Navy Board at Boston who will order every thing necessary for equipping her and you are occasionally to inform that Board of your proceedings and be governed by their orders in all matters relating to your Ship. We are Sir, Your Hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Gouverneur Morris to George Washington Dr General. Philaa. 21st Octr. 1779 Two Days ago I was placed on a Committee to report the neces sary Provision to be made for Officers not heretofore provided for. 1 I recollect at present the general Officers & Erskine’s Corps (The
