108 October 24, 1779 it appears the Enemy are centering all their force in order to make the greatest possible defence against Count de Estaing and Genl. Washington. The Enemy have sunk several hulks of vessels in the channel at the narrows & have made strong works on Long Island, Staten & Governors Island. Inasmuch as the season is far advanced, we have no reason to be very sanguine about possessing ourselves of New York. If the Count comes to the Northward, I doubt not but vigorous attempts will be made. The commander in chief had called for 2000 militia from Massachusetts Bay, 3000 from Connecticut, 2000 from New York, 2000 from New Jersey, 1500 from Pennsyl vania. 3 Congress has received no authentic accounts from the com bined Fleets in Europe. We have flattering hopes of good news from Georgia. Congress has lately appointed the Hon. Wm. Laurens 4 to negociate a Loan in Holland. I have the honor to be with great esteem your Excellys Mo. ob. huml. Servt, Wm. Sharpe P.S. Three days since Mr Gerard & Mr Jay saild for France. Tr (Nc-Ar: Governor’s Letter Books). 1 Sharpe may actually have written this letter on the 28th. The information from Washington discussed by Sharpe was dispatched from West Point the evening of the 21st but was not read in Congress until the 25th. Moreover, Sharpe noted in his postscript that Gerard and Jay, who sailed aboard the Confederacy on October 25, had departed “three days since.” Errors of transcription in this letterbook are not uncommon. 2 For Washington’s two letters of October 21 informing Congress of the imminent evacuation of the British posts on the Hudson and then confirming that the enemy had indeed “retreated to New York,” see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 17:1-2, 7. 3 For Washington’s preparations for an attack upon New York should d’Estaing’s fleet arrive before winter, see Freeman, Washington, 5:136-38. 4 Sharpe probably wrote “Mr. Laurens,” which was misread by the transcriber. Thomas Burke to the North Carolina Assembly [October 25? 1779] 1 Among the variety of Business which came before Congress from the begining of January ’79 to the midle of August, the following Objects Seemed to your Delegates to be of highest Importance to the united States in general. The Army, Finances, and foreign affairs. The Votes and transactions relative to the two first are to be found in the Journals, Copies of which are transmitted to the Governor for the use of the State. I 2 presume therefore that your Delegates are not required to give any particular Information relative to them unless Some passages require Explanation, or their own particular Votes Stand in need of Justification. If Such be the Case, I hope and
