October 25, 1779 111 Vigorous Exertions of the States to furnish the Necessary Supplies in kind according to their respective abilities. All the Efforts of Congress have been directed to the lessening of Expenditures, to the procuring of Supplies of money by Loans and Taxes, and by Such means to prevent further Emissions. But all their Efforts must prove Ineffectual, if Not powerfully aided by Similar Efforts of the States for Carrying their resolutions into Execution. Many States are availing themselves of the present plenty of money for the raising as much as possible by Taxes. The advantage of Such policy and the Injury of delaying Taxation until the Money becomes more difficult to be obtained, your Delegates presume are obvious, and cannot escape the Sagacity of the General Assembly. What relates to foreign affairs being preserved in the Secret Jour nals of Congress will require a more particular detail, and I will here give as full a relation as the Injunctions of Secrecy which [I] am under will permit. Premising, that tho I hold myself not at liberty to declare any thing which I have been enjoined to keep Secret, unless I perceive its tendency to be Injurious to my Constituents; or, unless I am particularly required by tbe Assembly to lay such matters before them without reserve, Yet in Such Cases I Consider the obligation I am under to my Constituents, Superior to any which can be laid on me by Congress. 5 But in the Conduct of Wars, and foreign Negotia tions many things will Occur which if divulged might lose every beneficial Effect, and produce Consequences very Injurious to the general Welfare. Such it is to be presumed no one State would require to be divulged, unless their own peculiar Safety made it Necessary, and I am too well Convinced of the Wisdom, discretion and public Spirit of my Constituents, to doubt their permitting Silence on all affairs of Such Nature. The foreign affairs have been Consid ered in Congress under two general Heads—the State and disposi tions of foreign Courts; the Conduct and Character of our foreign Ministers—and each afforded very Interesting objects, and produced long protracted Questions and debates. With respect to the Conduct of our foreign Ministers It was So Indiscreet that dissentions and Animosities had arisen amongst them which produced reciprocal Suspicions and Accustations. Nor had they the prudence to Suppress or Conceal them, on the Contrary, they Suffered them to break out into heats and altercations disgrace ful to the Country in whose Service they were. The Consequence was, that they (lost the Confidence of the Court at which they resided and) became almost useless. Doctr F. & Mr Dean who principally conducted our affairs at the Court of Versails Seemed to act in perfect Harmony, and to be fully possessed of the Confidence of the Court. Doctor Lee who was Joint Commissioner with them, accused them both of peculation, and Crimi nal waste and misapplication of public money. Mr. Dean Accused
