112 October 25, 1779 Doctor Lee of being Froward, proud, Supercilious, Malevolent, Sus picious to So unreasonable a degree as to take unfounded Conjec tures for facts, and to draw from them uncandid and disengenuous Conclusions—with all, to be of a temper Sordid and disgusting— and by his Correspondence and Connexitions with British Subjects and Emissaries to have become Suspected by the French Court of Infidelity—and Doctor Franklin Considered the same Gentleman as laboring under a Disorder of his Understanding. The appointments of the other Gentlemen were found to have been Useless and their part in the Enquiries, and proceedings of Congress, being inconsiderable it Seems enough to Inform the Assem bly that they were discontinued in office. The Congress made a very Minute and painful Enquiry Concern ing all the allegations of the different accusers and accused, but So deficient were they in Matterials for affording Testimony that no Satisfaction Could be obtained with respect to the guilt or Innocence of any. 6 Mr Dean alledged that his accounts would very fully refute the charge of Mr. Lee, but that not knowing that he was recalled for any other purpose than to give Congress Information of the Political State of Europe as it affected the united States, and being desirous of giving them Satisfaction without delay, and of hastning the Depar ture of Count DeEstaing for America with the fleet under his Command, he did not take time to Settle them before he left France. 7 The accusations against him were founded upon Conjectures, Sur mises and Inuendoes, and the Settlement of his accounts would Certainly prove either his guilt or Innocence, but they were in france, and all farther proceeding became impossible So that the Sense of Congress on the indisputable Merit of Mr Dean as our Assiduous, able, faithful, and Successful Minister Could not with propriety be given while he lay under So heavy a Charge as that of peculation. Doctor Franklin was involved with Mr Dean. The Charges against Doctor Lee were no better Supported, and he himself was not present to answer. Upon the whole it appear’d to your Delegates, and in their Opinion to a great Majority of Congress, that the Charges on all hands were much more the result of personal Ill will and resentment than of Calm dispassionate Observation and Enquiry. The Indiscrition of the Ministers and their Consequent Inutility were to your Delegates and many others perfectly Evident. They also thought that when Ministers of such high trust were accused of Such Enormities nothing less than a full and clear Investigation by putting the parties personally on their defence before their Country, and obtaining all possible light concerning their Trans actions, ought to Satisfy the public. This was impossible unless the Ministers were present, and therefore your Delegates were of Opin ion that they ought all to be recalled. Agreeably to this principle they Voted for the recal of Doctor Franklin, 8 but, they Confess, it was
