118 October 25. 1779 in no Event be given up, but no other Stipulations relative to it in a Treaty of peace were permitted to be a part of the ultimatum. Some resolutions were entered into for the better Securing the undis turbed Exercise of the right as above [limited?] in which your Dele gates did not Concur, not being [convinced?] or that their powers Extended to the entering into Such Engagements as were proposed. 17 But it would be premature and Improper to mention the particulars of Such Engagements at present. Your Delegates hope it is Suffi cient to inform the assembly that their dissent will appear on the Journal, and the State may avail herself thereof Should it hereafter be deemed Expedient. The Minister of France had a Second private Audience of Con gress in July and then informed us of Some difficulties which pre vented the Success of the Mediation of Spain which it required the Wisdom and Moderation of Congress to remove. The Congress resolved on the Measures which appeared to them the best for remov ing them, and if not too late, your Delegates have Strong hopes in their Success. 18 No Conclusive resolutions were entered into relative to the pro posed alliance with Spain, while any of your Delegates who have now the honor of informing the assembly remained at Congress. 19 MS (Nc-Ar: Secretary of State Records). Written by Burke and endorsed by him: “rough of an Address to the People drawn when member of Congress in 1779.” 1 In mid-October the North Carolina assembly ordered its congressional delegates, Burke, Whitmell Hill, and John Penn, to appear before it and “give information with respect to Matters which have come under the deliberation of Congress since January last.” N.C. State Records, 13:833, 922. While three of the four journal entries recording the adoption of the resolution specify that the delegates attend on “Friday next” (October 22), the message from the house to the senate reads “Monday next.” What ever the reason for the discrepancy, Burke and Hill clearly attended the assembly on Monday, October 25. Although there is no mention of the report in the journals, they received the thanks of the Senate and House of Commons to which they responded in kind. Their responses are in ibid., pp. 854, 945-47; and Legislative Papers, Nc-Ar. The report itself, which covers the period from “the beginning of January 79 to the midle of August” when Burke left Congress, was probably not drafted until a few days before its presentation to the assembly. 2 Burke originally wrote this statement as if it were from the entire delegation (“Your Delegates presume therefore that they”), but later amended a considerable portion, although not all, of the text by changing the pronouns and verbs to make it appear to be a personal report. He also made other, minor alterations in phraseology. 3 See JCC, 14:523. 4 Burke may have been referring to the case of Maj. Matthew Clarkson, for which see John Jay to Joseph Reed, January 27, 1779, note 2. 5 For the “Injunctions of Secrecy” under which the delegates labored, see, for example, James Lovell to Samuel Adams, July 10; North Carolina Delegates to Rich ard Caswell, July 15; and Lovell to Richard Henry Lee, July 17, 1779. 6 For Congress’ “Minute and painful Enquiry,” see especially the Foreign Affairs Inquiry Committee Minutes, January 21, 1779. 7 For Silas Deane’s “narrative” of his mission to France, see these Letters, 11:285-87, 383-84, 393-94. 8 See JCC, 13:499-500.
