122 October 26, 1779 The enclosd paper will furnish you with the latest Intelligence I have receivd from Georgia & the Count De Estaing. I am Informd by Genl. Washing[ton], the Enemy have evacuated both their posts at Kings ferry viz. Stoney, & Verplanks points burnt & destroyd their works; also by the last advice from Newport every thing apeard to Indicate a Speedy evacuation of that place, Say last Sunday. I am Sir with Esteem and Regard your humble Servant, Sami. Huntington RC (DLC: Holker Papers). 1 Holker’s letter is not in PCC. 2 See the following entry. Samuel Huntington to Captains Landolphe, Patot, and Raux Gentlemen, Philada Octr 26th 1779 Your letter of the 13th instant I received last evening, have com municated the same to the Minister of France Le Chevalier de la Luzerne, & shall lay the same before Monsr. Holker the Consul of France at this Port & marine Agent, hope he will take the necessary Measures to relieve your present Distresses & procure you the neces sary Supplies. 1 You may be assured of receiving all proper assistance & relief that these United States can afford their good Allies. I am with esteem & regard, your hble Servant, S.H. President LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Jean Landolphe, P. Patot, and Th. Raux were captains of three French vessels that had sailed from Cape Francois in August in convoy with the comte d’Estaing, but which were heavily damaged in a storm encountered on September 16, after which they had made their way to New London, Conn., on October 12. Their letter of explanation to Huntington, which the president enclosed with the preceding entry, is in the Holker Papers, DLC. Their plight is also discussed in another document in the Holker Papers, an Octo ber 14 letter to Holker from Thomas Mumford, Continental agent at New London. The three ships, Mumford wrote, “must be unloaded & have Large Repairs before they Can Leave this Port. I have informed them,” he went on to explain, “I transact business for you here, & wou’d Render them any Service in my power. . . . Masts that they want I have by me, which are scarce here.”
