November 1, 1779 135 (Rutland), 2:549-50. For other aspects of Congress’ concern over Virginia’s western land claims and the expansion of settlers into the region, see also North Carolina Delegates to Richard Caswell, November 4; and Huntington to Thomas Jefferson, November 9, and December 30, 1779. Committee of Congress to William Livingston Sir Philadelphia 1st Novemr. 1779 The Commissary General of purchases has Orders to contract for a Supply of Flour for the Current Year, not to exceed two hundred thousd. Barrels on the most reasonable terms—Of this quantity it is expected your State will furnish twenty thousand Barrels. 1 The exhausted Condition of our Magazines and the pressing wants of the Army call for the vigourous Exertions of the powers of your State to aid & facilitate Col. Blaine Deputy Commissary General of Purchases (who will wait on your Excellency with this) in supplying the Necessities of the Army with Bread & preventing the most dis agreeable Consequences. Your knowledge of the public wants & your known Zeal in promot ing the Common weal supercedes the necessity of mentioning any other Consideration to engage your attention & Influence. I am in behalf of the Committee of Congress on the Commissary & Quarter Master Genls. Department, Your Exellencys Most Obedt. & most Hble Servt. Jesse Root RC (MHi: C.E. French Collection). In a clerical hand and signed by Root. 1 Root wrote a nearly identical letter this day to Pennsylvania president Joseph Reed, with the notable variation that Pennsylvania’s quota was “seventy thousand Barrels.” Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:774. Committee on Appeals Decree November 1st 1779. Stephen Cleavland Lib[ellan]t & App[ell]ee | Appeal from vs. The Ship Valenciano her Cargo &c. 7 the State of Joachim Luca Claim[an]t & App[ellan]t J Massachusetts Bay 1 We the Commissioners appointed by Congress to hear, try and determine all Appeals from the Courts of Admiralty of the several American States to Congress having heard and fully considered as well all and singular the several Matters and Things set forth and contained in the Record or Minutes of the Proceedings of the Supe rior Court of Judicature, Court of Assize and General Gaol Delivery began and held at Boston in and for the County of Suffolk on the last Tuesday of August Anno Domini 1779 in the above Cause as the Arguments of the Advocate of the respective parties to the above
