138 November 1, 1779 talk before you travailed into strange Countries. Be that as it may, un peuegard, you recover your whole Self again shortly after, in the Affair of Mr. Iz. 1 I shall pursue yr. Injunctions. I sat about giving you some Idea of the Temper of Congress as to the Ultimata by extracting the Propositions & offered Amendments, 2 but I found myself soon bewildered. You may by a little Conversa tion with our Friend SA 3 know more than a great deal of my Fatigue in the Way mentioned would convey. In short the great Difference sprung from our varying Quantum of Obsequiousness to the Dicta tions of a Foreigner as they were retailed to us through the mouths of either Fear or Roguery, and not from our being wide of each other in Opinion of our Rights, if we were in Condition to assert them or if our Ally would consent to join in a determined Assertion. But this said some must be quite on new Ground and not on the subsisting Treaties, for the whole End of these is the Assurance of our Independence formally or tacitly. And France to be sure would never think, at least would never insist that a common Right in the Fishery was included in our Independence in Matters of Commerce. For if this should be done, the Principle established would let in other nations, which France & England would both chuse not to do. I am greatly pleased with the Confirmation by yr. travailed Experience to Senti ments springing from my own natural Temper—That the way to insure the lasting Regard of France is by showing independant Viril ity instead of colonial Effeminacy. Novr. 2d. The Bearer unexpectedly calls me to seal. I see my Corre spondence with Portia is all over. She cannot write because I should see the mark of the Tear on the Paper. Heaven bless you both. J.L. [P.S.] I do not think it will be easy for me to send you the Vols. you wish by Way of Boston but if you can borrow a few Sets there I will be upon Honor to repay them as Oppy. serves and I will attend to chances from this River but I cannot promise 20 Setts. ENCLOSURE reported Feby. 23d. 1779 3d. That a Right of fishg. & curing Fish on the Banks & Coasts of the Island of Newfoundland equally wth. the Subjects of France & Gr. Br. be reserved, acknowledged and ratified to the Subjects of the United States. Others agreed to in Lieu. 4th. That the Navigation of the River Miss, as low down as the southern boundy. of the U.S. be acknowledged & ratified absolutely free to the Subjects of the U.S. 4 5. That free Commerce be allowed to the Subjects of the U.S. with some Port or Ports below the southern boundary of the said States
