November 1, 1779 139 on the River Miss, except for such Articles as may be particularly enumerated, and In Case the Allies of these U.S. will agree to support them in such claims by continuing hostilities, then to insist that Nova Scotia & its dependencies be ceded to the Und. Sts. or declared independent. 5 March 22d. 3d. Article as amended by the comtee. of the whole. That a com mon right in these States to fish on the coasts, bays & banks of Nova Scotia, banks of Newfdld. & Gulph of St. Laurence, coast of Labra- dore & Straights of Belle Isle be acknowledged, and in case of refusal that the war be continued unless the circumstances of our Allies shall be such as to render them utterly unable to assist in the prosecution of the war, in which case as ample priviledges in the fishy, be insisted on as can possibly be obtained: That in case Gr. Br. shod not be prevailed on either to cede or declare N Scota. independent the Priviledge of curing Fish on the Shores and in the Harbours of N Scotia be required. In Lieu of which a Substitute was moved by Mr. Morris as follows. That an acknowledgmt. be made by Great Br. of a common right in these States to fish on the coasts, bays & banks of N. Scota. the banks of New foundld. & Gulph of St. Laurence, the Coasts of Labradore & Straights of Belle Isle, & a Stipulation for the Right of curing fish on the shores of N Scota. provided always that the Allies of I these States shall be in circumstances to support them in carrying on the War for such acknowledgement & stipulation; but that in no Case by any Treaty of Peace the common right of fishing as above described be given up. This Substitute being adopted, a Motion was made & carryed to strike out the markd Words. Questions were put on the parts & carried in the Affirmative. March 24th 3d. Article as amended & passed the 22d reconsidered a motion made by Burke to strike out all after “to fish,” as far as “provided” and to insert “on all & singular the fishing banks to the eastward of the island of Cape Breton and of N Scotia which by the Treaties of Utricht & of Paris were ceded to the Kg of Gr. Br. in Exclusion of the Subjects of France.” A motion by R H Lee 2d by Col. Dyer as a Substitute. That the Right of Fishing on the Coasts and Banks of North America be reserved to the United States as fully as they enjoyed the same when subject to the Kg of Gr. Br. excepting always what shall have been excepted by the Treaty of Paris between France & the U.Ss. the whole to be explained by the Treaties of Utrecht and of Paris with Gr. Br. And of Paris with the United States of America. Carried in the affirmative as a Substitute, and in Lieu of the Arti cle passed on the 22d and the Amendmt. proposed by Mr. Burke.
