November 2, 1779 147 Octr. 16. They report & Congress accept. Sir. Congress have appointed the Honble. John Jay Esqr. Minister Plenipotentiary for negociating a Treaty of Amity & Commerce & of Alliance between his Catholic Majesty & the United States of America. And the Hon. John Adams Esqr. Minister Plenipotentiary for negociating a treaty of Peace & a treaty of Commerce with Grt. Britain; The Hon. Wm. Carmichael Esqr. is appointed Secretary to the first & the hon. Francis Esqr. 3 is appointed Secretary to the last mentioned Embassy. Mr. Jay & Mr. Carmichael will embark on Board the Confederacy continental Ship of War now in the Delaware ready to sail for France. Mr. Adams & Mr. Dana will probably take their Passages on Board La Sensible one of his Most Christian Majesty’s Frigates in the Harbour of Boston. The Salaries annexed to their appointments respectively are two thousand five hundred pounds Sterling per anm. to the ministr. & one thousand pounds Sterling to the Secretaries, And in order to enable these Gentlemen to enter wth.out Embarrassmt. upon the Duties of their several functions, I am authorized by an Act of Con gress of the 15th Instant a certified Copy of which will accompany this, to request you, Sir, to take the most effectual means for supply ing them with two thousand Louis dors in distributions propor tioned to their respective Salaries & to assure you on the faith of Congress that Speedy & proper measures will be adopted both for repaying that Sum & for establishing a fund for the future support of all the Embassies of these United States in Europe. You will likewise find enclosed a certified copy of an act of Congress of the 4th instant by which you will be informed that your Salary is also to be two thousand & five hundred pounds sterling per annum, and that John Laurens Esqr. a Member of the house of representatives for the State of South Carolina & Lt. Colonel in the army of the United States is appointed by Congress to be Secretary to the Minis ter Plenipotentiary at the Court of France. I have the Honor to be Oct 18 Congress proceeded to the nomination of a proper person to negociate a Loan in Holland when Mr. John Adams was put in nomination by Mr. G. Morris. Mr. H. Laurens by Mr. Mathews Mr. Woodbury Langdon by Mr. Sharp On Motion of Mr. Morris, 2d. by Mr. Mathews, Resolved that a Comtee. of three be appointed to prepare Instructions to the person who may be empowered to negotiate a foreign Loan. Mr. Morris, Mr. Mathews, Mr. Gerry.
