148 November 2, 1779 I presume the President has sent you a Copy of the Letter to Doctr. Franklin. I will enquire this day. Nov. 2d RC (MHi: Adams Papers). In the hand of Lovell, though not signed, and endorsed by him: “Extracts from the sect Journals.” 1 This date is taken from the last paragraph below. 2 Although Lovell had enclosed substantial extracts from the secret journals of February and March 1779 concerning the peace ultimata with his letter to Adams of November 1, he subsequently proceeded to copy the following extracts from the secret journals of October 1779, appending a brief concluding paragraph concerning Dr. Franklin and adding the date “Nov. 2d.” 3 That is, Francis Dana. Virginia Delegates to the Virginia House of Delegates Sir, Philadelphia. Novr. 2d. 1779. Our Collegue Mr Smith 1 having charged himself with the Copies of the Petitions of the Indiana & Vandalia Companies then before Congress, to lay before the House of Delegates of Virginia, It falls to our Lot to hand the enclosed 2 to you for the further & full Informa tion of your House as to the progress of that business A Business which we conceive may in Consequences greatly affect the Interest of Virginia in the first place—& ultimately injure the Rights of all the States in the Union. Your Honble. House may be assured that no pains were spared by the Virginia Delegates to defend the Rights of tbe State & to prevent Congress from establishing a Precedent so dangerous to tbe com mon Rights of the United States—but to how little purpose may be readily discovered, when you are informed that tho’ the Committee determined this Case privately & without notice to any of the Vir ginia Delegates—and tho’ their Report was so expressly counter to the Instruction of Congress—Yet 8 States to 3 were against recom mitting the Report. We must however observe that we understood on that Occasion that some of the voters agt. the recommitment were agt. the Jurisdic tion of Congress, upon Information of the facts laid before the Committee which were read in Congress & not denyed. But we are sorry we are obliged to say that Congress were so determined to proceed upon this business agt the Rights of Virga, that on the next day, tho’ the business of Indiana & Vandalia was an order of the Day, & we had no Doubts the Said Petitions wou’d be rejected—we discovered the Members for this business had changed their Ground & not only declined proceeding on the Resolution of the Committee, thereby meaning to retain that pretence for interferring in this Business—But were also pleased to pass the Resolution of tbe 30th a Copy of which is now subjoined to the other Proceedings.
