156 November 6, 1779 Committee on Appeals Decree November 6th. 1779 Nathaniel Tracy &al Lib[ellan]ts & App[ellan]tsl Appeal 1 from vs The Brigantine Holy Martyrs her Cargo &c. J the State of Joseph De Lano Claim[an]t & App[ell]ee J Massachusetts Bay We the commissioners appointed by Congress to hear, try and determine all appeals from the Courts of Admiralty of the several American States to Congress having heard and fully considered as well all and singular the several Matters and Things mentioned and contained in the Record or Minutes of the Proceedings of the Supe rior Court of Judicature of Massachusetts Bay held at Concord on the second Tuesday in April last &c. in the above Cause as the Arguments of the Advocates of the respective parties to the above Appeal do thereupon adjudge and decree that the Bill of the said Nathaniel Tracy and others exhibited and the Appeal by them demanded and filed in the above Cause be dismissed with Costs And that the said Brigantine or Vessel called the Holy Martyrs, her tackle, Apparel and Furniture and all and singular the Goods, Wares and Merchandizes laden and found on board her at the Time of her Capture as mentioned in the said Bill be forthwith restored and redelivered and the said Joseph De Lano the Claimant in the said Cause his Agent or Attorney to and for the Use of himself and all others on whose Behalf he claims and appeals And We do further order and decree that the party Appellant pay unto the party Appel lee one thousand and fifty six Dollars for his Costs and Charges by him expended in defending the said Appeal in this Court &c. Tho M:Kean J. Root C. Griffin MS (DNA: RG 267, case no. 60). In a clerical hand, and signed by Griffin, McKean, and Root. 1 A jury of the Massachusetts Court of Admiralty for the Middle District declared on April 6, 1779, that the brigantine Santander y los Santos Martires [Holy Martyrs] was Spanish property but that her cargo was British. The court therefore awarded the cargo to Nathaniel Tracy and John C. Jones, merchants and owners of the armed schooner Success, commanded by Philip Trask, which had captured the Holy Martyrs on December 30, 1778. Both parties appealed to the Massachusetts Superior Court of Judicature, which upheld the maritime court. Tracy and Jones then appealed to Congress, where the case was assigned on October 9, 1779, to the Committee on Appeals. The committee in this decree affirmed the decision of the state court. See case file no. 60, RG 267, DNA; and JCC, 15:1149. For further information on congressional involvement in this case, see John Jay to Conrad Alexandre Gerard, April 25 and May 24, 1779.
