158 November 6, 1779 2 This day Huntington also wrote the following brief letter to Capt. Lt. John Van Dyke of the Second Continental Artillery, whose request for leave had been for warded on October 17 to Congress by Washington with a recommendation by Dr. John Cochran. See JCC, 15:1246 47; PCC, item 152, 8:117-22; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 16:473. “You will receive herewith enclos’d an act of Congress of this day granting you leave of absence for eight Months, that you may take a Voyage to Sea, this being judged necessary for the recovery of your Health." PCC, item 14, fol. 219. Marine Committee to John Barry Sir November 6th 1779 As you have been appointed to Command a new Continental Ship 1 that is now on the Stocks at Portsmouth in New Hampshire you are hereby directed to repair to that place and hasten as much as may be in your power the compleating of that Ship which we are desirous to have done with all dispatch. We have now communicated our desire on that head to the Honble the Navy Board at Boston, on whom you will please to call in your way and receive such orders as they may think proper to give you. 2 Should Mr. Langdon & you Agree that any alteration can be made in this Ship that will render her more suitable than the present design, you will please to communicate your plan and a state of the ship which we shall consider. We are sir, Your Hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The 74-gun ship-of-the-line America. For Barry’s appointment to this command, see William B. Clark, Gallant John Barry, 1745-1803 (New York: Macmillan Co., 1938), pp. 184-86. 2 In keeping with which, the committee wrote the following brief letter this day to the Eastern Navy Board. “Captain John Barry will deliver you this in his way to Portsmouth in New Hamp shire where he goes to hasten the building and fitting of the New Ship on the Stocks at that place which we have appointed him to command & which we request you will push forward with all possible expedition." Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 2:127. Samuel Huntington to Horatio Gates Sir Philadelphia Novemr 7th. 1779 I have the pleasure to Acknowledge the receipt of your favour of the 27 Ulto. by Majr Armstrong which was Immediately laid before Congress. Please to accept of my Congratulations on your obtaining possession of the Town & Island of Newport. 1 I was happy in having an Opportunity of transmitting to France the agreable Intelligence you gave me; Immediately after the receipt of your letter.
