November 8, 1779 159 We have no Authentic Intelligence from Georgia later than the 4th of Octor; the Capture of the Brittish forces was not then Effected, though the appearances were favourable, but there Seems an unac countable delay of Intelligence from that quarter. By recent Accounts and Information from New York (on which I place Some dependence) it is Said the 57th Regiment, Raudans [Rawdons] Corps and a detachment of Artillery were to sail for Hallifax on the 29th Ulto. and they were to be Accompanied by all the heavy Ships except the Europa. The Daphne Frigate was to Sail for England at the Same time. That a packet had arrivd the 23rd Ulto. The accounts brought by her seemed very Alarming to Friends of Government. That it was Reported the Ardent of 64 guns was taken (which is since confirmed) [. . .] the Brittish fleet Chased into Portsmouth by the Combined fleet of France & Spain which remaind of that port Several days. I have the Honour to be with great Respect, your most humb Servt, Sami. Huntington Novr 11. P.S. Since writing the foregoing we have receivd the dis- agreable accounts of the defeat of the Expedition against Savannah of which the Bearer can inform. S.H. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 Gates’ October 27 letter to Congress, in which he reported that he had just occu pied Newport, as “this Island was Evacuated by The Enemys Troops on the Night of the 25th Instant,” is in PCC, item 154, 2:194-97. Committee on Appeals Decree November 8th. 1779 John Bradford Lib[ellan]t & App[ell]ee 1 Appeal from vs The Ship Viper her Cargo &c. J the State of Martin Brimmer Claim[an]t & App[ellan]t J Massachusetts Bay 1 We the Commissioners appointed by Congress to hear, try and determine all Appeals from the Courts of Admiralty of the several American States to Congress having heard and fully considered as well all and singular the several Matters and Things mentioned and contained in the Record or Minutes of the proceedings of the Mari time Court of the Middle District of Massachusetts Bay in the above Cause as the Arguments of the Advocates of the respective parties to the said Appeal do thereupon adjudge and decree that the Appeal of the said Martin Brimmer demanded and filed in the said Cause be & the same is dismissed hence with Costs And that the Judgment or Sentence of the said Maritime Court pronounced and published in the said Cause be and the same hereby is in all its’ parts confirmed and established And We do assess the said Costs at one thousand
