160 November 8, 1779 and fifty six Dollars which Sum We do order and adjudge that the party Appellant shall pay unto the party Appellee for his Costs and Charges by him expended in defending the said Appeal in this Court &c. Tho M:Kean Hy. Marchant J Root. C. Griffin MS (DNA: RG 267, case no. 54). In a clerical hand, and signed by Griffin, Marchant, and Root. 1 The Massachusetts Court of Admiralty for the Middle District had awarded the armed ship of war Viper and her cargo both to Continental agent John Bradford and to Samuel Nicholson, commander of the Continental frigate Deane. Capt. Nicholson had captured the Viper on January 24, 1779, off the Massachusetts coast and Bradford had libeled the ship and cargo on behalf of Nicholson and the Continent, claiming that the ship, cargo, and “appurtances” should be distributed to “the captors and others concerned therein.” Martin Brimmer, a Boston merchant, filed a second libel on behalf of Nicholson and his crew, however, claiming that the ship, cargo, and “appurtances” should be distributed “among the captors only.” In their libels both Bradford and Brimmer cited unspecified congressional resolves. Under a congressional resolve of October 30, 1776, concerning the division of prizes, the captain and crew of Continental armed vessels were entitled to the entire value of “all ships and vessels” in case of the capture of armed vessels of war, rather than the customary one-half for merchantmen or other unarmed-vessels. The resolve did not mention the cargo and “appurtances,” however. When the Massachusetts court awarded the ship and cargo to Bradford on June 28, 1779, to be divided between the captors and “others concerned therein,” i.e., the Continental government, Brimmer appealed on behalf of captain and crew to Congress, where on July 24, 1779, the case was referred to the Committee on Appeals. In this decree the committee upheld the Massachusetts court decision. See case file no. 54, RG 267, DNA; and JCC, 6:913, 14:883, 1188-89. John Fell’s Diary Monday Novr. 8th. [1779] Coml Committee. Congress. The Report of the answer to the Ministers Speech was agreed to. 1 MS (DLC). 1 See Fell’s Diary, November 6, 1779, note. James Lovell to John Hancock Novr. 8th. 1779. Sir I hope never to have invincible arguments delivered to me by the Lips of consequential Sufferers to lead me to repent of having pre ferred the Public Good to my private Emolument on very singular Occasions. But strong Arguments I must expect to hear, for my own mind suggests them; and my Wants which prompt that Suggestion are trifling compared to what others connected in my private For-
