November 8, 1779 163 happy in the approbation of his country, but will never be miserable in the want of it—he will always also find a distinguishing, a worthy few, to support and applaud him. Doctor Franklin, I really believe, would have been recalled last April only for myself. The intention in some Gentlemen in Congress appeared to me to be the removal of all our foreign Ministers in order to make way for themselves. My fears were, that a change of men, at that critical period, would imply both in Europe and Amer ica a change of measures, and I was reluctant to give up old servants for new men, whom I could not so well confide in. Doctor Franklin still continues Minister Plenepotentiary at the court of Versailles, Colo. Laurens (the son of the late President of Congress) is appointed his Secretary. Mr. Jay is appointed Minister to the court of Madrid and Mr. Carmichael his Secretary. Mr. Laurens was appointed last Monday Commissioner to the United Provinces for the purpose of negotiating a treaty of Amity and Commerce, but particularly a Loan of money, and he has the nominating his own Secretary. Your’s is the Post of danger and of honor; Our friend Mr. Dana is appointed your Secretary. Nothing more is yet done, but some Consuls must be appointed. You percieve the freedom with which I write to you. I correspond with none, except officially, but in this way, tho’ I am induced to be more free with you, because, notwithstanding I hereby compliment myself, I am certain we have had the same views throughout this whole contest, the good of our country and the happiness of mankind; we have also acted openly and without guile. It will give me great pleasure to hear from you often, and when you are on t’other side of the Atlantic I will as frequently communicate what passes here. Count D’Estaing has not been heard from since the 4th of October, nor have we had a line from General Lincoln, but we flatter our selves all is well. I am, dear Sir, with sincere esteem, Your most obedient humble servant, Tho. M:Kean FC (PHi: McKean Papers). In the hand of Thomas McKean and endorsed by him: “Rough draft of a Lre. to the Honoble. John Adams Esq; Novr. 8th. 1779.” 1 A measure of “the anxieties, cares & troubles” McKean faced in performing his multiple duties is reflected in an open letter to his Newcastle County constituents published in the Pennsylvania Packet of September 7, 1779, in which he resigned his seat in the Delaware assembly. “Gentlemen,” he explained, “Near seventeen years have expired since you first chose me to represent you in General Assembly. The continuation of that choice, especially during the last five years (when I resided out of your State) exhibits the strongest proofs of your approbation of my political conduct, and must manifest to the world, that the sentiments of the representative and the represented, particularly respecting the great and important contest with Great-Britain, and the measures adopted to obtain peace, liberty and safety, were the same. Your affairs now wear the most promising aspect both at home and abroad; and, as I find it to be absolutely impracticable for me to discharge my duty to you as I wish in my present station, I must reiterate my request, that at the ensuing annual election you
