164 November 8, 1779 will be pleased to choose some other person to occupy the seat I have the honor to fill in your Legislature.” 2 An allusion to Dido’s command to Aeneas to recount the painful story of the overthrow of Troy. Virgil Aeneid 2.3. Marine Committee to Henry Laurens Sir, Marine Committee Novr. 8. 1779. This Committee having no proper person in South Carolina to execute the above Order, 1 Request that Collo. Laurens would under take the necessary provision himself. And draw on this Committee for the amount. We are Sir, with great respect, Yr. most Obedt. Servts, Jno. Mathews Chairman RC (NN: Emmet Collection). Written and signed by John Mathews. ' “The above Order,” which was written on the page above this letter, was an extract from the secret journal of November 1 directing the Marine Committee “to make the like provision for the passage of Mr. Laurens to Europe as was directed to be made for Messrs. Jay & Adams.” William Sharpe to Richard Caswell Sir Philadelphia Novr. 8th. 1779 I have the pleasure of sending you inclosed an Extract of a Letter from Genl Gates informing of the evacuation of Rhode Island and an extract of a Letter from Genl. Washington which you will observe ought not to be exposed to public view. 1 We have no better accounts from Europe than it contains. We are not a little surprized at the silence in the Southern States, Congress has received no Authentic accounts from that quarter since the Count arived on the Coast, altho private Letters and other scraps of intelligence gives us flattering hopes. Mr. Laurens is appointed to negociate a Loan in Holland. A small fund in Europe might be applied so as to have a happy effect on our Finances, by disposing of Bills of Exchange and otherwise. The astonishing prices of the necessary supplies for the Army and the low State of our funds are very alarming and does require the most vigorous exertions of all the States. I am under an almost absolute necessity of being home before the hard of winter. I hope to see Mr. Penn and some other gentleman here soon. If none have set out, be so obliging as to interest yourself in that matter. Our State as much as the others ought by no means to be one day unrepresented. I have the mortification to inform you that Mr. Hewes is in so low a state of health that his recovery is much dispaired of—his complaints are Bileous & consumptive.
