November 9, 1779 169 Mr. Hewes is probably within 10 or 12 Hours of his long long long Home. We are balloting our Pens Ink and Paper out about the Treasury. A Mr. Ezekiel Foreman & Mr. Jonathan Trumbull are chosen Commissrs. 2 But the Post will go if I do not close without telling more Tales. You will Probably soon see Mr. Lowell who will tell you all about us. Affectionately, J.L. RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1832). 1 That is, Francis Dana and John Adams. 2 Ezekiel Forman and Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., were elected two of the three perma nent members of the Board of Treasury, which under the treasury ordinance of July 30, 1779, was to consist of three permanent members and two members of Congress, who were to be appointed for six-month terms. John Gibson, the former auditor general, was elected as the third permanent member on November 25, and when Trumbull declined the post, William Denning was selected in his place. After the board assumed office on November 30, 1779, it took over most of the routine business of requisitions and the preparation of reports. For an account of the appointment and operation of the reorganized Board of Treasury, see Edward F. Robinson, “Continental Treasury Administration, 1775-1781: A Study in the Financial History of the American Revolution.” (Ph.D. diss., University of Wisconsin, 1969), pp. 200-57. Henry Marchant to William Greene Dear Sir, Philadelphia Novr. 9th. 1779. I most heartily congratulate your Excellency, the State, and America; upon the Evacuation of Newport by that motly Savage Host that hath so long infested Our Country. It is a happy Event— and I hope will soon be followed with the entire Extirpation of the British Forces out of America. I could have wished for your Excel lency’s own Communication to me of so important an Event. Your Excellency & the other Branches of the Legislature, amidst all the joy, will have an immediate Occasion of important Considera tions. The future Safety of the Town of Newport & the State in General: The proper Line to be adopted as to the internal Enemies— which permit me to suggest, it is expected, will be wise, just and Firm. Not only the present Peace, but, the future Welfare of the State, if not of America will attend much upon this. The next and perhaps no less important Consideration, will be the Defence necessary against the more open Foe. How far the Town of Newport is capable of a full Defense? The Difficulty & Expence on the One Hand—the Advantages as to the State & the Common Cause on the other. How far the State of Herself is capable of mak ing & supporting a Defense in present & future—and how far the United States are interested therein now, or may be hereafter—and how far they ought to be called upon. The best of Military and polit ical wisdom ought to be consulted upon this Occasion.
