170 November 9, 1779 I am but capable of suggesting broken Hints. However such as they are, I find myself constrained to make Them from the Love I bear to the true Interest & Happiness of the State I have the Honor to represent, and the Glory, Happiness and Independence of America. I am with great Truth Your Excellency’s most obedient and very humble Servt. Hy. Marchant P.S. I inclose your Excellency two of the Weekly Journals of Con gress down to Sept. 11. 1779—& the Weekly Papers. RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett My Dear sir, No. 14 Philada. 9th Novr 1779 1 Your favours of the 9th & 20th ulto have Come to hand. 2 I am extreamly obliged by the Continuance of your Letters, and Should have done my self the Honr. of writing more particularly if I had Certainly known where to have directed my letters to be left in order that they might find a Safe Conveyance, without the danger of their being intercepted. However I have wrote Genl. Whipple Some anec dotes respecting the management of foreign Ambassys—with the names of Persons Elected for that Purpose &ca, 3 which as you are acquainted with many Characters here might be Somewhat amusing. There Seems a little Prospect of obtaining a foreign Loan, in Some of the Low Countrys—our Freind Mr. H. L ns 4 is to negociate that business. No official Accounts from Count D’Estaing, Since that of his having besieged the Savannah—Nor of the movements of the Enemy worth Notice Since their Evacuating R. Island. In Dunlaps Paper of last Saturday you will See a very Curious Manifesto 5 which may be relied upon as authentic altho not officially Reed. I must beg of you to Seal the Cover directed to Mrs. Peabody, inclosing its Contents & forward it, after having read the News papers, I take this method as being less expensive, and may Serve for the purpose of Communicating the News to you, & my friends in Atkinson without much inconvenience. I have heard that our friend S. H 1 6 of Exeter is Taxed with being Guilty of Evil Communication &c. I most Sincerely wish you Success in deleating those Secret Vulturs who cease not day & night to prey upon the vitals of America. When the Truth Comes to light it will be found there is more than one or two—in the Conspiracy. By this days Paper you may observe the Treatment that Such People meet with in this State. 7 I am my Dear Sir, with Sentiments of Esteem your most obedt. & very Huml Servt, Nathl Peabody P.S. My Compliments to friends.
