176 November 11, 1779 Samuel Huntington to John Hancock Sir, Philada Novem. 11th 1779 I do myself the Honour to transmit the enclos’d Act of Congress of the 8th instant desiring the late & former Presidents to lodge as soon as they conveniently can in the Secretaries Office copies of all public Letters by them respectively written during their President ships. 1 I have the honour to be, with great respect, your most humble Servt. S.H. President LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 See JCC, 15:1249-50. Since Hancock’s presidential letterbooks remained in his possession at his death, and subsequently became part of the regular collections of the Massachusetts Historical Society and then of the Library of Congress before being added to the “Papers of the Continental Congress” now at the National Archives, Hancock apparently failed to respond to this request. No other body of Hancock’s presidential letters is known to exist. For Huntington’s repetition of this request, see also Huntington to Hancock, Feb ruary 27, 1781, note 2. Samuel Huntington to Benjamin Lincoln Sir, Philadelphia 11th Novr. 1779. I am favour’d with your letter of the 22d Ulto. by Major Clarkson, containing an Account of the failure of the Expedition in Georgia. 1 You will herewith receive enclosed an Act of Congress of this day; 2 Also an Act of the 10th Inst. 3 and a Copy of an Act of the 27th July last and the letter accompanying the last mentioned Act, Ordering General Scott to forward the troops under his Command to Charles town as expeditiously as possible. 4 By these several enclosures You will be informed of the measures Congress have taken from time to time, and are still taking to reinforce the army under your command And aid the States of South Carolina and Georgia; also that you are to cause a court of enquiry to be held on Brigadier General Scott for disobedience of the Orders above mentioned. 5 It was thought expedient that Major Clarkson should proceed with Copies of your dispatches, to the Commander in Cheif, and give his personal information to his Excellency General Washington on the subject. I am with great respect, Your humble servt, Sami. Huntington President RC (MHi: Lincoln Papers). In the hand of George Bond and signed by Ffuntington. 1 Lincoln’s October 22 letter to Congress is in PCC, item 158, fols. 279-84.
