180 November 12, 1779 regiment from a project to cut a road into Canada, leaving Massachusetts more vulnerable on its northern frontier. See the preceding entry, note 2. As this decision nearly coincided with a general redeployment of Continental resources to South Carolina (Massachusetts particularly resisted the reassignment of the Continental frigates at Boston), the Massachusetts delegates were pessimistic that vigorous mea sures against Canada could be revived in the foreseeable future. 2 See Samuel Huntington to Washington, November 10, and to Benjamin Lincoln, this date. Committee of Congress to Benjamin Lincoln Sir, Philadelphia Novr. 12th. 1779 We received your letter of the 23d of October, the 10th Inst. We are extreamly sorry the expedition to Georgia (on which we had formed the most sanguine expectations of success) has ended so unfortunately. It therefore now behoves us to be doubly industrious, in indea- vouring to prepare against the worst that may happen in conse quence thereof. It is unnecessary for us to inclose you Copies of the Acts of Con gress on this subject, as they will be now forwarded to you by the President. 1 The succours from hence we are sensible will be in no capacity to render you any service for a length of time, & we place no depen dence in their being able to reach you, so soon as the reinforcements to the enemy from New York, will them. However as we are induced to believe Virginia & North Carolina will, at the present alarming Crisis, strenuously exert themselves to afford you substantial Aid, we flatter ourselves, we shall not be again disappointed in our expecta tions from that quarter, in consequence of which, you will be ena bled to make a tolerable stand, untill the troops from hence can come up. We have little doubt, but what the expedition now forming at New York, is directed against the Southern States. Apprehending this to be the case, Congress have ordered three of the Continental Frigates, to proceed immediately for Chs. Town, to be under your Command, and which we think, will be of essential service to you in the defence of the Harbour. 2 Whatever else can be from time to time thought of, for the better defence, & Security of your Command, will be prop erly attended to. We hope you will be more frequent in your communicating to us, as we think it is necessary to be informed as often as can be done, of your situation, & what might be further necessary for promoting the service of your department. We congratulate you on the happy event of the evacuation of Rhode Island caused we conceive from an expectation of a visit from Count D’Estaing.
