November 12, 1779 187 nately persevered in their Attachments to the Common Enemy, whether by actually entering into Their Service—or by basely prefer ring their Protection and their Cause; will never be Our Friends whatever Appearances they may put on under pressing & necessi tous circumstances. At least They will ever be ready to enter into Parties and Intrigues destructive of the Interest & Happiness of the United States. They will promote every Measure that shall tend to sow the Seed of Disunion amongst Us. They will—which is the Point I mostly aim at—when a Peace shall suceed to this War—Fall into a British Party, stir up Jealousies against the French, and distract the Minds of good People as much as possible. They will merge the Destination of Whig and Tory, into that of Gallican, and antigallican— and possibly in future Time raise their own Popularity upon the Ruin of the true honest Whig, whose gratitude will be lasting to the French Nation and whose Resentment Against Briton may not easily be assuaged. A line of prudence and Firmness ought to be adopted & if possible very similar throughout the States. A word more as to the present Intentions of the Enemy. It is thought most generally they will send a large Detachment to Carolina—may they not first attempt Virginia—and Maryland? While I was writing this, I was honored with yours of the 7th Instant by Coll Webb. I doubt not but Congress will early pay Attention to the Application which may be made. My Inclination will lead me in every Instance to gratify the wishes of brave and unfortunate Gentle men when it may not be inconsistant with their greater Interest & the Honor and Safety of the States. My closest attention to the Sub ject when it comes on, I hope will lead me to a proper Determination as far as it respects myself, and I shall be happy that it may coincide with Your Wishes and the Feelings of those worthy & brave officers who conceive themselves so much interested in the Question. Should I find myself constrained to an opinion contradictory to those wishes I shall feel a sensible Reluctance in the Complyance with such a Duty. I am very sorry that any Dispositions made with respect to seperate Commands—or your appointment in the Staff should have deprived you of an Opportunity of doing Justice to your own Character in the Line. I was ever sorry you came into the Line—had I been present when it was done, as I have before told You, I should have opposed it. From what I knew of it, I was confident of the Difficulties in some Measure that would arise, I was doubtful whether in the Event it would be to your Interest, I knew however it would generally be conceived you had made an ample Fortune. I knew then there was not much of Character to be given—tho’ much at Stake—and that You ran the Risk of sinking the Military Character into the Staff. My Friendship to You, & the Duty I owe the Publick will lead me—so far as may be in my Power—to assist in restoring you entirely again to
