188 November 12, 1779 this Military Character. And to Such a Situation as you may be able to do Justice to Yourself and the greatest possible Good to your Country. But this I fear cannot speedily be done, at least not untill another year shall open upon us—And which I could wish may open with Peace, Liberty and Independence to these States. Our next authentick Intelligence from Europe may satisfy us upon this Subject. I am sorry Genl. Lincoln is not altogether so happy a Man, as you viewed him when you last Wrote. That Reflection in your Mind, I presume, as is natural, caused some of those Reflections as to your own Situation. May we not learn this Useful Lesson—That in what ever situation we are in, let us strive therewith to be content. Reli gion & true Philosophy teaches us so to be. I wish I could conform myself to it. Forgive this moral Digression, if so it may be thought. I expect Mr. Ellery Our very good Friend is now upon the Road for Congress to relieve me. I propose to set out by the 25th of this Month, and in Company with Mr. Wm. Redwood who goes to see how his Interests stand at Newport &c. If Head Quarters shall not be too far out of our Rout, I will endeavour to see you. However that may be, be assured I am yr. sincere Friend & humble Servt. Hy.Marchant P.S. You will excuse this Scrawl—I cannot submit to make a Copy of it. RC (RNHi: Letters of Henry Marchant). 1 Lt. Col. John Laurens had been in Charleston and was en route with news for Washington and Congress from the comte d’Estaing. 2 See Marchant to William Greene, November 9, 1779. 3 Marchant’s letters to “some other Friends” have not been found. Jesse Root to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Please your Excellency Philadelphia Novr. 12th 1779 Providence by another Striking Instance has reproved our Confi dence in an arm of flesh and taught us the vanity of humane power, however great, to insure Success, has defeated our flattering pros pects to the Southward & tumbled our Towring Expectations to the ground. By dispatches from Genl. Lincoln In Congress the Com bined armies of America & France under Genl Lincoln & the Count de Estaing laid Seige to Savanna, Opened their batteries on the 5th of Octr. & Continued the Seige with little intermission untill the 8th of Octr. without bringing the Enimy to Surrender, and the time being elapsed which the Count had liberty to Stay, no alternative was left but to raise the Seige or attempt to Carry the Town by Storm—the latter was Concluded upon, the necessary preparations were made and in the morning of the 9th ulto. they attempted to Storm the place and were unfortunately repulsed with Considerable loss. Pre-
