November 12, 1779 189 cise returns are not transmitted but Genl Lincoln Says in his letter he had about 174 killed & wounded. Count de Estaing is wounded in two places, he behaved with great Spirit on the Occasion & appeared greatly Chagrined at the misfortune. Count Poulaski is killed & the loss of the French is said to be between three & four hundred killed & wounded. The French Troops have reimbarked on board their Ships & Genl Lincoln has retired to South Carolina & left the Enemy in possession of Georgia. The French army Consisted of three thousand, the troops under Genl Lincoln between one & two thousand. The Enemy, after Col Maitland Joined them, were about 3000 Strong. The Lord Reigneth, who will make us to know that the glory of our Salvation he will not divide with another. I beleive Such disappointments are necessary & that which now appears to be a Misfortune will prove the means of our final Safety. Your Excellency’s letter respecting the monthly requisitions of the State of Connecticut has been laid before Congress & is Committed, 1 how Successful it will be am unable to determine, as almost every reason Suggested therein were urged by the Delegates in Congress against so large a Sum, at the time of making the requisition—however Shall do every thing in my power to have the Sum reduced. By Several letters reed, we were able to Satisfy Congress of our right to Set in Congress & now hold our Seats their althoug we have received no official Information. 2 Mr Sherman is returning home. I expect to leave Congress about the 25th Inst, before which time I Expect to be releived. Mr. Laurence left this last Saturday 3 to go to Charlestown from whence he is to go to Holland to negociate a treaty of amity & Commerce with those Provinces & to obtain a loan. He was gone before Mr Brown arrived. The President took your letters directed to Mr. Laurence. Since writing this letter Genl Lincoln letter is pub lished in the paper to which I refer your Excellency for a particular Acct, and am Most respectfully, your Excellency’s, most obedt hum ble Servant Jesse Root P.S. Colo Jonth Trumbull is appointed a Commissioner on the Board of Treasury during the pleasure of Congress with a Salary of 14,000 dollars per annum. 4 RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 Gov. Trumbull’s November 2 letter to Congress requesting permission to retain a part of Connecticut’s 1780 quota for defraying “the Extraordinary expences" incurred defending the state against the British raids at New Haven and Fairfield the previous summer, was read and referred to committee on November 10. Although its report was submitted on December 7, Congress did not adopt the committee’s recommenda tion to reject the state’s appeal until December 28. See JCC, 15:1254, 1357, 1415-17; PCC, item 66, 2:33-36; Roger Sherman to Trumbull, December 20; and Samuel Huntington to Trumbull, December 29, 1779. 2 “Official Information” of the Connecticut delegates’ credentials was not presented to Congress until November 24. JCC, 15:1301. See also Root to Oliver Ellsworth, November 1, 1779, note 1.
