November 13, 1779 191 2 For the measures recently taken to reinforce the southern department, see Sam uel Huntington to Benjamin Lincoln, November 11, 1779. Committee on Appeals Decree November 13th. 1779. Francis Gurney &c Lib[ellan]t & App[ell]eel Appeal from vs. The Schooner Good Intent Cargo > the State of Tam Ploy Claim[an]t & App[ellan]t J Pennsylvania 1 We the Commissioners appointed by Congress to hear, try and determine all Appeals from the Courts of Admiralty of the several American States to Congress having heard and fully considered as well all and singular the Matters and Things mentioned and con tained in the Record or Minutes of the Proceedings of the Court of Admiralty of the State of Pennsylvania in the Above Cause as the Arguments of the Advocates of the respective Parties to the above Appeal do thereupon adjudge and decree that the Appeal of the aforesaid Tam Ploy demanded and filed in the above Cause be and the same is hereby dismissed with Costs And that the Judgment or Sentence of the said Court of Admiralty passed and published in the said Cause be and the same hereby is in all it’s parts confirmed and established And we do assess the Costs in this Cause at one thousand an sixty Dollars and hereby order and adjudge that the party Appel lant pay unto the party Appellee the said Sum for his Costs and Charges by him expended in defending the said Appeal in this Court &c. Tho M:Kean Hy. Marchant C. Griffin J Root MS (DNA: RG 267, case no. 44). In a clerical hand, and signed by Griffin, Marchant, McKean, and Root. 1 The Pennsylvania Court of Admirality had awarded the schooner Good Intent and her cargo to Lt. Col. Francis Gurney and his troops of the 11th Pennsylvania Regi ment who had captured the schooner on January 10, 1777, when it foundered on the New Jersey shore while sailing to New York from Jamaica. The ship was not formally libeled by Gurney until two years later, however, when the owner, Tam Ploy, appeared in the United States. After the Pennsylvania court decision on January 9, 1779, Ploy appealed to Congress, where the case was referred to the Committee on Appeals on February 8, 1779. Ploy argued that the schooner was really La Puella, bound for Philadelphia with a consignment for one of the firms of Robert Morris. The Committee on Appeals rejected the appeal in this decree and confirmed the state court’s decision. See case file no. 44, RG 267, DNA; and JCC, 13:152.
