November 15, 1779 197 John Fell’s Diary Monday Novr. 15. [1779] Coml Committee. Sundry Letters &c. Motion from Mr Gerry that no member of Congress, should hold any Office or be chose while a Member or for 6 Mo after. 1 Nominated Gentlemen for the Admi ralty Board. 2 MS (DLC). 1 For Elbridge Gerry’s previous attempt to pass a similar motion, see Henry Laurens’ Notes, September 24, 1779. 2 For the election of the board’s commissioners, see Samuel Huntington to Thomas Waring, November 27, 1779. Medical Committee to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia Novr. 15th. 1779. In Pursuance of a Resolution of Congress of the 4th instant (a Copy of which is enclosed) I am directed by the medical Committee to transmit to your Excellency some Papers relative to a Complaint filed by the Inhabitants of the Town of Danbury against the Deputy director general of the eastern Department. The Papers are marked from No. 1 to No. 4 inclusive, and will with this, be handed you by Doctor Foster, who proposes to wait on your Excellency in his Way to the eastward to receive your Com mands. 1 I have the Honor to be with the highest Esteem And most perfect Respect, your Excellency’s most Obedient And very Humble Servant, Nath. Scudder 2 Chairman RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Written and signed by Nathaniel Scudder. 1 Dr. Isaac Foster’s conduct as deputy director of the Eastern Department had long been before Congress, the present charges stemming from a December 14, 1778, memorial of “the Inhabitants of the Town of Danbury,” for which see Samuel Holten’s Diary, June 4-5, 1779, note 1. Because Congress and the medical committee had failed to take action on the town’s charges, however, the author of the memorial, Thaddeus Benedict, had renewed the attack on Foster in a letter to Congress of October 26 citing recent denunciations of Foster in the Pennsylvania Packet and offer ing to furnish depositions in support of the original charges. Thus on November 4 Congress ordered an investigation and directed the medical committee to send Benedict’s memorial to Washington along with “such other papers as they may have respecting the matter.” The following day Congress also received a letter from Foster requesting an inquiry into his public conduct. See JCC, 15:1237, 1240. In addition to Congress’ November 4 resolution, the committee sent Washington “Papers . . . marked from No. 1 to No. 4,” which were undoubtedly a May 28 letter by Foster to the medical committee, a May 27 certification by Dr. William Burnet in support of Foster, and Benedict’s and Foster’s October 26 and November 4 letters. All are in the Wash ington Papers, DLC, with the latter two clearly marked “No.3" and “No.4.” On December 4 Washington replied that “whenever the trials that have been pre viously directed are finished, I shall pay the earliest attention to the enquiry ordered.”
