206 November 16, 1779 succeeding one we condole. Alas! for the southern Disappointment! Indeed the same Day often exhibits a Medley of Mourning and Festivity, of Joy & Lamentation; witness the 11th instant, the Day after we received the melancholly Confirmation of the Repulse of the allied Armies at Savannah. On that Day the President of this State was elected and proclaimed, and on that Day the Funeral of our Friend & fellow laborer Mr. Hewes of North Carolina was attended with the usual mournfull Formalities. About 12 o’clock the Presi dent of the State, Mr. Reed, was proclaimed from the Court House Steps, and a Feu de Joy fired on the Occasion; after which there was a Procession to & Collation at the City Tavern, the Bells chyming joy ously &c. &c. About 4 o’Clock the funeral Procession of the Honble Mr. Hewes began, the Same Bells ringing muffled; and as we proceeded down Market-Street we had a fine View of the continental Colours displayed on Market Street Wharf in Honor to the President. When we arrived at Christ’s Church we were entertained with the usual Service, and a very solemn funeral Anthem, after which the Body was interred. Scarce had the Attendants reached their Homes, before the Bells again unmuffled resumed their festive Sounds, with firings as usual, and the Evening closed with a grand Serenade at the governor’s Door. Sic eminet; & sic transit gloria Mundi. I observe by the last Boston Paper that Mr. Samuel Stockton, who has for a considerable Time acted as Secretary to Mr. William Lee in various parts of Europe, 1 is arrived in that City from Amsterdam; I daily expect him here, and hope for much usefull Information from him, as from our former Intimacy I expect to find him unreservedly communicative. I doubt not he will be very able to unravle some of our foreign Mysteries. Congress is at present very thin, rarely more than 10 States represented, often but 9. Many important Businesses on Progress much as usual. What can the Neglect of your State be attributed to? only one Member here for many Weeks. 2 Mr. Duane is again in the Delegation from New York—Goverr. Morris left out. Mr. Floyd in again, Mr. Lewis out—General Schuyler, Mr. Scot, Mr. Livingston & a Mr. Lommedeau added. Our old worthy Friend Mr. Sherman left out by Connecticut, this I think not a little ominous, as he is one of the Originals. In short, what with the Effect of Manoeuvre on the one hand, and of Necessity on the other, I fear, entre nous, both that State and New Jersey will next year appear in different Colours from what they have heretofore done. As for myself, sheer Necessity com pels me to retire, and I have therefore so ordered it with my Friends as that I expect not even to be balloted for. My Time expires on the first of December, so that I shall be here only one Week after this. 3 I wish I may be happy enough to hear from you before I leave Philadelphia. To morrow at 12 o’Clock is fixed for the public Audience of the New Minister of France. There will be a public Dinner.
