212 November 18, 1779 business will Expire before another is appointed unless Congress is pushed to It both here and from Your Quarter. A Memorial of the Gen. Officers 3 was Yesterday 4 read and Committed, to Mr. Root, Mr. Morris & Mr. Schuyler. I shall urge a Speedy report, but Entre nous, people here are not So Attentive to business as the vast variety and Importance of what is on hand seems to require. I am Dear Sir with the most Ardent wishes for Your Happiness, Respectfully & faithfully Your Excellency’s most Obedient hum Servant, Ph. Schuyler RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See the preceding entry. 2 That is, Jeremiah Wadsworth. See Samuel Huntington to Wadsworth, December 4, 1779. 3 A November 15, 1779, memorial of general officers was read in Congress on November 18 and referred to “the committee appointed to consider what allowance ought to be made to the officers in the different departments of the army, to whom the provision of 18 August last doth not extend.” Schuyler had been appointed on November 16 to replace Samuel Atlee on that committee. The committee’s report, which is in the hand of Schuyler, was read in Congress on December 1, but apparently no action was taken. See JCC, 15:1274, 1286, 1335-37; and PCC, item 41, 7:259-66. See also Samuel Huntington to Alexander McDougall, August 13, 1780. Schuyler’s work on the memorial of the general officers is also reflected in the following letter to him from Maj. Gen. Benedict Arnold. “Since I saw you this morning,” Arnold wrote on November 24, “I made the Inclosed minutes [not found} by which you will see that Six Rations, & Sixteen hundred & Fifty Dollars Subsistance money, is by no means equal to the Rations which the General Officers have allways received. I don’t believe it is the wish of the General Officers to have any Addition (to t]heir Rations. Their pay made good and [a new?] Establishment after the War I believe will [co]ntent them. I have shown the minutes to Mr. Root who is of opinion that it will not be best to make any Alterations in the Rations.” Schuyler Papers, NN. 4 Schuyler may have completed this letter on November 19. The memorial of the general officers was read in Congress on November 18; and this paragraph is slightly separated from the preceding at the bottom of the page. John Fell’s Diary Friday Novr 19th [1779] Com[mercial] Com[mittee]. Congress. Report for regulating Prices @ 20 for 1 agreed to for all home Manufactories &c and all imported articles to bear a Proportion to the above. 1 MS (DLC). 1 Samuel Holten also noted in his diary of this date that “Congress passed several resolutions for regulating prices.” MDaAr. For these resolves, see Samuel Huntington to the States, November 22, 1779.
