214 November 19, 1779 Massachusetts Delegates to Samuel Adams and John Hancock Gentlemen Philadelphia Novr 19. 1779 We beg Leave to inclose You a Copy of a Subscription, originated in this City for the benevolent Purpose of Supporting & educating the Children of our late worthy Friend Major General Warren, 1 by which it will appear that the Name of the General Assembly & also of the Council of Massachusetts Bay is inadvertently used in a Manner which may not be approved by them; for this, & other Reasons, We have tho’t it our Duty to suggest the Impropriety of the Measure, to the Gentlemen who promoted it; for, should the Subscription be more successful than We expect, yet, it is not probable that a Sum will be raised adequate to the purpose, & it may also be hurtful to the Feelings of the Children, to reflect hereafter on the Mode proposed for affording them Relief. Notwithstanding, We shall chearfully con tribute in our private Capacity, We are still of Opinion, that consider ing the Merit of General Warren, the Services which he rendered to his Country, & the distressed Circumstances of these Orphans, some Provission should be made by the publick, more advantageous to the former & consistent with the Honor due to the Memory of our deceased Friend, than what is proposed by the Subscription, & We shall move that a Committee appointed by Congress some Time past to consider this Matter, may be directed to report. How far it will be proper to communicate the Matter to the Gen eral Assembly & to urge their Beneficence, We submit to your Consideration, & shall acquiesce in your Opinion relative to the same. We remain Gentlemen with Respect, your very huml Servants, E Gerry James Lovell RC (NN: Emmet Collection). Written by Gerry and signed by Gerry and Lovell. 1 For further information on the private subscription for the children of the late Gen. Joseph Warren, which was promoted by Gen. Benedict Arnold but opposed by the Massachusetts delegates because they sought public support for Warren’s dependents, see these Letters, 12:111 -12. A copy of the subscription notice is printed in Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4:171-73. On July 1, 1780, Congress resolved to pay for the “maintenance and education” of Warren’s children “to the amount of the half-pay of a major-general, to commence at the time of his death, and continue until the youngest of the said children shall be of age.”JCC, 17:581.
