November 22, 1779 219 New Jersey Delegates to Caleb Camp Sir, Philada 22 Novr 1779. Enclosed you have the result of the Deliberations of Congress on the representation of the 7th ulto respecting a general Limitation of Prices. 1 We beg Leave to say that with Attention to the Interests of the Union in general and the State in particular, and also to the Convenience of the Legislature, we have left no Means untried to give Success and Dispatch to the Business. The Legislature, we flat ter ourselves, will be disposed to overlook any Defects in the Plan recommended by Congress compared with the Scope and Tenour of their representation, when they reflect that different States as well as Individuals, however they may coincide in the main Substance of a Measure, vary often in their Ideas on particular Parts, and also when they are informed that what we have now the Pleasure to transmit has passed with a great Degree of Unanimity. For the Sake of this and greater Expedition, Policy dictated to concede a little. From Appearances we think ourselves justified to say that the measure recommended will, in all probability, be universally adopted through out the Union. The Date of Commencement is more distant than could have been wished, but when the remoteness of some of the States is considered, as also that many of the Legislatures are not sitting, and that the Limitations ought to take Place at the same Time every where, it could not well be gainsayed. Other Arguments also have been urged tending to shew that this will give fuller Efficacy to the Measure by giving People, an Opportunity to provide against Losses and Disappointments to their essential Prejudice. The ratio of the Prices to those current formerly, though by many thought too large, is set at a Limit which we hope will produce an easy Turn to the Tide of Depreciation, and make a further reduction in due Time more natural and practicable. We have the Honour to be, with all respect, your obedt hble Servants, Jno Witherspoon Nath. Scudder John Fell William Ch. Houston RC (Nj: State Papers). Written by Houston and signed by Houston, Fell, Scudder, and Witherspoon. Addressed: “Honorable Caleb Camp, Esquire, Speaker of the House of Assembly of New-Jersey, Mount-Holly.” 1 See the preceding entry. Nathaniel Scudder to Henry Laurens My Dear Sir, Philadelphia Novr. 22d. 1779 I was yesterday, by the Hand of Colonel Laurens honored with your agreeable Favor of the [16th] and 17th instant, and I most sincerely thank you for [them.]
