220 November 22, 1779 The Account we have received since your Departure of our Repulse & Disappointment at Savannah compelled me to adopt the Adage contained in the fi[rst] Line of your Letter, and I think upon the Whole I [can] say “Aye”—altho’ I must confess I cannot fairly see how. Our worthy & amiable Friend Colo. Laurens is gone to Head- Quarters, where I hope he will be determined to quit his military Engagements, and to accept his Appointment to Paris—may I ven ture to say I [can] hardly forgive his Father for not having used his Influence to prevail on him to do so—however being fully acquainted with the Prudence & Delicacy of the Gentleman, who sustains that happy Relation to him, I freely acquiesce. We did not elect a New President on Monday [nor] have we since, but after Several Days absence Mr. Huntington resumed the Chair by general Cofnsent] and Business has proceeded as usual. Congress h[as been?] very thin, rarely more than ten States represented, and frequently no more than nine. Genl. Schuyler and Mr. Robert R. Livingston are now here from New-York. Neither the Doctor 1 nor myself are elected for the ensuing year. The Members elected by New Jersey are [Mr. Fell,] Mr. Houston and Colo. Henderson, who, if he accepts, w[ill be a very? goo]d Man. Congress is doing every Thing possible for the Assistance of the southern States, and we hope to be able to embark the North-Carolina Brigade, and any other Troops General Washington can spare on Board Count De Gras’s Squadron in Chesapeak, which if effected will afford a speedy Reinforcement to your City, and save immense Expence and fatigue. I rejoice to hear some french Frigates are [yet] at Charles Town for it’s present Defence; and I am of Opinion the Embarkation from New York will not take Place while the french Line-of-Battle Ships con tinue hovering on our Coast. We have indeed some Accounts from thence which say they have debarked a great Number of Troops, which they had put on Board. I am now, my Dear Friend, retiring to a private Life, this being my last Week in Congress; 2 but believe me I have no Idea of shrinking from any further Share in this important Contest—No Sir—I will continue to exert myself on all Occasions for the public Good, both by a spirited Opposition to all peculators & public Defaulters, and, if necessary, by again taking up the Sword, and even in the Ranks with those (over whom I lately held a high Command) exposing my Life, which with my Honor are almost all I have left to expose out of that List of Valueables, which when I early signed the General Associa tion I solemnly devoted to the good of my injured Country. I know you pity me for the unequal Sacrifices I have made—I thank you for it. But I know that I have done nothing more than every honest man ought to have done; and I appeal to Heaven [. . ,}nk Necessity alone which compels me [. . . ac]cept public Station. Congress has at Length adopted a set of Resolves whereby they recommend to the States a
