November 22, 1779 221 general Limitation of Prices, so that no Labor or Country Produce shall exceed 20 Prices of the Year 1774. What the Effect will be Time only can demonstrate. We were yesterday, and shall be this Day [laying] a Plan for draw ing upon yourself and Mr. Jay for 100,000 Sterling at 6 months sight—whether we venture a Leap in the Dark I know not; I rather [think] we shall—how would you like to meet with a Number of these Bills on your Arrival at Amsterdam. Desperate Diseases require desperate Rimedies. Mr. John Adams & Mr. Francis Dana accept the Appointment & will sail in a few Days. I thank you for your kind Expressions in Favor of myself and Family, and were it not that I fear to offend your generous Delicacy, I would in the most emphatical Language paint my Gratitude to you for that unmerited Attention you have paid me in Person and for the numerous Favors you have conferrd upon me and my Son—but I will not give you Particulars.] I only wish to continue to share the Honor of [your] Friendship, and that my Son, 3 whom you have been [. . .] so kindly to patronise, may render himself worthy of your goodness and future Attention. He and [his] Sister join in present ing you their most respectfull Complements, and in wishing you a safe & prosperous Voyage. You have my most ardent Prayers for this and every other Success and Blessing [tempora]! & spiritual to which your most sanguine W[. . . as]pire. I shall esteem it a peculiar happiness to hear from you immediately after your safe Arrival in Europe, and as often afterwards as your important Business there will permit. I shall hold my Son attendant on your Commands at least untill the Beginning of the Summer; [In the] mean Time shall urge him to make every Improvement in his Power. If it be agreable to you, you will please to place your Letters to me under cover to the President of Congress, who can conveniently hand them to my Son—mine to you will come through the same Conveyance. And now, my Dear Sir, permit me to repeat my anxious Wishes for your future Wellfare, and to subscribe myself with the highest Regard, Your sincerely affectionate Friend, & most obliged Humble Servant, Nathl Scudder [P.S. Nothing?] in this Day’s Paper worth enclosing. RC (PHi: Jenkins Collection). RC damaged, but many missing words conjectured in an unidentified hand. Alternate readings have been supplied where necessary. 1 That is, John Witherspoon. 2 Scudder’s term was to expire December 1; he apparently last attended Congress on November 25 or 26. 3 Probably Joseph Scudder, who was a clerk for the Board of War.
