November 27, 1779 229 of the late convention at Hartford, you well know that every Individ ual in Congress is not So wise as allways to Judge conformable to their resolves and this in particular is a Subject on which Time and Experience only, & the latter repeated will bring all men to agree in Judgment. I have little if any news of Importance which you have not receivd. A part of Count D. Estaings Squadron tis said about Eight Ships of the line and Some Frigates are arrivd in the Chesapeake but their future destination is yet unknown perhaps to refresh & victual & return to the west Indies but this is bare conjecture. I have the pleasure to inform you that as great harmony & con cord Subsists in Congress as ever I knew or can be expected in Such a body, however by a refind practice we use a little too much Scrip ture language for my taste i e our language is too too much ay & no, but tis a Custom Some are fond of as being usefull in their Opinion. I hope the Wisdom of Congress and of the Several States will lead to such Measures the ensuing winter that we may be prepared for peace or war as events may be but I most Sincerely wish the former. I am with Compliments to your Lady & Sincere Esteem & regard for yourself [I am] your humble Servant, Sami Huntington RC (CtHi: Oliver Wolcott Papers). William Churchill Houston to Robert Morris Dear Sir Philada. 27 Novr 1779 Yours of 3 instant 1 I received a few Days after Date, and beg you will accept my Acknowledgments for it. The Question relative to the Crown-lands which you mention, 2 is never out of Sight; and I am more and more convinced must, for the Peace of the Union, be settled upon some different Principles. I am as fully convinced of the Weakness of the Claims as before I came to Congress, and not less doubtful whether they will ever tend even to the pecuniary Interest of those who set them up. Certain I am they will never promote, but will probably ruin their political Interest. It is not however the less just that we should have our Share of the Proceeds of those Lands; and here arises a Question which I recom mend to your Consideration. Whether had we better contend for this on United or Confederated Grounds. [Maryland says, as we are; others are of a different Opinion. I would be happy to hear your Sentiments on so interesting a Question, as I am far from being clear that the Charters of some States, or any Muniments by which they can justify a Claim, extend as has been too credulously supposed. It gives me much Pleasure to hear of the Success of the Loan in your County, and am persuaded if Gentlemen of Influence would equally exert themselves in other Places the Effect would be the
