230 November 27, 1779 same. But many rather set idle and wish that Things may go right, than put their Exertions to work to forward them. The Progress of Loans for a while in the present Exigency, is a desirable Object, but this pressing Crisis over, they had better be discontinued in future as being a disadvantageous way of raising Money. You speak of the Eligibility of foreign Loans to a moderate Amount; and I am fortunate to find you agree with my Ideas on this Matter. You know already, or will ere long that this is not a Subject dormant or untouched. But you hold with me I trust that it would not be best to go so far as to make one Tittle of Exertion at Home, and in our own Power, unnecessary. A domestick is preferable before a foreign Debt, unless the latter is contracted at considerable Advan tage above the former. The Idea of interesting European Powers in our Favour, is worthy of the Attention of Statsemen. I hear little from my Friends at Mount Holly but am contented to be neglected, if the high Concerns of the State engross their whole Attention. Can you steal Half an Hour to inform me what is done and doing? The Army, the General writes us, is moving to Quarters, princi pally in New-Jersey. I hope this will be some Relief to our Militia. No News of much Importance, but a Report from the West-Indies that the English Fleet are worsted in the Channel. We wait for a Confir mation, as it has no Mark of Authenticity yet. If you spare Time to look into this [tent?] of Hurry, Squabbling and Noise, beg you will not pass by. Your sincere Friend and hble Servant, William Ch Houston RC (NjR: Robert Morris Papers). 1 Morris’ draft of his November 3 letter to Houston is in the Morris Papers, NjR. 2 Houston had discussed Virginia’s opposition to the claims of the Vandalia and Indiana companies in his letter to Morris of October 2, and Morris had returned to the subject in his November 3 response. “The new Argument you mention,” Morris noted, “when inquired into I am perswaded will prove ill founded like the others. If the Crown was not intitled [i.e., to grant vacant lands] who was? & in whose name were the Grants made. The denying the right of the Crown, destroys the title to the past Locations & militates against themselves. But suppose the right contravested. This possession was confessedly in the Crown. Let that possession be transferred to Congress & I trust they too will have force to retain it & do the Union justice, at least I’ll stake my life on the Contest.” Ibid. For their continued discussion of the western land issue, see Houston to Morris, March 6, 1780. For the views of a New York delegate, see Philip Schuyler to George Clinton, November 29, 1779. Samuel Huntington to Thomas Waring Sir, Philada Novemr 27th 1779 You will receive herewith enclos’d an Act of Congress of the 28th ulto establishing a board of Admiralty to superintend the naval & marine Affairs of these United States. 1
