240 November 30, 1779 adviseable to stop the suit already commenced till Judgement is obtained upon the principal question after which it will be in Mr Bingham’s power to discharge himself by delivering to the true own ers the property placed in his Hands for their Use. If you should be of a contrary opinion they request you to furnish Mr Bingham’s Agent with the enclosed papers. 1 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). Addressed: “To the Legislature of the State of Mass. Bay.” 1 William Bingham’s October 6, 1779, letter to the Committee for Foreign Affairs explaining this case was received and referred on November 24 to a committee consisting of Robert R. Livingston, Henry Marchant, and Roger Sherman. The committee’s report, which Congress adopted on November 29, simply recommended that the president transmit Bingham’s letter and enclosed documents to the Massachu setts legislature with this letter of explanation, which was drafted by Livingston. See JCC, 15:1302, 1332; and PCC, item 19, 1:345-46, item 90, fols. 180-205. The follow ing extract from the proceedings of the Massachusetts Council and House of January 4, 1780, pertaining to this case is also filed with these papers in PCC, item 90, fol. 206. “That as in the usual course of Law the two Actions [commenced against Bingham] will be continued to April Court in the County of Suffolk and there is a probability in the mean time of an Accomodation of the Matter in dispute, that the further Consid eration thereof be refer’d to the next Session of this Court.” Robert R. Livingston to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia 30th Nov’r 1779. I did myself the honor to write to you last week, 1 but missing the post you will receive that letter by, this conveyance, since which noth ing material has hapned here, except that I find a violent inclination in most of the States to appropriate all the western Lands to the use of the United States, & in proportion, as they feel the weight of taxes, that inclination will increase, till I fear it will at last overpower us, unless we contrive to make a sacrafice of part to secure the remainder. This I think we may do to advantage now, while they treat our title with some respect. I would, therefore, submit it to your Excellency whether it would not be prudent for our Legislature to empower us to agree to make a north line, extended from the northwest corner of Pensilvania to the lake Ontario our western boundary, & from thence along the northwest shore of lake Ontario & the river St. Lawrence to the bounds of Canada, & from thence along those boundaries to the State of New Hampshire. This will secure Niagara to us, and the navigation of Lake Ontario. It will put our claim out of dispute, enable Congress & us to apply our Lands to counter secure our money. In every view this matter appears impor tant to me. I wish our Legislature may see it in the same light. 2 We have already had one attack which we very fortunately warded, tho Virginia is unrepresented. The attempt convinces me of the risk we run by being too insatiable in our demands. 3
