242 November 30. 1779 [is] now before Congress which will soon be acted upon. I wish I had taken with me the number of Inhabitants in our State above the Age of sixteen & desire you would send it to me. I should also be glad to be furnished with the number of Militia which have at sundry times been called into service since the Enemy Left Boston & the Service and term of time for which the Drafts were orderd. Perhaps this may be done by the Comme for Stating Accts &c without much Trouble. For news refer you to the inclosed papers only ading that some french ships of War are in Chesapeake Bay—Destination unknown. I am Sr. with Respect yr. most Humbl Servt, G. Partridge [P.S.] Yesterday a Resolve passed ordering Officers to be chargd. no more than 50 per Cent for Clothing above the former prices. 3 RC (MiU-C: Loammi Baldwin Papers). Addressed: “Sami Freeman Esqr, Clerk to the House of Representatives, Boston.” 1 John Gill, the publisher of the Continental Journal and Weekly Advertiser (Boston). 2 Congress had taken this action on August 18, 1779. SeeJCC, 14:978; andjohnjay to George Washington, August 20, 1779, note 1. 3 Congress actually took this action on November 25 as part of a comprehensive plan to clothe the army and help Continental officers cope with inflation. JCC, 15:1304-6. For a discussion of the background of this problem, see Erna Risch, Supplying Washington's Army (Washington: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1981), pp. 296-98. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir No. 16 Philada Novr. 30th. 1779 Your favour of the 4th instant has been duly Reed. 1 And am extreamly Obliged to you for the information therein Contained— have nothing worth Your Notice to Communicate only that Genl Whipple is appointed a Commissr of the board of high Admiralty for these United States. 2 I earnestly wish your influence with him, to Accept the appointment, as it is a matter of the highest importance, Especially to the Eastern States, for that board to Consist of mem bers whose Knowledge in those matters is Equal to the important Trust that will be reposed in them. C ss have agreed to Draw Bills of Exc on Mr J—y to the amount of £100,000 Sterg and the like Sum on Mr L ns payable at 6 mo. Sight which are to be Sold at the Current Rate of Exchange for the Supply the Treasury. 3 What Effect this will have Cant Say and time only will make Known. I am Sir in hast Your most Obedt. and very huml Servt, Nathl Peabody [P.S.] As I Reed, no letters from your Quarter this Post, Suspect they were intercepted by the way.
