December 15, 1779 271 their embargoes on provisions from September 1 to the end of the year, see John Jay to Caesar Rodney, August 30, and to the States, September 14, 1779. James Lovell to Henry Laurens Dear Sir Deer. 15. 1779 Fearing yr. Son will suddenly leave this City, I am induced to take up my Pen to communicate an undecided Peice of Business, that perplexes my mind greatly. Was you here I should not feel that Perplexity an hour longer; as my Respect for your Judgement would of course give deciding Weight to whatever Opinion my critical Situa tion might draw from your Friendship, which I am sure is prompt to serve me in every honorable Way. Your Son having declined going to France, it was determined that Tomorrow a Secry. shall be chosen—no Nomination is yet made but Govr. Morris will be the man unless others are named to be in Competition. 1 I know yr. Opinion of him. I think I may say you would not rejoice at his Election; nay you woud have Fears from the measure. Honestly I had rather have suffered many Pains & Penal ties than to have this new Occasion to chuse, and a double number of them than to be chosen. Yet I am not absolutely decided against the latter. And my Reasons I mean now to explain. The 1st & greatest is of the preventive Kind, the 2d is a certain Conviction that I shall have every friendly Aid from you advisory & pecuniary, and the 3d is that you will probably succeed the Doctr. 2 in Case of that Event which makes it necessary to have a faithful Hand now near him at his advanced Age. If I am obliged to leave this City I will not do it without writing to you again on this Subject. I wish you to cover any Line you may think fit to favor me with to Mr. Peabody. Your affectionately attached humble Servant, James Lovell RC (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 23). 1 For Lovell’s explanation of the intricate maneuvering that became involved in this “Competition,” which he was not reluctant to enter personally in order to forestall the selection of Gouverneur Morris, see Lovell to Laurens, December 17; and Lovell to Richard Henry Lee, December 18, 1779. See also Nathaniel Peabody to Laurens, December 17; and Robert R. Livingston to John Jay, December 22, 1779. 2 That is, Benjamin Franklin. Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council Sir Philada. Deer. 15th. 1779 The inclosed Extracts 1 will show the present State of a Business interesting to some brave Men of Massachusetts Bay & Rhode Island
