272 December 15, 1779 who probably are returned from Cape fran^ois and stand in need of an authentic Advertizement of the mode in which they may ob tain the Property adjudged to them at Port de Paix. It is not unlikely that Boston is used for Massachusetts Bay in more Instances than that of Cyren Peek; and it appears as if some of the Names are falsely spelt: One is omitted; but the Seven can tell who the Eighth was. With much Respect, We are, Sir, Your most humble Servants, E. Gerry James Lovell Geo. Partridge S. Holten RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by Lovell and signed by Lovell, Gerry, Holten, and Partridge. Addressed: “The Honorable, The President of the Council of Massachusetts Bay. By Mr. McLane.” ' The “Extracts” were from “the Proceedings at Port de Paix relating to the Capture of an English Vessel by Eight American Sailors” in July 1779 and December 6 and 11 resolves of Congress related to the case. According to the proceedings, the eight Americans had sailed from Boston in April 1779 bound for Cape Francois but were captured and taken to Jamaica. There they enlisted as sailors on board the British-owned Greyhound, which they in turn took control of on July 12 and carried into Mole St. Nicholas, Haiti. The French Admiralty officials at Port-de-Paix awarded the ship to the Americans but withheld payment until they "might take proper Steps to authorize them to receive the proceeds.” Nearly one-half of the prize money was advanced to the Americans, but the remainder stayed in French hands. On December 6, the French minister, La Luzerne, brought the case to the attention of Congress, and on Decem ber 11 Congress approved the payment of the money in “equal shares” and directed that the letters and documents be given to the delegates from Massachusetts and Rhode Island, the sailors’ states of residence. Consequently, the Massachusetts delegates forwarded the information to the Massa chusetts Council with this letter. According to the council clerk’s endorsement, the council ordered that the extracts “be Published in Two Boston News Papers in order that the Captors of the Greyhound may be properly advised of the way in which they may Obtain the Property adjudged to them at Port de Paix.” The extracts, which are also in Lovell’s hand, are in the Revolutionary War Letters, M-Ar. SeeJCC, 15:1356, 1372; and Samuel Huntington to La Luzerne, December 8 and 11, 1779. See also Huntington to George Wattson, March 25, 1780. Philip Schuyler to James Duane Saratoga, December 16th 1779. Has just returned home from Philadelphia. “When I arrived at Congress [i.e., ca. November 16} I pressed for the sense of the house whether we should give peace to the Indians or not, and on what terms. The Committee who had been appointed on a letter of mine on that Subject were ordered to report, which was done, and Inclosed you have Copy of the resolutions as agreed to by the house. 1 An additional one was moved ‘That the Indians should be required to cede part of their Country for the benefit and behoof
