278 December 17, 1779 The Gentlemen Now in nomination to fill that important office are Mr Level by Mr Elery, Mr G. Morris by Mr. Mathews, a Lt Col Hamilton by Mr Lovel, and a Lt Col Stewart by Mr. Plater—but who will be Elected I cannot Take upon me to Determine, as I See a Storm Gathering, and the Cloven foot appears again as heretofore. Mr Lovel will Transmit the Journals of Congress published Since your departure, and Some News papers, however will Just observe, that Mr. Gibson, Mr. Trumbul, & a Mr. Foreman are appointed Commissrs at the board of Treasury. And Genl Whipple & a Mr. Wearing, of S. Carolina, and old Daddy Lewis Commissrs to the board of Adm[iralty]. A Col. Greyson a Commissr [to the] board of War. It would be needless for me to attempt mentioning anything Con cerning the Army, as Col Laurens who has so lately Come from H. Quarters will be able to give you the most Authentic Account upon that Head. A Line from you at any time I Should Esteem an Honr done me and would place it among my Choicest Treasures. I most ardently wish you Success equal to the rectitude of your Intentions. I am Honr. Sir, with the highest Consideration of Esteem Your most obedt and very Humble Servt, Nath Peabody RC (Mr. Sol Feinstone, Washington Crossing, Pa., 1979). Endorsed by Laurens: “17th Deer. 1779. Rec’d 11th Janry. Answd. 24th.” Elbridge Gerry to Benjamin Lincoln My dear sir Philadelphia the 18th Deer 1779 Since Your Departure from this place, I have been so involved in Business, & thereby so reduced in my Health, as to have been under the disagreable Necessity of giving up the pleasure of corresponding with those whom I most esteem, but I flatter myself that You will never entertain any Doubts of my warmest Friendship. By Colo Laurens, who will inform You particularly of the State of our affairs in this Quarter, I beg Leave to inclose You the latest Papers, containing some agreable Intelligence. I am now liberated from the Burthen of a Member of the Treasury; & hope my Engagements will be so far lessened as to admit a Com munication of such Occurrences, as may be interesting or agreable to You, & not officially transmitted from the Offices of Congress. I remain sir with every Sentiment of Friendship & Esteem, your most obedt. & very hum sert. E. Gerry RC (MH-H: Autograph File).
