December 18. 1779 279 Samuel Holten to Benjamin Lincoln Dear Sir. Philadelphia Deer. 18th. 1779. Colo. Laurens informs me he sits out this day to the southward, and my personal respect for you, induces me to embrace so favorable an oppertunity of writing you; tho’ we have nothing in particular here that deserves your attention, but what will be delivered you in a formal manner, or communicated by the bearer. The disordered state of our Finances, under our present circum stances is truly distressing, & calls for the greatest exertions of the good people, in paying in their Taxes and loaning their money, so that the public treasury may be supplied. I have nothing late from Boston, owing (as I suppose) to the roads being much block’d with snow. The Hon. J. Adams, & F. Dana Esqrs. sailed from Boston about four weeks since for France, being charged with important affairs from Congress, which I suppose you are acquainted with. The Chevalier de la Luzerne the new Minister, & Mr. Marbois his secy., are very agreeable Gentlemen, and appear desirous of strengthening the alliance between the two Countries, and assisting us against the common enemy. I inclose you the last public prints. I am, Sir, with great respect, your most obedient servant, S. Holten RC (MB: MS 448). Samuel Huntington to Benjamin Lincoln Sir, Philadelphia Decemr 18th 1779 You will receive herewith inclos’d a Copy of my letter of the 17th Instant to the Chevalier De la Luzerne Minister of France, and also an Act of Congress of the same date. 1 By these papers you will be informd not only of the measures Congress have taken for the defence of Charles Town and to reinforce the Army under your command, but also the designs of his Catholic Majesty against the Floridas and the inclinations of Congress in Case that Spain by the instrumentallity of the Governor of the Havannah or other ways will assist the American Arms with a Naval Force & Troops sufficient so as to regain the possession of Georgia, to cooperate with them in the reduction of East Florida. For this purpose Congress have been pleased to authorize you or the Commanding Officer for the time being to correspond & concert with the Governor of the Havannah &c such plans as shall in your opinion be best calculated to ensure the reduction of the Enemies
