280 December 18, 1779 force in the State of Georgia, and for the Conquest of East Florida; and the State of South Carolina is also requested to afford every Assistance in their power for carrying the same into effect. These Matters will by the first conveyance be communicated to -his Excellency Governor Rutledge, 2 and the greatest Secrecy the nature of the Case admits is enjoined. You will probably receive other intelligence on this Subject as soon as time will admit from the Governor of the Havannah or some other person on the part of his Catholic Majesty if the propos’d plan should take Effect. I am Sir, with much Esteem, your humble Servt. Sam. Huntington President RC (MHi: Lincoln Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See Huntington to the chevalier de La Luzerne, December 17, 1779. Actually the “Act of Congress of the same date” is one of December 16 not 17. 2 This day Huntington wrote a similar letter to South Carolina Governor John Rutledge, which contained the following additional paragraph. “You will also observe it is the Desire of Congress that the State of South Carolina may afford a supply of Rice if practicable to his Catholic Majesty’s Islands and Fleet on their request.” PCC, item 14, fols. 258-59. James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir Deer. 18th 1779 Yr Favr. of Novr. 30th 1 reached me too late on Tuesday the 14th to permit a Line in Return. I now find what you asked for and some french Vouchers intended originally for You. I add some Letters reed, last Evening. I am now to surprise you more than heretofore by telling that Thursday last being fixed upon for the Election of a Secretary to Doctr. Franklin or rather the Embassy which Lt. Col. Laurens had not accepted, the Day passed without even a Nomination. But Yesterday Mr. Mathews named G Morris who is making all Smooth to obtain it. I had intended to name Col. Hamilton. Ellery however was beforehand & put me up. I pursued my Intention & Mr. Plater named a Col Steuart of Maryland. I mentioned to Congress that I should not as some time ago desire my name to be withdrawn as I had not the Opinion of a Self denying Ordinance which I then had, and was fortified in my Change of Sentiments by the late Proceedings of Congress. I declared that my Wish was not implyd but my meer Consent if the Ballots should not happily be general for another. I am pained at my present Situation. 2 You must be free in yr. Opinion upon this Conduct, let the Event be what it may. Yrs. affectionately, James Lovell [P.S.] I shall attend very particularly to yr. Memoranda formerly sent if I should be under the necessity of leaving this City soon.
