292 December 21, 1779 If I do not go abroad, I cannot tarry here unless the State allow in some Proportion nearly resembling the Rise of Expences to me. You will be as much astonished when you come this Way as if you had not known Philadelphia last spring. The Example of 65 dollars for a pr. of Gloves that were high in Boston, at one, formerly, though Deerskins are plentier here than there may serve for a Clue to other Things. 10 & 12 Dollars for Butter is a Pretence for ruining Board. Murmur & Discontent must be the Consequence of the Taxation, for there certainly is not Currency enough circulating, for such Ratios of Demand. I will not say any Thing of the Wants of the Army at this severe Season, The Letter is bad enough already. Yr affec tionate, JL. [P.S.] Affairs of the nature of Capt. McNeilles have multiplied. Thompson & Saltonstall have made Applications, 5 but painful as the Condition of Individuals may be we have mightier Claims in too great number before us now to admit even of a prophesy when the former will be considered. We want immediately, four times more than all in the Treasury. We are dependent on the most strenuous Exertions of the States. I suspect Combinations of the speculating Kind against all our Expedients especially against that of our draw ing Bills of Exchange. As to the Point of starving the army New York alone will prevent it, if only She can be certain that the Accounts of the Supplies from different States will be put on a just Ratio. But how can she give out her Produce at 12 or 15 or even 26 prices if this and other States have 50, 60, & 70, to be liquidated by Taxes hereaf ter imposed in the Citizens of New York in full Quota. I yesterday presented yr. Compliments at the Minister’s. You have a Return in Kind. In the present Stage of Uncertainty you will be cautious of writing to me what may go into wrong hands. J.L. RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Samuel Adams’ November 23 and December 2 letters to Lovell have not been found. His December 2 letter to Lovell and Elbridge Gerry is printed under a “Deer” dateline in Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4:167-68. 2 That is, John Hancock. 3 That is, Gouverneur Morris. 4 Benjamin Franklin. 5 Former Continental Navy captains Thomas Thompson and Dudley Saltonstall, like Hector McNeill, had recently appealed their court-martial dismissals from the navy. See JCC, 15:1193, 1334.
