December 22, 1779 297 FC (NHi: Robert R. Livingston Papers). In the hand of Robert R. Livingston. 1 In a December 22 letter to Livingston, La Luzerne had objected to the Continental Army’s use of flour collected for the French navy unless Congress gave strict assur ances that it would be replaced. Livingston Papers, NHi. The issue developed from General Washington’s December 15 letter to Congress, detailing the army’s dire need for provisions and suggesting that “the only temporary resource we seem to have left, ‘till more effectual measures can be adopted, is this: to solicit a loan of four or five thousand barrels out of the quantity provided for the use of the french fleet and army. I am informed upwards of twenty thousand were collected in Maryland, all of which it is probable has not yet been exported.” Washington’s letter was read in Congress on December 20 and referred to a commit tee of James Forbes, Livingston, and Roger Sherman. It is clear from La Luzerne’s letter that the committee first consulted the French naval agent, Jean Holker, and then La Luzerne about Washington’s proposition. JCC, 15:1396; PCC, item 152, 8:247-50; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 17:272. Despite reservations, La Luzerne approved the release of several hundred barrels of flour collected for the French navy and loaded on three ships in Philadelphia harbor, on the condition that it be replaced and the French government indemnified, an arrangement he explained in a report to the comte de Vergennes of December 26, 1779. Archives du Ministfere des affaires 6trang£res: correspondance politique, Etats-Unis, 10:125. For a discussion of Maryland’s seizure during the winter of 1779-80 of flour that had been purchased in the state by agents for the French navy, see Kathryn Sullivan, Maryland and France, 1774-1789 (Philadelphia: Univeristy of Pennsylvania Press, 1936), pp. 70-76. For a meeting of Livingston’s committee with the Pennsylvania Council on Decem ber 20 in a related effort to obtain provisions from “sundry merchants” of Philadel phia during this emergency, see Pa. Council Minutes, 12:203. James Lovell to Abigail Adams Madam Deer. 22d. 1779 Your sentimental Plaints and the Effusions of yr. estimable Friend ship under Date of Nov. 20th yesterday only came to hand. I find a Sort of Novelty in my Passions at this moment my Head & Heart are brimful of respectful Affection for you and yet both admit a large measure of Pity upon the Sketch of yr. Situation under my Eye from your own Hand. The Chances are great that I shall see yr. Friend & yr. Sons before you; 1 but I shall first see you. I am sure you will compassionate Mrs. L on the Occasion, and you will approve, notwithstanding, the pre ventive motives on which I act. Gr. M s 2 was nominated. Adieu, J.L. RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 Lovell was referring to his chances of going to France as secretary to the minister plenipotentiary to France. 2 That is, Gouverneur Morris.
