300 December 23, 1779 This letter is not designed for the public Eye, but merely to shew you how sensible I am of your friendship, and in return to request the favor of a line whenever leisure and opportunity permits. I am with the most sincere esteem, Dr Sir, yours, Allen Jones Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 Jones, who had been elected October 26 for the ensuing year, first attended Congress on December 8, 1779. JCC, 15:1360-61. James Lovell to Abigail Adams Madam Deer. 23, 1779 I inclose No. 36 of the Journals and a few News Papers in Course. 1 wrote you a few Lines by the Post two days ago, 1 but hope they will not reach you before these, because I wish to caution you against dropping a single Hint of what I then suggested of seing my worthy Friend abroad. A Gentleman of excellent Character is since nomi nated 2 so that my wishes to withdraw my Name get new Strength; in such an Event any Prior Talk of going would tend to make me appear either too changeable or defeated. Madam, your affectionate, respectful Friend, James Lovell RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 Actually Lovell’s brief letter to Abigail of December 22. 2 Robert R. Livingston, who had been nominated as secretary to the minister pleni potentiary to France on December 22. See Livingston to John Jay, December 22, 1779, note 4. For Lovell’s view of Livingston’s as opposed to Gouverneur Morris’ candidacy for this post, see also Lovell to Samuel Adams, February 16, 1780. William Churchill Houston to Robert Morris Dear Sir, Philadelphia 24 Deer 1779. Yesterday I received yours of the 19th inst, and am sorry to be under the Necessity of postponing a reply to it for sheer Want of Time. Shall take the first Leisure Hour if you will please to inform me where to direct, for I suppose this is the last I shall be able to address to you at Mount Holly, the Stage not going again till next Wednesday, and your Adjournment am told is near. It gives me inexpressible Pleasure to hear that the Legislature are upon the Subject of furnishing Supplies to the Army. The Exigency is alarmingly pressing. A Plan for ascertaining the Amount, and mode of procuring, the State Supplies will contain some further Arrangements than have been transmitted as yet, 1 but am in Hopes they will not be waited for. One probably will be that the Articles be delivered at certain Places most convenient for Transportation to the Army, under the Direction of the Executive of the State and
