January 3, 1780 315 far as duty requires in any Sphere I am called to act in I am Sir with great Respect, your Obedient humb servt, Sam. Huntington RC (CtHi: Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., Papers). 1 For Trumbull’s appointment as a treasury commissioner and ultimate decision to decline the post, see Huntington tojonathan Trumbull, Jr., November 12, 1779, note 2. George Partridge to Joseph Ward Dear Sir Philadelphia Jany 3d 1780 Yours of the 7th ultimo was duely receivd, but I did not design to have answered it till I could have informed you of the Determina tion of Congress on your repeated application, but least you should misconstrue such Delay, I would inform you that I am almost weary of making fruitless motions on that Matter, 1 no wonder then you’ll say that your Patience is nearly exhausted—true—but when you consider the State of our currency, the State of our finances, and the consequent Difficulty of supplying a suffering Army, the Necessity of recruiting the Regts. & a variety of other Matters which your own Ingenuity will suggest, you will not perhaps think it so strange that it should be difficult to draw the attention of Congress to any Matter which they do not think of the greatest importance immediately to attend to, and which will take them sometime [to] adjust. However I make no doubt but that your Officers will have their Subsistance made good to them equally as Officers of the Line, and to com mence from the same time. I shall not be inattentive to the Matter, but you are sensible that I have but one voice, Sc that a feeble one. It is my sincere wish that you may have ample Justice done you & speedily, & that you may continue to serve your Country in publick character being convinced that your abilities & Disposition are hap pily united to render it important Services. I am with great Regard, your most obedt. Humbe Servt, Geo. Partridge P.S. My Colleagues tell me that they will join with me in pushing this Matter immediately. RC (ICHi: Joseph Ward Papers). Addressed: “To Colo. Joseph Ward, Commissary Genl, of Musters, Morris Town.” 1 For the final resolution of “that Matter,” which resulted in the abolition of Joseph Ward’s mustering department, see Samuel Huntington to Ward, January 14, 1780.
