320 January 5, 1780 Subject—to him therefore we beg Leave to refer & are with the highest Sence of Regard, Yr Excellencys most obt. & very hble Servts, Geo Plater James Forbes [P.S.] The Troops sailed from N York by the last Intelligence 2 are six british Regiments, the Grenadiers & light Infantry of the Army, Rawdon’s Corps—the Legion—the Queens Rangers, & Hessian Grenadiers—making about five thousand effectives. RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Plater and signed by Plater and Forbes. 1 Maj. Henry Lee’s undated letter is in Md. Archives, 43:399. 2 For this “last Intelligence,” see William Ellery to William Greene, January 4, 1780. John Mathews to Thomas Bee Dear sir, Philadelphia Jany. [5?] 1780. 1 I received yours of October 18 (intended by Mr. Rutledge) on the 30th Ulto. by Major Lucas, to whom Rutledge entrusted all his dis patches for this place, having at last given over all thoughts of being able to reach the place of his destination. The account Majr. Lucas gives me of him, is truely melancholy. I hope in God his disorder may take some favourable turn, so as he may be preserved to us, for I think his loss would be a heavy one to his Country, his family, & his friends. The present is not the time, further to discuss the matter of taxation, as I expect ’ere this reaches you, you will be warmly engaged in a business of a far different kind. It is destressing beyond expression, to hear the accounts I do from all quarters, of the disaffection, (I can call their late conduct nothing less) of our back country people. Good God! is their nothing to be done, that will tend either to perswaid, or coerce them to do their duty? Indeed My Dear Friend, the day is not to come, it does not depend on our Militia’s not turning out to repel your present danger, which may subject us to the imputation of a want of vigour, the brand is already fixed on us. In passing through No. Carolina, & Virginia, whenever I urged the necessity of their sending men to our aid, the constant reply was “how can South Carolina expect we will send our men to their support, when they will do nothing for themselves. Our men go there, sacrifice their health, their lives, & the So. Carolina Militia are snug at their own homes. It is too much for them to expect us to fight their battles for them.” Hints of the same kind, have been thrown out in Congress. Where I have princi pally appologized for our men in the first instance, in the second, I have treated such insolence, with the keeness [keenest] severity, for
