January 5, 1780 321 let us be censured by whomever may, Congress are the last class of men on earth, who ought to presume to do so. Before I had received a Copy of Rutleges instructions, I had done everything that they required, except sending some part of the Stores, & it is too late now to be done. The three frigates are I hope safe with you as is likewise the Vessel with Military Stores. The Virginia & No. Carolina lines consisted of 3000 men, but on examining into their times of serving, such as would expire before they could reach you have been detained, which reduces them to about 2300 very fine men. If they were with you, I should be under very little apprehension about the loss of the town, but as they are at this day some 500 & the rest 600 miles from you, I almost despair. The great difficulty was in getting the men on their march, for want of necessaries, particularly Shoes, without which it was impossi ble for them to encounter the inclemencies of the season. Indeed some of the men suffered very severely in coming from camp here, for want of shoes, but now that they are marched, I am confident from the disposition of the Officers, not a moments time will be lost, and if the No. Carolina Militia can but support you, so as to hold the town, you need be under no apprehension about the expiration of their times of service, for before that happens these troops will certainly be with you. Blands & Baylors two Regiments of horse, I am in hopes will not be long after Master Clinton. Had Congress done their duty on the 10 of Novr. when I applyed to them for the troops, 2 they might have been the best part of their way through No. Carolina by this, but they first refused, then hesitated, untill the rivers were shut up by the ice, so that the men must now march the whole way by land. Which misfortunes are principally owing to a want of proper spirit in them at first. I can with a safe conscience say, I have done my duty to my Country, for there is nothing which I thought could be beneficial to it, but what I have applyed for, & by unremitted Sollicitations, as far as continental circumstances would admit of, have in the end procured. If it is too late, the fault is not imputable to me, & I flatter myself my Country will do me the justice to think so, & acquit me of any want of attention to their interest. You say, you wish to hear often from me. At any other time, such a request would have afforded me infinite pleasure, which I always have felt in communicated [communicating] my thoughts to so esteemed a friend. But I am too much with you, & my whole facul ties are at present so much engroced by your destresses, that there is no space left in my mind to turn to anything that passes here. I must therefore reverse the proposition, & intreat of you to give me an account of everything that passes with you, as often as you can find leisure, & opportunity. I sent of an Express in two hours after we got the account of the sailing of the fleet from New York, & I strictly charged him to be there in sixteen days, which if he is, will give you information of it, before they can reach you. God send you success &
