January 6, 1780 323 to them & to Miss Katy, who I am informed also lives with You, but was then absent. I remain Sir with Esteem, Your Friend & very hum Sert. E. Gerry RC (NjP: DeCoppet Collection). Addressed: “William Hunt Esqr. at Watertown.” 1 William Hunt (1749-1804), Watertown, Mass., lawyer and local official, conducted a business supplying the army during the war. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 17:46-48. 2 No memorial from Hunt pertaining to his accounts with former Commissary General Joseph Trumbull has been found in PCC. Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia Jany 6th 1780 I am honoured with your Excellency’s two letters of the 13th ulto with the papers to which they refer. 1 Agreable to your Excellency’s request I have caused one of the lists of the Bonds transmitted to be endorsed which is herewith enclosed. I have the honour to forward by Brown two dozen blank Commis sions with Instructions and Bonds. By late letters I have received from Amsterdam it is abundantly evident that your Excellency’s Correspondence as also that of Gover nor Livingston with Baron V.D. Capelen hath enlighten’d & unde ceived many people in Holland, & produced many Friends & favoura ble sentiments with respect to the cause in which we are engaged. 2 I hope Congress will take some honourary Notice of the Baron. I am told N. Jersey have Just passed a law appointing proper persons to purchase all articles of provision & forage for the army which that State can supply. I was in hopes to procure the act & send it forward by Brown. I believe a regulation of that kind will be generally adopted & cannot but hope it may be attended with benefi cial consequences to the public. I have directed Mr Brown if he can obtain the above mentioned act in the Jersey’s to take it with him. 3 I am favour’d with intelligence on which we place dependance that the late embarkation from N. York on the 23d & 26th ulto had Troops on board to the amount of 5,000 Effective Men their destina tion unknown & no intelligence has been received of them since they sailed. I have the honour to be, with the greatest respect, your Excy’s hble & Servt, Sam. Huntington P.S. The papers formerly Sent to Mr Laurens were deliverd to a Committee of which he was one; 4 I called on him for them before his departure, he deliverd me some of them; The whole I have not been able to Collect, but Shall continue my Search, & if I can recover them will do my Self the honour to forward them immediately to your Excellency. Mr Laurens told me he met with great difficulty to get
