324 January 6, 1780 them Translated: few persons here understand the low Dutch, your last Letter from the Baron, I procured a Dutch Clergeman about Eight miles from this City to Translate. He appears perfect master of the Dutch language but does not write English Elegantly tho, I believe gives the litteral Sense with exactness. I am ut Supra. S.H. RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 One of these letters—endorsed “No 12. 13th December, 1779. To President Huntington, de my letters to Mr Laurens and general limitation of prices,’’—is in Trumbull, Papers (MHS Colls.), 2:458-60. 2 For Trumbull’s correspondence with baron Joan Derk van der Capellen, see these Letters, 13:561n.l. 3 Apparently the act he sent with his letter to Trumbull of January 17. 4 For the “papers formerly Sent to Mr Laurens,” see Henry Laurens to Trumbull, October 19, 1779, note 1. James Lovell to Abigail Adams Jan. 6. 1780. You will see, lovely Woman, by the Papers which I have sent that we shall have more post-Advantages of Communication than we have had for some time back; 1 but I fear this Remark will tend to my Disadvantage, and if it was not for (Economy I would throw by the present Sheet and take up another in which I would only tell you that I regard, esteem and respect you and will certainly write to you as often as I possibly can. But since I have hinted at increasing Opportunities of Conveyance, I must assure you that the days are too short for me at present by much to get pressing public Business off my Hands; and as to the Nights they are ten times more ruinous to my health than they were in Summer, I therefore hide myself from them within the Bed Curtains the Moment that public duty is discharged. In Truth, I am at length aiming to preserve some Rem nant of a good Constitution for Situations into which you seem to think you would chide me if you was invested with those Rights of Chiding which a Church Parson’s Certificate is presumed to have conveyed to another. You may thus perceive that yr. Letter of Deer. 13 is before me. It was within two Minutes brought from the Office with Information that the Post sets out at 2 p.m. I ought now to be in Congress, but must scratch a Line or two for Boston. Our Affairs are unpleasant in many Views, but not ruined. Every Patriot ought to be allarmed and then all will be safe. I think with Tristram about the Currency, now we have done with the Paper Mill and Press. It seems as if the Signature alone will not make Portia reject the Piece. Yorick, Sterne and Tristram are bearable but Shandy is a wicked Creature. 2
