January 7, 1780 325 Let me again mention to you to mind the pages of 1778 that if I have sent doubles you may return the 2d, or if I omit, you may demand a single Sheet of the Journals. Thank Mr. Cranch for his kind Compliments left for me with Mrs. L. 1 wish him and his every Felicity. I cannot consent so to stint my heartwarm extensive Vows for you— as to pass the Compliments of the Season from my Pen, and thereby risk a Supposition that I had done all which my Affections suggest at the Instant of subscribing myself—your Friend & h. Servt., JL RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 3:256-57. 1 Congress had voted on December 27, 1779, to have two regular post deliveries each week from Boston to Philadelphia. JCC, 15:1411. 2 For Abigail’s February 13 response to these allusions to Laurence Sterne and his literary characters, see Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 3:273-74n.l. Roger Sherman to Andrew Adams Sir Philadelphia January 7th. 1780 1 Obtain’d last Evening an Account of the prices of the Several Articles, as Stated by the late law of the State of New Jersy which, is to be in force the first of Next month which I have Enclosed. 1 I am informed the law is Absolutely to take effect at the time fixed, with out any proviso in case the other States do not make Similar Laws. The State of Maryland has likewise passed a Law for the regulation of prices. New York Assembly is called on purpose to consider of the Matter. The Commissioners from Several of the States that were present Met last Evening pursuant to the recommendation of the Hartford Convention, viz two from New Hamshire, two from Connecticut, one from New Jersy, And one for Pennsylvania. Mr. L Homedieu was also present from the State of New York but he Says their Assembly made no Special appointment for this convention, & Supposes he has no right to Act/ I dont hear that any other States have appointed Members. 1 believe they expected that the resolution of Congress would Super sede the necessity of this convention. So that I dont think it will be of any advantage for the Assembly to wait, in expectation of having a report from this Convention for I believe there will be None. Mr. Bryan informed us that a great majority of the Assembly of this State were in favour of a regulation of prices before they Adjourned. They meet again the 19th of this month. I Should think Since the Press is Stopt it would not be difficult to reduce prices as low as twenty for one, Some people are much afraid the Money will Soon Appreciate very rapidly, and be attended with more pernicious effects than the depreciation has been. It appears to me that it is of
