January 12, 1780 337 Samuel Huntington to Certain States Sir, Philada. Jany 12. 1780 You will receive herewith enclos’d an Act of Congress of this day together with Extracts of three Letters to which the Act refers. 1 These I am directed to lay before the Legislature of Connecticut or in their Reccess before your Excellency in Council, as also the other States therein mentioned, and to urge in the most pressing manner that Immediate supplies of provision be by those several States sent to the army. After the facts stated in the papers enclos’d perswasion & importu nity seems unnecessary. The Army must soon disband unless sup plied with provisions, That cannot be obtained [at the present Con junction of Affairs] 2 without the Aid of the several States now called upon. The Country abounds with the necessary Rescources, but private gain seems the only Object of too many Individuals without any Concern for the public safety. Congress have taken proper Measures to have Justice done those States that shall aford present supplies. The Exertions of N. Jersey are already called forth on the occasion. Must it be said that our Army disbanded for want of provisions in the midst of plenty? Since the resignation of Commissary Wadsworth the Aid of the States is absolutely necessary to afford Supplies until such time as Matters are put in a proper Train which I trust will not be long. 3 I have the honour to be &c, S.H. President LB (PCC, item 14). Addressed: “His Excellency The Governor of Connecticut. N.B. The same to New York, Pennsylvania, & Delaware.” 1 For this resolve, and the three letters from Washington, Gen. William Irvine, and assistant commissary Royal Flint, see JCC, 16:46; PCC, item 152, 8:321-30; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 17:355-58. 2 Although this passage does not appear in the LB, it is found in the letters that Huntington actually sent. His letter to Gov. George Clinton of New York is in the Clinton Papers, N; his letter to Pres. Joseph Reed of Pennsylvania is at the Omaha Public Library. 3 For the January 15 response of the Pennsylvania Council to this appeal, see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 8:87; and Pa. Council Minutes, 12:227. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir Philadelphia January 12, 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith an Act of Congress of the 8th instant, making further provision for the paying for horses killed in Battle and for reforming the Georgia Battailions &C. 1 Your Excellencys favour by Col. Magaw have this moment receivd & Shall call the Attention of Congress to the Subject to which it
