January 17, 1780 347 The general course of British-American prisoner negotiations has been treated by Larry G. Bowman, “The New Jersey Prisoner Exchange Conferences, 1778-1780,” New Jersey History 97 (Autumn 1979): 149-58. As Lt. Col. Alexander Hamilton was one of the commissioners appointed by Washington to negotiate a cartel at Perth Amboy in March, many of the documents pertinent to the conduct of those negotia tions can be found in Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 2:271-85, 287-92, 295-301. 3 That is, Cols. Robert Magaw, George Mathews, and John Ely and Lt. Col. Nathan iel Ramsey, the four officers paroled by the British to prod the Americans into reopening prisoner exchange negotiations. Samuel Holten’s Diary [January 15, 1780] 15. Saturday. Congress agreed upon a number of resolutions for establishing a Court of appeals, of members out of Congress. 1 No new intelligence. MS (MDaAr). 1 After lengthy deliberations, Congress this day passed resolves establising a court “for the trial of all appeals from the courts of admiralty in these United States, in cases of capture, to consist of three judges, appointed and commissioned by Congress.” Congress had heard appeals from the state courts of admiralty through the stand ing Committee on Appeals, but the system had experienced difficulties with questions of jurisdiction and venue, and it made great demands on the time of the delegates to Congress who made up the committee. Congress therefore attempted to overcome these defects by transforming the committee into a circuit court authorized to hear “all appeals,” appointing judges who were not members of Congress and urging the states to pass laws authorizing the new court to carry its final decrees “into full and speedy execution.” JCC, 16:61-64. For further information on the creation of the Court of Appeals, see these Letters, 10:624n; and HenryJ. Bourguignon, The First Federal Court: The Federal Appellate Prize Court of the American Revolution, 1775-1787, Memoirs of the American Philosophical Society 122 (1977): 114-18. Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia January 17th. 1780 I do my Self the honour to Transmit your Excellency an Act of the state of New Jersey for procuring provisions for the Use of the Army &c.‘ I am under the disagreable necessity of Requesting that two thou sand dollars may be advanced to me or my order out of the public Treasury for which I will be Accountable, the profits of my own Estate which under my care with my own Industry used to afford me all necessary Supplies, hath been so long Neglected by me that I am unable to discharge the necessary Expenses incured, and in my pres ent Situation I am unwill[ing] to request any Advancement from the Continental Treasury, which would be rather out of Character.
