352 January 20, 1780 Samuel Huntington to William Livingston and Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia January 20th 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclos’d an Act of Congress of this day together with an Extract of Intelligence, therein refer’d to; which I am directed to lay before your Excellency in order that the most effectual measures may be taken to prevent such nefarious practices of supplying the Enemy with provisions. 1 I have the honour to be, with every sentiment of respect, your Excy’s hble Servt. Sam. Huntington President RC (NN: Livingston Papers; Ct: Trumbull Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 JCC, 16:74. The enclosed “Extract of Intelligence” (“relative to supplies sent to the enemy from New Jersey and Connecticut”), was taken from a recent report of Washington’s “confidential Correspondent in New York,” which the general had sent to Congress with a letter ofjanuary 18. See PCC, item 152, 8:343-46; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 17:406-7. Samuel Huntington to the Massachusetts Council Sir, Philadelphia Jany 20.1780 You will receive herewith enclosd an Act of Congress of the 17 Instant with the Copy of a Letter from General Washington of the 17 of Decemr & report from the Board of War referr’d to in the Act: By which you will be inform’d that the Case of Monsr la Motte therein mentioned, The Expediency of continuing him in his pres ent employment is referr’d to the Honble Council of Massachusets Bay who are requested to adjust & settle his Accounts at Continental Expence and if they deem his continuance unnecessary to discharge him from any further service. 1 You will also please to observe The Board of War have advanced him three thousand dollars on Account of his pay. I am Sir, with great respect, your hble Servt, Sam. Huntington President RC (M Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. Addressed: “The President of the Council of the Massachusets Bay.” 1 In his December 17 recommendation of the Rev. Hyacinthe de La Motte, Washing ton had suggested that because of his French background and missionary work among the Indians of the eastern department, La Motte might be usefully employed to “gain intelligence of the enemy,” but cautioned that if he should be inclined to work for the enemy (as Col. John Allan had charged), the effects of employing him might be “mischievous.” The recommendation had been referred to the Board of War, which on December 31 advised against employing La Motte, but because any mission he
