January 21, 1780 357 Depreciation of Money, so that the Treasury was almost exhausted, the purchasers greatly in debt and out of Credit, before any Money could be procured from the States for Taxes. Bills on Spain and Holland are now issued, some of which will be sent to our State. This will give a Temporary relief. Maryland & Delaware being called on have procured a considerable Quantity of Flower, but except the prices can by some means be reduced, or Our Money fixed at some certain Rate I fear it will be with the greatest Difficulty that Supplies for the Army can be procured for the next Campaign. It is under Consideration to call on the several States for to furnish equal Quo tas of Produce & other Necessaries for the Army & support of the war at certain prices to be credited to each State & to be paid for by them out of their Taxes. I am informed that Mr Shearman & some other Eastern Delegates have received information from the New Hampshire Grants [that] they are determined not to submit to the Decision [of Con]gress, their Claim to Independance; but have [named] Agents to send to Congress, with offers to confederate with the United States, or such of them as are willing to confederate with Vermont. 1 I have great reason to believe that great pains will be taken by some of the States (perhaps not openly) to put of[f] the Tryal & prevent any Determination respecting those Lands at present. They are continually strengthening themselves in the Eastern States by selling Lands but I trust Congress will see the necessity of immedi ately hearing and determining a Controversy of so great Importance as well to the United States as to New York. I am Sr with great Respect, Your Obed Servt, Ezra L'Hommedieu Tr (DLC: George and James Clinton Papers). 1 For the arrival of “Agents” from the New Hampshire Grants and their reception in Philadelphia, see James Lovell to Samuel Adams, February 1, 1780, note. James Lovell to Abigail Adams My dear Madam, Jany. 21st. 1780 We have Letters from France to the Middle of Sept, only—none from Doctr. Franklin—nor any Thing material in those that we have seen. Mr. Dobree the Son in Law of Mr. Schweighauser having been traduced, I wrote to the old Gentleman that I should be attentive to produce Counterparts to any Insinuations here to the Prejudice of the Young Man; 1 finding now many private Letters from that Com pany without any one for me, I took the Freedom to open that directed to my worthy Friend yr Husband supposing there might be confidential Communications to him on that particular Subject. I was n istaken—but no Harm is the Consequence. I convey the Letter
