358 January 21, 1780 to you, with a News paper; and beg a Return of one hundredth Part of the Affection with which I constantly subscribe myself your Friend. JL RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 Lovell’s letter has not been found, but for further information on the charges against Peter F. Dobr6e alluded to here, see these Letters, 13:369n.3. James Lovell to Samuel Adams Jan. 21.1779 [i.e„ 1780] We have nothing material from Europe. A Lee writes to me in great haste Sepr. 11th acknowledging mine of 16 & 17 July, and inclosing a Letter to Congress requesting Copies of the Paca-Drayton & Carmichael Informations. 1 We had not a Line from Doctr. Franklin. The Vessel bringing the Letters was sent, I suppose, by Gillon of Sth. Carolina, because almost all the Letters were for that State, tho the Leaden-Mass was directed to Congress. I have before said that I am astonished not a Line comes from you respecting either Vermont or the regulating Convention now sitting here. It is not less surprizing that we have only a Certificate of Election without any Reference to former Instructions. 2 You know that in the Cases of Georgia & North Carolina it was Determined that the Appointment of several Delegates to represent a State, with out any specified No. for a Vote supposed Each one competent. New York demands that Priviledge. Virginia is now represented by one. And I believe every State must oeconomize, The Expence having become intollerable! I was vexed at ours and made Enquiry of Col. Floyd who is at Mrs. House’s but I was far from bettering myself. He is charged forty times 40s for himself & 40 times 20s for his Servant and finds him self with every Thing but Bread, Meat & Lodging. Wood alone is an Estate. The Minister of France is incessant in his Invitations to dine in short weekly periodical. We have never invited him but once for which I dare say we shall have pd. 1000—600 of it & more being for the bare Dinner. We must either totally refuse his Invitations or be seemingly his Table Pensioners—or go into at least monthly Expence. This on a public Score. But what is to become of me on a private? I have been drawn on from one Fright of Prices to another till total Shabiness has come upon me. Indeed it is a Wonder I hang together, having bought one Suit & one Hat in 3 years. This latter hessian le haut being gone beyond Decency I am asked 400 Dollars. 300 for a pr. of Leather Breeches—125 for Shoes—a Suit of Cloaths 1600—that is not 16 pr. of shoes but it is enough to stance my Children unless the State have raised the Allowance for Time & Service to some nearer Proportion to the Expences which they pay for my Sub-
