January 21, 1780 359 sistance here—or consider my decent Cloaths in the Line of my Charge of Expenditures. Thus I have plagued you as 3 RC (NN: Adams Papers). In Lovell’s hand, though signature is missing. 1 Arthur Lee’s September 11, 1779, letter to Lovell has not been found, but his September 10 letter to Congress was read on January 19 and assigned to the Commit tee for Foreign Affairs “that they take order thereon.” He had requested copies of the “intelligence & information concerning me” that “Mr. Paca, Mr. W.H. Drayton, and Mr. Carmichael have been permitted to lay before you.” See JCC, \fr.T2', PCC, item 83, 2:284-87; Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:313; and these Letters, 12:410-11. 2 The Massachusetts delegates’ certificate of election had been presented to Con gress on January l.JCC, 16:2. 3 Remainder of RC is missing. James Lovell to Samuel Adams Dear Sir 21 Jany. 80 Please to deliver or order to be deliver’d the inclosed two Letters from France, and forward to Mrs. Adams mine with the news Paper. I have written to you this Day by post, and hope for an Answer somewhat particular to the Contents of it. We have nothing material from France to Sepr. 25th. A Lee was at Paris the 10th of that month 1 and had got the Journals of Congress to the 12th of June with my private Letters to July 17th. We are, as usual, mightily divided on Elections. The 3 Judges of Appeals are to come from 10 or 12 Nominations. 2 Schuyler and Pickering are chosen for the reforming Comtee., the first as the Member of Congress. 3 Mifflin, Bull & Bodinot divide us; the Rea sons given for not chusing the first, with all his Knowledge & Spirit, are from Devotees to Fabius, 4 who every now & then, by tbeir Behav ior & Arguments appear to think him a most malignant & revenge ful Genius. Tace. Paca, Duane, Bodinot, Hosmer, McKean, Lowell, RT Payne, Sullivan, Wythe are in nomn. for Judges. Huntingdon, Gerrey & Livingston wd. have their Names withdrawn. 5 I would not risque Coll. R H Lee in the present Temper of the House, though I think him extremely well calculated. 6 But, in the Course of Speakg the day before yesterday on Arthur’s Request to have Copies of certain Papers, I found a number of Virulentissimses still cocked & primed at the very Name of Lee. I suppose I have told you that the Genl, of that Name is informed we have no need of his Services. 7 I have other Business than the Duties of Friendship to attend, therefore Adieu, J.L. RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 See preceding document, note 1.
