368 January 24, 1780 ing commissioners should “proceed in the business committed to them,” in consulta tion with a newly appointed congressional committee consisting of Schuyler, Allen Jones, and Roger Sherman, but little was accomplished beyond the formulation of an elaborate plan to reform the departments that was submitted to Congress on March 27. And not until new dire warnings were received from Washington and Quarter master General Greene did the delegates overcome their reluctance to empower a regular committee of Congress to undertake a mission to headquarters and deal forcefully with the ills besetting the army. SeeJCC, 16:244, 293-311,332-33, 354-57; Huntington to Mifflin and Pickering, March 11; and Congress’ Instructions to the Committee at Headquarters, April 6-13, 1780. 2 President Huntington also sent Col. Timothy Pickering a copy of this letter to Mifflin with the following note, dated January 25. “The Letter address’d to General Mifflin which you will receive with this, contains the Acts of Congress the same as the enclos’d. I desire the letters may be sent to him without delay. I have requested him to repair to Philadelphia as soon as may be to act in Conjuntion with yourself. Have also wrote to Genl. Schuyler & enclosed to him Copies of the same acts of Congress, & desired him to repair to Head Quarters without loss of time, and in the Interim to give previous notice of the Time he will be at Head Quarters that the other Commissioners may meet him there.” PCC, item 14, fols. 284-85. Samuel Huntington to Philip Schuyler Sir, Philada Jany 24, 1780 You will receive herewith enclos’d an act of Congress of the 20 Instant together with two other Acts of the 14 & 17 of Decemr. last to which the former refers. By these you will be informed that yourself with Colo Pickering & Genl Mifflin are appointed Commissioners for the important & nec essary service mentioned in the Act of the 20th Instant. As a member of Congress you are appointed to this Service and I am to request you to repair to Head Quarters with as much despatch as Circumstances will possibly admit. 1 If you will please to inform me by a letter previous to your setting out what time you expect to be at Head Quarters the other Commissioners shall be duly notified so as to meet you there. From a Consideration of the necessity & importance of the service to which you are appointed the difficulty of finding suitable Gentle men of Experience & ability to perform the same, and as a Member of Congress you are called upon for that purpose. I flatter myself you will lay aside every lesser Consideration and without hesitation or delay afford your Country the Benefit of your Aid & Assistance in the service requested. I have the honour to be &c &c, S. H. Pt LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 It was precisely because he was a member of Congress that Schuyler ultimately declined the appointment herewith offered. His reasons for doing so obviously left him uncomfortable, however, for he felt compelled to explain himself several times to Congress, to Washington, and to friends, and the fine distinctions he drew in the
