January 25, 1780 369 process apparently seemed unconvincing to many delegates. Upon receiving Hunt ington’s letter at Albany, he hinted on February 15 that he could not accept the post but offered little in the way of outright explanation except to state that he would set off at once for Philadelphia to explain in person. PCC, item 153, 3:511-13. On the same day he also unburdened himself to his friend Robert R. Livingston, and in the process probably penned the most direct statement he made on the subject when he wrote that under this appointment he would be acting not “as a member of Congress but as a Commissioner associated with other Commissioners, and Consequently as a Servant of Congress.” Robert R. Livingston Papers, NHi. For his formal explanation to Congress soon after his arrival in Philadelphia, see Schuyler to Huntington, March 6, 1780. For evidence that he was never able to commit a complete explanation of the matter to paper, see also his letters to Washington of March 7 and 13; and Schuyler to Jacob Cuyler, March 11, 1780. Oliver Ellsworth to Samuel Lyman Dear Sir, 1 Philada. Jany. 25. 1780. Congress have lately reed, a packet from France with dispatches down to the 9th Septr—but they contain no very material Intelli gence more than you will pick out from the enclosed papers. The Convention for a Limitation of prices being attended only from N Hampshire, Connecticut, N Jersey, Pensylvania, Delaware & Maryland did not think proper to proceed on buisness especially as a resolution of Congress passd. since their being called recommend ing a Limitation of prices seemed to have decided on the Expedi ency & necessity of the measure. They accordingly adjourned with out day. 2 Despair not however of the currency’s receiving a fixedness 8c Justice being done. In my next I will write you more particular on this Subject. The Army are again comfortably supplied. I wish to hear what is done or doing at our assembly—8c any thing else you will please to inform me of. And am Sr. yr. huml Sevt. O Ellsworth RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). Addressed: “Samuel Lyman Esquire, Hartford, Connecti cut.” 1 Lyman is identified in these Letters, 3:192n.l. 2 For the reconvening and proceedings of this convention, see Ellsworth to Jona than Trumbull, Sr., January 30, and February 8, 1779. Oliver Ellsworth to Thomas Mumford Dear sir, Philada. Jany. 25. 1780. I thank you for your Letter of the It of Instt. reed, yesterday—8c the order you have been pleased to give Mr Breed to deliver me a Barrel of Sugar, which I shall avail my self of with proper sentiments
