370 January 25, 1780 of your disposition to oblige me & wish you to direct the Post to call on Mrs. Ellsworth & receive such pay therefor as you shall name to do your self justice. Congress have no very special intelligence from Europe of late; all things however on that side the water continue to look favourable & flattering to American Independance. It is doubtless in Europe a winter of negotiation & I shall be as happy as you should the result be an honorable peace to America in the Spring. As to a foreign Loan Congress have good reason to expect that a small one at least will be negotiated in Holland if not in Spain by the persons they have appointed & authorised thereto. Which if obtained I think it more probable that the money will be funded there & bills drawn thereon rather than that much if any of it will be imported in specie—but this is my own conjecture. A few Bills are now offered by Congress for Sale at 25 dollrs. for 4/6 Sterlg. an equal sum to the purchase money to be at the same lent the Continent on loan office certificates. The Bills I have no doubt will be honored, tho’ I confess I do not like the terms of sale. If you incline to purchase you may doubtless soon be supplied at the Treasury office in Hartford. French Bills here are at 30 for 1 in dollars—& hard money at 38. Measures are in contemplation which may perhaps fix the medium. The general talk this way on the Subject within doors & without is “do ample justice to the holders of the Bills & certificates as far as the nature of the case will admit.” If hereafter it shall at any time be in my power to give you any useful or important information, duty & inclination will prompt me to it. I have not yet had the pleasure of seing Capt. Saltonstal whome you are pleased to name to me; but had other motives sufficient if you had added none to interest me particulary in wishing him a fair & impartial enquiry & I doubt not of his having it. The Convention that was proposed to be held at this Place on the subject of a Limitation of prices, being attended only from N. Hampshire, Connecticut, N Jersey, Pensylvania, Delaware & Mary land—they did not think proper to proceed to business. There is very little probability now I think of such a measures taking place & am led to hope that the strenuous exertions of the States in taxes which they seem well disposed to, in conjunction with other regula tions that may take place will in a great measure superceed the necessity of it. You will be pleased to know that greater Unanimity has at no time prevailed in Congress & that the embarrasments you will easily con ceive must attend them, does but strenthen their reliance on the exertions of America, & that good providence that has conducted us thus far. I am, with sentiments of much Esteem & respect, Dear sir, Your very obedt. & huml Servt, Oliv Ellsworth
