January 25, 1780 RC (Robert J. Sudderth, Jr., Lookout Mountain, Tenn., 1973). 371 Elbridge Gerry to James Warren My dear sir, Philadelphia Jany 25 1780 It is a long Time since We have heard from our Friends eastward, & We impute it to the Severity of the Winter, but yesterday I received by the Post your agreable Favour of the 27th Deer., the Desire of which was increased by the Detention. I should have been glad to have seen your Remarks on the anony mous Letter, but Mr Lovell informs me, he has not yet received them. 1 The Policy of America will succeed or fail in my Opinion, in pro portion to her Exertions for establishing a Navy. I well remember that You was the first to promote it, & altho it was disapproved by some in Point of Time, the Benefit derived from the Measure has clearly manifested the Wisdom of it. The State of our Finances will check it’s present Growth, but I doubt not that it will soon flourish, & that Time will suggest Improvements in the Arrangements & Regu lations of the Boards that are appointed to cherish & conduct it. I am very sensible that the officers of these Departments have been poorly rewarded, & was lately of a Committee who reported that their present Salaries should have a Retrospect to Novr. 1778, but the Subject is not yet considered by Congress. I think however that You have their fullest Confidence. Congress have not yet determined whether to remove eastward or southward; both are talked of, but your Remarks respecting the Navy are conclusive in my Mind, in Favour of the former. The great objects of Attention in Congress are (Economy & Resources. Necessity dictates their Measures, & I hope will produce salutary Effects. The Departments of the Muster & Barrack Masters are abolished & the Business of the former annexed to the Office of Inspectors. Generals Schuyler & Mifflin & Colo Pickering are appointed a Committee with full Powers to inform themselves by Inspection or otherwise of the State of the Staff Departments, to call in any of the Officers thereof for Information, to discharge all per sons therein that are supernumerary or delinquent, to break up unnecessary issuing Posts, & establish others were requisite, to stop all Issues of Rations not indispensibly necessary for the Service, & in Conjunction with General Washington to reduce the Number of Horses & Waggons in the Service & Expence of Transportation, & to adopt a general Reformation of the Departments. The States are to be also called on for their respective quotas of Supplies, & author ized to stop all purchases by continental officers, when Measures are adopted for complying with the Requisitions of Congress; & to induce the States to purchase cheap they are to be credited equal prices for
