376 January 27, 1780 ested in the event of this controversy for the readyness with which you offer to sacrifice yr. private feelings to the general interest. I have sounded many members about it. Some I find extreamly well disposed to the measure while others again receive it with more coolness rather on account of the novelty of the Institution than from any other motives tho’ perhaps the dismissal of Gen Lee which makes the rank you claim the more important may have some influ ence on their minds. But this last consideration is so much less weighty than the first, that I am persuaded if you would accept Greens place 2 which he wishes to [qu]it that you may have it on your own terms. What I would particularly mention to you is my [earn]est wish that you will comply with the request contained in the resolutions of Congress transmitted to you [by] the President, 3 they apply to you as a member of Congress who are capable of extricating your country from the ruin that threatens it. Should you suffer any personal considerations to interpose or prevent your affording the assistance they request when you act not as their servant but as one of their body, You will offer room to your enimies to alledge that private convenience more than publick reasons have influenced your past conduct. Your Friends will be disappointed & hurt, And a measure which they have so much at heart (to which [they] consider this as preparatory) be entirely defeated. Let me therefore intreat you not only to accept the commission but to do it immediately & without reluctance. The publick requires it of you. And shd. your endeav ours be crowned with success which they can not fail in some sort to be you will acquire more reputation than you or any other person could possibly attain in any other station or upon any other occasion. I can not enlarge (as I fear I have already missed the post) but just so far as to tell you that we have not yet determined where to move to, that question being put off to the 1st of February. 4 Our Affairs are as much deranged as ever, our finance far from being restored— and our army living from hand to mouth. When we shall get thro’ these perplexities I know not. I shall however contribute my mite tho’ not I fear [with] the fairest prospect of success. The fleet which left New York last Month has not yet been heard of. The Cold continues so intense that the Chesapeak bay is froze over. We have a report that St. Augustine & Pensacola are taken by the Spaniards & that Genl. Prevost has left Savannah. It comes by letter from Virginia to Griffin, but as we have yet had no truth from that quarter I doubt the authenticity of this. My best respects attend Mrs. Schuyler and the young ladies. I am Dear Sir, With the greatest esteem, Your Most Obdt Hum. Servt, Robt R Livingston RC (NN: Philip Schuyler Papers). 1 Schuyler had written to Livingston on both December 18, 1779, and January 18, 1780, and both letters discussed issues alluded to by Livingston in this letter. They are in the Robert R. Livingston Papers, NN. See also Livingston to Schuyler, December 20, 1779, note 3.
