382 January 30, 1780 gress from N. York attended, tho’ not specially authorised & gave assurance that their State would abide the measures that might be come into. The Convention having again formed now stands adjourned to Wednesday next, for N Jersey Commissioners who are sent to, to come in—the result of which meeting will perhaps be a further adjournment to a distant day to give Virginia, who has not yet done it, oppertunity to appoint & send commissioners. It does not appear indeed what more can well be done at this time as some of the Commissioners present are not authorised to do any thing unless the Convention should be attended from all the States first proposed. In return for Lord Sterlings late Expedition to Staten Island, a party of the Enemy consisting of one hundred horse & four hun dred foot, last week surprised the out guards at Elizabeth Town & Newark & made four officers & about Sixty men prisoners, & burned some publick buildings at both places. The supplies & prospects of the Army are now comfortable. The General was reduced to the necessity of demanding from the Several Counties in N Jersey specifeck supplies, which with much spirit they complyed with even beyond the requisition. Maryland is said also to have fully complyed with the requisition of Congress to that State for 15,000 barrels of Flour. Delaware has also exerted herself much, in the same way. The Assembly of this State are now together & seem disposed to furnish the 50,000 barrels of Flour requested of them as also to go into such further specifick supplies as may be necessary. 5 South Carolina, justly apprehensive of her danger, is arming three Regiments of blacks. It is highly probable, unless the Embarkation from New York should have blown to the West Indies or suffered much in the Storm, that we shall soon hear of an Attack on Charlestown—tho’ I trust there will be a defence sufficient at least to render it a serious one. The Town scituated on a Neck less than one mile across & not commanded by heights is defensible & well forti fied on the land side—the entrance of the Harbour being very nar row is secured by a number of Frigates, which are the largest Ships that can come over the bar without taking out their Guns. Continen tal troops and Militia are now marching southward but may not arive in season for the Enemy’s first attempts. That policy which has long since directed the Enemy to carry their operations & efforts southward seems now to be attending to & there is much reason to expect that the active part of the next campaign will be in that quarter. I take the liberty to mention to your Excellency that the Scituation of my affairs renders it necessary for me to return home by the begining of March, & to express my wishes that some of the Gentle men on the new election may find it convenient to take their Seats in Congress by that time.
