384 February 1, 1780 Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia February 1, 1780 I am honour’d with your Excellency’s favours of the 26, 27, & 29 ulto. which have been laid before Congress. 1 Enclosed you will receive an Act of Congress of the 31 Ulto 2 (a Copy of which is transmitted to Governor Livingston) Expressing the high sense they entertain of the attachment and Zeal of the Magistrates and Inhabitants of the State of New Jersey in the Common Cause and their ready and effectual Exertions in furnishing provision for the Army under your Excellencies Command. I have the honour to be, with the highest respect, your Excelly’s hble Servt, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Huntington is actually acknowledging two letters from Washington of January 26 and two of January 27, all of which had been laid before Congress the previous day. JCC, 16:111. The letter of the 29th is apparently one directed to Elbridge Gerry, who had been corresponding with the general on the subject of recruitment for the Conti nental Army. See PCC, item 152,8:333-35,371 - 81; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 17:443-47, 449-52, 462-64; and Elbridge Gerry to Washington, January 12, 1780. 2 See the preceding entry. James Lovell to Samuel Adams Feb. 1st. —80 Not a Line of Information from you respecting the Vermont Business. Certain Men are here from the Grants to support its Inde pendence and offer to come into the Union but not to submit the Question of their Existence as an independent State. 1 J.L. RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 This day Stephen Bradley, Jonas Fay, and Moses Robinson laid before Congress a copy of their credentials as agents of the “free and independent State” of Vermont, together with “a vindication” of their territorial claim to the “Grants” region being contested by New Hampshire, New York, and Massachusetts, and “Vermonts appeal to the candid and impartial World,” a publication explaining Vermont’s claims and readiness to form “an equitable Union with the other independent States of America.” The significance of their appearance this day was that February 1 had been set as the date for reopening congressional hearings on the claims to the region by New Hampshire, New York, and Massachusetts, whose legislatures had been asked the preceding September “to pass laws expressly authorizing Congress to hear and deter mine all differences between them relative to their respective boundaries.” None of the three was prepared to proceed with such hearings at this time, however, although the delegates of each expressed alarm at Vermont’s pretentions to independent state hood and remained firmly resolved to have the issue treated simply as a dispute between existing states of the union, out of which no new states could be created without their consent. Congress’ task was even further complicated by the appearance on February 7 of agents representing “towns in the northern district of the New Hampshire Grants, on
