February 7, 1780 391 parts and as far Southward as I have heard is greater than hath been known these forty Years. I have the honour to be, with every sentiment of respect, your Excellency’s hble Servt, Sam. Huntington Feby 8 Another Express is Just arrived from Genl Lincoln. The following is an Extract from the Generals Letter dated Charles Town S. Carolina, Decemr 22, 1779. 3 “Before this reaches you, you will doubtless hear that the Spaniards have been up the river Mississippi and possessed themselves of the English Settlements on that River and that they made nine hundred prisoners, That about the Beginning of this month they [left] Havannah with a Respectable Fleet with Troops for Pensacola or Augustine,[. . . .]” Yours ut supra, S. Huntington RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See Huntington to William Livingston, February 1, 1780. 2 See Huntington to the States, February 10, 1780. 3 A December 22 letter from Benjamin Lincoln to the committee for corresponding with the southern department, which was read in Congress on February 7, is in PCC, item 158, fols. 309-12, but it does not contain the extract quoted by Huntington. JCC, 16:129-30. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia Feby 7th 1780 I do myself the honour to forward the enclosed letter from Genl Lincoln address’d to your Excellency. As Major Lane the Express charged with this letter was late a Prisoner in Savannah, and your Excellency must be anxious to know the State of the Prisoners in the southern Department, I have exam ined him on that Subject and taken his information in writing which is herewith enclosed, yet hoping you may find in Genl Lincolns Letter a more accurate Account of the Matter. 1 I have the honour to be, with the highest respect, your Excy’s hble Servt, Sam. Huntington RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Huntington apparently enclosed a letter to Washington from Benjamin Lincoln of December 23, 1779, and a statement signed by Maj. Joseph Lane, Jr., concerning his recollection of the status of prisoners of war in the southern department. Lane explained that there had been a “general” exchange of noncommissioned officers and privates, which had left the British indebted 106 men, but only a “partial" exchange of officers, which had left a few Americans unexchanged. These included Col. Sam uel Elbert and assistant commissary Mordecai Sheftall, plus five others he knew by name and a few he could only vaguely remember. A transcript of Lincoln’s letter is in the Sparks Collection, MH-H; an extract from it concerning the enemy’s claim that Elbert should be exchanged as a brigadier, which was appended to a copy of Lane’s “information,” is in the Washington Papers, DLC.
