392 February 7, 1780 Nathaniel Peabody to Woodbury Langdon My Dear sir No 8. Philada. Febry. 7th 1780 I had not the happiness of Receiving a line from you this last Post the last I Reced. was No. 4 which I Noticed last week. 1 Mr. Livermore arrived here the 5th. 2 Puts up in the Chamber You left. Mr. Folsom Lodges at A Mrs Marshals, but where it is, or how he lives I am unable to inform. The affair of Bradford is frequently agitated but we have come to no dicision upon the matter as Yet, though I think we shall in a few days when I am apprehensive the conclusion will be agreable to my wish. 3 The Vermont affair has not come on but will soon. 4 Ira Allen has been going to and fro in the Earth and walking up & down in it, ever since the Month of November last and I am informed Jos. Fay & a Col. Robertson from the Grants is in the Citty, but I have not seen Fay. 5 A Col. Olcott and Mr. Woodword are now here and there views appeare to me verry agreable. 6 I am of opinion they by no means wish to be seperated from the state of N.H. N.Yrk. with their usual industry will exert every nerve to bring their purposes to pass—but what will be the isue is to me uncertain. The state will soon be called upon to fill up their Regiments so as to compleat about 1200 Men, 7 and also to furnish their proportion of supplies, for the Army, that we may be in a situation to carry on a Vigorous campaign the ensuing Year, or to Negociate to advantage if peace should be proposed. The convention is now siting here, who were to have considered the limitation of prices but have not come to a conclusion as Yet. 8 The Spaniards have made considerable progress among the English settlements upon the River Misisippi—taken 900 British Troops &c 9 —no news of the fleet since they left N York nor from Europe a late date—except fresh terminations of the friendly dispositions of the Christian & Catholic Kings—and their willingness to Cooperate with Us in carring on the War. N T otwithstan[din]g the high price every thing bears here, Bills meet with a dull sale. I have proposed to contribute our proportion of the public Expence by building ships &c. What think you of this and at what rate can they be built in sterling money? I would write my mind of men and things with more freedom, but I understand many letters from Congress have of late fallen into bad hands &c. with expectation of obtaining the secrets of Congress so that outward bound letters must be cautiously wrote. I was in great hopes to have been relieved by Mr. Livermore but find I am not, and nothing but the cause of my country and the advice of my friends (among whome I have placed not a little depen dance upon your opinion) Could have induced me to crucify my interest, & by Tarrying here through the winter, and I must
