February 7, 1780 393 beg your influence that I may be releived verry Early in the spring as I shall absolutely if alive within about eight weeks from this time at furtherst. I shall not fail to write to you, and hope for returns. Please to make my Compliments agreable to Your lady, to Mr. Speaker & his lady & all honest friends. I am Dear Sir at 4 Clock in the morning, Your most Obedient and verry Humble servant, Nathl. Peabody FC (PPL: Pemberton Red Book). In the hand of Peabody and endorsed: “To Judge Langdon. Copy. Feby—80.” 1 Not found. 2 Samuel Livermore presented his credentials to Congress this day. JCC, 16:129. 3 Peabody was apparently referring to an effort to remove John Bradford as naval agent and head of the Eastern Navy Board. It was undoubtedly to Bradford that Langdon was referring in a December 21, 1779, letter to Peabody when he discussed the prospects for removing “a certain Agent . . . which you mention is likely (and which must be done or we are ruined).” Roberts Collection, PHC. Bradford, however, remained in office. 4 See James Lovell to Samuel Adams, February 1, 1780, note. 5 For the activities of Ira Allen in behalf of Vermont statehood at this time, see James B. Wilbur, Ira Allen, Founder of Vermont, 1751-1814 (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1928), pp. 144-52. Although Allen was in Philadelphia at this time, he was apparently acting fairly independently of his fellow agents, Stephen Bradley, Jonas Fay, and Moses Robinson, who submitted representations to Congress on February 1 and 7, but who had already left to return home. Peabody’s disparaging reference to Allen is doubtless to the fact that he used his trip to Philadelphia as an opportunity to visit leaders in New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, and Pennsylvania in a missionary campaign to develop support for Vermont’s stand before Congress. Some of his accounts for expenses incurred in this endeavor (including £922.8 “Spent in a Jour ney to Maryland and Attending Congress with J. Fay, Mr. Robinson and S. R. Bradley”), as well as a few of those for Bradley, Fay, and Robinson for expenses on their Philadelphia mission, are in “Orders on the Treasurer,” vol. 8, Vt-PR. 6 That is, Peter Olcott and Bezaleel Woodward, representatives of the “towns in the northern district of the New Hampshire Grants, on both sides of the Connecticut river, ” who were opposing Vermont’s pretentions to independence and establish ment of the territory’s boundary at the Connecticut River. 7 New Hampshire’s actual quota as voted by Congress on February 9 was 1,215. See JCC, 16:150; and Samuel Huntington to the States, February 10, 1780. 8 The Philadelphia convention for limiting prices met this evening and came to a number of resolutions. The commissioners also met briefly the following evening before adjourning “to the fourth day of April next.” See William Ellery to William Greene, February 15, 1780, enclosure. 9 Peabody was apparently referring to the Spanish capture of Baton Rouge, Manchac, and Natchez in Spetember 1779, news of which arrived in letters from Gen. Benjamin Lincoln that were read in Congress this day. JCC, 16:129-30. Nathaniel Peabody to William Whipple Dear Sir, No. 14. Philada. Febr. 7th. 1780. I was favoured this evening with your agreable favour of the 27 of Deer, and am much Obliged to you for part of the information Contained in your letter but am unhappy to find you are not more
