February 9, 1780 401 Samuel Holten’s Diary [February 9-10, 1780] Feby. 9. Wednesday. Congress agreed to resolutions for filling up the army. 1 No news. 10. Thursday. 2 I dined with the Honorable R. Morris Esqr. No post come in. MS (MDaAr). 1 See Samuel Huntington to the State, February 10, 1780. 2 This day Holten also wrote the following brief note to the Board of Treasury, which the board immediately acted upon and Congress endorsed on the 11th. See JCC, 16:154. “I shall consider my-self under obligation if you’l report to Congress a resolution in my favor for 5,000 dollars, for which sum, the state I’ve the Honor to represent will be accountable.” Holten Papers, DLC. William Churchill Houston to Benjamin Franklin Sir, Philada. 9 February 1780. I take the Liberty of troubling you with the enclosed Letters to put them in the Way of reaching the several Persons to whom they are addressed, being assured you will excuse it. A Plan at this Time lies before Congress for establishing regular Packets to France 1 which bids fairer to be attended with Success and Execution than any hitherto attempted or projected. It is to be hoped when this is carried into Effect, the Court of France will adopt a similar Measure. The Connection and Intercourse between the two Nations require such an Establishment, and will also be greatly pro moted by it. Should this take Place, the Committee of Foreign Affairs will not find it so difficult to communicate constantly with the Gentle men who manage the Interests of the Union abroad. It is to be lamented that so great a Slackness has prevailed in this respect hitherto, it being indeed difficult to find Conveyances every Way suitable, but the proper Improvement has not been made in many Cases even of such as offered. I have no Wish to increase Your Excellency’s Labour of Corres pondence, but beg Leave to mention that I would willingly endeav our to make your Intelligence more frequent, if agreeable to you, being satisfied that the publick Interest may derive Advantage from the regular Communication of Facts though unattended with reflections. By Dispatches dated 22 December last from General Lincoln 2 at Charlestown in South Carolina we are informed that the Enemy are quiet in the Town of Savanna and it’s Environs, and have not made any Irruptions into the Country as was apprehended. From this I am led to believe that they suffered more deeply than we supposed
