402 February 9, 1780 when the Town was attempted by the allied Forces under the Com mand of Count D’Estaing and General Lincoln. It is also mentioned that the Spaniards have attacked the English Settlements on the Mississippi, and made nine Hundred Prisoners, and that an Expedi tion from the Havanna was shortly expected to proceed against Pensacola or St. Augustine. A large Detachment is ordered from the main Army in New Jersey into the Southern Country, so that in all Probability Things will go well there. Vigorous Preparations are making on our Part for the ensuing Campaign. The Enemy since the Evacation of Rhode-Island possess only York-Island and the two adjacent, and have about the End of last Year embarked six or eight Thousand Men for the Southward or the West-Indies, perhaps both. I beg Leave to request, Sir, you will be so good as to procure me tha Nautical Almanack 3 for 1780 and 81 published in London under the Direction of the Comisioners of Longitude and which, I suppose, can be had in Paris. It is not to be bo’t here, and I had rather give any Price than be without it. I will answer your Bill to any Person in this City, and acknowledge the Kindness by any Services in my Power. I am, Sir, Your Excellency’s most obedt Servant, William Ch Houston RC (PPAmP: Bache Collection). 1 The Board of Admiralty’s February 1 plan for establishing three packet boats that would sail between Philadelphia and Nantes on a bimonthly basis is in JCC, 16:117. It was apparently never acted on. 2 Lincoln’s letters of December 19 and 22 to the committee assigned to correspond with the southern department was read in Congress on February 7, 1780, and referred to the Board of War and the Committee of Intelligence. JCC, 16:129-30. 3 That is, The Nautical Almanac and Astronomical Ephemeris, published annually since 1767. New York Delegates to George Clinton Sir, Philadelphia 9th Feby 1780. The Great interest which our State have in the speedy determina tion of the controversy between it, & the neighbouring States, as well as their own refractory subjects in the North eastern Counties, lead us to take the earliest opportunity of laying before you all that has passed in Congress relative to that business, & to represent the dis agreeable situation in which we are placed by being unfurnished with the act of Submission, & the necessary materials for defence. 1 We have ordered the papers to be copied, & shall enclose them together with the enteryies of them on the journal. 2 You will not be surprized that we made no motion upon the occasion, & contented ourselves with general declarations, & a succesful opposition to their being committed, which was very much laboured. Had we done otherwise we shd. necessarily have brought on the question—have
