February 9, 1780 403 your legislature agreed to submit the matter? Are your ready for trial? As both must have been answered in the negative, it would have put it in the power of the Other States, & even of the People upon the grants, to insist upon an immediate hearing agreeable to the terms of the resolutions of Congress. We do not chuse to dwell upon the embarrassing & distressed situation to which the delay of Genl. Scot & Mr. Duane have reduced us. We could have wished to have had the benefit of their assistance in a matter of so much moment to the State, or at least, if deprived of that by any unfore seen accident, to have been possessed of such materials as would have enabled us to exert our poor abilities in her behalf. We do ourselves the honour to enclose your Excellency the only paper which we have reed, upon the subject. You will judge how far this could be serviceable to us. As it may be of some consequence to know the disposition of our antagonists We will endeavour to give you all we can collect here. Masachusets seems to be indifferent about their claim. New Hampshire extreamly anxious to have a determination, but more so to come to some amicable settlement by which they may preserve to themselves such towns as wish to be with them, on the east side of the mountains, & to relinquish all on the West side absolutely together with those on the east side which wish to be connected with New York. The people who have the power on the grants are firmly determined as far as we can collect, to opposi tion by arms. From this State of facts we are unanimously of opinion, that agents shd. be appointed to conclude some agreement with New Hampshire, and to form a treaty with them for the restoration of peace and good order in that part of the government. The Issue of an appeal to arms considering the dispo[si]tion of our own people, of those on the grants, & in the eastern States, will we conceive be very doubtful, the Country turbulent & unquiet, & the expence of the force necessary to subdue it beyond our abilities. Nor can it be of importance to have subjects whose natural connection is with another State, the Mountains opposing an insuperable bar to their commer cial intercourse with New York. These sentiments we have taken the liberty to submit to your Excellencys consideration, if you shall think them worthy your atten tion you will communicate them to the Legislature. We also enclose the result of a months conference of delegates from different states in convention. 3 We thought it proper in order to avoid all censure, that one of us shd. attend, & assure them of the disposition of our State to do all that was required of them upon this subject. We must most earnestly recommend it to our Legislature to take immediate measure for informing themselves accurately of the quan tity of flour, grain, & hay, taken for the use of the army, under the Laws of our State, since the first of August last, as it may be of the utmost moment to them. A report now laying before congress for quotas in kind for the use of Army, & remitting two thirds of the tax
