February 10, 1780 405 have formed on good grounds, the restoration of Peace, and the future tranq[uility] of the United States, and particularly those to the Southward, in a great measure depend on the Compleat expulsion of the Enemy by the Operations of the current year. The Proportions of the Several States are far from being esti mated by any precise or Satisfactory rule; and you will perceive a resolution for an equitable adjustment of the expence attending the raising and providing for Such Troops as shall be found to be beyond the due proportions. The Ideas we have of the Circumstances of the State we have the honor to represent determined us to endeavour to obtain a resolu tion for making all the Efforts of the States for raising men, whether as regulars or Militia, a Common expence. 2 We remembered the vast Sums disbursed by the State and vast expences incurred in calling out militia and making extraordinary exertions in a War whose object is common, and whose Operations have been, perhaps, less threaten ing to her than to her Neighbors. We also foresaw, that She must make Still greater Exertions in Consequence of the Enemy having pointed their hostilities principally against the Southern States, and we deem it our duty, especially as doubts were thrown out in debate, to take the Sense of Congress, directly, on the Question in order that the General assembly may be fully informed, on a Subject So Inter esting to their Constituents. We have failed in our motion as you will See by the inclosed Extract from the Journals. The States who voted against it are very Apprehensive of very great, and perhaps unneces sary expence being the Consequence, if Such a resolution were it to have restrospect, but Seem to have no matterial objection to its future Operation. As our State is much Interested in the retrospective operation, we did not chuse to move it in that form without more particular Instructions from the State. 3 Your Excellency’s Ob. Servts., John Penn Thos. Burke. Allen Jones. RC (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Papers, Series II). In the hand of Thomas Burke. Tr (N.C. State Records, 15:334-35). 1 See Samuel Huntington to the States, February 10, 1780. 2 For Burke’s amendment to a motion made by Oliver Ellsworth, which Congress considered on February 6 and rejected on the ninth, see JCC, 16:127 28, 146-49. 3 Remainder of text taken from Tr. Samuel Huntington to the States Sir, Circular Philadelphia Feby 10. 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 9th Instant ascertaining the number of men exclusive of Com-
