412 February 12, 1780 Jefferson, who had explained in a December 16 letter that Bland’s claims for addi tional table expenses had been disallowed by the commissaries in Virginia, who were on the point of seizing his property to reimburse the Continent. Although Jefferson had succeeded in delaying their proceedings, he acknowledged that congressional action would ultimately be required to do justice to Bland. See JCC, 16:153-54; Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:228-29,265; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 17:430, 445-47. Huntington also sent a copy of this resolve to Bland in a brief letter of this date. PCC, item 14, fol. 296. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 12 Feby 1780 You will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 11th Instant respecting the State of Georgia, with an Extract of the Min utes of Council of the State of Georgia soliciting the Exchange & Promotion of Colo Elbert who was made Prisoner by the British in Georgia. This Officer though a Colonel in the Continental Army is a Brigadier in the Militia of the State of Georgia and the Enemy claim a Brigadier in Exchange for him. 1 I have the honour to be, with the highest Respect, your Excy’s hble servt, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 For Georgia’s recommendation that Col. Samuel Elbert be exchanged and promoted, and Congress’ February 11 resolve explaining that Elbert could not be promoted but that Washington would be encouraged to secure his exchange, see PCC, item 73, fols. 256-60; and JCC, 16:155-56. See also Huntington to Washington, February 7, 1780, note. James Lovell to Henry Laurens Dear Sir Feb. 12th. 1780 I send you Gazettes & Journals officially. As your Friend, I send my most affectionate Wishes for your Health & Prosperity. As an American very anxious about our public Cause (too, too much endangered by our vile Currency) I send my earnest Entreat ies that you would persist in your Endeavors to serve your Country, though Individually you have Cause of Complaint against Some of the Rulers of our Union for an ungraceful Negligence in matters essential to your Embassy. The great Points of recruiting the Army and providing Supplies for it, have prevented a Completion of Parts of Business that you wrote about. But I really hope they will speedily be finished & sent forward to you. We shall certainly fight another Year. Holland will therefore probably not treat of Alliance but will nevertheless place
