February 14, 1780 413 no Obstruction in yr. Way of borrowing Money from Individuals. Spain wants all the East Side of Mississipi. 1 Here I think we must absolutely refuse. Her other Wishes are complied with already in the discretionary Powers to Mr. Jay. I have scratched these few Lines because the prints should not go without being accompanied with my Assurances of affection & Esteem, Yr. most humble Servant, James Lovell RC (NN: Emmet Collection). Endorsed by Laurens: “James Lovel 12 February 1780. Received 23d March.” 1 For Spain’s interest in the war in America as outlined in the documents recently presented to Congress by the French minister, see JCC, 16:87-89, 102-9, 114 16; and Lovell to Samuel Adams, February 8, 1780. Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council Sir. Phila. Feby. 14th. 1780, Monday 9 o’clock A.M. Mr. Cranch being about setting out to Boston sooner than I expected, affords me ownly time to mention: That, on Saturday last, Congress received a short letter from the Hone. Mr. Jay, dated Marti[nico] Deer. 20th, informing, that off the Banks of Newfound- Land, they lost their masts, sails, &c, and arrived there the day before; And by another letter that came in the same vessel, we understand, that Mr. Gerard, Mr. Jay & family, sailed the 26th of the same month in a french Frigate; 1 so that I hope the delay will not be so great as was feared at first. By a late express from the state of Georgia, Congress have letters from Governor Walton informing, that, the assembly are again going on with business; by this you may see, it is not in the Power of our enemies to Govern one small state. 2 I have the Honor to be, with great respect, sir, your most obedient servant; S. Holten 3 RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: “The Honorable The President of the Council of Massachusetts.’’ 1 This is undoubtedly the “letter from Mr. Bingham’’ referred to in the Connecticut Delegates’ February 15 letter to Jonathan Trumbull, which may be the December 25 letter from William Bingham that was read in Congress on February 14 and referred to the Marine Committee. It is not in PCC. JCC, 16:164. Nevertheless, Jay did not leave Martinique until December 28. See Jay, Papers (Morris), 1:689. 2 See Samuel Huntington to George Walton, this date. 3 Holten also recorded in his diary for this day: “I wrote to the President of the council of Masachusetts per Post & to the Hone. J. Palmer Esqr. by Mr. Cranch.” Holten Diary, MDaAr. The letter to Joseph Palmer has not been found.
