February 14, 1780 415 Enclosed you will receive an Act of Congress of the 11th Instant expressing their sense of the Exertions, firmness & Zeal manifested by the State of Georgia under all their difficulties, and likewise approving of the plan adopted by the State of Georgia for reducing the four Battailions, and having for their Quota the ensuing Cam paign one Battallion of Infantry and one of Cavalry. 2 That the supernumerary Officers be considered as, and entitled to all the privileges of other Supernumeraries in the continental Army. I am also to inform you that a General Exchange of prisoners is now negotiating and I have informed General Washington of the Case of Colo Elbert which will have due attention paid to it, although Congress cannot at present promote Colo Elbert in the Continental Line. 3 By the act of Congress of the 12th Instant 4 also herewith enclosed you will observe that a Warrant is issued in favour of the Governor & Executive Council of the State of Georgia on the Treasurer of Vir ginia for three hundred thousand Dollars and the Board of War are to take the proper Measures to convey the same to Georgia. The other Six thousand Dollars mentioned in the Act are advanced out of the Coninental Treasury here and paid into the hand of John Foster the Messenger whom Capt Nash sent forward from Virginia with the Despatches and who now returns with these. I have the honour to be with much Esteem and respect, your hble Servt, Sam. Huntington President RC (N: Signers of the Declaration of Independence). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Walton’s December 15 letter to Congress and one of November 30, 1779, from Georgia speaker William Glascock are in PCC, item 73, fols. 250-65. Clement Nash’s January 23 letter to Congress (written from “Cumberland Court House, Virginia”), in which he explained that ill health was forcing him to entrust John Foster with the delivery of these letters, is in PCC, item 78, 17:103-6. In reply, Huntington wrote the following letter to Nash, a captain in the 3d Georgia Battalion, this date. “Your letter by John Foster together with the despatches from Georgia have been duly received and laid before Congress, and the same Messenger now returns, charged with this letter, with a number of Despatches of Importance for North & South Carolina & Georgia. “These Despatches are of such Consequence they must not be delayed one Day and if you are not able to proceed immediately you must see them forwarded with the greatest despatch and Safety so as to prevent any delay or Miscarriage. “I have procured to be advanced out of the Continental Treasury six thousand dollars and paid to the Bearer John Foster agreeable to your Request, also procured him a pair of Shoes and Saddle bags.” PCC, item 14, fols. 300-301. 2 The letters from Glascock and Walton had been read in Congress on February 3 and referred to a committee consisting of Thomas Burke, Cyrus Griffin, and John Mathews, who submitted a report on the 11th whose recommendations formed the core of the resolves transmitted herewith by Huntington. See JCC, 16:122, 155-56; and PCC, item 20, 2:441-42. 3 For the case of Col. Samuel Elbert, whose exchange and promotion had been recommended by the Georgia Council, see Huntington to Washington, February 12, 1780. 4 JCC, 16:160-61.
