February 15, 1780 417 William Ellery to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia Feby. 15th, 1780. In Consequence of the powers, for meeting a convention for limit ing prices, with which the State was pleased to invest me, 1 I joined it; and, after frequent meetings, we came to the resolutions which are herein inclosed. I did not forget to move and urge the convention to recommend to such States as had passed laws laying restrictions on inland trade, or inland embargoes to repeal them; but they did not chuse to come to any determination thereon until they should have decided on the subject of regulating prices, and so the motion is postponed. For news &c I beg leave to refer your Excellency to Mr Collins’s & my joint letter, 2 and am with great respect, Your Excellency’s most obedient humble Servant, William Ellery ENCLOSURE In Convention Monday Feby. 7th. 1780 Whereas at a Meeting of the several States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island & Providence Plantations, Connecticut, & New York holden at Hartford in Connecticut on the 20th of October 1779, It was then resolved that a Convention of Commis sioners from the States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island & Providence Plantations, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware & Maryland, & Virginia be requested to meet at Philadelphia on the first Wednesday of January then next for the Purpose of Considering the Expediency of limiting the Prices of Merchandize & Produce. 3 And whereas in Consequence thereof, Commissioners have met in Convention from the States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island & Providence Planatations, Connecticut, New Jersey, Penn sylvania, Delaware & Maryland. And whereas, the Assembly of the State of New York has not met since the Adjournment of the Convention at Hartford; but did pre viously authorize her Delegates to Pledge the Faith of the State for carrying into Effect a general Plan for regulating Prices, if recom mended by Congress, 8c this Convention have the fullest Assurance that the Measures which they may adopt will be agreed to by said State. And whereas, it is the Opinion of this Convention, that any Mea sures for regulating Prices, adopted, without the Concurrence of all the States, proposed by the Convention at Hartford might prove ineffectual. Therefore Resolved, That the President be desired to inform the Governor of the State of Virginia of the Proceedings of this Con vention: 8c request him to give the earliest Notice of the Determina-
