422 February 15, 1780 Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia Feby. 15th. 1780. Congress have come to sundry resolutions, determining the num ber of privates of which the army is to consist, and adjusting the quotas of the States; which we suppose are sent to the State; 1 but as it is possible that they may not reach your Excellency so early as this letter, we will just mention that the whole number of privates is to be thirty five thousand, and our quota eight hundred and ten. We objected to the quota assigned to our state, and proposed that it should not exceed seven hundred men; but were not able to procure any reduction. Several other States made similar objections; but it was thought too late to alter the adjustments and set the matter afloat, and so the report stands as it was offer’d by the board of war, only with the qualifying resolution added to it which you will take notice of. We received a letter last Saturday from Mr. Jay, our minister to the Court of Madrid, informing us that the Confederacy, off the banks of Newfoundland, met with a violent Storm which carried away her masts and Bowspreet, and obliged her to put away for Martinico where she arrived the 19th of December. His letter was dated the 20th. He further advises us that a British Squadron from St Lucia fell in with about 25 french merchant Vessels, under convoy of a frigate, off and bound to Martinico. That the enemy took 14 of them and drove too ashore. Monsieur De le’ Mothe Pequet was dispatch’d to persue them as soon as possible, but, his force being inferior to the enemy, it was not in his power to recover the capture. Mr. Bingham, our agent at Martinico, in a letter of a later date mentions that Mr. Jay sailed in the Aurora frigate for France the 26th of December. We are told that there are letters in Town from St. Eustatius so late as the middle of January; but not a word of news from Europe. The Georgians have organized Government, and are determined to hold their State as long as they can. The Seat of Government is at Augusta. The Spaniards have taken possession of the British Settle ments on the Mississippi; and a respectable fleet with 4000 troops sailed from Havannah for Pensacola or Augustine, or both the begin ning of December. Affairs wear a better aspect to the Southward than they did some time ago. We have not received any intelligence respecting the famous fleet from New York since it sailed. We have nothing further to add at present but that we are with great respect, Your Excellency’s most obedt. humble Servts. William Ellery John Collins P.S. Genl. Lincoln in a letter bearing date Jany. 8th 2 informs that by the last accounts from Savannah be was informed “that the 60th
