February 16, 1780 423 Regiment was order’d to St Augustine. The enemy seem to be alarmed at the movements of the Spaniards. We do not know yet the fate of Mobille or of Pensacola. There is some reason to believe that they are both in the hands of the Spaniards; this is undoubtedly the report in Savannah. I have it from deserters and Mr. Cowen one of our Offs, who lately left it. What foundation there is for the report or what gave rise to it I know not. I have my doubts with respect to the fact, though I think it my duty & that I may safely give the hint on mentioning my authority.” “I am just informed that 6 or 700 of the No. Carolina militia are arrived at Camden.” Camden is 126 miles from Charlestown. The No. Carolina Conti. Brigade were push ing on with forced marches. W E RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Ellery and signed by Ellery and Collins. 1 See Samuel Huntington to the States, February 10, 1780. 2 Lincoln’s letter, addressed “to the committee for corresponding with the com manding officer in the southern department,” was read in Congress this day but is not now in PCC.JCC, 16:167. However, a letter of the same date to General Washington, containing similar intelligence on the capture of Mobile and Pensacola, is in the Washington Papers, DLC. John Armstrong, Sr., to Horatio Gates Carlisle 16th Feby. 1780. Expresses his “uneasy feellings and anx ious apprehensions, on the distracted & melancholly State of our finances. . . . “The first, and fundamental remidy is the Regulation of Prices through all our States by the publick Authority of Law. 2d, a Speedy determined and judicious Reformation of mistakes or abuses, in the two great departments of the Staff, including in it a Retrenchment of Expences, Offices and Officers—and this by the by, cannot in my Opinion be effected otherwise than by the Several States, or their Commissioners, perhaps best appointed in their respective Counties. 3d, The laying in of certain quantities of Grain, at the expence of the Owners in Such Magazines as may be appointed, for which Carriage a moderate Miliage may be allowed, except in the distance of five miles, The Grain to be delivered at the regulated price, or pass in whole, or in part of the Owners Tax. These measures at Once Simple, regular & virtuous, aided by such taxation as the people can bear, which by the way must be greatly lessened to what it now is—and by Domestick Loans, will by the Divine blessing carry us on until a foreign Loan can have time to Operate. But if these Steps be declined, I dread to mention the approaching consequences. As for the Chimerically refined notions of Finance which some men have thrown out, they must be considered as so many Phantoms. The plain high way of Regulation by Law, appears now by fatal experience & dint of necessity the only rational line of our direction—and however
