February 16, 1780 425 Time of the General’s Writing (Jan 8th) had got to be allarmed about St. Augustine and were sending some of their Troops from Savanna to that Place. No Sight of the Enemy’s Fleet was had at Charlestown 16 Days after sailing from New York. Perhaps the News Paper of this Day may retail the Reports from Virginia of another Kind, a quite contrary one. Congress has taken so much notice of Govr Geo Walton’s Com plaints about Brig McIntosh as to inform him his Service in the southern Department is dispensed with, conveying to him a Copy of the Governor’s Letter and a Paragraph of one from the Speaker of the Georgia Assembly. 2 The Spirit of that State, as it appears in those Letters is excellent. Waltons Letter was directed to you or any of the old members from Massachusetts, and Gerry & I have not slighted the fair occasion of cultivating that Confidence which seemed to be placed now in a Spirit which some of Brownson’s Colleagues did not for merly coalesce with as he did. Govr. Walton says he shall certainly be here in the Spring. I suppose as a Delegate special if not general. I hope there has been no printed mention of my going abroad. Your News Papers are remarkable lately for more groundless Para graphs than most others. I have been told of my name, having thus got in. But I am far from Embarking and I own I am pleased, since I find how much Cabal enters into the Business. We are to discuss next Satday the Proposition for appointing a Resident with his official Powers to go to France instead of a Secy to the Embassy. This will dignify the Place enough for R R Livingston: 3 and I am somewhat inclined to think that our Affairs here make several wish to be away from the fatigue which they cause. I do not like the Scale of Influ ence abroad should have Weights from New York rather than from some other State. But I shall not encline to stand against R R L in the Nomination for the new Office tho I will always allow myself to stand as a Check upon Gr M s. 4 Upon the whole I must begin to think altogether of getting along thro’ the War as well as possible upon the old Ground of drudge hard & fare hard too; which is the Lot of most of the faithful in our Cause. I dare not believe the Paragraph from Virginia, in the Paper inclosed. 5 I believe I must forward my Accounts to Boston that I may get the Balances of the 3 years back, what was due in 77 would have so cloathed me that I should not need now to spend twice more for one Suit than I sent my Family through all that Year. 70 Dollrs. I pay for worstead Hose. Yours affectionately, J L RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Not found, and in Adams’ March 5 reply acknowledging letters recently received from Lovell, none of February 15 is listed. Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4:180-81.
