426 February 16, 1780 2 See Samuel Huntington to George Walton, February 14, and to Lachlan McIntosh, February 15, 1780. 3 See Robert R. Livingston to John Jay, February 10, 1779, note 3. 4 That is, Gouverneur Morris. 5 Lovell probably enclosed a copy of this day’s Pennsylvania Gazette which contained an “extract of a letter from York in Virginia” reporting that “the enemy has evacuated Savannah on a certainty.” James Lovell to Benjamin Lincoln Dear General 1 Feb. 16. 1780 I have reed. yr. favors up to Janry. 8th and have forwarded regu larly the Letters which you inclosed to my Care. You must not expect very regular Answers to them from the Interruptions to Journying caused by the severest Winter we have known since 1740, I mean severe as to Snow chiefly. We begin to made Shuttle Cocks of as usual when the Enemy are in yr. Quarter. I suspend all Belief but on your Letters, therefore let us have them as often as your greater Business will permit. You will hear from the Comtee. who receive your Letters, 2 what our State of Finance & Supply of Food & Rayment is or rather is not, Yet we are to look for a vigorous Campaign. I hope the States are rousing from a Sort of Lethargy, and that they will be able to carry on the next Campaign well notwithstanding the ill Appearances of the present moment. As to Penobscot we hear almost nothing. But it will be taken into the Plans of Opperation for our Army when recruited. So extensive a Continent calls for great Numbers of Defendants & we can find but few though it is a Land of Plenty, unless Avarice will relax a little of its harpy Demands upon our Treasury. Our State have determined to make good the Pay of their Troops for 3 years back, and have determined a Scale of Depreciation by a mean Ratio on the 4 Commodities of Beef, Indian Corn, Sheeps Wool & Soal Leather taken monthly from Jany. 77 to Jan 80, the last amountg. to 32, 50 [hundreths?] 3 for 1. This is turning the Tables upon the Farmers with a Vengeance I think. But yet Farmers must have done it in Court. I am, likely, to drudge on here another Year, and will be ready for rendering you any Services in my Power but trying to draw you from the Southward till Things look more favorably in that Quarter. Your affectionate, humble Servant, James Lovell [P.S.] All our Family join me in Love & Esteem for you. RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 1 The recipient of this letter was undoubtedly Gen. Benjamin Lincoln, from whom a letter of January 8 to the "committee for corresponding” with the southern depart-
