February 17, 1780 427 ment had just been received and read in Congress on February 15. See Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene, February 15, note 2. 2 That is, “the committee for corresponding with the commanding officer in the southern department.” 3 Lovell wrote what appears to be the word “hundreths” above the line at this point. Abraham Clark to the New Jersey Assembly Sir Philada. Febry. 17. 1780 The Convention for regulating prices have Adjourned till April and 1 fear the Attempt will prove Abortive, Virginia seems to hang back, no members have attended from thence, and as far as I can learn none have been Appointed, and their Legislature stands Adjourned till May. I shudder at the prospects before us, a Virgorous War to prosecute, while our money reduced almost to nothing, is Still depreciating with rapidity. The Current exchange here between hard money & paper is from 45 to 50 for one. In the Market, a paper Dollar is estimated at present at one penny and will soon be less than a half penny in all probability. Congress have now under Consideration the Apportionment of Supplies for the Army to be required of each state the present year, 1 One [Our] Quota at present stands at 18000 hundred weight of Beef or pork, 10,000 barrels of Flour, 3,758 bushels of Salt, 3,500 Tons of hay, 30,000 bushels of Corn, Oats or buckwheat. 2 The Estimate of Prices, as follows. Flour 4 1/2 Dollars per hundred, Summer fatted Beef 5 1/2 dollr per neat hundred, fall fatted Do. 6 1/2 dollars, Stall fed killed after Janry. 7 1/2 Dollars, fresh pork 7 dollars per neat hundred; Salted pork 22 dollars per barrl. containing 240 lb. Indian Corn, 3/4 dollar per bushl., Oats 1/2, Rie 1, Buckwheat 2/3 dollar per bushl., best first crop hay 15 dollrs. per Ton, Rum 1 1/2 dollrs. per Gall, Salt 3 dollars per bushl. For my part I dislike the plan altogether, as purchases ought to be made where most Convenient having regard to the places where they are to be consumed & the prices in the several states which must depend upon the seasons in them, but I am assured the plan is Agreable to the wishes of our Legislature, by whose Opinion I shall Always be governed. The Salt I fear will be procured with difficulty in our state, but as the prices above Are all Estimated in Specie & that Article Set at 3 dollars, I dare not refuse it to our State, Specially as other states wish for that Article and offer to take it from us in exchange for flour or Other provisions at the Estimated prices—but as Salt is much higher estimated than any other Article, I think we may exchange provisions for it to much greater Advantage by pri vate Contractor perhaps, by promoting the Manufactory of Iron on publick Acct, we may procure that Article of Salt in exchange for Iron and save our provisions. In Case our Legislature shall desire to
