428 February 17, 1780 be freed from procuring the Salt by taking upon them the Supply of Other Articles Equivalent in Value as Estimated, by Signifying their pleasure thereon, I am persuaded the matter can be affected. Thus far I had wrote before Congress took up the business of Supplies this Day, They had before gone through the Quotas and now took into Consideration the Prices as reported by the Comme. and have Agreed to the price for flour as Above mentioned. The next under Consideration was the Price of Beef, this is not finished but will I believe pass agreable to the report—more of us would be willing to Alter some Articles did we not see that it would deraing all we had before done without any Material Advantage, so that the Prices I have mention[ed], tho’ only as reported from a Come, from Each state will I believe be Agreed to. Should any material Alter ation take place so as to affect our state, we shall Attempt a reconsid eration of the Quotas. I am with all due respects to the Ceneral Assembly, your Obedt. & Humble Servt. Abra. Clark RC (Nj: State Papers). Addressed: “Caleb Camp Esqr., Speaker.” 1 See Samuel Huntington to the States, February 26, 1780. 2 New Jersey’s quota as stated here by Clark remained the same in the resolve adopted on February 25. Cf. JCC, 16:196. John Fell to Robert Morris My Dear sir, Philadelphia Feby 17th. 1780. Yesterday I had the Pleasure of Receiving your kind favour of the 8th Instt. Per Mr Erskine, and am realy sorry to hear of the very disagreeable situation of our distressd County. Since I Receivd your favour from Mount holly I have never had an oppertunity of writing you or certainly I should have done myself the Pleasure. You mention the Reform that you hope has taken Place in Philada. For my Part 1 know of no kind of Reformation, without disapation and extravigance can be deem’d so, to tell you the real truth, I never live’d so disagreeable in all my Life, (except in the Provost) and I some times have my doubts which is best. I want to see you exceedingly, do you not intend to come to Philadelphia, if you do, let me know, and if not, I shall do myself the Pleasure of waiting on you at Trenton; I have not yet heard of Mrs Fells arrival at home. If any inquireing friends at Trenton, Please to Remember me kindly to them; As the Post goes through Trenton twice a Week, I shall now and then ask you how you do. We are now in debate on the Report of the Committee of 12. Respecting the Quotas to be furnish’d per the several States it is, as Reports of this kind usualy are, subject to many amendments, I am under the Necessity of hearing and not speaking. I have got a bad Cold and am so hoarse I can hardly be heard, (Mr. Clark speaks my opinion on the subject).
