February 23, 1780 439 Samuel Holten’s Diary [February 23-25, 1780] 23. Wednesday. The Hone, the medical come, met in my chambr. The weather is cold. 24. Thursday. Congress sit late, upon very important matters. 1 The weather is cold. I wrote to the council of Massachusetts. 2 25. Friday. I wrote to Mrs. Holten (no. 105). 3 Congress called upon the states for large supys. MS (MDaAr). 1 Congress was considering “the report of the committee for estimating supplies.” JCC y 16:191-94. 2 Not found. 3 Not found. James Lovell to George Washington General Washington, Philada. Feb. 23d. 1780 From Expressions in some of your Excellency’s Letters to Con gress and in one lately to Baron Steuben I conceive that you imagine us more regularly informed than we have actually been about Euro pean Affairs—particularly about our Interests in France. 1 The Correspondence with our Ministers at foreign Courts passing especially under my Eye & Finger, I wish you to be persuaded that I will not omit giving you any Information in my Power from time to time which I can judge may conduce either to your Ease in the Formation of military Plans, or to your Relief under Anxieties about Supplies expected from Europe. With the latter View, I was putting some Facts together to warrant a Conclusion that our Letters to the King of France, and Invoices to our Minister there had arrived on the 19th of September. 2 Luckily however I am not left to Inferences, a Packet having come to my Hand from Doctor Franklin dated September 30th in which he men tions the Receipt & consequent Presentation of those Letters & Invoices: He signifies only his Hopes of obtaining all or a great Part of the Articles. But the Minister of France here had some Weeks ago known under a Date of October from Versailles that Supplies were certainly ordered, tho’ it was not clear till now that such Order was posterior to a precise Knowledge of our Wants being conveyed to the King. This is the only Letter received from Doctor Franklin since one of May 26 last year which came to hand Augst. 17th following. Doctor Lee under Date of Deer. 8th from Paris 4 has covered the King of England’s Speech to his Parliament on November 25th and Sir Joseph York’s Memorial to the States General of Holland on the
