444 February 24, 1780 Whatever we do we ought soon to do, or we shall frustrate the Views of our Allies who have pointed out to us plainly that we should be decisively vigorous this Campaign. Whether we do or do not fix the Prices now it would be wise in the Rulers of our State to cast about how they shall procure certainly and most oeconomically 56,000 Cwt of Beef 12,126 Bushels of Salt 195,628 Galls. West Indian Rum so as to furnish the whole in the Course of the year, the first partly on hoof & partly in Barrels. Pork may be given in Lieu of Beef. Continental Rum for W. India with the stipulated allowances if any are stipulated or if not at equitable odds. As to the Greatness of the Tax it should be considered we went on Years without any. What signifies calling for that which is nought? If the millions called for will not produce the Quota of Supplies double or treble millions must be had. And the States will get them with ten times the oeconomy that our commissarial Legions would. Let every Man that has a Tongue preach to bring about a vigorous Campaign. Excuse my slovenly Manner. I am really in want of two pair of Hands. I am alone again on the meek Comtee. of for. Affairs, Mr. Livingston & Mr. Houston being like their predicessors gone for a Season. 4 A Lee writes to the Comtee. of a Paris date Deer. 8 [a] few Words to cover The King of Englands Speech & Yorks memorial, 5 tollerably modest Things. But we ought not, as Arthur does, to conclude that England has no Friends in Europe because the Speech is silent on that Head. It would be wrong to hold up as Friends Those who may soon appear as Mediators. Or if any mean to take an armed active Part the Antagonist should not be forewarned. I own that I conclude from the Speech that England knows of a Certainty that she shall be befriended; And I believe she has been advised to say nothing of America by some intentional mediators. The tickling Story of the Stripes hoisted in Holland may have its Run But I have some Proofs that matters have been conducted more agreably to dutch Politics; and [In] a Way that will produce more sol[i]d Good than the Pleasure of indulging the proud Affectations of an rising Navy. J L RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 For the publication of the Franco-American treaties, see also Lovell to Horatio Gates, March 4, 1780. 2 Lovell undoubtedly wanted Adams to send Abigail Adams a copy of the Pennsylvania Packet of February 24, which contained extracts from the latest letters from Europe as well as King George Ill’s November 25 speech to Parliament and Sir Joseph Yorke’s November 26, 1779, memorial to the States of Holland.
