448 February 28, 1780 over the 6th Article of the confederation. I own that I felt no zeal of Jealousy on this Occasion. But since the Matter has been agitated & delicately quashed. I hope there will not hereafter be any Room to say that Congress have not Influence with the States nor chuse to let the minister of France try his. He certainly has a Right to treat with particular States thro’ Congress by the sd. 6th Article, in Implication. Surely then he may in that Chanel exhort 8c stimulate to the Fulfill ment of measures recommended by Congress. However, This being not the Question now, I recur to my Entreaty that you would be earnest in promoting all measures for a vigorous Campaign. Tho’ we were enjoyned Secresy; yet the minister had no Idea that the Governments of the States should not know that there is some proba bility of an armed Negociation; when, the Proposals made last yr. by Spain may be again advanced. The Enemy therefore should not be allowed to hold any Parts of the United States on the Day of Cessa tion of Hostilities. We may be assured of the Resources of the Realme of France being used for the Purposes of grand Diversions in our Favor as well as Cooperations here if we get into a Condition for Vigor. The order for this Day was to determine where we shall move to. That is put off for a Fortnight. I am well satisfied we shall not move at all. 4 Another order for this day was a report upon the Letter from our State; put off till Tomorrow It will cause much debating for I will strive to have something definite; whereas the Report touches only the charging all past Advances 8c Encreases of Pay as Deduc tions in the States Account against the Officers 8c Men. But it ought to be known whether the whole is to be a continental Expence. 5 I add herewith an Extract of the ministers Communications. 6 I give it to you as a Secret 8c no Secret to make the most judicious use of in yr. Power. I only say it is not a News Paper Business. Yrs. affectionately, J L 29th. Mr. Brailsford arrived this morning 8c has delivered a Letter with Instructions about the Penobscot affairs 7 8c Col. Allen the Agent. 8 Fessenden has dilly-dallied and will be chopping 8c changing on the Road therefore I send all by Post which I intended by him. RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Lovell omitted the year from the dateline and the letter was incorrectly endorsed in an unidentified hand “J. Lovell, Feb. 28. 1778,” but its content clearly indicates it was written in 1780. 2 See Samuel Huntington to the States, February 26, 1780. 3 This “circular letter to the Govrs. & Presidts. of the respective States” is not mentioned in the journals, but the chevalier de La Luzerne reported to Vergennes in a March 10, 1780, letter that several members of Congress had asked him to write an inspirational leter to the state executives urging greater efforts to raise supplies and taxes. He also reported that he abandoned the plan after other delegates objected to his communicating directly with the state governments. Archives de minist^re des affaires ^trangferes: Correspondance politique, Etats-Unis, 11:73. See also Lovell to Adams, March 17, 1780.
