February 29, 1780 453 ous modes; and our Anxiety for the Success of this most Necessary Measure, has carried us into the mentioning those few we have Suggested, not any opinion that the general assembly will have Occasion for our Advice in a matter, to which their own wisdom is, infinitely, more competent. We call it, Sir, a most Necessary Measure. We will venture to repeat that it is indispensible. We cannot See any thing that can be adopted, in lieu of it, that promises, even the most distant prospect of relief, and we hope from it, for many Essential advantages to the united States in general, and to our own in particular. As to the last, we shall only say that our Industry will be applied for the discharge of our part of the public burthens, at the Same rate with that of the other States, which our local disadvantages would prevent were we to pay in money only. As to the former, we hope the Measure will remove the public Necessity by the provision of Magazines previous to the want of them, that the Supplies, being furnished by all, and the remote coming in aid of those more near, will prevent that excessive demand, and excessive advantage taken of the public, which were the Consequences of procuring them only in the Neighborhood of the Army. That the evil of a numerous Staff department, established in such a manner as to enhance the most ruinous abuses, will be entirely removed. In a word Sir, will give us plenty of Supplies, without incurring heavy public debts; without giving partial advant ages; without causing partial burthens; without leaving us exposed to the abuses of peculation, or danger to our affairs from the precari ous Subsistance of our army. If these happy effects should flow from it, our resources will be as inexhaustible as our Industry. Money will attain to it’s true use and value, for, in Ordinary Commerce, no individual can be under Such Necessity as the public who are main taining a War for their very Existence. If prices of Necessaries con tinue high, those who want them must retrench in the use of them; or increase their Industry to enable them to purchase. The product of that Industry will no where find that Necessity which, at present, every one finds in the public. The market of high prices must be sought among the affluent, who will thus contribute to the support and increase of Industry, but, even among those, prices will find limits beyond which they cannot go; and commerce will so regulate itself 2 that even paper money, will find a Certain fixed value as the general representative of Industry—an Event which may in vain be looked for, so long as the Necessity of the public is Suffered to Continue, by neglecting or failing to foresee and provide for the demands before they arrive. On perusing the report it will be found that Congress have allowed liberal prices for every Article and all as Near as Could be in the same Proportions. The Prices of the year Seventy four were assumed from the best Information that could be obtained, and fifty per cent were added in Consideration of the particular Circumstances of the
