454 February 29, 1780 War. The whole indeed will operate as a loan from the Staple States to the whole union of which they must afterwards be charged with their proportions And be creditors for the Surplus. The States who have not Staples, or fail to Supply, will be debtors to the whole Union. It will easily appear to you that it was Necessary to fix the prices in Specie because nothing that is fluctuating could measure either the whole of the amount of Supplies or the several [propo]r- tional parts, and Consequently nothing else [could be] adopted for doing Justice to the whole or to each. You will find the quotas assigned to North and South Carolina far beyond what is their Supposed proportion but the prospect of a vigorous Campaign in the southern States, the probability of great Armaments being there employed, the impossibility of Supplying them with provisions from any other States, with other reasons which will occur to you, determined the Delegates of those States to assume the quotas as they now are, and induced Congress to make the requisitions. The Same Considera tions will explain the reasons for assigning the different Commodi ties as they appear in the Resolves. We shall only observe that North Carolina assumed the flower because South Carolina could furnish none, and the Troops from Virginia and North Carolina cannot be Subsisted upon rice. We will now Sir dismiss this subject first praying leave to press its importance in the most Strenuous Manner on the State General assembly. RC (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Papers). In the hand of Thomas Burke. FC (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Papers). In the hand of Thomas Burke. ‘ See Samuel Huntington to the States, February 26, 1780. 2 Remainder of RC missing; text taken from FC. Oliver Ellsworth to Samuel Lyman Dr sir. Philada. March 1. 1780 I am this day favourd with yours of the 7th of Feby. What the State of our finances will be three months hense? is indeed to me a hard question. I will as soon as it shall be in my power forward you the result of the deliberations of Congress on this Subject. In the mean time I am not disposed to advise you to any speculations in money, but rather to confine them to the Girls till more certain times open. You will glean from the enclosed papers most of the European intelligence reed, by the late arrivals. You may now put this in the fire. I am D sr., yr obed. hume servt. O Ellsworth 1 RC (MeHi: Fogg Collection). 1 Ellsworth also wrote a brief letter this day to his wife Abigail:
