March 1, 1780 457 be charged by Congress to the Debt of the United States and to the Credit of that State.” And, in Compliance with the Desire of the Honble. Assembly to know “whether this Matter has been settled here or considered, and what our Apprehensions of it are,” We beg Leave to inform them that we do not recollect any Act of Congress which settles the Matter; but, we conceive they have no Intention of conducting it agreable to the Expectation of the Assembly. This Opinion is founded on the Debates of Congress previous to their passing the Resolutions of the 17th of Augst. last; 3 as well as on their late Resolve of the 9th of February respecting “the reasonable Expence” incurred by any State “in raising more than its just Propor tion of the Troops serving in the Army.” 4 And we apprehend it is the Intention of Congress that the Expence of making good the original Contract to the Officers and Soldiers shall be defrayed by each State so far as it respects “their just Proportion of the Troops actually serving in the Army from time to time.” We shall pay a particular Attention to the Instructions of the General Assembly respecting their Expenditures in the Penobscot Expedition, 3 and the other Matters contained in their Letter of the 9th of February 6 reed, the 28th and we shall give them the earliest Information of the Measures of Congress on those important Subjects. We have the Honor to be, with every Sentiment of Respect for the General Assembly and, Yourself, Sir, Your most obedient, and Very humble Servants, E. Gerry James Lovell S Holten Geo Partridge P.S. Inclosed is a Copy of the Letter 7 which we shall send to the several Officers of the Staff for their respective Accounts. RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: “The Honorable Jeremiah Pow ell Esqr. President of the Council of Massachusetts Bay.” Written by Lovell and signed by Lovell, Gerry, Holten, and Partridge. 1 The Massachusetts Council’s January 13 letter to Congress, seeking information on prices in order to adjust military pay “according to the rate of Depreciation,” is in PCC, item 65, 1:420-22. Since it was widely recognized that adjusting the pay of soldiers to the pace of inflation was necessary to maintain recruitment needs, Massa chusetts had moved the previous February to assure her troops “that there should be no failure of a just Settlement & Payment at the End of War agreeable to the true value of their first Engagement.” But no understanding had been reached on whether such added costs would be borne primarily by the state or by the Continent collectively, and most delegates seemed to assume that the issue could be postponed to the general financial settlement that would follow the end of the war. In its letter of January 13, the Massachusetts Council had left the matter rather vague, and Congress’ response to their query failed to clarify this issue, although as the Massachusetts delegates explained in the present letter, “we conceive they have no Intention of conducting it agreable to the Expectation of the Assembly.” For James Lovell’s concern that the operation of the Massachusetts act would work a hardship on the state, see also his letters to Benjamin Lincoln, February 16, and to Horatio Gates, March 4, 1780. 2 On February 29 Congress had resolved that: “all grants and allowances” made by Congress to Continental soldiers “in addition to their pay, rations or bounties, since
