March 5, 1780 465 same time tells you it is only 60 Pence should have his money realized, Or the Butcher that sold his fatt Cow, Yesterday at 20 Dollors a Pound, in that case his Cow would be worth as much as One of the Grand Moguls Eliphants. Or the Landlord that was paid last week for the Rent of a house £300 at the moderate Excha[nge] of 55 for 1. Or the Lawyer who asks you £100 Sterlg for a fee or in Conti at the Exchange. And yet on the other hand there are doubtless many instances were justice only requires it. I expect I shall tire you out before you have read all my nonsence, but I have not done yet. What think you of The Honble Silas Condict being appointed Quarter Master General. 3 Quere would not his Friend General Winds have understood the Business as well. I have not heard from Petersfield in several weeks & I am greatly distressed on the Account; If I had a Horse I believe I should be tempted to goe to see what was become of Mrs Fell and Son Peter. A number of Vessells have come up Yesterday and to day, what Effect it will have on the money I know not, but it seems to be agreed on all hands that money is very scarse hear at Present, A very droll circum stance of One of the Vessells from Cadiz, having along Passage and bad weather had been oblidged to throw her Guns over Board, came up with a Snow of 10 Guns which he boarded and took, and after getting the Guns on Board his own Vessell, he took a Brig, both said to be valuable Cargoes, The Watchman say it is Past 10 o Clock, time to goe to Bedd, so Adieu, Good night. Monday morning [i.e., March 6]. I forgot to tell you last night, when I was out I heard there was letters come from So Carolina on the 10th Feby no account then of the arrival of the British Fleet. On Saturday Congress agreed not to draw any more Bills on Europe till further orders; 4 I have been uniform in opposing the Plan of drawing Bills from the first time it was mentiond for several reasons. P.M. This day has been taken up chiefly in dispatches from Major [General] Lincoln dated the 31st Jany. 5 He says on hearing of the Fleet on the Coast he sent out two frigates, who went and lookt in the River at Georgia where they see 5 Ships which they took to be line of Batle, One of which had an Admirals flag and I think about 14 Sail of other Vessells, but on seeing the Ships, Prepairing to make Sail they made the best of their way to Charlestown agreeable to their orders, they took 2 or 3 Vessells with 40 Dragoons and some Officers. One of the Vessells had had 45 Horses on Board, but had thrown 43 Over Board. 1000 of the No Carolina Militia were arrived and the Express who did not leave Charlestown till the 7th February says General Hogan with his Continental Troops, and Coll Washington with his horse were about 100 Mile off on their way and that several Vessells had arriv’d at Charlestown before he came a way from St.
