470 March 6, 1780 are solid, but as usually happens in such Cases the other Side is not without Somewhat to say. I am still in the Situation I was when I wrote you first, undecided and querying. I am not of Opinion that the Confederation guarantees to the States any Bounds, and much less Bounds which they may claim ad Libitum without any formal Decision or Control. In our United State no Measure can be taken for the Circumscription, with any Tolerable Prospect of Success; I am convinced of this from the Temper I have seen discovered in Discussions of the Subject in Congress, and Claims are set up which I am well persuaded cannot be countenanced by any Documents in the Hands of the Claimants: but confederated, I must take the Lib erty of saying Congress of Right might bring any State to shew their Grounds of Claims and decide whether the Union ought to recog nize and defend the Extent to which they go. It is doubtless a Defect in the Confederation that no Mode is laid down for deciding between the United States and any one of them, in a Matter of this Kind, as well as between any two or more States where a Difference subsists as to Boundary; but this must be taken as inc[. . .to the?] Constitution of the Confederation, it being clear to me that there is within the Limits of the whole Confederacy Lands to which no particular State can shew any Title: and if there is one Mile square there may be a Million, and as no Right can subsist without a remedy of obtaining it, it is proper to make the Search, and to take the means for doing so. Suffer me to state three or four Particulars. 1. The United States are not in Capacity to take or hold Lands. They are associated for Defense and carrying on the War. Do the Acts and Instructions of the several States from which the Deputies come extend to any other Object but this, and those collateral and necessarily incident to it? And on this Footing I have ever opposed all Propositions for purchasing real Property as a Congress, and particularly in a late Instance in which a Proposal was made to sell to the Union the Estate upon which the Fortifications at West-point are erected. 3 2. Pursuing this Idea were there a Territory acknowledged to [. . .] be out of the ownership or Claim of any particular State in the Union, are the United States assembled in Congress constituted or authorised to dispose of it? Or had they a Claim to Land or Territory in any State are they a Person or Body politick to pursue it? In my View, they are at present [under a] mere temporary Association, confederated they would stand on different Ground. 3. You see by the Act I sent you of 19 February last, passed in the State of New-York, 4 that there is a Disposition in that State to have their Limits ascertained, and in Order to satisfy the Discontents of many of their Sister-states they may be disposed to do what is reasonable. Their Example may be followed by other States, and though it may be said this will be more likely to be the Case before the Completion of the Confederation than after; as seems to be your Opinion; I confess it does not strike me, but that there will be a better Disposition to it then than now, while Jealousy
