March 6, 1780 473 I hope before this comes to Hand, you may receive such Reinforce ments as shall enable you to defend Charlestown and cover the Country so as to prevent further Incursions of the Enemy. I am Sir with great Respect and Esteem your humble Servt, Sam. Huntington President RC (NcU: Preston Davie Collection). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Lincoln’s January 29 letter reporting the arrival of an enemy fleet off the coast of Georgia and the vulnerability of South Carolina to immediate attack is in PCC, item 158, fols. 313 15. The enclosed resolve, adopted on motion of South Carolina dele gate John Mathews, requested these recruiting measures to augment the southern army under Lincoln’s command as soon as possible, but anticipating that compliance would consume several months went on to specify “that, in the meantime, the said states be requested to raise a body of militia, to join and serve in the southern army until the first day of January next, unless sooner relieved. . . ."JCC, 16:234. See also Committee of Congress to Lincoln, March 7, 1780. Samuel Huntington to William Livingston Sir, Philada March 6. 1780 Your Excellency will receive enclosed an Act of Congress of this Day recommending to the Legislature of New Jersey to take Mea sures for the Payment of the Accounts arising for Supplies lately furnished to the Army in Consequence of the Application of the Commander in Chief, in the mode which they may judge most con ducive to the Relief of those who have furnished them including the same in account against the United States subject to Examination as other Charges. 1 I have the honour to be &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Congress adopted this resolve in response to a Board of Treasury report which explained that simply as a practical matter supplies recently collected in New Jersey “can be more conveniently paid and settled under the direction of the State than in any other mode.” See JCC, 16:235-36. Philip Schuyler to Samuel Huntington Sir Philadelphia March 6th. 1780 In the letter which I had the honor to address your Excellency on the 15th ult. from Saratoga I purposed personally to have explained myself to Congress on the Subject of the Appointment of the 21st of January last 1 but reflecting that notwithstanding the entire confi dence 1 entertain of the honor and candour of every Individual member of Congress It is nevertheless possible that thro want of perpescuity in Expressing myself or misapprehension in others, what 1 may verbally deliver on the Subject may be unintentionally Con-
