482 March 9, 1780 Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir Philadelphia March 9. 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 8th Instant, recommending to the States of Virginia, North, and South Carolina to have in readiness to act as the Operations of the Campaign shall require a Body of five thousand Militia, or State Troops over and above their Quotas of Continental, and to be called into actual Service whenever the Commanding Officer in the south ern Department shall deem it necessary. 1 Your Excellency will also observe the discretionary Directions given to make such Detachment from the Troops under your immediate Command as their Strength and Circumstances will permit to rein force the southern Army. 2 You have also enclosed an Act of the 6th Instant requesting the Exertions of Virginia and the two Carolinas in filling up their Battailions &c. 3 It were much to be desired we could obtain a more accurate Knowl edge of the number and Strength of the Enemy to the Southward and their intended Operations. I have the honour to be, with the greatest Respect, your Excy’s hble servt, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 'JCC, 16:239-40. 2 Washington was reluctant to detach troops to the southern department in keeping with this “discretionary” request until he was better informed of the enemy’s inten tions for the 1780 campaign, but on April 2 he informed Congress that despite the risk involved in weakening his main army, he was placing “the Maryland line and the Delaware Regiment under marching Orders immediately,” and he asked assistance in arranging their transportation southward of the Delaware River. See PCC, item 152, 8:487-91; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:197-200. 3 For these measures to reinforce the southern department, see Huntington’s let ters to Thomas Jefferson and to Benjamin Lincoln, March 6, 1780. James Lovell to Samuel Adams Dear Sir March 9. 1780 Be so kind as to place with the Navy Board the Letters for France and forward to Mrs. A Adams those for her. By some fatality the Letter of our Court of Deer. 2d never reached Congress but in a Copy two days ago: Nor had a Line from you or any body else come to the Delegates on the Subject. 1 The next Post will probably convey a Proclamation for Fasting &c. on the last Wednesday of April. New York presses Congress hard upon the Resolves in regard to Vermont but I believe there will be much parrying. The plain Truth is the People of the Grants gave assur-
