March 12, 1780 489 may truly deserve that pleasing appellation is my sincerest wish, my fervent prayer, Adieu, my friend, and believe me to be sincerely such, Ph. Scuyler Tr (PRO: C.O. 5, 110:101-2). Endorsed: “Rebel Intercepted Letters No. 1 and 2 taken at Paramus the 23d of March 1780 (No. 1) In Major Genl. Robertsons of 26 March 1780.” 1 The intended recipient of this letter may have been Jacob Cuyler, deputy commis sary general of purchases at Albany and a correspondent of Schuyler’s. William Smith, the loyalist former chief justice of New York, stated in his journal for March 30, 1780, that “The Governor [i.e., Gen. James Robertson} produced this Day to the Council at Mr. Elliot’s an intercepted Letter of Philip Schuyler’s (I believe) to Jacob Cuyler, a Commissary at Albany, for the Wrapper was lost; and another from Francis Lewis to his Son Morgan Lewis. He intended, he said, to cause them to be published in the News Papers.” William Smith, Historical Memoirs from 26 August 1778 to 12 November 1783 of William Smith . . ., ed. William H. W. Sabine (1958; reprint ed., New York: Arno Press, 1971), p. 247; and Milton M. Klein and Ronald W. Howard, eds.. The Twilight of British Rule in Revolutionary America: The New York Letter Book of General James Robertson, 1780- 1783 (Cooperstown, N.Y.: New York State Historical Association, 1983), p. 82nn.9-10. Schuyler’s letter, with another captured at the same time, from Francis Lewis to Morgan Lewis of the same date, was printed by James Rivington in the Royal Gazette, April 1, 1780. John Fell to Robert Morris Dear sir, Philada. March 12th. 1780. Sunday. I wrote you last week, of great expectations, of a Plan for fixing the Quotas and supplying the Treasury &c. After several days spent in a Committee of the whole, it was agree’d to recommit all the Papers to a Committee of 6 who have not yet Reported. 1 There is a Phraise often made use of that we are Pretty near the End of the tether, that realy appears to be too much the Case. However if we can hold out a little longer we have a hope in Pro[v]idence yet for Yesterday a Committee brought in a draft of a proclamation for a Fast &c on Wednesday 26th of April, which was Read; 2 I thought there was an omition and moved for an amendment, which was inserted, but it seems I Laugh’d at the time, for which Mr Clark seemd much displeasd with me, however he got up and said he thought some of us, acted like Infidells (I suppose he meant me). Tomorrow is the day fixt for Congress to determine, whether they will adjourn from Philadelphia. It is also the order of the day (but I do not remember wheth[er] I wrote you last week). The great and Important day, big with the Fate of the People, of the New Hamp shire Grants (Alias the State of Vermont) Neither of which I imagine will come to any thing determinate. Yesterday a Report of a Commit tee, for Reccomending to the several States, the Revising or Repeal ing the Tender Law as it is calld, 3 And though I was one that gave my Assent to it, I think it has been Productive of more mischief in its
