490 March 12, 1780 Effects, then any one Act that ever was Past, I can speak from woefull experiance. P.M. Monday 5 OClock [March 13]. The Adjournment of Congress, and the State of Vermont (as some would have it,) were both Postponed, to take up a Report from a Committee on Finance, which was Read and afterwards went in to a Committee of the whole, but as it will take some time to digest I shall say no more on the subject at Present. I am with great Esteem, Your Real friend & Humble Servt, John Fell NB Eastern Post not come in yet. RC (NjR: Robert Morris Papers). 1 For the report of this committee, see the following entry. For the fiscal resolves adopted by Congress on March 18, see Samuel Huntington to the States, March 20, 1780. 2 JCC, 16:252-53. s The report of the committee “respecting tender laws” had been referred to the “Committee on Finance.” JCC, 16:253. Philip Schuyler to George Washington Dear Sir Philadelphia March 13 [ 12]th 1780 1 Since my last the business of Finance has been Committed agreable to my wish. Livingston, Holten, Houston, Elsworth, Burke & Schuyler were appointed. They have put the finishing hand to the business this day. I sincerely wish the Supposed Sanctity of the day may have An Influence on the deed, the report will be delivered to Morrow. 2 The Great Object In view is Speedily to Call out of Circulation the present circulating medium, to give It In the Interim a permanent Value by assigning a certain proportion to Each State for the pur pose of redemption, to Emit new Bills on State Credit and to fund them on Specific and permanent taxes laid as a farther Security In case of the failure of a particular State to pledge the faith of the Confederacy, and to Issue them In a limitted proportion to those now In circulation and as these Shall be destroyed, so as that their shall never be of old at 40 for 1 and new at par above ten million In Circulation—the New to bear Interest payable In Specie at the End of Six Years or Annually by bills on france. Altho Congress found me determined not to Accept any office which would carry the appearance of my being their Servant they had the Indelicacy to appoint me one of a Committee to assist Gen. Mifflin & Mr Pickering for the purpose mentioned In the resolution of the 20th January. I am determined not to Commit my reputation on a Business which I foresee from the Manner In which It will be Conducted, will neither redound to the honor of the Agents or the
