494 March 13, 1780 The Numbers of men assign’d for New Hamp, to furnish is about one 6th part more, in my opinion, than would be their Just Quota. Yet as Congress did on the 9th ulto Resolve “That the reasonable expence any State hath incur’d or may incur by raising and having in the Continental Army more than what shall hereafter appear to have been their Just proportions of the Troops Actually serving in the Said Army from time to time, Shall be allowed to Such States & Equitably adjusted in a final Settlement of their account with the United States” the Injury will not be so great, or in other words, a prospect of future Justice will make the present Grievance more Tolerable. As to the apportionment, and prices, of supplies, appear to me an Object of Very Great magnitude and ought to be thoroughly investigated—Tho’ I cannot say the amount of Supplies alloted to New Hampr. to furnish, Estimated at the rates affixed to them, very far exceeds their due proportion, Yet I must Confess I feel no Small degree of Anxiety when I take a short retrospect of the various manners practiced in order to obtain those resolutions Especially that for affixing prices; which must evidently appear to every impartial person, well acquainted with the rates at which those articles were formerly or are at the present day, usually Sold in the Various parts of the Continent respectively Calld upon to furnish the same, it was by no means founded upon those Just and impartial principles of equallity & reciprocity which ought, at all times, to Govern in every important decision, as being the only Sure means of Cementing the Union of these States, or whereby a Nation can ever rationally expect to be Exalted. The ratio by which those prices in Specie were pretended to have been determined was for all Articles of American produce at 50 per Cent advance upon the prices Such articles were usually Sold for at the places of delivery, in the respective States in the year 1774—And Articles Imported from foreign ports in the same proportion with a reasonable additional Allowance for the Charge and risk of Importa tion. Let us now examine how far this Rule has been observed? Indian Corn in the Southern States was formerly Sold at from 21 to 24 90ths of a Dollar per Bushel, it is now rated at 67 1/2 90ths which instead of being 50, is 200 per Cent advance. Rye, Oats, and Many Other Articles of short forage nearly in the same proportion! The price of the best first Crop hay at the Market was formerly about 6, or 7 Dollars per Ton, it is now rated at more than Cent, per Cent. 3 advance above the former prices. The price of Merchantable flour in this City was formerly about Two Dollars per Cwt, Tho it was often Lower, Now rated at 4 Dollars & 1/2, which is 125 per Cent advance, but enough has been said to shew that Such States, whose distance from the Theatre of War, or other Circumstances, will not Admit of furnishing their proportions of these and many other
