March 17, 1780 515 Congress. 3 “G. Britain will acknowledge the Independce. of all the States except Sth. Carola. & Georgia & the Province of Main wch. are to be given to Great Britain. Mr. T is to be allowed to draw for whatever Sums of Money he thinks proper.” The following were offered by the British King and rejected by Mr. T . “The U.S. to join their Arms wth G.B. against Spain. If this cannot be obtained, the sd. States not to assist Spain against G Br. If this shd. be rejected then the best Terms possible on this Head to be made”. I cannot say what Credit is to be given to this Information but I know the Hint will make you watch & put Things together as they turn up tending to prove or disprove the Story now told. I suppose you are convinced that nobody can tell what Value common Consent will from day to day put upon our continental Bills. 300 for one may be demanded next Week; tho’ it is evident that there is not enough now for the Prices current. Something must immediately be done I hope we shall decide Tomorrow; And I doubt not the States will provide Funds. Pensylvania is most earnestly engaged in providing for her Quota. It behoves our State to be looking about for her Foundation whether in Plate or Lands or both. But I shall lose the Post if I do not drop any further Explanation. Yrs. J L RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 For this reference to the chevalier de La Luzerne, see Lovell to Adams, February 28, 1780, note 3. 2 See the letters of the Massachusetts Delegates to La Luzerne and to the Massachu setts Council of March 15, 1780. 3 This rumor that John Temple was bringing new peace offers from Britain proved to be false, although he did return to Boston in October 1781 for a sojourn of two years. For his previous unsuccessful attempt at diplomacy in America, see these Letters, 10:553-55, where he is also identified. Nathaniel Peabody to Meshech Weare Sir Philada., Friday 3 ck. P.M. 17th March 1780. I have only time to observe that Congress have this moment received the following information, 1 and may probably be depended upon as to Substance—viz. “Mr. Temple is comming out with the following propositions to Congress. G.B. to acknowledge the Inde pendance of all the States except So. Carolina & Georgia, and that part of Massa bay Call’d the Province of Maine, this together with So. Carolina & Georgia to be given to G Britain. Mr. Temple to be allowed to Draw for whatever Sums of money he pleases. The follow ing propositions were offered by the B. King & rejected by Mr Temple viz the United States to Join their Arms with G. Britain a[gains]t Spain—if this Cannot be obtained—the Said States not to
