516 March 18, 1780 assist Spain against Britain—if this shoud be rejected then to make the best Terms on this Head he Can. “This intelligence Comes from Holland to a Gentleman of high rank in this City by a letter dated 29 Deer 79.” The post waiting. I have the Honr to be with great Esteem your most Obedt. & very Humble Sevt. Nathl. Peabody 2 RC (Nh -Ar: Weare Papers). 1 See the preceding document, note 3. 2 Peabody endorsed his draft of this letter, which is in Nh-Ar, Miscellaneous Revolu tionary Documents, and N.H. State Papers, 17:389-90: “Wrote Letters much of the same Tenor & Date to Col. Bartlett & to Speaker [John] Langdon. Copy of Letters Sent to President Weare, Col Langdon and Col. Bartlett, Mar. 17. 1780. Communica tion respecting Temple.” To his letter to Josiah Bartlett, however, Peabody added the following final paragraph: “The 200,000 Dollars Charged to the State July 1778 was without foundation. Shall give the particulars—the mistake is rectified.” Bartlett Papers, NhD. Samuel Holten’s Diary March 18 [1780] Saturday. Congress agreed to call in all the paper currency by taxes. I wrote to General Lincoln. 1 MS (MDaAr). 1 Not found. William Churchill Houston to the New Jersey General Assembly Sir, Philada 18 March 1780 I have the Honour to enclose you the Proceedings of a General Court-martial, held for the Trial of Major General Benedict Arnold on various Charges exhibited against him by the President and Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania. 1 I could obtain but a single Copy otherwise I should have sent one for each House. I must take the Liberty here to repeat what I have a few Minutes ago requested in a hasty Letter, 2 that the Legislature will sit so long as to attend to the Subject of the Resolutions of to-day which that Letter encloses; and shall hope to be allowed to lay before them my Thoughts upon those Resolutions as soon as I have Time to commit them to Paper. I am, Sir, with much respect, your obedt. and very hble sevt, William Ch. Houston
