March 19, 1780 517 RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). Addressed: “His Exly the Presidt of the Council, and the Honble the Speaker of the Assembly, New Jersey.” ' For Arnold's court-martial and the published Proceedings that Houston enclosed, see Samuel Huntington to Washington, March 11, 1780, note 4. 2 Not found, but the “Resolutions of to-day” enclosed in it were undoubtedly the fiscal plan that was sent in the letter of Samuel Huntington to the States, March 20, 1780. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia March 19. 1780 I do myself the honour to transmit your Excellency the enclosed Intelligence No 1 & No 2 this Moment received from Charles Town South Carolina. 1 And have the honour to be, with the highest respect, your Excellency’s hble servt, Sam. Huntington RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 These consisted of: “No. 1,” an extract from Benjamin Lincoln’s February 22 letter to Congress; and “No. 2,” a February 25 letter identified by its endorsement— "The express who brings this Says it is an Extract Taken from the late President Laurens in Charles Town which he saw Copied off.” Both reported the recent arrival of a large British expedition under the command of Sir Henry Clinton just south of Charlestown. Washington Papers, DLC. Lincoln’s letter is in PCC, item 158, fols. 325 30. It was read in Congress with two earlier ones from the general on March 20. JCC, 16:269. John Mathews to Benjamin Lincoln Dear sir Philadelphia March 19th 1780 The Committee have nothing new to communicate, 1 therefore do not write by this opportunity. I most anxiously wait for the arrival of Mr. Kinloch, 2 or some Express, to get some information of your situation, and the move ments of the enemy, for we have received no account, from your quarter since the 29th Jany. announcing the appearance of the enemy off our coast. 3 We have had a variety of reports here respecting them, but on which not the least dependence is to be placed. I think it cannot be many days longer before we must hear from you. I should take it as a particular favour if you could contrive to get the inclosed letter to Miss Wragg. 4 It is of great importance to me, 8c respects my private affairs, The management of which, in the situa tion the Country is, must devolve entirely on her, as every man, who had any concern in them must either be in the field, or probably in a much worse situation. Mr. John Allen Walter, of Collo. Harry’s light horse, I believe, can give you the best information where she is. If you cannot get it safe to her, I must trouble you to inclose it, 8c return it to me again.
