520 March 20, 1780 old, that the old may be drawn out of circulation as Soon as possible to prevent further imposition by counterfeits and if there Should be a Scarcity of money people might be allowed to pay their rates in provisions to be delivered at the magazines at the prices fixed by Congress. The New Bills will be prepared and forwarded to the States as Soon As possible. We hear that the Honorable Assembly have ordered a New Emis sion of Bills. 2 We beg leave to Submit to Your Excellency whether it will not be expedient to Stop the issuing of them, and immediately adopt the plan recommended by Congress. We Should be Sorry to have that fail of the good effects expected from it by any Act or omission on the part of the States. The Same proportions are kept up in the present requisitions as in the resolution of the 7th of October last, Wherein Connecticut is rated much too high, but hope that wont prevent her compliance at least to the amount of her quota, which would be about one twelfth part, in case none of the States were disabled by the events of the war from raising their quotas. Perhaps her quota in present circumstances, would be more than one eleventh part of the whole—repeated Assur ances have been given by Congress that those States which do more than their proportion Shall be equitably compensated. There is a report before Congress for fixing the rate in Specie at which the loan office certificates Shall be paid. 3 It is expected that a new regulation of the Quarter Master’s and other Staff departments will Soon be established on the most Eco nomical plans whereby much expence will be Saved. They will be Accommodated to the late regulation of making the purchases by the States. The prices of the Specific Articles to be furnished by the States were estimated at about 50 per cent above the prices in 1774. They include all expences of purchasing and delivering them into the Magazines. The motives for Adopting that measure were, the rendering the Supplies more certain and equable among the States, and to prevent frauds & abuses. And the aid of the States in procur ing Supplies was found to be absolutely necessary. By a Letter from General Lincoln of the 22d Ultimo we are informed that part of the British forces that left New York were Landed on St Johns, & James’s Islands, near Charles town the Num bers not Assertained, but he thinks there is a good prospect of mak ing a Successful opposition to them. 4 Mr. Lawrence expected to Sail for Europe the 26th of Feby. We are, with the greatest respect, your Excellency’s humble Servants, Roger Sherman Oliver Ellsworth RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Sherman, and signed by Sherman and Ellsworth. 1 See the following entry.
