524 March 20, 1780 James Madison to James Madison, Sr. Philadelphia Monday March 20th. 1780. The extreme badness of the roads and frequency of rains ren dered my journey so slow that I did not reach this place till Saturday last. 1 The only public intelligence I have to communicate is that the great and progressive depreciation of the paper currency had intro duced such disorder and perplexity into public affairs for the pres ent and threatened to load the United States with such an intolerable burden of debt, that Congress have thought it expedient to convert the 200,000,000 of Dollars now in circulation into a real debt of 5,000,000 by establishing the exchange at 40 for 1. And taxes for calling it in during the ensuing year, are to be payable at the option of the people in specie or paper according to that difference. In order to carry on public measures in future money is to be emitted under the combined faith of Congress and the several States, secured on permanent and specific funds to be- provided by the latter. This scheme was finally resolved on on Saturday last. 2 It has not yet been printed but will be immediately. I shall transmit a copy to you by the first opportunity. The little time I have been here makes it impossi ble for me to enter into a particular delineation of it. It will probably create great proplexity and complaints in many private transactions. Congress have recommended to the States to repeal their tender laws, and to take measures for preventing injustice as much as possible. It is probable that in the case of loans to the public, the state of depreciation at the time they were made will be the rule of payment, but nothing is yet decided on that point. I expect to be more at leisure to write fully by next post. Yrs. &c. &c. James Madison Junr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:3. 1 Madison, who had been elected to Congress December 14, 1779, presented his credentials this day. JCC, 16:268. 2 See Samuel Huntington to the States, this date. For a lengthy essay that Madison had recently written on the general subject of “Money,” which he was apparently prompted to draft as a result of his election to Congress, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 1:302-10. Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council Sir, Philadelphia 20th March 1780 Since the Receipt of your Letter of Febry. 9th the Attention of Congress has been so engaged with the Affairs of the Army & Finance, as to preclude an Opportunity of making any propositions respecting the Expenditures of the State in the Penobscot Expedition,
