March 20, 1780 525 but We hope this Business will not be much longer delayed. 1 The Resolution mentioned in your Letter would be useful on this Occasion, & not being able to find it in the Journals, after the most careful Examination thereof, We are under the necessity of request ing You to point it out. We are nevertheless convinced of the Justice of the Claim, & shall prefer it to Congress by the earliest Oppertunity, being sir with great Respect your most obedt. & very humble Servts. E Gerry James Lovell S. Holten Geo. Partridge RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by Gerry, and signed by Gerry, Holten, Lovell, and Partridge. Addressed: “Hona. Jeremiah Powell. Esqr. president of the Council of Massa. Bay.” Endorsed: ‘‘In Council April 8, 1780. Read & sent down with Several Papers Accompanying. John Avery, D Scy.” 1 For Massachusetts’ application for Continental reimbursement of expenses for the Penobscot Bay expedition, see James Lovell to Samuel Adams, April 9; and Samuel Huntington to the Massachusetts Council, April 14, 1780. William Shippen, Sr., to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir, Philada. March 20h 1780. 1 I reced your Favor of the 19th Feby inclosing a Note for Tho Paine Clerk of our Assembly wch I delivered. We hear from Carolina that the Troops to the amount of 8000 are arrived & Landed, some on Johns Island, some on James’s Island & some elsewhere, a number of their Ships much shattered, some 3 foundered, all their Horses lost. That one 64 Gun Ship & 2 or 3 smaller appear off the harbour. Sulivan says that if they delay their motion 2 or 3 Weeks he hopes to be prepared for them, that he has expected the Virginia Troops 18 Months not arrived the 24th Feby. Mr Laurens was to sail for Statia the next day. The Vessel wch John Adams sailed in arrived at Corunna in 18 Days. I wish I could inform you of a prospect of an honorable Peace but I guess the fluctuating state of our Finances will encourage our obstinate Foes to struggle hard to prolong the war, by the inclosed imperfect sketch of our present System passed yester day you’l see how unequal we are to the work. The Credit of our Money is so low that it is absolutely necessary to attempt something. If I have the pleasure to see your Sons in Philada. on their way to Virginia I shall observe your directions. I have wrote you several times by the Post & directed agreably to your advice but I dont find you have reced any of my Letters. 2 Inclosed is a Letter from D Scudder, Young Madison one of your Delegates came into Congress yesterday. I cant find any good Sonchong Tea but have bot you one pound very fine Hyson at a Guinea but how to send it I know not. Best Compts to Mrs. Lee & Famy. W. Shippen
