March 21, 1780 527 Samuel Livermore to Meshech Weare Dear sir Philadelphia March 21st. 1780. Our plan of Finance has at length passed the Congress; but not just as I expected. As it is lengthy & you will have it officially trans mitted 1 I need not copy it. It keeps up the idea of forty for one; but as it proposes sinking the whole paper Currency in six years, I fear the burthen will prove too great; it depends on the several states adopting the plan by Acts of Assembly for that purpose, which it is thot will not be complid with. Vermont business hangs by the eyelids, Masa. Bay not ready, I am tired of waiting & must set out as soon as travelling will permit. 2 The Carolina News is in the enclosed papers to the 25th Feb. I am anxious for the event. However we are in high spirits, as the attack is far short of what the enemy intended. Genl Lincoln I hope will be able to keep the ground. I am Your most obedient humble servant. Samuel Livermore RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See Samuel Huntington to the States, March 20, 1780. 2 Livermore, whose delegate credentials had expired the last day of February, left Philadelphia on April 8. Samuel Holten’s Diary, April 8, 1780. MDaAr. James Lovell to Abigail Adams March 21st. 1780 I most sincerely rejoice with you 1 on the safe Arrival of Mr. Adams in Spain after so short a Passage tho’ attended with some Hardships. In addition to the News in the Prints I venture, upon some confi dential assurances from the worthy Genl. Lincoln, to excite your Hopes as to our affairs in that Quarter. It is recommended to redeem the continental Currency at 40 for 1 and to model the Tender Laws equitably. It is a Thing of uncertain Event and the Balance of Blessings and Cursings consequent cannot shortly be fixed. It is one of those Decisions about which much very much may and will be said on both sides. I believe that most of those who said nay here on the Determination were glad it was carried against them. I cannot see how the Continent can suppose that Con gress has any separate Interest to guide their Determination on this inportant Point. Yrs. affly., J Lovell RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 3:314. 1 The recipient of this letter is incorrectly identified as John Adams in Burnett, Letters, 5:85.
