March 23, 1780 537 lina Brigade of Continental troops had arived—& that the Virginia line were met on their march tho’ at the unexpected distance of four hundred miles. 4 We have the honor to be, with the highest respect, your Excel lency’s most obedt. humbl. Servants, Roger Sherman Oliv Ellsworth RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Ellsworth, and signed by Ellsworth and Sherman. 1 Jonathan Trumbull’s March 10 letter to Congress requesting a review of Connecti cut’s troop quota and the retention of Jesse Brown as a postrider, was read in Con gress on March 22. See JCC, 16:275; and PCC, item 66, 2:170-71. His letter of the same date to the Connecticut delegates is in Trumbull, Papers (MHS Colls.), 3:17-19. 2 Governor Trumbull’s request to retain Brown as an express had been referred to the Post Office Committee. The committee’s report recommending adoption of the governor’s request is in the hand of Roger Sherman. See JCC, 16:275, 282-83; and PCC, item 20, 1:259-60. 3 Francis Kinloch, who took his seat in Congress on March 25. See JCC, 16:285; and John Mathews to George Washington, March 24, 1780. 4 Ellsworth apparently sent this same information to another Connecticut corre spondent at about this time, since a similar paragraph was printed in the Connecticut Courant and the Weekly Intelligencer on April 4 with additional “Extracts of Letters from an Hon. Member of Congress to a Gentleman in this Town [Hartford], dated 22d and 24th March.” “No very late letters, from Europe—Charlestown was safe the 25th of February: the enemy were approaching it from island to island, and had got upon James’s Island, which is the nearest, and within half a league of the town. The garrison were in good spirits; and the General trusted, if the aid he had called for from the country season ably came in; to make effectual defence. “It appears from deserters and prisoners, that the enemy suffered exceedingly going from New-York; several of their ships foundered, many were damaged, some taken, and some missing; and they have scarce a horse left for their artillery or any other purpose. “By a Delegate just arrived from South Carolina we learn that Charlestown was safe the 1st instant, and the enemy remained in the same situation as on the 25th of February and motionless. The North-Carolina Brigade of Continental troops had arrived: The Virginia Line were also on the march, though at so great a distance that they cant have arrived yet.” The following “Extract of a letter from an Hon. Member of Congress from this State, dated Philadelphia, March 22d, 1780” also appeared in the same issue of the Courant, but it was probably the work of Samuel Huntington or Roger Sherman. “The measures taken by the Assembly of our State, I think, are wise and judicious, and founded on the same principles as the plan adopted by Congress, which was a considerable time under consideration before it was compleated; and if it is adopted by the several States, I make no doubt, but that it will relieve us from all the evils of a depreciating currency in future .... It gives me great pleasure to see the coincidence of councils in Congress, and the State I have the honor to represent.” Oliver Ellsworth to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia, March 23, 1780 Permit me as a private citizen to express my wishes that the late resolutions of Congress on the subject of finance, may meet your
