March 23, 1780 539 least respecting the bills already forwarded to Connecticut—of which you will have notice as soon as may be. A Petition from sundry Creditors of your late Department, with the sanction of our assembly is come forward & will be immediately laid before Congress & I hope such measures will be taken thereon as to right & justice appertain. Some late resolutions have passed Congress respecting the cur rency, which I have enclosed to Mr. Lyman 3 —as they are lengthy & I have not time to copy them have desired him to furnish you with the perusal of them. Something farther is under consideration respect ing the Loans— the result of which I will send you as soon as it shall be ready for publication. I am, Dear Sir, with much respect & Esteem, your obed. huml Sevt. Oliver Ellsworth 4 [P.S.] Exchange at abt. 60. RC (DSoC). 1 In the absence of Wadsworth’s letter, we can only conjecture that Wadsworth had recommended Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., as secretary to the American minister in Paris. Trumbull was later nominated as a special envoy to France on December 9, 1780, but John Laurens was unanimously elected to the post. JCC, 18:1138, 1141. 2 Col. Ephraim Blaine had replaced Wadsworth as commissary general of pur chases in December 1779. 3 Ellsworth’s letter to Samuel Lyman has not been found. The resolutions enclosed were doubtless the landmark fiscal resolves of March 18. 4 Ellsworth also wrote a brief note this day to his wife, Abigail, discussing the “mighty smart” look of his new blue velvet breeches. Ellsworth Papers, CtHi. Samuel Huntington to Certain States and Continental Officers Sir, Philadelphia March 23. 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 21st Instant, Recommending to the governments of the several States to sus pend making new Appointments of Officers in the Regiments of their respective Lines except where the Commander in Chief, or Commanding Officer in the southern Department shall deem such Appointment indispensibly necessary. The Design of this Act is to aid the Intentions of Congress in retrenching the supernumerary Officers as soon as Circumstances will admit without doing Injury or Injustice to the Officers. 1 By the Act of Congress of this Day which is also enclosed, your Excellency will observe Jesse Brown is to be continued an Express rider, and I presume Notice will be given whenever it is thought proper he should be discharged from that Service. 2 I have the honour to be &c, S.H.
