540 March 23, 1780 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). Addressed: “Governor Trumbull. N.B. The same (excepting the last paragraph) to New York, Rhode Island, Massachusets Bay, New Hampshire, General Washington & Genl Lincoln.” Huntington also sent the first two paragraphs of this letter to New Jersey governor William Livingston. Livingston Papers, NN. 'JCC, 16:272-73. 2 See Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, this date, note 2. Charles Thomson to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philada. March 23 1780 I am honoured with your letter of the 10th instant accompanied with sundry state papers for which I thank you and shall have them deposited in the office. 1 My view is to have as compleat a collection of the public papers of every state as I can deposited here, Where the delegates from the several states may have access to them And as the governments are new and doubtless many experiments must be made in legislation before they can reach perfection, I would wish to have the first essays as well as those perfected by experience. The former may to a legislator in another state be almost as useful as the latter. They may serve as landmarks & teach him the folly of repeat ing or attempting a similar law in his own state, & thus by the experi ence of one a benefit may redound to all. I now enclose you the Journal of Congress for Feby last and am, with due respect, Your excellency’s most obedient humble Servt, Cha Thomson RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 For Trumbull’s March 10 letter to Thomson, enclosing “a Copy of the Original Confederation of the first Inhabitants of this State, dated in 1638 . . ., the Charter of King Charles the second . . . Dated in 1662 . . ., and the Act approving the Declaration of the Independance of these United States, passd in October 1776,” see PCC, item 66, 2:127-55. For the secretary’s request for these and other state papers, see Thom son to the States, November 20, 1779. Samuel Holten to Joseph Palmer Dear Sir, Philadelphia March 24th 1780. 1 I have been favored with yours of the 17th ulto. with the enclo sures one of which I have forwarded (without charge) to Mr. Hud son & the other I shall inclose, as Mr. Cranch has left this City. The deranged state of our Finances & want of money in the public Treasury has greatly embarrassed our affairs, & for some time past engaged (nearly) all the Attention of congress, but a few days since they went into a number of resolutions respecting the same, and as they may not come to hand before this, I will endeavor to give you some of the outlines (vizt.) 2
