March 24, 1780 541 I am wholely unacquainted, “of the price of Epsom salts,” but will make some inquiry as I have oppertunity (if it should not slip my memory) & let you know. By the last account from Genl Lincoln, I think it is likely that the enemy have attacked Charlestown before this time but I hope sir Harry will have reason to repent of this undertaking. I am, my dear Sir, with great respect, your most obedient FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Congress did not convene this day. As Holten explained in his diary entry for March 23: “Congress have adjourned to Saturday, tomorrow is good Friday.” MDaAr. 2 Holten left several lines blank at this point in the FC. Samuel Holten to James Sullivan Dear Sir, 1 Philada. March 24th 1780. I have been favored with yours of the 23d ulto. It was delivered me in Congress at the very moment we were debating about taking up the business to which it refers, 2 and it strengthened me in my opinion upon finding it so exactly agreed with yours and I had not only given it as my Judgment, but that I believed it to be the mind of my constituents; The resolutions of Congress that passed in Sepr. last respecting this affair 3 wou’d have been far from being unani mous (in my opinion) if it had not been expected that these people wou’d have submitted the whole matter to Congress, but they have absolutely refused so far as respects their being an independant state. Congress have ownly determined as yet that the affair be not taken up ’till nine states are present inclusive of the states supposed to be intended and you may be assured that when it shall again come before Congress, it will engage all my attention, & I believe I may venture to say the same of Congress. The deranged state of our Finances & want of money in the public Treasury has greatly embarrassed our affairs, & for some time past engaged (nearly) all the attention of Congress but a few days since they came into a number of resolutions respecting the same, which I expect will be sent forward by the bearer of this, & to which I beg leave to refer you. It gives me some concern about our new pro posed constitution when I consider how very difficult it must be to git two thirds of the people to like any one form. I wou’d make some remarks upon the report of the come, did I not consider it as too late, supposing it has passed in convention with many alterations. By the last accounts from Genl. Lincoln, I think it is likely that the enemy have attacked Charlestown before this time, but I hope sir Harry will have reason to repent of this undertaking. I am, my dear Sir, with great respect, your most obedient.
