550 March 28, 1780 The delegates from Mastts. agreeable to their instructions made a full representation to Congress respecting the Penobscot affair & proposed Several resolutions, which after some consideration were committed, & it is my opinion the reasonable expences of that expe dition will be paid by Congress. The Hone. Mr. Forbes deed, on Saturday last. I am, my dear Sir, with sincere respect, your most obedient FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Holten undoubtedly enclosed a copy of the “Act for funding and redeeming the Bills of Credit of the United States of America, . . . founded on the Act of Congress of the 18th instant,” which the Pennsylvania Assembly had ordered printed before its second reading, and which appeared in the March 25 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet and also circulated as a handbill. Samuel Holten to William Gordon My dear Sir. Philadelphia March 28th. 1780. When I did myself the pleasure of addressing you last, 1 I had tho’ts of leaving Congress soon after, & I think mentioned that as my last epistle, but the season wou’d not admit of it & so great are rhy present engagements that it is still uncertain when I shall have the opportunity of paying you my personal respects & I consider myself as under obligation for past favors ’tho’ I am not behind in numbers. When we engaged in this War with Britain, what wou’d be our greatest difficulty we shou’d have to encounter was unknown to the best politicians, but from experience we find that the depreciation of our currency is attended with very distressing consequences, by deranging our Finances & greatly embarrassing the public affairs, & for some time past engaged (nearly) all the attention of Congress, but about a week since they came into a number of resolutions respecting the same, which I suppose will come to hand before this, and it gives me some satisfaction to hear that they are generally approved of by the good people here, and I conclude my virtuous countrymen in New England will not be wanting in their exertions to carry the same into effect. By the last accounts from Genl. Lincoln, I think it is likely that the enemy have attacked Charlestown before this time, but I hope Sir Harry will have cause to repent of this undertaking. I expect we must have another Campaign & much greater exertions (I appre hend) are necessary than the people in general are Sensible of. I am, Sir, with Sincere respect your most obedient. FC (PPIn). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 See Holten to Gordon, December 7, 1779.
