552 March 28, 1780 James Lovell to Samuel Adams Dear Sir March 28th. 1780 By your Favor of the 5th received Yesterday I find a very unpleas ing Circumstance to excuse your long Silence: I had attributed it altogether to public Occupations. 1 I hope that your Health is fully restored by this Time. We have had a very trying Winter for the Constitution of any one advanced to the Afternoon of Life even if his Body was not like yours exposed to the natural Effects of a daily intense Application of your Mind to very important and intricate State Subjects. We are really in Pain here continually about Supplies of every Kind. No Man can tell what will be the Event of the Measures recom mended to the States. It lays with the Farmer to say whether he will at any Rate furnish the Army. He may see now that his Labors are not mortgaged for Generations to make Silver & Gold of That which by general Consent has been reduced to meer Rags a second Time. The whole daily Allowance which you mention will not here pur chase two Pounds of Mutton, 2 the Price of that Article being from 13 to 15 Dollars Per lb. Indeed, Sir, I am totally unable to go on at this Rate. For if I could do without any Cloathing myself will my whole Income give Food alone to my Dependents? Yet they look for Rai ment also from my Labors. You will have Accounts from your military Officers in regard to the Wants of the Army. Transportation is the grand Difficulty at this Period. Our public Horses have been starved for Want of Forage tho’ there has been given to that Department almost Paper enough to litter the whole Number. By Mr. Partridge I shall send my Accounts, his Expenditures being a just Test of mine lately; and as to former Time the moderate Footing will be sufficent. I hope to have another and better Opportunity of writing this Week by Mr. Adams Express from Doctr. Foster. The Southern Post is not in, but Col. Lee was lately well & sent his regards to you. Yr. affectionate humble Servant, James Lovell [P.S.] The Paragraph in the Paper respectg. Clinton’s mishaps is from good Authority though Genl. W n desired it might not be authenticated here in print. 3 RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 In his March 5 letter to Lovell, Adams had explained that he had been spending his time “partly in my sick Chamber and partly in our Convention for forming a Constitution.” Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4:180-81. 2 In the same letter, Adams informed Lovell that he had been allowed “Twenty five Dollars per Day and Expenses” for his service as a delegate in 1779, so “that you may judge whether the Allowance for Time & Service is raisd in Proportion to other things.” Ibid.
