554 March 29, 1780 which I have the honor to represent in Congress, had passed a resolve at their Session held on the fourth Monday of last month, for raising eight hundred and ten men including those already raised in Col Greene’s and Col. Angel’s regiments, that he had at the request of the Genl. Assembly written to your excellency, desiring that one of those regiments might be stationed in the State, the ensueing campaign, and expressing his wishes that, if I should find it necessary, I would also address you on this occasion. 1 I know not what arguments he hath urged on this subject; if I did I am sensible that I could not add a new one, nor enforce what he hath said; but as I esteem his desires as commands, your excellency will give me leave to suggest such reasons as voluntarily offer them selves to my mind. These are—the exhausted and exposed state of our republic, the vigorous exertions it is making to complete its continental battalions which will draw off a large number of its men, and the great injury and expense which must accrue from keeping up a body of militia for its protection and defence. These considera tions are obvious and appear to me to be important. I hope your Excellency will view them in the same light, and be induced to com ply with the request of the legislature; in expectation whereof and with the highest sentiments of respect, I am, Yr Excellency’s most obedt. Servt. William Ellery P.S. Your Excellency hath doubtless heard of Mr. Adams’s arrival in Spain. He writes from thence, that the Court of Madrid were disposed to receive a minister from these States to acknowledge our independency and enter into treaties with us. W.E. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 Gov. William Greene’s March 8 letter to Ellery, in which he explained that he was appealing to Washington to station a regiment of Rhode Island troops in the state for its defense, is in Staples, Rhode Island, p. 276. His letter of the same date to Washing ton is in the Washington Papers, DLC. In his responses to Greene and Ellery, Washington avoided rejecting their appeals directly but strongly hinted “the improbability” of being able to comply with their request. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:172-73, 241-42. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir Philadelphia March 29. 1780 I have been honoured with your Excellency’s Favours of the 6th, 8th, 17th, 20th, 23d, 26th & 27th Instant—and laid them before Congress. 1 Have received no later Intelligence from the southern Army than that which you was pleased to communicate. Your Excellency will herewith receive a printed Copy of the Pro ceeding of the Court Martial on the Trial of Majr Genl Arnold 2 and
