556 March 31, 1780 Excellency.” Washington immediately transmitted the necessary passport to the board. See JCC, 15:1421, 1424; Board of War to Washington, March 30, and Livingston to Washington and Washington to Livingston, April 3, in the Washington Papers, DLC; and Washington to the Board of War, April 3, 1780, Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:212-13, especially note 60. Elbridge Gerry to Benjamin Lincoln My dear sir, Philadelphia 31 March 1780 Being informed late this Evening, that General Duportail is to set off in the Morning for Charlestown, I shall improve the Oppertunity of acknowledging your agreable Favour of the 22d Jany, 1 & of trans mitting You the latest Intelligence in this Quarter: this is principally contained in the papers inclosed, which also shew the Measures taken by Congress relative to Finance. You have undoubtedly seen the publications respecting the Uneasiness of Ireland, which We shall hope will increase; altho Lord North has proposed to the brit- ish parliament a plan of Accommodation, which in their opinion a few Years past would not have consisted with the Honor & Dignity of that august Assembly: but pride often precedes Humility. I shall put up the Journals from the Date of those transmitted by Major Rice, & send them by the General, if the package is not too bulky. I have lately received a Letter from our Friend Mr John Adams, 2 who after a very short but perilous passage arrived at Ferrol. The french Frigate Le Sensible in which he was passenger, was so leaky, that every person on board was under the Necessity of taking his Turn at the pumps four Times a Day, & She made seven feet of Water in the Hold in an hour after her Arrival. Mr Adams men tions nothing in particular, excepting the friendly Reception which he had met with from the Spanish officers, & their warm Attach ment to the Cause of America. By Letters from the Massachusetts I learn that the Convention have agreed to a Constitution which is to be sent to the Towns & Districts for their Approbation. All Eyes are at present towards Charlestown & I am very happy to inform You, that my Friend General Lincoln has the full Confidence of his Countrymen(as well Citizens as Soldiers) in this Quarter; & We have the pleasure of hearing that he is not less esteemed by our Brethren at the southward. You have hinted something of your being blamed for not writing, but I can assure You that it was not by Congress, at least whilst I have been in it or I should have informed You thereof. I Shall not suggest any thing relative to your Operations, because I am not a Soldier; nor informed of your Circumstances: & I am fully persuaded that every Measure will be taken to defend the City & secure a Retreat if necessary. That Heavens Blessings may attend You, & crown you with Success & immortal Honor is the most ardent Wish of Dear sir Your affectionate Friend & most hum ser. E. Gerry
