Acknowledgments xi and Records Management, New Hampshire Historical Society, New Jersey Historical Society, Newport Historical Society, New-York Historical Society, New York Public Library, New York State Library, North Carolina State Department of Archives and History, University of North Carolina, Oswego County Historical Society, Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission, Historical Society of Pennsyl vania, University of Pennsylvania, Library Company of Philadelphia, Princeton University, Rhode Island Historical Society, Rhode Island State Archives, Rosenbach Foundation, Rutgers University, South Carolina Historical Society, Southern Illinois University, Virginia Historical Society, Virginia State Library, University of Virginia, Western Reserve Historical Society, College of William and Mary, The Royal Archives (Windsor Castle), Yale University, and Histori cal Society of York County. And in addition we express our thanks and appreciation to the following persons: Mr. Sol Feinstone, Mr. Creighton C. Hart, Mr. Henry Laurens, Mr. John F. Reed, Mrs. Elsie O. Sang and Mr. Philip D. Sang, Capt. J. G. M. Stone, and Mr. Robert J. Sudderth, Jr. This work has benefitted not only from Edmund C. Burnett’s path finding 8-volume edition of Letters of Members of the Continental Congress but also from the generous cooperation of the editors of several other documentary publications with a common focus on the revolutionary era. From them the Library has borrowed heavily and to them it owes a debt it can never adequately acknowledge. It is a pleasure to give special thanks to the editors of the papers of John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, Henry Laurens, James Madison, and George Washington. Finally, we owe thanks to the historians who have served on the Advisory Committee on the Li brary’s American Revolution Bicentennial Program, and especially to Mr. Julian P. Boyd, Mr. Lyman H. Butterfield, and Mr. Merrill Jensen, who generously acted as an advisory committee for the Letters project. Paul H. Smith Historical Publications Office Manuscript Division
