Illustrations xxvii that British peace efforts might find a sympathetic audience even among Americans who had hitherto supported the revolutionary cause. Congress therefore authorized the publication of this address to remind Americans of past British tyranny and present British barbarity and to suggest that the conclusion of an alliance between the United States and France made a final patriot victory inevitable. In order to add force to this address Congress urged that it be read “after divine service” in all “churches and chapels, and other places of religious worship” throughout the country. Although no manu script copy of the address is now known to exist, Jared Sparks saw a draft of it in Gouverneur Morris’ hand over a century and a half ago, and the address as amended and approved by Congress bears the unmistakable imprint of Morris’ rhetorical style. From the Miscellaneous Papers of the Continental Congress, National Archives and Records Service. Horatio Gates 673 Gates’ controversial career as a Continental officer often made him the focus of congressional attention. Born of a humble family in England, Gates entered the British army and served in America during the French and Indian War, but he subsequently left the army, moved to Virginia in 1772, and acquired a plantation. After the outbreak of hostilities between America and Britain his military experience stood him in good stead, as Congress appointed him ad jutant general of the Continental Army in 1775. The following year he was promoted to major general and assigned to the northern military department. There Gates became involved in a bitter com mand dispute with Gen. Philip Schuyler that absorbed much of Congress’ attention and was not resolved until Gates finally replaced Schuyler during Burgoyne’s invasion from Canada in August 1777. Gates’ ensuing victory at Saratoga raised his prestige to its greatest height, which, coinciding as it did with disillusionment over the loss of Philadelphia, led to fears by Washington and his supporters that a conspiracy was afoot to make Gates commander in chief. Although most scholars now believe that the opposition to Washington and the general frustration that was voiced in 1777-78 did not constitute a conspiracy against him, Gates’ close relations with several of Wash ington’s opponents tarnished his prestige. After serving as president of the newly reorganized Board of War in 1777-78, Gates returned to the field to take command of the northern and eastern military departments and served at Boston in 1778-79. When the British launched successful attacks on Georgia and South Carolina in 1780 he was named commander of the southern military department, but
