February 3, 1778 15 RC (DNA: PCC, item 33). Written by Joseph Reed and signed by Reed, Dana, Folsom, Harvie, and Morris. Endorsed by Charles Thomson: “Letter from Commee. at Camp, Feby 3. 1778, read 16.” 1 For the background of this proposal, which originated in a January 2 letter from the Pennsylvania legislature to Congress, see Jonathan Bayard Smith to Timothy Matlack, January 5, 1778, note. The committee’s recommendation against the proposal ended Congress’ consideration of an attack on Philadelphia. See also Joseph Reed to Thomas Wharton, February 1, 1778. William Duer to Gouverneur Morris Dear sir, York Town Feby. 3d. 1777 [i.e. 1778] Mr. George Irwin is so obliging as to forward to you at my Request the Cloth purchas’d by the Delegates of the State of New York for the Use of the New York Troops. You will be kind enough to take the Receipts of the Colonels or Comng. Officers of Regiments to whom the Cloth is deliverd specifying the Quantity by them received. As I am in a hurry to proceed to the Northward 1 having been detaind here much longer than I expected, I beleive I shall not be able to call upon you at Camp on my way homewards. I am very Affectionately Yours, Wm. Duer [P.S.] There has been thirty five Yards taken out of the Quantity Specified in a former Letter from the Delegates to the Cols. Cortlandt and Livingston, 2 which being deducted will leave the Number of Yards now sent. W. D. RC (NNC). 1 Duer was planning to join Lafayette’s Canadian expedition as a volunteer, but he soon changed his mind after learning of some uncomplimentary remarks the marquis had made about him. See Duer to Francis Lightfoot Lee, February 14, 1778. 2 This letter has not been found, but see Francis Lewis’s first letter to the New York Convention of January 5, 1778. Cornelius Harnett to Richard Caswell Feb. 3. [1778] Being disappointed in sending this forward at the time expected, I cannot help mentioning to Your Excellency very Shortly a Matter which hangs heavy at my heart. Whilst all the States are fortifying every Creek & Inlet where Vessels can possibly enter, I fear Our State have Neglected Cape Lookout Bay &: Cape Fear River. The Latter is such a harbour, as may at all times be safe for the Enemy to Enter, & ravage the Country at will more especially at this time, when all our Continental Troops are at the distance of 600 Miles from that place.
