16 February 3, 1778 Cape Look Out is one of the finest Harbours on the American Coast, & would be a noble Asylum for the Continental and Private Ships of war to wood & water, as also a Place of Security for Trading Vessels Chaced by the Enemy. I am distressed beyond Measure to find Our Sea Coast so much neglected, to please (I fear) a few Individuals who may be interested in the Matter. I am as befor Your Excellys. Most Ob &c &c 8cc Cornl Harnett [P.S.] I am confined to my room by the Gout, & therefore can not with that Accuracy I could wish, answer your Queres in regard to Major Genl. Pay 8cc. I shall do myself the Honor of writing you in a Short time on that head. I could wish Your Excellency would fall upon ways 8c means to procure all the Salted Pork in your State for the use of the Continental Army. Congress have every reason to believe the Army will be greatly distressed for that Article, I hope none will be Suffered to be Exported. Your Bills will be answered. RC (PHi). A continuation of Harnett to Caswell, January 31, 1778. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson Dr. Sir York Town Pensylvania Feby. 3d 1778 I wrote to you a few days ago by Coll Davis. I have not lately been favoured with any from you. For News I refer you to the Papers In closed, indeed we have very little stirring. Our Army remain as men tioned in my last, at Valey Forge. I am every day expecting Jackey here, as Mr. Mitchell has promised to send him as soon as the weather will permit. Be assured I shall be as Careful of him as I would be of my Own. I can not yet meet with a Distiller but have a prospect Of Purchas ing a Negro who I am told understands the business very well. I mentioned to you in several of my Letters that it was absolutely necessary to send on the Bills reed by you 8c drawn by Coll Kennon. I wish you may not delay it too long, you need not be afraid of my spending the Money, especially when Our Assembly have made such a Generous Allowance to their Delegates. 1 I have not the least doubt but this handsome Salary will tempt some Other Gentleman to Covet my place, 8c by that means I hope to be relieved from the most dis agreeable business I ever undertook in my whole life. I wish I was fairly out of it. I am, Dr Sir, Your real friend 8c Obed Servt, Cornl. Harnett [P.S.] You have never yet told me whether you have paid Mr Black- more the 100 Dollrs. Continental money I borrowed of him, if it is not done I beg you will immediately do it with Interest.
