18 February 3, 1778 Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear son, York Town 3d Febry 1778 I wrote to you the 28th of the expired Month by Barry. I could if time would permit write a Page full of intelligence, but Monsr le Marquis 1 will relate to you in less time & better. You will receive under the protection of the Marquis’s retinue two Camp Shirts, I am promised two more for you very soon. You never acknowledge the receipt of any article, which exposes us to loss, by the worst means, fraud. In conversation with General Gates without seeking on my side, I discovered an inclination in him to be upon friendly terms with our great & good General, it cannot be doubted but that there is the same disposition on the other side. What would I not give to see a perfect 8c happy reconciliation. 2 Talking of General Conway’s Letter which has been circulating as formerly intimated, & of which General Gates declared both his ig norance & disapprobation, I took occasion to say, if General Conway pretends sincerity in his late parallel between the Great F—— & the great W 3 he has, taking this Letter into view, been guilty of the blackest hypocrisy—if not, he is chargeable with the guilt of an un provoked sarcasm & is unpardonable. The General perfectly ac quiesced in that sentiment & added such hints as convinced me he thought highly of Conway. Shall such a Man seperate freinds or keep them asunder? It must not be. My Dear son, I pray God protect you. Henry Laurens. RC (PHi). 1 Lafayette. * For a discussion of Horatio Gates’ role in the so-called Conway Cabal against General Washington, see James Lovell to Gates, November 27, 1777, note 1. 3 Gen. Thomas Conway had sarcastically compared Washington to Frederick the Great in a December 31, 1777, letter to the commander in chief. See Laurens to John Laurens, January 8, 1778, note 12. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge 3d Febry. [1778] We cannot tell on what Credit we are at the Court of Versailles, not having received any intelligence from the Commissioners since May last. A person lately arrived Express from there delivered me a large packet which being opened presented a Charte blancke, it con tained about 40 folds of clean coarse white Paper—the Packet in tended for Congress, supposed to have been stolen 8c this Counterfeit put in its place, the person who brought it, informed me that two
