February 3, 1778 21 I have the honour to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 Washington’s January 31 letter to Laurens, in which he commended to Con gress’ attention an enclosed letter and memorial from Gen. David Forman of New Jersey, is in PCC, item 152, 5:275-76, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:411-12. In his January 1 letter and memorial to Washington, Forman had pro posed that he and his business associates would set up a saltworks in Barnegat, N.J., and sell the salt they produced to the army if Washington agreed to provide a guard of Continental soldiers for the works. PCC, item 152, 5:279-81. Although Congress read Forman’s proposal on February 2 and decided to consider it the following day, no further action on it was taken. JCC, 10:111-12. Nevertheless, Washington did station Continental soldiers at Forman’s saltworks during their construction until he was obliged to withdraw them because of New Jersey’s op position to their use for this purpose. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:148-50. ’Congress had resolved on February 2 that either Maj. Gen. Alexander Mc Dougall or Maj. Gen. de Kalb could serve with Lafayette on this expedition. JCC, 10:107. As McDougall was too ill to serve, Washington subsequently reported that de Kalb would join Lafayette. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:428. Jonathan Bayard Smith to George Bryan Dr. Sir York Town Feb. 3d. 1778 I wrote you a few days ago by J Nothing since has occurred worth your notice. The assembly of Virginia has acceeded to the Confederation. I do not think however they have treated the matter with form equal to its importance. Does it appear proper to raise so great a fabrick on the slender basis of a simple resolution of the two houses? Will not legal consequences follow from this confedera tion? I apprehend it would be not only proper, but that it would answer many valuable purposes if more form were used, at least if the articles were approved &: acceeded to by a law of each State solemnly enacted, & in which law perhaps it may be expedient to insert certain matters connected therewith. It is a question in this house, whether suits can be supported for the recovery of p[ublic?] monys in the several states. What think you of this? This may be one object in the act I speak of. Please to send the Inclosed 2 to my good woman. I am Dr. Sir, with respect yr. afft. & mhst. JBS. [P.S.] Have you any acct, yet from Sammy? RC (PHarH). 1 Not found. 1 Not found.
