22 February 4, 1778 Robert Morris to Henry Laurens Sir, Manheim Feby 4th. 1778 The Baron de Steuben so Warmly recommended by Doctr Franklin Sc Mr Deane, as well as by Monsr Roderique Hortalez & Co. having done me the honor to call in his way to Congress, 1 delivered me the enclosed letters, Copies of which I took the liberty to forward to Your Excellency some time since, but still think it necessary to send the originals least those Copies might be mislaid. Doctor Franklin writes in very strong terms of this Gentns. military experience & Talents to Mr Bache 2 now here &: at whose desire I mention it; having served so long as twenty years under so great a Master as the King of Prussia one cannot but entertain expectations that the Baron must be capable of rendering important Services to this country, otherways the Art Military is not acquirable by opportunity & experience alone. I have the honor to be Your Excellys Obedt hble servt. Robt Morris RC (DNA: PCC, item 164). 1 For an account of Steuben’s trip from Boston to York, where he arrived Febru ary 5, see John McAuley Palmer, General von Steuben (New Haven: Yale Uni versity Press, 1937), pp. 117-23. ’ Benjamin Franklin’s son-in-law, Richard Bache. John Penn to Robert Morris My dear Sir York Feby 4th. 1778 I intended before this to have seen you at Manheim, Mr. Harnet being unable to attend Congress having the Gout will make it some days before I can have that pleasure. The design of this letter is to inform you that I wish you would lay the accounts of the Secret Committee before Congress as soon as you can possibly, some members at times drop expressions on that subject that I do not like. 1 There are few men whose ability and Integrity I have so high an opinion of, as I have of yours. I do not mean to alarm you by what I have said, but only to induce you to attend to this matter more than perhaps otherwise you would, when I see you I shall be more explicit. Master Robert is very well, and quite brisk, he visits me at times, the little Fellow found a 30 dollar bill yesterday in the street, but gave it to a Girl that was looking for one of that dignity some hours after. My Compliments to Mrs. Morris Sc am with great regard & Esteem, Dear Sir, Your obt. Servt. J Penn RC (PHi).
