February G, 1778 37 but the capital Articles of Beef 8c Flour, the Quantity of which has been increased beyond the stated Ration in Lieu of Vegetables which cannot be procured. We are happy to acquaint you Sir that there seems little Doubt of obtaining an ample Supply of Flour. But the great & almost inconceivable Consumption of Flesh in a Country which never raised sufficient for the Subsistence of its own Inhab itants, has so exhausted that Space laying between the Potomack & the North River, that we cannot depend upon a farther Supply than the inclosed Paper intimates. From the Character of Col Blaine the present Deputy Commy. of Purchases 8c his Success in the Article of Flour we have Reason to believe equal Industry & Attention has been shewn to the procuring Meat & therefore must ascribe the Deficiency to a real Scarcity. From the very large Issues we had presumed that there must have been some Mistake or Fraud, a Detection of which would have en abled us to make a considerable saving, but upon a Scrutiny 8c Comparison of the Provision, Sc Brigade Returns, we do not find any considerable Difference, the large Issues being satisfactorily accounted for, in the Number of continental Troops to be fed (tho’ many of them are unfit for Duty thro Sickness & Want of Cloathing) in the Militia, & long Train of Waggon Masters, Drivers, Artificers, Clerks, Sc other Retainers of the Army. The Prisoners of War at Boston & in the several Eastn. States, Burgoynes Army, the Guards 8c Garrison there, & the Forces stationed for the Protection of Rhode Island will we apprehend amount to 12, or 14000 Men. The Troops destined for Canada, & stationed at Albany along the Mohawk & Hudsons Rivers, with those at Fish Kill, Arti ficers, Retainers 8cc may be Computed at least at 6000, making in the whole 20,000 Men to be fed with Meat from the East Side of Hudsons River. New Jersey, Pennsylvania 8c the Delaware State are exhausted. From this collective View of the Subject, & taking it for granted that the Army under General Howe is the first great Object of Attention, we are induced in the first Place to recommend a Perseverance in the Exertion of every Person to procure supplies in every State, not excepting those at a Distance firmly persuaded that after all we have done, or can do, there will be little or no Surplus. And in the second Place, to adopt every Expedient of CEconomy in the Application of them. Among which we beg Leave to suggest the immediate Disper sion of General Burgoyne, 8c all the other Prisoners, in such a Manner as to require few or no Guards, & to be easily fed from the neighbour ing Country. Other Considerations will concur to demonstrate the Propriety of this Measure. We find the Generals Mind impressed strongly with Apprehensions of Danger from keeping such a Body of Officers & Men collected after they suppose the Obligations of per sonal 8c national Honour are dissolved. 2
