38 February 6, 1778 We think every Nerve should be strained to collect such a Supply of Meat as will feed an Army of 30,000 Men early the next Spring, & are compelled by the inevitable Force of Evidence to say, that the very Existence of this Army depends for its Resources in a great Degree upon the Eastern Country, which failing it must disband, live upon free Quarter in the Country—or perish The Operations of the next Campaign so immediately depend upon some Measures of this Kind, & upon the Wisdom of Congress in forming & executing them that we beg Leave to urge it in the strongest Manner. Should we neglect any prudent Precaution in providing, or divide the Supplies & Resources of our Country into a Number of separate Channels, we very much fear our Efforts will be lanquid & ineffectual in every Quarter, while General Howe with his collected Force will ravage the middle States with Impunity. We are Sir with the greatest Respect & Regard, Your most Obedt & very Hbble Servs, Fra Dana per Order RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Written by Joseph Reed and signed by Francis Dana. Endorsed by Charles Thomson: “Mr. Dana—Letter from 6 Feby. 1778. Read 16 Feby. respecting corny of provisions & prisoners of Convention at Boston. Referred to a Comee of three. Mr. Gerry, Mr. Wolcott, Mr. Ellery who are to confer with the board of war." An undated draft of this letter, written by Gouverneur Morris, is in PCC, item 33, fols. 141-42. 1 See Committee at Camp to Laurens, February 3, 1778. ’On February 19, Congress requested the government of Massachusetts “to re move, separate and place" the Convention Army “in such manner and in such parts of the said State as may be most convenient for their subsistence and secu rity.” JCC, 10:184-85. Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear son, York Town 6th. February 1778. Your favor of the 2d Inst, came to hand late last Night. 1 As you have filled six Pages on the Negro scheme without approaching toward a Plan & Estimate—& as you have totally overlooked every other subject on which I have addressed you in several late Letters the conclusion that your whole mind is enveloped in the Cloud of that project, is unavoidable. If any good shall arise from a prosecu tion of it, the merit will be solely yours. For now, I will undertake to say there is not a Man in America of your opinion. Nay you will not be of your own opinion after a little reflection. ’Tis evident you want to raise a Regiment, as evident you have not digested a Plan. Admit ting, which I admit only for argument, you have a right to remove a Man from one state of Slavery into another—or if you please into a state of servitude which will be esteemed by him infinitely worse than
