February 7, 1778 43 Committee of Congress to George Washington Sir York Town 7th February 1778 The Committee appointed on the 27th of August 1777 to collect evidence of the State of the Army in the Northern department & also the State of the Troops, Military Stores 8c provisions at the Posts of Tyconderoga 8c Mount Independence before 8c at the times when the evacuation was determined upon, In obedience to an order of Con gress of the 5th Inst., Copy of which will be transmitted by the President, now forward to Your Excellency in one Packet, an Orderly Book & two parcels of Papers which together with the Orderly Book, contain all the evidence the Committee have been hitherto able to collect. 1 Your Excellency will be pleased to give timely Notice to the Gentle men who are appointed to assist the Judge Advocate in conducting the Trial. 2 We are, Sir, Your Excellency’s most Obedt. Servants. By desire of the Committee, Henry Laurens, one of the Members. RC (DLC). Written and signed by Henry Laurens. 1 For a discussion of this committee’s investigation of the circumstances surround ing the evacuation of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence in July 1777, see John Hancock to Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler, August 5, 1777, note. Although Congress expected Washington to proceed with a court-marital of “the general officers who were in the northern department when Ticonderoga and Mount Independence were evacuated” on the basis of the evidence collected by the commit tee, Washington pointed out in a February 27 letter to Laurens that he could not take this step because of the committee’s failure to make “any particular charges against the Officers who are to be the objects of trial.” As a result, Congress ap pointed a new committee on April 29 to correct this oversight and approved its report specifying charges against Gens. Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler on June 20. Armed with this new report, Washington convened separate court- martials that in September and October 1778 acquitted both officers of all the charges preferred against them. See, in addition to the Hancock letter cited above, JCC, 10:125, 238-39, 403, 11:593-603, 628; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:518-19. See also Laurens to Washington, April 4, 1778. 2 See Henry Laurens to William Paterson, this date. Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Adams My dear Sir York in Pennsylvania Feby 7. 1778 I cannot longer deprive myself of the Pleasure of writing a Letter to You, altho on other Occasions my Mind sometimes recoils at the Ideas of Pen 8c Paper. The Business of Congress in the winter Season is greatly increased on account of the necessary Reformation Plan 8c Preparation for a succeeding Campaign, 8c at this Time there is half the number of Members to transact it. Few can stand it as well as our
