46 February 7, 1778 trained to the Business, that our former Connections with her expose us to Dangers from Intrigues, which otherwise could not be carried into Effect, surely too much Caution cannot be used to guard against internal Dissentions. I know not the Source of the Uneasiness which We are speaking of (ir being a Friend to both parties shall for the Interest of my Country side with neither) but it would not be any Ways surprizing to me to find the Enemy at the Bottom of the Dis pute, & If they did not originate it, they will certainly promote it, unless the officers of the Army should wisely prevent it. The Disputes relative to Rank have probably had some share in exciting this Spirit, but here I must condemn fa great Part) some of the officers in oppos ing a constitutional Exercise of the Authority of Congress. A Resolu tion was after the most mature Deliberation entered into in Feby 1777 to appoint General Officers upon three principles, which Re spected their former Rank, their Merit, & the proportion of Troops raised by the States to which they severally belonged. 2 This was necessary to give satisfaction to the States, was considered as a wise & politick Measure, & I have reason to believe will be invariably pur sued at all Events. But What has been the Consequence of every appointment of General officers made by Congress? If it did not suit the whole Army, Opposition has taken place, & reduced Congress to the necessity of asserting the Rights of themselves & their Constitu ents, or consenting to give them up in a Manner that would sap the foundation of Liberty. I have ever tho’t that such an opposition has been the Effect of Inadvertance, & of not recurring to first principles, but the Injury which the civil Liberties of America derive therefrom is the same as if a premeditated Attack had been made against them. It appears to me that the Army have generally mistaken Notions of Honor, when they suppose that a foreign officer of great Experience cannot be introduced to high rank without disgracing all below him. I have as great prejudices in favour of my Countrymen as any person, perhaps on Earth; And will readily grant, that with the same Degree of Experience Sc under similar Advantages, no Officers whatever will exceed them in skill &: prowess; but can any person suppose that a Year or two in the service of the united States will qualify an officer as well as ten or twenty years service in the armies of Europe? &: has not our Cause been almost ruined, does it not at this instant suffer greatly from the want of experienced officers {to introduce Discipline into the Army)f Under these Circumstances then is it not evident that the Honor of an Officer who readily consents to promote the service of his Country by giving place to Experience, is established; whilst those who oppose this do it at the Expence of their reputation. I know of no Promotions of any Consequence that have not been made on the purest Principles, & a full conviction of Merit in the Officer appointed; but such are the prejudices of each Person in
