February 7, 1778 47 Favour of himself that it rarely happens, when he exercises a Judg ment on his own Cause, that he can divest himself of Partiality in every Respect, whence the Necessity of Decisions in all Cases of a legal or publick Nature by disinterested persons. FC (DLC photostat). 1 Henry Knox’s January 4 letter to Gerry, inquiring about the intrigues against General Washington and defending the general officers’ concern with rank, is in Austin, Life of Gerry, 1:238-41. 2 See ]CC, 7:133. Henry Laurens to Francis Dana Sir, 7th Febry 1778 I duly received & presented to Congress both your Letters signed as Chair Man of the Committee at Camp. These being at the Secre- tarys Office I cannot write the particular dates. 1 All the Commands I have received for the Committee in conse quence of those Letters are contained in two Acts which you will find in company with this. 2 Vizt—of the 5th Inst adopting a plan for carrying into immediate execution the important business of the Quarter Master General. of this date—directing the Committee “to consult with General Washington & Report to Congress the proper officers for filling the several departments of the Quarter Master General” which probably means to recommend or nominate proper persons &ca. The Secretary having sent me only one Copy of the last mentioned Act, I request you will lay this or a Copy of it before His Excellency General Washington. I am with great Regard &ca LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Francis Dana Esquire, Chairman of Com mittee from Congress, Valley Forge.” 1 See the Committee at Camp’s January 28 and 29 letters to Laurens, which dealt with the appointment of a new quartermaster general and a new commissary general of purchases for the Continental Army. 2 See JCC, 10:126-27, 138. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Sir, 7th Febry 1778 I had the honour this morning of receiving your Commands by the hands of Lt. Colo. Fleury. 1 This Gentleman notwithstanding the aid of some able advocates in Congress has failed in his pursuit of a Colonel’s Commission, you
