48 February 7, 1778 will wonder less, when you learn that the preceeding day I had strove very arduously as second to a warm recommendation from a favorite General, Gates, on behalf of Monsr. Failly, for the same Rank, with out effect. The arguments adduced by Gentlemen who have opposed these measures, are Strong & obvious. We are reforming & reducing the Number of Officers in our Army, let us wait the event, & see how our own Native Officers are to be disposed of—&: besides, there is a plan in embrio for abolishing the Class of Colonel in our Army, while the Enemy have none of that Rank in the Field. Some difficulty attended obtaining leave for Monsr. Fleury to fol low your Excellency. Congress were at first of opinion he might be more usefully employed against the Shipping in Delaware & formed a Resolve very flattering & tempting to induce him, but his persever- ence in petitioning to be sent to Canada, prevailed. 2 Monsr. Fleury strongly hopes Your Excellency will encourage him to raise & give him the Command of a distinct Corps of Canadians. 3 I am persuaded you will adopt all such measures as shall promise advantage to the Service &: there is no ground to doubt of your doing every reasonable & proper thing for the gratification & honour of Gentlemen of whom your Excellency Speaks &: writes so favorably. The King’s Speech of the 21st November which I presume you have seen at Camp, according to my reading & interpretation, is intended as harbinger to propositions. The tone will be reverbrated by Lord North’s puppets & the Scene will open. It is remarkable that on the 21st November the Capture of Phila delphia had not been announced in England—& not less remarkable, that except the Speech there is not a Single insertion of European intelligence in the Philadelphia Gazette 31st Jany. I congratulate with your Excellency on the pleasing accounts re ceived from the spot from whence you are now wandering. If fretting, or wishing, would rand 4 the Roads I would enter heartily upon so cheap a mode of scavaging. Such as they are, may God conduct you, Noble Marquis, happily successfully, through them, that when you shall think it proper, you may return & fill those tender breasts with joy which till that time will be the subjects of anxiety. I have the honour to be with great regard &ca. LB (ScHi). 'See Lafayette to Laurens, ca. February 4, 1778, in Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:279-80. 2 See ]CC, 10:127-28, 137-38. 3 Among the Laurens Papers at DLC is a memorial from Lt. Col. Fleury to Laurens, undated but obviously written about this time, in which Fleury asked the president to have “the Board of the War . . . write to general Lafayete & commend me to him for the first body of Canadians to be Raised. * “Melt”—or, in this context, to clear the roads of snow. OED.
