February 7, 1778 49 Henry Laurens to William Paterson Sir, 7th Febry 1778 By the inclosed Act of Congress of the 5th Inst, you will be in formed that the House have appointed you to assist the Judge Advo cate in conducting the intended Trial of General Officers who were in the Northern department when Tyconderoga 8c Mount Inde pendence were evacuated. I am ordered to add the request of Congress that you will attend the Court Martial, the appointment & intended sitting of which you will learn from General Washington & give your best assistance to the Judge Advocate & to assure you that Congress will make Suitable provision for your trouble 8c expences on this occasion. 1 I am with great Respect LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “William Patterson Esquire, Attorney Gen eral of the State of New Jersey.” 1 Laurens wrote substantially the same letter this day to Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant, the attorney general of Pennsylvania. PCC, item 13, fol. 164. Paterson and Sergeant, citing the press of other official business to which they had to attend, both declined to assist at this court-marital. See JCC, 10:238-39, 367; and PCC, item 59, 3:7, item 78, 20:207. For a discussion of the congressional investiga tion of the evacuation of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence during the sum mer of 1777 and the courts-martial of some of the army officers involved, see John Hancock to Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler, August 5, 1777, note; and Com mittee of Congress to Washington, this date. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, 7th Febry 1778. I had the honour of presenting in due course Your Excellency’s favours of 31st Ulto 8c 3d Inst, to Congress, 1 the former, which intro duced General Foreman’s Memorial on Salt Works remains uncon sidered 8c no day appointed. The latter was sent immediately to the Board of Treasury. I have at present no other Commands from Congress but to trans mit— An Act of the 5th Inst, adopting a plan for filling the Offices of Quarter Master general in the Army. Another Act of the same date for the trial of the General Officers who were in the Northern department when Tyconderoga 8c Mount Independence were evacuated. These Your Excellency will find under the present Cover. The 14th Inst. I transmitted an Act of Congress & divers other papers relative to Baron Stuben. 2 It may not be improper to intimate
