58 February 8, 1778 tho much Time is lost & irreparable Injury often done the publick Interests in the vain Attempt. A decided Line of Conduct on such Occasions is certainly the best, & when Facts are once established, Wisdom & Policy I think should determine us to give our Confidence & Support to that Character which is the most meritorious, without ballancing between the contending Parties or vainly trying to recon cile them. To you & me 8c a great Majority of this Country it must be perfectly immaterial by whom its Salvation is wrought out; our only Ambition being to secure its Liberties 8c rest its peaceful Citizens. Let us therefore early guard against any Designs incompatible with these Veiws from whatever Quarter they may come 8c whatever their Pretensions, for we cannot suppose our Country should not furnish Characters in this Respect like Caesars Nil actuon reputans, dum aliquid superisset agendum: Who will think no Degree of Honour attained while any remains unattained. Our former Difficulties have been surmounted by Vigour 8c Firmness. The Power 8c Strength of the Enemy 8c common Danger with a Sense of the Justice of our Cause has enabled us to struggle thro’ them. The last great Evil, clashing Interests 8c sinister Ambition only remains; that conquered, Victory is most certainly ours. But I am very clear, it requires more Wisdom 8c Prudence to combat this than all the others. And that State must be in imminent Danger, when Persons possessing its Confidence in a great Degree have lost Confidence 8c Harmony with each other. I need not say to whom I refer, when I make these Reflections, nor should I have ventured them on Paper, if I did not see that I should be detained from Congress on this Committee a considerable Time, 8c that some Measures have been lately adopted calculated in my Opinion to serve other Views than those of Patriotism 8c which Congress have sanctified without sufficiently attending to their Con sequences. I must acknowledge the Unacquaintance of the Committee with some important Facts surprized me, 8c as I suppose other Gentle men in Congress are equally uninform’d, I cannot but feel the greatest Anxiety least an unsuspicious Confidence in Men should lead us to the Brink of a Precipice before we perceive our Danger. I am not insensible that some unfavourable Events, 8c perhaps unim proved Opportunities have made their Impression on some Minds with respect to a very high Character; they have been stronger as those who entertained them have been distant from the Scene of Action; but let these be what they may, that Policy 8c Wisdom must be very defective which shews its Designs without a reasonable Prospect of accomplishing them. To permit Power to remain in any Hand upon which much depends 8c at the same Time to adopt Mea sures to thwart 8c enfeeble its Exertions I can never agree to—-either change the Hands, or support them with your greatest Weight. I observed early last Summer a growing Disgust among Characters
