February 9, 1778 63 M-Ar; PCC, item 13, fol. 181; and Revolutionary Papers, Nh-Ar. He transmitted copies of the February 3 resolve along with brief letters that he wrote on February 8 to Gov. William Livingston of New Jersey and to President Thomas Wharton of Pennsylvania; and on February 9 to Gov. George Clinton of New York, Pres. George Read of Delaware, and the marquis de Lafayette. PCC, item 13, fols. 163, 165, 179; George Read Papers, DeHi; and Charles Roberts Autograph Collection, PHC. See also Laurens to Patrick Henry, February 10, 1778. Henry Laurens to William Heath Sir- York Town 9th Feby 1778. I had the honour of receiving by Mcloski the 5 Inst, your favor of the 10th Ulto. including a late correspondence with Lieutt Gen eral Burgoyne, 1 these were immediately reported to Congress & trans mitted to the Board of War, from whence a report has not yet as cended, therefore I have no particular Commands relative to your said dispatch. I may however with propriety & pleasure intimate that your conduct towards the British General & his dependants receive the continued approbation of Congress if I may be permitted to make this conclusion from the general sentiments of Members. Inclosed with this you will receive an Act of Congress of the 3d Inst, for obliging persons who hold Commissions or appointments under Congress to qualify themselves by taking & subscribing to cer tain Oaths therein prescribed, which Sir, you will be pleased to pub lish throughout the department of the Army under Your Command. 2 I have the honour to be, With very great Regard, Sir, Your most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (MHi). /The January 13, 1778, letter to Laurens from Gen. William Heath, the Con tinental commander in Boston, dealt with "some Riotous behaviour” by a few of Gen. John Burgoyne’s troops in that city as well as problems related to the main tenance of Burgoyne’s captured army. Enclosed with it were letters of January 4 from Burgoyne to Heath and of January 10 from Heath to Burgoyne concerning the unruliness of the British prisoners mentioned above. PCC, item 57, fols. 135^16. Laurens obviously confused Heath’s January 13 letter to him with the general’s January 10 letter to Burgoyne. a In his presidential letterbook Laurens made the following summary of a letter he wrote this day to Gen. Benedict Arnold: “Acknowledged the Receipt of two Letters from him Committed to Board of War—that I had received no Command from Congress.” PCC, item 13, fol. 181. See also ]CC, 10:74, 139. Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, 9th Febry 1778. I had the honour of writing to your Excellency on the 14th Ulto. by Major Spencer & on the 3d Inst. 1 by an opportunity Mr. Webber
