February 9, 1778 65 loan office commissioner in Connecticut, informing him of “an Act of Congress of 20th December last cancelling a Warrant on the Loan Office Connecticut for 200,000 Dollars of the 16th September in favour of William Buchanan Esquire which had been returned unpaid.” PCC, item 13, fol. 178; and ]CC, 8:748, 9:1042. Furthermore, he wrote brief notes apprising Joseph Henderson and Eleazar Wales of their February 3 appointment as commissioners of accounts for the northern district and informing Moses Emerson of his February 3 appointment as com missioner of accounts at Hartford. PCC, item 13, fols. 178, 180; and JCC, 10:113-14. 3 Laurens had unintentionally offended Governor Trumbull by addressing a copy of his December 23, 1777, circular letter to the states, to the speaker of the Connecticut Assembly rather than to the governor himself. Although Trumbull did not mention his chagrin in his January 16, 1778, reply to Laurens, his son Joseph complained about the putative slight in letters to Eliphalet Dyer and James Lovell, both of whom hastened to reassure the younger Trumbull that Laurens had not meant to give offense to the governor. See PCC, item 66, 1:372-73; James Lovell to Joseph Trumbull, January 27; and Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull, February 8, 1778. Daniel Roberdeau to John Clark Dr- Si r York Town Feby. 9th. 1778 The System of the Auditors department is in the press and has undergone no material alterations, your appointment remains as it did, neither has Congress tho desirous of your services accepted the unconditional Terms of your Letter, as it was unpresidented. 1 I could wish for your own sake as well as on account of the publick wheel [weal] that you would repair to Camp and in your way call here for the System, if you do otherwise I think you will 2 repent, further argument is unnecessary as you are acquainted with my opinion at large. Mr. Clarkson has accepted his appointment in very polite terms and with thanks; “do thou likewise.” I shall expect to see you in a few days, but dont neglect giving an answer to Treasury, it is ex pected, and your acceptance will be universally agreeable. I am, Dr. Sir, Yr. most obt. friend & Servt, Daniel Roberdeau P.S. Is not your appointment of 4 dollars per day, and 3 rations for yourself and one for your horse, better than the pay of the Board of War as its members are allowed but 2000 Dollars per Annum? RC (DNA: PCC, item 41). Addressed: “Major John Clark, at Abbots Town, York County.” ’On January 10, Congress named John Clark and Matthew Clarkson “auditors to audit and settle the public accounts in the main army.” Clarkson accepted his appointment on January 28, but Clark, in the “unpresidented” letter of January 24 to which Roberdeau refers, protested the inadequacy of the salary offered and suggested instead that he be employed at a salary to be determined at a future date, after Congress had time to restudy the question of fair compensation. Roberdeau’s letter was obviously written in the belief that Clark’s stance would redound to his disadvantage if he did not reconsider it, but the latter remained
