68 February 10, 1778 I take the Liberty to Inclose the last Paper, which Contains very little except the King’s Speech to Parliament. I have nothing particu lar to mention having written to you a few days ago. I am with the Greatest respect, Your Excellencys Most Obedt & very humi Servt, Cornl. Harnett [P.S.] I beg leave to present my most respectful Compts. to the Council. Pay of a Major Genl.—166 Dol. per mo &: 15 Rations. His Aid de Camp 50 Dol. per mo. with rank of Major—no Rations. His Secry.—50 Dol. per mo. RC (CSmH). Addressed: "His Excellency Richard Caswell Esquire Governor & Commander in Chief of the State of North Carolina.” Endorsed: “Recvd. the 17 March 1778.” ‘Governor Caswell had written a letter to Harnett and John Penn on January 11, 1778, in which he mentioned having also written one to them on December 27, 1777. It is not clear if Harnett is referring to the January letter, which is in N.C. State Records, 13:7-8, or the December letter, which has not been found. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson Dear Sir York Town Pensylvania Feb. 10. 1778 I wrote you about a fortnight or perhaps a week ago and have nothing new at present to Communicate. The Army still remain in Winter Quarters at Valey Forge well Hutted, I hear their houses or Hutts are very warm & Comfortable. I send you the last Paper Containing the Kings Speech &c. Jackey is not yet sent to me. The Weather has been very bad, the Snow now very thick upon the Ground, as soon as this weather Clears up, I ex pect to have him with me agreeable to Mr. Mitchels promise. What has been done about Fortifying Cape Fear River? I fear noth ing at all. Mr. Hooper & Mr. Maclain are unpardonable in not writing to me. I have been laid up with the Gout for a week Past. I shall write you more at large in my next. I wish you would send on your Bills, not that I shall have Occasion to use them, since Our Assembly have made so generous an allowance to their Delegates. But remember I warn you that Delays are dangerous. I am, Dr Sir, Your real friend &: Ob Servt. Cornl. Harnett [P.S.] I write Mr Quince by this Post. 1 RC (NcU). 1 Not found.
