February 10, 1778 69 Henry Laurens to Patrick Henry Sir, 10th Febry 1777 [he. 1778] My last to your Excellency was dated the 3d Inst. & conveyed by the opportunity of Monsr. Lanuville. 1 My present duty is to forward two Acts of Congress which will accompany this. of the 3d Inst, for obliging all persons holding Commissions or appointments under Congress to qualify themselves by taking & sub scribing to certain Oaths therein prescribed, which Your Excellency will be pleased to lay before the Legislature & also to cause the said Act to be made public throughout the State of Virginia. of the 9th Inst, for restraining Malconduct in Continental Officers Civil & Military & for correcting the abuse of Supernumeraries in the Civil Line &: also recommending to the Legislatures of the several States to enact Laws for the most speedy & effectual recovery of debts due to the United States of America. 2 I likewise send in a seperate Packet by the present Messenger fifty blank Commissions for private Ships of War with the same number of Instructions & Bonds at the request of Colo. Fr. Lee the Bonds when executed to be transmitted to Congress. I have the honour to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). ’See Laurens to James Duane, February 3, 1778, note 2. 2 Laurens also transmitted copies of these February 3 and 9 resolves on oaths and Continental officers with brief letters that he wrote this day to the governors of Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. PCC, item 13, fols. 182-85. Furthermore, he transmitted copies of the February 9 resolve on Continen tal officers alone with brief letters that he wrote this day to the Massachusetts Council, the governors of Rhode Island and New Jersey, and the presidents of New Hampshire and Delaware, and also with a letter he wrote to Washington on February 13. Ibid., fols. 186-88. Henry Laurens to Thomas Mifflin Sir, York Town 10th February 1778 I beg pardon for having so long detained the Inclosed Act of Con gress of 30th January past, requiring immediately an Account of all public expenditures by the Quarter Master general. 1 This delay arose from my expectation of your speedy return to York. I am With very great Respect, Sir, Your most obedient servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (NNPM). ’See JCC, 10:102-3. For a detailed account of the extraordinarily complicated business of settling General Mifflin’s accounts as quartermaster general, which was
