80 February 12, 1778 retiring to more distant 8c convenient Quarters, the Troops justly expected every Comfort which the surrounding Country could af ford; among these a provident Care in the Article of Straw would probably have saved the Lives of many of your brave Soldiers, who have now paid the great Debt of Nature. Unprovided with this, or Materials to raise them from the cold & wet Earth, Sickness and Mortality have spread thro’ their Quarters, in an astonishing Degree. Notwithstanding the Diligence of the Physicians 8c Surgeons of whom we hear no Complaint, the sick & dead List has increased one third on the last weekly Return, which was one third greater than the Week preceding, & from the present inclement Weather will probably increase in a much greater Proportion. Nothing Sir can equal their Sufferings except the Patience 8c Fortitude with which the faithful Part of your Army endure them. Those of a different Character desert in considerable Numbers. We must also observe that a Number of the Troops have now been some Time prepared for Inoculation, but the Operation must be delayed for Want of this 8c other Neces saries, within the Providence of this Department. We need not point out the fatal Consequences of this delay in forming a new Army, or the Preservation of this. Almost every Day furnishes Instances of the Small Pox in the natural Way. Hitherto such Vigilance 8c Care has been used, that the Contagion has not spread, but surely it is highly incumbent upon us, if possible, to annihilate the Danger. We need not point out the Effect this Circumstance will have upon the new & draughted Troops if not carefully guarded, they are too obvious to need Enumeration. In Conference with the Forage Master on this Subject (which tho in Appearance trivial is really important) he acquaints us that tho out of his Line, he would have procured it if Waggons could have been furnished him for that Purpose. The Want of Horses 8c Waggons for the ordinary, as well as extra ordinary Occasions of the Army presses upon us if possible with equal Force. Almost every Species of Camp Transportation is now per formed by the Men, who without a Murmur patiently yoke themselves to little Carriages of their own making, or load their Wood 8c Provi sions on their Backs. Should the Enemy encouraged by the growing Weakness of your Troops, be led to make a successful Impression on your Camp, your Artillery would now undoubtedly fall into their Hands for Want of Horses to remove it. But these are smaller and tolerable Evils, when compared with the imminent Danger of your Troops perishing with Famine, or dispersing in Search of food. The Commissaries in Addition to their Supplies of live Cattle, which are precarious, have procured a Quantity of Pork in New Jersey, of which by a Failure of Waggons not one Barrel has reach’d the Camp, tho Orders were given for that Purpose as early as the 4th Jany. In yesterdays Conference with the General he informed us, that some
