February 12,1778 81 Brigades had been four Days without Meat & that even the common Soldiers had been at his Quarters to make known their Wants. At present Sir there is not one Gentleman of any Rank in this Depart ment tho the Duties of the office require a constant & unremitted Attention. In whatever View therefore this Object presents itself, we trust you will discover that the most essential Interests are connected with it. The Season of Preparation for next Campaign is passing swiftly away—be assured, Sir, that its Operation will be ineffectual either for Offence or Protection, if an Arrangement is not immediately made, & the most vigorous Exertions used to procure the necessary Supplies. Permit us to say, that a Moments Time should not be lost in placing a Man of approved Abilities & extensive Capacity at the Head of the Department who will restore it to some degree of Regularity & Order, whose provident Care will immediately relieve the present Wants of the Army 8c extend itself to those who must be satisfied before we can expect Vigorus Enterprize or Success. When your Committee reflect upon the increased Difficulties of procuring Waggons, Horses, Tents, 8c the numerous Train of Articles dependent on this Office, without which your Army cannot even move, They feel the greatest Anxiety least the utmost Skill, Diligence, 8c Address will prove insufficient to satisfy the growing Demands. All other Considerations vanish before this Object and we most earnestly wish Congress may be impress’d in a proper Degree with its Necessity 8c Importance. A Report has reach’d us that Col Lutterlogh is a Candidate for the Office of Quarter Master General. We have therefore been led to make some Inquiry into his Character 8c Conduct. We would be far from doing Injustice to his Abilities 8c Experience in a subordinate Line but exclusive of the Danger of intrusting so confidential an Office to a Stranger whose Attachment to this Country must be light 8c transient, & whose Interest may be so easily distinguished from ours we cannot find that he possesses Talents or Activity equal to the Discharge of this important Office. We find that in the Course of the Campaign necessary Tools 8c Stores have often been wanting—im portant 8c seasonable Movements of the Army delayed, in some In stances wholly frustrated 8c favourable Opportunities lost thro the Deficiencies of this Department. The rapid Marches of our Army 8c unforeseen Disasters which attended it during the Summer justly claim some Allowance, but that Disorder 8c Confusion prevail thro the Department which require some able Hand to reform & reduce, is a certain but melancholy Truth. Unacquainted with the Resolution of Congress with Respect to Genl. Schuyler we have hesitated what farther to propose. Time is so extremely precious, that we are unwilling to lose a single unneces-
