82 February 12, 1778 sary Moment, & have therefore been induced to extend our Views to the Disapprobation of this Gentleman & make some Provision for that Event. A Character has presented itself, 2 which in a great Degree meets our Judgment & Wishes; we have opened the Subject to him, & it is now under his Consideration. When we are at Liberty we shall introduce him to your Notice, but Delicacy forbids our doing it, until he has made up his Mind on the Subject, & given his Consent to the Nomination. Another Gentleman of extensive Connections, great Activity, 8c comprehensive Genius, but intirely in civil Life, has also been proposed. 3 As he is at a Distance we have not been able to consult him, & are restrained by similar Motives of Delicacy from making his Character Sc Name a Subject of Discussion without his Consent. By the Time we are favoured with the Determination respecting Genl Schuyler Sc he should not be approved we hope to be able to announce both these Gentlemen for your Consideration. We are with the greatest Respect and Regard Sir, Your most obedt. Sc very Hbble Servts. RC (DNA: PCC, item 33). In the hand of Joseph Reed. 1 Apparently the committee had not yet received the plan Congress had adopted on February 5 to reorganize the quartermaster general's department, which was communicated in a February 7 letter directing the committee to consult with General Washington on nominees for the posts to be filled in that department. See JCC, 10:126-27, 138; and Henry Laurens to the Committee at Camp, February 7, 1778. ’This is undoubtedly a reference to Gen. Nathanael Greene, with whom the committee consulted this day. See Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, February 8-14, 1778. See also Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, January 28, 1778. ’ It has not been determined to whom the committee was referring. Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens Sir, [February 12-25? 1778] 1 Maturely reflecting upon our Situation & Circumstances relative to the great Article of Provisions the lamentable Defect of which presses so sorely upon us and comparing our probable wants with the natural Resources of this great Country we are convinced that if the proper Measures had been used the present Evil would not have been felt. Permit us then Sir a little to investigate the Causes by which we feel ourselves reduced to the present Situation. We place the Depre ciation of our Money in the foremost Point of View and add that it hath in a great Measure arisen from the Giving of Commissions upon the Price of Commodities to those employed in Purchases. The second
