February 12, 1778 83 Cause certainly arises from a Want of Genius & Activity in the Head of the Commissary’s Department, added to a total Ignorance of our Resources or the Means of drawing them forth with Ease and Expedi tion. A third Cause flows from a Want of the Means of Transporting the several necessary Articles to Camp. A fourth is the total Neglect of every Thing but the immediate and pressing Emergencies which arise without looking forward to provide for or rather [prevent?] such Emergencies for altho it may be impracticable to point out the pre cise Theatre of the War Yet if Magazines were laid up in the several probable Places the worst which could happen would be a little additional Expence in Transportation. The last Cause is a plentiful source of this and numerous other Evils, the Want of Money which presses so hard that we are told on good Authority that private Per sons buy Wheat in the Vicinage of this Camp two shillings per Bushel cheaper than the public Agents. To consider these Things in their Order we observe first that the Allowing Commissions which Congress have altered long ago we cannot suppose will be revived for Reasons the most obvious and as to the general Depreciation complained of the wise Measure of Taxa tion will probably prevent it from increasing Notwithstanding the proposed Regulation of Prices on which we shall say Nothing sub mitting the Propriety of it to those great Tests of political Wisdom, Time & Experience. Our Sentiments upon the Head of the Depart ment we have already communicated and suppose that the Attention of Congress will be called to it in a Manner becoming its Importance. 2 And as to the want of Waggons & the like We cannot but believe that the Assistance of the Legislature of this and the Neighbouring States, if properly applied to afford to a prudent and provident Quarter Master Genl, (and such a Man we expect soon to recommend), will remove this Evil. The fourth Cause demands a little more Consideration. And first let us consider the now immediate want for the next Season and then what is of more Importance perhaps the Means of obtaining Supplies for the Campaign of the Year 1779 and the Winter preceeding it. On the first Head Nothing seems to be left but to urge the Husbandmen of Virginia, Pennsylvania & New Jersey immediately to prepare as many Cattle as they can for the next Summer forthwith, to procure all the Pork which can be had in the Eastern and Southern States, to have large Supplies of Fish laid up from the Rivers of Virginia par ticularly the Potowmack in the ensuing Spring and to get all the Cattle which can be bought in the Eastern States. Flour is out of the Question as there can be no want of that Article if the smallest Atten tion be paid to it. As to the Magazines for the Winter and Campaign succeeding the next the first Measure will be to contract immediately for as many
