February 13, 1778 89 you will be pleased to forward the Result to the General to be further communicated. We remain with the greatest Respect & Regard, Sir, Your most Obed & very Hbble servts FC (DNA: PCC, item 192). Written by Joseph Reed and endorsed by him: "Letter to Gov. Livingston respectg. procuring Waggons & remountng Cavalry.” 1 Reed wrote in the margin beside this paragraph: “Horses at least 1/ blooded 15 Hands high & not less than 4 years old will be required.” William Ellery to William Churchill Houston Dr. Sir, York town Febry. 13th 1778. I received your letter seasonably, and have sent its enclosure to Mr. Marchant. I have been under much concern for my good old land lord and his family; but my solicitude is relieved by his appointment to the office of a hospital chaplain in the middle department; an ap pointment for which he is greatly indebted to our worthy friend President Witherspoon. When I left Philadelphia I fully expected to have returned to it— to have spent many useful and pleasant evenings with Mr. Sprout and you, in untying some metaphysical Knot, in attending to your solution of some mathematical problem or physical question, and catching by snatches some knowledge of the French Language—but alass!— instead of this pleasure I am condemned to drag through the winter amidst a people who have but one idea, and whose manners are as different from the English as their language. You, it seems, have leaped out of the frying-pan into the fire of business. What think you of leaping back again? Mr. Rush hath resigned, and the office of Dep. Sec. is now vacant. 1 But you are be come a parliament man and are immersed in politicks; and perhaps, mounted in the chariot of glory, look down upon so low an office with disregard. Come then a delegate. 2 I should be exceedingly glad to see you here in any shape. I received a letter from Mr. Channing a few days ago. He and his family and mine were well when he wrote. Your kind Inquiry after their health, and your wishes to see my Spectacles are very obliging. I should rejoice to speak to you and your good lady face to face as a man speaketh to his friend. We have not taken Rhode-Island yet. Inglorious Expedition. We have lost Philadelphia! But this would be nothing if avarice and peculation did not rage irresistibly. The Love of country & public virtue are annihilated. If Diogenes were alive, and were to search America with candles, would he find an honest man? I knew an honest man once in office. Believe me to be his Friend. William Ellery
