90 February 13, 1778 P.S. Dr. Witherspoon will acquaint you with a Resolve of Congress lately passed, which may give some check to the Shoals of Officers who are rioting on the Spoils of the Publick. 3 RC (PHi). Addressed: “William C. Houston Esqr., Princeton, New Jersey.” 1 On January 28 Congress had accepted the resignation of its deputy secretary Jacob Rush, who had been Houston’s successor in that post. See JCC, 8:874-75, 10:95-96. 3 Houston, who had recently become a member of the New Jersey Assembly, later served in Congress in 1779-81 and 1784-85. Bio. Dir. Cong. 3 On February 3 Congress had approved the administration of an oath designed to prevent the misuse of public money or stores by Continental officials. JCC 10:115-16. James Forbes to Thomas Johnson Sir York Town Feby. 13th 1778 I shoud have don my self the honour to have wrote you before now, had I any thing worth communicating. This is to informe you that the appointment of Commershall agents in France has been moved for in Congress, in consequince of Mr Wm Lee’s being ap pointed a Commissiner to the Courts of Vienna & Barlen, and of a Letter from Mr Robt Morris, recommending Mr Jno Ross to suchseed his Broter. 1 I put Mr Jushua Johnson in the nomination, and I be lieve, had Congress made the appointment, he woud have been chosen, but they resolved that the Commissiners in France shoud ap point them, and they are wrote to on the 9th Instt. for that purpose, 2 had I known how to have directed to your Brother, I woud have wrote him on the Subject. The Committee that went to Camp for reforming the army is not yet returned, nor have we heard from their, for som time, the com munication being stopt by the River being impassible. The Demands on Congress for money is immence, it cant be emitted fast enuff, and I apprehend the demand will encrease in proportion to the Emission. Commissiners appointed in this State, 8c the Board of War are empowerd to purchase 50,000 Bbls Flour, 3 8: all the Pork 8: Beef they can get, and lay it up in Magazeens, for a supply, in case the Com missary falls short in his purchas, which there is grate reason to fear, their is very grate complaints of his department from every quarter. Congress have had noe accounts from Europe since I have been here. Ten States only are represented in Congress, 8c one half of them, by one member only. Masechusits, New York 8c Virginia have noe repre sentation. I shall doe my self the honour of writing you when any thing offers worth communicating and am very respectfully, Sir, Your most Obedt Hble serv. James Forbes
