94 February 13, 1778 much for the Assistance of those Gentlemen in so important an affair. Mr. Paine being hindered on the Convention of Committees at New Haven Occasioned his not arriving at Providence, till the 6th current, at which time we immediately sent Summonses to the Examinants; exceeding bad travelling delayed our Expresses, and we suppose has hindered several General Officers who live at a Distance from arriving at this Time, it also happens that public Concerns of great Importance require each of us to be absent next Week, and for some Time, and therefore finding that we cannot at this Time finish the Examinations to Satisfaction, tho’ we have made considerable Progress in them, we have concluded to adjourn to the fourth Monday in March at this Place, and have notified all Examinants to be present, 3 and hoping that Mr. Benson will be able to assist us with his Presence, we have wrote him on the Subject. 4 We take Liberty through you to inform the Honble Congress of our Proceedings, and hope this unavoidable adjournment of our business will not be disagreeable to them. 5 We are with Esteem, your humble Servants, RT Paine Oliver Ellsworth Hy Marchant RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). In a clerical hand and signed by Ellsworth, Marchant, and Paine. Endorsed by Charles Thomson: “Letter from R. T. Paine, O. Ellsworth, H. Marchant. Providence Feby 13. 1778. Read March 12.” 1 For a discussion of the background and work of this committee, which was investigating the failure in October 1777 of a joint expedition by Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut against the British occupying force in Rhode Island, see Laurens to the Rhode Island Expedition Commissioners, December 15, 1777, note 1. Congress had actually appointed the commissioners on December 11, 1777. JCC, 9:1022. 2 Gen. William Whipple of New Hampshire and Egbert Benson, the attorney general of New York, had also been appointed to this commission. JCC, 9:1022. 3 See also Rhode Island Expedition Commissioners to Laurens, March 27, 1778. 4 The commissioners’ letter to Egbert Benson has not been found. 8 Robert Treat Paine also made some pertinent remarks about his work on the commission in a private letter he wrote this day to Elbridge Gerry. Having been detained at a convention of states in New Haven, he noted, "I did not arrive here till the Friday after the Monday appointed for our meeting. We went immediately upon business, tho’ with great reluctance with a bare quorum but we thought if we excused our selves one after another, it would throw the requisitions of Con gress into a faint point of light, & so I undertook this fatiguing business meerly from Patriotic principles, & to put a good face on our Affairs; otherwise, a large Sum would not have tempted me to have been Absent from Genl. Court, forming Constitution, regulating money &c to say nothing of private affairs. We are obliged to Adjourn to 4th Monday in March, when we hope to finish to Satisfaction; you will oblige me if you will inform me how the Expences of this business are to be born, & whether any allowance is to be made to us by Congress for the Service.” Emmet Collection, NN.
