February 14, 1778 95 Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens Sir - Moor Hall 14th Feby. 1778. The Distresses of our Army we cannot paint if we would. We would not if we could, since it would answer no Purpose to give you the Pain of reflecting upon this which you cannot perhaps alleviate, tho indeed a careful Appointment of certain officers may prevent them in future. Without entering into that Detail at present, we have to observe that Distress in an Army always furnishes Materials for factious and de signing Men to work upon. Those who know Mankind know that such Men exist, and according to the common Chances of Humanity, it may well be supposed that our army is not without them. But be this as it may, there are a Kind of Men in the World, who from the Pride of Opinion do great and lasting Mischeif. If for Instance, a Person of this Cast should (possibly from an Unwillingness to be situated in the Enemy’s Neighbourhood) have assigned, among other Reasons against the Post we now occupy, that the Army would be distressed for Want of Provisions & Forage; he would now, to vaunt his own Judgment, dwell upon the present Sufferings in the per nicious Stile of Exageration. Whether soothing Language would not lend more to inspire the Soldiery with patient Fortitude, no one can be at a Loss to determine. Without troubling Congress with any Application of these Ideas, We take Leave to observe, that as there is a Want of General Officers in the continental Line at Rhode Island it might not be improper immediately to send one thither. We do ourselves the Honor to recommend to this Post a Gentleman from that State, Brigadier Gen eral Varnum whose Character and Abilities are so well known to Congress that we shall not presume to dilate upon that Subject. 1 We are Sir with the deepest Respect, your most obedient & humble Servants, Fra Dana, by Order RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Written by Gouverneur Morris and signed by Dana. 1 On Congress decision to disregard the committee’s recommendation, see Com mittee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, February 8-14, 1778, note 10. William Duer to Francis Lightfoot Lee My dear sir, Reading Feby. 14th. 1777 [i.e. 1778] You will be much surprised to hear of me from Reading, where I have been detain’d three or four Days in Expectation of receiving a Letter from York Town, the Substance of which is (I am told) a very Extraordinary Conversation betwixt the Marquis de la Fayette, and Genl. Conway, of which I had the Honor of being the Topic. 1 In the
