February 16, 1778 107 mation on Laurance’s career as judge advocate and for a discussion of these two points raised by Laurance, see Robert H. Berlin, “Administration of Military Justice in the Continental Army during the American Revolution, 1775-1783’’ (Ph.D. diss., University of California at Santa Barbara, 1976), pp. 96-111, 141-45, 161-65. 10 That is the marquis de la Tour du Pin de Montauban. See Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:227-28, 232, 233n. u See Committee at Camp to Ephraim Blaine, February 20, 1778. A letter Blaine wrote to the committee this day from “Camp, Pawlings Ford,” containing com plaints against the Board of War’s purchasing agent Robert L. Hooper for buying up wheat for forage that should have been used for flour, is in the Ephraim Blaine Letterbook, DLC. 12 Not found. 13 For the continuation of these minutes, see Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, February 22-28, 1778. Committee at Camp to Thomas Johnson Sir. Camp at the Valley Forge 16th Feby. 1778 We have the Honor to compose a Committee of Congress appointed to confer with the General upon the Affairs of the Army &: with him to concert Measures for opening the Campaign with Vigor and Activ ity. During the Progress of this important Business the critical Situa tion of the Army on the Score of Provisions hath filled our Minds with Apprehension and Alarm. Fed by daily Supplies and even those uncertain we have to fear a total Want. Some Brigades have not tasted Flesh in four Days and the Evil great as it is seems rather to increase than diminish. The Commissaries inform us that they have not only met with Great Difficulties in Purchasing Provisions in your State but that they cannot even transport what they have purchased for the Want of Waggons & the like. Whether these Apologies are justly founded we will not presume to say but this is certain that upon an early transportation of large Quantities of Provisions to this camp from the State you preside over the very Existence of our Army de pends. Let us then intreat you Sir to exert the full Influence of your Abilities to forward such Supplies as may have been already bought up and also to obtain by such Measures as you may think most ade quate to that Purpose as much as can be spared by the Inhabitants from their own particular Consumption. We have the Honor to be, respectfully, Sir, your most obedt. & humble Servants, Francis Dana Jno. Harvie Nathel. Folsom Gouv. Morris RC (MdAA). Written by Gouverneur Morris and signed by Morris, Dana, Folsom, and Harvie.
