February 17, 1778 117 RC (PHi). 1 Not found. 2 Thoughts on the Letter of Edmund Burke, Esq. to the Sheriffs of Bristol, on the Affairs of America, a vigorous attack on Edmund Burke’s defense of unlimited parliamentary supremacy. For the Americans’ use of Abingdon’s tract to revive sagging American morale during this bleak period, see Paul H. Smith, comp., English Defenders of American Freedoms, 1774-1778 (Washington: Library of Congress, 1972), pp. 193-230. It is clear from the correspondence of Thomas Wharton, president of the Pennsylvania Council, that he and Robert Morris had a hand in subsidizing the publication of an American edition of the pamphlet by John Dunlap at Lancaster at this time. Ibid., pp. 194, 196n.3. Gouverneur Morris to George Clinton Sir. Camp Valley Forge 17th Feby. 1778. This half private half public Letter arrives to tell you that an American Army in the Bosom of America is about to disband for the Want of somewhat to eat. We write to you as Governor from the Committee a general Letter. 1 To your private Ear and for your particular Information let me say that our Troops have been upon the Point of disbanding three times. One dangerous Mutiny quelled with Difficulty. The neighbouring Country twice laid under military Contribution to little or no Purpose. The sly broad Brims 2 who do not take Arms against us in great Numbers are assiduous in the Task of undermining our Resources and when we are starved from a Piece of Ground Howe need but appear and it smiles with Abund ance. I know our State can furnish little or no Provisions but Some thing or other may perhaps be done and if so let it be done. 3 Not a Word of Politicks. I know none and from the State of New York I can hear none. Yes one Piece of News. Howe is so fearful that the World should know his situation or his Army know what passes in the World that he examines every Letter of every Body going to or coming from any Place and all this under very severe Penalties on those who shall presume to smuggle. Desertion prevails in his Army, Resignation among the Officers of it. Ours is not without both of these Diseases. But when you consider that the Poor Dogs are in an Enemy’s Country without Cloaths to wear, Victuals to eat, Wood to burn or straw to lie on the wonder is that they stay not that they go. Let me intreat that I may immediately have a Return of the Officers in Gansevoorts, Van Schaicks & Dubois’s Regiments containing their merit that is to say let the best Captain be put on the Top of the List, the next best next and so on for each Regt. Those Officers who are worse than indifferent marked with an asterisk * those very good with a Star Let me at the same time have a Copy of a Rank Roll made out for the late Convention by their Committee of Appointment and on it the Vacancies which have since happened. Secrecy in this
