120 February 17, 1778 best be deposited with yours. The Brigt. Morris belongs to the Con tinent, she was bought by Jno Langdon Esquire in New Hampshire & her Cost & charges must be transferred to your Debit. The Snow Speedwell, Capt. Kent, was valued at £2000 Virginia Curry by per sons appointed for the purpose, she is my property & no Charter party has ever been made but the Committee must in this as in all other Cases Insure the value of said Vessell, in proportion as their part of the Cargo is to the whole, and the same with the Brigt. Boston in which I am interested with Mr. Braxton & Mr. Ross, this Brigt. might have been sold both before & since she loaded for £3000, which I deem her salvation and should be glad you would either order Charter parties to be made out for these Vessells or Enter on your Minutes that you are Insurers thereon against all Risques untill the Cargoes are landed, at the Valuations I have mentioned in the proportions that your part of the Cargoes bears to the whole on board. The letting these Vessells take in Goods for the public has been of great prejudice to the Owners as they could long Since have sold them if disengaged to good profits but instead of that they have been long detained on heavy expenses, part whereof they think you should pay & respecting which I shall speak to you when I come to York. I am now at the 19th Febry & find myself disapointed by Messrs. Hunters of Fredericksburgh who promised our Accot. Currt. with them by the last post but it is not come, therefore I will leave the Sum a blank for the present. That they are accountable to you for, it is however above £9000 this Currency & soon as I receive their account the proper Entries shall be made in the Secret Committee Books for transferring that balance also to you. I must observe how ever, that a part of this balance has come into their hands from the Sales of Goods saved from Ship Esther &: Brigt. General Mercer since that price of Tobacco was above the purchasing limits, consequently these Gentlemen will have some Money & some Tobacco to accot. for, they are Men of honor & good Merchants and will deliver every hogshead of the Tobacco they bought. I have ten Hogshead of To bacco on Board the ship Chase & ten Hogshead on board the Snow George for which I was to pay Eighteen Guineas per Ton freight, but as it is probable the destination of these Vessells must be altered and that the Cargoes will be assigned to Monsr. Francy, you may have these twenty hogsheads also at the first Cost & charges if you choose it. If not they may go forward on my account as first intended and you’l please to give me an answer to this offer. I have just received a letter from Mr. J Brown dated the 15th Inst, desiring me to return Messrs. Hewes & Smiths letter to the Committee, this I did by Monsr. Francy. He also says you wish for an extract of their letter to me on
