128 February 18, 1778 hutted at Valey Forge, the Enemy have not as yet thought proper to molest them. A Committee of Congress is now at Head quarters with Intention to make such Reformation in the Army as may be judged necessary. Congress are exceedingly anxious that the Several States should exert themselves in Completing their Battalions. We have heard nothing lately of Colo Shephard. The prices of Leather skins &c are excessive high, but they are articles which must at any rate be procured; we shall in our next Inform you whether Congress will choose to give still a greater price for those articles. We wish your Excellency would be pleased to in form us whether there is not a Quantity of Salt Pork in the hands of Private persons, this is an Article which will be very much wanted for the Army the next Campaign as the Supplies from the Eastward have fallen very short of the Expectations of Congress. We shall write you more fully in our next, and have the Honor to be with respect, Your Excellency’s, Most obt. & very huml. srvts. J Penn Coml. Harnett [P.S.] Inclosed are the two last papers. Since writing the above we have received letters from General Washington in which we are informed that Genl. Howe has agreed to an exchange of Prisoners; Officers for officers, Soldiers for Soldiers & Citizen for Citizen, so that our poor Country-men will soon be re leased from their cruel confinement. Congress a few days ago Resolved that as Genl Howe had refused to suffer anything to be purchased for the releif of our prisoners in his hands that he should be obliged to send all the necessaries his prisoner’s with us might want Sc that the same Severity should be practised towards British Prisoner’s as was inflicted on ours, 3 this Resolution has produced a change in Mr Howes conduct. He paid some high compliments to Genl Washington and at the same time censured Congress, but was answered by our General that he would always resent any afront offered the Repre sentatives of a free People under whose authority he acted, and that he had ever avoided saying anything of the Conduct of those Genl. Howe served. J Penn C Harnett Tr (Nc-Ar). 1 Governor Caswells January 12, 1778, letter to the North Carolina delegates is in N.C. State Records, 13:7-8. ’See North Carolina Delegates to Thomas Johnson, February 20, 1778. ’See Congress’ January 21, 1778, resolves on prisoners of war in JCC, 10:74-82.
