134 February 19, 1778 received or know on this head will be seen on an Inclosed paper marked Committees conference with Baron Stiiben to which I beg leave to refer your Excellency. I have the honour to be with great Respt. [P.S.] The Baron declines the Commission abovementioned or any other for the present. ENCLOSURE Committee Report on Baron von Steuben The Baron Stuben who was a Leiutenant General and Aide de Camp to the King of Prussia—desires no rank—is willing to attend General Washington, and be subject to his orders—does not require or desire any command of a particular Corps or Division, but will serve occasionally as directed by the General—expects to be of use in planning Encampments &c. and promoting the discipline of the Army—he heard before he left France, of the dissatisfaction of the Americans with the promotion of foreign officers, therefore makes no terms, nor will accept of any thing but with the general approbation and particularly that of General Washington. Signed by Mr. Witherspoon Mr. F.L. Lee Mr. McKean Mr. Henry LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Tr (DNA: PCC, item 19). In a clerical hand and en dorsed by George Washington: “Copy—Examined. Go. Washington. Mount Vernon Novr. 10th. 1787.” The text of the enclosure printed above is taken from a transcript of the original committee report made for Washington in 1787 and forwarded by him to Congress to help the delegates determine the justice of Baron von Steuben’s claims for compensation for his revolutionary war services. See Washington to Charles Thomson, November 10, 1787, PCC, item 19, 5:581-82. The original MS report has not been found. ’See Laurens to Patrick Henry, February 10, 1778, note. 2 Washington’s letters are in PCC, item 152, 5:283-89, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:418, 428-30. Along with the second letter Washington sent copies of eight letters pertaining to an exchange of prisoners that he and Gen. William Howe had written to each other between January 8 and February 10. Washington Papers, DLC. 3 Although Congress believed that this “illustrious Stranger” had been a lieuten ant general in the Prussian army, Steuben was in fact a former aide-de-camp to Frederick the Great who had attained only the rank of captain and had not been in the king’s employ since 1763. See John M. Palmer, General von Steuben (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1937), pp. 1-5, 29-52, 97-98, who argues that Ben jamin Franklin was responsible for exaggerating the baron’s military attainments in order to facilitate congressional acceptance of his services as a volunteer officer. Although the fact is not recorded in the journals, it is clear from Laurens’ letter and from other sources that on February 6, the day after Steuben’s arrival in York, Congress appointed a committee consisting of John Henry, Francis Lightfoot Lee, Thomas McKean, and John Witherspoon to meet with the baron and ascertain his terms for serving in the Continental Army. Palmer, General von Steuben,
