February 19, 1778 135 pp- 122-23. Steuben himself described his meeting with the committee, which apparently wrote its report on February 6 or 7, in a memorial he submitted to the U.S. Congress in August 1789 to justify his claims for further compensation for his military service: “At the arrival of the Baron de Steuben, in the year 1777 [i.e., 1778], he was received by Congress with marks of distinction, and, the day after his arrival, was waited on by a committee of Congress, composed of Dr. Witherspoon, Mr. Henry, of Maryland, and a third, whom at this time he cannot recollect. This committee demanded of the baron the conditions on which he was inclined to serve the United States, and if he had made any stipulations with the commissioners in France. He replied that he had made no agreement with them, nor was it his in tention to accept of any rank or pay; that he wished to join the army as a volun teer, and to render such services as the commander-in-chief should think him capable of, adding that he had no other fortune than a revenue of about six hundred guineas per annum, arising from places and posts of honor in Germany, which he had relinquished to come to this country; that, in consideration of this, he expected the United States would defray his necessary expenses while in their service; that if, unhappily, this country should not succeed in establishing their independence, or if he should not succeed in his endeavors for their service, in either of those cases he should consider the United States as free from any obliga tions towards him; but if, on the other hand, the United States should be happy enough to establish their freedom, and that he should be successful in his en deavors, in that case he should expect a full indemnification for the sacrifice he had made in coming over, and such marks of their generosity as the justice of the United States should dictate; that, if these terms were agreeable to Congress, he waited only their orders to join the army without delay. The committee were pleased to applaud the generosity of his propositions, in thus risking his fortune on that of the United States. The committee then left him in order to make their report. The next day, Congress gave him an entertainment; after which the President, Mr. Laurens, told him it was the desire of Congress that he should join the army immediately, which he did.” Walter Lowrie and Walter S. Franklin, eds., American State Papers Class IX Claims (Washington: Gales and Seaton, 1834), pp. 11-12. The same memorial includes affidavits drawn up and signed by Lee, McKean, and Witherspoon in 1785 and 1788, attesting to the accuracy of Steuben’s account of his meeting with them, as well as 1785 letters from Horatio Gates and Richard Peters, the president and secretary of the Board of War in February 1778, on the baron’s dealings with the committee. Ibid., pp. 12-13. For a detailed treatment of Steuben’s long and not entirely successful quest for remuneration from the Con tinental and Federal Congresses, see Palmer, General von Steuben, pp. 297-306, 323-27, 330-31, 352-54, 362, 374-77. James Lovell to Samuel Adams My dear Sir, Yk 19th Feb. [1778] I have only time to give you the Anatomy of French Politics as, they stood Sepr. 10th 77. 1 America undertook war of her own motion upon great provocations given by England and without consulting France, though doubtless depending in a degree upon the political Interests of that Nation. Complaints therefore against her while she pursues what she judges to be that Interest are unjust. She did not
