144 February 20, 1778 our Sentiments before Congress on the material Alteration proposed in this Office. We now, Sir, beg Leave to submit to your Consideration, a Proposi tion of employing a Number of Indians in the American Army. 1 We have fully discussed it with the General, 8c upon the maturest Delib eration are induced to recommend it to Congress. We are of Opinion no Measure can be adopted so effectual to break off the pernicious Intercourse which the disaffected Inhabitants of this Country still hold with the Enemy, from which they derive the greatest Advantages. Exclusive of the wholesome Supplies of Provisions by which they refresh their numerous Sick, & check the Advances of the Scurvy, it is the most sure & certain Source of Intelligence. Thro’ this Channel they are constantly apprized not only of every material Transaction of our Army, but of the Quarters of our Troops Be Situation of such active Whigs as are either occasionally passing, or yet reside within the Reach of their Excursions. Hence almost every Day furnishes an Instance of some Surprize & Capture. From repeated Successes they grow confident & venture in small Parties a considerable Distance, carrying off with them such straggling Officers, Soldiers, 8c incautious Whigs as they find in their Route. Their Progress in this Business is the more alarming as they are now joined by a Number of Tories perfectly acquainted with the Country, well mounted 8c equipp’d, who not only serve as Guides to the British Horse, but venture upon sep arate Expeditions. The Terror of these Excursions is so great, that it will, unless seasonably check’d, endanger the Communication of the Army with its Supplies 8c absolutely deprive us of all Assistance from our Friends in the lower Parts of the three Counties of Bucks, Chester, 8c Philada. 2 We can foresee but two Objections to employing the Indians on the Flanks 8c Advance of the Army. The Danger of indis criminate Injury to the well 8c ill affected, 8c Prevention of Desertion from the Enemy. But his Excelly. is of Opinion both may be obviated by proper Precautions, or at least so far guarded as to justify the Expediency of the Measure, 8c render the Experiment less hazardous than it may appear at first View. But we do not, Sir, confine our Ideas to the present Moment, we think the restless Spirits of the Savages will not allow them to remain inactive. If we do not find Subjects to employ them on, we fear our Enemies will, 8c we have only to chuse whether these shall be British Troops or the Inhabitants of our defenceless Frontiers. As it is in Contemplation to form a Flying Army composed of light Infantry 8c rifle Men under the Direction of Officers distinguished for their Activity 8c Spirit of Enterprize, it is proposed to mix about 400 Indians with them; being thus incorporated with our own Troops, who are designed to skirmish, act in Detachments 8c light Parties, as well as lead the Attack, we hope their Irregularities will be restrained 8c any
