February 20, 1778 145 Excesses prevented. We fear a greater Number would rather injure than promote the Service, as they claim Access at all Times & on all Occasions to the Commander in Chief & expect Cloathing & Douceurs which we fear our scanty Supplies will not afford but in very moderate Quantities. The Number therefore we propose we flatter ourselves may be easily procured, their good Humour preserved 8c sufficiently answer the Purposes we have in View. Nor do we think ourselves less warranted to say that there is great Reason to believe the Novelty of their Appearance in the Field, the Circumstances of Horror & Affright which attend their Attack, will have a great Effect upon the Minds of Men wholly unacquainted with such an Enemy. Upon the foreign Troops we doubt not it would operate in a high Degree, 8c when we consider upon what trivial Circumstances the Fate of Battles often turns, 8c the constant Atten tion shewn by the nice Observers of the human Heart in the military Line to every Thing which can discompose 8c terrify it, we trust we shall not be thought visionary or chimerical. Upon the whole, Sir, by the Request 8c Desire of the General we beg Leave to recommend it as a Measure of Policy 8c Utility worthy the Attention of Congress. If it should meet your Approbation, Col. Gist a Gentleman of much Acquaintance 8c Experience with the Southern Indians will most chearfully receive your Commands 8c is recommended to us by General Washington as a Man of approved Spirit 8c Conduct, in whom the greatest Confidence may be safely reposed. The Situation of the Oneidas to the Northward is such, that per haps it will be found our truest Interest to take them into Service, even if little is expected from them. They are threatned by the surrounding Tribes 8c declare that unless we can protect them, they must however reluctantly take up the Hatchet against us or be intirely cut off. We cannot protect them unless we take the Nation into our Country, which may be done by selling their Wives 8c Children for the present in the State of New York, as the Commissioners may think proper, and bringing their Warriours to the Army, for whose Fidelity 8c Perseverance we shall then have the best Pledges, without the Odium of demanding them. We are, with the greatest Respect 8c Regard, Sir, Your most Obedt. 8c very Hbble servts. F. Dana by order P.S. Having communicated this Letter to his Excelly. he wishes to add that no Time is to be lost in coming to a Resolution 8c dispatching Col. Gist, as the Distance is very great 8c the previous Ceremonies 8c Preparations will take up some Time—And that Col. Gist being now detached with a Party of ficticious Indians upon the Lines cannot
