February 20, 1778 147 In order to supply the place of the original, admitting what is barely possible, that it has not reached you, I will subjoin a Copy of my said Letter of the 7th by which you will perceive the intention of Congress was that you should consult with General Washington; I presume the same is now meant although not expressed in the present Resolve which was concluded rather in haste this Evening. I am with very great Regard, Sir, Your obedient & humble Servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (DNA: PCC, item 192). Addressed: “The Honorable Francis Dana Esquire for the Committee from Congress—at Valley forge Camp.” 1 For the Committee at Camp’s response to this resolve, see its February 24 and 25, 1778, letters to Laurens. Henry Laurens to Francis Dana Sir 20th Febry 1778. I was last Night honoured with your favor of the 14th. 1 My memory is too modest to attempt to prove a negative, but it pleads ignorance of your having applied to me for Cruizing Commissions &: their com panions, although you may, as you intimate have Spoken to me cursorily on the Subject, be that as it may, you shall be no longer charged with remissness on that score, I will send a set of 25 tomorrow morning by a Messenger whom I shall dispatch with orders from Congress, for “seperating & placing General Burgoyne’s Troops in such manner & such parts of Massachusets as may be most convenient for their subsistence” &ca. 2 I thank you Sir, for your concern for my health, I have not only not been tormented by the Gout for near a Month past, but by obstinately persisting in the severe discipline of Cold Water have gained more strength in my ankles than I should otherwise have had till the warm weather had come in to my relief. Your description of the miseries of the Army affected me beyond common feeling, altho’ I thought myself prepared by having perused it at home, I could not go through the reading your Letter in Con gress. Deep sympathy for the poor Suffering Soldiers blended with as deep indignation against the infamous delinquents who have been the authors of their distress, forbid utterance. You say you will learn Characters, I think Sir, from the slight acquaintance I have had the honour of making with you, You have too much fortitude & integrity, either to be flattered or frighted by any Character & that when you have fully investigated, you will tell your Country in the presence of their Representatives where orig inated the Evils complained of. I wish you had been here yesterday
