February 21, 1778 151 Tobacco for France. She is to go as a Packet to be armed and Com manded by Captain Read. 3 We have ordered the Two Vessels which last arrived at North Carolina from Hispaniola to be loaded with Tobacco and Consigned to Mr. Carrabasse. The Brigantine Success, Captain Harris, now at Edenton, was ordered before her Sailing from Boston to proceed from Carolina to Bilbao to the address of Messr. Gardoqui & Sons. Congress have ordered General Hand to send Provisions to the Arkansaws. 4 In Answer to the 8th would observe that we think Mr Duer would have been very illy employed in telling you any thing that might have passed in Congress in which you were concerned; especially we think him highly culpable in representing to you that the Commercial Com mittee had complained to Congress that their not having the Books in their possession was a grievance to them; because it was a gross misrepresentation. Messrs. Forbes & Ellery who were the only mem bers of the Commercial Committee then present, laid before Congress General Hands Letter &c respecting the Rattle Trap. Some of the Members were dissatisfied with that undertaking and asked a Multi tude of questions about it. The Instructions given to Captain Willing were read; but still they wanted more light, when accidentally it was mentioned that the Books and Papers of the Secret Committee were in your hands. This occasioned a Conversation about them, which, if we could, we should think it not worth our while to relate. Let it suffice that so far from complaining against you on account of the Books, the Members of the Committee were for your retaining them ’till they should be settled.® We laid this Letter before Congress who desired us to inform you that they would have you still keep the Books in your possession and settle them as soon as you could. We have asked your advice frequently and freely, and have as often and as freely received it and shall continue to trouble you while we remain of the Commercial Committee (which we hope for reasons we have already mentioned to you will not be long) 6 whenever we find ourselves embarrassed. In answer to yours of the 12th we leave the disposition of the Indies intirely to you. Yours of the 17th is now before Congress and will be answered in due Time. We have the Honor to be Sir, Your Obed Hble servants, Fra Lewis William Ellery RC (NjGbS). In the hand of John Brown and signed by Ellery and Lewis. 1 Except for the fragment of his February 7 letter quoted in the next note, only Morris’ February 17 letter has been found.
