156 February 21, 1778 the Civil & Military Lines of the Army 8c for appointing Auditors of Army Accounts 8cca. These may be added to several preceeding dis patches which I have had the honour of transmitting to Your Excel lency 8c which remain unacknowledged. Your Excellency will be pleased to receive in company with this, an Act of Congress of the present date earnestly recommending to the Executive Council of this State to exert the whole power of the State to releive the Army under General Washington now reduced almost to the very last extremity from a want of provision of Flesh 8c Forage, 8c referring to a Letter from the General of the 15th Inst, to Robt. l’ Hooper & others, 8c to an extract of a Letter from Mr. Duer to Colo. Lee of the 19th. Copy of the said Letter together with the extract Your Excellency will find with the other Paper. 2 I dare not Insult Your Excellency 8c the Honorable Council by urging that not a moment should be lost, or that on Your exertions rest the safety of our Union 8c Independency. All attempts to such incitement, I am persuaded are equally unseasonable 8c unnecessary. I have therefore only to conclude wishing success to Your Excellency’s Orders 8c endeavors 8c repeating that I am, With very great Respect, Sir, Your obedient 8c Most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (NN). 1 See Laurens to George Clinton, February 19, 1778, note 4. 2 Washington’s February 15 letter to Robert L. Hooper, Nathaniel Falconer, and Jonathan Mifflin, who had been appointed by the Board of War to purchase sup plies in Pennsylvania for the Continental Army, is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:463-64. The enclosed extract of William Duer’s February 19 letter to Francis Lightfoot Lee is printed in this volume under that date. See also note 1 to that letter. Daniel Roberdeau to the Pennsylvania Assembly $i r > York Town Feby. 21st. 1778 I have the honor to address my Constituents the Representatives of this State now assembled, on subjects the most distressing and alarm ing, the deficiencies in the Commissaries and Quarter masters depart ments which threaten the dispersion of our army and all the horrid train of Evils consiquent to this State more immediately, and to the common cause more general in its baneful influence. The Letters and resolves of Congress ordered to be forwarded 1 makes a particular discant on the distresses of our army unnecessary from me. I have only to assure the Honble. House that under God the Salvation of our Cause now depends on you as from your Situation timely supplies of provisions especially meat, of forage and Waggons and immediate
