February 21, 1778 157 conveyance can only be expected, and without the most vigorous exertions you may depend the army will disperse, nothing but indis pensable duty would extort a secret which might by being divulged prove ruinous, therefore what is my duty, is equally the duty of your Honble. House now the fact is disclosed to impose the most inviolable restraint on yourselves that our Enemies may not triumph in our Disgrace. Congress will begrudge no expence attending the exicution of your order in dependance on which is now the whole trust of Congress, for an immediate supply, or in other words for preventing the most direful distress. It would be impertinent in me to attempt to inforce a Subject so important on your Honble. House. Congress have displaced Officers who infringed the Law of the State respecting the prices of Articles. 2 To this Enemies will attribute the Evils we should deprecate, but our cause does not depend on the weak efforts of a few individuals, much less on any restless spirits among us who probably in the struggle mean to overset the freedom of this State. Your en deavours I trust will be succeeded. I am most respectfully, Sir, Yr. most obt. & very huml servt, Dani. Roberdeau P.S. A moments delay may be our ruin, which must apologize for my hasty scrawl which I have not time to copy or correct. RC (PHarH). Addressed: “The Honble. James McLene Speaker of the House of Representatives of the Province of Pennsilvania, Lancaster.’’ Endorsed: “Reed. & read in Assy. Feb. 24, 1778, p.m.” 1 See JCC, 10:189. a For the issue of these “displaced Officers,” see William Duer to Francis Lightfoot Lee, February 19, 1778, which was one of the documents Roberdeau enclosed with this letter. Jonathan Bayard Smith to Joseph Reed Dr Sir, Lancaster Feb. 21st. 1778. Yours of 8th met me at this place where I have been very much indisposed with a severe cold. In conformity to your request, I wrote to York town concerning any letters for you, 8c directed them to be sent down. Tomorrow, I expect, I shall go over myself. It gave me real pleasure to find your sentiments on some important subjects so perfectly coincide with my own. In many instances I have dreaded the effects of measures, tho’ at the same time a principle of charity, 8c a confidence in the zealous attachment of those who favored them, almost forbid any suspicions of undue motives. The Generals conduct on occasions truely affecting to a man honor, evinces how much more infintely he prefers the good of his country to any personal considerations. If in any instance Congress has seemed to favor an
