February 22, 1778 159 28. Agreed to apply to the States of New-Jersey, Pennsylvania 8c Maryland 3 to procure Horses for the Cavalry & Sadies. 4 MS (DLC). A continuation of Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, Febru ary 16-20, 1778. In the hand of Francis Dana. 1 For additional comments on the committee’s meeting with Col. John Cox on the subject of his availability for appointment as deputy quartermaster general, see Joseph Reed to Jonathan Bayard Smith, February 24, 1778. “See Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, February 25, 1778. For other com mittee recommendations on the quartermaster general’s department, see also the committee’s letters to Laurens of January 28, February 12 and 24, 1778. 3 See Committee at Camp to Thomas Wharton, February 28, 1778. ‘ For the continuation of these minutes, see Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, March 1-7, 1778. Gouverneur Morris to Robert R. Livingston My dear Friend. Moor Hall Camp Valley Forge 22d Feby 1778 Whether you receive all the Letters I write I know not but this I know that I get none from you which is not pleasing to me. Indeed I ought to write two or three for one because in the first Place one of your Letters is intrisically worth more than mine and would be so valued even by a Bookseller. In the next Place I can only satisfy the idle Curiosity which may arise in the Breast of a Man of Leizure about what is going forward in a foolish World which he says he wishes to retire from. You can inform me of what I love and value most in the World for you can satisfy those Yearnings about the natale Solum which forbid us to be immemorous of it, you can give me a Map of that political Spot which hapless Wanderer as I am I must travel through, above all (excuse a Republican for laying so great a Stress here) you can send me Tidings of the Friends I love and value more than the world. Pray remember me to them all of every Sex, Age and Complection. While I write a Dispute is going on at my Elbow about Taxation which like every other political Subject Every one is as you know a perfect Master of. The Contest is whether Bonds should be taxed. A Gentleman from Massachusetts contends that they should, One from Jersey that they should not. Both may be right. I, as you know, hate disputes but I love the State I was born in and as I am confident this Measure will be followed among our neighbours from a mistaken Policy of the landed Men and possibly from some Propriety in it under our present Circumstances which indeed I cannot see It is my wish to Advantage aliena insania. Let me intreat that nothing of this kind may take Place among us. Thank God our Government is such that the true Interests of the State can be pursued. I have no Money, all the little Property I have is in Land, I therefore speak freely, per-
