February 23, 1778 161 must put on board a proper Person who is acquainted with that Coast. You will give the Flamand all the dispatch in your power. 2 We are Sir, Yr. Obedt servts, Fra. Lewis William Ellery James Forbes P.S. You will make out Triplicates of the Ship Flamands Disburs- ments which you have paid, get the Captain to Sign them, and send them forward to us as soon as you can. We acknowledge the receipt of yours of the 8th Ultimo and return thanks for your attention in giving us a discription of the Flamand. F L WE J F Since writing the above Mr Francey informs that he had left orders with a Freind at Portsmouth to pay the Ships Debts, therefore there is no Occasion for what we have said above. RC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). In the hand of John Brown and signed by Ellery, Forbes, and Lewis. 1 See Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, this date. 2 In a March 3 revision of his February 21 letter to John Langdon, Jean Theveneau de Francy requested Langdon to assist Capt. Fassy in preparing the Flamand’s papers and dispatching the vessel promptly. He also requested Lang don’s cooperation in settling the accounts of Hortalez & Co.: “I am Very much pleased with all the members of the Congress, & I do not expect to meet with the least difficulty; however I cannot Settle nothing, as the different invoices Concern ing what is arrived of our goods upon the Continent, have not been Sent yet to the Commercial Committee; it seems to me you had told me that you Sent last year the amount of what you did received by the Mercury Sc Amphytritte, it was never received; I beg of you to have a copy of it made & to Send it directly along, with the amount of what is come in the packet Niere Bobie & upon le Flammand." Capt. J. G. M. Stone Collection. Although the Committee of Commerce was advanced $20,000 on February 26 to purchase a cargo of rice for the Flamand, her captain subsequently refused to go to South Carolina. See JCC, 10:199; and Committee of Commerce to Langdon, May 7, 1778. A January 11, 1778, letter from Francy to Caron de Beaumarchais, discussing his activities in Portsmouth and Boston since his arrival in America in December, is in Pierre Augustin Caron de Beaumarchais, Beaumarchais Correspondence, ed. Brian N. Morton and Donald C. Spinelli (Paris: A. G. Nizet, 1962-), 4:28-30. Henry Laurens to Matthew Smith Sir, 23d Febry 1778 This Morning I received & presented to Congress your favour of the 16th & agreeable to your request Congress have consented to your
