162 February 23, 1778 resignation. 1 I am sorry that a want of health has obliged you to this measure, I wish you a perfect recovery & am with much Respect, Sir, your obedt. humble Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Lieutt. Colo. Math. Smith of the 9th Pfennsylvania] Regiment, Paxtang, Lancaster County. By James Wilson.” 'See JCC, 10:190. Lt. Colonel Matthew Smith’s February 16 letter to Laurens, in which he announced that he wished to resign his Continental commission be cause he was afflicted with "Several Bodyly Complaints,” is in PCC, item 78, 20:191. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen Feby 23d. 1778 The French Ship Flamand now in Portsmouth New Hampshire is directed by the Committee of Commerce to proceed forthwith to Charles Town in South Carolina there to be laden’d with Rice &c for France. This Ship mounts 18 Six pounders and is navigated with 70 Seamen and fast sailes. The Committees intention is to give this Ship a Commission in expectation of picking some Prizes on the passage to Charles Town, and for that purpose you are requested to send out of your department a Captain and two Lieutenants in the Continental Service who have not at present an Actual command together with Eight or ten Seamen in order to conduct any prizes that may be taken into Port. In navigating the Ship as a Merchant Ship the French Captain is to have the command, but in giving chase or in an engage ment the Continental Captain and his officers are to have the sole direction. The Captain & Officers apptd. to this service should be persons who have some knowledge of the Carolina Coast. They are upon their Arrival at Charles Town to return as soon as may be to their former station in your department. Should they be so fortunate as to take Prizes on the Passage, One half will be set apart for the Continent. The Continental Captain and his Officers will draw one eight and the French Captain and his Officers and Crew will be intitled to the other %ths. If you should or should not be able to procure a suitable Captain, officers and seamen, you will give season able notice thereof to the Continental Agent at Portsmouth that the ship may not be unnecessarily delayed. 1 We have given Orders to our Agent in Maryland to purchase 2000 Barrels flour and 30 Tons bar Iron and to have the same transported to the Inlet of Senepuxent on the Sea Coast in Maryland about 50 Miles to the southward of the Capes of Delaware. 2 You will immediately on receipt hereof dispatch the Continental Schooner at Bedford, and charter as many small fast sailing Vessels and dispatch them for that Port as you shall think will be sufficient to carry the above quantity of Flour to such Ports or places in the
