February 24, 1778 163 Eastern States as you shall think proper to direct. Our Agent William Smith Esqr. will give the necessary orders for having the Vessels loaded immediately on their arrival. You will endeavour to get Mas ters for those Vessels who are acquainted with the Coast and Inlet above mentioned and if you cannot Charter Vessels without Insureing them we empower you so to do having them properly valued. We are, Gentn, Yr hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 “The Continental Agent at Portsmouth,” John Langdon, had also been the subject of a brief February 12 letter from the Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, which requested it to direct Langdon to make future applications for money directly to the board. PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book, fol. 126; and Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 1:201. 2 See the committee’s February 24 letter to William Smith. Daniel Roberdeau to Thomas Wharton Sir York Town Feby. 23d. 1778 The papers by you transmitted to the board of War were refered to Congress, read and committed to be returned, 1 accordingly I do myself the honor of handing them to you, and hope the violators of the Laws of the State will be brought to condign punishment. I am with respectful Salutations to the Honble. Council, Sir, Yr. most obt. & very huml. Serv. Daniel Roberdeau RC (PHarH). 1 These were probably documents read in Congress on February 18 relating to the Board of War’s investigation of the conduct of a British prisoner of war relief party that lodged in Lancaster January 21, 1778. See ]CC, 10:180; Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:216, 268-69; and John Harvie and Gouverneur Morris to the Pennsylvania Council, January 24, 1778, note. Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens Sir Moor Hall 24th Feby. 1778 We have been honored with your several Favors of the twentieth and twenty first Instant with the Enclosures. We now beg Leave to acknowledge the Receipt of them and to assure Congress thro you that their Committee will pay the utmost Attention to their Com mands by placing the Quarter Master’s Department (as far as lies in their Power) upon such a Footing and in such Hands as will provide for the various Wants which now distress the Army and shakle the General and at the same Time to obviate that iniquitous System of Peculation which History informs us hath prevailed in former Ages
