164 February 24, 1778 and in other Countries which our Scale of Observation leads us to believe are not entirely unknown in this. These Sir are Objects of the utmost Importance. Add to these that the Department is at present involved in inextricable Confusion. Genius, Industry, Integrity and the Manner of doing Business are absolutely nay indespensibly necessary. Notwithstanding the Powers which Congress have thought proper to entrust us with we shall not presume absolutely to fix the Appoint ments but are at this Instant engaged in making all the necessary Arrangements after which we will submit the whole to them Not doubting but that we shall be able to put Matters in such a Train as will produce desirable Consequences. The principal Gentlemen are now with us and hope so far to complete the Business this Day. 1 We are Sir, your most obedient & humble Servants, Fra Dana by Order RC (DNA: PCC, item 33). Written by Gouverneur Morris and signed by Dana. 'The committee completed its work on the quartermaster general’s department on the next day. See Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, February 22-28; and Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, February 25, 1778. Samuel Huntington to Jabez Huntington Sir York Town 24th February 1778 You will See King Gorge’s Speach at the opening of his parliament before this comes to hand which is as late as any Intelligence we have from there. The Assembly of Virginia have fully approved & acceeded to the Articles of Confederation; have not heard the determination of any other State on the Subject. A general Cartel for exchange of prisoners hath taken place be tween Generals Washington & Howe, 1 which is all the Intelligence I am able to communicate more than you will find in the public papers. I am Sir with much Esteem, your humble Servant, Sami Huntington RC (CtHi). 1 See Eliphalet Dyer to William Williams, February 17, 1778, note 7. Henry Laurens to George Clinton Sir, 24th Febry 1778. My last to your Excellency was dated the 19th Inst. & went by Messenger Brown.
