166 February 24, 1778 Congress, this would probably have happened, had your Letter ex hibited either or both in an unfavourable light. Be all this as it may, when I say you merit thanks for your attention to the public welfare in your department, I believe I speak the senti ments of every Member of Congress. Notwithstanding the great discouragement given by the present sluggishness of public Spirit, let us proceed Sir, set our faces against the phalanx of Avarice & peculation, however countenanced by splendid Characters, however powerful & triumphant, & through good Report & Evil Report strive, &: we shall at length stem the power of those Engines calculated for our destruction & played by the hands of Enemies in disguise. These will otherwise soon shew to the World, our pretended work of Independency a second Babel in perspective. I am with great Respect &ca. P.S. 25th A.M. the Messenger having been unavoidably detained affords me an opportunity of adding, that I have presented your Letter to Congress & that it was well received & your conduct ap plauded. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 In this letter Samuel A. Otis, the deputy clothier general in Massachusetts, described his efforts to carry out the resolves Congress had passed on December 31, 1777, to enable him to purchase clothing for the Continental Army at fair prices. See PCC, item 78, 17:285-87; and JCC, 9:1071-73. 3 Jonathan Jackson was a Massachusetts merchant who had tried to charge Otis “2000 per Cent’’ for clothing and who therefore may very well have thought that Congress’ December 31, 1777, resolves against extortionate sellers were personally directed at him. See PCC, item 78, 17:285-87. Henry Laurens to Thomas Wharton Sir. York Town 24th Feby 1778 I had the honour of writing to Your Excellency the 21st. Yesterday Mr. Joseph Simons of Lancaster addressed Congress with a Letter which Your Excellency will find inclosed—meaning as he has explained, to obtain permission for going within the Enemy’s Lines in order to account with Mr Franks. Congress judged it best to refer this application, for determination, to the Supreme Council of the State; thence Your Excellency receives the present trouble. 1 I am with great Regard & Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (CtY). 1 Although Congress noted receipt o£ a February 18 letter from Joseph Simons, he is not mentioned in the Pa. Council Minutes or the correspondence in Pa. Archives, 1st ser., and it is not known how the Pennsylvania Council disposed of his request to enter the British lines. JCC, 10:190.
