February 24, 1778 167 Marine Committee to William Smith Sir February 24th 1778 We request you will immediately on receipt hereof purchase 2000 Barrels of Common Flour with 30 Tons of bar Iron and forward the same as soon as may to Senepuxent with directions to a proper person there to receive and deliver the same to such Masters of Vessels as shall arrive there for that purpose. We have by Express this day directed the Navy Board for the Eastern Department to send from thence round to Senepuxent small fast sailing Vessels that may be sufficient to take off the above quantity. We shall apply to Congress for money to enable you in the execu tion which we shall send you by the first safe conveyance. 1 We shall rely upon your care and expedition in this affair & are Sir, Your humble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). ’On April 11 Congress authorized the committee to send their Baltimore agent Smith $10,000 to purchase the flour and iron. JCC, 10:338. The committee’s April 14 letter informing Smith that this money would be delivered by Capt. David Porter is in PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book, fol. 141, and Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 1:228. See also Marine Committee to William Smith, January 10 and June 19; and Committee of Commerce to Francis Lewis, Jr., March 6, 1778, note 2. Joseph Reed to Jonathan Bayard Smith Dear Sir Moore Hall Feb. 24. 1778 It gives me much Concern that our Business proceeds slower than Congress seem to expect. I trusted that our private Communications would at least have softned the Violence of Expectation. We attribute most of the Peculation, Waste, & Derangement of our Affairs to an injudicious Choice of Officers. With these Sentiments you must not be surprized to find us cautious &: slow, especially in a Department of so much Confidence &: Power as that of a Qr. Master General. When we see Confusion & Disorder reigning thro the whole Army by the Defects of this Office & unaccounted Millions, we think we cannot be too cautious &: esteem it Time well spent to look out the most worthy Characters, & draw them into the publick Service. I hinted to you that we had a Design on Col. Cox. We sent for him & he is now with us. But you know he is a Man of too much Sagacity to engage without due Consideration of all Circumstances. He is employed in very extensive Concerns both of Iron & Salt for which he has made great Preparations the Benefit of which he must lose & alter his whole Arrangements. You will not wonder therefore if he takes Time & I
