168 February 24, 1778 believe you will agree that if he can be brought in we shall have a Prospect of bringing Order out of this Confusion. I presume you understand from what I mentioned before than Gen. Green is to be at the Head of the Department, Col. Cox to stand second, 8c they are to have the Appointment of their Subs. Be not misled, my good Friend, with Utopian Ideas of dividing Departments & Offices which the Practice 8c Experience of all Nations shew us ought to be united. Wander as far as we will from established Rules 8c Systems we shall find sooner or later we must return. A Dislike 8c even Rage against every Thing English has precipitated us into a Labyrinth of Error & Expence from which the wisest Heads will find it difficult to extricate us. We are resolved not to be Parties in plunging you deeper; if we cannot raise the publick above Water we shall at least let you feel your own Way. Characters fit for the Department are not to be found in the Army; if they were your Affairs would not be in the wretched Condition they now are. If we have the World to chuse out of; Congress can select better than we can; their Knowledge is more extensive 8c should they err they will not have the same kind of Responsibility. I know you cry out precious Time is wasting, it is so but great Haste is not often the best Speed. Experience must tell you how easy it is to put a Man in Office 8c how difficult to get him out. There has been to use an odd Expression a Gullibility 1 in Congress that has surprized me. How many rash Appointments have been made which we all lament 8c the Consequences of which we feel thro the whole System. You will therefore my good Sir, oblige us if you will in a Way of which you are very capable vindicate us from the Imputation of causeless Delay. I am anxious to hear whether you have received a long Letter I wrote you about 10 Days ago. The Messenger waits so that I have only Time to desire my best Regards to our Associates 8c add that I am with sincere Regard, Dr Sir, Your most obed. 8c very Hbble Serv. Jos. Reed [P.S.] One James Woolard a Post or Express from Congress has been taken by a Party of the Enemy’s Tory light Horse. RC (DLC). 1 Although the usage of Gullibility was in decline by the late 18th century, gullibility was apparently seldom used before the 19th century. OED. Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens Sir Camp near Valley Forge, Feby. 25. 1778 Agreeable to the Promise made in our Letter of yesterday, we
