February 25, 1778 169 have in Concert with the General, compleated the Arrangement of the Quarter Master Generals Department; which now only waits for the Fiat of Congress. By your Resolutions of the 5th Inst. 1 we find, that it is the Intention of Congress, to divide the Quarter Master’s Department into four capital Branches. The Quarter Master properly so called: The Commissary of Forage; the Commissary of Horses Sec, and the Agent of Purchases. Permit us, Sir, to represent that so many independent Officers without a controuling Chief, must necessarily involve Interference with each other, infinite Confusion, 8c a Variety of Controversies, which must be terminated by the Commander in Chief, or in other Words, that the General must be, what he has been during the last Campaign, the Quarter Master General of the Army. Besides this, we have to observe farther, that each of these Officers must necessarily be empowered to draw publick Money, 8c of Con sequence, that the Chance of Frauds, & Amount of Expenditures will be greatly increased by so many separate Departments. Add to this, that when any Abuses, & more particularly when any Deficiencies shall be felt, it will be easy for these Gentlemen to shift the Blame from one to the other, rendering it impracticable to detect either Ignorance, Indolence, or Inequity. Many additional Reasons might be adduced to shew 2 how dangerous such an Experiment may prove; but the Wisdom of Congress will doubtless supply them, & upon reconsider ing this Business in all its Connections, 8c Dependencies see a Propriety in placing this very executive Department, under one controuling superintending Power, whose Activity, 8c Influence may regulate, pervade & animate the whole System. Let us now, Sir, cast our Glance upon the Administration of Affairs heretofore. We mean not to censure or commend, but it is our Duty to inform. We hesitate not to say, that the Abuses which have crept in are such, that no Finances can support a System like the present. Men without Morals, without Character, 8c without Property have been, 8c are intrusted with the Disposal of publick Money, 8c private Property. The Number of little, piddling, pilfering Plunderers in the Character of Deputies, 8c Deputies Assistants is sufficient almost to form an Army, 8c does form a kind of Army, not indeed to act against the Enemies, but against the Friends of America; to sour the Minds of the People, 8c exhaust the Resources of the Country. And not only is the Expence almost infinite; the Neglect is as great perhaps as fatal. This may appear to be the Language of Exaggera tion, but whatever Ideas arise from a View of the general Complexion, they fall much short when we examine some particular Features. We are told, Sir, that in some capital Purchases, the enormous Commis sion of 5 per Cent hath been allowed: We know that the publick pay 2i/> per Cent upon every Ounce of Forage consumed by this Army. We fear that publick Teams have been employed at the publick
