174 February 25, 1778 We understand Dr. Parke & a Son in Law of James Pemberton (named Morton) have without any Permission from Head Quarters passed thro’ on their Way to Winchester, we beg Leave to submit to Congress how far such Freedoms ought to pass unnoticed & whether it will not be adviseable to prevent their returning. 6 We have been much surprized lately to find that the Resolution of Congress passed last October empowering a Court Martial to try Persons other than of the Army who shall be found carrying on an Intercourse with the Enemy, will not reach those Villains who come out to kidnap & deliver to the Enemy the active Friends of their Country. 7 There are a Number of these Offenders now in Custody who must either escape with Impunity (the Court martial having declined passing upon them) or they must be executed by the special Authority of the General. An Authority which he will not exercise but in Cases of the last Necessity. We submit to Congress whether it is not necessary to revise the above Resolution & also to give some Direction about these Criminals whose Discharge will greatly dis hearten our Friends & give just Cause of Alarm & Discontent to the faithful Adherents of these States. Besides the great Encouragement given to these Practices if no Punishment can be devised for those now in our Hands, we fear it will bring any farther Resolution of Congress on this Subject into Contempt & in a great Degree coun tenance the dangerous Intercourse carried on between the City & the dissafected of the Country. 8 RC (DNA: PCC, item 33). Written by Joseph Reed and signed by Francis Dana. FC (DNA: PCC, item 22). In the hand of Joseph Reed. ’See JCC, 10:126. 2 In the FC the following passage was deleted at this point: “that Congress have been deceived into the Resolutions above mentioned from Misinformation or some other Cause but we cannot go so far as we could wish into this Business at present.” 3 In the FC the following passage was deleted: “supposing (what from the Silence of Congress on that Head we suppose it to be the Fact) that he would not be appointed.” 4 Responding quickly to the committee’s new proposed "Arrangement”—“instead of that agreed on the 5 day of February”—Congress appointed Nathanael Greene quartermaster general and named John Cox and Charles Pettit his assistants the same day this letter was read in Congress, March 2, 1778. Congress also resolved to allow them commissions of I percent and granted the quartermaster general the appointment of “forage masters, waggon masters, and other officers in the depart ment.” See JCC, 10:210. See also Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, January 28 and February 12; and Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, February 22-28, 1778. 3 In the FC the following passage was deleted: “is worth to him at least ten thousand Pounds annually.” ’On March 2, Congress directed the Board of War to order the apprehension and confinement of “said Parke and Morton.” JCC, 10:211. See also Laurens to Dana, March 3, 1778, note 3. 7 JCC, 9:783-84.
