176 February 25, 1778 if he can by claims of right obtain the necessary relief, the great purpose will be answered & himself not unnecessarily subjected to obligation. The latter I mention, only in reference to the feelings of every Gentleman, not from my own estimation of such Acts which are indispensably our duty when such occasions call. I beg you will Dear General, do me the honour to present me in the most respectful terms to the Marquis, 2 I have nothing worthy his notice at this moment otherwise it should be employed in paying my devoirs to His Excellency. ’Tis not impossible but that something may accompany or speedily follow this, which may veil the gay prospects of the Duplessis, the Fluery’s 8cca &ca. 3 If any such thing shall happen I shall sympathize with those ardent Sons of Mars, just so long as Wisdom & sound policy will countenance their Mourn ing. I bear a grateful remembrance of their merits & they are always included in my good wishes. I had almost forgot to inclose under this Cover the Letter you sent for Monsr. delaBalme, he left York a few days ago & probably will be with you before this Address. Dear General, excuse the un avoidable effects of being hurried by Rivers, & be assured I am with the most perfect Esteem & Respect. LB (ScHi). l A transcript of Kalb’s February 14 letter to Laurens is in the Laurens Papers, ScHi. 2 Lafayette. 3 Congress was already having serious doubts about the wisdom and practicability of Lafayette’s projected assault on Canada, and on March 2 it decided to suspend the enterprise. JCC, 10:217. Kalb was Lafayette’s second in command. Jonathan Bayard Smith to Joseph Reed Dr. Sir York Town Feb. 25th. 1778 On arriving at this place I find myself indebted to you for two letters. I wish the idea of employing Genl. Schuyler in the department referred to could have met the approbation of Congress. 1 Besides the objections arising from his present situation which founded the de clared impediment, I found on conversing with gentlemen privately that they feared the ill effects of an intrigueing mind; a temper un friendly to the dispositions of officers in the army 8c its peace; 8c that out of the sphere of his particular influence 8c knowlege of the country he would not be able to conduct the great business. This last objec tion I own was counter to every idea I had formed of the man. Colo. Cox will be an happy acquisition to the public in any line. But in the line intended I beleive he may be peculiarly useful. His veiws 8c schemes of his own are many 8c extensive; however I hope he will
