February 28, 1778 181 and the Gentlemen in Authority with you will fully concur with us in the propriety and necessity of recruiting this Corps with all pos sible dispatch, and favor us with your best assistance in so doing. The Regiments are nearly completed with Men Natives of the Country whose time of Service in the Infantry having expired, readily enlisted in the Horse. These Men inured to fatigue, danger and discipline have only to learn the special duties of that Service, and will form excellent Dragoons. The great difficulty under which the Service labours is the want of Horses and Saddles to mount them. On the one hand to wait the Tedious process of collecting Horses in the common mode by purchase either by Officers or Agents uncontroled by any immediate Authority will occasion great fraud and delay. On the other hand to use force in any degree appears oppressive and leaves such lasting discontent in the minds of the sufferers as not only sours and disaffects to the general Interests of the Country but to the particular State where the exertion is made. We have been therefore extreemly solicitous to find some expedient to reconcile these clashing Duties, an expedient which may provide for the present exigence of the service without wounding too deeply those feelings and attach ments which all Men have for their property in a greater or lesser degree. At length Sir, as the safer and more effectual mode we have concluded to rely on the wisdom and public spirit of the Gentlemen in Authority in this and the neighbouring States, and to request their exertions in the following mode. We have made calculations of the number of Horses and common country Saddles and Bridles proper for the Cavalry which may be had from Virginia, Maryland, Dela ware, Pensilvania &: New-Jersey respectively. The State we suppose will then calculate what number the several Counties can furnish by a reasonable assessment, and then appoint proper persons in the Country to purchase them on the best terms they can, allways attend ing to the following description. That the Horse be sound and clean limbed not less than Five years old this Spring, nor exceeding Twelve years—Geldings at least 14i/2 hands high and not less than one quarter blooded. We do not limit any price either as a purchase money, or a compensation to those employed in the business, because we presume they will be men of integrity and property who besides the Interest they have in common with us that the public expences be not causelessly enhanced will have a due regard to their own charac ters. In order to provide for payment it is proposed that a number of Loan Office Certificates be lodged with the Executive Authority of the State to be paid on the First Day of May under such Limitations and Checks as will most effectually guard against Fraud or Mistake, The whole amount to be finally settled between Congress and the State when the business is completed. We must request that the persons who may be appointed to make the purchases, be directed
