182 February 28, 1778 from time to time to make returns of their doings in this business to yourself, and that you wou’d please to order a general return to be made to the Quarter-Master-General, and also to the Board of War. The number of Horses, Sadies and Bridles estimated for this State is Two hundred and fifty which we beleive will not appear by any means too large for its resources. We doubt not but on this occasion your Excellency and the Gentlemen of the Legislature will favor us with a continuance of those exertions, the beneficial effects of which we have already experienced. We greatly regret that this business has been so long delayed, and fear the service will suffer in con sequence of it as some time is necessary to train the Horses before they can be brought into the field. We hope therefore it will receive all possible forwardness from the Gentlemen who are to take it up as the utillity of the measure will depend greatly on dispatch. We are Sir, Your most obedient, humble Servants, Fra Dana, by Order RC (PHi). Written and signed by Francis Dana. ’The committee wrote nearly identical letters this day to Thomas Johnson, governor of Maryland, and William Livingston, governor of New Jersey, assigning them quotas of 350 and 300 horses respectively. See Md. Archives, 16:522-24; and PCC item 192, fols. 143-46. Committee of Commerce to Edward Hand Dear Sir Commercial Committee, York Town 28 Febry. 1778 Application having been made to this Committee, by Col. Anthony Steel, D P Q Mr. General, in your Department, for the payment of a Bill drawn by Capt James Willing on said Col. Steel in favor of John Gibson or order, for Three hundred pounds, as also for payment of an account for sundry Articles he furnished Capt James Willing for the use of the armed Boat Rattle Trap’s Crew, amounting to Two hundred and fifteen pounds, 12/6. It appearing on the Minuts of this Committee, that by a letter dated 21st Novemr. last, directed to you Sir, you were requested to supply Capt James Willing with a Boat, and all other necessaries, for his intended Expedition. 1 —In order that the same may be con ducted through ’its proper channel, we must now request you Sir, to Issue your order to the said Depy. Qr. Masr. General for the payment of both the above sums, pursuant to our endorssments thereon. We are Sir, Your very Humble Servants, Fras Lewis William Ellery James Forbes
