February 28, 1778 183 RC (NN). Addressed: “The Honble Brigadr General Hand att Fort Pitt. Favored by Col. Steel.” Written by Lewis and signed by Lewis, Ellery, and Forbes. 1 See Committee of Commerce to Oliver Pollock, November 21, 1777, note 1, and to Robert Morris, February 21, 1778, note 4. Marine Committee to Nathaniel Shaw, Jr. Sir February 28th 1778 We have received your Letter of the 2d instant & in consequence of your demand for money you have advanced for the Marine Service we have paid Mr. John Hertell whom you sent for that purpose Five thousand Dollars and have delivered to him a Warrant on the Loan Office of your State for thirty five thousand Dollars making 40,000 Dollars to your debit. Since the appointment of the Navy Board at Boston it has been our determination that all applications for Money and other Matters relative to Marine affairs should be made to them, for which reason we have charged that Board with the above sum and you must Credit them for the same. As it is high Time your Accounts with the Marine Department were settled, we request that you will with All expedition produce them to the Navy Board who will settle and pay the balance that may be due to you and in future you are to be governed intirely by their directions in Marine Affairs. 1 We are sir, Your hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The committee’s letter this day to the Eastern Navy Board, advising them of payment to Shaw, the Continental prize agent at New London, Conn., and request ing that “when he furnishes his Account Current you will please to transmit to us a Copy thereof for our Inspection before we order payment of the balance,” is in PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book, fol. 129, and Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 1:205-6. Jonathan Bayard Smith to Thomas Wharton Sir York Town Feb. 28. 1778 On other side you have copy of a letter yesterday Evenning read in Congress. 1 It was referred to a Committee whose report you shall be made acquainted with. As I was that day confined to my bed cannot say what strictures were made on the subject by Congress. The packet of copies 2 was returned to me from the ferry as the river was impassable. I this morning had the honor of forwarding it by Genl. Wilkinson. I am, Sir, with very great respect, your Excellencys & Councils very humble Servant, Jona. B Smith
