March 1, 1778 189 P.S. General Burgoyne has remonstrated with Congress on the suspen sion of the embarkation of his Troops, which has made no impression except, if I may speak my own feelings, to confirm my sentiments on the propriety of the Act of Congress of the 8th Jany. 3 By a subsequent application, which shews he had not entertained very sanguine expec tations of success in the first, he applies for leave to embark himself 8c family for Great Britain upon certain conditions—this will be granted. 4 His several addresses are decent 8c unexceptionable. I trust great good will arise from the politeness 8c Civility of Congress, con trasted with the treatment of American Officers, prisoners of the Britons, 8c we have remaining time 8c Subjects enough for retaliation admitting we shall be driven to necessity. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). ’Governor Caswell’s February 7 letter to Laurens is in PCC, item 59, 1:81, and N.C. State Records, 13:22-23. Enclosed with it were various papers relating to the case of Capt. John Folger, who was under confinement in Lancaster because of his suspected complicity in the theft of some dispatches from the American commis sioners in France to Congress. See PCC, item 59, 1:83-108. Congress finally decided on May 8 that there was no evidence to prove Folger had been involved in the purloining of these documents and ordered his release. See JCC, 11:482. For further information about this case, see Committee Examination of John Folger, January 12, 1778. ’This day Laurens also sent copies of these two February 26 resolves to Govs. Thomas Johnson of Maryland and Patrick Henry of Virginia and President Thomas Wharton of Pennsylvania. PCC, item 13, fols. 203-5. In addition, he transmitted copies of the February 26 resolve on supplies for British prisoners of war to Commissary of Prisoners Elias Boudinot, Clothier General James Mease, and Director General of Hospitals William Shippen, Jr. Ibid., fols. 202-3. Finally, this day he sent copies of the February 26 resolve on British prisoners and a February 21 resolve “on the propriety of keeping a dep. Pay Master at Baltimore’’ to Pay master General William Palfrey. MH-H. 3 That is, the resolve suspending the Saratoga Convention, which would have allowed Gen. John Burgoyne’s captured army to return to England. See JCC, 10:34-35. ‘ Congress decided on March 3 to allow General Burgoyne, “the officers of his family and his servants" to return to England. JCC, 10:218. See also Laurens to Richard Wilford, March 1, and to John Burgoyne, March 6, 1778. Henry Laurens to Francis Dana Dear Sir, 1st March 1778. ’Tis now late Sunday Evening 8c your favor of the 25th Ulto. 1 has but this Instant made its appearance, had it been less deliberate in its progress 8c not made so long a halt at the Waggon Tavern I might yesterday have received authority for confirming your Acts in the ar rangement of the Quarter Mr. General’s department. As the case now Stands, to morrow is mortgaged 8c it will be difficult to bring the
