192 March 1, 1778 Manned & lay ready to Sail on the 28 January intended to attack the little Squadron of the Enemy which consisted of a Frigate of 28, one of 20 Guns 8c two Armed Brigantines. We shall soon hear the Issue of this enterprize; if good, it will be more than I expect. We out reckon the Enemy in Guns & Men, but their experience & discipline made an overmatch of two to one against us. If we are beat the loss will be felt severely in the 1st & 2d Regiments which have contributed large Officers & Men for the expedition. I hope their bravery will be re warded with success. What shall I do for my Dear son reduced to Breeches, there is not an Inch of such Cloth as you want in York. James made one search & a Taylor upon whom I can depend, a second, 8c both returned empty, our hopes of a supply from Charles Town are cut off. I must write to Baltimore 8c to Boston, why had not my Dear Son laid in a larger stock. He will find the Doctrine of equalizing altogether inconsistent with Military uniformity. Here’s a fragment of Blue Cloth just enough the Taylor says to make you a Coat. I would give the value of ten pair of Breeches rather than learn or think 8c I shall now be continually thinking so—that you are confined to one pair dirty or tattered. You will learn in time to make better provision for your self. I suspect that some in your Army supply themselves with necessary articles from the City 2 8c hold it no more criminal to do so in the present state of affairs than it was of old for a Religious hungry David to eat the hallowed Bread of Ahimelec when there happened to be none other. Indeed in all the States the Resolve against purchasing British Manufactures in cases of extremity hath been dispensed with—8c it is a moot point in my mind whether we ought any longer to adhere to the Rule. 3 There is much to be said in favor of a Repeal. The article of Powder was promised by my Hair Dresser but he has not brought it in. James will go 8c enquire for it, if he succeeds you will receive it by the bearer of this. We hear repeated Accounts of advantages gained by the Enemy in small parties making Prisoners daily of Officers 8c Men from your Army—that the Major of a Colonel Stuart, together with a Company of Taylors 8c all the Clothing intended for the Colonel’s Regiment were taken at New Town by a party of twenty Light Horse 8c the Major at the head of the Taylors beyond doubt, paraded into the City—that desertions are numerous 8c continued every day—8c in a word that Your Camp is in the power of General Howe 8c that he may compel you to fly from it when he pleases 8c leave your Baggage 8c Artillery, or give you the Choice of being Prisoners of War or cut to peices. I was just going to ask, are these things so? when a LJetter] from the Committee came to hand, 4 which informs me of an irreparable
