196 March 1, 1778 Special demand for the restitution of that Officer. I have the honour to be with the highest Regard &ca LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 'See JCC, 10:179, 194, 197-98. In his January 30 and February 10 letters to General Howe, Washington had defended Congress against the British general’s criticism of its handling of prisoners of war and its suspension of the Saratoga Convention. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:408-9, 444T6. Howe had offered these criticisms in letters to Washington of January 19 and February 5, not February 25. Washington Papers, DLC. Henry Laurens to Richard Wilford Sir, 1st March 1778. I duly received your Notes of yesterday’s & the present date, the latter accompanied by the No. 2—intimated when you did me the honour of a visit the other day. These shall be, meaning the Packet & the paper contained in it presented to Congress to morrow Morning, thence according to the ordinary course of business the papers will be referred to a Committee, & the necessary or usual forms will cost two or three days which might have been saved had the packet been earlier delivered, for I learn the Committee on No. 1. are prepared to Report at the next Meeting of Congress. Be that as it may, rest assured Sir, of my endeavors to bring the whole under consideration without the formality of a second reference, from the tenor of Lieutt. General Burgoyne’s application in No. 2 which I think may be com prized in one question, there is some prospect of succeeding. 1 I am with great Respect &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 Lt. Richard Wilford, an aide-de-camp to Gen. John Burgoyne, had brought to York two letters from Burgoyne to President Laurens dated February 11. In the first, which was read in Congress on February 26 and referred to a committee of five, Burgoyne rejected congressional charges that he had violated the Saratoga Convention and asked the delegates to repeal their January 8 suspension of this agreement so that he and his captured army could proceed to England. While this letter was still under consideration Wilford presented Burgoyne’s second letter, in which the general asked permission for “myself, the officers of my family . . . and my servants” to return to England in the event Congress persisted in its refusal to implement the convention. Congress referred this letter to the same committee and on the basis of its reports decided on March 2 to confirm the suspension of the convention, although on the following day it did grant permission to Burgoyne and his dependents to return to England. At the same time, however, the delegates turned down requests by Burgoyne to allow three other officers not of his family to accompany him to England, and by Wilford to transmit to Gen. William Howe via Washington copies of other papers from Burgoyne he had brought with Burgoyne’s letter. Instead Congress ordered Wilford to give copies of the papers for Howe to the Board of War for eventual transmittal. On the other hand
