198 March 2, 1778 tions for Merit (vid Proceedings of the Board). 12th Novr Congress by their Resolution confirm this Prin ¬ ciple (vid Resolve). 4 29th Congress direct the Genl, to regulate the Rank of Genls. Arnold, Woodford and Scott agreable to their Resolution of the 12th Novr. (vid Re solve of 29th). 5 Genl. Arnolds Rank hath been regulated ac cordingly and he placed in the Position he would have held if originally promoted accord ing to the Rank he then held. Claim Woodford claims to Rank as the eldest Brigr. because before his Resignation he was the eldest Colo, to which Resignation he was compelled by the Injustise done him. To this Claim Scott assents but Mulenbergh & Weedon oppose it upon the Principle that Woodford having resigned held no Rank at the time of his Promotion. Scott claims to Rank before Weedon because he did so when they were Colonels. To this Claim Weedon objects. The within Case and the Claims thereon having been referred to the Committee of Congress they request the Opinion of a Board of General Officers on the foregoing State of Facts which is submitted to them as more properly cognizable by Gentlemen of the Army than those in a civil Line. Fra Dana, by Order MS (DNA: PCC, item 33). Written by Gouverneur Morris and signed by Francis Dana. ■The committee prepared this “State of the Case” of the seniority among four Virginia brigadier generals as an aid to a board of officers which had been convened by General Washington at the committee’s request. The committee had originally conferred with Gens. William Woodford, George Weedon, and Charles Scott on February 14 and prepared a “State of Facts relative to the claims of Brigadier General Mulenburgh, Weedon, Woodford & Scott,” to which they obtained the signatures of each officer except Peter Muhlenberg, who was absent in Virginia. They then sent the signed statement to Washington and recommended that he convene a board of general officers to obtain their opinion on the claims summarized. That document remains in the Washington Papers, DLC. Before the board of officers convened on March 4, however, the committee pre pared the statement which is printed here and which contains more detailed information on the case, especially the substance of several resolutions of Congress relating to seniority. Subsequently the board unanimously reported that, “in the original promotion of Those Gentlemen . . . They ought to have been Arranged in The following Manner, viz. Woodford, Mulenburgh, Scott, Weeden.” On March 19 Congress accepted this “opinion” and directed Washington to issue the four generals new commissions.
