200 March 2, 1778 is not taking them by the strongest Side) he suggests the Propriety of making out the Terms upon which they are to be taken in Service and this in Writing from Congress but how far this may be proper we will not pretend to say, submitting it entirely to your superior Discretion. Colo. Gist also expects the Liberty to take with him a faithful Assistant, who is to provide for the Indians upon their Route, a Busi ness which it is impracticable for the Principal to attend to, his time being taken up in the Management of those whom he conducts, pre venting or adjusting little Differences which arise between them and the Inhabitants and the like. When the Savages shall have arrived it will be necessary to have with them Interpreters, as there would be Danger in permitting them to go out in detached Parties without the Power of making themselves understood. Indeed there would be great use in having a few Men from their Neighbourhood to serve as Irregulars with them which would prevent perhaps Mistakes which might be fatal. For these Reasons the Colo, thinks it would be proper to employ some few Interpreters and also to enlist for the special Service about fifty Men, of which as many as possible are to understand the Indian Language. Upon the whole sir we cannot but think that much Good would arise from employing these turbulent Borderers as they would cer tainly keep the Enemy Compact, prevent Desertion in our Troops, make us Masters of Intelligence and give us Pledges of their Fidelity. We are, sir, respectfully, your most obedient &: humble servants. Fra. Dana, by Order RC (DNA: PCC, item 33). Written by Gouverneur Morris and signed by Francis Dana. Endorsed: “Letter from the Comee. of Congress at Camp March 2, 1778. read 6. referred to the board of war. (Acted Upon).” 'For the committee’s previous letter recommending the employment of Indians with the army, see Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, February 20, 1778. 2 For a discussion of irregular warfare in 18th-century Europe, see Peter E. Rus sell, “Redcoats in the Wilderness: British Officers and Irregular Warfare in Europe and America, 1740 to 1760,” William and Mary Quarterly, 3d ser. 35 (October 1978): 629-52. Committee for Foreign Affairs to William Bingham Sir York Town 2d March 1778 The Committee of Secret correspondence, which almost a year ago was denominated the “Committee for foreign Affairs’’ stands indebted to you for many letters both of interesting advice and ingenious political speculation. Happening to be the only member of that Committee at present in York Town, I now take up my pen, not to form apoligies for their long past silence so much as to make a begin-
