208 March 3, 1778 noncomd. Officers to write a good Hand. Duty of the Corps to repair Injuries done to Works by the Enemy’s Fire & to prosecute Works in the Face of it. {The Corps to be under the Direction of the Chief Engineer and to have the Care of the intrenching Tools.) RC (DNA: PCC, item 33). Written by Gouverneur Morris and signed by Francis Dana. Enclosure: MS (DLC). In the hand of Morris and Dana. 1 See Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, February 5, 1778. ’Another copy of the enclosure’s second page, entitled “Arrangement of the Engineering Department” and in Dana’s hand, is in PCC, item 33, fol. 109, where it was later placed among the enclosures with the committee’s February 5 letter to Laurens on the arrangement of the army. • For congressional response to this request, see Henry Laurens to William Heath, March 7, 1778, note. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson Dear Sir York Town March 3. 1778 Your several favours of the 7, 14 &: 26 January & 4 Ultimo are now before me. I have lately had one of the Severest fitts of the Gout, I ever had in my life, I have been confined to my room these 5 Weeks unable to help myself, having it in both feet, one knee & my right hand & arm, it is with great pain that I am able to hold a pen in my hand this day. I am sorry to hear Meridith is taken, I wish the fact could be Assertained in regard to his being put in Irons &c. Jackey is not yet with me; Mr. Mitchel promises to send him as soon as the weather will permit. I think I shall bring him home with me, as we are likely to have Warm work the Next Campaign, you may for the present send him to Mecklingburg School. In yours of the 26 Jany. I received Coll Kennons Bills on the Continental Treasury, Viz No. 25, Bill for 1000, No 26 for 1000, No 33 for 500, No 34 for 500, No 35 for 500 ammounting in the whole to 3,500 Dollars. I shall present them for payment as soon as I am Able to Attend the Treasury bord, which I hope will be in a very few days. 1 I am sorry indeed for the great Loss sustained by the Inhabitants of Charles Town, it was a dreadful fire. I write Mr. Maclain a few lines by this Post &: shall write my friend Hooper very fully by the Next. 2 Our Army remains as before at Valey Forge. Unless the several States exert themselves to compleat their Batalions Our Continental Army will Cut a poor figure in the Spring, we have not even heard of a Schyrmish lately. I hope to see you in April & am, Dr Sir, Your affect & Obed Servt, CornL Harnett [P.S.] In the midst of my Distress, my Man Sawney ran away from me. I have with much ado hired a little Dutch Boy to make a fire for me. A Servant is not to be had here. I beg you will hire Herons Josh to
