March 3, 1778 209 come to me or some other free man. I don’t know whether I shall ever get Sawney again, it is said he intended to go to Philadelphia. He turned Out to be one of the greatest Villains Living, if I was to tell you some parts of his behaviour it would amaze you. You may pur chase a horse for Josh if he’ll Come, & I can perhaps sell the horse here for as much as he Costs. Yours &c C. H. RC (Nc-U). 1 On March 7 President Laurens laid before Congress the bills of the late Col. William Kennon, acting paymaster and commissary to Virginia and North Carolina troops serving in Georgia. A week later the board of treasury reported in favor of paying Kennon’s bills, but Congress rejected this report and ordered it to be recom mitted. Not until October 30, 1778, when Congress next considered the issue, did it order payment of Kennon’s bills. See JCC, 10:232, 255-57, 12:1071, 1079. 2 Neither of these letters has been found. John Henry to Thomas Johnson Sir. York Town March Sth. 1778. I was informed some Time ago by Col. Smith, that the recruiting Service was much injured for the want of the continental Bounty. If that is the case I should be glad to be informed of it. The Treasury here will now supply it. 1 Genl. Green is made quarter Master Gen eral, this I hope will be attended with the most happy effects. The Expedition into Canada is suspended for the present and the Troops ordered to the North River for the fortification and defence of it. I am Sir with great respect, your obedt. and hble Servt. J Henry Junr. RC (MdAA). 1 See Henry to Johnson, March 6, 1778. Henry Laurens to Francis Dana Sir, 3d March 1778 Yesterday I had the honour of sending forward a Letter written the preceeding Evening as a private to yourself to which I beg leave to refer. Congress upon my presenting the Committees Letter from Camp dated the 25th Febry, entered upon the subject without hesitation & confirmed divers Resolves which you will find in the Inclosed Act of yesterday’s date by which you will be pleased to govern your future proceedings relative to the department of Quarter Master General.
