March 3, 1778 211 Dollars. You wrote only for Cloths but where are materials for mak ing up. Mr Hair Dresser recommends to you to substitute flour until he can by his art procure a better article for your hair. In my last dispatches I forwarded a miniature of the General to Mrs Washington from Majr. Rodgers which he packeted in my presence & requested my care of. I think I have seen a performance of yours which discovered superior skill; maybe I am mistaken, but be that as it may, if you have materials, time & inclination you will do me a singular pleasure by sending me a half length of your draught. 2 The Major says the General has a remarkable dead Eye. This did not strike me in either of the three or four times when I saw him. Once I had as good a veiw as Candle light could afford & I am seldom deficient in such strictures. General Burgoyne has transmitted to Congress a long remonstrative Epistle on the Suspension, to which we shall return a very laconic 8c decisive answer. This event must have been preconceived by the un fortunate General, who had therefore put into the hands of his Aid de Camp a Messenger Capt Wilford a No. 2 to be delivered after the receipt of our answer, but without waiting, he enabled me to report it yesterday. This contains a request, that himself 8c certain Officers chiefly of his family may under proper restrictions embark for England. I have communicated to several Members my sentiments and I believe a vote will pass in his favor Nemine Contradicente. I think good may be produced from this Political condescension. How ever let me say the representation he has made of the state of his health & private affairs including his Character is an appeal to hu manity—or in the General’s own term to our Generosity. I shall be exceedingly mortified if we neglect the opportunity of contrasting American liberality to British Cruelty. Should the favor be abused we have subjects enough remaining for full retaliation. The General may adopt any Motto, he has now learn’d that derivative is not higher than original honour & power, his Addresses to Congress in the name of their President are decent & unexceptionable. This is paving the way to a right understanding. I mean to trust a plain Letter or two by Capt Wilford who will probably pass through your Camp 8c apply to you. I write now as I am generally driven to do in my Addresses to you, in haste. God Bless 8c protect you. Henry Laurens RC (MHi: William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, 1973). 1 Laurens’ last extant letter to his son John, which is dated March 1 in his private letter book in the Laurens’ Papers, ScHi, was apparently dispatched on the second. It is also pertinent to note that John Laurens mentioned receiving two March 3 letters from his father, though only one has been found. Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, p. 134. ’John replied on March 9 that his talents were not equal to the task of painting or sketching a portrait of Washington or anyone else. Ibid., pp. 138-39.
