212 March 4, 1778 Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Sir, the 4th March 1778. I am much honoured by the receipt of your Excellency’s Letter of the 19th Febry. 1 which was delivered to me by Colo Kosciuszko in person, but not early enough by 24 hours to prevent my troubling Baron de Kalb to say “I had nothing to offer the Marquis delafayette on the 25th except respectful Compliments &: good wishes.” 2 This would not have been true, had Your Excellency’s favor been de livered to me soon after the delivery of a Letter dated the 20th Febry & signed by your Excellency which was sent to me by the Board of War uncovered for the information of Congress. 3 I had read this last mentioned Letter to Mr. Lovel before the meeting of Congress & remarked to him that from the Stile & tenor, it must have been intended for the president of Congress. This sentiment which scarcely required further aid, was confirmed beyond all doubt, by the preface of your Excellency’s private Letter. “I intend to write to you as president of Congress,” but unluckily this was not presented to me till the afternoon of the 20th. ft was then the Colo, introduced by General Gates, did me the honour to call at my little apartment. I can account in no way for the miscarriage of the Letter intended for Congress, but by concluding an error in the superscrip- tory, & the omission within, of the customary direction, for it cannot be beleived the Board of War would otherwise have made so unbe coming an appropriation; & their hurry of business apologizes for the want of that nice attention which was necessary to discover from the contents of the Letter that it was manifestly designed for Con gress. From this mistake, if it be really one, it follows that I have no Commands on me from Congress directed to your Excellency, who will hear from the Board with whom Your Excellency apparently corresponded. Nevertheless, as it is neither out of the Line of the presidents Duty nor inconsistent with his Right as a Delegate, I shall do myself the honour of conveying a Copy of the Act of Congress of the 2d Inst, passed upon Resolving to suspend the intended Irruption, 4 meaning from thence to prove that Congress maintain an high opinion of your Excellency as a Soldier & a Gentleman & you may depend upon it Sir, the approbation contained in that Act, is genuine, not merely complimentary. Admitting the phraseology to be not quite unex ceptionable, I should be criminally silent were I not to declare, the intentions of Congress respecting Your Excellency’s honour & merits, are altogether so. I will in this case presume to answer for each Individual Member. I love to walk in the Light &: to dwell on these bright scenes. Your Excellency, I flatter myself, will indulge my silence on some particulars alluded to in your Excellency’s Letter of the 19th.
