214 March 4, 1778 the Marquis is serene &: his own Breast tranquil; a Blunder, not his own, has afforded an opportunity for a display of Wisdom which has gained him the confidence of the people, hence my Dear Sir, you will perceive that you may with very great propriety & decency, return to your late Miltary Post. I shall add to the Act of Congress above mentioned one of the 24th Ulto. which by three last words added at my particular request in joins you to report the reasons of your Conduct “to Congress.” 6 Your Excellency may possibly think this anticipated by the Letter of the 20th Febry—& if the Board of War shall have transmitted Copies of these Resolves the present Inclosed will appear to be superfluous, I have however confined my self within the sphere of my Duty, relying upon Your Excellency’s indulgence to excuse me for making an Address which is altogether private, the Vehicle for two public Acts. I know not what to say relative to General Putnam’s Command, it appears to me that Gentlemen wish him away, &: at the same time are loth to offend the good Man—if it be from his unfitness their wishes arise, the sacrifice is very politic & unwarrantable. I remarked in a late Act by General Gates he retained the stile of Commander of the Troops in the Northern department, I know of no Resolve by which he has been divested of that Command & I have heard it said lately that there would be a necessity for his taking the Field again in the Spring. Your Excellency having now a proper opening to correspond with Congress may if you shall judge it proper suggest a plan for employ ment of such troops as are at present under your Command & such as may be collected. I feel the utmost confidence that Congress will pay becoming attention to every thing your Excellency shall be pleased to offer. I have the honour to be with the Highest Esteem & Respect. P.S. I should not like our correspondence to be talked of by everyone who calls himself or who may seem to be friend. I am afraid of noth ing but lies & misrepresentation. A Note in the Margin of your Letter "I beg you will engage Con gress to read over all the papers I send to them,” is a clear proof the Letter of 20th Febry was intended for Congress altho’ it might have been by mistake directed to the Board of War. I had not perceived this Note till the present Moment. LB (ScHi). 1 This was a private letter to Laurens in which Lafayette deplored the fact that it was impossible for him to carry out the expedition against Canada that Congress had appointed him to command. Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:295-97. 2 See Laurens to Baron de Kalb, February 25, 1778. 3 This letter, in which Lafayette described at length the obstacles in the way of a Canadian expedition, is in Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda,), 1:305-8.
