222 March 5, 1778 Committee on the Claims of Roderique Hortalez & Co. Report [ante March 5 1778] 1 The Committee to whom were referred Sundry Letters received by the Commercial Committee relative to the Claims of Messrs. Rodrique Hortalez & C. of Paris Report—That Considerable quantities of Cannon, Arms, Amunition, Cloathing & other Stores, shipped by the House of Roderique Hortalez 8c Co. in different ships & Vessells from France & the West Indies, for the use & account of these United States, That the greatest part of these articles have been delivered to the agents of these States, and it is the opinion of this Committee that the Said States are justly charged for the whole Amount thereof. 2 Resolved, That the Commercial Committee be authorized 8c em powered to receive from the Agent or Attorney of Said Roderique Hortalez 8c Co. the Invoices & other Documents Relative to these transactions, in order to ascertain the Amount of their debt, & make report to Congress from time to time of their proceedings for Con firmation. Resolved, That the Commercial Committee be authorised & em powered to pay to the said Agent or Attorney, Such Sums of Contin ental Money as he may from time to time require, fixing the rate of Exchange on every such payment, at the Current or Equitable course of Exchange at the date thereof. Resolved, That the Said Committee be authorized 8c empowered to ship such Cargoes of American produce as they may find convenient & proper, from time to time, for France, for the purpose of discharg ing this debt, consigning such Cargoes to the House of the said Roderique Hortalez & Co. and Whereas it appears to your Committee from the several Letters laid before them, that the Said Roderique Hortalez & Co. are inclined to enter into a Contract with the United States of America for a future Supply of all such Cannon, Arms, Ammunition, Cloathing, 8c other Stores, together with Specie which they may from time to time order, the Conditions on which such Contract is proposed to be entered into, is herewith presented for the consideration of this Honorable House, and if approved, Resolved, That the Commercial Committee be authorized 8c em powered to Contract with Mr. Francy, Agent or Attorney to the said Roderique Hortalez 8c Co. for the payment of all such supplies as have been already shipped or shall be hereafter shipped agreeable to the orders of said Committee 8c to the terms of the Contract. MS (ScHi). In the hand of Henry Laurens. 1 This date has been assigned because it seems likely that this was the report on the claims of Roderique Hortalez & Co., the appellation adopted to cloak the
