March 5, 1778 223 commercial operations of Caron de Beaumarchais, that was read in Congress on March 5. See JCC, 10: 185, 192, 225. 2 The attending delegates’ unfamiliarity with the history of “this mysterious com merce” with Beaumarchais explains their reluctance to approve such an unqualified acknowledgment that the United States “are justly charged for the whole Amount" claimed before they had had an opportunity to hear from their more knowledge able colleague Robert Morris, who was at this time at his home at Manheim. Consequently Congress postponed consideration of this report and Morris was urged to come to York to assist in evaluating the claims. See Committee of Com merce to Robert Morris, March 5; John Penn to Robert Morris, March 6; and Robert Morris’ Proposed Report on the Claims of Roderique Hortalez & Co., March 12, 1778. For background on Beaumarchais’ commercial transactions and his claims against the United States, see Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 1:369-86. See also Committee of Secret Correspondence to Silas Deane, October 1, 1776, note 3. William Duer to Robert Morris My dear Friend Reading March 5th 1778...JI should imagine my dear Friend, you can be no Stranger to the present critical Situation of our Army, and the late Embarassment which the Ignorance and Faction of a thin C ss have thrown in the Way of forming Magazines for the Army. The Consequences will in my Opinion, occasion its Dissolution very Shortly unless both they, and the State of Penna, cease to interfere with the Military Depart ments. This Circumstance, the Necessity of attending to our Finances, in order to supply the Exegencies of the next Campaign, and the means for bringing a force into the Field, and introducing in it, Discipline, and a Spirit of Enterprise call for the immediate Attention of every Lover of his Country, and particular[l]y of you who (without Flattery which I abhor) possess Talents to serve it at this Juncture, and whose Connection, with a State which is likely to be made a sacrifice of, demand in a peculiar degree all your Exertions. Let me my dear Sir conjure you to attend Congress on the Return of the Committee from Camp. I am sensible private Convenience cannot operate upon your mind at this Crisis, provided you have a Prospect of being useful. Mr. Lee writes me from Congress that several mem bers are daily Expected. 2 Mr. Hancock will be there in a few days, 3 and if my Presence can induce you, I will after I have secured my Baggage at Coryell’s Ferry (for w’h I set out this day) return and stay one month. Perhaps my dear Friend, the Joint Exertions of some [of] us may save our Country, and revive the Expiring Reputation of Congress, at least it is our Duty to try it. I write in a great hurry, and in much anxiety of mind: which must plead my excuse for Incorrectness. Let me know by a letter to Reading whether you will attend Congress; if you do I will immediately pro-
