224 March 5, 1778 ceed to Manheim on my Return from Coryell’s 4 and go with you. Write to Colo. Jos Reid to attend I am sure that his and your Pres ence will give a Right Turn to the Votes of Pensilvania and Delawar without which the endeavors of the other States will be useless. God bless you and your Family to whom I beg to be particularly remem bered. Wm. Duer [P.S.] This Letter will be delivered to you by Dr. Stringer of Albany an Acquaintance of mine whom I take the Liberty of recommending to your attention. W.D. Tr (DLC). Copied for Edmund C. Burnett from the original manuscript then in the hands of Stan V. Henkels. 1 Ellipsis in Tr. According to a notation by the copyist on the Tr, the omitted section of the letter dealt with Duer’s “excuse for delaying at Reading.” 2 Francis Lightfoot Lee’s letter to Duer has not been found. ’John Hancock did not return to Congress until June 19. See JCC, 11:621. * "Congress” in Tr. This is obviously a scribal error because, as Burnett cogently argued, “it seems quite clear that Duer is proposing to return from Coryell’s Ferry by way of Manheim and go to Congress with Morris.” Burnett, Letters, 3:108n.3. A 19th-century extract of this letter, taken from the original manuscript, also reads “Coryell’s” instead of "Congress.” See William B. Reed, Life and Correspondence of Joseph Reed, 2 vols. Philadelphia: Lindsay & Blackiston, 1847), l:365n. It should be noted that in this work Reed gives March 6, 1778, as the date of Duer’s letter. Henry Laurens to Francis Dana Sir, 5th March 1778 I beg leave to refer to a Letter of the 3d Inst, by the present & Messenger who was that day repulsed by Susquehana & is now going to make a second attempt. Shall I request the favor of you to present the Inclosed Act of Congress to the Quarter Master General 8c the two Assistant Quarter Masters general respectively 8c to excuse me to those Gentlemen for this mode of Address—which the present moment has obliged me to adopt. The Act was done on the 2d but these duplicates have been detained from me until this Instant. 1 Yesterday Congress received a piteous narrative of the article of Tents in a Letter from Colo. Butler to the Board of War dated 26th Febry. I wished to have sent you a full Copy but time will not permit, therefore shall extract 8c inclose one or two Paragraphs 8c Copy of a Calculation of the Number of Tents expected to be ready the 20th April. 2 This being laid before General Green will give him a proper momentum 8: that Gentleman may expect in a day or two extended Resolves on this Subject. Congress have Resolved to authorize General Washington to raise
