March 6, 1778 227 early this spring as possible. Maryland I hope will not be backward. The draught of the Militia recommended by Congress I fear will meet with many obsticles in the Legislature. Should that measure fail, I am at a loss to discover what expedient can be fallen upon. The Expedi tion into Canada is suspended. Genl. Burgoyne and two of his officers upon his earnest request to Congress is permitted to embark for Eng land. Enclosed you have a copy of the resolve upon which the ten Thousand dollars mentioned above was granted, by which you will see part of the money is to be applied towards paying the premium for taking up deserters. I am Sir your very hble. Servt. J Henry Junr. RC (MdAA). ’See ]CC, 10:225. Henry Laurens to John Burgoyne Sir. York Town in Pennsylvania 6th March 1778 By the hand of Lieutenant Wilford on the 26th February I re ceived the honor of Your Excellency’s Letter of the 11th of that Month, No. 1 & upon the 2d Inst, of another Letter from Your Excel lency of the former date No. 2. These in due course I presented to Congress & I have received in charge to transmit to Your Excellency the three Acts undermentioned, which will be found within the present Cover. 1 1. An Act of the 2d March confirming the Act of January 8th for suspending the embarkation of the Troops in the Convention of Saratoga. 2. An Act of the 3d March enabling Lieutt. Wilford to transmit certain papers to General Howe. 3. An Act of the same date for granting Passports for Your Excel lency with the Officers of Your Excellency’s family & Servants to em bark to Great Britain &: for other purposes therein Resolved. To these several Acts Sir, I beg leave particularly to refer, as con taining all that Congress have judged necessary for me to return to Your Excellency’s Letters above recited. I have the honour to be, with all proper Consideration, Sir, Your Excellency’s Obedient &: Most humble servant, H. Laurens Tr (MHi). Written and signed by Laurens. This is the duplicate letter that Laur ens enclosed in his letter of this date to Gen. William Heath, the commanding officer in Boston who was responsible for the supervision of Burgoyne and his army. 1 For further information about these “three Acts,” see Laurens to Richard Wil ford, March 1, 1778, note.
