March 7, 1778 233 Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson Dear Sir York Town March 7 1778 I wrote you the 3d by Post, since which I have not been able to attend Congress, Owing to the very bad weather, I hope the next week I shall be able to do Duty as usual. My Man Sawney has been run away ever since the 5 Feby. & I have not heard a word of him, I suppose he will if Possible get to Philadel phia. I wish Heron’s Josh could come to me in Time but I fear he cannot, I can’t meet with a Servant at any rate, I dont know but I shall be Obliged to endeavour to return home on horse back &: leave Carriage and all behind me. It is impossible to describe to you the Vilany of my fellow—he has robbd Our Qr. Master of more than £100 worth of Goods &c. Capt. Doherty is just setting off. I shall write you more fully by next Post &: am with true esteem, Dr Sir, Your affec & Obedient Servt, Cornl. Harnett [P.S.] Compts to all friends. RC (PHC). Henry Laurens to Samuel Adams Dear Sir York Town 7th March 1778. You may remember the anxiety which I expressed upon hearing of the Portuguese Vessel being carried into Boston as prize, neither you nor I knew then who were Owners of the Captor, I am sure I did not. Congress two days ago received a Memorial on that affair from the Honorable Robt. Morris Esqr. which exhibits after much candid narration, a Prayer, “that Congress will cause a fair &: public Sale to be made of the Vessel & her Cargo, that the charge & expense arising on the Sale be paid & the remainder or Net Proceed be invested in Loan Office Certificates bearing Interest for the Benefit of the true &: Lawful proprietors of said Vessel & Cargo.” 1 The Ideas of the Memorialist are, that from this very partial resti tution of original property—“The original Owners will obtain justice & reparation,” in which from the prejudice of my Education I have the misfortune to differ extremely. That “the Owners of the Phoenix will be relieved of all their diffi culties.” This sentiment precisely accords with my own, but unfor tunately I cannot from any consideration unite with any set of Men in an attempt to dupe Congress into a participation of the Crimes or follies of those good Owners. Then closes the pious peroration— “thus, the National Fate &: Credit of these Infant States will remain
