236 March 7, 1778 to have practiced medicine in South Carolina. See Walter B. Edgar and Louise Bailey, Biographical Directory of the South Carolina House of Representatives (Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 1977), 2:240-41, 265-67. Henry Laurens to William Heath Sir- York Town 7th March 1778. I beg leave to refer you to the inclosed duplicate of what I had the honour of writing to you yesterday by Mr. Peck to which I add a Copy of General Burgoyne’s. You will receive inclosed an Act of Congress of this date for restrict ing the granting furloughs in the Army. 1 I have pressed the Treasury to embrace the present opportunity by Frederick Weare an honest careful Man & of good responsibility to transmit for your department 50 or 100 Thousand Dollars in part of the whole Sum intended & I hope the recommendation will meet suc cess. A like Sum to be forwarded by Mr. Dodd who is to follow some day in next Week will assist you for the present moment, &: more ample supplies will be sent by other conveyances. I have the honour to be, With great Regard & Esteem, Sir, Your obedient & most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. [P.S.] I just now learn that twenty Thousand Dollars will be delivered indeed are delivered to the bearer Fred Weare. RC (MHi). 1 Congress gave greater authority over the issuance of furloughs to “the Com mander in Chief, or commander of a department” in response to a recent Com mittee at Camp report on abuses by regimental colonels, whose authority to issue furloughs was thereby restricted. See Committee at Camp to Laurens, March 3, 1778, which was read in Congress on the sixth; and JCC, 10:227, 230. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Sir > 7th March 1778. Major Brice left me yesterday & carried with him Six Thousand Dollars on Account of your Excellency & two Letters which in obedi ence to your Excellency’s command I had the honor of writing under the 4th & 6th Inst. I spoke again this morning to General Gates on the subject of recalling Your Excellency to General Washington’s Army & although we differed in opinion I really beleive he means well. However when the recommendation came before Congress, I could not consistently
