238 March 7, 1778 3 See JCC, 10:221—22. This day Laurens also transmitted copies of the March 4 resolves on the defense of the Hudson and a March 7 resolve on restricting fur loughs with a brief covering letter addressed to the “Commanding Officer of the Army in the Northern department,” which was received by Lafayette in that capacity before he left Albany to rejoin Washington’s army. See PCC, item 13, fol. 213; and Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:362. 4 William Duer. Henry Laurens to Israel Putnam Sir, 7th March 1778. I had the honour of receiving &: Reporting to Congress on the 26th, your favour of the 10th of that Month, 1 this was immediately com mitted to the Board of War & I have received no other Commands from Congress save the Inclosed Act of the present date for restricting the granting furloghs in the Army. The Treasury have already Sent pretty large Sums for supplying the Military Chests in the Northern Armies. These I am assured will soon be followed by farther Sums & that such measures are now in motion as will discharge arrears in every quarter. I trust there will be no failure on the part of that Board. Next Week Congress mean to take under their Consideration the State of our public funds when probably the establishing a Loan Office near your Army agreeable to your proposition will be taken into view. I have the honour to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Major General Putnam, Hudsons River.” 'General Putnam’s February 10 letter to Laurens, in which he described his efforts to fortify the Hudson and suggested the establishment of a Continental loan office at Poughkeepsie for him to draw upon whenever he needed money, is in PCC, item 159, fols. 121-28. Putnam’s letter, according to the journals, was read in Congress on February 27. JCC, 10:204. Putnam also noted the need for such a loan office in a February 13 letter to Washington, an extract of which the general forw’arded to Congress where it was read on March 5. See JCC, 10:225. Francis Lewis to the New York Convention Sir, York Town 7th March 1778 I had the honor to write you the 25th Ultimo to wch. beg leave to refer you. 1 As my worthy Collegue Mr Duer, is long ere this arrived with you, he will minutely inform you with every material circumstance relative to the publick transactions here, to the time of his departure, since which nothing of considerable notority has happened. Your letter of the 11th Janry. with accounts & Vouchers for the expenditure of monies &c in supporting the Prisoners of War, I im-
