March 7, 1778 239 mediately laid before Congress, who ordered them to the Auditors Office, but such is the present low State of the Treasury, and the large demands thereon, from the Quar. Masr. General’s & the Commissary of provisions departments that the payment of those Accounts must be for sometime postponed; 2 It may be necessary to inform you that Congress has lately passed a Resolve, that all the States from New Hampshire to Virginia exhibit their accounts relative to prisoners of War on or before the 15th day of April next, on failure, to be excluded, from payment, 3 this Resolution has been sent out to the several Governors by Express; The two last articles charged in your Account, has the appearance of Abitary enties and may require an explanation, this I hint at for your government, when you furnish an account of such articles as were omitted in the former. The Northern Expedition under the Marquis de Fiette, is by Con gress deemed impracticable, therefore set aside. By a private letter received yesterday from Mr. Clement Biddle a Commissary, we are informed, that Genl. [Wayne] who went over to the Jerseys with a party in order to distroy the forage engaged a party of the British light Infantry whom he totaly routed, and the major part of them were killed or taken prisoners. I herewith send you a pamphlet, 4 reprinted at Lancaster, together with this days Pensylvania Gazette for your perusal having nothing more material to add but that I am still the only member here repre senting our State. I have the honor to be with great respect, Your most Obedient & Humble Servant, Fra Lewis RC (NN). Addressed: ‘‘Honble. Pierre Van Cortlandt Esquire.” 1 Not found. 2 In his January 11 letter to the New York delegates, Pierre Van Cortlandt, the president of the New York Convention, reported that pursuant to an August 15, 1777, resolve of Congress which did not reach the convention until November, he was enclosing accounts of the money New York had expended on prisoners of war. Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:1114. The accounts themselves have not been found. Lewis presented them to Congress on February 18 and they were then referred to the Board of Treasury, but this is the last mention of them in the journals for 1778. JCC, 10:179. 3 This resolve was passed on February 26. JCC, 10:198. 1 See John Henry to Thomas Johnson, February 17, 1778, note 2. Jonathan Bayard Smith to Thomas Wharton Sir York Town March 7 1778 The delegates had the favor of your Secretary’s letter with copy from James Young Esq. 1 It is extremely painfull to hear & to make complaints on one side or other. We did not communicate the con-
