March 8, 1778 241 Joseph Reed to John Bayard Dear Sir 1 [March 8? 1778] 2 A close Attention to our Business &: some Engagements abroad have hitherto prevented my answering your Favour of the 25 February. Nothing could give me more Pleasure (because I am sure it would redound to the Honour of the State & the common Interest) to have its Powers vigorously & effectually exerted in every Thing that re spects the Supply & Accomodation of the Army. My Opinion was against its taking this Position, because I feared the Difficulties which have ensued. But the great Apprehensions & Anxieties of the People to which so great a Regard was shewn as to detain the Army on this Spot seem to me to have been improperly expressed, if the utmost Attention is not shewn to render their Situation supportable; com fortable it can never be. The Troops certainly have a Claim upon the Authority of this State & I know no Circumstances more likely to prove fatal to this Government than to press so earnestly for the Cantonment of the Army here & then to fail in its Attempts to furnish the necessary Supplies. The General &: many others are very sensible that the Operations of the State have been enfeebled & frustrated by the Interference of Officers in various Departments who have made their military Power an Instrument of Offence against the State. They are therefore not only convinced of the Propriety but wish the Powers of the State to [be] fairly tried & if they shall be found in all ordinary Cases equal to the Demands I believe the most effectual Measures will ever be taken to repress either the malevolent or ambitious Proce dures of any of its Enemies so far as they are attempted under the Colour of military Authority. The Presidt. very properly transmitted to the General a Copy of Mr. Young’s letter on the Transaction men tioned in your Letter. We do not at present hear of any Scarcity of Provisions in Camp, but we only live as the vulgar say from Hand to Mouth. The Affair of the Waggons mentioned in my last was much exaggerated. The Desire some Persons have to avail themselves of every Circumstance unfavourable to the State led them to speak much larger than the Truth would admit. There were but a few Horses & only one or two Men drowned by their Rashness & Folly. We now have a Body of Continental Troops posted from Barron Hill as far as your Place which keeps that Country in some State of Security & has very much broke the Intercourse which notwithstanding the Risque of Horses & corporal Punishment the vile & disafected still persisted in. The Fellow apprehended on Justice Knox’s Account was executed at Bartholemew’s Tavern & left hanging as an Example to other Offenders of the same kind—he acknowledged the Justice of his Sentence & hoped his Fate would be a Warning to others. I was very apprehensive he would have escaped from the Lenity of our Officers
