March 9, 1778 245 clear them from the Imputation of Inequity. And first it must be observed that in every Compact between beligerent Powers to ascer tain Money Matters Recourse must be had to a tertium interveniens or middle Rate, neither Party being willing to trust the Honesty of the other seeing that if he did, that other by exercising the allowed Sovereignty of a State might raise or lower the current Coin so as to suit his own Convenience according to the Circumstances and Exigen cies which might arise. A fortiori on the present Occasion is such Precaution necessary to us the Value of whose Money is from the Nature of the Case more fluctuating than that of other Nations. Besides which the Enemy deny that it is Money and have not only the Will but in a great Measure the Power too of governing its Value and further have exerted themselves to depreciate it by Methods totally unprecedented among honest Men. If then it were agreed that both Sides should pay for the Subsistence of Prisoners in the Money of the respective Countries, what would be the Consequence but that our Resources must be entirely exhausted in maintaining our Enemies and this by Reason of their Knavery and our Folly. Besides this it would be declaring upon the very Face of the Transaction that our Money is not worth a Quarter of what it is uttered for by Congress, which is the next Step to making it worth nothing at all. With a View to these Inconveniences Congress fix the Medium to be in Spanish Milled Dollars worth each one paper Dollar of the Currency of these States & 4/6 Sterling. Nor does the Objection of Inequity lie so strongly as Gentlemen suppose even in their own favorite Point of View, for it is permitted to them to pay in Specie; & if they can do it cheaper and more conveniently than in Gold they certainly will, but the Fact is their Provision costs them more than ours even on this inequitable Exchange as it is called and we shall have to pay for so much as is furnished to our Prisoners according to what it costs them and not as we might have bought it in the Country. Nor shall we be permitted to replace our Deficiency in Provisions unless they happen to want Subsistence. For this we find was the Case at first, and tho the Liberty of sending in Flour and Wheat as they grew short in these Articles was (on that Principle and for their Advantage) extended to an Amount for purchasing other Necessaries Yet even then they by Proclamation obliged us to sell our Wheat at their Price or in other Words to pay for their Commodities just what they pleased. And tho it may be said that this Proclamation applied chiefly or only to their own Territory, yet when it is known (and the Fact is) that the Inhab itants of that Territory never did raise Wheat beyond their own Consumption the slight thin Pretence only exposes their Conduct. But to return, it is evident that the Interest of the Enemy now calls upon them loudly for an Exchange of Men And therefore it is by no Means a Matter of Surprize that Genl. Howe after having delayed it
