252 March 9, 1778 resignation, as you will see by an Act of the 7th Inst, here inclosed. 1 I am with great respect. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Colo. Willm. Cooke, 12th Pennsylvania Regimt.” 1 See JCC, 10:228. Cooke’s letter of resignation is not in PCC. Five days after Laurens wrote this letter Cooke was court-martialed “for disobedience of orders in sundry instances,” convicted, and publicly reprimanded. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:52, 81-82. It is pertinent to note that when Cooke wrote his letter of resignation he was absent without leave from his regiment. William Duer to Robert R. Livingston My dear Freind Baskenridge March 10th. 1778 I received your Letter of the 30th Jany. 1 at Reading where I had stopt for some days in my Way homewards in Expectation of meeting with my Colleague Mr. Philip Livingston who I had reason to expect would have been at that Place about the 8 or 10 Feby. On the Receipt of your Letter, in which you mention that you had wrote to Morris on a Matter of the utmost Importance to our State, 2 desiring me to open it in Case he should be loitering on the Road, I determined notwithstanding a very Weak State both of Body and Mind to return to Congress at York Town (where the Letter for Morris was stopt) in order to attend to its Contents, in Case I should not find Mr. P. Livingston at this Place, for which I immediately set out. Being dis appointed in my Expectation I am just going to set out for Congress (and in Case Mr. Morris should not have returned thither from Camp (where he has been for five weeks on a Come, for reforming the Army) I shall open the Letter and attend to the Matters you recommend. At the Same Time, my dear Freind, It is a Duty which I owe myself to inform you, and by your Means, my Freinds in the Governt. of our State, that I cannot possibly stay there more than three Weeks. It is now near two Years since I quitted home, during which Time I have not paid the least Attention to my private Affairs, which are in the Utmost Confusion—and if not speedily attended to may involve me in Difficulties injurious in the highest degree both to my Fortune and Reputation, especially in matters which I transacted for the Public. Independant of this Consideration my Health is much shattered by an Intermitting Fever which has been hanging upon me during the Course of last Summer and Fall, and my Mind much Impair’d by a Close Attention to Business, and by an inexpressible anxiety which I cannot help feeling for the State of our Public Affairs which I am sorry to tell you in my Opinion (and I think I am not of a desponding [cast?]) wear a most unpromising Aspect. It would take
