260 March 10, 1778 RC (MH-H). 1 President Wharton’s March 3 letter to Laurens, which was primarily con cerned with urging other states to share more of the burden of supplying wagons, is in PCC, item 69, 1:477-79, and Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:327-29. It does not appear that Congress took any action on this letter other than referring it to the Board of War. Henry Laurens to Christopher Zahn Dear Sir, 1 10th March 1778. I am sorry you have not enabled me to acknowledge the Receipt of a single Line from my Neighbor Zahn since we parted in June last. Although I am not under the dominion of a very anxious mind & that I repose the utmost confidence in your judgement as a Planter & attention as an Attorney & Friend, yet from various considerations it would have given me pleasure to have received an account from yourself, reflective & prospective, of affairs at Mount Tacitus. Per suaded as I am that every thing is going forward under your usual good management, you will nevertheless admit, that a desire of know ing whether we can afford to expend &: to give fifty or Five hundred, is not a criminal passion—especially in a Man who while his usual income is greatly straightned is exposed to such exorbitant charges for common, I should say, very mean subsistence as are Sufficient to impoverish a very large Estate. Only think of paying £11.7.6. Carolina Money for a pair of shoes, Negro shoes, for George, & articles in proportion. Our Neighbor the Revd. Mr. Turquand is now in York Town transacting business for the Society at Red Stone with whom he is connected, 2 he informs me the families are all pretty well except the old Gentleman who has lost the little patience he carried from Sante. Poor old man he discards his business with me in this part of the World to be quite of a different nature from that he used to talk of in the piaza, he has found it necessary to accept of Services from me, when I might not only have witheld them, but have put him to great inconvenience. To do him acts of kindness when the opportunity was fair, gave me the most pleasure & satisfaction. Mr. Turquand desires his Compliments. This will probably be delivered to you by Mr. John Christian Senf an ingenious, sensible, Young Gentleman, who in the last summers Campaign was taken prisoner by General Gates’s Troops. He had been a Lieutenant Engineer under General . Sometime after he had been Captured, he determined to abandon the infamous Cause into which his Prince had plunged him without his own consent, & to become an Inhabitant & Citizen among a free people. General Gates was so well pleased with his whole behavior as to give him the
