March 10, 1778 261 Rank of Captain of Engineers & to recommend him strongly to me. I have for several reasons which this Gentleman will explain to you if you converse together, advised him to seek his fortune in the Southern Climates. 3 If he has health &: a few friends I am of opinion he will find it there. He is an excellent draughtsman 8c equal to every kind of surveying business. These with other qualifications which he is possessed of, will enable him to go through the first efforts in a new Country with tolerable ease; & after a little experience he will be competent to helping himself, in the meantime I request all my freinds to shew him countenance. Perhaps we may soon employ Capt. Senf if he does not obtain better business to resurvey Mount Tacitus. Your Civilities to him will not be thrown away. I say nothing of my private affairs under your direction being con fident of your friendly attention in every respect & flattering my self with an assurance of hearing from you very soon. General Burgoyne having learned to address Congress in a becom ing Stile 8c having earnestly requested leave to go to England for his health & for the vindication of his conduct Congress have consented. Our public affairs in general are not in so good a train as I could wish, but every defect is owing to a Langour in the States. Consider Sir, what is the Cause 8c what may be the consequence, of Congress’s being reduced to the number of 13 to 17 Members. The States are off their Guard & fallen a Sleep—was not our Enemies as weak as our selves we should be ruined, but they may make a grand effort & destroy us. It is our duty to make a great Stroke Sc drive them out. This might easily be done were we half so animated as we pretended to be in 1775. You will smile when I inform you I have granted Many Commis sions for Cruizing on the Delaware, Cheesapeck Bay 8c even on the Ohio 8c Mississipy. On the Delaware many valuable prizes have been made, I have just now an Account that four of our Armed Boats had taken two ships 8c an Armed Schooner 8c were in pursuit of several more who were coming up the River. The Men of War had retired for the Winter to Rhode Island. The Enemy lately lost near New York in a Snow Storm two Frigates 8c several Armed Vessels. From the King of Englands speech to His Parliament 8c their Answer 8c debates I think it would not be very hazardous to prophesy that terms of accomodation will soon be offered. I am for preparing every means in readiness for an early blow as the best posture we can be found in for receiving propositions for peace. I am with very great regard. LB (ScHi). 1 Previously identified in volume seven o£ these Letters. ’During his stay in York, Rev. Paul Turquand also sought in vain to secure payment by Congress of some bills of exchange he had brought with him from South Carolina. JCC, 10:233, 257.
