March 10, 1778 265 1 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Morris in cipher. 2 For a discussion of the opposition to Washington in and out of Congress during the winter of 1777-78, see James Lovell to Horatio Gates, November 27, 1777, note 1. Former Virginia delegate Benjamin Harrison made some pertinent comments about rumored anti-Washington machinations in a letter he wrote from “Berkely James River” on March 3 to former North Carolina delegate Joseph Hewes: “I have been greatly alarmed by some letters I have received from my worthy friend, and accounts through other channels, that there was a party formed against our general, both in and out of Congress in favor of the Saratoga Hero. I give the greater credit to this, when I consider who they are that compose our Board of War, men who are most of them avowedly his enemies, and some of them too who are using every endeavor to rise by his fall. In the name of wonders how came it thus constituted? Are the good and virtuous of you, and I know there is a great majority of such, taken in? Indeed I fear it and venture to foretell, that if you have not your eyes and ears about you, America or at least, this part of it will soon be in very great confusion.” N.C. State Records, 13:61-62. 3 Philip Livingston. Jonathan Bayard Smith to Thomas Wharton Sir York Town March 10. 1778 On other leaf is copy of parts of a letter from Colo. Hartley to the board of War on the subject of recruiting his battalion; & the boards letter to Congress on the subject; both which were referred to the delegates of this State. 1 As not to comply with the proposition made might appear an unnecessary obstruction to reinforcing the army on one hand; or on the other a compliance might involve con sequences not expected, the delegates advised with the Committee from the state now here, & finally take the liberty of referring to your directions, as they did not conceive themselves authorized to interfere. The states are severally called upon to raise their old quota of troops. The number of this state regiments is diminished to 10. 2 The supernumerary men are to be transferred to the horse, artillery, & other unconnected corps. Of the 16 Regiments (so called) 9 only are to be kept up; &, I suppose, will be alloted to particular states, & filled up as above. Colo. Hartleys will probably belong to us as its natural connexion. To concur with his proposition, will give him the men more immediately; Sc allowing him to employ his officers may expedite the recruiting service; perhaps be the means of pro curing recruits, either from connection or attachment, which others would not pick up. He has expectations from the borders of Mary land; filled his regiment formerly with quick success, & appears to be sanguine now. With respect to the money he appears to be prudent & cautious. But as we may perhaps not foresee all the effects, or its full connection with the state of Pennsylvania, we beg leave to sollicit your earliest advice & direction, as no time ought to be lost. We beg
