266 March 10, 1778 leave only to add that the complement of each battalion is also to be reduced; & that though some states have discountenanced these un connected regiments, yet some others have given them the benefit of their state bounties. I am, Sir, with very great respect in behalf of the Delegates, Your Excellency’s & Councils most ob. h. servt. Jona. B Smith RC (MeHi). 1 See JCC, 10:235. For the extracts of the two letters pertaining to Col. Thomas Hartley’s regiment that Smith enclosed to the Pennsylvania Council, see Pa. Ar chives, 1st ser. 6:351-52. See also Henry Laurens to Thomas Wharton, March 31, 1778; and John B. B. Trussell, Jr., The Pennsylvania Line: Regimental Organization and Operations, 1776-1783 (Harrisburg: Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Com mission, 1977), pp. 139^6. “For the new state quotas that Congress adopted on February 25, and which the states were "required forthwith to fill up by drafts from their militia,” see JCC, 10:200. For an indication of how the Committee at Camp arrived at the quota established for Pennsylvania, which the committee originally recommended to Congress in its February 5 letter to President Laurens, see Joseph Reed to Thomas Wharton, February 1, 1778. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais My Dear Sir, 11 th March 1778. Sympathize with me when I complain that near four Months have elapsed since the date of the last public or social Letter to me from Charles Town—consider how I must appear & what I must feel when publications have been made in all the American papers of a wasting Fire in the Capital City of the State from whence I ascended &: I am left as unable to answer enquiries into that Calamity as I am ignorant, when our State will be represented? when our State intends to Ratify Confederation? when I expect Instructions to defend against Arthurs Appeal? questions which distress me every time they are asked. Concerning the Fire I have learned enough to make me feel deeply for my fellow Citizens. Let me entreat my worthy friend Mr. Manigault & Yourself to charge my Brother’s Estate &: my own with ample Sums in contribution to the relief of the necessitous. On such an occasion be not so cowardly as to fear even the reproach of ostentation. You will see what other people give & go rather beyond proportion in subscribing for me—when I learn particulars I may say more on the subject. Baron Holzendorff is now returning to France by way of Chs. Town, he will have a lamentable & pitious tale to relate. I think he has too much ground for complaint, but it is not proper for me to expatiate on the subject at this time. 1 I have lent him 400 Dollars to help him onward after I had learned
