268 March 11, 1778 Man I shall rejoice to learn that I have pointed a Road which may lead him to honour & Independence. I have taken up so much time on behalf of these Strangers scarcely a moment remains for my own affairs but what can I say respecting them. I confide in your Self 8c my other friends that you will do all you can in my absence to save me from ruin 8c exert your endeavors to obtain leave for me to return 8c take the burthen from your hands. I beg you will introduce Capt Senf to General Howe 8c excuse me to the General for not writing by this opportunity, tis impossible. Colo. Holzendorff 8c Capt Senf will relate to you how I am excercised except half an hour which I sometimes hammer out to Sixty minutes drinking Tea 8c chatting with the very pretty Ladies in this House. I am perpetually 19 or 20 Hours in the day going round like a Mill Horse. Congress have had so much business before them 8c I believe were never more in want of proper powers for transaction. The Chief Justice 3 will expect a Line from me, I will do myself the honour of writing next opportunity 8c several other friends I hope will give me a little further Credit. I thank Mr. Loveday for his Letter 8c intend very soon to write to him. I know he will proceed without being offended by my silence. I had almost forgot to say I am willing to give Mr. McCullough every reasonable Indulgence for his debt—let him have an opportunity of attempting to improve for his own benefit the Talents put into his hands. I believe him very honest 8c am desirous of befriending him. Adieu My Dear Sir. Present me with respect 8c affection within your own Walls 8c in proper terms to all of our friends. 4 LB (ScHi). 1 For further information about Congress’ alleged failure to appreciate the merits of Baron de Holtzendorf, see Laurens to Baron de Kalb, January 1, 1778, note 2. Among the Laurens Papers at DLC is a series of four letters that Holtzen dorf wrote to Laurens at various times in 1778. 2 President John Rutledge of South Carolina. 3 William Henry Drayton. ‘At the end of this letter Laurens noted in his letter book: "Inclosed the first interview with Capt. Wilford.” Laurens Papers, ScHi. This enclosure has not been found. Richard Wilford was the aide sent to Congress by General Burgoyne to secure permission for his return to England. Henry Laurens to Robert Howe Sir 11th March 1778 Under Cover with this I have the honour of transmitting the fol lowing Papers. 1. An Act of Congress of the 7th. Inst, restricting the granting Furloughs in the Army.
