March 11, 1778 269 2. A Commission appointing Nicholas Eveleigh Esquire Dep. Ad jutant General for the States of So. Carolina & Georgia with the Rank of Colonel in the Army from 8th June 1777. 3. A Commission appointing Henry Purcell Esquire Dep. Judge Advocate for So. Carolina & Georgia with Rank from 8th June 1777 of Lieut. Colonel. 4. A Commission appointing Ferdind. deBrahm Esqr. Engineer with the Rank of Major in the Army 11th Febry 1778. 1 I have the honour to be with Respect LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 Laurens also notified De Brahm, Eveleigh, and Purcell of their appointment to these offices in brief letters that he wrote to them this day. PCC, item 13, fols. 220-21. For further information on the appointments of Eveleigh and Purcell, see Laurens to Howe, August 9, 1777, note 1. Gen. Robert Howe was commander of the southern military department. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge Dear Sir, 11th March 1778 I had the honour of writing to Your Excellency 30th Jany. contin ued to 3d Febry. by the hands of a Mr. Gray who received from me a large consideration for promised care & dispatch. I am sorry to say our public affairs are not a whit mended since the gloomy account in my last. Repeated daily clamors from every quarter for want of money & provision—the Quarter Master General’s, the Commissary General & Clothier General’s several departments in the most wretched situation particularly the former two. The necessary works on North River extremely backward & strong fears expressed that we shall be in no State, when the River is navigable, to defend the Passes, in that Case Albany & all our Stores will be demolished. The Army under General Washington mouldering away & still in danger of disbanding for want of provision. The New Board of War has hitherto wrought nothing beneficial, have been bickering with the Executive Council of the State 1 & not run very smoothly with Congress. The intended Irruption into Canada ended before it commenced. In this business the Marquis de Lafayette has acted with wisdom which has gained him much reputation—but he is seriously char- grined with the planners of that amusement & if I have the honour of any Influence it shall be, I may say it has been exercised to dis suade him from resentment at this critical juncture. 2 Your Excellency may recollect I regretted being almost alone in opposition to that
