March 11, 1778 271 Captn. Barry’s taking two Ships chiefly laden with forage, an affecting stroke to the Enemy—a schooner Armed with 8 4-poundr. & 12 4-pound howitzers, having 1 Lt. Engineer, 15 Artificers & several Officers Wives & some Cargo on board; the Schooner a remarkable fine Vessel, all this effected by Armed Barges. In Company with the bearer of this will go a young Gentleman 4 who had been a Lieut, in the Hessian Troops under General Bur goyne, was taken prisoner & after mature deliberation detested & abandoned the Cause in which he had been involuntarily plunged by his Prince. General Gates was so well pleased with him as to give him a Commission of Captn. Engineer, &: recommended him very warmly to me. The public have no employment for him here, I have therefore encouraged him to seek his fortune in South Carolina where a Man of his abilities cannot be long out of business. He is said to be a good Engineer & is certainly an excellent draughtsman. If Your Excellency should have room for him in public Service he will prefer it, otherwise he means to offer himself as a Surveyor of Lands, a profession in which after a little experience he will become eminent, admitting his integrity equal to his ability, which both General Gates & myself think there is room to believe. We have this very Evening received an intimation of a most horrid & dangerous conspiracy. If the secret information shall prove grounded, it will appear that Sr. William reduced to play a desparate Game would aim to be better acquainted with Congress. However, with all the air of probability, the tale is yet mysterious, we are pur suing measures to unfold it. 5 Great Britain would chearfully return to the Year 1763, but with difficulty will be brought to address Amer ica in the stile lately observed by her Northern Generals. I condole with my friends & fellow Citizens Sufferers by the late Fire in Charles Town. The particulars I cannot learn, but enough is come to my knowledge to convince me of the great distress of the Inhabitants & that all these States will feel the Stroke in some degree. I lately paid from the fund of So. Carolina in the public Treasury 20,246 Dollars for your Excellency’s draughts in favor of Benja. Farrar Esquire for 14092 & 6154 Dollars. That Gentleman with Mr. Gaillard &ca. are still on the Monongahela & not a little apprehensive of being seized by some American Cruizer when they have reached the British Line on the Mississippi. I have done everything in my power to guard them against such danger, but I am not clear whether the Board of Wars pass will destroy the effect & validity of the presi dents Commission by order of Congress. 6 I request Your Excellency will allow Colonel Gervais to peruse Mr. Burgoyne’s Letters & other papers on his affair & that Your Excellency will not permit any Copy or extract to be taken. I have the honour to be with very great Regard & Esteem.
