212 March 11, 1778 P.S. I intreat your Excellency to order the packets for Georgia to be sent immediately forward at Continental Expense. LB (ScHi). 1 See, for example, Daniel Roberdeau to Thomas Wharton, January 30; and William Duer to Francis Lightfoot Lee, February 19, 1778, note. 2 See Laurens to Lafayette, March 4 and 6, 1778. 3 See Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson, March 3, 1778, note 1. ‘ John Christopher Senf. 5 This is the only mention of this "mysterious” tale in the surviving cor respondence of the delegates. “See Laurens to Benjamin Farrar, March 7, 1778. Marine Committee to John Barry Sir March 11th 1778 We have received your letter of the 8th instant and congratulate you on the successful commencement of your expedition and hope it will be attended with Similar advantages to the Public and Glory to the gallant Commander, brave officers & men concerned in it, through out the whole course. The good opinion you have of your Prize Schooner 1 has determined us to purchase her for a Cruizer, you will therefore obtain the consent of the Partys who took her, have her fairly valued, and take her at that valuation for the public. She is to be called the Wasp, and as you have represented her to be properly equiped in every particular for an Armed Vessel, you will see that she is officered & manned as soon as possible, take the command of her yourself or bestow it on some brave, Active, prudent officer. You will employ her there so long as you shall think prudent, but should you apprehend there will be danger of her falling into the hands of the enemy you will send her out of the Bay into Senepuxent, Chinco teague or any of the Inlets on the Coast, where you will be able to collect a full Complement of Men if not well manned before. That done let her take such Station off Cape Henlopen as to be able to descry the enemies Vessels coming in & going out of the Capes and to secure a retreat should she fall in with any Vessels of Superior force. We observe that you have advised General Washington of your Suc cess, and expect you have furnished him with Inventories of what was on board your Prizes. Any Articles which he may direct to be kept for the use of the Army you will retain having them properly valued and deliver them as he may direct. With regard to the general dis tribution of the Prize Money it is our opinion it should be distributed according to the number of Men & Guns in each Boat concerned in the Capture. As to the distribution among the officers and Men in the Continental Boats (If no previous agreement had been entered into)
