284 March 12, 1778 again Seem to me to be right enough, tho I do not like at all, that it is entirely left in the power of the Commercial Committee to send Some remittance, when ever it will be agreable to them; it is effectually agreed between us, that all the vessels fitted on public account for the express purpose of discharging a part of the debt Shall be directed to the house, but the Commercial Committee may not withstanding Send fifty, without directing a Single one to us, they can always Say ‘this is not to discharge a part of your debt,’ & I have nothing to answer. I objected to it, 8c it was answered to me that if I did not truste the public faith, it Should be better not to enter into any Contract; what I Should have Complied with willingly, if I was not Convinced that it is of the greatest importance for the relief of the brave 8c honest men at the head of the machine to See one of the chief points established upon a proper train. However I shall be glad to have your opinion upon that article as well as upon the great authority which is given to an agent 8c which can be the Source of many 8c many difficulties, if he is not a very honest man 8: a better patriot than many others; at least I request your utmost attention upon the choice of Such an agent, you must be very Sensible how much it is important not to leve it in the power of the Commercial Com mittee to appoint one. “I will do myself the honour of calling upon you in ten minutes to ask your advice about my objections which I cannot make publickly to oppose the report as I have agreed to it.” Laurens Papers, ScHi. 'This and all subsequent articles in the proposed contract correspond to the article bearing the next higher number in the final version. 7 Congress on April 13 authorized the commissioners at Paris "to determine and settle with the house of Roderique Hortales 8c Co., the compensation, if any, which should be allowed them on all merchandise and warlike stores, shipped by them for the use of the United States, previous to the 14 day of April, 1778, over and above the commission allowed them in the 6th article of the proposed contract. JCC, 10:342. Pennsylvania Delegates to Thomas Wharton Sir, York Town March 12th. 1778 Peter Ozeas this day from Lancaster informed one of us that it was the desire of the Speaker and Coll. Morgan that he Ozeas should apply to a Magistrate here to apprehend Mr. Wm. Todd Coachmaker of Philad, who Mr. Ozeas says on his own knowledge issued Counter feit Continental money in Reading. Mr. Todd having left this Town this morning we applied to the board of war for two light horse men and a proper Officer to follow Todd to Baltimore and bring him back, who are to set off this Evening. 1 In tracing this affair we are informed that Todd has ordered his Servant with a portmantua back to Potts grove, while he goes another way, this adds to the suspicion raised by Ozeas’s information, therefore we have thought it of sufficient im portance to furnish this information that you may have an Oppor tunity to send a prudent person to pursue the Servant, and to watch a happy nick of time when the Servant may be charged with counterfeit money, Letters, or other information for the fuller conviction of Mr. Todd, and to discover any accomplicies in the black design that may
