March 12, 1778 285 be against the general cause. We must exercise an Oliverian 2 deli- gence, secrecy and jealousy and search to the bottom of any Con spiracy, for an early conviction and example may have the happiest tendency to suppress so diabolical a Spirit, which otherwise may pre vail to our ruin, therefore Council we doubt not will take every prudent and vigorous step to detect such vile Machinations. We should not on a verbal information have proceeded to any measure, but that Ozeas s testimony concerning the issuing the money may be sufficient, failing of further information which we earnestly desire as a matter of very high importance. We have further information on the same authority that Todd has been lately near the Enemys lines and has dry good to sell. We are respectfully, Sir, Yr. most obt. huml Servts. Dani. Roberdeau Jona. B. Smith P.S. The Servant is a white man. 3 RC (PHarH). Written by Roberdeau and signed by Roberdeau and Smith. 1 For a letter of this date from the Board of War to President Wharton con cerning William Todd’s apprehension, see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:360-61. 2 A synonym for Cromwellian. OED. 3 Roberdeau and Smith also wrote the following brief letter to the Pennsylvania Council this day. “The Committee of Council and Assembly, who left us this day intimated the desire of the State to offer to Congress our Gallies and Zebechs, on reflection the Delegates think it of such importance that they request particular instructions on the head, lest they should act contrary to your, and the intention of the State. We shall expect Instructions and are. Sir, yr most obt huml Servt, Daniel Roberdeau. Jon’a. B. Smith.’’ Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:359. The "Committee of Council and Assembly” referred to had laid a “representation” before Congress on the issue of the Continental Army’s dependence upon the state for "establish ing the necessary magazines” of wheat and flour. Ibid., pp. 333-36; PCC item 69, fols. 485-98; Pa. Council Minutes, 11:434-35; and ]CC, 10:239. See also Henry Laurens to George Clinton, March 24, 1778, note 2. Joseph Reed to George Washington Dear Sir [March 12, 1778] I fear the Arrangement of the Pennsylv. Battalions will be very in conveniently delayed if Gen. Wayne should stay out of Camp much longer, as he is the only General Officer of this State whose Assistance we can expect. If his Stay in Jersey is not very important I submit to your Excelly. whether it would not be best to call him into Camp as the whole Business of the Arrangement &c. now waits for him. 1 RC (PHi). In Reed’s hand, signature clipped. Endorsed: “12th March 1778 from Genl. Reed.”
