286 March 12, 1778 'As this letter is located in the Anthony Wayne Papers, PHi, Washington doubtless forwarded it to Wayne and probably enclosed it with his March 15 letter to Wayne ordering him to Valley Forge immediately. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:86-87. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, York Town 12th March 1778 I have reed, a Letter from Oliver of the 4t inst. by which I had the Pleasure to learn that you and the Family were well. I think you will gratify my Wishes in letting me hear from you every Oppertunity. I have Wrote to you Three Letters, the last of which you may have reed, by this Time which was inclosed in a Letter to Dr. Smith. 1 Nothing Material has occurred since my last. Whatever Information I am able to give of publick Affairs is mentioned in my Letter to Mr Adams, 2 which he will let you See. And from thence be induced to beleive that the Regulating Act will be of no long Duration. 3 I intended to have Wrote to Mr. Reeve. You will present my best Compliments to him. How our Project goes on I have not heard. Oliver will continue to Write to me and let me know his Veiws. I am comfortably Lodged in a private House with a good Family with Mr. Huntington, but We are Obliged to Dine Abroad, but our Dutch Landlady gives us Incouragment that she will before long provide Dinners for us. I still injoy my Health. May I not forget from whom the Blessing is derived. I shall Write to you by every Oppertunity. Take Care of your Health and may the Almighty Bless you. Let our Children know my tender Regard for them. As None of us have a Waiter from Con necticut Who might be more usefull to us than one here as he Might help any of us on our Return if Necessary, I had thot, therefore of sending for Whiting Stanly. You may if you please let me know wheither he would probably come if Sent for—or any other who may be as much depended upon. I told you that Mr. Huntingtons Servant had returned. I hope you have got the Flower of Mr Read. Goods it is said are much fallen at Boston. You will not depend upon Things being Cheaper than they are at present. Every Thing here bears an enormous Price except flower. Wheat may be had for 10 or 12/ per Bushell this Currency. My best Regards to my Friends and be assured of my inviolable Affection for you. Oliver Wolcott RC (CtHi). 'Wolcott’s letter to Litchfield physician Reuben Smith has not been found, but his brief March 6 letter to Laura is in Wolcott Papers, CtHi. “At present,” he had explained to Laura, "I am with Mr. Huntington at private Lodgings, which are good and the Dutch Family with whom We live are Very Neat, simple and kind.
