March 13, 1778 287 We hope that We shall before long make such an Interest with the Family as to perswade them to get Dinners for us. But at present We go abroad for them. Congress adjourn to Dine at one o.Clock and so Meet in the afternoon. This Prac tice is much more agreable than to sit till 5 or 6 o.Clock and I think it expedites Business. "I Wish to hear from you every Opportunity. I have not heard any Thing from Home since I left it. I Wish that you would suffer no unnecessary Anxiety. I trust that God will take Care of us and our Children. For myself I injoy more Health and Freedom of spirits than I expected. Indeed they are good. As to What News I could give I have Wrote in a Letter to Dr. Smith. I shall Write to you every Oppertunity. Your Happiness is the Object of my most fervent Wishes. May the Almighty Protect and Bless you and our Children. I am yours, with the tenderest Affection, Oliver Wolcott.” 2 Not found. 3 See Eliphalet Dyer to William Williams, March 10, 1778, note 5. For Wolcott’s further comments on this subject, see his April 25 letter to Andrew Adams. James Duane to George Clinton Sir Manour Livingston 13th March 1778 Your Excellency’s Dispatches of the 25th of February did not reach me ’till I was proceding to attend the Treaty with the Six Nations. 1 The Scene in which we have been employed as well as the Want of a direct Conveyance, have deprived me of an earlier Opportunity of returning an Answer. I think I informd your Excellency that I set out with the Marquis de la fayette from this place the 15th of February for Albany: his Instructions referring him to me for Information. 2 I had sufficient Reason to believe that the Enterprize which he was to conduct cou’d not go forward: Unwilling however that the most remote discourage ment shoud be ascribed to our State, I resolved to leave him to Judge from his own observations and totally unprejudic’d & uninfluenc’d. He soon discovered the Want of almost every Necessary of which he had been led to expect an abundant Supply. The Number of men was greatly deficient. They were destitute of warm Cloathing; their pay in Arrear, and both the Officers and Privates visibly averse to the Expedition. If the Army had been in the best Condition, and highest Spirits, a sufficient number of Teams (1300 being thought necessary) coud not have been collected in Sea son; and to encrease the difficulties, Forage it was impracticable to procure. The Irruption of the Enemy last Summer having prevented the Harvest in the Northern and North Eastern Parts of this State. Excepting Provisions, Ammunition and the Corps of Militia to be raisd in this State, nothing was ready; and the Opinion of the Gen eral Officers, as well as the publick at large, was strongly opposed to the Probability of Success had every one of these Impediments been
