288 March 13, 1778 removed. The Marquis who attentively examined every Circumstance saw with inexpressible Chagreen the Obstacles which clouded his prospects of Glory, and, after having flattered himself with sanguine Hopes of performing a distinguished Service to this Country, was oblig’d to relinquish the Enterprize without an Attempt to accom plish it. He has, it must be confessed, some Reason to be vexed and disgusted, advised, as he was, to announce to his Court, the Con fidence reposd in him by being elevated to the Command of such an Expedition; and not in the least suspecting that General Gates cou’d be deceiv’d in the Circumstances of a Department which he had Just left, and which coud have undergone no material Alteration. The Plan of Congress, when I was last upon the Floor, was by a sudden Irruption with 3 or 400 Volunteers, to attempt to burn the Enemy’s shipping at St John’s, and to offer a very considerable Bounty in Case of Success; The Command to be given to General Starke who was supposd to be very popular in New Hampshire the western fron tiers of the Massachusetts, & the Grants; and in every other Respect qualified for the undertaking. 3 The adventurous Spirit of the In habitants in these parts, the Dangers to which they must now be exposd while the British Vessels command the Lakes, and the prospect of a great Reward, if they shoud succeed in the Attempt, were thought sufficient Considerations to Justify the Proposition. To me it was given in Charge by Congress, to confer with General Starke 8c deliver him his Instructions and explain their Views This occasiond my repairing to Albany as soon as I coud give him notice to meet me. At first he seemd sanguine that the scheme woud be acceptable and vigorously supported by those over whom he had an immediate In fluence: but on examination it was found that a Reward which de pended only on a prosperous Issue, was too slender a Motive for the Undertaking. A proposal was therefore made to Congress to allow the Volunteers pay at all Events, 8c the Bounty in Case of Success: But on General Gates’s Arrival at Congress the Plan was enlargd into its’ present Form, and the Command conferred on the Marquis. 4 Imagin ing it woud be agreeable to you to have a full View of this Trans action I have been thus circumstantial. I shoud have mentiond to your Excellency when I had the pleasure of seeing you, the original Plan; but as it Depended on Secrecy I was enjoind to communicate it only to General Starke. Altho’ we proposd to hold the Treaty with the Six Nations between the 15th 8c 20th of February it was not till the 27th that we had notice of their Assembling. We repair’d to John’s Town the 28th, but they were so tedious in their movements that the Business was not opend untill Monday the 9th Instant. The Number of Indians was some thing above 700, consisting of Oneidas, Tuscarores, Onondagoes, a few Mohawks, and three or four Cayugoes: but not a single Senaca
