March 13, 1778 289 attended. The latter had the Insolence even to affect their Surprize that while our Tomahawks Stuck in their Heads, their Wounds were bleeding, and their Eyes streaming with Tears for the Loss of their Friends at the German flatts, we shoud think of inviting them to a Treaty! The Speech from Congress 5 was in a Tone becoming the Dignity of Congress and the Spirit and Power of the United States. The gen erous and upright Conduct of these States towards the Six Nations, and their Ingratitude, Cruelty and Treachery were pointed out, and Satisfaction peremptorily Demanded. The faithful Oneidas & Tus- carores were excepted and distinguished. They were applauded for their Integrity and Firmness, and assurd of our Friendship and Pro tection. An Onondagoe Chief spoke for the guilty Tribes. He exculpated himself & the Sachems, threw the Blame on the Headstrong warriors who no longer woud listen to advice, laid a proper Stress on the example of our own internal Divisions and Oppositions, and painted in strong Terms the Influence of the Bribery and Artifices employd by Butler and the other Creatures of the Crown. An Oneida Chief answered for that Nation and the Tuscarores with a Spirit and Dignity which woud not have disgracd a Roman Senator. He pathetically lamented the Degeneracy of the unfriendly Tribes; predicted their final Destruction; and declard the unalterable Resolution of the Oneidas & Tuscarores, at every Hazard, to hold fast the Covenant Chain with the united States, and with them to be buried in the same Grave; or to enjoy the Fruites of Victory and Peace. He fully evinced the Sincerity of these Professions by desiring that we woud erect a Fortress in their Country and furnish a small Garrison to assist in their Defence. This being promisd on our part; He concluded with a solemn assurance that these two nations woud at all Times be ready to cooperate with Us against all our Enemies. In a private manner they warnd us against the Onondagoes who they lookd upon as our Enemies notwithstanding their seeming Con trition for their passed Conduct: and affirmed that there was not the least doubt but that they, the Senecas, &: Cayugoes, woud renew their Hostilities early in the Spring; & that Butler woud take possession of Oswego and get it fortified: For which Events they entreated us to be prepard. In our Reply we applauded again the Courage & Fidelity of the Oneidas & Tuscarores. The other Nations we observed were not suf ficiently represented to Justify our Treating with them. We directed therefore that a Council of their Confederacy shoud be assembled at Onondagoe as soon as possible; that our demand of satisfaction shoud be there publickly made, and from the hostile nations, an explicite Answer returnd: that they shoud be reminded of our upright and
