290 March 13, 1778 their own treacherous Behaviour: that our Cause was Just; that the Hand of the united States coud reach the remotest Corner of the Country of the Senacas; and that we trusted the good Spirit whom we servd woud enable us to punish all our Enemies & put it out of their power to do us further Injury. The Inhabitants of the County who attended in great numbers were highly satisfied with the manner in which the Treaty was con ducted. I think it will probably have a considerable Influence on the Onondagoes, upwards of an hundred of whom were present. They are much intermaried with the Oniedas & will be apt to follow their example. At Least that Tribe will be divided: But from the Senecas and Cayugoes, Sc the greatest part of the Mohawks, nothing but Re venge for their lost Friends, and tarnished Glory, is to be expected: especially while our Enemies are so plentifully supplied with the means of Corruption: and we cannot furnish our best Friends with the necessaries of Life even in the Course of Trade. I hope the Facts I have suggested, which passed under my own Observation, will be sufficient to give your Excellency a competent Knowledge of the Temper and Disposition of the six Nations; and to enable you to take seasonable Measures for the Defence of our Fron tier Inhabitants: at least so far as may depend on the Exertion of our internal Strength. I have conversed with the Marquis who was at the Treaty on this Subject. He has already orderd Troops to Schoharie and Cherry Valley, and directed an Engineer to lay out a fort in the Oneida Country. Sure I am that nothing in his power will be wanting for the Security of every part of this State. As I was on my Journey to John’s Town when I was honourd with the Receipt of your Dispatches: it was too late for your Excellency to execute your Trust respecting the Appointment of an Additional Commisr. for Indian Affairs. Before I left Congress it was pressed upon me to accept the office. I declind it, And on my promise to assist the Commisr. at the propos’d Treaty if necessary, the matter rested for that Time. When I met the Commisrs at Albany the beginning of January to fix the Treaty, it Appeard that there was no prospect of General Wolcot’s, and no certainty of General Schuyler’s Attendance. We concluded therefore to recommend it to Congress to appoint additional Commissioners, which occasioned the power committed to you. 6 The Reason which indued me to decline the Office of Commisr when my Acceptance was requested by Congress, is this. The Jurisdic tion of this State over the Country of the Six Nations is unquestion able as well as ancient, on it depends the legality of all our Seder’s in the Mohawk Country. Apprehensive that the Interference of Congress might one time or other cross the Rights or the Interests of the State, & that as a Trustee for Congress I might be embarrassed and re-
