296 March 15, 1778 I will certainly this day, make some provision for those distressed fellow Citizens of whom you speak & address Mr Franklin through your means. 2 There are obvious objections against a proposal by me for more general contribution. I have once or twice hinted such a thing, 8c made very little impression; tis my Duty Charitably to con clude that every Man does in private as he pleases 8c that every one does somewhat toward the relief of sufferers in our great Cause. Nevertheless my only sentiments in this peculiar case are, that our Light should shine before Men. Were we possessed of the Spirit of Patriotism which flashed in 1775, there would be Contributions at this critical moment not only for the comforting of sick 8c Naked Prisoners but for the relief of all suffering Soldiers—for the support, conservation & augmentation of the Army & we should enable Your General that great & good Man to drive out our Invaders—but alas! that virtue now appears to have been a mere flash. Every Man has bought his Yoke of Oxen, has married a Wife & stays to prove them. Often have you heard me ludicrously express my fears that my Coun trymen in general would prove only good for the Quarter— not for the Course. The present time too well confirms the remark. From the best accounts, from all Accounts, & I have opportunities of receiving the best, you lie at the Mercy of our Enemies, who may disposses & drive you, & in that Act animate our bosom-Enemies, throw the States into consternation & shake our Independency. Yet alas! although all see & acknowledge the danger is not in fancy only, yet time is toyed away—a Senate of 13 Members, seldom above 17-—against whose honesty 8c good meaning I make no exception—Wisdom is justified of her Children. I have in my own name called 8c called again upon the States to fill up their several Representations—the Governors 8c President see 8c acknowledge the necessity—8c there it ends. Men are engaged in private veiws—some are afraid of Expence 8c coarse fare 8c others of being exposed in high Characters 8c dangerous situations— 8c too too many are labouring at all hazards to add field to field. The Villains of exalted Rank who have been plundering our Treasury 8c starving our Cause contribute all their force to keep us down 8c my jealousies that some of these are in contact with Sir William grow strong. If there are Patriots, Men who love Country more than pelf, let them step forth 8c cast their gifts or loans into the Treasury, some by Money 8c some by services without Reward. Others may, because they have ability, give both. I would wish to be in the first Class 8c sub scribe to morrow five or ten thousand Pounds Sterling 8c if these were found insufficient, all my Estate shall be given for saving the Public— & perhaps there will be found in this proposition much of prudent calculation—give part to save the remainder. Be that as it may, or put me into either Class I am chearfully disposed to proceed provided
