March 15, 1778 297 I have any prospect of success, but at present I have none. Proper subscriptions by, sure we may find on this continent from New Hamshire to Georgia, 500 wealthy Men, would raise near three Millions Sterling, return your Paper into the Treasury & animate the Middle 8c lower Ranks of people to adventure Life & fortune in pro portion. I have sounded some breasts on this important subject—but all were cold, applaud the scheme—“if Men would do so it would certainly relieve us’’—8c there was all. Can I then believe that Men are in earnest? Yes I see they are in Earnest to plunder the Common Stock. The very manner of our proceeding in the Issuing our Money leads rapidly on to ruin. What complaints has your General been making for many Months past—without the least good effect—how have delinquents not only been skreened—but held up in triumph 8c can you prevail on me to remain longer among such People? No. I will rather insist upon your abandoning them. But indeed, there, are sometimes my hopes, where you are—A species of Patriotism may at length spring forth from the Army 8c so far save this Country as to drive out the Enemy 8c punish sluggish torpid friends. These Ideas have been long in my mind. I may have expressed them in some late uncopied Letter. If they are worth your reflexion, retain my meaning 8c destroy the Paper record. I dont understand your meaning where you mention DuPlessis books, neither can James assist me, that Gentleman left no Books here. Baron Holzendorff is gone to So Carolina exceedingly chagrined by the treatment he met with here. Poor Man, I almost wept when I learned by a mere accident, that he had been obliged to sell his Silver hilted Sword & Epaulets 8cc. to pay for his Lodging. I instantly put him a step above such necessity—8c have given him Letters to Charles Town which will secure him tolerable quarters there 8c a Passage to his own Country. My Dear son, I pray God protect you, Henry Laurens RC (ScHi). 'These letters are in Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, pp. 131-41. 2 John Laurens had suggested that his father send a sum of money to Thomas Franklin, Washington’s agent in charge of relief for American prisoners of war held captive by the British in Philadelphia. Ibid., p. 137. Franklin’s efforts in be half of these captives are described in his February 16 “Declaration” and William Howe’s February 17 letter to Washington in PCC, item 152, 5:327-41. No letters from President Laurens to Franklin have been found. 3 In order to combat the problem of poor attendance among the delegates, Congress had resolved on March 12 that henceforth every state should constantly maintain at least three delegates in Congress. JCC, 10:245^6.
