March 17, 1778 305 gates of some of these States have not yet received their Instructions, but are in daily expectation of them. New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Deleware, and Georgia could give Congress no satisfactory informa tion of what had been done in their several States, as they had received no authentic Intelligence upon this subject. There can be no doubt but these States will confederate. The Instructions which the Dele gates of Maryland received from the Genl. Assembly were stated upon this occasion to Congress. Several of the States being unrepresented [and] few members prepared to combat our objections, produced [but a] short Debate. The matter now stands posponed till the twenty fifth of this month. 1 As to the two first objections, from the present Temper of the House I believe they will meet with very little opposition. But as to the last, which requires Congress to be invested with full power to ascertain and fix the western Limits of those States which claim to the Mississippi or South Sea all attempts will be vain and fruitless; Equally unsuccessful will prove the Efforts made to obtain a right in common to that extensive Country which lies to the Westward of the frontiers of the United States, the property of which was not vested in Individuals at the commencement of the present war. Much has been already said in Congress upon this subject, and the opinions of those who will have the determination of it, has been long made up. The Argument may be renewed but the Decision will be the same. The bare mentioning of the Subject rouses Virginia, and conscious of her own importance, she views her vast Dominion with the surest expectations of holding it unimpaired. North Carolina has agreed only to the first, second, third, eighth and 12th, the second and third Sections of the fourth, and the last section of 9th Articles which she has instructed her Delegates im mediately to ratify. But the remaining Clauses and Articles, which, she believes, contains matters of the highest importance and involving what may materially affect the internal Interest and sovereign Inde pendency of the state and which is not immediately necessary and essential to the success of the present War, ought not to be ratified till there is full time for mature and deliberate consideration. Connecticut has instructed her Delegates to obtain an alteration in the mode of supplying the common treasury with money by chang ing it from the value of Landed property to the Number of In habitants; if this cannot be done the Delegates are still impowered to ratify. Congress have with great earnestness, and with a Desire of impres sing on the Minds of the several States the necessity of filling up their Battalions, recommended a Draft of the Militias, or other measures that may be effectual. This I know will be a serious piece of Business in our State and dangerous to persue. How it can be effected and at the same time preserve the Temper of the people, I know not. It is
