310 March 19, 1778 prejudiced by so unexampelled a Delay? Will the impartial world be satisfied with the plea that such a Length of time was necessary to find out a Charge of maleconduct, or Evidence to maintain it? Will not Gent, who value their Honour be terrified from hazarding, what is so dear to every good Man, with such austere or such lukewarm masters, who seem prone to suspect a Crime, and indifferent whether the accusd shall ever have an opportunity to vindicate his Innocence? I do not know what passes in other States but here this unreasonable Treatment of officers of high Rank & Confidence is a Topic of general Conversation. Genl Schuyler wants no Office from Congress; He wishes to resign. He can in that Case be highly servicable to his own State; & yet he dare not resign least it shoud be ascribd to his unwil lingness to undergo, what he most wants, a publick & impartial Enquiry and Trial. In the mean time the winter has passed away & the Campaign opening when it will be perhaps impracticable for the witnesses 8c a Court martial to be convend. Is not this sporting with Peoples Reputations and Peace of Mind? You my dear Sir who have an abundant portion of Sensibility, who know how precious a Jewel is a good name, who woud advocate Innocence, as much as you abhor Guilt, will I trust with manly freedom press forward the Trial of General Schuyler without further Delay both upon principles of private Justice 8c publick good. If Evidence cannot be discoverd in eight months the presumption is violent that none exists—especially after the publick Call which has been given, as well as the personal Applications which have made for this purpose. If it is to be taken up as a principle that there can be no Trial ’till Evidence shall be found; there may never be a Trial or Enquiry, 8c this after an Accusation and Suspension woud be a palpable Denial of Justice. But I will not enlarge. I had the unhappiness, my dear Sir, on my Return home to find Mrs. Duane’s Health greatly Impaird. The Dangers and Alarms to which she was exposd during the whole Summer joind to the fateagues 8c distress of a precipitate Flight, and my unexpected long absence, were too violent for her Fortitude and in a manner destroyd her whole nervous System. She recovers very Slowly and it requires all my Care and Attention to keep her in that Flow of spirits which is absolutely necessary to give her any Chance for Health. Consider my dear Friend what a drawback this is from the Happi ness I proposed to myself in rejoining my Family after so long an Absence. May Heaven preserve you 8c yours that first of all earthly Blessings Health. Your Fortitude will give you Contentment and Patience under all the Calamities we suffer in our persons or feel for our Friends. Present my affectionate Compliments to my dear Mrs. Morris, tell her that we often speak of you 8c her with unfeignd Regard, 8c that I am incapable of forgetting the Kindness and Hospi-
