March 19, 1778 311 tality with which I have been always entertaind at every place which called Mr. Morris its owner. Do, my dear sir, write me the news. If you have none, write only that you & your family are well; & that you still remember, your truly affect Friend & most Obedt Servant, Jas. Duane [P.S.] I have expected Mr Duer every day for three months which is the Reason I do not write. I fear the Return of his Indisposition. If he is still with you present him my respectful Complimts as well as to my other colieages & all in whose Remembrance I have a place. RC (NA1I). 1 No doubt Duane is referring to his March 16 letter, which was read in Congress on the 28th but is not now in PCC. JCC, 10:291. 2 For discussion of the congressional investigation of the role of Gen. Philip Schuyler and other officers in the July 1777 evacuation of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence, see John Hancock to Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler, August 5, 1777; and Committee of Congress to Washington, February 7, 1778, note 1. Edward Langworthy to William Palfrey Dear Colonel, York Town, March 19th. 1778 I am extremely sorry to observe that you give the least hint of leaving the Army, tho’ I’m conscious you could do more for your family in a Private Station & that your Abilities & knowledge of mercantile Affairs could not fail of procuring you great Success; but my Dear Sir, it may be dangerous to the great & glorious Cause to suffer private motives to influence us at this Time. True it is, you have made a great Sacrifice already & therefore should think you justifiable to conduct your future Life in whatever mode might be agreeable; but 1 cannot but express my Wishes that you would continue to move in that Sphere, in which it is my real Opinion, no Man in America will do better than yourself. Life is a probationary State & a disinterested Conduct for the Liberties &: good of Mankind will not fail of the Smiles & blessing of that great Being, who governs all & turns our hearts according to his pleasure. I believe it is happy for the Continent that the Committee were sent to Camp, General Fulsom arrived here yesterday, when will the other Gentlemen return? We decrease in Members every Day; Mr Penn & Mr Harvey return to their respective States this week, so that the Congress will want assistance; Do give Mr Morris a hint of this. New York has agreed to the Confederation & directed her Delegates to ratify the same. Mr Wood my Colleague sate out for Georgia yesterday. 1 I shall not
