312 March 19, 1778 leave Congress till the beginning of June & shall do my endeavor to get the Powder of Sago &c here as soon as possible & will send some likewise to Boston. [Of] this shall particularly inform you herea[fter.] As I apprehend you will get into Tra[de] as soon as you leave the Army, I hope [you] will not fail to correspond with me. If the present Cloud should blow over, 1 am certain it would be for our mutual advantage. We have had several Debates this week relative to the Exchange of Prisoners & the Liquidation of Accounts &c; as for my part, I am for relieving at all Events our distressed Friends from Captivity & have given my vote accordingly. 2 Col. Harnet desires his respectful Compliments to you. The Nymphs of the Stove Room smiled at your Ingenuity & remember you with pleasure. I am, Dear Colonel, Your well wisher & very humble servt, Edw Langworthy RC (MH-H). 1 Although Joseph Wood had been in Congress since mid-November 1777, no letter written by him during his period of service has been discovered, nor has evidence been found to indicate precisely when he last attended Congress. Wood was last recorded as voting on February 27; he did not participate in the roll call votes of March 13, 14, and 18. See JCC, 9:931, 10:205, 250-51, 256, 267-68. 2 For the March 18 resolution authorizing Washington to exchange prisoners of war without awaiting final settlement of British prisoner accounts, while retain ing the settlement of accounts as a prerequisite to negotiating a general cartel for future prisoner exchange, see JCC, 10:266-68. Henry Laurens to William Aylett Sir 19th March 1778. I beg leave to refer you to my late Letter of 15th Currt. 1 which General Scott was so polite as to take under his protection & to promise he would deliver on his way to Williamsburg. 2 Within the present Inclosure you will receive two Copies of an Act of Congress of the 13 th Inst, for appointing a Commissary general of purchases, & for ascertaining the allowance for purchasing provisions &c.—to which I beg leave to refer, requesting you to transmit one Copy to John Moore Esquire who I hope is now acting vigorously &: Success fully in the line of the late appointment. I am with much regard &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Colo. William Aylett Esquire, Williamsburg, by John Penn Esqr.” ’See Laurens to Aylett, March 15, 1778. 2 Laurens also wrote a brief letter this day to John Carter of Williamsburg, informing him of his March 16 appointment as Continental prize agent in Virginia.
