316 March 20, 1778 [P.S.] I wrote so hastily with Mr. Penn hurrying me that I fear you’ll not be able to read the letter. Respects to Mr. Buchanan 8c his Lady 8c Mr. Leigh. RC (ViW). 1 Banister had taken his seat in Congress on March 16. ]CC, 10:258. “This letter was doubtless written to Frances Bland Randolph (1752-88), a sister of Banister’s late wife Elizabeth. Frances, the young widow of John Randolph of Matoax, became the wife of St. George Tucker in September 1778, among whose papers Banister’s letter is now located. Jonathan Daniels, The Randolphs of Virginia (Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday & Co., 1972), pp. xx, 97, 111. Cornelius Harnett to Richard Caswell Dear Sir York Town 20 March 1778 I have been laid up with the Gout which has prevented my writing to Your Excellency for some time past having had it in my right hand. Nothing has as yet been determined on in Congress relative to Calling out the Militia of No Carolina. The Army remains still at Valey Forge, & we have been for some time alarmed with the great Scarcity of flesh to feed them. My friend Burke thinks this an Artificial Scarcity; in this we differ much in Opinion, as I am Convinced the want is real, as we have not been Able as yet to lay up any Magazines of Provisions, 8c have had only sufficient to Supply the immediate wants of the Army; I am firmly of Opinion if we fail at all in the Vigour of our Opperations, it will be owing to this Circumstance; & by that means, I fear the war may be prolonged, and our Army re duced to the Necessity of carrying on a defensive war only. I hope I may be mistaken, many Gentlemen think I am; The Provision not coming on as fast as we wish, may perhaps be owing to the badness of the weather, which has rendered the roads almost impassable; how my Collegue (Penn) will get on, I know not, he is the bearer of this 8c I beg leave to refer you to him for further information in regard to Congress Matters. General Washington has it much at heart to Open the Campaign with Vigour before the Enemy can possibly receive reinforcements. Our Committee are not yet arrived from Camp, but are daily expected. It is expected they will, on their arrival, Open a new field for Congress. I intend to set off on my return home some time towards the middle of April, I shall then have been ten Months from my family, and as Our Assembly pay their Delegates so very Liberally, I have neither expectation or wish to return again, as I am convinced there will be many Candidates for the Honorable imployment, I am not one; ’tho
