March 20, 1778 317 I shall think it my Duty to serve my Country to the best of my poor abilities, in any Capacity, either with or without pay. I suppose the Genl. Assembly will be adjourned before my return, I am sorry they had not Continued thier Present Delegates until they were relieved by Others, this might have prevented Our State from being unrepresented in Congress for two or three Months at least, which must be the case as matters now Stand. Virginia has impowered her Delegates to ratify the Confederation. The Members from Massachusets have also private Letters informing them that their State has also done it. 1 I do not hear of any Other States doing it as yet; Connecticut wish the Quota to be fixed by the Number of people in each State; every Other Objection of theirs has little weight. Every member of Congress seems to wish for a Confederacy except my good friend Burke who laughs at it as a Chymerical Project, it does not strike me in that point of view. I think that unless the States Confederate a door will be left open for Continual Contention & Bloodshed, and that, very soon after we are at peace with Europe. I heartily wish I may be Mistaken. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect, Your Excellencys Most Obed & very hul Servt, Cornl. Harnett P.S. Upon enquiry I find the Delegates from the several States have power to ratify the Confederation, but are to endeavor to get some Alterations made if possible. Mr. Penn will give Your Excellency further information on this subject. The Gen. Assembly of N. York have agreed unanimously and have by Commission empowered their Delegates. 2 As I have been informed some aspersions have been thrown out to the Prejudice of Mr. Penn, I must in justice to that Gentleman’s Character assure your Excellency that his Conduct as a Delegate and a Gentleman has been worthy and disinterested. RC (NcU). 1 See James Lovell to Samuel Adams, March 10, 1778, note 1. 2 The New York legislature’s instrument of ratification, signed by Governor Clinton on February 16, is in JCC, 11:665-68. Henry Laurens to Egbert Benson Sir, 20th March 1778. Your Letter of the 31st December which I had the honour of re ceiving the 27 th Jany. was immediately presented to Congress. 1 The Members then present expressed generally their regret that you had declined acting in the Commission for the intended “Enquiry” at Providence & ordered the Letter to be filed by the Secretary.
