330 March 24, 1778 the Board of War recommended that Congress accept Bois' resignation from the Continental Army and pay him “a sum of money” to cover his journey home. Congress then referred this recommendation to the Board of Treasury, which is the last mention of the matter in the journals. See JCC, 10:299, 404, 11:491, 508; and PCC, item 78, 2:403-10. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Sir, 24th March 1778. I am honoured with Your Excellency’s favor of the 12th Inst, by the hands of Colo. Armand. Whatever had been the design, or if it might have been, as Your Excellency charges, intended “deception” of the Board of War I dare again aver, that Congress were not in the project for leaving General Conway in a seperate Command in consequence of recalling Your Excellency &: Baron de Kalb from Albany. I have been more than a little astonished by the freedom of Speech in treating upon that Gentleman’s Character—severe & harsh sentiments have not only been whispered but loudly sounded in my hearing, & even one Gentle man in whom I know he had reposed the greatest confidence gave him up by a mild declaration that he was afraid General Conway was too indiscreet a Man to be trusted with a Command. Thus are Men deceived in this Rascally World. Poor Conway beleives quite a different Creed. I have not the least doubt but that he has wrapped himself secure in the friendship of some, who by fair &: soft personal addresses have tempted him to a confidence, while he is shy of others from whom he has experienced only Candor &: plain dealing. God knows what he is, I have not yet fully heard all sides, nor have I very deeply considered what I have heard. But this I will venture to say to you Dear Marquis, according to the Maxim of an ancient Lawyer “whatsoever a Man sowith that shall he reap,” if he is deceitful, he is paid in his own Coin. I protest humanity shrinks at hearing Men traduce the Character whom they have taught to place a confidence in them—to hear ferocity, sheer Courage, eminent qualities in the Brute Creation, acknowledged to be the only virtues in the mind of a favorite. Is it possible for Men to speak of a friend as they do of a Mastiff? Then steps in another Set, who attempt to strip him even of that specious Virtue. In a word the General once honoured me by asking for my advice, I gave it honestly, he literally pursued, but indirectly, most effectually contravened it. I have therefore no great encouragement to become a volunteer Councellor, but should my sentiments be again demanded, I would find room for inserting, “be advised by me General & return to France ’"here there is a greater Croud.”
