332 March 24, 1778 substantial to follow, but blows. In the mean time the Monied people of England are really alarmed & begin to subscribe for the support of the War. This is a maneuvre which I always dreaded, if the infection spreads our American troubles will not soon be removed. On this side the Water there is too much ground to fear some grand exertion, or some injurious sly stroke, will appear against Valley Forge, Wilming ton or perhaps York Town before General Washington is sufficiently reinforced to admit of detachments or even of facing the Enemy with his whole present Army. I most sincerely wished your Excellency a seperate Command, but since that has not happened, with equal earnestness I wish to hear of your Excellency’s safe arrival at Valley forge, where possibly this may kiss your hand & upon that presumption Colo Armand means to take the Camp in his Route. I dare not detain that Gentleman a moment longer, he is as im patient to be gone as he would be if he was going to be Married, he will admit of no delay. He has experienced none from me as an Indi vidual. I have the honour to be with the most sincere Esteem & Regard &ca. [P.S.] Inclosed are two Letters left here for your Excellency. LB (ScHi). 1 This private letter to Laurens is in Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:350-52. 2 See the next entry. 3 That is, the Board of War’s opening of Lafayette’s February 20 letter to Laurens. See Laurens to Lafayette, March 4, 1778. 1 Lafayette had lost the chevalier de Mauduit Du Plessis’ commission as brevet lieutenant colonel and the January 19, 1778, resolve of Congress that granted it. See JCC, 10:64; Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:351; and Laurens to Du Plessis, April 28, 1778. 6 On April 15 Congress directed Gen. Horatio Gates to repair to Fishkill, N.Y., and resume active command of the northern department. JCC, 10:354-55. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Sir, 24th March 1778 Your Letters of the 11th & 12th of this Month 1 have been laid be fore Congress. They have considered the apprehensions you express, that you & General Kalb are to leave the command of the Troops in that part of the continent where you now are, to General Conway, and your request, of permission to go to France, founded thereon. They wish you to be assured, that they have a very high sense of your merit and attachment to America. They judge it of advantage to the public Service that you and General Kalb be present with the grand army, but when they came to this determination, had not yet resolved
