March 24, 1778 333 on a disposition for General Conway, and had no intention to make any injurious to your honour. They expect this declaration, and the disposition since made for General Conway, 2 will make it unecessary to grant the permission you request. By order of Congress. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 These official letters to Laurens are in Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:344-50. Lafayette’s letters had been referred to a committee of three on March 19, which reported on the 21st that another committee should be appointed “to prepare the draught of a letter, to be signed and sent by the President, to the marquis, in answer to the said letters." Thomas Burke, Francis Lightfoot Lee, and Thomas McKean, the delegates named to this committee, then produced the present letter. See JCC, 10:269, 278. 2 On March 23 Congress decided to order Gen. Thomas Conway to serve at Peekskill, N.Y., under the command of Gen. Alexander McDougall, thus relieving Lafayette’s fear that Conway would remain in command at Albany upon the departure of himself and Kalb. See JCC, 10:280; and Laurens to Lafayette, March 6, 1778, note 5. Laurens notified Conway and McDougall of this resolve in brief letters that he wrote to them this day. PCC, item 13, fol. 240. On the same day he wrote to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., paymaster general in the northern department, and informed him of a March 23 resolve ordering him to supply McDougall with money for as long as the general remained in command in Peekskill. See ibid.; and JCC, 10:280. James Lovell to George Washington Sir March 24th 1778. You will form a Judgement upon the following Extract of a Letter from the Honble Thos. Cushing by weighing it with the various Intelligence which you receive from other Quarters. It has been long on the Road from the Difficulty of passing Hudson’s River where the Express lost his Horse on the 11th of this Month. “Sir Extract Boston Feb. 28th. 1778 “Mr. Hancock having just informed me that he shall send off an Express tomorrow morning for Congress, I embrace the opportunity to convey to you a peice of Intelligence I have just received from Mr. Wm. Davis, a Member of our House, who left Dartmouth last Thursday. He says he was credibly informed there that some persons (having by some means or other got the Countersign) went from Tiverton to Newport to gain Intelligence of the Enemy’s Designs, they returned from there on Monday Evening the 23d Instant. They inform that all the Women 8c Children belonging to the British Troops were gone to New York and the Invalids gone to England. That the Troops were making preparation for Embarking, and the Officers had been heard to say that General Howe had given orders for them to be in Readiness to sail for Philadelphia by the 20th of
