March 27, 1778 343 to, is the Postscript of my Letter the 6th Inst. 2 I read that to General Gates & the fact was public, therefore the intimation can give no offence. In a word permit me to assure Your Excellency that neither the manner nor the matter of the late disclosure affects me with the Slightest degree of Chagrin, except my feelings for the vexation which that circumstance had given you. Your Excellency’s Letter to Congress is Reported & Committed to a Select Committee. Our business of this nature proceeds slowly, there fore I will not detain the Messenger but return him to morrow Morning with this. Such determinations as Congress may make in consequence of the expected Report from Committee will in all prob ability meet you at Valley forge. 3 I presume you will commence your retrograde journey soon after the return of the present bearer. An authentic account from Holland of 25th October assures us the States have demanded restitution for a Dutch Ship taken in the Channel by an English Man of War under pretences of her being American built—that all the capital Houses in Trade (Hope & Comp, excepted) have united in application for Convoys to their West India Trade & that the number of friends to American Independence increased daily in that Country. 4 Yesterday a Gentleman from Virginia imported a peice of intelli gence of extraordinary magnitude—which had just arrived from the French West Indies. France, Spain, Portugal, Prussia & Poland have concurred in sentiments to recognize the Independence of these United States. I will not say this is impossible but have advised the printer to preface the Account by such an apology as will save him hereafter from the charge of forgery. Your determination Dear Marquis to do nothing which may in any degree injure the American Cause is the fruit of a Noble Heart— indeed were you to retire at this Instant unhappy consequences. 5 LB (ScHi). 1 Lafayette’s private March 20 letter to Laurens is in Lafayette Papers (Idzerda), 1:366-69. “In the letter cited above, Lafayette insinuated that he had shown Gen. Thomas Conway the postscript of a March 6 letter from Laurens stating that the marquis and Baron de Kalb were to rejoin Washington’s army while Conway was to remain behind in Albany, which would have made Conway acting commander of the army there. 3 Lafayette’s official March 20 letter to President Laurens was referred to a com mittee this day, but no report on it has been found. See JCC, 10:287; and Lafay ette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:362-65. * Congress had received this “authentic account’’ in the form of an October 14, 1777, letter to the committee of foreign affairs from Charles W. F. Dumas, Con gress’ agent at The Hague. Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:407-8. Laurens erred in giving the date of this letter as October 25. 3 For the continuation of this letter, see Laurens to Lafayette, April 8, 1778.
