344 March 27, 1778 Henry Laurens to George Read Sir. York Town 27th March 1778. Within the present Inclosure you will receive two Packets under date of the 9th & 10th Ulto. which I had pressed upon the Honorable Mr. McKean to take into his care & forward but he declined. I intreat you to be assured that notwithstanding any seeming delinquency on the part of the President of Congress in his correspondence with Deleware he is by no means chargeable with the smallest neglect, although I will not detain you at present with proofs or apologies. The bearer of this to Wilmington is on the wing 8c I must embrace the opportunity to transmit by him the Letters above mentioned together with the several Acts of Congress enumerated below. 1. 26th February for filling the Continental Battalions to which is annexed a Return from the Board of War shewing the Numbers wanted to compleat. 2. Same date for ascertaining the Amount of Accounts for neces saries supplied British Prisoners from the commencement of the present War. 3. 7th March for setting apart Wednesday 22d April for a General Fast. 4. 11th March for defraying the expences incurred by carrying into execution a Resolve of Congress of the 9th February last. 5. 12th March Recommending that each State send at least three Members to Congress during the War. 6. 16th March for obtaining from the several States information of their proceedings on the Recommendations of Congress 8cc. If you will be pleased to inform me the best or to point out a par ticular mode for conveying dispatches hereafter I shall pay that regard, which I hold to be due to your advice, 8c depend upon me Sir, for as strict an attention to Delaware as I regularly observe to every State in the Union within the circle of my Duty. I have the honour to be, With very great regard, Sir, Your obedient 8c Most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress P.S. This Instant the Secretary has sent in 8c you will receive with other papers an Act of the 19 March Recommending to the several States to take the most effectual measures for raising their quota of Men 8cc. RC (Henry Laurens, Flat Rock, N.C., 1973).
