348 March 28, 1778 my Letter about sending me a Servant. I must endeavour to get on by hiring One, from Stage to Stage. I dare not tell you how ill I have been, how ill I am now; or how soon I expect to be better. But Mrs Harnett must not know it. I ride out on horse-back every day & think I mend. Make my respectful Compliments to all my friends & believe me, Dr Sir, Your sincere friend &c, Cornl Harnett [P.S.] I beg you will Shew Civility to Major Lucas, for my sake &: his own. RC (PHi). Henry Laurens to John Laurance Sir, York Town 28th March 1778 Your Letter to Mr. Duane of the 18th November was presented to Congress the 9th Inst, and was yesterday taken under consideration, when it was Resolved to augment your Salary as will appear by an Act of Congress for that purpose which I have the honour of trans mitting within the present Inclosure. 1 I am with great Respect, sir, Your obedient & most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (NHi). Addressed: “John Laurance Esquire, Judge Advocate general in the Army of the United States of America, Valley forge Camp.” 1 In his November 18, 1777, letter to James Duane, who was then a member of the Board of Treasury, Judge Advocate General Laurance had complained that he was being underpaid and had asked Congress to give him “Pay and Rations equal to those of a Colonel” as well as “Provender for two Horses.” PCC, item 78, 14:251-52. On March 27 Congress decided to allow Laurance “seventy-five dollars per month [the regular monthly pay for a colonel], his former rations, and forage for two horses.” See JCC, 5:853, 10:290. Henry Laurens to Ebenezer Learned Sir, 28th March 1778. Your favour of the 12th which reached me the 23d Inst, having been taken under consideration in Congress, the House Resolved to accept the Resignation of your Commission & within this Inclosure you will receive the Act for that purpose. 1 Permit me to add as an Individual that from the high opinion I have entertained for your excellent Character as a Soldier & a Citizen I regret the loss which the public will Suffer in one part on this
