354 March 30, 1778 proposing the creation of this corps. PCC, item 147, 1:557. Congress had forbidden the enlistment of prisoners of war or deserters into the Continental Army in a February 26 resolve, but Washington raised the issue of exempting Pulaski's corps from this ban in his March 14 letter to Laurens. Perhaps Congress rescinded per mission to Pulaski to recruit prisoners because of Washington’s March 12 warning to Laurens that this practice would undercut efforts to end General Howe’s policy of “obliging or permitting the prisoners in his hands to inlist.” See JCC, 10:203, 291; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:73, 81. Despite Congress’ resolves and Washington’s orders forbidding this practice, however, Pulaski, with the encouragement of the Board of War, proceeded to enlist prisoners of war anyway, thereby offending both the delegates and the commander in chief. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:337; and letters to William Atlee from Laurens, May 29, and from Thomas McKean, June 5, 1778. 2 See JCC, 10:295; and Laurens to Washington, March 15, note 1, and April 8, 1778, note 4. Francis Lewis to the New York Convention Dear Sir, York Town, 30 March 1778. 1 I had the honor to write you the 25th Ultimo & 7th Inst, acknowl edging your favor of the 11th January, 2 and pursuance to your re quest, & my duty, I shall proceed to give you every information in my power relative to the Public Weal. About two Months ago Congress sent a Committee of their Body to Camp in order to consult with the General upon a mode for regulating the Army. Mr Danna, one of that Committee is returned with a Report for the new arrangement of the Army in which it is proposed to reduce the present establishment to 88 Battalions, each to consist of one Colonel, one Lieut Colonel, one Major, six Captains, one Capt. Lieut., Eight Lieuts, nine Ensigns, The Staff to be ap pointed out of the Line. The Qr. Mrs. General for the Grand Army are already appointed, vizt Major Genl. Green, with a Col. Cox & Mr. Pettit (both of this state) as assistant Qr. Masrs. General. There has been great complaints of neglect & peculation in this department, into which a strict inquiry will be made. The Report proposes half pay to all Commissioned Officers on the new Establishment, who shall remain in the service at the end of the War. Congress has already employed a Week, de diem in diem, de bating warmly upon this point, & nothing yet determined. The half pay scheme meets with great opposition, the House divided in a Com mittee of the Whole, the Question not yet put, but will I believe tomorrow, if carried in the affirmative (wch is still with me a doubt) it will be for a limmited term of years, & not for life. 3 By a letter from General Washington receivd last night, we are informed the Enemy are preparing for an Expedition. 4 They have
