April 3, 1778 365 already empowered their delegates to ratify it; however, I will exert every nerve to accomplish any measure which shall be recommended by my constituents, who may think it advisable to direct their depu ties to endeavour to procure any explanation of certain doubtful expressions in different articles, if they should not think it proper to do more. Nothing has been effected with regard to president M’Kinley; 2 but as the cartel for a general exchange is now debating, and settling be tween three commissioners on the part of general Washington, and the like number on the part of general Howe, in Germantown, where they met on the last day of March, I hope in a few weeks, something favorable for him may be done. If you can procure any clothing for the Delaware battalion, it may be useful, but I am confident there is sufficient for the whole army, already purchased by congress, for above a year; and yet I am told the most of the troops are naked—peculation, neglect of duty, avarice, and insolence, in most departments abound; but, with the favor of God, I shall contribute my part to drag forth and punish the culprits, though some of them are high in rank, and characters I did not suspect. You will also receive a little pamphlet of the earl of Abington’s, which is worth your perusal. 3 General Rodney is not yet arrived, nor could I procure a lodging for him in town when he comes; indeed, when I return, I shall be at an equal loss for myself; this is discourag ing, but we must not expect much comfort during this great and glorious struggle. It is reported Howe is recalled, and is to be suc ceeded by lord Townshend: this will be an active, and I fear a bloody, campaign. April 12th, at Lancaster. I find you give up the command in chief to general Rodney, so that perhaps it may suit you to come to congress. 4 I am, Sir, Your most obedt. friend, Thos. M’Kean MS not found; reprinted from John Sanderson, Biography of the Signers to the Declaration of Independence, 9 vols. (Philadelphia: R. W. Pomeroy, 1820-27), 4:65-69. 1 George Read’s March 4 letter to McKean is in William T. Read, Life and Correspondence of George Read, a Signer of the Declaration of Independence . . . (Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott & Co., 1870), pp. 303-7. It was read in Congress on March 12. ]CC, 10:246. 2 See McKean to Read, February 12, 1778, note 2. 3 McKean doubtless enclosed a copy of the Earl of Abingdon’s Thoughts on the Letter of Edmund Burke, Esq. to the Sheriffs of Bristol, on the Affairs of America (Oxford, 1777), which had just been reprinted in Lancaster by John Dunlap. For further information on Abingdon’s pamphlet, see John Henry to Thomas John son, February 17, 1778, note 2. 4 On March 31 the Delaware Assembly elected Caesar Rodney, a brigadier general
