366 April 3, 1778 in the state militia, to replace Read as president of Delaware, Read having served as acting president since John McKinly’s capture by the British in September 1777. Rodney, Papers (Ryden), pp. 256-57. McKean wrote a letter of congratulations to Rodney on April 8 that has not been found, but see Rodney’s April 18 reply in Delaware Archives, 3:1449-50. Marine Committee to John Langdon Sir April 3d. 1778 We have received your Letter of the 3d of March, and must confess that it gives us great concern that you should have been thrown into so disagreeable a Situation for want of a proper supply of Money. So great and so frequent have been the demands on the Treasury for that necessary article that it hath been out of our power to furnish the Navy Board agreeable to our wishes. It is on this account princi pally that we have wrote to them directing them to stop the building of the seventy four gun ship at Portsmouth. 1 You will drop the build ing of her for the present & take proper measures for securing and seasoning the Timber provided for her. We shall procure an order on the Treasury or a warrant on the Loan Offices eastward if possible to enable them to supply you with some money; hereafter when the great departments of the Army shall have been supplied therewith, we will endeavour at the payment of all our debts, and don’t doubt but that we shall be able to accomplish it, in the mean time you must make your self and your Creditors as easy as possible. We are satisfied with your conduct and believe that the Building of the Ships at Portsmouth hath been conducted with as much oeconomy and ad vantage to the Continent as in any of the United States. The Navy Board at Boston are empowered to settle all Marine Accounts in their Department—the Commercial Accounts must be transmitted for settlement to the Committee of Commerce. We are with respect, Sir, Your very humble servts LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 See Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, April 6, 1778. Henry Laurens to Pierre Etienne Du Ponceau Sir, 1 York Town 4th April 1778 I am much indebted for your favor of the 2d Inst. The common Civilities which I had the honor of shewing you in York Town were as far short of my wishes as they were of that attention which is
