April 4, 1778 367 due to every polite stranger, let the times & circumstances by which my inclinations were cramped be my apology. Your sentiments Sir, respecting the Contest in which we poor Americans are engaged are truly liberal, they are Noble. If I were not perfectly assured of their consistency with the eternal Laws of truth & justice I would abandon the Cause & persuade you to follow the example before I subscribed to this Letter, but conscious as I am of the righteousness of our Claims, it is with pleasure I hear your determination to persevere in the line of Duty which was the object of your free Choice. I wish you frequent trials & upon every occasion success & honor & I beg you will rank among your friends, Sir, Your most obedient & humble servant, Henry Laurens RC (NNC). Endorsed: “I arrived in America at Portsmouth N.H. 1 Deer 1777. This letter dated 4 months afterwards proves that at that period my mind was fixed to remain in and devote myself to this Country. This is a precious paper for me. P.S.D. 25 May 1831.” 1 Pierre Etienne Du Ponceau (1760-1844), French-born author and lawyer, arrived in America in December 1777 as Baron von Steuben’s secretary and was appointed captain in the Continental Army on February 18, 1778. He acted as Steubens aide-de-camp until illness forced him to retire from military life in 1779, and then served as Robert R. Livingston’s under secretary of foreign affairs from 1781 to 1783. After the war Du Ponceau settled in Philadelphia where he enjoyed a long and distinguished career as a lawyer, legal scholar, and philologist. DAB. There is no basis for the suggestion in Burnett, Leiters, 3:227n.6, that Laurens probably wrote this letter “in response to a communication from Du Ponceau of a date subsequent to May 11.” Both the RC of the letter and the LB, which is in the Laurens Papers, ScHi, are clearly dated April 4, and there is nothing in the letter itself to indicate a later date. It is interesting to note that in an autobiographical reminiscence written in 1836 Du Ponceau observed of his relationship with Laurens: "Henry Laurens . . . was to me as a father, by the excellent advice he gave to me, as well verbally, as by letters, after we separated.” "Autobiographical Letters of Stephen S. Du- ponceau,” PMHB 40 (1916): 176. Henry Laurens to William Heath Si r> York Town 4th April 1778 Yesterday I had the honor of presenting to Congress your favors of the 21st & 24th March & although I have received no particular commands relative to their several Contents I am warranted by the general Voice of Members to intimate that you have received the applause of the House for your determinations respecting the adjust ment of Accounts with General Burgoyne. 1 I hope you have received the late large remittance of Money from the Treasury as well as the smaller Sum sent by Messenger
