368 April 4, 1778 Millet & that you are releived from the trouble which, I am sensible, the want of it must have occasioned you. I remain with very great Esteem & Regard, Sir, Your most obedient servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (MHi). 1 General Heath’s March 21 and 24 letters to Laurens are in PCC, item 157, fols. 97-102. In the first he described how he had required Gen. John Burgoyne to abide by a December 19, 1777, resolve forbidding the release of British prisoners of war until they had paid for the supplies they had received from their captors in “pro visions or other necessaries, equal in quality and kind to what have been supplied, or the amount thereof in gold and silver, at the rate of four shillings and six pence for every dollar of the currency of these states.” See JCC, 9:1037. In the second he reported a rumor that Great Britain was sending 30,000 reinforcements to America under the command of Sir Jeffery Amherst. Henry Laurens to Baron Steuben Dear sir, York Town 4 April 1778. I can no longer submit to remain a subject of my own reproaches nor refrain from asking your forgiveness for my delinquency respect ing the very polite Letters which you have honoured me with under the 12th Ult. & 2d Inst. 1 Beleive me Sir, I am made very happy by repeated Accounts of the great utility of your presence & aid in our principal Camp joined with Your Excellency’s intimations of Contentment in the very humble station which for the benefit & improvement of the American Army you are pleased to submit to. I entertain the most confident expectations that good discipline will be established in Front & Ranks by Your Excellency’s Inspection & superintendence &: I am as fully persuaded that suitable acknowledgements will be made on the part of the People in their Representative body & by thousands individ ually as occasions shall offer. Accept I intreat you Sir of my particular thanks, of my sincere wishes for Your Excellency’s health & continued success. When shall I become an official correspondent? the opening may possibly depend upon the return of the Committee from Camp, when our worthy Commander in Chief may announce to Congress your condi tionary appointment &: meritorious services. I wish it may be soon, that your mind may be more composed. Permit me to assure you Dear Baron, in every case where I can consistently with that of these Infant States, I shall be devoted to your Interest & honor. 2 A Gentleman late from Charles Town brings no advice of Mr. Leterjettes arrival nor have I from any quarter received Letters for Your Excellency. York Town affords no interesting intelligence. I
