April 5, 1778 371 Soldiers from New-York, and we have a report from the eastward that the Troops at Rhode-Island were embarking to reinforce Genl. Howe, with a view to enable him to make an efficacious attack upon our encampment before the recruits from the several States shall have joined the main army. It is of the utmost importance that the states should fill up their battalions and send them forward immediately. I find that my information, respecting the negroe Regiment, was not good. 3 Since I had the honour of writing to you, one of the committee from camp hath informed me that it was not the intention that we should have two battalions in the field, that the surplusage of our recruits, above the number necessary to complete our one battalion, was to remain in the state so long as it should continue to be invaded. Inoculation is carried on in camp with such great success that recruits may come forward without any reluctance. Out of three thousand six hundred, which were lately inoculated at Valley forge, eleven only died of the small pox. An Important questions are on the carpet, whether an establish ment of half pay for life or term of years shall be allowed to military commissioned officers who shall continue in service to the end of the war? Whether any provision shall be made for the widows of those Officers who have fallen or shall fall in battle, and whether some allowance shall be made to such soldiers as inlist during the war and shall continue in the service to the end of the war? The first is the great question. A Question of such magnitude, in my opinion, that I am one of those who think that it ought to be referred to the consideration of the States. At present it is postponed at large. 4 When it shall be resumed it will be moved that it should be so referred; but whether the motion will meet with success or not is uncertain. I could wish to be instructed by my constituents how to give my voice especially on the capital question; will beg leave to expect it. If I should be called upon, before I receive the Instruc tions I wish, and shall expect, to give my vote, I shall do it as shall appear to me to be right, and if I should not jump in Judgment with my constituents I hope I shall not be censured. Congress have recommended it to the States to transmit as early as possible such Acts as they have passed in pursuance of Resolutions of Congress, since the first, I think it is, of November last. I wish that our state may attend to the recommendation. I have not received any authentic Information of what hath passed our Assembly for a long time, and what I have heretofore received were such abridg ments of Acts as were of but little use. The circumstances of my family are such as to necessitate my return home immediately after the election, I hope therefore that the Assembly will order on to Congress, the Delegate which may be chosen directly. By a private Letter I am informed that your Ex-
