April 6, 1778 373 as shall appear proper & necessary for discovering facts if there has been a criminal or unjustifiable correspondence between the said Mr. Swanwic 8c any person under protection of the Enemy. The Board may judge it necessary to dispatch proper persons to inspect without alarm the papers of the Mother of the Culprit. The Name of the Informant is known but reserved for the present at her particular desire. I have the honour to be with very great Regard & ca. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Horatio Gates Esquire, President of the Board of War, Lancaster.” 1 See also Laurens to Robert Morris, April 6; and Robert Morris to Laurens, April 7 and 13, 1778. 2 Laurens also wrote a letter this day to Col. David Mason, informing him that Congress had referred his March 21 letter to the Board of Treasury. PCC, item 13, fol. 253. Mason’s letter is not in PCC, and there is no record of any further action on it in the journals. Henry Laurens to Robert Morris Sir, York Town 6th April 1778 In obediance to an order of Congress passed this Morning I trans mit a Paper within the present Inclosure containing an information against Mr. Swanswick a young Gentleman in your service, to which for particulars I beg leave to refer you. Congress request 8c confide in you, to make immediately the most diligent 8c effectual enquiry into the conduct of Mr. Swanswick re specting his correspondence with Philadelphia 8c other charges inti mated in the Paper referred to. The Name of the person who gave the Information is known but at present reserved by her particular desire. I have the honour to be, Sir, Your obedient 8c Most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (Creighton C. Hart, Kansas City, Mo., 1974). Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen March [i.e. April] 6th 1778 1 We acknowledge the receipt of yours of the 20th Feby., of the 2d 8c 17th of March last, and are exceedingly pleased to hear that the Warren, after having been so long cooped up in the Bay had got out to sea. We have since heard that she is arrived at Boston and car ried in two or three Prizes. 2 We should be glad to get the Providence
