April 6, 1778 374 and other armed Vessels out of the River, and at a less expence than we find will attend it, but they must be got out let the expence be what it may, if it should be practicable and from the success that hath attended such attempts we infer its practicability. We highly approve of the Conduct of the Board in getting out the Warren and don’t doubt but that they will exert themselves in getting out the Providence & Columbus, especially as the season for brisk, steady north winds will in a Short time be over, and we are sure that you will exercise frugallity wherever it may be beneficial. The Demands upon the Treasury from the great departments of the Army are so large and frequent that they cannot be supplied. We have however procured Three Warrants—One on the Loan Office of New Hampshire for 30,000 Dollars—One on Massachusets Bay for 40,000, and One on Connecticut for 30,000 making 100,000 Dollars transmitted herewith for the use of your Board. 3 We chose to have them on those different States, because Money will be wanted in each. If the Money cannot be had at the offices, the Certificates may be disposed of—you will take care that Mr. Langdon hath his share. We have already advised you that we have paid Mr. Shaw 40,000 Dollars and charged the same to your Account, part of which money we presume will be applied towards fitting out the Trumbull &c. The Warrants we returned to you corrected we are glad to find have reached you. We have determined to stop the building of the Seventy four at Portsmouth for the present, and desire you will give orders accord ingly, and for seasoning of the Timbers prepared for her. You will man and equip the Warren with all possible dispatch and order her out on a Cruize to the West Indias with directions to Captain Hopkins to apply to Mr. Bingham at St. Pierre Martinico or Mr. Ceronio at Cape Francois, Hispaniola, for such supplies as he may Chance to want, and send the Prizes he may take to their address or to the Continent as he may judge proper. You will further direct him towards the Close of his Cruize to go to Cape Francois, call upon Messrs. Ceronio & Carrabasse for such goods as they may have to ship and take in what he can conveniently bring to the Continent without hurting the Ships sailing. You will furnish us with a Copy of the Instructions you shall give him. By the Notes in the Margin and endorssment on the Account which you sent to us for inspection, and which we now remit you will see what part thereof is allowed and what rejected. Before discharging the wages of those and any other Continental officers, you will procure from the Continental Agents in your district accounts of the Monies they have paid them on that score. We have ordered the Paymaster of the Navy in this district James Read Esqr to transmit to you a State of Captain Olneys Account, and the Ac-
