376 April 6, 1778 objections, otherwise we shall not consider him any longer as being in the service of the Continent. We approve of your altering the name of the Industrious Bee to that of the General Gates altho we think it would have been a higher compliment to have given his name to a frigate. We cannot determine upon a proper person to command the frigate at Salisbury, We would have the berth left open for Captain Manley as he may be exchanged, and for the present the Charge of her be given to the person who you may judge suitable for a first Lieutenant of her. We leave to you to determine respecting the Lieutenants who are desirous to make a Cruize of a few Months. Inclosed are the Rules &: Regulations of the Navy. Congress has ordered us to Revise them. 10 If you can sug gest any New Rules or alterations that will be necessary, we would be glad you would propose them, and if you can by any means procure a British Privateers Commission, send it forward to us. Coppies of Captain Judds and the Captain of the Jamaica Packets may answer—they were taken by Captain Harding of the Connecticut State ship and their Commissions are in the Maritime Court of the Middle District Massachusets. We have ordered Mr. Barnabas Deane of Connecticut to lay his Accounts against the frigate Trumbull before you, 11 which you will please to examine and transmit to us a Copy of his account Current when we shall give Orders for the paymt. of the balance that may be due to him. We are Gentlemen, Yr humble Servants 12 LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Internal evidence clearly indicates that this letter was actually written in April. ’ After running through the British blockade off Newport, R.I., the Warren took two prizes before arriving in Boston on March 23. “Papers of William Vernon and the Navy Board,” Publications of the Rhode Island Historical Society 8 (January 1901): 214, 229-30. ’These warrants were ordered by Congress on April 4. JCC, 10:308-9. * No letter from the Marine Committee to James Read has been found. “See the resolve of March 20 in JCC, 10:272. ’According to these October 30, 1776, resolves on prize distribution. Continental naval officers and crew were entitled to one half of the value of captured merchant men, transports, and store ships and the entire value of British war ships and privateers. John Peck Rathbun unconvincingly contended that the armed mer chant brig Mary, which he had taken during his recent occupation of Fort Nassau, Bahamas, belonged in the latter category. See JCC, 6:913; and “Papers of William Vernon and the Navy Board,” Publications of the Rhode Island Historical Society 8 (January 1901): 217. ’ On April 7 the Marine Committee wrote the following note to Capt. Pierre Landais, a French naval officer who had been commissioned by Silas Deane to com mand the Flamand on her recent voyage to America: “It would give us much pleasure could we at this time comply with your wishes by giving you a command in the Continental Navy, but it is entirely out of our power, without neglecting Several good Commanders who are already in Commission but unemployed, and whose merit and former services we cannot over look.” PCC Miscellaneous Papers,
