386 April 7, 1778 for the Purpose of Stregnthening his Army in Case of an Attack, which I am sorry to say that I see no probability of soon, or to be employed to Act offensively against our Army, is uncertain. A Scandalous Languor still exists amongst the People of this State. I suspect that they have not yet suffered that Chastisment which is Necessary for them. There Wants nothing (according to human Prob ability) but a proper Spirit in this People to put an end to the War— But which thro’ their infamous Baseness, may be drawn out to a considerable Length, unless the Power of G. Britain should be diverted, by a War with her Neighbours, of which there is no cer tainty. Material Indigence may be dayly expected, but as you have foraign News earlier at the eastward than We have here, you will probably receive it sooner than any Information I shall be able to give you. The Regulating Acts have no Effect in this State. Nothing of the kind has any Existence at the Southward, and you may depend upon it that the Operation of Acts of this Nature, will soon be suspended or Abrogated every where, And perhaps Congress will Advise to Repeal this Act. You will present my kindest Love to my Children, Family and Freinds, and be assured of My tenderest Affection for you. Oliver Wolcott P.S. My half years Service will expire next June when I shall expect to be releived by Mr. Adams or some other of the Gentlemen Ap pointed to Attend Congress. RC (CtHi). 1 Wolcott’s fourth letter to his wife from York is dated March 12, 1778. “Although the exact date of Eliphalet Dyer’s departure from York is not known, he was granted a leave of absence by Congress on April 3 and was not recorded as voting after that date. JCC, 10:305. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette 8th April [1778] Notwithstanding what is said above I have detained this Messenger 13 days from day to day hoping the next wou’d produce Commands from Congress but the Committee to whom your Letter was referred have not yet Reported. Excuse us good Sir. We are indeed deeply engaged in very important &: complicated businesses, but in order to remove an anxiety which this long delay must have occasioned I will not keep this back an hour longer. I think you will soon be at Valley forge, where Baron Stiiben is making great improvements & giving much satisfaction to every Body. Will you Sir be so obliging as to inform Major DuBois that I have duly presented his addresses to Congress, that these are referred to the B. of W. 1 & that the moment
