388 April 8, 1778 had been collected to Congress & by order, transmitted the whole to General Washington, & then the Committee were discharged. The General in a Letter of the 27th Febry. intimated a necessity for Stating Charges. A new Committee was thereupon appointed, who soon after offered a Report which was about to be determined upon the 28th Ulto. when the Honorable Mr. Duer interposed arguments which induced the House to postpone the intended consideration for two days. I take the liberty to name that Gentleman because his declared motives for delay were coupled with assurances of particular considerations respecting General Schuyler & because there can be no ground for doubting the goodness of his intentions. On the 4th Inst. I called on Mr. Duer, reminded him of his engagement & urged the painful situation in which his friend was suspended—yesterday I directed the Secretary to repeat the call. General Washington has again written upon the Subject, I was in hopes this would have proved an incitement, but all remains still dormant. I hope to give no of fence, but I will this very Morning remind Congress of the business again. 2 Be assured Sir, I have long Sympathized with Gentlemen who are Subjects of that Enquiry, abstracted from all Ideas of Censure or applause, & although it was with extreme reluctance I obeyed the order of Congress to be of the Original Committee after having offered such reasons for exemption as appeared to me to be forcible, yet I cannot charge my Self with delinquency at any stage in the course of our proceedings. To account for the uncouth entangled State of this enquiry would not be half so difficult as it might be improper in the line of official correspondence, therefore I shall only add that my endeavors shall be continued for putting it in motion. I have the honour to be with very great respect. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 General Schuyler’s March 15 letter to Laurens is in PCC, item 153, 3:286-91. In it Schuyler reported on a recent conference with the Six Nations at Johnstown, N.Y., and urged adoption of certain measures to secure New York’s northern frontier, including a preventive strike against the Mohawk’s, Cayugas, Onondagas, and Senecas; seizure of British posts at Niagara and Oswego; and increased trade with the Oneidas and Tuscaroras. Not until June 11, however, did Congress approve a report by the Board of War on “the cruelties lately exercised by the savages on the frontiers of New York, Pensylvania and Virginia," which was based upon Schuyler’s letter as well as others from the commissioners for Indian affairs in the northern department and the commissioners at Fort Pitt. See ]CC, 11:587-91; and Barbara Graymont, The Iroquois in the American Revolution (Syracuse: Syracuse University Press, 1972), ch. 7. 2 See also Laurens to Washington, April 4, 1778, note 2.
