April 9, 1778 397 I immediately upon being authorized by an Act of Congress I shall dispatch a Special messenger to wait on you. I am with very great Esteem. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: "Sampson Mathews, Geo Clymer & Sam. McDowell Esquires, Commissioners on the Western frontier, Fort Pitt.” rThe commissioners’ March 31 letter to Laurens, which recommended a num ber of measures for defending the frontiers of Pennsylvania and Virginia and was signed by George Clymer and Sampson Matthews, is in PCC, item 78, 2: 445-46. The committee to which it was referred submitted a report on “the protection of, and operations on the western frontiers” that Congress approved on May 2. JCC, 10:313-14, 11:416-17. Committee member Jonathan Bayard Smith—not William Ellery, as Worthington C. Ford asserts in JCC, ll:416n.3—summarized the commissioners’ letter and made preliminary suggestions for the committee’s report in the following undated notes written sometime before May 2: “Two Regiments to be raised for 2 years. “12 Comps, in Virginia & 4 in Pennsylvania. "Order of Congress for sending down McKee, Gitty [Girty] & Elliot. “Request from Hand to be recalled & a successor to be recalled [i.e. appointed]. "A Commissary of provisions to be appointed & to act as P[ay] M[aster] & Q[uarter] Mfaster] in Rockingham Co. &c. N.B. Capt Pat. Lockhart of Botetourt recomd. “Colo. Morgans letter to Colo. Buchannan with copy of Contract to be referred to the board of war. “A Commy. to be appointed for the Counties of Rockingham, Augusta, Rock bridge, Botetourt, Montgomery & Washington & Green Briar. ^'That 2 Regiments be ordered immediately to Pittsburg Viz. Colo. Russels of Virginia and Colo. McCoys of Pennsylvania for the immediate defense of the frontiers.} "That Genl. Washington be directed to order to Pittsburg one of the most reduced Virginia & one of the most reduced Pennsylvania Regiments & That their officers take effectual means for recruiting them in the Western Country to their full Compliment, & be authorized to take recruits to serve for 1 year unless sooner dismissed by Congress which said recruits shall receive 20 ds. bounty & the same cloathing as other Continental soldiers. And every noncommd. officer & private who shall furnish himself with a blanket, musket or Rifle & accoutre ments shall receive the same allowance therefor as is given by Congress to the drafts from the militia for filling up the Continental Regiments.” PCC, item 78, 2:445-46. Most of the points raised by Smith were dealt with in the committee report. For further information about the background and work of the commissioners, see Committee of Congress to Edward Hand, October 24, 1777, note 1; and Laurens to George Clymer, March 27, 1778, note. 2 See Laurens to George Morgan, this date. 3 See JCC, 10:325. Henry Laurens to Denis Nicolas Cottineau Sir, 1 9th April 1778 Inclosed with this you will receive two Letters from His Excellency General Washington which came yesterday to my hands. 2
