398 April 9, 1778 The Honble. Mr. Lewis will address you on behalf of Congress in order to treat with you for the purchase of divers articles of your Cargo. I have requested that Gentleman to attempt the purchase of a few trifles on my private account if to be done without prejudice to the public—the particulars set forth in a paper under this Cover. 3 I shall make payment in a Bill of Exchange on London or Nantz or in Gold which will have due consideration with you in ascertaining the prices. If I can be useful to you in this Country or South Carolina proper intimations will find me very much Sir Your most humble Servt. LB (ScHi). Addressed: “Captn. Cottineau, New Bern, by Mr. Lewis.” 'Denis Nicolas Cottineau de Kerloguin (d. 1808), commander of the French privateer Pallas, subsequently received an American naval commission from Ben jamin Franklin in 1779 and served under the command of John Paul Jones. Lasseray, Les Francois sous les treize etoiles, 1:167-68. Cottineau had arrived at Cape Lookout in February with a varied cargo of goods—including clothing, coffee, linen, medicine, silk, spices, and wine—which he promptly offered for sale to Washington. He also sent word of his cargo to Congress, which agreed to pur chase such parts of it "as are necessary for the Army” and dispatched Francis Lewis, a member of the Marine Committee, to North Carolina to complete this transaction. See JCC, 10:298, 333; N.C. State Records, 13:85, 93, 111, 119-20, 126; and Laurens to Washington, April 14, 1778. See also Cottineau’s letter to Wash ington and the invoice of his cargo, both dated February 26, 1778, in the Wash ington Papers, DLC. “The only extant letter Washington wrote to Cottineau around this time is dated April 4. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:215-16. 3 A list of the "few trifles” that were the subject of this enclosure was also copied into Laurens’ private letterbook with this letter. Henry Laurens to the Chevalier de La Neuville Sir 9th April 1778 Having so good an opportunity as this by the Honble. Mr. Lewis I cannot forbear to pay my respects to you although I have not the pleasure of saying all that I wish & what I know would be agreeable to you. The Camp Committee are not yet returned nor have they Reported the intended arrangement of Officers, consequently everything in that branch remains just in the State they were in when you left York Town. 1 Mr. Lewis can further inform you to whom I beg leave to refer & I have only to add assurances of being, With great respect & regard &ca. LB (ScHi). Addressed: “Monsr. Lanuville, New Bern.” 1 See Laurens to Chevalier de La Neuville, January 27, 1778.
