April 9, 1778 399 Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear Son 9th April 1778. My last I beleive was by Jones since which I know I have received a Letter from you but ’tis not at hand, yes here ’tis of the 6th. 1 We are very nearly of one opinion on our late Presidents resigna tion. 2 I want the papers. You will receive by Ross the bearer of this all your Blue Cloth & Buttons per Accot. inclosed, if superfluous you have a right to return them. I am greatly distressed by circumstances now in agitation respecting your friend, I think I once said “I hope he will never afford him or them his own consent to hurt him.” 3 My Dear Son Adieu. LB (ScHi). 1 The letter in question seems to be the one dated April 5 in Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, pp. 153-54. 2 See ibid, for John’s comments on the recent resignation of South Carolina president John Rutledge. 3 Laurens had made a remark to this effect about Washington in his January 8, 1778, letter to John. Henry Laurens to George Morgan Dear Sir, 9th April 1778 The day before yesterday I had the honor of presenting to Congress your favour of the 7th Inst, which was referred to a Select Committee & remains unreported, 1 consequently I have received no Commands on that subject, nevertheless I cannot suffer Mr. McLeland to return without intimating that the Enquiry into your conduct by the Com missioners at Fort Pitt is approved of by Congress, that the House have ordered it to be entered upon the Journal 8c to be published to the World, a circumstance which with the utmost pleasure I communicate by the earliest opportunity. 2 Mr. McLeland is charged with the four Thousand Dollars applied for by General Hand for building Armed Boats, for which Sum you are to be accountable. 3 I am with great regard. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Colonel George Morgan Esquire, Fort Pitt.” 1 In reality Morgan’s letter was dated March 31 and read in Congress on April 7. JCC, 10:313. This letter dealt with Indian affairs in western Pennsylvania— particularly the recent escape from Fort Pitt of former British deputy Indian superintendent Alexander McKee—and was referred to the same committee that
