April 12, 1778 403 proposed for your future service is agreeable. In the mean time we are Sir, Your humble Servants. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 'This day the Marine Committee also sent a brief note to Governor Henry, acknowledging their agreement “that Mr. Stodder should be employed by your State in building small Vessels upon condition that he shall resume the building of the Frigates or build any other vessels for the Continent when we judge proper." PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book, fol. 141; and Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 1:228. Delegates’ Pledge of Order April 12. 1778. 1 We the subscribers members of Congress pledge our honor to each other that we will meet punctually at the hour of adjournment, that on any subject in debate (except in Committee of the whole house) we will not speak more than (fifteen) Ten 2 minutes, seldom more than once, never more than twice, and that we will unite in supporting Francis Lightfoot Lee, Va. (Samuel Chase, Md.) 4 Wm. Duer, N Yk. Fra. Dana Edward Langworthy order & preserving decency and politeness in debate. 3 James Lovell J. Banister Wm. Hy. Drayton, Nay 1 Jas. Smith William Ellery James Forbes, Md. Sami Huntington John Henry, Md. Nath. Scudder Cornls. Harnett E Gerry MS (DLC). In the hand of Charles Thomson and signed by all the delegates whose names are appended. Endorsed by Thomson: “Engagement of the members to meet punctually at the hour of adjournment, to support Order & preserve decency & politeness”; and by an unidentified hand: “Signed in the handwriting of the Members April 12th 1778.” 'According to the journals Congress did not convene on Sunday, April 12, 1778. 2 Francis Dana deleted “fifteen” and wrote “Ten” above the line. 3 The delegates’ decision to enter into this agreement was undoubtedly prompted by a wish to avoid a recurrence of the sort of obstructionist behavior in which Thomas Burke was currently engaged. See Burke’s Proposed Statement to Congress, April 13, 1778. Years later William Ellery discussed Congress’ decision to limit the duration of speeches by delegates in a letter he wrote to Benjamin Huntington. "I recollect that while I was a member of Congress it was more the practice to speechify in that assembly, than I believe in any other on the Continent; but the most frequent and the most lengthy were not the most graceful or the most pertinent speakers. Long speeches were found to be so disadvantageous, that, when Congress sat at York Town, the principal speakers agreed not to speak longer than 15 minutes. A man must have a great deal to say, or be very verbose indeed who cannot deliver his sentiments on almost any subject in that time. If an oration
