406 April 13, 1778 if I can, the decision of important matters, when members cannot duly attend to them, that Conviction of Error always did, and always shall precede Concession with me. That (abstracted from the breach of order under Consideration which I meant not to Justify, but excuse) my general political opin ions were that undue, or unreasonable exercise of any power, tho’ lawful power, is Tyrannical, and that no freeman is bound to submit to it. That every freeman must use his own Judgment on it before he determines to disobey, for until he does disobey there can be no sub ject for any other Judgment and it remains for his Country to decide whether he is mistaken or not, and if he is, he incurs the penalties provided by Law. That it is Criminal in members of Congress to withold their attendance when the public safety required it, but that they are to be Judged and punished by the Laws of the States they represent, and no other power. These Sentiments however expressed, I avow, and as to the Lan guage, I know no obligation I am under to use a Courtly Stile. My expressions are usually what first occur and in this Instance were not intended to offend. I shall only add that I mean not by any thing I have here said to submit myself to any Jurisdiction, but that of the state I represent, such submission being in my Idea injurious to the majesty thereof, nor do I mean to forego any of my own rights as a Citizen entitled to the benefit of the Laws, and Constitution of the free State of North Carolina. Thos. Burke The Above writing I compared with Mr. Burkes Defence & it contains the express words spoken or read by him in Congress. Witness my hand. Cornl Harnett MS (NcU). Written and signed by Thomas Burke, with attestation and signature by Cornelius Harnett. Endorsed by Harnett: “Mr. Burkes Defense April 13th, 1778.” 1 This manuscript consists of the justifications Burke was prepared to offer Cong ress this day for his action in withdrawing from Congress without permission, on the evening of April 10, during debate on a reply to Washington’s April 4 letter to President Laurens that he regarded as excessively critical of the commander in chief. Burke’s unauthorized withdrawal, which temporarily deprived Congress of a quorum, and his peremptory refusal to obey a request that he return immediately to Congress affronted many delegates and led them to consider various disciplinary measures. In the end, however, Burke’s unflagging insistence that he was amenable only to the jurisdiction of North Carolina led Congress to confine itself to passing a resolve on April 25 that sharply criticized Burke’s behavior but referred further action on it to the North Carolina Assembly, which in August 1778 pronounced itself satisfied with Burke’s conduct and his defense of the state’s authority over its delegates. For further information about this controversy, see JCC, 10:334, 336-37, 339, 386-91; N. C. State Records, 12: 769, 792, 825, 843-45; Henry Laurens to Richard Caswell, April 27; and Burke to Richard Caswell and to the North Carolina Assembly, April 29, 1778. Finally, it is necessary to point out that Burke
