April 13, 1778 407 had already submitted a written defense of his conduct to Congress on April II, which has not been found, and that Congress refused to read the present document. See ]CC, 10:339, 386; and Burke to the North Carolina Assembly, April 29, 1778. See also Henry Laurens to Washington, April 8, 1778, for a discussion of Congress’ response to Washington’s April 4 letter. “William Duer was a member of the committee that drafted the reply to Wash ington’s April 4 letter Burke found so objectionable. ]CC, 10:314. ’Edward Langworthy, who had withdrawn from Congress with Burke, but who returned to Congress on the evening of April 10 as soon as he was requested, a fact Burke neglected to mention in this document. ]CC, 10:334. James Lovell to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir 13th Apr. 1778 Your favor of the 2d gave me vast satisfaction as it goes near to insure to me the restoration of your Health & Limbs. I think you had best determine to lay aside all thought of coming to this Place. 1 The Employment you were invited to would be inevitable Destruction after the Shock you have had. You will ever hereafter require Exercise and good Accommodations where your own or your Physician’s Will could decide in points of Regimen. Here you can command no course of Diet. I am not Galen enough to say whether the Lime water which tears your Countryman’s Bowels out would not serve you. It has driven several Delegates home to their native springs. I have not been affected with it disagreably in that respect which I hinted as to Mr. Wolcot & Mr. Huntington: and I do not think I ought to charge the Cramp in my Breast to any thing but Quilldriving perpetually. Mr Wadsworth will conduct the Commissary’s Department, 2 and I think your Constitution requires that you should assist him. I will not enlarge on that point as you discover a Disposition in your letter both well suited to your present State of Health and your Character as a true Patriot. If the Army is not immediately filled up to the full compliment called for, what we have yet felt is a trifle to what we may expect. I say the same in Regard to Congress. The Sickness or Will of one man out of 7 now here destroys its Existence. I will tell you hereafter why this ought not to be if you stand in need of being told. My respectful & affectionate Compliments to your Father’s & yr. own family. JL RC (CtHi). 1 Lovell had been urging Trumbull to assume his seat on the new Board of War. See Lovell to Trumbull, January 27, 1778. ’For further information on Jeremiah Wadsworth’s acceptance of the office of commissary general, see Abraham Clark to Wadsworth, March 29, 1778.
