408 April 13, 1778 Robert Morris to Henry Laurens Sir Manheim April 13th. 1778 I embrace the opportunity of the Honble Governeur Morris Esqr. to inform Congress that Colo. Conner & myself entered into an exam ination of young Mr Swanwick on the Morning after the date of the former letter I had the Honour to write you Concerning him. 1 He produced to us the sundry letters he had received from his Father 8c Copies of those written to him since the loss of Philadelphia, but so far from treating of Political subjects, they appear to have laid it down as a fixed point between them, not to meddle with any thing of the kind, least it might produce an interruption to their Cor- respondance, which the Father in one of his first letters says, he is desirous of continuing for the Sole purpose of knowing what passes with respect to his own Family & affairs and that he desires no other kind of information from the Son, in short the letters he produced & the propriety of his behaviour on hearing the charge against him Convinced both Colo Conner & myself of his perfect innocence, it has made me very happy to find him so, because if he had been guilty, the greatest ingratitude 8c perfidy wou’d have been involved in the Crime. Colo. Conner will communicate his Sentiments to the Board of War 8c I have the Honor to Remain Your Excys Obed hble servt. Robt Morris RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). ’See Morris to Laurens, April 7, 1778. Lt. Col. Morgan Connor’s April 11 letter to Laurens reporting the results of his investigation of John Swanwick, "In Obedience to orders from the . . . Board of War,” is in PCC, item 78, 5:151. Swan wick himself had offered an impassioned rebuttal of the charge that he had engaged in a treasonous correspondence with his father in an April 8 letter to Laurens that was read in Congress on the 15th. See PCC, item 78, 20:203-4. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, York Town, 14th April 1778 In obedience to the directions of Congress, I am to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 4th instant. 1 Congress with great concern perceive that your sensibility is wounded by their resolutions. Placing the firmest confidence in your prudence, abilities and integrity, they wish to preserve that harmony with you, which is essential to the general Weal. You may rest as sured that far from any intention to give you pain, their resolutions have no other motives or end but the public good. They therefore hope that you will not in future be distrest by apprehensions as in jurious to their honor as they are to your own feelings.
