April 14, 1778 409 However different the views of Congress may seem to you now from what you supposed them to be when you entered into your late en gagements with general Howe, Congress certainly had nothing in view, but a proper respect to the dignity, safety & independence of these States. The duplicity of general Howe and authentic information that the gentlemen appointed by you to negotiate the cartel held opinions repugnant to the sense of Congress, constrained them in a matter of such high moment, as forming a general cartel, to express their senti ments in an explicit manner; lest they might have only to lament, when it was out of their power to remedy a misapprehension on points deeply affecting in their judgment, the safety & honor of these States. Congress expected that you would consider their resolutions of the 30th Ult. in the light of private instructions calculated to shew their sense with respect to the general outlines of the proposed cartel: a practice usual with the supreme power of every state in similar cases. 2 You observe that a strict adherence to all the resolutions of Con gress must of necessity destroy all idea of a cartel, but as a distinction can easily be made betwixt such of the resolutions of Congress as flow from general principles of policy, and those which arise from circum stances which have rendered a variation from time to time necessary, it is conceived that an attention to this discrimination will rid you of those embarassments, which you may, at first view, think yourself entangled with. The resolution of Congress of the 19th December respecting the mode of settlement for supplies to the Enemy’s prisoners seems not to have been sufficiently attended to. 3 It is left at the option of the enemy to pay either in coin dollar for dollar or in provisions Sec equal in quantity and kind to what is furnished. Whatever objections may be made against the first mode, there surely cannot be a more just and equal ratio than the latter. Genl. Burgoyne lately made the same objections on this point, which occured to you, but on being re minded of the alternative offered by the resolution, he acquiesced, and the victuallying ships are now actually delivering provisions in payment for what they received. The commissaries of prisoners on each side may pass receipts for the rations received expressing the quantum of each article received for the subsistence of the prisoners in the power of the contracting parties and the balance may be paid in provisions or in coin, at the option of either party. The mode sug gested by you is liable to this strong objection, that it would lay us under the necessity of furnishing the enemy’s prisoners with us as well as ours with them with provisions; which certainly would be a capital advantage to them, if we consider the distance whence they must derive their supplies. 4
