April 15, 1778 415 quietudes. I am sure that mine has done so in Numberless Instances. Let us then commit all our Concerns to the Disposal of our Maker who I beleive will order that concerning us, which shall be for our greatest advantage. This is my Sixth Letter, my last was by Col Dyer which you will receive in a Day or Two. I have Wrote Dr. Smith and Mr. Adams each a Letter, which I do not know whether either of them have reed. 6 I need not tell you how acceptable your Letters will be to me. Those by Brown will come safe. My tenderest Love for my Children and Family. My Ardent Wishes for your Happiness. 7 Oliver Wolcott RC (CtHi). 1 John Pierce of Litchfield, Conn., who was appointed assistant paymaster general of the Continental Army in February 1776 and was promoted to deputy paymaster general in June 1779. Heitman, Historical Register, p. 328. 3 For Jonathan Trumbull, Jr’s "pretty offensive Letters” complaining about how he was addressed by Congress, see Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., March 12, 1778, note 1. 3 "The troubler of Israel." 1 Chron. 2:7 and Joshua, chapter 7. 1 See Wolcott to Andrew Adams, April 25, 1778, note 3. 3 Wolcott’s letter to Tapping Reeve has not been found. 6 Wolcott’s letters to Dr. Reuben Smith and Andrew Adams have not been found. ’For the continuation of this letter, see Wolcott to Laura Wolcott, April 19, 1778. John Banister to St. George Tucker My dear Sir, 1 York Pensylvania 15th April 1778 ’Tis true the Phaeton to whom you allude in yours of the 29th part, has like the first of that Name fallen never to rise again, but was not so effectually cooled by falling into an Element of an opposite kind. 2 The Mild Planet, whose Course the modern adventurer of that Name had wished to have guided, receded from him with so gentle a Radi ance that the Impression remains, perhaps too strongly to be oblit erated. Cruel Necessity if it should be so! since no other Remedy is prob able. But you who are much versed in the military and can maneuvre equal to Stueben himself, can you not as heretofore, by marching and counter marching find out the Causes of Movements in Friend as well as Foe? There are more things in Heaven and earth than even Phylosophy will teach. But where a Planet looks with amicable benignity on a Saint, may he not invoke her to explain the Causes of certain Influences, why attraction ceases in some and goes on in other Instances? and then as a Phylosopher why the finest feelings and some of the tenderest Emo tions of the Soul do not always awaken the same in others, by Sym-
