416 April 15, 1778 pathetic Power. Perhaps inimical Interpositions have been thrown in the way to spoil the Concord. Perhaps poisoned falsehood propagated Good Name in Man or Woman, dear my Friend, is the immediate Jewel of their Souls &c &c. This planetary object was great indeed! weighing down in substan tial good even an Empire. Could not an obscure letter be erected upon a Consultation of the Stars, and the Result of certain Maneu- vres? Such as, How the Responses of the Oracle might be; take Care 'tho of too much ambiguity. If you can go deeper into the obscure than this, being understood, magnus eris mihi Apollo; Apollo, you know, did deal in obscurity when he patronized Physic. To there? I come off decently with my Deity, I thought otherwise when I had got him obscured, do allow him to be fairly brought off now 8c I promise never to risque him again in so dangerous a Post. But no matter so I am hid from vulgar Eyes in these confidential Communi cations. How delightful a change in Systems and prospects of alliances, in four or five daies! On it I congratulate my Friend; but in the System of politics how comes it that another Power is introduced on the Stage? Such Jarring interests cannot consist together. It is therefore time for the Power first engaged in the Campaign to come to an ex planation upon so delicate a Subject, lest the Balance of Power should not be rightly adjusted, in settling definitive Treaties. France & Spain seem to be at a Stand as to an interfereance with America’s Quarrel for her just Rights, indeed I never expected any assistance from them but What was immediately conducive to their Interest. Nor is it to be expected from any Nation, but if these Powers are equal with the advantages America may throw into the Scale, to G. Britain’s navy, they would consult that darling Passion of Men 8c Nations immed iately to begin hostilities. An argument was very well concluded upon the advantage attending such an accession of Force to America, by General Lee. A Gentleman in Company a few Minutes ago insisted that Hostilities carried on by France against G. Britain would not aid America. The Gen. replied that the Argument required no other Refutation than to suppose we stood a better chance against that Nation with 20 thousand than four thousand Men. However at all Events the Americans are doomed to stand another Campaign unaided by any Force but that which should be derived from their own heroism 8c virtue. Wonder not at the use of the Words Heroism & Virtue, without them no Nation ever persevered in the defence of its Liberties. Did we certainly possess these republican virtues the Strength of the Continent might be called out, to the instant destruction of the Invaders of our Country. Ill judging ambition & the Lust of Gain has induced our Fellow
