April 16, 1778 421 by the enemies ships of war that it is impossible for us to conduct agreable to our earnest wishes of maintaining the best credit in our commercial concerns abroad. It is probable that a commercial board, not members of Congress, will very soon be established so that the whole time of the conductors may be spent in exertions for the public benefit in that branch of continental business. 2 The want of intelligence from our Commissioners at Paris makes it improper for us to draw largely on them at present; therefore you must content yourself with the ceconomical bounds of the power which is given to you by the within resolve of Congress of this day. 3 Be assured that all possible attempts will be made for your relief by remittances of our produce. I find it impossible to convey to you any thing of a plan of oppera- tions for this campaign. The enemy having the sea open to them must have the Lead in military matters; we must oppose or follow them just as they think fit to attempt an advance or to retire. It is hardly probable they will again attack New England without large rein forcements. Our Correspondent at the Hague is very regular, but his intel ligence is never in season to form the ground of any of our proceed ings. We have packets from him regularly to the letter Y Deer. 16th 4 though our Commissioners have not been able to convey one safely since May last. Tis strange that they cannot succeed thro you. But, indeed you appear also to know but little of them. Mr. Deane being wanted here, Mr. John Adams sailed the 17th of February to take his place at the Court of Versailles. It is probable you will hear of his arrival before this reaches you. It seems needless to desire you to give us early notice of that and other foreign intel ligence. Your usual punctuality needed not the spur of the informa tion which I have given you of our present great ignorance of the situation & transactions of the Gentlemen at Paris. I am with much regard, sir, your Friend and humble Servant, James Lovell, for the Comme for for. affrs. RC (PHi). Written and signed by James Lovell. 1 Extracts from Bingham’s letters of December 28, 1777, January 26, February 8 and February 21, 1778, were printed in the Pennsylvania Packet or the General Advertiser (Lancaster), April 1 and 8, 1778. Bingham’s January 14, letter has not been found, but his February 8 letter is in PCC, item 90, fols. 29-32, and his January 26 and February 21 letters are in the Continental Congress Miscellany, DLC. 2 This reorganization plan was not executed. See Committee of Commerce to Robert Morris, February 21, 1778, note 6. 3 Congress authorized Bingham to draw on the commissioners at Paris for “100,000 livres tournois." See JCC, 10:356. 4 For Charles W. F. Dumas’ correspondence with the committee, see Committee for Foreign Affairs to Dumas, May 14, 1778, note.
