April 17, 1778 427 Then 8c not before, “It was moved to Resolve” See & Mr Duer with drew the proposed amendment. 2 Tuesday the 21st the above Entry on the Journal being called for by a Member 8c Read— The President again intimated to the House the imperfection of the Entry— “Gentlemen, I must again observe to you this Entry on the Journal will not convey to the Reader Ideas competent to the fact—the first Paragraph had been read for debate, an amendment had been offered, read 8c a question upon it half put.” The Secretary persists in keeping the Journal thus unfairly misrepresenting the proceedings of the House. After the Yeas 8c Nays—Tuesday 21st April. Copy Journal Motion was made to strike out “an establishment” 8c insert, “It is expedient a Provision.” Resolved in the affirmative. 3 Then the Resolve on Friday 17th well Read as follows. First It is expedient a Provision, [instead of—“that an establish ment”] 4 of half Pay be made for the Military officers commissioned by Congress who now are or hereafter may be in the service of these States 8c shall continue therein during the War 8c who shall not be annexed to any Corps of established Troops or hold any office of Profit under the United States or any of them 8c that such [establish ment] Provision take place after the conclusion of the present War.” This Motion, which in itself had undergone a Question upon Order being thus taken under Consideration 8c in part amended, a Motion was made for dividing the Question which caused some de bate but the manner in which the division was desired declared in writing as follows. “The House was Moved that the Question be divided 8c that the sense of the House be taken, whether any provision shall be made for Officers 8cc.” The President rose 8c said his Duty Constrained him to speak to the House—“that this Motion contained no division of the Question in debate but was a complete new motion which he could not put without express Command.” Mr. Huntington 8c other members objected in like manner—debates 8c some disorder ensued—the President admonished the House against disorder 8c intemperate reflections. A majority of probably two to one insisted upon having the Ques tion put as it had been reduced to writing. The President replied he could not apply the words so reduced to writing to any part of the motion 8c give it the appearance of a division, except by taking up
