428 April 17, 1778 some & suppressing or skipping over other words in the Motion. The Member who had reduced the said division or new motion to writing, expressed great surprize & added it is the easiest thing in the World. The President requested his assistance, 8c delivered the Motion to that Member Mr. Chase who read it as it is reduced to writing 8c averred it to be a division of the Question. The President resumed the Papers 8c again requested the Order of the House. Some of those Members who had complained of the division 8c were against admitting the motion to be a division, exclaimed they were borne down 8c all said, any how, any how, we see the Gentlemen will have it in their own way—put the Question. The President then read the Motion again 8c put the Question. “You Gentlemen who agree that a Provision shall be made for the [Military] Officers Commissioned by Congress 8cc. [gpgjr* The words of half pay suppressed 8c the word Military introduced, by order] when you are called upon will signify it by saying Aye—Contra, when called upon will say No. The Yeas 8c Nays were called 8c appear on the Journal. 5 Instantly after calling the Members, Mr. Chase presented the fol lowing motion read by himself 8c by the President. “The Question moved 8c put that such Provision for the Officers be one half of their present Pay.” But the House adjourned without debate or putting the Question.® It is asserted by Gentlemen that Officers 8c some of high Rank in the Army have declared (“I have heard one 8c of high Rank too”) that they were not for Peace. They desired War for a support, as they had no fortunes to live upon. Query. Is it necessary to make further Provision for Men who declare that what they already enjoy is a desirable subsistence, or for Men who at the expence of the Blood 8c Treasure of their Country wish to enjoy their present subsistence? Query. Is there no danger that Men of this disposition will, when once an half Pay establishment is fixed do everything, 8c submit to any terms for compassing Peace even submitting to accept another half Pay for this purpose from the Enemy? Thus Gentlemen in their reasonings upon different subjects in which the Officers of this Army are introduced, destroy their own arguments used in support of a Peace establishment. It is unjust— the Motives 8c considerations not applicable the demand unseasonable 8c a compliance dangerous. the Remedy proposed grievous to the People 8c inadequate to T
