April 18, 1778 435 Rights 8c Liberties of our Country, this I might upon the best founda tion assure you is the sense of all your fellow Citizens but at present I mean only to signify, 8c to request you will be pleased to accept, the sentiments of Sir yours 8cca LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: "Brigadier General Stark, Bennington.” Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, York Town 18th April 1778. I beg leave to refer Your Excellency to my Letter of yesterday by McKlosky. This will cover Copy of a Petition by several Officers Civil 8c Mili tary of New Jersey to His Excellency the Governor of that State. Also Copy of a Representation by the Legislative Council 8c General As sembly of the same State to Congress; together with an Act of Con gress of the 17th Inst. Resolved upon the Report of a Committee to whose consideration the papers abovementioned had been referred. 1 I have the honor to be, With the highest Esteem 8c Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient 8c most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. P.S. Your Excellency will also find inclosed an Act of Congress of this day for forming a Plan for the general operations of the Cam paign. RC (DLC). 1 For further information on this issue, see Gouverneur Morris to Robert Morris, April 16, 1778, note 2. James Lovell to Samuel Adams My dear sir Apr. 18th. 1778. Your favors of Feb. 29 8c Mar 31st came to hand this afternoon. 1 Col. Campbel is actually gone into Philadelphia, and I suppose my old fellow sufferer is before this time among his friends. 2 There has been a variety of managemts. in the affair that may tend to your amusement at some future leisure moment. Howe most evidently had rather have to do with any body rather than Congress; there being this difference that he cannot induce us to believe him any thing better than a deceitful rogue, while some others confide altogether in his honor and often put themselves into situations to have their “feelings hurt” by our decisive Resolves which are therefore wished
