436 April 18, 1778 to "sleep.” 3 I may venture to tell you, at so great a distance as Boston is from this place, that Genl. Heath has acquitted himself greatly to his own honor as an executive officer upon the Resolves of Congress. Surely there is no odious comparison in what I assert. Since the date of your last, you must have seen my letter to Mr. Appleton respecting Mr. Amory 4 and I think you must have judged the Spirit of it not to be against the proceedings of the Genl. Assem bly. We are now come to the Season when certain birds of passage return who seldom appear in our flock during winter. I will not enlarge upon the advantages of the regulation of this year for our vote in Congress. Esqr. C 5 the patron of yeas & nays will give you after opportunity of examining that matter. 4 & 4 and 1 divided lost a question against the voice of D & myself, Brother G being very ill 6 —a question of the highest importance, so that you may expect soon an half pay System upon which the existence of the army this campaign is said, “religiously” at one time, &: “devoutly” at another to depend. 7 It is said to be (Economy, Justice & Necessity. The last really is not altogether fictitious, the second does not exist, and the first is quite problematical. Distinctions ought however to be made between an half pay establishment and a military establishment, the latter being a curse, the former a nuisance. Can less than 9 states appropriate money in the manner hinted above? Can it be called a contingent expence of this war? I am Clearly of opinion, not. I wish all the old Geese were here, as Mr Childs called our worthy select men on a certain time. Genl. Gates is to go immediately to the north river having the command of the posts there & the superintendance of the whole northern department. I tell you he is to assist at a council of War in his way, to determine upon the plan of operations for the campaign. 8 Genl. W tells us Massachusetts is most allarmingly deficient in her quota; pray exert yourselves. Our cause is greatly at hazard. I have mentioned to Doer. Cooper all the scraps of foreign news which have lately reached. 9 I hope Lot Gray (Hall) has paid you cash. My poor wife needs no addition to her present trouble. The public letter and instructions came to hand with your favors, 10 and will be duely respected. Apr. 19th. Sunday M[ornin]g. Mr. Geary is something recovered this morning; he will take a ride this delightful day, and he must certainly be relieved from Congress shortly; but I warn you of great difficulties as to Lodging, and I advise you to be composed upon the thought of not being accommodated here. Mrs. C will move to Philada. or to some other part. I am sorry to find the regulating law
