April 19, 1778 445 conselective events, by what “various ways & means” may officers improve their fortunes, where will be those lucrative employments which it is pretended they now envy—but officers may retire when they please—so may senators & what then? A whole quire of Paper would be too narrow to range in, upon this topic. It is fortunate for you Sir that General Gates, an English News paper 8c two or three members of Congress steped in & knocked out of my head more than would have filled another sheet. If I can beg that News paper which contains some good things it shall accom pany the other papers. Let me conclude this head by observing the Cons move to postpone the consideration of the plan until the several States shall be fully informed 8c consulted. 4 Here a strenuous advocate let out the Cat—no I am afraid the people will not consent. What! dare we bind the people in any Case without or against their Consent, tis very near akin to burding them in all Cases. I must confess the affair for an affair of such magnitude has been poorly conducted by the managers. A Report of the whole, called for in a certain Assembly being the order of the day—read once for information the first paragraph read for debate an amendment offered 8c received a question on the amendment half put—a new proposition was started irrelative to the paragraph 8c amendment, contrary to general consent 8c having a tendency to set aside both—Question is it in order to receive 8c put to Vote the proposition? A question was moved upon the order; Question is the latter motion or the first subject for a previous Question? 5 From what has been said Your Excellency will collect enough to determine on the article of confusion. That Mass of paper lying there which I lug every day to 8c fro would give a more explicit answer to this point than, as I think, becomes me. My own Spirits such as they are keep in pretty equal tone. Men may bear pain with great equa nimity in general, yet be impelled by sudden twitches to bawl out 8c sigh for a moment. Things in public life were in extreme disorder when I had last the honour of writing to your Excellency 8c besides I beleive other things in private were as crooked. I fancy I was a Bed with Gout. Some departments, which as I dont mean to be invidious I will not part- ticularize, are shifted into more promising hands 8c I intertain hopes, if we have an Army, it will be better supplied than it has been with entertainment for Men 8c Horse but take a general view 8c the prospect is still extremely mortifying. However, we have lately received acquisition of some abilities though not half enough 8c tis pretended the Spirit of reformation is at our threshold. My Colleague Drayton has given earnest of his determination to set his face against fraud in every shape 8c to call upon those men who detain unaccounted Mil-
