446 April 19, 1778 lions. 6 Thank God we have other virtuous sensible Men to aid him. I believe things were at the time allude [d] to at the worst—nothing but complete ruin could have proved the contrary. General Burgoyne had reached Rhode Island & probably embarked about the 5th Inst. His arrival in England will produce an excellent fund for polemics. Congress have directed General Washington to convene a Council of Major Generals including the two Gentlemen of the Board of War & the General Officer of the Corps of Engineers in order “to form such a plan for the general operations of the Campaign as the Com mander in Chief shall deem consistent with the general welfare of these States.” General Gates from the Council will proceed to Fish Kill & take upon him the Command of all the Northern department. I learned yesterday that the works upon North River were going forward under great exertions of Industry. Officers assist in manual labour. Apprehensions of losing the important passes & their apend- ages on that River through a strange delay &: perplexity of orders wearing the appearance of infatuation have often exercised my patience. The knowing ones here will bet that terms of accomodation will be a prelude to the Campaign, I dont pretend to be related to that family, but I expressed the sentiment upon Reading the Speech of the 20th November. 7 No public good can be derived from Spreading such opinions, a plausible pretence to treat in earnest will bring the Union into a critical situation &: will demand all the Wisdom of the thirteen States to counteract a finesse. But for the visit above mentioned I should have dispatched the bearer at 9 oClock this Morning, my Chain was broke, I went to Church &: have finished in the Evening—&: ought to be charged one day’s expence of the Messenger. I sincerely wish your Excellency health & Safety being with the highest Esteem & Respect &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 See William Henry Drayton, The Speech of the Hon. William Henry Drayton Esquire, Chief fustice of South Carolina. Delivered on the Twentieth January, 177S (Charleston: David Bruce, 1778). Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 15785. 2 An allusion to Gen. John Burgoyne and his grandiloquent proclamation of June 20, 1777, which was issued from his “Camp at the River Bouquett” and long annoyed Laurens. See Laurens to John Lewis Gervais, August 17, 1777, note 5. No doubt Laurens sent Livingston copies of the correspondence relating to Con gress decision to permit Burgoyne and a number of other British officers to return to England. See Laurens to Richard Wilford, March 1, and to Burgoyne, March 6, 1778. 3 Congress did not resume consideration of the issue of half pay until Tuesday April 21. J.CC, 10:372-74. ‘See JCC, 10:358-60. "See JCC, 10:362-63; and Laurens’ Notes on Half Pay, April 17-21, 1778.
