April 20, 1778 447 • After taking his seat in Congress on March 30, William Henry Drayton had wasted little time in getting down to business. On Saturday April 4 he offered a motion—on which Congress voted to postpone consideration—"that on Monday next Congress be resolved into a committee of the whole to consider the situation of affairs of the United States.” JCC, 10:306. Although the journals fail to identify the author of this motion, there is a text of it in Drayton’s hand in the Laurens Papers, ScHi. It is not known what specific purpose Drayton had in view when he proposed his motion. The Laurens Papers also contain a March 29 letter from Drayton to Laurens, written at “Suttons Tavern Sunday Noon,” in which Drayton asked Laurens to arrange accommodations for him “as I am informed lodging is very difficult to be procured at York.” 7 An apparent reference to George Ill’s November 18, 1777, speech to parliament, in which the king expressed hope that the conflict with America would soon be settled. See Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Adams, February 7, 1778, note 3. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott [April] 19t [1778] Brown has been detained longer than I expected. I have now the Pleasure to acquaint you that I am entirely well. I beleive my Dis order was owing to the use of the Waters here which are bad—and which I find has produced the same ill effects in all upon the first using of them. I shall drink this Water but Seldom. Genl. Gates is appointed to Command on Hudsons River and the Northern Department which are now united. So that I suppose Mr. Peirce’s Expectations will not be gratified. So that the matter which you mentioned in Regard to Oliver is about at an end. Mr. Wads worth of Hartford is appointed Commissry Genl. 1 I have ordered 460 dollars to be left with you to be sent to Mr. Edwards of Stockbridge for his Services as Commissioner of Indian Affairs. 2 As I have got this Allowance for him, I have delivered an account of a like Nature for myself to the Officers of the Treasury and hope it will be admitted, if so Shall inform you of it. RC (CtHi). A continuation of Wolcott to Wolcott, April 14, 1778. 1 See JCC, 10:327-28. “This payment to Timothy Edwards, who like Wolcott served as a commissioner for Indian affairs in the northern department, had been authorized by Congress on March 23. JCC, 10:264, 279. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dear Papa, York 20th April 1778 I begin to be settled. I now lodge at one Dowdell’s in the same house with Mr. Henry. Our lodgings, all things considered, are well
