April 20, 1778 453 she by accident blew up, and every Soul on board perished. The proposed Cartel is broke off. Our Commissioners had full Powers, & their Act would have bound the public faith, Howes Commissioners had not full Powers, & could only engage his private Faith, and that too only during his Command. The Exchange on Parole will con tinue. No other Part of my last 2 was to have been private, but Genl. Lee’s Name. I am inclined to think Baltimore fort remains in the same defenceless State as I mentioned to the assembly a year ago. There is a great Mistake in my Letter about the Quantity of Con tinental Arms. I meant to say Congress had fifteen thousand Arms, &: above two hundred field pieces. I suppose I folded the Letter before it was dry, & that Circumstance added to the Naughts. I will seize the first favourable Opportunity to apply to Congress for some Mony, but our Demands to pay & buy provisions are very pressing. My Compliments to the Council, Your Affectionate and Obedient Servant, Sami Chase RC (Md A A). 1 See Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Thomas Johnson, April 21, 1778, note 1. 2 Chase’s last letter to Johnson has not been found, but since a portion of this paragraph is addressed to the subject of “the Quantity of Continental Arms available to Maryland, it is obvious that Chase is responding to the Maryland Council’s April 7 letter requesting the delegates “to apply to Congress for Arms and Field Pieces and Accoutrements,” pursuant to an April 4 resolution of the Maryland Assembly. See Md. Archives, 21:15. Samuel Chase to George Washington Dear Sir, York Town April 20 1778 I wish some Mode would be adopted to pursue the Release of our Subjects, who are taken by the Enemy, not in Arms. The Situation is truely distressing. Humanity and Policy combine to urge Us to take some speedy and effectual Measures to obtain their Discharge but one of two Modes occurs to Me, either to declare them not ob jects of Capture, or to seise the Friends of Great-Britain, and detain them to redeem ours with the Enemy. The Case of Mr. Gunning Bedford is attended with some particu lar Circumstances. He was taken by a Party of our Enemy abt 13th of February, and has been confined in the New Jail ever since, and even threatened with Punishment as a Robber for stopping some People carrying provisions into the City. I am informed General Howe will exchange him for one Cooke, in Northumberland County. 1 I beg Leave to Solicit your favor for Mr. Bedford, he formerly
