454 April 20, 1778 held the Commission of Muster Master General, and by his Conduct can expect no favor from the Enemy. I beg your acceptance of my best Wishes for your Health & Happi ness and You may be assured that I am, Your Affectionate and Obedient Servant, Sami. Chase. RC (DLC). 1 For Washington’s April 27 response to Chase, reporting that he could not act on Chase’s request because Mr. Cook was apparently held by the state of Penn sylvania and was not a military prisoner subject to his jurisdiction, see Washing ton, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:316-17. John Henry to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir. York Town Api. 20th. 1778. I have procured the inclosed paper with some difficulty. When you have read it, if the Assembly should be setting, I wish you would send it to the Speaker. Different opinions prevail here with regard to the Authenticity of it. For my own part I have no doubt, from what I have lately seen in the English papers, but these two Bills before this time, are enacted into Laws. I dread the impressions it will make upon the minds of many of our people. If it should, and I have no doubt of it, make its appearance in the form of a Law, it will prove more dangerous to our cause than ten thousand of their best troops. It will in a Day or two be under the consideration of Congress. The Cartell for the General Exchange of prisoners is at an End. Upon our commissioners examining the powers of the Commission ers on the part of Genl Howe, they discovered he meant the treaty to be of a personal Nature, founded on the mutual Confidence and Honor of the contracting Generals, and had no Intention of binding the Nation, or of extending the Cartel beyond the limits and Dura tion of his own Command. They declared themselves ready to treat with us on this footing, with their present powers which they deemed adequate to the purposes of their Meeting. Upon this point the treaty broke off. I lament the Situation of our prisoners, and must approve of the Conduct of our Commissioners. A Cartel upon so narrow a foundation as the personal Honor of Genl Howe would be of little use to us and of short duration, liable at any time to be set aside by a subsequent Commander or by the British King without a breech of Honor. This Conduct will teach us a lesson respecting Genl Bur goyne and his Army. I make no doubt you have heard of the insurrection in the Dela ware State. By a Letter from a Mr Patterson we are informed that a considerable Number of the disaffected have assembled at a place
