April 20, 1778 455 near the head of Chester River. They are exerting themselves to add to their Numbers and those who will not join them, they deprive of their Arms and Amunition. It is said here they have British officers among them and expect to be reinforced from Philadelphia. This Matter is viewed here as very serious by some. Mr. Carrol gives his Compliments to you and desires me to acquaint you that there is a considerable quantity of provision at Charles Town at the Head of our Bay which appears to be in a dangerous Situation. There is also as I am informed by Mr. S. Stewart quantities of provisions at Princes Ann in Somerset, and other places in that neighbourhood, which it would be fortunate for us if we could remove them without Delay. When I wrote to you, some Weeks ago, I informed you, that I had procured ten thousand Dollars for the recruiting service which I sent down by Col S. Smith, I have never heard whether you have reed, it. 1 If you should write to any of the Delegates, by the next post, I should be obliged to you to acquaint us with the receipt of the Money if it has reached your hands. I am Sir with great respect, yrs. J. Henry Junr. RC (MdAA). 1 See John Henry to Thomas Johnson, March 6, 1778. Henry Laurens to George Clinton Sir, York Town 20 April 1778. My last was dated 31st March by Green. 1 This morning I had the honour of presenting to Congress Your Excellency’s favor of the 7th Inst, together with the Proclamation which came inclosed—these are referred to a special Committee. 2 Under this Cover Your Excellency will be pleased to receive an Act of Congress of the 15th Inst, for appointing General Gates to the Command of the whole Northern department & authorizing him to call for Militia from New York & the Eastern States &c. 3 In the General’s Instructions he is directed when convenient to confer with 8c take Your Excellency’s advice 8c assistance. General Howe is now circulating as far as his own & the power of his Emissaries extend a Paper said to have been received by the February Packet, but printed in Philadelphia, ’titled “Draught of a Bill (Private) for declaring the intentions of the Parliament of Great Britain con cerning the exercise of the Right of imposing Taxes within His Majesties Colonies Provinces & Plantations in North America.” “Draught of a Bill to enable his Majesty to appoint Commissioners
