April 20, 1778 457 “This day Congress appointed a committee consisting of Samuel Huntington, Francis Lightfoot Lee, and Jonathan Bayard Smith to consider Governor Clinton’s April 7 letter and his enclosed proclamation inviting settlers in Vermont to rec ognize New York’s authority over them. Huntington drafted a report that rebuked efforts to create an independent state of Vermont and declared that “no number or body of people” had the right to set up a new state “without the Consent of the State or States in which they are or were Included at the time the Congress were at first Elected & Convened for the Safety & defence of these United States; & the approbation of Congress.” This report was submitted to Congress (it is not known when), but Congress never read it—in part because the delegates felt they had more pressing business to attend to but also, one supposes, because they were disinclined to tackle such a sensitive issue involving so many conflicting interests and no clearcut way to reconcile them. See JCC, 10:367; Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 3:144-46; and New York Delegates to Clinton, July 21, 1778. 3 Laurens also transmitted copies of these resolves with brief covering letters that he wrote this day to Gov. Jonathan Trumbull of Connecticut and to the Massa chusetts Council. PCC, item 13, fol. 266; and Revolutionary Letters, M-Ar. In addition he sent "under Blank Cover” to President Thomas Wharton of Penn sylvania “an Act of Congress of the 17th April for preventing further purchases by Pennsylvania Commissioners.” PCC, item 13, fol. 265; and JCC, 10:361. 1 On April 21 Laurens also dispatched copies of this “Draught of a Bill to . . . appoint Commissioners” to absent delegates Samuel Adams and Henry Marchant. Laurens Papers, ScHi. Henry Laurens to James Duane 20th April [1778], I wish time permitted, I would attempt some amendment of the hurried sketch above, I know you will excuse its imperfection. I write all my private Letters by scraps as I can catch half an hour & half an hours disposition, the intervals between Public business na ture claims as her own for lounging or amusement & we have often little family quarrels upon this score. General Howe has as far as his own & the Power of his Emissaries have extended sent abroad a spurious draught of a Bill insinuated to be Parliamentary, importing an intended proposition for recon ciling differences &: quieting disturbances in the Colonies. Governor Clinton shall be furnished with a Copy—which you will of course see—probably you will have seen one sooner—your Morris & our Drayton have it in hand. I make no doubt but that we shall return it decently tarred &: feathered. 1 The Commissioners at New Town for establishing a Cartel for Exchange of Prisoners have done as did Balaam & Balak, 24 Numbers 25 V. 2 Those on our part have gained great Credit, their conduct & proceedings were spirited, perspicuous, honorable to themselves & their Constituents & must do our Cause service in the Eye of the Enemy. General Howe’s dictates to his Agents & their servility are all shabby, &: will expose them all to ridicule & contempt. 3 By the
