458 April 20, 1778 bye, remember to whom I speak, a certain Club of which you are a Member have very fortunately got out of a scrape. You shall see the whole, except the latter stroke, in Print very speedily. 4 I whispered to a friend, this may be passed to the Credit of Providence. Adieu Good Sir. I wish you all happiness & remain, with great Respect, Your obedient & most humble servant, Henry Laurens. RC (NHi). A continuation of Laurens to Duane, April 17, 1778. 1 On April 22 Congress approved and ordered publication of the address drawn up by the committee appointed on the 20th to formulate a response to the news of Lord North’s conciliatory bills. JCC, 10:374-80. This address first appeared in the April 24 issue of the Pennsylvania Gazette. In addition to Gouverneur Morris and William Henry Drayton, Francis Dana was also a member of the committee that drew up this document. JCC, 10:367. According to his own testimony, Morris was the author of this address. See Gouverneur Morris to John Jay, May 3, 1778. 2 “And Balaam rose up, and went and returned to his place: and Balak also went his way.” “Washington informed Congress of the failure of his negotiations with the British for a prisoner cartel in an April 18 letter to Laurens that was read in Congress on the 20th. See JCC, 10:367; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:276-78. The progress of these negotiations can best be followed in the reports of the commissioners representing the American side in Alexander Hamilton, The Papers of Alexander Hamilton, Harold C. Syrett et al., eds. (New York: Columbia University Press, 1961-), 1:445-78. ‘ It is unclear whether Laurens is predicting or describing the decision Congress made on April 21 to publish its resolves of that date commending the conduct of Washington’s commissioners during their recent negotiations for a prisoner cartel with the British. JCC, 10:370-71. The delegates had made a serious allegation about the commissioners in the April 14 letter to Washington they had prepared for Laurens’ signature. Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir 20th April [1778] I shall inclose within the present Cover, Copy of “Draught of a Bill &ca”—a most insidious paper said to have arrived from Eng land in the February Packet & now circulating as far as the power of General Howe & that of his Emissaries extend. The paper is evidently calculated to ensnare weak minds, &: to disunite the Citizens of these States. Its wicked designs ought to be compelled 1 everywhere, with the utmost energy. A Report has already reached people of all Ranks that terms of accomodation are offered by Great Britain. Every Man of common discernment will at first reading discover the poison contained in these terms but there are Weak Men who must be supported & Wicked Men who must be confronted in order to prevent the intended Evil from taking effect. Whether this paper really came from England or was manufactured in Philadelphia is
