462 April 21, 1778 cretion. I wish you health & happiness and am with great regard, Dr. Sir, Yr. most hum. Servt. Ch. Carroll of Carrollton RC (MdAA). 1 Gen. William Smallwood’s April 17 letter to President Laurens was read in Congress on April 20 and referred to a committee consisting of Carroll, Samuel Chase, and William Duer. Although the general surmised that the insurrection consisted of “more smoke than Fire,” the insurgents did pose a threat to military stores collected at Charles Town and he thought it prudent to call for outside assistance because “my influence with the Legislature here is very Slender.” The latter reference is to difficulties he had recently had with Delaware officials over the arrest of Charles Gordon and Thomas White, for which see Henry Laurens to Smallwood, March 26, 1778. On April 23 Congress adopted resolves pursuant to the committee’s report calling on Maryland to march 300 militiamen and artil lerists with two field pieces into Delaware, and authorizing the committee to apply to the states of Delaware and Virginia as well if they should deem this necessary to defeat “all disaffections, conspiracies and insurrections” threatening the Del- marva peninsula. The committee apparently did not find it necessary to call for further action at this time, however, for no such committee letters have been found. Congress’ resolves on the committee’s report were transmitted to Maryland by President Laurens. See JCC, 10:368, 383-84; PCC, item 161, fols. 179-82; and Henry Laurens’ April 24 letters to Thomas Johnson and to William Smallwood. Samuel Chase to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir, York Town April 21. [17]78, Tuesday Night 11 o’Clock Congress this Evening reed a Letter from Gen. W. enclosing a Philada. Paper of the 17 Ulto. The Draft of the two Bills (mentd. in mine of this Day) are published in it. Dispatches arrived there last Tuesday, in 28 days. Under the London Head of 19 February , on the Tuesday preceding Leave was given to bring in the two Bills. Lord Norths Speech is in it, on making the proposition. Short late acts for your Satisfaction. “Our Army is great, our Navy is great, our Men in Health, in Spirits, &: well supplied, but the Resistance of America is greater; & the War has lasted longer, than was at first apprehended, much longer than any friend to this Country could wish, & I do not think it will end in this Campaigne. In the present Situation of affairs only three propositions can be made—1st. to strengthen our forces &: continue the War upon the present plan. 2. to recal it from America, and 3. to offer Terms of Conciliation to her. The first is attended with too great an Expence of Men &: Mony, an Expence which Conquest itself wod. not balance. The second is to subscribe to the Independy of America. The third is that which appears to Me to be the best and the wisest. I wish for an open Conference with America—he then explained his plan as expressed in the Bills. “I will say hold out to the Colonies a Cessation of the Exercise
