464 April 21, 1778 of Taxation, & I will not subject it to any Conds. or to the Demand of any specific Contribution. I do not see that any other Concession can be made without admitting the Complete Indy, of America—but wod. be the Effect of that Independy? I cannot see into futurity, but it is big with every possible Evils. Independy with a cordial Love between Us is one thing; with an Union with our Enemies, fatal. From their Indy a Danger arises from a great Naval Power; a Danger also to our other Possessions. I do not think that we should yield to it, till our Resources are much lowered. Indy, is not beneficial to America, she cannot be so happy, so easy, cannot have such personal Liberty, as if she remains dependant on Us.” Moved for the Bills. This Minute received the enclosed from our President. I forgot—Ld North—‘‘it is necessary to hold out some Inducemt to the Colonies, collectively & seperately. Some may not & some may renounce their Independency.” Two things are in my opinion essentially necessary—a respectable Army, a full Congress. Every Nerve shod, be exerted to fill our Ranks. I am of opinion that it would be prudent for every assembly or execu tive immediately to publish a Pardon to all their Subjects who have taken arms etc, who shall return to their Country & take the Oath of allegiance before a limitted Time. 1 Think well of this. I beleive it would thin their Ranks, and detach their friends. We know our people, many of them, are desirous of quitting them. If possible keep our assembly together—if broke up convene them early in June. I wish Mr Stone wod. come up. I wish Paca wod. quit his Judges Seat, & that our assembly wod. appoint him. I did intend Home, but I beleive I shall stay &: see it out. The Hour to try the Firmness & prudence of Men is near at Hand. I am really diffident of Myself, I shall endeavor to act my Part well. My Soul has been chagrined at certain Conduct, but I love my Country, & shall with pleasure retire after Peace is established. I am tired—tis 12 oClock. Adieu, Your Friend, Sami Chase RC (Md A A). 1 This proposal was probably already under consideration, for Congress on April 23 adopted a resolve recommending that the states offer pardons ‘‘to such of their inhabitants or subjects, who have levied war against any of these states . . . and who shall surrender themselves . . . before the 10th day of June/’ and urging the faithful citizens of these states to receive such returning penitents with compas sion and mercy, and to forgive and bury in oblivion their past failings and transgressions.” See JCC, 10:381-82. Henry Laurens to Samuel A. Otis Dear Sir, 21st April 1778. I beg you will accept my best thanks for your favour of 27th March & for the trouble you gave yourself in purchasing the articles by
