April 22, 1778 467 Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dear Pa P a . 22d April 1778 Yesterday evening we heard from the General, who transmitted us a Pha. newspaper containing Lord Norths introductory speech to the two bills which I mentioned in my last. His Speech I will send you by the first opportunity; it shews that the British Ministry are seri ously alarmed at the expence & consequence of this war. I am firmly of opinion; that if we can keep the Enemy at bay this campaign, & prevent their making any considerable impression, That G B will acknowledge the Independency of these 13 united States next winter or spring. The war between the Turks & Russians, the death of the Elector of Bavaria, & the foreseen consequences of that event or at least the dreaded consequences, perhaps, the suspicions of a treaty between our Agents & the Courts of France & Spain and the heavy expence of this war may have determined the Administration to this measure. I believe also they mean to lull us into security, & that they will send this Summer & fall very powerful reinforcements to Gen. Howe. North’s speech discovers great despondency; perhaps there may be some policy in this, the better to deceive us & make us remiss in our preparation. The Raleigh continental Frigate is arrived at Porsmouth in New Hampshire in 32 days from France; the Alfred, which sailed with her, is taken by the Enemy. We have not as yet received any dispatches from our Agents in France by the Raleigh; perhaps the express may be on the road. It will be astonishing if we receive no letters from them by this opportunity. My love to Molly, Mrs. Darnall & the little ones. God grant you all health. I am, yr. affectionate Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton P.S. As the speech will be printed this evening I shall send it to you, that you may judge for yourself. The President has informed some gentlemen (as he says from good authority) that Sir Wm. Howe is recalled & Sir Henry Clinton succeeds him in the command. This piece of information, I believe, comes from his son, who is one of General Washington’s aids. 2d P.S. 24th. I thought to have sent you the Speech before this but the Express has been delayed by other business. I hear nothing more of Howes being superseded. Imagine it is not true; tho’ by Ld. North’s Speech it is pretty plain the Ministry do not approve of his conduct. I am afraid this severe weather will destroy all the forward fruit. Let me know in yr. next whether yours has suffered from it. RC (MdHi).
