468 April 22, 1778 Samuel Huntington’s Proposed Resolution [April 22-23? 1778] 1 Resolved, That notwithstanding the Unmeritted, Injurious & Cruel Treatment the United States of America have receivd from the hands of Great Brittain, they are ever willing & desirous to put an end to the Calamities of War; & (disposed to) not averse from 2 entering into a (Friendly & Commercial perpetual alliance with Great Brittain) Treaty for Peace and Commerce between the two Countries 3 for the mutual Interest & Benefit of both (Nations), Upon Terms not Incon sistant with the Freedom, Sovereignty & Independance of these States; or with any Treaties that are, or shall be made with any other Sov ereign power before Such (Alliance) Treaty be formed. MS (ScHi). In the hand of Samuel Huntington with amendments by Henry Laurens. Endorsed by Laurens: “Proposal for Treaty with Great Britain." 1 It seems likely that this resolution was introduced either on April 22 while Congress was considering how to respond publicly to Lord North’s conciliatory proposals or on the 23rd in the wake of the defeat of a motion for deleting a paragraph from the April 22 resolutions that required Britain’s withdrawal of military forces or explicit recognition of American independence as a prerequisite to peace negotiations. See JCC, 10:379, 382-83. Henry Laurens’ subsequent com ments about this proposed resolve in his April 28 letter to John Laurens and in his May 1 letter to Rawlins Lowndes suggest that it was drafted prior to April 30, the date assigned by Edmund C. Burnett in his edition of delegate Letters. It also seems unlikely that such a resolve would have been introduced after April 27, the date Congress read a letter from George Johnstone to Robert Morris, which indicated that the British peace offer was intended to counter successful American negotiations in Paris. It is probable, nevertheless, that Congress did not take it up formally until April 30, when the journals indicate that “Congress proceeded to take into consideration the state of America with respect to foreign nations,” and May 1, when a motion on the subject was postponed. On this point see Wm. Henry Drayton’s Proposed Resolution, May 1, 1778, note. See also Burnett, Letters, 3:207; and Henry Laurens to Robert Morris, April 27, note 1, to John Laurens, April 28, and to Rawlins Lowndes, May 1, 1778. 2 Preceding three words added by Laurens. 3 Preceding nine words added by Laurens. Henry Laurens to William Aylett Sir, 22d April 1778 I have been honoured by the receipt of your favors of the 28th March & 3d Inst. These together with Govr. Henry Letter which at tended them were presented to Congress the 13th Inst. &: Committed. 1 I have received no other direction but to transmit the Inclosed Act of the 14th for authorizing Mr. Hawkins to proceed in the purchase of Beef &ca & desiring you to continue in your Office until Colo. Wadsworth Commissary general of purchases shall give farther
