April 22, 1778 469 orders. 2 I had detained this Act a few days expecting to have sent it by the Bearer of Money for the Commissary’s department in your district. The Committee have not yet reported on the information given by you respecting the disposal of Salt by Messrs. Hughes & Smith, but as your attention to the public Interest in general & particularly in that Instance is highly applauded & as the reputations of those Gentlemen are also in question, I persuade myself the Committee will not suffer the subject to sleep under their hands, & that a full investigation of facts will soon be made for the satisfaction of all parties. 3 At a time when extortion, purloining, peculation & unjust appro priation of public Money together with a Thousand other Acts equally unbecoming Men professing to be supporters of the Virtuous Cause of these Infant States appear within the observation of every discerning Citizen every day I cannot resist an inclination to thank a fellow Labourer who discovers some attention, some disinterested attachment to public Interest. Your conduct is generally approved as I judge from the Voice of Delegates in Congress; if my particular thanks are worth your acceptance, I beg you will receive them. It is not my intention to insinuate censure nor to pass an hasty judgement against the Gentlemen at Edinton who have not been heard in their defence although from your State of the Case, they have had time & opportunity for that purpose, but admitting you have in some par ticulars mistaken facts, Your Zeal & Candor merit thanks & you have mine most heartily. Let us attack the Vices above mentioned & the whole Catalogue concomitant, & consecutive Attack vigorously when we discover them to be the practice of Men who for safety & support confide in estab lished Character. Bring to punishment one Capital transgressor & an hundred petit Knaves will fall by the same blow. If we attend honestly to the expenditure of public Money, Issues from the Treasury will be restrained & the Comparative value of our Currency preserved. The greatest Enemies to these distressed States are those faithless false friends who under a pretence of serving the public have with sinister views plundered the Treasury, forced Emis sion upon Emission, depreciating the Exchange exactly in proportion to the increase in quantity. Thank God there are some who have acted with a single Eye to public welfare, in this confidence it is with pleasure I assure you I am with great Regard &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 The two letters from William Aylett, deputy commissary of purchases in Vir ginia, and the one from Governor Henry are not in PCC. 2 This day Laurens also wrote a brief covering note to John Hawkins of Williams-
