470 April 22, 1778 burg, Va., transmitting "an Act of Congress of the 14th Inst. Resolving that you proceed to purchase Beef, Cattle & Bacon agreeable to your contract with Gov ernor Henry.” See PCC, item 13, fol. 269; and JCC, 10:348. Unfortunately Hawkins died soon after the passage of this act. See Patrick Henry to the Virginia Delegates, May 26, 1778, PCC, item 78, 1:189-90. 3 The precise nature of Aylett’s charges against former North Carolina delegate Joseph Hewes and his business partner Robert Smith is unclear, but in a May 11 letter to Laurens Aylett alleged that he had bought 1,400 barrels of pork from Hewes that had been insufficiently salted owing to the high price of salt. PCC, item 78, 1:165-71. There is no evidence in the journals that Congress ever took any action against Hewes or Smith on this charge. See also Robert Morris to Committee of Commerce, February 17, 1778. Henry Laurens to Baron de Kalb Dear General 22d April [1778] Although I have been four days in possession of your favor of the 16th 1 yet from a perpetual close engagement with variety of other businesses I am reduced to the necessity of writing in the last minute of Major Roger’s stay at York Town. You will kindly make the proper inference. I am extremely mortified by the account you give of the State of the Packages from Camden. Suspicions that such rascally tricks might be played as you have now experienced, had induced me to give Mr. Henry of Lancaster to whom I had directed the charge of the Trunks to be particularly attentive to the condition in which they should be delivered. I shall write to Colo. Kershaw on this subject & he will make the narrowest scrutiny in order to fix if possible the Roguery to some point. Your Letter for France shall be taken proper care of. With respect to the melancholy circumstance of Doctr. Phile, depend upon me Sir, every thing in my power shall be done to releive him, but I cannot flatter him with hopes of success from the appli cation of any person himself excepted & the subject deserves the utmost exertions of a Parent. 2 If his health will permit he ought to fly in pursuit of his Child. If this cannot be done let him at least transmit me proper directions signed by himself. 3 These I will trans fer to my friends & there will then be some ground for proceeding which will enable my friends in case of need to call in the aid of Government. Let me repeat everything in my power shall be done to serve Baron Kalb & any of his friends; in this particular instance, a stronger tie than common friendship bends me to listen—humanity commands my interposition. I would wish to make it with propriety. I have not a moment for politics but I intreat you do not think of returning to France hastily. Adieu, Dear Sir, I am perfectly & very Sincerely
