April 24, 1778 479 Henry Laurens to Nathanael Greene Sir 24th April 1778 Your favour of the 20th reached me the 22dd I presented it to Con gress whence it was committed to the Treasury & has produced the Inclosed Warrant on the loan Office in New Jersey for 50000 Dollars. Congress had very lately made such draughts on that Office as neither Mr. Borden nor your self had been apprized of, the amount of which, the Delegate from Jersey supposes will have nearly emptied the Office of Money, for this reason & no other your application is not fully answered. I have the honour to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Quartermaster General Greene s April 20 letter to Laurens, in which he re quested “an Order on the Loan Officer of New-Jersey for One hundred and fifty thousand Dollars ... to give Vigour to the Purchasing of Horses and other necessary Supplies,” is in PCC, item 155, 1:63. Congress read Greene’s letter on the 24th and approved a warrant on the New Jersey loan officer for only a third of the amount requested. JCC, 10:384. Henry Laurens to Thomas Johnson Sir - York Town 24 April 1778 1 My last went by Lieutt. Thomson under the 31st March. 2 Much time has elapsed since I have been honoured with any of Your Excel lency’s favors. If Your Excellency will be pleased to intimate the Receipt of my Letters, Congress will have the satisfaction of knowing when their several Acts transmitted to Maryland are in a state of safety, I shall be enabled to detect miscarriages if any should happen, & in the course of my duty to supply deficiencies. Within the present Inclosure Your Excellency will receive an Act of Congress of the 23d Inst, for detecting disaffection & defeating con spiracies & Insurrections in the district therein mentioned, together with Copy of a Letter from General Smallwood of the 17th & Copies of two Letters which the General refers to. Your Excellency will likewise receive in the same Packet 12 Copies of a Speech said to be Lord North’s in Parliament, draughts of Bills which he refers to & an Act of Congress of the 22d April pointing to the supposed Speech &c. 3 I have the honour to be, With great regard, sir, Your Excellency’s Obedient &: humble servt, Henry Laurens, President of Congress.
