480 April 24, 1778 RC (MdAA). 1 Laurens also wrote substantially the same letter this day to Governor Henry of Virginia. PCC, item 13, fol. 270. ’See Laurens to Richard Caswell, March 31, 1778, note 2. 3 Laurens noted in his presidential letter book that this day he also transmitted to Gov. William Livingston of New Jersey and President Caesar Rodney of Delaware twelve copies of Congress’ April 22 reply to Lord North’s conciliatory bills. PCC, item 13, fol. 274; and JCC, 10:374-80. At the same time he sent copies of this reply and an April 24 resolve "for transporting Provisions & Stores from the Southern States across Cheasepeake” to President Thomas Wharton of Penn sylvania. PCC, item 13, fol. 273; and JCC, 10:385. Henry Laurens to John Penn Dear Sir, 24th April [1778] By the Seals affixed to the inclosed Letter you will see that I had opened it, that is to say, had in my usual way cut the paper round the first Seal, which was no sooner done than I discovered the error without seeing the Contents the whole of which I am as ignorant as you at the present moment are. It had come in a number of public Letters when Mr. Drayton was sitting with us 8c anxious to com municate intelligence to that Gentleman, I had begun to open this, supposing it to have been directed to me, he was Witness to the acci dent Sc to my instantly mending the breach. Inclosed with this you will receive three Copies of an Act of Con gress of the 22d Inst, founded on the appearance of preceeding Acts said to be Lord Norths Speech Sc draughts of Bills referred to. Sup posing these to be Sibyl’s Letters, our Act I trust, will do no harm. The States will learn the temper of their Delegates 8c I hope be animated to the utmost exertions for reinforcing the Army. The gen eral opinion is in favor of the genuineness of the Speech Scca. Sc last Night intelligence from the City imported marks of confirmation. Tis said the Army Sc their Landlords were in commotion the former ex ceedingly dissatisfied with the politics at St. James’s, the latter with “Conscience trembling for their Sins.” I may laugh at all this 8c admit it to be so, but as nothing looks so much like an honest Man as a Rogue, I would act 8c earnestly wish all these States to Act as if the whole was manoevre. Admitting this suspicion to be grounded in experience, we ought to be ready 8c early with a formidable Army in the Field. A formidable appearance will oblige our Enemies to dulcify their propositions if they mean to hold out any, for peace. Never trust appearances on the part of an Enemy. General Gates will begin his Journey to Morrow for Fish Kill where he is to take Command of the Northern Army. In the way he is to call at Valley forge 8c assist in a Council of Major Generals for
