April 24, 1778 481 establishing a plan of operations for the Campaign. General Mifflin will attend him. I could write you a sheet full of affairs but yonder Bill will fright me presently, & I have been sitting in this spot from 14 past four, tis now near Nine. Adieu Dear Sir, I wish you health & every degree of happiness which is worth twenty humble servants. LB (ScHi). Addressed: “John Penn Esquire, New Bern, by Wm. Stuart." Henry Laurens to William Smallwood sir 24th April [1778] Your favor of the 17th with the papers referred to I had the honor of receiving & presenting in due course to Congress. A special Com mittee of Mr. Duer, Mr. Chase & Mr. Carrol are appointed by Con gress in order to confer with the Goverments of Maryland, Virginia & if needful Delaware on proper measures for supressing the threatned Evils intimated in your late dispatches. From these Gentle men you will receive the necessary information. 1 I have only at pres ent to Inclose an Act of Congress of the 23d Inst, reviving late powers vested in General Washington & extending the term to the 10th August next. I am with very great Esteem &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 No committee letter to Smallwood has been found, but for a discussion of this issue, see Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Thomas Johnson, April 21, 1778, note. Henry Laurens to George Washington $ lr > York Town 24th Ap. 1778 Since my last of the 18th Inst, by a Messenger returning to Govr. Livingston, I have had the honor of presenting to Congress Your Excellency’s Letter of the 20th. 1 Your Excellency will be pleased to receive under the present Cover. 1. An Act of Congress of the 21st Ap. approving the conduct of the Commissioners appointed by Your Excellency to treat with British Commissioners for Exchange of Prisoners &ca. 2 2. for granting Pardons & recommending to the several States to enact Laws for that purpose (dated 23d). 3. of the 23d renewing the Powers formerly vested in Your Excel lency & extending the term to 10th August next. 3
