492 April 25, 1778 would releive me by the latter End of May or the beginning of June at farthest. I hope my Request will be complyed with so that by that Time I may Return Home. For altho I do now injoy Health and have done so since I came here more than what I had Reason to expect, and my Situation here is quite comfortable in a kind & Virtuous Family, yet my own Inclination as well as an Attention to my Family, induce me most strongly to Return and live with them. This will go by an unknown Express but I hope it will come safe to Hand. Mr. Sherman came to Congress yesterday. Mr. Huntington will Return with me. My kindest Love to my Children and Friends. Take Care of your Health and may the Almighty Bless you. I am yours, with the Tenderest Affection, Oliver Wolcott P.S. It is in Contemplation to sink 20,000,000 Dollars in a Loan and pay the annual Interest in Bills on France. This measure may be adopted—and if so I think that it will by calling in and burning so large a Quantity give Credit to the Whole—and perhaps particularly raise the first Emissions which are proposed to be sunk in this man ner. As the Payment of the Interest in Bills will while the Interest shall continue have the same Effect to the Lender as tho the Prin cipal was in specie, This may therefore induce such People as have the first Emissions not to part with them or rather induce such as Wish to be Lenders to procure such Bills. As every one well knows that a Certificate whenever it may be necessary to turn it into money may easily be done. The Randolph Frigate is lost, Blown up in an Engagement. RC (CtHi). 1 See Wolcott to Laura Wolcott, April 14, 1778. Committee for Foreign Affairs to William Bingham Sir, York Town April 26th. 1778 Herewith you have a triplicate and copy of my former letters. I now send you the proceedings of Congress upon an appearance of two draughts of Bills said to have been read in the British Parlia ment. Since Congress took notice of them Govr. Tryon has sent out copies with greater marks of authenticity than those bore which first came to hand. He certifies that he has “his majesty’s command to cause them to be printed and dispersed, that the people at large may be acquainted with their contents, and of the favourable disposition of the people of Great Britain towards the American Colonies.” I will not attempt to lead your judgement upon these proceedings
