April 26, 1778 497 Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Si r 26th April [1778] When I writ to your Excellency by Messenger Brown the 20th Inst. 1 I had been at some trouble to procure the Copy of "Draughts of Bills” &ca which went inclosed with my Letter, from an opinion that I should have offered somewhat quite new, but If I may be allowed to judge, from the measures which have been adopted by the late Governor of New York for affronting Govr. Livingston, Gen eral Washington &c &c, Your Excellency had before that date been insulted by Mr. Tryon with several printed Copies of the Draughts Certified by his own important signature & Ushered by an immodest injunction to disperse them. 2 That active Agent might have saved his directors & himself some expence & trouble. Congress had from the first appearance of the paper Resolved to transmit it into every Corner of these United states. Far from apprehensive of any evil consequences it is the desire of the House that it should be presented to the consideration of every Man of common understanding throughout the Land. In pursuance of this sentiment, I have the honor of transmitting within the present Inclosure 12 Copies of an Act of Congress of the 22d Inst, confirming the Report of a Committee on General Washing tons Letter of the 18th containing the said Draughts to which is prefixed a speech said to be Lord North’s when he introduced the Draughts into Parliament. Your Excellency will also receive an Act of Congress of the 23d for granting pardons to certain Characters therein described, & Rec ommending to the several States to enact Laws or Issue proclama tions for that purpose. Congress ever induced to this measure from well founded suggestions that great advantages would follow. I have the honor to be with very great Regard. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See Laurens to George Clinton, April 20, 1778, note 3. 2 Laurens’ surmise was correct. See Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull Sr., May 18, 1778, note 2. John Mathews to Thomas Bee Dear Sir, 1 York Town April 26th. 1778 I Arrived here the 21st Inst, after a most disagreeable Journey indeed. I inclose you a paper 2 (which if you have not seen) will amuse you, & I imagine some parts will not a little surprise you. Compare
