April 26, 1778 499 them from Tryon, which are certified by him, to have actually pass’d. The report fully shews you the Ideas of Congress on this important subject. As this is a matter of as great & momentous concern as any that can come before Congress (except that of real treaty) I would therefore wish my conduct on every such occasion to be known to my Country, 8c leave to their Judgment whether I am right, or wrong. I do therefore declare the whole report met with my most hearty concurrance. I could then wish, If Commissioners should come out this summer, (as I really believe they will) & they have such powers as Congress can consistently treat with them upon, That a special meeting of the Legislature should be call’d, on this most Important subject, that their delegates may know their sentiments, & receive instructions accordingly. I just drop the hint to you, that you might be prepared for such an Event. I have not consulted any of my Col- legues on this Subject, but I think the necessity of such a measure is so self evident that they must concur with me in this opinion, I am sure I should not think myself Justifyed in stirring one step in this business without. I have not time to add more than that I am Dr. Bee, with sincere Esteem Yr. most Obdt. Servt. Jno. Mathews P.S. 27th. We received an express late last night (for tho’ Sunday, we are obliged to do business, three nights out of five that I have been in Congress, we have sat ’till nine 8c ten oClock, so that you may imagine our business not trifling) from the General, Informing us that he had just received an account that he could depend on, That the Commissioners from England were daily expected in Philadel phia. They are Lord Amherst, Admiral Keppel, & Genl. Murray. 4 From such Men I am sure we can expect Nothing decisive, neither of whom have one single Qualification Requisite for such a business. They come out with their full Military Commissions also. On such Conduct, 8c such Men, I could say much, but time will not permit. Genl. Howe is certainly recalled 8c Clinton to take the Command. RC (ScC). Tr (ScC). RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. ’For Bee’s identification, see these Letters, 1:255. a Undoubtedly the April 24 issue of the Pennsylvania Gazette, which contained texts of Lord North’s proposals for Anglo-American reconciliation and Congress’ April 22 response to them. 3 See ]CC, 10:374-80. ‘ Washington’s April 25 report to Congress on the identity of the British peace commissioners was in error. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:307-8. The Earl of Carlisle, William Eden, George Johnstone, Admiral Richard Howe, and Gen. William Howe were the peace commissioners actually appointed by the king, though only the first three served. See Weldon A. Brown, Empire or Independence: A Study in the Failure of Reconciliation, 1774—1778 (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1941), pp. 244-48.
