500 April 27, 1778 Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dear Papa, 27th April 1778 I have yours of the 23d instant. I return you Skerrett’s letter, act upon it as you see best. Brown is an orderly industrious fellow, & I would wish to keep him, but I think his demands are exorbitant. I wish Molly could recover faster, but her perfect recovery must be the work of time & proper regimen. I am sorry for the death of bold Robin; his death is a real loss. General Amherst, General Murray & Admiral Keppel are the Commissioners coming to treat with America. General Howe is certainly recalled; Sir Henry Clinton is to succeed him in the command, but I apprehend, only until the arrival of General Amherst, who I imagine will have the supreme Command. From the inclosed letter, & the articles of News in the printed hand bill, which you sent me, I have no doubt but that preliminaries of a treaty have been entered into by our Agents at Paris. I suspect Car michael is taken by the Enemy, as he sailed from France, or left Paris, the 27th of last Deer. Govr. Johnston’s letter gives us the first authentic information of such a treaty being on foot, & accounts for Ld North’s Speech & the two acts which it ushered in to the House of Commons. We have reed no advice from our Agents since last May; surely several dispatches have been intercepted by the Enemy. I am, Yr. affectionate Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton P.S. General Lee is Exchanged for Gen. Prescot and several other officers have been lately exchanged for officers of like rank. RC (MdHi). Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir, Monday 27 April 1778 We have yr. letter, 1 &: have written this day to Mr Morris for the articles therein mentioned; our letter is gone by an Express, which the President had occasion to send in order to return the original of the inclosed copy of a letter from Govr. Johnstone to Mr. Morris. 2 Your application to Congress for 100,000 Dollars shall be laid before Congress tomorrow. We will write you the result by the first oppor tunity. 3 Gen. Amherst, General Murray, & Admiral Keppel are the Commissioners coming out under the Act of Parliat. for offering terms of peace & reconciliation. General Howe is recalled, & Sir Henry Clinton is to succeed him, but I apprehend only till General Amherst’s arrival; I think, as he is one of the Commissioners, he will have the supreme command of the army.
