April 27, 1778 501 I think we may fairly conclude from Govr. Johnstone’s letter, & from the articles in the newspapers, which you have seen, that some treaty or the Preliminaries of a treaty have been entered into between France &: our Commissioners. We have had no letters from them since last May; several no doubt have been intercepted. The Ad ministration getting wind of this treaty have been induced thereby to offer terms to this Country: but no terms short of Independence are in my opinion admissible without the utmost danger & disad vantage to these States. I am with great esteem, Dr. Sir yours &c, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton N.B. Do not print Governor Johnstone’s letter, as [it is] a private letter. General Lee is exchanged for General Prescot. RC (MdAA). Addressed: “To His Excellency Governor Johnson Esquire of Mary land, Annapolis, to be opened in his absence by the Council.” 1 The Maryland Council’s April 23 letter to their delegates is in PCC, item 70, fol. 249, and Md. Archives, 21:54. 2 For information on the subject of the enclosed copy of George Johnstone’s February 5 letter to Robert Morris—which is in the Red Books, 10:78, MdAA— see Henry Laurens to Robert Morris, April 27, 1778, note 1. 3 The next day John Henry wrote the following brief letter to Governor Johnson: “I have just time to drop you a line and to inform you Congress have granted to the State of Maryland, one hundred thousand Dollars. It will be sent forward tomorrow or next Day. “Mr. Carrol will give you the News of the Day which is very important.” Red Books, MdAA. For Congress’ order directing that $100,000 be paid to the Maryland delegates, see JCC, 10:402. Henry Laurens to Richard Caswell Sir, 27th April 1778 I had the honor of writing to Your Excellency the 24th by Mes senger Stuart. Yesterday by the hands of the Honorable Mr. Harnet under a blank Cover I conveyed Copies of an Act of Congress of the 23d for granting pardons & recommending to the several States to enact Laws or issue Proclamations adopted to obtain the great end in view. As this may possibly reach your Excellency before Colonel Harnet’s arrival at New Bern I judge it necessary to forward another Copy of that Act under its Cover. No part Sir, of the various transactions of business in my Office nor all the hard labour of the last Six Months has occasioned me so much pain as I feel at this Instant from the Duty of transmitting a paper which Your Excellency will find inclosed containing minutes of Congress respecting the Honble. Mr. Burke one of the Delegates from North Carolina, from the 10th to the 25th April, which Your Ex-
