502 April 27, 1778 cellency is requested to lay in due time, before the Assembly of that State. 1 The Honorable Gentleman who is most nearly concerned in this Novel untoward circumstance intends to return to Carolina in a very few days. The course of my Duty constrains me to the present transmission, but I am persuaded it is not the desire of Congress to take advantage of Mr. Burke nor to hurt his Character by impressions made in his absence on the minds of his fellow Citizens, or without affording a reasonable time for his appearance at the tribunal of his Country, where only the Honorable Gentleman holds himself amen able. I have the honour to be with the most perfect Esteem P.S. As Govr. Tryon has been sending Lord North’s draughts of Bills to the several Governors & General Officers in this Quarter ’tis not to be doubted your Excellency has been or will be insulted [in] the same way by some other Tool of the British Ministry. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See JCC, 10:334, 336-37, 339, 385-91. See also Thomas Burke’s Proposed State ment to Congress, April 13, 1778, and his April 29 letters to Caswell and to the North Carolina Assembly. Henry Laurens to Thomas Johnson Sir, York Town 27th Ap. 1778. 1 I beg leave to refer Your Excellency to my last under the 24th Inst, by Messenger Stuart. The present will be accompanied by two Acts of Congress Vizt. 1. of 24th April for transporting the Public Provisions & Stores across the Chesapeak Bay or otherwise. 2. of 23d for granting Pardons & Recommending to the several States to pass Laws or Issue Proclamations for that purpose. I remain With great Regard, Sir, Your Excellency’s Obedient & humble servt, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (MdAA). 1 Laurens wrote virtually the same letter this day to Governor Henry of Virginia. Hamilton-McLane Family Papers, DLC. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Dear Sir, 27th April [1778] Should I remain totally silent Your Excellency may possibly pause & make some enquiry into the reason.
