504 April 27, 1778 22 reply to Lord North’s conciliatory bills a proposal by Gouverneur Morris to call upon the states “to send a full and adequate Representation to Congress’’ to con sider the question of entering into negotiations with British peace commissioners. See Morris to John Jay, May 3, 1778. Laurens’ own suggestion to invite leaders from outside Congress to consult with the delegates on this issue became irrelevant as soon as official news of the signing of treaties of alliance and commerce with France arrived on May 2. Henry Laurens to the Middle Department Navy Board Gentlemen, 27th April 1778 Under this Cover you will receive an Act of Congress of the 18th Resolving that an Enquiry be made into the Causes of the loss of the Frigate Virginia which Congress expect you will enter upon as early as possible. 1 I have conversed with Mr. Smith 2 & received his promise of giving you every assistance in his power & have written to Mr. Stewart whose aid I believe you may likewise depend upon. I have the honor to be with great regard. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “John Nixon, Fra. Hopkinson, & John Wharton Esquires, Commissioners of the Navy Board at Borden Town, New Jersey.” 1 See JCC, 10:363-64. The Continental frigate Virginia, Capt. James Nicholson, had run aground and was captured by the British off Cape Charles, Md., on April 1. There is no evidence that the Navy Board ever submitted a report on this matter to Congress or the Marine Committee, but see William Ellery to William Whipple, May 31, 1778. See also William M. Fowler, Jr., “James Nicholson and the Continental Frigate Virginia," American Neptune 34 (April 1974): 135-41. ’William Smith, the Marine Committee’s agent in Baltimore. Henry Laurens to Robert Morris sir > 27th April 1778 Late last Night I was honoured with your favor of yesterday which with the papers inclosed were immeditely communicated to several Members & this Morning presented to Congress. 1 The House ordered a Copy of Govr. Johnsons Letter to be taken by the Secretary, and I now return within the present inclosure that Letter & the draught of the Bills. You will also find in company with these a Letter put into my hands by the Delegates from Maryland 2 & Six Copies of an Act of Congress of the 22d Inst, to which is prefixed the above mentioned Bills & a speech said to be Lord North’s when he introduced the Bills into Parliament.
