514 April 28, 1778 Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear son, York Town 28th April 1778 1 This Evening Your kind favor of yesterday 2 inclosing a Letter directed to my Daughter came to hand, this shall be forwarded by an Express Messenger to morrow who will be a Month ahead of Monsr Francy. I am glad our Act of the 22d pleases you—it appears to me to be sufficiently energetic for the present purpose—the last paragraph one excepted will point out to the illustrious Commissioners from White Hall, from whence to take their departure & save much time which might otherwise have been spent in Ceremonious preliminary. 3 My sentiment is that this little Clause of 7 Lines nullifies many Pages of their Instructions, it certainly contains a complete answer to the Laborious performances of Lord North & the Labours of the blood thirsty Tryon. The Tit for Tat, which your General lately gave to the Quondam Governor must exceedingly mortify a Man of his arrogance. Some of our people here have been exceedingly desirous of throw ing abroad in addition to the Resolutions an intimation of the will ingness of Americans to treat with G Britain upon terms not incon sistent with the Independence of these States or with Treaties with foreign powers. 4 I am averse. We have made an excellent move on the Table—rest until we see or learn the motions on the other side— the whole World must know we are disposed to treat of Peace & to conclude one upon honorable terms. To Publish therefore is un necessary—it would be a dangerous Act, encourage our Enemies & alarm our friends. Your Ideas respecting New York square precisely with my own. 5 I wish the States & the People of the States could be roused to fill a reputable Army. You have thousands of Men scatter’d over the Coun try in the Character of Servants to Officers &c &c. Why are not they collected. There is amazing laxness of discipline somewhere or per haps too generally in your Army. What does Hartley’s Regiment in this Town? Congress ordered it to Camp a fortnight ago. 6 Their Idle Drums & Fifes twice a day by my window jarr upon my soul. Thus are we & thus we suffer our selves to be treated. I have in hand the article you desire for Summer wear, sent for it from Boston, you shall have it by the present or the very next Mes senger. Try to say somewhat to the several heads of my Letters in order to rep[air] my Memory, for I have not time to Copy generally in the very wane of time I take up a piece of Paper to tell you in the best manner so short a moment how very truly & affectionately & respectly I am your faithful friend, Henry Laurens
