April 28, 1778 515 RC (MHi: William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, 1973). 1 Laurens apparently wrote a letter to John on April 27 that has not been found. In his private letter book for that date Laurens tersely noted “sent without Copy” in reference to an April 27 letter to his son. It is doubtful that the letter referred to is the same as the one printed here because Laurens used different messengers on the 27th and the 28th to transmit letters to Valley Forge. According to his letter book Samuel Wilkinson, the messenger he employed on the former date, carried the letter of the 27th to John, while Joseph Sharp bore Laurens’ letters of the 28th. Laurens Papers, ScHi. 2 See Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, pp. 162-65. 2 The next to last paragraph of Congress’ April 22 response to Lord North’s conciliatory bills stated that the United States would not negotiate with British peace commissioners unless Great Britain "as a preliminary thereto, either with draw their fleets and armies, or else, in positive and express terms, acknowledge the independence of the said states.” JCC, 10:379. ‘See Samuel Huntington’s Proposed Resolution, April 22-23? 1778. 5 John had deprecated some unnamed proponents of a plan for taking New York City “by storm.” Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, p. 164. “There is no mention of this order in the journals. Henry Laurens to Henry Lee Sir 28th April [1778] I had yesterday the honor of presenting your Letter of the 24th to Congress & this Evening by order of the House I issued a Warrant on the Treasury for 50,000 Dollars for the use of your Corps of Horse payable to Lieutt. Rudulph to whom the warrant is delivered. 1 Some difficulties arose in Congress respecting the propriety of seizing Horses within the State of Maryland which occasioned a Report from the Board of War on that head to be laid aside for future consideration, in the mean time I have referred Mr. Rudulph to a Gentleman one of the Delegates from that State who had promised to point out places to him where he may purchase good Horses at about £125 per Horse, & avoid the violence &: danger of seizing private property. Mr. Rudulph will undoubtedly communicate such information as he may receive. I remain with great regard. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). ‘Major Lee’s April 24 letter to Laurens is in PCC, item 78, 14:225-26. In it he announced that the bearer, Lt. John Rudolph of Lee’s recently formed battalion of light dragoons, would wait upon Laurens “to receive instructions concerning procuring horses, and obtaining a sufficient sum of money for the purposes of recruiting and purchasing accoutrements,” and argued that in view of the high price of horses it was “absolutely necessary, that some powers be given to certain persons to impress for the service and pay according to valuation on oath.” Al though the Board of War prepared a report proposing to grant Lee authority to impress horses on “the Peninsula formed by the Delaware and Chesapeake Bays,” Congress, as Laurens delicately informed the major, decided that this report should be “laid aside for future consideration.” See JCC, 10:401-2.
