April 28, 1778 519 those officers who often express their wishes for our success & beleive that even the Commander in Chief thinks our Cause just. This seems wondrous strange! The papers which will accompany this will shew you Great Britain desire of Peace & the mean Stratagem which she is substituting for honest intentions in order to deceive us. Possibly the Act of Congress of the 22d April may teach her Ministry to know we are not quite blind, nor quite Idiots. We have been long battleing in Congress on a half pay establish ment to take place after the present War for our Officers which I hold to be inconsistent with our original Compact, unjust in a comparative view with the Militia & with the Soldiery in general unconstitutional & dangerous. Upon these Several branches I have endeavored to reason against the measure & may by & by shew you my sentiments. If the Question is carried it will be by a bare Majority of one State. Mr. Tryon the late Governor of New York, has had the imodesty to insult General Washington & all our Generals commanding at Posts in the Northern & Eastern departments as well Governors of States with Copies of the Draughts of Bills offered by Lord North to parliament with an injunction to make them public among the Offi cers & Soldiers of the Army & the people in general. In return to such effrontry, General Washington has sent him the Act of Congress of the 22d April, shewing the Quondam Governor that ’tis the wish of Congress his Curious draughts should enjoy an unrestrained circula tion. At the same time he also transmitted him an Act of Congress of the 23d April for granting pardons, a Copy of which you will find here inclosed, desiring the said Governor to exert his powers to com municate the contents to the persons who are the objects of its opera tion, & concludes with a sneer upon Mr. Tryon—“The benevolent purpose it is intended to answer will I persuade myself recommend it to your Candor.” Thus I think the Governor’s account is Balanced by a retort which he would not have expected & which will therefore be the more mortifying to a Man of his arrogance. It is said that Lord Amherst, Admiral Keppel & General Murray are named as Commissioners for treating with Congress & that they are daily expected. When they arrive at Philadelphia they will meet half their business done by the Act of the 22d. The paragraph, next to the last, will point out to them where to begin their negotiation & save much trouble of preliminary which otherwise they might have judged necessary. My circumstances are such as afford me only scraps of time for writing private Letters & none to Copy & amend. You will therefore account for the imperfections of this & be so good as to accept it
