April 28, 1778 523 the 50 Gun ship. Our little fleet is much diminished. 4 Hopeing that we may be more fortunate in future, We are Sir, Yr. most obed servants P.S. Inclosed is a Resolve of Congress of this date 5 Appointing Wil liam Burke a Captain in the Navy, and directing that he should receive from the time he was Appointed to the Command of the schooner Warren to this day according to the Rate of Pay settled when he was so Appointed. We now desire that you will settle his account and pay him Agreeable to the said Resolve. You will please to inform us who was the Captain next in Commission to Captain Manly of the five Vessels fitted out by order of General Washington. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Samuel Chew was killed on March 4 while engaging a British privateer mount ing twice as many guns as his brigantine Resistance. Morgan, Captains to the Northward, pp. 118-19. "At his June court-martial Capt. Thomas Thompson was found guilty of failing to bring the Raleigh to the assistance of the Alfred during its capture on March 9, whereas the conduct of the Alfred’s captain Elisha Hinman was vindicated by a court-martial in February 1779. For further discussion of the Alfred's capture and the subsequent courts-martial, see ibid., pp. 122-25, 148, 154-55. See‘also Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, May 8, 1778. 3 Capt. Nicholas Biddle and all but 4 of his 315 crewman perished on March 7 when the Randolph exploded while engaging the 64-gun ship Yarmouth off Barbados. For Biddle’s naval career and last cruise, see William Bell Clark, Captain Dauntless, the Story of Nicholas Biddle of the Continental Navy (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1949). ‘The Continental Navy had suffered significant losses during recent months. The Randolph tragedy, followed by the surrender of the Virginia, left only seven of the original thirteen Continental frigates, and five of the seven were not in service. The Warren, after taking two prizes on her maiden cruise in March, was idle at Boston awaiting crew and the Trumbull, unable to clear the bar, remained trapped in the Connecticut River. The unfinished frigates Effingham and Wash ington would be burned in the enemy’s May raid up the Delaware and the Raleigh, after acquiring a new captain, would be captured in September. The sixteen vessels purchased in 1775 and converted to form the nucleus of the Con tinental fleet had fared even worse than the frigates. With the loss of the Alfred and the Columbus in March, and several smaller craft during the May raid, only the sloop Providence remained active and she was being rebuilt at New Bedford between February and July. Although the purchased frigate Queen of France and sloop General Gates would soon be active in American waters, at this moment American hopes for naval success turned to European waters, as the frigate Providence, reaching open sea on April 30, sailed for France to join the sloop Ranger and the frigate Boston, which had recently carried John Adams to Bordeaux. See Howard I. Chapelle, The History of the American Sailing Navy (New York: W. W. Norton Sc Company, Inc., 1949), pp. 53-55; and Morgan, Captains to the Northward, chap. 5. “For this May 1 resolve, see JCC, 10:412. For a discussion of Burke’s brief career with the Continental Navy as captain of the Resistance, see Morgan, Captains to the Northward, pp. 119-21.
