524 April 28, 1778 Gouverneur Morris to John Jay Dear Jay. York Town 28th April 1778. This Letter is to be handed to you by Genl. Gates. Let me recom mend him to your particular Attention. Vermont you will say pre vents this. 1 Policy may have induced him to flatter those People when he wanted their Assistance. Let us take it up on that Ground. In his present Command he will want the Assistance of our State, the cordial Assistance of its Rulers. I have promised this. I write to you, to Liv ingston 2 & jointly with Duer to the Governor. 3 This is sufficient and you will all three I am confident exert yourselves whenever Necessity shall [require it?]. I am, yours &ca. Gouvr Morris RC (NNC). Addressed: “Horde John Jay Esqr. Chief Justice of the State of New York, Fish Kill or elsewhere.” 1 Some New Yorkers were wary of Gates because of his cooperation during the campaign of 1776 with some local Vermont committees whose authority was not recognized by New York. Walter H. Crockett, Vermont, the Green Mountain State, 5 vols. (New York: Century History Co., 1921), 1:532-33. 2 Morris did not write to Robert R. Livingston until May 3. 3 See New York Delegates to George Clinton, April 30, 1778. Robert Morris to John Brown Sir Manheim April 28th 1778 Amongst the letters Christian brought me last night were the sev eral you will find enclosed herewith, which being intended for the Marine Committee & Commercial Committee You will deliver them with my Compliments and I think the Commercial Committee wou’d do a very just & proper thing if they were to give Mr Livingston orders to Continue sending Cargoes of Rice both to Mr Ceronio & Mr Bingham as fast as he can, they have suffered exceedingly by mak ing advances for the Public but particularly the former and they ought to be relieved. If Mr. Ceronio does not receive remittances it is probable he may be Imprisoned; he has been threatned with that Fate by his Creditors & he has served us with a Zeal and Fidelity that merits much better things. I wou’d order Mr Livingston however not to ship Indigo for the loss on that will be great, but then he shou’d ship the more Rice which will produce a proffit. The Schooner Lewis, Capt Rowan, was employed it seems to carry Cap Pickles to New Orleans, but I am informed by a Gentn now here, that the Crew Rose & after landing Pickles & Rowan near the Havannah they carried the Schooner into Providence which breaks up that plan.
