528 April 29, 1778 regard to Liberality, a few words which I would have said would have Satisfied the House, and put an end to it, but as the matter was man aged it became Inconsistent with my Duty and my honor to make any Concession without expressly insisting on my opinions. That with this reservation I would make any apology the House should require, but without it I could make none which would not involve a breach of Trust to my Country, and no punishment could be de vised which I would not meet sooner than be guilty of such an of fence. The members of the Committee still persisted; nothing would do but an Explicit acknowledgement of what they pleased to call my Error. I rejoined only that I knew no power who could make a man change his opinion before he was Convinced of his Error, that I was not and therefore would not acknowledge it. They proceeded now to enter on the Journals such a state of facts as they pleased. I desired only that they would enter a fair and full statement, that such as they offered were far from being so. After some time it was said by the Gentlemen that I should have an opportunity of answering and could set forth any that were omitted. In my answer I acquiesced, and so did the House. They then proceeded to take down some of my Expressions in debate. I required them to take down all that would speak my full Sense, and not detached Expressions; that I would give it to them as fully as they could wish, being firmly resolved not to retract one Iota of it. But I was answered, as before, that I could supply the deficiencies in my answer, and I acquiesced. The Entries were made and the president announced them in form. I thanked him for his politeness of manner, told him I hoped I could satisfy the House that no disrespect was Intended to them, but that I avowed my opinions as I delivered them in debate; that I persisted in them, and insisted on entire freedom of Debate. I was required to return an answer to the next adjournment, which was to be in the after noon, and I desired no longer time; but afterwards the House changed it to Monday, which was the next day of Business. 10 Reprinted from N.C. State Records, 13:403-7. FC (Nc-Ar). The FC is a twelve-page manuscript in Burke’s hand; eight pages are a draft of Burke’s letter to Caswell, and four contain additional passages apparently not used. 1 See Henry Laurens to Caswell, April 27, 1778. For further accounts of Burke’s dispute with Congress, which is the main subject of Laurens’ letter, see Burke’s Proposed Statement to Congress, April 13, and his letter to the North Carolina Assembly, April 29, 1778. ’After this sentence in the FC Burke wrote a brief summary of Washington’s April 4 letter to President Laurens on the subject of negotiating a prisoner ex change that he omitted in the letter he sent to Governor Caswell. For a discussion of the significance of Washington’s letter, see Henry Laurens to Washington, April 8, 1778, note 4. 3 Following this sentence in the FC Burke wrote: “We deemed it unjust and impolitic to give an unnecessary affront to an Officer who had so well deserved of his Country, and was still so important to our affairs.”
