532 April 29, 1778 Thomas Burke to the North Carolina Assembly [April 29, 1778] 1 I beg leave to submit to the assembly the following State of Facts and the proofs relating to them, also of my motives and Sentiments which gave occasion to the transmissions from Congress. 2 General Washington had written complaining of some Embarass- ments in forming a Cartel occasioned by several resolutions of Con gress which he deemed inconsistent and requesting something to be done to remove them. 3 A Committee was appointed to draught an answer. A draught was reported and it was the subject of Debate on the 10th of April. It was in many parts in my opinion exceptionable and I together with some other members opposed those parts. The members of the Com mittee were very strenuous in their Endeavours to carry it through. The Exceptionable Parts seemed calculated to wound the General’s Sensibility, and I could perceive no Necessity for it. After the Day until ten O’clock at Night had been Spent in debate on One para graph which was at length amended, an adjournment was moved for, and the Committee Strenuously pressed to go through the remainder of the Letter that night tho at so late an Hour. I who had Sustained a principle part in the Debate was totally unable to continue any longer by reason of the violence of a fit of an Intermitting fever under which I labored. 4 I admit that I withdrew &ca. My reasons were the following The subject under Debate was a Draught of a Letter to General Washington reported by a Committee in answer to one relative to the Exchange of Prisoners in which he complained of being wounded in his feelings and embarrassed by Some resolutions of Congress which appeared to him inconsistent. The Draught seemed exceptionable in many parts which tended to give pain to the General without answering any good purpose, and they were opposed by some other members and myself. The whole day until 10 at night was taken up with debate on One paragraph which was at length amended. At that late hour the members of the Committee pressed very Strongly to proceed and finish the letter before adjournment. 5 They Seemed very strenuous for carrying through the draught as reported. I was of Opinion that it ought to undergo many amendments which from that day’s debate I perceived could not be Effected without® very Strenuous Opposition. I deemed it therefore very improper to proceed when our faculties were ex hausted. Besides this General reason I had one peculiar to myself. I had been obliged to take a principle part in the Debate altho during the whole afternoon I labored under a severe fit of an Intermitting
