April 29, 1778 535 part of the resentment which I could not help feeling for such Treat ment. To the Second, I declared my sincere Concern if any thing in my Language or manner appeared not sufficiently respectful to Con gress, that my Terms were the only names I knew for the things I wanted to express, that tho’ my manner was perhaps expressive of resentment and Indignation it was plainly directed against Individ uals who had given great provocation, but that no man was more deeply impressed with a Sense of respect for Congress and I was far from intending to give Offence. But the Sentiments I delivered being still unchanged and being in my opinion Essential to the rights of the States, and of the Citizens Individually, any Concession relative to them would be a Sacrafice of those rights, and a Meanness which I hoped the Congress would not expect, and which it was impossible to bring me to. It is sufficient to hear them in their places because the charge and defence is before the ultimate Judge, but Members of Congress are or at least in my Opinion, ought to be amenable to their Constituents and the Charge and defence ought to come before them with equal authority. The Copy before the assembly is one that was laid on the table while I [awaited?] the answer, and was taken up and perused by Mr Harnet while I was reading. He kept it afterwards in posses sion. At any time upon Such an Occasion I should have deemed it my Duty to have behaved as I did in the present Instance, but I was particularly Sollicitous to pursue this matter to its utmost length for the following reason. Since the first of my attendance in Congress I perceived some Indi viduals to have an Extraordinary propensity to acts of power, and to have often urged Congress to exercise them where there was no ap parent Necessity, in such a manner as must be Contrary to the Estab lished Laws and Constitutions of the States. In very many Cases the prudence and Circumspection of Congress rendered such attempts abortive, in some a Majority have been induced to Concur, and Indi viduals have been Seized, banished or Imprisoned by Resolutions of Congress against whom Rumors were the only Testimony, and who if insnared by this powerful and uncontrollable Body must be [....] Frequent attempts have been made to prevail on Congress to take into their own Hands the Political Administration of one State, 11 and on pretence that their Institutions were defective, Power was given to a Military Officer in an other to Seize, Imprison and remove whomsoever he might Suspect, 12 under a Suspicion that their magis trates were not well affected, and over the Same State and part of two others a Power was given to a Committee of Congress to exercise the most unlimitted dictatorial Powers, 13 on a groundless Supposition of an Insurrection. 14 In short some Individauls from too much Zeal not tempered Sufficiently with wisdom and foresight, from apprehensions
