536 April 29, 1778 too lively and Judgements a little defective, from a busy Enterprising Disposition not quite enough Controll’d by caution and Circumspec tion or from some other defect of Capacity very frequently gave too much importance to trifling objects 15 and generally Suggested and urged the Exercise of acts of mere arbitrary power as remedies on every Occasion. Of late this Disposition was become more extensive, and appeared more frequently, and whoever spoke of the Internal Police or rights of the States as restraining the power of Congress was generally exposed to Sarcasm or ridicule. State Necessity was urged on all Such Occasions as Sufficient to Justify every act of power. I who am firmly persuaded that arbitrary Power has a Natural tendency to abuse, and am therefore Jealous of it in any Hands, who have marked the force and progress of precedents and have ob served that those which have happened under the direction of Vir tuous men have given Authority to Corrupt men to Violate the rights of mankind have always Considered this propensity as dangerous so far as it tended to Establish Precedents of such acts of Power exer cised by Congress as are repugnant to or Inconsistent with the pur poses of its Institution and the rights of the States. When on the present Occasion I perceived Several of the Same Individuals assuming a power to Judge and punish at discretion the representatives of the Sovereign Independent States it appeared to me very dangerous even to permit the mention of such power un disputed. If not disputed it might pass into a general Opinion that Such power existed in Congress, if carried into Effect and submitted to it would be established by precedent. I therefore determined In stantly to dispute the power and to persist so as to bring the matter to a clear decision. I insisted on the right of the States to Judge and punish their own delegates, and that Congress could do nothing but represent their Conduct. I was certain whichever way Congress de cided it would be important. If they Exercised the power, the States would perceive that it deprived them of all security in their members by their being Subjected to the arbitrary power of an assembly which is without Controll, and can be punished for no wrong, and in which they must often assert the rights of the State at every hazard, and of Course would remonstrate against it. If on the other hand, Congress should only make a representation to the State a precedent would be Established in favor of the Exclusive Jurisdiction of the State over its representatives. The Confederation being then under Consideration I hoped this matter might be Considered by the assembly before they finally Concluded their deliberations thereon, and I hoped it would clearly point out to them the propriety of Instructing particularly on that clause which declares that “freedom of speech and debate shall not be impeached or Questioned in any Court or place out of Congress.”
