538 April 29, 1778 willing to be in myself, I should deny that any freeman ought to be in, and had I had no other motive than merely this I should not have submitted to the power claimed by some Gentlemen in Congress. I hope I never shall betray the smallest right of any of my fellow Citizens to avoid any thing which power can impose on me. Lest any thing which I have here said should seem to derogate from the Virtue of the present Congress I beg leave to declare that nothing can be further from my Intention, nor do I believe any Set of men Existed who had Views more disinterestedly directed to public good, even the Individuals I mention as too much disposed to acts of power, are men of the greatest public Spirit and Integrity, and eminent for abilities. If in the particulars I mentioned they erred as in my opinion they did, I am certain they were moved by nothing but a zeal for the public Service which perhaps hurried them too fast to attend to distant Consequences, or prevented their perceiving objects in the proper point of Light. I do not pretend that I myself have never been in this predicament. I confess I am warm in my Temper, (and apt to decide in favor of bold and vigorous Measures) and feel a Zeal too which I doubt not often transports me too far. Conscious of this, (and being very atten tive to motives, and from that attention Convinced of their rectitude,) I heard every gentlemans Sentiments I believe, with Candor, and tho differing from my own doubted not their being Suggested by the same Desire of doing public Service—but I conceived it my Duty to use my own Judgement on all Occasions and I always used it because such as it was my Country Confided in it, and when it differed from other men, Integrity required that I should follow it. Thence Debate necessarily ensued but Enmity I hope never. Nothing therefore should be Imputed to Such Motives. I do not pretend that I never Con sented to, nor recommended the exercise of acts of power, every man knows that such will be always unavoidable in times of public Strug gles. But my professed Maxims are that Such should never be exer cised but so far as plain and Evident Necessity requires and on very important Occasions that whoever exercises an act of power Should not be the ultimate Judge of the Necessity but should rely on it as an excuse but not a Justification. That it should always be Exercised in such a manner as not for a precedent for future Occasions—because such should depend entirely on its own circumstances. Whenever I have recommended or agreed to acts of power I hope I have kept in view these maxims. I always opposed them on every other ground. I have thought some not quite so attentive to them, I suppose because they were not equally persuaded of their Truth. In the matter before the assembly some things appear to me not altogether reconcileable to the Idea I have given of Congress. They have Insisted on a man’s retracting his Opinions, and Censured him
