May 1, 1778 55I with letters from Paris dated as late as February 1778—a circumstance that would have made it impossible for Lovell to complain subsequently that Congress had not heard from the commissioners since May 1777. “For a discussion of this issue, see Committee Examination of John Folvcr January 12, 1778, note. 6 ’ 3 For Gov. Richard Caswell’s January 31, 1778, letter to President Laurens on the subject of Capt. John Folger’s role in the theft of dispatches from the com missioners, seeN.C. State Records, 10:178-79. “See Committee Examination of John Folger, January 12, 1778. Congress’ May 8 resolve exonerating Folger in connection with the theft of the dispatches from the commissioners, which seems to have been passed after this letter was written is in JCC, 11:482. “This date was added by Lovell to identify the letter from the commissioners referring to Letters of March 14 and Apr 9th which have never reached us,” not, as Adams assumed when he endorsed this document, the date of the post script. r New York Delegates to George Clinton Sir, York Town 30th April 1778 By Major Genl. Gates we take the Opportunity of informg. your Excellency that we hope in a few Days to transmit you some Resolu tions of Importance to the State we represent at which Time we shall write fully upon the subject. 1 At present we have to request that you will afford Genl. Gates such Assistance in his important & extensive Command as may be in your Power. We have the Honor to be with great Respect, your Excellency’s most obedient & humble Servants, Gouvr Morris Wm. Duer. RC (NN). Written by Morris and signed by Morris and Duer. The anticipated Resolutions of Importance” no doubt concerned Vermont. See Henry Laurens to George Clinton, April 20, 1778, note 2. William Henry Drayton’s Proposed Resolution That the commissioners of Congress at the Courts of France & Spain be instructed to inform those Courts respectively, that Congress are assured the King & Parliament of Great Britain intend very shortly to open a Treaty with these United States to procure a recon ciliation with that Kingdom—that Congress believe Great Britain will consent to the Independence of America, only in consequence of the most absolute compulsion—that Great Britain is inclined to
