552 May 1, 1778 sacrifice much of her claim to bind these States in all cases whatso ever—that as it is the true Interest of America to be an Independent power, she will be inclined to relinquish her Independency, only from the most absolute necessity to do so—that the strength & re sources of the two Countries are considerably diminished by the War—that these States wish to be assisted with loans of money {in gold if silver} sufficient to enable them to support the credit of their paper money—and that an annual supply of {gold if silver} money to the amount of Millions Livres & an immediate declara ¬ tion of War by France & Spain against Great Britain would enable these United States to continue the War & with the blessing of God to establish their Independence. In addition to these representations, the said Commissioners shall demand a categorical answer of France and Spain to this point. Whether or not they will grant to these United States an annual loan upon Interest of millions of Livres during the con ¬ tinuance of the war, & make an immediate declaration of War against Great Britain. MS (ScHi). In the hand of William Henry Drayton and endorsed by Henry Laurens: "Mr. Draytons Mo. 1st May—for Mr. Huntington’s.” 1 As Henry Laurens’ endorsement on the document indicates, Drayton prepared this motion this day as a substitute for Samuel Huntington’s proposed resolution on entering into peace negotiations with the British on the basis of American independence. Although Huntington probably brought his resolution to Congress’ attention as early as April 22 or 23, apparently the delegates did not formally consider it until April 30 and May 1 when they turned their attention to the issue of “the state of America with respect to foreign nations.” On May 1, ac cording to the journals, “Congress resumed consideration of the motion made yesterday,” but the entries for both dates fail to identify the motion offered or to mention that a substitute was proposed. Despite this omission, Laurens’ endorse ment on this document and his comments on the subject in his correspondence with John Laurens and Rawlins Lowndes strongly suggest that the Huntington and Drayton motions were the focus of debate on those days. Although debate on the entire matter appears to have stalled on the first when Congress ordered “that the farther consideration thereof be postponed,” it was briefly resumed the same afternoon until Congress simply resolved to appoint a committee of three “to report proper instructions to be transmitted to the com missioners of the United States at foreign courts.” In any event, the proposals of Drayton and Huntington as well as the committee's assignment were quickly over taken by events, for the following day Simeon Deane arrived in York with official texts of the treaties of alliance and commerce that had been signed at Paris in February, news of which completely altered the assumptions the delegates had been operating upon since word first reached York on April 20 that the North ministry was prepared to offer fresh terms for opening peace talks with her colonies. See JCC, 10:374-80, 411, 413-14; Samuel Huntington's Proposed Resolu tion, April 22-23; and Henry Laurens to John Laurens, April 28, and to Rawlins Lowndes, May 1, 1778. For the committee appointed “to report proper instruc- toins” to the commissioners at Paris, see Gouverneur Morris’ Draft Report on Instructions for the American Commissioners, this date.
