May 1, 1778 553 Henry Laurens to Matthew Clarkson Sir, York Town 1st May 1778 Immediately upon receipt of your favor of the 28th Ulto. which reached me yesterday afternoon I presented it to Congress, but the business then before the House excluded every other consideration, I will endeavor to call their attention this Morning to your representa tion but as I am doubtful of success I will not detain your Messenger. In the mean time you may receive as my single opinion Sir that an augmentation to your Salary will be made, I am of this sentiment be cause I think it just. You shall hear from me when I am furnished with subject for writing. 1 I beg Sir you will present my Compliments to your Coadjutor Majr Clarke & believe me to be, With great regard, Sir, Your obedient hum st. Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (MHi). ’See Laurens to Clarkson, May 6, 1778. ' Henry Laurens to George Galphin My Dear Sir, 1st May 1778. I have barely time to tell you I am indebted for several of your favors, not enough to admit of answering them properly—this I will endeavor to do in a few days 1 —in the meantime let me present you with papers which accompany this & which have afforded much satis faction in this part of the Union. I trust the whole will be as well pleased. We hourly expect confirmatory accounts of a Treaty between France &: the United States of America by which our Sovereignty & Independence are acknowledged & guaranteed. This I hope will operate to good effect upon the Savages of all Colours who are at this time attempting to ravage & distress us a little more in front & rear. If War is closed between France & England which is inevitable, the British Troops may be wanted for defending their Islands—in this Case their worthy friends the Indians will be left in an unpleasing Situation. I am glad to find those near our Country are so well dis posed; On the frontiers of Virginia, this state & New York they are very troublesome. God bless you, Sir, I am with great regard LB (ScHi). 1 No further letters from Laurens to Galphin, a Continental Indian commis sioner in South Carolina, have been found.
