554 May 1, 1778 Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes Sir 1 1st May 1778. No less than seventeen days have elapsed since I had the honor of receiving Your Excellency’s Letter of the 16th March importing an extract from the Journals of Assembly of the 5th, yet within this time I have not found a proper space of one moment for addressing Congress on the subject of Indian Trade. 2 Congress have been closely engaged on one branch of a proposed arrangement of the Army, which has been long pending. The first article on the tapis, an half pay establishment for Officers who shall continue in the Army to the end of the War having met such opposi tion, has engrossed, with very little exception, our time for a Month past. This subject is at present suspended, for reasons which if I judge truly, are not assigned. The supporters of the measure perceive danger of losing the question should it be put at this time when there are only ten States on the floor & therefore wait to avail themselves of the voices of two in three which are daily expected 3 —but this grand business is succeeded by another said to be equally momentous & to which every other consideration must give place, the state of our affairs at foreign Courts. The reading Letters as a prelim[in]ary step employed completely the six hour session of yesterday. I have however introduced my Colleague Mr. Chf. Justice Drayton into the Com mittee of Indian affairs 4 & will enjoin him to collect the Committee & press for a consideration of the Resolve of Assembly alluded to above, thence a Report will follow & be properly inducted to Con gress—& I have no doubt in my own mind of obtaining all that our State expects relative to the expence of supporting an Indian Trade, unless our late acquisition of Land from the Cherokee people should be faintly urged in bar. I know some Gentlemen veiw that circum stance with a jealous eye, be this as it may, I think a demand so well grounded & which may be well supported by applicable precedents with which our Journals abound can suffer but slightly from opposi tion. 5 Two days ago Congress completed a Declaratory Invitation to foreign Officers & Soldiers in the service of the King of Great Britain to quit such service & settle in these States a Copy of which I will endeavor to lay before Your Excellency, 6 I like the scheme in general, my objection was to the last Clause. 7 Maryland, Rhode Island & New Jersey peremptorily refuse to bear any part of expence which may arise from the purchase or laying out the intended Grants of Land. New York & Virginia meaning the Delegates from these States, promised on behalf of their constituents to supply large quantities, & it was intimated that the Carolinas & Georgia might well make up the deficiency. Whatever were my sentiments respecting the policy of
