May 1, 1778 555 the measure, I felt a repugnance to binding my Country by any engagements exceeding the powers vested in me & which she might for this & other obvious reasons refuse to confirm, hence I shall be found upon Record, No. All the States had for many Months been exceedingly remiss in Representation in Congress. Fear I believe had operated upon many minds, partly of the excessive expence attending very bad fare in this Town 8c partly of a sudden surprize by the Enemy. Certainly had Sir William Howe been a Man of enterprize he might have possessed himself of Congress. This delinquency has cost the Union Millions of Dollars. The days lengthen, the weather mends, the Army is receiving reinforcements 8c Delegates drop in. We have lately been joined by some very able Men 8c shew upon the floor about 25—New Hamp shire, Delaware 8c No. Carolina empty—New Jersey 8c Rhode Island one Delegate—the important Crisis to which we are now verging may possibly rouse the deficient States. 8 North River which had been left in a defenseless State from the time Sir H. Clinton had rendred it so will in the course of half this Month with permission of the Enemy be secured—but I tremble every arrival of a Messenger from that quarter with apprehensions of hearing of the destruction of our embryo works, of our Stores 8c Mag azines at Albany 8c that our communication with the Eastern States [is] cut off—all this danger 8c an hundred other Evils are chargeable to deficiency of Representation. General Gates will proceed to Mor row to Valley forge Camp, there join a grand Council for planning the operations of the rising Campaign, thence proceed to Fish Kill 8c Albany 8c take upon him the Command of the whole Northern or middle department—with power to call for the Militia from New York 8c the Eastern States—if our affairs remain uninterupted when he arrives, all will be well. The printed papers which I shall send within the present Inclosure will shew your Excellency a late fruitless attempt for settling a Cartel 8c the sentiments of Congress on Lord North’s speech of the 19th Febry 8c his Draughts of Conciliatory Bills—an Insolent Letter from the Quondam Governor Tryon to General Washington 8c the Gen eral’s modest reply will accompany them. Notwithstanding the sep- eration of the Commissioners who had assembled at New Town an Exchange of prisoners is in motion conducted by the Commissaries on each side. General Lee has been exchanged for General Prescot, 8c there are many other instances but the work is slow 8c not satisfactory. Besides from a fatal negligence in our public Officers we have lost an amazing number of prisoners. I have the best authority for saying near two Thousand have escaped or been winked at, a circumstance tending to prove our Riches in that branch, when it is considered that we have still a very large balance of Rank 8c file.
