May 1, 1778 559 LB (ScHi). 1 These probably included the same “printed papers” on Congress’ response to Lord Norths Conciliatory Bill and General Washington’s recent dealings with General Howe and Governor Tryon that Laurens described in his letter of this date to Rawlins Lowndes. Henry Laurens to Andrew Williamson Dear Colonel, 1st May 1778. The papers which I send inclosed with this have afforded much satisfaction in this part of America, I trust the whole Union will be as well pleased with them as we are. You may expect very soon after this reaches you to receive authen tic accounts that France has confirmed a Treaty with these States honourable & beneficial to us, & that particularly Spain & Prussia will follow France in the acknowledgement of our Sovereignty & Inde pendence. This will give us a moment of respite. The thousand things I have to do & the Thousand interruptions I am exposed to, allow me only time to add my Compliments to Mrs. Williamson & assur ances of continuing with very great Regard. LB (ScHi). Gouverneur Morris’ Draft Report on Instructions for the American Commissioners [May 1, 1778] 1 It is proposed to adopt the Motion from Connecticut 2 and then to pass the following Resolution, viz. Resolved. That a Letter be written to the Commrs. by the Committee of Correspondence inclosing the foregoing Resolutions & also the Report of the Committee upon the Genls. Letter containing the Draft of two Bills &ca. containing the Reasons for the said Report & Resolution 3 viz. That the Inhabitants of the united States having suffered greatly by the War become daily more desirous of terminating it. That the Resources of the States being greatly exhausted by their Exertions as well as by the many Disorders attendant upon Great Revolutions which are scarce conceivable by those who administer established Governments the Difficulty of prosecuting the War in creases in Proportion to its Continuance. That the Derangement of our Finances & the consequent Deprecia tion of our Currency render a Peace with G Britain not only eligible but necessary.
