560 May 1, 1778 And That the manifest Advantages which will arise from an Alli ance with the Greatest naval Power on Earth over and above those which Peace would in itself produce have prompted us to smoothe the Way to so desirable a Purpose. That the said Committee do further inform the said Commrs. That Congress conceive it to be the true Interest of America. To guarantee to the several European Powers their Possessions in the Islands the same being a Pledge in the Hand of this Continent for the Security of their Subjects in every Part of the World & also for the free Trade to those Islands. To give equal Privileges to all Persons fishing on their Shores Reserving to them the Determination of Disputes arising on that Subject between foreign Powers. open the Ports of America to the Ships of all Nations freighted with the Produce & Manufactures of the respective Countries they belong to except such as may shut their Ports to the Subjects of America, & To be at Peace with all the World & derive Accessions of Wealth & Subjects from the various Commotions of other States. That the said Committee do further inform the said Commrs. That Notwithstanding the Situation of this Country and its evident Interests Congress are determined faithfully to adhere to such Tieaties as may on their Part have been entered into consistent with the Instructions heretofore given or any of them. That if no Treaty is yet made by them they are to govern them selves according to Circumstances being assured that the British Force now in America is not adequate to the Purpose of subduing if and that if such Loans or Subsidies can be procured in Europe as to establish the Value of our Paper Emissions of Money there is no Doubt but that we can still continue the Conflict notwithstanding the Disadvantages before enumerated. Wherefore they shall propose & accede to such Terms within the Line of their former Instructions as shall upon the whole appear to them most conducive to the Interests of these united States & That if War should be declard against Britain by any of the greater Powers of Europe they are immediately to take Advantage of such favorable Circumstance and borrow all the Money in their Power in Holland & keep the same to answer the Drafts or other Orders of Congress. MS (NNC). In the hand of Gouverneur Morris. ' Morris apparently drafted this document as a result of his appointment this this day, with Richard Henry Lee and Roger Sherman, to a committee that was charged “to report proper instructions to be transmitted to the commissioners of the United States at foreign courts.” JCC, 10:414. For the circumstances leading to the appointment of this committee, which reflected the concerns of some delegates
