562 May 1, 1778 Nathaniel Scudder to Joseph Scudder My Dear Son, York Town May 1. 1778 As I suppose you are now at home with your Honored Daddy & Mama, I wish you to use every Endeavour to make them and your Brothers & Sisters comfortable and happy; and at the same Time to improve your Vacation in such a Way as will prove advantageous to your own Education, and honorable to you in Point of Behavior among your Friends & Acquaintances. Carefully avoid the Allurements of every Vice, and shun indus triously the Temptations of youth. Tread diligently in the Paths of Virtue, & strive above all to obtain, through the Merits of your Redeemer, the inestimable Blessings of true Godliness & undefiled Religion. A Scene is opening, my Dear Child, in this Country for the greatest imaginable Display of Talents and Education, and a Young Man with your Capacity, Abilities and Learning can’t fail under God, if he sets out right, of making a Figure in public Life on the great Stage of this new World. Indeed I cannot help contemplating my Sons as shining in future in some of the most splendid Departments of this mighty rising American Empire, the Glory of the western World— and greatly eclipsing their Father in every civil Accomplishment. This is surely in their Power, since they now may improve themselves designedly for this Purpose; whereas he from this amazing Change in human Affairs was unexpectedly & reluctantly, as well as unprepar edly and rapidly pushed from Stage to Stage to the most important Seat he now has the Honor to fill, and to which he finds himself Alas, but too unequal. But how will it ring my Heart, if by any false Step, if by any fatal vicious Indulgence these my fond Hopes shall be dis appointed? Then indeed will my grey Hairs descend with Sorrow, 8c perhaps a speedy Pace, to the Grave. O my Son, let it be your daily 8c nightly prayer to be delivered from every Evil & every Temptation, and to be prepared for the whole will & Pleasure of God your Creator, Preserver and constant Benefactor. Love 8c Respects to all, 8c am my Dear Son, your affectionate & Indulgent Father, Nathl Scudder RC (NjHi). Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, York Town May 1st. 1778 I arrived here the 24th of last month. I dont know of any thing very material that has passed in Congress Since Col. Dyer left it. Sev-
