568 May 2, 1778 Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, York Town 2 May 1778 I have wrote to you one Letter since that which you reed, by Brown. 1 I then told you that I was well, and by the Blessing of God I continue to injoy good Health. I have not heard from you, nor reed, any Letters from my Freinds since yours of the 6t of April. I expect that Mr. Adams will be here by the latter end of this Month. As soon as he comes I shall Return. Nothing Material has occurred since my last. It is said and it is probably true that Genl. Amherst, Admiral Keppell and Genl. Murray are Appointed to Negotiate upon the Plan proposed by Ld. North—and it is Reported that Ms Amherst and Keppel are Arrived at Philadelphia. There is no doubt but that Genl. Howe has or is going to England. My Opinion is that the Veiws of the British Administration are to delude and endeavour to divide Altho’ I do not perceive that any Attempts of this Kind have any Effect. A false forged Resolution of Congress has lately been pub lished both in Philadelphia and N York, setting forth an order to Genl. Washington to retain in his Army till the end of the War all Soldiers however inlisted or brot. into Service and this forged Resolu tion they take much Pain to spread in the Country. 2 We are too much uninformed as to European Affairs. But I trust that will not long be the Case. My own Situation here is comfortable—so that you will suffer no Concern on my Account. Take Care of your Health and Banish Care. Every Thing I trust will operate for the best. God who takes Care of and Protects Nations, will take Care of this People and give us still farther and greater Occasions to rejoice in his Goodness. My Love to my Children and Freinds. I am your’s, with the greatest Affection Oliver Wolcott P.S. Genl. Gates went yesterday to Head Quarters and from thence proceeds to Hudsons River. The Lottery began to draw yesterday in this Town, it will finish in four Weeks. I am not able to congratulate you upon any of the Familys having made their Fortune as yet, but I have or rather perhaps ought to Wish that it might be so, Altho I cannot say that I have much sensation in Regard to this Matter. How ever I wish that when Brown Returns you will inclose the Tickets. The small Prizes will be paid off in the several States, and perhaps those which are to be paid by Certificates. I beleive it will be so but this Matter is not yet settled. 3 RC (CtHi). . , ifhe last letter from Wolcott to his wife that messenger Jesse Brown carried from York to Connecticut is dated April 14, 1778. Since Brown’s departure from York on April 21 Wolcott had also written to Laura on April 25. 2 See Henry Laurens to George Washington, April 24, 1778, note 7. 3 For Congress’ May 2 resolves regarding the payment of lottery prizes, see JCC, 11:415-16.
