May 2, 1778 569 John Banister to Theodorick Bland, Jr. Dear Sir. 1 York 3d May 1778. By an Express, of yesterday, sent by the.board of War, I wrote Mr. Davis all the News preceding that date. 2 Before he got away a Mes senger arrived from France charged with the most important Papers from our Commissioners at Paris containing a Treaty of alliance, and a Treaty of alliance and Commerce, between the Court of France and America. By these Treaties our Independence is made a grand Object on the Part of the King of France who has with great liberality that he takes no advantage of the present Situation of the States, but has made the same Treaty with them as if they had been in the most flourishing Prosperity. The Treaty which was concluded & signed the 6th of Feby. guar antees to America all her Possessions in America, together with Bermudas. If England declares War against France or occasions a War by at tempts to obstruct her Commerce, we are to make common Cause with her & join her forces &: Councils. The States guarantee to France all her Possessions in America. Ext. of D. Franklin’s letter. 3 28 Feby. We have found the greatest cordiality in this Court and that no advantage has been taken of our difficulties to obtain hard Terms of us, but such has been the King’s magnanimity and good ness, that he has proposed none we might not have agreed to in a State of full Prosperity and established Power. The Principle laid down in the Plan of the Treaty, being as declared in the Preamble, “The most perfect equality &: Reciprocity,” the Priviledges in Trade are mutual, and none are given to France but what we are at Liberty to grant to any other Nation. When we mention the good Will of this Nation to our Cause we may add that of all Europe, which hav ing been offended by the Pride and Insolence of Britain wishes to see its Power diminished. The Preparations for war are carried on with immense Activity and it is very soon expected. When this last Event shall take Place, America will be in a Situation to prosecute the War with Ease to herself, but at present the utmost Exertions should be made in opposition to those of G. Britain, which will be thro Rage & disappointment as great as her utmost ability in Men & Resource will admit; and it would be happy if the People at large could be persuaded that one vigorous Effort would restore them to what they so ardently wish, a State of perfect Tranquility, which with established Independence. The present Treaties, Advantageous as they are, have no immediate operation on our military Conflict with G. Britain, but promises eventually assistance, by G. Britain’s being
