570 May 2, 1778 provoked to a declaration of War, or drawing on one by an Interrup tion of the Commerce of France. I am your affect. Friend &[...] J Banister. [P.S.] Let your Father & Mr. Davis have this News as soon as possible. I am in a low State of Health being [. . .] reduced since I saw you, by frequent Retu[rns of a] disorder in my Bowells, greatly aggravated] by the Limestone Water of this Place. RC (ViHi). 1 Theodorick Bland, the brother of Banister’s late wife Elizabeth, was undoubt edly the recipient of this letter, which was found among Bland’s papers in the early 19th century and printed in Theodorick Bland, The Bland Papers, ed. Charles Campbell, 2 vols. (Petersburg, Va.: Edmund 8c Julian C. Ruffin, 1840), 1:84-85. At this time Colonel Bland was in Virginia procuring horses and arms and recruiting men for the Continental cavalry. For General Washington’s instruc tions to Bland, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:28-29, 274-75, 339-40. 2 Not found. 3 The next four sentences were extracted from the American commissioners’ February 8, not 28, letter to the Committee for Foreign Affairs, which is in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:490-91. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dear Papa, Sunday 3d May 1778 Yesterday evening arrived here Mr. Dean brother to Mr. Silas Dean, with the Treaty of Alliance 8c commerce Signed the 6th of February by our Deputies at Paris, 8c Monsr. Gerard commissionated for that purpose. This treaty is bottomed on principles of the most liberal, wise, 8c generous Policy; the only thing required of us, is the main- tainance of our Independance. If France should be involved in the war, 8c acquired at the treaty of peace any Islands in the West Indies, we are to guarantee the possession of those 8c their present Islands. It is not even required of us to continue the war (provided we make peace on the footing of independant States) even if France should be obliged to continue the war if She should be engaged in one in conse quence of this alliance formed with us. Our latest letters from our Deputies at Paris are of the 8th March. 1 They promise us immediate 8c considerable supplies of clothing, arms 8cc. It is not expected that the military stores already supplied us are to be paid for. The King of Prussia has prevented the German mer cenaries from coming over, so that G B will receive few or no soldiers from that quarter; her funds are fallen 10 per Cent. In short, by our Agent’s letters it appears that all the great Powers of Europe are favourably disposed towards us. I sincerely rejoice with you on this happy prospect of our affairs.
