May 2, 1778 571 Mr. Dean was brought over by a French frigate 8c landed in Canso Bay. I wrote to you 8c Molly by Mr. Digges. I shall write to you again by Tuesday post. My love to Molly, Mrs. Darnell 8c the little ones. God grant you a continuance of health. I am, Yr. affectionate Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton RC (MdHi). 1 Actually February 28, a correction Carroll made in his letter to his father the next day. Samuel Chase to Thomas Johnson My Dear sir Yorktown Sunday morning, May 3d. 1778 On Yesterday afternoon arrived here from France, Mr. Simeon Dean (Brother to the Commissioner) with Despatches to Congress from our Commissioners, to the 28 February. On the 6th of February two Treaties were concluded and sign’d by Monsr. Jerard Plenepotentiary appointed by his most Christian Majesty on the 30th January preceding for that purpose, and by our Commissioners, B Franklin, S Deane, 8c A Lee Esqrs. The first is a Treaty of Amity ir Commerce on the plan proposed by Congress and almost in the words of it. The second is a Treaty of Alliance of Amity and Commerce. I cannot better inform you of the substance of these Treaties than in the words of the Commissioners. “If England de clares War against France, or occasions a War by attempts to hinder her Commerce, we shall then make a common Cause of it 8c join our Forces 8c our Councils. The grand aim of the Treaty is declared to be “establish the Liberty, Sovereignty and Independency, absolute and unlimited of the United States, as well in matters of Government as Commerce and this is guarranted to us by France together with all the Countries we possess, or shall possess at the conclusion of the war; in return for which the states Guarrantee to France all its pos sessions in America. We have found the greatest cordiality in this Court, and that no advantage has been taken of our present diffi culties to obtain hard terms from us, but such has been the Kings Magnanimity 8c Goodness, that he has proposed none which we might not readily have agreed to in a state of full prosperity and established power. The Principal laid down as the basis of the Treaty being as declared in the preamble “The most perfect Equality [and] Recepro- city; the priviledges in Trade 8cc. are mutual 8c none are given to France but what we are at liberty to grant to any other Nation.” By the Second Treaty France has renounced for ever possession to any part of the Continent lately or now in the possession of Great Britain, or acceded to her by the Treaty of Paris 8c to the Island of Bermuda.
