May 2, 1778 572 The account of General Burgoine’s defeat was received in Paris the beginning of Decemr. Our Commissioners immediately pressed for the Conclusion of the Treaty, and a Council was called the 12th in which it was decided to acknowledge and support our Independancy. Our Commissioners are of opinion “That the Treaty with France will certainly be followed by the whole house of Bourbon, and prob ably by Holland. The Preparations for war Continue daily, & France is determined to protect her Commerce with you.” The King of Prussia is well disposed towards you 8c on application prevented the Hesse & Hanau Troops from passing thro’ his Dominions 8c now waits the Measures of France. Very considerable supplies sailed from France in February under Convoy, and may be hourly expected. Mr. Carmichael is on board. I do most cordially and sincerely congratulate you on this most important Intelligence. America has now taken her rank among the Nations 8c has it in her power to secure her Liberty 8c Independance. Let us be grateful to our God for this singular unmerited iMark of his favour 8c protection and continue to exert every Means in our power to support the war; this can only be effectually done by speedy and liberal Loans of Money to the Continent and a respectable Army. Congress some time past recommended that subscriptions should be opened in each County. I am 8cc. Sami Chase Tr (MdAA). William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir, York Town May 3d. 1778. I take this earliest opportunity to inform your excellency that a Messenger arrived here yesterday P.M. from France, with dispatches, containing among other Things a copy of the Treaties of Alliance and of Amity and Commerce entered into between the Court of France and our Commissioners; which will without doubt be ratified by Congress. The former hath the protection and support of the Independency of these States for its basis, and the latter is founded in perfect equal ity and reciprocity. If War should be commenced by Great Britain agst France it is to be made a common cause. The Independency of these States is to be supported. If any particular enterprize should be undertaken we are to join and act in concert. No truce to be made without the consent of each, unless our Inde pendency is absolutely acknowledged.
