May 3, 1778 573 France guarantees our Independency, and all we possess or shall possess at the conclusion of the war and we guarantee to France her Possessions in America. Admission of other Nations to equal advantages in Commerce. These are imperfect minutes of some of the principle heads of the treaties as I took them at the Table last evening while they were reading. Hereafter when the treaties shall be ratified copies of them will be transmitted to the several states. The Letters from the commissioners show a good disposition in the powers of Europe towards us. Prussia shows a disposition to share in our commerce; but will not open her ports to our privateers until the arrangement of Inde pendency shall be made. The Ambassador of the Duke of Tuscany hath given our commis sioner favorable expectations from his Court. Portugal will accede to the family compact. The House of Bourbon & all’ the powers of Europe will soon acknowledge our Independency. We are desired to forget any animosities we may formerly have enter tained against France, & to cultivate a friendship for her. These minutes were made as the other and must of course be very imperfect also. The Treaties of Alliance &c were signed the 6th of February; and display a spirit of magnanimity and a soundness of policy scarcely to be parallelled. Instead of pursuing that narrow policy which regards only the present moment and present Interest, and nobly disdaining to take an advantage of our situation, France hath, with but a small variation, acceded to our own proposals, thereby doubtless intending to bind us to them by the indissoluble Ties of affection & Gratitude. It is reported that Genl. Amherst and Admiral Keppel are arrived at Philadelphia; but by an officer whom I saw this morning, and who came directly from Camp it seems to be only a report. Commissioners are daily expected from Britain with proposals for a reconciliation. Congress will abide by their Independency at all events, and I have no doubt but that it will be acknowledged this Campaign even by Britain herself, provided we bring into the field, a respectable Army. She is reduced to the greatest straits. From Germany She cannot col lect recruits for their stipulated Troops, From her own Island but few can be drawn. Her credit is sunk in Holland, and her Stocks are fallen. France hath a large body of troops in Normandy and Bretagne, her Navy in good preparation and is determined to protect her com merce to America. She waits only for Britain to strike the first blow. Rather than do this it is my humble opinion that if our people will but step forth this campaign as I have said before She will acknowl edge our Independency, and be contented with that part of our com merce which it may suit us to give her.
