May 3, 1778 577 POSTSCRIPT to the Pennsylvania Gazette of May 2, 1778 i Printed by Hall and Sellers. Y O R K - t O W N, May 4. On Saturday laji SIMEON DEANE, Efq; arrived at Con- grefs, exprefa from the American Plenipotentiaries at the Court Of France, an A delivered bit Difpatcbes to hrrft*- ariiat&tbe I'rejidenl. The important Contents are, tc a Correfpondent, thus communicated. HE news of the defeat and captivity of General Burgoyne were received in France the beginning of December, with as much joy as if a victory by thetr own troops had been announced. Our Plenipoten tiaries took this opportunity again to attrad the attention of the Court of France to the objed of their negotiation. On the j6tb, Monfieur Girard, R-<yal Syndic of Straf- burgh, and Secretary of his Majefty’s Council of State, waited upon our Plenipotentiaries, and informed them, by order of the King, ' ‘ That after long and full confidcr- ation of our affairs and proportions in Council, it was de cided, and his Majefty was determined to acknowledge our Independence, and make a Treaty with us of Amity and Commerce. That in tins treaty, no advantage would be taken of our prefent fittialion to obtain terms from us, which otherwife would not be convenient for us to agree to, his Majefty defiring that the treaty, once made, fhould be durable, and our amity fubfilt for ever, which could not be exptded, if each nation did not find its In- tereft in the continuance as well as in the commencement of it. It was therefore his intention, that the terms of the treaty fhould be fuch, as we might be willing to agree to if our ftatc had been long cftabTilhed, and in the ful- nefs of ftrength and power, and fuch as we fhould ap prove of when that time Ihould come. That his Majefty was fixed in his determination, not only to acknowledge, but to fupport our Independence by every means in his power. That in doing this, he might prooably be foon Sed in war, with all the expences, rifque and damage y attending it; yet he Ihould not exped any com- penfation from us on that account, nor pretend that he aded wholly for our fakes, lince, befides his real good will to us and our caufe, it was manifcftly the intcreft of France, that the power of England ihould be diminlfhed by our reparation from it. He fhould, moreover, not fo much as infift, that, if he engaged in the war with En gland on our account, we Ihould not make a feparate peace for ourfelves, whenever good and advantageous terms were offered to us. The only condition he fhould require and rely on would be this, that nue, in no peace to be made vsith England, fboidd give up our Independence, and return to the obedience of that government.” That upon thefe principles, by virtue of full powers by the King of France to Monfieur Girard, Royal Syndic of the City of Strafburgh, and Secretary of nis Majefty’s Council of State, dated the 30th of January, 1778, this Mtnifter, with our Plenipotentiaries, figned at Paris, on bhe 6th of February, a Treaty of Alliance and Commerce l>etween the Crown of France and the United States of America, almoft in the very terms in which the American Plenipotentiaries had been inftruded by Congrcfs. In the Treaty of Alliance, the following articles are con- fpicuous. “ Article I. If war Ihould break out between France and Great-Britain, during the continuance of the prefent war between the United States and England, his Majefty and the United States Ihall make it a common caufe, and aid each other mutually with their good offices, their councils, .and their forces, according to the exigence of conjunctures, as becomes good and faithful allies.” “ Article II. The effcntial and direft end of the pre fent defenfive alliance is, to maintain effedually the Liber ty, Sovereignty and Independence, abfolute and unlimited, of the faid United States, as well in matters of government as of commerce.” “ Article VI. The Moft Chriftian King renounces for ever the poffeffion of the Ifland of Bermuda, at well at of any part of the continent of North-America, which before the treaty of Paris in 1763, or in virtue ot that treaty, were acknowledged to belong to the Crown of Grcat-Britain, or to the United States, heretofore called Britilh Colonies, or which are at thidime, or have lately be-n, under the power of the King and Crown of Great- Britain.” The Treaty of Commerce ftands upon the broad balls of equality; and, confidering the eftablifbed great power of France, and the infancy of the United States, is an ad without parallel. In a word, the fentiments deli vered on the r6th of December by Mouf. Girard, by or- ? der of the King of France, are Icntiinents rarely enter-* tained by Princes, and which, together with thefe equal treaties, muft rank him, not only among the greateft Mo narchs of France, hut in hiftory. The Independence of America is a favourite objed with all thofe powers of Europe, who entertain commercial views.—With refptd to the acknowledgment of our In dependence, they have waited the example of France, and will now be determined in our favour by her coodud. ' The Emperor, Spain and Pruffia-are determined to fup port us. On the 6th of November laft the Pruffian Milli ner wrote in the following fjerms to one of our Plenipo tentiaries, “ As to the rr«cforcements of troops which Great-Britain may receive worn other powers of Europe ' for the next campaign, I can allure you, Sir, that your Nation has aothing to fear from Ruffia or Denmark; and i that even Germany will not furnilh but fome hundred men which the Duke of Brunfwick, the Landgrave of Heffe, and the Margrave of Anfpach, in conformity to their treaties, cannot but fend annually, to recruit the troops which thofe Princes hold in America in the pay of England. It is with fincere fatisfadion that 1 give you this agreeable information.”—The King of Pruffia would not allow the troops of Heffe and Hanau, in Britilh pay, to pafs through his dominions,—he has promifed to bc^ the fecond Power in Europe to acknowledge the Inde pendence of America. The American prifoners In England were treated with fuch inhumanity, as induced our Plenipotentiaries to write to Lord North on the ftihjed; and to employ a » gentleman of rank in London to relieve their diftrefles. The Britilh government thereupon relaxed their feveri- ties. The friends of America in London called a meet ing on the 24th of December, 1777, to colled fubferip- tions for the relief of American prifoners, and on the 5th of January they colleded £ 4677: 6 ; 6 fterling for that purpofe. Among the fubferibers Band the names of Marquis of Rockingham, Marquis of Granby, Earl Shelburne, Earl Abingdon, Lord Chohnonddy, Vifeount Middleton, Vifcountefs Middleton, Sir George Saville, Hon. Thomas Townfliend, Hon. Thomas Townfhend, junior, Hon. Thomas Walpole, befides many Aldermen and Gentlemen of the firft diftindicn. Onr Plenipoten tiaries affure us that Britain, failing in this campaign, cannot poffibly make another in America, fo low are her finances reduced, fo ruined is her credit abroad, and fo difficult is it for her to procure men at home. That the greateft preparations of war were making in all parts of France. That near 50,000 French troops were adnally marched into Normandy and Brittany; and that the navy of France and Spain now confifted of 170 fail ready for « fea. ' Thefe important advices were brought over in Le Sen- fible, Monl. Marignie, Commander, a Royal Frigate of France, of 28 twelve-pounders and 300 men. She left Breft on the 8th of March, and after a paffage of 15 days arrived at Cafco-Bay, from whence Ihe failed on he r return, after two days ftay to take in water. Franco-American Treaties of Alliance and Commerce
