May 3, 1778 579 lishing this broadside. See Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr., May 4; and Laurens’ letters to William Smith and to Washington, May 5, 1778. 'The secret article dealt with the contingency of Spain’s accession to the Franco- American alliance. JCC, 11:454-55. ’ Laurens noted in his private letter book that on May 4 he wrote Gervais “A short Letter recommending Mr. Curson.” Laurens Papers, ScHi. The letter itself has not been found. Henry Laurens to Baron de Kalb Dear General 3d May 1778. The arrival of Mr. Simeon Deane at York Town & the Intelligence which he imported were circumstances more agreeable than an ac count of landing even the Manchester Volunteers would have been. The Act of Congress of the 22d April Subjoined to Lord North's Letter &c shews the firmness of the people on this Side 8c will mark out a new departure for the British Commissioners arrive when they may. If France shall succeed in her vision of seperating America from Great Britain without involving herself in a Long War & ’tis possible by the aid of Allies she may do so, the stroke of politics will blaze in history. Inclosed Sir you will find a compilation of the Intelligence we have received, tis possible I mean probable the treaty will be ratified in a few days. The Inclosed paper will answer your enquiry con cerning the frigate. I have the honour to be 1 LB (ScHi). 1 This day Laurens also wrote a brief letter to Joseph Kershaw of Camden, S.C., acknowledging receipt of a letter from Kershaw “concerning the Robberies which the Waggoner is said to have committed on Baron de Kalbs Trunks.” Laurens Papers, ScHi. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Sir, 3d May 1778 I had the honour of addressing a few apologetic lines to Your Excellency the 27th April & was exceedingly mortified when I learned that Monsieur Your Excellency’s Valet had left York without my knowledge. I should certainly have repeated my respects by his hand. Let me at the same time confess I had not intended to have troubled Your Excellency this Morning, if I had not been called upon by the pleasure of forwarding with all possible dispatch four Letters received
