580 May 3, 1778 at 10 oClock last Night from France. The largest of these appears to have been made free with on the Road but whether the fact be so or not is uncertain, all the Letters having been carelessly sent 400 Miles on Horse back in a Canvas Bag were much rubb’d & some of them without Covers, the Letter I allude to was nearly in that condi tion when I joined the fractured parts by a bit of Wax. I have before me Your Excellencys favor of the 26th April, 1 to which I must particularly reply & in such manner as I trust will be satisfactory to Your Excellency. ’Tis true I had not quite forgot the Money which I had the honour of advancing & for a reason of some weight, my shattered fortunes will keep me in remembrance of events which in these hard days are important. But no anxiety dwelt in my breast concerning the time or the manner in which a reimbursement was to be made. Let these be as shall be most convenient to your self in Bills of Exchange or simple paper Dollars. I neither take nor attempt advantages of this nature when I advanced the Money we are speaking of, it was done as a convenience to the Marquis delafayette to whom as an American I hold myself indebted for all the conveniences & all the services, & all the respects & devoirs & more than all, in my power. Hence Dear Marquis order the Money to be repaid as you please, but yet I wish to be near Your Excellency for half an hour on this same Money score, which is not so well understood by every Man at one Age as at another & there are in the World who deem it legal prize to convert a little of the Cash of a Rich Young Nobleman to their own use. Hints of this kind are better to be known than talked of & I know my Dear Sir you will receive this as it is intended. Your Excellency’s Accounts for Money advanced for public service are so exceedingly clever as to convince me they are not the operation of a person who had seen above seven years transaction in a Mer chants Counting House, in a word I do not know what to make of them but I will catch half an hour one day this Week & attempt some arrangement. 1 Our Courier from France left that Kingdom the Sth March, he says every face & every thing from Paris to Brest indicated an’im mediate War with England. If your Excellency learns from the dispatches which I have now the honor of transmitting any thing more Interesting than the signing of Treaties of Alliance & Commerce at Versailles between that Court & the United States of America a communication of such intimations as are proper will be extremely acceptable. There is somewhere afloat between France & this Country a squad ron of 4 64, 4 28 Gun ships & several Armed American Vessels con voying divers ships laden with Clothing, Warlike Stores &ca &ca for
