May 3, 1778 581 American service. I hope we shall soon hear of their arrival at Boston or Portsmouth. Permit me Noble Marquis to repeat that I continue to be with the highest Esteem & Regard LB (ScHi). 1 Lafayette’s letter is in Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 2:39. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Sir, 3d May 1778. An hour after I had dispatched my trouble of this Mornings date by McClosky I was honoured with both your favors of the 1st Inst. 1 Your Excellency will perceive from the former Epistle as well as by the inclosed compilation which I have taken some pains to pro cure, that I am not quite unfeeling to the good News from the other side the Atlantic. Let other people fire feu de joy, 2 I rejoice as heartily as any of them 8c drudge on, here have I been sitting from sun rise this Morn ing till now past 11 oClock at Night, except when Miss Kitty came in about half an hour ago, I rose to tell her she was very pretty 8c to give the best assurance in my power of my sincerity. Dear Marquis your Trunks 8c every of your Commands are welcome to me, but I have not seen your Trunks. Monsieur Francy asked me some questions to day about Bills of Exchange which he is to receive from Marquis delafayette. I could only say “whatever you promised 8c engaged to do, comply with, there is no danger in this mode of proceeding.” He was not very explicit 8c I could not form opinions without knowing both sides of the question. Dear Sir I must beg leave to wish your Excellency good Night, Major Brice has promised to call on me very early 8c to be in Camp tomorrow Night, if he does not appear at 6 oClock I’ll send for him. If these papers are good for any thing the sooner they get to the Army 8c into the Enemy’s Army too, the better. I have the honour to be [P.S.] What would your Excellency have me to do respecting Monsr. Capitaine, he intimates that he is going on some surveying 8c Engi neering work on the Susquehana. LB (ScHi). 1 Lafayette’s May 1 letters to Laurens are in Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 2:40-43. a In one of the May 1 letters cited above, Lafayette had expressed the wish that “a grand, noisy feu de joy will be ordered” to celebrate the French alliance. Ibid.,
