May 3, 1778 583 Henry Laurens to John Laurens York Town, 3 May 1778 very near the 4th. From 5 A.M. to 12 Mid N. makes 19 hours—deduct i/ 2 at Breakfast. 1 at dinner—H/ 2 or 2 visits—16 hours writing would My Dear sir. make some younger people weary. I writ to you this Morning by McKlosky, being of opinion that a general Account tolerably well digested of our recent intelligence from France would be acceptable & might be made useful. 1 intreated Mr Drayton to compile for me the inclosed. If it be in earnest the French will consent to our making an advantageous Peace with Britain, that Court has no wish to go to War & will not, but in the last necessity, should she succeed in this coup de politique—seperated America from Great Britain, humbled the latter, extended her own commerce at the expence of their folly & keep the King’s Peace too, History will say Lewis 16th played his Cards with Judgement—a mid night part of my [dull?] imagination. Adieu My Dear Son, Henry Laurens [P.S.] Now to Bed. RC (MHi: William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, 1973). Henry Laurens to William Lux Si r> i 3d May 1778. I thank you for your favor of the It Inst, which came to me in Congress late last Night by Mr. Hanson to whom I have ordered Ten pounds to be paid for his services. You will be soon fully informed of the Treaties of Alliance & Com merce between the Court of Versailles & the United States of America. Copy a Letter which I here inclose will in the mean time give the great outlines. 2 I have the honour to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Wm. Lux Esquire, Baltimore.” 1 William Lux, the Continental prize agent in Maryland, died only a week after this letter was written. See ]CC, 4:301; and Pennsylvania Packet and General Advertiser, May 23, 1778. 2 The enclosure was a copy of the February 8 letter from the commissioners at Paris to Laurens announcing the conclusion of the Franco-American treaties of alliance and commerce. Lux had that letter as well as the last paragraph of Laur ens’ letter printed as a broadside in Baltimore on May 4. Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 16111.
