584 May 3, 1778 Henry Laurens to Baron Steuben Dear sir, York Town, 3 May 1778 I take the liberty of Inclosing an Abstract of the recent Intelligence from France. If Louis 16th should succeed in humbling the Power of an haughty Enemy, extend his own Commerce, establish a New World & spill none or but little Blood, his Name will pass through posterity to the end of history—the freind of Mankind. I have the honor to be, With very great Regard, Sir, Your Excel lency’s Obedient humble servt. Henry Laurens RC (NHi). Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir. York Town 3d May 1778. My last trouble to Your Excellency was dated the 30th Ulto. by Ross. The present will cover an Act of that date for ascertaining the Rank & Pay annexed to Brevet Commissions. Whether this is, or is not intended to have a retrospective effect, I think is not clearly ex pressed by the Letter, 8c as I apprehend such operation may in many Instances give Umbrage I shall embrace the first proper opportunity for obtaining an explanation of the Act or information to my own understanding. 1 I dispatch this Messenger principally to inform Your Excellency of an event the knowledge of which may nevertheless very probably have reached Camp before this can arrive there, as our Messenger from France Mr. Simeon Dean had spoken every where on his Journey to York of the Treaties between the Court of Versailles Sc the United States of America which were executed on the 6th of February 1778. These were read in Congress late last Evening 8c will probably be ratified 8c published in the course of the present Week, except a Secret Article which it is also probable is very well known abroad. Be this as it may I view the Treaties of Alliance 8c Commerce, although not free from exception, as circumstances of advantage to these United States 8c which afford a bottom for vast improvements. I beg leave therefore to congratulate with Your Excellency Sc with every friend to the great American Cause. I shall move Congress tomorrow to order duplicates of the Treaties to be immediately transmitted to Your Excellency. In the mean time this of a Letter from Doctor Franklin 8c Mr. Deane which will go enclosed will communicate the great outlines.
