592 May 3, 1778 of amity and commerce. That in this treaty no advantage would be taken of our present situation to obtain terms from us which other wise would not be convenient for us to agree to, his Majesty desiring that the treaty once made should be durable, and our amity subsist for ever, which could not be expected if each nation did not find its interest in the continuance, as well as in the commencement of it. It was therefore his intention that the terms of the treaty should be such as we might be willing to agree to, if our state had been long since established, and in the fulness of strength and power, and such as we shall approve of when this time shall come. That his majesty was fixed in his determination not only to acknowledge but to sup port our independence by every means in his power. That in doing this he might probably be soon engaged in war, yet he should not expect any compensation from us on that account, nor pretend that he acted wholly for our sakes, since beside his real good will for us and our cause, it was manifestly the interest of France that the power of England should be diminished by our separation from it. The only condition he should require and rely on would be this. That we in no peace to be made with England should give up our Independance, and return to the obedience of that Government.” Thus our Commissioners. The treaty is such as might be expected from such established principles. And we may be assured of as deter mined a spirit in other courts. It now only remains with ourselves to act with spirit. Tr (PHarH). Author and recipient established from transcriber’s note and internal evidence. Transcribed under the heading “Copy of a letter from York Town May 3d. 1778” and followed by the note “Indorsed as from Jona B Smith.” 1 This letter from the commissioners at Paris has not been found. Virginia Delegates to Patrick Henry S* r > . York, 3d May 1778. Having heared that a Messenger from France was on his way to Congress with important dispatches, we detained the Express who otherwise would have set out yesterday that we might furnish your Excellency with the intelligence he brought. It is with singular pleas ure we inform you Sir that this Messenger has brought to Congress authenticated copies of a Treaty of Commerce, and a Treaty of Amity and Alliance signed at Paris on the 6th of February last between France and these United States, and we understand there is abundant reason to suppose that the whole Bourbon family will immediately acceed thereto. The Treaty of Commerce is exactly con formable to our own proposals, and it is upon the most generous and
