602 May 5, 1778 John Henry to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir. York Town Api. [i.e. May] 5th. 1778. I acquainted you in my former Letter that the Delegates had ob tained from Congress the loan of one hundred thousand Dollars. I expected when I wrote you, that I would have been able to have sent you the Money in a day or two, 1 but the great Demands on the Treasury has prevented me. In the course of this Week you may ex pect the whole or at least some part of it. Congress yesterday ratified the Treaties of Alliance and Commerce between France and these states. You will soon have a Copy sent to the state. Mr. Chase writes you fully upon this subject. I am Sir with great respect yrs, J Henry Junr. RC (MdAA). Addressed: “His Excellency Thomas Johnson Esquire, Governor of Maryland.” Endorsed by Henry: "To be opened by the Council in the absence of the Governor.” 1 See Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Thomas Johnson, April 27, 1778, note. Henry Laurens to Richard Caswell Sir, 5th May [1778] Permit me to refer your Excellency to my last Letter of the 27th Ulto. by Barry. This will cover an Act of Congress of the 1st Inst. Recommending an exemption from Militia Duty such persons as are employed in manufacturing Military Stores &ca for the use of the United States. 1 No account yet of the arrival of the expected British Commission ers. Lord Carlisle, Mr. Pultney 8c Lord Westcote had among others been nominated. The Treaty of the 6th Febry. must have given a new momentum to British Councils 8c measures. I have the honour to be P.S. Congress this day Ratified the Treaties of Paris—of the 6 Febry, & an accot. by authority will speedily be published. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See JCC, 10:412. Laurens also enclosed copies of this act with b.icf covering letters that he wrote to Govs. William Livingston of New Jersey on May 4 and Thomas Johnson of Maryland on May 5. See PCC, item 13, fol. 293; and Red Books, MdAA. 2 Congress resolved to ratify the treaties of alliance and commerce with France on May 4 but did not approve the formal instrument of ratification until the fifth JCC, 11:457-58, 462-63.
