May 5, 1778 603 Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Dear Marquis 5 May 1778 Permit me to refer your Excellency to what I writ the 3d by Major Brice. Mr. Chief Justice Drayton will do me the honor to deliver this. Will you do me the Honor Sir, to be acquainted with this Gentleman. He is Learned, sensible 8c strongly attached to the Interests of Amer ica, consequently loves all her friends. This is the Gentleman who from the Bench had the Wisdom 8c fortitude to Indict the King 8c Parliament of Great Britain for invad ing the Rights 8c Liberties of these States. 1 Congress this day Ratified the Treaties of Paris of the 6th Febry. 8c very speedily an account will be published by authority. I have the honor to be with the highest Esteem 8c Regard 2 LB (ScHi). 1 See William Henry Drayton, A Charge, on the Rise of the American Empire, delivered by the Hon. William-Henry Drayton, Esq.; Chief-Justice of South-Caro lina: to the Grand Jury for the District of Charlestown (Charleston: David Bruce, 1776). Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 14741. 2 Laurens also wrote a letter this day to Matthew Troy of Salisbury, N.C., thank ing Troy for the help he had given to Michel Capitaine du Chesnoy, a French officer who had fallen ill in North Carolina shortly after arriving in America with Lafayette in the summer of 1777. Laurens Papers, ScHi. Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear Son, 5 May 1778. Let me again intreat you to Interest your self in getting my Chariot from Bringhurst, but I do not mean as much as I want it, to urge you to accomplish the end by irregular unlawful means, I know you will not practice such for Elijate’s Chariot—all I mean is to keep the sub ject in your mind. Mr. Chief Justice Drayton will tell you everything that is going forward here, I request you to wait upon him to the General, intro duce him in the Character of Chief Justice of So Carolina, a Delegate in Congress from that State, 8c my friend Sc do me the honor to devote all the time you can spare to his service Sc conversation. Remember he is the Man who upon the Bench had the Wisdom 8c fortitude to Indict the King Sc Parliament of Great Britain for attempting to bind America in all Cases whatsoever 8c Rob her of her Rights Sc privileges. God bless you. I am with an affection which by every Act I en deavor to prove your faithful friend.
