May 5, 1778 607 cile 8c even sweeten the most untoward circumstances which happen in ones journey through it. I apprehend it would break in upon Your Excellency’s time, otherwise I would have troubled you with Mr. Izard’s Letter not merely for information but from a hope that some thing might be devised for promoting Concord between our friends yonder, or the Public good, by a Wise seperation, but I will not dwell upon this subject. Last Night I had the honor of receiving Your Excellency’s favor of the last of April & am happy in finding a confirmation of my senti ments respecting persons proper for treating with the expected depu tation from our Adversary. 3 I fear the determination, where only this point can be determined, will be contrary. Be it so, thank God we have here some Men of abilities 8c Integrity, I hope we shall make a judicious choice. The Act of Congress of the 22d April will blot out Pages of the British Instructions, the Commissioners from that side will perceive a necessity for taking a new departure from the Tower of Indepen dence 8c what happened in France on the 6th February will oblige them to shape a new course. From the absence of the Commissioners I presume they had not sailed from England at the 10th March. It may have been found expedient at St. James’s to vest them with more ample Powers, if they meant to come, than were originally intended, 8c under new sanctions of Parliament—a work of slow progress. The People would have much to say—that the Nation were more than a little agitated appears from a Letter which I take the liberty of in closing for Your Excellency’s perusal. I have likewise a Letter from the Mercantile line in London which proves to me the people in gen eral had very sensibly felt the weight of the War, were ardently desirous of Peace 8c anxious lest Congress should reject the intended propositions. The long 8c as I humbly think, unnecessary, delay of the Army arrangement is very affecting, I know it must give extreme pain to Your Excellency—it is improper for me to touch upon the causes, especially when it is so well known that Congress have been engaged in very much important business. The Plan introduced for that part of it which is intended to establish an half Pay for Officers during Life, I have been uniformly averse from, & in a Committee of Con gress delivered my objections, these appear to me at this moment of more weight because they have not been removed by the reasonings which have been offered against them 8c I may without vanity think my self not obstinate. I am open to convertion 8c always without murmuring submit to a Majority. I view the scheme as altogether unjust 8c unconstitutional in its nature 8c full of dangerous consequences. Tis an unhappy dilemma to which we seem to be reduced—provide for your Officers in terms die-
