608 May 5, 1778 tated to you or lose all the valuable Soldiers among them—establish a Pension for Officers, make them a seperate Body to be provided for by the honest Yeomanry & others of their fellow Citizens many thousands of whom have equal claims upon every ground of Loss of Estate, health &c &c & lose your Army & your Cause. That such pro vision will be against the grain of the People has been unwarily testi fied by its Advocates whom I have heard converse upon the subject; indeed they have furnished strong ground for opposition against an immediate compliance with the demand. If we cannot make Justice one of the Pillars, Necessity may be sub mitted to at present, but Republicans will at a proper time withdraw a Grant which shall appear to have been extorted. Were I in private conversation with an Officer on this point I should not despair of fairly balancing every greivance he might sup pose to be peculiar to the Army, by instances of losses & inconveni ences in my own property & person—and I count myself very very happy compared with thousands who have as faithfully adhered to our original Compact. ’Tis said Gentlemen did not think the War would have continued so long, forgive me Sir, a ludicrous remark which I made early in our Contest, indeed in England before the commencement of Contest. “I know my Countrymen are good for the Quarter but I have doubts of their going the Course.” There is a certain versatility habitual if not almost constitutional in Men born south of 38 Degrees of Latitude in these States—circumstances which have occured in the process of this War have given strength to my observation, there are within that division of America not only objects inviting, but tempta tions almost irresistable, to Change—to say nothing of the general train of Education; hence tis easy to account for resignation of a Commission which had been anxiously solicited by scores. The want of something is made an excuse & even sometimes by worthy Charac ters who do not Suspect themselves. Would to God Gentlemen had followed the Noble Patriotic exam ple of their Commander in Chief, a Plan which reflection will shew them in a shade of disgrace would never have found a place in their minds. How superior are many of the Gentlemen now in my con templation, for I know many with whom I don’t converse, to the acceptance of an half pay, contributed to by Widows & Orphans of Soldiers who had bled & died by their sides, shackled with a condi tion of being excluded from the Privilege of serving in Offices in com mon with their fellow Citizens, bated in every House of Assembly as the Drones & incumbrances of Society, pointed at by Boys & Girls— there goes a Man who robs me every Year of part of my pittance. I think Sir I do not overstrain—this will be the Language of Repub licans—how pungent when applied to Gentlemen who shall have
