May 6, 1778 613 circumstance had not been intimated in the public Letter from our Commissioners, but I rely on my authority. Mr. Izard writes to me the 16th Febry.—"the King of Prussia has given the most explicit 8c unequivocal assurance that he will be the second power in Europe to declare the Independence of America.” Congress have Ratified the Treaty or Treaties 8c a Committee have prepared Somewhat for public information by authority in which many, probably all, of the articles relative to Commerce 8c for regu lating Marine conduct will be included. I think myself happy in being entirely of opinion with your Excel lency respecting Independence 8c the half pay scheme. 2 This last business lags exceedingly, I beleive we wait for auxiliaries. I have no objection against Liberal acknowledgments of the services of Officers 8c Soldiers, any thing that will not strike at our Constitution, but if we can’t make Justice one of the Pillars necessity will prove a temporary support. We may submit to it at present, Republicans will at a proper time withdraw a Grant which shall appear to have been extorted. This 8c the natural consequences, I dread. When the Account of the Treaties of the 6th Febry had reached White Hall Administration were perplexed, they were stunned. I have a Letter which may be trusted, informing me that Lord Mans field in tears applied to Lord Camden as a good Man, to interpose for the salvation of the Kingdom, his Lordship alluded to his re peated predictions which had been treated with Contempt 8c in timated his fears that the Door was shut. Another Letter which I have received from the Mercantile Line convinces me the weight of the War lay heavy, that the whole Nation were violently agitated. My influence is even asked to prevail upon America to accept the terms intended to be proposed, meaning the Conciliatory Bills. I do not know that I have a spark of Influence, if I had much, the whole should be thrown into the opposite Scale. From the continued absence of the expected Commissioners ’tis probable new measures were to be projected & parliamentary sanc tion obtained. I remember something of Doctor Franklin’s having proposed to a certain King a plan for reducing a great Empire to a Small King dom, 3 the Inclosed Evening post contrasts to Alfred the Great a cer tain Emperor of a floating Island. Having a spare Constitution of the State of South Carolina I send it for your Excellency’s amusement. I wont forget to enquire tomorrow concerning the Money for the light Horse, 4 I am sensible that in numberless Instances we improve our Talents in the same degree of loss. The mismanagement of our finances I often lament, our Children will feel the effects. &c 8cc omitted Copying.
