614 May 6, 1778 LB (ScHi). 1 There is a transcript o£ Governor Livingston’s April 27 letter to Laurens in the Laurens Papers, ScHi. 2 Livingston had praised Congress’ April 22 reply to Lord North’s conciliatory proposals and criticized the projected half-pay plan for military officers, observing of the latter: “It is a very pernicious Precedent in republican States, will load us with an immense debt and would render the Pensioners themselves in great measure useless to their Country.” Ibid. 3 See “Rules by Which a Great Empire May Be Reduced to a Small One,” Benjamin Franklin’s 1773 satire on British colonial policy, in Benjamin Franklin, The Papers of Benjamin Franklin, ed. Leonard W. Labaree et al. (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1959—), 20:389-99. ‘See also Laurens to Washington, April 28, 1778, note 1. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, York Town 6th May 1778 My last was under the 3d Inst, by Major Brice, 1 since which I have had the honor of presenting to Congress Your Excellency’s several favors of the 30th Ulto., 1st, 3d & 4th Inst. 2 The present will cover the undermention’d Papers. 1. An Act of Congress of the 2d Inst, for the Protection of the Western frontier—amended. 3 2. of the 5th for establishing a Plan of a well organized Inspector ship. 4 3. A Letter from Lt. Colo. Sutherland of the 47th British of the 11th April accompanied by a State of this Gentleman’s health by Doctr. Weir. 4. A Letter of the 15th April from Major Agnew of the 24th & Lieutt. Poe of the 47th—also a State of the health of these Gentlemen respectively by Doctor Weir. 5. Copy of a Letter from the Honorable James Duane Esqr. dated Albany the 24th April. 6. A Commission appointing the Honorable Baron Stiiben Inspec tor General with the Rank of Major General.® The Cases of the British Officers are submitted by Congress to Your Excellency referring to a Resolve of the 3d March. 6 I received only verbal directions on this head & that not very explicitly, if I under stand right Congress mean that an Exchange should be attempted with Sir William Howe being willing to gratify Colo. Sutherland &: the other Gentlemen upon equitable terms. I have the honor to be, With the greatest Respect, Sir, Your Ex cellency’s Most Obedient humble servt. Henry Laurens, Presidt. of Congress [P.S.] The bearer of this is charged with a Packet containing 500 blank Oaths.
