May 6, 1778 615 RC (DLC). LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 Laurens is referring to his last official letter to Washington. He had also writ ten privately to him on May 5. “These letters are in PCC, item 152, 5:535-42, 6:1-9, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:328-33, 343-44, 348. “See JCC, 11:416-17; and Laurens to the Commissioners at Fort Pitt, April 9, 1778, note 1. * This act merely confirmed the plan for the inspectorship of the army that Washington had proposed in his April 30 letter to Laurens. JCC, 11:465-66. 6 Immediately preceding this paragraph in the LB Laurens first wrote and then deleted: “The Commission for Baron Stiiben shall be transmitted to your Excel lency when returned from the Board of War where it is to be entered.” See JCC, 11:465, for the May 5 resolve appointing Steuben inspector general of the army. “See JCC, 10:219. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington Dear Sir York the 6th of May 1778 The unfortunate cause which hath prevented me from attending to your last favor sooner, 1 will, I hope, be my excuse. The long sickness and death of my much loved brother of Belleview, has for some time past confined me in Virginia, and removed every other consideration from my mind. I now embrace the first good oppor tunity of sending you the pamphlet of forgeries that I formerly mentioned. 2 Tis among the pitiful arts of our enemies to endeavor at sowing dissention among the friends of liberty and their country. With me, such tricks can never prevail. Give me leave dear Sir to congratulate you on the happy event of our Treaty with France being so effectually concluded—Congress has ratified on their part and ordered the ratification to be delivered in due form. This will be announced to the public immediately. The counsels of France have been governed in this affair by true magnanimity and sound policy. It was magnanimous in his most Christian Majesty not to avail himself of our situation to demand unequal and oppressive terms, and it was wise to leave the Commerce of America open to all the Maritime States; which will prevent their jealousy & enmity, and make them foes instead of friends to England. Great Britain has its choice now of madness, or meanness. She will not war with the house of Bourbon and N. America at the same time, so that I incline to think meanness will be her choice as best befitting her present State and the minds of her rulers. It will probably happen that the Trade of France will not now be interrupted; and thus, by affording no pretext for war, the whole force of our enemies may be devoted to one last and vigorous Campaign against us. As wise men we ought to be prepared for such an event by collecting a strong army, and by every other means that can discourage and defeat such intentions of our inveterate enemies. Being disappointed this Campaign, must infal-
