626 May 8, 1778 On Tuesday I shall have the honour of transmitting an Address to the people now in press. I am with very great regard LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 President Wharton’s letter is not mentioned in the journals and is not in PCC. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen May 8th 1778 The many interesting subjects contained in your last Letter shall shortly receive a full answer, for the present we shall confine ourselves to the disagreeable business of the Alfreds loss, and the conduct of Captain Thompson upon that occasion. 1 From various concurring informations as well as from Captain Thompsons letter to this Com mittee of the 7th of April last, The Committee are of opinion that both the public Interest and the honour of Captain Thompson render it necessary that a Court of Enquiry should be held on his conduct. But this Enquiry the Committee think cannot properly be made until Captain Hinman or some of his Officers can be heard upon the Affair and in the mean time it is not fit that the public should be deprived of the use of the Raleigh. It is therefore the desire of the Committee that you forthwith suspend Captain Thompson from the Command of that Frigate until a full and fair enquiry can be made into his Conduct, on the Occasion of the Alfreds loss, and that the Raleigh be got ready for Sea with all possible expedition. By the time this will happen the Committee will appoint a Captain to take the Command of her. 2 The Committee are intirely of Opinion with you that it will be proper to send out a Collected force to Cruize against our enemies that we recover the injured reputation of our Navy and the losses we have sustained. With this veiw the Committee wish that the Warren and any other of the Continental Vessels that you approve, may be quickly made ready for Sea and you shall shortly hear further and fully from us concerning the destination of these Ships. We have the pleasure to enclose you the late Resolves of Congress concerning Marine misconduct, and the mode of trying it, which we hope may in future remove the dificulty that hitherto subsisted in Affairs of this nature. 3 It seems from your information of the Enemy at Rhode Island bawling three additional Ships into the Channel thro’ which you proposed sending the frigate Providence to intercept her, that the chance of her escaping is too great to be unnecessarily run. We would therefore propose you should endeavour to man the Warren with the hands of the Providence and lay aside the attempt to get her out unless through a change of circumstances you should discover a fair
