May 8, 1778 627 Opportunity of effecting it—in case this should happen we would have her ordered round to Boston there to join the Continental frigates. 4 We are Gentlemen, Your Hble servants. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 See Marine Committee to John Bradford, April 28, 1778, note 2. 2 John Barry was subsequently appointed to command the Raleigh. See Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, May 30, 1778. 3 For the May 6 resolves outlining procedures for investigating naval officers involved in the loss of Continental vessels, see JCC, 11:469-71. 4 On April 30 the Continental frigate Providence escaped from Narragansett Bay and sailed for France. Morgan, Captains to the Northward, p. 129. Robert Morris to John Brown Dear sir Manheim May 8th. 1778 This will be delivered you by an Express Mr. Jona. Hudson of Baltimore sent up to me for Money which it will be most Convenient for me to send from York Town. You will find herein a letter for Mr. De Francy open for Your perusal & enclosed the set of bills drawn by the Marquis de Fayette mentioned therein also my acct against the Marquis. Mr. de Francy assured me he wou’d repay me this whole acct by the end of this Week & I am sure he will do it. You’l please to wait on him, deliver the letter & receive the Money giving up those bills Sc a receipt for the rest of the Money in full of my demands against the Marquis. You will then be pleased to send three thousand Pounds of that Money by this Express to Mr. Jona. Hudson Mercht in Baltimore on my Acct. & Credit me for the remainder yourself. You will also find herein an order of James Walsh on behalf of Goodwin & Russell on Mr. Wm Sellers junr to deliver Me a Sum of money or an order for it, if you get the Money send it down to Mr Hudson by the Express, but if he delivers you the order on Mr Potts, send it to me. Mr. Hudson has remitted Mr Helligass a draft on Colo. Blane for near £3000, let him know of the Express going to Balto. that he may send the Money if he has it 8c oblige, Dr sir, Your Obedt hble servt, Robt Morris P.S. Tell Jemmy Reese his Father is here at Work 8c will be glad to see him before he returns which may be in 2 or 3 weeks. 1 RC (PHi). 1 Morris also wrote to Washington the following day acknowledging the gen eral’s April 27 letter concerning delays in the preparation of "our Elaboratories” in Pennsylvania and their correspondence on the subject of Col. Charles Arrnand- Tuffin. See Washington Papers, DLC; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:315-16, 453.
