628 May 9, 1778 Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir. York Town 9th May 1778. My last to Your Excellency was elated the 6th by Sharp. This will be accompanied by a Petition of Lt. Colo. Dircks which I am directed to transmit 8c to request Your Excellency will do or advise therein as Your Excellency shall judge conducive to public service. 1 Also by, several printed Acts of Congress of the 6th Inst, contained in a Pennsylvania Gazette announcing such parts of the Treaty of Paris of the 6th February as are necessary for Public information & the Government of conduct in particular Cases. I have the honor to be, With the highest Esteem & Regard, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient servt, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (DLC). 'Jacob Gerhard Diriks’ petition to Congress—undated but endorsed by Secretary Thomson: “Petition of J. Gerhard Dereks, read in Congress 8 May 1778. referred to Genl Washington”—is in the Washington Papers, DLC. In it Diriks, who had resigned a captain’s commission in the Fourth Continental Artillery Regiment in July 1777, asked Congress for permission “to raise a Body Composed of two or more Companies which might be Joined to the Corps under the command of Brigadier General Count Pulaski." But Washington deemed Diriks’ request unwise and refused to approve it. See JCC, 11:509; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:380. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen May 9th 1778 We have received yours of the 6th, 9th, 15th, 20th 8c 22d April last under the signature of Mr. Warren and now sit down to give them an Answer. The loss of the Columbus altho’ considerable yet by the prudence of your Board in taking out her Cannon & Stores before she left Providence, is much less than it would have otherwise been. As it is highly proper that a Strict enquiry should be made into the causes of the loss of any of the Continental Vessels, you will institute a Court of Inquiry for the purpose of Inquiring into the loss of that Ship. 1 We have given directions respecting the frigate Providence in ours of yesterday which went by Express to which we refer you. With regard to the Trumbull, the Governor 8c Council of Con necticut were desired to assist in getting her out of the River because you were not then assembled at Boston, and not from any the most distant Idea of your incompetancy to the business. 2 How it hath hap pened that you have not received notice of their being requested to
