640 May 11, 1778 Henry Laurens to the Chevalier de Mauduit Du Plessis Dear Colonel Uth May 1778 I was yesterday honoured with your Lettere Comique by Colonel Gimat. I will not be “angry” nor will I “chide” you, when you are a good Child, but when you fret for a new Coat or because the Lace upon the old one does not please your fancy, Sc that when you lose your play things Heaven 8c Earth 8c Congress must all stand still as the Sun at Joshua’s Command till Papa goes to the Shop 8c gets a new Toy for you; a little grave reasoning will be necessary, you are now of an Age to bear it, you are grown too big to be wheedled asleep with a pretty Story, 8c I know you wont take “beating” from any body; but that mat ter is adjusted; jocularity apart, I receive 8c return with the highest satisfaction your gratulations on the late happy event of an Alliance between France 8c these United States. Your King, throughout Christendom, will be stiled “protector of the Rights of Mankind,”—better founded than “Defender of the Faith,” more lustrous than King of Navarre, 8c an excellent adjunct to “Most Christian.” This happy Tribute of America’s sensibility will be more mortifying to a certain deluded Prince than any thing that has befallen him in the course of the War. If His Majesty will now play his other Cards so skilfully as to com mand peace he shall be further Stiled “Le politique.” Then His illustrious Titles in plain English will read. “His Most Christian Majesty Louis 16th. King of France 8c Navarre, Protector of the Rights of Mankind, who by the Magic of Policy, humbled, without bloodshed, a powerful, haughty 8c much dreaded Rival 8c gave peace to both Shores of the Atlantic. 6th Febry 1778.” But do you think Great Britain will be Jockeyed, out of her Rice, Indigo, Tobacco, Pitch, Tar, Turpentine, Iron, Hemp, Masts, Peltry 8cc 8cc 8cc 8cc 8cc 8cc 8cca 8c an hundred more without a Struggle, at least for revenge. This cannot be, we must expect War 8c a bloody one too—let us prepare for it as the best means for securing peace. But tell me if peace comes soon, what will you do, go to France 8c be Vigneron, or to Carolina 8c learn to make Rice & Indigo? I know which would be most pleasing to me. By this you will learn that I am disposed Dear Colonel to be very much your friend 8c humble Servant, [P.S.] Your letters for France shall go in the Same Vessel which is pre paring to conduct Our Ratification of the Treaties of 6th Febry.— Commerce, Alliance 8c Secret. Common circumstances in my way, people continually coming in have obliged me to write in haste, you will pardon imperfection. LB (ScHi).
