May 11, 1778 641 Henry Laurens to Pierre Etienne Du Ponceau Sir, 11th May 1778 I am sorry to learn by your favor of the 7 th Inst, that circumstances have occured which have disturbed your accustomed tranquility. The Brevet which you have, is to the best of my knowledge exactly such an one as Baron Stiiben applied for, I am sure it is such as I was ordered to grant, &: you widely mistake, if you believe the disposal of Commissions rests with me. 1 The Resolves of Congress are my Orders—from these I never swerve, be my own inclinations as they may. Your Brevet intitles you to Rank & pay of Captain, neither one nor the other are depreciated by such assistance as you may give to Gen eral Stiiben. Command was not asked for, if it had been, your experience of our Army has shewn you, it could not have been granted. Major Des Epinier’s Commission has been more than once re torted. The importunity of some Gentlemen &: their friends at par ticular times, when Congress were not at leisure for minute enquiries, may have led the House unwarily into error. This perhaps may be produced as an Instance, ’tis impossible to escape without adhering strictly to Rules from which Congress indulgently to their friends from France have sometimes deviated—but when Monsr. Des Espinier shews his Commission & talks of his advantages every circumstance relative to his obtaining that Commission should be disclosed. 2 ’Tis impracticable for me Sir, to be more minute, my Duty to the public will not afford time. I shall only observe further, on two parts of your Letter. You say, “I certainly mistook the Baron when he applied for a Commission for you” & you tell me what his “meaning” was—the interpretation of the Barons meaning was his expression & I am per suaded you will be tender in an attempt to prove he did not mean what he said. But Sir, as an Individual what is all this to me? As the President of Congress I repeat, I act faithfully to the orders of Congress. I have no will of my own. I have heard no complaint from Baron Stiiben that his “meaning” had been mistaken or perverted & I beleive there is no ground for complaint. “You will freely subscribe to my Decision.” I decide then with your permission, that you cultivate the acquain tance you have made among Strangers into friendships, & remain tranquil in your present Sphere until you can fairly & advantage ously enlarge it. This is advice I would give to my Son, whether you
