650 May 11, 1778 RC (DLC). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2:177-78. 1 Lee was a member of the committee appointed May 6 to prepare an address to the people “upon the present situation of public affairs" that was approved by Congress two days later. ]CC, 11:471, 474-81. 2 This version of Franklin’s pamphlet comparing the basis of credit in the United States and Great Britain was published in the May 16 issue of the Pennsylvania Gazette. A 1777 draft is in Franklin, Writings (Smyth), 7:1-8. 3 Loyaute resigned on May 20 after the Virginia Assembly ruled that his appoint ment as inspector general of Virginia artillery did not entitle him to military com mand. For Lee’s previous efforts to secure Loyaute's services for Virginia, see Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry, October 8, 1777, note 2. Thomas McKean to Sarah McKean Dear Sally, York-Town. May 11th. 1778. About sun-down I arrived safe here, tho’ I cannot say quite sound. The Treaty between the United States of America &: the most Christ ian King proves that his Majesty of France is not only so, but also the most wise, most just & most magnanimous Prince not only in the World at present but to be found in history. The treaty was unani mously approved of by Congress, and the King of France has the signal honor of the thanks of Congress. Mr. Davison purposes to begin a grammar school at Portor’s mill on Octorara about 26 miles from Lancaster on Friday next. I have agreed to send Josey & Robert to him, and have secured lodgings either at Doctor Ewings or some place approved by him. Shall I beg you to get them put in some order as to clothing. You must employ some Taylor & Semstress without delay. As soon as you let me know by Sam that they are ready I shall return home and take them to the school—the sooner the better. Have no news to be relied upon, but expect to celebrate the anniversary of Independance in Philadelphia for it appears to [me?] that the British army will soon quit it. I am, with love to the children, dear Sally, Your affectionate, Thos M:Kean RC (PHi). Addressed: “To Mrs. Mary M:Kean. By Negro Sam.” McKean confused the name of his first wife, Mary Borden McKean, who died in 1773, with that of Sarah Armitage McKean, whom he married in 1774. Gouverneur Morris to Robert Morris Dear Duer Monday Evening [May 11, 1778] 1 Livingston is so ill he can’t attend Congress. Monsr. La Neuville is kept in dilatory attendance. 2 The half Pay cannot be postponed (for now we are the Postponers) beyond To Morrow Morning. Tell Mor ris his Portugueze Affair is settled much against the wishes of his
