May 12, 1778 651 Eastern Friends. 3 I could not get the Papers till last Night and this Morning I did the needful whereupon the delay was not chargeable on his and your, Friend, Gouvr. Morris. The above is a Copy of a Letter written two Hours ago delivered to Duer who unfortunately arrived in Town without you very con trary to my Expectations. James Smith assures him that his worthy Colleague Jonathan B Smith hath absolutely declared off upon the Half Pay Business. Clingan is of the true Eastern Stamp and Clay. I need say no more when you know that Massachusetts is against us except that Hall is daily expected from Georgia and some of the Un true Blues from New Hampshire. Think one Moment and come here the next. My respectful remembrances wait on Mrs Morris. I send somewhat for your Evenings Amusement. Adieu, Yours sincerely, Gouvr. Morris [RS.] The Question for referring the half pay Establish to the States cannot be deferr’d longer than to Morrow. Pensilvania being at pres ent against us it will be carried to refer it to the States, which will defeat the Measure. 4 When I have mentioned this I am sure I need not add any thing more to induce you to be here by Eleven o’Clock to MorroW. W. Duer MS not found; reprinted from Burnett, Letters, 3:230 31. Endorsed by Gouverneur Morris: “Let the Bearer of this Letter pass to and from Manheim—York Town." The postscript was written and signed by William Duer. 'Although Robert Morris endorsed this letter “Monday Evening Feby 11th 1778 Gouver. Morris,’’ it is clear from internal evidence that it was actually written on May 11. 2 See Henry Laurens to Lafayette, this date, note 2. 3 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Massachusetts Board of War, May 14, 1778. 4 Morris was back in Congress on May 13 to help defeat a motion to submit the half-pay plan to the states, but his return to Congress at this time was a brief one. In addition to his vote on the half-pay issue on May 13, the journals also record his votes on two other issues on May 14 and 15, but two private letters he wrote on May 16 and 17 bear a Manheim place line. See JCC, 11:495, 500, 503; Morris to John Wendell, May 16, Photostat Collection, MHi; and Morris to William Bing ham, May 17, 1778, Gratz Collection, PHi. For the six-month leave of absence from Congress granted to him in November 1777, see Robert Morris to Thomas Whar ton, November 11; and Robert Morris to the Committee of Commerce, December 17, 1777. Henry Laurens to Matthew Locke Sir, 12th May [1778] I had the pleasure of writing to you the Sth Inst, by Mr. Brandon 8c transmitted Copies of Interesting public papers. This is intended for a like purpose.
