652 May 12, 1778 You will receive within this Enclosure 10 Copies of an Address by Congress to the Inhabitants of the United States. 3 Copies of such parts of the Treaties of the 6th Febry at Paris between the Court of France & these States as Congress judge neces sary to make public at present. These you will extend as far as you can for the information of all our fellow Citizens. I am not among those who are flattered by a prospect of immed iate peace. I think too highly of Great Britain to admit a belief that she will tamely Submit to the political mancevres of her Neighbor. It is our Duty however to be guarded against her utmost efforts which I have no doubt will be made the ensuing Summer on some part of the Continent. The disappointment, if she should pursue measures more pacific, will be very acceptable to us. We are told that War is declared & hostilities commenced between England & France. That Sir William Howe is preparing to embark his foreign Troops for Europe—British Troops to the West Indies. We also hear he has established a Camp on the Jersey Shore perhaps to facilitate his em barkation or to divide our forces, but these I say are Reports. I am with great respect &ca. LB (ScHi). Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee My dear Brother York in Pennsylva. 12 May 1778 Your favors of Octr. 24, Deer. 6, 8, & 19 by Capt. Young and Mr. Deane came safe to hand and deserve my thanks on many accounts, but on none more than for the care you have taken, and propose to take of my dear Son Ludwell. Under your kind protecting hand I hope he will be reared to much use both public and private. I approve altogether of your designs respecting him. It grieves me extremely to hear of the indolence and extravagence of my son Thom. They are qualities the direct reverse of those that must carry him thro life, if he passes with honor and ease to himself. I hope his Uncle Alder man’s attention to him, and your advice, with what I have written him will work a change. It is with infinite pain that I inform you our dear brother of Belleview 1 departed this Life on the 13 of April last after sustaining a severe Rheumatic fever for 6 weeks. Dr. Steptoe attended him the whole time, and I was also with him. Both public and private considerations render the loss most lamentable. He had
