May 14, 1778 659 we did not then foresee, but the arrival of your dispatches since with the Treaties have unriddled the Affair. General Howe was equally industrious in Circulating them by his emissaries thro’ the Country; Mr Tryon at N York did the same, and both those Gentlemen sent them under sanction of a flag to Genl Washington, who immediately sent the first he received to Congress. Mr. Tryon’s Letter which covered them, and General Washington’s answer thereto, you will find in Hall’s and Seller’s Gazette printed at York town May 2d. Those Bills are truly unworthy the attention of any National Body; but lest the Silence of Congress should be misunderstood, or furnish the Enemy with New Ground for false insinuation, they were in stantly referred to a Committee of Congress, whose judicious and spirited report thereon was unanimously approved by the House April 22d & published and circulated thro’ the several States with all possible expedition. 1 The dispatches in charge of Mr. Dean did not arrive till the second of May, eight days after the said reports were published; and his expedition in bringing the dispatches to Congress, prevented any Intelligence arriving before him. Inclosed are the reports referred to, to which we recommend your attention in making them as public as possible in Europe, prefacing them with such an explanatory detail of Circumstances as shall have a tendency to place the Politics of America on the firm basis of National honor. Integrity and fortitude. We admire the true Wisdom and dignity of the Court of France, in her part of the Construction and Ratification of those Treaties; they have a powerful and effectual tendancy to dissolve that narrow ness of mind which mankind have been too unhappily bred up in. In those treaties we see the Politician founded on the Philosopher, and harmony of affections made the ground Work of mutual Interest. France by her open Candor has won us more powerfully than any reserved treaties could possibly bind us, and at a happy Juncture of Times and Circumstances laid the seeds of an eternal freindship. It is from an anxiety of preserving inviolate this cordial union so happily begun that we desire your particular attention to the 11th and 12th Articles in the Treaty of Amity and Commerce. The unreserved Confidence of Congress in the good disposition of the Court of France will sufficiently appear by their having unanimously ratified those treaties, and then trusted any alterations or amendments to mutual negociation afterwards. We are apprehensive that the general and extensive tenor of the 12th Article may in future be misunderstood, or rendered inconvenient or impracticable, and, in the end, become detrimental to that friendship we wish ever to exist; To prevent which, you will herewith receive instructions and authority for giving up on our Part the whole of the 11th Article proposing it as a Condi tion to the Court of France, that they, on their part, give up the
