664 May 14, 1778 and executive Business of the Continent now in its great Increase. It has been next to impossible to make Remittances for many months from the Staple Colonies the Coasts of which have been constantly infested by numerous and strong Cruisers of the Enemy. We hope the Alliance of maritime Powers with us will remove our Embarrassments and give us Opportunity to carry into Effect our hearty Wishes to maintain the fairest commercial Reputation. There will be great Impropriety in our making a different Settle ment for the Supplies received from Spain from that which we make in Regard to those received from France. We are greatly obliged to the Friends who have exerted themselves for our Relief, and wish you to signify our Gratitude upon every proper Opportunity. But, having promised to make Remittances to Hortales for the prime Cost, Charges, Interest & usual mercantile Commission upon whatever is justly due to that House, we must keep the same Line with Gardoqui. On the one Hand, we would not willingly give Disgust by slighting princely Generosity, nor on the other submit to unnecessary Obliga tions. The Unanimity with which Congress has ratified the Treaties with France and the general glad acceptance of the Alliance by the People of these States must shock Great Britain who seems to have thought no Cruelty from her would destroy our great Partiality in her Favor. What plan she will adopt in Consequence of her Disap pointment Time only can discover. But, we shall aim to be in a posture either to negociate honorable Peace or continue this just War. We stand in Need of the Advice and Assistance of all our Friends in the matter of Finance; as the Quantity of our Paper Currency necessarily emitted has produced a Depreciation which will be ruinous if not very quickly checked. We have encouraging Accounts of the Temper of the Hollanders of late and expect we may find Relief from that Quarter among others. A few Weeks if not a few Days must produce fruitful Subject for another Letter when we shall in our Line of Duty renew our Assur ances of being, with great Regard, Sir, Your affectionate humble Servants, Richard Henry Lee James Lovell Robt Morris RC (NN). Written by Lovell and signed by Lovell, Lee, and Morris. 1 These letters are in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:401-3, 429-31, 445—17. 3 For Lee’s July 29, 1777, letter, see ibid., pp. 369-72. Congress did not receive a copy of it until at least July 23, 1778, when a copy arrived with Lee’s April 8, 1778, letter to the committee. PCC, item 83, fols. 193-98. 3 In his October 6, 1777, letter to the Committee for Foreign Affairs, Arthur Lee recalled his meetings with Caron de Beaumarchais in London in the spring of
