666 May 14, 1778 tion of being free and independent is ensured by this eclairrissment of the Court of Versailles. Our army is growing daily so that if we are to negotiate with Britain we shall do it in a proper posture. There are some reports of her drawing away her troops, that she may with a proper grace enter into parley. But this must be done without disguise, or no treaty can be held. For surely no one can suppose that we shall now give up a point which we had made a preliminary before we knew what powerful friendship was secured to us in Europe. The powers which had been given to our Commissioners in France and our great Anxiety to keep perfect faith in Treaties induced a caution with regard to the powers given in after appointments which is now become unnecessary. Perfect equality being the basis of our present treaties without any exclusive privileges to France there can be no chance of discontent from the conclusion of similar treaties with other powers of Europe; therefore we shall doubtless soon forward to you more full powers than what were sent with your commission. As you seem to think it may be advantageous to have a cypher for correspondence we would propose the same which has been mentioned to Doctor Franklin formerly by Mr Lovell, 5 and this is the rather chosen because it may serve between the Doctor and you or any number of your friends taking a different key word for each. The Scheme is inclosed marked L. f R.H. Lee Signed / James Lovell [ Rob Morris P.S. You are to have a plenipotentiary commission with instructions not limiting the term of proposed treaties of amity and Commerce. FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). FC (DNA: PCC, item 79 appendix). 1 Lee’s November 24 and December 18, 1777, letters to Secretary Charles Thom son and to the committee are in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:426-27, 454-55. 2 In his November 24, 1777, letter to Charles Thomson, Lee had suggested the possibility of raising troops in the German city-states as a means of embarrassing the British. Silas Deane had also proposed the raising of mercenary troops in a November 28, 1776, letter to the Committee of Secret Correspondence. Ibid., pp. 198-99, 426-27. 3 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Ralph Izard, this date, note 2. ‘See Henry Laurens to the Massachusetts Council, May 23, 1778, note 3. 6 See James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin, [ante July 4, 1777]. Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Massachusetts Board of War Gentlemen York Town 14 May 1778 A resolve of Congress respecting a Portuguese Snow and her Cargo is sent to you by the President in which you are requested to transmit
