668 May 14, 1778 from the House, you will be pleased therefore to accept this as it is intended to afford you the satisfaction of knowing that your Letters had reached their destination. When the last came to hand I applied to the Treasury Board where the former had been committed, for information &: received in answer “the Board had not yet taken Mr. Bedlow’s Memorial under consideration.” 2 I have since urged the Gentlemen & shall continue to remind them 8c when any determina tion is had, you shall be immediately informed. I am Sir &ca. 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 William Bedlow was deputy paymaster general at Fishkill, N.Y. JCC, 9:901. 2 On March 26 Congress had referred to the Board of Treasury a “memorial from Bedlow for which no date is given in the journals but which was doubtless the March 6 document mentioned by Laurens. This memorial is not in PCC, but on August 26, 1778, Congress approved the board’s report on it, recommending that Bedlow “be allowed thirty-five dollars per month ... in addition to his former allowance of fifty dollars per month.” See JCC, 10:284, 11:839. Bedlow s April 23 letter to Laurens is also not in PCC. 3 Laurens also wrote the following brief letter this day to William Denning of New Windsor, Conn. “In answer to your favor of the 9th Inst, this moment come to hand, please to be informed that your attendance as a Commissioner of accounts at the Board of Treasury is expected here, where the Treasurers Office is fixed for the present.” PCC, item 13, fol. 319. Laurens had just received a letter from Denning, who had been appointed a commissioner of accounts on March 30, stating that he was unsure of the duties of his office and had recently been informed by letter from Francis Lewis that he need not serve in York. At the foot of Denning’s letter, which was read in Congress on the 15th, Secretary Thomson wrote the following note: “The business of a comr. of accounts at the board of treasury is to liquidate and settle all accots that shall be transferred to them by that board under the direction of the Auditor genl. Such comrs must therefoie necessar[il]y attend where the board sits." See PCC, item 78, 7:195; and JCC, 11:501. Lewis, who had advised Denning to the contrary, was a member of the committee of claims that had been superseded by the Board of Treasury in July 1776. JCC, 5:620. Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes Si r 14th May 1778 I had the honor of writing to your Excellency the 2d Inst, by Messenger Cross—& yesterday of receiving your Excellency’s favors of the 13th & 18th Ulto. together with the Copy of General Howe’s Letter referred to, and also the public accts. All these were imme diately Committed—the Letters to a Select Committee & the Ac counts to the Board of Treasury. 1 Your Excellency shall be duly informed of such Commands as I shall receive on the several Subjects. Within the present Inclosure will be found 1. An Act of Congress recommending to exempt from Military
