670 May 15, 1778 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). x See Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Massachusetts Board of War, this date. Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris In Committee for foreign Affairs Gentlemen No. 8 York Town May 15 1778 Your pressing request for 5000 Hhds of Tobacco is a matter as embarrassing to Congress as to yourselves. 1 Their anxiety to get it to you is as great as yours to receive it. We have already lost considerable Quantities in the attempt and thereby furnished our Enemy, Gratis, with what was designed to discharge your Contracts with, and pro mote the Interest and Commerce of our Friends. We request your particular attention to this information. It is a matter of the highest moment to our allies as well as to ourselves. In the present State of things it is very probable that England will not interrupt the Trade of France in her own Bottoms, and our desire is, as well for her Benefit as ours, that France would open the Trade from her own Ports, so that the Intentional advantages of the Treaties may fully operate to both Countries. We need not enlarge on this head, as your own discernment and judgment will furnish you with all the reasons necessary therefor. In addition to what is mentioned in our Letter No. 2 re specting the 11th & 12 Articles we observe that the 12th is capable of an interpretation and misuse which was probably not thought of at the Time of Constructing it, which is that it opens a door for all or a great part of the Trade of America to be carried thro the French Islands to Europe, and puts all future regulations out of our Power, either of Imposts or Prohibition, which tho’ we might never find our Interest to use, yet it is the keeping those in our Power, that will hereafter enable us to preserve equality with, and regulate the Im posts of the Countries we trade with. The General Trade of France is not under the like restriction; every article on our part being staked against the single Article of Molasses on theirs. Therefore the Congress thinks it more liberal and consistent that both Articles should be expunged. We have no material military Transactions to acquaint you with. The Enemy yet remain in Philadelphia, but some late movements make it probable they will not stay long. Our Army is yet at the Valley forge. The Enemy thro’ the Course of the winter have carried on a low, pitiful, and disgraceful kind of War agst Individuals whom they picked up by sending out little parties for that purpose and revengefully burning several of their houses. Yet all this Militates
