May 15, 1778 671 against themselves, by keeping up an inflamable Indignation in the Country towards them; and on the whole we know not which most to wonder at, their folly in making us hate them after their inability for Conquest and desires of Peace are confest, or their Scandalous barbarity in expressing their resentments. 3 You will see, Gentlemen, by the Contract which the commercial Committee has signed with the Agent of Mr. Beaumarchais that Congress was desirous of keeping a middle Course, so as not to appear to slight any determined Generosity of the French Court, and at the same Time to show a Promptness to discharge honourably the Debts which may be justly charged against these States by any Persons. 4 We depend upon you to explain the affair fully, as you seem to make a Distinction between the military Stores &: the other Invoices, while no such Distinction appears in the Letters of Mr. Deane &: Mr. Beau marchais. In short, we are rather more undetermined by your late Dispatches than we were by your long Silence. Congress being at this Time deeply engaged in a Variety of pressing Business and the foreign Committee thin of Members you will be pleased to excuse us from being more particular in our Answer to your several Dispatches as well as in our Information of the State of our Affairs. We are, Gentlemen, your very humble Servants, Richard Henry Lee James Lovell P.S. You will see what we have written to Mr. Dumas, and will point out to us what will be our Line of Honour to him & Justice to these States. RC (PPAmP). Begun in a clerical hand and completed by Lovell; signed by Lovell and Lee. Endorsed by John Adams: ‘‘Comtee. foreign affairs May 15, ans. July 29, 1778." ■In their February 16 letter to the committee, the commissioners at Paris had requested this tobacco in order to pay the expenses of American diplomatic mis sions to Germany, Italy, and Holland. Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:496-97. 2 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris, May 14, 1778. * Remainder of RC written by Lovell. ‘See Committee of Commerce to the Commissioners at Paris, May 16, 1778. Henry Laurens to Ethan Allen Sir, 15th May [1778] Yesterday I had the honor of presenting to Congress your favor of the 9th which came to hand the preceeding Evening. 1 The Contents were heard by the House with much satisfaction &
