678 May 15, 1778 Virginia Delegates to Patrick Henry Sir: York May 15th, 1778. The situation of the affairs of the United States urges (in our opin ion) the necessity of a speedy confederation of the states, and as we are doutful whether we can be justifiable in departing a little, even in matters of form, from the strict letter of the instruction we are possessed of on that subject, we are apprehensive it may greatly im pede the carrying into execution this salutary work. We have therefore to entreat that you will lay the same before the General assembly for their consideration, and that they will give such further, or other instructions for our government in this particular, as they may judge expedient. 1 We are with great respect, Your mo. Ob’t. Servts. Richard Henry Lee. Francis Lightfoot Lee. Thos Adams. MS not found; reprinted from Henry, Patrick Henry, 3:166. 1 The Virginia Assembly was the first to approve the proposed Articles of Con federation and had instructed their delegates on December 15, 1777, to ratify them without qualification. The journals of the Virginia House of Delegates do not indicate that the Virginia delegates received “other instructions” on ratification until a December 3, 1778, resolution directed them to propose to Congress that the confederation become binding on all states that ratified and that provision be made for the remainder to ratify later. Journal of the House of Delegates of the Commomeealth of Virgina, 1777-81 (Richmond, 1827), October-December 1777, pp. 80-81; October-December 1778, p. 98. In his June 5, 1778, letter to Richard Henry Lee, Thomas Jefferson explained why the Virginia Assembly did not respond to the delegates’ request. “Your letter, about enlarging your powers over the confederation, was not proceeded on, because the nature of the enlargment was not chalked out by you so intelligibly as enabled the house to do any thing, unless they had given a carte blanche. Indeed, I be lieve, that, had the alterations proposed been specified, unless they had been mere form indeed, it might have been difficult to obtain their consent.” Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2: 194. Committee of Commerce to the Commissioners at Paris Committee of Commerce, Gentlemen York in Pennsylvania May 16. 1778. This will be accompanied with a Contract entered into between John Baptist Lazarus Theveneau De Francy agent of Mr. Peter Augustine Caron de Beaumarchais representative of the House of Roderique Hortalez & Co. and the Committee of Commerce. 1 You
