May 16, 1778 679 will observe that their Accounts are to be fairly stated and what is justly due paid. For as on the one hand Congress would be unwilling to evidence a disregard for, and contemptuous refusal of the Spon taneous freindship of his most Christian Majesty; so on the other they are unwilling to put into private Pockets what was gratuitously de signed for Public benefit. You will be pleased to have their Accounts liquidated and direct in the liquidation thereof that particular care be taken to distinguish the property of the Crown of France from the Private property of Hortalez and company, and transmit to us the accounts so stated and distinguished. This will also be accompanied by an Invoice of articles to be imported from France and resolves of Congress relative thereto. 2 You will appoint if you judge proper an Agent or Agents to Inspect the quality of such Goods as you may appy for to the House of Roderique Hortalez & Co before they are shipped to prevent an imposition. The obstructions of the Bays & Harbours to the Southward by British men of war, hath prevented our shipping Tobacco as we intended. We have ordered several Vessels lately to South Carolina for Rice and have directed the Continental Agent in that state to consign them to your address. So Soon as we can venture to send out Tobacco with any probability of Success we shall certainly do it. This goes by a dispatch Vessel under the direction of the Commit tee of foreign Affairs. Five Others are employed in the same business which you will load with such articles as you may have ready to transmit to us. We congratulate with you on the treaties entered into with his most Christian Majesty and are with the greatest respect, Gentn, Your very humble servts, William Ellery Richd. Hutson Thos. Adams RC (PPAmP). In the hand of John Brown and signed by Adams, Ellery, and Hut son. Endorsed by John Adams: “Comtce of Commerce May 16. 1778 ansd. July 29.” 1 See Robert Morris’ Proposed Report on the Claims of Roderique Hortalez & Co., March 12, 1778, note 1. 2 A 15-page “Invoice of articles to be shipped from France by Roderique Hortalez & Co. for account and risque of the United States of America in whole or in part as the Commissioners of the United States at the Court of France shall direct” that was signed on May 18 by Adams, Ellery, and Hutson, is in the Franklin Papers, PPAmP. This “Invoice” is in a clerical hand, but a part of the heading was written by Ellery and portions of the list are in the hand of Theveneau de Francy. The May 16 resolves authorized the commissioners “to apply to the house of Roderique Hortalez & Co. for such of the said articles as they shall not have previously purchased or contracted for” and requested that the articles shipped by Hortalez & Co. not be insured, but that the commissioners “endeavour to obtain convoy for the protection thereof.” JCC, 11:505.
