682 May 16, 1778 of infractions said to have been committed on the part of the Con quered in the Convention of Saratoga & for requesting Your Excel lency to take the necessary measures for ascertaining Facts, so highly Interesting to the honor & welfare of these States. 1 Congress have this day ordered the Treasury Board to remit to Your Excellency the Sums specifically, which are provided, by the last Resolve of the Act, for this service. I have Honor to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 Congress wanted Governor Clinton to ascertain the truth of reports that the British were violating the Saratoga Convention by forcing Canadian soldiers, who had been captured at Saratoga and released on condition they take no further part in the war, to fight against the United States again. JCC, 11:501-2. Clinton trans mitted “several Affidavits respecting the Infraction of the Convention of Saraghtoga on the Part of the Enemy’’ with a September 1, 1778, letter to President Laurens and promised to send further evidence of British violations as soon as possible. Clinton did gather additional information about British infractions of the con vention, but there is no evidence he ever forwarded it to Congress. See Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 3:717, 4:420-23. Henry Laurens to John Ettwein Reverend sir, York Town Saturday 16th May 1778 Congress have been so closely engaged in afFtiirs of gieat impor tance—requiring immediate attention—as to exclude hitherto the consideration of your Memorial, nor do I beleive there will be an opening for bringing it forward even on Monday next, although, as I judge from private conversation, there are many Gentlemen heartily disposed to grant your requests, the whole House may be so for aught I know. 1 As you have waited so many days without effect, you will probably save time by proceeding in your intended application to the State at Lancaster. 2 Be assured Sir I will lay your Papers before Congress at the first opportunity for taking them under consideration & as speedily as the case will admit of, you shall be informed at Lancaster or Bethlehem of such determination as shall be had thereon. From an opinion that the granting your requests will be equally consistent with sound Policy & Christian Charity, I cannot do less than wish very earnestly you may be dismissed from Lancaster with an answer which will give joy &: satisfaction to the Bietlnen &: eventu ally produce much benefit to these United States. I am Reverend Sir, with great affection &: Respect, Your friend & humble servt. Henry Laurens RC (PBMCA).
