May 16, 1778 683 ’John Ettwein’s memorial to Congress, dated May 12 but actually written a few days earlier and signed by Ettwein “In the Name of the Bishops & Elders & on Behalf of all the United Brethren,” is in the Laurens Papers, ScHi, and Kenneth G. Hamilton, John Ettwein and the Moravian Church during the Revolutionary Period (Bethlehem, Pa.: Times Publishing Co., 1940), pp. 197-99. This memorial, which Moravian church officials asked Ettwein to present to Congress because of his long friendship with Laurens, asked Congress to urge state governments—and particularly that of Pennsylvania—to relieve Moravians of the penalties to which they were liable under various state laws for their refusal to bear arms or abjure the king. Congress appointed a committee on May 14 to consider Ettwein’s mem orial but decided to take no formal action on the committee’s report, which advised the delegates that it would be impolitic to grant the Moravian request. Instead, as the letter printed above suggests, Laurens merely gave Ettwein permission to intimate to the Pennsylvania Assembly that Congress would have no objection if it granted the Moravians the relief they sought. That this was in fact one object of Laurens’ letter emerges even more clearly from an account of Ettwein’s dealings with Congress that the Moravian leader wrote in 1781. Therein he noted that he arrived in York on May 11 and went on to observe: “On that very day, there was published an Address to the People by Congress, which seemed to me like a roaring storm. The treaty with France had just become known and all was at a fever heat. I visited President Laurens without delay, acquainted him with my mission, showed him the memorial, requested him to correct the copy intended for Congress. He replied: it would not be necessary, I should present both of them just as they were; he considered it our duty to make representation, whether fruit should come of it or not. After reading the mem orials, he said: ‘I like your Spirit!’ He promised to speak with some members of Congress, naming some whom I should visit and interview privately about this. I did so early on the 12th of May, visiting 6 members of Congress; only Mr. Mac- Kean, Chief Justice of Pennsylv. proved unfriendly and told me: he would vote against it; if I were pledged to obey someone else, I would be no fit subject of the State. Governor [Gouverneur] Morris of New York introduced the memorial in Congress the same day, taking our part warmly, as did several others. Mr. Duane [Dana], a lawyer, said: ‘I believe the Moravians are good Subjects, but they will have nothing to do with pulling down old Governments & setting up new ones!’ He inquired of me, whether that were not our position, and I answered: ‘Yes!’ He volunteered to secure a piece of land of 5 to 6 square m. for the Brethren, 40 m. from Boston, together with an act from the State, similar to the act of Parlia ment, if we should care to establish a settlement there. I replied: now was not the time to contemplate anything like that. The eastern States require an oath of abjuration only from those who hold public office. The President said: should this people be driven into exile, he would be tempted to drop everything and go with them. A committee was appointed to examine the memorial more closely. Mr. Ellers [Ellery] of Rhode Island was purposely named for this; but afterward, by means of private juggling, MacKean replaced him on it. On the 14th, the Presi dent showed me their report in strict confidence. Its purport was as follows: that we still were in possession of our privileges, that even a mere representation to the Assembly would be too strong an action, etc. He was dissatisfied with it, laid the blame on M., and said: it should be recommitted! But after I had waited several days, I received the following document from the President himself, when I visited him on the 16th. [Here follows Laurens’ May 16 letter to Ettwein.] “Since he gave me verbal permission to make use of this, I gathered his intent, thanked him for his kind treatment, and journeyed to Lancaster.” See “A Short Account of the Disturbances in America and of the Brethren’s Conduct and Suffer ing in the Connection,” in Hamilton, John Ettwein, pp. 203-5. Despite Laurens’
