May 16, 1778 689 The treaty with France is so favorable to the United States, & so much beyond what has been ever done on such like occasions in the world before, that in return I shall by virtue of my sovereign power, not only recognize the King of France as the most Christian, but also the most wise, most just, most generous and most magnanimous of Princes. Now for some disagreeable intelligence. The Enemy, about a thousand in number, in row-gallies, flat-bottomed boats &c have been up at Bordentown, destroyed our frigates, row-gallies & all the vessels there, and burned Mr. Borden’s house, the tavern he devised to Josey M:Kean, Mr. Hopkinson’s and on the opposite shore all Mr Kirk bride’s buildings. I should be glad to hear from you by the way of Lancaster, and to know when you imagine the Boys will be ready to go to school. Goods are falling very fast—Coffee is retailed here, the very best, at 17/6, tho’ it was 22/6 two weeks ago. I am, my dear Sally, with love & kisses to the children, Your affec tionate, Thos M:Kean P.S. Yesterday the Officers in the army are allowed half-pay for seven years after the end of the present war. Colo. Francis Johnston upon my recommendation, and without his sollicitation or knowledge, is appointed Commissary-General of Prisoners in the stead of Mr. Boudinot, who has resigned in order to take his seat in Congress. 2 RC (PHi). 1 The following information was contained in Caesar Rodney’s May 8 letter to McKean, which is in Rodney, Letters (Ryden), pp. 267-68. 2 See Henry Laurens to Francis Johnston, May 11, 1778, note 1. Marine Committee to the Middle Department Navy Board Gentlemen May 16th 1778 You are to appoint a Clerk & Treasurer for your Board and a Clerk for the Pay Office. You are to call upon Mr Lux for and Liquidate any Accounts he may have against the Continent as Continental Agent. You are to call upon 8c settle Mr Jonathan Hudsons Account for Superintending the building of the Brig Baltimore. You are to call upon Mr Stephen Steward whom we have appointed to settle the outstanding accounts and pay off the wages of the seamen of the Virginia and receive of him such Accounts as he hath collected as well paid as unpaid, and also his receipts for Seamens wages, and
