692 May 17, 1778 brought duplicates of the treaty, which was brought over by Mr. Dean. I have the pleasure to inform you that the Dean frigate, Capt. Nicholson, &: a 20 gun ship part of the fleet expected from France are arrived the one at Portsmouth the other at Boston. Doer. Cooper of Boston writes to Mr. Lovel a member of Congress of the 6th instant that most of the fleet expected from France were safely arrived, & Capt. Courier told me the day he left Boston several vessels were coming into port, so that in all probability all the expected supplies of cloathing &c &c will get safe to hand. This is great & glorious news. We were very uneasy respecting the fate of our little fleet which con sisted of about 10 or 11 sail, and which sailed from France very late in February. I am at loss to account for you not writing to me by the last post. I form a thousand conjectures; perhaps your letter may have been mislaid. I hope you are all well; if that was not the case, I am sure you would send off an express for me, that is Sam with horses to bring me home. Give my affectionate love to Molly. I hope she is much better than when She wrote to me last. My love to Mrs. Darnall & the little ones. By late accounts from the Camp our army is encreasing fast. God grant you a long continuance of health. I am, Yr. affectionate Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton P.S. I forgot to mention that Doer. Franklin was presented to the King of France in form the 20th of March and most graciously reed. The King of France has appointed an Ambassador to these States, and a Committee was this day named for fixing the ceremonial of his reception. I am one of the Committee. Mr. Carmichael is arrived at Boston in the fleet above mentioned from France. In Congress 19th May. Gen. Mifflin has reed, a letter from Col. Biddle containing the following articles of intelligence—vizt that the Enemy have embarked their heavy cannon, that the stalles for their cavalry are compleated; that the Tories of Pha. have hired houses in N. York, in short from every appearance we may soon expect to see Pha. aban doned by the Enemy. It is said Gen. Howe is returned; he probably met when he got to the capes of Delaware with counter orders. We expect every hour dispatches from our General; but if it be true that that this day he will move towards Pha. he will too busy to write. A hot press has lately taken place in Pha. Whigs & Tories have been pressed on board without distinction. RC (MdHi).
