696 May 17, 1778 Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes Dear Sir, 17th May [1778] My last private is dated the 1st Inst. & forwarded by Messenger Cross since which I have been honoured with your Excellencys favors of the 13th & 18th April as acknowledged in a public Address of the 14th Inst. I presented & read these to Congress as public 8c received great satisfaction from the attention which was paid to the whole 8c not less from the applause generally expressed upon particular articles. Men are pleased with instances of watchfulness over the public Stock even when they are not themselves half so attentive to expenditures as they ought to be. As Your Excellency’s Letters are Committed, 8c the Merits of course are to undergo the consideration of Congress, it would be improper in me to decide on any part. I shall therefore speak to a few points in general terms without pretending higher authority than my own. The insurrections in our State 8c the affected Invasion upon Georgia were alarming, but I apprehend the whole appearance of danger has vanished before this day. The policy of St. Augustine, ’tis probable, led them to threaten, in order to avert a stroke which in their own weak state they dreaded at home. 1 ’Tis to be lamented that another Season is lost in which we ought to have removed the Enemy from that Quarter. I do not see at present any ground for apprehensions of a preconcerted Plan for attacking So. Carolina in front; we ought nevertheless to be continually prepared, guarded & watchful, this has been my sentiment from the earliest date of the War, 8c I have not lost the Idea of our receiving a brush from the tail of that Comet which has spread flames in these northern States. The Scotch are indeed exceedingly zealous in raising Troops but these must supply de ficiencies in the Numbers expected from Germany 8c will be wanted there or in the West Indies. The Enemy cannot be ignorant of the value of So Carolina 8c Georgia, 8c will assuredly call upon them at a leisure day; a persuasion of this fact on our part will lead us into such measures for defence 8c safe retreat as will render the work more arduous on theirs. One branch we ought to be most especially attentive to, it is abso lutely necessary to be jealous of every stranger 8c of every doubtful Character in the State, particularly so, in the Capital 8c other Sea Ports. If it were possible to procure a person, or more than one person whose business should be unknown to each other, to discover the errand of every Master of Vessel 8c of every Stranger coming in to our Country no expence would be too great for the purpose; Where bosoms are found impenetrable much discovery may be made by
