698 May 17, 1778 So. Carolina for public services, you would have been more cautious of draining our private Treasury. I had intimated when the draughts were given to Mr. Rose on the Loan Office that there was no Money there & that consequently the Bills would not be paid. I was really affected by the item of advance made on that account although made with the best intentions & my duty obliges me to add that more than one Member on the floor expressed dissatisfaction with the practice of advancing Money from a particular Treasury On general Account without special order. This was indeed rather applied to the advance made to the Commercial Agent. I was well pleased with the hint, persuaded in my own mind Your Excellency will not insist upon a second. 4 The taking up loan Office Certificates for raising Money seems to be very displeasing; If Money lenders will not deposit in that fund because of the low Interest, can a Negotiation in Trade be effected without a vast discount? Whatever this discount may be, it is kept out of Sight by laying the loss on the purchase. I refer only to the practice in this part of the Union. It has been asserted in Congress that a gainful infamous traffic has been carried on by some of our numerous hosts of honest Servants, by means of loan office Certificates, which have been, as they impudently pretended, passed for ready money; but the prices of articles produced by them were enhanced 25 to 50 Per Cent to the emolument of the contracting parties, I say sir, this has been asserted, & in a land abounding with practices of peculation & sacrilegious Robberies of public Money I find no difficulty in beleiving it, hence appears in another veiw the necessity for watchfulness. If the Evil had stopped in the instances alluded to, the loss would have been confined, but a door once opened to advanced prices corruption becomes contagious, pervades every branch of Commerce, calls for extra Millions, depre ciates the value of our Money, & threatens bankruptcy. There can be no doubt of the payment of Interest Money in Bills of Exchange in terms of the past resolves of Congress, but this is another Evil to be deprecated for the future. An attempt to renew this mode of Payment will be made, I shall as I did the former, oppose it with all my might. Some gentlemen now see the pernicious effects & acknowledge the justness of my predictions but when Men are Interested, their Sight fails on one side & continues extremely clear in the sinister view. Some shrewd remarks I learn have been made on the charge of our State account for the expence of the expedition against the Cherokees, it has been said, that Gentlemen were pleased with it, the Land Ceded by the Savages must of course be held as common property. The intimation came to me indirectly, through one of my Colleagues; at a proper time I shall be under no difficulty to find as proper an answer —precedent & Confederation will assist me. My Stated avocation will
