May 17, 1778 699 not spare me time for inspecting minutely, but I am pleased to learn that every charge which had been apparently incurred for the gen eral weal is introduced, I am under no doubt but our utmost intent will be fully countenanced. With respect to the little explanation between your Excellency & Genl. Moultrie it is sufficient to intimate that under the Resolve of Congress of the 9th Febry Governor Livingston Weeded out a num ber of useless & pernicious Officers in the State of New Jersey, among others a Dep. Qur. Master general, exactly a Case in point, for which I have once returned His Excellency the thanks of Congress—8c shall repeat the same tomorrow. Your Excellency’s refusing to grant Money before an account of the expenditure of former grants had been rendered has been marked with particular approbation, more of this will probably appear in the Report of the Committee, had Congress themselves given the ex ample two years ago millions would have been saved—we are but beginning—& seem rather disposed to put the labouring Oar into other hands but ’tis a momentous concern, in which each state is Interested 8c in which each executive in my humble opinion is in Duty bound seriously to interpose all their powers. It would take up the remainder of the Night were I to enlarge on this head by adducing Cases to prove the necessity for watchfulness over the public Stewards in every branch of expenditure meaning no imputation upon the Gentleman checked by your Excellency. The Sale of the General Moultries prize in a Dutch port is an Excellent prognostick of determinations at the Hague respecting these United States.® Poor old England, first cheat herself 8c now she will find she is bamboozled by all her Neighbors. Within this packet your Excellency will find an hand Bill contain ing the sarcastical declaration of the Ducke de Noailles to the Court of London of His Master’s alliance with the United States of America, which may possibly be new at Charles Town. Two days ago I transmitted an Act of Congress to the Governor of New Jersey 8c President of this State for conducting the Honorable John Penn 8c B. Chew, from the place of their confinement in the former to any place within the latter 8c there to release them from their parole when they will become amenable to the Law requiring all the Inhabitants to take an Oath of Allegiance 8c Abjuration 8c may make their election. ’Tis suggested by some Gentlemen they will take the Oaths 8c save their Estates. Your Excellency will read in the Connecticut paper the spirited reply of Govr. Trumbull to Mr. Tryon. This haughty Quondam must have suffered extreme mortification from the retorts upon his Certifi cates 8c empty Bills. 7 The Tories 8c Indians instigated at Detroit are become very trouble-
