May 17, 1778 701 that worthy Man in which he assures me the grand Council lately held at Valley forge had been conducted with perfect harmony 8c that he entertained the most favorable hopes from the plan concerted; hence I infer with the highest pleasure, he had a Cordial meeting & parting with the General & trust he will hereafter be aware of design ing flatterers. 11 General Burgoyne must now be far advanced toward the place where he may end his progress by a sudden stroke before his de parture. With great reluctance 8c not without great murmuring, he paid the Agents appointed by Major General Heath 94000 Dollars in solid Coin for the fuel supplied the British Troops last Winter, Transports are gone round to Boston to return the provision which those Troops consumed, in quantity & quality. We are now taking Measures for obtaining strong proofs of pre vailing Reports, that the Convention of Saratoga was broken on the part of Great Britain, & I am particularly desired by Congress to request your Excellency will without delay, cause an enquiry to be made of Captain Senf lately arrived in Charles Town respecting the Colours 8c Military Chest, 8c to transmit such intelligence by a faithful 8c expeditious Courier as may be received from that Gentleman. 12 Since his departure from this place it has been repeatedly intimated to me that he had said the Colours had been concealed in part of the Baggage declared sacred by an Article of the Convention 8c the Cash in the Military Chest deposited, in parts, in the hands of the Officers. I need not explain to your Excellency the vast importance of a detection of these frauds nor the absolute necessity for dispatch, nor that Captn. Senff ought to be examined touching other articles be sides those abovementioned 8c the whole upon Oath. Here we have also been somewhat dilatory, I urged the present determination up wards of two Months ago, within a few days of Captn Senf’s leaving this place. The fleet expected from France with Cloathing, ammunition &ca 8cca arrived about 14 days ago at Boston 8c Portsmouth 8c with them several very valuable prizes, no other particulars are received, except the naming 1 French 40 Gun Ship. Captn. Nicholson in one of the States Frigates 8c one other States Vessel, authentic 8c special advices I expect every hour. Spain reserves herself for the arrival of her plate fleet looked for in April, when if England shall have declared War against France she will enter the lists 8c Portugal has certainly acceded to the family Compact. Spain affects much munificence towards this Infant World, when I am at Liberty I will explain to Your Excellency that my singular opinion respecting her views prove to be well founded. I communicated my suspicions to my Colleague the Cheif Justice 8c beleive he has improved upon them in some of his advices to Charles
