702 May 17, 1778 Town, he said he would. At present that Gentleman is a truant, has been a fortnight on a Visit to Camp for which I shall salute his return with a little scold. A Man of his abilities & diligence I wish to have ever present. After two Months labor on a scheme for half pay to officers, in which, as a Silent auditor & Spectator, I was Witness to many excel lent & some violent Strokes in parliamentary Mancevre, a long Report of a Committee, ridden by amendments 8c New Resolves, the original project by the Grace of God, was the day before yesterday rid to Death, & from the Ashes, the inclosed Act of Congress of the 15th May, produced. I transmitted it Instantly to the Commander in Cheif; I shall learn in a day or two its reception in Camp. Congress have now Entered heartily upon the general Arrangement of the Army 8c will get through without difficulty. Your Excellency will receive in a seperate Packet 13.Sets of Marine Commissions 8cca all I have at present 8c all in my opinion that ought to be used until amendments suitable to our change of Circumstances are made. I have addressed Congress on this subject 8c hope we shall find time for the purpose immediately after finishing the arrange ment—also 20 Military Commissions which may serve in cases of exigency until I transmit more, with the Report on your Excellency’s Letters. The impropriety of my predecessors conduct in Signing 8c spreading in every quarter Commissions in the moment of his retiring was obvious, it has been necessary for me to replace thousands in the several departments. 13 It did not become me to restrain the act, but a remark escaped my Lips "My friend imitates General Vaughan who when he found it expedient to withdraw from Hudson’s Banks rav aged the Country.” Some officers inadvertently hold Commissions under such premature signature, not worth a rash. Your Excellency will be pleased to receive this as a performance accomplished in scraps of time after 4 or 5 different efforts. Tis now the 19th. I have the honor to be with very great Respect. 19th 3 oClock P.M. Just as I was about to close this Packet an acct, from Camp arrived. The Enemy in Philada are in motion but their manoevres 8c Stra tagems keep their real intentions inexplicable. All is conjecture. ’Tis said Sir Wm. Howe is returned, that their heavy Cannon are actually embarked. They have commited cruel Ravage on all the fruit Trees in & about the City. These they have stuck in a Semi-Circle on the Common 8c hung Lantherns upon each. Their design may be to attack General Washington—to get quietly off 8c go safely down the River with every moveable worth transporting—to penetrate the Jersey 8c cross over to New York. 8cc 8cc. 14
