May 17, 1778 705 [P.S.] A Gentleman from the City assures us Sir William Howe em barked for England on Tuesday last & left Sir H Clinton in Com mand. RC (PHi). Addressed: “Francis Hopkinson & John Wharton Esquires, Baltimore.’’ ’See JCC, 11:493. In an April 29 memorial to Congress, Hopkinson and Wharton had requested reimbursement for expenses they had incurred while performing services outside the scope of their duties as commissioners. See PCC, item 41, 4:31-32. This day Laurens also wrote a brief note to William Smith of Baltimore, in forming him that on May 9 Congress had appointed him “a Commissioner of the Navy Board in the Middle district.” See PCC, item 13, fol. 325; and JCC, 11:484. Smith took the place of John Nixon, who had resigned from the board. Oliver Wolcott to Andrew Adams Sir, York Town 17t May 1778 Your Favour of the 2d instant is reed. Your other Letters except that of the 2d March have failed. The Post now rides regularly, Let ters put into that offiece will therefore come safe. I was sorry to hear of your Want of Health. I Wish it may soon be restored to you. I hope it will be convenient for some one to relieve me in the Course of a Month. Altho I shall think it my Duty to continue in Congress during the present interesting Period ’till a full Representa tion is had, yet I have not the least Wish to prolong the Period of my Service. The Count Noalles Memorial, The Speech of Georgientus and his Wise Parliament you have seen. They Observe that they are much Inclined to bc Angry at the Conduct of France, but Wheather they will really be so We shall soon know. As to the Regulating Act which you Mention No one here thinks any Thing of it. A Recommendation would before now have gone from Congress to suspend it had it not been Apprehended it might have been disagreable to our State. I Am Very well perswaded that there is but a single Member in Congress in favour of it. 1 The States may certainly do what they please either to continue or suspend the Act without giving any offence. There is a Regulating Act in the Jersys and N [York. In] this State they made one and immediately suspended it and for ever will suspend it. I shall say nothing as to the Act—you know my Opinion. And I hope that this political Experiment will be so thoroly made as that there can be no Occasion to repeat it. I am sir, your Obedient Servant, Oliver Wolcott
