706 May 17, 1778 P.S. Duplicates of the Treatys with France have just Now been Brot. to Congress. No other Material Intelligence is reed than what We before had—Exceapt that Dr. Franklin was formally reed, on the 20 March as Ambassador to the French Court from these States. That Court has likewise Nominated an Ambassador to Reside here. RC (CtY). 1 For Wolcott’s earlier comments on the act for regulating prices, indicating that Roger Sherman favored such legislation, see Wolcott to Andrew Adams, April 25, 1778. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, York Town 17t May 1778 I have Wrote you three Letters since the beginning of this Month, one a few Days ago enclosed in a Letter to Mr. Lord. 1 I still injoy Health. May I be thankfull to him who bestows it upon me. I was in hopes to have reed, a Letter from you, but Brown says he passed the Town so soon that you had not Time to Write. However I was informed by him and by a Letter from Dr. Smith that you was well. By this Letter I am also informed you had the misfortune to lose a couple of your [Cows?]. Evils We must expect. This I hope will give you no great Pain. Yale College Corporation Dr. Smith tells me are much offended by a Letter I wrote to Oliver, and suggests it may possibly have some influence pritty Material upon the Election. 2 If so I shall give myself no concern. If my Election can depend upon (so precarious a Tenure} such a frivolous Circumstance I should most willingly {quit} lose it, Altho my Desire of continuing in the Assembly was much greater than I certainly know it now is. What Business the Corporation have with a Copy of my Letter I cannot conceive. Does any one think to prevent me from writing to a Freind any Thing which I apprehend to be true. Certainly I never will be under that Restraint. Oliver perhaps was oblidged to shew the Letter to his Tutor, or might have suffered a Freind to take a Copy of it. At most it must have been but an Inadvertance and I have no Inclination either to blame him or myself at present—and beleive I shall have no Occasion to do it. I feel Very Innocent and consequently totally unconcerned about this affair. This Day Duplicates of the Treatys with France were bro’t to Congress. But no Material Intelligence was bro’t—but what you must have heard of. Dr. Franklin was formerly Admitted at the Court of Versailles as Embasedor for these States on the 20t. March. That Court Will soon send over an Ambassador to Reside here. Brown bro’t Me a Letter from Mr. Adams wherein he says that he
