May 18, 1778 707 is not well and thinks that he shall not come to Congress. I hope I shall be releived before long. If Mr. Adams does not come I shall expect the Other Gentlemen will and take the Places of Mr. Hunt ington, and Mine at farthest by the Time that Brown comes back. In the Mean Time may the Almighty Bless you. My Love to my Children and Freinds. I am yours Affectionately, Oliver Wolcott 3 RC (CtHi). 1 Only Wolcott’s May 2 and May 9 letters to Laura have been found. Neither Wolcott’s letter to “Mr. Lord” nor his letter to his son Oliver mentioned below has been found. 2 On May 14, 1778, Wolcott and his colleagues Samuel Huntington and Roger Sherman were elected Assistants on the Connecticut Council. Public Records o/ Connecticut, 2:3. 3 On May 20 Wolcott wrote another brief letter to Laura in which he reported: “Our latest Accounts from Philadelphia are that the Enemy are about leaving that City, this May be probably true. We shall Very soon know What Part G. Britain Will take. This is an important Moment and We are happy by the favourable Appearance of Things, and flatter ourselves that the Power of the Enemy is upon a fast decline. The Indians are ravaging and Murdering the People on the Western Frontiers. The Conduct of G. Britain in setting on the Savages to Murder indis criminately as they do every human Being who falls into their Power ought never be forgot.” Oliver Wolcott, Sr., Papers, CtHi. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir York Town May 18th. 1778. The Inclosd Resolution of Congress is the result of the most pain full & disagreable question that hath ever been Agitated in Congress. 1 The question was Steerd before Col. Dyer left Congress & he will be able to give Some account of the matter & Sentiments of many of the States thereon. A most disagreable 8c serious debate hath Continued about seven weeks, a bill being brot. in for an half pay Establishment for life for the officers 8c to their widows during their widowhood; Several Collateral questions were determind on the progress of the debate which Shewed that Eight of the States were in favour of the Estab lishment for life 8cc as above, Rhode Island, Connecticutt, New Jersey, 8c South Carolina strenuously in the negative, New Hampshire being absent. General Washington wrote repeatedly upon the Subject expressing his great concern; 8c the necessity of the measure, in one of his Letters he Says that altho he never would take any benefit of such an Estab lishment himself, yet he did most religiously believe the Salvation of the Army depended upon it, 2 many of the States deemed the
