May 18, 1778 709 RC (Ct). Written by Huntington and signed by Huntington, Sherman, and Wolcott. 1 For the May 15 resolves granting half pay to commissioned officers for seven years and eighty dollars to soldiers and noncommissioned officers at the end of the war, see JCC, 11:502-3. 2 See Washington’s April 10 letter to President Laurens in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:235-41. 2 In his April 23 reply to William Tryon's April 17 request that he publicize Lord North’s conciliatory bills, Trumbull had observed that “propositions of peace are usually made from the supreme authority of one contending power, to the similar authority of the other; and the present, is the first instance within my recollection when a vague, half blank, and very indefinite draught of a bill once only read before one of the three bodies of the Legislature of the nation has ever been addressed to the people at large of the opposite power, as an overture of reconciliation.” After emphatically stating that British recognition of American independence was a prerequisite to establishing peace, Trumbull pointed out that it was to Congress that all peace proposals should be addressed. The conciliatory bill and letters of Tryon and Trumbull had been published in the May 5, 1778, issue of the Connecticut Courant and it was probably a copy of this paper that Trumbull enclosed with his May 5 letter to President Laurens, which was read in Congress on May 15. See JCC, 11:501. For Trumbull’s subsequent correspondence with William Tryon, see Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., June 5, 1778. 4 Governor Caswell’s April 26 letter reporting that North Carolina had ratified the articles of confederation was read in Congress this day. JCC, 11:506-7. 5 Huntington and Wolcott had also written a brief letter to Trumbull on May 15 acknowledging “Your Excellency’s Favour of the 5th inst by Brown who arrived last evening & will be detain’d a day or two—by him we shall write more fully.” Peter Force Collection, DLC. William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir, 1 York-Town May 18th. 1778. I have received the powers and instructions respecting the confed eration, and agreeably to a resolution of the house laid the proposed alterations and amendments on the table last Wednesday. The confederation was to have been taken up last Saturday; but was kept back by some pressing business. I do not expect that any of the amendments proposed by our State will take place, excepting that for taking estimates every five years. 2 If the confederation should be ratified before two delegates should arrive from our State it will be unrepresented; for, as I have long since informed the assembly, I shall be obliged to return home very soon. It is now about two years since I first attended Congress, and during that time, four months only excepted, the State hath been represented by one delegate. The saving thus occasioned will I hope enable the Assembly in future to keep up three members constantly in Congress; so long at least as it shall sit at such a distance from Rhode-Island. The necessity of this measure of having always three
