May 18, 1778 711 prepared to drive them off, or Burgoyne them where they be. I Shall be much Obliged if you will please to Send me by the post or first Opportunity a news paper containing the List of Representa tives for the present Session of Assembly, all or any Intelligence that Occurs. As Mr Brown is Setting off must refer you for farther particulars, & the proceedings of Congress to the Governors letter of this date and am with Esteem your humble Servt, Sami Huntington RC (CtHi). Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais My Dear Sir, 18th May [1778] I beg leave to refer you to mine of the 3d & 4th Inst, by Cross since which I have been honoured with yours of the 19th Ulto. I can say nothing in reply to it but my gratulations on the apparent recovery of Mrs. Gervais’s health. My best Compliments to the good Lady & assure her tis now my firm opinion & serious advice that you ought not &: should not get another Wife. I have poured forth crowds of News to His Excellency the president which you will learn there & I add some of our printed pieces which you may read at home, having gone through the labor of Copying the Treaties, signing, sealing & transmitting for Exchange a Copy of the Treaty of Commerce will be immediately published. I hope that of Alliance too, but some of my friends appear to be more nice than I hold to be discreet, or respectful toward the people at large & there will be some opposition to printing the whole. Major General Lee has joined the Army which I hear from J.L. is in fine order. My Dear friend God bless you. [P.S.] I beg you will write to Mr. Galphin. Tell him a Colonel Brown has paid me on his account fourteen hundred & Sixty Dollars—this Sum I request you to pay to Mr. Galphins Order immediately. I will write to my good old friend in a few days, make an apology for present omission. LB (ScHi). Henry Laurens to William Moultrie Dear General, 18th May [1778] On the 13th Inst I was honoured with your favor of the 20th April; the next Morning I presented it to Congress & it was ordered with
