714 May 19, 1778 Committee for Foreign Affairs to Jesse Brown Mr Brown [May 19? 1778] 1 Directions have been sent for one Vessel to be prepared in Con necticut; two in Massachusetts Bay and one in New Hampshire: and you have packets marked A. B. C. of great importance put under your care, which you are to carry with proper Secresy & dispatch, and to deliver according to the following directions. If his Excellency Governor Trumbull has a Vessel quite ready at your arrival there, you will deliver A to him. If he is but in expecta tion of having one ready Shortly, leave B with him. If he has no prospect or only a distant one, carry all the packets to Boston where you are to leave A B with the honorable President of the Council, and to proceed with C to Portsmouth, where you are to deliver it to the Continental agent John Langdon Esq., taking receipts for each delivery. Should you convey from Connecticut only two Sets, deliver but one at Boston, unless both Vessells are ready or will be ready in the time that would be required for your proceeding to Portsmouth. Should you proceed to the last mentioned place, and find Col. Langdon not prepared, you will let him know the state of the busi ness at Boston and Connecticut, so that he may use his judgement about the keeping the packet for an opportunity of conveyance, or sending it back, to one of the other places. Signed James Lovell FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). Addressed: “Instructions for the Express.” 1 These instructions were apparently written as the committee completed preparations to send three packets of foreign dispatches to France via various New England ports. See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., this date. Committee for Foreign Affairs to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. York Town, May 19th 1778 Your Excellency having been requested by the marine Committee to have a Packet Boat in Readiness to carry important Dispatches to France, we have now sent such to your Care, conditionally; which we desire you to give in Charge to a trusty Captain, to deliver with his own Hands to our Commissioners at Paris. 1 Your Wisdom will dictate pointed Orders for conveying the Packets without Injury, with Secresy & with Dispatch; but, for sinking them in Case the Vessel should be unfortunately taken. 2 We are respectfully, Your Excellency’s Humble Servants, Richard Henry Lee James Lovell
