May 19, 1778 719 We have this Morning in Congress conformed to the Stile adopted in the Treaty of Paris—the United States of North America. I am with very great Respect LB (ScHi). Henry Laurens to John Wells Dear Sir. 19th May [1778] I can say nothing more in return to your obliging Letter of the 20th April but that the Bill for 200 Dollars lies on my Table—after your own misfortune I had ventured to disclosure to Mr. Hall the name of his friend & I added for his sake & yours & my own a Moiety of your donation. 1 His Excellency the President will give you Govr. Trumbull’s an swer to Mr. Tryon’s Complimentary Certificate upon empty Bills, & within this Inclosure you will receive bundles of printed Papers. If you write to me often & copiously I will acknowledge a debt & like other very honest planters if I can’t be punctual in payment I will allow Interest & make you my factor. Govr. Livingston in a private Letter which I have just now opened says Huzza for Congress. I am with great regard [P.S.] When you read Dalrymple’s encomium on his Countrymen for their immense Zeal in raising Troops for subduing America, you will either be ashamed of being or wish you were not a Scotsman—or neither. 2 They are certainly in that Quarter ardently Striving to play the Devil with us—but they may catch a Tartar & the Devil will catch them. The face of affairs is a little altered since the date of Mr. Dalrymple’s piece & poor Sanders may be sent to catch Negroes from Barbadoes to Jamaica or to have his patticoats turned up at Ports- down. LB (ScHi). 1 John Wells’ April 20 letter to Laurens is in the William Gilmore Simms Collec tion deposit, MHi. This day Laurens also wrote a brief letter to William Brown of Boston, enclosing “Daniel Beaurdeau’s [Beaudreau’s?] Bill 8th April 1778 on Wm. Erskine Esqr. Boston payable at sight to John Wells & by him & myself endorsed two hundred Dollars” and asking him to use it to “purchase the best Mens large white Silk Hose [and] if you can find room take in 4 or 6 pounds of the very best Coffee you can get.” Laurens Papers, ScHi. 2 In January 1778 John Dalrymple, the lord provost of Edinburgh, had sent an address to the king in behalf of the government of the city offering to raise a regiment of 1,000 men to serve in America. London Chronicle, January 27-29, 1778.
