May 20, 1778 723 reject her terms vengeance will follow & this Infant World will be exposed to the pressure of her full power; for it does not appear that France & Spain are yet disposed to make the first declaration of hostility. In this view, I perceive a long train of direful consequences to America, but this is likewise speculative &: I am not furnished with sufficient premises for a larger discussion. Your remarks on the temper of the people on this side the Atlantic I conceive Sir, will not apply to the great Majority. Britain by her unexampled Cruelties has rooted out the former affections of America towards her, it will indeed be her aim, because it is her Interest to recover that loss, but before this can be accomplished, the benefits of an universal acquaintance & of an unrestrained Commerce with the World at large will be so generally experienced as to throw an insu perable Bar against any Bias in her favor. In America Great Britain will be regarded as one of the European States & just so far as Interest & Policy shall direct will she be entitled to the friendships of a people whom she had attempted to enslave, whom she had wantonly pro scribed &: most unmercifully persecuted; the detail will be transfused in American Almanacs from year to year & every Peasant will be taught to rejoice on the anniversary of deliverance; nor will the stile of “Protector of the Rights of Mankind” be read without its proper impressions & effects. I wait with some anxiety to learn the further movements in Phila delphia, we are just now told that there is an appearance of retiring from New York, if this be true it works another mystery which time must unfold. Our present policy is to assemble a large Army as the best foundation for treaty & the best guard against tricks. I am re joiced to learn that at Valley forge the Army is greatly improved by the unwearied attention & great skill of Major General Baron Steu ben. I have the honor to be &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 Louis Le Beguc de Presle Duportail (1743-1802), a French engineering officer, became colonel of engineers in the Continental Army in July 1777 and rose to the rank of brigadier general in November of that year. Elizabeth S. Kite, Brigadier- General Louis Lebegue Duportail, Commandant of Engineers in the Continental Army (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins Press, 1933), pp. 11-34. Henry Laurens to Baron de Kalb Dear General. 20th May [1778] With your favor of the 16th 1 came two Packets directed to Monsr. Gerard, which shall be carefully disposed of, the former of this direc tion, together with one for Compte Broglie & one for Monsr. de St. Paul are on their way to Boston to be embarked there in the same
