724 May 20, 1778 vessel in which the dispatches from Congress to the Ambassador Franklin are to be sent forward. I do not find that War was declared in England the 23d March. Commissioners for the American business were named & were soon to proceed on their Embassy, a very valuable French Ship called the Henriette just now arrived at Boston had been 43 hours in possession of the Enemy & suffered to proceed. From these circumstances it appears Great Britain was disposed to more deliberation than when she was wont to commence hostilities antecedent to a declaration. I have sent your Letter to Mr. Thomson. The Chevalier Failly may safely acquit General Gates who has done every thing in his power to obtain that Gentleman’s promotion according to promise; Monsr. Failly I believe received General Gates’s paper from me, in which he had signified the Merits of that Officer & earnestly requested Con gress to order him a Colonel’s Commission, the consideration was postponed till the arrangement of the Army should be completed, this will probably be in three or four days. 2 If Monsr. Failly will reposses me of that paper I will endeavor to introduce it again & to gain the assistance of Gentlemen to obtain what appears to me to be no more than due regard to General Gates &: justice to the Chevalier. I am with very great Esteem LB (ScHi). 1 Kalb’s May 16 letter to Laurens is in the William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, MHi; a transcript of it is in the Laurens Papers, ScHi. 2 The chevalier de Failly finally received a commission as brevet colonel on October 27, 1778. JCC, 12:1068. For some account of his previous efforts to attain this rank, see Laurens to Lafayette, March 6, 1778, note 3. Henry Laurens to George Washington Si r> York Town 20th May 1778 I had this Morning the honor of receiving & presenting to Congress Your Excellency’s favor of the 18th which is Committed to the Committee on the Army. 1 Inclosed Your Excellency will receive extract of a Letter from General Sullivan of the 3d Inst. & an Order of Congress thereon. 2 Also one branch of the Army arrangement which Congress Resolved this Morning, for establishing a Provost—the transmission of this detached article arises from an opinion in Congress that the measure ought to be immediately carried into Execution. 3 A proposition having been intimated for allowing subsistence Money to Officers in lieu of part of the customary Rations 4 this article & that of Pay are reserved as the last points for consideration. The
