May 21, 1778 729 or later break out into a Retribution of those Act 8c Neglects which at present pass away unnoticed by the Herd of Observers or rather of Lookers on. As to your Friend who hath thought proper to demand of you a Command, I did beleive from the first that his Resignation was like some former ones from the same Quarter meerly calculated to gain either Promotion or Favor or Revenge. 2 I was therefore led to expect that his Merits and our Misfortune in loosing him would become the Topick of Declamation 8c took the earliest Opportunity to express in the very strongest Terms my Satisfaction my Joy at the Receipt of the Letter from him and of Consequence to assign the Reasons why this Event gave me so much Pleasure. This gave a very different Turn to Affairs. Panegyrick dwindled to Apology and no Opposition was made to the main Point of accepting his Resignation. The next Day I was informed that he did not intend to resign, that his Letter was quite misunderstood 8cca. The Gentleman however had been so un lucky as to use the most pointed terms and therefore his Aid from whom the Information came was told that the observations he made came too late. I am perswaded that he will attempt to get reinstated if the least Probability of Success appears but I am equally perswaded that his Attempts will fail. I beleive his Friends are hitherto of that same Opinion and therefore we have as yet had no attempts made in Congress and possibly we never shall. I wish you would contrive to get the necessary Returns from Mary land Troops and others who have not made them so as that the arrangement may take Place as soon as possible. Believe me, Dr General, very sincerely yours, Gouv Morris RC (DLC). 1 Washington had expressed surprise at the behavior of Thomas Mifflin, "who some time ago . . . was desirous of resigning, now stepping forward in the line of the Army.” “That Gentleman’s stepping in, and out,” Washington went on to observe, “as the Sun happens to beam forth or obscure is not quite the thing, nor quite just with respect to those Officers who take the bitter with the Sweet.” See his May 18 letter to Morris in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:414. ’Washington was concerned by reports that his old nemesis Thomas Conway was seeking reinstatement in the army. Ibid. Gouverneur Morris to Anthony Wayne Dr Wayne. York Town 21st May 1778. Colo. Johnson delivered me yours of the 16th. I am sorry the busi ness of the Army hath been so long delayed. For your Comfort I have to assure you that it goes on tho not with the Rapidity You and I and every Body else wish. Your good Morals in the Army give me
