730 May 21, 1778 sincere Pleasure as it hath long been my fixed Opinion that Virtue and Religion are the great sources of human Happiness. More espe cially is it necessary in your Profession firmly to rely upon the God of Battles, for his Guardianship and Protection in the dreadful Hour of Trial. But of all these Things you will and I hope in the merciful Lord you have been made fully acquainted by that pious young Man Friend Hutchinson. What will be the Success of Colo. Johnson’s Application I know not; hope favorable. 1 Adieu. Pray beleive me with great Sincerity, yours, Gouvr Morris RC (PHi). 1 On May 23 Congress rejected Col. Francis Johnston’s request to retain his rank in the line while serving as commissary general of prisoners. See JCC, 11:525; and Henry Laurens to Johnston, May 11, 1778, note 1. Henry Laurens to Francis Bailey Sir, 22d May [1778] Inclosed you will receive an Act of Congress of this date, for ex empting & disqualifying Deserters from the Enemy, from acting as Miiitia Men or subsitutes, which you will be pleased to print in hand Bills in pure German. 500 Copies. I shall direct a person to call on you to Morrow or on Monday for 250 Copies, send 250 Copies to me, as the work is short I hope to receive these by the present bearer. I am with great respect &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Henry Laurens to John Bayard Sir, 22d May [1778] Inclosed you will receive an Act of Congress of the 19th Inst, con taining a Report from the Board of War on a Memorial from the General Assembly of this State; and a Resolution founded on that Report for an enquiry into the building Forts at Ligonier & Hana’s Town & for examining Accounts of the Expence attending the same. 1 I am with great respect &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “John Bayard Esqr. Speaker of the Assembly, Lancaster.” 1 On April 14 Congress read and referred to the Board of War an April 2 memor ial from the Pennsylvania Assembly asking Congress to pay for the construction of two forts in Westmoreland County that local officials had recently erected to stave off British and Indian attacks. After considering this memorial, the board reported to Congress on May 19 that it had been unable to determine if the two posts
