May 23, 1778 733 quickly conveyed to them of his, a Body said to consist of at least 6000, by a forced March had penetrated the Country & nearly sur rounded him. We have received no authentic account of his Retreat, but an Officer who had been of the detachment, represents it in a light very honorable to the Marquis, effected without loss. The Enemy came up to the River immediately after he had passed it with Troops & Cannon breast deep. They looked at the Marquis & re turned to the City. Colo. Harrison from Virginia with about 500 of his Regiment of Artillery a Corps of fine appearance is here on his way to Valley forge. The Enemy’s Vessels marked in the Pennsylvania Gazette as taken in Georgia with the Galatia which I hope is also taken or destroyed amount to a Capture of high Value to the United States, they had long infested the Coast & interupted hundreds of Vessels bringing supplies to us & transporting produce from So Carolina & Georgia. Congress have adapted the Stile introduced in the Treaties of Paris of the 6th Febry. “the United States of North America.” I have the honor to be [P.S.] Two French vessels at Wilmington, one at Beaufort, one at Edenton, all in North Carolina are just arrived &: said to contain useful & valuable Cargoes. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 'Governor Clinton’s May 13 letter to Laurens is in PCC, item 67, 2:114-16. In it Clinton asked Congress to extend the June 10, 1778, deadline for implementing an April 23 resolve that urged state legislatures to pass laws or state executives to issue proclamations offering pardons to loyalists who agreed to submit to American authority. See JCC, 10:381-82. This extension was necessary in New York, the gov ernor explained, because he did not have the constitutional authority to issue such a proclamation and the legislature was not due to reconvene until June. Despite this plea, Congress did not extend the June 10 deadline. Along with his letter Clinton also sent Laurens a list of laws passed by the state legislature in response to various recommendations of Congress and a May 4 letter from a New York militia officer dealing with reports of the military situation in northern New York and Canada. PCC, item 67, 2:118-20. Henry Laurens to William Heath Sir, York Town, 23d May 1778. My last was the 19th by Brown since which I have not been hon oured with any of your favors, as appears by the list sent in by the Secretary, although I think he has omitted one received by Mr. Brails ford, which time will not permit me at this Instant to enquire into. The Gentleman who is so good as to conduct this, waits while I write. I shall address you again by Brailsford in four or five days. At present please to receive an Act of Congress of the 22d Inst, approving your
