736 May 23, 1778 jects of your Letter are committed to the Board of War & continue unreported. I have the honor to be &ca. 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 General Sullivan’s May 3 letter to Laurens, outlining the needs of his Rhode Island command, is in PCC, item 160, fols. 111-12, and Sullivan, Papers (Ham mond), 2:46-48. Accordingly, on June 13 Congress asked the delegates of Connecti cut, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire to write to their state governments and urge them to send troops to Rhode Island. JCC, 11:605. 2 See Laurens to Washington, May 20, 1778, note 2. 3 Laurens also wrote a brief letter this day to former Commissary General Joseph Trumbull, transmitting a May 19 resolve on the settlement of Trumbull’s accounts. See PCC, item 13, fol. 334; and JCC, 11:509. Gouverneur Morris to John Jay Dr Jay, York Town 23d May 1778 I send you the Translation of a Letter to which is subjoined the following Note. “The Members of Congress from New York may pos sibly some of them know the Mr Hartwig above mentioned. A com munication of such Intelligence as may be had concerning him will oblige their very humble Servant, B Franklin. Passy near Paris 28 Jany 78.” Mr Johannis Christopher Hartwig or Hartwick a Native of Gotha, having made Theology his study went to London in 1744, was or dained a Minister of the Gospel and sent by Order of the King to America. There he became a Preacher at the Camp and at Rhinebeck for many years. His Reputation & Zeal obtained for him at the Close of the last War the Post of superintendant to the Churches in Vir ginia and his Circumstances were in other Respects so flourishing that he became possessed of a considerable real Estate in Albany. The last Letter to his Family he dates the 19th Novr 1773 and told them that he is not maried, that his age'will no longer permit him to per form the Duties of his office in the manner he formerly had fulfilled them and therefore he had resolved to return and spend the Re mainder of his Days in his native Country. Since that time his Family have heard nothing from him and if now living he is sixty five years of Age. It is requested that Doctor Franklin will have the Goodness to make some Enquiry into the Fate of the said Johann Christoph Hartwick and in Case he should have died to procure the necessary Intelligence as to the Estate he may have been possessed of and the
