740 May 23, 1778 from Manheim on May 19 to commissary of prisoners Elias Boudinot (on the sub ject of Lt. Andrew Robinson of the York County, Pa., militia, a prisoner in New York), Lloyd W. Smith Collection, NjMoHP; and on May 22 to William Lee at Paris (on the subject of his late brother Thomas Morris), Robert Morris Letters, ViHi. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dear Papa, 24 May 1778 Your letters by the last post, which I ought to have reed, last Mon day, I reed, last Wednesday; they went by mistake to Lancaster & were returned by the return post. A Law has passed in this State, of which you are probably ignorant, calling in all the money, issued under the Proprietary governt., by the 1st of next month; after that day it is not to pass: 1 persons having such monies 8c residing out of this State have a further time for bring ing them in—I believe till sometime in August. Do look over your cash, and select from it all bills passed by the Legislature of Pennsyl vania while under the dominion of G.B. You will find the Law in the Lancaster newspaper; probably it will be reprinted in Baltimore. I have written, 8c sent my letter to Col. Moylan recommending to his notice the person whom Mr. J. Howard wrote to me about. Please to inform Mr. Howard of this. It will always give me pleasure to render him such services. The Marquis de la Fayette crossed the Schuyilkill last Monday with 2300 men; he was ordered to draw near the city of Pha. and observe the enemy’s motions; it has then imagined they were about to leave Pha. The Enemy had very early information of the Marquiss march, 8c they laid a scheme to intercept him: on Mon day night they marched with 7000 men from Pha. in 3 columns taking different roads: one of these Columns had got in the rear of the Marquiss unperceived; the other was near his front, the 3d on his flank: from this perilous situation the Marquiss extricated himself by a rapid March to the Schuyilkill, which he passed with his whole detachment 8c altho the water was middle deep he brought off his men 8c cannon safe. As soon as he had gained this side of Schuyilkill he drew up, the Enemy on the other side looking on; the alarm guns at Gener. Washington’s camp firing gave the alarm to the Enemy’s column which had got in the rear of the Marquiss and they marched as quick back as they came out. Had this column attacked the Marquiss detachment, it is probable the whole would have been killed or taken. General Washington in his last letter (I think dated the 18) informed us he was of opinion, from all the accounts he had reed, from Pha.,
