May 24, 1778 741 that the Enemy were about to leave that city; his conjecture was that they were going to N. York, & from thence might possibly proceed to the W. Indies. Notwithstanding these appearances & the General's opinion founded on them, I am inclined to think the Enemy will not leave Pha. before the arrival of the Commissioners, who may be daily expected. If they do not acknowlege our Independence, but should have declared war agt. France, I am of opinon they will continue the war in this country and not carry their army to the W. Indies, to perish in that unwholsome climate. If Joe has finished all the Jobbs at Annapolis, I wish you would set him about preparing stones to line a cold bath; the stones already raised at the soap stone quarry would be sufficient for this purpose, as the bath need not be in the clear more than 10 feet long &: 8 broad & 4 feet, 6 inches deep. When I return I will direct where it shall be dug. Joe will be free some time next month, he may be engaged to stay till the bath is finished. I wrote to Skerret by last post to engage the Gardiner at £60 per annum wages. He is a sober & an industrious fellow, &: considering the little value of the money, & the dearness of cloaths, I do not think that sum much out of the way. Inclosed you have yesterday’s paper of this place, it contains all the news circulating here except what is above related & what follows. The only vessels arrived at the Eastward making part of the fleet which sailed from France the latter end of February are the Dean Frigate, and the Queen of France; the Duke de Choiseul one of this fleet is not yet arrived; she parted with the Dean off the western Islands in a gale of wind. Besides the above vessels, the Henrietta, a French Ship with a very valuable cargo, is arrived at Boston. She was in the Enemy’s possession 43 hours, all her papers were thrown over board. The Brigt Resistance is arrived at Boston from Martinico. Mr. Bingham, the Continental agent there, writes that the Govr. has reed, orders to put every thing in a posture of defence, &: to be pre pared as if war was certain. Do let me know in your next how the Vineyard thrives. Has the fruit suffered by frost this spring? If it has escaped hitherto, I hope there will be a good deal of it. Remember to answer this part of my letter. 25th P.M. I have yours & Molly’s of the 21st instant by this day’s post. It will not be in my power to attend the approaching session of our Assembly. There are but 3 Delegates from Maryd. now attending Congress, Plater, Henry, & Self. Mr. Henry will leave this the latter end of this week, or the beginning of next. The death of Mr. Stone’s brother will prevent his attendance for some time. Chase won’t be here till towards the middle of next month; altho’ he is not in our assembly, he will do well to attend it some time. I shall return home
