May 25, 1778 743 tieman of the Marine Committee the Necessity and Importance of keeping your Board duly supplyd with Cash to enable you effectually to do the duty of your department and was told that 50 thousand of Dollars had been lately remitted to you. 1 I will not fail to do what in me lies to forward that Service, as our Navy has always lain near my Heart. I am exceedingly pleasd to find that our Army makes a much bet ter Appearance than it has done since the Commencement of this War. It is very respectable in Point of Numbers and Discipline has been happily improvd by the Baron de Stuben who is appointed Inspector General with the Rank of Major General. 2 The invariable Accounts from Philadelphia are that the Enemy are making Prepara tions for an Embarkation, and it is expected they will soon leave that Place. Where they will proceed next you can as easily conjecture as we. I am not apprehensive of their visiting Boston; I wish however that more effectual Measures might be taken to strengthen & secure that Harbour & Town from Insult to which I think it is too much exposd. I recollect that your Election of Counsillors will come on the Day after tomorrow. Has Mr 3 waited for the Event of that im ¬ portant Day? or is he on his Journey to this Place? It is a matter of so much Uncertainty here, that Nothing, I suppose prevents many wagers being laid upon it, but its being not of so much Moment as some others. Was he present here, he might, if he pleasd, vindicate me against a Report which has given occasion to my Friends to rally me, that I have been called to Account and severely reprehended at a Boston Town Meeting for being in a Conspiracy against a very great Man. 4 You know how little I care for such Rumours. It is easy for me to conjecture by what Means it extended it self from Manheim where I first heard it to York Town; and it may not be difficult to guess how it came from Boston to that Place. Manheim is about 12 miles East of the Susquihanna; there lives Mr R.M. a very intimate Acquaintance of my excellent Friend. Mr H is said to be on the Road, but no one makes it certain. When he arrives Messrs Gerry & Dana propose to set off for N England. I shall be mortified at their leaving us, for I verily think that the Accession even of that Gentleman will not make up for the Absence of the other two. I am happy to find Cfongress] in perfect good humor and attentive to Business though so hard put to it in this place, as hardly to have a Room a piece in which to write a letter to a Friend. It brings to my Mind the Circumstances & Temper of the old Deputies who sat down under a Tree to eat their Bread and Cheese. This is the Kind of Men who are the Terror of Tyrants. I hope I shall shortly be able to write you something of Importance, from the Army at least. In the mean time Vale et me ama.
