May 25, 1778 745 Henry Laurens to Francis Johnston Sir, 25 May [1778] Your favor of the 12th Inst, reached me last Evening. This Morning I presented it to Congress & agreeable to your Recommendation the Reverend Doctor David Jones was appointed Chaplain to the Brigade under your Command, &: I beg leave to refer you to the inclosed Act of this date for that purpose. 1 Your refusal of the appointment to succeed Collo. Boudinot as Commissary of prisoners is Entered on the Journal of Congress, the duties of that Office must remain on that Gentleman a few days longer. 2 Accept my best wishes & beleive me to be with great Regard &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 'See JCC, 11:530. Col. Johnston’s letter of recommendation is in PCC, item 78, 13:75. ’See Laurens to Johnston, May 11, 1778. Henry Laurens to William Livingston Sir, 25th May [1778] Since my last of the 15th Inst. 1 by Sharp through the Camp at Val ley forge, I received your Excellency’s Report of proceedings respect ing Dep. Qur. Master Giffor[d] Dally &c which I had the honor of presenting to Congress. It was Committed & remains in the hands of the Committee—in the mean time it is my duty in obedience to the order of Congress to repeat their approbation. 2 Your Excellency’s application for Money to pay for purchase of Horses was on the 16th Inst, transferred to the Quarter Master Gen eral who was "ordered immediately to pay for such Horses & to settle the accounts with the persons employed to make the purchases agree able to the terms upon which your Excellency engaged’’—and I entertain hopes that business is completed. 3 Within, your Excellency will be pleased to receive an Act of Con gress of the 22d Inst, recommending to the Legislatures of the several States to disqualify all deserters & prisoners from the Enemy’s Army & Navy from acting as Militia Men or Substitutes during the present War, & for your Excellency’s information I add Copy of an Act of the 15th for establishing for a time limitted an half pay for Officers of the Army after the conclusion of the present War. I have the honor to be LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See Laurens to Benjamin Chew and John Penn, May 15, 1778, note 2. 2 On May 16 Congress read and referred to a special committee a May 9 letter
