752 May 26, 1778 1 Warrens’ May 7 letter to Gerry is in C. Harvey Gardiner, ed., A Study in Dissent. The Warren-Gerry Correspondence, 1776-1792 (Carbondale: Southern Illinois University Press, 1968), pp. 116-17. 2 See JCC, 11:529, 531. Henry Laurens to Richard Caswell Sir, 26th May 1778 Since my last of the 11th Inst, by Post I have had the honor of pre senting to Congress your Excellency’s several favors of 26th April, 2d & 6th Inst, which remain subjects for Consideration. 1 Capt. Blount is here & will probably be the bearer of the Resolutions of Congress respecting them. In the mean time this will serve to Cover an Act of the 22d Recom mending to the several States to exempt from Militia service &: to disqualify for acting as Substitutes all prisoners & Deserters from the British Army & Navy. Daily Accounts repeat the Enemy’s preparations for evacuating Philadelphia—there can be no doubt of the appearance but time will shew the reality. I have not had a Letter from General Washington later than the 18th, the General never trusts appearances. The Marquis delafayette lately detached upon a Command of observation with about 2200 Chosen Men & Officers, had nearly been surrounded by 7000 from the City, betrayed undoubtedly by a Tory or a Deserter. The Marquis displayed great Generalship in his retreat which he effected without Loss of Men, Cannon or baggage. Intelligence of his alarming situation reached the Camp at Valley forge, this was announced by the usual means of firing three Cannon. To the honour of Major General Baron Stiiben, the whole Army in fifteen minutes were under Arms, formed & ready to march but the Enemy who had reached one Bank of Schuylkill just as Marquis delafayette had gained the opposite—contented themselves with giv ing him a look, perhaps a smile, he returned immediately to Phila delphia. The Marquis continues abroad with his detachment of observation. I have the honor to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 On May 18 Congress read an April 26 letter from Governor Caswell to Laurens, announcing that the North Carolina Assembly had “acceded to the articles of Confederation, proposed to the United States by Congress.” See JCC, 11:506-7; and N.C. State Records, 13:102. Four days later Congress read a May 2 letter from Caswell, transmitting three acts passed by the assembly in response to various recommendations of Congress as well as an assembly resolve thanking Capt. Denis Nicolas Cottineau for the services he had performed for the state and forwarding
