754 May 26, 1778 it, the whole of which were Committed to the Treasury, from whence I am assured you will receive ample supplies of Money. 1 Within the present inclosure I transmit an Act of Congress of yesterday for paying to Brigadier General Glover such Amount as shall appear to be due for supplies by him to the Prisoners of the Convention of Saratoga. 2 And in a seperate Packet 50 Copies of the Act of 22d mentioned in mine of the 23d. Half these are printed in the German Tongue, Congress apprehend that from a proper dis persion among the foreign Troops good effects may be produced. I have the honor to be, With very great Regard & Respect, Sir, Your obedient & humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (MHi). ’General Heath’s May 4 letter and enclosures are not in PCC, but see ]CC, 11:530. 2 See JCC, 11:532. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen May 26th 1778 We now transmit you by the hands of Mr. Norton Brailsford an Express the sum of fifty thousand Dollars agreeably to the enclosed receipt which you will receive and appropriate to the use of the Navy in your Department, crediting this Committee for the same. 1 We hope this sum with the Monies which you will have received for the Warrants on the Loan Offices formerly transmitted will enable you to go on with vigor in your business, and it is our desire that your utmost endeavours be exerted to have all the Continental Vessels of war in your District speedily prepared for the sea & that you send them out to Cruize Against the enemy according to the plan pro posed in your Letter of the 9th of March last. We are Gentlemen, your hble servants. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 See Samuel Adams to James Warren, May 25, 1778, note 1. Josiah Bartlett to Meshech Weare Hond Sir York Town May the 27th 1778 I arrived here the 21st Inst, in the Morning. Mr. Wentworth & his waiter were Innoculated at Fish Kills the 13th, and rode with me to Reading about 46 miles from this place,
