May 27, 1778 755 where by the advice of Genl Gates, they tarried till they should get thro the disorder. Mr. Wentworth began to have the Symptoms about 20 miles before he arrived there. I have not heard from him since I left there the 19th. I think it my Duty to inform you that the President of Congress thinks himself neglected in not receiving answers to his letters. He Desired to know of me whether our Governor had Receivd any letter from him for Eight months past: that he had Reed no answer to any of his for that time; tho he had taken particular Care to Send Duplicates as often as he trusted them to the Common posts. I Endeavoured to Excuse the matter as well as I could, by telling him that some of his letters were little more than covers to acts & resolves of Congress which were supposed to Require no other answer than a Compliance with their Directions: that I Believed Some answers had been sent since that time, which by reason of the irregularity of the post were not come to hand. He said that Every letter that he wrote by order of Congress, deserved an Answer, at least so far as to let it be Known that it was received; that the way to know whither any letter miscarried, was to keep up a constant Correspondance and note the last letter sent; that it would be but a small matter on the Receipt of Every letter to inform of its being Receivd, if nothing more; and when any thing was done in consequence of any order of Congress to let it be known &c &c &C. 1 The Confederacy is not yet Ratified, North Carolina being un represented & two or three of the other States not having impowered their Delegates to Confirm it; It is the opinion here that it will be Universally agreed to. I have nothing new to inform you of, more than you will see in the Public papers. I am with the greatest Respect Sir, your most obedient, Humble Servant, Josiah Bartlett RC (MHi). 1 Bartlett’s criticism, which reinforced President Laurens’ April 20 request to Weare that he acknowledge official correspondence, struck a responsive chord. In his July 3, 1778, reply to Bartlett, which is in the Josiah Bartlett Papers (NhHi microfilm), Weare promised to correspond regularly with Laurens. Weare’s fre quent letters to President Laurens after July 4, 1778, are in PCC, item 64. Henry Laurens to Francis Hopkinson Dear Sir, 27 May [1778] The 21st Inst. I received your favor of the 18 th & two days ago the twelve hundred Dollars voted to yourself & Mr. Wharton which Sum I now forward by Count de Pulaski, which I believe to be a very
