May 27, 1778 757 Citizens are every day Stealing out of the City & deserters from the Enemy come into Camp in great Numbers. Appearances of an inten tion on the part of the Enemy to evacuate Philadelphia continue & indeed grow stronger, but We know General Washington never trusts appearances—his Army is in fine order & gaining strength every day. If Mr Hopkinson thinks the above, which is a collection of facts, will afford information & satisfaction to the good people in Maryland he is at liberty to give a Copy to the Printer, but not this writing nor the writer’s name. It may be stiled extract of a Letter from York 27 May—but no more. The Writer loves to please his friends & hates authorship. LB (ScHi). Enclosure: MS (PHi). 1 Francis Hopkinson and John Wharton were members of the Middle Depart ment Navy Board, which was originally situated in Philadelphia. In response to their April 29 memorial, which was read on May 1 and referred to the Marine Committee, Congress agreed on the 13th to pay each man $600 to defray the extra costs of transacting navy board business in Bordenton and Baltimore. See JCC, 10:412, 11:493; and PCC, item 41, 4:31-32. Hopkinson’s May 18 letter and en closure are not in PCC. “In addition to Samuel Adams and William Henry Drayton, Josiah Bartlett and Gouverneur Morris were also appointed to the Marine Committee this day. Adams replaced Francis Dana; Morris, Philip Livingston; and Drayton, Laurens himself. See JCC, 11:537. Henry Laurens to Samuel A. Otis Dear Sir, 27th May [1778] I took the liberty of troubling you on the 19th by Brown with many Letters to be sent forward to France; Necessity obliges me to be again troublesome on the same kind of business for my friends at Camp & elsewhere. In the present Packet will be four bulky Letters to Monsr. Gerard &ca, Duplicate 8c triplicate, 1 these to be dis patched by different conveyances but neither of them in the Vessel in which the Original shall have been sent—this went by Brown as abovementioned. To Mr. Math. Ridley 1 8c 2 2 —these to be sent by the first two good vessels 8c if they reach you in time, one of them to accompany our public dispatches. An half sheet within contains extracts from Letters which I received last Night from Camp 8c all the News I know of. I remain with great regard.
