May 27, 1778 759 extremely the public business. The latter is in every respect the re verse of Mr. Adams, and so you may form your judgment of the former. I have found ample cause to love and esteem Mr. Adams in our joint labors for the public good. My eyes are so extremely in jured by their constant application, that without the aid and support of Spectacles I fear I shall soon loose the use of them. I pray you then to procure me a pair of the best Temple Spectacles that can be had. In fitting these perhaps it may be proper to remember that my age is 46, that my eyes are light colored and have been quick & strong but now weakned by constant use—My head thin between the Temples. The British Army yet remains at Philadelphia and ours at Valley Forge about 18 miles from the City. The latter growing daily stronger in numbers & discipline; the former lessening in numbers by various casualties, but chiefly by desertion. We have the best authority for believing they are about embarking soon from Philadelphia, so that my next letter may be from that City. If the Spectacles are sent to my Son at Nantes he can contrive them to your ever affectionate brother and faithful friend, Richard Henry Lee RC (John F. Reed, King of Prussia, Pa., 1972). Thomas McKean to George Bryan Dear Sir, York-Town May 27th 1778 Your favor of the 21st came safe to hand, together with the ex tracts of Colo. Piper’s & Councillor Urie’s Letters. It may be well to make examples of some of the most wicked of the prisoners in Bedford as soon as practicable, but when I reflect on the Savages having scalped eleven women & children within five miles of the town of Bedford; that the people must be all in arms; that these criminals might escape for want of testimony or the Attor ney General’s presence, who cannot well bear the expence of so long a journey without some salary; that before a Precept could be sent to the Sheriff of that county, and the legal time for summoning Jurors &c being allowed, we should be in the beginning of harvest, with the court; and more especially that in great probability the Enemy may soon evacuate Philadelphia, which happening will re quire me immediately to resign my seat in Congress and to repair thither, as there will be an absolute necessity for a Judge on the Spot; I say, Sir, when I consider these things I am rather of opinion it would be adviseable to defer holding a court there yet. 1 As there will no doubt many more of these wretches be made prisoners, it
