760 May 27, 1778 would be as well in my judgment, to prevent the expence of two courts within perhaps two months, & try them all at once. If you think differently from me about holding the court in Bedford at this time, be so good to mention it to Mr. Atlee, who can write a Precept & sign it, and afterwards send it to me; he may fix any day for holding the court that he thinks proper, it will be agreeable to me. I condole with poor Mrs. Wharton on the death of the President. 2 There is nothing new here. Jo. Bone will be executed to day in pursuance of your Warrant. 3 Why did not the General Assembly choose a new President? I am, dear Sir, with great regard, Your most obedient servant, Thos M:Kean RC (NN). 1 For a second letter Pennsylvania Chief Justice McKean directed to Vice Presi dent Bryan this day on the subject of various legal questions that had recently been laid before him, see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:555. 2 For the funeral of Pennsylvania Council President Thomas Wharton, who died on May 23 after a brief illness, see Pa. Council Minutes, 11:498-500. 3 For the Pennsylvania Council’s warrant ordering the execution of Joseph Bone, who had been convicted of “Felony & Burglary,’’ see ibid., p. 490. Thomas McKean to Sarah McKean Dear Sally, York-Town. May 27th 1778 Your favor by Mr. Elder I received last night, and am sorry for your situation, but cannot procure a maid here, nor could I on the road, as I came down, hear of one. I think you should not have let that little hussey gone away without a month’s notice; however she was weak & lazy besides her being impudent. Miss Nelly Reed will, I hope, stay with you whilst we remain in Paxton, which in all proba bility will not be longer than the beginning of October, as there are strong circumstances to induce a belief, that the Enemy will shortly depart from this State. I shall expect Sam and the horses on Saturday week next, which will be the 6th day of June, and am satisfied the boys will be ready to go to school as soon as practicable. A Taylor must be got to mend their clothes, & they ought to have a pair of new shoes each. Until they are sent away, we shall not have it in our power to go to New castle county, tho’ we must contrive to do as well as possible in this matter when I return. It is so exceeding inconvenient for me to be here that I must resign my Seat in Congress; and yet if you had a good servant or two I should be content to stay a few months longer. Inclosed you have a printed paper, sent me by Mr. Hopkinson from Baltimore, which contains all I know of the damage done to
