May 27, 1778 761 Messieurs Borden and Kirkbride by the Enemy, a strange way of tempting the Americans to be reconciled to Great Britain, and con ciliating their affections. I have sent you the two last newspapers of Lancaster & York-Town by Mr. Elder, who will forward this. You have no doubt heard of the death of President Wharton on Saturday last. To day Joseph Bone, condemned at the court I held here in April for a Burglary, will be executed. I have nothing more to add, but that I am well, and beg you to kiss Sally for me, and to give my love to the other children. Adieu. Your most affectionate, Thos M:Kean RC (PHi). Gouverneur Morris to George Washington Dear General In Congress 27th May 1778. I have a Word to say to you upon the Subject of Promotion which we have just now finished or rather unfinished at least if that Matter was before in an unfinished Situation. That famous incomprehensible Baltimore Resolution (unluckily perhaps) introduced a very tedious Debate which terminated at Length by rejecting the whole of what the Committee reported with Relation to the Promoting of Officers. 1 You may be a little surprized when I tell you that upon the whole Matter I beleive this is best. But how? It is true I confess that much Ground of Heartburning is left under the Baltimore Resolution governing these Matters by the misterious Trinity of Seniority, Merit ir Quota. Let me however on the other Hand observe that to tie up the Hands of the Republic as to the Officers whom they are to appoint is utterly inconsistent with the republican Principles of Government which ought to prevail among us. No Danger it is true can arise at present but my Dear Sir we are laying Foundations and how Posterity in future Wars may build on the Foundations laid by Ancestors whom they will certainly reverence No Man can be hardy enough to assert. What then you will say is the Effect of the now Rule? In my poor Opinion it is no Rule. What then is the Use of the Resolution? Nothing more than an Apology for Officers whom it may be found necessary to supercede. Congress in Effect seem to have pledged themselves to their Constituents that they will pay a due Attention to the Quota of Troops furnished by the States respectively, to the Seniority of the Several Officers, and to that Degree of military Abilities which Nature or Industry may have conferred upon de serving Individuals. You ask me what is to be the Rule of Promotion below the Degree of a General Officer. I answer that Congress would not with Propriety make any Rule. They have given to the States the
