764 May 27, 1778 and Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, February 16-20, 1778. The “famous incomprehensible Baltimore Resolution” was the one passed on February 19, 1777, which provided that promotions of general officers were to be governed by “the line of succession, the merit of the persons proposed, and the quota of troops raised, and to be raised, by each State.” JCC, 7:133. For a discussion of problems of promotion and rank in the Continental Army, see Louis C. Hatch, The Administration of the American Revolutionary Army (New York: Longmans, Green and Co., 1904), pp. 35-46. “See Congress’ September 16, 1776, resolution on this issue in JCC, 5:763. ’The letter to Clinton in question, dated May 28, 1778, is printed below. See also Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:496. ‘See also Henry Laurens to Lafayette, May 17, 1778, note 2. ' In his May 29 response to this letter, Washington criticized Morris’ proposed treatment of the citizens of Philadelphia as “inconsistent with sound policy” and “an arbitrary stretch of military power.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:482-86. Committee of Commerce to the Commissioners at Paris Committee of Commerce, Gentn. York in Pennsylvania May 28th 1778. You will receive this by Thomas Read Esqr who was Captain of the Frigate Washington but is now Commander of the Armed Brigantine Baltimore. This Brigantine was intended for A dispatch Vessel, but now hath A Cargo on board of Forty nine hogsheads of Tobacco which was all she coud take in and accomodate her men. We have addressed her to John Dani. Schweighauser Mercht in Nantes, and have directed him to dispose of the net proceeds of her Cargo, and also a balance which he hath in his hands belonging to these States according to your order. We have order’d Captain Read to wait for and pursue your directions, and have desired Mr. Schweig hauser to Ship such Goods on board the Baltimore, belonging to these States, as Captain Read can receive consistantly with your directions. We have the pleasure to inform you that the Frigate Dean, Captain Nicholson, the Queen of France, Captain Green, and the Henrietta, Captain Brown, are safely arrived at Boston and our Agent there in A Letter of the 13th May advises us that “they had another valuable arrival from France yesterday’’ which we hope is the Duke de Choiseuil. We are with the greatest Respect, Your most Obed humble servants, William Ellery Richd. Hutson Thos. Adams
