May 28, 1778 765 RC (PPAmP). In the hand of John Brown and signed by Adams, Ellery, and Hutson. Addressed: “The Honorable The Ambassadors of the United States of America, at Paris.” Endorsed by John Adams: “Comtee. of Commerce, May 28. 1778. Ansd. July 29. Came by the Saratoga, Capt. Read.” Henry Laurens to Philip Schuyler Sir, 28th May [1778] The day before yesterday I had the honor of receiving & presenting to Congress your favors of the 9th & 11th Inst, together with Copy of the Message from the Oneida, which were immediately committed to the Board of War. 1 A Report from thence has not yet come up & I remain without commands from the House. You will therefore Sir do me the honor to receive this as private, which I dispatch partly to gratify your Messenger who discovers much anxiety to return, but principally from a feeling of my own, a repugnance to delay, holding coadjutors, in the Service of my Country, in suspense when ’tis in my power by any decent means to releive them. The Acts of Congress of the 22d April & lately an Address to the people of the 9 th May 2 were directed as from my self for your in formation of these important articles in our public proceedings. In the same manner I communicated those papers to other Gentlemen in your Quarter. Indeed I had entertained an assurance that you Sir, in particular ever active in promoting the public Interest would have made the Canadians as well as the Indians fully acquainted with their contents, but having received no direction from Congress, I could not from any consideration think myself entitled to request or even to hint. 3 I now take the liberty of inclosing an hand Bill & News paper containing other intelligence of the proceedings of Congress, possibly if the knowledge of the former were transfused throughout Canada good effects might be produced. The public Letter which I had the honor of writing the 8th Inst, by Dodd will have informed you of the Resolves of Congress respect ing supplies to the Indians. Colo. Morgan is at present with his family at or near Lancaster. I expect his return to Morrow, Congress will then learn all that he knows relative to Atskeray 4 —solid peace with our Neighboring In dians is so desirable & so very Interesting, I am persuaded no time will be unnecesarily delayed nor any proper means left untried for obtaining it. Permit me Sir, to congratulate with you on your Reelection to Congress. Self Interest as well as love of Country prompt my wishes for your appearance. 5 Every day repeats accounts of the Enemy’s preparations for evacuat-
