May 28, 1778 767 some mode Should, by the State, be adopted to keep the Regiments full as to Officers, and some Line of Promotion chalked out for their Satisfaction. What I have to propose is, that the General, or the General who may command in a seperate Department, be invested with the Power of filling up vacancies in the following manner, to wit: that from an Ensign to a Major exclusively the Promotions shall be in the Regimental Line and from a Captain upwards in the Line of the State. 1 That generally Seniority shall be regarded but that a Power be given in extraordinary Cases of merit or Demerit to vary from that Principle. These things, Sir, I take it are within the Province of the Council of Appointment, and they will doubtless see the Propriety of giving to the General under whose Eye our troops may be placed the Power of rewarding their Bravery and Conduct or of punishing by neglect the want of these necessary Qualifications. This will give Zeal and Energy to the Service but I will not dilate upon a Proposition of which you will at the first Glance discern the Propriety. I am with great Respect Your Excel lency’s most obed’t & humble Servant, Gouv’r Morris. MS not found; reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 3:371-72. x Cf. Morris to Washington, May 27, 1778, note 1. No response from Clinton to Morris’ proposal has been found. Henry Laurens to William Atlee Sir, 29 May [1778] I received by the hand of Count de Montfort 1 your favor of the 26th. After some conversation with that Gentleman he took leave fully convinced that his attempts to enlist prisoners of War had been contrary to the Resolution of Congress under which he was author ized to Act, your opposition was consequently well founded & your conduct commendable. 2 I am with great Respect LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: "William Atlee Esquire, D. Comissary of Prisoners, Lancaster.” 1 Count Julius de Montfort was a major in Casimir Pulaski’s independent corps, JCC, 10:364. “This incident underscores the way in which Congress and the new Board of War made up of nondelegates sometimes worked at cross purposes. On March 28 Congress authorized Casimir Pulaski to raise an independent corps of cavalry and infantry and empowered him to ignore a recent congressional ban on the enlist ment of prisoners of war. Two days later, however, Congress, for reasons explained elsewhere, reconsidered the matter and decided not to allow the use of prisoners of war in Pulaski’s independent corps. See Laurens to Washington, March 30, 1778, note 1. Nevertheless, the Board of War, which had advised allowing Pulaski to recruit prisoners, subsequently issued instructions authorizing him to enlist them
