May 29, 1778 769 founded in his opinion we are soon to meet in Philadelphia. I do not flatter my Self on appearances so warmly as I perceive some of my friends do. I have just received a Packet of French News Papers & without opening any the whole shall accompany this. I shall be happy to know these prove acceptable. I have the honor to be with the most respectful attachment & the highest Esteem &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 See Lafayette’s somewhat awkwardly written private letter to Laurens of May 25 in Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 2:58-59. “See Laurens to Francis Hopkinson, May 27, 1778. • Lafayette’s “other letter’’ was his official letter to Laurens of May 25. Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 2:55-57. In it the marquis asked Congress to support his plan for a Franco-American “expedition against the english West Indias islands under con tinental colours,” to be commanded by himself and with each nation sharing equally in the conquered territory. He also revealed that he had communicated this plan to his cousin the marquis de Bouilffi, the governor of Martinique, and enclosed an extract from a March 8 letter from Bouille in which the governor revealed that he approved the scheme and had urged the French government to support it but advised Lafayette to delay the attack until war broke out between France and Great Britain. Ibid., pp. 57-58. Laurens conferred on this matter with Richard Henry Lee, a member of the Committee for Foreign Affairs, who initially advised him not to bring it to Congress’ attention, but Laurens soon disregarded this advice and on June 9 submitted Lafayette’s and Bouilffi’s letters to Congress, which read and referred them to a committee consisting of Thomas McKean, Roger Sherman, and John Witherspoon. Since France had expressly renounced any claim to the British West Indies in her recent treaty of alliance with the United States, however. Congress took no further action on Lafayette’s proposal, contenting itself instead with commending Lafayette through Laurens for his “Zeal and good will for our Cause.” See JCC, 11:580; Laurens to Lafayette, May 31 and June 19, 1778; and Louis Gottschalk, Lafayette Joins the American Army (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1937), pp. 194-95. Congress was doubtless also deterred by the size of the contribution to the expedition Lafayette expected from it—3,000 men plus shipping and supplies—and by the fact that there was no guarantee the French government would support the venture. Henry Laurens to John Laurens York Town 29th May 1778 I congratulate with you My Dear Son on your safe return to Camp 8c particularly on the honor which is due to Marquis delafayette for his excellent Generalship in the late Retreat, of which you 8c every Gentleman under that brave Noble Man’s Command participate. I regret much the want of a perfect account of that affair, & expect your next will supply the deficiency of the last, occasioned you say by necessity. If you study my inclination which I beleive coincides with your
