780 May 30, 1778 that our Treasury was exhausted, therefore the Requisition was made to Congress, without Mr. Craig’s having it in his power to produce an Inventory or inform where the Goods were deposited, but in general that they were in the hands of a number of reputable people in the County of Lancaster, from these Considerations and plainly seeing that Congress would not comply with any such request, but through the State immediately or the Delligates thereof, I withdrew the appli cation to have an opportunity to inform you, as also that I have not the least doubt but Congress would most readily advance the State for the Clothiers Department on a proper application as above. I am, Sir, Yr. most ob. huml ser, Dani. Roberdeau RC (PHi). 1 Roberdeau had just resumed his seat in Congress on May 26 after an extended leave of absence granted on April 11 to supervise the construction of facilities at a western Pennsylvania lead mine being developed, on property he had recently purchased, to relieve the state’s ammunition shortage. See JCC, 10:337, 11:534. His activities while on leave can be partially reconstructed from the three letters he wrote on April 17, 23, and 27 from Carlisle, Standing Stone, and Sinking Spring Valley respectively, which are in Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:422-24, 436-37, 446-47. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dr. Papa, 31 May 1778 Mr. Henry’s departure affords me an opportunity of sending you the Lan. & York newspapers. The letter in the former Signed Humph rey Thompson is a genuine letter, and is I think a most original piece in its way. 1 I think you should preserve it as a curiosity. From con current accounts strengthened by circumstances there remains little doubt of the enemy’s intended departure from Pha. When they will leave that city is uncertain, but if we may judge from appearances, their stay in it will not exceed a week or ten days from this time. Perhaps they have already left it, or may leave it sooner. There was a report a day or two ago that Spain had acknowleged our Independance and acceded to the treaty of Alliance, and of Amity & Commerce; how ever we have no confirmation of that report. It was also reported that war was not declared between France & England the 7th of April. A ship is said to be arrived at the Eastward which left Nantes on that day, and brings advice that war was then declared at least by France. We have no intelligence of the sailing of the British Commissioners. I hope to hear from you by Mondays post that you are all well and that Molly continues to grow better. My love to her, the little ones, & Mrs. Darnall. I hope the fruit has not suffered by the late, or indeed
