May 31, 1778 781 present cold weather; if this rainy weather should terminate in a northwester, I fear we shall lose it all. I shall write to you again by Tuesday’s post, and I flatter myself I may then be able to give you a certain account of the Enemy’s having left Pha. Such an event would effectually stop the Spirit of Toryism and discredit the reputation of their arms with the European Nations. By the latest advices from Europe a war in Germany seems very probable between the house of Austria & Brandenburgh. Wishing you health I remain, yr. affectionate Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton RC (MdHi). 1 The May 27 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet or the General Advertiser printed a letter written by Sgt. Humphrey Thomson “From my sequestered Museum, near the Lancaster Road, April 23, 1778,” in which Thomson offered an absurdly florid apologia for deserting his unit and running off with “one of the daughters of Venus.” William Ellery to William Whipple My Dear Sir, York Town May 31st 1778 I rec’d your’s of the 10th of May a few days ago and wish I could give you any thing new and entertaining. The most interesting intel ligence soon grows old, and we are constantly looking out for some thing new. I don’t wonder that Solomon said all was vanity so soon as he had discovered that there was nothing new under the sun, for if it were not for the expectation of something new life would be but a dull scene, like an old reiterated tale. There would be an end to curiosity which stimulates to the acquisition of knowledge; and the world would be involved in one long night of ignorance and dark ness. The most important intelligence that we could expect was, that Providence had disposed some European Power to stand forth in support of injured innocence and the violated rights of mankind. France hath been disposed to enter into an alliance with us and upon terms of equality and reciprocity, herein discovering a magnanimity worthy of the most Christian King. We have illuminations and fired our feu-de-jois on this occasion, and it is already become an old story. We are now looking out for further alliances and commissioners from Britain to treat with us. We have not as yet heard that war was declared between France and Britain. It will be inevitable unless Britain can bring down her proud stomach to relish sound policy, to acknowledge our Independency and make peace with us. Whether the haughty insolent Thane can stoop to this or not you are a good judge. I should with you, perhaps, have been willing that France should have continued in her usual way to have supported us, had not I in
