782 May 31, 1778 contemplation the divesting of Britain of every foot of land upon this Continent. I think it absolutely necessary to a future, lasting peace that we should be possessed of Canada, Nova Scotia and the Floridas, which we cannot so well effect without the open assistance of France. We have gained great reputation by our arms and human ity throughout Europe, and I believe even Britain herself begins to think us invincible. It is most certain that if she had not been secretly and openly aided by our own countrymen, she must have long since been compelled to give over her vain attempts. Hereafter when peace and independency shall be established, temptations to disaffection, the preservation of property and office, or the expectation of them will cease, and united truly like a band of brothers, we may bid defi ance to the world. Commerce and Agriculture must be our great objects, the latter as the basis of the former and the former must be supported by a proper Marine. I wish we had a respectable Navy, but as matters are circumstanced we must go through the war with a small one. Your plan for a Navy is approved excepting that part of it which proposes the turning of the 74 gun ships into frigates which Mr. Landais, whom the Committee imagine is a very good judge thinks would not do. He hath proposed that they should be constructed to carry only two batteries; the lower battery to consist of twenty eight 24 pounders and the upper one of as many 18 pounders. In this way he says that the 56 gun ship will make as good a battle as a 74, be stronger, sail faster, take less men, be built quicker and be much cheaper. The Committee have laid his scheme before Congress, it was approved and I suppose the Committee will direct Mr Langdon to pursue the building of the intended 74 on Landais plan. 1 Our future frigates will be such as you describe; with two 56 gun ships and half a dozen such frigates under good Commanders, we should oblige our Enemy’s ships to go in squadrons, or capture them wherever we saw them. But without brave skilful Captains it is in vain to equip fleets. I don’t know which is the most criminal not to assist a ship overpowered by numbers, or to deliver up a ship without firing a gun. If the Devil were a coward I should think that he pos sessed some of our sea captains; but the Devil it seems, according to Milton, fought boldly against Michael and he is able and valiant enough, we are told, to maintain a dominion in our world even against the Messiah himself; from whence I infer the Devil wants neither courage nor stratagem. But to be serious, it is indeed melan choly to contemplate our little fleet; two frigates burnt in the North River, two burnt and one taken in the Delaware, one taken without firing a gun, and one lost for want of a pilot, I mean the Virginia. The story is briefly this. After being cooped up in the Chesapeake for more than a twelve month, she made several essays to get out, but to no purpose. Once she had almost reached the Capes, but the Lieuten-
