786 May 31, 1778 rid of many hundreds perhaps thousands of Mouths which were destroying his provisions become very scarce within his confines—& of a set of people whom he could not govern altogether by the Articles of War & his general Orders—of some who were daily spies upon his movements & critics upon his conduct, he may have in veiw to obtain elbow Room for his Garrison & he may in a very short space of time complete a debarkation of Horses, Cannon, baggage &c. He may entertain hopes also, to relax our proceedings for filling up this Army. I will not trust him, I will not (although I beleive it) act as if I beleived he was going, until he shall be fairly gone. I would excite in Camp & guards double vigilance Night & day while he remained on this side or within the Banks of Delaware. Whatever may be his designs, go or stay, he will if we are watchful give us Credit, at least, for good Generalship. He knows every step we take. I rejoice at the measures which you say are adopted for quieting the minds of those who are now under convictions of their errors & Crimes. Good Citizens may be made of many of them 8c I don’t care how full of useful articles they leave for Sale in the City, there are some which I want 8c may lawfully purchase. Let me hear all that occurs 8c as minutely as your time will permit. I pray God protect you. Henry Laurens, President of Congress [P.S.] In one of the Papers inclosed you will see an account which I wrote 8c caused to be Inserted of a Capture made at Frederica. 2 Those Vessels were certainly going to disburthen poor Breton Island of all my Rice in Barns 8cc, 8c the soil of all the buildings. As General McIntosh says he had not heard of the circumstance in Camp I pre sume you had not. Tell me how you have disposed of the little Pivot or how he disposes of himself, I have learned that he is now much disposed to adulate where he had betrayed 8c affected to dispise. 3 I cannot love or flatter that Man. For once I have got hold of a string of English News Papers for the Month of February. Will these be acceptable to the General or to yourself, I will send them if you desire it. RC (MHi: William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, 1973). 1 John Laurens’ May 27 letter to his father is in Simms, Laurens Army Corre spondence, pp. 174-78. a This is evidently a reference to a compendium of recent news from South Caro lina that was printed in the May 23 issue of the Pennsylvania Gazette under the heading “Intelligence just received from Charlestown, South-Carolina, April 21, 1778,” and reads as follows: “An express arrived this morning from Georgia, with advice, that Col. Elbert, and Col. White, in the Washington and Lee Gallies of that State, joined by the Bullock Galley, had taken, at the island of Frederica, the following vessels, belong ing to the King of England, viz. the Hinchenbrook brigantine, commanded by Captain Ellis; a sloop, commanded by the famous Captain Moubray, and an armed schooner; the British crews belonging to these vessels fled as soon as they were
