788 May 31, 1778 Henry Laurens to John Wells Dear Sir, 31 May 1778 I did myself the honor to write to you the 19th Inst, by Messenger Sharp. The News papers & Manuscripts which you will find within the present Inclosure will give you much Intelligence. I must not say this is all the time & place affords, but if you knew how closely my own time is applied to discharging the necessary duties of my present Station, you would rather wonder, at my finding time for collecting any news, than blame me for omitting minutia. From the Copies of Letters from my son, you may if you please manufacture an Account for public veiw of the Marquis’s late honor able Retreat, adding that this brave young Nobleman equally wise & discreet, has gained more glory by this late act than could have been derived from a drawn battle or a slight Victory; he must have been well supported by his officers who all participate of the honor. We are assured Majr. General Grant who had the Command of the 4000 that Marched out of the City near Midnight 8c who by a circuitous hard March of 35 Miles had compassed the Rear of the Marquis, is put under arrest for neglect of duty or breach of orders; had he trod the Ground assigned to him, he would have occupied Matson’s ford, where the Marquis successfully passed 8c must have embarrassed our brave young Hero, who in that case would have been driven to a necessity of plunging into the River without time for ascertaining depth, must have lost his Cannon, Baggage 8c many lives. A Gentle man who was with the Marquis 8c who conducted the Retreat as Inspector, has just now sketched out the Marches of both, or rather of the various parties. General Grant instead of crossing directly to Matsons ford turned down a Road at some distance from the River. The Marquis Marched in view at some 300 1 Toises distance between him 8c the River, gained 8c passed the Ford without loss or annoyance. This Gentleman, Monsr. Ternon has likewise given me the following account of the loss on each side which he says may be depended on. British 3 Dragoons killed 3 Wounded 8c carried in a Cart to the City 1 Grenadier ) „ . > Prisoners 2 Privates ) 16 Deserters Union, 3 French Jagers of the Indian Corp killed 2 Missing. 8c possitively no more. He confirms the account in very lively description of the flight of the British Dragoons upon hearing the Indian War Whoop, 8c adds that one of the French Jagers among the Killed had been most cruelly
