May 31, 1778 789 butchered by the British. They had put him under ground but our people hearing of the circumstance took out the Body & exposed it to the view of the Soldiery. After the Marquis had crossed the River, Mr. Jno. Laurens, Mr. Ternon & a small party were ordered to return & reconnoitre. They followed the enemy & overtook them marching by a hasty step into the City. The Marquis had given early intelli gence of his unpleasant situation, the alarm was fired in Camp & in fifteen minutes, to the honor of Baron Stiiben be it said, the whole Camp was under Arm formed & ready to March. This alarm which the Enemy caught by sound, penetrated a little deeper & their precipi tate retreat marks an indisposition to a general engagement. I have this Instant (now candle light) a Letter from General Wash ington. 2 “The Enemy are still (28th) in Philadelphia but the intelligence from thence is so clear & so strong, it is as certain as any event can be that is contingent, that they mean to abandon it. Against the various measures they are pursuing which point to an evacuation, I can learn but of a single circumstance approved. They are working at their Redoubts with great industry, but this last, tho’ certainly true cannot be of sufficient weight to raise a doubt upon the subject & must be considered as merely calculated to deceive us & mask their design. We cannot by the most diligent searches discover whether their movement will be by Land or Sea.” The General has detached General Maxwell with a party to join General Dickinson in New Jersey & to annoy them if they go that way. General Smallwood is called in from Wilmington, no surprize is to be feared in that quarter, our Camp is strong 8c tis said im pregnable. My own is at War with all opinions, except General Wash ington’s, and a very few others. I am not inclined to beleive General Clinton is going, until he is fairly gone. When he has got rid of incumbrances 8c shall have received reinforcement what is to hinder him from Marching up the York Road 8c compelling our Army to take the Field. Observe I do not disbeleive, but knowing Mr. Clinton to be a Man of enterprize 8c deep stratagem, I dread the effects of security on our part or as I should say imaginary security. A Gentleman just now called on me to read a Letter from New Jersey. “The Enemy are shewing preparations for embarkation in New York. ’Tis conjectured a strong Garrison is to be left there 8c all the rest to go to the West Indies.” All conjecture. Congress have ordered an intended 74 Gun ship building at Ports mouth New Hamshire to be constructed upon a plan given by Capt Landais a skilful French Sea Officer—to be of two decks only—on the tower to carry 28 24—8c on the upper 28 18-pounder. She will cost less money, sail faster, be of equal force 8c require fewer Men by 150. General McIntosh is here on his Journey to Fort Pitt where he is to
