790 May 31, 1778 Command. This Gentleman has brought from Valley forge an high Character penned by the Commander in Chief 3 Sc an Address from the Officers of the Brigade which he commanded containing the strongest marks of respect, affection & applause. The tryal of General St. Clair will soon come on, this is a subject too delicate to be treated with brevity, & on which candor forbids wanton prediction. Be the event what it may my original sentiment is confirmed. The prospect of peace with the Six Nations which will be exhibited in one of the inclosed Manuscript affords me much Satisfaction. The diligent Cheif Justice who has ten times more time for writing News than I have, will transmit to our Town ten times more than I am able to do. You will catch it all by some means or other. I say you may manufacture from the materials which I furnish you with, being all to the best of my knowledge perfectly true, but I pro hibit the disclosure of authorities. None of us are anxious to appear in print, 8c I am persuaded you will not willingly make an ill requital to your friends. fl am Seriously projecting an Enterprize beyond Altamaha; General McIntosh to whom I disclosed my sentiments this afternoon is strongly united in them, but I enjoin you to keep this intimation to your self.}* I rejoice in your good fortune, I know you are sober 8c vigilant, be steady 8c beleive me to be with great Regard 8cca. P.S. I have heard that Mr. R.H. Powell went some time ago to St Augustine. Pray tell me the rise, progress 8c event of that extraordi nary circumstance. I have been told the people about Red Stone have prohibited Tacitus Gaillard’s proceeding down the Missisipy. 5 LB (ScHi). 1 Laurens inserted an asterisk at this point to key a marginal note explaining the French term “Toise”—a “fathom of 61/ feet.” ’See Washington’s May 28 letter to Laurens in Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 11:471-72. 3 See Washington’s May 21 letter to Laurens, ibid., pp. 429-30. With this letter Washington enclosed an account of McIntosh’s traveling expenses from Georgia to Pennsylvania, which Congress paid on June 2. JCC, 11:561-62. 1 Laurens wrote in the margin next to this paragraph: “Omitted in my Letter.” •See Laurens to Benjamin Farrar, March 7, note, and June 12, 1778. Richard Henry Lee to John Page Dear Sir, York May 31st 1778 Your favor of the 19th has just come to hand and I thank you for it. In proportion to my ardent zeal for the prosperity and security of
