Illustrations xxix to a duel, and won a damage award from the Philadelphia printer John Dunlap over charges related to Thompson’s case. His congres sional service was frequently interrupted by his duties as Pennsylva nia chief justice, and when elected president of Congress in July 1781 he accepted the post with the understanding he would serve only until the fall term of the court when he would be obliged to return to the bench. Engraving by Thomas B. Welch from a painting by Gilbert Stuart. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress (LC-USZ62- 8051). Robert R. Livingston, Jr. 491 Livingston, of “Clermont,” graduated from King’s College in 1765, studied law with William Livingston and with William Smith, and was admitted to the bar in 1770. Although best known as Chancellor of New York, 1777-1801, and for his negotiations with France for the purchase of Louisiana in 1803, Livingston also had a distinguished career as a New York delegate to Congress, 1775-76, 1779-80, 1784, and as Secretary for Foreign Affairs, 1781-83. In Congress he was a member of the committee appointed to draft the Declaration of Independence, but left Philadelphia before the document was signed and therefore is not known to history as a “Signer.” He was particularly active on committees assigned respon sibilities for fiscal, foreign, and military affairs, and was early identified as a supporter of the French alliance and a confidant of the French Minister in Philadelphia. This identification undoubt edly contributed ultimately to his selection as Secretary for Foreign Affairs, but also underlay some of the opposition to his selection, which resulted in a delay filling the newly created post from January 10 until August 10, 1781. Painting by Charles Willson Peale. Independence National His torical Park. Daniel Carroll 546 Carroll, older brother of bishop John Carroll, was educated like his brother and his cousin Charles Carroll of Carrollton at the Jesuit school at St. Omer’s in French Flanders, but little is known of his early life. He acquired extensive properties in Maryland and located on Rock Creek a few miles north of its junction with the Potomac. He was elected to Congress in 1781, carrying news of Maryland’s decision to ratify the Articles of Confederation when he arrived in Congress, and was reelected in 1782 and 1783, during which time he often revealed particular knowledge of and interest in European affairs. Carroll was also appointed a delegate to the Constitutional Convention in 1787, thereby becoming a signer of both the Articles
