March 2, 1781 5 RC (NHpR: Naval History). Addressed: “Mrs. Elizabeth Rodney, Wilmington." 1 Although Rodney wrote “Sir,” the letter is addressed to his wife, Elizabeth Fisher Rodney, to whom he also had written the “few Lines this morning" printed below. 2 The following “few Lines” to Elizabeth are in the Rodney Papers, DeHi. “I have but a minute to write, have not had time to do Your business yet, Mrs. Vining says good black Satin is 40/ hard and unless I can buy lower Shall think it best for you to get it in Wilmington & send it up to be Made. Our Confederation will be completed to day after which Shall have more time to git private business done. My love to the Children &c.” 3 Accounts of the celebration similar to the description recorded in Rodney’s diary this day appeared in the Pennsylvania Packet, March 3, and the Pennsylvania Gazette, March 7, 1781. Samuel Huntington to Alexander McDougall Sir, Philada March 2. 1781 I have the Pleasure to inform you that Congress have been pleased to elect you to the important Office of Secretary of Marine for the United States. 1 A Copy of your Appointment is herewith enclosed. I have the Honor to be, with very great respect, Sir, your most obedient Servant, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 JCC, 19:203. For McDougall’s reluctance to accept this appointment unless permitted to retain his rank and pay as a Continental major general, a condition Congress ultimately refused to accede to, see McDougall to Huntington, March 9, 1781, note 2. Samuel Huntington to the States Sir, Circular. Philada March 2. 1781 By the Act of Congress herewith enclosed your Excellency will be informed that the Articles of Confederation & perpetual Union between the thirteen United States are formally & finally ratified by all the States. 1 We are happy to congratulate our Constituents on this important Event, desired by our Friends but dreaded by our Enemies. I have the Honor to be &c, &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 For the completion of ratification, which was finally accomplished when Daniel Carroll and John Hanson signed the Articles of Confederation on behalf of Maryland on March 1, see JCC, 19:213-14; and Thomas Rodney’s Diary, March 1, 1781. See also Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee, February 20 and 24, 1781.
