8 March 2, 1781 & 800 Riflemen—So that great things probably may be Accom plished there in a few days. I have Given My attendance all this week in Congress and have had an Opertunity of Seeing how essential it is for every State to keep up their representation There. Our State will find it Much More to their Interests To give Such a reasonable allowance as will enable their Delligates to Stay here, than to be unrepresented. Upon the Confederation being Confirmed New Hamshire & Rhode Island having each but one Member & therefore became unrepresented, they thought it so essential that they Moved Congress to adjourn appointing a Committee of the States to Sit Till they Could be represented. 2 I do not Mention this because I wish them to enable me to Stay, but because I think they ought to Make it an essential point to be represented and that they May enable others To attend that I May attend My own interests at home for nothing that I would wish them to give would Compensate for My Staying. Yet I think it so necessary for the Interests of the State that I intend to give all the attendance in my power Till they git better Supplied. Yesterday the Confederation was finally rattified and Confirmed. At Two OClock we had a Colation at the President of Congress’s. At five I dined at Mr. McKeans with the President & Vice President and Sundry members of assembly of this State and Sundry Members of Congress & others. Thus you hear this Situation is not without the flattering inducements of Good Company & Good Living. But as have not yet had it in my power to git lodgings to My Mind, have not yet been waited on by the Minister of France Whose Custom it is to wait on every member of Congress as soon as he Takes lodgings. As I may often Communicate to you many things which ought not to be publick I shall only request that you will always attend to such things as your own Judgment points out to be of that nature which may save me the Trouble of particularising them. I am Vizt. Thomas Rodney N.B. I am much pleased to find that all your old acquaintances in Congress still profess the warmest Esteem for you. My love to Sally and all friends below. RC (DeHi: Rodney Papers). 1 Congress received this information in the chevalier de La Luzerne’s March 2 letter to Congress, in which he also requested the appointment of a committee to communicate additional information “relative to these operations.” See JCC, 19:224- 25; PCC, item 95, 1:184-85; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:271. This intelligence was also communicated this day in an intercepted letter from an unidentified delegate to William Carmichael, a fragment of which survives in the form of a poorly rendered French translation sent to Paris from the French ambassador in Spain. Archives du Ministere des affaires etrangeres: Correspondance politique, Espagne, 602:267. 2 See the preceding entry.
