March 5, 1781 13 25th of September & 4th of December last relative to the Inspectors Department, which, if you have not already received, should be transmitted for your Information. 1 I have the Pleasure to inform you that Captain Tilly after he left the Bay on his return to Newport captured the Romulus, mounting 44 Guns & pierced for 50 and carried her into Newport. I have the Honor to be, with very great respect, Sir, your most obedient Servant, Sam Huntington President 2 RC (NHi: Steuben Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See JCC, 18:854-61, 1118. Steuben had written to Secretary Charles Thomson on February 2 explaining that he had belatedly learned from General Washington that Congress had finally adopted a new “Plan for the Department of the Inspection,” and requested a copy of Congress’ resolutions on the subject. PCC, item 164, fol. 214. 2 This day Huntington also wrote the following brief letter to the marquis de Lafayette, who had just passed through Philadelphia enroute to Virginia on March 2. “While your Station shall continue between this & General Greene’s Head Quarters, you will take the Liberty to open any public Despatches from him addressed to the President of Congress, in Order that you may obtain the earliest Intelligence from him, which may be of Importance.” PCC, item 15, fol. 247. Theodorick Bland to Richard Henry Lee Dr. Sr. Philadelphia March 5th 1781 We have been for some days past in the most impatient expecta tion of hearing that the Virtue and ardor of our Countrymen had put a stop to the Progress of Cornwallis, and a period to his handfull of men with which that adventurous Knight Errand had dared to traverse the Southern States, and (as if bidding defiance to our Patriotism and Courage) has with three thousand troops thrown down the Gauntlet to forty thousand at least, who are nearer to him than he is to any support. Good God! Shall it be said that this man has dared to Venture near three Hundred miles from the Sea Coast and above two Hundred from any of his Posts and shall be permitted again to return! I cannot believe it. It is said we want Arms—Has not every Peasant in Virginia & North Carolina a Gun? with what weapons were the Battles of Bunkers Hill, Bennington and Kings mountain fought. But I will not dwell on a Subject which affords so much Chagrin. I will suppose that the Spirit of America has again roused and that Saratoga is revived at the Saura Town. 1 I have been unwearied in my applications for a Maritime force from Rhode Island and should in my last have informed you that I had at last obtained it through the French Ministery—but was afraid to trust it to paper as it was so profound a secret that no one in Philadelphia except him & myself knew it was saild untill we had reason to expect it had arrived. Altho it had not all the desired effect
