March 5, 1781 15 RC (ViU: Lee Family Papers). 1 Sauratown, Upper Sauratown, and Lower Sauratown were Indian trading posts on the Dan River in North Carolina north of Guilford Courthouse. 2 See Virginia Delegates to Samuel Nightingale, Jr., December 30, 1780. 3 “Col. Masons Sentiments” have not been identified. Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia March 5. 1781 I do myself the Honor herewith to enclose for your Excellency’s Amusement, a Plan proposed by an ingenious Gentleman to be adopted for sinking the Continental Bills of the old Emissions. 1 If the Inhabitants of any State are disposed to bring in & exchange their Quota of those Emissions at the rate of seventy five for one, the Plan appears plausible & ingenious at least in Theory. I have also enclosed the Copy of a Letter just come to hand from the Governor of Virginia, 2 which contains Intelligence more favor able from the Southward than we had of late received. Indeed the Situation of Affairs in that Quarter have been for some Time & yet are critical. Very important Events must soon take Place. I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, Sir, your most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Not identified. 2 Undoubtedly Thomas Jefferson’s February 26 letter to Huntington, for which see the following entry, note 1. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia March 5. 1781 I do myself the Honor to forward the enclosed Despatches from General Greene, also the enclosed Copy of a Letter from Governor Jefferson which contains the latest Intelligence received from the Southward. 1 Perhaps the enclosed Letter addressed to your Excellency, (sup posed to be) from Governor Jefferson, may contain similar Intelli gence. 2 By the enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress of the first Instant your Excellency will be informed that the Confederation is finally ratified by all the States. I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington
