16 March 5, 1781 P.S. Your Excellency’s Favour of the 27th Ulto was this Day received. 3 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 The enclosed letters from Nathanael Greene consisted of two of the same date (February 15) to Huntington and to Washington. See PCC, item 155, 1:577, item 172, 1:55-58. For the enclosed February 26 letter from Thomas Jefferson, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 5:12. 2 This February 26 letter from Jefferson to Washington is identical to. the letter of the same date from Jefferson to Huntington identified in note 1. ’This letter, which was referred to the Board of War this day, is in PCC, item 147, 6:255-58. See JCC, 19:230. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry Dr. sr. March 5. 1781. Doctor Winship went for Boston this morning in a Carriage and was so kind as to take two small Packages which I made up of Articles for Mrs. Adams, Mr. Wibert, Col. Peabody, Yourself and my Daughter. 1 In a Letter-Form he has yr. Loan Office Certificate with the Interest in Bills of Exchange, yr. Ruffles and the Edging, which he is to deliver into yr. Hands or to Mrs. S A Otis. Mrs. Lovell, in opening a small Bag will find a Bundle in brick colored Paper for you. I put up yr. damaged Cambrick and your undamaged silk Handkerchief with yr. injured muslin dos. I could not impose anything more on the Doctors Goodness than what I have done or I would have added something belonging to you with a few Articles for Mr. Cranch. I will omit no good Opportunity of sending the whole. We have nothing of Decision from the southward that can be depended on; for, tho’ Govr. Jefferson writes on the 26th that Cornwallis was retreating as rapidly as he had advanced, yet he mixes some Circumstances that we know are not true. Genl. Green wrote on the 15 that he himself had crossed the Dan without any Loss of Men or Baggage, but that he was not in condition to oppose the Enemy at all the Fords which would that Evening be passable and therefore he should not attempt to do it at any—that the militia were not coming to reinforce him and some were even leaving him—that his own Troops were in fine Spirits though they might be tracked by their bloody Feet. Govr. Jefferson says Cornwallis was retreating towards Hilsborough, and that Genl. Caswell was in his Rear with 4000. I think this probable from knowing Caswell’s Influence; but it is a vi[le] toryish Country from Hilsborough to Cape Fear so that the 4000 will not grow. The Enemy are 3,250, but, if actually on the Retreat, the Hessian Brigade will as usual lose much of its Strength by Desertions.
