March 6, 1781 23 will I suppose accompany us—if he does not entangle himself with the Ladies for he is a Favorite. Our Southern affairs wear a promising Aspect. Lord Cornwallis is retreating after a rapid march in pursuit of the Prisoners taken from his Army by General Morgan to no purpose. There is the greatest probability that he will share the Fate of Burgoine. Arnold who is Entrenched at Portsmouth in Virginia appears to be in greater danger: but we must wait the Events of War in anxious Sollitude. Cornwallis followed General Green’s small Army which has been assembling since Gates’s defeat upwards of 330 or 340 miles, from Cambden in South Carolina to the Borders of Virginia. The Retreat of Greene gave the Militia an Opportunity of Collecting, And they were becoming formidable. Cornwallis now saw his danger and retreated back as fast as possible and General Greene with his Army and the militia are in pursuite of him, and he has besides a large body of militia in his front who will interrupt his progress. So soon has the Scene changed and such is the Fortune of War! Our daughter is in good health. She Joins me in wishing sincerely to be with you and in affectionate Respects to all our Friends. Kiss and bless for us our dear Children; And believe that no Absence or distance will abate the unalterable Affection and Fidelity of my dearest Polly, your Affect. Husband, Jas. Duane 1 RC (NHi: Duane Papers). 1 Duane wrote another letter to Mary on March 11, primarily discussing domestic affairs but also reporting that “we are in daily expectation of agreeable news from the Southward which will have a decisive Influence on our Affairs. Great Exertions have been made and are making to reduce both Cornwallis & his Army in North Carolina & Arnold & his detachment in Virginia to the Condition of Burgoine and the prospect in both Cases is the most flattering....It is reported here that Mr Peter du Bois & Mr Helmes a Lawyer are come out of the City of New York & surrendered themselves. It is certain that once more the Inhabitants of that City are filled with Terror on the prospect of our Successes & some disagreable news from England.” Duane Papers, NHi. Samuel Huntington to Nathanael Greene Sir, Philadelphia March 6. 1781 I have received your Letters of the 10th & 15th Ulto and forwarded your Despatches to Genl Washington. 1 I am happy to receive the earliest Intelligence from the Southward, but, in your present Situation, ever readily excuse your not multiplying Dupli cates of the Intelligence. You will receive enclosed a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 1st Instant, by which you will be informed the Articles of Confederation are finally ratified by all the States.
