March 6, 1781 25 me to yours, inclosing a letter for Mr. Dumas. This is extraordinary, as I wrote to you, the first post after the receipt of that letter. 2 But this conveyance is at present, so ill managed, that it is by no means to be depended on. One of my letters I lately wrote to the southward, has also been miscarried. The public is at a most enormous expense in supporting the post office, but it appears to me that they derive very little benefit from it. However, sir, this accident shall not discourage me from troubling with a few lines whenever any thing turns up worthy your notice. Our preperations for a final ratification of the Confederation, have suspended for a time our plan of finance. Our constitution being so materially changed, that we have felt a little awkward in our new gears; however we have got pretty well used to them now, 8c have again entered on business. I hope our new constitution will prove the means of introducing a more clear 8c perfect understanding between Congress 8c the States. And whilst the first continue to confine themselves within the strict limits of their authority, the latter will conceive themselves bound by the most sacred ties implicitly to support them. The want, hitherto, of a proper line to be drawn between Congress, & the states, has been the cause of numberless embarrassments: for whilst the States were left ad libitum, some would do a great deal, some a little, 8c others scarcely anything. The evii consequences resulting from this conduct are apparent. My expectations are highly flattered by this important event, 8c anticipate in my own mind the most happy consequences resulting from it. The return of the French fleet to Rhode Island I suppose you are acquainted with. This must of course frustrate the Marquis’s expedi tion. We have not heard from the southward since the 10th ulto. but we are in hourly expectation of an express from thence. We have just received dispatches from the So. ward which inform us, that Cornwallis is retreating, that Genl. Caswell had collected 4000 North Carolina Militia in his front, 8c 6000 Virginians were in his rear. This looks well, 8c probably some important stroke may be made at him before he gets back. Genls. Mughlenburgh 8c Nelson was laying close siege to Arnold at Portsmouth with 4500 men. They had advanced to within a mile of his works with two mortars. Their advanced posts were within a qr. of a mile of each other—but the dog can get away by means of his shipping, unless the French fleet can prevent him. I am Dr. sir, with the most perfect Esteem Regard, yr. most Obedt. Servt. Jno. Mathews RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). 1 Probably Livingston’s daughter Catharine, for whom see Mathews to Catharine Livingston, September 12, 1780. 2 For his reply to Livingston’s letter of February 6 enclosing a letter for Charles W.F. Dumas, see Mathews to Livingston, February 12, 1781.
