March 6, 1781 29 I am most respectfully, Dear Sir your most obedt. Servt, Jno Sullivan 1 RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 1 Below Sullivan’s signature, the following endorsement by Gen. Benjamin Lincoln, dated April 16, 1781, appears: “In my opinion as the lad mentioned above did not sign an inlisting paper he cannot be held.” John Sullivan to John Langdon Dear Sir Philadelphia [March 6? 1781] 1 I am honored with your favor of the 19th Ultimo. As you and I seem to be agreed respecting a medium & as I have no reason to Dispute your opinion respecting my abilities as a Financier unless I should Depart from my usual method & Strive to obtain a Judgment against myself I shall not Trouble you with any Comments on that part of your letter. The War Department you Seem to avoid giving an opinion upon. I can Guess your Sentiments only from your placing the refusal in the Last Stage of your Letter. I have generally observed that Luzernne will State a matter in Every point of view always reserving for the Last that point in which they wish the Question to be taken. If I am right in this Your Sentiments & mine Coincide & I Shall not be Liable to abuse for Serving my Country, or part with the Sweets of Domestic Life for an office which Depends on the will, the Caprice or the Fancy of Individuals. The Choice of this officer is however postponed. 2 The news of the City is that Lord Cornwallis pursued General Green to Dan River which Green Crossed, that the militia Gathered round on all Sides which oblidged his Lordship to retreat & Green is in pursuit of him. This Comes by a Letter from the Governor of Virginia & is Confirmed by a number of others all Dated the 26th of Feby. 3 They all agree that his retreat began the Twenty first of Feby and I have no reason to Doubt but I have Some Apprehensions that this is a Maneuvre to bring General Green to an Action. Your Assembly has been pretty well worked up by Mr Olcutt to Act Just as New York would wish them & have given me Instructions Accordingly 4 but I must obey & they must Look to the Event. I beg you will make my Compliments agreable to Mrs Langdon & believe me to be with great Truth & Sincerity, Dear Sir Your most obedt. Servt. Jno. Sullivan RC (Capt. J.G.M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). 1 The dateline is badly faded, but Sullivan probably wrote this letter on March 6, when he wrote letters of similar content to Meshech Weare and George Washington, and after the March 5th reading in Congress of Thomas Jefferson’s February 26 letter, herein discussed by Sullivan.
