30 March 6, 1781 2 For the postponement of “the election of a Secretary at War...to the first day of October next,” see JCC, 19:205; and the following entry, note 4. 3 See Samuel Huntington to Washington, March 6, 1781, note 1. 4 See Sullivan’s letters to Meshech Weare of February 5, notes 3-5, and of this date. John Sullivan to George Washington Dear General Philadelphia March 6th 1781 I was Duly honored with your Excellencys favor of the 4th of Feby 1 & omitted writing since upon a Supposition that you had gone to Rhode Island. I am happy to find your Excellency Entertains the Same Sentiments of the virtues and abilities of Colo Hamilton, as I have Ever Done myself. 2 After I wrote your Excellency I found The Eyes of Congress Turned on Robert Morris of this City as Financier. I did not therefore nominate Colo Hamilton as I foresaw that it would be but a vain attempt. I Shall this Day nominate him as Secretary of Foreign Affairs on which I Think I Shall meet the Approbation of most of the States. 3 The Choice of a Minister of war is postponed to the first of October. This was a Maneuvre of Sami Adams & others from the North, fearing that as I was in nomination, the Choice would fall on me who having apostatized from the True New England Faith by Sometimes voting with the Southern States am not Eligible. They were not however acquainted with all the Circumstances. I was nominated against my will & if Chosen Should not have Accepted. 4 General Me Dougie is appointed minister of marine. 5 The plan of Finance & all other matters go on So Slowly that I Tremble at the Consequence. I am mortified at the useless harangues which Con sume our Time to no purpose. I am now Endeavoring to obtain an Adjournment of Congress & for Leaving a Committee to Transact the Business as the only way of having the Publick Business Done with propriety and Dispatch. 6 I fully agree with your Excellency That Congress ought to have more power but I also think that the old members Should be in Heaven or at Home before this Takes place. The Traffic carried on with the Enemy is alarming as it not only Serves to furnish them with necessaries but Tends to reconcile our Citizens to the Idea of renewing their Connection with Great Britain and of Course Disaffects them to our Government. Since General Greens Letter of the 15th February we have received advices from Governor Jefferson & Divers others that Cornwallis is retreating that General Green Crossed the River in pursuit of him the 21st & that the Militia had Collected all round him: I hope it is not a Maneuvre to bring General Green to an Action.
