March 6, 1781 31 I have been Settleing my Accounts with the Treasury Board & find I Stand Charged with Money received at Cambridge to pay the Bounty to the New Hampshire recruits in 1776. All my papers were Lost at New York & I can remember Little of the matter. This I am Sure of That I never received any publick money but what I immediately applied to the use Intended. Perhaps Colo Harrison has Some papers which will Settle the matter. I also am Charged with the money paid for the Troops Engaged at Trenton in December 1776. I remember the whole of this was Settled at Morristown about two months after & I received a receipt in full which is in New Hampshire. Perhaps your papers may Save me the Trouble of Sending for it. I have the Honor to be with the High[est] Esteem Dear General yr most obedt Ser[vt], Jno. Sullivan RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Washington’s February 4 letter to Sullivan is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:181-83. 2 Washington had described his aide Alexander Hamilton in glowing terms: “there are few men to be found, of his age, who has a more general knowledge than he possesses, and none whose Soul is more firmly engaged in the cause, or who exceeds him in probity and Sterling virtue.” Ibid., p. 181. 3 No nomination for “Secretary of Foreign Affairs” was entered in the journals on March 6; nor had Hamilton been nominated on January 17 when the names of Robert R. Livingston and Arthur Lee were placed before Congress for that post. ICC, 19:65. 4 The reasons given for this postponement varied widely. Sullivan’s view that his candidacy was the principal cause was shared by James Mitchell Varnum. Although Ezekiel Cornell, a member of the Board of War and former congressional delegate, wrote on February 19 that he expected “that General Sullivan will be Elected to the head of the War Office in a few days,” Varnum later explained to Washington that the election has been postponed “to get rid of the Embarrassment” of Sullivan’s nomination. See Staples, Rhode Island, pp. 329-30; and Varnum to Washington, August 20, 1781. In contrast to Sullivan’s assessment of Samuel Adams’ motive in opposing his election, the French minister La Luzerne believed that Adams’ opposition was based on principle rather than personal animosity, explaining to the comte de Vergennes on March 25 that Adams feared that transferring such power from congressional committees to executive departments headed by independent officials would under mine the authority of Congress. Correspondance politique, Etats-Unis, 16:6, Archives du Ministere des affaires etrangeres. And Philip Schuyler explained the postpone ment to Washington on April 3 in the following, very different terms: “The motives which led Congress to postpone filling the War department have leaked out, and been communicated to me. General Gates was in nomination; but his friends, reflecting that the impropriety of appointing him before he had exculpated himself from the imputation of misconduct in his command, would be too glaring an abuse of power, deferred it, in hopes that, by an acquittal, the public confidence will be restored to him.” Washington Papers, DLC. For Washington’s consternation over Congress’ refusal to fill the post, which for a time he believed would go to Schuyler, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:261-62, 360, 374. 5 See Samuel Huntington to Alexander McDougall, March 2, 1781. 6 For this effort, see John Sullivan’s and James M. Varnum’s Memorial, February 28; and Thomas Rodney’s Diary, March 2, 1781.
