March 6, 1781 33 Design, or, mistake of Colo Olcutt—perhaps I may be mistaken but the reasons are Submitted to the wisdom of the assembly. I do not mention These things to [hold] up the Idea of Deviating in the Least [degree] from my Late Instructions but as a Justification of my Conduct prior to the receipt of my Late Instructions. 4 I have the honor to be, with respect your most obedient Servant, Jno. Sullivan RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See Sullivan to Weare, February 5, 1781. 2 For further information on the February 7, 1780, “petition” of Peter Olcott and Bezaleel Woodward and the status of the Vermont controversy in Congress at that time, see James Lovell to Samuel Adams, February 1, 1780, note 1. 3 The “views of New York” on the Vermont question were stated in the letters of the New York Delegates to George Clinton, March 11, and Alexander McDougall to Clinton, March 12, 1781. 4 The New Hampshire delegates had been instructed on January 13 to seek a “speedy decision respecting the claim of this State to the New Hampshire Grants.” N.H. Stale Papers, 8:884-85. Although the journals are silent on the point, Sullivan did move at this time to seek a determination on Vermont’s claim to independence, according to the testimony of the New York delegates, for which see New York Delegates to George Clinton, Marchi 1; and Alexander McDougall to Clinton, March 12, 1781. Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson Sir Phila. 6th Mar. 1781 The Minister of France having imparted to Mr. Jones as Chair man of a Committee appointed to confer with him 1 on Some Secret matters the intentions of Ct. Rochambeau and Mr. Destouches explained in the inclosed note, 2 we thought it of such consequence that your Excellency should be certainly apprized of them, that notwithstanding the probability of the communication being made through some other channel we determined to guard against all risk of failure by despatching one of the established Expresses. As the success of the Enterprize may depend much on secrecy of prepara tion, and celerity of execution, We beg leave to intimate to your Excellency, that it is the wish of the Minister that no persons should be admitted to a knowledge of it, from whom it can be justifiably concealed, and that such military Stores, particularly heavy cannon & mortars, as are in the hands of the state and will be wanted for a siege may be in readiness to go forward at a moment’s call. The Minister also wishes that some supplies of provision, of beef espe cially, for the French troops may be included in your general preparations. We are with great respect, Yr. Excelys. obed. hum Servts. Jos. Jones Jas. Madison Junr.
