36 March 8, 1781 a very long debate ensued. Some few only were against recommend ing it to the States to repeal all their Tender Laws thinking it would give a fatal Stab to the new Money. All the rest were for having this done and for paying our debts Honestly, but Could not agree in the Manner of doing it, So that the Whole day was Taken up in debating about the form of a Resolution Suited to the Occasion and one form after another was voted out Till all the parties got bewildered in the debate and at length Adjourned desiring that Some Member Would have one ready against the Morning Whereupon I Took upon me to prepair the following Resolutions Vizt. 2 “Whereas the United States in Congress Assembled, being Con vinced that Honesty is the best police in publick, as well as private, affairs are determined to conform faithfully To the Golden rule of Equity & Justice—Therefore Resolved that all the debts and Contracts now due, or which May hereafter become due from the United States, to any person or persons whatsoever (being first liquidated according to the real value of the Money Lent or Contracted for, at the Time of Lending or Contracting) Shall be paid in Specie or an equivalent in paper Money, Computed at its current not legal Value When paid: Any thing heretofore done to the Contrary notwithstanding. All persons Acting under the Authority of the United States are required To Take notice of this resolution & Govern themselves accordingly. And that the officers of the United States, may not be prevented from discharging their Several duties under the above resolution, or Offend against Any Law or Laws of the respective States Making paper Money legal Tender—Resolved that it be recommended To the respective States to revise and repeal all those Laws—As in the opinion of Congress they are greatly prejudicial to the Interest of the United States and Tend rather to depreciate than Support the Credits of their Money—which Cannot be done effectu ally but by providing Sufficient funds of Specie by Taxs or Other wise, for the purpose of redeeming & Sinking it”. MS (DLC: Rodney Family Papers). 1 See JCC, 19:245. Rodney was referring to Timothy Pickering’s March 3 letter to President Huntington, which is in PCC, item 192, fols. 49-56. 2 These resolutions are not recorded in the journals, but they may have formed the basis for similar resolutions molded in the committee of the whole and adopted by Congress on March 16. JCC, 19:266-67. Thomas Rodney’s Notes [post March 8, 1781]' Caractors of Some of the Members of Congress. His Excellency Samuel Huntington President is a Man of a Mild, Steady & firm Conduct and of Sound & Methodical Judgment tho
