42 March 9, 1781 receiving the board’s recommendation in his favor on March 20, Congress immedi ately ordered that he be paid “seven hundred and fifty dollars new emission” in satisfaction of the claim. See JCC, 19:264, 283; and PCC, item 136, 5:179-82. Committee of Congress to George Washington Dear General Philadelphia March 9th 1781 Your Excellencys Letter of the 20th of December, was refered to a Committee of which I have the Honor to be one. 1 We yesterday gave in a Report which being read appeared Satisfactory to Congress as no objection was made to it. I moved That previous to its being Considered it might be refered to your Excellency for your opinion upon which it was recommitted; and The Committee Instructed to Consult your Excellency upon it. I Therefore take the Liberty of Inclosing your Excellency a Copy of the Report and of requesting (in behalf of the Committee) your opinion upon it. The first Paragraph is agreeable to the Line of promotion which your Excellency was pleased to point out: But as it could not be Extended to Hazens Regiment & others in Similar Circumstances the 2d Resolution became Necessary. The Third & fourth respecting the Artillery and Cavalry are Liable to Some objections but much Less so than any other which Suggested themselves to the Committee. The Promotion of Brigadiers & Major Generals comes nearer to that of rising in the Line of the Army than any which has yet been Adopted or Suggested, and any other would be attended with Insuperable Difficulties—That of Suffering the States to have offi cers according to the number of Troops furnished would prove injurious to officers of the Smaller States & Even if they were to Stand Intituled to promotions when they became the Senior officers In the Line of the Army. Their promotion would be uncertain as they would Constantly have to Combat with the Interest of States & the Caprice of Individuals to obtain it. The Committee will Thank your Excellency for your Sentiments upon Every Paragraph of the Report 2 and beg you to give the Date of Colo Tilghman & Doctor McHenrys Entering the Service. 3 In behalf of the Committee, I have the honor to be with the Most Lively Sentiments of affection and Esteem Dr Genl, your Excellencys most obedt Servant. Jno Sullivan, Chairman P.S. The Clause respecting volunteers will prevent the Army from being Commanded by illiterate Serjeants which must inevitably be the Case in a few years if Some Such mode is not adopted. J.S. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Written and signed by John Sullivan. 1 For the committee appointed on January 1 to consider Washington’s December 20 letter, respecting the promotion of Continental officers, see Sullivan to Washing-
