50 March 11, 1781 a door to so much speculation and fraud, that it is in contemplation to call in the old emission after the time they ought to have been cancelled by taxes agreeably to the Act of the 18th March. If our State should think proper to pass a law similar to that of Pennsylvania or New Jersey, and Congress should take decisive order to bring in the old emission, it may be taken for granted, that when Pennsylvania shall have issued their proportion of the new money, the people of that State will be glad to exchange at your Treasury, on the same terms as others had in their own, rather than suffer the old emission to sink in their hands. This event would furnish our State with the means of issuing the new bills under vast advantages, as 75 dollars of the old would enable us to put in circulation near four of the new, and the debt of 200,000,000 dollars would be cancelled almost insensibly. We have executed the trust reposed in us by the Legislature respecting the Western Territory within our State. 5 From the manner in which this business was conducted it was left to us make the cession without a formal treaty with Congress. We therefore availed ourselves of the discretionary clause of our instructions, and have limited the State by a western boundary which, if there is any correctness in the maps must include the whole of Lake Ontario, and more considerably than twenty miles west of Niagara, and our Northern boundary we have limited by the forty fifth degree of N. Latitude. But lest it might possibly happen that this Western Boundary should fall short of the ultimatum assigned by the Legislature, we have made their ultimatum itself an alternative in that case in the words in which it is expressed in the instruction. Virginia demanded in consideration of the cession she made, which consists of her claim to the Northwest of the Ohio, an explicit guarantee by the United States of her remaining jurisdiction. If we had in express terms made the same condition, it might have been liable to a construction that we were seeking a benefit, instead of conferring a favor; and yet it would have been imprudent to bind our State in a special guarantee of the jurisdiction of Virginia, when our own was not secured in the same manner. We therefore thought it necessary to connect our cession with an Act which subjects it to the ratification or disallowance of the Legislature, unless our State received the same guarantee from the confederated States as any other of its members which have or shall make cessions of territory for the common benefit. We flatter ourselves that this precaution, though not directed by the Legislature, will meet with your Excellency’s and their approba tion. The authentic copies of the declaration and instrument of cession are herewith transmitted. The government of New Hampshire has lately pressed Congress
