March 11, 1781 51 in the most earnest terms to decide on the Vermont claims of independence, which has given that State a full Share of the fatal effects of this revolt. General Sullivan has accordingly moved Congress to come to a determination, and as he appears to be serious, it is probable that they will give the judgement which has been delayed but too long. 6 General McDougall has undertaken to detail this vexatious business; to his letter on this point we beg leave to refer. 7 Mr. Robert Morris is elected Superintendt. of the Finances, and Genl. McDougall Sec’ry of Marine, but neither have yet de clared their acceptance. The late Board of War is continued in the administration of that department till the fall, it being conceived imprudent to hazard a change when the campaign is nearly open ing. The Secretary of Foreign Affairs is not yet appointed. Our Southern operations wear the most promising aspect. Gen eral Cornwallis is retreating, the country armed on all sides of him, and General Greene in pursuit; in several Skirmishes we have had the advantage. Arnold is not in a better Situation, as the Virginians, supported by Some Continental Troops will speedily be reinforced by the Marquis de la Fayette at the head of 1200 light infantry. We hope soon to send you agreeable intelligence from those armies, which will have a decisive influence on our affairs. The collection of papers which are enclosed will communicate the particulars of our Southern operations and all the news. We have omitted two important objects of your Excellency’s representation, the defence of our frontiers, and a provision for the Oneidas. Your Excellency knows that the Commander in Chief has unlimited authority to direct the operations of the war, and to dispose of the troops at his pleasure. 8 And we are confident his sensibility and his particular regard for our State will induce him to take every measure for our protection which your Excellency may recommend as necessary. The Oneidas, we hope, are by this time in Some measure relieved, as the Commander in Chief acquaints the Board of War, that the clothing he had to spare would, he hoped, be sufficient for the present to make them comfortable. 9 We are most unfortunate in the importation of our clothing: Colo. Lawrence and Colo. Palfry who are lately gone to France 10 on publick business have this necessary Article in Charge And we hope they will be able to send it forward. There is nothing gives Congress so much pain as the delays & too probably the sinister designs & frauds which have exposed our Army to nakedness & distress: At a time when a considerable Quantity of Clothing was actually pur chased We can’t entertain a doubt but if these Supplies arrive our Oneida freinds will have a Share. At present while it is impossible to Cover our own Army they cannot expect to be provided for as their sufferings & their merit require.
