March 13, 1781 57 men should ever be biassed in their Choice by unreasonable Predilections for any Men, or that an Attachment to the Constituion should be lost “in Devotion to Persons.” The Effect of this wd soon be to change the Love of Liberty into the Spirit of Faction. Let each Citizen remember, at the Moment he is offering his Vote, that he is not making a Present or a Compliment to please an Individual, or at least that he ought not so to do, but that he is executing one of the most solemn Trusts in human Society, for which he is accountable to God & his Country”—“When the great Body of the People are determind not to be imposd upon by a false Glare of Virtues held before their Eyes; but, making up their own Minds shall impartially give in their Suffrages, after their best Inquiry into the Characters of Candidates, for those whom they judge to be the fittest Persons, there will be no Danger that the generous Enthusiasm of Liberty so characteristick of the People of Massachusetts will ever sink into the Violence & Rage of Party, which has often provd fatal to free Republicks.” 2 FC (NN: Adams Papers). In the hand of Samuel Adams, and endorsed by him: “The foregoing was sent to Mr. Edes by the Post. March 13, 1781.” 'This essay appeared in Benjamin Edes’ Boston Gazette, April 2, 1781, under the heading: “Extract of a Letter from the Southward.” Adams wrote it in hopes of inspiring the Massachusetts voters at the annual state election to select the “fittest persons” for higher office, i.e. the opponents of John Hancock, the incumbent governor and a political rival. In the April election, Adams was chosen for the Massachusetts Senate for Suffolk County and when the new members convened he was elected president of the senate. William V. Wells, The Life and Public Services of Samuel Adams, 3 vols. (Boston: Little, Brown & Co., 1865), 3:138. 2 The following disparaging comments about Hancock were also written by Artemas Ward to Samuel Osgood, newly elected Massachusetts delegate to Congress, in a March 13 letter extracted in Charles Martyn, The Life of Artemas Ward, the First Commander-in-Chief of the American Army (New York: Artemas Ward, 1921), p. 258. “Measures ought to be taken by the States to inform Congress of everything they have done in consequence of their requisitions for men & money. Since Novr last the Governor gives no more information than if he was at the East Indies, notwithstand ing it is his duty. If he don’t know his duty I wish his Council would advise him; if they don’t know it to be his duty, do let some body be appointed to teach them.” Samuel Adams to Jeremiah Powell Sir, 1 Philadelphia, 13th March, 1781. I beg the favor of you to communicate to the General Assembly my wish to return home as early as may be; and to request that I may be relieved by one of my colleagues, or in such manner as shall be thought most proper. 2 I flatter myself I shall be excused in making this request, from a consideration of the length of time since I last left Massachusetts,
