March 16, 1781 61 furnishing the waggoners what they want transmit the balance to me to settle with them here. I have advanced them thirty pounds of the new money equal to Specie at the regulated exchange and also twelve hundred dollars Virga. State paper or they would not move and Mr. Dunlap assured me he could not furnish the money. I am Gent. yr. most obed. Servt., Joseph Jones Reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 5:157-58. 1 For John Dunlap’s enclosed “account,” see ibid., p. 158. For the Virginia government’s venture in establishing a press in Richmond, see ibid., 3:579-80, 4:396, 431-32; Jones to Thomas Jefferson, February 6; and Virginia Delegates to Jefferson, February 20, 1781. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry Dear Sir March 16 1781 I am endeavoring to save myself from Ruin and to serve another as effectually as if I went on in the old Course of neglecting my Family. I mean to pay into your Hand for M— D’s 1 use 140 Spanish milled Dollrs. or the equivalent and not merely 700 Livres Tournois. Take therefore from me whatever is the Exchange. My Friends pd. from 75 to 78, but perhaps it may have been raised a little by a Run of Paper from this Quarter or it may have fallen by “The Arrival of a french Frigate at Boston with four Million Dollars.” 2 I would have you do full Justice to M— D and I know you will also act the friendly part to me. If Bills are there, as I hear they are, you make an advantageous Purchase of them to the amount of what you shall think proper to demand of me in Exch. of the 140 Ds. which I mean to pay. But, if you think it more essential to M.D.’s. Interests you may purchase the Coin, and remit it to buy a Bill here; where 4/6 Pensylvania will purchase 4/4 1/2 sterling. That is, provided the minister shd. continue drawing. M— D preferred having it done there, that the Proceeds might also remain under your Discretion. It was a Loss to me of 1300 Dollrs. that the 49 State were sent instead of 25 hard which they would have purchased. I am told also that I lose the Interest on every Sum reed, from the State. However, as I mentioned to you confidentially before, I am determined not to be the martyr of that and other such like Circumstances to which I have long been exposed. 3 I send you now only 6360 Dollars, not knowing M D’s Wishes till this Evening, and the Bearer being to set off in the Morning; and he being also in doubt whether he shall be able to take the Size of a Letter from me. But you must not omit to do the needful on that Score because I know of a good Opportunity to transmit you more in a few days that you can have occasion for; and the Surplus of
