March 16, 1781 63 Jesse Root to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Please your Excellency Philadelphia March 16 1781 Mr Brown arrived here day before yesterday 1 & we were hon oured with your Two letters with their enclosures, the act of assembly vesting Congress with the power of laying duties on Imports for so limited a period as three years after the end of the war, I fear will in a great measure defeat the Important end proposed. 2 Our debt is very Considerable now and will be annually increased while the war lasts—can it be Supposed that those duties with the other aid the States will be able to give will be Sufficient to discharge the national debt within that period. Besides Congress have no resources for Supplies or funds on which to obtain a Credit, but from the States—and Can the States furnish us with either in So easy & equitable a way as by duties & Imposts—it would be easy to borrow money at home or abroad were we possessed of funds Commensurate to the loans or even to the Interest of the Sums we need—at present we are obliged to draw bills of Exchange on our Minister at the Court of France at a great risque & Sell them at a great loss. Congress in a Committe of the whole have agreed to report that an Estimate of the Sums wanted for the Current year, beyond those all ready Called for, be transmitted to the States, & that they be Called upon for 6,000,000 of dollars to be paid in Specie or the new Continental bills in quarterly payments. I think that the old Conti nental bills Should be Called in or exchanged at their Current value & that the new bills Should Issue equal to Specie, in this Case neither the public or Individuals Can Suffer & there is nothing in the resolves of Congress that Contradict this, the Committee of the whole have likewise agreed to report to recommend to the States to Amend their laws making paper bills or tender other ways than ad valorem. 3 I inclose Some extracts from Govr Jeffersons letter 4 which Con tains the Substance of the intelligence from the Southward. I must leave Congress by the Middle of April. Genl Woolcot designs to leave it Sooner & Mr Huntington is determined to go home about the last of April. Some Gentlemen must Come on or the State will be without a representation in Congress. March 17th. The Resolutions mentioned to have been agreed in Committee are now passed in Congress & will be forwarded by Brown. Mr Robt Morriss is elected Superintendant of Finance, Genl McDougal Secretary of marine—both have given their answer but
