64 March 16, 1781 State terms, which Congress have not yet decided upon. Exchange between the old Continental & Specie is 130 for 1. It seems pretty well Confirmed that the british only Cut out the american vessels at St Eustacia. With Sentiments of the highest respect, your most obedt humble Servt, Jesse Root RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 Upon messenger Jesse Brown’s arrival, Connecticut delegate Samuel Huntington executed the following receipt, dated “Philadelphia March 14th, 1781,” for money from the state treasurer. “Receivd of John Lawrence Esqr Treasurer of Connecticutt by the hand of Jesse Brown Two thousand Seven hundred & four dollars in Continental bills of old Emissions prior to the 18th of March 1780, it being the Same Sum for which I have drawn an order on the Said Treasurer in favour of Said Brown.” Seaport Autographs Catalogue, no. 35 (July 1987), item 44 (photofacsimile), p. 2 See Samuel Huntington’s first letter to Trumbull of March 24, 1781. 3 Samuel Huntington to the States, March 23, 1781. 4 That is, Gov. Thomas Jefferson’s March 8, 1781, letter which was read in Congress on March 15. See PCC, item 71, 2:53-55; and JCC, 19:262. John Sullivan to Alexander McDougall Dear Sir Philadelphia March 16th 1781 After considering the Subject you were pleased to mention To me this morning; with all the Coolness which a matter of such Impor tance requires; I am of opinion That Either Mr. Burk or myself must Stand in the Light of an aggressor by the Correspondence between us; without any relation to the Confidential State of Facts which I took the Liberty of Laying before you; and that this cannot alter the nature of the Dispute. 1 I am Therefore inclined to think, that there would be a manifest Impropriety in making it the Basis of a Decision; for though I am convinced of the Justice of the Relation; yet as it mentions two other Persons, either of whom I had much greater Reason to Suspect than Mr Burk, it will have an appearance of shifting a Supposed Charge from one to another to avoid Consequences; And as Mr Burk took up the Matter and applied it to himself without proper Evidence and made that the Foundation for a Letter so full of Asperity: I cannot Suppose that My Explanatory Letter (intended only to Satisfy you that I was not the aggressor) Should be Considered as having any weight in the Determination: for when Considered as Intended for your Information, it is proper and necessary. But if Considered as a Communication from me to Mr Burk through you; it will amount to an Explanation of my Letter to Congress which Mr Burk has already Demanded and I have refused; & which I think from the Correspondence Mr Burk is by no means Intitled to. I am far from wishing to Sport with my own Life,
