March 16, 1781 65 or to Deprive Society of so useful a member as I am Convinced Mr Burk is. Yet Disagreable & Hazardous as the Task may be; the Justice I owe to myself will not Suffer me to Avoid this Event at the Expence of my own reputation. These are my Sentiments upon the Subject; and if yours Correspond with them; (and no other mode for Compromizing the Dispute, can be adopted) I shall however reluc tant Submit to a Decision by Arms & Leave the Event to Fortune. 2 But should you be of Different Sentiments as I have called upon you to Act as Guardian to my Honor I shall acquiesce in your opinion. I have the Honor to be very respectfully Dear Sir your most obedt Servt, J no Sullivan P.S. If Mr Burk had in his first Letter requested an Explanation of That part of mine to Congress which he Erroneously Supposed was intended for him (personally) & had Informed me of the part he had taken in Congress & had Even in Decent Terms hinted his opinion respecting my Conduct & Capacity as an officer I Should have given him the Explanation Contained in my Confidential Letter to you & Endeavored to remove his ill grounded prejudice against me. But when he undertook by Letter to Inform against himself & in Justification to accuse me of the want of Every Talent requisite for an officer & this without the proper Evidence, & I am Sure I need not tell You That the whole Army from the Commander in Chief to the Lowest Soldier (with only one or two Exceptions) would Join in refuting the assertions: I say to a Letter of this Complextion for me to have given him the Explanation he De manded would have Argued a want of Spirit and Even a meaness which in any Event Mr. Burk shall find me Incapable of, & I must Submit to Your Judgment whether Admitting my Confidential Letter to Serve as a Basis for reconciliation will not be Tantamount to what he has heretofore very improperly Demanded & I have peremptorily refused. Yrs, &ca. JS RC (NHi: McDougall Papers). Sullivan, Papers (Hammond), 3:296-98. Addressed: “Honble Major General McDougle, General Sullivan will wait on Genl McDougle at Ten of Clock this morning.” 1 For this "Dispute,” see Sullivan to McDougall, January 27, 1781, note 1. 2 Sullivan was ultimately spared having to resolve his dispute with Thomas Burke by resort to arms, for McDougall and Burke’s second (Hugh Shiell) were preparing the ground for a resolution that rested upon mutual declarations of the two seconds, rather than of the two principals. That is, McDougall later disingenuously avowed that it was not Burke who was the actual object of Sullivan’s protest to Congress of September 27, 1777, and in turn Shiell declared that Burke’s response had not been intended as a “personal insult.” See McDougall to Sullivan, May 22, 1781.
