March 20, 1781 69 Excellency on the Subject of Col Smith, & the 4 Artillery Compa nies—these papers are referd to a committee of which I am one. 2 I shall be glad to receive every information in your power on the Subject—particularly relative to the Artillery Companys. I believe there are among the Council papers, Some Letters from Genl. Washington, & returns showing that almost the whole of Harrisons Regt of artillery was compos’d of Maryland troops. Extracts of what may appear proper from these letters, & a copy of the returns (which I cannot get from the board of war) may serve to put that business in a way to obtain justice. The State appears to have been injurd by the arrangement, & some of her Officers in consequence of it. I am Dear Sir, with great esteem, your Excellencys Mo Obt Servt. Daniel Carroll RC (MdAA: Red Books). 1 For this letter, which Carroll had misdated March 20, see Carroll to Lee, March 18, 1781, note 1. 2 For Lee’s “two letters” of February 1 and 12 requesting the rank of lieutenant colonel for Alexander Lawson Smith and commissions for the officers of the state’s four artillery companies, see PCC, item 147, 6:267-70; and Md. Archives, 45:297-98, 308, where Lee’s first letter is dated February 2. The Board of War’s March 6 report was read in Congress the following day and referred to a committee of three chaired by Carroll. The journals contain no further mention of the committee. See JCC, 19:240-41; and PCC, item 147, 6:259-63. James Duane to Mary Duane My Dearest Polly Philad. 20t March 1781 I have written by this Conveyance to our Governour 1 giving him Notice of my Intention to return home as soon as the Roads permit, and requesting that some of the other Gentlemen may be sent to keep up our Representation in Congress. Whether the Legislature complies with my request or not I shall, I flatter myself, be with you before the first of May as I most impatiently long to be with you. I am considering a mode of Conveyance as my daughter tho’ pressed to pass the Summer with Mrs. Peters will accompany me. A few days will decide the fate of Arnold, as it is more than probable that by this time the French and British fleets have had an Engagement. Their force is equal and the French went to the Southward with an Intention to fight and an opinion that they woud be victorious. We are greatly superior to Arnold’s detachment by Land and he can only hope to escape; not to retain possession of Portsmouth, and much less to make any progress in Virginia. We hear nothing by the last post from General Greene who is in pursuite of the British, under Lord Cornwallis. Our Expectations are high and our Anxiety
