70 March 20, 1781 proportionally great. Present my affectionate Regards to our hon’d Father and all our Friends; & believe me to be with the tenderest Affection, Your faithful Husband, Jas. Duane [P.S.] I omitted to mention that the British have declared War against the Dutch and taken St. Eustatia, Curocoa & 160 Vessels in the Texel. 2 This Event will give us another Ally. Kiss and bless for me our dear Children. Adieu! God bless you. RC (NHi: Duane Papers). 1 Not found. 2 This news appeared in the Pennsylvania Gazette this date, coming to Philadelphia by way of a ship arriving from Antigua. For the events leading to the Anglo-Dutch war, see Jan Willem Schulte Nordholt, The Dutch Republic and American Independence, trans. H.H. Rowen (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1982), chap. 10; and Daniel A. Miller, Sir Joseph Yorke and Anglo-Dutch Relations, 1774-1780 (The Hague: Mouton & Co., 1970), chap. 5. William Floyd to George Clinton Dear Sir Philadelphia, March 20th 1781. On Account of Some disagreeable Information which I have rec’d from my family; as well as on some other Accounts, I am under a Necessity of Returning home, and Shall Sett off in a few days; 1 I considered it my duty to Inform your Excellency of this, that Some person may Come on, to Represent the State. By the Inclosed paper of this days Date, 2 you will See the Manifesto of the King of Britain; which amounts to a Declaration of War against the Dutch. This appears to be a Rash measure, and looks like the Effect of Desparation—what will be the Consequences among the Neutral powers of Europe is not Certain, But we have Reason to Expect that the Armed Neutrality will in General Disap prove of the Conduct of Britain. Arnold’s Situation is very Critical and Dangerous, and We have the Greatest Reason to Expect that he will be Secured in a very few Days if it is not already done. By our last accounts from Cornwallace, he has Retreated near fifty miles, General Green was Reinforced so as to pursue him, and had got within ten miles of his Rear, and was growing stronger Every hour—under those Circumstances we have Reason to hope for a Successful Battle against him which will Restore the two Southern States again to the Union. From Sir Your Most Obedt. and humble Servt. Wm. Floyd RC (N: Clinton Papers). Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 6:708-9. RC charred, missing words supplied from Tr.
