72 March 20, 1781 I see by the Boston News papers that Interest is not to be demanded on the New Bills. It has twice been taken of me on my Draughts. Those Friends you mention think much of you, one of them perhaps ever instead of “never.” I have written to you by a Gentleman of the Name of Randall who left this City 3 days ago. 2 As he went in a Sualky he will not perhaps reach you so soon as this Sheat. I wish you to accomplish the Business for your Friend D 3 which I have mentioned to you. I only wait for another private Hand by which to put you fully in the Way of executing the Business to the Extent I named. And if you chuse to go something beyond, it will be more agreable to the Wish of D who is now fully capable of enabling you to do it, was it decided that you would pursue the first of my measures and not the second. But I have heard since I wrote, that you will find more Difficulty in the first than the 2d. I wish I had been 3 weeks sooner. Upon the whole I confide altogether in yr. Judgement to do the best for D & me. I inclose you some Proceedings of a few Days old which will be forwarded to the Government together with a Proclamation for a Fast the 1st Thursday in May. I hope we shall have great occasion to rejoice also. Much may be done by the Allied Force in Cheseapeak, and I hope the Dutch will instantly combine with France & Spain. George 3d is downright Bobadil 4 at this Period. If you do not get the News before this reaches your Hand you will have it by the Gazette inclosed to all the Extent we have. Give my affectionate Comp[liments] to Doctr. Holten. I intended [to] write to him in answer to his fafvor] by Browne, but I am forced to scratch this at a Window and am too tired to scratch more than that. I am, sincerely, Yours, J.L. RC (MHi: Gerry papers). 1 See Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts General Court, February 27, 1781. 2 See Lovell to Gerry, March 16, 1781. 3 That is, Miss Dalley, for whom see ibid. 4 That is, a cowardly braggart, named for Captain Bobadil, a character in Ben Jonson’s Every Man in His Humor. OED. Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson Sr. Philadelphia March 20th 1781 Since our last nothing new has happend except the Sailing of the French fleet Consisting of (as near as we can obtain intelligence) the Ships and Guns as per list inclosed 1 together with about twelve Hundred of their Chosen troops which we f[l]atter our selves are by this time actively and Successfully employd in our Bay; And the
