March 20, 1781 73 departure of the M de la Fayette with about the Same Number of men (and a fine train of Artillery) who we hope is by this time acting in Conjunction with them, against Arnold. We must add to the above intelligence that a report is Current here and generally believed that the British have taken St. Eustatia and Curassau, with all the Dutch and American Vessels in their Harbors, together with a Dutch Line of Battle Ship. The Admiral who Commanded her said to be Slain and tis further added that they have Saild up the Texel and Taken a great number of the Du[t]ch trading Vessels—this news comes by a Prize brought in here yesterday from Antigua—who has also brought a declaration of Reprisals against Holland by England and whi[ch] we expect will be publishd in the paper of this day. We are Sr. Yr. Excellys Most Obedt. Serts. James Madison Junr. Theok Bland PS. Mr. Hays Set off a few days ago with his printing implements. 2 We sent by him 50 Copies of the last French memorial 3 to be distributed as your Excellency thinks best. He has also a number of Skins, of parchment for the Assembly. RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). Written by Bland and signed by Bland and Madison. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:29-30. 1 The “list inclosed” has not been found, but for a similar list of the “Ships and Guns” of the French fleet, see Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee, March 18, 1781. 2 See Joseph Jones to the Virginia Auditors, March 16, 1781. 3 Not identified. The “last French memorial” entered in the journals was La Luzerne’s brief February 26 letter to Congress announcing the February 11 arrival of Captain Tilly’s small squadron in the Chesapeake—a fact the Virginians would have known for some time and for news of which “50 Copies” would hardly have been necessary. See JCC, 19:199; PCC, item 95, 1:180—81. Oliver Wolcott to Samuel Lyman Sir, Philadelpa. 20th March 1781 I have Wrote you one or two Letters since I reed, any from you, 1 but however I will not insist upon a critical Ballance of Accounts at present. I have reed, a Letter from Oliver of the lOt instant of which you will please to inform him, and thot I shall Acknowlege it in a particular Manner. No News from the Southward. We hear nothing particular of the French and English Fleets since they sailed from the Eastward. Events interesting both in Virginia and N Carolina may be soon expected. The inclosed Papers will inform you of an Event of an important Nature 2 if you shall not have reed, an earlier Acco. of it. I shall make no Observations upon this Affair. Accept this hasty Line from Sir, your Most Obedt. servt. Oliver Wolcott
