March 22, 1781 75 taken up the Hatchet and gone to the attack of Arnold or Cornwallis. I shall however direct it in the old way in hopes that some friendly hand may convey it to you—purely for the sake of telling you we are all well—which I flatter myself is not an uninteresting piece of intelligence to you and Fanny—and also of letting you see that you are not long out of my remembrance. I have received (as I told you in a former letter) your Bantling 2 —tis a fine Girl. I have not fault to find with her but one—which I imagine you[r] friendship for the Meade family has made you run into—if so tis a Venial error lest you shd. not take my meaning. I observe that you have shewn so great a fondness for the word mede, which is at best of an obscure meaning and almost obsolete in the English Language that you have it three times in a short space. I could not acct, for this unless the first time was as a Compliment to David, the second to Dicke & the third to Everard. 3 You may easily perceive that had I not studied the Character of Boys—such an Idea wd. never have enterd my head— the Piece however Jokeing aside has great Merit. I am pleased with it—& it has pleased many more good Judges having been much read among the delitante in this City and as much admired. My time is so totally engrossed in Political disquisitions, and thoughts, that you will not be surprized at any inconsistency you find in my letters—as I have never a moment to thinke before I set down to write. I may truely say my thoughts drop from the Quil. I must request that you will contrive to remit me if Possible the Amount of that Small Ballance in Tobo.—in a Bill on this City for hard Money it being a Commodity I stand much in need of for some Certain Purposes—shd. you not be able to get a Bill for Hard money—I must intreat you to send it in Specie by some safe hand. Can I request another favor viz that you will apply to the Proper office for my depreciation of Pay due to me which I am told the state has Issued to its officers—mine is to be reckond to the 10th day of Jany.1780 at which time my resignation was accepted—shd. you be so fortunate as to obtain it—please to remit it in the most convenient manner you can. I am much distressed for Cash—insomuch that I am unable to pay even for Fanny’s Picture or your locks. I am Dr. Tucker Yr. Friend & Bro. Theok Bland [P.S.] Inclosed I have sent you an oratorio which was performed by Some Gentn. & Ladies the other night at the Minister of France’s Hotel before a numerous Audience at which Mrs. Bland and myself were present. 4 RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 A Tucker plantation in Cumberland Co., Va., west of Richmond. 2 That is, an infant or young child. 3 That is, David, Richard Kidder, and Everard Meade. 4 Bland undoubtedly attended what may have been the first performance of Francis Hopkinson’s “America Independent,” an opera celebrating the Franco-American
