March 23, 1781 81 Samuel Huntington to the States Sir, Circular, Philada March 23, 1781 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, two Acts of Congress of the 16th & 23rd Instant, directing that all Debts liquidated in or contracted for Specie Value shall be paid in Specie or other Money equivalent, according to the current Exchange compared with Specie. 1 Also recommending to the several States to amend their Laws making the Bills of Credit emitted under the Authority of Congress a legal Tender, so that such Bills shall not be a legal Tender in any other Manner than at their current Value compared with Gold & Silver. But, what will more particularly claim the Attention of your Legislature as of great Importance, is, the requisition for six Millions of Dollars, that is one Million & an half of Dollars to be paid quarterly; the first quarterly Payment to be made on the first Day of June next, the Quota of each State being apportioned in the enclosed Act; and Payment to be made on this requisition as also the several others therein referred to, in Gold or Silver, or Bills emitted by any of the States whatever in Pursuance of the resolutions of the 18th of March 1780. This Assessment is not to be considered as the Proportion of any State, but, being paid, is to be adjusted & settled with Interest in Future upon equitable Principles in the Manner expressed in the Act. It is with reluctance that Congress are compelled to make this requisition, but the absolute Necessity of the Case will appear so obvious that we presume the respective States will yield a ready & cheerful Compliance therewith to the utmost of their Power. I have the Honor to be, &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 The resolves were adopted in the hope that the states could be induced to contribute their 1781 quotas in specie or the equivalent in new emission bills at the current exchange. To this end, Congress declared on March 16 that Continental debts would be revalued in such terms and recommended that the states adopt legal tender laws that would require acceptance of new bills (emitted pursuant to its resolves of March 18, 1780) “at their current value compared with gold or silver.” Simultaneously a committee of 13 was appointed to apportion the states’ quotas for a quarterly requisition of $1.5 million due on June 1. The committee's report was submitted and adopted on March 23./CC, 19:266-68, 298-99. These resolves were also an effort to turn a new leaf in congressional fiscal policy, stimulated by both the recent adoption of the Articles of Confederation and the continued deterioration of Continental finances. Thus Congress had declared on March 6 “That Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday in every week be assigned for the subject of finance,” and accordingly resolved itself into a committee of the whole on March 8, 9, 10, 13, 14, and 16 to consider several new fiscal proposals, including those adopted on the 16th. See JCC, 19:245, 250, 252-55, 258-59.
