March 24, 1781 83 into consideration on May 24, and after debate referred to the Board of War. See JCC, 16:345, 19:29, 237, 246, 20:531; and PCC, item 65, 1:468-71. It was Lovell's belated discovery that the resolve of the 7th had been recommitted on March 9 that inspired the postscript to this letter. 2 For the transmittal of a resolve authorizing Col. John Allan to raise a company of Continental Artillery at Machias, see Samuel Huntington to John Hancock, February 17, 1781. Samuel Huntington to Benjamin Huntington Sir Philadelphia March 24th, 1781 We have just received an Account from the Captain of a Vessel who belongs to Newport & is arrivd in this river. That the French & Brittish fleets which lately left Newport & Gardners Bay fell in with each other a little to the Southward of Cape Henry on the 16th instant when an action commenced between the van of the two fleets & lasted forty five minits. 1 The Captain says He saw one of the Brittish drove out of the line after which the firing ceased, & both fleets were maneuvring, the French being to windward when the Informant left them, & Sailed for this place, this report leaves us Still in anxious Suspence. During the action he lay at about three miles distant from the fleets, having Sailed from Newport under convoy of the French. We have no Intelligence from the Southern Army later than you will find in the public papers. The Brittish Manifesto against the Dutch with the Sudden & violent proceedings against their Shipping & property must have reached you before this comes to hand. This Event must produce Some Important Change in the affairs of Europe, time will discover its Effect. I am Sir with Esteem & Respect your Humble Servt, Sami. Huntington RC (NRom: Bright Collection). 1 The French fleet from Rhode Island, commanded by the chevalier Destouches, and the British fleet, commanded by Adm. Marriot Arbuthnot, clashed indecisively off Cape Henry, Va., on March 16. The fleets broke off action after the French gained a clear advantage, damaging several British ships in the battle. William M. James, The British Navy in Adversity (London: Longmans, Green & Co. Ltd., 1926), pp. 270-75. Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia March 24. 1781 I have been honored with your Excellency’s two Letters of the 8th Instant with the several Papers to which they refer. 1 The Limitation of the Act impowering Congress to levy a Duty &c to three Years
