March 24, 1781 89 Vesting the United States with Power to Collect certain Dutys, 2 so as that it Shall comport with the former Recommendation of Congress on that Head. The Reasons for this Recommendation are clearly Stated in the Act of Congress. The Non Complyance of the State in the Manner recommended gave some Surprize, as Congress had been full in the Opinion Not only with Regard to the Necessity but the Justice and Utility of the Measure, but supposed that our State would have a clear Interest in supporting it, or their Consumption of Foraign Articles much exceeded their Imports—And that the Dutys if they were not collected for a general Benefit, would (or they had in this State began to be) levied for a local advantage, which would operate most unjustly, or the Consumers must pay the Tax, and consequently if they lived in a different State would be charged with Taxes, for local, and partial Purposes for which they would not derive the least Benifit, and would not withstanding the Payment of those Taxes be charged with their full Quota of Debt to the united States. That this was a Circumstance which when well Understood by the States would produce severe altercations if not timely prevented. It is true the Act of Congress does not propose that the States Should have the exclusive Right to regulate this Affair which perhaps it might have been well if it had provided for. But probably no State will Enhance that Duty for themselves. It was Observed likewise that The Convention who Met at Hartford had recom mended the Measure. And that Connecticut had Commissioners in that Convention. And that the State had not Signified their Desap probation of what had been done by them. The Assembly of this State are not sitting, it is said that they will Adopt the Measure— which so farr as I have heard is well approved of in this Place. Your Excellency will likewise receive a Recommendation, that the States collect in Quaterly Payments Six Millions of Dollars in Specie or the New Emission beginning the first of June. I shall make no other observation upon this Measure than that it will be obvious that the Portion Assigned to Connecticut is too high compared with Massachusetts and some other States. In this Congress have gov erned themselves by former Precedents, except by lessening the Quotas of N York and N Carolina and placing the Deficiency proportionably on the other States. In this Place I will Observe to your Excellency that We have but the least Reason to expect Money from Abroad. This has been So clearly communicated that We must depend upon it. The Commissary Genl, of Purchases Complains that by Reason of the Scanty Supplys of fresh Provisions the Army are fed with that which is Salted, in great Measure. This Circumstance will be severely felt the next Summer unless rectified as We are officially Acquainted that a Cooperation against The Enemy is designed. The Commissary also says that there is a most unreasonable Deficiency between the
