90 March 24, 1781 Beeff charged the Publick and what is delivered to the Army. This Accusation is general. The Rate of Exchange here is 130 Dollars old Money for one in specie. This Occasions Vast Quantitys to be sent on to the Eastward. And indeed the People from thence are here buying the old Money, as the Exchange is So much lower there than here. I mention this Circumstance as I suppose that a Depredation at the Eastward may be expected soon to take Place. This old Money is continually undulating from one Part of the Continent to the Other, And productive of all the Mischief which can Attend a fluctuating Medium, But I will make no Observations but State Facts, upon which your Excellency is the best Able to judge with Regard to what Measures May be the most proper to be adopted. We have no News from N Carolina but what your Excellency will See in the Papers. There is an Acco. which is probably true that the Two Fleets from the Eastward had an Ingagment On the 16t off the Capes of Virginia. The Capt of the Brig who brings this Intelligence left the Fleets in the Action—he says that the French were at the Windward, that but one of the English Ships supposed to be the Admirals had engaged, that as he was Attacked by three or four French Ships She was drove out of the Line. We must Wait to hear the Result of this affair. I Wrote to Mr Ellsworth some time ago that it was Necessary for me to Return home early in April. 3 He has given me no Reason to believe that either he or Mr Law would be here by that Time. I hope that the Assembly have Appointed New Members in the Room of the late Mr. Hosmore and Col Adams resigned. Mr Huntington and Mr Root I suppose will tarry here till the latter End of next month Altho Mr Root talks as if he Should Return a little earlier yet I think he will tarry till that Time. I am with the highest Esteem and Regard, your Excellency’s Most Obedient Servant, Oliver Wolcott RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 Wolcott’s “Account” of the Connecticut constitution was included in the compila tion printed by direction of Congress’ resolution of December 29, 1780—The Constitutions of the Several Independent States of America..., for which see James Madison to Thomas Jefferson, May 5, 1781, note 1. See also Wolcott to Trumbull, January 9, 1781. 2 See Samuel Huntington’s first letter to Trumbull, this date, note 2. 3 This was undoubtedly the following undated and damaged letter to Oliver Ellsworth that Edmund C. Burnett printed under the date March 24? 1781 (Burnett, Letters, 6:35-36), from the original manuscript in the Sprague Collection at the Congregational Library (London) now on deposit at Dr. Williams’s Library (London). “I wrote to [you sometime ago] informing you that I [planned to return] Home early in the Spring, [and I believe] that 1 mentioned to you the first of April. But wheither my Letters have been reed, by you I am not able to Say. Mr. Huntington and Mr. Root will probably continue here till the latter end of April, at which Time they will Return. Whiether the State has supplied the Vacancies made in the
