94 March 27, 1781 men will constantly exercise that Right which the meanest Citizen is intitled to, & which is particularly secured to them by our happy Constitution, of inquiring freely but decently into the Conduct of the publick Servants. The very Being of the Common wealth may depend upon it. I will venture to appeal to the Experience of ancient Republicks to evince the Necessity of it; and it is never more necessary than in the Infancy of a Common wealth, & when the People have chosen honest Men to conduct their Affairs. For, Whatever is done at a Time nearly cotemporary with the Consti tution, will be construed as the best Exposition of it, and a mistaken Principle of a virtuous Ruler, whose publick Conduct is generally good and always supposd to be honestly intended, carries with it an Authority scarcely to be resisted, and Precedents are thus formed, which may be dangerous—perhaps fatal. FC (NN: Adams Papers). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. Endorsed by Adams: “The foregoing was sent to Mr. Edes by the Post Mar 27.” 1 The following essay appeared in Benjamin Edes’ Boston Gazette on April 16, 1781. 2 Adams was himself elected a senator for Suffolk County. See Adams to the Public, March 13, 1781, note 1. 3 Gustavus Vasa (1496-1560) was elected king of Sweden in 1523. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston Dear Sir, Philada. 27th March 1781 It is a long time since I have been favourd with a Line from you. It is more than probable that our Communications on both sides miscarry, Indeed I have had so little, which coud afford pleasure, to transmit, and I think it the worst of All Employments to vex my Friends who are happy enough to retire from this anxious Theatre with Incidents which may depress their Spirits without being of publick Advantage. All our Evills may be resolved into the Want of money which seems to pervade every State, at least none of them have made Exertions to remove the Complaint. To keep the general Treasury exhausted while the Country abounds with plenty and there is a high market for every sort of produce, and many of the States enjoy uninterrupted Tranquillity: cannot be accounted for on any principle which does Honour to our Patriotism or publick Spirit. Where this backwardness is avoidable it ought to be reprobated; for there seems no doubt but with a very moderate Share of Vigour the Enemies of this Country will be expelled in a single Campaign. Every thing practicable here has been done for maintaining the Southern States in a spirited opposition against Cornwallis & Ar nold. I am convinced that if the Pensylvania Line instead of revolting for want a little money had marched to Join Greene the British Powers in the Carolinas & Georgia must have been totally
