104 March 28, 1781 however be of Opinion with this Officer but think that the Enemy will either push our Army back, or that General Greene will retreat to a greater Distance to restore his Army to a Condition for another Action. Cornwallis is still near 200 Miles from any Part of the Seaboard, and if General Greene can keep a near Countenance upon him he may still be hurt considerably, and pared away before he gets off, if indeed he shall chuse to retire farther. The Action between the Fleets is important only in its Conse quences, our Disappointment and the British Fleet getting into Hampton-road. Both Fleets arrived off the Capes of Virginia nearly at the same Time, the French rather before, but not long enough to get fairly into the Bay and prepare for debarking the Men. They were under the Necessity of fighting, though neither Side appears to have been very desirous of beginning or earnest in continuing the Action. Nothing decisive has taken Place on either Side; both had some Ships a little disabled. In the French Fleet the Conquerant was shot in the Rudder and the Ardent in her Masts and Yards so far to be in an unfavourable Situation for fighting. Some other Ships suffered a little in their Rigging. The French have returned to Rhode-Island to refit. One of their Frigates is unfortunately left in Cheeseapeak; the Hermion, Capt de la Touche, is arrived at Chester with Dispatches for the Minister. This sadly deranges our Plans, but however we will hope for our Day. No late News from Europe. As I expect to be at Trenton in a Day or two, shall beg your further attention to what I mentioned respecting the Dutch. Your Ideas are certainly right. I have the Honour to be, Your Excellency’s obedt Servant. W C Houston RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). Committee of Congress to the Chevalier de La Luzerne March 29th. 1781 The Committee recollect your Excellency’s Communication that his most Christian Majesty’s Minister of Finance had obtained or Acquired from the Minister Plenipotentiary of these States a letter of Credit on Congress for Provisions to the amount of four hundred thousand Dollars. 1 They request your Excellency to inform them whether his Majesty’s Ministers rely on the letter of Credit alluded to, as a Contract absolutely concluded and which Congress are in all Events bound to ratify and perform? {If they Consider it in this light The Committee have no doubt that Congress will employ every means in their
