March 29, 1781 105 power for fulfilling it, and to prevent disappointment, however difficult or injurious it might prove to their peculiar Circumstances and Arrange ments). 2 FC (DNA: PCC, item 96). In the hand ofThomas Burke, and endorsed by him: “Copy of Letter to the Minister of France, March 29th, 1781.” 1 For this reference to a letter of credit obtained by Jacques Necker, French director general of finances, from Benjamin Franklin for the delivery of $400,000 worth of Provisions to the French forces in America, see JCC, 19:308-11; and Committee of Congress to Jean Holker, March 23, 1781, note. This committee, consisting of Samuel Adams, Thomas Burke, John Hanson, Joseph Jones, Thomas McKean, and James Madison, had been appointed on March 24 to respond to a memorial from La Luzerne requesting a conference to discuss Franklin’s proposal for establishing a line of credit in France in return for the delivery of provisions to French agents in America. In addition to this draft letter to La Luzerne, a translation of his response to the committee and three pages of “Notes from the Minister of France on a Conference" on the “Subsistance de l’Armee,” are also located in PCC, item 96, fols. 265-72. 2 The surviving documents on this subject suggest that congressional support for this proposal was never in doubt, and that once Franklin offered the delivery of provisions to French forces in America in return for a line of credit of $400,000 he could draw upon in Paris, only the means for implementing the plan remained for serious discussion. The committee’s report on La Luzerne’s March 24 memorial recommended that the United States “take every measure in their power” to implement the scheme, and Congress adopted the committee’s recommendation on April 11, for which see JCC, 19:370-73; and Samuel Huntington to La Luzerne, April 15, 1781. Nicholas Van Dyke to Thomas Rodney Dr. Sir, 29 Mar 1781 I presume in this you have received the Paper Intelligence; but as that is not authentic nor so particular as the Account from the Southard by Governor Jefferson’s Letter to Congress Received on Wednesday last, I do my self the Honor to favor you therewith. 1 The Governor Writes that on the 15th Inst, about a Mile and a Half from Guilford Court House Green & Cornwallis had a Battle, which lasted one Hour & a Quarter, that Green retreated a Mile & a Halfin good Order, having lost two Peices of Cannon and about 300 killed and wounded, Cornwallis lost between 500 & 700 killed and wounded, that General Green determined to renew the Attaque the Next Morning, but the Weather prevented. The Enemy were 2500, & our Troops including Militia or Mostly so 4000, our Men &c behaved well, were in high Spirits & anxious for another Engage ment, this Account the Governor had from an Officer who was in the Action. This I call a very good Account, for if Green is so strong as to Attac the Enemy, he only has to keep up the Ball awhile and he must
