106 March 29, 1781 effectually Ruin his Lordship, two more such Victories would probably Burgoine him & his Veterans. All the Accounts we have of an Action between the Fleets have been published which I dare say you have seen, and I think it may be said, (all things Considered) that the French Arms have gained Reputation. I would just Mention to you that Monday come a Week Mr. McKean has to attend a Court in this City and Tuesday Week our Supreme Court begins, so that Delaware will be unrepresented in Congress. Newhampshire, Newyork & Rhode Island are now in the same situation. I shall be detained about 10 Days and I wish you if possible to order Matters so as to be here on Sunday come a Week, for you know that your Attendance (although you alone cannot give the Vote of the State) is Necessary & may be very useful. Mr. McKean [h]as attended every Day since I came up & seems in good Health. Please present my Complimts. to Mrs. Rodney, and believe me to be, yr. Most obdt. Nichs. Van Dyke RC (CtY: Franklin Papers). 1 See Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, March 27, 1781, note. James Duane to Mary Duane Philad. 30t March 1781 This will be handed to my dearest Polly by Col. H.B. Livingston. How they will get on I know not as the roads even here are unfit for a Carriage. I have orderd a Phaeton to be made for Brother Walter which is to be finished in a fortnight. In this our Daughter will have a Seat and probably Sister Robert C. as we all propose coming together. I include Brother Harry. I hope by the latter End of April or the beginning of May your Roads will be tolerable. I wish to hear when you favour me with a Line. For my own part as I prefer a Horse it is of no Consequence; but the Carriage must be attended to. We have nothing from the Southward since I wrote to you last; except that Cornwallis lost 800 killed besides the wounded in his late battle with our Army under General Greene & that the next morning he proceded to Court house leaving all his dead unburied altho’ General Ohara was among the number. We have yet no further particulars except that our Regulars as well as militia behaved with uncommon Spirit and that Cols. Washington & Lee of the Cavalry have acquired great Glory. The opinion is as strong as ever that Lord Cornwallis and his Army must fall into our hands.
