April 1, 1781 111 *omitted in my former List 3 plic Sep 9 1 Orig Sep 25 J 2 plic Sep 25 ] f Novr. 28^ [Dec 19 J Sepr. 25 1 Oct 15 J Deer 11 Feb. 12 March 26 RC (NNC: Jay Papers). 1 See Lovell to Samuel Holten, March 27, 1781, note 1. 2 With this letter, Lovell also sent the copies of his letters to Jay of February 20 and March 9 printed above. His enclosure consists of a list of letters received from Jay and Carmichael that he had originally enclosed in the February 20 letter, to which he added two Carmichael letters received on March 26 and two “omitted in my former List.” Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton Dear Sir, Philada. April 1st. 1781. I yesterday was favoured with your Letter but know not when or from whence wrote as it was without date. The Night before last we reed an Official Acct, of Genl Greens engagement with Cornwallis on the 15th March; it differs but little from the Accts before reed. The Victory was on the Side of Cornwallis as Genl. Green retired from the field with near 300 killed & wounded, & 4 field pieces lost, and near 900 Militia & some Continentals mising who mostly run away in the beginning of the Action—his order of battle was three lines—the North Carolina Militia composed the first in front with the field pieces, most of those run away without firing a gun throwing away their Arms, some few of them fired once some twice but none more; of those about 550 are missing. The Virginia Militia principally composed the Second line, they made some short stand, of these about 260 are missing but not Supposed to be taken. The third line was Continentals, the engage ment was very severe and Obstinate and the Victory dearly pur chased owing wholly to Superiour Dicipline. One or two more such Victories would ruin his Lordship as he must be greatly encumbered with his wounded, ours were brought of. Cornwallis was 160 Miles from Cambden & near that distance from Wilmington the nearer Seaport—my greatest fears are that the detachments from New York are gone to his relief, and may join him before Genl. Green may be in Condition to renew the fight, tho’ in Case Cornwallis attempts to move he will meet probably with a constant Anoyance from our Troops, who, it is said are in high Spirits and wish for another engagemt.
