114 April 2, 1781 Samuel Johnston to James Iredell Dear Sir. Philadelphia, April 2nd, 1781. I have just had the pleasure of receiving your letters of the 11th and 17th, and one from Mr. Smith, and another from my brother. I wrote to them both last week. 1 You will, before this reaches you, have received an account of the action between the two fleets off the Capes of Virginia. I have seen the New York account, which is rather more in favor of the French than their own. Upon the whole the French gained more honor than profit in that conflict, as they miscarried in their principal object, that of destroying the party at Portsmouth, who have since been reinforced, and I fear will be very troublesome. We have reason to expect essential reinforcement from our ally; I am not at liberty to be more particular. 2 There are many things I would wish to say as well regarding the public as my private affairs, but the fear of my letters miscarrying withholds me. I therefore submit every thing to your discretion. We have very speedy intelligence here of every interesting motion of the armies to the westward. I. Buchanan sent me the New York papers as late as the 29th ult.; they contain nothing interesting, nor have we any late advices from Europe. My brother writes me of his indisposition, which gives me very great concern. I hope to be in as good health as ever in a few weeks of warm weather. Remember me affectionately to my sister, and the children, and in general to all our friends; and believe me ever, with the most sincere friendship and esteem, Dear sir, Your affectionate brother, Sam. Johnston. MS not found; reprinted from McRee, Iredell, 1:498. 1 Not found. 2 Johnston is undoubtedly referring to information contained in the French minister’s March 24 memorial to Congress, for which see JCC, 19:308-10. Alexander McDougall to John Laurance Phia April 2d 1781. Reports that he will prod the Board of War into acting on Laurance’s request for additional “provission for the Deputies in your line.” 1 Explains that Congress has rejected his conditions for acceptance of the post of Secretary of Marine: “Major McDougall inclosed to you a Copy of my Letter to Congress on the new appointment. The Committee appointed to confer with me made a full and ample report to my Satisfaction. But Congress instead of taking up the report, have passed an independant act of which I send you a Copy. 2 It is flattering, but the motives of it I shall inform you of, when I have the pleasure of Seeing you, which I hope will be three weeks hence.”
