126 April 3, 1781 on the table to Strike out the Interest altogether. Whether this will pass I know not 1 —what the effect will be upon the money if it does your Excellency will Judge, the old money Continues to depreci ate—& reams of it are Carried from here to the Eastward to exchange. Taxes are Collected here but indifferently. The legisla ture of this State I am told will Comply with the requisition of Congress respecting Imposts & Duties. I expect to Set from here in a week or ten days. Genl Woolcot is lame by means of a Strain in his leg has not been able to attend Congress for Some days but is in a good way to recover. The Second Division of the French fleet is to be expected early this Spring. With every Sentiment of respect I have the honor to be your Excellencys most most obedt & most humble Servt, Jesse Root P.S. I inclose a bill for a law in this State which the assembly are very unanimous in & is to pass today. 2 RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 The next day, April 4, Congress resolved that “no interest be computed on the money emitted pursuant to the act of the 18 March, 1780, at the time of issuing the same from the loan offices, or when any officers of the United States shall make payments therewith for supplies, or in discharge of public debts.” JCC, 19:352. 2 That is, a bill to impower Congress to collect an impost. See Oliver Wolcott to Samuel Lyman, this date. See also Samuel Huntington’s first letter to Trumbull of March 24, 1781, note 2. Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson Sr. Philadelphia April 3d 1771[z.e. 1781] We have been favord with Your Excellencys enclosing a State of the affair between Mr. Nathan and the Commonwealth of Virginia which we are endeavoring to put in train for a decision on the Principles you have been pleased to direct, the event of which yr. Excellency shall be informd of as soon as tis decided. 1 The Unfortu nate consequences which have attended the Naval engagement of Chesapeake on the 16th Ultimo, we feel with unspeakeable regret, as they have snatchd from us the pleasing prospects we had cherished for some time past, of frustrating the Sanguine project of the Enemy (of subjugating most of the Southern States this Cam paign) and thrown our Country into a Situation which must require her utmost exertions, with all the aid that can be sent her to extricate her from. This we shall leave no means unessayed to effect, on our parts. The Same unhappy event, has deprived us of the immediate Use of the Arms and Stores, which were to have gone from Rhode Island (the Cargoe of the Comite) on board a french frigate, but we have the Satisfaction to Inform yr. Excellency that they are safe arrived at
