April 5, 1781 133 5 Huntington also sent an emergency appeal this day to New Jersey and Pennsylva nia for flour for the troops garrisoning West Point “and its dependencies.” With his letters to Gov. William Livingston and Pres. Joseph Reed, Huntington enclosed a report from the Board of War and a letter from Charles Stewart, commissary general of issues, explaining that the provisions on hand at West Point would be exhausted in ten days and that at the moment New York was not able to furnish the flour needed. See JCC, 19:345-46; and PCC, item 15, fol. 261, item 148, 1:339-46. John Sullivan to George Washington Dear General Philadelphia April 5th 1781 I was on the Evening of the 3d honored with your Excellencys favor of the 31 Ulto. 1 and have the pleasure of Inclosing to your Excellency Copy of an Act of congress of yesterday respecting the Conduct of our allies. 2 I am Convinced that the Bravery of Monsr Des Touch & the officers and men under his Command has convinced the British that with Equal numbers the French are at Least Equal to them. I Lament our having failed in the object yet the Action will have some agreable consequences; and the manner in which it was conducted by Monsr Des Touch deserves Every Eulogium. I am also honored with your Excellencys favor of the 24th ulto. & Shall be happy in receiving your Excellencys Sentiments upon the whole report which I had the honor to inclose you 3 & I perswade myself that Congress will agree with your wishes upon the Subject. I have the honor to be with the Most perfect Esteem Dear General Your Excellencys most obedient Servant, Jno Sullivan RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:400n.2. 2 See Samuel Huntington to the chevalier Destouches, April 6, 1781. 3 Neither Washington’s March 24 letter nor one of Sullivan to him enclosing “the whole report” (for which see Committee of Congress to Washington, March 9, 1781) has been found. John Witherspoon to William Livingston Sir Philadelphia April 5, 1781 Last Night late one Dr Newil who lives in Shrewsbury came here with a Letter to me from Mr John Imlay recommending him as a Person firmly attached to the American Cause and one very fit to obtain Intelligence telling me at the same Time that he then had some Intelligence from New York worthy of the Attention of Congress. The Intelligence he brought was that another Expedition was preparing at N. York not yet quite ready but that it was Supposed Genl Clinton was to go upon the Head of it himself, that
