134 April 5, 1781 its Object was Delaware Bay and that they intended to take Post at Newcastle. As our Express is to go off this Morning to pass through Princeton I thought it best to give Your Excellency this Notice. I communicated it last Night to the President of Congress & shall this Morning to the President of this State but not to any other till we see whether other concurring Intelligence will give it full Credit. The same Person says the Mail was taken in the Clove by Moody & one other Man & carried to New York on Saturday where they received 40 Guineas each before it was opened. Nothing had transpired as to the Contents of the Mail. By the last Accounts from the Southward the English Fleet which left Lynhaven Bay on the 24 of last Month & went out at the Capes returned again next Day with several Transports supposed to be with Troops from N. York. I expect to be at Princeton Saturday Night or Sabbath Morning before Sermon. I am Your Excellencys most obedt, humble Servant, Jno Witherspoon RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). Connecticut Delegates’ Memorial Philadelphia, April 6th 1781 The Delegates from Connecticut 1 beg leave to Represent to Congress That the Schooner Spy Capt Niles Master was dispatched to France by his Excellency the Governor of Connecticutt at the request of the Committee for foreign affairs pursuant to order of Congress to carry the Ratification of the Treaty between the United States & France. That Said Schooner arrived with Said Ratification & duly deliverd the Same & on her return laden with Articles for the united States by order of the Honbl. B. Franklin Esqr. was Capturd & Carried to Great Brittain. That the Said Delegates have long Since recvd the accounts of the said Schooner & the Expense of her voyage, with a letter from the Govr of Connecticutt Requesting the Same may be adjusted & paid; which hath not yet been done. Whereupon they request that Said Accounts may be Settled; & if the State of the Treasury will not Admit of Immediate payment, that the accounts may be liquidated in Specie value & placed to the Credit of the State of Connecticutt to bear an Interest at the rate of Six per Cent per Annum from the time the Same became due until paid. 2 MS (DNA: PCC, item 66). In the hand of Samuel Huntington.
