April 6, 1781 135 1 Jesse Root and Oliver Wolcott were the Connecticut delegates attending Congress with Huntington at this time. 2 This “representation” from the Connecticut delegates was referred this day to the Board of Treasury, which upon investigation concluded that Capt. Robert Niles’ claims were excessive and accordingly recommended that they “be referred to the commissioners of accounts at Hartford in Connecticut, for settlement,” a recommen dation Congress endorsed on June 21, 1781. See JCC, 19:357, 20:684-86. For the Spy’s delivery of the ratified Franco-American treaties to France, see these Leiters, 9:714-15. Samuel Huntington to the Chevalier Destouches Sir, Philada April 6. 1781 I have the Pleasure of transmitting you the enclosed Resolve, expressing the Sentiments of the United States in Congress assem bled respecting the Zeal & Vigilance which the Commanders of the Army & Fleet sent by his most Christian Majesty for the Succour of his Allies have manifested on all Occasions to fulfil the Generous Intentions of their Soverign and the Expectations of these States. I am particularly directed to present the Thanks of Congress to you Sir, and the Officers & Men under your Command for the Bravery, Firmness and good Conduct displayed in the late Enter prize against the Enemy at Portsmouth and the arduous Contest so gallantly & advantageously maintained in the Engagement on the 16th of March last off the Capes of Virginia against a superior British Fleet. 1 I have the Honor to be &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 For this April 4 congressional vote of thanks to Destouches, who had assumed command of the French fleet at Rhode Island upon the death of Admiral de Ternay in December, see JCC, 19:348-50. Huntington also sent a copy of this resolve this day to the commander of the French army in America, the comte de Rochambeau, and to George Washington; and on April 10 to the chevalier de La Luzerne. See PCC, item 15, fols. 261-62, 265-66. Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia April 6. 1781 On Saturday the last of March the eastern Mail was taken in the Clove & carried into New York. We know not of what Importance the Despatches might be, but have pretty direct Information that two Men which took the Mail received eighty Guineas for their reward on delivering it in New York. The enclosed Paper will give your Excellency the latest Intelli gence we have received from General Greene. 1
