138 April 8, 1781 during the summer, unless the arrival of the second division of the French, which we hourly expect, should give us the superiority at sea. In other respects our prospects are far from being flattering. You will easily judge that great delay in the deliberative councils of so numerous a body as Congress must necessarily take place; add to this, that the frequent change of the members does in almost every instance break upon the best digested systems, and renders ineffi cient the best concerted measures. Much time is too often spent in debate, and there is no man of sufficient credit or influence to take the lead, or give a tone to the business. Another circumstance which prevents Congress from taking its measures with a greater degree of confidence and decision is, the inattention which the States pay to the measures recommended by that body. I am fully satisfied that if the States would implicitly comply with every requisition of Congress, even when the propriety of the measure was not evidently apparent, it would be attended by the most salutary consequences, as there is not the least reason to doubt but Congress, both as a body and individually, are disposed to do what is right, and appear to me in almost every instance that has fallen within my observation to be actuated by the most virtuous and disinterested motives. In a few, very few instances, I have suspected individuals to be influenced by local or personal considerations, and this less often than might be naturally expected in so large a body. Never was a poor fly more completely entangled in a cobweb than Congress in their paper currency. It is the daily subject of conversa tion in that body; but our situation is so very intricate and delicate that I have as yet heard no proposal that is not subject to numberless objections. Dr. Burke, who is to be the bearer of this, has just called to tell me he is not to leave this for some days. 1 MS not found; reprinted from McRee, Iredell, 1:500-501. 1 For the continuation of this letter, see Johnston to Iredell, April 12, 1781. Samuel Huntington to Certain States Sir, Philadelphia April 9th. 1781. Your Excellency will receive enclosed an act of Congress of the 8th Instant recommending to the Executives of the States of Delaware, Maryland & Virginia respectively to take immediate measures for the removal of all public stores, and also all provisions & forage public & private which will not be necessary for the consumption of the Inhabitants on the Peninsula between the Chesapeak and Delaware Bays, to prevent such articles falling into the enemy’s hands. I should suppose it equally expedient to include valuable horses tho’ they are not mentioned in the Act. 1 This recommendation is in consequence of intelligence received
