April 10, 1781 139 from New York the substance of which is prefixed to the enclosed act, although it is presumed you will have received the intelligence before this comes to hand. As future events must determine with certainty the designs of the enemy, so future intelligence may influence the measures now recommended, yet it is to be hoped such precautions may be taken as will prevent any valuable supplies of any kind falling into the enemy’s hands should they attempt to execute their designs as reported. I have the honor to be, with great Respect, your Excellency’s most obedt. Servt. Sam. Huntington Presidt. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). Addressed: “To Governor Jefferson. N.B. The like to President Rodney [Delaware], Sc Mathew Tilghman Esquire [Maryland].” 1 The enclosed resolution, adopted during a rare Sunday session, endorsed a recommendation of the Board of War based upon recent intelligence that an enemy expedition was about to embark from New York for New Castle, Del., for which see /CC, 19:365-67; and Huntington to Washington, April 7, 1781. For this threat to the Delmarva peninsula and the steps taken to alert Maryland through the president of the state’s special eastern shore council, Matthew Tilghman, see also Huntington’s letters to Washington and to Tilghman of April 26 and 27, 1781. Samuel Huntington to Thomas Rodney and Nicholas Van Dyke Sir, Philada April 9. 1781 I am directed to request your Attendance in Congress as soon as possible. There are but eight States at this Time represented in Congress, a Circumstance by no Means proper in the present Situation of Affairs. 1 As Chief Justice McKean sets out this Day on the Circuit to be absent some Time, it is necessary that two Delegates from the Delaware State give their Attendance immediately. I have the Honor to be &c &c &c. S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). Addressed: “To The Honorable Thomas Rodney Esqr. N.B. The like to Mr. Vandyke.” 1 Huntington also wrote a similar letter this day to New Jersey delegate William Churchill Houston. PCC, item 15, fol. 265. Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sr. Philadelphia Api 10th. 1781 I receivd yours of the 6th with the money enclosd—& Shall loose no time in forwarding the wine. Col. Harrison has been in Town
