140 April 10, 1781 some days past sick—& proposes sending a light waggon down with his Baggage, if there is some I shall send a quarter cask of wine by that opportunity. What you mention of Capt Murray Shall be attended to. Nothing more of the embarkation at New York officially since the letters the President sent you. 1 The reinforcement arrived in Chessapeake were in 18 Transports, supposed to be under the Command of Genl. Philips. I am Dear Sr. with great regard & esteem, Yr hu Obt Sert, Dani Carroll [P.S.] Please to let Mr. Richard Lloyd & Mr. Carroll have the perusal of the New York papers I send—they are for Parson Gates from Mr Meade. I sent to Mr Carroll by the Express a paper contg Genl Greens last Letter & cannot [find] one to send you by this opportunity. RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 See Samuel Huntington to Washington, et al., April 7, and to Certain States, April 9, 1781. John Hanson to Philip Thomas Dear Doct. Philadelphia Api. 10th. 1781 I received yours yesterday by the post. Am glad to be informed of your safe Arrival At Annapolis where I hope you will stay as long as Janey finds Any advantage from being there. Change of Air And Exercise Sometimes have Surprising Effects And would fain flatter my Self that it will in the present instance. Janey and Tammys State of health and the distressed and perplexed Situation Mrs. Hanson is in left alone a prey to Melancholly and despair destroys my peace of mind and renders me truly Misserable. Should have left this place last week but since the ratification of the Confederation 9 States are required to make a Congress. 4 are unrepresented And my with drawing would leave a number insufficient to transact Business, which at this Critical Conjuncture would perhaps be thought unpardonalbe however I hope to get Away by Thursday next. Some absent Members are sent for 1 And one from Jersey is expected in today or tomorrow when that State will be represented. 1 hope you put yourself to no inconvenience in sending the money you inclosed. I could have done without it tho I have not received one farthing from the state since I have been here. What you have directed Shall be purchased. By the last of this month the second Division of the french may be Expd. I wish they were Arrived, it might be a means of withdrawing the British fleet And
