146 April 12, 1781 Which they expected—And that Congress had no other Means of paying them but by Taking and applying that Money. This was Warmly opposed because it was alledged that it Would Totally subvert the intention of the Resolution of the 18th of March beside that the Money in question being Issued by the Special authority of the respective State Congress Could not Take it Contrary To The Tennor of their Laws—after a Multitude of arguments on both Sides this plan Was Set aside—and another introduced. It was Alledged that the Assembly of Pensylvania had appointed a Committee to borrow as Much of this Money of Congress in The Loan office of that State as would pay their line & that they Would repay Congress again by the first of June, and by this Consent of that State Congress Might draw that 6 /ioth of the new Money and therefore it was Moved that Congress Should lend the State of Pensylvania four hundred thousand Dollars on the Condition of their paying it again by the first of June—to enable the State to Satisfy their Troops that they Might March immediately to the Southward and the necessaty of the Case Was Strongly urged to induce this. But it Was objected That this Would give Pensylvania an undue advantage of the Other States— and that there Could be no reliance on that States repaying the Money, or they Would have provided for This exigency before this Time as it was known To them so long ago—That Twenty eight Thousand pounds Would pay those Troops, therefore the Sum Mentioned Was More than necessary and indicated Some other applications—But that at any rate If Congress paid those Troops out of their Own Money, or Lent it To Pensylvania Which is the Same thing it Would Occasion a Mutiny in the other Troops Who had a right to expect as Much of Congress as those of Pensylvania &c. &c. &c. The Arguments on this Subject Took of the day and at last the plan Was rejected, & Two other plans offered by a Gent, from Virginia & one from Masichusats Was referred To a Committee of five. 3 It is to be lamented that Congress is So deficient in the abilities of Financing that No Member is capable of offering a System that is Worthy the Establishment of Congress None Whose Idea’s are at the Same Time both Simple & Systimatical enough for this purpose. Both the plans now offered are deficient in this respect. They are both Too Complex and incoherent To be admited—therefore will probably Occasion Much debate and no Effect. While our affairs related to Simple Constitutional questions only the Americans appeared great indeed because every Man Was naturaly raised up a midst the Most pure & Clear principles of Liberty that ever has been practiced or enjoyed by Society, But having paid very little or no Attention to the Study of useful knowlidge farther than was Neces sary To Conduct their Own Occupations, Now Their Matters has grown Complex and extensive they appear unable to Conduct
