April 12, 1781 147 Them in the best Manner, notwithstanding the advantages of Litrature, & the Sciences Which they have Made a rapid progress in And are not deficient on that Account. This has Confirmed me in what I always thought best, that is, that the Study of useful knowledge is of much greater advantage in the great Affairs of State as Well as in the Common business of life—and that a refined and even extensive knowledge in the Languages & Sciences is of very little use unless Connected With, and used as the Aid of useful knowledge. That is a right understanding of men & things, Their passions, dispositions, properties, qualities, and use—Considered both Simple & Compound—by practice and Experiment regulated by Theory as near as May be. MS (DLC: Rodney Family Papers). 1 Rodney had just returned to Philadelphia after a month in Delaware, which he explained immediately preceding this entry in the following terms: “The 10th of March I returned home Where I Stayed Seven or Eight days then Went down to Kent Where I Stayed Two Weeks on My own private affairs—returned home to Wilmington The last of March and Came again To Congress The Tenth of April!—When I found Congress in the Same imbarressed Situation With Their finances as When I left them. “Aprill The 11th This day I took My Seat in Congress again.” 2 This was Washington’s April 8 letter to President Huntington which was read in Congress this day. See JCC, 19:374; PCC, item 152, 10:67-70; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:429-31. ’This ambiguous passage undoubtedly should be punctuated to read: “Two other plans, offered by a Gent, from Virginia & one from Massichusats, was referred To a Committee of five”—as only two, not three plans, were apparently offered. Rodney further compounded the confusion by misidentifying the plan moved by Connecticut delegate Oliver Wolcott as one offered by a gentleman “from Massichusats.” See JCC, 19:376-81. John Sullivan to the Marquis de Barbe-Marbois Monsieur Philadelphie. Ie 12 d’avril 1781 J’ai lu hier au Soir, la Lettre qui a ete publiee par Mr. Rivington, Sous le nom du General Washington, je ne crois pas qu’elle a ete ecrit par Son Excellence, mais Si elle L’ a ete il n’y a rien qui puisse donner la moindre inquietude aux les Commandans de 1’arme et d’Escadre du Roi: il y a dit qu’il etoit tres malheureux que toute 1’Escadre francoise ne soit pas Sorti d’abord; avec les troupes de terre, au Lieu d’un vaissau de Ligne et deux fregattes (comme il L’Avoit propose) parceque si cela etoit fait dans ce terns la qu’il falloit que Mr Arnold avec son Anne ait ete prise mais que cette petite flotte ne pouvoit rien faire sans les troupes de terre. Il arrive journellement Monsieur que les plus grands Militaire pensent bien differement Sur le Meme objet et La reussite n’est pas toujour la miellure preuve de la Sagesse de leur mesures neamenoins le
