April 14, 1781 151 Otherwise for the Certain payment of both interest And principle agreable to the Tener of Such Bills—And at the Same Time provide a fund for Carrying on the War by Laying a Land Tax of one penny per Acre or More if necessary for repayin any Sum (with a anual interest) that they May have Occasion to borrow for that purpose— The principle to be paid in 7, 10, or 15 years &c. MS (DLC: Rodney Family Papers). 1 On the page after this entry, Rodney inserted the following brief fiscal essay, setting it off by indenting the entire opening paragraph. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia April 14. 1781 Your Excellency will recieve enclosed, a resolve of Congress of the 13th Instant, relative to the Mode adopted to pay the new Levies, recommending it to the several States to make Payment. 1 And also directing the future Application of Claimants for Settlement of Accounts, for Payment of liquidated Accounts, for Rank, Discharges, Losses &c, or for resignation. The former Part of this resolve respecting the new Levies, I presume is intended for those only who served the last Campaign, and if any of them have received partial Payments from their regimental Paymasters, which is probable as I am informed by the Paymaster General, Care should be taken to transmit the same to the respective States. I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, Your Excel lency’s most obedient Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 According to Secretary Thomson’s endorsement, the Board of War report containing this recommendation was read in Congress on January 17, although for reasons unknown it was not adopted until April 13. See JCC, 19:384; and PCC, item 147, 6:93-96. For the transmittal of the enclosed resolve to the states, see Huntington to the States, April 15, 1781. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia April 14. 1781 Your Excellency’s Letters of the 24th & 31st Ulto the 3d & 4th Instant, with the Despatches to which they refer have been re ceived. 1 You will observe by the enclosed Resolve it is the Pleasure of Congress that you employ an additional confidential Secretary, and as many Writers as you shall judge proper to arrange & register the
