154 April 15, 1781 William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir Philada. 15 April 1781 There is Nothing new at this Time either from Europe or from the Southward, except what is contained in the Gazette extraordi nary of the 10 inst from New York, 1 which I doubt not, you have seen. What is said respecting the Portuguese war, and the Assistance which Russia has agreed to give to Great-Britain, may be true because it is not naturally impossible, but it is not supported either by Fact or Probability which has come to my Knowledge. I beg Leave to urge to Your Excellency the immediate and evident Necessity of altering the Exchange of the Continental Currency. I do not think we ought to wait for Pennsylvania, especially when they appear to be pursuing a line of Conduct so generally disapproved, and, as far as I can judge, I must beg Leave to add, not easily reconcileable to Fairness and Honesty, and the Intentions of those who vested the Power. The Stationary Condition of the legal Exchange, while the popular or mercantile is moving foward, must inevitably ruin the State—or lawful Money, because it will be utterly impossible to bring it back again to the value from which it depreciates. Whatever Reasons induced the fixing it at 75 in November last now certainly require it should be fixed above 100. If suffering it to stand will hurt the new Money, and altering it will probably, I think it will absolutely, help it, what Justification can be given for not altering it? That it will take Money out of the State is a Mistake. Everyone knows that though the legal Exchange here is 75 no Man deals at less than 140. I am with great Respect, your Excellency’s obedt Servant. W C Houston RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). 1 That is, James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette. Samuel Huntington to Nathanael Greene Sir, Philada April 15. 1781 Your several Letters of the 28th February, 10th, 16th & 23d of March with the Papers to which they severally refer have been received; also your Letter of the 14th of January was received the 22d of March by Doctor Brownson. 1 I have the Honor of transmitting you the enclosed Act of Congress of the 22d of March, containing aditional regulations for conducting the medical Department & military Hospitals. 2 Claypoole’s Paper which is enclosed, contains the most authentic
