158 April 16, 1781 case of refusal by operations on their foreign trade. There is a collateral reason which interests the States who are feeble in maritime resources in such a plan. If a naval armament was considered as the proper instrument of general Government, it would be both preserved in a respectable State in time of peace, and it would be an object to mann it with Citizens taken in due proportion from every State. A Navy so formed and under the orders of the general Council of the States, would not only be a guard against aggressions & insults from abroad; but without it what is to protect the Southern States for many years to come against the insults & aggressions of their N. Brethren. I am Dear [Sir] Yr. Sincere friend & obt. servt. J. Madison Junr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:71-72. 1 For the enclosed report on proposals for strengthening the Articles of Confedera tion, see JCC, 20:469-71; Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:17-19; and James M. Varnum to William Greene, March 16, 1781, note 3. Coincidentally, Virginia delegate Joseph Jones, who was about to set out for Philadelphia at this time, was similarly preoccupied with the inadequacy of the powers granted to Congress under the confederation, and accordingly set about consulting key Virginia leaders on a remedy for the perceived defects. The following undated draft letter, in Jones’ hand and endorsed by him “Copy letter to Pendleton, Wythe, Jefferson,” is in the Madison Papers, DLC, although there is nothing to indicate just when or how Madison came into possession of the document. “Maryland having subscribed the Articles of Confederation the alliance of the States is now compleat and in future Congress are to be governed by those Rules. If the Powers granted to the Representative Body of the States by these Articles are inadequate to the purposes of carrying on a vigorous War and of this all the States from experience are able to judge—would it not be wise while common danger presses us together and the States see and feel the necessity of enlarging the powers of Congress for the purposes of War, that the defects of the Articles in this respect be timely considered and remedied. Danger may spring from delay—good will result from a timely application of remedy. The present temper of the States is friendly to the establishment of a lasting Union. The moment shod be improved—if suffered to pass away it may never return; and after gloriously and successfully contending agt. the usurpations of Britain we may fall a prey to our own follies and disputes. I am aware of the danger of granting great powers and of the reluctance of the States to yield them and attribute the present disposition to give Congress more competent powers to a conviction from experience that it is for the common good to do so. In the course of business the defects of the Confederation will no doubt appear and Congress will point them out to the States and propose the necessary alterations for their concurrence. One, and of the first importance hath already become a question, that is, the Power of compeling the States to comply with the requisitions for men and money agreeably to their respective quotas. The States appear to have yielded to Congress the right of ascertaining the Sum necessary for the public expence & oblige themselves to furnish their proportions agreeably to the mode prescribed. They also yield the right of fixing the quotas of Men for the common defence wch. shall be binding but no mode is stated how a disobedient or delinquent State is to be compelled to furnish the one or the other and for want of this controuling power in Congress over the States when refractory war cannot be prosecuted with vigor and the safety of the whole endangered besides the hardship and injustice to those that comply and the prolongation of the War by such delinquencies. If in surrendering the right of fixing the proportions the Power of compelling obedience is implied, how
