April 16, 1781 159 or by what mode ought the refractory to be punished—by shutting the Ports—by marching an armed Force into the State—by deprivation of Privileges or what other mode? These are nice and delicate questions but are necessarily involved in the inquiry and I mention them with freedom in hopes you will as freely give me your Sentiments upon them. I feel myself more particularly impelled to do this not only from you but a few others of my acquaintance of whose abilities and Judgments I wish to avail myself upon this and similar occasions, because by a resolution of our Legislature of the 24th of Deer. 1779 the point of enforcing obedience to requisitions seems to have been agitated and censured. It would give me concern shod it be thought of me that I am desirous of enlarging the Powers of Congress unnecessarily as I declare to God my only aim is the general good and wch. in time of War does appear to me to be involved in the exercise of this or some controuling Power adequate to drawing out in due proportion the abilities and resources of the States without which power in Congress and a more punctual compliance on the part of the States than has been manifested for some time past the War cannot be prosecuted to advantage and while some States exposed to danger strain every nerve others removed from danger and at ease are remiss and negligent, whereas all should make the proper exertions and furnish their proportions whether immediately or remotely affected and wch. can alone give energy to military operations. Perhaps a Knowledge that this power was lodged in Congress might be the means to prevent its ever being exercised and the more readily induce obedience. Indeed if Congress was unques tionably poss[ess]ed of the Power nothing shod, induce the display of it but obstinate disobedience and the urgency of the general welfare.” For a similar expression of Jones’ views, contained in a letter to Jefferson bearing this day’s date, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 5:469-71. John Mathews to George Washington Dear sir, Philadelphia April 16. 1781. I mentioned in my last, 1 that by the first good opportunity, I would communicate to yr. Excy. some thoughts respecting the present political state of affairs—such as they appear to me— perhaps my opinions may differ, from the generallity of your correspondents, as I know many are but too apt to keep their eyes contantly fixed on the pleasing side of the picture, & feel an aversion to take a View of the reverse, or if they do, endeavour by the most specious colourings to extenuate it’s deformities, & if possible cast a veil over the whole. The lines I now address to your Excy. will convince you, I am not one of those botchers, I represent things as they really are. Your station sir, entitles you to the most unreserved communications. The friendship you have done me the honor sir, to entertain for me, demands it of me. Yet it is with reluctance I enter on the task, well knowing your Patriotic bosom is already, suffi ciently torn with the embarrassments you daily encounter, and pants for some friendly hand to pour balsam into the wound, but still is incapable of shrinking from increased pain. Accept this apology most worthy sir for the unpleasant theme, which justice to your conspicuous station bids me discuss in the most p[l]ain and un equivocal {manner) language.
