April 16, 1781 161 that make the best of it, we cannot calculate upon more than 2,000,000, out of this fund, & that comes in so very slow, that it is of little use. To the third, we are now pretty well satisfyed, nothing is to be expected from that quarter, in money I mean. As to the last, you know very well sir it is a plan, that never can regularly feed the army. When will all this end? In an unsuccessful campaign, I have no manner of doubt. But will this be the least evil to be apprehended? I fear not. Indeed my Dearest sir, I begin almost to despond. Were I to consider my private interest, or that of my state only, I should altogether despair. And clear I am, in my opinion, that unless some effectual, vigorous, & decisive measures are speedily taken, to extricate us, from the labryinth of difficulty, & distress, into which we are at present plunged, all the generous blood that has been spilt in this glorious contest, will have been spilt in vain, & the spirits of those who have so nobly fallen, will stalk terrific through our land, seeking vengeance on those who have so infamously suffered their children to become slaves. As a citizen of America, as one who has more at stake than any man in it, as one who from our mistaken policy, is debared an intimate knowledge of our affairs, but who, from his station, ought to be acquainted with every thing. By these considerations I say sir, I have been led to make you these free communications. I know they must give pain to your generous nature, yet I supposed, you would rather wish to be made acquainted with them, than not. Whatever changes take place either for the better, or worse, with yr. Excys. permission, I will inform you of. Please to make my respectful complements to Mrs Washington, and believe me to be, My Dr. sir, with every sentiment of the sincerest friendship, & highest respect, Yr. Excys. most Obedt. servt. Jno. Mathews RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Not found. 2 Washington’s letter of April 8 revealing the states’ failures to meet their troop quotas had been read on the 12th. See JCC, 19:374; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:429-31. 3 At this point Mathews inserted an asterisk, to which he keyed “Pensylvania line” at the foot of the page. 4 That is, “The Marquiss’s detachment,” noted in similar manner at the foot of the page.
