162 April 16, 1781 Thomas Rodney’s Diary Munday Aprill 16th 1781. A Letter from Captn. Clark informing that Certain Stores Or dered to be laid up at fort Pitt for an expedition against the indians was not fully furnished and a request that Congress Would make up the deficiency by Sendg. forward Certain articles Mentioned Was read. 1 Genl. Varnum opposed the Motion & inquired Whether the expedition Was at the Instance or Under the direction of the United States or Virginia &c. Genl. Sulivan Said that this was an expedition of Virginia, that they were going on Some Wild goose Chase against the Indians or Detroit as he Supposed, when they ought to have Turned all their force against the Enemy now distroying the Most Cultivated part of their Country—and wanted Congress to Support them in it when All their fource & Supplies Was necessary against the Enemy Who were invading Sundry parts of the Country; that Virginia had been upon the Same Scheme for Several years past And allured the publick With An expedition against Detroit While all their views had a different effect. That they nor no other State had a right to form any Such expeditions Without the approbation of Congress &c. &c. &c. Governor Howly Said he was Now in favour of the Measure Since the Matter had gone So far that it wanted only a little assistance to Complete the Matter but that he lamented the Cause. That Virginia had wontonly Settled part of the back Country and now it was necessary to protect it—but that the occasion aught Not to have been Made &c. &c. Mr. Mathews informed Congress that this expedition had been Communicated to, & approved by the board of warr & Commander in Chief but that Virginia alone was to pay the Expence &c. for it. passed. In the report of Rules for the Conduct of Congress It was a question That no Motion Should be received unless Made or Seconded by a State. Genl. Sulivan, Governor Howley, Col. Bland & Mr. Clark Spoke against it. Mr. Mathews, Bee, Madison &c. &c. were for it—not past—rejected. MS (DLC: Rodney Family Papers). 1 George Rogers Clark’s April 2 letter had been forwarded to Congress by the Board of War, to whom it was returned this day with instructions to comply with the request “so far as the stores requested can be conveniently spared.” See JCC, 19:396; and PCC, item 60, fols. 33-34. General Washington had already been directing the commander at Fort Pitt to provide supplies to Clark. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:33-35, 316, 462, 480, 500.
