April 17, 1781 165 MS not found; reprinted from Essex Institute Historical Collections, 13 (July 1876): 229. 1 Lovell also wrote letters this day to Abigail Adams and to Elbridge Gerry concerning efforts he had recently made for the shipment of goods for them by wagon to Boston. The letter to Abigail is in Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 4:102-3. The letter to Gerry reads: “Yours of the 28th of March reached me yesterday. I have delivered the small one inclosed. “I could not send yr. Box by a Return of Mr. Dugan’s Waggon, because, as the Waggoners judged, the Tobacco Hogsheads would crush it, they being very badly shipped, one in each Waggon being short & one long. “I will write you more at my Leisure by a better Conveyance.” Gerry-Townsend Papers, NN. Thomas Rodney’s Diary [April 17, 1781] A Letter reed. To day from Genl. Green dated 30th March— relating in Substance that he had left his Baggage and Made a forced March To Overtake Cornwallace—but that before he arrived Cornwallace had decamped leaving his dead unburied & Taken his rout to Cross Creek And thence Toward Wilmington N.C.—That as the Virginia Malitia Would leave him in a few days, & his Army had Suffered greatly with fateague & Want of Provisions, and he left With an inferior force he Could not pursue any further—That the Whings & Tories in that Country were killing one a nother so fast that it Seem’d likely to Depopulate that Country—he also Sent a Copy of a Proclamation Issued by Cornwallace, Giving general Pardon and Protection To all (Murderers excepted) Who Would return to their homes & Take the Military oath before the 20th of Aprill. It was Moved by Govr. Bee that Genl. Greens Letter Should be Published, past in the negative. Govr. Bee applied and got leave to take the letter out of Congress. 1 A Long Letter Was read from a Mr. Baily, Phisition & Surgen in the Hospital department, by Genl. Varnum and the cause of the said Mr. Baily Was espoused by all the N.E. members. It was alledged by them that this man had been very Ill-Treated by the Medical Commte. particularly Mr. Clark. It was opposed by all the rest of the House and Mr. Houston alledged that he had done no duty Since 1779—but had been in Philada. postponed. 2 Mr. Bland Moved that as the Minister of France had offer’d us 400,000 Dollars in Specie and Bills if we Could Supply provisions To that amount, we ought to Accept the offer—and at the Same Time Offered a Scheme for doing this. Committed to a Special Committee. Mr. Moyland appointed Clothier Genii. 3 MS (DLC: Rodney Family Papers). 1 Not in the journals. 2 “Baily” has not been identified, and no information on this incident has been found in PCC or the jounals. 3 That is, John Moylan. See JCC, 19:402.
