April 17, 1781 167 The Extract of a letter from Genl. Washington, herewith en closed, 6 contains all the Authentic information received since our last, on the subject of another embarkation from N. York. For some days of late the report has died away into a general disbelief. Some persons just come out of N. York have revived it, with this variation, that it has a Southern object. We are extremely concerned to inform your Excellency, that the detachment of the Pennsylvania Line, on which our expectations have been so long fixed, are still detained by the want of money. Every expedient within our invention has been tried, without avail, to remove the obstacles to their march; and we have no encourage ment that the resources of the State will put them in motion, in less than 8 or 10 days, at the nearest. The detachment under the Marquis de la Fayette, is, we understand, again moving Southward, but we have great reason to apprehend, that the general cause of our embarrassment will at least retard their progress. The Extract above referred to, will give an idea, how far the Commander in Chief is likely to be in a condition to spare other detachments from the Troops immediately under him. By a return lately transmitted to Congress, it appears that he had not rec’d five hundred effective recruits from all the States whose levies were assigned to the Northern Department. It is pretty certain we believe that the British fleet under Arbuth not is arrived at N. York from Chesapeak. That of our Ally has certainly returned into N. Port. On receipt of yr: Excellency’s letter of the 8th ult. 7 respecting a plan to be concerted with the States of Maryland & Delaware, for the transportation of supplies to the Southward, we communicated the matter to the Delegates from those States, but they have never been furnished with any power or instructions relative to it. The Acts of this State, taking off the embargo, are under the same cover with this. 8 We have the honor to be, with sentiments of the highest respect, Yr: Excellency’s obt and hble Servants [James Madison Junr.] [Theok: Bland] [M. Smith] MS not found; reprinted from Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:74-76. 'Jefferson had, in fact, written two letters on March 26 to Congress and to the delegates concerning the anticipated appointment of Col. William Davies as commis sioner of the Virginia State Board of War. See PCC, item 71, 2:75-76; Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 5:246-47, 251; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:31-32. The governor explained to Congress that Davies would decline the office “unless his rank in the army, half pay for life, land & allowance for depreciation of pay can be reserved to him.” To the delegates he pointed out two “instances of similar Indulgence.” George Clinton held a Continental commission as brigadier general while serving as
