172 April 20, 1781 2 New York’s act authorizing Congress to levy an impost was received April 5, the same day the Pennsylvania Assembly adopted a similar law. See Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, April 16, 1781, note 2. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia April 20. 1781 I am directed to transmit your Excellency the enclosed Copies of Letters, viz, one from his Excellency President Reed to me, the other from Mr Fowler to President Reed, with the consequent Resolve of Congress of the 19th Instant; directing that effectual Measures be taken to make Enquiry into & correct the Abuses therein mentioned and for bringing the Offenders to condign Punishment. 1 This Mr Fowler is an Auditor appointed by Congress to settle public Accounts in that Quarter. It may not be amiss to mention to your Excellency, that it hath been suggested by Gentlemen of Character, that Colonel Broadhead for some Reasons is disposed to obstruct, rather than to aid Colonel Clarke in his present Expedition to the westward, & prevent his Proceeding. How far the latter Suggestion, or those Facts mentioned in Mr Fowlers Letter are well founded I cannot pretend to say. A proper Enquiry is necessary to ascertain those Matters; and I am firmly perswaded your Excellency’s Prudence will direct to such Measures as that the Public may not suffer by flagrant Abuses, and at the same Time no faithful Officers may be injured by ill founded Misrepresentations if any such there be. I have the Honor to be, with the highest Respect, Your Excel lency’s most obedient & most humble servant, Sam. Huntington President P.S. I have been Honourd with your Excellency Letters of the 12th & 14th instant. 2 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand with signature and postscript by Huntington. 1 Washington had recently sent an appeal to Congress for provisions for the garrison at Fort Pitt, which Congress had referred to Pennsylvania president Joseph Reed on April 18. Responding the same day, Reed pointed out that “proper measures were taken last fall’’ to ensure that sufficient meat and flour would be available at the fort, hinting that improprieties related to Col. Daniel Brodhead’s command there rather than poor planning or other deficiencies were at the root of the crisis. To substantiate the complaint, Reed cited the findings of Alexander Fowler, an auditor for the western district, who charged in a long March 29 letter to Reed that discipline had been “totally neglected” at the fort, and that under Brodhead’s command “private interest shamefully predominates over public oeconomy.” See JCC, 19:420— 21; PCC, item 69, 2:341-44, 365-76; and Huntington to Thomas Jefferson, April 18, 1781, note 1.
