April 23, 1781 177 upon it as a Matter of Indifference. Not being acquainted with that Gentlemen in the early Times of our Contest, I had by some means conceivd an Opinion of him not so favorable; but having had an Opportunity of critically observing him in the late Convention at Cambridge, I am satisfied he is a virtuous Citizen, & possessd of the genuine Principles of New England. That Mr Rivington, if this Letter should fall into his Hands, may not pretend to be at a Loss to know what is here meant, I will inform him that the genuine Principles of New England are Republican—Principles which have been admired by some of the greatest Characters, whom (if he is an Englishman) his Country can boast of. You & I, among others, have had the Honor of being abusd by Rivingtons Press; A labord Performance has lately crept out, called the Times. I have had a cursory reading of it. It appears to me so much like the Productions of certain Geniuses who figurd in Mr Popes Time, that had the Author been cotemporary with them, a Page might have been added to the Dunciad, 4 to immortalize his Works. I will endeavor to get some Parts of it transcribd & carry them to Boston. I am sure the reading it would serve to divert rather than give you the least Pain. My due Regards to Friends, your affectionate, SA FC (NN: Adams Papers). In the hand of Samuel Adams. 1 For a discussion of the breach in correspondence between Adams and Cooper, see Adams to Elizabeth Adams, February 1, 1781, note 3. 2 That is, Armand-Charles-Augustin de la Croix de Castries, comte de Charlus. 3 Not identified; but perhaps John Lowell, a political ally of Cooper and a member with Adams of the committee that drafted the 1780 Massachusetts state constitution. Charles W. Akers, The Divine Politician. Samuel Cooper and the American Revolution in Boston (Boston: Northeastern University Press, 1982), p. 307. 4 That is, Alexander Pope’s Dunciad, a famous lampoon on sundry English writers. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia March [i.e., April] 23. 1781.' I have been honored with your Excellency’s Letters of the 16th & 18th Instant. 2 You will observe by the enclosed Resolve of this Day, that it is the Sense of Congress, on receiving the Information contained in your Letter of the 16th, of the Proposals you have made respecting the Exchange of General Burgoine, that you be authorized to proceed in perfecting the Exchange, if you shall think fit, the Resolution of the third Instant notwithstanding. 3 I have the Honor to be, with very great Respect & Esteem, Sir, Your most obedient & most humble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington.
