180 April 23, 1781 without regular Estimates? Calculate if possible what paper Cur rency is necessary to pay an Equivalent, on a Variety of future Periods, for the 12 and 16 months Arrearages now due to the army & Civil Lists. The old money, which ought to have died the 1st of April must be destroyed and one Species and another of the remaining Paper must also be abolished as expeditiously as possible according to Circumstances, till there shall become a Demand of paper for absolute Necessities, instead of that Demand which is now so prevalent for mere Purposes of Huckstering in Exchange of Curren cies, and which even the well intentioned Citizen is goaded into that he may escape being sacrificed individually during the Term of the prevalent madness. Randall had arrived in Boston 9 days before yr. last Letter, but he was to deliver what he had in Charge from me to Mr. Otis. Please to present my Regards to Mr. Otis and tell him that Col. Hay, being here, acknowledges the Receipt of his Letter, imagined to be lost, after being committed to my Care. RC (MHi: Gerry II Collection). In Lovell’s hand, though not signed. 1 That is, Nathaniel Peabody. See Lovell to Nathaniel Peabody, July 25, 1781. 2 Not found; but for the packages Lovell was attempting to have delivered to Gerry and Abigail Adams, see Lovell to Samuel Holten, April 17, 1781, note. 3 The following brief note to Samuel Holten from Lovell dated “Apr. 24, 1781,” is in the Essex Institute Historical Collections 13 (July 1876): 228-29. “I am to thank you for your Favor of the 12th and can only make Return at this Time by inclosing Gazettes which I hope you will show to Mr. Gerry before you send them to the Navy Board as usual to be forwarded. He will in return let you know how little we know from Europe. Some very particular Engagements public & private prevent my enlarging further than to add affectionate and respectful assurances of being, Yours J.L.” Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia Apr. 24th 1781 The Board of War having spared to the Special Council for the Eastern Shore, & to the Virginia Delegates a number of the Rampart peices, I coud not obtain an order for more than 500—They have likewise given me an order for 2 four pound Brass Field peices complete. 1 If 41b Ball shoud be wanting, it will be proper to mention the number you woud have. It not being safe to Send the arms by water I presume you will order waggons up, or some to be procured here. The following is an extract of a Letter from Genl. Washington— “Head quarters, New Windsor Api. 16th. 81,1 have receivd advices through different Chann[e]ls corresponding with that transmitted Congress by Mr. Foreman. They strongly assert that a further detachment is going from New York, & that it is to be commanded
