190 April 27, 1781 from the Reach of Invaders, the superfluous Provision & Forage, will convince you that they can have no possible Tendency to discourage so laudable a Spirit, or to impede the Effects which may be expected from it. By order of Congress, Sam Huntington President 2 RC (MdAA: Red Books). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 In his April 21 letter to Congress, written in his capacity as chairman of the “Special Council” for the Maryland eastern shore, Tilghman had protested Congress’ call for the evacuation of provisions and forage from Maryland to forestall an enemy invasion rumored to be aimed at New Castle, Del., for which see Huntington to Certain States, April 9, 1781. That congressional recommendation, Tilghman com plained, was an insult to the state, an act which seemed to preclude the very “Idea of Resistance.” “Unhappy indeed is our Situation,” he went on, “if nothing more is necessary to compleat our Captivity than for the Enemy to take post at New Castle.” Tilghman’s contentious letter was read and referred on April 26 to a committee consisting of James Duane, James Madison, and John Sullivan. The present letter was submitted to Congress, adopted, and referred to the Board of War the following day. See JCC, 20:446, 455; and PCC, item 78, 22:463-66. See also Daniel Carroll to Tilghman, April 28, 1781. For the sensitivity of this “Special Council” to its prerogatives, which also became a matter of controversy between this body and the regular Council of Maryland at this same time, see Md. Archives, 45:406-8. 2 Huntington also sent Tilghman the following undated note, perhaps a day or two later, conveying a fresh warning of an anticipated invasion. “By a confidential person we are informed that it may be depended on as a certainty that a very considerable embarkation has taken place in New York and has been ready for sailing for some days with which gen Sr H Clinton is going. NB. the foregoing Intelligence was receivd the 27th of April, since which no farther accounts have been receivd, by Sam. Huntington.” Red Books, 8:30, MdAA. Virginia Delegates’ Memorandum Philadelphia April 27th. 1781 Memorandum of an Agreement entered into this 27th of April 1781 Between the Honble The Delegates of the State of Virginia on the one Part, and Ebenezer Cowell of the City of Philadelphia on the other. 1 The said Cowell doth hereby undertake to Cut and put in good Repair two Thousand Rampart Muskets, the Property of the Said State, 2 in the same Manner, and of the same length as those now Shewn in the War Office, at the rate of Seven Shillings and Six Pence Hard Money, or the value thereof in Paper Money at the Time of Payment. And the said Cowell doth hereby engage to finish Twelve Hun dred of the said Muskets in Fourteen Days from this Time, and deliver the same to the orders of the said Delegates to be trans ported to the said State of Virginia—and the Residue before the day of Payment. And the said Delegates do hereby engage to Pay the said Cowell or order the said Sum of Seven Shillings and Six Pence Hard Money or
