April 28, 1781 193 We are with the greatest respect Yr. Excy’s most obedt. Srts James Madison Junr. Theok. Bland M. Smith [P.S.] We have enclosed yr. Excy. a Copy of the agreement we have been necessitated to enter into in order to ensure and expedite a measure which we are Sensible is of the utmost importance to the State. 3 RC (PHi: Dreer Collection, Members of Congress). Written by Bland and signed by Bland, Madison and Smith. 1 For the failed negotiations with the “Virginia Merchants,” see Virginia Delegates to Virginia Merchants, April 24, 1781. 2 For the “Alternative” adopted, see the preceding entry, especially note 2. Although there is no mention in the journals of Maryland's share of “the remainder,” it is clear that the Maryland delegates had already obtained an order for 500 rampart pieces, for which see .Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee, April 24, note 1. For the arms destined for North Carolina, see jCC, 21:923-25; and William Sharpe to George Washington, September 1, 1781. 3 See the preceding entry. Daniel Carroll to Matthew Tilghman Sir, Philadelphia Api. 28th. 1781. I did myself the honor of addressing a few lines to you by Messrs. Goldsborough and Emory, 1 Since which the President received your Letter, to which Colo. Maylan the Bearer Carrys an Answer. 2 From the Character of this Officer, and the Contents of the letter ad dressed to you by the Board of War. I flatter mySelf the execution of the Resolves of Congress will not be attended with any disagreeable Circumstances. I am, Sir, Sensible that the Step taken by Congress on this Occasion, is of a very Serious Nature, even tho’ Nothing Should be attempted to be Carried into Execution, I Saw it in that light from the Beginning and gave Congress every information in my power, I was almost alone on the propriety and Necessity of the Measure. There is Some reason to believe, that Considerable Quan- titys of Flour are Stored on the Waters of Delaware, part of which may have been purchasd for the use of the Enemy. This I think was a strong if not the principal inducement with Congress, for the resolves they entered into. The enclosed paper contains Some important intelligence. 3 The Extracts of the Letter of the 22nd of Feby. are from Mr. Carmichael those from Holland of the 23d of Jany. from a Correspondent of his at the Hague. The picture Mr. Carmichael gives, of the State of affairs in Europe, is upon the whole pleasing.
