194 April 29, 1781 The President will give you by this opportunity the latest intelli gence from New York, 4 a Considerable Body of Troops were imbarkt. last week, General Clintons Baggage on Board, about 40 vessels under the Convoy of three Frigates are Said to have arrived at Sandy Hook last Saturday. Some Officers lately arrived in a flag from Charles Town, inform us, that a fleet Consisting of the above Number of Vessels, with the Chatham of 50 Guns, and two Frigates, left that place three days before the Flag Sailed. It is therefore probable the fleet Mentioned to have arrived at New York, is the Same which left Charles Town. I have the honor to be Sir, with great Esteem, Yr. Mo. Obt. Servt. Daniel Carroll. Tr (MdAA: Ridgely Transcripts). 1 See Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee, April 24, 1781, note 4. For the Special Council for the Eastern Shore’s April 13 instructions to Messrs. “Gold, and Emory” to transport arms and ammunition from Philadelphia to Talbot Co., Md., see Md. Archives, 43:396-97. 2 For Tilghman’s contentious letter of April 21 and Congress’ response, see Samuel Huntington to Tilghman, April 27, note 1. 3 The Pennsylvania Packet for this day included extracts from C. W. F. Dumas’ January 23 letter from the Hague and William Carmichael’s February 22 letter from Madrid, both of which had been read in Congress on April 27. See JCC, 20:452, and PCC, item 88, fols. 123-26, item 93, 1:491-93. Carmichael’s letter is also in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:265-66. 4 See the following entry. Daniel Carroll to Matthew Tilghman Sir, Philadelphia Api. 29th. 1781. Desirous that you might have the latest intelligence respecting the Embarkation at New York, I this morning requested the President of this State to give me what information he could on that subject. The Enclosed is his Answer. 1 I have nothing to add to what I wrote Yesterday, only that I am just informed a Packet is arrived at New York which sailed from England in Feby. I am, Sir, with great respect & Esteem, Yr. Mo. Obt. Sert. Dani. Carroll. Tr (MdAA: Ridgely Transcripts). 1 The enclosed “Answer” from Pres. Joseph Reed, which follows Carroll’s letter to Tilghman in the Ridgely Transcripts, reads: “The Presidents Complimts. to Mr. Carroll and acquaints him that his Intelligence from New York Seems rather to intimate that the proposed Embarkation is at least postponed and may most probably be laid aside. The preparations have Slackened for Several days, but as this may be a Feint to throw us off our Guard, we have not altered the orders given in this State in Consequence of the advise received last week.”
