April 30, 1781 199 militate against the general exchange negociating by the com mander in Chief; but as the powers of exchange in your department are by Congress fully lodged in your hands, we conceive it ought not to influence your conduct farther than military duty must enjoin. Policy in our opinion directs every thing to be done in this business that can be done without loss of time as the enemy have already engaged a very large number of our men, (from good authority we are informed between 5 and 600) and are daily engaging more in their service—inevitable necessity drives our unhappy men to quit the service of their country for one they detest, and the policy of the enemy places them in a situation that for ever precludes them from the least chance of returning, being all engaged for the west India service. 2 The inclosed paper* will show you the outrageous malice of the enemy against our Officers and the pressing necessity of something decisive being immediately done to prevent so diabolical a measure as is therein proposed to be adapted by them. We are sir, with much Esteem & regard, Yr. most Obedt. servts. By Order of the Committee John Mathews Chairman RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:92-93. 1 It is not clear from the journals when Congress may have “directed” this committee (to correspond with the commander of the southern department) to instruct Greene to investigate "complaints” concerning parole for American prison ers. For his express power “to negociate an exchange of prisoners,” however, see Samuel Huntington to Greene, October 31, 1780. In this same vein, Mathews had coincidentally been appointed on April 28 to chair a committee reviewing an appeal from South Carolina and Georgia prisoners for Congress to establish a line of credit in Charleston upon which they could draw to repay debts and to purchase “Necessaries.” On May 2 Congress assigned 600 hogsheads of Virginia tobacco for that purpose and on May 25 it extended the policy to prisoners in New York as well as Charleston. See JCC, 20:458, 468, 534; and PCC, item 158, fols. 481, 485-87. 2 In a letter to Congress of May 10 Greene enclosed a copy of a cartel for the exchange of prisoners in the southern department which had been the subject of negotiation for some time. In his letter Greene estimated that fully “one third of the force” employed by Britain in the south “are deserters from our Army, & prisoners enlisted from our Captives.” He recommended that Congress declare that all prisoners of war who “engage in the enemies service...shall be treated as Deserters if taken in Arms against us.” See PCC, item 155, 2:67-69, item 172, fols. 137-42. 3 For this extract of a March 30 letter to Gen. William Moultrie from Col. Nisbet Balfour, British commandant at Charleston, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson) 3:93-94nn.6, 9. Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia April 30. 1781 By the latest Advices from Spain the Affairs of America have a favorable Aspect at the Court of Madrid, tho’ Mr. Cumberland was still permitted to be there under the ostensible Pretext of obtaining the salubrious Air for the Health of some of his Family, and, among
