208 May 2, 1781 2 For George Nicolson’s mission in Philadelphia and the steps the delegates had taken to provide “2000 good Muskets,” see Jefferson, Papers, (Boyd), 5:458-59; and Virginia Delegates Memorandum, April 27, 1781. 3 That is, the goods from Le Comite, for which see Virginia Delegates to Jefferson, April 24, note 2. 4 Not found, but undoubtedly Washington’s letter of April 25 read in Congress on the 30th, for which see JCC, 20:463; and Samuel Huntington to Washington, this date, note 3. John Mathews to George Washington Dear sir, Philadelphia May 2. 1781. You will no doubt think it something singular, that the inclosed should be of so old a date, 1 and handed to you with this, but the reason of it is, that it was meant to go by Govr. Rutledge, who intended paying a visit at Head Quarters, but being taken ill, tho’ expecting daily to be in condition to prosecute his journey, finding that not likely to be soon the case, I have requested Mr. Duane to be the Bearer of it. Our last accounts from Europe are very flattering, particularly from Spain. From some circumstances that have lately taken place at that Court, it seems more favourably disposed towards us, than it hath hither to been. And as soon as some late determinations of Congress, can arrive there, we have little room to doubt, but what our expectations in that quarter will be fully compleated. The decisive measures pursuing by Holland, supported as they are, by the strongest assurances from Russia, places the war in Europe on the most formidable footing against G. Britain Although the Emperor of Germany puts on the appearance of war, (and as, is generally supposed, in favor of G. Britain) Yet it is most likely he will be too much overawed, to enter seriously into it. How unfortunate is it, that with all these bright prospects in our favor, we have little or no ability to profit by them. However, as you will see Mr. Duane, and who proposes making a full communication to your Excy. of the present state of our affairs, I shall forbear to ingroce your time, with any further observations on that subject. The inclosed extract of a letter, sent us by Genl. Moultrie, will shew yr. Excy. what a deplorable state our unfortunate prisoners at Chs. town are likely to be reduced to, unless some thing can be immediately done for their relief. We are further informed Ld. Chs. Montagu, has enlisted between 5 and 600 of our Continentals, & was daily engaging more, all intended for the West India service, so that, they must be for ever lost to us. The Committee of correspondence, by order of Congress, have written to Genl. Greene on this subject, 2 to take the most effectual measures to effect an exchange, as far as his powers extend, but its likely he will want some instructions from you on the business.
