222 May 8, 1781 James Lovell to Samuel Holten Dear Sir May 8, 1781. 1 Your Favor of the 26. of April reached me yesterday. Your Troops are coming on “in large numbers.” The General informs you that Tents &c. will be much wanted; and the Court will make their “usual Exertions.” Indeed Doctor I am persuaded that in a comparative View Massachusetts will appear to have been among the most vigorous States; but we are at this moment in the most disgraceful and hazardous Situation from the Backwardness of every individual State. Foreign Troops are to garison West Point because foreign Troops can feed themselves, and are paid. Our Quarr. Mastr. genl, has been obliged to sell some of his provision to enable himself to transport the rest to a Skeliton of an Army in Want of the very Pounds of meat or Flour which he has been forced to part with. If you know of a Compliance with one Requisition of Congress, in Time & Quantity, do let me have it that I may show it to the Delegates of the 12 States who cannot produce a single Instance. We are in an Uproar here about the Money. Sailors with Clubs parade the Streets instead of working for Paper. The Beer houses demand hard for a Pot of Drink; and all this because the Council have published that the difference between Silver and old Continen tal was 175, the latter having been sold 180 & 200 for one several Days. Did Massachusetts sink its Quota by the 1st of April? Some States had not then begun to sink a Shilling. You say Mr. Partridge and Mr. Osgood are coming on: I ask with what money in their Pockets? That of our State is not counted money here. The old continental is dying by Yards not Inches. And if my Friends purchase Gold with their State money, They become Speculators, say all the Villains who have created the Necessity. Are you not aware of the Perdition that awaits my Family while the Paper System goes on. I take a Thousand Dollars here whether in old or 5 & 5 /7 State I draw for 1000 or 25 State. I lose the Interest on the 25 as I have twice or thrice done on 250 and I pay above 1500 for patching my Coat, &c. MS not found; reprinted from Essex Institute Historical Collections, 13 (July 1876): 230-31. 1 Lovell also wrote the following second letter to Holten this day: “I yesterday reed. yr. favor of April 26th. I am glad to hear from you that the Massa. Troops are coming on in large numbers. Indeed Doctor the States in most Credit in Compliance with the Requisitions of Congress are very very backward and the affairs of the Continent are consequently in a most alarming Situation. I scratched a Letter and would not trust it to the Post. Perhaps I shall send it by Mr. Payne who goes tomorrow. “I inclose a Paper which will show something of the Shock of the old Continental Currency. “If the Weather is fair Tomorrow I think I shall be able to get up to the State House. Your Friend & h. St., James Lovell.” Ibid., p. 230.
