230 May 11, 1781 upon my honor it is not in my Power to do more—let me hear often from you, how you do, what you do—and where you are—tis a great alleviation to my mind—and those who love me will not sure deny me so small a gratification. I am pleased beyond measure to find that Fanny has at last found the Use of her Pen, her letters are a Cordial to me—tell her not to lay it down but to write a few lines to me every day, and date them that I may be sure she thinks of me daily—she will find an opportunity to send them every now and then tell her not to mind coherency, or form, or manner, I know she does not want Matter, she has her Choice of Subjects—and as she has now got a Hero of her own—she may if she pleases write the history of his adventures or an Epic Poem, or a traji-comedy, or any thing she pleases—she may give me a detail of domestic occurrencies, family Chit Chat, tea Table Tittle Tattle, a treatise on agriculture, a dissertation, on milk & Butter, or on the art of spinning and weaving &c. &c. but above all let me know that she is well, and thereby add to my happiness. 1 I remark what you say with regard to the Boys and shall exert my utmost endeavors to obtain for them, a good Tutor. I wish you wd. put this wholly on me for shd you and my father and myself Engage each of us one, I fancy they will be over-tutord, I shall therefore take it for granted and act accordingly. You complain that I do not impart to you a full draught of Politics. Remember my Friend that it is not safe in these days of Speculation, and inspection of letters for a Man in my station to be diffuse on this head—the Arcana of the grand Manoeuvre ought to be but in a few hands—and not too liberally trusted to Paper; faelix quem faciunt aliena Pericula cautem. 2 The Enemy with their Tory coadjutors have robbd three of our Mails to the Northward since I came to this Place, and have publishd their Contents to the world, sophisticated to serve their purposes, I do not wish to give them a text to Comment upon. This is my apology for the omission you complain of—But I will in General tell you that you may expect the Pennsylvania line before this reaches you, a fine body of Veterans used to the Bayonette, with the Gallant Wayne at their head; and that every possible Exertion is using to Supply you plentifully with good arms; that Our Friend the King of Spain has actually supplyed us with a large Quantity of Cloathing about three thousand suits of which are actually arrived; that the 2d division of the French fleet together with the first will probably be in our bay by the time this reaches you—and that finally all things will go well—could the states be prevailed on to throw into the hands of Congress a few of those soverign powers, which are (in the hands of the individual States) totally inefficient to work the general weal—as the powers of no one state can be competent or coextensive to the wants of the whole. This is one of those obvious maxims in government that I fear the states will not be convinced of before they are on the Brink of Ruin, 3 to this cause alone is owing
