May 11, 1781 231 the Embarrassd State of our finances—to this is owing the low conditions of our Navy, to this the weakness of our Army, and the Scantiness of its supplies—while Individuals are getting imaginary riches by preying on each other in an unjustifiable manner. The weakness of the whole exposes them to the fangs of an invader who may overturn the State, and bury them & their fortunes in the General wreck. Shall I tell you that the States have been so negligent in collecting their Taxes or in making the Tax gatherers pay them in, that not less than 100 million of arrears to speak without exaggeration is due to the Treasury of the U.S. while this sum remains in Circulation to be speculated on, speculated from, to depreciate, & when paid into the Treasury will not be worth an 100th part of what it wd have been. We have at length got a Superintendent of finance, Armed with mighty powers from whom great reformation is Expected (Mr Rt. Morris of this City.) I hope his abilities will rescue us from the abyss of Ruin in which we were plunging, but I own I am not among the Sanguine in this Expecta tion, unless the state give into the hands of Congress the Sole power of Issuing money—and of obliging the delinquents as well states as Individuals, to pay the Taxes; of imposing such Taxes as will constitute an efficient fund for borrowing of regulating Commerce, of enrolling seamen for the Navy &c. &c. I must now bid you adieu without Joking you on the Bayonette wound which you have so modestly hinted at in Fannys letter—a more artfull Soldier would have turnd such an honorable mark to good account. Your Martial atchievements have reachd this place and are registrd already in the book of fame. I expect every moment to hear that all my property is Sacrificed by my Friend Phillips, 4 who I hear has destroyd, Man chester, Warwick, Ozbornes, Petersburgh, Battersea-Mills & house and Blandford. Shall Cato’s House Stand Safe while others suffer in these Civil Broils? here I am—Pennyless. Paper money ceases to pass. Not one shilling can I get from Virginia, and nothing but my Priviledge will keep me from a Goal unless I can get speedily supplied—for God sake assist my Father in making me some remittances in hard money, or I am undone, once more adieu Dear Tucker & believe me to be, Yr. affecte Friend, Theok. Bland [P.S.] Give me an accurate General detail of the transactions of the British army and of ours in your next, and particularly of the Enemy Quond my Property and that of my Father, I have heard of my man Joe, & shall I Excuse yet him again—The Minister of France has promised to have him [....] RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 This day Bland also wrote to his sister “Fanny,” Frances Bland Tucker, describing for effect his “melancholy” situation in Philadelphia and himself as a man “who has
