232 May 11, 1781 not one shilling in his Pocket, cannot Borrow one farthing—has a Wife, a Child, four Servants, five Horses, to Support, neither Hay or Corn in the Stable, neither bread nor meat in the House; no expectation of a remittance from Virginia—a momentary expectation of hearing that his House & Plantation, furniture &c. are destroyd by the Enemy who has marchd through it.” Tucker-Coleman Papers, ViW. 2 "Fortunate is he whom the dangers of others have rendered cautious.” Alfred Henderson, Latin Proverbs and Quotations (London: Sampson Low, Son, & Marston, 1869), p. 122. 3 Bland had been preoccupied with this subject since the introduction of a March 12 committee report drafted by James Madison which proposed that Congress be conferred with coercive powers sufficient to enforce the newly-adopted Articles of Confederation, for which see JCC, 20:469—71; Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:17- 20; and James Vacuum to William Greene, March 16, 1781, note 3. Consideration of the report had been delayed until May 2 when Bland was appointed to a “grand committee” assigned to revise it. At some time between the introduction of the report and the conclusion of his work on the grand committee, Bland apparently drafted the following queries, although the use to which he put them remains unclear. “Is Congress capable of Legislating for 13 States, whose laws, whose Constitutions, whose adminstrations, whose genius differs in so many respects? “Would not the first attempt to Legislate—if opposed—produce a Civil war—must not coercion be used—what powers of Coercion have Congress in their hands? “An Coercion might be used against the states—prohibitory laws against their commerce—distraint on their property. “But suppose the states shd. side with the Edicts of Congress & only a district oppose—the interference of one part of the state against the other wd. be unconstitu tional—the coercion of Congress ineffectual. Wd. not a State standg. out against the edicts of Congress, when coercion was about to be used, strengthen itself with alliances of other states? Wd. not this effectually break the Union—or wd. it not if it found that impracticable have recourse to foreign aid—this wd. most effectually destroy not only the Union.” Bland Papers, ViHi. For the views of his colleagues, Madison and Joseph Jones, on this subject, see Madison to Thomas Jefferson, April 16, 1781. 4 That is, Maj. Gen. William Phillips, who was in command of the British troops then ravaging Virginia. Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia May 12th. 1781 An express just setting out gives me an opportunity of enclosing this days paper. By some accident no Letter came by the Vessel from L’Orient as I am informd, not even to the Merchants who have goods on board. The Capt & an intelligent passenger say, that three fleets saild from Brest abt. the 20th of March, supposd to be destind for North America, the West & East Indies. Captn. Josiah left L’Orient the 27th of March. I will endeavour to see the passenger & be more particular by next post. I am very unwilling to write any thing I hear at second or third hand. I have the Honor to be Yr Excellencys Most Obt Servt. Dani. Carroll P.S. The passenger, I am told, left Ireland not much more than 2 Mos. past, & says that a number of the Volunteer Associators having
