May 13, 1781 233 assembled [...] they were ordered to seperate, [upon th]eir refusing a Regiment was sent [to disper]se them; an engagement ensued, & another regiment having reinforced the first, they were both drove & defeated by the Associators—several regular officers Killd, among them a Col. Blackwell. RC (MdAA: Red Books). Samuel Huntington to Nathanael Greene $ lr > Philada May 12. 1781 You will receive enclosed, an Act of Congress of the 8th Instant, among other things, directing that the Chaplains of the several State Lines be arranged so as to retain in Service no more Chaplains of each Line than are equal to the Number of Brigades, that the Supernumeraries be certified to the Board of War and be no longer continued in Service &c.' Yesterday a Vessel arived in this Port from L’Orient. She brings Advice that a Fleet sailed from France seven Days before she sailed, consisting of about ten Ships of the Line and a large Number of Troops on Board, supposed to be destined for America. We hope soon to receive a Confirmation of this Account with the Particulars more certain. This Vessel brings no Despatches, but from the best Enquiry I can make it appears sufficiently certain that a very considerable French Fleet had sailed from France, their Destination, Number of Ships & Troops is Matter of Opinion. I have the Honor to be &c &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 See JCC, 20:487-88. Samuel Livermore to Meshech Weare Dear Sir Philadelphia May 13th. 1781. I arrived at this place last evening & tomorrow I intend to go to Congress. 1 I have the pleasure to find Genl Sullivan well & as Our State has had no vote in Congress for Some time past he is determined to tarry here for the present. There is nothing here so interesting as the present fluctuation of paper currency. The old continential is as low as 500 for one. Our State new emission is not known here as Pensylvania have not emitted their new emission of Continental but made an emission of their own State mony in stead of it. Connecticut did the like. So that I had the utmost difficulty to travel thro’ Connecticut, York, Jersy & Pensylvania on paper mony. And being here I cant live one day on our State mony. Their own
