240 May 14, 1781 I suspect some private hand has them on the Road. You have Letters from the General and will see an Officer sent by him so that I need not say any Thing, 1 only “for God Sake believe what is written & said by them.” I attend Congress, but I am a Cripple & in great Pain. I think, however, that I shall speedily get the free Use of my Hip as the Weather grows warm. Our Intelligence from the Southward is far, very far from pleas ing. Cornwallis is on his Way to Hilsborough and Philips with all the advantages of Water Transportation is contriving a Junction. Affectly. Yrs. JL RC (MHi: Gerry-Knight Collection). 1 Lovell is undoubtedly referring to the mission of Gen. William Heath, who under orders of General Washington was to deliver letters and his personal pleas for “supplies for the Army” to the New England governors. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:63-66. William Sharpe to James Duane Dear Sir Philadelphia May 14th. 1781 Congress have received letters from the Marquis De la Fayette and Govr. Jefferson dated the 8th and 9th instant 1 by which we are informed that Genl. Philips, after great destruction of Tobacco, Ware houses &c, advanced to Manchester on the South bank of James’s river opposite to Richmond and summoned the Marquis and required him to be answerable for some vessels lying in the north side of the river, about the same time Arnold with 600 troops passed the river a little below who being furiously attacked by about 30 of Nelsons horse, Arnold retreated and recrossed the river with the utmost precipitation and disorder. Genl. Phillips then retreated d[own river?] and embarked his troops. I believe on the 5[th the] enemy relanded on the south side of James [River and by?] the 8th were beyond Petersb[urgh...] 2 to join Lord Cornwal[lis...] 2 Wilmington and Hallifjax ...]. 2 On the 26th of last month Genl. Greene was before the enemies post at Camden which he discovered to be much stronger than was apprehended. It is probable we may gain the post; but I fear a plan is formed to intercept Genl. Greene on his return from that place—time only can discover the enemys disign or the event of the var[ied] and complicated opperations to the southward. We have alarming apprehensions for want of provisions for the northern army. The Executive of this State gives no reason to expect any farther supply until the Assembly meets—on the 24th of this month. They have resolved to emit no more of their £500,000 before they have the directions of the Assembly.
