May 15, 1781 241 By Capt. Josiah who sailed from L’Orient on the 26th of March we are informed that the Frigate Alliance with the Fayette loaded with Cloathing &c under convoy were to sail the next day. He also says that a large French fleet sailed from Brest on the 20th March—one squadron of which was destined for America—one for the west Indias & one for the East Indias. This division of the fleet must be only, conjecture at L’Orient. I am in pain for the Cloathing &c. The enemy have three Frigates cruising off the capes of Delaware. [I hope?] Mrs. Duane will excuse the liberty when I [attempt?] to make [my] best compliments to her & [to your family?]. [I am,] dear Sir, very respectfuly, Your most Obt Humble Servt. Wm. Sharpe RC (NHi: Duane Papers). 1 Copies of Lafayette’s May 8 and Jefferson’s May 9 letters to Congress were enclosed in the Board of War’s May 13 letter to Washington, all of which are in the Washington Papers, DLC. Although the former were read in Congress this day, neither is in PCC. See JCC, 20:49. 2 Three or four words missing. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to John Hall Dear Sir, 1 Phila. May 15th. 1781 The late Scale of Depreciation as laid down by the Presidt. & Council of this State has thrown every thing into Confusion; no Money except hard will pass in this City but at the most ruinous rate. Our Northern Army is Starving, & Congress have it not in their power to remove one hundred barrels of Flour. I received from the Treasurer of our State Three hundred & forty pounds of the New Emission in Consequence of an Order from the Gov. & Council, 2 part of this Money I exchanged for Continental being told it was Money that was prefered in Phila. to any other paper. On my way up I met Numbers of Speculators from Phila with quantities of Continental to pass it off in our State. How they succeeded I know not, but that, nor any other paper will now pass in this City but at the most Destructive rate. I have therefore returned the Continental To Mr Stone in hopes the Assembly will give directions to the Treasurer to receive this Money in exchange for Bills of the New Emission. I should also have returned the New Bills (for I cannot pass them here) but they are too bulky. What the Maryland Dilegates will do for want of Money I do not know, there is but one Mode by which they can be supplyed ie, to order a quantity of Superfine flour to be Manufactured at the Head of the Bay, Superfine flour will command hard Money. Should this plan be adopted by the assembly or the Governor & Council Mr. Joseph Gilpin will execute it with dispatch. Coll. Hollingsworth has too
