248 May 17, 1781 RC (PPArnP: Franklin Papers). 1 For the case of Dr. Benjamin Putnam, who had been seeking recompense from the French government for a British sloop he had captured and carried into Guadeloupe, only to have it seized by the French governor, the comte d’Arbaud, and turned over to the British governor of Antigua, see JCC, 15:1022-24; and PCC, item 90, fols. 115-22, 139-51, 160-67. John Sullivan to George Washington Dear General Philadelphia May 17th 1781 I was Last Evening honored with your Excellencys favor of the 11th Instant. 1 I am sorry that the report respecting promotions has been so long Delayed, but this delay has not been Occasioned by any Difference in Sentiment between your Excellency and the Commit tee. Your reasonings were attended to & there remains no Differ ence of Sentiment between us though perhaps Congress may make some alterations Disagreable to us all. The Report has Long Since been made to Congress & two Days have already been Spent in Considering it & I flatter myself that this Day will bring it to a Conclusion. 2 The Situation of Colo. Tilghman and other Gentlemen of that Line has opened a Field Extensive Enough & Occasioned Much delay. I hope however to obtain Such a determination as will do Justice to the feelings of Those Gentlemen who have Merited so Much from the public. 3 I Lament exceedingly the Distresses of our Army, the deplorable Situation of our Public affairs and tremble for the Event. Mr. Robert Morris has Accepted the office of Minister of Finance upon which I Sincerely congratulate your Excellencey & my Country. The appointment of the other officers is delayed for reasons which I cannot comprehend. The ostensible one respecting a Minister of War is that There is no man Existing upon whom Congress can agree. 4 Many of the Members Say that if your Excellency or the principal officers would recommend any person they would imme diately proceed to the Choice of that officer—& I presume that of Marine as also that of Foreign affairs would follow of Course. We have no News worthy your Excellencys attention. I have the honor to be, with the most perfect respect, Dear Genl your Excys mos obedt. Servant, Jno. Sullivan RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:70-72. 2 The plan was adopted on May 25. See Samuel Huntington’s second letter to Washington of May 28, 1781. 3 In the plan adopted on May 25, Washington’s aide Tench Tilghman was commissioned lieutenant colonel with date of rank from April 1, 1777, and aides-de- camp were made eligible “to command upon detachments” at the discretion of the commander in chief or department commanders. JCC, 20:541. See also Committee of Congress to Washington, March 9, 1781, note 3. 4 See Sullivan to Washington, March 6, 1781, note 4.
