May 20, 1781 253 John Mathews to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir, Philadelphia May 20th. 1781 The various accounts we frequently have here, & the want of information from you, puzzles us exceedingly; a thousand conjec tures are formed, but your true situation we can learn nothing of. A Man arrived here yesterday one Jennette, who says he left you before Camden on the 27 Ulto. & that it was expected that place would surrender to you in the course of four or five days. This will serve you as a specimen of the reports I have above alluded to. You may readily suppose our anxiety is not small, when we receive such intelligence, to hear something from the fountain head. We so frequently receive similar intelligence which is soon again contra dicted, that we are grown callous, & believe nothing, but what we get officially. I hope we shall soon hear from you, & be relieved from this cruel state of doubt & uncertainty; and I flatter myself when it does arrive, it will be pleasing; tho’ I must confess, we have little reason to expect it. Congress have at last put the means in Genl. Waynes hands to march, 1 & I have no reason to doubt, but what he is this day on his march. Had this been done six weeks ago, (which might as well have been then done, as three days ago) he would ’ere this have been with you, & in all probability prevented the present movements of the enemy. But whilst we have men at the head of our affairs, who are uniformly opposed to the least deviation from the plain John trot mode of doing business, whose souls are confined within the compass of a nut shell, & who like Dean Swifts’ Peter, Jack, & Martin, tremble at the very Idea of doing any thing that is not strictly injoined them by their fathers Will tho’ the salvation of the country depended on it. 2 I say whilst we have such Quidnunc politicians to manage our affairs, we must expect nothing vigorous, or decisive, being done. However they have at length in one instance blundered across the Rubicon (but I believe most of them did it with their eyes shut, as Children do, when they walk in the dark, for fear of meeting the Devil in their way.) I mean the vote that was passed, giving powers to Genl. Wayne, to press provisions on his march, whenever he wanted them. Perhaps you may laugh at my making such a fuss about this affair, as your army is fed by scarcely any other means. But remember there is no such power literally given to Congress by Confederation and to act up to the spirit of it, is a doctrine supposed to be big with many evils, therefore reprobated. I conceive it to be a great point gained, to drive them from this ground; it looks like conceeding the point, & that necessity will oblige them, to interpret the powers given by the Confederation in their utmost extent, & in my opinion, ought upon some occasions, to be strained to answer the great purposes of war. But I apprehend, when these Doughty heroes, have opened their eyes, & looked back,
