254 May 20, 1781 on the tremendous gulph they have passed, they will be astonished at their own temerity; & the next they come to, they will make a halt, to examine their tender consciences, whether, after having escaped so great a danger with impunity, it would be prudent to tempt their fate again; & most probably, the result will be, that they are sure the Devil must fly away with them, should they sin a second time, & of course they will apostatize. In which case, it will be an Herculian labour to bring them back to the charge. The backwardness of the States, in executing the requisitions of Congress, is intolerable, & when they do, it is in such a loose, discordant manner, that their small exertions produce little good, from whence principally arises our embarrassments. It therefore appears to me absolutely necessary, & for the true interest of the union, that the several states, should give to Congress Dictatorial powers during the war, & instruct their Delegates, to take the most vigorous measures for prosecuting the war. This power is certainly more safely lodged in the hands of such a body as Congress, than any other. The only objection I have to it, is, that I am afraid, they will want spirit to do their duty, but this may be remedied by spirited instructions. Something like this must soon be done, or as I am clearly convinced our affairs will grow from bad to worse, which must end in our utter ruin. Those states that are in perfect tranquillity, & feel nothing of the effects of the war, will I know, be averse to such a measure, therefore I despair of it’s being done, but they will too late find, when the house falls, they will inevitably be crushed in its ruins. We must either stand or fall together. However they may amuse themselves with the Idea of sacrificing some for the good of the whole, the hypothesis will prove fallacious, divida et empera, is an axiom that will prove as certain, as it is old. I am My Dr. sir, with sentiments of the most sincere Esteem & regard, Your most Obedt. servt. Jno. Mathews RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). 1 See JCC, 20:516. 2 An allusion to Jonathan Swift’s satire on the Catholic, Anglican, and Dissenting churches, in section II of A Tale of a Tub. Samuel Huntington to John Adams Sir, Philadelphia May 21. 1781 Colonel Derricks will have the Honor of delivering you this. He is a deserving young Gentleman who hath served some Years in the American Army with Honor & Reputation, but by the late Arrangement of the Army he is out of Service and returning to Holland. 1
