May 28, 1781 269 I have the Honor to be, with the highest Respect, Your Excel lency’s most obedient & very humble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 The Board of War had experienced difficulty since February implementing a congressional order for removing the Convention Army prisoners from Virginia to a place of safety, and on May 22 had requested a conference with a committee of Congress to discuss the subject. According to the report of the committee appointed to confer with the board submitted the same day, Massachusetts rather than Pennsylvania was to be the prisoners’ destination, but when the Massachusetts delegates objected to the recommendation a compromise was adopted simply authorizing the board to remove them “to such place as they think most conducive to the good of the union in general.” The board then decided to divide the Convention prisoners between Connecticut and Massachusetts out of deference to the latter’s objections. See/CC, 20:522, 526-27, 529-30; PCC, item 148, 1:377-78; and Hunting ton to Thomas Jefferson, March 4, 1781. However, when Washington learned of this decision, he too objected, recommending that the prisoners be halted in Pennsylva nia, and Congress endorsed Washington’s suggestion on June 12. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:167-70; and JCC, 20:629-30. 2 For the enclosed resolve concerning Gen. Horatio Gates, see Huntington to Gates May 22, 1781, note. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia May 28. 1781 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, an Act of Con gress of the 25th Instant containing the general Principals to be observed in Promotions in the Line of the Army. 1 This Plan hath been adopted upon mature Deliberation, to be observed as a general Rule in Promotions, as subject to the fewest Objections of any that could be devised (though not altogether free from them) under the peculiar Situation & Circumstances of the federal Army, raised & recruited from so many distinct soverign States. Your Excellency will also note the Promotion of Lieut. Colonel Tilghman and Major McHenry, as also the Provision made for Officers who are hostages & for Aids de Camp as specified in this Act. For your Excellency’s Information I have also enclosed a Resolve of the 26th Instant, ordering a Copy of Major General Greene’s Letter of the 22d of April to be transmitted to several of the States. 2 I have the Honor to be, with very great Respect, Your Excel lency’s most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington.
