270 May 28, 1781 1 For the adoption of the enclosed resolves, which endorsed the recommendations of a committee appointed to consider concerns voiced by Washington in a letter of December 20, 1780, see JCC, 19:1, 104, 242-46, 20:491, 539^11; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:501-5; and John Sullivan to Washington, January 2, March 9, and May 17, 1781. Huntington also enclosed these resolves with a nearly identical letter of this date to Nathanael Greene. Sparks Manuscripts, MH-H. 2 See Huntington to Certain States, this date. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to Unknown My dear Sir, 1 Phila. May 28th. 1781 I thank you for your favor of the 25th. The Enemys Cruizers being in our Bay & Rivers I conceived would prevent the General assemblys meeting so soon as the Exigency of our affairs required. It is now Neck or nothing. Every exertion must be used this Campaign to prevent the Southern States being overrun. Every dispersion of the Enemy has its effect, & altho the prize be small yet it encourages interprize. Yesterday & to day arrived from the Havanah Eight Sail of Vessels with Hard Money. The Merchants I am told pay very little regard to the embargo Law, indeed the State has not Money to purchase the third of any Vessels Cargo even were it to be offered to the President & Council. The Pennsylvania Line I believe is now on their March. General Wayne was obliged to Order a Platoon to fire on part of the right Wing who refused to March four of the Mutineers were killed one man it is said had 23 Balls through him. Your Delegates are without Money or Credit. What are they to do, none but hard will pass at this place unless it be on the most ruinous terms. There is but one way that I know of by which they may be supplied, & that is by ordering some wheat, at the Head of the Bay to be Ground up into Superfine Flour. Mr. Joseph Gilpin promissed me on my way up to execute a Commission of this sort, were he to be empowered by the assembly or The Governor & Council. 2 Col. Hollingsworth has too much on his hands to give proper attention to this business. There never has been a time when Men of abilities were more necessary in Congress than at present, therefore I wish that proper attention may be paid to the Delegates Letter by this Post to the General Assembly? We are not at liberty to disclose particulars, but the sooner an addition is made to the Delegation the better as delay cannot be admitted. Altho at every Post want prevails, yet I flatter myself that our affairs will soon look up & that supplies will soon be had.
