280 May 29, 1781 both by Land & Sea & Enable us to regain what we have Lost prior to the ratification of a peace & Enable us to Treat with advantage. The Scrupulous adherence of the French Monarch to his obliga tions, The favorable Disposition of the Court of Spain toward the united States & The Political Interest of the European powers in rendering us Independant will all operate to procure us That Freedom & Safety for which we have Spent So much blood and Treasure. We cannot under the present Situation of Affairs avoid Entreating you & through You the assembly of New Hampshire to use Every possible Exertion to Take advantage of the present State of facts, profit by the assurances which we have received & thereby avoid the Consequences which Languid Efforts must certainly produce. We have the Honor to be very respectfully Dear Sir Your most obedient Servants. Jno. Sullivan Samuel Livermore RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). Written by Sullivan, and signed by Sullivan and Livermore. Samuel Johnston to James Iredell My dear Sir. Philadelphia, May 30th, 1781. I thought about this time to be making preparations for leaving this place, but none of my colleagues appearing to relieve me, several States being unrepresented in Congress, and affairs of the first magnitude being now on the tapis, I thought it inconsistent with my honor to leave the State unrepresented at so interesting a period. Notwithstanding my anxious impatience to return to my family, I have determined to stay till I am relieved, or at least till the States are more fully represented in Congress. I don’t doubt but you and my sister will offer such reasons to Mrs. Johnston as will reconcile her to this measure. I hope she will keep up her spirits, and if I should not return before the sickly season, I wish you would prevail on her to take the children down to the sea-side, if it can be done with safety; but as I have hopes of returning before that time, it will be unnecessary to say any thing on the subject till the season approaches. The uncertainty of a letter’s getting safe to you, lays me under great restraints. I can only mention in general that the King of France has given us under his own hand very lately, the most unequivocal assurances of his friendship and support, and is at this time exerting his interest and influence at the different courts in Europe to bring our affairs to a happy and speedy conclusion; and I have in my own mind the most perfect confidence in these assur ances. We shall suffer much in this campaign; it will be very bloody, but I
