June 1, 1781 283 to be hoped enable us to do something beyond what it would otherwise be in our power to effect. Virga, receiving so little aid from the North occassions many of her Citizens in their Letters to the Delegates to insinuate that as they are at ease and in safety they care not for the southern States. This notion is but too prevalent and is of dangerous tendency to slacken the efforts of the people and more readily dispose them to submission. I hope Your deliberations with Ct. Rochambeau have determined upon relinquishing the Idea of a certain Conquest for the present and shew yourself in Virginia where I think your Name and presence wod. be of infinite service— but my dear Sr. I mention these things with the utmost deference to your own Judgment and feelings which I am sure are equally touched with my own for the distress of numbers in Virga, and as prompt to relieve them as any person on Earth and I am satisfied will do so as far as in your power consistent with the general welfare. 2 We have before us a proposition for sending on an aid of Militia from this State and Maryland but of all assistances these are the worst and wod. avoid them if there was a prospect of more effectual support. 3 Supplies of Arms are gone on and geting ready to go on but these have been greatly delayed for want of money, the weight that defeats every exertion. Adieu. Yr. affhum. Servt. Jos. Jones RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See the preceding entry, note 1. 2 In his June 7 reply to Jones, Washington stressed that “powerful objections” prevented his return “for defence of that Country, where all my property and Connexion’s are,” and that the impending juncture with French troops in America compelled him to ensure “temporary evils” while preparing to act “on the great scale.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:178-79. 3 For this May 31 “proposition,” see Samuel Huntington to Certain States, June 2, 1781. Samuel Huntington to the States Sir, [June 1, 1781] I am directed to inform you That Congress have received un doubted intelligence, both from their Minister at the Court of Versailles, & the Minister of France in America by order of his Court That the Courts of Vienna & Petersburgh had offered their media tion to the belligerent powers for the re-establishment of peace. 1 That these overtures had been eagerly embraced on the part of G. Britain. That France had declined her full acceptation thereof untill the concurrence of her allies could be obtained for that purpose, at the same time observing, that should she again be pressed on this head, she would be obliged to enter into a previous plan of
