284 June 1, 1781 negotiation, conditionally for herself & Allies. That Spain had answered in such manner to the proposals of the mediating powers as to shew her eventual acceptance. (Thus are we likely to have obtruded upon us by the intervention of two such formidable powers, the hard necessity of acceeding to these overtures at a time when these states are in a less eligible situation to enter into negotiations for peace, than at any other period of the War.) The intervention of such formidable powers will undoubtedly prove an event the most favourable to these united states if by a great & timely exertion we sufficiently reduce the force of the enemy now operating in our country. But should languor & inaction subject us to the contempt of the negotiators all the consequences will be chargeable upon ourselves. 2 This is a conjuncture that calls for the most serious consideration of these states. {It is therefore become a question whether we are determined to support this union upon the true principles of the confederation, by rejecting every idea of a diminution or not. If the first is to obtain, Congress are decided in their opinion that there is not a) Congress have not a doubt in their minds but that each State in the Union is determined to support the Confederacy that has been so solemnly entered into, through every difficulty, & hand it down unimpaired to their posterity. Under these impressions Congress can with confidence call on their Con stituents for such exertions as are proportionate to the truely critical situation of our affairs. The plan of operations for the present campaign having been preconcerted on the principle of obliging the enemy to abandon their posessions in every part of these states; therefore 3 an unequivocal complyance with the demands heretofore made by Congress for provisions, men, and money, are what we have at present to ask for. Should these means be expeditiously and punctually put into our hands, we have the most pleasing prospect of putting a speedy & happy issue to the war; by driving the enemy from their present possessions in every part of these states; but at all events, to confine them to the Sea coasts; in order to give as little room as possible to the enemy’s claim of uti possidetis, which will undoubtedly be most strenuously insisted on by them in the course of the negotiation—a claim totally inadmissible on our part. Of course, then, nothing should be left unessayed by these states, to prevent the embarrassments that such a claim must inevitably produce. Of consequence it is become indispensibly necessary, by our immediate—& under Providence—successful efforts, to place ourselves in such a situation, as to enable our negotiators to speak a firm & decided language, becoming the Characters of the Ministers of Free, Sovereign, & Independent States. We conclude with observ ing, that from the foregoing communications we are so thoroughly convinced of the most strenuous exertions of every State in the Union to accomplish the great objects herein pointed out, that
