June 2, 1781 285 Congress, will immediately proceed to carry into full execution their plans adopted for defeating the ambitious views of our enemy: & be prepared, to accept of peace upon no other terms, than the Independence of the thirteen United States of America in all their parts. 4 By order of Congress Sam. Huntington President 5 MS (DNA: PCC, item 25). In the hand of John Mathews and Charles Thomson. 1 For the adoption of this letter, which was drafted in response to a May 26 "Memoire" to Congress from La Luzerne announcing receipt of a mediation offer from Austria and Russia, see JCC, 20:585-87; PCC, item 25, 1:209-11, item 95, 1:226-33; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:440-47. See also James Lovell to Samuel Adams, May 22, note 3; and William Sharpe to Nathanael Greene, May 28, 1781, note 3. 2 This paragraph to this point is in the hand of Charles Thomson. 3 This sentence to this point in Thomson’s hand. 4 For Huntington’s belated admonition that the contents of this letter were to be kept secret, see Huntington to the States, June 2, 1781. The president also sent copies of these letters to the commander in chief the following day, for which see Huntington to Washington, June 3, 1781, note 3. 5 Added by Huntington upon transmission to the states. Samuel Huntington to Certain States Sir, Philada June 2. 1781 Your Excellency will receive enclosed, an Act of Congress of the 31st Ulto, earnestly recommending to the Commonwealth of Penn sylvania, immediately to raise & equip for the Field, four Battailions of Infantry, a Company of Artillery & a Corps of Horse. By the same Act, Delaware & Maryland are also requested immediately to raise & equip for the Field a Number of Troops. 1 Since passing this Act, Intelligence received of the Progress of the Enemy in Virginia, and the distressed Situation of a Sister State, the great Inferiority of our Continental Troops in Virginia under the Command of the Marquis de la Fayette, render the reinforcements requested more pressing and necessary, and require the greatest Exertions to hasten them forward. It is earnestly wished & hoped, under present Circumstances, Volunteers will offer themselves without the least Delay, and join our Troops in such Numbers as immediately to check the Progress of the Enemy, and effectually repel them in due Time. I have the Honor to be, &c &c S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “To President Reed. N.B. A Letter of the same Tenor of the above, to the States of Delaware & Maryland, requesting them to raise & equip a certain Number of Troops mentioned in the Act of the 31st of May.”
