June 3, 1781 287 LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 See Huntington to the States, June 1, 1781. 2 For the adoption of this prohibition, see JCC, 20:588. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia June 2. 1781 By the enclosed Order of Congress of the 29th Ulto, I am directed to lay before your Excellency the Letter of the 9th Ulto signed A. Fowler &c with the other Papers referred to, which are herewith enclosed. 1 Col. Broadhead is now in this City. The Complaints of the Inhabitants in the Vicinity of Pittsburgh respecting his Conduct are very great, and his with Respect to them are not small. It seems necessary that due Enquiry be speedily made respecting those Matters and in such Manner as that Justice may be done. 2 I have the Honor to be, with very great Regard, Your Excellency’s Most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See JCC, 20:571-72. The enclosed May 9 letter from Alexander Fowler, Robert Campbell, John Irwin, Thomas Smallman, Devereux Smith, and Edward Ward, and “April ” deposition of David Tait are in the Washington Papers, DLC. 2 For the background of the campaign to oust Col. Daniel Brodhead from the command at Fort Pitt, see Huntington to Washington, April 20, 1781, note 1. For additional documents related to the case, see Huntington’s second letter to Washing ton of June 6, 1781. Theodorick Bland to Thomas Jefferson Sr. Philadelphia June 3d 1781 The letter from the delegation to yr. Excellency 1 will apprize you of the Situation of Public affairs at this time, and of our endeavors to promote every thing that can give energy to the operations of the Army in defence of our distressed Country. I shd. not therefore have troubled yr. Excellency with the perusal of this which relates to myself, did not my own peculiar Situation render it necessary & had I not reason to conjecture from the several late ineffectual applica tions I have been driven through dire necessity to make, that my letters may have miscarried. 2 I can hardly suppose them to have passed unnoticed. The long expected and long wishd for remittance which was to have come through the hands of Mr. Braxton has afforded us no relief & has evaporated into smoke. 3 My Finances are as well as my Credit entirely exhausted, my Private resources in Virginia Cut
