June 4, 1781 297 The Empress of Russia and Emperor of Germany have offered their mediation between the beligerent powers which has been accepted with an aparent eagerness by the Court of London. France has answered that it is personally agreeable to him; but that he has allies which must be consulted before he can conveniently give a definitive answer. The answer of Spain has been somewhat equivo cal, but the measure will doubtless be infinitely agreeable to him. Mr. Cumberland has failed in his object, that of inducing Spain to a seperate peace. The most vigorous exertions on our part are indispensibly necessary in order to expel the enemy or at least to confine them to their strong holds. The enemy will strenuously insist on the proposition of Uti possidatis which is held up by our Ally as totally inadmissable. The Northern army are preparing to attack New York. I forbear making any observations on the propriety of this measure. There are some appearances of the enemys evacuating that post. There are about 7000 of the enemys troops now in Virginia. The Marquis with 900 and Genl. Wayne with 850 regulars to oppose them. We have called upon Pennsylvania for 2000 Militia to be equipped & Marched immediately, Delaware 500, Maryland 1200, to serve to the southward. The legislature is now met here and appears a little more engaged to support the southern states than formerly. We wish to be relieved; but as the circumstances of our State are so distressing, we have resolved, not to leave the State unrepre sented. Mr. Johnston has written to Mr. Willie Jones and Genl. Caswell. I have written to Colo. Martin. 1 Please to communicate these things to such of our other friends as you may think proper. I could not have written so freely, but expect this to go by some confidential person whom the President will send with some communications to the Executive of our State. [I] long to hear again from Genl. Greene. With great esteem & respect I am, Sir, Your Most Obt. Humble Servt. Wm. Sharpe N.B. In all our letters from Europe there is not a word of Englands sending a reinforcement to Genl. Clinton. RC (NcU: Burke Papers). 1 These letters have not been found.
