June 5, 1781 299 will be too late even for a finger to be put into the Pye, indeed my friend it will turn out as we ever expected, that if there is a peace we shall have very little to say to the Terms of it therefore I wish our State would Stop the Sales of British & Refugee property for at least a Month or two ’till the scene opens a little wider, We can do as some other States do, rub on without it; and however Congress may have spurned at the idea, when Mr. Adams desired instructions on this head, they will I believe now reverse their tone. 5 The King of Great Britain told you by his Commissioners That he would sooner part with his Crown than give up those who had sought his protection, and his obstinacy is unparralelled. Mr. Carroll and I thought of recommending this Subject to the consideration of the General Assembly immediately after the Ministers laid his Memorial before Congress; but upon reflection finding that we were not at liberty to give our reasons for the adopting the measure we agreed to Postpone our interference till we were, concluding that not much would in this respect be done in the mean time. My friend, the French are powerful in the West Indias, perhaps they will Conquer Clinton there, but whilst the Grass grows the Steed Starves. I shall enquire for the Map & Pamphlet you mention. I am with my compliments to Mrs. Hall. Dr Sir Your affectionate friend, Daniel of St Thos Jenifer RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 In his letter of June 1, Hall had evidently enclosed the May 24 and 31 issues of Frederick and Samuel Green’s Maryland Gazette, each of which contained a letter written by Samuel Chase under the pseudonym “Censor” attacking the Maryland senate for the devaluation of the state currency in the wake of the congressional fiscal resolves of March 18, 1780. Since efforts to redeem old bills at the rate of 40 to 1 had been sabotaged by a senate party which had “violated our public faith, and fomented quarrels and divisions,” Chase charged, “we must change our measures, and our rulers, or this country will be undone.” Trying to influence voters in anticipation of the September elections, he broadened his attacks on Senate policy in the June 7 and 21 issues of the Gazette. Chase was soon joined in debate through the summer and fall by various pseudonymous authors and was finally challenged directly by Charles Carroll of Carrollton, especially on the charge that Chase had speculated in flour in 1778 by taking advantage of secret congressional information. See these Letters, 10:626-28, 12:520-22; and James Haw, et al., Stormy Patriot: The Life of Samuel Chase (Baltimore: Maryland Historical Society, 1980), pp. 114-15. See also Jenifer to Hall, June 11, note 1, and July 24, 1781. 2 For Thomas Sim Lee’s promise of financial relief “as soon as possible,” see Maryland Delegates to Lee, May 30, 1781, note 2. 3 Not found. 4 That is, Thomas Johnson, Thomas Stone, and either Charles Carroll of Carrollton or Charles Carroll, Barrister. 5 For the congressional resolutions respecting “British & Refugee property” that were adopted the preceding October in response to inquiries from John Adams, see /CC, 18:948-50.
