300 June 5, 1781 Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to William Smallwood Dear General Philadelphia June 5th. 1781. You will perceive by the papers, that the Belligerent powers under the Mediation of the Empress of Russia and Emperor of Germany are about holding a Congress, and I fear that our Interests will not be so immediately attended to as we might wish: however, I think France must procure us tolerable terms, or She cannot expect to keep us long in her interest, therefore I trust more to her policy than her Justice. She is powerful in the West Indias, & from present appearances could do everything with apparent success, but that of taking Castles, & this She is attempting—strange infatuation. I wish with all my heart that the Marquis may be able to check Cornwallis. If he should March through St[r]atford & Prince Wil liam to Alexandria, I think the Marquis will have charming defensive Ground to make Stands upon. The Board of War has promised to have ready in 7 days 1500 Stand of arms for our State, Greyson is indefatigable. I expect that the Pennsylva. Assembly now sitting will empower their executive, to send forward immediately four Battallions of Militia to the assistance of Maryland or Virginia as the situation of the Enemy may require. I wish our State had delayed the Selling of British property a little longer, it would perhaps have been to her advantage to have done so; I do not care to enter in to particular reasoning at this time on the Subject, because it may be thought that I am influenced by former prejudices, and that wiser heads have determined otherwise; but rest assured that I have greater reason to be of this opinion now than I ever had. I wish you health and happiness and am very truely, Your Affectionate friend, Daniel of St Thos. Jenifer RC (PPAmP: Weedon Papers). Tr (MH-H: Sparks Transcripts). Tr captioned: "From Dani of St. Thomas Jenifer to General Smallwood, Maryland.” Samuel Livermore to Meshech Weare Dear Sir, Philada. June 5. 1781. I do myself the honour to enclose you the papers which will give you the news of the day. Some part of it looks well. But the Brittish gain upon us in Virginia. Pensylvania, Maryland & Delaware militia are raising (too slow) to meet them. The eastern Post not arrived makes us apprehensive for its safety. 1 Genl Sullivan is well, with whom I am very intimate. Please to let me hear from you especially on the subject of supporting your Delegates. I am Dear Sir your most obedt servant. Samuel Livermore
