June 12, 1781 313 William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir, Philada. 12 June 1781. I have nothing in particular to add to inclosed Intelligence, except that Circumstances reported by a Flag from Charlestown indicate that Lord Rawdon and the Garrison of Camden have probably arrived at the first-mentioned Place, or in the Neighbourhood of it. It is not probable that General Greene will bend his Course towards Charlestown, but in another Direction. An Attack upon the Town would promise little Success. The Operations described in the General’s Despatches have put him in Possession of the Carolinas, except Charlestown and Wilmington, with one other Post of no very great Consequence. In the mean Time, Lord Cornwallis is making rapid Progress in Virginia. [That] State seems now to be in the way of suffering exceedin[gly] and it is very unfortunate that it [is] not in the Power of Congress or the General to give them any other immediate Aid than some Reinforcements of Militia. I do myself the Honour to hand your Excellency a rough Draught 1 of that Part of the Country which is now the Seat of General Greene’s Operations. It is sufficiently exact to give an Idea of the general and comparative Situations of the several Places most comonly mentioned. You will please to communicate it to the Legislature or such as may be anxious to examine it. I have the Honour to be, Your Excellency’s obedt. hble Servt. W.C. Houston 2 RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). 1 Not identified. 2 Houston wrote a second brief letter to Livingston this day requesting a “Pass to the North River” for “Mrs. Arthur, wife of a Gentleman in the State of New York, and a Relation of the Family in which I lodge at Philadelphia.” William Livingston Papers, NN. Maryland Delegates to Thomas Sim Lee Sir, Philadelphia June 12th. 1781 We had the honor to receive your favor of 1 enclosing a resolve of the Genl. Assembly. The Board of War ordered Col. Wood the 26 Ulto. to remove the Convention Troops from Mary land & Virginia without delay, & we expected this information had been transmitted to you officially. 2 As it is intended we shall be supply’d with money from the proceeds of some of the flour directed to be sent to Delaware, &
