314 June 12, 1781 some part of it must lay convenient for Sale immediately, the dificulties we are under, urge us to request you will favor us with an order on the person charged with the disposal of it, & we flatter ourselves this will be done by next post, and to a sufficient amount to answer our purposes. 3 We have the honor to be with the greatest respect & esteem, Yr. Excellencys Most Obt & Humble Serts. Daniel of St Thos Jenifer Dani. Carroll RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Carroll and signed by Carroll and Jenifer. 1 Undoubtedly the Maryland Council’s first letter of June 2 to the delegates concerning the immediate removal of the Convention prisoners “from Fort Frederick to the Northward,” for which see Md. Archives, 45:457. For the Council’s second letter of June 2, see the following entry, note 1. 2 For directives concerning the removal of the Convention prisoners, see Samuel Huntington’s first letter to Washington of May 28, 1781, note 1. 3 For the delegates’ efforts to secure such funds, see Maryland Delegates to Lee, May 30, 1781, note 2; and Maryland Delegates to Lee, June 26, note 1. Maryland Delegates to Thomas Sim Lee Sir, Philada. June 12th. 1781 Your Excellencys Letters of the 2d & 4th Inst, came to hand last night. 1 If Arms are to be had in Philadelphia for Flour, or Tobacco, We shall endeaver to Contract for them on behalf of the State. We wish that you had mentioned the time and place of delivery of these Articles; essentials we apprehend necessary to be known before any person will engage to make a Contract with us. Had we experienced the most partial supply of Money, it would have been of Service. Perhaps the intended Scheme of raising Money from Tobacco may prove as abortive to us as that of Flour. We have been reduced to the humiliating circumstance of attempt ing to borrow without success. If the Tobo. That Mr. Key is to transport, lies on Potomack, We cannot hope for any relief from it, as we shall be under the necessity of decamping before he can get it to this place. Congress hitherto, has refused to allow the Shipping of Flour for the purpose of paying Debts contracted by our officers at New York. The Board of War have wrote to the General to inform them if Clinton will allow us to Ship Tobacco for that purpose. 2 As soon as they receive an Answer we shall transmit to you the result. We are with the highest esteem and respect, Sir, Your Excellencys most Obedient and most humble Servants, Daniel of St Thos Jenifer Dani. Carroll
