June 13, 1781 PS. Be pleased to forward the inclosed. 3 315 RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Jenifer and signed by Jenifer and Carroll. 1 For the Maryland Council’s second letter of June 2 concerning the purchase of arms from Philadelphia merchants for flour or tobacco, and its June 4 letter regarding the shipment of tobacco to be sold for the support of the state’s delegates in Philadelphia, see Md. Archives, 45:458, 461. 2 See Maryland Delegates to Lee, May 19, 1781, note. 3 Not identified. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir, Philada. 13 June 1781. The Bearer of this, a Mr Storer, has applied to me for Informa tion whether any Resolution of Congress exists which may counter act his request of a Comission for an armed Boat to cruize against the Enemy. I do not know of any, and so have told him. I know there have been Instances in which the Crews of such Boats have abused the Confidence of a Commission, and have been guilty of very impolitick and even unjustifiable Acts of Depredation; but these Things might happen in the Case of any armed Vessel; and every Instance ought to stand upon it’s own Circumstances. Bonds are always taken when Commissions are granted, and Delinquents are punishable by Forfeiture of their Commissions or by being prose cuted upon their Securities. If there is any Resolution of Congress which apparently discourages a Thing of this Kind, probably it may refute sortaille Parties which make Excursions into the Enemies’ Lines merely for the Sake of indiscriminate Pillage contrary to the fair and honourable usages of War; but this I understand to be different from the Object of the Applicant on the present Occasion. This may also be in some Measure guarded against in the Bonds and Instructions, if they are not already sufficiently explicit. I suppose your Excellency is supplied with Commissions, Bonds and Instructions from the Offices here; and I will observe to you that the Ratification of the Articles of Confederation, enlarges the Power of the respective States in these Matters, as you will find by consulting the 6th Article. If therefore the Person who solicits will come under proper Restrictions, and give adequate Security, I do not think your Excellency in Danger of counteracting any Resolu tion of Congress in granting his Request. 1 I am, with due Respect, Your Excellency’s most obedt and most humble Servt. W.C. Houston
