316 June 13, 1781 RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). 1 Houston had additional thoughts on this subject almost immediately, and accordingly returned to it the following day. See Houston to Livingston, June 14, 1781. Richard Howly to Horatio Gates Philadelphia June the 13th. 1781 I receiv’d, My Dear Genl., your favour of the 3d and agree with you that the complexion of affairs in Virginia is truly embarassing. There must be powerful aid afforded to the army in that Quarter, but from whence they are to come I know not, as the whole of the allied force with considerable draughts of militia from New Hamp shire to Pensylvania Inclusive, are to be employed in the Siege of New York. Genl. Washington intends to begin that operation on the first of July. We have had no knowledge of Sir Henry Clinton’s being in Virginia, and letters reed, yesterday from the commander in chief take no notice of that matter. This State, Delaware & Maryland have been called on by congress, for Eight battailions of militia—the first for four, the second for One and the last for three batts, for the Service of Virginia. I have my doubts whether the compliance will be as immediate or effectual, as we could wish. Your letter to Congress was debated two mornings—on various grounds. It produced a Resolve to Genl. W to take every immediate Step to accelerate the court of inquiry. A letter yesterday from the Genl, takes notice of your’s to him and of the Resolve—and the satisfaction he would find in doing everything in his power to have the matter effected. 1 As Mr. Morris did no[t] go to head Quarters, the matter of information you desired cannot be transmitted you. I have no doubt, but he will correspond entirely with your wishes, when he has the opportunity of communication. We have had a great run of Success in South Carolina & Georgia. I believe the two towns of Savannah & Chs. town excepted—they have lost the whole of both States. I think the expedition to Canada a measure necesary to be pursued—and must be adopted—none can look forward to the command in that department with so much Justice as you. 2 I will be constant in Writing to you by every proper opportunity. I will in my next, perhaps, have matters of great importance to communicate to you. Do not forget to Write to Congress and Genl. W . I wish you, My Dear Genl., much health and Spirits, and be assured that among your friends, none can be with greater passion for your fame, than yr. faithful & obedt. Servt. Richd. Howly
