June 13, 1781 317 RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 For Gates’ frustration over his inability to obtain exoneration from a court of inquiry for his conduct at Camden, see Samuel Huntington to Washington, April 26, note 3 and Huntington to Gates, May 22, 1781, note. In his June 6 letter to Congress, which was read “yesterday,” Washington had observed that while he wished that the “affair” could be quickly decided, Gates had informed him “that he cannot think of serving untill the matter shall have been properly investigated, and that he shall retire in the mean time to Virginia. I see no probability of any thing further being done untill there shall be some recess in southern operations.” JCC, 20:629; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:168. 2 For recent interest in an “expedition to Canada,” a project long favored by Gates and lately revived by John Sullivan, see Sullivan to Washington, May 2 and June 11, 1781. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry June 13th. [1781] Noon I have this moment yr. Letter of May 20 printed by Rivington as Mr. Gerrish’s. 1 I suppose that some Folks who were angried at the former Discovery will endeavor to make Harm out of these Transac tions between you & me. As Accident has brought the matter to their Knowledge they will chuse to conceive it to be what I wished to have concealed. I am quite indifferent. I have more Reasons than you hinted for believing old Delegates will be put aside. Plausible Arguments may be drawn from the Confederation. 2 But tho Connecticutt acted upon it in regard to Mr. Sherman, She has now again sent him. Genl. Ward might have been accomodated with hard Cash by yr. Treasurer, if he had been a Worshipper. He has been forced to put off his Paper at 4. I will be more particular as to the figured Business by Genl. Ward some Time this Week. 3 Yours Affly, JL RC (MHi: Gerry-Knight Collection). A continuation of Lovell to Gerry, June 5, 1781. 1 Gerry’s captured May 20 letter to Lovell was misattributed to “Mr. Gerrish” when it appeared in the June 9 issue of James Rivington’s New York Royal CMzette. For Lovell’s later apprehensions concerning the tone and wording of Gerry’s letter, see Lovell to Gerry, August 10, 1781, note 1. 2 Lovell was referring to article five of the Articles of Confederation which prohibited delegates of Congress from serving “more than three years in any term of six.” 3 Lovell apparently sent Gerry “the figured Business by Genl. Ward” the following day, for which see Lovell to Gerry, June 15, 1781.
