June 14, 1781 319 I have the Honor to be, with the highest Respect, Your Excel lency’s Most obedient & very humble Servant. Sam. Huntington Presidt. RC (MdAA: Red Books). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 The presidential letterbook copy of this letter is dated June 15. PCC, item 16, fol. 18. ^JCC, 20:635. For “the Act of 31st of May,” see Huntington to Certain States, June 2, 1781. 3 Huntington also sent a similar letter to Pennsylvania president Joseph Reed on June 15, asking the state “to compleat Colonel Moyland’s [Stephen Moylan’s] Legionary Corps to it’s full Compliment” as well as “to raise three Troops of Militia Cavalry...to serve in the southern Army three Months, or until relieved by the Arrival of Moyland’s Corps.” See JCC, 20:634-35; and PCC, item 16, fols. 15-16. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry Dear Sir June 14 [1781] I fear that yr. favorable Expressions respecting Col. Palfrey are founded on Stories circulated here some Time ago. We believe nothing favorable to him at this day. I am distressed for his amiable Family as well as sincerely afflicted at the Loss of him. He would have repaired our tattered Affairs in France and have raised a Character of Honesty & Ability in mercantile Transactions for the Public. I took up my Pen at first only to cover the inclosed. 1 JL RC (MHi: Gerry-Knight Collection). 1 Not found, but apparently the “figured Business” to be sent by Gen. Artemas Ward, who this day left Congress, which is mentioned at Lovell to Gerry, June 13, 1781, note 3. Thomas Rodney to Caesar Rodney Sir, Philadelphia, June 14, 1781 You will find by the contents of this, that it is a Confidential Letter, conveying you very important and pleasing intelligence. Congress has received a Letter from the King of France and are also otherwise officially informed by his minister here—That the Empress of Russia threw out an invitation for the Belligerent powers to apply for her Mediation at which the Court of London eagerly Caut and mentioned the emperor of Germany as another mediator and a Congress was proposed to be opened at Viena for the purpose of Settling a general Peace. The answer of the Court of France was that they Could Send no Plenipos. To said Congres Till they had Consulted their allies, but as the Mediators are such respectable
