June 14, 1781 321 Jefferson and leave Franklin out—which upon Georgias coming in, would have carried him; but I would not give up Franklin, and by the manner of proposing to appoint them both, got him ap pointed—though this was exceedingly against the grain of several members. He will now be put at the head of the commission. His abilities, character and influence are what will be of most use to us in Europe. J. Adams is not much liked at the F. Court. I shall say no more on this head Till I see you. I wish You May find an inclination to Come up to Wilmington as soon as the assembly rises. I have an expectation that the President of Congress & his Lady will spend a few days with us about that Time and he is very desirous to see you. Green has Taken Camden and Two other posts and we make no dobt but the Brittish have lost every post in Georgia & the Carolinas by this Time except Savannah, Charles Town and Wilmington. Green has had a rapid series of success. Pensylvania is Determined to be vigirous in giving effectual aid against Cornwallace and there is no doubt but Maryland will do the same. I hope our state will not be behind them, a bold push now obtains us every thing. We have no account of any reenforcements arrived yet to the Brittish from the other side the water. Mr. Morris is gitting our Finances into a better Train and all things now begin to favour us. I am, yr. Most Obedt. Thomas Rodney RC (DeHi: Rodney Papers). RC damaged; missing words supplied from Hezekiah Niles, Principles and Acts of the Revolution in America (Baltimore: William Ogden Niles, 1822), pp. 344-45. 1 Rodney’s account of the maneuvering that led to these appointments is the most detailed record of these proceedings that survives. Although the account preserved in Secretary Thomson’s secret journals conforms in outline to Rodney’s summary, it neither records the votes reported by him on several specific motions nor suggests the central role that he assigned himself in the proceedings, for which see also Rodney to Rodney, July 10, 1781, note 3. On June 9 Congress had rejected a motion to join “some persons...with the honourable John Adams in negotiating a treaty of peace,” but two days later voted to reconsider the proposal, deciding to add two plenipotentiaries. John Jay, John Laurens, Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, Joseph Reed, and William Carmi chael were thereupon nominated for the two positions. The following day the delegates were able to agree only upon Jay and postponed the selection of the second person. Congress then voted on June 14 to add “two more persons,” appointing Franklin, Jefferson, and Henry Laurens to join Adams and Jay. See JCC, 20:619, 627-28, 638, 648; and John Witherspoon’s Speech, June 9-11? 1781. Rodney had just recently resumed his seat in Congress, probably on June 12. Although he had written to Caesar from Wilmington on June 9 that “I expect to move toward Congress To Morrow,” he is not listed on the roll call votes of June 11. He is not mentioned in the journals between May 8 and June 14, but on the evidence of this letter seems to have had direct knowledge of the debates of June 12 and 13. See JCC, 20:487, 626-27, 648; and Rodney, Letters (Ryden), pp. 411-12.
