330 June 19, 1781 3 James Rivington’s “marginal Notes” were actually appended to Lovell’s letter of November 20, 1780, to John Hancock, which had also been captured and printed in the Royal Gazette, December 27, 1780. 4 That is, Samuel Adams and Elbridge Gerry. 5 That is, involved in debt or monetary liability, mortgaged. OED. 6 Paraphrased from Abigail Adams’ May 13 letter to Lovell. Adams, Family Corre spondence (Butterfield), 4:112. 7 That is, Abigail Adams’ March 17 letter to Lovell. Ibid., pp. 91-92. 8 See Lovell to Abigail Adams, April 23, 1781. 9 That is, “17.” Theodorick Bland To George Washington Sr Philadelphia June 19th 1781 I was honord with your Excellency’s favor enclosing a letter for the Govr of Virginia 1 which was immediately put into the hands of the President to be forwarded by an express that was to be dispatched the next day. We have not had any very late official accounts from the Army or the Executive of our State; but from private intelligence we are informed that the British Cavalry has under the Command of Tarleton made a very rapid and bold push up to Charlotteville where the Legislature and executive were assembled the whole of whom were dispersed, 2 and not less than eight of the Members of the assembly taken by the Enemy, among whom our advices say is Col. Jno. Simm of Hanover—it is also said by an officer from Genl. Greenes army who passd thru Virginia and has been in Charlotteville since the above mentiond affair, that Some Arms, and a Small Quy. of Powder fell into the hands of the Enemy, as did also the Printing Press. I imagine the Assembly must before this time have assembled at Stanton, and tis to be hoped that experience will teach them to be better guarded against an event so disgracefull, as well as so prejudicial in its consequences. Private letters also mention that Ld. Cornwallis was moving towards James River inclining upwards, tis supposed with an intention of making a stroke at our Stores & Magazines at the fork of James River, the Marquis is Said to be Seven thousand strong and is disposed to Battle; these Sr. are reports, but what Credit may be given to them I cannot say except to the event at Charlotteville which I believe may be relied on. I am with The Greatest respect Sr., Yr. Excelly’s Most obedt. Sevt. Theok. Bland RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Not identified. 2 For Lt. Col. Banastre Tarleton’s June 4 cavalry raid on Charlottesville, the dispersal of the Virginia assembly, and the last-minute escape of Governor Jefferson, see Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 4:164-65, 170n, 193-94; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:256-78.
