332 June 19, 1781 Samuel Livermore to Meshech Weare Dear sir Philadelphia June 19th 1781. I have drawn a sett of bills of this date on you for two hundred & sixty six dollers & two thirds of a doller in behalf of the state towards my subsistence in Congress in favour of Clement Biddle Esq. This gentleman wants his mony in Boston and I have engaged it shall be sent there. So I request the favour of you to send it by Mr. Noble the post if he presents the bills & pay the postage, or by any other safe conveyance you please. I should not give you this trouble, but I could not negotiate a bill on any other terms at this time, as no one here that I could meet with wants mony in Portsmth. I am Sir, Your most obedt. Humble servt. Samuel Livermore RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). Richard Potts to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir Philadelphia June 19. 1781 Long ’ere this I expected to have opened a Correspondence with you from this City, but Circumstances already communicated pre vented my earlier Attendance on Congress. 1 As our information, very imperfect, from the Southward passes through that State, nothing can be expected on that Subject, our prospects there are become more favorable and from the spirited and truly laudable Exertions of Maryland much may be hoped for if time is allowed for their Arrival. The french have a small Reinforcement arrived at Boston, a fifty Gun Ship, 2 frigates and some transports with Horses for their Army and between 12 & 1500 Men, 2 to counterbalance this, we have a report that a fleet supposed to be the Cork fleet was seen twelve days ago off Charles Town, if true a Reverse of fortune must take Place in that State. The great Business is over in a manner I beleive consistent with the voice of our State—the particulars are not to be communicated. For your Amusement I inclose you the last Papers. Be pleased to make a Tender of my Compliments to Mrs. Lee and believe me with Sentiments of perfect Esteem, Yours very affecly, R Potts [PS.] 1000 Arms will be sent off in a few days to Maryland, 3 they were like those sent to the Eastern Shore, but with Alterations & Repairs are rendered very good. RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 For Potts “Attendance,” see Daniel Carroll to Lee, June 12, 1781, note 1. 2 For the arrival in Boston in early June of the small French reinforcement escorted by the 50-gun Sagittaire, see Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 4:202-4; and Lee B. Kennett,
