June 20, 1781 335 hath refused to exchange Genl. Burgoyne, or whether the carrying this Resolve into Execution will embarrass any measures you may have in contemblation respecting a general exchange of prisoners/ This information is necessary before the orders for exchanging President Laurens are transmitted to Europe. I have the honour to be, with perfect Respect, Your Excys. humble Servt. Sam. Huntington Presidt. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See JCC, 20:656. This May 24 petition from Gen. Jacob Bayley and 12 associates on the Vermont frontier, seeking protection and recommending an invasion of Canada, is in the Washington Papers, DLC. A duplicate of the petition, addressed directly to General Washington, is also in the collection. In his June 28 reply to Huntington, Washington responded that an expedition into Canada was utterly impracticable.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:278. 2 For Congress’ interest in obtaining the exchange of Henry Laurens for Gen. John Burgoyne, see JCC, 20:647-48; and Huntington to Washington, April 23, 1781. Responding to Huntington on June 28, Washington explained that Clinton had heretofore placed conditions on any exchange of General Burgoyne “in the Military Line,” but that there was “nothing at present...to prevent a Proposition being made by Congress for the Exchange of Mr Laurens for Genl Burgoyne, in the Mode mentioned.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:278. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to Benjamin Franklin Dear Sir, Philadelpa. June 20th 1781 I must beg the favor of your Excelly to forward the enclosed Letter to London. The Father of Mr. Lowndes who wrote it, is a worthy Citizen, and very desirous of seeing his Son in America before the 1st of March 1782, the time limited by a Law of the State of Maryland for the return of absentees in the British Dominions, under penalty of forfeiting to the State their property. 1 I suppose the Special appointment of Col Laurens to the Court of Verseilles, was a measure that you could not have suspected would have been adopted by Congress. Your having negotiated the busi ness for which he was sent before his arrival, proved, that his errand was unnecessary. Public bodies in all Countries, and more especially in this New World are too apt to take up, and determine hastily upon Subjects of the greatest consequence. I was absent when that Gentleman was ballotted for; and however the Magot may have bit on that occasion, I can assure you that Congress have the greatest reliance on your abilities, integrity and address, in so much, that it is with pleasure that I can inform you, in the late choice of Ministers to Negotiate a peace you were unanimously elected. 2
