338 June 20, 1781 them, whilst the Soldiers they have hired at a very great expence lay Idle—in short my dr. Sr. his Conduct does great mischief and will do more if he is not recalled, and I think it behoves you to bring it about. I assure you it is the wish and desire of every Man that this event shod, take place; I believe him a good officer on the Parade but the worst in every other respect in the American Army. I like the Marquis much and so does every Body in the Country but is he not too young for such a command as he has, and of such great consequence to the American Cause and this great Country—would not St. Clair think you from his experience be usefull here. “We have now no Executive in the State for want of a Senate the Govr. will act no more, and the remainder of the Council will not get together. I hope we shall set these matters right next week.” A Copy of a Letter from the Marqs. of the 3d inst. to Genl. Greene^ intimates that he was ignorant till lately that Genl. Greene had ordered these levies to act in Virga, but it does not appear he had orders from Genl. Greene upon the subject as he complains in the Letter that he had not heard from him for some time. Perhaps your interposition may be necessary upon this business to prevent misunderstanding. How far Col. H.’s opinion abt. the Baron re quires your interference You will judge. I had heard some com plaints of that Gentn. before I left the State but attributed them to his being long in the Milatary line, unacquainted with the civil institutions and disgusted that his requisitions were not immediately complied with, rather than any other quality—however if he has disgusted the people prudence requires he shod, not be detached, but subject to the controul of some superior officer or recalled. These matters you will direct as you shall see best for the Service. Could not Genl. Greene be well spared from the South to take the Command in Virga. The great scene of action is there, and as you cannot be present, his Abilities and experience may be very usefull. Excuse the haste of this Letter wch. I have been obliged to write in Congress and believe me with perfect esteem, D Sr., Yr. aff Friend & Sevt. Jos. Jones. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Jones to Washington, May 31, 1781, note 2. 2 While Richard Henry Lee’s letter to the Virginia delegates has not been found, his June 12 letters to Washington and to James Lovell appealing for Washington’s presence in the south are in Lee, Letters (Ballagh), 2:233-38. Lee also enclosed in his letter to Washington a copy of his letter to Lovell, both of which are in the Washington Papers, DLC. 3 For which see Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 4:162-65.
