June 21, 1781 341 I would enter into detail on a variety of subjects, if I had any doubt that you will see Govr. Rutledge, who is minutely acquainted with every circumstance of our affairs civil as well as military and from whom you will have much more information than can be communicated by a letter. Your sufferings and perseverance as well as that of your officers and privates in the defence of the Southern States in particular, demand the gratitude of every individual and makes a deep impression on the heart of him who has the honor to be, With perfect respect and esteem, my dear general, Your most Obt. Humble Servt. Wm. Sharpe RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Meriwether Smith to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir, Philadelphia, June 21st. 1781. Congress having received some important Communications from the Minister plenipotentiary of France respecting the Intentions of the Courts of Petersburgh & Vienna, have come to some Determina tions thereupon which are not only interesting to the united States in general, but to the State of Virginia in particular; I took the Liberty therefore to insist that you should be added to the Ministers of these States already in Europe, that the State of Virginia particu larly & the united States in general might have the Benefit of your abilities in a Negociation that may probably take place. I am not at Liberty to communicate to you explicitly by a Letter, the Objects that will require your attention, or the Nature of the Restrictions by which you will be bound. You will therefore not be able to determine whether the Embassy will be agreeable 8c honourable', but, I am confident that you cannot fail of rendering very essential Services to the State by your intimate Knowledge of its Interests; and I am persuaded that it can only be requisite to suggest to you that the Business will be very important and your Usefulness in negociating it very great, to induce you to accept the Appointment. 1 Exertion 8c Unanimity are now more than ever requisite in the State of Virginia. Assistance will come but slowly; but I beseech you to avoid Despair. It can only produce Divisions which will encrease your Distresses without procuring for you one valuable End. This State and some others in the union, enjoy most of the Blessings of Peace; and, attentive to other objects more pleasing, they are not willing to behold the Distresses of Virginia. Congress is so destitute of Money 8c consequently of Power, that if there was the most cordial Disposition to give immediate 8c effectual assistance to the State, it is not practicable. I have no Doubts however, but that the Campaign
