342 June 21, 1781 will end favourably for us, and it is not improbable that it may be the last. This latter Circumstance will depend greatly upon the firmness & Exertions of Virginia; as the Influence of the mediating Powers in Europe will probably be exerted in our favour [in proportion to our Success. At all Events, it [will be] very important for us to deprive Britain of an Alliance which her Successes in America may encour age. My Situation here is really distressful, I have not had any authentic Intelligence concerning my family & Estate since the month of April, having designed to leave this City on the first of May, which prevented any Letters from being written to me, if the Communication had not otherwise been cut off. I am the more distressed because my funds will not enable me either to stay or to go from hence. 2 However the Virginia Delegates are not the only suffering Delegates here, & they must submit to the Hardship of the Times. I hope it will not be of long continuance; and [be] assured that while I do remain here, I shall not neglect to try every Expedient which may promise any Relief to the State. I am Dr. Sir, yr. most obedt. & hble Servt. M. Smith RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:99-100. 1 For Jefferson’s delayed refusal of “the Appointment,” see Samuel Huntington to Jefferson, June 15, 1781, note 2. 2 For Smith’s eventual departure in early September, see Virginia Delegates to Thomas Nelson, August 21, 1781, note 2. Richard Howly to John Laurens Dear Sir, Philadelphia June the 22d. 1781. It gave me much Satisfaction to hear of your safe arrival in France, and that you had proceeded on the business of your embassy—the letters of March the 20th in cyphers came Safe 1 —and your mode of executing was agreeable to congress. I wish you may Succeed in the great point, of the naval Superiority. This alone can enable us to wage an equal war with the foes of our independence. The interests of France and these States are so united, that any unnecessary delay in establishing the independence of the latter is a real detriment to both. We have appointed five commissioners to manage the business which had been entrusted heretofore to Mr. Adams—your father is one of the member—Doctor Franklin, Mr. Jay and Governor Jefferson—are also joined in the Commission. We have passed a resolve authorising our plenipotentiary to offer Genl. Burgoine in Exchange for your father and hope it will prove Successful 2 —as his Services will be much wanted. Should the mediating powers be in Earnest to terminate the disputes among the beligerent powers, I
