June 23, 1781 343 can give you no opinion for prudential reasons of matters here and have only to observe that perseverance in pushing the great object of a naval force is all that can be expected and I can assure you that the Scattered form of the british in America, would render them an Easy conquest at this time. Genl. Greene has had a great Tun [Run?] of Success in the Carolina’s and Georgia. I believe the british are now confined to the two towns of Charlestown and Savannah—Virginia is feeling the force of the british. The Marquis our excellent young Genl, com mands there—every hour we expect to hear of an action—the british are between six and Seven thousand strong in that Quarter. Mr. Price, by whom I send this letter is a Gentleman of much Worth and merit and will be able to communicate all the intelligence you desire—his private affairs lead him to France. 3 He rendered much services to the States in the time of the Canada Expeditions you will find him worthy of your Esteem. I have the Honor to be Dr. Sir, yr. most humble & obedt. Servant. Richd. Howly Tr (Archives du Ministere des affaires etrangeres: Correspondance politique, Etats- Unis, vol. 17). 1 Laurens’ March 20 cipher letter to Congress, enclosing a copy of his memorial to the comte de Vergennes and a list of military items requested from France, had been read in Congress on May 30 and referred to the committee appointed to confer with the French minister. See JCC, 20:577; Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:317-21; and PCC, item 109, fols. 417-52. 2 For the proposed Burgoyne-Henry Laurens exchange, see Samuel Huntington to Washington, June 20, 1781, note 2. 3 For James Price’s June 16 letter, read on the 18th, informing Congress of his “intention to embark for France in four or five days” and offering his services to Congress “on all occasions” while abroad, see JCC, 20:658; and PCC, item 78, 18:403. Samuel Huntington to Bernardo de Galvez Sir. Philadelphia 23rd June, 1781 Mr. Henderson, who has the honor of presenting this to your Excellency, finds himself obliged to depart within the hour or lose his Passage on a Ship for Havana, which prevents me from giving you the Answers that I would wish to your several Letters, 1 for they are in the Office of the Secretary, and it is not possible for me to obtain them at this moment. Mr. Henderson has been most diligent, loyal, and solicitous in carrying out the matter committed to his Charge and has secured the settlement of the Account, in the particulars of which he has been instructed to inform you. 2 I only lament the State of our Public Treasury, due to the circumstances of a Cruel and inhuman War that works against us, in such a manner, as to make it impossible for
