346 June 23, 1781 fleet, the remainder are supposed to have gone to the West Indies or come to Virginia. The Alliance is arrived at Boston having taken several prizes. The Ship Marquis De la Fayette is likewise said to have arrived in one of the Eastern ports with Arms and Cloathing but this last wants confirmation. We have Letters from Paris as late as the fourth of April but they contain nothing of an interesting Nature. Some intercepted letters make it evident that the British have suffered very considerably in the East Indies from an Army of the Asiaticks under the command of a very enterprizing prince, whose Name I do not recollect, in the French Interest. I have heard that our Assembly was to meet the 15th Instant and not doubting but the Delegates are by this time ready to set off for this place, I shall turn my face homeward as soon as compleated a little business of considerable importance to our State. 3 My Comple ments to all our friends. I wish I had some good news to write, I hope to be able to tell them some when I return. In the mean time believe me with the most Sincere Regard & Esteem, Dear sir, Yours, P.S. The Assembly adjourned yesterday after passing a Law for compleating their Quota of Troops which it is thought will be effectually executed. They have very Judiciously put their funds under the Direction of your friend R. Morris which will have a very happy effect on their Credit. I consider myself as particularly unfortunate in not having been able to cultivate an Acquaintance with that Gentleman, owing partly to my indisposition and in some measure to my ignorance of the Etiquette of this place. There is no confirmation of the Report respecting the Arrival of the Ship Fayette has not yet taken place and I fear she is lost. June 27th. 4 RC (Nc-Ar: Burke Papers). In Johnston’s hand, though not signed. Endorsed: “Private, From honble Sam Johnston, June 23d 1781, reed. July 30, 1781.” 'Johnston originally wrote “25th” over which he wrote “23” without altering the “th.” 2 That is, the Pennsylvania assembly. 3 For Johnston's departure from Philadelphia, see William Sharpe to Burke, July 28, 1781, note 1. 4 Presumably the date the postscript was written. Thomas Rodney to William Killen Dr. Sir 1 Philada. June 23d. 1781. Verry few Opertunities to Dover have Offered since I came up to Congress so that probably you have been but indifferently supplied with news. It has been some time since we have had any officially here, either from the Eastward or Southward. The last Eastern mail was Taken by the enemy, the week before last, with the general
