June 23, 1781 347 Rochambeaus dispaches, but no others of any importance, and his were in such Cypher as the enemy could not Decypher. By an Officer who the Genl, sent express since we had an Account of the arrival of a fifty Gun ship, Two Frigates and Two flutes with 12 Transports and 1500 men, to reunit the Fleet and Army at Rhode Island—by which the French Fleet will be Equal if not Superior to the Brittish, so that it may be expected that the operations against New York will Commence as soon as the Commander in Chief Can be prepaired—but he has not yet a sufficient Stock of provisions, however we hope this impediment will soon be removed. The last accounts from Virginia inform that Cornwallace was bending his Course toward the head of James River to Distroy our Stores there which were Guarded by the Barron Stuben & about 800 Malitia— That Lesly was gone to Potomack with about a 1000 Men—That Genl. Wain had joined the Marquis—That with there regulars and about 3000 Malitia they were moving after Cornwallace with Inten tion to give him Battle, That the western Malitia were joining Our Troops very fast—That Genl. Smallwood with 500 Regulars and a 1000 Malitia was on his march from Maryland to Join the Marquis. The last accounts from Genl. Green Left him Carrying on his regular approaches against Ninety Six, while Pickens and Lee were at Augusta and we have good reason to hope these posts are in Our possession before now for the Refugees are many of them flying from Charles Town to Virginia being alarmed at Greens success. The Pensylvania assembly is now on the Subject of Giving all the Aid in there power to Virginia but I fear the desention that prevails in this State will greatly impede even their best endeavours. Great part of the people are daily abusing Government for being too severe and great part of them Equally abusing it for being too Lenient, so that you may easily see wha,t difficulties lay in there way. I am very Anxious to hear that our Assembly have reformed their Malitia Law and done every thing else in their power to put the state in the best possible posture of defence for If our army in Virginia should be unfortunate a strong Detachment of the Enemy may be Expected to Cross the Bay. The Maryland assembly have increased their Malitia on duty to Two thousand—and I think it would have been well in Delaware to have adopted a similar plan. These Malitia are in pay every day they Exercised 2 and are liable to be imbodied whenever called for. But it was unfortunate that our assembly sett at Lewis quite out of the way of intelligence. I have not had a line from them nor had an opertunity of writing to them since they met. I very much fear they have not been sufficiently informed to do what was necessary at the present Crisis, and harvest drawing near has probably hurried them home sooner than I would wish as the present time requires particular and extraordinary exertions to Complete our Glorious struggle for Liberty. I am Sir, your Most Obedt. Thomas Rodney
