348 June 25, 1781 RC (DeHi: William Brown Collection). 'William Killen (1722-1805), Dover, Del., barrister, was chief justice and later chancellor of Delaware. 2 Rodney inserted an asterisk at this point, to which he keyed the following passage at the foot of the page. "You never will have a good Malitia till you lay an adequate fine on non attendance, and pay them that do attend for every day they exercise. If this principle was adopted you would soon find your Malitia what you wish—this is the principle adopted by the Swiss Cantons.” John Mathews to Nathanael Greene Dear sir, Philadelphia June 25th. 1781. The inclosed news papers will give you the current news of this quarter. For other particulars I refer you to Govr. Rutledge 1 who can say to you, all I can at this time, except such matters as I dare not communicate either to him or you. I hope his presence will be productive of all the good conse quences you expect. I am well persuaded many advantages will result from it, & if you can but be happy enough to maintain the ground you have with such infinite labour, & honor, gained from the enemy, that you will have the heart felt satisfaction of seeing your generous exertions crowned with as much success, as could possibly be expected, that is, order, & all the tranquillity that a state of war can admit of, restored to a grievously distressed country. I am My Dr. sir with the highest Esteem & Regard, Yr. most Obedt. servt. Jno. Mathews RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). 1 Gov. John Rutledge of South Carolina was preparing to leave Philadelphia following his second recent visit and appealed to the South Carolina delegates in a letter of June 27 to seek an exception to Congress’ stringent ordinance of March 27, 1781, on the capture of prizes by granting him passports for vessels carrying much-needed salt to North and South Carolina. "As I only wait to know their Determination,” urged Rutledge, “be pleased to obtain it, this Morning.” Congress acceded to Rutledge’s request the same day, granting him "four sets of permits” under strict conditions for their return to Congress. The governor apparently set out for South Carolina on June 28. See JCC, 19:314—16, 20:705—6; PCC, item 36, 1:201—2, item 177, fols. 10-11; and the “Letters of John Rutledge,” South Carolina Historical and Genealogical Magazine 18 (July 1917): 136n.l3. Pennsylvania Delegates’ Motion [June 25, 1781] 1 That Vanheer’s Corps called the Marechausie Corps be consid ered as part of the Quota of Troops to be furnished to the Army of the United States by the State of Pennsylvania.
