June 25, 1781 349 Tr (DLC: Washington Papers). Endorsed: “Motion of the delegates of Pennsylvania. June 25, 1781. Referred to the board of War.” 1 Although the journals indicate only that a motion by the Pennsylvania delegates was “referred to the Board of War” this date, it is clear from the board’s correspon dence with General Washington concerning Capt. Bartholomew Von Heer’s corps that this brief motion was the subject of Secretary Thomson’s journal entry of this date. It was enclosed with a June 26 letter from commissioner Richard Peters to Washington questioning the propriety of establishing the corps in the Pennsylvania Line because it was composed heavily of German deserters enlisted contrary to Continental policy. “I think you will find,” Washington replied on July 9, “by referring to the Returns which have been heretofore made, that Von Heers Corps have been considered as part of the quota of Pennsylvania. But it will be improper to permit them to count upon them any longer, because the term of their service expires in a very short time. It is true that several of them have been found to be deserters, but as they were inlisted within the State, they passed as part of their quota of it. This has been the case in all the States. These men or so many of them as have been credited to the state are justly intitled by their faithful services to have their depreciation made up in common with the other corps.” See JCC, 20:695; Richard Peters to Washington, June 26, 1781, Washington Papers, DLC; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:343-44. For additional documents concerning the pay and status of Von Heer’s corps, see also ibid., pp. 149-50, 372; JCC, 20:660; and PCC, item 78, 23:185-88, item 147, 5:337-44. George Clymer, Joseph Montgomery, and Thomas Smith were the Pennsylvania delegates attending Congress at this time. South Carolina Delegates to Timothy Pickering Sir, Philadelphia June 25th. 1781 The Delegates of South Carolina have received a letter from Mr. Drayton, who was appointed by Congress as Dy. Qr. Mr. Gl. for the Southern Department in Novr. 1778.' Mr. Drayton mentions the disagreeable situation in which he stands, by not having received any intimation of what has been done in the department since the new arrangement took place, particu larly on what footing he is to be considered, or whether he is to be considered as still in the service, or not. We should therefore be obliged to you, Sir, to satisfy Mr. Drayton on this head, & if a new appointment is necessary, that you would be pleased to make it, if his character is such a one as you approve of. Mr. Drayton was at the beginning of this revolution a gentleman of independent fortune, & one of the first families in So. Carolina. He has served in this department with reputation, & is as well qualified as any man we know for a continuance in it. If the department he formerly held should be filled up before you receive this, we could Wish him to be appointed for the state of So. Carolina. But we rather hope for his continuance in the first. 2 We are sir, Yr. most Obed, servts. Jno. Mathews Ns. Eveleigh Isaac Motte Tho. Bee
