June 26, 1781 351 As to Vermont I am sorry to see the distressed situation we are in by the policy of a few. The affair might have been settled a year ago, upon the plan I proposed. 2 But the rejecting that has irritated the people on the grants, on both sides of the river, and given our enemies the advantages they now possess. We have no delegate from New York as yet & Congress has been very thin ’till very lately: as soon as any thing can be done I shall do the utmost to bring matters to a settlement: But which way it will be settled I am at a loss. Your letter will be of great use, I am perswaded, in exciting the attention of our friends in congress. I shall accordingly shew it to a number of them. They must see that Rome or Carthage must be demolished. I am very strongly impressed with an idea that this dispute will never be settled but by dividing the territory between N York & us: but I have no authority to act on this plan. Genl. Sullivan has expresst the same sentiment to me lately. Should the whole be decreed to us they might be too powerfull under the influence of Mr Allen to obey the decree: Should they be divided that part that would fall to us wd. perhaps be easily reconciled. The Ship Franklin which arrived here from France last week had a very long passage, consequently brought no news. You will observe the Brittish & Tory news everywhere holds forth that America is to be excluded from the negotiations for peace; But depend on it the fact is otherwise. I am Dear sir Your most obedt. humble Servt. Samuel Livermore RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See Livermore to Weare, May 13, 19, and 22, June 5 and 19, 1781. 2 Livermore was referring to his role in early 1780 as New Hampshire’s special agent to Congress concerning the Vermont dispute. See Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett, February 8, note 2; and Livermore to Weare, March 14 and 21, 1780. James Lovell to Abigail Adams June 26. 1781 The Alliance may have brought you Letters: neither that nor the Franklin have given us any from Mr. Adams. Mr. Dana on the 4th of April resolved to go from Paris to Holland on the Sunday following. He mentions nothing of Mr. A but I send you a Scrap from the Hague which proves the Health of him & his, in a good Degree, March 4th. Any Thing to the contrary would have been mentioned by Mr. Dumas. 1 There is surely nothing of the Gallant, nothing which need hurt the fine toned Instrument in this Solicitude of mine to administer even the smallest Degree of Satisfaction to a Mind very susceptible of
