356 June 27, 1781 Samuel Huntington to John Paul Jones Si r> Philada June 27. 1781 I have the Pleasure to inform you that Congress have been pleased unanimously to appoint you to the Command of the Ship America, as you will see by the enclosed Copy of their Act of yesterday. 1 I am Sir &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 For Jones’ appointment to and acceptance of this command, seeJCC, 20:692, 698, 722; and PCC, item 168, 1:480. For instructions issued to him on July 2, 6, and August 4, 1781, which emanated from the office of Robert Morris, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 1:209, 243, 2:15-18; and the microfilm edition ofjohn Paul Jones Papers, ed. James C. Bradford, reel 6. Samuel Johnston to James Iredell Dear Sir. Philadelphia, June 27th, 1781. I was only yesterday favored with the letters which you were so obliging as to write me the 14th of April and 10th of May last. I have wrote to you frequently by casual opportunities, but cannot have any confidence of your having received my letters. I write by this opportunity to my brother, and must refer you to his letter and the enclosed newspaper for news. I am sorry people were in such haste to remove themselves and property from Edenton. I rather could have wished they had thought of defending it, which would have been attended with less risk and expense in my opinion, for till the conquest of Virginia is effected, which I flatter myself will not speedily take place, I scarcely think you will be molested with any considerable invasion, and if the plundering parties meet with opposition they will grow sick of the business. However, every one will and has a right to judge for himself on these occasions. So far as it respects me, I am perfectly satisfied, and shall ever consider myself under the highest obligations to you on this occasion for your friendly attention. I have been detained here longer than I expected from unavoidable circumstances, which I shall have the pleasure of communicating when I can see you. I hope to leave this place some day next week, 1 but as it will be necessary for me to take a pretty extensive circuit to avoid the enemy’s horse, and the weather being too warm for me to make long days’journeys at this season, I cannot form to myself any judgment respecting the time I shall arrive with you. I am truly sensible what anxiety and distress you must all have sustained in your alarming situation. I have often wished to have been with you on the occasion; indeed my mind has been so much in that country, that it has rendered me almost incapable of attending to any thing elsewhere. This will probably be a very important,
