June 28, 1781 357 though perhaps not a decisive campaign. I am not perfectly in formed of the plan on which it will be conducted on our part, nor is it proper that I should communicate so much as I do know to paper. Should a few fortunate events cast up in our favor, I hope there will be no more of it after this summer—if otherwise, God knows where it will end, for America can never submit. Pray remember me most affectionately to my sister and the children. I grow every day more impatient of being absent from my friends; and had I not believed my services, or rather my vote, essentially necessary here for some time past, no importunity should have detained me. Present my compliments to such as you may think them acceptable, particularly my old friend Mr. Barker, and believe me with the greatest truth and sincerity, Yours. P.S. Tell our friend Hooper I have just received his letter of the 16th of March last, but postpone writing to him till my return, not thinking it safe to be more particular than the above, which you will be so good as to communicate. MS not found; reprinted from McRee, Iredell, 1:521-22. 1 For Johnston’s delayed departure, see William Sharpe to Thomas Burke, July 28, 1781, note. Samuel Huntington to Timothy Pickering Sir, Philada June 28. 1781 The enclosed Report from the Board of War of the 26th Instant, with Col. Miles’s Letter & Estimate being laid before Congress, they have referred the same to your Consideration. 1 You will consider whether the public Service requires such large Magazines of Forage to be laid up in this City. You are doubtless sensible of the great Resort to this City and the Consumption of Forage on that Account if all Persons who desire and think they have some Claim can get their Horses kept at the public Stable. How far this Expence can be avoided consistent with the Good of the public Service you will judge, and I am satisfied you will adopt every Plan of Giconomy in your Power and transmit to Congress your Senti ments on this Subject as soon as may be. 2 I have the Honor to be &c &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 For this report and the enclosed June 15 letter from Col. Samuel Miles, deputy quartermaster for Pennsylvania, see JCC, 20:700; and PCC, item 147, 5:421-28. Tor Quartermaster Pickering’s July 10 reply, suggesting that the most obvious retrenchment of forage expenses “would be to strike off the horses of members of Congress; to which might be added the few kept by officers on the civil list” (amounting to “upwards of sixty” of the approximately 200 kept at the Continental stables in Philadelphia), see PCC, item 192, fols. 71-76.
