366 July 2, 1781 the requisition was in every sense so necessary and proper. The Exertions of Rhode Island and some of the other States make a happy Contrast to this disposition. We have great reason to believe from a letter of Col. Cary Sp. of the Sen. of Virginia, 3 that Ninety Six fell before General Greene the latter end of May, as he mentions having seen a letter from a Capt. Pearce of the 24th of May who says the Enemy had made a Sally but were repulsed with Considerable loss & there was little doubt but that a few days wd. deliver it into our hands. 4 The Same fate it is expected wd. befall Augusta, but of this no certain intelligence has come to hand officially. It may be some Satisfaction to your Excelly. to be assured that Col. Cary has informd us that altho the Enemy have penetrated so far and in such force into our Country (Virginia) not twenty People have Joind them, and not one of those Natives, except Negroes—and a univer sal and unanimous Spirit of oposition prevails among all ranks of People, the same accounts inform us that the Marquis is above Six thousand strong—& that Lord Cornwallis is extremely weakend by sickness and desertion—the latter was lowdown on James River, & the Marquis below Richmond within 20 miles of him. I was Sorry to find on waiting on Mrs. Washington that she has been indisposed, and hoping that the Country air will be more beneficial to her than the Town, have requested that she will take up her Quarters with us at this place which I have some hopes she will do in a day or two as soon as she has rested from her fatigue. We have no news from Virginia but what I have already related except, that Mr. Nelson has been elected Governor. Mr. Hardy and Mr. McDowal Counsellors, Mr. Blair & Mr. Edmd. Randolph added to and Mr. M Smith Subtracted from the Delegation to Congress. With most fervent wishes for a Happy and Successfull campaign I am with the greatest Sincerity and most perfect respect, Yr. Excellys. Most obedt. Sert, Theok. Bland RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Bland to Washington, June 19, 1781. 2 See Samuel Huntington to Washington, July 3, 1781. 3 That is, Senate Speaker Archibald Cary. 4 In fact, Nathanael Greene’s twenty-eight day siege of the Loyalist stronghold at Ninety-Six, S.C., failed and he retreated on June 19 to avoid capture by an approaching force under Lord Rawdon. The British, however, soon evacuated the post as untenable. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir Philadelphia July 2d. 1781 A disagreable report hath prevaild here that the prisoners lately taken at Pensacola were to be Sent to N. York.
