370 July 3, 1781 length determined to look at home for their deliverance. Believe me this is the wisest step that any nation or people can persue—it wipes of[f] every Suspicion of backwardness with which our Country has been sometimes ungenerously reproached. It shews ourselves our own strength and power when collected is not so contemptible, as some have inferred from our dispersed situation and it has this good effect that when our neighbours see we are able to help our selves they will be fonder of assisting us. However you may be assured that we have watch over you with a Parents Eye, and have left no stone unturnd to yield you every possible aid that our Circumstances wd. admit. The time of your deliverance we hope is near at hand, but god grant that my Country men slacken not in their endeavors, but persevere in the most vigorous measures as well for defending themselves as for preventing future attacks—this alone can be done (with out a Superior Navy) by organizing the Militia and fortifying the proper passes of the Rivers against small attacks and invasions which are not only ruinous but disgracefull. In answer to your request relating to Yr. Brother I have to inform you that Congress have at length agreed to make good the depreciation to the Medical Staff of the Army whereby your Brothers pay will be secured to him in Specie or its equivalent. 1 The mode by which the payment is obtaind is through the Channel of the Purveyor who returns abstacts or estimates to Congress on which warrants Issue on the treasury for the new Bills or Specie (as the case may be with the treasury). A Doctor Brownson is deputy purveyor for the Southern Hospitals, and if I mistake not that Gentn. has already received a Warrant for this purpose. My own finances have been of late in so deranged a state that I have been reduced to the last Shilling, and to borrow from every Quarter & at length driven by sheer necessity to draw a Bill on Mr. Banister for £100, Specie which I must rely on my friends to make up by some means in the actual Stuff—as nothing else will do here, nor for the purpose for which this bill is intended—not having drawn one shilling from my own funds since I left Virginia and having at least double that Sum due to me besides the Produce of my Crops, &.c.&.c. I hope my honor will not suffer in this first attempt, and I must rely on you to Jog the memory of Mr. Sturdevant. My father, Mr. Yates & Mr. Banister I have written to on the same Subject. 2 Our Grand Army has taken the field and formd a Junction with the french troops near New York. A very large Body of Militia are collecting and Collected from the Eastern States and every preparation made or making for a Vigorous attack on N York. I expect the trenches will be opend in a few days. Large reinforcements are calld for, and I hope will soon march from this State, Delaware, and Maryland, both of horse, foot & artillery, to reinforce the Southern armies. Our money matters are beginning to look up, under the management of Mr. Morris our new Superinten-
