July 3, 1781 374 delegates here, I readily suppose and attribute to the very low State of the Treasury the difficulties they have been under. If the Tobacco intended to be sent here is of a good Quality, the price will very much exceed anything that it commands in Maryland. I am told 25/ Specie may be had for it. No official Information of moment hath been received from either North or South. I wish I could confirm Reports that are said to prevail with you of large Supplies having arrived at Boston; the French Ships brought some for their own People and the Alliance frigate is there, this Vessel was fortunate in capturing prizes but brought no Stores. The LaFayette who sailed with her had Stores of immense and I may add inessasable Value for the continent, but as she hath not been heard of lately it is much to be feared she hath been unfortunate. Present my respectfull Com pliments to Mrs. Lee and tell her I shall be happy to execute any Commission she may intrust me with and believe me very sincerely, Yours affety, R- Potts RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia July 3. 1781 I Shall have Occasion for more money to enable me to continue here to the expiration of the term for which I was appointed. I was obliged to use a part of the £100 furnished me last May to provide Some Necessaries for my family and I have Occasion for Some clothing. Living here is very expensive, Board is as high as ever, tho’ the prices of provisions have fallen in the market. There was no money in the Treasury to pay for my Services in the last circuit, and what was due for my past Services in Congress, I received a Note for payable after the expiration of the war. I must Entreat your Excellency and the Honble Council of Safety to Order the Pay Table to draw on the Treasurer to furnish me with the Sum of fifty pounds Specie at least, (a greater Sum would be more acceptable) and Send it by Jesse Brown the next time he comes to Philadelphia. I am Sir with very Great Esteem & Regard, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient, humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers).
