July 7, 1781 381 Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia July 6. 1781 Governor Rutledge some Days since set out from this City for South Carolina. The following is an Extract of a Letter received from him dated Monday July 2 on the Road (probably not far from Fredericktown). 1 “I give you Joy of the Taking Augusta & the Forts at Galphins & above Augusta, the Probability that Ninety Six has some Time ago fallen into our Hands.” The Post at Galphins is some fifteen or twenty Miles down the River below Augusta on the Carolina Side. My Letter from the Marquis dated twenty Miles from Wil- liamsburgh the 27th of June makes no Mention of the foregoing Intelligence. His Dispatches to your Excellency which accompany this will advise you of his Success in an Attack on a Party of the Enemy near Williamsburgh. 2 I have the Honor to be with the greatest Regard, Your Excel lency’s Most obedient & most humble servant, Sam. Huntington RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 For John Rutledge’s departure from Philadelphia, see John Mathews to Nathan ael Greene, June 25, 1781. No July 2 letter from him has been located in PCC or the Washington Papers. 2 The marquis de Lafayette’s June 28 (not 27) letter to Huntington from Wil liamsburg, Va., is in PCC, item 156, fols. 155—56. His letter of the same date to Washington is in the Washington Papers, DLC. For Lafayette’s other enclosures to Huntington, a June 27 letter to Nathanael Greene and an intercepted June 13 letter from Banastre Tarleton to Lord Cornwallis (neither of which is in the Washington Papers), see Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 4:216-17, 497; and PCC, item 156, fols. 159, 165-69. James Madison to Philip Mazzei My dear Friend Philada. July 7th. 1781 I have received 2 copies of your favour of the 7th of Deer, last and 3 of that of the 30th of Novr. preceding. Having neglected to bring with me from Virginia the Cypher concerted between you & the Executive, I still remain ignorant of the paragraph in your last which I suppose the best worth knowing. 1 The State of our affairs has undergone so many vicisitudes since you embarked for Europe, 2 and I can so little judge how far you may have had intelligence of them, that I am at a loss where I ought to begin my narrative. As the present posture of them is the most interesting I shall aim at nothing further at present than to give you some idea of that, referring to past events so far only as may be necessary to explain it.
