382 July 7, 1781 The insuperable difficulties which opposed a general conquest of America seem as early as the year 1779 to have been felt by the enemy & to have led them into the scheme of directing their operations & views against the Southern States only. Clinton accord ingly removed with the principal part of his force from N. York to S. Carolina & laid siege to Charlston which after an honorable resis tance was compelled to surrender to a superiority of force. Our loss in men besides the inhabitants of the Town was not less than 2000. Clinton returned to N. York. Cornwallis was left with about 5000 troops to pursue his conquests. Genl Gates was appointed to the Command of the S. Department, in place of Lincoln who com manded in Charlston at the time of its capitulation. He met Cornwallis on the 16th of August 1780 near Campden in the upper part of S. Carolina & on the border of N. Carolina. A general action ensued in which the American troops were defeated with consider able loss, though not without making the enemy pay a good price for their victory. Cornwallis continued his progress into N. Carolina, but afterwards retreated to Campden. The defeat of Gates was followed by so general a clamor agst. him that it was judged expedient to recall him. Greene was sent to succeed in the com mand. About the time of his arrival at the army, Cornwallis having been reinforced from N. York resumed his enterprize into N Carolina. A detachment of his best troops was totally defeated by Morgan with an inferior number, 3 & consisting of a major part of Militia detached from Green’s Army. 500 were made prisoners, between 2 or 300 killed & wounded, & abt. the like number escaped. This disaster instead of checking the ardor of Cornwallis, afforded a new incentive to a rapid advance in the hope of recovering his prisoners. The vigilance & activity however of Morgan secured them. Cornwallis continued his pursuit as far as the Dan River which divides N. Carolina from Virginia. Greene, whose inferior force obliged him to recede this far before the Enemy, reed, such succors of Militia on his entering Virga, that the chace was reversed. Cornwallis in his turn retreated precipitately. Green overtook him on his way to Wilmington, and attacked him. 4 Altho’ the ground was lost on our side the British army was so much weakened by the loss [o/] 5 or 600 of their best troops that their Retreat towds. Wilming ton suffered little interruption. Green pursued as long as any chance of reaching his prey remained & then leaving Cornwallis on his left took an oblique direction towards Campden which with all the other posts in S. Carolina except Charleston & Ninety Six have in consequence fallen again into our possession. His army lay before the latter when we last heard from him. It contained 7 or 800 men & large quantities of Stores. It is nearly 200 miles from Charleston, & without some untoward accident can not fail of being taken. Green has detachments all over S. Carolina; Some of them within a little
