July 7, 1781 385 past. Mr. Destouches who commanded the french fleet nevertheless hazarded an expedition into Chesapeak bay. The object of it was to co-operate with the Marquis de la fayette in an attack agst. Arnold who lay at Portsmouth with about 1500 British Troops. Had he got into the Bay & taken a favorable station the event would certainly have been adequate to our hopes. Unfortunately the British fleet, which followed the french immediately from Rhode Island, reached the capes of Virginia first, on the arrival of the latter a regular & fair combat took place. It lasted for several hours, and ended rather in favor of our Allies. As the Enemy however were nearest the capes, and one of the french Ships had lost her rudder & was otherwise much damaged, the Commander thought it best to relinquish his object & return to his former Station. The damage sustained by the Enemy according to their own representation, exceeded that of the french & as their number of Ships & weight of metal were both superior, it does great honor to the gallantry & good conduct of Mr. Destouches. Congress & indeed the public at large were so sensible of this that their particular thanks were given him on the occasion. 9 No description can give you an adequate idea of the barbarity with which the Enemy have conducted the war in the Southern States. Every outrage which humanity could suffer has been committed by them. Desolation rather than conquest seems to have been their object. They have acted more like desperate bands of Robbers or Buccaneers than like a nation making war for dominion. Negroes, Horses, Tobacco &c not the Standards & arms of their antagonists are the trophies which display their success. Rapes, murders & the whole catalouge of individual cruelties, not protection & the distri bution of justice are the acts which characterize the share of their usurped Jurisdiction. The advantage we derive from such proceed ings would, if it were purchased on other terms than the distresses of our Citizens, fully compensate for the injury occurring to the public. They are a daily lesson to the people of the U. States of the necessity of perseverance in the contest, and where ever the pressure of their local tyranny is removed the subjects of it, rise up as one man to avenge their wrongs and prevent a repetition of them. Those who have possessed a latent partiality for them as their resentments are embittered by their disappointments generally feel most sensibly their injuries & insults and are the foremost in retaliating them. It is much to be regretted that these things are so little known in Europe. Were they published to the World in their true colours, the British nation would be hated by all nations as much as they have hereto fore been feared by any, and all nations would be sensible of the policy of abridging a power which nothing else can prevent the abuse of. 10
