388 July 8, 1781 Refugees and Tories taken on our part have been given up for all our Militia taken by the enemy; this was agreed to without any reference to numbers or rank on either side. A new President of Congress is to be chosen tomorrow, as Mr. Huntington will not continue any longer; this honor is going a begging; there is only one Gentleman, and he from the Southward, who seems willing to accept, but I question whether he will be elected. 1 There are some amongst us, who are so fond of having a great and powerful man to look up to, that, tho’ they may not like the name of King, seem anxious to confer kingly powers, under the titles of Dictator, Superintendant of Finance, or some such, but the majority do not yet appear to be so disposed. 2 The Harvests in Pennsylvania and the adjoining States promise to be double in quantity and better in quality than in any year during the last twenty, and the whole Country teems with fruit. In short that good Providence that has protected and blessed us hitherto, appears now to take us under his most particular care; for every thing augurs well. This will be handed to you by Mr. James Davidson, Rector of the Academy of Philadelphia, who goes to Boston for the purpose of getting possession of the personal estate of a deceased Brother-in- Law, Mr. James Lynds, a Lieutenant in our Navy, and late Lieuten ant of the Privateer Thorne, on board of which he was killed in Action. Mr. Davidson had an anxiety to be introduced to you, and I knew you would grant the indulgence. If he should stand in need of any assistance, respecting his affairs, I would be obliged to you to recommend proper persons to him. Please to make my Compliments acceptable to Mr. Gerry, General Ward and Mr. Lowell, and believe that I am dear Sir, Your most obedient, humble Servant, Tho M:Kean RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Apparently Samuel Johnston of North Carolina, who was elected president of Congress the following day. He declined the office, however, giving “such reasons as were satisfactory” to Congress, and McKean himself was elected president July 10. See JCC, 20:732-33; and Charles Thomson to the States, July 10, 1781. If McKean had in mind a southerner other than Johnston, his identity is not known. John Witherspoon believed in May that Joseph Jones of Virginia could be elected to the post if he would agree to serve, but Jones was apparently not interested. See Witherspoon to Richard Henry Lee, May 19, 1781. 2 In his August 29 response to this letter, Adams bemoaned the influence of New York in the selection of these administrative officers. “I understand G M [Gouverneur Morris], is appointed Deputy Financier, R R L [Robert R. Livingston], Secretary of foreign Affairs, and if G S [General Schuyler] is appointed to the War Department and G M [General McDougall] to the Marine, there will be a compleat N Y Administration. It may be well to enquire, what Influence has brought this about, & whether so much Power vested in the Citizens of any one State will excite the reasonable Jealousy of the rest.” Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4:261-62.
