392 July 10, 1781 that the Delegates of Massachusetts are inattentive to the very important Concerns of the State When such a Length of Time has elapsed & Information has not been given, whether any Thing is done, or is to be done, with Respect to the old Currency. It is possible that every one of the above Suppositions may in part be true. It was a Misfortune that I did not receive your Official Letter, Respecting the Money &ca before I left Boston. The Letter has been before a Comme. about Eight or Ten Days. A Report has been drawn up several Days—But the Person that draughted it was suddenly taken ill, & his Life has been almost dispaired of, for two or three Days. I was very desirous to have him present, he is sensible, & has considerable Influence, & appears to take up the Matter upon equitable Principles, with Respect to the old Money. As the Report now stands, every State is to be credited for all tbe old, they can procure, previous to the first of November next, at 75 for 1. This will afford our State Relief with Respect to the Sum it may have, over & above the Requisition of Congress. Mr. Houston, of New Jersey, the Gentleman I have Reference to above, says, that he is surprised, that our State should hesitate, as to Congress’s crediting them for any over plus Sum, that they should collect. But you are very sensible that we did hesitate. If it should pass as it now stands (I cannot be assured that it will) It will not reach you, so that the Genl Court can act upon it before September; as I suppose they will adjourn to that Month. Then you will have but about seven or Eight Weeks to lay your Plan to procure it, & to have it collected. I have no doubt but that there are large Quantities of the old Currency in Massachusetts; but I do not apprehend that their greatest sufferings will arise from that—But upon the Difference of the Value of the new Money, as it has been emitted from the several Loan Offices. I dont understand that Pennsylvania have emitted a single Dollar of their 6 /io; & of the 4 /io they have issued but about 174,000 Dollrs.; & have peremptorily forbid any more of the 4 /io to be emitted. They have empowered Mr. Morris to procure other States new Money to answer the Demands of Congress for the 4 /io. This is a Stroke of Policy, that I believe Massachusetts would not have tho’t of. What is the Debt of Pensyla. in Consequence of the Resolve of Congress of the 18th of March? 174,000 Dollrs. @ 5 for 1 is 34,800 Dolls Specie—& if they furnish the Remainder of the 4 /io @ 5 for 1 It will amount to no more than 84,800 Dollrs. Specie & no accumulating Interest. The aggregate Sum is 119,600 Dollrs. Specie. Massachusetts I conclude has before this Time furnished the whole of the 4 /io @ about 2 for 1 which will make in Specie 299,000 Dollrs. Thus notwithstanding the Taxes on each are equal the united States will realize from Massachustts. 179,400 Specie Dollrs. more than from Penna. It is publicly avowed that Congress cannot, that they have not the Power to draw Bills of Exchange to discharge the Interest of any of the new Money & it will
