394 July 10, 1781 June 27. Osgood, a member of that committee along with George Clymer, Oliver Ellsworth, William Churchill Houston, and Joseph Jones, was explaining that the committee’s report had already been drafted by Houston but that it had not yet been submitted because of the latter’s sudden illness. Before further action was taken, a follow-up letter from Gov. John Hancock of June 18 was also received and referred to the committee. The committee finally presented its report to Congress on August 7, which simply referred it to the superintendent of finance, Robert Morris, on the 23d. Morris subsequently explained to Hancock that the settlement of Massachusetts’ account would have to await a determination based on figures due from each state and would be incorporated into his “general Arrangements” for all the states, which he had been working on since July. See JCC, 20:702, 750, 21:836, 897; Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 1:380-84, 2:124-39, 281-83; and Osgood to Lowell, August 28, 1781. See also James Lovell to Samuel Adams, September 15, 1781. Thomas Rodney to Caesar Rodney Sir Philada. July 10th 1781 We reed, a Letter this Morning from the Commdr. in Chief Giving an Account of an Action near Kings Bridge. 1 He had lay’d a plan for the Duke De lazon with his legion consisting of 600 Horse to surprize a post of Refugees at Morrisana and Genl. Lincoln to Make a Diversion in his favour Moved down the north River with 800 Men in boats while Our Army Moved down To Take advantage of Circumstances. Genl. Roshambeau Also Moved forward to be ready to support the Legion. Genl. Lincoln Landed near Where fort Independence stood about four Miles from Kings Bridge—And before the Duke arrived at the post of surprize an action Commenced with the Brittish and Genl. Lincoln near Hearlam which Gave the alarm and the Duke finding himself thus disappointed pushed Down to the assistance of Lincoln who en- deavourd to Draw the Enemy of so that the Duke might Turn their Flank But they warraly Crossed the Harleam in Boats a party of our Army having Cut them of from the Bridge. This Gave the Com mander in Chief & his Chief Engineer Duportail an opertunity of Approaching so near as to reconnoitre the Enemie’s works in that Quarter after which the army retired undisturbed. We had 7 killed & 20 wounded. The French army was to join ours on the 7th. I am yrs. Thomas Rodney P.S. Congress has been endeavouring some time past to elect a new President Mr. Huntington having often applied for leave to go Home on Account of his health and private affairs, and Yesterday Mr. Johnson of N. Carolina was appointed but he declined it on Account of his Bad State of health, and To day Mr. McKean was appointed and prevailed on to serve Till October next at Which Time he says he is determined To decline serving in Congress any longer. 2 TR. 3
