July 10, 1781 395 RC (DeHi: Rodney Papers). 1 Washington’s account of the "Action near Kings Bridge” arrived in his July 6 letter to Samuel Huntington. JCC, 20:737; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:329-31. 2 See Thomas McKean to Samuel Adams, July 8, 1781, notes 1 and 2. 3 Rodney returned home soon after he wrote this letter, ending his congressional service for 1781, although he served briefly in 1782 and 1786. At a considerably later date—sometime between 1789 and 1796—- Rodney composed an account of some of his congressional activities during this term, which he entered in his diary and dated only “1781. Philadelphia.” Its content indicates that it was composed after the adoption of the Federal Consitution, and at a time when his memory of this period had become unreliable. Its purpose was to demonstrate the key role he had played in shaping a number of congressional decisions, which he understandably exaggerated in some instances, injecting himself in matters that took place when he was not in attendance or even imagining developments that did not occur, as in the appoint ment of Robert Morris as “Financier,” on the one hand, or in the restoration of William Geddes and James Tilton to office, on the other. The document nevertheless contains evidence on the manner in which a few decisions were probably reached, and provides a salutary commentary on the limitations of documents not strictly contemporaneous with the events described. For a description of Rodney’s diary and the relationship of the following passages to it, see Thomas Rodney’s Diary, February 26-28, 1781, note 1. “1781. Philadelphia. In Congress “Particular Instances wherein the leading Members & Congress followed my Counsels. “I produced a plan of finance which was approved—only necessaty would not or Seemed not to admit our waiting the Effect. Therefore the Specie plan was adopted. “The Inferior business of Congress was assigned to Several officers and rules established for their Conduct—and officers or Ministers appointed. This I urged Immediately on going to Congress for I saw the Members worn out by business that could be much better done by clerks, & a Hammer constant round them because they would not do it fast Enough. “Being absent an order was made to remove all provisions &c. out of the Peninsula for fear of an expedition of the Brittish there this was absurd & I had it immediately altered. “When it was moved to order Washington and the army to Virginia I opposed it as being calculated to frustrate all his own plans it was after moved but still rejected. “I was agt. selling the Ship America & prevented it several times. “I prevailed in getting five Commissioners to Make the peace, instead of three & thereby, got Doctor Franklin and Mr. Laurence, appointed. “I prevailed in getting Mr. Morris Financier. In gitting Mr. McKean, President on Mr. Huntington’s going home. “I got Mr. Geddes a Commissioner in Treasury restored. “I got Mr. Hodgsdan appointed in the room of Col. Flower &c. “I got Doctor Tilton restored after he had been excluded by the medical committee. "My consel prevailed in Committee of the States against adopting harsh measures agst. Vermont. “In many other things my counsel was given great attention to by leading members. “But perhaps one of the most important matters my counsel prevailed in while I was attending Congress in this year—was the following which tho not done in Congress, but in a kind of private Conversation—Yet was in some measure a Communication of Sentiment between Congress and the army—wherein I may be considered as acting on the part of C , and Genl. G on the part of the A—y. “The leading members of Congress and a number of officers of the Army dined at the House of Mr. Huntington President. A variety of Sentiment on the war &c. was talked over and after a while when dinner was over & the Several Toasts gone round,
