396 July 10, 1781 The rest one after another all went of and left Genl. G , and my self in conversation. We went over the whole Contest and war with Brittan and having concluded this part of the conversation turned our views to what was to be the Situation of America after Peace, knowing that this was now solicited by G. Brittain. “It was agreed that the people would not be Statisfied with their then form of government. “That some thing would be necessary to be done. I then proposed the plan and association of the Cincinnatti—as necessary to perserve the Union and to Effect a reform in the Government. He asked what form would be best? I answered that which would be most like the one we had been used to without being the Same. He asked how we could form such an one? I answered, let there be a Senate to represent the several States & a house of Commons, or Deligates to represent the people. He asked how we should make a Chief Magistrate? I answered he must be Elective. He asked how he must be Elected, I answered by the Legislature or the people, but probably it would be best for the people to Elect him otherwise they might get jealous of him. He then asked how we should form the Interior Government? I answered this needed no direction for it would not Easily be mistaken for the System of Law itself would direct this. But I no doubt at the time & since have noted more particularly what passed on this occasion for what was then pland has been Strickly fulfild and acted up to by America.” John Sullivan to Meshech Weare $ ir Philadelphia July 10th 1781 Mr Livermore and myself were honored with your Letter of the 20th June with the Enclosures reed by yesterdays Post, which were immediately Laid before Congress and refered to a Committee with Directions to report as Soon as possible. When the Report is brought in & considered we Shall give you official Information. 1 I Expect the Result will be a prohibition to the pretended State of Vermont Exercising any Jurisdiction East of the River and an appointment of a Day for proceeding upon the Examination of the Dispute. This will End in the appointment of a Committee to Determine thereon. The Reason why this has not been Sooner done is because there has not been a Competent Congress Since Last fall untill within a few weeks past. I am Every Day more and more convinced of the Danger and impolicy of Suffering the Question of the Independence of Vermont to come upon the Tapis for if it Should be denied New York alone will receive the advantage for the Reasons mentioned in my former Letter. But I apprehend that this would not be the Case. I rather Incline to think that the present members would make Desperate Strugles in favor of its Independence. I scarcely Dare trust my Thoughts on paper but be assured Sir that the Policy of Vermont has Induced them to make Enormous grants to men of Influence in Several States & Even to members of Congress. 2 Mr Livermore & myself no doubt will Concur in the proper plan to avoid the Danger arising from this & other Quarters. The only “Plausible argument” in favor of Determining the Question of Independence is That this is not Simply a Dispute between New York & New Hampshire but
