July 10, 1781 397 between them & a people claiming to be Independent of both. The answer to this is Simple & plain viz that New Hampshire 8c New York both by ancient 8c modern determinations join upon Each other. Of Course no Independent State can possibly Exist between them 8c their claim of Independence can no more operate to alter the mode of tryal pointed out in the confederation than if Massa- chusets & New Hampshire both Laid Claim to the County of Essex 8c the Inhabitants were to Declare themselves Independent of both. Here the first Steps should be to Settle the Dispute between the States 8c if it was Determined to Appertain to Massa, no other Question would be necessary. Besides if we admit for a moment the possibily of its being Independent we declare it out of the union 8c oust ourselves of any Jurisdiction, as we have nothing to do with more than thirteen States a fourteenth would have a right to Deny the Jurisdiction of Congress which it Seems Vermont has already done. The Safest ground therefore for New Hampshire is to Trust that as there is no intermediate Spot between New York 8c New Hampshire 8c That as Congress have Included Vermont within the Limits of the Thirteen united States it must belong to Some one of them and Therefore Congress ought to Determine to which agre- able to the rules Laid Down in the Confederation. I confess myself astonished at the proceedings of Vermont 8c more so at the Conduct of the Inhabitants in our Counties. I am unwilling to believe them Influenced by the British, but a variety of Circum stances have almost Confirmed me in this opinion. I Suppose whatever can be done here will be done in a week or fortnight at farthest. The Commissioners will no Doubt meet at Springfield or Hartford where the titles will be Discussed 8c the Right Determined. Of Course my attendance here will be no Longer necessary on that account. I wish therefore that Mr Gilman may be directed to Set out to relieve me immediately as my Domestic concerns will oblidge me to Set out perhaps before his arrival. Should the State call on me to argue the Cause before the Commissioners I shall attend with pleasure. I have the honor to be with the most perfect Esteem Dear Sir your most obedt. Servt. Jno Sullivan RC (Nh-Ar: Vermont Controversy Collection). 1 President Weare’s June 20 letter and its enclosed petitions from Swanzey, Walpole, and Westmoreland were read in Congress on July 9, and referred to a committee consisting of Daniel Carroll, Thomas McKean, James Madison, Roger Sherman, and James M. Varnum. See JCC, 20:732; PCC, item 40, 2:49-50; and N.H. State Papers, 10:401-2. For the committee’s report and the initial congressional response to it, see the August 7, 1781, letters below of Samuel Livermore, Roger Sherman, John Sullivan, and the New York delegates. 2 See, for example, the letters of John Witherspoon to William Livingston of February 3 and May 8 and 15, 1781, on the subject of their Vermont interests.
