410 July 14, 1781 restoring fast, and the trade & commerce of this city really flourish. In short our affairs wear a promising aspect. I have the Honor to be, with the utmost Regard, Your Excel lency’s Most obedient & very humble Servant, Tho M:Kean President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by McKean. 1 JCC, 20:737. This letter to Samuel Huntington is in PCC, item 152, 10:159-62; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:329-31. 2 For this resolve, which pertained to both “the geographer to the main army, and also the geographer to the southern army,” seeJCC, 20:738, where it follows an entry recording Thomas Hutchins’ recent acceptance of the office of geographer to the southern army. McKean also sent the same resolve to Gen. Nathanael Greene, commander of the southern department, under cover of a brief letter of July 13. PCC, item 16, fol. 42. 3 JCC, 20:746. McKean also sent a copy of this resolve this day to Hodgdon notifying him of his appointment. PCC, item 16, fol. 45. Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia July 17th. 1781 I am just favord with yours of the 13th. We have a letter from Mr. Parsons our Agent at Martinique June 13th. Tobago taken by one Ship of the line, 2 frigates & 800 troops. Several Vessels Loaded in the Harbour fell into the Hands of the French. 1 We have no acct of the force or the disposition of the fleets. Not much credit due to the article in the paper abt Barbadoes. Mr Franklin has sent us Several Original Letters chiefly from Lord George Germain to Sr. Hy Clinton &ca. They were taken in an English packet & carryd into France. 2 The Substance of these Letters will be publishd I expect to morrow, & I will look out for an opportunity to Send it to you before post. At present I will only say in General that they express the strongest confidence that America was at that time on the Brink of returning to G.B. Mr. Potts has this moment show’d me what he has wrote you on this Subject which makes it unnecessary for me to add any thing. The President has a Letter from Genl Green the 9th of June—not yet read in Congress—Augusta taken—great & valuable stores fallen into our hands. I fear Genl. Green has raisd the Seige of 96 & that Wayne has been severely handeld by Cornwallis. No official acct of these matters. Present me to yr Lady. I am Dr Sr., with great esteem & regard, Yrs &c, Dani Carroll
