412 July 17, 1781 with yr. Invitation. But I cannot press her to comply; and I cannot be deceitful enough to conceal my selfish Reasons. The dear Woman now has the most just Persuasion of the Countinuance of an Affection towards her which constitutes great Part of her Happiness. I should be sorry to have that Persuasion poisoned accidentally by any Cornelia. The Suggestions of “trifling" People have not injured me. The same from “one of the best Characters" might embitter some of my future Days. The Ingenuous will always “take Correction patiently” when Justice lays it on. Censoriousness cannot prove itself to be even a distant Branch of the Family of Justice. With much Esteem, Yr. Frd. JL RC (MHi: Adams papers). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 4:181-82. 1 See Lovell to Abigail Adams, May 29 and June 16, 1781. 2 See Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 4:164-65. 5 For Lovell’s translation of two letters of the comte de Vergennes, and the letter from Benjamin Franklin relative to the subject of her anxiety, see Lovell to Abigail, July 13, 1781, note 5. 4 See Abigail’s June 30 letter to Alice Lee Shippen in Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 4:167-68. Thomas McKean to George Washington Sir Philadelphia. July 17th. 1781. A Mail from Falmouth having been captured, sundry original letters have been sent to Congress, from which the following are extracts. 1 Lord George Germain to the Commissioners for restoring Peace White Hall March 7th. 1781. “Your declaration of the 29 December inclosed in your joint dispatch will I trust be productive of all the good effects you hope from it and which so well timed a publication entitles you to expect and I shall be very happy to carry to the King an application to the King from any of the revolted Provinces for pardon and restoration of the privileges of british subjects. “The narrow limits to which you have reduced your exceptions and the generality of the assurances you have given of a restoration of the former constitutions were I doubt not well considered and judged necessary and expedient but as there are many things in the consitutions of some of the Colonies and some things in all which the People have allways wished to be altered and others which the common advantage of both countries requires to be changed it is necessary to be attentive that neither your acts or declarations preclude any disquisition of such subjects or prevent such alterations being made in their constitutions as the people may solicit or
