414 July 17, 1781 stand to be sent by land carriage to Portsmouth and there distrib uted on board the Transports as I understand they are much wanted for arming the Loyalists. They are addressed to the com mander of the forces in South Carolina.” From Lord George Germaine to Sir H. Clinton dated White Hall 7 March 1781 “Sir “Since my letter to you of the 7th of Feby. I have received your dispatches numbered four 113 to 117 inclusive, and laid them before the King. “The revolt of the Pensylvania line and Jersey brigade tho’ not attended with all the good consequences that might have been expected, are certainly events of very great importance and must have very extensive effects both in reducing Washington’s present force, and preventing its being recruited by new levies, and as I doubt not you will avail yourself of his weakness and your own great superiority to send a considerable force to the head of the Che- sepeak, as soon as the season will permit operations to be carried on in that quarter, I flatter myself the southern provinces will be recovered to his Majesty’s obedience before the long promised succours, none of which are yet sailed, can arrive from France, And Mr. Washington unable to draw subsistence for his troops from the west side of Hudsons river, be compelled to cross it and take refuge in the eastern provinces. I am very anxious to hear of Lord Cornwallis’s progress since Genl. Leslie joined him, I have no doubt his movements will be rapid and decisive, for his Lordship appears to be fully impressed with the absolute necessity of vigorous exer tions in the service of this Country in its present circumstances, the success of Genl. Arnold’s enterprize up James River which the rebel newspaper’s confirm, must greatly facilitate his Lordship’s opera tions by cutting off Green’s supplies; and obliging the militia to return to take care of their own property, Indeed so very contempt ible is the rebel force now in all parts and so vast is our superiority every where that no resistance on their part is to be apprehended that can materially obstruct the progress of the King’s Arms in the speedy suppression of the rebellion, and it is as pleasing tho’ at the same time a mortifying reflection when the duration of the rebellion is considered which arises from a view of the returns of the Provincial forces you have transmitted, that the american Levies in the Kings services are more in number than the whole of the inlisted troops in the service of the Congress. “I am very glad to find you have commissioned a board of Directors of the refugees and I hope the Admiral will have been able to spare them shipping to carry on their operations on the sea coast of the New England provinces, many of those within the lines who are unfit for military service are desirous of being settled in the
