416 July 17, 1781 think proper.” See JCC, 20:754; and Washington Papers, DLC. He also sent the same resolve with a brief cover letter of this date to Gen. Nathanael Greene, which is in the Perry Collection, OCIWHi. Richard Potts to Thomas Sim Lee Dr Sir, Philadelphia July 17. 1781 I wish I could by this post give you any authentic Information of our Affairs to the south, but Congress have received no Letters from either commanding Officers in that Department for many days. Reports from thence pass through Maryland, and these Approach nearer to truth in proportion to their Vicinity to the Scene of Operations. Those are the only Source of this days Intelligence. Congress have had before them a number of Official Letters from the Ministry in Brittain to their Commander in Chief, and other Heads of Departments in America, these were intercepted in a packet taken in Europe and transmitted by Mr. Jay. 1 From the Letters of Lord Germaine to Sir Henry Clinton &ca. it appears that the Expectation of a speedy Conquest was fully impressed on the Brittish Cabinet, and that administartion already regretted their proffered Clemency through their Commissioners held out in their proclamations. He observes to General Clinton and the other Commissioners that their Offers of pardon were not sufficiently guarded with Exceptions, and that the Supplicants for pardon being readmitted to a full Enjoyment of the Rights exercised under their former Connection was more than Government ever intended to grant. Or in other Words that they meant to deprive them of their Charters and constitute their Governments more to the Will of the Parliament. He expresses much Satisfaction at the General’s Infor mation that there were more provincials in his Majestys Service in America than that of the United States, but laments the mortifying reflection that under those Circumstances the Rebellion should have continued so long. His Lordship apprehends General Clinton’s Generosity in recommending so many of the provincial Choirs [Corps] to be put upon the Brittish Establishment and then secure of Victory, gives such a Construction to his Majestys directions on that Subject as to restrict the Benefits of it to very few. These Instances serve to shew, if it remained to be proved, what would be the treatment of the friends to America in it, if his, Germaine’s imaginary Ideas of Success were to be realised. No sooner had they any foundation for such a Hope, than they begin [...] to estimate the Value, and regret the Loss of Estates secured under former Submissions; and wish to discharge from their Service without the Rewards held out formerly, those whom they have seduced to be instrumental in accomplishing their supposed Con-
