July 17, 1781 419 John Sullivan to John Wendell Dear Sir Philadelphia July 17th 1781 I am honored with your favor of the 3d Instant and shall pay particular attention to its Contents; the affair of Vermont is now before Congress and I flatter myself proper measures will be adopted to punish the Defection of the Towns East of Connecticut River: and also the unwarrantable usurpations of Vermont. I think Congress will fix a Day for determining the Claims of N. Hamps and New York. 1 I Thank you for the Intelligence respecting the Spy. I believe that by That or some other Channel you will soon discover that The Leading men in Vermont if not a great majority of the Inhabitants are in the British Interest. I sincerely wish Mr Morris had hard Cash Sufficient to pursue the Plan you propose but he has not Enough for that and for carrying on the present Campaign, which Last must be preferred to Every other Consideration. As to the proposed Congress of vienna we have every thing to hope but nothing to fear from that Quarter. Russia has already fixed two preliminary Articles viz an absolute Recognition of the Indepen dance of America: And the Restoration of Dutch property by the Court of London, all the powers of Europe Except the Emperor of Germany will from principles of policy Endeavor to Separate forever Great Britain and America—The Emperors Interest on the Contrary urges him to Augment the power of Britain as his only Security against the growing power of France. The King of Prussia is bound by Every principle of policy to Increase the power of france in order to Diminish that of the Emperor. This being the Case Either a peace will take place agreeable to our wishes or the Congress will break up without any thing more being Effected than a Determination of the Emperor to Espouse the Cause of Britain and that of the Empress to oppose it. This cannot Effect America but in the most advantageous manner, for the force of Germany added to that of Britain when opposed by Russia will not be so Dangerous to America as that of the Catawba Indians, it has no Naval force & when that of Russia is added to that of France Spain & Holland the Superiority will be so Decisive that all attempts against America will either Cease or prove fruitless, the Land forces of Germany if put in motion will be immediately opposed by Prussia & Should a part of that of france and Spain become necessary this will not diminish That Naval Superiority which will Serve Effectually to Baffle their attempts against the united States. I shall mention you to Mr Morris and Inform you orally of his reply. I Say orally because I mean to Leave this place in a few weeks. Mr Livermore Sends his Compliments.
