434 July 24, 1781 Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to Charles Carroll of Carrollton My dear Sir, Phila. July 24h. 1781 The last accounts from General Green were, that he was obliged to raise the Seige of 96, but expected to come to some action with Lord Rawdon. Genl. Moutrie who left Chas Town the 8th Inst, informs, that it was reported in that place, that Lord Rawdon had retreated to Orangeburgh 80 Miles from C. T; & that General Green had reinvested 96. The last information from the Marquis, mentions an Action between part of our Troops & Cornwallis near Wmsburg and that in consequence thereof his Lordship had crossed James River, and generally conjectured here that he intended to Ports mouth, & from thence to N York & Chas Town, but I this moment am told that RH Lee has wrote to some Gentln. in this place, that he was on his March to the Carolinas. I wish this may be true, for he must lose great part of his Army in accomplishing of it at this Season of the year. We lost in the action near Wmsburg in killed, wounded & missing about 140 men, many officers wounded but none killed; a Lieut. Coll of the Jerseys taken prisoner. The Marquis says that the British lost many more but had taken great pains to conceal their dead. I fear as the dead were carried off, that we did not do great execution. What progress Genl Washington will make against New York God only knows. I confess that my expectations are but small. It is said that two British Ships of the Line, & Seven Transports are gone up North River, if this be true it is done to draw Genl Washing towards West point. We have had no late accounts from Europe or the West Indias. Attempts have been made upon the people of Vermont by the Generals Clinton & Haldimand to seduce them to the British Interest, & I fear not without some success. If we do not soon make them independt. it is probable the British will gain them over. Ned Rutledge, Gadsden & Young Middleton are dayly expected in this Town from Augustine being exchanged. Admiral Digby with 5 Ships of the line are it is said arrived at New York, the Kings third Son a Midshipman onboard the Adms. Ship. What the French and Spaniards are about none but them does know, but our Interest seems to be considered as a remote object. Your School fellow I believe is not the worst General the British have had in America. He never retreated. It is true that the King of G B. did not accept of the Mediation between him & the U.S. of Hol[lan]d but propose their difference to [be] setled at the General pacification. The English have certainly suffered in the East Indias. I shall make Enquiry of the N E Dels, the mode of packing Hay at Boston, & inform you of the information I may receive.
