450 July 26, 1781 1 George Clymer, Joseph Montgomery, and Thomas Smith were the Pennsylvania delegates attending Congress at this time. 2 The council’s July 23 letter reads: “Agreeable to the Resolution of Assembly we have prepared a Petition to Congress requesting a Hearing upon the Claim set up by Connecticut for the Susquehanna Lands agreeable to the Articles of Confederation— But as we would not embarrass Congress or take up their Time with a disagreeable Discussion at an improper Season, we shall be glad of your Opinion whether it will at this Juncture be seasonable & proper.” For this letter, the “Petition therein aluded to,” and the Pennsylvania Assembly resolution calling for a new effort “to bring to final settlement the long depending dispute” between Connecticut and Pennsylvania, see Susquehanna Co. Papers, 7:84, 86-87, 90-91. For the council’s decision in October to revive the subject (the reasons for delaying it “having ceased”), see Pa. Council Minutes, 13:79; JCC, 21:1092, 1107, 1115-16; PCC, item 77, fols. 21-24; and Richard Law to Jonathan Trumbull, November 6, 1781. Georgia Delegates to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir, Philadelphia, 27 July, 1781. We have this instant been notified of the present opportunity to your Army, and with infinite satisfaction embrace it, to testify to you the high sense we have of your arduous exertions for the honor & welfare of the department in general, and for the State of Georgia in particular. 1 In the name of the people of that State, we beg leave to offer to you our most grateful and sincere thanks. Permit us also to add, that it is the constant theme of all orders and ranks of men this way, that you have done wonders, however much the unlucky reinforcement to the enemy may vary the scene. We flatter ourselves that the people of Georgia will immediately organize their Constitutional form of Government, of which they are very fond; & feel the utmost confidence, from the earnest you have given us, that you will afford it every possible Countenance & support. 2 The appointment of Major Jackson 3 to raise a corps in that State, is also a great proof of your discernment. He is a young gentleman particularly distinguished for his inflexible integrity, undaunted bravery, and zealous love for his Country; and we have the highest expectations from the arrangement. We lament the cruelties that must have taken place, after your putting our people again in possession of their Country; but we ought to make great allowances for the feelings of the father, the husband, the friend—the british have set the melancholy example— Retaliation may be carried too far. We would fain hope it has not been the case with our constituents: but we admit the foundation of implacable resentments. We beg leave to assure you, Dear Sir, that, let the issue of your command be what it may, in the face of such difficulties, we shall
