July 28, 1781 451 always admire and esteem you; being with the greatest respect and regard, your much obliged, & most Obedient servants, Geo. Walton Richd. Howly RC (N: Signers of the Declaration). Written by Walton and signed by Walton and Howly. 1 This letter was undoubtedly delivered with Congress’ commendation of Greene for his conduct of the southern campaign, for which see Thomas McKean to Greene, July 26, 1781. 2 For the reorganization of Georgia, see Georgia Delegates to the Speaker of the Georgia Assembly, July 18, 1781, note 1. 3 That is, Maj. James Jackson, who became lieutenant colonel of the Georgia State Legion in August 1781 at Greene’s suggestion and was presented the keys to Savannah when it was evacuated in July 1782. See The Revolutionary Records of the State of Georgia, ed. by Allen D. Candler, 3 vols. (Atlanta: Franklin-Turner Co., 1908), 3:25; and Heitman, Historical Register, p. 239. Elias Boudinot to Peter Wilson Sir 1 Philadelphia. July 28th. 1781 I think it a Duty as well as an honor to have the Pleasure of addressing you on my taking a Seat in Congress as one of your Delegates, and shall be very glad of a continued Correspondence while at this Place, as I should be allways glad to Conform myself to the general Ideas of my Constituents. I set off for this Place on the 18th Instt. but was much surprized on my arrival here to find that by the resolution of the Joint Meeting appointing Dr Elmore & myself, that we are restricted from representing the State of New Jersey unless one of the former delegates are present. This we consider as making an invidious Distinction between us, and could not have taken our Seats under this partial Appointment consistent with our reputation & feelings had not Dr. Witherspoon assured us that it must be a bare misprision of the Clerk, this has prevailed on me to continue here till we can hear from you, which I must beg to be by return of the next Stage. I would be glad of your information what appeared to you to be the Sense of the Legislature, for tho’ Congress make no Objection to our representing the State, yet it will not be safe or prudent for us to vote alone, under the express declaration of the State to the Contrary unless we are properly assured that it is a Mistake. 2 As this goes by the Stage, which is an uncertain Conveyance, I can say nothing in point of News but what may be made publick, with safety. Our affairs both abroad and to the Southward, bear the most flattering Aspects, and we are encouraged to hope & Expect the happiest Consequences from the continued Struggles of this Year. It
