July 28, 1781 453 William Sharpe to Thomas Burke Sir Philadelphia July 28. 1781 Mr. Johnston, who left this place on the 14th instant will commu nicate to your Excellency every thing material from this quarter on his arival in the state. I greatly lament the absence of so able a representative and of so judicious and very agreable collegue. Upon the resignation of Mr. Huntington he was almost unanimously elected and earnestly solic ited to take the chair; but his ill state of health and other considera tions induced him to decline it. 1 The most particular object which rendered it necessary for me to continue here a few weeks longer was to procure and forward arms to our State agreeable to a resolution of Congress which we obtained for that purpose on the 26 of April a copy of which I do myself the honor to inclose. The enemy being in force in Virginia made it necessary that the arms first repaired should be sent there. The want of money and the deranged condition of the laboratories are the causes of this business going on so slow. Fifteen hundred stand are all that we can get at present. Five hundred are now ready; it may be three or four weeks before the remainder are finished. On applica tion I have obtained an order for 1500 cartouch boxes and a sufficient quantity of fixed amunition. The arms are equal to any in the army, with good bayonets. The next great difficulty is for the quarter-master to procure waggons for the transportation. I shall spare no pains nor leave any thing in my power unessayed to have them forwarded without loss of time. The Superintendent of finance and the board of war have such difficulties in the dispensation of our small fund of money, that without my close attention the State will never recieve one of those necessary articles. Tho your delegates here have not received any explicit instructions on this subject, yet I flatter myself that our conduct will meet with the entire approbation of your Excellency and the legislature. I am perswaded that if the State had been well armed Lord Cornwallis would not have been permitted to march and countermarch through that country and plunder its best citizens with impunity. Our Frigate Alliance arived at Boston about the 8th of June. Six weeks before which the Ship Marquis de la Fayette (with all our cloathing, arms &c on board) was seperated from her in a heavy gale of wind and not since heard of. It is supposed that she foundered. It is also supposed that the same fate attended the vessel on board of which Colo. Palfrey sailed for France last December. Such is the strange fatality which attend our procuring supplies from France that the court have determined to send a quantity under their own immediate direction.
