454 July 28, 1781 A Letter dated in April hath been recieved from Colo. Laurens which gives a prospect of some further pecuniary aid from that quarter. Conferrences on the subject of a general pacification will probably not open before the close of this campaign. The seperate mediation offered by the court of Petersburg between the States General and England hath been deferred by the latter until the general negociations shall open. This event is thought favourable to the common cause and was probably dictated by the same delusive views and principles which are manifested in Lord George Germains letters to Sir H. Clinton. About that time the british ministry were informed of the defection in the Pennsylvania and New Jersey lines of the army—The inter cepted letters in the eastern mail containing a dismal picture of our affairs—The parade and pomposity of Lord Cornwallis in the southern States—and the flattering prospects which his Lordship and Sir Henry entertained at that time of subduing america, together with the hope that the inhabitants of Vermont would join the Canadian forces this campaign) and formed the data of Ger mains letters. The most conspicuous of those intercepted letters are contained in the inclosed papers, to which I beg leave to refer you. A letter has lately been received from Madrid. That court perti naciously insists on those things which have so long been their object, so that a treaty with them is apparently remote. Our money negociations goes on with a little more ease than formerly and Mr. Jay has obtained some cloathing for our army. Should any thing material occur while I continue here I will with pleasure communicate it. I presume it is unnecessary for me to request your particular attention to keep up our representation in Congress. I am per- swaded that you view it with me as a matter of great consequence to the southern states and I doubt not that every effort will be used to accomplish it. With the highest respect and esteem I have the honor to be, Your Excellencys Most Obedient Humble Servt. Wm. Sharpe RC (PHC: Roberts Collection). 1 Johnston himself explained the circumstances of his departure from Philadelphia in a July 30 letter to Governor Burke written while en route home. "Having no prospect of being relieved or supplyed with money for my expences and my disorder, which abated a little on the first approach of warm weather, returning so as to render me of little use in Congress, I left Philadelphia the 14th, for which I hope I shall be held excusable by this State.” And in a brief letter of August 6, Johnston added the following observation concerning Sharpe’s determination to escape Philadelphia: “I wrote you a few lines the other day from Roanoke but do not now recollect whether I mentioned to you the Necessity of sending on as soon as possible two Delegates to Congress, one will answer no usefull purpose as Mr Sharpe had resolved, as soon as he could see about 1500 Stand of Arms and a quantity of fixed ammunition in motion for the State, to return home.” N.C. Slate Records, 15:588-89, 22:554-55.
