July 29, 1781 455 William Sharpe to Nathanael Greene Dear General, Philadelphia July 28. 1781 I hope you will see Governor Rutledge an[d] Colo. Few who will be able to give you a minute account of the public affairs here and in Europe. Copies of the most conspicious letters from Lord George Ger maine to Sir Henry Clinton intercepted and sent here by way of France were sent you by Colo. Few which I hope you will duly recieve. Colo. Laurens last letter from France gives a prospect of some farther pecuniary aid and that the Minister of Marine will, if possible establish a naval superiority on the american seas before the close of this campaign. 1 The seperate offer of mediation made by the court of Petersburg between the States general and England hath been deferred by the latter until conferences shall open the subject of a general pacifica tion. This event cannot be unfavorable to us, and no doubt was dictated by the same views and principles which is manifested in Germains letters. There is nothing material from the main army nor from the West Indias. If you have obliged the enemy to abandon their post at ninety six, as is reported, it will be gaining a very great point. The fatagues that you and your little army undergo pain me to the heart. May you live to enjoy the fruit of your labor. With the highest respect & esteem I am my dear GenL, Your most Obt. Humble Servt. Wm. Sharpe RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). 1 Apparently a reference to John Laurens’ April 9 letter to Congress, for which see Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee, July 17, 1781, note 2. Laurens’ May 15 letter from Paris (erroneously endorsed by Charles Thomson “Letter May 25. 1781, John Laurens") also contained the information mentioned by Sharpe, but it was carried by Capt. William Jackson who had gone to Amsterdam to hasten preparations for the sailing of the Indien and consequently did not arrive in Philadelphia until February 28, 1782. See PCC, item 41:451,459, item 165, fols. 115-18; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:416-17. Elias Boudinot to Hannah Boudinot My dearly beloved Wife, Philadelphia July 29th. 1781. Tho late in the Evening, I am glad to get rid of my fellow Lodgers, and retire from their very disagreeable Company (on this day) to hold converse with my better Self. As it is uncertain whether I shall have time to write again before the Post goes, shall inform you of my Situation.
