456 July 29, 1781 I tryed in vain to get Lodgings near the State House, and altho’ I was kindly invited to my old Quarters, yet the irregularity of Congress Hours & the Circumstances of the family were such as obliged me to refuse it. The City is so filled with the distressed Georgia & Carolina refugees, that I was afraid I should be prevented getting any Quarters out of a Tavern. At last I have got a room at a Mrs. Clarks, in the House Mr. Searle formerly lived, at the Corner of Chestnut & front Streets opposite Woods the Watch-maker. I am in the third Story & with very disagreeable Company, particularly on the Sabbath. I give 7 Dollars per Week for my Board & find my own Drink, wood & Candles. My Situation is not very desirable & my Services here, not such as will satisfy me for the loss of what I prize above all temporal Pleasures I mean domestic Ease & Happiness. I know it may be answered that I am destitute of that laudable ambition & Pursuit of Honor that should urge every Man to activity. I confess I have other Views & other Pursuits—and as I find so many ready to supply my deficiencies in this respect, that I am contented to pass thro’ Life in humble Obscurity, if it be [the] will of my heavenly father, who has a right to dispose of me & my Services as he shall see best. Resignation to his will is I hope the great Pursuit of my Life. If nothing turns up here, more than at present, I shall try to be home about the 20t Augt. I got my Trunk safe but have been obliged to get a new pair of Buckles mine not being sent. I have no News to Communicate except that in general our affairs both abroad & at Home (I mean to the Southward) wear the most flattering Appearances. Lord Cornwallis since his drubbing by General Wayne, has retreated quite to Portsmouth & the Marquis is refresh ing his Troops in such Manner as to cover the Country. Julia goes on Tuesday for Princeton, so that I shall then be all alone. I hope my beloved Wife is much happier with her little family about her, than I am here. If I was convinced that I was doing essential Service to my Country, it would give me Pleasure even to forego that large Share of Happiness I have left behind, but I feel myself inadequate to the Errand on which I am sent, and ardently wish some Person of superior Talents was in my room. I am not so humble as to suppose I am not as equal to the Task as many that have been here before me, but their deficiency does not give me Capacity. I am convinced the Affairs of America requires now the Abilities of a Pitt & a Necker to preside over her Councils. However I did not choose myself, nor ever did solicit the Choice from any other Person, and therefore while I remain in this important Station, will make up by Integrity & Application my want of those other Qualifications necessary for this important Trust. I will leave this Letter unfinished till Tuesday. Monday Night. 1 What shall I say to my beloved Wife—in distress & pain, and no tender Hand to afford relief, or sympathetic Heart to
