460 July 31, 1781 with regard to the event of them. Col. Willet we understand has lately given a decisive defeat to a party from Canada on the Frontiers of N. York. 2 With very sincere regard I am, Dr. Sir, Your obt friend & Servant, J. Madison Junr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:204-5. 1 See ibid., pp. 192-93. 2 Col. Marinus Willett’s victory over a large party of “Tories” and Indians near Canajoharie, N.Y., on July 1 was reported in the August 2 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet. George Partridge to Samuel Holten My dear Sir, Phila. July 31st 1781 Knowing your disinterested benevolence to your friends as well as to your Country I must take the freedom of requesting a Line from you to inform me how matters are with you. The Letter from a Commee. of the Legislature is yet before the Commee of Congress whither any bills will be obtained for the payment of interest is uncertain, & by no means to be depended upon. 1 The Redemption of the Remainder of the old money is now under Consideration of a Commee. & the mode of redemption will I hope be setled soon. The Independence of Vermont has taken up several days in Congress, the Idea is more familiar, and not so shocking even to the Dominion as formally, & tho’ I have no great apprehentions that the Enemy can bring over those people to their obedience; yet I think it necessary to do something to quiet their minds and Settle the Affairs which I believe will soon take place. I am very glad to see the same Gentlemen are in Council as last year, and doubt not but your Business must go on easy & well while this is the Case. For news I must refer you to the inclosd. paper and shall only add that 4 or 5 Cartels have lately arrived from Charlestown & Augustine with some soldiers, but principally Citizens from Charlestown, who have been driven out by the Enemy from the city & taken from Guard ships. Many of these people are gentlemen who have lived in ease & affluence, but are now real objects of Charity & compassion; as the Enemy, contrary to the faith of the most solemn treaty, & every feeling of humanity, denyd. them the smallest pittance of their own Estates. Congress have recommend them to the Charity of the people, and I hope that something handsome will be done by contribution. I am Sir with great Esteem your most obedient humble Servt. Geo Partridge P.S. I wish you would inform me how taxes come in or whither any difficulties in collecting beef &c.
