462 July 31, 1781 New York living without the limits of the disputed territory would return to their Allegiance. The British Ministry esteem it as object of Great importance to them, to engage the people of Vermont in their Interest, and have accordingly Instructed Gen. Clinton & Gen. Haldiman to use their best endeavours for that end. And tho’ I dont think the people have any inclination to come under the British Yoke, or to do anything injurious to this Country, yet if left in their present Situation, they may be led to take Steps very prejudicial to the United States... 2 I think it very unlikely, that Congress can attend to the Settlement of the dispute by a Judicial decision, during the War, for though the parties were heard last fall respecting their claims, yet it cannot now be determined upon the right, without a new hearing, because there are many New Members that were not then present. I am credibly Informed that a great Majority of the members of the Legislature of the State of New York at their last winter session were willing to relinquish their claim of Jurisdiction over that district, and that they Should be admitted to be a Seperate State, but the Governor for Some reasons prevented an act passing at that time. We have No News remarkable here. Paper currency is very much at an end, Some of the New Bills are bought & Sold, but Silver and Gold are the only currency—the prices of Commodities are much fallen, many articles are as low, as before the war. I Send you two of the last News papers. And am with Great Esteem & Regard, Your humble Servant, Roger Sherman P.S. Since writing the foregoing Congress have recommitted the report. 3 New York delegates arrived to day—They are instructed to move for a decision of the affair of Vermont. 4 RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). FC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See Ezra L’Hommedieu to George Clinton, this date, note 3. 2 Thus in the RC. At this point in the FC Sherman had inserted and lined out the following sentence: “I therefore think it would be much the Safest and best way for the States of New Hamshire & New York to pass Acts Similar to that passed by Massachusetts, without waiting for any recommendation of Congress.” 3 JCC, 21:818. 4 See L’Hommedieu to Clinton, this date. Virginia Delegates to Thomas Nelson Sr. Phila. 31st July 1781 The Rider being robed of the Mail a few miles on this side of Wilmington prevented your Excellency from receiving our Letter of last week a copy of which we now inclose. 1 Nothing material having since intervened we have only to add that the information given by
