August 7, 1781 481 Thomas McKean to Joseph Reed and Caesar Rodney Sir, Philadelphia August 7. 1781 Your Excellency will receive inclosed herewith copies of divers letters announcing the motions of Lord Cornwallis’s Army to be for Baltimore or the head of Chesapeake. 1 These Letters came to hand yesterday, and the General and the President of Delaware are both furnished with copies. The Enemy, I suspect from the intercepted Letter of Lord G. Germaine to Sir Henry Clinton of the 7th Febry. last, 2 have still some hopes of being joined by the Tories and Traitors of Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland; but I flatter myself they will now find but few of this description. I have the Honor to be &c &c Th. McK. 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “To President Reed. N.B. A similar Letter to President Rodney.” 1 This intelligence was forwarded to Congress in an August 4 letter from Maryland governor Thomas Sim Lee, enclosing letters to him from James McHenry of July 30, from the marquis de Lafayette of August 1, and from Commodore James Barron to Lafayette of July 31 reporting the movement of British ships from Cape Henry up Chesapeake Bay. See JCC, 21:832; PCC, item 70, fols. 481-93; and Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 4:292-93. 2 See McKean to Washington, July 17, 1781, note 1. 3 McKean also wrote the following letter to the Eastern Navy Board this day, enclosing an August 3 resolve denying the board’s recommendation of John Buckley for a promotion to a lieutenancy on board the Alliance. “Your letter of the 31 [2 l]st of July was read in Congress on the third instant, and an Order passed in consequence of it, a copy of which you have herewith enclosed.” See JCC, 21:828-29; and PCC, item 16, fol. 57, item 37, fols. 499-501. Thomas McKean to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia, August 7th. 1781 I was yesterday honored with your Letter of the 2d Instant, and communicated it with the Inclosures immediately to Congress. 1 Re-iterated Complaints from our unfortunate Prisoners at New- York, whose Treatment is cruel, beyond Description and their Situation really deplorable, gave rise to the Act of Congress of the 3d Instant, a Copy of which is inclosed herewith. How their Distresses will be alleviated is difficult to tell: Humanity to the Enemy Prisoners seems to be no longer a Virtue; Retaliation through the Medium of the Simsbury Mines, may possibly awaken them to a Sense of Duty. 2 By the last Accounts from Maryland, the Fleet with Lord Cornwal lis amounting to near forty Sail, and having on Board (it is supposed) near three thousand Troops, had proceeded on the 1st Instant from Hampton Road towards Anapolis: 3 His Lordship
