482 August 7, 1781 himself was said to remain at Portsmouth, and two Men of War & eight Transports in Hampton Road. Governor Lee had on Saturday last six hundred Regulars at Annapolis, and was collecting the Militia; he appears to be in good Spirits. This Intelligence has been sent to the Presidents of Delaware & Pennsylvania. Can this Manoeuvre be to draw the Marquis’s Forces on this Side James River, in Order to facilitate the March of the Horse to South Carolina; or is it for the Purpose of collecting Provisions & Forage before they proceed for New York; or can they flatter themselves with Conquest thro’ any Assistance promised by the disaffected near the Head of the Bay, which Lord George Germaine alludes to in his Letter of the 7th of Feby. last to Sir Henry Clinton: If the latter was expected, or even the Recovery of their Prisoners at Lancaster or York-town, I should suppose Lord Cornwallis would have acted in Person. As soon as any thing more is known respecting this Movement I shall inform your Excellency of it. I am, Sir, with the most respectful Attachment, Your Excellency’s Most obedient humble Servant, Tho M:Kean President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by McKean. 1 JCC, 21:832. Washington’s letter is in PCC, item 152, 10:183-90; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:445-48. 2 The enclosed resolve was adopted in response to a committee report drafted by Elias Boudinot recommending that Washington remonstrate against the “unneces sary severity” of the treatment of Americans confined on board prison ships at New York, demanding in answer “to know the reasons” that Congress might decide “measures for due retaliation...if a redress of these evils is not immediately given.” /CC, 21:815, 829-30. Boudinot, upon whose motion this committee was appointed to inquire into “the state of the American prisoners in the power of the enemy,” had been commissary general of prisoners during 1777-78. See George A. Boyd, Elias Boudinot, Patriot and Statesman, 1740-1821 (Princeton, NJ.: Princeton University Press, 1952), pp. 33-67, 88-89. McKean also transmitted a copy of the enclosed resolve to commissary of prisoners Abraham Skinner under cover of a brief letter that is dated August 9 in his presidential letterbook (PCC, item 16, fol. 57) and August 7 in the file copy in the McKean Papers at PHi. 3 See the preceding entry. Maryland Delegates to Thomas Sim Lee Sir, Philadelphia Augt. 7th. 1781. The Board of War assures us that the remaining 500 Stand of Arms, & the two Field peices will be sent down immediately— probably the Waggons will leave this place to morrow. 1 We applied to the Board to send a guard, but find it cannot be done. Instruc tions will be given to the Conductor to convey the arms &ca down by the safest rout. We take the Liberty of suggesting to you whether it wou’d not be proper to direct a guard to meet the waggons on the road.
