August 7, 1781 485 I hope Some will be Sent by the first Safe opportunity. I am with the greatest Respect, Your Excellency’s, Very humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 Sherman was chairman of the committee on the New Hampshire Grants that was appointed on July 9, and author of the committee report whose recommendations on Vermont independence were adopted by Congress this day. See /CC, 20:732, 21:836-39; and PCC, item 20, 1:11-13. John Sullivan to Meshech Weare Sir Philadelphia Augt. 7th 1781 The affair of Vermont has been in agitation a Long time. Nothing is yet determined on but I am Convinced the Result will be a recognition of its Independence Limiting it by the West Bank of Connecticut River. A Committee will be appointed to Settle the Terms upon which they may be received—A Report of this kind is now on the Table and will be considered in two or three Days. 1 After it is determined I shall Set out for Home as I have formerly notified you. I am Sorry to inform you that in order to pay off my Arrears & defray Expences Home I shall be in want of a hundred pounds Lawful money & not being able to Sell a Bill at two months Sight have been compelled to Sell one at ten Days Sight, which should not have done had it been possible to Avoid it. If any Difficulty should Arise I hope to be at Home before the time of payment arrives to prevent any injurious Consequences. I have the honor to be very respectfully Sir yr most obedt Servt, Jno Sullivan RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). 1 This report was considered and adopted this day, for which see the preceding entry. 2 For Sullivan’s financial difficulties at this time, see also James M. Varnum to Sullivan, August 10, 1781. Virginia Delegates to Thomas Nelson Phila. 7th Augt. 1781 1 We have received your Excellencies favor of the 25th ult. 2 and are happy to hear, contrary to our private information, that the State hath not suffered in any material degree by the expedition of L’d Cornwallis into the Heart of the Country, and in particular that he was joined by so few of our People. The spirit of opposition being high, we doubt not your Excellency will be able after the Harvest to draw forth a Force sufficient to oppose their future excursions and
