August 8, 1781 487 1 New York had complained that Connecticut citizens had been indiscriminately plundering the property of patriots and loyalists alike on Long Island under cover of commissions issued by Gov. Jonathan Trumbull authorizing the seizure of enemy goods there. The enclosed resolve requested that Governor Trumbull immediately “revoke the said commissions...so far as they authorise the seizure of goods on Long Island, or elsewhere, on land not within the State of Connecticut.” See JCC, 20:722, 747, 21:835-36; PCC, item 67, 2:390-415; and Ezra L’Hommedieu to Clinton, July 31, 1781. McKean also sent a copy of this resolve to Governor Trumbull under cover of the following letter of August 9. “Your Excellency will receive herewith inclosed an Act of Congress of the 7th instant, respecting Commissions granted by you for capturing the Enemy’s property on Long-Island. “This Act was passed in consequence of representations of very dangerous abuses committed by persons holding those commissions.” PCC, item 16, fol. 60. 2 For the adoption of this resolve, which New Yorkers believed tantamount to recognizing the independence of Vermont, see JCC, 21:836-39; New York Delegates’ Memorial, August 3; New York Delegates to Clinton, August 7; and Committee of Congress Interview with the Vermont Agents, August 18, 1781. Thomas McKean to the New Hampshire Grants Residents Gentlemen, Philada August 8. 1781 You will receive enclosed herewith an Act of Congress of the 7th instant, and the names of a Committee elected by Ballot on this day in consequence thereof, respecting matters of the highest concern to your interest and happiness. 1 It will be unnecessary for me to point out the advantages to you or the common cause, that must attend the appointment of an Agent or Agents on your part as speedily as possible, to repair to Philadelphia with plenipotentiary Powers, & to compleat a business in so fair and promising a train. I have the honor to be, with due respect Gentlemen, Your most obedient humble Servant, Th. McK. Pt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “To The People residing on the New- Hampshire Grants on the west Side of Connecticutt river, or their representative Body.” 1 See the preceding entry, note 2. John Sullivan to Meshech Weare Sir Philadelphia Augt 8th 1781 Agreable to Notice given you in my Last I now Draw on you in favor of Colo Clement Biddle for one hundred & Twenty five pounds Pensylvania Currency—& have only to add my Solicitations for the Speedy Discharge of them as Colo Biddle accepted the
