492 August 10, 1781 RC (NHi: Robert R. Livingston Papers). 1 See Thomas McKean to Livingston, August 11, 1781. For the creation of this office and Livingston’s appointment to it, see also Thomas Burke to William Bingham, January 30, 1781, note; Jennings B. Sanders, Evolution of the Executive Departments of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789 (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1935), pp. 108-11; and George Dangerfield, Chancellor Robert R. Livingston of New York, 1746-1813 (New York: Harcourt, Brace and Co., 1960), pp. 135-45. Livingston’s election was also the subject of the following letter of this date, from Duane and Ezra L’Hommedieu to New York governor George Clinton. “This Morning Chancellor Livingston was elected Minister for foreign Affairs—An Appointment which will be very agreeable to the foreign Courts in our Friendship on Account of his Rank, Connections and abilities.” Members of Congress Collection, MiU-C. James Lovell to Abigail Adams Aug. 10. 1781 I am persuaded to believe that I have acknowledged the Receipt of your Favor of June 30th tho it is not so endorsed. 1 I think I recollect to have discovered my Unwillingness to persuade my dearest Friend my affectionate faithful generous-spirited Maria to put herself in the Way of a Meeting with a Stranger prejudiced against me and perhaps prompt to utter her Prejudices. I am sure such Ideas rose in my Mind when I first read your Wishes that I should urge an Acceptance of your Invitation, given I am sure, in unfeigned Politeness and pressed afterwards for a most benevolent Purpose. I thank you cordially for your kind Intentions. But I maintain my former Judgment of the Consequences. I hope you see enough of my Temper to prevent you from ever giving me the real Name of Cornelia or Clarinda or whatever C it was mentioned in one of yr. Letters, now in Boston. The good Opinion & Confi dence of Mrs. L is one of the Chief of the very few Things that are to constitute my Happiness for the short years I may have to live. I have made Communications to Mr. S. A. 2 if not to you that will answer all those Questions which you was restrained from asking thro’ Fear of Rivington. I do really think that no Pique or ill Will against your Mr. A exists here. Whatever has been done that can excite a Suspicion of the Kind has sprung out of mistaken Principles of general Policy. I am not induced to suppose La Luzerne otherways than friendly & respectful; But when he has, agreably to what Vergennes wrote to him, desired Instructions to our Negotiator to act cordially & unreservedly with those of France, the Measures adopted here, in Consequence, have exceeded his Expectations. I wish you not to suffer any Vexation of Mind beyond what I do myself. There is no such Idea here as any Criminality in Mr. A
