494 August 10, 1781 James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry Sir Aug. 10. 1781 When I have been asked here regularly and anxiously, for many Weeks back, whether I had not given you offence I answered preremptorily no. But now that the Question is put to me whether you have not taken Offence against me the answer becomes foreign. The Question is therefore submitted to the Tribunal where alone it can be answered. The Imagination of the Querists supposes the Ground of offence to be discovered in your printed Letter where you use your in preference to my—“nothing shall be wanting on my part to serve the interest of yourself and your amiable Friend.” 1 You have not been pleased to own the Receipt of mine of May 8, 8/9, 14, 29, June 14, 26 goes now, July 13, 2 & perhaps more, tho the last might have been in hand so as to be answered last post. If you should see Genl. Sullivan you would get all our evil-deeds for 3 months back. You must take them at second hand from Mr. S A 3 who will see the Genl. Lee’s Corps have had known Success against Rawdon’s parties so as to make us confirmed that something very fine has taken place at Monk’s Corner. Genl. Green at the date of his Letter reed. Today knew not the Proceedings of the Party sent thither but the Flaggs in a short Passage say the post was ruined by our People. Am I to give up all hope of offensive opperations on the North River to the defective Quotas of New England? God forbid. I am greatly baulked in not hearing from you the Comments made upon yr. published Letter of May 20. Here they say I was speculating. But indeed very few saw or took Interest in the Reading of the Budget catched at that Time. R R Livingston was yesterday chosen Secy, for for. affairs. 4 And a Comtee was the day before chosen to find from agents of Vermont their Expectations & Designs in case we recognize them. 5 This is more graceless now than it would have been some time ago but NY & NH were not then ripe for it. Yrs. affectionately, JL RC (MHi: Gerry Papers). Addressed: “The Honble. Elbridge Gerry, Boston or Marblehead, Care of S A Otis Esqr. Boston. Favd. by the Chevalr. J P Jones.” Endorsed: “Boston 12 Oct 1781. This day reed & Forwd by Your most Hbl. Ser, Sami. A Otis.” 1 Lovell was referring to a letter from Gerry of May 20, which had been intercepted and printed in James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette on June 9, discussing the currency speculations of Gerry, Lovell, and a Miss Dalley, for which see Lovell to Gerry, February 20, March 16, 20, and 27, 1781. Gerry’s response to this letter apparently relieved Lovell’s apprehensions over the possible consequences of making this passage public, for in his October 2, 1781, letter to Gerry, Lovell cryptically observed that “It gives much Pleasure to find that, ‘your’ was a Misprint.”
