August 10, 1781 495 2 No letters from Lovell to Gerry of May 8-9 and 29, or June 26 have been found, but letters from Lovell to Gerry of May 8 and 14, June 5-13 and 14, and July 13 appear in this volume. 3 That is, Samuel Adams. 4 Lovell probably concluded this letter on August 11, because Robert R. Livingston was elected to this post on August 10. See Thomas McKean to Livingston, August 11, 5 The committee to confer with agents from Vermont was appointed on August 8. JCC, 21:841-42. James M. Varnum to John Sullivan Sir, Philadelphia 10 August 1781. 1 O.Clk. Ev. The Letter which you did me the Honor to write of this date, 1 has surprized me infinitely more than the Subject which occasioned my Address to you of Yesterday’s date; Can you suppose Sir, as a Gentleman of Honor and Sense that Explinations should have been sought on my part, into your Reserve, when I acted as a Legislator and you as a Party? I mean Sir, a Party of Interest, not with me. Good Heaven! Is America so abandoned to every Idea of Propriety as to admit that the first Councellors shall apologize to Applicants for a Refusal to their rejected Petitions? No Sir; Reflection will convince you that your Reserve was incompatible with every Idea of Candor; And that you should have opened the Subject to me, and not to my Colleague. If Sir, you grant “the Propriety of the Principle,” mentioned in my Letter, why would you wish me to deviate in your behalf? You give the Reasons, by observing “I have done it in other Instances.” Sir, I am obliged to say, you are mistaken in the Fact. But, otherwise, can my Acquiescence in adopting wrong Measures authorise the Propriety of your Misapplication, or justify me in protracting an Error? Pray Sir, if “the Principle I lay down,” “ought to be invariably pursued,” is it not as wrong in you as me to deviate from it? Your Application, or rather Advocation for a most partial Report, was a total Deviation from the general Principle, in which Principle, you, and every honest Man must agree; That I ever suffered this Principle to slip me “in a Variety of Instances,” I utterly deny. Sir, I do not know of an Instance in which Depreciation has been allowed to the medical Staff, or any Individuals, during my being in Congress, who retired from Service previous to the Resolution of Congress allowing Depreciation To the Line at large. My growing cold therefore upon the Principle, is saying no more than that I was not vain enough to pursue unremittedly an im- prob[ab]le Object, to the Detriment of more important Concerns. “That my Friend should be the first Victim to the Power of my Eloquence,” is a Suggestion at which my Heart relucts! “Is my Friendship watchful to wound a Friend”? Surely Sir, you did not
