496 August 10, 1781 consider the Force of your Expressions. To have called me knave, Vilain, & Scoundrel, would have been more generous! Here Sir, I must candidly declare, that I believe your Demand would have been acquiesced in, had it not been for my Opposition. I must lament, at the same Time, that a false Principle of personal Delacacy would have been the operating Cause! Shall it be said that a Member of Congress can receive Acknowledgements upon certain equitable Demands, to which Congress have not extended a general Principle? No. And I wish no greater Testimony than you will support at a more deliberative Moment. Your Claim Sir, did not rest upon “extreme Hardships;” but upon Principles of Justice; And consequently, you must abandon the Principle in the private Pur suit. This I am sorry to say, as I can not believe you intentionally wrong; but must observe, that Friendship never will, can, or ought to induce a Gentleman “whose Friendship has no Bounds,” to push his Friend upon the Point of Delicacy, beyond his Judgement. When Sir, you mention my “attacking you,” you do me the greatest Injury. When you draw a Contrast forming Advantages, you little attend to generous Feelings; & when you speak of Victory, “fatal to you,” you stab me directly, and in the tenderest part. Be assured, Sir, that instead of “Victory,” I obtained the most mortifying Reflection in my Life, that I was bound in Honor, Conscience and Virtue to oppose my best of Friends, in what I thought the most improper Demands. “In your Absence”? Had your Application been made upon anyjust rational Principles, you could not have been present at all; As you became a voter in your own particular Cause; or, prevented the Representation of a State—But, you spoke in your own Cause, under the Previlidges of a Legislator, And retired after I began to oppose the Report of the Committee. It is therefore assuming too much, when you insinuate that your Retiring should have caused my Acquiescence in a Measure that my Soul disap proved. I fear Sir, I have been too tedious upon a Subject, on which your Letter convinces me your Enmities are too deeply formed. Human Nature has its Errors. I think your Nature so good upon the great Scale, that I firmly believe you have displayed its darkest Shades in this Transaction. And notwithstanding I feel myself greatly injured, without a real Cause, I must persuade myself that your Conclusions are more the Result of accidental Causes, than from an original, habitual or intentional Malignity. Whatever may be your Conduct respecting me, I shall not forget how much the public is indebted to you; Your excellent Qualities and Capacity to render future Services. I shall neglect no Opportunity of impartially serving you, but must ever withhold from you, as I would from the highest Angell in Heaven, a Sacrifice of my Judgement. The cold, the collateral manner in which you mention the Time of your Depar ture, denies me the Honor of waiting upon you, as I intended, a few
