502 August 12, 1781 Judgmt & Bravery. Lee’s Words are “They were soon routed, dispersed & Cut to pieces”—except a Capt., Lieut., Cadet, 45 Men & Horses with Accoutrements compleat brought off Prisoners and one Man of the Whole escaped to be a living Evidence of the Fact. By a Flag from Charles Town we are informed that we succeeded also at Monks Corner. A Vessel just this Moment from Cadiz announces the Capture & arrival in France of the whole Statia Fleet with their Convoy—also the Capture & arrival at Cadiz [of] 5 English India Men. 2 I forgot to tell [you] that there has been a Mutiny among the English Troops at Carolina, in quelling of which 100 Men were killed & wounded. I am in great Haste but with Love to Sister & all with you, My Dr. Brother, Yours Affectly, Boudinot RC (NjP: Thorne Boudinot Papers). 1 Elias’s brother Elisha Boudinot (1749-1819), former commissary of prisoners for New Jersey, 1778-79, was a Newark lawyer and clerk at the Essex County circuit court. Livingston, Papers (Prince), 2:556. 2 See the preceding entry, note 2. Thomas McKean to George Washington Sir, Private. Philadelphia. August 12. 1781. By a vessel from Cadiz last night we are informed, that our Minister at the Spanish court, as late as the 11th June, 1 had made but little progress in a negociation with them; they still appear friendly, but aim at cessions we cannot make; they give encourage ment respecting money at sometimes, again they are disappointed and cannot promise any thing certain; they have however given Mr. Jay liberty to accept Bills to the amount of One hundred and fifty thousand Dollars, but have no known funds appropriated for the payment. In short their conduct appears rather insincere and mysterious. Our public dispatches are intercepted; or obstructed in so much, that a free correspondence is almost impracticable. Mr. Cardoqui was to sett off from Madrid for Philadelphia sometime in June; but his intentions of coming here have been so often an nounced, and the delay not accounted for, that Mr. Jay will say nothing about him hereafter, until he has actually sailed. France acts a truly friendly part. We shall certainly obtain from her, this year, twenty millions of livres; four of which will be retained for Doctor Franklin, to discharge the interest on Loan-Office Certifi cates; two supplied in military stores &c. and the residue be subject to the directions of Congress. I have the strongest reasons to believe that Colonel Laurens is now on the Ocean, and has with him two millions and an half of this money in specie: I pray most sincerely for his safe arrival.
