August 12, 1781 503 It is yet more than probable, that there will be a negociation for a general peace some time this Fall: the Congress to assemble at Vienna. France has proposed that the United States of America shall have a Minister or Ministers Plenipotentiary at the Congress: The Emperor is afraid this proposition may obstruct a measure he has much at heart; it has been suggested, that if the United States are heared by Memorial it would probably answer; but to this France does not seem to consent. The Emperor was expected in June or July at Paris on a visit—The probable consequence of which is yet in dubio. Sweden and Denmark have refused to assist the Dutch with Ships of War; Russia is undecided. Count Panin, the Prime Minister of Russia, is removed. Mr. Neckar’s resignation has been accepted by His Most Christian Majesty; this great Character was not agreeable to the court of Spain, nor to the Officers at Versailles; he is said to have conducted with too much Hauteur. Out of Admiral Rodney’s thirty four Ships, laden with the plunder of St. Eustatia, Monsieur Piquet has certainly captured twenty four; and it is said, that five more have been picked up by Privateers; the Escort, consisting of a 74, one 64 and two Frigates, with five of the convoy, escaped by their swiftness in sailing. An expedition was in great forwardness at Cadiz, to consist of eight sail of the line besides frigates &c. and eight or ten thousand Land-forces; the destination unknown. They were to sail in July, and conjectured to be for the West-Indies or this Continent. By a letter from the Marquis La Fayette of the 6th from Pamunky we have intelligence, that Lord Cornwallis, with the Fleet formerly mentioned, and an addition of Whale-boats, carrying the greatest part of the British Army, have arrived in York river, and landed at Gloucester and York-town, which they now occupy. 2 Your Excel lency is probably acquainted with their situation; however the Marquiss describes the one to be a small neck projected into the river; the other surrounded by the river and a Morass. Genl. O’Hara commands at Portsmouth. The Honorable Robert R. Livingston was appointed by Congress, on Friday last, Secretary for foreign affairs. Georgia has re-established her Government, and South Carolina is expected to be soon in capacity to do the same. I am, Sir, with the most respectful attachment, Your Excellency’s Most obedient humble Servant, Tho M:Kean RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by McKean. 1 Letters just received from Spain from John Jay of May 29 and from William Carmichael of June 2 and 11, 1781, were read in Congress on August 13. See JCC, 21:856; and PCC, item 88, fols. 147—52, item 89, fols. 154—60. Jay’s letter and the first of Carmichael’s are also in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:459-60, 466-67. 2 Lafayette’s August 6 letter to President McKean is in PCC, item 156, fols. 218-21.
