508 August 14, 1781 Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia Augt. 14th. 1781 We are honoured with your Excellency’s letter of the 4th. of this month, enclosing copies of an act of the council of Safety for expediting a supply of hard mony for the Connecticut Line of the army, which we are very glad to see, and of your Excellency’s letter to Governor Clinton vindicating the seizure of british goods on Long Island. This measure he had complained of to Congress as attended with many abuses, and particularly dangerous to be pursued while the intended operations should be carrying on against New York—which induced Congress to come to an advisory resolve upon the matter, a copy of which we herewith inclose. We wish however, for their fuller information on so interesting a subject, that they had had the benefit of your Excellency’s letter, and shall yet lay it before them. 1 Your Excellency will have received two letters written circular to the States by the Superintendent of finance, sollicking the grant of the 5 per Cent, duties heretofore recommended by Congress, and pressing for a speedy adjustment of the accounts of supplies and other disbursements made by the States. 2 Both of which requests it appears to us of much importance to the public and especially the interest of our State, should be complied with. We enclose for your Excellency’s perusal a late act of Congress respecting Vermont—preparing the way for recognizing her inde pendance, and her admission into the Union. The States of New York and New Hampshire embarrassed and alarmed of late with the increasing claims of this people, have been very pressing for a decission, and there is reason to expect they will acquiesce in the measure now adopted. Our affairs, at this time, to the Southward appear to be gaining strength. General Greens support from the Country, which he is now able to protect, increases. Civil government is reestablishing in Georgia and expected soon to be in South Carolina. Lord Cornwallis yet remains in Virginia, but the force collected under the Marquis La Fayette has been able of late to cover the Country from his ravages. Letters have just been received from Mr. Jay at Madrid, but they do not communicate any thing of special importance. One, of a later date, from Mr. Carmichal his secretary, 3 mentions, as a matter he was convinced of from information he had obtained, that a demand from the Court of France to that of Vienna, that an American Commissioner should be admitted at the proposed Congress for a general pacification, was acceded to; but that it does not yet appear when or where this Congress will be held. An Embarkation of eight
