520 August 14, 1781 States, will shew Britain the nullity of such a claim, as to themselves, & the inadmissibility of it, on the part of generous Mediators. 2 RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). 1 For Congress’ designation of five private citizens to raise funds for relief of the distressed refugees of South Carolina and Georgia, see Thomas McKean to William Bingham, et al., July 25, 1781. On the motion of the South Carolina delegates, Congress resolved on August 10 that the funds raised “be paid into the hands of the delegates of the said states” and that receipts be lodged at the treasury. See JCC, 2 For the continuation of this letter, see Mathews to Greene, August 23, 1781. Daniel Mowry to Daniel Manton Sr, 1 Philadelphia, 14th Augt. 1781. I Have To Inform you that we have accts, from Gen. Greene Down to the 17th of July wherein we Learn our affairs Bear a much Better Countance Then they did heretofore, Lord Cornwallis is now at York in Virginia, have Lately had Several Skirmises wherein our people have had the better, the Last Gen Greene hath Taken forty od of the Enmeys men & horse Compleatly Equipted. Congress appointed a Committee To Convean, Consulte and agree with a Committee appointed by the State of Varmont on Conditeons of Commincing a Sovring Independant State which last Mentioned Committee are arived at Philade— Commissioned for the Purpose aforesaid whereupon it is Probable Varmont will Commince a free Sovring and Independant State and Receved into the Union agree able To Consideration of the united States of america. I am here in Comfortable Health, find a very agreeable Companion in my Coleague Gen. Varnum who proves able To do Justice To the State whom he represents. Hope thise Lines may find you, your Family and all freinds well & remain Your assured Freind & Humble Servt. Dan. Mowry. MS not found; reprinted from James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette, September 12, 1781, where it appeared under the heading “Continuation of the Contents of a new Rebel Mail (being the Fifth) which was taken by a party of Refugees, On Tuesday last.” Addressed: “To Col. Daniel Manton, Rhode Island State, Johnston.” 1 Daniel Manton, a Rhode Island militia colonel, had been elected an assistant in the Rhode Island Assembly in May 1781. Bartlett, Records of R.I., 9:402. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia 14th August 1781. The Super-Intendent of Finance has lately written circular Letters to the States; 1 Their Contents have been approved by Congress. We
