August 14, 1781 521 are at a loss to conjecture the Reasons wch. have induced the State of Rhode Island to delay complying with the Requisition of Congress respecting the five per Cent Duty. This Requisition was so essential to the Adoption of a regular, frugal and productive System of Finance, that we cannot enter into the necessary Details of a permanent Revenue without realizing it. It must be obvious that unless we can call forth the Resources of the respective States equally it will be impossible to execute any great Object, while the States who do most will be the greatest Sufferers. It is as obvious that without a permanent Revenue in the Disposal of the United States, we can neither fulfill past Ingagements nor obtain future Credit. The Resources of the Country are not sufficient to carry on the War, without anticipating the Revenues. This cannot be done Without Credit, nor this exist without Funds. We have not a Doubt but Matters will soon be put into such a Train as to settle the public Accounts on equitable Principles. Measures are taking by Congress to enable the Financier to adopt such Modes, as will do justice to all the States, & remove those unhappy Consequences wch. result from a mutual Jealousy. We must therefore beg Liberty urge the Propriety of the Measures, & a Compliance with them. The Congress have appointed a Committee of five to confer with a Committee to be appointed from the State of Vermont, and agree upon Terms for admitting them into the Union. Three Gentlemen have arrived from Vermont ’tho’ in Consequence of Powers granted by that State previous to the Resolution of Congress. 2 Our latest Advices from General Greene gives Matters a much more favorable Complexion in the Southern Department than could have been expected. Lord Cornwallis taken Post on York River in Yorktown and Gloucester with most of his Army. We have the honor of being, Sir, with great Respect, your Excellency’s most obedient & very humble Servts. J M Varnum Dani Mowry RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Varnum, and signed by Varnum and Mowry. 1 A reference to Robert Morris’ circular letters to the states of July 16 and 25; but since Rhode Island was one of six states that had not yet granted Congress authority to levy a 5% impost, it was also one of the recipients of his July 27 circular letter exhorting compliance with Congress’ February 3 appeal for this grant. See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 1:305-6, 380-84, 395-402. 2 See James Duane to George Clinton, this date, note 4.
