522 August 14, 1781 Virginia Delegates to Thomas Nelson Sr. Phila. Augt. 14th. 1781 We have your favor of the 27th ulto. 1 The Delegates moved in Congress for a resolution to furnish our State with some passports for Vessells to import Salt only from Bermuda and load with Indian Corn and flour in return—the motion meeting opposition was committed and no Report is yet made. We shall hasten this business all we can and use our best endeavours to support it. 2 The Allied Army under the command of Genl. Washington continues in the Neighbourhood of Dobbs’ Ferry waiting events to commence operations agt. New York. From Spain we have advices of a powerfull armament preparing in that Kingdom for a secret expedition, supposed agt. Minorca, and that it would be in action in the course of the last month—8000 Troops it is said were to be employed on this occasion. The celebrated Necker, being disgusted and applying for his dismission, it was granted him—whether his retiring from Office may affect the credit of the nation time will discover. It is to be lamented that any disagreements, at this critical conjuncture which calls for vigorous and united efforts, should appear in the Councils of our good Ally. It is with reluctance we request your Excellency to press the Agent to send forward supplies for our Support. 3 Necessity alone could induce us again to mention it; but we feel for the honor of the State as well as for ourselves upon this occasion, and wish to avoid every mode of supply that may be disagreeable to either. We have the Honor to be, Sr, yr. most obedt. Servt. Jos. Jones. Theok. Bland RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Jones and signed by Jones and Bland. 1 Undoubtedly Nelson’s letter of July 26 in which he observed that “the more I reflect on the Resolve of Congress respecting the Bermudians the greater my concern is, well knowing that from them we had the only prospect of supplying this state with the necessary article of salt.” See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:199. 2 Jones and James Madison had made a motion in Congress on August 9 that such trade be permitted. It was referred to a committee which reported this day recommending that eight passports be issued to Nelson. Congress, however, ap proved sixteen passports “protecting such a number of vessels as shall be sufficient to import fifty thousand bushels of salt for the use of Virginia.” At the same time Congress granted Gov. Thomas Sim Lee of Maryland eight passports for the importation of 25,000 bushels, cautioning, however, “that nothing less than the pressing necessities of Virginia and Maryland could have induced Congress to relax the resolution made against farther intercourse with the enemy.” See JCC, 21:848, 870-73; and Thomas McKean to Lee and to Nelson, August 15, 1781. See also Virginia Delegates to Nelson, August 7, note 3; and Maryland Delegates to Lee, August 18, 1781, note 1. 3 Virginia “Agent” David Ross had written to Nelson on July 19 that “our Delegates in Congress having been in the utmost distress for money, Mr. Nicholson has negotiated a loan for £400 for their present support.” Cal. of Va. Slate Papers, 2:230.
