August 15, 1781 523 The loan negotiated by George Nicolson was apparently not forthcoming, however, for in October Nelson had to apologize to the delegates because Ross still had “not established some Means of supplying you with Money.” See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:276. James Lovell to John Jay Sir Philadephia 15 Augt 1781 Herewith you will receive according to the resolution of Congress of the 10th Such information relative to the Surrender of Pensacola, and the Subsequent arrival of the Garrison, at New York, as I have been able to obtain which you will make use of according to your discretion, and the Spirit of the enclosed resolution. 1 I am Sir your Friend and very H. Sert. Signed James Lovell P.S. 16 Aug. It appears to me not amiss to enclose to you a report of a Committee on the 10th as it stands negatived on the Journals of Congress. 2 FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). In a clerical hand. 1 See JCC, 21:854. The “information relative to the surrender of Pensacola” that accompanied this resolve has not been identified, but for Congress’ distress over the capitulation terms granted the British garrison at Pensacola, see Thomas McKean to Washington, July 2, 1781. 2 Undoubtedly the resolve proposed to empower Jay “to make such further cession of the right of these United States to the navigation of the river Mississippi as he may think proper” that was rejected by unanimous vote on August 10. JCC, 21:853-54. Thomas McKean to Thomas Bradford Sir, Philadelphia. August 15th. 1781. Colo. Randolph 1 informs me that a party of the Enemy, or rather Tories employed by the Board of Directors, 2 as they are called, at New-York, have on Friday last taken his brother James Randolph, an Inhabitant of Monmouth county not in arms, as a prisoner; and from their threats has reason to apprehend the most cruel treatment of him, if they do not murder him, on account of his avowed & decided conduct in support of the liberties and independence of his country. I must request you to remonstrate in the warmest manner against this conduct, and that you will make particular enquiry into this matter, and let me know the result, in order that steps may be taken for immediate retaliation. If such measures are pursued by our inveterate enemies, they will before God and Man be solely responsible for the consequences. Our vengeance has been slow, but it may nevertheless be sure.
