August 20, 1781 533 Mercurius. 3 Complaints are Idle. While Gentn. & men of abilities think themselves disgraced by being raised to posts of honor—so long will our affairs wear a Confused aspect, so long shall we want energy. Do not flatter yourselves, do not fall into a state of lethergy and think that your danger is over. I have narrowly watchd the designs and manoeuvres of the Enemy, their late invasions have been with the following designs; To offer themselves to their Friends, To get acquainted with and establish Correspondents in the Country—to discover its weakness & its strength—to Call forth numerous bodies of Militia & thereby Harrass and fatigue the yeomanry—increase confusion and disorder in our finances, destory our Military stores, take off our laborers and thereby diminish our ability to form Magazines, cramp our trade, weaken our power of sending reinforcements to the Southern states—and Establish posts from whence they can Issue out the next Campaign and attack a Country in great force already weakend, exhausted, Harrassed, & perhaps dispirited—destroying every thing before them. These are to me the evident designs of the enemy; and the object of their last Campaign. My advice is to be prepared against such pernicious designs. Organize and arrange your Militia, construct small but strong water defences to retard the progress of their shipping up the Rivers; have Six thousand well armed & well officerd Militia in the Field or ready to take the field in the Spring, have horses, Waggons, tents &c for them—have Magazines of Military stores well fortified in the upper inaccessible parts of the Country, secured against sudden attacks from Cavalry, repeal your tender law and give vigor to public Credit. If my finances will admit I propose to set off from this Place the 1st of October—but in the mean time I desire you will not omit writing to me by every opportunity. God Bless you. P.S. Since writing the above Some vessels are arrived here from the W Indies who bring accounts that they fell in with the French W. I. fleet of 26 Sail of the line Steering for our Coast. RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). In Bland’s hand, though not signed. 1 For the letter to “Fanny” see Bland to Frances Tucker, August 14, 1781. The letters to “my Father, Mr. Banister, Govr. Nelson &c.,” and to St. George Tucker by “the post before” have not been found. 2 That is, Thomas Tudor Tucker, for whom see Bland to Tucker, July 3, 1781, note. 3 Bland was quoting one of the adages of Desiderius Erasmus—“not every wood is fit for a statue of Mercury"—apparently from one of the numerous editions of his Adagiorvm that had been printed by Bland’s time.
