534 August 20, 1781 Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My Dr. Sir, Philadelphia Augt 20th 1781 As it is possible that I may be prevented getting home before the Post, I will just give you the Intelligence of the Day. By official Letters reed this Morning, 1 we are advised that Monsr. De la Motte Piquet has Captured & carried safe into Brest 35 Ships being the whole of the Statia fleet, the 2 Men of War & Frigate that convoyed them got away. Heyder Ali has taken Arcott by Storm after three unsuccessfull Attempts, this City was in the Vicinity of Pondicherry—he put every Man to the sword, except such as escaped by flight, and about 50 british Officers concealed by the French. Fally Cherry another Garrisoned City underwent the same Fate. Porto novo & Pondich erry were then taken in the same Manner. Sixty thousand Moors were marching to Bengal which had thrown the English into the greatest Consternation. Heyder Ali was beseiging Velour the strongest settlement in the interior Parts of Indostan. The Garrison could not hold out more than 6 weeks. The 5th July the sailed for A , 2 Am unfeignedly yours, E.B. [P.S.] See Mrs. B’s Letter. 3 RC (NjP: Stimpson-Boudinot Collection). 1 Boudinot’s information was taken from a July 1 letter from Samuel Parsons at Martinique that was read in Congress this day. See JCC, 21:883; PCC, item 78, 18:411-13. 2 That is, the French fleet sailed for America. 3 Not found. James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia, 20th Augt. 1781. I have been punctual in corresponding with your Excellency since I resumed my Seat in Congress, but have not learned whether one of my Letters has been received. The Vermont business goes on briskly: If their agents had been authorized to renounce their late Encroachments everything was prepared for establishing their inde pendent State within the Limits of their first Claim. But those people have connected themselves so closely with the Settlers of the grants on the East side of Connecticut River that they find it difficult to shake them off. Under these Circumstances we shall endeavour to get everything effected for the future Security of our State against Encroachments, which shall be in our power. I am however per fectly satisfied that much will depend on a liberal System for
