August 20, 1781 543 They are very essential; but enormously expensive. However, let these Corps remain as at present, after joining the two Virginia Regiments; They must also be recruited at large, & not credited to any State. We must alter our System with Regard to Waiters. Officers can readily obtain Servants, if we furnish them with Money for the Purpose; and at a much cheaper Rate than Soldiers are obtained. The prodigious Number of our Brigades becomes an Object of Magnitude, upon the Principles of Finance. A Brigadier General requires much Provision, & much Forage. Suppose three Regiments should constitute a Brigade; the whole Infantry will then compose seven Brigades, allowing Hazens Regiment to remain as it is. We need not, upon this Arrangement, retain more than fourteen Brigadiers in Service. The Idea of Divisions will vanish, & indeed they enter not into the Principles of Grand Tacticks: Major Generals will then command Wings, Lines, & Seperate Departments. We may dispense with several Gentlemen in that Grade; And with a great Deal of Expence. But in these Reductions the greatest Delicacy must Be observed. They should therefore retire upon half Pay, liable to be recalled into Service whenever the Commander in Chief shall deem it expedient. A total Reform is necessary in the civil Depart ments of the Army; But as these Lines will come under the immediate Attention of the Financier, I shall not trouble your Excellency with any Observations upon that head. My Observation respecting Georgia may be taken in too great a Latitude. There are virtuous Citizens of that distressed State, distressed in different parts of the Continent, & I am well informed that they have raised three hundred State Troops at the Request of General Greene, who behave extremely well. The Plunderers are made up of Tories, & some independent Parties, in Nature of Marauders. Perhaps this new raised Corps may be adopted upon the general Plan. We have been so fortunate at last as to elect a Minister of foreign Affairs. The Time draws near for appointing a Secretary at War. There will be a great Difficulty respecting the Candidates. I recollect a Question in one of your Excellency’s former Letters to General Sullivan. Be pleased to receive from me the real Answer. That Gentleman was in Nomination, And to get rid of the Embarrass ment, Congress postponed the Election. 3 General Greene is most talked of, but he cant be taken from the Line. Will General Heath fill the Place with Propriety? I know he sometimes hesitates; but he has many excellent Qualities. How will General Glover answer for Commissary General of Prisoners? Will it be political to promote Generals Greene & Lincoln to the Rank of Lt. General? The detaching Mr. Peters to Camp was a political Manoeuvre of your Friends. He has been a long Time in the Process of Reformation & it is believed, will soon come out intirely purified. General Cornel is an
