544 August 20, 1781 excellent hand—& has been of infinite Service in the War Office. In the Course of Octr. or November next, I shall return to Rhode Island; Previous to which I hope the Arrangements for next Campaign will be compleated. I have the Honor of being, with the most perfect Respect, your Excellency’s most obedient, & very humble Servt., J M Varnum. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Varnum, Theodorick Bland, and Daniel Carroll were the members of the committee appointed July 26 to consider the arrangement of the army for 1782. See Committee of Congress to Washington, August 7, 1781, note. 2 Varnum also wrote “after” above “with," but let both words stand. 3 See John Sullivan to Washington, March 6, 1781, note 4. Virginia Delegates to Thomas Nelson Sir, Philada. Augst. 20th. 1781 We have the honor to inclose herewith to your Excellency a copy of the correspondence between us & the Executive of this State relative to a legal process instituted by Simon Nathan against the goods imported in the Ship Franklin on account of the State of Virginia: 1 with sundry papers relative to a charge against Mr. Gabriel Penn to which the Committee of Commerce request the attention of the Executive. 2 In consequence of your Excellency’s on the subject of salt, we have obtained from Congress passports for the importation of fifty thousand bushels of that article from the Island of Bermudas, which the President informs us he has already transmitted to you by Express. 3 We have the honor to be with the highest respect & esteem yr. Excelly’s obt. & humble servants. Jos. Jones Theok. Bland J. Madison Junr. Edm. Randolph RC (NN: Emmet Collection). Written by Madison and signed by Madison, Bland, Jones, and Randolph. 1 Enclosures not found, but see Virginia Delegates to the Pennsylvania Council, July 9-10, and to Joseph Reed, July 13, 1781. It is not clear why the delegates delayed forwarding this correspondence to Virginia. 2 These sundry papers” have not been found, but for information concerning Gabriel Penn, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:23In.2. 3 See Virginia Delegates to Nelson, August 14, note 2; and Thomas McKean to Nelson, August 15, 1781.
