August 21, 1781 545 Elias Boudinot to William Livingston Dear Sir, Philadelphia Augt 21st. 1781 Enclosed you have a hand Bill published yesterday 1 (tho’ I think imprudently)—it is not all true, yet your Excellency may depend on the Substance of it. I expect we shall have warm work on our Coast this Campaign. Sir Sami Hood with the greatest part of the English Fleet in the West Indias, will also be here, so that we may expect to see at least forty Ships of the Line in our Seas. I give your Excellency this Information, not only as pleasing, but that all our Exertions may be united. This Day’s Paper contains all the other News—except that I have seen the amount of the Value of the Statia fleet carried into France, which is Sixteen & half Million of Livres. I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s most obedt. hble Serv, Elias Boudinot RC (NN: Livingston Papers). 1 See James Duane to George Clinton, August 20, 1781, note 2. Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia Augt. 21st. 1781 I had the pleasure of receivg yours of the 17th. I wrote a few lines by an Express enclosing a Letter to Col. Fitzhugh and another under cover to the Commanding officer at Baltimore giving an acct of the Arms, & Field pieces that were on their way down. I hope they gott safe to your hands. 1 Every thing in my power shall be done to obtain more arms, but I dare not at present give you reason to expect I shall succeed—they are exceedingly wanted in North Carolina. Several Vessels arrivd here last Sunday from Cape Francois— which they left on the 5th instant in Compy with the French fleet consisting of 23, some say 27 Ships of the line & a few frigates. They kept company 3 days & parted off Cape Nichola Mole on the 8th—the fleet then sailing Westerly. The Captns. & passengers beleive Count de Grasse is bound for our coast. Among other reasons for this beleif, they say, that several American pilots are on Board. If this be so, we may expect, I suppose soon to hear of Rodney. The Intrepid, an old 74 French ship, accidentally Took fire at the Cape, & was burnt, most of her Stores, rigging &c sav’d, & a french frigate was blown up at sea, the crew perish’d. Mr. Sami. Parsons writes to the Presidt from St. Pierre July 1st. 2 The Substance—Official intelligence from Marseilles via Malaga, that Heyder Ali Kan had taken by Storm Arcate, every man put to
