550 August 21, 1781 Hudson’s River. The Agents and their Friends contended that the West Bounds of the Towns granted by the late Government of New Hampshire should wholly form the Division Line: but this would have been so violent an Encroachment on our ancient Grants that Congress unanimously rejected the Attempt. From the Termination of the above Line those Grants and the Northern Waters fix our Limits. The Grants are by no means a proper Boundary as there were no actual Surveys prior to the Patents and the Occupants were left to settle at Discretion but there was no Remedy. Your Excellency will perceive that we have been placed in a Situation truly painful. Those who reasoned without Prejudice admitted it was a Sacrifice of the Rights of Individual States for the publick Safety: but they conceived, bad as was the Precedent, it was a necessary Sacrifice in our present critical Circumstances. On these Principles our Title was winked out of Sight, altho’ it was maintained by the most satisfactory Evidence. It will be fruitless to enlarge on this vexatious Subject. A Decision might prossibly have been de ferred: but the Confusion would have increased. Your Excellency will be pleased to observe that the Dissent of our State has been given in every Stage of this Business. We insisted on a judicial Determination on the Right, in the Spirit of the Act of Congress of September 1779. 2 The present Act is grounded on Expediency or Policy, tho’ it is not so expressed. We have the Honour to be with the utmost Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s most Obedient & very Humble Servants, Jas Duane Ezra LHommedieu Tr (N: Legislative Papers). 1 See Ezra L’Hommedieu to Clinton, this date, note 3. 2 For these congressional resolves of September 24, 1779, see these Letters, 13:547-54. James M. Varnum to George Washington Sir, August 21st. 1781. Upon the foregoing System, each Battalion of Infantry consisting of five hundred Rank and File, a very considerable Reduction of Officers will be necessary. 1 I have ever esteemed it a Misfortune that by the last Arrangement a large Number of Officers retired upon half pay, without being liable to a Recall into Service. Rapid Promotions are extremely injurious to the Service. The Appoint ment of Ensigns upon every Vacancy detracts from regular Disci pline, and too often lessens the Number of Rank and File, by the Promotion of Serjeants, who cost the Public too much upon the
