556 August 23, 1781 1 That is, the committee to correspond with the commander in the southern department. 2 For the continuation of this letter, see Mathews to Greene, August 28, 1781. James M. Varnum to George Washington Sir, August 23d, 1781. Your Excellency’s Letters to Congress inclosing the Memorial from the Officers of the Rhode Island and Connecticutt Lines, respecting Promotions in their District to the Rank of Brigadier General, is before the Committee mentioned in my Letter of the 20th instant.' Upon the present Arrangement, their Claim appears well founded; But should the proposed Alteration take Place, Promotions will probably be deferred. However, I am confident your Excellency’s Sentiments upon these Subjects will have essential Influence. I have the Honor of being &c. J M Varnum RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Washington’s August 18 letter enclosing the Connecticut and Rhode Island officers’ memorial of August 15 was read in Congress on August 22 and referred to the committee appointed on July 26 to confer with the commander-in-chief. Secretary Thomson’s journal entry on the subject is in error, however, for he confused the letter with another from Washington of the 17th (a “private” letter to Thomas McKean), and mistakenly identified the committee as one appointed on July 28. See JCC, 21:791, 893; PCC, item 169, 8:171, 174; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 23:13-14, 17-18. James Duane to Abraham Brasher Dear Sir 1 Philad. 24th August 1781. I may think myself bound to lay some further proof before the publick to expose the malice of an Anonimous Scribbler who sticks at no Falsehood to injure my Reputation. 2 I wish you to forward me two seperate Certificates under your Hand One stating the Facts you mentiond to me respecting the debate in Convention on the repeated Attempt to seize Gov Tryon & the Reasons which were offerd substantially against it. I do not mean, nor woud it perhaps be agreeable to you that you shoud enter into particulars. The other Certificate I wish to be confined to your Appointment to the command of the Guard to prevent Tryon’s Seizure 8c the orders you receivd from the Convention, ascertaining that it was subsequent to his Apprehension of such Seizure 8c before 8c how long Before he went on Ship board. With great Regard, I am Dear Sir, Your Affect. 8c Obed humble Servt Jas. Duane
