558 August 24, 1781 and Grammar which may amuse the Teeth of any one of the C’s of your Circle who chuses to search for mischief. I am induced, upon second thought, to repeat what may lag on the road with Col. Skinner. Upon reviewing and securing your Goods against moths, I found that instead of Gauze I might have said Gauze Handkerchiefs for D. Tafts: that there are Buttons, Twist, Serge and something of the Sattinet kind for Mr. Wibert found within his Cloth. Rationally respectfully, Mistriss Adams’s humble Servant, JS 3 MS not found; reprinted from James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette, September 8, 1781, where it appeared under the heading “Part of the Contents of a new Rebel Mail (being the Fifth) which was taken by a party of Refugees, On Tuesday last.” Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 4:196-98. 1 For this brief letter explaining his efforts to forward Abigail’s European drygoods, see ibid., p. 196. 2 See Lovell to Elizabeth Dana, August 23, 1781, note 2. 3 Rivington had apparently mistaken Lovell’s initials “J L” for “J S.” Elias Boudinot to William Livingston Dr Sir, Phil. Augt [25] 1781 I think it my Duty in every great national Question especially that are of general Importance & in which the Welfare of the union is concerned, to keep the Legislature informed of the proceedings in Congress and particularly of the Conduct of their Delegates that nothing of Consequence may be done by them contrary to the Sense of their Constituents. It would indeed be an advantageous Circum stance for the State, was a committee of Correspondence appointed on the recess of the Legislature, thro whom mutual Information might be kept up between the Delegates in Congress & the State. Suffer me on this Occasion officially to trouble your Excy. with some late Transactions in Congress relating to the State of Vermont so called, in which I apprehend the united States are particularly interested, and which in the End are likely to involve the States in a civill war, and to beg your Excy. to lay the same before the Legislature at their next Meeting. When I took my Seat in Congress last July, I found that frequent Applications had been made to Congress by the States of New York & N Hampshire in order to settle the Line between the two States on the West of Connecticut River—by which a Tract of Land of about 100 Miles Long & [5?]0 broad claimed by the Inhabitants as an independent State, would be included in one or both of those States. The Inhabitants stiling themselves the State of Vermont made application to be recognized an Independent State & received into the Union, engaging to fulfull
