August 28, 1781 563 This was supposed by Congress to be a full expiration of the ordinance, and they would not believe but it would prevent any misconstruction thereafter. I shall endeavour to get something more pointed if possible, tho I much Question whether any resolution will be so much regarded in Connecticut as to prevent their plundering, Retalliation from the State of New-York will be the only thing that will prevent it. The Law of the Land is now plainly against it, and I am very sure there will be no kind of Difficulty in reversing the Judgments that have been obtained by the Admiralty, in the Court of appeals, it has been unfortunate for our Friends that the Court did not sit at Hartford according to Expectation. I have frequently conversed with the Judges on the Subject, and find there is little or no probability of their going, they have not received but a small part of their Salerries, and say unless they can get money from the Public, which is unlikely they are incapasitated to go the journey & be absent from home on Expence, for so long a Time. They have advised to have the Cases sent up here to be tryed, which I think will be better for our Friends than to permit them to remain longer undetermined. I have wrote to Colo. Seymour 4 to send up the Records of the Causes of Fanning and Gardner if it be agreeable to them. The Expence of the Lawyers here will not be equal to the Demands of those in Connecticut. I have spoke to Mr. Wilson to undertake the Causes in Case they are brought up. It is my Opinion that the Judgment below, would be reversed if they had no advocate at all; it may however be best to have Council as probably the Captors will, the Court is now adjorned but will sit again in this Place in about Six Weeks. I wrote to you before that Congress refused to determine the Dispute with Vermont on the Principles engaged by the Resolution of the 12th of Sept. 1779 but have proceeded upon the Principles of Expediency, and have proposed recognizing their Independence and admitting them into the foederal Union if Terms can be agreed on, one Preliminary is that they relinquish all Jurisdiction or Claim on the East Side of Connecticut River & Seventy Miles East of Hudson’s River, what those people will determine on I know not, but to me it is pro[ba]ble [t]hat this Tract of Country will be sacrificed and lost to New-York, to answer the avaricious Views of some States, the Conduct of our legislature at Albany last winter & the Influence of some of our Principal People in the State since had greatly tended to bring this Business to its present State. I conclude that I can not give you news more than you will have to the Eastward and in the inclosed Papers. The Prospect of Peace does not appear to be so near as it did sometime ago, and the prospect of taking New-York this campaign is very small, tho’ upon a general View of our affairs in Europe and America, our Prospects are very flattering. I conclude you have thought it strange that the Main Army should
