564 August 28, 1781 leave the State of New-York, which is reported here to be the Case. I make no doubt notwithstanding we may be disappointed in our Expectations of taking New York the Campaign will terminate greatly in our favour. With respects to the Children I am your most Humble Servt. Ezra L’Hommedieu P.S. I shall not omit procuring the Book you mention. 5 MS not found; reprinted from James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette, September 12, 1781, for which see James Duane to George Clinton, this date, document note. Addressed: “Colo. William Floyd, Middletown, Connecticut.” 1 Although this intercepted letter was published without a date, L’Hommedieu almost certainly wrote it on August 28, the same day he wrote the letter to David Gelston that was published in the same issue of the Royal Gazette and printed here as the following entry. 2 L’Hommedieu received two letters from Floyd dated August 16, both of which report the plundering of Long Island residents by Connecticut privateers. The letters are in the Floyd Papers at the William Floyd Estate, National Park Service, Patchogue, N.Y. 3 See Thomas McKean to George Clinton, August 8, 1781, note 1. 4 Not found. 5 In his second letter of August 16, cited in note two above, Floyd had asked L’Hommedieu to bring him “one of those Books printed in Philadelphia that Contains all the Constitutions of the Several States,” for which see James Madison to Thomas Jefferson, May 5, 1781, note 1. Ezra L’Hommedieu to David Gelston Dear Sir, 1 Philadelphia, August 28, 1781. I Have this Day received your Favour, and beg you will excuse my not writing to you before, as it was not owing to Inattention, but the want of Leisure; and have now only Time to return you Answer in few Words. I am Sorry that it is not in my Power to answer all your Questions, when we shall have Peace is uncertain, the Period appears to be further of[f] than it did some time ago; tho’ upon taking a general View of our Affairs in Europe & America our Prospects are very flattering; and altho’ we may not get Possession of New-York this year, there is every reason to expect the Campaign will terminate greatly in our favour. With respect to Gov. Trumbull’s Commission by a late Resolve of Congress, 2 he is desired immedi ately to recall them, which I conclude he has done before now. I am confident every Judgment obtained in the Courts of Admiralty on Captures by those Commissions, will be reversed by the Court of Appeals, ’tis unfortunate for our People that the Court will not probably sit in Connecticut soon. I think it will be best for them to have the appeals determined here, as a Delay may be injurious to them. At my Arrival here I found a general Disposition to recognize the Independence of Vermont, and to admit them into the Foederal
