August 28, 1781 565 union on certain Conditions, and to take up the Business on the principle of Expediency separate from the merits of the Cause. I have not Time to inform you of the various motives that probably induced the different States to countenance this Measure, but undoubtedly the Conduct of the Members of our Legislature, at least some of them, last Winter at Albany, has had its full effect here, and I think it more than probable that New-York will be obliged to sacrifice her rights for what may be called the general Good, but more properly to answer the ambitious and avaritious Views of some particular States and Individuals. As to our Finances they are at present very low, owing in great measure to the want of public Credit; it has been a fortunate Circumstance that a Financier General has been appointed with very large Powers, in whose Hands are deposited all our Funds. The New Continental Money issued under the Direction of the State has appreciated in this City from six for one to two and an half the present current Exchange. Since I have been here I have great dependence on the abilities and Exertions of this Gentleman, and altho’ we are now much distressed for want of Money, I trust, if the States can be prevailed on to do what they [are] able, we may carry on the war without distressing individuals so much as has heretofore been practised. I have been very happy in the enjoyment of my health in this unhealthy Climate in the hot season. I have suffered much but not equal to my fears, the mornings and evenings begin to be comfortable, I hope I may be preserved from Sickness, and return in Safety to my family and Friends. I am Sr. most respectfully, Your very Huml. Sert. Ezra LHommedieu. MS not found; reprinted from James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazelle, September 15, 1781, where it appeared under the heading “Continuation of the Contents of a new Rebel Mail (being the Fifth) which was taken by a party of Refugees, On Tuesday last.” Addressed: “David Gelston, Esq., East Haddam." 1 David Gelston (1744-1828), a member of the New York assembly since 1775, later served briefly in Congress in 1789. Rio. Dir. Cong. 2 See Thomas McKean to George Clinton, August 8, 1781, note 1. Thomas McKean to Nathanael Greene Sir, Philadelphia, August 28. 1781 Since I had the pleasure of writing to you on the 26th day of July last I received your favors of the 17th &: 19th ofjuly, and of the 29th of May, the two former came to hand on the 13th of August by Captain Archer and the latter only on the 20th of August; in so dilatory a manner have they been conveyed, though by Expresses. These letters have been laid before Congress, who were pleased with
