572 August 28, 1781 John Witherspoon to Robert Donald Sir Philadelphia Aug. 28. 1781 Yesterday I was favoured with yours of the 15th by Post. It would give me great Pleasure to contribute any thing to the Benefit of Mr Pagan 1 or his family, I have therefore written the enclosed Letter to Govr Neilson 2 & hope you will find no Difficulty in effecting what you desire. Should tbeir be any Difficulty with you if Mr Pagan could find the Way here he could be immediately admitted a Citizen & then he would be entitled to this same Privilege in Virginia by the Confederation. I should be glad to know the present Situation of Mr Pagan himself 3 & family. He & I were concerned some years ago in some Land and there is a valuable Property of his in Rygate on Connecti cut River in the State of Vermont which I am affraid he is in some Danger of having taken from him as a british Subject, there is also a considerable Quantity of Land belonging to us in Nova Scotia which is in a like Danger. I sent him a Letter upon this Subject Some time ago but have heard nothing from him. If you have any Way of communicating with him you might let him know. His Right to the Land on Nova Scotia is in my Hand as being indeed in Common between us & I am ready to deposit his wherever he or his Friends think proper. I am Sir, your most obedt humble Servant J no Witherspoon P.S. You will please to cover, direct & Seal the Letter to the Governor. RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). Addressed: “Mr. Robert Donald, Mercht Petersburgh.” 1 David Pagan, a nephew of Robert Donald and the son of John Pagan, a Glasgow merchant who was a partner with Witherspoon in several land ventures including ownership of one-half the township of Ryegate, Vt., and 40,000 acres in Nova Scotia. See Edward Miller and Frederic Wells, History of Rhygate, Vermont (St. Johnsbury, Vt.: The Caledonian Co., 1913), pp. 10-14, 36-40; and Bernard Bailyn, Voyagers to the West: A Passage in the Peopling of America on the Eve of the Revolution (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1986), pp. 390-97, 610. 2 The following letter of this date to Virginia governor Thomas Nelson is also in the Dreer Collection, PHi. “1 am informed there is a young Gentleman not more than 19 Years of Age named David Pagan a Son of a very worthy Friend of mine in Glasgow who was with an Uncle in Virginia [in] 1775 but then went home & finished his Education. He was sent out to Charles town by his Friends, has come to Portsmouth in your State & wants very much to come out & become a Subject of the State of Virginia. His Uncle in Petersburgh [i.e., Robert Donald] I suppose will lay the Matter before your Excellency & from the Circumstances I should think there can be no Difficulty in granting his Request. I will take it as a very particular favour if you will give Directions in what Manner he should proceed as you best know the laws of Virginia with respect to Citizenship. “We have all here been long in much Concern for the Situation of Virginia but I
