LIBRARY 

UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA 
DAVIS 


THE  CONNOISSEUR'S  FEDERAL  EDI- 
TION OF  THE  WORKS  OF  ALEXANDER 
HAMILTON  IS  LIMITED  TO  FOUR  HUN- 
DRED SIGNED  AND  NUMBERED  SETS  OF 
WHICH  THIS  IS  NUMBER  _^/^/_ 

C/T  V\   ffu^ut^^t^fnt^ 


ark 


Itxm 


IT.I 


John  Adams 

After  the  painting  by  Copley 


xrrk0 


tn 


The  Works  of 

Alexander  Hamilton 


Edited  by 
Henry  Cabot  Lodge 


"  The  sacred  rights  of  mankind  are  not  to  be  rummaged  for  among  old  parchments  or 
musty  records.  They  are  written,  as  with  a  sunbeam,  in  the  whole  volume  of  human  nature, 
by  the  hand  of  the  Divinity  itself,  and  can  never  be  erased  or  obscured  by  mortal  power." 

[HAMILTON—  The  Farmer  Refuted,  1775,  ^t.  i8.J 

"  We  are  laboring  hard  to  establish  in  this  country  principles  more  and  more  national, 
and  free  from  all  foreign  ingredients,  so  that  we  may  be  neither  4  Greeks  nor  Trojans,'  but 
truly  Americans."— [HAMILTON  TO  KING,  1796,  fc\..  39.] 


Volume  VII 


G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons 

New  York  and   London 

Gbe  Ikmcherbochcr  press 

1904 


LIBRARY 


Ube  imicfeerbocfcer  press,  Hew 


CONTENTS 


MILITARY  PAPERS — Continued: 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY 3 

HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON       ....  6 

WASHINGTON  TO  MCHENRY        ....  6 

HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON       ....  38 

HAMILTON  TO  GUNN 41 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY    .....  42 

HAMILTON  TO  GUNN 45 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY 47 

MEASURES  OF  DEFENCE 48 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY 50 

HAMILTON  TO 61 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY    .....  62 

HAMILTON  TO  WILKINSON 64 

HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON       ....  67 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY    .....  69 
PLAN    FOR    THE  PROVIDING   AND   ISSUING  OF 

MILITARY  SUPPLIES 70 

HAMILTON  TO  WILKINSON 75 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY 76 

HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON       .         .         .         .  77 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY    .....  80 

HAMILTON  TO  HAMTRANCK         .         .         .         .  82 

CIRCULAR 83 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY 85 

HAMILTON  TO  COL.  STEVENS      ....  86 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY    .....  87 

HAMILTON  TO  HAMTRANCK         ....  89 


iv  Contents 

PAGE 

MILITARY  PAPERS — Continued: 

HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON        ....         90 

HAMILTON  TO ....  92 

HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON  ....  92 
HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY  .....  94 

HAMILTON  TO .....         96 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY    .....         97 

HAMILTON  TO  SECRETARY  OF  WAR     .         .         .       100 
HAMILTON  TO  STODDERT    .....       102 

HAMILTON  TO  COLONEL  SMITH  ....       102 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY    .....       103 

HAMILTON  TO  HARRISON    .         .         .         .         .no 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY    .         .         .         .         .in 

CIRCULAR  .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .in 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY    .         .         .         .         .113 

CIRCULAR 116 

HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON       .         .         .         .117 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY 125 

HAMILTON  TO  COLONEL  MOORE  ....  140 
HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY  .....  141 
HAMILTON  TO  COLONEL  MOORB  ....  147 
HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY  .....  149 
HAMILTON  TO  CALEB  GIBBS  .  .  .  .159 

HAMILTON  TO  WILKINSON 160 

HAMILTON  TO  COLONEL  SMITH  .         .         .         .170 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY 170 

HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON       .         .         .         .174 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY 179 

HAMILTON  TO  GENERAL  PINCKNEY  .  .  .  190 
GENERAL  ORDER  ......  191 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY 194 

HAMILTON  TO  COLONEL  SMITH  ....       196 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY    .....       197 

THE  STEP  .......       200 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY    .....       203 

HAMILTON  TO  DENOAILLES        ....       207 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY    .  208 


Contents  v 


PAGE 


MILITARY  PAPERS — Continued: 

HAMILTON  TO  COLONEL  SMITH  .  .  .  .211 
HAMILTON  TO  DENOAILLES  .  .  .  .212 
HAMILTON  TO  GENERAL  PINCKNEY  .  .  .  213 

HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 215 

HAMILTON  TO  ADAMS  .....  216 
HAMILTON  TO  CALEB  SWAN  ....  218 
HAMILTON  TO  RIVARDI  .  .  .  .  .221 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY 221 

GENERAL  ORDER 224 

HAMILTON  TO  MCHENRY 224 

THE  JEFFERSON  CONTROVERSY: 

AN  AMERICAN 230 

AMICUS 244 

CATULLUS  TO  ARISTIDES 247 

METELLUS 283 

CATULLUS 288 

A  PLAIN  HONEST  MAN 301 

HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON       .        .        .        .303 

THE  ADAMS  CONTROVERSY: 

JOHN  ADAMS 309 

HAMILTON  TO  ADAMS 364 

THE  REYNOLDS  PAMPHLET 369 

APPENDIX  .         .         .412 


MILITARY  PAPERS— Continued 


TOL.  VII.— I. 


MILITARY  PAPERS— Continued 

HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

PHILADELPHIA,  November,  1798. 

SIR: — I  now  communicate  the  result  of  my  con- 
ference with  the  Commander-in-Chief  and  General 
Pinckney,  on  the  subject  of  extra  allowance  to 
officers  detached  on  service,  so  as  to  be  obliged  to 
incur  expenses  on  the  road,  and  at  places  where 
there  are  no  military  posts. 

We  are  all  of  opinion,  that  in  such  cases  an  extra 
allowance  ought  to  be  made,  and  this  even  to  officers 
who  receive  extra  compensations  for  peculiar  du- 
ties, such  as  inspectors,  quartermasters,  etc.  These 
extra  compensations  are  considered  as  relative  to 
ideas  of  greater  skill  or  greater  trouble,  rather  than 
to  that  of  greater  expense,  in  the  execution  of  the 
offices  to  which  they  are  annexed.  Without  extra 
allowance  in  the  cases  in  question,  it  is  easy  to  see 
that  officers  may  exhaust  in  extra  expenses  their 
whole  pay,  and  that  great  difficulty  must  be 
experienced  in  finding  fit  characters  to  execute 
employments  which  may  expose  these  persons  to 
frequent  journeys.  It  is  useless  to  say  that  the 
principle  will  not  apply  where  the  law  shall  have 
specifically  provided  for  travelling  expenses. 


4  Alexander  Hamilton 

But  the  greatest  embarrassment  is  to  settle  the 
rule  of  extra  allowances.  Shall  they  be  left  at  large 
on  the  ground  of  reasonable  expenses  according  to 
circumstances,  or  shall  fixed  rates  be  attempted? 
The  former  is  liable  to  great  abuse,  and  the  latter  is 
not  easy  to  be  regulated  so  as  to  unite  economy  with 
justice.  It  is,  however,  our  opinion  that  it  ought 
to  be  attempted. 

In  adjusting  a  rate  or  rates,  it  is  to  be  remembered, 
that  the  officer  receives  established  allowances  for 
his  time,  service,  and  expenses.  A  full  compensa- 
tion is  not  therefore  to  be  aimed  at  in  the  extra 
allowances,  but  something  proportioned  to  the  prob- 
able excess  of  expense.  This  has  governed  the  esti- 
mate which  is  now  submitted,  viz.,  a  dollar  and  a 
quarter  per  day  for  man  and  horse  for  each  day  that 
the  officer  must  sleep  at  a  place  not  a  military  post, 
and  when  the  officer  is  of  a  rank  to  be  entitled  to  a 
servant,  then  the  addition  of  three  quarters  of  a 
dollar  per  day  for  the  servant  and  his  horse.  This 
to  apply  to  all  but  the  seat  of  government  and  the 
principal  town  in  each  State.  At  such  places  the 
allowance  is  to  be  a  dollar  and  a  half  for  the  officer 
and  his  horse,  and  a  dollar  for  the  servant  and  his 
horse.  It  is  understood  that  the  established  allow- 
ances to  the  officer  go  on  at  the  same  time. 

The  case  of  an  officer  detached  from  one  military 
post  to  another  which  he  may  reach  the  same 
night,  but  yet  so  far  distant  as  to  incur  expenses 
on  the  road,  was  not  provided  for  in  the  above 
arrangement. 

It  is  my  opinion  that  half  a  dollar  per  day  will 


Hamilton  to  Me  Henry  5 

suffice  for  such  cases,  and  this  only  where  the  dis- 
tance is  not  less  than  forty  miles.  The  servant  may 
in  such  cases,  without  inconvenience,  take  his  pro- 
visions with  him. 

It  may,  perhaps,  be  expedient  to  regulate  a  day's 
journey  by  a  number  of  miles,  and  for  this  the  follow- 
ing proportions  may  not  be  improper :  forty  miles  to 
a  day,  when  the  whole  distance  does  not  exceed  two 
hundred  miles;  thirty  to  a  day,  for  all  above  two 
hundred  and  not  exceeding  three  hundred  and  fifty; 
and  twenty-five  to  a  day,  for  all  above  three  hundred 
and  fifty  and  not  exceeding  six  hundred;  twenty  to 
a  day,  for  all  above  six  hundred. 

But  while  these  rates  are  offered  as  the  general 
rule,  it  is  foreseen  that  there  may  arise  extraordinary 
cases  where  greater  allowances  may  be  indispensa- 
ble. Such  cases  must  be  referred  to  the  special 
discretion  of  the  head  of  the  War  Department,  to  be 
assisted  by  a  certificate  from  the  commanding  officer, 
by  whom  the  officer  claiming  was  detached  on  the 
special  service,  stating  the  reasons  and  circum- 
stances. It  is  my  opinion,  too,  on  which  point  also 
I  have  not  consulted  any  other,  that  the  rates  ought 
not  to  retrospect,  but  ought  to  be  established  for  the 
future,  and  that  in  all  past  and  intervening  cases, 
applying  only  the  general  principle,  reasonable  ex- 
penses, according  to  circumstances,  ought  to  govern. 
The  application  of  a  new  rule  may  produce  hardship 
and  injustice  when  the  service  may  have  been  per- 
formed in  the  expectation  that  practice  on  former 
occasions  would  prevail. 


6  Alexander  Hamilton 

HAMILTON   TO    WASHINGTON 

December  13,  1798. 

General  Hamilton  presents  his  respects  to  the 
Commander-in-Chief,  and  sends  the  sketch  of  a 
letter,  in  conformity  to  what  passed  this  morning. 


WASHINGTON  TO  McHENRY,  SECRETARY  OF  WAR 
Draft  by  Hamilton. 

PHILADELPHIA,  December  13,  1798. 

SIR: — Since  my  arrival  at  this  place,  I  have  been 
closely  engaged,  with  the  aid  of  Generals  Hamilton 
and  Pinckney,  in  fulfilling  the  objects  of  your  let- 
ter of  the  loth  of  November.  The  result  is  now 
submitted. 

The  first  two  questions  you  propose,  respecting  the 
appointment  of  the  officers  and  men  of  the  troops  to 
be  raised,  in  virtue  of  the  act  of  Congress  of  the  i6th 
of  July  last,  among  districts  and  States,  will  natur- 
ally be  answered  together. 

i.  As  to  the  appointment  of  the  commissioned 
officers  of  the  infantry,  no  particular  reason  is  dis- 
covered to  exist  at  the  present  period  for  combining 
the  States  into  districts;  but  it  is  conceived  to  be 
expedient  to  adopt  as  a  primary  rule  the  relative 
representative  population  of  the  several  States.  The 
practice  of  the  government  on  other  occasions  in  the 
appointment  of  public  officers,  has  had  regard,  as 
far  as  was  practicable,  to  the  same  general  principle, 
as  one  which,  by  a  distribution  of  honors  and  emolu- 
ments among  the  citizens  of  the  different  States, 


Washington  to  McHenry  7 

tends  both  to  justice  and  to  public  satisfaction. 
This  principle,  however,  must  frequently  yield  to 
the  most  proper  selection  of  characters  among  those 
willing  as  well  as  qualified  to  serve,  and  sometimes 
to  collateral  considerations  which,  arising  out  of 
particular  cases,  do  not  admit  of  precise  specifica- 
tion. In  the  application  of  the  rule  in  this,  as  in 
other  instances,  qualifications  of  it  must  be  ad- 
mitted. The  arrangement,  which  will  be  now 
offered,  proceeds  on  this  basis.  You  will  observe 
that  it  does  not  deviate  from  the  table  you  have 
presented. 

2.  As  to  the  non-commissioned  officers  and  pri- 
vates, it  is  conceived  to  be  both  unnecessary  and 
inexpedient    to    make    any    absolute    appointment 
among  the  States.     It  is  unnecessary,  because,  con- 
templating it  as  desirable  that  the  men  shall  be 
drawn  in  nearly  equal  proportions  from  the  respec- 
tive States,   this  object,   where  circumstances  are 
favorable,  will  be  attained  by  the  very  natural  and 
proper  arrangement  of  assigning  to  the  officers  who 
shall  be  appointed,  recruiting  stations  within  the 
States  to   which   they  belong.      It  is  inexpedient, 
because,  if  it  should  happen  that  the  proportion  of 
fit  men  cannot  easily  be  had  in  a  particular  State, 
there  ought  to  be  no  obstacle  to  obtaining  them 
elsewhere. 

3.  As  to  the  officers  of  the  dragoons,  it  does  not 
seem  advisable  to  confine  the  selection  to  any  sub- 
division of  the  United  States.     Though  very  strong 
conjectures  may  be  formed  as  to  the  quarter  in 
which  they  would  probably  be  employed  in  the  case 


8  Alexander  Hamilton 

of  invasion,  there  can  be  nothing  certain  on  this  point, 
if  this  were  even  the  criterion  of  a  proper  arrange- 
ment. And  it  may  be  presumed,  that  it  will  conduce 
most  to  the  general  satisfaction  to  exclude  con- 
siderations of  local  aspect.  But  from  the  small 
number  of  this  corps  which  is  to  be  raised,  it  would 
be  found  too  fractional,  and,  for  that  among  other 
reasons,  inconvenient  to  aim  at  a  proportional  dis- 
tribution among  all  the  States.  It  is,  therefore, 
supposed  most  advisable  to  be  governed  principally 
by  a  reference  to  the  characters  who  have  occurred 
as  candidates;  leaving  the  inequality  in  the  dis- 
tribution to  be  remedied  in  the  event  of  a  future 
augmentation  of  this  description  of  troops.  The 
proportion  at  present  is  in  various  views  inadequate ; 
a  circumstance  which,  it  may  be  presumed,  will  of 
course  be  attended  to,  should  the  progress  of  public 
danger  lead  to  an  extension  of  military  preparations. 
The  materials  furnished  by  you,  with  the  addition 
of  those  derived  from  other  sources,  are  insufficient 
for  a  due  selection  of  the  officers  whom  it  is  pro- 
posed to  allot  to  the  States  of  Connecticut,  North 
and  South  Carolina,  and  Georgia.  Hence  the  selec- 
tion for  these  States  must  of  necessity  be  deferred. 
It  is  conceived  that  the  best  plan  for  procuring  the 
requisite  information  and  accelerating  a  desirable 
conclusion,  as  to  the  three  last-mentioned  States, 
will  be  to  choose  Major-General  Pinckney,  who  will 
avail  himself  of  the  assistance  of  Brigadier-Generals 
Davis  and  Washington;  to  make  the  arrangement 
of  those  officers  provisionally,  and  subject  to  the 
ratification  of  the  President.  It  will  be  in  their 


Washington  to  McHenry  9 

power  to  ascertain  who  are  best  qualified  among 
those  willing  to  serve;  which  will  at  the  same  time 
assure  a  good  choice,  and  avoid  the  disappointment 
and  embarrassment  of  refusals.  As  to  Connecticut, 
you  are  aware  of  the  progress  that  has  been  made, 
and  of  the  misapprehension  which  has  occasioned  an 
obstacle  to  a  definitive  arrangement.  You  will,  it 
is  presumed,  be  speedily  in  possession  of  the  further 
information  necessary,  and,  having  it,  can  without 
difficulty  complete  the  arrangement  for  this  State. 

The  third,  fourth,  and  fifth  of  your  questions  may 
likewise  be  answered  together. 

The  act  for  augmenting  the  army  is  peremptory  in 
its  provisions.  The  bounds  of  executive  discretion, 
as  to  the  forbearance  to  execute  such  a  law,  might 
perhaps  involve  an  investigation,  nice  in  itself,  and 
of  a  nature  which  it  is  generally  most  prudent  to 
avoid.  But  it  may  safely  be  said  negatively,  for 
reasons  too  plain  to  be  doubted,  that  the  voluntary 
suspension  of  the  execution  of  a  similar  law  could 
not  be  justified  but  by  considerations  of  decisive 
cogency.  The  existence  of  any  such  considerations 
is  unknown. 

Nothing  has  been  communicated  respecting  our 
foreign  relations,  to  induce  the  opinion  that  there 
has  been  any  change  in  the  situation  of  the  country, 
as  to  external  danger,  which  dictates  an  abandon- 
ment of  the  policy  of  the  law  in  question.  It  need 
not  now  be  examined  how  far  it  may  be  at  any  time 
prudent  to  relinquish  measures  of  security,  sug- 
gested by  the  experience  of  accumulated  hostility, 
merely  because  there  are  probable  symptoms  of 


io  Alexander  Hamilton 

approaching  accommodation.  It  need  not  be  urged 
that,  if  such  symptoms  exist,  they  are  to  be  ascribed 
to  the  measures  of  vigor  adopted  by  the  government, 
and  may  be  frustrated  by  a  relaxation  in  those 
measures,  affording  an  argument  of  weakness  or  ir- 
resolution. For,  has  it  not  been  in  substance  stated 
from  the  highest  authority,  that  no  decisive  indica- 
tions have  been  given  by  France  of  a  disposition  to 
redress  our  past  wrongs  and  do  us  future  justice; 
that  her  decree,  alleged  to  be  intended  to  restrain 
the  depredations  of  French  cruisers  on  our  com- 
merce, has  not  given,  and  from  its  nature  cannot 
give,  relief;  that  the  most  hostile  of  the  acts,  by 
which  she  has  oppressed  the  commerce  of  neutrals, 
and  that  which  subjects  to  capture  and  condemna- 
tion neutral  vessels  and  cargoes,  if  any  part  of  the 
latter  be  of  British  production  or  fabric,  not  only 
has  not  been  abrogated,  but  has  recently  received 
an  indirect  confirmation;  and  that  hitherto  nothing 
is  discoverable  in  the  conduct  of  France,  which 
ought  to  change  or  relax  our  measures  of  defence  ? 

Could  it  be  necessary  to  enforce  by  argument  so 
authoritative  a  declaration,  as  it  relates  to  the  imme- 
diate object  of  consideration,  these,  among  other  re- 
flections, would  at  once  present  themselves. 

Though  it  may  be  true,  that  some  late  occurrences 
have  rendered  the  prospect  of  invasion  by  France 
less  probable  or  more  remote,  yet,  duly  consider- 
ing the  rapid  vicissitudes,  at  all  times,  of  political 
and  military  events,  the  extraordinary  fluctuations, 
which  have  been  peculiarly  characteristic  of  the 
still  subsisting  contest  in  Europe,  and  the  more 


Washington  to  McHenry  n 

extraordinary  position  of  most  of  the  principal  na- 
tions of  that  quarter  of  the  globe,  it  can  never  be 
wise  to  vary  our  measures  of  security  with  the  con- 
tinually varying  aspect  of  European  affairs.  A  very 
obvious  policy  dictates  to  us  a  strenuous  endeavor, 
as  far  as  may  be  practicable,  to  place  our  safety  out 
of  the  reach  of  the  casualities  which  may  befall  the 
contending  parties  and  the  powers  more  immediately 
within  their  vortex.  The  way  to  effect  this  is  to 
pursue  a  steady  system,  to  organize  all  our  resources, 
and  put  them  in  a  state  of  preparation  for  prompt 
action.  Regarding  the  overthrow  of  Europe  at 
large  as  a  matter  not  entirely  chimerical,  it  will  be 
our  prudence  to  cultivate  a  spirit  of  self-dependence 
and  to  endeavor  by  unanimity,  vigilance,  and  exer- 
tion, under  the  blessing  of  Providence,  to  hold  the 
scales  of  our  destiny  in  our  own  hands.  Standing 
as  it  were  in  the  midst  of  falling  empires,  it  should 
be  our  aim  to  assume  a  station  and  attitude  which 
will  preserve  us  from  being  overwhelmed  in  their 
ruins. 

It  has  been  very  properly  the  policy  of  our  govern- 
ment to  cultivate  peace.  But,  in  contemplating  the 
possibility  of  our  being  driven  to  unqualified  war,  it 
will  be  wise  to  anticipate,  that  frequently  the  most 
effectual  way  to  defend  is  to  attack.  There  may 
be  imagined  instances  of  very  great  moment  to  the 
permanent  interests  of  this  country,  which  would 
certainly  require  a  disciplined  force.  To  raise  and 
prepare  such  a  force  will  always  be  a  work  of  con- 
siderable time,  and  it  ought  to  be  ready  for  the  con- 
juncture whenever  it  shall  arrive.  Not  to  be  ready 


12  Alexander  Hamilton 

then,  may  be  to  lose  an  opportunity  which  it  may  be 
difficult  afterwards  to  retrieve. 

While  a  comprehensive  view  of  external  circum- 
stances is  believed  to  recommend  perseverance  in  the 
precautions  which  have  been  taken  for  the  safety  of 
the  country,  nothing  has  come  to  my  knowledge,  in 
our  interior  situation,  which  leads  to  a  different  con- 
clusion. The  principal  inquiry  in  this  respect  con- 
cerns the  finances.  The  exhibition  of  their  state 
from  the  Department  of  the  Treasury,  which  you 
have  transmitted,  as  I  understand  it,  opposes  no 
obstacle ;  nor  have  I  been  apprised,  that  any  doubt 
is  entertained  by  the  officer  who  presides  in  that 
department,  of  the  sufficiency  of  our  pecuniary  re- 
sources. But  on  this  point  I  cannot  be  expected  to 
assume  the  responsibility  of  a  positive  opinion.  It 
is  the  province  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury 
to  pronounce  definitively,  whether  any  insuperable 
impediment  arises  from  this  source. 

The  sound  conclusion,  viewing  the  subject  in  every 
light,  is  conceived  to  be,  that  no  avoidable  delay 
ought  to  be  incurred  in  appointing  the  whole  of  the 
officers,  and  raising  the  whole  of  the  men,  provided 
for  by  the  act  which  has  been  cited.  If  imme- 
diately entered  upon,  and  pursued  with  the  utmost 
activity,  it  cannot  be  relied  upon,  that  the  troops 
will  be  raised  and  disciplined  in  less  than  a  year. 
What  may  not  another  year  produce?  Happy  will 
it  be  for  us,  if  we  have  so  much  time  for  preparation, 
and  ill-judged,  indeed,  if  we  do  not  make  the  most  of 
it!  The  adequateness  of  the  force  to  be  raised,  in 
relation  to  a  serious  invasion,  is  foreign  to  the 


Washington  to  Me  Henry  13 

present  examination.  But  it  is  certain,  that  even  a 
force  of  this  extent  well  instructed  and  well  disci- 
plined, would  in  such  an  event  be  of  great  utility 
and  importance.  Besides  the  direct  effects  of  its 
own  exertions,  the  militia  rallying  to  it  would  derive, 
from  its  example  and  countenance,  additional  cour- 
age and  perseverance.  It  would  give  a  consistency 
and  stability  to  our  first  efforts,  of  which  they  would 
otherwise  be  destitute;  and  would  tend  powerfully 
to  prevent  great,  though  perhaps  partial,  calamities. 

The  Senate  being  in  session,  the  officers  to  be 
appointed  must  of  course  be  nominated  to  that  body. 

The  pay  of  all  who  shall  be  appointed  ought 
immediately  to  commence.  They  ought  all  to  be 
employed,  without  delay,  in  different  ways  in  the 
recruiting  service;  but,  were  it  otherwise,  there 
ought  to  be  no  suspension  of  their  pay.  The  law 
annexes  it  as  a  matter  of  right.  The  attempt  to 
apply  a  restriction  by  executive  discretion  might  be 
dissatisfactory;  and  justice  to  the  public  does  not 
seem  to  require  it,  because  the  acceptance  of  an 
office,  which  makes  the  person  liable  at  pleasure  to 
be  called  into  actual  service,  will  commonly  from 
the  moment  of  that  acceptance  interfere  with  any 
previous  occupation,  on  which  he  may  have  de- 
pended. This  observation  cannot  be  applicable  to 
myself,  because  I  have  taken  a  peculiar  and  distinct 
ground,  to  which  it  is  my  intention  to  adhere. 

On  the  subject  of  your  sixth  question,  the  opinion 
is,  that,  under  existing  circumstances,  it  is  not  ad- 
visable to  withdraw  any  of  the  troops  from  the 
quarter  of  the  country  which  you  mention  towards 


14  Alexander  Hamilton 

the  Atlantic  frontier.  But  the  disposition  in  those 
quarters  probably  requires  careful  revision.  It  is 
not  impossible  that  it  will  be  found  to  admit  of 
alterations  favorable  both  to  economy  and  to  the 
military  objects  to  be  attained.  The  local  know- 
ledge of  General  Wilkinson  would  be  so  useful  in 
an  investigation  of  this  sort,  that  it  is  deemed  very 
important  to  direct  him  forthwith  to  repair  to  Phil- 
adelphia. If  this  be  impracticable  by  land,  he  may, 
it  is  presumed,  come  by  way  of  New  Orleans.  It  is 
observed,  that  in  his  late  communications  with  the 
Governor  he  has  taken  pains  to  obviate  jealousy  of 
the  views  of  the  United  States.  This  was  prudent, 
and  he  ought  to  be  encouraged  to  continue  the 
policy.  It  will  also  be  useful  to  employ  a  judicious 
engineer  to  survey  our  posts  on  the  lakes,  in  order 
that  it  may  be  ascertained,  in  the  various  relations 
of  trade  and  defence,  what  beneficial  changes,  if 
any,  can  be  made.  In  this  examination  Presque 
Isle  and  the  southwestern  extremity  of  Lake  Erie 
will  demand  particular  attention. 

The  reply  to  your  seventh  question  is,  that  the 
companies  directed  to  be  added  to  the  regiments  of 
the  old  establishments  ought,  as  soon  as  convenient, 
to  reinforce  the  Western  army.  It  is  probable,  that, 
in  the  progress  of  events,  they  will  not  be  less  useful 
there  than  on  the  sea-board.  Their  destination  in 
the  first  instance  may  be  Pittsburgh. 

The  following  disposition  of  the  artillery  (the  sub- 
ject of  your  eighth  question)  is  recommended.  The 
two  regiments  by  their  establishment  consist  of 
twenty-eight  companies.  Of  these  nearly  a  bat- 


Washington  to  McHenry  15 

talion,  in  point  of  number,  forms  part  of  the  Western 
army.  A  complete  battalion  there  will  suffice.  Let 
there  be  assigned  to  the  fortifications  at  Boston  one 
company,  to  those  at  New  York  two,  to  those  at 
Newport  two  companies,  to  those  at  West  Point  one, 
to  those  at  Mud  Island  two,  to  those  at  Baltimore 
one,  to  those  at  Norfolk  two,  to  those  on  Cape  Fear 
River  one,  to  those  at  Charleston  two,  to  those  at 
Savannah  one,  to  those  at  the  mouth  of  the  St. 
Mary's  one.  The  remaining  two  battalions  had 
best  be  reserved  for  the  army  in  the  field.  During 
the  winter  they  may  retain  the  stations  they  now 
occupy.  But,  as  soon  as  they  can  conveniently  go 
into  tents,  it  will  be  advisable  to  assemble  them  at 
some  central  or  nearly  central  point,  there  to  be  put 
in  a  course  of  regular  instruction,  together  with 
successive  detachments  of  the  officers  and  non- 
commissioned officers  of  the  sea-board  garrisons, 
until  their  services  shall  be  actually  required'.  The 
field  officers  of  course  will  be  distributed  propor- 
tionally, assigning  to  each  the  superintendence  of  a 
certain  number  of  companies,  and,  as  to  those  in 
garrison,  of  the  posts  at  which  they  are  stationed. 

The  permanent  distribution  of  the  troops,  after 
they  shall  have  been  raised,  which  is  understood  to 
be  an  object  of  your  ninth  question,  will  probably  be 
influenced  by  circumstances  yet  to  be  unfolded,  and 
will  best  be  referred  to  future  consideration. 

An  arrangement  for  the  recruiting  service  is  the 
point  of  primary  urgency.  For  this  purpose,  each 
State  should  be  divided  into  as  many  districts  as 
there  are  companies  to  be  raised  in  it,  and  to  every 


1 6  Alexander  Hamilton 

company  a  particular  district  should  be  allotted, 
with  one  place  of  rendezvous  in  it,  to  which  the  re- 
cruits should  be  brought  as  fast  as  they  are  engaged. 
A  certain  number  of  these  company  districts,  when- 
ever it  can  be  done,  should  be  placed  under  the 
supervision  of  a  field-officer.  During  the  winter,  in 
most  of  the  States,  it  would  be  inconvenient  to  as- 
semble in  larger  corps  than  companies.  Great  cities 
are  to  be  avoided.  The  collection  of  troops  there 
may  lead  to  disorders,  and  expose,  more  than  else- 
where, the  morals  and  principles  of  the  soldiery.  But 
though  it  might  now  be  premature  to  fix  a  permanent 
disposition  of  the  troops,  it  may  not  be  unuseful  to 
indicate  certain  stations,  where  they  may  be  assem- 
bled provisionally,  and  may  probably  be  suffered  to 
continue  while  matters  remain  in  their  present  pos- 
ture. The  stations  eligible  in  this  view  may  be 
found  for  two  regiments  in  the  vicinity  of  Providence 
River,  somewhere  near  Uxbridge;  for  two  other 
regiments,  in  the  vicinity  of  Brunswick,  in  New 
Jersey;  for  two  other  regiments,  in  the  vicinity  of 
the  Potomac,  near  Harper's  Ferry;  for  two  other 
regiments,  in  the  vicinity  of  Augusta,  but  above  the 
falls  of  the  Savannah.  This  disposition  will  unite 
considerations  relative  to  the  discipline  and  health 
of  the  troops,  and  to  the  economical  supply  of  their 
wants  by  water.  It  will  also  have  some  military  as- 
pects, in  the  first  instance,  towards  the  security  of 
Boston  and  Newport ;  in  the  second,  towards  that  of 
New  York  and  Philadelphia ;  in  the  third  and  fourth, 
towards  that  of  Baltimore,  Charleston,  Savannah, 
and  the  Southern  States  generally ;  and,  in  the  third, 


Washington  to  McHenry  17 

particularly  towards  the  reinforcement  of  the  West- 
ern army  in  certain  events.  But  the  military  mo- 
tives have  only  a  qualified  influence;  since  it  is  not 
doubted,  that,  in  the  prospect  of  a  serious  attack 
upon  this  country,  the  disposition  of  the  army  ought 
to  look  emphatically  to  the  Southern  region,  as  that 
which  is  by  far  the  most  likely  to  be  the  scene  of 
action. 

As  to  your  tenth  question,  the  opinion  is,  that  the 
government  itself  ought  to  provide  the  rations.  The 
plan  of  furnishing  money  to  the  recruits,  as  a  sub- 
stitute for  this,  is  likely  to  be  attended  with  several 
inconveniences.  It  will  give  them  a  pretence  for 
absence  injurious  to  discipline  and  order,  and  facili- 
tating marauding  and  desertion.  Many  of  the  sol- 
diery will  be  disposed  to  lay  out  too  much  of  their 
money  in  ardent  spirits,  and  too  little  in  provisions, 
which,  besides  occasioning  them  to  be  ill,  will  lead 
to  habits  of  intemperance. 

The  subject  of  your  eleventh  question  is  peculiarly 
important.  The  two  modes  have  severally  their 
advantages  and  disadvantages.  That  of  purchases 
by  agents  of  the  government  is  liable  to  much  mis- 
management and  abuse,  sometimes  from  want  of 
skill,  but  much  oftener  from  infidelity.  It  is  too 
frequently  deficient  in  economy;  but  it  is  preferable, 
as  it  regards  the  quality  of  the  articles  to  be  sup- 
plied, the  satisfaction  of  the  troops,  and  the  certainty 
of  the  supply,  which  last  is  a  point  of  the  utmost 
consequence  to  the  success  of  any  military  operation. 
The  mode  by  contract  is  sometimes  found  more 
economical;  but,  as  the  calculations  of  contractors 


VOL.   VII.— 2 


1 8  Alexander  Hamilton 

have  reference  primarily  to  their  own  profit,  they  are 
apt  to  endeavor  to  impose  on  the  troops  articles  of 
inferior  quality.  The  troops,  suspecting  this,  are 
apt  to  be  dissatisfied  even  when  there  is  no  adequate 
cause,  and  when  defects  may  admit  of  reasonable 
excuse.  In  the  attention  to  cheapness  of  price,  and 
other  savings  of  expense,  it  from  time  to  time  hap- 
pens, that  the  supplies  are  not  laid  in  as  early  as  the 
service  requires,  or  not  in  sufficient  quantity,  or  are 
not  conveyed  with  due  celerity  to  the  points  where 
they  are  wanted.  Circumstances  like  these  tend  to 
embarrass  and  even  to  defeat  the  best-concerted 
military  plans;  which,  in  this  mode,  depend  for 
their  execution  too  much  upon  the  combinations 
of  individual  avarice.  It  also  occasionally  happens, 
that  the  public,  from  the  failures  of  the  contractors, 
is  under  the  necessity  of  interposing  with  sudden 
and  extraordinary  efforts  to  obviate  the  mischiefs 
and  disappointments  of  those  failures,  producing,  in 
addition  to  other  evils,  an  accumulation  of  expense, 
which  the  fortunes  of  the  delinquent  contractors  are 
insufficient  to  indemnify. 

The  union  of  the  two  modes  will  probably  be  found 
safest  and  best.  Prudence  always  requires,  that 
magazines  shall  be  formed  beforehand  at  stations 
relative  to  the  probable  or  expected  scene  of  action. 
These  magazines  may  be  laid  in  by  contract,  and  the 
transportation  of  the  supplies  from  the  magazines, 
and  the  issuing  of  them  to  the  army,  may  be  the 
business  of  the  military  agents,  who  must  be  like- 
wise authorized  and  enabled  to  provide  for  the  de- 
ficiencies of  the  contractors,  and  for  whatever  may 


Washington  to  McHenry  19 

not  be  comprehended  in  the  contracts.  This  plan 
will  to  a  great  extent  admit  the  competition  of 
private  interest  to  furnish  the  supplies  at  the  cheap- 
est rate.  By  narrowing  the  sphere  of  action  of  the 
public  agents,  it  will  proportionably  diminish  the 
opportunities  of  abuse,  and  it  will  unite,  as  far  as  is 
attainable,  economy  with  the  efficiency  of  military 
operations. 

But,  to  obtain  the  full  advantages  of  this  plan,  it 
is  essential,  that  there  shall  be  a  man  attached  to 
the  army  of  distinguished  capacity  and  integrity,  to 
be  charged  with  the  superintendence  of  the  depart- 
ment of  supplies.  To  procure  such  a  man,  as  mili- 
tary honor  can  form  no  part  of  his  reward,  ample 
pecuniary  compensation  must  be  given ;  and  he  must 
be  intrusted  with  large  authority  for  the  appointment 
of  subordinate  agents,  accompanied  with  a  corre- 
spondent responsibility.  Proceeding  on  this  ground 
there  would  be  a  moral  certainty  of  immense  savings 
to  the  public  in  the  business  of  supplies ;  savings,  the 
magnitude  of  which  will  be  easily  understood  by 
any  man,  who  can  estimate  the  vast  difference  in  the 
results  of  extensive  money  transactions  between  a 
management  at  once  skilful  and  faithful,  and  that 
which  is  either  unskilful  or  unfaithful. 

This  suggestion  contemplates,  as  a  part  of  the  plan, 
that  the  procuring  of  supplies  of  every  kind,  which 
in  our  past  experience  has  been  divided  between  two 
departments,  of  quartermaster  and  commissary,  shall 
be  united  under  one  head.  This  unity  will  tend  to 
harmony,  system,  and  vigor.  It  will  avoid  the  dis- 
cordant influence  of  civil  with  military  functions. 


20  Alexander  Hamilton 

The  quartermaster-general,  in  this  case,  instead  of 
being  a  purveyor  as  formerly,  will,  besides  the  duties 
purely  military  of  his  station,  be  confined  to  the 
province  of  calling  for  the  requisite  supplies,  and  of 
seeing  that  they  are  duly  furnished ;  in  which  he  may 
be  rendering  a  very  useful  check  upon  the  purveyor. 
The  extent  of  your  twelfth  question  has  been  mat- 
ter of  some  doubt.  But  no  inconvenience  can  ensue 
from  answering  it  with  greater  latitude  than  may 
have  been  intended.  It  is  conceived,  that  the 
strongest  considerations  of  national  policy  and 
safety  require,  that  we  should  be  as  fast  as  possible 
provided  with  arsenals  and  magazines  of  artillery, 
small-arms,  and  the  principal  articles  of  military 
stores  and  camp  equipage,  equal  to  such  a  force  as 
may  be  deemed  sufficient  to  resist  with  effect  the 
most  serious  invasion  of  the  most  powerful  European 
nation.  This  precaution,  which  prudence  would  at 
all  times  recommend,  is  peculiarly  indicated  by  the 
existing  crisis  of  Europe.  The  nature  of  the  case 
does  not  furnish  any  absolute  standard  of  the  re- 
quisite force.  It  must  be  more  or  less  a  matter 
of  judgment.  The  opinion  is,  that  the  calculation 
ought  to  be  on  the  basis  of  fifty  thousand  men ;  that 
is,  forty  thousand  infantry  of  the  line,  two  thousand 
riflemen,  four  thousand  horse,  and  four  thousand 
artillerymen.  And,  with  regard  to  such  articles,  as 
are  expended  by  the  use,  not  less  than  a  full  year's 
supply  ought  to  be  ready.  This  will  allow  due  time 
from  internal  and  external  sources  to  continue  the 
supply,  in  proportion  to  the  exigencies  which  shall 
occur.  As  to  clothing,  since  we  may  always  on  a 


Washington  to  McHenry  21 

sudden  emergency  find  a  considerable  supply  in  our 
markets,  and  the  articles  are  more  perishable,  the 
quantity  in  deposit  may  be  much  less  than  of  other 
articles;  but  it  ought  not  under  present  circum- 
stances to  be  less  than  a  year's  supply  for  half  the 
above-mentioned  force,  especially  of  the  woollen 
articles. 

I  proceed  to  the  last  of  your  questions,  that  which 
respects  the  stations  for  magazines.  It  is  conceived 
that  three  principal  permanent  stations  will  suffice, 
and  that  these  ought  to  be  Springfield  and  Harper's 
Ferry,  which  are  already  chosen,  and  the  vicinity  of 
Rocky  Mount,  on  the  Wateree,  in  South  Carolina. 
These  stations  are  in  a  great  measure  central  to  three 
great  subdivisions  of  the  United  States ;  they  are  so 
interior  as  to  be  entirely  safe,  and  yet  on  navigable 
waters,  which  empty  into  the  ocean  and  facilitate  a 
water  conveyance  to  every  point  on  our  sea-coast. 
They  are  also  in  well-settled  and  healthy  districts  of 
country.  That  near  Harper's  Ferry,  it  is  well  known 
possesses  extraordinary  advantages  for  foundries  and 
other  manufactories  of  iron.  It  is  expected,  that  a 
canal  will  erelong  effect  a  good  navigation  between 
the  Wateree  and  the  Catawba,  which,  whenever  it 
shall  happen,  will  render  the  vicinity  of  Rocky 
Mount  extremely  convenient  to  the  supply  of  North 
Carolina  by  inland  navigation.  Pittsburgh,  West 
Point  in  New  York,  the  neighborhood  of  Trenton 
in  New  Jersey,  and  Fayetteville  in  North  Carolina, 
may  properly  be  selected  as  places  of  particular  and 
occasional  deposit.  Large  cities  are  as  much  as 
possible  to  be  avoided. 


22  Alexander  Hamilton 

The  foregoing  comprises,  it  is  believed,  a  full 
answer  to  the  questions  you  have  stated.  I  shall 
in  another  letter  offer  to  your  consideration  some 
further  matters,  which  have  occurred,  and  are 
deemed  to  be  of  importance  to  our  military  service. 
With  respect  and  esteem, 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  sir,  etc. 


WASHINGTON  TO  McHENRY 
Draft  by  Hamilton. 

PHILADELPHIA,  December  13,  1798. 

SIR: — I  shall  now  present  to  your  view  the  ad- 
ditional objects  alluded  to  in  my  letter  of  this  date. 

A  proper  organization  for  the  troops  of  the  United 
States  is  a  principal  one.  In  proportion  as  the 
policy  of  the  country  is  adverse  to  extensive  military 
establishments,  ought  to  be  our  care  to  render  the 
principles  of  our  military  system  as  perfect  as  possi- 
ble, and  our  endeavors  to  turn  to  the  best  account 
such  force  as  we  may  at  any  time  have  on  foot,  and 
to  provide  an  eligible  standard  for  the  augmentations 
to  which  particular  emergencies  may  compel  a  resort. 

The  organization  of  our  military  force  will,  it  is 
conceived,  be  much  improved  by  modelling  it  on  the 
following  plan: 

Let  a  regiment  of  infantry,  composed  as  at  present, 
of  two  battalions,  and  each  battalion  of  five  com- 
panies, consist  of  these  officers  and  men,  namely: 
one  colonel;  two  majors,  a  first  and  second;  one 
adjutant,  one  quartermaster,  and  one  paymaster, 


Washington  to  McHenry  23 

each  of  whom  shall  be  a  lieutenant;  one  surgeon, 
and  one  surgeon's  mate;  ten  captains;  ten  first  and 
ten  second  lieutenants,  besides  the  three  lieutenants 
above  mentioned;  two  cadets,  with  the  pay  and 
emoluments  of  sergeants ;  two  sergeant-majors ;  two 
quartermaster-sergeants;  two  chief  musicians,  first 
and  second,  and  twenty  other  musicians;  forty 
sergeants;  forty  corporals;  and  nine  hundred  and 
twenty  privates. 

Let  a  regiment  of  dragoons  consist  of  ten  troops, 
making  five  squadrons,  and,  of  these,  officers  and 
men,  namely:  one  colonel;  two  majors,  a  first  and 
second;  one  adjutant,  one  quartermaster,  and  one 
paymaster,  each  of  whom  shall  be  a  lieutenant ;  one 
surgeon,  and  one  surgeon's  mate;  ten  captains;  ten 
first  and  ten  second  lieutenants,  besides  the  three 
lieutenants  above  mentioned;  five  cadets,  with  the 
pay  and  emoluments  of  sergeants ;  two  sergeant- 
majors;  two  quartermaster- sergeants ;  two  chief 
musicians,  first  and  second,  and  ten  other  musicians; 
forty  sergeants;  forty  corporals;  and  nine  hundred 
and  twenty  privates;  the  privates  including,  to 
each  troop,  one  saddler,  one  blacksmith,  and  one 
bootmaker. 

Let  a  regiment  of  artillery  consist  of  four  bat- 
talions, each  battalion  of  four  companies,  and,  of 
these,  officers  and  men,  namely:  one  colonel;  four 
majors;  one  adjutant,  one  quartermaster,  and  one 
paymaster,  each  of  whom  shall  be  a  lieutenant;  one 
surgeon,  and  two  surgeon's  mates;  sixteen  captains; 
sixteen  first  and  sixteen  second  lieutenants,  besides 
the  three  lieutenants  above  mentioned;  thirty-two 


24  Alexander  Hamilton 

cadets,  with  the  pay  and  emoluments  of  sergeants; 
four  sergeant-majors ;  four  quartermaster-sergeants  ; 
sixty-four  sergeants ;  sixty-four  corporals ;  one  chief 
musician  and  ten  other  musicians;  eight  hundred 
and  ninety-six  privates,  including,  to  each  company, 
eight  artificers. 

The  principal  reasons  for  this  organization  will  be 
briefly  suggested. 

It  will  be  observed,  that  the  proportion  of  men  to 
officers  in  the  infantry  and  cavalry  is  considerably 
greater  than  by  the  present  establishment.  This 
presents,  in  the  first  place,  the  advantage  of  economy. 
By  the  proportional  decrease  of  the  officers,  savings 
will  result  in  their  pay,  subsistence,  and  the  trans- 
portation of  their  baggage.  The  last  circumstance, 
by  lessening  the  impediments  of  an  army,  is  also 
favorable  to  the  celerity  of  its  movements. 

The  command  of  each  officer  will  become  more 
respectable.  This  will  be  an  inducement  to  re- 
spectable men  to  accept  military  appointments,  and 
it  will  be  an  incentive  to  exertion  among  those,  who 
shall  be  engaged,  by  upholding  that  justifiable  pride, 
which  is  a  necessary  ingredient  in  the  military  spirit. 

A  company  will  then  admit  of  an  eligible  sub- 
division into  platoons,  sections,  and  demi-sections, 
each  of  a  proper  front.  Each  battalion  will  then  be 
of  the  size  judged  proper  for  a  manoeuvring  column 
in  the  field,  and  it  is  that  portion  of  an  army  which, 
in  the  most  approved  system  of  tactics,  is  destined 
to  fulfil  this  object.  A  battalion  ought  neither  to 
be  too  unwieldy  for  rapid  movements,  nor  so  small 
as  to  multiply  too  much  the  subdivisions,  and 


Washington  to  McHenry  25 

render  each  incapable  either  of  a  vigorous  impulse 
or  resistance. 

The  proportion  of  officers  to  men  ought  not  to  be 
greater  than  is  adequate  to  the  due  management  and 
command  of  them.  A  careful  examination  of  this 
point  will  satisfy  every  judge,  that  the  number  now 
proposed  will  be  equal  to  both.  This  conclusion  will 
be  assisted  by  the  idea,  that  our  fundamental  order, 
in  conformity  with  that  of  the  nations  of  Europe 
generally,  ought  to  place  our  infantry  in  three  ranks, 
to  oppose  to  an  enemy,  who  shall  be  in  the  same 
order,  an  equal  mass  for  attack  or  defence. 

These  remarks  explain  summarily  the  chief  reasons 
for  the  most  material  of  the  alterations  suggested. 

But  it  is  not  the  intention  to  recommend  a  present 
augmentation  of  the  number  of  rank  and  file  to  the 
proposed  standard.  It  is  only  wished,  that  it  may 
be  adopted  as  that  of  the  war  establishment.  The 
regiments,  which  have  been  authorized,  may  con- 
tinue in  this  respect  upon  the  footing  already  pre- 
scribed; leaving  the  actual  augmentation  to  depend 
on  events,  which  may  create  a  necessity  for  the  in- 
crease of  our  force.  The  other  alterations  recom- 
mended have  relation  rather  to  systematic  propriety, 
than  to  very  important  military  ends. 

The  term  lieutenant-colonel,  in  our  present  estab- 
lishment, has  a  relative  signification,  without  any 
thing  in  fact  to  which  it  relates.  It  was  introduced 
during  our  revolutionary  war,  to  facilitate  exchanges 
of  prisoners ;  as  our  then  enemy  united  the  grade  of 
colonel  with  that  of  general.  But  the  permanent 
form  of  our  military  system  ought  to  be  regulated 


26  Alexander  Hamilton 

by  principle,  not  by  the  changeable  and  arbitrary 
arrangement  of  a  particular  nation.  The  title  of 
colonel,  which  has  greater  respectability,  is  more 
proper  for  the  commander  of  a  regiment,  because  it 
does  not,  like  the  other,  imply  a  relation  having  no 
existence. 

The  term  ensign  is  changed  into  that  of  lieutenant, 
as  well  because  the  latter  from  usage  has  additional 
respectability,  offering  an  inducement  to  desirable 
candidates,  as  because  the  former,  in  its  origin,  signi- 
fied a  standard-bearer,  and  supposed  that  each 
company  had  a  distinct  standard.  This,  in  practice, 
has  ceased  to  be  the  case,  and  for  a  variety  of  good 
reasons  a  stand  of  colors  to  each  battalion  of  in- 
fantry is  deemed  sufficient.  This  standard  is  in- 
tended to  be  confided  to  a  cadet,  in  whom  it  may 
be  expected  to  excite  emulation  and  exertion.  The 
multiplication  of  grades,  inconvenient  with  regard 
to  exchanges,  is  thus  avoided. 

In  the  cavalry  it  is  proper  to  allow  a  standard  to 
each  squadron,  and  hence  it  is  proposed  to  have  five 
cadets  to  a  regiment. 

The  nature  of  the  artillery  service,  constantly  in 
detachment,  renders  it  proper  to  compose  a  regiment 
of  a  greater  number  of  battalions  than  the  other 
corps.  This  our  present  establishment  has  recog- 
nized. But  there  is  now  want  of  uniformity,  which 
leads  to  disorderly  consequences;  one  regiment 
being  composed  of  four  battalions,  the  other  of  three. 
The  same  organization  ought  to  be  common  to  all. 

The  diminution  of  the  number  of  musicians,  while 
it  will  save  expense,  is  also  warranted  by  the  peculiar 


Washington  to  McHenry  27 

nature  of  the  artillery  service.  They  answer  in  this 
corps  few  of  the  purposes  which  they  fulfil  in  the 
infantry. 

The  existing  laws  contemplate,  and  with  good 
reason,  that  the  aids-de-camp  of  general  officers, 
except  the  commander-in-chief  and  the  officers  in 
the  department  of  inspection,  shall  be  taken  from 
the  regiment.  But  they  do  not  provide  that,  when 
so  taken,  their  places  shall  be  supplied  by  others. 
It  is  conceived  that  this  ought  to  be  the  case.  The 
principles  of  the  establishment  suppose,  for  ex- 
ample, that  three  officers  to  a  company  of  a  given 
number  are  the  just  and  due  proportion.  If,  when  an 
an  officer  be  taken  from  a  company  to  fill  one  of  the 
stations  alluded  to,  his  place  be  not  filled  by  another, 
so  that  the  number  of  officers  to  a  company  may 
remain  the  same,  it  must  follow  that  the  company 
will  be  deficient  in  officers.  It  is  true,  that  the  num- 
ber of  a  company  is  continually  diminishing,  but  it 
diminishes  in  officers  as  well  as  men;  and  it  is  not 
known  that  the  proportion  is  varied.  Practice  in 
every  institution  ought  to  conform  to  principle,  or 
there  will  result  more  or  less  of  disorder.  An  army 
is  in  many  respects  a  machine;  of  which  the  dis- 
placement of  any  of  the  organs,  if  permitted  to  con- 
tinue, injures  its  symmetry  and  energy,  and  leads  to 
disorder  and  weakness.  The  increase  of  the  number 
of  rank  and  file,  while  it  strengthens  the  reasons  for 
replacing  the  officers  who  may  be  removed,  will  more 
than  compensate  in  point  of  economy  for  the  ad- 
dition of  officers  by  the  substitution.  This  may  be 
reduced  to  the  test  of  calculation.  But,  though  the 


28  Alexander  Hamilton 

place  of  an  officer  in  his  regiment  ought  to  be  sup- 
plied upon  any  such  removal,  he  ought  not  to  lose 
his  station  in  the  regiment,  but  ought  to  rank  and 
rise  as  if  he  had  continued  to  serve  in  it. 

The  provision,  that  the  aids-de-camp  and  the 
officers  of  inspection  shall  be  drawn  from  the  line  of 
the  army,  is  not  restricted  as  to  grade.  There  ought 
to  be  such  a  restriction.  The  aids  of  major-generals 
ought  not  to  be  taken  from  a  rank  superior  to  that 
of  captain,  nor  those  of  brigadiers  from  a  rank 
superior  to  that  of  first  lieutenant.  The  inspectors 
ought  in  like  manner  to  be  limited,  those  of  brigadiers 
to  the  rank  of  captain,  those  of  divisions  to  that  of 
major.  This  will  guard  against  the  multiplication 
of  superior  grades  by  removals  to  fill  such  stations. 

The  judicious  establishment  of  general  rules  of 
promotion,  liable  to  exceptions  in  favor  of  extra- 
ordinary service  or  merit,  is  a  point  of  greatest  con- 
sequence. It  is  conceived,  that  these  rules  are  the 
most  convenient  that  can  be  devised;  namely,  that 
all  officers  shall  rise  in  the  regiments  to  which  they 
respectively  belong  up  to  the  rank  of  major  inclu- 
sively; that  afterwards  they  shall  rise  in  the  line  of 
the  army  at  large,  with  the  limitation,  however,  that 
the  officers  of  artillery,  cavalry,  and  infantry  shall 
be  confined  to  their  respective  corps  until  they  shall 
attain  the  rank  of  colonel. 

It  is  very  material  to  the  due  course  of  military 
service,  that  the  several  classes  of  an  army  shall  be 
distinguished  from  each  other  by  certain  known 
badges,  and  that  there  shall  be  uniformity  in  dress 
and  equipment  subject  to  these  distinctions.  The 


Washington  to  McHenry  29 

dress  itself  will  indeed  constitute  a  part  of  them.  It 
is  of  inferior  moment  what  they  shall  be,  provided 
they  are  conspicuous,  economical,  and  not  incon- 
sistent with  good  appearance,  which  in  an  army  is 
far  from  being  a  matter  of  indifference.  The  follow- 
ing uniforms  and  badges  are  recommended;  but,  if 
any  of  them  are  supposed  liable  to  exception,  they 
may  be  changed  at  pleasure. 

The  uniform  of  the  commander-in-chief  to  be  a 
blue  coat,  with  yellow  buttons  and  gold  epaulets 
(each  having  three  silver  stars),  with  linings,  cape, 
and  cuffs  of  buff ;  in  winter,  buff  vest  and  breeches ; 
in  summer,  a  white  vest,  and  breeches  of  nankeen. 
The  coat  to  be  without  lapels  and  embroidered 
on  the  cape,  cuffs,  and  pockets.  A  white  plume  in 
the  hat  to  be  a  further  distinction.  The  adjutant- 
general  and  the  aids  and  secretaries  of  the  com- 
mander-in-chief to  be  likewise  distinguished  by  a 
white  plume. 

The  uniform  of  the  other  general  officers  to  be  a 
blue  coat  with  yellow  buttons,  gold  epaulets,  the 
lining  and  facings  of  buff;  the  under  clothes  the 
same  as  those  of  the  commander-in-chief.  The 
major-generals  to  be  distinguished  by  two  silver 
stars  on  each  epaulet,  and,  except  the  inspector- 
general,  by  a  black  and  white  plume,  the  black 
below.  The  brigadiers  to  be  distinguished  by  one 
silver  star  on  each  epaulet,  and  by  a  red  and  white 
plume,  the  red  below.  The  aids  of  all  general 
officers,  who  are  taken  from  regiments,  and  the 
officers  of  inspection,  to  wear  the  uniforms  of  the 
regiments  from  which  they  are  taken.  The  aids  to 


30  Alexander  Hamilton 

be  severally  distinguished  by  the  like  plumes  which 
are  worn  by  the  general  officers  to  whom  they  are 
respectively  attached. 

The  uniform  of  the  aids  and  secretaries  of  the 
commander-in-chief ,  when  not  taken  from  regiments, 
to  be  a  blue  coat  with  yellow  buttons  and  gold  epau- 
lets, buff  lining  and  facings;  the  same  under  clothes 
as  the  commander-in-chief. 

The  inspector-general,  his  aids,  and  the  officers  of 
the  inspection  generally,  to  be  distinguished  by  a  blue 
plume.  The  quartermaster-general  and  other  mili- 
tary officers  in  his  department  to  be  distinguished  by 
a  green  plume. 

The  uniform  of  the  infantry  and  artillery  to  be  a 
blue  coat,  with  white  buttons  and  red  facings,  white 
under  clothes,  and  cocked  hats.  The  coats  of  the 
infantry  to  be  lined  with  white ;  of  the  artillery,  with 
red. 

The  uniform  of  the  cavalry  to  be  a  green  coat, 
with  white  buttons,  lining,  and  facings;  white  vest 
and  breeches;  with  helmet  caps. 

Each  colonel  to  be  distinguished  by  two  epaulets, 
each  major  by  one  epaulet  on  the  right  shoulder  and 
a  strap  on  the  left.  All  the  field-officers,  except  as 
above,  and  the  regimental  staff,  to  wear  red  plumes. 

Captains  to  be  distinguished  by  an  epaulet  on 
the  right  shoulder.  Lieutenants  by  one  on  the  left 
shoulder.  Cadets  by  a  strap  on  the  right  shoulder. 
The  epaulets  and  straps  of  the  regimental  officers  to 
be  of  silver. 

Sergeant-majors  and  quartermaster-sergeants  to 
be  distinguished  by  two  red  worsted  epaulets.  Ser- 


Washington  to  McHenry  31 

geants  by  a  like  epaulet  on  the  right  shoulder.  The 
flank  companies  to  be  distinguished  by  red  wings  on 
the  shoulders. 

The  coats  of  the  musicians  to  be  of  the  color  of 
the  facings  of  the  corps  to  which  they  severally 
belong.  The  chief  musicians  to  wear  two  white 
worsted  epaulets. 

All  the  civil  staff  of  the  army  to  wear  plain  blue 
coats,  with  yellow  buttons  and  white  under  clothes. 
No  gold  or  silver  lace,  except  in  the  epaulets  and 
straps,  to  be  worn. 

The  commissioned  officers  and  cadets  to  wear 
swords. 

All  persons  belonging  to  the  army  to  wear  a  black 
cockade,  with  a  small  white  eagle  in  the  centre. 
The  cockade  of  the  non-commissioned  officers,  mu- 
sicians, and  privates  to  be  of  leather,  with  eagles  of 
tin. 

The  regiments  to  be  distinguished  from  each  other 
numerically.  The  number  of  each  regiment  to  be 
expressed  on  the  buttons. 

It  cannot  fail  to  happen  that  clothing  made  at  a 
distance  from  the  army  will  in  numerous  instances 
be  ill  fitted  to  the  persons  to  whom  it  is  issued.  This 
is  an  inconvenience,  as  it  respects  appearance,  com- 
fort, and  use.  It  merits  consideration,  whether  it 
may  not  be  remedied  by  making  provision  by  law 
for  the  necessary  alterations  at  the  cost  of  the  sol- 
diery. As  there  are  always  to  be  found  tailors  in  an 
army,  the  alterations  may  be  made  there  during 
seasons  of  inactivity;  and  moderate  compensations 
may  be  established,  to  be  deducted  out  of  the  pay. 


32  Alexander  Hamilton 

The  tailors,  when  so  employed,  being  exempted  from 
military  duty,  will  be  satisfied  with  very  small  allow- 
ances; and  the  soldiers  will  probably  prefer  this 
expense  to  the  inconvenience  of  wearing  clothes 
which  do  not  fit  them. 

On  this  subject  of  clothing,  it  is  remarked  with 
regret  that  the  returns  which  have  been  received 
exhibit  none  on  hand;  though  from  verbal  com- 
munications it  is  understood  that  measures  are  in 
train  for  obtaining  a  present  supply.  It  is  desirable 
that  some  more  effectual  plan  than  has  hitherto  been 
pursued,  should  be  adopted  to  procure  regular  and 
sufficient  supplies  on  reasonable  terms.  While  we 
depend  on  foreigners,  will  it  not  be  advisable  to  im- 
port the  materials,  rather  than  take  the  chance  of 
markets  ?  And  will  it  not  be  expedient,  with  a  view 
to  economy,  to  have  the  clothing  made  up  in  the 
countries  from  which  it  may  be  brought?  The  mat- 
ter certainly  deserves  serious  attention.  Our  supply 
in  the  mode  hitherto  practised  is  not  only  very  pre- 
carious, but  must  doubtless  be  obtained  at  a  very 
dear  rate. 

Another  point,  no  less  deserving  of  particular  at- 
tention, is  the  composition  of  the  ration  of  pro- 
visions. It  was  in  the  last  session  augmented  beyond 
all  former  example.  It  is  not  recollected  that  the 
ration,  which  was  allowed  during  the  war  with  Great 
Britain,  was  found  insufficient  by  troops  once  formed 
to  military  habits,  and  acquainted  with  the  best 
methods  of  managing  their  provisions.  The  present 
ration,  estimating  by  price,  is  understood  to  be 
greater  than  the  ration  in  that  war  by  at  least  forty 


Washington  to  McHenry  33 

per  cent.  This  is  evidently  a  very  important  aug- 
mentation. Various  disadvantages  attend  it;  a 
great  increase  of  expense;  additional  difficulty  in 
furnishing  under  all  circumstances  the  stipulated 
allowance,  consequently  a  multiplication  of  the  pos- 
sible causes  of  discontent,  murmur,  and  perhaps  even 
mutiny;  the  necessity  of  a  greater  number  of  wagons 
for  transportation,  and  of  course  the  extension  of 
this  always  serious  source  of  embarrassment  to 
military  operations. 

The  quantity  of  spirituous  liquors,  which  is  a 
component  part  of  the  ration,  is  so  large  as  to  en- 
danger, where  they  might  not  before  exist,  habits  of 
intemperance,  alike  fatal  to  health  and  discipline. 
Experience  has  repeatedly  shown,  that  many  sol- 
diers will  exchange  their  rum  for  other  articles; 
which  is  productive  of  the  double  mischief  of  sub- 
jecting those  with  whom  the  exchange  is  made,  to 
the  loss  of  what  is  far  more  necessary,  and  to  all  the 
consequences  of  brutal  intoxication.  The  step  hav- 
ing been  once  taken,  a  change  is  delicate;  but  it  is 
believed  to  be  indispensable,  and  that  the  temporary 
evils  of  a  change  can  bear  no  proportion  to  the  per- 
manent and  immense  evils  of  a  continuance  of  the 
error. 

It  may  not  perhaps  be  advisable  to  bring  back  the 
ration  to  the  standard  of  the  late  war,  but  to  modify 
it  in  some  respects  differently,  so  as  not  materially 
to  affect  the  aggregate  expense.  It  may  consist  of 
eighteen  ounces  of  bread  or  flour,  one  pound  and  a 
quarter  of  fresh  beef,  or  one  pound  of  salted  beef,  or 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  salted  pork;  salt,  when 


VOL.  VII. — 3. 


34  Alexander  Hamilton 

fresh  meat  is  issued,  at  the  rate  of  one  quart,  and 
candles  at  the  rate  of  a  pound,  for  every  hundred 
rations.  With  regard  to  liquor,  it  may  be  best  to 
exclude  it  from  being  a  component  part  of  the  ration ; 
allowing  a  discretion  to  commanding  officers  to  cause 
it  to  be  issued  in  quantities  not  exceeding  half  a  gill 
per  day,  except  on  extraordinary  occasions.  Vinegar 
also  ought  to  be  furnished,  when  to  be  had,  at  the 
rate  of  two  quarts,  and  soap  at  the  rate  of  two  pounds, 
per  hundred  rations. 

There  are  often  difficulties  in  furnishing  articles  of 
this  description,  and  the  equivalent  in  money  is  fre- 
quently pernicious,  rather  than  beneficial.  Where 
there  is  a  contract,  the  promise  of  such  articles  is 
apt  to  prove  more  beneficial  to  the  contractor  than 
to  any  other  person.  He  commonly  so  manages  it, 
that  the  substitute  is  not  a  real  equivalent.  But  it 
need  not  be  observed,  that  whatever  is  to  be  done  in 
this  respect  must  be  so  conducted,  as  not  to  infract 
the  conditions  on  which  the  troops  now  in  service 
were  enlisted. 

It  is  deeply  to  be  lamented,  that  a  very  precious 
period  of  leisure  was  not  improved  towards  forming 
among  ourselves  engineers  and  artillerists;  and  that, 
owing  to  this  neglect,  we  are  in  danger  of  being  over- 
taken by  war,  without  competent  characters  of  these 
descriptions.  To  form  them  suddenly  is  impossible. 
Much  previous  study  and  experiment  are  essen- 
tial. If  possible  to  avoid  it,  a  war  ought  not  to  find 
us  wholly  unprovided.  It  is  conceived  to  be  ad- 
visable to  endeavor  to  introduce  from  abroad  at  least 
one  distinguished  engineer,  and  one  distinguished 


Washington  to  McHenry  35 

officer  of  artillery.  They  may  be  sought  for  prefer- 
ably in  the  Austrian,  and  next  in  the  Prussian 
armies.  The  grade  of  colonel,  with  adequate  pecu- 
niary compensation,  may  attract  officers  of  a  rank 
inferior  to  that  grade  in  those  armies,  who  will  be  of 
distinguished  ability  and  merit.  But  in  this,  as  we 
know  from  past  experience,  nothing  is  more  easy  than 
to  be  imposed  upon,  nothing  more  difficult  than  to 
avoid  imposition,  and  that  therefore  it  is  requisite 
to  commit  the  business  of  procuring  such  characters 
to  some  very  judicious  hand,  under  every  caution 
that  can  put  him  upon  his  guard. 

If  there  shall  be  occasion  for  the  actual  employ- 
ment of  military  force,  a  corps  of  riflemen  will  be 
for  several  purposes  extremely  useful.  The  eligible 
proportion  of  riflemen  to  infantry  of  the  line  may  be 
taken  at  a  twentieth.  Hence  in  the  apportionment 
of  an  army  of  fifty  thousand  men,  in  my  letter  of 
this  date,  two  thousand  riflemen  are  included,  and, 
in  the  estimate  of  arms  to  be  provided,  two  thousand 
rifles.  There  is  a  kind  of  rifle  commonly  called 
Ferguson's,  which  will  deserve  particular  attention. 
It  is  understood  that  it  has  in  different  European 
armies  supplanted  the  old  rifle,  as  being  more  quickly 
loaded  and  more  easily  kept  clean.  If  the  shot  of 
it  be  equally  sure,  or  nearly  so,  those  advantages 
entitle  it  to  a  preference.  It  is  very  desirable  that 
this  point,  and  its  comparative  merit  in  other  re- 
spects, be  ascertained  by  careful  examination  and 
experiment. 

Perhaps  generally,  but  more  certainly  when  the 
troops  shall  serve  in  Southern  climates,  flannel 


36  Alexander  Hamilton 

shirts  will  be  most  conducive  to  health.  Will  it  not 
be  advisable  to  make  provision  for  retaining  a  dis- 
cretion in  such  cases;  either  to  allow  a  less  number 
of  flannel  shirts  equivalent  to  the  present  allowance 
of  linen,  or,  if  this  cannot  be,  to  furnish  the  soldiery 
with  the  requisite  number,  deducting  the  difference 
of  cost  out  of  their  pay? 

The  only  provision  for  the  appointment  of  a 
quartermaster-general  is  to  be  found  in  the  act  of 
the  28th  of  May,  authorizing  the  President  to  raise 
a  provisional  army,  which  limits  his  rank  and  emolu- 
ments of  those  to  lieutenant-colonel.  This  provision 
is  conceived  to  be  entirely  inadequate.  The  mili- 
tary duties  of  the  office  are  of  a  nature  to  render  it 
of  the  first  importance  in  an  army ;  demanding  great 
abilities  and  a  character  every  way  worthy  of  trust. 
Accordingly  it  is  the  general  practice,  founded  upon 
very  substantial  reasons,  to  confide  it  to  an  officer  of 
high  military  rank.  The  probability  is  that,  without 
a  similar  arrangement  on  our  part,  we  shall  not  be 
able  to  command  a  fit  character;  and  in  taking  one 
of  inferior  pretensions  we  shall  subject  the  service  to 
disadvantages,  out  of  all  proportion  to  any  objec- 
tions which  may  be  supposed  to  militate  against  the 
conferring  of  such  rank.  It  is  feared  that  an  ap- 
pointment under  the  existing  provision  would  only 
create  embarrassment,  should  there  be  real  neces- 
sity for  military  exertions;  and  that  the  alterna- 
tive must  be  either  to  leave  the  army  destitute 
of  so  necessary  an  organ,  or  to  give  it  one  likely 
in  the  progress  of  things  to  prove  unequal  to  the 
task. 


Washington  to  McHenry  37 

It  was  much  desired,  for  preventing  future  con- 
troversy, to  fix  in  the  first  instance  the  relative 
grades  of  the  regimental  officers.  That  of  the  field 
officers  has  been  rendered  impossible,  without  in- 
justice and  the  hazard  of  much  dissatisfaction,  by 
the  impossibility  of  completing  the  arrangement  in 
Connecticut  and  the  three  most  Southern  States. 
But  upon  close  examination,  many  obstacles  op- 
posed a  definitive  establishment  of  the  relative  rank, 
even  of  the  officers  of  companies,  in  the  regiments 
which  have  been  organized.  Numerous  circum- 
stances, which  ought  to  influence  the  decision,  are 
unknown;  and  without  this  knowledge  a  final  ar- 
rangement might  lead  to  very  awkward  and  per- 
plexing results.  In  consideration  of  this  difficulty, 
no  more  than  a  temporary  one,  liable  to  future  re- 
vision, has  been  adopted.  It  will  be  necessary  to 
attend  to  this  in  the  appointments,  and  to  signify 
to  the  persons  that  they  are  to  obey  according  to 
the  order  of  nomination,  but  that  the  President 
reserves  to  himself  the  right,  where  cogent  reasons 
for  it  shall  appear,  to  change  the  relative  rank  which 
that  order  may  seem  to  recognize.  He  will  judge 
whether,  in  making  the  nomination  to  the  Senate,  a 
like  reserve  is  necessary. 

I  am  well  aware  that  several  of  the  matters  sug- 
gested in  this  letter  will  require  legislative  provision. 
If  the  whole  or  any  of  them  shall  be  approved  by 
the  Executive,  no  time  ought  to  be  lost  in  recom- 
mending them  to  the  consideration  of  Congress.  As 
to  some  of  them,  it  is  very  desirable  that  the  neces- 
sary provision  by  law  should  precede  the  enlistment 


38  Alexander  Hamilton 

of  the  men,  to  avoid  the  obstacle  to  a  change,  which 
may  result  from  contract. 

With  great  respect  and  esteem,  I  have  the  honor 
to  be,  etc. 


HAMILTON   TO    WASHINGTON 

Answer  to  Questions  of  the  Secretary  at  War  of 
November  10,  1798 

December,  1798. 

No.  i.  First  and  second  questions. — The  rule 
which  appears  proper  as  a  primary  one,  is  the  relative 
population  of  the  States  severally.  In  the  applica- 
tion of  this  rule,  the  distribution  made  by  the  Secre- 
tary appears  so  far  correct  as  to  be  deemed  an  eligible 
standard. 

Improper  to  tie  down  the  recruiting  service  by  an 
absolute  apportionment  of  the  men  among  the 
States. 

The  officers  will  naturally  be  assigned  to  recruit  in 
the  States  of  which  they  are ;  if  the  men  can  be  found 
there  they  will  be  had;  but  it  is  possible  they  may 
not  be  obtainable,  and  there  ought  to  be  liberty  to 
obtain  them  elsewhere. 

The  troops  of  horse  not  to  be  confined  to  any 
division  of  the  United  States ;  but  an  exact  distribu- 
tion of  so  small  a  number  would  be  inconvenient.  It 
is  therefore  deemed  proper  to  let  the  arrangement  be 
governed  principally  by  the  characters  who  have 
occurred  as  officers.  It  is  proposed  to  assign  Vir- 
ginia and  Maryland  3  troops;  Pennsylvania  i;  New 
Jersey  i ;  New  York  and  Connecticut  i. 


Hamilton  to  Washington  39 

The  number  of  horse  inadequate.  Presuming  that 
an  increase  will  be  found  eligible,  the  distribution 
can  be  made  with  an  idea  to  the  other  States.  Con- 
sideration has  been  had  as  a  secondary  motive  to  the 
fitness  of  character. 

Third  question. — The  fact  solves  this  question. 

Fourth  question. — Provisions  of  law  peremptory. 
Will  not  examine  bounds  of  executive  discretion; 
but  it  must  be  evident  that  a  suspension  cannot  be 
justified  but  by  a  very  urgent  motive.  None  such 
are  known  to  exist. 

Nothing  has  been  communicated  as  to  foreign  re- 
lations, to  induce  an  opinion  that  the  ground  upon 
which  the  act  for  augmenting  the  army  was  passed, 
has  been  changed.  As  far  as  can  be  inferred  from 
the  Treasury  documents  communicated,  no  ob- 
stacle is  perceived  to  arise  from  financial  considera- 
tions; but  this  is  a  point  on  which  it  cannot  be 
expected  that  the  responsibility  of  any  definitive 
opinion  will  be  assumed.  The  head  of  the  proper 
department  will  no  doubt  explicitly  pronounce. 

Fifth  question. — The  opinion  is,  that  they  ought 
all  to  be  immediately  appointed,  and  immediately  to 
receive  their  pay  and  be  put  into  activity.  This  is 
with  the  exception,  from  want  of  adequate  informa- 
tion, of  the  two  Carolinas,  Georgia,  and  Tennessee. 

It  is  conceived  that  it  will  be  expedient  to  confide 
to  General  Pinckney,  with  the  aid  of  Generals  Davis 
and  Washington,  to  prepare  the  arrangement  for 
these  States,  subject  to  the  ratification  of  the  Presi- 
dent, but  with  as  large  a  discretion  to  fix  the 
arrangement  as  propriety  will  permit. 


40  Alexander  Hamilton 

Sixth  question. — Inexpedient  at  present  to  with- 
draw the  troops  in  question,  with  a  view  to  reinforce 
those  on  the  sea-board.  But  our  whole  plan  on 
the  northwestern  and  southwestern  frontier  may  re- 
quire revision,  and  it  is  deemed  eligible  to  require 
General  Wilkinson  to  repair  as  soon  as  possible  to 
the  seat  of  the  government,  in  order  that  it  may  have 
the  benefit  of  his  local  knowledge  and  advice.  He 
should  be  cautioned  to  avoid  any  demonstrations 
of  hostility  towards  the  Spaniard;  but,  on  the 
contrary,  as  far  as  may  be,  to  assume  a  different 
complexion. 

Seventh  question. — It  is  conceived  best  that  the 
additional  companies  shall  reinforce  the  Western 
army. 

Eighth  question. — As  to  artillery.  It  is  under- 
stood that  the  two  regiments  comprise  twenty-eight 
companies;  that  of  these,  eight  are  in  the  Western 
country.  The  remaining  companies  may  tempo- 
rarily be  thus  disposed  of:  one  to  Boston,  three  to 
Newport,  one  to  West  Point,  three  to  New  York,  two 
to  Fort  Mifflin,  two  to  Baltimore,  two  to  Norfolk,  one 
to  Cape  Fear  River,  three  to  Charleston,  one  to 
Savannah,  one  to  St.  Mary's. 

It  is  desirable  that  entire  companies  be  stationed, 
and  the  mingling  of  different  corps  be  avoided.  The 
field  officers  will,  of  course,  be  distributed  propor- 
tionally. 

Ninth  question. — The  permanent  distribution  of 
the  troops  after  they  shall  have  been  raised,  may  be 
influenced  by  circumstances  yet  to  be  developed. 
The  first  object  of  attention  is  the  distribution,  with 


Hamilton  to  Gunn  41 

a  view  to  the  recruiting  service.  To  this  end,  each 
State  should  be  divided  into  districts,  equal  to  the 
number  of  companies  to  be  recruited  therein.  The 
men  to  be  brought  to  the  company  rendezvous  as 
soon  as  may  be  after  they  are  recruited;  and  a 
certain  number  of  these  rendezvous,  where  it  can 
conveniently  be  done,  to  be  put  under  the  superin- 
tendence of  a  field  officer.  During  the  winter  it 
would  be  inconvenient,  in  most  of  the  States,  to 
assemble  in  larger  corps  than  companies. 

Tenth  question. — The  public  ought  to  provide  the 
rations  by  contract  or  otherwise,  as  it  may  be  found 
best. 

The  giving  money  to  the  recruit  would  have  many 
inconveniences,  by  giving  pretext  of  absence  to  pro- 
vide supply,  unfavorable  to  discipline,  tending  to 
disputes  with  the  inhabitants,  and  to  desertion. 
Many  of  the  men  will  apply  their  money  to  strong 
drink,  rather  than  to  food. 

Eleventh  question. — Contracts  for  stationary  posts 
are  to  be  preferred;  but  for  an  army  operating  in  the 
field,  purchasing  is  to  be  preferred,  except  that  the 
magazines,  which  are  to  be  formed  at  particular 
places,  may  be  best  formed  by  contract. 

Twelfth  question. — Springfield,  Harper's  Ferry, 
Rocky  Mount  on  the  Wateree. 


HAMILTON    TO    GUNN 

NEW  YORK,  December  16,  1798. 

DEAR  SIR: 

I  regretted  that  my  excessive  avocations  did  not 
permit  me,  as  I  intended,  to  call  upon  you  before 


42  Alexander  Hamilton 

I  left  Philadelphia.  In  addition  to  the  pleasure  of 
doing  it,  I  was  desirous  of  knowing  the  state  of  your 
mind  with  regard  to  military  service.  It  was  not 
that  there  was  any  thing  worth  your  acceptance, 
upon  the  disposal  of  which  at  the  time  I  could  have 
had  any  influence ;  but  I  wished  to  understand  what 
would  be  agreeable  to  you,  with  a  view  to  the  pro- 
gress of  affairs.  If  we  are  to  be  seriously  engaged  in 
military  operations,  't  is  not  a  compliment  to  you  to 
say  that  you  are  one  of  those  men  who  must  be  in 
the  field.  With  such  an  enemy,  we  shall  want  men 
who  will  not  barely  do  their  duty,  but  will  do  it  with 
an  energy  equal  to  all  dangers. 

With  very  great  regard,  etc. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  December  16,  1798. 

DEAR  SIR: 

I  regretted  that  I  was  detained  to  the  last  moment 
of  being  in  time  for  the  stage  in  which  my  baggage 
had  been  previously  sent,  and  thereby  prevented 
from  calling  upon  you  before  my  final  departure 
from  Philadelphia. 

If  the  recruiting  service  is  to  be  confided  to  me,  I 
ought,  as  soon  as  possible,  to  be  definitely  apprised 
of  it,  and  in  the  meantime  I  shall  be  glad  to  have  the 
instructions  heretofore  prepared  for  that  purpose, 
that  I  may  endeavor  to  obtain,  for  your  final  deci- 
sion, new  lights  from  officers  who  have  had  experi- 
ence in  this  branch  of  the  service.  My  own  was  very 
limited,  and  it  is  of  great  importance  to  proceed  upon 
a  right  plan. 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  43 

You  recollect  that,  shortly  after  my  first  appoint- 
ment, I  was  desired  to  turn  my  attention  to  a  system 
of  regulations  for  the  tactics  and  discipline  of  the 
army.  From  that  moment  I  have  devoted  much  of 
my  time  to  the  preliminary  investigations,  and  I 
shall  devote  a  much  larger  proportion,  if  I  am  to 
consider  myself  as  now  in  service,  and  entitled  to 
the  emoluments  of  the  station;  for,  to  be  frank  with 
you,  it  is  utterly  out  of  my  power  to  apply  my  time 
to  the  public  service  without  the  compensations, 
scanty  enough,  which  the  law  annexes  to  the  office. 
If  I  were  to  receive  them  from  the  day  of  the  ap- 
pointment, I  should  be  at  least  a  thousand  pounds 
the  worse  for  my  acceptance.  From  the  time  that 
it  was  fully  known  that  I  had  re-engaged  in  military 
life,  the  uncertainty  of  my  being  able  to  render  ser- 
vices for  which  I  might  be  retained  drove  away  more 
than  one  half  of  my  professional  practice,  which  I 
may  moderately  estimate  at  four  thousand  pounds  a 
year.  My  pecuniary  sacrifices  already  to  the  public 
ought  to  produce  the  reverse  of  a  disposition  every- 
where to  compel  me  to  greater  than  the  law  imposes. 
This  remark,  I  am  well  aware,  is  not  necessary  for 
you  personally. 

Again,  If  I  am  to  discharge  with  effect  the  duties 
of  my  present  office,  I  must  make  frequent  journeys 
from  one  part  of  the  army  to  another.  Everybody 
knows  that  the  expenses  of  such  journeys  would 
quickly  eat  out  the  narrow  allowances  of  a  major- 
general. 

It  will  be  disagreeable  to  be  exposed  to  the  dilemma 
of  compromitting  my  reputation  and  that  of  the 


44  Alexander  Hamilton 

government  by  not  producing  the  results  to  be  ex- 
pected from  the  department,  or  of  ruining  myself 
once  more  in  performing  services  for  which  there  is 
no  adequate  compensation. 

The  precedent  of  the  last  war  is  a  full  comment  on 
the  propriety  of  an  extra  allowance  to  the  inspector- 
general.  It  is  indeed  indispensable,  if  he  is  to  be 
useful. 

It  is  always  disagreeable  to  speak  of  compensations 
for  one's  self,  but  a  man  past  forty,  with  a  wife  and 
six  children,  and  a  very  small  property  beforehand, 
is  compelled  to  waive  the  scruples  which  his  nicety 
would  otherwise  dictate. 

With  great  esteem  and  regard,  I  remain,  etc. 

P.  S. — I  imagine  it  may  be  of  service  to  communi- 
cate to  Wolcott  the  two  letters  received  from  the 
Commander-in-Chief  containing  the  results  of  our 
deliberation. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 
(Private.) 

NEW  YORK,  December  19,  1798. 

DEAR  SIR: 

You  are  informed  that  Mr.  Hill  is  in  possession  of 
drafts  of  surveys,  made  during  our  last  war,  of  our 
harbor  and  bay.  It  is  very  interesting  that  the  gov- 
ernment should  acquire  these  drafts.  You  will,  I 
presume,  think  that  they  ought  to  be  deposited  in 
your  department  as  an  item  in  the  general  mass  of 
information  necessary  toward  plans  of  general  de- 
fence. If  so,  you  will  purchase  them,  if  it  be  not 


Hamilton  to  Gunn  45 

already  done,  and  in  this  case,  I  will  thank  you  for 
the  immediate  loan  of  them;  having  been  charged 
by  the  Governor  of  this  State,  under  the  sanction  of 
the  President,  with  preparing  a  plan  for  the  fortifica- 
tion of  our  port,  which  plan,  when  digested,  will  be 
sent  to  you.  Should  you  decline  the  purchase,  be  so 
good  as  to  say  so  to  General  McPherson,  who  will  be 
requested  to  procure  the  drafts  for  the  use  of  this 
State. 


HAMILTON   TO    GUNN 

NEW  YORK,  December  22,  1798. 

MY  DEAR  SIR: 

The  post  of  yesterday  brought  me  your  favor  of 
the  iQth  inst.  The  sentiments  in  it  personal  to  me 
are  extremely  gratifying,  and  I  am  very  glad  to 
ascertain  the  military  ground  upon  which  you  are 
not  unwilling  to  stand.  If  things  progress,  I  trust 
there  will  be  no  obstacle  to  your  occupying  it. 

As  to  the  further  military  arrangements,  my  ideas 
are  these:  Considering  how  little  has  been  done 
toward  raising  the  force  already  voted,  that  an  im- 
portant tax  is  yet  in  the  first  stage  of  an  essay,  that  a 
prospect  of  peace  is  again  presented  by  the  tem- 
porizing conduct  of  France,  that  serious  discontents 
exist  in  parts  of  the  country  with  regard  to  particular 
laws,  it  appears  to  me  advisable  to  postpone  any 
actual  augmentation  of  the  army  beyond  the  pro- 
visions of  the  existing  laws,  except  as  to  the  regiment 
of  cavalry,  which  I  should  be  glad  to  see  increased  by 
the  addition  of  two  troops,  and  by  the  allowing  it  to 


46  Alexander  Hamilton 

be  recruited  to  the  complement  which  has  been  pro- 
posed by  the  Commander-in-Chief,  as  that  of  the 
war  establishment.  What  this  is  will  probably  be 
communicated  by  the  Secretary  at  War. 

But  a  considerable  addition  ought  certainly  to  be 
made  to  our  military  supplies.  The  communica- 
tions of  the  Commander-in-Chief  will  also  afford  a 
standard  for  the  increase  in  this  respect,  as  far  as 
concerns  the  force  to  be  employed  in  the  field.  There 
are,  however,  some  other  objects  of  supply  equally 
essential,  which  were  not  within  the  view  of  those 
communications — heavy  cannon  for  our  fortifica- 
tions, and  mortars  for  the  case  of  a  siege.  Of  the 
former,  including  those  already  procured  and  pro- 
curing, there  ought  not  to  be  fewer  than  one  thou- 
sand, from  eighteen  to  thirty-two  pounders,  chiefly 
of  twenty-fours;  of  the  latter,  including  those  on 
hand,  there  ought  to  be  fifty  of  ten-inch  calibre. 
This,  you  perceive,  looks  to  offensive  operations.  If 
we  are  to  engage  in  war,  our  game  will  be  to  attack 
where  we  can.  France  is  not  to  be  considered  as 
separated  from  her  ally.  Tempting  objects  will  be 
within  our  grasp. 

Will  it  not  likewise  be  proper  to  renew  and  extend 
the  idea  of  a  provisional  army  ?  The  force  which  has 
been  contemplated  as  sufficient  in  any  event,  is 
40,000  infantry  of  the  line,  2,000  riflemen,  4,000 
cavalry,  and  4,000  artillery,  making  in  the  whole  an 
army  of  50,000.  Why  should  not  the  provisional 
army  go  to  the  extent  of  the  difference  between  that 
number  and  the  actual  army?  I  think  this  ought  to 
be  the  case,  and  that  the  President  ought  to  be  au- 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  47 

thorized  immediately  to  nominate  the  officers,  to 
remain  without  pay  until  called  into  service.  The 
arrangements  can  then  be  made  with  sufficient 
leisure  for  the  best  possible  selection,  and  the  persons 
designated  will  be  employed  in  acquiring  instruction. 

It  will  likewise  deserve  consideration,  whether 
provision  ought  not  to  be  made  for  classing  all  per- 
sons from  eighteen  to  forty-five  inclusively,  and  for 
draughting  out  of  them,  in  case  of  invasion,  by  lot, 
the  number  necessary  to  complete  the  entire  army  of 
fifty  thousand.  In  the  case  of  invasion,  the  ex- 
pedient of  draughting  must  be  resorted  to,  and  it 
will  greatly  expedite  it  if  there  be  a  previous  classing 
with  a  view  to  such  an  event.  The  measure,  too, 
will  place  the  country  in  a  very  imposing  attitude, 
and  will  add  to  the  motives  of  caution  on  the  part  of 
our  enemies. 

These  measures  are  all  that  appear  to  be  advisable 
with  regard  to  our  military  establishment  under 
present  appearances.  A  loan  as  an  auxiliary  will  of 
course  be  annexed. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY  * 
(Private.) 

NEW  YORK,  December  26,  1798. 

DEAR  SIR: 

As  it  may  possibly  not  have  come  to  you  through 
any  other  channel,  I  think  it  well  to  inform  you  that 
General  Huntington  has  been  displeased  at  not  hav- 
ing received  official  notice  of  his  appointment,  with 

1  Now  first  published  from  the  Hamilton  MSS.,  vol.  xviii.,  p.  79. 


48  Alexander  Hamilton 

his  commission.     This,  if  not  already  so,  ought  to  be 
remedied. 

I  hear  nothing  of  nominations.     What  malignant 
influence  hangs  upon  our  military  affairs? 
With  great  esteem  and  regard, 
Your  obedient  servant, 

A.  HAMILTON. 

P.  S. — I  left  with  General  Pinckney  a  project  of  a 
military  school  which  he  was  to  have  sent  me.     Has 
he  quitted  Philadelphia?     If  so,  have  you  heard  any 
thing  of  this  paper?     I  want  it. 
JAMES  MCHENRY,  Esq. 


MEASURES   OF   DEFENCE  * 

1799. 

Further  measures  to  be  taken  without  delay: 

I. — To  authorize  the  President  to  proceed  forth- 
with to  raise  the  10,000  men  already  ordered. 

II. — To  establish  an  academy  for  military  and 
naval  instruction.  This  is  a  very  important  measure 
and  ought  to  be  permanent. 

III. — To  provide  for  the  immediate  raising  of  a 
corps  of  non-commissioned  officers,  viz.,  sergeants 
and  corporals,  sufficient  with  the  present  establish- 
ment for  an  army  of  50,000  men.  The  having  these 

1  It  does  not  appear  whether  this  document  was  published  at  the 
time,  or  whether  it  was  a  letter  for  private  circulation  among  leading 
men  in  the  Cabinet  and  in  Congress.  It  is  a  very  interesting  paper,  as 
it  shows  the  precise  policy  which  the  leader  of  the  war  Federalists 
wished  to  have  adopted  at  a  grave  crisis  in  the  history  of  the  country 
and  of  his  own  party.  It  was  probably  written  early  in  1799. 


Measures  of  Defence  49 

men  prepared  and  disciplined  will  accelerate  ex- 
tremely the  disciplining  of  an  additional  force. 

IV. — To  provide  before  Congress  rise  that  in  case 
it  shall  appear  that  an  invasion  of  this  country  by  a 
large  army  is  actually  on  foot,  there  shall  be  a  draft 
from  the  militia  to  be  classed,  of  a  number  suffi- 
cient to  complete  the  army  of  30,000  men.  Pro- 
vision for  volunteers  in  lieu  of  drafts.  A  bounty  to 
be  given. 

V. — To  authorize  the  President  to  provide  a  fur- 
ther naval  force  of  six  ships  of  the  line,  and  twelve 
frigates,  with  twenty  small  vessels  not  exceeding 
sixteen  guns.  It  is  possible  the  ships  of  the  line  and 
frigates  may  be  purchased  of  Great  Britain,  to  be 
paid  for  in  stock.  We  ought  to  be  ready  to  cut 
up  all  the  small  privateers  and  gun-boats  in  the 
West  Indies,  so  as  at  the  same  time  to  distress  the 
French  islands  as  much  as  possible  and  protect  our 
trade. 

VI. — Is  not  the  independence  of  the  French  colo- 
nies under  the  guaranty  of  the  United  States  to  be 
aimed  at  ?  If  it  is,  there  cannot  be  too  much  prompt- 
ness in  opening  negotiations  for  the  purpose.  Victor 
Hugues  is  probably  an  excellent  subject.  This  idea, 
however,  deserves  mature  consideration. 

VII.— It  is  essential  the  Executive  should  have 
half  a  million  of  secret-service  money.  If  the  meas- 
ure cannot  be  carried  without  it,  the  expenditure 
may  be  with  the  approbation  of  three  members  of 
each  House  of  Congress. 

VIII. — Revenue  in  addition  to  the  $2,000,000  of 
land  tax,  say : 

VOL.  VII. — 4. 


Alexander  Hamilton 


Probable  Produce. 


$5OO,OOO 


$100,000 


$500,000 


.5 

s 

Id 

.3.2 


$IOO,OOO 
$IOO,OOO 


d 


f  A  stamp  duty  on  hats,  as  well  manu- 
J  factured  at  home  as  imported,  dis- 
j  tributed  into  three  classes — 10,  15,  25 
[  cents. 

Saddle-horses,  one  dollar  each,  exclud- 
ing those  engaged  in  agriculture, 
j  Salt,  so  as  to  raise  the  present  duty  to 
*  25  cents  per  bushel. 
Male  servants  of  the  capacities  by 
whatever  name :  Maitre  d'  h6tel,  house- 
steward,  valet  de  chambre,  butler, 
under-butler,  confectioner,  cook,  house- 
porter,  waiter,  footman,  coachman, 
groom,  postilions,  stable-boy, — for  one 
such  servant,  $i;  for  two  such  ser- 
vants, and  not  more,  $2  each ;  for  three 
such  servants,  $3  each;  above  three, 
$4  each;  one  dollar  additional  by 
bachelors. 

New  modification  with  greater  diver- 
sity of  licenses  for  sale  of  wines. 
One  per  cent  on  all  successions  by  de- 
scent or  devise. 


IX. — A  loan  of  $10,000,000.  The  interest  to  be 
such  as  will  insure  the  loan  at  par.  It  is  better  to 
give  high  interest,  redeemable  at  pleasure,  than  low 
interest  with  accumulation  of  capital  as  in  England. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  January  7,  1799. 

SIR: — The    unascertained    situation    in    which    I 
have  been  since  my  acceptance  of  the  military  ap- 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  51 

pointment  I  now  hold,  has  been  not  a  little  embar- 
rassing to  me.  I  had  no  sooner  heard  of  the  law 
creating  the  office,  than  I  was  told  by  members  of 
Congress  that  I  was  generally  considered  as  the  per- 
son designated  by  circumstances  to  fill  that  office, 
and  that  the  expectation  of  those  who  most  actively 
promoted  the  passing  of  the  law  was,  that  the  in- 
spector-general would  be  brought  into  immediate 
activity,  particularly  to  superintend  the  raising  and 
organizing  of  the  troops. 

This  is  mentioned  as  a  mere  item  in  the  incidents 
which  influenced  my  calculations  and  arrangements. 

Very  soon  after,  if  not  at  the  time,  you  communi- 
cated to  me  my  appointment,  you  intimated,  though 
not  officially,  your  desire  that  I  might  occupy  myself 
in  preparing  for  the  consideration  of  the  Executive  a 
system  of  tactics  and  discipline ;  and  not  long  after, 
you  expressed  to  me  your  intention  to  commit  to  me 
the  supervision  of  the  recruiting  service. 

In  October  I  received  your  summons  to  attend  at 
the  seat  of  government  with  theCommander-in-Chief. 
I  obeyed,  and  devoted  to  the  purpose  of  this  sum- 
mons about  a  month  and  a  half. 

I  received,  in  due  course,  a  letter  from  your  de- 
partment stating  the  expectation  of  the  President 
that  the  generals  would  think  it  proper  to  waive  the 
emoluments  of  their  stations  till  called  into  service. 
In  my  reply  I  acquiesced. 

But  presuming  that  I  would  speedily  be  officially 
charged  with  the  execution  of  duties,  which  would 
draw  along  with  them  the  compensations  attached 
by  the  law  to  the  station,  I  have  acted  on  that 


5 2  Alexander  Hamilton 

presumption.  I  have  discontinued  my  practice  as 
attorney  and  solicitor,  from  which  I  had  derived  a 
considerable  part  of  my  professional  profits;  and  I 
have  applied  no  small  portion  of  my  time  to  pre- 
liminary investigations,  in  order  to  the  collection  of 
the  best  lights  for  forming  a  system  of  tactics  and 
discipline  as  perfect  as  exists  anywhere  else. 

The  very  circumstance  of  my  having  accepted 
a  military  appointment,  from  the  moment  it  was 
known,  withdrew  from  me  a  large  portion  of  my 
professional  business.  This,  it  will  be  perceived, 
was  a  natural  effect  of  the  uncertainty  of  my  being 
able  in  the  progress  of  suits  to  render  the  services 
for  which  I  might  be  engaged,  at  the  customary  pre- 
vious expense  to  the  parties. 

The  result  has  been,  that  the  emoluments  of  my 
profession  have  been  diminished  more  than  one  half, 
and  are  still  diminishing,  and  I  remain  in  perfect  un- 
certainty whether  or  when  I  am  to  derive  from  the 
scanty  compensations  of  the  office  even  a  partial 
retribution  for  so  serious  a  loss. 

Were  I  rich,  I  should  be  proud  to  be  silent  on  such 
a  subject.  I  should  acquiesce  without  an  observa- 
tion as  long  as  any  one  might  think  the  minutest 
public  interest  required  an  accumulation  of  sacri- 
fices on  my  part.  But  after  having  to  so  advanced 
a  period  of  my  life  devoted  all  my  prospects  of  for- 
tune to  the  service  of  the  country,  and  dependent, 
as  I  am,  for  the  maintenance  of  a  wife  and  six  child- 
ren on  my  professional  exertions,  now  so  seriously 
abridged,  it  is  essential  for  me  to  forego  the  scruples 
of  delicacy,  and  to  ask  of  you  to  define  my  situation, 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  53 

that  I  may  determine  whether  to  continue  or  to 
change  my  present  plan. 

It  will  easily  be  imagined  that  I  should  not  accept 
compensations  withheld  from  any  other  in  a  similar 
situation.  If  actual  employment  is  to  be  the  cri- 
terion in  any  other  instance,  it  must  be  so  in  mine; 
but  then  it  is  material  to  me  to  understand  whether, 
in  the  contemplation  of  the  Executive,  I  now  am,  or 
immediately  am,  to  be  employed,  or  not.  In  the 
negative  of  this,  my  honor  will  compel  submission 
to  the  consequent  sacrifice,  so  far  as  it  is  unavoid- 
able; but  my  arrangements  will  be  different  from 
what  they  are  at  present,  and  will  aim  at  making 
the  sacrifice  as  small  as  possible. 

An  early  answer  to  this  inquiry  will  particularly 
oblige  me. 

With  great  respect,  etc. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  January  15,  1799. 

DEAR  SIR: 

I  find  I  cannot  have  ready  for  this  day's  post  the 
bill  for  the  provisional  army.  Inclosed  are  some 
additional  clauses  relating  to  organization,  conse- 
quently to  be  inserted  in  the  bill  sent  by  yesterday's 
post.  You  will  easily  determine  their  proper  position 
there.  They  are  necessary  to  systematic  propriety. 
General  provisions  of  this  kind  will  prevent  con- 
tinued repetitions  in  every  new  law  respecting  the 
military  force. 


54  Alexander  Hamilton 

HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  January  16,  1799. 

DEAR  SIR: 

You  will  receive  herewith  the  draft  of  a  bill  for  a 
provisional  army.  It  includes  only  those  things  of  a 
former  bill  which  are  appropriated  to  this  object; 
the  other  parts  of  that  bill  being  now  in  full  force. 
The  operation  of  the  bill,  which  has  been  already 
sent  you,  renders  the  repetition  of  several  clauses  in 
the  present  unnecessary.  The  aim,  indeed,  ought 
to  be  to  have  a  fundamental  arrangement  which  will 
attach  of  course  upon  all  subsequent  provisions  of 
force,  so  that  the  law  for  every  augmentation  need 
only  define  the  number  to  be  raised,  and  the  dura- 
tion of  service,  and  the  mode  of  raising. 

An  eye  has  been  had  to  this  in  the  draft  of  the  first 
bill,  and  one  of  the  two  additional  clauses  now  sent 
for  the  same  bill  has  the  same  view.  This  will  be 
more  deliberately  and  correctly  attended  to  in  the 
plan  of  a  bill  which  I  shall  begin  to  work  upon  from 
this  time,  but  which  cannot  be  ready  for  a  consider- 
able time.  A  bill  for  the  hospital  establishment  will 
follow  in  two  or  three  days. 

Yours  truly,  etc. 

P.  S. — The  considerable  mutilation  of  the  nomina- 
tions proposed  by  the  Commander-in-Chief,  as  it 
appears  in  the  result,  naturally  excites  curiosity.  It 
ought  to  be  presumed,  and  yet  the  mind  naturally 
distrusts  the  presumption,  that  there  are  good 
reasons  for  it,  and  that  the  service  will  be  finally 
benefited.  But  I  confess  it  would  be  a  relief  to  me 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  55 

to  know  a  little  in  detail,  what  has  influenced  the 
departure,  how  the  unfitness  of  those  who  have  been 
declined  has  appeared,  and  what  means  are  in  train 
to  do  any  better.  Pray  be  particular  and  confiden- 
tial. You  will  not  consider  any  letter  of  mine  be- 
ginning "  Dear  Sir,"  as  official. 


Measures  in  the  War  Department  which  it  may  be 
expedient  to  adopt. 

To  organize  anew  the  militia,  on  a  plan  some- 
thing like  the  following,  viz. : 

To  be  divided  into  five  classes. 

First  class,  consisting  of  all  unmarried  men  from  18 
to  25,  except  apprentices  under  21  to  merchants, 
mechanics,  and  manufacturers,  and  students  under 
the  same  age  in  universities,  colleges,  and  academies, 
and  of  divinity,  law,  and  medicine. 

Second  class,  consisting  of  all  unmarried  men  from 
25  to  40. 

Third  class,  consisting  of  all  married  men  from  18 
to  25,  except  as  excepted  in  the  first  class. 

Fourth  class,  consisting  of  all  married  men  from 
25  to  40. 

Fifth  class,  consisting  of  all  men  above  40,  and  not 
exceeding  50. 

Each  class  to  be  formed  into  corps  of  infantry, 
artillery,  and  cavalry,  combined  into  legions  to  con- 
sist of  four  regiments  of  infantry,  one  regiment  of 
horse,  and  a  battalion  of  artillery.  All  who  choose 
to  enter  into  the  cavalry  and  provide  themselves 


5  6  Alexander  Hamilton 

with  horses,  arms,  and  accoutrements,  to  be  at  lib- 
erty to  do  it.  Each  class  to  be  called  out  in  suc- 
cession as  numbered;  in  whole  or  in  part,  liable  to 
serve  for  a  year.  None  of  a  higher  number  to  be 
called  out  until  all  of  any  preceding  lower  number 
have  been  called  out  and  served  their  tour. 

In  case  of  domestic  insurrection,  no  man  able  to 
serve  shall  be  excused  on  any  condition. 

In  case  of  foreign  war,  any  man  may  be  excused, 
paying  T%-  dollars. 

No  militia  (except  those  inhabiting  frontier  coun- 
ties) shall  be  obliged  to  serve  against  Indians,  nor 
those  inhabiting  frontier  counties  for  more  than  one 
year. 

Any  man  who  shall  refuse  to  serve  his  tour  when 
required,  to  be  imprisoned  during  the  term  of  ser- 
vice, or  compelled  to  labor  at  some  public  work  at 
the  option  of  the  government. 

Cases  of  exempts  to  be  defined  in  the  laws. 

The  respective  classes  to  be  liable  to  be  called  out 
for  inspection  and  exercise  as  follows: 

First  class,  -          -  days  in  a  year. 

Second  class,  -         -  days  in  a  year. 

Third  class,  -    days  in  a  year. 

Fourth  class,  -         -  days  in  a  year. 

Fifth  class,  one  day  in  a  year. 

I. — The  militia,  when  in  service,  to  be  subject  to 
the  same  rules  of  discipline  and  government  as  the 
army  of  the  United  States. 

II. — A  regiment  to  be  raised  consisting  of  com- 
sioned  officers  and  persons  engaged  as  sergeants,  and 
with  the  pay  of  such — that  is  to  say,  in  their  own 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  57 

corps  they  shall  serve  by  rotation  as  sergeants,  cor- 
porals, and  privates,  but  out  of  their  regiment  they 
shall  only  be  employed  as  sergeants.  All  new 
regiments  which  may  be  raised  shall  have  their  ser- 
geants from  this  corps,  which  shall  have  a  fixed  sta- 
tion, and  be  carefully  instructed  in  all  the  parts  of 
camp,  field,  and  garrison  service.  It  may  be  con- 
sidered, whether  this  idea  may  not  be  extended  to 
artillery  and  cavalry.  This  corps  to  constitute  the 
basis  of  an  army  in  case  of  need. 

III. — To  establish  a  provisional  or  auxiliary  army, 
composed  of  four  regiments  of  infantry,  one  regiment 
of  cavalry,  and  one  battalion  of  artillery,  formed 
into  a  legion  of  two  brigades,  each  brigade  com- 
manded by  a  brigadier,  and  the  legion  by  a  major- 
general. 

This  legion  to  be  raised  by  voluntary  enlistment, 
according  to  a  certain  distribution,  in  the  following 
parts  of  the  United  States:  in  the  part  of  Pennsyl- 
vania and  Virginia  lying  west  of  the  Allegheny,  the 
Northwestern  and  Southwestern  Governments,  Ken- 
tucky, South  Carolina,  and  Georgia. 

The  consideration  of  enlistment  to  be  a  suit  of 
clothes  of  the  value  of  ten  dollars  per  annum,  and 
when  in  the  field  the  same  pay  and  allowance  as 
other  troops  of  the  United  States. 

To  be  engaged  for  a  term  of  -  -  years,  but  except 
in  case  of  domestic  insurrection  or  foreign  invasion, 

not  to  be  obliged  to  serve  in  the  field  more  than 

months  in  one  year.  One  brigade  to  be  raised  in 
the  western  part  of  Pennsylvania  and  Virginia,  the 
Northwestern  Territory,  and  the  State  of  Kentucky. 


58  Alexander  Hamilton 

The  Brigadier  to  be  immediately  charged  with  all 
the  military  affairs  of  the  United  States  in  that  scene. 
The  other  brigade  to  be  raised  in  the  other  part  of 
the  country  above  described,  with  the  same  imme- 
diate charge  to  its  Brigadier  of  the  military  affairs  of 
the  United  States  in  that  scene. 

The  Major-General  to  have  the  general  direction. 

IV. — The  following  miscellaneous  objects  to  be 
aimed  at: 

1.  The  establishment  of  a  system  of  trade  with 
the  Indians  under  the  agents  of  government;  a  plan 
in  detail  for  this  purpose. 

2.  The  establishing  it  as  a  principle,  that  every 
man  in  arms  to  attack  or  resist  Indians,  except  in 
some  county  under  the  actual  jurisdiction  of  the 
laws,  shall  be  ipso  facto  liable  to  the  rules  for  the 
government  of  the  army. 

3.  The    establishment    of    manufactories,    under 
public   authority,    of   cannon,   muskets   and   other 
arms,  powder  and  ball;   all  articles  of  clothing  ex- 
cept hats  and  shoes. 

J^IT3  The  organization  of  the  army  to  be  revised; 
it  is  presumed  to  be  susceptible  of  one  more  perfect. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  January  21,  1799. 


DEAR  SIR: 

I  send  you  the  draft  of  a  bill  for  regulating  the 
medical  establishment.  (I  avoid  purposely  the  term 
department,  which  I  would  reserve  for  the  great 
branches  of  administration.)  You  will  see  that 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  59 

nothing  but  an  organization  with  a  general  outline 
of  duty  is  provided  for.  Detailed  regulations  will 
properly  come  from  the  President  and  the  depart- 
ments; and  the  less  these  are  legislated  upon,  in 
such  cases,  the  better.  When  fixed  by  law,  they 
cannot  be  varied,  as  experience  advises. 

This  particular  establishment  is  one  to  the  right 
fashioning  of  which  I  feel  myself  more  than  ordi- 
narily incompetent. 

You  mention  in  one  of  your  letters,  that,  by  the 
law  of  the  i6th  of  July,  the  appropriation  for  the 
augmented  army  ceases  at  the  end  of  the  present 
session.  This  is  one  construction  of  that  law.  A 
different  might  perhaps  be  mentioned.  But  be  this 
as  it  may,  you  will  find  by  a  subsequent  act  of  the 
same  date,  entitled:  "An  act  making  certain  ap- 
propriations," etc.,  that  900,000  dollars  are  there 
appropriated  for  the  same  object,  without  any 
qualifications;  and  I  take  it  for  granted  that  what- 
ever money  should  have  been  issued  from  the  Treas- 
ury for  the  use  of  the  War  Department,  previous  to 
the  end  of  the  session,  upon  the  first  of  those  acts, 
might  be  expended  afterwards  by  this  department 
without  any  question  about  its  regularity. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  January  24,  1799. 


DEAR  SIR: 

You  ask  my  opinion  as  to  a  proper  arrangement 
for  the  command  of  the  military  force,  on  the 
ground  that  the  Commander-in-Chief  declines  at 
present  an  active  part. 


60  Alexander  Hamilton 

This  is  a  delicate  subject  for  me ;  yet  in  the  shape 
in  which  it  presents  itself,  I  shall  waive  the  scruples 
which  are  natural  on  the  occasion. 

If  I  rightly  understood  the  Commander-in-Chief, 
his  wish  was  that  all  the  military  points  and  military 
force  everywhere  should  be  put  under  the  direction 
of  the  two  major-generals,  who  alone  should  be  the 
organs  of  the  Department  of  War. 

The  objects  of  this  plan  are  to  disburthen  the  head 
of  that  department  of  infinite  details,  which  must 
unavoidably  clog  his  general  arrangements,  and  to 
establish  a  vigilant  military  superintendence  over 
all  the  military  points.  There  is  no  difficulty  in  this 
plan,  except  as  to  the  Western  army. 

It  will  be  a  very  natural  disposition  to  give  to  the 
Inspector-General  the  command  of  all  the  troops 
and  posts  north  of  Maryland,  and  to  General  Pinck- 
ney  the  command  of  all  the  troops  and  posts  south 
of  the  district  assigned  to  the  Inspector-General. 
How  will  this  plan  as  to  the  Western  army  answer? 

Let  all  the  troops  upon  the  lakes,  including  those 
on  the  Miami,  which  communicate  with  Lake  Erie, 
be  united  under  the  command  of  one  officer,  to  be 

stationed  at .  Let  all  the  troops  in  Tennessee 

be  united  under  the  command  of  one  officer,  to  be 
stationed  at .  Let  them  consider  them- 
selves under  the  order  of  the  General  who  commands 
the  Western  army,  and  let  the  whole  be  placed 
under  the  Inspector-General.  The  officers  com- 
manding on  the  lakes,  and  in  Tennessee,  to  be 
permitted  to  correspond  immediately  with  the  In- 
spector-General, and  receive  orders  from  him. 


Hamilton  to 61 

All  the  communications,  as  well  of  these  officers  as 
of  the  General  of  the  Western  army,  to  be  sent  open, 
under  cover  of  the  Secretary  of  War,  who,  in  urgent 
cases,  will  himself  give  orders,  if  the  Inspector-Gen- 
eral be  not  on  the  spot,  which  he  will  communicate 
for  his  future  government  to  the  Inspector-General, 
and  in  cases  not  urgent,  will  leave  matters  to  the 
agency  of  the  Inspector-General,  according  to  the 
instructions  which  he  shall  receive  from  the  Depart- 
ment of  War. 

It  is  easy  to  perceive  that  there  are  objections  to 
this  plan.  I  am  not  sure  that  it  ought  to  be  adopted. 
The  pour  and  the  contre  will  readily  occur  to  you,  and 
you  will  take  and  reject,  as  shall  appear  to  you  proper ; 
assured  always  that,  personally,  I  shall  be  content 
with  any  arrangement  you  may  think  advisable. 


HAMILTON    TO 


(Circular.) 

NEW  YORK,  January  30,  1799. 

SIR: — A  letter  from  the  Secretary  at  War,  of  yes- 
terday, places  under  my  superintendence  the  posts 
and  troops  under  your  immediate  command.  All 
future  communications  therefore  respecting  them, 
including  reports  and  returns,  are  to  be  addressed 
to  me ;  not  as  heretofore  to  the  Secretary  at  War. 

It  is  my  wish,  as  soon  as  possible,  to  receive  a  full 
and  particular  communication  of  the  state  of  things 
within  your  command,  embracing  the  number  and 
condition  of  the  works  and  buildings ;  the  quantities 
and  kinds  of  artillery,  arms,  and  stores;  the  number 
of  the  troops  and  their  situations;  as  to  discipline, 


62  Alexander  Hamilton 

equipment,  and  supply;  and  that  you  will  in  future 
keep  me  regularly  advised  of  whatever  may  be 
material  for  the  successful  discharge  of  your  trust 
or  the  advancement  of  the  service. 

I  cannot  let  this  first  opportunity  pass,  without 
calling  your  attention  in  an  official  manner  to  the 
discipline  of  the  troops.  The  cursory  observation 
which  I  have  been  hitherto  able  to  make,  has  been 
sufficient  to  satisfy  that  there  exists  in  this  respect 
too  general  a  relaxation;  an  evil  which  must,  at  all 
times,  be  corrected  by  the  union  of  care,  prudence 
and  energy. 

No  argument  is  necessary  to  prove  how  essential 
is  discipline  to  the  respectability  and  success  of  the 
service,  and  consequently  to  the  honor,  interest,  and 
individual  importance  of  every  officer  of  the  army. 
To  the  exertions  for  maintaining  it,  my  firm  support 
at  all  times  may  be  absolutely  counted  upon,  as  it 
will  be  my  steady  aim,  on  the  one  hand,  to  promote, 
to  every  reasonable  extent,  the  comfort  of  the  troops ; 
on  the  other,  to  secure  a  strict  observance  of  their 
duty.  With  great  consideration, 

I  am,  dear  sir, 

Your  obedient  servant. 

To  the  Commanding  Officer  at  West  Point 
and  its  dependencies. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  February  6,  1799. 


DEAR  SIR: 

In  one  of  your  letters  you  desire  me  to  think  of  the 
distribution  of  the  States  into  recruiting  districts.     I 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  63 

have  accordingly  turned  my  attention  to  this  subject. 
But  the  result  is,  that  it  will  be  best  to  assign  to  each 
regiment  its  district,  and  to  charge  its  commanding 
officer  with  the  arrangement  into  subdivisions.  If 
you  approve  this  idea,  you  had  better  write  me  an 
official  letter,  briefly  telling  me  that  the  recruiting 
service  is  to  be  put  under  my  direction,  and  desiring 
me  to  make  a  preliminary  arrangement  for  the  dis- 
tribution of  the  States  into  recruiting  districts  and 
rendezvouses;  upon  which  I  will  send  the  proper  in- 
structions to  the  several  commanders  of  regiments. 

I  have  not  yet  observed  that  the  places  of  the 
officers  omitted  in  the  arrangement  reported  by  the 
general  officers,  have  been  supplied.  I  hope  the  re- 
cruiting service  will  begin  with  complete,  not  with 
mutilated  or  defective  corps. 

I  regret  that  Gibbs  was  not  appointed.  There  is 
good  reason  to  believe  that  he  would  command  a 
regiment  well;  probably  better  than  the  person 
whom  the  objectors  to  him  would  approve.  Their 
rule  of  judging  of  military  qualification  is  most  likely 
no  very  accurate  one. 

I  regret,  also,  that  the  objection  against  anti-feder- 
alism has  been  carried  so  far  as  to  exclude  several 
of  the  characters  proposed  by  us.  We  were  very 
attentive  to  the  importance  of  appointing  friends  of 
the  government  to  military  stations ;  but  we  thought 
it  well  to  relax  the  rule  in  favor  of  particular  merit 
in  a  few  instances,  and  especially  in  reference  to  the 
inferior  grades.  It  does  not  seem  advisable  to  ex- 
clude all  hope,  and  to  give  to  appointments  too  ab- 
solute a  party  feature.  Military  situations,  on  young 


64  Alexander  Hamilton 

minds  particularly,  are  of  all  others  best  calculated 
to  inspire  a  zeal  for  the  service  and  the  cause  in 
which  the  incumbents  are  employed.  When  the 
President  thinks  of  his  son-in-law,  he  should  be 
moderate  in  this  respect. 

The  inclosed  letter  from  Colonel  Fairlie  relates  to 
the  second  son  of  our  late  Chief -Justice.  His  father, 
you  know,  was  anti-federal.  This  young  man  has  as 
yet  no  fixed  political  creed.  They  tell  me  there  is 
nothing  personally  to  his  disadvantage.  I  am  clear, 
therefore,  that  it  will  be  expedient  to  give  him  an 
appointment. 

Adieu,  my  dear  friend.     Yours  truly,  etc. 


HAMILTON   TO   WILKINSON 

NEW  YORK,  February  12,  1799. 

SIR: — The  interesting  incidents  which  have  lat- 
terly occurred  in  our  political  situation,  having 
rendered  it  expedient  to  enlarge  the  sphere  of  our 
military  arrangements,  it  has  in  consequence  become 
necessary  to  regulate  the  superintendence  of  our 
military  force,  in  its  various  and  detached  positions, 
in  such  a  manner  as,  while  it  will  serve  to  disburthen 
the  Department  of  War  of  details  incompatible  with 
its  more  general  and  more  important  occupations, 
will  likewise  conduce  to  uniformity  and  system  in 
the  different  branches  of  the  service. 

The  Commander-in-Chief  having,  for  the  present, 
declined  actual  command,  it  has  been  determined, 
in  pursuance  of  the  above  views,  to  place  the  mili- 


Hamilton  to  Wilkinson  65 

tary  force  everywhere,  under  the  superintendence  of 
Major-General  Pinckney  and  myself. 

In  the  allotment  for  this  purpose,  my  agency  is 
extended  to  the  garrisons  on  the  northern  lakes, 
and  to  all  the  troops  in  the  Northwestern  Territory, 
including  both  banks  of  the  Ohio  and  upon  the  Mis- 
sissippi; in  short,  to  all  the  Western  army,  except 
the  parts  which  may  be  in  the  States  of  Tennessee 
and  Kentucky. 

Of  this  you  will  have  been  informed  by  the  Secre- 
tary at  War. 

From  the  relation,  which  is  thus  constituted  be- 
tween us,  I  allow  myself  to  anticipate  great  mutual 
satisfaction.  Every  disposition  on  my  part  will 
certainly  facilitate  it,  and  tend  to  promote  the 
discharge  of  your  trust  in  the  manner  best  adapted 
to  your  honor  and  the  advancement  of  the  service. 

It  was  the  united  opinion  of  the  Commander-in- 
Chief,  General  Pinckney,  and  myself,  when  lately 
convened  at  Philadelphia,  that  your  speedy  pre- 
sence in  this  quarter  was  necessary,  towards  a  full 
discussion  of  the  affairs  of  the  scene  in  which  you 
have  so  long  had  the  direction  in  their  various  re- 
lations, and  towards  the  formation,  with  the  aid  of 
your  lights,  of  a  more  perfect  plan  for  present  and 
eventual  arrangements.  Much  may  be  examined 
in  a  personal  interview,  which,  at  so  great  a  distance, 
cannot  be  effected  by  writing. 

The  actual  and  probable  situation  of  our  public 
affairs,  in  reference  to  foreign  powers,  renders  this 
step  indispensable. 

You  will  therefore  be  pleased,  with  all  practicable 


VOL.  VII.— 5. 


66  Alexander  Hamilton 

expedition,  to  repair  to  Philadelphia;  upon  your 
arrival  there  giving  me  immediate  advice  of  it.  If 
this  can  be  most  conveniently  accomplished  by  way 
of  New  Orleans,  you  are  at  liberty  to  take  that  route. 
On  this  point  you  are  the  best  judge,  and  will  no 
doubt  act  with  circumspection. 

It  must  rest  with  you  to  dispose  of  the  command 
of  the  troops  at  the  different  stations  during  your 
absence,  and  to  give  the  proper  instructions,  in  con- 
formity with  those  which  have  been  received  from 
the  Secretary  at  War. 

On  this  head,  only  one  remark  will  be  made.  The 
confidence  in  your  judgment  has  probably  led  to  the 
reposing  in  you  discretionary  powers  too  delicate  to 
be  intrusted  to  an  officer  less  tried;  capable,  per- 
haps, of  being  so  used,  as  to  commit  prematurely 
the  peace  of  the  United  States.  Discretions  of  this 
tendency  ought  not  to  be  transferred  beyond  what 
may  be  indispensable  for  defensive  security. 

Care  must  be  taken  that  the  nation  be  not  em- 
broiled, in  consequence  of  a  liberal  policy  in  the 
government. 

Official  letters  from  you  to  me,  as  you  have  been 
apprised  by  the  Secretary  at  War,  are  to  be  for- 
warded through  him.  They  must  be  open  and 
under  cover.  The  design  of  this  is,  that  he  may 
have  an  opportunity,  in  cases  of  great  urgency, 
which  could  not  conveniently  wait  for  my  direction, 
to  interpose  with  the  requisite  measures. 

In  your  absence,  it  will  be  proper  that  the  officer, 
or  officers,  you  may  substitute  in  the  command, 
should  communicate  with  you,  also  transmitting 


Hamilton  to  Washington  67 

their  letters  open,  under  cover,  to  the  Secretary  at 
War.  This  will  preserve  unbroken  the  chain  of  your 
command. 


HAMILTON   TO   WASHINGTON 

NEW  YORK,  February  15,  1799. 

SIR: — The  Secretary  at  War  has  communicated 
to  me  the  following  disposition  with  regard  to  the 
superintendence  of  our  military  forces  and  posts. 

All  those  in  the  States  south  of  Maryland,  in  Ten- 
nessee and  Kentucky,  are  placed  under  the  direction 
of  Major-General  Pinckney;  those  everywhere  else 
under  my  direction,  to  which  he  has  added  the 
general  care  of  the  recruiting  service. 

The  commencement  of  the  business  of  recruiting, 
however,  is  still  postponed,  for  the  reason,  as  as- 
signed by  the  Secretary,  that  a  supply  of  clothing  is 
not  yet  ready. 

In  conformity  with  your  ideas,  I  have  directed 
General  Wilkinson  to  repair  to  the  seat  of  govern- 
ment, in  order  to  a  more  full  examination  of  the 
affairs  of  the  Western  scene,  and  to  the  concerting  of 
ulterior  arrangements. 

On  this  and  on  every  other  subject  of  our  military 
concerns,  I  shall  be  happy  to  receive  from  time  to 
time  such  suggestions  and  instructions  as  you  may 
be  pleased  to  communicate. 

I  shall  regularly  advise  you  of  the  progress  of 
things,  and  especially  of  every  material  occurrence. 

With  perfect  respect,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  etc. 


68  Alexander  Hamilton 

HAMILTON   TO    WASHINGTON 

(Private.) 

NEW  YORK,  February  16,  1799. 

DEAR  SIR: 

Different  reasons  have  conspired  to  prevent  my 
writing  to  you  since  my  return  to  New  York:  the 
multiplicity  of  my  avocations,  an  imperfect  state 
of  health,  and  the  want  of  something  material  to 
communicate. 

The  official  letter  herewith  transmitted  will  in- 
form you  of  the  disposition  of  our  military  affairs 
which  has  been  recently  adopted  by  the  Department 
of  War.  There  shall  be  no  want  of  exertion  on  my 
part  to  promote  the  branches  of  the  service  confided 
to  my  care. 

But  I  more  and  more  discover  cause  to  apprehend 
that  obstacles  of  a  very  peculiar  kind  stand  in  the 
way  of  an  efficient  and  successful  management  of 
our  military  concerns.  These  it  would  be  unsafe  at 
present  to  explain. 

It  may  be  useful  that  I  should  be  able  to  write  to 
you  hereafter  some  confidential  matters  relating  to 
our  administration  without  the  mention  of  names. 
When  this  happens,  I  shall  designate  the  President 
by  X,  the  Secretary  of  State  by  V,  of  the  Treasury 
by  I,  and  of  the  Department  of  War  by  C.  Every 
thing  in  the  Northern  quarter,  as  far  as  I  can  learn, 
continues  favorable  to  the  government. 

Very  affectionately  and  truly, 

I  remain,  etc. 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  69 

HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 
(Private.) 

NEW  YORK,  March  18,  1799. 

Beware,  my  dear  sir,  of  magnifying  a  riot  into  an 
insurrection,  by  employing  in  the  first  instance  an 
inadequate  force.  'T  is  better  far  to  err  on  the  other 
side.  Whenever  the  government  appears  in  arms, 
it  ought  to  appear  like  a  Hercules,  and  inspire  respect 
by  the  display  of  strength.  The  consideration  of 
expense  is  of  no  moment  compared  with  the  advan- 
tages of  energy.  'T  is  true,  this  is  always  a  relative 
question,  but  't  is  always  important  to  make  no 
mistake.  I  only  offer  a  principle  and  a  caution. 

A  large  corps  of  auxiliary  cavalry  may  be  had 
in  Jersey,  New  York,  Delaware,  Maryland,  without 
interfering  with  farming  pursuits. 

Will  it  be  inexpedient  to  put  under  marching 
orders  a  large  force  provisionally  as  an  eventual 
support  of   the   corps  to  be  employed  to  awe  the 
disaffected?    Let  all  be  well  considered. 
Yours  truly. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  April  8,  1799. 

SIR: — Nothing  can  be  more  desirable  than  a  well- 
digested  plan  for  connecting  the  different  parts  of 
our  military  system,  in  regard  to  the  procuring  and 
issuing  of  supplies.  I  send  you  the  outline  of  a 
scheme  for  that  purpose.  It  is  important  that  this, 
or  a  substitute  more  eligible,  should  be  without  de- 
lay established.  It  is  particularly  essential,  that  the 


70  Alexander  Hamilton 

channels  through  which  supplies  are  to  pass  to  the 
troops,  and  the  mode  of  application  for  them,  should 
be  designated  and  understood.  The  plan  now  trans- 
mitted embraces  this  among  other  objects.  I  beg 
leave  to  urge  a  speedy  attention  to  the  subject. 
With  great  respect  and  consideration, 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  etc. 


Plan  for  the  Providing  and  Issuing  of  Military 
Supplies 

The  business  of  providing  shall  constitute  one  dis- 
tinct branch  of  service ;  that  of  issuing,  another. 

The  purveyor  shall  be  charged  with  the  procuring 
of  all  supplies,  except  those  for  which  contracts  are 
made  directly  by  the  chiefs  of  the  Treasury  or  War 
Departments. 

The  superintendent  of  military  stores  shall  super- 
intend the  issues  of  all  supplies. 

The  purveyor  shall  have  near  him  three  assistants, 
by  whatsoever  denominations:  one,  in  relation  to 
the  supplies  which,  according  to  past  practice,  fall 
within  the  department  of  Quartermaster-General, 
including  the  means  of  transportation;  another,  in 
relation  to  the  supplies  which,  according  to  past 
practice,  fall  within  the  department  of  Commissary 
of  Provisions,  with  the  addition  of  medical  and 
hospital  stores;  a  third,  in  relation  to  the  supplies 
which,  according  to  past  practice,  fall  within  the  de- 
partment of  Commissary  of  Military  Stores,  with  the 
addition  of  clothing.  The  person  who  now  resides  at 
the  seat  of  government,  in  quality  of  quartermaster- 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  71 

general,  may  perform  the  duty  of  the  first-mentioned 
assistant. 

The  superintendent  of  military  stores  shall  have 
near  him  three  principal  clerks,  each  of  whom  par- 
ticularly to  superintend  the  issues  in  one  of  the 
above-mentioned  branches,  aided  by  as  many  store- 
keepers as  may  be  necessary. 

The  purveyor  shall  have  with  each  army  a  deputy, 
to  be  charged  with  the  procuring  of  all  supplies  neces- 
sary to  be  procured  with  the  army. 

The  superintendent  shall  have  with  each  army  a 
deputy,  who  shall  have  under  him  three  assistants: 
one  to  superintend  the  issues  of  quartermaster's 
stores;  another,  to  superintend  the  issues  of  pro- 
visions ;  a  third,  to  superintend  the  issues  of  other 
military  stores  and  clothing. 

The  purveyor  and  his  deputies  shall  deliver  over 
all  that  they  provide  to  the  superintendent  and  his 
deputies.  The  actual  custody  and  issuing  of  articles 
to  be  with  the  storekeepers,  pursuant  to  the  written 
orders  of  the  superintendent  and  his  deputies. 

The  quartermaster-general  with  the  main  army, 
and  the  deputy  quartermaster-general  with  each 
separate  army,  shall  have  the  superintendence  of  the 
deputies  of  the  purveyor  with  the  respective  armies, 
to  see  that  they  do  their  duty  according  to  their  in- 
structions from  the  heads  of  their  respective  branches 
and  the  order  of  the  commander  of  the  army. 

The  inspector-general  with  the  main  army,  and  the 
deputy  inspector-general  with  each  separate  army, 
shall  have  a  like  charge  of  the  deputies  of  the  super- 
intendent of  military  stores. 


72  Alexander  Hamilton 

These  officers  to  serve  as  checks  upon  the  respective 
deputies,  and  as  points  of  union  between  the  military 
and  civil  authorities. 

The  paymaster-general  shall  reside  at  the  seat  of 
government,  and  be  the  fountain  of  all  issues  of  money 
for  the  pay,  bounty,  etc.,  of  the  troops.  He  shall 
have  a  deputy  with  each  army,  who  shall  be  charged 
with  the  issuing  of  all  moneys  to  the  regimental 
paymasters. 

The  quartermaster  of  each  division  shall  be  charged 
with  the  procuring  of  all  supplies  which  may  be 
occasionally  necessary  for  such  division,  in  addition 
to  the  general  supplies. 

The  quartermaster  of  each  brigade  shall  be  charged 
with  the  like  duty,  when  the  brigade  is  detached  only ; 
and  always  with  the  superintendence  of  the  issues 
for  such  brigade,  and  consequently  with  the  direction 
of  all  brigade  officers  having  the  custody  of  supplies. 

Each  brigade  shall  have  a  commissary  of  forage, 
and  another  of  provisions ;  to  be  charged  respectively 
with  the  issues  of  those  articles. 

The  regimental  quartermaster  shall  receive  and 
issue  all  supplies  for  the  regiment,  except  of  money 
and  clothing. 

The  regimental  paymaster  shall  issue  moneys  for 
the  recruiting  service  to  the  company  officers  charged 
with  that  service,  pursuant  to  warrants  from  the 
commanding  officer  of  the  regiment,  or  from  the 
superintending  officer  of  the  recruiting  service  for 
such  regiment,  taking  from  each  an  accountable 
receipt. 

Whenever  it  is  practicable,  he  will  himself  pay  the 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  73 

officers,  non-commissioned  officers,  and  privates  of 
Jiis  regiment,  individually ;  when,  by  reason  of  distant 
detachments,  this  cannot  be  done,  he  will  deliver  the 
money  to  the  officers  commanding  companies,  or 
to  the  officers  commanding  parts  of  companies,  at 
stations  too  distant  for  the  agency  of  the  command- 
ers of  companies :  taking  from  each  an  accountable 
receipt.  The  money  must,  in  each  case,  be  paid  and 
issued,  pursuant  to  pay-rolls  signed  by  such  com- 
manding officers;  and,  whenever  it  is  practicable, 
accompanied  by  the  warrants  of  the  commanding 
officers  of  the  regiments,  or  of  battalions  when 
detached. 

For  all  moneys  which  shall  be  issued  to  officers,  to 
be  disbursed  by  them,  they  shall  account  monthly 
with  the  regimental  paymaster,  producing  to  him 
the  requisite  vouchers.  Upon  every  such  accounting, 
he  shall  give  a  certificate  of  the  substance  thereof  to 
the  officers  with  whom  such  accounting  shall  be, 
specifying  therein  the  vouchers  which  shall  have  been 
produced  and  left  with  him.  This  accounting  shall 
be  provisional  only,  and  liable  to  the  revision  and 
control  of  the  proper  officer  of  the  War  Depart- 
ment, to  whom  the  accounts  and  vouchers  must  be 
forwarded. 

The  same  regulations,  as  nearly  as  the  subject  will 
admit,  shall  be  observed  in  respect  to  the  issuing  of 
clothing  and  other  articles  (provisions  excepted), 
which  shall  be  issued  to  the  non-commissioned  officers 
and  soldiers,  and  in  respect  to  the  accounting  for  the 
same. 

Every  receipt  for  pay,  bounty,  or  other  matter, 


74  Alexander  Hamilton 

from  a  non-commissioned  officer  or  private  who  can- 
not write,  shall  be  certified  by  a  commissioned  officer, 
who,  wherever  it  shall  be  practicable,  shall  be  other 
than  the  person  for  whom  it  is  to  serve  as  a  voucher. 

All  documents  or  returns,  upon  which  issues  of 
money  or  other  articles  are  to  be  made,  must  be 
countersigned  by  the  chief  officer  of  the  regiment  or 
other  particular  corps  for  which  the  same  is  to  be 
issued. 

The  accounts  of  regimental  paymasters  and 
quartermasters  shall,  previous  to  their  transmission  to 
the  War  Department,  be  presented  to  the  command- 
ers of  regiments,  or  of  battalions  when  detached,  and 
to  the  persons  from  whom  respectively  they  shall 
have  received  the  objects  for  which  they  are  ac- 
countable, who  shall  summarily  examine  them,  and 
certify  their  opinion  respectively. 

The  above  regulations  shall  apply  to  all  persons 
who  may  act  as  substitutes  for  the  officers  to  whom 
they  relate. 

All  returns  and  requisitions  for  obtaining  supplies 
from  the  Department  of  War,  shall  go  from  the 
deputy  superintendent  of  military  stores  with  each 
army  to  the  said  superintendent. 

Estimates  of  supplies  shall  be  reported  by  the 
deputy  quartermaster-general  with  each  army  to  the 
commander  of  such  army,  and  shall  be  by  him  trans- 
mitted to  the  Secretary  at  War,  with  his  opinion. 

Each  deputy  shall  send  a  duplicate  of  every  esti- 
mate to  the  quartermaster-general,  who  shall  report 
to  the  Commander-in-Chief  general  estimates  for  all 
the  troops  of  the  United  States,  illustrated  by  the 


Hamilton  to  Wilkinson  75 

particular  estimates,  which  general  estimates  shall 
be  transmitted  by  the  Commander-in-Chief  to  the 
Secretary  at  War,  with  his  opinion. 


HAMILTON   TO    WILKINSON 

April  15,  1799. 

General  Hamilton  presents  his  compliments  to 
General  Wilkinson,  and  sends  him  at  foot,  heads  for 
conversations  which  it  is  proposed  to  have,  in  order 
to  call  the  attention  of  G.  W.  to  the  several  points. 
Most  of  them  have,  no  doubt,  been  topics  of 
communication  with  the  War  Department,  but  the 
freedom  and  particularity  of  conversation  will  yield 
additional  lights,  and  lead  perhaps  to  a  correct  sys- 
tem for  the  management  of  our  Western  affairs  in 
their  various  relations. 

Objects 

1.  The   disposition   of  our   Western   inhabitants 
towards  the  United  States  and  foreign  powers. 

2.  The  disposition  of  the   Indians  in  the  same 
aspect. 

3.  The  disposition  of  the  Spaniards  in  our  vicinity 
—their  strength  in  number  and  fortification. 

4.  The  best  expedients  for  correcting  or  contract- 
ing hostile  propensities  in  any  or  all  these  quarters, 
including — 

5.  The  best  defensive  disposition  of  the  Western 
army,  embracing  the  country  of  Tennessee  and  the 
northern  and  northwestern  lakes,  and  having  an  eye 
to  economy  and  discipline. 


76  Alexander  Hamilton 

6.  The  best  mode  (in  the  event  of  a  rupture  with 
Spain)  of  attacking  the  two  Floridas.    Troops,  artil- 
lery, etc.,  requisite. 

7.  The  best  plan  of  supplying  the  Western  army 
with  provision,  transportation,  forage,  etc. 

8.  The  best  arrangement  of  command,  so  as  to 
unite  facility  of  communication  with  the  sea-board, 
and  the  proper  combination  of  all  the  parts  under 
the  general  commanding  the  Western  army. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

PHILADELPHIA,  April  20,  1799. 

SIR: — Inclosed  are  the  proceedings  of  a  general 
court-martial,  of  which  Major  Wilcocks  is  president. 
All  the  sentences,  except  that  of  Richard  Hunt,  have 
been  approved  and  directed  to  be  executed.  The 
corporal  punishment  in  the  case  of  Goldsberg  is 
remitted,  agreeably  to  the  recommendation  of  the 
court.  You  will  observe  that  the  pay  due  to  each  of 
the  offenders  is  forfeited. 

As  I  do  not  conceive  the  United  States  to  be  now 
at  war,  in  the  legal  import  of  that  term  (which  I 
construe  to  be  a  state  not  of  partial  but  of  general 
hostility),  I  considered  it  as  beyond  my  power  to 
approve  or  execute  such  sentences  as  by  the  articles 
of  war  are  referred  to  the  President  in  time  of  peace. 
But  while  I  think  it  my  duty  on  this  ground  to 
transmit  the  sentence  without  acting  upon  it,  I  feel 
myself  called  upon  by  a  profound  conviction  of  the 
necessity  of  some  severe  examples  to  check  a  spirit 
of  desertion  which,  for  want  of  them  in  time  past, 


Hamilton  to  Washington  77 

has  become  too  prevalent,  and  to  respectfully  de- 
clare my  opinion  that  the  confirmation  and  execu- 
tion of  the  sentence  are  of  material  consequence  to 
the  prosperous  course  of  the  military  service.  The 
crime  of  desertion  is  in  this  instance  aggravated  by 
the  condition  of  the  offender,  who  is  a  sergeant,  and 
by  the  breach  of  trust,  in  purloining  the  money  which 
was  in  his  hands  for  the  pay  of  his  company. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

PHILADELPHIA,  April  23,  1799. 

SIR: — Upon  a  careful  inspection  of  the  articles  of 
war,  I  entertain  doubts,  whether  I  can  act  upon,  by 
approving  or  disapproving,  sentences  of  courts-mar- 
tial, referred  to  me  from  the  Department  of  War  in 
cases  in  which  the  courts  have  been  instituted  by 
that  department  through  organs  other  than  myself. 

As  there  is  peculiar  delicacy  in  inflicting  punish- 
ment upon  questionable  authority,  I  shall  be  glad  to 
be  exempted  from  the  embarrassment,  which  refer- 
ences of  the  above-mentioned  kind  will  occasion.1 


HAMILTON   TO    WASHINGTON 

(Private.) 

NEW  YORK,  May  3,  1799. 

DEAR  SIR: 

At  length  the  recruiting  for  the  additional  regi- 
ments has  begun  in  Connecticut,  New  York,  New 
Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  and  Delaware.  The  inclosed 

1  I  have  written  personally  to  Col.  Strong  to  abstain  from  the  execu- 
tion of  martial  law  at  Detroit  till  further  orders,  as  I  desire  maturely  to 
reflect  on  the  subject  before  a  definite  step. 


78  Alexander  Hamilton 

return  of  clothing  will  sufficiently  explain  to  you  that 
it  has  at  least  commenced  as  soon  as  the  prepara- 
tions by  the  Department  of  War  would  permit.  It 
might  now  also  proceed  in  Maryland  and  Massa- 
chusetts, and  the  next  post  will,  I  trust,  enable  me 
to  add  Virginia,  but  that  I  do  not  think  it  expedient 
to  outgo  our  supply  of  clothing.  It  will  have  the 
worst  possible  effect,  if  the  recruits  are  to  wait  a 
length  of  time  for  their  clothing. 

I  anticipate  your  mortification  at  such  a  state  of 
things.  Various  causes  are  supposed  to  contribute 
to  it. 

It  is  said,  that  the  President  has  heretofore  not 
thought  it  of  importance  to  accelerate  the  raising  of 
the  army,  and  it  is  well  understood  that  the  Secre- 
tary of  the  Treasury  is  not  convinced  of  its  utility. 
Yet  he  affirms,  that  for  a  long  time  past  he  has  been 
ready  and  willing  to  give  every  aid  depending  on  his 
department. 

The  Secretary  at  War  imputes  the  deficiency  in 
the  article  of  clothing  to  a  failure  of  a  contract  which 
he  had  made,  and  to  the  difficulty  of  suddenly  finding 
a  substitute  by  purchases  in  the  market.  It  is 
therefore  obvious,  that  the  means  which  have  since 
been  pursued  have  not  been  the  best  calculated  for 
dispatch.  The  materials  procured  at  distant  places 
have  been  brought  to  Philadelphia  to  be  made  up. 
They  are  stated  to  be  adequate  in  quantity. 

You  will  observe  that  six  are  numbered  i.  This 
applies  to  a  regiment  in  the  Western  country.  I 
proposed  to  the  Secretary  to  change  the  buttons. 
It  has  not  been  done. 


Hamilton  to  Washington  79 

Yet,  if  the  Secretary's  energies  for  execution  were 
equal  to  his  good  dispositions,  the  public  service 
under  his  care  would  prosper  as  much  as  could  be 
desired.  It  is  only  to  be  regretted  that  good  dis- 
positions will  not  alone  suffice,  and  that,  in  the 
nature  of  things,  there  can  be  no  reliance  that  the 
future  progress  will  be  more  satisfactory  than  the  past. 

Means,  I  trust  sufficient,  have  been  taken  to  pro- 
cure from  Europe  a  supply  of  clothing  for  the  next 
year,  and  the  Secretary  has  assured  me,  that  he 
would  immediately  take  measures  for  procuring  a 
supply  for  the  succeeding  year. 

As  to  other  supplies,  I  believe  things  are  in  toler- 
able train,  and  that  there  is  a  certainty  of  the  most 
essential  articles  in  due  abundance. 

The  officers  for  North  Carolina  have  been  ap- 
pointed. No  nominations  have  come  forward  from 
South  Carolina. 

Not  a  single  field-officer  has  yet  been  appointed 
for  the  regiment  to  be  raised  in  New  Hampshire, 
Vermont,  and  Rhode  Island.  It  seems  the  members 
of  Congress  dissuaded  from  the  nomination  of  those 
who  were  proposed  by  the  general  officers,  and 
promised  to  recommend  preferable  characters;  but 
this  promise  has  not  yet  been  performed.  This 
want  of  organization  is  an  obstacle  to  the  progress 
of  the  affairs  of  this  regiment. 

It  is  understood  that  the  President  has  resolved  to 
appoint  the  officers  to  the  provisional  army,  and  that 
the  Secretary  has  thought  fit  to  charge  the  Senators 
of  each  State  with  the  designation  of  characters. 

With  the  truest  respect  and  attachment,  etc. 


8o  Alexander  Hamilton 

HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  May  3,  1799. 

SIR: — After  mature  reflection  on  the  subject  of 
your  letter  of  the  26th  of  last  month,  I  am  clearly  of 
opinion  that  the  President  has  no  power  to  make, 
alone,  the  appointment  of  officers  to  the  battalion 
which  is  to  be  added  to  the  second  regiment  of 
artillerists  and  engineers. 

In  my  opinion,  "vacancy"  is  a  relative  term,  and 
presupposes  that  the  office  has  been  once  filled.  If 
so,  the  power  to  fill  a  vacancy  is  not  the  power  to 
make  an  original  appointment.  The  terms,  "  which 
may  have  happened,"  serve  to  confirm  this  con- 
struction. They  imply  casualty,  and  denote  such 
offices  as,  having  been  once  filled,  have  become 
vacant  by  accidental  circumstances.  This,  at  least, 
is  the  most  familiar  and  obvious  sense,  and,  in  a 
matter  of  this  kind,  it  could  not  be  advisable  to 
exercise  a  doubtful  authority. 

It  is  clear  that,  independent  of  the  authority  of  a 
special  law,  the  President  cannot  fill  a  vacancy  which 
happens  during  a  session  of  the  Senate. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  May  18,  1799. 

SIR: — It  is  urgent  that  arms  for  the  troops  to  be 
raised  be  at  the  regimental  rendezvous  as  speedily 
as  possible. 

Military  pride  is  to  be  excited  and  kept  up  by 
military  parade.  No  time  ought  to  be  lost  in  teach- 


Washington  to  McHenry  81 

ing  the  recruits  the  use  of  arms.  Guards  are  neces- 
sary as  soon  as  there  are  soldiers,  and  these  require 
arms. 

When  I  came  to  see  the  hats  furnished  for  the  i2th 
regiment,  I  was  disappointed  and  distressed. 

The  Commander-in-Chief  recommended  cocked 
hats.  This  always  means,  hats  cocked  on  three 
sides.  I  was  assured  that  cocked  hats  were  pro- 
vided. I  repeated  the  assurance  to  the  officers. 
But  the  hats  received  are  only  capable  of  being 
cocked  on  one  side,  and  the  brim  is  otherwise  so 
narrow,  as  to  consult  neither  good  appearance  nor 
utility.  They  are  also  without  cockades  and  loops. 

Nothing  is  more  necessary  than  to  stimulate  the 
vanity  of  soldiers.  To  this  end,  a  smart  dress  is 
essential.  When  not  attended  to,  the  soldier  is 
exposed  to  ridicule  and  humiliation.  If  the  articles 
promised  to  him  are  defective  in  quality  or  appear- 
ance, he  becomes  dissatisfied,  and  the  necessity  of 
excusing  the  public  delinquency  towards  him,  is  a 
serious  bar  to  the  enforcement  of  discipline.  The 
government  of  the  country  is  not  now  in  the  indigent 
situation  in  which  it  was  during  our  revolutionary 
war.  It  possesses,  amply,  the  means  of  placing  its 
military  on  a  respectable  footing,  and  its  dignity  and 
its  interest  equally  require  that  it  shall  act  in  con- 
formity with  this  situation.  This  course  is  indeed 
indispensable,  if  a  faithful,  zealous,  and  well-regu- 
lated army  is  thought  necessary  to  the  security  or 
defence  of  the  country. 

VOL.  VII.— 6. 


82  Alexander  Hamilton 

\  4 

HAMILTON   TO    HAMTRANCK 

NEW  YORK,  May  23,  1799. 

SIR: — *  *  *  You  are  aware  that  the  governors 
of  the  Northwestern  Territory  and  the  Mississippi 
Territory  are  severally  ex  ofjicio  superintendents  of 
Indian  affairs.  The  management  of  those  affairs, 
under  the  direction  of  the  Secretary  at  War,  apper- 
tains to  them.  The  military  in  this  respect  are  only 
to  be  auxiliary  to  their  plans  and  measures.  In  say- 
ing this,  it  must  not  be  understood  that  they  are  to 
direct  military  dispositions  and  operations.  But  they 
are  to  be  organs  of  all  negotiations  and  communi- 
cations between  the  Indians  and  the  government. 
They  are  to  determine  when  and  where  supplies 
are  to  be  furnished  to  those  people,  and  what 
other  accommodations  they  are  to  have.  The  mili- 
tary, in  regard  to  all  such  matters,  are  only  to  act 
as  far  as  their  co-operation  may  be  required  by  the 
superintendent,  avoiding  interferences  without  pre- 
vious concert  with  them,  or  otherwise  than  in  con- 
formity with  their  views.  This  will  exempt  the 
military  from  a  responsibility  which  had  better  rest 
elsewhere,  and  it  will  promote  a  regular  and  uniform 
system  of  conduct  towards  the  Indians;  which 
cannot  exist  if  every  commandant  of  a  post  is  to 
intermeddle  separately  and  independently  in  the 
management  of  the  concerns  which  relate  to  them. 

This  communication  is  made  in  conformity  with 
an  instruction  from  the  Secretary  at  War,  who  par- 
ticularly desires  that  "  The  military  officers  may  be 
required  to  refer  the  Indians,  in  all  matters  relating  to 
their  national  affairs  or  grievances,  to  the  Governor 


Circular  83 

of  the  Northwestern  Territory  and  the  Governor  of 
the  Mississippi  Territory,  or  the  temporary  Indian 
Agent  nearest  to  their  post,  as  the  case  may  require ; 
and  th.at  the  commandants  of  the  posts  in  the  Mis- 
sissippi Territory  may  be  instructed  to  furnish  on 
the  order  of  Governor  Sargent,  when  the  same  can 
be  spared,  such  rations  for  the  Indians  who  may 
visit  the  said  posts,  as  he  may  from  time  to  time 
direct." 

This  letter  being  addressed  to  you  as  the  tem- 
porary commander  in  the  presumed  absence  of 
General  Wilkinson,  you  will  act  on  it  accordingly, 
recollecting  that  your  attention  is  to  extend  to  all 
the  troops  and  posts  from  Pittsburgh  westward  to 
the  Mississippi,  on  the  lakes  and  Tennessee ;  in  short, 
to  all  which  constitute  the  Western  army  and  its 
dependencies. 

But  in  saying  this,  as  a  guide  to  you,  it  is  not  my 
intention  to  contravene  any  arrangements  of  com- 
mand which  General  Wilkinson  may  have  made 
previous  to  his  departure. 


CIRCULAR 

NEW  YORK,  May  23,  1799. 

SIR: — It  is  important  to  the  service  in  every  way, 
that  vacancies  which  happen  in  the  several  regi- 
ments should  be  as  speedily  as  possible  filled.  As 
no  person  can  be  more  interested  in  this  being  done, 
and  with  a  careful  selection  of  character,  than  the 
commandants  of  regiments,  it  is  desirable  that  they 
should,  from  time  to  time,  propose  to  the  general 


84  Alexander  Hamilton 

under  whose  command  they  may  be,  candidates  for 
filling  those  vacancies,  in  order  that  they  may  be  by 
him  offered  to  the  consideration  of  the  Executive. 

In  doing  this,  however,  it  must  be  recollected,  that 
there  is  no  part  of  his  functions  in  which  it  is  upon 
principle  more  essential  that  the  Executive  should 
be  perfectly  free  from  extrinsic  influences  of  every 
kind,  than  that  of  the  choice  of  officers.  Hence  it  is 
proper  that  no  expectation  should  be  entertained  that 
the  characters  presented  for  consideration  will  be 
preferred,  that  no  encouragement  should  be  given 
them  which  may  occasion  embarrassment  or  chagrin 
in  case  of  their  not  being  adopted,  and  that  no  in- 
ferences painful  to  the  person  recommending  should 
be  drawn  from  the  failure  of  the  recommendation. 
This  failure  will  doubtless  often  happen.  Informa- 
tion of  more  eligible  candidates  will  frequently  come 
through  other  channels.  Collateral  considerations 
will  in  no  small  number  of  instances  occur,  which,  be- 
tween candidates  of  equal  pretensions,  will  naturally 
lead  to  a  preference  of  persons  who  may  have  been 
presented  through  other  channels. 

In  a  word,  the  recommendation  of  the  command- 
ant is  only  to  be  considered  as  one  mode  in  which  in- 
formation of  fit  characters  may  be  conveyed  to  the 
Executive. 

It  occasionally  happens  that  experience  leads  to 
alterations  in  the  sub-districts  or  their  rendezvouses. 
It  is  expected  that  whenever  this  happens,  the  com- 
mandant within  whose  circle  it  occurs  will  give  notice 
of  the  change  to  the  contractor  of  his  circle,  in  order 
that  provision  may  be  made  for  the  requisite  supply. 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  85 

It  is  understood  that  some  misapprehension  has 
existed  among  some  recruiting  officers  about  the 
articles  which  the  contractors  and  their  agents  are 
to  supply. 

It  will  be  proper  to  signify  to  them  that  these  are 
only  to  embrace  provisions,  quarters,  fuel,  straw, 
and,  where  there  is  no  surgeon,  medical  aid  and 
supply. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  MAY  23,  1799. 

*  *  *  Embarrassment  being  likely  to  grow 
out  of  the  question  about  the  sales  of  the  Indians  to 
the  individuals  alluded  to,  will  it  not  be  expedient 
for  the  public  to  hold  a  treaty  with  them,  and  make 
the  acquisition  of  the  lands  to  the  use  of  the  United 
States?  A  small  compensation  to  the  Indians  will 
satisfy  all  their  scruples,  and  the  United  States  will 
be  enabled  to  control  the  intrusions  of  the  irregular 
purchasers.  Otherwise  it  is  probable  settlements 
will  grow  up  under  their  titles  hostile  to  government, 
because  originally  in  disobedience  to  law.  It  may 
also  be  a  question  whether,  if  by  the  effect  of  their 
purchase  the  acquisition  can  be  made  by  the  United 
States  on  easier  terms,  it  may  not  be  advisable  to 
extinguish  their  pretensions  by  the  grant  of  a  portion 
of  their  lands.  This  probably  may  be  accomplished 
without  difficulty.  Temporizing  measures  on  a  dis- 
tant frontier  are  often  proper  for  a  government 
which  does  not  choose  to  keep  on  foot  a  considerable 
force,  effectually  to  awe  sedition  and  hostility. 


86  Alexander  Hamilton 

HAMILTON    TO    COL.    STEVENS 

NEW  YORK,  May  24,  1799. 

SIR: — I  understand  from  the  Secretary  at  War, 
that  in  the  capacity  of  agent  for  the  War  Depart- 
ment I  am  to  look  to  you  for  the  duties  usually 
performed  by  the  quartermaster-general  and  commis- 
sary of  military  stores.  I  shall  look  to  you  accord- 
ingly for  these  services,  and  therefore  shall  direct 
all  returns  relating  to  the  proper  objects  to  be 
made  to  you,  in  the  expectation  that  you  will  attend 
to  the  procuring  and  forwarding  of  such  as  are  re- 
quired with  propriety.  With  this  view  you  will 
open  a  correspondence  with  the  proper  officers  at 
the  seat  of  government.  The  present  system  is  that 
Tench  Francis,  Esq.,  as  purveyor  of  supplies,  pro- 
cures all  articles  in  the  several  branches  of  supply, 
which  are  placed  by  him  in  the  disposition  of  Samuel 
Hodgdon,  Esq.,  as  superintendent  of  military  stores, 
who  is  to  oversee  all  the  issues  of  those  articles.  I 
believe  the  quartermaster-general  is  to  take  his  sta- 
tion at  the  seat  of  government,  and  is  to  be  the 
auxiliary  of  those  officers. 

It  is  expected  that  the  great  mass  of  supplies  will 
be  procured  and  furnished  by  the  immediate  agency 
of  the  officers  above  mentioned,  and  that  you  will 
only  be  incidentally  called  upon  to  provide.  But 
you  will  have  to  make  application  for  the  supplies 
which  will  be  wanted  at  the  different  stations  and 
posts  of  the  army,  and  to  see  that  they  are  punc- 
tually and  expeditiously  furnished  by  those  whose 
province  it  is  to  do  so.  For  this  purpose  you  will 
forward  to  them  the  returns  which  you  shall  receive, 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  87 

first  taking  such  abstracts  from  them  as  will  enable 
you  to  judge  how  far  they  have  been  complied  with. 
This  points  out  the  general  line  of  the  service  ex- 
pected from  you.  Explanations,  as  occasions  occur, 
will  be  made  for  your  more  particular  information. 

I  shall  count  fully  upon  your  diligence  and  zeal, 
and  if  not  in  the  first  instance,  at  least  eventually,  I 
shall  confide  that  a  compensation  adequate  to  what 
shall  appear  to  be  the  extent  of  your  trouble  and  re- 
sponsibility will  be  made. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  May  25,  1799. 

SIR: — I  recur  to  two  of  your  letters  of  the  gth  and 
loth  instant.  The  reflections  in  the  first  respecting 
the  enlistment  of  foreigners  entirely  accord  with  my 
impressions,  as  you  have  heretofore  seen.  I  adhere 
to  the  opinion,  that  none  but  natives,  or  naturalized 
citizens,  ought  to  be  engaged.  Of  the  latter,  resi- 
dence in  this  country  anterior  to  our  revolution,  to  be 
proved  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  recruiting  officer,  or  a 
certificate  of  the  naturalization, ought  to  be  the  criter- 
ion ;  and  none  ought  to  be  enlisted  who  have  not  re- 
sided in  the  county  where  they  shall  be  enlisted  at 
least  one  year  immediately  preceding  the  enlistment. 

It  is  true  that  contraventions  of  the  rule,  by 
imposition  upon,  or  connivance  of,  the  recruiting 
officers,  will  in  some  instances  happen.  But  they 
will  not  be  so  numerous  as  to  prevent  the  object 
being  essentially  attained. 

The  idea  is  held  out  in  your  letter  of  postponing 
the  enlistment  of  foreigners  until  after  a  district 


88  Alexander  Hamilton 

should  be  exhausted  of  natives  willing  to  enlist.  I 
should  doubt  the  expediency  of  a  distinction  which 
is  not  permanent.  The  preference  might  create  dis- 
gust, and  perhaps  an  injurious  collision. 

I  shall  be  glad  to  know  speedily  the  result  of  your 
further  consideration  of  the  subject. 

P.  S. — In  a  scene  so  near  the  seat  of  government 
as  that  in  which  the  late  insurrection  has  existed, 
and  so  perfectly  within  its  command,  the  policy  of 
stationing,  for  any  length  of  time,  a  small  body  of 
foot- soldiers,  with  the  manifest  intention  to  awe  the 
spirit  of  insurrection,  appears  to  me  questionable. 
Were  I  at  liberty  to  pursue  my  own  inclination,  I 
should  now  order  the  troops  to  the  destinations  to 
which  they  have  been  assigned. 

Under  this  impression,  I  inclose  an  order  for  Capt. 
Henry's  company  to  proceed  to  Powles  Hook,  on 
his  way  to  his  ultimate  destination  in  the  Eastern 
quarter.  If  you  approve,  you  will  please  forward  it. 
Capt.  Freeman's  company  at  West  Point,  which 
is  to  form  part  of  the  battalion  for  the  field,  is  or- 
dered to  New  York,  whence,  if  you  think  proper,  it 
can  march  to  replace  Capt.  Henry's  company. 

HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  May  27,  1799. 

SIR: — The  returns  from  every  quarter  show  that 
desertion  prevails  to  a  ruinous  extent.  For  this  the 
natural  remedies  are:  ist,  greater  attention  to  dis- 
cipline; 2d,  additional  care  in  furnishing  the  sup- 
plies due  to  the  soldiery,  of  such  quality  and  with 


Hamilton  to  Hamtranck  89 

such  exactness  as  will  leave  no  real  cause  for  dis- 
satisfaction ;  3d,  the  forbearance  to  enlist  foreigners ; 
and  lastly,  energy  in  the  punishment  of  offenders. 

To  promote  the  first,  will  be  my  peculiar  care.  The 
second,  I  doubt  not,  will  have  from  you  all  the  at- 
tention due  to  a  matter  of  primary  importance. 
The  third  I  hope  soon  to  receive  your  instruction  to 
put  in  execution.  As  to  the  fourth,  I  must  entreat 
that  you  will  make  such  a  representation  to  the 
President  as  will  convince  him  of  the  absolute 
necessity,  where  his  agency  must  intervene,  of 
giving  effect  to  the  sentences  of  the  courts.  His 
determination  upon  one  some  time  since  reported 
to  you  has  not  yet  been  received,  and  I  expect 
it  with  great  solicitude ;  there  cannot  occur  a  more 
fit  case  for  exemplary  punishment.  If  this  cul- 
prit escapes,  the  example  of  his  impunity  will  have 
a  most  malignant  aspect  towards  the  service.  I  re- 
peat it,  sir,  this  is  a  point  of  such  essential  conse- 
quence, that  you  cannot  bestow  too  much  pains  to 
satisfy  the  President  that  severity  is  indispensable. 
It  is  painful  to  urge  a  position  of  this  kind,  especially 
where  life  is  concerned ;  but  a  military  institution  must 
be  worse  than  useless — it  must  be  pernicious, — if  a 
just  severity  does  not  uphold  and  enforce  discipline. 


HAMILTON    TO    HAMTRANCK 

(Private.) 

NEW  YORK,  June  6,  1799. 

DEAR  SIR: 

I  duly  received  your  private  letters  of  the  — 


and  the  25th  of  January  last,  to  which  a  very  extra- 


9°  Alexander  Hamilton 

ordinary  pressure  of  business  has  prevented  a  reply. 
Such  of  your  remarks  as  are  personal  to  me  are  very 
gratifying. 

I  hope  your  expectations  will  not  finally  be  disap- 
pointed, though  it  will  require  time  before  a  com- 
plete organization  of  what  is  now  a  very  disjointed 
mass,  will  enable  me  to  establish  perfect  order. 
Zeal,  at  least,  my  friends  know  will  not  be  wanting. 

The  request  you  make  with  respect  to  yourself, 
though  unusual,  is  very  natural,  considering  past  ex- 
perience. It  will  not  fail  to  influence  my  advice,  un- 
less I  perceive  that  your  feelings  and  your  interest 
as  a  soldier  can  be  mutually  consulted. 

Communicate  to  me  freely  and  confidentially  on 
the  subject  of  Western  affairs;  you  are  sure  of  my 
discretion  and  honor. 


HAMILTON   TO   WASHINGTON 

NEW  YORK,  June  7,  1799. 

DEAR  SIR: 

I  did  myself  the  honor  to  write  to  you  at  some 
length  on  the  3d  of  May.  I  hope  the  letter  got  safe 
to  hand. 

The  recruiting  service  is  now  in  motion  in  Mary- 
land, Delaware,  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  New 
York,  Connecticut,  and  Massachusetts;  I  might, 
perhaps,  add  Virginia,  from  the  assurances  which  I 
have  received  as  to  the  transmission  of  supplies,  but 
I  am  not  as  yet  informed  of  its  actual  commence- 
ment in  that  State.  This  cannot  be  much  longer 
delayed. 


Hamilton  to  Washington  91 

The  field-officers  for  the  regiment,  which  em- 
braces New  Hampshire,  Vermont,  and  Rhode  Island 
have  been  lately  appointed.  They  are  Rufus  Graves, 
lieutenant-colonel;  Timothy  Tarling  and  Cornelius 
Lynde,  majors.  The  moment  money  and  clothing 
shall  arrive,  the  recruiting  will  begin  there  and  in 
North  Carolina.  But  I  do  not  view  this  as  very 
near. 

I  do  not  understand  that  the  officers  for  South 
Carolina  and  Georgia  have  yet  been  recommended. 

The  information  I  receive  as  to  the  progress  and 
prosperity  of  the  recruiting  service,  is  sufficiently 
encouraging.  Colonel  Taylor,  commandant  of  the 
regiment  raising  in  Connecticut,  assures  me  that  he 
is  persuaded,  if  no  obstacle  arises  from  supplies,  that 
in  two  months  his  regiment  will  be  filled  by  native 
Americans.  From  other  quarters  the  intelligence 
is  very  well.  I  permit  myself  to  hope  that  in  the 
summer  and  fall  the  army  will  be  at  its  complement. 

I  send  you  a  copy  of  the  arrangement  which  has 
been  made  of  the  two  regiments  of  artillerists; 
measures  are  taking  to  carry  it  into  execution.  The 
distribution  of  the  officers  of  the  Western  army  is 
referred  to  Colonel  Burbeck. 

There  is  nothing  further  in  the  military  line  worthy 
of  your  attention  to  communicate.  When  I  shall 
have  obtained  more  assistance  I  shall  write  more 
frequently. 

A  letter  from  Mr.  King  contains  this  unpleasant 
intelligence.  The  publication  of  the  treaty  of  Campo- 
Formio  by  the  Directory,  will  injure  the  affairs  of 
the  emperor.  It  will  increase  the  jealousy  of  the 


92  Alexander  Hamilton 

king  of  Prussia  and  of  the  emperor,  whose  safety  and 
interests  were  too  little  in  view  in  that  treaty.  There 
is  no  end  to  the  folly  of  the  potentates  who  are  ar- 
rayed against  France.  We  impatiently  expect  fur- 
ther accounts  of  the  operations  of  the  archduke,  and 
entertain  a  strong  hope  that  his  genius  and  energy 
will  turn  to  good  account  the  advantage  he  has 
gained. 

Most  respectfully  and  affectionately  I  have  the 
honor  to  be,  etc. 


HAMILTON   TO 

NEW  YORK,  June  12,  1799. 

It  will  be  with  great  regret  that  I  shall  at  any  time 
see  in  the  conduct  of  an  officer  intentional  negligence 
or  disrespect.  I  am  the  less  disposed  to  suppose 
either  in  the  present  case,  because  it  is  impossible  to 
imagine  a  motive.  Yet  I  owe  it  to  propriety  to  re- 
mark, that  your  continued  silence  has  been  ill- 
judged. 

The  obstacles  which  you  mention  to  the  making 
of  the  returns,  did  not  render  it  impracticable  to 
acknowledge  the  receipt  of  my  letters,  and  to  inform 
me  of  the  causes  of  delay,  and  of  what  was  intended, 
which  certainly  ought  to  have  been  done. 


HAMILTON   TO    WASHINGTON 
(Private.) 

NEW  YORK,  June  15,  1799. 

DEAR  SIR: 

I  wrote  to  you  a  few  days  since,  chiefly  to  inform 
you  of  the  progress  of  the  measures  respecting  the 


Hamilton  to  Washington  93 

recruiting  service,  and  that  the  symptoms  with  re- 
gard to  it  were  sufficiently  promising.  The  accounts 
continue  favorable. 

I  have  just  received  a  letter  from  General  Wilkin- 
son, dated  the  i3th  April,  in  which  he  assures  me  he 
will  set  out  in  the  ensuing  month  for  the  seat  of 
government.  The  interview  with  him  will  be  useful. 

It  strikes  me  forcibly,  that  it  will  be  right  and  ex- 
pedient to  advance  this  gentleman  to  the  grade  of 
major-general.  He  has  been  long  steadily  in  service, 
and  long  a  brigadier.  This,  in  so  considerable  an 
extension  of  the  military  establishment,  gives  him  a 
pretension  to  promotion. 

I  am  aware  that  some  doubts  have  been  entertained 
of  him,  and  that  his  character  on  certain  sides,  gives 
room  for  doubt.  Yet  he  is  at  present  in  the  service, 
is  a  man  of  more  than  ordinary  talent,  of  courage  and 
enterprise ;  has  discovered  upon  various  occasions  a 
good  zeal,  has  embraced  military  pursuits  as  a  pro- 
fession, and  will  naturally  find  his  interest,  as  an 
ambitious  man,  in  deserving  the  favor  of  the  govern- 
ment; while  he  will  be  apt  to  become  disgusted,  if 
neglected;  and  through  disgust  may  be  rendered 
really  what  he  is  now  only  suspected  to  be.  Under 
such  circumstances,  it  seems  to  me  good  policy 
to  avoid  all  just  grounds  of  discontent,  and  to 
make  it  the  interest  of  the  individual  to  pursue  his 
duty. 

If  you  should  be  also  of  this  opinion,  I  submit  to 
your  consideration,  whether  it  would  not  be  advis- 
able for  you  to  express  it  in  a  private  letter  to  the 
Secretary  at  War. 


94  Alexander  Hamilton 

HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  June  16,  1799. 

DEAR  SIR: 

Seeing  the  terrible  delays  which  take  place,  is  it 
not  advisable  immediately  to  authorize  your  agent 
at  New  York  and  Boston,  to  take  prompt  measures 
for  increasing  your  supply  of  clothing,  tents,  and 
such  other  articles  as  are  in  arrear?  Considering 
past  experience,  can  you  possibly  depend  on  the 
present  plan  for  the  future  supply?  If  blue  cloth 
cannot  be  found  for  the  whole,  better  to  take  some 
other  color  by  entire  regiments  for  those  which  have 
not  yet  begun  to  recruit. 

The  Brest  fleet  is  out.  Its  destination  is  in  all 
probability  Ireland;  but  ought  we  so  entirely  to  rely 
upon  this  as  to  omit  to  take  the  precaution  of  having 
some  fast-sailing  vessels  on  the  look-out  before  our 
principal  ports — Charleston,  the  entrance  of  the 
Chesapeake,  the  Delaware,  New  York,  Newport, 
Boston, — with  perhaps  the  establishment  of  signals? 

It  would  be  awkward  to  be  entirely  surprised,  and 
to  have  some  of  our  banks  fall  into  the  hands  of  the 
Philistines.  When  we  think  of  Egypt,  we  ought 
not  to  consider  the  attempt  as  impracticable.  An- 
nouncing that  it  is  a  mere  act  of  caution  without  in- 
telligence, no  inconvenient  alarm  will  be  created.  It 
may  even  be  useful  to  bring  home  to  the  minds  of 
our  citizens,  that  our  government  does  not  deem  an 
invasion  impossible. 

Colonel  Stevens  informs  me,  that  some  time  since 
the  United  States  lent  to  New  York  a  thousand 
stand  of  arms,  which  are  exposed  in  a  situation  to  be 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  95 

lost,  and  are  not  wanted  by  the  State.     There  is  no 
reason  why  their  return  should  not  be  asked. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 
(Private.) 

NEW  YORK,  June  25,  1799. 

MY  DEAR  SIR: 

I  conclude  from  your  letter  by  to-day's  post,  that 
your  own  opinion  in  regard  to  the  raising  of  a  troop 
of  horse  is  made  up,  and  that  you  only  delay  a  deter- 
mination from  the  necessity  of  a  reference  elsewhere. 
This  is  a  point  that  I  have  so  much  at  heart,  that  I 
should  be  sorry  any  thing  was  risked  about  it.  If  you 
think  there  is  the  least  danger  of  disappointment,  I 
will  write  to  the  Commander-in-Chief  to  obtain  for 
you  the  support  of  his  ideas. 

It  is  of  very  material  consequence  to  have  a  troop 
raised,  as  a  stock  on  which  to  ingraft  a  system  of 
tactics  for  the  cavalry.  Hitherto,  it  may  be  said,  we 
have  had  none.  Improvements  are  going  on  in 
Europe.  This  particular  arm  is  not  brought  to  per- 
fection even  there.  Opinions  are  somewhat  un- 
settled. It  is  very  desirable  to  have  an  organ  by 
which  we  can  essay  the  various  plans,  and  upon 
which  we  can  establish  the  model  of  a  good  system. 

As  to  the  two  troops  already  raised,  they  ought  to 
remain  where  they  are. 

Another  subject: 

General  Wilkinson  is  soon  expected.  I  am  strongly 
inclined  to  see  him  made  a  major-general.  He  has 
had  now  a  great  deal  of  experience;  he  possesses 


g6  Alexander  Hamilton 

considerable  military  information;  he  has  activity, 
courage,  and  talents;  his  pretensions  to  promotion, 
in  every  view,  are  strong.  If  he  should  become  dis- 
gusted without  it,  it  would  not  be  extraordinary. 

Half -confidence  is  always  bad.  This  officer  has 
adopted  military  life  as  a  profession.  What  can  his 
ambition  do  better  than  be  faithful  to  the  govern- 
ment, if  it  gives  him  fair  play? 


HAMILTON   TO 

NEW  YORK,  June  25,  1799. 

#  #  #  You  will  allow  me,  however,  to  remark 
to  you  with  frankness,  that  there  is  in  my  opinion 
something  too  absolute  in  your  manner  of  declining 
this  service,  and  that  I  cannot  give  my  sanction  to 
the  sentiment  in  your  letter,  contained  in  these 
words:  "I  cannot  possibly,  except  in  actual  war, 
separate  myself  from  her  [your  wife]  and  my  chil- 
dren," etc.  You  have  too  much  discernment,  and 
too  well  know  the  principles  of  service,  not  to  be 
sensible  that  it  is  the  essential  condition  of  military 
employment  that,  in  peace  as  in  war,  an  officer  shall 
be  ready  to  execute  the  trusts,  relatively  to  his  sta- 
tion, to  which  he  may  be  designated.  That  the 
peremptory  claim  of  an  exemption  from  this  rule 
cannot  be  advanced,  whatever  may  be  the  hope  of 
indulgence  towards  a  very  peculiar  situation. 

Doubtless,  therefore,  you  will  see  it  proper  to 
correct  the  latitude  and  force  of  the  expressions 
which  you  have  used,  as  transcending  your  real 
meaning. 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  97 

HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  June  27,  1799. 

It  is  a  pity,  my  dear  sir,  and  a  reproach,  that  our 
administration  have  no  general  plan.  Certainly 
there  ought  to  be  one  formed  without  delay.  If  the 
chief  is  too  desultory,  his  ministry  ought  to  be  more 
united  and  steady,  and  well-settled  in  some  reason- 
able system  of  measures. 

Among  other  things,  it  should  be  agreed  what  pre- 
cise force  should  be  created,  naval  and  land,  and 
this  proportioned  to  the  state  of  our  finances.  It 
will  be  ridiculous  to  raise  troops,  and  immediately 
after  to  disband  them.  Six  ships  of  the  line  and 
twenty  frigates  and  sloops  of  war  are  desirable. 
More  would  not  now  be  comparatively  expedient. 
It  is  desirable  to  complete  and  prepare  the  land 
force  which  has  been  provided  for  by  law.  Besides 
eventual  security  against  invasion,  we  ought  cer- 
tainly to  look  to  the  possession  of  the  Floridas  and 
Louisiana,  and  we  ought  to  squint  at  South  America. 

Is  it  possible  that  the  accomplishment  of  these 
objects  can  be  attended  with  financial  difficulty? 
I  deny  the  possibility.  Our  revenue  can  be  con- 
siderably reinforced.  The  progress  of  the  country 
will  quickly  supply  small  deficiencies,  and  these  can 
be  temporarily  satisfied  by  loans,  provided  our  loans 
are  made  on  the  principle  that  we  require  the  ali- 
ment of  European  capital, — that  lenders  are  to  gain, 
and  their  gains  to  be  facilitated,  not  obstructed. 

If  all  this  is  not  true,  our  situation  is  much  worse 
than  I  had  any  idea  of.  But  I  have  no  doubt  that 
it  is  easy  to  devise  the  means  of  execution. 

VOL.  VII.— 7. 


98  Alexander  Hamilton 

And  if  there  was  everywhere  a  disposition,  without 
prejudice  and  nonsense,  to  concert  a  rational  plan,  I 
would  cheerfully  come  to  Philadelphia  and  assist  in 
it ;  nor  can  I  doubt  that  success  may  be  insured. 

Break  this  subject  to  our  friend  Pickering.  His 
views  are  sound  and  energetic.  Try  together  to 
bring  the  other  gentlemen  to  a  consultation.  If 
there  is  everywhere  a  proper  temper,  and  it  is  wished, 
send  for  me,  and  I  will  come. 

Yours  truly, 

A.  HAMILTON. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  July  8,  1799. 

SIR: — I  have  considered  the  rules  transmitted  in 
your  letter  of  the  2d  instant  relative  to  rank  and 
promotion. 

They  appear  to  me  founded  on  just  principles,  nor 
do  I  know  that  they  can  be  improved.  I  will,  how- 
ever, present  to  your  consideration  some  observa- 
tions on  two  or  three  points. 

It  seems  to  me  questionable  whether  the  prefer- 
ence given  to  full  colonels  of  the  deranged  officers 
over  the  lieutenant-colonel  commandants,  who  served 
to  the  end  of  the  war,  be  expedient. 

It  is  making  that  a  matter  of  substance  which  was 
purely  nominal.  The  grade  of  lieutenant-colonel 
commandant  was  in  our  system,  to  all  intents  and 
purposes  of  service  and  promotion,  equal  to  that 
of  colonel.  And  the  general  principle  of  preferring 
officers  who  served  to  the  end  of  the  war,  seems  to 
me  as  applicable  to  this  particular  as  to  any  other. 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  99 

It  is  desirable  to  exempt  a  military  commander 
from  the  exercise  of  a  discretion  in  personal  matters 
which  may  expose  him  to  the  supposition  of  favor- 
itism. It  is  possible  the  Commander-in-Chief  may 
not  like  to  be  charged  with  that  which  is  proposed 
to  be  conferred  upon  him ;  though  he  could  have  no 
objection  to  aid  the  determination  of  the  President 
with  all  requisite  information.  Perhaps  the  clause 
may  with  advantage  be  altered  to  stand  thus :  "  The 
relative  rank  of  officers  who  have  not  been  in  service 
will  be  determined  by  the  President.  The  Com- 
mander-in-Chief will  report  to  him  their  names,  with 
such  information  as  he  may  deem  proper." 

The  last  clause  will,  I  think,  be  more  accurate,  if 
altered  into  this  form:  "On  the  happening  of  a 
vacancy,  the  officer  next  in  rank  will  in  ordinary 
cases  be  considered  as  the  most  proper  person  to  fill 
the  same.  But  this  rule  is  considered  as  subiect  to 
exceptions  in  extraordinary  cases." 

It  will  be  useful,  also,  in  my  opinion,  to  add  a 
clause  to  this  effect:  "  In  promotions  to  the  several 
ranks  of  generals,  the  officers  of  cavalry,  artillery,  and 
infantry  will  be  considered  as  eligible  indiscrimin- 
ately, or  without  distinction  of  one  corps  for  another. " 

To  confine  the  officers  of  artillery  and  cavalry  to 
their  particular  corps  in  the  appointments  of  general 
officers,  is  to  render  the  chance  of  promotion  un- 
equal, and  to  discourage  in  the  several  classes  of 
officers  the  study  of  all  the  branches  of  tactics.  The 
contrary  principle  will  have  a  contrary  effect;  and 
though  it  is  rarely  to  be  expected  that  an  officer  of 
cavalry  or  infantry  will  be  competent  to  the  service 


ioo  Alexander  Hamilton 

of  the  artillery,  yet  nothing  is  more  easy  than  for  the 
officers  of  those  corps  to  be  acquainted  with  the 
tactics  of  each,  and  an  officer  of  artillery  can  without 
difficulty  make  himself  master  of  the  tactics  of  the 
cavalry  and  infantry.  The  plan  of  an  indiscriminate 
choice  will  also  increase  the  chances  of  having  quali- 
fied generals. 

And  if  the  idea  itself  be  approved,  it  is  expedient 
to  prepare  the  army  to  expect  its  application  by  en- 
grafting it  in  the  system  of  promotion. 


HAMILTON  TO  SECRETARY  AT  WAR 

NEW  YORK,  July  29,  1799. 

SIR: — I  have  the  honor  to  acknowledge  the  re- 
ceipt of  your  letter  of  the  2$th  instant,  inclosing  a 
warrant  for  the  execution  of  Sergeant  Hunt. 

I  have  reflected  carefully  on  the  point  submitted 
to  our  joint  consideration,  and,  upon  the  whole,  I 
incline  to  the  side  of  forbearance. 

The  temper  of  our  country  is  not  a  little  opposed 
to  the  frequency  of  capital  punishment.  Public 
opinion,  in  this  respect,  though  it  must  not  have 
too  much  influence,  is  not  wholly  to  be  disregarded. 
There  must  be  some  caution  not  to  render  our  mili- 
tary system  odious  by  giving  it  the  appearance  of 
being  sanguinary. 

Considering,  too,  the  extreme  lenity  in  time  past, 
there  may  be  danger  of  shocking  even  the  opinion  of 
the  army  by  too  violent  a  change.  The  idea  of 
cruelty  inspires  disgust,  and  ultimately  is  not  much 
more  favorable  to  authority  than  the  excess  of  lenity. 


Hamilton  to  Secretary  at  War  101 

Neither  is  it  clear  that  one  example,  so  quickly 
following  upon  the  heels  of  another,  in  the  same 
corps,  will  materially  increase  the  impression  in- 
tended to  be  made,  or  answer  any  valuable  pur- 
pose. 

If,  for  any  or  all  of  these  reasons,  the  utility  of  the 
measure  be  doubtful,  in  favor  of  life  it  ought  to  be 
forborne.  It  is  the  true  policy  of  the  government  to 
maintain  an  attitude  which  shall  express  a  reluct- 
ance to  strike,  united  with  a  determination  to  do  it 
whenever  it  shall  be  essential. 

It  is  but  too  certain  that  it  will  not  be  long  before 
other  instances  will  occur  in  which  the  same  punish- 
ment will  be  decreed  for  the  same  offence.  To  dis- 
seminate the  examples  of  executions  so  far  as  they 
shall  be  indispensable,  will  serve  to  render  them 
more  efficacious. 

Under  these  impressions,  if  I  hear  nothing  to  the 
contrary  from  you  by  the  return  of  the  post,  I  shall 
issue  an  order  to  the  following  effect :  "  That,  though 
the  President  has  fully  approved  the  sentence  of 
Sergeant  Hunt,  and,  from  the  heinous  nature  of  his 
conduct,  considers  him  a  very  fit  subject  for  punish- 
ment; yet,  being  unwilling  to  multiply  examples  of 
severity,  however  just,  beyond  what  experience  may 
show  to  be  indispensable,  and  hoping  that  the  good 
faith  and  patriotism  of  the  soldiery  will  spare  him 
the  painful  necessity  of  frequently  resorting  to  them, 
he  has  thought  fit  to  authorize  a  remission  of  the 
punishment;  directing,  nevertheless,  that  Sergeant 
Hunt  be  degraded  from  his  station." 

I  request  to  be  speedily  instructed. 


102  Alexander  Hamilton 

HAMILTON    TO    STODDERT 

NEW  YORK,  July  29,  1799. 

DEAR  SIR: 

A  press  of  various  business  has  delayed  a  reply  to 
your  favor  of  the  ipth  instant. 

The  principle  you  suggest  for  my  consideration, 
though,  if  it  could  be  introduced,  it  would  work 
well,  cannot,  in  my  opinion,  be  put  into  practice. 
It  would  contravene  too  much  pretensions  rooted 
as  well  in  the  human  heart  as  in  unconquerable 
prejudices  of  the  military  state;  by  which  expres- 
sions I  include  the  naval  department.  Carrying  in 
the  very  fact  an  avowed  preference,  humiliating  to 
the  pride  of  the  superior  officer,  and  reversing  the 
order  of  antecedent  relations,  a  cheerful  submission 
could  never  be  obtained. 

The  alternative  you  mention  is  the  proper  expe- 
dient, and  a  very  necessary  one  it  is.  It  will  be 
happy  if  Congress  can  be  induced  to  adopt  it. 

With  very  great  esteem,  I  have  the  honor,  etc. 

To  Secretary  of  Navy. 


HAMILTON   TO    COLONEL   SMITH 

(Circular.) 

NEW  YORK,  August  9,  1799. 

SIR: — Our  political  situation  renders  it  very  ur- 
gent that  not  a  moment  shall  be  lost  in  disciplining 
our  troops  as  fast  as  they  shall  be  raised.  To  this 
end  it  is  essential  that  every  officer  shall  personally 
exert  himself  to  the  utmost ;  and  that  a  very  faulty 
practice  which  has  occasionally  prevailed  in  our 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  103 

armies,  as  well  as  others,  shall  be  carefully  avoided — 
namely,  commanders  of  regiments  leaving  too  much 
to  their  majors,  these  to  the  adjutants,  and  the 
company  officers  to  their  sergeants. 

It  is  expected  that  each  commandant  of  a  regiment 
will  himself  industriously  exercise  his  regiment  in 
the  manual  and  evolutions;  that  each  major  will  do 
the  like  in  his  battalion,  and  the  company  officers  in 
their  several  companies.  These  last  must  charge 
themselves  with  the  detail  of  instructing  their  men 
from  the  beginning;  using  their  non-commissioned 
officers  as  auxiliaries,  not  as  their  representatives 
or  substitutes;  and  the  field-officers  must  carefully 
superintend  the  company  officers  in  relation  to  this 
detail. 

This  course  will  have  the  double  advantage  of  in- 
suring the  rapid  improvement  of  the  soldiers,  and  of 
giving  every  officer  practical  expertness  within  his 
sphere,  without  which  an  army  is  nothing  but  a 
mass  of  disorderly  elements. 

In  the  reply  which  I  expect  to  make  to  the  several 
corps,  I  hope  for  the  gratification  of  observing,  in 
the  proficiency  of  officers  and  men,  that  the  instruc- 
tion contained  in  this  letter  has  been  carefully  and 
zealously  executed. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  August  13,  1799. 

DEAR  SIR: 

Every  day  must  prove  more  and  more  to  every- 
body that  it  is  impossible  to  serve  two  masters.     I 


iO4  Alexander  Hamilton 

cannot  be  a  general  and  a  practiser  of  the  law  at  the 
same  time,  without  doing  injustice  to  the  government 
and  myself.  Hence  I  am  anxious  to  disentangle  my- 
self more  completely  than  I  have  yet  done  from  foren- 
sic pursuits.  But  to  be  able  to  do  this,  I  must  call  to 
my  succor  all  the  emoluments  which  I  have  a  right 
to  claim.  Hitherto  I  have  had  neither  quarters, 
nor  fuel,  nor  servants.  The  two  last  I  shall  take 
measures  for  myself.  But  the  former  I  have  had 
some  scruples  about,  and  wish  an  instruction  con- 
cerning it  from  you,  which  may  be  addressed  as 
well  to  General  Pinckney  as  to  myself.  On  this 
article,  too,  I  have  no  doubt  of  my  right  to  order  the 
person  acting  as  quartermaster  to  provide  quarters 
for  me  and  my  suite.  Every  commanding  general 
has  this  right,  and  situated  as  I  am,  in  a  time  of 
no  active  operations,  with  the  force  under  my  com- 
mand dispersed  to  various  points,  I  have  no  doubt 
that  the  strictest  propriety  accords  with  my  per- 
sonal station  being  where  it  is,  and  that  in  this 
station  it  is  in  every  view  fit  that  I  should  have  pro- 
vided at  public  expense  for  myself  and  suite,  a  house 
as  quarters  suited  to  my  rank  and  command.  The 
procuring  of  a  better  one  than  I  now  occupy  would 
be  strictly  justifiable;  but  it  is  not  my  wish  to  do  it. 

How  do  you  construe  the  4th  section  of  the  act  of 
March  3,  1797,  respecting  double  rations,  in  reference 
to  the  officers  appointed  under  the  act  for  augment- 
ing the  army? 

This  question  has,  in  cases  foreign  to  the  spirit  of 
the  provision,  come  up  from  some  of  the  officers  of 
the  twelve  additional  regiments,  and  it  will  prob- 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  105 

ably  soon  come  up  in  others.  It  is  important  to  the 
two  major-generals,  as  well  as  others;  and  it  ought 
to  apply  to  them.  Yet  the  law  must  not  be  strained, 
but  future  provision  made  where  the  existing  one  is 
deficient. 

You  must  not  think  me  rapacious.  I  have  not 
changed  my  character.  But  my  situation  as  com- 
manding general  exposes  me  to  much  additional  ex- 
pense in  entertaining  officers  occasionally  in  the  city 
of  New  York,  and  citizens  and  foreigners  who  come 
to  pay  their  respects  to  the  commanding  general; 
and  adding  this  consideration  to  the  circumstance  of 
a  wife  and  six  children,  whose  maintenance  and  edu- 
cation are  to  be  taken  care  of,  I  shall  stand  in  need 
of  all  I  can  fairly  get  from  the  public,  if  I  am  essen- 
tially to  renounce  my  profession. 

Adieu. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  August  13,  1799. 

SIR: — It  is  now  time  to  take  measures  for  the 
establishment  of  the  additional  regiments  in  winter 
quarters. 

It  has  been  already  determined  to  dispose  of  them 
in  four  bodies,  and  the  positions  generally  have  been 
designated.  These  positions  will,  of  course,  be  ad- 
hered to,  unless  alterations  shall  become  expedient 
from  considerations  relative  to  the  comparative 
prices  of  rations  at  different  places.  It  is  necessary 
speedily  to  understand  whether  any  deviations  will 
result  from  this  source,  which  has  been  heretofore  a 
subject  of  correspondence  between  us. 


io6  Alexander  Hamilton 

As  to  mode,  I  incline  to  that  of  huts.  Every  thing 
in  our  military  establishment  is  too  unsettled  to 
justify  the  expense  of  permanent  barracks,  and  the 
hiring  of  quarters  in  towns  will  be  adverse  to  the 
health  and  discipline  of  the  troops,  and  may  lead  to 
disorders,  unfriendly  to  harmony  between  the  citi- 
zens and  the  soldiery. 

The  experience  of  the  last  war  has  proved  that 
troops  cannot  be  more  comfortable  in  any  way  than 
in  huts;  and  these  they  can  build  themselves.  Per- 
haps as  these  in  question  are  quite  raw,  it  may  be 
expedient  where  they  do  not  happen  to  have  car- 
penters among  themselves,  to  indulge  each  regiment 
with  the  aid  of  a  few  to  be  procured  on  hire,  who  may 
direct  the  mode  of  construction,  and  lend  a  helping 
hand  to  the  huts  of  the  officers.  The  ground  will  be 
to  be  hired.  The  material  for  building  must  be 
found  upon  each  spot.  If  you  approve,  and  as  soon 
as  I  shall  receive  from  you  the  information  which  is 
to  guide  as  to  prices  of  rations,  I  will  give  directions 
to  the  respective  contractors  to  procure  the  ground, 
with  the  co-operation,  where  it  can  be  conveniently 
had,  of  the  agent  for  the  War  Department,  and  of 
the  commandant  of  a  regiment  nearest  to  the  in- 
tended site. 

Any  suggestions  which  you  shall  think  fit  to  make 
with  regard  to  the  detail,  will  receive  careful  atten- 
tion. 

Applications  have  been  made  to  me  to  authorize 
the.  providing  of  a  wagon  and  four  horses  for  the  use 
of  each  regiment.  It  is  suggested  that  for  the  trans- 
portation of  fuel  and  straw,  and  for  a  variety  of  cur- 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  107 

rent  services,  many  difficulties  attend  the  continual 
dependence  on  the  contractor,  which  would  be  ob- 
viated by  a  wagon  attached  to  the  regiment.  I  am 
of  opinion  that  the  measure  is  right,  and  would  di- 
rect it  to  be  put  in  execution,  but  that  it  is  my  rule 
to  enter  into  no  new  arrangement  involving  ex- 
pense without  previous  recourse  to  you,  where  there 
is  no  pressure  of  circumstances  to  require  immediate 
decision. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  August  19,  1799. 

DEAR  SIR: 

I  return  you  the  papers  of  Mr.  Williams,  which 
you  sent  me,  at  his  desire,  for  perusal.  The  ex- 
planation and  your  final  opinion  of  the  affair  have 
given  me  pleasure,  as  I  should  be  sorry  that  any 
circumstances  of  improper  conduct  should  have 
stood  in  the  way  of  the  employment  of  Mr.  Williams. 

I  regret  extremely  that  obstacles  should  exist  to 
the  requiring  of  the  resignation  of  Mr.  -  — .  You 
are  apprised  of  the  good  opinion  I  entertain  of  the 
probity  of  this  gentleman,  and  of  his  talents  for 
business  within  a  sphere  of  action  which  will  admit 
of  an  immediate  personal  attention  to  every  thing 
which  is  to  be  done.  But  you  are  no  less  apprised 
of  my  perfect  conviction  of  his  incompetency,  at  his 
present  time  of  life,  to  exercise  an  office  which  em- 
braces extensive  and  complicated  objects;  in  which 
system  and  arrangement  and  various  combinations 
are  necessary.  It  is  a  satire  upon  our  government 
that  he  cannot  for  whatever  cause  be  removed.  The 


io8  Alexander  Hamilton 

number  of  powerful  connections  which  he  has,  is,  I 
trust,  not  the  obstacle.  If  it  has  any  weight,  I  think 
it  may  be  relied  upon  that  the  most  influential  of 
them  would,  from  conviction,  acquiesce  in  the  pro- 
priety of  the  measure.  But  if  he  must  remain,  cer- 
tainly there  ought  to  be  no  ceremony  about  giving 
him  good  assistance  whether  of  his  own  choice  or 
not.  In  this  it  is  most  regular  that  the  two  depart- 
ments concur.  But  if  they  cannot,  as  Secretary  at 
War  I  should  not  hesitate  to  insist,  that  he  should 
employ  such  organs  as  I  deemed  requisite  for  exe- 
cuting well  the  business  of  my  department. 

You  observe,  that  no  present  inconvenience  at- 
tends the  suspension  of  such  a  measure.  Believe 
me  the  service  everywhere  is  suffering  for  the  want 
of  proper  organization.  It  is  one  thing  for  business 
to  drag  on, — another  for  it  to  go  on  well.  The  busi- 
ness of  supply  in  all  its  branches  (except  as  to  pro- 
visions), proceeds  heavily,  and  without  oraer  or 
punctuality, — in  a  manner  equally  ill  adapted  to 
economy  on  a  large  scale,  as  to  efficiency  and  the  con- 
tentment of  the  army.  It  is  painful  to  observe  how 
disjointed  and  piecemeal  a  business  it  is.  Among 
other  evils  is  this,  that  the  head  of  the  War  Depart- 
ment and  the  chief  of  the  several  divisions  of  the 
army  exhaust  their  time  in  details,  which  beyond  a 
general  superintendence  are  foregin  to  them,  and 
plans  for  giving  perfection  to  our  military  system 
are  unavoidably  neglected. 

Let  me  repeat,  my  dear  friend,  my  earnest  advice, 
that  you  proceed  to  organize  without  delay  the  sev- 
eral branches  of  the  department  of  supply ;  that  is,  to 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  109 

fix  the  places  and  appoint  the  agents.  You  will 
experience  great  relief  and  many  advantages  from 
it.  The  saving  from  better  management  will  in- 
finitely overpay  the  expense  of  salaries.  The  con- 
tractors who  feel  little  responsibility  execute  very 
carelessly  every  thing  in  which  they  are  merely 
agents.  The  increase  of  numbers  will  make  this  a 
very  important  consideration. 

Supplies  in  general  are  neither  duly  procured  nor 
duly  forwarded,  frequently  not  of  good  quality  nor 
agreeing  in  kind, — and  the  system  of  accountability, 
excellent  in  theory,  I  venture  to  say,  entirely  fails  in 
execution.  The  inevitable  consequence  is  that  there 
must  be  a  great  waste  of  property.  It  is  in  vain  to 
have  good  plans,  if  there  are  not  proper  organs  for 
execution.  Every  new  step  to  be  taken  is  attended 
with  embarrassment  for  want  of  organization. 

It  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  Carrington  was  not 
appointed  quartermaster-general  according  to  the 
new  arrangement,  before  the  last  session  of  the  Sen- 
ate ended,  so  that  every  thing  in  that  branch  of 
service  might  be  now  in  complete  train. 

If  this  appointment  is  determined  upon,  will  it  not 
be  well  to  notify  the  intention  to  him,  and  to  prevail 
upon  him  to  come  to  the  seat  of  government,  to  the 
end  that  you  may  concert  with  him  the  proper 
arrangement.  Till  the  Commander-in-Chief  take  the 
field,  his  residence  would  very  naturally  be  at  or  near 
the  seat  of  government,  and  you  would  find  his  as- 
sistance in  every  view  very  valuable. 

I  have  heretofore  requested  Mr.  Hodgdon  to  send 
me  from  time  to  time  a  return  of  the  supplies  which 


no  Alexander  Hamilton 

he  forwards.  This  may  save  you  the  trouble  of  read- 
ing applications  for  things  which  have  been  done. 
The  request  has  not  been  complied  with.  I  do  not 
mention  this  by  way  of  complaint,  but  for  informa- 
tion, to  induce  you  to  give  him  a  specific  direction. 
Once  a  week  such  a  return  ought  to  be  made  to  you, 
and  a  duplicate  might  be  sent  to  me. 


HAMILTON   TO    HARRISON  * 

NEW  YORK,  August  24,  1799. 

SIR: — Attempts  are  making  in  different  parts  of 
the  country  to  procure  the  enlargement  of  soldiers 
on  writs  of  habeas  corpus  issued  by  and  returnable 
before  State  judges.  As  this  practice  will  probably 
involve  serious  consequences,  it  becomes  necessary 
for  me  to  avail  myself  of  the  information  of  those 
officers  of  the  United  States  who  are  particularly 
charged  with  the  consideration  of  legal  questions.  I 
wish,  therefore,  for  your  deliberate  opinion,  distin- 
guishing between  courts  and  individual  judges,  on 
the  legality  of  this  practice,  and  especially  on  the 
effect  of  a  return  to  the  writ,  that  the  person  de- 
manded had  been  duly  enlisted  by  an  officer  of  the 
United  States,  in  conformity  with  the  laws  and  with 
his  instructions.  You  will  also  be  pleased  to  con- 
sider whether  upon  such  a  return  it  is  necessary  to 
produce  the  person  who  is  the  object  of  the  habeas 
corpus.  The  charge  for  this  opinion  you  will  make 
against  the  Department  of  War. 

1  Probably  Col.  R.  H  Harrison,  who  served  on  Washington's  stafi 
with  Hamilton,  and  was  afterwards  a  lawyer. 


Circular  1 1 1 

HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

August  25,  1799. 

I  must  again  press  for  the  settlement  of  a  rule  of 
promotion.  It  is  essential  to  fix  principles  and  the 
conditions  and  expectations  of  officers  as  fast  as  pos- 
sible. The  army  never  will  be  organized  and  in 
order  unless  points  are  successively  established  as 
they  occur  to  consideration,  and,  when  established, 
strictly  adhered  to.  The  total  defect  of  organiza- 
tion in  the  Western  army  (the  extent  of  which  I  did 
not  know  till  very  lately)  has  increased  my  solicitude 
for  another  course  of  things,  lest  we  get  everywhere 
into  inextricable  chaos.  I  send  you  an  arrangement 
of  the  seventh  regiment,  in  conformity  with  my  idea, 
which  I  hope  may  be  adopted. 


CIRCULAR 

NEW  YORK,  August  27,  1799. 

SIR: 

In  military  service  it  is  essential  that  each  in- 
dividual should  move  within  his  proper  sphere,  ac- 
cording to  a  just  gradation  and  the  relations  which 
subsist  between  him  and  others.  It  is  a  consequence 
of  this  principle  that  a  regular  chain  of  communica- 
tion should  be  preserved,  and  that,  in  all  matters  relat- 
ing to  service,  each  person  should  address  himself  for 
information  or  direction  to  his  immediate  superior 
officer,  and  should  not  step  beyond  him  to  a  higher 
authority.  This  observation  of  course  excepts  the 
case  where  an  individual,  having  received  an  injury 


ii2  Alexander  Hamilton 

from  his  immediate  superior,  is  disposed  to  seek  re- 
dress from  the  superior  of  both;  but  in  other  cases 
the  principle  ought  to  be  rigidly  observed. 

It  is  not  so  in  practice.  I  have  received  com- 
munications from  captains  of  companies,  which  in 
propriety  ought  to  have  been  addressed  to  com- 
mandants of  their  regiments  or  of  the  districts  within 
which  they  are  stationed;  and  I  know  that  com- 
munications have  in  some  instances  been  made  by 
particular  officers  to  the  Secretary  of  War,  which 
ought  to  have  been  addressed  to  me.  These  things 
are  not  regular,  and  must  be  avoided.  The  good  of 
the  service  and  the  dignity  of  every  officer,  from  the 
highest  to  the  lowest,  require  that  they  should  not 
prevail.  The  officers  and  persons  attached  to  the 
army,  who  are  charged  with  the  expenditure  of 
money  and  with  the  providing  or  issuing  of  supplies, 
will  properly  correspond  with  the  Department  of 
War  on  those  subjects ;  but  every  other  officer  ought 
to  address  himself  to  his  immediate  chief,  and  the 
chiefs  of  corps  or  distinct  commands  must  make 
their  communications  to  me,  except  in  the  cases  in 
which  particular  regulations  direct  otherwise. 

To  apply  the  rule.  The  officers  must  not  go  be- 
yond you  with  their  verbal  or  written  communica- 
tions; you  must  address  yours  to  me,  except— 

i  st.  Returns  and  applications  respecting  ord- 
nance, arms,  accoutrements,  and  other  military 
stores,  clothing,  articles  of  quartermaster's  supply, 
hospital  stores,  including  medicines,  which  for  the 
present  must  be  addressed  to  Ebenezer  Stevens, 
Esquire,  agent  for  the  War  Department  in  New  York 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  113 

(the  proper  officers  in  respect  to  these  objects  not 
being  yet  appointed). 

2d.  Monthly  and  other  returns  respecting  the 
numbers  and  state  of  corps  and  detachments,  in- 
cluding inspection  and  recruiting  returns,  which  must 
be  addressed  to  Brigadier-General  North,  Adjutant- 
General. 

3d.  Muster-  and  pay-rolls  to  Caleb  Swan,  Esquire, 
Paymaster-General,  at  the  seat  of  government. 

These  last  had  best  be  forwarded  by  the  respective 
paymasters  of  regiments  and  detachments,  where 
any  exist. 

The  Paymaster-General  has  been  advised  to  con- 
fine his  communications  to  paymasters,  and  to  such 
others  as  have  received  public  money,  for  which  they 
are  accountable  directly  to  the  War  Department. 

It  is  expected  that  other  officers  will  shortly  be 
appointed  and  annexed  to  head-quarters,  to  whom 
the  objects  under  the  first  and  third  heads  will  prop- 
erly belong. 

This,  when  it  takes  place,  will  be  announced  in 
general  orders. 

You  will  take  care  to  make  these  instructions 
known  within  the  sphere  of  your  command. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  September  2,  1799. 

SIR: — Your  letter  of  the  2Qth  instant  is  received. 
I  shall  conform  to  what  I  understand  to  be  the  spirit 
of  the  practice  of  which  it  gives  examples.  It  is 

VOL.  VI. — 8.    I 


H4  Alexander  Hamilton 

right  not  to  make  an  extra  allowance  to  officers  for 
performing  a  military  duty  at  a  place  where  they  are 
stationed,  or  where  they  actually  are  resident,  or  where 
there  is  a  military  post,  at  which  they  can  be  accom- 
modated as  usual,  except  for  travelling  from  another 
place  to  that  post.  But  I  submit  that  this  is  not 
applicable  to  a  person,  not  a  member  of  the  army, 
who  may  be  specially  designated  to  such  a  duty. 
Nor  do  I  think  that  it  consists  with  the  dignity  or 
policy  of  the  government  to  desire  the  service  of 
such  a  person  gratis.  A  person  not  of  the  army  act- 
ing as  judge-advocate,  ought,  in  my  opinion,  to  be 
compensated.  Trials  in  some  instances  exhaust  too 
large  a  portion  of  time  to  be  employed  for  a  public 
purpose,  without  an  equivalent.  It  will  be  agree- 
able to  me,  in  the  three  instances  in  which  I  have 
been  the  agent,  to  announce  that  an  allowance  is 
to  be  received.  I  have  thought  of  three  dollars  per 
day.  The  persons  are,  Mr.  Hare,  in  the  trial  of 
Captain  Vance;  Mr.  Morton,  in  the  trial  of  Captain 
Frey ;  and  Doctor  Osborne  and  Mr.  Malcom,  in  those 
of  Major  Hoops  and  Captain  Cochran.  The  state  of 
the  military  hereafter  will  obviate  the  necessity  of 
incurring  a  similar  expense. 

In  the  case  of  the  court-martial  of  which  Major 
Wilcocks  was  president,  I  applied  the  regulations  of 
December,  1798,  though  from  the  wording  of  them, 
I  thought  there  might  be  some  doubt  of  their 
applicability,  but  your  construction  will  solve  the 
doubt.  It  is  the  convenient  one. 

I  shall  announce  to  the  several  commandants,  that 
law  and  usage  consider  the  two  dollars  per  head  as 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  115 

the  equivalent  for  the  extra  expenses  of  recruiting 
officers,  and  that  no  further  allowance  can  be  made. 

Nothing  is  more  just  than  your  observation,  "  that 
officers,  instead  of  encouraging  the  complaints  of 
their  men  on  the  occasions  to  which  you  refer,  ought 
to  endeavor  to  satisfy  them  that  the  article  com- 
plained of,  for  some  good  reason,  could  not  be  other- 
wise." I  have  inculcated  this  doctrine  in  different 
instances,  and  shall  make  it  a  subject  of  a  circular- 
instruction. 

You  add  that  nothing  is  more  common  among 
officers,  than  complaints  about  everything  furnished 
by  the  public.  I  am  inclined  to  believe  with  you, 
that  the  spirit  of  complaining  is  apt  to  be  carried  to 
an  excess.  But  it  is  important,  when  it  is  observed 
to  prevail,  to  inquire  with  candor  and  calmness 
whether  it  has  not  been  produced  in  whole  or  in  part 
from  real  causes  of  complaint,  If  it  has,  it  is  then 
essential  that  any  defects  in  the  public  plan  which 
may  have  occasioned  them,  should  be  corrected. 

This  is  essential  for  two  reasons:  one,  that  justice, 
the  success  of  the  service,  and  the  public  good  re- 
quire that  right  should  be  done  to  the  troops;  the 
other,  that  the  doing  of  it  will  most  certainly  and 
effectually  remedy  the  evil. 

In  a  new  army  especially,  the  force  of  discipline 
can  hardly  be  expected  to  stifle  complaint  if  material 
ground  for  it  truly  exist.  To  be  frank  on  this  point 
is  a  duty.  Viewing  the  matter  from  a  variety  of 
positions  in  which  I  have  stood,  it  is  an  opinion  of 
some  standing  with  me,  that  the  supply  of  the  army, 
except  in  the  article  of  provisions,  has  been  most 


n6  Alexander  Hamilton 

commonly  so  defective  as  to  render  a  considerable 
degree  of  discontent  a  natural  consequence.  In 
some  instances  the  quality  of  articles,  in  others  their 
form  or  workmanship,  have  been  faulty;  in  others 
they  have  been  supplied  too  irregularly  and  too 
much  by  retail. 

These  things,  amidst  a  revolution,  will  be  ac- 
quiesced in.  In  the  first  essays  of  a  new  govern- 
ment, this  will  be  tolerated;  but  in  a  more  mature 
state  of  its  affairs,  as  that  of  ours  at  present,  a  gov- 
ernment should  not  stand  in  need  of  indulgence  from 
its  armies.  In  strict  justice  to  them,  it  should  lay 
the  foundation  of  an  absolute  claim  to  their  strict 
obedience  and  rigid  compliance  with  every  duty. 

In  recurring  to  ideas  of  this  sort,  I  only  embrace 
an  occasion  which  seems  to  call  for  the  expression  of 
them.  I  well  know  your  disposition  to  ameliorate 
our  plan.  I  count  upon  the  success  of  your  efforts, 
but  till  the  amelioration  has  been  exemplified,  you 
are  not  to  wonder  if  murmurs  continue,  and  it  will 
not  be  my  fault  if  they  are  not  as  moderate  as 
possible. 


CIRCULAR 

NEW  YORK,  September  7,  1799. 

SIR: — It  has  been  suggested  to  me  that  particular 
officers,  in  some  instances,  have  incautiously  in- 
dulged remarks  in  the  presence  of  their  men,  re- 
specting the  bad  qualities  of  articles  furnished,  which 
were  of  a  nature  to  foster  discontent  in  the  minds 
of  the  soldiery.  Instances  of  this  sort,  I  am  per- 


Hamilton  to  Washington  117 

suaded,  must  have  been  very  rare,  as  the  impro- 
priety of  the  thing  is  too  glaring  to  escape  an  officer 
of  the  least  reflection ;  and  I  am  convinced  it  is  only 
necessary  to  mention  the  matter  to  you,  to  engage 
your  endeavors  to  prevent  a  similar  imprudence.  If 
any  articles  of  supply  are  exceptionable,  the  proper 
course  is  to  represent  it  to  me,  in  order  that  the 
remedy,  if  in  my  power,  may  be  applied;  if  not, 
that  it  may  be  sought  through  the  Secretary  at 
War.  Of  my  constant  exertions  to  place  the  army 
on  a  comfortable  and  respectable  footing,  no  doubt 
can  be  entertained. 

Desultory  observations  have  from  time  to  time 
been  made  to  me,  respecting  particular  articles.  I 
am  desirous  of  having  a  special  and  very  accurate 
report  from  the  commandant  of  each  regiment,  of 
the  quantity  and  quality  of  all  the  articles  which 
have  been  received  for  its  use,  viz.,  arms,  accoutre- 
ments, clothing,  tents,  and  camp  utensils.  You  will 
as  soon  as  possible  transmit  it  to  me.  Any  sug- 
gestions of  improvements  in  any  of  the  articles 
which  are  supplied  will  be  acceptable. 


HAMILTON   TO   WASHINGTON 

(Private.) 

NEW  YORK,  September  9,  1799. 

DEAR  SIR: 

Two  days  since  I  received  from  General  Wilkinson 
a  report  of  which  I  now  send  you  the  original.  You 
will  find  it  intelligent  and  interesting.  Perhaps  on 


n8  Alexander  Hamilton 

the  score  of  intrinsic  propriety,  it  deserves  to  be 
adopted  to  a  larger  extent  than  some  collateral  and 
extraneous  considerations  may  permit. 

I  had  previously  thought  of  the  subject,  but  had 
purposely  limited  myself  to  a  few  very  general  ideas, 
that  I  might  examine  with  the  less  prepossession  the 
plan  of  an  officer  who,  possessing  talents  to  judge, 
has  for  years  had  his  mind  occupied  with  the  scene 
to  which  he  refers.  Since  the  receipt  of  his  plan,  I 
have  assiduously  contemplated  it  with  the  aid  of 
a  full  personal  explanation;  and  my  judgment  has 
formed  a  result,  though  not  definitive,  but  liable  to 
revision.  I  adopt  several  of  the  leading  ideas  of  the 
General,  but  I  vary  in  some  particulars:  as  well 
because  I  think  the  change  might  be  too  strong 
with  reference  to  its  influence  on  public  opinion, 
and  the  feelings  of  the  parts  of  the  country  immedi- 
atly  concerned,  as  because  it  seems  to  me  that 
motives  of  real  weight  dictate  a  modification  of  his 
plan. 

Premising  that  one  complete  regiment  of  infantry 
should  be  left  for  Tennessee  and  the  frontiers  of 
Georgia,  I  would  propose  the  following  disposition 
of  the  remaining  three  of  the  old  regiments,  and  for 
the  battalion  of  artillerists  and  the  two  troops  of 
dragoons  allowed  for  the  Western  army.  It  is 
taken  for  granted  that  the  plan  must  contemplate 
only  the  four  old  regiments  of  infantry  (with  those 
portions  of  artillerists  and  dragoons),  inasmuch  as 
these  are  the  only  infantry  regarded  by  our  system 
as  permanent.  The  twelve  additional  regiments  will 
dissolve,  of  course,  as  to  the  non-commissioned 


Hamilton  to  Washington  119 

officers  and  privates,  by  the  simple  fact  of  the  settle- 
ment of  our  dispute  with  France. 

Let  these  troops  be  disposed  of  as  follows,  viz. : 

A  Battalion  of  Infantry  and  a  Company  and  a  Half  of 
Artillery 

Niagara. — Two  companies  of  infantry  and  a  half  com- 
pany of  artillery. 

Detroit. — Three  companies  of  infantry  and  one  com- 
pany of  artillery,  to  furnish  a  detachment  for 

Mickilimackinac. — A  subaltern,  two  sergeants,  and 
twenty-four  rank  and  file  infantry,  and  a  sergeant  and 
twelve  artillerists. 

A  Battalion  of  Infantry  and  a  Company  of  Artillery 

Fort  Fayette  and  Pittsburgh. — One  company  of  infantry 
and  a  quarter  of  a  company  of  artillery. 

Fort  Wayne. — One  company  of  infantry  and  a  quarter 
of  a  company  of  artillery. 

Fort  Massac. — Three  companies  of  infantry  and  half  a 
company  of  artillery,  to  furnish  detachments  for 

Fort  Knox. — A  sergeant  and  eight  rank  and  file. 

Fort  Pickering,  Chickasaw  Bluffs. — A  subaltern,  two 
sergeants,  and  twenty-four  rank  and  file. 

A  Battalion  of  Infantry  and  a  Company  of  Artillery 

Fort  Adams,  Loftus  Heights. — A  battalion  of  infantry 
and  a  company  of  artillery,  to  furnish  for 

Fort  Stoddard,  Junction  of  Alabama  and  Tombigbee 
rivers,  Mobile. — Not  exceeding  a  company  of  infantry 
and  a  quarter  of  a  company  of  artillery. 

There  will  then  remain  a  regiment  and  a  battalion  of 


120  Alexander  Hamilton 

infantry,  half  a  company  of  artillery,  and  two  troops  of 
dragoons.     Let  these  be  stationed  at  some  convenient 
point  at  or  near  the  rapids  of  the  Ohio,  to  form  an  army  of 
observation,  and  act  as  exigencies  may  require. 
The  other  posts  now  occupied  to  be  relinquished. 

A  few  remarks  will  illustrate  the  reasons  of  this 
plan. 

As  a  general  principle  it  is  desirable  to  concentrate 
the  force  as  much  as  possible.  This  tends  to  effi- 
ciency for  action,  to  the  preservation  of  order  and 
discipline,  and  to  the  promoting  of  economy.  It  is 
conceived  that  the  occupying  a  small  number  of 
critical  points  with  a  reserve  of  force  to  support  an 
attack,  will  be  more  impressive  on  the  Indians  than 
the  dissipation  of  the  whole  force  among  a  great 
number  of  small  posts.  This  reserve  ought  to  be  so 
placed  as  to  look  to  all  the  principal  objects,  and  it 
may,  as  an  incidental  one,  with  propriety,  look  to 
that  of  preventing  or  suppressing  insurrections.  The 
concentration  of  force,  with  a  proper  disposition, 
will  render  the  maintenance  of  it  far  less  expensive 
than  if  subdivided  into  small  and  scattered  portions. 

These  more  particular  considerations  co-operate. 

As  to  Niagara  and  Detroit. — The  effectual  posses- 
sion of  the  straits  which  connect  Lake  Erie  on  the 
one  side  with  the  Ontario,  on  the  other  with  the 
Huron,  appears  to  me  very  material  as  a  security 
against  British  attack,  and  as  a  means  of  controlling 
the  northern  and  northwestern  Indians,  by  enabling 
us  to  obstruct  communication.  These  points  are 
mentioned  because  they  now  exist  as  posts ;  but  the 
straits  ought  to  be  reviewed  by  a  skilful  engineer, 


Hamilton  to  Washington  121 

and  such  points  selected  as  will  be  most  defensible, 
and  will  best  command  the  straits.  The  force  pro- 
posed for  these  stations  at  present  is  inadequate  in  a 
prospective  view;  but  as  there  is  a  probability  of  a 
continuance  of  good  understanding  with  Great  Brit- 
ain for  some  time,  it  is  conceived  that  it  may  now 
suffice  for  the  sake  of  obtaining  a  respectable  corps 
de  reserve,  to  be  augmented  as  our  military  means 
may  increase. 

When  the  proper  points  shall  have  been  defini- 
tively selected,  it  would  be  my  plan  to  have  at  each 
station  a  regular  fortification,  requiring  a  garrison  of 
from  500  to  1,000  men,  as  the  nature  of  the  ground 
to  be  occupied  may  indicate,  with  a  citadel  in 
each,  defensive  by  from  two  to  three  hundred  men. 
These,  in  times  of  complete  harmony  with  Great 
Britain,  may  suffice;  but,  on  the  appearance  of  ap- 
proaching differences,  to  be  increased  to  the  com- 
plement. The  posts  at  all  times  to  be  supplied  for 
a  siege.  The  progress  of  settlement  will  speedily 
furnish  the  means  of  prompt  reinforcement. 

As  to  Michilimackinac. — The  only  motive  for  re- 
taining this  post  is  to  preserve  the  occupancy  of  an 
old  communication  in  some  sort  calculated  to  influ- 
ence the  Indians.  As  to  trade,  it  is  now  only  useful 
to  the  British,  and  likely  to  continue  so  for  some 
years,  except  in  so  far  as  they  find  it  their  interest  to 
turn  their  trade  into  our  channels.  There  are  here 
a  few  white  families,  supposed  to  be  able  to  furnish 
about  sixty  arm-bearing  men,  who  are  said  to  be 
well  disposed  to  our  government,  and  who  certainly, 
in  a  controversy  merely  with  the  Indians,  would 


122  Alexander  Hamilton 

co-operate  with  the  garrison.  A  small  one  is  deemed 
sufficient  for  the  present  purpose  of  the  post.  For 
this  an  additional  reason  is,  that  the  maintenance 
of  troops  there  is  excessively  costly.  Any  greater 
force  which,  with  our  present  total,  could  be  thought 
of  for  that  station,  must  be  considered  as  a  corps 
perdu  in  case  of  war  with  Britain,  as  it  would  be  en- 
tirely out  of  the  reach  of  succor.  Consequently,  the 
smaller  the  force  there,  if  sufficient  for  the  other  ob- 
jects, the  better.  It  is  to  be  observed  as  to  this 
place,  that  the  Indians  whose  situations  are  relative 
to  it,  are  in  no  view,  formidable.  The  insular  situa- 
tion is  a  further  security. 

As  to  Fort  Fayette. — It  may  be  doubtful  whether 
any  force  here  is  really  essential,  and  whether,  as 
being  a  mere  depot,  it  may  not  be  left,  as  at  other 
places,  to  the  safeguard  of  the  inhabitants;  but, 
considering  that  it  is  a  portal  to  the  Western  country, 
and  that  disaffection  to  the  government  has  been 
shown  by  the  inhabitants  of  the  neighboring  country, 
the  force  proposed  is  deemed  expedient  as  a  guard 
and  as  a  rallying-point  to  the  well-affected. 

As  to  Fort  Wayne. — The  critical  situation  of  this 
place  with  regard  to  a  number  of  different  waters, 
and  the  influence  of  its  immediate  aspect  upon  the 
most  warlike  of  the  Indians  in  that  quarter,  make  it, 
in  my  view,  a  post  to  be  maintained,  contrary  to  the 
idea  of  General  Wilkinson. 

As  to  Fort  Massac. — This  being  another  portal, 
and  the  great  outlet  for  the  commodities  of  the 
Northwestern  Territory,  Kentucky,  etc.,  it  appears 
to  me  that,  for  obvious  reasons,  it  ought  to  be  se- 


Hamilton  to  Washington  123 

cured  by  a  strong  regular  fortification  and  a  re- 
spectable garrison. 

As  to  Fort  Knooo. — There  has  been  for  some  time 
no  more  force  than  is  now  proposed,  which  is  only 
necessary  as  a  guard.  The  settlement  is  of  itself 
an  overmatch  for  the  feeble  Indians  in  the  vicinity; 
who,  besides,  will  be  within  the  speedy  stroke  of  the 
main  body. 

As  to  Fort  Pickering. — The  considerations  men- 
tioned by  General  Wilkinson  are  referred. 

As  to  Fort  Adams. — I  make  the  like  reference. 
This  is  an  essential  point.  It  is  on  a  height  which 
completely  commands  the  river  and  the  surrounding 
country,  and,  according  to  General  Wilkinson,  can 
easily  be  put  in  a  state  to  defy  every  thing  but  famine 
with  a  garrison  of  about  two  hundred  men.  The 
force  allowed  will  always  afford  this  garrison. 

As  to  Fort  Stoddard. — This  is  now  occupied  with  a 
company.  It  is  critical  as  to  an  important  river. 
The  Indians  are  in  the  habit  of  seeing  it  occupied  by 
the  Spaniards.  It  commands  an  important  com- 
munication with  the  powerful  nations  of  savages  in 
the  neighborhood,  and  it  is  calculated  to  have  an 
influence  upon  them.  It  is  in  the  bosom  of  a  white 
settlement.  These  are  reasons  for  keeping  it  as 
a  post.  But  an  objection  to  it  is,  that  at  present 
it  can  with  difficulty  be  supplied  otherwise  than 
through  the  Spanish  territory.  To  make  it  proper 
as  a  permanent  one,  an  easy  communication  through 
our  own  territory  must  be  established.  General 
Wilkinson  says  this  is  practicable. 

I  take  no  notice  of  the  other  posts  suggested  by 


124  Alexander  Hamilton 

General  Wilkinson  to  be  established  along  our 
Southern  line;  because,  in  his  own  view  they  are 
eventual.  The  Indians  must  be  first  reconciled 
there.  And  leaving  a  regiment  for  Georgia  and 
Tennessee  there  is  no  present  force  for  the  purpose. 
It  is  also  liable  to  the  objection  of  an  extreme  fritter- 
ing of  our  force. 

I  do  not  concur  with  General  Wilkinson  in  the  dis- 
position of  the  corps  de  reserve.  He  would  have  it 
in  the  neighborhood  of  Fort  Adams  (say  Natchez). 
I  propose  for  it  the  vicinity  of  the  rapids  of  the  Ohio. 

On  General  Wilkinson's  plan  its  great  utility 
would  be  narrowed  to  a  point,  the  meeting  in  the 
first  instance  an  invasion  from  below,  and  in  case  of 
rupture  of  a  prompt  attack  upon  New  Orleans. 

But  the  strength  of  the  reserve  alone  could  not  be 
relied  upon  as  adequate  to  either  object.  If  a  su- 
perior force  from  below  should  attack,  the  principal 
body  of  our  regular  force  might  in  the  outset  be 
defeated,  dissipated,  and  lost.  Thus  depriving  the 
militia  of  a  necessary  support  might  lead  to  greater 
misfortunes.  If  an  attack  is  to  be  made,  as  little  as 
possible  should  be  left  to  chance,  and  consequently  the 
i  force  ought  to  be  greater  than  the  plan  would  admit. 

The  stationing  of  a  large  body  below  would  give 
jealousy  to  the  Spaniards,  and  lead  to  the  measure 
of  augmenting  their  regular  force  by  drawing  rein- 
forcements from  some  other  quarter. 

Stationed  above,  no  jealousy  will  be  excited.  For 
attack  or  defence  the  regular  force  can  descend  with 
the  addition  of  the  force  of  the  country.  Concerted 
and  combined  operations  may  insure  efficiency. 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  125 

In  this  situation  the  force  will  look  to  various 
points:  to  the  northern  Indians,  to  the  disaffected 
of  the  neighboring  country,  etc.,  etc.  Enough  is 
said.  Your  reflection  will  supply  the  rest. 

I  send  this  letter  without  a  copy,  that  I  may  not 
lose  a  post,  as  time  and  the  season  urge.  Favor  me 
as  soon  as  possible  with  your  observations  and  direc- 
tions, for  which  I  wait. 

With  the  greatest  respect  and  affection,  etc.,  etc. 

P.  S. — Presque  Isle  is  a  very  healthy  situation,  and 
capable  of  much  defence.  The  neighboring  country 
is  fast  growing  powerful,  so  as  to  take  care  of  itself. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  September  16,  1799. 

SIR: — In  recurring  to  your  letter  of  the  2Qth  of 
August,  I  observe  there  are  points  which,  for  a  clear 
understanding,  require  from  me  some  observations. 

I  shall  make  this  preliminary  remark,  that  in  pre- 
senting them  with  emphasis,  as  I  am  accustomed  to 
do,  I  am  actuated  by  the  sole  and  exclusive  motive 
of  showing  by  particular  instances  that  the  past 
plan  has  been  productive  of  imperfect  results,  and 
that  more  comprehensive  and  adequate  measures 
are  necessary  for  the  future. 

Our  provisions  have  been  made  too  much  on  the 
spur  of  the  occasion,  have  been  too  generally  con- 
fined to  the  absolutely  necessary  for  the  moment,  re- 
jecting the  idea  of  surplus  for  future  casualties  and 
exigencies.  This  defect  in  our  plan  is  not  imputable 


126  Alexander  Hamilton 

to  any  one  individual.  It  may  be  traced  partly  to 
the  immaturity  of  our  institutions  and  affairs,  and 
partly  to  errors  of  opinion  which  embraced  persons 
in  various  situations. 

I  am  sensible  that  important  steps,  both  legisla- 
tive and  administrative,  have  been  taken  toward  a 
more  provident  and  efficacious  system;  but  a  fre- 
quent contemplation  of  the  imperfections  of  the  past 
plan  ought  to  have  the  effect  of  increasing  the  ten- 
dency toward  improvement. 

I  must  at  the  same  time  be  permitted  to  add,  that, 
in  my  opinion,  the  want  of  a  proper  organization  of 
agents  in  the  various  branches  of  the  public  service, 
and  of  a  correct  and  systematic  delineation  of  their 
relative  duties,  has  been  a  material  cause  of  the  im- 
perfect results  which  have  been  experienced ;  that  it 
continues  to  embarrass  every  operation,  and  that 
while  it  lasts  it  cannot  fail  to  enfeeble  and  disorder 
every  part  of  the  service. 

To  exemplify  the  present  defect  of  organization,  it 
is  sufficient  to  refer  to  the  situation  of  the  quarter- 
master-general's department,  of  the  medical  es- 
tablishment, and  of  that  of  the  pay  office.  The 
paymaster-general,  with  propriety,  is  stationed  at  the 
seat  of  government ;  but  he  has  no  deputy  either  at 
my  head-quarters  or  at  that  of  General  Pinckney. 

I  am  sensible  that  where  the  appointment  of  the 
chief  requires  the  consent  of  the  Senate,  it  must  now 
be  deferred  to  the  future  meeting  of  that  body,  and 
that  the  subordinate  persons  whom  the  law  places 
in  the  choice  of  those  chiefs,  cannot  be  constituted 
without  them;  but  temporary  arrangements  may 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  127 

still  be  made  as  a  substitute ;  and  I  confess  my  anx- 
iety that  this  may  be  done,  either  immediately  by 
you  or  by  your  direction  to  General  Pinckney  and 
myself,  each  to  regulate  the  matter  within  the  sphere 
of  his  command. 

Permit  me  earnestly  to  request  that  this  business 
of  organization  in  all  its  branches  may  engage  a 
prompt  and  decisive  attention.  Till  this  shall  have 
been  the  case,  no  commanding  officer  can  perform 
well  his  peculiar  duties;  as  his  time  and  attention 
might  be  engrossed  in  details,  which  are  foreign 
to  his  station.  And  the  consequence  must  be  in- 
efficiency and  disorder. 

I  proceed  to  some  particulars  of  your  letter. 

You  observe  that  you  consider  it  as  the  duty  of 
the  commanding  general  not  only  to  make  returns 
of  all  articles,  among  these  clothing  wanted  for  his 
troops,  but  to  make  them  in  such  season  as  to 
allow  of  making  up  and  transporting  them  to  their 
destinations. 

If  this  idea  shall  be  adhered  to,  I  shall  be  very 
ready  to  perform  my  part ;  but  I  should  wish  a  more 
precise  definition  of  the  objects.  What  are  the 
articles  to  be  embraced?  There  are  some  objects, 
as  artillery,  muskets,  etc.,  of  which  it  is  always  to  be 
presumed  there  are  sufficient  quantities  constantly 
ready  in  the  public  arsenals  and  magazines.  What 
time  or  times  will  be  deemed  proper  for  the  transmis- 
sion of  the  returns?  Are  the  destinations  in  detail 
to  be  pointed  out  or  not  ? 

But  I  beg  leave  to  recommend  the  point  to  a  se- 
rious reconsideration;  and  I  will  take  the  liberty  to 


128  Alexander  Hamilton 

offer  some  reflections  in  relation  to  it,  which  seem 
to  me  to  deserve  attention. 

The  total  force  which  is  to  compose  the  military 
establishment  is  regulated  by  law.  That  force,  as 
prescribed  by  law,  is  itself  the  standard  of  all  ordi- 
nary supplies  to  be  provided,  which  ought  always 
rather  to  exceed  than  fall  short  of  the  complement. 
The  Secretary  at  War  consequently  possesses  ipso 
facto  the  rule  which  is  to  govern  as  to  providing  all 
fixed  and  stated  supplies. 

If  this  force  is  to  be  divided  into  different  armies, 
still  the  aggregate  of  supply  must  be  the  same.  Be- 
sides, that  distribution  will  be  arranged  by  the 
Secretary  at  War  in  concert  with  the  Commander- 
in-Chief .  If  left  to  the  discretion  of  the  latter,  he 
only  is  competent  to  furnish  the  criterion. 

It  follows,  that  the  principal  articles  of  supply,  all 
those  which  are  not  dependent  on  the  particular 
nature  of  military  movements,  will  always  depend 
on  the  establishment,  and  will  not  be  to  be  regulated 
by  the  returns  from  particular  generals. 

The  temporary  strength  of  corps,  at  one  time  in- 
creased by  the  accession  of  recruits,  at  another 
diminished  by  the  casualties  of  service,  ought  never 
to  be  a  guide  in  providing;  because  such  a  standard 
is  fluctuating  and  uncertain,  and  because  the  supply 
ought  to  be  commensurate  with  the  full  complement 
of  the  establishment. 

The  commanding  general,  who  should  have  to 
present  an  estimate  to  the  head  of  the  War  Depart- 
ment, (and  whose  agency  as  to  the  ordinary  and 
stated  supplies  is  rendered  unnecessary  by  the  cir- 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  129 

cumstance  of  there  being  other  data  previously  in 
the  possession  of  the  department,)  would  be  bound 
to  govern  himself  in  his  estimate  by  the  scale  of  the 
establishment,  and  not  by  the  temporary  state  of 
things. 

Requisitions,  from  time  to  time,  for  the  issuing  of 
supplies,  may  fall  under  a  different  consideration. 
These  would  have  reference  to  the  actual  state  of  the 
forces ;  but  these  do  not  answer  to  the  import  of  the 
terms  you  employ,  which  appear  to  aim  at  some 
annual,  or  other  periodical  estimate  to  govern  the 
providing  as  well  as  the  issuing  of  the  articles. 

Premising  these  things  as  objections  to  the  idea 
you  have  suggested  in  its  full  latitude,  it  remains  to 
examine  what  is  the  proper  course. 

The  head  of  the  War  Department  must  no  doubt 
be  aided  by  agents  who  are  conversant  in  the  various 
branches  of  supply  and  competent  judges  of  what 
may  be  wanted. 

These  agents  ought  to  be  certain  officers,  or  boards 
established  at  the  seat  of  government,  more  per- 
manently fixed  in  their  stations  than  the  precarious 
commander  of  a  particular  army;  such  as  the  pur- 
veyor of  supplies,  a  board  or  master  of  ordnance; 
or,  instead  of  these,  the  inspector  of  artillery,  the 
superintendent  of  military  stores;  which  officers 
ought  to  be  aided  by  information  from  the  chiefs  of 
the  branches  of  supply  connected  with  the  army,  as  in 
our  present  system  the  quartermaster-general,  etc. 

These  latter  officers  being  under  the  direction  of 
the  military  commanders,  would  be  obliged  to  com- 
municate with  them  to  receive  their  instructions, 


VOL.  VII. — 9. 


130  Alexander  Hamilton 

and  to  inform  them  of  what  is  done  or  intended,  so 
that  they  may  be  apprised  of  the  competency  of  the 
provision  made  or  to  be  made,  and  may  be  able  to 
direct  calls,  or  to  represent  to  the  head  of  the  War 
Department  such  further  provisions  as  they  may 
judge  expedient. 

As  to  the  supplies  to  be  from  time  to  time  issued, 
requisitions  ought  to  come  from  the  chiefs  of  the  sev- 
eral branches  of  supply,  acting  with  the  armies,  to 
those  officers  who  at  the  seat  of  government  are  charged 
with  providing  and  furnishing  the  respective  articles. 

As  on  the  one  hand,  the  complement  of  the  estab- 
lishment will  be  the  guide  in  providing,  so  on  the 
other,  the  returns  of  actual  force  to  the  Secretary  at 
War  from  the  commander  of  each  army,  will,  in  the 
first  instance,  be  a  collateral  guide  to  the  officers, 
and  a  check  upon  extravagant  demands,  and  the 
accounts  afterwards  to  be  rendered  will  show  the 
application. 

The  forming  of  the  permanent  arsenals  and  maga- 
zines of  a  country,  which  ought  to  be  always  pre- 
pared to  furnish  the  principal  articles  of  supply,  is 
naturally  a  work  of  administration,  predicated  upon 
an  entire  view  of  the  political  and  military  relations, 
and  the  forces  and  resources  of  the  country.  When 
these  are  thus  formed,  how  few  are  the  objects  to 
which  the  estimate  of  a  particular  general  can  apply  ? 
How  are  the  partial  and  detached  estimates  of  several 
particular  generals  to  reach  the  full  extent  of  the 
supplies  aggregately  necessary?  How  is  each  to 
make  his  estimate  of  what  may  be  requisite,  unless 
each  has  under  his  eye  the  entire  state  of  all  the  na- 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  131 

tional  arsenals  and  magazines,  and  enters  into  a 
minute  examination  of  all  the  issues  which  may  have 
been  made  ?  If  he  is  to  do  all  this  upon  his  own  re- 
sponsibility, what  time  will  he  have  for  his  purely 
military  duties?  Is  it  proper  in  theory  that  each 
general  having  a  separate  command  should  possess 
complete  view  of  the  state  of  all  the  public  arsenals 
and  magazines? 

I  conclude,  that  from  the  nature  of  the  thing,  the 
business  of  procuring  and  of  issuing  supplies  ought, 
in  a  general  view,  to  be  unconnected  with  the  par- 
ticular commander  of  a  particular  army;  that  it  is 
properly  a  business  of  administration,  in  which  the 
head  of  the  War  Department  is  to  be  aided  by  the 
subordinate  organs  of  his  department  stationed  at 
the  seat  of  government,  and  by  the  heads  of  the  sev- 
eral branches  of  supply  who  act  with  the  armies. 

The  agency  of  the  Commander-in-Chief,  and  the 
commanders  of  particular  armies,  where  requisite, 
ought  to  be  collateral  and  auxiliary,  not  direct  and 
primary. 

It  is  true,  that  there  is  a  class  of  supplies  which, 
being  governed  by  the  actual  operations  contem- 
plated— such  as  transportation,  forage,  etc. — must 
be  regulated  by  estimates  and  returns  to  come  from 
the  armies.  But  even  in  these  cases,  the  responsible 
persons  to  make  the  estimates  and  returns,  ought  to 
be  the  chief  or  chiefs  of  the  departments  of  supply 
with  the  armies,  who  ought  previously  to  submit 
their  estimates  and  returns  to  the  military  com- 
manders, in  order  that  they  may  be  transmitted 
with  their  opinions  and  observations 


132  Alexander  Hamilton 

Thus  far  it  is  conceived,  the  agency  of  the  com- 
manding general  may  be  useful  and  proper.  But 
the  scheme  of  it,  as  now  indicated,  supposes  as  a 
preliminary,  the  appointment  of  the  proper  heads  of 
the  several  branches  of  supply. 

Indeed,  this  preliminary  is  essential  to  every  form 
of  agency  in  this  respect,  which  may  be  assigned  to  a 
commanding  general.  It  is  not  presumable  in  prin- 
ciple, and  would  never  be  found  true  in  fact,  that  the 
general  of  an  army  is  so  minutely  acquainted  with 
all  the  details  of  supply  as  to  be  qualified  to  present 
a  correct  view  of  all  the  objects  which  may  be  re- 
quisite, without  the  intervention  of  those  officers 
whose  peculiar  province  it  is  to  manage  the  business 
of  supply. 

As  to  the  subject  of  pay,  it  would  seem  from  your 
manner  of  expression  to  be  your  idea,  that  the  war- 
rant of  a  commanding  general  must  be  founded  on 
certificates  of  the  paymaster-general.  But  I  must 
conclude  that  this  cannot  be  your  meaning;  as  a 
very  natural  and  fair  construction  of  the  laws  will 
for  this  service  substitute  to  him  his  deputy  with 
each  army;  and  as  it  is  essential,  in  practice,  that 
the  interpretation  should  admit  of  this  substitution. 
How  else  are  the  troops  remote  from  the  paymaster- 
general  to  be  paid  at  all?  Consider,  especially,  the 
position  of  the  Western  army. 

When  the  law  of  the  8th  of  May,  1792,  which 
charges  the  duty  on  the  paymaster-general  was 
passed,  there  was  but  one  army — hence  that  act 
designates  him  singly. 

But  the  act  of  the  3d  of  March  last,  contemplating 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  133 

that  there  may  be  several  different  armies,  provides 
that  there  shall  be  a  deputy  paymaster-general  to 
each  of  them,  without  particularly  defining  his 
duties.  It  is  evident  that  he  must  be  intended  to 
perform  duties,  and  important  ones ;  what  are  they  ? 
The  law  being  silent,  they  are  of  course  all  such  as 
the  paymaster-general  is  to  perform  where  he  may 
be;  except  as  to  any  particular  one,  which,  from  the 
nature  of  the  thing,  ought  to  be  confined  to  the  chief. 
On  any  other  principles,  the  deputy  will  be  as  much 
excluded  from  one  duty  as  from  another,  which  was 
before  performed  by  his  chief,  and  the  appointment 
will  become  nugatory. 

I  infer  that  all  moneys  for  the  purpose  of  paying 
the  pay,  subsistence,  and  forage  of  the  troops,  must 
still  be  delivered  in  the  first  instance  by  the  treasurer 
to  the  paymaster-general,  because  this  is  conducive 
to  union  and  to  a  regular  chain  of  accountability; 
but  that  the  paymaster  is  to  deliver  over  to  each 
deputy  in  mass  a  sum  sufficient  to  answer  all  these 
purposes  with  the  army  to  which  he  is  attached,  and 
the  deputy  is  to  disburse  it  in  detail,  and  to  exercise 
all  the  services  preparatory  to  that  disbursement, 
which  by  the  first  law  were  charged  upon  the  pay- 
master-general, including  that  of  certifying  the  sums 
due,  to  the  commmanding-general. 

Principles  of  law,  no  less  than  those  of  con- 
venience, warrant  this  construction,  beyond  the 
possibility  of  doubt,  after  mature  reflection. 

Accordingly,  in  consequence  of  a  representation 
of  difficulty,  on  the  point  of  warrants,  by  the  pay- 
master-general, I  have  advised  him,  as  the  legal  and 


134  Alexander  Hamilton 

proper  remedy,  to  appoint  without  delay  one  deputy 
to  the  troops  under  the  command  of  General  Pinck- 
ney,  another  to  that  under  my  command.  I  con- 
fidently trust  that  you  will  approve,  and,  if  necessary, 
enforce  this  advice;  the  ground  of  it  is  unquestion- 
ably solid. 

The  course  which  you  indicate  in  the  last  para- 
graph but  one  of  your  letter,  appears  to  me  perfectly 
correct  and  convenient. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  September  17,  1799. 

SIR: — Part  of  the  contents  of  your  letter  of  the 
loth  of  July  last,  (which  has  happened  to  escape  a 
definitive  attention,)  being  connected  with  the  sub- 
ject of  the  7th  of  September,  I  shall  reply  to  them 
together. 

Previous  to  the  receipt  of  the  last,  I  had  drafted 
rules  relating  to  extra  expenses,  which  after  careful 
revision  I  send  for  your  determination.  They  con- 
template, it  will  be  seen,  a  discretion,  to  make  excep- 
tions in  special  cases.  The  rule  in  such  matters 
cannot  be  entirely  absolute  without  involving  too 
much  embarrassment.  As  the  establishment  of  a 
general  rule  will  attach  a  particular  responsibility  to 
each  deviation  from  it,  it  will,  in  the  main,  prevent 
unnecessary  deviations.  The  regulations  do  not  in- 
clude the  restrictions  which  may  be  thought  fit  to 
be  laid  on  the  commanding  generals.  These,  it  is 
supposed,  had  better  be  the  subject  of  particular 
communications  by  letter  to  those  officers. 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  135 

The  two  other  points  mentioned  in  your  letter  of 
the  loth  of  July,  shall  now  be  attended  to. 

First,  as  to  compensation  or  allowances  to  serv- 
ants not  soldiers.  It  appears  to  me  a  clear  point, 
that  the  resolution  of  Congress  of  March,  1780,  is  not 
in  force,  and  consequently  cannot  be  an  authority 
for  such  allowances.  There  being  no  other,  it  is  not 
seen  how  any  general  practice  of  the  government 
could  be  now  supported.  With  regard  to  the  ex- 
pediency of  the  practice  on  principle,  I  have  strong 
doubts.  I  fear  that  it  might  lead  to  the  abuse  of 
compensations  for  nominal  servants,  while  soldiers 
would  still  be  the  real  ones.  Pretexts  of  sickness, 
etc.,  in  the  hurry  of  a  campaign,  might  disguise  the 
abuse.  I  question,  too,  whether  in  time  of  peace  it 
would  be  advisable  to  augment  the  public  expense 
by  the  addition  of  persons  of  this  description. 

I  incline  most  to  the  plan  of  the  Great  Frederick, 
which  was  to  let  the  officers,  in  time  of  peace,  be 
served  by  the  ordinary  soldiers;  in  time  of  war  by 
supernumeraries,  specially  enlisted  for  the  purpose, 
and  discriminated  by  a  distinct  uniform  or  livery, 
forbidding  the  soldiers  of  the  ranks  on  any  pretence 
to  be  employed  in  this  capacity.  This  practice  pro- 
cured all  the  advantages  without  the  dangers  of  the 
other  plan. 

The  number  of  servants  which  it  is  conceived 
proper  to  allow  to  the  respective  grades  of  officers, 
are — - 

To  the  commander-in-chief,  or  general  having  a 
separate  command,  three,  without  arms,  to  attend 
him  on  horseback. 


136  Alexander  Hamilton 

To  the  inspector-general,  quartermaster-general, 
each  major-general  not  having  a  separate  com- 
mand, and  to  the  adjutant-general,  two  of  the  like 
description. 

To  a  brigadier-general,  paymaster-general,  deputy 
quartermaster-general,  deputy  inspector-general,  one 
of  the  above  description,  and  one  with  arms. 

To  each  field-officer,  and  every  other  officer  who 
ordinarily  serves  on  horseback,  one  of  the  first- 
mentioned  description. 

To  every  officer  who  usually  serves  on  foot,  one 
with  arms. 

The  servants  required  to  have  arms  in  all  general 
exercises,  marches,  and  movements,  are  to  be  found 
in  the  ranks.  When  annexed  to  officers  detached 
from  corps,  they  must  join  the  guards  connected 
with  such  officers  or  their  baggage.  In  the  cases  in 
which  they  would  be  otherwise  without  arms,  if  they 
are  attached  to  officers  of  dragoons,  they  will  retain 
their  arms. 

The  drawing  of  provisions  for  children  appears  to 
me  inadmissible,  and,  as  far  as  I  know,  unusual. 
They  are,  without  this,  incumbrance  enough,  when 
in  camp  or  quarters,  especially  in  the  camp  of  a 
campaign. 

I  remark,  incidentally,  that  it  is  to  be  wished 
that  a  corps  of  invalids,  and  an  establishment  for 
the  maintenance  and  education  of  the  children  of 
persons  in  the  army  and  navy,  were  provided  for  by 
law.  Policy,  justice,  and  humanity  forbid  the  aban- 
doning to  want  and  misery  men  who  have  spent 
their  best  years  in  the  military  service  of  a  country, 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  137 

or  who,  in  that  service,  have  contracted  infirmities 
which  disqualify  them  to  earn  their  bread  in  other 
modes. 

Employment  might  be  found  for  such  a  corps 
which  would  indemnify  the  public  for  the  mere  main- 
tenance of  its  members  in  clothing,  lodging,  and 
food.  The  United  States  is  perhaps  the  only  country 
in  which  an  institution  of  this  nature  is  not  to  be 
found — a  circumstance,  which,  if  continued,  will  be 
discreditable.  The  establishment  as  to  children  is 
recommended  by  similar  motives,  with  the  addi- 
tional consideration  that  they  may  be  rendered  by 
it  useful  members  of  society,  and  acquisitions  to  the 
army  and  navy  as  musicians,  etc.  I  shall  wait  for 
your  opinion  as  to  the  abolition  of  issues  to  children. 

You  will  observe  what  articles  are  supposed  by 
me  to  be  proper  to  be  furnished  by  the  contractors. 
These  are  the  only  ones  which  I  recollect,  as  of  ordi- 
nary and  stated  supply,  that  will  not  naturally  come 
from  the  superintendent  of  military  stores.  Con- 
tingent or  extra  articles  had  better  be  under  the 
management  of  the  agents.  As  to  the  scale  of  allow- 
ance in  each  case,  this  has  either  been  regulated  by 
your  department,  or  has  already  been  the  subject  of 
some  former  communication  from  me,  except  in  the 
instance  of  forage.  I  forbear  to  offer  any  scale  for 
this  article,  because  I  take  it  for  granted  that  one  is 
already  established  on  the  basis  of  long  experience. 

If  you  are  desirous  of  a  revision  of  it  by  me,  I 
shall  be  ready  to  obey  your  orders  for  the  purpose.1 

1  One  point  occurs  in  connection  with  the  general  subject  of  this 
letter.  It  appears  to  be  the  practice  of  accounting  officers  to  reject 


138  Alexander  Hamilton 

Regulations   Respecting   Certain   Supplies,    and  Re- 
specting Special  and  Extra  Expense 

The  several  contractors,  besides  rations,  including 
ardent  spirits  and  vinegar,  shall  only  provide  and 
furnish  quarters,  transportation,  forage,  fuel,  straw, 
stationery,  and,  where  there  shall  be  no  other  pro- 
vision for  the  purpose,  medical  assistance. 

The  quarters  intended  are  those  of  a  temporary 
kind.  The  power  to  provide  them  shall  not  extend 
to  the  building  or  repairing  of  barracks.  In  what 
they  furnish,  they  shall  govern  themselves  exclu- 
sively by  the  regulations  which  shall  have  been  es- 
tablished by  law  or  by  the  War  Department;  and, 
where  none  exist,  by  the  orders  of  the  particular 
commanding  officer. 

No  barrack  or  other  building  shall  be  erected  but 
by  order  of  the  quartermaster-general,  the  deputy 
quartermaster-general,  or,  in  a  separate  command, 

items  in  the  accounts  of  contractors,  which  have  been  furnished,  upon 
the  orders  of  particular  military  commanders,  even  in  cases  in  which  no 
rule  has  been  prescribed  to  the  contractors.  This,  in  my  opinion,  is 
neither  just  nor  regular.  The  disbursement,  if  vouched  by  such  an 
order,  ought  to  be  admitted  to  the  credit  of  the  contractor,  and  charged 
to  the  officer,  till  a  satisfactory  explanation  shall  satisfy  the  depart- 
ment that  it  ought  to  be  a  public  charge.  In  most  cases,  when  not 
strictly  proper  in  the  abstract,  it  will  be  expedient  that  the  expense 
shall  be  defrayed  by  the  public,  and  a  repetition  prevented  by  more 
precise  instructions,  or,  where  these  have  not  been  deficient,  by  the 
reprehension  or  punishment  of  the  officer. 

One  bad  consequence  of  embarrassing  the  adjustment  of  the  con- 
tractors' accounts  may  be  that  they  will  refuse,  in  cases  of  the  least 
doubt,  to  comply  with  orders  which  are  dictated  by  necessary  and 
emergent  services.  Besides  that,  on  principle,  two  discretions  in  un- 
defined cases  are  an  absurdity;  and  if  but  one,  it  is  properly  with  the 
commanding  officer,  upon  his  responsibility;  and  the  contractor,  who 
ought  not  to  exercise  a  discretion,  ought  in  no  event  to  suffer. 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  139 

the  commander  of  an  army,  or  the  commander 
within  a  separate  military  district  or  department,  or 
of  the  Secretary  at  War.  No  repairs  shall  be  made  to 
any  barrack  or  building  which  shall  incur  a  disburse- 
ment of  money  exceeding  fifty  dollars;  but,  by  the 
like  order,  where  there  are  several  distinct  forts  or 
posts  in  a  subdivision  of  a  great  military  district, 
united  under  the  command  of  an  intermediate  su- 
perior, the  particular  commandant  of  either  of  those 
posts  shall  not  cause  any  such  repairs  to  be  made, 
though  occasioning  no  greater  expense  than  fifty  dol- 
lars, without  a  previous  report  to  such  superior,  and 
his  approbation.  No  extra  expense  for  any  special 
object  or  purpose  shall  be  incurred  by  such  particular 
commandant,  without  a  previous  report  to  the  said 
superior;  who,  when  such  expense  may  exceed  fifty 
dollars,  shall  not  authorize  it  without  first  obtaining 
the  sanction  of  his  superior.  The  commandant  of  a 
particular  fort  or  district,  having  no  intermediate 
superior,  shall  incur  no  expense  for  repairs,  nor  any 
extra  expense  for  any  special  object  or  purpose, 
which  may  require  a  disbursement  exceeding  fifty 
dollars,  without  the  permission  of  the  commander 
of  the  army  or  district,  or  of  the  Secretary  at  War. 

As  often  as  any  matter  which  may  require  any 
special  or  extra  expense  can  wait,  without  material 
injury  to  the  service,  for  a  communication  to  and 
the  direction  of  the  commander  of  an  army  or  dis- 
trict, it  is  not  to  be  undertaken  till  after  such  com- 
munication and  direction  shall  have  been  had. 

These  regulations  admit  of  exceptions  in  cases 
of  extraordinary  emergency  and  of  peculiar  urgency, 


14°  Alexander  Hamilton 

when  the  service  would  be  likely  to  suffer  materially 
from  the  delay  which  might  attend  the  observance  of 
them.  Every  such  exception  will  be  on  the  special 
responsibility  of  the  officer  by  whom  it  may  be  made, 
who  must  immediately  report  to  his  superior  the  oc- 
casion, and  the  expense,  probable  or  actual.  The 
commander  of  an  army,  or  within  a  great  district, 
may,  by  instructions  in  writing,  to  be  forthwith 
communicated  to  the  Secretary  at  War,  make  ex- 
ceptions in  cases  where  the  remoteness  of  the  fort  or 
post  shall  render  the  application  of  these  regulations 
manifestly  inconvenient;  intrusting  a  large  discre- 
tion to  the  commandant  of  such  fort  or  post. 

The  quartermaster-general,  his  deputies  and  as- 
sistants, are  primarily  charged  with  the  making  of 
the  disbursements  in  the  cases  above  mentioned. 
When  there  is  no  such  officer,  the  agent  of  the  War 
Department  in  the  vicinity  shall  do  it.  All  orders 
for  such  disbursement  must  be  definite,  and  in 
writing,  to  be  transmitted  with  the  accounts  of  them 
to  the  accountant  of  the  War  Department. 


HAMILTON   TO    COLONEL   MOORE 

NEW  YORK,  September  18,  1799. 

I  have  received  your  letter  of  the  i7th  instant,  and 
regret  extremely  the  event  of  which  it  informs  me. 
Although  it  is  not  my  intention  to  contravene  mili- 
tary prejudices  on  the  subject,  yet  I  doubt  not  you 
will  agree  with  me  that  it  is  proper  to  discourage  a 
spirit  which  would  lead  to  frequent  events  of  this 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  141 

nature.  I  have  been  the  more  naturally  led  to  this 
reflection,  as  I  am  informed  by  General  Wilkinson 
that  the  practice  of  duelling  in  the  Western  army 
has  been  carried  to  an  extreme  in  every  view  repre- 
hensible and  injurious.  I  must  request  from  you  a 
particular  statement  of  the  circumstances  of  this 
unhappy  affair. 

HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  September  19,  1799. 

SIR: — I  have  communicated  to  Colonel  Bentley 
your  resolution,  as  expressed  in  your  letter  of  the 
3oth  of  August,  in  respect  to  the  late  appointments 
for  his  regiment. 

But  the  occasion  claims  from  me  some  remarks, 
as  due  to  my  own  opinion  of  propriety  and  the  good 
of  the  service. 

I  cannot  doubt  that  the  practice  of  your  depart- 
ment, as  to  the  filling  of  vacancies  in  new  corps,  pre- 
vious to  your  coming  into  it,  was  just  as  you  state; 
but  in  the  latitude  in  which  it  is  stated,  I  cannot 
easily  be  persuaded  that  it  is  such  a  practice  as 
ought  to  be  continued,  or  that  it  is  not  of  a  nature 
to  sow  the  seeds  of  permanent  discontent  in  the  in- 
fancy of  every  corps. 

I  can,  nevertheless,  agree  in  the  position  of  the 
Commander-in-Chief,  that  when,  in  the  case  of  a 
newly  created  corps,  an  officer  declines  his  appoint- 
ment, during  the  act  of  formation,  the  vacancy  is 
not  necessarily  to  be  filled  by  the  next  in  seniority. 

But  this  is  a  rule  rather  to  be  narrowed  than 
extended  in  its  application ;  because  it  clashes  with 


142  Alexander  Hamilton 

expectations  that  will  inevitably  grow  up  in  the 
minds  of  officers,  and  in  which  their  pride  and  self- 
love  will  always  take  a  very  active  part.  It  is,  in 
my  opinion,  to  carry  it  to  an  impolitic  extreme,  to 
say  that  it  shall  operate  until  "the  regiment,  legion, 
or  corps  has  been  recruited,  or  nearly  so,  and  has 
marched  to  head-quarters."  And  to  apply  it  to  a 
single  case  of  promotion  is  to  mistake  its  principle, 
as,  from  the  subsequent  expressions  of  the  Com- 
mander-in-Chief,  may  be  inferred  to  be  his  idea. 
The  rule  is  naturally  confined  to  the  case  of  an  officer 
in  the  original  creation,  who  declines  his  appoint- 
ment; in  other  words,  who  refuses  to  accept.  The 
moment  a  station  has  been  filled  by  acceptance, 
though  but  for  a  day,  the  right  of  promotion  at- 
taches to  it,  and,  if  becoming  afterward  vacant,  it  is 
filled  by  a  new  person,  this  is  a  violation  of  the  prin- 
ciples of  service  and  of  the  just  expectations  of  sub- 
ordinate officers.  It  is  not  a  correct  answer  to  this 
to  say,  that  a  corps  "is  open  to  new  appointments," 
or,  as  I  understand  the  phrase,  that  the  right  of 
promotion  does  not  commence  till  after  the  relative 
rank  of  the  officers  who  have  been  appointed  has 
been  settled. 

The  want  of  a  settlement  of  relative  rank  among 
them  only  leaves  it  doubtful  what  individual  of 
their  number  shall  succeed,  but  it  does  not  involve 
any  doubt  whether  aggregately  they  do  not  exclude 
a  stranger.  There  is  still  a  clear  right  of  some  one 
of  them  to  succeed,  to  be  effectuated  as  soon  as  the 
relative  rank  is  established ;  and  new  persons  ought 
to  come  in  junior  to  them  all. 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  143 

The  appointment,  therefore,  of  a  new  person  in 
the  place  of  one  designated  to  an  office  in  the  regi- 
mental staff,  to  take  precedence  of  others  before  ap- 
pointed, is  irregular,  and  not  warranted  by  the  rule, 
if  taken  within  just  limits,  or  within  the  definition 
of  the  Commander-in-Chief . 

Even  the  practice  of  introducing  new  men  to 
vacancies  occasioned  by  the  non-acceptance  of 
officers  in  the  original  appointment,  ought  not,  in 
my  judgment,  to  be  continued  till  the  corps  should 
have  been  recruited  or  nearly  so,  and  marched  to 
head-quarters,  as  you  state  to  have  been  the  case. 

This  may  be  so  long  protracted  as  to  postpone  in- 
conveniently the  routine  of  promotion,  and  produce 
dissatisfaction.  A  reasonable  period  should  be  fixed 
within  which  acceptances  may  with  due  diligence  be 
ascertained — suppose  three  months  from  the  first 
appointment  of  officers.  To  keep  the  thing  open  for 
a  year  or  more,  which  is  likely  to  be  the  case  in  the 
present  instance,  if  the  completion  of  the  regiment 
should  be  the  criterion,  could  not  fail  to  beget  dis- 
content even  in  men  of  moderate  and  subordinate 
tempers. 

The  recommendation  of  persons  as  officers  by  the 
commandants  of  regiments  ought,  I  think,  when  the 
contrary  is  not  expressed,  to  be  understood  to  mean, 
that  they  shall  come  in  as  junior  second  lieutenants. 
If  I  recollect  rightly,  in  one  or  two  instances  of  an 
early  date  they  have  expressed  the  contrary,  and  re- 
lying upon  their  judgment  of  the  probable  effect  on 
their  regiments,  I  have  countenanced  the  recom- 
mendation. But  I  am  clearly  of  opinion  that  this 


144  Alexander  Hamilton 

ought  not  to  be  the  case  in  future ;  and  that,  con- 
sidering the  length  of  time  which  has  elapsed  since 
the  organization  of  the  regiment,  it  is  indispensable 
that  the  routine  of  promotion  shall  henceforth  pre- 
vail, with  the  exception  perhaps  of  the  fifth  regi- 
ment, in  consideration  of  the  receiving  of  the 
appointments  for  it. 

Military  prejudices  are  not  only  inseparable  from, 
but  they  are  essential  to,  the  military  profession. 

The  government  which  desires  to  have  a  satisfied 
and  useful  army  must  consult  them.  They  cannot 
be  moulded  at  its  pleasure;  it  is  vain  to  aim  at 
it. 

I  must  entreat,  sir,  that  the  observations  which 
I  have  offered  in  this  letter  may  be  attentively 
weighed.  They  are  urged  upon  mature  reflection, 
and  are  believed  to  be  material  to  your  satisfaction 
and  that  of  the  officers-principal  in  command,  to  the 
satisfaction  of  all  the  officers,  present  and  future,  to 
whom  they  are  applicable,  and  to  the  harmonious 
course  of  our  military  affairs. 

With  great  respect  and  esteem,  I  have  the  honor 
to  be,  etc. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  September  ai,  1799. 

SIR: — I  feel  it  as  a  mark  of  consideration  for  my 
recommendation,  that  notwithstanding  the  force  of 
the  difficulties  which  in  your  view  operate  against 
further  advances  not  founded  upon  the  prescribed 
forms,  you  are  pleased  to  declare  that  you  will  once 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  145 

more  give  your  sanction  to  the  measure.  I  must 
entreat  you  even  to  go  a  step  further,  and  to  order 
that  it  be  without  fail  done.  For  symptoms  border- 
ing on  mutiny,  for  the  want  of  pay,  have  been  re- 
ported to  me  as  having  appeared  in  the  twelfth  and 
thirteenth  regiments;  and  discontents,  less  turbu- 
lent, have  been  communicated  from  several  other 
quarters.  An  explosion  anywhere  would  injure  and 
discredit  the  service,  and,  wherever  the  blame  might 
really  be,  would  be  shared  by  all.  No  one  can  be 
more  deeply  impressed  than  I  am  with  the  necessity 
of  a  strict  adherence  to  general  rules  and  to  estab- 
lished forms.  But  there  will  occur  circumstances 
in  which  these  ought  to  be  dispensed  with,  and  it  is 
equally  important  to  judge  rightly  when  exceptions 
ought  to  be  admitted,  as  when  the  general  rule 
ought  to  be  maintained. 

The  creation  of  a  new  army,  in  which  every  offi- 
cer from  the  highest  to  the  lowest  is  of  new  ap- 
pointment, and  in  respect  to  which,  in  and  out  of 
the  administration,  there  is  a  deficiency  of  some 
essential  organs,  presents  a  case  which  with  the  ut- 
most diligence  and  care  will  require  and  justify 
relaxations. 

For  instance,  the  law  and  the  instructions  of  the 
Treasury  Department  require  that  the  pay  of  the 
troops  shall  be  founded  upon  warrants  of  the  com- 
manding general,  regulated  by  the  reports  of  the 
paymaster-general;  or,  as  I  maintain  the  con- 
struction of  the  late  law  to  be,  of  his  deputy,  with 
a  separate  command.  How  was  that  practicable 
when  the  paymaster-general  was  at  Cincinnati,  and 


VOL.  VII. — 10. 


146  Alexander  Hamilton 

he  had  no  deputy  anywhere?  How  can  it  now  be 
done  with  reasonable  convenience  and  expedition, 
when  he  resides  at  Philadelphia,  and  he  has  no 
deputy  attached  either  to  my  command  or  to  that 
of  General  Pinckney? 

Again,  muster-  and  pay-rolls  are  to  be  in  certain 
precise  forms,  prescribed  by  the  Treasury;  these 
forms  were  received  by  me  only  four  days  since,  and 
consequently  could  not  hitherto  be  in  the  possession 
of  the  commandants  of  regiments.  It  will  not  be 
said  that  I  ought  to  have  called  for  them;  because 
certainly  it  lies  with  the  department  to  communi- 
cate its  own  regulations  uncalled  for.  Are  the  sol- 
diery to  suffer  a  privation  of  pay  for  several  months, 
because  these  forms,  never  prescribed,  have  not 
been  fulfilled? 

It  is  true  that  when  I  was  at  the  head  of  the 
Treasury  Department,  these  forms  passed  under  my 
eye;  but  it  is  no  less  true  that  I  had  forgotten  the 
circumstance,  and  that  considering  it  as  an  attribute 
of  the  inspector-general  to  devise  forms,  where  none 
were  before  established  by  higher  authority,  I  had 
caused  to  be  prepared  forms  of  muster-  and  pay- 
rolls to  answer  the  present  exigency.  Surely,  as  the 
matter  is  situated,  these  forms  ought  provisionally 
at  least  to  serve  as  substitutes  for  the  established 
ones. 

Various  other  particulars  might  be  added  to  prove 
that  dispensations  with  the  ordinary  forms  ought  to 
take  place  in  relation  to  the  new  regiments ;  but  the 
foregoing  are  sufficient  for  the  illustration. 

Every  effort,  no  doubt,  ought  to  be  made,  and  on 


Hamilton  to  Colonel  Moore  147 

my  part  will  be  made  as  fast  as  possible,  to  put  this 
and  every  other  matter  in  its  proper  and  regular 
train;  but  time  is  requisite,  and  the  organs  which 
depend  on  administrative  authority  must  first  be 
instituted. 

The  Treasury  as  well  as  the  War  Department  has 
too  often  experienced  the  necessity  of  accommodat- 
ing relaxations  in  special  cases,  not  readily  to  admit 
upon  reflection  that  they  are  right  in  the  existing 
position  of  our  new  army. 

As  to  the  persons  who  are  to  muster  the  twelve 
regiments,  they  are,  by  my  direction,  the  command- 
ant of  the  regiment,  and  the  surgeon,  or  person 
officiating  in  that  capacity.  It  seems  to  me  that, 
till  inspectors  are  appointed,  nothing  could  be  done 
which  would  promise  greater  security  to  the  public. 
I  did  not  like  to  multiply  agents;  I  consider  that 
this  is  substantially  conformable  to  the  instruction 
from  the  Treasury,  and  will  be  so  understood;  if  not, 
you  will  please  to  inform  me. 

With  great  respect,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  sir, 
Your  obedient  servant,  etc. 


HAMILTON   TO   COL.    MOORE 

NEW  YORK,  September  30,  1799. 

SIR: — I  have  received  your  letter  of  the  28th  in- 
stant, and  shall  make  but  one  inquiry  more  with  re- 
spect to  the  unfortunate  affair  between  Lieut.  - 
and  Capt  -        — .     You  will  be  so  good  as  to  inform 
me  of  the  particular  subject  on  which  the  political 


148  Alexander  Hamilton 

dispute  turned,  and  of  the  principles  that  were 
maintained  by  the  respective  parties.  The  informa- 
tion I  am  anxious  to  receive. 

I  am  pleased  with  the  pains  you  have  taken  to  dis- 
courage a  repetition  of  such  instances.  If  examples 
were  wanting  to  illustrate  the  pernicious  effects  of 
drinking  to  intoxication,  the  present  unfortunate 
affair  would  be  a  very  instructive  one.  How  neces- 
sary is  it,  as  well  by  the  means  which  affect  the  pride 
and  delicacy  of  officers,  as  by  those  which  are  fur- 
nished by  the  principles  of  discipline,  to  discoun- 
tenance so  ungentlemanly  a  propensity.  You  have 
the  leave  of  absence  which  you  request. 


HAMILTON   TO   COL.    MOORE 

NEW  YORK,  October  6,  1799. 

SIR  : — It  is  afflicting  to  learn  that  such  a  dispute  as 
you  state  in  your  letter  of  the  3d  instant  should 
have  occurred  between  two  officers  of  the  American 
army.  Particular  attachment  to  any  foreign  nation 
is  an  exotic  sentiment  which,  where  it  exists,  must 
derogate  from  the  exclusive  affection  due  to  our  own 
country.  Partiality  to  France  at  this  late  day  is  a 
bad  symptom.  The  profession  of  it  by  Capt.  -  — , 
in  my  opinion,  does  him  no  honor.  How  far  it  ought 
to  impair  confidence,  must  depend  in  a  degree  on 
personal  character.  But  as  often  as  a  similar  bias 
is  manifested,  the  conduct  of  the  person  ought  to 
engage  the  vigilant  attention  of  the  commanding 
officer.  I  hesitate  as  to  what  my  duty  requires  on 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  149 

the  occasion,  and  must  think  further  of  the  matter. 
You  will  be  pleased  to  ascertain,  and  inform  me 

whether  Lieut.  -     be  an  American  citizen  or 

not.     You  will  receive  another  letter  of  this  date  on 
the  subject  of  winter  quarters. 

With  confidence  and  esteem. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

TRENTON,  October  12,  1799. 

SIR: — It  is  now  time  to  contemplate  the  distribu- 
tion of  the  troops  of  the  United  States  into  divisions 
and  brigades.  The  arrangement  which  appears  to 
me  expedient  for  the  present  is  this:  " That  the  four 
old  regiments  shall  form  one  division  and  two  brig- 
ades; the  twelve  new  ones,  two  divisions  and  four 
brigades." 

The  very  great  sphere  of  action  to  which  the 
former  are  destined,  including  important  and  com- 
plicated objects  appears  to  me  to  render  it  expedient 
that  not  more  than  two  regiments  shall  constitute  a 
brigade.  But  the  latter,  till  there  should  be  actual 
service,  when  the  system  supposes  that  the  number 
of  each  regiment  would  be  increased,  may,  for  the 
mere  purposes  of  discipline,  be  conveniently  formed 
three  to  a  brigade.  The  disposition  for  winter 
quarters  accords  with  this  idea. 

Correspondent  officers  should  be  appointed,  who 
are  principally  generals,  quartermasters,  and  in- 
spectors. 

The  latter  are  of  the  competency  of  the  inspector- 


150  Alexander  Hamilton 

general,  who  will  proceed  without  delay  to  make  the 
appointments. 

If  the  non-appointment  of  the  quartermaster- 
general,  provided  for  by  the  Act  of  the  3d  of  March 
last  for  the  better  organizing  of  the  army,  or  the 
absence  of  the  former  quartermaster-general,  be  an 
impediment  to  the  regular  course  of  constituting  a 
deputy  quartermaster-general  to  each  military  dis- 
trict, and  division  and  brigade  quartermasters,  a 
substitute  must  be  adopted. 

Usage,  founded  on  necessity  in  similar  cases,  would 
authorize  each  commanding  general  to  designate 
persons  provisorily  to  perform  the  duties.  But  he 
cannot  annex  the  extra  compensation,  and  without 
this,  or  the  expectation  of  it,  the  business  would 
labor. 

I  request  your  interposition.  I  deem  essential  the 
immediate  appointment  within  my  command  of  a 
deputy  quartermaster-general,  and  one  division  and 
two  brigade  quartermasters;  and  I  will  observe  in- 
cidentally, that  the  same  thing  must  be  requisite 
within  the  command  of  General  Pinckney. 

As  to  generals,  the  President  must  decide.  With 
the  Western  army  there  is  no  major-general  and  one 
brigadier.  Two  brigadiers  were  appointed  for  the 
additional  army,  but  no  more  than  one  is  under- 
stood to  have  accepted.  I  am  anxious  that  the  de- 
ficiency should  be  supplied.  The  discipline  of  the 
troops  ought  to  be  accelerated.  It  must  suffer  more 
or  less  as  often  as  one  organ  is  transferred  from  its 
proper  situation  to  another.  I  entreat  a  prompt 
decision  on  the  subject  of  quartermaster. 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  151 

HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

TRENTON,  October  12,  1799. 

SIR: — I  have  the  honor  to  transmit  the  plan  which 
is  conceived  to  be  proper  for  the  disposition  of  the 
four  regiments  of  the  permanent  establishment.  It 
is  the  result  of  communications  with  General  Wil- 
kinson and  the  Commander-in-Chief,  and  accords 
with  the  opinion  of  the  latter. 

The  principal  objects  of  this  plan  are:  i.  The  dis- 
tribution of  the  troops  by  corps  in  contiguous  re- 
lative positions,  keeping  the  men  embodied  under 
their  own  officers,  and  making  the  commandants  of 
regiments  and  battalions  to  superintend  their  re- 
spective corps;  an  arrangement  no  less  favorable  to 
the  convenience  and  regularity  of  supply  than  to  the 
order  and  discipline  of  the  troops.  2.  The  reduction 
of  the  number  of  posts;  some  of  which,  however  use- 
ful when  originally  occupied,  can,  under  existing  cir- 
cumstances, answer  no  valuable  purpose,  but  tend 
to  subdivide  too  much  our  inconsiderable  force,  and 
to  increase  the  difficulty  and  expense  of  supply.  3. 
The  obtaining  of  a  reserve  force,  which,  being  sta- 
tioned in  a  central  position,  will  bear  upon  various 
points  either  for  succor  or  attack,  and  by  its  con- 
centration will  be  capable  of  discipline  and  ready  for 
active  and  efficient  efforts.  4.  The  promotion  of 
economy,  by  lessening  the  garrisons  of  some  of  the 
most  remote  stations,  and  bringing  a  principal  part 
of  the  force  to  a  situation  where  it  can  be  supplied 
with  comparative  cheapness. 

In  judging  of  the  effect  of  the  plan  in  the  last  view, 
it  is  necessary  to  advert  that  the  present  low  state  of 


152  Alexander  Hamilton 

the  corps,  in  point  of  numbers,  is  not  the  criterion. 
In  the  natural  order  of  service,  the  recruits  would 
reinforce  them  several  companies,  and  in  this  case 
the  actual  distribution  of  the  troops  would  give  to 
posts  in  the  most  expensive  situations  greater  num- 
bers than  are  allotted  to  them  by  the  present  plan. 

The  reduction  of  the  garrison  of  Michilimackinac, 
in  particular,  has  been  very  much  influenced  by  the 
consideration  of  economy.  This  motive  was  the 
more  readily  yielded  to,  as  it  is  not  perceived  that  a 
greater  number  there,  if  bearing  any  proportion  to 
the  whole  force  which  we  have  to  employ  in  the 
Western  quarter,  would  answer  any  better  purpose 
than  the  number  proposed  to  be  continued.  This 
number  will  serve  to  occupy  the  point  as  one  of  the 
portals  of  the  country,  and  to  cover  the  few  white 
inhabitants  there  settled.  In  a  suitable  fortifica- 
tion, especially  as  the  site  is  an  island,  it  may  effectu- 
ally resist  Indian  attack;  and  any  greater  number 
which  could  be  spared  could  neither  act  offensively 
against  them,  nor  maintain  themselves  against 
serious  attack  from  our  English  neighbors.  In  the 
last  supposition  the  increase  of  number,  from  the 
impracticability  of  reinforcement  and  succor,  would 
only  serve  to  increase  loss. 

It  is  not  understood  that  the  station  procures  to 
us  at  the  present  juncture  any  commercial  advan- 
tage, but  in  this  respect  is  principally  convenient  to 
the  British  traders  in  peltry,  who,  in  their  inter- 
course with  the  neighboring  Indians,  have  a  rendez- 
vous at  this  place. 

The  primary  inducement  to  us  to  keep  a  post 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  153 

there  is,  as  before  intimated,  to  retain  the  occupa- 
tion of  what  may  be  considered  as  one  of  the  portals 
of  our  Northwestern  Territory,  and  to  avoid  the  ap- 
pearance to  the  Indians  of  an  abandonment  of  that 
part  of  the  country.  It  contributes  also,  in  some 
degree,  to  an  influence  over  the  tribes  connected  with 
Lake  Michigan;  and  in  time  to  come  it  may  be 
an  encouragement  to  the  enterprises  of  American 
traders.  But  all  these  ends  will,  it  is  conceived,  be 
accomplished  by  a  small  force. 

The  force  now  upon  the  lower  parts  of  the  Missis- 
sippi will  also  be  reduced. 

It  is  conceived  that  the  number  contemplated  by 
the  plan  will  be  sufficient  to  garrison  and  maintain 
the  forts  which  ought  at  this  time  to  exist  in  that 
region,  to  impress  with  due  respect  the  adjacent  In- 
dians, to  give  reasonable  protection  to  the  inhabit- 
ants, and  to  keep  such  of  them  as  may  have  foreign 
attachments  in  check.  A  greater  number  would  be 
inexpedient,  because  any  number  which  the  state  of 
our  military  establishment  would  permit  to  be  sta- 
tioned there  would  not  be  adequate  to  the  repelling 
of  a  serious  attack  from  our  neighbors,  and,  being 
out  of  the  reach  of  succor,  would,  for  that  reason,  be 
in  imminent  danger  of  total  defeat  and  loss;  while 
it  would  be  still  more  inadequate  to  an  offensive 
operation,  and,  by  its  proximity,  would  be  likely  to 
create  alarm  and  occasion  reinforcement. 

In  the  event  of  an  invasion  from  below,  our  re- 
served force  placed  on  the  Ohio,  reinforced  by  the 
militia,  to  which  it  would  be  a  rallying  point,  can 
descend  to  meet  it  with  effect,  or  can  take  such  other 


154  Alexander  Hamilton 

measures  as  circumstances  may  dictate.  If  a  rup- 
ture with  Spain  should  induce  us  to  become  the  in- 
vaders, the  force  assigned  to  the  undertaking  can 
rapidly  descend  the  Mississippi,  and,  being  at  a  great 
distance,  will  have  a  better  chance  of  making  its  ap- 
proach and  of  arriving  unexpectedly,  than  if  sta- 
tioned at  a  place  which  by  its  nearness  would  excite 
jealousy  and  vigilance. 

But  I  agree  in  opinion  with  General  Wilkinson, 
that  a  strongly  fortified  post  ought  to  guard  our  ex- 
tremity on  the  Mississippi.  It  will  not  only  serve 
as  an  impediment  to  invasion  by  the  Spaniards,  but 
will  have  an  impressive  influence  on  the  powerful 
tribes  of  Indians  in  our  Southwestern  Territory. 
Loftus'  Heights  (where  you  are  informed  a  fortifica- 
tion is  begun),  according  to  the  description  and  plans 
communicated  by  General  Wilkinson,  is  peculiarly 
designated  as  the  proper  site  of  such  a  post.  It  is 
near  our  southern  line,  by  much  the  highest  point  in 
an  extensive  district  of  country,  and  commands  the 
narrowest  part  of  the  river.  The  dimensions  of  the 
summit  are  understood  to  correspond  with  a  fort 
which  maybe  defended  with  about  two  hundred  men, 
and  which  would  protect  the  batteries  in  advance 
towards  the  river,  and  in  other  directions.  I  concur 
in  the  expediency  of  occupying  this  height  with  a 
regular  fortification  of  stone  or  brick,  garnished  into 
the  proper  exterior  batteries.  Bricks,  I  am  assured, 
are  easily  made  in  the  vicinity.  Inclosed  is  an  esti- 
mate of  the  probable  expense.  Though  by  no  means 
an  advocate  for  multiplying,  in  the  present  circum- 
stances of  the  country,  the  number  of  our  fortifica- 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  155 

tions,  already  too  great,  I  entertain  no  doubt  of  the 
expediency  of  the  one  in  question,  and  the  object  is 
well  worth  the  probable  expense. 

It  will  be  seen  that  a  battalion  is  assigned  to  the 
care  of  this  fort,  and  of  another  now  possessed  on  the 
Mobile. 

The  propriety  of  continuing  the  latter  post  may, 
however,  depend  on  circumstances.  It  is  useful  for 
the  protection  of  an  existing  settlement,  and  will  add 
to  the  influence  of  our  establishment  upon  the  minds 
of  the  Indians;  but  the  supply  of  it  is  difficult  and 
expensive,  and  it  is  now  effected  through  the  Spanish 
territory.  In  case  of  a  diminution  of  amity  with 
Spain,  that  circumstance  would  compel  to  a  removal, 
unless  another  channel  can  be  conveniently  opened. 
Indeed,  if  this  cannot  be  shortly  done,  it  will  hardly 
be  proper  to  retain  the  post.  The  duration  of  the 
arrangement,  in  this  particular,  may,  therefore,  be 
considered  as  contingent. 

The  position  which  has  been  chosen  for  the  re- 
serve corps  has  various  aspects.  It  looks  to  the 
succor  of  the  more  northern  as  well  as  the  more 
southern  posts,  and  will  be  likely  to  control  effica- 
ciously the  Northwestern  Indians;  it  has  an  eye  to 
a  co-operation  with  the  troops  in  the  State  of  Ten- 
nessee, whenever  a  good  communication  shall  be 
established,  which  is  conceived  to  be  an  object  of 
pressing  moment ;  and  it  is  convenient  for  a  descent 
by  the  river  Mississippi,  for  offensive  operations 
against  our  neighbors  on  the  south,  if  future  cir- 
cumstances should  recommend  them.  But,  as  well 
with  a  view  to  defence  as  offence,  it  is  deemed 


156  Alexander  Hamilton 

requisite  to  prepare  and  keep  ready  below  the  rapids 
of  the  Ohio  a  number  of  boats  equal  to  the  trans- 
portation of  three  thousand  men,  with  baggage, 
stores,  provisions,  artillery,  and  other  apparatus. 
The  number  and  the  estimate  of  their  cost  will  be 
found  herewith. 

A  firm  occupation  of  the  straits  which  connect 
Lake  Erie  with  the  Huron  and  Ontario,  appears  to 
me  a  material  point.  It  is  doubtful  whether  the 
posts  now  on  those  straits  are  the  best  adapted  to 
that  end  either  as  to  local  situation  or  construction. 
But  unfortunately  the  want  of  a  skilful  engineer  (a 
very  painful  circumstance  in  our  military  affairs)  is 
an  obstacle  to  the  due  examination  of  this  point.  It 
is,  nevertheless,  one  which  must  be  attended  to,  as 
early  as  shall  be  practicable.  It  would  seem  to  me 
desirable  erelong  to  have  on  each  strait,  a  work 
suited  to  about  a  thousand  men,  with  an  interior 
work  in  the  nature  of  a  citadel,  adapted  to  about 
two  hundred.  These  might  be  expected  to  secure 
the  place  against  a  coup  de  main  with  a  small  force, 
and  the  growth  of  settlement  in  the  vicinity  will  soon 
furnish  through  the  militia  the  means  of  augmenting 
the  garrison  upon  a  sudden  emergency.  The  good 
understanding  which  at  this  time  subsists  between 
the  United  States  and  Great  Britain,  justifies  an 
arrangement  less  efficient  than  that  just  intimated. 
But  the  permanency  of  friendship  between  nations 
is  too  little  to  be  relied  upon  not  to  render  it  prudent 
to  look  forward  to  more  substantial  precautions  than 
are  immediately  meditated.  You  will  likewise  have 
observed  that  particular  attention  is  paid  to  Massac. 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  157 

In  my  opinion,  very  cogent  and  comprehensive 
reasons  render  it  the  policy  of  the  United  States  to 
secure  and  command  the  confluence  of  the  Tennes- 
see and  Cumberland  rivers  with  the  Ohio,  and  of  the 
Ohio  with  the  Mississippi.  To  this  end  respectable 
fortifications,  to  be  gradually  executed,  are  neces- 
sary. 

The  leading  motives  to  the  plan,  which  I  have  the 
honor  to  submit,  have  been  sketched ;  considerations 
not  mentioned  will  readily  present  themselves  to 
your  reflections  as  having  operated  on  parts  of  the 
plan.  Among  these,  the  maintenance  of  the  troops 
on  moderate  terms  has  not  been  overlooked  in  the 
choice  of  the  principal  station. 

Nothing  particular  has  been  said  as  to  the  regiment 
allotted  to  General  Pinckney 's  command,  because  the 
disposition  of  it  belongs  to  him. 

But  the  plan  which  I  offer  requires  your  interposi- 
tion to  give  it  effect  within  the  limits  of  that  officer's 
district.  There  are  now  there  a  regiment  and  part  of 
another.  An  instruction  from  you  is  necessary  to 
incorporate  the  men  so  as  to  form  one  full  regiment- 
marching  the  overplus  to  Harper's  Ferry,  to  be  sent 
in  the  spring  to  the  Ohio. 

The  fourth  regiment  will  naturally  be  that  to  be 
assigned  to  Tennessee  and  Georgia.  The  men  of  the 
third,  now  in  Georgia,  can  continue  there,  but  trans- 
ferred to  the  fourth.  These,  with  those  at  present 
under  Colonel  Butler,  in  Tennessee,  will  make  a  full 
regiment.  And  the  recruits,  under  Major  Bradley, 
may  at  once  be  sent  to  Harper's  Ferry.  In  the  course 
of  the  winter  the  officers  of  the  third,  in  Georgia,  can 


158  Alexander  Hamilton 

repair  to  Harper's  Ferry,  and  a  sufficient  number  of 
those  of  the  fourth  can  replace  them  in  Georgia. 

An  arrangement  for  the  officers  of  the  four  old  regi- 
ments is  now  submitted  to  your  consideration;  when 
approved,  no  time  will  be  lost  in  bringing  officers  and 
men  together  at  the  several  stations.  At  present 
they  are  extremely  mingled  and  confused;  officers  of 
one  regiment  are  with  the  men  of  another,  and  so 
great  is  the  disorder  that  I  am  assured  that  in  one 
instance  two  companies  are  mustered  to  the  same 
captain — I  allude  to  the  case  of  Captain  -  — . 

It  is  alike  important  and  urgent  to  be  enabled  to 
carry  this  arrangement  into  execution,  or  with  such 
alterations  as  you  may  think  fit  to  prescribe.  The 
advanced  state  of  the  season  renders  it  necessary  that 
General  Wilkinson  should  depart  without  delay. 
This  he  cannot  do  until  he  receives  my  instructions, 
and  these  cannot  be  given  to  him  until  I  shall  receive 
your  answer  to  this  communication ;  my  antecedent 
authority  not  being  commensurate  with  all  the 
objects  contemplated,  and  the  Commander-in-Chief 
having  confined  himself  to  advice  without  giving 
directions. 

With  perfect  respect  and  esteem, 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  sir, 

Your  obedient  servant,  etc.1 

1  With  this  letter  was  a  plan  for  the  disposition  of  the  regiments.  It 
is  given  in  the  J.  C.  Hamilton  Edition,  but  as  it  is  substantially  the 
same  as  that  sent  to  Washington,  by  Hamilton,  in  his  letter  of  Sep- 
tember pth  (see  above) ,  it  did  not  seem  necessary  to  reprint  it  here. 


Hamilton  to  Caleb  Gibbs  159 

HAMILTON    TO    CALEB    GIBBS.1 

NEW  YORK,  October  24,  1799. 

SIR  : — I  have  received  your  very  improper  letter  of 
the  3oth  of  September.  This  is  not  the  first  instance 
of  my  life  in  which  good  offices  on  my  part  have  met 
with  an  ill  return. 

When  you  were  informed,  that  the  Commander-in- 
Chief  (who,  aided  by  General  Pinckney  and  myself, 
made,  in  the  first  instance,  the  nomination  of  officers 
for  the  twelve  regiments)  had  presented  your  name 
for  the  place  of  lieutenant-colonel  commandant,  you 
had  an  explanation  of  what  I  meant,  when  I  wrote  to 
you  that  your  disappointment  had  not  proceeded 
from  want  of  friendship  in  General  Washington  or 
myself — what  could  I  do  more  than  co-operate  in 
your  nomination  to  the  President?  This  I  did,  and 
with  great  cordiality.  What  agency  can  I  be  sup- 
posed to  have  had  after  this?  Evidently  whatever 
happened  subsequently  is  as  foreign  to  me  as  to 
General  Washington. 

'T  is  therefore  as  curious  as  it  is  unbecoming  to 
interrogate  me  in  a  peremptory  and  even  censorious 
manner  about  the  causes  which  may  have  induced  the 
President  to  reject  the  nomination.  It  is  true  that 
collaterally,  and  after  the  thing  was  determined 
upon,  I  heard  what  they  were,  but  it  was  in  a  manner 
which  did  not  leave  me  at  liberty  to  explain  to  you. 
This  I  before  hinted,  and  you  must,  on  reflection,  see 
the  impropriety  of  your  having  addressed  me  on  the 
subject  as  you  have  done.  It  is  very  certain  that 

1  Now  first  published  from  the  Hamilton  MSS.,  vol.  xviii.,  p.  99. 


160  Alexander  Hamilton 

you  never  can  nor  will  have  an  explanation  from  me 
on  the  point. 

If  any  one  has  wickedly  endeavored  to  make  you 
believe  that  there  has  been  any  thing  uncandid  or 
unfriendly  in  my  conduct,  you  ought  to  despise  the 
author  of  such  an  attempt  to  impose  on  your  under- 
standing. If  you  have  inferred  it  from  the  reserves 
in  my  mode  of  writing  to  you  on  the  subject,  you 
formed  as  false  an  estimate  of  what  the  delicacy 
of  my  situation  required  as  you  did  of  my  true 
character. 

I  am,  sir, 
Your  humble  servant,  etc. 


HAMILTON   TO    WILKINSON 

NEW  YORK,  October  31,  1799. 

SIR: — The  copious  explanations  which  have  been 
had  between  us  in  conversation,  on  the  subjects  of 
your  several  communications  of  the  6th  of  Septem- 
ber, 1 2th,  1 5th,  iQth,  and  2yth  instant,  will  abridge 
the  observations  naturally  connected  with  the  plan 
which  has  been  adopted  as  the  result,  and  which 
forms  the  object  of  the  present  instruction. 

This  plan,  as  you  know,  has  the  same  basis  with 
that  which  has  been  presented  by  you.  As  far  as 
there  may  be  variances  in  the  application  of  princi- 
ples, collateral  considerations  have  chiefly  influenced. 

It  is  contained  in  the  inclosed  paper,  A.  The  let- 
ters between  the  Secretary  of  War  and  myself,  of 
which  B,  C,  D,  and  E  are  copies,  exhibit  the  views 
which  have  reciprocally  governed.  In  the  execution 


Hamilton  to  Wilkinson  161 

of  this  plan,  many  details  arise  which  I  do  not  enter 
into,  because  they  will  most  properly  be  left  with  you. 
Neither  would  I  be  understood  to  require  a  literal  ex- 
ecution. The  great  outline  is,  under  existing  circum- 
stances, to  be  adhered  to;  but  you  are  at  liberty  to 
deviate  in  details  which  do  not  contravene  the  lead- 
ing objects. 

I  will  only  remark,  that  it  is  deemed  material  that 
no  greater  force  than  the  plan  contemplates  shall  be 
assigned  to  the  posts  below  the  confluence  of  the 
Ohio  with  the  Mississippi ;  and  that  the  reserve  force 
shall  not  be  stationed  more  westward  or  southward 
than  the  vicinity  of  the  rapids  of  the  Ohio. 

That  vicinity,  as  passing  the  obstacles  of  the  navi- 
gation above  and  facilitating  a  communication  with 
the  posts  below,  presents  itself  to  consideration. 

A  question  arises,  whether  the  north  or  the  south 
side  of  the  Ohio  should  be  preferred.  In  favor  of  the 
latter  is  the  important  consideration  that  by  the  con- 
tract for  the  ensuing  year  the  ration  is  at  least  two 
cents  and  eight  mills  cheaper  there  than  on  the  north 
side.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is  possible  that  the 
troops  there  may  be  exposed  to  vexations,  and  in 
danger  of  seduction  from  the  acts  of  disaffected  per- 
sons, which  might  not  attend  them  in  the  opposite 
territory;  but  these  inconveniences  do  not  appear 
likely  to  be  so  great  as  to  countervail  so  considerable 
a  difference  in  the  price  of  the  ration,  though  they 
might  be  allowed  to  prevail  against  a  small  difference. 
Unless,  therefore,  there  should  be  some  important 
alteration  in  this  particular,  I  recommend  to  you  the 
south  side  for  the  station  of  your  reserve  force. 


VOL.  VII. — II 


1 62  Alexander  Hamilton 

It  will  be  my  endeavor  to  engage  the  administra- 
tion to  organize  in  Tennessee,  Kentucky,  the  North- 
and  South-western  territories,  two  regiments  of 
infantry,  a  battalion  of  riflemen,  and  a  regiment 
of  dragoons,  under  the  act  which  provides  for  an 
eventual  army.  This,  if  effected,  may  afford  a  power- 
ful auxiliary  for  defensive  or  offensive  measures,  as 
future  exigencies  may  dictate. 

The  recruiting  for  the  corps  of  which  your  com- 
mand is  to  be  composed,  demands  and  has  my 
particular  attention.  You  are  apprised  that  the 
business  is  going  on  under  Major  Bradley  in  North 
Carolina  and  Virginia,  under  Major  Cass  in  the  State 
of  Delaware,  and  under  Major  Buel  in  the  State  of 
Vermont.  In  addition  to  this,  I  have  proposed  to 
the  Secretary  at  War  to  send  to  the  Westward  bounty 
money  and  clothing  for  re-enlisting  and  recruiting  to 
the  extent  of  a  full  regiment. 

There  are  small  detachments  of  recruits  for  the 
infantry  of  the  permanent  establishment  at  Norfolk 
in  Virginia,  Fredericktown  in  Maryland,  and  at  West 
Point  in  the  State  of  New  York,  which,  as  soon  as 
practicable,  will  reinforce  the  army  under  your  com- 
mand; and  exertions,  efficacious  as  I  trust,  will  be 
made  to  complete  the  force  allotted  to  you,  and  to 
have  it  on  the  ground  early  in  the  next  temperate 
season. 

The  new  organization  of  the  officers  of  the  four 
regiments,  which  you  have  suggested,  has  been  trans- 
mitted to  the  Secretary  at  War,  with  an  expression 
of  my  opinion  in  its  favor.  If  you  hear  nothing  to 
the  contrary  from  that  officer  previous  to  your 


Hamilton  to  Wilkinson  163 

departure  for  the  Mississippi,  you  will  consider  the 
plan  as  ratified  and  you  will  give  it  effect  within  your 
command.  If,  however,  in  the  execution  you  find 
small  deviations  expedient,  you  will  make  them, 
reporting  to  me  the  instances  and  the  motives. 

The  inspectors  of  division  and  brigades,  recom- 
mended by  you,  are  appointed.  The  affair  of  judge- 
advocate  has  not  yet  been  definitely  acted  upon. 

The  propriety  of  strongly  fortifying  Loftus' 
Heights,  being  on  all  sides  admitted,  so  far  as  the 
force  which  can  be  allowed  for  this  object  will  permit, 
it  remains  to  say  something  concerning  the  kind  of 
fortification. 

Professing  no  skill  as  an  engineer,  and,  as  a 
consequence  of  the  improvidence  of  our  national 
policy  in  time  past,  possessing  no  competent  aid  in 
others,  I  shall  attempt  nothing  more  than  to  offer 
hints.  Indeed,  a  critical  view  of  the  local  situation 
in  all  its  bearings,  not  merely  a  representation  on 
paper  of  the  part  which  looks  toward  the  river,  ought 
to  guide  and  regulate  the  plan  which  is  to  be  defi- 
nitely adopted.  This,  therefore,  must  be  left  to  you, 
with  the  help  of  the  best  lights  you  have  or  can 
procure. 

But  I  will  observe,  that  it  appears  to  me  advisable 
to  occupy  the  summit  of  the  height  with  a  fort  or 
redoubt,  in  nature  of  a  citadel,  adapted  to  a  garrison 
of  four  hundred  men,  and  capable,  as  far  as  possible, 
of  resisting,  by  its  construction,  a  coup  de  main,  and  of 
obliging  an  enemy,  not  in  a  condition  to  make  con- 
siderable sacrifices  of  men,  to  attack  it  in  form. 

This  redoubt,  with  a  battery  towards  the  river,  at 


1 64  Alexander  Hamilton 

the  point  F,  in  the  plan  you  have  as  furnished,  is  as 
much  as  can  be  immediately  undertaken  In  pro- 
cess of  time,  if  the  relative  situation  of  territorial 
boundary  remains  as  it  now  is,  it  will  probably  be 
necessary  to  extend  from  this  citadel,  in  different 
directions,  outworks,  which,  in  conjunction  with  the 
citadel,  will  require  a  thousand  men  for  their  defence. 
This  operation  may  be  a  successive  one. 

The  idea  of  resisting  a  siege  presupposes  a  work 
of  solid  materials,  as  well  as  of  regular  design.  You 
have  stated  that  brick  is  of  easy  fabrication  in  the 
vicinity;  wood,  of  an  elastic  quality,  it  is  presumed, 
may  also  be  procured  with  facility.  A  revetement 
of  brick,  with  an  interior  of  wood  and  earth  mingled, 
will  form  a  strong  fortress,  at  a  moderate  expense. 
Your  estimate  of  the  expense  of  a  water  battery, 
barracks,  and  magazine,  presents  a  total  of  $16,024; 
and  you  compute  that  a  similar  sum  will  suffice  for  a 
work  such  as  you  contemplate. 

I  have  informed  the  Secretary  at  War  that  you 
would  be  authorized  by  me  to  incur  an  expense  not 
exceeding  this  sum  for  the  purpose  in  question,  unless 
he  should  signify  his  negative  to  you  before  your 
departure.  But  while  this  sum  is  given  to  you  as  a 
limit,  it  is  believed  that  the  object  may  be  ac- 
complished for  less,  and  it  is  not  doubted  that  you 
will  exert  yourself  to  have  it  done  as  cheaply  as 
possible. 

In  this  place,  an  answer  to  your  inquiry  as  to  the 
proper  employment  of  the  soldiery,  very  fitly  occurs. 
Doubtless,  utility  and  usage  both  unite  to  recom- 
mend the  employment  of  the  soldiery  in  the  con- 


Hamilton  to  Wilkinson  165 

struction  of  works  as  far  as  may  be  practicable.  Not 
to  do  it  must  tend  to  an  augmentation  of  expense 
which  the  finances  of  no  country  can  bear;  besides 
that  it  is  to  forego  a  powerful  instrument  already 
prepared  for  accomplishing  the  object. 

I  do  not  overlook  the  obstacle  from  the  climate, 
which  you  mention  in  reference  to  our  Southern 
frontier.  But  for  a  great  part  of  the  year,  I  must 
hope  that  this  obstacle  is  not  formidable.  If  the 
heats  of  July  and  August,  and  the  sultry  damps  of 
September,  should  drive  us  during  that  period  to 
another  resource;  yet  the  residue  of  the  year,  it  is 
hoped,  will  permit  the  labor  of  the  troops  to  be 
employed  with  advantage.  I  am  well  informed 
that  on  the  sea-board  of  South  Carolina  and  Geor- 
gia, the  season  from  November  to  April,  inclusively, 
is  deemed  unexceptionable  for  the  employment  of 
troops  in  laborious  operations.  In  the  three  months 
which  have  been  mentioned,  it  may  be  requisite  to 
hire  the  labor  of  negroes,  but  even  then  there  may 
be  things  to  which  that  of  whites  can,  without  injury, 
be  applied. 

In  general  the  idea  must  be  to  construct  the  works 
by  the  labor  of  the  soldiery.  The  resort  to  a  different 
aid  must  be  by  way  of  exception,  to  be  used  as  little 
as  possible ;  circumstances  may  be  permitted  to  de- 
cide in  each  case  whether  to  continue  any  works  with 
the  aid  of  blacks,  during  the  hot  season,  or  to  suspend 
them  till  the  return  of  a  season  favorable  to  the 
exertion. 

You  will  find  in  my  letter  to  the  Secretary,  doubts 
as  to  the  permanent  maintenance  of  Fort  Stoddard. 


1 66  Alexander  Hamilton 

That  part  of  the  plan  which  conforms  to  the  disposi- 
tion you  have  made,  calls  for  your  careful  revision. 
You  will  ascertain  the  practicability  of  a  safe  and 
easy  interior  communication,  without  more  expense 
to  prepare  it  than  the  advantage  may  be  worth. 
There  is  an  intrinsically  strong  objection  to  the  keep- 
ing of  a  post  to  which  the  access  must  be  through  a 
foreign  territory. 

The  importance  of  securing  and  commanding  the 
confluence  of  the  rivers  Tennessee  and  Cumberland 
with  the  Ohio,  and  of  the  latter  with  the  Mississippi, 
has  been  duly  felt  by  you.  The  selection  of  a  spot 
the  most  eligible  for  a  strong  fort,  with  a  view  to  this 
object  and  the  kind  of  work  which  it  will  be  proper 
to  establish,  are  worthy  of  your  early  and  careful 
attention.  You  must,  however,  bear  in  mind  that  it 
is  to  be  successively  effected  by  the  labor  of  the 
troops.  A  garrison  of  five  hundred  men  may  be  the 
standard  of  the  dimensions.  You  will  report  to  me 
the  result  of  your  investigations  on  this  subject. 

In  a  permanent  arrangement  for  the  galleys,  water- 
men ought  to  be  engaged  for  the  mass  of  the  crew. 

Perhaps  some  soldiers  may  be  employed  as  auxilia- 
ries without  inconvenience,  and  with  saving.  A  pro- 
vision by  law  is  requisite  for  the  first  purpose.  You 
will  order  the  galleys  to  such  situation  as  you  judge 
best.  You  are  informed  that  the  artillery  you  have 
requested  for  Fort  Adams,  with  correspondent  am- 
munition and  stores,  have  been  ordered,  and  are  to 
embark  with  you  for  the  Mississippi.  It  will  be  my 
endeavor  that  such  other  artillery  as  may  be  neces- 
sary in  conformity  with  the  general  plan  shall  be 


Hamilton  to  Wilkinson  167 

forwarded  as  soon  as  possible.  As  to  the  artillery 
and  stores  now  at  the  several  Western  posts,  it  is 
your  province  to  have  them  disposed  of  as  you  deem 
most  advisable. 

I  have  desired  E.  Stevens,  Esq.,  to  procure  the 
mathematical  instruments  which  you  have  requested. 
A  regular  military  academy  appears  to  me  indis- 
pensable, and  will  command,  in  reference  to  the 
ensuing  session  of  Congress,  my  best  exertions  for  its 
establishment.  This  meets  your  suggestion  as  to 
mathematical  teachers. 

The  general  orders  issued  by  you,  which  you  have 
submitted  to  my  perusal,  have  been  considered. 
They  appear  to  me  proper.  But  as  I  intend  to  pre- 
pare, in  the  course  of  the  winter,  a  code  of  regulations 
which  will  embrace  their  objects,  I  forbear  to  give 
any  formal  sanction  to  them  at  this  time.  They  will 
remain  in  force  by  your  authority. 

Your  convention  with  the  Spanish  governor  re- 
specting deserters,  considered  as  a  temporary  ar- 
rangement, appears  to  me  a  measure  of  convenient 
operation.  Yet  it  is  beyond  my  powers  to  give  it  an 
authoritative  sanction,  and  I  have  concluded  not  to 
ask  one  of  the  government,  from  the  opinion  that  it  is 
best  it  should  retain  the  shape  of  a  mere  military 
arrangement  between  the  local  commanders.  In 
this  respect  I  do  not  hesitate  to  advise  that  it  may 
continue  to  be  executed. 

I  understand  that  arrangements  have  been  made 
which  will  satisfy  a  portion  of  the  arrears  of  pay  which 
you  state  to  be  due  to  the  troops  in  the  Western 
quarter.  The  subject  shall  not  cease  to  occupy  my 


1 68  Alexander  Hamilton 

anxious  attention.  It  is  impossible  to  feel  more 
strongly  than  I  do  the  extreme  impolicy  of  permitting 
large  arrears  to  accumulate.  The  affair  of  boats  to 
be  provided  and  kept  ready  for  the  transportation  of 
troops,  upon  an  emergency,  will  be  matter  of  future 
instruction.  Should  the  Spanish  governor  or  com- 
mander object  to  the  conveyance  of  your  artillery 
and  stores  to  their  destination,  you  will  make  a  formal 
and  peremptory  requisition  of  free  passage  on  the 
basis  of  treaty,  and  persevere  in  it  till  there  shall  be 
an  unequivocal  refusal,  when  you  will  send  back  the 
vessel  with  those  articles  to  Savannah  and  Georgia, 
addressed  to  the  commanding  officer  of  the  artillery 
of  the  United  States  at  that  place. 

Your  own  permanent  station  will  of  course  be  with 
your  reserve  force;  and  it  is  expected  that  you  will 
lose  no  time  in  repairing  to  it  as  early  as  may  be,  after 
the  coming  winter. 

In  the  meantime,  it  is  necessary  for  you  to  concen- 
trate all  the  upper  posts,  under  the  superintendence 
of  the  officer  next  in  seniority,  and  to  assign  to  him 
such  a  position  as  will  facilitate  a  communication 
with  me  for  the  transmission  of  returns  and  informa- 
tion ;  taking  care  to  let  him  understand  that  he  is  no 
more  than  your  organ — an  idea  to  which  I  shall  be 
scrupulously  attentive  on  my  part. 

The  policy  of  our  government  toward  Spain  con- 
tinues as  heretofore,  pacific  and  conciliatory.  You 
will  of  course  give  the  same  character  to  your  pro- 
ceedings, as  far  as  may  depend  upon  you. 

By  a  communication  from  the  Secretary  at  War, 
some  time  since  received,  it  is  indicated  that  the  man- 


Hamilton  to  Wilkinson  169 

agement  of  Indian  affairs  is  exclusively  reserved  to 
the  superintendents  and  their  agents;  the  military 
officers  to  be  auxiliary,  but  only  so  as  to  imply  no 
control  of  military  operations.  It  will  be  expedient, 
nevertheless,  that  all  issues  to  Indians  at  military 
posts  should  appear,  in  returns  from  them,  not  con- 
founded with  the  issues  for  the  military,  but  distinct. 
You  will,  as  far  as  may  depend  upon  you,  give  effect 
to  this  system  with  a  spirit  of  accommodation. 
Emergencies  really  extraordinary  must  always  be 
exceptions  to  a  general  plan.  These  must  be  left  to 
the  discretion  of  a  military  commander,  at  his  peril. 

I  conform  in  an  especial  manner  to  the  views  of  the 
administration,  and  to  the  deep  impressions  of  my 
own  mind,  derived  from  a  full  consideration  of  the 
comparative  resources  and  necessities  of  our  country, 
when  I  recommend  to  you  in  every  arrangement  a 
careful  regard  to  economy.  Without  it,  our  govern- 
ment cannot  maintain  the  institutions  or  pursue  the 
measures  which  are  essential  to  its  security  and  wel- 
fare. Without  it,  the  condition  of  its  military  force 
can  neither  be  respectable  nor  satisfactory.  The  in- 
terest of  the  army,  as  a  corps,  concurs  with  that  of 
the  public  at  large  to  enforce  the  practice  of  economy 
as  a  primary  duty.  I  entertain  a  full  confidence  that 
your  conduct  will  always  evince  a  due  sense  of  its 
importance,  and  that  it  will  not  cease  to  be  your 
study,  in  this  and  every  other  matter,  to  deserve  the 
confidence  and  estimation  of  the  government. 

In  regard  to  the  citizens  of  the  Western  country,  as 
far  as  your  agency  may  be  concerned,  you  will  do 
every  thing  to  foster  good- will  and  attachment  toward 


170  Alexander  Hamilton 

the  Government  of  the  United  States.  A  firm  and 
cordial  union  is  certainly  the  vital  interest  of  every 
part  of  our  country. 


HAMILTON   TO    COL.    SMITH  x 

(Private.) 

NEW  YORK,  November  n,  1799. 

SIR: — Herewith  is  an  official  answer  to  your  letter. 
I  regret  the  intimation  with  which  it  is  closed,  to 
which,  however,  I  can  and  must  annex  no  precise 
meaning.  I  will  only  observe  upon  it,  that  in  no 
sense  can  the  affair  be  viewed  as  a  personal  injury, 
or  be  proper  for  the  manifestation  of  personal  re- 
sentment in  any  form.  Any  one  who  should  give 
you  a  different  opinion  can  hardly  be  your  friend. 
Such  an  opinion,  if  followed,  could  be  productive 
of  no  possible  advantage,  and  would  be  attended  in 
various  ways  with  great  inconvenience  to  you. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  November  12,  1799. 

SIR: — I  am  this  moment  honored  with  your  letter 
of  the  8th  instant.  Considering  the  nature  of  my 
agency  in  respect  to  the  subject  of  it,  I  must  under- 
stand the  remarks  which  are  made  as  not  applying 
to  what  I  have  done,  but  to  the  previous  measures 
of  General  Wilkinson.  It  is  known  to  you  that  the 
project  was  adopted  and  acted  upon  long  before  I 
was  in  command;  that,  agreeing  in  opinion  with 

1  Col.  Win.  Smith,  son-in-law  of  John  Adams  and  a  strong  friend  of 
Hamilton. 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  171 

General  Wilkinson  as  to  the  expediency  of  the 
measure,  I  submitted  it  to  the  Commander-in- 
Chief,  whose  concurrence  it  received;  that,  in  a 
written  communication  to  you,  I  supported  the  pro- 
priety of  completing  the  work  on  a  specified  scale; 
that  afterwards,  in  conversation,  it  was  expressed 
by  you  to  be  your  impression  that,  situated  as  the 
matter  was,  it  must  proceed,  unless  the  further  ex- 
pense necessary  should,  upon  estimate,  appear  to  be 
very  considerable. 

The  addition  of  16,000  dollars  on  the  aggregate 
of  32,000,  for  establishing  an  important  barrier  post, 
did  not  strike  me  as  a  large,  but  as  a  very  moderate, 
expenditure;  such  as  would  not  contravene  the 
most  scrupulous  ideas  of  economy  in  national  affairs. 

Hence  I  presumed  on  the  ready  sanction  of  the 
Executive;  yet  did  I  not  suffer  this  presumption  to 
engage  me  in  any  definitive  act,  but  confined  myself  to 
giving  promissory  authority,  subject  to  the  eventual 
control  of  the  President  through  you  as  his  organ. 

Even  this  much  I  should  not  have  done,  had  it 
not  been  for  the  previous  circumstances,  and  had 
there  not  been  a  pressure  as  to  time,  owing  to  the 
necessity  of  expediting  General  Wilkinson,  for  which 
purpose  the  delivery  of  my  instructions  was  an  es- 
sential preliminary.  Considering  the  circumstances, 
I  cannot  but  believe  that  I  have  acted  with  all  proper 
delicacy  and  caution;  as,  on  the  other  hand,  it  is 
evident  that  I  have  in  no  shape  infringed  the  general 
principle  which  is  advanced  in  your  letter. 

To  this  principle,  as  it  respects  permanent  forti- 
fication, I  subscribe  without  reserve;  and  I  agree 


172  Alexander  Hamilton 

that  it  is  always  right  for  military  commanders, 
when  the  exigencies  of  service  do  not  command  the 
contrary,  to  forbear  measures  involving  considerable 
expense,  till  they  shall  have  been  considered  and 
sanctioned  by  the  Executive.  It  seems  to  me,  too, 
that  in  my  practice  the  rule  has  been  observed  even 
beyond  its  terms  and  spirit ;  but  I  cannot  adopt  the 
opinion,  that  every  measure,  in  all  its  circumstances, 
which  may  involve  considerable  expenditure,  should 
be  submitted  through  the  Secretary  of  the  appro- 
priate department  to  the  President  for  his  approval, 
and  that,  without  such  approval,  formally  and  ex- 
plicitly announced,  no  act  leading  to  its  execution 
should  take  place. 

In  the  course  of  military  operations,  measures 
which  involve  very  great  expense  are  frequently  in- 
dispensable, without  incurring  the  delay  of  resorting 
to  the  Executive  as  a  preliminary. 

A  precise  rule  for  distinguishing  the  different 
cases  is  impracticable;  it  must  be  matter  of  sound 
discretion  and  of  fair  confidence  on  all  sides. 

The  disbursements,  finally,  must  no  doubt  be  regu- 
lated by  the  laws  of  appropriation;  but  provisory 
measures  will  often  be  unavoidable,  and  confidence 
must  sometimes  be  reposed  in  an  after  legislative 
sanction  and  provision. 

This  has  been  the  course  in  times  past,  and  it 
must  always  be  the  case.  A  different  plan  will 
arrest  and  disorder  all  the  wheels  of  public  service. 
The  theory  of  no  system  can  be  invariably  pursued 
with  liberal  strictness. 

I  commit  myself  without  hesitation  to  the  con- 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  173 

sequences  of  this  opinion,  because,  as  far  as  I  am 
concerned,  I  would  rather  be  responsible  on  proper 
occasions  for  formal  deviations,  than  for  a  feeble, 
insufficient,  and  unprosperous  course  of  public  busi- 
ness, proceeding  from  an  over-scrupulous  adherence 
to  general  rules ;  and  I  have  no  doubt  that  a  different 
spirit  will  ever  be  found  in  experience  injurious 
equally  to  the  interests  of  the  state  and  to  the  re- 
putation and  success  of  the  persons  whom  it  may 
govern.  I  understand  that  such  a  progress  has  been 
made  in  the  business  as  that  the  plan  cannot  now  be 
relinquished  without  loss  of  the  fruits  of  past  ex- 
pense; but  I  am  not  so  well  informed  on  this  point 
as  to  be  able  to  present  it  as  a  positive  ground  of 
determination. 

I  adhere,  however,  without  hesitation,  to  the 
opinion  that  it  is  expedient  to  pursue  the  plan  upon 
the  scale  which  has  been  contemplated.  It  is  very 
true  that  this  fort  could  not  be  expected  to  interrupt 
a  great  invading  force ;  but  it  would  be  an  obstacle 
to  the  enterprises  of  such  a  force  as  now  exists,  or 
is  likely  to  be  found  in  the  quarter  in  question. 

It  would  give  additional  security  to  the  troops, 
who,  with  the  views  you  mention,  must  be  stationed 
within  the  scene.  It  would  also  be  more  impressive 
on  the  Indians;  and  the  difference  between  the  ex- 
pense of  the  fort  intended  and  that  which  you  indi- 
cate, would  be  inconsiderable.  I  shall  take  care  that 
such  a  communication  be  made  to  General  Wilkin- 
son, as  that  there  may  be  no  danger  in  future  of  his 
undertaking  a  permanent  fortification  without  the 
previous  approbation  of  the  Executive. 


174  Alexander  Hamilton 

But,  if  it  is  thought  proper  to  arrest  the  execution 
of  the  plan  communicated,  I  must  beg  that  you  will 
address  your  orders  immediately  to  General  Wilkin- 
son, since  it  is  probable  that  they  would  not  reach 
him  in  time,  if  they  are  to  pass  through  me. 
With  great  respect  and  esteem, 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  sir, 

Your  obedient  servant,  etc. 


HAMILTON   TO    WASHINGTON 

NEW  YORK,  November  18,  1799. 

SIR: — I  have  been  duly  honored  with  your  letters 
of  the  26th  and  27th  of  October. 

General  Pinckney  happening  to  be  at  my  house 
when  they  were  received,  I  communicated  them  to 
him,  together  with  such  other  letters  as  had  come  to 
hand  relating  to  the  same  subject;  and  I  have  since 
furnished  him  with  the  subsequent  information 
transmitted  to  me,  in  order  that  he  might  take  the 
proper  measures  in  whatever  might  require  his  in- 
terposition. This  would  principally  be  to  order  the 
tenth  regiment  to  Carlisle. 

It  is  my  duty,  in  compliance  with  your  inquiry 
concerning  the  delay  of  payment  of  the  troops,  to 
enter  into  a  free  explanation.  The  complaints  of 
which  you  have  heard,  have  certainly  existed;  they 
have  existed  in  the  Northern  as  well  as  in  the 
Southern  quarter,  and  the  painful  circumstance  is, 
that  they  have  been  well  founded.  There  has,  no 
doubt,  been  a  great  and  a  very  unfortunate  delay, 


Hamilton  to  Washington  175 

which  has  been  a  pretext  for,  if  not  a  cause  of,  de- 
sertion, which  has  made  ill  impressions  on  the  minds 
of  the  troops,  and  has  occasioned  much  embarrass- 
ment to  the  officers. 

The  history  of  the  course  of  the  business  will  best 
unfold  the  causes  of  the  delay. 

Early  after  the  recruiting  service  was  in  train,  I 
caused  to  be  prepared  and  transmitted  to  the  several 
regiments,  the  forms  of  muster-  and  pay-rolls.  If 
my  information  be  right,  muster  and  pay-rolls  were 
made  out  according  to  these  forms,  and  forwarded 
first  to  the  Department  of  War,  afterwards  to  the 
office  of  the  paymaster-general. 

It  has  since  appeared  that  forms  for  muster-  and 
pay-rolls  had  been  previously  established  by  the  De- 
partment of  War,  but  these  forms  were  never  sent  to 
me,  nor  otherwise  communicated  to  the  additional 
regiments,  till  some  time  after  the  arrival  of  the 
paymaster-general  at  Philadelphia.  A  compliance 
with  them  on  the  part  of  the  distant  regiments,  the 
officers  of  which,  for  the  purpose  of  recruiting,  were 
dispersed  over  extensive  regions,  would,  of  course, 
involve  a  very  distressing  delay,  in  addition  to  that 
which  unavoidably  attended  the  mustering  of  the 
troops,  and  the  preparation  of  the  rolls  on  the  plan 
which  I  had  prescribed;  yet  for  some  time  a  com- 
pliance with  these  new  forms  seems  to  have  been 
expected  as  a  preliminary  to  the  transmission  of  the 
money. 

But  in  consequence  of  very  importunate  repre- 
sentations from  me,  and  it  being  admitted  that  the 
different  rolls  corresponded  in  substantial  points,  I 


176  Alexander  Hamilton 

was  given  to  understand  by  the  paymaster-general, 
that  as  to  past  dues,  the  new  forms  would  not  be  in- 
sisted upon,  but  that  the  money  would  be  sent  with- 
out waiting  for  them. 

Difficulties,  however,  about  modes  of  remitting  the 
money,  which,  it  is  believed,  had  before  operated  in 
producing  delay,  continued  to  occasion  it;  and  to 
this  moment  the  three  most  northern  and  the  two 
most  southern  regiments  remain  unsupplied. 

To  call  every  regimental  paymaster  to  the  seat 
of  government  as  often  as  money  is  to  be  paid,  is 
inadmissible  on  the  score  of  delay,  as  well  as  of  ex- 
pense. To  send  them  the  money  by  post,  must  in- 
volve the  double  risk  of  loss  in  the  post-office,  and 
loss  by  a  fraudulent  concealment  of  the  receipt  of  it. 
To  send  it  to  intermediate  public  agents,  must  be 
attended  with  the  same  risk,  though  in  a  less  de- 
gree. The  paymaster-general,  in  order  to  discharge 
himself  at  the  Treasury,  is  obliged  to  produce 
vouchers  in  certain  prescribed  forms,  which  he  has 
been  (as  he  states)  in  the  habit  of  obtaining  before 
he  parted  with  any  money  out  of  his  hands;  and 
he  appeared  to  be  fearful  of  a  deviation  from  this 
course. 

The  truth  is,  that  these  difficulties  being  inherent 
in  the  nature  of  the  thing,  they  ought,  for  this  very 
reason,  as  I  conceive,  to  have  been  overcome.  Simi- 
lar ones  occur  in  all  the  pecuniary  operations  of 
the  government,  and  it  has  been  found  indispensable 
to  surmount  them  by  expedients.  The  same  expedi- 
ents, which  are  familiar  in  other  cases,  would  have 
answered  in  the  one  under  consideration. 


Hamilton  to  Washington  177 

In  my  opinion,  the  paymaster-general  would  have 
done  right  not  to  have  been  deterred  by  the  ad- 
ditional responsibility  which  might  have  attended  the 
employment  of  the  usual  expedients.  In  my  opin- 
ion, if  peculiar  caution  was  incumbent  upon  him  as 
a  subordinate  officer,  it  was  to  have  been  expected 
that  the  Secretary  at  War,  in  concert  with  the 
Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  would  have  interposed 
to  remove  the  impediment  by  sanctioning  a  course 
which  was  unavoidable. 

It  is  not  my  fault  that  the  obstacles  have  not  been 
surmounted.  Aware  that,  in  the  first  stages  of  the 
raising  of  new  corps,  (of  which  most  of  the  officers 
as  well  as  the  men  were  unacquainted  with  service,) 
where  the  officers,  for  the  purpose  of  recruiting,  were 
dispersed  over  extensive  districts,  delay  and  diffi- 
culty would  unavoidably  attend  the  preparation  of 
muster-  and  pay-rolls  in  strict  form;  strongly  im- 
pressed with  the  idea  that  it  was  of  great  import- 
ance, in  the  first  instance,  to  inspire  the  troops  with 
favorable  ideas  of  the  justice  and  attention  of  the 
government ;  and  that  it  would  be  very  inexpedient 
to  have  to  assign  to  the  non-commissioned  officers 
and  privates  excuses  for  the  delay  of  their  dues  on 
the  score  of  want  of  formal  documents,  which  it  did 
not  lie  with  them  to  prepare,  I  pressed  the  Secretary 
at  War  and  the  paymaster-general  for  advances  of 
money  to  the  several  regiments,  in  anticipation  of 
those  documents,  upon  estimates  of  which  I  fur- 
nished the  data.  I  thought  the  temporary  departure 
from  ordinary  rules,  and  the  small  addition  of  risk, 
from  dispensing  with  the  usual  preliminary  checks, 


VOL.  vii.— ia. 


178  Alexander  Hamilton 

were  less  evils  than  those  which  were  inseparable 
from  any  considerable  procrastination  of  payment. 

But  my  efforts  were  not  successful.  Expectations, 
which,  in  consequence  of  my  representations,  were 
given  to  me  by  the  paymaster-general,  and  which 
were  by  me  given  to  the  commandants  of  regiments, 
were  not  fulfilled.  Disappointment  and  dissatis- 
faction have,  of  course,  ensued. 

It  is  but  candor  for  me  to  mention  that,  while 
Secretary  of  the  Treasury  I  had  knowledge  of  the 
forms  which  had  been  prescribed ;  but  I  had  entirely 
forgotten  the  circumstance.  And  it  is  self-evident 
that  all  regulations  prescribed  by  the  Department 
of  War,  for  observance  in  an  army,  ought  to  be 
communicated  from  that  department,  either  to  the 
military  commander  or  to  the  chief  of  the  par- 
ticular branch  of  service  to  which  they  relate — and 
that  it  is  not  incumbent  upon  the  military  com- 
mander to  make  inquiry  of  the  Department  of  War 
for  them;  I  therefore  did  what  was  natural  in  the 
case — I  prescribed  forms  where  I  did  not  know  that 
any  had  been  previously  established  by  superior 
authority. 

It  is  very  probable  that  the  necessity  of  trans- 
mitting these  forms  did  not  occur  to  the  Secretary 
at  War.  Or  he  may  have  considered  it  as  the  pro- 
vince of  the  paymaster-general  to  do  it;  but  this 
officer  being  with  the  Western  army,  a  very  great 
delay  could  not  fail  to  attend  the  transmission  of 
them  by  him.  The  truth  is,  that  a  want  of  suf- 
ficient organization  in  this  particular,  as  in  others, 
occasioned  an  omission. 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  179 

The  only  material  remark  in  respect  to  it  is,  that 
the  omission  having  happened,  it  was  a  decisive 
reason  for  not  insisting  upon  the  forms  in  question 
as  a  preliminary  to  payment. 

Upon  the  whole  (since  I  have  not  understood  that 
there  was  any  deficiency  of  money),  I  am  led  to 
conclude  that  unwillingness  to  incur  extraordinary 
responsibility,  by  a  deviation  from  general  rules,  has 
been  a  principal  cause  of  the  very  inconvenient 
delay  which  has  been  experienced.  The  mode  of 
proceeding  has  certainly  not  corresponded  with  my 
ideas  of  propriety  and  expediency ;  yet  I  do  not  pre- 
sume to  expect  that  my  ideas  should  be  a  standard 
for  the  conduct  of  others.  And  I  am  certainly  very 
far  from  imagining  that  any  motive  more  exception- 
able than  the  one  I  have  suggested  has  had  the  least 
influence  in  the  affair.  The  paymaster  is,  no  doubt, 
shielded  by  his  instructions. 

I  trust  that  things  are  now  in  a  train  for  a  more 
satisfactory  course  in  future. 

With  perfect  respect  and  attachment,  etc. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  November  23,  1799. 

SIR: — The  near  approach  of  a  session  of  Congress 
will  naturally  lead  you  to  the  consideration  of  such 
measures  for  the  improvement  of  our  military  sys- 
tem as  may  require  legislative  sanction. 

Under  this  impression,  I  am  induced  now  to  pre- 
sent to  you  some  objects  which  appear  to  me  very 


180  Alexander  Hamilton 

interesting,  and  shall  take  the  liberty  to  add  here- 
after such  others  as  shall  have  occurred. 

One  which  I  have  always  thought  of  primary  im- 
portance, is  a  military  academy.  This  object  has 
repeatedly  engaged  the  favorable  attention  of  the 
administration,  and  some  steps  toward  it  have  been 
taken.  But  these,  as  yet,  are  very  inadequate.  A 
more  perfect  plan  is  in  a  high  degree  desirable. 

No  sentiment  is  more  just  than  this,  that  in  propor- 
tion as  the  circumstances  and  policy  of  a  country  for- 
bid a  large  military  establishment,  it  is  important  that 
as  much  perfection  as  possible  should  be  given  to 
that  which  may  at  any  time  exist.  Since  it  is  agreed 
that  we  are  not  to  keep  on  foot  numerous  forces 
instructed  and  disciplined,  military  science  in  its 
various  branches  ought  to  be  cultivated  with  peculiar 
care,  in  proper  nurseries,  so  that  there  may  always 
exist  a  sufficient  body  of  it  ready  to  be  imparted 
and  diffused,  and  a  competent  number  of  persons 
qualified  to  act  as  instructors  to  the  additional  troops 
which  events  may  successively  require  to  be  raised. 

This  will  be  to  substitute  the  elements  of  an  army 
to  the  thing  itself,  and  it  will  greatly  tend  to  en- 
able the  government  to  dispense  with  a  large  body 
of  standing  forces,  from  the  facility  which  it  will 
give  of  forming  officers  and  soldiers  promptly  upon 
emergencies. 

No  sound  mind  can  doubt  the  essentiality  of  mili- 
tary science  in  time  of  war,  any  more  than  the  moral 
certainty  that  the  most  pacific  policy  on  the  part  of 
a  government  will  not  preserve  it  from  being  en- 
gaged in  war  more  or  less  frequently. 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  181 

To  avoid  great  evils,  it  must  either  have  a  respecta- 
ble force  prepared  for  service,  or  the  means  of  pre- 
paring such  a  force  with  expedition.  The  latter, 
most  agreeable  to  the  genius  of  our  government  and 
nation,  is  the  object  of  a  military  academy. 

I  propose  that  this  academy  shall  consist  of 
five  schools — one  to  be  called  "The  Fundamental 
School";  another,  "The  School  of  Engineers  and 
Artillerists";  another,  "The  School  of  Cavalry"; 
another,  "The  School  of  Infantry";  and  a  fifth, 
"The  School  of  the  Navy";  and  of  the  following 
offices  and  persons: 

A  director-general,  to  superintend  the  whole  institution. 

A  director  of  the  Fundamental  School. 

A  director  of  the  School  of  Engineers  and  Artillerists. 

A  director  of  the  School  of  Cavalry. 

A  director  of  the  School  of  Infantry. 

A  director  of  the  School  of  the  Navy. 

Six  professors  of  mathematics. 

Three  professors  of  natural  philosophy. 

One  professor  of  chemistry. 

Two  architects. 

Two  drawing  masters. 

A  riding  master. 

A  fencing  master. 

To  be  thus  distributed  among  the  several  schools. 

To  the  Fundamental  School: 
A  director, 

Four  professors  of  mathematics, 
One  professor  of  natural  philosophy, 
One  drawing  master. 


1 82  Alexander  Hamilton 

To  the  School  of  Engineers  and  Artillerists : 

A  director, 

A  professor  of  mathematics, 

A  professor  of  natural  philosophy, 

A  professor  of  chemistry, 

An  architect, 

A  drawing  master. 
To  the  School  of  Cavalry: 

A  director, 

A  riding  master, 

A  fencing  master. 
To  the  School  of  Infantry: 

A  director. 
To  the  School  of  the  Navy: 

A  director, 

A  professor  of  mathematics, 

A  professor  of  natural  philosophy, 

An  architect. 
In  the  Fundamental  School  to  be  taught : 

Arithmetic,  algebra,  geometry,  the  laws  of  motion, 
mechanics,  geography,  topography,  and  surveying, 
designing  of  structures  and  landscapes. 

The  principles  of  tactics. 
In  the  School  of  Engineers  and  Artillerists  to  be  taught : 

Fluxions,  conic  sections,  hydraulics,  hydrostatics, 
and  pneumatics. 

The  theory  and  practice  of  gunnery. 

Fortifications,  including  sapping  and  mining,  and  the 
attack  and  defence  of  places. 

Chemistry,  especially  mineralogy. 

The  fabrication  of  cannon  and  other  arms. 

The  principles  of  construction,  with  particular  refer- 
ence to  aqueducts,  canals,  and  bridges. 

The  composition  of  artificial  fires. 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  183 

In  the  School  of  Cavalry : 
The  tactics  and  police  of  cavalry,  equitation,  the  use 

of  the  small-  and  broad-sword. 
In  the  School  of  Infantry : 

The  tactics  and  police  of  the  infantry. 
In  the  School  of  the  Navy : 
Spherics,  astronomy,  navigation,  with  the  doctrines 

of  the  tides. 
Naval  architecture. 

The  director-general  and  the  other  directors  to 
be  officers  of  the  army  and  navy,  conforming  to  the 
nature  of  each  school. 

These  schools  to  be  provided  with  proper  ap- 
paratus and  instruments  for  philosophical  and 
chemical  experiments,  for  astronomical  and  nautical 
observations,  and  for  surveying,  and  for  such  other 
processes  as  are  requisite  to  the  illustration  of  the 
several  topics  of  instruction. 

The  cadets  of  the  army,  and  young  persons  who 
are  destined  for  military  and  naval  service,  ought  to 
study  for  two  years  in  the  Fundamental  School ;  and 
if  destined  for  the  corps  of  engineers  and  artillerists, 
or  for  the  navy,  two  years  more  in  the  appropriate 
school;  but  persons  who,  by  previous  instruction 
elsewhere,  may  have  been  acquainted  with  some  or 
all  of  the  branches  taught  in  the  Fundamental  School, 
may,  after  due  examination  by  the  professors  of 
that  school,  be  either  received  there  for  a  shorter 
term,  or  pass  immediately  to  one  of  the  other 
schools,  according  to  the  nature  and  extent  of  their 
acquisitions. 

In  addition  to  these,  detachments  of  officers  and 


184  Alexander  Hamilton 

non-commissioned  officers  of  the  army  ought  to 
attend  the  academy  in  rotation,  for  the  purposes  of 
instruction  and  exercise,  according  to  the  nature  of 
the  corps  to  which  they  respectively  belong. 

It  would  be  a  wise  addition  to  the  system  if  the 
government  would  always  have  such  a  number  of 
sergeants,  in  addition  to  those  belonging  to  the 
regiments  of  the  establishment,  as  would  suffice 
with  them  for  an  army  of  50,000  men. 

The  site  of  the  academy  ought  to  be  upon  a  navi- 
gable water. 

For  this  purpose,  a  piece  of  ground  ought  to  be 
purchased  by  the  government,  of  dimensions  suf- 
ficient for  experiments  in  gunnery — that  is,  not  less 
than  twelve  hundred  yards  in  length,  and  four  hun- 
dred yards  in  breadth.  The  situation  upon  a  navi- 
gable water  is  requisite  to  admit  of  exemplifications 
of  naval  construction  and  exercises. 

It  would  also  tend  greatly  to  the  perfection  of  the 
plan  if  a  position  for  the  academy  could  be  obtained, 
suited  to  foundries  of  cannon  and  manufactories 
of  small -arms.  The  pupils  could  here  acquire  the 
knowledge  of  the  arts,  and  the  detachments  of 
troops  could  be  made  useful  in  the  prosecution  of 
the  works. 

Barracks  and  other  proper  buildings  must  be 
erected  for  the  accommodation  of  the  directors, 
professors,  and  students,  and  for  laboratories  and 
other  works  to  be  carried  on. 

It  is  proposed  by  the  foregoing  plan  that  the 
school  of  engineers  and  artillerists  shall  be  united. 
The  studies  relative  to  these  two  branches  of  service 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  185 

run  into  each  other  so  much  that  they  may  with 
convenience  be  pursued  in  the  same  school. 

Yet  it  is  conceived  that  the  entire  union  of  the 
officers  of  both  in  one  corps,  as  in  our  present  estab- 
lishment, is  not  advisable.  The  art  of  fortification, 
and  the  service  of  artillery,  though  touching  each 
other  in  many  points,  are,  in  the  main,  distinct 
branches,  and  each  so  comprehensive  that  this 
separation  is  essential  to  perfection  in  either. 

This  has  been  ascertained  by  experience.  It  is 
understood  that  one  or  more  governments  of  Europe, 
particularly  attentive  to  the  military  art,  have  es- 
sayed the  union  of  the  two  corps,  induced  to  it  by 
their  mutual  relations  in  certain  respects,  and  by  the 
desire  of  insuring  harmony  in  the  service,  and  that 
the  result  of  the  experiment  has  led  to  a  renuncia- 
tion of  the  plan,  as  being  productive  of  more  dis- 
advantages than  advantages. 

Influenced,  as  well  by  this  experience  in  other 
countries  as  by  my  own  observations  and  reflections, 
I  beg  leave  to  suggest  for  consideration  a  new  ar- 
rangement on  the  subject,  to  be  submitted,  if  ap- 
proved, to  the  legislative  body. 

Let  the  corps  of  engineers  and  artillerists  be 
placed  under  one  head,  that  head  to  be  a  general 
officer;  but  let  the  other  officers  be  separated,  and 
form  a  distinct  corps. 

A  regiment  of  engineer  officers,  and  two  of  artil- 
lery officers,  will  form  a  due  proportion  in  the  scale  of 
our  military  establishment.  If  deemed  expedient 
to  increase  the  total  number  of  officers,  the  object 
may  be  effected  by  suppressing  two  of  the  battalions 


1 86  Alexander  Hamilton 

of  the  corps,  as  now  organized,  increasing  the  num- 
ber of  non-commissioned  officers  and  privates  in  the 
remaining  battalions,  so  as  to  continue  the  present 
total,  and  transferring  the  surplus  officers,  with  due 
selection  to  the  regiment  of  engineers,  to  be  com- 
posed of  two  battalions. 

Instead  of  the  artificers  at  present  forming  a  part 
of  each  company,  let  there  be  a  corps  of  miners  and 
artificers,  consisting  of  four  companies,  one  company 
of  armorers  and  smiths,  one  of  wheelwrights  and 
carpenters,  one  of  masons,  and  one  of  miners.  This 
corps  to  be  a  portion  of  the  corps  of  engineers  and 
artillerists  under  the  command  of  its  chief.  The 
officers  to  be  taken  from  the  regiment  of  engineers 
and  artillerists  at  his  discretion,  continuing,  never- 
theless, to  rank  and  rise  in  the  corps  from  which  they 
may  be  taken,  but  the  President  to  be  empowered, 
if  he  thinks  proper,  to  appoint  others  to  their  places 
in  the  regiment  from  which  they  shall  be  detached. 
The  union  of  these  different  corps  under  one  chief, 
is  intended  to  promote  a  spirit  of  harmony  and  co- 
operation, while  the  separation  of  the  other  officers 
is  designed  to  favor  a  more  profound  and  accurate 
knowledge  of  each  branch. 

It  will  no  doubt  be  observed,  that  though  pro- 
vision should  be  made  by  the  law  for  the  proposed  es- 
tablishment in  its  full  latitude,  yet  it  may  be  left  in 
the  discretion  of  the  President  to  appoint  only  so 
many  of  the  professors  as  experience  shall  show  to 
be  necessary. 

With  great  respect  and  esteem,  etc. 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  187 

HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  November  30,  1799. 

SIR: — The  preparation  of  a  good  system  for  the 
tactics  and  police  of  the  different  portions  of  our 
army  is  probably  the  most  valuable  service  which  it 
may  be  in  my  power  to  render  the  United  States  in 
my  present  station,  and  there  are  urgent  reasons 
why  this  should  be  accomplished  in  the  course  of 
the  present  winter. 

To  do  it  at  all  would  in  every  situation  require  the 
aid  of  others;  since  I  do  not  pretend,  myself,  to 
understand  in  detail  all  the  branches  of  service.  To 
do  it  within  the  time  proposed,  or  rather  within 
any  period  not  manifestly  longer  than  it  would  be 
prudent  to  delay,  must  render  a  subdivision  indis- 
pensable, were  I  competent  to  the  whole. 

I  have  accordingly  thought  of  this  distribution  of 
the  subject:  i.  To  occupy  myself  with  the  tactics 
of  the  infantry.  2.  To  confide  to  General  Pinckney, 
with  the  aid  of  Brigadier-General  Washington, 
Colonel  Watts,  and  Lieutenant  Walbach,  or  such  of 
them  as  he  may  choose,  the  tactics  of  the  cavalry. 
3.  To  employ  Majors  Toussard  and  Hoops  in  framing 
regulations  for  the  exercise  and  police  of  the  artil- 
lery. And,  lastly,  to  charge  the  adjutant-general, 
aided  by  another  officer,  to  be  selected  by  him,  with 
the  regulations  for  the  police  of  troops  in  camp, 
quarters,  and  garrisons. 

The  labors  of  these  different  persons  will  after- 
wards undergo  revision  for  adoption  or  correction, 
and  then  will  be  transmitted  to  you  for  your  con- 
sideration, and  the  determination  of  the  President. 


1 88  Alexander  Hamilton 

But  as  this  service  will  occasion  constant  and 
laborious  occupation  to  the  persons  who  will  be 
employed,  it  is  just  and  agreeable  to  usage  to  allow 
a  special  compensation.  This,  too,  will  be  expected 
by  them,  and  is  essential  to  a  cheerful  and  zealous 
execution  of  the  duty.  An  allowance  per  diem  not 
less  than  one  dollar  nor  more  than  two  will  suffice. 
It  may  vary  in  reference  to  rank.  It,  of  course,  will 
not  be  expected  to  extend  to  General  Pinckney,  the 
adjutant-general,  or  myself. 

I  entreat  a  speedy  decision  and  the  communica- 
tion of  it. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

PHILADELPHIA,  December,  1799. 

SIR: — Pursuant  to  an  instruction  some  time  since 
received  from  you,  I  have  now  the  honor  to  offer  to 
your  consideration  a  new  plan  for  the  uniform  of  the 
army. 

You  are  too  sensible  of  the  influence  of  good  ap- 
pearance in  point  of  dress  and  equipment  upon  the 
spirit  and  temper  of  an  army,  to  make  it  necessary  to 
illustrate  its  importance. 

The  present  uniform  is  materially  defective  in  this 
respect.  The  plan  now  offered  has  been  digested 
with  a  careful  eye  to  the  advantages  of  good  appear- 
ance, without  departing  improperly  from  considera- 
tions of  simplicity  and  economy. 

It  is  very  desirable  that  there  should  be  an  early 
decision  upon  it,  as  a  great  number  of  officers  sus- 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  189 

pend  the  procuring  of  new  uniforms  in  expectation 
of  a  change ;  and  if  obliged  by  delay  to  provide  ac- 
cording to  the  present  standard,  would  be  exposed 
in  case  of  alteration  to  an  additional  expense,  which, 
to  many  of  them,  would  be  burthensome. 

As  to  any  article  not  provided  for  by  law,  an 
expectation  may  be  signified  that  it  will  be  provided 
at  the  expense  of  the  troops  themselves.  It  is  be- 
lieved that  this  idea  will  meet  with  no  impediment. 

I  send  you  an  estimate  of  clothing  necessary  for 
the  future  year's  supply  of  the  troops  under  my  im- 
mediate command.  If  materials  for  coats,  vests, 
and  overalls  could  be  soon  put  into  the  hands  of 
the  different  corps,  they  might  be  made  up  during  the 
winter  quarters,  which  would  save  expense  to  the 
public,  and  afford  an  opportunity  of  having  the  arti- 
cles much  better  fitted  to  the  wearers  of  them. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

PHILADELPHIA,  December,  1799. 

SIR: — I  have  heretofore  submitted  to  you  a  scale 
for  the  allowance  of  servants  to  the  different  grades 
of  officers,  with  some  supplementary  ideas.  I  beg 
leave  to  add  another  suggestion  in  relation  to  this 
subject. 

The  detaching  from  their  corps  soldiers  as  servants 
to  the  various  officers  of  the  general  staff,  is  produc- 
tive of  material  inconvenience,  by  withdrawing  alto- 
gether from  military  service  a  considerable  number 
of  persons  ;  and  occasions  dissatisfaction  to  the 


Alexander  Hamilton 


commandants  of  corps  who  never  see  their  men  re- 
moved without  uneasiness,  and  are  sometimes  much 
disgusted  by  the  selection  of  those  whom  they  are 
anxious  to  retain.  There  is  no  doubt  that  it  would 
operate  beneficially,  if,  after  fixing  the  number  of 
servants  to  which  the  several  characters  of  the  gen- 
eral staff  should  be  entitled,  they  were  to  be  allowed 
an  equivalent  in  money  regulated  by  the  cost  of  a 
soldier  to  the  public,  and  were  to  be  required  to  pro- 
vide their  own  servants.  Penalties  may  secure  the 
faithful  execution  of  this  arrangement,  which,  from 
the  force  of  circumstances,  would  be  very  liable  to 
abuse. 


HAMILTON   TO   GENERAL    PINCKNEY 

PHILADELPHIA,  December,  1799. 

SIR: — The  death  of  our  beloved  Commander-in- 
Chief  x  was  known  to  you  before  it  was  to  me.  I  can 
be  at  no  loss  to  anticipate  what  have  been  your 
feelings.  I  need  not  tell  you  what  have  been  mine. 
Perhaps  no  friend  of  his  has  more  cause  to  lament  on 
personal  account  than  myself.  The  public  misfor- 
tune is  one  which  all  the  friends  of  our  government 
will  view  in  the  same  light.  I  will  not  dwell  on  the 
subject.  My  imagination  is  gloomy — my  heart  is 
sad. 

Inclosed  is  an  order  relative  to  the  occasion  which 
speaks  its  own  object. 

With  the  sincerest  esteem,  etc.,  etc. 

1  Washington  died  on  the  i4th  of  December. 


General  Order  191 

GENERAL   ORDER   FOR  THE   CEREMONIAL   TO   BE   USED 
ON    THE    INTERMENT    OF    WASHINGTON 

1799. 

Major-General  Hamilton  has  received,  through  the 
Secretary  at  War,  the  following  order  from  the 
President  of  the  United  States. 

"The  President,  etc." 

The  impressive  terms  in  which  this  calamitous 
event  is  announced  by  the  President,  could  receive 
no  new  force  from  any  thing  that  might  be  added. 
The  voice  of  praise  would  in  vain  endeavor  to  exalt 
a  name  unrivalled  on  the  lists  of  true  glory.  Words 
would  in  vain  attempt  to  give  utterance  to  the  pro- 
found and  reverential  grief  which  will  enthral  every 
American  bosom,  and  arrest  the  sympathy  of  an 
admiring  world.  If  the  sad  privilege  of  pre-emi- 
nence in  sorrow  may  justly  be  claimed  from  the 
companions  in  arms  of  our  lamented  chief,  their  affec- 
tions will  spontaneously  perform  the  dear  though 
painful  duty.  T  is  only  for  me  to  mingle  my  tears 
with  theirs,  embittered  by  recollection  that  in 
mourning  the  loss  of  the  "MAN  OF  THE  AGE,"  I 
equally  mourn  that  of  the  long-tried  patron — the 
kind  and  unchanging  friend. 

In  obedience  to  the  directions  of  the  President, 
the  following  funeral  honors  will  be  paid  at  the  sev- 
eral stations  of  the  army. 

At  daybreak,  sixteen  guns  will  be  fired  in  quick 
succession,  and  one  gun  at  the  distance  of  each  half 
hour  till  sunset. 

During  the  procession  of  the  troops  to  the  place 
representing  that  of  the  interment,  and  until  the 


192  Alexander  Hamilton 

conclusion  of  the  ceremonial,  minute  guns  will  be 
fired. 

The  bier  will  be  received  by  the  troops  formed  in 
line  presenting  their  arms,  and  the  officers,  drums, 
and  colors  saluting.  After  this  the  procession  will 
begin :  the  troops  marching  by  platoons,  in  inverted 
order,  and  with  arms  reversed,  to  the  place  of  inter- 
ment, the  drums  muffled,  and  the  music  playing  a 
dead  march. 

The  bier,  carried  by  four  sergeants,  and  attended 
by  six  pall-bearers,  where  there  is  cavalry,  will  be 
preceded  by  the  cavalry,  and  will  be  followed  by 
the  troops  on  foot. 

Where  there  is  no  cavalry,  a  detachment  of  in- 
fantry will  precede  the  bier,  which  itself  will  in  every 
case  be  preceded  by  such  of  the  clergy  as  may  be 
present.  The  officers  of  the  general  staff  will  im- 
mediately succeed  the  bier. 

Where  a  numerous  body  of  citizens  shall  be  united 
with  the  military  in  the  procession,  the  whole  of  the 
troops  will  precede  the  bier,  which  will  be  followed 
by  the  citizens. 

When  arrived  near  the  place  of  interment,  the  pro- 
cession will  halt ;  the  troops  in  front  of  the  bier  will 
form  in  line,  and,  opening  their  ranks,  will  face  in- 
wards, to  admit  the  passage  of  the  bier,  which  will 
then  pass  through  the  ranks — the  troops  leaning 
upon  their  arms,  reversed,  while  the  bier  passes. 

When  the  bier  shall  have  passed,  the  troops  will 
resume  their  position  in  line,  and,  reversing  their 
arms,  will  remain  leaning  upon  them  until  the  cere- 
monial shall  be  closed. 


General  Order  193 

The  music  will  now  perform  a  solemn  air,  after 
which  the  introductory  part  of  this  order  will  be 
read. 

At  the  end  of  this  a  detachment  of  infantry,  ap- 
pointed for  the  purpose,  will  advance  and  fire  three 
volleys  over  the  bier. 

The  troops  will  then  return,  the  music  playing 
the  President's  March,  the  drums  being  previously 
unmuffled. 

The  uniform  companies  of  militia  are  invited  to 
join  in  arms  the  volunteer  corps.  The  commanders 
at  particular  stations,  conforming  generally  to  this 
plan,  will  make  such  exceptions  as  will  accommodate 
it  to  situation. 

At  places  where  processions  of  unarmed  citizens 
shall  take  place,  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Major-General 
that  the  military  ceremonial  should  be  united;  and 
the  particular  commanders  at  those  places  are 
authorized  to  vary  the  plan  so  as  to  adapt  it  to  the 
circumstances. 

Brigadier-General  McPherson  is  charged  to  super- 
intend the  ceremonial  in  the  city  of  Philadelphia; 
Major  Toussard  will  attend  to  Fort  Mifflin,  and  will 
co-operate  with  him. 

The  day  of  performing  the  ceremonial  at  each 
station  is  left  to  the  particular  commander. 

Major-General  Pinckney  will  make  such  further 
arrangements  within  his  district  as  he  shall  deem 
expedient. 

VOL.  VII.— 13. 


194  Alexander  Hamilton 

HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

PHILADELPHIA,  December,  1799. 

SIR: — A  complete  revision  of  the  articles  of  war  is 
desirable,  as  they  require  amendment  in  many  par- 
ticulars. But  this  would  be  so  serious  a  work,  that 
I  fear  it  is  not  likely  to  be  undertaken  with  a  pro- 
spect of  being  speedily  finished.  Waiving  the  ex- 
pectation of  such  a  revision,  there  are  some  things 
which  could  be  done  that  would  be  important  im- 
provements. You  are  aware  of  the  great  obscurity 
which  envelops  the  provisions  of  the  existing  articles 
respecting  the  power  to  appoint  general  courts- 
martial.  On  one  construction,  it  is  inconveniently 
narrow,  so  as  to  occasion  too  great  delay,  as  well  in 
constituting  courts,  as  in  giving  effect  to  their  sen- 
tences. On  another,  it  would  be  too  much  diffused, 
and  would  place  in  too  many  hands  a  trust  no  less 
delicate  than  important. 

To  attempt  to  attain  the  proper  medium  by  a 
mere  legislative  definition  of  the  characters  who  may 
execute  the  power,  would  be  attended  with  much 
difficulty,  and  might  often  not  meet  the  new  situa- 
tions which  are  apt  to  occur  in  the  infinite  combina- 
tions of  military  service.  The  expedient  which  has 
appeared  to  me  the  most  proper  is,  to  give  the 
President  a  discretionary  authority  to  empower  other 
officers  than  those  designated  by  the  articles  of  war, 
to  appoint  general  courts-martial  under  such  circum- 
stances and  with  such  limitations  as  he  shall  deem 
advisable. 

The  provisions  which  refer  to  the  President  the 
determination  on  sentences  affecting  life  and  the 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  195 

dismission  of  officers  must,  no  doubt,  have  been  fre- 
quently attended  with  perplexity  to  him,  and  are 
inconvenient  to  the  service.  It  is  scarcely  possible 
for  any  but  the  military  commander  to  appreciate 
duly  the  motives  which  in  such  cases  demand  sever- 
ity or  recommend  clemency.  To  this  an  accurate 
view  of  all  the  circumstances  of  the  army  in  detail 
is  often  necessary.  On  the  other  hand,  the  efficacy 
of  punishment,  when  requisite,  depends  much  upon 
its  celerity,  and  must  be  greatly  weakened  by  the 
unavoidable  delay  of  a  resort  to  the  Executive. 
These  reasons  certainly  render  it  expedient  to  enable 
the  commanding  general  of  an  army  to  decide  upon 
the  sentences  in  question  as  in  other  cases. 

The  proper  mode  of  treating  the  crime  of  desertion 
has  been,  in  most  cases,  an  embarrassing  subject.  In 
ours  it  is  particularly  so.  The  punishment  of  death, 
except  in  time  of  war,  is  contrary  to  the  popular 
habits  of  thinking.  Whipping  is  found  ineffectual. 
I  have  a  hope  that  confinement  and  labor  would 
prove  more  effectual.  Believing  this  punishment  to 
be  within  the  discretion  of  courts-martial,  I  encour- 
age its  adoption.  But  as  the  matter  now  stands,  the 
confinement  would  not  exceed  the  term  of  service, 
and  when  this  is  nearly  expired,  it  would  be  inade- 
quate. Some  auxiliary  provisions  are  desirable  to 
give  a  fair  chance  to  the  experiment.  It  is  not,  how- 
ever, my  idea  to  abolish  death,  which  in  some  ag- 
gravated cases  would  be  proper  even  in  time  of 
peace,  and  in  time  of  war  ought  invariably  to  ensue. 
I  incline  even  to  the  opinion,  that  the  power  of  par- 
doning ought  to  be  taken  away  in  this  case,  certainly 


196  Alexander  Hamilton 

in  every  instance  of  desertion,  or  an  attempt  to  de- 
sert to  enemies  or  traitors. 


HAMILTON   TO    COL.    SMITH 

NEW  YORK,  January  3,  1800. 

SIR: — Your  different  letters  of  the  23d,  24th,  and 
28th  of  December  have  been  delivered  to  me. 

It  is  always  difficult  in  contracts  to  define  the 
quality  of  the  articles  which  are  to  be  furnished,  and 
hence  has  arisen  the  silence  of  which  you  complain  in 
the  contract  with  the  agent  for  New  Jersey. 

It  is,  however,  implied  in  the  nature  of  the  trans- 
action, that  the  articles  be  good,  according  to  the 
common  acceptation  of  the  term;  and  when  this  is 
not  the  case,  the  agent  violates  his  engagement,  and 
the  United  States  are  at  liberty  to  refuse  the  arti- 
cles, provide  them  otherwise,  and  look  to  him  for 
damages. 

When  bread  is  furnished  in  lieu  of  flour,  it  ought 
to  be  made  of  flour,  and  not  of  middlings.  The 
bread  should  undoubtedly  be  made  of  the  article  for 
which  it  is  given  as  a  substitute.  The  attention 
which  you  have  paid  to  this  subject  has  my  warm 
approbation.  I  shall  write  to  the  contractor  point- 
edly respecting  it,  and  you  will  make  the  idea 
contained  in  this  letter  your  guide  in  your  future 
transactions  with  him. 

I  am  much  pleased  with  your  disposition,  and  with 
the  soldierly  conduct  of  the  troops  in  paying  the 
funeral  honors  to  our  departed  chief.  I  am  likewise 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  197 

much  pleased  with  your  resolution  of  erecting  a 
monument  as  a  testimonial  of  reverence  for  his 
character,  and  only  regret  that  I  cannot  make  the 
expense  a  public  instead  of  a  private  charge.  No 
alterations  occur  to  me  as  proper  to  be  made  in  the 
inscription,  except  that  I  would  submit  to  you, 
whether  a  more  dignified  simplicity  would  not  be 
given  to  it  by  leaving  out  the  verses;  although  they 
certainly  have  merit,  yet  they  appear  to  me  to  inter- 
fere with  that  simplicity  which  should  be  studied  on 
such  occasions. 

It  is  true  that  I  said  nothing  with  respect  to  extra 
expense.  This  proceeded  from  the  supposition  that 
no  expense  would  be  necessary  independently  of  the 
articles  furnished  by  the  public ;  and  from  a  convic- 
tion, which  experience  has  produced  in  my  mind,  of 
the  extreme  caution  to  be  observed  with  respect  to 
every  object  that  involves  an  expenditure  of  money 
out  of  the  regular  course. 

You  will  be  pleased,  however,  to  send  me  an  ac- 
count of  the  expenses  that  were  incurred.  Such  of 
them  as  were  necessarily  incident  to  the  celebration 
I  will  press  the  payment  of  with  the  Secretary  at 
War,  and  to  the  rest  I  will  give  every  attention  in 
my  power. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 


NEW  YORK,  January,  1800. 

SIR: — Some  of  the  maxims  which  obtain  with  the 
officers  at  the  seat  of  government,  charged  with  the 
adjustment  of  the  accounts  of  those  agents  who 


198  Alexander  Hamilton 

have  to  furnish  supplies  and  make  disbursements 
for  the  military  service,  are  of  a  nature  to  produce 
much  perplexity  and  inconvenience.  To  me  they 
appear  mistaken,  such  as  are  to  be  found  nowhere 
else,  and  such  as  must  render  it  impracticable  to 
discharge  military  duties  with  satisfaction  or  suc- 
cess. It  is  one  thing  to  have  and  enforce  rules 
which  check  improvident  expenditure,  and  secure  a 
due  accountability.  It  is  a  very  different  thing  to 
practise  upon  such  as  embarrass  and  retard  the  set- 
tlement of  proper  charges,  as  refuse  credit  for  ex- 
penditures regularly  made,  as  keep  agents  out  of 
money  to  which  they  are  entitled,  as  subject  to  pain- 
ful animadversions  and  harass  with  unnecessary 
explanations  officers  who,  in  the  exercise  of  a  reason- 
able discretion,  direct  measures  which  incur  expense. 

Specimens  of  the  operation  of  these  rules  are  to  be 
seen  in  the  communications  herewith  transmitted, 
from  E.  Stevens,  Esq.,  and  from  Majors  Toussard 
and  Jackson. 

It  is  perhaps  impossible,  in  military  affairs,  to  de- 
vise any  system  of  regulations  so  perfect  as  to  em- 
brace all  the  cases  in  which  expenditures  by  the 
order  of  particular  officers  for  current  occasions  are 
necessary.  Some  discretion  must  be  allowed.  This 
must  be  the  case,  even  with  regard  to  officers  of  in- 
ferior rank,  detached  to  remote  stations.  But  it 
must  be  frequently  and  extensively  the  case  as  to  a 
commanding  general.  In  time  of  war,  nothing  could 
proceed  without  this  discretion  upon  a  large  scale. 
In  time  of  peace,  incidents  of  a  more  limited  nature 
constantly  arise,  involving  expense,  which  could  not 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  199 

be  deferred  for  a  special  resort  to  the  head  of  the 
War  Department,  without  real  injury  to  the  service, 
while  the  officer,  by  the  necessity  of  that  resort  in 
matters  of  minutiae,  would  be  placed  in  a  situation 
extremely  humiliating  and  irksome. 

When  in  pursuance  of  this  discretion,  directions 
for  the  disbursement  of  money  are  given  to  a  sub- 
ordinate agent,  in  cases  in  which  there  has  been 
no  special  restriction  upon  him,  his  charges  ought 
to  be  admitted  without  difficulty,  and  the  superior 
officer  made  responsible  for  improper  directions 
in  his  office  or  in  his  pocket — in  both,  according 
to  circumstances. 

Though  it  may  be  necessary  to  confine  the  ordi- 
nary accounting  officers  to  the  admission  of  such 
items  only  as  are  within  established  regulations,  yet, 
when  others  occur,  they  ought  not  to  be  rejected  and 
thrown  back  upon  the  party  to  oblige  him  to  go 
through  the  tedious  and  circuitous  process  of  an  ap- 
lication  to  the  head  of  the  department  for  an  extra- 
ordinary sanction;  but  there  ought  to  be  an  interior 
arrangement  of  the  department  for  bringing  it  in  the 
first  instance  before  the  head  or  some  competent 
substitute  in  order  to  a  special  direction,  and,  when 
what  has  been  done  shall  appear  proper,  the  needful 
sanction  should  follow. 

In  the  instances  in  which  no  regulations  have  been 
established  by  the  department  as  a  guide  to  the 
officers,  their  acts  ought  to  be  viewed  with  greater 
liberality,  and  the  mismanagement  which  should 
subject  them  to  blame  or  embarrassment,  ought  to 
be  unequivocal. 


200  Alexander  Hamilton 

It  happens  that  no  rules  have  been  prescribed  with 
regard  to  extra  expenses.  Officers  are  left  to  exer- 
cise their  judgments  as  occasions  require.  They  do 
it  in  good  faith,  and  yet  their  acts  are  not  received 
as  authority  in  favor  of  agents,  who  could  not  with 
propriety  refuse  obedience  to  them.  The  funda- 
mental principle  of  the  military  system  is  thus  sub- 
verted. Agents  for  their  own  safety  are  taught  to 
reason  about  the  fitness  of  compliance  with  the  re- 
quisitions made  upon  them.  The  service  is  clogged. 
Commanding  officers  are  let  down;  and  in  very 
trifling  matters  are  perplexed  how  to  act.  This 
awkward  state  of  things  demands  a  correction.  The 
dignity  and  delicacy  of  officers,  as  well  as  the  good 
of  the  service,  demands  it. 


THE  STEP  r 

1800. 

Tacticians  agree  that  a  proper  regulation  of  the 
length  and  speed  of  the  step  is  of  primary  importance 
in  a  system  of  tactics. 

Upon  this  depends  essentially  the  exactness  of  all 
evolutions,  the  attainment  of  the  best  results  with 
the  least  inconvenience  to  the  soldier.  Yet,  in  the 
theories  of  military  writers,  and  in  the  establish- 
ments of  military  nations,  there  is  great  diversity  in 
this  important  article.  For  example :  while  our  step 
is  two  feet  English,  that  of  France  (and  it  is  believed 

1  This  was  a  subject  to  which  Hamilton  gave  a  great  deal  of  atten- 
tion, and  in  regard  to  which  he  carried  on  an  extensive  correspondence, 
some  of  which  is  given  below. 


The  Step  201 

of  Russia)  is  two  feet  French,  or  about  twenty-six 
inches  English;  that  of  Great  Britain,  two  feet  six 
inches  English.  There  is  also  some,  though  less, 
difference  as  to  the  velocity  of  the  step:  that  of 
France  being  76,  100,  120  in  a  minute;  that  of  Great 
Britain,  75,  108,  and  120  in  a  minute. 

This  diversity  is  a  reason  against  adopting  im- 
plicitly any  foreign  standard,  and  a  motive  to  in- 
vestigation of  the  principles  on  which  the  step  ought 
to  be  predicated.  It  is  desirable,  if  possible,  to  find 
a  standard  in  nature. 

As  to  length,  the  step  ought  to  be  accommodated 
to  men  of  the  smaller  sizes.  A  tall  man  can  abridge 
easier  than  a  short  man  extend.  And  yet,  perhaps 
neither  extreme  ought  to  govern ;  a  short  man  may, 
by  habit,  somewhat  lengthen  his  usual  step  without 
fatigue,  while  a  tall  man  may  be  too  much  con- 
strained, if  obliged  to  contract  his  step  to  the  measure 
of  a  very  short  man.  The  man  of  middle  stature 
may  be  the  proper  criterion,  or  perhaps  the  average 
of  a  number  of  men  of  different  sizes  marching  to- 
gether, may  furnish  a  still  better  rule.  In  such 
case,  a  kind  of  compromise  naturally  takes  place,  by 
the  mutual  effort  of  all  to  move  in  unison. 

But  to  arrive  at  a  full  result,  it  is  necessary  that 
the  experiments  should  be  multiplied,  should  be  by 
individuals  of  different  sizes,  and  by  bodies  of  differ- 
ent numbers  from  few  to  many,  and  especially  that 
they  should  be  on  different  sorts  of  ground,  rough  as 
well  as  smooth,  unequal  as  well  as  plain.  By  this 
diversification  of  the  experiments,  it  may  be  possible 
to  discover  some  medium  which,  being  adopted  as 


2O2  Alexander  Hamilton 

a  standard,  and  made  habitual  to  the  troops,  will 
best  accommodate  itself  to  the  variety  of  circum- 
stances which  occur. 

It  is  a  fact  which,  in  this  investigation,  demands 
particular  attention,  that  the  length  of  the  step 
naturally  increases  with  its  speed  or  velocity.  In 
a  slow  movement,  the  body  is  nearly  perpendicular, 
and  the  leg  kept  back;  in  a  rapid  one,  the  body  is 
impelled  forward,  and  with  it  the  leg,  which,  without 
effort,  takes  a  greater  distance  in  this  than  in  the 
former  case. 

Hence  a  question  whether  the  length  of  the  step 
ought  not  to  be  proportioned  to  the  speed,  and 
whether,  instead  of  that  uniformity  which  seems  to 
have  been  preferred,  it  ought  not  to  be  less  in  the 
slower  and  greater  in  the  quicker  steps.  It  is  evi- 
dent, that  by  lengthening  the  step  with  the  speed,  a 
greater  quantity  of  ground  will  be  passed  over  in  a 
given  time,  and  perhaps  with  less  fatigue,  from  the 
men  being  less  constrained. 

The  varieties  in  the  speed  of  the  step  demand 
careful  examination.  A  slow,  cadenced,  majestic 
step  has  been  adopted,  especially  in  reference  to 
manoeuvres  of  parade  and  the  march  in  line.  From 
75  to  80  in  a  minute  have  been  latterly  deemed  an 
eligible  standard.  For  occasions  which  require 
greater  celerity,  about  TOO  in  a  minute  has  been 
adopted,  to  be  increased  in  particular  cases  to  120. 

These  questions  arise.  Are  all  these  varieties  de- 
sirable as  fundamental  rules?  If  not,  what  ought 
to  be  substituted?  Is  the  slowest  of  these  steps  ever 
useful  in  the  actual  service  of  the  field?  If  not, 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  203 

ought  it  to  obtain  for  any,  and  for  what  collateral 
reasons?  To  what  kind  of  movements  is  each 
variety  applicable?  In  fine,  what  ought  to  be  es- 
tablished as  to  the  speed  of  the  step. 

Respect  for  the  institutions  of  nations  who  have 
arrived  at  considerable  perfection  in  the  art  of  war, 
is  a  dictate  of  good  sense ;  but  when  we  consider  the 
influence  of  the  spirit  of  imitation,  and  how  liable 
men  habituated  to  routine  are  to  be  trammelled  by 
that  to  which  they  have  been  accustomed,  we  shall 
find  good  reason  not  to  follow  those  institutions  im- 
plicitly. In  the  particular  affair  of  the  length  and 
speed  of  the  step,  there  is  room  to  suspect  that  prin- 
ciples have  not  been  sufficiently  consulted,  and  that 
real  improvements  may  be  made.  This,  however, 
is  to  be  carefully  examined,  with  a  temper  no  less 
remote  from  the  love  of  innovation  than  from  a 
spirit  of  blind  deference  to  authority  and  precedent. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  March  21,  1800. 

DEAR  SIR: 

Though,  from  repeated  reflection  and  action  upon 
the  subject,  my  opinion  was  well  made  up  when  I 
received  your  letter  of  the  igth,  yet  I  thought  it 
proper  once  more  to  review  the  matter  before  I  com- 
plied with  your  request.  The  principle  of  the  doc- 
trine advanced  by  the  accountant  will  go  much 
farther  than  the  position  which  he  now  avows, 
namely,  "that  no  authority  short  of  Congress  can 


204  Alexander  Hamilton 

make  allowances  to  an  officer  beyond  the  emolu- 
ments fixed  to  his  office  by  law."  It  will  go  the 
length  of  denying  to  the  Executive,  in  all  its  branches, 
any  discretion  not  confirmed  by  some  special  law, 
to  call  forth  and  compensate  any  services,  not 
merely  of  officers,  but  of  any  other  persons,  which 
are  not  indicated  and  provided  for  by  particular 
statutes. 

It  will  interdict  the  employment  and  compensa- 
tion of  a  citizen  as  a  writer,  or  even  as  an  express, 
no  less  than  that  of  an  officer,  for  either  purpose. 
The  foundation  of  the  doctrine  must  be,  that  there 
is  no  power  in  the  Executive  to  subject  the  public 
to  expense  in  any  case  not  specially  provided  for  by 
law.  What  substantial  difference  can  there  be  be- 
tween employing  a  private  citizen  for  some  contin- 
gent service,  and  paying  him  for  it,  and  employing 
an  officer  for  something  not  within  the  sphere  of  his 
official  duty,  and  compensating  him  for  it?  I  dis- 
cover none  in  the  theory;  for  as  to  such  extra  serv- 
ice he  is  a  private  citizen,  and  I  know  no  law  that 
declares  a  distinction. 

It  is  certain  that  in  the  course  of  the  discharge  of 
its  trust,  there  will  occur  numerous  instances  in 
which  the  public  service  must  stagnate,  or  the  Ex- 
ecutive must  employ  and  compensate  agents  not 
contemplated  by  special  laws. 

It  follows,  in  my  opinion,  that  he  must  have  an 
inherent  right  to  do  it,  under  these  restrictions; 
that  it  ought  to  be  relative  to  some  object  confided 
to  his  agency  by  the  Constitution,  or  by  the  laws; 
and  that  no  money  ought  actually  to  be  paid,  for 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  205 

which  there  is  not  an  appropriation  by  statute, 
either  with  particular  reference  to  the  purpose,  or 
under  the  general  denomination  of  contingencies. 
This  is,  in  my  opinion,  a  right  necessarily  implied; 
nor  do  I  see  why  the  Executive  may  not  claim  the 
exercise  of  implied  powers,  as  well  as  the  legislative. 
In  a  word,  there  is  no  public  function  which  does 
not  include  the  exercise  of  implied  as  well  as  express 
authority. 

This  reasoning,  as  far  as  I  know,  is  consonant  with 
the  practice  of  every  government,  and  with  that  of 
ours,  as  well  under  the  Confederation,  as  under  the 
present  Constitution.  If  my  memory  deceive  me 
not,  there  was  an  act  of  Congress  prohibiting  the 
union  of  two  offices  in  the  same  person,  with  dis- 
tinct compensations.  Yet  this  did  not  hinder  the 
allowance  of  special  compensations  to  officers  for 
special  and  extra  service.  Still  less  did  it  hinder  the 
indemnification  for  extra  expenses  of  an  officer  in 
peculiar  situations.  Such  compensations  and  in- 
demnifications were,  I  believe,  made  by  the  execu- 
tive boards,  under  the  former  government.  Indeed, 
I  am  unusually  mistaken,  if  the  uniform  practice  of 
the  Treasury  and  War  Departments  under  this  gov- 
ernment, does  not  recognize  the  rule  for  which  I 
contend,  and  reject  that  which  is  advanced  by  the 
accountant.  This  practice,  too,  has  been  right.  A 
different  one  will  be  found  in  experience  a  fatal  clog 
on  the  wheels  of  public  business.  The  administra- 
tion at  large  is  interested  in  discountenancing  it,  and 
that  spirit  of  cavil  in  the  accountant,  on  which  it  is 
founded,  and  which  my  observations  in  my  present 


206  Alexander  Hamilton 

station  have  convinced  me  is  ruinous  to  the  military 
department  of  the  government.  There  was  not  an 
appropriation  law  passed,  while  I  was  at  the  head  of 
the  Treasury,  which  did  not  sanction  my  principle. 
There  was  always,  I  believe,  a  sum  for  the  contin- 
gencies of  the  War  Department. 

The  power  to  incur  charges  which  involve  ex- 
pense, not  falling  under  any  specific  head,  presup- 
poses the  right  to  employ  agents  and  engage  services 
not  particularly  contemplated  by  law.  I  always 
viewed  such  appropriations  as  a  virtual  sanction  of 
the  right,  including  in  them  a  warranty,  if  necessary, 
to  exercise  the  power.  Such  too  was  the  practical 
construction. 

Nobody  knows  better  the  truth  in  this  respect  than 
Mr.  Wolcott.  Nobody  ought  more  decidedly  to 
frown  upon  the  dangerous  metaphysics  of  Mr.  Sim- 
mons. The  recognition  of  this  doctrine  will  be  a 
fatal  precedent  in  the  administration.  It  will  be  a 
palsy,  destructive  of  all  energy  in  the  government. 
Considering  the  dispositions  which  prevail  among 
certain  men,  in  a  certain  body,  there  ought  to  be 
more  than  a  common  anxiety  not  to  establish  such  a 
fetter  upon  Executive  operations. 
Yours,  etc. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY  * 

NEW  YORK,  April  7,  1800. 

SIR: — I  shall  doubtless  bear  in  mind  the  intima- 
tion of  Mrs.  Adams,  and  shall  take  great  pleasure  in 

1  Now  first  published  from  the  Hamilton  MSS.,  vol.  xviii.,  p.  125. 


Hamilton  to  de  Noailles  207 

fulfilling  her  wish  if  there  shall  be  occurrences  which 
shall  render  it  not  incompatible  with  the  good  of  the 
service. 

On  the  disposition  of  the  troops  for  the  ensuing 
summer,  I  shall,  erelong,  make  you  an  official  com- 
munication. 


HAMILTON   TO   DE   NOAILLES 

NEW  YORK,  May  5,  1800. 

DEAR  SIR: 

I  observe  that  the  French  regulations,  as  well  as 
those  of  several  other  countries,  adopt  a  fixed  meas- 
ure for  the  pace  (pas),  without  regard  to  the  velocity, 
which,  in  the  French  code,  is  two  feet  French.  As  the 
measures  differ  in  different  European  establishments, 
I  have  been  causing  experiments  to  be  made,  in  order 
to  discover,  if  practicable,  a  standard  in  nature  rela- 
tively to  the  medium  size  of  a  man.  In  the  course 
of  these  experiments,  it  appears  that  though  two 
feet  is  about  the  natural  length  of  the  cadenced  step 
—say  seventy-five  in  a  minute — of  a  body  of  men, 
yet  they  naturally  increase  the  length  of  the  step 
with  the  velocity. 

This  has  led  me  to  some  new  reflections  on  the 
point;  and  as  I  respect  European  precedents,  in  a 
science  which  has  been  so  much  studied  and  prac- 
tised, I  am  desirous  of  knowing  what  reasoning  has 
led  to  the  adopting  of  a  determinate  length  for  all  the 
direct  steps,  without  regard  to  the  velocity — that  is 
to  say,  the  same  for  the  quick  and  quickest. 

Nobody  can  better  enlighten  me  on  this  subject 
than  yourself,  and  I  rely  on  your  friendly  disposition. 


208  Alexander  Hamilton 

I  therefore  do  not  hesitate  to  request  that  you  will, 
as  soon  as  may  be,  let  me  hear  from  you  on  the  point, 
and  as  particularly  as  may  be  convenient. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  May  5,  1800. 

SIR: — I  have  the  honor  to  transmit  you  the  copy 
of  a  letter  of  the  4th  instant,  from  Colonel  Taylor. 
It  presents  a  picture,  of  which  the  similitude  has  too 
frequently  come  under  my  observation. 

I  must  be  permitted  to  observe  that  nothing  can 
be  more  injurious  to  the  service,  than  that  pecuniary 
embarrassment  should  be  occasioned  to  officers  in 
reference  to  services  duly  performed  and  expendi- 
tures regularly  made,  by  reason  either  of  the  want 
of  a  proper  distribution  and  definition  of  the  duties 
of  the  respective  officers  of  the  War  Department,  or 
by  misapprehensions  among  themselves  as  to  the 
boundaries  of  their  powers  and  duties.  It  presents 
an  image  of  defect  of  system  calculated  to  inspire 
sentiments  very  different  from  those  of  confidence 
and  respect,  and  it  is  attended  with  serious  incon- 
veniences to  officers,  who  are  kept  out  of  compensa- 
tions and  reimbursements  very  essential  to  their 
accommodation.  Besides  that,  it  interferes  with  the 
settlement  of  their  accounts  in  every  case  in  which 
for  want  of  funds  applicable  to  the  special  objects, 
there  has  been  necessity  for  the  temporary  transfer 
of  funds  which  had  other  destination. 

The  call  upon  the  officers  to  refund,  as  men- 
tioned by  Colonel  Taylor,  is  a  violent  measure.  It 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  209 

is  in  most  instances  impracticable  for  them  to  com- 
ply, and  surely  an  anterior  arrangement  in  the  modes 
of  accounting  ought  to  have  obviated  such  a  re- 
quisition. It  is  in  my  knowledge,  as  formerly  a 
member  of  the  administration,  that  there  was  often 
a  necessity  for  accommodations  of  this  kind,  and 
that  they  were  practised ;  nor  can  the  public  business 
proceed  without  them. 

It  is  a  delicate  matter,  in  my  station,  to  animad- 
vert upon  the  conduct  of  officers  in  the  civil  depart- 
ments of  government.  Yet  there  are  occasions  in 
which  it  is  proper  to  waive  a  scruple  of  this  sort,  and 
to  state  the  tendency  of  their  conduct  toward  the 
service. 

Yielding  to  a  sense  of  duty,  I  do  not  hesitate  to 
say,  that  in  my  opinion  the  accountant  displays  very 
often  a  spirit  which,  if  not  designed,  certainly  tends 
to  injure  the  service,  and  sour  and  dissatisfy  all  who 
are  parts  of  or  connected  with  the  army. 

I  know  that  officer  to  be  capable,  diligent,  and 
honest,  but  he  is  certainly  not  as  accommodating 
as  the  complicated  urgencies  of  military  service  re- 
quire; and  he  rigidly  adheres  to  rules  which,  if  uni- 
versally applied,  are  incompatible  with  practice. 

This  disposition  must  either  be  corrected  or  our 
military  affairs  must  always  be  in  disorder.  The  pub- 
lic will  be  burthened  with  a  large  additional  expense 
as  an  indemnification  for  the  evils  of  the  accountant's 
rigor,  and  general  dissatisfaction  will  prevail. 

The  paymaster-general  is  charged  by  law  with 
certain  definite  objects:  the  pay,  arrears  of  pay, 
subsistence  and  forage  of  the  troops.  These  are 

VOL.  VII.— 14. 


210  Alexander  Hamilton 

regulated  by  law,  and  involve  the  exercise  of  little  or 
no  discretion.  The  accountant  has  a  more  extensive 
authority,  embracing  among  other  things,  the  ex- 
penses of  the  recruiting  service,  and  all  incidental 
and  contingent  expenses  of  the  department. 

Where  cases  occur  relatively  to  his  duties,  which 
are  either  within  the  specific  provisions  of  the  laws, 
or  within  the  established  regulations  of  the  head 
of  the  department,  founded  upon  the  general  pro- 
visions of  the  laws,  or  the  nature  of  his  office,  the 
accountant  is  to  adjust  them  of  course.  Where  mat- 
ters are  presented,  not  comprehended  in  the  one  or 
the  other,  and  which  must  be  governed  by  discretion, 
these  are  to  be  reported  by  him  to  the  Secretary  at 
War  for  his  instruction,  and  in  these  cases  the  ac- 
countant is  to  obey  that  instruction,  leaving  the 
responsibility  to  rest  upon  the  superior. 

I  premise  this  view  of  the  scheme  of  the  depart- 
ment, as  preliminary  to  a  proposition  which  I  shall 
submit. 

It  seems  to  me  that  it  will  be  expedient  to  extend 
the  functions  of  the  paymaster-general  and  his  sub- 
ordinates to  some  objects  not  now  understood  to 
come  within  their  sphere — namely,  ist.  The  trav- 
elling expenses  when  detached,  and  extra  compensa- 
tions to  officers  for  extra  services.  2d.  The  expenses 
of  apprehending  deserters.  3d.  Postage  and  sta- 
tionery, when  paid  for  by  officers  of  the  line;  and 
lastly,  the  affair  of  bounty  money,  and  the  contin- 
gent expenses  of  the  recruiting  service. 

In  order  to  defray  such  expenses  in  the  first  in- 
stance, let  the  regimental  paymasters  and  persons 


Hamilton  to  Col.  Smith  211 

acting  as  such,  be  furnished  with  small  sums  as  a 
fund  for  contingencies ;  out  of  this  fund  let  them  de- 
fray those  expenses,  and  let  the  accounts  be  settled 
provisionally  by  the  paymaster-general,  under  the 
eventual  control  of  the  accountant. 

For  this  purpose,  it  ought  to  be  understood,  that 
if  in  any  instance  an  officer  receives  more  than  he 
ought  to  have,  it  shall  be  a  charge  against  his  pay, 
but  shall  be  no  obstacle  to  the  settlement  of  the  ac- 
counts of  the  paymasters,  except  where  they  may  be 
chargeable  with  wilful  default  or  gross  carelessness. 

The  accounts  for  these  supernumerary  objects  may 
be  rendered  and  settled  distinctly  from  those  pro- 
vided for  by  law;  and  perhaps  an  additional  com- 
pensation may  be  made  to  the  paymaster-general. 

This  plan,  I  think,  would  remove  some  obstacles, 
and  give  some  facilities  which  would  be  convenient 
to  the  service.  But  whatever  may  be  the  plan  pur- 
sued, it  is  of  primary  importance  that  some  arrange- 
ment shall  be  devised,  which  shall  provide  for  a 
speedy  adjustment  of  similar  matters,  and  prevent 
the  disgusting  altercations  and  delays  which  now 
continually  ensue.  I  entreat  your  prompt  and  care- 
ful attention  to  the  subject,  and  that  you  will  imme- 
diately give  in  the  particular  case  such  orders  as  will 
remove  the  difficulty  represented  by  Colonel  Taylor. 


HAMILTON   TO    COL.    SMITH 

NEW  YORK,  May  8,  1800. 

SIR  : — I  duly  received  your  letter  of  the  2d  of  April, 
which  has  lain  by  from  the  pressure  of  more  urgent 


212  Alexander  Hamilton 

business.  In  breaking  silence  now,  I  wish  only  to 
prevent  misapprehension,  as  it  may  influence  future 
>cases. 

I  am  persuaded  in  what  you  did  you  were  actuated 
by  a  very  praiseworthy  zeal,  and  I  perceive  that 
there  were  circumstances  from  which  you  were  led 
to  infer  a  larger  discretion  than  it  was  my  intention 
to  imply.  Yet  I  ought  in  candor  to  observe,  that 
those  circumstances  were  designed  by  me,  essen- 
tially, to  enable  you  to  exert  your  own  immediate 
agency,  without  previous  resort  to  me,  as  to  objects 
within  the  purview  and  spirit  of  the  general  direc- 
tions, and  that  several  of  the  items  in  question  do 
not  appear  to  me  to  answer  this  description. 

This  must  not  be  received  as  a  censure,  but  as  ex- 
planation to  guide  in  future.  When  an  officer  bona 
fide  misconstrues  an  instruction,  and  acts  with  a 
sincere  view  to  the  good  of  the  service,  I  should  with 
reluctance  blame,  though  I  should  always  think  it 
proper  to  tell  him  frankly,  that  a  misconstruction 
had  happened,  as  a  caution  for  other  occasions. 

I  do  not  understand  that  any  impediment  to  the 
settlement  of  the  accounts  exists,  and  if  not,  no  fur- 
ther step  on  my  part  is  necessary. 


HAMILTON   TO    DE    NOAILLES 

NEW  YORK,  May  13,  1800. 

DEAR  SIR: 

I  find  by  your  reply  to  my  inquiry,  that  I  did  not 
convey  my  meaning  to  you  with  sufficient  per- 
spicuity. 


Hamilton  to  General  Pinckney  213 

I  was  aware  that  in  the  French  system  the  length 
of  the  pace  in  the  direct  step  is  uniform,  without  re- 
gard to  the  velocity;  but  I  was  desirous  of  knowing 
what  mode  of  reasoning  may  have  produced  this 
uniformity,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  the  length 
of  the  step  naturally  agrees  with  the  velocity. 

It  would  seem  upon  principles  better  to  proportion 
the  pace  to  the  velocity;  that  is,  to  have  one  length 
for  the  ordinary  step,  another  for  the  route  step,  and 
perhaps  (but  this  I  doubt)  a  third  for  the  charge  step. 

The  effect  of  restraining  the  quick  step  to  the 
measure  of  the  slow  step,  is  to  make  a  greater  quan- 
tity of  effort  necessary  to  attain  a  given  distance, 
and  thereby  to  render  marches  more  fatiguing  than 
they  ought  to  be. 

Having  now  explained  myself,  I  shall  be  obliged 
by  your  further  thoughts  on  the  matter. 


HAMILTON   TO    GENERAL   PINCKNEY 

NEW  YORK,  May  14,  1800. 

SIR: — I  was  in  due  time  favored  with  your  letter 
of  the  25th  April. 

I  am  glad  that  our  ideas  coincide  as  to  the  forma- 
tion of  a  regiment  for  exercise  and  battle. 

It  is  a  part  of  the  plan,  (though  the  extract  sent 
you  did  not  go  so  far  as  to  show  it,)  that  the  com- 
panies for  those  purposes  shall  always  be  equalized. 
This  is  no  doubt  essential.  The  inconvenience  of 
occasionally  separating  the  men  from  their  officers 
must  be  submitted  to  for  the  overbalancing  advan- 
tages of  the  equalization. 


214  Alexander  Hamilton 

In  primary  formations,  we  must  of  necessity  con- 
template the  corps  as  complete,  and  prescribe  what 
a  sound  theory  requires  on  that  supposition ;  taking 
care  to  provide  for  casualties  by  means  agreeing  with 
the  general  principle.  With  the  latter  view  "the 
places  of  officers  and  non-commissioned  officers  who 
may  be  wanting  or  absent  are  to  be  supplied  by 
those  next  in  grade,  and  when  necessary  in  the 
formation  for  exercise  or  battle,  the  commandant  of 
a  regiment  may  assign  officers  of  one  company  to 
another  company."  The  application  of  this  pro- 
vision will  require  that  the  junior  of  the  two  cap- 
tains shall  command  the  division  when  the  senior  is 
absent,  in  every  case  in  which  the  division  acts 
collectively.  An  occasional  change  of  position  for 
this  purpose  will  not  be  difficult. 

What  would  you  think  of  varying  the  plan  of 
formation  by  placing  the  captain  in  the  rear  of  the 
centre  of  his  company,  stationing  the  first  lieutenant 
on  the  right  of  the  right  platoon,  the  second  on  the 
right  of  the  left  platoon? 

The  arguments  for  such  a  disposition  are,  that 
when  in  action  in  line,  the  captain  will  be  in  the  best 
situation  to  attend  to  his  whole  company,  to  extend 
his  influences  over  the  whole,  and  to  keep  every  part 
at  its  post.  In  movements  which  may  require  a  dif- 
ferent position,  a  correspondent  change  can  be  made. 

This  idea  has  some  attractions  for  me,  though  I 
have  not  as  yet  embraced  it  even  provisionally. 
And  you  will  understand  that  no  part  of  my  plan  is 
definitely  adopted.  It  is  all  sub  judice — open  to  re- 
visal  and  correction. 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  215 

The  fact  which  you  notice,  that  the  length  of  the 
step  increases  with  the  velocity,  is  confirmed  by 
other  experiments  which  I  had  caused  to  be  made; 
and,  when  observed,  is  seen  to  depend  on  a  very 
obvious  reason.  This  fact  at  present  inclines  me  to 
vary  the  length  of  the  step  in  proportion  to  velocity 
—at  least,  to  have  two  different  standards.  It  is 
certain  that  the  contrary  principle  must  augment 
the  quantity  of  exertion  requisite  to  attain  a  given 
distance,  and  tend  to  render  marches  more  slow  and 
more  fatiguing. 

I  doubt  not  that  the  prudent  change  you  have 
made  in  the  situation  of  your  troops  will  be  attended 
with  salutary  effects. 

With  great  consideration  and  esteem, 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  etc. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  May  19,  1800. 

SIR  : — I  have  transmitted  to  the  paymaster-general 
an  abstract  of  the  numbers  of  the  twelve  additional 
regiments,  and  have  urged  him  to  make  an  estimate 
of  the  sums  which  will  be  due,  including  the  three 
months'  extra  pay,  and  without  delay  to  remit  ade- 
quate funds. 

I  beg  you  to  send  for  him,  and  to  second  by  your 
authority  the  instruction  I  have  given. 

I  am  thus  particular,  because  without  great  exer- 
tion the  troops  cannot  be  paid  up  before  the  time 
fixed  for  their  discharge;  and,  in  my  opinion,  it  is 
essential  that  this  should  be  done.  Public  clamor, 


216  Alexander  Hamilton 

infinite  disgust  in  the  officers  and  men,  possibly  great 
irregularities  on  the  routes  homeward,  and  certainly 
additional  obstacles  in  obtaining  men  on  future  oc- 
casions, would  attend  the  disbanding  without  full 
satisfaction. 

Hence  I  press  for  every  possible  exertion  to  be 
prepared  for  the  time  which  has  been  assigned ;  and 
hence,  also,  I  think  it  proper  to  say  that,  should  cir- 
cumstances prevent  the  payment  of  their  dues  to 
the  troops  by  that  time,  I  shall  consider  it  as  con- 
sistent with  the  orders  I  have  received,  no  less  than 
with  the  interest  and  honor  of  the  government,  to 
defer  the  disbanding  till  the  payment  shall  have  been 
received,  unless  I  have  fresh  and  precise  instructions 
to  the  contrary. 

With  great  respect,  etc. 


HAMILTON   TO    ADAMS 

CAMP,  SCOTCH  PLAINS,  May  24,  1800. 

SIR: — I  had  the  honor  of  receiving,  an  hour  since, 
your  letter  of  the  226.  instant,  with  a  copy  of  one  to 
you  from  Colonel  Smith. 

I  am  happy  to  think  that  the  question  presented 
is  on  mere  military  principles  a  very  simple  one. 
The  rule  of  promotion  by  succession  does  not,  in  any 
service,  as  far  as  my  knowledge  goes,  apply  to  a  new 
corps  in  its  fresh  organization.  Officers  for  such  a 
corps,  it  is  understood,  may  be  found  wheresoever  it 
is  thought  fit,  without  regard  to  those  of  the  ante- 
cedent establishment.  This  rule  has  been  repeat- 
edly and  recently  acted  upon  in  this  country,  and  is 
necessary  and  right. 


Hamilton  to  Adams  217 

The  regularity  of  complying  with  the  wish  of 
Colonel  Smith  depends,  then,  on  the  fact,  whether 
the  second  regiment  of  artillery  has  ever  been  or- 
ganized. I  believe  that  it  never  has  been,  never  yet 
having  had  a  commandant;  and,  I  have  supposed, 
that  this  state  of  the  thing  was  the  reason  why  the 
eldest  major  of  the  two  regiments  was  not  long  be- 
fore this  appointed  as  a  matter  of  right.  If  I  am 
correct  in  the  fact  (of  which  the  Secretary  at  War 
can  give  you  precise  information),  the  conclusion  is, 
that  the  appointment  of  Colonel  Smith  will  violate 
no  military  rule,  nor  the  right  of  any  other  officer. 
It  may,  and  probably  will,  contravene  expectations 
entertained  on  reasonable  grounds;  but  this  is  a 
different  thing  from  the  infraction  of  a  right. 

But  except  on  the  principle  that  the  regiment  was 
never  organized,  Colonel  Smith,  an  officer  of  in- 
fantry, could  not  be  placed  in  the  command  of  it,  in 
exclusion  of  the  majors  of  the  corps  without  depart- 
ing from  military  ideas. 

The  major  and  other  officers  of  the  additional 
battalion  may,  doubtless,  with  strict  regularity,  be 
appointed  from  the  officers  on  this  ground,  if  it  shall 
be  thought  expedient. 

What  has  been  said  is,  I  imagine,  a  full  answer 
to  the  inquiry  you  have  been  pleased  to  make ;  and 
perhaps  I  ought  to  say  no  more.  Yet  if  I  did  stop 
here,  I  should  not  be  satisfied  that  I  had  fulfilled  all 
that  candor  and  delicacy  required  of  me.  I  will 
therefore  take  the  liberty  to  add  a  few  words.  There 
are  collateral  considerations  affecting  the  expediency 
of  the  measure,  which,  I  am  sure,  will  not  escape 


218  Alexander  Hamilton 

your  reflection,  and  if,  after  weighing  them  duly,  you 
shall  be  of  opinion  that  they  ought  not  to  prevail  as 
obstacles,  you  will  without  doubt  anticipate  criticism. 
I  trust  this  remark  will  not  be  misunderstood. 
The  opinion  I  have  of  Colonel  Smith's  military 
pretensions,  my  personal  regard  for  him,  and  my 
sensibility  to  his  situation,  conspire  to  beget  in  me 
sentiments  very  different  from  a  disposition  to  throw 
the  least  impediment  in  the  way  of  his  success. 


HAMILTON   TO    CALEB    SWAN 

CAMP,  SCOTCH  PLAINS,  May  26,  1800. 

SIR: — I  send  you  the  copy  of  a  letter  of  the  i4th 
instant,  from  Captain  Ellery,  with  the  documents  to 
which  it  refers. 

If  my  recollection  be  right,  there  lies  an  appeal 
from  the  accountant  to  the  Comptroller  of  the 
Treasury.  If  so,  I  request  that  you  will,  without 
delay,  on  behalf  of  Captain  Ellery,  make  an  appeal. 

After  much  reflection,  I  do  not  perceive  any  sound 
distinction  between  special  compensations  to  persons 
not  of  the  army,  and  similar  compensations  to 
officers  of  the  army  for  services  which  do  not  apper- 
tain to  the  nature  of  their  offices. 

Their  established  compensations  cannot  be  pre- 
sumed to  embrace  such  services;  as  to  these  they 
are  mere  strangers,  with  the  sole  difference,  that 
being  already  in  the  employ  and  pay  of  the  gov- 
ernment, it  is  reasonable  they  should  receive  less 
allowances. 

If,  as  the  practice  admits,  it  is  within  Executive 


Hamilton  to  Caleb  Swan  219 

discretion  to  allow  special  compensations  to  strangers, 
payable  out  of  the  fund  for  contingencies,  it  must  be 
on  the  principle,  that  such  services  being  casually 
necessary,  and  not  provided  for  by  law,  it  is  requisite 
to  the  progress  of  the  service,  and  agreeable  to  an 
implied  license  in  the  appropriation  of  the  fund,  that 
they  should  be  called  forth  and  recompensed  by 
Executive  authority.  And  the  same  principle  would 
extend  to  allowances  to  particular  officers  for  serv- 
ices which  the  laws  did  not  contemplate  that  they 
were  to  perform,  and  consequently  did  not  provide 
for.  The  interest  of  the  service  will  manifestly  be 
promoted  by  this  extension.  In  numerous  instances 
officers  may  be  made  use  of  for  such  purposes  without 
interfering  with  the  parts  of  the  service  for  which 
they  were  destined;  and  in  all  such  instances,  as 
their  allowances  will  be  less  than  would  be  made  to 
strangers,  there  will  be  economy  in  employing  them; 
besides  that  in  many  cases  they  are  best  qualified, 
and  in  some  situations  other  qualified  persons  could 
not  be  found  at  all. 

To  say  that  special  compensation  for  special  serv- 
ice is  in  no  case  within  Executive  discretion,  would 
be  contrary  to  uniform  usage,  and  would  arrest  the 
wheels  of  every  branch  of  the  government.  In  the 
military  service,  especially,  innumerable  casualties 
occur  in  which  the  exercise  of  that  discretion  is 
indispensable. 

What  is  to  be  done?  A  person  is  appointed 
lieutenant  of  a  regiment;  there  is  a  certain  routine 
of  duties  incident  to  the  station.  These  are  for- 
eign to  the  clerical  and  peculiar  duties  attached  to 


220  Alexander  Hamilton 

different  branches  of  the  staff.  These,  besides  de- 
manding particular  qualifications,  frequently  involve 
close  application  and  constant  drudgery. 

Suppose  an  officer  is  called  to  exchange  the  one 
station  for  the  other,  without  an  equivalent  for  the 
additional  labor  and  skill;  may  he  not  reasonably 
decline  it,  and  say,  this  service  is  not  within  the 
terms  of  my  undertaking  with  the  public?  Suppose 
even,  that  the  disposition  of  military  subordination 
would  not  tolerate  a  refusal;  could  a  service  proceed 
with  harmony  and  satisfaction  and  advantage,  in 
which  such  a  despotism  was  exercised? 

Will  it  be  said  that  the  future  justice  of  the  Legis- 
lature is  to  be  relied  upon?  Will  officers  cheerfully 
undertake  or  assiduously  perform  on  such  precarious 
ground?  Is  it  right  to  compromise  a  commanding 
general  by  laying  him  under  the  necessity  of  giving 
expectations  which  may  not  be  realized? 

There  can  be  no  doubt  on  this  question  where  jus- 
tice and  expediency  point ;  and  though  first  appear- 
ances may  countenance  the  distinction  which  has 
been  made,  a  more  thorough  view  of  the  subject 
shows  it  to  be  too  nice  and  subtle  for  practice. 

I  trust  that  the  Comptroller,  on  mature  considera- 
tion, will  regret  the  distinction.  You  will  please  to 
communicate  to  him  this  letter,  that  he  may  see  the 
reasoning  on  which  I  gave  my  sanction  to  Captain 
Ellery  for  the  expenditure  which  he  has  made.  It 
may  be  depended  upon  that  the  business  of  the  de- 
partment absolutely  required  it. 

With  great  consideration,  etc. 

THE  PAYMASTER-GENERAL. 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  221 

HAMILTON   TO    RIVARDI 

CAMP,  SCOTCH  PLAINS,  May  31,  1800. 

SIR: — I  have  received  your  letter  of  the  i5th 
instant. 

As  we  live  in  a  jealous  country,  and  in  jealous 
times,  a  visit  from  Governor  Hunter  and  the  Duke 
of  Kent  is  not  to  be  courted. 

If,  however,  circumstances  should  occur  in  which 
the  thing  cannot  be  avoided  without  a  breach  of 
politeness  or  liberality,  it  must  be  met  with  a  good 
grace.  With  this  caution,  I  leave  the  matter  to  your 
prudence  and  delicacy. 

If  a  visit  shall  take  place,  the  same  ceremonies  are 
to  be  observed  towards  the  Governor,  as  would  be 
observed  towards  a  similar  character  in  our  own 
country.  That  is,  he  will  be  received  by  the  garri- 
son with  presented  arms — officers  and  colors  saluting, 
and  music  playing.  In  the  reception  of  the  Duke  of 
Kent,  there  will  be  the  additional  ceremonies  of  a 
discharge  of  artillery,  and  the  honors  of  the  flag. 

Under  the  circumstances  stated,  I  consent  to  your 
taking  an  additional  servant  from  the  garrison. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

NEW  YORK,  June  28,  1800. 

SIR: — An  extraordinary  pressure  of  business  since 
the  receipt  of  your  letter  of  the  loth  instant,  has 
delayed  a  reply  to  that  part  of  it  which  respects  the 
rule  of  promotion. 

This  rule  was  not  adopted  on  my  recommendation 


222  Alexander  Hamilton 

singly,  but  on  the  recommendation  of  the  Comman- 
der-in-Chief,  supported  by  the  opinion  of  General 
Pinckney  and  myself. 

Of  its  expediency  with  regard  to  the  corps  of  artil- 
lerists and  engineers,  I  have  always  had  some  doubt. 

The  smallness  of  that  corps  in  point  of  number 
avoids  the  inconvenience  of  a  lineal  promotion  of 
captains.  The  nature  of  its  service,  almost  always 
by  detachments,  causes  the  reason  for  a  different 
mode  to  be  inapplicable  to  it,  and  the  scientific 
nature  of  the  corps  strengthens  the  inducements  to 
a  strict  succession  according  to  seniority. 

But  a  uniform  rule  was  thought  most  eligible ;  and 
I  have  not  the  least  doubt  that  the  rule  of  promotion, 
regimentally  to  the  rank  of  majority,  inclusively,  is 
the  best  with  regard  to  the  infantry  and  cavalry. 

In  corps  which  act  collectively,  there  is  an  advan- 
tage in  keeping  the  men  as  much  as  possible  with  the 
officers  to  whom  they  have  been  accustomed.  As 
often  as  you  bring  an  officer  from  another  regiment 
the  advantage  is  lost. 

But  more  justice  is  done  by  a  regimental  promo- 
tion than  by  any  other  mode.  Corps  in  active  serv- 
ice are,  in  various  ways,  subject  to  losses  in  a  much 
greater  degree  than  those  in  a  state  of  repose.  It 
is  justly  congenial  with  the  natural  feelings  of  the 
human  heart,  and  an  incentive  to  exertion,  that  pro- 
motion should  keep  pace  with  danger  and  suffering. 

If,  when  a  regiment  had  been  half  destroyed  by  a 
bloody  action,  the  advancement  of  all  the  remaining 
officers  was  impeded  by  bringing  captains  from  garri- 
sons perhaps  a  thousand  miles  off,  the  effect  upon 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  223 

those  officers  would  be  very  discouraging,  and  the 
influence  upon  the  service  very  inauspicious. 

It  may  be  asked,  Why  not  apply  this  reasoning 
to  the  field-officers?  The  answer  is,  that  when  the 
grade  becomes  of  this  importance  it  carries  with  it 
a  tenaciousness  of  the  principle  of  promotion  by 
seniority;  and  the  whole  number  not  being  very 
considerable,  the  delay  of  lineal  promotion  is  less 
sensibly  felt  and  the  effect  less  extensive. 

Balancing  the  opposite  considerations,  it  is  judged 
the  least  inconvenient  to  regulate  the  higher  grades 
by  a  lineal  promotion. 

You  have  herewith  a  report  of  Major  Hoops  con- 
cerning the  late  disturbance  at  West  Point. 

North  has  since  set  on  foot  criminal  prosecutions 
against  Captain  Stille  and  several  of  his  men  for  riot 
and  theft.  A  hot-headed  magistrate,  without  the 
decency  of  a  previous  resort  to  higher  authority, 
issued  a  warrant,  upon  which  the  captain  and  those 
men  were  apprehended,  and  after  a  refusal  to  bail 
them,  committed  them  to  the  common  jail  of  the 
county.  On  the  representation  of  the  district-at- 
torney, a  habeas  corpus  was  issued  by  our  Supreme 
Court,  and  the  prisoners  have  all  been  liberated  on 
easy  bail.  The  honor  and  success  of  the  service  re- 
quire absolutely  that  this  affair  should  be  probed 
with  all  possible  attention.  I  have  expressed  this 
opinion ;  you  may  perhaps  think  it  expedient  to  con- 
firm the  sentiment. 


224  Alexander  Hamilton 

GENERAL  ORDER 

July,  1800. 

Major-General  Hamilton  has  it  in  command  from 
the  President  of  the  United  States,  to  assure  the 
officers  and  men  of  the  corps  which  are  about  to  re- 
tire from  the  service,  that  he  entertains  a  strong 
sense  of  the  laudable  zeal  by  which  they  were  induced 
to  take  the  field  at  the  appearance  of  danger  to  their 
country,  and  of  their  good  conduct  in  every  respect, 
since  they  have  been  in  the  service;  and  that  he 
deeply  regrets  any  inconvenience  which  may  result 
to  any  of  them  from  an  anticipated  dissolution  of 
their  services;  that  he  doubts  not  their  patriotism 
will  lead  them  to  make  a  just  construction  of  the 
motives  of  the  government ;  and  that  he  relies  firmly 
upon  them  as  the  zealous  defenders  of  their  country 
in  any  future  emergency. 

The  Major-General  is  happy  to  be  the  organ  of 
this  expression  of  the  sentiments  of  the  President. 
To  add  the  assurance  of  his  high  sense  of  their  merits, 
is  a  tribute  due  to  them  and  to  justice.  He  cherishes 
a  deep  sympathy  in  the  feelings  which  naturally 
actuate  them  at  so  interesting  a  moment,  and  he  en- 
treats them  to  be  persuaded  that  his  warm  affection 
will  follow  them,  wheresoever  they  may  be. 


HAMILTON  TO  McHENRY 

July  2,  1800. 

SIR: — From  the  terms  of  the  act  disbanding  the 
additional  army  and  correspondence  with  the  De- 
partment of  War,  I  consider  our  military  operations 


Hamilton  to  McHenry  225 

ceased.  When,  therefore,  any  remnants  of  the  busi- 
ness formerly  under  my  superintendence  present 
themselves,  I  can  only  lay  them  before  you  for  your 
consideration  and  decision. 

In  pursuance  of  this  idea  I  send  you  the  inclosed 
account. 

VOL.  VII.— 15. 


THE  JEFFERSON  CONTROVERSY 


227 


THE  JEFFERSON  CONTROVERSY1 


For  the  Gazette  of  the  United  States. 

July  25,  1792. 

MR.  FENNO: 

The  editor  of  the  National  Gazette  receives  a  salary 
from  government. 

Quere. — Whether  this  salary  is  paid  him  for  trans- 
lations, or  for  publications,  the  design  of  which  is  to 
vilify  those  to  whom  the  voice  of  the  people  has  com- 
mitted the  administration  of  our  public  affairs — to 
oppose  the  measures  of  government,  and,  by  false 
insinuations,  to  disturb  the  public  peace? 

In  common  life  it  is  thought  ungrateful  for  a  man 
to  bite  the  hand  that  puts  bread  in  his  mouth;  but 
if  the  man  is  hired  to  do  it,  the  case  is  altered. 

T.  L. 

1  The  enmity  between  Jefferson  and  Hamilton  had  been  smouldering 
for  some  time,  when  Philip  Freneau  was  made  a  translating  clerk  in 
Jefferson's  department,  and  thence  continued  his  attacks  upon  the 
Administration,  as  editor  of  the  National  Gazette.  Knowing  Jeffer- 
son's hostility,  Hamilton  proceeded  to  answer  the  attacks  of  the  clerk, 
and  made  his  own  articles  the  vehicle  for  a  similar  assault  upon  the 
Secretary  of  State.  This  personal  controversy  has  an  important  bear- 
ing upon  the  history  and  development  of  parties,  and  whatever  we 
may  think  of  the  taste  displayed  by  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  in 
entering  upon  such  a  conflict,  there  can  be  no  question  of  the  ability  of 
his  letters. 

229 


230  Alexander  Hamilton 

AN    AMERICAN 
For  the  Gazette  of  the  United  States. 

I 

August  4,  1792. 

MR.  FENNO: 

It  was  easy  to  foresee,  when  the  hint  appeared  in 
your  Gazette  of  the  25th  July,  that  the  editor  of  the 
National  Gazette  received  a  salary  from  the  general 
government,  that  advantage  would  be  taken  of  its 
want  of  explicitness  and  particularity,  to  make  the 
circumstance  matter  of  merit  in  Mr.  Freneau,  and 
an  argument  of  his  independent  disinterestedness. 
Such  a  turn  of  the  business  cannot  be  permitted  to 
succeed.  It  is  now  necessary  that  the  whole  truth 
should  be  told,  and  that  the  real  state  of  the  affair 
should  be  well  understood. 

Mr.  Freneau,  before  he  came  to  this  city  to  conduct 
the  National  Gazette,  was  employed  by  Childs  & 
Swaine,  printers  of  the  Daily  Advertiser,  in  New 
York,  in  the  capacity  of  editor  or  superintendent. 

A  paper  more  devoted  to  the  views  of  a  certain 
party,  of  which  Mr.  Jefferson  is  the  head,  than  any 
to  be  found  in  this  city,  was  wanted.  Mr.  Freneau 
was  thought  a  fit  instrument;  a  negotiation  was 
opened  with  him  which  ended  in  the  establishment 
of  the  National  Gazette,  under  his  direction. 

Mr.  Freneau  came  here,  at  once  editor  of  the 
National  Gazette  and  clerk  for  foreign  languages  in 
the  department  of  Mr.  Jefferson,  Secretary  of  State ; 
an  experiment  somewhat  new  in  the  history  of 
political  manoeuvres  in  this  country:  a  newspaper 
instituted  by  a  public  officer,  and  the  editor  of  it 


An  American  231 

regularly  pensioned  with  the  public  money  in  the  dis- 
posal of  that  officer ;  an  example  savoring  not  a  little 
of  that  spirit  which,  in  the  enumeration  of  European 
abuses,  is  the  continual  theme  of  declamatory  cen- 
sure ;  an  example  which  could  not  have  been  set  by 
the  head  of  any  other  department,  without  having 
long  since  rung  throughout  the  United  States. 

Mr.  Freneau  is  not,  then,  as  he  would  have  it  sup- 
posed, the  independent  editor  of  a  newspaper,  who, 
though  receiving  a  salary  from  government,  has  firm- 
ness enough  to  expose  its  mal-administration :  he  is 
the  faithful  and  devoted  servant  of  the  head  of  a 
party,  from  whose  hands  he  receives  the  boon.  The 
whole  complexion  of  his  paper  exhibits  a  decisive  in- 
ternal evidence  of  the  influence  of  that  patronage 
under  which  he  acts. 

Whether  the  services  rendered  by  him  are  equiva- 
lent to  the  compensation  he  receives,  is  best  known 
to  his  employer  and  himself ;  there  is,  however,  some 
room  to  doubt.  It  is  well  known  that  his  employer 
is,  himself,  well  acquainted  with  the  French  lan- 
guage, the  only  one  of  which  Mr.  Freneau  is  the 
translator,  and  it  may  be  a  question  how  often  his 
aid  is  necessary. 

It  is  somewhat  singular,  too,  that  a  man  acquainted 
with  but  one  foreign  language,  engaged  in  an  occupa- 
tion which,  it  may  be  presumed,  demands  his  whole 
time  and  attention — the  editor  of  a  newspaper, — 
should  be  the  person  selected  as  the  clerk  for  foreign 
languages  in  the  department  of  the  United  States  for 
foreign  affairs.  Could  no  person  be  found  acquainted 
with  more  than  one  foreign  language,  and  who  in  so 


232  Alexander  Hamilton 

confidential  a  trust  could  have  been  regularly  at- 
tached to,  and  in  the  constant  employ  of,  the  de- 
partment, as  well  as  immediately  under  the  eye  of 
the  head  of  it? 

But  it  may  be  asked — is  it  possible  that  Mr.  Jeffer- 
son, the  head  of  a  principal  department  of  the  gov- 
ernment, can  be  the  patron  of  a  paper,  the  evident 
object  of  which  is  to  decry  the  government  and  its 
measures?  If  he  disapproves  of  the  government  it- 
self, and  thinks  it  deserving  of  his  opposition,  can 
he  reconcile  it  to  his  own  personal  dignity,  and  the 
principles  of  probity,  to  hold  an  office  under  it,  and 
employ  the  means  of  official  influence  in  that  oppo- 
sition? If  he  disapproves  of  the  leading  measures 
which  have  been  adopted  in  the  course  of  its  admin- 
istration, can  he  reconcile  it  with  the  principles  of 
delicacy  and  propriety,  to  hold  a  place  in  that  ad- 
ministration, and  at  the  same  time  to  be  instru- 
mental in  vilifying  measures  which  have  been  adopted 
by  majorities  of  both  branches  of  the  Legislature, 
and  sanctioned  by  the  Chief  Magistrate  of  the  Union? 

These  questions  would  certainly  be  natural.  An 
answer  might  be  left  to  the  facts  which  establish 
the  relation  between  the  Secretary  of  State  and  the 
editor  of  the  National  Gazette  as  the  text,  and  to  the 
general  tenor  of  that  paper,  as  the  commentary. 
Let  any  intelligent  man  read  the  paper  from  the 
commencement  of  it,  and  let  him  determine  for  him- 
self whether  it  be  not  a  paper  virulently  hostile  to  the 
government  and  its  measures.  Let  him  then  ask 
himself  whether,  considering  the  connection  which 
has  subsisted  between  the  Secretary  of  State  and 


An  American  233 

the  editor  of  that  paper,  coeval  with  its  first  estab- 
lishment, it  be  probable  that  the  complexion  of  the 
paper  is  contrary  to  the  views  of  that  officer. 

If  he  wishes  for  a  confirmation  of  the  inference 
which  he  cannot  fail  to  draw,  as  a  probable  one,  let 
him  be  informed  in  addition: 

i  st.  That  while  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States  was  depending  before  the  people  of  this 
country  for  their  consideration  and  decision,  Mr. 
Jefferson,  being  in  France,  was  opposed  to  it  in  some 
of  its  most  important  features,  and  wrote  his  objec- 
tions to  some  of  his  friends  in  Virginia.  That  he 
at  first  went  so  far  as  to  discountenance  its  adoption, 
though  he  afterwards  recommended  it,  on  the  ground 
of  expediency  in  certain  contingencies. 

2d.  That  he  is  the  declared  opponent  of  almost  all 
the  important  measures  which  have  been  devised  by 
the  government,  more  especially  the  provision  which 
has  been  made  for  the  public  debt,  the  institution  of 
the  Bank  of  the  United  States,  and  such  other  meas- 
ures as  relate  to  the  public  credit,  and  the  finances 
of  the  United  States. 

It  is  proper  that  these  facts  should  be  known,  for 
if  the  people  of  the  United  States  believe,  that  their 
happiness  and  their  safety  are  connected  with  the 
existence  and  maintenance  of  an  efficient  national  or 
federal  government;  if  they  continue  to  think  that 
which  they  have  created  and  established  worthy  of 
their  confidence — if  they  are  willing  that  the  powers 
they  have  granted  to  it  should  be  exercised  with 
sufficient  latitude  to  attain  the  ends  they  had  in  view 
in  granting  them,  and  to  do  the  essential  business  of 


234  Alexander  Hamilton 

the  nation ;  if  they  feel  an  honest  pride  in  seeing  the 
credit  of  their  country,  so  lately  prostrate,  elevated 
to  an  equal  station  with  that  of  any  nation  upon 
earth ;  if  they  are  conscious  that  their  own  import- 
ance is  increased  by  the  increased  respectability  of 
their  country,  which  from  an  abject  and  degraded 
state,  owing  to  the  want  of  government,  has,  by  the 
establishment  of  a  wise  Constitution,  and  the  meas- 
ures which  have  been  pursued  under  it,  become  a 
theme  for  the  praise  and  admiration  of  mankind ;  if 
they  experience  that  their  own  situation  is  improved 
and  improving  —  that  commerce  and  navigation 
have  advanced,  that  manufactures  are  progress- 
ive— that  agriculture  is  thriving — that  property  is 
more  secure  than  it  was — industry  more  certain  of 
a  real,  not  nominal  reward — personal  liberty  per- 
fectly protected — that,  notwithstanding  the  un- 
avoidable demands  upon  them  to  satisfy  the  justice, 
retrieve  the  reputation,  and  answer  the  exigencies  of 
the  country,  they  are  either  less  burthened  than  they 
were,  or  more  equal  to  the  burthen  they  have  to 
sustain; — if  these  are  their  opinions  and  their  ex- 
perience, let  them  know  and  understand,  that  the 
sentiments  of  the  officer  who  has  been  mentioned— 
both  as  to  the  principles  and  the  practice  of  the  Con- 
stitution which  was  framed  by  them,  and  has  been 
administered  by  their  representatives,  freely  chosen 
—are  essentially  different  from  theirs. 

If,  on  the  contrary,  the  people  of  the  United 
States  are  of  opinion,  that  they  erred  in  adopting 
their  present  Constitution — that  it  contains  per- 
nicious principles  and  dangerous  powers — that  it 


An  American  235 

has  been  administered  injudiciously  and  wickedly; 
that  men  whose  abilities  and  patriotism  were  tried 
in  the  worst  of  times,  have  entered  into  a  league  to 
deceive,  defraud,  and  oppress  them;  that  they  are 
really  oppressed  and  ruined,  or  in  imminent  danger 
of  being  so ;  if  they  think  the  preservation  of  national 
union  a  matter  of  no  or  small  consequence ;  if  they 
are  willing  to  return  to  the  situation  from  which 
they  have  escaped,  and  to  strip  the  government  of 
some  of  the  most  necessary  powers  with  which  they 
have  clothed  it;  if  they  are  desirous  that  those 
which  may  be  permitted  to  remain  should  be  frit- 
tered away  by  a  narrow,  timid,  and  feeble  exercise 
of  them;  if  they  are  disposed  to  see  the  national 
government  transformed  into  the  skeleton  of  power ; 
if  they  are  persuaded  that  nations  are  under  no 
ties  of  moral  obligation — that  public  credit  is  use- 
less, or  something  worse — that  public  debts  may 
be  paid  or  cancelled  at  pleasure — that  when  a  pro- 
vision is  not  likely  to  be  made  for  them,  the  dis- 
contents to  be  expected  from  the  omission  may 
honestly  be  transferred  from  a  government  able  to 
vindicate  its  rights  to  the  breasts  of  individuals 
who  may  first  be  encouraged  to  become  the  sub- 
stitutes to  the  original  creditors  and  may  after- 
wards be  defrauded  without  danger1 ;  if  for  national 
union,  national  respectability,  public  order,  and 
public  credit,  they  are  willing  to  substitute  national 

1  Such  was  the  advice  given  to  Congress  by  Mr.  Jefferson,  when 
Minister  Plenipotentiary  to  the  court  of  France,  respecting  the  debt 
due  to  the  French  nation.  The  precise  terms  are  not  recollected,  but 
the  substance  may  be  depended  upon.  The  poor  Hollanders  were  to 
be  victims. 


236  Alexander  Hamilton 

disunion,  national  insignificance,  public  disorder,  and 
discredit,  then  let  them  unite  their  acclamations  and 
plaudits  in  favor  of  Mr.  Jefferson;  let  him  be  the 
toast  of  every  political  club,  and  the  theme  of  every 
popular  huzza ;  for  to  those  points,  without  examin- 
ing his  motives,  do  the  real  or  pretended  political 
tenets  of  that  gentleman  most  assuredly  tend. 

These  strictures  are  made  from  a  conviction  that 
it  is  important  to  the  people  to  know  the  characters 
intrusted  with  their  public  affairs. 

As  Mr.  Jefferson  is  emulous  of  being  the  head  of  a 
party  whose  politics  have  ever  aimed  at  depressing 
the  national  authority,  let  him  enjoy  all  the  glory  and 
all  the  advantage  of  it.  But  let  it  at  the  same  time 
be  understood  by  those  who  are  persuaded  that  the 
real  and  permanent  welfare  of  the  country  is  to  be 
promoted  by  other  means,  that  such  are  the  views 
by  which  he  is  actuated. 

AN  AMERICAN. 


ii 

August  ii,  1792. 

Facts,  Mr.  Fenno,  speak  louder  than  words,  and, 
under  certain  circumstances,  louder  than  oaths.  The 
editor  of  the  National  Gazette  must  not  think  to 
swear  away  their  efficacy.  If  he  is  truly,  as  they 
announce,  the  pensioned  tool  of  the  public  character 
who  has  been  named,  no  violation  of  truth  in  any 
shape  ought  to  astonish;  equivocations  and  mental 
reservations  are  the  too  common  refuge  of  minds 
struggling  to  escape  from  disgraceful  imputations. 

It  may  be  very  true,  in  a  literal  sense,  that  no 


An  American  237 

negotiation  was  ever  opened  with  Mr.  Freneau  by 
Thomas  Jefferson,  Secretary  of  State,  and  yet  it  may 
be  very  certain,  that  a  negotiation  was  opened  with 
him,  directly  or  circuitously,  by  a  particular  friend  T 
of  that  officer,  and  expectation  given  of  his  patron- 
age and  encouragement. 

It  may  be  very  true,  in  the  same  sense,  that  Mr. 
Freneau 's  coming  to  the  city  of  Philadelphia,  as  pub- 
lisher of  a  newspaper,  was  at  no  time  urged,  advised, 
or  influenced,  by  the  same  officer,  and  yet  it  may  be 
equally  a  fact,  that  it  was  urged,  advised,  and  influ- 
enced by  a  friend  of  his,  in  concert  with  him,  and 
to  answer  his  views,  and  with  authority  to  engage 
his  assistance  and  support.  It  may  in  the  strictest 
sense  be  true,  that  Mr.  Freneau 's  coming  to  Phila- 
delphia was  his  own  voluntary  act;  and  yet  true  that 
he  came  from  interested  motives,  and  to  do  the  work 
of  a  party ;  for  a  man  acts  not  the  less  voluntarily  be- 
cause he  yields  to  considerations  of  interest.  It  may 
be  even  true,  that  the  editor  of  the  National  Gazette 
was  never  either  directed,  controlled,  or  attempted 
to  be  influenced  in  any  manner,  either  by  the  Secre- 
tary of  State,  or  any  of  his  friends ;  and  yet  it  may, 
in  the  strongest  sense,  be  true,  that  under  the  influ- 
ence of  the  emoluments  received  from  that  officer, 
he  has  acted  in  precise  conformity  to  his  known 
principles  and  views. 

As  to  the  assertion,  that  not  a  single  line  in  the 
National  Gazette  was  ever,  directly  or  indirectly,  writ- 

1  Mr.  Madison  is  the  "particular  friend"  referred  to.  He  brought 
Freneau  to  Philadelphia,  encouraged  him  to  start  his  newspaper,  and 
helped  him  to  obtain  subscribers.  Madison,  in  his  letters,  makes  no 
secrecy  of  his  agency  in  the  affair. 


238  Alexander  Hamilton 

ten,  dictated,  or  composed  for  it,  by  the  Secretary  of 
State,  it  is  a  shocking  instance  of  rashness  and  levity. 
Unless  Mr.  Freneau  be  himself  the  author  of  every 
line  which  has  been  contained  in  every  one  of  his 
papers  (a  thing  not  to  be  believed),  it  is  impossible 
that  he  can  know  that  none  has  ever  been  directly  or 
indirectly  written,  dictated,  or  composed  by  the  offi- 
cer in  question.  And  if  he  had  been  as  scrupulous 
about  an  oath  as  he  ought  to  have  been,  he  never 
could  have  sworn  so  positively  as  he  has  done,  to 
a  thing  which  it  was  impossible  for  him  to  know; 
temerity  like  this  would  invalidate  his  testimony  in 
a  court  of  justice,  if  he  were  even,  as  he  is  not  in  the 
present  case,  a  disinterested  witness. 

No,  Mr.  Freneau,  this  is  not  the  way  to  exculpate 
yourself  before  a  judicious  public,  from  the  conclu- 
sions which  are  to  be  drawn  from  the  most  convincing 
facts.  Nor  can  it  be  believed,  from  any  thing  that 
you  have  either  sworn  or  said,  that  the  whole  of  what 
has  been  alleged  is  " a  lie." 

The  material  facts  which  have  been  alleged,  and 
may  be  added  in  confirmation,  are  either  acknow- 
ledged, or  such  as  you  dare  not  deny ;  and  they  prove 
decisively  your  improper  connection  with  the  Secre- 
tary of  State,  and  the  influence  of  that  connection 
upon  your  press. 

It  is  a  fact  which  you  have  acknowledged,  that 
you  receive  a  regular  salary  from  the  Secretary  of 
State,  as  clerk  in  his  department  for  foreign  lan- 
guages, while  you  pretend  not  to  act  in  any  other  ca- 
pacity than  that  of  translator  of  one  foreign  language. 

It  is  a  fact  which  you  tacitly  concede,  that  you 


An  American  239 

came  from  New  York,  where  you  were  in  the  capacity 
of  an  editor  or  director  of  a  newspaper,  to  become  in 
this  city  editor  of  the  National  Gazette. 

It  is  a  fact  which  you  dare  not  deny,  that  your 
appointment  as  clerk  for  foreign  languages  was 
contemporary  with  or  rather  antecedent  to  the -com- 
mencement of  your  paper.  The  first  number  of  your 
paper  is  dated  3ist  of  October,  1791,  your  appoint- 
ment was  announced  in  the  Daily  Advertiser  of  Octo- 
ber 26,  1791  (a  paper  printed  in  New  York),  in  the 
following  terms:  "We  hear  from  Philadelphia  that 
the  Hon.  Thomas  Jefferson,  Esq.,  Secretary  of  State 
for  the  United  States,  has  appointed  Captain  Philip 
Freneau,  interpreter  of  the  French  language  for  the 
Department  of  State."  x 

It  is  a  fact,  which  the  debates  in  the  Virginia  Con- 
vention will  testify,  that  Mr.  Jefferson  was  in  the 
origin  opposed  to  the  present  Constitution  of  the 
United  States. 

It  is  a  fact  known  to  every  man  who  approaches 
that  officer  (for  he  takes  no  pains  to  conceal  it,  and 
will  not  thank  you  to  deny  it),  that  he  arraigns  the 
principal  measures  of  the  government,  and  it  may  be 
added,  with  indiscreet  if  not  indecent  warmth. 

It  is  a  fact  which  results  from  the  whole  complexion 
of  your  paper,  that  it  is  a  paper  intemperatively  de- 
voted to  the  abuse  of  the  government,  and  all  the 
conspicuous  actors  in  it,  except  the  Secretary  of 
State  and  his  coadjutors,  who  are  the  constant  theme 
of  your  panegyric.  Even  the  illustrious  Patriot  who 

1  It  is  believed  that  Mr.  Freneau  could  throw  light  upon  this  ques- 
tion, by  naming  the  day  when  his  salary  commenced. 


240  Alexander  Hamilton 

presides  at  the  head  of  the  government  has  not 
escaped  your  envenomed  shafts. 

And  from  these  facts  the  inferences  which  have  been 
drawn  are  irresistible. 

The  circumstances  of  your  having  come  from  an- 
other State  to  set  up  and  conduct  a  new  paper;  the 
circumstance  of  the  editor  of  that  new  paper  being 
appointed  a  clerk  in  the  Department  of  State;  the 
coincidence  in  point  of  time  of  that  appointment  with 
the  commencement  of  your  paper,  or,  to  speak  more 
correctly,  its  precedency;  the  conformity  between  the 
complexion  of  your  paper,  and  the  known  politics  of 
the  head  of  the  department  who  employed  you,— 
these  circumstances,  collectively,  leave  no  doubt  of 
your  true  situation;  the  conviction  arising  from 
them  is  too  strong  to  be  weakened  by  any  of  those 
bold  or  even  solemn  declarations,  which  are  among  the 
hackneyed  tricks  employed  by  the  purists  in  politics, 
of  every  country  and  age,  to  cheat  the  people  into  a 
belief  of  their  superior  sanctity,  integrity,  and  virtue. 

If  you  had  been  previously  the  conductor  of  a 
newspaper  in  this  city — if  your  appointment  had 
been  any  considerable  time  subsequent  to  the  institu- 
tion of  your  paper,  there  might  have  been  some  room 
for  subterfuge;  but  as  matters  stand,  you  have  no 
possible  escape. 

The  fact  of  the  preliminary  negotiation  which 
brought  you  to  this  city  is  not  material,  when  so 
many  other  facts  presupposing  it  occur;  but  even 
this,  if  the  scruples  of  family  connection,  or  the  dread 
of  party  resentment,  do  not  prevent  the  evidence 
being  brought  forward,  will  be  proved  incontestably ; 


An  American  241 

not,  indeed,  a  negotiation  in  which  Thomas  Jefferson, 
Secretary  of  State,  was  the  immediate  agent,  but  one 
carried  on  by  a  very  powerful,  influential,  and  con- 
fidential friend  and  associate  of  that  gentleman. 

That  officer  has  had  too  considerable  a  part  of  his 
political  education  amidst  the  intrigues  of  a  European 
court,  to  hazard  a  direct  personal  commitment  in 
such  a  case ;  he  knows  how  to  put  a  man  in  a  situa- 
tion calculated  to  produce  all  the  effects  he  desires 
without  the  gross  and  awkward  formality  of  telling 
him:  "  Sir,  I  mean  to  hire  you  for  this  purpose." 

It  is  impossible  for  a  correct  mind  not  to  pro- 
nounce that,  in  the  abstract,  a  connection  like  that 
which  is  acknowledged  to  subsist  between  you  and 
Mr.  Jefferson,  between  the  editor  of  a  newspaper  and 
the  head  of  a  department  of  the  government,  is  indeli- 
cate and  unfit,  and  consequently  of  a  nature  to  justify 
suspicion. 

A  connection  of  that  sort  in  a  free  country  is  a 
pernicious  precedent,  inconsistent  with  those  preten- 
sions to  extraordinary  republican  purity,  of  which  so 
suspicious  a  parade  is  upon  every  occasion  exhibited. 

The  apology  you  attempt  for  it  is  ill-founded  and 
inadmissible;  there  is  no  law  which  annexes  a  par- 
ticular salary  to  the  clerkship  in  question — the  ap- 
pointment is  under  the  general  authority  given  to 
the  head  of  the  department,  to  appoint  clerks  with 
salaries  not  exceeding  aggregatively  five  hundred  dol- 
lars to  each;  there  is  therefore  no  restriction  to  the 
sum  you  mention  to  induce,  as  matter  of  necessity,  the 
employment  of  a  person  engaged  in  other  occupa- 
tions, and  not  ordinarily  and  regularly  attached  to 

VOL.  vn. — 16. 


242  Alexander  Hamilton 

the  department.  Five  hundred  dollars,  or  even 
more,  might  be  legally  given,  for  a  clerk,  competent 
to  the  duty,  and  if  it  was  not  sufficient  wholly  to 
employ  him,  his  surplus  time  might  be  dedicated  to 
other  business  of  the  department — nor  could  there 
have  been  any  mighty  difficulty  in  finding  a  clerk  so 
qualified. 

But  if  there  had  been  such  difficulty,  some  other 
character  should  undoubtedly  have  been  found ;  the 
precedent  of  such  a  species  of  influence  erected  over 
the  press  ought  to  have  been  avoided.  This  is  so 
obvious,  that  the  not  having  avoided  it  is  a  proof  of 
sinister  design. 

The  employment  of  Mr.  Pintard,  by  the  Secretary 
of  State,  was  a  natural  consequence  of  particular 
situation.  Mr.  Pintard,  if  I  am  rightly  informed, 
had  been  employed  in  the  same  capacity  under  the 
old  government,  and  it  was  natural  enough  to  con- 
tinue him  in  the  old  occupation  and  employment; 
but  Mr.  Pintard  was  not  ike  printer  of  a  gazette. 

These  strictures,  though  involving  Mr.  Freneau,  it 
shall  be  confessed,  have  been  drawn  forth  principally 
with  a  view  to  a  character  of  greater  importance 
in  the  community.  They  aim  at  exposing  a  public 
officer  who  is  too  little  scrupled  to  embarrass  and  dis- 
parage the  government  of  which  he  is  a  member,  and 
who  has  been  the  prompter,  open  or  secret,  of  un- 
warrantable aspersions  on  men  who,  so  long  as  ac- 
tions, not  merely  professions,  shall  be  the  true  test  of 
patriotism  and  integrity,  need  never  decline  a  com- 
parison with  him  of  their  titles  to  the  public  esteem. 

AN  AMERICAN. 


An  American  243 

in 

August  18,  1792. 

The  charges  which  have  been  brought  against  the 
editor  of  the  National  Gazette,  as  he  himself  states 
them  to  be,  are  no  otherwise  personal  charges  than  as 
they  designate  the  person  against  whom  they  are 
made. 

In  their  application  to  Mr.  Freneau,  they  affect 
him  solely  in  his  capacity  of  editor  of  a  public  paper 
[which  may  justly  be  considered  as  a  public  capa- 
city], and  in  relation  to  matters  of  public  or  national 
concern.  It  is,  therefore,  a  mere  subterfuge  to  call 
them  personal  charges,  and  then  to  say  they  shall  not 
be  answered,  unless  the  author  of  them  will  come 
forward  to  support  them.  It  was  easily  anticipated 
that  he  might  have  good  reasons  for  not  discovering 
himself,  at  least  at  the  call  of  Mr.  Freneau,  and  it 
was  necessary  for  him  to  find  a  shelter.  What  else 
could  he  do?  The  charges  brought  against  him  are 
substantiated  by  facts,  some  of  them  acknowledged 
by  himself;  others  proved  by  a  reference  to  public 
documents,  and  to  his  own  paper;  others  of  general 
notoriety. 

The  inferences  from  these  facts  are  the  only  things 
that  remain  for  discussion,  and  these  so  naturally 
flow  from  the  premises  that  they  defy  the  arts  of 
sophistry  to  obscure  them.  The  expedient,  however, 
which  has  been  adopted  comes  rather  late,  con- 
sidering that  Mr.  Freneau  began  to  answer  even 
under  the  solemnities  of  an  oath. 

AN  AMERICAN. 


244  Alexander  Hamilton 

AMICUS 

September  n,  1792. 

A  writer  in  the  Gazette  of  Saturday  last,  after  sev- 
eral observations  with  regard  to  certain  charges 
which  have  been  lately  brought  forward  against  the 
Secretary  of  State,  proceeds  to  make  or  insinuate 
several  charges  against  another  political  character. 

As  to  the  observations  which  are  designed  to  ex- 
culpate the  Secretary  of  State,  I  shall  do  nothing 
more  than  refer  to  the  discussions  which  have  taken 
place,  and  appear  to  be  in  a  train  to  be  pursued  in 
the  Gazette  of  the  United  States. 

As  to  the  charges  which  have  been  brought  against 
the  other  public  character  alluded  to,  I  shall  assert, 
generally,  from  a  long,  intimate,  and  confidential  ac- 
quaintance with  him,  added  to  some  other  means  of 
information,  that  the  matters  charged,  as  far  as  they 
are  intelligible,  are  either  grossly  misrepresented  or 
palpably  untrue. 

A  part  of  them  is  of  a  nature  to  speak  for  itself 
without  comment,  the  malignity  and  turpitude  of  the 
accuser  denoting  clearly  the  personal  enemy  in  the 
garb  of  the  political  opponent. 

The  subject  and  the  situation  of  the  parties  natu- 
rally impose  silence,  but  this  is  not  the  first  attempt  of 
the  kind  that  has  been  made  fruitlessly  hitherto,  and 
I  doubt  not,  equally  fruitlessly  in  time  to  come.  An 
opinion  on  the  experience  of  fifteen  years,  the  great- 
est part  of  the  time  under  circumstances  affording 
the  best  opportunity  for  an  accurate  estimate  of 
character,  cannot  be  shaken  by  slanderous  surmises. 


Amicus  245 

The  charge  of  which  I  shall  take  more  particular 
notice,  is  contained  in  the  following  passage: 

"Let  him  explain  the  public  character,  who,  if 
uncontradicted  fame  is  to  be  regarded,  opposed  the 
Constitution  in  the  Grand  Convention,  because  it 
was  too  republican,  and  advocated  the  British  mon- 
archy as  the  perfect  standard  to  be  approached  as 
nearly  as  the  people  could  be  made  to  bear."  This  I 
affirm  to  be  a  gross  misrepresentation.  To  prove  it 
is  so,  it  were  sufficient  to  appeal  to  a  single  fact, 
namely,  that  the  gentleman  alluded  to  was  the  only 
member  from  the  State  tp  which  he  belonged  who 
signed  the  Constitution,  and  it  is  notorious,  against 
the  prevailing  weight  of  the  official  influence  of  the 
State,  and  against  what  would  probably  be  the 
opinion  of  a  large  majority  of  his  fellow-citizens, 
till  better  information  should  correct  their  first 
impressions. 

How,  then,  can  he  be  believed  to  have  opposed 
a  thing  which  he  actually  agreed  to,  and  that  in  so 
unsupported  a  situation,  and  under  circumstances 
of  such  peculiar  responsibility?  To  this  I  shall  add 
two  more  facts.  One,  that  the  member  in  question 
never  made  a  proposition  to  the  Convention  which 
was  not  conformable  to  the  republican  theory.  The 
other,  that  the  highest-toned  of  any  of  the  proposi- 
tions made  by  him  was  actually  voted  for  by  the 
representation  of  several  States,  including  some  of 
the  principal  ones;  and  including  individuals  who, 
in  the  estimation  of  those  who  deem  themselves 
the  only  republicans,  are  pre-eminent  for  republican 
character.  More  than  this  I  am  not  at  liberty  to  say. 


246  Alexander  Hamilton 

It  is  a  matter  generally  understood,  that  the  delib- 
erations of  the  Convention,  which  were  carried  on  in 
private,  were  to  remain  undisturbed.  And  every 
prudent  man  must  be  convinced  of  the  propriety 
both  of  the  one  and  the  other.  Had  the  delibera- 
tions been  open  while  going  on,  the  clamors  of  fac- 
tion would  have  prevented  any  satisfactory  result; 
had  they  been  afterwards  disclosed,  much  food  would 
have  been  afforded  to  inflammatory  declamation. 
Propositions  made  without  due  reflection,  and  per- 
haps abandoned  by  the  proposers  themselves,  on 
more  mature  reflection,  would  have  been  handles  for 
a  profusion  of  ill-natured  accusation. 

Every  infallible  declaimer,  taking  his  own  ideas 
as  the  perfect  standard,  would  have  railed  without 
measure  or  mercy  at  every  member  of  the  Conven- 
tion who  had  gone  a  single  line  beyond  his  standard. 

The  present  is  a  period  fruitful  in  accusation- 
much  anonymous  slander  has  been  and  will  be 
vented — no  man's  reputation  can  be  safe,  if  charges 
in  this  form  are  to  be  lightly  listened  to.  There  are 
but  two  kinds  of  anonymous  charges  that  can  merit 
attention:  where  the  evidence  goes  along  with  the 
charge ;  and  where  reference  is  made  to  specific  facts, 
the  evidence  of  the  truth  or  falsehood  of  which  is  in 
the  power  or  possession  of  the  party  accusing,  and 
he  at  liberty  to  make  a  free  use  of  it.  None  of  the 
charges  brought  forward  in  this  instance  falls  within 
either  of  these  rules. 

AMICUS. 


Catullus  to  Aristides  247 

CATULLUS    TO    ARISTIDES 
For  the  Gazette  of  the  United  States. 

I 

September  15,  1792. 

Though  there  would  be  no  great  hazard  of  mistake 
in  inferring  the  writer  of  the  paper  under  the  signa- 
ture of  " Aristides"  from  "the  appropriate  and 
prominent  features"  which  characterize  the  style  of 
that  paper;  yet  I  forbear  to  imitate  the  example 
which  has  been  set,  with  too  little  decorum,  by  nam- 
ing or  describing  the  supposed  author.  The  simili- 
tude of  style,  or  any  other  circumstance  merely 
probable,  is  too  slight  a  foundation  for  so  improper  a 
procedure. 

Peculiar  circumstances  which  it  is  not  necessary 
to  explain,  uniting  with  the  conjecture  which  is 
indulged  respecting  the  real  "Aristides,"  lead  to 
a  change  of  the  original  party  to  the  charges.  The 
discussion  will  be  taken  up  and  pursued  by  one  who 
is  willing  to  be  responsible  for  the  allegations  he  shall 
make,  and  who  consequently  will  not  refuse  to  be 
known  on  proper  terms  to  the  officer  concerned.  It 
is,  however,  not  meant  to  invite  inquiry  on  that  head. 
It  is  most  advisable  that  none  should  be  made.  For 
any  public  purpose,  none  will  be  requisite.  For  any 
personal  one,  none  will  be  proper.  What  shall  be 
said  will  merely  apply  to  public  conduct,  and  will  be 
supported  by  proof  and  argument. 

Why,  then,  it  may  be  asked,  the  intimation  of  a 
willingness  to  be  known,  if  required?  The  answer  is 
merely  to  put  an  end  to  the  epithets  "cowardly 


248  Alexander  Hamilton 

assassin/'  " striking  in  the  dark,"  and  other  tropes 
and  figures  of  a  similar  nature.  Some  rhetoric  may 
be  spoiled,  but  the  elucidation  of  truth  will  be 
promoted. 

It  occurs  at  once  to  an  observant  reader,  that 
"  Aristides"  passes  over,  in  total  silence,  the  leading 
article  of  charge  brought  by  "  An  American ' '  against 
Mr.  Jefferson,  namely:  That  he  is  the  institutes  and 
patron  of  a  certain  gazette  published  in  this  city,  the 
object  and  tendency  of  which  are  to  vilify  and  de- 
preciate the  government  of  the  United  States,  to 
misinterpret  and  traduce  the  administration  of  it, 
except  in  the  single  department  of  which  that  gentle- 
man is  the  head;  implicating  in  the  most  virulent 
censure  the  majorities  of  both  houses  of  Congress,  the 
heads  both  of  the  Treasury  and  War  departments, 
and  sparing  not  even  the  Chief  Magistrate  himself; 
that  in  the  support  of  this  paper,  thus  hostile  to  the 
government,  in  the  administration  of  which  he  holds 
so  important  a  trust,  he  has  not  scrupled  to  apply 
the  money  of  that  very  government,  departing  by 
this  conduct  from  the  rules  of  official  propriety  and 
obligation,  and  from  the  duty  of  a  discreet  and 
patriotic  citizen. 

This  is  the  leading  and  main  charge,  which  has 
been  brought  by  "An  American"  against  Mr.  Jeffer- 
son, which  he  supports  in  several  ways. 

i  st. — By  direct  proof  of  an  official  connection  be- 
tween the  Secretary  of  State  and  the  editor  of  the 
National  Gazette,  coeval  with,  or  rather  antecedent 
to,  the  -first  establishment  of  that  paper. 

2d. — By  the  suggestion  of  his  being  opposed  to  the 


Catullus  to  Aristides  249 

present  government  of  the  United  States,  while  it 
was  under  the  consideration  of  the  people. 

3d. — By  the  suggestion  of  his  being  opposed  to  the 
principal  measures  which  have  been  adopted  in  the 
course  of  its  administration,  particularly  those  relat- 
ing to  the  finances. 

The  object  of  the  above  recapitulation  is  to  show 
the  true  original  state  of  the  question,  in  order  that 
it  may  be  clearly  seen  how  entirely  "Aristides,"  in 
his  defence,  loses  sight  of  the  principal  point,  and 
contents  himself  with  an  indirect  endeavor  to  involve 
it  in  uncertainty,  by  disputing  or  denying  some 
positions  which  form  only  the  collateral  evidence. 

It  will  now  remain  to  see  how  the  charges  of  "  An 
American ' '  have  been  and  can  be  supported. 

As  to  the  connection  between  the  Secretary  of 
State  and  the  editor  of  the  National  Gazette,  neither 
of  the  following  facts  can  or  will  be  disputed.  If 
any  of  them  should  be  denied,  it  will  be  proved 
beyond  the  possibility  of  doubt : 

i  st. — That  the  editor  of  the  National  Gazette  is  a 
clerk  in  the  Department  of  State  for  foreign  lan- 
guages, and  as  such  receives  a  salary  of  two  hundred 
and  fifty  dollars  a  year. 

2d. — That  he  became  so,  antecedent  to  the  estab- 
lishment of  his  gazette,  having  actually  received  his 
salary  from  the  iyth  August,  1791,  and  not  having 
published  the  first  number  of  his  paper  till  the  3ist 
of  October  following. 

3d. — That  at  the  time  he  became  so,  there  was 
another  character,  a  clerk,  in  the  same  department, 
who  understood  the  French  language ;  and  that  the 


250  Alexander  Hamilton 

editor  of  the  National  Gazette  is  a  translator  of  that 
language  only. 

4th. — That  the  appointment  was  not  made  under 
any  special  provision,  marking  out  a  particular  clerk- 
ship of  the  kind,  its  duties,  or  its  emoluments;  but, 
under  a  general  authority  to  appoint  clerks,  and 
allow  them  salaries  not  exceeding  the  average  of  five 
hundred  dollars  to  each. 

5th. — That  the  editor  of  the  National  Gazette,  im- 
mediately preceding  the  establishment  of  that  paper, 
was  the  superintendent  or  conductor  of  a  paper  be- 
longing to  Childs  &  Swaine,  printed  at  New  York. 

These  are  the  facts:  the  conclusion  is  irresistible. 
The  secret  intentions  of  men  being  in  the  repositories 
of  their  own  breasts,  it  rarely  happens,  and  is  there- 
fore not  to  be  expected,  that  direct  and  positive 
proof  of  them  can  be  adduced. 

Presumptive  facts  and  circumstances  must  afford 
the  evidence ;  and  when  these  are  sufficiently  strong 
they  ought  to  decide. 

We  find  the  head  of  a  department  taking  the  editor 
of  a  gazette  into  his  employment,  as  a  clerk,  with 
a  stated  salary — not  for  any  special  purpose,  which 
could  not  have  been  accomplished  otherwise ;  for  he 
had,  at  the  time,  in  his  department,  a  clerk  who  was 
capable  of  performing  the  very  service  required,  and 
could  without  difficulty  have  procured  others  simi- 
larly qualified;  nor  from  any  particular  necessity 
arising  from  a  too  limited  allowance,  or  any  other 
cause;  for  he  had  it  in  his  power  to  allow  an  ade- 
quate compensation  to  a  character  who  might  have 
been  regularly  attached  to  the  department. 


Catullus  to  Aristides  251 

The  very  existence  of  such  a  connection,  then,  is 
alone  a  sufficient  foundation  for  believing  that  the 
design  of  the  arrangement  was  to  secure  an  influence 
over  the  paper,  the  editor  of  which  was  so  employed. 
But  the  circumstances  which  attend  it  explain  the 
nature  of  it  beyond  a  doubt.  That  which  has  been 
just  mentioned,  namely,  there  having  been  previ- 
ously a  clerk  in  the  department  qualified  to  render 
the  service,  is  a  weighty  one.  The  coming  of  a  new 
printer,  from  another  State,  to  institute  a  new  paper 
—his  having  been  appointed  clerk  in  the  department 
prior  to  his  removal  to  this  city — his  having  been 
compensated  before  he  was  even  present,  to  satisfy 
the  appearance  of  his  rendering  service, — these  cir- 
cumstances give  a  point  and  energy  to  the  language 
of  the  transaction  which  render  it  unequivocal. 
There  perhaps  never  was  a  more  flimsy  covering  for 
the  pensioning  of  a  printer.  Some  ostensible  ground 
for  giving  him  the  public  money  was  necessary  to  be 
contrived — the  clerkship  of  foreign  languages  was 
deemed  a  plausible  pretext.  But  no  man  acquainted 
with  human  nature,  or  with  the  ordinary  rules  of 
political  intrigue,  can  be  deceived  by  it. 

The  medium  of  negotiation  between  the  Secretary 
of  State  and  Mr.  Freneau,  in  order  to  the  institution 
of  his  paper,  is  known,  and  documents  are  possessed 
which  ascertain  the  person,  but  they  are  at  present 
withheld,  from  considerations  of  a  particular  nature. 
These  are  the  more  readily  yielded  to,  because  the 
facts  which  have  been  stated  render  it  unnecessary 
to  exhibit  them.  These  facts  prove,  to  the  satis- 
faction of  every  impartial  mind,  that  Mr.  Jefferson 


252  Alexander  Hamilton 

is  the  Institutor  and  Patron  of  the  National 
Gazette. 

As  to  the  complexion  and  tendency  of  that  gazette, 
a  reference  to  itself  is  sufficient.  No  man,  who  loves 
the  government,  or  is  a  friend  to  the  public  tran- 
quillity, but  must  reprobate  it  as  an  incendiary  and 
pernicious  publication,  and  condemn  the  auspices 
under  which  it  is  supported. 

In  another  paper,  the  charges  which  have  occa- 
sioned so  much  umbrage  to  "  Aristides ' '  will  be  more 
correctly  stated  and  enforced.  The  precise  terms  of 
the  advice  which  was  given  by  Mr.  Jefferson  to  Con- 
gress, respecting  the  transfer  of  the  French  debt  to 
a  company  of  Hollanders,  will  be  recited. 

This  characteristic  trait  in  the  political  principles 
of  that  gentleman,  will  be  submitted  to  the  honest 
feelings  not  only  of  the  great  body  of  the  yeomanry, 
to  whom  such  affected  appeals  are  so  often  made, 
but  to  honest  men  of  whatsoever  class  and  condition. 

CATULLUS. 


ii 

September  19,  1792. 

"An  American,"  to  confirm  the  inferences  result- 
ing from  the  official  connection  between  the  Secre- 
tary of  State  and  the  editor  of  the  National  Gazette, 
appeals  to  a  conformity  of  the  political  principles 
and  views  of  that  officer  with  those  which  are 
sedulously  inculcated  in  that  gazette.  If  this  con- 
formity exists,  it  certainly  affords  a  strong  presump- 
tion, in  aid  of  direct  facts,  of  the  operation  of  his 
influence  on  the  complexion  of  that  paper. 


Catullus  to  Aristides  253 

The  circumstances  of  conformity  alleged,  fall  under 
two  heads:  one,  that  the  Secretary  of  State  was 
in  the  origin  opposed  to  that  Constitution  which 
it  is  the  evident  object  of  the  National  Gazette  to 
discredit;  the  other,  that  he  has  been,  and  is,  op- 
posed to  those  measures  which  it  is  the  unremitted, 
and,  it  may  be  said,  the  avowed  endeavor  of  that 
paper  to  censure  and  subvert. 

In  contradiction  to  the  first  suggestion,  "  Aris- 
tides" cites  an  authority,  which  "  An  American"  ap- 
pears to  have  relied  upon  in  support  of  his  assertion : 
the  speech  of  Mr.  Pendleton  in  the  Convention  of 
Virginia.  Let  an  analysis  of  this  speech  show 
whether  it  supports  or  contradicts  the  assertion. 

Mr.  Pendleton  represents  a  certain  letter  of  Mr. 
Jefferson  as  containing  these  particulars:  ist.  A 
strong  wish  that  the  first  nine  conventions  may  accept 
the  new  Constitution,  because  it  would  secure  the 
good  it  contains,  which  is  great  and  important.  2d. 
A  wish  that  the  four  latest,  whichever  they  should 
be,  might  refuse  to  accede  to  it  till  amendments  were 
secured.  3d.  A  caution  to  take  care  that  no  objec- 
tion to  the  form  of  the  government  should  produce  a 
schism  in  the  Union;  which  Mr.  Jefferson  admits  to 
be  an  incurable  evil. 

From  this  it  appears  that,  though  Mr.  Jefferson  was 
of  opinion  that  the  Constitution  contained  "  great 
and  important  good,"  and  was  desirous  that  the  first 
nine  deliberating  States  should  consent  to  it  for  the 
sake  of  preserving  the  existence  of  the  Union,  yet  he 
had  strong  objections  to  the  Constitution ;  so  strong 
that  he  was  willing  to  risk  an  ultimate  dismemberment 


254  Alexander  Hamilton 

in  an  experiment  to  obtain  the  alterations  which 
he  deemed  necessary. 

If  the  four  last  deliberating  States  (particularly  if 
they  had  happened  to  be  States  in  geographical  con- 
tiguity, which  was  very  possible)  had  refused  to 
ratify  the  Constitution,  what  might  not  have  been 
the  consequence?  Who  knows  whether  the  assent- 
ing States  would  have  been  willing  to  have  been 
coerced  into  the  amendments  which  the  non-assenting 
States  might  have  been  supposed  to  dictate?  Cal- 
culating the  intrigues  and  machinations  which  were 
to  have  been  expected  to  stand  in  the  way,  who  can 
say,  if  even  two  thirds  of  both  houses  of  Congress 
should  have  been  found  willing  to  propose  that 
three  fourths  of  the  Legislatures,  or  conventions,  in 
three  fourths  of  the  States,  would  have  been  brought 
to  adopt  the  required  amendments? 

Could  any  thing  but  objections  to  the  Constitution 
of  the  most  serious  kind  have  justified  the  hazarding 
an  eventual  schism  in  the  UNION,  in  so  great  a  degree 
as  would  have  attended  an  adherence  to  the  advice 
given  by  Mr.  Jefferson  ?  Can  there  be  any  perversion 
of  truth  in  affirming  that  the  person  who  entertained 
those  objections  was  opposed  to  the  Constitution? 

The  opposition  which  was  experienced  in  every 
part  of  the  United  States,  acknowledged  the  neces- 
sity and  utility  of  the  Union;  and,  generally  speak- 
ing, that  the  Constitution  contained  many  valuable 
features;  contending  only  that  it  wanted  some 
essential  alterations  to  render  it  upon  the  whole  a 
safe  and  good  government. 

It  may  be  satisfactory  to  review  what  was  said  in 


Catullus  to  Aristides  255 

the  same  Convention  of  Virginia  by  some  other 
members  on  the  subject  of  the  letter  in  question. 

Mr.  Henry  (p.  109  of  the  "  Debates")  replies  thus 
to  Mr.  Pendleton: — "The  honorable  gentleman  has 
endeavored  to  explain  the  opinion  of  Mr.  Jefferson, 
our  common  friend,  into  an  advice  to  adopt  this  new 
government.  He  wishes  nine  States  to  adopt,  and 
that  four  States  may  be  found  somewhere  to  reject 
it.  Now,  sir,  I  say,  if  we  pursue  his  advice,  what 
are  we  to  do?  To  prefer  form  to  substance ?  for  give 
me  leave  to  ask,  what  is  the  substantial  part  of  his 
counsel?  It  is,  sir,  that  four  States  should  reject. 
They  tell  us  that,  from  the  most  authentic  accounts, 
New  Hampshire  will  adopt  it.  Where,  then,  will  four 
States  be  found  to  reject,  if  we  adopt  it?  If  we  do, 
the  counsel  of  this  worthy  and  enlightened  country- 
man of  ours  will  be  thrown  away,"  etc.  Whether 
this  gentleman  argued  sincerely,  from  his  impres- 
sion of  the  true  import  of  the  letter,  or  made  an 
attempt  "to  pervert  Mr.  Jefferson's  sentiments,"  as 
"Aristides"  affirms,  must  be  reserved  to  his  own 
consciousness,  and  to  the  candid  construction  of  an 
impartial  public. 

Mr.  Madison,  in  reply  to  Mr.  Henry  (p.  122  of  the 
same  "Debates"),  expresses  himself  thus: — "The 
honorable  member,  in  order  to  influence  our  decision, 
has  mentioned  the  opinion  of  a  citizen,  who  is  an 
ornament  to  this  State.  When  the  name  of  this 
distinguished  character  was  introduced,  I  was  much 
surprised.  Is  it  come  to  this,  then,  that  we  are  not  to 
follow  our  own  reason  ?  Is  it  proper  to  adduce  the 
opinions  of  respectable  men,  not  within  these  walls? 


256  Alexander  Hamilton 

If  the  opinion  of  an  important  character  were  to 
weigh  on  this  occasion,  could  we  not  adduce  a  char- 
acter equally  great  on  our  side?  Are  we,  who  (in 
the  honorable  gentleman's  opinion)  are  not  to  be 
guided  by  an  erring  world,  now  to  submit  to  the  opin- 
ion of  a  citizen  beyond  the  Atlantic  ?  I  believe  that 
were  that  gentleman  now  on  this  floor,  he  would 
be  for  the  adoption  of  this  Constitution.  I  wish 
his  name  had  never  been  mentioned;  I  wish  every 
thing  spoken  here  relative  to  his  opinion  may  be 
suppressed,  if  our  debates  should  be  published.  I 
know  that  the  delicacy  of  his  feelings  will  be  wounded, 
when  he  will  see  in  print  what  has  and  may  be  said 
concerning  him  on  this  occasion.  I  am  in  some 
measure  acquainted  with  his  sentiments  on  this  sub- 
ject. It  is  not  right  for  me  to  unfold  what  he  has  in- 
formed me.  But  I  will  venture  to  assert  that  the 
clause  now  discussed  is  not  objected  to  by  Mr. 
Jefferson.  He  approves  of  it  because  it  enables  the 
government  to  carry  on  its  operations,"  etc.  It  is 
observable  that  Mr.  Madison  neither  advocates  the 
accuracy  of  Mr.  Pendleton's  comment  nor  denies 
the  justice  of  that  of  Mr.  Henry.  His  solicitude  ap- 
pears to  be  to  destroy  the  influence  of  what  he  im- 
pliedly  admits  to  be  the  opinion  of  Mr.  Jefferson,  to 
press  out  of  sight  the  authority  of  that  opinion,  and 
to  get  rid  of  the  subject  as  fast  as  possible.  He  con- 
fesses a  knowledge  of  Mr.  Jefferson's  sentiments,  but 
prudently  avoids  disclosure,  wrapping  the  matter  in 
mysterious  reserve,  and  leaving  the  public  to  this 
day  to  conjecture  what  was  the  precise  import  of 
the  sentiments  communicated.  Enough,  however, 


Catullus  to  Aristides  257 

is  seen  to  justify  the  conclusion  that  if  the  spirit  of 
Mr.  Jefferson's  advice  had  prevailed  with  the  Conven- 
tion, and  full  credence  had  been  given  to  the  ex- 
pected adoption  by  New  Hampshire,  Virginia,  North 
Carolina,  New  York,  and  Rhode  Island  would  have 
temporarily  thrown  themselves  out  of  the  Union. 
And  whether,  in  that  event,  they  would  have  been 
at  this  day  reunited  to  it,  or  whether  there  would  be 
now  any  Union  at  all,  is  happily  a  speculation  which 
need  only  be  pursued  to  derive  the  pleasing  reflection 
that  the  danger  was  wisely  avoided. 

To  understand  more  accurately  what  "  An  Ameri- 
can ' '  meant  in  asserting  that  Mr.  Jefferson  had  been 
opposed  to  the  Constitution,  let  him  be  compared 
with  himself.  In  his  first  paper  he  expresses  him- 
self thus:  "While  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States  was  depending  before  the  people  of  this 
country  for  their  consideration  and  decision,  Mr. 
Jefferson  being  in  France  was  opposed  to  it  in  some 
of  its  most  important  features,  and  wrote  his  objec- 
tions to  some  of  his  friends  in  Virginia.  He  at  -first 
went  so  far  as  to  discountenance  its  adoption;  though 
he  afterwards  recommended  it  on  the  ground  of  ex- 
pediency in  certain  contingencies." 

From  this  it  is  evident  that  so  far  from  denying, 
he  has  even  admitted,  that  Mr.  Jefferson,  at  one 
stage  of  the  business,  recommended  the  adoption  of 
the  Constitution  to  his  fellow-citizens,  but  upon  a 
contingency.  And  this  is  literally  the  fact,  as  es- 
tablished by  the  letter  quoted  in  the  debates  of  the 
Convention.  The  advice  is  to  adopt,  if  nine  States 
had  not  previously  adopted ;  to  reject,  if  that  number 


VOL.  VII. — 17. 


258  Alexander  Hamilton 

of  States  had  previously  adopted.  This  is  clearly 
to  adopt,  or  not,  upon  a  contingency.  Thus  the 
authority  appealed  to  by  "Aristides"  confirms  the 
latter  part  of  "An  American's"  assertion,  without 
contradicting  the  former  part  of  it. 

"Aristides"  has  not  denied,  nor  do  I  believe  he 
will  deny,  that  Mr.  Jefferson,  in  his  early  communi- 
cations, discountenanced  the  adoption  of  the  Con- 
stitution in  its  primitive  form.  I  know  the  source1 
of  "An  American's"  information.  It  is  equally  au- 
thentic and  friendly  to  Mr.  Jefferson.  Allowing  for 
the  bare  possibility  of  misapprehension,  it  exactly  ac- 
cords with  the  statement  which  has  been  made  of  it. 
If  the  fact  shall  be  denied,  the  source  of  information 
will  be  indicated,  under  due  guards  for  the  delicacy 
of  the  proceeding. 

This  will  serve  either  to  confirm,  or,  in  case  of 
misconception,  to  correct. 

I  add  that  some  of  Mr.  Jefferson's  objections 
to  the  Constitution  have  not  been  removed  by  the 
amendments  which  have  been  proposed.  Part  of 
his  objections  went  to  the  structure  of  particular 
parts  of  the  government. 

As  to  the  second  fact  which  "  An  American"  cor- 
roborates, the  charge  of  Mr.  Jefferson's  participa- 
tion in  the  views  of  the  National  Gazette,  it  is  in  a 
degree  conceded  by  "  Aristides."  He  confesses,  nay, 
he  even  boasts,  Mr.  Jefferson's  abhorrence  of  some  of 
the  leading  principles  of  Mr.  Hamilton's  fiscal  ad- 
ministration,— that  is,  the  leading  principles  of  those 
measures  which  have  provided  for  the  public  debt 
and  have  restored  public  credit. 


Catullus  to  Aristides  259 

It  would  have  been  well  if  ''Aristides"  had  told 
us  what  those  leading  principles  are  which  are  the 
objects  of  so  much  abhorrence  to  Mr.  Jefferson. 

The  leading  principles  of  Mr.  Hamilton's  adminis- 
tration have  been :  that  the  public  debt  ought  to  be 
provided  for,  in  favor  of  those  who,  according  to  the 
express  terms  of  the  contract,  were  the  true  legal 
proprietors  of  it ;  that  it  ought  to  be  provided  for,  in 
other  respects,  according  to  the  terms  of  the  con- 
tract, except  so  far  as  deviations  from  it  should  be 
assented  to  by  the  creditors,  upon  the  condition  of  a 
fair  equivalent ;  that  it  ought  to  be  funded  on  ascer- 
tained revenues  pledged  for  the  payment  of  interest, 
and  the  gradual  redemption  of  principal;  that  the 
debts  of  the  several  States  ought  to  be  comprised  in 
the  provisions,  on  the  same  terms  with  that  of  the 
United  States;  that  to  render  this  great  operation 
practicable,  avoid  the  oppression  of  trade  and  indus- 
try, and  facilitate  loans  to  the  government  in  cases 
of  emergency,  it  was  necessary  to  institute  a  national 
bank ;  that  indirect  taxes  were,  in  the  actual  circum- 
stances of  the  country,  the  most  eligible  means  of 
revenue;  and  that  direct  taxes  ought  to  be  avoided 
as  much  and  as  long  as  possible. 

I  aver,  from  competent  opportunities  of  knowing 
Mr.  Jefferson's  ideas,  that  he  has  been  hostile  to  all 
these  positions,  except,  perhaps,  the  last;  and  that 
even  in  regard  to  that,  his  maxims  would  oblige  the 
government  in  practice  speedily  to  resort  to  direct 
taxes. 

I  aver,  moreover,  that  Mr.  Jefferson's  opposition  to 
the  administration  of  the  government  has  not  been 


260  Alexander  Hamilton 

confined  to  the  measures  connected  with  the  Treas- 
ury Department,  but  has  extended — to  use  the  words 
of  "An  American,"  to  almost  all  the  important 
measures  of  the  government.  The  exceptions  to  the 
generality  of  both  the  preceding  assertions  I  am  con- 
tent to  rest  on  a  designation  by  Mr.  Jefferson,  or  by 
any  person  who  shall  speak  from  a  knowledge  of  his 
sentiments,  of  those  principles  of  the  fiscal  depart- 
ment, or  of  those  measures  of  the  government  of  any 
importance,  which  he  does  approve.  I  insist  only 
that  the  designation  be  precise  and  explicit,  and 
come  with  such  marks  of  authenticity  as  are  adapted 
to  the  nature  of  an  anonymous  discussion. 

To  give  an  idea  of  the  accuracy  with  which  "  Aris- 
tides"  discloses  Mr.  Jefferson's  opinions,  I  shall  cite 
one  of  his  phrases  with  a  short  observation.  He 
asserts  that  a  suggestion  against  Mr.  Jefferson,  which 
he  states,  is  made  on  no  better  foundation  than  his 
being  opposed  to  some  of  the  principles  of  the  funding 
system  of  the  national  bank,  and  certain  other  meas- 
ures of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury.  It  is  matter 
of  general  notoriety  and  unquestionable  certainty, 
that  Mr.  Jefferson  has  been  opposed  to  the  national 
bank  in  toto,  to  its  constitutionality,  and  to  its  ex- 
pediency. With  what  propriety  is  it  then  said  that 
he  has  been  opposed  only  to  "some  of  the  principles 
of  that  institution"? 

I  proceed  now  to  state  the  exact  tenor  of  the  ad- 
vice which  Mr.  Jefferson  gave  to  Congress  respecting 
the  transfer  of  the  debt  due  to  France  to  a  company 
of  Hollanders.  After  mentioning  an  offer  which  had 
been  made  by  such  a  company  for  the  purchase  of 


Catullus  to  Aristides  261 

the  debt,  he  concludes  with  these  extraordinary  ex- 
pressions :  "If  there  is  a  danger  of  the  public  payment 
not  being  punctual,  I  submit  whether  it  may  not  be 
better  that  the  discontents  which  would  then  arise 
should  be  transferred  from  a  court  of  whose  good-will 
we  have  so  much  need  to  the  breasts  of  a  private 
company." 

The  above  is  an  extract  which  was  made  from  the 
letter  in  February,  1787.  The  date  of  it  was  not 
noted,  but  the  original  being  on  the  files  of  the  De- 
partment of  State,  will  ascertain  that  and  all  other 
particulars  relating  to  its  contents.  The  genuine- 
ness of  the  foregoing  extract  may  be  depended  upon. 

The  letter  was  the  subject  of  a  report  from  the 
Board  of  Treasury  in  February,  1787.  That  board 
treated  the  idea  of  the  transfer  proposed  as  both 
unjust  and  impolitic: — unjust,  because  the  nation 
would  contract  an  engagement  which  there  was  no 
well-grounded  prospect  of  fulfilling;  impolitic,  be- 
cause a  failure  in  the  payment  of  interest,  on  the 
debt  transferred  (which  was  inevitable),  would  justly 
blast  all  hopes  of  credit  with  the  citizens  of  the 
United  Netherlands  in  future  pressing  exigencies  of 
the  Union ;  and  gave  it  as  their  opinion  that  it  would 
be  advisable  for  Congress,  without  delay,  to  instruct 
their  minister  at  the  court  of  France,  to  forbear  giv- 
ing his  sanction  to  any  such  transfer. 

****** 

Congress  agreeing  in  the  ideas  of  the  board,  caused 
an  instruction  to  that  effect  to  be  sent  to  Mr.  Jeffer- 
son. Here,  then,  was  a  solemn  act  of  government 
condemning  the  principle  as  unjust  and  impolitic. 


262  Alexander  Hamilton 

If  the  sentiment  contained  in  the  extract  which 
has  been  recited  can  be  vindicated  from  the  imputa- 
tion of  political  profligacy,  then  is  it  necessary  to 
unlearn  all  the  ancient  notions  of  justice,  and  to 
substitute  some  new-fashioned  scheme  of  morality 
in  their  stead. 

Here  is  no  complicated  problem  which  sophistry 
may  entangle  or  obscure.  Here  is  a  plain  question 
of  moral  feeling.  A  government  is  encouraged,  on 
the  express  condition  of  not  having  a  prospect  of 
making  a  due  provision  for  a  debt  which  it  owes,  to 
concur  in  a  transfer  of  that  debt,  from  a  nation  well 
able  to  bear  the  inconveniences  of  failure  or  delay, 
to  individuals  whose  total  ruin  might  have  been  the 
consequence  of  it,  and  that  upon  the  interested  con- 
sideration of  having  need  of  the  good-will  of  the 
creditor  nation,  and,  with  the  dishonorable  motive, 
as  it  is  clearly  implied,  of  having  more  to  apprehend 
from  the  discontents  of  that  nation,  than  from  those 
of  disappointed  and  betrayed  individuals.  Let  every 
honest  and  impartial  mind,  consulting  its  own 
spontaneous  emotions,  pronounce  for  itself  upon  the 
rectitude  of  such  a  suggestion.  Let  every  sober 
and  independent  member  of  the  community  decide 
whether  it  is  likely  to  be  a  misfortune  to  the  country, 
that  the  maxims  of  the  officer  at  the  head  of  its 
Treasury  Department  are  materially  variant  from 
those  of  the  author  of  that  suggestion. 

And  let  "Aristides"  prove,  if  he  can,  that  Mr. 
Jefferson  gave  advice  "expressly  contrary  to  that 
which  has  been  ascribed  to  him. ' '  Amidst  the  eccen- 
tric ramblings  of  this  political  comet,  its  station  in 


Catullus  to  Aristides  263 

another  revolution  will  not  prove  that  its  appearance 
was  not,  at  one  time,  at  the  place  which  has  been 
assigned  for  it. 

"An  American,"  it  ought  to  be  confessed,  has  in 
this  instance  drawn  larger  than  the  life.  This  he  has 
done  by  blending  with  the  fact  the  sudden  though 
natural  comments  of  an  honest  indignation.  But 
the  original  itself,  in  its  true  size  and  shape,  without 
the  help  of  the  least  exaggeration,  is  to  the  moral 
eye  a  deformed  and  hideous  monster. 

Say,  "Aristides"!  did  the  character  to  whom  you 
are  so  partial,  imitate,  in  this  case,  the  sublime  virtue 
of  that  venerable  Athenian,  whose  name  you  have 
assumed;  did  he  dissuade  his  countrymen  from 
adopting  a  proposition,  because  though  "nothing 
could  be  more  advantageous,  nothing  could  be  more 
unjust ' '  ?  Did  he  not  rather  advise  them  to  do  what 
was  both  disadvantageous  and  unjust  f  May  he  not, 
as  a  public  man,  discard  all  apprehension  of  ostra- 
cism, for  being  the  superlatively  just? 

CATULLUS. 

P.  S. — Some  additional  observations  are  reserved 
for  another  paper. 


in 

September  29,  1792. 

"Aristides"  complains  that  "An  American"  has 
charged  Mr.  Jefferson  with  being  the  patron  and  pro- 
moter of  national  disunion,  national  insignificance, 
public  disorder,  and  discredit.  "  An  American/'  how- 
ever, has  only  affirmed,  that  "  the  real  or  pretended 


264  Alexander  Hamilton 

political  tenets  of  that  gentleman  tend"  to  those 
points. 

The  facts  which  have  been  established  clearly  de- 
monstrate, that,  in  the  form  in  which  it  is  made,  the 
charge  is  well  founded. 

If  Mr.  Jefferson's  opposition  to  the  funding  system, 
to  the  bank,  and  to  the  other  measures  which  are 
connected  with  the  administration  of  the  national 
finances,  had  ceased,  when  those  measures  had  re- 
ceived the  sanction  of  law,  nothing  more  could  have 
been  said,  than,  that  he  had  transgressed  the  rules 
of  official  decorum,  in  entering  the  lists  against 
the  head  of  another  department  (between  whom  and 
himself  there  was  a  reciprocal  duty  to  cultivate  har- 
mony) ;  that  he  had  been  culpable  in  pursuing  a  line 
of  conduct,  which  was  calculated  to  sow  the  seeds  of 
discord  in  the  executive  branch  of  the  government, 
in  the  infancy  of  its  existence. 

But  when  his  opposition  extended  beyond  that 
point,  when  it  was  apparent,  that  he  wished  to  render 
odious,  and  of  course  to  subvert  (for  in  a  popular 
government  these  are  convertible  terms),  all  those 
deliberate  and  solemn  acts  of  the  Legislature,  which 
had  become  the  pillars  of  the  public  credit,  his  con- 
duct deserved  to  be  regarded  with  a  still  severer  eye. 

Whatever  differences  of  opinion  may  have  pre- 
ceded those  acts,  however  exceptionable  particular 
features  in  them  may  have  appeared  to  certain  char- 
acters, there  is  no  enlightened  nor  discreet  citizen  but 
must  agree  that  they  ought  now  to  remain  undis- 
turbed. To  set  afloat  the  funding  system,  after  the 
faith  of  the  nation  has  been  so  deliberately  and 


Catullus  to  Aristides  265 

solemnly  pledged  to  it — after  such  numerous  and 
extensive  alienations  of  property  for  full  value  have 
been  made  under  its  sanction — with  adequate  reve- 
nues little  burthensome  to  the  people — in  a  time  of 
profound  peace  I — with  not  even  the  shadow  of  any 
public  necessity — on  no  better  ground  than  that  of 
theoretical  and  paradoxical  dogmas, — would  be  one 
of  the  most  wanton  and  flagitious  acts  that  ever 
stained  the  annals  of  a  civilized  nation. 

Yet  positions  tending  to  that  disgraceful  result 
have  been  maintained,  in  public  discourses,  by  in- 
dividuals known  to  be  devoted  to  the  Secretary  of 
State ;  and  have  been  privately  smiled  upon  as  pro- 
found discoveries  in  political  science. 

Yet  the  less  discreet,  though  not  least  important 
partisans  of  that  officer,  talk  familiarly  of  undoing 
the  funding  system  as  a  meritorious  work.  Yet  his 
gazette  (which  may  fairly  be  regarded  as  the  mirror 
of  his  views),  after  having  labored  for  months  to 
make  it  an  object  of  popular  detestation,  has  at 
length  told  us,  in  plain  and  triumphant  terms,  that 
"the  funding  system  has  had  its  day";  and  very 
clearly,  if  not  expressly,  that  it  is  the  object  of  the 
party  to  overthrow  it. 

"An  American,"  then,  has  justly,  and  from  suf- 
ficient data,  inferred  that  Mr.  Jefferson's  politics, 
whatever  may  be  the  motives  of  them,  tend  to 
national  disunion,  insignificance,  disorder,  and  dis- 
credit. That  the  subversion  of  the  funding  system 
would  produce  national  discredit,  proves  itself.  Loss 

1  The  partial  Indian  hostilities  which  exist  can  hardly  be  deemed  an 
interruption  of  the  general  peace. 


266  Alexander  Hamilton 

of  credit,  the  reason  being  the  same,  must  attend 
nations,  as  well  as  individuals,  who  voluntarily  and 
without  necessity  violate  their  formal  and  positive 
engagements. 

Insignificance  and  disorder,  as  applied  to  com- 
munities, equally  with  individuals,  are  the  natural 
offspring  of  a  loss  of  credit,  premeditatedly  and 
voluntarily  incurred. 

Disunion  would  not  long  lag  behind.  Sober- 
minded  and  virtuous  men  in  every  State  would  lose 
all  confidence  in,  and  all  respect  for,  a  government, 
which  has  betrayed  so  much  levity  and  inconstancy, 
so  profligate  a  disregard  to  the  rights  of  property  and 
to  the  obligations  of  good  faith.  Their  support 
would  of  course  be  so  far  withdrawn  or  relaxed  as  to 
leave  it  an  easy  prey  to  its  enemies.  These  comprise 
the  advocates  for  separate  confederacies ;  the  jealous 
partisans  of  unlimited  sovereignty,  in  the  State 
governments — the  never  to  be  satiated  lovers  of 
innovation  and  change — the  tribe  of  pretended  philo- 
sophers, but  real  fabricators  of  chimeras  and  para- 
doxes, the  Catilines  and  the  Caesars  of  the  community 
(a  description  of  men  to  be  found  in  every  republic), 
who,  leading  the  dance  to  the  tune  of  liberty  without 
law,  endeavor  to  intoxicate  the  people  with  delicious 
but  poisonous  draughts  to  render  them  the  easier 
victims  of  their  rapacious  ambition ;  the  vicious  and 
fanatical  of  every  class,  who  are  ever  found  the 
willing  or  deluded  followers  of  those  seducing  and 
treacherous  leaders. 

But  this  is  not  all — the  invasion  of  sixty  millions 
of  property  could  not  be  perpetrated  without  violent 


Catullus  to  Aristides  267 

concussions.  The  States,  whose  citizens,  both  as 
original  creditors  and  purchasers,  own  the  largest 
portions  of  the  debt  (and  several  such  there  are), 
would  not  remain  long  bound  in  the  trammels  of  a 
party  which  had  so  grossly  violated  their  rights.  The 
consequences  in  experiment  would  quickly  awaken 
to  a  sense  of  injured  right,  and  interest  such  of  them, 
whose  representatives  may  have  wickedly  embarked, 
or  been  ignorantly  betrayed,  into  the  atrocious  and 
destructive  project. 

Where  would  all  this  end  but  in  disunion  and 
anarchy  ? — in  national  disgrace  and  humiliation  ? 

" Aristides"  insinuates  that  "An  American"  has 
distinguished  Mr.  Jefferson  as  "the  Catiline  of  the 
day — the  ambitious  incendiary/'  Those  epithets 
are  not  to  be  found  in  either  of  the  papers  over  that 
signature.  But  "An  American"  has  said  that  Mr. 
Jefferson  "has  been  the  prompter,  open  or  secret,  of 
unwarrantable  aspersions  on  men  who,  as  long  as 
actions,  not  merely  professions,  shall  be  the  true 
tests  of  patriotism  and  integrity,  need  never  decline 
a  comparison  with  him  of  their  titles  to  the  public 
esteem, "  and  he  is  supported  in  the  assertion  by  facts. 

Not  to  cite  or  trace  those  foul  and  pestilent 
whispers  which,  clandestinely  circulating  through  the 
country,  have,  as  far  as  was  practicable,  contami- 
nated some  of  its  fairest  and  worthiest  characters, 
an  appeal  to  known  circumstances  will  justify  the 
charge. 

Some  time  since  there  appeared  in  print  certain 
speculations,1  which  have  been  construed  into  an 

1  The  Discourses  on  Davila,  by  John  Adams. 


268  Alexander  Hamilton 

advocation  of  hereditary  distinctions  in  government. 
These  (whether  with  or  without  foundation,  is  to 
this  moment  matter  of  conjecture)  were  ascribed 
to  a  particular  character,  pre-eminent  for  his  early 
intrepid,  faithful,  persevering,  and  comprehensively 
useful  services  to  his  country — a  man,  pure  and  un- 
spotted in  private  life,  a  citizen  having  a  high  and 
solid  title  to  the  esteem,  the  gratitude,  and  the  con- 
fidence of  his  fellow-citizens. 

The  first  volume  of  the  Rights  of  Man  makes  its 
appearance.  The  opportunity  is  eagerly  seized  to 
answer  the  double  purpose  of  wounding  a  competi- 
tor, and  of  laying  in  an  additional  stock  of  popularity, 
by  associating  and  circulating  the  name  of  Thomas 
Jefferson  with  a  popular  production  of  a  favorite 
writer  on  a  favorite  subject. 

For  this  purpose,  the  Secretary  of  State  sits  down 
and  pens  an  epistle  to  a  printer  in  the  city  of  Phil- 
adelphia, transmitting  the  work  for  republication,and 
expressing  his  approbation  of  it  in  a  way  which  we 
learn,  from  the  preface  of  that  printer  to  his  edition 
of  the  work,  was  calculated  not  only  to  do  justice  to 
the  rights  of  Mr.  Paine,  but  to  do  honor  to  Mr.  Jeffer- 
son, by  directing  the  mind  to  a  contemplation  of  that 
republican  firmness  and  democratic  simplicity  which 
ought  to  endear  him  to  every  friend  to  the  Rights  of 
Man. 

The  letter,  as  we  learn  from  the  same  preface,  con- 
tained the  following  passages:  "I  am  extremely 
pleased  to  find  it  will  be  reprinted  here,  and  that 
something  is  at  length  to  be  publicly  said  against  the 
political  heresies  which  have  sprung  up  among  us.'* 


Catullus  to  Aristides  269 

"  I  have  no  doubt  our  citizens  will  rally  a  second 
time  round  the  standard  of  common-sense." 

There  was  not  a  man  in  the  United  States  ac- 
quainted with  the  insinuations  which  had  been  pro- 
pagated, who  did  not  instantly  apply  the  remark, 
and  the  signal  was  so  well  understood  by  the  parti- 
sans of  the  writer,  that  a  general  attack  immediately 
commenced.  The  newspapers  in  different  States 
resounded  with  invective  and  scurrility  against  the 
patriot,  who  was  marked  out  as  the  object  of  per- 
secution and,  if  possible,  of  degradation. 

Under  certain  circumstances,  general  expressions 
designate  a  person  or  an  object  as  clearly  as  an  in- 
dication of  it  by  name.  So  it  happened  in  the  pres- 
ent case.  The  javelin  went  directly  to  its  destination. 

It  was  quickly  perceived  that  discerning  and 
respectable  men  disapproved  the  step.  It  was  of 
consequence  to  endeavor  to  maintain  their  good 
opinion.  Protestations  and  excuses  as  frivolous  as 
awkward  were  multiplied  to  veil  the  real  design. 

"The  gentleman  alluded  to  never  once  entered 
into  the  mind.  It  was  never  imagined  that  the 
printer  would  be  so  incautious  as  to  publish  the  letter 
or  any  part  of  it.  Nothing  more  was  in  view  than  to 
turn  a  handsome  period,  and  avoid  the  baldness  of  a 
note  that  did  nothing  but  present  the  compliments 
of  the  writer." 

Thus  a  solemn  invocation  to  the  people  of  America, 
on  the  most  serious  and  important  subject,  dwindled 
at  once  into  a  brilliant  conceit,  that  tickled  the 
imagination  too  much  to  be  resisted.  The  imputa- 
tion of  levity  was  preferred  to  that  of  malice. 


270  Alexander  Hamilton 

But  when  the  people  of  America  presented  them- 
selves to  the  disturbed  patriotic  fancy,  as  a  routed 
host,  scattered  and  dispersed  by  political  sorcerers, 
how  was  it  possible  to  resist  the  heroic,  the  chival- 
rous desire  of  erecting  for  them  some  magic  standard 
of  orthodoxy,  and  endeavoring  to  rally  them  round 
it  for  mutual  protection  and  safety? 

In  so  glorious  a  cause,  the  considerations  that  a 
citizen  of  the  United  States  had  written  in  a  foreign 
country  a  book  containing  strictures  on  the  govern- 
ment of  that  country  which  would  be  regarded  by  it 
as  libellous  and  seditious,  that  he  had  dedicated  this 
book  to  the  Chief  Magistrate  of  the  Union,  that  a 
republication  of  it  under  the  auspices  of  the  Secre- 
tary of  State  would  wear  the  appearance  of  its  hav- 
ing been  promoted,  at  least  of  its  being  patronized, 
by  the  government  of  this  country,  were  consider- 
ations too  light  and  unimportant  to  occasion  a  mo- 
ment's hesitation  or  pause. 

Those  who,  after  an  attentive  review  of  circum- 
stances, can  be  deceived  by  the  artifices  which  have 
been  employed  to  varnish  over  this  very  exceptional 
proceeding,  must  understand  little  of  human  nature, 
must  be  little  read  in  the  history  of  those  arts,  which 
in  all  countries  and  at  all  times  have  served  to  dis- 
guise the  machinations  of  factious  and  intriguing  men. 

The  remaining  circumstance  of  public  notoriety, 
which  fixes  upon  Mr.  Jefferson  the  imputation  of 
being  the  prompter  or  instigator  of  detraction,  exists 
in  his  patronage  of  the  National  Gazette. 

Can  any  attentive  reader  of  that  gazette,  doubt  for 
a  moment  that  it  has  been  systematically  devoted  to 


Catullus  to  Aristides  271 

the  calumniating  and  blackening  of  public  characters  ? 
Can  it  be  a  question,  that  a  main  object  of  the  paper 
is  to  destroy  the  public  confidence  in  a  particular 
public  character,  who  it  seems  is  to  be  hunted  down 
at  all  events,  for  the  unpardonable  sin  of  having  been 
the  steady,  invariable,  and  decided  friend  of  broad 
national  principles  of  government?  Can  it  be  a 
question,  that  the  persecution  of  the  officer  alluded 
to  is  agreeable  to  the  views  of  the  institutor  of  the 
paper? 

Does  all  this  proceed  from  motives  purely  disin- 
terested and  patriotic  ?  Can  none  of  a  different  com- 
plexion be  imagined,  that  may  at  least  have  operated 
to  give  a  stimulus  to  patriotic  zeal  ? 

No.  Mr.  Jefferson  has  hitherto  been  distinguished 
as  the  quiet,  modest,  retiring  philosopher;  as  the 
plain,  simple,  unambitious  republican.  He  shall  not 
now,  for  the  first  time,  be  regarded  as  the  intriguing 
incendiary,  the  aspiring  turbulent  competitor. 

How  long  it  is  since  that  gentleman's  real  charac- 
ter may  have  been  divined,  or  whether  this  is  only  the 
first  time  that  the  secret  has  been  disclosed,  I  am  not 
sufficiently  acquainted  with  the  history  of  his  politi- 
cal life  to  determine;  but  there  is  always  a  " first 
time"  when  characters  studious  of  artful  disguises 
are  unveiled;  when  the  visor  of  stoicism  is  plucked 
from  the  brow  of  the  epicurean ;  when  the  plain  garb 
of  Quaker  simplicity  is  stripped  from  the  concealed 
voluptuary ;  when  Caesar  coyly  refusing  the  proffered 
diadem,  is  seen  to  be  Caesar  rejecting  the  trappings, 
but  tenaciously  grasping  the  substance  of  imperial 
domination. 


272  Alexander  Hamilton 

It  is  not  unusual  to  defend  one  post  by  attacking 
another.  "Aristides"  has  shown  a  disposition  to 
imitate  this  policy.  He  by  clear  implication  tells  us, 
and  doubtless  means  it  as  a  justification  of  the  per- 
son whom  he  defends,  that  attachment  to  aristocracy, 
monarchy,  hereditary  succession,  a  titled  order  of 
nobility,  and  all  the  mock  pageantry  of  kingly  govern- 
ment, form  the  appropriate  and  prominent  features 
in  the  character  to  which  he  boasts  Mr.  Jefferson's 
opposition,  and  which  it  seems  to  be  a  principal  part 
of  the  business  of  his  gazette  to  depreciate.  This  is 
no  more  than  what  has  been  long  matter  for  male- 
volent insinuation.  I  mistake,  however,  the  man  to 
whom  it  is  applied,  if  he  fears  the  strictest  scrutiny 
into  his  political  principles  and  conduct;  if  he  does 
not  wish  there  "were  windows  in  the  breast,"  and 
that  assembled  America  might  witness  the  inmost 
springs  of  his  public  actions.  I  mistake  him — how- 
ever a  turn  of  mind  less  addicted  to  dogmatizing  than 
reasoning,  less  fond  of  hypotheses  than  experience, 
may  have  led  to  speculative  doubts  concerning  the 
probable  success  of  the  republican  theory — if  he  has 
not  uniformly  and  ardently,  since  the  experiment 
of  it  began  in  the  United  States,  wished  it  success;  if 
he  is  not  sincerely  desirous  that  the  sublime  idea  of  a 
perfect  equality  of  rights  among  citizens,  exclusive  of 
hereditary  distinctions,  may  be  practically  justified 
and  realized ;  and  if  among  the  sources  of  the  regret 
which  his  language  and  conduct  have  testified,  at  the 
overdriven  maxims  and  doctrines  that  too  long  with- 
stood the  establishment  of  firm  government  in  the 
United  States,  and  now  embarrass  the  execution  of 


Catullus  to  Aristides  273 

the  government  which  has  been  established,  a  prin- 
cipal one  has  not  been  their  tendency  to  counteract  a 
fair  trial  of  the  theory  to  which  he  is  represented  to 
be  adverse.  I  mistake  him,  if  his  measures  proceed- 
ing upon  the  ground  of  a  liberal  and  efficient  exercise 
of  the  powers  of  the  national  government,  have  had 
any  other  object  than  to  give  it  stability  and  dura- 
tion :  the  only  solid  and  rational  expedient  for  preserv- 
ing republican  government  in  the  United  States. 

It  has  been  pertinently  remarked  by  a  judicious 
writer,  that  Ccesar,  who  overturned  the  republic,  was 
the  Whig,  Cato,  who  died  for  it,  the  Tory,  of  Rome ; 
such,  at  least,  was  the  common  cant  of  political 
harangues,  the  insidious  tale  of  hypocritical  dema- 
gogues. 

CATULLUS. 


IV 

October  17,  1792. 

Attempts  in  different  shapes  have  been  made  to 
repel  the  charges  which  have  been  brought  against 
the  Secretary  of  State.  The  defence  of  him,  how- 
ever, in  the  quarter  in  which  he  has  been  principally 
assailed,  has  hitherto  gone  no  further  than  a  mere 
show  of  defending  him.  I  speak  as  to  his  improper 
connection  with  the  editor  of  the  National  Gazette. 
But  a  more  serious  and  plausible  effort  has  been 
made  to  obviate  the  impression  which  arises  from  his 
having  been  originally  an  objector  to  the  present 
Constitution  of  the  United  States. 

For  this  purpose  several  letters  said  to  have  been 
written  by  Mr.  Jefferson  while  in  Europe  have  been 

VOL.  VII. — 18. 


274  Alexander  Hamilton 

communicated.  How  far  they  are  genuine  letters 
or  mere  fabrications ;  how  far  they  may  have  been 
altered  or  mutilated,  is  liable,  from  the  manner  of 
their  appearance,  to  question  and  doubt.  It  is  ob- 
servable also,  that  the  extract  of  a  letter  of  the  6th 
July,  contained  in  the  American  Daily  Advertiser  of 
the  loth  instant,  though  it  seems  to  be  intended  as 
part  of  the  one  which  is  mentioned  in  the  "  Debates 
of  the  Virginia  Convention,"  does  not  answer  to  the 
description  given  of  it  by  Mr.  Pendleton,  who  pro- 
fesses to  have  seen  it.  For  Mr.  Pendleton  expressly 
states  with  regard  to  that  letter,  that  Mr.  Jefferson, 
after  having  declared  his  wish  respecting  the  issue  of 
the  deliberations  upon  the  Constitution,  proceeds  to 
enumerate  the  amendments  which  he  wishes  to  be  se- 
cured. The  extract  which  is  published,  speaks  only 
of  a  bill  of  rights,  as  the  essential  amendment  to  be 
obtained  by  the  rejection  of  four  States,  which  by 
no  means  satisfies  the  latitude  of  Mr.  Pendleton 's 
expressions. 

Such,  nevertheless,  as  it  is,  it  affords  an  additional 
confirmation  of  that  part  of  "  An  American's  "  state- 
ment, which  represents  Mr.  Jefferson  as  having  ad- 
vised the  people  of  Virginia  to  adopt  or  not  upon  a 
contingency. 

It  happens,  likewise,  that  the  letters  which  have 
been  communicated  tend  to  confirm  the  only  parts 
of  "  An  American's ' '  statement  of  the  sentiments  and 
conduct  of  Mr.  Jefferson,  in  relation  to  the  Constitu- 
tion, which  remained  to  be  supported;  namely, 
1  'that  he  was  opposed  to  it  in  some  of  its  most  im- 
portant features,  and  at  first  went  so  far  as  to  dis- 


Catullus  to  Aristides  275 

countenance  its  adoption."  By  this  I  understand 
without  previous  amendments. 

From  the  first  of  those  letters,  dated  "  Paris  the 
2oth  December,  1787,"  it  appears  that  Mr.  Jefferson, 
among  other  topics  of  objection,  "  disliked,  and 
greatly  disliked,  the  abandonment  of  the  principle  of 
rotation  in  office,  and  most  particularly  in  the  case 
of  President,"  from  which  the  inference  is  clear,  that 
he  would  have  wished  the  principle  of  rotation  to 
have  extended  not  only  to  the  executive,  but  to  the 
other  branches  of  the  government,  to  the  Senate  at 
least,  as  is  explained  by  a  subsequent  letter.  This 
objection  goes  to  the  structure  of  the  government  in 
a  very  important  article;  and  while  it  justifies  the 
assertion  that  Mr.  Jefferson  was  opposed  to  the  Con- 
stitution, in  some  of  its  most  important  features,  it  is 
a  specimen  of  the  visionary  system  of  politics  of  its 
author.  Had  it  been  confined  to  the  office  of  Chief 
Magistrate,  it  might  have  pretended  not  only  to 
plausibility  but  to  a  degree  of  weight  and  respecta- 
bility. By  being  extended  to  other  branches  of  the 
government,  it  assumes  a  different  character,  and 
evinces  a  mind  prone  to  projects  which  are  incom- 
patible with  the  principles  of  stable  and  systematic 
government,  disposed  to  multiply  the  outworks,  and 
leave  the  citadel  weak  and  tottering. 

But  the  fact  not  the  merit  of  the  objection  is  the 
material  point.  In  this  particular,  it  comes  fully  up 
to  the  suggestion  which  has  been  made. 

It  now  only  remains  to  see  how  far  it  is  proved, 
that  Mr.  Jefferson  at  first  discountenanced  the  adop- 
tion of  the  Constitution  in  its  primitive  form. 


2/6  Alexander  Hamilton 

Of  this,  a  person  acquainted  with  the  manner  of 
that  gentleman,  and  with  the  force  of  terms,  will  find 
sufficient  evidence  in  the  following  passage:  "/  do 
not  pretend  to  decide,  what  would  be  the  best  method 
of  procuring  the  establishment  of  the  manifold  good 
things  in  the  Constitution,  and  of  getting  rid  of  the 
bad :  whether  by  adopting  it  in  hopes  of  future 
amendment;  or  after  it  has  been  duly  weighed  and 
canvassed  by  the  people, — after  seeing  the  parts  they 
generally  dislike,  and  those  they  generally  approve, 
to  say  to  them,  'We  see  now  what  you  wish — send 
together  your  deputies  again — let  them  frame  a 
Constitution  for  you,  omitting  what  you  have 
condemned,  and  establishing  the  powers  you  ap- 
prove.'" 

Mr.  Jefferson  did  not  explicitly  decide  which  of 
these  two  modes  was  best,  and  while  it  is  clear,  that 
he  had  not  determined  in  favor  of  an  adoption  with- 
out previous  amendments,  it  is  not  difficult  to  infer 
from  the  terms  of  expression  employed,  that  he  pre- 
ferred the  last  of  the  two  modes ;  a  recurrence  to 
a  second  convention.  The  faintness  of  the  phrase 
"  in  hopes  of  future  amendment, "  and  the  emphatical 
method  of  displaying  the  alternative,  are  sufficient 
indications  of  the  preference  he  entertained. 

The  pains  which  he  takes  in  the  same  letter  to  re- 
move the  alarm  naturally  inspired  by  the  insurrec- 
tion which  had  happened  in  Massachusetts,  are  an 
additional  illustration  of  the  same  bias.  It  is  not 
easy  to  understand  what  other  object  his  comments 
on  that  circumstance  could  have,  but  to  obviate  the 
anxiety  which  it  was  calculated  to  inspire,  for  an 


Catullus  to  Aristides  277 

adoption  of  the  Constitution,  without  a  previous 
experiment  to  amend  it. 

It  is  not  possible  to  avoid  remarking  by  the  way, 
that  these  comments  afford  a  curious  and  character- 
istic sample  of  logic  and  calculation.  "  One  rebellion 
in  thirteen  States,  in  the  course  of  eleven  years,  is  but 
one  for  each  State  in  a  century  and  a  half";  while 
France,  it  seems,  had  had  three  insurrections  in  three 
years.  In  the  latter  instance  the  subdivisions  of 
the  entire  nation  are  confounded  in  one  mass;  in 
the  former,  they  are  the  ground  of  calculation.  And 
thus  a  miserable  sophism  is  gravely  made  a  basis  of 
political  consolation  and  conduct.  For,  according 
to  the  data  stated,  it  was  as  true  that  the  United 
States  had  had  one  rebellion  in  eleven  years,  en- 
dangering their  common  safety  and  welfare,  as  that 
France  had  had  three  insurrections  in  three  years. 

Thus  it  appears  from  the  very  documents  pro- 
duced in  exculpation  of  Mr.  Jefferson,  that  he  in  fact 
discountenanced,  in  the  first  instance,  the  adoption 
of  the  Constitution,  favoring  the  idea  of  an  attempt 
at  previous  amendments  by  a  second  convention; 
which  is  the  only  part  of  the  allegation  of  "An 
American ' '  that  remained  to  be  established. 

As  to  those  letters  of  Mr.  Jefferson  which  are  sub- 
sequent to  his  knowledge  of  the  ratification  of  the 
Constitution  by  the  requisite  number  of  States,  they 
prove  nothing  but  that  Mr.  Jefferson  was  willing  to 
play  the  politician. 

They  can  at  best  only  be  received  as  acts  of  sub- 
mission to  the  opinion  of  the  majority  which  he 
professes  to  believe  infallible,  resigning  to  it,  with 


278  Alexander  Hamilton 

all  possible  humility,  not  only  his  conduct  but  his 
judgment. 

It  will  be  remarked  that  there  appears  to  have  been 
no  want  of  versatility  in  his  opinions.  They  kept 
pace  tolerably  well  with  the  progress  of  the  business, 
and  were  quite  as  accommodating  as  circumstances 
seemed  to  require.  On  the  3ist  July,  1788,  when 
the  adoption  of  the  Constitution  was  known,  the 
various  and  weighty  objections  of  March,  1787,  had 
resolved  themselves  into  the  simple  want  of  a  bill  of 
rights ;  in  November  following,  on  the  strength  of 
the  authority  of  three  States  (overruling  in  that 
instance  the  maxim  of  implicit  deference  for  the 
opinion  of  a  majority),  that  lately  solitary  defect 
acquires  a  companion  in  a  revival  of  the  objection 
to  the  perpetual  re-eligibility  of  the  President.  And 
another  convention,  which  appeared  no  very  alarm- 
ing expedient  while  the  entire  Constitution  was  in 
jeopardy,  became  an  object  to  be  deprecated,  when 
partial  amendments  to  an  already  established  Con- 
stitution were  alone  in  question. 

From  the  fluctuations  of  sentiment  which  appear 
in  the  letters  that  have  been  published,  it  is  natural 
to  infer,  that  had  the  whole  of  Mr.  Jefferson's  cor- 
respondence on  the  subject  been  given  to  the  public, 
much  greater  diversities  would  have  been  discovered. 

In  the  preface  to  the  publication  of  the  letters 
under  consideration,  the  question  is  put,  "  Wherein 
was  the  merit  or  offence  of  a  favorable  or  unfavor- 
able opinion  of  the  Constitution,  and  to  whom 
rendered?" 

It  is  a  sufficient  answer  to  this  question,  as  it  re- 


Catullus  to  Aristides  279 

lates  to  the  present  discussion,  to  say,  that  the  inti- 
mation which  was  given  of  Mr.  Jefferson's  dislike  of 
the  Constitution,  in  the  first  instance,  was  evidently 
not  intended  as  the  imputation  of  a  positive  crime, 
but  as  one  link  in  a  chain  of  evidence  tending  to 
prove  that  the  National  Gazette  was  conducted  under 
his  auspices,  and  in  conformity  to  his  views. 

After  showing  that  the  editor  of  that  paper  was  in 
his  pay,  and  had  been  taken  into  it  some  short  time 
previous  to  the  commencement  of  the  publication, 
the  inference  resulting  from  the  circumstance,  of  that 
paper  being  a  political  engine,  in  his  hands,  is  en- 
deavored to  be  corroborated,  first,  by  the  suggestion 
that  Mr.  Jefferson  had  originally  serious  objections 
to  the  Constitution;  secondly,  by  the  further  sug- 
gestion, that  he  has  disapproved  of  most  of  the 
important  measures  adopted  in  the  course  of  the 
administration  of  the  government. 

In  this  light,  and  with  this  special  reference,  were 
those  suggestions  made,  and  certainly  as  far  as  they 
are  founded  in  fact,  the  argument  they  afford  is  fair 
and  forcible.  A  correspondency  of  the  principles 
and  opinions  of  Mr.  Jefferson,  with  the  complexion 
of  a  paper,  the  conductor  of  which  is  in  the  regular 
pay  of  his  department,  is  surely  a  strong  confirma- 
tion of  the  conclusion — that  the  paper  is  conducted 
under  his  influence,  and  agreeably  to  his  views. 

Nothing  but  a  known  opposition  of  sentiment  on 
the  part  of  Mr.  Jefferson  to  the  doctrines  inculcated 
in  the  National  Gazette,  could  obviate  the  infer- 
ence deducible  from  his  ascertained  and  very  ex- 
traordinary connection  with  it.  A  coincidence  of 


280  Alexander  Hamilton 

sentiments  is  a  direct  and  irresistible  confirmation  of 
that  inference. 

An  effort  scarcely  plausible  has  been  made  by 
another  "  Aristides"  z  to  explain  away  the  turpitude 
of  the  advice,  which  was  given  respecting  the  French 
debt.  It  is  represented  that  a  company  of  advent- 
uring speculators  had  offered  to  purchase  the  debt 
at  a  discount,  foreseeing  the  delay  of  the  payment, 
calculating  the  probable  loss,  and  willing  to  en- 
counter the  hazard.  The  terms  employed  by  Mr. 
Jefferson  refute  this  species  of  apology.  His  words 
are :  "If  there  is  a  danger  of  the  public  payments  not 
being  punctual,  I  submit  whether  it  may  not  be  better, 
that  the  discontents  which  would  then  arise,  should  be 
transferred  from  a  court,  of  whose  good-will  we  have  so 
much  need,  to  the  breasts  of  a  private  company." 

He  plainly  takes  it  for  granted  that  discontents 
would  arise  from  the  want  of  an  adequate  provision, 
and  proposes  that  they  should  be  transferred  to  the 
breasts  of  individuals.  This  he  could  not  have  taken 
for  granted  if,  in  his  conception,  the  purchasers  had 
calculated  on  delay  and  loss. 

The  true  construction  then  is,  that  the  company 
expected  to  purchase  at  an  undervalue,  from  the 
probability  that  the  court  of  France  might  be  willing 
to  raise  a  sum  of  money  on  this  fund,  at  a  sacrifice,— 
supposing  that  the  United  States,  counting  that  her 
friendly  indulgence  might  be  less  inclined  to  press 
the  reimbursement, — not  that  they  calculated  on 

1  The  total  dissimilarity  of  style  and  manner,  leaves  no  doubt  that 
the  writer  of  the  first  piece  signed  "  Aristides,"  is  a  different  person 
from  the  writer  of  the  last.  The  forces  are  well  marshalled. 


Catullus  to  Aristides  281 

material  delay  or  neglect  when  the  transfer  should 
be  made  to  them.  They  probably  made  a  very 
different  calculation  (to  wit),  that  as  it  would  be 
ruinous  to  the  credit  of  the  United  States  abroad, 
to  neglect  any  part  of  its  debt  which  was  contracted 
there  with  individuals,  from  the  impossibility  of  one 
part  being  distinguishable  from  another  in  the  public 
apprehension,  this  consideration  would  stimulate  to 
exertions  to  provide  for  it.  And  so  it  is  evident, 
from  his  own  words,  that  Mr.  Jefferson  understood  it. 

But  the  persons  who  offered  to  purchase  were 
speculators.  The  cry  of  speculation  as  usual  is 
raised,  and  this,  with  some  people,  is  the  panacea, 
the  universal  cure  for  fraud  and  breach  of  faith. 

It  is  true,  as  alleged,  that  Mr.  Jefferson  mentioned 
an  alternative,  the  obtaining  of  money  by  new  loans, 
to  reimburse  the  court  of  France ;  but  this  is  not 
mentioned  in  any  way  that  derogates  from,  or  waives 
the  advice  given  in  the  first  instance.  He  merely 
presents  an  alternative,  in  case  the  first  idea  should 
be  disapproved. 

It  may  be  added,  that  the  advice  respecting  the 
transfer  of  the  debt  was  little  more  honorable  to  the 
United  States  as  it  regarded  the  court  of  France,  than 
as  it  respected  the  Dutch  company.  What  a  blem- 
ish on  our  national  character,  that  a  debt  of  so 
sacred  a  nature  should  have  been  transferred  at  so 
considerable  a  loss  to  so  meritorious  a  creditor! 

A  still  less  plausible  effort  has  been  made  to  vin- 
dicate the  National  Gazette  from  the  charge  of  being 
a  paper  devoted  to  calumniating  and  depreciating 
the  government  of  the  United  States.  No  original 


282  Alexander  Hamilton 

performance  in  defence  of  the  government  or  its 
measures,  has,  it  is  said,  been  refused  by  the  editor 
of  that  paper.  A  few  publications  of  that  tendency 
have  appeared  in  it,  principally,  if  not  wholly,  since 
the  public  detection  of  the  situation  of  its  conductor. 

What  a  wretched  apology !  Because  the  partiality 
has  not  been  so  daring  and  unprecedented,  as  to  ex- 
tend to  a  refusal  of  original  publications  in  defence 
of  the  government,  a  paper  which  industriously 
copies  every  inflammatory  publication  against  it 
that  appears  in  any  part  of  the  United  States,  and 
carefully  avoids  every  answer  which  is  given  to  them, 
even  when  specially  handed  to  the  editor  for  the  pur- 
pose, is  not  to  be  accounted  a  malicious  and  per- 
nicious engine  of  detraction  and  calumny  towards 
the  government ! ! ! 

But  happily  here  no  proof  nor  argument  is  neces- 
sary. The  true  character  and  tendency  of  the  paper 
may  be  left  to  the  evidence  of  every  reader's  senses 
and  feelings.  And  "  Aristides,"  as  often  as  he  looks 
over  that  paper,  must  blush,  if  he  can  blush,  at  the 
assertion  that  "  it  has  abounded  since  its  commence- 
ment with  publications  in  favor  of  the  measures  of 
the  government." 

Deception,  however  artfully  veiled,  seldom  fails  to 
betray  some  unsound  part.  "Aristides"  assures  us 
that  Mr.  Jefferson  "has  actually  refused  in  any  in- 
stance to  mark  a  single  paragraph,  which  appeared  in 
the  foreign  prints,  for  republication  in  the  National 
Gazette."  On  what  ground  was  such  an  applica- 
tion to  Mr.  Jefferson  made,  if  he  was  not  con- 
sidered as  the  patron  of  the  paper?  What  printer 


Metellus  283 

would  make  a  similar  application  to  the  head  of  any 
other  department?  I  verily  believe  none.  And  I 
consider  the  circumstance  stated  as  a  confirmation 
of  the  relation  of  patron  and  client  between  the 
SECRETARY  OF  STATE  and  the  editor  of  the  National 
Gazette. 

The  refusal,  if  it  happened,  is  one  of  those  little 
underplots,  with  which  the  most  intriguing  man  in 
the  United  States  is  at  no  loss,  to  keep  out  of  sight 
the  main  design  of  the  drama. 

CATULLUS. 


METELLUS 

October  24,  1792. 

The  votaries  of  Mr.  Jefferson,  whose  devotion  for 
their  idol  kindles  at  every  form  in  which  he  deigns  to 
present  himself,  have  deduced  matter  of  panegyric 
from  his  opposition  to  the  measures  of  the  govern- 
ment. 'T  is  according  to  them  the  sublimest  pitch 
of  virtue  in  him,  not  only  to  have  extra-officially 
embarrassed  plans,  originating  with  his  colleagues  in 
the  course  of  their  progress,  but  to  have  continued 
his  opposition  to  them,  after  they  had  been  con- 
sidered and  enacted  by  the  Legislature^  with  such 
modifications  as  appeared  to  them  proper,  and  had 
been  approved  by  the  Chief  Magistrate.  Such  con- 
duct, it  seems,  marks  "a  firm  and  virtuous  inde- 
pendence of  character."  If  any  proof  were  wanting 
of  that  strange  inversion  of  the  ideas  of  decorum, 
propriety,  and  order,  which  characterizes  a  certain 
party,  this  making  a  theme  of  encomium  of  what  is 


284  Alexander  Hamilton 

truly  a  demonstration  of  a  caballing,  self-sufficient, 
and  refractory  temper,  would  afford  it. 

In  order  to  show  that  the  epithets  have  been  mis- 
applied, I  shall  endeavor  to  state  what  course  a  firm 
and  virtuous  independence  of  character,  guided  by 
a  just  and  necessary  sense  of  decorum,  would  dictate 
to  a  man  in  the  station  of  Mr.  Jefferson. 

This  has  been  rendered  more  particularly  requisite 
by  the  formal  discussion  of  the  point,  which  appears 
to  be  the  object  of  a  continuation  of  a  defence  of  that 
gentleman,  in  the  American  Daily  Advertiser  of  the 
loth  inst. 

The  position  must  be  reprobated  that  a  man  who 
had  accepted  an  office  in  the  Executive  Department, 
should  be  held  to  throw  the  weight  of  his  character 
into  the  scale,  to  support  a  measure  which  in  his  con- 
science he  disapproved,  and  in  his  station  had  opposed 
—or,  that  the  members  of  the  administration  should 
form  together  a  close  and  secret  combination,  into 
whose  measures  the  profane  eye  of  the  public  should 
in  no  instance  pry.  But  there  is  a  very  obvious 
medium  between  aiding  or  countenancing,  and  in- 
triguing and  machinating  against  a  measure ;  between 
opposing  it  in  the  discharge  of  an  official  duty,  or 
volunteering  an  opposition  to  it  in  the  discharge  of 
no  duty;  between  entering  into  a  close  and  secret 
combination  with  the  other  members  of  an  adminis- 
tration, and  being  the  active  leader  of  an  opposition 
to  its  measures. 

The  true  line  of  propriety  appears  to  me  to  be  the 
following:  A  member  of  the  administration,  in  one 
department,  ought  only  to  aid  those  measures  of 


Metellus  285 

another  which  he  approves — where  he  disapproves, 
if  called  upon  to  act  officially,  he  ought  to  manifest 
his  disapprobation,  and  avow  his  opposition,  but  out 
of  an  official  line  he  ought  not  to  interfere  as  long  as 
he  thinks  fit  to  continue  a  part  of  the  administration. 
When  the  measure  in  question  has  become  a  law  of 
the  land,  especially  with  a  direct  sanction  of  the 
chief  magistrate,  it  is  peculiarly  his  duty  to  ac- 
quiesce. A  contrary  conduct  is  inconsistent  with 
his  relations  as  an  officer  of  the  government,  and 
with  a  due  respect  as  such  for  the  decisions  of  the 
Legislature,  and  of  the  head  of  the  executive  de- 
partment. The  line  here  delineated,  is  drawn  from 
obvious  and  very  important  considerations.  The  suc- 
cess of  every  government — its  capacity  to  combine 
the  exertion  of  public  strength  with  the  preservation 
of  personal  right  and  private  security,  qualities  which 
define  the  perfection  of  a  government,  must  always 
naturally  depend  on  the  energy  of  the  executive 
department.  This  energy  again  must  materially 
depend  on  the  union  and  mutual  deference  which 
subsists  between  the  members  of  that  department, 
and  the  conformity  of  their  conduct  with  the  views 
of  the  executive  chief. 

Difference  of  opinion  between  men  engaged  in  any 
common  pursuit,  is  a  natural  appendage  of  human 
nature.  When  only  exerted  in  the  discharge  of  a 
duty,  with  delicacy  and  temper,  among  liberal  and 
sensible  men,  it  can  create  no  animosity;  but  when 
it  produces  officious  interferences,  dictated  by  no 
call  of  duty — when  it  volunteers  a  display  of  itself 
in  a  quarter  where  there  is  no  responsibility,  to 


286  Alexander  Hamilton 

the  obstruction  and  embarrassment  of  one  who  is 
charged  with  an  immediate  and  direct  responsibility, 
it  must  necessarily  beget  ill-humor  and  discord  be- 
tween the  parties.  Applied  to  the  members  of  the 
executive  administration  of  any  government,  it 
must  necessarily  tend  to  occasion,  more  or  less,  dis- 
tracted councils,  to  foster  factions  in  the  community, 
and  practically  to  weaken  the  government. 

Moreover,  the  heads  of  the  several  executive  de- 
partments are  justly  to  be  viewed  as  auxiliaries  to 
the  executive  chief.  Opposition  to  any  measure  of 
his,  by  either  of  those  heads  of  departments,  except 
in  the  shape  of  frank,  firm,  and  independent  advice 
to  himself,  is  evidently  contrary  to  the  relations 
which  subsist  between  the  parties.  And  it  cannot 
well  be  controverted  that  a  measure  becomes  his,  so 
as  to  involve  the  duty  of  acquiescence  on  the  part  of 
the  members  of  his  administration,  as  well  by  its  hav- 
ing received  his  sanction  in  the  form  of  a  law,  as  by 
its  having  previously  received  his  approbation. 

In  the  theory  of  our  government,  the  chief  magis- 
trate is  himself  responsible  for  the  exercise  of  every 
power  vested  in  him  by  the  Constitution.  One  of 
the  powers  intrusted  to  him,  is  that  of  objecting  to 
bills  which  have  passed  the  two  houses  of  Congress. 
This  supposes  the  duty  of  objecting,  when  he  is  of 
opinion  that  the  object  of  any  bill  is  either  uncon- 
stitutional or  pernicious.  The  approbation  of  a  bill 
implies,  that  he  does  not  think  it  either  the  one  or 
the  other;  and  it  makes  him  responsible  to  the  com- 
munity for  this  opinion.  The  measure  becomes  his 
by  adoption,  nor  could  he  escape  a  portion  of  the 


Metellus  287 

blame  which  should  finally  attach  itself  to  a  bad 
measure  to  which  he  had  given  his  consent. 

I  am  prepared  for  some  declamation  against  the 
principles  which  have  been  laid  down.  Some  plausi- 
ble flourishes  have  already  been  indulged;  and  it  is 
to  be  expected  that  the  public  ear  will  be  still  further 
assailed  with  the  commonplace  topics  that  so  readily 
present  themselves,  and  are  so  dexterously  detailed 
by  the  traffickers  in  popular  prejudices.  But  it  need 
never  be  feared  to  submit  a  solid  truth  to  the  deliber- 
ate and  final  opinion  of  an  enlightened  and  sober 
people. 

What!  (it  will  probably  be  asked)  is  a  man  to 
sacrifice  his  conscience  and  his  judgment  to  an  office? 
Is  he  to  be  a  dumb  spectator  of  measures  which  he 
deems  subversive  of  the  rights  or  interests  of  his 
fellow-citizens?  Is  he  to  postpone  to  the  frivolous 
rules  of  a  false  complaisance,  or  the  arbitrary  dic- 
tates of  a  tyrannical  decorum,  the  higher  duty  which 
he  owes  to  the  community? 

I  answer,  No!  he  is  to  do  none  of  these  things.  If 
he  cannot  coalesce  with  those  with  whom  he  is 
associated,  as  far  as  the  rules  of  official  decorum, 
propriety,  and  obligation  may  require,  without  aban- 
doning what  he  conceives  to  be  the  true  interest  of 
the  community,  let  him  place  himself  in  a  situation 
in  which  he  will  experience  no  collision  of  opposite 
duties.  Let  him  not  cling  to  the  honor  or  emolu- 
ment of  an  office,  whichever  it  may  be  that  attracts 
him,  and  content  himself  with  defending  the  injured 
rights  of  the  people  by  obscure  or  indirect  means. 
Let  him  renounce  a  situation  which  is  a  clog  upon 


288  Alexander  Hamilton 

his  patriotism;  tell  the  people  that  he  could  no 
longer  continue  in  it  without  forfeiting  his  duty  to 
them,  and  that  he  had  quitted  it  to  be  more  at  liberty 
to  afford  them  his  best  services. 

Such  is  the  course  which  would  be  indicated  by  a 
firm  and  virtuous  independence  of  character.  Such 
the  course  that  would  be  pursued  by  a  man  attentive 
to  unite  the  sense  of  delicacy  with  the  sense  of  duty, 
in  earnest  about  the  pernicious  tendency  of  public 
measures,  and  more  solicitous  to  act  the  disinterested 
friend  of  the  people,  than  the  interested,  ambitious, 
and  intriguing  head  of  a  party. 

METELLUS. 


CATULLUS 
v 

November  24,  1792. 

It  was  my  intention  to  have  closed  with  my  last 
paper  the  discussion  of  Mr.  Jefferson's  conduct,  in 
the  particulars  which  have  been  suggested,  but  the 
singular  complexion  of  the  last  number  of  a  series  of 
papers  originating  in  the  American  Daily  Advertiser, 
obliges  me  to  resume  it. 

As  if  bold  assertion  were  capable  of  imposing  any 
thing  for  truth,  an  attempt  is  made  in  the  papers 
alluded  to  to  impress  the  following  opinions:  ist. 
That  the  extract  which  was  given  of  Mr.  Jefferson's 
letter,  on  the  subject  of  a  proposition  for  the  transfer 
of  the  French  debt,  is  "false,"  " deceptive,"  and 
"mutilated."  These  are  the  epithets  in  different 
passages  applied  to  it.  26..  That  Mr.  Jefferson  was 


Catullus  289 

the  mere  vehicle,  or,  to  use  the  precise  terms,  "  only 
the  vehicle  of  communication  to  Congress.*'  3d. 
That  he  ''discountenanced"  the  proposition.  4th. 
That  the  " only"  proposition  which  he  made  to  Con- 
gress was  to  borrow  the  money  in  Holland  to  dis- 
charge the  debt. 

To  give  color  to  these  assertions,  I  am  called  upon 
to  produce  the  entire  paragraph,  from  which  the  ex- 
tract has  been  made,  and  it  is  suggested  that  the 
whole  was  deposited  in  the  quarter  whence  the  ex- 
tract is  believed  to  have  been  taken. 

I  pledge  my  veracity  that  this  suggestion  is  un- 
founded ;  as  is  another — that  the  information  which 
has  been  communicated  by  me  is  derived  from  the 
opportunities  of  official  situation.  I  affirm  unequi- 
vocally that  I  obtained,  through  different  channels, 
a  full  knowledge  of  the  transaction  in  February, 
1787 — being  in  no  public  station  whatever;  that  I 
then  saw  the  extract,  which  has  been  published,  and 
which  was  at  that  time  taken  from  the  original  letter, 
and  has  since  been  preserved  in  the  most  authentic 
form;  that  I  then  also  received  information  equally 
authentic  of  the  general  substance  of  the  letter,  as 
relating  to  the  matter  in  question,  and  of  all  other 
particulars  concerning  it,  which  have  heretofore 
been  stated,  and  which  have  been  preserved  in  a 
manner  that  admits  no  doubt  of  their  accuracy  and 
genuineness.  For  this,  I  again  appeal  to  the  letter 
itself,  on  the  files  of  the  Department  of  State,  where 
alone,  as  far  as  I  am  informed,  its  entire  contents  are 
deposited,  and  which  I  entertain  no  doubt  will  con- 
firm not  only  the  truth  of  the  extract  which  has  been 


VOL.  VII. — IQ. 


290  Alexander  Hamilton 

given,  but  the  justness  of  the  representation  of  the 
contents  of  the  letter  in  all  other  respects. 

Considering  the  extract  as  genuine,  which  undoubt- 
edly it  is,  it  speaks  for  itself — and  unequivocally 
falsifies  the  suggestion  that  Mr.  Jefferson  was  "only 
the  vehicle"  of  communication  to  Congress.  It 
imports,  without  the  possibility  of  evasion,  advice  to 
accede  to  the  proposition  which  was  made  to  the 
Dutch  company,  on  the  dishonorable  ground  of 
there  being  danger  that  the  public  payments  would 
not  be  punctual,  and  of  its  being  in  that  case  expedient 
to  transfer  the  discontents,  which  would  arise  from 
the  want  of  punctuality,  from  the  court  of  France  to 
the  breasts  of  a  private  company.  It  therefore  clearly 
makes  him  more  than  the  mere  vehicle  of  com- 
munication— the  patron  and  adviser  of  the  measure 
upon  the  condition  which  has  been  stated.  It  as 
clearly  refutes  the  astonishing  assertion  that  he 
" discountenanced"  the  proposition,  whatever  sub- 
terfuge may  be  brought  to  color  it.  And  it  equally 
destroys  the  other  allegation,  that  the  only  proposi- 
tion which  Mr.  Jefferson  made  to  Congress,  was  to 
borrow  the  money  in  Holland  to  discharge  the  debt. 

It  has  been  admitted,  that  there  was  another  pro- 
position, in  the  same  letter,  of  that  import;  but  it  is 
denied,  under  the  appeal  which  has  been  made,  that 
it  in  any  manner  derogates  from  the  advice  con- 
tained in  the  extract.  It  is  understood  to  have  been 
offered  as  an  alternative,  in  case  the  proposition  of 
the  Dutch  company  should  not  be  approved — as 
another  mode  which  might  be  adopted  to  effect  the 
payment  of  France. 


Catullus  291 

It  will  be  remarked  by  an  attentive  reader  that, 
while  an  artful  attempt  is  made  to  bring  into  ques- 
tion the  genuineness  of  the  extract,  a  direct  denial  of 
its  genuineness  is  not  hazarded.  Recourse  is  had  to 
equivocal  implications.  It  is  said  to  be  " false"  and 
"  deceptive,"  not  in  terms,  but  "upon  a  sound  con- 
struction,"-—that  "the  contents  of  the  letter,  even 
in  the  extract  published,  have  been  shamefully  mis- 
represented,"— not  that  the  extract  is  itself  a  forgery, 
but  that  "  other  parts  of  the  letter,  absolutely  neces- 
sary for  the  full  comprehension  of  it,  are  kept  back." 
The  jargon  of  asserting,  that  a  literal  extract  from  a 
paper  is  "false, and  deceptive  upon  a  sound  construc- 
tion," is  a  proof  of  the  embarrassment  of  the  com- 
mentator. Whoever  will  examine  the  extract  will 
perceive,  that  as  to  the  purpose  to  which  it  has  been 
applied,  it  is  an  entire  thing.  The  sentiment  repro- 
bated is  there  complete,  and  can  be  affected  by  no- 
thing collateral.  The  inferences  resulting  from  it  can 
only  be  repelled  by  establishing  that  the  extract  is 
in  terms  false.  This,  I  believe,  will  not  be  pretended. 

It  is  as  little  true  (in  the  sense  in  which  it  is  evi- 
dently meant  to  be  understood)  that  the  proposition 
for  the  transfer  of  the  debt  has  been  imposed  upon 
Mr.  Jefferson  as  his  own,  as  it  is  that  he  dis- 
countenanced it.  It  has  been  acknowledged  that  the 
offer  was  first  made  by  the  Dutch  company;  and 
has  only  been  maintained  that  Mr.  Jefferson  advised 
its  acceptance  on  principles  contrary  to  good  morals ; 
a  position  which  can  never  be  overthrown  without 
introducing  a  new  system  of  ethics.  In  this  sense, 
too,  and  with  the  disapprobation  which  belongs  to 


292  Alexander  Hamilton 

it,  was  it  understood  by  those  to  whom  the  advice 
was  addressed,  to  the  honor  of  the  public  councils  of 
the  day. 

It  is  suggested  that  the  animadversions  upon  Mr. 
Jefferson's  conduct  in  these  papers  proceed  from 
"private  revenge."  This  supposes  some  private  in- 
jury, real  or  imagined.  The  assertor  must  be  not 
a  little  embarrassed  to  support  the  probability  of 
such  a  cause.  It  is  affirmed  that  none  such  exists. 
Private  revenge,  therefore,  cannot  be  the  stimulus. 
Let  facts  speak  the  true  motives. 

CATULLUS. 


VI 

December  22,  1792. 

If  perseverance  can  supply  the  want  of  judgment, 
Mr.  Jefferson  has  an  excellent  advocate  in  the  writer 
of  his  "  Vindication. "  But  I  mistake,  if  his  last  at- 
tempt is  not  found  to  involve  still  more  deeply  the 
character  he  wishes  to  extricate. 

To  repel  the  imputation  on  Mr.  Jefferson  arising 
from  the  advice  which  he  gave  to  Congress  respecting 
the  debt  to  France,  he  not  only  labors  to  show  that, 
taken  in  all  its  circumstances,  it  is  not  of  the  excep- 
tional complexion  under  which  it  has  been  repre- 
sented, but  endeavors  to  infuse  a  belief,  that  the 
sense  of  the  extract  originally  communicated  has 
been  altered  by  the  interpolation  of  certain  words, 
as  well  as  by  the  suppression  of  a  part  of  a  para- 
graph from  which  the  extract  is  derived. 

It  will  strike  the  most  careless  observer  as  not  a 


Catullus  293 

little  extraordinary,  that  a  person  who  by  under- 
taking to  state  the  contents  of  a  letter  with  precise 
accuracy,  and  even  to  detect  a  minute  verbal  devia- 
tion, must  be  understood  to  have  access  to  the  origi- 
nal, should,  instead  of  submitting  to  the  public  eye 
a  literal  transcript  of  that  original,  content  himself 
with  giving  his  own  paraphrase  of  it,  and  should 
expect  that  this  would  be  accepted  upon  the  strength 
of  his  assurance,  that  it  exhibits  the  genuine  contents 
of  the  letter,  on  the  point  in  dispute,  contained  in 
one  paragraph  only ;  "  that  the  arrangement  of  the  idea 
is  the  same,  and  that  in  substance  nothing  has  been 
added  to  or  taken  from  it,"  thus  modestly  offering 
his  own  construction  of  substance,  the  very  thing  in 
question,  for  the  thing  itself. 

That  the  extract,  as  given  by  me,  is  correct  in 
every  material  expression,  is  proved  by  the  statement 
in  the  VINDICATION.  That  it  is  literally  correct,  I 
must  continue  to  believe  until  something  more  to  be 
depended  upon  than  constructive  substance  is  offered 
in  lieu  of  it. 

The  information  I  possess  is  drawn  from  two 
sources;  one  a  memorandum  in  the  handwriting  of 
a  friend,  which  was  given  to  me  as  an  exact  tran- 
script of  the  words  of  the  letter,  and  which  was 
copied  verbatim,  in  the  second  of  these  papers;  the 
other,  a  document  of  unquestionable  authenticity, 
not  long  since  consulted,  which  states  the  contents 
of  Mr.  Jefferson's  letter  in  the  following  form: 

Mr.  Jefferson  suggests,  that  if  there  is  a  danger 
of  the  public  payments  not  being  punctual,  "  whether 
it  might  not  be  better  that  the  discontents  which 


294  Alexander  Hamilton 

would  then  arise,  should  be  transferred  from  a  court, 
of  whose  good  will  we  have  so  much  need,  to  the 
breasts  of  a  private  company." 

"  That  the  credit  of  the  United  States  is  sound  in 
Holland,  and  that  it  would  probably  not  be  difficult 
to  borrow  in  that  country  the  whole  sum  of  money 
due  to  the  court  of  France;  and  to  discharge  that 
debt  without  any  deduction,  thereby  doing  what 
would  be  grateful  to  the  court,  and  establishing  with 
them  a  confidence  in  our  honor." 

This  statement  in  the  document  alluded  to  serves 
to  confirm  the  memorandum,  in  form  as  well  as 
substance.  Speaking  in  the  third  person,  it  repre- 
sents Mr.  Jefferson  as  suggesting  "  whether  it  might 
not  be  better,"  etc.,  whence  it  is  natural  to  infer 
that,  speaking  in  the  first  person  in  the  letter,  the 
terms  are,  "I  submit  whether  it  may  not  be  better, " 
etc. 

The  form  of  conveying  the  idea  by  way  of  ques- 
tion is  common  to  both  vouchers;  and  the  word 
" whether,"  which  is  also  common  to  both,  presup- 
poses the  words  "  I  suggest,"  or  "  I  submit,"  the  last 
being  the  most  accurate,  and  in  that  view  the  most 
likely  to  have  been  used. 

It  is  observable,  also,  that  the  same  statement 
disconnects  the  two  propositions,  and  gives  them  a 
distinct  and  independent  aspect.  The  conjunction 
"but,"  which  is  alleged  to  be  in  the  original,  does 
not  appear  in  that  statement. 

It  is  possible,  nevertheless,  that  some  immaterial 
departures  from  literal  precision  may  have  found 
their  way  into  the  transcripts,  which  are  relied  upon. 


Catullus  295 

But  while  this  concession  as  a  bare  possibility  is 
made,  it  is  not  intended  as  an  escape  from  a  rigorous 
responsibility  for  the  essential  accuracy  of  the  dis- 
closure. If  there  be  in  what  has  been  communicated 
as  a  literal  extract,  any  expression  the  least  material, 
tending  to  the  crimination  of  Mr.  Jefferson,  which  is 
not  to  be  found  in  the  original,  it  is  admitted  to  be 
inexcusable.  But  not  having  been  possessed  of  the 
original,  as  has  been  several  times  stated,  any  ac- 
cidental variation  of  expression,  not  affecting  at  all 
the  sense  of  the  quotation,  or  not  affecting  it  disad- 
vantageously  to  Mr.  Jefferson,  cannot  be  admitted  to 
be  of  moment  in  regard  either  to  the  merits  of  the 
discussion  or  to  the  fairness  of  the  procedure.  To 
press  such  a  variance  as  an  objection,  is  to  cavil,  and 
to  betray  a  consciousness  of  weakness. 

Now  it  happens  that  the  variance  which  is  alleged 
to  exist,  if  it  has  any  influence  upon  the  meaning  of 
the  passage,  has  one  favorable  to  Mr.  Jefferson; 
taking  it  for  granted  that  his  apologist  has  given  a 
true  account  of  it.  This  will  be  seen  by  carefully 
contrasting  the  phraseology  in  the  two  cases. 

The  extract,  as  stated  by  me,  is  in  these  words: 
"//  there  is  a  danger  of  the  public  payments  not  being 
punctual,  I  submit  whether  it  may  not  be  better  that 
the  discontents  which  would  then  arise,  should  be  trans- 
ferred from  a  court,  of  whose  good  will  we  have  so  much 
need,  to  the  breasts  of  a  private  company." 

The  statement  in  the  vindication  represents  that 
Mr.  Jefferson  "  having  stated  the  proposition  as  above 
(referring  to  the  proposition  for  the  purchase  of  the 
debt),  observes  further  upon  it  in  its  relation  to  this 


296  Alexander  Hamilton 

country,  that  if  there  be  a  danger  our  payments  may 
not  be  punctual,  it  might  be  better  that  the  discon- 
tents which  would  then  arise,  should  be  transferred 
from  a  court,  of  whose  good  will  we  have  so  much 
need,  to  the  breasts  of  a  private  company." 

All  the  material  and  exceptionable  phrases  are  the 
same  in  the  two  statements.  The  only  difference 
between  them  is  that  in  the  first  Mr.  Jefferson  is 
made  to  submit  in  the  modest  form  of  a  question, 
"whether  it  might  not  be  better,"  the  identical  senti- 
ment or  advice,  which,  in  the  last,  he  is  made  to  con- 
vey in  the  affirmative  tone  of  an  observation,  that 
"it  might  be  better."  The  last  mode  of  expression  is 
certainly  stronger  than  the  first,  and  if  the  sentiment 
conveyed  be,  as  it  undoubtedly  is,  an  improper  one, 
the  censure  due  to  it  is  increased  by  the  greater 
degree  of  decision  with  which  it  is  expressed,  as  being 
an  indication  of  a  more  decided  state  of  mind  con- 
cerning it.  This  remark,  which  might  otherwise 
appear  nice  and  critical,  is  naturally  drawn  forth  by 
the  attempt  to  have  it  understood  that  the  words  "  / 
submit  whether,"  which  are  said  to  have  been  inter- 
polated, have  an  influence  upon  the  sense  of  the 
clause  injurious  to  Mr.  Jefferson.1 

The  result  is  that  the  alteration  of  terms  said  to 
have  been  made,  if  real,  must  have  been  casual, 
because  it  either  does  not  vary  the  sense,  or  varies  it 
favorably  to  Mr.  Jefferson ;  and,  consequently,  that 
the  charge  which  has  been  brought  rests  upon  him  in 

1  The  words  "might  not  be  better,"  are  also  said  to  have  been  inter- 
polated, though  all  but  the  "not"  are  in  the  quotation  made  by  the  Vin- 
dicator; a  specimen  of  his  accuracy. 


Catullus  297 

its  primitive  force,  unmitigated  by  the  alleged 
change  of  terms. 

In  like  manner,  admitting  the  statement  of  what  is 
said  to  follow  as  a  part  of  the  same  paragraph,  to  be 
truly  represented  in  the  vindication,  it  either  corre- 
sponds with  the  view  I  have  heretofore  given  of  the 
matter,  or  it  implicates  Mr.  Jefferson  in  greater  re- 
prehensibility  than  has  yet  been  charged  upon  him. 
It  either  presents  an  alternative  proposition  pre- 
dicated upon  the  supposition  of  a  state  of  things  differ- 
ent from  that  which  is  the  basis  of  the  first,  namely,  the 
danger  of  a  deficiency  of  means  for  punctual  pay- 
ment, and  in  that  case  does  not  derogate  from  the 
first ;  or  proceeding  upon  the  supposition  of  the  same 
state  of  things,  it  contains  advice  to  Congress  to  avail 
themselves  of  the  yet  sound  state  of  their  credit  in 
Holland,  treacherously  to  induce  individuals  upon 
the  invitation  of  the  government  to  lend  their  money 
on  the  ordinary  terms,  for  the  purpose  of  making  full 
payment  to  France,  in  order  to  guard  her  from  loss, 
and  preserve  her  confidence,  in  direct  contempla- 
tion of  not  being  able  to  render  the  stipulated  justice 
to  those  individuals.  If  this  was  the  advice  of  Mr. 
Jefferson,  it  leaves  his  conduct  without  even  those 
slight  extenuations  which  have  been  supposed  to 
afford  a  semblance  of  apology.  It  takes  away  the 
feeble  pretexts  deduced  from  the  offer  having  origi- 
nated with  the  company,  and  from  their  gaining  a 
considerable  boon  in  the  first  purchase. 

The  last,  I  acknowledge,  is  the  construction  best 
warranted  by  the  structure  of  the  paragraph  as 
delineated  in  the  vindication.  This,  as  it  there 


298  Alexander  Hamilton 

stands,  would  be  the  most  obvious  and  natural  read- 
ing. If  there  be  a  danger  that  our  payments  may 
not  be  punctual,  it  may  be  better  that  the  discon- 
tents which  would  then  arise,  should  be  transferred 
from  a  court,  of  whose  good  will  we  have  so  much 
need,  to  the  breasts  of  a  private  company.  But 
still  it  has  occurred  to  me  that  we  may  do  what  is 
preferable  to  accepting  the  proposition  of  the  Dutch 
company.  We  may  find  occasion  to  do  what  would 
be  grateful  to  the  court  of  France,  and  establish  with 
them  a  confidence  in  our  honor.  Our  credit  is  good 
in  Holland — may  it  not  be  possible  then  to  borrow 
there  the  four  and  twenty  millions  due  to  France, 
and  pay  them  the  whole  debt  at  once  ?  This,  besides 
transferring  the  discontents  to  be  expected  from 
the  want  of  punctual  payments,  from  the  court  of 
France  to  the  breasts  of  individuals,  would  have  the 
further  advantage  of  saving  that  court  from  any  loss 
on  our  account.  It  is  in  this  sense  only,  that  the 
first  suggestion  can  be  considered  as  overruled  by  or 
absorbed  in  the  last,  and  that  Mr.  Jefferson  can  be 
said  to  have  discountenanced  the  proposition  made 
by  the  Dutch  company.  If  this  be  the  meaning  in- 
tended to  be  contended  for,  no  pains  will  be  taken 
to  dispute  it;  and  the  comment  will  be  left  to  Mr. 
Jefferson's  most  partial  admirers. 

The  writer  of  the  vindication  continues  to  insist 
that  Mr.  Jefferson  was  only  the  vehicle  of  communi- 
cation, assigning  as  reasons  for  this  assertion,  that 
the  transaction  had  taken  place  between  the  parties, 
before  any  mention  was  made  of  it  to  him,  and  that 
in  communicating  it  to  Congress,  he  only  made 


Catullus  299 

known  to  that  body  the  desire  both  of  the  company 
and  of  the  French  court,  that  the  opinion  which  he 
gave  arose  out  of  the  proposition,  was  in  furtherance 
of  the  views  of  the  parties,  and  that,  in  fact,  no  decision 
could  be  formed  on  it,  either  by  the  Congress,  or  him- 
self, without  a  comparison  of  the  parties  as  creditors 
of  the  United  States.  But  these  reasons  do  not 
prove  that  Mr.  Jefferson  was  only  the  vehicle  of 
communication ;  they  prove  the  contrary:  that  he 
was  both  the  vehicle  of  communication,  and  the 
patron  though  not  the  author  of  the  proposition. 
The  precise  difference  between  being  the  mere  ve- 
hicle, and  being  both  the  vehicle  and  the  patron  of 
a  proposition,  consists  in  this :  that  in  the  first  case 
the  agent  does  nothing  more  than  communicate  the 
proposition ;  in  the  last,  he  gives  an  opinion  arising 
out  of  it,  in  furtherance  of  the  views  of  the  proposers; 
which  is  exactly  what  is  acknowledged  to  have  been 
done  by  Mr.  Jefferson. 

The  plea  that  there  could  be  no  immortality  or 
indelicacy  in  espousing  a  proposition  coming  from 
the  parties  interested,  amounts  to  nothing.  The 
charge  is  not  that  advice  was  given  to  accede  to  the 
proposition,  but  that  advice  was  given  to  accede  to 
it,  upon  a  ground  which  was  dishonorable  and  un- 
just. It  is  the  condition  upon  which  the  acceptance 
is  advised  that  constitutes  the  culpability. 

In  No.  4  of  the  vindication,  the  attack  upon  Mr. 
Jefferson  is  said  to  proceed  from  private  revenge.  In 
No.  5,  it  changes  its  nature,  and  becomes  an  attack 
upon  principles — a  monarchical  plot  against  the  re- 
publican character  of  the  community.  How  long 


3OO  Alexander  Hamilton 

and  how  often  are  the  people  of  America  to  be 
insulted  with  this  hypocritical  rant?  When  will 
these  political  pharisees  learn  that  their  countrymen 
have  too  much  discernment  to  be  the  dupes  of  their 
hollow  and  ostentatious  pretensions;  that  the  citi- 
zens know  how  to  distinguish  the  men  who  serve 
them  from  those  who  only  flatter  them,  the  men  who 
have  substantial  claims  to  their  confidence  from 
those  who  study  to  conceal  the  want  of  qualities, 
really  solid  and  useful,  under  the  mask  of  extra- 
ordinary and  exclusive  patriotism  and  purity? 

It  is  curious  to  observe  the  pathetic  wailings  which 
have  been  prodiiced  by  the  animadversions  in  these 
papers.  It  would  seem  as  if  a  certain  party  consid- 
ered themselves  as  the  sole  and  rightful  censors  of 
the  Republic ;  and  every  attempt  to  bestow  praise  or 
blame  not  originating  with  them,  as  a  usurpation  of 
their  prerogative, — every  stricture  on  any  of  their 
immaculate  band,  as  a  breach  of  their  privilege. 
They  appear  to  think  themselves  authorized  to  deal 
out  anathemas,  without  measure  or  mercy,  against 
all  who  dare  to  swerve  from  their  standard  of  politi- 
cal orthodoxy,  which  are  to  be  borne  without  retalia- 
tion or  murmur.  And  if  any  symptom  of  either 
shows  itself,  they  are  sure  to  raise  the  dismal  cry  of 
persecution;  themselves  the  first  to  assail,  and  the 
first  to  complain.  But  what  is  not  permitted  to 
men  who  have  so  clearly  established  a  title,  little  less 
than  divine,  to  a  monopoly  of  all  the  patriotic 
virtues! 

The  only  answer  which  is  due  to  the  feint  of  offer- 
ing to  enter  into  arrangements  for  ascertaining 


A  Plain  Honest  Man  301 

whether  the  writer  of  these  papers  has,  in  the  in- 
stance under  consideration,  been  guilty  of  misrepre- 
sentation— and  the  breach  of  an  official  duty, — is  to 
remind  the  public,  that  in  my  first  paper  I  declared 
myself  willing  to  be  known  on  proper  terms  to  the 
officer  concerned.  To  this  I  adhere  in  the  spirit  of 
the  original  intimation,  but  I  deem  a  personal  dis- 
closure to  any  subaltern  of  his,  improper;  nor  do  I 
perceive  that  it  is  in  the  present  case  necessary  to  an 
investigation  of  the  facts.  The  writer  of  the  vindica- 
tion admits  in  substance  what  is  alleged;  and  as 
to  his  collateral  statements,  it  has  been  shown  that 
they  imply  more  blame  on  the  character  meant  to 
be  exculpated  than  was  originally  charged.  I  for- 
bear any  comment  on  the  indecency  of  naming  upon 
conjecture  the  person  who  has  been  named  as  the 
author  of  these  papers,  or  upon  the  palpable  artifice 
of  making  an  avowal  of  them,  by  that  particular 
person,  the  condition  of  a  disclosure  of  the  name  of 
the  writer  of  the  vindication.  Indecency  and  arti- 
fice are  the  proper  weapons  of  such  adversaries. 

CATULLUS. 


A   PLAIN    HONEST    MAN 

For  the  Gazette  of  the  United  States. 

1792. 

In  consequence  of  the  intimation  contained  in  the 
first  number  of  the  vindication  of  Mr.  Jefferson, 
which  originated  in  the  American  Daily  Advertiser, 
that,  "  if  any  doubt  should  be  suggested  of  the  au- 
thenticity of  the  extracts  published,  they  should  be 


302  Alexander  Hamilton 

immediately  made  accessible  to  others,"  a  person 
called  upon  Mr.  Dunlap  to  obtain  an  inspection  of 
those  originals.  He  replied  that  they  had  not  been 
left  with  him,  neither  was  he  possessed  of  the  neces- 
sary information  where  to  direct  or  inquire,  but  if 
desired  he  would,  by  advertisement,  notify  the  ap- 
plication for  a  perusal  of  the  letters. 

A  statement  of  this  answer,  as  extraordinary  as 
unexpected,  was  prepared  to  be  inserted  in  this 
gazette,  and  was  communicated  to  Mr.  Dunlap  with 
a  view  to  verify  its  accuracy.  The  evening  before 
that  destined  for  its  appearance,  Mr.  D.  called  upon 
the  person  and  informed  him  that  the  originals  were 
now  to  be  seen,  and  would  be  communicated  to  any 
person  who  might  incline  to  see  them,  observing,  at 
the  same  time,  that  it  appeared  to  him  that  it  could 
not  be  necessary  to  publish  the  statement  which  has 
been  mentioned,  as  intended.  This  was  accordingly 
forborne. 

On  the  i  yth  November,  Mr.  D.  was  again  applied 
to  and  again  proposed  an  advertisement,  but  after- 
wards hinted,  as  a  preliminary  condition  of  the  letters 
being  seen,  that  the  person  in  whose  possession  the 
letters  were  should  be  made  acquainted  with  the 
name  of  the  person  who  applied  for  that  purpose. 
Mr.  D.  afterwards  said  he  would  apply  again  for  the 
letters  and  have  them  in  his  own  possession  to  show 
them,  agreeable  to  the  declaration  published;  but 
after  this,  being  again  applied  to,  answered  as  before, 
that  the  applicant  must  be  previously  known. 

On  the  -  -  a  note  appeared  in  Mr.  Dunlap 's 
paper  of  that  day,  which,  after  commenting  on  the 


Hamilton  to  Washington  303 

disingenuousness  of  some  doubts  printed  in  one  of 
the  papers  under  the  signature  of  "Catullus,"  gives 
"  notice  that  any  gentleman  of  known  honor  and 
delicacy,  who  shall  be  named  to  the  editor  of  the 
American  Daily  Advertiser  shall  have  an  opportunity 
of  examining  not  only  the  passages  extracted,  but 
the  entire  contents  of  the  original  letter." 

What  gentleman  of  real  delicacy  would  be  willing 
to  present  himself  under  the  professed  character  of  a 
" gentleman  of  known  honor  and  delicacy,"  at  the 
hazard  of  being  affronted  by  a  rejection  to  obtain  the 
proffered  access?  Is  not  an  offer  so  clogged  a  felo 
de  se?  What  is  the  natural  inference?  If  I  am  not, 
Mr.  Printer,  a  "  gentleman  of  known  honor  and  deli- 
cacy," I  hope  you  will  not  think  the  worse  of  me 
for  being  only 

A  PLAIN  HONEST  MAN. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON  x 

PHILADELPHIA,  September  9,  1792. 

SIR: — I  have  the  pleasure  of  your  private  letter  of 
the  26th  of  August.  The  feelings  and  views  which 
are  manifested  in  that  letter  are  such  as  I  expected 
would  exist.  And  I  most  sincerely  regret  the 
causes  of  the  uneasy  sensations  you  experience.  It 
is  my  most  anxious  wish,  as  far  as  may  depend  upon 

1  The  quarrel  between  Hamilton  and  Jefferson  gave  Washington 
much  pain,  and  he  accordingly  wrote  to  both,  urging  forbearance  and 
harmony  in  the  interests  of  the  administration.  This  was  Hamilton's 
reply.  It  is  brief  and  manly  and  compares  very  favorably  with  Jef- 
ferson's answer,  written  at  the  same  time. 


304  Alexander  Hamilton 

me,  to  smooth  the  path  of  your  administration,  and 
to  render  it  prosperous  and  happy.  And  if  any  pro- 
spect shall  open  of  healing  or  terminating  the  differ- 
ences which  exist,  I  shall  most  cheerfully  embrace  it ; 
though  I  consider  myself  as  the  deeply  injured  party. 
The  recommendation  of  such  a  spirit  is  worthy  of  the 
moderation  and  wisdom  which  dictated  it.  And  if 
your  endeavors  should  prove  unsuccessful,  I  do  not 
hesitate  to  say,  that  in  my  opinion  the  period  is  not 
remote,  when  the  public  good  will  require  substitutes 
for  the  differing  members  of  your  administration. 
The  continuance  of  a  division  there  must  destroy  the 
energy  of  government,  which  will  be  little  enough 
with  the  strictest  union.  On  my  part  there  will  be  a 
most  cheerful  acquiescence  in  such  a  result. 

I  trust,  sir,  that  the  greatest  frankness  has  always 
marked,  and  will  always  mark,  every  step  of  my 
conduct  towards  you.  In  this  disposition  I  cannot 
conceal  from  you,  that  I  have  had  some  instrumen- 
tality of  late  in  the  retaliations  which  have  fallen 
upon  certain  public  characters,  and  that  I  find  my- 
self placed  in  a  situation  not  to  be  able  to  recede  for 
the  present. 

I  considered  myself  as  compelled  to  this  conduct 
by  reasons  public  as  well  as  personal,  of  the  most 
cogent  nature.  I  know  that  I  have  been  an  object 
of  uniform  opposition  from  Mr.  Jefferson,  from  the 
moment  of  his  coming  to  the  city  of  New  York  to 
enter  upon  his  present  office.  I  know  from  the  most 
authentic  sources,  that  I  have  been  the  frequent 
subject  of  the  most  unkind  whispers  and  insinua- 
tions from  the  same  quarter.  I  have  long  seen  a 


Hamilton  to  Washington  305 

party  formed  in  the  Legislature  under  his  auspices, 
bent  upon  my  subversion.  I  cannot  doubt  from  the 
evidence  I  possess,  that  the  National  Gazette  was  in- 
stituted by  him  for  political  purposes,  and  that  one 
leading  object  of  it  has  been  to  render  me,  and  all 
the  measures  connected  with  my  department,  as 
odious  as  possible.  Nevertheless,  I  can  truly  say, 
that,  except  explanations  to  confidential  friends,  I 
never  directly  or  indirectly  retaliated  or  counten- 
anced retaliation  till  very  lately.  I  can  even  assure 
you,  that  I  was  instrumental  in  preventing  a  very 
severe  and  systematic  attack  upon  Mr.  Jefferson  by 
an  association  of  two  or  three  individuals,  in  conse- 
quence of  the  persecution  which  he  brought  upon  the 
Vice-President,  by  his  indiscreet  and  light  letter  to 
the  printer,  transmitting  Paine 's  pamphlet. 

As  long  as  I  saw  no  danger  to  the  government 
from  the  machinations  which  were  going  on,  I  re- 
solved to  be  a  silent  sufferer  of  the  injuries  which 
were  done  me.  I  determined  to  avoid  giving  occa- 
sion to  any  thing  which  could  manifest  to  the  world 
dissensions  among  the  principal  characters  of  the 
government;  a  thing  which  can  never  happen  with- 
out weakening  its  hands,  and  in  some  degree  throw- 
ing a  stigma  upon  it. 

But  when  I  no  longer  doubted  that  there  was  a 
formed  party  deliberately  bent  upon  the  subversion 
of  measures,  which  in  its  consequences  would  sub- 
vert the  government;  when  I  saw  that  the  undoing 
of  the  funding  system  in  particular  (which,  whatever 
may  be  the  original  merits  of  that  system,  would 
prostrate  the  credit  and  the  honor  of  the  nation,  and 


VOL.  VII. — 20. 


306  Alexander  Hamilton 

bring  the  government  into  contempt  with  that  de- 
scription of  men  who  are  in  every  society  the  only 
firm  supporters  of  government)  was  an  avowed  ob- 
ject of  the  party,  and  that  all  possible  pains  were 
taken  to  produce  that  effect,  by  rendering  it  odious 
to  the  body  of  the  people,  I  considered  it  as  a  duty 
to  endeavor  to  resist  the  torrent,  and,  as  an  effectual 
means  to  this  end,  to  draw  aside  the  veil  from  the 
principal  actors.  To  this  strong  impulse,  to  this 
decided  conviction,  I  have  yielded.  And  I  think 
events  will  prove  that  I  have  judged  rightly. 

Nevertheless,  I  pledge  my  honor  to  you,  sir,  that 
if  you  shall  hereafter  form  a  plan  to  reunite  the 
members  of  your  administration  upon  some  steady 
principle  of  cooperation,  I  will  faithfully  concur  in 
executing  it  during  my  continuance  in  office;  and  I 
will  not  directly  or  indirectly  say  or  do  a  thing  that 
shall  endanger  a  feud. 

I  have  had  it  very  much  at  heart  to  make  an  ex- 
cursion to  Mount  Vernon,  by  way  of  the  federal  city, 
in  the  course  of  this  month,  and  have  more  than 
once  been  on  the  point  of  asking  your  permission  for 
it.  But  I  now  despair  of  being  able  to  effect  it.  I 
am,  nevertheless,  equally  obliged  by  your  kind 
invitation. 

With  the  most  affectionate  and  faithful  attach- 
ment, etc. 


THE  ADAMS  CONTROVERSY 


307 


THE  ADAMS  CONTROVERSY 


THE   PUBLIC   CONDUCT  AND   CHARACTER  OF   JOHN 

ADAMS,   ESQ.,    PRESIDENT  OP  THE  UNITED 

STATES  1 

SIR: 

Some  of  the  warm  personal  friends  of  Mr.  Adams 
are  taking  unwearied  pains  to  disparage  the  motives 
of  those  Federalists  who  advocate  the  equal  support 
of  General  Pinckney  at  the  approaching  election  of 
President  and  Vice- President.  They  are  exhibited 
under  a  variety  of  aspects  equally  derogatory. 
Sometimes  they  are  versatile,  factious  spirits,  who 
cannot  be  long  satisfied  with  any  chief,  however 
meritorious;  sometimes  they  are  ambitious  spirits, 
who  can  be  contented  with  no  man  that  will  not 
submit  to  be  governed  by  them;  sometimes  they 
are  intriguing  partisans  of  Great  Britain,  who,  de- 
voted to  the  advancement  of  her  views,  are  incensed 

1  The  quarrel  between  Adams  and  Hamilton  had  reached  such  a 
point  in  1800  that,  in  the  midst  of  the  Presidential  canvass,  Hamilton 
lost  his  self-control  and  prepared  this  famous  attack  on  Mr.  Adams, 
which  was  intended  for  distribution  among  a  few  leading  Federalists 
but  which  by  an  unfortunate  accident  fell  into  hostile  hands  and  was 
hurried  before  the  world  by  the  machinations  of  Burr.  It  was  cer- 
tainly a  very  destructive  pamphlet  to  the  Federalist  party,  and  no 
good  was  done  by  the  impotent  conclusion  of  advising  people  to  vote 
for  the  very  man  whom  the  writer  so  fiercely  assailed. 

309 


310  Alexander  Hamilton 

against  Mr.  Adams  for  the  independent  impartiality 
of  his  conduct. 

In  addition  to  a  full  share  of  the  obloquy  vented 
against  this  description  of  persons  collectively,  pe- 
culiar accusations  have  been  devised  to  swell  the 
catalogue  of  my  demerits.  Among  these,  the  re- 
sentment of  disappointed  ambition  forms  a  pro- 
minent feature.  It  is  pretended  that,  had  the 
President,  upon  the  demise  of  General  Washington, 
appointed  me  Commander-in-Chief ,  he  would  have 
been,  in  my  estimation,  all  that  is  wise,  and  good, 
and  great. 

It  is  necessary,  for  the  public  cause,  to  repel  these 
slanders,  by  stating  the  real  views  of  the  persons 
who  are  calumniated,  and  the  reasons  of  their 
conduct. 

In  executing  this  task,  with  particular  reference 
to  myself,  I  ought  to  premise  that  the  ground  upon 
which  I  stand  is  different  from  that  of  most  of  those 
who  are  confounded  with  me  in  pursuit  of  the  same 
plan.  While  our  object  is  common,  our  motives  are 
variously  dissimilar.  A  part,  well  affected  to  Mr. 
Adams,  have  no  other  wish  than  to  take  a  double 
chance  against  Mr.  Jefferson.  Another  part,  feeling 
a  diminution  of  confidence  in  him,  still  hope  that  the 
general  tenor  of  his  conduct  will  be  essentially  right. 
Few  go  as  far  in  their  objections  as  I  do.  Not  deny- 
ing to  Mr.  Adams  patriotism  and  integrity,  and  even 
talents  of  a  certain  kind,  I  should  be  deficient  in 
candor,  were  I  to  conceal  the  conviction  that  he  does 
not  possess  the  talents  adapted  to  the  administra- 
tion of  government,  and  that  there  are  great  and  in- 


John  Adams  311 

trinsic  defects  in  his  character,  which  unfit  him  for 
the  office  of  chief  magistrate. 

To  give  a  correct  idea  of  the  circumstances  which 
have  gradually  produced  this  conviction,  it  may  be 
useful  to  retrospect  to  an  early  period. 

I  was  one  of  that  numerous  class  who  had  con- 
ceived a  high  veneration  for  Mr.  Adams,  on  account 
of  the  part  he  acted  in  the  first  stages  of  our  revolu- 
tion. My  imagination  had  exalted  him  to  a  high 
eminence,  as  a  man  of  patriotic,  bold,  profound,  and 
comprehensive  mind.  But  in  the  progress  of  the 
war,  opinions  were  ascribed  to  him,  which  brought 
into  question,  with  me,  the  solidity  of  his  under- 
standing. 

He  was  represented  to  be  of  the  number  of  those 
who  favored  the  enlistment  of  our  troops  annually, 
or  for  short  periods,  rather  than  for  the  term  of  the 
war;  a  blind  and  infatuated  policy,  directly  contrary 
to  the  urgent  recommendation  of  General  Wash- 
ington, and  which  had  nearly  proved  the  ruin  of  our 
cause.  He  was  also  said  to  have  advocated  the 
project  of  appointing  yearly  a  new  commander  of 
the  army;  a  project  which,  in  any  service,  is  likely 
to  be  attended  with  more  evils  than  benefits;  but 
which  in  ours,  at  the  period  in  question,  was  chimer- 
ical, from  the  want  of  persons  qualified  to  succeed, 
and  pernicious,  from  the  peculiar  fitness  of  the 
officer  first  appointed,  to  strengthen,  by  personal  in- 
fluence, the  too  feeble  cords  which  bound  to  the 
service  an  ill-paid,  ill-clothed,  and  undisciplined 
soldiery. 

It  is  impossible  for  me  to  assert,  at  this  distant 


312  Alexander  Hamilton 

day,  that  these  suggestions  were  brought  home  to 
Mr.  Adams  in  such  a  manner  as  to  ascertain  their 
genuineness;  but  I  distinctly  remember  their  exist- 
ence, and  my  conclusion  from  them;  which  was, 
that,  if  true,  they  proved  this  gentleman  to  be  in- 
fected with  some  visionary  notions,  and  that  he  was 
far  less  able  in  the  practice,  than  in  the  theory,  of 
politics.  I  remember,  also,  that  they  had  the  effect 
of  inducing  me  to  qualify  the  admiration  which  I 
had  once  entertained  for  him,  and  to  reserve  for  op- 
portunities of  future  scrutiny,  a  definitive  opinion 
of  the  true  standard  of  his  character. 

In  this  disposition  I  was,  when,  just  before  the 
close  of  the  war,  I  became  a  member  of  Congress. 

The  situation  in  which  I  found  myself  there,  was 
far  from  being  inauspicious  to  a  favorable  estimate 
of  Mr.  Adams. 

Upon  my  first  going  into  Congress,  I  discovered 
symptoms  of  a  party  already  formed,  too  well  dis- 
posed to  subject  the  interests  of  the  United  States 
to  the  management  of  France.  Though  I  felt,  in 
common  with  those  who  had  participated  in  our 
revolution,  a  lively  sentiment  of  good  will  toward  a 
power  whose  co-operation,  however  it  was  and 
ought  to  have  been  dictated  by  its  own  interest,  had 
been  extremely  useful  to  us,  and  had  been  afforded 
in  a  liberal  and  handsome  manner ;  yet,  tenacious  of 
the  real  independence  of  our  country,  and  dreading 
the  preponderance  of  foreign  influence,  as  the  nat- 
ural disease  of  popular  government,  I  was  struck 
with  disgust  at  the  appearance,  in  the  very  cradle  of 
our  republic,  of  a  party  actuated  by  an  undue  com- 


John  Adams  313 

plaisance  to  a  foreign  power ;  and  I  resolved  at  once 
to  resist  this  bias  in  our  affairs — a  resolution  which 
has  been  the  chief  cause  of  the  persecution  I  have 
endured  in  the  subsequent  stages  of  my  political  life. 

Among  the  fruits  of  the  bias  I  have  mentioned, 
were  the  celebrated  instructions  to  our  commission- 
ers, for  treating  of  peace  with  Great  Britain;  which, 
not  only  as  to  final  measures,  but  also  as  to  pre- 
liminary and  intermediate  negotiations,  placed  them 
in  a  state  of  dependence  on  the  French  ministry, 
humiliating  to  themselves,  and  unsafe  for  the  inter- 
ests of  the  country.  This  was  the  more  exception- 
able, as  there  was  cause  to  suspect,  that  in  regard  to 
the  two  cardinal  points  of  the  fisheries  and  the  navi- 
gation of  the  Mississippi,  the  policy  of  the  cabinet  of 
Versailles  did  not  accord  with  the  wishes  of  the 
United  States. 

The  commissioners,  of  whom  Mr.  Adams  was  one, 
had  the  fortitude  to  break  through  the  fetters  which 
were  laid  upon  them  by  those  instructions;  and 
there  is  reason  to  believe  that,  by  doing  it,  they  both 
accelerated  the  peace  with  Great  Britain,  and  im- 
proved the  terms,  while  they  preserved  our  faith 
with  France. 

Yet  a  serious  attempt  was  made  to  obtain  from 
Congress  a  formal  censure  of  their  conduct.  The 
attempt  failed,  and  instead  of  censure,  the  praise 
was  bestowed  which  was  justly  due  to  the  accom- 
plishment of  a  treaty  advantageous  to  this  country, 
beyond  the  most  sanguine  expectation.  In  this  re- 
sult, my  efforts  were  heartily  united. 

The  principal  merit  of  the  negotiation  with  Great 


314  Alexander  Hamilton 

Britain,  in  some  quarters,  has  been  bestowed  upon 
Mr.  Adams;  but  it  is  certainly  the  right  of  Mr.  Jay, 
who  took  a  lead  in  the  several  steps  of  the  transac- 
tion, no  less  honorable  to  his  talents  than  to  his 
firmness.  The  merit,  nevertheless,  of  a  full  and 
decisive  co-operation,  is  justly  due  to  Mr.  Adams. 

It  will  readily  be  seen,  that  such  a  course  of  things 
was  calculated  to  impress  me  with  a  disposition 
friendly  to  Mr.  Adams.  I  certainly  felt  it,  and  gave 
him  much  of  my  consideration  and  esteem. 

But  this  did  not  hinder  me  from  making  careful 
observations  upon  his  several  communications,  and 
endeavoring  to  derive  from  them  an  accurate  idea 
of  his  talents  and  character.  This  scrutiny  en- 
hanced my  esteem  in  the  main  for  his  moral  quali- 
fications, but  lessened  my  respect  for  his  intellectual 
endowments.  I  then  adopted  an  opinion,  which  all 
my  subsequent  experience  has  confirmed,  that  he  is 
a  man  of  an  imagination  sublimated  and  eccentric; 
propitious  neither  to  the  regular  display  of  sound 
judgment,  nor  to  steady  perseverance  in  a  system- 
atic plan  of  conduct;  and  I  began  to  perceive  what 
has  been  since  too  manifest,  that  to  this  defect  are 
added  the  unfortunate  foibles  of  a  vanity  without 
bounds,  and  a  jealousy  capable  of  discoloring  every 
object. 

Strong  evidence  of  some  traits  of  this  character  is 
to  be  found  in  a  journal  of  Mr.  Adams,  which  was 
sent  by  the  then  Secretary  of  Foreign  Affairs  to 
Congress.  The  reading  of  this  journal  extremely 
embarrassed  his  friends,  especially  the  delegates  of 
Massachusetts,  who,  more  than  once,  interrupted  it, 


John  Adams  315 

and  at  last,  succeeded  in  putting  a  stop  to  it,  on  the 
suggestion  that  it  bore  the  marks  of  a  private  and 
confidential  paper,  which,  by  some  mistake,  had 
gotten  into  its  present  situation,  and  never  could 
have  been  designed  as  a  public  document  for  the 
inspection  of  Congress.  The  good  humor  of  that 
body  yielded  to  the  suggestion. 

The  particulars  of  this  journal  cannot  be  expected 
to  have  remained  in  my  memory — but  I  recollect 
one  which  may  serve  as  a  sample.  Being  among  the 
guests  invited  to  dine  with  the  Count  de  Vergennes, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  Mr.  Adams  thought  fit 
to  give  a  specimen  of  American  politeness,  by  con- 
ducting Madame  de  Vergennes  to  dinner;  on  the 
way,  she  was  pleased  to  make  retribution  in  the 
current  coin  of  French  politeness — by  saying  to  him, 
"Monsieur  Adams,  vous  £tes  le  Washington  de  nego- 
tiation." 1  Stating  the  incident,  he  makes  this  com- 
ment upon  it:  "These  people  have  a  very  pretty 
knack  of  paying  compliments."  He  might  have 
added,  they  have  also  a  very  dexterous  knack  of 
disguising  a  sarcasm. 

The  opinion,  however,  which  I  have  avowed,  did 
not  prevent  my  entering  cordially  into  the  plan  of 
supporting  Mr.  Adams  for  the  office  of  Vice-Presi- 
dent,  under  the  new  Constitution.  I  still  thought 
that  he  had  high  claims  upon  the  public  gratitude, 
and  possessed  a  substantial  worth  of  character, 
which  might  atone  for  some  great  defects.  In  addi- 
tion to  this,  it  was  well  known  that  he  was  a  favorite 
of  New  England,  and  it  was  obvious  that  his  union 

1  Mr.  Adams,  you  are  the  Washington  of  negotiation. 


316  Alexander  Hamilton 

with  General  Washington  would  tend  to  give  the 
government,  in  its  outset,  all  the  strength  which  it 
could  derive  from  the  character  of  the  two  principal 
magistrates. 

But  it  was  deemed  an  essential  point  of  caution  to 
take  care,  that  accident,  or  an  intrigue  of  the  op- 
posers  of  the  government,  should  not  raise  Mr. 
Adams,  instead  of  General  Washington,  to  the  first 
place.  This,  every  friend  of  the  government  would 
have  considered  a  disastrous  event;  as  well  because 
it  would  have  displayed  a  capricious  operation  of  the 
system,  in  elevating  to  the  first  station  a  man  in- 
tended for  the  second;  as  because  it  was  conceived 
that  the  incomparably  superior  weight  and  tran- 
scendent popularity  of  General  Washington  rendered 
his  presence  at  the  head  of  the  government,  in  its 
first  organization,  a  matter  of  primary  and  indis- 
pensable importance.  It  was  therefore  agreed  that 
a  few  votes  should  be  diverted  from  Mr.  Adams  to 
other  persons,  so  as  to  insure  to  General  Washington 
a  plurality. 

Great  was  my  astonishment,  and  equally  great 
my  regret,  when,  afterwards,  I  learned  from  persons 
of  unquestionable  veracity,  that  Mr.  Adams  had 
complained  of  unfair  treatment,  in  not  having  been 
permitted  to  take  an  equal  chance  with  General 
Washington,  by  leaving  the  votes  to  an  uninflu- 
enced current. 

The  extreme  egotism  of  the  temper,  which  could 
blind  a  man  to  considerations  so  obvious  as  those 
that  had  recommended  the  course  pursued,  cannot 
be  enforced  by  my  comment.  It  exceeded  all  that 


John  Adams  317 

I  had  imagined,  and  showed,  in  too  strong  a  light, 
that  the  vanity  which  I  have  ascribed  to  him  existed 
to  a  degree  that  rendered  it  more  than  a  harmless 
foible. 

Mr.  Adams  was  elected  Vice- President.  His  pub- 
lic conduct,  in  that  station,  was  satisfactory  to  the 
friends  of  the  government,  though  they  were  now 
and  then  alarmed  by  appearances  of  some  eccentric 
tendencies. 

It  is,  in  particular,  a  tribute  due  from  me  to  ac- 
knowledge that  Mr.  Adams,  being,  in  quality  of 
Vice-President,  ex  ofjicio  one  of  the  trustees  of  the 
sinking  fund,  I  experienced  from  him  the  most  com- 
plete support,  which  was  the  more  gratifying  to  me, 
as  I  had  to  struggle  against  the  systematic  opposi- 
tion of  Mr.  Jefferson,  seconded  occasionally  by  Mr. 
Randolph.  Though  it  would  be  an  ill  compliment 
to  Mr.  Adams  not  to  presume  that  the  support  which 
he  gave  me  was  the  dictate  of  his  sense  of  the  public 
interest;  yet,  so  cordial  and  useful  a  co-operation, 
at  a  moment  when  I  was  assailed  with  all  the  weap- 
ons of  party  rancor,  won  from  me  an  unfeigned 
return  of  the  most  amicable  sentiments. 

I  lost  no  opportunity  of  combating  the  prejudices 
industriously  propagated  against  him  by  his  political 
enemies;  and,  for  a  considerable  time,  went  quite 
as  far  as  candor  would  permit,  to  extenuate  the  fail- 
ings which  more  and  more  alarmed  and  dissatisfied 
his  friends. 

The  epoch  at  length  arrived  when  the  retreat  of 
General  Washington  made  it  necessary  to  fix  upon  a 
successor.  By  this  time,  men  of  principal  influence 


318  Alexander  Hamilton 

in  the  Federal  party,  whose  situation  had  led  them 
to  an  intimate  acquaintance  with  Mr.  Adams'  char- 
acter, began  to  entertain  serious  doubts  about  his 
fitness  for  the  station ;  yet,  his  pretensions,  in  several 
respects,  were  so  strong  that,  after  mature  reflection, 
they  thought  it  better  to  indulge  their  hopes  than  to 
listen  to  their  fears.  To  this  conclusion,  the  desire 
of  preserving  harmony  in  the  Federal  party,  was  a 
weighty  inducement.  Accordingly,  it  was  deter- 
mined to  support  Mr.  Adams  for  the  chief  magistracy. 
It  was  evidently  of  much  consequence  to  endeavor 
to  have  an  eminent  Federalist  Vice-President.  Mr. 
Thomas  Pinckney,  of  South  Carolina,  was  selected 
for  this  purpose.  This  gentleman,  too  little  known 
in  the  North,  had  been  all  his  lifetime  distinguished 
in  the  South,  for  the  mildness  and  amiableness  of  his 
manners,  the  rectitude  and  purity  of  his  morals,  and 
the  soundness  and  correctness  of  his  understanding, 
accompanied  by  an  habitual  discretion  and  self-com- 
mand, which  has  often  occasioned  a  parallel  between 
him  and  the  venerated  Washington.  In  addition  to 
these  recommendations,  he  had  been,  during  a  criti- 
cal period,  our  Minister  at  the  court  of  London,  and 
recently  Envoy  Extraordinary  to  the  court  of  Spain ; 
and  in  both  these  trusts  he  had  acquitted  himself  to 
the  satisfaction  of  all  parties.  With  the  court  of 
Spain  he  had  effected  a  treaty  which  removed  all 
the  thorny  subjects  of  contention  that  had  so  long 
threatened  the  peace  of  the  two  countries,  and  stip- 
ulated for  the  United  States,  on  their  southern 
frontier,  and  on  the  Mississippi,  advantages  of  real 
magnitude  and  importance. 


John  Adams  319 

Well-informed  men  knew  that  the  event  of  the 
election  was  extremely  problematical;  and  while 
the  friends  of  Mr.  Jefferson  predicted  his  success 
with  sanguine  confidence,  his  opposers  feared  that 
he  might  have  at  least  an  equal  chance  with  any 
Federal  candidate. 

To  exclude  him  was  deemed,  by  the  Federalists,  a 
primary  object.  Those  of  them  who  possessed  the 
best  means  of  judging  were  of  opinion  that  it  was  far 
less  important  whether  Mr.  Adams  or  Mr.  Pinckney 
was  the  successful  candidate,  than  that  Mr.  Jefferson 
should  not  be  the  person ;  and  on  this  principle,  it 
was  understood  among  them,  that  the  two  first- 
mentioned  gentlemen  should  be  equally  supported, 
leaving  to  casual  accessions  of  votes  in  favor  of  the 
one  or  the  other  to  turn  the  scale  between  them. 

In  this  plan  I  united  with  good  faith,  in  the  resolu- 
tion, to  which  I  scrupulously  adhered,  of  giving  to 
each  candidate  an  equal  support.  This  was  done 
wherever  my  influence  extended,  as  was  more  par- 
ticularly manifested  in  the  State  of  New  York, 
where  all  the  electors  were  my  warm  personal  or 
political  friends,  and  all  gave  a  concurrent  vote  for 
the  two  Federal  candidates. 

It  is  true  that  a  faithful  execution  of  this  plan 
would  have  given  Mr.  Pinckney  a  somewhat  better 
chance  than  Mr.  Adams;  nor  shall  it  be  concealed, 
that  an  issue  favorable  to  the  former  would  not  have 
been  disagreeable  to  me ;  as  indeed  I  declared  at  the 
time,  in  the  circles  of  my  confidential  friends.1  My 

1 1  appeal  particularly  to  Lt.-Governor  Van  Rensselaer  and  R.  Troup, 
Esq. 


320  Alexander  Hamilton 

position  was,  that  if  the  chance  should  decide  in 
favor  of  Mr.  Pinckney,  it  probably  would  not  be  a 
misfortune;  since  he,  to  every  essential  qualifica- 
tion for  the  office,  added  a  temper  far  more  discreet 
and  conciliatory  than  that  of  Mr.  Adams. 

This  disposition,  on  my  part,  at  that  juncture, 
proves,  at  least,  that  my  disapprobation  of  Mr. 
Adams  has  not  originated  in  the  disappointment,  to 
which  it  has  been  uncandidly  attributed.  No  pri- 
vate motive  could  then  have  entered  into  it.  Not 
the  least  collision  or  misunderstanding  had  ever  hap- 
pened between  that  gentleman  and  myself — on  the 
contrary,  as  I  have  already  stated,  I  had  reason  in- 
dividually to  be  pleased  with  him. 

No:  The  considerations  which  had  reconciled  me 
to  the  success  of  Mr.  Pinckney,  were  of  a  nature  ex- 
clusively public.  They  resulted  from  the  disgusting 
egotism,  the  distempered  jealousy,  and  the  ungov- 
ernable indiscretion  of  Mr.  Adams'  temper,  joined  to 
some  doubts  of  the  correctness  of  his  maxims  of  ad- 
ministration. Though  in  matters  of  finance  he  had 
acted  with  the  Federal  party ;  yet  he  had,  more  than 
once,  broached  theories  at  variance  with  his  prac- 
tice. And  in  conversation  he  repeatedly  made  ex- 
cursions into  the  field  of  foreign  politics,  which 
alarmed  the  friends  of  the  prevailing  system. 

The  plan  of  giving  equal  support  to  the  two  Fed- 
eral candidates,  was  not  pursued.  Personal  attach- 
ment for  Mr.  Adams,  especially  in  the  New  England 
States,  caused  a  number  of  the  votes  to  be  withheld 
from  Mr.  Pinckney,  and  thrown  away.  The  result 
was,  that  Mr.  Adams  was  elected  President  by  a 


John  Adams  321 

majority  of  two  votes,  and  Mr.  Jefferson  Vice- Presi- 
dent. 

This  issue  demonstrated  the  wisdom  of  the  plan 
which  had  been  abandoned,  and  how  greatly,  in  de- 
parting from  it,  the  cause  had  been  sacrificed  to  the 
man.  But  for  a  sort  of  miracle,  the  departure  would 
have  made  Mr.  Jefferson  President.  In  each  of  the 
States  of  Pennsylvania,  Virginia,  and  North  Caro- 
lina, Mr.  Adams  had  one  vote.  In  the  two  latter 
States,  the  one  vote  was  as  much  against  the  stream 
of  popular  prejudice,  as  it  was  against  the  opinions 
of  the  other  electors.  The  firmness  of  the  individuals 
who  separated  from  their  colleagues,  was  so  extra- 
ordinary as  to  have  been  contrary  to  all  probable 
calculation.  Had  only  one  of  them  thrown  his  vote 
into  the  other  scale,  there  would  have  been  an  equal- 
ity, and  no  election.  Had  two  done  it,  the  choice 
would  have  fallen  upon  Mr.  Jefferson. 

No  one,  sincere  in  the  opinion  that  this  gentleman 
was  an  ineligible  and  dangerous  candidate,  can  hesi- 
tate in  pronouncing,  that  in  dropping  Mr.  Pinckney, 
too  much  was  put  at  hazard;  and  that  those  who 
promoted  the  other  course,  acted  with  prudence  and 
propriety. 

It  is  a  fact,  which  ought  not  to  be  forgotten,  that 
Mr.  Adams,  who  had  evinced  discontent,  because  he 
had  not  been  permitted  to  take  an  equal  chance  with 
General  Washington,  was  enraged  with  all  those  who 
had  thought  that  Mr.  Pinckney  ought  to  have  had 
an  equal  chance  with  him.  But  in  this  there  is  per- 
fect consistency.  The  same  turn  of  temper  is  the 
solution  of  the  displeasure  in  both  cases. 


VOL.  VII. — 21 


322  Alexander  Hamilton 

It  is  to  this  circumstance  of  the  equal  support  of 
Mr.  Pinckney,  that  we  are  in  a  great  measure  to  refer 
the  serious  schism  which  has  since  grown  up  in  the 
Federal  party. 

Mr.  Adams  never  could  forgive  the  men  who  had 
been  engaged  in  the  plan ;  though  it  embraced  some 
of  his  most  partial  admirers.  He  has  discovered 
bitter  animosity  against  several  of  them.  Against 
me,  his  rage  has  been  so  vehement  as  to  have  caused 
him,  more  than  once,  to  forget  the  decorum  which,  in 
his  situation,  ought  to  have  been  an  inviolable  law. 
It  will  not  appear  an  exaggeration  to  those  who  have 
studied  his  character,  to  suppose  that  he  is  capable 
of  being  alienated  from  a  system  to  which  he  has 
been  attached,  because  it  is  upheld  by  men  whom 
he  hates.  How  large  a  share  this  may  have  had  in 
some  recent  aberrations,  cannot  easily  be  determined. 

Occurrences  which  have  either  happened  or  come 
to  light  since  the  election  of  Mr.  Adams  to  the 
Presidency,  confirming  my  unfavorable  forebodings 
of  his  character,  have  given  new  and  decisive  energy, 
in  my  mind,  to  the  sentiment  of  his  unfitness  for  the 
station. 

The  letter  which  has  just  appeared  in  the  public 
prints,  written  by  him,  while  Vice- President,  to 
Tench  Coxe,  is  of  itself  conclusive  evidence  of  the 
justness  of  this  sentiment.  It  is  impossible  to  speak 
of  this  transaction  in  terms  suited  to  its  nature,  with- 
out losing  sight  that  Mr.  Adams  is  President  of  the 
United  States. 

This  letter  avows  the  suspicion,  that  the  appoint- 
ment of  Mr.  Pinckney  to  the  court  of  London,  had 


John  Adams  323 

been  procured  or  promoted  by  British  influence. 
And  considering  the  parade  with  which  the  story  of 
the  Duke  of  Leeds  is  told,  it  is  fair  to  consider  that 
circumstance  as  the  principal,  if  not  the  sole,  ground 
of  the  odious  and  degrading  suspicion. 

Let  any  man  of  candor  or  knowledge  of  the  world, 
pronounce  on  this  species  of  evidence. 

It  happened  unfortunately  for  the  Pinckneys,  that, 
while  boys,  and  long  before  our  revolution,  they 
went  to  school  with  a  British  duke,  who  was  after- 
wards Minister  of  the  British  Government  for  the 
Foreign  Department.  This  indiscreet  duke,  perhaps 
for  no  better  reason  than  the  desire  of  saying  some- 
thing to  a  parting  American  Minister,  and  the  want 
of  something  better  to  say,  divulges  to  him  the  dan- 
gerous secret,  that  the  two  Pinckneys  had  been  his 
classmates,  and  goes  the  alarming  length  of  making 
inquiry  about  their  health.  From  this,  it  is  saga- 
ciously inferred,  that  these  gentlemen  have  "many 
powerful  old  friends  in  England";  and  from  this 
again,  that  the  Duke  of  Leeds  (of  course  of  the  num- 
ber of  these  old  friends)  had  procured  by  intrigue 
the  appointment  of  one  of  his  classmates  to  the 
court  of  London;  or,  in  the  language  of  the  letter, 
that  much  British  influence  had  been  exerted  in  the 
appointment. 

In  the  school  of  jealousy,  stimulated  by  ill-will, 
logic  like  this  may  pass  for  substantial;  but  what  is 
it  in  the  school  of  reason  and  justice? 

Though  this  contaminating  connection  of  the 
Pinckneys  with  the  Duke  of  Leeds,  in  their  juvenile 
years,  did  not  hinder  them  from  fighting  for  the 


324  Alexander  Hamilton 

independence  of  their  native  country  throughout  our 
revolution,  yet,  the  supposition  is,  that  the  instant 
the  war  was  terminated,  it  transformed  them  from 
the  soldiers  of  liberty  into  the  tools  of  the  British 
monarchy. 

But  the  hostility  of  the  Pinckneys  to  Mr.  Adams, 
evidenced  by  their  "long  intrigue"  against  him,  of 
which  he  speaks  in  the  letter,  is  perhaps  intended  as 
a  still  stronger  proof  of  their  devotion  to  Great 
Britain.  The  argument  may  be  thus  understood: 
Mr.  Adams  is  the  bulwark  of  his  country  against 
foreign  influence.  The  batteries  of  every  foreign 
power,  desirous  of  acquiring  an  ascendant  in  our 
affairs,  are  of  consequence  always  open  against  him ; 
and  the  presumption,  therefore,  must  be,  that  every 
citizen  who  is  his  enemy,  is  the  confederate  of  one  or 
another  of  those  foreign  powers. 

Let  us,  without  contesting  this  argument  of  self- 
love,  examine  into  the  facts  upon  which  its  applica- 
bility must  depend. 

The  evidence  of  the  "long  intrigue"  seems  to  be, 
that  the  family  of  the  Pinckneys  contributed  to 
limit  the  duration  of  Mr.  Adams'  commission  to  the 
court  of  London  to  the  term  of  three  years,  in  order 
to  make  way  for  some  of  themselves  to  succeed  him. 
This,  it  must  be  confessed,  was  a  long-sighted  calcu- 
lation in  a  government  like  ours. 

A  summary  of  the  transaction  will  be  the  best 
comment  on  the  inference  which  has  been  drawn. 

The  resolution  of  Congress  by  which  Mr.  Adams' 
commission  was  limited,  was  a  general  one,  applying 
to  the  commissions  of  all  ministers  to  foreign  courts. 


John  Adams  325 

When  it  was  proposed  and  adopted,  it  is  certain  that 
neither  of  the  two  Pinckneys  was  a  member  of  Con- 
gress; and  it  is  believed  that  they  were  both  at 
Charleston, .  in  South  Carolina,  their  usual  place  of 
abode,  more  than  eight  hundred  miles  distant  from 
the  seat  of  government. 

But  they  had,  it  seems,  a  cousin,  Mr.  Charles 
Pinckney,  who  was  in  Congress;  and  this  cousin  it 
was  who  moved  the  restrictive  resolution.  Let  us 
inquire  who  seconded  and  who  voted  for  it. 

It  was  seconded  by  Mr.  Ho  well,  a  member  from 
Rhode  Island,  the  very  person  who  nominated  Mr. 
Adams  as  Minister  to  Great  Britain,  and  was  voted 
for  by  the  four  Eastern  States,  with  New  York,  New 
Jersey,  Maryland,  and  South  Carolina.  Mr.  Gerry, 
always  a  zealous  partisan  of  Mr.  Adams,  was  among 
the  supporters  of  the  resolution.  To  make  out  this 
to  be  a  machination  of  the  two  Pinckneys,  many 
things  must  be  affirmed:  first,  that  their  cousin 
Charles  is  always  subservient  to  their  views  (which 
would  equally  prove  that  they  have  long  been,  and 
still  are,  opposers  of  the  Federal  administration); 
second,  that  this  cunning  wight  had  been  able  to 
draw  the  four  Eastern  States  into  his  plot,  as  well  as 
New  York,  New  Jersey,  Maryland,  and  South  Caro- 
lina; third,  that  the  Pinckneys  could  foresee,  at  the 
distance  of  three  years,  the  existence  of  a  state  of 
things  which  would  enable  them  to  reap  the  fruit 
of  their  contrivance. 

Would  not  the  circumstances  better  warrant  the 
suspicion  that  the  resolution  was  a  contrivance  of  the 
friends  of  Mr.  Adams  to  facilitate  in  some  way  his 


3 26  Alexander  Hamilton 

election,  and  that  Mr.  Pinckney  was  their  coadjutor, 
rather  than  their  prompter? 

But  the  truth  most  probably  is,  that  the  measure 
was  a  mere  precaution  to  bring  under  frequent  re- 
view the  propriety  of  continuing  a  minister  at  a 
particular  court,  and  to  facilitate  the  removal  of  a 
disagreeable  one,  without  the  harshness  of  formally 
displacing  him.  In  a  policy  of  this  sort,  the  cautious 
maxims  of  New  England  would  very  naturally  have 
taken  a  lead. 

Thus,  in  the  very  grounds  of  the  suspicion  as  far 
as  they  appear,  we  find  its  refutation.  The  complete 
futility  of  it  will  now  be  illustrated  by  additional 
circumstances. 

It  is  a  fact,  that  the  rigor  with  which  the  war  was 
prosecuted  by  the  British  armies  in  our  Southern 
quarter,  had  produced  among  the  friends  of  our 
revolution  there,  more  animosity  against  the  British 
Government,  than  in  the  other  parts  of  the  United 
States;  and  it  is  a  matter  of  notoriety  in  the  same 
quarter,  that  this  disposition  was  conspicuous  among 
the  Pinckney s  and  their  connections.  It  may  be 
added,  that  they  were  likewise  known  to  have  been 
attached  to  the  French  Revolution,  and  to  have  con- 
tinued so,  till  long  after  the  appointment  of  Mr. 
Thomas  Pinckney  to  the  court  of  London. 

These  propensities  of  the  gentlemen  were  certainly 
not  such  as  to  make  them  favorites  of  Great  Britain, 
or  the  appointment  of  one  of  them  to  that  court  an 
object  of  particular  solicitude. 

As  far  as  appeared  at  the  time,  the  idea  of  nom- 
inating Mr.  Thomas  Pinckney,  originated  with  the 


John  Adams  327 

then  President  himself;  but  whatever  may  have 
been  its  source,  it  is  certain  that  it  met  the  approba- 
tion of  the  whole  administration,  Mr.  Jefferson  in- 
cluded. This  fact  alone,  will  go  far  to  refute  the 
surmise  of  a  British  agency  in  the  appointment. 

Supposing  that,  contrary  to  all  probability,  Great 
Britain  had  really  taken  some  unaccountable  fancy 
for  Mr.  Pinckney,  upon  whom  was  her  influence 
exerted  ? 

Had  the  virtuous,  circumspect  Washington  been 
ensnared  in  her  insidious  toils?  Had  she  found 
means  for  once  to  soften  the  stern,  inflexible  hostility 
of  Jefferson?  Had  Randolph  been  won  by  her 
meretricious  caresses?  Had  Knox,  the  uniform 
friend  of  Mr.  Adams,  been  corrupted  by  her  seducing 
wiles  ?  Or  was  it  all  the  dark  work  of  the  alien  Sec- 
retary of  the  Treasury?  Was  it  this  arch  juggler, 
who  debauched  the  principles,  or  transformed  the 
prejudices  of  Mr.  Pinckney;  who  persuaded  the 
British  Government  to  adopt  him  as  a  pliant  instru- 
ment; who  artfully  induced  the  President  to  pro- 
pose him  as  of  his  own  selection;  who  lulled  the 
zealous  vigilance  of  Jefferson  and  Randolph,  and 
surprised  the  unsuspecting  frankness  of  Knox? 

But  when  the  thing  had  been  accomplished,  no 
matter  by  what  means,  it  was  surely  to  have  been 
expected  that  the  man  of  its  choice  would  have  been 
treated  at  the  court  of  London  with  distinguished 
regard,  and  that  his  conduct  towards  that  court 
would  have  been  marked,  if  not  by  some  improper 
compliances,  at  least  by  some  displays  of  extra- 
ordinary complaisance. 


328  Alexander  Hamilton 

Yet,  strange  as  it  may  appear,  upon  Mr.  Adams' 
hypothesis,  it  might  be  proved,  if  requisite,  that 
neither  the  one  nor  the  other  took  place.  It  might 
be  proved  that,  far  from  Mr.  Pinckney's  having  ex- 
perienced any  flattering  distinctions,  incidents  not 
pleasant  to  his  feelings  had  occurred,  and  that  in  the 
discharge  of  his  official  functions  he  had  advanced 
pretensions  in  favor  of  the  United  States,  from 
which,  with  the  approbation  of  the  then  Secretary  of 
State,  Mr.  Jefferson,  he  was  instructed  to  desist. 

What  will  Mr.  Adams  or  his  friends  reply  to  all 
these  facts?  How  will  he  be  excused  for  indulging 
and  declaring,  on  grounds  so  frivolous,  a  suspicion  so 
derogatory  of  a  man  so  meritorious — of  a  man  who 
has  acted  in  a  manner  so  unexceptional? 

But  a  more  serious  question  remains:  How  will 
Mr.  Adams  answer  to  the  government  and  to  his 
country,  for  having  thus  wantonly  given  the  sanc- 
tion of  his  opinion  to  the  worst  of  the  aspersions 
which  the  enemies  of  the  administration  have  im- 
pudently thrown  upon  it?  Can  we  be  surprised  that 
such  a  torrent  of  slander  was  poured  out  against  it, 
when  a  man,  the  second  in  official  rank,  the  second 
in  the  favor  of  the  friends  of  the  government,  stooped 
to  become  himself  one  of  its  calumniators?  It  is 
peculiarly  unlucky  for  Mr.  Adams  in  this  affair,  that 
he  is  known  to  have  desired,  at  the  time,  the  ap- 
pointment which  was  given  to  Mr.  Pinckney.  The 
President  declined  the  measure,  thinking  that  it  was 
compatible  neither  with  the  spirit  of  the  Constitution 
nor  with  the  dignity  of  the  government,  to  designate 
the  Vice- President  to  such  a  station. 


John  Adams  329 

This  letter,  better  than  volumes,  develops  the 
true,  the  unfortunate  character  of  Mr.  Adams. 

The  remaining  causes  of  dissatisfaction  with  him, 
respect  his  conduct  in  the  office  of  President,  which, 
in  my  opinion,  has  been  a  heterogeneous  compound 
of  right  and  wrong,  of  wisdom  and  error. 

The  outset  was  distinguished  by  a  speech  which  his 
friends  lamented  as  temporizing.  It  had  the  air  of  a 
lure  for  the  favor  of  his  opponents  at  the  expense  of 
his  sincerity ;  but  being  of  an  equivocal  complexion, 
to  which  no  precise  design  can  be  annexed,  it  is 
barely  mentioned  as  a  circumstance,  which,  in  con- 
junction with  others  of  a  more  positive  tint,  may 
serve  to  explain  character. 

It  is  in  regard  to  our  foreign  relations,  that  the 
public  measures  of  Mr.  Adams  first  attract  criticism. 

It  will  be  recollected  that  General  Pinckney,  the 
brother  of  Thomas,  and  the  gentleman  now  sup- 
ported together  with  Mr.  Adams,  had  been  deputed 
by  President  Washington  as  successor  to  Mr.  Mon- 
roe, and  had  been  refused  to  be  received  by  the 
French  Government  in  his  quality  of  Minister 
Plenipotentiary . 

This,  among  those  of  the  well-informed,  who  felt  a 
just  sensibility  for  the  honor  of  their  country,  ex- 
cited much  disgust  and  resentment.  But  the  oppo- 
sition party,  ever  too  ready  to  justify  the  French 
Government  at  the  expense  of  their  own,  vindicated 
or  apologized  for  the  ill-treatment:  and  the  mass  of 
the  community,  though  displeased  with  it,  did  not 
appear  to  feel  the  full  force  of  the  indignity. 

As  a  final  effort  for  accommodation,  and  as  a 


33°  Alexander  Hamilton 

means,  in  case  of  failure,  of  enlightening  and  com- 
bining public  opinion,  it  was  resolved  to  make  an- 
other, and  a  more  solemn,  experiment,  in  the  form  of 
a  commission  of  three. 

This  measure  (with  some  objections  to  the  detail) 
was  approved  by  all  parties;  by  the  anti- Federalists, 
because  they  thought  no  evil  so  great  as  the  rupture 
with  France;  by  the  Federalists,  because  it  was 
their  system  to  avoid  war  with  every  power,  if  it 
could  be  done  without  the  sacrifice  of  essential  in- 
terests or  absolute  humiliation. 

Even  such  of  them  as  conceived  that  the  insults 
of  the  French  Government  and  the  manifestation  of 
its  ill-will  had  already  gone  far  enough  to  call  for 
measures  of  vigor,  perceiving  that  the  nation  was  not 
generally  penetrated  with  the  same  conviction,  and 
would  not  support  with  zeal  measures  of  that  nature, 
unless  their  necessity  was  rendered  still  more  appar- 
ent, acquiesced  in  the  expediency  of  another  mission. 
They  hoped  that  it  would  serve  either  to  compose 
the  differences  which  existed,  or  to  make  the  neces- 
sity of  resistance  to  the  violence  of  France  palpable 
to  every  good  citizen. 

The  expediency  of  the  step  was  suggested  to  Mr. 
Adams,  through  a  Federal  channel,  a  considerable 
time  before  he  determined  to  take  it.  He  hesitated 
whether  it  could  be  done  after  the  rejection  of  Gen- 
eral Pinckney,  without  national  debasement.  The 
doubt  was  an  honorable  one ;  it  was  afterwards  very 
properly  surrendered  to  the  cogent  reasons  which 
pleaded  for  a  further  experiment. 

The  event  of  this  experiment  is  fresh  in  our  recol- 


John  Adams  331 

lection.  Our  envoys,  like  our  minister  were  re- 
jected. Tribute  was  demanded  as  a  preliminary  to 
negotiation.  To  their  immortal  honor,  though 
France  at  the  time  was  proudly  triumphant,  they 
repelled  the  disgraceful  pretension.  Americans  will 
never  forget  that  General  Pinckney  was  a  member, 
and  an  efficient  member,  of  this  commission. 

This  conduct  of  the  French  Government,  in  which 
it  is  difficult  to  say,  whether  despotic  insolence  or 
unblushing  corruption  was  most  prominent,  electri- 
fied the  American  people  with  a  becoming  indigna- 
tion. In  vain  the  partisans  of  France  attempted  to 
extenuate.  The  public  voice  was  distinct  and  audible. 
The  nation,  disdaining  so  foul  an  overture,  was  ready 
to  encounter  the  worst  consequences  of  resistance. 

Without  imitating  the  flatterers  of  Mr.  Adams, 
who,  in  derogation  from  the  intrinsic  force  of  circum- 
stances, and  from  the  magnanimity  of  the  nation, 
ascribe  to  him  the  whole  merit  of  producing  the 
spirit  which  appeared  in  the  community,  it  shall  with 
cheerfulness  be  acknowledged  that  he  took  upon  the 
occasion  a  manly  and  courageous  lead — that  he  did 
all  in  his  power  to  rouse  the  pride  of  the  nation — to 
inspire  it  with  a  just  sense  of  the  injuries  and  out- 
rages which  it  had  experienced,  and  to  dispose  it  to 
a  firm  and  magnanimous  resistance;  and  that  his 
efforts  contributed  materially  to  that  end. 

The  friends  of  the  government  were  not  agreed 
as  to  the  ulterior  measures.  Some  were  for  immedi- 
ate and  unqualified  war;  others  for  a  more  miti- 
gated course ;  the  dissolution  of  treaties,  preparation 
of  force  by  land  and  sea,  partial  hostilities  of  a 


332  Alexander  Hamilton 

defensive  tendency;  leaving  to  France  the  option 
of  seeking  accommodation,  or  proceeding  to  open 
war.  The  latter  course  prevailed. 

Though  not  as  bold  and  energetic  as  the  other,  yet, 
considering  the  prosperous  state  of  French  affairs 
when  it  was  adopted,  and  how  many  nations  had 
been  appalled  and  prostrated  by  the  French  power, 
the  conduct  pursued  bore  sufficiently  the  marks  of 
courage  and  elevation  to  raise  the  national  character 
to  an  exalted  height  throughout  Europe. 

Much  is  it  to  be  deplored  that  we  should  have  been 
precipitated  from  this  proud  eminence  without  neces- 
sity, without  temptation. 

The  latter  conduct  of  the  President  forms  a  pain- 
ful contrast  to  his  commencement.  Its  effects  have 
been  directly  the  reverse.  It  has  sunk  the  tone  of 
the  public  mind — it  has  impaired  the  confidence 
of  the  friends  of  the  government  in  the  Executive 
Chief — it  has  distracted  public  opinion — it  has  un- 
nerved the  public  councils — it  has  sown  the  seeds  of 
discord  at  home,  and  lowered  the  reputation  of  the 
government  abroad.  The  circumstances  which  pre- 
ceded, aggravate  the  disagreeableness  of  the  results. 
They  prove  that  the  injudicious  things  which  have 
been  enacted,  were  not  the  effects  of  any  regular 
plan,  but  the  fortuitous  emanations  of  momentary 
impulses. 

The  session,  which  ensued  the  promulgation  of  the 
dispatches  of  our  commissioners,  was  about  to  com- 
mence. Mr.  Adams  arrived  at  Philadelphia  from  his 
seat  at  Quincy.  The  tone  of  his  mind  seemed  to 
have  been  raised,  rather  than  depressed. 


John  Adams  333 

It  was  suggested  to  him  that  it  might  be  expedi- 
ent to  insert  in  his  speech  to  Congress,  a  sentiment 
of  this  import:  That  after  the  repeatedly  rejected 
advances  of  this  country,  its  dignity  required  that 
it  should  be  left  with  France  in  future  to  make  the 
first  overture;  that  if,  desirous  of  reconciliation,  she 
should  evince  the  disposition  by  sending  a  minister 
to  this  government,  he  would  be  received  with  the 
respect  due  to  his  character,  and  treated  with  in  the 
frankness  of  a  sincere  desire  of  accommodation. 

The  suggestion  was  received  in  a  manner  both  in- 
dignant and  intemperate. 

Mr.  Adams  declared,  as  a  sentiment  which  he  had 
adopted  on  mature  reflection :  That  if  France  should 
send  a  minister  to-morrow,  he  would  order  him  back  the 
day  after. 

So  imprudent  an  idea  was  easily  refuted.  Little 
argument  was  requisite  to  show  that,  by  a  similar 
system  of  retaliation,  when  one  government  in  a  par- 
ticular instance  had  refused  the  envoy  of  another, 
nations  might  entail  upon  each  other  perpetual  hos- 
tility, mutually  barring  the  avenues  of  explanation. 

In  less  than  forty-eight  hours  from  this  extra- 
ordinary sally,  the  mind  of  Mr.  Adams  underwent  a 
total  revolution;  he  resolved  not  only  to  insert  in 
his  speech  the  sentiment  which  had  been  proposed 
to  him,  but  to  go  farther,  and  to  declare,  that  if 
France  would  give  explicit  assurances  of  receiving 
a  minister  from  this  country,  with  due  respect,  he 
would  send  one. 

In  vain  was  this  extension  of  the  sentiment  op- 
posed by  all  his  ministers,  as  being  equally  incom- 


334  Alexander  Hamilton 

patible  with  good  policy,  and  with  the  dignity  of  the 
nation;  he  obstinately  persisted,  and  the  pernicious 
declaration  was  introduced. 

I  call  it  pernicious,  because  it  was  the  groundwork 
of  the  false  steps  which  have  succeeded. 

The  declaration  recommended  to  the  President  was 
a  prudent  one. 

The  measures  of  Congress,  by  their  mitigated  form, 
showed  that  an  eye  had  been  still  kept  upon  pacifica- 
tion. A  numerous  party  were  averse  from  war  with 
France  at  any  rate.  In  the  rest  of  the  community, 
a  strong  preference  of  honorable  accommodation  to 
final  rupture  was  discernible,  even  amidst  the  ef- 
fusions of  resentment. 

The  charges  which  we  had  exhibited  in  the  face  of 
the  world  against  the  French  Government,  were  of 
a  high  and  disgraceful  complexion;  they  had  been 
urged  with  much  point  and  emphasis. 

To  give  an  opening  to  France  to  make  conciliatory 
propositions,  some  salve  for  her  pride  was  necessary. 
It  was  also  necessary  she  should  be  assured  that  she 
would  not  expose  herself  to  an  affront  by  a  refusal  to 
receive  the  agent  whom  she  might  employ  for  that 
purpose.  The  declaration  proposed  fulfilled  both 
objects. 

It  was  likely  to  have  another  important  advan- 
tage. It  would  be  a  new  proof  to  the  American 
people  of  the  moderate  and  pacific  temper  of  their 
government;  which  would  tend  to  preserve  their 
confidence,  and  to  dispose  them  more  and  more  to 
meet  inevitable  extremities  with  fortitude  and  with- 
out murmurs. 


John  Adams  335 

But  the  supplement  to  the  declaration  was  a 
blamable  excess.  It  was  more  than  sufficient  for  the 
ends  to  be  answered.  It  waived  the  point  of  honor, 
which,  after  two  rejections  of  our  ministers,  required 
that  the  next  mission  between  the  two  countries 
should  proceed  from  France.  After  the  mortifying 
humiliations  we  had  endured,  the  national  dignity 
demanded  that  this  point  should  not  be  departed 
from  without  necessity.  No  such  necessity  could  be 
pretended  to  exist.  Moreover,  another  mission  by 
us  would  naturally  be  regarded  as  evidence  of  a 
disposition  on  our  part  to  purchase  the  friendship 
of  revolutionary  France,  even  at  the  expense  of 
honor;  an  impression  which  could  hardly  fail  to 
injure  our  interests  with  other  countries :  and  the 
measure  would  involve  the  further  inconvenience  of 
transferring  the  negotiation  from  this  country,  where 
our  government  could  regulate  it  according  to  its 
own  view  of  exigencies,  to  France,  where  that  ad- 
vantage would  be  enjoyed  by  her  government,  and 
where  the  power  of  judging  for  us  must  be  delegated 
to  commissioners,  who,  acting  under  immense  indi- 
vidual responsibility,  at  a  distance  too  great  for  con- 
sultation, would  be  apt  to  act  with  hesitancy  and 
irresolution,  whether  the  policy  of  the  case  required 
concession  or  firmness.  This  was  to  place  it  too 
much  in  the  power  of  France  to  manage  the  progress 
of  the  negotiation  according  to  events. 

It  has  been  said  that  Paris  was  wisely  preferred  as 
the  place  of  negotiation,  because  it  served  to  avoid 
the  caballings  of  a  French  minister  in  this  country. 
But  there  is  not  enough  in  this  argument  to  counter- 


336  Alexander  Hamilton 

balance  the  weighty  considerations  on  the  other  side. 
The  intrigues  of  Genet  and  his  successors  were  per- 
plexing to  the  government,  chiefly  because  they 
were  too  well  seconded  by  the  prepossessions  of  the 
people.  The  great  alteration  in  public  opinion  had 
put  it  completely  in  the  power  of  our  Executive  to 
control  the  machinations  of  any  future  public  agent 
of  France.  It  ought  also  to  be  remembered,  that  if 
France  has  not  known  agents,  she  never  will  be  with- 
out secret  ones,  and  that  her  partisans  among  our 
citizens  can  much  better  promote  her  cause  than  any 
agents  she  can  send.  In  fact,  her  agents,  by  their 
blunders,  were  in  the  event  rather  useful  than  per- 
nicious to  our  affairs. 

But  is  it  likely  that  France  would  have  sent  a 
minister  to  this  country?  When  we  find,  that  from 
calculations  of  policy  she  could  brook  the  ignominy 
which  the  publication  of  the  despatches  of  our  com- 
missioners was  calculated  to  bring  upon  her;  and 
stifling  her  resentment  could  invite  the  renewal  of 
negotiation ;  what  room  can  there  be  to  doubt,  that 
the  same  calculations  would  have  induced  her  to 
send  a  minister  to  this  country  when  an  opening  was 
given  for  it? 

The  French  Minister  for  Foreign  Relations,  through 
the  French  diplomatic  agent  at  The  Hague,  had 
opened  a  communication  with  Mr.  Murray,  our  resi- 
dent there,  for  the  purpose  of  reviving  negotiation 
between  the  two  countries.  In  this  manner,  assur- 
ances were  given  that  France  was  disposed  to  treat, 
and  that  a  minister  from  us  would  be  received  and 
accredited.  But  they  were  accompanied  with  in- 


John  Adams  337 

timations  of  the  characters  proper  to  be  employed, 
and  who  would  be  likely  to  succeed;  which  was  ex- 
ceptionable, both  as  it  savored  of  the  pretension 
(justly  censured  by  the  President  himself)  of  pre- 
scribing to  other  governments  how  they  were  to 
manage  their  own  affairs;  and  as  it  might,  according 
to  circumstances,  be  construed  into  a  tacit  condition 
of  the  promise  to  receive  a  minister.  Overtures  so 
circuitous  and  informal,  through  a  person  who  was 
not  the  regular  organ  of  the  French  Government  for 
making  them,  to  a  person  who  was  not  the  regular 
organ  of  the  American  Government  for  receiving 
them,  might  be  a  very  fit  mode  of  preparing  the  way 
for  the  like  overtures  in  a  more  authentic  and  ob- 
ligatory shape.  But  they  were  a  very  inadequate 
basis  for  the  institution  of  a  new  mission. 

When  the  President  pledged  himself  in  his  speech 
to  send  a  minister,  if  satisfactory  assurances  of  a 
proper  reception  were  given,  he  must  have  been 
understood  to  mean  such  as  were  direct  and  official, 
not  such  as  were  both  informal  and  destitute  of  a 
competent  sanction. 

Yet  upon  this  loose  and  vague  foundation,  Mr. 
Adams  precipitately  nominated  Mr.  Murray  as  En- 
voy to  the  French  Republic,  without  previous  con- 
sultation with  any  of  his  ministers.  The  nomination 
itself  was  to  each  of  them,  even  to  the  Secretary  of 
State,  his  constitutional  counsellor  in  similar  affairs, 
the  first  notice  of  the  project. 

Thus  was  the  measure  wrong,  both  as  to  mode  and 
substance. 

A  President  is  not  bound  to  conform  to  the  advice 


VOL.  VII. — 22. 


33^  Alexander  Hamilton 

of  his  ministers.  He  is  even  under  no  positive  in- 
junction to  ask  or  require  it.  But  the  Constitution 
presumes  that  he  will  consult  them ;  and  the  genius 
of  our  government  and  the  public  good  recommend 
the  practice. 

As  the  President  nominates  his  ministers,  and  may 
displace  them  when  he  pleases,  it  must  be  his  own 
fault  if  he  be  not  surrounded  by  men  who,  for  ability 
and  integrity,  deserve  his  confidence.  And  if  his 
ministers  are  of  this  character,  the  consulting  of  them 
will  always  be  likely  to  be  useful  to  himself  and  to 
the  state.  Let  it  even  be  supposed  that  he  is  a  man 
of  talents  superior  to  the  collected  talents  of  all  his 
ministers  (which  can  seldom  happen,  as  the  world 
has  seen  but  few  Fredericks),  he  may,  nevertheless, 
often  assist  his  judgment  by  a  comparison  and  col- 
lision of  ideas.  The  greatest  genius,  hurried  away 
by  the  rapidity  of  its  own  conceptions,  will  occasion- 
ally overlook  obstacles  which  ordinary  and  more 
phlegmatic  men  will  discover,  and  which,  when  pre- 
sented to  his  consideration,  will  be  thought  by  him- 
self decisive  objections  to  his  plans. 

When,  unhappily,  an  ordinary  man  dreams  him- 
self to  be  a  Frederick,  and  through  vanity  refrains 
from  counselling  with  his  constitutional  advisers,  he 
is  very  apt  to  fall  into  the  hands  of  miserable  in- 
triguers, with  whom  his  self-love  is  more  at  ease,  and 
who  without  difficulty  slide  into  his  confidence,  and 
by  flattery  govern  him. 

The  ablest  men  may  profit  by  advice.  Inferior 
men  cannot  dispense  with  it;  and  if  they  do  not 
get  it  through  legitimate  channels,  it  will  find  its 


John  Adams  339 

way  to  them  through  such  as  are  clandestine  and 
impure. 

Very  different  from  the  practice  of  Mr.  Adams  was 
that  of  the  modest  and  sage  Washington.  He  con- 
sulted much,  pondered  much,  resolved  slowly,  re- 
solved surely. 

And  as  surely,  Mr.  Adams  might  have  benefited  by 
the  advice  of  his  ministers. 

The  stately  system  of  not  consulting  ministers  is 
likely  to  have  a  further  disadvantage.  It  will  tend 
to  exclude  from  places  of  primary  trust  the  men  most 
fit  to  occupy  them. 

Few  and  feeble  are  the  inducements  to  accept  a 
place  in  our  administration.  Far  from  being  lucra- 
tive, there  is  not  one  which  will  not  involve  pecuniary 
sacrifice  to  every  honest  man  of  pre-eminent  talents. 
And  has  not  experience  shown,  that  he  must  be  for- 
tunate indeed,  if  even  the  successful  execution  of  his 
task  can  secure  to  him  consideration  and  fame  ?  Of 
a  large  harvest  of  obloquy  he  is  sure. 

If  excluded  from  the  counsels  of  the  Executive 
Chief,  his  office  must  become  truly  insignificant. 
What  able  and  virtuous  man  will  long  consent  to  be 
so  miserable  a  pageant? 

Every  thing  that  tends  to  banish  from  the  admin- 
istration able  men,  tends  to  diminish  the  chances  of 
able  counsels.  The  probable  operation  of  a  system 
of  this  kind,  must  be  to  consign  places  of  the  highest 
trust  to  incapable  honest  men,  whose  inducement 
will  be  a  livelihood,  or  to  capable  dishonest  men,  who 
will  seek  indirect  indemnifications  for  the  deficiency 
of  direct  and  fair  inducements. 


34°  Alexander  Hamilton 

The  precipitate  nomination  of  Mr.  Murray,  brought 
Mr.  Adams  into  an  awkward  predicament. 

He  found  it  necessary  to  change  his  plan  in  its 
progress,  and  instead  of  one,  to  nominate  three 
envoys,  and  to  superadd  a  promise,  that,  though 
appointed,  they  should  not  leave  the  United  States 
till  further  and  more  perfect  assurances  were  given 
by  the  French  Government. 

This  remodification  of  the  measure  was  a  virtual 
acknowledgment  that  it  had  been  premature.  How 
unseemly  was  this  fluctuation  in  the  Executive  Chief. 
It  argued  either  instability  of  views,  or  want  of 
sufficient  consideration  beforehand.  The  one  or  the 
other,  in  an  affair  of  so  great  moment,  is  a  serious 
reproach. 

Additional  and  more  competent  assurances  were 
received;  but  before  the  envoys  departed,  intelli- 
gence arrived  of  a  new  revolution  in  the  French 
Government;  which,  in  violation  of  the  Constitu- 
tion, had  expelled  two  of  the  Directory. 

Another  revolution:  another  Constitution  over- 
thrown. Surely  here  was  reason  for  a  pause,  at 
least  till  it  was  ascertained  that  the  new  Directory 
would  adhere  to  the  engagement  of  its  predecessors, 
and  would  not  send  back  our  envoys  with  disgrace. 

In  the  then  posture  of  French  affairs,  which  ex- 
ternally as  well  as  internally  were  unprosperous,  a 
pause  was  every  way  prudent.  The  recent  revolu- 
tion was  a  valid  motive  for  it. 

Definite  compacts  between  nations,  called  real 
treaties,  are  binding,  notwithstanding  revolutions  of 
governments.  But  to  apply  the  maxim  to  minis- 


John  Adams  341 

terial  acts,  preparatory  only  to  negotiation,  is  to  ex- 
tend it  too  far ;  to  apply  it  to  such  acts  of  an  unstable 
revolutionary  government  (like  that  of  France  at 
that  time)  is  to  abuse  it. 

Had  any  policy  of  the  moment  demanded  it,  it 
would  have  been  not  at  all  surprising  to  have  seen 
the  new  Directory  disavowing  the  assurance  which 
had  been  given,  and  imputing  it  as  a  crime  to  the 
ex-directors,  on  the  pretence  that  they  had  pro- 
strated the  dignity  of  the  republic  by  courting  the 
renewal  of  negotiation  with  a  government  which  had 
so  grossly  insulted  it. 

Yet  our  envoys  were  dispatched  without  a  ratifica- 
tion of  the  assurance  by  the  new  Directory,  at  the 
hazard  of  the  interests  and  the  honor  of  the  country. 

Again,  the  dangerous  and  degrading  system  of 
not  consulting  ministers,  was  acted  upon. 

When  the  news  of  the  revolution  in  the  Directory 
arrived,  Mr.  Adams  was  at  his  seat  in  Massachusetts. 
His  ministers  addressed  to  him  a  joint  letter,  com- 
municating the  intelligence,  and  submitting  to  his 
consideration,  whether  that  event  ought  not  to 
suspend  the  projected  mission.  In  a  letter  which 
he  afterwards  wrote  from  the  same  place,  he  directed 
the  preparation  of  a  draft  of  instructions  for  the 
envoys,  and  intimated  that  their  departure  would 
be  suspended  for  some  time. 

Shortly  after  he  came  to  Trenton,  where  he  ad- 
justed with  his  ministers  the  tenor  of  the  instructions 
to  be  given ;  but  he  observed  a  profound  silence  on 
the  question,  whether  it  was  expedient  that  the 
mission  should  proceed.  The  morning  after  the  in- 


342  Alexander  Hamilton 

structions  were  settled,  he  signified  to  the  Secre- 
tary of  State  that  the  envoys  were  immediately  to 
depart. 

He  is  reported  to  have  assigned  as  the  reason  of 
his  silence,  that  he  knew  the  opinions  of  his  ministers 
from  their  letter;  that  he  had  irrevocably  adopted 
an  opposite  one ;  and  that  he  deemed  it  most  delicate 
not  to  embarrass  them  by  a  useless  discussion. 

But  would  it  not  have  been  more  prudent  to  have 
kept  his  judgment  in  some  degree  of  suspense,  till 
after  an  interview  and  discussion  with  his  ministers  ? 
Ought  he  to  have  taken  it  for  granted  that  the 
grounds  of  his  opinion  were  so  infallible  that  there 
was  no  possibility  of  arguments  being  used  which 
were  sufficient  to  shake  them?  Ought  he  not  to 
have  recollected  the  sudden  revolution  which  his 
judgment  had  undergone  in  the  beginning  of  the 
business,  and  to  have  inferred  from  this  that  it 
might  have  yielded  in  another  instance  to  better 
lights?  Was  it  necessary  for  him,  if  he  had  had  a 
conference  with  his  ministers,  to  have  alarmed  their 
delicacy  by  prefacing  the  discussion  with  a  declara- 
tion that  he  had  fixed  an  unalterable  opinion  ?  Did 
not  the  intimation  respecting  a  suspension  of  the 
departure  of  the  envoys,  imply  that  this  would  con- 
tinue till  there  was  a  change  of  circumstances?  Was 
it  not  a  circumstance  to  strengthen  expectation  in 
the  ministers,  when  consulted  about  the  instructions, 
that  they  would  be  heard  as  to  the  principal  point, 
previous  to  a  definitive  resolution? 

Giving  Mr.  Adams  credit  for  sincerity,  the  desultori- 
ness  of  his  mind  is  evinced  by  the  very  different 


John  Adams  343 

grounds  upon  which,  at  different  times,  he  has  de- 
fended the  propriety  of  the  mission. 

Sometimes  he  has  treated  with  ridicule  the  idea 
of  its  being  a  measure  which  would  terminate  in 
peace;  asserting  that  France  would  not  accommo- 
date, on  terms  admissible  by  the  United  States,  and 
that  the  effect  to  be  expected  from  the  mission  was 
the  demonstration  of  this  truth,  and  the  union  of 
public  opinion  on  the  necessity  of  war. 

Sometimes,  and  most  frequently,  he  has  vindicated 
the  measure  as  one  conformable  with  the  general  and 
strong  wish  of  the  country  for  peace,  and  as  likely  to 
promote  that  desirable  object. 

It  is  now  earnestly  to  be  hoped,  that  the  final 
issue  of  the  mission,  in  an  honorable  accommoda- 
tion, may  compensate  for  the  sacrifice  of  consistency, 
dignity,  harmony,  and  reputation,  at  which  it  has 
been  undertaken. 

But  even  in  relation  to  the  adjustment  of  differ- 
ences with  the  French  Republic,  the  measure  was 
injudicious.  It  was  probable  that  it  would  delay 
rather  than  accelerate  such  an  adjustment. 

The  situation  of  French  affairs,  at  the  time  of  the 
overtures  for  renewing  the  negotiation,  coincides 
with  the  solicitude  which  was  manifested  for  that 
object,  to  render  it  likely  that,  at  this  juncture, 
France  really  desired  accommodation.  If  this  was 
so,  it  is  presumable  (as  observed  in  another  place) 
that,  had  not  the  declaration  about  sending  a  min- 
ister to  her  intervened,  she  would  have  sent  one  to 
us,  with  adequate  powers  and  instructions.  Towards 
a  minister  here,  our  government  might  have  acted 


344  Alexander  Hamilton 

such  a  part  as  would  have  hastened  a  conclusion; 
and  the  minister,  conforming  to  the  impressions  of 
his  government  when  he  was  sent,  it  is  not  improba- 
ble that  a  desirable  arrangement  might  some  time 
since  have  been  effected. 

Instead  of  this  the  mode  pursued  naturally  tended 
to  delay.  A  lapse  of  time,  by  changing  the  circum- 
stances, is  very  apt  to  change  the  views  of  govern- 
ments. The  French  agents,  charged  with  the  negotia- 
tion at  Paris,  could  find  little  difficulty  in  protracting 
it  till  events  (such  as  the  fate  of  a  campaign)  should 
be  ascertained,  as  a  guide  to  rise  or  fall  in  their  pre- 
tensions. And  in  this  way,  obstacles  might  supervene 
which  would  not  have  existed  in  the  beginning,  and 
which  might  render  accommodation  impracticable— 
or  practicable  only  on  terms  injurious  to  our  interests. 

Thus,  on  every  just  calculation,  whatever  may  be 
the  issue,  the  measure,  in  reference  either  to  our 
internal  or  foreign  affairs,  even  to  our  concerns  with 
France  herself,  was  alike  impolitic. 

It  is  sometimes  defended  by  the  argument,  that 
when  our  commissioners  departed,  there  were  cir- 
cumstances in  the  position  of  Europe  which  made  a 
general  peace  during  the  succeeding  winter  proba- 
ble, and  that  it  would  have  been  dangerous  for 
this  country,  remote  as  it  is  from  Europe,  to  have 
been  without  agents  on  the  spot  authorized  to  settle 
its  controversy  with  France,  at  the  same  epoch. 
The  country,  it  is  said,  might  otherwise  have  been 
left  in  the  perilous  situation  of  having  a  subsisting 
quarrel  with  France,  after  she  had  disembarrassed 
herself  of  all  her  European  enemies. 


John  Adams  345 

The  idea  that  a  general  peace  was  likely  to  happen 
during  that  winter,  was,  I  know,  entertained  by  Mr. 
Adams  himself;  for,  in  a  casual  conversation  at 
Trenton,  he  expressed  it  to  me,  and  I  supported  a 
different  opinion.  But  waiving  now  a  discussion  of 
the  point,  and  admitting  that  the  expectation  was 
entertained  on  substantial  grounds,  though  it  has 
not  been  verified  by  experience,  still  the  argument 
deduced  from  it  is  not  valid. 

The  expediency  of  the  measure  must  be  tested  by 
the  state  of  things  when  it  had  its  inception.  At  the 
time  the  foundation  was  laid  for  it  by  the  speech, 
when  even  the  nomination  of  Mr.  Murray  took  place, 
the  affairs  of  France  and  of  her  enemies  portended  a 
result  very  inauspicious  to  her,  and  very  different 
from  that  of  a  general  peace,  on  conditions  which 
would  leave  her  the  inclination  or  the  power  to 
prosecute  hostilities  against  this  country. 

But  even  on  the  supposition  of  other  prospects, 
Mr.  Adams  had  the  option  of  a  substitute  far  pre- 
ferable to  the  expedient  which  he  chose. 

He  might  secretly  and  confidentially  have  nomin- 
ated one  or  more  of  our  ministers  actually  abroad 
for  the  purpose  of  treating  with  France;  with  even- 
tual instructions  predicated  upon  appearances  of  an 
approaching  peace. 

An  expedient  of  this  sort,  merely  provisory,  could 
have  had  none  of  the  bad  effects  of  the  other.  If 
the  secret  was  kept,  it  could  have  had  no  incon- 
venient consequences ;  if  divulged,  it  would  have  been 
deemed  here  and  elsewhere,  a  prudent  precaution 
only,  recommended  by  the  distant  situation  of  the 


346  Alexander  Hamilton 

country,  to  meet  future  casualties,  with  which  we 
might  otherwise  not  have  been  able  to  keep  pace. 
To  the  enemies  of  France,  it  could  have  given  no  ill 
impression  of  us;  to  France,  no  motive  to  forbear 
other  conciliatory  means,  for  one  and  the  same 
reason,  namely,  because  the  operation  was  to  be 
eventual. 

There  are  some  collateral  incidents  connected  with 
this  business  of  the  mission,  which  it  may  not  be 
useless  to  mention,  as  they  will  serve  still  further 
to  illustrate  the  extreme  propensity  of  Mr.  Adams' 
temper  to  jealousy. 

It  happened  that  I  arrived  at  Trenton  a  short 
time  before  the  President — Chief- Justice  Ellsworth  a 
short  time  after  him.  This  was  considered  as  evi- 
dence of  a  combination  between  the  heads  of  depart- 
ments, the  Chief -Justice,  and  myself,  to  endeavor  to 
influence  or  counteract  him  in  the  affair  of  the 
mission. 

The  truth,  nevertheless,  most  certainly  is,  that  I 
went  to  Trenton  with  General  Wilkinson,  pursuant 
to  a  preconcert  with  him  of  some  weeks'  standing,  to 
accelerate  by  personal  conferences  with  the  Secre- 
tary of  War,  the  adoption  and  execution  of  arrange- 
ments which  had  been  planned  between  that  general 
and  myself,  for  the  future  disposition  of  the  Western 
army;  that  when  I  left  New  York  upon  this  journey, 
I  had  no  expectation  whatever  that  the  President 
would  come  to  Trenton,  and  that  I  did  not  stay  at 
this  place  a  day  longer  than  was  indispensable  to  the 
object  I  have  stated.  General  Wilkinson,  if  neces- 
sary, might  be  appealed  to,  not  only  as  knowing  that 


John  Adams  347 

this  was  a  real  and  sincere  purpose  of  my  journey, 
but  as  possessing  satisfactory  evidence,  that  in  all 
probability  I  had  no  anticipation  of  the  movement 
of  the  President. 

As  to  Chief- Justice  Ellsworth,  the  design  of  his 
journey  was  understood  to  be  to  meet  his  colleague, 
Governor  Davie,  at  the  seat  of  the  government, 
where  they  would  be  at  the  fountain-head  of  informa- 
tion, and  would  obtain  any  lights  or  explanations 
which  they  might  suppose  useful.  This  was  mani- 
festly a  very  natural  and  innocent  solution  of  the 
Chief -Justice's  visit,  and  I  believe  the  true  one. 

Yet  these  simple  occurrences  were,  to  the  jealous 
mind  of  Mr.  Adams,  "confirmation  strong,"  of  some 
mischievous  plot  against  his  independence. 

The  circumstance,  which  next  presents  itself  to 
examination,  is  the  dismission  of  the  two  secretaries, 
Pickering  and  McHenry.  This  circumstance,  it  is 
known,  occasioned  much  surprise,  and  a  strong  sen- 
sation to  the  disadvantage  of  Mr.  Adams. 

It  happened  at  a  peculiar  juncture,  immediately 
after  the  unfavorable  turn  of  the  election  in  New 
York,  and  had  much  the  air  of  an  explosion  of  com- 
bustible materials  which  had  been  long  prepared, 
but  which  had  been  kept  down  by  prudential  calcu- 
lations respecting  the  effect  of  an  explosion  upon  the 
friends  of  those  ministers  in  the  State  of  New  York. 
Perhaps,  when  it  was  supposed  that  nothing  could  be 
lost  in  this  quarter,  and.  that  something  might  be 
gained  elsewhere  by  an  atoning  sacrifice  of  those 
ministers,  especially  Mr.  Pickering,  who  had  been 
for  some  time  particularly  odious  to  the  opposition 


Alexander  Hamilton 

party,  it  was  determined  to  proceed  to  extremities. 
This,  as  a  mere  conjecture,  is  offered  for  as  much  as 
it  may  be  worth. 

One  fact,  however,  is  understood  to  be  admitted, 
namely,  that  neither  of  the  dismissed  ministers  had 
given  any  new  or  recent  cause  for  their  dismission. 

A  primary  cause  of  the  state  of  things  which  led  to 
this  event,  is  to  be  traced  to  the  ungovernable  tem- 
per of  Mr.  Adams.  It  is  a  fact  that  he  is  often  liable 
to  paroxysms  of  anger,  which  deprive  him  of  self- 
command,  and  produce  very  outrageous  behavior  to 
those  who  approach  him.  Most,  if  not  all  his  min- 
isters, and  several  distinguished  members  of  the  two 
houses  of  Congress,  have  been  humiliated  by  the 
effects  of  these  gusts  of  passion. 

This  violence,  and  the  little  consideration  for  them 
which  was  implied  in  declining  to  consult  them,  had 
occasioned  great  dryness  between  the  President  and 
his  ministers,  except,  I  believe,  the  Secretary  of  the 
Navy. 

The  neglect  was,  of  course,  most  poignant  to  Mr. 
Pickering,  because  it  had  repeatedly  operated  in 
matters  appertaining  to  his  office.  Nor  was  it  in  the 
disposition  of  this  respectable  man,  justly  tenacious 
of  his  own  dignity  and  independence,  to  practise 
condescensions  towards  an  imperious  chief.  Hence 
the  breach  constantly  grew  wider  and  wider,  till  a 
separation  took  place. 

The  manner  of  the  dismission  was  abrupt  and  un- 
courteous;  ill  suited  to  a  man  who,  in  different 
stations,  had  merited  so  much  from  his  country. 

Admitting  that  when  the  President  and  his  min- 


John  Adams  349 

ister  had  gotten  into  a  situation  thus  unpleasant,  a 
separation  was  unavoidable;  still,  as  there  was  no 
surmise  of  misconduct,  the  case  required  a  frank  po- 
liteness, not  an  uncouth  austerity. 

But  the  remark  most  interesting  in  this  particular 
to  the  character  of  the  President,  is,  that  it  was  by 
his  own  fault  that  he  was  brought  into  a  situation 
which  might  oblige  him  to  displace  a  minister,  whose 
moral  worth  has  his  own  suffrage,  and  whose  abilities 
and  services  have  that  of  the  public. 

The  dismission  of  this  minister  was  preceded  by  a 
very  curious  circumstance.  It  was,  without  doubt 
announced  as  a  thing  shortly  to  happen  in  an  oppo- 
sition circle,  before  any  friend  of  the  government  had 
the  slightest  suspicion  of  it.  This  circumstance, 
taken  in  connection  with  the  period  at  which  it  hap- 
pened, naturally  provokes  the  conjecture  that  there 
may  have  been  some  collateral  inducements  to  the 
step. 

The  dismission  of  the  Secretary  at  War  took  place 
about  the  same  time.  It  was  declared  in  the  sequel 
of  a  long  conversation  between  the  President  and 
him,  of  a  nature  to  excite  alternately  pain  and 
laughter:  pain,  for  the  weak  and  excessive  indis- 
cretions of  a  Chief  Magistrate  of  the  United  States; 
laughter  at  the  ludicrous  topics  which  constituted 
charges  against  this  officer. 

A  prominent  charge  was,  that  the  Secretary,  in  a 
report  to  the  House  of  Representatives,  had  eulo- 
gized General  Washington,  and  had  attempted  to 
eulogize  General  Hamilton,  which  was  adduced  as 
one  proof  of  a  combination,  in  which  the  Secretary 


35°  Alexander  Hamilton 

was  engaged,  to  depreciate  and  injure  him,  the 
President. 

Wonderful!  passing  wonderful!  that  a  eulogy  of 
the  dead  patriot  and  hero,  of  the  admired  and  be- 
loved Washington,  consecrated  in  the  affections  and 
reverence  of  his  country,  should,  in  any  shape,  be 
irksome  to  the  ears  of  his  successor! 

Singular,  also,  that  an  encomium  on  the  officer, 
first  in  rank  in  the  armies  of  the  United  States,  ap- 
pointed and  continued  by  Mr.  Adams,  should  in  his 
eyes  have  been  a  crime  in  the  head  of  the  War  De- 
partment, and  that  it  should  be  necessary,  in  order 
to  avert  his  displeasure,  to  obliterate  a  compliment 
to  that  officer  from  an  official  report. 

Another  principal  topic  of  accusation  was,  that  the 
Secretary  had,  with  the  other  ministers,  signed  the 
joint  letter,  which  had  been  addressed  to  the  Presi- 
dent respecting  a  suspension  of  the  mission  to  France. 
It  was  ostentatiously  asked,  how  he  or  they  should 
pretend  to  know  any  thing  of  diplomatic  affairs;  and 
it  was  plainly  intimated  that  it  was  presumption  in 
them  to  have  intermeddled  in  such  affairs. 

A  variety  of  things  equally  frivolous  and  outre 
passed.  By  way  of  episode,  it  fell  to  my  lot  to  be 
distinguished  by  a  torrent  of  gross  personal  abuse; 
and  I  was  accused  of  having  contributed  to  the  loss 
of  the  election  in  New  York,  out  of  ill-will  to  Mr. 
Adams :  a  notable  expedient  truly  for  giving  vent  to 
my  ill-will.  Who  is  so  blind  as  not  to  see,  that,  if 
actuated  by  such  a  motive,  I  should  have  preferred, 
by  the  success  of  the  election,  to  have  secured  the 
choice  of  electors  for  the  State  of  New  York,  who 


John  Adams  351 

would  have  been  likely  to  co-operate  in  the  views  by 
which  I  was  governed? 

To  those  who  have  not  had  opportunities  of 
closely  inspecting  the  weakness  of  Mr.  Adams'  char- 
acter, the  details  of  this  extraordinary  interview 
would  appear  incredible ;  but  to  those  who  have  had 
these  opportunities,  they  would  not  even  furnish  an 
occasion  of  surprise.  But  they  would  be,  to  all  who 
knew  their  truth,  irrefragable  proofs  of  his  unfitness 
for  the  station  of  Chief  Magistrate. 

Ill  treatment  of  Mr.  McHenry  cannot  fail  to 
awaken  the  sympathy  of  every  person  well  ac- 
quainted with  him.  Sensible,  judicious,  well-in- 
formed, of  an  integrity  never  questioned,  of  a  temper, 
which,  though  firm  in  the  support  of  principles,  has 
too  much  moderation  and  amenity  to  offend  by  the 
manner  of  doing  it — I  dare  pronounce  that  he  never 
gave  Mr.  Adams  cause  to  treat  him,  as  he  did,  with 
unkindness.  If  Mr.  Adams  thought  that  his  execu- 
tion of  his  office  indicated  a  want  of  the  peculiar 
qualifications  required  for  it,  he  might  have  said  so 
with  gentleness,  and  he  would  have  only  exercised  a 
prerogative  intrusted  to  him  by  the  Constitution,  to 
which  no  blame  could  have  attached ;  but  it  was  un- 
justifiable to  aggravate  the  deprivation  of  office  by 
humiliating  censures  and  bitter  reproaches. 

The  last  material  occurrence  in  the  administration 
of  Mr.  Adams,  of  which  I  shall  take  notice,  is  the 
pardon  of  Fries,  and  other  principals  in  the  late  in- 
surrection in  Pennsylvania. 

It  is  a  fact  that  a  very  refractory  spirit  has 
long  existed  in  the  western  counties  of  that  State. 


352  Alexander  Hamilton 

Repeatedly  have  its  own  laws  been  opposed  with 
violence,  and  as  often,  according  to  my  informa- 
tion, with  impunity. 

It  is  also  a  fact,  which  everybody  knows,  that  the 
laws  of  the  Union,  in  the  vital  article  of  revenue, 
have  been  twice  resisted  in  the  same  State  by  com- 
binations so  extensive,  and  under  circumstances  so 
violent,  as  to  have  called  for  the  employment  of 
military  force ;  once  under  the  former  President,  and 
once  under  the  actual  President;  which  together  cost 
the  United  States  nearly  a  million  and  a  half  of  dollars. 

In  the  first  instance  it  happened,  that  by  the  early 
submission  of  most  of  the  leaders,  upon  an  invitation 
of  the  government,  few  offenders  of  any  consequence 
remained  subject  to  prosecution.  Of  these,  either 
from  the  humanity  of  the  juries  or  some  deficiency 
in  the  evidence,  not  one  was  capitally  convicted. 
Two  poor  wretches  only  were  sentenced  to  die,  one 
of  them  little  short  of  an  idiot,  the  other  a  miserable 
follower  in  the  hindmost  train  of  rebellion,  both 
being  so  insignificant  in  all  respects,  that  after  the 
lenity  shown  to  the  chiefs,  justice  would  have  worn 
the  mien  of  ferocity,  if  she  had  raised  her  arm  against 
them.  The  sentiment  that  their  punishment  ought 
to  be  remitted  was  universal;  and  the  President, 
yielding  to  the  special  considerations,  granted  them 
pardons. 

In  the  last  instance,  some  of  the  most  important 
of  the  offenders  were  capitally  convicted — one  of 
them  by  the  verdicts  of  two  successive  juries.  The 
general  opinion  of  the  friends  of  the  government  de- 
manded an  example,  as  indispensable  to  its  security. 


John  Adams  353 

The  opinion  was  well  founded.  Two  insurrections 
in  the  same  State,  the  one  upon  the  heels  of  the 
other,  demonstrated  a  spirit  of  insubordination  or 
disaffection  which  required  a  strong  corrective.  It 
is  a  disagreeable  fact,  forming  a  weighty  argument  in 
the  question,  that  a  large  part  of  the  population  of 
Pennsylvania  is  of  a  composition  which  peculiarly 
fits  it  for  the  intrigues  of  factious  men,  who  may 
desire  to  disturb  or  overthrow  the  government. 
And  it  is  an  equally  disagreeable  fact,  that  dis- 
affection to  the  national  government  is  in  no  other 
State  more  general,  more  deeply  rooted,  or  more 
envenomed. 

The  late  Governor  Mifflin  himself  informed  me 
that,  in  the  first  case,  insurrection  had  been  organ- 
ized down  to  the  very  liberties  of  Philadelphia,  and 
that,  had  not  the  government  anticipated  it,  a  gen- 
eral explosion  would  speedily  have  ensued. 

It  ought  to  be  added,  that  the  impunity  so  often 
experienced  had  made  it  an  article  in  the  creed 
of  those  who  were  actuated  by  the  insurgent  spirit, 
that  neither  the  General  nor  the  State  Government 
dared  to  inflict  capital  punishment. 

To  destroy  this  persuasion,  to  repress  this  danger- 
ous spirit,  it  was  essential  that  a  salutary  rigor  should 
have  been  exerted,  and  that  those  who  were  under 
the  influence  of  the  one  and  the  other  should  be 
taught  that  they  were  the  dupes  of  a  fatal  illusion. 

Of  this  Mr.  Adams  appeared  so  sensible,  that, 
while  the  trials  were  pending,  he  more  than  once 
imprudently  threw  out  that  the  accused  must  found 
their  hopes  of  escape  either  in  their  innocence  or  in 


354  Alexander  Hamilton 

the  lenity  of  the  juries;  since  from  him,  in  case  of 
conviction,  they  would  have  nothing  to  expect.  And 
a  very  short  time  before  he  pardoned  them  he  de- 
clared,1 with  no  small  ostentation,  that  the  mistaken 
clemency  of  Washington  on  the  former  occasion  had 
been  the  cause  of  the  second  insurrection,  and  that 
he  would  take  care  there  should  not  be  a  third,  by 
giving  the  laws  their  full  course  against  the  con- 
victed offenders. 

Yet  he  thought  proper,  as  if  distrusting  the  courts 
and  officers  of  the  United  States,  to  resort,  through 
the  Attorney-General,  to  the  counsel  of  the  culprits 
for  a  statement  of  their  cases * ;  in  which  was  found, 
besides  some  objections  of  form,  the  novel  doctrine, 
disavowed  by  every  page  of  our  law  books,  that 
treason  does  not  consist  of  resistance  by  force  to  a 
public  law,  unless  it  be  an  act  relative  to  the  militia, 
or  other  military  force. 

And  upon  this  or  upon  some  other  ground,  not 
easy  to  be  comprehended,  he  of  a  sudden  departed 
from  all  his  former  declarations,  and,  against  the 
unanimous  advice  of  his  ministers,  with  the  Attorney- 
General,  came  to  the  resolution,  which  he  executed, 
of  pardoning  all  those  who  had  received  sentence  of 
death. 

No  wonder  that  the  public  was  thunderstruck  at 
such  a  result — that  the  friends  of  the  government 
regarded  it  as  a  virtual  dereliction.  It  was  impos- 
sible to  commit  a  greater  error.  The  particular 

1  Of  these  two  facts,  my  evidence  is  inferior  to  that  which  supports 
the  other  allegations  of  this  letter;  yet  it  is  so  strong  that  I  feel  myself 
warranted  to  state  them. 


John  Adams  355 

situation  of  Pennsylvania,  the  singular  posture  of 
human  affairs,  in  which  there  is  so  strong  a  tendency 
to  the  disorganization  of  government;  the  turbulent 
and  malignant  humors  which  exist,  and  are  so  in- 
dustriously nourished  throughout  the  United  States; 
every  thing  loudly  demanded  that  the  Executive 
should  have  acted  with  exemplary  vigor,  and  should 
have  given  a  striking  demonstration  that  condign 
punishment  would  be  the  lot  of  the  violent  opposers 
of  the  laws. 

The  contrary  course,  which  was  pursued,  is  the 
most  inexplicable  part  of  Mr.  Adams'  conduct.  It 
shows  him  so  much  at  variance  with  himself,  as  well 
as  with  sound  policy,  that  we  are  driven  to  seek  a 
solution  for  it  in  some  system  of  concession  to  his 
political  enemies;  a  system  the  most  fatal  for  him- 
self, and  for  the  cause  of  public  order,  of  any  that 
he  could  possibly  devise.  It  is  by  temporizings  like 
these  that  men  at  the  head  of  affairs  lose  the  respect 
both  of  friends  and  foes;  it  is  by  temporizings  like 
these  that,  in  times  of  fermentation  and  commotion, 
governments  are  prostrated,  which  might  easily  have 
been  upheld  by  an  erect  and  imposing  attitude. 

I  have  now  gone  through  the  principal  circum- 
stances in  Mr.  Adams'  conduct  which  have  served 
to  produce  my  disapprobation  of  him  as  Chief  Magis- 
trate. I  pledge  my  veracity  and  honor  that  I  have 
stated  none  which  are  not  either  derived  from  my 
own  knowledge,  or  from  sources  of  information  in 
the  highest  degree  worthy  of  credit. 

I  freely  submit  it,  sir,  to  your  judgment,  whether 
the  grounds  of  the  opinion  I  have  expressed  are  not 


356  Alexander  Hamilton 

weighty;  and  whether  they  are  not  sufficient  to 
exculpate  those  Federalists,  who  favor  the  equal 
support  of  Mr.  Pinckney,  from  all  blame,  and  myself, 
in  particular,  from  the  unworthy  imputation  of 
being  influenced  by  private  resentment. 

At  the  same  time,  I  will  admit,  though  it  should 
detract  from  the  force  of  my  representations,  that 
I  have  causes  of  personal  dissatisfaction  with  Mr. 
Adams.  It  is  not  my  practice  to  trouble  others  with 
my  individual  concerns ;  nor  should  I  do  it  at  present, 
but  for  the  suggestions  which  have  been  made. 
Even  with  this  incentive,  I  shall  do  it  as  little  as 
possible. 

The  circumstances  of  my  late  military  situation 
have  much  less  to  do  with  my  personal  discontent 
than  some  others.  In  respect  to  them,  I  shall  only 
say,  that  I  owed  my  appointment  to  the  station  and 
rank  I  held,  to  the  express  stipulation  of  General 
Washington,  when  he  accepted  the  command  of  the 
army,  afterwards  peremptorily  insisted  upon  by  him 
in  opposition  to  the  strong  wishes  of  the  President; 
and  that,  though  second  in  rank,  I  was  not  promoted 
to  the  first  place  when  it  became  vacant  by  the  death 
of  the  commander-in-chief.  As  to  the  former,  I 
should  have  had  no  cause  to  complain,  if  there  had 
not  been  an  apparent  inconsistency  in  the  measures 
of  the  President;  if  he  had  not  nominated  me  first 
on  the  list  of  major-generals,  and  attempted  after- 
wards to  place  me  third  in  rank.  As  to  the  latter, 
the  chief  command,  not  being  a  matter  of  routine, 
the  not  promoting  me  to  it  cannot  be  deemed  a 
wrong  or  injury;  yet  certainly  I  could  not  see  in  the 


John  Adams  357 

omission  any  proof  of  good- will  or  confidence,  or  of 
a  disposition  to  console  me  for  the  persecutions 
which  I  had  incessantly  endured.  But  I  dismiss  the 
subject,  leaving  to  others  to  judge  of  my  pretensions 
to  the  promotion,  and  of  the  weight,  if  any,  which 
they  ought  to  have  had  with  the  President. 

On  other  topics,  my  sensations  are  far  less  neutral. 
If,  as  I  have  been  assured  from  respectable  authori- 
ties, Mr.  Adams  has  repeatedly  indulged  himself  in 
virulent  and  indecent  abuse  of  me;  if  he  has  de- 
nominated me  a  man  destitute  of  every  moral  prin- 
ciple; if  he  has  stigmatized  me  as  the  leader  of  a 
British  faction;  then,  certainly,  I  have  a  right  to 
think  that  I  have  been  most  cruelly  and  wickedly 
traduced ;  then  have  I  a  right  to  appeal  to  all  those 
who  have  been  spectators  of  my  public  actions;  to 
all  who  are  acquainted  with  my  private  character  in 
its  various  relations,  whether  such  treatment  of  me 
by  Mr.  Adams  is  of  a  nature  to  weaken  or  strengthen 
his  claim  to  the  approbation  of  wise  and  good  men ; 
then  will  I  so  far  yield  to  the  consciousness  of  what 
I  am,  as  to  declare,  that  in  the  cardinal  points  of 
public  and  private  rectitude,  above  all,  in  pure  and 
disinterested  zeal  for  the  interests  and  service  of  this 
country,  I  shrink  not  from  a  comparison  with  any 
arrogant  pretender  to  superior  and  exclusive  merit. 

Having  been  repeatedly  informed  that  Mr.  Adams 
had  delineated  me  as  the  leader  of  a  British  faction, 
and  having  understood  that  his  partisans,  to  counter- 
act the  influence  of  my  opinion,  were  pressing  the 
same  charge  against  me,  I  wrote  him  a  letter  on  the 
subject,  dated  the  first  of  August  last.  No  reply 


35$  Alexander  Hamilton 

having  been  given  by  him  to  this  letter,  I,  on  the  first 
of  the  present  month,  wrote  him  another;  of  both 
which  letters  I  send  you  copies. 

Of  the  purity  of  my  public  conduct  in  this,  as  in 
other  particulars,  I  may  defy  the  severest  investiga- 
tion. 

Not  only  is  it  impossible  for  any  man  to  give  color 
to  this  absurd  charge  by  a  particle  of  proof,  or  by 
any  reasonable  presumption ;  but  I  am  able  to  show 
that  my  conduct  has  uniformly  given  the  lie  to  it. 

I  never  advised  any  connection  x  with  Great  Brit- 
ain other  than  a  commercial  one ;  and  in  this  I  never 
advocated  the  giving  to  her  any  privilege  or  advan- 
tage which  was  not  to  be  imparted  to  other  nations. 
With  regard  to  her  pretensions  as  a  belligerent  power 
in  relation  to  neutrals,  my  opinions,  while  in  the 
administration,  to  the  best  of  my  recollection,  co- 
incided with  those  of  Mr.  Jefferson.  When,  in  the 
year  1793,  her  depredations  on  our  commerce  dis- 
covered a  hostile  spirit,  I  recommended  one  defini- 
tive effort  to  terminate  differences  by  negotiation, 
to  be  followed,  if  unsuccessful,  by  a  declaration  of 
war.  I  urged,  in  the  most  earnest  manner,  the 
friends  of  the  administration,  in  both  houses  of  Con- 
gress, to  prepare  by  sea  and  land  for  the  alternative, 
to  the  utmost  extent  of  our  resources;  and  to  an 
extent  far  exceeding  that  to  which  any  member  of 

1  I  mean  a  lasting  connection.  From  what  I  recollect  of  the  train  of 
my  ideas,  it  is  possible  I  may  at  some  time  have  suggested  a  temporary 
connection  for  the  purpose  of  co-operating  against  France,  in  the  event 
of  a  definitive  rupture;  but  of  this  I  am  not  certain,  as  I  well  remember 
that  the  expediency  of  the  measure  was  always  problematical  in  my 
mind,  and  that  I  have  occasionally  discouraged  it. 


John  Adams  359 

either  party  was  found  willing  to  go.  For  this  alter- 
native, I  became  so  firmly  pledged  to  the  friends 
and  enemies  of  the  administration,  and  especially  to 
the  President  of  the  United  States,  in  writing  as 
well  as  verbally,  that  I  could  not  afterwards  have  re- 
tracted without  a  glaring  and  disgraceful  inconsist- 
ency. And  being  thus  pledged,  I  explicitly  gave  it 
as  my  opinion  to  Mr.  Jay,  Envoy  to  Great  Britain, 
that  "  unless  an  adjustment  of  the  differences  with  her 
could  be  effected  on  solid  terms,  it  would  be  better  to 
do  nothing.'"  When  the  treaty  arrived,  it  was  not 
without  full  deliberation  and  some  hesitation,  that  I 
resolved  to  support  it.  The  articles  relative  to  the 
settlement  of  differences  were  upon  the  whole  satis- 
factory; but  there  were  a  few  of  the  others  which 
appeared  to  me  of  a  different  character.  The  article 
respecting  contraband,  though  conformable  with  the 
general  law  of  nations,  was  not  in  all  its  features  such 
as  could  have  been  wished.  The  XXVth  article, 
which  gave  asylum  in  our  ports,  under  certain  excep- 
tions, to  privateers  with  their  prizes,  was  in  itself  an 
ineligible  one,  being  of  a  nature  to  excite  the  dis- 
content of  nations  against  whom  it  should  operate, 
and  deriving  its  justification  from  the  example  be- 
fore set  of  an  equivalent  stipulation  in  our  treaty 
with  France.  The  Xllth  article  was,  in  my  view, 
inadmissible.  The  enlightened  negotiator,  not  un- 
conscious that  some  parts  of  the  treaty  were  less 
well  arranged  than  was  to  be  desired,  had  himself 
hesitated  to  sign ;  but  he  had  resigned  his  scruples  to 
the  conviction  that  nothing  better  could  be  effected, 
and  that,  aggregately  considered,  the  instrument 


360  Alexander  Hamilton 

would  be  advantageous  to  the  United  States.  On 
my  part,  the  result  of  mature  reflection  was,  that  as 
the  subjects  of  controversy  which  had  threatened  the 
peace  of  the  two  nations,  and  which  implicated  great 
interests  of  this  country,  were  in  the  essential  points 
well  adjusted,  and  as  the  other  articles  would  expire 
in  twelve  years  after  the  ratification  of  the  treaty,  it 
would  be  wise  and  right  to  confirm  the  compact,  with 
the  exception  of  the  Xllth  article.  Nevertheless, 
when  an  account  was  received  that  the  British 
cruisers  had  seized  provisions  going  to  ports  of  the 
French  dominions,  not  in  fact  blockaded  or  besieged, 
I  advised  the  President  to  ratify  the  treaty  condition- 
ally only — that  is,  with  express  instructions  not  to  ex- 
change ratifications,  unless  the  British  Government 
would  disavow  a  construction  of  the  instrument 
authorizing  the  practice,  and  would  discontinue  it. 

After  the  rejection  of  Mr.  Pinckney  by  the  govern- 
ment of  France,  immediately  after  the  instalment  of 
Adams  as  President,  and  long  before  the  measure 
was  taken,  I  urged  a  member  of  Congress,  then  high 
in  the  confidence  of  the  President,  to  propose  to  him 
the  immediate  appointment  of  three  commissioners, 
of  whom  Mr.  Jefferson  or  Mr.  Madison  to  be  one, 
to  make  another  attempt  to  negotiate.  And  when 
afterwards  commissioners  were  appointed,  I  ex- 
pressly gave  it  as  my  opinion,  that  indemnification 
for  spoliations  should  not  be  a  sine  qua  non  of  ac- 
commodation. In  fine,  I  have  been  disposed  to  go 
greater  lengths  to  avoid  rupture  with  France  than 
with  Great  Britain;  to  make  greater  sacrifices  for 
reconciliation  with  the  former  than  with  the  latter. 


John  Adams  361 

In  making  this  avowal,  I  owe  it  to  my  own  charac- 
ter to  say,  that  the  disposition  I  have  confessed,  did 
not  proceed  from  predilection  for  France  (revolu- 
tionary France,  after  her  early  beginnings,  has  been 
always  to  me  an  object  of  horror),  nor  from  the 
supposition  that  more  was  to  be  feared  from  France, 
as  an  enemy,  than  from  Great  Britain  (I  thought 
that  the  maritime  power  of  the  latter  could  do  us 
much  mischief),  but  from  the  persuasion  that  the 
sentiments  and  prejudices  of  our  country  would 
render  war  with  France  a  more  unmanageable  busi- 
ness than  war  with  Great  Britain. 

Let  any  fair  man  pronounce,  whether  the  cir- 
cumstances which  have  been  disclosed  bespeak  the 
partisan  of  Great  Britain,  or  the  man  exclusively 
devoted  to  the  interests  of  this  country.  Let  any 
delicate  man  decide,  whether  it  must  not  be  shocking 
to  an  ingenuous  mind,  to  have  to  combat  a  slander 
so  vile,  after  having  sacrificed  the  interests  of  his 
family,  and  devoted  the  best  part  of  his  life  to  the 
service  of  that  country,  in  counsel  and  in  the 
field. 

It  is  time  to  conclude.  This  statement,  which  has 
been  made,  shows  that  Mr.  Adams  has  committed 
some  positive  and  serious  errors  of  administration; 
that  in  addition  to  these,  he  has  certain  fixed  points 
of  character  which  tend  naturally  to  the  detriment  of 
any  cause  of  which  he  is  the  chief,  of  any  adminis- 
tration of  which  he  is  the  head;  that  by  his  ill 
humors  and  jealousies  he  has  already  divided  and 
distracted  the  supporters  of  the  government;  that 
he  has  furnished  deadly  weapons  to  its  enemies  by 


362  Alexander  Hamilton 

unfounded  accusations,  and  has  weakened  the  force 
of  its  friends  by  decrying  some  of  the  most  influential 
of  them  to  the  utmost  of  his  power;  and  let  it  be 
added,  as  the  necessary  effect  of  such  conduct,  that 
he  has  made  great  progress  in  undermining  the 
ground  which  was  gained  for  the  government  by  his 
predecessor,  and  that  there  is  real  cause  to  appre- 
hend it  might  totter,  if  not  fall,  under  his  future 
auspices.  A  new  government,  constructed  on  free 
principles,  is  always  weak,  and  must  stand  in  need 
of  the  props  of  a  firm  and  good  administration,  till 
time  shall  have  rendered  its  authority  venerable,  and 
fortified  it  by  habits  of  obedience. 

Yet  with  this  opinion  of  Mr.  Adams,  I  have  finally 
resolved  not  to  advise  the  withholding  from  him 
a  single  vote.  The  body  of  Federalists,  for  want  of 
sufficient  knowledge  of  facts,  are  not  convinced  of 
the  expediency  of  relinquishing  him.  It  is  even 
apparent,  that  a  large  proportion  still  retain  the  at- 
tachment which  was  once  a  common  sentiment. 
Those  of  them,  therefore,  who  are  dissatisfied,  as  far 
as  my  information  goes,  are,  generally  speaking, 
willing  to  forbear  opposition,  and  to  acquiesce  in  the 
equal  support  of  Mr.  Adams  with  Mr.  Pinckney, 
whom  they  prefer.  Have  they  not  a  claim  to  equal 
deference  from  those  who  continue  attached  to  the 
former?  Ought  not  these,  in  candor,  to  admit  the 
possibility  that  the  friends  who  differ  from  them  act 
not  only  from  pure  motives,  but  from  cogent  reasons  ? 
Ought  they  not,  by  a  co-operation  in  General  Pinck- 
ney, to  give  a  chance  for  what  will  be  a  safe  issue, 
supposing  that  they  are  right  in  their  preference,  and 


John  Adams  363 

the  best  issue,  should  they  happen  to  be  mistaken? 
Especially,  since  by  doing  this  they  will  increase  the 
probability  of  excluding  a  third  candidate,  of  whose 
unfitness  all  sincere  Federalists  are  convinced.  If 
they  do  not  pursue  this  course,  they  will  certainly 
incur  an  immense  responsibility  to  their  friends  and 
to  the  government. 

To  promote  this  co-operation,  to  defend  my  own 
character,  to  vindicate  those  friends,  who  with  my- 
self have  been  unkindly  aspersed,  are  the  induce- 
ments for  writing  this  letter.  Accordingly,  it  will  be 
my  endeavor  to  regulate  the  communication  of  it  in 
such  a  manner  as  will  not  be  likely  to  deprive  Mr. 
Adams  of  a  single  vote.  Indeed,  it  is  much  my  wish 
that  its  circulation  could  forever  be  confined  within 
narrow  limits.  I  am  sensible  of  the  inconveniences 
of  giving  publicity  to  a  similar  development  of  the 
character  of  the  Chief  Magistrate  of  our  country; 
and  I  lament  the  necessity  of  taking  a  step  which  will 
involve  that  result.  Yet  to  suppress  truths,  the  dis- 
closure of  which  is  so  interesting  to  the  public  welfare 
as  well  as  to  the  vindication  of  my  friends  and  my- 
self, did  not  appear  to  me  justifiable. 

The  restraints,  to  which  I  submit,  are  a  proof  of 
my  disposition  to  sacrifice  to  the  prepossessions  of 
those,  with  whom  I  have  heretofore  thought  and 
acted,  and  from  whom  in  the  present  question  I  am 
compelled  to  differ.  To  refrain  from  a  decided  op- 
position to  Mr.  Adams'  re-election  has  been  reluc- 
tantly sanctioned  by  my  judgment ;  which  has  been 
not  a  little  perplexed  between  the  unqualified  con- 
viction of  his  unfitness  for  the  station  contemplated, 


364  Alexander  Hamilton 

and  a  sense  of  the  great  importance  of  cultivating 
harmony  among  the  supporters  of  the  government; 
on  whose  firm  union  hereafter  will  probably  depend 
the  preservation  of  order,  tranquillity,  liberty,  prop- 
erty; the  security  of  every  social  and  domestic 
blessing. 


HAMILTON   TO   ADAMS  r 

NEW  YORK,  August  i,  1800. 

SIR: — It  has  been  repeatedly  mentioned  to  me, 
that  you  have,  on  different  occasions,  asserted  the 
existence  of  a  British  faction  in  this  country;  em- 
bracing a  number  of  leading  or  influential  characters 
of  the  Federal  party  (as  usually  denominated),  and 
that  you  have  sometimes  named  me,  at  others  plainly 
alluded  to  me,  as  one  of  this  description  of  persons. 
And  I  have  likewise  been  assured,  that  of  late  some 
of  your  warm  admirers,  for  electioneering  purposes, 
have  employed  a  corresponding  language. 

I  must,  Sir,  take  it  for  granted,  that  you  cannot 
have  made  such  assertions  or  insinuations,  without 
being  willing  to  avow  them,  and  to  assign  the  reasons 
to  a  party  who  may  conceive  himself  injured  by 
them.  I  therefore  trust,  that  you  will  not  deem  it 
improper,  that  I  apply  directly  to  yourself  to  ascer- 
tain from  you,  in  reference  to  your  own  declarations, 
whether  the  information  I  have  received  has  been 

1  This  and  the  next  were  the  letters  which  preceded  the  publication 
of  the  pamphlet. 


Hamilton  to  Adams  365 

correct  or  not ;  and  if  correct,  what  are  the  grounds 
upon  which  you  have  founded  the  suggestion. 
With  respect  I  have  the  honor  to  be, 

Sir,  your  obedient  servant, 

A.  HAMILTON. 
To  JOHN  ADAMS,  Esq. 

President  of  the  United  States. 


NEW  YORK,  October  r,  1800. 

SIR: — The  time  which  has  elapsed  since  my  letter 
of  the  first  of  August  was  delivered  to  you,  precludes 
the  further  expectation  of  an  answer. 

From  this  silence,  I  will  draw  no  inference;  nor 
will  I  presume  to  judge  of  the  fitness  of  silence  on 
such  an  occasion  on  the  part  of  the  Chief  Magistrate 
of  a  republic,  towards  a  citizen  who,  without  a  stain, 
has  discharged  so  many  important  public  trusts. 

But  this  much  I  will  affirm,  that  by  whomsoever  a 
charge  of  the  kind  mentioned  in  my  former  letter, 
may,  at  any  time,  have  been  made  or  insinuated 
against  me,  it  is  a  base,  wicked,  and  cruel  calumny; 
destitute  even  of  a  plausible  pretext,  to  excuse  the 
folly,  or  mask  the  depravity  which  must  have  dic- 
tated it. 

With  due  respect,  I  have  the  honor  to  be, 

Sir,  your  obedient  servant, 

A.  HAMILTON. 
To  JOHN  ADAMS,  Esq. 

President  of  the  United  States. 


THE  REYNOLDS  PAMPHLET 


367 


THE  REYNOLDS  PAMPHLET 


Observations  on  Certain  Documents  contained  in  Nos. 
V.  and  VI.  of  The  History  of  the  United  States  for 
the  Year  1796,  in  which  the  Charge  of  Speculation 
against  Alexander  Hamilton,  late  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury,  is  fully  refuted.  Written  by  himself. 
Philadelphia:  Printed  for  John  Fenno,  by  John 
Bioren,  1797. 


spirit  of  Jacobinism,  if  not  entirely  a  new 
*      spirit,  has  at  least  been  clothed  with  a  more 
gigantic    body    and    armed    with    more    powerful 
weapons  than  it  ever  before  possessed. 

1  The  reasons  for  printing  here  these  famous  "Observations,"  known 
to  history  as  the  "Reynolds  Pamphlet,"  have  already  been  given  in 
the  preface  to  these  volumes.  With  his  usual  power  of  statement, 
Hamilton  has  told  the  story  of  the  miserable  affair  so  strongly  and 
succinctly,  that  any  words  of  explanation  from  his  editor  seem  wholly 
superfluous.  A  brief  statement,  however,  of  the  events  which  led  to 
the  publication  of  the  pamphlet  may  not  be  out  of  place.  In  1792, 
two  men  named  Clingman  and  Reynolds  were  in  jail  for  subornation 
of  perjury  in  an  attempt  to  obtain  fraudulently  the  payment  of  a  debt 
due  from  the  United  States.  Muhlenburg,  the  Democratic  Speaker, 
interested  himself  in  behalf  of  Clingman  in  getting  the  prosecution 
stopped  on  restitution  of  the  money,  and  Clingman  then  took  occasion 
to  intimate  that  Reynolds  had  a  high  officer  of  the  government  in  his 
power.  This  fact  Muhlenburg  communicated  to  Venable  and  Monroe, 
and  they  all  thereupon  proceeded  to  the  prison,  where  they  had  an 
interview  with  Reynolds.  The  upshot  of  this,  and  of  another  inter- 
view with  Mrs.  Reynolds,  was  that  these  two  worthies  and  their 

VOL.  VII.—  24. 

369 


37°  Alexander  Hamilton 

It  is  perhaps  not  too  much  to  say,  that  it  threatens 
more  extensive  and  complicated  mischiefs  to  the 
world  than  have  hitherto  flowed  from  the  three 
great  scourges  of  mankind,  WAR,  PESTILENCE,  and 
FAMINE.  To  what  point  it  will  ultimately  lead  so- 
ciety, it  is  impossible  for  human  foresight  to  pro- 
nounce; but  there  is  just  ground  to  apprehend  that 
its  progress  may  be  marked  with  calamities  of  which 
the  dreadful  incidents  of  the  French  Revolution 
afford  a  very  faint  image.  Incessantly  busy  in  un- 
dermining all  the  props  of  public  security  and  private 
happiness,  it  seems  to  threaten  the  political  and 
moral  world  with  a  complete  overthrow. 

A  principal  engine,  by  which  this  spirit  endeavors 
to  accomplish  its  purposes,  is  that  of  calumny.  It 
is  essential  to  its  success  that  the  influence  of  men 

confederate,  Clingman,  hinted  that  Hamilton  had  been  concerned  with 
Reynolds  in  buying  up  old  claims  against  the  government,  and  pro- 
duced four  anonymous  and  unimportant  notes,  which  they  attributed 
to  Hamilton.  Muhlenburg  and  his  friends  made  memoranda  of  these 
precious  conversations,  and  took  possession  of  the  notes.  They  then 
proceeded  to  call  on  Hamilton,  who  at  once  explained  the  matter  by 
stating  that  he  had  had  an  intrigue  with  Mrs.  Reynolds,  and  by  pro- 
ducing letters  from  her  in  proof.  All  three  of  the  inquisitors  declared 
themselves  satisfied.  The  next  day,  at  Hamilton's  request,  they  sent 
him  copies  of  their  memoranda  and  of  the  notes,  and  agreed  that  the 
originals  should  be  carefully  kept  from  the  former  owners,  so  that 
they  should  be  beyond  the  reach  of  misuse  or  of  publication.  Whether 
Monroe  was  even  then  plotting  a  second  mean  attack  at  a  later  time 
it  is  impossible  to  say.  It  is  only  certain  that  he  had  another  interview 
with  Clingman,  who  declared  Hamilton's  explanation  to  be  a  fabrica- 
tion originally  made  up  between  Hamilton  and  Reynolds  to  cover 
their  real  transactions,  and  all  this  rascally  stuff  Monroe  embodied  in 
still  another  memorandum.  He  then  gave  all  the  papers  to  "a  re- 
spectable character  in  Virginia,"  who  four  years  later  apparently 
turned  them  over  to  Callender,  who  printed  them  in  his  history  avow- 
edly to  avenge  the  attacks  then  making  on  Monroe.  Hamilton  at 
once  wrote  to  the  three  gentlemen  for  an  explanation.  Muhlenburg 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  371 

of  upright  principles,  disposed  and  able  to  resist  its 
enterprises,  shall  be  at  all  events  destroyed,  Not 
content  with  traducing  their  best  efforts  for  the  pub- 
lic good,  with  misrepresenting  their 'purest  motives, 
with  inferring  criminality  from  actions  innocent  or 
laudable,  the  most  direct  falsehoods  are  invented 
and  propagated  with  undaunted  effrontery  and  un- 
relenting perseverance.  Lies  often  detected  and  re- 
futed are  still  revived  and  repeated,  in  the  hope  that 
the  refutation  may  have  been  forgotten,  or  that  the 
frequency  and  boldness  of  accusation  may  supply 
the  place  of  proof.  The  most  profligate  men  are 
encouraged,  probably  bribed,  certainly  with  patron- 
age if  not  with  money,  to  become  informers  and  ac- 
cusers. And  when  tales,  which  their  character  alone 
ought  to  discredit,  are  refuted  by  evidence  and  facts 
which  oblige  the  patrons  of  them  to  abandon  their 

and  Venable,  as  became  men  of  honor,  replied  that  they  had  been  per- 
fectly satisfied  with  Hamilton's  explanation,  that  they  had  never  had 
copies  of  the  papers,  and  had  nothing  to  do  with  the  publication. 
Monroe,  on  the  contrary,  dodged  about,  and  backed  and  filled,  and 
argued  until  Hamilton  called  him  malevolent  and  dishonorable.  He 
then  said  he  was  ready  to  fight,  and  Hamilton  invited  him  to  send  a 
challenge,  whereupon  Monroe  disclaimed  any  wish  to  send  such  a 
missive.  Still  he  would  not  act  like  an  honest  man,  and  so  Hamilton 
gave  the  whole  story  and  all  the  documents  to  the  world,  and  killed  at 
a  blow  the  despicable  charge  that  he  had  been  speculating  in  govern- 
ment claims.  In  so  doing  he  cleared  his  name  and  fame  as  a  public 
man,  but  it  was  at  the  cost  of  bitter  mortification  to  himself,  and  dis- 
played to  the  public  gaze  a  wretched  blot  upon  his  private  life.  No 
harder  trial  and  no  more  honorable  act  could  well  be  devised  than 
were  involved  in  issuing  this  pamphlet.  The  original  wrong-doing  was 
terribly  expiated,  and  the  atonement  to  a  proud,  sensitive  man  was 
very  hard  to  bear.  The  character  which  suffers  most  in  the  business 
is  that  of  Monroe.  On  him  rests  a  dark  stain  of  dishonor,  of  slippery 
evasion,  and  of  mean  revenge,  which  has  never  been  wiped  out,  and 
which  apparently  can  never  be  lightened  or  diminished. 


372  Alexander  Hamilton 

support,  they  will  continue  in  corroding  whispers  to 
wear  away  the  reputations  which  they  could  not 
directly  subvert.  If,  luckily  for  the  conspirators 
against  honest  fame,  any  little  foible  or  folly  can  be 
traced  out  in  one  whom  they  desire  to  persecute,  it 
becomes  at  once  in  their  hands  a  two-edged  sword, 
by  which  to  wound  the  public  character  and  stab  the 
private  felicity  of  the  person.  With  such  men,  no- 
thing is  sacred.  Even  the  peace  of  an  unoffending 
and  amiable  wife  is  a  welcome  repast  to  their  in- 
satiate fury  against  the  husband. 

In  the  gratification  of  this  baleful  spirit,  we  not 
only  hear  the  Jacobin  newspapers  continually  ring 
with  odious  insinuations  and  charges  against  many 
of  our  most  virtuous  citizens ;  but,  not  satisfied  with 
this,  a  measure  new  in  this  country  has  been  lately 
adopted  to  give  greater  efficacy  to  the  system  of 
defamation — periodical  pamphlets  issue  from  the 
same  presses,  full  freighted  with  misrepresentation 
and  falsehood,  artfully  calculated  to  hold  up  the 
opponents  of  the  FACTION  to  the  jealousy  and  dis- 
trust of  the  present  generation,  and,  if  possible,  to 
transmit  their  names  with  dishonor  to  posterity. 
Even  the  great  and  multiplied  services,  the  tried  and 
rarely  equalled  virtues,  of  a  WASHINGTON,  can  secure 
no  exemption. 

How  then  can  I,  with  pretensions  every  way  in- 
ferior, expect  to  escape?  And  if  truly  this  be,  as 
every  appearance  indicates,  a  conspiracy  of  vice 
against  virtue,  ought  I  not  rather  to  be  flattered, 
that  I  have  been  so  long  and  so  peculiarly  an  object 
of  persecution?  Ought  I  to  regret,  if  there  be  any 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  373 

thing  about  me  so  formidable  to  the  FACTION  as  to 
have  made  me  worthy  to  be  distinguished  by  the 
plenitude  of  its  rancor  and  venom? 

It  is  certain  that  I  have  had  a  pretty  copious  ex- 
perience of  its  malignity.  For  the  honor  of  human 
nature,  it  is  to  be  hoped  that  the  examples  are  not 
numerous  of  men  so  greatly  calumniated  and  per- 
secuted as  I  have  been,  with  so  little  cause. 

I  dare  appeal  to  my  immediate  fellow-citizens,  of 
whatever  political  party,  for  the  truth  of  the  asser- 
tion, that  no  man  ever  carried  into  public  life  a  more 
unblemished  pecuniary  reputation,  than  that  with 
which  I  undertook  the  office  of  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury ;  a  character  marked  by  indifference  to  the 
acquisition  of  property  rather  than  by  avidity  for  it. 

With  such  a  character,  however  natural  it  was  to 
expect  criticism  and  opposition,  as  to  the  political 
principles  which  I  might  manifest  or  be  supposed  to 
entertain,  as  to  the  wisdom  or  expediency  of  the 
plans,  which  I  might  propose,  or  as  to  the  skill,  care, 
or  diligence  with  which  the  business  of  my  depart- 
ment might  be  executed,  it  was  not  natural  to  expect, 
nor  did  I  expect,  that  my  fidelity  or  integrity  in  a 
pecuniary  sense  would  ever  be  called  into  question. 

But  on  this  head  a  mortifying  disappointment  has 
been  experienced.  Without  the  slightest  foundation, 
I  have  been  repeatedly  held  up  to  the  suspicions  of 
the  world  as  a  man  directed  in  his  administration  by 
the  most  sordid  views ;  who  did  not  scruple  to  sacri- 
fice the  public  to  his  private  interest,  his  duty  and 
honor  to  the  sinister  accumulation  of  wealth. 

Merely  because  I  retained  an  opinion  once  common 


374  Alexander  Hamilton 

to  me  and  the  most  influential  of  those  who  opposed 
me,  that  the  public  debt  ought  to  be  provided  for  on  the 
basis  of  the  contract  upon  which  it  was  created,  I  have 
been  wickedly  accused  with  wantonly  increasing  the 
public  burthen  many  millions  in  order  to  promote  a 
stock- jobbing  interest  of  myself  and  friends. 

Merely  because  a  member  of  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives entertained  a  different  idea  from  me,  as  to 
the  legal  effect  of  appropriation  laws,  and  did  not 
understand  accounts,  I  was  exposed  to  the  imputa- 
tion of  having  committed  a  deliberate  and  criminal 
violation  of  the  laws,  and  to  the  suspicion  of  being 
a  defaulter  for  millions;  so  as  to  have  been  driven 
to  the  painful  necessity  of  calling  for  a  formal  and 
solemn  inquiry. 

The  inquiry  took  place.  It  was  conducted  by  a 
committee  of  fifteen  members  of  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives— a  majority  of  them  either  my  decided 
political  enemies  or  inclined  against  me,  some  of 
them  the  most  active  and  intelligent  of  my  opponents, 
without  a  single  man,  who,  being  known  to  be 
friendly  to  me,  possessed  also  such  knowledge  and 
experience  of  public  affairs  as  would  enable  him  to 
counteract  injurious  intrigues.  MR.  GILES,  of  Vir- 
ginia, who  had  commenced  the  attack,  was  of  the 
committee. 

The  officers  and  books  of  the  treasury  were  exam- 
ined. The  transactions  between  the  several  banks 
and  the  treasury  were  scrutinized.  Even  my  private 
accounts  with  those  institutions  were  laid  open  to  the 
committee ;  and  every  possible  facility  given  to  the 
inquiry.  The  result  was  a  complete  demonstration 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  375 

that  the  suspicions  that  had  been  entertained  were 
groundless. 

Those  which  had  taken  the  fastest  hold  were,  that 
the  public  monies  had  been  made  subservient  to 
loans,  discounts,  and  accommodations  to  myself  and 
friends.  The  committee  in  reference  to  this  point 
reported  thus:  "It  appears,  from  the  affidavits  of 
the  cashier  and  several  officers  of  the  Bank  of  the 
United  States  and  several  of  the  directors,  the 
cashier,  and  other  officers  of  the  Bank  of  New  York, 
that  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  never  has  either 
directly  or  indirectly,  for  himself  or  any  other  person, 
procured  any  discount  or  credit  from  either  of  the 
said  banks  upon  the  basis  of  any  public  monies  which 
at  any  time  have  been  deposited  therein  under  his 
direction:  And  the  committee  are  satis-fled,  that  no 
monies  of  the  United  States,  whether  before  or  after 
they  have  passed  to  the  credit  of  the  Treasurer,  have 
ever  been  directly  or  indirectly  used  for  or  applied  to 
any  purposes  but  those  of  the  government,  except 
so  far  as  all  monies  deposited  in  a  bank  are  concerned 
in  the  general  operations  thereof." 

The  report,  which  I  have  always  understood  was 
unanimous,  contains  in  other  respects,  with  consider- 
able detail,  the  materials  of  a  complete  exculpation. 
My  enemies,  finding  no  handle  for  their  malice, 
abandoned  the  pursuit. 

Yet  unwilling  to  leave  any  ambiguity  upon  the 
point,  when  I  determined  to  resign  my  office,  I  gave 
early  previous  notice  of  it  to  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives, for  the  declared  purpose  of  affording  an 
opportunity  for  legislative  crimination,  if  any  ground 


Alexander  Hamilton 

for  it  had  been  discovered.  Not  the  least  step 
towards  it  was  taken.  From  which  I  have  a  right  to 
infer  the  universal  conviction  of  the  House,  that  no 
cause  existed,  and  to  consider  the  result  as  a  com- 
plete vindication. 

On  another  occasion,  a  worthless  man  of  the  name 
of  Fraunces  found  encouragement  to  bring  forward 
to  the  House  of  Representatives  a  formal  charge 
against  me  of  unfaithful  conduct  in  office.  A  Com- 
mittee of  the  House  was  appointed  to  inquire,  con- 
sisting in  this  case,  also,  partly  of  some  of  my  most 
intelligent  and  active  enemies.  The  issue  was  an 
unanimous  exculpation  of  me,  as  will  appear  by  the 
following  extract  from  the  journals  of  the  House  of 
Representatives  of  the  ipth  of  February,  1794: 

"The  House  resumed  the  consideration  of  the  re- 
port of  the  Committee,  to  whom  was  referred  the 
memorial  of  Andrew  G.  Fraunces:  whereupon, 

"Resolved,  That  the  reasons  assigned  by  the  Sec- 
retary of  the  Treasury  for  refusing  payment  of  the 
warrants  referred  to  in  the  memorial,  are  fully  suf- 
ficient to  justify  his  conduct;  and  that,  in  the  whole 
course  of  this  transaction,  the  Secretary  and  other 
officers  of  the  Treasury  have  acted  a  meritorious  part 
towards  the  public. 

"Resolved,  That  the  charge  exhibited  in  the  me- 
morial against  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  relative 
to  the  purchase  of  the  pension  of  Baron  de  Glaubeck, 
is  wholly  illiberal  and  groundless."  x 

1  Would  it  be  believed,  after  all  this,  that  Mr.  Jefferson,  Vice-Presi- 
dent of  the  United  States,  would  write  to  this  Fraunces  friendly  let- 
ters? Yet  such  is  the  fact,  as  will  be  seen  in  the  Appendix,  Nos.  xliv. 
and  xlv. 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  377 

Was  it  not  to  have  been  expected  that  these  re- 
peated demonstrations  of  the  injustice  of  the  accusa- 
tions hazarded  against  me  would  have  abashed  the 
enterprise  of  my  calumniators?  However  natural 
such  an  expectation  may  seem,  it  would  betray  an 
ignorance  of  the  true  character  of  the  Jacobin  sys- 
tem. It  is  a  maxim  deeply  ingrafted  in  that  dark 
system,  that  no  character,  however  upright,  is  a 
match  for  constantly  reiterated  attacks,  however 
false.  It  is  well  understood  by  its  disciples  that 
every  calumny  makes  some  proselytes,  and  even 
retains  some;  since  justification  seldom  circulates  as 
rapidly  and  as  widely  as  slander.  The  number  of 
those  who  from  doubt  proceed  to  suspicion,  and 
thence  to  belief,  of  imputed  guilt,  is  continually 
augmenting;  and  the  public  mind,  fatigued  at 
length  with  resistance  to  the  calumnies  which  eter- 
nally assail  it,  is  apt  at  the  end  to  sit  down  with  the 
opinion  that  a  person  so  often  accused  cannot  be 
entirely  innocent. 

Relying  upon  this  weakness  of  human  nature,  the 
Jacobin  Scandal-Club,  though  often  defeated,  con- 
stantly return  to  the  charge.  Old  calumnies  are 
served  up  afresh,  and  every  pretext  is  seized  to  add 
to  the  catalogue.  The  person  whom  they  seek  to 
blacken,  by  dint  of  repeated  strokes  of  their  brush, 
becomes  a  demon  in  their  own  eyes,  though  he 
might  be  pure  and  bright  as  an  angel  but  for  the 
daubing  of  those  wizard  painters. 

Of  all  the  vile  attempts  which  have  been  made  to 
injure  my  character,  that  which  has  been  lately 
revived  in  Nos.  V.  and  VI.  of  the  History  of  the 


Alexander  Hamilton 

United  States  for  1796,  is  the  most  vile.  This  it  will 
be  impossible  for  any  intelligent,  I  will  not  say  candid, 
man  to  doubt,  when  he  shall  have  accompanied  me 
through  the  examination. 

I  owe  perhaps  to  my  friends  an  apology  for  con- 
descending to  give  a  public  explanation.  A  just 
pride  with  reluctance  stoops  to  a  formal  vindication 
against  so  despicable  a  contrivance,  and  is  inclined 
rather  to  oppose  to  it  the  uniform  evidence  of  an 
upright  character.  This  would  be  my  conduct  on 
the  present  occasion,  did  not  the  tale  seem  to  derive 
a  sanction  from  the  names  of  three  men  of  some 
weight  and  consequence  in  the  society;  a  circum- 
stance which  I  trust  will  excuse  me  for  paying  at- 
tention to  a  slander  that,  without  this  prop,  would 
defeat  itself  by  intrinsic  circumstances  of  absurdity 
and  malice. 

The  charge  against  me  is  a  connection  with  one 
James  Reynolds  for  purposes  of  improper  pecuniary 
speculation.  My  real  crime  is  an  amorous  connec- 
tion with  his  wife  for  a  considerable  time,  with  his 
privity  and  connivance,  if  not  originally  brought  on 
by  a  combination  between  the  husband  and  wife 
with  the  design  to  extort  money  from  me. 

This  confession  is  not  made  without  a  blush.  I 
cannot  be  the  apologist  of  any  vice  because  the 
ardor  of  passion  may  have  made  it  mine.  I  can 
never  cease  to  condemn  myself  for  the  pang  which  it 
may  inflict  in  a  bosom  eminently  entitled  to  all  my 
gratitude,  fidelity,  and  love.  But  that  bosom  will 
approve,  that,  even  at  so  great  an  expense,  I  should 
effectually  wipe  away  a  more  serious  stain  from  a 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  379 

name  which  it  cherishes  with  no  less  elevation  than 
tenderness.  The  public,  too,  will,  I  trust,  excuse 
the  confession.  The  necessity  of  it  to  my  defence 
against  a  more  heinous  charge  could  alone  have 
extorted  from  me  so  painful  an  indecorum. 

Before  I  proceed  to  an  exhibition  of  the  positive 
proof  which  repels  the  charge,  I  shall  analyze  the 
documents  from  which  it  is  deduced,  and  I  am  mis- 
taken if  with  discerning  and  candid  minds  more 
would  be  necessary.  But  I  desire  to  obviate  the 
suspicions  of  the  most  suspicious. 

The  first  reflection  which  occurs  on  a  perusal  of 
the  documents  is  that  it  is  morally  impossible  I 
should  have  been  foolish  as  well  as  depraved  enough 
to  employ  so  vile  an  instrument  as  Reynolds  for  such 
insignificant  ends,  as  are  indicated  by  different  parts 
of  the  story  itself.  My  enemies  to  be  sure  have 
kindly  pourtrayed  me  as  another  Chartres  on  the 
score  of  moral  principle.  But  they  have  been  ever 
bountiful  in  ascribing  talents.  It  has  suited  their 
purpose  to  exaggerate  such  as  I  may  possess,  and  to 
attribute  to  them  an  influence  to  which  they  are  not 
entitled.  But  the  present  accusation  imputes  to  me 
as  much  folly  as  wickedness.  All  the  documents 
show,  and  it  is  otherwise  matter  of  notoriety,  that 
Reynolds  was  an  obscure,  unimportant,  and  profli- 
gate man.  Nothing  could  be  more  weak,  because 
nothing  could  be  more  unsafe  than  to  make  use 
of  such  an  instrument;  to  use  him,  too,  without 
any  intermediate  agent  more  worthy  of  confidence 
who  might  keep  me  out  of  sight;  to  write  him  nu- 
merous letters  recording  the  objects  of  the  improper 


380  Alexander  Hamilton 

connection  (for  this  is  pretended  and  that  the  letters 
were  afterwards  burnt  at  my  request) ;  to  unbosom 
myself  to  him  with  a  prodigality  of  confidence,  by 
very  unnecessarily  telling  him,  as  he  alleges,  of  a 
connection  in  speculation  between  myself  and  Mr. 
Duer.  It  is  very  extraordinary,  if  the  head  of  the 
money  department  of  a  country,  being  unprincipled 
enough  to  sacrifice  his  trust  and  his  integrity,  could 
not  have  contrived  objects  of  profit  sufficiently  large 
to  have  engaged  the  co-operation  of  men  of  far 
greater  importance  than  Reynolds,  and  with  whom 
there  could  have  been  due  safety,  and  should  have 
been  driven  to  the  necessity  of  unkennelling  such  a 
reptile  to  be  the  instrument  of  his  cupidity. 

But,  moreover,  the  scale  of  the  concern  with  Rey- 
nolds, such  as  it  is  presented,  is  contemptibly  narrow 
for  a  rapacious  speculating  Secretary  of  the  Treasury. 
Clingman,  Reynolds,  and  his  wife  were  manifestly  in 
very  close  confidence  with  each  other.  It  seems 
there  was  a  free  communication  of  secrets.  Yet  in 
clubbing  their  different  items  of  information  as  to 
the  supplies  of  money  which  Reynolds  received  from 
me,  what  do  they  amount  to?  Clingman  states  that 
Mrs.  Reynolds  told  him,  that  at  a  certain  time  her 
husband  had  received  from  me  upwards  of  eleven 
hundred  dollars.  A  note  is  produced  which  shows 
that  at  one  time  fifty  dollars  were  sent  to  him,  and 
another  note  is  produced,  by  which  and  the  informa- 
tion of  Reynolds  himself  through  Clingman,  it  ap- 
pears that  at  another  time  three  hundred  dollars 
were  asked  and  refused.  Another  sum  of  two  hun- 
dred dollars  is  spoken  of  by  Clingman  as  having  been 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  381 

furnished  to  Reynolds  at  some  other  time.  What 
a  scale  of  speculation  is  this  for  the  head  of  a  public 
treasury,  for  one  who,  in  the  very  publication  that 
brings  forward  the  charge,  is  represented  as  having 
procured  to  be  funded  at  forty  millions  a  debt  which 
ought  to  have  been  discharged  at  ten  or  fifteen 
millions  for  the  criminal  purpose  of  enriching  himself 
and  his  friends?  He  must  have  been  a  clumsy 
knave,  if  he  did  not  secure  enough  of  this  excess  of 
twenty-five  or  thirty  millions,  to  have  taken  away 
all  inducement  to  risk  his  character  in  such  bad 
hands  and  in  so  huckstering  a  way  —  or  to  have 
enabled  him,  if  he  did  employ  such  an  agent,  to  do  it 
with  more  means  and  to  better  purpose.  It  is  curi- 
ous that  this  rapacious  Secretary  should  at  one  time 
have  furnished  his  speculating  agent  with  the  paltry 
sum  of  fifty  dollars;  at  another,  have  refused  him 
the  inconsiderable  sum  of  three  hundred  dollars,  de- 
claring upon  his  honor  that  it  was  not  in  his  power 
to  furnish  it.  This  declaration  was  true  or  not:  if 
the  last,  the  refusal  ill  comports  with  the  idea  of  a 
speculating  connection;  if  the  first,  it  is  very  singu- 
lar that  the  head  of  the  Treasury,  engaged  without 
scruple  in  schemes  of  profit,  should  be  destitute  of 
so  small  a  sum.  But  if  we  suppose  this  officer  to  be 
living  upon  an  inadequate  salary,  without  any  col- 
lateral pursuits  of  gain,  the  appearances  then  are 
simple  and  intelligible  enough,  applying  to  them  the 
true  key. 

It  appears  that  Reynolds  and  Clingman  were  de- 
tected by  the  then  Comptroller  of  the  Treasury,  in 
the  odious  crime  of  suborning  a  witness  to  commit 


3$2  Alexander  Hamilton 

perjury,  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  letters  of  ad- 
ministration on  the  estate  of  a  person  who  was  living, 
in  order  to  receive  a  small  sum  of  money  due  to  him 
from  the  Treasury.  It  is  certainly  extraordinary 
that  the  confidential  agent  of  the  head  of  that  de- 
partment should  have  been  in  circumstances  to  in- 
duce a  resort  to  so  miserable  an  expedient.  It  is 
odd,  if  there  was  a  speculating  connection,  that  it 
was  not  more  profitable  both  to  the  Secretary  and 
to  his  agent  than  are  indicated  by  the  circumstances 
disclosed. 

It  is  also  a  remarkable  and  very  instructive  fact 
that,  notwithstanding  the  great  confidence  and  in- 
timacy which  subsisted  between  Clingman,  Reynolds, 
and  his  wife,  and  which  continued  till  after  the  period 
of  the  liberation  of  the  two  former  from  the  prosecu- 
tion against  them,  neither  of  them  has  ever  specified 
the  objects  of  the  pretended  connection  in  specula- 
tion between  Reynolds  and  me.  The  pretext  that 
the  letters  which  contained  the  evidence  were  de- 
stroyed is  no  answer.  They  could  not  have  been 
forgotten,  and  might  have  been  disclosed  from  mem- 
ory. The  total  omission  of  this  could  only  have  pro- 
ceeded from  the  consideration  that  detail  might  have 
led  to  detection.  The  destruction  of  letters  besides 
is  a  fiction,  which  is  refuted  not  only  by  the  general 
improbability  that  I  should  put  myself  upon  paper 
with  so  despicable  a  person  on  a  subject  which 
might  expose  me  to  infamy,  but  by  the  evidence  of 
extreme  caution  on  my  part  in  this  particular,  re- 
sulting from  the  laconic  and  disguised  form  of  the 
notes  which  are  produced;  they  prove  incontestably 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  383 

that  there  was  an  unwillingness  to  trust  Reynolds 
with  my  handwriting.  The  true  reason  was  that  I 
apprehended  he  might  make  use  of  it  to  impress  upon 
others  the  belief  of  some  pecuniary  connection  with 
me,  and  besides  implicating  my  character,  might 
render  it  the  engine  of  a  false  credit,  or  turn  it  to 
some  other  sinister  use.  Hence  the  disguise;  for  my 
conduct  in  admitting  at  once  and  without  hesitation 
that  the  notes  were  from  me  proves  that  it  was  never 
my  intention  by  the  expedient  of  disguising  my 
hand  to  shelter  myself  from  any  serious  inquiry. 

The  accusation  against  me  was  never  heard  of  till 
Clingman  and  Reynolds  were  under  prosecution  by 
the  Treasury  for  an  infamous  crime.  It  will  be  seen 
by  the  document  No.  I.  (a)  that  during  the  endeavors 
of  Clingman  to  obtain  relief,  through  the  interposi- 
tion of  Mr.  Muhlenburg,  he  made  to  the  latter  the 
communication  of  my  pretended  criminality.  It 
will  be  further  seen  by  document  No.  II.  that  Rey- 
nolds had,  while  in  prison,  conveyed  to  the  ears  of 
Messrs.  Monroe  and  Venable  that  he  could  give  in- 
telligence of  my  being  concerned  in  speculation,  and 
that  he  also  supposed  that  he  was  kept  in  prison  by 
a  design  on  my  part  to  oppress  him  and  drive  him 
away.  And  by  his  letter  to  Clingman  of  the  i3th  of 
December,  after  he  was  released  from  prison,  it  also 
appears  that  he  was  actuated  by  a  spirit  of  revenge 
against  me;  for  he  declares  that  he  will  have  satis- 
faction from  me  at  all  events,  adding,  as  addressed  to 
Clingman:  "  And  you  only  I  trust." 

Three  important  inferences  flow  from  these  cir- 
cumstances: one,  that  the  accusation  against  me 


384  Alexander  Hamilton 

was  an  auxiliary  to  the  efforts  of  Clingman  and  Rey- 
nolds to  get  released  from  a  disgraceful  prosecution ; 
another,  that  there  was  a  vindictive  spirit  against 
me  at  least  on  the  part  of  Reynolds;  the  third,  that 
he  confided  in  Clingman,  as  a  coadjutor,  in  the  plan 
of  vengeance.  These  circumstances,  according  to 
every  estimate  of  the  credit  due  to  accusers,  ought 
to  destroy  their  testimony.  To  what  credit  are  per- 
sons entitled  who,  in  telling  a  story,  are  governed  by 
the  double  motive  of  escaping  from  disgrace  and 
punishment  and  of  gratifying  revenge?  As  to  Mrs. 
Reynolds,  if  she  was  not  an  accomplice,  as  it  is  too 
probable  that  she  was,  her  situation  would  naturally 
subject  her  to  the  will  of  her  husband.  But  enough 
besides  will  appear  in  the  sequel  to  show  that  her 
testimony  merits  no  attention. 

The  letter  which  has  been  just  cited  deserves  a 
more  particular  attention.  As  it  was  produced  by 
Clingman,  there  is  a  chasm  of  three  lines,  which  lines 
are  manifestly  essential  to  explain  the  sense.  It 
may  be  inferred  from  the  context,  that  these  de- 
ficient lines  would  unfold  the  cause  of  the  resentment 
which  is  expressed.  T  was  from  them  that  might 
have  been  learnt  the  true  nature  of  the  transaction. 
The  expunging  of  them  is  a  violent  presumption  that 
they  would  have  contradicted  the  purpose  for  which 
the  letter  was  produced.  A  witness  offering  such  a 
mutilated  piece  discredits  himself.  The  mutilation 
is  alone  satisfactory  proof  of  contrivance  and  in- 
terposition. The  manner  of  accounting  for  it  is 
frivolous. 

The  words  of  the  letter  are  strong — satisfaction  is 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  385 

to  be  had  at  all  events,  per  fas  et  nefas,  and  Clingman 
is  the  chosen  confidential  agent  of  the  laudable  plan 
of  vengeance.  It  must  be  confessed  he  was  not 
wanting  in  his  part. 

Reynolds,  as  will  be  seen  by  No.  II.  (a),  alleges 
that  a  merchant  came  to  him  and  offered  as  a  volun- 
teer to  be  his  bail,  who  he  suspected  had  been  insti- 
gated to  it  by  me,  and  after  being  decoyed  to  the 
place  the  merchant  wished  to  carry  him  to,  he  re- 
fused being  his  bail,  unless  he  would  deposit  a  sum 
of  money  to  some  considerable  amount,  which  he 
could  not  do,  and  was  in  consequence  committed  to 
prison.  Clingman  (No.  IV.  a)  tells  the  same  story  in 
substance  though  with  some  difference  in  form,  leav- 
ing to  be  implied  what  Reynolds  expresses,  and 
naming  Henry  Seckel  as  the  merchant.  The  deposi- 
tion of  this  respectable  citizen  (No.  XXIII.)  gives 
the  lie  to  both,  and  shows  that  he  was,  in  fact,  the 
agent  of  Clingman,  from  motives  of  good-will  to  him, 
as  his  former  book-keeper;  that  he  never  had  any 
communication  with  me  concerning  either  of  them 
till  after  they  were  both  in  custody;  that  when  he 
came  as  a  messenger  to  me  from  one  of  them,  I  not 
only  declined  interposing  in  their  behalf,  but  in- 
formed Mr.  Seckel  that  they  had  been  guilty  of  a 
crime,  and  advised  him  to  have  nothing  to  do  with 
them. 

This  single  fact  goes  far  to  invalidate  the  whole 
story.  It  shows  plainly  the  disregard  of  truth,  and 
the  malice  by  which  the  parties  were  actuated. 
Other  important  inferences  are  to  be  drawn  from  the 
transaction.  Had  I  been  conscious  that  I  had  any 

VOL.  VII. — 25. 


386  Alexander  Hamilton 

thing  to  fear  from  Reynolds  of  the  nature  which  has 
been  pretended,  should  I  have  warned  Mr.  Seckel 
against  having  any  thing  to  do  with  them?  Should 
I  not  rather  have  encouraged  him  to  have  come  to 
their  assistance?  Should  I  not  have  been  eager  to 
promote  their  liberation?  But  this  is  not  the  only 
instance  in  which  I  acted  a  contrary  part.  Cling- 
man  testifies  in  No.  V.  that  I  would  not  permit 
Fraunces,  a  clerk  in  my  office,  to  become  their  bail, 
but  signified  to  him  that  if  he  did  it,  he  must  quit 
the  department. 

Clingman  states  in  No.  IV.  (a)  that  my  note  in 
answer  to  Reynolds'  application  for  a  loan  towards 
a  subscription  to  the  Lancaster  Turnpike  was  in  his 
possession  from  about  the  time  it  was  written  (June, 
1 792).  This  circumstance,  apparently  trivial,  is  very 
explanatory.  To  what  end  had  Clingman  the  cus- 
tody of  this  note  all  that  time,  if  it  was  not  part  of  a 
project  tolay  the  foundation  for  some  false  accusation  ? 

It  appears  from  No.  V.  that  Fraunces  had  said,  or 
was  stated  to  have  said,  something  to  my  prejudice. 
If  my  memory  serves  me  aright,  it  was  that  he  had 
been  my  agent  in  some  speculations.  When  Fraun- 
ces was  interrogated  concerning  it,  he  absolutely 
denied  that  he  said  any  thing  of  the  kind.  The 
charge  which  this  same  Fraunces  afterward  pre- 
ferred against  me  to  the  House  of  Representatives, 
and  the  fate  of  it,  have  been  already  mentioned.  It 
is  illustrative  of  the  nature  of  the  combination  which 
was  formed  against  me. 

There  are  other  features  in  the  documents  which 
are  relied  upon  to  constitute  the  charge  against  me, 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  387 

that  are  of  a  nature  to  corroborate  the  inference 
to  be  drawn  from  the  particulars  which  have  been 
noticed.  But  there  is  no  need  to  be  over-minute. 
I  am  much  mistaken  if  the  view  which  has  been 
taken  of  the  subject  is  not  sufficient,  without  any 
thing  further,  to  establish  my  innocence  with  every 
discerning  and  fair  mind. 

I  proceed  in  the  next  place  to  offer  a  frank  and 
plain  solution  of  the  enigma,  by  giving  a  history  of 
the  origin  and  progress  of  my  connection  with  Mrs. 
Reynolds,  of  its  discovery,  real  and  pretended,  by 
the  husband,  and  of  the  disagreeable  embarrass- 
ments to  which  it  exposed  me.  This  history  will  be 
supported  by  the  letters  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Reynolds, 
which  leave  no  room  for  doubt  of  the  principal  facts, 
and  at  the  same  time  explain  with  precision  the  ob- 
jects of  the  little  notes  from  me  which  have  been 
published,  showing  clearly  that  such  of  them  as  have 
related  to  money  had  no  reference  to  any  concern  in 
speculation.  As  the  situation  which  will  be  dis- 
closed will  fully  explain  every  ambiguous  appear- 
ance, and  meet  satisfactorily  the  written  documents, 
nothing  more  can  be  requisite  to  my  justification. 
For  frail  indeed  will  be  the  tenure  by  which  the  most 
blameless  man  will  hold  his  reputation,  if  the  asser- 
tions of  three  of  the  most  abandoned  characters  in 
the  community,  two  of  them  stigmatized  by  the  dis- 
crediting crime  which  has  been  mentioned,  are  suffi- 
cient to  blast  it.  The  business  of  accusation  would 
soon  become,  in  such  a  case,  a  regular  trade,  and 
men's  reputations  would  be  bought  and  sold  like  any 
marketable  commodity. 


388  Alexander  Hamilton 

Some  time  in  the  summer  of  the  year  1791,  a 
woman  called  at  my  house  in  the  city  of  Philadelphia, 
and  asked  to  speak  with  me  in  private.  I  attended 
her  into  a  room  apart  from  my  family.  With  a 
seeming  air  of  affliction  she  informed  me  that  she  was 
a  daughter  of  a  Mr.  Lewis,  sister  to  a  Mr.  G.  Living- 
ston of  the  State  of  New  York,  and  wife  to  a  Mr. 
Reynolds,  whose  father  was  in  the  Commissary  De- 
partment during  the  war  with  Great  Britain;  that 
her  husband,  who  for  a  long  time  had  treated  her 
very  cruelly,  had  lately  left  her  to  live  with  another 
woman,  and  in  so  destitute  a  condition  that,  though 
desirous  of  returning  to  her  friends,  she  had  not  the 
means;  that  knowing  I  was  a  citizen  of  New  York, 
she  had  taken  the  liberty  to  apply  to  my  humanity 
for  assistance. 

I  replied,  that  her  situation  was  a  very  interesting 
one — that  I  was  disposed  to  afford  her  assistance  to 
convey  her  to  her  friends,  but  this  at  the  moment 
not  being  convenient  to  me  (which  was  the  fact),  I 
must  request  the  place  of  her  residence,  to  which  I 
should  bring  or  send  a  small  supply  of  money.  She 
told  me  the  street  and  the  number  of  the  house 
where  she  lodged.  In  the  evening  I  put  a  bank-bill 
in  my  pocket  and  went  to  the  house.  I  enquired 
for  Mrs.  Reynolds  and  was  shown  up  stairs,  at  the 
head  of  which  she  met  me  and  conducted  me  into  a 
bedroom.  I  took  the  bill  out  of  my  pocket  and  gave 
it  to  her.  Some  conversation  ensued,  from  which  it 
was  quickly  apparent  that  other  than  pecuniary  con- 
solation would  be  acceptable. 

After  this  I  had  frequent  meetings  with  her,  most 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  389 

of  them  at  my  own  house;  Mrs.  Hamilton  with  her 
children  being  absent  on  a  visit  to  her  father.  In 
the  course  of  a  short  time,  she  mentioned  to  me 
that  her  husband  had  solicited  a  reconciliation,  and 
affected  to  consult  me  about  it.  I  advised  to  it,  and 
was  soon  after  informed  by  her  that  it  had  taken 
place.  She  told  me  besides  that  her  husband  had 
been  engaged  in  speculation,  and  she  believed  could 
give  information  respecting  the  conduct  of  some 
persons  in  the  department  which  would  be  useful.  I 
sent  for  Reynolds  who  came  to  me  accordingly. 

In  the  course  of  our  interview,  he  confessed  that 
he  had  obtained  a  list  of  claims  from  a  person  in  my 
department  which  he  had  made  use  of  in  his  specula- 
tions. I  invited  him,  by  the  expectation  of  my 
friendship  and  good  offices,  to  disclose  the  person. 
After  some  affectation  of  scruple,  he  pretended  to 
yield,  and  ascribed  the  infidelity  to  Mr.  Duer,  from 
whom  he  said  he  had  obtained  the  list  in  New  York, 
while  he  (Duer)  was  in  the  department. 

As  Mr.  Duer  had  resigned  his  office  some  time 
before  the  seat  of  government  was  removed  to  Phila- 
delphia, this  discovery,  if  it  had  been  true,  was  not 
very  important — yet  it  was  the  interest  of  my  pas- 
sions to  appear  to  set  value  upon  it,  and  to  continue 
the  expectation  of  friendship  and  good  offices.  Mr. 
Reynolds  told  me  he  was  going  to  Virginia,  and  on 
his  return  would  point  out  something  in  which  I 
could  serve  him.  I  do  not  know  but  he  said  some- 
thing about  employment  in  a  public  office. 

On  his  return  he  asked  employment  as  a  clerk 
in  the  Treasury  Department.  The  knowledge  I  had 


39°  Alexander  Hamilton 

acquired  of  him  was  decisive  against  such  a  request. 
I  parried  it  by  telling  him,  what  was  true,  that  there 
was  no  vacancy  in  my  immediate  office,  and  that  the 
appointment  of  clerks  in  the  other  branches  of  the 
department  was  left  to  the  chiefs  of  the  respective 
branches.  Reynolds  alleged,  as  Clingman  relates, 
No.  IV.  (a),  as  a  topic  of  complaint  against  me,  that 
I  had  promised  him  employment  and  had  disappointed 
him.  The  situation  of  the  wife  would  naturally  in- 
cline me  to  conciliate  this  man.  It  is  possible  I  may 
have  used  vague  expressions  which  raised  expecta- 
tion; but  the  more  I  learned  of  the  person,  the  more 
inadmissible  his  employment  in  a  public  office  be- 
came. Some  material  reflections  will  occur  here  to 
a  discerning  mind.  Could  I  have  preferred  my  pri- 
vate gratification  to  the  public  interest,  should  I  not 
have  found  the  employment  he  desired  for  a  man 
whom  it  was  so  convenient  to  me,  on  my  own  state- 
ment, to  lay  under  obligations.  Had  I  had  any 
such  connection  with  him,  as  he  has  since  pretended, 
is  it  likely  that  he  would  have  wanted  other  employ- 
ment ?  Or  is  it  likely  that,  wanting  it,  I  should  have 
hazarded  his  resentment  by  a  persevering  refusal? 
This  little  circumstance  shows  at  once  the  delicacy 
of  my  conduct,  in  its  public  relations,  and  the  impos- 
sibility of  my  having  had  the  connection  pretended 
with  Reynolds. 

The  intercourse  with  Mrs.  Reynolds,  in  the  mean- 
time continued;  and  though  various  reflections  (in 
which  a  further  knowledge  of  Reynolds'  character 
and  the  suspicion  of  some  concert  between  the  hus- 
band and  wife  bore  a  part)  induced  me  to  wish  a 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  391 

cessation  of  it;  yet,  her  conduct  made  it  extremely 
difficult  to  disentangle  myself.  All  the  appearances 
of  violent  attachment,  and  of  agonizing  distress  at 
the  idea  of  a  relinquishment,  were  played  with  a 
most  imposing  art.  This,  though  it  did  not  make 
me  entirely  the  dupe  of  the  plot,  yet  kept  me  in  a 
state  of  irresolution.  My  sensibility,  perhaps  my 
vanity,  admitted  the  possibility  of  a  real  fondness; 
and  led  me  to  adopt  the  plan  of  a  gradual  discontinu- 
ance rather  than  of  a  sudden  interruption,  as  least 
calculated  to  give  pain,  if  a  real  partiality  existed. 

Mrs.  Reynolds,  on  the  other  hand,  employed  every 
effort  to  keep  up  my  attention  and  visits.  Her  pen 
was  freely  employed,  and  her  letters  were  filled  with 
those  tender  and  pathetic  effusions  which  would  have 
been  natural  to  a  woman  truly  fond  and  neglected. 

One  day,  I  received  a  letter  from  her,  which  is  in 
the  appendix  (No.  I.,  6),  intimating  a  discovery  by 
her  husband.  It  was  a  matter  of  doubt  with  me 
whether  there  had  been  really  a  discovery  by  acci- 
dent, or  whether  the  time  for  the  catastrophe  of  the 
plot  was  arrived. 

The  same  day,  being  the  i5th  of  December,  1791, 
I  received  from  Mr.  Reynolds  the  letter  (No.  II.,  6) 
by  which  he  informs  me  of  the  detection  of  his  wife 
in  the  act  of  writing  a  letter  to  me,  and  that  he  had 
obtained  from  her  a  discovery  of  her  connection  with 
me,  suggesting  that  it  was  the  consequence  of  an 
undue  advantage  taken  of  her  distress. 

In  answer  to  this  I  sent  him  a  note,  or  message, 
desiring  him  to  call  upon  me  at  my  office,  which  I 
think  he  did  the  same  day. 


392  Alexander  Hamilton 

He  in  substance  repeated  the  topics  contained  in 
his  letter,  and  concluded,  as  he  had  done  there,  that 
he  was  resolved  to  have  satisfaction. 

I  replied  that  he  knew  best  what  evidence  he  had 
of  the  alleged  connection  between  me  and  his  wife, 
that  I  neither  admitted  nor  denied  it;  that  if  he 
knew  of  any  injury  I  had  done  him,  entitling  him  to 
satisfaction,  it  lay  with  him  to  name  it. 

He  travelled  over  the  same  ground  as  before,  and 
again  concluded  with  the  same  vague  claim  of  satis- 
faction, but  without  specifying  the  kind  which  would 
content  him.  It  was  easy  to  understand  that  he 
wanted  money,  and,  to  prevent  an  explosion,  I 
resolved  to  gratify  him.  But  willing  to  manage 
his  delicacy,  if  he  had  any,  I  reminded  him  that 
I  had,  at  our  first  interview,  made  him  a  promise 
of.  service,  that  I  was  disposed  to  do  it  as  far  as 
might  be  proper,  and  in  my  power,  and  requested 
him  to  consider  in  what  manner  I  could  do  it,  and 
to  write  to  me.  He  withdrew  with  a  promise  of 
compliance. 

Two  days  after,  the  i;th  of  December,  he  wrote 
me  the  letter  (No.  III.,  b).  The  evident  drift  of  this 
letter  is  to  exaggerate  the  injury  done  by  me,  to 
make  a  display  of  sensibility,  and  to  magnify  the 
atonement  which  was  to  be  required.  It,  however, 
comes  to  no  conclusion,  but  proposes  a  meeting  at 
the  George  Tavern,  or  at  some  other  place  more  agree- 
able to  me,  which  I  should  name. 

On  receipt  of  this  letter,  I  called  upon  Reynolds, 
and,  assuming  a  decisive  tone,  told  him  that  I  was 
tired  of  his  indecision,  and  insisted  upon  his  declar- 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  393 

ing  to  me  explicitly  what  it  was  he  aimed  at.  He 
again  promised  to  explain  by  letter. 

On  the  i Qth,  I  received  the  promised  letter  (No. 
IV.,  6),  the  essence  of  which  is  that  he  was  willing  to 
take  a  thousand  dollars  as  a  plaister  for  his  wounded 
honor. 

I  determined  to  give  it  to  him,  and  did  so  in  two 
payments,  as  per  receipts  (Nos.  V.  and  VI.),  dated 
the  22d  of  December  and  3d  of  January.  It  is  a 
little  remarkable  that  an  avaricious  speculating  Sec- 
retary of  the  Treasury  should  have  been  so  straitened 
for  money  as  to  be  obliged  to  satisfy  an  engagement 
of  this  sort  by  two  different  payments! 

On  the  i  yth  of  January,  I  received  the  letter  No. 
V.,  by  which  Reynolds  writes  me  to  renew  my  visits 
to  his  wife.  He  had  before  requested  that  I  would 
see  her  no  more.  The  motive  to  this  step  appears  in 
the  conclusion  of  the  letter:  "/  rely  upon  your  be- 
friending me,  if  there  should  any  thing  offer  that 
should  be  to  my  advantage,  as  you  express  a  wish  to 
befriend  me."  Is  the  pre-existence  of  a  speculating 
connection  reconcilable  with  this  mode  of  expression  ? 

If  I  recollect  rightly,  I  did  not  immediately  accept 
the  invitation,  nor  till  after  I  had  received  several 
very  importunate  letters  from  Mrs.  Reynolds.  See 
her  letters,  No.  VIII.  (6),  IX.,  X. 

On  the  24th  of  March  following,  I  received  a  letter 
from  Reynolds,  No.  XL,  and  on  the  same  day  one 
from  his  wife,  No.  XII.  These  letters  will  further 
illustrate  the  obliging  co-operation  of  the  husband 
with  his  wife  to  aliment  and  keep  alive  my  connec- 
tion with  her. 


394  Alexander  Hamilton 

The  letters  from  Reynolds,  No.  XIII.  to  XVI. ,  are 
an  additional  comment  upon  the  same  plan.  It  was 
a  persevering  scheme  to  spare  no  pains  to  levy  con- 
tributions upon  my  passions  on  the  one  hand,  and 
upon  my  apprehensions  of  discovery  on  the  other. 
It  is  probably  to  No.  XIV.  that  my  note,  in  these 
words,  was  an  answer:  " To-morrow  what  is  re- 
quested will  be  done.  'T  will  hardly  be  possible  to- 
day." The  letter  presses  for  the  loan  which  is  asked 
for  to-day.  A  scarcity  of  cash,  which  was  not  very 
uncommon,  is  believed  to  have  modelled  the  reply. 

The  letter  No.  XVII.  is  a  masterpiece.  The  hus- 
band there  forbids  my  future  visits  to  his  wife, 
chiefly  because  I  was  careful  to  avoid  publicity.  It 
was  probably  necessary  to  the  project  of  some  deeper 
treason  against  me  that  I  should  be  seen  at  the 
house.  Hence  was  it  contrived,  with  all  the  caution 
on  my  part  to  avoid  it,  that  Clingman  should  occa- 
sionally see  me. 

The  interdiction  was  every  way  welcome,  and  was, 
I  believe,  strictly  observed.  On  the  second  of  June 
following,  I  received  the  letter,  No.  XVIII.,  from 
Mrs.  Reynolds,  which  proves  that  it  was  not  her 
plan  yet  to  let  me  off.  It  was  probably  the  prelude 
to  the  letter  from  Reynolds,  No.  XIX.,  soliciting  a 
loan  of  three  hundred  dollars  towards  a  subscription 
to  the  Lancaster  Turnpike.  Clingman 's  statement, 
No.  IV.,  admits,  on  the  information  of  Reynolds, 
that  to  this  letter  the  following  note  from  me  was 
an  answer:  "It  is  utterly  out  of  my  power,  I  assure 
you  'pon  my  honor,  to  comply  with  your  request.  Your 
note  is  returned."  The  letter  itself  demonstrates, 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  395 

that  here  was  no  concern  in  speculation  on  my  part- 
that  the  money  is  asked  as  a  favor  and  as  a  loan,  to 
be  reimbursed  simply  and  without  profit  in  less  than 
a  fortnight.     My  answer  shows  that  even  the  loan 
was  refused. 

The  letter,  No.  XX.,  from  Reynolds,  explains  the 
object  of  my  note  in  these  words:  "Inclosed  are 
fifty  dollars;  they  could  not  be  sent  sooner  "  proving 
that  this  sum  was  also  begged  for  in  a  very  apolo- 
getic style  as  a  mere  loan. 

The  letters  of  the  24th  and  3oth  of  August,  Nos. 
XXL  and  XXII.,  furnished  the  key  to  the  affair  of 
the  two  hundred  dollars  mentioned  by  Clingman  in 
No.  IV.,  showing  that  this  sum  was  likewise  asked 
by  way  of  loan,  towards  furnishing  a  small  boarding- 
house,  which  Reynolds  and  his  wife  were,  or  pre- 
tended to  be,  about  to  set  up. 

These  letters,  collectively,  furnish  a  complete 
elucidation  of  the  nature  of  my  transactions  with 
Reynolds.  They  resolve  them  into  an  amorous  con- 
nection with  his  wife,  detected,  or  pretended  to  be  de- 
tected by  the  husband,  imposing  on  me  the  necessity 
of  a  pecuniary  composition  with  him,  and  leaving  me 
afterwards  under  a  duress  for  fear  of  disclosure,  which 
was  the  instrument  of  levying  upon  me  from  time  to 
time  forced  loans.  They  apply  directly  to  this  state 
of  things,  the  notes  which  Reynolds  was  so  careful  to 
preserve,  and  which  had  been  employed  to  excite 
suspicion. 

Four,  and  the  principal,  of  these  notes  have  been 
not  only  generally  but  particularly  explained.  I 
shall  briefly  notice  the  remaining  two. 


396  Alexander  Hamilton 

"My  dear  sir,  I  expected  to  have  heard  the  day 
after  I  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  you."  This  frag- 
ment, if  truly  a  part  of  a  letter  to  Reynolds,  denotes 
nothing  more  than  a  disposition  to  be  civil  to  a  man 
whom,  as  I  said  before,  it  was  the  interest  of  my 
passions  to  conciliate.  But  I  verily  believe  it  was 
not  part  of  a  letter  to  him,  because  I  do  not  believe 
that  I  ever  addressed  him  in  such  a  style.  It  may 
very  well  have  been  part  of  a  letter  to  some  other 
person,  procured  by  means  of  which  I  am  ignorant, 
or  it  may  have  been  the  beginning  of  an  intended 
letter,  torn  off,  thrown  into  the  chimney  in  my 
office,  which  was  a  common  practice,  and  there,  or 
after  it  had  been  swept  out,  picked  up  by  Reynolds, 
or  some  coadjutor  of  his.  There  appears  to  have 
been  more  than  one  clerk  in  the  department  some- 
how connected  with  him. 

The  endeavor,  shown  by  the  letter  No.  XVII.,  to 
induce  me  to  render  my  visits  to  Mrs.  Reynolds  more 
public,  and  the  great  care  with  which  my  little  notes 
were  preserved,  justify  the  belief  that  at  a  period 
before  it  was  attempted,  the  idea  of  implicating  me 
in  some  accusation,  with  a  view  to  the  advantage  of 
the  accusers,  was  entertained.  Hence  the  motive  to 
pick  up  and  preserve  any  fragment  which  might  favor 
the  idea  of  friendly  or  confidential  correspondence. 

Secondly:  "  The  person  Mr.  Reynolds  inquired  for 
on  Friday  waited  for  him  all  the  evening  at  his  house, 
from  a  little  after  seven.  Mr.  R.  may  see  him  at 
any  time  to-day  or  to-morrow,  between  the  hours  of 
two  and  three." 

Mrs.  Reynolds  more  than  once  communicated  to 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  397 

me  that  Reynolds  would  occasionally  relapse  into 
discontent  at  his  situation,  would  treat  her  very  ill, 
hint  at  the  assassination  of  me,  and  more  openly 
threaten,  by  way  of  revenge,  to  inform  Mrs.  Hamil- 
ton. All  this  naturally  gave  some  uneasiness.  I 
could  not  be  absolutely  certain  whether  it  was  arti- 
fice or  reality.  In  the  workings  of  human  inconsis- 
tency it  was  very  possible  that  the  same  man  might 
be  corrupt  enough  to  compound  for  his  wife's  chas- 
tity, and  yet  have  sensibility  enough  to  be  restless 
in  the  situation  and  to  hate  the  cause  of  it. 

Reflections  like  these  induced  me  for  some  time  to 
use  palliatives  with  the  ill-humors  which  were  an- 
nounced to  me.  Reynolds  had  called  upon  me  in 
one  of  these  discontented  moods,  real  or  pretended. 
I  was  unwilling  to  provoke  him  by  the  appearance 
of  neglect,  and  having  failed  to  be  at  home  at  the 
hour  he  had  been  permitted  to  call,  I  wrote  her  the 
above  note  to  obviate  an  ill  impression. 

The  foregoing  narrative  and  the  remarks  accom- 
panying it  have  prepared  the  way  for  a  perusal  of 
the  letters  themselves.  The  more  attention  is  used 
in  this,  the  more  entire  will  be  the  satisfaction  which 
they  will  afford. 

It  has  been  seen  that  an  explanation  on  the  sub- 
ject was  had  contemporarily,  that  is,  in  December, 
1792,  with  three  members  of  Congress, — F.  A.  Muh- 
lenburg,  J.  Monroe,  and  A.  Venable.  It  is  proper 
that  the  circumstances  of  this  transaction  should  be 
accurately  understood. 

The  manner  in  which  Mr.  Muhlenburg  became  en- 
gaged in  the  affair  is  fully  set  forth  in  the  document 


398  Alexander  Hamilton 

(No.  I.,  a).  It  is  not  equally  clear  how  the  two  other 
gentlemen  came  to  embark  in  it.  The  phraseology, 
in  reference  to  this  point,  in  the  close  of  No.  I.  and 
beginning  of  No.  II.  is  rather  equivocal.  The  gen- 
tlemen, if  they  please,  can  explain  it. 

But  on  the  morning  of  the  1 5th  of  December,  1792, 
the  above-mentioned  gentlemen  presented  them- 
selves at  my  office.  Mr.  Muhlenburg  was  then 
speaker.  He  introduced  the  subject  by  observing  to 
me  that  they  had  discovered  a  very  improper  connec- 
tion between  me  and  a  Mr.  Reynolds ;  extremely  hurt 
by  this  mode  of  introduction,  I  arrested  the  progress 
of  the  discourse  by  giving  way  to  very  strong  ex- 
pressions of  indignation.  The  gentlemen  explained, 
telling  me  in  substance  that  I  had  misapprehended 
them ;  that  they  did  not  take  the  fact  for  established ; 
that  their  meaning  was  to  apprise  me  that,  unsought 
by  them,  information  had  been  given  them  of  an 
improper  pecuniary  connection  between  Mr.  Rey- 
nolds and  myself;  that  they  had  thought  it  their 
duty  to  pursue  it,  and  had  become  possessed  of  some 
documents  of  a  suspicious  complexion;  that  they 
had  contemplated  laying  the  matter  before  the 
President,  but  before  they  did  this  they  thought  it 
right  to  apprise  me  of  the  affair  and  to  afford  an  op- 
portunity of  explanation;  declaring  at  the  same 
time  that  their  agency  in  the  matter  was  influenced 
solely  by  a  sense  of  public  duty  and  by  no  motive 
of  personal  ill-will.  If  my  memory  be  correct,  the 
notes  from  me  in  a  disguised  hand  were  now  shown 
to  me,  which  without  a  moment's  hesitation  I  ac- 
knowledged to  be  mine. 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  399 

I  replied,  that  the  affair  was  now  put  upon  a  differ- 
ent footing — that  I  always  stood  ready  to  meet  fair 
inquiry  with  frank  communication — that  it  hap- 
pened, in  the  present  instance,  to  be  in  my  power  by 
written  documents  to  remove  all  doubts  as  to  the 
real  nature  of  the  business,  and  fully  to  convince 
that  nothing  of  the  kind  imputed  to  me  did  in  fact 
exist.  The  same  evening  at  my  house  was  by  mu- 
tual consent  appointed  for  an  explanation. 

I  immediately  after  saw  Mr.  Wolcott,  and  for  the 
first  time  informed  him  of  the  affair  and  of  the  inter- 
view just  had;  and  delivering  into  his  hands  for 
perusal  the  documents  of  which  I  was  possessed,  I 
engaged  him  to  be  present  at  the  intended  explana- 
tion in  the  evening. 

In  the  evening  the  proposed  meeting  took  place, 
and  Mr.  Wolcott  according  to  my  request  attended. 
The  information,  which  had  been  received  to  that 
time,  from  Clingman,  Reynolds,  and  his  wife,  had 
been  communicated  to  me,  and  the  notes  were  I 
think  again  exhibited. 

I  stated  in  explanation,  the  circumstances  of  my 
affair  with  Mrs.  Reynolds  and  the  consequence  of  it, 
and  in  confirmation  produced  the  documents  No.  I., 
6,  to  XXII.  One  or  more  of  the  gentlemen  (Mr. 
Wolcott 's  certificate  No.  XXIV.  mentions  one,  Mr. 
Venable,  but  I  think  the  same  may  be  said  of 
Mr.  Muhlenburg)  were  struck  with  so  much  convic- 
tion, before  I  had  gotten  through  the  communica- 
tion, that  they  delicately  urged  me  to  discontinue  it 
as  unnecessary.  I  insisted  upon  going  through  the 
whole,  and  did  so.  The  result  was  a  full  and 


400  Alexander  Hamilton 

unequivocal  acknowledgment  on  the  part  of  the  three 
gentlemen  of  perfect  satisfaction  with  the  explana- 
tion, and  expressions  of  regret  at  the  trouble  and 
embarrassment  which  had  been  occasioned  to  me. 
Mr.  Muhlenburg  and  Mr.  Venable,  in  particular, 
manifested  a  degree  of  sensibility  on  the  occasion. 
Mr.  Monroe  was  more  cold  but  entirely  explicit. 

One  of  the  gentlemen,  I  think,  expressed  a  hope 
that  I  also  was  satisfied  with  their  conduct  in  con- 
ducting the  inquiry.  I  answered  that  they  knew  I 
had  been  hurt  at  the  opening  of  the  affair ;  that,  this 
excepted,  I  was  satisfied  with  their  conduct,  and 
considered  myself  as  having  been  treated  with  can- 
dor or  with  fairness  and  liberality.  I  do  not  now 
pretend  to  recollect  the  exact  terms.  I  took  the  next 
morning  a  memorandum  of  the  substance  of  what 
was  said  to  me,  which  will  be  seen  by  a  copy  of  it 
transmitted  in  a  letter  to  each  of  the  gentlemen — 
No.  XXV. 

I  deny  absolutely,  as  alleged  by  the  editor  of  the 
publication  in  question,  that  I  entreated  a  suspension 
of  the  communication  to  the  President,  or  that  from 
the  beginning  to  the  end  of  the  inquiry  I  asked  any 
favor  or  indulgence  whatever,  and  that  I  discovered 
any  symptom  different  from  that  of  a  proud  con- 
sciousness of  innocence. 

Some  days  after  the  explanation  I  wrote  to  the 
three  gentlemen  the  letter  No.  XXVI.,  already  pub- 
lished. That  letter  evinces  the  light  in  which  I  con- 
sidered myself  as  standing  in  their  view. 

I  received  from  Mr.  Muhlenburg  and  Mr.  Monroe 
in  answer  the  letters  Nos.  XXVII.  and  XXVIII. 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  401 

Thus  the  affair  remained  till  the  pamphlets  Nos. 
V.  and  VI.  of  the  History  of  the  United  States  for  1796 
appeared,  with  the  exception  of  some  dark  whispers, 
which  were  communicated  to  me  by  a  friend  in  Vir- 
ginia, and  to  which  I  replied  by  a  statement  of  what 
had  passed. 

When  I  saw  No.  V.,  though  it  was  evidence  of  base 
infidelity  somewhere,  yet  firmly  believing  that  no- 
thing more  than  a  want  of  due  care  was  chargeable 
upon  either  of  the  three  gentlemen  who  had  made 
the  inquiry,  I  immediately  wrote  to  each  of  them  a 
letter,  of  which  No.  XXV.  is  a  copy,  in  full  confidence 
that  their  answer  would  put  the  whole  business  at 
rest.  I  ventured  to  believe,  from  the  appearances 
on  their  part  at  closing  our  former  interview  on  the 
subject,  that  their  answers  would  have  been  both 
cordial  and  explicit. 

I  acknowledge  that  I  was  astonished  when  I  came 
to  read  in  the  pamphlet  No.  VI.  the  conclusion  of  the 
document  No.  V.,  containing  the  equivocal  phrase: 
11  We  left  him  under  an  impression  our  suspicions  were 
removed,11  which  seemed  to  imply  that  this  had  been 
a  mere  piece  of  management,  and  that  the  impression 
given  me  had  not  been  reciprocal.  The  appearance 
of  duplicity  incensed  me;  but  resolving  to  proceed 
with  caution  and  moderation,  I  thought  the  first 
proper  step  was  to  inquire  of  the  gentlemen  whether 
the  paper  was  genuine.  A  letter  was  written  for 
this  purpose,  the  copy  of  which  I  have  mislaid. 

I  afterward  received  from  Messrs.  Muhlenburg  and 
Venable  the  letters  Nos.  XXIX.,  XXX.,  and  XXXI. 

Receiving  no  answer  from  Mr.  Monroe,  and  hearing 

VOL.  VII. — 26. 


402  Alexander  Hamilton 

of  his  arrival  at  New  York,  I  called  upon  him.  The 
issue  of  the  interview  was  that  an  answer  was  to 
be  given  by  him,  in  conjunction  with  Mr.  Muhlen- 
burg  and  Mr.  Venable,  on  his  return  to  Philadelphia, 
he  thinking  that,  as  the  agency  had  been  joint,  it 
was  most  proper  the  answer  should  be  joint,  and  in- 
forming me  that  Mr.  Venable  had  told  him  he  would 
wait  his  return. 

I  came  to  Philadelphia  accordingly  to  bring  the 
affair  to  a  close;  but  upon  my  arrival  I  found  Mr. 
Venable  had  left  the  city  for  Virginia. 

Mr.  Monroe  reached  Philadelphia  according  to  his 
appointment.  And  the  morning  following  wrote  me 
the  note  No.  XXXII.  While  this  note  was  on  its 
way  to  my  lodgings,  I  was  on  my  way  to  his.  I  had 
a  conversation  with  him,  from  which  we  separated 
with  a  repetition  of  the  assurance  in  the  note.  In 
the  course  of  the  interviews  with  Mr.  Monroe  the 
equivoque  in  document  No.  V.  (a)  and  the  paper 
of  January  2,  1793,  under  his  signature,  were 
noticed. 

I  received  the  day  following  the  letter  No. 
XXXIII. ,  to  which  I  returned  the  answer  No. 
XXXIV.,  accompanied  with  the  letter  No.  XXXV., 
which  was  succeeded  by  the  letters  Nos.  XXXVI. , 
XXXVII.,  XXXVIIL,  XXXIX.,  XL.  In  due  time 
the  sequel  of  the  correspondence  will  appear. 

Though  extremely  disagreeable  to  me,  for  very 
obvious  reasons,  I  at  length  determined,  in  order 
that  no  cloud  whatever  might  be  left  on  the  affair,  to 
publish  the  documents  which  had  been  communi- 
cated to  Messrs.  Monroe,  Muhlenburg,  and  Venable, 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  403 

all  which  will  be  seen  in  the  appendix  from  No.  I. 
(b)  to  No.  XXII.  inclusively. 

The  information  from  Clingman  of  the  2d  of  Janu- 
ary, 1793,  to  which  the  signature  of  Mr.  Monroe  is 
annexed,  seems  to  require  an  observation  or  two  in 
addition  to  what  is  contained  in  my  letter  to  him 
No.  XXXIX. 

Clingman  first  suggests  that  he  had  been  apprised 
of  my  vindication  through  Mr.  Wolcott  a  day  or  two 
after  it  had  been  communicated.  It  did  not  occur 
to  me  to  inquire  of  Mr.  Wolcott  on  this  point,  and 
he  being  now  absent  from  Philadelphia,  I  cannot  do 
it  at  this  moment.  Though  I  can  have  no  doubt  of 
the  friendly  intention  of  Mr.  Wolcott,  if  the  sugges- 
tion of  Clingman  in  this  particular  be  taken  as  true, 
yet  from  the  condition  of  secrecy  which  was  annexed 
to  my  communication,  there  is  the  strongest  reason 
to  conclude  it  is  not  true.  If  not  true,  there  is  be- 
sides but  one  of  two  solutions,  either  that  he  obtained 
the  information  from  one  of  the  three  gentlemen 
who  made  the  inquiry,  which  would  have  been  a  very 
dishonorable  act  in  the  party,  or  that  he  conjectured 
what  my  defence  was  from  what  he  before  knew  it 
truly  could  be.  For  there  is  the  highest  probability, 
that  through  Reynolds  and  his  wife,  and  as  an  accom- 
plice, he  was  privy  to  the  whole  affair.  This  last 
method  of  accounting  for  his  knowledge  would  be 
conclusive  on  the  sincerity  and  genuineness  of  the 
defence. 

But  the  turn  which  Clingman  gives  to  the  matter 
must  necessarily  fall  to  the  ground.  It  is,  that  Mrs. 
Reynolds  denied  her  amorous  connection  with  me, 


Alexander  Hamilton 

and  represented  the  suggestion  of  it  as  a  mere  con- 
trivance between  her  husband  and  myself  to  cover  me, 
alleging  that  there  had  been  a  fabrication  of  letters 
and  receipts  to  countenance  it.  The  plain  answer 
is  that  Mrs.  Reynolds'  own  letters  contradict  abso- 
lutely this  artful  explanation  of  hers;  if  indeed  she 
ever  made  it,  of  which  Clingman's  assertion  is  no 
evidence  whatever.  These  letters  are  proved  by  the 
affidavit  No.  XLL,  though  it  will  easily  be  conceived 
that  the  proof  of  them  was  rendered  no  easy  matter 
by  a  lapse  of  near  five  years.  They  show  explicitly 
the  connection  with  her,  the  discovery  of  it  by  her 
husband,  and  the  pains  she  took  to  prolong  it  when 
I  evidently  wished  to  get  rid  of  it.  This  cuts  up,  by 
the  root,  the  pretence  of  a  contrivance  between  the 
husband  and  myself  to  fabricate  the  evidence  of  it. 
The  variety  of  shapes  which  this  woman  could 
assume  was  endless.  In  a  conversation  between  her 
and  a  gentleman  whom  I  am  not  at  liberty  publicly 
to  name,  she  made  a  voluntary  confession  of  her  be- 
lief and  even  knowledge,  that  I  was  innocent  of  all 
that  had  been  laid  to  my  charge  by  Reynolds  or  any 
other  person  of  her  acquaintance,  spoke  of  me  in 
exalted  terms  of  esteem  and  respect,  declared  in  the 
most  solemn  manner  her  extreme  unhappiness  lest  I 
should  suppose  her  accessory  to  the  trouble  which 
had  been  given  me  on  that  account,  and  expressed 
her  fear  that  the  resentment  of  Mr.  Reynolds  on  a 
particular  score  might  have  urged  him  to  improper 
lengths  of  revenge — appearing  at  the  same  time  ex- 
tremely agitated  and  unhappy.  With  the  gentleman 
who  gives  this  information,  I  have  never  been  in  any 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  405 

relation  personal  or  political  that  could  be  supposed 
to  bias  him.  His  name  would  evince  that  he  is  an 
impartial  witness.  And  though  I  am  not  permitted 
to  make  a  public  use  of  it,  I  am  permitted  to  refer 
any  gentleman  to  the  perusal  of  his  letter  in  the 
hands  of  William  Bingham,  Esquire;  who  is  also  so 
obliging  as  to  permit  me  to  deposit  with  him  for 
similar  inspection  all  the  original  papers  which  are 
contained  in  the  appendix  to  this  narrative.  The 
letter  from  the  gentleman  above  alluded  to  has  been 
already  shown  to  Mr.  Monroe. 

Let  me  now,  in  the  last  place,  recur  to  some  com- 
ments, in  which  the  hireling  editor  of  the  pamphlets 
Nos.  V.  and  VI.  has  thought  fit  to  indulge  himself. 

The  first  of  them  is  that  the  soft  language  of  one 
of  my  notes  addressed  to  a  man  in  the  habit  of 
threatening  me  with  disgrace,  is  incompatible  with 
the  idea  of  innocence.  The  threats  alluded  to  must 
be  those  of  being  able  to  hang  the  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury.  How  does  it  appear  that  Reynolds  was 
in  such  a  habit?  No  otherwise  than  by  the  declara- 
tion of  Reynolds  and  Clingman.  If  the  assertions  of 
these  men  are  to  condemn  me,  there  is  an  end  of  the 
question.  There  is  no  need  by  elaborate  deductions 
from  parts  of  their  assertions  to  endeavor  to  estab- 
lish what  their  assertions  collectively  affirm  in  ex- 
press terms.  If  they  are  worthy  of  credit  I  am 
guilty;  if  they  are  not,  all  wire-drawn  inferences 
from  parts  of  their  story  are  mere  artifice  and  non- 
sense. But  no  man,  not  as  debauched  as  themselves, 
will  believe  them  independent  of  the  positive  dis- 
proof of  their  story  in  the  written  documents. 


406  Alexander  Hamilton 

As  to  the  affair  of  threats  (except  those  in  Rey- 
nolds' letters  respecting  the  connection  with  his 
wife,  which,  it  will  be  perceived,  were  very  gentle 
for  the  occasion,)  not  the  least  idea  of  the  sort  ever 
reached  me  till  after  the  imprisonment  of  Reynolds. 
Mr.  Wolcott 's  certificate  shows  my  conduct  in  that 
case, — notwithstanding  the  powerful  motives  I  may 
be  presumed  to  have  had  to  desire  the  liberation  of 
Reynolds,  on  account  of  my  situation  with  his  wife, 
I  cautioned  Mr.  Wolcott  not  to  facilitate  his  libera- 
tion till  the  affair  of  the  threat  was  satisfactorily 
cleared  up.  The  solemn  denial  of  it  in  Reynolds' 
letter  No.  XLII.  was  considered  by  Mr.  Wolcott  as 
sufficient.  This  is  a  further  proof  that,  though  in 
respect  to  my  situation  with  his  wife  I  was  some- 
what in  Reynolds'  power,  I  was  not  disposed  to 
make  any  improper  concession  to  the  apprehension 
of  his  resentment. 

As  to  the  threats  intimated  in  his  letters,  the 
nature  of  the  cause  will  show  that  the  soft  tone  of 
my  note  was  not  only  compatible  with  them,  but  a 
natural  sequence  of  them. 

But  it  is  observed  that  the  dread  of  the  disclosure 
of  an  amorous  connection  was  not  a  sufficient  cause 
for  my  humility,  and  that  I  had  nothing  to  lose  as 
to  my  reputation  for  chastity ;  concerning  which  the 
world  had  fixed  a  previous  opinion. 

I  shall  not  enter  into  the  question  what  was  the 
previous  opinion  entertained  of  me  in  this  particular 
— nor  how  well  founded,  for  it  was  indeed  such  as 
it  is  represented  to  have  been.  It  is  sufficient  to 
say  that  there  is  a  wide  difference  between  vague 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  407 

rumors  and  suspicions  and  the  evidence  of  a  positive 
fact.  No  man  not  indelicately  unprincipled,  with 
the  state  of  manners  in  this  country,  would  be  willing 
to  have  a  conjugal  infidelity  fixed  upon  him  with 
positive  certainty.  He  would  know  that  it  would 
justly  injure  him  with  a  considerable  and  respectable 
portion  of  the  society;  and  especially  no  man,  tender 
of  the  happiness  of  an  excellent  wife,  could,  without 
extreme  pain,  look  forward  to  the  affliction  which 
she  might  endure  from  the  disclosure,  especially  a 
public  disclosure  of  the  fact.  Those  best  acquainted 
with  the  interior  of  my  domestic  life  will  best  appre- 
ciate the  force  of  such  a  consideration  upon  me. 

The  truth  was,  that  in  both  relations,  and  espe- 
cially the  last,  I  dreaded  extremely  a  disclosure — and 
was  willing  to  make  large  sacrifices  to  avoid  it.  It 
is  true  that,  from  the  acquiescence  of  Reynolds,  I 
had  strong  ties  upon  his  secrecy,  but  how  could  I 
rely  upon  any  tie  upon  so  base  a  character.  How 
could  I  know,  but  that  from  moment  to  moment  he 
might,  at  the  expense  of  his  own  disgrace,  become 
the  mercenary  of  a  party  with  whom  to  blast  my 
character  in  any  way  is  a  favorite  object. 

Strong  inferences  are  attempted  to  be  drawn  from 
the  release  of  Clingman  and  Reynolds  with  the  con- 
sent of  the  Treasury — from  the  want  of  communi- 
cativeness of  Reynolds  while  in  prison — from  the 
subsequent  disappearance  of  Reynolds  and  his 
wife,  and  from  their  not  having  been  produced  by 
me  in  order  to  be  confronted  at  the  time  of  the 
explanation. 

As  to  the  first,  it  was  emphatically  the  transaction 


408  Alexander  Hamilton 

of  Mr.  Wolcott,  the  then  Comptroller  of  the  Treasury, 
and  was  bottomed  upon  a  very  adequate  motive— 
and  one,  as  appears  from  the  document  No.  I.  (a), 
early  contemplated  in  this  light  by  that  officer.  It 
was  certainly  of  more  consequence  to  the  public  to 
detect  and  expel  from  the  bosom  of  the  Treasury 
Department  an  unfaithful  clerk  to  prevent  future  and 
extensive  mischief,  than  to  disgrace  and  punish  two 
worthless  individuals.  Besides  that,  a  powerful  in- 
fluence foreign  to  me  was  exerted  to  procure  indul- 
gence to  them — that  of  Mr.  Muhlenburg  and  Col. 
Burr — that  of  Col.  Wadsworth,  which,  though  in- 
sidiously placed  to  my  account,  was,  to  the  best  of 
my  recollection,  utterly  unknown  to  me  at  that 
time,  and,  according  to  the  confession  of  Mrs.  Rey- 
nolds herself,  was  put  in  motion  by  her  entreaty. 
Candid  men  will  derive  strong  evidence  of  my  inno- 
cence and  delicacy  from  the  reflection,  that  under 
circumstances  so  peculiar,  the  culprits  were  com- 
pelled to  give  a  real  and  substantial  equivalent  for 
the  relief  which  they  obtained  from  a  department 
over  which  I  presided. 

The  backwardness  of  Reynolds  to  enter  into  de- 
tail, while  in  jail,  was  an  argument  of  nothing  but 
that,  conscious  of  his  inability  to  communicate  any 
particulars  which  could  be  supported,  he  found  it 
more  convenient  to  deal  in  generals,  and  to  keep  up 
appearances  by  giving  promises  for  the  future. 

As  to  the  disappearance  of  the  parties  after  the 
liberation,  how  am  I  answerable  for  it?  Is  it  not 
presumable  that  the  instance  discovered  at  the 
Treasury  was  not  the  only  offence  of  the  kind  of 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  409 

which  they  were  guilty?  After  one  detection,  is  it 
not  very  probable  that  Reynolds  fled  to  avoid  de- 
tection in  other  cases?  But  exclusive  of  this,  it  is 
known,  and  might  easily  be  proved,  that  Reynolds 
was  considerably  in  debt!  What  more  natural  for 
him  than  to  fly  from  his  creditors  after  having  been 
once  exposed  by  confinement  for  such  a  crime? 
Moreover,  atrocious  as  his  conduct  had  been  toward 
me,  was  it  not  natural  for  him  to  fear  that  my  re- 
sentment might  be  excited  at  the  discovery  of  it,  and 
that  it  might  have  been  deemed  a  sufficient  reason 
for  retracting  the  indulgence  which  was  shown  by 
withdrawing  the  prosecution  and  for  recommencing 
it? 

One  or  all  of  these  considerations  will  explain 
the  disappearance  of  Reynolds  without  imputing 
it  to  me  as  a  method  of  getting  rid  of  a  dangerous 
witness. 

That  disappearance  rendered  it  impracticable,  if 
it  had  been  desired,  to  bring  him  forward  to  be  con- 
fronted. As  to  Clingman  it  was  not  pretended  that 
he  knew  any  thing  of  what  was  charged  upon  me, 
otherwise  than  by  the  notes  which  he  produced,  and 
the  information  of  Reynolds  and  his  wife.  As  to 
Mrs.  Reynolds,  she  in  fact  appears  by  Clingman 's 
last  story  to  have  remained,  and  to  have  been  ac- 
cessible, through  him,  by  the  gentlemen  who  had 
undertaken  the  inquiry.  If  they  supposed  it  neces- 
sary to  the  elucidation  of  the  affair,  why  did  not  they 
bring  her  forward?  There  can  be  no  doubt  of  the 
sufficiency  of  Clingman 's  influence  for  this  purpose, 
when  it  is  understood  that  Mrs.  Reynolds  and  he 


410  Alexander  Hamilton 

afterward  lived  together  as  man  and  wife.  But  to 
what  purpose  the  confronting?  What  would  it  have 
availed  to  the  elucidation  of  truth  if  Reynolds  and 
his  wife  had  impudently  made  allegations  which  I 
denied?  Relative  character  and  the  written  docu- 
ments must  still  determine.  These  could  decide 
without  it,  and  they  were  relied  upon.  But  could 
it  be  expected  that  I  should  so  debase  myself  as 
to  think  it  necessary  to  my  vindication  to  be  con- 
fronted with  a  person  such  as  Reynolds?  Could  I 
have  borne  to  suffer  my  veracity  to  be  exposed  to 
the  humiliating  competition  ? 

For  what? — why,  it  is  said,  to  tear  up  the  last  twig 
of  jealousy — but  when  I  knew  that  I  possessed 
written  documents  which  were  decisive,  how  could  I 
foresee  that  any  twig  of  jealousy  would  remain? 
When  the  proofs  I  did  produce  to  the  gentlemen 
were  admitted  by  them  to  be  completely  satisfactory, 
and  by  some  of  them  to  be  more  than  sufficient,  how 
could  I  dream  of  the  expediency  of  producing  more 
—how  could  I  imagine  that  every  twig  of  jealousy 
was  not  plucked  up? 

If,  after  the  recent  confessions  of  the  gentlemen 
themselves,  it  could  be  useful  to  fortify  the  proof  of 
the  full  conviction  my  explanation  had  wrought,  I 
might  appeal  to  the  total  silence  concerning  this 
charge,  when  at  a  subsequent  period,  in  the  year 
1793,  there  was  such  an  active  legislative  persecution 
of  me. 

It  might  not  even  perhaps  be  difficult  to  establish 
that  it  came  under  the  eye  of  Mr.  Giles,  and  that  he 
discarded  it  as  the  plain  case  of  a  private  amour  un- 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  411 

connected  with  any  thing  that  was  the  proper  sub- 
ject of  a  public  attack. 

Thus  has  my  desire  to  destroy  this  slander  com- 
pletely led  me  to  a  more  copious  and  particular  ex- 
amination of  it,  than  I  am  sure  was  necessary.  The 
bare  perusal  of  the  letters  from  Reynolds  and  his 
wife  is  sufficient  to  convince  my  greatest  enemy  that 
there  is  nothing  worse  in  the  affair  than  an  irregular 
and  indelicate  amour.  For  this,  I  bow  to  the  just 
censure  which  it  merits.  I  have  paid  pretty  severely 
for  the  folly,  and  can  never  recollect  it  without  dis- 
gust and  self-condemnation.  It  might  seem  affecta- 
tion to  say  more. 

To  unfold  more  clearly  the  malicious  intent  by 
which  the  present  revival  of  the  affair  must  have 
been  influenced,  I  shall  annex  an  affidavit  of  Mr. 
Webster,  tending  to  confirm  my  declaration  of  the 
utter  falsehood  of  the  assertion,  that  a  menace  of 
publishing  the  papers  which  have  been  published 
had  arrested  the  progress  of  an  attempt  to  hold  me 
up  as  a  candidate  for  the  office  of  President.  Does 
this  editor  imagine  that  he  will  escape  the  just 
odium  which  awaits  him,  by  the  miserable  subterfuge 
of  saying  that  he  had  the  information  from  a  re- 
spectable citizen  of  New  York?  Till  he  names  the 
author  the  inevitable  inference  must  be  that  he  has 
fabricated  the  tale. 

ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

PHILADELPHIA,  July,  1797. 


412  Alexander  Hamilton 

APPENDIX 
NO.  i.   (a) 

PHILADELPHIA,  i3th  of  December,  1792. 

Jacob  Clingman  being  a  clerk  in  my  employment, 
and  becoming  involved  in  a  prosecution  commenced 
against  James  Reynolds,  by  the  Comptroller  of  the 
Treasury,  on  a  charge  of  information  exhibited  be- 
fore Hillary  Baker,  Esq.,  one  of  the  aldermen  of  this 
city,  for  subornation  of  perjury,  whereby  they  had 
obtained  money  from  the  treasury  of  the  United 
States,  he  (Clingman)  applied  to  me  for  my  aid  and 
friendship  on  behalf  of  himself  and  Reynolds,  to  get 
them  released  or  discharged  from  the  prosecution. 
I  promised,  so  far  as  respected  Clingman,  but,  not 
being  particularly  acquainted  with  Reynolds,  in  a 
great  measure  declined,  so  far  as  respected  him.  In 
company  with  Col.  Burr,  I  waited  on  Col.  Hamilton 
for  the  purpose,  and  particularly  recommended 
Clingman,  who  had  hitherto  sustained  a  good  char- 
acter. Col.  Hamilton  signified  a  wish  to  do  all  that 
was  consistent.  Shortly  after,  I  waited  on  the 
Comptroller,  for  the  same  purpose,  who  seemed  to 
have  some  difficulties  on  the  subject;  and  from 
some  information  I  had,  in  the  mean  time,  received, 
I  could  not  undertake  to  recommend  Reynolds,  as  I 
verily  believed  him  to  be  a  rascal;  which  words  I 
made  use  of  to  the  Comptroller.  In  a  second  inter- 
view with  the  Comptroller,  on  the  same  subject,  the 
latter  urged  the  propriety  of  Clingman 's  delivering 
up  a  certain  list  of  money  due  to  individuals,  which 
Reynolds  and  Clingman  were  said  to  have  in  their 
possession,  and  of  his  informing  him  of  whom,  or 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  413 

through  whom,  the  same  was  obtained  from  the 
public  offices;  on  doing  which,  Clingman 's  request 
might,  perhaps,  be  granted  with  greater  propriety. 
This,  Clingman,  I  am  informed,  complied  with,  and 
also  refunded  the  money,  or  certificates,  which  they 
had  improperly  obtained  from  the  treasury.  After 
which,  I  understand  the  action  against  both  was 
withdrawn,  and  Reynolds  discharged  from  imprison- 
ment, without  any  further  interference  of  mine 
whatsoever.  During  the  time  this  business  was  thus 
depending,  and  which  lasted  upwards  of  three  weeks, 
Clingman,  unasked,  frequently  dropped  hints  to  me, 
that  Reynolds  had  it  in  his  power  very  materially  to 
injure  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  and  that  Rey- 
nolds knew  several  very  improper  transactions  of 
his.  I  paid  little  or  no  attention  to  those  hints,  but 
when  they  were  frequently  repeated,  and  it  was  even 
added  that  Reynolds  said  he  had  it  in  his  power  to 
hang  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  that  he  was 
deeply  concerned  in  speculation,  that  he  had  fre- 
quently advanced  money  to  him  (Reynolds),  and 
other  insinuations  of  an  improper  nature,  it  created 
considerable  uneasiness  on  my  mind,  and  I  conceived 
it  my  duty  to  consult  with  some  friends  on  the  sub- 
ject. Mr.  Monroe  and  Mr.  Venable  were  informed 
of  it  yesterday  morning. 

Signed  by  MR.  MUHLENBURG. 


NO.  ii.  (a) 

PHILADELPHIA,  December  13,  1792. 

Being  informed  yesterday,  in  the  morning,  that 
a  person  of  the  name  of  Reynolds,  from  Virginia 


414  Alexander  Hamilton 

(Richmond),  was  confined  in  jail  upon  some  criminal 
prosecution  relative  to  certificates,  and  that  he  had 
intimated  he  could  give  some  intelligence  of  specula- 
tions of  Mr.  Hamilton  which  should  be  known,  we 
immediately  called  on  him,  as  well  to  be  informed  of 
the  situation  of  the  man,  as  of  those  other  matters 
in  which  the  public  might  be  interested.  We  found 
it  was  not  the  person  we  had  been  taught  to  believe, 
but  a  man  of  that  name  from  New  York,  and  who 
had,  for  some  time  past,  resided  in  this  city.  Being 
there,  however,  we  questioned  him  respecting  the 
other  particular;  he  informed  us  that  he  could  give 
information  of  the  misconduct,  in  that  respect,  of  a 
person  high  in  office,  but  must  decline  it  for  the 
present  and  until  relieved,  which  was  promised  him 
that  evening:  that,  at  ten  to-day,  he  would  give  us 
a  detail  of  whatever  he  knew  on  the  subject.  He 
affirmed  he  had  a  person  in  high  office  in  his  power, 
and  has  had  a  long  time  past.  That  he  had  written 
to  him  in  terms  so  abusive  that  no  person  should 
have  submitted  to  it,  but  that  he  dared  not  to  resent 
it.  That  Mr.  Wolcott  was  in  the  same  department, 
and,  he  supposed,  under  his  influence  or  control. 
And,  in  fact,  expressed  himself  in  such  a  manner  as 
to  leave  no  doubt  he  meant  Mr.  Hamilton.  That  he 
expected  to  be  relieved  by  Mr.  Wolcott  at  the  in- 
stance of  that  person,  although  he  believed  that 
Mr.  Wolcott,  in  instituting  the  prosecution,  had  no 
improper  design.  That  he  was  satisfied  the  prosecu- 
tion was  set  on  foot  only  to  keep  him  low  and  op- 
press him,  and  ultimately  drive  him  away,  in  order 
to  prevent  his  using  the  power  he  had  over  him ;  that 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  415 

he  had  had,  since  his  residence  here  for  eighteen 
months,  many  private  meetings  with  that  person, 
who  had  often  promised  to  put  him  into  employment, 
but  had  disappointed  him.  That,  on  hearing  the 
prosecution  was  commenced  against  him,  he  applied 
to  this  person  for  counsel,  who  advised  him  to  keep 
out  of  the  way  for  a  few  days.  That  a  merchant 
came  to  him  and  offered,  as  a  volunteer,  to  be  his 
bail,  who,  he  suspects,  had  been  instigated  by  this 
person,  and,  after  being  decoyed  to  the  place  the 
merchant  wished  to  carry  him,  he  refused  being  his 
bail  unless  he  would  deposit  a  sum  of  money  to 
some  considerable  amount,  which  he  could  not  do, 
and  was,  in  consequence,  committed  to  prison.  As 
well  as  we  remember,  he  gave  as  a  reason  why  he 
could  not  communicate  to  us  what  he  knew  of  the 
facts  alluded  to,  that  he  was  apprehensive  it  might 
prevent  his  discharge,  but  that  he  would  certainly 
communicate  the  whole  to  us  at  ten  this  morning, 
at  which  time,  we  were  informed,  he  had  absconded 
or  concealed  himself. 
Signed  by 
JAMES  MONROE  and  ABRAHAM  VENABLE. 


NO.  in.  (a) 

PHILADELPHIA,  December  13,  1792. 

Being  desirous,  on  account  of  their  equivocal  com- 
plexion, to  examine  into  the  suggestions  which  had 
been  made  us  respecting  the  motive  for  the  confine- 
ment and  proposed  enlargement  of  James  Reynolds, 
from  the  jail  of  this  city,  and  inclined  to  suspect,  for 


4i 6  Alexander  Hamilton 

the  same  reason,  that,  unless  it  were  immediately 
done,  the  opportunity  would  be  lost,  as  we  were 
taught  to  suspect  he  would  leave  the  place  im- 
mediately after  his  discharge,  we  called  at  his  house 
last  night  for  that  purpose ;  we  found  Mrs.  Reynolds 
alone.  It  was  with  difficulty  we  obtained  from  her 
any  information  on  the  subject,  but  at  length  she 
communicated  to  us  the  following  particulars  : 

That  since  Col.  Hamilton  was  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury,  and  at  his  request  she  had  burned  a  con- 
siderable number  of  letters  from  him  to  her  husband, 
and  in  the  absence  of  the  latter,  touching  business 
between  them,  to  prevent  their  being  made  public; 
she  also  mentioned  that  Mr.  Clingman  had  several 
anonymous  notes  addressed  to  her  husband,  which, 
she  believed,  were  from  Mr.  Hamilton  (which  we 
have),  with  an  endorsement  "from  Secretary  Ham- 
ilton, Esq.,"  in  Mr.  Reynolds'  handwriting:  That 
Mr.  Hamilton  offered  her  his  assistance  to  go  to  her 
friends,  which  he  advised :  That  he  also  advised  that 
her  husband  should  leave  these  parts,  not  to  be  seen 
here  again,  and  in  which  case  he  would  give  some- 
thing clever.  That  she  was  satisfied  this  wish  for 
his  departure  did  not  proceed  from  friendship  to 
him,  but  upon  account  of  his  threat,  that  he  could 
tell  something  that  would  make  some  of  the  heads 
of  departments  tremble.  That  Mr.  Wadsworth  had 
been  active  in  her  behalf,  first  at  her  request;  but, 
in  her  opinion,  with  the  knowledge  and  communica- 
tion of  Mr.  Hamilton,  whose  friend  he  professed  to 
be;  that  he  had  been  at  her  house  yesterday  and 
mentioned  to  her  that  two  gentlemen  of  Congress 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  417 

had  been  at  the  jail  to  confer  with  her  husband, 
enquired  if  she  knew  what  they  went  for,  observed 
he  knew  Mr.  Hamilton  had  enemies  who  would  try 
to  prove  some  speculations  on  him,  but,  when  en- 
quired into,  he  would  be  found  immaculate;  to 
which  she  replied,  she  rather  doubted  it.  We  saw 
in  her  possession  two  notes,  one  in  the  name  of 
Alexander  Hamilton,  of  the  sixth  of  December,  and 
the  other  signed  "  S.  W.,"  purporting  to  have  been 
written  yesterday,  both  expressing  a  desire  to  re- 
lieve her. 

She  denied  any  recent  communication  with  Mr. 
Hamilton,  or  that  she  had  received  any  money  from 
him  lately. 

[Signed]  JAMES  MONROE  and 

F.    A.    MUHLENBURG. 


NO.  iv.  (a) 

PHILADELPHIA,  December  13,  1792. 

Jacob  Clingman  has  been  engaged  in  some  negotia- 
tions with  Mr.  Reynolds,  the  person  who  has  lately 
been  discharged  from  a  prosecution  instituted  against 
him  by  the  Comptroller  of  the  Treasury.  That  his 
acquaintance  commenced  in  September,  1791.  That 
a  mutual  confidence  and  intimacy  existed  between 
them.  That  in  January  or  February  last,  he  saw 
Col.  Hamilton  at  the  house  of  Reynolds;  im- 
mediately on  his  going  into  the  house  Col.  Hamil- 
ton left  it.  That  in  a  few  days  after,  he  (Clingman) 
was  at  Mr.  Reynolds'  house  with  Mrs.  Reynolds,  her 
husband  being  then  out;  some  person  knocked  at 


VOL.  VII.— 17. 


4i 8  Alexander  Hamilton 

the  door;  he  arose  and  opened  it,  and  saw  that  it  was 
Col.  Hamilton.  Mrs.  Reynolds  went  to  the  door;  he 
delivered  a  paper  to  her,  and  that  he  was  ordered  to 
give  Mr.  Reynolds  that,  but  asked  Mrs.  Reynolds  who 
could  order  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  of  the 
United  States  to  give  that;  she  replied  that  she  sup- 
posed he  did  not  want  to  be  known.  This  hap- 
pened in  the  night.  He  asked  her  how  long  Mr. 
Reynolds  had  been  acquainted  with  Col.  Hamilton. 
She  replied  some  months.  That  Col.  Hamilton  had 
assisted  her  husband;  that  some  few  days  before 
that  time  he  had  received  upward  of  eleven  hundred 
dollars  of  Col.  Hamilton.  Some  time  after  this, 
Clingman  was  at  the  house  of  Reynolds,  and  saw 
Col.  Hamilton  come  in;  he  retired  and  left  him  there. 
A  little  after  Duer's  failure,  Reynolds  told  Clingman 
in  confidence  that  if  Duer  had  held  up  three  days 
longer,  he  should  have  made  fifteen  hundred  pounds, 
by  the  assistance  of  Col.  Hamilton;  that  Col.  Hamil- 
ton had  informed  him  that  he  was  connected  with 
Duer.  Mr.  Reynolds  also  said  that  Col.  Hamilton 
had  made  thirty  thousand  dollars  by  speculation; 
that  Col.  Hamilton  had  supplied  him  with  money 
to  speculate.  That  about  June  last,  Reynolds  told 
Clingman  that  he  had  applied  to  Col.  Hamilton  for 
money  to  subscribe  to  the  Turnpike  road  at  Lan- 
caster, and  had  received  a  note  from  him  in  these 
words:  "  It  is  utterly  out  of  my  power,  I  assure  you, 
upon  my  honor,  to  comply  with  your  request.  Your 
note  is  returned."  Which  original  note,  accom- 
panying this,  has  been  in  Clingman 's  possession  ever 
since.  Mr.  Reynolds  has  once  or  twice  mentioned 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  419 

to  Clingman  that  he  had  it  in  his  power  to  hang  Col. 
Hamilton;  that  if  he  wanted  money  he  was  obliged 
to  let  him  have  it.  That  he  (Clingman)  has  oc- 
casionally lent  money  to  Reynolds,  who  always  told 
that  he  could  always  get  it  from  Col.  Hamilton  to 
repay  it.  That  on  one  occasion  Clingman  lent  him 
two  hundred  dollars  that  Reynolds  promised  to  pay 
him  through  the  means  of  Col.  Hamilton,  that  he 
went  with  him,  saw  him  go  into  Col.  Hamilton's; 
that  after  he  came  out  he  paid  him  one  hundred 
dollars,  which,  he  said,  was  part  of  the  sum  he  had 
got,  and  paid  the  balance  in  a  few  days;  the  latter 
sum  paid  was  said  to  have  been  from  Col.  Hamilton, 
after  his  return  from  Jersey,  having  made  a  visit  to 
the  manufacturing  society  there.  After  a  warrant 
was  issued  against  Reynolds,  upon  a  late  prosecu- 
tion, which  was  instituted  against  him,  Clingman, 
seeing  Reynolds,  asked  him  why  he  did  not  apply  to 
his  friend  Col.  Hamilton,  he  said  he  would  go  im- 
mediately, and  went  accordingly;  he  said  afterwards 
that  Col.  Hamilton  advised  him  to  keep  out  of  the 
way,  a  few  days,  and  the  matter  would  be  settled. 
That  after  this  time,  Henry  Seckel  went  to  Reynolds, 
and  offered  to  be  his  bail,  if  he  would  go  with  him  to 
Mr.  Baker's  office,  where  he  had  left  the  officer,  who 
had  the  warrant  in  writing;  that  he  prevailed  on 
Reynolds  to  go  with  him;  that  after  Reynolds  was 
taken  into  custody,  Seckel  refused  to  become  his 
bail,  unless  he  would  deposit,  in  his  possession,  prop- 
erty to  the  value  of  four  hundred  pounds;  upon 
which  Reynolds  wrote  to  Col.  Hamilton,  and  Mr. 
Seckel  carried  the  note;  after  two  or  three  times 


Alexander  Hamilton 

going,  he  saw  Col.  Hamilton;  Col.  Hamilton  said  he 
knew  Reynolds  and  his  father;  that  his  father  was  a 
good  Whig  in  the  late  war;  that  was  all  he  could  say  : 
That  it  was  not  in  his  power  to  assist  him;  in  conse- 
quence of  which,  Seckel  refused  to  be  his  bail,  and 
Reynolds  was  imprisoned.  Mr.  Reynolds  also  ap- 
plied to  a  Mr.  Francis,  who  is  one  of  the  clerks  in  the 
Treasury  Department:  he  said  he  could  not  do  any 
thing,  without  the  consent  of  Mr.  Hamilton;  that 
he  would  apply  to  him.  He  applied  to  Mr.  Hamil- 
ton; who  told  him,  that  it  would  not  be  prudent; 
if  he  did,  he  must  leave  the  department. 

After  Reynolds  was  confined,  Clingman  asked 
Mrs.  Reynolds  why  she  did  not  apply  to  Col.  Hamil- 
ton to  dismiss  him,  as  the  money  was  ready  to  be 
refunded,  that  had  been  received;  she  replied  that 
she  had  applied  to  him,  and  he  had  sent  her  to 
Mr.  Wolcott,  but  directed  her  not  to  let  Mr.  Wol- 
cott  know  that  he  had  sent  her  there ;  notwithstand- 
ing this  injunction,  she  did  let  Mr.  Wolcott  know  by 
whom  she  had  been  sent;  who  appeared  to  be  sur- 
prised at  the  information,  but  said  he  would  do  what 
he  could  for  her,  and  would  consult  Col.  Hamilton 
on  the  occasion.  Col.  Hamilton  advised  her  to  get 
some  person  of  respectability  to  intercede  for  her 
husband,  and  mentioned  Mr.  Muhlenburg. 

Reynolds  continued  to  be  kept  in  custody  for  some 
time.  Clingman  had  conversation  with  Mr.  Wol- 
cott, who  said,  if  he  would  give  up  a  list  of  claims 
which  he  had,  he  should  be  released.  After  this, 
Mrs.  Reynolds  informed  Clingman,  that  Col.  Hamil- 
ton had  told  her,  that  Clingman  should  write  a  letter 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  421 

to  Mr.  Wolcott,  and  a  duplicate  of  the  same  to  him- 
self, promising  to  give  up  the  list  and  refund  the 
money,  which  had  been  obtained  on  a  certificate, 
which  had  been  said  to  have  been  improperly 
obtained. 

Clingman  asked  Mrs.  Reynolds  for  the  letters  that 
her  husband  had  received  from  Col.  Hamilton,  from 
time  to  time,  as  he  might  probably  use  them  to  ob- 
tain her  husband's  liberty.  She  replied,  that  Col. 
Hamilton  had  requested  her  to  burn  all  the  letters 
that  were  in  his  handwriting,  or  that  had  his  name 
to  them;  which  she  had  done;  he  pressed  her  to 
examine  again,  as  she  might  not  have  destroyed  the 
whole,  and  they  would  be  useful ;  she  examined  and 
found  -  -  notes,  which  are  herewith  submitted, 
and  which,  she  said,  were  notes  from  Col.  Hamilton. 

Mrs.  Reynolds  told  Clingman  that  having  heard 
that  her  husband's  father  was  in  the  late  war,  a 
commissary,  under  the  direction  of  Col.  Wads  worth, 
waited  on  him  to  get  him  to  intercede  for  her  hus- 
band's discharge;  he  told  her  he  would  give  her  his 
assistance,  and  said,  now  you  have  made  me  your 
friend,  you  must  apply  to  no  one  else.  That,  on 
Sunday  evening,  Clingman  went  to  the  house  of  Rey- 
nolds and  found  Col.  Wadsworth  there ;  he  was  intro- 
duced to  Col.  Wadsworth  by  Mrs.  Reynolds;  Col. 
Wadsworth  told  him  he  had  seen  Mr.  Wolcott;  that 
Mr.  Wolcott  would  do  any  thing  for  him  (Clingman) 
and  Reynolds'  family,  that  he  could;  that  he  had 
called  on  Col.  Hamilton  but  had  not  seen  him;  but 
he  might  tell  Mr.  Muhlenburg  that  a  friend  of  his 
(Clingman 's)  had  told  him  that  Col.  Wadsworth  was 


422  Alexander  Hamilton 

a  countryman  and  schoolmate  of  Mr.  Ingersoll,  and 
that  Col.  Wadsworth  was  also  intimate  with  the 
governor,  and  that  the  governor  would  do  almost 
any  thing  to  oblige  him ;  that  his  name  must  not  be 
mentioned  to  Mr.  Muhlenburg  as  telling  him  this; 
but  that  if  Mr.  Muhlenburg  could  be  brought  to  speak 
to  him  first  on  the  subject,  he  would  then  do  any 
thing  in  his  power  for  them;  and  told  him  not  to 
speak  to  him,  if  he  should  meet  him  in  the  street,  and 
said,  if  his  name  was  mentioned,  that  he  would  do 
nothing.  That,  on  Wednesday,  Clingman  saw  Col. 
Wadsworth  at  Reynolds'  house;  he  did  not  find  her 
at  home,  but  left  a  note ;  but,  on  going  out,  he  met  her, 
and  said  he  had  seen  everybody  and  done  every  thing. 

Mrs.  Reynolds  told  Clingman  that  she  had  re- 
ceived money  of  Col.  Hamilton,  since  her  husband's 
confinement,  enclosed  in  a  note,  which  note  she  had 
burned. 

After  Reynolds  was  discharged,  which  was  eight 
or  nine  o'clock  on  Wednesday  evening:  about 
twelve  o'clock  at  night,  Mr.  Reynolds  sent  a  letter 
to  Col.  Hamilton  by  a  girl;  Reynolds  followed  the 
girl,  and  Clingman  followed  him;  he  saw  the  girl  go 
into  Col.  Hamilton's  house;  Clingman  then  joined 
Reynolds,  and  they  walked  back  and  forward  in  the 
street  until  the  girl  returned,  and  informed  Reynolds 
that  he  need  not  go  out  of  town  that  night,  but  call 
on  him  early  in  the  morning.  In  the  morning,  be- 
tween seven  and  eight  o'clock,  he  saw  Reynolds  go 
to  Col.  Hamilton's  house  and  go  in;  he  has  not  seen 
him  since,  and  supposes  he  has  gone  out  of  the  State. 

Mr.  Clingman  further  adds,  that,  some  time  ago, 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  423 

he  was  informed  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Reynolds,  that  he 
had  books  containing  the  amount  of  the  cash  due  to 
the  Virginia  line,  at  his  own  house  at  New  York,  with 
liberty  to  copy,  and  was  obtained  thro'  Mr.  Duer. 
The  above  contains  the  truth  to  the  best  of  my 
knowledge  and  recollection,  and  to  which  I  am  ready 
to  make  oath. 

Given  under  my  hand,  this  i3th 
of  December,  1792. 
Signed  by  JACOB  CLINGMAN. 


NO.  I 

COL.  HAMILTON, 

Dear  Sir: — I  have  not  tim  to  tell  you  the  cause 
of  my  present  troubles  only  that  Mr.  has  rote  you 
this  morning  and  I  know  not  wether  you  have  got 
the  letter  or  not  and  he  has  swore  that  If  you  do 
not  answer  It  or  If  he  dose  not  se  or  hear  from  you 
to  day  he  will  write  Mrs.  Hamilton  he  has  just  Gone 
oute  and  I  am  a  Lone  I  think  you  had  better  come 
here  one  moment  that  you  May  know  the  Cause  then 
you  will  the  better  know  how  to  act  Oh  my  God  I 
feel  more  for  you  than  myself  and  wish  I  had  never 
been  born  to  give  you  so  mutch  unhappiness  do  not 
rite  to  him  no  not  a  Line  but  come  here  soon  do  not 
send  or  leave  any  thing  in  his  power  MARIA 


NO.    II 

PHILADELPHIA,  isth  December,  1791. 

SIR: 

I  am  very  sorry  to  find  out  that  I  have  been  so 
Cruelly  treated  by  a  person  that  I  took  to  be  my 


424  Alexander  Hamilton 

best  friend  instead  of  that  my  greatest  Enimy.  You 
have  deprived  me  of  every  thing  thats  near  and  dear 
to  me,  I  disco vred  whenever  I  Came  into  the  house, 
after  being  out  I  found  Mrs.  Reynolds  weeping  I 
ask'd  her  the  Cause  of  being  so  unhappy.  She  always 
told  me  that  she  had  bin  Reding,  and  she  could  not 
help  Crying  when  she  Red  any  thing  that  was  Afect- 
ing.  but  seing  her  Repeatedly  in  that  Setevation  gave 
me  some  suspicion  to  think  that  was  not  the  Cause, 
as  fortain  would  have  it.  before  matters  was  carred 
to  two  great  a  length.  I  discovered  a  letter  directed 
to  you  which  I  copied  of  and  put  it  in  the  place  where 
I  found  it  without  being  discovered  by  Her.  and 
then  the  evening  after.  I  was  Curious  anough  to 
watch  her.  and  see  give  a  leter  to  a  Black  man  in 
Market  Street,  which  I  followed  him  to  your  door, 
after  that  I  Returned  home  some  time  in  the  evening, 
and  I  broached  the  matter  to  her  and  Red  the  Copy 
to  her  which  she  fell  upon  her  knees  and  asked  for- 
giveness and  discovered  every  thing  to  me  Respect- 
ing the  matter  and  ses  that  she  was  unhappy,  and 
not  knowing  what  to  do  without  some  assistance. 
She  called  on  you  for  the  lone  of  some  money,  which 
you  toald  her  you  would  call  on  her  the  Next  Even- 
ing, which  accordingly  you  did.  and  there  Sir  you 
took  the  advantage  a  poor  Broken  harted  woman, 
instead  of  being  a  Friend,  you  have  acted  the  part 
of  the  most  Cruelist  man  in  existance.  you  have 
made  a  whole  family  miserable.  She  ses  there  is 
no  other  man  that  she  Care  for  in  this  world,  now 
Sir  you  have  bin  the  Cause  of  Cooling  her  affections 
for  me.  She  was  a  woman.  I  should  as  soon  sespect 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  425 

an  angiel  from  heven.  and  one  where  all  my  happi- 
ness was  depending,  and  I  would  Sacrefise  almost 
my  life  to  make  her  Happy,  but  now  I  am  determined 
to  have  satisfaction,  it  shant  be  onely  one  family 
thats  miserable,  for  I  am  Robbed  of  all  happiness 
in  this  world  I  am  determined  to  leve  her.  and  take 
my  daughter  with  me  that  Shant  see  her  poor  mother 
Lot.  now  Sir  if  I  Cant  see  you  at  your  house  call  and 
see  me.  for  there  is  no  person  that  Knowes  any  thing 
as  yet.  And  I  am  tiremd  to  see  you,  by  some  means 
or  other,  for  you  have  made  me  an  unhappy  man 
for  eve.  put  it  to  your  own  case  and  Reflect  one 
moment,  that  you  should  know  shush  a  thing  of 
your  wife,  would  not  you  have  satisfaction  yes.  and 
so  will  I  before  one  day  passes  me  more. 

I  am  yours 

JAMES  REYNOLDS. 
Mr.  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 


NO.    Ill 

Saturday  Evening,  lyth  December,  1791. 

SIR, 

I  now  have  taken  till  tuesday  morning  to  Consider 
on  What  Steps  will  be  Best  for  me  to  take.  I  should 
not  have  let  the  matter  Rested  till  then,  if  it  had 
not  been  for  the  news  of  the  death  of  my  Sister, 
which  it  Semes  as  if  all  my  troubles  are  Comming  on 
me  in  one  moment,  if  it  had  been  any  other  person 
except  yourself,  that  treated  me  as  you  have  done. 
I  should  not  have  taken  the  trouble  to  Call  on  them 
more  than  once,  but  your  being  in  the  Station  of  life  I 
you  are.  induses  me  to  way  every  Surcomcance  welF 


426  Alexander  Hamilton 

Respecting  the  matter  it  will  be  impossible  for  me 
ever  to  think  of  liveing  or  Reconsiling  myself  to  Stay 
with  a  woman  that  I  no  has  plased  her  affections  on 
you.  and  you  know  if  you  Reflect  one  moment,  that 
you  have  been  the  sole  Cause  of  it.  I  have  all 
Reason  in  the  world  to  believe  its  true.  I  am  that 
man  that  will  always  have  Satisfaction  by  some 
means  or  other  when  treated  ill.  Especially  when 
I  am  treated  in  the  mannor,  as  you  have  done,  you 
may  rest  ashured  that  the  matter  as  yet  is  Not 
known.  If  think  proper  to  Call  at  the  sign  of  the 
George  tuesday  morning  at  8  oclock  I  will  be  there, 
for  your  house  or  office  is  no  place  to  converse  about 
these  matters,  if  that  is  not  agreeable  to  you.  let 
me  know  what  place  I  shall  see  you  at.  at  that  time, 
for  I  am  determined  to  know  what  corse  I  shall  take, 
more  miserable  I  cant  be  than  I  am  at  present,  let 
the  consequence  be  as  it  will,  for  when  I  come  into 
the  house.  I  find  the  wife  always  weeping  and  pray- 
ing that  I  wont  leve  her.  And  its  all  on  your  ac- 
count, for  if  you  had  not  seeked  for  her  Ruin  it  would 
not  have  happined.  Could  you  not  have  Relieved 
the  disstressed  without  transgressing  in  the  mannor 
you  have  done.  Sertainly  you  did  not  show  the  man 
of  honnor.  in  taking  the  advantage  of  the  afflicted, 
when  Calling  on  you  as  a  father  and  protector  in  the 
time  of  disstress.  put  that  home  to  yourself  and  tell 
me  what  you  would  do  in  such  a  Case,  or  what 
amend  Could  be  made  to  you  or  wether  it  would  be 
possible  to  make  any.  you  will  answer  no.  it  be 
impossible  after  being  Robbed  of  all  your  happiness 
and  your  whole  family  made  misseable.  I  know 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  427 

you  are  a  man  thats  not  void  of  feeling.  I  am  not 
a  man  that  wishes  to  do  any  thing  Rashly,  or  plunge 
myself  into  Ruin,  now  if  you  think  proper  to  se  me 
at  the  place  I  have  mentioned,  or  any  other,  please 
to  let  me  no  before,  for  I  wish  to  be  by  our  self  s  where 
we  Can  converse  together,  for  if  you  do  not  Call  on 
me  or  let  me  no  where  I  Can  see.  you  at  that  time. 
I  shant  call  on  you  after  this 

I  am  yours 

JAMES  REYNOLDS 
Mr.  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 


NO.    IV 

PHILADELPHIA,  ipth  December,  1791. 

SIR. 

When  we  were  last  togeather  you  then  would  wis 
to  know  my  Determination  what  I  would  do  and.  you 
exspess  a  wish  to  do  any  thing  that  was  in  your 
power  to  Serve  me.  its  true  its  in  your  power  to  do 
a  great  deal  for  me,  but  its  out  of  your  power  to  do 
any  thing  that  will  Restore  to  me  my  Happiness 
again  for  if  you  should  give  me  all  you  possess  would 
not  do  it.  god  knowes  I  love  the  woman  and  wish 
every  blessing  may  attend  her,  you  have  bin  the 
Cause  of  Winning  her  love,  and  I  Dont  think  I  Can 
be  Reconciled  to  live  with  Her,  when  I  know  I  hant 
her  love,  now  Sir  I  have  Considered  on  the  matter 
Serously.  I  have  this  preposial  to  make  to  you. 
give  me  the  Sum  Of  thousand  dollars  and  I  will  leve 
the  town  and  take  my  daughter  with  me  and  go 
where  my  Friend  Shant  here  from  me  and  leve  her 
to  Yourself  to  do  for  her  as  you  thing  proper.  I 


428  Alexander  Hamilton 

hope  you  wont  think  my  request  is  in  a  view  of 
making  Me  Satisfaction  for  the  injury  done  me.  for 
there  is  nothing  that  you  Can  do  will  compensate 
for  it.  your  answer  I  shall  expect  This  evening  or 
in  the  morning  early,  as  I  am  Determined  to  wate 
no  longer  till.  I  know  my  lot 

yours 

JAMES  REYNOLDS 
Mr.  ALEXR.  HAMILTON. 


NO.  v 

Received  December  22  of  Alexander  Hamilton 
six  hundred  dollars  on  account  of  a  sum  of  one  thou- 
sand dollars  due  to  me. 

JAMES  REYNOLDS 


NO.    VI 

Received  Philadelphia  January  3.  1792  of  Alex- 
ander Hamilton  four  hundred  dollars  in  full  of  all 
demands 

JAMES  REYNOLDS 

NO.    VII 

PHILADELPHIA  i7th  January,  1792 

SIR 

I  Suppose  you  will  be  surprised  in  my  writing  to 
you  Repeatedly  as  I  do.  but  dont  be  Alarmed  for 
its  Mrs.  R.  wish  to  See  you.  and  for  My  own  happi- 
ness and  hers.  I  have  not  the  Least  Objections  to 
your  Calling,  as  a  friend  to  Boath  of  us.  and  must 
rely  intirely  on  your  and  her  honnor.  when  I  con- 
versed with  you  last.  I  told  you  it  would  be  disagree- 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  429 

able  to  me  for  you  to  Call,  but  Sence,  I  am  pritty 
well  Convinsed,  She  would  onely  wish  to  See  you  as 
a  friend,  and  sence  I  am  Reconciled  to  live  with  her, 
I  would  wish  to  do  every  thing  for  her  happiness  and 
my  own,  and  Time  may  ware  of  every  thing,  So 
dont  fail  in  Calling  as  Soon  as  you  Can  make  it  Con- 
veanant.  and  I  Rely  on  your  befriending  me  if  there 
should  anything  Offer  that  would  be  to  my  advan- 
tage, as  you  Express  a  wish  to  befriend  me.  So  I  am 

yours  to  Serve 

JAMES  REYNOLDS 
Mr.  ALEXR.  HAMILTON. 


NO.    VIII 

Monday  Night,  Eight  C.,  L 

SIR, 

I  need  not  acquaint  that  I  had  Ben  Sick  all  moast 
Ever  sence  I  saw  you  as  I  am  sure  you  allready  no 
it  Nor  would  I  solicit  a  favor  wich  Is  so  hard  to 
obtain  were  It  not  for  the  Last  time  Yes  Sir  Rest 
assurred  I  will  never  ask  you  to  Call  on  me  again  I 
have  kept  my  Bed  those  tow  dayes  and  now  rise 
from  My  pilliow  wich  your  Neglect  has  filled  with 
the  shorpest  thorns  I  no  Longer  doubt  what  I  have 
Dreaded  to  no  but  stop  I  do  not  wish  to  se  you  to  to 
say  any  thing  about  my  Late  disappointment  No 
I  only  do  it  to  Ease  a  heart  wich  is  ready  Burst  with 
Greef  I  can  neither  Eat  or  sleep  I  have  Been  on 
the  point  of  doing  the  moast  horrid  acts  at  I  shudder 
to  think  where  I  might  been  what  will  Become  of  me. 
In  vain  I  try  to  Call  reason  to  aid  me  but  alas  ther  Is 
no  Comfort  for  me  I  feel  as  If  I  should  not  Con- 
tennue  long  and  all  the  wish  I  have  Is  to  se  you 


43°  Alexander  Hamilton 

once  more  that  I  may  my  doubts  Cleared  up  for 
God  sake  be  not  so  voed  of  all  humannity  as  to  deni 
me  this  Last  request  but  if  you  will  not  Call  some 
time  this  night  I  no  its  late  but  any  tim  between 
this  and  twelve  A  Clock  I  shall  be  up  Let  me  Intreat 
you  If  you  wont  Come  to  send  me  a  Line  oh  my 
head  I  can  rite  no  more  do  something  to  Ease  My 
heart  or  Els  I  no  not  what  I  shall  do  for  so  I  cannot 
live  Commit  this  to  the  care  of  my  maid  be  not 
offended  I  beg. 

NO.    IX 

Wednesday  Morning  ten  of  Clock. 

DEAR  SIR 

I  have  kept  my  bed  those  tow  days  past  but  find 
my  self  mutch  better  at  presant  though  yet  full  dis- 
treesed  and  shall  till  I  se  you  fretting  was  the  Cause 
of  my  Illness  I  thought  you  had  been  told  to  stay 
away  from  our  house  and  yesterday  with  tears  I  my 
Eyes  I  beged  Mr.  once  more  to  permit  your  visits 
and  he  told  upon  his  honnour  that  he  had  not  said 
anything  to  you  and  that  It  was  your  own  fault 
believe  me  I  scarce  knew  how  to  beleeve  my  senses 
and  if  my  seturation  was  insupportable  before  I 
heard  this  It  was  now  more  so  fear  prevents  my 
saing  more  only  that  I  shal  be  miserable  till  I  se  you 
and  if  my  dear  freend  has  the  Least  Esteeme  for  the 
unhappy  Maria  whos  greateest  fault  Is  Loveing  him 
he  will  come  as  soon  as  he  shall  get  this  and  till  that 
time  My  breast  will  be  the  seate  of  pain  and  woe 

adieu. 

Col.  HAMILTON. 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  431 

P.  S.  If  you  cannot  come  this  Evening  to  stay 
just  come  only  for  one  moment  as  I  shal  be  Lone 
Mr.  is  going  to  sup  with  a  friend  from  New  York. 

NO.    X 

Monday  Morning. 

the  Girl  tells  me  that  you  said  If  I  wanted  any 
thing  that  I  should  write  this  morning  alas  my  friend 
want  what  what  can  ask  for  but  peace  wich  you 
alone  can  restore  to  my  tortured  bosom  and  do  My 
dear  Col  hamilton  on  my  kneese  Let  me  Intreatee 
you  to  reade  my  Letter  and  Comply  with  my  request 
tell  the  bearer  of  this  or  give  her  a  line  you  need 
not  be  the  least  affraid  let  me  not  die  with  fear  have 
pity  on  me  my  freend  for  I  deserve  it  I  would  not 
solicit  this  favor  but  I  am  sure  It  cannot  injure  you 
and  will  be  all  the  happiness  I  Ever  Expect  to  have 
But  oh  I  am  disstressed  more  than  I  can  tell  My 
heart  Is  ready  to  burst  and  my  tears  wich  once  could 
flow  with  Ease  are  now  denied  me  Could  I  only  weep 
I  would  thank  heaven  and  bless  the  hand  that 


NO.    XI 

Sunday  Evening  24th  March.  1792. 

SIR: 

On  my  entering  the  Room  the  last  evening.  I 
found  Mrs  Reynolds  in  a  setuvation  little  different 
from  distraction  and  for  some  time  could  not  prevail 
on  her  to  tell  me  the  Cause,  at  last  She  informed  me 
that  you  had  been  here  likewise  of  a  letter  she  had 
wrote  you  in  a  fright,  which  she  need  not  have  don 
as  I  Never  intended  doing  any  thing  I  told  her  but 
did  it  to  humble  Her.  for  the  imprudent  language 


43 2  Alexander  Hamilton 

she  made  yuse  of  to  me.  and  You  may  Rest  ashured 
sir,  that  I  have  not  a  wish  to  do  any  thing  that  may 
give  you  or  your  family  a  moments  pain  I  know  not 
what  you  may  think  of  me.  but  suppose  yourself  for 
a  moment  in  my  setuvation.  that  your  wife  whom 
you  tenderly  love,  should  plase  her  affections  on 
another  object  and  hear  her  say.  that  all  her  happi- 
ness depends  intirely  on  that  object,  what  would  you 
do  in  such  a  Case,  would  you  have  acted  as  I  have 
don.  I  have  Consented  to  things  which  I  thought 
I  never  could  have  don.  but  I  have  dun  it  to  make 
life  tolerable,  and  for  the  sake  of  a  person  whose 
happiness  is  dearer  to  me  than  my  own.  I  have 
another  afliction  added  to  the  Rest  that  is  almost 
insupportable.  I  find  when  ever  you  have  been  with 
her.  She  is  Cheerful  and  kind,  but  when  you  have 
not  in  some  time  she  is  Quite  to  Reverse,  and  wishes 
to  be  alone  by  her  self,  but  when  I  tell  her  of  it.  all 
her  answer  is  she  Cant  help  it.  and  hopes  I  will  for- 
give her.  shurely  you  Cannot  wonder  if  I  should 
act  ever  so  imprudent,  though  at  present  if  I  could 
take  all  her  Grief  upon  myself  I  would  do  it  with 
pleasure,  the  excess  of  which  alarm  me  untill  now.  I 
have  had  no  idea  of.  I  have  spent  this  day  at  her 
bed  side  in  trying  to  give  her  the  Consolation  which 
I  myself  stand  in  need  of.  she  also  tell  me,  you  wish 
to  see  me  tomorrow  evening  and  then  I  shall  Con- 
vince you.  that  I  would  not  wish  to  trifle  with  you 
And  would  much  Rather  add  to  the  happiness  of  all 
than  to  distress  any  am  sir  Your 

JAMES  REYNOLDS 
Mr.  ALEX.  HAMILTON. 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  433 

NO.    XII 

Reade  this  all 

Sunday  Night  one  O'Clock 

My  dear  friend 

In  a  state  of  mind  which  know  language  can  paint 
I  take  up  the  pen  but  alas  I  know  not  what  I  write 
or  how  to  give  you  an  idea  of  the  anguish  wich  at 
this  moment  rends  my  heart  yes  my  friend  I  am 
doomed  to  drink  the  bitter  cup  of  affliction  Pure  and 
unmixed  but  why  should  I  repine  why  pour  forth 
my  wretched  soul  in  fruitless  complainings  for  you 
have  said  It  you  have  commanded  and  I  must  sub- 
mit tow  heaven  Inexorable  heaven  Is  deaf  to  my 
anguish  and  has  marked  me  out  for  the  child  of  sor- 
row oh  my  dear  friend  wether  shall  I  fly  for  consola- 
tion oh  all  all  consolation  is  shut  against  me  there 
is  not  the  least  gleme  of  hope  but  oh  merciful  God 
forgive  me  and  you  my  friend  Comply  with  this  Last 
Request  Let  me  once  more  se  you  and  unbosom  My- 
self to  you  perhaps  I  shal  be  happier  after  It  I  have 
mutch  to  tell  wich  I  dare  not  write  And  which  you 
ought  to  know  oh  my  dear  Sir  give  me  your  advice 
for  once  In  an  Affair  on  wich  depends  my  Existence 
Itself  Think  not  my  friend  that  I  say  this  to  make 
you  come  and  se  me  and  that  I  have  nothing  to  tell 
you  for  heaven  by  which  I  declare  knows  that  I  have 
woes  to  relate  wich  I  never  Expected  to  have  known 
accept  by  the  name  Come  therefore  to-morrow  some- 
time or  Els  in  the  Evening  do  I  beg  you  to  come 
gracious  God  had  I  the  world  I  would  lay  It  at  your 
feet  If  I  could  only  se  you  oh  I  must  or  I  shall  lose 
my  senses  at  It  is  not  because  I  think  to  prevail  on 

VOL.  vii.— a8. 


434  Alexander  Hamilton 

you  to  visit  me  again  no  my  dear  Col  Hamilton  I  do 
not  think  of  It  but  will  when  I  se  you  do  just  as  you 
tell  me  so  doant  be  offended  with  me  for  pleading  so 
hard  to  se  you  If  you  do  not  think  it  proper  to  come 
here  Let  me  know  by  a  line  where  I  shal  se  you  and 
what  hour  you  need  not  put  your  name  to  It  or 
mine  Either  Just  direct  Mr  or  Els  leve  It  blank  adieu 
my  Ever  dear  Col  hamilton  you  may  form  to  your- 
self an  Idea  of  my  distress  for  I  Cant  desscribe  It  to 
you  Pray  for  me  and  be  kind  to  me  Let  me  se  you 
death  now  would  be  welcome  Give 


NO.    XIII 

PHILADELPHIA  3d,  April,  1792. 

SIR 

I  hope  you  will  pardon  me  in  taking  the  liberty  I 
do  In  troubling  you  so  offen.  it  hurts  me  to  let  you 
Know  my  Setivation.  I  should  take  it  a  a  pro- 
tickeler  if  you  would  Oblige  me  with  the  lone  of 
about  thirty  Dollars  I  am  in  hopes  in  a  fue  days  I 
shall  be  In  a  more  better  Setivation.  and  then  I  shall 
Be  able  to  make  you  ample  Satisfaction  for  your 
Favours  shewn  me.  I  want  it  for  some  little  Neces- 
saries of  life  for  my  family,  sir  you  granting  the 
above  favour  this  morning  will  very  much  Oblige 
your  most  Obedient  and  humble  Servant 

JAMES  REYNOLDS 
ALEX.  HAMILTON  Esqr. 

N  B  the  inclose  is  a  Receipt  for  Ninety  dollars, 
that  is  if  you  Can  Oblige  me  with  the  thirty,  thats 
Including  Boath  Sums 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  435 

Received  Philadelphia  3d.  April.  1792  of  Alexan- 
der Hamilton  Esqr.  Ninety  dollars  which  I  promise 
to  pay  on  demand 

JAMES  REYNOLDS 

90,  Dollars 


NO.    XIV 

PHILADELPHIA,  7th,  April.  1792. 

SIR 

I  am  sorry  to  inform  you  my  setivation  is  as  such. 
I  am  indebted  to  a  man  in  this  town  about  45.  dollars 
which  he  will  wate  no  longer  on  me.  now  sir  I  am 
sorrey  to  be  troubleing  you  So  Often,  which  if  you 
Can  Oblige  me  with  this  to-day,  you  will  do  me  in- 
fenate  service,  that  will  pay  Nearly  all  I  owe  in  this 
town  except  yourself.  I  have  some  property  on  the 
North  River  wich  I  have  Wrote  to  my  Brother  sell 
which  as  soon  as  it  Come  in  my  hands.  I  pay  you 
every  shilling  with  strictest  Justice  you  Oblige  me 
with,  the  inclose  is  the  Receipt,  for  the  amount 

I  am  sir  with  due  regard,  your  humble  servant 

JAMES  REYNOLDS 

ALEXANDER  HAMILTON  Esqr. 

Received  Philadelphia,  7th.  April.  1792.  of  Alex- 
ander Hamilton  Esqr.  Forty  five  dollars  which  I 
promise  to  pay  on  demand 

JAMES  REYNOLDS 

45  dollars 


436  Alexander  Hamilton 

NO.  xv 

PHILADELPHIA,  lyth,  April.  1792. 

SIR 

I  am  sorry  to  be  the  barer  of  So  disagreeable,  an 
unhappy  infermation.  I  must  tell  yoti  Sir  that  I  have 
bin  the  most  unhappiest  man.  for  this  five  days  in 
Existance,  Which  you  aught  to  be  the  last  person  I 
ever  Should  tell  my  troubles  to.  ever  Sence  the  night 
you  Calld  and  gave  her  the  Blank  Paper.  She  has 
treated  me  more  Cruel  than  pen  cant  paint  out.  and 
Ses  that  She  is  determed  never  to  be  a  wife  to  me 
any  more,  and  Ses  that  it  Is  a  plan  of  ours,  what  has 
past  god  knows  I  Freely  forgive  you  and  dont  wish 
to  give  you  fear  or  pain  a  moment  on  the  account  of 
it.  now  Sir  I  hope  you  will  give  me  your  advise  as 
freely  as  if  Nothing  had  eve  passed  Between  us  I 
think  it  is  in  your  power  to  make  matter  all  Easy 
again,  and  I  suppose  you  to  be  that  Man  of  f calling 
that  you  would  wish  to  make  every  person  happy 
Where  it  in  you  power  I  shall  wate  to  See  you  at  the 
Office  if  its  Convenant.  I  am  sir  with  Asteem  yours 

JAMES  REYNOLDS 

ALEXANDER  HAMILTON  Esqr. 


NO.    XVI 

PHILADELPHIA,  23d.  April.  1792. 

SIR 

I  am  sorry  I  am  in  this  disagreeable  sutivation 
which  Obliges  me  to  trouble  you  So  offen  as  I  do. 
but  I  hope  it  wont  be  long  before  it  will  be  In  my 
power  to  discharge  what  I  am  indebted  to  you 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  437 

Nothing  will  give  me  greater  pleasure  I  must  Sir  ask 
the  loan  of  thirty  dollars  more  from  you,  which  I 
shall  esteem  as  a  particular  favour,  and  you  may 
Rest  ashured  that  I  will  pay  you  with  Strictest  Jus- 
tice, for  the  Relief e  you  have  afforded  me,  the  In- 
closed is  the  Receipt  for  the  thirty  dollars.  I  shall 
wate  at  your  Office.  Sir  for  an  answer  I  am  sir  your 
very  Humble  Servant 

JAMES  REYNOLDS. 
ALEXANDER  HAMILTON  Esqr. 


NO.    XVII 

PHILADELPHIA,  2d  May,  1792. 

SIR 

I  must  now  forever  forbid  you  of  visiting  Mrs.  R 
any  more  I  was  in  hopes  that  it  would  in  time  ware 
off,  but  I  find  there  is  no  hopes.  So  I  determed  to 
put  a  finell  end  to  it.  if  its  in  my  power,  for  I  find 
by  your  Seeing  her  onely  Renews  the  Friendship, 
and  likewise  when  you  Call  you  are  fearful  any  per- 
son Should  See  you  am  I  a  person  of  Such  a  bad 
Carector.  that  you  would  not  wish  to  be  seen  Coming 
in  my  house  in  the  front  way,  all  any  Person  Can 
say  of  me  is  that  I  am  poore  and  I  dont  know  if  that 
is  any  Crime.  So  I  must  meet  my  fate,  I  have  my 
Reasons  for  it  for  I  cannot  be  Reconsiled  to  it.  for 
there  is  know  person  Can  tell  the  pain  it  gives  me 
except  the  were  plased  in  my  sutivation  I  am  sure 
the  world  would  despise  me  if  the  Onely  new  what 
I  have  bin  Reconsiled  to,  I  am  in  hopes  in  a  short 


438  Alexander  Hamilton 

time  to  make  you  amends  for  your  favour  Rendered 
me  I  am  Sir  your  humble  Servant 

J.  REYNOLDS 
ALEXANDER  HAMILTON,  Esqr. 


NO.    XVIII 

Saturday  Morning  the  June  2 . 

DEAR  SIR 

I  once  take  up  the  pen  to  solicit  The  favor  of  seing 
again  oh  Col  hamilton  what  have  I  done  that  you 
should  thus  Neglect  me  Is  it  because  I  am  unhappy 
But  stop  I  will  not  say  you  have  for  perhaps  you 
have  caled  and  have  found  no  opportunity  to  Come 
In  at  least  I  hope  you  have  I  am  now  A  lone  and 
shall  be  for  a  few  days  I  believe  till  Wensday  though 
am  not  sartain  and  would  wish  to  se  you  this  Evening 
I  poseble  If  not  as  soon  as  you  can  make  It  con- 
venant  oh  my  deer  freend  how  shal  I  plede  Enough 
what  shal  I  say  Let  me  beg  of  you  to  Come  and  If 
you  never  se  me  again  oh  if  you  think  It  best  I  will 
submit  to  It  and  take  a  long  and  last  adieu 

MARI 

Col  HAMILTON 

for  heaven  sake  keep  me  not  In  suspince  Let  me 
know  your  Intention  Either  by  a  Line  or  Catline. 


NO.    XIX 

SIR 

I  am  now  under  the  necessity  of  asking  a  favour 
from  you  Which  if  Can  Oblige  me  with  the  loan  of 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  439 

three  Hundred  dollars,  it  will  be  in  my  power  to 
make  five  hundred  Before  the  Next  week  is  out.  and 
if  you  Can  oblege  me  with  it.  you  may  rely  on  have- 
ing  of  it  again  the  last  of  Next  Week,  if  I  am  alive 
and  well,  the  use  I  wont  it  for  is  to  Subscribe  to  the 
turn  pike  Road,  there  is  a  number  of  gentleman  in 
town  wants  me  to  go  up  to  Lancaster  to  Subscribe 
for  them,  no  sir  if  you  Can  oblige  as  I  want  to  leve 
town  tomorrow  morning  and  the  books  will  be  open 
for  subscribing  on  monday  morning  Next,  so  that  I 
shall  have  little  time  to  get  there,  you  never  Sir  Can 
oblige  me  more  than  Complying  with  the  above, 
please  to  let  me  know  between  this  and  4  oClock  if 
you  dont  I  shant  be  able  to  go — from  your  Humble 

Sev't 

JAMES  REYNOLDS. 
ALEXR.  HAMILTON  Esqr. 


NO.  xx 

PHILADELPHIA  23d  June.  1792. 
HONNORED   SlR, 

Your  Goodness  will  I  hope  overlook  the  present 
application  you  will  infenately  Oblige  me  if  you  Can 
let  me  have  the  Loan  of  fifty  dollars,  for  a  few  days, 
what  little  money  I  had  I  put  into  the  turnpike 
Scrip,  and  I  dont  like  to  sell  At  the  low  advance  the 
are  selling  at.  at  present,  as  its  very  low.  if  you  Can 
Oblige  me  with  that  much  in  the  morning  sir  you 
shall  have  it  in  a  very  short  time  again  and  you  Will 
very  much  Oblige  your  Humble  and  Obed.  Serv. 

J.  R. 

ALEXR.  HAMILTON  Esq. 


44°  Alexander  Hamilton 

N  B.  you  will  I  hope  pardon  me  in  taking  the  lib- 
erty to  call  today,  but  my  Necessaty  is  such  that  it 
Oblige  me  to  do  it:  Sunday  evening. 

Received  Philadelphia  24th  June.  1792  of  Alex- 
ander Hamilton  Esq.  Fifty  Dollars,  which  I  promise 
to  pay  on  demand  to  the  said  Alexr.  Hamilton  or 
Order  as  witness  my  hand 

JAMES  REYNOLDS 

50  Dollars 


NO.    XXI 

PHILADELPHIA  24th.  August.  1792. 

HONORED  SIR. 

When  I  Conversed  with  you  last  I  mentioned  that 
I  was  going  to  move.  Sence  that  I  have  moved  I 
have  taken  a  very  convenant  house  for  a  boarding 
house,  but  being  disappointed  in  receiving  Some 
money,  put  it  entirely  out  of  my  power  to  furnish 
the  house  I  have  taken.  I  have  four  genteal  board- 
ers will  come  to  live  with  me,  as  soon  as  I  can  get 
the  Rooms  furnished,  dear  Sir,  this  is  my  Setuvation. 
I  am  in  no  way  of  business,  the  Cash  last  lent  me. 
inable  me  to  pay  my  Rent,  and  some  little  debts  I 
had  Contracted  for  my  Family s  youse.  now  sir  if  I 
Can  ask  a  favour  once  more  of  the  loan  of  two  Hun- 
dred dollars.  I  will  give  you  Surity  of  all  I  process, 
for  the  payment  of  what  I  owe  you.  without  your 
assistance,  this  time  I  dont  know  what  I  shall  do. 
Mrs.  Reynolds  and  myself  has  made  a  Calculation, 
and  find  with  that  much  money  will  inable  us  to  take 
in  four  boarders,  and  I  am  in  hopes  in  the  meantime 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  441 

will,  something  will  turn  up  in  my  favour,  which  will 
enable  me  to  keep  myself  and  famy.  dear  Sir  your 
Complying  with  the  above  will  for  ever,  lay  me  under 
the  greatist  Obligation  to  you  and  I  will,  you  may 
Rest  ashured.  Repay  it  again  as  soon  as  it  is  in  my 
power. 

I  am  Honored  Sir  with 
Respect  your  most  Obedt. 
and  Humble  Servt. 

JAMES  REYNOLDS 
Vine  Street  No.  161  Second  door 
from  the  Corner  of  fifth  Street 
ALEXR.  HAMILTON  Esqr. 


NO.    XXII 

PHILADELPHIA  3oth  Aug.  1792. 

HONORED  SIR, 

you  will  I  hope  pardon  me  if  I  intrude  on  your 
goodness  thinking  the  multiply  city  of  business,  you 
have  to  encounter  With,  has  been  the  cause  of  my 
not  hereing  from  you.  which  induces  me  to  write 
the  Second  time,  flatering  myself  it  will  be  in  your 
Power  to  Comply  with  my  Request,  which  I  shall 
make  it  my  whole  Study,  to  Remit  it  to  you  as  soon 
as  its  in  my  power  your  Compyance  dear  Sir  will 
very  much 

Oblige  your  most 

Obed.  and  Humble  Servant. 

JAMES  REYNOLDS. 
Vine  street  No.  161,  one  door  from 

the  Corner  of  Fifth  Street. 
ALEXANDER  HAMILTON,  Esq. 


442  Alexander  Hamilton 

NO.    XXIII 

CITY  OF       ) 
PHILADELPHIA  J 

Henry  Seckel  of  the  City  aforesaid  Merchant  mak- 
eth  oath  that  on  or  about  the  thirteenth  day  of  No- 
vember in  the  year  one  thousand  seven  hundred  and 
ninety  two  Jacob  Clingman  sent  for  this  Deponent 
to  the  house  of  Hilary  Baker,  Esquire,  then  Alder- 
man, that  this  Deponent  went  accordingly  to  the 
house  of  the  said  Alderman  and  was  there  requested 
by  the  said  Jacob  Clingman  to  become  his  bail  which 
he  did  upon  the  promise  of  the  said  Clingman  to 
deposit  with  him  a  sum  in  certificates  sufficient  to 
cover  and  secure  him  for  so  becoming  bail — That  the 
said  Clingman  having  failed  to  make  the  said  de- 
posit according  to  his  promise  this  Deponent  ap- 
plied to  the  said  Hilary  Baker  and  obtained  for  him 
a  warrant  upon  which  the  said  Clingman  was  ar- 
rested and  carried  again  to  the  said  Hilary  Baker — 
That  said  Clingman  again  urged  this  Deponent  to 
become  his  bail  but  he  declining  said  Clingman  re- 
quested this  Deponent  to  go  and  bring  to  him  one 
James  Reynolds  from  whom  as  this  Deponent  under- 
stood the  said  Clingman  expected  to  obtain  assist- 
ance towards  his  release  from  Custody — That  this 
Deponent  went  accordingly  to  the  said  James  Rey- 
nolds and  in  the  name  of  Clingman  engaged  him  to 
accompany  the  Deponent  to  the  House  of  the  said 
Alderman  where  the  said  James  Reynolds  was  also 
apprehended  and  detained — That  thereupon  the  said 
James  Reynolds  requested  this  Deponent  to  carry  a 
letter  for  him  to  Alexander  Hamilton  then  Secretary 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  443 

of  the  Treasury — that  this  Deponent  carried  the  said 
letter  as  requested  and  after  two  or  three  calls  found 
the  said  Alexander  Hamilton  and  delivered  the  letter 
to  him — that  the  said  Hamilton  after  reading  it  men- 
tioned to  this  Deponent  that  he  had  known  the 
father  of  the  said  Reynolds  during  the  war  with 
Great  Britain,  and  would  be  willing  to  serve  the  said 
James,  if  he  could  with  propriety,  but  that  it  was  not 
consistent  with  the  duty  of  his  office  to  do  what  Rey- 
nolds now  requested;  and  also  mentioned  to  this 
Deponent  that  Reynolds  and  Clingman  had  been 
doing  something  very  bad  and  advised  this  Deponent 
to  have  nothing  to  do  with  them  lest  he  might  bring 
himself  into  trouble — And  this  Deponent  further 
saith  that  he  never  had  any  conversation  or  com- 
munication whatever  with  the  said  Alexander  Ham- 
ilton respecting  the  said  Reynolds  or  Clingman  till 
the  time  of  carrying  the  said  letter.  And  this  De- 
ponent further  saith  that  the  said  Clingman  formerly 
lived  with  this  Deponent  and  kept  his  books  which 
as  he  supposes  was  the  reason  of  his  sending  for  this 
Deponent  to  become  his  bail  thinking  that  this  De- 
ponent might  be  willing  to  befriend  him. 

HENRY  SECKEL. 
Sworn  this  igth  day  of  July 
MDCCXCVII  before  me 
HILARY  BAKER,  Mayor. 


NO.    XXIV 


Having  perused  the  fifth  and  sixth  numbers  of  a 
late  publication  in  this  City  entitled  The  History  of 


444  Alexander  Hamilton 

the  United  States  for  the  Year  1796,  and  having  re- 
viewed certain  letters  and  documents  which  have  re- 
mained in  my  possession  since  the  Year  1792,  I  do 
hereby  at  the  request  of  Alexander  Hamilton  Esquire 
of  New  York  Certify  and  declare, 

That  in  the  Month  of  December  1792,  I  was  de- 
sired by  Mr.  Hamilton  to  be  present  at  his  house  as 
the  witness  of  an  interview  which  had  been  agreed 
upon  between  himself  and  James  Monroe,  Frederick 
Augustus  Muhlenburg  and  Abraham  Venable,  Es- 
quires, with  which  I  accordingly  complied. 

The  object  of  the  interview  was  to  remove  from 
the  minds  of  those  Gentlemen,  certain  suspicions 
which  had  been  excited  by  suggestions  of  James 
Reynolds  then  in  Prison  and  Jacob  Clingman  a  Clerk 
to  Mr.  Muhlenburg,  (against  both  of  whom  prosecu- 
tions had  been  instituted  for  frauds  against  the 
United  States,)  that  Mr.  Hamilton  had  been  con- 
cerned in  promoting  or  assisting  speculation  in  the 
public  funds,  contrary  to  Law  and  his  duty  as  Sec- 
retary of  the  Treasury. 

The  conference  was  commenced  on  the  part  of  Mr. 
Monroe  by  reading  certain  Notes  from  Mr.  Hamilton 
and  a  Narrative  of  conversations  which  had  been 
held  with  the  said  Reynolds  and  Clingman — After 
the  grounds  upon  which  the  suspicions  rested,  had 
been  fully  stated,  Mr.  Hamilton  entered  into  an  ex- 
planation and  by  a  variety  of  written  documents, 
which  were  read,  fully  evinced,  that  there  was  nothing 
in  the  transactions  to  which  Reynolds  and  Clingman 
had  referred,  which  had  any  connection  with,  or  re- 
lation to  speculations  in  the  Funds,  claims  upon  the 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  445 

United  States,  or  any  public  or  official  transactions 
or  duties  whatever.  This  was  rendered  so  com- 
pletely evident,  that  Mr.  Venable  requested  Mr. 
Hamilton  to  desist  from  exhibiting  further  proofs. 
As  however  an  explanation  had  been  desired  by 
the  Gentleman  before  named,  Mr.  Hamilton  insisted 
upon  being  allowed  to  read  such  documents  as  he 
possessed,  for  the  purpose  of  obviating  every  shadow 
of  doubt  respecting  the  propriety  of  his  Official 
conduct. 

After  Mr.  Hamilton's  explanation  terminated 
Messrs.  Monroe,  Muhlenburg,  and  Venable,  severally 
acknowledged  their  entire  satisfaction,  that  the 
affair  had  no  relation  to  Official  duties,  and  that  it 
ought  not  to  affect  or  impair  the  public  confidence 
in  Mr.  Hamilton's  character; — at  the  same  time, 
they  expressed  their  regrets  at  the  trouble  which  the 
explanation  had  occasioned.  During  a  conversation 
in  the  streets  of  Philadelphia  immediately  after  re- 
tiring from  Mr.  Hamilton's  house  Mr.  Venable  re- 
peated to  me,  that  the  explanation  was  entirely 
satisfactory,  and  expressed  his  concern,  that  he  had 
been  a  party  to  whom  it  had  been  made.  Though 
in  the  course  of  the  conversation  Mr.  Venable  ex- 
pressed his  discontent  with  public  measures  which 
had  been  recommended  by  Mr.  Hamilton,  yet  he 
manifested  a  high  respect  for  his  Talents,  and  con- 
fidence in  the  integrity  of  his  character. 

When  Mr.  Reynolds  was  in  Prison,  it  was  re- 
ported to  me,  that  he  had  threatened  to  make  dis- 
closures injurious  to  the  character  of  some  head  of  a 
Department.  This  report  I  communicated  to  Mr. 


446  Alexander  Hamilton 

Hamilton,  who  advised  me  to  take  no  steps  towards 
a  liberation  of  Reynolds  while  such  a  report  existed 
and  remained  unexplained.  This  was  antecedent  to 
the  interview  between  Mr.  Hamilton,  and  Messrs. 
Monroe,  Muhlenburg,  and  Venable,  or  to  any  know- 
ledge on  my  part  of  the  circumstance  by  which  it 
was  occasioned. 

The  Offence  for  which  Reynolds  and  Clingman 
were  prosecuted  by  my  direction,  was  for  suborning 
a  person  to  commit  perjury  for  the  purpose  of  ob- 
taining Letters  of  Administration  on  the  estate  of  a 
person  who  was  living.  After  the  prosecution  was 
commenced,  Clingman  confessed  to  me,  that  he  and 
Reynolds  were  possessed  of  lists  of  the  names  and 
sums  due  to  certain  Creditors  of  the  United  States, 
which  lists  had  been  obtained  from  the  Treasury— 
Both  Clingman  and  Reynolds  obstinately  refused  for 
some  time  to  deliver  up  the  lists  or  to  disclose  the 
name  of  the  person,  through  whose  infidelity  they 
had  been  obtained.  At  length  on  receiving  a  pro- 
mise from  me,  that  I  would  endeavor  to  effect  their 
liberation  from  the  consequences  of  the  prosecution, 
they  consented  to  surrender  the  lists,  to  restore  the 
balance  which  had  been  fraudulently  obtained,  and 
to  reveal  the  name  of  the  person,  by  whom  the  lists 
had  been  furnished. 

This  was  done  conformably  to  the  proposition  con- 
tained in  a  letter  from  Clingman  dated  December  4, 
1792,  of  which  a  copy  is  hereunto  annexed.  The 
original  letter  and  the  lists  which  were  surrendered 
now  remain  in  my  possession.  Agreeably  to  my 
engagement  I  informed  Jared  Ingersol  Esqr.  At- 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  447 

torney  General  of  Pennsylvania,  that  an  important 
discovery  had  been  made,  and  the  condition  by 
which  it  could  be  rendered  useful  to  the  public  in 
preventing  future  frauds;  in  consequence  of  which 
the  prosecutions  against  Clingman  and  Reynolds 
were  dismissed. 

In  the  publication  referred  to,  it  is  suggested  that 
the  lists  were  furnished  by  Mr.  Duer;  this  is  an  in- 
jurious mistake — nothing  occurred  at  any  time  to 
my  knowledge,  which  could  give  colour  to  a  sus- 
picion, that  Mr.  Duer  was  in  any  manner  directly 
or  indirectly  concerned  with  or  privy  to  the  trans- 
action. The  infidelity  was  committed  by  a  clerk  in 
the  office  of  the  Register — Mr.  Duer  resigned  his 
office  in  March,  1790,  while  the  Treasury  was  at  New 
York — the  Clerk  who  furnished  the  lists  was  first 
employed  in  Philadelphia  in  January  1791.  The 
Accounts  from  which  the  lists  were  taken,  were  all 
settled  at  the  Treasury  subsequent  to  the  time  last 
mentioned;  on  the  discovery  above  stated  the  Clerk 
was  dismissed,  and  has  not  since  been  employed  in 
the  public  offices. 

The  name  of  the  Clerk  who  was  dismissed  has  not 
been  publicly  mentioned  for  a  reason  which  appears 
in  Clingman 's  letter;  but  if  the  disclosure  is  found 
necessary  to  the  vindication  of  an  innocent  character 
it  shall  be  made. 

Certified  in  Philadelphia,  this  twelfth  day  of  July, 
1797. 

OLIV.  WOLCOTT. 


44^  Alexander  Hamilton 

COPY  OF  A  LETTER  FROM  JACOB  CLINGMAN  TO  THE 
COMPTROLLER  OF  THE  TREASURY 

PHILADELPHIA,  December  4,  1792. 

SIR: 

Having  unfortunately  for  myself  been  brought 
into  a  very  disagreeable  situation,  on  account  of 
Letters  of  Administration  taken  out  by  a  certain 
John  Delabar  on  the  effects  of  a  certain  Ephraim 
Goodanough,  who,  it  since  appears,  is  still  living,  I 
beg  leave  to  mention  that  I  am  ready  to  refund  the 
money  to  the  Treasury  or  to  the  proper  owner  or  his 
order,  and  if  it  can  be  of  any  service  to  the  Treasury 
Department  or  to  the  United  States,  in  giving  up  the 
lists  of  the  names  of  the  persons  to  whom  pay  is  due, 
and  to  disclose  the  name  of  the  person  in  the  utmost 
confidence  from  whom  the  list  was  obtained,  earn- 
estly hoping  that  may  be  some  inducement  to 
withdraw  the  action  against  me,  which  if  prosecuted 
can  only  end  in  injuring  my  character  without  any 
further  advantage  to  the  United  States. 
I  have  the  honor  to  be 

your  most  humble  servant, 
(Signed),  JACOB  CLINGMAN. 

Hon.  OLIVER  WOLCOTT,  Esq. 


NO.  xxv 

NEW  YORK,  July  5,  1797. 

SIR: 

In  a  pamphlet  lately  published,  entitled  No.  V. 
of  The  History  of  the  United  States  for  1796,  etc., 
are  sundry  papers  respecting  the  affair  of  Reynolds, 
in  which  you  once  had  an  agency,  accompanied  with 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  449 

these  among  other  comments.  ''They  [certain  at- 
tacks on  Mr.  Monroe]  are  ungrateful,  because  he 
displayed  on  an  occasion,  that  will  be  mentioned 
immediately,  the  greatest  lenity  to  Mr.  Alexander 
Hamilton,  the  prime  mover  of  the  Federal  party. 
When  some  of  the  papers  which  are  now  to  be  laid 
before  the  world  were  submitted  to  the  Secretary; 
when  he  was  informed  that  they  were  to  be  com- 
municated to  President  Washington,  he  entreated  in 
the  most  anxious  tone  of  deprecation  that  the  meas- 
ure might  be  suspended.  Mr.  Monroe  was  one  of  the 
three  gentlemen  who  agreed  to  this  delay.  They  gave 
their  consent  to  it  on  his  express  promise  of  a  guarded 
behavior  in  future,  and  because  he  attached  to  the 
suppression  of  these  papers  a  mysterious  degree  of 
solicitude  which  they,  feeling  no  personal  resent- 
ment against  the  individual,  were  unwilling  to  aug- 
ment." Pages  204  and  205.  It  is  also  suggested, 
page  206,  that  I  made  "a  volunteer  acknowledg- 
ment of  seduction,"  and  it  must  be  understood  from 
the  context  that  this  acknowledgment  was  made  to 
the  same  three  gentlemen. 

The  peculiar  nature  of  this  transaction  renders  it 
impossible  that  you  should  not  recollect  it  in  all  its 
parts,  and  that  your  own  declaration  to  me  at  the 
time  contradicts  absolutely  the  construction  which 
the  editor  of  the  pamphlet  puts  upon  the  affair. 

I  think  myself  entitled  to  ask  from  your  candor 
and  justice  a  declaration  equivalent  to  that  which 
was  made  me  at  the  time,  in  the  presence  of  Mr. 
Wolcott,  by  yourself  and  the  two  other  gentlemen, 
accompanied  by  a  contradiction  of  the  representa- 


VOL.  VII.— 29. 


45°  Alexander  Hamilton 

tions  in  the  comments  cited  above.  And  I  shall  rely 
upon  your  delicacy  that  the  manner  of  doing  it  will 
be  such  as  one  gentleman  has  a  right  to  expect  from 
another  —  especially  as  you  must  be  sensible  that 
the  present  appearance  of  the  papers  is  contrary  to 
the  course  which  was  understood  between  us  to  be 
proper,  and  includes  a  dishonorable  infidelity  some- 
where. I  am  far  from  attributing  it  to  either  of  the 
three  gentlemen;  yet  the  suspicion  naturally  falls 
on  some  agent  made  use  of  by  them. 

I  send  you  a  copy  of  a  memorandum  of  the  sub- 
stance of  your  declaration,  made  by  me  the  morning 
after  our  interview. 

With  consideration, 

I  have  the  honor  to  be, 

Sir, 
Your  very  obed.  servt., 

ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

P.  S. — I  must  beg  the  favor  of  expedition  in  your 
reply. 

Memorandum  of  Substance  of  Declaration  of  Messrs. 
Monroe,  Muhlenburg,  and  Venable  concerning 
the  Affair  of  J.  Reynolds. 

That  they  regretted  the  trouble  and  uneasiness 
which  they  had  occasioned  to  me  in  consequence  of 
the  representations  made  to  them,  that  they  were 
perfectly  satisfied  with  the  explanation  I  had  given, 
and  that  there  was  nothing  in  the  transaction  which 
ought  to  affect  my  character  as  a  public  officer  or 
lessen  the  public  confidence  in  my  integrity. 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  451 

NO.    XXVI 

PHILADELPHIA,  December,  1792. 

GENTLEMEN  : 

On  reflection,  I  deem  it  advisable  for  me  to  have 
copies  of  the  several  papers  which  you  communi- 
cated to  me  in  our  interview  on  Saturday  evening, 
including  the  notes,  and  the  fragment  of  Mr.  Rey- 
nolds' letter  to  Mr.  Clingman.  I  therefore  request 
that  you  will  either  cause  copies  of  these  papers  to 
be  furnished  to  me,  taken  by  the  person  in  whose 
handwriting  the  declarations  which  you  showed  to 
me  were,  or  will  let  me  have  the  papers  themselves 
to  be  copied.  It  is  also  my  wish  that  all  such  papers 
as  are  original  may  be  detained  from  the  parties  of 
whom  they  were  had,  to  put  it  out  of  their  power  to 
repeat  the  abuse  of  them  in  situations  which  may 
deprive  me  of  the  advantage  of  explanation.  Con- 
sidering of  how  abominable  an  attempt  they  have 
been  the  instruments,  I  trust  you  will  feel  no  scruples 
about  this  detention.  With  consideration 
I  have  the  honor  to  be, 

Gentlemen, 
Your  obedient  servant, 

ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 
F.  AUGUSTUS  MUHLENBURG,    } 

JAMES  MONROE,  and  ABRA-    >  Esquires. 

HAM  VENABLE.  ) 


NO.    XXVII 

PHILADELPHIA,  December  18,  1792. 

SIR: 

I  have  communicated  your  letter  of  yesterday  to 


45 2  Alexander  Hamilton 

Messrs.  Venable  and  Monroe.  The  latter  has  all  the 
papers  relating  to  the  subject  in  his  possession,  and 
I  have  the  pleasure  to  inform  you  that  your  very 
reasonable  request  will  be  speedily  complied  with. 
I  have  the  honor  to  be,  with  much  esteem, 
Your  most  obedient, 

Humble  servant, 

FREDK.  A.  MUHLENBURG. 
ALEXANDER  HAMILTON,  Esq. 


NO.    XXVIII 

PHILADELPHIA,  December  20,  1792. 

SIR: 

I  have  the  honor  to  enclose  you  copies  of  the 
papers  requested  in  yours  a  few  days  past.     That 
of  the  notes  you  will  retain ;  the  others  you  will  be 
pleased,  after  transcribing,  to  return  to  me. 
With  due  respect,  I  have  the  honor  to  be, 
Your  very  humble  servant, 

JAS.  MONROE. 

Every  thing  you  desire  in  the  letter  above  men- 
tioned shall  be  most  strictly  complied  with. 
The  Hon.  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON,  Esq., 

Philadelphia. 


NO.    XXIX 

PHILADELPHIA,  July  10,  1797. 

SIR: 

As  I  do  not  reside  in  the  city  at  present,  your  letter 
of  the  5th  inst.  did  not  reach  me  time  enough  to 
answer  by  Saturday's  post.  Whilst  I  lament  the 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  453 

publication  of  the  papers  respecting  the  affair  of 
Reynolds  (of  which  I  hope  I  need  not  assure  you 
that  I  had  neither  knowledge  nor  agency,  for  I  never 
saw  them  since  the  affair  took  place,  nor  was  I  ever 
furnished  with  a  copy),  I  do  not  hesitate  to  declare 
that  I  regretted  the  trouble  and  uneasiness  this 
business  had  occasioned,  and  that  I  was  perfectly 
satisfied  with  the  explanation  you  gave.  At  the 
same  time  permit  me  to  remind  you  of  your  declara- 
tion, also  made  in  the  presence  of  Mr.  Wolcott,  that 
the  information  and  letters  in  our  possession  justi- 
fied the  suspicions  we  entertained  before  your  ex- 
planation took  place,  and  that  our  conduct  toward 
you  in  this  business  was  satisfactory.  Having  no 
share  or  agency  whatever  in  the  publication  or  com- 
ments you  are  pleased  to  cite,  I  must  beg  to  be  ex- 
cused from  making  any  remarks  thereon.  Were  I  to 
undertake  to  contradict  the  many  absurdities  and 
falsehoods  which  I  see  published  on  a  variety  of 
subjects  which  heretofore  came  under  my  notice,  it 
would  require  more  time  than  I  am  willing  to  sacri- 
fice. I  have  the  honor  to  be, 
Sir, 

Your  obedt.  humble  servt., 

FREDK.  A.  MUHLENBURG. 
A.  HAMILTON,  Esq. 

NO.    XXX 

PHILADELPHIA,  July  9,  1797. 

SIR: 

I  have  received  your  letter  of  the  fifth  instant  by 
the  hands  of  Mr.  Wolcott. 


454  Alexander  Hamilton 

I  had  heard  of  the  pamphlet  you  mention  some 
days  before,  but  had  not  read  it.  I  am  entirely 
ignorant  of  the  Editor,  and  of  the  means  by  which 
he  procured  the  papers  alluded  to. 

I  have  had  nothing  to  do  with  the  transaction 
since  the  interview  with  you.  I  do  not  possess  a 
copy  of  the  papers  at  present,  nor  have  I  at  any 
time  had  the  possession  of  any  of  them.  I  avoided 
taking  a  copy,  because  I  feared  that  the  greatest 
care  which  I  could  exercise  in  keeping  them  safely 
might  be  defeated  by  some  accident,  and  that  some 
person  or  other  might  improperly  obtain  an  inspec- 
tion of  them.  I  have  endeavored  to  recollect  what 
passed  at  the  close  of  the  interview  which  took  place 
with  respect  to  this  transaction:  it  was  said,  I  be- 
lieve, by  us  in  general  terms,  that  we  were  satisfied 
with  the  explanation  that  had  been  given,  that  we 
regretted  the  necessity  we  had  been  subjected  to  in 
being  obliged  to  make  the  inquiry,  as  well  as  the 
trouble  and  anxiety  it  had  occasioned  you;  and  on 
your  part  you  admitted  in  general  terms  that  the 
business  as  presented  to  us  bore  such  a  doubtful  as- 
pect as  to  justify  the  inquiry,  and  that  the  manner 
had  been  satisfactory  to  you. 

I  have  now  to  express  my  surprise  at  the  contents 
of  a  letter  published  yesterday  in  Fenno's  paper,  in 
which  you  endeavor  to  impute  to  party  motives  the 
part  which  I  have  had  in  this  business,  and  endeavor 
to  connect  me  with  the  releasement  of  persons  com- 
mitted as  you  say  for  heinous  crimes.  Clingman  had 
been  released  before  I  heard  of  the  business,  and 
Reynolds  on  the  very  day  I  received  the  first  intima- 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  455 

tion  of  it,  arrangements  having  been  previously 
made  for  that  purpose,  by  those  who  had  interested 
themselves  to  bring  it  about,  so  that  no  application 
was  made  to  me  on  that  subject,  either  directly  or 
indirectly,  the  object  being  entirely  accomplished 
by  other  means,  and  before  I  was  informed  of  their 
confinement.  If  you  will  take  the  trouble  to  exam- 
ine the  transaction  you  will  find  this  statement  cor- 
rect, and  you  cannot  be  insensible  of  the  injury  you 
do  me  when  you  say  this  was  an  attempt  to  release 
themselves  from  imprisonment  by  favor  of  party 
spirit,  and  that  I  was  one  of  the  persons  resorted  to 
on  that  ground.  I  appeal  to  your  candor,  and  ask 
you  if  any  part  of  my  conduct  in  this  whole  business 
has  justified  such  an  imputation.  This  having  been 
a  joint  business,  and  Mr.  Monroe  living  now  in  New 
York,  I  must  avoid  saying  any  thing  more  on  this 
subject  until  I  can  see  him  and  Mr.  Muhlenburg  to- 
gether, which  I  hope  will  be  in  the  present  week. 
I  am,  sir,  your  humble  servant, 

ABM.  B.  VENABLE. 


NO.    XXXII 

Mr.  Monroe  has  the  honor  to  inform  Col.  Hamilton 
that  he  arrived  in  this  city  yesterday  A.M.  12;  that 
Mr.  Muhlenburg  and  himself  are  to  have  a  meeting 
this  morning  upon  the  subject  which  concerns  him, 
and  after  which  Col.  Hamilton  shall  immediately 
hear  from  them. 

Monday  morning,  July  16,  1797. 


Alexander  Hamilton 

NO.    XXXIII 

PHILADELPHIA,  July  17,  1797. 

SIR: 

It  was  our  wish  to  have  given  a  joint  answer  with 
Mr.  Venable  to  your  favor  of  the  5th  instant  con- 
cerning the  publication  of  the  proceedings  in  an  in- 
quiry in  which  we  were  jointly  engaged  with  him  in 
1792,  respecting  an  affair  between  yourself  and  Mr. 
Reynolds;  and  into  which,  from  the  circumstances 
attending  it,  we  deemed  it  our  duty  to  enquire.  His 
departure,  however,  for  Virginia  precludes  the  pos- 
sibility of  so  doing  at  present.  We  nevertheless 
readily  give  such  explanation  upon  that  point  as  we 
are  now  able  to  give ;  the  original  papers  having  been 
deposited  in  the  hands  of  a  respectable  character  in 
Virginia  soon  after  the  transaction  took  place,  and 
where  they  now  are. 

We  think  proper  to  observe  that  as  we  had  no 
agency  in  or  knowledge  of  the  publication  of  these 
papers  till  they  appeared,  so  of  course  we  could  have 
none  in  the  comments  that  were  made  on  them. 

But  you  particularly  wish  to  know  what  the  im- 
pression was  which  your  explanation  of  that  affair 
made  on  our  minds,  in  the  interview  we  had  with 
you  upon  that  subject  at  your  own  house,  as  stated 
in  the  paper  No.  V.,  of  the  publication  referred  to; 
and  to  which  we  readily  reply,  that  the  impression 
which  we  left  in  your  mind,  as  stated  in  that  num- 
ber, was  that  which  rested  on  our  own,  and  which 
was,  that  the  explanation  of  the  nature  of  your  con- 
nection with  Reynolds  which  you  then  gave  removed 
the  suspicions  we  had  before  entertained  of  your 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  457 

being  connected  with  him  in  speculation.  Had  not 
this  been  the  case  we  should  certainly  not  have  left 
that  impression  on  your  mind,  nor  should  we  have 
desisted  from  the  plan  we  had  contemplated  in  the 
commencement  of  the  inquiry,  of  laying  the  papers 
before  the  President  of  the  United  States. 

We  presume  that  the  papers  to  which  our  signa- 
tures are  annexed  are  in  all  cases  correct.  'T  is 
proper  however  to  observe  that  as  the  notes  con- 
tained in  No.  V.  were  intended  only  as  memoranda 
of  the  explanation  which  you  gave  us  in  that  in- 
terview, as  likewise  the  information  which  was 
afterwards  given  us  by  Mr.  Clingman  on  the  same 
subject,  and  without  a  view  to  any  particular  use, 
they  were  entered  concisely  and  without  form.  This 
is  sufficiently  obvious  from  the  difference  which  ap- 
pears in  that  respect,  between  the  papers  which 
preceded  our  interview  and  those  contained  in  No. 
V.  of  the  publication. 

We  cannot  conclude  this  letter  without  expressing 
our  surprise  at  the  contents  of  a  paper  in  the 
Gazette  of  the  United  States  of  the  8th  instant,  which 
states  that  the  proceedings  in  the  inquiry  in  ques- 
tion were  the  contrivance  of  two  very  profligate  men 
who  sought  to  obtain  their  liberation  from  prison  by 
the  favor  of  party  spirit.  You  will  readily  recollect 
that  one  of  those  men,  Mr.  Clingman,  was  never  im- 
prisoned for  any  crime  alleged  against  him  by  the 
Department  of  the  Treasury,  and  that  the  other,  Mr. 
Reynolds,  was  upon  the  point  of  being  released,  and 
was  actually  released,  and  without  our  solicitation; 
or  even  wish,  by  virtue  of  an  agreement  made  with' 


45$  Alexander  Hamilton 

him  by  that  department  before  the  inquiry  began. 
We  feel,  too,  very  sensibly  the  injustice  of  the  inti- 
mation that  any  of  us  were  influenced  by  party 
spirit,  because  we  well  know  that  such  was  not  the 
case;  nor  can  we  otherwise  than  be  the  more  sur- 
prised that  such  an  intimation  should  now  be  given, 
since  we  well  remember  that  our  conduct  upon  that 
occasion  excited  your  sensibility,  and  obtained  from 
you  an  unequivocal  acknowledgment  of  our  candor. 
With  consideration  we  are,  sir, 
Your  most  obedient 

and  very  humble  servants, 

FREDK.  A.  MUHLENBURG. 
JAS.  MONROE. 


NO.  xxxiv 
GENTLEMEN  : 

I  have  your  letter  of  this  date.  It  gives  me  pleas- 
ure to  receive  your  explanation  of  the  ambiguous 
phrase  in  the  paper  No.  V.  published  with  your  sig- 
natures and  that  of  Mr.  Venable,  and  your  informa- 
tion of  the  fact,  that  my  explanation  had  been 
satisfactory  to  you. 

You  express  your  surprise  at  the  contents  of  a 
paper  in  the  Gazette  of  the  United  States  of  the  8th 
instant.  If  you  will  review  that  paper  with  care, 
you  will  find  that  what  is  said  about  party  spirit  refers 
to  the  view  with  which  the  accusation  was  instituted 
by  Reynolds  and  Clingman,  not  to  that  with  which 
the  inquiry  was  entered  into  by  you.  They  sought 
by  the  favor  of  party  spirit  to  obtain  liberation  from 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  459 

prison — but  tho'  they  may  have  rested  their  hopes 
on  this  ground,  it  is  not  said,  nor  in  my  opinion  im- 
plied, that  you  in  making  the  inquiry  were  actuated 
by  that  spirit.  I  cannot,  however,  alter  my  opinion 
that  they  were  influenced  by  the  motive  ascribed  to 
them.  For  though,  as  you  observe,  Clingman  was 
not  in  prison  (and  so  far  my  memory  has  erred),  and 
though  it  be  true  that  Reynolds  was  released  before 
the  inquiry  began  by  virtue  of  an  agreement  with 
the  Treasury  Department  (that  is,  the  Comptroller 
of  the  Treasury),  for  a  reason  of  public  utility  which 
has  been  explained  to  you,  yet  it  will  be  observed 
that  Clingman  as  well  as  Reynolds  was  actually 
under  a  prosecution  for  the  same  offence,  and  that 
it  appears  by  No.  I.  of  the  papers  under  your  signa- 
tures, that  for  a  period  of  more  than  three  weeks, 
while  Clingman  was  in  the  act  of  soliciting  the  "  aid 
and  friendship  of  Mr.  Muhlenburg  on  behalf  of  himself 
and  Reynolds  to  get  them  released  or  discharged  from 
the  prosecution,"  he  Clingman  frequently  dropped 
hints  to  Mr.  Muhlenburg,  that  Reynolds  had  it  in 
his  power  very  materially  to  injure  the  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury  and  that  Reynolds  knew  several  very  im- 
proper transactions  of  his;  and  at  last  went  so  far  as 
to  state  that  "  Reynolds  said  he  had  it  in  his  power  to 
hang  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  who  was  deeply 
concerned  in  speculation. ' '  From  this  it  appears,  that 
the  suggestions  to  my  prejudice  were  early  made,  and 
were  connected  with  the  endeavor  to  obtain  relief 
through  Mr.  Muhlenburg.  I  derive  from  all  this  a 
confirmation  of  my  opinion,  founded  on  the  general 
nature  of  the  proceeding,  that  Reynolds  and  Clingman, 


460  Alexander  Hamilton 

knowing  the  existence  in  Congress  of  a  party  hostile 
to  my  conduct  in  administration,  and  that  the  news- 
papers devoted  to  it  frequently  contained  insinua- 
tions of  my  being  concerned  in  improper  speculations, 
formed  upon  that  basis  the  plan  of  conciliating  the 
favor  and  aid  of  that  party  towards  getting  rid  of 
the  prosecution  by  accusing  me  of  speculation.  This 
is  what  I  meant  in  the  publication  alluded  to  and 
what  I  must  always  believe. 

With  this  explanation,  you  will  be  sensible  that 
there  is  nothing  in  the  publication  inconsistent  with 
my  declaration  to  you  at  closing  our  interview.  It 
is  very  true,  that  after  the  full  and  unqualified  ex- 
pressions which  came  from  you,  together  with  Mr. 
Venable, — differing  in  terms  but  agreeing  in  sub- 
stance,— of  your  entire  satisfaction  with  the  explana- 
tion I  had  given,  and  that  there  was  nothing  in  the 
affair  of  the  nature  suggested,  accompanied  with 
expressions  of  regret  at  the  trouble  and  anxiety  occa- 
sioned to  me, — and  when  (as  I  recollect  it)  some  of 
the  gentlemen  expressed  a  hope  that  the  manner  of 
conducting  the  inquiry  had  appeared  to  me  fair  and 
liberal, — I  replied  in  substance  that  though  I  had 
been  displeased  with  the  mode  of  introducing  the 
subject  to  me  (which  you  will  remember  I  manifested 
at  the  time  in  very  lively  terms),  yet  that  in  other 
respects  I  was  satisfied  with  and  sensible  to  the 
candor  with  which  I  had  been  treated.  And  this 
was  the  sincere  impression  of  my  mind.  With  con- 
sideration I  am,  gentlemen, 

Your  most  obedt.  and  hum.  serv. 

ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  461 

NO.  xxxv 
SIR: 

I  send  herewith  an  answer  to  the  joint  letter  of 
Mr.  Muhlenburg  and  yourself.  It  appears  to  me  on 
reflection  requisite  to  have  some  explanation  on  the 
note  of  January  2,  1793,  with  your  signature  only. 
It  may  be  inferred  from  the  attention  to  record  the 
information  of  Clingman  therein  stated,  after  what 
had  passed  between  us,  that  you  meant  to  give  credit 
and  sanction  to  the  suggestion  that  the  defence  set 
up  by  me  was  an  imposition.  You  will,  I  doubt  not, 
be  sensible  of  the  propriety  of  my  requesting  you  to 
explain  yourself  on  this  point  also. 
I  remain,  with  consideration, 

Sir,  your  obedient  servant, 

ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 


NO.  xxxvi 

PHILADELPHIA,  July  17,  1797. 

SIR: 

It  is  impossible  for  me  to  trace  back  at  this  mo- 
ment, occupied  as  I  am  with  other  concerns,  all  the 
impressions  of  my  mind  at  the  different  periods  at 
which  the  memoranda  were  made  in  the  publication 
to  which  you  refer  in  your  favor  of  to-day,  but  I  well 
remember  that  in  entering  the  one  which  bears  my 
single  signature,  although  I  was  surprised  at  the 
communication  given,  yet  I  neither  meant  to  give 
nor  imply  any  opinion  of  my  own  as  to  its  contents. 
I  simply  entered  the  communication  as  I  received  it, 
reserving  to  myself  the  liberty  to  form  an  opinion 
upon  it  at  such  future  time  as  I  found  convenient, 


462  Alexander  Hamilton 

paying  due  regard  to  all  the  circumstances  connected 
with  it. 

I  am,  sir,  with  consideration, 

Your  very  humble  servant, 

JAMES  MONROE. 


NO.  XXXVII 
SIR: 

Your  letter  of  yesterday  in  answer  to  mine  of  the 
same  date  was  received  last  night.  I  am  sorry  to 
say  that,  as  I  understand  it,  it  is  unsatisfactory.  It 
appears  to  me  liable  to  this  inference,  that  the  infor- 
mation of  Clingman  had  revived  the  suspicions  which 
my  explanation  had  removed.  This  would  include 
the  very  derogatory  suspicion,  that  I  had  concerted 
with  Reynolds  not  only  the  fabrication  of  all  the 
letters  and  documents  under  his  hand,  but  also  the 
forgery  of  the  letters  produced  as  those  of  Mrs.  Rey- 
nolds— since  these  last  unequivocally  contradict  the 
pretence  communicated  by  Clingman.  I  therefore 
request  you  to  say  whether  this  inference  be  intended. 
With  consideration,  I  am,  sir, 

Your  very  obedient  servant, 

ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 
July  18,  1797. 
JAMES  MONROE,  Esqr. 


NO.    XXXVIII 

PHILADELPHIA,  July  18,  1797. 

SIR: 

I  can  only  observe  that  in  entering  the  note  which 
bears  my  single  signature,  I  did  not  convey  or  mean 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  463 

to  convey  any  opinion  of  my  own,  as  to  the  faith 
which  was  due  to  it,  but  left  it  to  stand  on  its  own 
merits,  reserving  to  myself  the  right  to  judge  of  it,  as 
upon  any  fact  afterwards  communicated  according 
to  its  import  and  authenticity. 
With  due  respect  I  am,  sir, 

Your  very  humble  servant, 

JAMES  MONROE. 


NO.  xxxix 

July  20,  1797. 

SIR: 

In  my  last  letter  to  you  I  proposed  a  simple  and 
direct  question,  to  which  I  had  hoped  an  answer 
equally  simple  and  direct.  That  which  I  have  re- 
ceived, though  amounting,  as  I  understand  it,  to  an 
answer  in  the  negative,  is  conceived  in  such  circuitous 
terms  as  may  leave  an  obscurity  upon  the  point 
which  ought  not  to  have  remained.  In  this  situa- 
tion, I  feel  it  proper  to  tell  you  frankly  my  impression 
of  the  matter. 

The  having  any  communication  with  Clingman, 
after  that  with  me,  receiving  from  him  and  record- 
ing information  depending  on  the  mere  veracity  of  a 
man  undeniably  guilty  of  subornation  of  perjury,  and 
one  whom  the  very  documents  which  he  himself  pro- 
duced to  you  showed  sufficiently  I  to  be  the  accom- 
plice of  a  vindictive  attempt  upon  me,  the  leaving  it 
in  a  situation  where,  by  possibility,  it  might  rise  up 
at  a  future  and  remote  day  to  inculpate  me,  without 

1  See  the  letter  from  Reynolds  to  Clingman,  in  which  he  declares  that 
he  will  have  satisfaction  of  me  at  all  events,  and  that  he  trusts  only  to 
Clingman. 


464  Alexander  Hamilton 

the  possibility  perhaps  from  the  lapse  of  time  of 
establishing  the  refutation,  and  all  this  without  my 
privity  or  knowledge,  was,  in  my  opinion,  in  a  high 
degree  indelicate  and  improper.  To  have  given  or 
intended  to  give  the  least  sanction  or  credit,  after 
all  that  was  known  to  you,  to  the  mere  assertion  of 
either  of  the  three  persons — Clingman,  Reynolds,  or 
his  wife — would  have  betrayed  a  disposition  toward 
me  which,  if  it  appeared  to  exist,  would  merit  epi- 
thets the  severest  that  I  could  apply. 
With  consideration  I  am,  sir, 

Your  very  humble  servant, 

ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 
JAMES  MONROE,  Esq. 


NO.  XL 

PHILADELPHIA,  July  21,  1797. 

SIR: 

Your  favor  of  yesterday  (to  use  your  own  language) 
gives  an  indelicate  and  improper  coloring  to  the 
topic  to  which  it  refers.  I  will  endeavor,  in  a  few 
words,  to  place  the  points  in  discussion  where  they 
ought  to  stand. 

It  was  never  our  intention  other  than  to  fulfil  our 
duty  to  the  public,  in  our  inquiry  into  your  conduct, 
and  with  delicacy  and  propriety  to  yourself,  nor  have 
we  done  otherwise. 

To  this  truth,  in  respect  to  the  inquiry  as  to  our 
conduct  upon  that  occasion,  you  have  so  often  as- 
sented, that  nothing  need  now  be  said  on  that  point. 
Indeed,  I  should  have  considered  myself  as  highly 
criminal,  advised  as  I  was  of  your  conduct,  had  I  not 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  465 

united  in  the  inquiry  into  it;  for  what  offence  can  be 
more  reprehensible  in  an  officer,  charged  with  the 
finances  of  his  country,  than  to  be  engaged  in  specu- 
lation? And  what  other  officer,  who  had  reason  to 
suspect  this,  could  justify  himself  for  failing  to  ex- 
amine into  the  truth  of  this  charge?  We  did  so; 
apprised  you  of  what  we  had  done ;  heard  your  ex- 
planation, and  were  satisfied  with  it.  It  is  proper 
to  observe,  that  in  the  explanation  you  gave,  you 
admitted  all  the  facts  upon  which  our  opinion  was 
founded,  but  yet  accounted  for  them,  and  for  your 
connection  with  Reynolds,  on  another  principle. 
T  is  proper  also  to  observe  that  we  admitted  your 
explanation  upon  the  faith  of  your  own  statement, 
and  upon  the  documents  you  presented,  though  I 
do  not  recollect  they  were  proved,  or  that  proof  was 
required  of  them. 

You  will  remember  that  in  this  interview  in  which 
we  acknowledged  ourselves  satisfied  with  the  ex- 
planation you  gave,  we  did  not  bind  ourselves  not  to 
hear  further  information  on  the  subject,  or  even  not 
to  proceed  further  in  case  we  found  it  our  duty  so  to 
do.  This  would  have  been  improper,  because  sub- 
sequent facts  might  be  disclosed  which  might  change 
our  opinion,  and  in  which  case  it  would  be  our  duty 
to  proceed  further.  And  with  respect  to  Mr.  Cling- 
man  we  thought  it  highly  proper  to  hear  what  he 
had  to  say,  because  we  had  before  heard  him  on  the 
subject,  and  because  you  had  acknowledged  all  his 
previous  information  to  be  true,  and  because  he  was 
a  party  and  had  a  right  to  be  heard  on  it.  You 
observe  by  the  entry  that  we  did  not  seek  him,  nor 


VOL.  VII.— 30. 


466  Alexander  Hamilton 

even  apprise  him  of  the  explanation  received  from 
you ;  on  the  contrary,  that  he  sought  us,  and  in  con- 
sequence of  information  received  from  Mr.  Wolcott. 

The  subject  is  now  before  the  public,  and  I  repeat 
to  you  what  I  have  said  before,  that  I  do  not  wish 
any  opinion  of  my  own  to  be  understood  as  con- 
veyed in  the  entry  which  bears  my  single  signature, 
because  when  I  entered  it  I  had  no  opinion  upon 
it,  as  sufficiently  appears  by  my  subsequent  conduct, 
having  never  acted  upon  it,  and  deposited  the  papers 
with  a  friend  when  I  left  my  country,  in  whose  hands 
they  still  are.  Whether  the  imputations  against  you 
as  to  speculation  are  well  or  ill  founded,  depends 
upon  the  facts  and  circumstances  which  appear 
against  you  upon  your  defence.  If  you  show  that 
they  are  ill  founded,  I  shall  be  contented,  for  I  have 
never  undertaken  to  accuse  you  since  our  interview, 
nor  do  I  now  give  any  opinion  on  it,  reserving  to 
myself  the  liberty  to  form  one,  after  I  see  your 
defence ;  being  resolved,  however,  so  far  as  depends 
on  me,  not  to  bar  the  door  to  free  inquiry  as  to  the 
merits  of  the  case  in  either  view. 

This  contains  a  just  state  of  this  affair  so  far  as  I 
remember  it,  which  I  presume  will  be  satisfactory  to 
you:  and  to  which  I  shall  only  add  that  as  on  the 
one  hand  I  shall  always  be  ready  to  do  justice  to  the 
claims  of  any  one  upon  me,  so  I  shall  always  be 
equally  prepared  to  vindicate  my  conduct  and  char- 
acter against  the  attacks  of  any  one  who  may  assail 
them.  With  due  respect,  I  am,  sir, 

Your  obedient  servant, 

JAMES  MONROE. 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  467 

NO.  XLI 
CITY  OF       I 
PHILADELPHIA  ) 

Mary  Williams  of  the  City  aforesaid  Boarding 
House  Keeper  maketh  Oath  that  She  is  acquainted 
with  Mrs.  M.  Reynolds  formerly  reputed  to  be  the 
Wife  of  Mr.  James  Reynolds  that  her  acquaintance 
commenced  by  the  said  Mrs.  Reynolds  calling  upon 
her  to  obtain  admission  as  a  lodger  which  the 
Deponent  declined  that  afterwards  the  Deponent 
frequently  saw  the  said  Mrs.  Reynolds  and  also  fre- 
quently saw  her  write  that  from  this  she  the  Depon- 
ent conceives  herself  to  be  well  acquainted  with  the 
hand  writing  of  the  said  Mrs.  Reynolds  and  is  well 
satisfied  that  the  handwriting  of  the  letters  hereunto 
annexed  numbered  I— VIII— IX— X— XII— XIII- 
is  of  the  proper  handwriting  of  the  said  Mrs.  Rey- 
nolds to  identify  which  letters  the  more  particularly 
this  Deponent  hath  upon  each  of  them  endorsed  her 
name. 

Sworn  this  XXIst  day  of   ) 

July  MDCCXCVIL  be-  V  MARY  WILLIAMS 

fore  me  ) 

ROBERT  WHARTON 

One  of  the  Aldermen  of  the 
City  of  Philadelphia. 


NO.    XLII 

Wednesday  5th,  December,  1792. 
HONNOURED   SlR, 

too  well  you  are  acquainted  with  my  unfortenate 
setuvation,  to  give  you  an  explanation  thereof,  I  am 


468  Alexander  Hamilton 

informed  by  a  Note  from  Mrs.  Reynolds  this  Eve- 
ning, wherein  She  informed  Me  that  you  have  bin 
informed,  that  I  Should  have  Said,  if  I  were  not  dis- 
charged in  two  days,  that  I  would  make  Some  of  the 
heads  of  the  Departments  tremble,  now  Sir  I  de- 
clare to  god,  that  I  never  have  said  any  Such  thing, 
nor  never  have  I  said  any  thing,  against  any  Head 
of  a  department  whatever,  all  I  have  Said,  Sir.  is 
that  I  am  under  the  Necessaty  of  letting  you  Know, 
which  of  the  Clarks  in  the  publick  Office  has  givein 
out  the  List,  of  the  ballance  due.  from  the  United 
States,  to  the  individual  States,  and  when  it  Comes 
to  your  knowledge,  that  the  would  tremble,  Now 
Can  I  have  an  Enemy  So  base  as  to  lodge  such  False 
allegations  to  my  Charge,  which  is  tottely  Ground- 
less, and  without  the  least  foundation  Immaginable. 
now  Sir,  if  you  will  give  me  the  pleashure  of  waiting 
uppon  your  honour  tomorrow  I  will  give  you  every 
information  that  lies  in  my  power  Respecting  the 
Matter,  which  I  hope  it  will  give  you  final  Satisfac- 
tion, what  I  have  done  never  Was  with  a  wish  to 
Rong  the  United  States  or  any  Other  person  what- 
ever, the  person  that  Administer  On  this  mans  pay. 
which  he  Received  from  the  United  States,  had  my 
monies  in  his  hands  and  would  not  transfer  the  Cer- 
tificate to  Mrs.  Clingman  and  myself  untill  wee 
signed  the  bond  of  indamnification.  to  him  now  dear 
Sir.  that  was  our  Situvation.  to  Secure  our  own  In- 
terest, wee  executed  the  Bond,  which  was  an  Over- 
sight of  ours,  now  Sir  Can  you  Suppose  In  my  present 
Setuvation,  that  I  would  say  anything  against  you 
Sir  or  any  Other  head  of  department  whatever, 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  469 

where  it  even  was  in  my  power  which  was  not. 
Especially   where   all   my  hopes   and   Dependance 
where,  now  dear  Sir,  think  of  my  poor  innocent, 
family,  not  of  me  for  them  I  Onely  wish  to  live 
I  am,  honnored  Sir 

Your  most  Obediant  and 
Humble  Servt. 

JAMES  W,  REYNOLDS. 
OLIVER  WOOLCOT  Esqr. 


NO.  XLIII 

Having  seen  in  a  pamphlet  published  in  Philadel- 
phia, entitled  The  History  of  the  United  States,  No  V 
a  paragraph  to  the  following  effect: 

"  During  the  late  canvass  for  the  election  of  a 
"  President,  Webster,  in  his  Minerva,  gave  a  hint 
"that  Mr.  Hamilton  would  be  an  advisable  can- 
"  didate.     A  person  in  this  city,  who  chanced  to 
"  see  this  newspaper,  wrote  immediately  to  a  cor- 
"  respondent  in  New  York.     The  letter  desired 
"him  to  put  himself  in  the  way  of  Mr.  Hamilton, 
"  and  inform  him  that  if  Webster  should  in  future 
"print  a  single  paragraph  on  that  head,  the  papers 
"  referred  to  were  instantly  to  be  laid  before  the 
"  world.     The  message  was  delivered  to  Mr.  Ham- 
"  ilton  and  the  Minerva  became  silent." 
I  declare  that  the  contents  of  the  foregoing  para- 
graph, as  far  as  they  relate  to  myself,  are  totally 
false.     I  never  entertained  an  idea  that  Mr.  Hamil- 
ton was  a  candidate  for  the  Presidency  or  Vice- 
Presidency  at  the  late  election.     I  never  uttered, 


47°  Alexander  Hamilton 

wrote,  or  published  a  hint  or  suggestion  of  the  kind; 
nor  did  I  ever  receive  from  Mr.  Hamilton  or  any 
other  person,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  any  hint  or 
communication  to  discontinue  any  notice  or  sugges- 
tions on  that  subject.  I  have  examined  the  Minerva 
for  several  months  previous  to  the  late  election,  and 
I  cannot  find  a  suggestion  published  in  that  paper,  of 
Mr.  Hamilton's  being  a  candidate  as  aforesaid,  either 
from  any  correspondent  or  republished  from  any 
other  paper;  nor  have  I  the  least  knowledge  what 
the  suggestions  in  the  foregoing  paragraph  allude  to. 
My  own  idea  uniformly  was,  that  Mr.  Adams  and 
Mr.  Pinckney  were  the  only  candidates  supported  by 
Mr.  Hamilton  and  the  friends  of  our  government  in 
general. 

Sworn  the  i3th  July,  1797,        ) 
before  me,  ABM.  SKINNER,  N.  P.  } 

NOAH  WEBSTER,  JUN. 


NO.  XLIV 

PHILADELPHIA,  June  27,  1797. 

SIR: 

It  would  have  highly  gratified  me  had  it  been  in 
my  power  to  furnish  the  relief  you  ask;  but  I  am 
preparing  for  my  departure,  and  find,  on  winding  up 
my  affairs,  that  I  shall  not  have  one  dollar  to  spare. 
It  is,  therefore,  with  sincere  regret  I  have  nothing 
better  to  tender  you  than  the  sentiments  of  good 
will  of 

Sir,  Your  most  obedient  servant, 

TH.  JEFFERSON. 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  471 

NO.  XLV 

PHILADELPHIA,  June  28,  1797. 

SIR: 

I  know  well  that  you  were  a  clerk  in  the  Treasury 
Department  while  I  was  in  the  office  of  Secretary  of 
State;  but  as  I  had  no  relation  with  the  interior 
affairs  of  that  office,  I  had  no  opportunity  of  being 
acquainted  with  you  personally,  except  the  single 
occasion  on  which  you  called  on  me.  The  length  of 
time  you  were  in  the  office  affords  the  best  presump- 
tion in  your  favor,  and  the  particular  misunderstand- 
ing which  happened  to  you  with  your  principals  may 
account  for  your  not  having  obtained  from  them 
those  certificates  of  character  which  I  am  not  able 
to  supply.  I  doubt  not,  however,  that  a  knowledge 
of  your  conduct,  wherever  you  establish  yourself, 
will  soon  render  all  certificates  unnecessary,  and  I 
sincerely  wish  you  may  obtain  employment  which 
may  evince  and  reward  good  conduct. 

I  am,  sir,  Your  very  humble  servant, 

TH.  JEFFERSON. 


NO.  XLVI 
SIR: 

I  have  maturely  considered  your  letter  of  yester- 
day, delivered  to  me  at  about  nine  last  night,  and 
cannot  find  in  it  cause  of  satisfaction. 

There  appears  to  me,  in  the  first  place,  an  attempt 
to  prop  the  veracity  of  Clingman  by  an  assertion 
which  is  not  correct  —  namely,  that  I  had  acknow- 
ledged all  his  previous  information  to  be  true.  This 


472  Alexander  Hamilton 

was  not  and  could  not  be  the  fact.  I  acknowledged 
parts  of  it  to  be  true,  but  certainly  not  the  whole. 
On  the  contrary,  I  am  able  to  prove  that  a  material 
part  of  it,  according  to  its  obvious  intent,  is  false, 
and  I  know  other  parts  of  it  to  be  so.  Indeed,  in 
one  sense,  I  could  not  have  made  the  acknowledg- 
ment alleged  without  acknowledging  myself  guilty. 

In  the  second  place,  there  appears  a  design  at  all 
events  to  drive  me  to  the  necessity  of  a  formal  de- 
fence, while  you  know  that  the  extreme  delicacy  of 
its  nature  must  be  very  disagreeable  to  me.  It  is 
my  opinion  that,  as  you  have  been  the  cause,  no 
matter  how,  of  the  business  appearing  in  a  shape 
which  gives  it  an  adventitious  importance,  and  this 
against  the  intent  of  a  confidence  reposed  in  you  by 
me,  as  contrary  to  what  was  delicate  and  proper,  you 
recorded  Clingman's  testimony  without  my  privity 
and  thereby  gave  it  countenance,  as  I  had  given  you 
an  explanation  with  which  you  was  satisfied,  and 
which  could  leave  no  doubt  upon  a  candid  mind,  it 
was  incumbent  upon  you,  as  a  man  of  honor  and 
sensibility,  to  have  come  forward  in  a  manner  that 
would  have  shielded  me  completely  from  the  un- 
pleasant effects  brought  upon  me  by  your  agency. 
This  you  have  not  done. 

On  the  contrary,  by  the  affected  reference  of  the 
matter  to  a  defence  which  I  am  to  make,  and  by 
which  you  profess  your  opinion  is  to  be  decided — you 
imply  that  your  suspicions  are  still  alive.  And  as 
nothing  appears  to  have  shaken  your  original  con- 
viction but  the  wretched  tale  of  Clingman,  which 
you  have  thought  fit  to  record,  it  follows  that  you 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  473 

are  pleased  to  attach  a  degree  of  weight  to  that  com- 
munication which  cannot  be  accounted  for  on  any 
fair  principles.  The  result,  in  my  mind,  is  that  you 
have  been  and  are  actuated  by  motives  towards  me 
malignant  and  dishonorable;  nor  can  I  doubt  that 
this  will  be  the  universal  opinion,  when  the  publica- 
tion of  the  whole  affair  which  I  am  about  to  make 
shall  be  seen. 

I  am,  sir, 

Your  humble  servant, 

ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 
PHILADELPHIA,  July  22,  1797. 
J.  MONROE,  Esq. 


NO.  XLVII 

PHILADELPHIA,  July  25,  1797. 

SIR: 

I  received  your  letter  of  the  22d  instant  by  Major 
Jackson,  and  have  paid  it  the  attention  it  merits. 

Always  anxious  to  do  justice  to  every  one,  it 
would  afford  me  pleasure  could  I  answer  it  in  a 
manner  satisfactory  to  your  feelings;  but  while  the 
respect  which  I  owe  to  myself  forbids  me  replying  in 
that  harsh  style  which  you  have  adopted,  that  same 
respect,  with  an  attention  to  truth,  according  to  the 
impressions  existing  on  my  mind,  will  compel  me 
upon  all  occasions  to  place  this  affair  on  its  true 
ground. 

Why  you  have  adopted  this  style  I  know  not.  If 
your  object  is  to  render  this  affair  a  personal  one 
between  us  you  might  have  been  more  explicit,  since 
you  well  know,  if  that  is  your  disposition,  what  my 


474  Alexander  Hamilton 

determination  is,  and  to  which  I  shall  firmly  adhere. 
But  if  it  is  to  illustrate  truth,  and  place  the  question 
on  its  true  merits,  as  I  have  always  been  disposed  to 
do,  it  appears  illy  calculated  to  promote  that  end. 

I  have  constantly  said  and  I  repeat  again,  that  in 
making  an  entry  which  appears  after  our  interview 
with  you,  and  which  ought  to  have  been  signed  by 
the  other  gentlemen  as  well  as  myself,  I  never  in- 
tended to  convey  an  opinion  upon  it,  nor  does  it 
convey  any  opinion  of  my  own,  but  merely  notes 
what  Clingman  stated,  leaving  it  upon  his  own 
credit  only.  But  you  wish  me  to  state  that  this 
communication  made  no  impression  on  my  mind, 
and  this  I  shall  not  state,  because  in  so  doing  I 
should  be  incorrect.  On  the  other  hand,  I  do  not 
wish  to  be  understood  as  intimating  that  this  com- 
munication had  absolutely  changed  my  opinion,  for 
in  that  event  I  should  have  acted  on  it,  whereas,  the 
contrary  was  the  case  as  you  well  know.  And  with 
respect  to  the  propriety  of  noting  down  that  com- 
munication, I  have  no  doubt  on  that  point,  since  I 
should  have  noted  any  other  that  might  have  been 
made  on  the  same  topic  by  that  or  any  other  party. 
Indeed  if  it  was  proper  to  note  the  communications 
first  received,  it  was  equally  so  to  note  this,  and 
that  you  did  not  disapprove.  Had  we  proceeded 
in  it  you  may  be  well  assured  we  should  have  ap- 
prised you  of  it,  as  in  the  other  case,  as  well  as  from 
motives  of  candor  towards  you,  as  propriety  on  our 
own  parts. 

It  is  not  my  wish  to  discuss  the  fact  whether  you 
admitted  all  or  only  parts  of  Clingman 's  communica- 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  475 

tion  in  our  interview  with  you,  because  upon  the 
principle  in  which  I  stand  engaged  in  this  affair,  not 
as  your  accuser,  but  called  on  to  explain,  it  is  one 
of  no  importance  to  me.  Such  was  the  impression 
upon  my  mind;  if,  however,  the  contrary  were  the 
case,  and  you  showed  it  to  be  so,  I  should  be  equally 
contented  as  if  it  were  otherwise,  since  it  is  my  wish 
that  truth  appear  in  her  genuine  character,  upon  the 
present,  as  upon  all  other  occasions. 

I  am,  sir,  with  due  respect, 

Your  obedient  servant, 

JAMES  MONROE. 


NO.  XLVIII 

NEW  YORK,  July  28,  1797. 

SIR: 

Your  letter  of  the  2$th  instant  reached  me  yester- 
day. 

Without  attempting  to  analyze  the  precise  import 
of  your  expressions  in  that  particular,  and  really  at 
a  loss  for  your  meaning  when  you  appeal  to  my 
knowledge  of  a  determination  to  which  you  say  you 
should  firmly  adhere,  I  shall  observe,  in  relation  to 
the  idea  of  my  desiring  to  make  the  affair  personal 
between  us,  that  it  would  be  no  less  unworthy  of  me 
to  seek  than  to  shun  such  an  issue.  It  was  my 
earnest  wish  to  have  experienced  a  conduct  on  your 
part  such  as  was,  in  my  opinion,  due  to  me,  to  your- 
self, and  to  justice.  Thinking,  as  I  did,  on  the  cool- 
est reflection,  that  this  had  not  been  the  case,  I  did 
not  hesitate  to  convey  to  you  the  impressions  which 


476  Alexander  Hamilton 

I   entertained,   prepared  for   any   consequences   to 
which  it  might  lead. 

Nevertheless,  it  would  have  been  agreeable  to  me 
to  have  found  in  your  last  letter  sufficient  cause  for 
relinquishing  those  impressions.  But  I  cannot  say 
that  I  do.  The  idea  is  every  way  inadmissible,  that 
Clingman's  last  miserable  contrivance  should  have 
had  weight  to  shake,  though  not  absolutely  change, 
the  opinion  which  my  explanation  had  produced; 
and  that,  having  such  an  effect,  it  should  have  been 
recorded  and  preserved  in  secret,  without  the  slight- 
est intimation  to  me.  There  was  a  vast  difference 
between  what  might  have  been  proper  before  and 
after  my  explanation ;  though  I  am  not  disposed  to 
admit  that  the  attention  which  was  paid  to  such 
characters,  even  before,  would  have  been  justifiable, 
had  it  not  been  for  the  notes  in  my  handwriting. 

But  the  subject  is  too  disgusting  to  leave  me  any 
inclination  to  prolong  this  discussion  of  it.  The  pub- 
lic explanation  to  which  I  am  driven  must  decide, 
as  far  as  public  opinion  is  concerned,  between  us. 
Painful  as  the  appeal  will  be  in  one  respect,  I  know 
that  in  the  principal  point  it  must  completely  answer 
my  purpose.  I  am,  sir, 

Your  humble  servant, 

ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 


NO.  XLIX 

PHILADELPHIA,  July  31,  1797. 

SIR: 

Your  letter  of  the  28th,  which  I  have  received, 

claims  a  short  answer. 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  477 

I  have  stated  to  you  that  I  have  no  wish  to  do  you 
a  personal  injury.  The  several  explanations  which 
I  have  made  accorded  with  truth  and  my  ideas  of 
propriety.  Therefore  I  need  not  repeat  them.  If 
these  do  not  yield  you  satisfaction,  I  can  give  you 
no  other,  unless  called  on  in  a  way  which,  for  the  il- 
lustration of  truth,  I  wish  to  avoid,  but  which  I  am 
ever  ready  to  meet.  This  is  what  I  meant  by  that 
part  of  my  letter  which  you  say  you  do  not  under- 
stand. 

With  due  respect,  I  am,  sir, 

Your  humble  servant, 

JAS.  MONROE. 
ALEXANDER  HAMILTON,  Esq. 


NO.  L 

(Copy.) 

NEW  YORK,  August  4,  1797. 

SIR: 

In  my  opinion  the  idea  of  a  personal  affair  between 
us  ought  not  to  have  found  a  place  in  your  letters, 
or  it  ought  to  have  assumed  a  more  positive  shape. 
In  the  state  to  which  our  correspondence  had 
brought  the  question,  it  lay  with  you  to  make  the 
option  whether  such  an  issue  should  take  place.  If 
what  you  have  said  be  intended  as  an  advance 
towards  it,  it  is  incumbent  upon  me  not  to  decline 
it.  On  the  supposition  that  it  is  so  intended,  I  have 
authorized  Major  Jackson  to  communicate  with  you 
and  to  settle  time  and  place. 

I  am,  sir,  Your  humble  servant, 

ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 
JAMES  MONROE,  Esq. 


Alexander  Hamilton 


NO.  LI 

PHILADELPHIA,  August  6,  1797. 

SIR: 

I  do  not  clearly  understand  the  import  of  your 
letter  of  the  4th  instant,  and  therefore  desire  an  ex- 
planation. With  this  view  I  will  give  an  explana- 
tion of  mine  which  preceded. 

Seeing  no  adequate  cause,  by  any  thing  in  our 
late  correspondence,  why  I  should  give  a  challenge 
to  you,  I  own  it  was  not  my  intention  to  give  or  even 
provoke  one  by  any  thing  contained  in  those  letters. 
I  meant  only  to  observe  that  I  should  stand  on  the 
defensive,  and  receive  one  if  you  thought  fit  to  give 
it.  If,  therefore,  you  were  under  a  contrary  im- 
pression, I  frankly  own  you  are  mistaken.  If,  on 
the  other  hand,  you  meant  this  last  letter  as  a  chal- 
lenge to  me,  I  have  then  to  request  that  you  will  say 
so,  and  in  which  case,  have  to  inform  you  that  my 
friend,  Col.  Burr,  who  will  present  you  this,  and  who 
will  communicate  with  you  on  the  subject,  is  au- 
thorized to  give  my  answer  to  it,  and  to  make  such 
other  arrangements  as  may  be  suitable  in  such  an 
event. 

With  due  respect,  I  am, 

Your  very  humble  servt, 

JAMES  MONROE. 

A.  HAMILTON,  Esq. 


NO.  LII 

NEW  YORK,  August  9,  1797. 

SIR: 

The  intention  of  my  letter  of  the  4th  instant,  as 
itself  imports,  was  to  meet  and  close  with  an  ad- 


The  Reynolds  Pamphlet  479 

vance  towards  a  personal  interview,  which  it  ap- 
peared to  me  had  been  made  by  you. 

From  the  tenor  of  your  reply  of  the  6th,  which 
disavows  the  inference  I  had  drawn,  any  further  step 
on  my  part,  as  being  inconsistent  with  the  ground  I 
have  heretofore  taken,  would  be  improper. 
I  am,  sir, 

Your  humble  servant, 

ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 
JAMES  MONROE,  Esq. 

N.  B. — It  may  be  proper  to  observe  that,  in  addi- 
tion to  the  original  letters  of  Mrs.  Reynolds,  there 
are  in  the  hands  of  the  gentlemen  with  whom  the 
papers  are  deposited,  two  original  letters  from  her, 
one  addressed  to  Mr.  R.  Folwell — the  other  to  a  Mrs. 
Miller,  and  both  of  them  signed  MARIA  CLINGMAN, 
in  the  former  of  which  she  mentions  the  circum- 
stance of  her  being  married  to  Clingman. 

END  OF   VOL.   VII. 


THIS    BOOK    IS    DUE   ON    THE    LAST    DATE 
STAMPED  BELOW 


AN  INITIAL  FINE  OF  25  CENTS 

WILL  BE  ASSESSED  FOR  FAILURE  TO  RETURN  THIS  BOOK 
ON  THE  DATE  DUE.  THE  PENALTY  WILL  INCREASE  TO 
50  CENTS  ON  THE  FOURTH  DAY  AND  TO  $1.00  ON  THE 
SEVENTH  DAY  OVERDUE. 


JAN  2  8  1- 

}D  LIBRARY 


ok  Slip-20m-9,'60(B3010s4)458 


^ 

213626 

E302 
H3 
190U 

Hamilton,  A. 
Works. 

v.7 

B 


rov\ 


'  *> 


213626 


