6 March 3, 1788 Cyrus Griffin to Thomas FitzSimons Dear Sir March 3. 1788. My little woman has forgotten to write to me about a change of lodgings, and I was so negligent to omit an answer to your former very obliging and friendly letter. I shall be very happy that you advise lady C. 1 what is the better plan to be adopted; I do not like my family to be in a house with boarders; nor do I know any thing of the other situation; but to your Judgment we shall submit implicidy and with satisfaction—if the family come to N. York it may not be convenient untill the last of April, perhaps not at all. We expect a packet every day which may possibly bring us some In telligence from abroad—in the mean time we are told that the King has consented to the Protestant Edict in France, which not only toler ates all non-Catholics, but gives them admission into Government &c. This important change has been effected principally by the Arch bishop of Toulouse and the parliaments: France is hastening by this and other great affairs already in agitation to adopt the real principles of freedom & human Nature, and will in all probability be exhibited as one of the most illustrious nations the world has ever seen. N. Hampshire, I am very sorry to tell you that the convention have seper- ated without taking a question upon the important business of the constitution; it seems that the federal Members were apprehensive of a negative, and therefore came into the measure of an Adjournment untill June. 2 I consider this price of conduct as very unfortunate in deed, for nine states will not have agreed to the system before Virginia shall be assembled; this will make her in fact the preponderating state of the union; and being so placed I fear the consequences; perhaps Rhode Island may take up the discussion and accord with the plan, the best men of the country are very busy to that purpose, but as yet they appear a minority—we are parting with our valuable friend Madi son to Virginia from Congress, but still I am doubtful that all his virtues and abilities will avail nothing. Be so kind as to make my best regards to Mrs. Fitzsimons—I hope she continues in good health this very severe season—the weather fret’s my constitution to atoms almost—it is too cold for a southern fabrick. I am dear sir, With the highest esteem & consideration, Your most obedient C Griffin RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 That is, Griffin’s wife, Lady Christina Stuart, eldest daughter of the 6th earl of Traquair. DAB. 2 For the impact on other states of the adjournment of the New Hampshire conven tion from February 22 to June 18, see Doc. Hist, of Ratif, 16:179-85.
