March 3,1788 7 James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir N. York Mar. 3. [17] 88. The Convention of N. Hampshire have disappointed much the gen eral expectation. Instead of adopting the Constitution they have ad journed without any final decision until June; this expedient being found necessary to prevent a rejection. It seems that a majority of 3 or 4 members would have voted in the negative, but in this majority were a number who had been proselyted by the discussions, but were bound by positive instructions. These concurred with the federalists in the adjournment, and carried by a majority of 57 agst. 47. It is not much doubted that in the event N. Hampshire will be among the adopting States. But the influence of this check will be very consider able in this State (N. York) and in several others. I have enquired whether June was preferred for the 2d meeting, from any reference to Virga, or N. York, and am informed that it was merely an accommoda tion to the intermediate annual elections & Courts. I am just setting out for Virga, and shall not write again from this place. 1 I wish you every happiness & am Dr Sir, Yr Affe friend, Js. Madison Jr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 10:554. 1 By November 1787 Madison had become convinced that he must return to Virginia to stand for election to the Virginia ratifying convention from Orange Co., for which see Madison to Ambrose Madison, November 8, 1787. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear friend N. York Mar. 3. [17]88. The Convention of N. Hampshire have disappointed the general expectation. They have not rejected the Constitution, but they have adjourned without adopting it. It was found that on a final question there would be a majority of 3 or 4 in the negative but in this number were included some who with instructions from their Towns against the Constitution, had been proselyted by the discussions. These con curring with the federalists in the adjournment, carried it by 57 agst. 47 if I am rightly informed as to the numbers. The second meeting is not to be till the last week in June. I have enquired from the Gentle man from that quarter what particularly recommended so late a day, supposing it might refer to the times fixed by N.Y. & Virga. They tell me it was governed by the intermediate annual elections and Courts. If the opposition in that State be such as they are described it is not probable that they pursue any sort of plan, more than that of Massts.
