March 17,1788 15 sachusetts adopted it in the manner She did—both parties seemed rather to consider the question as setded—that it must be adopted also by the other States, and amended afterwards. But the unexpected Con duct of New Hamshire and late intilligence from Virginia and North Carolina, appear to make the adoption of the Constitution much more doubtful—and all parties here consider the great question far from being dicided—the opponents in this State, in Virginia and North Car olina I find say they have a very considerable majority—the Supporters of the Constitution are doubtful. I confess it is my opinion, notwith standing, that all these States will adopt it—recommending amend ments—perhaps, some in addition to those recommended by Massa. I need not mention to you how important it is to keep the minds of men Cool and temperate at this time, particularly by keeping up the forms of Government and the appearances of Tranquility. Matters seem to be in a state of quiet in Europe at present, but I do not think they will remain so long. We hear nothing from that quarter that respects us particularly—except that our friends the Dutch are very pressing for their interest money, and I expect Congress will make a short statement to the States on this subject. The States must apply some small sums at least to the use of the Union or the Federal Government must be dissolved. I am at a loss to know how the board of Treasury have done so well as they have to pay the civil list, the Dutch interest and troops in a considerable part. I believe the Union has been Supported almost wholly for a year or two past on the pay ments of New York, the gleanings of new Emission money, and a litde tobacco from North Carolina. We have as usual much said about an Indian war. I doubt whether there will be anything more than party disputes among the plunder ing individuals. Kentucky and Virginia have form [al] ly applied to Congress to ac knowledge the Independance of the former and to admit it into the Union. Nothing of importance has yet been done in Congress relative to the subject and, probably, there will not be at present. With the highest sentiments of esteem and respect I am dear sir, Your obdt servant, N. Dane RC (CCamarSJ: Edward J. Doheny Signers Collection). 1 Although Congress did not adjourn, it was unable to convene a quorum from March 27 to May 2. See JCC, 34:115-19. John Brown to Janies Breckinridge Dear Breckinridge New York March 17th. [17]88 I had the pleasure to receive your favor of the 12th of Feby & am happy to find that you are still disposed to continue a Correspon-
