16 March 17,1788 dence from which I promise myself much pleasure & information dur ing my stay in this place; where from the remoteness of my situation & the difficoulty of Conveyance I am cut off from all communication with my Relations & even from any intilligence respecting them ex cept through you. I expect that Brother James 1 has before this time bid adieu to Wm. & Mary & set out for Kentucky big with the prospect of making money & of receiving that reward which so many years spent in a painful course of study Justly merit. He has my warmest wishes for his favorable reception & Success in the world. I flatter my self that his Genius & acquired Knowledge will enable him to make his way good at least in that Country where as yet he will not meet with powerful opponents. I have at length presented the Kentucky address to Congress & from the apparent disposition of Congress at present relative to that Business I fear I shall meet with no small difficoulty in obtaining the Independence of that District. 2 The Objections are the want of power by the Articles of Confederation to admit a new State into the Union. That the admission of Kentucky is contrary to the Eastern Interest as it would throw another Vote into the Western or rather Southern Scale—that therefore it would affect the adoption of the New Plan of Govt, in Eastern States. The reasonableness of the request of the Dis trict is admitted by all—but the policy of the measure is disputed. I shall spare no pains or Arguments in my power to effect this measure which I have much at heart—as I am fully convinced that the future tranquility & Glory of that Country very much depend upon the event. Knowing you to be much interested in the issue of this Business I shall from time to time give you a particular account of its progress. It now stands refered to a committee of the Whole. I am sorry that I have it not in my power to give you a favorable Account relative to the Success of the New Constitution. The Convention of N. Hampshire adj’d. without adopting it ‘till June next a majority of the members having been instructed to reject it; there is little doubt but that it will finally be adopted in that State, yet I fear the present failure will be productive of bad consequences as it will give fresh spirits & Confi dence to the Malcontents who were begining to dispair & relax in their opposition. Although Penselva, has adopted it yet there is a very powerful party opposed who are growing very tumultuous—having been exasperated by the intemperate zeal of the friends to the Plan. I really dread the Consequences of its rejection—It has already damn’d the present Govt, in the estimation of the World, it cannot, it will not drag on much longer, & should the new be rejected God only knows what will be the event. From the present Situation & disposition of the States there is little foundation to hope that any new plan can be brought forward less exceptionable than that now proposed. I hope Virginia will not be so blind to her own Interest & that of the Union as
