March 23, 1788 23 to make the proposed promotion and forward me a Commission as soon as may be convenient I beg leave to observe—that, at this time it would be very acceptable. Though I had always a grateful sense of your Excellys. politeness in proposing the appointment, it was never a favorite object. I am now prompted to it by the Spirit of the times and have taken the liberty to communicate my Sentiments that Your Ex cellency may view the affair in its connexion with the public good and determine as may seem most conducive thereto. With sentiment of the most sincere Respect, I have the Honor to be, Your Excellencys Most Obedient and Most Humble servant, N. Gilman RC (DLC: Peter Force Miscellany). 1 Notwithstanding Edmund C. Burnett’s speculation that Gilman was referring to Patrick Henry and George Mason, it seems clear that Gilman’s concern here was the opposition to the Constitution in New Hampshire, and that he had in mind two of the most formidable opponents of the document in that state, Nathaniel Peabody and Jonathan Moulton. Cf. Burnett, Letters, 8:709n; and Jere R. Daniell, Experiment in Repub licanism. New Hampshire Politics and the American Revolution, 1741-1794 (Cambridge: Har vard University Press, 1970), pp. 184r-85, 197, 203, 212. Virginia Delegates to Edmund Randolph Sir New York March 23d. 1788 The Claim of Virginia arrising from the N Western Territory is still before a Committee of Congress. Colo. Heath is right in Opinion that more advantageous terms may be obtained by Negotiation than after a well digested report. At present we think it a reasonable expectation that if the Commis sioner on the part of Virginia was Authorised to enter again upon the Business it might be Adjusted fully as much to the Satisfaction of the Commonwealth as the Nature, Circumstances, & Situation of things will Warrant. 1 We have the honor to be with profound respect & esteem Sir, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient Hble Servants, Cyrus Griffin J. Brown RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Brown and signed by Brown and Griffin. 1 For the “Claim of Virgininia arrising from the N Western Territory” and the com missioners' negotiating stalemate, see James Madison to Randolph, March 3, note 1. William Heth, the Virginia commissioner, had already ascertained from committee members appointed March 3 to study the state’s claims that they were reluctant to issue a report. In fact, Heth reported to Gov. Randolph on March 9 that chairman Jeremiah Wadsworth thought “it would be a damnd disagreeable piece of work to bring before Congress.” Continental Congress Papers, Vi. In his diary Heth recorded meetings and
