24 March 23,1788 conversations with members of Congress while in New York between February 29 and May 16, and on March 21 he noted that “the Virga. Delegation, thinking with me, that there is a chance of negotiating the business on better terms, than if it should be re ported, have wrote this day to the Governor on the Subject of investing me with powers to enter again thereon. Wrote myself very fully to the Governor on the nature, & critical situation of the business.” William Heth Diary, DLC. The delegates enclosed Heth’s March 21 letter with this of the 23rd and on April 7th the Virginia Council responded by directing Heth to enter again “on the settlement and adjustment of said accounts... either in conjunction with the two present Commissioners or with such other Commissioners as may be appointed for that purpose.” See Journals of the Virginia Council, 4:226; and Cal. o/Va. State Papers, 4:406, 414-16. For the resolution of the state’s claims, see Virginia Delegates to Heth, April 20. Jeremiah Wadsworth to Mehitable Wadsworth My dear friend New York March 23. 1788 I am not able to leave New York so soon as I intended—the ill health of Col Cook prevents. The Children are very well & in good Spirits—on Monday the last of March I shall leave this place. My love to sisters & Harriet. 1 I am, Your Affectionate Husband, J Wadsworth RC (CtHi: Wadsworth Papers). 1 Wadsworth also wrote to Harriet this day, reporting the change in his plans to re turn home and requesting that she send him some seeds for a friend. Ibid. Cyrus Griffin to James Madison My dear sir N. York 24 March 1788. Before the date of this letter I hope you are gotten safe to Orange, and found all things in a situation the most agreeable. We are still going forward in the same tract of Seven states, of course not a great deal can be done, and indeed not a great deal to do. A prospect of the new Constitution seems to deaden the activity of the human mind as to all other matters; and yet I greatly fear that con stitution may never take place; a melancholy Judgment most cer tainly—and would to heaven that nothing under the Sun shall be more erroneous! The adjournment of N. Hampshire, the small majority of Mas- sachusets, a certainty of rejection in Rhode Island, the formidable op position in the state of N. York, the convulsions and Committee meet ings in Pennsylvania, and above all the antipathy of Virginia to the system, operating together, I am apprehensive will prevent the noble
