March 24, 1788 27 scribers, though the ordinance still allowed printers to exchange single copies of news papers postage free. Already aroused by the new ordinance, printers were further aggrieved when Hazard’s new system using postriders north of Philadelphia began to break down as riders refused to carry newspapers, threw them away, or sold them en route. By March 1788 publishers from every state complained that they had ceased to receive traditional exchanges, and antifederalist printers such as Thomas Greenleaf in New York and Eleazar Oswald in Philadelphia asserted that the new postal arrange ments were specifically aimed at them. Opponents of the Constitution further con tended that their letters were often lost, stolen or tampered with. (See, for example, Benjamin Contee to Congress, March 17.) For the accusation that “the Postmaster Gen eral through his chain of patronage—postmasters and postriders—had cut America’s vital link of communication" by preventing antifederalist printers and politicians from disseminating their message to the people, see Doc. Hist, of Ratif., 16:540-96, especially p. 541. See also Samuel A. Otis to George Thatcher, April 13, note 2. On February 20 a committee appointed on the motion of New Jersey’s Jonathan Day ton was directed to propose methods “for preventing irregularities in the transportation of the mails.” The committee was expanded on March 27 and further assigned consid eration of the ordinance for regulating the post office, but it failed to report. On July 7 a number of committees were appointed to inquire into “the several departments in conformity with the resolution of June 17, 1782,” and the committee investigating the post office issued a general report on August 27 reviewing its personnel, conduct of business, receipts, and estimated costs of transportation. On September 30, however, the committee was permitted to take back its report, which was not resubmitted since Congress ceased to conduct business after October 10. See JCC, 34:52n, 116n, 300n.l, 462-65,572n.l, 599n.l, 619. Nonetheless, Hazard had by this time begun to fear that he would be replaced or forced to resign. He reported to Jeremy Belknap on September 13 that Paine Wingate, who would soon leave for New Hampshire, “has seen a good deal of manoevering, and has gone so far as to tell me that he has been sounded about the P.M.G.; but, as he was not more communicative, delicacy prevented my being particular in my enquiries, but you may.” Interviewing Wingate when he passed through Boston, Belknap informed Hazard on September 23 that “there has been an attempt in Congress to get you dis placed, and W. says that he prevented it. His colleague [Nicholas Gilman] was for it, and, had he agreed with him, there would have been seven States on that side. The States against you are Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware, and Georgia, and I am uncertain whether Rhode Island or North Carolina; but it originated in Connecti cut, and the person pitched upon for your successor, is Jonathan Trumbull. Baldwin, of Georgia, is against you. Your fault is not enough favouring the stages in carrying the mails, and giving indulgence to post-riders.” In his October 2 reply, Hazard confessed “I never heard, before you informed me, that my removal had been seriously agitated in Congress; or rather, that any vote had been taken about it. North Carolina must have been the 6th State. A friend has intimated to me that a member from that State wanted the office for himself. I am pretty confident that Rhode Island would have been in my favour.” He expressed surprise “that Massachusetts voted as she did, and cannot account for it. For some of the rest I can conjecture the reason." Hazard accused Jonathan Day ton of seeking “revenge” for his brother-in-law, Col. Matthias Ogden, a New Jersey mail contractor against whom Hazard had brought suit. But he agreed with Wingate’s assess ment that “there will not be a full representation before the new Government takes place. . .so that it is possible I may yet weather out the storm.” Writing again on October 14, Hazard issued what he hoped was a corrective: “I am well informed that no vote has been taken on the removal of the P.M.G., but that it is probable his opponents may have been calculating their chance of success, and supposed that 6 States would be with them.” See The Belknap Papers, 3 vols. Massachusetts Historical Society Collections, 5th ser., v. 2-3; 6th ser. v. 4. (Boston: Massachusetts Historical Society, 1877-91), 2:63-69. Notwith standing, Hazard was one of the few Confederation officers not reappointed under the new government, being replaced by Samuel Osgood.
