30 March 29, 1788 communicate to you. The subject which engages the general attention at this time is the New Constitution. What will be the fate of it is yet uncertain, but those who are well wishers to their country & best know the situation we are in, are the most sensible of the necessity of its adoption, and great pains are taken to obtain the end. On the other hand there are powerful opposers to it, who avail themselves of some popular objections & they are too successful with the less know ing part of the country. In New Hampshire when the Convention met, there was a majority prejudiced against the plan. They were chiefly from the interior parte of the state & many of the delegates were in structed to vote against it. The most distinguished Characters were in favor of it & after debating it for sometime there were a few converts made, who did not think themselves at liberty to go against their in structions and therefore obtained an adjournment. There is I think a probabity that it will finally be adopted in New Hampshire, altho con siderable danger that it will not. New York is very doubtful but it is not despaired of. Virginia & North Carolina are much in the same situa tion. Maryland & South Carolina are supposed to be foederal. Those two states will decide before the others & if they should agree to adopt there will be but one of the dubtful ones necessary to make up the nine. The important decision upon the subject cannot be known before the last of July, & at any rate I do not see that the new constitu tion can be got to go as early as Dec. next. Nothing but the hope of a new can I fear keep the old Constitution from dissolution long—Sed nunquam de Re publica desperandum. The news papers are so filled with lyes that no dependance can be put on any account you receive in them respecting the Constitution. I hope I shall soon have the plea sure of hearing from you by letter, which direct to me in Congress at New York. If you have any letters which you wish at any time to for ward to Salem or to any friends Eastward if you will put them under cover to me, I will take the care of them & send them without hazard or expence to the place of destination. If Congress should not ad journ which yet is uncertain, it is likely that I shall remain in this place until Oct. next. I am dear Sir with sentiments of particular esteem & affection your friend & brother, Paine Wingate N.B. I desire my love to Mrs. Pickering. RC (MHi: Pickering Papers). 1 Pickering’s brother John, although a man of some local prominence and a Salem representative in the Massachusetts General Court, is not to be confused with John Pickering (1738-1805) of Portsmouth, N.H., the first federal judge impeached and re moved from office in 1804. Cf. Gerard H. Clarfield, Timothy Pickering and the American Revolution (Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 1980), p. 13; and DAB. 2 Wingate had been married to Pickering’s sister Eunice since 1765.
