March 30, 1788 31 Jeremiah Wadsworth to John Chaloner Dear Sir New York March 30th 1788 I This morning received your letter by Mr Colt and I never was more surprised. 1 Is it possible you should have applied so large a Sum of Money to your own use and have no part of it ready for us, what am I to think. By the Packet to Sail the next Thursday instead of a large remittance I must send Mr Church a Sketch of the Ac counts. My letter in the most possitive terms not to sell our goods on Credit has been disregarded and a large sum is in out standing debts—and much of it with those Who have no visible property, and every shilling that is collected made use of. It distresses me more than I can express that a Man in whom I placed all my confidence should treat me thus. For God Sake let me know imediately what you have done with the Money and fix on times as early as possible to re turn it. Tell me the periods at which I may depend on its being re mitted to Col Hamilton and do not disappoint me. I am alarmed that your letter does not tell me in particular what your funds are from whence this great Sum is to come. Mr Church has long since been alarmed as is Col Hamilton. I dare not Shew him the Accounts or letter—till I hear from you again. I have met with so many losses and disappointments that my embarrassments are great but this is a stroke I was totally unprepared for—and I shall be very uneasy till I have a clear and explicit account from you of the means that are in your power to do us justice. I can hardly persuade my self I read right When I view the great Bal lance and that you could not pay one Shilling to Mr Colt—how can you justify this transaction to yourselfe [to] your friend, or how is it compatible with the character of a Merchant. I will not add but wait impatient[l]y your answer which I wish may be such as will restore you to the place you have ever held in the heart of your injured Friend, Jere Wadsworth RC (PHi: Chaloner & White Collection). FC (CtHi: Wadsworth Papers). 1 Wadsworth also wrote Chaloner the following letter on March 17. “In Consequence of late Letters from Mr Church, I send on Mr Colt to Make a Settle ment of our Accounts with you and he will either Sell or Ship the remaining Goods of the Company. I was in hopes to have had it in my Power to come on my self; but find it impossible. I can hear Nothing from MCarty—neither letters or Account Sales—is their any thing to be had with You—my love to Mrs Chaloner & the Children.” Chaloner & White Collection, PHi.
