March 31,1788 33 you to cultivate the ornaments of the mind which will afford you the most substantial pleasure. I bid you a very affectionate adieu, P Wingate RC (MH-H: Wingate Papers). 1 Wingate’s correspondence also contains the following “Supplement to Letter dated Ap. 2d. 88,” which he wrote to his daughter Polly, Mary Wingate Wiggin. “I shall enclose a couple of little Books. One of them I desire you will present to your daughter which of them she pleases; & the other you will give to my Betsy. I hope that you will make a prudent & discreet mother & that you will be happy in loving & being beloved by her. Tell Polly that the book comes from her Grandpapa as his first mark of paternal notice. I have enclosed some scraps out of a newspaper for George. The Camels I have seen as a curiosity, also the dancing on a rope &c which you will find ad vertised in the News paper. This sight exceeded the descrip[tion] given. Adieu.” Wingate Papers, MH-H; and Charles E. L. Wingate, Paine Wingate's Letters to His Children (Medford, Mass., 1934), p. 9. Abraham Baldwin to Joseph Clay Dear Sir 1 New York 31st March 1788 Your favour by Capt Burnham with the cask of Indico were duly received. I was much obliged by your very particular information respecting Indian affairs, the greater part of the time we are without any infor mation from Georgia. I have written the Governor constantly, ever since I left the state, and have never received a line, or known whether any of my letters arrived. 2 Our situation with our near neighbours on both sides, has been for some time critical, and a ground of very just uneasiness. The inten tions of the majority of congress respecting our Indian affairs, I am convinced, has been very good, merely to adopt a system of measures, in their own nature suited to preserve the peace of the United States. There are some here who are constandy passionate, and provoking on the subject. Our back territory has been considered as a very enviable possession, particularly by the lack-land states. I have assured them, it is want of experience on that subject, that makes them think so. I have seen by the papers that uneasy apprehensions have been entertained of the conduct of the Spaniards. I had several times in free conversa tion with Mr Gardoqui, who is a very free and friendly man, hinted to him, that I feared, we should loose that respect that we had enter tained for their good policy, by some of their late proceedings; he al ways has denied every such suggestion. A few days since, on the arrival of the Spanish packet, he called on me, and said he was very glad to have it in his power to inform me, and he did inform me officially,
