April 6,1788 41 I have called three times at Mr. Gaines to deliver your Message re specting the Trees and could not see him, have yesterday left an ex tract of your Letter at his House, with direction where I could be found, to morrow I expect young Prince in Town and will furnish him with your request, if possible the Trees will go by Schuyler. Your Brother Phil is not yet come to Town. I wish to see him very much. Contrary to all expectation Westchester & Queens it is now thought will elect federal Characters to represent them in Convention, Kings is decidedly well disposed to a Man, and from Suffolk we hear that Floyd & LHommedieu are very active. The federal Cause gains ground fast to the Southward and from Rhode Island we learn that the federalists disatisfied with the Method adopted by their Legislature, instead of polling themselves in favor of the Constitution have remonstrated against the Method, hence all the Votes taken in the different Towns are for its rejection, and tho’ it is conceded that a Majority of the Electors in that State are opposed to the plan, yet a very respectable Number composed of the Wealth & abilities in that State are warm Advocates for it. I thank you for the Trouble you have taken to prevail upon Mrs. Gansevoort to come down and am sorry You was not more successful. The Commissions for Thomas Barritt, Dirck Hilton, John Veeder & Jonathan Hilton as Cutters of Staves, Henry J. Bogert as Measurer of Boards, Timber &c. and Jellis Winne as repacker of Beef & Pork, I will send up per M. McClallen, good Use may be made of them as they were severally appointed by our recommendations—it will be well to let Maus R Van Vranken know that in consequence of his application to me he was recommended and is now actually appointed a Justice of the Peace as I have seen by the Records of the Council. Jonathan Hilton I believe know nothing about it but I considered him as a friend to your Family and an honest & industrious Man & therefore added his Name—have you taken care to apprize Dd. V Rensselaer, Jacob Fort Junr., Philip Conyne & Thos. Tobias that they are ap pointed Coroners through the same Channel, this should not be ne glected, their Commissions will also go up with the rest—it may give a Spur to Action. I think it would be well to suggest to Genl. Schuyler the propriety of writing official Letters to the newly appointed Jus tices, their Commission will go up soon Mr. Scot has promised me that he will attend to it. Mr. Gross will go up soon with an Address from the German Society he is warmly federal and I promise myself much good from his Excur sion. I have endeavoured to promote a similar Measure by the St. An drews Society in this place which consists of near 300 Members of all which Number there is but one Antiman, to wit, Genl. Malcom, our friend James Caldwell has seconded this application to Wm. Maxwell
