42 April 6,1788 the Vice president and the Society will meet to Morrow for the pur pose, they cannot believe that the Scotch in Albany differ so widely from them in sentiment, many of the leading Members of that Body have promised to give their Attendance and promote this necessary Measure, they will at least write to the Scotch in the Upper Counties as well as in Albany. Coll North has assured me that he will go up this Week. I have im pressed his Mind with the absolute Necessity of affording all the assis tance in his Power. Palmer in Ballston has been written to by Dirck Lefferts per post, but fear his Letter will remain in the post office unless some step is taken to forward it, can’t you procure some unsuspected Person to take it up & forward it to him. Hamilton says others have written Palmer on the same Subject. Yours very sincerely &c, Leonard Gansevoort RC (N: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Addressed: “Stephen Van Rensselaer Esqr., Water Vleit near Albany.” 1 Stephen Van Rensselaer (1764-1839) was the eighth patroon of the vast Rensselaer- wyck estate in Albany and Rensselaer Counties, New York. He graduated from Harvard College in 1782, married Gen. Philip Schuyler’s daughter Margaret in 1783, and was elected as a Federalist to the New York Assembly, 1789-90, to the state Senate, 1791-95, and as lieutenant-governor, 1795-1801. DAB. 2 That is, Federalist “prospects” in the approaching Albany County election for dele gates to New York’s ratifying convention. Samuel A. Otis to George Thatcher Dear Sir [April 6? 1788] 1 In making up my weekly packet should I omit to direct a Letter to you it might be attributed to a cause very far from reality, a want of es teem & attention, Not with any credit of saying anything new, or com municating entertainment, but merely to cover a letter & a New York paper & evince my wish by every oppoy to cultivate a correspondence on any side very agreeable is the design of this my No 2.1 have a wish to hear from you, to know what communications you made to the House, How you get along—What the temper of my Countrymen is Who is to be in & who out—We are here in the old Style, Six States only. Reed & Wadsworth gone home about the time or since your de parture; yet it will not do to abdicate the Government. I have reason to fear no adoption will take place this year, and I am informed the people of Massachusetts are very uneasy, That R I have & N Hamp shire certainly will reject. At this moment all hands are parliamenteer- ing. By the time you wish the result may be known. Detail every cir cumstance, For Trifles are important in connexion with our Country.
