April 7, 1788 43 Your friend & Hum Sert, Sam A Otis 2 [PS.] Present me to friend Hill, Nason, Coney, Wiggery & all my friends federal & Anti. MS not found; reprinted from Historical Magazine, 2d ser. 6 (December 1869): 353. 1 Thatcher had returned home March 25 and Otis wrote to him Saturday March 29. This is his second “weekly” letter to Thatcher, to whom he also wrote on Sunday April 13, and it was undoubtedly written on April 5 or 6. It has been placed here at the latter date because it may have gone with the same post that carried Nathan Dane’s April 6 letter to Manasseh Cuder. 2 Otis also wrote the following brief letter to George Morgan the following day. “Soon after I had the pleasure of a conversation with you upon the subject of husbandry I met with the enclosed upon raising Carrots, Which I think will amuse you. “As the author is a very particular friend, & [I] am upon a footing of intimacy, with several of our very best farmers, should you furnish me with any communications in re turn, it would oblige.” Logan-Dickinson Collection, PPL. Morgan forwarded this letter to John Dickinson at Wilmington, Del., to whom he explained that Otis’ enclosure was “On the Culture of Carrots, by Tristam Dalton.” Cyrus Griffin to James Madison My dear Sir N.Y. April 7th [1788] Colonel Wadsworth has thought proper to leave us—and his state being unrepresented we are again reduced to six only—and probably may continue in that situation a week or two longer. The N. York dele gates do not attend—it seems to me the period is fully arrived to close the Confederation. As no french packet has yet appeared or been heared of the minis ter is inclined to think that a prohibition was made to their sailing during the winter months—or perhaps some change in that depart ment may have occasioned it. Rhode Island have in fact rejected the constitution—so that only eight states can have adopted the system before the Session of Vir ginia. We all much rejoiced to hear of your election, especially as your being present, we are told, was absolutely necessary to counter-act some unwarrantable proceedings. I do not know whether you are acquainted with a Mr Paradise from London who came to Virginia in October last with the strongest rec ommendations as a man of understanding and a good American—he is now in this City and will embark for Paris in the first french packet—if you have any confidential letters to Mr. Jefferson I am sure he will take the best charge of them—he is very intimate with that Minister and will go immediately to his house.
