44 April 7,1788 At some convenient hour I hope you will give me your opinion upon the prospect of the new-Constitution—the Elections now fin ished &c. News papers enclosed. I am, my dear Sir, with the highest respect & friendship, your obedient Servant, C Griffin RC (DLC: Madison Papers). John Brown to James Madison Dear Sir New York April 9th. 1788 I herewith inclose two Letters which were this Morning brought for you to our Lodgings—also the News Papers of this day which contain all intelligence in circulation here worthy your Notice. The French Packett arrived a day or two ago (being the first since you left us). I hear she has brought some public Dispatches but am not yet inform’d of their Contents. 1 Nine States have not appeard on the floor of Con gress since you left N. York which has prevented any further Consider ation of the Kentucky Address. 2 No Report has been made as yet upon the remonstrance of Virginia relative to Illinois Accounts 3 —indeed scarce any thing has been done—for ten days past we have not made a Congress being reduced to six States. We have had the pleasure to be inform’d of Your Election for the ensuing Convention—from the returns which I have seen my hopes are somewhat revived—should the Back Country be in favor success I think is certain. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In the hand of John Brown, signature clipped. 1 For the foreign dispatches received at this time but not read in Congress until a quorum was reached on May 2, see JCC, 34:128-31. 2 See Edward Carrington to Thomas Jefferson, November 10, 1787, note 3. 3 See James Madison to Edmund Randolph, March 3, note. John Brown to James Breckinridge Dear Breckinridge New York April 11th. 1788 I this day reed, your’s of the 1st Instant & find from your Statement that I am two Letters in arear in my Correspondence with you—my memory does not enable me to correct the error but am fully of opin ion that I am intided to larger Credits than you have given me—how ever I shall not contend about it for I assure you that the pleasure I take in writing to you is only exceeded by that of perusing your’s in re turn, the contents of which are ever to me both amusing & interest-
