48 April 12,1788 is in favor of its being adopted. You know my opinion of the necessity & importance of this, for the safety & welfare of the country under our present circumstances. I shall trouble you no more on this sub ject. Congress have had application made to them from Kentucky, to be made an independent state, This is a large Tract of Country on the westward part of Virginia. It is situated between the Allegany Moun tains & the river Ohio, on the East of that river. These mountains lie in a chain from North to South & are impassable except in two places. It is six hundred miles from the center of this Country, to the seat of government in Virginia, And cannot be travelled in less than 21 days, & that with great peril in fording or rafting over the rivers, & climing over the rocks & mountains, where there is no road, & never can be inhabitted for the distance of 5 days journey. Notwithstanding those difficulties, so tempting is the soil that there are said to be not less than 60 thousand souls settled there already. There is a member in Congress from that Country, 2 a Clergymans son, who gave me this ac count. He says that the winters are so mild, that the cattle in the spring will be as fat as at any time, without the trouble of feeding them. That it is a very hea[l]thy climate. That there are a number of salt springs where the people can boil the water & make salt as we do out of sea water. It is only crossing over the river & there is the western country where the Ohio company & others are about to make their settlements. It is said that where the Ohio emptieth itself into the Mis sissippi so flat is the country & such floods come down in the spring season, that there is a space of forty miles distance laid under water. Which forms the appearance of a sea, out of which a forest of trees rises. The vast country north west of the Ohio was ceeded by Virginia to the united states upon condition that they should be reimbursed for their expences in defending of it during the late war. This Con gress agreed to & commissioners were appointed by mutual consent to ascertain the sum. The commissioners have not yet reported, & cannot easily agree either two of them. One supposes that 60 Thousd. pounds LM would be eno, another 150 Thousd pounds & the other would give them 220 Thousd pounds for their expences. This would be a dear purchase of that Country to the united states. I intended to have given you some account of the City of New York in this letter, but have dwelt so long on the New Constitution, & the western country, that I find I shall not have room. Boston is not more than two thirds as large as this City in buildings & numbers, and I suppose are much the same in proportion of commerse & wea[l]th. The continual in crease is very great, & I think its situation is very favorable to its being the center of business & wealth in the union. As for news I will enclose a paper to give you that. We have nothing remarkable in Congress. I shall be glad to hear from you when it is convenient. I cannot take much pains in writing, having considerable of it to do. If you can read
