April 13, 1788 49 it & find any amusement there from my end is answered, especially if you will consider it as a token of that esteem and friendship with which I am yours &c, Paine Wingate P.S. If I should not write by this post to my family please let them know that I am well & desire my affectionate regard to all friends. RC (MH-H: Wingate Papers). 1 Samuel Lane, a New Hampshire farmer, tanner, and shoemaker, and a deacon of the Stratham Congregational Church, had long been a neighbor of Wingate. Charles E. L. Wingate, Life and Letters of Paine Wingate, 2 vols. (Medford, Mass.: Mercury Printing Co., 1930), 1:112, 165, 192, 2:355. 2 That is, John Brown. Samuel A. Otis to George Thatcher Dear Sir New York 1 Sth April 1788 Altho I can only enclose you a barren paper I cannot suffer the post to go without directing to you. The No of Gentlemen present has hardly been sufficient since your absence to affect the smallest busi ness; of course am unable to give friend Gerrey such an answer upon the extension of posts as he wishes, but in answer to his, have written him upon the Subject. 1 I think Hazzard is in a bad box. The federal ists frown upon him for being anti. The opposers of federalism charge him hard with stoping the papers, & “muzzling the process” to facilitate the purposes of despotism. 2 I hope they will not oust him, but a little shaking will put him right. The officers of Congress will re ceive no injury by shaking. The parties are hard at it here, and in Virginia. Tis said Clinton will be candidate for the City, & will carry it for Ulster County. Mrs P enquires frequently after you, and Mr D is so studious he sel dom times his muscles to a smile, We miss you at meal times, which if ever is a season for hilarity. My Compliments to all friends Mr Hill, Nason &c, being fellow La borers, particularly, from, Your friend & H. Sert, Sam A Otis Sunday Evening. Not expecting amongst so many acts of friendship from Dear Chumm, a letter from Boston, altho I expected one dated from Biddeford soon after you got home, I cannot seal, without thank ing you for yours of 6th. I am particul[ar]ly obliged for your attention to my dear family and as I always telled you, you are better than your principles, so I have no reason to suppose you telled Mrs O any stories abot me, to my prejudice—For am sure if you had, I should have heard of them. Whether the Ladies are fond of a fatt man have not particularly enquired, but as you coupled “fatt & handsome,” they may
