52 April 14,1788 whether decent postilions could be hired for the Journey. As to the woman I shall write lady C. 1 The chariot would be too much crouded & she not wanting upon the Journey. But, my dear sir, how does the money hold forth—and if not, can you negotiate a Bill upon me. Be so kind to answer this letter and I will trouble you upon the sub ject with only one more letter. By the last vessels from Europe we are told that the Netherlands are still in great confusion—that Russia is carrying on the war against the Turks with uncommon vigor, and perhaps will be powerfully assisted by the Emperor—that in all probability the horrid flame may be ex tended much farther—and that in Truth the peace between France and England will not continue any considerable length of time—and say our ministers the conduct of the united states should be a system of neu trality. Be so good to send the enclosed letter; and with my affect respects to your kind lady believe me with the utmost sincerity & regard Your most obedient servant, C Griffin RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1649.5). 1 Although “the woman” referred to has not been identified, “Lady C” was Griffin s wife, Lady Christina Stuart, daughter of the 6th earl of Traquair. Cyrus Griffin to Samuel Johnston Dear Sir New York. April 14th. 1788. The Congratulations of so kind a friend I receive with the utmost pleasure. Accept my thankfull acknowledgements for your Excellencies very Obliging Letter and very polite Attention. 1 By the last Vessels from Europe we are told that the Netherlands are Still in Great Confusion—that Russia is Carrying on the war against the Turks with uncommon Vigour, and perhaps will be powerfully as sisted by the Emperor—that in all probability the horrid flame may be extended much further—and that in truth the Peace between France & England will not continue any considerable time. 2 This being the Appearance of things abroad, I hope the United States at home will adopt a Constitution beautifull in theory and which will be found a Government of Safety, and of Energy. I have the honour to be Dear Sir, with profound Esteem & regard, Your Excellencys most Obedient servant, Cyrus Griffin Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 Johnston’s letter is not in the PCC or N. C. State Records. 2 See the following entry, note 4.
