54 April 14,1788 3 For these “large boxes,” see ibid., 10:357n.2. 4 John Adams’ letter is in PCC, item 84, 6:591-94; and Diplomatic Correspondence, 1783-89, 2:824-26. 5 Not found. 6 For which see John Brown to Madison, April 9, notes 2 and 3. Charles Pettit to Benjamin Franklin Sir, Philadelphia 14th. April 1788 After my Return from New York in May last, I presented an Account to the Comptroller General in order to obtain a Warrant from Coun cil for a few Weeks Pay as a Member in Congress. Considering it as a Business of course I neglected farther Application for some Time, but was at length told that Doubts had arisen in Council whether I was in titled to the Pay stated in the Account or not. These Doubts seem to have arisen on one or other of the two following suppositions. 1st. That the Assembly, by the Election of Genl. Armstrong, in tended to supercede my Appointment, or 2dly. That the Time limited by the Constitution for my Continu ance, was expired before I gave the Attendance for which I have claimed Pay. As to the first, I am far from questioning the Bight of the Assembly to supercede any one of their Delegates whenever they think proper: But having never received any Intimations of their Disapprobation of my Conduct as a Delegate, I cannot suppose they intended to brand me with so unusual a Mark of Displeasure. As to the second—The federal Constitution limits the Service of Members to three Years. It was for some Time doubted whether the three Years should be computed from the Time of their respective Appointments, or the Time of taking their Seats in Congress; but the Words being that “no Person shall be capable of being a Delegate for more than three Years in any Term of six Years,” the former Construc tion has prevailed. The Words of Limitation in the Constitution of Pennsylvania are “No Man shall sit in Congress longer than two Years successively.” Hence it has been generally understood that the two Years, so far as this Limitation applies, commence at the Time a Dele gate takes his Seat in Congress, and this Construction has prevailed in Practice. 1 Those who best know me will do me the Justice to believe that altho’ I was duly sensible of the Honor conferred upon me by the Appointment, I was far from soliciting it, and that I should have been equally far from obtruding my Services in this last Period of At tendance if I could have supposed they would have been either deemed unacceptable or founded on doubtful Authority. I therefore take the Liberty of stating to Your Excellency and the honble. the
