April 14, 1788 55 Supreme Executive Council my View of the Subject at the Time of the Transaction. In April 1785 The Legislature did me the Honor to elect me a Dele gate. Being a Member of the House at the Time, I had some Doubts, in point of Delicacy of accepting the Appointment, and had actually refused at a former Session to permit my Name to remain in the List of Nominations; but it was again urged so warmly that I did not abso lutely refuse, neither did I announce an Acceptance till some Time after the Session ended. In May I received the Credentials of my Ap- poinmtment, and on the 27th of that Month I presented them and took a Seat in Congress. In the November Session following I was again appointed for the ensuing Year. In November 1786 I received a third Appointment. As the Constitutional Limitation would admit but a few Months Continuance under this Appointment, it was to me both unexpected & undesired; but being at New York at the Time, and con sidering it as an honorable Testimony of Approbation which de manded my Gratitude, I accepted and continued to act under it till the Arrival of a sufficient Number of my honorable Colleagues en abled me to retire for some Time without leaving the States unrepre sented. This had so seldom happened before, that I felt the strong Oc casion to avail myself of the Relief, and remained absent from Congress till the beginning of April 1787, during which Time so many States were unrepresented that little Progress was made in Business. Considering that the Time limited by the Constitution for my Contin uance in the Delegation would expire on the 26th of May, I began to decline the Thought of returning to that Duty; but there were then but two Delegates from this State at New York, one of whom was by his Station precluded from the ordinary Duties of a Member, 2 and the other having signified to me his Desire to be relieved by a partic ular Day at which he must withdraw himself for a Time: recollecting moreover that some Matters of Business were likely to be resumed in Congress which my honorable Colleagues had had less Opportunity of investigating than myself, I thought it my Duty to give my Atten dance tho’ it should be but for a few Weeks. On the Day of my Arrival in Congress, General Irvine, who had been impatiently waiting for a Relief, departed. I had heard that General Armstrong was elected & supposed that the Intention was to guard against a Vacancy when my Time should be expired, but had no Reason to suppose it was de signed to affect my Continuance during that Time, nor did I receive any Notification of such Election otherwise than from common Re port, neither did I know till sometime after I went to Congress that the Gentleman elected had determined to accept the Appointment. On his Arrival at New York sometime afterwards, I obtained a Sight of his Credentials and consulted with him & the President of Congress on the Occasion, intending to retire immediately if I should discern the least Intimation that such had been the Design of the Legislature;
