58 April 17, 1788 felt himself at liberty to give of these wonderful Discoveries, with the Source from whence they were derived. But I cou’d not venture to ex press a Doubt of the reality of every thing he asserted. In all my sober Moments I acknowledge the Superintendance of a Divine Power, & suppose that he acts by general Laws contrived to effect the Happiness of all sentient Beings. How far these general Laws may in the Moral as in the physical World produce Phoenomena that to our Understand ings seem irregular & not resulting from the general principle, & therefore often term’d miraculous, I am not qualified to determine. A general propensity to Religion in Mankind, I have consider’d as Evi dence of the Deity’s Existence. The Tenets of all the different Sects ap pear to me to abound with Absurdities, as far as I have Knowledge of them. Not because I cannot explain every thing, but because many things seem to be contradictory to that Reason which has been given by God for our Guide. He cou’d not give us Reason & then take pains (if I may so express myself) to confound it’s Operation. June 13th. I know not how I have been prevented from continuing the Subject. I was going to add many other Observations, but shall rather proceed to Facts. I reced a very long Letter from N. in Answer, with a full Account of what had happen’d to him, & accompanied with several of Swedenborg’s Books which I have not been able yet to read with Attention. I find he has sent them also to you & to our Friends in Bermuda. Our dear Sister B. sent them also to me by Mr. D. Tucker, without many remarks upon them, but N. says she reads them with Intelligence & Conviction. He is impatient to hear from you, & is also so earnest with me that I am perfectly at a loss how to write to him. Pray, help me out, if you can. Perhaps you have read those Books, & can form a better Judgment of them than I can. I shou’d be glad to have your Sentiments as fully as possible upon this very ex traordinary Change. I must confess I was for some time even afraid to enquire about him, but am now happy to find that he goes on with his Business, & with rather better Prospects than formerly. Heaven bless you, my dear St. George. Yrs. most truly & sincerely, Thos. Tud. Tucker RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 That is, their brother Nathaniel, a Charleston physician, who was exploring the the ological writings of Emanuel Swedenborg (1688—1772), a proponent of a “new Chris tianity” of gradual redemption through the personal regulation of spiritual states. Thomas Tudor Tucker to St. George Tucker My dearest Brother New York. Hall of Congress Api. 17th. 1788. I have this Minute receiv’d your favor of the 7th Inst, by Colo. Car-
