62 April 19,1788 loss, having been prepared in a way which costs much time and attention and requires great skill to accomplish. “On Monday morning the mob assembled again, and increased thro’ the day to an alarming size. Vengeance was denounced against the faculty in general, but more par ticularly against certain individuals. Not a man of the profession thought himself safe. An innocent person got beat and abused for being only dressed in black. Two of the young tribe were unfortunate enough to fall into their hands, but the Mayor obtained them upon a promise of sending them to gaol—a measure to which in their rage they submit ted, not reflecting that sending them to goal would secure them from their violence and resentment, and therefore, as soon as they found themselves thus defeated in their furi ous intentions respecting their captives, they repaired to the goal and commenced their attack (with all that intemperance and folly which ever marks the conduct of people as sembled in that way), vainly endeavouring to break in, when they could do nothing more than break windows, &c., which they will be taxed to repair. The militia were or dered out, small parties were sent to disperse them, but they instantly disarmed those attachments, broke their guns to peices, and made them scamper to save their lives. The evening advanced apace, and the affair became very serious. The Governor, after trudging about all day, first with the mob in the morning, endeavouring to pacify and accommodate, and in the afternoon to assemble a body respectable enough to preserve the goal and to restore peace and good order, advanced about dusk with a number of the Citizens, but without any kind of order or without any other than a few side arms and canes, while the Adjutant-Gen’l of the militia, about 300 yards in his rear, led up in very good order about 150 men, tho’ not more than half with firearms, among whom were many gentlemen of the city and strangers, volunteers. This body were not long before the goal before the bricks and stones from the mob provoked several to fire, and per haps their might, on the whole, have been 60 guns discharged, but this is mere guess. This body made their way into the goal where a party remained all night, but a sally of 60 or 70 were defeated. Three of the mob were killed on the spot, and one has since died of his wounds, and several were wounded. One of them was bayonetted on at tempting to force into a window of the prison which he saw filled with armed men, a proof of the astonishing lengths to which popular rage will sometimes carry men. Num bers on the Governor’s side, besides himself, are severely bruised. Baron Steuben rec’d a wound just above the corner of his left eye and nose, from which he lost a great deal of blood. Mr. Jay got his scull almost cracked, and are both now laid up. Gen’l Arm strong has got a bruised leg, but is able to go out. Yesterday the militia turned out again, and made a respectable appearance, and paraded about exceedingly, both Horse and Foot, but it must be observed that the enemy were not be heard of. In truth numbers who were in the mob on Monday evening turned out yesterday to support government." 3 Not identified. Charles Thomson to James McHenry Dear Sir NewYork April 19. 1788 I am sorry I have not been able sooner to answer your letter of the 19 of last month. I happened to be in Philadelphia when it reached New York. It was transmitted to me and when I received it I was in hopes I should have finished my business & returned in a few days. Therefore I immediately sent back the letter which was enclosed therein to be forwarded by the packet and deferred writing to you until I returned. My stay was longer than I expected, and after my re turn here I reed, your second letter of the 12 of this Month and at the
