April 23, 1788 69 Edward Carrington to James Madison My dear Sir, New York Api. 23. 1788 I have the pleasure to forward herewith two packets which came by the last French Packet. The business of the constitution as referred to the Town meetings of Rhode Island, is over without producing any effect. Three of the Towns were decidedly for calling on the Legislature to appoint a con vention according to the mode prescribed, and this it seems from freindly views to the measure. The remaining Towns have done noth ing decisive of their sentiments—a few of them have apparendy voted against it, but it is said & I beleive with Truth, that the reason votes do not appear in favor, is that the Freinds objected so directly against the mode of proceeding, that they would not act at all. In some others there are votes both for & against & at the same time propositions for insisting on the Legislatures calling a Convention. Upon the whole it is a pretty decided matter that Rhode Island will not be amongst the adopting States by June. We have no Congress but it is expected we shall have one in a few days—this a triffling business which I long to see an end of. I am Yrs. afftlly., Ed. Carrington RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Paine Wingate to John Sullivan Sir New York April 23d. 1788 I am honoured with your favor of the third Instant, and am happy to find that your sentiments respecting the Independency of Ken tucky, as a State distinct from Virginia, coincide with those I had ad vanced in a committee of Congress. There is one Idea which your Ex cellency suggests, sufficient I think to evince that the present confederation does not provide for the erecting new states out of those already in the Union, namely, “because nine states are compe tent to determine any question before Congress,” and upon this sup position, a minority of the states in the union might be so circum stanced as to decide upon the most important matters. This business of Kentucky has not been before Congress but once yet, and I believe there will be some very decent excuse found, for deferring the deter mination at present, without exciting the resentment of Kentucky. That country is encreasing surprizingly. An Officer, who has lately
