74 April 24, 1788 Samuel A. Otis to James Warren Dear Sir New York April 24th 1788 Your favr 23d March have before me, And attributing your silence to the pressure of public business without suspecting a want of atten tion from you, anticipated your apology. Last Evening reed, also yours 13th Instant & to both shall make the necessary reply. Elections were under the first article. Upon which did I not recollect some striking instances of their precarious nature I should feel a greater dissap- pointment. By what I can learn there does not appear to be a choice of L Govr by the people, of course the same ground is to be traversed in General Court. Mr H carries all before him, 1 and altho I supposed he could be elected, I had great expectation, from what you observed, that his competitor would have stood higher. The sale to Messrs. Gorham & Phelps is estimated by some of my friends as an advanta geous one. 2 I confess, if they are so obligated as to make the payments sure and punctual, it appears to be a good sale, Under all circum stances. There is a glutt of Land at Market of which the USA hold two hundred million acres. I am obliged for your attention to my particular finances. As to adjourning farther South it will not probably take place under the present Confederation. What a new Year may effect, or the New System you have so much at heart may produce, depends upon vari ous contingencies. In regard to the accumulated and increasing debt of the Union, some people give broad hints that it will be paid with a sponge; which I think under our present weak & resourceless circumstances, will be a natural Consequence. Under a new energetic Government, I hear some politicians say, our inability is an insuperable bar to payment. The same men say resources might be pointed to of importance suffi cient to pay an interest of 3 per Cent; And I am of opinion could the debt be funded at 3 per Cent, the holders of securities left at their op tion to reloan at three, or take their chance of unfunded securities at six, the bulk of the debt would be reloaned. To this it may be said the cry of injustice will be sett up; As it would indubitably at a sponge. Upon which I reply. In the first place that, upon the whole, which will effect most extensive justice, to the greatest number of individuals, must be done. In the second place whats done by consent takes away error. And lastly, If it shall appear impracticable to effect more than three per Cent, will not necessity, which is paramount to all law, justify the measure? You will reply let this necessity be made apparent prior to such proceeding; In which I am perfectly agreed. Before I go from the subject, I am induced to think that under our present impover ished circumstances, could any measure be devised to fund our debt, & make sound appropriations for the interest at even less than three
