April 24, 1788 75 per Cent, it would reanimate a dead mass of useless paper & instantly make it an efficient Capital for the farmer, the Merchant, the manfac- turier, & every man in the Community. Whether “regeneration” is necessary to induce N England, my hon ored Country, to adopt the New System or not, you who are in one of its largest states can form the best judgment; But am confident with out that miraculous change, They will find the necessity of that, or one very like it. For as to the old wheel it wont budge an inch, & seems shattered to pieces. That some of the old spokes, & perhaps felloes, may do again I have no doubt but that the nave must be taken out, & the whole worked over again appears to me indispensible. I do not form my judgment altogether upon what information I get from Boston, but compare it with that from my friends at Milton, & other parts of the state. Ruling all which together the result seems to be that N Hamshire are divided, & so is N J. The majority of one, I am con vinced are against foederal measures & possibly of both. As to N Y one party are sure of adoption, another as positive it will be rejected. So no judgment can be formed. Some think Govr Clinton will be elected for the City, which I doubt. He will come in however by a handsome majority for Ulster County. Maryland by a very large majority will ac cede; So will So Carolina. N Carolina will probably operate as Virginia, which State I think will be nearly divided; But I rather think from the best information attainable, the majority will carry it for adopting, with amendments, upon the plan of Massachusetts. I have heard in the Circles here, you, or Sister W have written the Columbian patriot. 3 I suspect you, but wish to have it Ascertained; for the purposes only of curiosity believe me. To your demand to know what we are doing in Congress I answer— Nothing. To your enquiry what have we done? I answer—almost noth ing. Yet I dont know that those who have attended, which Mas sachusetts have incessantly, are to be blamed. The States have been in such a flutter about the New, that they have hardly paid attention to the old Government. One week we have nine States, Then again we have only four or five; For to my surprise the Members are under no kind of control & take themselves away whenever they think proper. The State of N York particularly altho there are sometimes two or three members in Town have for weeks together, had only a single member present. What is to be done? Massachusetts, & I presume oth ers have written to their Legislatures upon the Subject. Is more in their power? Most of the members are either of the Convention, or just before election dance down to the Hustings, And whether they are successful candidates or not, their attendance upon Congress is withdrawn. We have a prospect however of a full House in May, 4 when we shall soon finish the more important business, & if the States agree, follow our instructions in organizing the new Government, & so
