May 3,1788 85 express great Afflixion & Sympathy, & desire to be tenderly remem ber’d to yourself, the Children & the three young Gentlemen. It is said that Maryland has already adopted the new Constitution by a very great Majority, but the official Accounts have not yet reach’d us. We have a Letter from the Governor of Rhode Island informing of the Proceedings of that State upon the Business & it’s Rejection, which you have seen in the public Prints. They alledge that the Singularity of their Mode proceeded from no Disrespect either to the general Con vention or to Congress but from a Regard to pure republican Princi ples. I understand that in your State there is a clear Majority of the Delegates Friends to the new System. I suspect the same will be true of both the Carolinas, so that we shall have an Opportunity of seeing what wonderful Effects will be wrought. Except Rhode Island there is no State but this that seems at all doubtful of accepting the Constitu tion, & I even am inclined to think it will pass here, but not by any considerable Majority. The Federalists (as they style themselves) have been extreamly busy in endeavouring to swell their Number of Votes as much as possible in this City, not for the sake of carrying their Elec tion (for of that they were perfectly secure by a vast Majority) but to make it appear, if possible, that a Majority of the Inhabitants of the State are federal. I believe that a great Number have been encouraged to vote who are either Citizens of other States or not Citizens at all. But this will make no Odds except in Appearances. Will my good Friends Richard & Theodorick excuse me at present for neglecting to write. I am a little busy. My best regards to them, to Johny & the rest of my young Friends &c. I am, My dearest Brother, Yr. most truly affect. Thos Tud. Tucker RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 For these “Arrangements,” see Tucker’s second letter to his brother of April 17, note 3. Nicholas Gilman to John Langdon Dear Sir New York May 3d 1788. I am honored with your obliging favor of the 14th ultimo and most heartily Sympathize with the good Citizens of your place in their pre sent depressed situation; but at the same time rejoice with you in the hope of relief under the new System of government. The flame of opposition enkindled by the adjournment of our Con vention is daily decreasing and the prospect of a general adoption be gins to brighten. The enclosed paper announces the ratification by a large Majority of the Convention of Maryland; which is confirmed by
