86 May3, 1788 authentic letters from a number of Gentlemen. The federal ticket for members to represent this City in Convention is carryed by a very large Majority; and accounts of several Elections in the neighbouring Counties (that have come to hand) are much more favourable than was generally expected. The latest accounts from Virginia are favourable. Pennsylvania is in a State of tranquility and the general op position seems to be once more on the decline. The State of Georgia has made a large Cession of Western lands to the United States on condition that the new System is adopted and that they be allowed thirty thousand dollars for expences in defending that Country. 1 In haste, I have the Honor to be, with the greatest Re spect and Esteem, Dear Sir, your Most Obedient Servant, N. Gilman P.S. All the bells in this City are now ringing to Celebrate the news from Maryland. RC (Capt.J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). 1 This Georgia act of cession was not actually laid before Congress until May 29, per haps because the state was not fully represented until May 26 when William Few joined his colleague Abraham Baldwin. See PCC, item 76, fols. 290-302; and JCC, 34:179. Their motion for congressional acceptance of the cession with the conditions contained in the Georgia Act was immediately referred to a committee which submitted a report on July 9 that was read on July 14 and adopted the following day, when Congress rejected Georgia’s conditions and specified those under which it would accept a new cession. JCC, 34:188, 320-26. Charles Thomson to the States Sr. Circular to the other states 1 [May 3, 1788] I have the honor to transmit to yr. Excy herewith enclosed to be laid before yr Legislature a state of the representation in Congress for the Months of March & April, 2 & am With the greatest respect yr Exy’s &c LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 That is, other than Rhode Island and North Carolina. To his letters to the governors of those states, Thomson added the following opening sentences acknowledging letters that he had recently received from them. To Gov. John Collins of Rhode Island he wrote: “I have the honor to inform you that your Letter of the 5 of April with the papers enclosed has been rec’d & communicated to Congress." To Gov. Samuel Johnston of North Carolina: “I have rec’d. & communicated to Congress the Letters you did me the honor to write to me on the 19 of March last.” And to both he lamented that he was “sorry to observe that during the course of the present federal year your State has hith erto been unrepresented.” PCC, item 18B, fol. 145. 2 For these enclosures and the six other monthly attendance lists sent to the states during the Congress of 1788, see Appendix, pp. 537-46.
