May3, 1788 87 Paine Wingate to John Sullivan Sir New York May 3d. 1788 By the last post I received a letter from a friend of mine dated Bal timore April 26, informing me that the convention of Maryland had that day ratifyed the new constitution—yeas 63, nays 11 only. This in telligence, so agreeable to your Excellency’s wishes, I have taken the first opportunity of communicating. The state of New York have this week had their elections for delegates to their convention. In this city the votes are generally in favor of federalists, and it is said that they are so in other counties beyond expectation. It is now the opinion of those who are well acquainted with the sentiments of the people thro’ the state that the probability is in favor of adopting the constitu tion here. The latest accounts from Virginia are, that from the re turns of the delegates, which are now generally made, a majority will be for the new government. South Carolina does not seem to be doubted. Upon the whole the encouragement of having a peaceable & good government soon established is dayly encreasing. 1 I hope we shall not be disappointed. Georgia have made a considerable cession to the united states of their Western lands upon condition that the new constitution shall be adopted & that they be allowed thirty thou sand dollars for their expences in defending that territory during the late war. We have not had a congress until yesterday for some time past, owing to two or three members going out of Town. 2 Other members are expected on dayly. There have been no very material dispatches to Congress since I wrote to your Excellency last. I have the honor to be with the most respectful esteem your Excel lency’s most obedient and humble Servant, Paine Wingate P.S. Mr. Gilman desires his most respectful compliments. RC (Nh-Ar: State Papers, Revolutionary Correspondence). 1 Wingate also reported recent ratification news to his friend John Wendell in a letter of May 5, from which the following extract was printed in The Collector, 63 (December 1950): No. D2337. “I shall also enclose a newspaper by which you will See the determination of Mary land, and the [prosp]ect from Virginia, respecting the new [Con]stitution. This intelli gence is confirmed by various letters. The elections in the State of New York are more favorable for the n[ew] plan than was generally expected, and there is dayly an in creased probability of its being adopted. I hope we Shall not be disappointed, as I con ceive that it is of the utmost importance in our present critical Situation.” 2 Congress failed to muster a quorum between March 27 and May 2. See JCC, 34:114-19.
