90 May 8, 1788 lamented “that our application relative to the seperation [from Virginia] is so long sus pended.” But he quickly turned his letter into a catalog of death and destruction from marauding Indians who did not consider Kentuckians to be “a part of the thirteen fires” and charged that Congress failed to heed Kentucky’s repeated appeals for protection. Indeed, the federal troops on the Ohio under Col. Josiah Harmar “never were intended for our protection, but to prevent Settlements on the Foedral lands.” What was worse to Kentuckians, moreover, was the attempt of a majority of the states in 1786 “to barter away the Navigation of the Mississippi, our unalienable right. . .for a term that few of us would live to see expire.” Innes concluded that “the District of Kentucky as a part of the United States is entitled to protection—it hath been asked for—in a constitutional man ner—but hath it been granted—no it hath not. The reverse hath taken place—restric tion upon restriction.” He well knew how his letter to a member of Congress could be interpreted—“that those expressions which are construed into threats” could give rise “to the Idea of a revolt.” Innes Papers, DLC. Cyrus Griffin to Certain States Sir New York May 8 1788. I do myself the honor of transmitting to your Excellency a Resolu tion of Congress upon the subject of the Delegation. Most ardently do I wish and request that the Gentlemen from your State would attend upon the national business, and particularly at this interesting period. I have the honor to be Sir with profound Respect & regard, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient Servant, C Griffin ENCLOSURE Resolved, As the sense of Congress that the President write to the Governors of the States not now represented urging them to send for ward their respective Delegates, as business of the utmost importance to the Union is delayed for the want of an adequate representation. 1 CG RC (InHi: Mitten Collection). Addressed: “His Excellency The Governor of Georgia, Augusta.” 1 No such resolution is found on the journals of Congress. As Rhode Island, Connecti cut, New York, and North Carolina were also not represented at this time (see Appendix, p. 542), Griffin may have sent the same letter to the governors of the first named states; that to Gov. Samuel Johnston of North Carolina is in N. C. Slate Records, 21:471. There are no Griffin letters in the presidential letterbooks in the PCC (item 16). Samuel A. Otis to Benjamin Lincoln Dear Sir New York 8th May 1788 I have been pretty much taken up with variety of attentions, &: noth-
