May 8, 1788 91 ing of importance having taken place except what was in the papers, I have much against my inclination, defered replying to your last of . But I assure you nothing on my part shall be wanting to cultivate a correspondence which at once gratifies my vanity, & promises me improvement. Congress have not been idle, altho they have been so interrupted by the appointment of its members to Con vention, in one place & another that much less has been effected than could be wished. It was however the general, & invariable opinion that it would be more expedient that Congress should continue in session, during this uncertain & agitated year, even if nothing very important was effected, Than to leave the States without any bond of Union, or even the semblance of a federal Government. Indeed the frequent returns of the states who have been wise enough to adopt the new Constitution, renders it amongst other things expedient that Congress should continue in sessions. Maryland ratification is now reading, And I have no doubt we shall soon have that of So Carolina. I presume from what intelligence is stiring that No. Carolina will follow the lead of Verginia where the opposition has gained no ground of late, & will be weakened by the unanimity of Maryland. Verginia remains doubt ful however—yet I can hardly suppose She will refuse to adopt, as I am informed, upon the plan of Massachusetts. N. York are nearly equally divided. The federalists are very positive, so are the opposition. Govr. Clinton is pitted at all events against it & indeed it is with him a very great stake; for if he is in the minority upon this question I think he must lose his election. The supporters of the measure are however powerful. The City almost unanimously, & all the commercial interest, The Schylers & great proprietors, a large number of farmers &c. Clin tons friends pushed him very injudiciously for the City. What is our omen of success in my view is, that the most steady opposers in this quarter begin to dispair, and say it must be adopted with amend ments. I hear a suggestion that N. York opposers have no hope of re jection, but only hold up a good countenance, in order to effect amendments, upon the Massachusetts plan. Upon the whole I recollect no period at which the prospect looked more bright than the present. I can form no judgment of N Hamsh. Their adjournment into the Wilderness augurs ill, but Langdon & Sullivan, the great leaders are both agreed in federal measures, altho I presume their cordiality is not very perfect in other points. R Island will be overwhelmed with ar gument & influence, and their own minority exerting, I think may be brot to their senses. I exceedingly rejoice at the unanimity of Massachusetts & congratu late her upon the honor she is about to acquire, in her elections. The people who are united in electing a Governor, a Lieut Governour, 1 & Senate, who have evinced steady measures & good policy, can hardly fail of making a good election of Representatives.
