May 10, 1788 93 We beg leave to recommend that the Commissioner on the part of the State immediately tender the Accounts to the district commis sioner in their original forms, if he has not time to re-state them, & should this produce a difficulty let that arise with the adverse party. Should there be any particular facts or circumstances putting it out of the power of the States Commissioner to render the Accounts accord ing to this advice, it will be well for him to state them fully to your Ex cellency, to be transmitted to Congress, where we will endeavour to make them a ground for obtaining such extension of the time as you may think it necessary to ask for. 2 We have the Honor to be, with the greatest respect, Your Excellen cies Most Obt. Servts., Ed. Carrington J Brown C Griffin RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Carrington and signed by Carring ton, Brown, and Griffin. 1 For Governor Randolph’s March 13 request, see Virginia Delegates to Randolph, April 3, note. 2 For commissioner Andrew Dunscomb’s lengthy justification of a deadline extension for Virginia and the reversal of the board of treasury’s negative response to the gover nor’s initial appeal, see Edward Carrington to Randolph, June 9, 19, and 25. Nathan Dane to Samuel Adams Dear Sir, New York May 10. 1788. Yesterday were sent to me inclosed—the inclosed pamphlet and printed letter 1 with a request to convey them to you, which I do myself the honor to transmit accordingly. So far as my information extends the sentiments expressed by this writer, very generally meet the appro bation of those who aim at Just and uncorrupt Government on repub lican principles—nor do I perceive any thing in this publication in the least inconsistent with the determination of the Massa. Convention—a determination, in my opinion, by far the wisest & best that has been made on the Subject—for tho the situation of the Country made it prudent to adopt the Constitution, and put it into operation; yet, clear I am, that we ought not to relax a moment in our attention and vigilance for further guarding and checking the exercise of powers given by the Constitution, and for securing the liberties of America, and an honest administration of Government on known and certain principles. My fears and apprehensions do not arise altogether from a consideration of the faults in the new Constitution, but, in a consider-
