94 May 10, 1788 able measure, from a full persuasion that we have many men, and able ones too, in this Country, who have a disposition to make a bad use of any government, and who, if not well checked and restrained by the forms of the Government, will, so far as they can have influence pro duce a wicked and corrupt administration—and you may, Sir, be as sured that the jealous advocates for the adoption of this Constitution, and who are pretty numerous, artful and active, do not intend that any amendments shall be adopted, even after the Constitution shall be put into operation, if they can any way prevent it—at least they will oppose all amendments which, I believe, the republican and honest part of the Community will contend for—however, I think the true Federalists, or true freinds of a genuine federal republic, are extend ing their influence and connections very considerably; and tho a large proportion of them considering our situation agree to adopt the sys tem as presented, they are determined with candor and firmness, to endeavour to establish in these States governments on principles of freedom and equality—whether the friends of honest measures—or the friends of influence and corruption will succeed time only can de termine. Sure I am, the former will have the support and advice of your self and many others who have steered the political ship through the late Storm. Eight States have now determined relative to the Constitution pro posed. I can give you no certain information respecting the other five—our accounts respecting the Sentiments of the men elected for the State Conventions are various—but, on the whole, I am inclined to believe they will adopt with recommending amendments as in Massa. In this State, Virga. & N.C. the numbers for and agt. are pretty equal, as well as abilities. Your freind Mr. Lee I understand, declined going to the State Convention, principally, on account of the un- bealthiness of the place where the Convention is to meet. I mentioned to you in my last the application of Kentucky for an ad mission into the union—I am Just informed a gentleman has arrived in this place from Vermont, to make enquiries, &c respecting her ad mission into the Union. I understand the State has appointed a Com mittee and given them power to apply to Congress whenever they shall see a fair opportunity for again bringing under consideration the independance and admission of that state into the Union. I have been wishing for sometime that this subject might again be brought into veiw—for I am well persuaded if these States do no[t] unite in their infancy, and cement the union, they will not do it hereafter. With sentiments of the highest esteem, I am, Sir, Your most obedt. humbl. servant, N. Dane RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Not identified.
