May 12, 1788 95 John Brown to Janies Madison Dear Sir New York May 12th. 1788 I have had the honor to receive your favors of the 9th & 21st of April 1 for which accept my thanks. My hopes respecting the Success of the new Constitution in Virginia are in some measure revived by the information you have given me upon that Subject but am still sorry to find that the number of friends & foes are so nearly divided as to ren der the Vote of Kentucky of critical importance for I fear nothing friendly is to be expected from that quarter. I yesterday reced. letters from Colo. Muter & Mr Innes 2 who inform that it has few or no Sup porters in that Country. Muter from a warm friend has become a vio lent enemy to the Plan & that upon general principles. They enclosed me a list of members chosen to represent that District in Convention & further advise that on the 1st Monday in April a Convention was to meet at Danville expressly to take into consideration the new Consti tution & instruct & charge their representatives with the Sentiments of the District upon that Subject. 3 This measure almost precludes all hope that any good effect will result from a communication of my Sentiments to their Delegates, as I am apprehensive that they will con ceive themselves religiously bound to observe Instructions framed & given with such Solemnity. However as I am personally acquainted with the Men & fully possess their confidence I shall at all events haz ard the Attempt. I have not of late been able to discover any great change in the Sen timents of the people of this State with respect to the New Govern ment. Both parties appear equally confident & have equal expecta tions from Virginia. Their Elections for Convention are over but the returns are not yet made known. I believe Federalists only are elected for this City. We have done very little in Congress since you left us—Nine States have not appeared since that time & for a month previous to Tuesday last we could not even muster Seven; Nine are again shordy expected upon the floor, as soon as this is the case I shall endeavour to obtain the Determination of Congress upon the Kentucky Application. I flat ter myself that it will be in favor ‘tho’ still have great reason to fear the effects of Eastern Jealousy. My Anxiety upon this Subject daily in creases, should not a dete[r]mination be had before the expiration of the Act of Seperation—or should Congress refuse to grant this re quest; in either case I fear the consequences may be unfavorable to the Union especially as that District entertains such prejudices against the New Constitution which I hope & believe will be adopted. Let the event of their application be what it may I am convinc’d they will pro ceed in establishing their Independence. They have already chosen
