98 May 12, 1788 Charles Thomson to the States Sir, Circular to the States Office of Secy of Congress, May 12. 1788. Congress anxious to bring to a close the public accounts as far as they relate to the late quarter master, commissary’s, hospital, marine & cloathing departments, have passed the resolutions, which I have the honor to transmit to your Exy herewith enclosed. 1 As the order to the Commissioners to commence suits may affect some of the citizens of your State, I have to request that your exy will be pleased to cause it to be published for the information of all concerned. With great respect, I have the honor to be, Your Exys h s LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 For the enclosed May 8 resolutions, see JCC, 34:147-48. See also Thomson to the States, May 26; and these Letters, 23:181n.l, 233n.4. John Brown to James Breckinridge Dear Breckinridge New York May 14th. 1788 I reed, your letter containing the agreeable intilligence that my dear friend J. Smith had returned in safety from the Western Country. My anxiety on his behalf has been great—am also happy to hear that he has been successfull in accomplishing his Business. I wish he may acquit himself of the Contract he entered into last fall with Credit & Profit. He ought to be very particular in his Rects. or discharges. He has not yet written to me, am in daily expectation of receiving a letter from him which will certainly contain something interesting & amus ing to me. Am sorry to find that New Constitution is still in great Jeop ardy in Virga. The event is doubtful in S. Carolina. Anarchy will be the Consequence if it is rejected. ‘Tis with great difficulty that we can keep the Old Machine in Motion—without the prospect of the adop tion of the new it would be impossible. We have not yet been able to parade nine States—therefore have done nothing for Kentucky—can not think myself Justifiable in returning without—must give up the Idea of being in Kentucky at June Court—shall stay here ‘till August— therefore write on. I enjoy great health & am very happy—having heard that my Business is going on Smoothly in Kentuckey. Shall pay Boston a Visit before I return. Have you heard any thing from Brother James. Adieu in great haste Yours, J Brown RC (ViU: Breckinridge Papers in the collections of the Albemarle County Historical Society).
