May 18, 1788 103 not ask you any thing, you know the character of his Father & that is enough to ensure him your tenderest care and attention. I have enclosed to Mr. Jefferson a Pamplet containing a Number of papers written in this City upon the occasion of the Constitution which you will see. 2 I now inclose to you an address to the people of N. York lately published. 3 I also inclose you several papers—you & Mr. Jefferson will doubtless exchange the reading of what is addressed to each. Mr. Barlow is upon the point of departure and therefore I must conclude with assurances of the great regard with which I am my dr. sir, Your sincere Friend & Hl St., Ed Carrington RC (DLC: Short Papers). 1 See Carrington to Thomas Jefferson, May 14, notes 1 and 2. 2 See ibid., note 4. 3 For John Jay’s An Address to the People of the State of New-York, on the Subject of the Consti tution (New York: Samuel and John Loudon, 1788), which was first published in April, see Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 21,175. Itwas reprinted in The American Museum in June^ Samuel A. Otis to George Thatcher My Dear Sir New York 18 March [i.e., May] 1788.... I think I have not written you since the accession of Maryland to the new System 1 —the accounts are favorable from the South and unless Virginia does, I hardly apprehend a negative from the Southern States. Gore is here & goes for Philadelphia to morrow—He is going to lay hold of some of our great ones, and will mak[e] O. I dance to the music of £3700—sub rosa—King & other friends frequently ask after you, But I dont let them know I have but once heard from you. After several applications to Greenleaf he has paid me ten pounds & lid currency which wants your order. It was paid in paper and the difference between that & Specie is about seven pr Cent. In Congress we go on with seven States as usual, but I think nine are like to be upon the floor this week—The most deficient State is New York, 2 which is very extraordinary. There is a Doctr Williamson arived who seems to have got with him from No Carolina a quantum of self consequence. Kentucki business I think must unavoidably be agitated this week—Brown who by the way improves upon acquaintance is in cessant in his application. The New England members with [will?] cer tainly be in opposition—King tell me we are not empowered in his opinion, and if we were it is extremely improper in the present State of affairs. I find it is the general opinion that the New wheel will revolve—N Carolina, our pompous brother Williamson thinks there will be no
