104 May 18, 1788 fear of, nor perhaps will there be of S C, and Virginia with all stateli ness, will be very unwilling to stand alone; For N York will accede with the worst possible grace, I think she will be bullied into it. I think the people of Massachusetts, by what I have heard of their elections, are in a state of tollerable union & tranquility—This rejoices me, because N England united, will forever counterpoise any cabals & manoeuvres of the South.... Yours very truly, Sam A Otis 20th May. So great a favor as yours of 9th can by no means pass unno ticed. I am glad you found all things well in Massachusetts. I think their elections shew they are in pretty good Temper. I am doubtful how it will go with Lincoln 3 —Cochran 8c Gale were out of the ques tion in the other days uproar, whether the[y] were fortunate eno [ugh] not to discover themselves or really innocent, is not easily to be determined. They however escaped censure.... Your most Huml Sert, Sam A Otis MS not found; reprinted from Historical Magazine, 2d ser. 6 (December 1869): 345-46. 1 News of Maryland’s ratification of the Constitution on April 26 was received by Con gress May 8. See JCC, 34:149n; and PCC, item 70, fols. 557-60. 2 New York’s representation was the subject of the following letter between two of the state’s delegates, Ezra L’Hommedieu to Leonard Gansevoort dated “Suffolk County May 15. 1788.” “Last Evening I received your favour of the 24th of last Month in which you request me to releive you in your Attendance at New York. Had I received your letter Timely, I should have so arranged my Business as to have attended in your stead for the Time you request: but at present it is impracticable for me to leave home before next month, and it is then probable I shall not be able to attend Congress. If I am elected to attend the Convention, I do not see how it will be possible for me to attend at New York next month except a few Days, & as I propose after the Convention to attend the proposed Treaty, in Case it should take place, I beleive it will be best to send on, or rather request Mr. Yates to take his seat, he having no public Business to divert him (as I know of) from the same. Mr. Gelston informed me about Ten Days ago that you proposed leaving New York the first of May but receiving no word from you I concluded there either would be a Representation of the State, or that so little Business was done, the same might be not necessary at present. I hope no Inconvenient [Inconvenience] will attend our States not being represented for a short Time, and am sure no blame will be laid to you for attending to your urgent Business at home after having been so long abroad.” Gratz Collection, PHi. 3 See Otis to Benjamin Lincoln, May 8, note. Cyrus Griffin to James Madison My dear sir N. York May 19th. [1788] I am honored with your two letters of May 1 & 3. 1 Paradise was embarked—and carried to Mr Jefferson the debates you mention, and other publications worth attention.
