106 May 21, 1788 present & had effected a Riot. In this State of Intelligence & being thoroughly chagrined by a Story so obviously calculated to injure a very respectable Character & with him to injure the general Charac ter of the State I thought it my duty to prepare a Paragraph and cause it to be published which is thought by the Readers to put the Matter in a very different or in a new Point of Light. 2 The inclosed paper contains the Paragraph which if you think worth while you will for ward to Govr. Caswell. As I had no particular Information concerning the circumstances of the Dobbs Riot you may presume that I could not direcdy and pointedly contradict every assertion of Mr Martin, I was therefore obliged to account for the Riot by reference to private disputes which otherwise I should have had no desire to mention, but even under this necessity you see that I have taken Care to cast no shade on the Character of any individual. I conceive that I am pos sessed of some Philosophy & Patience but still I have not patience suf ficient to be silent or unconcerned when I conceive that the Charac ter of a friend is injured. I am Dr sr, Your obedt servt, Hu Williamson RC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). 1 That is, Martin’s North Carolina Gazette, published by Francois Xavier Martin at New Bern since January 1786. Clarence S. Brigham, History and Bibliography of American News papers, 1690—1820, 2 vols. (Worcester, Mass.: American Antiquarian Society, 1947), 2:771. 2 Williamson’s “Paragraph” on the “Dobbs Riot,” which was published in the New York Daily Advertiser of May 20 and the Independent Journal of May 21, emphasized the private character of the “fracas” between Col. Benjamin Shepard and William Barfield “relative to the proposed Constitution” which resulted in Shepard’s death. Paine Wingate to Sarah Wingate My dear Sally New York May 21. 1788. I received your’s of the tenth Instant last evening, and as you think I have neglected writing to you as often as to some others, I shall now discharge my debt to you before any body else. You will not expect that I shall write to you as frequendy as to your mother, But you may depend on your share in common with the rest of the children. Your letter gives me a good deal pleasure. It is very well expressed & perti nent. You need not feel uneasy in writing a letter to any body. It is true there are defects in spelling which I could wish you knew how to mend, but these are very fashionable errors in young ladies. I have observed that you are apt to be too diffident of yourself & of what you say & do. This may proceed from a good cause. It may proceed from an anxious desire to appear well. But it should never be indulged in bashfulness. This is very unfashionable. A young lady should be very
