108 May 22, 1788 South Carolina Delegates to Thomas Pinckney Sir New York May 22d. 1788 The frequent Interruptions that have happen’d in the Sitting of Congress prevent us from being able to communicate any Proceed ings of a very interesting Nature. Since our last Letter to your Excellency, Congress has receiv’d the Ratifications of the new Constitution by the States of Georgia and Maryland, and also a Letter from the Governor of Rhode Island in forming that the Legislature of that State had referr’d the new Consti tution to the Consideration & Decision of the People at large in their Town Meetings, and that a Majority of Votes were against the Adop tion of it. 1 This important Question being now before the Convention of our State, we have only to express our Hopes that Wisdom will guide it’s Deliberations & Decision. An Arret of the King of France of the 29th December 1787, giving farther Encouragement to the Trade of the United States has been transmitted to Congress by Mr. Jefferson, and a Copy of the same will be forwarded to your Excellency from the Office of Foreign Affairs. 2 It was expected that a Treaty wou’d have been effected with the sev eral Nations of Indians in the Neighbourhood of the Muskingum some time in the current Month, but the latest Advices from the Su perintendant of Indian Affairs there, 3 give reason to suppose that it will be a Month or two longer before the Chiefs of the Nations will be in Readiness to assemble. With respect to the Claims of Compensation for the Services of the Ship South Carolina, nothing can yet be done by us, no farther Ad vices of the Success of Mr. Carmichael’s Application being receiv’d. On Enquiry of Mr. Gardoqui Charge des Affaires of Spain, we find that he has no Instructions from his Court upon that Subject. 4 We have the Honor to be with due Respect, Your Excellency’s Most obedt. Servts., DI. Huger John Parker. Thos. Tud. Tucker RC (ScCoAH: Governor’s Messages). Written by Tucker and signed by Tucker, Huger, and Parker. 1 January 5 and May 1 letters of the governors of Georgia and Maryland enclosing their states’ ratifications had been read in Congress on May 5 and 8 respectively. An April 5 letter of Gov. John Collins reporting the yeas and nays of the Rhode Island town meetings was also read May 5. See JCC, 34:131n, 140n, 149n. 2 This arret, which had been discussed by Thomas Jefferson in his December 31, 1787, letter to John Jay (Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 12:466-71, 479-83], had actually been transmitted to Jay by William Short in his letter of January 1. Short also enclosed a printed letter of December 29 to Jefferson from the French comptroller general of fi nance, Claude Guillaume Lambert. They are in PCC, item 87, 2:35-46. Both were sent
