May 26, 1788 113 Contrary to expectation it so happens that we cannot bring nine states to act upon the floor of Congress, and this day one of the Mary land Gentlemen 1 is going away which will throw us aback probably for some weeks. Messrs. Jefferson and Adams have lately met at Amsterdam, and have been able to borrow for the united states another million of florins from the dutch, upon the prospect of the New constitution being established, but Congress have not yet ratified the contract yet certainly will do it without a single objection. 2 They seem to think that the war in Europe will be general, but con fess that no positive Judgment can be formed from such a chaos of politics as that part of the world now exhibits. Colonel Smith is just arrived from England, but has told us nothing of a secret or interesting nature. 3 The Courtiers are ridiculing our sit uation very much, and say upon all occasions in a laughing manner that when the united states shall assume some sort of Government then England will speak out. Gentlemen are perpetually calling to know what will be the event of the Constitution in Virginia—do, my kind friend, at this particular cri sis write to me from time to time that I may give the best information upon the subject. Accept the enclosed papers—and accept too the best wishes & re gards of your affet friend and obedient Servant, C Griffin RC (DLC: Madison Papers). 1 That is, David Ross. See JCC, 34:179, 184. 2 See the preceding entry. 3 That is, William Stephens Smith, secretary of the American legation in London. Charles Thomson to William Ellery New York May 26. 1788 I have received your favour of the 18 & agreeably to your request transmit you herewith a list of the members now in Congress. It might have been expected that even the crooked wisdom of your Know ye men would before this have pointed out to them the necessity of altering their conduct, not from a conviction of the iniquity of their past measures but with a view to secure their wicked gains. But it seems as if they were destined to be examples, and to warn the other states against the evils and mischiefs, of pure democracy. I hope the good people of your state will be awakened to a sense of their situa tion & the contempt to which they have exposed themselves by suffer ing themselves to be guided by unprincipled designing men.
