114 May 26, 1788 I am sorry for your losses. We have encountered together a severe storm. We have been surrounded with dark blackening clouds and have seen them dispelled and followed by a bright sky & clear sun shine. I confess it is enough to try the patience of Job to have passed safely the tempestuous Ocean and be in danger of drowning in a duck puddle. The sentiment you allude to in the close of your letter was not “That it was a pity that the war had not continued longer” but that too speedy a termination of the war was not to be wished—And that I was more afraid of peace than of a continuance 1 of the war. Sensible of our inexperience in the art of government and of the self sufficiency of those who would probably take the reins I dreaded the mischief that might flow from the wanton abuse of power and liberty too easily acquired. I confess we have escaped better than I expected. I am therefore encouraged to hope for a favorable issue and to conclude with “forsan et hac olim enemissi juvabit.” 2 RC (Christie's Catalog, June 8, 1990, item 49, illustration). 1 Remainder of text from Christie’s Catalog transcript, ibid. 2 Cf. Virgil, Aeneid 1. 203, “forsan et haec olim meminisse juvabit’’—“Perhaps it may one day be a pleasure to remember these sufferings.” Henry T. Riley, A Dictionary of Latin and Greek Quotations, Proverbs, Maxims and Mottos (London: George Bell and Sons, 1876), p. 129. Charles Thomson to Thomas Hutchins Si r Office of Secretary of Congress. May 26th. 1788. I embrace the earliest opportunity to transmit to You herewith en closed an extract from the Journals of Congress, by which You will be informed that the United States in Congress Assembled have been pleased to reelect You Geographer of the United States & that Your Commission is to continue in force for two Years unless sooner revoked. 1 I beg leave to congratulate You on the occasion, and to assure You of the sincere esteem with which I am, Sir, Your Obedient Humble servant LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 For the enclosed May 26 extract, seeJCC, 34:180. Charles Thomson to the States Sir, (Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress, May 26th. 1788 I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency herewith en-
