May 27, 1788 121 tion this year were, The attention of the public was so fixed to the new System it seldom admitted of a full representation, When nine states have assembled other attention have unavoidably obtruded them selves. The ferment of the public mind also made any additional heat an object of great circumspection. Congress supposed if there was a disposition in the people to pay, there were old requisitions to exer cise it upon; If there was no disposition, New requisitions, of which ei ther no notice, or a resentful one, would probably be taken, appeared neither a measure of discretion, or honorary to Government. From Europe the rumour seems to be of war. The two Empires have attacked the Turks in force, & the European politicians are of opin ion, unless the disciple of Mahomet gets some assistance he will be overwhelmed. It is however said upon pretty good authority, that Spain objects to the admission of the Russians into the Mediter ranean; And in fact when England & France disarmed, Spain has kept fifteen Line Ships equipt; Some say to awe her American Subjects who grow refractory, Whilst others assert the keeping Russia from navigat ing in the Mediterranean is the real object, and that She is backed by France. In Holland the Statholder rides triumphant over the liberties of his Country. He has however done Congress the honor of a Letter since his exaltation. In France their affairs are still embroiled. The Spirit of liberty seems to have awoke, and this makes odd work in a Monarchy. Their reforms are however an uphill business; It seems to be a contest of King & ministry against the financiers & property; Which will pre vail requires no great penetration to predict. The Marquis de Fayette will probably share the fate of the Duke de Sully under Harry 4th, who with much superior abilities attempting to reform abuses, stired up such an hornetts nest, as had well-nigh stung both him & his master to death. Banishment & disgrace of the honest minister alone saved the King for a time; Who at the head of his army, whilst his financiers were rolling in wealth, & the superfluities of peculation, wrote his faithful Mentor, not indeed in the usual stile of Monarchs, “For G ds sake Sully send me a clean Shirt & pair of boots being destitute of both.” The reformers it is said have rather encreased expence hith erto. They are however amongst other things about to discontinue the packetts to America upon principles of oeconomy. The late arret in favor of Commerce obtained by Mr Jefferson under countenance of Marquis de Fayette, is clamoured at by the chambers of commerce, & is refused registration by the Parliament, without which it is too precarious for any dependence. 5 It is confidendy asserted that England, Holland & Prussia are de termined upon an offensive & defensive. The Court of Berlin it is thot however will demur. The Prussians know it is for their interest to keep well with France; And their cool politicians view the late inter-
