May 30, 1788 129 for a coxcombry of a worse kind—that of the Mind. He is now a very profound politician, & indeed so much so that he is often quite unin telligible. This I regret for I think well of his honor & principles. His Wife, who is a daughter of Mr. J. Adams, is the negative being de scribed in Mrs. Shandy. The Baron passed the winter at the same lodging house with me. 5 To this he has come at last. The tower is now dismantled & deserted, & he is once more upon the Justice or generosity of the public. But the public has neither—& he has only to choose between starving here or begging in Europe. This is calamitous to him & disgracefull to Us. He is now with North 6 who by the way is married to Duane’s daughter & exit’d to the Mohawk. We have a French Minister now with us 7 —& if France had wish’d to destroy the litde remembrance that is left of her & her exertions—she would have sent just such a minister—distant, haughty & penurious— & entirely govern’d by the caprice of a little, singular, whimsical, hys terical old woman 8 whose delight is in playing with a Negro child and caressing a monkey. I wish to God we had paid our debts to our good ally & were well rid of her—for there’s some danger in remaining the connextion of a pow’r whose character I must just suggest my reason for it. For ‘Tis so treasonable that I might else again be suspected of being a British Emissary. Twill be eno’ to bid you remember her con duct to Corsica—to Poland—to Geneva—to Holland & now to the Turks—whom after 40 years connexion she abandons. I don’t travell out of my own Memory for the oldest of these instances—Your’s which goes farther back will remember others. My idea however goes but to this—that ‘tis obviously our intrest to be but the distant acquaintance not the intimate friend of any Euro pean Pow’r. You will I beleive subscribe to this conclusion. We hope to have seen you to the No. this spring & indeed report went so far as to remove you entirely from Virginia & set you down either in Philada. or New York for life. I hope ‘tis more than report alone—& will even believe it to be so till you yourself contradict it. Be so good as to make my most respectful compliments to Mrs. Gates & accept for your happiness & her’s my best wishes. Your affec tionate friend & servant, J Armstrongjr. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 Not found. 2 That is, Armstrong had declined an appointment as one of the judges of the North west Territory, for which see Armstrong to Charles Thomson, January 21, 1788. 3 Cf. Armstrong to Alida Livingston, July 27, note 1. 4 That is, William Stephens Smith. 5 Baron Steuben. 6 Maj. William North.
