132 May 30, 1788 To day Congress has received a very serious Complaint from the Minister of France concerning the Conduct of the Magestracy in one of the States protecting a French Pirate, another & mournful proof that unless we have a Federal Government we shall not long escape from the depredations of some Foreign Nation. 2 I was favored by your Excellencys Letter by Mr. Swann 3 but beg you to note that this is neither the third or fourth I have had the honor of writing or with which I may have troubled you already. I am &c Hugh Williamson Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 See the preceding entry. 2 This “very serious Complaint” from the comte de Moustier was submitted this day by John Jay to Congress, which referred it back to Jay for a report. Jay’s June 6 report on the matter was referred in turn to a congressional committee consisting of Alexander Hamilton, Edward Carrington, Nathan Dane, Jonathan Dayton, and Samuel A. Otis, whose June 12 report was adopted by Congressjune 13. The case involved the authority of the French consul in Virginia to try a French ship captain on charges of fraud and theft after landing in Norfolk. The French captain, Joseph Marie Anne Ferrier, had been released under the laws of Virginia after having confessed his crimes and was awaiting transportation to Nantes to be tried formally under French admiralty law. The French consul, Martin Oster, had presented the partic ulars of the case to the governor of Virginia as early as October 2, 1787, seeking permis sion to extradite Ferrier to France, and had renewed the request November 11 after re ceiving no answer. Virginia’s refusal to honor Oster’s request had led finally to Moustier’s appeal to Jay and to Congress. In his June 6 report to Congress, Jay explained that he should discuss Ferrier’s extra dition with the governor of Virginia. But as the issue also involved the status of a con sular convention between France and the United States, which had been under negotia tion since 1784 and on which Thomas Jefferson had already been fully instructed, he argued that no attempt should be made to alter the course of those negotiations. Alexander Hamilton’s June 12 committee report endorsed Jay’s recommendations, and the following day Congress directed Jay to communicate the matter to the governor of Virginia “to the end that the said Executive may communicate to Congress the neces sary information on the subject.” The result was a protracted correspondence that failed to resolve the case before the demise of Congress in October, and which there fore had to await the ratification of a Franco-American consular convention by the new federal government, to which Jay submitted the issue in July 1789. For the congressional proceedings on the case, see JCC, 34:192, 206—7, 212, 217-22, 407, 550. For the lengthy correspondence relating to it, see Diplomatic Correspondence, 1783-89, 1:253-75. See also Virginia Delegates to Edmund Randolph, July 25, 1788. 3 Not found. Edward Carrington to James Madison My dear Sir, New York May 31. 1788 I had the pleasure to inclose you by the last post the British Act of Parliament upon the subject of our Trade. 1 You will now receive in one of the papers inclosed an ordinance of the Province of Quebec,
