134 May 31,1788 for all such of our Commodities as are wanted for her West India Is lands, and for Naval Stores, to Quebec. There may still be another, though more remote object, the Allurement of the Commerce, and with that, the Affections of our Western Inhabitants by means of the Lakes and the River St. Lawrence, to her purposes. But at the same time that we may be sensible how much we are exposed, in various quarters, to the insiduous policy of this Nation, her solicitude is also discoverable for the acquisition of our Commodities, which evinces the vanity of the boasted competency of Canada & Nova Scotia, to the fur nishing of her several demands. The truth is, the West India Islands are dependent for provisions, lumber, and many other things upon impor tations, and these articles are attainable from the United States on much lower terms than from any more distant Country: Naval Stores are also furnished by these States on such terms that it is an object with Great Britain to import them from us, not only for the West India Trad ing vessels, but also for her European Service. On the other hand what we derive from an intercourse with the West India Islands, are at best, but Articles of Luxury, nor is the production of them confined to the Territories of Great Britain; as to Naval Stores they are our own. Thus viewing the Matter, she is evidently the dependent party, and under a wise policy, supported by an energetic Government, might be made to accept, instead of presuming to prescribe, the Terms of Commercial intercourse. As to the other object, I hope that the benefits of a better Government than we have hitherto had, the improvement & extension of our inland Navigation, & the free use of the Mississippi, added to the difficulties which from climate attend that of the River St. Lawrence will all Conspire to prevent its being in any degree effected. I also have the Honor to inclose papers Containing some of the de bates of the Convention of South Carolina 2 which indicate the good disposition of that Body towards the Constitution. I have the honor to [be], with great respect, your Excellencies Most Obt. servt. Ed. Carrington RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 For which see Carrington to James Madison, May 28, note 4; and the preceding entry, note 2. 2 See Carrington to James Madison, May 30, note. Abraham Yates to Abraham G. Lansing Dr Sir New York 1 June 1788 I enclose you Maclains, Horners And Greeleafs papers. 1 If you Chuse I Can Continue them. These I get as often as they Come out and if you Chuse I Can furnish you With all or either of them.
