June 2, 1788 135 Your News is verry agreable in Respect to the Assembly Election, And so a letter McKesson Received from Mr Ray Informing that the Andes had Carried in Columbia by a Majority of scarce 300 of the Lowest Anti to the Highest federal. But What I Can find Among the federalist here they are in hopes that the Andes will not Dare Refuse Adopting the Constitution, they may Indeed adjorn, And Adjorn Again—but they will at Last Adopt it. It is Supposed by the federals that they Will be One third, the Andes Know at present of None but New York 9, Kings 2, Queen 2 & Westchester 6, Which is but 19—the latter has been most Shamefully taken in. It is expected that South Carolina Will Adopt the New Con stitution. I wish they May not but wether they Do or not Will Make no Alteration With me nor do I think Ought to Make an Alteration in the State. I Remain Sr, Yours Affy Abr. Yates Junr P.S. I am well and Wish the family So. I have Sent With Jacob Pruin 4/ of Small Honny Cookies for the Children. RC (NN: Yates Papers). 1 That is, the New-York Daily Gazette, published by John and Alexander M’Lean; the New-York Morning Post, published by William Morton (formerly Samuel Horner); and the New-York Journal, published by Thomas Greenleaf. Hugh Williamson to James Madison Dear sir New York June 2nd 1788 By the Time this comes to Hand you will be pretty well engaged in discussing the new Constitution & attempting to convince men who came forward with the Resolution not to be convinced. Of all the wrong heads who have started in opposition none have been men tioned who appear to be so palpably wrong as the People of Kentucke. It is said that some antifed in Maryland on the last Winter fastened on the Ear of Genl Wilkinson who was accidentally there and persuaded him that in case of a new Govt, the Navigation of the Mississippi would infallibly be given up. Your Recollection must certainly enable you to say that there is a Proviso in the new Sistem which was inserted for the express purpose of preventing a majority of the Senate or of the States which is considered as the same thing from giving up the Mississippi. It is provided that two thirds of the Members present in the senate shall be required to concur in making Treaties and if the southern states attend to their Duty, this will imply % of the States in the Union together with the President, a security rather better than the present 9 States especially as Vermont & the Province of Main may be added to
