142 June 5, 1788 contradict opinions industriously circulated which hold up an Idea of our being torn with party, & divided in sentiments. The accession of S Carolina is an event which strengthens our ex pectations that a reform will take place in federal measures, and these are rational, from the impression that it w[aits?] upon Verginia & No Carolina. Enclosed are the papers containing all the News in this quarter, And with my kind regards to my niece & connexions remain, Your friend & most huml sert, Sam. A. Otis RC (MHi: Lincoln Papers). Rhode Island Delegates to John Collins Sir, New York the 5 of June 1788. We Consider that it is our duty to Inform your Excellency of our Safe arival here, 1 and a[l]tho from the Shortness of the Time we are unable to give a particular account of the business before Congress we in General inform, That there is Several matters of importance under Consideration, One of which is the Dividing of the State of Virginia and thereby making a Fourteenth State by the Name of Kentucky. It appears by the acts of the Legislature of that State that they have agreed to that measure & there is a memorial from the Inhabitants of that Country for that purpose now before Congress. The Expediency of Such a measure At this Time we Submit to your Excellencies Con sideration without making any Comment thereon. There is at this Time Eleven States Represented and when any mat ters of Importance to the Union are acted upon we Shall Emediately Communicate them. We are under the Necessity of informing your Excellency that it is Necessary for the State to make further provision for our Support which we Desire may be done in Such manner as to be least Injurous to the State and be productive of the greatest advantage to us. We do not presume to dictate but Submit wheather it would not be the most Eligible mode to appoint a person in the State to receive Such Sum of money as the Honble. Assemb[l]y grant and Supply us with the net proceeds of it. By this means we Shall be furnish’d much Sooner, and Releav’d from the great Inconveniency that will attend on us if Directed to Draw the money when at this distance from the State. With perfect Respect and Esteem, We have the Honor to be, your Excellencys Most Obedt. & Humble Servts, Peleg Arnold Jona. J. Hazard
