June 6, 1788 143 RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Arnold and signed by Arnold and Hazard. 1 For the arrival of Arnold and Hazard, who took their seats in Congress May 6 and June 2, respectively, see JCC, 34:141, 193. Alexander Hamilton to John Sullivan Dear Sir: New York, June 6, 1788. You will no doubt have understood that the Antifederal party has prevailed in this State by a large majority. 1 It is therefore of the utmost importance that all external circumstances should be made use of to influence their conduct. This will suggest to you the great advantage of a speedy decision in your State, if you can be sure of the question, and a prompt communication of the event to us. With this view, permit me to request that the instant you have taken a decisive vote in favor of the Constitution, you send an express to me at Poughkeepsie. 2 Let him take the shortest route to that place, change horses on the road, and use all possible diligence. I shall with pleasure defray all expenses’ and give a liberal reward to the person. As I suspect an effort will be made to precipitate us, all possible safe dispatch on your part, as well to obtain a decision as to communicate the intelligence of it, will be desirable. MS not found; reprinted from Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 5:2. In the April elections for the New York ratifying convention, the antifederalists won 46 seats, carrying nine counties, while the federalists won only four counties and 19 seats. Ibid., 4:648n.3. Hamilton was in Poughkeepsie for the opening of the New York ratifying convention on June 17, probably having left New York with the federalist delegates who departed with fanfare the 14th, for which see Abraham Yates to Abraham Lansing, June 15. Samuel A. Otis to Theodore Sedgwick DearSir NewYork 6th June 1788 After my congratulations upon the respectable elections of the pre sent year, Give me leave to add them upon the favorable appearances from the South. Verginia is now in Convention, And must be influ enced by the unanimity of Maryland, and the more recent accession of So. Carolina by a majority of two to one. The Gentlemen here, most acquainted with the affairs of Verginia, entertain the strongest hopes, but so great is the object, not without a degree of anxiety for the event. North Carolina looks well at present, and will certainly join the list unless Verginia should be so unfortunate as to stand out, In which case N Carolina may wavor.
