144 June 6,1788 In NY the opposition is powerful, but I think they will play the politician, procrastinate until the determination of Verginia & N Hamshire is known. If they assent Join them. Congress have been so closely pressed with an application from Kentucky that the question cannot be parryed much longer. It is of great importance to the E states to bring Vermont forward; But this cannot be done without the agency of that State, Which for reasons of which I am not apprised is quite passive. No objection could operate against these measures if they went hand in hand; And really the argu ments in favor of Kentucky are powerful. They have near one hundred thousand inhabitants at the immense distance of 800 miles from the seat of Government. They are courted by other powers to reject their allegiance to the USA. Their darling hope of opening the Missisippi is cherished by those who wish ill to the Union. And Verginia are, how ever extraordinary it may appear, not only willing but sanguine for the measure. The other business of Congress is detailed to the Legislature in our official letter directed to the Governour. 1 And some few mat ters not proper for a public communication are made to confidential friends in the hands of my old & tried friend Mr Davis; 2 To whom, and to the numerous list in both Houses that I have the felicity of puting in the same class, you will present me very respectfully. In expectation of seeing you here upon the recess of the General Court I am, Sir, your most Huml Sev, Sam A Otis 3 RC (MHi: Sedgwick Papers). 1 See Massachusetts Delegates tojohn Hancock, May 27. 2 See Otis to Caleb Davis, May 27. 3 Otis also wrote the following private letter to a “Mr Greenleaf” the following day. As it is addressed only to “Mr Greenleaf,” it seems likely that it was hand delivered to a per son in New York City, but as Greenleaf was about to leave the city and would be away in definitely, he was probably not the New York printer Thomas Greenleaf. “My Dear Sir, You need be under no kind of apprehension that your affair with Mr H however public it may become will injure your reputation. Your universally polite mod est & obliging demeanour must forever rest the blame upon that rash & unfortunate man; And the spirit & firmness with which you vindicated your honor must endear you to your friends, and encrease the reputation you had before acquired. “I had anticipated your intimations in a letter to Mr D, I only regret that my pen can not do you Justice. As you leave Town before I can have oppy of paying you my personal respects, Permit me to wish you an agreeable Journey, not only to Philadelphia but thro life—And to assure you I shall esteem it a favor to be inserted in the list of your Corre spondents Promising the exactest attention upon my part whenever I can communicate any thing that will profit or amuse. “With my Compliments to Mr & Mrs Ingraham, accept my assurances of being with much esteem, Your friend & Most Huml Sert, Sam A Otis.” Etting, Old Congress Collec tion, PHi.
