152 June 7, 1788 the expences attending the service of Mr David Henley, third Commis sioner appointed to adjust and settle the claims of Virginia on Ac count of the western territory ceded by that commonwealth to the United States. 1 With great respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency s Most Obedient & Most Humble servant, Cha Thomson RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Addressed: “His Excellency The Governour of Virginia.” 1 For the enclosed June 4 resolves, adopted on the recommendation of the board ot treasury to whom a June 11, 1787, memorial from Henley had been referred, see/CC, 32:308n, 34:201-2. Charles Thomson to the States Sir Circular Office of Secretary of Congress, June 7th. 1788. I have the honor to transmit to Your Excellency herewith enclosed to be laid before the Legislature a state of the representation in Con gress for the month of May. 1 With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient & Most Humble servant, Cha Thomson RC (InHi: Mitten Collection of Presidents of Congress). Addressed: “His Excellency The Governour of Connecticut.” LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 For this enclosure and the seven other monthly attendance lists sent to the states during the Congress of 1788, see Appendix, pp. 537-46. Nathan Dane to Alexander Hodgdon gi r i New York June 8. 1788 I a few days Since received a letter from Mr. Higginson in which he mentions that he has not received the £100 due to him from the Trea sury on my draught. As I made the negociation with him expecting there would be no failure, I shall feel myself extremely obliged to you to make arrangements, to pay him, the first opportunity that you may have in your power—so well acquainted, I am fully persuaded, you are with the affairs of the Treasury, that I need not mention how much the small credit it has must be effected by any failure in cases where such particular negociations are made. As Mr. Higginson when he wrote to me requested that I would write you on the subject, Allow
