156 June 9,1788 I hope by the next opportunity to be able to send you the second volume of the Federalist. I have the Honor to be, my dear Sir, with great esteem, yr. sincere Friend & Hl st., Ed. Carrington RC (DLC:Jefferson Papers). 1 See Carrington to Jefferson, May 14. 2 That is, the New York Journal and the Daily Advertiser for June 7. 3 See, for example, Carrington to Jefferson, April 24, note 2, and May 14, note 4; and Doc. Hist. ofRatif., 9:746n.4. 4 For publication of the letters of the “Federal Farmer,” see Richard Henry Lee to El bridge Gerry, September 29, 1787, note. Edward Carrington to Edmund Randolph Sir, New York June 9. 1788 The delegation have been Honoured with your Excellencies favor of the 25th Ult. enclosing the reasons of the Commissioner for requir ing an extension of the time allowed for the exhibition of the Accts, of Virginia against the United States. They are Submitted to Congress with a motion for the prolongation of the time, and these are now in reference to the Treasury Board for their report. 1 We shall have the issue ascertained as early as possible, but cannot undertake to encour age an expectation of success. In the mean time it will be well for Mr. Dunscomb to proceed without reliance upon the extension of the time for rendering the Accounts. Should his evidences be incompleat he may nevertheless render the Accounts, & prosecute his measures for collecting all that can be got. And as to the forms and arrange ments of the Accounts, although it would have been a desirable cir cumstance for the State, that he should have stated them, yet that business, so far as alterations may be necessary to conform them to the Statements of the United States, may be left upon the Commis sioner for that Party. I have the Honor to be, with great respect, Yr. Excellencies Most Obt. Servt., Ed. Carrington RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 For the board’s denial of an earlier request for an extension, see Virginia Delegates to Randolph, April 3, note. On May 21 the Virginia Council had directed Andrew Dun scomb, Virginia’s commissioner for settling the state’s Continental accounts, to draft a letter demonstrating why “the limitted term of time for presenting the Claims of Vir ginia against the United States will be too short to insure justice to the State.” In his May 23 reply to Governor Randolph, Dunscomb argued that the “forms and evidences de manded” by district commissioner William Winder regarding recruiting bounties, de preciation of pay, militia advances, requisitions, and claims for advances to the quarter master, commissary, clothing, hospital, and marine departments made Dunscomb’s task so complex that he was unable to organize and deliver all of the state’s claims by June
