160 June 9, 1788 upon the subject. 2 I should be very unwilling that he should leave the school at Exeter & loose the benefit of his instruction. And at the same time would not have him pressed with any burdens that could well be avoided. I wish that you would encourage George as much as you can & make it as agreeable to him as it may be. You are sensible that whatever would make him uneasy would necessarily make me so to know it. You may tell Sally that she may read any of my letters to you, or to her aunt Wingate when she pleases, & to her mother if she thinks proper. I suppose that you have the same liberty with your let ters to them. Indeed there is nothing private or interesting in them, but they are wrote principly with a view of expressing my friendship and concern for you all, & some times for the sake of a little diversion. I was last Saturday at the Jewish Synagogue which was their Sabbath day. The service was all performed in hebrew, was very long, and chiefly read in a sort of singing voice. Only the men were allowed to be in the lower part of the house & the women sat in the gallery & went up, into it on the outside of the house. They were dressed very fashionably. I have likewise been at the Romish Church & to a Ger man Church where I could not understand a word that was said. I have indeed been to most of the places of worship in the city in order to see their different customs. I believe I shall not think fit to change my religion for any of them. Let Mr. Wiggin know that I have not heard yet from Mother Fox any further. I wish your health & every de sireable enjoyment you can have. Am your affectionate father, P. Wingate RC (MH-H: Wingate Papers). 1 That is, North Carolina delegate John Swann. 2 Not found. Samuel A. Otis to Theodore Sedgwick My Dear friend New York 10th June 1788 I closed my last letter 1 without observing that having become in debted to my late friend Mr B Lincoln Jur I assigned him some notes which I understand he put into your hands to collect, and as I should be brot into fresh trouble if the debts assigned him should prove bad; your goodness will excuse my anxiety to have them attended to. Your friends here are frequently enquiring whether & when [you] design making your appearance on the ground. [M]y answer is that being Pastor or dux of the flock, negatively, not until he has dismissed it, But positively we hope soon after that period; For altho we have a full Congress, the Honble. Speaker of the Honble Mass Assembly
