June 11, 1788 161 would be an additional Honor to that Honble body the Congress & a great pleasure to Your friend & H Sev, Sam A Otis RC (MHi: Sedgwick Papers). 1 See Otis to Sedgwick, June 6. Charles Thomson to George Handley Sir Office of Secy of Congress. June 10th. 1788. On the 13th of April 1787 I had the honor to transmit to Your Ex cellency sundry resolutions passed by the United States in Congress Assembled respecting the treaty of peace between the United States of America and Great Britain. Also a letter to Your Excellency which was unanimously agreed to in Congress on the same subject. Not having heard from You touching this matter, I take the liberty of sending You a duplicate. 1 The reasons why your State should pass the law recom mended are so fully and so forcibly stated in the letter from Congress, that is needless to say any thing more on the subject, especially to Your State which with such unanimity & readiness hath adopted the new Constitution, which establishes the principle, that Treaties made or which shall be made under the Authority of the United States shall be the supreme law of the land. I presume therefore it will only be neces sary for Your Excellency to bring this matter to the recollection of Your Legislature, if they have not already passed the law required. With great respect, I have the honor &c LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). Addressed: “Govr. of Georgia.” 1 See Thomson to the States, April 13, 1787. Hugh Williamson to James Iredell Dear Sir New York 11 th June 1788 The public Papers have not for many days afforded us any News, all Expectation is turned towards Virginia, We take for granted, I do at least, that N Carolina will follow Virginia in adopting or rejecting. I confess that my Hopes are not sanguine, but of this I do not consider myself bound to say all that I think. Congress have before them sundry matters of considerable Import which have been eventing in the Course of seven Months for there have been nine states on the floor for a few days last past only. Having come on here with a Resolu tion to indulge myself in as much Leisure as any others of my fellow
