162 June 11,1788 Labourers, the Start I have some how been constrained to take has not fully accorded with my Plan, but I shall try to mind after a few Land Questions are determined. Those Questions are extremely weighty as the national Funds are concerned. At present I have not Leisure even to return Visits. Will you be pleased to forward a Line to Mrs. Templeman who probably is anxious to hear the Fate of her Son. 1 You may inform her that he was inoculated on Thursday Week in the morning, that on Sat urday morning last the Pock had made their appearance, two or three on his Face & severall on his Limbs. On Sunday a few more appeared. On that Night he indulged on a feather Bed, which for several nights I had caused to be removed, and on Monday he had some 20 or 30 Pocks on his Face, the whole is still a Bagatelle; he continues to walk about & has done so every Day. He would now attend in Congress 2 was it not that the Place on his Arm in which he was inoculated being not quite free from Inflammation renders it inconvenient for him to put on a Coat with tight Sleeves. His Servt who as usual for Africans had the eruption 24 Hours before the Master was first relieved from his Suspicions. I was yesterday surprised by a message of the Spanish Minister, who sent one of his Family to our lodging to apologise for his not visiting us in Person for he has not had the small Pox. He had left his Card at the Door without coming in. Mrs Dawson whom I saw two Evenings since, also her Daughter & grand Daughter were well, but she complains of hearing very seldom from her Edenton Friends. I know that writing Paper is scarce in Edenton & therefore was able to make one good Ex cuse, I presume that no other good one could be made. Be so good as give my Respects to Mrs Iredell & the othe Ladies of your Family. I am Dr sir, Your obedt serv, Hu Williamson RC (NcD: Iredell Manuscripts). Addressed: “James Iredell Esq, Edenton.” Endorsed: “Ansd.June 25th. 1788.” 1 That is, North Carolina delegate John Swann. 2 Swann returned to his congressional seatjune 18. See JCC, 34:234, 239. William Bingham to Tench Coxe Dear Sir, New York June 12. 1788 I am much indebted to you for the agreable & important Commu nications contained in your Letter of the 10th Inst. The Ratification of Virginia will be an essential Accession of federal Force. Without her Cooperation & Assistance, the Union would not possess so robust a Constitution, nor be endued with strength Suffi cient to resist the Difficulties it will probably have to encounter.
