166 June 12,1788 he has mentioned in his letter. If my proceeding meets your wishes in this affair it will be with pleasure I serve you. I thank you for the information you have favored me with respect ing the adoption of the new Constitution. I hope that you will have the pleasure of hearing of its ratification in New Hampshire by the time you will receive this. For whatever imperfections experience may discover in it I am persuaded that you are in opinion with me that the present situation of our country makes it necessary. The event of the new Government taking place soon is now relyed upon, & I hope that we shall speedily feel the happy effects of it. The accounts from Vir ginia & No Carolina are favorable. New York is yet supposed to be an- tifederal but it is th6t she will not chuse to stand alone. All the states except two are now represented in congress & the delegates of those States are expected on soon. I will enclose for you a newspaper that you may see what little news we have here. I thank you for your kind ness in calling upon my family & informing me of their welfare. And be assured that I am with sentiments of due respect your most obed[i]ent & humble Servt., Paine Wingate RC (MH-H: bMSAm 1907). Paine Wingate to John Wendell Sir June 12,1788] Since I wrote the enclosed 1 I have seen a Letter from a member of convention in Virginia dated on the third day after they met, 2 who in forms that Mr. Pendleton was chosen President without opposition (he is federal)—That Governor Randolph had expressly declared for the ratification of the new Constitution without amendments—That this was done in a very handsome speech which made a favorable im pression—That the Convention had unanimously voted not to decide upon the constitution or any part of it until they had gone thro the whole by clauses in their deba[te] And that no question had yet de cided fully the sentiments of that body but that the appearance was fa vorable. Other accounts say that there is reckoned a majority of twelve in favor of the plan. Please to deliver to the Treasurer the letter di rected to him when you shall present the Bill. I am &c, Paine Wingate RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1907). 1 See the preceding entry. 2 See Gilman to Sullivan, this date, note.
