June 13,1788 167 Thomas Tudor Tucker to St. George Tucker My beloved Brother June 13th. 1788. Hall of Congress. I have been long in Expectation of hearing from you either by your Sons or by Post, & now begin to grow impatient & uneasy lest any thing disagreeable should have occurr d. I believe Dr. Johnson is not yet returned, but suppose it will not be many days longer before he ar rives. Mr. Daniel Tucker arrived here from Bermuda about 10 Days ago & left our Friends in general pretty well. Nothing new from thence except that they are engaging pretty extensively in the Fishery this Year, about 15 or 16 Vessels being intended for that Employment. The whaling Ships have done tolerably well, but not so much as has been reported. Ere this arrives you will have heard of the Decision of South Carolina in favor of the New Constitution. We hear that it is also in a favorable Way in your State. I shou’d be glad to know from time to time how your Convention is going on & what are really the Prospects. Indeed I have always supposed that Virginia as well as South Carolina wou’d adopt it. From the latter I am inform’d that the people in the interior parts of the Country are much opposed to it. However I suppose & hope they will acquiesce in the Voice of the Ma jority. For my own part I do not expect from it any miraculously bene ficial Effects immediately, whatever Time may bring about. The Im post appears to me to be almost the only Good that we shall for some time experience, & that will deprive several of the States at least of their chief Resource for the Support of their local Governments, not to say any thing of provision for the Payment of their public Debts, which already are so embarrassing that they puzzle the most ingenious to give them Support. As we are in Business, I cannot write & pay the necessary Attention. Remember me to the young Gentlemen & to all the Children with great Affection. Also to Miss Maria, Miss Carlos, & all other kind Friends. Pray write, as often as possible, & if I happen to be a little remiss (which however I do not intend to be) ascribe it ei ther to natural Indolence or (rather) to a degree of Perplexity I often feel from a Variety of Subjects of Business which as yet are not very fa miliar to me. Excuse me to Richd. & Theodorick. The Expectation of seeing them has made me less particular in fulfilling my Obligation of writing to them. God bless you, my beloved Brother pray Your’s most sincerely, Tho. Tud. Tucker [PS.] It may possibly be acceptable to you to be inform’d how this State stands affected towards the New Constitution. What Effect the fa vorable Division of Virginia may have here I know not, but the Calcu lations at present are that the Division will be as follows—for the Con stitution 19 Members, against it 46, the whole Number being 65. RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers).
