June 15,1788 173 very encouraging & amongst other Letters printed the following ex tract is more recent than the papers. Richmond Fridayjune 6th “[A] Symptomatic vote this day in favor of the question was taken; Nothing decisive however has taken place. Mr H 1 made a great effort yesterday & having spun his harangue until a late hour, an answer was prevented; His party were much revived, but I think they are less so this morning. The Governour is become active in favor of the adoption.” Refering you to the papers for other news I have the honor to be, Your most Huml Sert, Sam. A. Otis RC (MHi: Sedgwick Papers). 1 For Patrick Henry’s “harangue” before the Virginia Convention June 5, see Doc. Hist, of Rati/., 9:951-68. Abraham Yates to Abraham G. Lansing Dr Sir New York 15June 1788 Yesterday About Eleven the Governour With a number of the anti Members of Convention set out in A Poughkepse Sloop And in the af ternoon about 6:OClock the Federals under the Firing of Canon from the Battery (a Cerremoney Coll Bowman tells me your men with the Andes would not consent to). I dont feel verry oneasy About Consequences. What steps the feder als Mean to take in reality I cannot Imagin. It would seem from Com mon Conversation that they had some hopes that the Andes would be taken in by their Superior Ability Either to Adopt or to Adjorn because they suppose the andes after so many States Coming in will not dare to Reject it which they Suppose An Adoption with previous Amendments would In its Effect be. I remember Brattain Called out that we were poltroons but it had the Contrary effect to what they intended it should have—And it is possible it may have the same effect here. I have seen the Votes for amendments the Endes [Antis] Carry up, I have had the Copy—made same Addition And sent it up to Yates & Lansing. 1 The Piece is publish’d in two papers 50 Sets are gone to Pochkepse 10 Sets (Of which I send you Six) I Reserved. There you will keep one set and Deal out the others to the friends. I find Some Mistakes that Must be Rectified if they are Represented. The sixty Copies Cost me 30/. I shall send the papers to Morrow (I be lieve With Capt Dove) together with the ordinary Daily papers. Vir ginia the federalist are Confident will Adopt And so they say Will New Hampshire. The Members from this place seems Determined not to
