174 June 15,1788 Adopt (without previous Amendments) tho all the others should. I shall write from time to time If I have any thing Material. Yours Affy., Abrm. Yates Junr RC (NN: Yates Papers). 1 That is, Robert Yates and John Lansing, antifederalist delegates to the New York rati fying convention at Poughkeepsie. Cyrus Griffin to Thomas FitzSimons My dear sir N York June 16th. [1788] I would have written to you before this, but expected some private hand to carry the balance of the money due—with many thanks and acknowlegements for so much friendship and polite attention to us. I have endeavored to get a Philadelphia bank note to enclose by post, but cannot of a less denomination than one hundred dollars— however some acquaintance will shortly be going to your City. I am told that Mr. OConner is in town, but we have not yet seen him. The enclosed letters are recommended to your friendly attention. I am not a litde happy that the important business of the proposed Constitution is going on so well in Virginia. Governor Randolph’s in cantation, ‘tho embarrassing enough with respect to himself, may pro duce some pleasing consequences. 1 New Hampshire will certainly adopt the system. About two thirds of this state are at present in opposition—but the federal members ex pect to convert a great number—and indeed from good authority I am told that Governor Clinton thinks it absolutely necessary that N York should adopt the measure also. Governor Collins and some of the leading men of Rhode Island are advocates for the plan now. From the appearance of things taken altogether we have good reason to conclude that the union will be complete. No Intelligence from Europe. With my best regards to all I am, my dear sir, Your very affect, humble servant, C Griffin RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 An apparent reference to Gov. Edmund Randolph’s lengthy June 6—7 incantation in the Virginia ratifying convention, for which see Doc. Hist, of Ratify 9:971-89, 1016-28. Edward Carrington to Janies Madison My dear Sir, New York June 17. 1788 I had the pleasure to receive your favor of the 6th of June 1 —it gives
