176 June 17,1788 considered; or inform the Committee that they may proceed upon what have been submitted. 1 I am with great regard, yr. Most Ob. Servt., Ed. Carrington RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 Wilson had submitted a memorial to Congress on May 2 asserting the claims of the United Land Companies of the Illinois and Wabash, promising documentation “touch ing the fairness of their purchases and representing their willingness in case they should be well founded to cede to the U S a great proportion thereof.” The memorial was referred on May 5 to Carrington, Abraham Clark, Nathan Dane, William Irvine, and Stephen Mix Mitchell, who reported June 27 that members of the United Land Compa nies should submit to Arthur St. Clair (governor of the western territory) and Richard Butler (superintendent of Indian affairs) proof of their 1773-75 purchases and ensuing treaty with the Indians, and that St. Clair and Butler should report to Congress “a full State of their enquiry.” Congress “postponed” or, in effect, rejected the committee’s re port on July 1. Wilson’s memorial and accompanying petition were returned to him on March 22, 1790. See JCC, 34:133, 270-71; and Carter, Territorial Papers, 2:115-17. Nathan Dane to Theodore Sedgwick New York. June 17. 1788. My Dear Sir I had the pleasure to receive your favor of the 9th instant. I have but one moment to write—and shall improve my first leisure hour to write to you more particularly. You mention that it will be disagreeable to you to attend Congress in the present State of the Government. Sensible of this I have not urged your attendance—but I think by the first of August the organi zation of the New Government will be before Congress, it will be best then to have the States ful[ly] represented in Congress, tho. I con ceive that business will not be attended with any gre[at] debate, or take up much time. My aff[airs] require that I should make a short visit to Massachusetts and return to Congress by the first of August. In my absence the State will be unrepresented unless you can find it con venient to attend Congress. I could therefore wish that you would at tend as early in July as you can 1 —tho, there is no great deal of busi ness to be done, but as unprofitable business may be agitated and brought forward I could wish the State always to be represented in Congress. Your sincere friend, N. Dane [PS.] I have Just seen a letter from a member of the Virginia Conven tion—(Madison) dated the 9th instant but nothing new 2 —the friends of the Constitution calculate on a majority—but do not Speak with certainty.
