180 June 21,1788 & lively Colours 2 —after this & the letters which I have written to the District I did [not] suppose that the Delegates from that Country could be at any loss with respect to my Sen[timents which] have been uniform upon that Subject since my arrival here. Before I left Rich mond I view’d the plan as they do but my appointment has placed me in a Situation from whence I have been enabled to take a more ex tended view of American Politics & as I have frequendy mention’d to you I have discover’d a total change so far as respects the Western Country especially with regard to the Mississipi. The Advocates for the proposed Treaty with Spain now plainly discover that the Cession of the Navigation of that River would not answer the end which formerly they had in View & many of them who were most disposed to sacrifice the Western Country are now by purchase of Lands & appointments to Offices become personally interested in supporting its natural Rights against arbitrary encroachments. I am well assured that a simi lar attempt will never be made even by the eastern States whose Inter est will be most affected by the prosperity of that Country & most sin cerely hope that the impression thereby made upon the Minds of our Western Members in Convention will not induce them to reject the proposed plan of Govt, upon the Adoption of which it is candidly my Opinion that the Happiness, Dignity & Glory of the United States de pend. I have very little prospect of obtaining the Assent of Congress to the present application of Kentucky to be admitted a [member of] the Union. I expect you have seen the Resolution of Congress appointing a Commtee. to draw up an Ordinance for that purpose. The Comtee. have determined that there is no power for that purpose given by Arti cles of Confederation. I presume Kentucky will proceed to establish her independence as tho she had been admitted & will apply or not to the new Govt, as her Interest may dictate. If unanimity prevails in the District perhaps the present disappointment may be productive of good Consequences to that Country. But be this as it will I flatter my self that they would wish to see a Good Govt, established in the United States even though they should be driven out of the Union & there fore conclude that their Delegates will not decide against the pro posed plan a measure which I fear would involve the Atlantic States in Confusion. I am happy to hear of my Brother’s [safe] arrival in Kentucky & that he is well pleased with the Country. I hope he will succeed—am also well pleased to hear that my Sister is married—am not acquainted with Doctor Humphreys but have heard him well spoken of. I wish some men of our female friends were disposed of to their satisfac tion—is there any prospect of it? I expect to set out for Kentucky the last of next month—have some prospect of visiting Boston before that time. I enjoy my usual good Health. Adieu, Yours Sincerely, J Brown
