June 21,1788 181 P.S. In Convention of this State there are two thirds Antifederal but will be govd. by decision of Virga. RC (ViU: Breckinridge Papers in the collections of the Albemarle County Historical So ciety). 1 Only Brown’s June 5 letter to Matthew Walton has been found. 2 Perhaps John Jay’s Address to the People of the State of New-York, on the Subject of the Con stitution (New York: Samuel and John Loudon, 1788), which began circulating in April. See Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 21,175; and Doc. Hist. ofRatif, 17:101-19. South Carolina Delegates to Thomas Pinckney Sir, Copy New York June 21st. 1788. Your Excellency’s letter of the 24th of May came safe to us, together with the Instrument of Ratification of the new Foederal Government, by the Convention of our State, which we presented to Congress. 1 This very important Subject is now under deliberation in the Conven tions of Virginia, New York & New Hampshire. The accounts of the first of these are rather favorable to the adoption of the Constitution, altho it does not appear that any certain Judgment can yet be formed—from the two latter nothing has yet reached us. We anxiously wait the issue of the negociation [wi] th the Creek Indians, & earnestly wish it may have the happy effect of stopping the farther Effusion of Blood & establishing a lasting peace. We inclose your Excellency a Copy of late Resolutions of Congress fixing the mode of crediting the several States for Monies paid to In valid pensioners, & limiting the time for applications to be put on the List. 2 The State of Georgia has transmitted to Congress an Act of its Legis lature offering a Cession of Western territory to the United States under certain conditions therein expressed. 3 This Matter has not yet undergone any Investigation in Congress, & of course the final ratifi cation of the Cession has not been made. The memorial of the District of Kentucky has been considered by Congress, & a Resolution passed in favor of the expediency of concur ring in the proposed Measure: but difficulties having arisen with re spect to the constitutional Mode of doing it, no farther progress is yet made in that business. 4 We have the honor to be, very respectfully, Your Excellency’s Most obedient servts, (signed) John Parker Thos. Tud. Tucker Tr (ScCoAH: Governor’s Messages). 1 South Carolina’s ratification was submitted to Congress June 6. See JCC, 34:208n.
