182 June 21,1788 2 See Charles Thomson to the States, June 14. 3 For this Georgia cession, which was submitted to Congress May 29, see Nicholas Gilman to John Langdon, May 3, note; and Charles Thomson to George Handley, July 17, note 2. 4 For the fate of Kentucky’s application for statehood see Edward Carrington to Thomas Jefferson, November 10, 1787, note 3. John Brown to John Steele Dr Sir, 1 New York, June 22, 1788 I am informed by letter reed, from Mr Allen last post that you are at Richmond & presuming that you came thro Augusta I would thank you for any information you may have it in your power to give me re specting my fathers family & my other relations in Botetourt & Mont gomery. You will excuse this trouble I hope when you are assured I have not reed, a letter from that quarter, since my arrival here. Any in formation you may give concerning my acquaintances in K y will also be very acceptable. We wait with great impatience to hear the determination of Virga, upon the new Constitution. It is supposed that its fate depends upon her Vote. We are told that the Kentucky Members are opposed. I flat ter myself not generally. Those objections which respect the naviga tion of the Mississippi are not well founded. Nothing is to be appre hended in that quarter. I hope it will be adopted, as in my opinion the safety & peace of the United States depend upon it. The Separation of Kentucky will not be granted under the present application. 2 Congress have determined that it is reasonable, and ap pointed a Committee to bring in an act for their admission into the Union. But the Committee are of opinion that there is no power dele gated to Congress for that purpose by the present Confederation. In short it is I fear impracticable to remove the objections suggested by the contracted policy of the Eastern States, who had rather risque the Union than lose what the [y] Call the Ballance of Power. We must act for ourselves—Assure our independance—frame our Constitution, &: apply to the new Govt, for admission into the Union as our interest & Circumstances may dictate. If we are unanimous and prudent, we have nothing to fear. Perhaps a rejection of our present application may be advantageous to the District. Her importance will in a short time enable her to prescribe her own terms of admission. I enjoy my usual state of good health &c &c Tr (KyLoF: Orlando Brown Papers). This Tr was embodied in the text of a letter to Brown of December 31, 1808, from J. Speed, Jr., of Natchez, Mississippi, who had made
