134 June 22,1788 [PS.] As I wrote to you last week on the Subject of our attendance in Congress 4 I need add nothing at present. RC (MHi: Sedgwick Papers). 1 Not identified. 2 In his July 3 reply to this letter, Sedgwick observed: “I am glad to be informed that congress have no determination to admit Kentucky into the Union, because instead of congress possessing a pow'er of authorising the dismemberment of the states, their en tirety seems guaranteed, by the spirit of the confederation.” Dane Papers, MBevHi. 3 Edwards took his seat in Congress on June Q.JCC, 34:208. 4 See Dane to Sedgwick, June 17. Thomas Tudor Tucker to St. George Tucker My dear Brother June 23d. 1788. In Congress. Your Favor of 6th June was deliver’d to me three days ago by the Boys 1 who had a short passage from Norfolk. It gives me great Con cern to find that you had lately been very much indisposed. However they assure me that you are intirely recover’d & that you are now as well as you have been for several Years. May Heaven continue the Blessing of Health to you. I am happy to find by the Boys & by a Letter from Richard that you intend, if Circumstances will permit, to make a Visit to this Place in the course of the next Month. I need not say how very great will be my Satisfaction on that Occasion. I find that all your young folks are in good Health, which is a great pleasure to me. Dr. Johnson had fortunately return’d from Connecticut 2 or 3 days before the young Gentlemen arrived. I have been with them to him, & they are now gone to College to give an Account of their Progress. As their Bedding is at Princeton it will be some days before they will get fixt in Lodgings at College. Your Letter to Mr. Constable I have not yet de liver’d as he was out of Town, Be I did not know of his return on Satur day until late. The Boys, however, have been with him with a Letter they had to deliver. We have a Report this Day that your Convention had taken the Question for Adjournment, which had pass’d in the Negative by a Majority of Eight, & that the final Question on the Con stitution was to have been put on the 21st Inst.—that the Question for Adjournment had been moved by the Opposers of the Constitution. If this Account is true, I presume that there is no Doubt of the Decision in favour of the New System. No Accounts from Bermuda since my last Directed to you at Richmond. My best regards to your dear Children, Miss Rhind & other Friends. I am, My dearest Brother, Yr. most truly affect., Tho. Tud. Tucker
