186 June 23, 1788 the approbation of my own Mind. Wishing that your appointment may be productive of Benefit to the State and Honor & Profit to your self I am Sir, Your most obedt servt. Hu Williamson RC (WHi: Draper Manuscripts, Tennessee Papers). 1 For the appointment of Richard Winn as superintendent of Indian affairs for the southern department, see Charles Thomson to Winn, March 1, 1788. 2 For Martin’s June 20 appointment as “Agent for the Cherokee Nation of Indians,” see Edward Carrington to Edmund Randolph, June 25, note 2. For Martin’s previous experience in the southern department, see these Letters, 22:138n, 286-87, 294. Abraham Yates to Abraham G. Lansing Dr Sir 23 June 1788 This I mean shall lay on my table to put down Matters as they Occur to me. I have with me the News papers I prosecuted upon in expectation to Speak to the Governour and Jones upon that Subject but I did not find an opportunity and therefore Now Return them. 1 Your Brother Sander May prepare in the Mean time a Declaration But before it is made a Record it will want more Consideration than at this Day can be aforded Either by myself or frinds. I met Claxton (the printer) in the street 8 or 10 Days Ago, who was very importuning that I Should withdraw the suit or discharge him from it. I should by no means con sent to withdraw it. I told him that I should by no means consent to withdraw it, and to discharge him was not possible without distroying the suit. He then told me some publication would, he supposed, an swer the end of a verdict (here I suppose he meant a sort of recanta tion) . I told him I supposed not—he said I would in the End find that the Characters of those that published were insignificant and were hardly Worth my Notice. I Answered, that that might be, but they were the ostensible or tools only. If I see him again I shall Continue the Conversation. I tell him that I dont want to injure him no farther than is absolutely necessary to the prosecution of the suit but the real au thors shall come forth tho it should prove his ruin. He Complains that it has proved his ruin in some measure already that he has been Obliged to hire himself to London to work for my work and ten more. The Mortgage of Greveroot I shall be Able to do nothing with here. I beleve I will at the End be oblidged to publish and sell it at vendue for I am determined it shall not remain so. Tho. Witbeek has been with me says he will not be able to pay untill August Next. I Shall be well satisfied if he does then. When I went from home the family were in distress About A Servant I have heard nothing of it since. Has the Affair of Waldren succeeded? if not has he paid? I mean to buy A Wench and if any Suitable one
