190 June 25,1788 But little discovery has yet been made of the turn likely to be given to the business in the Convention of New York. The inclosed papers contain the Speeches of the Chancellor for, and of Mr. Lansing against the constitution. 3 Were an Assembly collected disposed to profit by discussion, I would not wish a better advocate for the adop tion than Mr. Lansing. Present me to my Freinds & believe me to be, with great sincerity Yr. Freind & Hl St., Ed. Carrington RC (DLC: Madison Papers). 1 Not found. 2 See, for example, John Brown to Matthew Walton, June 5, to John Steele, June 22, and the preceding entry. 3 For the speeches of Robert R. Livingston and John Lansing on June 19 and 20, re spectively, see the New York Daily Advertiser, June 24. Edward Carrington to Edmund Randolph Sir, New York June 25. 1788 I have the Honor to inclose to your Excellency the resolutions of Congress passed yesterday in consequence of the application of Vir ginia for an extension of the time for exhibitting her accounts against the United States. 1 I hope the time now given will be fully adequate to the object, especially as the second resolution clearly opens the way to the admission of evidence for a very long time after the accounts are rendered—this however depends greatly upon the commissioner on the part of the State—a man of capacity and an accommodating dis position may remove difficulties which to one of another discription might stand as insuperable obstacles. I own that to me the ordinance appears to be calculated, if properly understood, & acted upon with industry, by the State Commissioners, to procure tolerably equal jus tice to all the States. In order that every possible misunderstanding may be removed in Virginia I do myself the Honor to accompany the resolutions with a report of the Board of Treasury which is pretty full upon Mr. Dun- scombs letter. I beg leave to assure your Excellency that upon the present occa sion a very liberal respect has been paid to the application of Virginia by both Congress & the Treasury Board, as no request of the kind has come from any other State, and the general terms of the Resolutions have been adopted only to take off the inconvenience which might have resulted from the example of a special indulgence. In consequence of your Excellencies intimation upon inclosing to the delegation Colo. Jos. Martins letter, we laid the whole of your com munication before Congress, and it has been resolved that an Agent be appointed for the Cherokee Indians, whereupon Colo. Martin was
