June 25, 1788 191 elected to continue in Office for Six Months from his entering upon duty. 2 I have advised the Secretary at War to forward his communica tions to Colo. Martin, through the hands of your Excellency. I have the Honor to be, with great respect, your Excellencies Most Obt. Servt., Ed. Carrington RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 See Carrington to Randolph, June 9, note; and Charles Thomson to the States, June 24. 2 On May 20 the Virginia delegates had laid before Congress Randolph’s May 9 “in timation” and a March 13 letter from former Indian agent Joseph Martin concerning Cherokee unrest which had been referred to secretary at war Henry Knox to report. Knox heeded Martin’s suggestions and recommended the appointment of a special agent with authority to reassure the Cherokee of Congress’ pacific intentions, to help them resist Creek blandishments to make war, and to attend with them and commis sioners from South Carolina and Georgia a general treaty under the supervision of newly-appointed southern Indian superintendent Richard Winn. Congress debated Knox’s report June 19 and elected Martin “Agent for the Cherokee Nation of Indi ans” the following day. After receiving further letters from Martin, Congress also ap pointed him agent for the Chickasaw Indians on August 20. See JCC, 34:165n.l, 182—83, 241, 247, 432-33; PCC, item 71, 2:593-600; and Charles Thomson io Winn, March 1. Virginia Delegates to James Madison Dr Sir, 1/2 after 12. June 25. 1788 The Inclosed this moment came to hand 1 —contemplating the criti cal State of the subject it concerns in Virginia we thought it best to dis patch it by express, rather than depend on the progress of the post. We have the Honor to be Sir, Yr. Most Obt Servts. Ed. Carrington J. Brown C Griffin RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Addressed: “The Honble. James Madison, in his absence, Governor Randolph in Convention, Richmond.” Docketed: “Saturday 28th Inst, for warded from Alexandria by Your Hum Servt, D Henley.” Written by Carrington and signed by Carrington, Brown, and Griffin. 1 This enclosure, which is in the Madison Papers, DLC, was ajune 21 letter from John Langdon to Alexander Hamilton informing him that the New Hampshire ratifying con vention had just adopted the Constitution by a vote of 57 to 46. On the verso is ajune 24 letter of transmittal from Philip Schuyler to Madison written on Hamilton’s behalf and forwarded by stage. See Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 5:34—35; and Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:171. This day South Carolina delegate Thomas Tudor Tucker also conveyed the same in formation to his brother in Virginia, St. George Tucker: “This moment we have Ac counts that New Hampshire has adopted the Constitution 57 to 46.” Tucker-Coleman Papers, ViW.
