198 June 29,1788 Abraham Yates to Abraham G. Lansing p New York 29 June 1788 I R[eceive]d yours of 22 June Instant. The Letter I Wrote and Which before now you have Rd. In Respect to Mess. Jannet 1 Will be All that is necessary to Say upon that Subject: nor do I belive that the gentlemen of the Convention Will Request by [my] Attention At Poughkepse, nor do I belive that the Attention of the Albany federal ist Will Do them Any service. From every Information I git it appears that the Andes are neither to be frowned or flattered out of their op[p]osi[tio]n. The principle Object the Other side have in View is to get an Adjournment Which I Confess is the only Apprehension I have For if they Can Obtain an Adjournment the Members During That Time will be Seperated and open to their Management both in the News papers—and the State the Whole Time in Convulsions. It appears to me the Fire Edge in this place is Wearing off very fast. It appears to one that the more serious Citizens get tyred of the furie and Noise. The Speeches of Lansing And Smith 2 meet in the Coffe House and Elsewhere With Almost general Approbation the Ringing of the Bells become reprobated as uselessly irritating And Improper in the Situation We are in. . Should Verginia Adopt and Wether they Will or not is problematical then th [ere wi]ll be New exclamations: Can our State Stand Alone? Is our state Wiser then all the Rest &a? If that storm is wethered I sup pose they will see that it will be in vain to throw any farther Obstacles in the Way and they Will soon finish. I belive my staying here May be of some Service. Last year there Was A Loan Made in Holland of 1,000,000 guilders. The Reason then given Was that Our Bills, to pay the Interest in Europe had been protested. Now it is proposed to take up one Million more Because upon A Representation of the Board of Treasury to Mr Jeffries [Jefferson] that With the Change of Government We Will not be able to Make any Re mittances till after the Year 1790. 3 This Measure has been taken up twice And I have in both Instances opposed it (and Which they have not been Able to git Nine States)— Upon this Principle—That it is Impolitick At all events to take up Mony in time of profound Peace, And the More as there Will be no Interest Due untill June 1789—And What Will the World think When they Meet With the Observations that have been made for Several Years that our Credit Was Lost in Europe Because of the Defects in the confederation—if We now go and Sponge upon the Existing Confed eration to set the Wheels of the New government Agoing, And then to grees them. I am well I hope the family is so I Remain Yours Affecy. Abm. Yates Junr
