July 2,1788 201 have Indevered Ever since I have been hear, to find his mind in Re gard to the constitution, but it hath been out of power, but I am Led to beleave he would have been as well pleased, had the constitution been Rejected as he now is, I have not had the pleasur to see Genl. Lamb only when he has been Ingaged in buyseness, and it would have been Intruding to have Intrupted at that time, therefor Intend an In- tervew with him when he is at Leishur. The Govr. and our friend Melangton Smith are now at Pokepesey at the convention, they have very hard work but I am Led to beleave that they will adobt the Consti tution with previous amendments and if they do, it will opperate as tho it had been Regected, the Express arived this day with the adob- tion of Virginea. 1 I have Nothing further to Inform at present, when aney thing turns up shall take the pleasur to comunicate Immediately. With gratude and Esteem I Remain, your Excellenceys most obdient Humble Servant, Jona. J. Hazard P.S. Pray give my best complements to your good famely and all frends Espeshaly my frend Holmes. J H RC (NjMoHP: Lloyd W. Smith Collection). 1 Although the June 25 ratification and June 28 covering letter from Edmund Ran dolph, president of the Virginia ratifying convention, had apparently arrived this day, they were not entered in Charles Thomson’s despatch book or read in Congress until July 14. See JCC, 34:323n, PCC, item 185, 4:36; and Doc. Hist. ofRatif., 10:1542-63. New Hampshire Delegates to John Langdon New York July 2d 1788 We were honored last evening with the letter of the 25th of June, enclosing the ratification of the new federal Constitution by the State of New-Hampshire, and had the honor of laying it before Congress this day, upon which a Committee was appointed to report to Con gress the necessary arrangements in order to carry into effect the new System of Government according to the recommendation of the gen eral Convention of the States. 1 We have the additional pleasure to inform you that by authentic let ters received this day from Virginia, it appears that their Convention, on the 25th Ultimo, determined the Question in favor of the new gov ernment by a Majority of ten members. With the highest Respect, we have the honor to be, Sir, Your Excel- lencys Most Obedient and Most Humble servants, Paine Wingate N. Gilman.
