July 7,1788 211 2 This recommendation was forwarded this day by Thomson with the following letter to the governor of Virginia, Edmund Randolph. “In obedience to the Orders of the United States in Congress Assembled, I have the honor to transmit to Your Excellency herewith enclosed the proceedings of Congress relative to the Independency of the dis trict of Kentucky which You will be pleased to communicate to Your Legislature, that, agreeably to the recommendation contained in the last Act of Congress, they may so alter their Acts relative to Kentucky as to render them conformable to the provisions made in the new Constitution.” Continental Congress Papers, Vi. 3 Thomson dispatched this letter under cover of the following July 4 note to “Brigadier Genl Harmar, on the Ohio, Fort Harmar.” “The enclosed contains despatches from Congress to the people of Kentucky, as they are important & should go in the safest & speediest manner I have put them under cover to you & have to request your care in forwarding them.” This letter, which is in the Harmar Papers, MiU-C, is endorsed: “received July 16th—answered July 23. 1788.” And as a further precaution, Thomson sent a second copy of McDowell’s letter with the following letter to Harmar on July 9. “The enclosed containing a duplicate of the dispatches for the Inhabitants of Kentucky, I take the liberty to address to you—And as they are in their nature important I have to request in case those I sent You on the 4th of this month are not already forwarded, to send on this by a trusty person as speedily as possible. In case the other is gone it may not be amiss to send on this also by some safe conveyance for fear of Accidents.” Ibid. William Bingham to Benjamin Rush Dear Sir, New York July 7th 1788 I received your Letter of the 3d Inst & Shall forward the enclosed Letter for Mr Adams agreable to your Wishes. 1 The Point in favor of which you are Solicitous of engaging his Interest, will be determined, long before it will reach him, & I hope to your Satisfaction. A proper Attention to the Massachusets Delegation in Congress, has not been wanting on this Occasion. I agree with you in opinion that Prospects are very flattering—but to realize them we must not relax a Moment in our Exertions. The proper organization of the Government, the Institution of the neces sary Departments, the Arrangement of the Offices &c will require much Time & Consideration & will greatly influence the future Oper ation of the System. Your federal Procession will be a Triumph; Any of the other States, but an Ovation. Yours affectionably, Wm Bingham RC (PHi: Alexander Biddle Collection). 1 Although Rush’s letter to Bingham has not been found, his enclosed July 2 letter to John Adams is in Rush, Letters (Butterfield), 1:468-69.
