212 July 7,1788 Jonathan Elmer to Joseph Howell Sir City Hall 7th. July 1788. Inclosed are the vouchers of the pay & cloathing due to Ephraim Dayton late a seijant in Capt Hugg’s company of Artillery. His indi gence, infirm state of health & distance from the office have prevented his applying for a final setdement of his account before this time. The state of New Jersey has allowed him the depreciation on the pay he actually recieved. By Capt Hubbels certificate there appears to be thirteen months in arrear 8c a deficiency in Cloathing. Please to settle the account as soon as convenient 8c favor me with the certifi cate of the balance due to him, which I shall take due care to have safely delivered. 1 I am Sir yours &c. Jonathan Elmer Tr (DNA: RG 93, 138:38). Addressed: “Commissioner of Army Accts.” 1 In his reply to Elmer of this date, Howell explained: “Seijant Ephraim Dayton the person alluded to in your letter of this date, is included in the account of the 2d Regi ment of artilery and a certificate for the balance of cloathing due him, has been issued by this office to Capt. William Stevens agent to the said Regiment amounting to 13 88/90 Dollars. “Altho’ Capt Hubbell certifies that Dayton has only been paid in the Regiment to the 1st of March 1780, yet I beg leave to observe that the State of Newjersey has settled with their Troops & allowed their depreciation on pay to extend to 1st August 1780. “The State of New York having considered this regiment as a part of the Quota of their state have generally (if not entirely) settled with the individuals & issued their cer tificates for pay from the 1st of August 1780 to the Istjany, 1782. If seijant Dayton has not recieved his pay from the 1st of August 1780, to the day of his discharge I am of opinion he is entitled to it from the state of New York. “The act of Congress of the 2d of November 1785 forecloses the claim in this office and no releif can be granted him by the commissioner of accounts unless by the special authority of Congress.” Ibid., pp. 36-37. There is no mention of Ephraim Dayton in the journals or papers of the Continental Congress. Samuel A. Otis to John Adams Dear Sir New Yorkjuly 7th 1788 Permit me tho late to congratulate you 8c your amiable Lady upon a return to your native Country, 1 The pleasure 8c delights of which you must relish peculiarly after so long absence. I have never been much of a traveler, but I can hardly conceive of a Country under all circum stances more eligible; And the prospect of public felicity seems the brighter from the accesion of ten states to a System which so far as I comprehend it, promises equal liberty, security of property, 8c deci sion. I do not indeed flatter myself with the return of the Golden Age. If any of our farmers have heard of Arcadia they may not think of ram-
