July 7, 1788 215 We are Sincerely, Sir, Your obed hble servs, Wm Bingham James R. Reid RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Written by Bingham and signed by Bingham and Reid. Ad dressed: “John Nicholson Esqr, Comptroller of the State of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.” 1 Nicholson’s letter has not been found, but one of this date on the same topic to the President of the Pennsylvania Council, Benjamin Franklin, is in Pa. Archives 1st ser 11:323-25. 2 See Edward Carrington to Edmund Randolph, June 9, note; and Charles Thomson to the States, June 24. John Swann to James Iredell Dear Sir New York. July. 7t. 1788. I received your favor some time since & shou’d have acknowledged it before this, but was at that time in the height of the small pox. You will give me leave now, sir to thank you for your polite engagement in the business on which I wrote you. From the slow & irregular conveyance which sometimes attends Let ters you may possibly hear of the decision of this State on the New Constitution before this reaches you: however as there are Chances against I shall take the liberty to mention their extreme indecision on that Subject, an indecision the more astonishing since they are ap prised of it s ratification by ten States. The Constitution is ably sup ported by Gentlemen of great literary Merit, but the Opposition who are by no means contemptible, seem determined to dispute the ground intch by intch. What they propose to themselves from their in flexibility, is hard to discover; since it is certain, if we are to judge from their situation & the disposition of a great part of the State, that they will find their concurrence sooner or later not only expedient but un avoidable. However shou’d their determination be contrary to the general Sense of the Union, I hope it will not be made an Example to influence the deliberations & Conduct of our State. We are, Sir, in the most painful Suspense for Carolina. I confess I shou’d be most sensi bly mortified were Carolina to reject the Constitution however un availing her dissent might be with regard to it’s Establishment and doubly so when I reflect that in such a determination they wou’d have the Countenance of Rhode Island alone, who in all probability may veer about when a certain State-System of business is gone thro’ with. The Arrangements for putting the new Government into Action have been committed for some days & in all probability will be re ported on this Week.
