218 July 7,1788 from any other State. I asked him what did Rh Island grow & export, he answered nothing except a little Cheese & Pot Ash. You see how reasonable a Plan his would be; Maryland, Virga & So. Caro, would be delighted with it. The Politics of N. York are not so villanous in their Face—but not much more honourable considering them as part of the same Nation. They during the War agreed to give Congress the Power of collecting the 5 Per Ct Impost, as soon as they got Possession of this City they re fused to let Congress have such Power because the [y] find the selfish advantage of imposing a duty on Imports for their own Use. Half the goods consumed in Connecticut or rather Xths of them, half the goods consumed in New Jersey or %rds of them, all the goods con sumed in Vermont and no small Part of those consumed in the West ern Part of Massachusets are bought in New York and pay an Impost Duty of 5 Per Ct for the Use of this State. I say nothing of what the good Citizens of N Carolina import from N York whence they pay Part of the New Yorkers Taxes. Tis easy to discover why New York does not like the new Govt. But this very Argument must be a very good one with the Citizens of N Carolina why they should like that Govt. Conse quently it is to be hoped that they will neither copy N York nor Rh. Is land. I am with great Regard Dr Sir, Your obed servt, Hu Williamson RC (NcD: Iredell Manuscripts). Nicholas Gilman to John Langdon Sir New York July 8th 1788 I am honored with your Excellencys obliging favor of the 28th June and beg you to accept my Sincere acknowledgements for the particu lars of the Celebration of the new Constitution. I most heartily rejoice with you and all lovers of peace & concord, on this most glorious and unparalled occurrence in the course of human affairs. The accession of New-Hampshire ensured the System—that of Virginia will I think Ensure tranquility though it has been confidently ascerted of the lat ter, that their adopting the Constitution has had no effect on the Con vention at Poughkeepsie. I am not much inclined, however, to believe the report. I think there is a gleam of hope that, from a principle of fear, the anties will come about. Accounts last evening give some Countenance to this opinion; though the case is still very doubtful. I am informed that they do not expect to close this week. The time for the meeting of the new Congress is not yet assigned—
