July 17,1788 229 [PS.] A report of a committee is before the House to put a New Gov ernment in motion which will be finished in a day or two. RC (CtHi: Oliver Wolcott, Jr. Papers). 1 Wadsworth also wrote brief letters this day to his wife, Mehitable, and to his daugh ters, Catherine and Harriet, all of which are in the Wadsworth Papers, CtHi. He had lit tle news to report except that “Mrs Burr has lately been delivered of a Child Still born & has been very ill—she is now better.” James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear friend N. York July 16. [17] 88 The inclosed papers will give you the latest intelligence from Poughkepsie. It seems by no means certain what the result there will be. Some of the most sanguine calculate on a ratification. The best in formed apprehend some clog that will amount to a condition. The question is made peculiarly interesting in this place, by its connexion with the question relative to the place to be recommended for the meeting of the first Congress under the new Government. 13 States are at present represented. A plan for setting this new Ma chine in motion has been reported some days, 1 but will not be hur ried to a conclusion. Having been but a little time here, I am not yet fully in the politics of Congress. I had on the road several returns of a bilious lax which made my journey more tedious & less agreeable than it would otherwise have been. 2 At present I am pretty well again. Hop ing this will find you & yours more compleady so, I remain, Yr. Affete friend, Js. Madison Jr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:187-88. 1 See John Brown to John Smith, July 9, note 4. 2 Madison had just returned to Congress from attending the Virginia ratifying con vention. Although he had set out from Richmond on July 1, ill health caused him to tarry at Mt. Vernon July 4-7 before taking the stage from Alexandria. He took his seat on July 17 and remained in Congress until the second week in December. See ICC, 34:329, 338; Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:185, 373-75; and Washington, Diaries (lack- son and Twohig), 5:357. J Nicholas Gilman to John Langdon Sir . . (Private) New York July 17th 1788 This is merely to accompany the papers of the day, by which you will discover the temper of the Poughkeepsie Convention. They are still in session and the heart of their Pharoah is still unrelenting. It is impos-
