230 July 17, 1788 sible to foresee the issue of this business. Their present situation is critical. The people of this City are highly federal—they will adhere to the Union at all events and are making preparation for an expensive procession to take place on Wednesday next. With the highest Respect, I have the Honor to be, Sir, Your Excel- lencys Most Obedient and Most Humble Servant, N. Gilman RC (Capt.J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). Samuel A. Otis to George Thatcher Dear Sir New York 17July 1788.... and first I inform you That we have had Thirteen States free- quently upon the floor & have been very industrious—What have you been about? Look at the Journal—One thing seems to be agreed, that new government is to take place about mid winter—Next week per haps the Time will be agreed upon. 1 The place will be a bone of Con tention, Southern people are opposed to N Y, & I think the Yorkers hang back in such manner am rather of opinion it will not be here. For my own part I am in present sentiment for N York but we are all in suspense for the doings of Convention. Probably the question will this day be taken therein. I am of opinion it will not be a favorable decision. Clinton is popular has a majority at command & is very violent. They may possibly adjourn which is the best expectation I form. The York ers are determined however to have their frolic, & I dont know but we are in danger of runing into excess in regard to processions. Perhaps my gravity & aversion to parade may have induced this opinion. It is an implied triumph over minority which always irritates. I think the movements of the new Govt should be mild, discreat & attended with great circumspection. Enclosed is Greenleafs 2 which details prety fairly, To which refering you I am, With regard & esteem, Your Hume St, Sam. A. Otes [Otis] MS not found; reprinted from Historical Magazine, 2d ser. 6 (December 1869): 349. 1 For the protracted debate over the establishment of the new government, see John Brown to John Smith, July 9, note 4. 2 Apparently an issue of Thomas Greenleaf s New York Journal. Charles Thomson to George Handley Sir, July 17. 1788 I have the honor to transmit to your Exy herewith enclosed an Act
