232 July 17, 1788 from your Bror. dated June 26, on the day preceding the night on which he was made prisoner by the insurgents of that country. 1 He was then very well with his family, and tho he mentioned that he had been threatened, he said he was under no apprehensions of mischief from those villains. He supposed that keeping Franklin confined would be his security. I am exceeding sorry that he found the misfor tune of being disappointed. You will see by the enclosed newspaper the measures that have been taken & the intelligence that has been received from your Bror. I do not think that you need be anxious for his safety for I believe they will not venture to use any further violence to his person. I should have informed you sooner of his situation but Major Hodgdon said he had written to Capt. Williams. I thot that the letter, said in the newspaper from your brother, would be an allevia tion to your concern & for that reason have written to you at this time. Should I receive any material intelligence respecting him further I will give you information as soon as may be. I hope soon to have it in my power to give you agreeable intelligence upon that head. We have now a full representation in Congress from all the States. Have not yet made the arrangements for the new Congress. The first Wednesday in Dec. is proposed for chusing electors of President, & the last Wednesday of that month for the choice of President. The be ginning of Feb. it is probable Congress will meet & it is yet mere con jecture that Philadelphia will be the place. A few days will now deter mine all those points. We have waited this week to know the determination of New York convention. Our intelligence last evening was not favorable from Poughkeepsie. We expect hourly to hear the final result. There is too much I suspect of personal animosity among some members of the convention which will be a detriment to that condesention which at this time is very necessary. This city will be ex ceedingly enraged against the antifederal party if they should reject the constitution as it will necesitate the removal of Congress which they much fear. Nineteen of twenty are said to be federal in the city. Next Wednesday is the day appointed for the procession in New York celebrating the new constitution which is to be with extraordinary pomp. I believe the late principle transactions of Congress will be in your newspapers & needless here to mention. I hope we shall adjourn after a while if not I think I shall return by the beginning of Sept, when I hope I shall have the pleasure of seeing you and all our friends well. I am Dr. Sir your affectionate friend & brother. Paine Wingate. Tr (DLC: Burnett Collection). Copied for Edmund C. Burnett “from the original fur nished by the courtesy of Mr. C. E. L. Wingate of Winchester, Massachusetts.” Wingate, Life and Letters, 1:235-36. 1 Timothy Pickering, a New Englander, had in 1786 turned his attentions to the devel opment of lands he had obtained in northern Pennsylvania, the success of which de-
