July 18,1788 233 pended in part upon the settlement of the conflict that had long wracked the Wyoming Valley. Soon after Pennsylvania created Luzerne County in September 1786, a measure designed to help pacify the region, Pickering was appointed to a number of offices in volved in its organization, and for a time appeared to inspire the confidence of both sides in the conflict. But he was increasingly viewed by Connecticut partisans as a cap tive of Pennsylvania interests and on June 26 a number of dissidents abducted him in a desperate effort to alter events and bring pressure on the state. For an account of Pick ering’s work in Luzerne County and his June 26-July 15 abduction, see Gerard H. Garfield, Timothy Pickering and the American Revolution (Pittsburgh: University of Pitts burgh Press, 1980), pp. 90—115; and Susquehannah Co. Papers, 9:xli—xlv. Wingate was married to Pickering’s sister Eunice. William Bingham to Benjamin Rush Dear Sir, NewYorkJuly 18th 1788 I received the Letter you inclosed concerning the Effects of the fed eral Procession 1 on the various Descriptions of Persons that partici pated in the future Enjoyment, & was much pleased with the Perusal. I have no occasion for a Stimulus to increase the force of my Exer tion to fix the Seat of federal Government at Philadelphia. I have de voted myself Solely to that Object for a considerable Time past, & have the most flattering Prospect of Succeeding—but it is far from being certain, for the Competition is very great, & there are as many Cities contending for this Advantage, as there were for the Honor of Homers Birth. Our City has So great a start of the others, that many are desirous of depriving us of this Benefit, from the Operation of low minded Jealousy & Envy. You will please to keep this Letter secret, as a Strong Expectation of success would rather tend to defeat our Views. I am with much Regard, Dear sir, Your obed hble ser, Wm Bingham RC (PHi: Alexander Biddle Collection). 1 See Rush, Letters (Butterfield), 1:470-77. Charles Thomson to Thomas Hutchins Sir July 18 1788 I have the honor to transmit to you herewith enclosed a few copies of the Supplement to the land Ordinance, 1 an Act empowering you to appoint Surveyors & fixing the sum to be allowed to the Surveyor, 2 also a Motion which is referred to you to take Order. 3 I am sr yr obedt. humble Servt
