July 20,1788 237 resolutions in such manner, as may put it past doubt, and at the same Time fully express their sense & wishes respecting the alterations or amendments to be made in the Constitution. I will say no more on this subject. You who are daily conversant in the business no doubt ex perience & see many Difficulties that do not occur to me in fixing so great a Question. You may be assured that since the Adoption by New Hampshire & Virginia a great Change in Sentiment has taken Place with those who were before opposed to the Constitution & I beleive there are but few if any in this City who do not think it expedient for this State under the present Circumstances to become part of the Union & as far as I am in formed this Sentiment is general in the southern part of the state. We hear that Mr Jones is for adopting the Constitution, 3 by the In formation I have had from Queens County his Conduct in that partic ular will be approved of by his Constituents, it is here, by those who have been opposed as well as those who have approved. If your Convention should finally ratifify [ratify] the Constitution, it will be a very happy Circumstance that the Majority of the Convention before the adoption by so many States were opposed to the adoption. I say a happy Circumstance because it will be a means of quieting the Minds of all & settling the state down in Peace & putting an End to Parties & Dissentions which are so distinctive to the Peace, wellfare & Happiness of a People. Great preparations are making here for Re joicing on Wednesday next, as no doubt you have heard; and however premature this Business may be I am Happy in having Reason to Beleive that the Business of the Day will be conducted with prudence with out insulting any one by word or Action or doing any thing by which the feelings of any one at Home or abroad may be hurt. I have wrote in a great hurry. You will therefore excuse Incorrectness & not expose it, as I have not time to look over it. You know I have no intention to dictate or influence. May that Being who ruleth over all the Kingdoms of the Earth so direct your Counsels in determining this great national Question that this State may long enjoy Peace & Happiness. With Regards to all friends I am, sir, Your most Obedt & very Humb Servt., Ezra L Hommedieu RC (NHi: Miscellaneous Manuscripts, John Smith of Mastic). Addressed: “Col. Smith.” 1 John Smith (1752—1816) of Mastic, Long Island, a New York assemblyman, was a Suffolk County delegate to the New York ratifying convention. Bio. Dir. Cong. 2 That is, Melancton Smith. 3 That is, Samuel Jones, a New York assemblyman from Queen’s County, and antifed eralist delegate to the New York ratifying convention. Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 5:90, 178, 190-91, 246n.l.
