July 21, 1788 241 Charles Thomson to Edmund Randolph S> r > Office of Secretary of Congress, July 21st. 1788. I have the honor to transmit to Your Excellency herewith enclosed An Act passed the 17th by the United States in Congress Assembled, touching locations and surveys for the Virginia troops upon continen tal establishment, between the Scioto & Miami Rivers in the north west side of the Ohio, and requesting the Executive of Virginia to in form them whether there has been any deficiency of good lands re served by the laws of that State on the south east side of the Ohio for the said troops &C. 1 With great respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellencys Most Obedient & Most humble servant, Cha Thomson RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Addressed: “His Excellency The Govemour of Virginia.” 1 For the enclosed resolve, see JCC, 34:334; and Thomson to Thomas Hutchins lulv 18, note 3. 7 Paine Wingate to Hannah Wingate My dear friend New York July 21.1788. I have received your pretty 8c short letter of the 2d Instant, and dont know when such a little triffling matter has given me more pleasure. I am very glad to find that you was then at Polly’s, who I know is very fond of your non sence, as well as somebody else. I suppose that the conciseness of your letter is a hint for me, 8c shall endeavor to con form to your example in making mine as short. I have no objection to this, only I am very frugal always in improving all my paper. It gives me much satisfaction to hear that you are pretty well. I hope you will re main so until I shall return. For it is such a rarity as I never yet saw. I cannot but admire the good spirits which you have discovered in all your letters, and wish that you could communicate some to my wife who seems to be rather disconsolate. You may depend upon it that it is my present expectation 8c purpose to set out for home the beginning of Sept, or perhaps sooner. I shall write to my wife before that time 8c let her know when to expect me. I hope it will be as agreeable to her, as it will be to you, tho I do not wish that it might keep either of you awake, unless it is at church where I suppose you both will need it these long hot days. I know that you are very much of a libertine lady & dont wonder that you are tickled up with the new Constitution. I suppose that you fancy it will make you young again, 8c that it will have
