242 July 21,1788 as good an effect upon you as innoculation. For my part I am tired with reading the pompous accounts of the processions in every part of the country, and have been expecting to see the account of the Stratham procession & toasts to add to the catalogue. I should now write as much more if I had not promised to be short. With love to the Dr. & Hanny & all friends, I am with great complai sance yours &c P Wingate P.S. As I have finished the foregoing short letter according to my promise, I hope that you will consider it as no violation of my word if I should add by way of postscript as much more. When I looked over your letter after I had finished mine, I found there were some things which I had passed unnoticed. You speak of having much work to do; that I am exceeding glad to hear, & would never have you omit it for the sake of writing or reading letters in which I am concerned. As to the horse block, I never know how much to believe of what you say. But if you should ever happen to be at my house I hope I shall not be wanting in proper attention to assist you in getting away again. If Amos has accommodated you with a block I suppose it was that he might not have the trouble of lifting you on to the horse himself. The footstool I can tell nothing about for I have almost forgot whether a lady has a foot. The fashion here is to have very small feet if any, the Ladies appear to be chiefly rumps and heads. I conclude you have re ceived your letter which you expected from me, but when it was wrote or what was in it I cannot recollect. This with all my letters to you I ex pect my wife will see, & as I believe I shall not write to her by this Post, she will consider this as a token of that constant affection and remem brance I have of her. I wish that she & you may enjoy days of ease and nights of pleasure & that I shall soon have an agreeable interview with all my friends. Next Wednesday is the day appointed for a pompous procession in this City 8c I hope it will be the last I shall see or hear of this year. The house flies are a perfect plague here, and I shall be dis posed to leave this city if it was only to be out of the way of them. I hope you will send on to head quarters your muster roll soon which you was about when Mr. Adams wrote to me. I shall enclose to you some poetical lines for diversion 8c some visiting cards for Sally, My love to my wife 8c children and compliments to every body else. The Episcopal Bishop last Sunday at St. Pauls Church manufactured two priests according to the american fashion. I have room to say no more adieu. PW to Miss Hannah RC (InU-Li: Lafayette Collection).
