July 22,1788 243 James Madison to Edmund Randolph My Dear Sir New York July 22. [1788] The inclosed papers will give you a view of the business in the Con vention at Poughkepsie. It is not as yet certain that the ratification will take any final shape that can make New York immediately a member of the new Union. The opponents can not come to that point without yielding a compleat victory to the federalists, which must be a severe sacrifice of their pride. It is supposed too that some of them, would not be displeased at seeing a bar to the pretensions of this City to the first meeting of the New Government. On the other side, the zeal for an unconditional ratification is not a little increased by contrary wishes. There have been no late arrivals from Europe: nor any news from any other Quarter. Don’t omit sending me the papers containing the series of letters announced in a late one. 1 Yr. Affecte friend, Js. Madison Jr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:191. 1 For the letters of the “Republican” announced in the July 9 Virginia Independent Chronicle, see ibid., pp. 192n, 231; and Doc. Hist. ofRatif., 10:1710, 1754-56. Thomas Tudor Tucker to St. George Tucker My dear St. George New York July 22d. 1788. In Congress. I thank you for your several kind Favors to the 30th June, the partic ular Dates of which are not at present before me. Your Poem I re ceiv’d & perused with pleasure. 1 I observe that there are several Alter ations made since I formerly read it, which appear to me to be for the better. I am sorry to agree with you that those Sentiments of equal Lib erty which make the Ground work as well as Spirit of your whole poem, are getting so much out of Fashion, & at this very early Period after so heavy a Sacrifice to Principle which we are but too much in clined to abandon. The Adoption of the Constitution by your State has given it a firm Foundation, & will be the means of bringing in the State of New York which otherwise wou’d certainly have rejected it; and I suppose N. Carolina woud have follow’d the Example. The en closed paper will shew you the present State of the Business in Pough keepsie. A temporary Adoption, to be conditionally perpetual seems to be most likely to take place. In what Light this may be consider’d, I know not. Some will deem it a valid Adoption; others will probably
