July 26,1788 249 us to inform your Excellency that it has not been Ratified by Congress. The Ratification has been delayed on account of some objectionable points, upon which Mr. Jefferson is now charged with negotiations. 2 The business is, however, in a delicate situation, and it is the wish of Congress that the affair of Capt. Ferrier may be so treated as to pro duce no discussion that can possibly be avoided. We have the Honor to be, with the greatest respect, Your Excellen cies Mo. Obt. Servts., Js. Madison Jr. Ed. Carrington Cyrus Griffin RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Carrington and signed by Carring ton, Griffin, and Madison. 1 The “paper" given to the Virginia delegates by the comte de Moustier was his protest against Virginia’s conduct in the case of Capt. Joseph Marie Anne Ferrier, who had been seized by the French consul in Virginia for maritime crimes but was released by a local sheriff under Virginia law. It is in the Continental Congress Papers, Vi, and has been printed with a condensed translation in Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:199-201. For the context of the adoption of the “late Resolution of Congress” June 13, see Hugh Williamson to Samuel Johnston, May 30, note 2. Governor Randolph’s Au gust 2 reply and other documents pertaining to the case are in ibid., 11:192-94, 216-18. 2 For Thomas Jefferson’s involvement in this case and its significance to the negotia tion of the Franco-American consular convention signed in Paris in November 1788, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 12:228, 249, 251, 14:82-84, 86. Edward Carrington to William Short My dear Sir, New York July 26. 1788 Since the Sailing of the French Packet in June no opportunity of writing has offered except by way of the British Post Office, which, as well on account of the expence, as hazards, I thought an ineligible mode. This goes by way of Holland, and although a private hand is the bearer so far, yet it is probable it may be forwarded by post to Paris. I shall therefore make it as little bulky as possible, and will beg the favor of you to make my apology to Mr. Jefferson, to whom Mr. Madison is writing pretty fully by the same conveyance; this will, at the same time, incur expence enough, and supercede the necessity of my writing to him. By the June Packet I did myself the pleasure to inform Mr. Jefferson of the adoption of the Constitution in South Carolina as the eighth State 1 —Since that N. Hampshire, & Virginia have also acceded by Small Majorities, the Minorities however have acquiesced. Mr. Madi son will inclose papers per whence you will be informed of the charac ters for and against in Virginia. New York & North Carolina are now in session—the latter convened so lately that we have received no intelli-
