256 July 27, 1788 James Madison to James Madison, Sr. Hond Sir, New York July 27. 1788. Since my arrival here I have been perfectly free from my bilious symptoms, and enjoy at present my usual share of health. John contin ues to be sick and is in very low plight indeed. Altho’ he walks about, I think his thorough recovery extremely doubtful. He was so ill in Phi- lada and my stay there so short that these circumstances added to my own indisposition at the time, prevented my taking any steps with re gard to Anthony. 1 Perhaps some other opportunity may offer for mak ing the trial you suggested. I think however there is little ground to count on much success in the case. After a very tedious discussion, the Constitution has been ratified by the Convention of this State. It was carried by a majority of 5, the ays being 30, the noes 25. Amendments in general similar to those of Virga, are recommended, and a confidence expressed in the act of adoption that they will be incorporated in the Constitution. The Con vention of N. Carolina has not been heard from since it met. Congress are at present making the arrangements for putting the Government into operation. Remember me affectly to the family and be assured that I remain with every filial sentiment, Your Obedt son & servt., Js. Madison Jr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:208. 1 For Madison’s slave John and the family’s runaway slave Anthony, see ibid., 9:155n.l, 10:118, U:208n.l. North Carolina Delegates to Samuel Johnston Dear Sir New York 27th July 1788. By Express last Night from Pokepsie we learn that on Friday 25th a Motion was made for adopting the new Constitution as recommended by the general Convention on Septr. last, this Motion was carryed by a majority of Five. A previous Question had been taken for adopting the Constitution for a limited Time &c. [This] was lost by a majority of four. The Papers [we] shall forward may contain more particulars. The Inhabitants of this City since the arrival of the above Intelligence have hardly been moderate in their Expressions of Joy. The State of New York had so many Arguments of private Interest that seemed to tempt her to adhere to the old form of Government that we confess the Act mentioned was rather unexpected at so early a Period. This Event is of such Importance that we conceive ourselves bound to give
