258 July 28,1788 William Irvine to William Alexander Dear Major 1 New York July 28th. 1788 I confess I do not very well understand the inclosed Ordinance, 2 if you do it is no matter; how, or whether you will like the arrangement in this matter I can not say, but this much I will assure you that we did for the best all matters considered, I mean now more particularly the appointments. My letter to James contains facts, 3 and every thing I ever said on the subject except the conversation with yourself, I have left my letter open that you may peruse it and afterwards forward to him together with what ever you may Judge proper to say to him on the subject. I hope you will take him by the hand, or rather under your wing, in this business—what I have said to him will shew you my Ideas I need not th[e]refore now repeat them, indeed I have not time at this Post. Mr. Hutchins 4 will set out in a few days for the West, he says he will be detained ten or twelve days in Philadelphia—he does not speak with certainty but thinks it probable he will take Carlisle in his way. York town is his usual rout. I will however ask him to drop you a line before he leaves Philadelphia, in case he should not go through Carlisle. There is nothing new here, except that N york has at last adopted the new Government, by a Majority of five only, so great was the ma jority against it, til the last moment, that it is evident—no other con sideration but a fear of being left out of the Union induced them to accede—they were not convinced, of the propriety, but the necessity. Congress have granted the aid of the Union to Penna, on her requisi tion, to quell the Wyoming Insurgents, so far as 100 Men for two weeks will do it. 5 These are Recruits on the march to the Ohio. I am Dear Major, Your friend & Servt., Wm. Irvine NB. I beleive it will be best to send James’s packet by a private hand, if it goes by Post it will go on to Fort Pitt where it might lie for months— unless the Post Rider will undertake to leave it at some particular place that you may desire. Hannas town will be best unless carried di- recdy to him. RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). Addressed: “Major Alexander.” 1 Alexander was formerly a lieutenant and captain in Irvine’s Sixth Pennsylvania Bat talion, and major of the Third Pennsylvania Regiment. See Heitman, Historical Register, p. 60; and John B. B. Trussell, The Pennsylvania Line: Regimental Organization and Opera tions, 1776-1783 (Harrisburg: Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission, 1977), pp. 56, 58, 93—94. 2 Undoubtedly the “supplement” to the western land ordinance adopted by Congress July 9. See JCC, 34:305-10. 3 See the following entry. 4 That is, Thomas Hutchins, the geographer of the United States. 5 See Pennsylvania Delegates to Benjamin Franklin, this date.
