266 August 1,1788 Certainly the government ought not to be permanently established in any great town, nor in any place accessible by water. I probably shall not continue in this place more than one month. Please to make my Compts. acceptable to the two Mrs. Lincolns. I will still continue to address you in the language of friendship which is the language of my heart, you will therefore permit me to as sure you, that my feelings towards you are presicely the same they were before the people in justice to your merits placed you in an ex alted station. 2 The feelings of my heart were then towards you the dic tates of pure & disinterested affection. You will be pleased to pardon the slovenly manner in which this let ter is wrote, I was desirous of writing by General Knox, & I could have opportunity of doing it only during a very interesting debate in congress. I am with great regard, My dear Sir, Your most obed. Servt., Theodore SedgwickS RC (MHi: Lincoln Papers). 1 See John Brown tojohn Smith, July 9, note 4. 2 That is, Lincoln had recently been elected lieutenant governor of Massachusetts. 3 Sedgwick also wrote a five-page letter to Lincoln on August 15, from which the fol lowing extract was taken when it was advertised for sale in 1927 as “An Interesting His torical Letter. On the adoption of the Constitution; the preferred candidates for Vice President, etc.” “It was owing to the situation in the Southern States. . .that the meeting of the new Government was so long deferred.... The rejection of the Constitution by North Carolina creates a gloom among the Southern members.... Hancock ... will be most agreeable. Should he decline, Mr. J. Adams will undoubtedly be most generally voted for.” Bernet J. Beyer Catalogna. 12 (1927), item 333. Charles Thomson to Henry Knox Sir, August 1st. 1788. I have the Honor to inform you that your letter of this day, has been laid before Congress, & to enclose their Order, 1 granting you leave of absence, agreeably to your request. I wish you a prosperous and pleas ant Journey. I am &c &c C.T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). Addressed: “The Honorable the Secretary at War.” 1 For this order granting Knox leave, see JCC, 34:381. Knox’s August 1 letter request ing leave “to be absent a few weeks" on private business in Massachusetts, during which time he also proposed “to examine the Ordnance and Military Stores of the Union both at Providence and Springfield,” is in PCC, item 150, 2:431-34.
