268 August 2,1788 4 Madison later inserted an asterisk at this point and wrote at the bottom of the page “as prepared, probably.” New York’s July 26 ratification had appeared in the Daily Adver tiser of July 31, but since he had misdated this letter, Madison evidently assumed later that he had enclosed a draft version of the ratification before the New York convention had officially adopted the Constitution. John Armstrong, Jr. to Alida Livingston New York Sunday 3d. August. [17]88. The hope express’d in my hasty letter, of this day week 1 has not been gratified. The calls of private want are seldom heard, or heard but faintly, amidst the louder cries of contending States & Cities—& the Baron 2 may beg or want untill the competition between N. York & Philad. be decided. I thought I saw an end to this in the debates of the last week, but I then spoke my wishes rather than my experience, & forgot for a moment, that in deliberative assemblies, delay decides more questions than argument. I care much less about the effects of this policy upon the question, than upon myself for if it left me at lib erty to see my Alida, I would play the generous game, and even join my voice to Hamilton’s in preaching up it’s propriety & necessity—But as it is, you will not, I’m sure, blame me, for blaming it. I did & I pro pos’d—& the moment I had clos’d my Conversation with you, I went to begin another with your two sweet sisters. I found them at Edward’s—well & happy in hearing you were so. I have since seen them as often within the week, as public business & private engage ments would let me. Mary, Edward & Eliza are now on Long Island— they went over on Friday, & return to-morrow. Apropos of That mod ern Barbara Allen and her swain—my visit was the means of bringing them together for the first time since they parted at Poughkeepsie. Anxious to see me, John came to Edwards, even at the risque of seeing his Barbara. His passion is I find much more lively than his hopes— tho’ the latter are yet far from being extinguish’d. I wish he may not eventually find it her pleasure to give pain. The 2d of August has come & gone & Jones is not here—this is no otherways interesting to me than as a disappointment in not hearing from you. I had a thousand Questions to ask—& as many to answer. I regarded it as a kind of Assignation—Wish’d it with impatience, kept it with punctuality & so far gave myself up to fancy, as to blame you for what, if it were a fault, could only be ascribed to Jones. You will I’m sure make but one inference from this—& that is the pleasure you will give in letting me hear from you once a week at least. The post will be a safe & a speedy conveyance (When others do not present them-
