276 August 7,1788 partaking but too much of the spirit which govern’d them when your charming letter of the 3d was presented to me. I had but barely time to run it over till the debate took a turn which brought with it a neces sity for me to speak—conjecture its effects. For the first time in my whole public life, I was able to subject my temper entirely to my un derstanding, to abstract the subject from everything personal, and to triumph over myself if not over my opponents. How great the obliga tion my dear Alida, and how strong the reason that you should write often, since you write with such effect. ‘Tis true this may in one sense may be consider’d as accidental; as exacdy such a concurrence of cir cumstances may not happen again; but others as important, and in which the exercise of good humor may be as necessary to success & Expectations as the exercise of good sence, turn up so frequently in the course of even every-day business, that a mind but moderately im press’d with the truth and importance of the remark, cannot wish for too many motives to gentleness and forbearance, nor too many guards against an opposite disposition. Accept then my dear Girl an other Duty, and not only shape my opinions, but fashion my tem per—make it like your own, and I shall then become a permanent ex ample of moderation to even deliberative Assemblies. But why question your ability to discharge the office I before assign’d you—or why suppose that greater intimacy can dissolve a charm founded in qualities which it is the effect of Time to strengthen and extend? No Alida I have neither mistaken you nor myself—those qualities you possess, and ‘tis human nature to love and admire in proportion as we approach and enjoy them. “I have already experienc’d (you say) that we cannot journey thro’ this life without making some sacrifices and the sooner we accustom ourselves to consider them as duties the more willingly shall we per form them. And (you add) do you not already discover the effect of my imaginary influence.” And let me ask in turn whether it is by writ ing maxims of so much wisdom & elegance as this that you mean to prove that your real influence either will or ought to be less? however you may have intended it—it is evidence eno’ to me that it will, as it should, be greater. Yes my fair philosopher “the web of this life is of mingled yarn, good & ill together,” and we must sacrafice as well as enjoy. Yet conscious as I am of the truth of the fact, I know not when I have been more unwilling to submit to it’s necessity. With every wish to be at Clermont I must yet be here, and here for the miserable purpose of pleading a State Interest, and carrying a City point. For strip the question that has so much warm’d and agi tated us for 10 days past, of local interests and personal views—’tis a Meer Bagatelle whether the new Congress be conven’d at Philada. or N York. Tis such incidents that so much disgust me with the political walk, and make me so often enquire whether upon the whole “the
