282 August 9,1788 P.S. Should our new plan of Government succeed, which I have little doubt of, it is not unlikely that something may be done in the mercan tile plan you hinted at, in your letter of October, 1785; but I think it will be more probable that my son Callender will help to carry it into execution than myself: He is now at College, is 14 years old, & I hope will be graduated in three years. More of this when I shall again have the happiness of a line from you. Tr (WHi: Draper Collection—Pittsburgh & Northwestern Virginia Papers). 1 See Irvine to Rosenthal, September 1, 1787. 2 Not found. John Brown to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir New York August 10th. 1788 Your favor of the 28th May 1 came to hand a few days ago for which accept my warmest Acknowledgements. I am well convinced of the Justness of your remarks respecting the importance of strengthening & maintaining the connection between the District of Kentucky & the Maritime States. During my residence in that Country it was my constant care to cultivate that Idea But I am sorry to inform you that from the present complection of affairs there is reason to apprehend that the Connection will not be of long dura tion. Congress have rejected their application to be admitted into the Union as an Independent State notwithstanding it was acknowledged to be reasonable—thinking it inexpedient in the present State of the Confederacy & that the admission of a New State might affect the Bal lance of power unless Vermont could be brought forward at the same time. This will be considered by the people of that Country as a great disappointment inasmuch as they have been more than three years in bringing forward this application & as they are now refered to the new Government, to be admitted under which in a Constitutional Mode must necessarily be attended with considerable delay. Their vast in crease in population (amounting to at least one hundred thousand souls in that District alone) added to the great danger & difficulty at tending a communication with the Seat of Government renders their connection with Virginia so burdensom that there is every reason to expect that immediately on hearing that Congress have refused to re ceive them they will assume their Independence. Should they take this Step I think it very problematical whether or not they will apply for admission into the new Gonfederacy; especially as they are generally opposed to the new Constitution apprehending much inconvenience & danger from the Judicial System & fearing that the Powers vested in
