2 8 4 August 10,1788 role in promoting Kentucky statehood in Congress, advocating acceptance of the Con stitution among his correspondents in Kentucky and those attending the Virginia ratify ing convention in Richmond, and cultivation of the Spanish minister to gam advantages for Kentucky in navigation of the Mississippi, see Stuart S. Sprague, “Senator John Brown of Kentucky, 1757-1837: A Political Biography” (Ph.D. diss., New York University, 1972), pp. 72-104. Edward Carrington to Thomas Jefferson My dear Sir, New York Augt. 10. 1788 Having but a few Minutes notice of this opportunity by Mr. Tilher I can make but little more use of it, than to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the 27th of May, and to send you the second Vol. of the Foederalist. The first, I hope, you have received before this. 1 Virginia & New York have both adopted the Constitution, as you will be more particularly informed by Mr. Madison & Mr. Brown, who have written you. North Carolina commenced her session on the 17th Ult. and is probably the 12th Adopting State before this day. Rhode Island has taken no regular Step in the business as yet—a kind of informal refer ence of it was made to the people by the Legislature, which termi nated something like a rejection. I suppose however that she must soon take measures for adopting. Perhaps no coercive measures would be pursued to compel her, but it is impossible she can continue to treat with contempt a measure which is so generally embraced by the other States. . The good fortune of the Chevalier Jones in the service of the Em press gives me much pleasure. Your hint respecting a similar promo tion here, shall be attended if there shall appear, in the Course of the present session of Congress, a prospect of succeeding in an attempt to procure it. 2 I regret however that whilst foreign Nations are contend ing for eminence in confering distinctions upon this officer, This, of which he professes himself a Citizen, should appear, scarcely, to re member the events which founded his Character. I a few days ago did myself the pleasure to write to Mr Short by way of Holland. Be pleased to present me to him and assure yourself that it is with much satisfaction that I have the Honor to be, Your affection ate Friend & very humble Servt., Ed. Carrington RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). 1 See Carrington to Jefferson, May 14, note 4. 2 In his letter of May 4, which had been read in Congress on August 1, Jefferson had hinted that Congress’ promotion of John Paul Jones to rear admiral might further tm- prove his prospects with the Russian court, for which seeJCC, 34:382n.3; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 13:134-35. For Congress’ attention to Jones’ case before he departed for Europe, see these Letters, 24:527, 547-48. 3 Not found.
