286 August 10,1788 amendments, from which mischeifs are apprehended. 3 The great dan ger in the present crisis is that if another Convention should be soon assembled, it would terminate in discord, or in alterations of the fed eral system which would throw back essential powers into the State Leg islatures. The delay of a few years will assuage the jealousies which have been artificially created by designing men and will at the same time point out the faults which really call for amendment. At present the public mind is neither sufficiently cool nor sufficiently informed for so delicate an operation. The Convention of North Carolina met on the 21st. Ult. Not a word has yet been heard from its deliberations. Rhode Island has not re sumed the subject since it was referred to & rejected by the people in their several Towns. Congress have been employed for several weeks on the arrange ments of times & place for bringing the new Government into agency. The first have been agreed on though not definitively, & make it pretty certain that the first meeting will be held in the third week in March. The place has been a subject of much discussion, and contin ues to be uncertain. Philada. as least excentric of any place capable of affording due accomodations and a respectable outset to the Govern ment was the first proposed. The affirmative votes were N. Hamp shire, Connecticut, Pena., Maryd., Virga, and N. Carolina. Delaware was present & in favor of that place, but one of its delegates wishing to have a question on Wilmington previous to a final determination, di vided that State and negatived the motion. N. York came next in view, to which was opposed first Lancaster which failed, and then Baltimore which to the surprize of every body was carried by seven States, S. Car olina which had preferred N. York to the two other more Southern positions, unexpectedly concurring in this. The vote however was soon rescinded, the State of S. Carolina receding from, the Eastern States remonstrating against, and few seriously urging the eligibility of Baltimore. At present the question lies as it was originally supposed to do between N. York & Philada. and nothing can be more uncertain than the event of it. Rhode Island which alone was disposed to give the casting vote to N. York has refused to give any final vote for ar ranging & carrying into effect a system to which that State is opposed, and both the Delegates have returned home. Col. Carrington tells me he has sent you the first volume of the fed eralist, and adds the 2d by this conveyance. I believe I never have yet {mentioned to you that publication}. 4 It {was undertaken last fall by Jay, Hamilton and myself}. The {proposal came from the two former}. The {execution was thrown by the sickness of Jay mostly on the two others}. Though {carried in concert the writers are not mutually an swerable} for {all the ideas of each other} there being {seldom time for even a perusal} of the {pieces by any but the writer before they were wanted at the press} and {sometimes hardly by the writer himself}.
