August 11, 1788 287 I have not a moment for a line to Mazzei. Tell him I have reed his books & shall attempt to get them disposed of. I fear his calculations will not be fulfilled by the demand for them here in the French lan guage. His affair with Dorhman stands as it did. Of his affair with Fos ter Webb, I can say nothing. I suspect it will turn out badly. Yrs. Affecly., Js. Madison Jr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:225-27. 1 Madison later interlined “[Brissot].” For a description of Madison by Jacques Pierre Brissot de Warville, based upon an impression gained when Madison invited him to din ner soon after his arrival, see ibid., p. 227n.l. 2 The New York ratification, which included a declaration of 23 “explanatory” amend ments or rights that were not to be ‘abridged or violated,” four specific restrictions on congressional power regarding militia, elections, taxation, and requisitions that would be lifted upon the meeting of a second convention to consider amendments, and a list of 32 “recommendatory” amendments proposed by members of the convention, is in Certificates of Ratification of the Constitution and Bill of Rights, M338, DNA microfilm. It has been reprinted in Linda Grant De Pauw, The Eleventh Pillar: New York and the Con stitution (Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1966), pp. 293-302. 3 For the broadside copy of the New York Convention’s circular letter asking state ex ecutives to urge their legislatures to call a second convention to consider amendments to the Constitution, see Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 21,312. It was prepared by John Jay, John Lansing, and Melancton Smith, but signed by Governor George Clinton as con vention president. 4 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in cipher. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear friend N. York Augst. 11. [17] 88 The length of the interval since my last has proceeded from a daily expectation of being able to communicate the arrangements for intro ducing the New Government. The times necessary to be fixt by Congress have been many days agreed on. 1 The place of meeting has undergone many vicisitudes and is still as uncertain as ever. Philada. was first named by a member from Connecticut, and was negatived by the voice of one from Delaware, who wished to make an experiment for Wilmington. New York came next into view. Lancaster was op posed to it & failed. Baltimore was next tried and to the surprise of every one had seven votes, S. Carolina joining the Southern States & Penna, in the question. It was not difficult to foresee that such a vote could not stand. Accordingly the next day, N. York carried it on a sec ond trial, and at present fills the blank. Its success however was owing to Rhode Island whose delegates have refused to vote on the final question & have actually gone home. There are not at present seven States for any place, and the result must depend (Unless R. Island shd. return with instructions as is given out) on the comparative flexi bility of the Northern & Southern Delegations. In ordinary cases this
