290 August 11,1788 Pennsylvania Delegates to Peter Muhlenberg Sir New York Augt. 11th 1788 We have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 6th instant, and will take the earliest oppertunity of communicating the pleasing information it contains to Congress; 1 in the mean time we have informed the Secretary at War, who will immediately direct the Troops to proceed agreeably to their first destination. We have the honor to be Sir, with great respect, Your most Obedi ent and Humble Servants, Wm. Irvine Sami. Meredith John Armstrongjr. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Written by Irvine and signed by Irvine, Armstrong, and Meredith. 1 Muhlenberg’s letter, written in his capacity as vice president of the Pennsylvania Council, contained the news that Timothy Pickering had been released by his kidnap pers, that the unrest in the Wyoming Valley had subsided, and that the Continental troops requested to suppress the “rioters” were no longer needed. See Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 11:364-65; and Pennsylvania Delegates to Benjamin Franklin, July 28. Alexander Hamilton to Jeremiah Olney My Dear Sir 1 New York Aug 12. 1788 We have a question of very great importance depending in Congress, in which the vote of your state would be decisive. It relates to the place of meeting of the future Congress—Six states and a half prefer New York five and a half Philadelphia. When your delegates were here they voted with us on the intermediate questions; but when the final question came to be put Mr. Hazard’s scruples prevailed over his inclination for New York. 2 He however gave me to hope he would return in a short time. Mr. Arnold would have made no difficulty whatever if his colleague would have gone with him; but he could not be prevailed upon to do it. This is a matter of such moment not only to this state but to the Northern states in general that I have taken the liberty to address you on the subject, to request that every effort may be made to induce a representation of your state to come forward without loss of time. I am persuaded that the meeting of Congress here or at Philadelphia would make a difference on your politics and would facilitate or im pede, as the one or the other place should obtain, the adoption of the Constitution in your state. The intimate intercourse between us and you makes us look up to you as to a natural ally in this matter.
