August 12,1788 291 A doubt might perhaps be raised about your right to a vote under the present circumstances. 3 There is not a member of Congress but one who has even pretended to call your right in question. ‘Tis agreed generally that the power of organising the government is given by the ratifying states to the United States in Congress assembled, who are mere agents under a special authority and therefore the non adopting states stand on the same footing with the adopting. Nor can the exer cise of that right operate in any manner upon your situation. If the United States should even be considered as a foreign power, you might have a choice in such a question. Hazard I believe is softening, so that I should not think it politic to make any representation of his conduct which might irritate him. What is here said respecting him must therefore be received in confi dence as indeed must be this whole letter. If any difficulty about expence should arise I will with pleasure ac cept a draft on me. You will excuse this intimation which arises from my information that your state has not made provision for its dele gates & from a knowlege that individuals have been torn to pieces by your tender laws &c. With sincere esteem, I rema[i]n Yr. Obed Sr, A Hamilton RC (RHi); reprinted from Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 5:199-200. 'Jeremiah Olney (1749-1812), of Providence, R.I., a former lieutenant colonel in the Continental Army and member of the Rhode Island Assembly, 1785-86, was a promi nent federalist who was appointed collector of customs at Providence in June 1790 after Rhode Island ratified the Constitution. Washington, Papers (Abbot), Presidential Series (Twohig), l:400n. 2 Rhode Island’s delegates Peleg Arnold and Jonathan Hazard had voted for New York and against Philadelphia during the August 6 debate on the location of the new federal capital, but had returned home after attending Congress the 7th, the last day Rhode Island was ever represented under the Articles of Confederation. See ICC, 34:397-405. 3 That is, Rhode Island had already rejected the new Constitution in a statewide refer endum held March 1, 1788, and would not ratify it until May 29, 1790. Charles Thomson to Arthur St. Clair Sir, Office of Secretary of Congress, Augt. 12th. 1788 I have the honor of transmitting to You herewith enclosed, an Act of the U.S in Congress Assembled, passed this day, after considering Your letters ofjuly 13 & 16th. 1 I have the honor & LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). Addressed: “Govr. St. Clair.” 1 The enclosed “Act” requested Pennsylvania and Virginia to prepare 500 and 1,000 militiamen, respectively, for an expedition against the Indians of the middle depart-
