294 August 13,17887 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 That is, Capt. Alexander Forrester Inglis Cochrane, inquiring about his brother Maj Charles Cochrane, aide-de-camp to Cornwallis who had been killed at Yorktown. See Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 5:202n, 206, 220, 230; and Washington, Papers (Abbot), Presidential Series (Twohig), l:25n. 2 Daniel Morgan, for which see Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 5:220. 3 Also Morgan, ibid. 4 That is, the Federalist, which had been published in two volumes March 22 and May 28,1788. Nicholas Gilman to John Langdon RC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). 1 The August 14 issue of Francis Childs’ New York Daily Advertiser reported on the au thority of the postmaster at Richmond writing to the postmaster at Philadelphia “that the CONVENTION OF NORTH CAROLINA HAS REJECTED THE NEW CONSTITU TION BY A LARGE MAJORITY—For the adoption 76, Against it 176, Majority 100.” NewYork August 14th 1788 My present writing is not dictated by an eagerness to make unpleas ant communications but by the united principles of duty and inclina tion to give your Excellency the earliest notice of every important oc- currance. From North Carolina we have no official accounts or authentic let ters but the inclosed advertizer announces the very unexpected intelli gence of a rejection of the new System by a large Majority of the Con vention of that State. 1 This report may not be true, yet it becomes me to remark that the delegates in Congress from that State seem to en tertain no doubts on the Subject. Mr. Williamson observes that the op position are of those who are the Zealous advocates for a paper Cur rency, that has depreciated fifty per Cent, and who are determined to keep it up untill their debts are paid. This ungracious occurrance is therefore another striking instance of the baleful effects of that fluctu ating medium. The Ordinance for organizing the new government is not yet com plete owing to the desertion of Rhode Island before the final Ques tion was taken. I fear we shall not be able to induce the Southern States to meet earlier than the first of March. New York will probably be the place of meeting; but of this I cannot pronounce with Cer tainty. Of foreign affairs—I have only to remark generally that the disposi tion for hostilities does not at all relax—and that a general war will ensue seems to be the prevailing opinion in France. With the highest Respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellencys Most obedient and Most Humble Servant, N. Gilman
