August 16, 1788 297 dant of Indian Affairs for 3 months after the 29th of August. 1 With re spect to the other Objects connected with this Business & recom mended by your Excellency to our Consideration, we have used our utmost Diligence, being fully sensible of it’s high Importance to the Welfare of the Southern States. The Resolutions of Congress on the Subject we now enclose, & hope they will prove satisfactory & ade quate to their Situation. 2 Having no Power to enforce Compliance from the State of North Carolina, we cou’d find no other Method of guarding against the evil Consequences of her Neglect, than that which is adopted in the last Resolution. Congress having before taken into serious Consideration the Continuance of Hostilities by the Creek Indians, did authorize the Superintendant to inform them, if necessary, that the Arms of the United States wou’d be employ’d to bring them to reasonable Terms of Accommodation. 3 The Secretary at War was at the same time required to report a plan for conducting the War, if it shou’d be inevitable. The Application of the State of Virginia & District of Kentucky, on the Subject of erecting the latter into a separate State, having been con sider’d by Congress, a Resolution was pass’d, approving the Measure & recommending the farther prosecution of it under the new Govern ment, as being alone competent to it’s actual Accomplishment. 4 Congress having pass’d a Resolution to allow a farther Term of 3 months to the several States for delivering in their Claims upon the United States, a Copy of the same has been forwarded to your Excel lency from the Secretary’s Office. 5 The Act of Cession of western Territory by the State of Georgia being clogg’d with Conditions which were not thought proper to be acceded to by Congress, it was determined not to accept it but on other specified Conditions which were deem’d more eligible. 6 The Ratification of the new Constitution by the State of New Hamp shire, making the 9th State, having been receiv’d, Congress immedi ately proceeded to the Consideration of the Measures recommended by the late general Convention as preparatory to the Meeting of the new Legislature. It is with regret that we find ourselves yet unable to communicate to your Excellency the final Result of the Deliberations on this Subject. After much Time spent in Debate on the several Peri ods to be fixt & the place for the first Meeting of the new Congress, a Set of Resolutions were at length compleated, which separately ob tain’d the Approbation of the House, but on taking the Question upon the whole it unfortunately pass’d in the negative, so that the Business remains still undetermined. In the Resolutions alluded to, the first Wednesday in January next was fixt for the Appointment of
