August 17,1788 299 structed, we shall conclude that the Legislature is content that the Lands shou’d be granted to the Individuals agreeable to the Ordi nance of Congress, which does not take into View the Provision made by our Law. As every Question which involves in it a Construction of any of the constitutional Powers of Congress not clearly defined by the Articles of Confederation, is of Importance to the Legislatures of the several States, we find it incumbent on us to mention that in consequence of an Application from the Executive of Pennsylvania, Congress thought proper to order that a Detachment of Continental Troops in their March to the Westward shou’d so alter their Route as to pass into Luzerne County in that State & halt there for a limited time, with a View to assist, if it shou’d be necessary, in quieting the Commotions there. By a Letter since receiv’d, Congress are inform’d that this Mea sure is no longer deem’d necessary. 10 We are with much Respect, Your Excellency’s Most obedt. Servts., DI. Huger John Parker Thos. Tud. Tucker RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Written by Tucker and signed by Tucker, Huger, and Parker. 1 For this August 4 resolution, see JCC, 34:383. 2 For these August 14 resolutions appropriating additional monies for conducting a southern Indian treaty, see Charles Thomson to Samuel Johnston, August 15, note. 3 See Charles Thomson to George Handley, July 17, note 3. 4 See Thomson to Samuel McDowell, July 3. 5 See Thomson to the States, June 24. 6 See Thomson to Handley, July 17, note 2. 7 For Martin’s appointment, see Edward Carrington to Edmund Randolph, June 25, note 2. 8 See Thomson to Arthur St. Clair, August 12. 9 See Richard Henry Lee to William Lee, July 30, 1787, note 4. 10 See Pennsylvania Delegates to Benjamin Franklin, July 28, note 3; and to Peter Muhlenberg, August 11, note. George Thatcher to Sarah Thatcher City of New York, 17 August, 7 788. Discusses letters he has recently re ceived from friends. “When I begun this Letter, I proposed to write but a moment, till my shoes were brought in, and then intended to set off & go to meeting; but I believe it is too late. I shall therefore charge this day to you For I have no doubt I should have went to meeting, this forenoon, had it not been for writing this Letter—so I shall ex-
