300 August 17,1788 pect you to answer for my absence—And I think you may, since you are likely to recieve the effect of my tarrying at home. “I forgot to tell you in a former Letter, that I did not take water pas sage, from New-Haven as I wrote you, from Hartford, I expected to. 1 When I arrived at New-Haven, I met Mr. & Mrs. King, waiting for the Stage, thinking from the conversation we had at Boston, that I should take passage with them. They said many things to induce me to sail with them; but my timidity of going on the water overcame their civil ity—And I keept in the Stage, which got to New York the next evening. But they did not get there till the morning after—they had an agreeable, pleasant time. They are well, Mrs. King frequently laments, that they could not go into our Country. I call on them al most every day—to see them & kiss their little child— tis a sweet baby. I assure you I kiss the little creature with great pleasure. I make a sort of a substitute of it for the absence of our dear little Sally. “Mr. Otis left us two days ago. He has gone home upon a very melancholly occasion—To take a last farewell of a Daughter he was dotingly fond of. He is a worthy, & amiable man—very fond of home and a Domestic Life. This turn of mind makes him less happy while he is here. “I never discovered in you a disposition to meddle with politics, & if I had, I should not have cultivated it with any desire of making you a politician. Therefore I doubt whether you trouble yourself much about the new Constitution—whether it is adopted, or rejected. But as I have not time to write to our Honoured Father by this post—I must observe—that pretty certain news arrived from Hillsborough, in North Carolina, two days ago, of that State having rejected the Constitution, by a majority of 176, against 70. No official account has come to ha[n]d—but it is attended with so many circumstances of probability, as to leave no room for doubt.” RC (MHi: Thatcher Papers). 1 Thatcher had just returned to Congress August 6. See/CC, 34:394, 399. William Irvine to Samuel Holden Parsons Dear Sir New York Augt. 18th 17[88] I should have acknowledged the receipt of your favor of the 22d of April immediately, but that I expected to get up to Pittsburgh before you left it, when I arrived there & found Mr. Duncan had gone down with you, as had authority to act for me with himself, & I did not wish to trouble you knowing you would be much engaged in the new scenes you had undertaken—add to this the fluctuating state of things in that quarter, particularly an apprehension that that there was some
