302 August 18,1788 proper. Mr. R. Morris I am told will be here soon, and I shall endeav our then to supply the omitted circumstances. In the meantime Mr. Triplet may either make out a fuller statement & forward it, or wait till he hears from me on the subject. I have had no opportunity of doing any thing as to Anthony, since my last. John continues to decline. I think he is in a consumption, and will not stand it very long. No late news of consequence has come from Europe. The war ap pears to be going on between the two imperial Courts & the Turks. And the affairs of France portend a serious struggle between the royal authority & the spirit of liberty. We just learn the fate of the Constitution in N. Carolina. Rho. Is land is however her only associate in the opposition, and it will be hard indeed if those two States should endanger a system which has been ratified by the eleven others. Congress have not yet finally set tled the arrangements for putting the new Government in operation. The place for its first meeting creates the difficulty. The Eastern States with N. York contend for this City. Most of the other States in sist on a more central position. Tell my brother Ambrose if you please that he must draw on Mr. Shepherd for the price of the Negro boy for the French Marchioness. 3 On a second & more accurate examination of my pa pers I have found your loan office certificates. With affecte. regards to the family I remain, Yr. dutiful son, Js. Madison Jr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:235-36. 1 Not found. 2 Perhaps Francis Triplett, for whom see ibid., p. 236n.l. 3 That is, the marquise de Brehan. Samuel Meredith to Margaret Meredith My Dear Peggy 1 N.Y. Augt. 18, 1788. Your last made me very happy as there were no complaints of head Ach & sleepless nights. I hope the Exercise has done you good, & that you will continue to take it when you can, & be as often in Town & at the House as opportunity will admit. By Mr Contee of Maryland I sent you a Canister of Snuff, he went away while I was in Congress therefore could not write, he promissed to send it to Mr Clymer or Mr Fitzsimmons, & I make no doubt Mr Smith will receive it safe. Compts to him & Mrs. S.
