August 18,1788 305 of the children. I cannot tell & will not undertake to conjecture what will be your future plans but I know that it is the united & ardent wish of your friends that you was not so far seperated from them. You can not be insensible how tenderly affectionate your sisters all are towards you & their husbands partake with them in the sentiments. And your brother tho he may not express his sentiments in the same language, yet I do not think it is from want of affection to you. You will be the best judge what may conduce to your own happiness, interest & use fulness & that of your family, & wisdom & prudence under various considerations brot into view will direct you, but if you should think it expedient to altar your past determinations & return to New England your friends would rejoyce at the Idea. I do not expect to tarry here more than one month from this time; 4 should it be in your power to write to me within this time it will afford to me great satisfaction as well as to my wife who has been informed from me of you. I had a letter from her the last of July when she & the children were all well. I have not received any letter from your brother tho’ I have written several to him & I also invited him to write to you thro my hand but have received none. He has considerable business that commands his attention & has so much writing which is necessary that he was willing to excuse himself from any more. I begin to be im patient to return home having been absent already seven months and I think that in a month more there will be nothing which will neces sarily detain me here. We have lately had a very full Congress consist ing of 40 members from the 13 States a greater number it is said than has been for 12 years past. There have been great disputes where the meeting of the first Congress should be under the new constitution. The question is not determined & I view it as uncertain but suppose the probab[il]ity is in favor of New York. Philadelphia & N York are in competition. There are many considerations of weight on both sides & I think nearly balanced. New Hampshire would have been content with Phila. & gave their ay for it, when that place was proposed but when 7 states were not agreed in that by means of some southern states dissenting, we had no objection to N York as being more conve nient to the eastern states, and accordingly voted for that likewise when proposed. We have continual accounts from the western fron tiers as far as Georgia of Indian hostilities & there appears consider able dangers of a general war of the Indians. I believe from the ac counts the Whites are very much to blame & from their imprudences may involve the U.S. in very great expence as well as themselves in dis tresses. From the European news it appears that great preparations are making by most of the nations for war while they profess their de signs for peace, but Mr. Jefferson in a late letter to Congress says no body doubts of a general war soon. 5 France is yet in great convulsion & the issue of the struggle there is very doubtful. The enthusiasm for
