308 August 19,1788 have been successively in nomination. We have examined the preten sions of this city, and the causes that could lead its friends to advocate them. Some of our club, Messrs. Printers, are mechanics, who are in the habit of rearing their superstructures on solid foundations; they therefore require that arguments addressed to them, must be well supported. We began with an examination of the letter addressed to Congress, by the president of the convention, when the constitution was trans mitted, in which he informs them that a spirit of amity and of mutual deference and concession alone induced so unanimous a concur rence to this plan of government, which the diversity of state interests seemed rather calculated to preclude. It was but a reasonable expecta tion, that the same spirit would actuate Congress, and that the first act of government would indicate a disposition to impart equal advan tages and accommodations to every part of the union—that conse- quendy the government would be assembled to commence proceed ings in the place, nearest the center of national population. The convention has furnished a rule by which the relative situation of each state, in this respect, may be determined, which is, by the number of representatives, that it is entitled to send to the federal leg islature. We examined the pretensions of New York by this scale, and found that there were but 17 representatives from the states to the northward, and as many as forty-two from those to the southward, which calculated by 40,000 to each Representative makes 680,000 in habitants on one side, and 1,980,000 on the other—we found likewise that the extreme part of the district from which the 168,000 are to come, amount to above 1,000 miles and on the opposite side to about 350 miles. Such an arrangement militates against every principle of re publican government, and of the federal constitution, which was insti tuted for the purpose of promoting the general welfare, and of secur ing equal rights to the people. It must involve the southern states in the greatest inconvenience, from the number of persons that will have business to transact with the federal government, and the federal judi ciary, who must travel such a great distance beyond the central point. Besides, the more southern states, which are in the neighborhood of continual danger from their contiguity to hostile tribes of Indians, as well as to foreign nations, and which are so weak and defenseless, must complain at having the power of that government exercised at such a distance, whose protection alone can insure them tranquility; and in case of domestic insurrections, or external invasions, the neces sary assistance must be delayed, in proportion to the time it will take in soliciting it—the essential communications betwixt the southern members of the federal legislature and their constituents will be greatly obstructed by placing Congress in such an eccentric position;
