318 August 23,1788 Coasting Vessel & now the very leader of I Know Ye Justices who offici ates at County Courts & receives small Fees not as a Lawyer but Agent for Suitors. These two respectable Delegates with the innate Desire of promoting a bad measure lately voted on several Questions respecting the Organisation of the new Govt, in order to fix it in New York, a Corner of the Union, but before the final Question was taken on the Ordinance they caused a Member to move in Congress for a Vote “That nothing which the Delegates from Rh Is. or NC had done or might do in voting on the Subject should be construed as in any mea sure affecting the Rights &c of their Constituents. [’J 1 This was to be a Bull or Absolution. On this Motion the Delegates from N.C. moved that the Word North Carolina should be struck out of the Vote of Ab- solutio, And thereon we called for the Yeas & Nays to prove that we did not wish to have NC associated in any Vote with Rh I, that we did not wish for Absolution being conscious of having pursued our Duty. That with Respect to the final Vote which was to be taken on the Ordi nance we proposed never to assist in such Vote unless NC should con federate for we would not be guilty of paracide by throwing our State out of the Union. On this the Motion was withdrawn; the Rh. I. Gen tlemen missed the promised Pleasure of doing wrong & on the next morning they set out Homeward. I wrote the Governor a Letter 2 concerning the Conduct of some Members when the Business referred to was first moved in Congress and with my usual want of prudent Dissimulation I expressed an hon est Indignation by calling Spade a Spade. This Letter it seems has been read in the Convention & a Correspondent up the Country writes me that he fears it has hurt me greatly. As I did not consider that Letter as official & one that should be communicated to a public Assembly I took no Copy of it and do not know what it contained, but as I am conscious that I never write in the most careless mood any thing but what I think and as I am also conscious that since I have been hon oured with a commission from the State I have not in a single In stance preferred my private Interest to the Benefit of the State, that I never have through private Indulgence or inattention omitted a single opportunity of serving the State. Being conscious of no corrupt mo tive my zeal on a late occasion to serve the State has not been abated at an Hour when I had reason to suppose that the Action would not be popular. Had I supported what I conceive to be a dishonest mea sure in pursuit of Popularity I should for the first Time, as a public man, had occasion to condemn my self. Doing what I conceive to be the Dictate of Honesty & true Patriotism I mean to abide Conse quences, my friends know that I do not depend for a Support on pub lic favour. The 22nd Amendment 3 so called was certainly a very important one for NC. If an East India Company or a Mediterranian Company should be erected it would greatly interfere with her Trade to those
