August 26,1788 323 Charles Thomson the States Sir, (Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress. August 25. 1788 I have the honor to transmit to your Excellency herewith enclosed, a Requisition of the United States in Congress Assembled for the Year 1788; 1 for further illustration I must beg leave to refer you to the Let ter which the Board of Treasury will write to you on this subject. With great Respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient & Most hum servt., Cha Thomson RC (R—Ar: Letters to Governors). Addressed: “His Excellency The Governor of Rhode Island.” LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 On June 9 Congress ordered the board of treasury to submit “an estimate of the sums necessary for the services of the year 1788 including the interest on the foreign and domestic debt and the amount of the capital of the foreign which will become due in the year 1789.” The board’s estimates were submitted July 9 and referred to a com mittee consisting of Abraham Clark, Abraham Baldwin, William Bingham, Nathan Dane, and Hugh Williamson, whose report was submitted on August 4, debated August 13, and adopted August 20. See JCC, 34:209, 305, 388-90, 419-21, 433-42. Thomson’s enclosure was actually a broadside printing of the requisition, for which see JCC, 34:634 (item 611); and Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 21,516. See also South Carolina Delegates to Thomas Pinckney, September 6. Abraham Clark to William Livingston Sir, New York August 26h 1788. I am unable to say when the Act of Congress for putting the New Government into Operation will be agreed to: 1 The matter was taken up in Congress as soon as nine States had ratified, but the Convention of New York being then sitting, in which two thirds of the members were Opposed to the New Constitution, it was thought unadviseable to proceed in the business at the time further than agreeing upon the time to chuse Electors—the time for them to meet to Elect a presi dent & Vice President—and the time of meeting of the New Congress: but the place of meeting was purposely delayed untill the New York Convention should come to some final determination. Two reasons induced Congress to this delay, first that New York could not be fixed upon as the place unless they ratified; secondly, to appoint any other place while they were deliberating would, in all probability insure a final rejection, to prevent which it was suffered to pass as a very proba ble event, if not as a matter of Certainty, that in Case they did Adopt, New York would be the place of meeting. This perhaps was one princi ple Cause of their adopting, and without their being led into this opinion I believe they would have rejected the Constitution. In this Business I feel no particular attachment in favour of N. York, nor as
