324 August 26,1788 they have adopted the New Constitution whereby all former grounds of Complaint are removed, ought I as a member from New Jersey to retain any resentment. I am influenced by other motives: for as it was a very important and desireable Object to have this State become a member of the New Government, so it is necessary for Congress to Act in such a manner as to avoid the Charge of deceiving the State in what I consider well grounded expectations: besides, all our public Offices are here and cannot be removed without a great expence which our Treasury cannot conveniently defray; and after all we might go to a place the New Congress might disapprove of as a temporary resi dence. New Jersey laying between New York and Philadelphia are equally contiguous to each and at this time in that point of view ought not to give a preference to either, such as a removal from one to the other. The same reason would hold good against removing to New York were Congress at Philadela.—to which I may add, that a removal to Philada. would be losing all Chance of having the permanent Seat of Government fixed near the falls of Delaware as formerly agreed to, which is an Object New Jersey ought not to lose sight of so long as a probable Chance remains. To go to Philada. before the future Seat of Government is fixed on, will be giving up all prospects of this kind, as there will not be a probability of Obtaining it to the Northward of the place Congress shall be in at the time—they may go from hence to the Delaware near Trenton, Pennsylvania may as formerly join in such a measure, but never will if Congress are at Philadela. These are reasons that induced me to give New York the preference. Should the Delega tion of New Jersey join in favour of Philadela. it would be of no avail, it would only make an equal division of the States, there would in that case be five States and a half for New York, and the same number for Philadela.—as Eleven only Votes upon the Occasion, and no more can be expected unless Rhode Island comes forward in favour of New York as is expected, the Delegation of North Carolina will not vote on the question. As there may be different Opinions in the Legislature respecting the Conduct of their Delegates on this question, I have taken the lib erty to request your Excellency to Communicate to both Houses this Statement of the principle reasons that influenced my conduct which I trust will be satisfactory: 2 The several votes will appear in the Jour nals of Congress sent forward by the Secretary. In order to Accommodate all the States we were obliged to place the times for Electing &c. at periods much more distant than were Necessary for New Jersey, some Legislatures could not be convened earlier than November, none except the present meeting in New Jer sey, will be before some time in October; should the business be de layed some time longer in Congress (which it is wished may not be long) no inconvenience will happen, provided the same go to the States by the time they meet in October.
