326 August 26, 1788 Thomas Tudor Tucker to St. George Tucker My beloved Brother New York Augt. 26. 1788 I have the pleasure to enclose to you a Letter receiv’d this day from our dear invaluable Parent, from which you will no doubt learn the very great Alarm all the Family have been under on Account of the se vere & dangerous Illness of our Sister in St. George’s. Happily, to their great Relief, it had pleased Heaven to give a favorable Turn to her Dis order, & they had reason to hope that she wou’d soon be restored to Health. We are both capable of feeling in it’s fullest Force the Distress of our poor Brother, & must equally rejoice with him in the happy Change. I thank you heartily for your kind favor by your Son Richard who had a very short passage from Norfolk. He affords me infinite pleasure in the Accounts he gives of your Health & that of your dear Girls & Boys. May Heaven be in all things propitious to you & them. I am not a little disappointed & mortified at not seeing you. It wou’d have been a great Cordial to us both to have had a Meeting. Much I wish for a long Conversation with you, & on no Subject more than that of our dear Natty. I have not been able to read his Books, for my Eyes are often too weak to permit me to attend properly to necessary Business. I wish much to write to him, but know not what to write, & I fear he will take it unkind as he express’d great Solicitude to hear from me speedily. I think he is under a kind of Fanaticism which does not amount to what you apprehend. I am the more inclined to hope this, as his practice has rather increased lately, & he seems somewhat guarded against the consequences of having his Sentiments made public to a prejudiced World. His Letters to me are exceedingly long & for the reason above mention’d I shall perhaps not be able to send you Copies as soon as I cou’d wish, for I do not choose to shew them to any person who might transcribe them. I cannot express how much I wish to converse with you on this Subject, for I am anxious to have some fixt Opinion of his Situation. He has indeed gone so far as to speak of extraordinary Appearances to himself. John has been very much indisposed lately, so that I have been obliged to take him from College to my Lodgings. He is now much better & I hope will soon be well. Theod. has also had several Attacks of Fever, but not severe. I shou’d be happy to pay you a Visit, but have no immediate prospect of being able to do it. I am in Appointment for as much of the next federal Year as will run out the present Constitution, which probably will expire in the Beginning of March, for that is the Time which has long been agreed on in Congress for the Meeting of the new Legisla ture, but being very much divided concerning the Place no Act on the Subject has yet obtain’d final Approbation. The Contest at present seems to be betwixt this City & Philadelphia, & the parties are so tena-
