August 27, 1788 327 cious that nothing can be done. I am for several Reasons averse to Philadelphia. I fear the aristocratical Influence of that City. May Heaven bless you, my dearest Brother, & all who are dear to you. Give my tenderest Love to your dear Children. Remember me with sincere regard to Maria, Miss Betty & other good Friends. I am with every Sentiment of unalterable Friendship, Your most af fect. Brother, Thos. Tud. Tucker RC (ViW: Tucker—Coleman Papers). John Armstrong, Jr. to Alida Livingston Wednesday 27th. Augt. 1788. It gives me much pain, my dear Girl, that your most obliging letter of the 17th with a note of the 20th should not have reachd me till this moment (8 OClock in the Evening). The cause however is very expli cable; and least it might give you some uneasiness to know the fact, without knowing the cause, I must be indulg’d in employing the only moment I have in telling it. You must know then that on Friday last Mrs. L, & her whole houshold set out on their shooting party to the Is land—where they have been ‘till this afternoon. Now as Mrs. Deforest was the bearer of Mrs. Lewis’s packet, (which enclosd missive did not arrive till Sunday Morning). It follows of course, that the obstruction it met with arose only from Mrs. L absence, & could only be cur’d by her return. Accept a thousand thanks for it. Even its delay has enhanc’d its worth—and I receive it as an u[n] expected tribute of that attachment which in language, poetical but true, is at once “my highest glory & my greatest good.” I am so much recover’d as to be again abroad. I made John (who is not well & to whom I owe a good deal in that way) a visit this morning. Let Mary’s opinion be what it may & founded on what it will, I can now assure you, as I believe I did before, that Eliza is no longer his de sease. 1 Jones has I hope by this time got to the Manor, be perfectly easy on the subject of your letters. No eye but my own has seen, or shall see them—tho’ I confess that were I more vain (than I believe tis possible for me to be) on any subject, it would be on this. ‘Twould be to hear your praise from others, as strongly as I feel your worth myself, ‘Twould be to receive the envy of my enemies, & the gratulations of my friends. But I risque the passage of my letter & of course the oppertunity of once more telling you, what in my heart & soul I am. Your ever Affectionate J Armstrong jr.
