September 4, 1788 339 Edward does not go till Saturday. Remember me to your Mama—Mrs. Montgomery, Kitty & Joanna, & be assur’d that I am with all possible affection, Your J Armstrongjr. 1 RC (John Armstrong Papers, Rokeby Collection, Barrytown, N.Y.). 1 Armstrong also wrote a brief letter to Alida on Sunday, September 7, observing, “I write to-day only to inform you that I have written yesterday and the day preceeding [not found],” and reporting that he had recovered his health. Ibid. William Few to Unknown Dear Sir New York Septr. 4th 1788 Parson Boyd will this day sail from here for Georgia, and go imme diately to Augusta, which is so direct an opportunity, that I cannot re sist the propensity of droping you a few lines, altho we have little news that is worth communicating. Congress have not yet agreed on the place for the first meeting of the Legislature under the new Constitution. Several places have been proposed among which are Anappolis, Baltimore and Lancaster, but the competition at present lies between Philadelphia and New York, and on this question there is a diversity of opinion; it is said by the advocates for Philadelphia that it is more central and possess other advantages in an equal degree and ought therefore to be the place of residence of the National Government. To this it is objected and said that the National Legislature ought not to reside in a large Commer cial City where the members would be subject to the undue influence of the local policy of the place, and that such large City would derive such advantages as would be injurious to the equal rights and priv- iledges of the other members of the union, contrary to the genius and principles of Republican Government and will evidently tend to facilitate the growth of that Aristocrasy or Monarchy, so hatefull to Americans, and to which there is too much reason to apprehend the New government will have a tendancy. That the place for the parma- nent Residence of the New Congress is an object of much impor tance, and highly interesting to those States which are so Situate as to stand in competition for that advantage and they will be induced by their own Interest to make advantageous offers to the United States to establish the federal Town in their respective limits, if Congress in the first instance does not give any partial advantage, and therefore they say the first Congress under the New Constitution ought to meet in New York where all the Officers and documents of Government are and from whence the new Legislature may with more impartiality determine where the parmanent Residence of the National Legisla ture ought to be.
