344 September 6, 1788 3 Gerry’s September 8 response to Hamilton has not survived, but for an extract from it which Hamilton’s committee quoted in their September 11 report, see JCC, 34:510-11. 4 Hamilton also wrote on September 8 to “The Honorable Richard Morris, Esq., Chief Justice of the State of New York,” enclosing a petition on behalf of the estate of Philip Livingston. Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 5:215. James Madison to James Madison, Sr. Hond Sir N. York Sepr. 6.1788 I forward this by the mail expecting it will be at Fredg. in time for Mr. A. Shepherd who left this a day or two ago. Nothing of much con sequence has occurred since my last. The current intelligence you will find in the inclosed gazettes. The Antifederalists are every where ex erting themselves for an early Convention. The circular letter from this State, and the rejection of N. Carolina, give them great spirits. Vir ginia, I suppose from the temper of the present Legislature will co-op erate in the plan. Congress have not yet settled the place for the meeting of the new Govt. It is most probable that the advocates for N. York who form at present the greater number, will prevail. In that case, altho’ I think it a very unreasonable thing for the Southn. & Western parts of the Union, the best face must be put on it. I have not yet been able to determine whether Anthony is still in Philada. I am inclined to believe he is not. Indeed some circumstances wd almost tempt me to think he never has been there. On this suppo sition John must have practised a gross deception on us. He could have no motive for this unless it were a spite to Billey, which I fancy he entertained. But the deception could hardly promise a gratification that would prompt it. He is still very sick, and his recovery not very probable. I find on enquiry that the loan office Certificates which I told you I had only mislaid, not lost, must go to N. Carolina for setdement. If an oppy. offers I shall accordingly send them thither unless otherwise di rected by you. I have not yet seen Mr. Morris & have therefore not been able to do any thing in the affair of Mr. Triplett. Remember me affecdy to my mother & the family, and believe me yr. dutiful son. Js. Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:247-48.
