September 11, 1788 351 can be bot & 3/ for the Interest. I am not in the way of knowing much of this business. I expect next week to leave this City for home, you will please therefore not to direct further to me as at New York. I have nothing remarkable to communicate but shall enclose a newspaper. I am Sir your most humble Servant, Paine Wingate RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1907). Addressed: “John Wendell Esquire, Portsmouth, New Hampshire.” 1 Not identified. John Armstrong, Jr. to Alida Livingston Thursday 11th. Sept. 1788. N. York. I wrote something by the post of yesterday 1 which in point of length, hardly deserves the name of a note; but promis’d to do better to-day in answer to the long letter I expected, & the too short one I receiv’d. I don’t know that I can give a name to the cause but the fact is that I find myself becoming a most rigid moralist & begin to think that there’s litde difference between dissembling a fact & telling a false hood; & (to apply this) that it would have been quite as well to have told you at once, that what with some days of bad weather—a little vexatious business; & two or three instances of shuffling & meanness in men of whom I wish’d to think better, I was both out of temper & spirits, & in no disposition either to write or think as I ought. Had I done this, my promise, which I have now sat down to execute, would have implied a condition, & not have been binding but under a change of circumstances; While, as it is, I can but aim at what I should be, betray myself at every line, & at lest, to avoid the shame of detec tion honestly confess (as I now do) that a repetition of the causes to day have not at all lessen’d their effect, & that I continue to be more flat & sour & Cold than I ought to be on any occasion, but particularly when I’m writing to one who is herself all equanimity & tenderness. I feel & acknowlege the folly of making oneself an Index either to men, weather, or busin [ess], but so shap’d & compos’d are we, that stretch us ten times a day on the wheel of error—still we mistake, & tho’ we repent very sincerely, we repent without any amendment. I will make no apology for all this—that would be apologizing for an apology—for it is seriously meant as an excuse for what I could not but discover at some turn or other of my pen. Besides are not the diseases of the
