358 September 12,1788 tage of yourself & the others concerned. We have already in the com mencement of it’s prosecution met with numerous embarrassments, we hope they will not continue, if they should we shall take the best measures to face & overcome them. 3 Septr 12th 4 This morning Mr Marsh came over agreeably to my ap pointment to execute & subscribe to, the contract we had drawn up— The Board receded from the objection as to quantity mentioned on the other side but raised a new difficulty as to our power of Attorney which they said was very imperfect & insufficient—It recites in it’s be ginning that a contract, had been entered into between you & the Board & refers to that written agreement, which the board says never had existence. They say it is true Congress authorised them to con tract with you for two millions on certain terms, but that you never came forward & contracted—They say also that you proposed to pur chase instead thereof but one million with certain boundaries, to which they disagreed—that they in their turn offered to sell you a mil lion with other boundaries which you by letter declined. From all this they infer that there is not only no written [Ms uncertain] you express but not even a verbal contract between you & also that there never has been either. They add that all the powers you have vested us with, refer to & are founded upon this supposed contract which, you sug gest, actually exists between you & them & which they know nothing about & consequendy cannot acknowledge. They have even gone to the expence of employing & consulting Council on the occasion, by whom, our power is declared to be altogether defective. They offered to contract with us for the land in our own names & right which we have refused—& they have at length consented to accept our signa tures as Agents for you upon our agreeing to annex a proviso that we will procure from you a more ample & sufficient power of Attorney, or failing to do that, that we will, individually & in our proper characters, consider & acknowledge ourselves bound to perform the conditions & stipulations. It will be necessary or at least desireable that you make out this power immediately, acknowledge it before one or the other two Judges of the Western territory & forward it by the first opportu nity. As soon as this business is compleated on our part, Mr Boudinot &c. mean to agree for the million on the little Miami, which they pro pose to divide into forty shares and have promised me that you may take what number of them you think proper. All are to come in by their plan on equal terms, they do not seem disposed to promise a preference in favor of Capt. Stites but say they will leave the considera tion of his case to the whole of the associates. The contracts of Morgan & Flint & Parker are destroyed, & the rise of Certificates makes the people here less eager to engage in land speculations than when you left us. I enclose you a copy of the letter of agency & of your acct as you requested. You may remember Mr
