September 13, 1788 361 would seem, that the States had no guard to take against previous set tlements with the U.S., and that charges for depredation paid to such Officers will be adjudged valid, notwithstanding any such previous set- dements which might have been made by the applicants. We take the liberty to submit these considerations, in order that you may determine whether it will not be best for the U.S. to take pro ceedings against Doctor Draper for their indemnification. We 3 have the Honor to be &c. FC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). In the hand of Edward Carrington. 1 For which see Madison, Papers (Rutland), ll:251n.l. 2 See JCC, 20:637. 3 The Virginia delegates attending Congress at this time were Carrington, Cyrus Grif fin, Henry Lee, and James Madison. Nathan Dane to Theodore Sedgwick My Dear Sir New York Sepr. 13. 1788 The question about the place of the new Governments meeting is finally well settled—the day after you went away some person on our part moved a resolution for fixing the times of the elections, &c. and leaving the place to be de[te]rmined hereafter. 1 This resolution for myself I did not like—however those who advocated New York voted for it—and the advocates of Philadelphia against it, and the question was lost. Soon after they proposed to move a like resolution—but gave it up. Last Tuesday Arnold arrived from Rhode Island, 2 and in formed that his Colleague would be on in a few days. New Jersey as sembled approved of the Conduct of her Delegates—& information was received that the people of Charleston did the same as to the South Carolina Delegates. There is a federal Legislature now in Ses sion in Pennsyla. A new one is soon to be chosen—and in this the federalists I understand, are apprehensive the other party will prevail. Considering all these circumstances the advocates for Philadela. con cluded that it was best to give up their opposition and this day the re solves were unanimously passed and with N. York for the place of meeting &c. 3 Brother Otis is not yet arrived but we expect him every hour—he was, I am informed, at Newport this day week. Delaware and Maryland are absent—Mr. Wingate and myself set out for Massa, next week. We have chosen the three Commissioners for settling the Ac counts—Mr. Baldwin, Genl. Irvine and John Taylor Gilman. 4 Mr. Jack-
