362 September 13, 1788 son came near being elected two or three times—but, as I something expected, there was too great a combination among the seven or eight non claiming States, as they are called, to admit of Virginia or Mas sachusetts having a man—these Are considered as the two largest claiming States. With sentiment of esteem & friendship, Your humble Servant, N. Dane RC (MHi: Sedgwick Papers). Addressed: “Honorable Theodore Sedgwick Esqr., Stock- bridge, Massachusetts." 1 For this September 4 motion by Thomas Tudor Tucker, see JCC, 34:495—97. 2 According to the journals, Peleg Arnold also attended on Monday September 8. JCC, 34:501-2. 3 See JCC, 34:522-23; andjohn Brown to John Smith, July 9, note 4. 4 See Charles Thomson to the Accounts Commissioners, this date. Nicholas Gilman to John Langdon Sir New York September 13th 1788. I do myself the honor to transmit herewith, an ordinance of Congress for putting in motion the new System of government 1 —and have the pleasure to observe, that, although a difference in sentiment, respecting the place of meeting has been productive of animated de bates and has occasioned some delay—yet it finally passed without a dissentient voice or the least apparent animosity. This day has also compleated the Election of the Commissioners for settling the na tional accounts agreeably to the ordinance of May 1787. 2 The Board consists of General William Irvine of Pennsylvania, Mr. J. T. Gilman of New Hampshire and Mr. Abraham Baldwin of Georgia. Enclosed also are two resolutions of the Convention of North Car olina transmitted to Congress by their President—one of which shews the sense in which that body considers their act respecting the pro posed plan of government and their determination to adhere to the Union. 3 With the greatest Respect, I have the Honor to be, Sir, Your Excel- lencys Most obedient and Most Humble Servant, N. Gilman RC (Nh-Ar: State Papers, Revolutionary Correspondence). 1 See Charles Thomson to the States, this date. 2 See Charles Thomson to the Accounts Commissioners, this date. 3 For this August 1 resolution, which is in “Certificates of Ratification of the Constitu tion and Bill of Rights” (M338, DNA microfilm), and the debate on its adoption, see N.C. Slate Records, 22:16-33.
