378 September 19, 1788 I had some expectation of finding you in NY but am rejoiced you have better business and can attend to it without painful separation from your family. I think the business of the present Congress is closed or nearly so but you mentioned and so thinks Mr Dane that our representation had best be kept up; If you will be kind eno to take the opinion of the members of Assembly & communicate it will oblige me. I have no business unfortunately, to call me or employ me at home, at the same time should be ashamed to tarry here and receive pay merely because I am chosen. Perhaps seven States may be represented most of the time or perhaps eight & there may be less than seven, at any rate should be obliged by the candid opinion of my judicious friends. Enclosed is the paper of the day and a letter from the post office. I conversed Doctr Dexter & perfectly satisfied him the receipts ought to be exchanged as proposed in regard to Mrs Lincoln, Arid shall thank you for attention to the business when you go to Boston. I think you will find I have only a Mortgage of half Atwaters place, The record will shew. I have not the deed here. My Compliments to your Lady & am Your most huml Sert, Sam A Otis RC (MHi: Sedgwick Papers). Addressed: “The Honorable Theodore Sedgwick, Stock- bridge, Massachusetts. Free Sam. A. Otis.” Postmarked: “N-York Sep 19. Free.” James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir New York Sepr. 21. 1788 Being informed of a circuitous opportunity to France I make use of it to forward the inclosures. 1 By one of them you will find that Congress have been at length brought into the true policy which is de manded by the situation of the Western Country. An additional resolu tion on the {secret journal} 2 puts an {end to all negotiation with Spain} referring the subject of a {treaty after this} assertion {of right to the Missisipi to the new government}. 3 The communication in my last will have shewn you the {crisis of things} in that {quarter a crisis} however not particularly {known to Congress} and will be a {key to} some of the {Kentucky toasts in the Virginia gazette}. 4 The Circular letter from the New York Convention has rekindled an ardor among the opponents of the federal Constitution for an immediate revision of it by another General Convention. You will find in one of the papers inclosed the result of the consultations in Pensylvania on that subject. 5 Mr. Henry and his friends in Virginia enter with great zeal into the scheme. Govemour Randolph also espouses it; but with a wish to prevent if possible danger to the article which extends the power of the Government to internal as well as external taxation. It is observable that
