384 September 22,1788 make for it which you will see in the N York Daily Advertiser for 17th Inst., a Copy of which I have inclosed to Mr. Collins. Be assured that I am with the utmost Regard, Dr sir, Your most obedt Servt., Hu Williamson ENCLOSURE The State of North-Carolina, by not adopting the new Constitution, is lately become the subject of much criticism and censure. In this in stance, having done what is supposed to be wrong, it is hardly admit ted that ever she did any thing that was right. We are told that during the war, her exertions were trifling—that she had never contributed to the national expence—and that she now refuses to confederate, from a desire to promote the fraudulent tender of paper money. Charges against the unpopular are usually listened to with avidity, but happily none of these charges are well founded, however current they are in circulation. During the whole of the late war, whenever the neighbouring states were invaded, North-Carolina was sure to send them assistance. We have seen in the course of one campaign, six or seven thousand men of the North-Carolina militia, in one of the neighbouring states, or on their march to its relief; and she now counts three or four thousand of her citizens who fell a sacrifice in Georgia or South-Carolina, to their zeal for the safety of the Union. We say nothing of her continental line, nor of those who fell within the state while the enemy pervaded every part of it. Is it probable that such armies were supported without money? Surely not. But North- Carolina has uniformly paid and supported her own militia, though they were in the continental service, and she has furnished provisions to a considerable part of the continental troops in the Southern armies. Who has paid for the vast stores that have been consumed by such bodies of armed men? In other states, commissioners have been appointed to setde the claims of individuals against the United States, and certificates for many a million, have been issued by those com missioners; but no such officers have had occasion to setde accounts in North-Carolina, because the state has taken upon itself all the debts that were due to her citizens by the Union, except a finall bal ance that was due to her continental line. These debts have amounted to several millions. Some part is already paid—there is a large balance remaining. From the public accounts it would appear, that in the year’s 1782 and 1783, North Carolina had paid nothing to wards the specie requisitions, while South-Carolina had paid her quota, but this is a difference only in appearance—for the state last mentioned, has a specie credit for all supplies furnished the army from the beginning of 1782, while North-Carolina, that furnished large supplies, stands without any credit, because she has not brought up her accounts. For several years North-Carolina has been oppressed by discharging the debts she had assumed to her continental line,
