386 September 22, 1788 post on goods imported into this state, and appropriate the money arising therefrom to the use of Congress.” It was also on the same day “Resolved unanimously, That it be recommended to the general assem bly to take effectual measures for the redemption of the paper cur rency, as speedily as may be consistent with the situation and circum stances of the people of this state.” These acts afford the clearest proof that the Convention of North Carolina was not actuated by the dishonest spirit of paper money. They are also in proof that she wishes to co-operate with the union, and hold herself in readiness to confed erate whenever certain steps are taken, which may readily be taken without her assistance. If it shall be urged that she might now confed erate without any danger, and that her efforts would be of use to other states, whose interest is nearly the same, the writer confesses that he is of the same opinion. He thinks that some alterations which equally af fect the several parts of the union, will certainly be made, because the spirit of a nation is not to be resisted. But there are two or three alter ations which respect the southern states, that they may have a greater security against illiberal or oppressive combinations; these alterations he suspects will not be made, because the most trifling seeming advan tage is seldom relinquished; but he apprehends no danger from the consequence. The evils which North-Carolina apprehends are of such a nature, the measures would be in themselves so iniquitous, and so abhorrent to the feelings of every southern man, that despotism itself would hardly attempt them, and all its arts and auxiliaries would never be able to put them in force. Be this as it may, in all abstract questions of this sort concerning the expediency of measures, people are apt to differ, and North-Carolina in the present case has chanced to differ from her sister states; but notwithstanding of such difference, it should be remembered that she has hitherto been second to few of the states in substantial attempts to serve the nation. Her late conduct is free from every charge of selfishness or dishonesty, and we are bound to believe that she is determined to support the Federal Union. September 16 A Republican. RC (NhD: Iredell Papers). Enclosure reprinted from the September 17 issue of the New York Daily Advertiser. 1 See Charles Thomson to the States, September 13. 2 That is, No. 7 of the amendments proposed by the North Carolina ratifying conven tion August 1, “That no commercial treaty shall be ratified without the concurrence of two-thirds of the whole number of the members of the senate: And no treaty, ceding, contracting, or restraining or suspending the territorial rights or claims of the United States, or any of them, or their rights or claims to fishing in the American seas, or navi gating the American rivers shall be made, but in cases of the most urgent and extreme necessity; nor shall any such treaty be ratified without the concurrence of three-fourths of the whole number of the members of both houses respectively.” Certificates of Ratifi cation of the Constitution and Bill of Rights, M338, DNA microfilm.
