September 24, 1788 387 Abraham Yates to William Smith D friend 1 New York 22 Sep 1788 I have your favour of the 17th before me. In Respect to the New government We exactly agree in Opinion. The case now is Simple. All agree that Amendments are Indispensably necessary—And Where We had it in our Own power before, the Convention have transferred it to the union at Large And We now cant get the Amendments unless % of the States first agree to a Convention and as Many to agree to the Amendments—And then % of the Several Legislatures to confirm them. That this will be an uphill Affair You may see When you call to Mind that Congress lately had ten Weeks before they Could Agree where the New Government Was to meet. But so it is And We must make the best of it. Our only safety now is in geting the Amendments Confirmed. I mean to try for it and I believe the first thing Necessary will be to pass a Law to Inhibit the State officers (the Legislative, Exec utive and Judicial) from takeing the Oath to support the New govern ment untill our amendments have been Confirmed in due form. My Next Will contain More upon this Subject. I have no time (your son goes off to Manor) than to add that I Remain your sincere frind and Humble Servt. Abm. Yates Jun. RC (NCmM: Smith Collection). Addressed: “To William Smith, Esq. at the Manner of St. George, Long Island.” 1 William Smith (1720-99) was a former Suffolk County judge, 1771-75, member of several provincial congresses, 1775-77, and a New York senator from the Southern Dis trict, 1777-83. Doc. Hist, of the First Federal Elections, 3:203. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear friend New York Sepr. 24. 1788 I have been favd. with yours of the 12th instant. 1 The picture it gives of the state of our Country is the more distressing as it seems to ex ceed all the known resources for immediate relief. Nothing in my opinion can give the desired facility to the discharge of debts, but a reestablishment of that confidence which will at once make the credi tor more patient, and open to the solvent debtor other means than bringing his property to market. How far the new Government will produce these effects cannot be yet decided, But the utmost success that can be hoped from it, will leave in full force the causes of inter mediate embarrassment. The additional pressure apprehended from British debts, is an evil also for which I perceive at present no certain remedy. As far however as the favorable influence of the new Govt.
