September 26, 1788 389 RC (NjMoHP: Park Collection). 1 Wadsworth also wrote brief notes to his son Daniel and to his wife Mehitable on September 21 and 23, respectively. And he wrote to his daughter Harriet and to Daniel again on September 25 and 28. Wadsworth Papers, CtHi. James Madison to John Brown Dear Sir New York, Sepr. 26, 1788. I have been duly favored with yours of the 26th ulto. from Pittsburg. 1 I believe you are already pretty well acquainted with my ideas of Government so far as they vary from the plan chalked out by Mr. Jefferson. But in compliance with your request on that subject I will take the first convenient occasion of explaining them in writing. The delay cannot I presume be material as the formation of a Govern ment for Kentucky must already be concluded, or suspended for rea sons which will not cease immediately. On the other subject, which employed our confidential conversation just before your departure, you are also possessed of my sentiments. 2 It has been frequently since in my mind as its importance made unavoidable, and the first impres sions have been in no degree weakened by my reflections. Having no cypher concerted with you it would perhaps Ire improper to commit my thoughts to a letter which is to pass through so precarious a con veyance. It will be sufficient to say in general that I anticipate every po litical calamity from the event which was for the first time suggested to my contemplation; and that I cannot but persuade myself that it will by degrees be viewed in all quarters, as no less unnecessary than it cer tainly is critical and hazardous. Besides a variety of considerations which encourage this persuasion, and which being well known need not be mentioned, I will add with pleasure the two following resolu tions lately passed in Congress, which wear a very different aspect from some former proceedings, and which I sincerely believe are the result of the real opinions which now prevail on the subject: 3 In Congress, Sepr. 16, 1788 On the report of the Committee &c. to whom was referred the re port of the Secry. of F. Affairs on a motion of the Delegates of North Carolina stating the uneasiness produced by a report “that Congress are disposed to treat with Spain for the surrender of their claim to the navigation of the River Mississippi” and proposing a Resolution in tended to remove such apprehensions: Resol d. that the said report not being founded in fact the Dele gates be at liberty to communicate all such circumstances as may be necessary to contradict the same & to remove misconceptions.
