390 September 26, 1788 Resol’d, that the free navigation of the River Mississippi is a clear and essential right of the United States & ought to be considered and supported as such. The terms of the last Resolution, and particularly the word essential, which was not inserted with[ou]t attention to its force, mark in the strongest mann[er the l]ight in which the subject is now regarded. In addition to these acts, is another entered on the secret journal, but tacitly allowed to be confidentially communicated, which explicitly for bids any further negociation with Spain, and hands over the business with this assertion of right, to the ensuing Government. We have no late intelligence from Europe, nor have I any thing fur ther to add at present than that I am with the sincerest esteem and at tachment your friend & servt. Js. Madison Jr RC (NNPM: Gilder Lehrman deposit). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:266-67. 1 See ibid., pp. 242-43. 2 See Madison to Thomas Jefferson, August 23, note 2. 3 Cf. JCC, 34:534-35. See also Madison to Jefferson, September 21, note 3. James Madison to George Washington Dear Sir New York Sepr. 26. 1788 I subjoin two resolutions lately taken by Congress in relation [to] the Mississippi, which I hope may have a critical and salutary effect on the temper of our western Brethren. 1 In Congress Sepr. 16. On report of the Committee &c to whom was referred the Report of the Secy, for For. Affairs on a motion of the Delegates of North Car olina, stating the uneasiness produced by a Report “that Congress are disposed to treat with Spain for the surrender of their claim to the navigation of the River Mississippi” and proposing a resolution in tended to remove such apprehensions, Resolvd. that the said Report not being founded in fact, the Dele gates be at liberty to communicate all such circumstances as may be necessary to contradict the same and to remove misconceptions. Resolvd. that the free navigation of the River Mississippi is a clear and essential right of the United States, and that the same ought to be considered and supported as such. In addition to these resolutions which are not of a secret nature, an other has passed arresting all negociations with Spain, and handing over the subject thus freed of biass from any former proceedings, to the Ensuing Government. 2 This last Resolution is entered on the se cret journal, but a tacit permission is given to the Members to make a confidential use of it. 3
