September, 1788 395 the number of Candidates, equal to the number of Representatives the State has a Right of sending, that shall have the highest number of votes are to be considered as choosen, whether they have a majority of the whole or not. In the same manner will the electors of the Presi dent be choosen. This is called, electing by Pluralities. I am going to dinner, my dear, adieu, yours most affectionately, Geo. Thatcher RC (MHi: Thatcher Papers). 1 For Pennsylvania’s first federal elections, see Doc. Hist. First Federal Elections, 1:229-37, 281-92. Alexander Hamilton to George Washington Dear Sir, New York September 1788 1 Your Excellency’s friendly and obliging letter of the 28th Ulto. came safely to hand. I thank you for your assurance of seconding my appli cation to General Morgan. The truth of that affair is, that he pur chased the watch for a trifle of a British soldier, who plundered Major Cochran at the moment of his fall at York Town. 2 I should be deeply pained my Dear Sir if your scruples in regard to a certain station should be matured into a resolution to decline it; though I am neither surprised at their existence nor can I but agree in opinion that the caution you observe in deferring an ultimate de termination is prudent. I have however reflected maturely on the sub ject and have come to a conclusion, (in which I feel no hesitation) that every public and personal consideration will demand from you an acquiescence in what will certainly be the unanimous wish of your country. The absolute retreat which you meditated at the close of the late war was natural and proper. Had the government produced by the revolution gone on in a tolerable train, it would have been most ad viseable to have persisted in that retreat. But I am clearly of opinion that the crisis which brought you again into public view left you no al ternative but to comply—and I am equally clear in the opinion that you are by that act pledged to take a part in the execution of the gov ernment. I am not less convinced that the impression of the necessity of your filling the station in question is so universal that you run no risk of any uncandid imputation, by submitting to it. But even if this were not the case, a regard to your own reputation as well as to the public good, calls upon you in the strongest manner to run that risk. It cannot be considered as a compliment to say that on your accep tance of the office of President the success of the new government in its commencement may materially depend. Your agency and influence will be not less important in preserving it from the future attacks of its
