October 1, 1788 399 George Thatcher to Sarah Thatcher Dear Sally, City of New-York 1 October 1788. If it affords you any pleasure to hear of my being home-sick, this must be a most gratefull epistle, for it will tell you the news—and I declare it tells the truth, that I am very home-sick—never more so in my life, and have been so for several days; upon the whole I think it in creases, notwithstanding my endeavour to put home out of my mind. But this endeavour, I find very much resembles good people’s at tempting to comfort and console one another under heavy afflic tions—it only makes home so much the more charming, and absence the more irksom. This is a cold, cloudy, day. I have got a fire in my chamber. I hate to step out; but still I had rather be seting by our own fire at Biddeford with the family about us. In mine of yesterday, or the day before I de sired you not to write me after the eighteenth of this month; if I had requested you not to write me again after the receipt of that Letter, it would have been as well, for I am doubtfull whether I shall be here to the end of this month. I told you there was an addition going to be made to the Building Congress now sets in. Twenty or thirty people are daily to work upon this; and the house we now set in must, immediately be unroofed— And Congress must of course adjourn to some other house for the present. There is none where they can be very well accommodated, And I should not wonder if an adjournment without day should take place. If this should be the case you may look for me some time in this month. According to my plan you will now call for the news, & politics. The southern mail arrived to day about twelve, & brings account of the Pennsylvania election, which was yesterday at Philedelphia. Robert Morris & William McClay were choosen federal Senators for that State. 1 The former lives in the City of Philadelphia—and is the great est Merchant, perhaps, in all America. He was for several years Fi nancier-General of the United States, in which Office, he acquired im mense Riches—whether honesdy or dishonestly—is not for you or me to determine, nor is it of any consequence to us now. And it may be enough to regulate his future Conduct for him to know, which I be lieve he does, that the people in general think pretty independently upon this subject; and three to one dont hesitate to say, in speaking of his wealth, that ill-gotten Riches are of short duration. Wm. McClay, the other Senator, was originally a Lawyer—he lives now on a large Farm upon the River Susquehanna about one hun-
