400 October 1, 1788 dred & ten or twenty miles from Philadelphia; he is a member of Council in that State; and highly respected by the Landed interest, as Morris is by the mercantile. I hope to be able, in my next, to give you a more particular detail of these two Senators—their Characters—and the views of the parties that choose them. It is an object with me to acquire as accurate a knowledge, as possible, of the Members of the first Congress under the new Constitution. Adieu, my dear—the first part of this Letter will please you—& the latter our friends, Silas, Hill, &c &c. Geo. Thatcher RC (MHi: Thatcher Papers). 1 See Doc. Hist. First Federal Elections, 1:293, 298, 405. Hugh Williamson to Samuel Johnston Sir public New York 1st Octr. 1788 1 The Delegates have more than once recommended to the Legisla ture to adopt more effectual means to establish the various Claims of the State against the Union for Supplies and Services rendered during the late War, from the Desire of relieving the Taxes & Burdens of our fellow Citizens. I continue to have much Reason to suspect that many proper Charges are not stated—that many useful Documents in sup port of our Claims remain to be collected. I shall try to explain my ideas on this Subject that you may be enabled to communicate the same, if they shall appear to deserve Attention. On the last Year Congress passed an Ordinance for setding the Ac counts between the United States and the individual States. This Ordi nance is inclosed and three Commissioners have lately been chosen for settling those accounts; 2 but as the Delegates from States who have no doubtful or unauthorised Accounts (and they are a great majority) were interested in chusing Commissioners in the same Predicament, the Persons chosen are from New Hampshire, Pennsylvania and Geor gia; 3 Those States, as we are informed, do not claim a single Dollar from the Union but what are fully authorised by Acts of Congress, and it is probable that the Commissioners will be very tardy in admitting the Claims of other States, which are unsanctioned by Congress, lest they should thereby increase the Burden of their own States. In this View of the Case we are not to hope for Favours; we can only expect what may be demanded from the cold hand of Justice. What are the Claims that may be established by the State of North Carolina! This Question does not appear to have been fully consid ered. If you will be pleased to consult an Act of Congress of June 3rd
