402 October 1,1788 overlook the Expences of recruiting the continental Line though this Account as I conceive has never been stated in any of our Books. The Eastern States alledge that they have furnished more than their Quota of Men for the continental Service and they have formally claimed an Allowance for every supernumerary according to the Bounty they paid, which towards the End of the War was considerable. It will be recollected that in 1781-2 our State raised men by Draughts for the continental Service, whenever a draughted man hired a substitute he was obliged to pay a considerable Bounty. The Average of such Bounty may be ascertained, and it should be taken for the true Bounty paid for every Recruit. Though some of the Eastern States may have per formed more than their Quota of Duty in the continental Line I con ceive that North Carolina will not be in Arrears when all the continen tal Service performed by her Militia is taken into Account; We certainly shall be ahead of our sister & neighbouring States. Be this as it may, I conceive that North Carolina should be prepared to charge her Bounties in Case they are allowed to any other State. I have said that North Carolina must suffer much Loss in being obliged to raise her Charges according to the number of Militia that shall appear to have been employed in the national Service, but I question whether this mode of raising an Account is not preferable to the other Plan that seems to be in Contemplation, as subject to fewer Losses. If we have recourse to the general Mass of Accounts as settled, and take our Charges from the Books of the Comptroller, I take for granted that no Account will be admitted but such as are clearly continental in distinc tion from State Charges; but I am taught to believe that many of the Accounts, perhaps half of them, though properly continental, bear no distinguishing marks by which it can be clearly determined that they were raised for continental Service. This must occasion much Loss, but it is farther alledged that the Accounts of a considerable Part of our Citizens have been settled under great loss by Depredation in such manner that less than fiv6 Shillings Specie has been allowed for an hundred Weight of flour and other Things in Proportion. If our Supplies shall be charged to the Union in this manner one Loss mul tiplied into the other will hardly leave a fourth Part of the proper Credits. . You have seen how complicated and numerous the Claims are which our State may adduce against the United States properly sanc tioned by Resolves of Congress, but no small share of Diligence and Abilities will be necessary, fully to investigate and illucidate those sev eral Charges. Would it not be proper to direct the Comptroller or some other Person who shall acquire a perfect Knowledge of the Ac counts and Services of the State and shall be possessed of all the Jour nals, Letters, Papers and other Documents that may help to explain this Subject to attend the Continental Commissioners while they are settling Accounts—that he may explain and support the sundry
