October 2, 1788 405 an Hour to personal Service or private Amusements that could have been employed in serving the Public. The Subject is before you, I take it to be one by which the Happi ness of our fellow Citizens may be greatly affected, but you are the best Judge of the measures that may be most proper for discovering or collecting sufficient Documents by which we may be enabled to ex plain and substantiate all our Charges against the United States. I have the Honour to be, with the utmost Regard, Sir, Your most obedient and very hble Servant, Hu Williamson RC (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Papers). 1 Williamson also wrote the following letter to Governor Johnston on September 26: “A Merchant in this City called on me yesterday respecting the Tobacco advertised be longing to Nth. Cara. I could tell him nothing about it & he could not as he said make any Offers because he is uninformed. He wished me to mention his Name as an Expec tant. He is a Mr. Coster a Dutch Merchant. “He wishes to know where the Tobacco is to be delivered. Is it all at one Place or how many Hhds are at each Place and at what Places are they? Is it to be subject to reinspec tion? Are the buyers to be permitted to examine the Weights by others made by a Stan dard? for the N Car. Weights are every where ill spoken of. “If I shall be enabled to answer the above Questions, Gentlemen will be ready to make their Offers.” Governors’ Papers, Nc-Ar. 2 See Charles Thomson to the Accounts Commissioners, September 13. 3 That is, John Taylor Gilman, William Irvine, and Abraham Baldwin 4 See JCC, 27:542. 5 Enclosure not found, but for the September 30 report of the committee “appointed to enquire fully into the department of finance,” of which Williamson was a member and whose examination of “the Receipts and Expenditures of the Federal Treasury” from 1784 to 1788 provided the substance of his present preoccupations, see ICC, 34:554-70. George Thatcher to Nathan Dane My friend, City of New-York 2 October, 1788 Tho ‘tis but two, or three days since I wrote you 1 I cannot omit, this post, to inform you of the Pennsylvania Election of Senators. This come on this week a Tuesday. The City party strove hard to command the Election & held up Morris and our loquacious Armstrong. The Country party was wiling the Trading Interest should have one choice; but they thought the Country was entitled to the other. Thus the City did not like; but held up Armstrong to the Country Interest. However after the usual manoeuvering, on such occasions, Morris and William McClay on the Susquehanna were chosen. The Latter I am told is a good man, most esteemed by the Country. He was originally a Lawyer, and is now one of their Executive Council—And a man of great Landed property. 2
