October 7, 1788 411 John Armstrong, Jr. to Alida Livingston 7th Octob. 1788. New York. I wrote yesterday but by an unknown hand. Edward was to send the letter. I suppose it will have a water passage and as I know that to be somewhat doubtfull I write again to-day. I hope this days post will be kinder to me than that of Saturday last. Don’t however beleive that any retaliation mix’d itself with the cause of my not writing on Sunday. The history of that omission will be it’s apology. More eager to hear, than to speak—More sollicitous to gratify myself in learning something from you, than to gratify you in telling you anything of myself, off I set to Edwards, & as I told you yesterday, waited there impatiently ‘till 8 OClock—heard nothing, & miss’d the post-hour. With my colleagues would determine the time of my going up to Clermont. I should have added the nature of these arange- ments, for this will shew you how little they depend upon myself & will account for any excess of the time I have given myself to be in this place. ’Tis among the number of good offices done me by my Colleagues that for 6 Months past they have most industriously propagated a be lief that I had renounc’d Pennsylva. & her interests & had in fact be come quite a New Yorker. As evidence of this they added that I never was with Congress. Now tho’ utterly false & tho’ by this time treated as such in Pennsylva. yet it is the effect of even a suspicion of this kind to quicken my sense of public duty & to lead me by every possible means to demonstrate that under any circumstances I can never either ne glect or betray the trust committed to me. The arangement then to which I alluded was not that of private confidence, (which must be at an end between us) but of public agreement—that in short, they would assent to an adjournment or tacit dissolution of the body. This is I find agreeable to others & must at all events happen in th[ree] weeks from this time. I c[an] communicate these facts only as [th]ey may explain my situation, & account fo[...] longer absence than you might else expect from me. I am perhaps more uneasy about this than I ought, and certainly more than I should, were my pleasure in the in terview less than I’m sure it will be. But I have my resource in one of your earliest maxims—“that this Life was a life of sacrafice & that the sooner We beleiv’d it—the readier would we submit to the crosses that await us.” Under any circumstances I am my dear Alida your’s most Affy., J Armstrong jr. RC (John Armstrong Papers, Rokeby Collection, Barrytown, N.Y.).
