412 October 8,1788 Benjamin Contee to Levi Hollingsworth Dr Sir New-york 8th Octo. [17] 88 If you find still a great difficulty in cash for the Bills, please forward to me. I think from 4 @ 5 in specie may be had here. Mr W. Hammond at Balto had three or four hundred pounds. I write him if no cash to be had there—and indeed I believe it is scarcer there even than in Phila, to forward to you which please indorse & send on to me. I imagine Mr Hammond is not known here so as that his indorsemnt wd obtain. We [hear] nothing very late from Europe except what is contained in the papers. I find the New yorkers are making a considerable addition to the City Hall for the accommodation of the new Congress. It is said three or four thousand pounds are allready subscribed to make the new building—it is easy to see what this is meant to lead to. I am, sr, yr Obt Servt, Ben. Contee RC (PHi: Hollingsworth Papers). James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir New York Octr. 8. 1788 Herewith inclosed are a letter for yourself forwarded to my hands from General Washington, and two others for the Marquis, one from the same quarter, the other from myself. 1 I put both the last under cover to you, not knowing what regard may be due to Newspaper au thority, that the Marquis is under the open displeasure of the Court, and may therefore be the less likely to receive letters thro’ any other channel. Sometimes the report runs that he is in the Bastile; at an other that he is at the head of a revolt in some one of the Provinces. 2 My last letters have followed each other so quickly and the last of all is of such recent date, 3 that this opportunity by a gentleman going to France, enables me to add little to what has already communicated. The result of the Meeting at Harrisburg was the latest event worthy of notice at the date of my last. Nothing has since taken place in relation to the New Government, but the appointment of Mr. Robt. Morris, and a Mr. McClay, to represent Pennsylvania in the Senate. A law has also passed in that State providing for the election of members for the House of Reps, and of electors of the President. The Act proposes that every Citizen throughout the State shall vote for the whole number of members allotted to the State. This mode of election will confine the
