416 October 9,1788 I enclose you a copy of the resolution of Congress, & am With great respect, Your Most Obedient & very humble servant, John Armstrong jr. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Addressed: “Gen. Muhlenberg, V. Pres." 1 That is, “An Act Directing the Time, Places and Manner of Holding Elections for Representatives of this State in the Congress of the United States and for Appointing Electors. . .,” adopted October 4. The Statutes at Large of Pennsylvania from 1682 to 1801, 17 vols. (Harrisburg: State Printer, 1908), 13:140-45, Chapter MCCCLXXIII. 2 That is, the resolution for implementing the new government under the Constitu tion, for which see JCC, 34:522-23. 3 Armstrong’s suspicion of such a deviation was unfounded. Alexander Hamilton to Theodore Sedgwick [New York, October 9, 1788] I thank you My Dr. Sir for your obliging congratulations on the event 1 towards effecting which your aid as a joint labourer was so es sential. I hope experience may show that while it promotes the inter est of this place it will not be incompatible with public good. We are making efforts to prepare handsome accommodations for the session of the new Congress. On the subject of Vice President, my ideas have concurred with yours, and I believe Mr. Adams will have the votes of this state. He will certainly, I think, be preferred to the other Gentleman. 2 Yet, cer tainly, is perhaps too strong a word. I can conceive that the other, who is supposed to be a more pliable man may command Antifoed- eral influence. The only hesitation in my mind with regard to Mr. Adams has arisen within a day or two; from a suggestion by a particular Gentleman that he is unfriendly in his sentiments to General Washington. Richard H Lee who will probably, as rumour now runs, come from Virginia is also in this state. The Lees and Adams’ have been in the habit of uniting; and hence may spring up a Cabal very embarrassing to the Executive and of course to the administration of the Government. Consider this. Sound the reality of it and let me hear from you. What think You of Lincoln or Knox? 3 This is a flying thought. Yrs. with sincere regard, A Hamilton RC (DLC: Hamilton Papers). 1 Undoubtedly the selection of New York as the location of the government under the new Constitution. 2 That is, John Hancock.
