October 12, 1788 419 Griffin Esqr is the Person who gives me this Information. He says that Mr Brown Came to Virginia very Rich, That he was a Person of no Discretion or ability, That he Spent his Estate in a Wanton Manner & it’s his Opinion That nothing can be got out of his Estate. That the Mode of Recovery of a Judgment Debt is the same as with us by a Scire Facias on the Record Certified by Copies. Instead of News I have Inclosed a Paper of Yesterday on which I had the Minutes taken from President Griffing.... [PS.] Please to Give my Compliments to Col. Edw[. .. ]s.” Dreer Members of Congress Collection, PHi. John Armstrong, Jr. to Alida Livingston Sunday 12th. Octob. 1788..... 1 hand he pours out a thousand good wishes for our mutual & unbroken happiness. It rarely happens that old men are the chosen confidants & companions of young ones; & when it does, ‘tis, per haps, an honor to them both. It argues some analogy of character, whatever may be the difference of years. It is a kind of proof that the old man is neither narrow, nor sour; and that the young one is nei ther dissolute nor frivolous. It even supposes an exchange of quali ties; that the sage borrows some vivacity from the boy, & that the boy remunerates himself by taking some of the gravity & experience of the sage. Remember that I do not mean to apply these observations to the confidence existing between the B. 2 & myself & that I offer them meerly as a Theoretical creed concerning Intimate friendships between very different ages. I dind with Mrs. Lewis on Friday. She and her daughter were well. She gives up all thoughts of going up the river this fall, and begins rather to meditate a retreat from the Country. Winter has shewn itself on this side of the highlands, & Mount Pitt seems among the readiest to submit to it’s authority. Edward & Mary are also well. I am much oblig’d by Mrs. M’s remembrance and good wishes. I will soon I suppose have occasion to make a prayer to Neptune for her—or does she relax, as the Winter advances? & will she now post pone her enterprize ‘till the Spring? I had written thus far when a servant brought me a handfull of let ters—& one of them from you. It was dated as far back however as the 28th Ult. and had follow’d me to & from Philad.—but The date I for got in its escapes; besides, it’s a letter from you, & a picture of yourself on the 28th. I have read it over & over & shall continue to do so ‘till I get another to supplant it. Present me to your mama & all the other such of the Gentlemen as you think proper—& Accept my most sincere & absolute affection. Your J Armstrongjr.
