420 October 12, 1788 RC (John Armstrong Papers, Rokeby Collection, Barrytown, N.Y). 1 Opening page or pages missing. 2 That is, baron Steuben, who lived in the same boarding house with Armstrong in New York. Benjamin Contee to Levi Hollingsworth D r g r New-york 12th Octo [17] 88 I reed. yr. favr. yesterday of the 9th Inst.—and am glad you have made sale of the Bills, so as to prevent the trouble of sending them hither. I hope you will be able to get the notes discounted as you ex pect & to forward the cash speedily. I think with you that the Harmony of the Union requires a more central situation than the present for the seat of our National Govt. & as it [is] an Object of some magnitude, I venture to hope it will early attract the attention of the new Congress. The preperations about to be made for its reception here are considerable, & I wish its continu ance, for some time, may not be attempted as a consideration of in dulgence for the expence incurred to make accommodations. I have the Honor to be, Sir, yr. very Obt. servt., Ben. Contee 1 RC (PHi: Hollingsworth Papers). 1 Contee also wrote a brief letter to Hollingsworth on November 3 to arrange the sale of a £150 bill from “Mr Hammond.” Hollingsworth Papers, PHi. William Irvine to Abraham Baldwin Dear Sir New York Octr. 12th 1788 The inclosed Act will inform you how the business now stands 1 — notwithstanding the shape it has assumed, I think if you were here we might fix matters with the Board in such a manner as you need not wait in Georgia for a formal notification. Mr. Gilman & myself can get notice & be on the spot in two weeks, but months may be spent at your distance & uncertain transportation in the winter season. 2 I think there will not be a Congress this year and I have no longer any busi ness here but to make some arrangement in this affair; under these circumstances I need scarcely tell you that it will be with a degree of im patience I shall wait your arrival. I am Dear Sir, Your Most Obedt. Servant (A Copy)
