428 October 17,1788 powers are granted. 2. because there is great reason to fear that a posi tive declaration of some of the most essential rights could not be ob tained in the requisite latitude. I am sure that the rights of Conscience in particular, if submitted to public definition would be narrowed much more than they are likely ever to be by an assumed power. One of the objections in New England was that the Constitution by pro hibiting religious tests, opened a door for Jews, Turks & infidels. 3. be cause the limited powers of the federal Government and the jealousy of the subordinate Governments, afford a security which has not ex isted in the case of the State Governments, and exists in no other. 4. because experience proves the inefficacy of a bill of rights on those occasions when its controul is most needed. Repeated violations of these parchment barriers have been committed by overbearing ma jorities in every State. In Virginia I have seen the bill of rights violated in every instance where it has been opposed to a popular current. Notwithstanding the explicit provision contained in that instrument for the rights of Conscience it is well known that a religious establish ment wd. have taken place in that State, if the legislative majority had found as they expected, a majority of the people in favor of the mea sure; and I am persuaded that if a majority of the people were now of one sect, the measure would still take place and on narrower ground than was then proposed, notwithstanding the additional obstacle which the law has since created. Wherever the real power in a Govern ment lies, there is the danger of oppression. In our Governments the real power lies in the majority of the Community, and the invasion of private rights is chiefly to be apprehended, not from acts of Govern ment contrary to the sense of its constituents, but from acts in which the Government is the mere instrument of the major number of the constituents. This is a truth of great importance, but not yet suffi ciently attended to: and is probably more strongly impressed on my mind by facts, and reflections suggested by them, than on yours which has contemplated abuses of power issuing from a very different quar ter. Wherever there is an interest and power to do wrong, wrong will generally be done, and not less readily by a powerful & interested party than by a powerful and interested prince. The difference, so far as it relates to the superiority of republics over monarchies, lies in the less degree of probability that interest may prompt abuses of power in the former than in the latter; and in the security in the former agst. oppression of more than the smaller part of the society, whereas in the former 7 it may be extended in a manner to the whole. The differ ence so far as it relates to the point in question—the efficacy of a bill of rights in controuling abuses of power—lies in this, that in a monar chy the latent force of the nation is superior to that of the sovereign, and a solemn charter of popular rights, must have a great effect, as a
