October 17, 1788 429 standard for trying the validity of public acts, and a signal for rousing & uniting the superior force of the community; whereas in a popular Government, the political and physical power may be considered as vested in the same hands, that is in a majority of the people, and con- sequendy the tyrannical will of the sovereign is not [to] be controuled by the dread of an appeal to any other force within the community. What use then it may be asked can a bill of rights serve in popular Governments? I answer the two following which though less essential than in other Governments, sufficiently recommend the precaution. 1. The political truths declared in that solemn manner acquire by de grees the character of fundamental maxims of free Government, and as they become incorporated with the national sentiment, counteract the impulses of interest and passion. 2. Altho’ it be generally true as above stated that the danger of oppression lies in the interested ma jorities of the people rather than in usurped acts of the Government, yet there may be occasions on which the evil may spring from the lat ter source; and on such, a bill of rights will be a good ground for an appeal to the sense of the community. Perhaps too there may be a cer tain degree of danger, that a succession of artful and ambitious rulers, may by gradual & well-timed advances, finally erect an independent Government on the subversion of liberty. Should this danger exist at all, it is prudent to guard against it, especially when the precaution can do no injury. At the same time I must own that I see no tendency in our governments to danger on that side. It has been remarked that there is a tendency in all Governments to an augmentation of power at the expence of liberty. But the remark as usually understood does not appear to me well founded. Power when it has attained a certain degree of energy and independence goes on generally to further de grees. But when below that degree, the direct tendency is to further degrees of relaxation, until the abuses of liberty beget a sudden transi tion to an undue degree of power. With this explanation the remark may be true; and in the latter sense only, is it in my opinion applicable to the Governments in America. It is a melancholy reflection that lib erty should be equally exposed to danger whether the Government have too much or too little power, and that the line which divides these extremes should be so inaccurately defined by experience. Supposing a bill of rights to be proper the articles which ought to compose it, admit of much discussion. I am inclined to think that abso lute restrictions in cases that are doubtful, or where emergencies may overrule them, ought to be avoided. The restrictions however strongly marked on paper will never be regarded when opposed to the de cided sense of the public; and after repeated violations in extraordi nary cases, they will lose even their ordinary efficacy. Should a Rebel lion or insurrection alarm the people as well as the Government, and
