October 17, 1788 433 late Importation of such People. On the last Year others had been Landed to the Eastward in Massachusits. Congress have complained to the British Court concerning the Cargo that was sent from New Providence; Perhaps a greater insult to any Nation could hardly have been offered. On the 13th Inst I wrote you in much Haste a Letter which may not have come to Hand. The Object was to inform you that the Board of Commissioners for settling Accounts between the several States and the Union can hardly be ready to proceed to Business before Feby or perhaps March next. My Information induces me to believe that three or four of the States cannot have given in all their Claims when the Time expires in which the District Commissioners are at Liberty to receive Claims; hence it will follow that those States will desire the Indulgence of more Time. I think it probable that North Carolina may wish for more Time to deliver in her Claims, in this Case the Del egates certainly will not fail to move for such a Resolution on the first Intimation from the State and I presume that a longer Day might readily be obtained. Our Affairs with the Western Indians wear a very gloomey Aspect. The Indians are coming very slowly to a Treaty, about this Time to be held at Muskingum and many of them have sent Word that they shall come Armed. The British at Detroit hearing of this Treaty have been giving the Indians considerable Presents though it was but a short Time since they had given them other Presents uncommonly large. A Party of Indians have lately attacked a Convoy of Provisions on the Wabash, killed ten continental Soldiers & wounded eight; they had some Weeks before that killed several continental Soldiers who were guarding Provisions. The Wabash Indians are daily bringing in Scalps. Genl. St. Clair the Governor of the Western Territory, who is holding the Treaty, has, in pursuance of a Vote of Congress requested of the Executive of Pennsylvania & Virginia to hold 1500 of their Militia in readiness to oppose the Indians & he has written to Congress some days ago that he fears the number mentioned will be insufficient. 3 The British are tampering with the Indians on this Side and the Spaniards have lately, very exceptionably, presumed to hold a Treaty with Indians who live within the Territories of the United States. In this State of Indian Affairs, and considering that there is but a Hand full of national Troops in Service, I think it clear that North Carolina must depend on her own Prudence or her own strength for the Mea sure of Peace that she may enjoy with the neighbouring Indians. I have the Honour to be with the utmost Consideration, Sir, Your most obedient and very hble Servant, Hu Williamson RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1649.5). 1 See Williamson to Johnston, October 1, note 5. 2 See Charles Thomson to the States, September 17. 3 See Williamson to Johnston, October 13, note 4.
