434 October 18,1788 Charles Thomson to John Curwen Si r i New York Oct. 18. 1788 I embrace the first opportunity of transmitting to you the pamphlet which you wished to see. 2 My object in compiling these notes and hav ing them printed was not to acquire fame, but to stimulate some of my intelligent friends in the country to deviate from the common mode of farming and to endeavour by their experiments and example to in troduce a new and better mode of culture to reward the toils of the husbandman. I have therefore no hesitation in exposing my igno rance to one so well acquainted with the subject as you are, hoping that you will keep notes of your practice and favour this country which you have adopted for your own & which you see stands in great want of instruction with an account of your experiments & success. Be pleased to make my compliments to Mrs Curwin & accept the as surance of the respect & esteem with which I am, Sir, Your obedient humble Servt, Cha Thomson RC (Harriton Association, Harriton House, Bryn Mawr, Pa.). Hohn Curwen was one of Thomson’s Harriton neighbors. 2 For Thomson’s pamphlet Notes on Farming, which he had published in New York the previous year, see Thomson to George Morgan, July 28, 1787, note 1. Peleg Arnold to John Collins gj r New York Octr. 20th 1788 I have Inclosed herewith for the Information of your Excellency and the State The Journal of this year to the first Day of this Inst. The Secry. Informs that the part preceding this has been officially Trans- mited. By the resolution of the 20th Sept. 1 you will find an Indent req uisition on the States for the present year. I presume that Indents may be obtained on better Terms at this time then at a future time and that it will be for the Interest of the State to make timely Provision to Discharge her Quota of Indent Requisitions. By the Resolution of the 9 & 13 Sept Three Commissioners are ap pointed in pursuance of the Ordinance of May 7th, 1787, 2 They being Impowered by Said Ordinance to admit claims against the Union that are not Supported by Vouchers (as theren set forth) on prenciples of Equity and Justice. If the State have any Such Claims I Suggest whether it will not be Necessary to appoint some Person having good Information of the Nature of them to attend the Commissioners after they meet in order to State to them the Nature of all Such Claims.
