October 28,1788 443 quency, neglect, or refusal, of one overturns the whole—under the present firm as effectually as if all these declined. 4 I am with great esteem, Dear Sir, Your Obedt. Servant, Copy Wm. Irvine Tr (PHi: Caryl Roberts Irvine Collection). In the hand of William Irvine. 1 Enclosures not found; but for the context of this letter and the business that passed between Irvine and the Board of Treasury, see Irvine to Baldwin, October 12, note 1. 2 Not found. 3 Irvine’s accounts with the Pennsylvania Council indicate that on October 28 he was paid “for his attendance as a Member of Congress until the twenty seventh day of Octo ber 1788 inclusively.” Gratz Collection, PHi. 4 Baldwin returned the following reply to Irvine November 15. “I wrote to our unknown associate Mr. Gilman, immediately on the receipt of your let ter, and requested him to write me, without delay, his determinations, as I should sus pend all mine till I heard from him. I have been ever since with great impatience wait ing his answer, Whether he is playing the politician with us, and means to say nothing till he knows what this assembly does, which is now in session, or whether he was absent on the arrival of his brother, is yet to be explained, for I have not heard a word from him. I came here yesterday in hopes of finding some information from him. It is with great reluctance I put off my journey, but I must know what is to be done, or what is not to be done, before I set out. I have not had time to look round here yet. I observe they are making the old city hall a most pompous seat of federal government, they will not be so cautious in using the word permanent, the next time the subject is discussed. “I am told there is none of our old corps here but the President and Williamson. I will write you again as soon as I have found any thing to say.” Roger Curry Collection, Bloomington, Ind. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My Dear friend Ocr. 28—[17] 88. I inclose herewith two pamphlets on the questions agitated in France. They are written by the Marquis Condorcet, and contain more correct information than has been communicated to the public through any other channel. 1 I inclose also a Gazette containing observations on Manufactures by our acquaintance Mr. T. Coxe. 2 You will probably think them worth handing to the Printer for republication. Another Gazette gives you the current information from Europe. The change in the French Min istry is believed, and is a proof of the critical distress for money which pressed the Court. The public mind seems not to be yet settled on the Vice President. The question has been supposed to lie between Hancock & Adams. The former is far the more popular man in N. England, but he has de clared to his lady, it is said, that she had once been the first in Amer ica, & he wd. never make her the second. On the other hand, Adams has signified, it is said, that he will serve the public in no other office. I
