444 October 28,1788 disbelieve neither of these anecdotes. At the same time it is very possi ble they may be given out for particular purposes. I wish you to give my respects to Mr J. Page, and to let him have the perusal of the Pamphlets after you have used them. Yrs. Afifecly., Js. Madison Jr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rudand), 11:320. 1 Undoubtedly the marquis de Condorcet’s Lettres d’un citoyen des Etats-Unis, a un Franfais, sur les affaires presentes and his Sentimens d’un republican, sur les assemblers provin ciates et les Etats-genereaux. . ., which had been published in Paris and again in Philadel phia in 1788. 2 Tench Coxe’s essay on manufactures had appeared in the Pennsylvania Packet of Oc tober 22 under the pseudonym “An American Citizen” and was reprinted in the Pennsyl vania Gazette for October 29. James Madison to Eliza House Trist New York Ocr. 29 [1788]. At the date of my last on Friday 1 was a week since which I have not reed, and answer, I expected by this time to have been in Philada. My plan has been impeded by several circumstances. The only insupera ble one has been a continued indisposition which has at length termi nated in a complaint which has been promoted by my sedentary life, and which incapacitates me for travelling. 2 I am at present having medical relief, and shall leave this as soon as I can. I calculate on some pretty early day in the approaching week. John will not accompany me, nor probably have much further connection with any corporeal beings; though he enjoys the fallacious hope of being soon recovered, and is fondly persuaded that some litde transitory & variable symptom is the only obstacle to it. He was removed to quarters which will cost me less, where he will be less disturbed & where he will less incom mode others. I have an order for his admission into the Almshouse, but for several reasons I chose rather to submit to the expense, at least for a while, than to avail myself of that resource. I have heard nothing lately from Mr. Randolph. He quits the Gov ernment about this time and goes into the assembly. It is not impossi ble that he may be succeeded by your friend Col. Grayson, though the event will depend on several contingencies. I have heard from Mr. Jef ferson as late as the 12th of August. He was then well and by his si lence leaves it to be inferred that his whole family was so. Adieu, Js Madison Jr RC (NNPM: Gilder Lehrman Collection). 1 Not found. 2 Madison had long been afflicted with hemorrhoids.
