446 October 29,1788 trading for the forty five ton Copper premium upon 300 tons with Jarvis; 6 This the board think themselvs indelicatly used in; And had I noticed it, in the single cursory reading with which I was favored, I should have made my feeble opposition; Because I think the power was strongly implied, & if it was erroneous, I think being an error of Judgment should have been more delicately treated. Inter nos, Hascal is here, 7 he intimates that our state will suffer for want of exertion in our Committe, he has however filed the accounts. Also I had a hint that the ordinance for appointing the three Com missioners, is some how or other so cooked, that the Penobscott busi ness, altho consolidated at £116,000, will be thrown out by that Board. Farther, the Resolve for depreciation passing several days only after our troops first disbanded, we are like to have a dispute about that also. So true is it, in public & in private Concerns, that the free horse is ridden to death. The expenditures of our Board of War, the great disproportion of men are had in the field, The astonishing loss by old money, and want of alertness in bringing forward accts with regularity & in season, will hang like a millstone about the neck of Massachusetts for ages. Two Ideas are impressed upon my mind, upon which I want your opinion, One is, the expediency of assuming the State debts, Another is the appointment of a competent accountant, if such one can be found, acquainted with the business, to advocate our claims before the board. Mr Osgood is again drooping, I think his complaints obstinate. Compliments to all friends from yr most H. Svt, Sam A [Otis] RC (DLC: Dane Papers). 1 The Massachusetts legislature was about to take up proposals for electing senators, representatives, and presidential electors under the new federal Constitution, for which see Doc. Hist. First Federal Elections, 1:476-511. For Rufus King’s candidacy for a Mas sachusetts seat in the new Congress, see ibid., pp. 447—48, 506n, 512—13, 521-24, 571. 2 Otis had been reelected as a delegate to Congress for the following congressional year and signified his acceptance of the appointment in a November 10 letter to the secretary of the Massachusetts Senate, which is in Unpassed Senate Documents, M-Ar. A similar letter of acceptance from Theodore Sedgwick to senate president Samuel Phillips, dated October 30, is also in the same collection. 3 George Thatcher was last recorded attending Congress on October 21. 4 See Hugh Williamson to Samuel Johnston, October 1, note 5. 5 For this board of treasury report on federal receipts and expenditures since Novem ber 1, 1784, see JCC, 34:554-70. For the errors Williamson called attention to, see ibid., pp. 554n.4, 559nn.l-2, 560n.l. 6 Ibid., p. 567. 7 Apparently Jonathan Haskell.
