October 30, 1788 447 John Armstrong, Jr. to Alida Livingston Friday 30th, Octob. [1788] Your letter of the 23d, for which I know not how to thank you either as I ought or as I wish, did not reach me ‘till Wednesday, & then at so late an hour as to prevent my using the post of Thursday in acknowl- eging it’s receipt & if possible in atoneing for my silence. 1 If Alida there was any insincerity in that omission, it was surely of a very venial sort, & may be class’d with those pious frauds that (in all events) have an apology in their object, & (if successfull) a justifica tion in their effect. I know your sensibility—I was persuaded of your affection & I ask’d myself whether I did not owe to the latter some care of the former. Could your sollicitude & sighs have either abated my fever or remov’d my pain, it would have been right to have told them—but as the reverse would have been their effect, I thought (but I may have mistaken) that duty was on the side of silence. In this doubt of my own reasonings as well as in compliance with your wishes my conduct hereafter shall be different, & as I admit your right to know all, it shall be my business to conceal nothing. ’Tis true then that I have been a good deal indispos’d—but not dangerously so. My fever often remitted & sometimes intermitted & all my Other symp toms seem to have been govern’d by that. ’Tis rather unfortunate that the great remedy in all such cases, is no remedy to me, as from some cause or other quite unknown to myself & I beleive quite inexplicable to the faculty, the bark of all things most disagrees with my constitu tion. I have therefore been Obliged to lay it aside & to depend on reg imen, & the (in general) less efficacious applications of Camomile, Vitriol &c. &c. Their operation is slow, but friendly, & already enables me to go abroad (with caution) & to live a litde in society. This too is not without its effect, & join’d to the approach of the cold weather, which has my most hearty Wellcome, will I hope soon enable me to enjoy a pleasure I have so long promis’d myself, & so anxiously wish’d for. Beleive me my dear girl nothing can make me more sollicitous than I am to do away any anxiety of your’s on the score of distance— nor can I possibly have an encreas’d sense of your Mama’s kindness nor of the attentions which in any situation, I should meet with at Clermont. The moment therefore that my physicians pronounce it safe, I shall set out to thank you personally for all your care & kind ness—this I have every reason to hope for in a few days. You now have a most scrupulously exact account of what my indisposition has been, & what it is—& will I hope, like myself, find no room to be alarm’d about it. ’Till I can fix a day for leaving Town, I shall continue to write
