448 October 30, 1788 by every oppertunity, & should you not hear from me thus punctually place it to the account of the post office—not to any relapse into ill ness. I must entreat you to remember this. Jones’s apparent silence had no doubt a strange aspect to Mrs. Montgomery, anxious as she must have been, on the subject of her destiny for the winter. She surely cannot (with all her devotion for the Country of St Patrick) be displeas’d with the manner in which the winds & waves & other circumstances have determin’d it. A spring Voyage will be a thousand times more Agreeable as well as safe; & (with her motives for making any), convenience & pleasure ought to be studied as well as meer security. Sunday 2d Nov., 5 OClock in the Evg. I have waited with much anxiety for a letter from you ‘till this mo ment. The post has but now come in—but I forgive his delay, for he brings me three, (of the 26th, 27th & 30th). By what I wrote on Friday you will find that your’s of the 23d have been receivd. Your Mama’s packet came in time for John. He did not set of[f] till to-day. A word or two in answer to your three favors. My mind would be at ease, were I sure your’s was so. It was the effect of my last letters “to relieve you from pain—to restore you to tranquil ity.” Will you promise that it shall be the effect of this “to releive you from apprehension & to restore you to chearfullness,” also? If an as surance, that my complaint has ceased to be more than troublesome, will accomplish this, I now make it most seriously & sincerely. I this morn ing sent for my Physician to ask him whether he thought I could risque the journey—his answer was that “should the weather continue fine for a few days longer, so far from being dangerous, the journey would be proper, & servicable.” I rode 15 or 16 miles to-day, & am the better for doing so. What I have most to complain of now is the dis agreeable but necessary restriction of diet & exercise. I have appetite but dare not eat, & when the sun refuses to shine, I’m a close prisoner ’till his humor changes. You ask if “business will not prevent my sharing your fire-side [. . .] Winter.” I possitively answer, no. However inconvenient on the score of business—I will share it. But is it determin’d that you stay? And the poor bird is still a Captive. “His wings are clipp’d & he can Neither support himself against famine, nor protect himself against the Hawk.” How fruitfull is Tyranny in apologies for itself—first create an inability to live out of chains, & then Use that inability as an argu ment against striking them off. My curiosity (not my compassion) lead me some days ago to visit two beautiful captives of the same kind. They were the Flamingos of the West Indies. (If Buffon is at the Manor you will find an interesting description of them.) ’Tis a lover & his Mistress—nor has romance anything to exceed his attachment or
