452 November 2, 1788 James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear friend N York Novr. 2. 1788 I reed, yesterday your favor of the 23d Ult. 1 The first countenance of the Assembly corresponds with the picture which my imagination had formed of it. The views of the greater part of the opposition to the federal Government, and particularly of its principal leader, have ever since the Convention, been regarded by me as permanently hos tile, and likely to produce every effort that might endanger or embar rass it. The defects which drew forth objections from many quarters, were evidently of little consequence in the eye of Mr. H—ry. His own arguments proved it. His enmity was levelled, as he did not scruple to insinuate agst the whole System', and the destruction of the whole Sys tem, I take to be still the secret wish of his heart, and the real object of his pursuit. If temperate and rational alterations only were his plan, is it conceivable that his coalition and patronage would be extended to men whose particular ideas on the subject must differ more from his own than those of others who share most liberally in his hatred? My last letter 2 with Col. Carrington’s communications to which it re ferred, will have sufficiently explained my sentiments with regard to the Legislative service under the new Constitution. My first wish is to see the Government put into quiet and successful operation; and to afford any service, that may be acceptable from me, for that purpose. My second wish, if that were to be consulted, would prefer, for reasons formerly hinted, an opportunity of contributing that service in the House of Reps, rather than in the Senate; provided the opportunity be attainable from the spontaneous suffrage of the Constituents: Should the real friends to the Constitution think this preference in consistent with my primary object, as Col. Carrington tells me is the case with some who are entided to peculiar respect; and view my re nouncing it as of any material consequence, I shall not hesitate to comply. You will not infer from the freedom with which these observa tions are made, that I am in the least unaware of the probability that whatever my inclinations or those of my friends may be, they are likely to be of little avail in the present case. I take it for certain that a clear majority of the Assembly are enemies to the Govt, and I have no rea son to suppose that I can be less obnoxious than others on the oppo site side. An election into the Senate therefore can hardly come into question. I know also that a good deal will depend on the arrange ments for the election of the other branch; and that much may de pend moreover on steps to be taken by the Candidates which will not be taken by me. Here again therefore there must be great uncertainty, if not improbability of my election. With these circumstances in view, it is impossible that I can be the dupe of false calculations, even if I were in other cases disposed to indulge them. I trust it is equally im-
