November 2, 1788 453 possible for the result whatever it may be, to rob me of any reflections which enter into the internal fund of comfort & happiness. Popular favor or disfavor, is no criterion of the character maintained with those whose esteem an honorable ambition must court. Much less can it be a criterion of that maintained with ones self. And when the Spirit of party directs the public voice, it must be a little mind indeed that can suffer in its own estimation, or apprehend danger of suffering in that of others. The Sepr. British Packet arrived yesterday, but I do not find that she makes any addition to the Stock of European intelligence. The change in the French Ministry is the only event of late date of much consequence; and that had arrived through several other channels. I do not know that it is even yet authenticated; but it seems to be doubted by no one, particularly among those who can best decide on its credibility. With the utmost affection I am my dear Sir, Yrs. Sincerely, Js. Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:328-30. 1 See ibid., pp. 313-14. 2 Madison is referring to his letter of October 17 rather than that of October 28. James Madison to George Turberville Dear Sir N. York Novr. 2. 1788. Your favor of the 20th Ult. not having got into my hands in time to be acknowledged by the last mail, I have now the additional plea sure of acknowledging along with it your favor of the 24 which I reed, yesterday. 1 You wish to know my sentiments on the project of another general Convention as suggested by New York. I shall give them to you with great frankness, though I am aware they may not coincide with those in fashion at Richmond or even with your own. 2 I am not of the num ber if there be any such, who think the Constitution, lately adopted, a faultless work. On the Contrary there are amendments wch. I wished it to have received before it issued from the place in which it was formed. These amendments I still think ought to be made according to the apparent sense of America, and some of them at least I pre sume will be made. There are others, concerning which doubts are entertained by many, and which have both advocates and opponents on each side of the main question. These I think ought to receive the light of actual experiment, before it would be prudent to admit them into the Constitution. With respect to the first class, the only question is which of the two modes provided be most eligible for the discussion
