December 8, 1788 463 as there may be a defect of personal acquaintance I beg leave to sup ply it by this introduction. My two last were of Ocr. 8 & 17th. They furnished a State of our af fairs as they then stood. I shall here add the particulars of most con sequence, which have since taken place; remembering however that many details will be most conveniently gathered from the conversa tion of Mr. Morris who is thoroughly possessed of American transac tions. Notwithstanding the formidable opposition made to the New fed eral Government, first in order to prevent its adoption, and since in order to place its administration in the hands of disaffected men, there is now both a certainty of its peaceable commencement in March next, and a flattering prospect that it will be administred by men who will give it a fair trial. General Washington will certainly be called to the Executive department. Mr. Adams, who is {pledged to support him} 1 will probably be the vice president. The enemies to the Government, at the head & the most inveterate, of whom, is Mr. Henry, are laying a train for the election of Governour Clinton, but it cannot succeed unless the federal votes be more dispersed than can well happen. Of the seven States which have appointed their Senators, Virginia alone will have antifederal members in that branch. Those of N. Hampshire are President Langdon & Judge Bartlett—of Mas- sachussetts Mr. Strong and Mr. Dalton—of Connecticut Doer. Johnson and Mr. Elseworth—of N. Jersey Mr. Patterson and Mr. Elmer—of Penna. Mr. R. Morris and Mr. McClay—of Delaware Mr. Geo. Reed and Mr. Bassett—of Virginia Mr. R. H. Lee and Col. Grayson. Here is already a majority of the ratifying States on the side of the Constitu tion. And it is not doubted that it will be reinforced by the appoint ments of Maryland, S. Carolina and Georgia. As one branch of the Legislature of N. York is attached to the Constitution, it is not improb able that one of the Senators from that State also will be added to the majority. In the House of Representatives the proportion of antifed eral members will of course be greater, but can not, if present appear ances are to be trusted, amount to a majority, or even a very formidable minority. The election for this branch has taken place as yet no where except in Penna, and here the returns are not yet come in from all the Counties. It is certain however that seven out of the eight, and probable that the whole eight representatives will bear the federal stamp. Even in Virginia where the enemies to the Government form % of the legislature it is computed that more than half the num ber of Representatives, who will be elected by the people, formed into districts for the purpose, will be of the same stamp. By some it is com puted that 7 out of the 10, allotted to that State, will be opposed to the politics of the present Legislature. The questions which divide the public at present relate 1. to the ex tent of the amendments that ought to be made to the Constitution. 2.
