468 January 5, 1789 Mrs. Williamson, 2 who has at this instant been inquiring to whom I am writing, and been informed that I am writing to an inhabitant of Edenton, who is a particular friend, and one of the best men, as well as best lawyers in America, says that either of these circumstances would induce her to present you with her compliments, but all of them united engage her to request that I would present you with a tender of her esteem, &c. Hu. Williamson. MS not found; reprinted from McRee, Iredell Correspondence, 2:248. 1 Following North Carolina’s rejection of the federal Constitution in August, a call for a second state convention was adopted November 30, 1788, although it did not actually convene until November 16, 1789. 2 For Williamson’s recent marriage, see John Dawson to James Madison, January 29., note 7. Robert Barnwell to John Kean P) r gi r New York Jan 10 1789. I did myself the pleasure of writing you sometime ago 1 which letter I hope you have received as it contained the agreable information of the good health of all of your relations and acquaintances whom I knew, since then I have had the satisfaction of being introduced to a number of valuable characters, and amongst them though at the head in my opinion is Mr. Jay, from some cause unknown to my self I had ever entertained the highest estimation of the Ability and Principle of this gentleman. Neither his Official writings nor his conversation gave me room to think this predilection misplaced. The most happy talent in the distribution of his Subjects, the closest reasoning and the most impartial Reports combine to render him the most proper person for the Office which he holds, and on seing him and hearing him speak (the purity of his language excepted) could I believe the transmigra tion of souls. I could readily distinguish the same Spirit and appear ance which belonged to and inspired a Hamden and a Pym. The Politicks of this State are at present particularly interesting. The spirit of Party might be said to rage here. The Senate and house of Representatives, now sitting at Albany, are devided in sentiment upon the mode of choosing Senators and Electors, the Senate have a Foederal majority of four in twelve, the other house an Anti—Foederal majority of eight in thirty two. The latter are for choosing the above- mentioned persons according to the principle of the State Constitu tion. The Senate stickle for the appointment of one Senator and half
