472 January 13,1789 Genl. If there were danger of that I should be against him, but Vir ginias pride, interest & affections will secure her antifederal votes in favor of Gen. W. & render her rejection of him impossible. I have come to believe Mr. Adams’s friends are taking pains to secure his Election. Whatever appears in his favor should be now very sensible and moderate—not calculated for popular impression. I wish to be perfectly unknown 8c unobserved, but I shall not omit to promote him. New York has again clog’d the federal System by suspending her election of Senators & Electors. 1 It is thought by many here the Senate will give way. I doubt it much. The Scene of emotion at Albany is al most as great as that at Poughkeepsie was. It appears probably that Massachusetts will be very long in fixing their Electors 8c Reps, for it seems there must be a Majority of the whole voters. I have reed, a letter from Maryland from wch. I find they want infor mation about the person proposed as V.P. I have answered it as you will suppose. What I mention on this point of the V.P. confine to Mr. Wilson, and request him to say Nothing of me. It is rumored here that the Election for Reps, in South Cara, has not gone very well. Four are said to be lost, but I cannot believe it. My reception here has been polite, respectful and very cordial. A few military men have mentioned the publications with pointed disap probation. I find our Senators & Representatives & the general Conduct of the Cause in Pennsa. extremely agreeable here. The city election for Elec tors seemed to create delight. While several states shew a Jealousy of Pennsa., all seem to esteem 8c rely on her wisdom & strength and to expect much from the Influence of her example. Four States are represented 8c three in part. A Quorum from seven will be here by the 20th—when a president will be chosen. Mr. Wadsworth has been mentioned to me. I have some wishes on this Subject of which more hereafter. We have no European News. Jersey has given us six federalists as electors, & Connecticut has given us federalists as Representatives 8c Electors. That state is much to be relied on. Since the Pennsylvania & Connecticut elections have gone so well it is impossible two thirds can be brought to require a Convention on any dangerous Amendments. I find by accounts just reed, that there is reason to believe 5 of the Massachusets returns will be complete, 8c federal the other three must be tried over again. I wish our papers were a litde milder on the Subject of New York, ft does harm here among the foreign people 8c men in Government. Give this hint to Mr. Brown—and tho our friend Mr. Hall is a chaste printer—it may not be amiss to mention it to him—at the same give my respects to him.
