January 19, 1789 473 I find the Subject of manufactures will require a delicate hand to manage them with the Union at large. I fear the interference of the legislature of Pennsa. will be found necessary to maintain ours at first But say Nothing of this for it will require explanation. 2 With my respectf. comps, to Mrs. R, I am Yr. affecte. friend & Serv, Tench Coxe 3 RC (PPL: Rush Papers). 1 For New York’s failure to elect presidential electors and United States Senators dur ing its 1788-89 legislative session, see Doc. Hist. First Federal Elections, 3:196-97, 217ff 2 Rush’s January 19 reply to Coxe is in the Coxe Papers, PHi. 3 Coxe also wrote a brief business letter on January 21 to “Joseph Clay Esquire Savan nah m Georgia,” enclosing a bill of exchange for $ 1,500 drawn by Abraham Baldwin on Robert Forsyth of Augusta. Coxe Collection, PHarH. Hugh Williamson to Samuel Johnston Dear Sir New York 19th Jany 1789 Yours of the 20th ult did not come to Hand ‘till on the 17th Inst. I consider myself flattered by the additional Proof our State has given of their Confidence in my Disposition to serve them. Certainly the Du ties of an Agent in settling old & intricate Accounts are not so agree able to my feelings as some other Commissions with which I have been honoured by the State, but I conceive that the State is deeply in terested in the faithful Discharge of these Duties and in Cases where the public may be profited by any Service of mine I shall never shun an Office meerly because it is laborious. I shall therefore accept of the Appointment and in Discharge of the same shall try to deserve the ap probation of the State. 1 The general Commissioners of Congress are just arrived in Town & are as I think to enter on the Duties of their Of fice on this day. 2 I hope that no Time will be lost in forwarding the Charges and Vouchers of our State. I have the Honour to be with the utmost Consideration Dear, sir, Your most obedt & very hble Servt., Hu Williamson RC (DLC: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 For the appointment on December 3 of Williamson and Abisha Thomas as agents “to attend the settlement of accounts with the United States,” see the proceedings of the North Carolina General Assembly “begun. . .on the Third Day of November [1788] "Journal of the Senate, p. 35, Journal of the House of Commons, p. 47, DLC(ESR) See also N.C. State Records, 21:511, 571. 2 For the appointment of these three Continental commissioners, see Charles Thom son to the Accounts Commissioners, September 13, 1788. For the oath of office Abra ham Baldwin, John Taylor Gilman, and William Irvine subscribed to January 19, 1789, entering upon their duties as “Commissioners for settling the accounts between the United states and Individual states,” see PCC, item 195, fol. 354.
