480 January 27, 1789 be induced to countenance the constitution the unanimity of the Sen ate would, under present circumstance avail but litde. The election of the President seems likely to be unanimous. It is perhaps the greatest personal point that will ever occur in this Coun try, that it be secure—and I feel the most cordial satisfaction in consid ering it beyond all hazard. The Office of V.P. seems destined for Mr. Adams, who will have nearly all Pennsa, Delaware & New England, probably Jersey. Mr. Rutlege I understand will be pushed by S. Car olina, and Mr Jay who is the only candidate besides that is talked off [of] will have but little support in this Matter left. He appears to have no Views himself. Tho well qualified for more important station than the proper Duties of the VP. render that yet I think it would be wrong to draw him for the Office of foreign affairs. Our treaties are all un formed—he alone knows the whole Negociations—he is among the very few who have been in the way of qualifying themselves for foreign negociation. He is much esteemed in Pennsa. but her votes & influ ence would be exerted against him in the present state of the question on the seat of Government. Mr. Adams is esteemed by the people— has high ideas of Government—is a friend to property—will take the feelings of New England with him—has been used to the forms of leg islative & diplomatic business—he is a man of a pure private Charac ter, & has knowledge & abilities beyond the proper duties of a V.P. which indeed are not very important. He will lose few votes, I think from the North side of Maryland (where also he is seriously thought of) but from an apprehension that he may outrun the genl, or hazard the election of the latter. This tho in my mind a very small hazard in deed I am pleased to observe is foreseen, and will be attended to. Mr. Dawson assures me this letter will reach you if sent to the Office at Fredericksburg which is the Reason of my sending that way. I am with very great truth, dear Sir, yr. respectful & aff. h. Servt., Tench Coxe RC (DLC: Madison Papers). 1 For the Pennsylvania elections for presidential electors, Senators, and Representa tives, see Doc. Hist. First Federal Elections, 1:232-34. 2 Coxe’s reference is to the election of Tristram Dalton in Massachusetts and Robert Morris in Pennsylvania. Ibid., pp. 293, 421-22, 511-12, 746-47. 3 See ibid., 3:6-7, 29, 33. 4 Ibid., 1:770, 783-84. 5 For the Delaware and Maryland elections for United States Senators and Represen tatives, see ibid., 2:74-75, 83-84, 146-54, 209-13. 6 The Virginia House of Delegates had nominated Madison, William Grayson, and Richard Henry Lee “to be ballotted for as Senator to the Congress of the United States,” and the Senate had elected Grayson and Lee on November 8, 1788. Ibid., pp. 280-82. 7 For Madison’s election to the House of Representatives, see ibid., pp. 311-49.
