January 28,1789 481 John Jay to Arthur St. Clair DearSir New York 28Jany 1789 I was a few Days ago honored with Your’s of the 13 of last month. 1 It contains much useful Information, and there is Reason to regret that the federal Government is so circumstanced as not to be in capacity to take the measures which their affairs require. A Sufficient number of Delegates to form a Congress not being con vened, I thought it my Duty to consult those who are here, 2 on the an swer proper to be given to that Part of your Letter which respects Conolly. 3 They are of opinion with me, That a watchful Eye should be kept over him; and if found chargeable with the Practices you men tion (either within yowjurisdiction, or that of one of the States) that he should be apprehended, and delivered to the State in which the of fences may be committed, together with the Evidence of them—but if the offences should be committed within your Jurisdiction, it will be best to detain him until Congress shall give orders on the Subject. There not being any federal Tribunal, nor general Laws for defining and punishing Treason against the united States—nor a congress sit ting, nor likely soon to be convened, are Reasons for leaving such of fenders to the Judicatures of the States in which their offences may be committed, until the new Governmt. shall be in operation. We think it best that your Suspicions and Intentions respecting Conolly, should be kept as secret as possible. The less he is put on his Guard the better; and if he should be apprehended, it would be expe dient to endeavour to take his Papers also. As his apprehension would probably occasion national Inquiries and Discussions, previous Attention should be paid to the obtaining and establishing satisfactory Proof of the facts with which he may be charged. I promise myself the Pleasure of writing to you again by the next Post, 4 and with Sentiments of great Esteem & Regard I am, Dear Sir, Your most obt. & hble Servt, John Jay RC (DLC: Peter Force Miscellany). 1 St. Clair’s December 13 letter is in PCC, item 150, 3:509-16; and Carter, Territorial Papers, 2:166-70. 2 For the states represented at this time, see the preceding entry and John Dawson to James Madison, January 29. 3 St. Clair had reported that Col. John Connolly (ca. 1743-1813), a former Pennsylva nia loyalist and now lieutenant-governor of Detroit, had been sent by Lord Dorchester (Guy Carleton), the governor-general of Canada, “to tamper with the People of Ken tucky and induce them to throw themselves into the Arms of Great Britain, and to as sure them of protection and Support in that Measure—if that cannot be brought about,
