486 January 29,1789 On yesterday the Secretary of foreign affairs laid before the attend ing members of Congress a letter from the Governor of the Western Territory, which containd information interesting to the Union in general and particularly to the state of Virginia. 4 The Gov. writes, that he has information on which he can depend that a Colo Conolly, who renderd himself fully conspicuous during the late war, has lately come from Detroit to Louisville—that the apparent object of his Journey is the settlement of some private accompts, but that he has good reason to believe that he is employd to Lord Dorchester, (from whom he has lately receivd a pension of £200 Stg in addition to his half pay) to in duce the people of Kentucky either to form a Connection [with] Great Britain, or to commit hostilities on the Spaniards—that he has written to a number of persons, and has made some communications to Genl. Morgan. You will readily perceive, sir, that for the want of a Congress and a foederal tribunal, we coud do nothing decisive in this business. We however advisd the Secretary to write to Gov. St. Clair, and to advise him to keep a strict eye over Conolly, and if he found his suspicions well grounded to have him apprehended and delverd to the State in which he shoud be taken—and to be careful to have his papers &c se- curd, as zfwoud probably bring on a national discussion. I doubt not but you before this have receivd the information which I now give, and have taken proper steps to secure Mr. Conolly, if the above mentiond suspicions are well founded. I, however, considerd it as my duty to make the communication especially as I think the busi ness more properly belongs to a state, rather than the Continent— these circumstances will, I trust, render any apology for the length of this letter, unnecessary. It still remains doubtful whether any Senators will the [be] ap pointed by this state; both houses adhering to their principle. They have however divided the state into districts for the choice of mem bers to the lower house, and have not made residence necessary. With sentiments of respect & esteem, I have the honour to be, Yr. Excellencys Most Ob hum Sert, J Dawson. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 See the preceding entry, note 1. 2 Neither the address to Congress from Kentucky’s 7th statehood convention nor Pres. Samuel McDowell’s covering letter are in PCC, but the proceedings of the conven tion, which had met from November 3-10, 1788, and its addresses to Congress and to the Virginia General Assembly were published in John Bradford’s Kentucky Gazette for Saturday, January 30 [i.e., 31st], and Saturday, February 7. They were reprinted in William Littell’s Political Transactions In and Concerning Kentucky, From the First Settlement Thereof, Until It Became an Independent State, in June 1792 (Frankfort, 1806), pp. 103—8. For events surrounding the meeting of the convention, see Patricia Watlington, The Par tisan Spirit: Kentucky Politics, 1779-1792 (New York: Atheneum, 1972), pp. 169-79. 3 For George Morgan’s “treaty with Congress” for two million acres of western land and his negotiations with Spain for the 15-million acre tract called New Madrid, see JCC,
