488 January 31,1789 Mrs Adams & Col Smith can give you a more minute acct of public affairs & particularly of the dispositions of the people of this State, hav ing good information from your friend Mr Jay and others, than it is in my power to communicate. It is however but too notorious that Mr Clintons interest is powerfully exerted to impede the new Govern ment. The Legislature cannot agree upon the mode of chusing Sena tors, nor is it expected they will early be represented in the Senate. Five States only are represented in Congress altho I think it cannot be many days before we have seven & perhaps nine States. You are fre- quendy enquired after & will be soon expected. When I did myself the honor to write you last 1 I took the liberty to solicit your interest for the appointment to be Clerk of the Senate, And as I have encouragment from my friends of success, I hope you will excuse my reiterating the subject. R H Lee Esqr & R Izzard Esqr will as heretofore be much with you in politics, in the choice of men & adoption of measures; To those Gentlemen I am unknown; Could I obtain their voice I flatter myself in addition to my other friends it would give me success. If Sir you approve my views I should feel and at all times acknowledge the obligation if you would further them. 2 But for the unprovoked malice of Mr H, 3 I should have been ap pointed Naval Officer for the port of Boston, The same influence pre- ventd my election for Suffolk District. The Clerkship of either House is no object for a young man, but at any time, & in my circumstances, it would be important, being wholly out of business, & my commercial prospects at an end; However I must leave my pretensions to speak for themselves, & will not be burthensome with importunity. And after compliments to the family & Connexions subscribe with great sincer ity, Sir, Your most obedient & Humble Servt, Sam. A. Otis RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 For Otis’ December 18 letter to Adams, which was written while he was still in Boston, see Doc. Hist. First Federal Elections, 1:569. 2 See Otis to Jeremiah Wadsworth, January 12, note 3. 3 That is, John Hancock. Abraham Clark to the Public Mr. Kollock, New York, February 1, 1789 The following it is desired may find admission into your paper. To a person desirous of passing quietly through life with as little show and parade as possible, wishing rather to deserve esteem, than to obtain applause, any address to the public respecting himself, must be disagreeable, and, in some cases improper; yet in others, not only ex cusable but a duty. A charge, however false, which remains uncontra-
