February 1, 1789 489 dieted is readily believed. Every man in public life must expect to pass through ill, as well as good report, and though his calumniators are often too insignificant to merit a reply, or even occasion any resent ment, yet it may sometimes happen otherwise. At present I am at tacked, not openly in the public prints that I have heard of, but in a secret manner by letters, certificates, &c. sent privately into every part of the state, containing gross misrepresentations, and the most palpa ble falshoods, in order to prejudice the minds of the citizens against me at the coming election, and prevent my being appointed to a con fidential trust: A trust of so much importance to the citizens of New- Jersey, that a diffidence of my abilities to execute it in a proper man ner to their advantage, forbids any attempt of mine to push myself into it. It is however my duty, as well in private as in public life, to re move every unjust and illiberal charge against me, more especially, as in the present case, when coming from persons who, if they had a dis position for it, might render useful services to the community; I need not name them, they are characters well known in Jersey, as is also the cause of their clamours which may be considered as very remote from their regard to the interest of the citizens of the state. Those letters and certificates I have mentioned though intended as private stabs, from their number and circulation are become public and very noto rious. One of their insinuations is that I am antifoederal, and an enemy to the new government. The charge of antifoederalism is of so general and undefined a nature, that had it not been followed by that of an enemy to the government, I should not have thought it worthy of notice, as that epithet is frequently given to all those who dare ven ture to suspect the least defect in the Constitution, in which is in cluded by far the greatest part of the inhabitants of the United States: How far this charge is applicable to me, I leave the impartial public to judge. That I used every means in my power in the different stations I filled, to obtain an efficient government, is well known and cannot be denied. When the plan of the new government appeared, I found it not such as I had wished and expected; I perceived, as I supposed, some parts of it bearing too hard upon the liberties of the people, and giving some unnecessary powers to those who were to administer it: This I never scrupled to mention when my opinion was desired. Notwithstanding my dislike to some parts, considering the situation the United States was in, and the provision made in the Constitution for amendments, I cheerfully gave my assistance to send it to the states for their consideration, 1 judging that New-Jersey, from its local situation and circumstances, could not with propriety reject it, notwithstanding its imperfections; presuming at the same time, that the new Congress would endeavor to amend it as soon as other impor tant business for putting the government into operation would admit. This I yet hope and expect will, in a proper time, be effected in
