February?, 1789 493 Tench Coxe to Benjamin Rush Dear Sir New York Feb. 2d. 1789. I enclose you a letter handed to me by Mr. John Livingston, which he informed me you were to deliver to Mr. McClay. It appears next to certain New York will not appoint Electors. 1 If they have Senators they will possess neither federalism nor mercantile Talents, nor does it appear probable that they will have one mercan tile man in their representation. Thus [in] the execution of the plan of Governmental laws, that there is no danger in cornu [nica] ting com mercial Arrangements to a bare Majority. New England I have some reason to believe will be unanimous for Mr. Adams. Jersey & Maryland are yet undecided about him. They wish no other man, but fear to hazard the General’s election. I con gratulate you on the determination of the Maryland Election. Things look well. I do not fear that we shall have an influential Congress, % federalists. I wish you would suggest to the gentlemen in Government the pro priety of putting the inside of the state house in repair & of furnishing such Apartments as want it. Would it be possible to take out the floor between the Assembly Chamber & the room above so as to give it an airy appearance & to admit of a Gallery or pillars. Please to ascertain the height of the ceilings of each room. The house of reps, room here is 36 feet, & 2 more into the vault is 38 feet high. Over the Gallery which is only on the South side, is another Gallery for the Senate. I wish you would talk to some of our most active & zealous Gentlemen at once. Our citizens ought to be very attentive to the Gentlemen, who come thro our place to the New Congress—which please also to men tion—also to their ladies. Tis in this point alone New York injures & exceeds us. I have been trying to ascertain the defects, that appear in practice, in the New York corporation, but I cannot find any body who has con sidered it with that view. How different a people are my fellow Citi zens. It will take New York half a century to equal us in the sensible Modes of life & in politics & science, even if we stand still. I see every day here the dangers and inconvenience of a want of in formation among the people at large. The want of federalism in this State arises principally from the Want of Knowlege among her Yeo manry. I therefore strongly recommend the establishment of free Schools in all the Counties (the city having already done it) and par ticularly among that invaluable body of our people the Germans.
