500 February 12,1789 Hugh Williamson to James Iredell Dear Sir New York 12th Feby. 1789 Yours of 22nd ult came to hand by yesterdays Post. Mrs Dawson & her Daughter, whom I have just seen & to whom I delivered the mes sage you sent, are in good Health and request me to present you and Family with their Respects. Mrs. Williamson says she considers herself flattered by the Wish that you and two or three other respectable Gen tlemen have expressed of seeing her an Inhabitant of Edenton which by the way is the Place she has marked for her Residence but she says she is afraid that your Expectations may be founded on some Descrip tions of her Qualities that are the Children of Flattery. I have written to sundry Friends that I shall offer for Edenton both in Assembly & Convention if you cannot serve, but, if you can serve the Town in As sembly then I will offer for some County in Convention only. Your Let ter states a fact of which I was afraid viz that the courts will prevent you from serving in the Assembly. I think it probable that I may be at Home at or before the Election. Some farther Evidence as I take it re specting the Object of my late Appointmt. must be collected in the State which may require the attendance of Col. Thomas or myself. 1 Should this be the Case I shall try to come as I wish at the same Time to make some Arrangements for the settlement of my Family. By the Way I wish my growing attachment to domestic Life may not become too strong. I do not wish ever to possess that absolute Apathy and want of concern for the Interest of the Nation which I have often blamed in others on whose services their Country had a Claim. Be so good as give furtherance to the inclosed & believe me to be with the most perfect Esteem, Dr sir, Your obedt servt., Hu Williamson RC (Nc-Ar: Charles E. Johnson Collection). 1 For the appointment of Williamson and Abisha Thomas as agents for settling North Carolina’s claims against the United States, see Williamson to Samuel Johnston, January 19, note 1. James R. Reid to Nicholas Gilman Dear Sir, New York 14th. Feby. 1789 I find an agreeable acquaintance in your Brother, 1 he is a well in formed clever fellow. I hope soon to hear you have succeeded in your political views and shall expect to see you about the time of our death, we have not made a Congress as yet nor do I know whether we shall be able to make a will and testament. We have five States only.
