February 21, 1789 503 [PS.] A bill is now pending (and it is believed will pass) in our legisla ture to enable Aliens to purchase & hold lands in Pennsa. RC (PHC: Roberts Autograph Collection). 1 The perch is equal to the rod, or 1614 feet. 2 Coxe also wrote a brief business letter to his partner in Philadelphia Nalbro Frazier on February 19, concluding: “Our law to enable Aliens to hold lands is approved here exceedingly & will be followed I hope. It will have a good Effect on our lands. “We have Nothing new Here—except little details which prove the new Government perfectly safe. There is reason to believe the Senate will be unanimous against a Con vention. The Reps, above 2 to 1.” Coxe Papers, PHi. Charles Thomson to Samuel Huntington Sir, Office of Secretary of Congress, Feby. 19th. 1789 I have just reed the letter which Your Excellency did me the honor to write on the 5th 1 together with the packet directed to the Honble. the President of the Senate to be appointed for the sole purpose of re ceiving, opening & counting the votes for President on the first Wednesday in March 1789. This packet I shall not fail to deliver as soon as the President is appointed. With great respect &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). Addressed: “The Govr. of Connecticut.” 1 Governor Huntington’s letter is in Doc. Hist. First Federal Elections, 2:50-51. Samuel A. Otis to John Adams Dear Sir New York 21st Feb 1789 There being nothing very interesting in this quarter except what the papers contain I shall enclose them after informing you that Gen eral Washington & yourself have a majority of Votes even admiting those not known should be lost to you. 1 Being quite at leisure if there are any arrangements you want made here befor Col Smith returns you may freely command. Your friend & most humble Servant, Sam. A. Otis 2 [PS.] Compliments to Col Smith & the family. RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 For the electoral votes cast for George Washington and John Adams for President and Vice President of the United States, see Doc. Hist. First Federal Elections, 4:220-24.
