510 March 9,1789 RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 Not in PCC. 2 See Griffin to Randolph, February 2. 3 Col. William Davies, who had agreed in September 1788 to serve as commissioner for settling Virginia’s Continental claims, arrived in New York April 22nd and wrote to Governor Randolph on April 23 and May 7 and 22, for which see Cal. of Va. State Papers, 4:490-91, 596-97, 607, 622-23. 4 See Hugh Williamson to Samuel Johnston, January 19, note 2. 5 Col. Alexander White of Virginia had taken his seat in the House of Representatives but was not joined by Samuel Griffin until March 17. See Doc. Hist. First Federal Congress, 3:3, 5. 6 Not in Continental Congress Papers, Vi. 7 In the expense accounts that he submitted to the Virginia treasurer, Griffin claimed continuous delegate service from November 1, 1787, to March 4, 1789, plus twenty days for travelling. Continental Congress Papers, Vi. Hugh Williamson to Samuel Johnston Sir New York 9th March 1789 On the 4th inst. according to appointment sundry Members of the new Congress viz eight Senators and fourteen of the House of Repre sentatives met at the public Buildings in this City; 1 Since that Time the Members of the old Congress have not attempted to form a House; some of them are in the new Congress, the Remainder are chiefly gon[e] Home. You will observe by the printed Journal 2 that we have not, during the Winter, been able to form a Congress of seven States; whence it has not been in my Power to bring forward the Instruction which the last general Assembly of our State were pleased to give their Dele gates. 3 It is true that seven States have been represented in Congress at one Time or another during the last three Months viz New Hamp shire, Massachusets, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia & South Carolina but N. Hampshire, N York & N Jersey never chanced to be present together. The attending Members in general to whom I communicated the Purport of our Instructions were of the Opinion that the Request of the State should be granted and if I had been so fortunate as to have a Collegue I have no Doubt but that we should have obtain’d full Permission for the State to deliver in the Remain der of its Claims. Whatever Inclination I may have had occasionally to borrow a Holyday I have it in my Power to assure you, that from the Time I received the Instructions of the State, I have not been absent from the Chamber of Congress a single day at the usual Time of meet ing, lest the forming of a Congress should chance to be prevented and the Interest of the State suffer by such Absence. In Case the Board of Commissioners shall refuse to receive any new Vouchers or Claims that may be offered by the State I shall think it my
