April 14, 1789 517 great seal with the duties thereto annexed & to be annexed, and the custody & care of the papers which belonged to the late Congress be committed to me, this office to be made the depository of the acts, laws and archives of Congress; that the same salary be continued to me which the late Congress granted me & my stile be Secretary of the Senate and of the United States or Congress; & that besides necessary clerks, I be allowed a deputy who, if it be the pleasure of the Senate, may be nominated or appointed by themselves to do the ordinary business of the house, so that I may not be under the necessity of at tending except on special occasions and when the great business of the nation is under deliberation. If this proposition be approved by the Senate and acceptible I am ready to serve them to the utmost of my power. At least till the present government be organized & begin to take its due tone. If otherwise I must pursue my first determination and retire to the private walk but with an anxious wish & most earnest prayer that the measures of the present government may prove effec tual to secure the tranquillity and promote the happiness and glory of the United States. 1 With sentiments of the most sincere esteem and respect, I have the honor to be, dear Sir, Your most obedient & most humble servt, Cha Thomson 2 FC (DLC: Thomson Papers). In the hand of Charles Thomson. 1 For discussions of Thomson’s ambivalence about retiring from public office and the determination of his political enemies to ensure that he not retain office under the new federal government, see Schlenther, Charles Thomson, pp. 186-95; and Bowling, “Good- by ‘Charle’,” pp. 325—32. See also Thomson to the Joint Committee, April 30; and Thomson to Washington, July 23. 2 This day Thomson also wrote the following letter to his wife Hannah just after set ting out on a trip to Mount Vernon to notify George Washington of his election as Presi dent of the United States and to escort him back to New York for his inauguration, for which see Thomson to John Langdon, April 14 and April 24. “The place from which this is dated [“Bergen, Tuesday evening April 7”] still in sight of New York will I hope set your mind at rest and convince you that I am not quite so imprudent as you think. . . .[PS.] Wednesday 11 oClock. I am just safe over Hackinsak.” Thomas Ewing Family Papers, DLC. Charles Thomson to John Langdon Sir Duplicate Mount Vernon April 14. 1789 In obedience to the orders I received on the 6th of this Month, I left New York the next day and proceeding with unremitted diligence as fast as storms, tempests, bad roads & high swoln rivers would permit arrived at this place this Morning. 1 I found the general at home and after common compliments & salutations took an early opportunity to address him as follows. 2
