518 April 14,1789 “Sr., The president of the Senate chosen for the special occasion having opened and counted the votes of the Electors in the presence of the Senate & the house of representatives, I was honoured with the commands of the Senate to wait upon your excellency with the infor mation of your being elected to the office of President of the United States of America. This commission was entrusted to me on account of my having been long in the confidence of the late Congress 8c charged with the duties of one of the principal civil departments of government. “I have now, Sir, to inform you that the proofs you have given of your patriotism and of your readiness to sacrifice domestic ease 8c pri vate enjoyments to preserve the liberty 8c promote the happiness of your country did not permit the two houses to harbour a doubt of your undertaking this great, this important Office to which you are called not only by the unanimous votes of the electors, but by the voice of America. I have it therefore in command to accompany you to New York where the Senate and the house of representatives are convened for the despatch of public business. “In executing this part of my commission where personal gratifica tion coincides with duty I shall wait your time and be wholly governed by your convenience.” I then delivered your dispatches. To this [the] President, made a short reply 3 8c concluded with informing me that he would be ready to set out the day after to morrow, and from the arrangements he has made in his mind of the daily stages it may be 7 or 8 days from that time before he reaches New York. With my dutiful respects to the Senate, I have the honor to be, Sr, Your Most obedient and Most humble Servant, Cha Thomson RC (NhHi: Langdon-Elwyn Family Papers). In the hand of Charles Thomson. 1 The United States Senate had finally convened a quorum on April 6, whereupon John Langdon was selected president “for the sole purpose of opening the certificates and counting the votes of the Electors of the several States in the choice of a President and Vice President of the United States.” Upon the completion of the balloting, “the Senate appointed Charles Thomson, Esq. to notify George Washington, Esq. of his elec tion to the Office of President,” and Langdon sent Thomson the following instructions. “The Senate of the United States have appointed you to wait upon General Washing ton, with a certificate of his being elected to the Office of President of the United States of America. You will therefore prepare to set out as soon as possible, and apply to the Board of Treasury for such sums as you may judge necessary for the expenses of the journey.” Doc. Hist. First Federal Congress, 1:7-9. 2 See Washington, Papers (Abbot), Presidential Series (Twohig), 2:54-55. 3 Ibid., p. 57.
