May 19, 1789 529 the Sea letters now to be issued can run in the form prescribed. On consultation, both the Secretary of Congress and the Secretary for for eign affairs concur in this Opinion. Touching the naval Office and the Office of Collector of the Customs in Pensylvania By a law of Pensylvania passed the 10 Sept. 1778 5 Masters of vessels shall within 48 hours after arrival in port enter at a naval Office & make report, on oath, of all goods, wares & merchandize in such ves sel, setting forth the packages, marks & numbers thereof and the na ture of their contents & his own name and the name and burthen of the ship, and the names and abodes of the owner or owners thereof, the port or place where the cargo was shipped with the documents usually furnished in such place: Masters of Vessels outward bound are first to report to the said Office the intended voyage & before the ves sels proceed to sail deliver, under oath to be administered by the Of ficer, a manifest of the outward cargos. All vessels belonging to sub jects of the State to be registered in the said office, for which purpose one or more of the owners shall certify on oath or affirmation to the naval Officer the name, burthen, shape and Kind of vessel together with the name of the master, the place of construction and the name or names of the owner or owners thereof and the parts or shares they respectively hold in the same; and the naval officer shall register such vessel in a book kept for the purpose and furnish an attested copy of Such register. The naval officer is paid by fees fixed by law for entering & clearing out, for entering registers & granting certificates thereof and for per mits to unload. By an act passed 23 Deer 1780 6 an impost as laid on goods im ported, which impost was to be received by the naval Officer who was to keep a true account of his doings and once in every month pay over to the treasurer of the State the monies received, & once in every six Months or oftner if required setde with the State auditor; for this ser vice he was allowed % per cent on the Monies received & paid over and 2/ from the party executing any bond for each bond given for du ties. It appears that by an Act passed the 15 March 1784 Sharp De laney was appointed Collector. 7 This act is not in the office—But by an Act passed the 2 April 1785 entided a supplement to the Acts for rais ing an impost and to secure more effectually the revenues arising from the same 8 it appears that both officers were continued and their duties as far as they relate to the collection of the impost are regulated as follows. 1. All goods imported are to be entered with the collector. 2. Such entry before permit is given for landing is to be examined & compared by the naval Officer with the manifest of the cargo lodged by the Master of the vessel at his office and a certificate of his approv-
