530 May 19,1789 ing the same to be sent to the collectors office & filed upon which the collector is to grant a permit for unloading. 3. The collector or deputy collector, or the naval officer or his deputy, on reasonable cause of suspicion, may open and examine any bale, box &c. and if fraud be discovered, the goods shall be forfeited one half thereof to the use of the State, the other half to him or them who made the seizure. 4. The book of register Kept by the naval officer for registering en tries made at the collectors office, and the manifests lodged and filed in the naval office by the masters of vessels or a fair transcript thereof to be lodged in the comptrollers office as checks for the examination & setdement of the accounts of the collector. The naval officer to be allowed six pence for every entry he exam ines and to take an oath for the faithful discharge of his duty. The collector to give bond with sufficient sureties for faithfully ac counting and paying over the money received. A M[r] Phyle has been naval officer of the port of Philadelphia And Mr Sharp Delaney Collector of the said port. 9 In the commonwealth of Massachusetts By an act passed 1 Novr 1781 10 an excise is laid on wine, rum, brandy & teas and on wheel carriages and for the collection thereof one collector is to be annually appointed for each county. By an act passed March 1782 11 persons importing wine, rum, brandy or teas, and all persons distilling spirituous liquors are prohib ited from selling the same without permits so to do from the collector of excise or his deputy. By an act passed Novr 1782 12 a new duty or excise was laid on a great number of articles therein specified, both imported and made in the state. No imported goods are to be landed without a permit from the naval officers or in case of no naval officer in the port from the collector of excise in the county, and where there is no naval offi cer, collector or deputy in the port, from the town clerk or a select man. No permit for landing to be given by a naval officer till a mani fest of the cargo, on oath, is lodged with him. Collectors and naval officers are empowered to seize. The collector of each county is to account with the treasurer of the commonwealth for the money received for duties or penalties & to pay the same into the treasury quarterly. The collectors appointed in the several counties under former acts are to receive & collect the duties mentioned in this act till others are chosen in their room. Suitable persons are to be appointed annually for executing the duties assigned to collectors with such allowances for their services as shall be determined when they shall be appointed. On the 22 March 1783 13 an impost was laid on certain goods, wares and merchandize which was to be collected by the same officers in the
