534 July 17,1789 fices under the late Congress passed? if they be; have those Officers been recognised by the present Congress? Why then the distinction. The truth is All the Offices & the papers are in the care and custody of the respective Officers under the late Congress and must be so reg ularly till they are relieved, and discharged of their trust. And the Offi cers have done such business in their respective offices as they consid ered themselves authorised to do. Such I presume has been the case with others & such has been the case with respect to the Office of the Secretary of Congress. But whether this office is to be distinguished from the rest and the officers therein refused the payments of their salaries while thus detained is submitted to your judgment, by Gentle men, Your humble serv, Cha Thomson 2 FC (DLC: Thomson Papers). In the hand of Charles Thomson, and addressed by him: “To the board of treasury.” 1 There is also in Thomson’s Papers, DLC, a three-page document dated “Registers Office 2d June 1789” signed by Joseph Nourse indicating the total sum Thomson had been paid from May 9, 1776 to March 31, 1789, specie value, accompanied by a detailed “Statement of Particulars.” 2 For the final provision made for the settlement of Secretary Thomson’s office ac counts in the “estimate” submitted by Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Hamilton, September 29, 1789, see Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 5:381-82. Charles Thomson to George Washington To the President of the United States of America Sir, July 23. 1789 Having had the honor of serving in quality of Secretary of Congress from the first meeting of Congress in 1774 to the present time, a pe riod of almost fifteen years, and having seen in that eventful period, by the interposition of divine Providence the rights of our country as serted and vindicated, its independence declared, acknowledged and fixed, peace & tranquility restored & in consequence thereof a rapid advance in arts, manufactures and population, and lastly a govern ment established which gives well grounded hopes of promoting its lasting welfare & securing its freedom and happiness, I now wish to re turn to private life. 1 With this intent I present my self before you to surrender up the charge of the books, records and papers of the late Congress which are in my custody & deposited in rooms of the house where the legis lature assemble, and to deliver into your hands the Great Seal of the federal Union, the keeping of which was one of the duties of my Of fice, and the seal of the Admiralty which was committed to my care when that board was dissolved.
