July 25,1789 535 Before I retire I beg leave to recommend to your favour Mr Roger Alden who was appointed, by the late Congress, deputy Secretary & whom I have found an able & faithful assistant, and Mr John Fisher who has served as a clerk in the Office for several years with diligence and fidelity & who alone remains unemployed. And now with most sincere and ardent wishes for the prosperity of our country and a fervent prayer for your health and happiness I bid you an affectionate Farewell, Cha Thomson 2 RC (DNA: PCC, item 49). Addressed: “To the President of the United States of Amer- ica.” 1 For discussion of Thomson s failure to obtain a position in the new government, the combined product of determined efforts of old political enemies, his own inability to make his desires known forthrightly and unambiguously, and Washington’s reluctance to become involved in what was essentially a patronage issue, see Washington, Papers (Abbot), Presidential Series (Twohig), 3:295-96; Bowling, “Good-by ‘Charle’,” pp. 325-34; and Schlenther, Charles Thomson, pp. 185-95. 2 For Washington’s July 24 response to Thomson, expressing his “regret that the pe riod of my coming again into public life, should be exactly that, in which you are about to retire from it,” and instructing Thomson “to deliver the Books, Records & Papers of the late Congress” to Roger Alden, see Washington, Papers (Abbot), Presidential Series (Twohig), 3:308-9. Charles Thomson to George Washington To the President of the United States of America Sir, New York July 25. 1789 I cannot find words to express the feelings of my heart, on the re ceipt of your favour of yesterday, 1 at this repeated instance of your goodness. I shall ever retain a grateful remembrance of this and of your condescension to me on a former occasion when your presence administered a balm to my wounded spirit. From the love and veneration I bear and have continually felt for you, and the light in which I have always viewed you as raised up by Providence to be the Saviour and father of your country I freely con fess I should have been highly gratified in devoting myself to the pub lic service under your administration. But by attentively observing and weighing circumstances and occurrences it appeared to me to be the will of God that I should return to private life. Under this impression, though I wished not merely to submit, but to submit with cheerful ness, I own I felt an uneasiness at the circumstance you mention and which you are pleased to say you have to regret that the period of your coming again into public life should be exacdy that in which I am to retire from it; but I had this consolation that you were sensible and from what had occurred the world must be convinced & know that my
