Jacob Duche’s First Prayer in Congress [September 7, 1774] 1 O! Lord, our heavenly father, 2 King of Kings and Lord of lords: who dost from thy throne behold all the dwellers upon earth and reignest with power supreme & uncontrouled 3 over all kingdoms, empires and govemnjents, look down in mercy, 4 we beseech thee, upon these our 5 American states who have fled to thee from the rod of the oppressor and thrown themselves upon thy gracious protection, desiring hence forth to be 6 dependent only on thee. To thee they have appealed for the righteousness of their Cause; to Thee do they look up, 7 for that countenance & support which Thou alone canst give. Take them, therefore, Heavenly Father, under thy nurturing care: give them wisdom in council, valour in the field. Defeat the malicious designs of our cruel adversaries. Convince them of the unrighteous ness of their cause. And if they persist® in their sanguinary purposes, O! let the voice of thy 9 unerring justice sounding in their hearts con strain them to drop the weapons of war from their enerved 10 hands in the day of battle. Be thou present, O God of Wisdom and direct the counsels 11 of this honourable Assembly. Enable them to settle things upon the best and surest foundation, that the scene of blood may be speedily closed; that 12 harmony and peace may effectually be restored, and truth and justice, religion and piety prevail and flourish amongst thy people. Preserve the health of their bodies and the vigour of their minds; shower down upon them and the millions they represent 13 such tem poral blessings as Thou seest expedient for them in this world, and crown them with everlasting glory in the world to come. All this we ask in the name and through the merits of Jesus Christ thy son, Our Saviour, Amen. MS (MdHi: Journals of Congress [Philadelphia: R. Aitken, 1787],J1O.A15.V1). “Appendix” in the hand of Charles Thomson. 1 For the selection of the Reverend Jacob Duche to open Congress this day with a prayer and the congressional comment occasioned by his riveting performance, see these Utters, 1:31-35, 45, 55, 74. Duche actually delivered not a single prayer but two—a prepared one, which he read, followed by a much longer extemporaneous prayer, which led John Adams to effuse that he had “never heard a better Prayer or one so well pronounced,” and Silas Deane to declare that “it was worth riding One Hundred Mile to hear” (ibid., pp. 34, 74). These glowing assessments were aimed primarily at the impromptu prayer rather than his prepared text, which is printed here.
