552 September 7,1774 The discovery of this text of Duche’s prayer in the hand of Charles Thomson clarifies a longstanding puzzle. Historians have been reluctant to credit nineteenth-century claims for the authenticity of the prayer, and some have misidentified it as one Duche read “at his first appearance in Congress after the Declaration of Independence” on July 9, 1776. See George Hastings, “Jacob Duche, First Chaplain of Congress,” The South Atlantic Quarterly 31 (October 1932): 394. See also James Thacher, A Military Journal dur ing the American Revolutionary War... (Boston: Richardson & Lord, 1823), p. 145, and Lorenzo Sabine, The American Loyalists. . .(Boston: C. C. Little and J. Brown, 1847), p. 264. The first text of Duche’s prayer available to the public was published in Thacher’s Military Journal™ 1823, although the source of Thacher’s text was not explained. A sec ond printing appeared in 1831 in volume 1 of the University of Virginia’s Chameleon from a text in Thomas Jefferson’s possession at his death five years earlier, which soon after disappeared. Other nineteenth-century printed versions are essentially reprintings of Thacher’s. A manuscript text in the hand of John Hancock is in the collections of the Independence National Historical Park in Philadelphia. The defect of the texts ac quired by Hancock and Jefferson is that neither man was in Philadelphia in 1774 and they were most certainly obtained second hand. Our belief in the integrity of Thomson’s text rests upon what is known of his record as secretary of Congress from 1774 to 1789 and the care he took in preserving their pro ceedings. The document printed here was copied by Thomson on the first blank page following the index to volume one of his personal copy of the 13-volume printed edi tion of the Journals of Congress (Philadelphia: R. Aitken, 1787) owned by the Maryland Historical Society. It bears the heading “Appendix. Copy of the reverend Mr Duche Prayer see p 11.” And at page 11, which records the congressional proceedings for September 7, 1774, following the entry “the Meeting was opened with Prayers by the Reverend Mr. Duche,” Thomson wrote “see the appendix.” A comparison of Thomson’s text with the three earliest texts traced to John Hancock, Thomas Jefferson, and James Thacher reveals several, generally minor, textual varia tions, the most significant of which are recorded in the notes below. No clear evolution between these texts is apparent. The Jefferson and Thacher texts are printed as single paragraphs; the Hancock text produces Thomson’s first two paragraphs as one. 2 “High & mighty” precedes “King of Kings” in the Hancock, Jefferson, and Thacher texts. s “& uncontrouled” omitted in the Jefferson text. 4 “with mercy” in the Jefferson text. 5 “our” omitted in the Hancock text. 6 “to be” precedes “henceforth” in the Hancock, Jefferson, and Thacher texts. 7 “they now look up” in the Hancock, Jefferson, and Thacher texts. 8 “still persist” in the Hancock, Jefferson, and Thacher texts. 9 “thine own” in the Hancock text. 10 “unnerved” in the Hancock, Jefferson, and Thacher texts. 11 “councils” in the three other texts. 12 “that Order, Harmony & Peace” in the three other texts. 13 “they here represent” in the three other texts. John Adams to Elbridge Gerry Dr Sir Phyladelphia Octr. 7. 1774. I thank you for your kind Letter. 1 The wretched Vapouring of your Tories who are the worst Enemies of Mankind that ever disgraced the human Figure, Head and Heart, are ridiculous enough. They are laughed at by every Man of sense here. Gentn here know better the
