May 12, 1775 553 state of Britain and America. But I can tell them, for their Comfort, that Britain has neither Troops nor Money, to engage in a twenty Years War with all North America. I am assured by several Gentlemen here perfectly acquaintd with the british Army, that the whole seventy Regiments now in being do not amount to 27,000 Men—12,000 of these must remain in Ireland- some are in the West Indies—Some in Gibralter—some in Minorca- some in England and some in America. It is therefore certain they cannot with their present Army pretend to fight America at Land. To talk of Hanoverians and Hessians! Will the british Nation Stripped of the Commerce of the Colonies, raise her Millions by new Taxes to pay Germans? The poor deluded, abandoned Tories in Boston, knew not their Situation. They are pushing, with all their Malice for Measures that if pursued will cost them very dear. RC (Mrs. Elsie O. and Mr. Philip D. Sang, River Forest, Ill., 1981). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Not found. Silas Deane to John Trumbull Dear sir, 1 Philadelphia May 12th. 1775 The first leisure Moment I have had since Our parting at New Haven I now employ, to ask of You in a Word, what You may think might require Ceremony & Apology, but The Times my Freind are a sufficient excuse, it is that You wake the slumbering Muse, and write General Gage’s Victories, my Idea is that You write in the True Hudibrastic stile, his first Campaign, beginning, from his landing at Boston, last May, and ending, at the Salem Expedition which may be Canto 1st. untill that period which nearly takes up one year, all is a farce, & may be properly the subject of Ridicule, the second Canto must be serious possibly but let that rest untill the scene opens more fully—suppose You inform the World that the stile of the poem, will Constantly vary as his Actions and Atcheivements rise or sink are either of the Comic, or Tragic, the Farci[c]al, or Heroical complexion, and that the Next Canto will be published as soon as he affords matter sufficient for the Canto 2d. I cannot add, think of it & write Me, I have Consulted Mr. Jno. Adams who wishes You to undertake it. 2 I am Dr sir, Yr. Old Freind, S.D. [PS.] All here, are in high Spirits, the very Quakers have taken Arms, & imbodied themselves, & exercise many of them Twice every Day, but let no hint of this, get into the public papers. Congress proceedings will be a secret for the present—Georgia Delegates are arrived.
