570 March 2,1776 Benjamin Franklin to Charles William Frederic Dumas March 2,1776 [This letter was printed in these Letters, 3:426, under March 22, the erroneous date used in the 1803 source from which it was reprinted. Dumas, however, acknowledged it as one of March 2, which is un doubtedly the correct date because it was delivered by Silas Deane, who left Philadelphia for France March 8. See Franklin, Papers (Laba- ree), 22:374n.4, 548, 550.] John Jay to Sarah Jay My dear Sally Wednesday Night, March [20] 1776 1 Your Letter of the 17 Inst, made me very happy by informing me of your health and our Son’s Recovery, which I hope is by this time per fect. Tho your tenderness in concerning his Indisposition merits my thanks, yet be assured that I shall never hesitate more in sharing your Anxieties, than in partaking of your Pleasures. I am glad to hear Mrs. Lawrence was in such good Spirits as to en tertain You with the Story of the Conch shell Beauty, which together with its Embellishments, I dare say afforded much Mirth & Amuse ment to the Company. This little Incident happened in November last, and at the Time was the Subject of Wit and Raillery in the litde Circle of our acquaintance; but soon growing thread-bare it ceased, like other Matters of the same Kind, to be the object of Attention, and I dont remember it once presented itself to my Recollection during the Time I spent at Elizabeth Town. However as the Story has excited your Curiosity, and may contribute to your Entertainment, I will ac quaint you with such of the Particulars of it as I can now recollect. On a Saturday in November last, Coll. Morris and myself, invited by Sunshine and good Food took a Walk to [Gray] ’s Ferry with Intention [to] dine and spend the Day there. On our Arrival we ordered Fire to be made in a private Room, and while it was preparing, sat down in the common Room with many Travellers and Country People who were returning from Market, with whom we entered into familiar Con versation about Whigs and Tories and Beef and Butter and Congress. We had not been long engaged in this Way, before a most beautiful country Girl about seventeen, in a coarse but clean Dress, alighted from a Waggon and came in to warm herself. She was tall, extremely well made, and of most delicate and well proportioned Features; an uncommon Sweetness was diffused thro’ her Countenance, and that
