March 20, 1776 571 Kind of truely virgin Modesty which Innocence and Simplicity of Man ners inspire, marked her whole Deportment. Her Complexion beg gared all Description, nature had exerted her utmost Skill in forming it. Her Teeth were as good and her Eyes of the same Colour and al most as fine, as those of my fair Correspondent. An object so charm ing immediately diverted our Attention from the Herd around us. The Coll, asked her very politely which Way she was travelling? She blushed and answered, that she had been to Town and was returning Home. A Conv[versation ensued in which she had a part] each Sen tence borrowing Eloquence and Grace from Lips on which even a Right Reverend Audience would readily consent to hang, every Reply was accompanied by Blushes, which alternately rising and retiring, and each varying in Degree, formed a sweet Succession of such pleas ing Shades, that one would be inclined to suspect that Beauty had chosen the Countenance of this lovely Girl, as a proper Field for shew ing the vast Variety of Modes, in which she would display her numer ous Charms. After a few Compliments the Coll told her he had a Son, a little older than herself, whom he would be happy to marry to a pretty Country Girl that would not be above minding the Business of the farm, & would not (like some more fashionable Ladies) attend to nothing but dancing & Dress. That he was much pleased with her, and would, if she had no Objections send him to pay her a Visit. She blushed, she smiled, her Eyes sparkled, and her whole Countenance became agreably confused. She replied that she could not believe him to be in earnest—she was sure such a Gentleman’s Son would not marry a poor Country Girl without a Fortune. I observed that Indus try, Beauty, and Innocence composed a Fortune more valuable than Money, and that in these she was far from being poor. She was embar rassed, and Humanity forbid us to encrease it. The Waiter soon after called us to Dinner, to which we retired after having in vain invited her to partake of it. We indeed inquired her Name and Place of Abode, of both which she informed us. We then parted after wishing her all the Happiness, which the Possession of so many Charms seemed jusdy to Claim. This pretty Girl furnished Conversation for us the whole afternoon. Coll. Morris thought she bore a great Resemblance to the Lady who will open this Letter, and I assure you his opinion was not ill founded, which probably was the Reason of my being the more pleased with her. Before we left the Ferry, we considered of the Propriety of saying any thing about her, & finally agreed to do Justice to her Merit, but to con ceal her Name and Place of Abode, lest by be[ing] exposed to the Flat tery and Snares of those who admire and caress on [ly to] destroy, her Innocence, Beauty and Simplicity might be instrumental to her Ruin. But you may ask, how came she to be called the Conch Shell Beauty— it happened thus—In speaking of her Complexion, which exceeded
