May 19, 1776 575 Committee of Congress now in Canada, Doctr Franklyn, Sami. Chase & Charles Carrol of Carrolton Esqrs. 2 You will therefore send of this Money in the most Expeditious and safe Manner you can devise and if you can by any means in your Power encrease the Sum You will render an acceptable Service. We are also directed by Congress, to request you will apply to the Council of Massachusets Bay for any hard Money they may have Collected or Caused to be Collected for the Continen tal service, and shoud the Sum they have, be considerable, We think an Express with a proper Guard shou’d be immediately dispatched with the whole to said Committee in Canada, the Expence of the Ex press & Guard will be allowed of and the Committee will either give a draft on the President or otherways provide for it. You will please to keep the other Articles you mention to be Imported untill further order of the Secret Committee, who have the honor to be sir, Your Obedt hble servts, By order of the St. Commee., Robt Morris, Chairman RC (NhHi: Langdon-Elwyn Family Papers). Written and signed by Robert Morris. 1 Not found. 2 See JCC, 4:366. William Ellery to Lucy Ellery Channing Dear Lucy, 1 Newport May 19th 1776. 2 I have undertaken a Matter which fills me with Anxiety, Pleasure and Diffidence—Anxiety at the Thought of being so long as I expect to be absent from my Family and other near Connections—with Plea sure at the Prospect of being in a City which I have long wished to see, and in the most honorable Society on the American Continent, — with Diffidence, because I must follow (alass! with unequal Steps!) One of the foremost Sons for Assiduity, Firmness, and Penetration. 3 However to Morrow I shall set out, and hope I shall be able to dis charge my Duty if not with Honour yet with Integrity. I should have been glad to have seen you, Nancy, Mrs. Burt & little Frank before I left New England; but my Affairs will not admit of it. When I see you again I hope it will be in Newport, altho’ I must confess this Hope is not very well founded; for as yet America hath not sacrificed enough to Liberty. We have indeed lost much Happiness, much Interest, and some Blood in the glorious Struggle for our Liberties. Some have and some are about to quit their Parents, Wives & Children for the Sake of Liberty, and, in my Opinion he that will not quit his nearest Connec tions for her Sake is not worthy of her; But still much Blood must be spilt before the Obstinacy of Scotch Policy & Men can be subdued. A great Deal depends upon the Success, I mean the Duration of the civil
