August 7,1776 583 Jack—a book—with my dear Julia to pick—to talk & to smile by my side. Ah! what joys are these! But I must not increase the melancholly of the day by dwelling upon them. I shall aim at doing my duty, and sincerely pray that I may continue to act agreeable to the dictates of my judgement & conscience without any regard to the smile or frown of the world. Oh! to close my life with the Speech of the inspired pa triot Samuel to the Children of Israel! 2 Our city continues to furnish the most agreeable Scenes of public virtue. The general cry here is the flying camp. I saw a boy of between 13 and 14 yesterday Morning trudging Along upon the heels of his fa ther in the uniform of his company with a heavy musquet upon his Shoulder. He belongs to Capt Loxley’s Artillery company. Perhaps you may see him march thr’o Princetown. I would have given the world to have been the father of such a Son. Mr Dunlap called upon me yester day, & told me that the troop of horse to which he belonged was or dered to remain in Philada. but that he was going as a volunteer in the foot service. His zeal in the cause make him miserable at home whi[le] so many of his fellow citizens were in the field. “Should I fall (said he) in fighting against the enemies of our country, I have only to beg of you as my last request to remember my Wife & my little Sally.” Here his eyes filled with tears. I was hardly Able to answer him. Take care of your complexion. Mr Penn told me this day that the Sun had been at War wth. it. Use your calash & umb[r]ella every time you go out of the house. I reed, a letter this morning from Gen Lee. It contains a particular Acct, of the late battle at Charlestown, & a most exalted eulogium upon young Jake Morris. I sent a copy of it to his father. And must three long weeks elapse before I see my Angel Julia? The tho’t distracts me. I expect to read a letter from you tomorrow in Congress. Shall write to you hereafter every day by the post. Yours my dear Girl, B Rush RC (Dr. Gary Milan, Beverly Hills, Ca., 1996). 1 For the context of this letter, see these Letters, 4:530nn. 2 See I Sam. 12. Abraham Clark to the New Jersey Convention Gentlemen Phila. Wednesday Evening Augst. 7. 1776. It was with the utmost Concern our Congress reed, information by Letter from Genl. Merser yesterday, 1 that none of the Jersey Militia had joined him, & that the Phila. battalions were almost mutinous to return home. It is possible you may be unacquainted with the Strength of the Enemy—And the Number of our Forces at New York
