592 September 28, 1776 John Penn to Samuel Johnston Dear Sir Philada Septr 28 1776 As you will have an opportunity of hearing from Mr. Hewes all the News that is stiring this way, shall not trouble you with any thing on that head except the Contents of a letter which Mr. Robert Morris re ceived last evening from the Mole. 1 The writer I am told may be relied on, “that there were three Ships of War ordered from France imedi- ately to cruise round the Mole, 2 for the express purpose of affording protection to our vessels, also two or three from Spain to their Islands for the same design, that they are to act together and are to pay equal respect to the Commands of the French Governors as to their own, that there was a large Fleet almost ready to sail from Brest & that great preparation was making for war in both Kingdoms, that there was great plenty of powder & very cheep at the Mole.” I do most sincirely wish that the above Nations would declare war against Britain as it would give us an opportunity of new modelling our Army, I am sorry to tell you that we have too many officers who are not fit even to act as Common Soldiers in short they have not one spark of honour. I am with great respect, Dear Sir, Your obt. Servt., John Penn RC (NNPM: Gilder Lehrman Collection). Addressed: “To Samuel Johnston esqr., Eden ton, No. Carolina. Favd. byjos. Hewes esqr.” 1 That is, Mole-Saint-Nicolas, located near the northwest extremity of Hispaniola. 2 Cf. these Letters, 5:281—82n.2; and Clark, Naval Documents, 6:750-51, 812. Samuel Huntington to Jabez Huntington Philadelphia, 5 October 1776. “... I have conferd with Doer Franklin on the subject you proposd, 1 he seems favourably Inclind to accomo date us & [I] believe the matter may be accomplishd at some future day when the important briefings in which the Doer is now engaged Shall give him Leisure to attend to that Subject. . .You will receive this Letter I presume by Mr. Sherman who is coming to N. Haven to Whom give me leave to refer you for Intelligence from this quarter. Let me only add that of late the Spirit of privateemg Increases Sur prisingly in this place... MS not found; reprinted from extract in Christie's Catalog, May 18, 1984, p. 55. 1 Not identified. There is no mention of any such contact by Franklin with either of the Huntingtons in the Papers of Benjamin Franklin.
