602 January 30,1777 Brothers, The great Congress of the thirteen united States have re- cieved your belt at Philadelphia which they are much obliged to you for as they consider it as a fresh Testimony of your good old friend ship. Their hearts are glad that you are come to Easton to keep alive the old council fire; and have sent us to shake hands with you and to hear what you have to say. The Ceremony of shaking hands being gone through a glass of rum was served round to all the Indians present and the Healths of the Congress and the Six nations with the allies were drank. The Organ being ordered to play in the mean time. When the Company were seated Capt Johnston a seneca in behalf of all the Indians present or their tribes delivered the following Talk, as interpreted by Thomas Green and was copied down at the time of delivery by the secretary. Well Brothers, When we come along the road to Wyoming, we sent our belt to Easton that our Brothers might know of our coming to shake hands with them. We are glad that god [h]as helped us to meet together at this place. We find what our forefathers have always told us is now coming true, that we should live like brothers together. We see Brs the trouble you are in, which our Brothers the other side of the great waters have brought upon you. We come to let you see we are concerned therat. We see the tears in your eyes and come to wipe them away. We come to speak comfortably to you now you be in the Blood. Brothers, This is the day that god hath appointed. We have had an old agreement together and come to renew it. Our first agreement Brothers when you came first ashore was that you liked our Island and you settled here we liked you and we agreed together. The land agreed to was to standing stone you remember these things because you have them in writing. We can remember them only here and there. Our hearts desire is that we may hold our agreements and our love so fast that none shall ever part us not all the great things in the world must get between us. We must not let it be. We must hold so fast that were the Devil to try he could not part our hands. Brothers, We make a strong staff to hold upon that cannot be broke which all our hands can take hold of that we may always have a place to sleep upon and stand upon together. The first Council fire as we heard our fathers say was at the head place Philadelphia where we could see smoke & flame going up to the skies. We must not let the fire go out but always keep it light—a Belt of Eight strings with three double figures. Brothers, In these troublesome times a great many birds will be fly ing about to make Mischief for even the birds now a days learn to talk english and other languages and even the trees and logs begin to tell tales but neither you nor we must mind what they say we must remem ber old times and the old friendship which our fathers made together.
