604 January 31,1777 which any of their Brothers had to say but that they could not Consis tent with the propriety and Dignity of their Commission recieve or re turn any talks but at the public Council fire and Concluding with de siring them to deliver their talks thereat in the presence of the whole. The Commissioners Judged as it afterwards appeared that those Indi ans had nothing particular to offer, otherwise than to recommend themselves the more effectually to a share of the presents they were likewise of opinion that to hear their talk seperately might disgust the rest and endanger a general Jealousy. Noon The Ceremony at meeting as on the proceeding day. Capt Johnston continued as follows— Brothers, We are glad that God has spared us to meet again and see one another. We renew our old friendship and wish to hold it fast. Brothers some time ago our youngest Brother the Shawaness who live down on the Ohio came to us their eldest Brs of the Six nations and told us that their brothers the Cherokees had asked them to go along with them against our Brothers of So. Carolina. We told them It will not do. ‘You must not fall out with our Brothers you are but Young boys and dont know what you are doing you must be advised by us who know better than you.” This was our advice to them Brothers. We speak not from our mouths only but from our hearts. We Wish to keep peace and we hope and believe that the great Council fire of the Six nations.will always be listened to by the rest in these matters. Brothers, We used to keep the fire light at Philada but now it is kin dled at Easton. We Wish to keep it there. It is now Brs but a little smoke but we want to make it a great blaze that when we took from the long house of the Six nations we may always see it burning and We wish Brothers to have a strong man raised like a great tree that we can depend upon to keep the fire up. (Here they pointed to Col Bull and desired his services to them on all occasions[)]. A Belt 7 Rows two sin gle figures one double one thus IIV. Brothers, We have now to mention something respecting our Brs who are in Maryland whom we have not heard of these four Years. They are our own blood and we want to know how it is with them. We have often enquired. We now enquire again and say that we want to see our Brothers and want you to help us to see them. We ask this as sistance of the thirteen United States. A Belt with eight rows four dou ble figures. Here the Interpreter Thomas Green informed that his brother had pitched upon him as one of the persons to go to Maryland for that purpose—in company with one more. Brothers, We now mention some litde matters respecting ourselves. Brs we have been poorly off for many things since these disputes be-
