606 January 31, 1777 general tolerably sober great care having been taken to prevent the Inhabitants supplying them with rum. NB After Dinner the Cheifs in Token of their Friendship Conferred Indian names on the Commissioners and Secretary. While an answer was preparing the Delewar & Munsie Indians gave notice that they should deliver their Talk on Monday February 4th which made it nec essary to defer our answer. Monday February 4th Noon The talk from the Delawar and Munsey Indians amounted only to professions of Friendship without any particular business. They seemed to claim the honor of having first lighted the Council fire with their white brothers as they say 200 years ago. Parted with the usual ceremonies and appointed Wednesday for returning the Answer. Wednesday February the 6th Earley in the morning the presents were removed to the place of the treaty being proportioned out according to the numbers and wants of each tribe. They were set of[f] to the best advantage and a guard placed over them. The Commissioners and Chiefs being met and the usual cere monies gone thro the following talk was delivered. Brothers of the Six Nations and all you our other Brothers who are in Peace and freindship with us and alliance with them. In the name of the Great Congress we bid You welcome. We are glad to see you all. We take you not only by the hand but in our arms and we say to you “Come Brothers let us sit down by this fire and talk together.” Let us tell our Minds and open our hearts to one another and help one another that so the Great God who made us all may be pleased with us all and send a good wind to make the good old fire burn and blaze up to the Skies. A string. Brothers, we have heard Your talks and our hearts are glad therat. We thank you for the kindness which you shew us on account of the great trouble we have been in. Our eyes Brors have been dim with tears because our troubles have been many but our hearts have always been strong to bear them because we knew we had done no wrong to the English people beyond the great Waters. We sent many belts to them and prayed them to hear us but they threw our belts away and gave us no answer And instead of sending peacable men among us to enquire into our troubles, they sent a great army of thirty thousand men to tax and to take away from us the lands which our fathers who are dead and Buried bought from your fathers who are dead and buried: and to take our towns and our houses from us which we have built theron. This Brothers was great trouble to us because we loved the good old king that Lived In England beyond the great Waters in the time of the last war. But he is dead and another man is King in his
