March 18,1777 615 There must be a free Communication of Sentiment upon public Af fairs or they will Suffer. I wish you had written the Anecdotes. We have no Returns from the Navy. We know not whether they are manned or what they wait for. Can they be manned? Reprinted from Adams, Papers (Taylor), 5:115-16. 1 See these Letters, 6:457. 2 Ibid., p. 544n.l. Robert Morris to Jonathan Hudson Sir, 1 Philada. March 18th. 1777. I am half blind with Weak Eyes, writing & reading retard the cure altho they are mending. You may depend that I am ever ready to do any thing that will promote your interest and of course I shall not ob ject to the Sale of your House &c as you think that Sale for the joint benefit of Hudson & Lawson and propose to deposit the purchase Money as Security for Herries & Cos. Debt, therefore you may make your bargain & I shall do what is incumbent on me the above Condi tions being observed. I am Sir, Your hble servt, Robt Morris 2 RC (CSmH: Harbeck Collection). 1 Morris’ associate Jonathan Hudson has been identified in these Letters, 7:97n. 2 Morris was also making preparations at this time to provide his family a safe habita tion away from Philadelphia, and wrote the following letter on March 8 to Joseph Ship pen (1732-1810) concerning a farm belonging to Joseph Musgrave, a Chester County neighbor of Shippen’s, for whom see Randolph S. Klein, Portrait of an Early American Family: The Shippens of Pennsylvania Across Five Generations (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1975), pp. 176-78. “Dr Sir, I have agreed with Mr Musgrove for the place near your present habitation & now send down Mr. Miller one of my Clerks to see about getting the present Tenant to remove as quick as possible, to have the House cleaned, any repairs that it wants done; & to enquire whether a Couple of good Cows can be bought in the Neighbourhood &c &c. You may probably think it a bad omen if I begin to be troublesome to you in the outset, but as I suppose you have not full employment for all your time I shall venture to propose an intercourse of kind & Neighbourly Offices. You will have it in your power to do twenty little services to my Family in the Country and as I shall pass most of my time in this place where I fancy You must want many things done for you or your Family, I shall be ready most chearfully to become your Town Agent & obey all your Com mands. Upon this footing then, I presume to ask your advice & assistance to Mr Miller in what he is to do. And as my intention is to be a good Neighbour as far as in my power I shall likewise take the liberty to ask whether you can Conveniently Accomodate Mrs. Morris with a Bed for a few Nights if she shou’d come up before her own House is ready for her, but dont let this question put with so much freedom tempt Mrs. Shippen to put herself to the least inconvenience because Mr Bridges now at Wilmington offers to Ac comodate my whole family there, if necessary. Perhaps the House may be got ready im mediately and Mrs. Morris will bring up our Bedding with her but I mean to be guarded
