616 March 18, 1777 at all points. I hope you will excuse this freedom & believe me to be Sir, Your Obedt hble servt, Robt Morris. P.S. My best Compts to Mrs Shippen and I hope she will be pleased with her intended Neighbour.” Harbeck Collection, CSmH. Marine Committee to John Bradford and Leonard Jarvis [March 25, 1777] [For the LB text of this document, see these Letters, 6:491-92. The RC of the letter that was sent to Bradford, which is in the Hancock Pa pers, MHi, bears the signatures of John Hancock, Robert Morris, William Whipple, Nathan Brownson, Thomas Burke, Oliver Wolcott, Abraham Clark, and William Ellery.] William Ellery to Christopher Ellery Dr. Brother, 1 Phil. March 30th. 1777 I informed you in a Letter I lately wrote you 2 that I had in my Hands Two Loan-Office Certificates belonging to you and Eleven Pounds odd, and desired you to let me know whether you would have Me take them and the Money with Me when I return to our State, which I expect will be the last of May or beginning of June. I mention this because my Letter may have miscarried, and therefore again de sire that you would furnish me with Orders on this Head. I am glad that you are so comfortably situated, and wish that it were in my Power to serve you. I know of no such office as you mention. If an Opportunity presents I shall embrace it with Pleasure to put you into some Place of moderate Profit & little Plague. Your Observations upon the Situation of Affairs and the Tempers of People are just. I did not imagin that an attack would be made on the Island when I heard the Army had it in Contemplation; for Reasons which I don’t think proper to mention. I imagin the Enemy will evacuate it, and that I shall have the Pleasure of seeing Newport when I return, and the Mor tification of seeing it in a wretched State. If ever again I should reside there it will not be until the War will be over, which, if a War should take Place between France & G. Britain, I imagin will be in a few years. It is expected by some Persons that Philadelphia is Genl Howe’s Ob ject and not without Reason; but it is a Question with Me whether he will make an Attempt, until he shall have received a Reinforcement from Britain or from the Army in Canada not by the Lakes, but by the River St Lawrence; for I question whether Carleton will risque an At tack on Ticonderoga, and I am clear the Two Armies will never form a
