622 May 20,1777 Robert Morris to John Langdon Sir Philada. May 20th. 1777 I have just received your favour of the 5th Inst, and observe the rea sons which have prevented your executing the plans or Voyages I pro posed, they are satisfactory and I thank you for your attention to my Interest, you say nothing of the price of Sugars. I wish those you bought for me were here. They wou’d yield an amazing Proffit but I dont know how to get them along, probably they can be resold to good Proffit where they are and I must rest on your judgement to make the most of them. Shou’d the Prize Brigt. or Snow you mention go of[f] on terms that you think very reasonable I wou’d wish you to buy one of them (the Cheapest if you can hit on her, and despatch her immediately for Savannah in Georgia cons[ign]d to John Wereat Esqr. Continental Agent there. Write him a few lines requesting him to load her immediately with Rice and dispatch her therewith to Havre de Grace Consigned to Mr. Andrew Limozin Mercht at that place. You’l tell Mr. Wereat to draw on me for the Cost of the Cargo and he may depend his bills shall be duely paid, & I shall immediately write him on this Subject by Post. You’l put in a frugal, honest, care full, Industrious Master and give him instructions suited to this Voyage from France. He shall return with salt for this Continent. I have now reed letters from Havre by which I find the plan of send ing Goods to St. Pierre & Miquelon was laid onside, but pray wou’d it not be a good plan to order out Goods Thither in French Bottoms so long as they remain at Peace & build at Portsmouth One or Two fast sailing Sloops or Schooners to be constantly employed in bringing them from thence to the Continent. Will you be Concerned in such a plan & give me your sentiments upon it. I am sir, Your Obedt hble servt., Robt Morris RC (NhHi: Langdon-Elwyn Family Papers). Addressed: “ToJohn Langdon Esqr., Conti nental Agent, Portsmouth, New Hampshire.” Committee on Appeals Decree May 22nd. 1777. Lemuel Palmer Appel [lan] t &c. vs. | Appeal from the Court of Admiralty Reuben Hussey &c. Appellees j of the State of North Carolina 1 We the Commissioners appointed by the honorable Congress to hear, try and determine All Appeals from the Courts of Admiralty of
