June 9,1777 623 the several American States to Congress having heard and fully con sidered as well all and singular the Matters and Things set forth and contained in the Record or Minutes of the Proceedings of the Court aforesaid in the above Cause as the Arguments of the Advocates of the respective parties in the above Appeal do thereupon adjudge and de cree that the Appeal of the abovenamed Lemuel Palmer on behalf of himself and others in the said Appeal named be dismissed hence with Costs And We do assess the said Costs at ninty five Dollars and do order and decree that the Appellants pay to the Appellees above- named the said ninety five Dollars for the Costs and Charges by the said Appellees expended in supporting and sustaining the Decree of the Court of Admiralty aforesaid against the Appeal of the said Lemuel Palmer. James Wilson John Adams Tho. Burke MS (DNA: RG 267, case no. 17). In a clerical hand, and signed by Adams, Burke, and Wilson. 1 This case involved the condemnation by the collector of the port of Beaufort, James Coor, of the brigantine Hanover, Capt. John Pinkham, which had been brought into port on a voyage from Guadeloupe after its takeover by the crew, Reuben Hussey, et al. The ship had been declared a lawful prize as British property and awarded to the crew by Judge Richard Cogdell on March 21, 1777, whose judgement was appealed to the Committee on Appeals by both James Coor, on behalf of the state of North Carolina, and Lemuel Palmer on behalf of the owners of the sloop Caswell, a New Bern privateer. The Committee peremptorily dismissed the Palmer appeal this day, but Coor’s appeal was carried on by North Carolina for over a year, when the Committee reversed Cogdell’s judgment August 7, 1778. All the records pertaining to this litigation are gath ered under the case of James Coor et al. v. The Hanover, Records of the Court of Appeals in Cases of Capture, RG 267, DNA, case no. 16. The present committee decree is the sole surviving document from the Palmerv. Hussey appeal, ibid., case no. 17. Mann Page to John Page Dear Brother Philadelphia June 9th. 1777 In your Letter of the 29th May, you tell me, I suppose by way of Comfort for my Removal from Congress, 1 that in popular Govern ments there is no Disgrace in being removed from Office, especially if no Reflections are thrown upon the Character of the Person dis placed. In that our Sentiments perfecdy agree, & if the Government was well directed I should agree with you in another Part of your Let ter, where you advise me to wait patiently til the Expiration of my time. But it is not popular Caprice only, but public Injustice which a Servant of our Commonwealth while absent has to dread. If our As sembly would suffer Braxton’s Slanders to give such a fatal Stab to the
