624 June 9, 1777 Character of Colo. R. H. Lee, & without hearing his Defence would treat him as guilty, 2 the most virtuous Character may fall a Sacrifice to the Interests or Ambition of a popular Clodius. 3 As yet my Reputation, I am told, stands unimpeached, I mean to keep it safe, & shall there fore write to the Assembly to desire them immediately to send some one to fill my Place, lest some malicous falsehood be hatched for me. I am happy at being released from my Confinement which is too close for any body’s health to remain long sound; a few more Months would ruin mine. We are still threatened with the Movement of the Enemy towards this Place, indeed I begin to think they are in earnest. If the Pennsyl vanians have spirit to defend their Country the Enemy must be ru ined, at any rate they must pay dear for this City. By Accounts from the West Indies I am induced to think a War between France & Eng land must soon take Place. Great Jealousies subsist between them. In deed Matters are brought near to a Crisis by the Capture of a French Vessel who had some American Plank on board. The Governour of Martinique has demanded her. If she is refused, Mr. Bingham thinks it will be deemed allmost a Declaration of War. 4 The Dutch are at Vari ance with the English. Sir Joseph Yorke remonstrated to the States General against their trading with the American Rebels, to which he received a cool Answer & they have ordered, it is said, twelve Sail of the Line to be got ready. Please to give our Love to my Sister. I hope all your Children are well recovered from the Measles. I am, dear Brother, Your’s affectionately, Mann Page Junr. RC (ViW: Page Collection). 1 For Mann Page’s exclusion from the slate of congressional delegates elected by the Virginia Assembly on May 22, see these Letters, 7:129n.2, 181n. 2 For the protest against Richard Henry Lee’s exclusion from the Virginia delegation, see ibid., pp. 125n.l, 180-81. 3 That is, Publius Clodius (93-52 BC), “a disruptive politician, head of a band of polit ical thugs, and bitter enemy of Cicero in late republican Rome.” Encyclopedia Britannica. 4 For Bingham’s views on the imminence of war between Britain and France, see these Letters, 7:178—79. Secret Committee to Bernardo de Galvez Sir 1 Philadelphia June 12th 1777 We are informed by means of Mr Oliver Pollock of the favourable disposition you have been pleased to manifest towards the Subjects, Interest and cause of the United, Free and Independent states of America upon every occasion that has presented since your Excellen- cys accession to the Goverment of New Orleans & Louisiana; and par ticularly Mr Pollock assures us you are inclined to give all the encour-
