June 12,1777 625 agement and protection in Your Power to such ships or Vessels as we may send on Tradeing Voyages into the Mississipi. 2 As we the underwritten members of Congress 3 are appointed a Committee to Superintend the management of the Public Commerce of these States we think it incumbent on us to return you our Sincere thanks for the very freindly part you have taken and pray for the con tinuance thereof. The Ruleing Powers of these States are equally dis posed to promote a friendly intercourse and mutual Exchange of kind Actions between the Subjects of His most Catholic Majesty and their own. The Congress have sent a Commissioner to the Court of Madrid with Powers to enter into a Treaty of Commerce and friendship, 4 and we have every reason to beleive that Court are much disposed to assist and befriend us. Indeed this Commissioner has already advised us that he was met at a place called Gastos on his Journey toward Madrid by a Person of consequence who gave him assurances that Supplies of Blankets & Cloathing as well as Military Stores would be ordered out to Havanah & New Orleans there to be lodged for our use & to re main until we should send for them. We wait however to hear farther on this Subject before we take any measures for procuring those sup plies, but should any such arrive in the mean Time we doubt not Your Excellency will notify us thereof. It will probably be agreeable to know our present situation, Time will not permit us to give you any long detail but in few words it may be told. General Howe remains with the bulk of His army at Brunswick in Newjersey within the strong works he threw up last win ter when General Washington drove him back from Trenton and Princetown. He has been collecting his force there for a long Time past and making preparations to open the Campaigne. We have not been Idle on our part, so that altho we now expect Mr. Howe every Moment to March out and that he will bend his veiws toward this City, Yet General Washington has taken post in a very Strong part of the Country close behind Mr Howe and is prepared for offensive or difen- sive War just as the Case may require. The Armies are nearly equal in Numbers; But they have the advantage of better Discipline, better arms and cloathing. Our Men are more Active, better Marksmen and Fight in a better Cause—they will also be supported by the Militia of the Country; if Needful, A Militia that have already shared the Glory of defeating this formidable Enemy. Our Army at Tyconderoga under General Gates is also prepared for the reception of General Sir Guy Carleton and General Burgoinge. In short we are pretty well prepared but our soldiers being new, expect the beginning of the Campaign may probably turn against us, altho we have no doubt of closing it much to the Honor and advantage of America and that finally we shall so firmly establish our Liberty and Independence that no Earthly power will ever again be able to deprive
