July 7,1777 627 licitation consistent with the Liberty of the allies for the recovery of the Cargo of the Ship Seine [....] 3 As the Congress has an Utter Abhorrence against and are deter mined to punish all abuse committed under their flag we direct you to lay before this Committee particular accounts properly attested of all Action of that Kind that reparation may be made to the Sufferers and adequate punishment inflicted on the aggressors, at the same time you will be careful to enquire fully into the Matter in order to prevent frivolous Complaint and imposition on the other hand, and report to us your Opinions thereon. Gen Washington is moved within eight Miles of Brunswick. The Enemy [encamped about?] 8 Miles out of Brunswick—our Mili tary affairs are in an Excellent Condition and promise a fortunate Campaign. 4 Not having time to write particular Intelligence we refer you to the latest New[s] papers. From various Quarters we have ac counts, though none sufficient to depend up [on] that no Reinforce ments or very small ones will be sent the Enemy from Europe—and that a war is inevitable. Should it take place we have no doubt but the united Powers of France, Spain & America will totally expel the British A Power& fleet and Army from every Post [....] We are greatly pleased with your assiduity in Business for the facility of wch. we advise you in future to put only one letter in each Sheet and to Number them progressively beginning your next with number one—at the Top. You[r] duplicates must bear the same Number with their Originals. We will like in future excuse the omission of Philo sophical or Rhetorical Comparisons—Matter and Politeness being all that is Necessary in Letters of Business. We keep no Copy of the letters. FC (PPL: Du Simitiere Papers). In the hand of John Witherspoon, whose precise inten tions are difficult to reconstruct because of the fragmentary nature of this draft. 1 None of these letters is in the PCC, but for Bingham’s correspondence with the committee’s predecessor committee of secret correspondence, see these Letters, 5:213, 275-77, 358-59, 366, 6:187-88, 643n.l. 2 See, for example, ibid., 7:71. 3 Witherspoon’s intention at this point is obscure. He lined out a portion of the pas sage that follows, and then incorporated it into a paragraph that he added on the verso of this page, which has the appearance of the beginning of another letter. That para graph has been appended as the final paragraph of this draft. 4 Cf. ibid., p. 252. Elbridge Gerry to James Warren My dear sir Philadelphia July 7th 1777 Since my last 1 nothing new occurs, save the Approach of the Enemy towards Ticonderoga. By returns from General St Clair of the 25th
