632 Septembers, 1777 Committee on Appeals Decree September 8th. 1777. William Coit &c. App [elle] es ad [versu] s In the Court of James Perkins, John Timmings Commissioners of Appeals and Daniel Hubbard App [ellan] ts for the American States. At a Court held at the State-house in the City of Philadelphia on the sixth Day of September in the Year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and seventy seven Before the honorable James Wilson, John Adams, Jonathan Sergeant and Thomas Burke Esquires, Commission ers appointed by the honorable Congress to hear, try and determine all Appeals from the Courts of Admiralty of the several American States Came the Parties Appellants in the above Cause by their Advo cate and it appearing that sufficient Notice had been given to the Ap pellees (altho no person appeared on their part to support or sustain the Sentence pronounced by the Court of Admiralty of the State of Massachusetts Bay in the said Cause) the said Commissioners pro ceeded to the hearing of the said Advocate and after solemn Argu ment took Time to consider thereof and held the same under Advise ment untill the eighth Day of September aforesaid. At which Day the said Court being again met and the Advocate aforesaid attending their Honors the said Commissioners proceeded to the publication of their definitive Decree upon the said Appeal which being read and filed is in the Words following to wit. William Coit &c. App [elle] es ads. ) Appeal from the Court of I Admiralty James Perkins, John Timmings of the Southern District of and Daniel Hubbard &c. App [ellan] ts । Massachusetts Bay 1 We the Commissioners appointed by the honorable Congress to hear, try and determine all Appeals from the Courts of Admiralty of the several American States having heard and fully considered as well all and singular the Matters and Things contained and set forth in the Record or Minutes of the Proceedings of the Court aforesaid in the above Cause as the Argument of the Advocate on the part of the Ap pellants and no person appearing on the part of the Appellee in the Cause (altho’ sufficient Notice appeared to have been given) do thereupon adjudge and decree that the Appeal of James Perkins, John Timmings and Daniel Hubbard entered in the above Cause be dis missed with Costs and that the Judgment or Sentence of the Court of Admiralty aforesaid be in all it’s parts confirmed and established And We do adjudge and order that the said James Perkins, John Timmings
