636 October 24,1777 deliver them to our order, and therefore take the Liberty of enclosing to your Excellency, A Certificate signed by the President of Congress, whereby you will perceive this business is committed to our Manage ment, and as we could not think of Trespassing on your Time & in order to Occasion you as little trouble as possible we have employed Mr. Oliver Pollock who resides at New Orleans for our Agent; 3 and have Instructed him to Charter or buy Suitable Vessels to Transport these stores Coastwise until they can get into some of our Ports or In lets to land them. He is Instructed 4 to consult Your Excellency in this business, and we pray your favourable attention to the business: that you will advise in all things needfull—aid and Protect the Ships, Car goes, & Mr. Pollock if occasion shall so require. We are compelled to go farther in our requests and beg that you will also supply him with money if it becomes necessary to defray the charges and Expences that will accrue on the transhipping of the stores. He must grant receipts for what you supply and we will repay the amount by our Agent at the Court of Spain. We know not but you may be Instructed from thence to make such Advances, but at any rate we are well Assured your doing so will meet approbation there. We should not be under any necessity of this kind were our Ports open so that we could make exports of Flour as usual but at present the British ships of war are so numerous and strong on our Coast as to block up effectually all our Ports where Flour can be Shipped, However we have formed Plans (and are executing them) which will probably find our Enemies other employment for many of their ships; and when that happens we shall embrace the Opportunity most gladly of Sending Supplies of Flour to New Orleans understand ing that you are in want thereof. The Campaigne has opened both here and to the Northward since we wrote you before and been carried on with great vigour, many Bat tles have been won and lost by both sides, but at present General Howe and the Royals are in possession of the City of Philadelphia which occasions our being here. They have not however been able to get their ships up to that City, as we possess the Forts and passes on the River. General Washington has now surrounded and will soon starve them out of the City; he will then Attack and we have the greatest reason to suppose he will do it Successfully. To the Northward Fortune has been more Favourable, all the Battles between Burgoyne and our General Gates terminated in our Favour and we have just received an Account that is Credited of the intire surrender of Burgoyne and his whole Army as Prisoners of War by Capitulation therefore having no Enemy left to trouble us in that quarter, General Gates can soon reinforce General Washington, and as we formerly mentioned there is little doubt but the Campaigne will close in our favour and that we shall in the end establish that Liberty we are so justly entitled to enjoy.
