November 21,1777 637 We are your Excellencys Most Obedient Servants, Robt Morris W. Smith Henry Laurens P.S. The Account of General Burgoynes Surrender is Confirmed and the Capitulation come to hand. RC (Archivo General de Indias, Seville. Papeles Procedentes de Cuba, legajo 112—’’Car tas de la Junta de Comercio nombrada por el Congreso de los Estados Unidos a don Bernardo de Galvez”). In the hand of John Brown and signed by Henry Laurens, Robert Morris, and William Smith. 1 See Secret Committee to Galvez, June 12, 1777, above, note 5. 2 Not found. 3 See Secret Committee to Galvez, June 12, note 2. 4 See these Letters, 8:171-72. Committee of Commerce to Bernardo de Galvez Commercial Committee, Sir York in Pennsylvania November 21st. 1777 The Honorable the Congress judging it expedient to introduce part of the Stores sent out from Spain to New Orleans for the use of these United States up the Rivers Mississipi and Ohio to Fort Pitt have di rected us to address your Excellency on this subject, and in obedience to their Commands we send Mr. James Willing with these dispatches by the way of Fort Pitt, 1 from whence, we hope, he will have a quick passage down the River, and deliver them in due Time. By this con veyance we have wrote to our Agent Mr Oliver Pollock 2 and told him it is our wish, to bring about One third of the Stores by this Rout, and we Suppose Five or Six of the Boats usually employed in Such business will be necessary. He will consult with your Excellency whether it may not be best to send them up as Spanish property under your protection as high up as any of your Forts; and your determination on this point must gov ern. We have directed that the Boats may be well Manned and Armed, and not overloaden. Great dispatch is essentially necessary as we are in great want of the Articles, therefore hope they will be sent off immedi ately. Mr Willing will recieve your Excellencys dispatches and bring them safe to us. We transmit herewith Copies of our Letters to your Excellency of the 12th June & 24th Ultimo 3 and confirm the Con tents, to which please to be referred. Since the date of the last Letter we have lost one Fort on Delaware River but still possess the passes so that the Enemy cannot get their Shipping up to that City and as the reinforcements from General Gates Army are now joining General
