February 21, 1778 639 Howe’s agreeing to an exchange of Prisoners; officers for officers, Sol diers for Soldiers, & Citizens for Citizens. Congress Resolved some days ago that as Genl. Howe had refused to suffer any clothing to be purchased for our men in Philada., he should not be allowed a Com missary to purchase any necessaries for his prisoners with us, but be obliged to send them himself, & that British prisoners in our hands should undergo the same treatment our’s suffered with the enemy. Genl. Howe complimented Genl. Washington in high terms but cast reflections on Congress, he was answered by our General, that he should always resent any afront offered the Representatives of a Free people under whose authority he acted, & that he had avoided ever saying any thing against the Conduct of those whom General Howe served. I never have reed, one letter from you since you left this place. Our Committee is still at the Camp, my best wishes attend you & your Lady to whom I beg to be remembered. I am with great respect, Dear Sir, Your obedt Serv RC (NNPM: Gilder Lehrman Collection). In the hand of John Penn, signature clipped. 1 See these Letters, 9:42. Gouverneur Morris to Benedict Arnold Sir, Moore Hall, camp, Valley Forge, 21st Feb. 1778. I Received your favour 1 yesterday evening, and do assure you upon my honour, that your sentiments perfectly accord with my own, upon the subject of that fatal or ill-fated expedition; for one or the other it must be, since it is necessary that we should destroy it, or it will de stroy us. Your plan of turning the force collected at Albany, to the southward, is wise. It cannot fail of success; the other must. I wish I could be on the floor at congress to support your opinion, not as well as it deserves, but as well as the litde abilities I am master of, will per mit. And here let me add, that I shall always be happy to support the opinions and the interests of him, whose conduct and valour have saved the state I represent, at the expence of his blood. I am confined at this place by the business of the army, 2 which is in the uttermost confusion. Neglect in the commissaries, worse in the quartermasters, disputed rank and relaxed discipline, form the great outlines of the picture. Fill this up with as dead a colouring as you like, and it will not surpass the truth. This is not the first American army that has looked ill; and the time will come when it will shine. You and Lincoln must patch up your broken shins, and come to our assistance very early the next campaign. Howe, I believe, means to push us early; so that it is possible we may cut him up nicely. I hear some cloathing is arrived to the southward. We have taken every measure in our power to ruin the
