640 February 21,1778 Canada expedition. Excuse blunders of every kind; for I write in a hurry, and in company. Your friend, Gouv. Morris. MS not found; reprinted from Francis Bailey’s Freeman’s Journal (Philadelphia), July 18, 1781. Addressed: “Benjamin [sic] Arnold, esq. major general, Albany.” 1 Not identified. Arnold was at Albany at this time recuperating from wounds re ceived at Saratoga (Bemis Heights) October 7, 1777. 2 For Morris’ appointment to the committee at camp which was conferring with Gen eral Washington at Moore Hall while the army was in winter quarters at Valley Forge, see these Fetters, 8:673-75n.l. Edward Langworthy to William Palfrey February 25,1778 [At its sale, this document was described as “A letter written and signed by Langworthy as a delegate to the Continental Congress ... to Pay Master-General, Colonel William Palfrey, at Camp (Valley Forge.... This letter was sent to Col. Palfrey explaining the forward ing of a large sum of money from Congress already advanced to Gen eral Mifflin ... the result of a request by (Col. Henry Emmanuel Lut- terloh).” Heritage Collector’s Society Catalog, September 1985, item 41.] For Langworthy’s correspondence with Palfrey, see also these Letters, 9:249-51,311-12. William Duer to Robert Morris My Dear Sir, York Town 12th. April [1778] I have forborn acknowledging the Receipt of yours by Dr. Burke 1 — inclosing a Letter from our Freind Duane, but I had determin’d, if possible, to pay you a Visit at Manheim. Chase and myself often hav ing been disapp[ointe]d in our Resolution several Times had deter mined absolutely to have set out this Day; but the ill Aspect of the Weather giving us Reason to apprehend that we should be detain’d longer than we coud spare from the public Business, we have with great Reluctance given up our hopes of paying you a Visit till the End of the Week. It is said that my Freind Goveneur Morris is at your Chateau—for the Sake of our Country, my dear Morris, entreat him to push on and come with him yourself. From a Want of Representation in the State of New York, and several other Emba[rr]assments we can not bring on many Matters absolutely essential to our Safety without you especially the Establishment for the Army. I am desired by all your Friends in Congress to press you on this Matter; and I flatter myself we
