April 12,1778 641 shall not plead in Vain. If G Morris should be at Lancaster pray Write to him in the most pressing Terms to come forward. I send Mrs. Mor ris by the Bearer an Small Parcel which Mrs. Wood at Readg. desired me to deliver, and which I Quid, nunc like I absolutely forgot when I was at your House. I am sorry to hear of her Indisposition, but hope she has by before this perfectly recover’d. My dear Friend, don’t fail to ac company Mrs. Morris; ten or Twelve Days of your Joint Attendance will do more good than Six Months of your Presence One Month hence. 2 I am with great Affection, Yours Wm. Duer. RC (VtU: McCullough Collection). Addressed: “To The Honble. Robert Morris, at Man heim.” For an extract from this text, see these Letters, 9:404. 1 Not found. 2 Morris returned to attend Congress briefly at York May 13-15. His Mannheim correspondence also included the following letter to his Baltimore business partner Jonathan Hudson written May 8, reproduced here from the descrip tion and extracts provided from an autograph catalog. “Morris opens his analysis with comments on British motives in sending the Carlisle commission to attempt reconciliation with the Americans: ‘... It appears to me that a French War is inevitable or else Great Britain must acknowledge our Independence on the same liberal & generous principles that the French have done, and altho’ they may be glad to do this hereafter, yet I do not think the Pride Sc Dignity of that Nation can now be sufficiently humbled to do it at this era. Consequendy when their Commission ers will arrive here, they will not be invested with such Powers as will enable them to make Peace on terms that we shall claim. I think they dare not send British Troops to reinforce those already in America, because those will probably be wanted to defend their own Country, and from the Posture of affairs in Europe, they will not be able to procure many Foreigners. Our Army is & will be stronger than theirs and I think they cannot stay this Summer in Philadelphia. Next Winter however they dare not tarry there, but as they know their own Strength Sc Superiority at Sea, I think it probable they will withdraw their Troops, increase the Number of Cruizers and Watch our Trade more narrowly than ever. If the French Sc Spaniards engage in the War as I think they in evitably must, they will certainly open our Bays & Rivers by sending strong Fleets to Convoy the Trade, but this can only be occasional Sc the greater part of our time we may expect to be blocked up....’ “He then proceeds to the implications of recent events for public credit: ‘You are now to Consider the Independancy of America as established by being acknowledged by some of the greatest Powers in Europe... Consequently our Public Security as a Nation is become vasdy more valuable than it was, Individuals will think it so Sc throw in their Money to the Loan Offices, this will lessen the Necessity of further emissions, and if the War shou’d become entirely Naval, our expences will be trifling... Taxes will be Col lected and the quantity of Circulating Money reduced... ’ Morris looks forward to the swift recovery of the value of Continental currency: ‘I infer that so soon as the People begin to think our Money will retrieve its original Value, the Planters Sc Manufacturers of America still be eager to turn their several Commodities into Money which they bear high prices Sc on the Contrary, Speculators will think their Money too Valuable to part with, unless on terms that hold up manifest advantage...’ He instructs his commercial agent in Baltimore on the course to be followed in his private business ventures: ‘Shou’d you meet with opportunities of buying fast Sailing Boats of the Virginia Pilot Boat Construction... cheap... I wou'd advise you to purchase because I think from the reasons already given such Boats will maintain their Value. But with respect to purchas ing Imported Goods at this time on Speculation I am much puzzled, they are now very dear, an European war or American Peace will produce greater plenty than we now
