December 12,1778 649 your own hands ‘till we see what the States shall determine. I am of opinion that each of them will order new publications for the infor mation of their Citizens respectively, in my opinion the present situa tion of our affairs suggests that it ought to be so, & I wish it were in my power with propriety to send you a few spare Copies for the benefit of your Neighbors. Mr. Rivington will otherwise soon poison the minds of his Readers with spurious peices. By Letters from a very intelligent correspondent in Holland of the 19th August & anterior dates in the same Month we are assured that those United States will not renew their late prohibition to the expor tation of Warlike Stores to these, that their ports are open for the re ception of our Ships & products & that the Council were balancing on the great question of recognizing the Independ [en]cy of North Amer ica. Could we now or would we, reassume that Spirit of Virtue, Patrio tism & (Economy which we pretended to possess in 1775. Peace would soon be at our Command, but alas! avarice overflows, & indeed My Lord our circumstances are deplorable, Monopolizers, peculators, & delinquents for unaccounted Millions, together with a general supine ness in all the States, alarm us with a prospect far more wretched than our strongest fears had presented at our first entrance into this ardu ous contest & unless Patriotism will arise & cleanse the Augean Stable we shall soon be huddled into a Chaos. I have the honor to be, With the greatest Respect & Esteem, Sir, Your Lordship’s Obliged & obedt. servant, Henry Laurens RC (NNPM: Gilder Lehrman Collection). Addressed: “The Right Honorable the Earl of Stirling, Elizabeth Town.” 1 See these Letters, 11:234. 2 Lord Stirling's November 21 letter to Laurens is in the Laurens Papers, no. 18, ScHi. Oliver Ellsworth to John Dunlap [ante December 12, 1778] To the PRINTER. Observing that Mr. Deane in his late publication says that it is prob able that the Honorable William Lee, Esquire, Commissioner of the United States at the Courts of Vienna and Berlin, and Commercial Agent for the Congress in Europe, still holds the office of Aiderman of the city of London, 1 I have consulted on this point the Royal Kalen- dar, or Annual Register, for the year 1778, and find the following list of Lord Mayor and Aidermen of the city of London for the year 1778. The Right Honorable Sir James Esdaile, Knight, Lord Mayor.
