January 18,1779 651 sity of continuing the Embargo on Rice for an unlimited Period—We have now to observe that the several Purposes for which it was re quired will in our Opinion be fully answered by the 20th Day of Feby. at which Day we could wish it were taken off but without any previous Notice since thereby much Advantage would be taken by Engrossers upon the Public. In Order to releive the State over which you preside from the disagreable Situation of having an Embargo on one of her staple Commodities as soon as possible we have taken this earliest Op portunity to give your Excellency the necessary Information. We add that in our Opinion the Exportation of that Article will gready releive the Necessities of the Northern States exhausted by this cruel War. With the greatest Respect, we are, your Excellency’s Most obedient and humble Servants, Nath. Scudder Gouv Morris Wm. Whipple RC (NNPM: Gilder Lehrman Collection). Addressed: “His Excellency the Governor of Georgia.” Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Scudder, and Whipple. 1 For the November 10, 1778, appointment of this committee to superintend the commissary and quartermaster departments, see these letters, 11:201n. 2 Not found; but for the congressional resolution upon which this former recommen dation was based, see JCC, 12:1121. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett Philadelphia, 18 January 1779. “He is concerned that their corre spondence is being tampered with: 'The circumstances you mention leaves [sic] no doubt that some Villainies have been practiced at some post office or on the Road between this & N. Hampshire nor do I think it would be very difficult to guess where, perhaps our correspon dence may be intercepted in the same manner. . .1 shall in future number my letters as above...’ He asks to be kept informed of ‘any in teresting acts that passed last Sessions’ of the state legislature. ‘The Plan of Finance that was under consideration.. .has been sent’ to Bardett, though ‘not so well dressed as was intended’ because some States ‘had rather their constituents should have a naked Bird than wait a week for the Plumage...’ Whipple inquires about new members of the state assembly and warns that ‘Circumstances may cause an al teration in the conduct of men without changing their Principles. I need not caution you against men of that Character—we ought to be particularly careful not to place too great confidence in those who are not fully established in true Republican Principles, even ’tho they may fall in (at this late hour) with the spirit of the times.. .in my judge ment such characters cannot be too carefully guarded against, such
