652 January 18, 1779 no doubt are to be found in every State and will be creeping, or forc ing themselves into public life.. .1 know you have seen instances where the Blackest designs have been hid under the cloak of Patriotism, & vi olent Patriotism too...’ He assures Bardett that he points out this dan ger only from ‘a sincere affection for my Country and zealous desire to see Republicanism established in the highest perfection....”’ MS not found; reprinted from description and extracts in Christies’ Catalog, December 14, 1984, p. 107. Oliver Ellsworth to David Ellsworth Dear Brother, Philada. Jany. 26t. 1779. I thank you for your Letter of the 17t Inst. & rejoice with you in the happy prospects you have before you. How much so ever I wish to be present on the joyful occasion, I pray you not to delay it a single day for my coming. Tho’ I expect to be at home the latter end of next month, perhaps I may not be releived so soon, or be otherwise disap pointed. I have no news to communicate. Every body is now thinking & talk ing about the paper currency. I have written my thoughts upon it in a short piece signed Observator, which has been published here, & probable [probably] will be also in the Hartford newspaper. 1 My duty to our honored parents, & respects to our Brother & Sister Mather. I am Dear Sir, your most hearty well wisher, Oliver Ellsworth RC (DNDAR: Ellsworth Collection). Addressed: “Mr. David Ellsworth, Windsor, Con necticut.” 1 For Ellsworth’s “Thoughts on the Paper Currency,” which was published over his pseudonym “Observator” in the January 26 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet and the March 9 issue of the Connecticut Courant, see these Letters, 11:487-90, 518-19. See also Ellsworth to John Dunlap, December 12, 1778, above. John Jay to Sarah Jay Philadelphia, January 31, 1779. “Company or business leaves me so few leisure moments that I am determined to devote the present to you, and not postpone writing to another opportunity, which may not happen these three or four days. I am now perfecdy alone, and to tell the truth enjoy it. Either my room-mate or other friends, or persons on business are usually with me. Your favor.. .came to hand last night.
