February 9, 1779 653... Why did not your last contain a bill of health? Brockhoist is just come in—he tells me Sukey informs him that your Mama has been sick, and others of the family indisposed. I hope you have escaped. Peter it seems has had his share—These are unpleasant circumstances and I lament them. Two letters from your father were delivered me by.. .Mr. D. Harte this morning. They dine with me tomorrow. I was the more happy to see them as they told me you were well. Sally! The charms of this grey city would please me more if you partook of them. I am afraid to think of domestic happenings; it is a subject which pre sents to my imagination so many shades of departed joys, as to excite sensations very improper to be indulged by a person in my station, de termined at every hazard to persevere in the pursuit of that great ob ject to which we have sacrificed so much. The soft ideas of peace and tranquility, and more mild senses which health and youth and love and innocence blessed with affluence create, must for the present be faintly remembered, and never suffered to take possession of our minds. Let us refer these contemplations to some future less tempes tuous season and in these rough times think of nothing so much as how to move.. .thro’ the spheres assigned us; action, firmness and ne glect of those little luxuries and pleasures which relax and enfeeble the mind, now becomes us and should mark our conduct. Resigned to the will and confiding to the wisdom and goodness of Providence, let us cheerfully travel through the world in any road unto which He may think proper to lead us. That part of it in which we are now journey ing is to be sure not very desirable, but who knows, perhaps a few miles may carry us beyond the present adversities and the remainder of the way be as pleasant as this part is otherwise. I am interrupted. God bless you... MS not found; reprinted from extract in Kenneth W Rendell Catalog, no. 172 (July 1985), item 71. John Jay to George Clinton February 9, 1779 [At its sale this document was described as a “Draft of an Autograph Letter (unsigned), as President of the Continental Congress to Gen eral George Clinton, concerning General Israel Putnam, enclosing (not present) a Resolution of Congress of January 30, 1779, empower ing the Government to give warrants on goods ‘taken from Inhabi tants on this River for the use of Troops after Reduction of Fort Mont gomery,’” R. M. Smythe Catalog, no. 80 (May 27, 1989), item 172.] For the resolution Jay enclosed, see JCC, 13:124-25.
