654 February 11,1779 Committee of Congress to Caesar Rodney Sir, Philadelphia 11th Feby. 1779 We inclose you the copy of a Letter from Francis Wade Deputy Quarter [Master] General to the President of Congress, which hath been for that purpose referred to us. 1 We cannot but lament that no salutary Provisions have been hitherto devised to put a stop to the dangerous practices complained of. We must in duty to the Public again thro’ your Excellency reiterate our Requests that the Legislature of the State of Delaware will attend to this important object. We are Sir respectfully, Your very humble Servants, Gouvr Morris Wm. Whipple Francis Lightfoot Lee 2 RC (NNPM: Gilder Lehrman Collection). Written by Lee and signed by Lee, Morris, and Whipple. Addressed: “Govr. of Delaware.” 1 For the referral of this letter, which is not in the PCC, to the committee February 8, see JCC, 13:150. 2 For the November 10, 1778, appointment of this committee to superintend the commissary and quartermaster departments, see these Letters, 11:20In. Lee replaced Nathaniel Scudder on the committee January 23. JCC, 13:103. John Jay to Sarah Jay Philadelphia, March 5, 1779. “It is now near nine o’clock, my fellow lodgers out, and what seldom happens—I am perfectly alone and pleasing myself with the prospect of spending the remainder of the evening in writing a letter to you. As it rains and snows there is less probability of being interrupted.... Could I be certain that this letter would be read by none but yourself, it would be long and perhaps en tertaining. It would contain many litde anecdotes which prudence for bids me to commit to paper, and must be reserved to those social hours which I hope we shall soon pass together. These restraints are very unpleasant, tho’ I confess the tale of my two letters to you which fell into the enemy’s hands at Elizabethtown tends to reconcile me not a little to that caution in writing which, tho’ disagreeable, I have long practiced. They contain nothing improper to be published, and if printed without an alteration it would give me no concern to see them in a newspaper.... Kitty [Livingston].. .is still at Raritan, waiting for an opportunity to return. As the story goes, Mr. Duer was to have accompanied her.. .but has hitherto been prevented. I wish to know
