March 14, 1779 655 the particulars of Susan’s convention with Lord Cathcart. It is said she had the advantage of him in the treaty, and displayed much fortitude as well as address on the occasion. Pray how did John Lawrence fare? We hear he was in the house and was made a prisoner. Did they re lease or carry him off? One of your late letters informs me that Doctor Derby will not part with the boy mentioned in Brockhoist [Liv ingston] ’s letter. I am sorry for it, especially as your brother likes him. My father. . .appears pleased with your attention, and speaks very af fectionately of his little grandson.... I have been honored.. .with a letter from Mrs. . She is as usual uneasy and wants to have a house in the neighborhood and requests my advice and interposition. I wish I could make her, and everybody else, happy, but that is a conso lation rather to be wished than expected. The sensible and once gay, witty and handsome Miss Emlen, whom you knew and admired four years ago, is now a Quaker preacher. Strange things happen in the course of this world. I will not hazard my conjecture on the causes of this turn. We will talk it over when we meet. Writing with all this cau tion takes much of the pleasure of it....” MS not found; reprinted from extracts in Kenneth VV Rendell Catalog, no. 172 (July 1985), item 72. John Jay to Sarah Jay Philadelphia, March 14, 1779. “The probability that our separation will not last much longer increases.. . I have been so often disap pointed that I cannot confide entirely in [Mr. Gurney’s] promise, and the more so as Mrs. Gurney’s indisposition or inclination may cause another week’s delay.... On your arrival you must expect much com pany, and I fancy it would not be very agreeable to receive your friends in a bed chamber.... By a Poughkeepsie newspaper I find Peggy has lost her Uncle Barclay of Albany. I have a late letter from Fady, but he mentions nothing of it. He informs me that the family were as well as usual, and that my favorite mare was stolen and carried off. But this is one of those misfortunes which give me little concern. Want of exercise, disappointment, and some other little cares and in quietudes have, I found, impaired your health. Keep up your spir its.... A fine season approaches and I flatter myself that the ensuing four months will compensate for the last. How does the little boy do? Does he begin to speak plain? Does he run about?. . .1 hope to see him tanned and ruddy—no moonshine looking boys. I am as anxious about his constitution as his life. Let not his strength be sacrificed to his skin. Pardon my solicitude on this subject.... Last summer I set
