662 Octobers, 1779 Whereas the Congress of the united States of america did on the Day of last past, 2 unanimously enter in certain Resolu tions in the words following vizt. (Here insert verbatim the Resolutions with the Preambles & Recitals in their Order in which they stand[)] And Whereas the said Congress did on the Day of October Instant unanimously enter into a certain other Resolution in the words following to wit (here insert the Resolution repealing a certain Clause in the former ones and substituting another verbatim) And Whereas the aforerecited Resolutions & Recommendations are founded in equal Justice and true Policy, & have for their object the Establishment of perpetual Harmony, Friendship, and mutual Confi dence between the States therein named, which it is no less the Desire than the Interest of this State to promote— Be it enacted by and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same that all the Powers & authorities which it is recommended to, or requested of this State in and by the sd. Resolutions to vest in or grant to the said Congress, shall be, and hereby are vested in and granted to the said Congress, as fully and amply as if the same were here again particularly enumerated and described And that the Deci sions and Determinations which shall be made in the Premisses in Pursuance of the Powers and authorities hereby granted shall be obli gatory on the State and the People thereof so far as the sd. Decisions and Determinations shall respect the same or any Part thereof, And Further that this act shall be always construed in a Sense most ad vanced of the Design, true Intent & meaning of the sd. Resolutions. And it is hereby further enacted by the Authority aforesd that no advantage shall be taken by this State of the nonperformance of the Conditions in any of the Grants of Land in the sd. Resolutions re ferred to, but that further Time be given to fulfil the same respectively to wit until the Expiration of six Years to be computed from the Publi cation of the Act. N.B. Such further Clauses for the Appointmt of Agents &c. may be added as may be thought expedient. N.B. This last Clause is to be considered as part of the Bill which we have agreed to send to our several States. MS (VtU: McCullough Collection). In the hand ofjohnjay. Endorsed: “Octr. 1779. Mr. Jay’s Dr. of Bill to Submit the Claim of Vermont to Congress.” 1 This Jay draft bill was enclosed in his letter of this date to New York governor George Clinton, for which see these Letlm, 14:29. A variant of this text, printed from Jay’s retained file copy, is at ibid., pp. 29-30n. 2 That is, 24th day of September. See JCC, 15:1095-98; and these Letters, 13:546n.l.
