May 8, 1780 691 At what rate think you did the present holders of our money almost universally procure it? At the advanced rate of article—And can you conceive that any man ought to receive of the public for the money he acquired by the sale of one bushel of wheat, as much money of a different sort as would purchase forty? You will not think this to be just; and would not I beleive consent to pay a tax for this purpose. The subject of finance is at best a subject of great intricacy; and the de rangement of our finance, occasioned by depredation, hath involved it in still greater perplexity; so that if the plan proposed should not be unobjectionable it will not be surprizing. Connecticut and, we hear Massachusetts-Bay, have adopted it. Our State will I presume follow suit, and I imagin all the States will embrace it. It is impossible in the nature of finance to form a plan that will please every one. The great point aimed at is to obtain a medium of some established value; and this is a matter of such magnitude and importance as ought to silence the clamours of self interest, and excite the most vigorous efforts to accomplish it. You will before this gets to hand have seen the resolu tion of Congress declaring that the holders of Loan-office certificates shall not suffer by depredation. 2 Congress are disposed to do justice. By a vessel which arrived here yesterday in 13 days from St Eustatius we are informed that by advices reed, at Martinico, Mr. Jay the Min[iste]r to the Court of Spain had arrived at Cadiz, that the French had reinforced Grenada & St Vincent, and that the French & British fleet were both at Sea. The former consisting of 23 & the latter of 20 sail of the line. No late news from So Carolina. I received a letter from Mr Marchant dated the 23d ultmo. in which he informs me that he and I shall be dropped. It is what I have for some time expected would take place with regard to me; but I imagined he would keep his standing. Considering these shiftings as the result of liberty, when there is fair play, and some regard is paid to merit, and the reputation and interest of the State, the ejected or dejected persons ought to acquiesce. But when a change is effected by gross lying, and merit in the candidate and the honor and interest of the State are not regarded, as a citizen and an honest man I must regret it. If I were to consider my own happiness only I should be glad of your removal to Newport; because I shall now find two homes where I have lost my one. I wish you may continue there undisturbed and happy. I expect to be at Cranston in about a month, and in the course of the summer to see you often. Give my regards to your wife and chil dren and all friends. I am Yrs affectionately, W Ellery [PS.] The Marquis de la fayette is arrived at Boston. 3 We don’t know what brought him hither, but I suppose some thing of consequence.
