July 1,1780 699 order Regulations for that department during the Suspension of the Director General. 4 The Report on Loan Office Certificates was taken up and some Res olutions agreed to. 5 Tuesdayjune 27th 1780. Committee of Commerce. Letters from the Marquis of Britagnie at Martiniqu, w[h]ere he was sent per General Lincoln from Charlestown for Succors for that Place. 6 do from Parsons, Alston & Co & do advising of Frigate arriving there who said a fleet of 14 Spanish Ships of the Line & 8 Frigates were expected. Letter from General Du Portail at Charles town, he did not approve of the capetulation of Charles town. The Report with regard to the Payment of Principle & Interest on Loan Office Certifli- cates was at last agreed to be Postponed till to morrow. 7 Wednesday 28th. Com Committee. After some dispatches were Read, and Reports from Committes, Mr James Henry moved that the Report on the Certificates might be further postponed. Mr John Henry calld for the Yaes & Noes, which Pasd in the Negative per great Majority. The Main Question on the Report was then Put, and the Yaes & Noes calld for by Mr John Henry which Pasd in the Affirmetive 9 States Ayes, 2 Noes, 1 devided. So this great Question was at last fin- ishd. 8 Report on Ottis & Henlys having Purchas’d Clothing to the amount of 30,000 Sterlg. Referrd to the Treasury. 9 Thursday June 29th 1780. Com Committee. This day a great num ber of Letters, Reports from Committees &c were read and a good deal of Business done. Friday June 30th. Com. Com. A Letter from the Govr of Maryland advising, to that State agreeing to the Requisition of Congress of the 18th March. The Report of the Committee on the Quarter Master General department, was taken up and debated. 10 (A bad System. [)] Saturday July 1st 1780. The French Minister sent a Memorial to Congress at the request of the Governor of the Havana requesting leave to Purchase 3,000 Bs Flour &c. Referrd to a Committee. 11 Some other Committees filld up. Congress were invited per the President of the College to attend the Commencement. The President of Congress was requested to give notice that on Tuesday at 2 oClock he would see Company being the Annaversary of the Independence. 12 MS (MHiiJohn Fell Diary). In the hand ofjohn Fell. 1 See PCC, item 154, 2:206-8; and JCC, 17:558. 2 In this June 24 request, the board explained that they wished “fifty thousand dollars for a purpose which we beg we may be excused from explaining at present.” Ibid. 3 JCC, 17:563.
