September 30, 1780 713 John Fell’s Diary [September 25-30, 1780] Monday Sepr 25th. Letters from Mr J Adams. Several reports from Committees &c. were read and some considerd and Pased. Tuesday Sepr 26. Some Letters, Reports &c were Read, the Report of an answer relating to the Empress of Russia concerning the Newtral Powers was Postponed, and a New motion of Mr Levingston taken up and Recommitted, 1 Adjournd to 6 oClock. Letter from Genl Green was Read, advising of an Imbarkation at Whitestone said to be for Rhode Island, and another at the Watering Place for Virginia. 2 6 oClock Congress met, The Delegate from New Hampshire being Ill, nothing was done relating to Vermont for which Congress mett. 3 Wednesday Sepr 27th 1780. Com. Com. This morning Letters were read from General Green & Col Hambleton advising of a horrid Plott and Conspiracey by Major General Arnold to give up to the Enemy the important Post of West Point, 4 Coll Hambleton was sent to Secure Arnold, but he had got inteligence of the discovery, and was got off to New York, Capt Andrie Adjutant General of the British, was taken in Camp as a Spy, in consequence of the above intelligence the Chief Jus tice McKean was sent for in to Congress and requested to have the Generals Papers seized as any other suspected Person &c. 5 Some Let ters and Reports &c. (The Delegate from New Hampshire had his Pa pers read, relating to the Lands in dispute wth them, New York and Vermont, The Commissioners on the Part of Vermont, Refused being Present at the time, and so it ended for the day. 6 Very Cold & Fire. Thursday 28th. This morning the President inform’d Congress that the time for which he was Elected, was Expired on which a debate arose and a number of motions and amendments were made. At last a Question was taken, whether the House would Proceed to a New Elec tion Pased in the Negative, 7 some Reports were Read, &c. Friday Sepr 29th 1780. Coml Committee. Sundrie Reports, Letters, Memorials &c. I introduced a motion that no member of Congress should in future draw any money from the Treasury, which with some alterations was Pas’d. 8 Saturday Sepr 30th. This morning a Letter was Reced from General Washington advising of his being Returnd from Hartford and was at West Point at the time of Andries discovery and Arnolds flight, he also sent a Coppy of Arnolds Letter to him dated on Board the Vulture Sepr 25th which letter is a Curriosity. 9 MS (MHi:John Fell Diary). In the hand ofjohn Fell. 1 See JCC, 18:864-67.
