December 29, 1781 727 ing would be the same in the Account Drawn off, as in the minute Book. I shew the Committee some Taylors Bills, & other Articles, which I marked as not being proper Charges against the State; I Laid my voucher before them for Every Material Article except the Bills brought in by my Servant Hull, and the Bills for Extra Expenses. The former I examined when presented, & minuted in my Account; but I know not where the original Bills are. Those Bills were for wood, Can dles, Sugar, Cyder, & other Articles; which he provided. Those which I purchased myself I immediately set down. What he provided, I set Down in that manner. When I asked Company to dine I made all the provision myself, without any Connection, with the family where I Lodged: and Hulls Bills consisted, partly of the Articles purchased for that purpose & partly for wood, cand[l]es, Sugar, Souring &c. While I was at the french ministers Seat, for my health, Hull purchased Every thing for the family. Bills of Extra Expences were for Clubb, when at the Coffea House, & when riding in the Country for my health. It may be thought that these are high but I wish real value may be consid ered, & not meer Sound; I would here ask what the real value of an Extra Bill, of fifteen hundred, or Two thousand Dollars was; when the Sailors were burning waggon Loads of that money in the Street? And whether at that time New Hampshire had furnished me with a Single farthing of any other kind of money? There is an Extra Bill in the hard money Account, which perhaps ought not all to be allowed. It was at a time, when I rode much in the mornings & afternoons for my health, often fell into Company, Drank Tea, punch &c, & bated my Horses: I find it stands charged in my Account, Sixty two Dollars but carried off forty five pounds, when Sixty two Dollars is in Pensylvania money but twenty three pounds, five shillings; I never Discovered this Mistake till Since my return from the assembly. This Bill then when the Charge is rectified will amount to about three Quarters of a Dollar a Day for the time; which was the price of a Bowl of Punch, but per haps the whole of this ought not to be allowed. I am Sorry that any Er rors Escaped me in Drawing off the Account but hope the assembly will Excuse it, as I was the less attentive upon a Supposition that the Committee would be regulated Intirely by the original Entries. I shall make but one observation more upon my Account, which is that my Account of Expences on my return, are very small when compared with any other Period of time, This arose from my adopting a mode in publick life (for saving money) which in private life; I never at tempted. I Expected many objections would be made to my Bill of Ex pences; & as I had a number of friends on the Road, I called on them to Save Expences to the State, I traveled to Princetown with five Shillings and four pence; though detained two Days & a half by a Storm. I took care to rest my Horses at the Army, where the Expence was triffling; & in Every other place where it was possible to save Ex-
