December 29, 1781 729 Philadelphia Several months, only for the purpose of assisting the oth ers: And I was Left alone to argue against those three Gentlemen which I did more than twenty times on the floor of Congress; perhaps I was not Equal to the Task, but if I was not, the fault Lies with those that Sent Me. I did however attempt it; & I flatter myself that there is not a member of Congress, who will say that I proved myself unac quainted with the Question, or with the Laws, by which it was to be Decided. I have also heard it mentioned, that Mr Livermore Served in February & March 1780, for a Dollar a Day. I think that Congress, had at that time, fixed the money at forty for one; & I hear that he was al lowed Eighty Dollars per Day; which if the rule of Congress was Just should have amounted to two Dollars a Day, but perhaps a Little re flection will prove, that Mr Livermore had Some Inducements, that I have never had: his political principles were so much doubted that he could not at that time, obtain a vote for Acting as a delegate, more than a month. Perhaps a Sacrifice of Several Months, to prove himself a friend to his Country, would not at that time have been injudiciously thrown away. It has answered the purpose, of changing the Sentiments of the assembly, respecting his principles: but I am not apprehensive, that I was Ever under the necessity of sacrificing a Single Day to con vince any man in America, or Great Britain, What have been my real Sentiments, from the commencement of the Contest. This Considera tion might have had weight with Mr Livermore & Induce him to Ac cept of a Less Sum for the sake of removing those prejudices, then he will ever be content with in future. Members of assembly in General have not been at the Expence of a Law Education, have not many thousand Dollars worth of Law Books, Laying by them or Spent most part of their lives in that Study, which alone can Qualify them, to argue a Cause of Such importance & Intricacy. Surely I could not believe that any Committee before whom I had laid, all the Circumstances, would have offered Less in real value than I was allowed in 1774 which was half a guinnea per Day; of much more real value, than three Dollars at this Day; which is my charge: though a whole Guinnea, would not now be Equal in the purchase of Articles in General. Should my whole demand be allowed as to both wages & Expences I shall then be a great Looser for I borrowed in Philadelphia Eighty half Johannes, & received from Doctor Bond two hundred hard Dollars, to deliver over to a Gentleman in Boston; which I was under a necessity of Expending in the City & on the way; and all I have to show for the whole of this is, the difference between the two horses, I carried from Home, & a pair I purchased; & that be tween an Excellent Sulkey & a Phaeton. I did indeed purchase some cloathing but I came home, much worse Clad; than I was when I began my Journey; & if the present report should be Accepted & I should receive Seventy Six pounds this must make me full Satisfaction.
