August 27,1782 733 in dispute, agreeably to the Rules provided for that purpose by the Confederation. Reprinted from Joseph Rubinfine Autograph Catalogue, #105 (March 1990), item 23. 1 Middleton apparently drafted this motion in response to a Connecticut effort to delay the opening of hearings on conflicting Connecticut-Pennsylvania claims to the Wyoming Valley by objecting to the sufficiency of the powers granted to the Pennsylva nia agents in the case. Pennsylvania had recently issued new powers to its agents in re sponse to Connecticut’s complaint, and this day agents from both states were admitted to appear before Congress. After debating a number of motions on the case, of which Middleton’s was apparently one, Congress adopted a resolution directing the agents “to appoint, by joint consent, commissioners or judges to constitute a court for hearing and determining the matter in question, agreeably to the 9th Article of the Confederation.” See JCC, 22:390-92; and these Letters, 18:563n.3, 613-15, 668-69. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir Philada. Aug. 27th. 1782. I have examined into the law of this State relating to slaves coming into it from other States, and find an exception for the case of fugi tives which will secure your nephew agst. danger from that source. 1 As the French army however is at this time but beginning to move from Baltimore, I hope the Messenger will recover the slave before he reaches this place. Should it happen otherwise my services shall be freely given. With equal chearfulness will I procure the gold lace as soon as it is in my power. At present, my situation is such that I can give no other proof of a disposition to serve my friends, in any case where the least pecuniary advance is necessary. The balance is so much agst. Virga, in its trade with this place that no draughts on the former can be negociated here. My friends at Richmond are endevering to pro cure some relief for me, but as it will depend on the state of the Trea sury I dare not be very sanguine of their immediate success. We have had not a syllable from Europe since my last. The French fleet is in Boston Harbor. The arrival of a British fleet from the W. In dies is reported, but not confirmed. The proceedings of the Ct. Martial on Lippencut were yesterday laid before Congress by Genl Washington. 2 It appears that the Culprit did not deny the hanging of Huddy, but justified it as a necessary re taliation & warranted by verbal orders from the Board of Refugees. The Ct. acquitted him, on the pretext that no malicious intention ap peared to have dictated the measure. The whole trial would have dis graced a Russian Tribunal before the reign of Peter the first. Carlton explicitly acknowledges & reprobates the crime, and promises to pur sue it in other forms, but complains of the precipitate step of Gel Washington in devoting to execution an innocent & even a capitulant
