September 17, 1782 735 as to inform him that the letter miscarried, & that he must write again? I know not where he resides nor how to convey a line to him. Our Ministers in Europe are still silent, or their dispatches unfortu nate. The arrival of a packet at N.Y. has yielded us the intelligence in the enclosed paper, 5 some of which is very interesting. The new revo lution in the British Cabinet which seems to be throwing the whole administration into the hands of the Shelburne party, has not a very pacific aspect. Unless however they make a coalition with the old min istry, it would seem that their popular & eloquent antagonists will be able to render their triumph of short duration. In any event their councils must be either divided, or their measures obstructed, per haps both these evils may be their portion. If an honorable peace could be ours, then whatever it be would be of little moment to us. Adieu. RC (Vi: Mary Bain Carter Gift). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Rutland), 17:486. 1 See ibid., 5:96-97. 2 Not found, but see ibid., p. 158n.2. 3 See ibid., p. 110n.3. 4 Not found. 5 For the “enclosed paper,” see ibid., p. 120n.33. George Clymer’s “Thoughts on the West India Trade” [ante September 17, 1782] 1 The principal nations in Europe who have West India possessions systematically exclude foreigners from any considerable share in their trade. That general intercourse which untill lately No America had with the British islands implied no departure from the system. We en joyed it only as members of the British empire. But if it can be demon strated that the more this trade is laid open to America the greater will be the benefit to those nations, they will doubtless be induced to alter their systems in this respect. The following state of facts is of fered as demonstrative of this benefit. Lands in the West Indies are employed to much greater advantage in the cultivation of sugars than in the raising any species of provi sions—for instance an acre in sugar cane will in a medium crop yield 25 cwt at 35/ per cwt. £43.15/. and this from the labour of a single slave: whereas an acre in indian corn will not in common produce above 15 bushels at 4/. worth £3—the difference in the two cultiva tions being £40.15/ in favor of the former—’tho it must be acknowl edged in some other species of provisions, as yams and plantains, the difference is not so great. Now the more the inhabitants are obliged to raise of these provisions the more lands and the more labour must
