March 11?, 1783 745 this? suppose They effect their plans in part can any one say that the consequence will be thus or so? can any man feel certain of being at the head? will not the effect necessarily be a general & violent fomen tation? & is it not wholly uncertain in such case who or what will rise to the Top. To me it seems too chimerical & yet there are some things that seem to favour the opinion, but I rather think it mere accident that They assure that appearance. Thus much however is clear that there is a vast deal of finesse & intrigue to be seen—all have not right Views. Congress must have more powers & more money or They will soon name to nothing, They can not possibly be useful much longer without—but how to obtain either the one or the other I know not— you can not, that I see, enable Them to coerce a delinquent State dur ing the War—having a few Ships will enable Them in Peace to punish a State by interrupting its Trade, but money must be had to obtain Ships—if we mean to preserve our present forms of Government I am more than ever opposed to Imposts or any kind of Taxes that ar[e] imperceptible, but I have great doubts whether They can be preserved or are worth preserving. You may remember what has been my opin ion as to the Views, the interest & the policy of France—most people thought I was wrong & indeed I do not recollect any one who came fully into it. Sorry I am to tell you that We are now possessed of certain unequivocal evidence that their policy as to us is such as I expected, nay they have even gone beyond my expectations—& was it not for the firmness of Adams & of Jay I shoud fear the consequences. We must be vigilant & firm or We shall gain nothing more than the shadow—no advices yet from Europe—this looks as if the times were not easy to be adjusted, & it is not in my mind improbable that Our interest may have created some difficulties. We have heard that Terms had been agreed on between us & Brittain, but France would not ac cede to Them. I suppose Them to have been too liberal & advanta geous for us in the opinion of France—the Season however is so far advanced that I think We must soon know—if They mean to try an other Campaign its almost time for Them to begin in the West Indies. The advocates for imposts &c avow the Ideas which some in the Massachusetts supposed They entertained. They tell you that the Con federation must be strengthened, Congress must have more power, energy must in some way or other be acquired, but the people will be oposed to such powers & perhaps it is far from being easy to state clearly what farther powers will answer. You must therefore for want of sufficient constitutional power in Congress, create an influence. Im posts &c will be the surest & readiest means of doing this, if judicious appointments are made—men of property & extensive influence & connexions must be attached to Government in that way—such Taxes being imperceptible will not alarm & the collection after a time will be sure. The monies collected in this way if rightly disposed of will in-
