May 20, 1783 747 perform what We know to be impossible, or you shall submit to such systems as We please to project, though you believe They will subvert your Liberty & destroy your happiness? the pill it is true is a bitter one but you must swallow it & that without altering its form—these are his Ideas without colouring, his report is to be this day considered & I ex pect warm debates. I am really tired of the business & wish myself at home. We are aground & no one can point out a safer channel—do not let these Sentiments be too extensively communicated, no good can arise from it at present. Pray give my love to all Friends & believe yours affy, S.H. P.S. I hate writing so much that I cannot copy my Letters, you must read Them as well as you can—you may let E Parsons 9 see this if he asks. RC (DLC: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 Date conjectured from Higginson’s reference to a previous letter to Lowell [of March 4], his preoccupation with the resignation letter of Robert Morris, the focus of congressional debate March 4-5, and the absence of any reference to the news of the signing of the preliminary peace treaty that arrived in Philadelphia March 12. 2 That is, the “Financier,” Robert Morris. For Morris’ letter of resignation as superin tendent of finance, which had been something of a political bombshell, see Morris, Pa pers (Ferguson), 7:361-71, 462-68; and these Letters, 19:609-10, 761-62, 768. To explain his use of initials, here and below, Higginson wrote the following note in the margin: “It may perhaps be convenient sometimes to conceal names as in this giving the initial & final Letters only & reversing them as in this Letter, the persons I here mean are the Financier, Colo. Bland, Mr. Wilson, Maddison, Colo. Hamilton, Bland, A. Lee & Mercer.” 3 That is, Bland—”the initial & final Letters only & reversing them.” For this Theodorick Bland motion, see these Letters, 19:761-62n.5. 4 That is, [James] Wilson, [James] Madison, and [Alexander] Hamilton. 5 Bland, [Arthur] Lee, and [John Francis] Mercer. 6 Congress. 7 Army. 8 Perhaps Gouverneur Morris. Passages in Higginson’s letter parallel opinions ex pressed in “Observations on the Present State of Affairs” printed in Morris, Papers (Fer guson), 7:304-7, from a document located in the French archives that contains several minor corrections in the hand of Gouverneur Morris. 9 Apparently the Boston merchant Ebenezer Parsons. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir Philada. May 20th. 1783. Your Excellency’s favor of the 9th inst. was duly reed, by yesterday’s mail. We had communicated to Mr. Thomson the mistake contained in your preceding letter, relative to a recall of the territorial Cession, but have now corrected it as you desire. 1
