748 May 20, 1783 If our official & joint correspondence with your Excelly. be less cir- cumstancial than that which individual delegates may enter into with their private friends, we persuade ourselves that your Excellency is too sensible both of our public & private respect for your Character, to im pute to any defect of either. The difference can only proceed from the necessity in the former case of confining ourselves not only to such matters as are worthy of the public & for which we can be officially re sponsible, but to such also with respect to which no diversity of private opinions may exist. Notwithstanding the numerous arrivals from Europe we receive no other information than what passes through the public prints. Sir G. Carlton in answer to a letter from General Washington on the subject of the provisional Treaty repeats the same sentiments regarding the Negroes, which he advanced in the Conference at Orange Town; en tering a Caution however against their being considered as a final construction of the article. 2 We have the honor to be with great esteem, Yr. Excellency’s obt. & humble servants, J. Madison Jr Theok. Bland John F. Mercer RC (NNPM: Gilder Lehrman Collection). Written by Madison and signed by Madison, Bland, and Mercer. 1 For the “mistake” Governor Harrison made in his May 3 letter, see these Letters, 20:249n.2. 2 For this exchange between Sir Guy Carleton and Washington, see ibid., p. 273n.5. Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson Dear Hannah, Saturday July 5. 1783 1 Yesterday was celebrated at Princeton the eighth anniversary of the Independence of America. Had I the genius of Milton, the fire of Homer, or the sublimity of Virgil I might attempt a description in heroics. But as these are wanting I shall endeavour, in humble prose, to give you a few sketches of the pomp & parade exhibited. To begin in the usual stile, The Morning was ushered in, I cannot say with the ringing of Bells, but with the jingle of the College bell, which being cracked exhibits exacdy such a sound as a farmer makes with a frying pan when bees are swarming & he wants to setde them. A flag was dis played, on a pole in the street before the college gate, emblazoned with stars & stripes & with a motto, Virtue liberty & independence. At eleven o clock, The Congress were conducted in to what is called a Hall, where two of the young collegians mounted on a platform & de-
