754 July 17, 1783 We are now out of danger. We have had addresses and assurances of protection upon assurances from this state, and a large body of faith ful N.E. troops lying very near Philadelphia. Indeed after the first flurry had passed, Congress was in my opinion in no danger at Philadelphia for a number of respectable citizens in Philad. had taken up the matter seriously and would have stood forth in the defense of Congress had the insult been repeated. There is no prospect of our removing from this place suddenly, and whither we shall move when we do move I cannot tell. Several States, it seems by the generous offers they have made, are desirous of fixing the residence of Congress in them. We are so remote from the Centre that we stand no chance. I rather think Congress will return to Philadelphia before they fix upon a place of continued residence. The conduct of our Assembly doth not much surprize me. I knew that Mawdsley and Deblois had many friends in the Assembly, and I suspected that Stevens and Taylor would vote as they have done. 2 In deed I was so much aware of this that I would have proposed that the town should have instructed their deputies to oppose any admission of refugees before I left home, but I thought it was premature to do any thing in the matter until the Definitive treaty should have arrived, have been ratified, and Congress should have acted upon the fifth ar ticle of peace. Indeed, when it is recollected that the citizens of one state by the Confederation are entitled to the privilege of citizenship in all the others, in a matter of this sort great caution should be used. Interest and friendship will have great influence on mankind, but every thing ought to be postponed to the good of the Society where we live. Our deputies who voted for the admission of the two refugees you mention ought to be displaced, and such put in their places as you can rely on; otherwise instructions should be given to your deputies to vote against the admission of any refugees. But here you should proceed cautiously: You should count noses and have every measure as well taken as at the last election. Fruitless attempts are worse than none. They give strength and courage to our adversaries, and weaken and dispirit our friends. I suspect that some members of Assembly were taken in with the notion of a trial. A trial before the As sembly if the cause is to be determined upon this point—whether the petitioner had borne arms or not against the U.S. will be but a sham trial. The only question ought to be—whether they deserted their country and went to or with the enemy. If they did, agreeably to the law, of reason and the laws of nations, they ought not to be admitted to reside among us. The admission of refugees among us will forever embroil us. If you had the same apprehensions I have of the effects of a perma nent revenue, you would I think alter your opinion. I am very sorry to hear that our mother is so ill. If she should be liv-
