February 27,1785 763 We have ten states on the floor and have a prospect of twelve pretty soon, when business may proceed with some degree of celerity. Most of the business of Congress requires nine states, and an agreement of nine in ten is not much to be expected. We have lately received letters from our Commissioners. They have announced their commission to negotiate Commercial treaties to the ministers of most of the powers they were instructed to negotiate (with) and received favorable and polite answers; but nothing effectual had been done when their joint letter of the 11th of November was dated. 3 This is all the news I have to Communicate. I wish you would procure of Mr. Peabody two handsome walnut canes, of about three fourths of an inch thickness next the head, & three feet eight inches in length, well polished and armed with good ferrules. I mean to make a present of one of them to the President of Congress. Perhaps if these canes should be well wrought it may induce several persons to become purchasers of Mr. Peabody’s walking sticks. I could wish that the canes may be sent as soon as possible, and that you would desire the Captain who may take charge of them to send them on his arrival at New York to Mrs. Hart’s in Smith’s Street, not far from Pitt’s statue, that being the house where I board. I am affecty. yours, W. Ellery Tr (RNHi: Ellery Papers). 1 This date has been assigned because of Ellery’s reference to having dined “yester day” with the Marine Society of New York and afterward attending “Monsieurs Ques- nay’s concert,” which according to the diary of William Samuel Johnson were events of January 19, 1785. See these Letters, 22:1 lOn. For a transcript of this letter, printed under the date January 28, see these Letters, 22:145-46. 2 Not found. 3 For these letters from John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, and Thomas Jefferson, which had been referred to committee on January 19, see these Letters, 22:125n.l, 153n.3; and JCC, 28:lln-12n. James Monroe to John Francis Mercer Dear Sir New York. Feby 27. 1785. Two days since John Adams was appointed minister to the court of G.B., having had upon several occasions the majority of votes it was at length acceded to by the States of Maryld. & Virga, wh. gave him his election. 1 A secre[tar]y will shortly be appointed indeed tomorrow is assign’d for it; no one is in nomination nor do I hear any other per son than Mr. McHenry spoke of, but whether he will be elected or not is doubtful. 2 In the course of the last week also your friend the Indian Comr. 3 presented himself here. What his object is I know not or how long he will continue here. Propositions for raising men, regulating commerce & upon many other very important subjects are before
