September 2, 1785 769 not at liberty to mention particulars, yet, you may be assured, it was such, as must be agreeable to every true friend to this country, and if I should ever be so happy, as to have an opportunity of making you my personal respects, I may mention some particulars of what passed that I conclude might be worthy of your attention; you must be sensi ble that there is a propriety in keeping secret, for a while (at least) what passes between sovereign powers: but nothing is to be de pended upon from all this, nor no opinion to be formed, whether that Court will be favorably disposed, in the important affairs Mr. Adams is charged with. Since my last, his Excellency the President of Congress, being out of hea[l]th, has taken leave of us, for the present, & in that case a chair man is to supply his place in congress, & having the honor of being unanimously elected, 3 the important business has engaged my first & constant attention, but if his excellency should not soon return, I fear, I must follow his example, & give up the chair to a third person, or leave my remains in this city, for my hea[l]th is really injured. I remain, with perfect consideration & respect, your sincere friend & humble servant FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Rev. Wadsworth was the minister of the First Congregational Church in Danvers, Mass., that Holten attended. See these Letters, 12:329n.3. 2 See ibid., 22:527n.6. 3 See ibid., p. 582; and JCC, 29:631. William Ellery to William Charming Dr. Sir, 1 Newyork Sept. 2 1785. I have received your letter of the 27th of August, and am inclined to think that, as you have examined the Schedules of 79 & 80 and have not met with the order subjecting the delegates to the direction of the Assembly, it was not published in the Schedules, and probably might only be enter’d in the minutes of the lower house. If there should be any such order of that house only I could wish to have it; because it seems that would turn the scale in our favour. There is still some of the old leaven in Congress that raised the ferment at Annapolis. I ima- gin our right to a seat until the adjournment would not have been called in question if no dispute had taken place there. 3 We shall con tend earnestly for our right, or rather for the right of the State, but at the same time I must declare that I am so tired with the slow proceed ings of Congress, the difficulty of getting money to subsist on, and with my poor sprained ankle that I wish I was at home.
