770 September 2,1785 I have only money enough to pay a fortnights board; and must take the liberty of drawing upon you for 20 or 30 dollars if Capt. Lawton will advance as much. We are called upon weekly for our board; and it would be a sore mortification to me not to be able to pay it. You mention that the Assembly have not appointed a Judge in the room of Mr. Arnold; 4 but you say not a word about my Judge-ship; nor the letter I wrote to the Governor, 5 inclosed in one to you 6 by Capt. Warner, on that subject. As you say nothing of either of those letters I conclude they have miscarried notwithstanding I deliver’d them with my own hand and gave him, Capt. Warner, particular directions con cerning them. Taxes must be laid and monies must be raised however disagreeable it may be to the people. The requisition has not yet passed. I expect it will get through the house in some shape or other this week. The States not being fully represented is the cause of all the delay of public business; and unless some mode is adopted to bring and keep the del egates together; they may as well almost stay at home. The principal advantage of a Congress not capable for want of members to transact important public business, is the keeping up some visible head of the Union. We have nothing new. I have not tasted one good water-melon this season. The vines I am told have died before the melons were ripe; and as for peaches I have not seen one equal to our rare-ripes. I imagin it must be difficult to transport peaches to Newport in good order. Unless they are ripe be fore they are gather’d they will be good for little, and how to preserve ripe peaches two or three days in baskets without bruising; especially in warm weather, I don’t know. However when Lawton returns again if there should be any melons or peaches worth sending, I will consult with him and if practicable gratify you. I hope there is no longing in the case. I am glad Sweet has at last received to [the] amount of one half of his judgment, and that he is to receive the remainder from the gov ernment. By the way there is something due to me for my services in his cause. I hope I shall not be forgotten. Since I wrote the foregoing I rec’d a letter from the Govr. dated Augt. 29th, acknowledging the receipt of the letter which I supposed had miscarried. By his letter I conclude that I am at liberty to con tinue here until the adjournment, and that my acceptance is admitted on that condition, altho’ the Govr. says nothing about it. I should be glad to know what observations, if any, were made upon that letter. I never wrote a letter in my life which embarrassed me so much. My love to Lucy & the children. Yrs affecty., W Ellery RC (MHi: Channing Family Papers). Addressed: “William Channing Esq, Newport, Rhode Island &c.”
