September 13, 1785 771 1 William Channing, who was married to Ellery’s daughter Lucy, was attorney general of Rhode Island. William M. Fowler, William Ellery: a Rhode Island Politico and Lord of Ad miralty (Metuchen, NJ.: The Scarecrow Press, 1973), p. 178. 2 Date blank in RC; but as Ellery states that he had recently received Channing’s let ter of August 27, and subsequendy wrote to him on September 13, it seems clear that this letter was written at the beginning of the month. 3 For the “ferment at Annapolis”—a May 1784 effort to oust Rhode Island delegates Ellery and David Howell from their seats through a credentials challenge—see these Letters, 21:631n.2. A new challenge to their “right to a seat,” which hinged on the dates they had been elected as well as the dates they had previously served, had opened Au gust 8, 1785. The committee on qualifications reported, however, “that the Delegates of Rhode Island. . .have a right to sit in Congress until the first Monday in Novemr. next.” The report was submitted September 6 and assigned for consideration on the 8th, but no action was taken on it. See JCC, 29:620n, 630n, 682-84; and these Letters, 22:603n.2. 4 Thomas Arnold, justice of the Rhode Island Superior Court. Bartlett, Records of RI., 10:112. 5 Ellery had been appointed chief justice of the Rhode Island Superior Court, but had asked to continue as delegate to Congress until the adjournment of its current ses sion in November. See these Letters, 22:567-68n.3. 6 Not found. William Ellery to William Channing Dear Sir, Newyork Sept. 13th. 1785. I believe that you have found in the schedules of 79, 80, & 81, all that has been done respecting the matter about which I wrote to you. 1 If you should have found any thing more pointed in the journals it will probably arrive in season. A report has been made by the Commit tee of qualifications in our favour, and it was made an order of the day for yesterday; but is postponed because it is supposed that there are not States enough on the floor to give an affirmative vote either for or against our sitting until the first Monday in next Novemr. 2 We cannot be amoved from our seats without a majority of the U.S.—and I think that could not be obtained even if all the States were on the floor; so that in all probability you will not see me until the last of October. I sent your letter to Mr. Shotwell yesterday, the day I received it. I am sorry that any disagreement should have taken place at the last Sessions respecting the trade between Us & G.B. I think the Lower house were right in endeavouring to prevent our vessels using two sets of papers & colours. I think trade ought to be carried on fairly honor ably and equally; and that all the States should unite, if possible, in some measures that might compel G. Brit, to more liberality or draw some money from her. I understand, that, agreeably to your prediction, that mob rose agst one of the Nova-Scotians that went up to Providence; and would have played the mischief; but were prevented by the interposition of some leading characters.
