September 13,1785 772 I think as matters stand we should not admit any provisions to go to Nova Scotia; but in our own bottoms. They bring money among us ‘tis true for provisions; but it is necessity that compels them, and we have a right to avail ourselves of that necessity to promote our carrying trade; or at least to draw their money from them by a smart tonnage on their shipping or some other duty or impost. To suffer mobs to regulate the trade of a State is to say no worse ex tremely disgraceful; but if the legislatures will not do their duty the people will think themselves excuseable, when they endeavour to set matters right, and their rulers will be ashamed to punish them for their good intentions altho’ irregularly manifested. We are still hammering upon the report for a requisition; 3 but as we shall, I believe, this day have 12 states on the floor we shall make some progress. If Congress should recommend some commercial regula tions to the States, I think in the present temper of the people, they might be embraced; and it is the business of Statesmen to regard the tempers, the opinions, the passions, and even the humours of the people at large. But it seems to me, from the observations I made when something of this sort was on the carpet about 6 weeks ago, Congress will not suddenly agree in proposing any system to the States. I told you in my last that I should take the liberty of drawing upon you in favour of Capt. Lawton for a small sum to supply my most ur gent necessities, if he would be so kind as to lend it to me. I wrote to him 4 to that purpose, for the State of my ankle would not admit of my walking so far as the Crane-wharff, where his sloop lay; at the same time desiring him to call at my lodgings before he sailed. I waited until yesterday for a visit from him. Then I sent my letters to him with a verbal desire that he would call upon me. He was upon the point of sailing; and is gone without seeing me. I must pay my weeks board this day, and shall not have a copper for the next week unless you should furnish me with some money. I expect to be here about six weeks longer, and shall want about 100 dolls, to pay my board and other nec essary expences for that period. Let me intreat you, my dear Sir, to make known my distresses to the Treasurer and to urge him in the most pressing manner to relieve me. Unless I am supplied and imme diately I must return home; for my Landlady cannot trust me, and I have no acquaintance here from whom I can ask the favour even of a small loan. I am told that the Genl. Assembly made no provision for supplying their delegates at their last Session; altho’ Mr. Howell wrote to the Govr. on that head. He has lately wrote a pressing letter to the Lieut. Govr. What effect it may have I don’t know. Perhaps some of the Provi-
