September 14, 1785 773 dence Gentlemen may make an advance for him on this occasion. His situation differs from mine only in this respect, that he has some friends here from whom he can borrow. But it is hard, I am sure you will think it very hard, that the servants of the public should be obliged to the benevolence of friends for their daily bread. I have sent a card to Mr. Law; but the servant could not find the place of his abode. When I see him I shall communicate Mr. White’s wishes to him; and will acquaint you with his determination. Col. Barton has been here some considerable time, waiting for a de cision upon an application to Congress for compensation for a dan gerous wound he received at Bristol in repelling the enemy. That wound has become a very serious matter. He has consulted the most skilful Surgeons here, and they are of opinion that unless he submits to an operation at which human nature revolts, that wound will sooner or later prove fatal to him. In consideration of his deplorable situation, and the services he has render’d to his country Congress have unanimously made him a grant of fifteen hundred dolls., 5 and if the State of our finances had not been low they would have granted him double that sum. He is gone to Philadelphia to consult the most eminent Surgeons in that City. I was so lame at the time the grant passed that I could not attend Congress, and therefore our State had no voice in this matter. How ever I am glad that Congress took so favorable a notice of the merit and sufferings of our gallant countryman. Sept. 14th. I am now warranted in telling you that there is no proba bility of G. Britains entering into a commercial treaty with us, until they are compelled to do it by duties on or prohibitions of their trade with us. We must make them feel; before they will act as they ought. I begin to think that as soon as we get through the requisition, we shall take up the business of commercial regulations, and at least recommend to the States some efficacious measures for obliging the British to alter their system. So long as they are allowed to en gross the carrying trade, and to import their commodities, and ex port ours as they please, without any restraint, and to prohibit our vessels entering their port or lay such duties upon our commerce as they shall judge proper, without any prohibitions or duties on our part, we may reason with them but it will be without effect. We must strike at ther interest; and make them feel thoroughly. This is the only way to deal with them. What nation ever admitted another to a reciprocity in trade against its interest? There is no friendship in trade, and nations are governed only by their interest. If by some
