September 14, 1785 774 such compulsory measures as have been hinted at, we can make Britain relax her selfish system; it will influence other commercial powers to relax also; and thus we may trade hereafter upon equal terms with all the world. You have observed that France pursues a system similar to that of Britain. They are rivals, and competitors for naval power; and the aug mentation thereof depends upon their monopolizing as far as possi ble the carrying trade; and as they both draw a great revenue from Commerce their national wealth will be increased also in proportion to the extent and enlargement of their commerce. We have a right to our share, and if we cannot obtain a participa tion with them without, we must adopt their measures. All restraints upon trade are against nature. The exchange of the commodities of one country for those of another, ought to be as free, as the exchange is of articles between the citizens of any particular State or Country. But the lusts of ambition and avarice have induced nations to adopt principles contrary to that equality and freedom which ought to sub sist, and as by habit, and from situation we are a commercial people we must follow suit, and oppose restraints to restraints. France has of late years enlarged her commerce, the Emperor of Germany is ambitious of becoming commercial. Prussia would if he could. Russia & the Emperor of Germany have in constant view the conquest and partition of the Ottoman Empire in order to extend their commerce. In short commerce seems to be the great object of al most every power in Europe, any part of whose dominions border upon the sea. As they extend their commerce, the necessity of navies to protect it will suggest itself. The smaller naval powers will form combinations to support their trade against the interruptions of the larger. From the constant ciashings of interest wars will arise. Naval wars. The Ocean will become if possible an Acaldama; and if such an extravagant idea might be indulged I could conceive that the conflict of numerous navies might hereafter set the sea on fire, and evaporate the channels of Commerce. We have a large territory, and shall have an extensive home trade in a course of years. If we could but moderate our rage for foreign trade, and be content, as the Chinese are, with our domestic intercourse, we might for a long time keep clear of war, and be happy; but alass! avarice & ambition are insatiable. Give my love to Lucy & your children. I am Yrs affecty., WE RC (MHi: Channing Family Papers). 1 See the preceding entry. 2 Ibid., note 3. 3 For this report, which was adopted September 27, see these Letters, 22:499n.2. 4 Not found. 5 For this September 7 grant to William Barton, see JCC, 29:684.
