September 24, 1785 775 William Ellery to William Channing Dr- Sir, New York Sept. 24th. 1785 I had not the pleasure of seeing Mr. Law until within a few days past. I communicated Mr. White’s request to him. Mr. Law says he is engaged to keep a school here; that it may break up in the winter; if it should, and it should suit, he would then open a school in Bristol. I asked him what he should ask for keeping school there, He said thirty dolls, a month and his board. I suppose by this time all our lads & lasses are singers, and they per form most melodiously. I wish to hear them, and to see my dear New port friends. My ankle, under the weakness of which I have long laboured, grows stronger very gradually. I hobble about a little; but with great caution. I plunge my foot in cold water every night and morning, rubb it frequently with flannel, and assist the endeavours of nature to restore the relaxed vessels to their usual tone by all proper means; but at my age her efforts are not so vigorous as in the prime of life, and the sprain I suffer’d was extremely violent. Considering all circumstances my acquaintances say that I have come off well. I be lieve I have. In every affliction it is some consolation to reflect that the calamity might have been greater. We are still hammering at the requisition. 1 We have often been as I thought very near to a decision; but at the crisis some objection has been started, which has put us to a dead stand. The facilities, 2 as they are called, in the opinion of the southern, favour too much the mid dle and eastern States. The latter have more loan-office certificates, and certificates for liquidated debts than the former and these press that debts which they have assumed without any warrant from Congress should be consider’d in the requisition, or at least that they should be liquidated and credited in the general adjustment of the public accounts. There can be no objection to their liquidation, and to the credit demanded; but some plan should be first formed for the liquidation of such debts; otherwise some large and improper charges might be admitted by the Commission [ers]—and to suspend the req uisition until such plan should be formed & established might put it off to too distant a period. Unless a requisition is soon passed, and in operation, public creditors, both foreign and domestic, will have rea son to complain, the civil officers of Congress be unpaid, and the wheels of government stand still. The southern delegates would avail themselves of this necessity, to force a compliance from others with their demands on the score of Assumptions. Here’s the rubb. But they will not be gratified; and the requisition must finally pass. Until we agree in a mode for ascertaining the State’s quotas of the public debt, requisitions for money will meet with great & tedious embarrassments. When this shall be done, and the accounts of individual States with
