October 14, 1785 779 Two days were spent in a committee of the whole considering whither any farther powers were necessary to be vested in Congress, respecting commercial affairs, & ‘tho’ they did not agree upon any re port to Congress, yet, it was very evident, whatever is agreed upon, will be only temporary, by way of trial. In my address to you of the 4th of July 1 are these words (viz) “I shall present the pamphlet with your polite respects to the President,” but I acknowledge, I have been wanting in not informing you of the kind & polite reception it met with from his Excellency, & of his desire that I would communicate it to you, with [h]is respectful compliments. I intend to forward by this post a copy of the resolution lately passed, in Mr. Wallcut’s favor. 2 It gives me pleasure to hear your health is more confirmed; & I hope you left my worthy friend Mr. Collins well at Rhode Island. A correspondent has favored me with the names of the gentlemen that were upon the committee, from the honbl. house, to enquire who of their delegates were again eligible, but I have not, yet, been favored with a copy of their report, however, it is observable that two of the gentlemen were elected. I remain, your sincere friend and humble servant FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Not found. 2 See Holten to Thomas Wallcut, this date, in these Letters, 22:658. William Hindman to Gunning Bedford, Jr. Dear sir New-York Octr. [i.e., Novr.] 14th. 1785' You have I fear e’er this determined Me to be a Man not to be de pended upon, having promised to write You & send the Papers, which Promise I should have complied with, but Mr. Vining having remained here some Time after You, 2 said He regularly wrote You, which made it unnecessary for Me, since his Departure Nothing has turn’d up wor thy of Communication. There have been but four States represented in Congress, since the Commencement of the new Congressional Year. I think it probable We shall have a Congress in the Course of this Week. 3 I know not who We shall elect President—Mr. Hancock is talk’d of by some if He comes on. Mr. Bull is talk’d of by others, He intends this Week for South-Carolina. It would give Me much Pleasure to see You in the Chair. When will your Delegation be on? 4 My best Respects to Mr. Vining & am, with much Esteem, Yr. very humble servant, Wm. Hindman
