Elbridge Gerry
State: Massachusetts
Signed Constitution: False
Surviving papers tier: rich
Best public-domain source note: Life of Elbridge Gerry, with contemporary letters (J. T. Austin, 2 vols, PD)



===== Elbridge Gerry - Life of Elbridge Gerry, with contemporary letters (J. T. Austin, 2 vols, PD) (vol. 1) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/lifeofelbridgege00aust/lifeofelbridgege00aust_djvu.txt

EmffiRCH VARIES

3 3433 08240156 7

THE LIFE

OF

ELBRIDGE GERRY.

nrs ■

FtfBiiCiJ*.

THL9f.fl PWWOATIOW8

reassgjBfei;;

mw(sm drsmmiFc

o

■ ingacre from a drawins^ ,-hoi.

THE LIFE

OF

ELBRIDGE GERRY.

OTCtli Gtontemporarg Setters.

TO THE CLOSE OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION.

By JAMES T. AUSTIN.

BOSTON:

WELLS AND LILLY-COURT-STREET.

1828.

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS, TO WIT :

District Clerk's Office.

BE IT REMEMBERED, that on the twelfth day of March, A. D. 1828, in the
fifty-second year of the Independence of the United States of America, Wells and Lilly of
the said District, have deposited in this Office the title of a Book, the Right whereof they
claim as Proprietors, in the words following, to wit:

" The Life of Elbridge Gerry. With Contemporary Letters. To the close of the Ameri-
can Revolution. By James T. Austin."

In Conformity to the Act of the Congress of the United States, entitled, " An Act for
the encouragement of Learning, by securing the Copies of Maps, Charts, and Books, to the
Authors and Proprietors of such Copies, during the times therein mentioned :" and also to
an Act entitled, " An Act supplementary to an Act, entitled, An Act for the encourage-
ment of Learning, by securing the Copies of Maps, Charts, and Books, to the Authors and
Proprietors of such Copies during the times therein mentioned ; and extending the Benefits
thereof to the Arts of Designing, Engraving, and Etching Historical and other Prints."

JNO. W. DAVIS,
Ckrk of the District of Massachusetts

l fcc 1 ]

■

CONTENTS.

PAGE,

CHAPTER I.

Early Life Marblehead Elected to the General Court

of Massachusetts Correspondence with Samuel Adams I

CHAPTER II.

Re-elected to General Court Mr. Adams' Motion

Affairs in Marblehead 28

CHAPTER III.

Correspondence with Samuel Adams With the Com-
mittee of Donations - - - - - 43

CHAPTER IV.

The Provincial Congress of Massachusetts Mr. Gerry

elected a Member Its Character - - ■ - 52

CHAPTER V.

Measures of the Provincial Congress of 1774 Its Com-
mittees - - - - - . -58

CHAPTER VI.

Second Provincial Congress of Massachusetts Letters of

John Hancock ----- 64

CHAPTER VII.

Correspondence on the State of the Province with the Dele-
gates in Congress at Philadelphia - - - 77

CHAPTER VIII.

Joseph Warren Arrival of General Washington at Cam-
bridge Letters from the Massachusetts Delegates 84

VI CONTENTS.

FACE

CHAPTER IX.

First measure of Naval Warfare Correspondence with

John Adams - - - - - -92

CHAPTER X.

Appointed Judge of Admiralty in Massachusetts Letter

declining the Appointment Correspondence with Sam-
uel Adams Private Life of the Members of the Provin-
cial Congress - - - - - 111

CHAPTER XL

Elected to the Continental Congress Constitution and

Character of that Assembly .... 134

CHAPTER XII.

Member of the Committee of the Treasury State of

the Finances Paper Money Loan Offices Lot-
tery Foreign Loans Regulating Acts - 150

CHAPTER XIII.

First project of Independence Correspondence with

Major Hawley With General Warren Impedi-
ments in the way of Independence Independence de-
clared - - .... 167

CHAPTER XIV.

Letter communicating the Declaration of Independence

Received with joy in Massachusetts Character of the

Act Committee of Congress visit Camp Letter from

Head Quarters - 202

CHAPTER XV.

New commission as Delegate from Massachusetts Let-
ter of Robert Treat Paine Committee of Congress

sent to Camp Letter of General Washington of

General Warren Another Committee of Congress sent

to Camp - 218

CONTENTS. Vll

PACE

CHAPTER XVI.

Intrigue against the Commander in Chief. Massachu-
setts' Delegation vindicated from any share in this In-
trigue Correspondence with General Knox... Letter

from Francis Dana ----- 232

CHAPTER XVII.

Articles of Confederation Re-elected a member of Con-
gress Duties of the Committee of the Treasury

Other Committees of Congress Letters of General

Warren Mr. Otis Mr. Phillips General Lin-
coln Letters of the Tories - 249

CHAPTER XVIII.

Members of Congress constantly employed Further Let-
ters Supposed hostility to Massachusetts on the part

of some of the Leaders of the Revolution Massachu-
setts defended Dissensions in the Delegation - 274

CHAPTER XIX.

Letter from John Adams New measures of Hostility

threatened by the Enemy Mr. Gerry's resolutions on

the Fishery His Speech - 281

CHAPTER XX.

Appointment of a Minister to treat for Peace Conflict-
ing Claims of Candidates Letter of John Adams

Francis Dana - 294

CHAPTER XXI.

State of the Country in 1779-80 Correspondence with

General Washington Commission for establishing

Prices Letter of Samuel Adams of Judge Sulli-
van Re-chosen a Delegate in Congress General

Arnold's Accounts Letter concerning him - 304

Vlll CONTENTS.

PAGE

CHAPTER XXII.

Remonstrates against a Decision of Congress Leaves

Congress and prefers a Complaint to the General Court

of Massachusetts Resolve of the General Court

Remonstrance The Decision of Congress consider-
ed Pay of a Member of Congress State of the Cur-
rency Letter from John Adams Mode of Living at

Congress American Mail captured Mr. Lovell's

Letter to Mr. Gerry published by the Enemy Corre-
spondence with General Washington - - 319

CHAPTER XXIII.

Visits the American Camp by order of Congress Letter

describing it Elected to the Legislature of Massachu-
setts Letter of Samuel Adams Refuses commission

of Justice of the Peace Letter of John Adams - 345

CHAPTER XXIV.

Letter from Mr. Dana Resumes his Seat in Congress

Letters of John Adams Peace Committee to con-
sider its Terms Interviews between Congress and Gen-
eral Washington The Minister of France The Mar-
quis de la Fayette State of Public Affairs Salaries 373

CHAPTER XXV.

Correspondence of the Delegates Questions arising from

the Treaty of Peace Cincinnati Letters concern-
ing that Institution Military Establishment - 407

CHAPTER XXVI.

Correspondence with Mr. Jefferson Letter to the Legis-
lature of Massachusetts Letter from Mr. J. Adams

General de Lafayette Correspondence with General

Warren < - - - - - 450

CHAPTER XXVII.

Letters from Mr. John Adams Mr. Jefferson Mr.

Rufus King Leaves Congress Marriage - 472

PREFACE.

The subject of this memoir commenced his poli-
tical career under the royal government in Mas-
sachusetts, and continued in the public councils
almost to the close of the last war with Great
Britain. During this long period, he sustained
high and responsible offices, which peculiarly con-
nected him with " both the political ages of our
country."

In measures, which dissolved the power of the
British crown over the colony of Massachusetts ;
in the establishment of a new government by the
people ; in the declaration of independence by the
United States ; in the direction of the civil, mili-
tary, foreign and domestic concerns of the conti-
nent during the war of the revolution ; in arrange-
ments for the cessation of hostilities and in the

B

X PREFACE.

administration of affairs after the treaty of peace,
the individual of whose life some account is now
to be given, was conspicuously concerned.

In the convention to form a constitution for the
confederacy, which may be considered a new epoch
in the history of the United States, he attracted
no common share of public attention. At the or-
ganization of the federal government, he was a
member of the house of representatives ; during
the negotiations, which ended in the termination
of our treaties with France, he was engaged in an
important embassy to that power ; during the ex-
citement and agitation which preceded the second
war with England, he was at the head of the go-
vernment of Massachusetts, and through the great-
er part of that war presided over the senate of the
United States.

This connexion with distant and important
events in the history of his country, belongs al-
most exclusively to him. Four of his associates
in the colonial legislature and provincial congress
of Massachusetts were his colleagues in the con-
gress which declared the independence of the
United States, but neither of them were members
of the convention which prepared the federal con-
stitution. Of the whole number who signed the
declaration of independence, seven only were
members of the latter assembly. Again, the first

PREFACE. XI

and second congress under the new government
contained many individuals who had been distin-
guished in the civil or military service of the revo-
lution, and several who had assisted in forming
the present constitution, but the number of those
concerned in both these events was small. Time
rapidly made that number less, and when the sub-
ject of this memoir took the chair of the Common-
wealth of Massachusetts, few of his associates in
the revolution were in its councils ; at a subse-
quent period, when he presided in the senate of
the nation, he is believed to have been the only
individual, in any branch of the government, who
had been a member of the " immortal congress of
1776."

Two only of his colleagues of the revolution at-
tained an equal elevation under the constitution of
the United States. They passed indeed to a rank
one degree higher in its service ; but of these
eminent citizens one ceased to hold public office
about the commencement of the present century,
and the other retired in the year 1<>09. Subse-
quent to this latter period, Elbridge Gerry was
governour of Massachusetts, and died in 1814,
vice-president of the United States.

To enter into the service of the country while
a royal colony, to sign the declaration of independ-
ence, to assist in the forming of the constitution,

Xll PREFACE.

to be a party in the organization and first opera-
tions of the new government, to preside in the
councils of the state while those measures were in
progress which were preliminaries to another war,
and to participate in those of the nation, when
war had again commenced under circumstances
calculated to test the permanency of its institu-
tions and the fidelity of the people, is to have en-
gaged in a series of political measures which con-
nect themselves with the fortune of no other indi-
vidual.

To give some account of the life and character
of one whose name is associated with these great
events, is the object of the following pages. Em-
barrassments to this design have been severely felt
in the progress of a work, which, occupying only
the intervals of professional engagement, has been
laid aside, resumed and interrupted again, as pub-
lic and private avocations required or allowed.

To recount intelligibly the agency of any one
in the time of the revolution requires some reca-
pitulation of events, which have been too often
and too well written to preserve any longer the
interest of novelty. To present them, as far as
might be, in an original form, recourse has been
had to the epistolary correspondence of the times.
This gives somewhat of an intimate and confiden-
tial picture of transactions in which the writers

PREFACE. Xlll

were engaged. " The history of the revolution,"
it has been said by the highest authority, " is con-
tained in the letters of the revolution." Some of
these are now made public. Written, calamo cur-
rente, with no view to publication, they are not
subjects for exact criticism. They develope only
the patriotism of the writers. Of those more re-
cent events which occurred at and subsequent to
the formation of the constitution of the United
States, it is not easy to speak with sufficient im-
partiality at a time so near their accomplishment.
The irritation they excited has not subsided. The
storm of party violence may have ceased, but the
waves are not yet calm. The traces of a consum-
ing fire are still perceptible. The path lies

Per ignes
Suppositos ceneri doloso.

The prominent incidents in the life, which this
volume is intended to illustrate, occurred in times
of revolution, faction and party warfare. The
whiss and tories were not more vindictive than
the advocates and opponents of the constitution,
or than the factions who quarrelled about the trea-
ty of London and the war with France, or than
those who arranged themselves under party ban-
ners as republicans and federalists.

It was not possible that any man of decision of
character and personal independence should stand

XIV PREFACE.

well with all these irritated adversaries. In such
times every honourable man selects his side. The
consequence of a choice is the favour of one and
the enmity of the other.

The subject of this memoir enjoyed in a re-
markable degree the support of his political friends,
and had no patent of exemption from the fate,
which impended over the statesmen of his age.
Much of the malignity, with which he was assail-
ed, may be justly ascribed to a vindictive and vul-
gar spirit, but it is not to be doubted that many
measures of his public life seriously displeased the
leaders of a strong and powerful party, and induc-
ed them to believe they " did the state some ser-
vice" by diminishing the influence of his name.

To discriminate between defamation intended
merely to exasperate, and that estimate of conduct
which speaks sincerely in the language of re-
proach ; or between adulation, designed to exalt
the character of a leader, and praise which is the
honest sentiment of a gratified community, is not
always a practicable task. The duty of the bio-
grapher is doubtless to enable his readers to form
their own judgment by an impartial and dispas-
sionate narration of the facts that existed.

This and other considerations have induced the
publication, at the present time, of so much only

PREFACE. XV

of the life proposed to be written as was passed
during the revolution, a period about which, at this
day, there is a correct standard of opinion. The
residue is in progress, and may be given at some
future time to the public. It is the more willing-
ly deferred, because it is that part with which re-
cent enquirers into American history are in some
degree familiar.

Few of the reading population of the country
are unacquainted with the storms and tempests,
which shook the political atmosphere during the
period when Mr. Gerry was the minister of his
country near the directory of France, or was either
governour of Massachusetts, or a candidate for the
chair. None who have felt any interest in the
history of the nation, are ignorant of the porten-
tous events, which were connected with its ad-
ministration when he was vice-president of the
United States. His share in these scenes is in
a good degree understood. His labours in the
revolution are less extensively known. Hence
his character is more generally considered than it
ought to be, that of a party leader ; and his claims
to consideration are supposed to rest less on his
services as a patriot, than his zeal as a partisan.

The events narrated in this volume may correct
that impression and prove the validity of his title
to those large honours which his country bestowed

XVI PREFACE.

upon him. The period embraced in it is that
which an American may contemplate with the
highest feelings of national pride. Not only was
a great revolution successfully accomplished, and
those free institutions established whose effects on
the moral condition of man no spirit of prophecy
is yet competent to disclose, but the foundations
of the republic were laid deep and strong in na-
tional and private virtue, the only adequate sup-
port for the pillars of a temple consecrated to lib-
erty and the rights of man.

Boston, Massachusetts, 1828.

THE LITE

OF

ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER I.

Early Life Marblehead Elected to the General Court oj

Massachusetts Correspondence with Samuel Adams.

Elbridge Gerry was born at Marblehead, in
the state of Massachusetts, on the seventeenth
day of July 1744. His father, Thomas Gerry,
was a native of Newton, in England, of respect-
able parentage and connexions. In 1730 he emi-
grated to America, and afterwards married the
only daughter of Enoch Greenleaf, of Boston, a
gentleman of fortune, according to the opinion of
those days. Soon after his marriage, Mr. Gerry
established himself as a merchant in Marblehead,
where he continued to reside until his death in
1774. He was much esteemed and respected,
and received many marks of the confidence re-
2 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

posed in his judgment and discretion. Five chil-
dren survived him.

Elbridge, the subject of this memoir, was so
named in honour of a maternal ancestor. After
receiving the rudiments of education at the com-
mon town schools, he entered Harvard College
before he had completed his fourteenth year, and
received its first honours in 1 762.

Little is known of his early habits or manners.
He was too young at the university to have ac-
quired any decisive character. In the exercises
assigned to his class on receiving their master's
degree, and which, according to the fashion of the
times, were in the Latin language, a discussion
on the right of a people to disregard those re-
strictive laws which, under the form of revenue
laws, were destructive to commerce,* was assign-
ed to him.

Polemical divinity, or some abstruse metaphy-

* An prohibitionutn et vectigalium irmovatio, commercium
populo inutile reddens, ab iis qua subditis fidelibus evadenda sit?
Affirmat respondens Elbridge Gerry. Questiones pro modu-
lo descutiendse sub Reverendo D. Edvardo Holyoke Collegii
Harvardini Quod est Divina Providentia Cantabrigire Nov-An-
glorum, preside in coinmitiis publicis a Laureos Magistralis
candidatis decimo sexto Calendarum sextilis MDCCLXV.

The same paper contains also the following question. An
regni legislatores modum legislationis fundatutn mutare jure
possint. Negat respondens. Francis Dana.

This Mr. Dana was the future distinguished chief justice of
the state of Massachusetts.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 3

sical question, had been hitherto the chief subject
of college exercise. Political enquiry then be-
gan to excite attention ; and new topics, which
warmed the public mind, could not long be kept
from the discussion of the schools. The theses
of that year show the innovation which was be-
ginning to be made on ancient habits, and strange-
ly mingle matters of abstruse learning with modern
doctrines of political interest. How the latter
were discussed, the ephemeral occasion prevents
us from ascertaining ; that they were discussed
at all, shows the first glimmering of that light,
which was about to throw its effulgence over the
country.

Mr. Gerry was at first destined to the profession
of medicine, to which his own inclination strongly
attached him ; but soon after leaving the univer-
sity he engaged in commercial affairs, by the wish
and under the direction of his father, and for some
years followed the routine of mercantile business
in his native town. The products of the ocean
constituted the chief wealth of that ancient and
respectable place. In these, all had a common
interest ; but the inhabitants were principally di-
vided into two classes, Fishermen and Merchants.
The latter, among whom were some families of
great wealth, were pursuing a bold and adventur-
ous commerce wherever the embarrassments of
the French war did not present insurmountable
difficulties, or the no less vexatious restrictions of

4 LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY.

the mother country did not tie down the natural
spirit of activity and enterprise.

Marblehead was at that period not merely a
principal fishing town, but nearly approached the
capital in the extent and value of its trade, which,
notwithstanding the troubles of the times, was
singularly lucrative. The most numerous part of
its population were fishermen, and their peculiari-
ties of character gave to Marblehead the reputa-
tion by which it has been most commonly distin-
guished. The sea furnished them with the ma-
terial of traffic ; without pecuniary capital they
depended on personal exertion, and supplied by
industry, what was wanting in wealth. Early
inured to danger, they found in the hazards and
obstacles of their perilous mode of life only in-
ducements for activity and diligence.

The male part of this population was engaged
for most of the year on the ocean, while the wo-
men and children were left on shore in a sort of
primitive and patriarchal community. General
equality of condition and common wants prevent-
ed any claim of superiority, and produced a social
feeling, which united most of them in one great
family.

With no great advantages of education, the
fishermen of Marblehead were generally distin-
guished by good sense and sound judgment, pro-
duced by their early habits of self-dependence,
and the necessity which their course of life en-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 5

forced of quick discernment, forethought, and de-
cision. Separated in a good degree from tempta-
tions by which other classes of society are sur-
rounded, they were characterized by their energy,
integrity and sobriety. Little of the artificial re-
finement of polished life was to be found in their
society ; but its place was more than compensat-
ed by their generous hospitality, their sincerity
and benevolence.

Such were the men among whom Mr. Gerry
was born, and with whom in early life he was in
many respects associated, and to the influence
which they would naturally exert, controlled and
modified as it was by his superiour education, col-
lege associations, and family possessions, may be
traced some of those conspicuous traits, which
wrere afterwards developed in his character.

The bold and adventurous are lovers of liberty.
It was to be expected, therefore, and the fact an-
swered this expectation, that in the controversy
between the colonies and Great Britain, the in-
habitants of Marblehead should early display their
attachment to the cause of their country. The
resistance, which began in the capital, was
promptly and efficiently encouraged by these cou-
rageous citizens, who entered with the natural ar-
dour of their disposition, into all the measures
which were devised for the protection of the pro-
vince. These measures were rapidly assuming a
livelier and deeper interest. The operations of

6 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

commerce became more embarrassed by the vexa-
tious orders of the British government, and those
minds among the colonists which superiour intelli-
gence had illumined, or education had matured,
were gradually drawn from the paths of interest
to the labours of patriotism, and diverted as well
by inclination as duty, from objects of personal
emolument to the service of the State.

The strong political excitement of the times
failed not to have its interest with Mr. Gerry. It
soon attracted his attention from the compting
house, where, during the short period of his en-
gagement, he appears to have been eminently suc-
cessful, and terminated his connexion with a pro-
fession to which he had little partiality. In the
intervals of public employment he did indeed oc-
casionally resume the avocation, but as might be
supposed, when not steadily pursued, with no great
satisfaction or advantage ; and, after a few years,
he finally abandoned it for other objects more con-
genial to his mind.

Mr. Gerry made his first appearance in public
life as a representative of his native town in the
general court of the province of Massachusetts,
in May 1772, a period when the royal govern-
ment and the people were in a high state of ani-
mosity, and almost of open collision.

Samuel Adams was then a member of the gen-
eral court for the capital, and in the full posses-
sion of those extraordinary powers which placed

LIFE OF ELBRIIJGE GERRY. 7

him both in the view of the people and the gov-
ernment as the controlling genius of the storm.
The decided principles and the enthusiasm of his
new associate connected them together in bonds
of friendship, which continued with increasing in-
timacy to the close of that great patriot's life.

The opening scenes of the political drama
were made interesting by a succession of inci-
dents, which called forth all the skill and talent
of the distinguished actors, whose perfect per-
formance of their arduous parts has challenged the
admiration of mankind. The first matter of mo-
ment of that political year was an attempt on the
part of the English ministry to change the mode
of compensation for the judicial department of the
colonies, or rather a rumour that such a change
was projected. This intention was at once as-
cribed to a corrupt inclination to render the admin-
istration of the laws subservient to the personal
views of the ministry, and under the prudent ad-
vice of the popular leaders in the colony became
a signal for very active resistance. Meetings of
the inhabitants were called in Boston and other
large towns, for the purpose of creating a general
sentiment and giving it suitable effect ; and the
influence of those who aspired to any distinction
in the approaching contest, was exerted to for-
ward the views of more advanced champions,
who already had marked a line of division be-

8 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

tween the claims of the mother country and the
rights of their own.

The projected innovation with regard to the
judiciary of Massachusetts, gave rise to the fol-
lowing correspondence.

MR. GERRY TO MR. ADAMS.

Marblehead, Oct. 27, 1772.

Sir,

That the judges of our superiour courts should
be rendered independent of the people of this pro-
vince, is a matter so alarming, that its consequen-
ces are at once seen by every considerate mind.
It would be unbecoming the wisdom of this peo-
ple, to suffer their lesser offices of trust to be sup-
plied by any other persons than such as are well
affected to the general interest. How blind must
we be, then, to suffer the superiour judges, who are
in a great measure the arbiters of our interest,
liberty, and lives, to be men in whom we place no
confidence !

It is no longer matter of doubt, that the minis-
try are determined to deprive us of our constitu-
tional rights, and by that means to accomplish
their ulteriour object of getting at our property ;
and can we confide in judges who have connexion
with our most inveterate enemies ; who have not
bare connexions, but dependence ? I hope, sir, we
have virtue enough to withstand it.

liff of elbridge gerry. 9

I observe you have taken up the matter in Bos-
ton, and we should be glad to second you, but for
some difficulties which we want your opinion
upon. It is uncertain with us, whether the sala-
ries are confirmed ; whether they have been ac-
cepted, or if accepted, whether the judges, know-
ing how disagreeable it will prove to the people,
will not revoke their design. When these mat-
ters are determined, we can proceed with propri-
ety, and should the salaries be received (which D.
V*). I hope we shall not leave the subject until
the grievance is redressed, and I think I am war-
ranted to say for this town, you will ever find it
ready in attention with interest or life.

I remain, with esteem, &c.

E. Gerry.
Mr. Adams.

MR. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, October 27, 1772.

Sir,
I have just now received your favour, dated this
day. I am perfectly of your opinion with regard
to the independency of the judges. It is a mat-
ter beyond doubt in my mind. I was told yester-
day, by one of his majesty's council, that Mr.
Hutchinson has a letter by the packet, from Ber-

* Deus Vetat.
10 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

nard, which advises him of it as a fact. This
town is to meet to-morrow, to consider what is
proper for them to do. We have looked upon it
as of so interesting a nature to us, that even the
report should alarm us. It is proposed by many
among us to apply to the judges for their explicit
declaration, whether they will accept of so odious
a support, and to apply also to the governour for a
general assembly forthwith. I will write you on
Thursday, and let you know the event. Our ene-
mies would intimidate us, by saying our brethren
in the other towns are indifferent about this matter,
for which reason I am particularly glad to receive
your letter at this time. Roxbury, I am told, is
thoroughly awake. I wish we could arouse the
continent.

I write in the utmost haste,

And am, with great esteem,

Sir, your most humble serv't,

Samuel Adams.

MR. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, October 29, 1772.

My Dear Sir,
I wrote you in great haste on Tuesday last.
Since which, the freeholders and other inhabitants
of this town have had a meeting, to enquire into

LIFE OF ELB1UDGE GERRY. 11

the grounds of the report, that the salaries of the
judges are fixed and paid by order of the crown,
and to determine upon such measures as should be
proper for them to take upon so alarming an oc-
casion. The enclosed paper contains a short but
true account of their proceedings. It is proposed
by some, to petition the governour to order a ses-
sion of the general assembly, and that the town
should expressly declare their natural and charter
rights to their representatives, and the instances
in which they have been violated, peremptorily
requiring them to take every step which the con-
stitution prescribes, to redress our grievances ; or
if every such step has been already taken, to in-
form their constituents, that they may devise such
measures as they may see their way clear to take,
or patiently bear the yoke. I will acquaint you
with the proceedings of the town as they pass. In
the mean time, I wish your town would think it
proper to have a meeting, which may be most
seasonable at this time ; for as the superiour
court is to be held at Salem next week, you will
have an opportunity of making a decent applica-
tion to them, and enquiring of the certainty of
the report, and other matters mentioned in your
letter to me ; which enquiry will be more natural-
ly made to them, in case the governour should de-
cline answering the message of this town, or do
it, if I may be allowed the expression, equivocal-
ly. This country must shake off their intolerable

12 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

burdens at all events. Every day strengthens our
oppressors and weakens us. If each town would
declare its sense of these matters, I am persuaded
our enemies would not have it in their power to
divide us, in which they have all along shown their
dexterity. Pray use your influence in Salem, and
other towns. — But I am now going with our com-
mittee to his excellency. Shall be glad of a letter
from you. Your last, I read to the town, to their
great satisfaction, though I concealed the name of
its worthy author.

I am, with great esteem,
Sir, your humble servant,

Samuel Adams.
Elbridge Gerry, Esq.

MR. GERRY TO MR. ADAMS.

Marblehead, November 2, 1772.

Dear Sir,
Your agreeable favours of 27th and 29th ult.,
have just come to hand. I observe what is doing
in your city, and what you are desirous of having
done in this and the neighbouring towns ; being
fully convinced, and acquiescing entirely in your
opinion, that unanimity in our measures is neces-
sary, and the only means by which we can save
ourselves. " United we stand, divided we fall."

LIFE OF ELMIIDGE GERRY. 18

As in all or most human affairs a successful
beginning invigorates the proceedings, and carries
them on in triumph, it appears necessary that a
plan should be conceited for the whole to act
upon, and so concerted, that if it should prove
unsuccessful, individuals, who have had virtue
enough to oppose the designs of the great, may
not fall a sacrifice to their rage or ridicule, but
have this for their boast, that they have struggled
for and with an honest people.

If you will give me leave to speak my private
sentiments upon your proceedings, at your last
meeting, both with the deference due to the wis-
dom of your community, and the freedom of a
person anxious in the cause, I will observe, that
in a free state, the measure of petitioning the
governour for an assembly, would not only have
been rational, but might have ensured success.
Salus populi is the object at which the supreme
legislature must aim, and the existence of a go-
vernour (in that capacity) would depend on his
having the same point in view. He would natu-
rally have listened to the first proposal from the
metropolis, and either have removed groundless
fears, or called an assembly to have made known
their grievances. This would have been the case
in a free state. We are not in that condition.
We have in a great measure lost our glory, and
therefore I fear that all applications to those who
are our oppressors, will not only be fruitless, but

14 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

serve to hurt our cause, and discourage us. Our
whole dependence, as a people, is on our own
wisdom and valour ; and if a plan wherein, as I
before observed, all can come to act, should be
devised, I doubt not it will succeed.

It is previously necessary, as you propose, to
know of the judges, whether they will accept or
not, and if we have not opportunity, as an assem-
bly, to have their peremptory answer to this ques-
tion, it appears most proper for a committee from
Boston, united with committees from two or three
other towns, to wait on them, and in case of an
equivocal answer, to look upon it they do intend
accepting, and to proceed accordingly.

Should this step, taken by only one town, be
treated by the judges with indignity, it would
prove discouraging, when in conjunction with se-
veral other towns it would have the contrary ef-
fect, and serve to animate the whole province.

It appears to me the process is plain, when once
this point is determined. When Mr. Pratt was
appointed chief judge of New- York, the people
were disgusted, and treated him in such manner,
that it shortened his life ; and should Boston enter
into some spirited resolves respecting the judges,
precluding them and their posterity from every
honour and office that could be conferred on them
by the people, holding them up to shame, and
withholding every connexion with their families
and associates ; should these be published in the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 15

newspapers, and each town in the province be de-
sired to express their sense of the matter, in the
same public way, I doubt not the judges would
come to terms, and replace their dependence on
the people ; but I do not so much depend on my
own opinion, as I shall on your deliberate senti-
ments, being with great respect and esteem,
Dear sir, your most obedient

And humble servant,

Elbridge Gerry.

MR. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, Nov. 5, 1772.

My Dear Sir,
I received with pleasure your letter of the 2d
instant. I was sure you could not but be of opin-
ion that unanimity, in the measures taken by the
friends of the country, is of the utmost import-
ance. I must, with great deference to your judg-
ment think, that even in our wretched state, the
mode of petitioning the governour will have a good
effect. I was aware that his answers would be
in the same high tone in which we find them ex-
pressed ; yet our requests have been so reasonable,
that in refusing to comply with them, he must
have put himself in the wrong, in the opinion of
every honest and sensible man ; the consequence

16 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

of which will be, that such measures as the people
may determine upon to save themselves, if ration-
al and manly, will be the more reconcileable even
to cautious minds, and thus we may expect that
unanimity which we wish for.

I have the satisfaction of enclosing the last pro-
ceedings of our town-meeting, in which I think
you will perceive a coincidence with your own
judgment, in a plan concerted for the whole to
act upon. Our timid sort of people are discon-
certed, when they are positively told that the
sentiments of the country are different from those
of the city : therefore a free communication with
each town will serve to ascertain this matter ; and
when once it appears beyond contradiction, that
we are united in sentiments, there will be a confi-
dence in each other, and a plan of opposition will
be easily formed, and executed with spirit. In such
a case (to return, with entire approbation, your
own language,) those " who have virtue enough to
oppose the wicked designs of the great, will have
this for their boast, that they have struggled for
and with an honest people."

I was at first of your opinion, that "it would
be most proper for a committee from Boston, unit-
ed with committees from two or three other towns,
to wait on the judges," &c, and I mentioned it to
several gentlemen of the neighbouring towns, who
approved of it, but so much caution prevails, that
they suspected whether their respective towns

LIFE OF ELBKIDGE GERRY. 1?

would stir, till Boston had given the lead ; (a
needless compliment to the capital). This turn-
ed our thoughts to the measures taken by the
town, and led me to conceive hopes, that as the
superiour court would be soon sitting in Salem,
Marblehead and other towns in that county would
come into such a proposal.

I take notice of what you observe, " that our
whole dependence as a people seems to be on our own
wisdom and valour,1'' in which I fully ngrce with
you. It puts me in mind of a letter I received
not long ago, from a friend of mine of some note,
in London, wherein he says, " your whole depend-
ence, under God, is upon your own virtue (valour.)
I know of no noblemen in this kingdom, who care
any thing about you, except lords Chatham and
Shelburne, and you would do well to be watchful
even of them."

I earnestly wish that the inhabitants of Mar-
blehead and other towns would severally meet,
and if they see cause, among other measures
second this town, and appoint a committee to be
ready to communicate with ours. This would at
once discover an union of sentiments thus far, and
have its influence on other towns. It would at
least show that Boston is not wholly deserted,
and might prevent " its falling a sacrifice to the
rage or ridicule of our (common) enemies."

18 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

I shall be pleased with your further sentiments,
and am, in strict truth,

Sir, your affectionate friend,
And humble servant,

Samuel Adams.
Elbridge Gerry, Esq.

MR. GERRY TO MR. ADAMS.

Marblehead, Nov. 10, 1772.

Dear Sir,

In answer to your esteemed favour of the 5th
instant, I think the friends of liberty here will be
able to hand you something soon, that will give a
spring to your proceedings, although there are
not wanting persons of considerable influence in
the opposition.

The steps taken by our vigilant metropolis, I am
well assured will succeed ; but should they fail,
the merit of those worthies, who oppose the strides
of tyranny, will not be diminished ; neither would
their being overpowered by numbers alter the he-
roism of their conduct.

I should have been glad, had the word christian
in your resolves, been omitted. That the clergy
may be engaged in our cause, and open the eyes
of the people to oppression, it may not be amiss
to hint at the church innovations, and the estab-

LIFE OF ELBRTDGE GERRY. 19

lishment of those tyrants in religion, bishops, which
will probably take place.

I remain your friend,

E. Gerry.

MR. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, Nov. 14, 1772.

My Dear Sir,
Your letter of the 10th instant did not come to
my hand till this evening. It is a great satisfac-
tion to me, to be assured from you, that the friends
to liberty in Marblehead are active, and that there
is like to be a town-meeting there. Our commit-
tee are industrious, and I think I may promise
you they will be ready to report to the town in
two or three days, so that if your town should
think proper to make an adjournment for ten days,
or a fortnight, they will doubtless by that time, if
not before, have an opportunity of acting upon our
resolutions. I am sorry, when any of our pro-
ceedings are not exactly according to your mind ;
the word you object to in our resolves was design-
ed to introduce into our state of grievances, " the
church innovations and the establishment of those
tyrants, bishops," which, as you observe, will pro-
bably take place. I cannot but hope, when you
consider how indifferent too many of the clergy

20 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

are to our just and righteous cause, that some of
them_are the adulators of our oppressors, and even
some of the best of them are extremely cautious
of recommending, at least in their public perform-
ances, the rights of their country to the protection
of Heaven, lest they should give offence to the
little gods on earth, you will judge it quite neces-
sary that we should assert and vindicate our rights
as christians, as well as men and subjects.

The town of Roxbury are to meet on Monday
next, and a great number in Cambridge have sub-
scribed a petition to their selectmen for a meeting
there. I have received a letter from a gentleman
of influence in Plymouth, who is pleased to say,
he thinks the general plan adopted here will pro-
duce great consequences, if supported with spirit
in the country ; and that he believes there will be
no difficulty in getting a meeting there, and carry-
ing the point in seconding this town ; he tells me,
the pulse of his fellow-townsmen beat high, and
their resentment, he supposes, is equal to that of
any other town. May God grant, that the love of
liberty, and a zeal to support it, may enkindle in
every town. If our enemies should see the flame
bursting in different parts of the country, and dis-
tant from each other, it might discourage their at-
tempts to damp and quench it. I am well assured
they are alarmed at the measure now taking, being
greatly apprehensive of the same consequences
from it, which our good friend at Plymouth hopes

LIFE OF ELP.RIDGE GERRY. 21

and expects. This should animate us in carrying
it into execution. I beg you would exert your
utmost influence in your neighbouring towns and
elsewhere. I hear nothing of old Salem ; I fear
they have had an opiate administered to them. I
am told there has been a consultation there, a cabal
in which his excellency presided. Pray let me be
still favoured with your letters, and be assured that
I am sincerely Your friend,

Samuel Adams.
Elhridge Gerry, Esq.

MR. GERRY TO MR. ADAMS.

Marblehead, Nov. 2G, 1772.

Dear Sir,

On the other side is a copy of the petition,
which is to come under the consideration of this
town on Tuesday next, being signed by a number
of freeholders. All sensibility has not departed
from the province. Hope is revived and must be
kept alive.

As our oppressors succeed very much by having
the several assemblies on the continent either an-
nihilated by dissolutions, or suspended by proro-
gation, it is proposed to have a committee of
grievances, to act at all times when the assembly
is prevented from meeting. They are to employ
themselves in inventing when one method fails

22 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

another method for having our grievances redress-
ed, communicate their sentiments to a grand com-
mittee at Boston to receive proposals for opposi-
tion, and to communicate such as are approved to
their respective towns, and to continue this method
undauntingly until some means are found effectual
and oppression is removed. Pray let me be in-
formed how this is viewed.

The bare method of instructing representatives
I conceive to be inadequate. The house has ever
faithfully discharged its duty to the full satisfaction
of its constituents. It seems to me to be impo-
tent. The more we contemplate matters, the
more there is to alarm us. We must find some
way to overawe our adversaries.

I remain, &c.

E. Gerry.

Mr. Adams.

MR. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, Dec. 7, 1772.

My Dear Sir,
I have just received your's of the 26th Novem-
ber, and take the earliest opportunity to acknow-
ledge it. I shall lay it before our committee as

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 23

soon as may be. Hope you have had a happy
meeting this day, and rest with esteem,

Sir, your friend,

Samuel Adams.
Monday, 10 o'clock evening.
Elbridge Gerry, Esq.

MR. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, Dec. 23, 1772.

My Dear Sir,
The further proceedings of the truly patriotic
town of Marblehead, together with your own es-
teemed favours of the 16th and 21st *instant,
came to my hand in due season. The proceed-
ings I immediately communicated to our chair-
man ; and from your hint that it was thought
proper to suspend the publication, together with
assurances of letters from some other towns speed-
ily, we agreed also to suspend the calling a meet-
ing of our committee, which however will be done
soon. Agreeably to the intimations in your last
I find in the Essex Gazette a, — what shall I call
it ? a disapprobation, to use their own term, sign-
ed by a Jew men, of the proceedings of a whole
town. If " in fact there was but about twenty

* Covering proceedings of the town of Marblehead, and the
Essex Gazette, newspaper.

24 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

persons who voted at the meeting" and all the
rest were against the measure, I wonder much
that they did not follow the example of so eminent
a person as the single dissentient and outvote you
when they had it in their power. Or why could
not the twenty-nine disapprobators have attended
the meeting the second time and prevented your
taking such measures from which they " are ap-
prehensive the town will incur a great deal of
public censure" ? This would indeed have been
meritorious. I am a stranger to most of the gen-
tlemen who have thus signalized themselves ; Mr.
Mansfield I once thought a zealous whig, perhaps
I was mistaken. After all, the whole seems to
be but a weak effort ; their third reason appears
to me so excessively puerile, that I am surprised
that gentlemen of character could deliberately set
their hands to it.

Your last proceedings sent to us in manuscript
are attested by the town clerk. I am sorry to
observe that the printed copy in the Essex Ga-
zette is without his attestation, because an advan-
tage may be made of it in our Court Gazette to
lessen its credit and authority ; to prevent which
I intend the next Monday's papers shall have it
from the manuscript unless (which I cannot much
expect) I shall be otherwise advised by you.

I was thinking that you might turn the tables
upon your disapprobating friends, by getting a
much larger subscription from persons who were

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 25

not at the meeting and approve of the proceedings.
Whether it be prudent or worth while to try this
method you must certainly be a better judge than
I am.

The tools of power, little and great, are taking
unwearied pains to prevent the meeting of the
towns, but they do not succeed altogether to their
wishes. I cannot help entertaining some sanguine
hopes that the measures we have pursued will
have a happy event.

I am, with due regard,

Sir, your humble servant,

Samuel Adams.
Elbridge Gerry, Esq.

MR. GERRY TO MR. ADAMS.

Maeblehead, Dec. 30, 1772.

Dear Sir,
Your esteemed favour of the 23d is just arriv-
ed, and contains some hints which would have
been serviceable, had the letter obtained a quicker
conveyance. However, we have here little or no
difficulty with the enemies of our constitution, and
have endeavoured in the last Essex Gazette to cor-
rect the virulence of the protest, if its weakness
did not leave the community without danger of
being disordered by it.
26 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

I observe we are to have a session soon, and
the acting metropolis and towns have probably
produced it ; nevertheless, I hope they will go on,
as his excellency designs to stop the corresponding
committee. They are good outguards, and there
is reason to expect great services from them ; they
are great troubles to the tories, as appears by the
papers.

The whigs here are very happy in falling in
with your sentiments, as will appear when their
reply shall fall into your hands.

I remain, with great sincerity and esteem,

Dear Sir,

Elbridge Gerry.

Samuel Adams, Esq.

A minute and extensive correspondence was
maintained by the patriots of that day on the con-
stantly recurring questions of popular rights in
which the interests of the province were discussed,
measures of resistance determined, and a common
sentiment excited among the people, which secur-
ed on proper occasions a wonderful unanimity both
of acts and expression.

Without the authority or emoluments of office
men of education and character voluntarily devot-
ed themselves to incessant and indefatigable la-
bour, and left no effort unattempted which could

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 27

inform or encourage the people. Their instruc-
tions were every where received as orders, and
their requests as laws. As the power of the magis-
tracy was diminished that of voluntary patriotism
acquired strength. Resistance was organized, di-
rected, limited and controlled ; and rebellion, which
might then almost be said to have commenced,
had none of the extravagance of anarchy in the
hazardous period of its inception.

Mr. Gerry entered into the arrangements of the
leaders of the province with his natural ardour,
and devoted himself to the occasion with a perse-
verance and assiduity which could have left him
little opportunity for other concerns.

A committee of correspondence was that year
established at Marblehead, which maintained a
regular intercourse with the great central commit-
tee at Boston and with other distinguished agents
of the people, the chief labour of which devolved
on Mr. Gerry.

28 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER II.

Re-elected to General Court Mr. Adams' Motion Affairs

in Marblehead.

In May 1773, Mr. Gerry was re-elected a
member of the general court. On the organiza-
tion of the government, the reply of the house of
burgesses of Virginia to the proceedings of Bos-
ton and other towns of Massachusetts in the pre-
ceding autumn, was communicated to the house
of representatives.

On the communication of this important mea-
sure Mr. Samuel Adams made his celebrated mo-
tion " for the appointment of a standing commit-
tee of correspondence and enquiry on the commu-
nication of the truly respectable house of bur-
gesses of his majesty's ancient colony of Virginia,
enclosing a copy of resolves entered into by them
on March 12, 1773."

Whether " the merit of originating this power-
ful engine of resistance" belongs to Virginia, as is
claimed for her by the elegant biographer of
Patrick Henry, or was proposed by Massachusetts
three years before, as is contended by one of her
recent historians, or whether the measure was
adopted so nearly at the same time by both states

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 29

that one could not have borrowed it from the
other, according to the suggestion of a writer of
high authority, is a question which, however hon-
ourable to the emulation which proposed it, time
has rendered it difficult to decide.

It is certain however that from this period
committees of correspondence were duly ap-
pointed, and formed a regular channel of intelli-
gence by which the spirit of patriotism was in-
vigorated, and extended from one end of the conti-
nent to the other. Every where the most active
and intelligent citizens were placed on these com-
mittees ; and in the house of representatives of
Massachusetts, Mr. Gerry, though one of the
youngest members, was associated in this honour-
able service with the veteran statesmen and mas-
ter spirits of the time.

•

* The movement of these committees is indicated in the letter
subjoined.

Mr. Cushing to Mr. Gerry.

Boston, Sept. 29, 1773.

Sir,
I am desired to notify you that the committee of correspond-
ence, of which you are a member, are to meet at the represen-
tatives' chamber on Wednesday the 20th October next, at 10
o'clock, A. M. to consider of some matters of importance, and
more especially to consider whether it will be expedient for the
committee to write to the committees of correspondence in other
governments to consult and agree upon one form of conduct
with respect to any requisitions for aid that may be made upon

30 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

In addition to the standing committee of cor-
respondence and enquiry, another committee was
appointed at the same session to prepare an ad-
dress to the provinces, of which committee Mr.
Gerry was a member, with Mr. Adams, Mr. Han-
cock, and Major Hawley. — The address prepared
in obedience to their instructions was published
by the committee in the October of that year ;
and breathes a spirit of confidence and determina-
tion, to have been expected from the ardent char-
acter of its authors.

At this session of the legislature certain letters
of Governour Hutchinson and Lieutenant Gover-
nour Oliver to persons in England, written in
17(58-9, and intended, as was supposed, to en-
courage the administration in maintaining their
arbitrary measures, were procured and laid before
the house, who voted that " their tendency and
design was to overthrow the constitution of this
government, and introduce arbitrary power into
the province."

Mr. Gerry distinguished himself in the debates
which ensued on the disclosure of these letters,
and was indefatigably engaged through the year

the colonies in case of a war. Your attendance at the time and
place hefore mentioned is earnestly requested.

Your most humble servant,

Thomas Cushing.

P. S. It is thought it will not be best to mention abroad the
particular occasion of this meeting.
Mr. Elbridge Gerry.

LIFE OF ELBRIDCE GERRY. 31

in the numerous duties which devolved on those,
who aspired at that portentous period to give a
just direction to the public mind.

The claims of patriotism were not then confin-
ed to the mere performance of official duty. The
committees of correspondence carefully communi-
cated whatever events were interesting to the
country, and organized a government among the
people independent of and often at variance with
the royal authority in the province.

The first alarm about the tea is thus unfolded.

DR. CHURCH TO MR. CERRY.

Boston, Dec. 31, 1773.

Sir,
The committee of correspondence being con-
vened by desire of the committee of Charlestown,
to determine (if feasible) upon the total disuse of
teas, both English and Holland ; and being now
engaged upon this important debate, have directed
me to acquaint you that the information you this
morning received respecting the conduct of the
southern colonics in regard to the teas is strictly
true, having authentic information as far as South
Carolina of their firm resolution not to admit that
baleful commodity among them, of which you
may rest assured ; the particulars you will find in

32 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the Spy, and further confirmed by the Court Ga-
zette of this day. We congratulate you on this
firm union of the colonies, a sure presage that a
corrupt and arbitrary administration with a venal
parliament at their beck will never enslave Ameri-
cans. We shall seasonably communicate to you
such intelligence as we shall receive, and in the
mean time would encourage you from the present
happy prospects not to be depressed or discourag-
ed by the arts of our enemies.
I remain, Sir,

Your most obedient humble servant,

Benja. Church, Jun.*

By order of the committee of correspondence
for the town of Boston.

Elbridge Geri'y, Esq.

* If there is any exception to the invariable integrity of
the American civil officers, it is in the case of the writer of
this letter. Dr. Church was an eminent physician of Boston,
a member of the general court from the capital, and one of
the committee of safety. He enjoyed the confidence and es-
teem of the patriots with whom he was associated until
October 1775, when he was charged and convicted before a
military tribunal of holding illicit intercourse with the enemy ;
and in consequence of such conviction was expelled from the
provincial congress. It does not appear that he was bribed
into this treasonable conduct, and the motive which induced him
to so extraordinary an act, and one so inconsistent with his
former character, remains in obscurity. Mr. Bradford in his
useful history of Massachusetts, remarks, " after some time the
letter which had been intercepted, but which no one could in-
terpret to whom it was first shown, was decyphered by the
learned and reverend Dr. West, of Dartmouth." This is a mis-
take. Before the letter was submitted to Dr. West, it was decy-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 33

In May 1774, Mr. Gerry declined a re-election
to the general court, and resigned the situation
which he held as a member of the committee of
correspondence in Marblehead. An unfortunate
and disgraceful occurrence in that town induced
him and other leading characters of the place to
retire from public concerns.

In the preceding year the inhabitants were
alarmed by the breaking out of the small pox, a
disease dreaded like the plague by most of the
villages in New-England, and justly considered
among the most awful visitations of providence.

To prevent the prevalence of infection Mr.
Gerry and several other gentlemen of property,
having first obtained permission from the munici-
palities of Marblehead and Salem, erected an hos-
pital on an island in the harbour, where all per-
sons liable to the disease were to be received and
inoculated. As the building was not large enough
to accommodate all the subjects at one time, it
was intended to receive them in classes.

phered by Mr. Gerry, and a copy transmitted to Mr. R. T. Paine,
one of the delegation from Massachusetts, at Philadelphia. The
circumstance gave great offence to the military gentlemen in
whose custody Dr. Church was confined, and some notes passed
on the occasion, which were not of the most pacific kind.
This anecdote might well enough have escaped the learned his-
torian's research, but there is an omission through the volume
of a proper notice of the subject of this memoir, which, if not
studiously intended, seems at least as if it was occasioned by
a recollection of the events of a later time, in which the parties
were brought into unhappy collision.
34 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

To arrange the right to priority, jealousy and
dissatisfaction were unfortunately excited. The
poorer people thought themselves neglected. It
became difficult to preserve patients from con-
nexion with persons abroad. Some persons
caught the infection at the hospital and carried it
to town. The establishment was thereupon de-
cried. Instead of being as it in fact was, a safe-
guard from general contagion, it was represented
as a nursery of disease and pestilence ; and in a
moment of excitement and passion the building
was set on fire by a mob, and with all its furniture
totally consumed.

This act of violence following soon after the
destruction of the tea in the harbour of Boston,
was urged by the advocates of the ministry as the
natural effect of a bad example, and was held up
as the evidence of the feeble security which prop-
erty would possess under the direction of a popu-
lar government.

To the friends of the people this lawless act
was peculiarly mortifying. Every where and on
all occasions they had inculcated a strict observ-
ance of order, regularity and peace. It was their
policy to show that the community needed not
the restraints of law to prove themselves good
citizens, and it was with extreme regret that in a
place considered as patriotic as Marblehead a dis-
graceful scene of riot and ruin should have been
exhibited, which could not fail to be turned to

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 35

their disadvantage in the great contest, in which
they were beginning to engage.

The perpetrators and abettors of the act waited
only the return of their usual judgment to be
heartily ashamed of the outrage, and deeply to
lament the unfair advantage which it gave to the
friends of the ministry.

To justify themselves, or at least to diminish
the odium of the act, faults were alleged in the
management of the hospital. The establishment
was a novel one. It was too limited for general
accommodation. Distinctions were to be made in
the selection of patients, while those who were
delayed fancied themselves abandoned to danger
and death. When a whole family could not be
received the anxiety of parents led them to remove
their children to this place of refuge ; and the
same anxiety induced them to visit the island,
although at the hazard of taking or of communi-
cating to others the infection, which should have
been confined to the hospital.

While those who were excluded complained of
the principle of selection, those who were ad-
mitted found the crowded rooms of a hospital not
a very desirable exchange for their residence at
home. The physicians were worn out with duty,
nurses were not sufficiently numerous, deaths oc-
curred among those who were inoculated as well
as among those who received the disease by con-
tagion ; and an experiment which was made with

36 LIFE OF ELBIUDGE GERRY.

the fairest motives, at much trouble and very great
expense, became the source of vexation, failure
and disappointment. Crimination and recrimina-
tion followed, until the proprietors of the building,
who had not only lost their property but consider-
ed themselves grossly defamed, threw up their
public employments, and threatened to leave the
town.

A circumstance of this kind, calculated as it
was to weaken the popular party by depriving it
of the aid of one of the principal towns, and of
some of the most active agents in the great mea-
sures of resistance, brought an admonitory letter
from Samuel Adams, who, like the father of the
faithful, guarded with unceasing watchfulness eve-
ry avenue to danger, and a remonstrance from the
committee of correspondence at the capital whose
power derived from patriotism and public duty
carried irresistable weight.

MR. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, March 25, 1774.

My Dear Sir,
While the general court was sitting I received
a letter from you relating to the unhappy circum-
stances the town of Marblehead was then in ; but
a great variety of business, some of which was

LIFE OF ELB1UDGE GERRY. 37

very important, prevented my giving you a con-
vincing proof at that time, of the regard with
which I am ever disposed to treat your favours.
Besides, if it had been in my power to have aided
you with advice, I flattered myself, from the in-
formation I afterwards had, that the storm, though
it raged with so much violence, would soon spend
itself, and a calm would ensue. The tumult of
the people is very properly compared to the raging
of the sea. When the passions of a multitude be-
come headstrong, they generally will have their
course : a direct opposition only tends to increase
them ; and as to reasoning, one may as well ex-
pect that the foaming billows will hearken to a
lecture of morality and be quiet. The skilful
pilot will carefully keep the helm, and so steer
the ship while the storm continues, as to prevent,
if possible, her receiving injury.

When your petition was read in the house, 1
was fearful that our enemies would make an ill
improvement of it. I thought I could discover in
the countenances of some, a kind of triumph in
finding that the friends of liberty themselves, were
obliged to have recourse even to military aid, to
protect them from the fury of an ungoverned mob.
They seemed to me to be disposed to confound
the distinction, between a lawless attack upon
property in a case where if there had been right
there was remedy, and the people's rising in the
necessary defence of their liberties, and deliberate-

38 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ly, and I may add rationally destroying property,
after trying every method to preserve it, and when
the men in power had rendered the destruction of
that property the only means of securing the prop-
erty of all.

It is probable that such improvement may have
been made of the disorders in Marblehead, to
prejudice or discredit our manly opposition to the
efforts of tyranny ; but I hope the friends of liber-
ty will prevent any injury thereby to the common
cause : and yet, I cannot but express some fears,
that parties and animosities have arisen among
the brethren ; because I have just now heard from
a gentleman of your town, that your committee of
correspondence have resolved no more to act ! I
am loth to believe, nay, I cannot yet believe, that
the gentlemen of Marblehead, who have borne so
early and so noble a testimony to the cause of
American freedom, will desert that cause, only
from a difference of sentiments among themselves
concerning a matter which has no relation to it.
If my fears are groundless, pray be so kind as to
relieve them, by writing to me as soon as you
have an opportunity. I shall take it as the great-
est act of friendship you can do me. Indeed the
matter will soon be put to the trial ; for our com-
mittee, without the least jealousy, have written
a letter to your's, by Mr. Goddard, who is the
bearer of this. The contents we think of great
importance, and therefore I hope they will have

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 39

the serious consideration of the gentlemen of your
committee.

I am, with strict truth,

Your's affectionately,

Samuel Adams.
Elbridge Gerry, Esq.

COMMITTEE OF CORRESPONDENCE TO MR. GERRY

AND OTHERS.

Bostow, April 2, 1774.

Gentlemen,

Yesterday we received your letter dated the
22d of March, wherein we have the disagreeable
intelligence of your " having resigned the several
offices in which you have acted for the town of
Marblehead," and that you shall " accept them no
more — without material alteration in the conduct
of the inhabitants."

When we heard of the unhappy circumstances
of that town, the contest that had arisen to so
great a degree of violence on account of the hos-
pital lately erected there, it gave us great concern
and anxiety, lest it might issue to the prejudice of
the common cause of American freedom. We
were apprehensive that the minds of the zealous
friends of that good cause, being warmly agitated
in such a controversy, would become thereby dis-
affected to each other, and that the advantage

40 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

which we have hitherto experienced from their
united efforts would cease. We are confirmed
that our fears were not ill grounded, by your re-
linquishing a post, which in our opinion, and we
dare say in the opinion of your fellow townsmen
you sustained with honour to yourselves and ad-
vantage to your country. But, gentlemen, suffer
us to ask, whether you well considered, that al-
though you derived your being as a committee of
correspondence from that particular town which
appointed you, yet in the nature of your office,
while they continued you in it you stood connect-
ed in a peculiar relation with your country ? If
this be a just view of it, should the ill conduct of
the inhabitants of Marblehead towards you, influ-
ence you to decline serving the public in this office
any more than that of the inhabitants of this or
any other town ? And would you not therefore
have continued in that office, though you had been
obliged to resign every other office you held under
the town, without injury to your own reputation ?
Besides will the misfortune end in this resigna-
tion ? Does not the step naturally lead you to
withdraw yourselves totally from the public meet-
ings of the town, however important to the com-
mon cause, by which the other firm friends to that
honourable cause may feel the want of your influ-
ence and aid, at a time when, as you well express
it, " a fatal thrust may be aimed at our rights and
liberties," and it may be necessary that all should

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 4 1

appear, and " as one body oppose the design and
defeat the rebel intention ?" Should not the dis-
orders that have prevailed and still prevail in the
town of Marblehead, have been a weighty motive
rather for your taking measures to strengthen your
connexions with the people than otherwise ; that
you might in conjunction with other prudent men,
have employed your influence and abilities in re-
ducing to the exercise of reason those who had
been governed by prejudice and passion, and thus
have brought the contest to an equitable and ami-
cable issue, which would certainly have been to
your own satisfaction ? If difficulties stared you
in the face, it is a good maxim, nil desperandum ;
and are you sure that it was impracticable for you,
by patience and assiduity, to have restored " order
and distinction," and rendered the public offices
of the town again respectable ?

It is difficult to enumerate all the instances in
which our enemies, as watchful as they are in-
veterate, will make an ill improvement of your let-
ter of resignation. And therefore we earnestly
wish that a method may yet be contrived for the
recalling of it consistent with your own senti-
ments. We assure ourselves that personal con-
siderations will not be suffered to have an undue
weight in your minds, when the public liberty in
which is involved the happiness of your own as
well as the children of those who have ill treated
you, and whom to rescue from bondage will afford
G

42 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

you the most exalted pleasure, is in danger of suf-
fering injury.

We wish most ardently that by the exercise of
moderation and prudence the differences subsist-
ing among the good people of Marblehead may
be settled upon righteous terms. And as we are
informed that the town at their late meeting did
not see cause to make choice of other gentlemen
in your room in consequence of your declining to
serve any longer as a committee of correspondence,
we beg leave still to consider and address you in
that character.

We are, with unfeigned respect,

William Cooper, Clerk.

By order, and in behalf of the committee
of correspondence for Boston.

To gentlemen of the committee of

correspondence for Marblehead.

LIFE OF KLBRIDGE GERRY. 43

CHAPTER III.

Correspondence with Samuel Adams With the Committee of

Donations.

Personal feeling and private interest soon
yielded to the paramount claims of the country.

The rumour of the Boston port bill produced
the following correspondence.

MR. GERRY TO MR. ADAMS.

Marblehead, Mat 12, 1774.

My Dear Sir,

The whole business of life seems involved in
one great question, what is best to be done for
our country ? The distinguished resentment of an
arbitrary ministry will prove for the metropolis a
diadem of honour, and render the name of Bos-
tonian respected and revered to the latest posteri-
ty. Whence this torrent of vengeance upon your
much beloved city ? It is your bravery that has
induced it, and the bravery of your countrymen
will liberate you.

Boston has been dealt with most rigorously, but

44 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

her defence will be glorious. The point is, whether
Americans shall enjoy the fruits of their labour, or
send them in taxes to Great Britain ; whether
they shall happily maintain their families by the
proceeds of their industry, or remit it to Great
Britain to maintain pensioners in luxury.

If the first is preferred, then the continent will
see that falling on Boston is an attack on all the
colonies ; and as in battle, if on either wing of the
army a violent onset is made, that part will be
duly reinforced by a good general, so I hope it
will be by the people in the attack made on
Boston.

Pray stand out until this province and the other
colonies have had opportunity of assisting you ; if
no assistance comes, then you cannot be blamed
for giving way. The struggle will be over, and
all of us enslaved. Dear sir, you will not be de-
serted ! The inhabitants of this town and the
county (as far as I can learn) are incensed at this
act ; there will be no great difficulty in relieving
you.

The capitals of the other provinces will agree
to strike off all commerce with Great Britain, and
not to remit or pay interest before Boston is libe-
rated, and each town should destroy all English
goods imported contrary to agreement.

This moment some friends have come in and
acquainted me with your meeting yesterday, and
so much satisfaction I have never met with from

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 45

any news as from this. I most heartily congratu-
late you thereon. The tories here pretend that
they would be for repelling the troops as they land,
so changed is the face of affairs.

I could wish colonel Orne and myself could
come ; we have a desire to share in these new dif-
ficulties, but see-no way to do so under the present
circumstances of the town. * * * *

* # •* # Americans know their rights and
the value of them too well not to defend them.
Pray make my respects to the committee of cor-
respondence, as well as your good family, and be-
lieve me to be

Your most obedient servant,

E. Gerry.

Mr. Adams.

MR. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, May 12, 1774.

My Dear Sir,
I duly received your excellent letter of this day,
while I was in town-meeting. I read it there, to
the great satisfaction of my fellow townsmen, in
as full a town-meeting as we have ever had. I
think you and the worthy colonel Orne must by
no means refuse to come to the general assembly.
Every consideration is to give way to the public.
T cannot see how you can reconcile a refusal to

46 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

your own principles. Excuse my honest freedom.
I can write no more at present, being now in com-
mittee of correspondence upon matters of great
importance. This waits on you by Mr. Oliver
Wendel, who is one of a committee of this town
to communicate with the gentlemen of Salem and
Marblehead, upon the present exigency.

I am, in haste, your friend,

Samuel Adams.
Mr. Elbridge Gerry.

MR. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, Mat 20, 1774.

Dear Sir,
I have just time to acquaint you that yesterday
our committee of correspondence received an ex-
press from New-York, with a letter from thence,
dated the 1 5th instant, informing that a ship arriv-
ed there after a passage of twenty-seven days from
London, with the detested act for shutting up this
port ; that the citizens of New-York resented the
treatment of Boston, as a most violent and bar-
barous attack on the rights of all America ; that
the general cry was, let the port of New-York vo-
luntarily share the fate of Boston ; that the mer-
chants were to meet on Tuesday last, and it was
the general opinion that they would entirely sus-
pend all commercial connexion with Great Britain,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 47

and not supply the West Indies with hoops, staves,
lumber, &c. ; that they hoped the merchants in
this and every colony would come into the mea-
sure, as it was of the last importance.

Excuse me, I am in great haste,
Your friend,

Samuel Adams.

MR. GERRY TO COMMITTEE OF CORRESPONDENCE

AT BOSTON.

Marblehead, June 16, 1774.

Gentlemen,
I enclose you a subscription from eight and twen-
ty of the merchants and traders of this place, of-
fering their stores, services, &c. to our oppressed
friends ; there are numbers (their stores being at
present fully occupied, they have been prevented
from signing) who express their greatest readiness
to assist, and convince our enemies that their wick-
ed designs of dividing this people by their political
stratagems of advantaging some by the ruin of
others, are abortive. Give me leave to observe
that I think it will not be necessary to publish the
names of the subscribers, should it be thought best
to publish the subscription ; as it may be known by
any who can be served, where application is to
be made. The committee of correspondence here

48 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

will readily direct in the matter ; which leaves me
nothing further to offer at present, than that
I remain, sincerely, gentlemen,

Your most obedient, humble servant,

E. Gerry.

P. S. Our good friend, colonel Lee, would have
been the first subscriber, had he been in town ;
and the only objection to publishing the names, is
a fear of its appearing rather ostentatious.

I believe you may be assured of our ability to
furnish stores, &c. for all our friends, among whom
addressers will not be ranked.

Gentlemen of correspondence for Boston.

COMMITTEE OF CORRESPONDENCE TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, June 22, 1774.

Sir,
The committee of correspondence take this first
opportunity to make their most grateful acknow-
ledgments of the generous and patriotic sympathy
of our brethren, the worthy merchants and traders
of the town of Marblehead, as well those who have
already subscribed for our relief, as those who ex-
press their readiness to serve the trade of Boston.
Our sense of their favour, as it respects individuals,
is strong and lively ; but the honour and advantage

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 49

thereby derived to the common cause of our coun-
try, are so great and conspicuous, that private con-
siderations of every kind recede before them.

Samuel Adams.

By order of the committee of correspond-
ence for the town of Boston.

To Elbridge Gerry.

Availing themselves of the kindness of their
friends in Marblehead, the citizens of Boston plac-
ed there in deposite the benefactions which the
sympathy of a continent appropriated to their use.
The manner is best shown by some few of the
numerous letters which the occasion produced.

COMMITTEE OF DONATIONS TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, August 22, 1774.

Gentlemen,
The committee for donations have received ad-
vice this day of a cargo of provisions from North
Carolina, arrived at Newport, waiting for our di-
rections ; we have ordered the master to proceed
to Marblehead, and apply to you for further advice
and directions. This is to ask the favour of you
to direct the master, after regular entry and clear-
50 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ance, to proceed immediately up to Boston, and if
any expense should be incurred by you, your
draught on us shall be immediately honoured.

The kindness this town have experienced from
our friends at Marblehead, and especially from you,
encourages us to take this freedom.

We hope to persevere under our trials, and firm-
ly resist the hand of oppression, trusting in the
supreme Ruler of the universe, that he will in his
time, extricate us from all our troubles, and that
we shall yet be a free and happy people.

With the highest esteem and respect,

We are, gentlemen, your very
Obliged friends and servants,

David Jeffries.

In behalf of the committee.
To Mr. Elbridge Gerry.

THE SAME TO THE SAME.

Boston, Sept. 20, 1774.

Sir,
The committee of donations desire the favour of
you to give any advice or assistance to captain
Brown in unlading and reshipping one thousand
bushels corn, which our friends in Virginia have
generously sent for the relief of the poor of this
town.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 51

Your care in this matter will be a further obli-
gation to

Your humble servants,

Henry Hill.

By order of committee.

Mr. Elbridge Gerry.

THE SAME TO THE SAME.

Boston, Sept. 22, 1774.

Sir,
I am desired by the committee of donations to
request the favour of you, or some of our friends,
to buy for us a load or two of wood, to pay as
great a part as you can out of the corn that was
left with you by the North Carolina vessel about
three weeks past. We understand that corn sells
at 3s. 4d. at Salem. Please to excuse us thus fre-
quently troubling you, and be assured the commit-
tee are sensible of their great obligations to you
and their friends at Marblehead.

Your friend and humble servant,

Nathaniel Appleton.

52 LIFE OF ELBKIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER IV.

The Provincial Congress of Massachusetts Mr. Gerry elected a

Member Its Character.

Events were occurring too important and mul-
tiplied to be managed any longer by mere local
committees. The Boston port bill had shut up
its harbour and annihilated all its trade ; a solemn
league and covenant followed it, by which the
people were bound not to import or use any Eng-
lish goods. The courts of justice were interrupt-
ed because of the arrangements about salaries.
A law existed by which persons accused of politi-
cal offences might be sent to Great Britain for
trial. These great events combined to produce a
patriotic excitement, and put into requisition the
talents, the character and the virtue of the land.
An assembly of delegates from all the towns in
the province convened at Salem in October, to
which Mr. Gerry was returned by a large majori-
ty as one of the members from his native town.
From Salem the convention adjourned to Concord,
and assumed the form of a legislative meeting, by
choosing John Hancock to be their president, and
Benjamin Lincoln their secretary.

This assembly had no justification for convening

LIFE OF ELRRIDGE GERRY. 53

by any provisions of the provincial charter; and
their assuming the powers of legislation, and other
high acts of authority and government, was sup-
ported by no other sanction than the voluntary
consent and approbation of the people.

Resistance to organized government usually be-
gins by military force. The arm of the law is
active and powerful enough to put down all oppo-
sition that is not supported by the bayonet ; but
the American revolution began by the exertion of
moral and intellectual power. It commenced in
an intelligent and peaceable effort by the people
to direct for themselves, and by themselves, the
public business of the province ; and so far as
Massachusetts was concerned, the assembling of
these delegates with the intention of exercising
all the powers of legislation, and carrying this in-
tention into complete effect, was a perfect aban-
donment of the provincial government, an over-
throw of the royal power, and the beginning of
the existence of a free, sovereign and independent
state.

The assembly which met at Concord, and after-
wards at Watertown, assumed the title of the
provincial congress. Their numbers, their forms
of proceeding, all the minor arrangements of their
session were as conformable as might be to an-
cient usage under the charter of the crown. But
they assembled without the sanction of the au-
thority therein prescribed. They were not the

54 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

legislative power in that instrument intended.
The governour was excluded from any connexion
with their deliberations. No approbation from the
executive was sought for, in order to give efficacy to
their resolves. They assumed the entire legisla-
tive and executive authority of the province. The
governour and the royal charter under which he
acted were effectually deposed.

This assembly of distinguished citizens, unsup-
ported by military power, but resting with more se-
curity on the voluntary approbation of the people,
constituted in effect the supreme power of a new
commonwealth ; and maintained it with consum-
mate ability and eventual success. From the day
of their first meeting the royal authority within
the province of Massachusetts was forever at an
end.

Historians in the splendour of those wonderful
achievements, which accompanied the American
revolution, have passed with too little attention
this great event, in which it may be said to have
commenced. The assembling of a provincial con-
gress was in fact the beginning of that grand
spectacle. Whatever preceded it was preparation
for the astonishing event. Whatever followed it
was the mode or the means of securing or con-
firming it. This was the revolution. The prov-
ince by this act threw off its allegiance to the
crown. The people by their delegates establish-
ed a new political power. With steadiness, con-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 55

fidence, prudence and moderation, they proceeded
by their own authority to organize a government,
which should endeavour to preserve for them their
invaluable rights.

Appearances of respect for the crown were in-
deed preserved as far as possible, and there were
undoubtedly timid and interested men in and out
of the congress, who did not realize or were un-
willing to admit the full character of this popular
assembly ; but neither appearances of respect, nor
professions of duty could disguise the undeniable
fact, that one government had ceased, and another
government had begun.

The earlier organization of the first continental
congress, which met in Philadelphia on the fourth of
September preceding, cannot be considered as an-
ticipating the designs of this provincial assembly,
or derogating from the honour to which it is entitled
in the eyes of posterity. A convention of dele-
gates from several of the provinces, for consulta-
tion on matters of common interest, was not un-
known to the earlier history of the country ; and
did not necessarily interfere with the allegiance of
the subjects ; on the contrary, it was a measure
tending rather to confirm and establish it. Thus
the congress at Philadelphia, taking former similar
assemblies as its guide, did not at first interfere
with any lawfully established power. It did not
come into collision with any of the prerogatives of
the crown. Whatever the prophetic spirit of pa-

56 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

triotism might have expected from the wisdom
which it collected, and the enthusiasm which it
excited, it assumed for itself no exercise of sove-
reignty. Its session was peaceable, and beyond
the danger of hostile aggression.

Not so the provincial congress of Massachusetts.
Its organization was in opposition to the king's
authority. It was so considered by the governour,
who admonished the members that " their assem-
bling as they had done was a violation of their own
constitution."

The provincial congress met not for consulta-
tion merely, but action ; and it proceeded to mea-
sures, which, had defeat ensued, would unques-
tionably have been termed overt acts of treason ;
and subjected the leading members to capital
punishment.

With more than Spartan firmness this band of
patriots voluntarily assumed the responsibility of
their dangerous situation. In the very front of
the formidable force which was collected in the me-
tropolis, and in view of the tyrannical use which
was made of it among their friends, unmoved by
their own personal danger, and undismayed by an
awful disparity of power, they made every hon-
ourable exertion which men could make, to rouse
among their countrymen, and extend far and wide
the spirit of resistance ; and to provide the means
for making this resistance effectual. In addresses
and resolutions of the most impassioned eloquence

lifl: OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 57

and overwhelming invective, they poured forth the
complaints and resentment of a high minded, an
enlightened and an oppressed people ; and satis-
fied that they could not

" Charm ache with air, nor agony with words,"

they laboured industriously to increase that physi-
cal ability, which should give efficacy to the high
moral feelings they devoutly invoked.
58 LIFE OF ELBKIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER V.

Measures of the Provincial Congress of 1774 Its Committees.

Representatives in the general court of the
province of Massachusetts were chosen by the se-
veral corporate towns of the province, the number
from each town depending on its population. The
right of election was rarely exercised to its full ex-
tent. The number of members at any one time,
seldom exceeded one hundred and forty. In se-
lecting delegates to the provincial congress, the
same rule was observed, but the right was more
generally exercised. Few towns were unrepre-
sented, and the larger returned a full delegation.
The whole number which convened were two
hundred and forty-eight.

The first efficient measure of the congress was
to secure the materials of war, and especially to
obtain a supply of arms and ammunition, of which
the province was lamentably deficient. They di-
rected that taxes should no longer be paid to the
treasurer of the province, but appointed a treasur-
er by their own authority, to whom the annual as-
sessments were to be paid. They reorganized the
militia, invited voluntary associations to be formed
for instruction in the military art, appointed gene-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 59

ral officers, and took such other measures as a pro-
vident foresight of the approaching crisis rendered
expedient for the safety of their constituents.

According to the habit of the times, important
affairs were intrusted to select committees, by
whose intelligence and activity the necessary
measures were arranged, often without reference
to the appointing body. These committees, in
the unsettled state of legal authority, exercised an
executive power where it was useful, almost ac-
cording to their discretion. The importance of
the business of a committee was marked by the
character of the individuals selected to compose it.
The post of honour was always that of labour, and
it might be of danger; and was assigned, not as a
vain compliment to individual influence, but to
call into full exercise the talents that it elevated.
On the organization of the assembly, a commit-
tee was appointed to consider the state of the pro-
vince. Fourteen of the most distinguished mem-
bers of the congress, among whom was Mr. Gerry,
composed this committee. They published a bold
and energetic appeal, which, in the form of an ad-
dress to governour Gage, was calculated to justify
the authority they had assumed, to awaken their
constituents to the dangers which they feared, and
to rouse them to a sense of the injuries they had
sustained. They professed their loyalty to the
crown, and their disposition for tranquillity and
peace ; but they affirmed, that the regal power was

60 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

exerted to harass and enslave them, and had ceas-
ed to be a blessing. They enumerated, in strong
terms, the evils, under which they were suffering,
and claimed a discontinuance of the offensive mea-
sures which produced them, as the only way to
preserve the peace of the community.

Not contented with a mere proclamation of their
rights, the congress appointed a committee of safe-
ty to preserve them. This was a kind of execu-
tive commission, whose power was almost as un-
limited as the Roman dictators, " ne quid detre-
menti capiat respnblica." Mr. Gerry was of course
a member of this committee.

It is to the credit of the individuals, of whom
this and the several other committees for action
were composed, that in the arduous and delicate
duties which the occasion required, when energy
on their part might operate injuriously on private
rights, and hesitation be fatal to the public inte-
rest ; when before them was an exasperated mili-
tary power, and around them open adherents of the
crown, or timid friends and vacillating advisers ;
when the generally prevailing spirit of the people
often outstripped the limits of prudence, and re-
quired, in particular cases, to be restrained and
controlled, as often as to be urged on and excited ;
when the civil authority, which had lost the usual
badges of its power, was necessarily silent, and
difficulties of such novel and perplexing character
Were constantly recurring as might justify depart-

LIFE OF ELMIIDGE GERRY. 61

ure from the common paths of ordinary justice,
they were able to conduct the affairs intrusted to
them, and preserve at the same time their popula-
rity and their integrity. It is the consequence of
war, particularly civil war, that the rights of un-
offending and peaceable citizens are oftentimes
sacrificed for the benefit of the dominant party,
whichever by the fortune of the day may happen
to be so, while the existing authority appropriates
for itself or the public, whatever property is suffi-
ciently of value to attract its notice.

That cases of this sort must have occurred in
the progress of the American revolution, is not now
to be questioned ; but wherever they did occur
during that period, when under the direction of
the provincial congress, the spirit of patriotism
supplied the place of law, they were found to have
resulted from circumstances which exonerated the
individuals of the committee from all suspicion or
complaint. Indeed the whole period of the con-
troversy with the mother country is marked by a
regard for private rights, worthy of the cause in
which the people were engaged, and nowhere is
that general feeling more deserving of commenda-
tion than in the conduct of the committee of safety
even amid the frequent and imperious demands,
which might sometimes have been an apology, if
not a justification, for different conduct.

The course adopted by the committee of the
provincial congress, was that which the opinion

G2 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

of the body collectively indicated as the path of
duty. In the novel and alarming situation of the
country, the deliberations and acts of this band of
patriots marked the prudence, the firmness, the
intelligence and the strong American feeling by
which they were influenced. Educated in princi-
ples of loyalty, and attached by habit and early
associations to the monarchy, they had not origin-
ally any idea of national independence ; but feel-
ing a constitutional right to the enjoyment of
British liberty, and conscious that the dignity of
their own character required its preservation, they
contented themselves with claiming nothing beyond
their chartered rights, but did not hesitate, at any
possible peril, to demand their entire possession.
They were unwilling to be rebels, but they re-
solved not to be slaves.

This cautious course, required by loyalty on the
one side and patriotism on the other, this opposi-
tion to the king's ministry and the laws of parlia-
ment, with a professed respect for the king's per-
son and royal authority, it was difficult always to
maintain. Regard for the rights of the province
led them to oppose themselves to the rights of the
crown, and it is probable that their early reverence
for the royal authority might render them more
circumspect in maintaining popular privileges.
They do not, however, appear to have faultered in
the work they began. Every moment of their re-
maining together was a continued violation of their

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. G3

allegiance in the opinion of the governour, whose
strong military force might have made his opinion
their law. The courage they displayed in main-
taining their principles, and the firmness, almost
the rashness of their resolution to continue their
sessions, implied a resource for protection not the
less formidable because it was not immediately
obvious, and discouraged the military representa-
tive of majesty from any hostile assault upon their
personal liberty.

This first provincial congress continued its ses-
sions, at intervals, until the tenth of December,
when it was dissolved by its own authority.

64 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER VI.

Second Provincial Congress of Massachusetts Letters of John

Hancock.

A new provincial congress, of which Mr. Gerry
was a member, assembled in Cambridge, in Feb-
ruary 1775 ; and after a few days' session ad-
journed to meet again in March.

Like their predecessors, this congress endea-
voured by a well written and animating address to
instruct the public mind, and excite and regulate
that patriotic spirit which the emergency required.
With the characteristic piety of their forefathers
they set apart a day for religious duty, acknow-
ledging the power of an overruling providence,
and seeking from the goodness of Heaven that
wisdom and strength, which were necessary for
their safe conduct in the perilous condition of
their country.

Though nearly the same persons were returned
to this congress who had sat in the former, it was
apparent from the tone of their speeches, and the
measures they adopted, that a pacific termina-
tion of the existing troubles was no longer ex-
pected. They seemed to realize the arbitrary
determination of the ministry to subject them to a

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. G5

disgraceful vassalage, and they prepared them-
selves to resist it with the sword.

The British general with a view to possess
himself of the continental military stores in Essex
county detached a part of his troops from Boston
by water to Marblehead, and thence through Sa-
lem to Danvers, but without success. The cir-
cumstance was mortifying to their pride, and pro-
portionally excited the spirit of the provincials.

It was the occasion of the following letter.

MR. HANCOCK TO MR. GERRY.

Bostox, Feb. 28, 1775.

Dear Sir,
We are all extremely pleased at the conduct of
Marblehead and Salem. The people there have
certainly convinced the governour and troops that
they will fight, and I am confident this movement
will make the general more cautious how he sends
parties out in future to attempt the like. The
matter was conducted with the greatest secrecy.
We knew nothing of it in town until 10 o'clock
on Monday. I hear nothing of sending troops to
York or any where else. Should any thing occur
worthy of your notice you shall be informed. Mr.
Adams and all friends are well, and much pleased
with your conduct. I hope when the day of trial
66 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

comes we shall be enabled to stand firm. Do re-
member me to all friends. I wish you health and
happiness, and am with sincere esteem,
Sir,

Your most humble servant,

John Hancock.
Elbridge Gerry.

The personal compliment here bestowed refers
to the alacrity of Mr. Gerry in joining the militia,
which was prepared to make resistance if any had
been necessary. It was owing to the caution of
the British commander, and not to any want of
effort or spirit on the part of the inhabitants, that
Essex county is not distinguished for the first
battle of the revolution.

There no longer remained a doubt that " the
day of trial" was approaching. Men began to
realize, that to preserve the constitutional liberties
of the country it would be necessary to fight ; and
the resolution to meet the exigency when it arriv-
ed, was not the less decisive from the reluctance,
with which its necessity was admitted.

The march of the British troops to Lexington
and Concord sealed this resolution with blood.

Among the objects of this march one was to
seize the persons of some of the influential mem-
bers of the provincial congress, and to hold them

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 67

as hostages for the moderation of their colleagues,
or send them to England for trial as traitors, and
thus strike dismay and terror into the minds of
their associates and friends.

A committee of congress, among whom were
Mr. Gerry, colonel Orne and colonel Hancock,
had been in session on the day preceding the
march of the troops in the village of Menotomy,
then part of the township of Cambridge, on the
road to Lexington. The latter gentleman after
the session was over had gone to Lexington. Mr.
Gerry and Mr. Orne remained at the village ; the
other members of the committee had dispersed.

Some officers of the royal army had been sent
out in advance, who passed through the village
just before dark in the afternoon of the 18th of
April, and although the appearance of similar de-
tachments was not uncommon, these so far attract-
ed the attention of Mr. Gerry, that he despatched
an express to colonel Hancock, who with Samuel
Adams was at Lexington. The messenger passed
the officers by taking a by-path, and delivered his
letter. The idea of personal danger does not
seem to have made any strong impression on
either of these gentlemen. Mr. Hancock's an-
swer to Mr. Gerry bears marks of the haste, with
which it was written, while it discovers that ha-
bitual politeness on the part of the writer, which
neither haste or danger could impair.

68 LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY.

MR. HANCOCK TO MR. GERRY.

Lexington, April, 18, 1775.

Dear Sir,
I am much obliged for your notice. It is said
the officers are gone to Concord, and I will send
word thither. I am full with you that we ought
to be serious, and I hope your decision will be
effectual. I intend doing myself the pleasure of
being with you to-morrow. My respects to the
committee.

I am your real friend,

John Hancock,

Mr. Gerry and colonel Orne retired to rest
without taking the least precaution against per-
sonal exposure, and they remained quietly in their
beds until the British advance were within view
of the dwelling house. It was a fine moonlight
night, and they quietly marked the glittering of
its beams on the polished arms of the soldiers as
the troops moved with the silence and regularity
of accomplished discipline. The front passed on.
When the centre were opposite to the house oc-
cupied by the committee, an officer and file of
men were detached by signal, and marched to-

LIFE OF ELB1UDGE GERRY. 69

wards it. It was not until this moment they en-
tertained any apprehension of danger. While the
officer was posting his files the gentlemen found
means by their better knowledge of the premises
to escape, half dressed as they were, into an ad-
joining corn-field, where they remained concealed
for more than an hour, until the troops were with-
drawn. Every apartment of the house was search-
ed " for the members of the rebel congress" ;
even the beds in which they had lain were ex-
amined. But their property, and among other
things a valuable watch of Mr. Gerry's, which was
under his pillow, was not disturbed.

The provincial congress re-assembled in three
days after the affair of Lexington and Concord.
They denounced the governour as an enemy of
the province, and absolved the people from all
obligation to obey his commands. But it suited
the deliberate and cautious policy, by which with
singular good judgment they were governed, to
distinguish between the acts of the governour as
an instrument of ministers, and the orders of the
crown, which they professed to believe could
never authorize his arbitrary acts of violence and
oppression.

Governour Gage followed this measure by his
famous proclamation of the 12th of June, in which
he declares the whole province to be in a state of
rebellion, but invites the people to return to their
allegiance, and promises the king's gracious par-

70 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

don to all who may solicit the favour, " excepting
from the benefit of such pardon Samuel Adams
and John Hancock, whose offences are of too
flagitious a nature to admit of any other consider-
ation than that of condign punishment."

The selection of these distinguished citizens,
which an American historian has in reference to
other prominent and distinguished advocates of
the popular cause called " rather accidental than
judicious," instead of subjecting them to the evils
which it threatened, gave them an additional hold
on the confidence and affection of their country-
men, and enrolled them " primi inter pares" in
the great councils of patriotism and constitutional
liberty.

The proclamation of general Gage excited the
indignation and the ridicule, the invective and the
wit of those, for whose admonition it was made.
It was a theme, on which the poetry of Trumbull
was successfully exerted to amuse, as was the elo-
quence of the leaders of the provincial congress to
intruct and elevate the public mind. It seems to
have been considered as the climax of all possible
folly, as well as of oppression ; and by the advan-
tage taken of it by the patriots of that day, did as
much to confirm the resistance it denounced, as
the acts of the military force on the 19th of April.

The language of the proclamation is indeed ob-
jurgatory, and its epithets coarse and severe. It
speaks of " infatuated multitudes, who had long

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY. 71

suffered themselves to be condacted by well-known
incendiaries and traitors in a fatal progression of
crimes against the constitutional authority of the
state. The authors of the present unnatural re-
volt," the proclamation adds, " never daring to
trust their cause or their actions to the judgment
of an impartial public, or even to the dispassionate
reflection of their followers, have uniformly placed
their chief confidence in the suppression of truth ;
and while indefatigable and shameless pains have
been taken to obstruct every appeal to the real in-
terests of the people of America, the grossest for-
geries, calumnies and absurdities that ever insulted
human understanding have been imposed on their
credulity. The animated language of ancient and
virtuous times, calculated to vindicate and promote
the just rights and interest of mankind, has been
applied to countenance the most abandoned viola-
tion of those sacred blessings, and not only from
the flagitious prints but from the popular harangues
of the times, men have been taught to depend upon
activity in treason for the security of their persons
and property, till to complete the horrid profana-
tion of terms and ideas, the name of God has been
introduced in the pulpits to excite and justify de-
vastation and massacre."

This was indeed more the language of passion
than judgment. It spoke more for revenge than
for dignity. But the declaration that a rebellion
existed, was rather too long delayed for the success

72 LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY.

of the royal cause, than prematurely announced ;
and although the conduct of the ministerial officer
was marked by a thousand instances of petty vex-
ation and irritating management, it was deficient
in that bold and prompt determination of decisive
measures, which a more adventurous commander
would have undertaken, or one better acquainted
with the destitute condition of the provincials
would have earlier and more vigorously pursued.
The spirit of a great people might not indeed have
been destroyed had their forces been beaten in
battle, but discomfiture and defeat in the early
stages of resistance would have done much to dis-
hearten the opposition, and to have gathered round
the royal standard many of that large class, who
never choose the party of the weakest. To the
want of an energetic exertion of civil and mili-
tary power by the royal commanders, and to that
delusion of their minds, which is the precursor of
destruction, were owing in no small degree the
strength of the popular sentiment, and the ability
of the republican leaders to keep up the spirit of
the people.*

It could not have been necessary for the English

* In general Gage's account of the affairs at Lexington and
Concord, lie says, " the troops were very much annoyed and had
several men killed and wounded by the rebels firing from behind
walls, ditches, trees, and other ambushes." This was mention-
ed to Dr. Franklin as evidence that his countrymen were defi-
cient in courage. " I beg to enquire," said the doctor, "if these
game walls had not two sides to them ?"

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 73

general and governour to have waited for the blood
at Lexington and Concord, to convince him
that force only would preserve the authority he
was deputed to maintain. The provincial con-
gress had among other measures on the fifth of
April organized, as far as their resolves could do
it, a provincial military force, and published their
" rules and regulations for the Massachusetts
army." In doing this, they speak in the glow-
ing language of all their public proclamations.
"Whereas," says this state paper, "the lust of
power, which of old oppressed, persecuted and ex-
iled our pious and virtuous ancestors from their
fair possessions in Britain, now pursues with ten-
fold severity us their guiltless children, who are
unjustly and wickedly charged with licentiousness,
sedition, treason and rebellion, and being deeply
impressed with a sense of the almost incredible fa-
tigues and hardships our venerable progenitors en-
countered, who fled from oppression for the sake of
civil and religious liberty for themselves and their
offspring, and began a settlement here on bare
creation at their own expense, and having serious-
ly considered the duty we owe to God, to the me-
mory of such invincible worthies, to the king, to
Great Britain, our country, ourselves and posterity,
do think it an indispensable duty by all lawful
ways and means in our power to recover, maintain,
defend and preserve the free exercise of all those
civil and religious rights for which many of our
74 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

forefathers fought, bled and died, and to hand them
down entire for the free enjoyment of the latest
posterity. And whereas we are frequently told by
the tools of administration, dupes to ministerial
usurpation, that Great Britain will not in any de-
gree relax in her measures until we acknowledge
her right to make laws binding upon us in all cases
whatsoever ; and that if we refuse to be slaves,
and if we persist in our denial of her claim, the
dispute must be decided by arms, in which it is
said by our enemies we shall have no chance, be-
ing undisciplined, cowards, disobedient, impatient
of command, and possessed of that spirit of level-
ling, which admits of no order, subordination, rule
or government," therefore they resolve to organize
a military force and provide articles for its govern-
ment in actual service.

Whether the British governour or those disaffect-
ed citizens, by whom his councils were influenced,
did or did not believe that these paper resolutions
would be acted out upon the field, there can be little
doubt that the resolutions themselves would have
justified any exertion of military power ; and it may
be now well considered as among the providential
blessings of the day, that the boldness and energy
of the patriots of the revolution were not earlier
met by a corresponding spirit on the part of the
enemy, with whom they were called to contend.*

* There was a strange ignorance of the American character
among the British officers, which they had been long enough in

LIFE OF ELBRIUGE GERRY. 75

The movements of the enemy's forces in the
field now imperiously drew the attention of the
popular leaders to the condition of their armory.
Almost every article required for the approaching
contest was yet to be procured. There were no
magazines of arms, and very little ammunition.
No contracts for provision or clothing had been
made, and money was an article almost unknown.
The provincial congress lost no time in appointing
a committee to be charged with the duty of en-
deavouring to obtain necessary supplies, at the
head of which was Mr. Gerry.

The procuring of gunpowder admitted of no de-
lay. The committee charged Mr. Gerry with the
duty of obtaining it. After giving him the most
precise and particular instructions according to the
manner customary on less pressing occasions, they
curiously add the following postscript to their letter.

Sir : You are also desired, if powder is to be

found in any part of America, to procure it in such
way and manner as you shall think best, and we
will confirm whatever you shall do relative to this

matter.

Benjamin Lincoln, Per order.

the country to have removed. On 19th April, one lieutenant
Gould, of the British army, was taken prisoner. He had a pro-
perty of 1900L per annum, and was so impressed with the hor-
rour of his condition as a prisoner to the rebels, that he offered
2000Z. for his immediate ransom. He was afterwards exchanged
for an old man named Breed, who had a large family.

Mmon's Remembrancer, vol. i. p. 82.

76 L[FE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

With this unrestricted commission, and excited
by the strong necessity there was to execute the
charge with success, Mr. Gerry undertook to pro-
cure this essential article. Besides his own per-
sonal exertions, which were unremitted and inde-
fatigable, he did not hesitate in many cases to ad-
vance his own funds where immediate payment
was required, and to incur responsibilities on his
own credit, which the province was then unable to
redeem. In the progress of the war the evidence
of many of these payments were lost or mislaid,
and their final settlement was attended with heavy
pecuniary loss.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 77

CHAPTER VII.

Correspondence on the state of the Province with the Delegates in
Congress at Philadelphia.

The means that were taken to procure the es-
sential articles of war show not only the deplora-
ble deficiency of the provincial store-houses, but
the ignorance, which prevailed, as to every thing
relating to the manufacture of gunpowder.

MR. GERRY TO THE MASSACHUSETTS DELEGATES
IN CONGRESS, AT PHILADELPHIA.

Watjertown, June 4, 1775.

Gentlemen,
A public express for your honourable body gives
me opportunity to hand you information of the
affairs of this province. From the confusion, in
which the engagement at Lexington threw the
people, they are now beginning to recover, and I
hope by the speedy assistance of some form of
government that the measures, which will be ne-
cessary for defence, will not only be practicable,
but executed here with success. The spirit of
the people is equal to our wishes, and if they con-
tinue as they began, it will be as familiar to fight

78 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

as to pursue the dangers of the ocean. We want
assistance by ammunition and money. A full
supply of these would render lord North and his
myrmidons as harmless as they are infamous.
We have stripped the seaports of canvass to make
tents ; and it is of great importance to possess
ourselves of about five hundred pieces of ravens
duck to keep the soldiers in health. I should be
glad if the bearer could obtain it on the credit of
our vote, as we want all our specie to send out of
the government for other purposes ; but I am
doubtful whether you can assist us in this matter
although very important, as the great objects of
your attention must take up your whole time.

Government is so essential that it cannot be too
soon adopted ; and although no argument can be
necessary to convince you of so plain a truth, yet
it may not be amiss to hint a matter which can
only be discovered by being where it has taken
place. The people are fully possessed of their
dignity from the frequent delineation of their
rights, which have been published to defeat the
ministerial party in their attempt to impress them
with high notions of government. They now feel
rather too much their own importance, and it re-
quires great skill to produce such subordination as
is necessary. This takes place principally in the
army ; they have affected to hold the military too
high, but the civil must be first supported, and
unless an established form of government is pro-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 79

vided it will be productive of injury. Every day's
delay will make the task more arduous.

We want also a regular general to assist us in
disciplining the army, which in twelve months'
time, and perhaps less, by frequent skirmishes
may be brought to stand against any troops, how-
ever formidable they may be, with the sounding
names of Welsh fusileers, grenadiers, &c. And
although the pride of our people would prevent
their submitting to be led by any general not an
American, yet I cannot but think that general Lee
might be so established as to render great service
by his presence and councils with our officers. I
should heartily rejoice to see this way the beloved
colonel Washington, and do not doubt the New-
England generals would acquiesce in showing to
our sister colony Virginia, the respect, which she
has before experienced from the continent, in mak-
ing him generalissimo.

This is a matter in which Dr. Warren agrees
with me, and we had intended to write you joint-
ly on the affair.

The letter from our joint committees and the
generals to the congress will come before you, and
nothing further is necessary on this head.

I remain, gentlemen, with great respect,
Your obedient servant,

Elbridge Gerry.

To the honourable members of the continental
congress from Massachusetts Bay.

80 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

MR. PAINE, MEMBER OF THE CONTINENTAL CON-
GRESS, TO MR. GERRY.

Philadelphia, June 10, 1775.

My very Dear Sir,
I cannot express to you the surprise and unea-
siness I received on hearing the congress express
respecting the want of gunpowder ; it always was
a matter that lay heavy on my mind ; but the ob-
servation I made of your attention to it, and your
alertness and perseverance in every thing you un-
dertake, and your repeatedly expressing it as your
opinion that we had probably enough for this
summer's campaign, made me quite easy. I rely
upon it, that measures are taken in your parts of
the continent to supply this defect. The design
of your express will be zealously attended to I
think. 1 have seen one of the powder mills here,
where they make excellent powder, but have
worked up all the nitre ; one of our members is
concerned in a powder mill at New- York, and has
a man at work making nitre. I have taken pains
to enquire into the method. Dr. Franklin has
seen salt-petre works at Hanover and Paris ; and
it strikes me to be as unnecessary after a certain
time to send abroad for gunpowder as for bread,
provided people will make use of common under-
standing and industry; but for the present we

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 81

must import from abroad. Major Foster told me
at Hartford he suspected he had some land that
would yield nitre ; pray converse with him about
it. Dr. Franklin's account is much the same as is
mentioned in one of the first of the American Mag-
azines : the sweepings of the streets and rubbish
of old buildings are made into mortar, and built
into walls, exposed to the air, and once in about
two months scraped, and lixiviated, and evaporat-
ed ; when I can describe the method more mi-
nutely I will write you ; mean while give me leave
to condole with you the loss of colonel Lee. Pray
remember me to colonel Orne and all other our
worthy friends. Pray take care of your important
health, that you may be able to stand stiff as a pil-
lar in our new government.

I must now subscribe with great respect and
affection,

Your humble servant,

R. T. Paine.

MR. GUSHING, MEMBER OF THE CONTINENTAL
CONGRESS, TO MR. GERRY.

Philadelphia, June 10, 1775.

Sir,
Dr. Church will bring with him a vote of the
congress advising our people to consider the go-
vernour and lieutenant governour as absent, and
82 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

their offices vacant ; and further recommending it
to the provincial congress to issue letters to all
such places as are entitled to a representation to
choose representatives, who when convened, are
advised to choose counsellors agreeable to the
charter ; which assembly, together with the coun-
sellors that may be chosen, are advised to carry
on the affairs of government until a governour of
his majesty's appointment will consent to govern
according to the directions of the charter. As to
giving a credit to our provincial note and regulat-
ing the army, you will hear further from the con-
gress soon. The bearer carries a recommendation
to the other colonies to supply you with all the
powder they can safely spare. In great haste,
I am, with respect,

Your most humble servant,

Thomas Cushing.

P. S. Pray let me hear from you soon con-
cerning my dear country. Must refer you for
particulars to Dr. Church.

Mr. Elbridge Gerry.

PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS TO MR. GERRY.

Sunday morning, June 18, 1775.

Dear Sir,
I have but a moment's time left to tell you,
that your order for the duck, &c. cannot be com-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 83

plied with, there being not enough here to make
it worth while to think of sending ; and indeed
they are in want of the same articles here. I
cannot inform you of the doings of congress in
general, being under an injunction ; but I am thus
far indulged to mention, but by no means to be
put in the newspaper at present, colonel Wash-
ington is appointed commander in chief of the
continental army ; I shall sign his commission to-
morrow, and he will depart in a few days. He is
a fine man. You will judge of the propriety of
the mode of his reception. Ten companies of fine
riflemen from this province, Maryland, and Vir-
ginia, are ordered to proceed immediately to your
army ; these are clever fellows. The committee
of the whole congress have agreed upon a report
for the immediate emission of two millions of dol-
lars upon the faith of the continent. Remember
me to Mr. Gill, Pitts, Cooper, and all friends.
Adieu, I am almost worn out.

I am your real friend,

John Hancock.

84 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER VIII.

Joseph Warren Arrival of General Washington at Cam-
bridge Letters from the Massachusetts Delegates.

While the provincial congress was in session at
Watertown, the battle most celebrated in the his-
tory of the revolution was fought at Bunker Hill.
Joseph Warren, then president of congress, died
there, filling a greater space in the eye of the pub-
lic than any who had before fallen in the cause of
the country. Dr. Warren had been the compa-
nion and room-mate of Mr. Gerry ; they lodged in
the same chamber. He intrusted to Mr. Gerry
alone the secret of his intention to be on the field,
and with something of a presentiment of his fate,
replied to the admonition of his friend, " Dulce et
decorum est pro patria mori."*

* Dr. Joseph Warren was one of Mr. Gerry's most intimate
personal companions. A similarity of taste, disposition and
principles, connected them in the closest habits of friendship.
They were so frequently together, that letters on political affairs
could rarely pass between them.

The public character of this eminent patriot is consecrated by
the memorable manner of his death. A volunteer in the ranks,
which he was soon to command, he sought opportunity of ac-
quiring military information, and lost in its acquisition a life de-
voted to his country ; or a pilgrim in the cause of humanity, he
fell a sacrifice to the beneficent desire of alleviating the suffer-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 85

Events, which fill mankind with admiration, fre-
quently occur without producing an excitement
upon their immediate agents. The prospect of

iligs of his fellow citizens. It is not yet, and may never be well
ascertained, whether Dr. Warren repaired to Bunker Hill to ex-
ercise, from motives of benevolence, the duties of the profession
he adorned, or to prepare himself in the school of experience
for the future duties of a soldier. There is some reason for be-
lieving it was as much the kindness of the physician as the zeal
of the general, which carried him to the fatal heights.

Dr. Warren possessed uncommon firmness in situations of
danger. The commemoration of the anniversary of the massa-
cre in Boston by the British soldiers on 5th March 1770, excited
great indignation among the king's officers, and it was distinctly
intimated on its recurrence in 1775, that no one, who consulted
his personal safety, would appear as the orator of the town. This
threat served as an inducement to Dr. Warren to undertake the
task, which he had once before performed, and he delivered his
celebrated oration on the fifth anniversary of that fatal event,
before an immense crowd in the Old South church.

The pulpit stairs (said an eye witness to the writer) were oc-
cupied by British officers. One of them was ostentatiously play-
ing with a couple of musket balls, which be occasionally threw
up and caught in his hand. A solemn silence pervaded the
whole assembly. The speaker seemed absorbed by his subject,
and indifferent to every thing but his theme. It was momenta-
rily expected by us that some interruption would take place. In
a few minutes a drum was heard. Was it the signal for another
outrage ? It approached, and its sound broke the attention of
the audience. With a countenance displaying the indignant feel-
ings, which the subject excited, his arm outstretched in an atti-
tude of dignity, the orator paused till the noise should subside
and leave him at liberty to be heard again by the people. There
was a slight movement round the house, the effect of intense in-
terest; for not a hair of his head would have been hurt without
most signal revenge.

The interruption was occasioned by changing guard, or some
other usual military movement, and the oration proceeded with-

86 LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY.

such a battle, however clear to a military eye,
seems not to have been realized by the delegates
at Watertown. The army at Cambridge rested
on their arms with an excuse, the fallacy of which
is so apparent that it is difficult to believe it was
ever considered satisfactory ; and the report of the
result, forwarded two days afterwards to the dele-
gates at Philadelphia, is so incorrect in its account
and deficient in its details, that it can hardly be
supposed the greatness of the event was under-
stood, or that its importance through all future ages
of the republic was in any degree realized. Had
the glory of that field been anticipated, it is not
to be believed that of so many ardent patriots as

out further inconvenience. It was supposed indeed, in the jeal-
ous feelings of the time, to have been intended to produce an
alarm, without actually incurring the odium of doing so.

Dr. Warren was a man of amiable private character, remark-
ably elegant in his personal appearance, fond of pleasure, and
devoted as much to classical studies as professional learning ;
but learning, literature and pleasure held no competition with
patriotism. There was a freedom and firmness in his manners,
which rendered him exceedingly popular. He was " grand mas-
ter of all the ancient masons through North America," at the
time of his death ; and at the request of the grand lodge, his
body was disinterred, and reburied with suitable honours in
Boston, on 8th April 1776. An oration was delivered on that
occasion by the present attorney general of Massachusetts, the
honourable Perez Morton, which is thought to rank with the
finest productions of American eloquence.

Death mocks the efforts of mankind to preserve the perishable
remains of mortality. It has not only been doubted whether the
bones that were exhumed for that solemn ceremony were the
true relicks, but where these even were placed on their second
interment.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 87

were assembled in the vicinity, Dr. Warren would
alone have had the honour of adding to the danger
of being in the councils, that of engaging in the
military service of his country ; nor that they who
had arms in their hands within sound of the can-
non, would have been restrained from endeavour-
ing to have turned the tide of battle, and triumph-
ing in the victories of their country.*

In July, general Washington, who had been ap-
pointed by the continental congress commander in
chief of the army, arrived at Cambridge, and deliv-
ered the following letters to Mr. Gerry.

MR. J. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Philadelphia, June 18, 1??.").

Dear Sir,
I have at last obtained liberty, by a vote of con-
gress, to acquaint my friends with a few of the
things that have been done.

* While the American army was encamped at Cambridge,
the mansion house and farm of the former lieutenant govcrnour
Oliver was occupied by the medical department. The soldiers,
who were wounded at Bunker Hill and in subsequent skirmishes
with the enemy, were carried there to be treated for tbeir
wounds. Many died and were buried in a field fronting the house.

Tbe estate, after tbe war, came into the possession of Mr.
Gerry, who held it at the time of his death. No ploughshare
was ever permitted by him to disturb the ashes of the soldiers of
the revolution. He considered it consecrated ground. It is to
be regretted that some public measures have not been taken to
protect it for the purpose to which it was originally appropriated.

88 TJFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The congress have voted, or rather a committee
of the whole house have unanimously agreed, that
the sum of two million dollars be issued in bills of
credit, for the redemption of which in a certain
number of years, twelve colonies have unanimous-
ly pledged themselves.

The congress has likewise resolved that fifteen
thousand men shall be supported at the expense of
the continent ; ten thousand at Massachusetts, and
five thousand at New-York ; and that ten compa-
nies of riflemen be sent immediately, six from
Pennsylvania, two from Maryland, and two from
Virginia, consisting of sixty-eight privates in each
company, to join our army at Boston. These are
said to be all exquisite marksmen, and by means
of the excellence of their firelocks, as well as their
skill in the use of them, to send sure destruction
to great distances.

General Washington is chosen commander in
chief, general Ward the first major general, and
general Lee the second (the last has not yet ac-
cepted), and major Gates adjutant general. Lee
and Gates are experienced officers. We have pro-
ceeded no further as yet.

I have never, in all my lifetime, suffered more
anxiety than in the conduct of this business. The
choice of officers, and their pay, have given me
great distress. Lee and Gates are officers of such
great experience and confessed abilities, that I
thought their advice, in a council of officers, might

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 89

be of great advantage to us ; but the natural pre-
judices, and virtuous attachment of our country-
men to their own officers, made me apprehen-
sive of difficulties. But considering the earnest
desire of general Washington to have the assist-
ance of these officers, the extreme attachment of
many of our best friends in the southern colonies
to them, the reputation they would give to our
arms in Europe, and especially with the ministeri-
al generals and army in Boston, as well as the real
American merit of them both, I could not with-
hold my vote from either.

The pay, which has been voted to all the officers,
which the continental congress intends to choose,
is so large, that I fear our people will think it ex-
travagant, and be uneasy. Mr. Adams, Mr. Paine
and myself, used our utmost endeavours to reduce
it, but in vain.

Those ideas of equality, which are so agreeable
to us natives of New-England, are very disagree-
able to many gentlemen in the other colonies.
They had a great opinion of the high importance
of a continental general, and were determined to
place him in an elevated point of light. They
think the Massachusetts establishment too high for
the privates, and too low for the officers, and they
would have their own way.

I hope the utmost politeness and respect will be
shown to these officers on their arrival. The
whole army, I think, should be drawn up upon
90 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the occasion, and all the pride, pomp and circum-
stance of glorious war displayed ; — no powder
burned, however.

There is something charming to me in the con-
duct of Washington. A gentleman of one of the
first fortunes upon the continent, leaving his deli-
cious retirement, his family and friends, sacrificing
his ease, and hazarding all in the cause of his
country ! His views are noble and disinterested.
He declared, when he accepted the mighty trust,
that he would lay before us an exact account of
his expenses, and not accept a shilling for pay.
The express waits. Adieu. J. A.

MR. S. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Philadelphia, June 22, 1775.

My Dear Sir,
Our patriotic general Washington will deliver
this letter to you. The Massachusetts delegates
have jointly given to him a list of the names of
certain gentlemen, in whom he may place the great-
est confidence. Among these you are one. Ma-
jor-general Lee and major Mifflin accompany the
general. They are a triumvirate which will please
the circle of our friends. Mifflin is aid-de-camp
to the general. I regret his leaving this city ; but
have the satisfaction of believing that he will add

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 91

great spirit to our army. Time will not admit of
my adding at present more than that I am
Your affectionate friend,

Samuel Adams.
Elbridge Gerry, Esq.

That an army of undisciplined militia should at-
tempt to keep the field against a powerful body of
regular troops, without powder enough to fire a
salute in honour of their commanding general,
shows what confidence they placed in the justice
of their cause, and how great was the public spirit
which could be relied upon as an equivalent for
this materiel of war.

No formal declaration of hostilities had yet been
made. The colonies still professed allegiance to
the crown, and the dream of independence, if it
had crossed the vision of the leading men of the
times, was yet too indistinct and imperfect to be
the subject of public discussion.

92 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER IX.

First measure of Naval Warfare Correspondence ivith John

Adams.

The commander in chief was every where re-
ceived with cordiality and respect ; but the ad-
dresses that were made to him expressed a be-
lief in the temporary character of his command ;
and although on two fatal occasions the blood
of the country had been poured out like water
in open conflict with the armed troops of the
king, the minds of the people had not shaken
off their colonial vassalage. They were content-
ed to be subjects ; they asked only not to be
slaves.

Some men in the grand assemblies which direct-
ed these important affairs, saw that a revolution
had begun, and they knew the truth of a remark of
later time, the sentiment of which then influenced
their conduct, that " revolutions do not go back-
ward." They became sensible that war was in
fact waged, and that the issue of the conflict
would depend on the vigour, with which it was
maintained. These statesmen were disposed to
secure to the colonies all the advantages of bel-
ligerents, and as an army was authorized on land,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 93

they were inclined to prepare and commission a
regular naval force to co-operate by sea.

Anions: the most determined of these was Mr.
Gerry. Ardent and persevering in his natural ,
disposition, he became warmed with additional
zeal by circumstances, which daily came under
his observation. His own fortune and fame he
had early and freely embarked in the cause, and
he was indefatigable in exciting a corresponding
disposition in the minds of his associates, and giv-
ing to their common efforts the most powerful
direction.

To do this he thought free opportunity should
be allowed to the enterprise of a mercantile and
military marine, which, under the authority of the
province, should be authorized to capture and
bring in for adjudication hostile property on the
high seas. But the arrangements of such a plan
were not free from formidable embarrassments.
To grant letters of marque and reprisal is the
prerogative of the sovereign, and for a colony to
authorize such an act against its acknowledged
sovereign, was certainly rebellious if not treasona-
ble. The preparation of the Americans had hith-
erto been limited to self-defence. They had pro-
fessed no other or further design ; and it was not
without serious question, whether the people were
yet ready to sanction measures of a different
character. But aggression is sometimes the best,
and sometimes the only defence.

94 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Impressed with the importance of the object,
and trusting to the intelligence of the community
to see and approve its advantages, Mr. Gerry pro-
posed appointing a committee to prepare a law to
encourage the fitting out of armed vessels, and to
establish a court for the trial and condemnation of
prizes. The measure was sustained, though not
without opposition, and Mi. Gerry was of course
chairman of the committee.

It was no slight difficulty to make this law ap-
pear even plausibly consistent with the provincial
character of Massachusetts. The difficulty was
suggested to Mr. Gerry by some gentlemen not
so seriously impressed with its importance as he
was. Never fear, said he, we will contrive to
' whereas' the matter into some reasonable form.

The law reported by. this committee was pass-
ed by the provincial congress November 10, 1775,
and is the first actual avowal of offensive hostility
against the mother country, which is to be found
in the annals of the revolution. It is not. the less
worthy of consideration as the first effort to estab-
lish an American naval armament. Its preamble
is a curious effort to reconcile the theory of obe-
dience and the fact of resistance ; to maintain
nominal allegiance with actual rebellion.*

* At a later day Mr. Gerry gave the following account of this
law in a letter to Mr. Adams.

"This reminds me of an anecdote often told by the late gover-
nour Sullivan of an act, which was prepared by him and myself

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 95

In referring to this law, Mrs. Warren in her his-
tory of the revolution, calls it a " spirited measure
contemplated by few." The arming and equip-
ping ships (she says) to cruise on British property,
was a bold attempt, that startled the apprehen-
sions of many, zealously opposed to the exercise of
British power.

President Adams, one of the great actors in
this national drama, and whose correspondence
has so often already illustrated its character and
interest, commenting at a subsequent period on
Mrs. Warren's history, remarks in a letter to Mr.
Gerry, " I should have expected this ingenious
lady would have inserted your law, which is one
of the most important documents in the histo-
ry of the revolution ; but the above paragraph
is all she says upon an event so extremely im-
portant to the salvation of her country at that time
and this."

in the lobby of the Watertown meeting-house, where at that
time the provincial congress held its session, the lobby being a
small apartment, with a window, under the belfry. The act
was to authorize privateering. The governour agreed to draw
the act on condition that I should prepare the preamble. This
1 grounded on the royal charter of the province, which authoriz-
ed us to levy war against the common enemy of both countries.
Such we considered the British nation, with the ships of war
and armies employed against us; and we, accordingly, as loyal
subjects, used all the power given us by the charter to capture
and destroy them. The governour said the act and its preamble
was printed in the London Magazine, as a political curiosity." —
See Appendix A.

96 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

" Is it not strange that one of the boldest, most
dangerous, and most important measures and
epochas in the history of the new world, the com-
mencement of an independent national establish-
ment of a new maritime and naval military pow-
er, should be thus carelessly and confusedly hur-
ried over ? Had the historian never read the law
of Massachusetts, nor the journals of congress ?

" History is not the province of the ladies.
Her three volumes nevertheless contain many
facts worthy preservation."

The success of the Massachusetts' cruisers jus-
tified the wisdom of this adventurous policy. The
sea was covered with light armed vessels, and ar-
ticles of essential consequence were captured, not
more to the discomfiture of the enemy than for
the relief and supply of the colonists. By suc-
cessful enterprise on the element, on which they
were familiar, the spirits of the people were excit-
ed, their wants supplied, their enemy distressed,
and a prospect opened to them that the conflict,
however unequal, would not be desperate. While
these measures were pursued in Massachusetts,
the congress at Philadelphia were beginning to
move in the same concern. The following letter
of enquiry will show that the honour of the first
act belonged to Massachusetts.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 97

MR. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Philadelphia, Nov. 5, 1775.

Dear Sir,

I am under such restrictions, injunctions and
engagements of secrecy respecting every thing
which passes in congress, that I cannot communi-
cate my own thoughts freely to my friends, so far
as is necessary to ask their advice and opinions
concerning questions, which many of them under-
stand much better than I do. This, however, is
an inconvenience, which must be submitted to for
the sake of superiour advantages.

But I must take the liberty to say, that I think
we shall soon attend to maritime affairs and naval
preparations : no great things are to be expect-
ed at first, but out of a little a great deal may
grow.

It is very odd that I, who have spent my days in
researches and employments so very different, and
who have never thought much of old ocean, or the
dominion of it, should be necessitated to make
such enquiries : but it is my fate and my duty,
and therefore I must attempt it.

I am to enquire what number of seamen may be
found in our province, who would probably enlist
in the service, either as marines, or on board of
98 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

armed vessels, in the pay of the continent, or in
the pay of the province, or on board of pri-
vateers, fitted out by private adventurers.

I must also entreat you, to let me know the
names, places of abode and characters, of such
persons belonging to any of the seaport towns in
our province, as are qualified for officers and
commanders of armed vessels.

I want to be further instructed, what ships,
brigantines, schooners, &c. are to be found in
any port of the province, to be sold or hired
out, which will be suitable for armed vessels.
What their tonnage, the depth of water they draw,
their breadth, their decks, &c. and to whom they
belong, and what is their age.

Further, what places in our province are most
secure and best accommodated for building new
vessels of force, in case a measure of that kind
should be thought of. The committee have re-
turned, much pleased with what they have seen
and heard, which shows that their embassy will
be productive of happy effects. They say the
only disagreeable circumstance was, that their
engagements, haste and constant attention to
business was such as prevented them from form-
ing such acquaintances with the gentlemen of our
province as they wished. But as congress was
waiting for their return before they could deter-
mine upon affairs of the last moment, they had
not time to spare.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 99

They arc pretty well convinced, I believe, of
several important points, which they and others
doubted before.

New-Hampshire has leave to assume a govern-
ment, and so has South Carolina ; but this must
not be freely talked of as yet, at least from me.

New-England will now be able to exert her
strength, which a little time will show to be
greater than either Great Britain or America
imagines. I give you joy of the agreeable pros-
pect in Canada. We have the colours of the
seventh regiment as the first fruits of victory.

John Adams.

The recollections of distinguished men, who
were concerned in laying the foundation of that
national establishment, which is now the favourite
and the pride of the people, may justify a depart-
ure from the chronological order of their letters
for the purpose of introducing the following ex-
tracts connected with the origin of the American
navy.

MR. ADAMS TO VICE-PRESIDENT GERRY.

Qcincy, Jan. 28, 1813.

Extract.

Philadelphia is now boasting that Paul Jones
has asserted in his journal that " this hand hoisted

100 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the first American flag ;" and captain Barry has
asserted that " the first British flag was struck to
him."

Now I assert that the first American flag was
hoisted by John Manly, and the first British flag
was struck to him. You were not in congress in
1775, but you was in the state congress, and must
have known the history of Manly's capture of the
transport which contained the mortar, which after-
wards on Dorchester heights drove the English
army from Boston, and navy from the harbour.
I pray you give me your recollections upon this
subject. I wish to know the number of trans-
ports and merchant ships and their names, cap-
tured by Manly or any of his associates, in 1775-6.

As your time and thoughts must be employed
upon subjects of much greater moment, I hope
you will not give yourself any trouble about this
little thing. ^Your first recollections will be suffi-
cient. With cordial salutation to your fire-side,
and fervent prayers for the success of your public
energies, I am your old friend,

John Adams.

VICE-PRESIDENT GERRY TO MR. ADAMS.

Cambridge, Feb. 9, 1813.
Extract.

Captain John Selman of Marblehead, has re-
freshed my memory by the following statement.

LIFE OF ELBRTDGE GERRY. 101

In the fall of the year 1775, general Washington
commissioned Nicholas Broughton and himself,
both living in Marblehead, the former as commo-
dore of two schooners, one mounting 6 four-pound
cannon, and manned by seventy seamen, and the
other of less force, having only sixty-five men.
The commodore hoisted his broad pendant on
board the former, and Selman commanded the
latter.

These vessels were ordered to the river St.
Lawrence, to intercept an ammunition vessel
bound to Quebec, but missing her they took ten
other vessels and governour Wright, of St. Johns,
all of which were released, as we had waged a
ministerial war, and not one against our most
gracious sovereign.

Elbridge Gerry.

MR. ADAMS TO VICE-PRESIDENT GERRY.

Quinct, Feb. 11, 1813.

Dear Sir,
I am much obliged by your favour of the 9th,
just received. Though I called the subject of my
former letter a bagatelle, it is perhaps of some im-
portance ; for as a navy is now an object, I think
a circumstantial history of naval operations in this

102 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

country ought to be written, even as far back as
the province ship under captain Hollowell, &c. ;
and perhaps earlier still.

Looking into the journal of congress for 1775,
I find on Friday, September 22, 1775, congress
resolved that a committee be appointed to take
into consideration the state of the trade of

America.

Monday, Sept. 25, 1775. Congress took into
consideration the letters from general Washington,
Nos. 5 and 6, and two others not numbered. Re-
solved, that a committee of three be appointed to
prepare an answer. Mr. Lynch, Mr. Lee, and
Mr. Adams were chosen. But our accurate secre-
tary has not stated whether it was Samuel or John
Adams.

Thursday, Oct. 5, 1775. Resolved, that a com-
mittee of three be appointed to prepare a plan for
intercepting two vessels, which are on their way
to Canada, laden with arms and powder ; and that
the committee proceed on this business immedi-
ately.

Our correct secretary has omitted the names of
this committee ; but if my memory has not creat-
ed something out of nothing, this committee were
Silas Deane, John Langdon and John Adams. On
the same day, the committee appointed to prepare
a plan for intercepting the two vessels bound to
Canada, brought in a report, which was taken into
consideration ; whereupon

LIFE OF FLBRIDGE GERRY. 103

"Resolved, that a letter be sent to general Wash-
ington, to inform him that congress, having receiv-
ed certain intelligence of the sailing of two north
country-built brigs of no force, from England on
the 11th of August last, loaded with arms, pow-
der and other stores for Quebec, without convoy,
which it being of importance to intercept, desire
that he apply to the council of Massachusetts
bav, for the two armed vessels in their service,
and despatch the same with a sufficient number
of people, stores, &c, particularly a number of
oars, in order, if possible, to intercept the said
two brigs and their cargoes, and secure the same
for the use of the continent ; also any other trans-
ports laden with ammunition, clothing or other
stores for the use of the ministerial army or navy
in America, and secure them in the most conve-
nient places for the purpose above mentioned ; that
he give the commander or commanders such in-
structions as are necessary, as also proper encour-
agement to the marines and seamen that shall be
sent upon this enterprise, which instructions are
to be delivered to the commander or commanders
sealed up, with orders not to open the same until
out of sight of land, on account of secrecy.

That a letter be written to the said honourable
council, to put the said vessels under the general's
command and direction, and to furnish him instant-
ly with every necessary in their power, at the ex-
pense of the continent.

104 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

That the general be directed to employ the said
vessels, and others if he judge necessary, to effect
the purposes aforesaid ; and that he be informed
that the Rhode-Island and Connecticut vessels of
force will be sent directly to their assistance.

That a letter be written to governour Cooke,
informing him of the above, desiring him to de-
spatch one or both the armed vessels of the colony
of Rhode-Island on the same service, and that he
use the precautions above mentioned.

That a letter be written to governour Trumbull,
requesting of him the largest vessel in the service
of the colony of Connecticut, to be sent on the en-
terprise aforesaid, acquainting him with the above
particulars, and recommending the same precau-
tions.

That the said ships and vessels of war be on
the continental risk and pay, during their being
so employed."

Friday, Oct. 6, 1775. The committee appointed
to prepare a plan, &c. (i. e. a plan for intercept-
ing vessels, &c.) brought in a further report, which
was read ; ordered to lie on the table, for the pe-
rusal of the members.

Friday, Oct. 13, 1775. A letter from general
Washington, dated 5th October, with sundry pa-
pers enclosed, was read.

The congress, taking into consideration the re-
port of the committee appointed to prepare a plan,
&c. after some debate, resolved that a swift sail-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGF GERRY. 105

ing vessel, to carry ten carriage guns and a pro-
portionable number of swivels, with eighty men,
be fitted with all possible despatch, for a cruise of
three months, and that the commander be instruct-
ed to cruise eastward, for intercepting such trans-
ports as may be laden with warlike stores and
other supplies for our enemies, and for such other
purposes as the congress shall direct.

That a committee of three be appointed to pre-
pare an estimate of the expense, and to lay the
same before the congress, and to contract with
proper persons to fit out the vessel.

Resolved, that another vessel be fitted out for
the same purposes, and that the said committee
report their opinion of a proper vessel, and also an
estimate of the expense. The following members
were chosen to compose the committee : Mr.
Deane, Mr. Langdon and Mr. Gadsden. Resolv-
ed, that the further consideration of the report be
referred to Monday next, (i. e. the report of the
committee to prepare a plan, &c.)

Tuesday, Oct. 17, 1775. The committee ap-
pointed to prepare an estimate, &c. brought in
their report, which after debate was recommit-
ted.

Monday, Oct. 30. The committee appointed to
prepare an estimate and to fit out the vessels,
brought in their report, which being taken into
consideration, resolved, that the second vessel or-
dered to be fitted out on the 13th instant, be of
106 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

such a size as to carry fourteen guns, and a pro-
portionate number of swivels and men.

Resolved, that two more vessels be fitted out
with all expedition ; the one to carry not exceed-
ing twenty guns, and the other not exceeding
thirty- six guns, with a proportionable number of
swivels and men, to be employed in such manner,
for the protection and defence of the united colo-
nies, as the congress shall direct.

Resolved, that four members be chosen and add-
ed to the former committee of three ; and that
these seven be a committee to carry into execution
with all possible expedition, as well the resolu-
tions of congress passed the 13th instant, as those
passed this day, for fitting out armed vessels. The
members chosen, Mr. Hopkins, Mr. Hewes, Mr.
R. H. Lee and Mr. John Adams.

Nov. 2, 1775. Resolved, that the above com-
mittee be authorized to draw on the treasury for
money, to agree with officers and seamen, &c.
See the resolution at large, p. 213.

Nov. 23. The committee reported rules for the
government of the navy, &c.

Nov. 25. Congress authorized privateering, &c.
See the solemn act at large.

Nov. 28. Congress adopted the rules for the na-
vy. See them in the journal.

Dec. 9. Congress established the pay of the
navy.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 107

Dec. 13. Congress resolved, on the report of
the committee, to build thirteen ships ; five of 32
guns, five of 28, and three of 24 ; and, Dec. 12th.
appointed a committee of thirteen, one from each
state, to do the business. I was gone home, by
leave of congress ; but I presume Barry and Jones
were appointed by this committee.

General Heath, in his memoirs, page 30, says,
Nov. 4, , the privateers fitted out by the
Americans about this time, began to send in a few
prizes. Page 31, Nov. 30, he says, " intelligence
was received from Cape Ann, that a vessel from
England, laden with warlike stores, had been taken
and brought into that place. There was on board
one 13-inch brass mortar, 2000 stand of arms,
100,000 flints, 32 tons of leaden ball, &c. &c. A
fortunate capture for the Americans ! Dec. 2, the
brass 13-inch mortar, and sundry military stores
taken in the ordnance prize, were brought to
camp."

Pray write to captain John Selman of Marble-
head, and pray him to commit his recollections to
writing. Broughton and Selman are important
characters, and their ten prizes important events ;
as well as governour Wright. Pray let me have
the act and the preamble ; curiosities they are.
Who was captain Burke and the other ? Campbell
and military stores, &c. These facts ought all to
be ascertained. Heath was mistaken ; privateer-

108 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ing was not yet authorized by congress or the
state.

Ever your's,

John Adams.
His excellency Elbridge Gerry.

P. S. What might Massachusetts, Connecticut
and Rhode-Island not do, at this fay, had they
the patriotism of 1775 ?

MR. ADAMS TO VICE-PRESIDENT GERRY.

Quincy, April 14, 1813.

Dear Sir,

I have received your favours of the 8th and
10th, and the. volume of Benjamin Edes's Ga-
zettes printed at Watertown between the 5th of
June 1775, and the 9th of December 1776.

I am much obliged to you and to Mr. Austin,
for the loan of this precious collection of me-
morials.

I read last fall and winter, The Scottish Chiefs,
Thaddeus of Warsaw and The Exiles of Siberia,
and Scott's Lay, Marmion and Lady ; and I must
say with much interest and amusement ; but this
volume of Gazettes and the journals of congress for
the same period which I have lately ran over, have
given me much more heartfelt delight. If these

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 109

volumes appear to you as they do to me, how can
we wonder at the total ignorance and oblivion of
the revolution, which appears every where in the
present generation. All the Boston orations on
the 4th of July that I have ever read or heard
contain not so much of " the manners and feelings
and principles which led to the revolution" as
these two volumes of Gazettes and Journals.

The act printed in the Gazette of November
13, 1775, " In the sixteenth year of the reign
of George the third, king, &c. an act for en-
couraging the fixing out of armed vessels to de-
fend the sea coast of America, and for erecting
a court to try and condemn all vessels that shall
be found infesting the same," is one of the most
important documents in history.* Why may not
the Chronicle or the Patriot reprint this law ?
Surely this could be no libel. Neither editors
nor printers need consult lawyers to know wheth-
er chief justice Parsons could find any expression
in it, to give in charge to a grand jury.

The best care shall be taken of this volume,
and it shall be returned to Mr. Austin, with thanks.

" Commodore Williams's record of our earliest
privateers and prizes" will be received with grati-
tude : but I should be glad to see them in the
Chronicle and Centinel.

* This is the title of the act drawn by Mr. Gerry and Mr. Sul-
livan as before stated.

110 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Had I not been in congress at the time, and as
anxious as Martha about many things, I should be
ashamed to acknowledge that I am unacquainted
with his person, character and residence.

I can conceive of no possible objection against
the publication of these things at this time ; ex-
cept that they do too much honour to vice-presi-
dent Gerry, and to the memory of the late gover-
nour Sullivan.

" Quorum pars magna Jut" might be assumed
by them with more propriety, than by your assur-
ed friend,

John Adams.

Vice-president Gerry. -

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 1 1 1

CHAPTER X.

Appointed Judge of Admiralty in Massachusetts Letter declin-
ing the Appointment Correspondence with Samuel Adams

Private Life of the Members of the Provincial Congress.

In pursuance of the design of the law of No-
vember 10, 1775, courts were established by the
authority of the province for the trial and con-
demnation of prizes, and the lucrative place of
maritime judge for the counties of Suffolk, Mid-
dlesex and Essex, was offered to Mr. Gerry. The
following letter explains his reasons for refusing
this honourable appointment.

MR. GERRY TO THE COUNCIL OF THE COLONY OF
MASSACHUSETTS BAY.

Marblehead, Dec. 9, 1775.

May it please your Honours,
I was notified by your secretary last evening,
that your honours had appointed me to the place
of maritime judge for the counties of Suffolk, Mid-
dlesex and Essex, and the information was receiv-
ed with gratitude and respect, as a repeated in-
stance of your kindness towards me.

112 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The appointment I consider as altogether aris-
ing from the favour of your honours, and not from
any merit in myself; yet, diffident as I am of
being able to discharge the duties with correct-
ness, I should nevertheless feel bound to obey this
unexpected call, if it did not militate with the
public concerns in which I am engaged, and
which appear to me of equal if not superiour im-
portance.

As it will be impracticable for me to fill the
office consistently with engagements to which I
have referred, I beg leave to be excused from ac-
cepting the appointment, and flatter myself with
your honours' approbation of the motives by which
I am influenced.

I shall at all times take pleasure in supporting
the authority of your honourable body, and in ex-
erting myself to give efficacy to your measures,
and am with great respect,

Your honours' obedient servant,

Elbridge Gerry.

Military preparation did not wholly occupy the
attention of the provincial congress of Massachu-
setts. With a prudent forecast they looked be-
yond the temporary state of things, and believing
that they were establishing a new government, in
which their posterity as well as themselves were

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERHY. 113

interested, were desirous of fixing it upon princi-
ples which wisdom might approve, and with a
permanency that future generations might be per-
mitted to admire.

MR. S. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Philadelphia, Sept. 26, 1775.

My Dear Sir,

I arrived in this city on the 12th instant, hav-
ing rode full three hundred miles on horseback, an
exercise which I have not used for many years
past. I think it. has contributed to the establish-
ment of my health, for which I am obliged to my
friend Mr. John Adams, who kindly offered me
one of his horses the day after we sat off from
Watertown.

I write you this letter, principally to put you in
mind of the promise you made me to give me in-
telligence of what is doing in our assembly and
the camp. Believe me, sir, it is of great import-
ance that we should be informed of every circum-
stance of our affairs. The eyes of friends and
foes are attentively fixed on our province, and if
jealousy or envy can sully its reputation, you may
depend upon it they will not miss the opportunity.
It behoves our friends, therefore, to be very cir-
cumspect, and in all their public conduct to con-
vince the world, that they are influenced not by
114 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

partial or private motives, but altogether with a
view of promoting the public welfare.

Some of our military gentlemen have, I fear,
disgraced us ; it is then important that every
anecdote that concerns a man of real merit among
them, and such I know there are, be improved,
as far as decency will admit of it, to their advan-
tage and the honour of a colony, which, for its
zeal in the great cause, as well as its sufferings,
deserves so much of America.

Until I visited head quarters at Cambridge, I
had never heard of the valour of Prescott at Bunk-
er's hill, nor the ingenuity of Knox and Waters in
planning the celebrated works at Roxbury. We
were told here that there were none in our camp
who understood the business of an engineer, or any
thing more than the manual exercise of the gun.
This we had from great authority, and for want of
more certain intelligence were obliged at least to
be silent. There are many military geniuses at
present unemployed and overlooked, who I hope,
when the army is new modelled, will be sought
after and invited into the service of their country.
They must be sought after, for modest merit de-
clines pushing itself into public view. I know
your disinterested zeal, and therefore need add
no more than to assure you that I am with cor-
dial esteem, Your friend,

Samuel Adams.

Elbridge Gerry, Esq.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 1 1 5

MR. GERRY TO MR. ADAMS.

Watkrtown, Oct. 9, 1775.

Dear Sir,

1 received your letter of September 26th. It
gives me great satisfaction to hear that your ride
on horseback has contributed to your health. I
hope the friends of America, who are transacting
the most important concerns of their country, will
not find the want of so valuable a blessing.

I unite in your opinion that the eyes of friends
and foes are fixed on this colony, and if jealousy
or envy can sully its reputation they will not miss
the opportunity. Great attempts have been made
to do this by representing the expenses of the
camp as unreasonable. These expenses have been
great, but they only, who do not know our situa-
tion, would call them extravagant. Let it be re-
membered that the first attack was made on this
colony ; that we had to keep a regular force with-
out the advantage of a regular government ; that
we had to support in the field from 12 to 14,000
men, when the whole forces voted by the other
New-England governments amounted to 8,500
only. That New-Hampshire found it impractica-
ble to support its own troops at so short notice,
and was for a considerable time actually supplied
with provisions from this province. That after

116 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

we had ransacked the seaports and obtained all
that was not wanted for their immediate support,
and had stopped two cargoes of flour owned in
Boston, it was found that all the pork and grain
in the government would not more than supply
the inhabitants and the army until the new crops
came in, and that there was no way left, unassist-
ed as we were by the continent or any other colo-
ny, for we never had a barrel of continental flour
to supply the army, but to write a circular letter to
every town in the counties of Worcester, Hamp-
shire and Berkshire, desiring them in the most
pressing terms to send in provisions, and engaging
that the inhabitants should be allowed the cus-
tomary price in their respective towns, and the
teamsters the usual rate for carting. But for this
measure the forces of this colony and New-Hamp-
shire must have dispersed.

My attention is directed to the fitting out of
privateers, which I hope will make them swarm
here. Is it not time to encourage individuals to
exert themselves this way ? General Gage before
the commencement of hostilities destroyed or con-
fiscated the provisions then collecting for the army,
and can we hesitate at this time about the pro-
priety of confiscating vessels employed by him to
infest the coasts, or supply his troops, or can we
doubt the propriety of encouraging individuals by
giving them the advantage resulting from their
reprisals, when it is certain that other plans will

LIFE OF ELB1UDGE GERRY. 117

not meet with such success as will probably attend

this ?

If the continent should fit out a heavy ship or
two, and increase them as circumstances shall ad-
mit, the colonies large privateers, and individuals
small ones, surely we may soon expect to see the
coast clear of cutters. The salt-petre discoveries
are lately very great. Attention is paid here to
the manufacture, and it is hoped that ere long the
manufactory of powder will be equally promoted.
When I say attention I mean the attention of in-
dividuals ; it is not yet generally practised through
the government. Dr. Whiting is ordered to set
up a leech here, that the members of the court
seeing the process as by him reported may be
able to direct works in the recess of the court
in their respective towns.

The manufacture of fire-arms is not less an ob-
ject of regard. A committee of both houses is
upon the militia bills, and great attention ought to
be paid to this matter. I wish to see the militia
formed not only into battalions, but also brigades
with brigadiers for each county to be under the
direction of the generals of the continent when-
ever they are called to reinforce the army; this
adopted throughout America must be evidently ad-
vantageous whenever the enemy shall make incur-
sions that must be repulsed by the militia, and
such we may probably expect.

With respect to the army nothing new occurs,

118 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

unless it be the affair of Dr. Church, which con-
tinues as when I wrote Mr. Paine. He is con-
fined under a guard of fifty men, without being
permitted to communicate with any one. Num-
bers of flat bottom boats are building in Cambridge
river to carry about fifty men each, but whether
with design to go to Boston or otherwise, I know
not. The camp is generally easy and healthy.
Pray make my respects to your brethren from this
colony, and believe me sincerely

Your most obedient,

And very humble servant,

E. Gerry.

P. S. Since closing the above, I observe by
extracts from the prints that the parliament is ad-
journed and the ministry vigorous in their mea-
sures. If they are sending to Hanover for troops,
as well as to Ireland, is it not time for us to think
of alliances ? We may depend on their pushing
matters with the utmost violence, if the American
tories can effect or they themselves dare to attempt
it. The colonies are daily improving in the art of
war, and will soon be invincible ; but if foreign
force is employed against us, we may be greatly
puzzled, unless we endeavour at the same thing,
especially by our want of military stores before
our manufactures are further advanced. If any
ill consequence from such a measure be dreaded,
may it not be asked, what consequence can be

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 119

more miserable to America than its subjugation ?
What is more to be dreaded ? What more fatal ?
We have hitherto been foremost in our plans. I
hope the same spirit will continue.

MR. S. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

PmLADELPHrA, Oct. 29, 1775.

My Dear Sir,

I wrote to you a few days ago by young Mr.
Brown, and then acknowledged your favour of the
9th instant.

You tell me that a committee of both houses of
assembly is appointed to bring in a militia bill. I
am of your opinion, that this matter requires great
attention, and I wish with you to see our militia
formed not only into battalions, but also brigades.
But should we not be cautious of putting them un-
der the direction of the generals of the continent,
at least until such a legislative shall be establish-
ed over all America, as every colony shall consent
to?

The continental army is very properly under the
direction of the continental congress. Possibly, if
ever such a legislative should be formed, it may be
proper that the whole military power in every colo-
ny should be under its absolute direction. Be that
as it may, will it not till then be prudent that the
militia of each colony should be and remain under

120 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the sole direction of its own legislative, which is
and ought to be the sovereign and uncontrollable
power within its own limits or territory ? I hope
our militia will always be prepared to aid the
forces of the continent in this righteous opposition
to tyranny. But this ought to be done upon an
application to the government of the colony. Your
militia is your natural strength, which ought un-
der your own direction to be employed for your
own safety and protection. It is a misfortune to
a colony to become the seat of war. Tt is always
dangerous to the liberties of the people to have an
army stationed among them, over which they have
no control. There is at present a necessity for
it ; the continental army is kept up within our co-
lony, most evidently for our immediate security.
But it should be remembered that history affords
abundant instances of established armies making
themselves the masters of those countries, which
they were designed to protect. There may be no
danger of this at present, but it should be a
caution not to trust the whole military strength of
a colony in the hands of commanders independent
of its established legislative.

It is now in the power of our assembly to estab-
lish many wholesome laws and regulations, which
could not be done under the former administration
of government. Corrupt men may be kept out of
places of public trust ; the utmost circumspection
I hope will be used in the choice of men for public

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 121

officers. It is to be expected that some who are
void of the least regard to the public, will put on
the appearance and even speak boldly the language
of patriots, with the sole purpose of gaining the
confidence of the public, and securing the loaves
and fishes for themselves or their sons or other
connexions. Men who stand candidates for public
posts, should be critically traced in their views and
pretensions, and though we would despise mean
and base suspicion, there is a degree of jealousy
which • is absolutely necessary in this degenerate
state of mankind, and is indeed at all times to be
considered as a political virtue. It is in your pow-
er also to prevent a plurality of places incompati-
ble with each other being vested in the same per-
sons. This our patriots have loudly and very
justly complained of in time past, and it will be
an everlasting disgrace to them if they suffer the
practice to continue. Care I am informed is tak-
ing to prevent the evil with as little inconvenience
as possible, but it is my opinion that the remedy
ought to be deep and thorough.

After all, virtue is the surest means of securing
the public liberty. I hope you will improve the
golden opportunity of restoring the ancient purity
of principles and manners in our country. Every
thing that we do, or ought to esteem valuable, de-
pends upon it. For freedom or slavery, says an
admired writer, will prevail in a country according
122 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

as the disposition and manners of the inhabitants
render them fit for the one or the other.

P. S. Nov. 4th. Yesterday the colours of the
7th regiment were presented to the congress.
They were taken at Fort Chamblee ; the garrison
surrendered prisoners of war to Major Brown of
the Massachusetts forces, with one hundred and
twenty-four barrels of gunpowder ! May heaven
grant us further success.

MR. GERRY TO MR. ADAMS.

Watertown, Dec. 13, 1775.

Dear Sir,
With pleasure I received your letter of October
29th, relative to the militia and other subjects
equally important. When writing on the subject
of the militia, I proposed they should be under the
command of a continental general in case of their
being raised to reinforce his army, and upon the
supposition that this must require an act of the
court of the colony whose militia should be thus
raised. A continental general as such, I am clearly
of opinion, ought not to have any command of the
militia. It is by no means necessary for general
defence. It would lead a principal servant of the
government to forget his station, and conceive him-
self its master ; but since, in military operations,

LIFE OF ELMUDGE GERRY. I J:)

it is absolutely necessary to have but one head.
each assembly would find it necessary that the
commanding officer of the army, which their militia
should occasionally reinforce, should take the com-
mand of such part as they might order to his assist-
ance, and this during the pleasure only of such as-
sembly, upon which plan he would, as to this, be
in effect a colonial officer. We already see a
growing thirst for power in some of the inferiour
departments of the army, which ought to be regu-
lated so far as to keep the military entirely subser-
vient to the civil in every part of the united colo-
nies.

Your sentiments on the choice of men for public
offices are extremely just. The jealousy you
speak of is plentifully produced in our house of
representatives. This is so natural to their habits,
and toryism so noxious, that an enemy to America
might as well attempt to scale the regions of
bliss, as to insinuate himself into the favour of
the assembly ; but I should be glad to see a suffi-
cient guard against the choice of men on account
of pecuniary recommendation. It is happy to find
a man independent in his fortune, of good sense
and true patriotism filling a public office ; but when
the last is wanting, the possession of the first is
an evil. Notwithstanding which, there have been
instances in this government of persons chosen
into public office, who might have lived till the
millenium in silent obscurity, had they depended

124 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

on their mental qualifications to bring them into
public view.

With respect to incompatible offices, a bill is
on foot to prevent this evil, and particular care
will be taken to exclude gentlemen of the army
from the legislative, that military influence may
never reach the senate.

History can hardly produce such a series of
events as have taken place in favour of American
opposition. The hand of Heaven appears to have
directed every occurrence. Had such an event as
lately occurred in Essex happened to Cromwell,
he would have published it as a miracle in his
favour, and excited his soldiers to enthusiasm and
bravery.*

The manufacture of salt-petre is increasing.
We shall be greatly served, if a plan of the Phila-
delphia powder mills can be sent us, which, Mr.
Revere tells me, the owner was so selfish as
to refuse, without a reward of one hundred half
Joannes.

Your very true friend,

Elbridge Gerry.

* Alluding to a statement in the public prints, that some pa-
pers thrown overboard from a privateer at sea, were fished up
and brought into port many days afterwards by another vessel.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 125

MR. S. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Philadelphia, Jan. 2, 177G.

My Dear Sir,

Your very acceptable letter of the 13th of De-
cember is now before me. Our opinions of the
necessity of keeping the military power under the
direction and control of the legislative, I always
thought were alike. It was far from my intention
in my letter to you on the subject, to attempt the
correcting any imagined errour in your judgment,
but rather shortly to express my own apprehen-
sions at this time, when it is become necessary to
tolerate that power, which is always formidable,
and has so often proved fatal to the liberties of
mankind.

It gives me great satisfaction to be informed, that
the members of the house of representatives are
possessed of so warm a spirit of patriotism, as that
" an enemy to America may as well attempt to scale
the regions of bliss, as to insinuate himself into their
favour." Whatever kind of men may be denomi-
nated enemies to their country, certainly he is a
very injudicious friend to it, who gives his suffrage
for any man to fill a public office, merely because
he is rich ; and yet you tell me there are recent
instances of this in our government. I confess it
mortifies me greatly. The giving such a prefer-

126 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ence to riches is both dishonourable and dangerous
to a government. It is indeed equally dangerous
to promote a man to a place of public trust only
because he wants bread, but I think it is not so dis-
honourable ; for men may be influenced to the lat-
ter from the feelings of humanity, but the other
argues a base, degenerate, servile temper of mind.
I hope our country will never see the time, when
either riches or the want of them will be the lead-
ing considerations in the choice of public officers.
Whenever riches shall be deemed a necessary
qualification, ambition as well as avarice will
prompt men most ardently to thirst for them, and
it will be commonly said, as in ancient times of
degeneracy,

Quterenda pecunia primum est,
Virtus post nummos.

" Get money, money still,
And then let virtue follow if she will."

I am greatly honoured, if my late letter has
been acceptable to the house. I hope the militia
bill, to which that letter referred, is completed to
the satisfaction of both houses of the assembly.

The account you give me of the success our
people meet with in the manufacture of salt-petre
is highly pleasing to me. I procured of a gentle-
man in the colony of New- York, the plan of a
powder mill, which I lately sent to Mr. Revere.
I hope it may be of some use.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 127

I have time at present only to request you to
write to me by the post, and to assure you that I
am

Your affectionate friend,

Samuel Adams.
Elbridge Gerry, Esq.

It would be desirable, if it were practicable, to
catch a view of the private manners of men, who
seemed in their public life to feel that a controlling
and all powerful interest connected them with the
political destiny of the country, and that their fate
and the fate of posterity was dependant on the
fidelity of their conduct.

Few memorials of their private history now re-
main ; their letters, at least those which are pre-
served, related chiefly to public affairs. Some facts
however come to us by tradition, and some insight
may be gained by a knowledge of individual
members.

There was at Watertown as in all public as-
semblies a great variety of character. The puri-
tan party was strongly represented. There were
many who had a holy horrour of all the amusements
of a profane world, and believed or affected to
believe, that the sins of the country had brought
upon it the awful visitations, under which it was
suffering. They were desirous of placing them-
selves in strong contrast with the more free con-

128 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

duct of the tories and British officers. These
latter were enacting, in Faneuil Hall, a " profane
play," profane oily because all theatrical enter-
tainments were so considered, on the evening pre-
vious to the battle of Bunker Hill. It was subject
of astonishment and grief too among many of the
members at Watertown, that men who held their
lives in their hands, should pass with unthinking
levity from the play house to the field, and thence
" unanointed, unannealed" to their great account.

The community did not follow out all the rigid
sentiments of this party. While on many minds
the existing condition of affairs was a very pow-
erful and operating cause for religious seriousness,
there was generated, in the unsettled state of things,
motives and allurements for some relaxation of
moral habits. Such however was the strong moral
sentiment, which supplied the place of judicial au-
thority now entirely prostrate, that great crimes
were wholly unknown, and the smaller of unfre-
quent occurrence.

Among the members of the provincial con-
gress, suspicion of levity in matters of religion,
and every thing was then supposed to have some
connexion with this subject, would have been
fatal to an individual's influence. There were
however many members in that assembly who
had been accustomed to the elegancies and re-
finement of polished society. The king's govern-
ment in Massachusetts had not indeed been able

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERUY. 129

to borrow the splendour of a court, but it had in
some degree copied its etiquette and politeness,
and possibly its less defensible manners. Distinc-
tions existed in society not precisely consistent
with republican equality, and a style of address
and deportment distinguished those who consider-
ed themselves in the upper circle, which was visi-
ble long after the revolution had swept away all
other relics of the royal government. This early
habit induced some of the patriots at Watertown
to indulge in a little more regard to dress than
suited the economy of the stricter puritans, in a
love for better horses, in a social party at dinner,
or evening, in an attendance on balls and dancing
parties, and in a fondness for female society of re-
spectability and reputation.

It is not believed that what at this period would
be considered dissipation either fashionable or vul-
gar, was chargeable on any of the members of the
provincial congress, but there were young men
among their most confidential leaders who incurred
the reproof of their stricter brethren by not suffi-
ciently marking a contrast between the monarchi-
cal and patriotic party.

Most men have their besetting sins. It might
have been in vain that the necessity of reasonable
relaxation was pleaded as an excuse for supposed
frivolity. The examples of eminent men, their
friends too, on the other side the Atlantic would
have been urged as an excuse equally ineffectual,
130 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

when ample retaliation was taken by the offending
members in finding some of the sternest of the
irritated moralists drinking tea, and endeavouring
to disguise this high crime and misdemeanour by
having it made in a coffee pot ! This indulgence
of taste at the expense of patriotism, this worse
than bacchanalian intemperance prevented for a
time any remarks on the " court imitations" of the
backsliding brethren.

The members of the provincial congress lived in
the families of the inhabitants of Watertown, and
held their daily sessions in the meeting house on
the plain. The congress opened early and ad-
journed for an hour to give the members time to
dine at one o'clock. Two sessions were usually
held every day, and committees were often en-
gaged till midnight. The time, which could be
caught from such fatiguing duty without neglect-
ing it, might well be devoted to rational diversion.
A gentleman, who paid any attention to his toilet,
would have his hair combed out, as is represented
in our frontispiece, powdered and tied in a long
queue, a plated white stock, a shirt ruffled at the
bosom and over the hands, and fastened at the
wrist with gold sleeve buttons, a peach bloom coat
and white buttons, lined with white silk, and stand-
ing off at the skirts with buckram, a figured silk
vest divided at the bottom, so that the pockets ex-
tended on the thighs, black silk small clothes with
large gold or silver knee buckles, white cotton or

LIFE OF ELRRIDGE GERRY. 131

silk, stockings, large shoes with short quarters and
buckles to match. This dress sketched from the
wardrobe of a member, was not peculiarly appro-
priate to occasions of ceremony, but assumed with
more or less exactness by the fashionable gentle-
men of the day.

The full bottomed wig, the red roquelot, and the
gold headed cane, which are seen in some of our
ancient pictures, belonged to an earlier period, and
were at that time the appropriate habiliments of
persons distinguished for their age and wealth.
It is not many years since some examples of this
antiquated fashion were recognised in venerable
men, who belonged to those interesting times, and
seemed to connect a past generation with the pre-
sent. They have now it is believed ceased from
any connexion with society, if indeed any of them
still have a being on the earth.

At the period referred to great deference was
paid to years, more to family and not less to for-
tune. Ancient habits could not at once be changed,
and the forms of a society, which had been regu-
lated by provincial imitation of English manners,
continued to prevail. It was the effect of the re-
volution to break down these artificial distinctions,
and to show that a man's influence should not be
in proportion to family or wealth, but to the cha-
racter of his mind artd the motives of his conduct.
The leaders of the revolution rose upon the ruins
of anti-republican prejudices, and settled public

132 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

opinion in a more rational style, but they never
attempted like the revolutionists of later times to
confound all distinctions of society. While the
equality of personal and political rights was a sa-
cred article of their creed, they did not forget that
a community by the immutable principles of its
constitution must consist of the poor as well as the
rich, of the ignorant as well as the educated, and
of labouring classes as well as classes of compara-
tive leisure. They did not forget that different
opportunities and situations would produce differ-
ent results on the manners as well as the mind.
Allowing the state of society to which they had
been accustomed, and the principles for which
they were contending, to operate with their proper
weight, the leaders of the revolution, whether in
the cabinet or the field, generally acquired a dig-
nity and at the same time a courtesy of deport-
ment, which in the memory of those who have
been acquainted with their character will entitle
them to be received as the model of an American
gentleman.

It has been remarked that the courts of justice
were closed, and it is wonderful how society could
be kept together when laws lost their sanction.
But in the intercourse of the citizens peace and
good order generally prevailed. The collecting of
men in camp, and the removing of young men es-
pecially from the restraints of the neighbourhood
in which they were known, could not be favoura-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 133

ble to very exact morality. The power of the
military arm was in itself an unpopular one. In-
deed it had hardly strength enough to preserve the
necessary discipline of the army, and would not
readily exert itself when not required by military
duty. When occasions presented, the members of
the provincial congress exercised a kind of civil
authority by something like common consent, more
indeed because it was right that authority should
be exerted than because they had any right to
exert it. They proceeded individually or by two
or three to hear, decide and punish in a very sum-
mary way ; and by this interference, and more
perhaps by a common opinion that they could inter-
fere, those minor irregularities which appear in
the best ordered government, and are never en-
tirely absent from the vicinity of a camp, were
in a good degree suppressed.

134 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER XI.

Elected to the Continental Congress Constitution and Charac-
ter of that Assembly.

On 9th February, 177G, Mr. Gerry, having been
previously elected a delegate from Massachusetts
to the continental congress, then in session at Phi-
ladelphia, took his seat in that illustrious assem-

%.

The importance of the situation in the opinion
of his fellow-citizens of Massachusetts was not
less than it has since become in the estimation of
the world, and may be determined by the public
character of those, on whom it had before been
conferred.

" The recovery and establishment of our just
rights and liberties, civil and religious, and the
restoration of union and harmony between Great
Britain and America," claimed the exertion of
the purest patriotism and the most incorruptible
integrity, and called into exercise all the wisdom
and firmness of the most eminent and able of our
citizens. Liberty, property and life, character
and fame, every thing that was dear to men in
civil society were at hazard in the bold experiment
of resistance, and safety was expected only in the
councils of the most virtuous and intelligent and

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. IS5

honourable minds. It became necessary to call
out the exertions of the people not merely by ex-
hibiting the great objects for which they were con-
tending, but the invaluable and imposing nature
of the pledges which had been given for success.
Hence all who were endeared to the affections of
the community by their public or private virtues,
they whose character or fortune or lives were pre-
eminently hazarded in the struggle, were deputed
to the dangerous duty of directing and maintaining
measures, on which the ultimate success of the
conflict would necessarily depend.

Accordingly the delegation to the first congress,
in 1774, combined men highest in the esteem and
confidence of their fellow-citizens. Massachusetts
sent to that assembly Thomas Cushing, Samuel
Adams, Robert Treat Paine, James Bowdoin, and
John Adams, men whose weight of talent and
character was suited to the arduous and responsible
duties they were destined to perform. In 1775,
Mr. Bowdoin declined a re-election, and John
Hancock was appointed in his place. Mr. Cush-
ing retired at the end of the same year, and was
succeeded by Mr. Gerry.

The manner in which an office is sustained,
rather than the favour by which it is acquired, is
in general the criterion of character ; but in the
nearly unanimous appointment of Mr. Gerry, one
of the youngest members of the provincial con-
gress, with his proscribed and honourable col-

136 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

leagues to this distinguished station, which only
the most eminent could occupy, is an imperishable
record of his worth in the colony of Massachu-
setts. His whole time, indeed, had been devoted
to the public from the organization of the provin-
cial assembly. Measures of the highest import-
ance, taxing to the utmost the integrity, firmness,
and ability of the parties, had been the daily sub-
ject of discussion by men deeply interested in the
result. Selected through the province for their
talents and their zeal, and entering on their ap-
propriate duties with an honourable rivalship, all
the faculties of the mind, all the cmalities of the
heart by which honour and distinction may be
claimed, had full and free opportunity for exercise
in the assembly, of which, for three years, he had
been an assiduous member. His election to a
more extensive field of duty by such colleagues
after such trial, and for the great objects then
more distinctly in view, is a proof of the esteem
and respect, in which they who knew him best
were accustomed to hold him, and cannot but be
taken into consideration in those occurrences of
his subsequent life, where his firmness or ability
or the value of his public services have for politi-
cal and party purposes been made the subject of
discussion.

The continental congress, of which Mr. Gerry
now became a member, was the source and centre
of that power, which thenceforward conducted the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 137

American revolution. The anarchy usually at-
tending a change of government was prevented by
the early organization of provincial assemblies, but
confusion and collision among the assemblies or
the provinces were happily prevented by the exist-
ence of this dignified convention. The members
who composed it possessed the confidence and the
esteem of the people. Its moderation reconciled
the timid, its energy satisfied the bold, while the
wisdom, the public spirit and private virtue of its
collective character, secured to it an unbounded
popularity.* The orderly spirit of an educated
people lead them naturally to fall into senti-
ments and measures which had this respectable
sanction, and secured the colonies in the whole
course of their arduous conflict from the crimes of
rapacity, cruelty or violence, which, in other coun-
tries and under different councils, have tracked
the progress of revolution, and marked its various
vicissitudes with bloodshed and crime.

The government of the continental congress,
to which the patriot and the christian are under
equal obligations, was commenced at a period of
general distress, was continued by the excitement

* During the whole revolution, congress maintained its cha-
racter for strict veracity. Deception, even under defeat, made
no part of its policy. Whatever public declaration bore the
signature of the secretary, passed as unquestionable truth. The
name of Charles Thompson was, in matters of political history,
like the attestation of St. Paul on subjects of religious belief.

in

138 LIFE OF ELB1UDGE GERRY.

produced in the public mind, was matured amid
all the dangers and the outrages threatened or per-
petrated on their constituents and friends. It was
instituted as the champion of the country's free-
dom against the unnatural efforts of a vindictive
and tyrannical enemy ; it was exposed to all those
temptations which an unsettled state of things in-
variably present, to the allurements of a wild am-
bition, or the gratification of a stern revenge.
Had it been influenced by a love of power, it
might itself have encroached on public liberty ;
or, if seduced by cupidity of wealth, it might almost
without restriction have been the safe plunderer
of the public treasure ; or, if instigated by those
feelings which have marked the changes of power
in other countries with crime, it might easily
enough have satiated a ferocious spirit of revenge.
All the checks, which in later times are considered
so essential to good government, were removed,
except only a proud spirit of patriotism and a re-
spectful submission to public sentiment ; and by
the blessing of God these were all-powerful. To
all future time an American citizen may look with
a better spirit than that of military triumph on the
fair escutcheon of his country's fame ; and, if the
civic virtues by which more than by feats of arms a
nation becomes truly great, are in any respect
owing to the character of the government, he may
find the origin of that character in the continental
congress of the revolution.

LIFE OF FLBRIDGE GERRY. 139

It may be useful to enquire how this great and
controlling power was established.

The thirteen American colonies had, at the
commencement of the revolution, whatever pe-
riod may be assumed for that memorable epoch,
no common source of power except the British
crown. Separated into distinct colonial establish-
ments, the people every where had some right of
sending a delegation to provincial assemblies ;
but this right was derived from charters which
had at different times been granted by royal au-
thority. The internal affairs of each colony or
province were managed under the directions of
such charter, which provided for the assembling
of provincial legislatures, and for the due exer-
cise of an executive authority, by persons more
or less under the control of the crown. No
regularly established union existed among them ;
and whenever the authority of the mother coun-
try was removed, the whole power of govern-
ment necessarily devolved on the people of each
separate province, which thereby became, de facto,
an independent state.

It was early seen by the American patriots,
that a state of division would be a condition of
weakness ; that a controversy with the British
empire, difficult and arduous enough under any
circumstances, would be utterly desperate if con-
ducted by a single colony, or by all in succession,
and that an union of effort for the common object

140 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

was the only means which could make resistance
any thing but madness.

To establish a common power, which should
have a control over the continent, became obvi-
ously indispensable ; and it is to the glory of the
men of those days, not only that they so early
discerned the policy of this procedure, but that
they suffered no sectional or imaginary interest to
obstruct the execution of their plan. At the mo-
ment, however, when this great convention was
first projected, the extent of the influence it was
destined to exert could scarcely have been con-
ceived. Resistance by force of arms was no part
of the original design ; or if there were those
prophetic spirits that saw the coming storm in the
small cloud which was beginning to appear on the
horizon, they had not such distinct vision of future
time as to be themselves satisfied how best to es-
cape from the danger.

The first continental congress assembled in the
character of a committee for consultation. The
powers delegated to the members were limited to
the object which they were intended to accom-
plish.

The province of Massachusetts, which was the
very seat of the oppression and injustice of the
British ministry, naturally would feel more seri-
ously than even her neighbours, the importance of
measures for relief; yet the resolutions of this
province of 17th June 1774, declare "This house,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 141

having duly considered and being deeply affected
with the unhappy differences which have long
subsisted and are increasing between Great Brit-
ain and the American colonies, do resolve that a
meeting of committees from the several colonies
on this continent is highly expedient and neces-
sary, to consult upon the present state of the colo-
nies, and the miseries to which they are and must
be reduced by the operation of certain acts of
parliament respecting America, and to deliberate
and determine upon wise and proper measures to
be by them recommended to all the colonies, for
the recovery and establishment of their just rights
and liberties, civil and religious, and the restora-
tion of harmony between Great Britain and the
colonies, most ardently desired by all good men."

In Virginia, the meeting of delegates from the
different counties in the colony resolved that a
general congress of deputies assemble from all the
colonies, " to consider the most proper and effec-
tual method of so operating on the commercial
connexion of the colonies with the mother coun-
try, as to procure redress for the much injured
colony of Massachusetts Bay, to secure British
America from the ravages and ruin of arbitrary
taxes, and speedily to procure the return of that
harmony and union so beneficial to the whole
empire, and so ardently desired by all British
America."

The committee of correspondence of Connecti-

142 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

cut were instructed by the house of representa-
tives of that colony " to attend congress, to
consult and advise on proper measures for ad-
vancing the best good of the colonies ; and such
conferences from time to time to report to this
house."

In Pennsylvania, the delegates were directed
to meet the deputies of other colonies, to consult
upon the present unhappy state of the colonies,
and to form and adopt a plan for the purpose of
obtaining a redress of American grievances, and
ascertaining American rights.

The proceedings in other parts of the country,
by those organized bodies from which the dele-
gates to this first national assembly received their
appointment, were of the same moderate charac-
ter, and disclosed an intention limited to the ap-
pointment of committees of conference, who might
interchange their opinions on the alarming condi-
tion of the country, and devise such measures as
their wisdom should find expedient, to be after-
wards adopted by the colonies, and not by the
congress, for the protection of the public liberty.

Two considerations led to this guarded conduct.
First, the urgency of the occasion for a central
and common government was not realized by the
whole people. The public mind is always slow
in its perceptions, and always alarmed at the pro-
posal of a change. Until oppression was actually
grinding the people many among them would not

LIFE OF ELBRIDOE GERRY. 1 i.i

believe it was designed. The statesmen and
leaders of the day were a great way in advance
of the intelligence of their times. "They snuffed
danger in the coining breeze." They did not
wait for oppression. The rumour of an attempt
upon their liberties excited them. They traced
the six-penny tax upon tea, so insignificant in the
eyes of a financier, so tolerable in the resources of
their countrymen for taxation, to the principle,
destructive to freedom, in which it originated.
They were successful in extending very widely
their own sound doctrines, and bringing up the
minds of men to the standard of their policy.
But this was in the sphere of their own influence.
Others were beyond it who could not enter into
all their feelings. Such must be dealt with mild-
ly and moderately ; and the leaders of the revolu-
tion, with a prudence as rare as it was wise, first
enlightened the public mind, and then directed it.
But if the occasion had then demanded such a
power, the erecting of it over the several local
authorities devolving on the friends of freedom
in the several provinces, would have been a deli-
cate task. To the troubles of revolution and
war would have been added the contests and col-
lisions of sections or individuals for power, influ-
ence, or rights. These were to be avoided : and
again is seen the wisdom of those distinguished
men. The passions which grow up in all wars,
and are fiercest and wildest in civil commotion*

144 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

were kept down and controlled, and the easiest and
simplest measures were taken to avoid those dan-
gerous rocks upon which first private virtue and
then public happiness is wrecked. The power
which was to guide the revolution was made by
the revolution — grew as that grew, and strength-
ened as that advanced, and although it may be
lamented that there was not a more self existing
power to have directed operations for battle, yet
what was lost in the energy of war was balanced
in all probability by the additional security of in-
ternal peace.

The measures of the first continental congress
constituted as it was of the purest and noblest and
wisest of the American people, conformed to this
restricted authority.

They assembled at Philadelphia on 5th Sep-
tember 1774. They expressed their approbation
of the wisdom and fortitude, with which the late
unjust, cruel and oppressive acts of the British
parliament had been received in Massachusetts ;
they published addresses to the governour of that
colony, to the British colonies, to the people of
Great Britain, and to the inhabitants of Quebec,
in which, with an eloquence and a force never ex-
celled in the language in which they were written,
the rights of the colonists and the wrongs they
were suffering were depictured and explained.
They made a solemn declaration of their political
privileges, they advised as a mean of preserving

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERR\ . 145

them, that an agreement should be formed not to
import any article of British produce, and they re-
solved, what self preservation rendered indispen-
sable, that the seizing or attempting to seize any
person in America, in order to transport such per-
son beyond sea for the trial of offences committed
within the body of a county in America, being
against law, would justify and ought to meet with
resistance and reprisal ; but they adopted no
measure which implied power in themselves to
exercise government, and without giving to their
deliberations the form of legislative acts they
dissolved their assembly on 26th October fol-
lowing.

Great effects were produced by the influence of
this congress throughout the continent. The peo-
ple became satisfied that there was a common feel-
ing with regard to the points in dispute, and a
common interest in promoting and supporting
measures of resistance. The unwelcome neces-
sity of encountering British tyranny they were
assured would not rest with those onlv on whom
the lust of domination chiefly exerted itself. The
encouraging opinion strengthened into confidence
and certainty, that beyond the immediate operation
of ministerial exactions, men of fortune, of talents,
and of honour would meet the responsibility which
patriotism imposed.

A second continental congress assembled at
Philadelphia on 10th May 1775, and was con-
146 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GEItRY.

tinued with proper organization through all the
period of the revolution-war.

The members, who first assembled, appeared
under the authority of new elections. They were
deputed by colonial legislatures, where that was
practicable, and by assemblies which had supersed-
ed the legislature, or by the vote of the people, ac-
cording to the circumstances under which the local
power in the colonies was exercised.

In the commission given to the delegates, there
was a marked difference between the language
now used, and that of the former occasion. Mas-
sachusetts authorized her representatives " to
agree upon, direct and order such further measures
as should to them appear best calculated for the
recovery and establishment of American rights ;"
and with characteristic republican jealousy limited
their commission to the then current year. The
same phraseology was used in the commission to
the delegates from South Carolina, a coincidence
which is certainly the evidence of a previous con-
cert. Equivalent alterations enlarging the powers
of congress, are to be found in the resolutions of
several other colonies, all of which imply the
higher expectation formed of the duties assigned to
this assembly.

The general outline of the authority, thus given
to congress, is marked in the language of the
commission to the members, but by common con-
sent it was understood they were not merely to

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 1 17

deliberate, but to act; not to counsel others only,
but execute for themselves. The provincial legis-
latures retained their exclusive authority over
merely local concerns ; but the general affairs of
the continent, and especially its foreign relations,
devolved on the congress at Philadelphia ; and
without any specific arrangement this central pow -
er gradually marked out for its own circle of ope-
rations very much the same course, which became
afterwards better defined and established in the
constitution of the United States.

The continental congress assumed many of the
attributes, and exercised much of the power of sove-
reign authority. They raised an army and appoint-
ed the commander in chief and other subordinate
officers ; they equipped a navy ; they incurred debts
and pledged the nation for payment ; they severed
the ties which bound them to a foreign empire, and
assumed for their constituents " the separate and
equal station to which the laws of nature and of
nature's God entitled them ;" they formed alli-
ances ; they sent and received public ministers ;
they waged war and they concluded peace. They
did every thing appertaining to political power but
levy taxes. These great prerogatives were exer-
cised according to the expectation of the people,
with so much prudence and moderation, with
so much energy and firmness, with such wisdom,
integrity and honour, that the illustrious citizens
who composed the congress of the revolution have

148 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

inscribed their own imperishable glory on the
splendid temple they erected for the liberties of
their country.

It is probable the congress found itself urged by
irresistible circumstances to the exercise of greater
powers than were contemplated, when that assem-
bly was first proposed ; and doubts on their part,
and on the part of their constituents, as to the
precise limits of their authority, were among the
difficulties that surrounded them.

The subject early claimed their attention. Ar-
ticles of confederation better defining the powers
of congress, and regulating the duties of the states,
were submitted by congress to the several mem-
bers of the confederacy on the Lr)th November,
1777, and being ratified on 9th July following, be-
came the charter of government until the adoption
of the constitution of the United States.

The government, which began almost from ne-
cessity, was continued, matured and perfected in
many of its details, during the most embarrassing
period of the war. In many of the states too, the
old governments having expired, new ones were
formed, by the recommendation and with the sanc-
tion of congress, under the very cannon of the
enemy, and amid all the dangers of military ope-
ration. The people in these acts, which display
their orderly and intelligent character, share with
their leaders the glory of those interesting times.
Their readiness to throw off the shackles of the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 119

royal government can no longer be imputed to a
factious or radical spirit of insubordination, when
their earnestness is found to be as great and as
well directed to establish a government on the
principles of freedom, as to destroy that which
was founded on tyranny and oppression.

150 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER XII.

Member of the Committee of the Treasury State of the Finan-
ces Paper Money Loan Offices Lottery Foreign

Loans Regulating Acts.

Th^ reputation which Mr. Gerry had acquired
in his native province preceded his arrival at Phi-
ladelphia. He had scarcely taken his seat in the
continental congress, when he was placed on
important committees ; and on the 1 7th February
1776, was appointed with Mr. Duane, of New-
York, Mr. Nelson, of Virginia, Mr. Smith and Mr.
Willing, of Pennsylvania, to compose a standing
committee of five for superintending the treasury.
And it was u resolved that it be the business of
this committee to examine the accounts of the
treasurers, and from time to time to report to con-
gress the state of the treasury.

" To consider the ways and means for supplying
gold and silver for the support of the army in
Canada.

" To employ and instruct proper persons for
liquidating the public accounts, with the different
paymasters and commissaries in the continental
service ; and the conventions, committees of safety
and others, who have been or shall be intrusted
with the public money, and from time to time to
report the state of such accounts to congress.

LIFE OF ELB1UDGE GEltltY. 151

" To superintend the emission of bills of credit.

" To obtain from the different assemblies and

conventions of the united colonies, accounts of the

number of inhabitants in each colony according to

the resolution of congress on that subject."

This committee was from time to time enlarged,
as the accumulation of business rendered a more
numerous body necessary for its despatch ; but,
under the direction of congress, they had the
general control of the finances during the period of
the revolution-war, uniting most of the duties
now assigned to the treasury department of the
United States, and the committee of ways and
means in the house of representatives.

The finances were, however, from the very or-
ganization of government in the colonies in a
miserable condition. The continent found itself
engaged in actual hostility without preparation,
without funds, without arms, provisions, or muni-
tions of war. Their credit had not the foundation
of an established revenue. There was not, either
before or after the adoption of the confederation,
any power of taxation confided to the congress.
The resources of the nation were held by the
states ; and the treasury of congress could be sup-
plied only by the contribution of the states accord-
ing to the ratio of their means, or by the issue of
paper money, or by loans.

The obvious and in fact the only mode by
which the immediate claims for money could be

152 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

answered, was by the issue of a paper currency on
the faith of the people. Congress unhesitatingly
availed themselves of this facility, and on 22d
June 1775, directed an emission of " two millions
of Spanish dollars in bills of credit for the defence
of America." This sum was in July increased
to three millions. Two persons were appointed,
as joint treasurers to take charge of the fund ;
and it was recommended to each colony " to pro-
vide ways and means to sink its proportion of the
bills ordered to be emitted by this congress, in
such manner as may be most effectual and best
adapted to the condition, circumstances and equal
mode of levying taxes in such colony. And it
was further resolved, that the proportion or quota
of each colony be determined according to the
number of inhabitants of all ages, including ne-
groes and mulattoes in each colony."

The quotas of each colony were to be paid by
four annual instalments, either by returning the
continental paper which they were to receive for
taxes, or by a remission to the continental trea-
surers of silver and gold. The paper, when re-
turned to the treasurers, was to be burned under
the eye of a committee of congress if in session,
or in case of adjournment, of a committee appoint-
ed by the assembly or convention of the province
of Pennsylvania ; but it was ordered that " the
treasurers, whenever they have silver and gold in
their hands for the redemption of continental bills,

LIFE OF ELBUIDGE GERRY. 153

shall advertise the same, signifying that they are
ready to give silver or gold for such bills to all per-
sons requiring it in exchange."

This was the first financial effort of the thirteen
colonies. Although an army was then raised and
hostilities had commenced, the smallness of the
sum actually issued, and the want of preparation
for additional funds, show the state of feeling as
to the probably short duration of hostilities.

Unfortunate as was the result of this experiment
to the holders of the bills, it answered for the time
the calls of the country ; and it was not attempted
without being accompanied by every exertion
which could be made to ensure the credit of the
paper. A mode for redeeming it was pointed out.
The amount, which each colony ought to provide
for, was ascertained ; and as all the sources of
revenue by direct and indirect taxation remained
with the several colonies, congress recommended
that arrangements should be made for future
payment, which if they had been sufficiently re-
garded, would gradually but certainly have re-
deemed it without loss. The paper at first kept
its original value, and the continental treasurers
were able to raise a considerable amount in specie,
as they were required to do by congress, to supply
the forces which were destined against Canada.

But the sum thus emitted was shortly exhaust-
ed. Another emission of three millions in bills of
credit was directed in the subsequent November,
154 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

and four millions followed in February 1776. In
the following May, congress " resolved that five
millions of dollars be emitted in bills of credit, in
part of the ten millions voted for the service of
the current year, and that the thirteen united
colonies be pledged for the redemption of said five
millions of dollars, at such periods and in such
manner and proportions as congress should here-
after direct and appoint."

The balance of the ten millions was speedily
required ; thus, in the first year of the war, con-
gress found itself struggling with a debt of nineteen
millions of dollars, without any compulsory power
to provide for its payment, and with no means to
preserve for it any appearance of credit but the
feeble and disregarded right to recommend to the
colonies to provide means for its redemption.

Bills of credit, without any fund for their pay-
ment or any right of taxation to redeem them, ac-
cumulating as they did by the clamorous demands
of the community for something as the evidence of
a debt, could not fail to depreciate ; and it is less
now to be wondered, that they should soon have
become of so little value, as that congress should
have been able with such feeble means to meet in
any way the importunity of their creditors.

It was assigned to the committee which has
been mentioned to issue, direct and maintain as
far as possible this miserable representation of
public wealth.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 155

To support the credit of the colonies by con-
trolling their expenditure was impossible, for they
were engaged in a war which involved every thing
that was dear to them, and had determined at any
expense or sacrifice to command success. To
provide funds for the payment either of principal
or interest was beyond their power, for this attri-
bute of sovereignty was reserved for the states.
Their duty was limited, therefore, to the providing
of palliatives for the evils, and circumscribing in
as narrow bounds as was possible, the distress and
ruin which inevitably must arise from a fluctuating
and depreciating currency.

The principal duty, which in this respect de-
volved on the committee, was the examination of
accounts in the vast variety of concerns to which
the state of the nation required attention. Civil
and military, foreign and domestic, large and small,
whatever accounts indeed were presented for pay-
ment were submitted to the examination of the
committee of the treasury, and the immense amount
of labour daily performed by them is attested on
almost every page of the journals of congress.

But their task was not confined to this arduous
and useful labour. They were expected to devise
and report such measures, as with the feeble
means limited to congress, would tend to preserve
the credit of the country.

One of the first measures of this kind was the
establishment of continental loan offices. In Oc-

156 LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY.

tober 1776, congress resolved on the report of the
committee for superintending the treasury, that
five millions of dollars be borrowed for the use of
the United States, at an interest of four per cent.
That the faith of the United States be pledged for
principal and interest ; that certificates be issued
for the sums loaned. That a loan office be estab-
lished in each state, and a commissioner appointed
by the said states respectively to superintend such
office ; that said commissioners deliver certificates
of all such sums of money as shall be brought into
their offices, settling with the continental treasurer
once a month ; and that they answer the draughts
of the treasurer for any amount in their hands.

A lottery was also recommended and ordered,
and foreign loans were negotiated, which though
not obtained as early or to the extent desired by
congress, were a very agreeable relief to the in-
convenience and distress produced by the uncer-
tain condition of its paper currency.

These measures judiciously and seasonably re-
commended by the committee of the treasury,
were not the only efforts made by them to give
value to their emissions of paper, without the only
sure foundation on which its character could be
supported. It had been declared with truth, that
" the resources of the country were great, and
that they had not been developed ;" but these
great resources were not within the reach of the
arm of congress, whose recommendation to the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 157

states, though heard respectfully, was oftentimes
slowly obeyed, or postponed and neglected. Mea-
sures might therefore be advised or adopted, which
a more established and a better organized govern-
ment would not have countenanced, and which do
not conform to the present improved ideas of po-
litical economy. A direct and moderate excise,
a tax on real estate, a capitation tax, payable in
personal services by commutation, and a duty on
imported goods, would have been a far more equal
and less distressing mode of meeting the burthens
of the war. These burthens must be borne by
the people. They are necessarily incident to a
state of hostility, and their weight never decreases
by delay. A depreciating paper is attended by
certain evil, which falls very unequally, and gen-
erally most injures those who are least able to sus-
tain the loss. Taxes, however burthensome, may
be limited to the exigency of the case, and be al-
ways assessed on such equal principles as to make
their pressure small on the weak, and proportion-
ally heavier on the strong.

It may therefore strike us with surprise, that
when the great sinews of war were relaxed and
unstrung, when the source of public credit was
drying up, and the life of the national cause
was endangered by want of the aliment which
alone could preserve it, an effort was not made by
the patriots of the day to possess for their country
the only efficient remedy, by which its distress

158 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

might be relieved. No want of intelligence to
discern what this remedy was, or how certainly
it would produce its effect, can be charged on that
illustrious assembly, and their hesitation is the
evidence of that prudent and honourable regard to
the will of the people, which had retained this
power to the states respectively ; congress warring
against despotism, could not with consistency be
itself an example of an usurpation of authority.
All the power they had, was unceasingly exercised
in recommending, in urging, in supplicating the
states "to raise by taxation in the course of the
current year, such sums as in their opinion the
situation of their inhabitants rendered proper,"
and to pass resolutions " that they would make
provision for drawing in and sinking their respec-
tive quotas of the bills emitted by congress at the
several periods fixed or to be fixed for that pur-
pose."

Measures of more doubtful utility were adopted.
The depreciation of the continental paper was as-
cribed to the pernicious artifices of the enemies of
American liberty. It was resolved that the conti-
nental bills ought to pass current at their nominal
value, and that whosoever made any discrimination
between them and gold and silver in purchase, sale
or exchange, should be deemed an enemy of these
United States, and forfeit the value of the property
thus contracted for ; and it was recommended that
other penalties be inflicted on offenders, adequate

LIFE OF ELB1UDGE GERfiY. 159

to the prevention of these pernicious practices. It
was recommended also that the states make them
a legal tender in the payment of public and private
debts : — They further advised a temporary regula-
tion of prices by the legislatures of the states, of
all articles of provision and other commodities for
the supply of the army ; and they proposed an ar-
rangement by which " the price of labour, manu-
factures, internal produce and commodities im-
ported from foreign parts, (military stores except-
ed) and the charges of innholders should be fixed
by law."

These dangerous and empirical experiments
were of short duration, and it cannot now be sur-
prising that they increased the inveteracy of the
disease they were intended to cure.

A rapid and alarming depreciation of continental
paper necessarily followed. It added a serious
evil to the dark catalogue of misfortunes which
pressed almost to ruin the struggling cause of
American liberty, and required, what alone could
support the efforts of the community, that patriot-
ism should pay the draughts, which the finances of
the country were unable to preserve from dis-
honour.

The correspondence of the day shows that the
leading patriots were beginning to look with firm-
ness on the only light, which could guide them
through the perplexities of their path.

160 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

MAJOR HAWLEY* TO MR. GERRY.

Watkrtown, Feb. 18, 1776.

Dear Sir,
I hope you will forgive me if I herein appear
indelicate, by attempting to inculcate some things
which I hinted to you in the minutes which you
Was pleased to accept of me as you was setting
out on your journey to congress. But if you
knew the infinite weight they are on my mind
you would not blame me, whether they impressed
your mind in like manner or not. One was, that
the most seasonable and effectual care should be
taken that a sufficient number of the best of troops
should be seasonably marched into Canada, and
thorough provision made for their subsistence,
pay and clothing, full supplies of artillery, arms
and ammunition, that they be sure to repel and
overcome all the efforts of the enemy in that
quarter the approaching season. Depend on it
that the efforts of the enemy there and at New-
York the next season will be the greatest and
the earliest which they can possibly make. In
the year 1760, I am certain that ships arrived at

* Major Joseph Hawley was a member of the provincial con-
gress at Watertown. His character is admirably sketched by
Mr. Tudor, in his interesting biography of James Otis. At the
date of these letters, he held the first rank in the councils of the
province.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 161

Quebec from England some time in April) and I
think as early as the middle of April, if not earli-
er. If they have any judgment or policy in Eng-
land, their land forces for the reduction of Ameri-
ca will be chiefly employed by the way of Que-
bec and New- York ; diversions may be given in
other parts, but their main strength will be des-
tined thither. I have no doubt but you are by
this time fully sensible that the sharpest eye must
be unremittedly kept on the people of New-York ;
their manoeuvres and tergiversations exceed the
depths of satan. But I will not school you any
longer on this head.

I beg leave to let you know that I have read
the pamphlet entitled " Common Sense, address-
ed to the inhabitants of America," and that every
sentiment has sunk into my well prepared heart :
in short, you knew that my heart before was like
good ground well prepared for good seed ; and
without an American independent supreme gov-
ernment and constitution, wisely devised and de-
signed, well established and settled, we shall al-
ways be but a rope of sand ; but that well done,
invincible. I need not repeat what 1 said to you
of the worthlessness and futility of all paper cur-
rency without such a general, well established
and Independent government.

Your field of business is immense, and abso-
lutely boundless ; but industry, courage, applica-
tion and perseverance will surmount every thing :
162 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

some relaxation and exercise is absolutely neces-
sary, to maintain health and spirit ; but sloth and
dissipation, and turning off business to others, and
procrastination, if they gain any admission, will
be our infallible ruin. I know you will not in-
dulge to them, and I hope none others of your
number. Solomon never uttered a truer maxim
than when he said " Confidence in an unfaithful
man in time of trouble is like a broken tooth, and
a foot out of joint."

Two things I beg leave to hint : the one is,
that it seems to us here that when congress, by
their late resolve, ordered an appeal from our admi-
ralty courts to their honourable body, they did not
well consider how dissonant such a mode of trial
is from the genius of the times ; to wit, by jury ;
nor how much it is open to the exception which
was made to the stamp act, of its exposing and
making one of the parties liable to be carried for
a. trial to any remote quarter or part of the conti-
nent, at the will of a crown officer. Would it not
have been more expedient and constitutional to
have ordered the appeal to have been to the supe-
riour court of the colony in which the first trial
was had. Besides, it seems to bear hard on the
maxim " that the legislative and executive ought
always to be distinct and diverse,"

Secondly, I hope, sir, you will by no means
forget to endeavour that there be the most per-
emptory and absolute order and injunction on all

IJFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 163

the generals and ofiicers of the American army,
that quartern for the army or any part of them,
shall in no case be impressed, but by the inter-
vention of a civil magistrate, or direction of the
legislature of the colony. They have again (I
suppose through the resentment and pique of Park,
the assistant quarter-master) quartered a compa-
ny on Major Thompson, against his will. Our
assembly is so much on the wing, and the active
members so generally gone, that it is impossible
to make any proper remonstrance thereof to the
general.

It is not easy to imagine what a handle such
conduct as this gives to the tories, and how much
they rejoice to be able to take such exceptions ;
besides, it is downright and intolerably wrong.
It is much more necessary that congress should
make some express order and regulation for their
forces in every part, touching their behaviour in
this particular ; because, you know that the colo-
nies in general, and this in particular, are in the
hands and power of the army, by reason of the
militia being in a great degree stripped of their
arms and ammunition for the sake of furnishing
the army.

I suggest one thing more, and I have done ; to
wit : I hope that the next period or term for
which the continental troops will be enlisted will
be three, or at least two years : the disadvantages
and risk of their being engaged and holden for

164 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

short terms, even for but one whole year, are
many ; at the same time they never will, nor can
I say that I desire that they should engage for
an indefinite time ; but I believe they will, after a
little while, be willing to engage for two or three
years.

My letter is unconnected. I enter matters as
they occur, without studying coherence : if you
think them of any value, you have full leave to
communicate to your brethren of this colony.

I am, sir,

With great and most sincere respect,
Your obedient humble servant,

Joseph Hawley.

Mr Gerry.

MAJOR HAWLEY TO MR. GERRY.

Feb. 20. 1776.

Pray sir, will it not be extremely difficult for
us to hold on with our defence and support of all
our inhabitants without trade ? Will people, who
have been bred and accustomed to trade till they
have arrived to men's and women's estate, ever
get into any other business ? Be sure they never
will be dexterous at any other, nor contented ;
nay, they will be a weight on the community, and
a very heavy one too. But if we resolve on
independence, what will hinder but that we may

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GURRY. l(j.r>

instantly commence a trade, not onl\ with Hol-
land, Fiance and Spain, but with all the world,
as the government of the new independent state
shall permit r Then we shall have done with the
unmanageable plans and chimeras of nonimporta-
tion agreements, which, with nonconsumption
agreements, never were and never will be kept,
and tend inexpressibly to debauch and wickedize
a people, by means of the irresistible temptation,
which trading people will always be under to vio-
late the general agreements, not only for the sake
of profits, but really for any reputable subsistence ;
whereas, the instant you resolve on independence,
and give leave to trade, your trading people will
immediately fly to it, whatever risks and hazards
there may be of losing ; and indeed the greatest
part will escape.

Pray consider this matter with regard to Cana-
da and the Dutch of New-York : will they ever
join with us heartily, who in order to it must
sacrifice their trade, to which they are so much
addicted, and whereby they have always made
good profits, and expose themselves to wTant and
beggary? whereas, the moment that we resolve on
independence, trade will be free for them ; for the
one to France and the other to Holland, to which
they always inclined, and w7ould heretofore go at
almost as great risks as they will then at first run;
then we shall have done with our impracticable
associations for nonconsumption, the source of in-

166 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

finite feuds and animosity. Independence, in
short, is the only way to union and harmony ; to
vigour and despatch in business, our eye will be
single, and our whole body full of light ; any thing
short of it will, as appears to me, be our de-
struction, infallible destruction, and that speedily.
Amen.

Joseph Hawley.
Mr. Gerry.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 167

CHAPTER XIII.

First project of Independence Correspondence with Major Haw-
ley With General Warren Impediments in the icay of In-
dependence Independence declared.

The financial difficulties in which the colonies
were placed, and the formidable force which was
preparing for their overthrow, did not deter influ-
ential men from proposing measures of a bold and
decisive character.

The question of independence had been seri-
ously, though not very publicly discussed in Mas-
sachusetts. It was with great regret that many,
even of the leading men in the councils of that
colony had admitted that it would be necessary to
fight, but they were not slow in perceiving that
the battle, when begun, would end in the inde-
pendence or the ruin of their country.

This important proposition was debated again
and again in the confidential intercourse of the
prominent members of the congress at Watertown,
long before the object was openly avowed. Its
hazards and its benefits were weighed and com-
pared, and a determination formed to prepare the
minds of the people for the necessity and advan-
tage of this great and momentous change in their
political condition.

168 LIFE OF ELB1UDGE GERRY.

The organization of a military and naval force,
the appointment of a commander in chief and sub-
ordinate officers, and the conducting of open hos-
tility in the face of an avowed enemy, no longer
rendered very sensible those nice distinctions,
which had been attempted to reconcile resistance
to ministers with allegiance to the throne. It be-
came necessary for the Americans to admit that
resistance was rebellion, or to assume the charac-
ter of an independent nation, and claim the rights
of sovereignty and self government.

The necessity of the alternative did not dimin-
ish the danger of the choice. It could not be con-
cealed, nor was it attempted to be concealed by
the patriots of 1776, that the act, which was re-
quired by their country, might be fatal to them-
selves. They could not but feel that while, on
one hand, the establishing of a new nation would
ensure them imperishable glory, the result of an
abortive attempt to sever the connexion of the
colonies with the mother country would ruin their
constituents, and subject themselves to the dis-
grace and the penalty of treason.

But personal considerations had little weight
with the architects of the American republic.
The glory or the shame, the reward or the punish-
ment, which by a change of condition might enno-
ble or destroy them, neither accelerated or retarded
the momentous event. Its consequence to the
nation, and not the personal gratification of the

LIFE OF ELRRIDGE GERRY. 169

agents, was the great consideration by which it
was effected. The project of independence was
neither begun with indecent haste, nor delayed by
unreasonable apprehension. It was discussed with
the coolness and deliberation, which became the
dignity of an assembly selected for its wisdom
from three millions of people, and which felt the
responsibility of a measure that would fix their
fate and their children's forever.

A scheme, whose operation was overshadowed
in the uncertainty of future time, was viewed in
different perspective by the individuals and the
colonies whose interest it would decide. Men of
capacious and extensive range of thought early
saw the results which resistance would accom-
plish ; those who were bold and adventurous, or
constitutionally of an ardent and sanguine temper,
looked on the anticipated consequences, if not
with satisfaction always, yet certainly without
alarm. A more timid and cautious class of states-
men dreaded what they called the dangerous pre-
cipitancy of their colleagues, and suffered doubts
and fears to triumph over hope. These were
coasting-craft navigators, fearful of adventuring
out of sight of land, making always for the shore,
and seeking some port of shelter from the first
murmurings of the storm. They would engage in
no expedition, whatever might be its promise, un-
less preparation was first made for successful retreat.
The congress of the colonies in 1776 consisted
170 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

of these two classes of political characters. The
high and irreproachable patriotism of all its mem-
bers is entitled to the most honourable attestation ;
but in boldness of purpose, in grand and lofty con-
ception of the destinies of the people, in a know-
ledge of the true nature of the crisis at which they
had arrived, in the intelligence which could realize
that timid or temporary measures were alike haz-
ardous and futile, and that the nation was to be
preserved only by great and resistless exertions,
in the qualifications, finally, by which a statesman
proves his competency to the high duties of the
station, the congress at Philadelphia was distin-
guished by all the variety of mind that could be
collected in any deliberative assembly.

The delegates from Massachusetts, by the cir-
cumstances in which that colony was placed, had
been early called to a consideration of the great
argument by which their rights were support-
ed, and to a consideration of ulterior measures,
when reason and argument should no longer be of
any avail. They had been selected from that
school, in which the lessons of liberty were first
taught, for their political forethought, intelligence
and decision, and the point at which they had now
arrived had not come upon them by surprise.
The same elevated sentiments animated the ar-
dent statesmen of the south. At a distance from
immediate danger, they had watched calmly and
dispassionately the movement of royal power, and
thrown themselves into the controversy not merely

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 171

with the gallantry of a chivalrous spirit or the feel-
ings of a generous sympathy, but by the dictates of
a prudent and rational policy that foresaw the ruin
of the whole in the tyrannical sacrifice of a part.

Mr. Gerry, naturally ardent and determined,
was among the first to view with a steady eye the
arduous duties which his country required him to
perform. From his associated patriots in the Mas-
sachusetts legislature he had learned the sound
doctrines of practical liberty ; he had traced them
in their consequences to the eventual separation of
the colonies from the authority of their parent state,
and he was not of an age or temperament that
could be easily discouraged in the attainment of a
great object by the dangers or difficulties of the
pursuit. His own resolution was very early form-
ed, and his only solicitude seemed to be that a
strong impression should be made on the minds of
the people.

MR. GERRY TO JAMES WARREN* PRESIDENT OF
THE PROVINCIAL CONGRESS AT WATERTOWN.

Philadelphia, March 26, 1776.

My Dear Sir,
Two days ago the agreeable news of the evac-
uation of Boston reached this place, on which give

* Major General James Warren, of the militia of Massa-
chusetts, a descendant from one of the first settlers of Plymouth,

172 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

me leave to congratulate you. What an occur-
rence is this to be known in Europe ? How are
parliamentary pretensions to be reconciled ? Eight
or ten thousand British troops, it has been said,

was born in that town in 1726. He was educated at Harvard
College, and graduated in 1745, At an early period he was
elected a member of the general court of Massachusetts, and
soon distinguished himself among the popular leaders as one of
the most inflexible advocates of the colony cause.

The first proposal of forming committees of correspondence
has been ascribed to him.

He succeeded Di\ Warren as president of the provincial con-
gress, and in that situation as well as in the speaker's chair of
the house of representatives, which he subsequently filled, ac-
quired much reputation for the dignity of his deportment. His
uncompromising attachment to principle gave to his manners an
appearance of austerity especially in official station, while in
truth he was animated by great benevolence of heart, and per-
formed all the duties of a kind neighbour and an affectionate
friend.

In all the divisions of political party during his long and valu-
able life, General Warren and Mr. Gerry were invariably on the
same side. It was their fortune to receive together the plaudits
of the people, when the cause they espoused happened to be
popular, and to suffer together the pitiless peltings of the storm,
when the path of duty diverged in their opinion from the road
on which the multitude were desirous of travelling.

General Warren was offered several situations of high dignity
which he declined accepting, among them was the office of
lieutenant governour of the state and judge of the supreme court.
During the first part of the war of independence he was pay-
master-general of the American army. Under the present con-
stitution he served as a member of the executive council. In
1808 he presided over the electoral college of Massachusetts.
He died at the advanced age of eighty-two years, entitled to the
rare eulogy " that amid all his public occupations he never ne-
glected the more humble duties of domestic life, or the more ex-
alted claims of religion."

LIFE OF ELHRIDGE GERRY. 173

are sufficient to overrun America, and yet thai
number of their veterans, posted in Boston, a
peninsula fortified by nature, defended by works
the product of two years' industry, surrounded by
navigable waters, supported by ships of war and
commanded by their best generals, are driven off
by about one-thirtieth of the power of America.

Surely the invincible veterans laboured under
some great disadvantage from want of provisions
or military stores, which the Americans were
amply provided with ! Directly the reverse. They
had provisions enough, ammunition, muskets and
accoutrements for every man, and a piece of ord-
nance for every fifteen, while the Americans were
almost destitute of all these, and after twelve
months' collection had only a sufficiency of powder
to tune their cannon for six or eight days. I am
at a loss to know how Great Britain will reconcile
all this to her military glory. Her conquests in
America I am certain will never do it. Congress
have voted thanks to the general and all the offi-
cers and soldiers of the army, and ordered a medal
of ffold with a suitable device to be presented to
the former. I hope however that this success will
not abate your exertions to obtain by your own
manufactures sufficient supplies of military articles,
for on these and the discipline of your militia de-
pends your liberty.

You are desirous of knowing what capital mea-
sures are proposed in congress. I refer you to

174 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

colonel Orne for what is done concerning privateer-
ing, and I hope soon that all your ports will be
open and a free trade be allowed with all nations.
This will not in itself satisfy you, and / hope noth-
ing will, short of a determination of America to hold
her rank in the creation, and give law to herself. I
doubt not this will soon take place, and am sure
New-England will not be satisfied with less, since
not only the government but the people of Great
Britain are corrupt and destitute of public virtue.

I sincerely wish you would originate instruc-
tions, expressed with decency and firmness — your
own style — and give your sentiments as a court in
favour of independency. I am certain it would
turn many doubtful minds, and produce a reversal
of the contrary instructions adopted by some as-
semblies. Some timid minds are terrified at the
word independence. If you think caution in this
respect good policy, change the name.

America has gone such lengths she cannot re-
cede, and I am convinced that a few weeks or
months at furthest will convince her of the fact,
but the fruit must have time to ripen in some of
the other colonies ; in New-England, the hot-bed
of sedition, as North has impudently called Boston,
it has already come to maturity. Would it not be
good policy for the New-England governments to
think of the matter, and adopt similar measures.
Perhaps a circular letter and the publication of
your instructions would accomplish much. Is it

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 175

not curious that the British ministry should know
so little of our feelings or character that after
seizing our property, burning our towns and de-
stroying their inhabitants, they should make an act
to interdict our trade, and suppose that towns,
counties and colonies will bury in oblivion all
former abuses, and subscribe themselves slaves in
order to be rescued from the severities of this
commercial tyranny ? This is an instance of the
wisdom and policy of the British ministry ! Have
they not yet ascertained that we know our rights,
or at least that we think we know them ? Have
they not learned that we can defend them too ?

I remain your friend,

E. Gerry.

The language of confidence and encouragement
contained in the foregoing letter was reciprocated
from Massachusetts.

MR. HAWLEY TO MR. GERRY.

Watertown, May 1, 1776.

My Dear Sir,

The tories dread a declaration of independency

and a course of conduct on that plan more than

death. They console themselves with a belief

that the southern colonies will not accede to it.

176 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

My hand and heart is full of it. There will be no
abiding union without it. When the colonies come
to be pressed with taxes they will divide and crum-
ble to pieces. Will a government stand on re-
commendations ? It is idle to suppose so. Will
Canada ever join us without independence and
government? They will not. Can we subsist,
and support our trading people without trade ? It
appears more and more every day in the country
and the army that we cannot. Nay, without a
real continental government our army will overrun
us, and people will by and by, sooner than you
may be aware of, call for their old constitutions,
and as they did in England after Cromwell's death,
call in Charles the second. For God's sake let
there be a full revolution, or all has been done in
vain. Independency and a well planned conti-
nental government will save us. God bless you.
Amen and amen. J. H.

In another letter of the same writer on 1 5th
May, is the following passage : —

I want to comment largely on independency,
but have not time. Suffice it to say, in answer
to some of our people's objections, who ever
imagined it an objection to a man's emancipating
from the care and government of his father at the
age of twenty-one years, that he could not set up

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GEHRY. 177

for himself with so large an estate as his father's,
or a house so spacious as the one he was about to
leave ? Or who ever supposed the son could not
raise and support a family because, although he
was of full age, he had not all the experience of
the old man, whom he probably exceeded in the
ability of enduring hardships and privation. You,
sir, will improve the thought. It is our case, as-
suredly.

MR. GERRY TO MR. WARREN.

Philadelphia, May 1, 1770.

My Dear Sir,
I am exceedingly desirous that measures of de-
fence should be first attended to, and have place
of every other undertaking, and shall be most happy
to hear that the capital and its valuable harbour is
well fortified, and something done for the other
seaports ; that your powder mills are at work ; that
manufactures of lead and sulphur are attended to,
and preparation made for casting cannon ; that the
committees of correspondence throughout the col-
ony are ordered to make returns of the manufac-
tures of fire-arms, employed or unemployed, and
that measures are taken to erect public works ;
that the established forces, whether continental
or colonial, are well armed, equipped and ready
for action. When this is done, and 1 think with
a little assiduity it may be accomplished, the col-
178 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ony will be in a situation to receive the enemy ;
and they being informed thereof, as they generally
are of our weakness or strength, will carefully
avoid another visit.

I think it may be demonstrated that the eastern
district alone is able of itself to declare indepen-
dency. The colony of South Carolina have be-
haved nobly in taking up government, choosing a
governour, &c. ; and the convention of North Caro-
lina have unanimously voted to follow their ex-
ample.

Virginia is always to be depended upon ; and
so fine a spirit prevails among them, that unless
you send some of your cool patriots among them,
they may be for declaring independency before
congress is ready.

I am glad you approve the proposal for instruc-
tions, and can with pleasure inform you that North
Carolina has taken off from their delegates the
restriction relative to this matter, and as I am in-
formed, has left them at liberty to vote for a final
separation from Great Britain.

Your friend as ever,

E. Gerry.

In a letter to the same gentleman on 20th May,
among matters of a private nature Mr. Gerry
again recurs to this interesting subject.

" I enclose you a Virginia paper just come in,
by which you will see the spirit of another county

LIFE OF ELRRIDGE GERRY. 17!)

ill that colony, exhibited in their instructions for
independency.

In this colony (Pennsylvania) the spirit of the
people is great, if a judgment is to be formed by
appearances. They are well convinced of the in-
jury their assembly has done to the continent by
their instructions to their delegates. It was these
instructions which induced the middle colonies and
some of the southern to backward every measure
which had the appearance of independency : to
them is owing the delay of congress in agitating
questions of the greatest importance, which long
ere now must have terminated in a separation
from Great Britain : to them is owing the disad-
vantages we now experience for want of a full
supply of every necessary for carrying on the war.
Alliances might have been formed, and a diversion
been given to the enemy's arms in Europe or the
West Indies, had these instructions never appeared.
But they have had their effect ; and while we en-
deavour to recover the continent from the ill con-
sequences of such feeble politics, we ought to
show the cause of such miserable policy. It ap-
pears to me that the eyes of every unbeliever are
now open ; that all are sensible of the perfidy of
Great Britain, and are convinced there is no me-
dium between unqualified submission and actual
independency. The colonies are determined on
the latter. A final declaration is approaching with
great rapidity. May the all-wise Disposer of

180 LIFE OF ELBRIDOE GERRY.

events so direct our affairs that they may terminate
in the salvation of these afflicted colonies.

Amidst all our difficulties you would be highly
diverted to see the situation of our " moderate
gentlemen." They have been more apprehensive
of evils than any others, as we have frequently ob-
served, and they have now the mortification to
find that their measures for avoiding have but
served to increase them. I sometimes think that
Providence permitted them to clog the affairs of
the colonies, that they may become in some de-
gree desperate, and thus introduce into the circle
of determined men those timid beings, whose con-
stitution never admits of their defending freedom
on the noblest principles, and are afterwards oblig-
ed to meet danger by the same motives that in-
duced them to shun it. They are coming over to
us, but I am sorry their counter influence so long
prevented us from adopting the only means by
which we could supply ourselves with the neces-
saries for defence.

MR. GERRY TO MR. WARREN.

Philadelphia, May 28, 1776.

My Dear Sir,
Some days since I enclosed to our worthy
friend Major Hawley sundry newspapers con-
taining intelligence of importance, but not so

LIFE OF ELDRIDGF GERRY. 181

agreeable in its nature as the enclosed papers ;m-
nounee relative to our sister colonies Virginia and
North Carolina. Their conventions have unani-
mously declared for independency, and have in
this respect exceeded their sister colonies in ;i
most noble and decisive measure. I hope it will
be forthwith communicated to your honourable as-
sembly, and hope to see my native colony follow-
ing this laudable example.

Your's very truly,

Elbbjdge Gerry.

MR. WARREN TO MR. GERRY.

Water/town, June 12, 177(5.

My Dear Sir,
I received your obliging and friendly letter of
the 28th May and the papers enclosed, and should
have acknowledged it before this, if it had been
in my power. I have endeavoured to use to
the best purposes the intelligence you gave me,
and to animate your native country to follow the
laudable example of the south. Their spirit is in
your taste, and I can in imagination see you enjoy
it. You have no doubt seen in the papers a short
resolve, passed at the close of the last session, for
the purpose of getting the sense of the whole
country by the instructions given to their mem-
bers, on the subject of independence. The mem-

182 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

bers have severally been called on by the house,
and more than one half of them are instructed fully
in favour of it, and not one against it. Many
more are expecting similar instructions to follow
them, and near or perhaps all would have had
them if the resolve had reached them in season ;
thus it appears to me the sentiments of our colo-
ny are more united on this great question than
they ever were on any other ; perhaps ninety-nine
in a hundred would engage, with their lives and
fortunes, to support congress in the measure. You
seem to intend to avoid too great a shock ; there
is little left to do but the form and ceremony, but
even that is important. Your resolves for trade
and captures, and your late resolve for assuming
government, the preamble of which is extremely
grand, make the substance of the thing. I am
glad to find you so determined in the defence of
the continent, and making such preparations for it.
I expect a warm summer in many parts of it, and
to have our share here. I wish we were in a bet-
ter preparation for it. We want powder, we want
arms, and we have great difficulties in raising men.
A regiment ordered more than two months ago to
be raised under colonel Whitney, yet wants more
than a hundred men. Another under Marshal,
and one to consist of seven companies of the train,
under Crafts make but slow progress. Marshal
has not near half filled his regiment, though the
enlisting orders were given out six weeks ago.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY; 183

We have now passed in the house a resolve for
encouraging the raising; the two continental bat-
talions here, by a bounty of twenty dollars for
those who shall enlist for two, and ten for those
who shall enlist for one year. Great doubts and
hesitations we have had about this step, and finally
took it, because we could not see any difference in
the consequences, whether the bounty was given
to colonial or continental regiments, and the men
will not come without ; and they must come or
we must be lost. How to steer between Scilly
and Charybdis has been our difficulty. The re-
sentment of congress on one hand, and destruction
from our enemies on the other, have been weighed
in the balance ; we have risked the first to avoid
the last. When do you send a general here to
succeed W7ard ? He is impatient, and so is the
country. When do you send somebody here with
money to pay your troops ? I have ventured at
the earnest solicitations of general Ward, and on
the advice of many gentlemen, to proceed in pay-
ing the army as far as the money in my hands
would go, and so have really acted as paymaster
to this time, as you had made no disposition of the
money and no provision for the payment of it here.
The money is now gone, and the soldiers are mu-
tining for pay, and every department stagnated.
You cannot conceive how your affairs here are in-
jured by these means. The prize you mention is
indeed a great affair ; the several prizes since are

184 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

very important, but the loss of the Yankee Hero
is a damper. What must be done with the West-
India prizes ? They must be made legal ; British
property must not escape under the cover of West-
India property, which if real will be converted
into British as soon as it arrives. I fear the man-
ning of your fleet will go heavily. Why may not
the sailors we have taken be obliged to do duty
there, as thev make ours do on board their's ?
Will it be saucy to enquire, why you passed such a
resolve relative to Church, or if some of your late
appointments (I don't mean of major or brigade
generals) are judicious ? I never expected the peo-
ple would reward, or be grateful to their benefac-
tors the patriots, but I always supposed if there
must be lucrative or honorary places, that congress
would confer them on the most distinguished and
deserving. When I see you I will explain, if ex-
planation is wanted. I think the French will soon
interrupt the system of Britain ; every thing ap-
pears to me like it, and the intelligence you give
confirms it. We have very little news since the
last post. A number of transports with troops are
arrived below, supposed to be Highlanders ; the
court seem to bend all their attention to defence ;
we have this session no fee bills, confession or in-
congealable bills. Did you receive a letter I wrote
you from Plymouth ? I fear some of my letters to
you and Mr. Adams miscarry. We have had ru-
mours for some time of battles in Canada, in which

LIFE OF ELB1UDGE GEIUIY. 185

we have been alternately conquerors and conquer-
ed. We have had our fears from these rumours.
We have, this minute, intelligence from Canada,
by which we believe that our arms there have
finally been successful, and gained a considerable
advantage ; but I must conclude this long scroll,
and am sincerely

Yours, &c.

James Warren.

MR. HAWLEY TO MR. GERRY.

Watkrtown, June 13, 1770.

Dear Sir,

Last week I received your valued and much es-
teemed favour of the 25th of May, marked all the
contents, and notwithstanding delays and impedi-
ments which you mention, I yet flatter myself
that your congress, like the calvinistic christian,
will go on from one degree of grace to another till
you arrive at perfection. You know that a great
part of the pleasure of life arises from surmount-
ing difficulties and overcoming opposition.

You cannot declare independence too soon.
But the confederation must be formed with great
deliberation. When the present house here called
last week for the instructions of the several towns
touching independency agreeable to the recom-
mendation of the last house, (which recommenda-
186 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

tion you undoubtedly saw in the Watertown news-
paper) it appeared that about two-thirds of the
towns in the colony had met, and all instructed in
the affirmative, and generally returned to be unani-
mously. As to the other towns, the accounts of
their members were either that they were about
to meet or that they had not received the notice,
as it was given only in the newspaper. Where-
upon the house immediately ordered the unnotified
towns to be notified by handbills, and in a short
time undoubtedly we shall have returns from all ;
and it is almost certain that the returns will be
universally to support the congress with their lives
and fortunes, in case of a declaration of independ-
ence.

Yesterday our assembly resolved the requisition
of 5000 men for New- York and Canada. The
house immediately appointed a committee to de-
vise the manner of raising them, and with the ut-
most assiduity the court will pursue it till accom-
plished.

I am your most assured friend and servant,

Joseph Hawley.

Elbridge Gerry, Esq.

The assembly of Pennsylvania had adopted re-
solutions adverse to independence, and thereby
placed a very serious obstacle in the way of this

LIFE OF ELMUDGE GEltRY. 187

desirable object. The influence of a central and
powerful colony had great weight on the neigh-
bouring population, and it was deemed hazardous
by the leaders of the continental congress to make
a proposition of such vital importance, while there
remained a doubt of its being fully supported.

The delegates from New- York were also unau-
thorized, or felt themselves not fully authorized to
act definitively on this momentous concern, and the
neutrality even, and much more the opposition of
these important colonies, if it amounted to that,
was to be changed before the bold proposal could
with safety be made.

Measures were taken in each of these colonies
to operate on public opinion, and on 7th of June
the long projected resolutions concerning indepen-
dence were introduced in Congress. They were
debated that day and the day following, and again
on the I Oth, when it was resolved that the con-
sideration of the first resolution be postponed to
Monday the first day of July next, and in the
mean while that no time be lost in case congress
agree thereto, that a committee be appointed to
prepare a declaration to the effect of said first re-
solution, which is in these words, " That the united
colonies are and of right ought to be free and in-
dependent states, that they are absolved from all
allegiance to the British crown, and that all poli-
tical connexion between them and the state of
Great Britain is and ought to be totally dissolved."

188 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The ball of congress was closed during the de-
bates above alluded to. No authorized report of
the sentiments expressed by the several members
either for or against this important resolution was
ever published, and the notes and fragments, pre-
served by Mr. Gerry among his papers, are much
too loose and imperfect to warrant the transcript
of a speech, either delivered by himself or any
other member of the house. They afford evidence
of his having prepared himself to address the as-
sembly, as without such evidence it might be
inferred he did from his general habit and the
earnestness of his zeal for the success of the mea-
sure proposed.

In addition to this however the fact is known
by the declaration of one of his colleagues, who
for exactly fifty years was permitted to witness
the accumulating blessings of that memorable day.
Yes, sir, said he to the writer, Mr. Gerry made
several speeches, but one in particular, in which
he laid out his whole soul. He did not rank as
an orator with Richard Henry Lee, but he poured
out his reasons with an energy and fervour that
spoke the honest conviction of his mind. Yes, sir,
we felt obliged to him for his services in debate.
There was an honesty and sincerity about him
that was better than the thunder of Demosthenes.*

* A distinguished statesman of Massachusetts of the present
day, on an occasion when the whole people were gathering in
respectful grief round " their dead father's hody," undertook

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 189

The important vote of congress of the 10th
June was on the next clay thus communicated to

after the manner of the Roman historian to remove the veil of
secresy which obscured the discussions of the American con-
gress, and to report the characteristic language in which one of
its most profound and learned orators had probably addressed
that listening and anxious assembly.

"A fragment of a speech made in the congress of America by
one of the delegates in 1775," was published near the time of its
date, which bears intrinsic evidence of the source from whence
it came, and at all events discloses the spirit, the range of
thought and the style of address, which were really brought out
by the circumstances of the country.

"The great God, sir, who is the searcher of all things, will
witness for me that I have spoken to you from the bottom and
purity of my heart. And surely, sir, we have considered it ear-
nestly. 1 may think of every gentleman here, as I know of my-
self, that for seven years past this question has filled the day
with anxious thought and the night with care. The God to
whom ive appeal must judge us. If the grievances of which we
complain did not come upon us unprovoked and unexpected,
when our hearts were filled with respectful affection for our
parent state and loyalty to our king, let slavery the worst of hu-
man ills be our portion. Nothing less than seven years of in-
sulted complaints and reiterated wrongs could have shaken such
rooted sentiments. Unhappily for us submission and slavery are
the same, and we have only the melancholy alternative of ruin
or resistance."

"There are some people who tremble at the approach of war.
They fear it must put an inevitable stop to the further progress
of these colonies and ruin irretrievably those benefits, which the
industry of centuries has called forth from this once savage land.
I may commend the anxiety of these men, without praising their
judgment."

" War, like other evils, is often wholesome. The waters that
stagnate, corrupt. The storm that works the ocean into rage,
renders it salutary. Heaven has given us nothing unmixed.
The rose is not without the thorn. War calls forth great virtues

190 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the president of the provincial congress of Massa-
chusetts.

and efforts, which would sleep in the hosom of peace. Paulum
sepultce disiat inertia celaia virtus. It opens resources which
would be concealed under the inactivity of tranquil times. It
produces a people of animation, energy, adventure and great-
ness. Let us consult history. Did not the Grecian republics
flourish amid continual warfare? Their prosperity, their power
and their splendour grew from the all animating spirit of war.
Did not the cottages of shepherds rise into imperial Rome the
mistress of the world, the nurse of heroes, the delight of gods,
through the invigorating operation of unceasing war. Per dam-
na, per cades, ah ipso duxit opes animumque Jerro."

" How often has Flanders been the theatre of contending pow-
ers, conflicting hosts and blood ? Yet what country is more
flourishing and fertile ? Trace back the history of our parent
state. Whether you view her arraying Angles against Danes,
Danes against Saxons, Saxons against Normans, the Barons
against usurping Princes, or the civil wars of the red and white
roses, or that between the people and the tyrant Stuart — you see
her in a state of almost continual warfare. In almost every
reign to the commencement of that of Henry VII. her peaceful
bosom (in her poets phrase) was gored with iron war. It was in
the peaceful reigns of Henry VII. Henry VIII. and Charles II.
that she suffered the severest extremities of tyranny and oppres-
sion. But amid her civil contentions she flourished and grew
strong. Trained in them she sent her hardy legions forth, which
planted the standard of England on the battlements of Paris,
extending her commerce and dominion."

Those noble English, who could entertain
With half their forces the full power of France ;
And let another half stand laughing by,
All out of work, and cold for action.

" The beautiful fabric of her constitutional liberty was reared
and cemented in blood. From this fullness of her strength those
scions issued, which taking deep root in this delightful land have

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 191

MR. GERRY TO MR. WARREN.

Philadelphia, June 1J, 1776.

My Dear Sir,
Yesterday after a long debate the question of
independence was postponed until the first July,
in order to give the assemblies of the middle colo-

reared their heads and spread abroad their branches like the
cedars of Lebanon."

"Why fear we then to pursue through apparent evil real good ?
The war upon which we are to enter is just and necessary.
Justum est helium uhi necessarium, et pia arma quibus nulla, nisi
in armis, relinquitur spes. It is to protect these regions brought
to such beauty through the infinite toil and hazard of our fath-
ers and ourselves, from becoming the prey of that more desolat-
ing cruel spoiler than war, pestilence or famine, — absolute rule
and endless extortion."

" Our sufferings have been great, our endurance long. Every
effort of patience, complaint and supplication has been exhaust-
ed. They seem only to have hardened the hearts of the minis-
ters, who oppress us and double our distresses. Let us therefore
consult only how we shall defend our liberties with dignity and
success. Our parent state will then think us worthy of her,
when she sees that with her liberty, we inherit her rigid resolu-
tion of maintaining it against all invaders. Let us give her rea-
son to pride herself in the relationship."

" And thou great liberty ! inspire our souls,
Make our lives happy in thy pure embrace,
Or our death glorious in thy just defence."

This speech is unquestionably a true and faithful report of
what was actually delivered in the congress of patriots at Phila-
delphia. It discovers a richness of mind, which draws at
pleasure on the ancient and modern classics and on analogous

192 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

nies an opportunity to take off their restrictions
and let their delegates unite in the measure. In
the interim will go on plans for confederation and
foreign alliance.

If these slow people had hearkened to reason
in time, this work would have long ere now been
completed, and the disadvantage arising from the
want of such measures been wholly avoided ; but
Providence has undoubtedly wise ends in coupling
together the vigorous and the indolent ; the first
are retarded, but the latter are urged on, and both
come together to the goal.

To the obstructions in council are owing in
part our military misfortunes, which, however, we
must use as fresh incitements to greater exertions.

Your sincere friend,

E. Gerry.

Efforts were made by those who felt the import-
ance of the crisis to carry the ulteriour measure,
not merely by a bare vote, but by a full and
hearty concurrence in the great act of separation,
and to obtain not only the voice of the delegates
in congress, but the concurrence of the people.

These efforts were attended with success. It

points of history sacred or profane, indicating its eminent author.
There is a holdness too, an animation and an abruptness of man-
ner characteristic of one who was supposed to have declared in
the ardour of debate on independence, "Sink or swim, live or
die, survive or perish, 1 give my hand and my heart to this vote."

LIFE OF ELBKIDOE GERRY. 193

was urged on the reluctant colonies with great
effect, that their condition would be extremely
inconvenient when surrounded by a confederacy,
in which they were not admitted as members; ex-
posing themselves as slaves in a society of free-
men.

The people in New-Jersey and Pennsylvania
soon perceived that the original importance of the
measure derived new force from the determina-
tion of the majority of congress. The delegates
from Pennsylvania opposed to the declaration of
independence resigned. Those of New-Jersey
were recalled, and a new delegation elected, to
whom special authority was granted " to join
in declaring the united colonies independent of
Great Britain, and to enter into a confederation
of union and common defence." The assembly
of Maryland gave promise of making a change in
its delegation, so that before the day fixed for the
discussion of the question, it was confidently be-
lieved the measure would be carried by a strong
and decisive majority.

MR. GERRY TO MR. WARREN.

Philadelphia, June 25, 1776.

My Dear Sir,
I am favoured with your very agreeable letter
of 10th June, and am in hopes congress will soon
194 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

render it unnecessary to take further measures
preparatory to the declaration of independence.
New-Jersey has appointed five new delegates, and
instructed them to vote in favour of the question,
and it appears to me there is not even a doubt of
any colony on the continent except New- York
and Maryland. These will not impede us a mo-
ment. I do not affirm that either of these are of
the neuter gender, but on the other hand am per-
suaded the people are in favour of a total and final
separation, and will support the measure, even if
the conventions and delegates of those colonies
vote against it.

Since my first arrival in this city the New-
England delegates have been in a continual war
with the advocates of proprietary interests in con-
gress and this colony. These are they who are
most in the way of the measures we have propos-
ed, but I think the contest is pretty nearly at an
end, and am persuaded that the people of this and
the middle colonies have a clearer view of their
interest, and will use their endeavours to eradicate
the ministerial influence of governours, proprietors
and Jacobites, and that they now more confide in
the politics of the New-England colonies than
they ever did in those of their hitherto unequal
governments.

Your's as ever,

E. Gerry.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 195

The time now approached for the birth of the
American republic. On the first of July the com-
mittee of congress reported the draught of the de-
claration of independence. It was debated on that
and the two following days, reported to the house
from a committee of the whole on the fourth, and
on that day solemnly enacted and confirmed as
the declaration of independence by the represent-
atives of the United States in congress assembled.

The proceedings of that day present two dis-
tinct subjects of consideration, each of importance,
though in very different degrees ; the erecting
namely, of a new empire, and the annunciation
of its existence ; the independence of the thirteen
American colonies and the declaration of that in-
dependence by their representatives ; the act of
separation as a measure of state policy, and the
manner of performing it, or the merits of the state
paper in which it is contained.

With regard to the act itself, but one opinion
now prevails among the intelligent part of mankind.
In the merit as in the hazard of that act, there
was a common participation by the whole repre-
sentative body, on whom one common fate im-
pended, either for good if it prospered, or for ruin
if it failed.

In the urgency with which it was pressed for-
ward by some, and the hesitation or reluctant sup-
port of it by others, distinctions no doubt existed,
which it were not now useful to investigate.

196 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

While some, like the delegate from Massachusetts,
entitled themselves to the honour of being its early
and persevering advocates, all by their final acqui-
escence command the gratitude of their country.

The proposition of 7th June was submitted in
the form required by the ordinary rules of a de-
liberative body by Richard Henry Lee, a delegate
of Virginia. In May preceding, the delegates of
that state had been instructed to submit such a
proposition to congress. As the head of that de-
legation the duty devolved on him. It was ar-
ranged in concurrence with other leading members
of congress, who considered it a matter of policy,
that Virginia should take the lead. The condition
of Massachusetts gave her the appearance of being
a more interested party to the question than her
sisters of the south ; and the states which at that
time were the seat of war, had not fully realized
the necessity of so bold a movement.

" I shall not tell you," said Mr. John Adams in
giving some account of that day to the author,
"by whom the resolution was seconded." The
journals of congress are silent on this point, but it
is now well known that the resolution was sec-
onded by that eminent patriot, who was willing to
claim only his equal share of the large honour,
which forms a monumental column for the whole
assembly.

The committee to make the draught were cho-
sen by ballot, and consisted of Thomas Jefferson,

I

LIFE OF ELBRIDUE GERRY. 197

John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Roger Sherman

and R. R. Livingston. It is an obvious enquiry
why Mr. Lee, the mover oi* the resolution, was not
on the committee ? It has been answered that lie
was obliged to leave Philadelphia in consequence
of the indisposition of his family, but another cause
has been suggested more honourable to his disin-
terestedness, and which there is reason to belie vc
the true one. Mr. Jefferson had on his first intro-
duction to congress brought with him a high repu-
tation for elegant literature and classic taste, and
it was desirable that the councils of patriotism
should receive the aid of the learned, as they
would encounter the opposition of the powerful.
In the selection of a committee, two members
could not properly be taken from the same state,
and the place was yielded to Mr. Jefferson by the
courtesy of Mr. Lee.

It was agreed in committee that each member
should prepare such notes as occurred to him, with
a view of compiling from their joint contribution,
a memorial suited to the subject. Mr. Jefferson's
was first read, and was found in the main so per-
fectly to answer the purpose, that after having un-
dergone some amendments in committee, it was
reported to congress^

*

* In this statement we have departed in some respects from the
account given by Mr. Adams to colonel Pickering, and tran-
scribed into "a discourse on the lives and services of John Adams
and Thomas Jefferson," which will become one of the classics in

198 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Some alterations were made by congress, mostly
in verbal amendments or by curtailment. In this
operation it lost one splendid passage,* which,
although it might have been politic to remove it
from that particular instrument, proves how early
even in Virginia, and how truly the evils of the
slave system were ascribed to the councils of the
mother country. The plan of the subject, the
boldness and vigour of its sentiments, the strength
and energy of its language were not altered, and it

our literature. In so doing we have an equally high authority.
If the statement in the text is right, Mr. Adams's draught may
hereafter he found among his papers and given to the world.
It would be a most interesting study, both for the scholar and
the statesman, to examine the same great subject as it was
evolved and brought out through the different alembics of such
mighty minds.

* The passage referred to is the following: —

" He has waged a cruel war against human nature itself, vio-
lating its most sacred rights of life and liberty in the persons of
a distant people who never offended him, captivating and carry-
ing them into slavery in another hemisphere, or to incur misera-
ble death in their transportation thither. This piratical warfare,
the opprobrium of infidel powers, is the warfare of a christian
king of Great Britain determined to keep open a market, where
men should be bought and sold ; he has prostituted his negative
for suppressing every legislative attempt to prohibit or to re-
strain this execrable commerce ; and that this assemblage of
horrours might want no fact of distinguished die, he is now ex-
citing these very people to rise in arms among us, and to pur-
chase that liberty, of which he has deprived them, by murdering
the people among whom he also obtruded them, thus paying off
former crimes committed against the liberties of one people with
crimes which he urges them to commit against the lives of an-
other."

LIFE OF ELHRIDGE GERRY. I !I9

now stands before the world substantially as it \\;i>
prepared by its eminent author, who if he had not
added to this splendid effort the devotion of a long
life to the service of his country, would by that
alone have acquired a glory coeval with the ages
of the republic.

The declaration of independence as a state pa-
per has not often been the subject of criticism.
There is an elevation, a dignity and a solemnity in
its style suited to the greatness of the occasion.
There is a tone of high and chivalrous feeling
about it that so well accorded with the temper of
the times and with the excitement which the enu-
meration of wrongs and grievances are calculated
to produce, that its faults, if it have any, have con-
tributed to its popularity.

In later time it has been considered too severe
in its language ; and the objection probably im-
plies, that as wTe are further removed from the
theatre of the revolution, the grandeur and peril of
its scenes strike us with less force. We do not
feel as our fathers felt.

A state paper prepared for posterity is to deal
only with principles as immutable as human nature,
and none other have a place in this elaborate ex-
position. The proper style of their enunciation is
a cmestion of taste, but it partakes more of re-
finement than strength of mind to take offence at
the bold language in which an oppressed people
would enumerate their wrongs. In the cotempo-

200 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

raneous commentaries made on it by the friends of
the ministry at home and abroad, there was much
cavil at its doctrines and some question as to its
facts, but no objection, that we have seen, to its
high merits as an effort of intellectual skill. In a
true republican spirit it places the objects of gov-
ernment in the good of the governed, and its right
on their will ; and as a corollary therefrom asserts
the power of the people to abolish one government
and institute another, " lying its foundation on
such principles, and organizing its powers in such
form as to them shall seem most likely to effect
their safety and happiness."

This was a doctrine to be sure, which had for
many years been familiar to the patriots of the
American congress. In the controversy between
the governour and house of representatives in Mas-
sachusetts, it had been the theme of many an able
harangue and eloquent state paper ; and to illus-
trate and enforce it, and to bring the public mind
to admit it and to feel its weight and importance,
and its inseparable connexion with public liberty,
had been the unceasing effort of the republican
advocates throughout the continent. The declar-
ation did indeed contain nothing new, but the
occasion was not one which demanded new truth
or new argument ; it required a solemn, forcible,
impressive recognition of truth that was familiar.
This the declaration contains. " To say of the
author that he performed his great work well,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 301

would be doing him injustice. To say that he did
excellently well, admirably well, would be inade-
quate and halting praise. Let us rather say, that
he so discharged the duty assigned him, that all
Americans may rejoice that the work of draw-
ing the title deed of their liberties devolved on
him."
202 L[FE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER XIV.

Letter communicating the Declaration of Independence Received

with joy in Massachusetts Character of the Act Commit-
tee of Congress visit Camp Letter from Head Quarters.

The great event, in which he had most heartily
co-operated, was communicated without delay by
Mr. Gerry to his constituents in Massachusetts.

MR. GERRY TO GENERAL WARREN.

Philadelphia, July 5, 1776.

Dear Sir,
I have the pleasure to inform you that a deter-
mined resolution of the delegates from some of the
colonies to push the question of independency *
has had a most happy effect, and after a day's de-
bate all the colonies excepting New- York, whose
delegates are not empowered to give either an af-
firmative or negative voice, united in a declaration
long sought for, solicited and necessary, the de-
claration of independency.

* The word was usually spelt in that manner. Hence the
point of a remark made by a tory to a member of congress,
" You have all gone far enough to be treated as rebels, and may
expect to be in a state of pendency (that is to be hung) whether
you declare for independency or not."

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 203

New-York will most probably on Monday next,
when its convention meets for forming a constitu-
tion, join in the measure, and then it will be enti-
tled the unanimous declaration of the thirteen
United States of America.

I enclose you a copy of the declaration for your-
self, and another for major Hawley, and offer you
my sincere congratulations on the occasion, and I
pray that we may never want the divine aid, or the
spirit and the means to defend it.

Yours, &c.

Elbridge Gerry.

The delegates from New-York received the ex-
pected authority. On the twentieth of July the
places of the delegates from Pennsylvania, who
had retired, were supplied by a new election. In
expectation of this event it was on the nineteenth
of July ordered that the declaration passed on the
fourth, and which had in the usual manner been
authenticated by the signature of the president
only, be fairly engrossed on parchment with the
title and style of " The unanimous declaration of
the thirteen United States of America," and that
the same when engrossed be signed by every
member of congress. On the second day of Au-
gust the copy being made and examined was sign-
ed at the table by the members the* present, and

204 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

of course bears the names of some gentlemen, who
were not members on the day it was originally
adopted.

As an event in political history nothing is enti-
tled to higher consideration than the independence
of the United States. Not merely did a new na-
tion take rank with the empires of the earth, but
the immutable principles, on which its right to do
so rested, became distinctly avowed, better under-
stood and more widely extended, and a foundation
was established for incalculable improvement in
the moral and political character of mankind.

The necessity of a change in the relation be-
tween Great Britain and her colonies was early
perceived by American statesmen. It was urged
on by men of forethought and political knowledge,
and was consummated by a fearlessness and intre-
pidity, which disregarded all personal considerations
in devotion to the public good.

Physical courage merely is not indeed a rare
quality. It is seen in the rudest of our race. Its
greatest efforts are often displayed for very inferiour
objects. But that higher quality of mind, which
shrinks not from the most fearful responsibility that
duty requires, and is ready to jeopardize not
merely life or fortune, but what to men of this class
is their dearer jewel reputation, on the uncertainty
of future events, is the sublimest display of moral
greatness. Men are drawn into battle often by an
jmpulse, whiofa they cannot control ; they engage

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 205

in a profession, which is conversant with danger,
when its threatening^ are too far distant to pro-
duce any sensible effect ; they arc hurried through
the field of death by that excitement and enthusi-
asm, which render them for the moment insensible
of personal peril. By a wise ordinance of nature
the instinct of self preservation ceases on those
awful fields of carnage, where mountains of the
slain show to how little purpose it could operate,
and a new feeling more of frenzy than of reason
produces prodigies of valour by men, who have no
interest in the result ; who seem destined to equal
suffering, whether the battle be lost or won.

The educated and intelligent mind in the exer-
cise of moral courage has harder and nobler duty.
Life to a man of this character is not the mere
fact of animal existence, but the manner of it. It
is fame, honour, renown. To him it is not a ques-
tion, whether he shall court danger and die nobly,
but whether the conduct, which may terminate life,
will not sacrifice reputation. The prospect before
him is not glory in the field, but ignominy on the
scaffold ; not the honour which is never denied to
a brave man beaten in battle, buV-the shame which
attaches to the convicted traitor, whoso misfor-
tunes imply false calculation, and are registered as
crimes. No impulse but judgment, no enthusiasm
but duty contributes to this moral firmness. It
is cool, calculating and deliberate. It decides in
the calmness of reflection, when duty and danger,

206 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

or defection and safety are not concealed by any
parade of circumstance.

Men of this description composed the American
congress. Posterity will be generous to their
fame. Every year has increased the brightness
of their glory. The signers of the declaration of
independence will receive the admiration of a
grateful country through all the coming ages of
the American republic.

The news was received every where with joy
and festivity, and especially by the patriots of
Massachusetts,* who had so earnestly urged the
consummation of independence.

MAJOR HAWLEY TO MR. GERRY.

Northampton, July 17, 1776.

Dear Sir,
I have often said that I supposed a declaration
of independence would be accompanied with a
declaration of high treason : most certainly it

* It was announced in Boston with military pomp. Gun-
powder was plenty enough to allow of a grand national salute
of thirteen guns. The public officers partook of a collation in
the council chamber.

Success is more rarely borne with equanimity than misfortune.
" In the evening the king's arms, and every other sign with any
resemblance to it, whether Lion and Crown, Pestle, Mortar and
Crown, Heart and Crown, &c, together with every sign that
belonged to a tory were taken down, and the latter made a gen-
eral conflagration of in King's Street."

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 207

must immediately and without the least delay
follow it. Can we subsist ? Did any state ever
subsist without exterminating traitors ? I never
desire to see high treason extended here further
than it is now extended in Britain. But an act of
high treason we must have instantly. The colo-
nies have long suffered inexpressibly for want of
it. No one thing made the declaration of inde-
pendence indispensably necessary more than cut-
ting off traitors. It is amazingly wonderful, that
having no capital punishment for our intestine
enemies, we have not been utterly ruined before
now. For God's sake, let us not run such risks a
day longer. It appears to me, sir, that high trea-
son ousht to be the same in all the United States ;
— saving to the legislature of each colony or state
the right of attainting individuals by act or bill of
attainder. The present times show most clearly
the wisdom and sound policy of the common law
in that doctrine, or part thereof, which consists in
attainting by an act of the whole legislature. Our
tories (be sure the learned of them) knew very
well the absurdity of punishing as high treason
any acts or deeds in favour of the government of
the king of Great Britain so long as we all allow-
ed him to be king of the colonies. Dear sir, this
matter admits of no delay ; and when the act de-
claratory of high treason is passed, the strongest
recommendation for a strict execution of it, I hum-
bly conceive, ought to accompany it. Our whole

208 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

cause is every moment in amazing danger for want
of it. The common understanding of the people
(like unerring instinct) has long declared this ; and
from the clear discerning which they have had of
it, they have been long in agonies about it : they
expect that effectual care will now be taken for
the general safety, and that all those who shall be
convicted of endeavouring by overt act to destroy
the state, shall be cut off from the earth.

The levying an army for the war after the first
of January next lies heavy upon me. The present
levies for reinforcing the armies are by order of
congress only till the first of December next. It
appears to me high time to set seriously and in
the greatest earnest about it. I observe, sir, that
you charge the miscarriages in Canada partly to
the short time for which the troops were raised.
You know that nothing will detain our people
after the expiration of the term for which they
were engaged. It will be in vain to attempt to
enlist New-England people for a longer term than
two years. No bounties will induce them to en-
gage for a longer time ; I fear for no longer time
than one year.

I have not time to add a word more. Too
early or earnest care cannot be taken for the pro-
viding good barracks and covering for our northern
army or armies against the cold season of the year :
they suffered much last campaign when about
Boston, for want of seasonable covering and firing.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE OERBY. 209

We are apt to delay. Let us strain every nerve.
Don't let us hesitate a moment at any necessary
expense. We will conquer or die. Amen.

If you judge any thing in this confused epistle
worth communicating to your brethren of this col-
ony, (to whom I present my sincerest respects)
you are at liberty to communicate it.
And I am, dear sir,
Your true friend,

And faithful humble servant,
Joseph Hawley.
Mr, Gerry.

MR. DALTON* TO MR. GERRY.

Newburypokt, July 19, 1776.

Dear Sir,
I wish you joy on the late full declaration, — an
event so ardently desired by your good self and
the people you particularly represent. We are no
longer to be amused with delusive prospects. The
die is cast. All is at stake. The way is made
plain. No one can now doubt on which side it is
his duty to act. We have every thing to hope
from the goodness of our cause. The God of
justice is omnipotent. WTe are not to fear what

* Mr. Dalton was speaker of the house of representatives of
Massachusetts, and afterwards a memher of the senate of that
state, from which he was elected to the first senate of the United
States under the present constitution.
210 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

man or a multitude can do. We have put on the
harness, and I trust it will not be put off until we
see our land a land of security and freedom, the
wonder of the other hemisphere, the asylum of all
who pant for deliverance from bondage.

Wishing every blessing to attend you, I am,
dear sir, with great regard,

Your obedient servant,

Tristram Dalton.

The situation of the united colonies at the time
when the bold measure of severing their connexion
with the British crown was in debate before con-
gress, was not one which could have accelerated
the event by the specious flattery of recent suc-
cess. The declaration was reported and the reso-
lution confirmed from a conviction on the minds
of its illustrious advocates that it was the right of
the country to assume independence ; that the
declaration would strengthen their own arm, in-
crease their resources, facilitate a connexion with
foreign powers, and lead to the successful termina-
tion of the struggle in which they were engaged ;
but no part of the motive in which this interesting
occurrence originated, could have been derived
from a false estimate of security or the undue ele-
vation which good fortune too frequently inspires.
The American cause had as yet little for encour-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGR GERRY. Ill

agement, beyond the righteousness of its princi-
ples, and the firmness and moral feeling of the
country.

The British army, it is true, had been forced to
evacuate Boston ; but the labour of the contest
convinced the Americans of their weakness, and
of the vast expense at which future efforts were
likely to be made. The leaders of the revolution-
cause were satisfied that they were miserably de-
ficient in all the necessary preparations for war.
They were aware of the inadequacy of their funds ;
of the great difficulty with which money or its
representative could be commanded ; and what was
even a more serious difficulty, of the reluctance
with which the people would submit to the re-
quirements of a state of war ; of the jealousy
every where entertained of a military force, of their
unwillingness to give it a permanent character,
and of the prodigality and inefficiency of the only
organization, which their habits would allow them
to provide for an army. At the moment the plan
of independence was in debate, general Howe had
returned from Halifax ; and before its actual
adoption, the British army had taken possession of
Staten Island and menaced the city of New-York.
It was not then under the excitement of victory
and in the flush of success, that the patriots of
1776 determined to proclaim the independence of
their country ; it was in the school of adversity,
amid calamities which already pressed upon them

212 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

with severity, and in the prospect of dangers of
indefinite continuance that the resolution was
adopted to live free or die.

The independence, which had been declared
with so much boldness, it became necessary to de-
fend. General Howe, in conjunction with his
brother the admiral, came with authority to con-
test the claims of the Americans by force, or to
conciliate them by offers of peace. All attempts
at negotiation within the limits of their commis-
sion were soon rejected, and the hostile armies
prepared to contend for victory in the field.

The first efforts of the enemy were directed on
Long Island, where general Sullivan under the
immediate inspection of the commander in chief
was stationed in great force, with good expecta-
tion of maintaining his defence. The result of
the battle was disastrous in the extreme. An. un-
precedented slaughter of the best troops of the
country was sustained ; and the preservation of
the remainder was owing to the personal exertion
and ability of general Washington, whose " re-
treat from Long Island may justly be ranked
among those skilful manoeuvres which distinguish
a master in the art of war."

There were not wanting, however, enemies of
the fame of this great man, who were willing to
use the unfortunate result of the engagement of
the 27th August and the disasters which followed
it, to the injury of his reputation as a general,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGF GERRY. 213

and to take advantage of the irritation always pro-
duced by want of success, to diminish the lustre
of a character which owed its greatness not to for-
tune but to virtue.

In a letter, addressed by the general to congress
soon after this event, the true source of the evil
was more correctly pointed out. It was ascribed
to the insubordination of the detachments of mili-
tia, and the infection of their example on every
other part of the army. " The militia," says he,
" instead of calling forth their utmost efforts to a
brave and manly opposition in order to repair our
losses, are dismayed, intractable, and impatient to
return." He urged on congress the futility of de-
pending on any force collected by short enlist-
ments, and pointed out the unwarrantable expense
of these temporary recruits, whose wastefulness
and ignorance cost in the end more lives and
money than a permanent army.

The pressing remonstrances of the commander
in chief, and the painful lessons of experience ob-
tained the attention of congress. The board of
war were directed to prepare a plan for the next
campaign, and a committee of congress consisting
of Mr. Sherman, Mr. Gerry and Mr. Lewis, were
appointed " to repair to head-quarters near New-
York, to enquire into the state of the army, and
the best means of supplying their wants."

It was a moment of difficulty and discourage-
ment, but it did not enervate or diminish the con-

214 LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY.

fidence and zeal of Mr. Gerry. He derived from
the disasters of the time new motives for greater
exertion, and a resolution to proceed with more
activity and vigour.

" The congress have ordered me here," said he
in a letter from the head-quarters of the army,
dated 28th September 1776, " with two other
gentlemen, to enquire into the state of the army
and report a plan for supplying its wants. We
have attended the business very closely with all
the general officers three days, and shall return
with all expedition.

" The situation of the camp affairs I dislike, but
doubt not we shall soon bring them right. Reso-
lution and perseverance will carry men through
difficulties, which at first view look insurmounta-
ble, and I hope Americans will ever keep this in
mind as an animating consideration under disap-
pointments, which naturally happen in war.

" We have been fortunate enough to procure the
resignation of the former quarter-master-general,
whose department was in an exceeding bad way,
and have prevailed on general Mifflin to resume it.4
This has given affairs new life. Our plan is to
reinforce the army, adopt more effectual means for
clothing it ; to hasten the new levies ; to procure
better officers, and have an instructer of the first
abilities for the officers of each brigade ; to estab-
lish a laboratory under the direction of a board of
ordnance ; to regulate the hospital de, novo that

LIFE OF BLBfUDGE GERRY. 216

better care may be taken of the sick; and various
other minor improvements. The general aspect
of our affairs has nothing that ought to discourage
us ; and the misfortunes of the army should lead
us to make greater exertions."*

The measures indicated in the foregoing letter
were recommended to congress in a report of the
committee made on the third of October. After
a discussion and delay of several days, resolutions
were passed in conformity to its principal provi-
sions. Additional clothing was promised to the
noncommissioned officers and soldiers, who would
engage in service during the war ; the states were
required to have their levies completed by the 10th
November ; a greater regard to the character of
the officers was enjoined in their appointment ;
the general and regimental hospitals were new
organized, a commissariate general of clothing was
established, general Mifflin appointed quarter-mas-
ter-general, and the sum of three hundred thousand
dollars advanced for the articles which he had re-
ported to be wanting in his department.

These measures were scarcely arranged and the

* At this visit to camp Mr. Gerry accompanied some of
the general officers on a reconnoitring party. In order to take
a nearer view they left their horses in a hollow, and went on foot
to a piece of high ground on which it would have heen impru-
dent to appear on horseback. The enemy discovered them. A
shot from a cannon cut the tree at which Mr. Gerry's horse was
fastened, and he left his master to take care of himself. The
party narrowly escaped being made prisoners.

216 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

confidence of the people revived in some degree
. by the activity and perseverance which they indi-
cated, when on the 17th of the same month the
finances demanded the renewed attention of con-
gress, and Mr. Gerry was appointed chairman of
a committee " to bring in a plan for the better re-
gulating the treasury board."

Business of more pressing emergency prevented
any great improvement in the details of this de-
partment. Disaster continued to shroud the Ame-
rican arms. A powerful and victorious enemy
were crowding on them, and exhibiting superiority
of discipline and knowledge in the art of war, as
well as an overwhelming disparity of force. Phila-
delphia was threatened, and congress quitted that
city for Baltimore on the twelfth of December.

In no wise discouraged by successive misfortunes
congress under the influence of that inflexibility of
purpose, by which its prominent members were
distinguished, never for a moment despaired of the
commonwealth.

They resorted to the source of all power for aid
to their struggling fortunes, and directed the ob-
servance of a day of solemn fasting and prayer.
Nor did they ask the assistance of Heaven without
doing what they could to deserve it. Their own
power was exerted in manly efforts to check the
sweeping tide which was threatening them. With
a generous confidence in the sincerity of the popu-
lar will to accomplish the great objects of the

LIFE OF EL1J1UDGE GERRY. 217

contest, and a well placed reliance on the enduring

patriotism of the illustrious commander of their
armies, they did in effect appoint him dictator for
six months, with authority to take the most speedy
and effectual means to raise sixteen battalions of
infantry, three thousand light horse, three regi-
ments of artillery and a corps of engineers ; to
take whatever he might want for the use of the
army, to arrest such as refused to receive the conti-
nental money or were otherwise disaffected to the
American cause, with other equivalent powers,
which it would have been safe at no other time to
have intrusted to any man, and to no other man
at any time than to the virtuous Washington.
218 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GEItRY.

CHAPTER XV.

New commission as Delegate from Massachusetts Letter of Ro-
bert Treat Paine Committee of Congress sent to Camp

Letter of General Washington of General Warren An-
other Committee of Congress sent to Camp.

The disasters of the army of the United States
in the latter part of 1 776 had in some degree been
relieved by the brilliant affairs of Trenton and
Princeton, and congress returned to Philadelphia
on 4th March 1777.

The commission of the delegates from Massa-
chusetts was renewed by a vote of that state, and
two gentlemen already distinguished for their at-
tachment to the cause of the people, Mr. James
Lovell and Mr. Francis Dana, added to their
number.

Mr. Gerry continued assiduously at his post in
congress during the whole of the year, and in the
alternation of good and ill fortune, which succes-
sively attended the arms of his country, maintain-
ed in her councils the same equanimity of mind,
and exerted himself to animate others with that
steady resolution by which alone the great objects
of the controversy could be accomplished.

It was not however in the military department
only that causes of anxiety were continually re-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 219

curring. To support an army, means were re-
quired novel in their character and oppressive in
their operation, and devices were resorted to for
the purposes of immediate effect, which the states-
men of the day were compelled to adopt, not as
most wise in themselves, but as the best which
the condition of the people would permit.

Mr. Paine, one of the delegation, had a recess
from his duty in congress in the early part of the
year, and from a nearer point of observation thus
describes some matters of interest in the state of
Massachusetts.

MR. PAINE TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, April 12, 1777.

My Dear Sir,
I have before me your kind letter of February
14th, and have delayed writing merely because I
was in expectation of collecting something solid
and decisive respecting some public measures, but
matters seem to be worrying on at a strange rate ;
the regulating act, though framed with the great-
est care and good intentions, and though called
for by almost every body, is now reprobated by
many and obeyed by few. Many that are sup-
posed good judges in the mercantile way tell you,
" that if silver and gold were passing instead of

220 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

paper, the prices of goods would be as high, and
that nothing but reducing the glut of paper cur-
rency will save the credit of it." No doubt goods
would be higher in war than peace, and the act
made provision for that, and meant to state such
prices as silver would regulate in time of such war :
but the glut of money is horrible. Yet while
I lament the emission of such quantities I can
but recollect the occasion : taxation should have
begun sooner, loans should have been coeval with
the emission : but unhappily, governments were not
sufficiently formed nor the people prepared in all
of them for the former ; and the seat of war draw-
ing the bulk of the currency with it, made loans
impracticable and disagreeable in other govern-
ments. The remedy is obvious : particular gov-
ernments must emit no more, on pain of censure.
Rhode-Island in particular must be watched most
narrowly, or she will drown New-England with
paper, and then suffer individuals to do all in
their power to depreciate it ; of which there are
some shocking instances. We have begun tax-
ation with an assessment of 105,000/. ; and such
has been the largeness of the bounties given by
some towns to raise the new army, as to equal
their proportion of the public tax ; which alto-
gether falls as heavy again on individuals as it did
last war. But the great evil lays here, for which
some remedy must be found : the cause of the war
has thrown property into channels, where before

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 22 1

it never was, and has increased little streams t<>
overflowing rivers : and what is worse, in some re-
spects by a method that has drained the sources
of some as much as it has replenished others.
Rich and numerous prizes, and the putting six or
seven hundred per cent, on goods bought in peace
time, are the grand engines. Moneys in lat
sums, thrown into their hands by these means,
enables them to roll the snow ball of monopoly
and forestalling; and thus while these people are
heaping up wealth and (what is very astonishing)
doing every thing to depreciate their own proper-
ty, the remaining part are jogging on in their old
way, with few or no advantages, and the salary
men and those who live on the interest of their
money are suffering exceedingly. Let us now
apply taxation to these circumstances. The man
of visible property will stand highest in the valua-
tion. It is exceeding hard to ascertain stock in
trade ; and with many of these people large sums
come and go lightly : by this means they who are
best able to pay the tax and circulate the money
back to the fountain where it is wanted, escape
with a very small proportion, while others who
stand high in the valuation because they used to
be so, are called upon for sums that bear hard
upon their abilities. Cannot some mode be hit
upon to draw money by taxation from those who
are really the possessors of it ? Might not an im-
post on privateers or their prizes be so contrived

222 LIFE OF ELBKIDGE GERRY.

as to bring large sums to the treasury without dis-
couraging that business ? Why should one part
of the community reap such large profits by a
branch of business licensed by congress, without
contributing their proportion towards supporting
government ? It will eventually be serviceable to
them, as it tends to secure their accumulated
wealth from the enemy and from depreciation. If
the southern governments say they are not ripe
for these matters or do not need them, I hope they
will consent to some useful measures for regulat-
ing matters with us. The lottery tickets came at
last and sell rapidly ; and I think the sale of the
first class will ensure the sale of all the others :
the plan is very popular. The loan tickets sell
very fast, and I please myself with the prospect
of great profit from these branches. For Heaven's
sake, let something be set a-going before these are
exhausted. There must not be more money emit-
ted, and all the colonial emissions must be called
in as soon as possible.

I have wrote Mr. Hancock about our progress
in cannon making. They make good iron field
pieces at Connecticut and at Providence. I hear
Mr. S. Adams was very ill at Baltimore, but I had
the pleasure of hearing from his lady the other
day that he was recovered. My compliments to
both the Mr. Adams' : I intended to have wrote
them on particular subjects, but continual avoca-
tions render it impracticable. Pray describe to

LIFE OF ELBKIDUE GERRY. 223

me as nearly as you may, the situation of your
affairs. Without any great skill in astrology, I

calculate that you intend to send for me season-
ably, before dog days come on. I hope you are
well and in good spirits. Remember me to Mr.
Lovell. I wish to know to what pitch the price
of living and expenses have arisen.

The house have passed a resolve calling upon
towns to instruct their next representatives to
consult and form government : it now lays at the
board. The small pox is breaking out continu-
ally,— hospitals erecting in very many places.
There are so many objects of importance to at-
tend to, that one may well say in a political sense,
the harvest is great, but the labourers are few.
I am your friend and servant,

R. T. Paine.

Mr. Gerry.

In July Mr. Gerry, with Mr. P. Livingston and
Mr. Clymer as a committee of congress repaired
to the head-quarters of general Washington,
where in pursuance of their commission, they in-
stituted a diligent enquiry into the state of the
army, and particularly into the causes of complaint
in the commissary's department, having authority
to make such provision as the exigency and im-
portance of the case required. Several days w<
passed by the committee in camp in the duties ol

224 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

this appointment, which resulted in reforming in
various important particulars the details of the ser-
vice. The labour of the committee did not end
with their residence at camp.

GENERAL WASHINGTON TO MR. GERRY.

Camp at Pennybackers Mill, Sept. 27, 1777.

Sir,

I am favoured with your's of the 25th. I yes-
terday wrote you that I did not think myself au-
thorized to seize upon any arms the property of
private persons ; but if they can be collected and
the owners satisfied for them, it would be of very
essential service, as great numbers of militia would
join the army could they be furnished with arms.
I am glad you have began the collection of blank-
ets and shoes ; this business cannot be carried to
too great an extent ; and I think if the measure
is properly pursued, great quantities of blankets,
rugs and coverlids, may be collected in the back
counties.

The approach of the enemy to Philadelphia hin-
dered the officers I sent upon that business from
doing much. The disaffected hid their goods the
moment the thing took wind, and our friends had
before parted with all they could spare.

As soon as Gibson's regiment, or any of the

LIFE OF ELRRIDGE GERRY. 225

Virginia militia arrive at Lancaster, be pleased to
forward them without delay.

I am, sir, your most obedient servant,

George Washington.

The evils resulting from the vicious system
of supply, which had thrown on the continent
a flood of depreciating paper, uncertain in its
value, fluctuating from day to day, and redeema-
ble only from such irregular sources as rendered
all negotiations mere speculations with the haz-
ards of a lottery, were increasing in magnitude
and variety. The attention of congress, as well
as the local governments, had been repeatedly
drawn to it as a millstone which hung round the
cause of the country, and so fastened to it that
neither art nor strength had yet been able to re-
move it. Not only the price of all articles were
excessively high, but even a high price would not
always command them. A system of extortion, it
was supposed, was practised by those who had
the means of supplying the army, which was now
brought distinctly under the animadversion of con-
gress, and a series of resolutions were adopted by
them for the prevention and punishment of this
conduct, which in the earlier period of the contest
could not have been thought necessary or even
possible. These resolutions, which recommended
the seizure of private property on certificates be-
226 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ing given of its value, and other measures not then
accordant to the manners of the people, it was
deemed proper to explain and justify in a circular
letter. Mr. Gerry was added to the committee,
by whom the resolutions were reported, for the
purpose of making the requisite defence of a sys-
tem of such novelty and boldness.

The circular letter, prepared for this purpose,
displays the indignant feelings of the writer at the
alarming increase of venality and corruption, at
variance as they were with that disinterested spirit,
by which alone the revolution could be made suc-
cessful.

" It is with deep concern," the letter proceeds,
" that congress after having for some time contem-
plated in painful silence the mischiefs, which
threatened this extended continent from the grow-
ing avarice of the times, feel themselves constrained
to recommend measures which the virtues of all
classes of men rendered not long since unneces-
sary, and which a scrupulous regard for security
of property to every citizen of these states has
hitherto restrained them from adopting. But un-
happy the case of America ! laws unworthy the cha-
racter of infant republics are become necessary to
supply the defect of public virtue and to correct
the vices of some of her sons, and she is called
upon by the grand principle of self preservation to
guard against the parricide of those she has fos-
tered in her bosom."

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 227

GENERAL WARREN TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, Nov. 24, 1777.

My Dear Sir,
I received vour's of the 20th October, and am
well pleased with the bravery of our troops in the
defence of Red Bank. I hope they will continue
to repulse the enemy till they give up the project
of getting their ships up. In short I hope to hear
that Howe and his army are reduced to at least
the same situation that Burgoyne is in. Whether
I expect too much or not you can best tell, but my
faith is great, and when our northern boys join the
army we here shall expect great things. We are
frequently flattered with great expectations from
the accounts we have, but it is impossible to de-
scribe to you how uncertain our intelligence is.
We used to hear as often and with as much cer-
tainty of the operations of war in Flanders as now
in Pennsylvania. We have had an account for a
week, as you will see in our papers, of another
attack on Red Bank by Comwallis, but cannot
get the certainty. I am glad to hear the confede-
ration is so nearly completed, and that you are going
to have recourse to taxation and confiscation ; the
first is necessary, the last is useful and shows a
manly resolution. We have a large tax this year,
and to be paid in without delay, which with stop-
ping the circulation of all money but continenatl,

228 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

have already (though the time for stopping circu-
lation is not by law to commence till the first of
December) had great effects. I see with pleasure
the merchants wanting money, and I am told that
all kind of goods are falling. Yesterday arrived
here a French merchantman from Bourdeaux with
goods, linen and woollen, and also one of our pri-
vateers from the same place in nine weeks. I
have tried this morning to get you some intelli-
gence, but cannot. It is said this privateer had
great indulgence and assistance afforded him, but
that there was an order for all American vessels to
depart by a certain time, but he conceives it to
be a piece of French finesse. Tn short the French
politics appear to me mysterious. They had heard
of the taking of Ticonderoga, but the people in
general did not believe it ; the court, however,
might. These people say that it don't appear to
them that the French wish for a war. They don't
conceive the breach between England and Ame-
rica to be yet wide enough, and suppose we should
again unite with Britain. However, if we can do
for ourselves so much the better, and I hope with
a continuance of the blessing of Heaven we shall.
I congratulate you on the success in the north. I
hope you will return me your's on an equal success
in the south. The conduct of the expedition
against Rhode-Island has tarnished our glory, but
that expedition has ended as I prophesied to you
i% would. We wanted nothing but a head ; we

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY. 529

had it not, and succeeded accordingly. I

obliged to write this morning in a ureal hurry,
and can only add my regard to friends, and wishes
for your health and happiness, and am with great
sincerity your's, fcc.

James Warren.
Elbridge Geiry, Esq.

Another circumstance not less important de-
manded the attention of congress. Philadelphia
was again in the power of the enem\ . The ef-
forts to preserve it at Brandywine and German-
town had resulted certainly in the defeat, and ac-
cording to the opinion of an increasing party, in
disgrace to the American arms. The projected
retirement of general Washington to winter quar-
ters was represented as a fault, and probably be-
lieved to be so by those, who always consider mis-
fortune as a crime. The assembly of Pennsylvania
distressed by the loss of their capital, and desirous
of throwing the blame on others, which in part at
least was attributable to their own neglect and
supineness, addressed a remonstrance to congress
against the measures of the commander in chief,
and expressed very strongly their disapprobation
at the conduct of the war.

Under these circumstances on 28th November
Mr. Morris, Mr. Gerry and Mr. Jones were ap-

230 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

pointed a committee forthwith to repair to the
army, and in a private confidential consultation
with general Washington to consider of the best
and most practicable means for carrying on a win-
ter's campaign with vigour and success — " an ob-
ject which congress has much at heart, and on such
consultation with concurrence of general Washing-
ton, to direct every measure which circumstances
may require for promoting the public service."

Before the arrival of this committee the opinion
of the general officers had been taken in a council
of war and a resolution adopted, which the weak-
ness, rather than the inclination of the parties
rendered expedient, to leave Philadelphia without
further effort in possession of the enemy.

The written opinion of the council and the state-
ment of the general were submitted to the revision
of this committee. Whether the facts it disclosed
or the argument supporting it would have made a
like impression on the minds of the deputation
from congress was not ascertained, for during their
discussion general Howe marched out of Philadel-
phia with a view of attacking the American lines.
A series of marches and countermarches ended in
retirement to winter quarters, the English in Phi-
ladelphia and the Americans at Valley Forge.
During these movements the committee continued
in the field, adding to the influence of their civil
station the services of military volunteers.

" We were anxiously desirous," says Mr. Gerry

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. J 31

in a letter of 12th December, "of an attack on
the city, that as our troops were superiour in point
of numbers one vigorous exertion might have caused
general Howe to share the fate of his brother Bur-
goyne, and should not have hesitated to have called
in militia from Virginia to Massachusetts Bay, but
the general had before our arrival consulted his
officers and found them averse to it with their
present force."

" I am sometimes induced to wish that the two
armies were in the eastern states, that the militia
like a cloud might rise and overwhelm the enemy,
but after many instances of most happy events
from what we supposed unfavourable circumstances,
I cannot but apply to the present contest the gene-
ral principle of Mr. Pope, ' Whatever is, is right.' "

The committee of congress made their report
on the 16th, and after discussion a resolution was
adopted which implied some dissatisfaction in that
body, and conveyed an intimation that more vi-
gorous exertion of the military power of the con-
tinent ought to be used for the preservation of that
part of Pennsylvania which lies east of the Schuyl-
kill, and of the state of New-Jersey.

232 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER XVI.

Intrigues against the Commander in Chief. Massachusetts Dele-

gation vindicated from any share in these Intrigues Corres-
pondence ivith General Knox Letter from Francis Dana.

To the perils and embarrassment which on every
side beset the illustrious commander of the Ame-
rican arms was added, in that dark and gloomy
period of the war, a diminution in some degree of
the confidence of some individuals in congress.

The intrigues of general Conway, the good for-
tune if not the ambition of general Gates, and the
melancholy depression of the forces under the im-
mediate direction of the commander in chief, con-
spired to throw round him a gloomy atmosphere
of dissatisfaction, which congress could not escape.

It was the darkness and distrust only of a mo-
ment. The unshaken firmness, the cool, collected
self-possession, the disinterested virtue of Wash-
ington, dispelled the delusion. Men saw the
greatness of his mind, the integrity of his princi-
ples, the unsullied purity of his motives ; they
realized that reverential feeling with which he in-
spired those, whose fortune brought them with him
into any of the relations of military life.

The dissatisfaction, which was circumscribed,
though it undoubtedly existed in congress, a for-

LIFE OF ELBUIDGF GERRY. 233

eign writer has unjustly charged on the Massachu-
setts delegation.

" It was believed at the time," says Botta in his
history of the war of independence, " that the
members of congress from Massachusetts, and
particularly Samuel Adams, had never been able
to brook that the supreme command of all the
armies should have been conferred on a Vir-
ginian to the exclusion of the generals of their
province, who then enjoyed a reputation not iufe-
riour and perhaps superiour to that of Washington.
It appeared also, that these delegates being the
most zealous partizans of the revolution, were far
from approving the moderation of the commander
in chief. They would have preferred placing
at the head of affairs a more ardent and decided
republican ; and it is asserted, that they were on
the point of demanding an enquiry into the causes
of the unsuccessful issue of the campaigns of the
years 1776, 1777."

There is great incorrectness in this statement,
and great injustice also to the character of the
Massachusetts delegation.

The appointment of general Washington to be
commander in chief of the armies of congress, was
made on the nomination of Mr. John Adams ; and
had been first recommended in a letter to the
Massachusetts delegation written by Mr. Gerry
with the approbation of general Joseph W'arren.*

* See page 79.
234 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

It was received with cordiality by the leaders of
the opposition in the colony of Massachusetts Bay
on account of his preeminent qualifications. No
man at that period had acquired higher military
reputation. In other not less necessary qualifica-
tions for a commander of such an army, in pru-
dence, judgment, high moral worth, weight of per-
sonal character, and in the stake of private pro-
perty which he had in the contest, no individual
in the nation had at the time of his appointment a
claim to this dangerous distinction over the emi-
nent officer on whom it was conferred.

Policy would have reconciled the patriots of
New-England to the appointment. It was im-
portant to enlist the feelings and the interest of
their southern brethren in a controversy, which
then but remotely involved them in its conse-
quences ; and this could not better be done than
by giving to their most distinguished citizen the
command of the national force. It drew to the
standard of the country those whom the personal
character of the general could not fail to attract to
any cause in which he was engaged, and it was
the evidence of a generous confidence in common
exertions for a common cause.

The imputation of less worthy motives than can
be derived from an honourable attachment to the
great cause of the people is disingenuous and un-
fair. It is supported by no proof, and is refuted
by that personal devotion to the public service,

LIFE OF ELIJRIDUE GERRY. !■>■>

which marked all the public and private sacrifices
of men, who constantly exhibited evidence that
they had no other object than the general welfare.

That the delegates of Massachusetts were, as
the Italian writer asserts, the most zealous parti-
tans of the revolution, is certainly true ; but that
they on that account " were far from approving
the moderation of the commander in chief," is ;in
inference, that does not follow from the premises,
and is entirely without corroboration from extrinsic
circumstances.

The commander in chief was at no time charge-
able with moderation, in the offensive sense which
the term supposes. In a warm and zealous dispo-
sition to prosecute the war with energy and effect,
in solicitous and importunate efforts to excite con-
gress to early and permanent measures for a dis-
play of military force, in constant remonstrances
against the dangers of short enlistments and the
inefficiency of the departments of the army under
their immediate direction, the last accusation
which could be urged with any plausibility against
general Washington, was an unreasonable modera-
tion.

The Fabian policy, which he adopted at times
of discouragement and depression, was not, it is
true, surrounded by the splendour and fascination
of a more adventurous and enterprising course, but
the delegates of Massachusetts were not wanting
in that maturity of judgment, which appreciated

236 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the full value of his prudence and decision. The
clamour that arose proceeded from men, who
either felt less intensely than they did for the final
success of the great cause in which they were en-
gaged, or saw with less perspicuity than marked
the Massachusetts delegation, the necessity of
measures, which, if they did not equal their
wishes, were commensurate with their means.

It happens, however, in further contradiction of
the imputations of the writer before alluded to,
that at the time of the movements in congress
connected with the commander in chief, two prin-
cipal members of the delegation of Massachusetts
were absent from that body. Mr. Samuel Adams
and Mr. John Adams left Philadelphia for Mas-
sachusetts on the 11th November 1777. Mr.
Gerry, Mr. Dana and Mr. Lovell remained to re-
present the state. Had any measure, having so ex-
tensive and important an operation as the expres-
sion of disaffection to the leader of the national
army been then in preparation, it is hardly to be
imagained that these eminent men would have re-
tired from their post. Nor can it with the least
propriety be imagined that in the absence of their
distinguished colleagues, the remaining representa-
tives of Massachusetts, two of them new mem-
bers, would have been instrumental in promoting
30 hazardous an experiment.

But it rests not on conjecture or argument. In
,tne intercourse which was maintained between

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE CJERRY. 237

Mr. Gerry as a member of the committee of con-
gress and the commander in chief, and in his let-
ters to other correspondents concerning the mili-
tary affairs of the country, there is abundant evi-
dence that no feeling of hostility existed in his
mind ; and we are sure that general Washington
reposed with great security on his esteem and
friendship and unremitted support.

The disaffection of some individuals in congress
towards the commander in chief, was suggested
in conversation by Mr. Gerry to his particular
friend general Knox, the gallant commander of the
American artillery, known by the strong feel-
ings of personal friendship, which not less than
official duty bound him to his distinguished leader,
and certainly the last man in the army to have
been intrusted with a secret cabal or intrigue
against Washington.

General Knox being separated by the sudden
movements of the army from the vicinity of Mr.
Gerry, addressed to him a letter upon the subject.
Unwilling to put upon paper the nefarious design
which his generous attachment made him desirous
of investigating, he writes in a style that without
explanation might not easily be understood, but
which by reference to the time and circumstances,
it is easy to see relates to movements in congress
hostile to the commander in chief.

238 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

GENERAL KNOX TO MR. GERRY.

Artillery Park, Great Valley, Jan. 4, 1778.

Dear Sir,

When we parted I expected soon to have had
the pleasure of some conversation with you, but
the movements of the enemy prevented.

The subjects then started appeared to me of such
magnitude and pregnant with such consequences,
that I freely confess I wished to have had my
mind relieved from some painful apprehensions,
which possibly might have been taken up without
sufficient information. You then seemed to think
the matter which was mentioned improbable and
impossible, and it appeared so to me too ; but in-
trigue, misinformation, caprice and unsuccessful
efforts combined, may very probably have bad
effects on the minds of good men. How far these
have been practised you best know. I think from
the conversation general G. and we had together,
you will be able to recollect enough to have a clue
to this paragraph, which may otherwise be obscure.

It is a matter of consequence, that those in the
senate should be well acquainted with the senti-
ments that pervade the army and community at
large. The prepossessions of the army in favour
of the character hinted at, are founded upon a
thorough experience of his ability, judgment, cour-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRV. .'.59

age and attachment, and they would infinitely pre*

fer him before a Turenne or a Conde. K\< t\
military character on this continent, taken collec-
tively, vanishes before him ; and he is not only a
soldier, but a patriot in the fullest sense of the
word ; and as it is impossible truly to describe a
living character, it must be left to posterity to do
him ample justice.

I have thought I observed a certain jealousy of
the army, as if they wished to be invested with
powers and commands inconsistent with the liber-
ties of the people. Certainly this is a most lauda-
ble jealousy, provided it does not go so far as to
impede the public cause. That there are persons
who have been and are still in the army, who wish
to have their power perpetuated at the expense of
the liberties of the people, is but too true ; but it
is by no means the sentiment or wish of the army
in general, who consider themselves only as citi-
zens in arms, and who would rejoice to return to
private life were the independence of America es-
tablished. They are citizens of America, attach-
ed to her by every tic binding on the heart ; and
the man ought to be suspected of the blackest vil-
lany, who would endeavour to propagate an unrea-
sonable jealousy of them.

It cannot possibly be supposed that the pay the
soldier receives is his only inducement to enter
the field. Those who have known the hardships
and seventies of' the two last campaigns must think

240 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

otherwise : nor can the officers' pay and rank be
reckoned his sole motive. Something must be
attributed to a rational, manly desire to be instru-
mental in the defence of the liberties of his coun-
try.

Rank, which is the greatest spur to glorious ac-
tions, is distributed to any that lay claim to
it, in a manner disgraceful to the army at large,
and particularly those superseded. Men have
been rewarded with rank without having the least
pretensions to it, unless cabal and intrigue are
reckoned pretensions. Persons have undeservedly
been disgraced by some late promotions, who enter-
ed the service at the commencement of hostilities
with the most pure ardour to serve the cause, and
who have continued exerting their utmost abilities
for the happiness of their country. Yet after
their utmost endeavours they find congress, the
collective wisdom of the people, despise their ex-
ertions and abilities, and disgrace them in the face
of the world, put to torture all the fine feelings of
the human heart, and fill the mind with chagrin
and disgust. And for whom or what ? For con-
spicuous merit ?

I can attribute it to no other cause than a disin-
clination to say, no. Perhaps I am in the wrong.
I know not the motive, but wish you to inform
me ; not with a view of being reconciled to it,
but to govern myself and act with consistency.
I shall in a few days set out for New-England, in

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. -ill

order to make the proper arrangements in the
ordnance department for the next campaign. I
shall take it kind of you, if you will write to me
and direct to Boston.

I am, dear sir, with great respect,

Your most obedient humble servant,

H. Knox.
Elbridge Gerry, Esq.

MR. GERRY TO GENERAL KNOX.

York, in Pennsylvania, Feb. 7, 1778.

Dear Sir,
I have not yet been able to make any discover-
ies that can justify a suspicion of a plan being
formed to injure the reputation of, or remove from
office, the gentleman hinted at in your favour of
January the 4th ; and the alarms that have been
spread and jealousies that are excited relative to
this matter, appear to be calculated rather to an-
swer mischievous than useful purposes ; at least,
I fear this will be the consequence. It is essen-
tially necessary to the authority of an officer, that
those who are under him should have confidence
in his abilities, and pride in his character; and
certain it is, that those cannot long exist where
they are frequently called in question. How
then can we account for such groundless rumours
at a time when the character of this worthy officer
242 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

is high in congress, and when there appears to be
an intention of the members to support him, but
by considering them as the effect of a party spirit,
that is dangerous to the cause in which we are
engaged ? I am exceedingly distressed at the
dissentions that begin to prevail in the army :
they augur ill ; and whilst uncorrected, are of
themselves sufficient to reverse our affairs. I
know your firm attachment to the cause, and ex-
press myself without reserve, that we may co-ope-
rate in preventing an evil that has frequently in-
volved in ruin mighty empires ; an evil that, if not
timely prevented, cannot be remedied. How fre-
quently do we find in history that an artful gene-
ral has spared no pains or expense to accomplish
such purposes in the camp of his adversary ; and
when we consider that we are at war with a na-
tion which for centuries past has been trained to
the business, that our former connexions with her
expose us to dangers from intrigues, which other-
wise could not be carried into effect, surely too
much caution cannot be used to guard against in-
ternal dissentions. I know not the source of the
uneasiness which we are speaking of, but it would
not be any ways surprising to me to find the ene-
my at the bottom of the dispute ; and if they did
not originate it they will certainly promote it, un-
less the officers of the army should wisely prevent
it. The disputes relative to rank have probably
had some share in exciting this spirit : but here I

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY. -13

must condemn some of the officers, in opposing a

constitutional exercise of the authority of con-
gress. A resolution was after the most mature
deliberation entered into in February 1777, to
appoint general officers upon three principles,
which respected their former rank, their merit
and the proportion of troops raised by the states
to which they severally belonged. This was ne-
cessary to give satisfaction to the states, was con-
sidered as a wise and politic measure, and I have
reason to believe will be invariably pursued at all
events. But what has been the consequence of
every appointment of general officers made by
congress ? If it did not suit the whole army, op-
position has taken place, and reduced congress to
the necessity of asserting the rights of themselves
and their constituents, or consenting to give them
up in a manner that would sap the foundation of
liberty. I have ever thought that such an opposi-
tion has been the effect of inadvertence, and of
not recurring to first principles ; but the injury
which the civil liberties of America derive there-
from is the same as if a premeditated attack had
been made against them. It appears to me that
the army have generally mistaken notions of hon-
our when they suppose that a foreign officer of
great experience cannot be introduced to high
rank without disgracing all below him. I have
as great prejudices in favour of my countrymen as
any person perhaps, on earth, and will readily

244 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

grant that with the same degree of experience
and under similar advantages, no officers what-
ever will exceed them in skill and prowess ; but
can any person suppose that a year or two in the
service of the United States will qualify an officer
as well as ten or twenty years' service in the ar-
mies of Europe ? And has not our cause been
almost ruined ? Does it not at this instant suffer
greatly from the want of experienced officers ?
Under these circumstances then, is it not evident
that the honour of an officer, who readily consents
to promote the service of his country by giving
place to experience, is established, whilst those
who oppose this do it at the expense of their re-
putation f

I know of no promotions of any consequence by
congress that have not been made on the purest
principles, and a full conviction of merit in the
officer appointed : but such are the prejudices of
each person in favour of himself, that it rarely
happens when he exercises a judgment in his own
cause that he can divest himself of partiality in
every respect ; whence the necessity of decisions
in all cases of a legal or public nature by disin-
terested persons.

Your friend

And humble servant,

E. Gerry.
General Knox.

LIFE OF ELI3RIDGE GERRY. 2 J5

In a confidential letter to Mr. Gerry, dated at
Camp Valley Forge, February IGth, 1778, his col-
league Mr. Dana, who is equally implicated a->
one of the Massachusetts delegation inimical to
General Washington, gives not the slightest colour
to the suggestion that they had joined in conspir-
acy to remove him. He does however display
the condition of the army with an energy as cred-
itable to his own feelings as it is to the patriotism
of that gallant band, and has drawn with a rapid
pencil the picture of sufferings, which made every
day severer to them than a battle.

MR. DANA TO MR. GERRY.
Moore Hall, Camp Valley Forge, Feb. 1G, 1778.

My Worthy Friend,
Your favour of the 8th instant I had the plea-
sure of receiving on the 13th, and am much oblig-
ed to you for the variety of matter it contains.
Before I pay a particular attention to it, I will
give some account of the state of our army, which
demands a most serious consideration. A great
proportion of the soldiers are in a very suffering
condition for want of necessary clothing, and to-
tally unfit for duty : but even this evil would have
been patiently endured had not another, irresisti-
ble in its nature, taken place, the want of pro-

246 LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY.

visions. Congress will wonder, when we acquaint
them, that the army, or any part of it, have want-
ed bread, since but a short time before we assured
them that there was no probability of a deficiency
in that article, and that there was a sufficiency al-
ready purchased and engaged. We founded this
opinion upon the information of colonel Blane.
Several brigades complained they had been desti-
tute of flour two, three and four days. We re-
examined colonel Blane, who assured us that if
such a want took place, it must be owing to neg-
lect in the issuing commissaries or quarter-masters,
as flour was deposited in the magazines. An en-
quiry was instituted at head quarters, the result
of which was a general blame ; but such is the de-
pendence of the army, even upon some scoundrels,
that they dare not proceed to punish the most
negligent at present, lest the sufferings of the
army, instead of being relieved, should be increas-
ed. I yesterday mounted my horse and rode into
camp and passed through several brigades, some
of which were said to have been destitute of flour
several days, enquiring separately of all the officers
I knew, of different ranks, and am satisfied that
by comparing their accounts I learnt the real state
of these brigades : indeed the accounts were not
very different. For flour they had not suffered ;
but upon an average every regiment had been des-
titute of fish or flesh four days. On Saturday eve-
ning they received, some three-fourths and others

LIFE OF ELBRIDCiK GERRY. .'17

one half pound of salted pork a man, — not one
day's allowance : nor haw they assurance of irecu-
lar supplies in future. We do not see from whence
the supplies of meat are to come. The want of
it will infallibly bring on a mutiny in the army.
Sunday morning colonel Brewer's regiment rose
in a body and proceeded to general Patterson's
quarters, in whose brigade they are, laid before
him their complaints, and threatened to quit the
army. By a prudent conduct he quieted them,
but was under a necessity of permitting them to
go out of camp to purchase meat as far as their
money would answer, and to give their certificates
for the other, and he would pay for it. The
same spirit was rising in other regiments, but has
been happily suppressed for the present by the
prudence of some of their officers. But no pru-
dence or management, without meat, can satisfy
the hungry man. In plain terms, 'tis probable
this army will disperse if the commissary depart-
ment is so damnably managed. Good God ! how
absurd to attempt an expedition into Canada,
w7hen you cannot feed this reduced army ! All
the meat you have in magazines or can purchase
in any part and transport here, will not be more
than sufficient to satisfy the daily wants of this
army for months to come. This consideration
induces me to set my face against that expedi-
tion, which I think I foresee will be extending
from time to time, till it becomes a great object.

248 L[FE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

I lament it was not confined to its original limits.
Is it yet too late to reduce it ? The passes on the
North river must be secured, or without question
this and the neighbouring states of Jersey, Dela-
ware and Maryland must be evacuated by our
army. They cannot be fed with meat but from
beyond that river. But more on this subject when
I have the pleasure of meeting you.

Your's,

F. Dana.

LIKE OF ELMUDGE GERRY. 249

CHAPTER XVII.

Articles of Confederation Re-elected a member of Congress

Duties of the Committee of the Treasury Other Committees of

Congress Letters of General ff'arren Mr. Otis Mr.

Phillips General Lincoln Letters of the Tories.

The year 1777 was distinguished in congress
by the adoption of articles of confederation and
perpetual union between the thirteen states.

From the first assembling of a congress the im-
portance and necessity not only of a strict union
and confederacy between the states, but certain
fixed and permanent rules for government and in-
tercourse had been apparent, and Dr. Franklin in
July 1775, reported a sketch of articles of con-
federation which were discussed, and formed the
leading features of those afterwards adopted. In
June 1776, a committee of one member from each
state was appointed to digest the form of a con-
federation to be entered into between the colonies.
In August following a'iiew draught was submitted
to the consideration of congress, and on the 15th
November after various amendments the confede-
ration was adopted by congress and referred for
ratification to the legislatures of the states.

During the discussion of these articles which
250 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

form the ground-work of our present constitution,
Mr. Gerry was present and contributed very much
to their final adoption. Many of the same great
questions, which at a subsequent period gave rise
to such variety and earnestness of opinion, were
introduced and debated through the whole period
that the confederation was before congress. The
great doctrine of state rights — the equality of the
states — their representation, obligation and duties
— the power and ratio of taxation or of contribu-
tion to the expenses of war and government, with
other topics of minori nterest, were the subjects of
constant argument and debate.

The course of deliberation was conducted with
profound secrecy, and no record now remains of
that wisdom and intelligence, of that capacious and
accurate view of political science and ethical phi-
losophy, which a discussion of the principles of
government must have drawn forth from the ac-
complished civilians who were members of the
congress of 1777.

We have the authority of a venerable member
of that august assembly for declaring that Mr.
Gerry mingled in these debates and devoted to the
important subject a thorough and close application.
His vote is recorded in the printed journals on
every question that was taken in form, and there
can be traced in this incipient effort to establish a
national constitution, somewhat of that course of
thought and those views of government, which on

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 251

a greater occasion in a subsequent period of his
life he had the manliness to defend.

The commission to the Massachusetts delegates
was renewed on 12th December 1777, for the
ensuing year, and John Hancock, Samuel Adams,
John Adams, Robert Treat Paine, Elbridge Gerry,
Francis Dana and James Lovell or any three of
them were authorized and instructed with other
delegates from the American states to prosecute
with vigour " the present just and necessary war,
concluding peace, contracting alliances, regulating
commerce and guarding against the encroachment
and machinations of the enemies of the United
States."

Congress had at the period now under con-
sideration immense duties to perform. The entire
control of affairs executive and legislative, foreign
and domestic, civil and military, devolved on an
assembly which often counted less than thirty in-
dividuals in their seats ; frequently important ques-
tions were decided by the ayes and noes of two-
thirds that number.

Most fatiguing labour devolved on all the regu-
lar committees, with very little assistance from
clerks, by whose aid in modern times the detail of
duty is pleasantly diminished.

The committee of the treasury, of which from
his first entrance into congress until the organiza-
tion of a treasury board in 1780 Mr. Gerry was a
member, and for most of that period chairman*

252 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

had an herculean task. More than one-half the
time of congress was devoted to their department.
It appears by the journals that in eighteen
months ending in July 177<>, in addition to the
standing duties of this committee, one hundred
and sixty-eight different subjects were specially
referred to them, and that they made during the
same time two hundred and sixteen reports. But
the number and variety of private applications to
the chairman of that committee were almost innu-
merable. It would seem from the files of Mr.
Gerry's papers, that every person in every part of
the continent, who had any business with congress,
felt at liberty to address him, and that nobody
wrote him without the civility of a reply.

In addition to the constant assiduity which such
a state of things required, almost every day brought
with it some particular subject for a special com-
mittee, of which, by the journals of the house, it
appears that more than a proportional share de-
volved on Mr. Gerry.

It was this useful, patient, untired attention,
this devotion to the practical detail of affairs, which
entitled the members of that session to the ap-
plause of their country. A splendid speech draws
upon the orator the admiration, which rewards the
labour that produced it. Pride has its satisfaction,
ambition is gratified, and the glory of the effort
generates a new attempt for similar success ; but
the business of the committee room, by far the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GFRRY. 253

most useful toil of a legislator, has all its honour
in the self-satisfaetion it produces. It has no au-
dience to excite its activity, no applause to cheei
the solitude of its labours, and no fame as a com-
pensation for fatigue. The congress of 1777 was
a field for no personal display, but it demanded the
exertion of the highest intellectual powers and the
most fatiguing employment of physical strength.
The members of that congress devoted themselves
to its multifarious duties, feeling that they held
in their control the destinies of a great people,
with a consciousness that they were conducting
them in the eye of Heaven, but scarcely with the
expectation that posterity would appreciate the
sincerity of their zeal.

From the mass of correspondence which by the
habits of that period was carried on with the mem-
bers of congress, the following letters enable us to
catch a view of some of their affairs, and give the
private opinions of distinguished men on some in-
teresting concerns.

GENERAL WARREN TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, Jan. 15, 1777.

My Dear Sir,
When I last wrote to you I had no expectation
that my next must be directed to you at Balti-
more. I shall not enquire how or for what rea-

254 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

sons you are there, but implicitly suppose that
every motion of body or mind made by congress
is prudent and right. I hope however that you
are not so far removed from the seat of war and
din of arms, that the timid and the wishers for a
reconciliation with Britain can forget the late pro-
gress and wanton and cruel devastation of the
British troops. If it should rouse them and put
an end to their fears and wishes, it will be happy
for us. The troops at Rhode-Island have remain-
ed till this week very quiet, and nothing of conse-
quence had taken place there, till last night we
heard they had burnt Newport and were supposed
to be going off. I hope next spring we shall be
able to open and support a campaign with advan-
tage. I have favourable prospects of the raising
our quota of men ; very considerable numbers en-
list. I believe they will fill up our battalions in
that way, but if it is like to fail we shall levy them
on the towns. Great quantities of clothing have
been procured here, not less I presume than a suf-
ficiency for eight or ten battalions, which is chiefly
sent forward ; more will yet be collected, though
the principal channel of our supplies is in some
measure stopped. An embargo now here has
stopped many privateers. The price of every
thing is extravagant, and the extortion of sellers
unbounded ; to check it we are now forming a bill
to fix the prices of provisions, merchandise, la-
bour, &c. Whether it be practicable to carry such

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. ::>■>

an act into execution or not, time must discover.
If it can be done it may serve us; if we attempt
and fail it will certainly do more hurt than good,
by increasing the evil, and at the same time bring-
ing our authority into contempt. No new form of
government is yet adopted. Every body seems to
wish for it, and a number of us are incessantly
moving and pressing for it ; what hinders I don't
know, except downright laziness. A few prizes
are dropping in, but not in such numbers as here-
tofore. The general apprehensions are that the
enemy intended to make an attack here next
spring, and when powerfully reinforced would
enter by the way of Rhode-Island. Whether this
sentiment be right or wrong, it is certainly good
policy to encourage and cherish it, that we may
be the better provided. I hope we shall be ready
for them, and though I should be sorry to see our
country the seat of war, I should submit, suppos-
ing it for the good of the whole. I think they
would not be able to traverse this country as they
have York and the Jerseys. However, a French
war will put an end to all their traverses here.
We are frequently told that you have the offer of
French troops. I hope that will be the last re-
source. Why do we not hear of French men-of-
war, when ten sail only might answer all our pur-
poses and all our wishes ? I believe you wonder
I have never yet forwarded such a state of
facts as you mentioned. I have not been fortu-

256 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

nate enough to get Winthrop and Lathrop together.
Lathrop has been in an hospital with the small-
pox. The matter is completed by myself and
Winthrop, and I expect to have it done next week
by Lathrop, when I will send it forward by first
safe hand. Please to make my regards to my
friend Mr. Adams. I will write him as soon and
as often as I can.

I am sincerely your friend, &c.

James Warren.

MR. S. PHILLIPS, JUN* TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, Feb. 22, 1777.

Sir,
Although I may incur an imputation which I
would wish to avoid, in offering to take up one
moment of a gentleman's time, whose present sta-
tion must necessarily crowd him with the most
important concerns, I will overcome the reluc-
tance arising from this apprehension, if it is only
to ask, whether it is not of the utmost consequence
to banish from the army eve/y sutler who is trad-
ing on his own account ? I have been long pained

* Mr. Phillips was distinguished by his fellow-citizens in the
honourable stations of speaker of the senate and lieutenant gov-
ernour of Massachusetts.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 257

by the accounts received of their management, but
the experience of the last week impressed mo
more deeply than ever with the importance of a
thorough alteration of matters in that department.
The court had a recess this day fortnight to give
an opportunity for the members to be at home
using their influence in the respective towns to
get the several proportions in each, which it was
supposed would complete the fifteen battalions
allotted to this state. But the difficulty in obtain-
ing them is beyond what I can give any idea of,
arising principally from the treatment of the soldiers
the last campaign. They do not complain of the
fatigues to which they have been exposed, (which
we know were very great) but the want of things
necessary to make them comfortable in clothing
and sustenance. As to the latter, except flour
and beef, they could receive little of any thing,
not even in sickness more than in health, save
what they purchased at the most extravagant
prices of the sutler, who would strip the poor
soldier of his whole month's wages of forty shil-
lings for what he could have bought at home for
35. 4d. This is literally fact, and I can prove it !
At the same time, says the soldier, I must have
suffered, and many more of us when in sickness
would have died, had it not have been for the sut-
ler. And 'tis in this way that the scoundrel,
who is too lazy to do the duty of a soldier himself,
and never was worth 205. in all his life before,
258 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

made 3,000 dollars at Ticonderoga in one summer !
This also I can prove. Nor is the misery intro-
duced into the army all that is chargeable upon
this class of people ; for being able to get what-
ever they please for their goods in camp, they
will outbid every body else at home, and in their
zeal go far beyond what they have necessity for.
One great cause this of the extravagant price, to
which every necessary has been advanced among
us. Whereas if these were hung (for many of
them deserve nothing else, being inveterate tories
in principle, who would delight in nothing more
after the advancement of their own interest, than
in the ruin of the American army and destruction
of their country) these same goods, some of them
at least, might be purchased here for one-half the
price they have given, and delivered to the soldiers
for one-eighth of the sum that has been extorted
from them.

The soldier then asks me, when the state makes
the addition of a bounty of twenty pounds to the
encouragement of congress, and individuals in the
several towns add one hundred dollars to all this,
(for I don't know of more than two men out of
the twelve companies in and about Andover that
have been procured under) what security he has,
that he shall come home a whit better at the end
of the three years than he did at the close of the last
year, without a garment to his back or a farthing
in his pocket ? I tell him of the provision this state

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 259

has made to supply their own soldiers with things
comfortable at the first cost, and charge of trans-
portation ; and was it not for this, we could not
get a man. But every day opens new difficulties
in the prosecution of such a plan for a single state.
Many of these would vanish was the measure
adopted by the continent.

And for various reasons, which strike me forci-
bly, I conceive it of the last consequence that it
be entered on instantly with the utmost vigour,
so far at least as to be securing the articles ; for
the villains who found such plunder last year, are
indefatigable in purchasing every thing, they don't
care at what price ; are thereby oversetting the
regulating act, introducing the utmost confusion,
and putting it out of the power of those, who may
want to purchase for the public, to execute their
commissions. If such a measure should be adopt-
ed by the congress, the success would depend
upon the activity, integrity and perseverance of
the person employed. If it would not savour too
much of vanity, I would beg leave just to remind
you of captain George Williams of Salem ; he has
shown himself at court this year, and done us emi-
nent service.

I could wish to write much more, but have al-
ready trespassed on your patience, and have time
only to ask, if it would not be prudence to secure
all the cotton wool in New-England that is not
already disposed of, to be worked up with the

260 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

flax, of which enough may be raised among us, for
the use of the army ?

I am, sir, with much respect,

Your most obedient servant,

Samuel Phillips, Jun.

GENERAL LINCOLN TO MR. GERRY.

Bound Brook, March 14, 1777.

Dear Sir,
Before you receive this the congress will have
the state of our small army, who are now encir-
cling the British troops; and information, that
notwithstanding general Washington is filled with
the most painful apprehensions from a considera-
tion of the weakness of his several posts, and the
ill consequences that would attend their loss,
the Massachusetts militia are leaving the camp.
I hope this will not be considered as arising from
a want of spirit and zeal, either in officers or men.
I presume it will not be, when it is known and
considered that Massachusetts has now in service
of their militia near six thousand ; that the state
has passed a law to fill up their proportion of the
continental army by a draught on the inhabitants,
which is now carrying into execution ; that a great
proportion of the militia in service are farmers and
men of property ; that they have served the longest

LIFE OF EMSRIDGE GERRY. 361

time for which they engaged ; that the spring will
be considerably advanced before they can reach
their homes, some having more than four hundred
miles to march ; that if the husbandman loses the
benefit of the spring, he in a great degree will lose
the advantages of the summer also, which will not
only involve many families in distress and want,
but be very injurious to the public ; for it is evi-
dent to every observer, that great attention must
be paid to our husbandry as well as our arms ; for
notwithstanding we have a country capable of pro-
ducing all kinds of necessary provisions in great
plenty, yet from the large number of men taken
from the field into the continental army and marine
service, the frequent calls for militia, the waste
and destruction spread in the states of New- York
and the Jersies, and from a queer sort of despair
in some, arising from a belief that the game is up,
as they express it, and therefore nothing is to be
done but what mere necessity requires. And from
many other causes, I am apprehensive unless hus-
bandry is attended to we shall soon feel the ill
consequences of it, not only with regard to sup-
plies of provisions, but also with regard to the ar-
ticle of clothing. Therefore the increase of our
sheep and the culture of flax, are objects which I
think demand the public attention ; for admitting
that all the ports in Europe were now open to us,
what have we to give in exchange for the articles
usually imported ? That surplusage of men who

262 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

were employed in the cod and whale fishery, manu-
facturing of iron, potash, naval stores, &c. &c. &c.
are now either in the land or sea service of the
states. Had we a full supply of wool and flax,
which we might easily obtain in all parts of the
United States, we could, at this time, carry on
the woollen and linen manufacture more success-
fully than we ever before had it in our power to
do ; for it may be easily demonstrated, that by the
loss of men already in the present war, and by the
absence of so many from their homes, who in all
probability would otherwise have married, we have
a number of unmarried women sufficient by com-
mon industry to manufacture clothing for the
whole army together with their own, who in all
probability had the states remained in peace would
have been married, and instead of manufacturing
clothing for the army, would have been employed
in that necessary and honourable business of bear-
ing and nursing children. Besides, if we raise
our own flax and wool, which may be done with
few hands compared to what it would take to
prosecute trade, and have it so manufactured
among ourselves, we make a great saving of men.
Moreover, was there a full supply of those articles,
all the clothing necessary for the states would be
easily made and the people quieted ; for instead
of finding any inconveniences from the high price
of goods, they would reflect with great satisfac-
tion that necessity had taught them to live. I

LIFE OF EL15RIDGE GERRY. 863

don't mean to discountenance trade;, 'tis said to be
the wealth of a people ; I only wish we may not
by our own neglect be reduced to the necessity of
prosecuting it in violation of that known principle
of good policy in trade, of preserving the balance
of it in our own hands.

I therefore most ardently wish the congress
would take up the matter so far at least as to re-
commend to the several states, by bounty or other-
wise, to encourage the raising of flax and increas-
ing their stocks of sheep ; for although many indi-
viduals assent to the utility of the measure, yet
too few attempt to carry it into execution further
than as it relates to their own private consump-
tion.

Please to present my best regards to our mem-
bers of congress. And believe me to be with
great truth and sincerity your's affectionately,

B. Lincoln.

MR. S. A. OTIS* TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, March 17, 1777.

Dear Sir,
I should not presume to address you, " overplied
by public energies" as you must necessarily be,

* This gentleman was successively member of Massachusetts
board of war, speaker of the house of representatives of Massa-
chusetts, and secretary of the senate of the United States from
the adoption of the constitution till bis death.

264 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

but from experience of your friendship, and that I
hear frequent complaints of want of information
and intelligence from hence.

Nothing has lately occasioned more speculation
than the doings of the New-England convention ;
and I venture to assure you, so agreeable were
their proceedings to the sentiments of the people,
that except those grumbletonians who would cen-
sure the police of Heaven if they had any idea of
it, the most unreserved approbation was given to
it. Both houses of assembly almost unanimously
adopted their measures. They produced the re-
gulating bill, the treason act, the bill against
crimes less than treason, the embargo upon our
navigation, and inland restrictions of a similar na-
ture ; and another determination, which the con-
vention came into, is abetted by our utmost exer-
tions.

The people are much more compliant with the
price or regulating bill than was expected with an
act, which but from the necessities of the times
would be resented, as doing violence to liberty
and property. The merchants, the most aggriev-
ed, only reason against the most exceptionable
clauses. Instead of clamouring, all are sensible
the act passed with the design of encouraging the
enlistment ; all are possessed of the necessity of
every effort to that purpose, and I hope the ap-
portionment of the fifteen battalions lately made
upon the several towns, a return of which we are

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 265

to have by the 5th March, together with enlist-
ments daily making, will in tolerable season effect
that noble purpose.

A merchant and a statesman as well as a patri-
ot, will you forgive my asking your opinion of the
embargo? It appears beyond eontradiction, we
have carried on the war in great measure at our
enemy's expense, by means of our privateers.
But a land army must be had ; I feel it must.
Is there no superiour genius who can del tse
ways and means at once to raise an army, push
our naval affairs spiritedly and revive our dying
commerce, upon which, in a great measure, must
depend the payment of armies, the manning our
fleets and the cultivation of our country ?

I have neither permission from you or time to
add any thing further, and presenting my compli-
ments to the gentlemen from the northward,

I am respectfully,

Your obliged friend and humble servant,

Samuel A. Otis.

Hon. Mr. Gerry.

MR. OTIS TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, Nov. 22, 1777.

Sir.

io

The consideration of our public affairs being in
so glorious a situation fills my soul with thanks to
266 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

him who overturns empires, pulling down one and
setting up another : — and indeed the capture of a
royal, brave and well appointed army, the repulsing
and baffling of another, considering all circumstan-
ces, is little short of miraculous.

When the tribute of gratitude is paid to the
great first cause, what honour is due to the brave,
the great actors in this grand scene ! I congratu-
late you, my honoured friend, in acting so con-
spicuous a part in it. May the rewards of virtue
be your consolation through the struggle ; may
wealth and honour crown your old age !

My compliments to the honourable delegates of
our state.

The honourable Mr. Hancock arrived here on
Wednesday, though by his appearance far from
being in the situation of general Burgoyne when
he advanced upon us, " in the full power of
health."

There is great expectation of a new form of
government in our state. I hope it will be a good
one, and an executive power will be lodged some-
where ; at present if there is any, you would be
puzzled to find it : hence the chariot wheels drag
so slowly.

I hear we have got the secret expedition to pay
for amongst ourselves, which is unfair and unequal,
though it was conducted in a wretched manner.

The taxation so rapidly coming in fashion here
will make our people look about them ; I am
apprehensive of the operation.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 267

Mr. Meuse has forwarded his directions with-
out a draught, or any ways and means to collect
the needful, though he intimates the doing it soon.
A man who goes to market without money, poor
as it is, will come home very hungry.

I know not what ways and means in general
are proposed ; another continental emission don't
fall in with my system, and negotiating loan cer-
tificates approximates to emission.

The board of war desire respectfully to be re-
membered to you and the other delegates.
And I am respectfully,

Your friend and most humble servant,

Samuel A. Oris.

From the extract of another letter it may be
seen what one of Mr. Gerry's correspondents in
Europe required. " I expect from you," he writes,
" wherever I am, your opinion of the number and
state of our army, the state of the finances, the
temper of the people, the military operations, the
condition or prospect of the harvests, the price of
bills of exchange, and the rate between silver and
paper ; the growth and decline of the navy, the
number of prizes, the number, position, exertions
and designs of the enemy. Nothing which you
will write can come amiss."

These topics, upon all which in a more recent

268 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

war the public journals furnished most minute in-
formation to friends and enemies, were in those
days slowly and often from the necessity of the
case imperfectly discussed in the private epistolary
correspondence of men engaged in the civil or
military scenes of the time.

While thus far the narration of facts or the
opinions that were formed of them have been
drawn from the distinguished and eminent among
the friends of the country, it may be well enough
to turn for a moment to the letters of the tories,
who had sought shelter from the clouds of revolu-
tion, and were preparing to enjoy the sunshine of
royal favour.*

HARRISON GRAY.

Brompton, March 1, 1777.

Dear Brother,
Your's of the 2d August I did not receive until
20th last month. I congratulate you and Mrs.

* These letters are not addressed to Mr. Gerry, but they came
into the hands of the author carefully preserved among his pa-
pers, and must either have been sent to him as intercepted let-
ters or in some other way been delivered to his care. From the
place of their deposite and the endorsement upon them, it is evi-
dent he considered them as important memoranda. It is a little
remarkable that at that early period the most eminent of these
worthies expresses something like regret for having left the
JJnited States, and the other advises his son that it is best for him
po remain there.

LIFE OF ELBRID6E GERRY. >i;9

Gray upon her recovery from the small-pox. You
need Dot give yourself an} concern about the cord-
age which was destroyed. You may depend upon
it you will be fully paid when the government i^
ascertained of the fact. Admiral Montague will
write to his son, who is now in the country, rela-
tive to the affair, and will direct me what steps to
take. [Here follows some other details of busi-
ness.] I should be glad to hear from you as soon as
possible ; am sorry that you are in such low spi-
rits, but am confident that the glorious period is
hastening, when you will be emancipated from the
tyrannical, arbitrary, congressional government un-
der which you have for some time groaned. A
government for cruelty and ferocity not to be
equalled by any but that in the lower regions,
where the prince of darkness is president, and
has in his safe custody a number of ancient
rebels, who are reserved in chains of darkness to
the judgment of the great day ! Present my love
and affection to my two sisters and their respec-
tive consorts, not forgetting Mrs. Hughes, the
widow Gray and Mrs. Thayer, also Mrs. Gray,
my sister and niece. I add no more, save that I
wish you happiness here and hereafter. Believe
me to be with the greatest sincerity, your affec-
tionate brother,

Harrison Gray.

P. S. — My love to my son Jack ; be so good for

270 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

my sake to advise him, and be kind to him. He
has a great inclination to come here, but for the
present I think he had much better continue where
he is, if his person can be protected from the in-
sults of those whose tender mercies are cruelties.

JONATHAN SEWALL.

London, March 14, 1777.

Dear Johnny,
Don't be frightened at seeing a letter from an
old tory friend, lest it should come under the in-
spection of your high and mighty committees, as I
suppose will be the case in your free and independ-
ent state. I hereby declare I have never received
a line from you since I left Cambridge, August 31,
1774, excepting one while I was at Boston rela-
tive to two gowns which Molly H. stole from my
wife, of which I desired you to make enquiry, and
this is the first scrip I have attempted to you since
the said date, so that you can't be charged with
holding a correspondence with me. Thus much
to prevent any mistakes which might expose you
to the perils of tarring and feathering, Simsbury
mines, a gaol or a gallows. I presume it can give
no offence to committees, congresses, parsons or
generals, that I embrace a favourable, or rather a
possible opportunity of advising you that I am yet
in the land of the living, though very probably they

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 271

may all be offended at the fact; but to ease; theii
gall-bladders a little, 1 assure you and them, I
hope in God I shall not live to see the day when
America shall become independent of Great Brit-
ain. I suppose by this time you have entered so
thoroughly into their mad scheme, that it will af-
ford you no pleasure to hear your quondam friends
on this side the Atlantic are well. However, I
will mortify you by assuring you they are all in
good health and spirits, and government has libe-
rally supplied the wants of all the tory refugees
who needed its assistance ; and none here enter-
tain the penumbra of a doubt how the game will
end. No more does pious, frank, single-eyed,
conscientious Dr. Elliot, you will say. Aye, I
have seen his letters and compared them with two
or three conversations he had with me between
Charlestown Ferry and the college, not long be-
fore my flight. Well, duplicity may be justified
on some principles for aught 1 know ; but I don't
like it. I wish much to know how judge Lee
holds his health and spirits. Apropos. If you
have plenty of paper money, and it will answer his
purpose, I wish you would pay him £30 L.M.
with interest from September 1774, on my ac-
count, and present him and his lady my best
wishes. I should like to take one peep at my
house, but I suppose I should not know it again.
Sic transit gloria mundi. I shan't break my heart
about it. Every dog they say has his day, and I

272 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

doubt not I shall have mine. Ah, my old friend,
could you form a just idea of the immense wealth
and power of the British nation, you would trem-
ble at the foolish audacity of your pigmy states.
Another summer will bring you all over to my
opinion. I feel for the miseries hastening on my
countrymen, but they must thank their own folly.
God bless and carry you safe through.

Your's,

Jonathan W. Sewall.
John Foxcroft^ Esq.

GOVERNOUR HUTCHINSON.

Little Chelsea, Aug. 5, 1777.

Dear Kinsman,

I thank you for your letter and the information
given me of the state of several of my friends. I
had heard by way of Halifax of the death of Sally
Rogers, but did not know she had left a will. I
think Mrs. Merchant the properest person to take
the administration in the absence of the executor.

My family here is in great distress. My daugh-
ter Peggy, ever since February, has been wasting
in a consumption, and is now approaching to, if
not in the last stage. I have been with her in
different parts of the country ever since the 2d of
March, except five or six days that I spent with
her in London, and my attention has been so taken

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. B7J

up with one object, that I have scarce thought of
other less troubl(>s ; but all my endeavours have
been to no purpose. This is the will of that infi-
nitely wise being, who gave me so desirable a
child, and I am sure what he docs is right.

I think you did very right in remaining in the
country and not removing with the troops. 1
would have done the same, if I had not thought
that I was obliged, from the character in which
the king considered me, to go to England, not-
withstanding a temporary successor was appointed
to my government.

I wish it may be in my power to convince my
countrymen of one truth, (which I feel the force
of to my own great comfort every day) that I
never, in my public character, took any one step
in which I did not mean to serve their true inte-
rest, and to preserve to them every liberty con-
sistent with it, or with their connexion with the
kingdom. Whether they or I mistook their true
interest, time will discover.

If I ever recover from my present distressed
state of mind, I will write to you again, and make
more particular mention of my relations and friends,
but can only now desire to be affectionately re-
membered by all of them.

I am, dear sir, your affectionate kinsman,

Thomas Hutchinson.

Mr. Edward Hutchinson.
274 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER XVIII.

Members of Congress constantly employed Further Letters

Supposed hostility to Massachusetts on the part of some of the

Leaders of the Revolution Massachusetts defended Dis-

sentions in the Delegation.

The business, which devolved on the members
of congress, continued to increase in its burthens
with the progress of the war. They had not only
to provide for the future, but to revise the past.
Every thing relating to the military or financial
department had extended and increased. The for-
eign relations of the country assumed a more in-
teresting character, and the honour of a seat
among the illustrious leaders of the people was
severely paid for by the labour it exacted.

Under date of 14th January 1778, Mr. Gerry,
writing to a friend in Massachusetts, says, " Mr.
Dana has been ordered by congress on a commit-
tee to camp. He will probably be absent a month.
I am alone of our delegation, and the state will
lose its vote. It will be very injurious to the in-
terests of the government to be in this situation,
as will often be the case while the presence of
three delegates is required to give a vote.* I am

* The state of Massachusetts gave the right of a vote for the
state to three delegates. For the state's vote to be counted on

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. -'"•'<

worn down with fatigue, and have been waiting
with some impatience to return to Massachusetts;
but I have wished to see certain measures accom-
plished before I left congress ; when those were
finished, others presented themselves equally im-
portant and I waited for them, and so on ; but
this mode of travelling will never get me home.
I must therefore determine at all events to leave
this place in the spring."

But the spring came and the summer followed,
and still found him at his post. On the 24th
April he says, " I wish to sec a return of some of
my colleagues, in order to obtain such relaxation
from business as at length has become indispensa-
bly necessary for preserving my health. Two
years' constant attention to the business of con-
gress and the board of treasury, the members of
which have ever been unequal in number to the
duties required, with opportunity for very little
exercise, is rather hazardous to the constitution,
and I feel the effects of it."

Writing to the same gentleman on 2Gth May,
he says, " I had hoped before this to have set off

a division, three delegates must have been present, although a
major part of that number voting would cast the vote. Seldom
more than three or four of its delegates attended at the seat of
jrovernment, and the various duties of the members rendered the
constant presence of three in the hall a very painful inconveni-
ence. Some states intrusted the power to two, others to a sin-
gle member. On Mr. G.'s communicating these facts to the
Massachusetts legislature, the rule was amended and the power
given to add two.

276 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

for Massachusetts, but have not been able to break
away from the incessant labours which occupy me
day and night."

" I congratulate you on the late events in Europe.
What a miraculous change in the political world !
The ministry of England advocates for despotism,
and endeavouring to enslave those who might
have remained loyal subjects of the king. The
government of France an advocate for liberty, es-
pousing the cause of protestants and risking a war
to secure their independence. The king of En-
gland considered by every whig in the nation as a
tyrant, and the king of France applauded by every
whig in America as the protector of the rights of
man ! The king of Great Britain aiding the ad-
vancement of popery, and the king of France en-
deavouring to free his people from ecclesiastical
power ! Britain at war with America, France in
alliance with her ! These, my friend, are as-
tonishing changes. Perhaps one principle, self
interest, may account for all."

"Our friend Mr. Adams arrived here last week,
and is pleased with the appearance of things.
The currency is getting better, and I hope I may
get away."

The hope was fallacious. Public measures rose
in interest as clouds gathered in the political sky.
The danger from abroad was not powerful enough
to preserve tranquillity at home, and dissentions
divided those who were engaged in the common

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 871

cause of the country. Parties had arisen on the
conduct of the American ministers on foreign ser-
vice, and jealousies were excited concerning do-
mestic affairs. The latter were exceedingly gall-
ing to Mr. Gerry, because it displayed itself in a
desire to undervalue the exertions, the services,
the sacrifices and the patriotism of New-England.

" There are some persons," he says in a letter
to a member of the assembly of Massachusetts, "of
weight and influence in this (Pennsylvania) and
some other states, who have discovered a disposi-
tion on all occasions to traduce the eastern states,
and to represent the officers and soldiers there as
deficient in discipline and valour. In every action
where their own troops are concerned, they are held
forth in the public prints and public speeches in such
high terms of approbation, that a person not know-
ing the contrary would consider them the sole props
of American independence. The assemblies, I
think, are not chargeable with this, but the fre-
quent publication of such private letters will have
the effect of gathering upon some particular corps
all the reputation, which is the common property
of the whole army ; at any rate, it will excite jea-
lousy and retaliation, and injure the general cause.

It is much to be regretted that such local at-
tachments take place, and that Americans can
conceive that honour may be really obtained not
by actual merit, but by clandestine means ; but
since this is the case, there is due to our country

278 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

and its brave defenders so much justice as to send
down to posterity a true relation of their conduct.
Let their feats and their misfortunes be narrated
together. They have as many of the first to boast
of as any in the union, and as few of the latter
which have been attended with disgrace.

Let the assembly take this in hand. If the
praise due to our hardy and brave men is attribut-
ed to others, they may lose in time that spirit
of gallantry, of the reward of which they are de-
frauded, and begin to think they are what they
have been called, inferiour and pusillanimous.

I am afraid there is some system to depreciate
them, which must be met by a care to publish the
truth. If they are robbed of their just fame, what
in God's name have they to fight for ? As to sil-
ver and gold, our country is like the apostle, we
have none to give ; but what we have, let us give
unto them ; just praise for valour, courage and dis-
cipline."*

It was unfortunate that while this illiberal spirit
existed towards the Massachusetts forces, there
was not perfect harmony among the delegates of
the state. The arts of popularity, it was suppos-
ed, were too ostentatiously resorted to by one of

* A member from Pennsylvania boasted that he represented
the heart of the union. We admit it, said a New- England
member in conversation with him, and we know from the bible
that " the heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately
wicked."

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 879

them, who might well have trusted to his merit
for his lame.*

"Did Brutus," said a gentleman in a letter to
Mr. Gerry, "in the infancy of the commonwealth,

and before the army of tin; Tarquins \\;is Bubdued,
acquire fame and popularity by largesses ? No !
These arts were reserved for Caesar, in the last
expiring moments of the republic."

" I am sorry," said Mr. Gerry in reply, " that any
one thinks the condition of the country will not
present a sufficient harvest of honour and reputa-
tion. It may be better earned than plundered ;
and though there are some arts of acquisition of
doubtful propriety, that which adds to our own
store by taking from our friends or those who
would wish to be such, challenges the same epi-
thet in every vocabulary."

A letter from Mr. John Adams to Mr. Gerry at
this time has the following sentences : — "You said
something to me in one of your letters, which I
did not understand, that you had not approved the
policy of some, and therefore did not expect their
confidence. I don't know whose confidence is
meant here. It will be a long time before you

* When Mr. Hancock left the chair of congress he took leave
in an appropriate speech. A motion was made to present him
the thanks of congress for his correct conduct as president. A
previous motion was substituted, that it would be improper to
thank any president. This was overruled and the original re-
solution adopted, but the whole Massachusetts delegation voted
in the minority.

280 LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY.

lose mine. You must depart from those fair, vir-
tuous, honourable, benevolent and public-spirited
principles, or you must lose that sagacity and
judgment which I ever found in you, before my
confidence will be lost or diminished."

" What your conduct has been in congress since
I parted with you I know not, but some of your
votes that I have seen were more consistent with
truth, justice and sound policy than others that I
see on the same page. Pray let me know a little
of these things, and believe me with unabated
affection to be your friend."

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 281

CHAPTER XIX.

Letter from John Adams New measures of Hostility threatened

by the Enemy Commission for Peace Mr. Gernfs resolu-
tions on the Fishery His Speech.

Avoiding as far as he might the interruptions,
which jealousies and rivalship occasioned, Mr.
Gerry devoted himself to the business of his sta-
tion.

" I have not had time," he said in a letter dated
September 1778 to general Warren, " to acknow-
ledge your several favours. The pleasure of cor-
responding with my most esteemed friends I have
been lately obliged to sacrifice with other enjoy-
ments, but I hope to possess their friendship, while
silence is the effect not of choice but necessity."

MR. JOHN ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Passy, Nov. 27, 1778.

My Dear Sir,
I have not received a line nor heard a syllable
from you since my arrival ; but I know your in-
cessant application to things of the first moment,
and therefore presume you have good reasons.
Our enemies are still in a delirium, and are
282 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

pleasing themselves with hopes that Clinton will
be more bloody than How. Nothing is so charm-
ing to their imaginations as blood and fire. What
a heart must this people have!

The two Howes are in a sort of disgrace, and
now Clinton is to do wonders. The Howes have
returned, without laurels, with malicious tempers,
bloody hands, and the pleasing reflection that their
names are hereafter to be recollected by all virtu-
ous and humane men with those of Alva and
Grizler.

I think there should be a club formed in Lon-
don of all the sages and heroes that have returned
from America. Bernard, Hutchinson and Train,
Gage, How, Howe, &c. &c. &c. and to be sure
Burgoyne ! What a respectable society it would
be. How entertaining to hear them in turn re-
counting their memorable deeds of fraud and vio-
lence in America, and their glorious triumphant
success.

You will see by the papers, which I shall send
by this opportunity, that there is great animosity
in Holland against England. Sir J — , it is said,
flatters the prince with hopes of marrying his
daughter to the prince of Wales, and the prospect
of having a daughter queen of England is too
tempting for a prince to resist. Yet he cannot do
great things ; and there is a spirit rising in the
Low Countries, which will give England trouble.
The situation of that republic is so defenceless,

LfFE OF EMUHDGE GERRY J83

and they consider England in such a state of des-
peration, ready to do any mad thing, that I don't
expect they will very soon take any decisive part
in our favour; but the determination not to take
any part against us is decisive. They wish Ame-
rica independent ; it is their interest. They wish
to see England humbled. She is too overbearing ;
yet they are afraid to provoke England by any
open engagement against her. They have dis-
covered a manifest solicitude least America should
in a treaty with Great Britain agree to exclude
the Dutch from some part of their trade ; and they
have reason for this suspicion.

It is a delicate thing to negotiate with this peo-
ple, but we have constant intelligence from them,
and shall watch every favourable opportunity.
Their purses, their sailors and ships have been em-
ployed against us from the beginning, and England
could not possibly do without them. I cannot,
therefore, but wish that something may turn up to
awaken the old Batavian spirit.

I am as ever your friend,

John Adams.

Mr. Gerry.

Some of the expectations of the letter-writer
wrere nearly realized. His Britannic majesty's com-
missioners on the third of the preceding month had
issued a manifesto, in which they announced that

284 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the policy as well as benevolence of Great Britain
had thus far checked those excesses which tended
to desolate the country, but that there was a de-
sign now to change the nature and conduct of the
war. On the pretence, idle as it was, that the
United States, lost to England, might become an
accession to France, it was now declared to be the
intention of the enemy to pour out the phials of
his wrath, and by new means of vengeance to
render the connexion useless to his European rival.
" If it be a change for the worse," said an elo-
quent state paper of the day, " it must be horrible
indeed. Wherever their armies had marched,
there was ruin. The towns of Charlestown, Fal-
mouth, Norfolk, Kingston, Egg Harbour and the
German Flats, besides many single buildings and
clusters of houses had been given to the flames.
Boston and Philadelphia had been spared indeed,
partly in deference to the opinion of Europe, and
more because the destruction would be severely
felt by their friends. They have not hitherto
murdered on the spot every woman and child that
fell in their way, nor have they in all cases refused
quarter to soldiers, though they have in many ;
but they have seduced Indians and negroes to com-
mit inhuman butcheries upon the inhabitants, spar-
ing neither age, sex nor character. They have
thrust their prisoners into such dungeons, loaded
them with such irons, and exposed them to such
lingering torments of cold, hunger and disease, as

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 285

have destroyed greater numbers than they could
have had opportunity openly to put to death, it*
they had preferred to indulge in general slaughter.
Many others they have compelled to serve and
fight on board their ships against fathers, brothers,
friends and countrymen, a destiny to every sensi-
ble mind more terrible than death itself.

" It is therefore difficult to understand what
they mean by a change in the conduct of the war :
yet there seems to be no room to doubt that they
mean to threaten something more cruel, greater
extremes of war, measures that shall distress the
people more than any thing they have yet done.

" The object of the war is now entirely changed.
Heretofore their massacres and conflagations were
to divide the inhabitants and reclaim them to
Great Britain. Now despairing of that end, and
perceiving that the Americans would be faithful to
their treaties, their design is to destroy the coun-
try, to make it useless to France.

" This principle ought to be held in abhorrence,
not only by all christians but by all civilized na-
tions. If it be once admitted that powers at war
have a right to do whatever will weaken or terrify
the enemy, it is not easy to foresee where it will
end. It would be possible to burn the great capi-
tals of Europe."

Such was the picture of the war, drawn by the
great masters who had opportunity to sketch it on
the spot ; and it is well now to remember it,

286 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

not for the purpose of cherishing resentment or re-
venge against former foes, but for admiring the
steadiness of purpose, which induced the patriots
of that age to persevere amid such opposition in
maintaining the independence they had declared,
and to show to posterity the gratitude due to
these intrepid assertors of their rights.

In the front of the dangers which beset them,
congress solemnly declared, " that if our enemies
presume to execute their threats or persist in their
present career of barbarity, we will take such
exemplary vengeance as shall deter others from a
like conduct. We appeal to that God, who
searcheth the hearts of men, for the rectitude of
our intentions, and in his holy presence declare,
that as we are not moved by any light or hasty
suggestions of anger or revenge, so through every
possible change of fortune we will adhere to this
our determination."

The spring of 1779 opened with attempts by
congress to arrange a commission for negotiating
peace. The propositions of the English commis-
sioners, which had produced the manifesto of con-
gress, above referred to, in reply to the commis-
sioners' proclamation, had been indignantly reject-
ed. Their insidious attempts to bribe some of
the leading men of congress had excited universal
execration, and every man responded to the ele-
vated sentiment of Mr. Read, that he was too in-
significant to be bribed, but such as he was, the

LIFE OF ELBBIDGE GERRY. l&l

king of England bad not wealth enough to pur-
chase him.

But peace was too desirable an object not to be
pursued by all honourable means : and as the ef-
fort was hopeless bv means of anj power existing
on this side the Atlantic, it was determined to
make trial in Europe. It was believed that the
good fortune of general Gates and the formidable
influence of the French alliance would not be
without effect. The instructions to the commis-
sioners were lonjr and thoroughly debated. The
sine qua non of independence admitted not of a
momentary doubt, but on other points the differ-
ent interests of different members of the confede-
racy could not be concealed nor easily compro-
mised.

In the course of these discussions Mr. Gerry
brought forward his propositions for the security
of the then great object of New-England enter-
prise and industry, the fisheries.

He moved congress to come to the following
resolutions.

J. That it is essential to the welfare of these
United States that the inhabitants thereof, at the
expiration of the war, should continue to enjoy
the free and undisturbed exercise of their common
rio-ht to fish on the banks of Newfoundland and
the other fishing banks and seas of North America,
preserving inviolate the treaties between France
and the said states.

288 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

2. That an explanatory article be prepared and
sent to our minister plenipotentiary at the court
of Versailles, to be by him presented to his most
christian majesty, whereby the said common right
to the fisheries shall be more explicitly guarantied
to the inhabitants of these states than it already
is by the treaties aforesaid.

3. That in the treaty of peace with Great Bri-
tain a stipulation be made on their part not to dis-
turb the inhabitants of these states in the free ex-
ercise of their common right to the fisheries afore-
said, and that a reciprocal engagement be made
on the part of the United States.

4. That the faith of congress be pledged to the
several states, that without their unanimous con-
sent no treaty of commerce shall be formed with
Great Britain previous to such stipulation.

5. That if the explanatory article should not be
ratified by his most christian majesty, nor the
stipulation aforesaid be adopted by Great Britain,
the minister conducting the business shall give
notice thereof to congress, and not sign any treaty
of peace until their pleasure be known.

These resolutions were seconded by Mr. Ellery
of Rhode-Island. They were opposed, not only
by direct argument, but by all the tactics of legis-
lation, which experience in the art could bring to
defeat them.

It was not indeed controverted that the United
States had a direct and immense interest in the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRV. 589

business, which these resolutions were intended to
preserve, but the necessity, or even policy of so
bold a stand in its defence, which might protract
a most deleterious state of war, did not appear so
imminent to some delegates, whose constituents
were less engaged in this hardy enterprise, than to
the representative of the fishermen of New-Eng-
land. It was urged as perfectly unreasonable to ex-
pect that a war, begun for independence, should be
continued for the humble privilege of catching fish.

Mr. Gerry, who had grown up among the fisher-
men of Massachusetts, was perfectly familiar with
all the details of this business ; with its value as a
branch of industry, its importance as a nursery of
seamen, and its character as a constituent part of
the rights of his countrymen ; and he pursued the
object of his resolutions with constancy and cour-
age. He displayed to congress the importance
attached to the right in question, and its connexion
with the interests of the southern section of the
United States, not less in many respects than
theirs by whom the immediate business was pur-
sued.

It is not so much fishing, said he, as enterprise,
industry and employment. It is not fish merely,
which gentlemen sneer at, it is gold, the produce
of that avocation. It is the employment of those
who would otherwise be idle, the food of those who
would otherwise be hungry, the wealth of those
who would otherwise be poor, that depend on your
290 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

putting these resolutions into the instructions of
your minister.

He denied that it would protract the war.
Whenever Great Britain is ready to acknowledge
your independence she will be ready to accede to
all your other reasonable and fair demands. It is
not to be expected that she will incline to diminish
your boundaries either on the land or the ocean.
Show her that this is your right, you will obtain
it of her justice ; or prove to her that it is your
determination to maintain it, and you will secure
it from her policy.

As to our right, Mr. Gerry said, the God of
nature gave it to us. He made the sea the com-
mon property of all mankind in a more strict sense
than he had done the land. Land requires exclu-
sive occupation for government, cultivation or pro-
perty. But the great world of waters admits of
no national appropriation. Where the winds can
carry us upon the ocean, there we may sail, and
where we sail, there we occupy, and what we oc-
cupy we may of right use for the purposes for
which occupation is valuable ; and it might as well
be claimed by any nation to restrain us from navi-
gation as fishery. We ask only the right of cast-
ing our hooks into the ocean and owning what we
may catch; and to say that this is not the right of
an independent people, is to say they have pur-
chased a nominal independence, by affixing to
themselves a constant mark of vassalage ; for un-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 291

less the right is bargained away by treaty it be-
longs to us by inheritance.

If it could be supposed that any obstruction to
our rights originated in the policy of our all), it
would diminish the affection with which our great
friend is now cherished in the hearts of our peo-
ple. But before France had given us one encour-
aging word, the people of New-England had pour-
ed out their blood like water in defence of their
rights ; they had been cheered also by their south-
ern friends, but at first they had stood alone ; and
by God's blessing they would stand alone again
without allies or friends, before they would barter
away their rights.

If such a surrender could take place, the com-
merce of New-England will on the return of peace
seek British channels. It will be the object of
Britain to detach us from all commercial connexion
with our ally, and she will find her objects greatly
assisted by the temper of our people.

But if we insist on the right, Britain will yield
it to us. Her policy will assist us. After a peace
she will be desirous of our custom. She will not
be likely to crowd the terms of a peace that looks
disgraceful to us, and will be felt as oppressive.
In making any peace she will have done much for
her own humiliation, and she will do a little more
for our favour. It will be her policy, when she
is no longer our open enemy, to have us believe
she is truly our friend ; and by the liberality of

292 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

her conditions, to obliterate our animosity. Our
commerce will be of little value to her unless we
enjoy the fisheries, and any commerce with her
would without them be ruinous to ourselves. By
lessening our means of payment we must either
stop the importations of her manufactures, or bur-
then ourselves with a constantly increasing debt.

In addition to a vast mass of facts relative to
the number of seamen, value of property, course
of exchange and other details connected with this
subject, Mr. Gerry urged in the above language
the adoption of his resolutions, and was supported
by the whole delegation of New-England. The
argument had more novelty at that day, though
not less force, than the experience of fifty years
has proved it to possess.

In fifteen divisions of the house, on questions
by ayes and noes, the majority adhered to the ori-
ginal propositions, and rejected every alteration
that was proposed. But they were finally reduc-
ed to the following clause. " Although it is of
the utmost importance to the peace and commerce
of the United States that Canada and Nova Scotia
should be ceded, and more particularly that their
equal common right to the fisheries should be gua-
rantied to them, yet a desire of terminating the
war has induced us not to make the acquisition of
these objects an ultimatum on the present occa-
sion."

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 293

The facts which this motion of Mr. Gerry drew
forth were not without effect. They were fol-
lowed by full explanations to one of the ministers,
who negotiated the treaty of peace, and by his
intelligence, perseverance and firmness, and the
efficient aid of one of his colleagues, the common
right of the United States to the fisheries was ac-
knowledged and secured.

294 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER XX.

Appointment of a Minister to treat for Peace Conflicting

Claims of Candidates Letter of John Adams Francis

Dana.

The instructions to the intended minister being
completed, the next step was to make an appoint-
ment. There were two parties in congress, one
of which nominated Mr. Jay and the other Mr. John
Adams, who was then in the United States. At
the first and second ballot twelve states were re-
presented. Six voted for Mr. Adams, five for Mr.
Jay, the other by division among its delegates
counted for neither. Further proceedings were
then postponed. On the next day a nomination
was opened for a minister to Spain. The party,
who had supported Mr. Adams for the former
place, were desirous of sending Dr. Arthur Lee to
the court of his catholic majesty, and the three
gentlemen were severally placed before the house
as candidates for this latter appointment.

In conducting the affairs of the United States
in Europe, the usual consequences of a joint com-
mission had been painfully experienced, and colli-
sion, controversy and reproach had extended from
the bureaus of the ministers into the hall of the
American government.

LIFE OF ELBUIDGE GEliUY. 295

The New-England delegation were firmly at-
tached to Mr. Adams, whose conduct had not only
met their entire approbation, but could not he
censured by the friends of the other ministers, and
it was their immovable determination to preserve
for him the confidence of the country, which he
had eminently deserved. The balloting ended in
superseding Mr. Lee, and the appointing first Mr.
Jay to Spain by the votes of eight states, and Mr.
Adams to negotiate a treaty of peace and com-
merce with Great Britain by the votes of eleven
states. Mr. Jay subsequently received other
honours in this connexion, which by his fidelity
and talents he had richly deserved.

Colonel Lawrence, nominated by Mr. Gerry,
was appointed secretary to the embassy at the
court of Versailles, and Mr. Dana secretary to the
embassy for peace. In the latter appointment Mr.
Gerry was peculiarly gratified, as it gave him an
opportunity of indulging the feelings of private
friendship in the performance of public duty, to-
wards a college class-mate, an intimate companion,
a tried and faithful public servant, and a learned
man.*

* The journals of congress call these appointments secretaries
to the ministers. They were not so. They were secretaries to
the embassy and provisionally charge d'affaires. The secreta-
ries received one thousand pounds sterling per annum, com-
mencing at the time of* their leaving their place of abode, and
continuing for three months after receiving notice of their
recall.

296 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

It may be interesting to know how the minister
of peace and the secretary to the embassy ad-
dressed their former colleague, who was still toil-
ing in the great council of state.

MR. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Ferrol, Dec. 11, 1779.

My Dear Sir,

I have escaped the rage of the sea and the vigi-
lance of British men-of-war, and the treachery of
a leaky ship, but have got the mountains of Astu-
rias and the Pyrenees to pass, with all the snows.
It is a monstrous journey to Paris, at least three
hundred and twenty leagues. The roads, taverns,
mules and every thine; inconvenient, as we are
told, and the expense great enough.

This part of the world is filled with rumours as
well as your's. They talk much of commotions
in Ireland, &c. &c, but I can get nothing certain
here. The removal of D'Orvillier occasions much
speculation, but Duchauffaud is universally allowed
to be an excellent officer.

I can't see a ray of hope of being much employ-
ed until after another campaign in negotiations for
peace, but I see that some seeds may be advanta-
geously sown wherever I go. There are many
mistaken notions concerning our affairs, which

LIFE OF ELftRIDGE GERRY; 297

are easily rectified, and much information may be

given and received.

Nothing is of more importance than to give the
French and Spaniards just ideas of the resources
they may draw from the United States, by carry-
ins: on the war with vigour in the American
seas. They have as yet no adequate concep-
tion of the advantages they have of the English
in that quarter, in the facility of procuring sup-
plies of materials, artisans and provisions, at
a time when the English must draw all from
Europe.

It now appears to me very easy to reduce the
English in New-York. A superiour fleet, sta-
tioned at Rhode-Island or cruising on the coast of
America, or plying between the continent and the
islands, would cut off their supplies so as to ruin
them.

This port of Ferrol is a grand thing. I had no
idea of it. The works are astonishing. I find
much civility here, and many professions of good
will to the states. Some of the Spaniards have
not vet got out of their heads the idea of mauvaise
exemple, but when they are led to consider the
difference between their colonies and the English,
that there is no probability or possibility of their
ever undertaking, as the English did, to subvert
the fundamentals of an established government,
and the nature of their governments, which can
298 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

suppress in an instant the first symptom of dis-
content, they easily give it up.*

I am in great haste, your's,

John Adams.
Hon. Mr. Gerry.

MR. DANA TO MR. GERRY.

Paris, Feb. 26, 1780.

Dear Sir,
Here we are, after many toils and perils, both
by sea and by land, where I hope we shall for a
while find a resting place, of which we have in-
deed much occasion. The day after our arrival
at Paris we went over to Passy to visit the doctor,
who the next day went to Versailles with us to
pay our respects to the comte Vergennes, monsieur
Sartine and comte Maurepas ; what has since
passed of a public nature, you will be fully in-
formed of by the despatches forwarded to congress.
Our mission seems a little to have puzzled comte
Vergennes, as will appear by the change of opinion
respecting the publication of it. The last deter-
mination I believe is much the wisest. Why at-
tempt to make a secret of a matter, which has been
published in the Gazettes of every state in the

* Fortunately for mankind and the cause of civil liberty this
opinion of the great statesman had not the accuracy of his
general predictions.

LIFE OF EL BRIDGE GERRY. 299

union ? The court of London most assuredly can
have no doubt of the nature of the mission. ' Tis
best, therefore, perhaps to speak out plain to them.
Here we are waiting for the return of your senses,
but how long we shall wait for the coming of that
period, those who are better acquainted with the
stages of their disease may conjecture. Our's is
simple, but their's is most complicated, and seems
to threaten their whole system with most danger-
ous convulsions. It must afford matter of curious
contemplation to an American who has noted the
rise and progress of our revolution, to see the Bri-
tons themselves, when suffering under the abuses,
insults and oppressions of their own govcrnours or
parliament, and endeavouring to seek redress of
their multiplied grievances, and to reduce their
constitution to its first principles, obliged to adopt
the language and the measures of their former fel-
low subjects in circumstances not altogether un-
similar. A language and measures which they
then branded with the odious names of faction and
rebellion, they now proclaim to be peaceable, re-
gular, legal and constitutional. You perceive that
I allude to their county meetings, their petitions,
but above all to their committees of correspondence,
(of which you may read much in their papers of
this month). These last were engines, which
operated with more energy and consistency than
any others which were put in motion in the com-

300 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

mencement of our opposition ; they may be called
the corner stone of our revolution or new empire.
Little I believe did our friend, the first mover and
inventor of them, expect to see this masterly
stroke of policy so soon adopted by the people of
England, to effect the redress of their own griev-
ances. What will be the issue of the present ap-
parently serious opposition, a little time will show ;
but from the characters who take the lead in it, I
conjecture the great body of the people will be
made instrumental only of driving out the present
administration, and will be but little the better for
a change. They want the sage council of our said
friend in conducting the affairs of their commit-
tees of correspondence to the proper point. Let
us wish them success — I mean in arms. A civil
war there would give peace to us. On that con-
sideration alone I wish it may take place.

I find by a letter which I received the other day,
that you wrote me a little after my departure.
The letter is stayed to know your opinion respect-
ing it, whether it shall be sent on or not. I hope
you have determined that it must ; in that case I
may speedily receive it. I begged your answers
to certain questions of much importance to myself
and family. I hope you have or will give them
particularly. Upon experience I find myself more
interested in them than I imagined I should have
been. To be open with you, for I know I may
safely confide in you, I would say, when I received

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY. SOI

notice of my appointment, which \\ as soon follow ed
by your letter pressing my acceptance of it, foi
reasons which were well grounded, and had great
weight upon my mind, the matter that laboured
most with me was, whether the salary was suffi-
cient for a decent support for myself in Europe
and would admit of something likewise to be ap-
plied for the support of my family; the idea of
laying up a sixpence out of it never entered my
imagination. 1 knew I must gi\ e up a profitable
business, and wished only to come out of my em-
ployment as well as I entered into it. I have sunk
so great a part of my private fortune by the de-
preciation of our currency, as hath obliged me to
pursue with industry the business of my profession
for a subsistence ; and this necessity alone com-
pelled me to resign my seat in congress ; a place
of all others the most agreeable to me. I expect-
ed when I left America to be able to remit my
family about £200 sterling for its support, and less
I am sure will not answer, but I begin to be
apprehensive that I shall be disappointed in this
expectation ; if so, I shall be under an absolute
necessity of resigning my appointment and return-
ing home, but as I told you before I left America
I will fairly make the experiment before I take
that step.*

* It is impossible to read these well-founded complaints of
the want of a generous allowance without pain ; and the more
so, as experience has not yet corrected the cause.

302 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

I hope congress continue well united upon all
great political questions, and that the arrangement
of foreign matters has laid asleep all personal ani-
mosities and contentions. However, when expen-
ditures shall be laid before you, look well to them.
I am under some apprehension that heats will be
again raised among you, upon the arrival of Messrs.
Lee and Izard who will shortly sail in the Alliance
for America, for they say they have many matters
to lay before congress respecting certain foreign
transactions. You understand my allusion, and
you will not imagine by any thing here said, that
I form a judgment between the contending parties.
No, I am determined not to meddle in the least
degree with their affairs, while here. When in
congress it was my duty to do it when they came
before us, 'tis now the clear dictate of duty and
policy to keep free from them, and 'tis my firm
determination to leave all parties behind me. At
present we are at peace with all here ; we visit
and are visited without distinction, and if this
harmony is disturbed I believe it will not be our
fault.

I wish your constant labours in the general
cause may be crowned with all the success you
intend, and you must not suffer any vexations or
disappointments you may meet with to abate your
zeal and assiduity in the service of our country.
I know you have met with many, and I believe
you will meet with many more ; but I never yet

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 303

saw you give way before them. Perseverando
seems to be your proper motto. I wish you better
health.

And I am,

With the warmest esteem,

Your friend and very humble servant,

Francis Dana.
Hon. Elbridge Gerry.

304 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER XXI.

State of the Country in 1779-80 Correspondence with General

Washington Commission for establishing Prices Letter

of Sa7>iuel Adams of Judge Sullivan Rechosen a Dele-
gate in Congress General Arnold's Accounts Letter con-
cerning him.

Whatever might have been the general expec-
tation of peace, intelligent statesmen considered
it indispensable to prepare for war. It was their
maxim that among nations negotiation is best car-
ried on by displaying the means of offence, and
that respect is better obtained from an enemy by
possessing the power to enforce it.

There were others, however, who if they did
not entertain a different opinion, were yet un-
willing to act up to the requirements of policy.
They could not bring themselves to make the ex-
ertion and sacrifice which the condition of the
country required. Every where there was a list-
lessness and torpor among the people. They had
made great and wearisome efforts. Fortune had
crowned their arms, and a whole British army
were prisoners of war. This had been followed
by an alliance with France ; and from the exer-
tions of their friends they were willing to hope for
advantages, which their own efforts had but par-

LIFE OF ELBRIDOE GERRY. 305

tially procured. They were exhausted by the de-
mands, which had been made upon them, and
caught with avidity at the hopes of escaping from
additional toil. Victory, alliance and negotiation
might excuse them, it was supposed, from any fear
for the future.

The country was in a condition that rendered
any great exertion difficult, if indeed it was prac-
ticable. Depreciated currency, diminished agri-
culture, a cessation of the fisheries and loss of
navigation and trade combined to t;ike away the
means of aggression. What has since been aptly
called " a war of threatenings" fatigued the po-
pulation by requiring exertions, that in the end
added nothing valuable to the common defence,
and disheartened those, on whose patriotism as
well as personal contribution the country most
relied.

The necessity, nevertheless, of a vigorous pro-
secution of the war was not diminished, and the
penalty of a failure was to lose all advantages,
which the accumulated sufferings of past years
had acquired.

General Washington, impressed with this neces-
sity, had urged congress to prepare for more than
a nominal army, and had reiterated his opinions
in private communications to the principal mem-
bers.
306 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

MR. GERRY TO GENERAL WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, Jan. 12, 1780.

Dear Sir,

The requisitions to the several states for rein-
forcements to the army proposed in your letter of
18th November, are not yet adopted by congress,
and a further application from your excellency ap-
pears to me would be useful in promoting that im-
portant business. A report has been long since
made on the subject and been several times under
the consideration of congress, but an opinion has
been lately suggested, and I fear with too much
effect, that the number of men enlisted for the
war is already sufficient, and that reinforcements
are not necessary for an army in this quarter.

Should this sentiment prevail or the requisitions
be much longer delayed, we shall probably have
an inactive campaign if not greater misfortunes,
and renew the uneasiness of the court of France,
who last year remonstrated in very friendly but
expressive terms against the delays of military pre-
paration for that campaign. As the measures of
our good ally for the establishment of our inde-
pendence as well as those of our common enemy
against it are prosecuted with vigour, it appears to
me that we are urged by every principle of policy,
generosity and honour to be equally vigorous and
decisive.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 307

I hope the measures taken and such as are under
the consideration of congress for obtaining supplies
of provision, will effectually relieve the want of
the army, which I confess distresses me exceed-
ingly.

I am, sir, with every sentiment of esteem and
respect, your most obedient servant,

Elbridge Gerry.

GENERAL WASHINGTON TO MR. GERRY.

1If.au Quarters, Morristow.v, Jan. 29, 1780.

Dear Sir,
I received your obliging letter of the 12th. I
am sorry to find that congress had not at that time
made any requisitions of men from the states, as
it appears to me that the army without reinforce-
ments, by the expiration of the enlistment of so
many men and of the service of the new levies as
they are called, will be much more reduced than
will be compatible with our interest and policy.
It was in part from the probability, that such an
idea as the one you suggest to have obtained with
some, might take place, that I was induced to men-
tion in my letter of the loth of November, the
essential difference between an army on paper and
its real efficient force, and to illustrate the point
by contrasting the column of the present fit for

308 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

duty in the return transmitted, with that of the
total.

The hopes indulged from the beginning of the
contest to the present day from time to time that
a peace would soon take place, have been the
source at least of great expense, and they may
still prove so, and the means of protracting the
war.

There is nothing so likely to produce peace as
to be well prepared to meet the enemy ; and from
this persuasion and the effect you justly observe
the contrary on our part might have on the mind
of the court of France and also on that of Spain,
I think it would be right for us to hold forth at
least every appearance of preparation and vigour,
and really to do what our abilities and the circum-
stances of our finance may well justify. The lat-
ter I own is a most important consideration, but I
cannot judge how far the state of it may or may
not require retrenchment and a spirit of economy
or indeed inactivity in our affairs. You will, how-
ever, perceive by a letter to congress of the lllth
by Baron Steuben, that I have again mentioned
my opinion of the propriety of placing the army
on a more respectable footing than it will be at
the opening of the campaign without their inter-
position ; and that I have offered the same in my
letter to you, Mr. Livingston and Mr. Matthews.
With respect to provision the situation of the
army is comfortable at present on this head, and I

LIFE OF ELBRTDGE GERRY. 309

ardently pray that it may never be again as it bai
been of late. We were reduced to a mosl painful

and delicate extremity, such as rendered the keep-
ing of the troops together a point of great doubt.
The exertions of the magistrates and inhabitants
of this state were great and cheerful for our relief.

I haye had my attention much engaged by a
variety of pressing business, and must rely on
your indulgence to excuse an earlier acknowledge-
ment of your favour.

I am, dear sir, with great regard and esteem,
your most obedient servant,

George Washington.

The energetic prosecution of the war was ob-
structed by the condition of the currency and the
superiour value which every where articles of con-
sumption had over a depreciated paper. A remedy
for all this was supposed to be found in the law-
regulating the price of marketable commodities,
and in enforcing its execution by public opinion as
well as by pecuniary penalties. An extensive
combination among the states to establish a system
for this purpose was intended to be entered into,
and delegates were appointed by several states to
meet in Philadelphia for the purpose.

Mr. Gerry was at the head of this commission
from Massachusetts, and the patriots of that state

310 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

had great expectations from the labours of the
commissioners.

MR. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, Dec. 20, 1779.

My Dear Sir,
Last Saturday the two houses of assembly of
this state made choice of yourself and Mr. Osgood
to represent them in the convention recommended
by the joint committees of the five eastern states
to be held at Philadelphia. As it was a doubt in
the minds of some of the members, whether so
many of the other states would send their agents
as to make a convention, it was thought urudent
to leave it to the gentlemen who represent this
state in congress, to agree upon any two of their
number for that service. But it was overruled for
several reasons ; one was, that it was necessary to
send one gentleman at least, immediately from
hence, because it was supposed such an one must
be better acquainted with particular circumstances
in this state, necessary to be made known to that
assembly, and which are perpetually varying, than
any gentleman could be who has been absent for
any length of time. Some gentlemen were loth
you should be taken off a moment from your im-
portant services in congress, but all were desirous
of your assistance in the convention, in case it

LIFE Or ELBRIDGE GERRY. .'ill

shall meet. Mr. Osgood will set off with all pos-
sible speed.

I am with truth and sincerity,
Your affectionate friend,

Samuel Adams.

The disease wras too deeply seated to be eradi-
cated by superficial remedies. It required an en-
tire change of the body politic, which it was slow 1 v
though certainly tending to produce.

A letter from a distinguished jurist of Massa-
chusetts at this period opens to view another sub-
ject, which claimed the attention of congress.

MR. SULLIVAN* TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, Dec. 25, 1779.

Dear Sir,
Being very sensible that your attention to the
forming of alliances, raising armies and managing

* James Sullivan, born in 1744, early embarked in the
cause of the colonies, and during the revolution was a member
of the provincial congress and general court of Massachusetts.
At a subsequent period he was elected to the continental con-
gress, but in consequence of the state of his health declined the
appointment. For several years he held a seat on the bench of
the supreme judicial court, and having resigned that honour and
returned to the practice of the bar, he was in 1790 appointed

o

12 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

finances most solemnly forbids your devoting any
part of your time to private friendship, I can for-

attorney-general of the commonwealth. In 1807 he was elected
governour, which high office he held at the time of his decease
in the following year. Efforts were made by those, who agreed
with him on the theory of free government, to place him in the
judicial department of the United States on its organization
under the present constitution, and it was more to their mortifi-
cation than his own, that another eminent judicial character of
Massachusetts was preferred.

In the course of the various and novel subjects of political
discussion, in which he was engaged, he sometimes found it ne-
cessary to differ in opinion from those with whom he commonly
concurred, and this imputed vacillation produced an occasional
discord, which may be noticed in some of the letters of his co-
temporaries, given in the text. But Mr. Sullivan relied much
and properly on the energy of his own mind, and had the man-
liness to avow any change of sentiment produced by calmer re-
flection or better judgment. Marks of his astonishing industry
and prolific genius, qualities very rarely united, are seen in every
department of the public service ; in professional employments,
where he was crowded with clients ; in municipal and political
discussions, which he never neglected ; in the academy of arts
and sciences, of which he was an original associate ; in the his-
torical society, over which he presided till the pitiful malice of
party deprived him of the honour ; in numerous charitable and
humane societies, of which he was a member; in the Middlesex
canal, a work of daring enterprise, which he mainly contributed
to accomplish ; in historical, literary and professional works,
either of which would have given full employment to an ordinary
mind.

Governour Sullivan was an instance, not uncommon in our
history, in which the native vigour of superiour intellect tri-
umphs over the defects or the want of early education, and
against opposition and rivalship marches to professional distinc-
tion and political honour. Tt was not possible for governour
Sullivan to escape the tax invariably levied on eminent men.
He lived in turbulent times ; and as the character and influence

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY. 313

give the neglect you have shown me in breaking
our former correspondence ; but you will never-
theless let me intrude one thought upon you re-
specting our maritime jurisprudence, for it is at
this time of such a motley mixture of the civil law,
common law and of the law of nations, together
with our municipal laws, and so very expensive
to the subject, that 1 most ardently wish a re-
formation of the whole into a systematical and
homogeneous plan, and as I had the honour and
advantage of jointly labouring with you in the
first attempt of maritime laws in this state, there
may be the less impropriety in addressing you
upon the subject.

When our law was made for erecting the mari-
time courts, the temper of the people was such,
and so greatly were they enraged at the corrup-
tion oj* former admiralty courts, that a court of
this species without a jury would have met their

were powerful and imposing, which he brought to the aid of his
party, so in proportion was the violence of the hostility witli
which he was assailed. The eminence of his station exposed
him to the arrows of obloquy and detraction, but though they
might have fretted him at the time, they never pierced the inte-
grity of his character.

In private life governour Sullivan was distinguished for kind-
ness, urbanity and benevolence; for the easy manners of an ac-
complished gentleman, and the unostentatious piety of a serious
christian. The writer may be permitted to speak as a witness
to these titles of respect, while he discharges a debt of gratitude
to his earliest professional adviser, whom it is his pride to re-
member in the character of a most honoured and valuable
friend.
314 LIFE OF ELBRIDCE GERRY.

universal disapprobation ; but they are now fully
satisfied with the wisdom of all civilized nations,
in appointing one judge to try facts as well as law,
which certainly if he is an honest and able man
will give greater despatch and do more justice than
can be done in the present mode of trials.

Our yeomanry in New-England from the mode
of their education as well as from their common
and ordinary business, are good judges of the
common law of the land, but when they are called
to try causes upon the multifarious principles I
have before mentioned, they are lost in mystery.
Nor indeed can any one have adequate ideas of
right in those causes, but he who is able with the
closest reasoning to apply the circumstances to the
principles of law.

I hope therefore that congress will recommend
it to the states to drop the idle trial by jury in
these causes and to adopt a system similar to that
of some other nation, or form a new system by
improving upon those of all nations ; and then the
intolerable burden of appeals to congress or their
committee may be done away, and in the room
thereof we shall have a supreme court of admiralty
in several districts into which the continent may
be divided for that purpose ; and as the decisions
of those courts will be of the greatest importance,
it will be necessary that there should be more than
one judge to each, for one is more liable to cor-
ruption than more, and the skill and ability of three

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 315

may be wanted, but it may not be necessary to
have appeals in matters of small consequence, such
as seamen's wages and the like.

I would further suggest that as the courts before
mentioned must be supported at the public ex-
pense, it may be prudent to order a small sum per
cent, of all goods that are adjudged prize into the
public treasury, to defray the charges.

I am sensible that it is impossible to form a new
system, which at its birth will be perfect. Nor is
there any one of another nation perhaps, that will
so aptly apply to our genius and circumstances as
to admit of no improvement ; but if your supreme
courts consist of men of industry, ability and en-
terprising minds, they will from time to time adopt
such rules as may tend to the perfection of the
practice. But these rules should all be submitted
to congress, to meet their approbation, and that
the practice may be uniform throughout the whole
republic.

In cases of property claimed by the subjects of
neutral powers, a complaint ought to lay to con-
gress.

I will not give you further trouble on this mat-
ter ; the importance of it must before now have
engaged the notice of congress, and so great is my
confidence in their ability and uprightness, that I
think they can stand in no need of my assistance.

Be kind enough to present my respectful com-
pliments to the honourable Messrs. Holton and

316 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Partridge, and believe me to be, with the most
perfect esteem, your most obedient, and very
humble servant,

James Sullivan.
Hon. Mr. Gerry.

The appointment of commissioner had been pre-
ceded by the renewal of Mr. Gerry's election as a
delegate in congress, which in the November pre-
ceding was had for the fifth time, and continued
him as a representative for the year 1780.

The treasury board, of which he still continued
at the head, was brought constantly in collision
with rapacious creditors of the public, who, not
contented with the appropriation liberally made by
congress, contrived to obviate the losses of depre-
ciation by extravagant accounts.

The most daring of these was general Arnold,
who, having run a long race of profligate dissipa-
tion at Philadelphia, was desirous of covering his
deficiencies by a claim on the government.

The true character of the man had not then
been developed. He was known only as a gal-
lant soldier, whose skill and courage had been
conspicuously exerted for his country, and the
liberality with which such talents and activity
were then readily rewarded inclined men to a
favourable consideration of his claims. His ac-
counts were referred by congress to the board of

LIFE OF ELBRIDOE GERRY. 31«J

treasury, where a very slight inspection was suffi-
cient to .show the injustice, extravagance and fraud
by which they had been prepared.

The general relied on his military character
rather than on the accuraey of his vouchers. He
could not indeed, like Brennus, throw his sword
into the scale, but he was desirous that his pro-
fessional reputation should give equal efficacy to his
wishes. The chairman of the board of treasury
was acquainted with no arithmetic, which permit-
ted fraud or extortion to state an account current
in their favour, and the general's demands were
no sooner examined than rejected.

Angry and impetuous, he immediately made his
appeal, not in a very parliamentary way, to con-
gress, and in no measured terms attributed his
disappointment to the improper interference and
the unjustifiable influence of the chairman.

The reply of Mr. Gerry to this abuse, as impo-
litic as it wras gratuitous, calmly and dispassion-
ately stated the reasons of his decision, but having
disposed of the matter in controversy, he turned
with fierceness on his aggressor, whom he did not
fail to chastise as well for the extravagance of his
accounts, as for the folly of the attack, under cov-
er of which he had expected to carry them.

" If," said he, " the faithful discharge of official
duty, unpleasant enough in itself, is to bring with
it the liability of personal attack from men who
have neither honesty in their public dealings nor

318 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

courtesy in private life, it might be well to abolish
all guards upon the treasury, and admit rapacity
and crime to help themselves at pleasure."

The further progress of this dispute was arrest-
ed by the interference of friends who had influence
with the parties. The accounts of general Ar-
nold were reduced within a reasonable amount.
Congress omitted those expressions of its displea-
sure, which a regard for its own authority, vio-
lated by disrespect to one of its members, would
ordinarily have required ; and the general, obliged
unwillingly to put up with the severe remarks,
which his conduct had elicited without gratify-
ing his revenge, left Philadelphia for that station,
which will perpetuate his infamy to all future time.

The commencement of this year relieved Mr.
Gerry from that part of his duty in congress, which
had for so long time placed him at the head of the
treasury. A new arrangement was adopted, which
established distinct boards of admiralty, war and
treasury, on each of which were two members of
congress and three persons selected at large ; and
on this organization being made, Mr. Gerry, pre-
ferring his duties within the hall of congress to
the confinement, which this department required,
declined to retain his former situation.

LIFE OF ELBRJDGE GERRY. 319

CHAPTER XXII.

Remonstrates against a Decision of Congress Leaves Con-
gress and prefers a Complaint to the General Court of Massa-
chusetts Resolve of the General Court Remonstrance

The Deeisioii of Congress considered Pay of a Member of

Co7igress State of the Currency Letter from John M*

ams Mode of Living at Congress American Mail cap-
tured Mr. LovelVs Letter to Mr. Gerry published by the Ene-
my Correspondence with General Jf'ushington.

Circumstances now occurred, which terminat-
ed for a time Mr. Gerry's services in the congress
of the United States, and induced him to appear
in person with an appeal from their proceedings,
to his immediate constituents.

These circumstances, so singular in themselves,
and so inconsistent with the present better estab-
lished notions of parliamentary practice, we pro-
ceed to relate.

On February 19, \7i\0, congress had under con-
sideration the report of a committee for estimating
the supplies to be furnished by the several states
for the current year, and the prices at which the
several articles should be credited to the states
which procured them.

This subject was fruitful in vexation as often as
it occurred. Its adjustment determined the con-
tingent required of a state. It was in the nature

320 T/IFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

of a levy or tax. It was to be assessed if justice
was consulted on principles of equality, and that
equality was to be deduced not merely from the
wealth and population of the several states,
but also by a reference to their former con-
tributions, so that anterior inequalities of appor-
tionment might be promptly adjusted. With no
statistical tables every thing depended on the
opinions of members, formed loosely indeed, with
insufficient materials, but influenced, whether they
believed it or not, by a common wish of each to
shift the unwelcome burthen from himself to his
neighbour.

Massachusetts had by some means become jea-
lous of an attempt on the part of the other mem-
bers of the confederacy to load her with an un-
reasonable weight, and had frequently complain-
ed of being treated like a willing horse whom its
drivers were compelling to a fatal exertion. On
this occasion the delegates from Massachusetts
determined to oppose the assessment ; and when
the clause relative to the prices to be allowed was
under consideration, Mr. Gerry moved a recom-
mitment for the purpose of conforming the prices
to those agreed upon by a convention of states
from New-Hampshire to Pennsylvania inclusive,
held at New-Haven in January 1775).

This motion was objected to as being out of
order ; an appeal was made to the house who sus-
tained the objection, and the ayes and noes being

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

required by Mr. Gerry, the house refused to record
them.

This refusal gave great offence to Mr. Gerry]
not, as he said, as an individual or in his private
capacity, but in his public character as a delegate
from a sovereign state, and as affecting in his per-
son the rights of that state.

Unable to obtain a record of votes on the ques-
tion proposed by him, Mr. Gerry the next day ad-
dressed a note to the president, in which he very
formally set forth his rights] and insisted " that
the sense of the house be now taken by yeas and
nays, whether the motion he made yesterday was
in order."

Congress, on the receiving of this letter, " Vot-
ed, that any member thinking his privilege infring-
ed by any thing said or done in the house, ought
of right to be heard in his place."*

On the discussion of this resolve, it was moved
to amend it by adding, " and not otherwise ;" but
the amendment on a division of the house was
rejected.

This injection left it obvious, that a hearing of
the aggrieved member in his place was not the
only mode permitted ; and the resolve was, there-
fore, no answer to the demand made by Mr. Gerry
in his letter of 21st February.

Having waited a month without hearing that

* Journals of Congress, February 22, 1780.
322 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

any attention was paid to his demand, he again
addressed congress by letter, dated 30th April.
In this letter he maintains, that his motion was
strictly in order ; that on the question, whether it
was or was not in order, he had a right to the re-
cord of the ayes and noes ; that to deprive a mem-
ber of that privilege was a violation not of his own
rights but those of the state he represented ; and
that it would be his duty to secede from congress,
and to complain of this violation to his constitu-
ents, unless it was immediately redressed. And
he protests against any delay, which by protract-
ing the remedy until the plan, out of which the
controversy grew, should be carried by its advo-
cates. " That," said he, " would be a denial of
justice by a delay of it, and would seem as if the
majority of the house might at any time take off
the opposition of a member, by depriving him of
his privilege and obliging him to submit to a griev-
ance, or to withdraw from the house during plea-
sure."

No further measures being taken by congress on
this application, Mr. Gerry left Philadelphia and
laid his complaint before the general assembly of
Massachusetts.

The house, on a report of their committee, im-
mediately voted not only to sustain Mr. Gerry's
complaint, but to connect with it another of their
own on the unequal assessment, the discussion of
which had been the original cause of difficulty.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 323

The council were slower in their movements,
and probably thinking that the expression of opin-
ion by the popular branch had answered all the
purposes, which could be proposed by the measure,
suffered the resolve of the house to lie upon their
table.

This did not satisfy Mr. Gerry. In the Novem-
ber following, being re-elected a member of con-
gress, he declined accepting the station, and gave
as a reason for his refusal that the rights and
prerogative of the state had been invaded in his
person, and that no redress had been granted on
his own application, and no demand for redress
been made by his constituents. This intimation
again brought the matter before the legislature,
and procured the passing of the following re-
solve : —

" Whereas it has been represented to this court in several let-
ters from Elbridge Gerry, Esq. and the papers accompanying
the same, that by a determination of the honourable congress
he was denied a privilege, to which he was entitled as a member
of that honourable body according to their own rules and orders.
And whereas a complaint of so grievous a nature, when founded
on such evidence of the facts as is contained in the letters and
papers referred to, demands the serious attention of his constitu-
ents, and calls for enquiry to be made touching the subject mat-
ter of his complaint. Therefore

"Resolved, that this court approve of the high sense which
Mr. Gerry entertained of his right of privilege as a member of
congress, and that the delegates in congress from this common-
wealth be, and they hereby are directed to make necessary en-
quiries relative to the breach of privilege complained of, and
such representations to congress in reference thereto, as the im-
portance of the subject requires."

324 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The whole business was closed by the following
remonstrance and protest, which was presented by
the Massachusetts delegation, and by congress
permitted to be placed on their files. Probably a
more unparliamentary acknowledgment of errour
could not have been made.

Whereas the honourable Elbridge Gerry, Esq., a delegate in
congress from the state of Massachusetts, has represented to the
general assembly of the said state that he was on the 19th day
of February 1780 deprived of the privilege of a member of con-
gress, in being denied the right of calling the yeas and nays upon
a question of order, in consequence of which Mr. Gerry with-
drew from congress, and it appearing to said assembly, by the
journals of congress and by the letters that passed between the
president of congress and Mr. Gerry, that Mr. Gerry's complaint
of a deprivation of privilege was well founded, and whereas no
reparation has been made to the state of Massachusetts or
Mr. Gerry for the injury aforesaid,

The undersigners, delegates in congress from the state of
Massachusetts, do in the name and by express order of the gen-
eral court of said state remonstrate against the conduct of con-
gress for the year 1780, in depriving Mr. Gerry of his right as a
member of congress, as being injurious to the privilege of Mr.
Gerry and subversive of the right and interest of the state of
Massachusetts, in expectation that the present congress will or-
der this remonstrance to be lodged amongst their records, that
the sense of the state of Massachusetts relative to the conduct of
congress for the year 1780, in the instance referred to, the 19th
of February, may at all times hereafter appear.

S. HOLTEN,
NATHANIEL GORHAM,
S. HIGGENSON.

It was certainly a very singular notion that a
tribunal, possessing authority in the last resort,
could be amenable to any other power, excepting

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 325

indeed to public opinion, for the exercise of its
discretion; and it is not a little surprising thai

when it was so important to have congress stand
high in the public confidence, any measure could
be justified by so ardent a revolutionist as Mr.

Gerry, which might lessen its authority with the
people.

But the delegates in congress were considered
as forming an assembly of ministers from sovereign
states, rather than as officers of one common irov-
eminent; and although circumstances rendered the
union of physical and moral strength necessary for
the common good, the idea was never for a mo-
ment abandoned, that the source of authority re-
mained in the distinct parts of the confederacy,
and not in the confederacy itself. A feeling, if
not of state pride yet certainly of state power and
authority, which shortly after was a subject of
great consideration, controversy and alarm, and
which to the present time manifests itself on suit-
able occasions in some parts of the nation, existed
then in its primitive strength, and required only a
convenient opportunity for a very active and trou-
blesome exertion of its influence.

But whatever may be thought of an appeal from
a decision of congress, as it was then constituted,
to the state constituent of the delegate who made
it, there is equal cause of surprise at the decision
of congress on the principal question itself.

By the confederation, which was in the nature

326 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

of a constitution or supreme law, and wholly
beyond the control or authority of congress, in
the I Oth article it is expressly declared that "the
yeas and nays of the delegates of each state on
any question shall be entered on the journal when
it is desired by any delegate ; and the delegates of
a state, or any of them, at his or their request
shall be furnished with a transcript of said jour-
nal," &c. The phrase "any question" seems not
liable to a construction, which should exclude ques-
tions of order. Matters of great interest might
be incidentally but effectually settled under this
class.

Nor was the right solely derived from the
confederation. Congress, by rules of proceeding
adopted on 26th May 1778, provided, article 14,
Each member present shall declare openly and
without debate, his assent or dissent to a question
by ay or no when required by motion of any
member whose name shall be entered as having
made such motion.

The practice under these regulations was also
very well established. Two instances from a
number may be cited as directly in point. On
24th May 1779, a motion was made by Mr. Mor-
ris, seconded by Mr. Carmichael, relative to a
pension for those military officers " whose youth,
health and ease had been generously expended in
the service of the public." An objection was
made against taking this into consideration, as

LIFE OF ELBIUDGF GERRY. 327

being out of order. On the question, not whether
it should be considered, but is the above motion
in order, the ayes and noes were required by Mr.
Carmichael and unanimously decided against him
by states ; he and Mr. Morris being the only in-
dividuals who voted in the affirmative.

On 18th December of the same year, a question
was pending relative to certain contingents of
Massachusetts and Virginia, on which a motion
was made to amend, and the motion being object-
ed to as out of order, the question was stated from
the chair, " Is the motion in order ?" and the
ayes and noes being demanded, they were taken
and recorded accordingly.

The refusal of congress to order the ayes and
noes on the question proposed by Mr. Gerry was
therefore a clear departure from their existing
rules; and connected as it was with a subject of
hi°-h interest to the state of Massachusetts, was
probably supposed to betray somewhat of hostility
to the rights of the state, to which her inflexible
representative was not inclined to submit.

The taking of ayes and noes in congress could
have consumed little more time than a common
division of the house ; less certainly than ascer-
taining the vote of an assembly of two hundred
members who rise to be counted : but it began to
be vexatious from its frequency ; and it is some-
what remarkable, that while previous to this oc-

328 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

currence the ayes and noes were recorded almost
every day, and often many times in a day, the
public journals do not show an instance of a call
of this kind for the whole year 1780.

To give the entire history of this unpleasant
affair, the narrative has proceeded beyond the
time of its occurrence. It afforded Mr. Gerry a
relaxation from his public duties, and he returned
to Massachusetts in July 17<50, after having de-
voted without recess or intermission, four years
and six months to his official labours in con-
gress.

The first business, which claimed Mr. Gerry's
attention on his arrival in Massachusetts, was
the settlement of his public accounts. The mem-
bers of congress were paid by their respective
states ; advances were made to them from time
to time according to the liberality or ability of the
state, or not unfrequently, the popularity of the
incumbent. In this, as in some other respects
already adverted to, they more resembled a con-
gress of diplomatic agents than an assembly of
legislators.

The accounts presented from time to time to
the legislature of Massachusetts for allowance,
contained charges for the actual expenses of the
delegate, with a claim for a per diem compensa-
tion for the time occupied in the public service.
Every charge of personal expenditure, including

LIFE OF ELBRIDOE GERRY. 329

even the bills of the sempstress and the laundress,
are regularly filed with proper receipts in the ac-
counts settled by the several delegates from Mas-
sachusetts, as they successively adjusted them
with the general assembly of the state.

It may startle any one not conversant with the
currency of that period, to learn that the amount
allowed Mr. Gerry on the debit side of his ac-
count, for his entire time and expenses from
5th January 1770 to 5th July 17o0, amounted
to forty thousand five hundred and two pounds
six shillings and two pence, and that his daily pay
for attendance in congress was fixed at ten pounds.
The resolve appropriating a sum to defray this
apparently enormous charge admits the correct-
ness of the whole account, and provides eight hun-
dred and seventy-one pounds sixteen shillings, in
bills of the new emission, which with former ap-
propriations of twenty-three thousand two hundred
and three pounds four shillings and two pence
would be sufficient to discharge it. The rapid
depreciation of the paper currency explains not
only the seeming extravagance of these accounts,
but the arithmetical paradox that eight hundred
pounds and twenty-three thousand could cancel
forty thousand five hundred.

By the rule of adjustment fixed in a resolve of
the Massachusetts assembly, it appears that this
great sum of forty thousand pounds was equiva-
330 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

lent to a specie value of about four thousand dol-
lars.

Congress had very early made bills issued by
their order a legal tender in all payments. In
1776 Massachusetts had passed laws prohibiting
any depreciation of their bills, and had declared
that any person who should be convicted of pass-
ing the provincial bills for less than their nominal
value, should be declared ineligible to any public
office and should be fined in a heavy penalty.
Any person who offered his goods for specie at a
less rate than for bills was liable to be assessed
£20, and in all suits a previous tender of the debt
in bills was pleadable in bar. But the real value
of these bills was the ability of the state either
punctually or eventually to pay them in specie.
The estimate of this ability depended on the faith
of the people, and it has been found equally im-
possible to regulate human faith by law, whether
it regard finance or religion.

The harsh provisions of the legislature were
made only to be broken, or like all unwise laws to
afford opportunity for the gratification of individual
malice. In 1780 congress advised the states to
revise their tender-laws, and in the same year
Massachusetts enacted a law establishing a scale
of depreciation, by which the value of continental
paper was to be determined in the settlement of
accounts. It commenced in January 1777, at the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 331

highest rate, and ended in April 1780, with forty
for one.*

Some insight may be gained through the ac-
counts of the delegates, into the manners and modes
of men exercising the sovereignty of the American
empire, and exposed to the direct or secret offers
of the agents of the British ministry.

The supreme power of the country was in the
hands of less than forty men, tiring together with
the simplicity of a private family, indulging them-
selves indeed with the comforts of gentlemen, but
wholly abstaining from parade, extravagance or
luxury. The purity of their private life was not
less admirable than the patriotism of their public
conduct. There was a great want of money
among them, and the very limited compensation
allowed in the different departments of the civil

* The scale was adjusted to every month in the year, and
provided that one hundred specie dollars should be worth in
paper in
1778
1780

January
325
2934

February
350
3322

March
375
3736

April
400
4000

May
400
June
400
July
425
August
450
September
475
October
500
November
545
December
634
3 32 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

service, was controlled or suspended from actual
deficiency of means to supply it.

Among the letters addressed to Mr. Gerry after
his return to Massachusetts, by his companions in
congress, is one from which the following extract
is taken.

" Jemmy* has published a silly story about our

friend keeping Mrs. . Poor fool !

He does not know that scarcely one of us can
keep himself.

*4t* At* 4f. AU -'■'■

flr •n- *Jr at* tt

I now owe one hundred and forty-seven dollars
for board and some little borrowed of my landlady,
besides twenty-six borrowed for every day ex-
penses, and perhaps sixteen more to tailors and
shoemakers. How under Heaven am I to get this
with provincial paper, which does not pass here
for any thing at all, and is next to nothing where
it was issued ? You speak of my soon being at
home ! I own no horse, or I might ride away from
these great debts and ask charity on the road for

a delegate from to enable him to reach

home. If I could get there, what's to be done ?
I shall be without any income and without a hint
from any man that he will employ me in any way
within the compass of my abilities. Bad as my
present state is, it compares very well by the side
of nothing. I don't mean to complain, my good

* The printer of the tory newspaper in New-York.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 333

friend, for my pay is as much as my colleagues.
But I wish when it comes it would keep me ali\ • .
I suppose it is not wrong to serve here as a dele-
gate for a living, any more than in the church or
college, or a school. I am willing to bear pa-
tiently the injury the war has brought on me and
my family, in common with many others, but I
see no way of staying here, or living at home, and
I suppose I must submit to banishment from my
native province to some newer quarter, where land
is easy to be had, or education may ensure em-
ployment.

To quit all connexion with the contest in the
present stage of it, and to take horse and saddle
bags, if they can be got, in the hope of ' making
something handsome,' as the phrase goes, out of
credit, does not exactly fall in with my wishes,
though it may with my necessity."

The agents of the country abroad were not in a
much better condition.

MR. JOHN ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Paris, Feb. 29, 1780.

My Dear Friend,
This goes by the marquis de la Fayette, whose
military ardour cannot be extinguished nor abated
by the pleasures of Paris, nor the honours of Ver-
sailles, nor the profits of a great fortune, nor by the

334 LIFE OF ELBRTDGE GERRY.

charms of a beautiful wife, nor the comforts of
very fine children.

He took leave of the court in our American
uniform, and with his congressional sword, which
is as fine a one as any in the world.

I have but a moment. Pray remember us.
Give us orders to draw you know where. With-
out these we shall be in a few months, if not
weeks, reduced to go about begging or borrowing
of individuals, and be very glad to obtain a sub-
sistence even in this humiliating way, which how-
ever will have a worse effect upon the public than
upon us, as it will make the United States ridicu-
lous. Your's,

John Adams.

Mr. Gerry.

The Massachusetts delegation at Philadelphia
usually lived and messed together at some respec-
table boarding house. The club of wine, which
was assessed equally and charged in their account
with the state, shows a very moderate indulgence
of the pleasures of the table. Mr. Gerry appears
to have retained a private servant and a pair of
horses. Some others were without either of these
conveniences. A ride, a walk, or a conversation
party, constituted their chief means of amusement.
The absorbing interest of public concerns, the
constant vicissitude of events, the recurring novel-

LIFE Or ELBRIDGi; GERRY. 335

ties in political affairs, which every day presented,
seem to have furnished means for relaxation from
the duties of the hall.

The public mails formed a very inadequate;
source of supply for the impatient curiosity, which
was continually excited. Expresses were inter-
changed between congress and the army, at the
pleasure of its presiding officer, and were of course
intrusted with the letters of the members. Pri-
vate travellers often outrode the public mail-carri-
ers, and anticipated their intelligence. Newspa-
pers did not inundate the country. Thus the
channels of intelligence being uncertain, the
•searching after the latest advices, comparing dif-
ferent rumours, sifting true reports from false,
analyzing and determining the state of things ob-
scured by contradictory stories, and discussing their
probable operation, furnished sufficient occupation
for the little time not actually devoted to the public
service.

It would have been in vain undoubtedly, that
any pecuniary temptations would have been suffi-
cient to allure such men from the service of their
country, and it is not known or believed that a
single instance occurred in the whole progress of
the revolution, in which any man elevated by pub-
lic confidence in the civil department of the coun-
try betrayed the trust that was reposed in him.
Men as poor as Diogenes preferred the sunshine
of their country's favour to all the advantages

336 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

which the royal interposition could give in exchange
for it.

It is not necessary for the honour of the Ameri-
can character that direct offers should have been
rejected. The not making them is proof of the
incorruptible integrity which presided in the public
councils. The conduct of the enemy leaves no
doubt that corruption would have been used as one
of the weapons of his armory, if those whom it
was intended to strike had not been armed in proof
and mailed against its power.

Things happened occasionally to alleviate the
severity of those political engagements, in which
the members of the continental congress were
most commonly involved. A British mail was
now and then captured, and its contents were fre-
quently diverting to those who could trace the fal-
lacy of expectations in which the writers indulged.
From one of these some papers have already been
selected. In return "a rebel mail" was made prize
by the enemy, and the details of private corres-
pondence given to the world. These chances of
war were often the sources of pleasantry and wit,
though sometimes of graver feelings.

Soon after Mr. Gerry left congress an American
mail was taken by the enemy, and among the let-
ters it contained was one directed to him by Mr.
Lovell, his colleague in the Massachusetts delega-
tion.

The writer, Mr. Lovell, was a man of singular

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 337

character. His father for many years bad been
a distinguished teacher oi* the Latin and Greek
languages, and he had formerly been an assistant
in the same school. Deepl} read in all the learn-
ing of antiquity, he had failed to acquire that more
common knowledge, which conforms to the habits
or manners of the times. For several years he
had been a member of congress, and although
his patriotism and zeal were without suspicion,
there were not wanting those who were unable
to reconcile certain eccentricities of manner and
language with a perfect sanity of mind. Exact
and regular, so far as business was concerned,
methodical and punctilious in the discharge of it,
he often indulged his imagination in descriptions,
which, whether intended for romance or truth, it
was difficult if not impossible to understand. No
flatterer of the great he despised sycophancy in
others, and conforming to the plain manners, which
in his view indicated republican feelings, he was
not sparing of censure when parade or splendour
were exhibited for the purpose of observation.
But when his mind was excited it seemed beyond
his control, and the usual restraints by which
other men were bound, were as weak upon him
as flax upon the hands of Sampson. There re-
main many who remember the goodness of his
heart and the contrasted sternness of his manners,
the active benevolence of his conduct and the re-
pulsive severity of his language ; and who have
338 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

admired at one time his patient industry in official
duty, and at another the frenzy apparently without
cause, which lighted up his imagination, and seem-
ed to change in his view all the common objects
of other people's regard.

In one of those moments of hallucination, he
addressed a letter to Mr. Gerry, with whom he
was on the most intimate terms of friendship and
confidence ; and intending, if any definite meaning
was connected with the letter, to censure the ser-
vility of certain flatterers of the commander in
chief, proposed that there should be introduced
into congress the following motion : —

" Resolved, that general Washington be, and he
hereby is fully authorized and empowered to carry
into execution, in the most complete and ample
manner, such measures as shall appear to him best
calculated for raising and bringing into the field on
or before the first day of January next an army of
25,000 men, to continue in the service of these
United States during the present war with Great
Britain ; to provide arms, ammunition, clothing,
military and hospital stores and camp equipage of
all kinds, wagons, horses and forage ; to supply
the said army with all kinds of provisions and re-
freshments ; to lay up such magazines of pro-
visions, forage, military and hospital stores and
camp equipage, as he shall judge are necessary ;
to appoint such officer or officers in the said army
as shall be from time to time required ; to bring

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 339

to trial all officers whose conduct may render it
necessary ; to carry into execution such sentence
as shall be awarded by a court martial ; to call
forth from time to time such and so many of the
militia of these United States as in his opinion
may be necessary. And he, the said general
Washington, is by these presents required, in the
most speedy and effectual manner, to carry com-
pletely and vigorously into execution the powers
and authorities hereby vested in him, and to do all
such other matters and things as shall appear to
him necessary to promote the welfare of these
United States ; to draw on the treasury of these
United States for such sums of money, as shall be
required to defray the expenses incurred in conse-
quence of the powers to him delegated. And the
congress of these United States do, in the most
solemn manner, pledge themselves to the said
general Washington fully and vigorously to sup-
port him, and to ratify whatever shall be by him
done in the premises.

" Resolved, that the foregoing powers and au-
thorities continue, and they are hereby declared to
be in full force until the first day of December
1781, and no longer."

Further remarks followed, of an ambiguous and
equivocal nature.

This letter was intercepted and published in
Rivington's Gazette. The publishers were igno-
rant of the character of the writer, and annexed

340 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

to it comments calculated to produce the idea of
its being the confidential arrangement of a plan
hostile to general Washington. Unexplained it
had that appearance. To so serious an imputa-
tion on his own judgment and discretion, Mr.
Gerry would not lend the aid of his silence.

MR. GERRY TO GENERAL WASHINGTON.

Boston, Feb. 7, 1781.

Dear Sir,

Having lately seen an intercepted letter of the
20th of November last, written by Mr. Lovell and
published in Rivington's Gazette, I wish to be in-
dulged in making a few observations on the sub-
ject.

When general Knox was here, he informed me
that the paragraph of the letter, which respected a
person's being " popular," was supposed by some
to refer to your excellency ; but the date of the
letter from whence Mr. Lovell's quotation was
made, being a few days after the general election
of this commonwealth, must, I think, convince
every attentive reader, that the paragraph related
to a civil officer who was then elected. This will
more fully appear to every person acquainted with
the circumstances of the election itself, the popu-
larity of the officer mentioned, and the preference

LIFE OF ELB11IDGE GERRY. 341

I publicly gave to his competitor. If, however,
I could conceive that your excellency viewed the
paragraph in the light first mentioned, I would de-
sire Mr. Lovell, as I have not a copy of the letter,
to send you the original ; but should be exceed-
ingly mortified to find, that any transaction of
mine had produced in your excellency's mind a
doubt of my friendship towards you.

Mr. Lovell promised, in a former letter, to send
me a curious motion made by a gentleman lately
from the army, whom I then supposed to be
general Sullivan ; but no mention was made of the
purport of the motion, nor that it respected your
excellency.

The paragraph in Mr. Lovell's letter subsequent
to the motion is so enigmatical, that I have no
idea of his intention, whether favourable or not.
Indeed I have no reason to suppose the latter from
his former conduct, which has ever appeared to
me both friendly and respectful to your excel-
lency. But admitting that he has otherwise ex-
pressed himself in the intercepted letter, surely
the direction of it to a person unacquainted with
the contents, should not infer a suspicion of his
want of friendship to your excellency. And here
a question may arise, whether it is inconsistent
with friendship to receive a confidential letter con-
taining strictures on the conduct of a friend ? The
person in this case who receives the letter is in a

342 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

delicate situation ; for by rejecting the letter he
loses one friend, and by receiving it may disaffect
the other. Is it not the most eligible mode of
conduct, under such unfortunate circumstances,
to hear confidentially what one friend has to say
against another, and to endeavour to cure the ani-
mosity by a candid consideration and state of the
facts ? I must confess this has been my practice,
and it has frequently afforded me an opportunity
of restoring the confidence of contending parties.
If nevertheless any person, however friendly to
me, was publicly to reflect on the character of an-
other friend, I should think it my duty as publicly
to resent such conduct.

I have been thus explicit on the subject, be-
cause I should be exceedingly unhappy to find,
that the intercepted letter had produced in your
excellency's mind any unfavourable sentiments re-
specting myself; but should this be the case, I
shall still continue to maintain that disinterested
friendship and respect, and that affectionate regard
which I have ever entertained for your excellency.

I remain, sir, with every sentiment of friend-
ship and esteem, your most obedient and very
humble servant,

Elbridge Gerry.

His excellency general Washington.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 343

GENERAL WASHINGTON TO MR. GERRY.

New Windsor, Feb. 20, 1781.

Dear Sir,

The mail of last week brought me your favour
of the 7th.

Never having entertained a doubt of your friend-
ship, the trouble you have taken to remove a sun-
posed suspicion of it, would have given me con-
cern were it not overbalanced by the pleasure I
felt at receiving, in the same instant, fresh assur-
ances of your esteem and regard for me.

Declarations thereof on your part, require can-
dour and confidence on mine.

I do not scruple therefore to confess, that I was
not a little hurt by the implications and the gen-
eral complexion of Mr. Lovell's letter, and was
not a little embarrassed in determining upon a
proper line of conduct for me to observe on the
occasion.

Conscious that, neither directly nor indirectly,
no act, word or thought of mine had given birth
to the motion transmitted you, it was not a very
pleasant thing to see a letter published, the natural
interpretation of which held out very different
ideas.

The paragraph immediately following the mo-
tion is perfectly enigmatical to an uninformed
mind ; but from the context and other circum-

344 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

stances, must be supposed to relate to the same
person and subject. I have heard it did not ; but
the combination was remarkable, and its falling
into the hands of the enemy and being exposed to
public view, unfortunate.

With great esteem and regard I am, dear sir,
your most obedient humble servant,

George Washington.

Elbridge Gerry, Esq., Boston.

LIFE OF ELBRIDf.'E GERRY. 315

CHAPTER XXIII.

Visits the American Camp by order of Congress Letter de-
scribing it Elected to the Legislature of Massachusetts

Letter of Samuel Mama Refuses commission of Justice of

the Peace Letter of J. Jdams.

Although the circumstances already narrated
brought Mr. Gerry's services in congress to an un-
expected termination, they were not considered
by him a matter of personal offence, nor were
they permitted to operate injuriously to the pub-
lic service. Having been appointed by congress
on one of their usual committees to visit the army,
he availed himself of the opportunity of his return
to execute the commission with which he was in-
trusted.

The deplorable condition of the American arms,
communicated in a letter necessarily at the time
confidential, can scarcely be realized by the pre-
sent generation, who are reaping the vast fruits of
those services which were performed in misery
and wretchedness.

There is a certainty that the picture here drawn
is a true one, and we may well hesitate whether
most to compassionate the extreme poverty of the
country or admire the patient patriotism of her
gallant defenders. The darkness of the scene is
346 LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY.

not chiefly produced by the physical wants, the
cold, nakedness and famine of the army. Great
as were the sufferings, which the deprivation not
merely of the comforts but the necessaries of life
occasioned to mere animal nature, the sting which
they inflicted struck deeper in the mind. The
camp is the school of honour, pride and generous
feeling. It is the theatre too where chivalrous
and gallant spirits display the sentiments of their
nature ; danger is incurred with alacrity, for it is
the ladder of their fame; wounds, sickness, suffer-
ing are the expected companions of their adventur-
ous profession, and however unwelcome in their
visits they come not without preparation. In most
instances they bring with them, as some compen-
sation for their pain, the testimonials of honoura-
ble services, the marks of devotion to duty, and
the record of a claim to applause. But the wound-
ed spirit is no anticipated part of the sufferings of
the soldier ; that condition of things which de-
grades him in the eyes of his companions, strips
the battle field and the camp of all the adventitious
glory that belongs to it, and holds out to him,
who wields the sword of his country, only the in-
ducements which conscience can repose upon in
the justice of the cause.

This is undoubtedly the noblest, as it is the
highest and the purest principle which can fill the
ranks of an army ; but the history of mankind
shows how feeble it has been found, and how un-

LIFE OF ELRRIDGE GERRY. Ml

frequently it has been attempted. The band of

Leonidas were desirous it should be told at La-
cedemon, that they died at Thermopylae in obedi-
ence to the laws. Life in innumerable instances
has been exchanged for lame. But the patriots in
the American army were compelled to endure life
in humility from a principle of duty, to expose it
on the field as the bulwark of public liberty, and
to hide themselves in huts and caverns to escape
the jeers that might have reproached their poverty,
instead of meeting the plaudits that should have
sounded forth their fame. Among themselves,
the common victims of a general inability to sup-
ply either the food or clothing which nature re-
quired, there was indeed some relief for the officers
of the American army ; but in contrast with the
French officers who came supplied with all the
paraphernalia of a camp, the condition of their
affairs must have been inexpressibly painful. It
was this contrast which operated on the minds of
high-spirited and gallant men, and tended to re-
press that self-respect and elevation of mind, which
their profession inculcates. It was this which ex-
posed them to mortification in addition to actual
distress, and required an exertion of moral courage
far more difficult to acquire than the most distin-
guished bravery in battle.

They did indeed acquire it. For the great
cause in which they were engaged ; for the suc-
cess of that cause they submitted to all those evils,

348 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

from which military service is most ordinarily, in
a peculiar degree, exempt. But they looked for-
ward, it may be, to the recompense of success.
With an eye of hope they saw their country tri-
umphant, in peace, in security, rich, prosperous
and generous. They saw in distant vision those
free institutions established, which formed a new
epoch in the history of the world, and they con-
soled themselves with the belief that future grati-
tude would compensate for the involuntary injus-
tice of the day. Has the result yet answered
their reasonable expectations ? Has the liberality
of their country, has even the justice of their
country performed the duty, which they have a
right to demand ?

But we return to the times in which the follow-
ing picture was drawn.

MR. GERRY TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL
OF THE STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.

July 3, 1780.

Sir,
The communications respecting the army, which
at the request of the committee of congress at
camp, and of his excellency the commander in
chief, I had the honour of making on Friday last
to the honourable board, being agreeable to their
desire committed to writing, are in substance as
follows.

LIFE OF ELRRIDGE GERRY. 319

That on the 10th of June last, the army with
all its detachments from the state of Delaware to
the eastern parts of Massachusetts, inclusively,
did not contain above eight thousand men rank
and file.

That this number was continually decreasing,
by the expiration of enlistments.

That the troops had for a long time been par-
tially supplied with provisions, having been often
reduced to half and sometimes to a quarter allow-
ance, and that there were no spirits in the maga-
zines.

That both officers and soldiers were badly
clothed, insomuch that many of the former were
obliged to absent themselves on public occasions,
or make a disgraceful appearance, and that many
of the privates, in the most inclement season, had
been without shoes and hose, or even a shirt to
their backs, and reduced to the necessity of con-
stantly residing in huts to preserve life.

That in addition to their losses by the depreci-
ation of the currency, the army were five or six
months' pay and subsistence in arrear, and that
the hospitals were unprovided with necessaries.

That the quarter-master's department was un-
supplied with money, and the means of transport-
ation.

That great discontents had arisen amongst the
soldiers in consequence of their sufferings, and that
since December last, a number of them sufficient
to form two battalions had deserted to the enemy.

350 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

That from the want of provisions a dangerous
mutiny had taken place in two of the continental
regiments, and that it was suppressed by the
vigorous exertions of the officers, who with a great
degree of virtue and zeal had given up their ra-
tions of meat and subsisted several days on flour,
to reconcile the soldiers to their sufferings.

That nevertheless these expedients could not
have a lasting effect.

That the armament from France may be soon
expected, and that congress had given to his most
christian majesty the strongest assurances that the
United States would provide an army of twenty-
five thousand men rank and file, and sufficient re-
inforcements of militia, with full supplies of provi-
sion, to co-operate with the forces of their ally.

That should the states fail in these their en-
gagements, and in their intended co-operation, it
is highly probable that the French officers will
think themselves disgraced, and notwithstanding
the good will of their royal master and of his min-
isters towards us, be ever after irreconcilable to
Americans.

That such a misfortune would naturally tend to
discourage our friends, and animate the friends of
Great Britain in Europe, and that the latter may
thus be enabled to form alliances, which might be
attended with the most serious consequences.

That other disagreeable effects would naturally
result from a failure as aforesaid.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. :):>1

That therefore no time is to be lost in sending
on the supplies of* men and provision required by
congress and their committee at camp.

That to obtain immediate supplies of money, it
is the desire of the committee and of the general,
that the inhabitants of the state may be urged,
and associations be forthwith formed to bring into
the loan offices all the old continental bills of credit
in their possession, and receive an equivalent in
new bills at the exchange of forty for one, estab-
lished by congress.

That for every forty dollars thus brought in, two
dollars in new bills may, agreeable to the resolves
of congress of the loth of March last, be issued,
one of which being paid in exchange, the other
may be applied to the use of the public.

That the treasury may thus be supplied in the
most expeditious manner with a sum in new bills
equivalent to the whole of the old bills so ex-
changed.

And that by these means there is yet a prospect
of rendering the campaign vigorous, which cannot
be done by the slow operation of taxes, or by the
present precarious supply from foreign and domes-
tic loans, subscriptions, &c.

The marquis de la Fayette, in addition to the
preceding representations, earnestly requested that
clothing might be immediately sent on for the offi-
cers deficient therein ; that trifling as the injuries
resulting from their indigence might appear to the

352 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

public, it had certainly checked the ambition of
the officers, and by lessening their authority im-
paired the discipline of the army ; that he had
great reason to apprehend that it would make dis-
agreeable impressions on the French officers, and
would lessen that attention and respect, which are
so necessary to cultivate a permanent friendship
between them and their American brethren, and
that he thought, it advisable, if a sufficiency of
clothing was not made up, to send the materials
to the army, which could furnish artisans for this
purpose.

The honourable board will readily conceive the
impropriety of committing to paper some part of
the communications referred to, and give me leave
to remind them of the request of the minister of
France respecting maps for the squadron expected
from thence, and also to inform them that his ex-
cellency governour Trumbull requested me to state
to them that the Connecticut soldiers, whose terms
of enlistments had expired, had repaired in large
numbers to the seaports, in order to engage them-
selves in the privateering business. That in con-
sequence thereof an embargo had been laid by the
governour of Connecticut, for the purpose of filling
their battalion. That unless the states of Massa-
chusetts and Rhode-Island acted in concert with
the other state, the soldiers would resort from
thence to their ports and defeat the intentions of
Connecticut, and that therefore the said state was

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 353

under the necessity of requesting the other states
to lay and continue embargoes for the purpose

mentioned.

I would beg leave further to observe, that Rhode-
Island has complied with the request* and being
informed that the embargo of Massachusetts was
laid with a view only of manning the continental
frigates, I thought it necessary to make this com-
munication, which I had before omitted.
I have the honour to be, &c.

Elbridge Gerry.

Mr. Gerry returned to Massachusetts just at the
commencement of affairs under the new constitu-
tion. He found Mr. Hancock a candidate for
governour. Between that gentleman and his col-
leagues in congress, there had been a coolness and
want of cordiality, originating among other things
in the suspicion that his conduct was too much
guided by a love of popularity, and the whole in-
fluence of the delegation was thrown into the scale
of his opponent. Mr. Hancock nevertheless suc-
ceeded, and under his administration the new
government was organized on 25th October, 1780.
In the first legislature under the present constitu-
tion of the commonwealth of Massachusetts, Mi.
Gerry was elected a senator for the county of
Essex, and a member of the house of representa-
354 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

tives for the town of Marblehead. He held also
his title to a seat in congress, the time for which
he had been appointed not expiring till the end of
the year.

When it is remembered that he had thrown
himself into the election against the strong current
of Mr. Hancock's popularity, these proofs of the
confidence of his fellow citizens will be deemed
flattering testimonials of the estimation in which
they who best knew him held his character and
services in the public councils.

The election to the senate he respectfully de-
clined. His seat in congress he had determined
not to resume during the existing term, but he
accepted the appointment conferred upon him by
his neighbours and friends of Marblehead, and
took his place in the house of representatives at
the commencement of the new government of the
state.

This preference for the popular branch was in
accordance with his republican principles. It was
his desire in all political relations to keep himself
as near as possible to the people. The elevation
of the first branch of the legislature was according
to his notion a fallacious distinction ; not indeed
from any doubt of the propriety of a provision for
two legislative branches, nor on the other hand
from any popular talent on his part, which could
be better exerted in a larger assembly, but simply
from a belief that the will of the people could be

LIFE OP' ELBRID6E GERRY. 355

bettor understood, and the duties imposed on their
representative be better performed by remaining
in the popular branch.

The statesmen of Massachusetts were not desi-
rous in the progress of the institutions which they
were called upon to establish, to make; any unne-
cessary or startling difference in the forms hereto-
fore familiar to the people in the operation of
government. So far indeed as changes were ne-
cessary to secure public liberty and private rights,
they were made unhesitatingly and without oppo-
sition, but beyond that the spirit of innovation was
kept strictly under control. The dignity and in
some degree the ceremonial of the royal govern-
ment may be traced in the architecture of the
new constitution. The express recognition of a
distinguishing title to the two first executive ma-
gistrates, the common appropriation of another by
courtesy indeed, but invariably to the council and
senate, and the nonappropriation of it to the mem-
bers of the house of representatives, the forma-
lity of an interview between the executive and
legislative departments at the commencement of
the session, the set speech and separate answers,
which were undisturbed in the olden time, the
eminent citizens, from whom, whatever has been
the collision and fierceness of political parties, have
been selected as candidates for the chair, and the
official deference and respect, which have always
been paid to the incumbent, beyond that which other

356 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

stations in this state, or similar rank in other states
have commanded, are traces of the manners de-
rived from an early period of colonial history, and
which infused their colour at least into the repub-
lican government of Massachusetts.

Mr. Gerry inherited and cherished all the habits
in this respect common to the early patriots with
whom his political associations were formed. The
proper dignity of government was never relaxed
in his hands ; its artificial forms and requisitions,
though often with much sacrifice to himself, were
never omitted. In the arts of popularity, for the
sake of personal advantage, no instance can be
found in which he ever permitted himself to in-
dulge. To ascertain in what the best interests
of the commonwealth consisted, and to take the
path by which, in his opinion, those interests
could best be secured, whatever were its dangers
and however unpromising the reward, was with
him a principle modified into habit, from which
he never relaxed.

In pursuing the voyage of duty by the compass
of his own integrity, he sometimes had to encoun-
ter those adverse currents in the stream of popu-
larity, which drove him momentarily from the
harbour of respect and honour ; but it was his good
fortune, though long and anxiously the sport of
adverse winds, to find himself at length in his des-
tined haven. The certainty of encountering them,
and the hazard of a wreck never for a moment

LIFE OF ELBRIDGF, GERRY. 357

prevented his adventurous course ; and however
wise men might differ as to the correctness of the
line upon which he steered, none can douht that
the only motive for his following it must have
been a belief that it was right.

The senate, to which he was at this time elect-
ed, was suited to the grave, deliberate and ma-
ture character of his mind, and must have pre-
sented a prospect of more agreeable duty than a
place which would probably call for the lighter
arts of declamation and the showy decorations of
popular address. This selection of a station in
the state government, which it was permitted him
to choose for himself, is one of the occurrences
of his life, in which the public service predomi-
nated over considerations of a merely personal
nature.

While Mr. Gerry remained in Massachusetts
Samuel Adams had returned to his seat in the con-
gress at Philadelphia, and the separation of these
gentlemen opened again a new correspondence
between them. Another eminent citizen has been
called the colossus of the revolution, but the dis-
tinction, if merited by any one man, could with
singular propriety be challenged for this inflexible
republican. The most perfect disinterestedness
marked his political conduct. Other men were
desirous of the reputation acquired by bold or
great acts, and of being distinguished for their

358 LIFE OF ELBRLOGE GERRY.

zeal, their industry or address. It was sufficient
for him to do what was meritorious, regardless
of the reputation derived from it. Whatever of
fame was to be acquired, he left others, if they
might, to obtain ; whatever labour or danger was
to be incurred, he was ready to undertake him-
self. Devoted heart and soul to the great cause,
in which his country was engaged, he was will-
ing indeed to encourage any one in the same
pursuits, but disposed to honour those only who
engaged in them from the same noble motives
and the same integrity of heart. Many of the
wisest measures of civil polity, to which the times
gave occasion, originating with him, added to the
laurels of his associates ; and many of those im-
perishable memorials, which may serve as models
for the future statesmen of the country, are the
unclaimed productions of his pen, while the hon-
ours of authorship have graced his more ambitious
coadj utors.

Cool, dispassionate and collected, the firmness
of Mr. Adams' mind was a check on the too ad-
venturous rashness of the enterprising, and a sup-
port to the drooping courage of the doubtful, while
it directed the execution of the proper measures
with certainty, vigour and success.

Revolutions, it has been supposed, generate the
character they require. Mr. Adams was made for
the times in which he lived. The self devotion,

LIFE OV ELBRIDGE GERRY. 359

the assiduity, the disinterestedness of his conduct,

ennobled the cause lie supported ; and as these
qualities rendered him less anxious to acquire re-
putation than to deserve it, posterity is bound to
be the more just to his fame. He was not per-
mitted to witness the grandeur and glory of his
country without feeling that patriotism and public
services are not always remembered in the days
of prosperity and success. But distance is placing
the greatness of his character in a light for un-
qualified admiration, and a generation is arising,

" Whose sons will blush their fathers were his foes."

MR. S. ADAMS* TO MR. GERRY.

Philadelphia, Nov. 27, 1780.

Let me entreat you, my dear sir, not to think
me unmindful of the several favours I have receiv-

* Mr. Adams was a man of short stature and feeble frame, and
was early affected with a tremulousness of nerves, alluded to in
this letter, which at times rendered him unable to hold a pen.
The trembling, which in some situations had the appearance of
fear, was at singular variance with the boldness of his language
and the intrepidity of his conduct.

After the Boston massacre on 5th March 1770, he was chair-
man of a committee to wait on the governour, and require him
to remove the troops from the capital. The governour hesi-
tated, doubted his authority, endeavoured to make terms, ami
spoke to the committee in the lordly language which became, as
lie supposed, the viceroy of a king.

"They must go," said Mr. Adams, "if not by your orders, by

360 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ed from you since I arrived in this city. I hate
protestations among friends, and the making apo-
logies is so formal a business, that I know not in
what manner to begin it. Yet it seems necessary
that I should say something in excuse for my not
having written to you. Shall I tell you of my
trembling hand, and how unfit an instrument it is
to guide a pen ? I do assure you that writing is
on that account become painful to me. I am per-
suaded you never doubted of the reality of my
friendship for you, and I solemnly affirm it is not
abated a single iota. Let this suffice on the score
of apology, and permit me to hope that I shall re-
ceive your letters frequently while I remain here,
which however will be only till next spring. I
shall then take my final leave of congress and seek
that retirement from public cares, which my coun-
try seems to point out for me, and to which my
own inclination leads me.

I perceive it has been in your option to take a
seat in either house of the general assembly, or to
return to congress. I cannot say in which of these

the voice of the people." "Can we compromise?" said the gov-
ernour. " No, sir." " Suppose I send one regiment to the castle ?"
Mr. Adams, his countenance illuminated as if with the light of
inspiration, and his angry eye speaking the energy of his soul,
stretched out his trembling hand in the face of the governour,
and said to him, with a vehemence of voice utterly in contrast
with the want of muscular power, "Both sir, or none!"

When statues are erected to the great men of our country,
this incident might be well selected for the chisel of an Ameri-
can artist.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRT. 361

departments you will have it in your power to
render the most substantial service to the public
We feel the want of you here, and yet I think you
have wisely chosen a seat for the present in the
house of representatives. Many virtuous men
there may want the information which you may
be able to give them. Possibly you may have
much of the old ground to go over again. More,
in my opinion is to be done, than conquering our
British enemies, in order to establish the liberties
of our country on a solid basis. Human nature, I
am afraid, is too much debased, to relish the re-
publican principles in which the new government
of the commonwealth of Massachusetts appears to
be founded. Mankind is prone enough to political
idolatry; and may it not be added, that the former
government, I mean the last charter, being calcu-
lated to make servile men rather than free citizens,
the minds of many of our countrymen have been
inured to a cringing obsequiousness, too deeply
wrought into habit to be easily eradicated? Such
a temper is widely different from that just reve-
rence which every virtuous citizen will show to
the upright magistrate. If my fears on this head
are ill grounded, I hope I shall be excused. They
proceed from a cordial affection for that country,
to the service of which I have devoted the great-
est part of my life. May Heaven inspire the pre-
sent rulers with wisdom and sound understanding!
In all probability they will stamp the character of
" 46

363 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the people. It is natural for a sensible observer
to form an estimate of the people from an opinion
of the men whom they set up for their legislators
and magistrates. And besides, if we look into the
history of governours, we shall find that their prin-
ciples and manners have always had a mighty in-
fluence on the people. Should vanity and foppery
ever be the ruling taste among the great, the body
of the people would be in danger of catching the
distemper, and the ridiculous maxims of the one
would become fashionable among the other. I
pray God, we may never be addicted to levity and
the folly of parade. Pomp and show serve very
well to promote the purposes of European and Asia-
tic grandeur, in countries where the mystery of ini-
quity is carried to the highest pitch, and millions
are tame enough to believe that they are born only
to be subservient to the capricious will of a single
great man, or a few ! It requires council and
sound judgment to render our country secure in a
flourishing condition. If men of wisdom and know-
ledge, of moderation and temperance, of patience,
fortitude and perseverance, of sobriety and true
republican simplicity of manners, of zeal for the
honour of the Supreme Being and the welfare of
the commonwealth ; if men possessed of these
and other excellent qualities are chosen to fill the
seats of government, we may expect that our af-
fairs will rest on a solid and permanent founda-
tion.

LIFE OF ELI5RIDGE GERRY. 363

I thank you, my dear sir, for mentioning my

family so affectionately in one of your letters.

Oblige them with your visits as often as you

can. Adieu, and be assured that I am most

sincerely

Your's,

Samuel Adams.
Hon. Mr. Gerry.

On 31st January 1781, Mr. Gerry was elected
a member of the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences, then recently established in Massachu-
setts. In communicating this appointment their
secretary, the late president Willard of Har-
vard College, addressed him in the following flat-
tering language : " The academy is happy, sir,
in having had the opportunity of adding to their
catalogue the name of a gentleman so capable of
promoting the useful designs of the institution,
whose uniform and unwearied exertions in the
most important departments to advance the inter-
ests and secure the happiness of the United States
of America, must endear him to every friend of
his country."

In the same year governour Hancock put Mr.
Gerry into commission as a justice of the peace.
He had many years before received this compli-
ment from the provincial govemours, but he now
saw fit to return the commission.

364 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

In a letter to his excellency, he informs him that
it is sent back because he finds it inconsistent
with his convenience to execute the duties of the
office, and incompatible with his principles to hold
an office without discharging the duties it imposes.
The royal government, he admits, was in the habit
of sending such commissions as a mark of favour,
and for procuring an influence dangerous to liberty.
By multiplying their retainers they increased their
power, because patronage and dependence they
believed to be reciprocal ; but he hoped that the
evils of the old government would not be repeated
in the new ; that offices would be created only
when business was to be done, and officers ap-
pointed only when their services to the public
might compensate for the honour or emolument of
the station.

How far this unusual refusal of a customary
compliment, which if the governour had neglected
to offer might well have caused complaint, was
occasioned solely by the reasons that were given
for it, or how far it was considered a suitable op-
portunity of rebuke to his excellency, whose con-
duct in the chair had not yet conciliated the favour
of his rivals, must remain in conjecture. It had
the concurrence of those friends who were in the
habit of agreeing with him in political measures.

There was a party not very strong indeed in
numbers, but capable on most occasions of exert-
ing a powerful influence with the people, who de-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 36fi

precated all attempts to conform in any decree to
the parade, the pageantry, or the expense of the
regal government, and who believed that what
some considered the generous and hospitable con-
duct of his excellency and the proper conformity
of manners to station, was too nearly allied to the
idolatry they detested. These men were alive
to every step which advanced the patronage of the
executive, in whose strength, judging by the expe-
rience of the past, they always beheld a weight
adverse to the interests of the people. The ac-
tual operation of the state and national govern-
ments when administered by the people ought
to have changed the notions of statesmen, who
argued inconclusively, as it would seem, from the
manners of the royal representative.

The same disinclination to strengthen the arm
of the executive did not always continue to mark
their political opinions, and at no short interval of
time a complaint, the very opposite of this, most
frequently resounded. It did not long remain
concealed, that where the popular will is left to its
own operation, no exertion of executive patronage
or power within the limitation imposed by the
free institutions of the country, can corrupt or de-
stroy it.

Mr. Gerry, and many of his friends who pre-
ceded him in the executive chair of the state,
found it a very convenient exercise of their prero-
gative to bestow on others the same compliment

366 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

which he had refused to receive for himself, and
to reward that political conduct which gives a
man the character of being a friend of the govern-
ment, by a notice from the chief magistrate that is
intended simply as an expression of respect.

Concerning the influence of the executive power
it is not unnatural men should differ, as they ex-
amine it from different points of view. They who
are called to be responsible for its due exercise,
and who feel how constantly their designs are
misunderstood by the ignorant or perverted by the
wilful, are inclined to consider the fair exercise of
their constitutional rights as some counterbalance
for the prejudice, the hostility or the jealousy of
their rivals ; while these finding the executive sup-
porting itself by its patronage against the opposi-
tion they are organizing, are apt enough to con-
sider it as unjustly controlling the popular will.

On 21st June 1781, Mr. Gerry was again ap-
pointed a delegate in the congress of the United
States, to commence from the first of November
then next ensuing, when his former commission
would expire. But the dispute before alluded to
had not been settled in congress, and no satisfac-
tory measures had oeen adopted by the state ; he
therefore, in form, declined the appointment. The
legislature, however, would not accept this decla-
ration of his intention to retire from their service,
and with unprecedented civility refused to con-
sider his place vacant or to appoint a successor.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 861

Iii April of the following year, ho \\a^ again
elected a member of the senate of Massachusetts,
and in June was re-appointed a delegate in con-
gress for the year beginning in November.

Notwithstanding the pertinacity with which
these high and honourable oflices were pressed
upon him, he docs not appear during that year to
have much concerned himself with public duty.
His seat in the senate he never assumed, nor did
he accept immediately the more desirable situation
in the national councils. Private affairs to which
the decease of a relative called his particular at-
tention, afforded him an excuse for intermitting
his public labours ; and his constant devotion for
many years preceding to the service of his coun-
try, was accepted by his fellow-citizens as an
apology for not repairing to those posts of honour
and confidence, which their partiality continued to
assign to him.

But in addition to the reasons above alluded to,
some dissatisfaction was felt by Mr. Gerry that at
this time the cause of his leaving congress had not
been settled, and some displeasure was entertain-
ed towards the existing government of the state.
Feeling that under these circumstances the useful-
ness of his exertions might be limited, and little
desirous of public ofiice for personal gratification,
he was inclined to consider that for him, at that
moment, " the post of honour was a private sta-
tion."

368 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

MR. JOHN ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

The Hague, July 2, 1782.

Dear Sir,

Well ! how do you find yourself after a little
repose ? Are you married ? Or making fortune in
trade ? Or still busied in politics and public good ?
I am in a longing condition for your letters, be-
cause they used to give me the most comprehen-
sive ideas of affairs. You ought to remember me,
for it was you who sent me abroad in quest of ad-
ventures which have ruined me, de fond en comblc.
I am worn out and broken to pieces ; but can still
laugh at the folly and ill-nature of the world.

I can tell you no news. The Mynheers have
received us with open arms at last. If they should
not do much for us they have increased our repu-
tation, and they have bound themselves to do no-
thing against us, which is a great point gained.
The open, public manner in which all has been
conducted, redounds much to our honour.

The news must be divided into that which re-
spects war, and that which respects peace. The
war in Europe is wholly maritime. The combined
fleet sailed from Cadiz the 4th June, and has not
been heard of since. It is expected in the chan-
nel to be joined by the Dutch and by other French
ships from Brest. But some begin to suspect,
that Cordova is gone to Jamaica or New-York.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 3G9

If they come to the channel, the English cannot
meet them ; they must skulk into Torbay, &c.
Certain little intrigues, from certain individuals
in Russia and Denmark, make some suspect that
these powers wish to favour England, but they
can do nothing. They all ajjree that the Ameri-
can question is decided ; but say there are so
many pretensions against England, that she should
be favoured a little. Ireland has carried points
*•' for the present, which will be the foundation of a
war between them and England hereafter.

Mr. Grenville is at Paris, and after a long time
has obtained power to treat with all the belliger-
ent powers ; but as the English don't allow us to
be a power, they mean to chicane, to raise the
stocks, to get money and to lull the sailors into
tranquillity, that they may press them without
suspicion. I have no faith in the success of this
negotiation for peace, but wish I may be deceived.

What is become of the American navy ? Is it
the system to let it die ? This is not prudent.
Howr does your constitution work and your gov-
ernours, &c. behave ? Does all play well like a
good instrument of music ?

I hope you go to congress again. Jackson and
Lovell I find are going. These are good hands ;
but there is a Parsons that 1 want to go. If you
and Sullivan, Jackson and Lovell, «k.c. go, Massa-
chusetts will be highly represented. We must
send our best men there. That is the great
370 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

wheel. The governour himself, councillors, sena-
tors, judges, all ought to consider it as honourable
to go to congress. We should be very careful to
send no mean men there.

I fancy that in America the task will not be
difficult. There are three subjects, which ought
to be attended to above all things ; finance, a navy,
and foreign affairs. These subjects are not yet
generally well understood, and their immense im-
portance is not discerned. If we do not maintain
an independence in our foreign politics, if we do
not avoid frivolity, intrigue and chicane, and rest
upon our proper basis, reason and right, our pos-
terity will have reason to regret it for ages, and
forever. We shall be made the sport. We are
not and never shall be a match for them in pomp
and magnificence, intrigues of pleasure, bribes
and corruption, and the moment we tolerate this
method in our ministers, we are hurried down a
torrent. Whereas it is the easiest thing in the
world to make ourselves respected, by standing
upon national interests.

In time we shall have courage equal to our
strength. It is worth while to go abroad, to see
by what men this world is governed, — and by
what women !

Adieu, my dear friend, remember me.

John Adams.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 371

MR. JOHN ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Paris, Dec. 14, 1782.

Thanks be to God, my dear Gerry, that our Tom
Cod are safe in spite of the malice of enemies,
the finesse of allies, and the mistakes of congress.

The fisheries were attacked through my sides,
but they have not been wounded. We have ob-
tained an explicit acknowledgment of our right to
all the fisheries, and the most unlimited liberty to
catch fish, and liberty to dry them on Nova Scotia,
Magdalen Islands, and Labrador. We are only
restrained from drying on Newfoundland. This
article cost us all the industry, all the skill and
address that we were masters of. We omitted no
argument to convince the English ministry, that it
was their interest to secure it to us. But the ar-
gument that depriving us of it would be a certain
source of another war, was strengthened a great
deal by the evidence there is, that the French
minister was very willing that this bone of con-
tention should be left.

Sa^adahock is safe too as far as St. Croix.
The navigation of the Mississippi and the western
lands as far as the great lakes is ours too, unless
Spain should defeat us, which I hope will not be.

Was it perceived in America that I was attack-
ed as standing in the way of certain views upon

372 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the western lands and the fishery ? And was I
given up ? Was my commission to make a treaty
of commerce with the king of Great Britain at-
tacked, because of my instructions not to make
such a treaty without an express article in the
treaty of peace acknowledging our right to the
fishery ? And were congress either so incapable of
penetrating into a little finesse, or so indifferent
about the fishery ? And in the name of God was
there a New-England man, or a New-England
state, in this predicament ? British finesse did not
use to impose upon any Americans, much less
yankees. French finesse has been more success-
ful for a time, but in the end has been defeated,
very fairly and honestly defeated. Undisciplined
marines as we were, we were better tacticians than
was imagined.

I congratulate you upon the event, and shall
ever be your friend.

John Adams.

Mr. Gerry.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 373

CHAPTER XXIV.

Letter from Mr. Dana Resumes his Seat in Congress

Letters of J. Adams Peace Committee to consider its

Terms Interviews between Congress and General Washing-
ton The Minister of France The Marquis de la Fa-
yette State of Public Affairs Salaries.

It was not with the consent of his friends that
Mr. Gerry withdrew from the calls of the com-
munity. Mr. Dana wrote as follows from St. Pe-
tersburg, 20th November 17U2 : " Your letter of
13th June reached me on the 20th of last month,
and did my heart much good. The reasons which
have held you in private life of late, I can conjec-
ture without an interview with you ; but so far from
serving for your justification, they operate in my
mind strongly against you. You have pointed out
enough to me to show that till we have made peace
we have but half done our work ; and will you,
who have taken so distinguished a part in our
great revolution, and whom opposition and dan-
gers ever made more zealous and active, retire
from public life during the contest, because certain
vices too often attendant upon all administrations,
seem to be prevalent ? No, my friend, you ought
to step forth again and labour to rectify what you
deem amiss. Perseverance will always gain some-

374 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

thing. I have seen striking instances of this in
your conduct. Take courage then, and abandon
nothing which ought to be maintained. Occasions
will present themselves when you may do much
good. You can have no right to be in private life
in these times. You are an independent citizen
of a free republic, and well know the duties which
result from such a station in the community."

Yielding to the wishes of personal and political
friends, and satisfied at length with the measures
adopted on the subject of his remonstrance, Mr.
Gerry resumed his seat in the congress of 1783.

MR. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Paris, Aug. 15, 1783.

My Dear Friend,

I have heard no news with more pleasure, than
that of your design to go again to congress, and
nothing I hope has happened to divert you from
your purpose. I have lost all my correspondents
in congress, and know little what passes there.
The journals are not sent us, as I think they ought
to be, regularly.

By a letter from Mr. Arthur Lee to my wife, I
am informed that the committee had reported in
favour of my resignation, and Mr. Lee thought I
might depend upon the report being accepted.

LIFE OF ELBJUDGF GERRY. 375

But it does not arrive here. We have now a pros-
pect of signing the definitive treaty, in nothing
variant from the provisional one, very soon, as the
ratifications of the latter are already exchanged,
and France, Spain, England and America are
agreed. The Dutch, I presume, will sign at the
same time, but not with a good will. We have
consentecf that the imperial courts should sign, by
their ministers, as mediators, but the English have
not yet consented, and probably will not. We
are ready to sign, with or without a mediation, as
the English please.

I believe the English have been endeavouring
to persuade the French and Spaniards to sign
without us and the Dutch. Never wras there a
more foolish project. The comte de Vergennes
absolutely refused. Here he showed he had more
sense than they. This absurdity of the English
is the more astonishing, as the comte de Vergennes
had said to Dr. Franklin and Mr. Hartley together,
within three days after his arrival here, " II Jaut
que nous finissions tous ensemble." But they are
become a blundering race. The doctrine they
now set up is that the provisional treaty was to
be, and will be of itself a definitive treaty, the in-
stant the definitive treaty is signed with France,
as it became a preliminary treaty, when the pre-
liminaries were signed with France. This doc-
trine may be true and just, but it is not the less
expedient to have the solemnities and forms of a

376 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

definitive treaty in our affair, than in that of the
other nations.

We have long foreseen that we should not ob-
tain any additional advantages or further explana-
tions in the definitive treaty, from the present
ministry. They have committed themselves in
parliament, by disapproving the articles, and they
stand upon so precarious ground, that making the
least concession further to us, without twice its
value from us in exchange, would excite a clamour
against them, and cost them their places. Thus
we have no choice left. We must finish as we
began, or not finish at all. Wait another session
of parliament, and run all the risks, which ac-
company delay, at a time when the political hori-
zon is very cloudy.

We have long since made to Mr. Hartley, and
he has transmitted a variety of propositions, but
his principals have consented to none of them, and
we have the best reasons to believe, that this min-
istry never will, because such consent would lose
them their places. Unhappily, when you reason
with European ministers of state, you need
be less anxious to enquire whether measures
are for the good of their country or not, than
whether they are likely to preserve or forfeit their
places.

If you send a commission to make a treaty with
Denmark or Portugal, or any other power, with-
out sending a minister to the court, I wish you

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GFKRY. !77

would insert in it all your ministers in Europe,

and give the power to all or any number, or any
one, who may be upon the spot pointed out for
the negotiation, exactly as you have provided in
the commission for peace ; this is of great import-
ance, and is but exact equity. I think your
method should be to resolve upon granting the
commission, and then proceed to choose the min-
isters to be named in it, as you do in all other
cases, and let them stand in the commission in the
order as they are chosen. I expect myself the
acceptance of my resignation, and therefore shall
not in that case be one to be inserted, but Mr.
Jay, Mr. Laurens and Mr. Dana ought to be in-
serted, if they stay in Europe, if it is only to show
respect to their characters and give reputation to
their names. If Mr. Laurens and Mr. Dana go
home as well as I, Mr. Jay ought to be inserted,
who is very able and very willing to serve you,
and who in the present circumstances wants, as
well as all your faithful ministers, all the support
which congress can give them. You will never
have another honest minister trumpeted by the
court where he is. Dr. Franklin alone is, and will
be trumpeted, by the commis at Versailles, and
their tools.

Let me beg of you my good friend to write me,
and order your letters to be delivered to Mr. Jay,
and opened, or burnt by him, as you please, in
4«

378 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

case I should be absent from Europe. With great
affection jour old friend,

John Adams.
Elbridge Gerry, Esq.

Again Mr. Adams writes, " more depends on
good men at the great wheel than our people at
the northward are aware. That is the place to
guard against foreign projects, which will address
themselves sometimes to aristocratical, sometimes
to democratical, and sometimes to military pas-
sions and prejudices."

The period of Mr. Gerry's absence had pro-
duced great changes in the members of congress,
and not less in the manner of conducting public
business. Peace took off the excitement, which
had formerly produced such devotion to the
country, and as the scene of actual hostility was
removed, the ready spirit of resistance gradually
died away.

It was with difficulty that a quorum of delegates
could be convened, and when the requisite number
had arrived at the seat of government the business
of the session was interrupted, because they were
not in their places.

If however the character of public affairs had
undergone a change, their importance had in no
degree diminished. There was more alarm when

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 379

the enemy was at the gate, but not the more dan-
ger. The contest had been successful, and the
foreign foe was defeated, but domestic enemies,
not the less formidable because they were not in
military array, multiplied in every quarter of the
country. An exhausted people, made so by exer-
tions beyond their ability, were discontented and
unhappy. Cities depopulated, towns pillaged, the
country laid waste, agriculture deprived of her la-
bourers, navigation obstructed, manufactures and
the mechanic arts languishing, violated public faith
and imminent national bankruptcy were the new
enemies with whom congress had now to contend.
But the pomp and circumstance of war, which
raise the enthusiasm it requires, no longer mar-
tialled them on their way. The whole nation
resembled a triumphant army, whose progress after
victory may be tracked by the blood even of the
conquerors, and the painful spectacle of wounds,
hospitals and death.

As congress had before put in requisition the
physical resources, they had now to array the
moral force of the people, and to bring them in
this harder controversy to those indispensable sa-
crifices, which have the real merit of patriotism
without its ostensible reward.

For this their means were as limited as those,
by which they had carried on the war. Their
power was that of influence, rather than authority ;
and their reliance was placed not on their right of

380 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

coercion, but on the intelligence and virtue of the
people.

Seeing the inefficiency of the government as
one of authority, and believing it best it should be
so as a security for freedom, a party early arose
in the commonwealth, who professed to regard the
purity of the public manners as the foundation of
national security. They considered the power of
the ruler as an antagonist principle to the liberty
of the citizen ; and therefore placed their chief
hope for the independence they had obtained, not
in giving strength to the government, but in pre-
serving a republican spirit in the people. It is by
regarding the prevalence of these opinions and the
strength of them among the statesmen of that day,
that many of their measures can be rightly ex-
plained.

The news of the signing the preliminary articles
of peace reached congress on 24th March, in a
letter from the marquis de la Fayette, always the
messenger of good news. When the definitive
treaty was laid before that body, it was with sin-
gular propriety committed to those of its members,
who in 1776 had signed the declaration of inde-
pendence. Three only remained. Mr. Jefferson
the draughtsman of that declaration was chairman
of this committee. Mr. Gerry was next named, and
after him Mr. Ellery of Rhode-Island. Mr. Read
of South-Carolina and Mr. Hawkins of North-
Carolina completed the requisite number.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 381

It was the happy fortune of this committee to
report to congress, that the objects of their sacri-
fices were at length accomplished, that the sove-
reignty, freedom and independence of the United
States were recognised, and that the painful strug-
gle, which had thus far attended their existence
as a nation, was now happily at an end.

On the day that Mr. Adams signed the defini-
tive treaty in Paris he wrote the following letter.

MR. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Paris, Sept. 3, 1783.

My Dear Mr. Gerry,

The third of September will be more remark-
able for the signature of the definitive treaties than
for the battle of Naseby or Worcester, or the death
of Oliver Cromwell. We could obtain no altera-
tion from the provisional articles. We could ob-
tain no explanation of the articles respecting the
tories, nor any limitation respecting interest or
execution for debts. I am however less anxious
about these things than others.

Our first object is to secure the liberties of our
citizens in the separate states. Our second, to
maintain and strengthen the confederation. Our
third, to purge the minds of our people of their
fears, their diffidence of themselves and admira-
tion of strangers ; and our fourth, to defend our-

382 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

selves against the wiles of Europe. My appre-
hensions of the importance of our foreign affairs
have been much increased by a residence of five
or six years in Europe. I see so much enmity to
the principle of our governments, to the purity of
our morals, the simplicity of our manners, the
honest integrity and sincerity of our hearts, to our
contentment with poverty, our love of labour, our
affection for liberty and our country ; I see so
many proofs of their hatred of all this and of their
dread of it, both as a dangerous example among
their own corrupted, debauched subjects, and as a
sure and certain source of power and grandeur ; I
see so many artifices practised to debase every
body you send, or who comes to Europe ; so many
practised by them in America itself, hidden, cover-
ed up, disguised under all shapes ; and I see they
will ever have it in their power to practice so many
of these arts, and to succeed to such a degree, that
I am convinced no pains or expenses should be
spared to defend ourselves.

But how shall we defend ourselves ? We can-
not refuse to receive foreign ministers from sove-
reign powers. Shall we recall all our own minis-
ters from Europe ? This is a serious question.
I confess I am for the affirmative, and would give
my voice for recalling every one, if I could not
secure two points. The first is, to send men of
independent minds, who will not be tools ; men of
virtue and conscience : the second is, to persuade

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 3* S

congress to support them firmly : it is infinite-
ly better to have none in Europe than to have
artful, unprincipled impostors, or depraved men.
You may depend upon this ; the moment an
American minister gives a loose to his passion
for women, that moment he is undone ; he is in-
stantly at the mercy of the spies of the court,
and the tool of the most profligate of the human
race. This will be called pedantry, but it is sa-
cred truth ; and our country will feel it to her sor-
row, if she is not aware of it in season. If you
make it a principle that your ministers should be
agreeable at the court, and have the good word of
the courtiers, you are undone. No man will ever
be pleasing at a court in general, who is not de-
praved in his morals or warped from your inter-
ests : if therefore you can carry elections for men
of pure integrity and unshaken firmness, it will be
for your interest to have a number of them at the
principal courts of Europe for some time ; two or
three years at least : if you cannot, you had better
send none. Men of any other character will be
called amiable, and be said to be beloved and es-
teemed, and to have your confidence, but they will
be made the instruments of the most insidious and
destructive designs upon your liberties : I mean
upon your morals and republican virtues, which are
the only qualities which can save our country.
For myself I don't care a farthing; the most agree-
able thing to me would be to come home. But I

384 LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERUY.

pray one thing only for myself: it is, that you
would determine immediately, whether I may come
home or not.

It is the true interest of our country to cultivate
the friendship of the Dutch. We have nothing to
fear from them, as we have from the French and
English : it is their policy as well as ours to culti-
vate peace and neutrality, and we may aid each
other in it.

With sincere affection your friend,

John Adams.
Mr. Gerry.

The ratification which the committee reported
passed by the unanimous vote of congress. In-
deed no nation ever terminated a war by a treaty
more completely securing all the objects for which
it had been commenced. Every point in discus-
sion had been successfully maintained by the
American envoys. Not only the existence of the
United States as a nation was acknowledged, but
their entire claim of territory was admitted ; their
right to the fisheries was preserved, and the sub-
ject of debts and confiscations, which at one time
threatened to produce the embarrassments that
such questions usually create, was settled in a
manner perfectly satisfactory.

It can easily be imagined with what different
feelings those of the committee, who had signed

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 385

the declaration of independence now recommend-
ed the proper signature to this treaty of peace.

Besides the great satisfaction derived from the
successful termination of their principal labours,
there were other scenes of joy, in which the mem-
bers of the congress of 17i3.'J were called to parti-
cipate, and which by contrast with the times of
their first efforts for liberty, must have made a
most vivid impression on their minds.

The commander of the American army was in-
vited, at a public reception by this congress, to
listen to their grateful acknowledgments for his
services in acquiring and establishing the freedom
and independence of his country, and to witness
their solemn thanksgiving to providence for pre-
serving during all the vicissitudes of war his in-
valuable life. He was received by congress with
that profound respect, which became the represent-
atives of a great people towards the patriot leader
of their arms, and requested, with a sincerity that
ensured success, still to continue the aid of his
talents and experience in forming arrangements
which would become necessary in time of peace.
Peace ! How different the sound from the en-
gagements, which had called him to his eminent
situation.

Conquerors in every age of the world have ex-
hausted their invention to find means of honour
and reward. Ovations, triumphs, arches, monu-
ments, the pageantry of wealth, the spoils of vic-
386 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

tory, the humiliation of the vanquished, the up-
roar and huzzas of the populace, have borne their
car of victory, while the splendour of their achieve-
ments has not unfrequently eventuated in the ruin
of the people in whose service their fame has
been acquired. The reward bestowed on the
general of the revolution is proposed to him by
the unanimous voice of the representatives of the
people, and has all its glory in the moral sublimity
of the scene. They receive him as their military
champion. They congratulate him on having ac-
complished the great work they had given him to
do. They thank God that in doing it his life had
been preserved to his country. They invite him
to remain yet a little longer in their service, with
a confidence that the civil is the superiour power,
and that the obligations of the citizen are not for-
gotten by the soldier.

This reward, as imperishable as the records of
the war, accords well with the unostentatious
manners of the republic. The general accepts it
with a dignity and a modesty, which unite only in
the character of Washington. In a reply to the
president's address, he refers to the wisdom of the
public councils, the firmness of the citizens and
the patience and bravery of the troops, as the
causes, which under the Divine interposition, had
produced the then happy result, and would con-
tinue to be the presage of future happiness. He
acknowledges the favourable sentiments of con-

LIFE OF ELBKIDGE GERRY. 387

gress, and the confidence and affection of his fel-
low citizens, as an ample remuneration for his

own exertions ; and while he accedes to the re-
quest to continue in the public service until ar-
rangements for peace are prepared, proposes on
that event to ask permission to retire to the shade
of private life.

Shortly after this interesting interview, the min-
ister of the court of France, who had resided near
congress since the alliance, and whose zeal, pru-
dence and courtesy had entitled him to their high
regard, announced his recall. On this occasion
congress addressed him by letter, prepared by a
committee of which Mr. Gerry was chairman, in
which they say, " That they consider it a fortunate
circumstance, that the affairs of his most christian
majesty in this quarter, have been under the di-
rection of an able and faithful minister, whose
anxiety to promote the views and interests of his
sovereign has been attended with a laudable de-
sire to reconcile them with those of his allies.
Without such a disposition it is evident there could
not have existed a concert of those measures,
which by the smiles of providence have hastened
the conclusion of the late distressing war. They
commend him to the consideration of his sovereign,
whose favour he had deserved, and pray that he
may have a happy interview with his family and
friends."

At a later period the marquis de la Fayette

388 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

communicated his intention to return home, on
which occasion a grand committee of one member
from each state, was deputed to take leave of him,
and to assure him of the high sense congress con-
tinue to entertain of his abilities and zeal to pro-
mote the welfare of the United States, both here
and in Europe, which they have frequently ex-
pressed and manifested on former occasions, and
which his recent attention to their commercial and
other interests, have perfectly confirmed. And
that as his uniform and unceasing attachment to
this country has resembled that of a patriotic
citizen, the United States regard him with parti-
cular affection, and will not cease to feel an inte-
rest in whatever may concern his honour and
prosperity, and that their best and kindest wishes
will always attend him.

But the most imposing scene was that of 23d
December 1783, when according to previous ar-
rangement the commander in chief, at a public
audience, surrendered to congress the trust com-
mitted to him, and claimed the indulgence of re-
tiring from the service of his country. " The
emotions too affecting for utterance," with which
this triumph of principle, of virtue and of patriotism
was received by the members of that illustrious
assembly, have claimed the homage of the histo-
rian, the painter and the poet, and more than re-
alized the fabled grandeur of the Roman senate,
when " its authority comprehended the fairest

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 389

part of the earth, and the most civilized portion »>!
mankind."

Opportunities for the indulgence of gratulation
or pleasure were however of brief continuance
with the statesmen of 1783. When the few mo-
ments which were devoted to joy at the successful
termination of their labours had passed awav ;
when the first emotions of triumph and self satis-
faction at the establishment of peace had sub-
sided, the calmer view which they were enabled
to take of public affairs, was calculated to fill them
with trouble and alarm.

The situation of public credit, the duty of com-
plying with those pecuniary obligations, which
congress in behalf of the nation had incurred, and
the entire want of power to acquire the necessary
means, were first on a long list of difficulties, to
which the attention of congress was required.
The result of an anxious deliberation on these
matters, was a resolve on 18th April 1783, recom-
mending to the several states, as indispensably
necessary to the restoration of public credit and to
the punctual and honourable discharge of the pub-
lic debts, to invest in the United States in congress
assembled a power to levy for the use of the
United States, specific duties on certain enume-
rated goods imported into said states from any
foreign port, and duties ad valorem upon others.
The collectors of these duties were to be appointed
by the states respectively, and the revenues by

390 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

them collected were to be carried to the separate
credit of the states within which they were col-
lected.

The propriety of this requisition was set forth
in an elaborate address to the states, in which the
estimated debt of the revolution is called forty-
two million three hundred seventy-five dollars ;
the annual interest $2,415,956; the proceeds of
the proposed impost $915,956; the balance of
interest $1,500,000, to be provided for as the
states may deem best.

In addition to the claims of justice for the pay-
ment of this debt, the character of the creditors is re-
ferred to. They are enumerated, first an ally, who
to important loans added liberal donations, and
whose loans themselves carry the impression of
magnanimity and friendship. 2dly, individuals in a
foreign country, who were the first to give so pre-
cious a token of their confidence in our justice,
and of their friendship in our cause. 3dly, that
illustrious and patriotic band of fellow citizens,
whose blood and whose bravery have defended the
liberties of their country, who have patiently borne
among other distresses the privation of their sti-
pends, whilst the distresses of their country disa-
bled it from bestowing them, and who even now
ask for no more than such a portion of their dues
as will enable them to retire from the field of vic-
tory and glory into the bosom of peace and private
citizenship, and for such effectual security for the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGi: (,1,KKY. 891

residue of their claims as their country is now un-
questionably able to provide. The residue of the
public creditors were stated to be those citizens
of the United States who had lent property to
the country, or the assigns of such original cre-
ditors, and such others as had had their property
taken for the public use.

If the levying a tax by force of law is found by
experience to be the most unpopular act of autho-
rity, the obtaining one by voluntary assessment
seems the least flattering subject of political expe-
riment. There were to the success of this appli-
cation very formidable obstacles.

The country was exhausted. Its intrinsic re-
sources and the elasticity of its power were un-
known. Its future rapid accumulation of materials
was not anticipated. Ancient habits had been in-
terrupted by the war ; new ones were not yet
formed, and among the people were some, who in
a restless spirit of disquietude were ready to ex-
claim with the Israelites, that it had been better
for them to have served the Egyptians than to
have been brought out to die in the wilderness.

There prevailed among many classes of the
community great doubt of the justice of the debt
itself; not indeed that the present creditors had
not a valid claim, but that others, and among such
many who were to contribute to the common fund,
had equal demands in equity, which never could
be satisiied. In the rapid and sometimes install-

392 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

taneous depression of public paper, he who had
sold goods even at a high price, could not replace
them for double the amount received. In every
successive transfer of government securities, loss
more or less severe had most generally been expe-
rienced, and it became difficult to reconcile to the
comprehension of the citizens the justice of that
rule, which secured to the last holder the full value
of the public paper he possessed, when probably
his original interest in it was less than many of his
neighbours. In the advance created by this un-
certain paper in the price of all the necessaries of
life, by the scarcity of some articles and the loss
upon others, many had spent their fortune and
were now comparatively poor, without any claim
upon the public. The property of some citizens
had in the progress of the war been ravaged or
destroyed by the enemy, and these could see no
fairness in a rule, which should pay their neigh-
bour for what was taken by the American forces,
and leave them to bear unrequited the sufferings,
which they had been obliged to sustain.

The army, great as were its merits and severe
as had been its sufferings, did not come in for an
unquestioned right to the benefit of public credit-
ors. When they told their tale of misery, if it
was not listened to with an incredulous ear, some-
thing like an account in off-set was filed by the
hearer, as if his own unsettled or uncompensated
injuries might reasonably excuse him from contri-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 393

buting to the indemnity of any one else. The
story of tlie officers was put indeed in plain Lan-
guage, and could not be denied. Our distresses,
say they, in a memorial to congress, which was
annexed to the proposal for an impost and sent to
the states, our distresses are now brought to a
point. We have borne all that men can bear, our
property is expended, our private resources are at
an end, and our friends are wearied out and dis-
gusted with our incessant applications. When-
ever there has been any real want of means, any
deficiency in system or defect in execution in the
departments of the army, we have invariably been
the sufferers by hunger and nakedness and by lan-
guishing in a hospital.

But the citizen, to whom this recital of suffer-
ing was repeated, could recount the distresses of
civil life, for which he had not even the poor satis-
faction of asking compensation. To the claim of
patriotism he would probably allege his own sacri-
fice in having had a son or brother or father in the
ranks, whose bones still bleached on some unfor-
tunate field, or he had himself served in a civil ca-
pacity not the less useful ; or been called out to
take his musket in some of those numberless
alarms, which assembled the whole population
without pay, rations or thanks. AN hen the evils
of the times had hung like a cloud on the whole
community, every man had laid his sacrifice on the
394 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

altar of patriotism, in the hope to appease the
genius of the storm.

As to personal loss the citizen complained that
his property had been taken for taxes, while others
instead of contributing to the common fund had
exhausted it. His employments had ceased, and
idleness had brought upon him all the privations of
military life without its honours, and afflicted him
with the poverty of the soldier without his rank.*

The mode of raising a revenue, when even it is
admitted that one must be raised, is a fruitful sub-
ject of complaint. It was so here. Any plan,
which was to operate by an uniform rule over such
dissimilar communities as the states were in 1783,
must obviously be liable to well-founded objec-
tions ; but some that were urged against the one
proposed by congress now appear to have been ex-
ceedingly fanciful. Rhode-Island among other
reasons for denying the right of impost alleged that
the resolution proposes to introduce into that and
the other states officers unknown and unaccounta-
ble to them, and so is against the constitution of

* There had been great difficulty to get men to enlist in the
army. They who could go availed themselves of the distresses of
those who could not, by demanding bounties that were afterwards
remembered as excessive. At one period, in Massachusetts, the
recruit received as a bounty from the continent 6/., from the
state 20/., and in addition to all this the towns paid from 20
to SOI. Many who got large bounties a short time before the
close of the war returned richer than their neighbours. Mr.
Phillips' letter, page 256, gives some account of this manage-
ment.

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY. 395

the state. " That by granting congress ;i p<>\\ ei to
collect money from the commerce of these states
indefinitely as to time and quantity, and for the

expenditure of which they are not accountable to
the states, they would become independent of their
constituents, and so the proposed impost is repug-
nant to the liberty of the United States."

But the most formidable objection was made by
Massachusetts. In a letter addressed to con^r<>s
by the legislature of that state on 1 1th June 1783,
it is said that they have not been able to agree in
granting to the United States an impost duty
agreeably to the recommendation of congress,
" because of those measures of congress which are
extremely opposite and irritating to the principles
and feelings, which the people of some of the east -
ern states, and of this in particular, inherit from
their ancestors."

The measures complained of were the half pay
granted to the officers of the army ; the subsequent
commutation of that half pay, and the salaries al-
lowed to the civil officers of congress.

On the first subject of grievance the Massachu-
setts legislature used the following language. '-The
general court are sensible that by the confedera-
tion the United States, in congress assembled, arc
vested with a discretionary power to make provi-
sion for the support and payment of the army, and
such civil officers as may be necessary for manag-
ing the general affairs of the United States : but

396 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

in making such provision, due regard ever ought
to be had to the welfare and happiness of the peo-
ple, the rules of equity and the spirit and design
of the confederation.

We cannot on this occasion avoid saying with
due respect, we are of opinion those principles were
not duly attended to in the grant of half pay to
the officers of the army ; that being in our opinion
a grant of more than an adequate reward for their
services, and inconsistent with that equality which
ought to subsist among citizens of free and repub-
lican states. Such a measure appears to be cal-
culated to raise and exalt some citizens in wealth
and grandeur, to the injury and oppression of
others, even if the inequality which will happen
among the officers of the army who have perform-
ed from one to eight years' service should not be
taken into the consideration."

Massachusetts was at that time represented by
men whose political creed held as a leading arti-
cle, that economy was one of the cardinal virtues
of a republic ; but they were too intelligent states-
men not to see that a past unthriftiness of expen-
diture could not discharge the imperious duty of
providing for the public debt; and however unwill-
ing they were to provide for what was then con-
sidered a lavish use of the public means, they
could not consent to produce the additional evil of
a violation of the public faith.

The committee to whom the letter from Mas-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 397

sachusctts was referred reported in detail their
objections to its doctrines. They justified the
grant of half pay, on the score as well of policy as
justice, and of the commutation as a matter of
calculation and prudence; but they added, as a
conclusive argument against any revision, that
these measures were constitutionally and finally
adopted, and of course not now within the arbi-
tration of congress.

"When the report was under consideration, a
motion prevailed to strike out the words " consti-
tutionally and." By this amendment a doubt at
least was implied, of the right of congress to have
adopted the objectionable measure. The report
thus amended was agreed to. On the final ques-
tion the Massachusetts delegation did not vote.
Constituted as congress was, they could not as
delegates oppose the measures of their state, nor
as statesmen accede to their propriety. In a let-
ter drawn up by Mr. Gerry and addressed to the
corresponding committee of the Massachusetts le-
gislature the delegates use the following language.

" Congress have assigned their reasons for not
complying with the desires of the legislature.
They allege that the promise of half pay for life
was made in the year 1780, prior to the existence
of the present congress, or indeed of any congress
assembled in pursuance of the confederation, and
is therefore considered to be under the sanction
of the 12th article, which provides that all bills of

398 LIFE OF ELBKIDGE GERRY.

credit emitted, monies borrowed or debts contract-
ed by or under the authority of congress, before
the assembling of the United States in pursuance
of the present confederation, shall be deemed and
considered a charge against the United States ; for
payment and satisfaction whereof the said United
States and the public faith are thereby solemnly
pledged. The grant therefore has created a debt,
and for the payment of this debt the officers have
the faith of the couniry, that not only is this an
engagement which can never be recalled, but an
attempt to recall it would sap the foundation of
public credit.

Among the salaries of the civil officers of con-
gress, which formed part of the subject of com-
plaint in the Massachusetts memorial, were those
paid the foreign ministers of the United States ;
while these officers on their part complained that
the allowance made to them was not sufficient
to prevent the sacrifice of their private fortune.
Some letters to Mr. Gerry from these agents of
the country will explain the unreasonableness of
quarrelling with their compensation. Mr. Adams
lived at Auteuil, near Paris, and thus writes.

MR. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

»

Aoteuil, Sept. 9, 1783.

In Europe, appearance is every thing.
What you allow me I shall expend, but you know

* * *

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERM 399

that I cannot expend any more. When 1 was
first in Holland I used to make visits with one
footman behind my coach. The plainest repub-
licans, the severest of them all, came to me to re-
monstrate. "Mr. Adams,1' said they, "you must
never make a visit with less than two servants in
livery behind your coach. Von can neither keep
up your own reputation with our people, nor that
of your country, nor our reputation who associate
with you and call you the American minister.
without it." ' Vest trop en bourgeois? This is
the fact : it is seen and felt by every one.

The foreign ministers at European courts may
be divided into three classes. First, noblemen of
high rank and great fortune in their countries,
who have six, eight or ten thousand pounds from
their courts; some of whom are supposed to spend
as much more out of their private fortunes. Tin se
are commonly more fit for parade than any thing
else, or have particular reasons for wishing to live
out of their own countries, or whose courts have
such reasons for wishing them away. Secondly,
others who have smaller salaries, but still hand-
some ones, and who spend twice as much, which
they acquire by speculations in stocks, by making
use of their prerogatives in saving ditties upon
goods, even by secret connexions with smugglers,
by gaming, and many other ways equally unfit to
mention or suspect. All these practices have been
used, and perhaps are still. But congress ought

400 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

to execrate and condemn, in the most decided
manner, every such thing in their ministers.
Thirdly, there are others, who have honourable
salaries, spend them honourably, and are industri-
ous and attentive to the rights and honour of their
country and their masters. Such and such only
ought to be the American ministers. The present
allowance to your ministers, with an addition of
three hundred a year for a clerk, is in my opinion
as little as will possibly bear ; for, besides all the
expensive articles of house, coach, livery servants,
domestic servants, presents to the servants at
courts, and the pilferings of servants, tradesmen,
shopkeepers, &c, a great and inevitable deduction,
your ministers must keep a handsome table, suit-
able to entertain genteel company at all times,
and great company very often.

With great esteem and sincere affection,
Your friend,

John Adams.

The same subject is again alluded to in a letter
from the same gentleman of December 12, 17*33.

* # * * There is a limitation which will shackle
us very much. You have reduced our salaries so
low, that it is absolutely impossible for us to live
in character and see the company which it is your
interest we should see. You have never allowed
us any thing as all other nations do to furnish

LIFE OF ELBRIDOE GERRY. 401

house and table. Is it your interest to give \ our-
selves and your representatives in Europe an air
of meanness below the ministers of ever} petty
sovereign, nay below common merchants and or-
dinary housekeepers, and I might say below the

genteel girls of the town ?

*****

# * * * j know t]iat 110body in America has
any idea of the expenses among the great in all
these countries. None of your ministers have
ever been able to receive such company as they
ought, even when your allowance was most liberal ;
now it is totally impossible. This was overlook-
ed and excused in the heat of war, and when
our existence was a problem ; but it will be
criticised every where, and by every body, now
we are at peace and rest.

To talk as some have done of obli"inii American
ambassadors to live at courts in Europe in the sim-
plicity and frugality of ancient Romans, in the
purest republican times before luxury existed, is
to rant and rave. Nobody in Europe has any idea,
or can form any conception of such maimers ; and
if they could, they would entertain no other senti-
ments of them than contempt, ridicule, or abhor-
rence. But what makes it worse, the Americans
who travel appear in great splendour ; some of
them, private gentlemen, living at an expense of
double the sum you allow your ambassadors, and
travellers of all nations, who return from America,
402 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

report the great expense in which many private
gentlemen live in Boston, New- York, Philadel-
phia, &c. all which conspires to make our situa-
tion in Europe very disagreeable. I can live and
be happy on Pen's Hill on a hundred a year, but
I cannot live upon two thousand a year in any
country of Europe as a public minister without
being unhappy, because I can't live in character,
and because I expose myself and my country to
very cutting reflections and insinuations.

There is at the Hague a Mr. Magis, envoy from
the bishop of Liege. One day at dinner at the
Spanish ambassador's he told me he had been
there thirty years. It is thirty years, says he,
that I have been eating ambassadors. They al-
ways invite me to their entertainments, and I al-
ways accept. I have never had any appointment
that enabled me to return their civilities. Mats
Tai toujours mange des a?7ibassadors. Liege may
be equal to a county in America, and is defended
as an electorate of the empire ; but it will not be
for the honour or safety of the United States for
their ministers " to eat ambassadors for thirty
years" without returning the civility. We must
be eaten in our turn.

You will think I have been too long in Europe,
and that I am infected with the manners of this
country ; if you do, call me home and send others.
I assure you I had rather be at home. There I
can live upon as little as any of you ; here I can-

LIFE OF EL15RJJ><;i; C'F.URY. 10.]

not. And those you send in my place, will find

that they cannot.

It is time to finish this tedious letter. Adieu,
my friend, adieu.

John Adams.

The Hon. Mr. Gerry.

Having inserted these letters of complaint, it is
but justice to their eminent writer to add an ex-
tract from another of subsequent date : —

* # * # j j^g yOU wouid gjve yourself no anx-
iety about salaries. I think the reduction of them
wrong. I don't find that the articles of subsist-
ence are cheaper since the peace ; the hire of
horses and carriages is the same ; the rent of
houses, servants' wages, &c. are the same. We
have more to do with foreign ministers and are
more taken notice of by them : but upon the pre-
sent allowance we can keep no tables nor see any
company in the fashion of public ministers. Re-
tirement is more agreeable to me than company,
but it is not for the interest of the public. I am
told it is reported, that I have one per cent, allow-
ed me upon the loan in Holland, and that a sum
of money is always given upon the signature of :i
treaty. This upon my honour is totally false. Of
all the immense sums borrowed under my name, not
one farthing ever came to my benefit, nor have I

404 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ever received a farthing for myself in any way but
the salary you have allowed me. Many will call
me a fool, because they know I have been in a
situation where I might have made profits ; but
such are my sentiments. My head and my heart
have been too full of the public to think much of

myself or my children. * * *

# * * # *

While the delegates of Massachusetts allowed
the report of the committee adverse to the repre-
sentation of their state to be accepted, they took a
more practical way to reconcile the opinions of
their fellow-citizens to the measures proposed by
congress. Mr. Gerry, as chairman of a commit-
tee on the civil list, reported sundry alterations in
the public expenditure, which were adopted ; and
the recommendation of congress concerning an im-
post, after encountering opposition from other
causes, was finally acceded to.

The session of congress terminated on 3d June
1784. The journals of its proceedings testify to
the diligence and labour of the delegate from Mas-
sachusetts. He discovered the assiduity of a man
of real business. In whatever department work
was to be performed, he was counted upon as one
of the efficient agents by whom it was to be con-
ducted. Scarcely a committee was raised, in which
he was not called to bear an important part,

UFE OF ELBlUDOi: CERHY, 10. r,

To have been distinguished in ilu* congress <>i
l7<5.'!-ol, was no common honour. The assembly
which concluded peace with Great Britain, \\ . i -
not inferiour in character or talents to the gfeat
convention of 177(3. Virginia had her Jefferson
and Lee, and then added Monroe, whose integrity
and diligence gave promise of the future eminence
he was destined to attain. Maryland had to
M'Henry joined Chase,* confident in his strength
and trusting to his own resources for that display
of mind which never failed to interest his hearers,
and who even then enlivened the tediousness of
debate by that caustic severity of remark, which
at a future day brought down upon him the resent-
ment of political opponents. The historian of

* Afterwards one of the associate justices of the supreme
court of the United States. Judge Chase asms impeached in the
year 1804, and tried before the senate. On sonic of the charges
a majority voted against him. but not the constitutional Dumber
required to remove him. His subsequent continuance on the
bench displayed the singular inconsistency of a judge admin-
istering the laws, who had been pronounced guilty of high
crimes and misdemeanours by a majority of the fust department
of the government. Posterity, in the language of one of his
eloquent counsel, has re-judged that decision. The political
offences, for which he was arraigned, are not in the bill of in-
dictment. The trial, including the accurate and technical enu-
meration of the charges by the managers of the house of repre-
sentatives, the acute, logical and triumphant answer of the ac-
cused, the business style of argument and the caustic severity
of the attack, and the eloquence, bold, spirited, pathetic and
convincing, of the defence, may well compare in the talents it
displayed, with the celebrated proceedings of a similar character
in the only other country where such a trial could be had.

406 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

North-Carolina added his stores of learning, not
the less interesting from the eccentricity of his
manners ; and Massachusetts, in addition to the
experience and industry of her Gerry, presented
the learning, the acuteness and penetration of her
future chief justice, just returned from an interest-
ing mission to the court of Russia, and carrying
into the councils of his country those lessons of
political wisdom, which his capacious and investi-
gating mind had gathered in the course of exten-
sive professional engagements at home and new
opportunity of observation abroad.

LIFE OF ELMilDGE CF.RRY. 401

CHAPTER XXV.

Correspondence of the Delegates Questions arising from tltc

Treaty of Peace Cincinnati Letters concerning that In-
stitution Military Establishment.

The assembly of statesmen, who in the congress
of 17JJ3 conducted the executive and legislative
concerns of the United States, continued to act
more in the capacity of ministers from independent
sovereignties than as the council of a single nation.
That the good of the parts could be best promoted
by the welfare of the whole, seemed a principle
more generally acceded to in theory than adopted
in practice. That the states had common duties,
obligations and objects, and a common weakness
which rendered union indispensable for security,
were obvious facts ; but that they had diverse,
separate and sometimes conflicting interests, was
beginning to be felt now that the pressure of a
foreign enemy was taken off, and more steady
attention given to domestic concerns.

Each state had on all occasions one vote with-
out regard to its population or the number of its
delegates, provided only that the number of dele-
gates to whom it had confided the power of giving
such vote were present for the purpose. Each

408 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

state was, therefore, on the floor of congress on a
perfect equality. Each state continued to pay the
expenses of its own delegation in its own way, so
that off the floor of congress the personal equality
of the members was destroyed. The states them-
selves exercised the same right of direction to their
members as congress itself exercised towards its
diplomatic agents abroad.

In Massachusetts at one time the delegates
were ordered to correspond with the governour,
and to write to him at least once a fortnight. On
11th July 1783, a committee was appointed by
the legislature to correspond with the delegates,
who were expected to be minute in their accounts
not only of what was done but of what was omitted
to be done by congress. The appointment of this
committee was officially announced to the dele-
gates, and followed by the following letter.

MR. SAMUEL ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, Sept. 9, 1783.

My Dear Sir,
This is the first letter I have been able to write
since I had the pleasure of seeing you, excepting
a short one to our delegates, informing them that
the general court had appointed a committee to
correspond with them. Mr. Appleton and Mr.
Rowe are my colleagues in this business. The

LIFE OF ELBRlDtn: GERRY. 109

correspondence is to be very extensive. "Any
other important matter which relates to the being
and welfare of the United States !'" .My bodily ill-
ness has prevented my engaging in it. 1 wish the

delegates would begin. The Welfare, and perhaps
the being of the United States, in m> opinion, de-
pends mueh upon congress possessing the confi-
dence of the people at large ; that upon the ad-
ministration of public affairs being manifestly
grounded upon principles of equality and justice,
or upon the people being assured that congress
merit their confidence. The war is now over, and
the people turn their eyes to the disposition of their
money, a subject, which I hope congress will al-
ways have so clear a knowledge of, as to be able
at any time to satisfy the rational enquiries of the
people. To prevent groundless jealousies, it seems
necessary not only that the principal in that de-
partment should himself be immaculate, but that
care should be taken that no persons be admitted
to his confidence but such as have the entire con-
fidence of the people. Should a suspicion prevail
that our high treasurer suffers men of bad princi-
ples or of no principles to be about him and em-
ployed by him, the fidelity of congress itself would
be suspected, and a total loss of confidence would
follow. I am much concerned for the reputation
of congress, and have laboured to support it be-
cause that body is and must be the cement of the
union of the states. I hope, therefore, they will
410 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

always make it evident to reasonable men that
their administration merits the public applause.
Will they be able to do this, if they should cease
to be very watchful over men whom they trust in
great departments, especially those who have the
disposition of the public moneys ? Power will fol-
low the possession of money, even when it is
known that it is not the possessor's property. So
fascinating are riches in the eyes of mankind !
Were our financier, I was going to say, even an
angel from heaven, I hope he will never have so
much influence as to gain the ascendency over
congress, which the first lord of the treasury has
long had over the parliament of Britain ; long
enough to effect the ruin of that nation. These
are the fears which I expressed in congress when
the department was first instituted. I was told,
that the breath of congress could annihilate the
financier ; but I replied, that the time might come,
and if they w7ere not careful it certainly would,
when even congress would not dare to blow that
breath. Whether these fears are the mere crea-
tures of the imagination you will judge.

My regards to Dr. Holten and Mr. Higgen-
son, if he is still in congress. Pray write to me
often.

Adieu.

Samuel Adams.

Hon. Elbridge Gerry.

LIFE OF ELBRTDGE GERRY. Ill

The delegates, who arranged among themselves
the periods of their attendance at congress, never

left the state or returned to it without eoniiniini-
eatinii the feet to the legislature, and in a personal
interview or by letter giving information of the
past, or receiving instructions for their i'utn re con-
duct. The implicit recognition of this diplomatic
character is contained in a letter of .Messrs. (Jerry,
Holten and King, of 18th August \7V>t, in lan-
guage, which shows that at that period it was not
the subject of discussion.

" We have delayed," the letter proceeds, " any
communication with congress upon the subject of
your letters, with an intention to state to your ex-
cellency our sentiments upon the probable ten-
dency and consequences of the measure, should it
be adopted by congress and acceded to by the
states.

" We are sensible that our duty points to a
prompt obedience to the acts and instructions of
the legislature ; but if a case arises, wherein we
discover most clearly consequences so fatal, that
had they been known, perhaps, the measure adopt-
ed would not have been proposed, it may not be
improper to delay a final execution until we have
the further instructions of the legislature, after
such pernicious consequences of the measure shall
have been submitted to them.

" But this may be a questionable opinion j we
will therefore ask the advice of the supreme ex-

412 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ecutive ; and that they may know our situation,
we will communicate our sentiments for the re-
vision of the court."

There was a curious sequel to the appointment
of a committee of correspondence by the Massa-
chusetts legislature. On 11th September 1783,
Mr. Gerry, in behalf of the delegates, addressed a
long letter to the committee upon the arrange-
ments proposed in congress concerning the old
emissions of paper money, the half pay and com-
mutation, and the reduction of the civil list, with
a summary of the arguments in congress on both
sides of the propositions before them. In this
letter he further states that in 17J50, congress
finding that their bills of credit had depreciated,
ascertained their value, made an apportionment
for the express purpose of sinking them, and as-
sessed this on the several states ; that such an
apportionment was in effect as far as it went, an
apportionment of the national debt. That Mas-
sachusetts complied with the requisition, and had
thereby paid this part of their quota ; and if other
states had done the like, the depreciation could
never have gone beyond seventy-five for one ; that
at that rate the money was current a day or two
in Massachusetts, and large quantities were re-
ceived from the inhabitants of other states with-
out notice of its failure, the loss of which fell on
our own citizens, and therefore the delegates dis-
tinctly intimate that whatever may be the abstract

LIFE OF BLBR1DGE GERRY. 413

propriety of an impost for supplying the continent-
al treasury; yet as the only mode lor one state to
secure redress for grievances by the union was to
withhold supplies, it was prudent to delay the pro-
posed impost until arrangements W6K effected,
and that they had given such opinion to congress.

This letter, which was strictly official, was yet
written with the freedom and fulness, which be-
came the agents of the state in their address to
the body which appointed them, and was receded
by the committee in due course of mail, but never
communicated to the legislature.

The omission at first subjected the delegates to
reproof for neglect, but when the truth was made
known the whole legislature were in a flame. A
committee of investigation was appointed, who
summoned the delinquent committee before them.
These were Mr. Adams the president of the sen-
ate, Mr. Appleton and Mr. Roe, members of the
house from Boston.

Mr. Roe denied all knowledge of the delegates'
letter, and it appearing that it had never been in
his hands, he was exonerated from any blame.
Mr. Adams, as a reason for not communicating
the letter, which he acknowledged that he had
received, alleged his feeble health, the pressure of
business upon him as president of the senate, and
the recent examination of Mr. Higgenson, which
he thought superseded the necessity of any further
information. Mr. Appleton admitted that he had

414 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

read the letter, which was handed to him by Mr.
Adams, but the committee never having been to-
gether, when he had read it he put it in his pocket
and thought no more about it ! He did not con-
ceive it was incumbent on him to communicate
the letter to the house, but that the chairman, Mr.
Adams, to whom alone he was answerable, would
take proper measures for its publication.

The house voted Mr. Appleton's excuse unsatis-
factory, and at the ensuing election he lost his
seat. The friends of Mr. Adams barely succeed-
ed in saving him from reproof. There was a debt
of gratitude due to him for past services, which
was allowed to satisfy the penalty of this offence.
But it was with much difficulty that he maintain-
ed his place in the senate.

The subject was used with great effect at the
polls of the following year, but independently of
the neglect of duty, which the house had great
reason to blame, the suppression does not appear
to have produced any material consequence.

Mr. Higgenson, giving an account of the matter
to Mr. Gerry, says, "The suppression of our letter
has produced a great fermentation. It has much
hurt our friend Mr. S. Adams and ruined Mr. Ap-
pleton's public course. I thought it very impru-
dent and unfair in them, and told them so ; but
they were afraid it would have hurt their darling
child, the continental impost bill. Many of the
members say, that had it not been suppressed the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY 1 1 5

act would not have passed. Mr. S declare-.

he should have opposed it had the letter !>• so
communicated ; but I do not believe him, havine
heard him deliver two very serious and opposite
opinions before, on the same question."

Mr. Adams himself thus explains it to .Air. ( i.-i-
ry. "Your letter ef 11th September, directed to
the committee, was through mere forgetfolneas
omitted to be communicated in season. This \\;)s
attributed to an abominable design to withhold
from the court the sentiment of the delegates re-
specting the expediency of refusing to yield sup-
plies to the continental treasury till justice should
be done with regard to the old money now in our
public treasury and private hands. I could not
help diverting myself with the ebullition of appa-
rent zeal for the public good on this occasion ; and
upon its being said by a gentleman in senate that
it was the subject of warm conversation among
the people without doors, I observed that the
clamour would undoubtedly subside on the after-
noon of the first Monday in April next."

The return of peace, grateful as it must have
been to the wearied citizens of the United States,
did not bring with it an exemption from anxiety.

The people of Massachusetts found cause of
alarm in that article of the treaty which related to
the refugees ; in the proceedings of the officers of
the army establishing the society of Cincinuatus ;
in the propositions before congress for maintaining

416 LIFE OF ELBRTDGE GERRY.

a military force, although it was limited to the
mere preservation of the forts, arsenals, public
property and the personal security of agents to
the Indian tribes ; in the unsettled, perplexed and
disheartening condition of the public credit ; in
the unequal operation of means for supplying the
national treasury, and the reluctant efforts by
which they were called forth. These various sub-
jects and others connected with them, excited in
a greater or less degree similar feelings of appre-
hension in every part of the confederacy. Fear-
ful and portentous clouds still lowered in the po-
litical sky, filling the minds of intelligent patriots
with solicitude and alarm.

When the provisions of the treaty of peace con-
cerning refugees and the confiscation of property
came to be better understood, the faith of the na-
tion was in no respect violated by any act of
Massachusetts.

A committee had in the first instance reported,
that none who had borne arms against the United
States, or lent money to the enemy to carry on
the war, should ever be permitted to return into
the state ; but a spirit of greater indulgence final-
ly prevailed. *

A more debatable and angry subject of alarm
existed in the institution of the Cincinnati. This
convention of military citizens, which at the pre-

* Report on the files of the general court, March 16th, 1784,
Samuel Adams, chairman.

LIFE OF ELBRIBGE GER&Y. 1 1 7

sent day is beheld with veneration and respect,
whose weakness and not their power excites tin-
public sympathy ; whose devotion to their coun-
try's service in the gloomiest hours should have
been their guaranty lor future patriotism, and se-
cured their gallant names from reproach, every
where and among the most experienced and intel-
ligent of their fellow-citizens were looked upon
with unaffected displeasure and distrust.

The order of Cincinnati according to its original
plan was to consist of the surviving officers of the
regular line of the army. They were to be form-
ed into state societies, and deputies from these
local associations were to assemble in general con-
gress. The order was to be hereditary on the
principle of primogeniture. Members were to be
designated by a medal and ribbon. Foreign offi-
cers, who had served in the American army, and
native citizens elected by ballot, were to become
honorary members. A permanent and unlimited
fund was to be provided by assessment, donation
and devise.

Such was the constitution of a society, which at
its commencement divided the opinions of the
community, and shook the whole country with the
violence of dissention. That it was a military
combination was in itself a sufficient cause of
jealousy. The stern republicans of the United
States had been educated in strong feelings of dis-
like to a standing military force ; they had expe-
418 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

rienced from the day of the Boston massacre in
1770 the misery that marched in its train ; they
had learned in the dear school of experience how
feeble were the barriers, which law and the forms
of civil life could interpose against its rapacity,
and in their view it was enough that this was a
confederacy of military men in time of peace to
bring upon it their denunciation and abhorrence.
But in the eye of those, who had conducted the
civil departments of government, this association
was formed with the design of arrogating for the
military power of the revolution all the glory of that
splendid achievement. They who spread an alarm
at the proposed establishment of this separate or-
der, may without imputation on the purity of their
motives be supposed to have had some of their
hostility excited by the exclusive honour which it
seemed to them too ostentatiously to assume.
The civil and military chieftains of the revolution
had each done their appropriate duty ; had each
borne their part in the common danger ; had each
been called to varieties of suffering, and had en-
titled themselves to divide with each other the
laurels of victory. But this military association,
it was feared, would claim a monopoly of honour.
They, who had devoted their best days to the
civil service of the United States, must in the pro-
gress of time be scattered, and might be easily
forgotten ; but these military men with swords in
their hands and ribbons at their bosom would fill

LIFE OF ELBHIDGE GERRY. 419

the public eye, command the public resoun u ■-.
control the public will, and possess themselves of
all the glory to be bestowed in future ages on the
architects of the American empire.

Jealousy always magnifies the objects of its fear.
Perhaps by doing so on the present occasion it
roused an opposition that controlled the anticipat-
ed evils. Time has shown them to be ideal. W e
look back, if not to wonder at the existence of
such apprehensions, certaiuk with satisfaction that
they have not been realized.

Mr. Gerry entered into all the opposition that
this novel institution excited. In communicating
to his correspondents from time to time his objec-
tions to the establishment, he appears to have con-
sidered that its separate societies and general
convention were the organization of a parallel
power with the legislatures of the states and the
congress of the union, and that such institutions,
unknown to the constitution, could not be neces-
sary for the public good, and could not exist to-
gether without rivalry and collision ; that in as-
suming to raise funds and receive donations, with-
out the authority of the government, to an indefi-
nite amount, the institution, however laudable the
purposes intended by it, would in the natural pro-
gress of things promote such as were unlawful and
dangerous ; that the military habits of the asso-
ciates, who had for a long time been detached
from the maxims and manners of civil life, would

420 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

establish a public sentiment injurious to the civil
order of society ; that the admission of foreign
military officers attached to a government essen-
tially different in form and principle from the re-
publican institutions of the United States, was a
dangerous feature in the new society ; that the
hereditary character and ostentatious decorations
of the institution were in direct hostility to our
forms of government, and to the letter of the con-
federation ; and that even the gratitude, which
the country now felt to the members of the society,
would be converted to the injury of the republic,
inasmuch as the distinction of families with he-
reditary honours might, in process of time and by
means of this natural feeling, lead the way for the
usual powers of an established nobility.

These and similar reasons were urged with
great zeal by Mr. Gerry on his friends in the legis-
lature of Massachusetts, and were enforced by his
colleagues and other men whose opinions the legis-
lature were in the habit of respecting. They had
such weight that the general court resolved, " that
the society was unjustifiable, and if not properly
discountenanced might be dangerous to the peace,
liberty and safety of the United States in general,
and this state in particular."

Mr. Gerry's opinions concerning the society of
Cincinnati were reiterated by most of his corres-
pondents.

LIFE OF ELBK1DGE OEJtlY, 425

MR. JAY TO MR. GERRY.

Taris, Fkb. 1!>, 1784.

Dear Sir,

It was not until last week that your favour of
the 24th November last reached me. I am glad
to find it dated at Philadelphia, as that circum-
stance leads me to suppose you arc again serving
our country in congress. It is of the last import-
ance that our federal head should constantly be a
wise one, and that every art to diminish its respect-
ability should be fruitless. A report prevails that
Connecticut will not acquiesce in the late decision
of her controversy with Pennsylvania. Tiny who
fear our being a united and consequently a formi-
dable people (and I can hardly tell who do not fear
it) rejoice at this intelligence. Some of our best
friends think the order of Cincinnatus will even-
tually divide us into two mighty factions. The
permission of the king of France for his officers to
be of that order was asked, but the like compli-
ment was not paid to our own sovereign. The
king has consented without having requested the
opinion of congress on the subject that I can learn.
We wish to receive a ratification of the treaty of
peace, and I hope that every article in it will be
scrupulously adhered to on our part.

With sincere regard and esteem I am, dear sir,
your most obedient servant,

John Jay.

422 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

MR. S. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, April 19, 1784.

My Dear Sir,
Mr. Higgenson was so obliging as to show me
your letter to him dated the 4th of March. I was
happy in having adopted an opinion of the Cin-
cinnati so similar to what I found your's to be. I
think I am as sensible as any man ought to be of
the important services of our late army, and am
very desirous that their full share of merit may
be gratefully acknowledged and rewarded by the
country. This would have been done (for the
prejudice of the people against the gratuity of five
years' pay began to subside,) had they not adopt-
ed a plan so disgustful to the common feeling. It
appears wonderful that they could imagine that
a people who had freely spent their blood and
treasure in support of their equal rights and liber-
ties could so soon be reconciled to the odious he-
reditary distinction of families. This country must
be to a great degree humiliated and debased be-
fore they will patiently bear to see individuals
stalking with their assumed honorary badges, and
proudly boasting, " These are the distinctions of
our blood." I cannot think that many of our offi-
cers entertained such an idea of haughty pre-emi-
nence ; but the human mind is so captivated with
the thought of being elevated above the ignoble

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY. LS9

vulgar, that their sons, if they should not them-
selves, when they percci\ e the multitude mown
giddy with gazing, may assume mora than the
mere pageantry of nobilitj. When mea begin to

applaud themselves, they are not easily persuaded
to believe they can take a greater share of honour
than justly belongs to them. They Will be pick-
ed with the adulatory speeches of other men, and
flatter themselves that they are entitled to power
and authority, as well as the ostentatious show of
superiority above their equals. I confess I do not
barely dislike the order. With you I think it
dangerous, and look upon it with the eye of jea-
lousy. When the pride of family possesses the
minds of men, it is threatening to the community
in proportion to the good they have done. The
unsuspecting people, when they are in a mood to
be grateful, will cry up the virtues of their bene-
factors, and be ready to say, Surely those men
who have done such great things for us will never
think of setting up a tyranny over us. But even
patriots and heroes may become different men
when new and different prospects shall have al-
tered their feelings and views ; and the undiscern-
ing people may too late repent that they have
suffered them to exalt themselves and their fami-
lies on the ruins of the common liberty. The
Cincinnati are very unpopular here. You will
w7onder then that one of the order has had a ma-
jority of the votes of this town for a senator for

424 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the county. I am afraid the citizens are not so
vigilant as they used and still ought to be. It
was given out at the moment of election that he
intended to withdraw himself from the society.
If he does, it may weaken their influence ; if not,
he will probably destroy his own. You have
doubtless seen the sentiments of the general court
of the order. The reprobating speech of the gov-
ernour of South Carolina has been published here.
I had the pleasure of receiving by the same
post your several letters of the 15th, 20th and
24th ult. If I have a seat in the general court
the ensuing year, (which is uncertain) I shall with
great reluctance communicate your intention to
leave congress, unless you will gratify the earnest
wishes of your friends by altering your determina-
tion. I assure you there is no friend to our coun-
try within my circle, who is not solicitous for your
continuance longer. I was in hopes, when you
was prevailed upon again to take a seat you would
have held it at least two years. Let me entreat
you to release me from the obligation of comply-
ing with your request. Adieu,

Samuel Adams.

MR. SAMUEL ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, April 23, 1784.

My Dear Sir,
I observe by the enclosed newspaper, that the
Cincinnati in congress assembled are to meet at

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 425

Philadelphia on the 5th of May, and that general
Washington is to preside. That gefltfemah has
an idea of the nature and tendency of the ordet
very different from mine, otherwise I am certain
he would never have given it his sanction. I look
upon it to be as rapid a stride towards an heredi-
tary military nobility as ever was made in so short
a time. My fears may be ill grounded ; but if
they are not, it is impossible for me not to think
it a great misfortune to these states that he is a
member ; for the reputation he has justly acquired
by his conduct while commander in chief of our
armies, and the gratitude and warm affection
which his countrymen do and ought to feel to-
wards him will probably give wreight to any thing
he patronizes, and lustre to all who may be con-
nected with him. It is a tribute due to the man
who serves his country well to esteem him highly
and confide in him. We ought not however to
think any man incapable of errour. But so it is
with the bulk of mankind, and even in a free
country ; they reprobate the idea of implicit faith,
and at the same time, while the impression of
gratitude is deep in their minds, they will not
admit that of a benefactor, which must be said of
every man, aliquando dormitat. I would never
inculcate abase and envious suspicion of any man,
especially of those who have rendered signal ser-
vices to their country. But there is a degree of
watchfulness over all men possessed of power or
426 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

influence, upon which the liberties of mankind
much depend. It is necessary to guard against
the infirmities of the best as well as the wicked-
ness of the worst of men. Such is the weakness
of human nature, that tyranny has perhaps oftener
sprung from that than any other source. It is this
that unravels the mystery of millions being en-
slaved by a few. What was it that induced the
Cincinnati gentlemen, who have undertaken to
deliberate and act upon matters which may essen-
tially concern " the happiness and future dignity
of the American empire," to admit foreign mili-
tary subjects into their society ? Was there not
danger before that a foreign influence might pre-
vail in America ? Do not foreigners wish to have
weight in our councils? Can such a junction of
the subjects of different nations, (and those na-
tions widely differing in their principles of govern-
ment) to deliberate upon things which relate to
the union and national honour, the happiness and
future dignity of one consist with sound policy ?
Are we sure that these two nations will never
have separate views, and very national and inter-
ested ones too, because they once united in the
same object, and it was accidentally their mutual
interest to fight side by side ? If we could admit
that the Cincinnati had a right to erect them-
selves into an order for the national purposes of
their institution, had they a right to call in foreign
aid for those purposes ? It appears to me as im-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE (JERRY. 1 J7

politic, preposterous and dangerous as it would lie
for the United States to invito and admit a dele-
gation from that foreign power into their congress.
I take notice that the committee of conjrress
propose that the governments of the ten m w
states to be formed shall be in republican form,
and shall admit no person to be a citizen who
holds any hereditary title. I hope congress will
not fail to make this an indispensable condition.
Believe me to be,

Your sincere and affectionate friend,

Samuel Adams.
Hon. Mr. Gerry.

MR. JOHN ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

April 25, 1785.

•* * * * What is to be done with the Cincin-
nati ? Is that order of chivalry, that inroad upon
our first principle, equality, to be connived at ? It
is the deepest piece of cunning yet attempted. It
is sowing the seeds of all that European courts
wish to grow up among us, viz. of vanity, ambi-
tion, corruption, discord and sedition. Are we so
dim-sighted as not to see, that the taking away
the hereditary descent of it will not prevent its
baneful influence ? Who will think of preventing
the son from wearing a ribbon and a bit of gold
that his father wore ? Mankind love to see one

428 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

child at least of every beloved and respected father
possessed of his estate, his office, &c. after his
decease. Besides, when once the people begin
to think these marks rewards, these marks are
soon considered as the only proofs of merit. Such
marks should not be adopted in any country where
there is virtue, love of country, love of labour.
When virtue is lost ambition succeeds. Then in-
deed ribbons and garters become necessary, but
never till then. Then indeed these should be
public rewards conferred by the state, the civil
sovereign, not private men or bodies. I have been
asked, why I have not written against it ? Can it
be necessary for me to write upon such a thing ? I
wrote twenty years ago some papers which have
been called an essay on the feudal law, in which
rny sentiments and the sentiments of our ancestors
are sufficiently expressed concerning all such dis-
tinctions and all orders of chivalry and nobility.
But, sir, while reputations are so indiscreetly
puffed, while thanks and statues are so childishly
awarded, and the greatest real services are so
coldly received, I had almost said censured, we
are in the high road to have no virtues left, and
nothing but ambition to reward. Ribbons are not
the only reward of ambition. Wealth and power
must keep them company. My countrymen give
reputations to individuals that are real tyrannies.
No man dare resist or oppose them. No wonder
then that such reputations introduce chivalry, &c.

LIFE OF ELRR1DGE GERRY. 429

without opposition, though without authority. The
cry of gratitude, gratitude, is mutual magnetism :
it bewitches all mankind, and has established 61 cry
tyranny, imposture and usurpation that ever exist-
ed upon earth ; so true are those words ot Machi-
avel, " Not ingratitude, but too much love, is the
constant fault of the people." 'This is a subject
that requires a volume ; and you see I am in haste.
I could not have believed, if I had not seen it,
that our officers could have adopted such a scheme,
or the people, the Legislatures or congress have
submitted to it one moment. I don't wonder at a
marquis de la Fayette or a baron Steuben : they
were born and bred to such decorations and the
taste for them. From the moment that captain
Jones had his cross of merit bestowed by the kinu
and consented to by congress, I suspected that
some such project was in contemplation. Awful,
my friend, is the task of the intelligent advocate
for liberty. The military spirit, the ecclesiastical
spirit, the commercial spirit, and innumerable other
evil spirits are eternally devising mischief to his
cause and disturbing his repose. It is a constant
warfare from the cradle to the grave without comfort,
thanks, or rewards, and is always overcome at last.
Is not this institution against our confederation ?
Is it not against the declarations of rights in
several of the states ? Is it not an act of sove-
reignty disposing and creating of public rewards
presumptuously enterprized by private gentlemen ?

430 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Is the assembly a lawful assembly ? Is it not cruel
to call this a club for private friendship, or a society
for charity for officers' widows and children ?
Would even such a society be lawful without the
permission of the legislature ? Is it not substituting
honour for virtue in the infancy of a republic ?
Must it not introduce and perpetuate contests and
dissentions, pernicious in all governments but es-
pecially in ours ? Is it not an effectual subversion
of our equality ? Inequalities of riches cannot be
avoided as long as nature gives inequality of under-
standing and activity. And these inequalities are
not unuseful. But artificial inequalities of decora-
tions, birth and title not accompanying public
truth, are those very inequalities which have ex-
terminated virtue and liberty, and substituted am-
bition and slavery in all ages and countries. I
don't wonder that the word, republican, is odious
and unpopular throughout the world. I don't
wonder that so few, even of the great writers,
have admired this form of government. Plato
himself, I am fully persuaded from his writings,
was not a republican. It is the best of govern-
ments while the people are republicans, i. e. vir-
tuous, simple and of independent spirit. But
when the people are avaricious, ambitious and
vain, instead of being virtuous, poor and proud, it
is not. A republican is an equivocal title ; a
Dutchman, a Genoese, a Venetian, a Swiss, a
Genevan and an Englishman are all called repub-

LIFE 01' ELBRIDGE GERRY.

licans. AmODg all these shades you will BCarcelj
find the true colour. Our countrymen m;i\ be the
nearest ; but there is so much wealth among them
and sueh an universal rage o£ avarice, that 1 often
fear they will only make their real republicans
miserable for a few years, and then beeome like
the rest of the world. If this appears to be their
determination, it is not worth the while of you
and me to die martyrs to singular notion^. \ on
are young and may turn fine gentleman yet I
am too old, and therefore will retire to Pen's Hill,

The world forgetting, by the world forgot.

I am, my dear sir, your sincere friend,

John Adams.
Hon. Mr. Gerry.

Such, with a multitude of others of a similar
kind, were the letters that from eminent and inttl-
ligent public agents were directed to Mr. Gerry
on the question, which then agitated the United
States. But the fears of these great men and their
prophesies were alike illusory. The Cincinnati
changing some of the details of their original plan
persevered in their design, and remain a standing
monument of the utter harnilcssness with which
private institutions, in theory the most objectiona-
ble, may exist among a people educated, intelli-
gent and free.

432 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Another subject, already alluded to, was the
providing a military force in time of peace. Ob-
sta principiis was the motto of the Massachusetts
delegation. On the first suggestion of so obnox-
ious a measure, they communicated their senti-
ments to*the general court by letter of 4th June
1784.

" We have endeavoured," they say, " to obtain
an act for exonerating the states of New-Hamp-
shire and Massachusetts from the expense incur-
red by these states in consequence of a detention
of part of their lines after 3d November last ; but
notwithstanding the justice of the demand was
generally admitted, congress could not be prevail-
ed on to comply with it unless we would consent
to a military peace establishment. This was re-
peatedly and strenuously urged ; but being princi-
pled against it, we in conjunction with the other
New-England states gave it a vigorous opposition,
for the following, among other reasons :

1st. We conceived that the states had not ex-
pressly given to congress such powers, and there-
fore they could not exercise them consistently
with the second article of the federal confedera-
tion.

2dly. We were clearly of opinion that when the
confederation was ratified the legislature had no
intention of granting to congress a power of rais-
ing standing armies in time of peace, more es-
pecially as the same construction, which will en-

LIFF OF BLBftiDGE (.r.KKY. 1. 1.)

able congress to raise a few men for a short time
may extend their powers indefinitely, both as i<»
the number of men and term of enlistment.

3cll y. We conceived the measure to be altoge-
ther unnecessary, because the United States, be-
ing remote from nations which have standing ar-
mies, may by disciplining their militia, the con-
stitutional and only safe defence of republican
governments, save the grievous expense of a for-
midable peace establishment, which would inevi-
tably ensue if once a precedent for exercising so
dangerous a power by congress should be admitted.

4thly. We were fully persuaded, even if it were
necessary that congress, for guarding the posts and
magazines in time of peace, should have power to
raise a few troops, this ought to be limited by an
express article of the confederation.

When all the proceedings on this subject, which
will be soon printed and transmitted in the jour-
nals, are seen, we trust the honourable legislature
will express their sentiments either directly to
congress or by instructions to their delegates.

We are happy to inform the legislature that
every attempt for raising troops by requisitions
has been thus far defeated."

This communication was submitted to a com-
mittee, and on their report the leii'islature resolved
"that the conduct of the delegates respecting a
peace establishment as expressed in their letter

merits the highest approbation of the legislature,
434 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

standing armies being dangerous to free states in
time of peace, and that the legislature should by
an incessant attention endeavour to regulate, and
at all times cause their numerous militia to be well
disciplined, as the best and most proper defence
of a free republic."

The sensitiveness, which the patriots of the re-
volution discovered on the subject of a military
force, indicates the school in which they received
the first practical lessons of liberty. A govern-
ment inclined to extort from them a surrender of
their political rights had imposed terms and obli-
gations to which they would not submit, and to
enforce the necessity of submission, to compel the
acquiescence which would not have been willing-
ly yielded, they placed in the arm of power the
weapons of military offence. The result was con-
troversy, bloodshed and death. Tyranny, as it
was called on one side, rebellion, as resistance
was stigmatized on the other, met in lines of
battle, and the proximate cause of the general
desolation it extended through the community,
was considered to be the military force. Hence
the doctrine of the popular party resolved itself
into an axiom of republican liberty, and every
patriot subscribed to the universality of the prin-
ciple that standing armies are dangerous in time
of peace.

The principle is still true, but the assertion may
as well be made in reference to any other part of

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 435

the machinery of government. Its danger results
from its abuse, and it s liability to abuse from the
anti-republican opposition between the government

and the people.

In their condition as colonies the people of Mas-
sachusetts were controlled by a government, in
the choice of which they had no influence, and
with which there was no sympathy or common
feeling. The danger to liberty proceeded from
the wrong organization of the government, which
established itself as an oppressor, and the people
as a body to be oppressed. In such a condition,
the military or any other force that increased the
power of the ruler, was like the ruler himself
dangerous to liberty.

The case changes when the people form their
own government, and when of course all its power
is a mere variety of the popular power, and can
be voted down quietly at the ballot boxes by the
sovereignty of the people's will. A military pow-
er under these circumstances can never be brought
to bear on the rights of the citizen. It may be
objectionable from the expense of its establish-
ment, from the natural tendency it has to try its
strength with its neighbours and thus lead to war,
or by its influence in extending a martial spirit
and exciting too great a fondness for the military
character in opposition to the employments of
civil life ; but it is not easy to see how, under the
protection of free institutions, any very reasonable

436 LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY.

jealousy can exist toward that military force which
such institutions may always limit and control.

Attachment to the " manners, feelings and prin-
ciples" which led to the revolution should not in-
duce us to follow out to an erroneous extent the
opinions of its leaders. The condition of the
American people in the society of nations, the
vast extent of their territory and the unexpected
defence of it they may be called to make, require
the constant presence of a military force ; and it
would be unfortunate if any theoretical principles
should undermine its existence.

The militia too, is as has been said, the consti-
tutional and only safe defence of republican govern-
ments. Constitutional undoubtedly, and safe too
as far as they are competent, but in the present
advancement of the military art wholly inadequate
to this paramount duty.

The occasions in which their prowess has been
felt are such as either, from the remarkable char-
acter of their leader or the peculiar position of
their strength, have given them a weight not to
be often calculated on in the chances of war ; and
wherever they have been employed, a prodigality
of life both by disease and the sword has proved
the excessive waste with which they are called to
the field.

An armed population is one only among the
means of national defence. The argument is not
weakened by admitting the doubtful principle that

LIFE OF ELIJKIDCi: (.T.KUY. \M

it is the best. All that is contended for is, that it
is not the only reliance either in actual or probable
war, and that tlie.se abstract opinions of revolution-
ary worthies, demanding as tlitv .mainly do our
highest consideration, should not be adopted on
their authority without drat considering what the
peculiar circumstances of tlieir condition taught
them, and what fatal experience has since unibld-
ed to us.

The other topics upon which the delegates, in
pursuance of their instructions, addressed the le-
gislature of Massachusetts were of a more local
and temporary character. The arrangement of
the public accounts and various pecuniary or indi-
vidual concerns formed the chief subjects of cor-
respondence. Measures relating to the adjust-
ment, by the intervention of congress and bv the
agency of referees, or as they were styled, a fede-
ral court, of the dispute between Massachusetts
and New-York of jurisdiction o\er a tract of ter-
ritory west of the Hudson claimed by both states,
gave occasion to frequent communications, the
importance of which ceased with the fortunate
termination of the controversy.

The aoverument of the United States after the
adjournment of congress in June 1784, was con-
ducted for a time by a committee of the states
appointed in pursuance to an article of the con-
jederation. The committee possessed the chief
part of the powers of congress.

The progress of their deliberations was not very

438 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

flattering. The active members of congress had
been worn down with the fatigue of a long ses-
sion, and were desirous of returning home ; so that
the committee of the states, with one or two ex-
ceptions, consisted of members who were not the
most remarkable for their industry or capacity for
public business. It was some days after the pe-
riod fixed for their meeting before a quorum as-
sembled ; and so unsteady was their attendance
that no business could easily be done. Mr. Dana,
who was selected for Massachusetts, and who not
having been in his seat in congress, to which he
had but recently been elected, was prepared with
his usual energy to proceed with the public busi-
ness, thus writes from the committee room.

MR. DANA TO MR. GERRY.

Annapolis, June 28, 1784.

My Worthy Friend,
I write you at this time not because I have any
thing important to communicate to you, but that
you may know I have not, and be persuaded that
I have not forgotten you. The day of the ad-
journment of the committee of the states having
arrived we met accordingly ; i. e. for New-Hamp-
shire, Mr. Blanchard ; Massachusetts, Mr. Dana ;
Pennsylvania, Mr. Hand ; Virginia, Mr. Hardy ;
South Carolina, Mr. Read ; but there not being

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. I.J9

a sufficient numbei to proceed to business, the
committee adjourned to eleven o'clock this <l;i\ ;
tlicn present as above, and for Man land, Mr.
Chase. The committee then adjourned to eleven
o'clock to-morrow, when, it is said, Delaware,
North Carolina and Georgia a\ ill be represent-
ed; in which case we shall have a quorum for
business. The first we shall take up will probablj
be the appointment of a federal court, upon the
claims of the citizens of Connecticut and of Penn-
sylvania* Mr. Wilson has already arrived upon
that business. By the way, he informs me that
Longchamps has been convicted of the notable in-
fraction, &c. ; but no sentence had been passed
when he left Philadelphia. It seems their judges,
bar and all, agreed in opinion that the laws of na-
tions applicable to the subject are to be considered
as the law of the land. Of this I yet have my
doubts. It seems also that upon this ground the
culprit has been demanded as a subject of his
most christian majesty, to be sent to Trance. It
might be advisable for our legislatures to pass de-
claratory laws touching the extent or adoption of
the law of nations relative to the infractions oi
the immunities of ambassadors and other public
ministers, and other matters, agreeablj to the r< -
commendations of congress of the 23d of Novem-
ber 1781. Recommendations of this sort, though
important in themselves, are too often laid aside
by the legislatures till they are forgotten : and if

440 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

they are brought up into remembrance, it is by
the happening of cases for which remedies were
intended by congress, and ought in their nature to
have been provided previously. To prevent evils
of this kind, as well as to procure certain benefits
to the union, I have presumed, in my letter of the
] 1th instant to the general assembly, to submit to
their consideration, "Whether it would not be ex-
pedient that a committee should be appointed by
the legislature, at the commencement of every
session, to examine the public letters of their de-
legates, whether written to the legislature or the
governour, and also the journals of congress as
they shall be transmitted ; and to make a report
upon any matter which they shall find in either
requiring the attention of the legislature." By
such a measure, the affairs of the union would be
regularly brought under the consideration of the
legislature, and in due season they would acquire
a habit of attending to them ; and besides, con-
gress would save themselves the trouble and avoid
the shameful necessity, into which they are often
driven, of reiterating their recommendations to the
several legislatures. The journals of congress are
not yet printed up to the day of their adjourn-
ment ; when they shall be, I will forward your's.
Adieu, my dear sir.

Yoiii's, &lc. &c.

Francis Dana.
Hon. Elbridge Gerry, Esq.

LIFE OF ELIiRlDGE GERRY. 441

MR. DANA TO MR. GERRY.

Annapolis, June 20, 1784.

My Worthy Friend,
If I mistake not, I have already answered your
last favour, of the 22d of last month, from Phila-
delphia. I will however touch upon some parts
which I do not recollect to have particularly no-
ticed in my answer. I agree you have attacked
my position, " that out of politics you are out of
your element," with your wonted ingenuity, and
shall be thoroughly satisfied if you keep out of
them for a short time, with a view of entering
bona fide into the holy state of matrimony. There
are many duties incumbent upon us in this life,
perfectly consistent with each other ; but unless
you can settle it in your own mind, that a proper
attention to the woman of your choice will not
require of you a renunciation of your political ca-
reer, I must urge it upon you to remain as you
are ; for without flattery, my friend, I know of no
one in our state whose experience and abilities
have better fitted him to assist in the deliberation
and guidance of our great national concerns : and
it appears there never was a moment which called
louder for the attention of such characters to them.
This is the period when fatal precedents must be
guarded against. Our federal constitution is in
442 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

its infancy, and there seems to be in many places
a rage for mending, or rather marring it. 1 do
not here allude to any amendment proposed by
congress ; such as changing the rule for apportion-
ing the general expense upon the several states,
or even the vesting congress with a power to re-
gulate our trade with foreign countries, so far as
is at present in view. You well enough know to
what characters and opinions I do allude. To be
short upon this point, I find our state have again
honoured us with their suffrages as their delegates;
and as my private affairs after so long an absence
indispensably require my attention, to prevent
their running into absolute confusion, I shall feel
myself fully justified in declining the choice for
the next congress ; and I shall do it without any
concern for our interests or those of the union in
general, if you give your attendance in congress.
Remember the important matters which have been
effected of late by your personal exertions and
perseverance, and which, I verily believe, would
not otherwise have been obtained. I know your
feelings must have been frequently very sensibly
touched by that sort of barbarous opposition you
have met with ; but have you not almost constant-
ly borne it down and carried your points ? And
what grateful sensations and reflections hath suc-
cess brought along with it ! I renew my charge
to you then ; 'persevere.

I had no intention of giving any observations of

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 443

my own upon the protest, but I wished some might
be made upon it by others more able.

We have made up a table of New-Hampshire,
Massachusetts, New-Jersey and Pennsylvania, and
I believe it hath been productive of some good ;
but where some persons are totally disinclined to
do business, and are fatigued at the very sight of
it ; whose assistance is besides indispensably ne-
cessary, for we have yet only nine states on the
floor, every thing must be at a stand. From such
causes we have hitherto done very little business.
Yet the burthen of this is so great, that some will
insist upon adjourning every Saturday, for the
benefit of their health, and because they have not
been accustomed to do business on that day ; and
I will add, nor on any other day. Vexed at the
attempt last Saturday, I called for the yeas and
nays upon the question, but it was carried against
me. The barrenness of our journal makes me
ashamed. I will soon quit a place where public
business cannot be done, and retire home to do
my private business. This I shall do the begin-
ning of next month.

Although I can't entertain you with any of our
doings, yet it may be acceptable to you to learn
that North Carolina has granted the impost and the
supplementary revenues, acceded to the proposed
alteration in the eighth article of the confedera-
tion and directed the time of service of their dele-
gates to commence agreeably to that, vested con-

444 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

gress with a power to regulate trade with foreign
nations, and finally ceded all the territory they
claimed west of the Apalachian or Alleghany moun-
tain lying between that, their northern and south-
ern boundary and the Mississippi. All this, I
think, is well done. South Carolina has granted
the impost, but not the supplementary revenues, nor
the power to regulate trade with foreign nations,
but only with the West Indies : this last is an act
of some standing, and was intended as a retalia-
tion for the royal proclamation. Virginia has
granted the impost and vested congress with a
power to regulate trade with foreign nations, and
hath acceded to the proposed alteration of the
eighth article of the confederation. All these acts,
excepting the Virginia impost act, have lately been
laid before the committee of the states by their
respective delegates. We have just heard that
Rhode-Island has rejected the impost bill by a
very great majority. I think this not to their
honour. But what can be done with such a peo-
ple ? Must our whole system be overthrown by

their ? Fill up this blank according to

their demerits.

This day we have received a letter from Mr.
Marbois, acquainting us that upon the application
of some of our merchants, his majesty had permit-
ted their vessels on their way to the Indies to stop
at the islands of France and of Bourbon, to refresh,
&c. Not a word yet of the famous culprit, except

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 445

that he has been convicted. I propose in my way
home to visit the Dutch minister, and shall be
ready to return the visit of Mr. Charge d'affaires
if he should think proper to make me one.

I have already spoken of the adjournment of
last Saturday. Monday and this day we adjourn-
ed for want of numbers ; Georgia being absent at
the call of the house yesterday, and Virginia and
Georgia to-day. Thus have we lost three days
through mere indolence or inattention.

July 23, 1784.

Your letter of the 12th from Providence has
just come to hand. I feel vexed and grieved at
the doings of the general assembly of that state.
I wish gentlemen in public life would learn to
control their resentments, and to be guided in pub-
lic measures by a cool judgment. Let us not
despair yet however of carrying the present sys-
tem into effect : it is too important to the union
to be suddenly abandoned. What can be substi-
tuted in its place ? It must be tried on again
when some men's passions shall have subsided.
We have not yet had any addition to our repre-
sentation. I shall quit the ground in company
with Mr. Blanchard towards the beginning of next
month, and shall hope for the pleasure of seeing
you chez jious as soon after my return as may suit
your convenience. You will doubtless have occa-
sion to go to Boston, and you must take a little

446 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

circuit to Cambridge. In the mean time I am
most sincerely,

Your's, &c.

Francis Dana.

The session of the committee was abruptly ter-
minated. The public journal speaks enigmatical-
ly. In the record of the 9th August it is inserted
that "a motion being made by Mr. Hand, second-
ed by Mr. Spaight, and notice given that the yeas
and nays would be required ; during the debate
New-Hampshire withdrew ; whereupon the com-
mittee of the states adjourned to ten o'clock to-
morrow." No quorum convened afterwards, and
the committee having caused a protest to be en-
tered that the members from Massachusetts, New-
Hampshire and New-Jersey had left the city with-
out leave and thereby broke up the meeting, sepa-
rated on the 13th August.*

The motion alluded to in the journal, but which
the secretary has not set down, was a censure on
the member from Massachusetts, in retaliation for
his severity in confining, or attempting to confine
the committee to its work. It is explained in a

* The proceedings which thus unexpectedly terminated the
session of the committee of the states was according to custom
duiy reported to the legislature of Massachusetts, who passed a
vote of approbation, highly honourable to the reputation of their
delegate.

LIFE OF EEBRIDGE GERRY. 447

letter from the member of the committee from
New-Hampshire.

MR. BLANCH ARD TO MR. GERRY".

New-York, Aug. 17, 1784.

Mr Dear Sir,

I have now the pleasure of addressing a line
from this city, where I arrived the last evening.
Mr. Dana tarried at Philadelphia to settle his ac-
count, but I expect his arrival to-morrow.

We (the committee) have not heard any thing
of settlement since you left congress.

I hope you will not censure us for leaving An-
napolis : we tarried until the 11th in a disagree-
able situation enough ; at no time more than nine
states, and of course one voice put a stop to any
debate. Mr. Dana introduced a motion for an ad-
journment to Trenton, second Monday in Septem-
ber. New-Hampshire, Massachusetts, New-Jer-
sey, North Carolina and South Carolina were in
favour of it, the other states were against it. Mr.
Dana and myself told the committee that we were
unwilling to tarry, being under necessity of return-
ing to our states, and nothing to do in the committee.
The week before last no representation from Mary-
land and no quorum. Monday last week Hand in-
troduced a scandalous motion ; Spaight seconded it.
Mr. Dana rose after the reading from the chair, and

448 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

with great spirit observed that the motion was
cruel and barbarous, and by no means such treat-
ment as the mover had experienced from New-
Hampshire and Massachusetts. The design was
to cast an odium on Mr. Dana and myself for
leaving the committee. Hand rose to reply to
Mr. Dana, and I took my hat and cane and left
the room. Soon after I got to Mrs. Brice's the
deputy secretary came to me with a message from
the chairman, to know if I were about returning.
I observed, that I was writing a public letter, and
could not. Read then rose and hallooed so that
he might be heard through town, and insisted that
the motion should be put on the journal. Mr.
Dana insisted that it should not, and told the sec-
retary to put it on at his peril ; and so the matter
rests. We were under no concern from our states,
and could move an amendment, or to strike out ;
but I supposed the shortest way would be, to put
a stop to it directly. Hand, Chase, Read, Hardy,
Spaight and Houston treated us scandalously.
Mr. Dana and I wished for a constitutional ad-
journment, and treated them with great decency
to procure it, but all to no purpose. Mr. Dana
said he could not tarry, and would not ; and
if the committee refused to adjourn when they
could, they must answer for the consequences.
Mr. Dick came off with us, and latterly has be-
haved pretty well. There remains no prospect of
a committee again. Such men are unfit to gov-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 449

em this country. When we came to Philadelphia

we acquainted Thompson with the matter : lie
said he should order the papers to Trenton. Mr.
Dana's health is improved and mine is good, but
the heat intense. We hope soon to see our con-
nexions and friends ; and few more so than Mr.
Gerry. I enclose a paper.

Pray accept my best wishes for a continuance
of your health, being in great haste,
My dear sir,

Your most obedient servant,

J. Blanchard.
Hon. Mr. Gerry.
450 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER XXVI.

Correspondence with Mr. Jefferson Letter to the Legislature of

Massachusetts Letter from Mr. J. Adams General de La-
fayette Correspondence ivith General Warren.

Mr. Gerry lingered at Philadelphia on his re-
turn from congress. Whatever he might have ap-
prehended as a senator from the undue influence
of that city on the deliberations of a political as-
sembly, as a gentleman he was delighted with the
charms of its refined and elegant society, into the
amusements of which he always entered with
avidity, and was received with the utmost cor-
diality and regard.

Distinguished as he then was in the councils of
his country, young, wealthy, without the cares of
a family, flattered, courted and caressed by the
polite and fashionable society of that gay me-
tropolis, and by the literary and learned cote-
ries which already marked its intellectual im-
provement, and with a disposition that peculiarly
attached him to the elegant pleasures of social
intercourse, it must have been with no small sacri-
fice of personal inclination that he had urged the
removal of congress from that city, and persever-
ingly opposed its return. But the city of Phila-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 451

dclphia had caused some jealousy in the mind
of the leaders of congress. Its wealth, its great
population, the very intercourse which was so
agreeable, was believed to be injurious to the
public councils. Some disaffection was excited
by the undue share which its citizens had in the
distribution of the public offices, and more from
a belief that the state in whose capital congress
held its session would acquire an improper weight
in its decisions. These causes produced in the
mind of many members a strong wish to change
the location of congress, which nevertheless was
opposed by the facilities for transacting pub-
lic business which the city presented as well
to individuals of the legislature as others who
were connected with the offices attached to it.
While these circumstances were in operation the
deliberations of congress were disturbed by a riot
of armed men, whose menacing appearance " in-
sulted the authority of the United States." On
the local government failing to take those steps,
which the dignity and safety of that body requir-
ed, a sufficient reason was found for removal, and
congress adjourned to Princeton in June 1783.

From these circumstances originated the plan
of a federal city, over which congress might exer-
cise exclusive jurisdiction. Two committees, of
each of which Mr- Gerry was chairman, were di-
rected to examine a suitable location at the lower
falls of the Potomac and in the vicinity of the

452 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

falls of the Delaware ; and on his motion, it was
resolved that congress should convene on the
banks of the Delaware and Potomac alternately;
and until suitable buildings could be erected they
should sit in Trenton and Annapolis by turns.
But the plan was not adhered to. The charms of
a great city allured, or the inconveniences of a
small one displeased the members. The confede-
ration dissolved before the new seats of govern-
ment could be built up, and the constitution of
the United States, afterwards adopted, contained
a provision on this subject to which the city of
Washington owes its existence.

While Mr. Gerry remained in Philadelphia Mr.
Jefferson arrived at Boston, from which place he
embarked on his mission to France. A parting
adieu to his friend is contained in the following
letter.

MR. JEFFERSON TO MR. GERRY.

Boston, July 2, 1784.

Dear Sir,
Being to sail from this port to-morrow, I cannot
deny myself the pleasure of recalling myself to
your recollection for a moment. I have impa-
tiently hoped your arrival here before I should
depart ; but I suspect that the belles of Philadel-
phia have exercised their power over you, for it is

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 153

there, I understand, you make your principal de-
lay. When I arrived here 1 found Mrs. Adams
within thirty-six hours of sailing. I had deter-
mined to take my passage to France in the first
instance, yet the wish to accompany Mrs. Adams
would certainly have induced me to relinquish this,
could I within so short a time have prepared for
embarkation. I was unable on this account to
attend her. Hearing of no vessel going from any
eastern port to France, I had in contemplation to
return to New-York and take my passage in the
French packet, which was to sail the 15th instant;
but it was suggested to me that I could with cer-
tainty get ashore on the coast of France some-
where from any vessel bound for London, and as
Mr. Tracy had a vessel to sail from hence the
third, which would save twelve days in the outset,
and probably as many more in the run, I engaged
my passage in her ; and with the more pleasure,
as he was to go himself in her. The intermediate
time I have employed in a trip to Portsmouth, in
order to gather in that state, as I had endeavoured
to do in the others through which I had passed,
such information as to their commerce and other
circumstances as might in some degree enable me
to answer the purposes of my mission. No small
part of the time too has been occupied by the
hospitality and civilities of this place, which I
have experienced in the highest degree. These,
with the preparations for my voyage, have left me

454 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

scarcely a spare moment; and receiving assurance
from every quarter that I might derive from Mr.
Tracy the fullest information as to the commerce
of this state, I have referred much of the enquiries
I wished to make to the vacant hours of our voy-
age. Pressed with the attentions necessary for
the winding up my affairs here and getting every
thing on board this forenoon, I have only time to
bid you an affectionate adieu, to thank you for the
many civilities to which you have assisted in intro-
ducing me here, to assure you of the pleasure it will
give me at all times to hear from you ; leaving
with Mrs. Cotton a token of my friendship for you,
which will remind you of me sometimes while
you have pen in hand, and which therefore you
must keep as a monitor on my behalf; and finally,
to wish you every felicity. From me you shall
certainly receive frequent accounts of whatever I
shall think worth your notice, and every other pos-
sible proof of the sincere esteem with which I am,
dear sir, your affectionate friend and servant,

Thomas Jefferson.

MR. GERRY TO MR. JEFFERSON.

Boston, Aug. 24, 1784.

My Dear Sir,
I returned to this place about a fortnight after
you left it, and received from Mrs. Cotton your

LIFE OF ELB1UDGF GFKRY. 155

friendly letter of the 2d July with an elegant tra-
velling desk, which I value most highly as a pledge
of your friendship.

On 12th May, you may remember that general
Knox was directed to open a correspondence with
general Haldiman, to ascertain the precise time
for his delivering up the western posts within the
jurisdiction of the United States. The officer
employed was colonel Hull, who has returned, and
says that general Haldiman informs him, that not
having received any orders, it is out of his power
to deliver up the posts, although he has certain
information of the ratification of the definitive
treaty. But the general further declared that he
should execute the orders whenever they arrived,
without any delay and with great pleasure, and
treated colonel Hull with marked politeness.

The Indian treaty seems to be at a stand, owing
to the different opinions in congress as to their
right to make requisitions for troops without the
consent of the legislatures in time of peace, and
also to the opposition of New-York in consequence
of the noncompliance by congress with the request
of that state for authority to raise five hundred
men for taking possession of the western posts.

The states of Massachusetts and New- York
claim a tract of western territory which the latter
have heretofore garrisoned. Massachusetts an-
nounced their claim to the New-York legislature,
and have petitioned congress for a federal court to

456 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

determine the jurisdiction.* Previous to this,
when it was proposed in congress to send part of
the troops retained at West Point by general
Washington to take possession of the western
posts, the delegates of New-York, pursuant to
their instructions, objected to the measure, be-
cause the troops were from Massachusetts, and the
posts, or part of them, were even within the juris-
diction, as New- York says, of that state. This
opposition of New- York and the dissent of some of
the states to any requisition for troops, produced
an opposition in other states to the employment
of the troops at West Point.

As it is conceived by the commissioners of con-
gress that troops are necessary to attend them in
the treaty, and as no troops are raised, nothing
will be done this year. The treasury ordonnance
has passed and commissioners are appointed. The
report for instructing the commissioners for settling
accounts is passed, and is enclosed. The commit-
tee of the states have adjourned sine die from want
of members to form a quorum. Accept the assur-
ance of my sincere regards.

I remain your affectionate friend,

E. Gerry.

His excellency Thomas Jefferson,

* According to the provision of the confederation, article ix.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE (JERRY. 457

MR. JEFFERSON TO MR. GERRY.

Paris, Nov. 11, 1784.

Dear Sir,
I received your favour of August 24. The af-
fairs of Europe have been during the summer
in an awful crisis : they have at length taken
their ultimate direction, which is for war. The
emperour had declared he would send a vessel
along the Scheld, and would consider a cannon
fired at her by the Dutch as a declaration of war.
They fired at her and forced her to return. His
ambassador at the Hague has left it without tak-
ing leave. He has put his troops into motion to-
wards the Scheld, as have the Dutch also. The
emperour's will probably not reach the Scheld be-
fore winter, but I suppose his object is to winter
them as near there as possible, that they may en-
ter on the field of action the earlier in the spring.
It seems doubted by none that the king of Prussia
will take part actively with the Dutch, and many
circumstances induce the same opinion as to this
country ; their late treaty with the Dutch, their
rivalry with the house of Austria, the improbability
that the Dutch would have ventured so far with-
out assurance of their aid, the long visit here by
prince Henry, who is just now departing, and the
friendly reception he has met with. The Pone
have procrastinated the settlement of their bound
458 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ary with the emperour, and have been making the
most vigorous preparations for war : we suppose
therefore that Holland, Prussia, France and the
Porte will be engaged with the two imperial
courts. There are at present no symptoms of any
other power taking a side : perhaps in the course
of the war all may be drawn in. I should suppose
it impossible for Great Britain to take a part ; her
inability to raise money and the state of affairs in
Ireland will prevent it. In this latter kingdom
she cannot be said to exercise government now.
We have not heard whether the congress of Oc-
tober 25th took place. They seem cold to the
advances we have made, and our accounts are,
that their people are extremely hostile towards us :
still they value our commerce and count surely on
monopolizing it with all the benefits of cabotage,
without a retaliating measure on our part. The
principle proposed by congress, of no trade where
there is no treaty, was wise in proposal and will
be equally so in the execution ; yet it is not be-
lieved on this side the water that the states can
be brought to concur in the measure or that con-
gress will execute it. I hope you will disappoint
them. All respect for our government is annihi-
lated on this side the water, from an idea of its
want of tone and energy. It is a dangerous opin-
ion to us, and possibly will bring on insults which
will force us into war.

I am very anxious to hear that your land office

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 459

is open. I am so well assured that that will re-
lieve you from your domestic debt and leave you
to direct your efforts against the foreign one, that
I count all delay as unfortunate. We have a
number of visionary schemes proposed here for
emigration to America, in hopes that congress,
besides other aids, will give the adventurers great
quantities of land. We tell them that congress
will pass a land ordinance, in which general regu-
lations will be laid down, to which all must con-
form who want lands, and that assuredly they will
not trouble themselves with receiving particular
applications or making particular bargains.

I shall hope to hear from you sometimes, and
am with sincere esteem, dear sir,

Your friend and servant,

Thomas Jefferson.

Hon. Mr. Gerry.

The interesting keepsake, which is mentioned in
Mr. Jefferson's first letter, was a portable writing
desk of a fashion not then common in the United
States. It haply survived the wreck of Mr. Ger-
ry's fortune, probably because its artificial value
was unknown, and continued even after his death
a memorial to his family of the fraternal intimacy
of these distinguished men.

Before Mr. Gerry's arrival in Boston the gene-

460 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ral court had re-elected him a delegate in congress
for the ensuing year.* The appointment being
officially communicated to him produced the fol-
lowing letter.

MR. GERRY TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE SENATE
AND SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESEN-
TATIVES OF MASSACHUSETTS.

Boston, Oct. 25, 1784.

Gentlemen,

Being informed by the secretary that the gene-
ral court have been pleased to continue me in the
delegation for the ensuing year, I am happy to
express the grateful sense I have of their confi-
dence and a sincere desire to promote the views
of the honourable legislature ; but the situation of
my private concerns prevents me at present from
leaving the state and renders it necessary to re-
quest that my place be supplied by a new appoint-
ment.

Enclosed is an account for attending congress
the last year. My expenses exceed the sum
charged, as will appear by the vouchers, but I
shall not receive more, as I have conformed to an
adjusted account of one of my colleagues. It is
submitted to the consideration of the honourable

* The election of some of the delegates was contested, but on
this and the former year Mr. Gerry received 141 out of 145 votes.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 461

legislature, whether it would not be advantageous

to the state to appoint a steward, and make him
accountable for the sums supplied for the subsist-
ence of the delegates, and at the same time au-
thorize him to act as their secretary in recording
and preserving the papers of the delegation, which
are often lost or destroyed when much wanted.

The situation of our federal concerns being in
many respects critical may justify me in a few
observations on the subject.

The support of the claim of this state to the
western territory may greatly depend on the ap-
pointment of the commissioners : if these are not
disinterested and impartial men, however just our
claim may be, there can be but little hope of sup-
porting it. The object in dispute is of great im-
portance, as the jurisdiction of the contested ter-
ritory, exclusive of what may be ceded to the
United States, would greatly add to the weight
and importance of this state, and the lands retain-
ed would be a valuable fund for sinking part, and
a very considerable part, of our public debt. Un-
der these circumstances, it may be necessary that
the delegates in general and the council for sup-
porting the claim of this state should attend the
institution of the court, as there can be no doubt
that every exertion will be made by the adverse
state to have on her part a favourable election.

It may also be of great importance that the
sense of the legislature should be known respect

462 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ing the power of congress to raise a standing army.
Some delegates at the close of the last session
were much in favour of the measure, and it was
reasonable to expect it, as they were military
gentlemen. But is it not incumbent on the citi-
zens of these states, before they take the first
step, to view so important a matter in all its con-
sequences ? If we have no standing army, the
militia, which has ever been the dernier resort of
liberty, may become respectable and adequate to
our defence ; more especially as we have many
brave and veteran officers to discipline the latter.
But if a regular army is once admitted, will not
the militia gradually dwindle into contempt ? And
where then are we to look for the defence of our
rights and liberties ? It may be unnecessary to
urge that the measure is equally unconstitutional
as it is impolitic, since the objections are fully
stated by the delegates in their letter of June last
to the legislature of this commonwealth.

The convention respecting consuls, which being
signed by our ministers, is sent for the ratification
of congress ; the expenses of the Penobscot expe-
dition ; the redemption of the extant bills of the
old emission and the reimbursement of the ex-
penses incurred by the citizens of this state in
consequence of the detention of part of the Mas-
sachusetts line after the army in general was dis-
banded, the three last of which were mentioned
in the letter referred to, are matters that may

LIFE OF ELRRIDGE GERRY. 163

require the immediate attention of the honourable
legislature and instructions to the delegates. Hav-
ing made these suggestions from a sense of duty,
I remain, &c.

E. Gerry.

On the receipt of this letter the senate invited
Mr. Gerry to a conference the next day upon the
important matters to which it related, but not-
withstanding its decided resignation of his public
office they refused to consider him released from
the service of the state.*

On this subject one of his clerical correspond-
ents thus addressed him : " It is in my way, you
know, to deliver a sermon, and I am glad I can

* The journals of the house contain the following entry.

Nov. 1, 1784. The honourable Mr. Litbgow brought down a
report of the committee of both houses on the letter of the hon-
ourable Elbridge Gerry, esquire, of the 25th ult. as follows: —

" The committee upon the letter of the honourable Elbridge
Gerry, esquire, of 25th October, have attended the duty assigned
them, and ask leave to report the following : That the paragraph
relating to Mr. Gerry's delegation as a member of congress from
this commonwealth does not amount to an absolute declension
of the appointment, unless he should be holdcn to immediate at-
tendance in congress, and that it is expedient to consider him as
a delegate from this commonwealth.

" That it is highly necessary the vacancies in the delegation
from this commonwealth should be immediately filled up. That
the gentlemen elected be required to give an immediate answei
of acceptance to or refusal of their appointment, and that three

464 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

preach to you in a manner to please myself. My
text is found in 21st chapter Matthew, 29th verse.
' He answered and said I will not, but afterwards
he repented and went.' This was the conduct of
the first son stated in the parable ; the other was
directly the reverse. In the simplicity of those
days the question that followed, Which of the
twain did the will of his father ? seems to have
been easily decided. I am glad I can give the
same reply now."

MR. J. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Auteuil, near Paris, Jan. 31, 1785.

Dear Sir,
I learn with much pleasure that you are again
in congress, at the head of a respectable delega-
tion, and that the states in general are so well
represented. Experience will show the necessity
of having that assembly composed of the best men,

members at least be enjoined to immediate attendance in con-
gress.

" That it will be eligible for this commonwealth to appoint a
secretary to their delegates and a steward to provide for their
subsistence ; these appointments involving with them, in the
opinion of your committee, the important articles of seasonable
information from the delegates, the dignity of the commonwealth,
and a real saving in expenditures."

The sum of 449/. Gs. was allowed Mr. Gerry by resolve of 10th
November for his services and expenses as a delegate to 12th
July preceding.

LIFE OF BLB&IDGE GERRY. 405

by whom I mean men of the most experience, the
best talents and greatest virtues. It is by these
alone that federal principles and feelings can he
made general and popular at the expense of partial
views and contracted prejudices. I see the people
have not lost sight of their old friends. They
have not cut away the scaffolds on which they
erected the building, but the same pillars which
upheld it in the storm support it in more beauty
and majesty in fair weather. I really feel an ear-
nest desire to be one of you, but when will that
be possible ? It is more agreeable to be at home,
among one's equals, and to enjoy some degree of
respect and esteem among those we feel a regard
for, than to be admired by strangers ; but to be in
a foreign country, among strange faces, manners,
languages, and looked at with terror ; rarely find-
ing a person who dares to speak to one, as has
been my case, Mr. Dana's, Mr. Jay's and others
for years together, is horrible ; oh, 'tis horrible !
It is better now, but still we are among strangers,
and we cannot live in character nor see that com-
pany which strangers in our stations ought to see.
Will you let me know what we are to do in
the article of money. My colleagues, Dr. Frank-
lin and Mr. Jefferson, and our secretary, colonel
Humphreys, as well as Mr. Carmichael and Mr.
Dumas will be dependent upon me, or at least
upon my bank, for their daily bread. This is an
humiliating idea, that I beg may not lie upon their
466 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

minds one moment. In order to prevent it, I hope
congress or their financiers will give instant orders
to me or to their bankers in Amsterdam to furnish
the money upon demand. It will be best perhaps
that the money should be furnished to Mr. Grand,
as usual, to be drawn out of his hands by Dr.
Franklin and Mr. Jefferson, as usual.

Spain and England will certainly not treat with
us here. England seems sure of our trade with-
out a treaty, and therefore chooses to be unbound,
and her ministers choose to avoid the clamour that
would arise against any treaty. What shall be
done ? There are but two things ; either to send
a minister to London according to the king's polite
invitation and try what can be done there, or com-
mence immediately the sour work of retaliation.
Will the states agree to exclude British ships from
their ports, and British manufactures, or any of
them ? And can such prohibitions be executed, or
high duties be levied ? Suppose you lay a heavy
duty upon every British vessel, or upon British
manufactures, to retaliate for the duty on oil,
&c, can you go through with it ? We have no
answers to any of the many things we have pro-
posed to the British ministry through the duke of
Dorset, and I really think nothing will ever be
done but by an exchange of ministers.

Dr. Franklin showed me yesterday a letter from
Mr. Jay, in which he says, " that the doctor's let-
ter requesting leave to return to America was

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 161

committed, and not reported on." You can judge
best from his letters whether he is sincere in his
request ; if he is, you will make a new arrange-
ment. He may be sincere, for a voyage seems to
be the only chance he has for his life. lie can
now neither walk nor ride, unless in a litter, but
he is strong and eats freely, so that he will soon
have other complaints besides the stone if he con-
tinues to live as entirely without exercise as he
does at present.

Mr. Morris has been so entirely trusted with
money matters, that 1 know not whether he has
ever informed congress of the immense sums of
money that I have paid upon his bills of exchange;
but I think it is time the people knew that they
have a gross interest to pay for near seven hun-
dred thousand pounds sterling that I have borrow-
ed for them and they have received in dollars, or
in cash for bills sold by Mr. Morris at advanta-
geous rates.

Your friend,

John Adams.

The seaports of New-England in the autumn of
1784 resounded with festivity, in consequence of
a visit from the marquis de Lafayette. Mr. Gerry
had the pleasure of receiving him at his own house,
and the inhabitants of Marblehead still point with
pleasure to the hospitable mansion, in which they

468 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

were introduced to the presence of this friend of
their country.

MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE TO MR. GERRY.

New- York, Dec. 19, 1784.
Dear Sir,

Before I embark for Europe give me leave once
more to present my respects to you and your col-
leagues in the delegation. It is a circumstance
truly distressing to me that I cannot this time pay
a second visit to my friends in Boston. The
pleasure of hearing from you will be received with
gratitude, and with my best wishes for your con-
tinental, state and private welfare,
I have the honour to be,

Very respectfully and affectionately,
Your's,

Lafayette.

Congress, which should have assembled at Tren-
ton on the 1st November 1784, did not form a
quorum for business until the 29th of the month.
They adjourned on the 24th December to meet at
New- York on the eleventh of January 1785.

The Massachusetts delegation had been requir-
ed by the legislature to attend early in the session,
and they arrived in a body on the 20th of De-
cember.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 4C9

MR. GERRY TO GENERAL WARREN.

Tkento*, Dec. 23, 1784.

My Dear Sir,

It is fortunate that we arrived here as we did,
for otherwise congress would by this time have
been in Philadelphia and the treasury in such
hands as you and I could not approve.

There was a stronger party formed against us
than I remember to have seen, but I think it will
subside and matters be in a good train again. We
have carried two great points to-day by passing
an ordinance, 1st. to appoint three commissioners
to lay out a district on the branch of either side of
the Delaware, within eight miles of this place, to
purchase the soil and enter into contracts for erect-
ing suitable buildings.

2dly. To adjourn to New- York and reside there
until suitable buildings are prepared. This I con-
sider a fortunate affair in every respect but one.
It is so disagreeable to our worthy secretary that
there is reason to apprehend he will resign his ap-
pointment.

We have been so happy also as to remove some
objections on the part of Mr. Jay to the accept-
ance of his office, and he yesterday took the oaths
and entered on the business of his department.*

* " Mr. John Jay was elected secretary for foreign affairs, hav-
ing been thereto previously nominated by Mr. Gerry." — Journals
of congress, May 7, 1784.

470 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

A report is now before congress for arranging the
war office, and I think general Knox will be ap-
pointed secretary of war. Be assured I am on
every occasion,

Your's sincerely,

E. Gerry.

GENERAL WARREN TO MR. GERRY.

Milton, Jan. 11, 1785.

My Dear Sir,
I yesterday received your's of the 23d ult. I
always thought your going to congress at this
time important, and the events have fully justified
the sentiment and shown that it was fortunate to
the country. It was indeed a crisis, and I am
exceedingly pleased with the conduct of congress
so far ; the points gained are great, and I hope
from the present appearances that others will fol-
low equally agreeable. I do not recollect that
any thing worthy your notice has taken place here
since you left us. The scarcity of money in con-
sequence of our excessive and extravagant impor-
tations of British frippery has occasioned stagna-
tion of trade, stopping discounts at the bank, and
other embarrassments and confusions. This coun-
try seems to be in danger of ruin, which nothing
can prevent but a reformation of manners and an
establishment of frugality in the room of that gene-

LIFE OF ELIilUDGE GFKRY. 471

ral profusion which has prevailed ; but when and
how that is to be effected is a question difficult to
be decided. The coin is gone, and no staple yet
established to restore it, and yet the infatuation
subsists. I don't sec but that we must look to
necessity for those effects, which every good man
might wish should be the consequence of virtue
and reason rather than fatal experience. Accept
the sincerest professions of friendship from

Your's,

J. Warren.
E. Gerry, Esq.

472 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER XXVII.

Letters from Mr. John Adams Mr. Jefferson Mr. Rufua

King Leaves Congress Marriage.

The most important affairs, which claimed at
this time the attention of congress, were the de-
tention of the western posts by the British troops
under the direction of their government, in the
obvious infraction of the treaty of peace, the con-
duct of the Spanish court respecting the naviga-
tion of the Mississippi, a demand made by the
French government for the delivery of one Long-
champs for an alleged violation of the law of na-
tions, in committing an assault on the public ac-
credited agent of that government in the United
States, and the general state of commercial af-
fairs ; to which may be added, as most interesting
to Massachusetts, the settling by authority of con-
gress under the confederation, a dispute with New-
York on the boundary line between the two states.
It was this last matter which had imperiously re-
quired the attendance of the delegates of Massa-
chusetts by the 21st December. The immediate
object being arranged, Mr. Gerry left the other

LIFE OF ELJJRIDGE GEKKY. 473

affairs of congress in the heads of his colleagues

and returned home.*

* The journals of the house of representatives of Massachu-
setts contain the following entries.

"March 14, 1785. Ordered, that a chair be assigned for the
honourable Elhridge Gerry to attend the debated of the bouse

whenever he may please, and that he be requested to attend to-
morrow morning at ten o'clock, for the purpose of informing
the house relative to such matters as may he asked of him.

"March 15. The honourable Mr. Gerry attended the hou><',
agreeably to their request. A message was sent to the honour-
able senate to inform them that the house were ahout to receive
communications from that gentleman, and that it would he in-
convenient to receive any messages at present.

"March 16. The honourable Mr. Sedgwick came down and
said that the senate were receiving communications from one of
the delegates in congress, [Mr. Gerry] and it would be inconve-
nient to receive any messages from the house at present, but
that the senate would inform the house when their conference
with that gentleman was over."

The interdiction of messages and assignment of a chair were
the then customary marks of respect. A chair was assigned
"to his excellency Thomas Jefferson, late governour of Virginia,
and now one of the commissioners for negociating treaties," June
12, 1784, and to the marquis de Lafayette 16th October of the
same year.

The etiquette of business between the two houses was much
more formal than the simplicity of present times admits. All
bills and reports of committees were carried from one house to
the other by members.

When governour Hancock [I8th February 1785] resigned the
chair, he was received with great formality in the representa-
tives' chamber, and the house voted, "that a chair be placed for
the honourable the speaker of the house of representatives in
front of the north side of the room in which the representati
sit, and that the representatives sit on that side. That a chair
be assigned for the honourable president of the senate, and the
seats on the south-west corner of the room for their members.
474 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

His connexion with the politics of the day was
preserved through the medium of correspondents.

MR. J. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Auteuil, near Paris, March i), 1785.

My Dear Sir,
You will see by our joint despatches that the
pope, Sardinia and Naples, by their answers, have
politely invited our vessels into their ports, but
have not accepted the proposition of treaties of
commerce. His holiness has gone as far, I be-
lieve, in his complaisance to us, as his maxims will
allow ; there being, as I believe, no example of a

That a committee be appointed to receive at the door the presi-
dent of the senate, and conduct him to his seat. But the hon-
ourable Mr. Lowell came down and said that the senate did not
agree to the assignment of seats for their members, as made by
the house, but if the usual seats were assigned, the senate would
accept them, otherwise they should stand on the floor. The
house reconsidered their vote, and assigned the usual seats.

Messages were announced by the door-keeper, who stood with
his hand upon the latch of the door until ordered to admit the
messenger. He was accidentally absent one day when a vene-
rable member of the house was in attendance with a message.
A junior member of the senate, who knew no difference in rank
between a door-keeper and a senator, seized the door and an-
nounced the message, and considered himself as having perform-
ed a very kind and serviceable act until the indignation of the
president, Samuel Adams, terrified the astonished member by
threatening an expulsion, for betraying the dignity of his station
and the body to which he belonged.

LIPB OF ELBRIDGE CEUKY. 175

treaty between his court and any protectant pow-
er. Naples probably waits for Spain. The mo-
tives of Sardinia, who has two daughters near the
throne of France, although he has ancient attach-
ments to England, are not so obvious.

Prussia will probably agree with us, or we shall
agree with him, as the points in discussion are not
essential, although some of them are of some im-
portance. From Portugal, Denmark and the em-
perour we have no decisive answers, nor from
Russia any answer at all. Spain and England
will continue, I suppose, to refuse treating here.
Mr. Hales, the British charge des affairs, told me
that his court were determined never to treat
here, and this declaration agrees with every in-
formation and all the circumstances that have
come to our knowledge. I think the invitation to
send a minister to London should be accepted, as
it is undoubtedly our place to send first, and as
the neglect of exchanging ambassadors will for-
ever be regarded as a proof of coldness and jea-
lousies by the people of England, the people of
America, and by all the courts and nations of
Europe. It is in vain to expect of us treaties of
commerce with England, while she will not treat
here and congress will not treat there. We can-
not force them to treat, and it is not expected
we should petition them : petitions would be neg-
lected now as much as ever. We can do no-
thing with the Barbary states without money and

476 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

orders to apply it. You know best whether it is
worth while to give fifty or sixty thousand guild-
ers a year to Algiers besides occasional presents
to the others.

France, Holland and Sweden, I suppose, will
act in concert, and neither agree to terms more
favourable than the others. Such is the opposi-
tion in France to the " arret du conseil d'etat du
roi concernant le commerce etranger dans les isles
Francoises de l'Amerique du 30 Aout 1784," that
I despair of persuading the ministry to venture
further in our favour. There is a general cry of
the merchants against that ordonnance. The com-
merce of Marseilles, Bourdeaux, Nantes, Rochelle,
St. Maloes and Havre de Grace have remonstrated
against it in strong and warm terms. The parlia-
ment of Bourdeaux too has joined in the clamour,
and the states of Bretagne came very near it.
The minister will stand firm to this ordonnance,
it is said, but I fear will be discouraged from ex-
tending his liberal sentiments still further.

We have, my friend, a delicate and difficult part
to act towards the powers of Europe. Our safest
course lies in a perfect impartiality to all. Pre-
dilections and attachments to any will be narrowly
watched, will be perceived and will endanger our
tranquillity and neutrality. Spain, France and
England will interest us and endanger us the most.
I wish that no means of settling all disputes with
the first and last may be neglected, and therefore

LIFE OF ELKKIDGiE GEKBV. 177

I advise the sending a minister to each; if lie suc-
ceeds, well; if not, WO. shall have nothing to re-
proach ourselves. We shall have done our duty
and all that was in our power.

I wait with impatience for the ratification of
my last loan in Holland and for orders what to do
with near a million of guilders in the hands of
your bankers at Amsterdam. You will remember
I have run you in debt near seven hundred thous-
and pounds sterling, that you have received in
dollars or drawn bills for it at an advantageous
exchange. I hope you have spent it wisely ; but
whether you have or not you ought to take mea-
sures to pay the interest. My Dutch friends will
throw me into one of their canals if you don't ful-
fil my engagements.

My respects to your colleagues, and believe me
your faithful friend and very humble servant,

JohiN Adams.

Hon. Elbridge Gerry, Esq.

THE SAME TO THE SAME.

Bath Hotjex., Westminster, June 26, 1785.

Dear Sir,
I have not time now to answer particularly two
or three letters which I have received from you.
You will give me great pleasure by persuading

478 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Mr. King to write to me. I have heard a great
character of him, and what is more, a good one.

I enclose you a pamphlet concerning the inter-
course between North America and the sugar co-
lonies.

I have met with a public reception here as re-
spectful and honourable as possible, but I am not
deceived by all that into a belief that we shall
soon obtain what we want. There is a reserve,
which signifies more to me than many fine speech-
es and pompous ceremonies. I shall soon write
more fully. Adieu.

John Adams,
Mr. Gerry.

THE SAME TO THE SAME.

Grosvenor Square, Aug. 26, 1785.

Dear Sir,

You will have seen by my public despatches
what prospects we have of any sudden arrange-
ment with this country.

I may be more free in a letter to you than I
have been in the public letters to Mr. Jay. There
is a mysterious reserve among the ministers, which
indicates either a want of unanimity among them
or a dissatisfaction towards us, or a timidity aris-
ing from the prejudices and passions of the na-
tion.

L1PB OF ELBKIDLJi: QERHVi 179

I am really at a loss to conjecture whether]
shall get any answer from them at all, or whether
I shall have an answer full of complaints of depar-
tures from the treaty on our side, and insisting on
a full compliance on our part, as a condition pre-
cedent to any further measures on theirs. There
is nothing for me to do but to exercise patience]
reminding them however from time to time that J
expect an answer. If the answer comes loaded
with complaints I shall answer them provisionally,
as far as I am clear, but if there is any matter in
which I am not fully informed, or of too grave a
nature for me to take upon myself, I shall take
time to obtain the instructions of congress.

I have no hopes of their agreeing to a treaty of
commerce or of their proposing one such as I can
agree to. Every treaty of commerce proposed by
them will be proposed only subject to the appro-
bation of parliament, and 1 am afraid that all other
parties would unite to defeat the present ministers
in any treaty of commerce, in order to obtain an-
other triumph like the vote against the peace in
Shelburne's time, and like the late rejection in
Ireland of the twenty resolutions. Mr. Pitt in-
deed declares to me that he does not wish merely
to lessen our navigation, but the nation is not of
his mind in my opinion. There is a national du-
plicity that is astonishing in their publications and
speeches : they affect to think lightly of America,
but they betray in many ways a dread of us ; an

480 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

opinion that a great rival nation has risen up like
a mushroom on the other side the Atlantic, against
them. I don't believe that an equal treaty of
commerce could be carried through parliament.
I may be mistaken, but in all events it is safest
for the United States to persevere in their plans
to do themselves justice. The Massachusetts
never struck a deeper stroke than by their late
navigation act. I hope it will be followed by all
the other states, but if it should not be followed
by any one I hope they will persist in it. They
would become by means of it both manufacturers
and carriers for others.

I may be out in all my conjectures, but I am
not without suspicions that the ministry will make
me some propositions, or give, as of their own mo-
tion, some facilities in trade upon the old princi-
ple of divide et irnpera. They may flatter them-
selves, as their predecessors have so often done,
that by giving way a little they can divide us, and
prevent the other states from making acts of navi-
gation or agreeing in any other plan. I hope the
Massachusetts, with all those who will join her,
in her present system will stand firm.

What do you think of granting a bounty by the
Massachusetts upon oil equal to the British alien
duty, and laying on imposts on British manufac-
tures for the express purpose of paying it ?

My duty here will oblige me, most probably, to
counteract as far as I can the prejudices of the

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY. Itfl

nation and the views of the ministers so constant! j

that 1 shall neither have their trumpeters to sup-
port my reputation nor their candour to forgive
my errours. They will never get any just ground
of complaint against me. I will behave towards
them in character, but I will do my duty to young
Samson, and constantly advise him to preserve
his locks. There will still be insinuations in con-
gress, I doubt not. Let me beg of you and your
friend Mr. King to inform me, that I may not lie
ignorant of every thing that passes relative to my-
self as I have been heretofore for many years to-
gether.

Mr. Jefferson and I are half distracted on ac-
count of Mr. Lambe, of whom we hear nothing.
We have thought of sending Mr. Barclay to Bar-
bary, but must wait, a little longer for Lambe.
Congress should send a commission to Mr. Bar-
clay if he goes.

I am, my dear sir, ever your's,

John Adams.

Hon. Mr. Gerry.

P. S. I hear of Gallicans and Anti-GaHicans,
of British and Anti-British influence in America.
I hope there are no such interests there. I think
we should be impartial as far as our treaty with
France will allow us, and no farther. But it
would be very unwise to have any Anti-Gallican
or Anti-British parties or partisans. We certainly
482 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

should have most commerce with England if she,
by impolitic restrictions, does not prevent it, but
if she will be contracted I am for going any where
to find liberality.

THE SAME TO THE SAME.
Grosvenor Square, Westminster, Sept. II, 1785.

Dear Sir,

This letter will be delivered you by my friend
Mr. Storer, by whom I may write more confiden-
tially than I usually do even to you.

I wish I had as much public cause as I have
private to speak respectfully of the present minis-
try. They have treated me, and I suppose advis-
ed their master to treat me, with all the personal
respect and all the regard to my public character,
which I can desire. I have no complaint to make
then upon that head.

But is their public conduct towards the United
States answerable ? They had adopted a system
before I came here. Their excluding our ships
from their markets, that is their not permitting
American built ships to be sold in their dominions^
or in other words their adjudging our ships to be
foreign ships and not entitled to the privileges of
British built ships and of plantation built ships, as
they were before the revolution, their excluding

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. |s;J

our slii])s from Nov;i Scotia, Canada and New*
foundland and from their West India Islands, arc
all parts of a system adopted at first by the coa-
lition administration and persisted in 1>\ the pre-
sent ministry. The system I mean is that of
treating the United States as a foreign nation, and
enforcing the navigation act against ns. It is cer-
tain that the present ministry has hitherto adopted
this principle, and I think it equally clear that it
is a fault. They have endeavoured to push tlii^
plan against us by tackling Ireland into the har-
ness of their navigation act. Ireland has refused.
I consider this refusal of Ireland as a great event
for the United States ; it has given us all the
chance we have of a fair treaty if it has not de-
fended us from greater evils.

But the plan with Ireland in the twenty pro-
positions is another proof that the present minis-
try are superficial statesmen and unequal to the
state of the nation.

They appear too to have adopted a great many
little notions in other things. The withholding
the posts, in which I really believe they are fixed,
proves a design to go to war with us, or at least
to keep up that idea in the minds of the peo-
ple of the British empire and the United States,
both of which are extremely impolitic. There
are several other little things, which look as if
they really wished we would commence hostilities
or furnish them with a pretence to begin them,

484 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

and as if they thought they could make a much
better figure in conducting a war against us than
lord North did ; as if they thought they could keep
France, Spain and Holland neuter, and then by
means of their whole fleet cut off all our commerce
and make us beg.

They discover judgment in nothing. Their
sending out a consul and not a minister is a mise-
rable blunder. What little trick, what pretty
piece of craft can there be in this ? Can it be to
signify to their own people, to ours, or to Europe,
that they look upon their consul upon a footing
with your minister plenipotentiary ? Or is it a
miff, because you did not propose to them to send
a minister when you complied with their proposal
in sending one ? Why should they do a thing
which they know will raise a dispute, when by
sending a minister they might avoid it ? Their
choice of a man is equally injudicious. I have a
regard for Mr. Temple, and wish him well. I
wish they had given him a still better office in
England, which I believe would have been as
agreeable to him and more so to his family : but
when you consider the mysterious part he has
acted and the suspicions he has brought upon him-
self in America, you cannot think him so suitable
a character as many other plain Englishmen of
fair and unsuspected characters. His deafness
besides renders it extremely difficult to converse
with him and makes him very apt to misunder-

UFi: OF ELBftlDGE GERM KM

stand you or comprehend you by the halves. It
is the curse of England that offiGes arc always
sought lor men, not men lor offices* The mar-
quis of Buckingham did such a service in defeat-
ing the India bill of the eoalitien and introducing
the present ministry, that he must be obliged.
His name is Temple, and lie asked this office tor
his namesake, and he must not be refused. Is
the accidental circumstance of a name to award
an office, which is at this moment one of the most
important in the kind's gift? Such I really think
at this time the British mission to the United
States.

Notwithstanding all these remarks I don't wish
the ministry changed ; the coalition would not be
better, and I doubt much whether Shelburne or
Buckingham would.

In one word, there is a unanimity in this country
in the desire to exclude our ships and oil, which I
never expected to see in any thing, and the party
for admitting us in any manner and under any re-
strictions to their colonies is very small.

I have been now three months in this country,
and in all that time I have not found one man w ho
could say he believed the ministry would admit
our ships or oil, and very few who thought we
should be admitted to the West Indies.

Mr. Temple will give you more pleasing ac-
counts than mine, I doubt not, of the friendly dis-
position of the ministry, and very great ideas of

486 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the abilities of the marquis of Buckingham and of
his liberal wishes for America. He would proba-
bly let us into some communication with the West
Indies, but would not be for a treaty.

I have no answer, and I doubt whether I shall
have till next spring ; I hope however for one be-
fore the meeting of parliament. I hope America
will suspend their judgments and measures as long
as possible, excepting their navigation acts and
imposts upon foreign luxuries. These I wish
them to accelerate as much as possible.

Your's,

John Adams.
Mr. Gerry.

i
MR. JEFFERSON TO MR. GERRY.

Paris, May 11, 1785.

Dear Sir,
Your favour of February 25th came to hand on
the 26th of April. I am not a little at a loss to
devise how it has happened that mine of Novem-
ber 11th, which I sent by colonel Le Mair, and
who I know arrived at New-York the 15th of
January, should have been so long kept from your
hands as till the 25th February. I am much afraid
that many letters sent by the same hand have ex-
perienced the same delay, and among these a
public letter from the commissioners to congress,

life of i:lhriim;i: <;i:rry. is 7

which we do not yet know that they have ever
received, any more than the subsequent ones BeDl
regularly by every packet since. We are told that
this government will in the course of tin; ensuing
months remove their packets to Havre, which will
facilitate the conveyance through the posts to the
packets, but most of all will enable us to forward
packages too heavy for the post. That port is
more convenient too for our trade while at peace
with England. The marquis de Lafayette, whose
zeal for America is great, expressed to me a desire
of endeavouring to obtain it as a free port, and ask-
ed my opinion. 1 knew that it would be disagree-
able to the government that free ports, round which
is drawn a wall of separation from the country in
which they are, from which commodities are not
permitted to be sold to the interior country, and
which in fact are restrained to the sole office of an
entrepot, were of little value to us, because our
merchants will never find it answer their account
to unship their produce merely to ship it again for
another market. They must always know before-
hand where they can sell, and carry directly thi-
ther. I therefore recommended to the marquis
not to attempt it, that by asking small favours
we should weaken our pretensions to great ones,
and that I wished him to reserve his efforts and
influence for the great objects of our mission. I
think he will do it, as nothing seems to be nearer
his heart than the serving America. As yet no-

488 LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY.

tiling has been opened here ; the times did not
admit it. The arret on the West India commerce
last winter raised a furious tempest against the
minister. It has been with difficulty that he could
keep the ground which that had gained. The
storm is not yet over, but its force is so far spent
that I think there is little danger of the merchants
forcing him to retract : but whether more can be
got is a desperate question ; it shall be tried when
circumstances are ripe for it. The marquis has
showed his attention to us in another instance, as
you will see by a contract for the supply of whale
oil, which Mr. Adams carries over. There were
circumstances in this which were not as precise
as could have been wished, but as it will rest with
our merchants to accept or to refuse the contract,
I thought it worth concluding ; on which question
the marquis was so good as to consult Mr. Adams,
sen. and myself. I have great reason to be grate-
ful to my friends in congress for the partialities so
often shown me in their European appointments.
I will endeavour honestly to deserve them, and
shall be supremely rewarded if I can give them
content. Mr. Adams sets out in a few days for
London : on him we shall rest the desperate task
of negotiation with that court. Perhaps the just
resentment lately excited in America by their con-
duct and the probability of our acting as a nation
by retaliating measures may induce them to lend
a listening ear to equal propositions. I have much

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY. 169

feared that their measures and their temper would
lead towards hostilities. As yet we ought not Id
think of war with a powerful nation : there arc,
to be sure, measures which would force it on 09*
Under the possibility of this event, we were anx-
ious to obtain a right of selling prizes in war in
the Prussian ports, and the cession of this point
by the king may in that case have the most im-
portant consequences. Great Britain has but two
resources for naval stores, America and Russia.
The first of these ceases to be open to her in case
of a war with us, and we can in a great measure
intercept her supplies from Russia, possessing pro-
tection and a free sale in the Prussian ports. It
will employ a respectable part of her naval force
to protect her supplies from that quarter. Much
could have been done against her in this way in
the last war, had we possessed this privilege. We
are glad also to close this treaty on account of the
respect paid to whatever the king of Prussia does.
Of all the powers not holding American territory,
a connexion with him will give us the most credit.

I think it probable that the peace will be kept
in Europe, at least between the emperour and
Dutch. This country has just lost a great states-
man in the duke de Choiseul. Though out of the
administration, he was universally esteemed, and
always supposed to be in the way of entering into
it again. He died two days ago.

I pray you to write to me as often as you can
490 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

find time. I will be punctual in returning it.
Besides the public transactions of America, the
objects of the different parts of congress, their
workings and counterworkings, what you refuse
to do as well as what you do will be most inter-
esting to me. A dry reading of the journals does
not give that intimate knowledge of their disposi-
tions, which may enable one to act to their wishes
in cases unprovided for. This will be delivered
you by young Mr. Adams. His being the son of
your particular friend renders unnecessary from
me those commendations of him which I could
with truth enter into. I congratulate your coun-
try on their prospect in this young man. I pray
you to believe me with much sincerity,

Your affectionate friend and servant,

Thomas Jefferson.
E. Gerry, Esq.

MR. RUFUS KING TO MR. GERRY.

New-York, March 24, 1785.

Dear Gerry,
I this moment received your's written the morn-
ing after your arrival at Boston. * * * * I thank
you for the politics you give me. The Rhode-
Island act for an impost had reached us before
your letter. New-York have been, you know,
upon the subject of impost, and yesterday the'

LIFE OF ELRRIDGE GERRV I'll

question upon a bill copied from the Massachusettt
act was lost in the senate, there being only eight
in favour and ten against the measure. The busi-
ness of congress proceed^ with great facility by so
full a representation. Congress have agreed on a
treaty to be held at Port Vincent in June with
the Indians north-west of the Ohio, and also to a
treaty south of the Ohio. This treaty was oppos-
ed by the circumscribed states because it might
cover the states of Georgia, South and North Ca-
rolina in purchases of Indian rights of soil within
the boundaries of those states. It was well an-
swered that the United States are bound to pro-
cure peace to all the citizens of the union, and
that the citizens of the southern states had a right
to require the United States to establish peace
with the enemy within their country. The object
of the treaty is confined to peace only, and the
commissioners restricted upon the subject of a
boundary of property between the Indians and the
several states. The commissioners for this treaty
are Mr. Perry of Delaware, Mr. Carrol of Mary-
land, Mr. Hawkins of North Carolina, Mr. Martin
of Virginia and Mr. Perkins of South Carolina.

Our family are all happy, and remember you
with a cordial affection. We all hope you will
soon despatch your private business and return
to us. Believe me to be with sincere esteem,

Your's,

R. King.
Mr. Gerry.

492 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

THE SAME TO THE SAME.

New-York, May 27, 1785.

Dear Gerry,

This accompanies the land ordinance, which
hath at length obtained its passage through con-
gress : I hope it will meet your approbation. We
are now occupied by the business of a requisition
for money.

The recommendation of the 27th of April 1784,
is the source of great embarrassment. Congress
thereby declare that they will not call for further
moneys until the states have all paid up former
deficiencies, and they engage to credit advances
over the moiety of the eight millions of dollars in
the next requisition. South Carolina, by manage-
ment with Mr. Morris, have obtained a credit for
specific supplies equal to their quota of the eight
millions of dollars, and now contend that as they
have obtained a credit on their quota of eight mil-
lions equal to the whole amount thereof, the pre-
sent demand on the states being for the remaining
moiety of the eight millions, they ought not to be
called on for any part of the sum necessary for the
current year.

The recommendation of last year, which is a
very complex affair, also states that before the re-
sidue of the eight and two millions of dollars not
thereby called for should be required, congress
would revise the rule of apportionment, and make

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 4 93

it conformable to justice upon the best evidence in
their power at the time. South Carolina in the
apportionment of the eight millions stands at the
same sum as New-Hampshire. Revise the rule
and conform it to justice and South Carolina will
stand at a larger sum and other states at a less.
This is what I contend for, and if it succeeds we
shall bring in South Carolina.

Indeed it may be questionable whether we ought
not to reconsider the recommendation of last year
on this subject, to enjoin it upon the states to
comply with the expectations of congress in pay-
ing a moiety of the quotas of the eight millions
last year required, and make a new requisition for
the moneys necessary for the present year, without
reference to former acquisitions.

It will be the occasion of confusion and intrica-
cy if every new requisition upon the states for
money is to operate as a balance bill to all pre-
ceding demands. What think you of this idea ?
Adieu, my dear friend. Believe me affection-
ately your's,

R. King,

Mr. Gerry.

THE SAME TO THE SAME,

New-York, Jink 5, 1785.

I have your's of the 27th of May, with the his-
tory of electioneering : I am satisfied with all

494 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

that has been done and with all that has not been
done. There is but one piece of information that
you give me that I am not content with, and that
is your intention to remain until the 1 5th instant
in Massachusetts. I have for six weeks past daily
been saying that you would be here in twelve or
fifteen days, and these assertions have not only
been made to the best and most respectable men
in congress, but to a number of the most beautiful
women in this city, all of whom laugh at my cre-
dulity in believing that you seriously intend leav-
ing Massachusetts this summer.

Now, sir, this has become a very serious busi-
ness. I am not only disappointed in the society
of my friend, but am pointed at as a very weak
man in my understanding, and a very great man
in my faith.

But this aside, seriously your friends wish you
here, and I have been disappointed in your not
returning. However, as you have tarried so long,
for the greater good I will consent to your re-
maining a few days longer for the appointment of
delegates.

I wish to know who is talked of, and who will
probably be chosen. You well know the import-
ance to Massachusetts and to the eastern states
that Massachusetts should always have not only a
full but an able delegation. The state requires
abilities in the present condition of her affairs, but
I fear she will not obtain them, although she hath

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 196

many able men who would Berve her, provided
when the) are taking care thai the commonwealth
takes no harm, the commonwealth would take can-
that their private affairs receive do detriment.

Georgia is represented, North Carolina and
Delaware unrepresented. We have eleven states
on the floor. Adieu, my dear (Jen \ .

Your's affectionately,

R. Knro.

Mr. Gerry.

At the annual election in April 1785, the whole
number of senators for the county of Essex were
not chosen by the people. Many of his fellow
citizens had voted for Mr. Gerry, and the duty of
selecting one of the two who had received the
highest number of votes devolved on the legisla-
ture and was performed by their designating him
for that honourable office, but again he declined
the appointment, giving as a reason that he pre-
ferred a seat in the popular branch which at the
expiration of his term in congress he proposed to
resume, having been thereto elected by his neigh-
bours and friends of Marblehead. This was the
second instance of his being at the same time a
delegate in congress and member elect of each
branch of the state legislature.

The legislature of Massachusetts in the exercisi
of that vigilant supervision which it seemed to

496 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

them proper to maintain over the proceedings of
congress, had instructed their delegates on several
matters which mark the jealousy of state preroga-
tive.

It is obvious that the continental government
was considered in the light of a foreign one. In-
deed the epithet was applied to it by one of the
leaders in the Massachusetts councils. It was
submitted to as a matter of necessity and because
such submission was the only practicable way of
concentrating the energies of the other states.
The sovereignty of the state was a favourite prin-
ciple in the legislature of Massachusetts, and from
that source New-England chiefly derived its poli-
tical opinions. A desire of self government, from
a settled conviction that in principle it was right
and in practice would be successful, originated
the resistance to the arbitrary acts of English
power ; and although the distinction between a
government voluntarily appointed at home and
one imposed without consent from abroad was
sufficiently obvious, yet any parting with the
power of the state, any transfer of authority be-
yond its borders, was submitted to with reluc-
tance. It was always in the imagination of the
statesmen of Massachusetts that power had a na-
tural tendency to oppression, that like the pro-
ductions of nature it would grow and expand by
time, unless it was diminished by artificial re-
straints.

LIFE OF BLBRIDGE GERRY. 497

To these notions, which perhaps may be well
enough maintained, was added a suspicion of the
individuals to which the management of affairs
was intrusted, an apprehension that they enter-
tained individually a desire ampliare jurisdklionnn.
a belief of their disposition to encroach upon ter-
ritories not submitted to their sway. In justice
however to the statesmen of that day, it must be
admitted that their own experience of the past in
some degree justified these too careful suspicions.
It had been the fate of those who then guided
public affairs to have witnessed constant efforts
by ministers abroad and by governours at home to
usurp power without right, to assume what they
ought not to possess, and to carry to extremes that
which was properly in their hands.

The different points of view, from which the
body politic was seen, originated contradictory
opinions on the subject of legitimate authority.
On the part of the ministry the practical language
of their conduct was that the people possessed no
right, which had not been granted, and the crown
no restraint, which had not been specifically im-
posed. The republican doctrine of Massachusetts
was the more correct principle of modern times,
that government had no power but what the peo-
ple had granted, and liberty no restraint, which
was not imposed by their consent.

But inasmuch as no written constitution can
provide beforehand for all the innumerable cir-
498 LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY.

cumstances, which the actual exercise of govern-
ment originates ; as the most it can do is to lay
down the general outlines of the coast, by which
the navigator must direct his course, without pre-
tending to trace out all the shoals and currents in
his way or the winds which vary his direction ; or
at least as no more than this was attempted to be
done by the confederation under which the con-
gress of the United States assembled, there de-
volved, as was thought, on the states, as the con-
stituents of this body, a constant duty of examina-
tion, recommendation and control, an obligation
so to maintain the current of public opinion that
its force would necessarily carry them in its safest
channel.

The legislature of Massachusetts was a faithful
pilot in this troubled sea. They had looked with
great apprehension on the management of the
treasury, which under the control of an individual
they believed dangerous to public morals ; they
saw members of congress promoted to stations of
emolument or honour by the vote of their col-
leagues, and this they denounced as impairing the
purity of legislation, and finding that the secretary
of congress maintained an influence from long ser-
vices, which they considered anti-republican, they
instructed their delegates to use their endeavours
to obtain an ordinance that for the future he be
elected annually. On the propriety of such inter-
ference no difference of opinion at that day exist-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. !!•!•

ed. If experience has since justified more libe-
rality, former habits should not now be cast back
as a reflection upon those times. Perhaps onh

the objects of state jealousy have changed, and
that the amount of it has not diminished.

Alter a short interval Mr. Gerry resumed for
the last time his seat in the national councils and
devoted to the business of the session his usual
industry and application, But however useful
may have been the details of the limited legisla-
tion of congress, they presented at that period no
particular object of present interest. To disen-
tangle the intricacies of the treasury, to produce
by a sort of Aladdin's lamp money without means,
to protect the commerce of the country from the
rapacity of the Barbary corsairs, and the naviga-
tion acts of more civilized but not less inimical
competitors, were among the objects which requir-
ed the attention of men who could not but per-
ceive how inefficient were their powers and how
ruinous the want of them to their country.

Still congress was the central, and in many re-
spects the supreme authority of the country, and
with all the watchfulness, with which the patriot-
ism of the states deemed it useful to guard and to
limit its exertions, its councils commanded the
respect which is paid to wisdom and authority.
It had the means both of influence and of honour;
its patronage gave individuals wealth, its appoint-
ments conferred distinction, while as the successor

500 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

of the displaced monarchy it transferred to itself
that feeling of attachment and loyalty, which habit
and education had made natural to the American
people.

Mr. Gerry at this session completed the time
of service, which the confederation permitted in
this illustrious assembly. For three years he had
been at the head of the Massachusetts' delegation,
and he had maintained that elevated rank not
more by the commission, which assigned it to him,
than by the experience and services, which procur-
ed it. Nor was this merely a nominal honour. In
the councils of the confederacy the rank of Mas-
sachusetts and Virginia had undisputed pre-emi-
nence. They were the great states of the union.
Others, which have since surpassed them in size
and population, had failed to take the early and
decided stand, which had established the liberty
and glory of the nation. Jealousy existed, it is
true, and rivalry was sometimes successful ; such
always is the consequence of distinction : but the
weight of these two sections of the new republic
was felt in all the deliberations of the congress of
the United States.

A deference was entertained too for their indi-
vidual character. Virginia had moved for a de-
claration of independence ; the resolution was se-
conded by Massachusetts. Their delegates were
first named on the committee by whom the decla-
ration was reported. They had together led the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. . 501

forces of their states. They had spent their trea-
sure, spilt their blood, and united their councils
together: in everything but location thev were
one. They had always been ably represented,

and if in some minor points a difference of opinion
had existed between them, the great measures of
national policy had been pursued by the influence
of their united talents, learning, eloquence and
patriotism.

These adventitious circumstances concurred in
giving importance to individual reputation, which
was well sustained by the personal character of
Mr. Gerry. The value of his services and the
influence attached to his name is discovered bv
the extent and variety of the duties assigned him
on committees, and the closeness of his attention
by this among other facts, that he transcribed
with his own hand the public and private journals
of proceedings during every day of his attendance.
At an age short of forty-two years, he was the
eldest member on the floor of that honourable
assembly, and by this circumstance held a rank in
the eye of the nation more imposing than the
subsequent organization of the government would
make it easy to attain. High in the esteem and
affection of his immediate constituents, firmly pos-
sessed of the confidence of his associates, and from
long and constant service enjoying the applause
and affection of the people, Mr. Gerry retired from
the councils of the confederacy with all the hon-

502 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ours, which patriotism, integrity and talents could
acquire in the service of the state.

In the full possession of these splendid acquisi-
tions, it was his good fortune to add another of
inestimable value to his domestic felicity. Before
leaving New-York he married the daughter of
Mr. James Thompson, one of the most respect-
able, and on the mother's side most ancient fami-
lies of that city. The lady had been educated in
Europe, whence she had recently returned, and
in all the pride of youth, was considered the most
beautiful woman in the United States. From the
centre of the gay and elegant society of New-
York, where she was the subject of uncommon
admiration, she accompanied her husband to Mas-
sachusetts. Few years had elapsed before an in-
creasing family and feeble health, and the cold
and repulsive atmosphere of party politics sepa-
rated her from the circles in which she had been
accustomed to move, and confined the pleasures of
her society to her domestic connexions.

No man's happiness was ever more identified
with another's than was Mr. Gerry's with this
accomplished lad}7. Whatever were the storms
in the political elements, it was in her society
that he found perfect serenity, and no penalties
to which the violence of party spirit afterwards
subjected him were borne with so little fortitude
as those, which it suited the ungallant severity of
the day to extend also to her.

LIFE OF ELR1UDGE GERRY. 509

Mr. Gerry returned to Massachusetts to enjoy

the pleasures of domestic life, reposing for a while
from the cares of politics to be called again to
new and higher duties, to sustain more impor-
tant and honourable offices, to suffer the obloquy
and reproach, which always burst on those who
put their own strength before the passions of Un-
people, but to live until the most brilliant reward
should attest the value of his character, and to
die at the head of the senate, the second ma-
gistrate of a republic, which his earliest efforts
had assisted to become free, sovereign and inde-
pendent.

APPENDIX A.

Referred to in page 95.

Water-town, Nov. 13th, 1775.

In the sixteenth year of the reign of George the third,

King, 8,'C.

An act j or encouraging the fitting out of armed vessels
to defend the sea coast of America, and for erecting
a court to try and condemn all vessels that shall be
found infesting the same.

Whereas the present administration of Great Britain, being
divested of justice and humanity, and strangers to that mag-
nanimity and sacred regard for liberty, which inspired their
predecessors, have been endeavouring, through a series of
years, to establish a system of despotism over the American
colonies, and by their venal and corrupt measures, have so
extended their influence over the British parliament, that by
a prostituted majority, it is now become a political engine of
slavery. And whereas the military tools of these our unna-
tural enemies, while restrained by the united forces of the
American colonies from proceeding in their sanguinary ca-
reer of devastation and slaughter, are infesting the sea coast
with armed vessels, and daily endeavouring to distress the in-
habitants, by burning their towns and destroying their dwell-
ings with their substance, plundering live stock, and making
captures of provision and other vessels, being the property
of the said inhabitants. And whereas their majesties, King
William and Queen Mary, by the royal charter of this colony,
"for themselves, their heirs and successors, did grant, es-
tablish and ordain, that in the absence of the governour and
(54

506 APPENDIX.

lieutenant governour of the colony, a majority of the council
shall have full power by themselves, or by any chief com-
mander, or other officer or officers, to be appointed by them
from time to time, for the special defence of their said pro-
vince or territory, to assemble in martial array, and put in
warlike posture the inhabitants of their said province or ter-
ritory, and to lead and conduct them, and with them to en-
counter, expulse, resist and pursue by force of arms, as well
by sea as by land, within or without the limits of the said pro-
vince or territory ; and also to kill, slay, destroy and conquer,
by all fitting ways, enterprizes and means whatever, all and
every such person and persons, as should at any time there-
after, attempt or enterprize the destruction, invasion, detri-
ment or annoyance of their said province or territory, and to
take and surprise, by all ways and means whatever, all and
every person and persons, with their ships, arms, ammunition
and other goods, as should in a hostile manner invade or at-
tempt the invading, conquering or annoying of their said pro-
vince or territory :" And whereas it is expressly resolved
by the grand congress of America, u that each colony, at their
own expense, make such provision by armed vessels or other-
wise, as their respective assemblies, conventions, or commit-
tees of safety, shall judge expedient and suitable to their cir-
cumstances and situations, for the protection of their harbours
and navigation on the sea coasts, against all unlawful invasion,
attacks and depredations from cutters and ships of war." And
it is the duty and interest of this colony to exert itself, as well
for the purpose of keeping supplies from the enemy, as for
those mentioned in the paragraphs of the charter and resolve
now recited :

Therefore, for the more effectual carrying into execution
the purposes aforesaid :

Be it enacted by the council and house of representatives in
general court assembled, and by the authority of the same,
that all armed and other vessels which shall be brought into
this colony, and have been found making unlawful invasions,
attack or depredations on the sea coasts, or navigation of any

APPENDIX. 507

part of America, or improved in supplying the (Tort and army.
which have been, or shall at any time he employed against
the united colonies, or employed hy the said enemy in any
respect whatever: and also all vessels, whose masters and
supercargoes shall have had designs of carrying supplies of
any kind to the enemy, or that shall he returning from (be
enemy, after having carried such supplies, and shall be con-
victed thereof, as is herein provided, such vessel or vessels,
with their appurtenances and cargoes, shall be deemed for-
feited, and shall be disposed of, as is by this act hereafter or-
dered and directed.

And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the
council of this colony, or the major part of them, shall be
fully empowered to commission with letters of marque and
reprisal, any person or persons, within this colony, who shall
at his or their own expense, fit out and equip for the defence
of America any vessel, as also any person who shall by the
owner of such vessel be recommended therefor: and that all
such persons so commissioned as aforesaid, shall have full
power with such other persons, as they shall engage to their
assistance, to sail on the seas, attack, take and bring into any
port in this colony, all vessels offending or employed by the
enemy as aforesaid ; and also to retake and bring in as afore-
said, any vessel or vessels, that may be taken from any per-
son or persons by the said enemy.

Provided always, and be it further enacted, that the master
or owner of such vessels shall, at the time he receives such
commission enter into bond with one sufficient surety at
least for the faithful discharge of his office, and observing the
law of this relating to armed colony vessels; which bond
shall be in the words following, viz :

" Know all men by these presents, that we A. B. and C. D.
of, &c. are holden and stand firmly bound and obliged unto the
treasurer and receiver-general of the colony aforesaid, in the
full and just sum of to be paid unto the said treasurer

and receiver-general, or to his successor in the said office ;
to the true payment whereof, we bind ourselves, our heirs,

508 APPENDIX.

executors and administrators, jointly, severally and firmly by
these presents : Sealed with our seal the day of anno

domini, 17

" The condition of the aforesaid written obligation is such,
that whereas the said A. B. hath, on the day of the date here-
of received a commission to command an armed vessel called
the burthened about tons, to make reprisals of

all armed and other vessels, that shall be found supplying the
enemy, or acting counter to a law of this colony, entitled an
act for encouraging the fitting out of armed vessels to defend
the sea coasts of America, and for erecting a court to try and
condemn all vessels that shall be found infesting the same —
If therefore the said A. B. shall, and do in and by all things
well and truly ohserve and fulfil such instructions as he shall
receive from the council of this colony, and shall in all re-
spects conform himself to the direction given in and by the
act aforesaid, then the aforesaid written obligation to be void,
otherwise to remain in full force."

And be it further enacted, That there shall be erected and
constantly held in the town of Plymouth, in the county of
Plymouth, a court of justice by such able and discreet person
as shall be appointed and commissioned by the major part of
the council, for that purpose, whose business it shall be to
take cognizance of, and try the justice of any capture or cap-
tures of any vessel or vessels, that may or shall be taken by
any person or persons whomsoever, and brought into either
of the counties of Plymouth, Barnstable, Bristol, Nantucket,
or Dukes county ; and the judge, so commissioned, to hold
the said court as aforesaid, shall have power at all times to
issue his warrant or warrants to the constable or constables,
of any town or towns within the said counties of Plymouth,
Barnstable, Bristol, Dukes county, or Nantucket, or either
of them, directing the said constable or constables to warn a
meeting of the inhabitants of their towns respectively, and to
draw out of the box in such manner as is provided by the
laws of this colony, for returning jurors to serve in the infe-
riour court of Common Pleas, so many good and lawful men

APPENDIX. 509

for jurors, as the said judge shall, in bifl said warrant, order
and direct, not exceeding the number of twelve; and the said
constable shall immediately, as soon as may be, give notice in
writing to such persons, so drawn, of the time and place
which in the said warrant shall be set for their appearance,
and shall return the said warrant, with his doings thereon, to
the said judge, at or before the time set therein for the ap-
pearance of the said jurors.

And be it further enacted, That if any constable within the
said counties shall neglect or refuse to obey the warrant of
the judge, for returning the said jurors as aforesaid, be shall
pay such line as the said judge shall order, not exceeding the
sum of forty shillings: and if any juror, so drawn, and having
notice as aforesaid, shall not appear, at the time and place,
directed in such warrant, or shall refuse, without reasonable
excuse, to serve on such jury, he shall pay such fine as the
judge shall order, not exceeding the sum of forty shillings ;
but before such fine shall be awarded, the said judge shall
summon such juryman to appear before him, to show forth
the reasons of his neglect; and if such reasons shall not be
satisfactory to the said judge, then he, the said judge, shall
issue his warrant of distress for such line, in the manner as is
directed for the recovery of fines of jurors, who shall neglect
or refuse to serve in the inferiour court of Common Pleas :
which fines so recovered, shall be paid into the treasury of
this colony.

And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That
there shall be held in like manner, in the town of Ipswich, in
the county of Essex, one other court of justice, by such able
and discreet person, as the major part of the council shall
appoint and commission thereto, which judge shall have full
cognizance of, and power to try the justice of the capture of
any vessel or vessels, that shall be taken as aforesaid, and
brought into any port in the counties»of Suffolk, Middles
or Essex, and shall have the like power to issue his warrant
or warrants, for jurors in the said counties, as is before pro-
vided for the judge of the counties first mentioned ; and every

510 APPENDIX.

constable and juror, within the said counties of Suffolk, Mid-
dlesex and Essex, who shall neglect to pay due obedience to
the said warrants, shall be liable to the same penalties, as are
provided by this act, against those, in like manner offending,
in the counties of Plymouth, Barnstable, Bristol, Nantucket
and Dukes.

And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That
there shall be held in like manner in North Yarmouth, in the
county of Cumberland, one other court of justice, by such
person, as the major part of the council shall commission, to
be judge thereof, which judge shall have full cognizance of,
and power to try, the justice of all captures of vessels that
shall be taken as aforesaid, and brought into any port, in
either of the counties of York, Cumberland or Lincoln ; and
shall have such power to issue a warrant or warrants, in the
said counties, as is provided in this act for the other judges
aforementioned, in the counties of their respective jurisdic-
tion; and the constables and jurors in the said counties of
York, Cumberland and Lincoln, are to pay strict obedience
to the said warrants, under the penalties before in this act
provided for like offences in the other counties aforemen-
tioned.

And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That
when any person or persons shall take and bring into any
port in this colony, any vessel or vessels, that have been of-
fending, or employed by the enemy as aforesaid, such person
or persons, so taking and bringing such vessel, shall immedi-
ately make out a bill in writing, therein giving a full and
ample account of the time and manner of the caption of such
vessel, and the employment she was in, when so taken, and
of the persons who were aiding and assisting in taking her;
and a schedule of the cargo on board her, to the best of his
knowledge, at the time of her caption ; and shall deliver the
same to the judge, who shall have jurisdiction of the port
where such vessel is brought, with all the papers that may be
found on board such vessel, to the intent that the jury may
have the benefit of evidence arising therefrom : and the judge,

APPENDIX 5 II

to whom the said bill shall be delivered, shall immediately
issue his warrant or warrants, as aforesaid, to any constable
or constables, within the counties of his jurisdiction, command-
ing them, or either of them, in manner aforesaid, to return
twelve good and lawful men to try the truth of any facts al-
leged in such bill; and if seven of the said jurors, so returned
by the said constable or constables, shall appear, and there
shall not be enough to complete a panel of twelve, or if there
shall be a legal challenge to any of them, so that there shall
be seven, and not a panel, to try such cause, then in such
case, it shall be lawful for the judge to order the sheriff, or
other proper officer, attending on the said court, to till up the
jury with other good and lawful men present, which jury
shall be sworn to return a true verdict upon the said bill, ac-
cording to law and evidence : and if it shall appear to the
said judge by the said verdict, that such vessel had been em-
ployed or offending as aforesaid, he shall condemn the said
vessel and cargo, and appurtenances, and order them to be
sold at public vendue, and shall order the charges of the said
trial and condemnation to be paid out of the money, such ves-
sel and cargo shall sell for, unto the treasury of this colony,
and shall order the residue thereof to be delivered to the cap-
tors, their agents or attorneys, for the use and benefit of such
captors, and others concerned therein. And if two or more
vessels, the commanders whereof, shall be properly commis-
sioned, shall jointly take such vessel, the money, she and her
cargo and appurtenances shall sell for, after payment of charg-
es as aforesaid, shall be divided between the captors, in pro-
portion to their men. And the said judge, before whom any
such trial and condemnation as is before mentioned may be,
shall be authorized to make out his precept under his hand
and seal, to either of the sheriffs within his jurisdiction, to sell
such vessel and appurtenances, and cargo, and to pay there-
out the charges of trial and condemnation, into the treasury
of this colony, and to pay his own fees, and to deliver the
residue to the captors aud persons concerned as aforesaid.
And be it further enacted, That there shall be paid to the

512 APPENDIX.

justice, jurors and sheriffs, out of the public treasury, such
fees as are, or shall hereafter be established by law, to each
and every officer of the said court.

And be it furtfter enacted by the authority aforesaid, That
when any such bill shall be delivered to such judge he shall
cause notification thereof, and the name (if known) and de-
scription of the vessel so brought in, with the day set for the
trial thereon, to be advertised in the several papers printed
at Watertown and Cambridge fifteen days before the time set
for the trial, that the owner of such vessel, or any person
concerned, may appear and show cause, if any they have,
why such vessel, with her cargo and appurtenances, should
not be condemned and sold as aforesaid.

And be it further enacted, That the process and proceeding
upon any vessel, that shall be retaken from the enemy by any
person or persons, shall be in the same manner, as is herein
provided for other vessels ; and if by verdict of the jury, it
shall appear to the judge, that such vessel was taken by the
enemy, and was retaken by such person or persons, before
condemnation by the said enemy thereon had, the said judge
shall order such vessel, with her cargo and appurtenances, to
be sold in manner aforesaid, and shall order not more than
one third, nor less than one quarter of what she shall sell for
(after paying the charges of trial and sale) to be delivered to
the captors, as before provided for other vessels, and the re-
sidue to be delivered to the owner or owners of such vessel.
— And, if such vessel so retaken, shall have been condemned
by the enemy, then the money, she and her cargo and appur-
tenances may sell for, shall be delivered to the captors, as is
above provided for vessels belonging to the said enemy.

And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That each
judge of such courts shall appoint an able clerk, who shall
keep a true and fair record of all the proceedings of the said
court, and shall be duly sworn to act in the said office, with
truth and fidelity, and his attestations shall be received as evi-
dence in all courts of law.

APPENDIX 51 J

APPENDIX TO PACJK IK).

The following letters of the late President Adams, on the sub-
ject of the American navy were by accident mislaid when the
pages where they should have appeared were passing through
the press. They are added in this place to present the corre-
spondence complete, and make the views of the writer intel-
ligible.

"o"

Mr. Adams to Vice-President Gerry.

Qcincv, April 19, 1813.

A very fortunate day to write to you, my dear sir, and es-
pecially on a subject without which the actions of April 19,
1775, would have been no blessing.

In my last letter 1 intimated a design of looking into other
American historians after that of Mrs. Warren, on the subject
of a navy.

Chief Justice Marshall, in the second volume of his Life of
Washington, p. 257, in the month of September, says, "The
importance of a maritime force to the military operations of
a country possessing an immense extent of sea coast must al-
ways be sensibly felt, and in an early stage of the contest the
particular attention of the United Colonies was directed more
immediately to this interesting object by an event not very
unusual in a period of hostilities, but which at the time ex-
cited no small degree of resentment." This event was the
conflagration of Falmouth. See in the book the sang froid
account of this pretty business. " This measure was loudly
reprobated throughout America, and was a mean of stimulat-
ing the attention of the United Colonies to their marine, and
hastening their preparations to bring into operation the means
they possessed for retaliating injuries sustained at sea. It
was one immediate motive with the convention of Mussachu-
514 APPENDIX.

setts for granting letters of marque and reprisal, and was as-
signed by congress, in addition to the capture of American
merchantmen on the high seas, as an inducement for fitting
out some ships of war, to man which they directed two bat-
talions of marines to be recruited.

" Though general letters of reprisal were not immediately
granted by congress to their continental cruisers, a measure
of equal efficacy but less hostile in appearance was adopted.
Their ships of war were authorized to capture all vessels
employed in giving assistance to the enemy in any manner
whatever; and the forms used in their resolution were such,
that no capture could be made which might not be construed
to come within it. At the repeated and pressing instances of
the commander in chief, they also established courts to take
cognizance of prizes, and adopted for their government the
general principles of national law. A few small cruisers had
been already fitted out under the authority and by the direc-
tion of general Washington, and the coasts soon swarmed with
the privateers of New-England. These naval exertions
were attended with valuable consequences. Many captures
were made, and important supplies of ammunition were thus
obtained, without which it would have been scarcely possible
to have maintained the blockade of Boston. The cruisers of
Massachusetts were particularly successful ; and such was the
general spirit of enterprize, that the British government as
well as their merchants, who seem to have been under no
apprehension of an attack on what was deemed their peculiar
element, smarted severely under these first essays of the colo-
nists in maritime war.

" Captain Manly, of the Lee privateer, was remarkably
active and fortunate. He made many valuable captures of
vessels laden with military stores, the most important and ac-
ceptable of which was a large ordnance ship, having on board
a considerable cargo of arms and ammunition, with a complete
assortment of such working tools, utensils and machines as
were most needed in the American camp." Please to read
the next paragraph, page 260, the substance of which is, " that

APPENDIX. 515

the distress of the British troops was increased by the capture
of very many of their provision ships by the continental and
provincial cruisers."

This is all the attention that this biographical historian has
bestowed upon this great subject at that most critical and most
important period.

Had this learned writer ever read your law or the journal
of congress, or had the general in his letters or minutes taken
any notice of either ? Why was the authority of Massachusetts,
which enacted the law in all the forms of the constitution by
their charter, called a convention ? It was the general court,
the regular legal constitutional legislature of the province, the
crown governour having abdicated. Neither the proceed-
ings of the Massachusetts' legislature nor those of congress
are stated with any chronological order, or intelligible per-
spicuity, or tolerable precision.

When did " congress, at the pressing instances of Washing-
ton establish courts," &.c. ? Your law established courts, and
your executive power appointed judges, and Edes's paper is
full of advertisements of Nathan Cushing and Timothy Pick-
ering junior, of libels before them of ships and cargoes
taken. But when did congress erect courts or commission
judges? The earliest step that 1 recollect in congress was
allowing an appeal, and appointing a committee of their own
members to sit with full powers as a court of appeals. And
this I should have forgotten, if I had not been one of these
judges and heard the arguments of Lewis, Jonathan Dickin-
son, Sargent, and other lawyers in several causes.

When were u a few small cruisers titted out under the autho-
rity and by the direction of general Washington ?" What autho-
rity had the general ? None at all, but that which he derived
from the authority and orders of congress, recorded in their
journal of the fifth of October 1775, desiring (i. e. command-
ing) him to apply to the council of Massachusetts Bay for the
two armed vessels in their service, &.c. Lc. &.c. And congress
in the same resolution ordered letters to be written to the
governours Coke and Trumbull to send their vessels on the

516 APPENDIX.

same service. All to be emploj'ed at the continental ex-
pense. By all which it appears that three states at least,
Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Connecticut had each of
them two vessels at least, fitted, armed and equipped by the
state authorities and at the state's expense, without orders, ad-
vice, request or intimation from congress or their general, and
without any other prompter than their own wisdom and fore-
sight.

And here, by the way, the order of congress is on the 5th
of October 1775. Your law is printed in Edes's Gazette of
the 13th of November 1775. The law of congress there-
fore precedes your law by one month and eight days. Your
law must have been in agitation a long time before it was en-
acted, and still a longer time before it was printed in a news-
paper. The dates of its conception, its growth in embryo
and its birth are not ascertained nor ascertainable by me.
Are the journals, or any records of the proceedings of the
general court at Watertown during this session preserved?
And where are they deposited? Where can I find them? One
thing is certain, you had ships ready on and before the 5th of
October, when congress called upon you to lend them to
Washington, and before your law was printed ; but how long
before, and by what steps, and at what dates the business
advanced, does not appear.

Why does Marshall call Manly and his ship a privateer ?
Manly was fitted by the authority of Congress the national
sovereign, by Washington as their executive agent. If ever
there was a public ship, Manly's was one. In short, the
force of words, legal and political distinctions and public
records are all equally unknown and unsought by our histo-
rians. Not one word about Broughton or Silman. Where is
the dignity, the impartiality of history?

John Adams.

Vice-President Gerry.

APPENDIX 511

J/r. Jldams lo lice- President Gerry.

Quincy, April 20, 1813.
Dear Sir,

In former letters I have made a few hasty remark- upon
Mrs. Warren and Mr. Marshall ; permit me now to add one or
two upon Dr. Gordon.

In the second volume of his history, page 144, he Bays,
" The Massachusetts' assembly resolved, October the ninth,
[1775] to fit out armed vessels." But how is this? This re-
solution is four days later than the resolution of congress,
October 5, which asserts that Massachusetts had already
" two armed vessels in their service, Rhode Island two and
Connecticut two." How are we to reconcile ihesc scorning
inconsistencies? There can be no errour in the date of the
journal of congress. Is there a mistake in Dr. Gordon's date ?
This can be determined only by the journal of the general
court at Watertown. Where is that ? Who was clerk ? War-
ren, I presume, was speaker.

Some light may be thrown upon this difficulty, though it is
not wholly removed by the next words of Gordon ; " which
proving a sufficient encouragement for individuals to apply
themselves to that business, and some being in proper for-
wardness, an act was passed in November for granting letters
of marque and reprisal and the establishment of courts of ad-
miralty." This no doubt was your and Sullivan's act ; but
Gordon has not given us the date of the first motion for it in
either house, or any of its stages, the opposition to it, the de-
bates upon it, or its final enactment or first publication. How
congress could know on the fifth of October that you bad
" two vessels in your service," when the resolution for lining
them was not passed by you till the ninth and your systemati-
cal law was not passed till November, and not published at
least in the Gazette till the thirteenth of November, still re-
mains a mystery. The journal of your general court may
explain it.

518 APPENDIX.

Gordon proceeds, " The declared intention of the act,"
[i. e. your and Sullivan's act] " was for the defence of the
American coast and the condemnation of those vessels only
which should be proved to be the property of or in any wise
employed by the enemies of the United American Colonies,
or for supplying such enemies. The Lee privateer, captain
Manly, belonging to Marblehead, was soon at sea and took
the brig Nancy, an ordnance ship from Woolwich, containing
beside a large brass mortar upon a new construction, several
pieces of fine brass cannon, a large quantity of small arms and
ammunition, with all manner of tools, utensils and machines
necessary for camps and artillery, in the greatest abundance.
General Washington, but thirteen days before, wrote, ' I am
in very great want of powder, lead, mortars, indeed of most
sorts of military stores.' Had congress sent an order for ar-
ticles most wanted, they could not have made a more satis-
factory invoice. The mortar is now at Cambridge in the
park of artillery; is named The Congress, and is much ad-
mired for its size by every spectator, whether acquainted or
not with the uses for which it is designed. About two months
before this capture a ship from Bristol with flour for Boston,
having parted with her convoy was decoyed into Portsmouth
in New Hampshire and secured for the benefit of the Ameri-
cans. Three ships from London, Glasgow and Liverpool
with various stores for the army, and a brig from Antigua
with rum were taken in the bay by captain Manly by whale
boats, &c. A number of men in whale boats can overpower
unarmed vessels and carry them off into secure harbours.
These and the privateers captured several more store ships
before five days were ended. Among the privateers were
some continental ones, for general Washington fitted out a
few armed vessels, which has met with the approbation of
congress. These repeated and considerable captures have
increased the distress of the troops and people of Boston, and
furnished the continental army with many valuable articles.
But though the success of the Americans upon the watery
element has been matter of joy and triumph, their affairs
upon land do not answer the wishes of the genuine patriots."

APPENDIX >l't

This account of Gordon'! is more sensible ami latttfactorj
than Warren's or M;u>haH"s, yet how lean, how indistinct,
how incorrect ami how erroneous is even thi.» !

Why does he call these armament* pi is ;il< <. m ? They u.
state ships of war, or national ships of war; for continental
ships were national ships.

One would think that Washington had of his own head lilted
out ships, and their success had obtained the retrospective
approbation of congress. No such matter. Washington did
nothing in this affair but by the authority and in obedience to
the law and orders of congress, which law and orders as well
as the resolution and law of the state of Massachusetts ought
to have been stated by the historian, and the names and cruis-
es and exploits of commodore Broughton and captain Selman
and others ought to have been recorded as well as those of
Manly.

In page 155 of volume 2, he says, "Congress determined
upon building five ships of 32 guns, five of 28, and three of
25, in all thirteen ; one in New-Hampshire, two in Massachu-
setts, one in Connecticut, two in Rhode Island, two in New
York, four in Pennsylvania, and one in Maryland.*' But he
takes no notice of the antecedent proceedings of congress by
which the Columbus, the Cabotts, the Alfred, the Andrew
Doria were fitted out, officered, manned, victualled, clothed,
&c. and all the rules and regulations of the navy prepared
and adopted by congress before the resolution to build the
thirteen ships was proposed in congress by a new committee
of twelve under the same title with the first committee of
five. All he says is, " The committee appointed to fit out
armed vessels, having procured a few, laid before congreM 9
list of the officers by them appointed, and were directed to
give such instructions to the commander of the fleet, Ezckiel
Hopkins, Esq. touching the operations of the ships under his
command, as should appear to them most conducive to the
defence of the United- Colonies and to the distress of the ene-
my's forces and vessels."

520 APPENDIX.

Such is the account, meagre and jejune, given by three of
our principal historians of the first essay towards the founda-
tion of a national marine, one of the most efficacious measures
of the revolution, and the most important subject that can en-
gage the contemplation of American citizens at this hour and
in all times to come.

It is with grief that I record a fact, which I ought to record,
relative to Gordon's history. His object was profit. He was
told that his book would not sell if printed according to his
manuscript. It was accordingly thrown into a new form of
letters between a gentleman in England and one in America.
He was told besides, that the style was so bold that it would
damn the work, and that many things were so favourable to
America and others so disgraceful to Britons that neither
would be borne. Accordingly the style and spirit was altered
and accommodated more to the British taste and feelings. In
this labour of love he had the assistance of some of the dis-
senting clergymen ; and among them I can name the Drs.
Towers, father and son. Had the original manuscript been
printed, the work would have appeared very differently.

I wish to examine the history of the birth of our Hercules,

our Samson, our David, the navy, in Washington's letters,

in Ramsay, in Bancroft, &c. &c. I hope some of them have

given a more satisfactory account.

Your's as ever,

John Adams.
Vice-President Gerry.

TO THE BINDER.

The binder will place the fac-simile to face page 196.

ERRATUM.

In page 272, for Jonathan W. Sewall read Jonathan Sew all.

END.

ill

II

V'.VTttfti'rf


===== Elbridge Gerry - Life of Elbridge Gerry, with contemporary letters (J. T. Austin, 2 vols, PD) (vol. 2) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/lifeelbridgegerry02austrich/lifeelbridgegerry02austrich_djvu.txt

NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES

(

)

I

THE LiIFE

or

ELBRIDGE GERRY.

SKSrctu <&onttmpovzv& Setters.

FROM THE CLOSE OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION.

By JAMES T. AUSTIN.

BOSTON :

WELLS AND LILLY— COURT-STREET.

1829.

• ** • •

* ' -

■ * * >

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS, TO WIT:

District Clerlft Office.

BEIT BF.Mn-.lwmi'.TlKD, that on the first day of January, A. D. 1829, in the fifty-
third year of the Independents «P rfic UnHcd ouiura ur AumVii, vvrli^ anil Lilly, of the
■aid District, have deposited in this Office the Title of a Book, the Bight whereof they
claim as Proprietors, in the words following, to wit :

" The Life of F.lhridge Gerry. With Contemporary Letters. From the close of the
American Revolution. By James T. Austin."

In conformity to the Act of the Congress of the United States, entitled " An Act for
the encouragement of Learning, by securing the Copies of Maps, Charts and Books, to the
Authors and Proprietors of such Copies, during the times therein mentioned ;" and also to
an Act, entitled, " An act supplementary to an Act, entitled An Act for the encourage-
ment of Learning, by securing the Copies of Maps, Charts and Books, to the Authors and
Proprietors of such Copies during the times therein mentioned ; and extending the Benefits
thereof to the Arts of Designing, Engraving, and Etching Historical, and other Prints."

JNO. W. DAVIS,
Clerk of the District of Massachusetts

ADVERTISEMENT.

The continuation of the Biography promised in
the first volume is now submitted to the public; —
sooner indeed than was then intended — but in de-
ference to the opinion of many whom the author
did not feel at liberty to disregard.

Boston, Massachusetts,

January 1, 1829,

CONTENTS.

PAGE

CHAPTER I.

State of the country Convention at Annapolis... At

Philadelphia form a constitution of government for the
United States Details of its progress - - - 1

CHAPTER II.

Disapproves the constitution His letter to the legislature

of Massachusetts Objections considered Parties on

the merits of the constitution Judge Dana proposes to

annihilate Rhode Island Massachusetts convention to

consider the constitution of the United States Proceed-
ings in convention Governour Hancock Constitu-
tion adopted . - - - - - 38

CHAPTER III.

Popular feeling in Massachusetts on the adoption of the con-
stitution Letter to General Warren The Federal

party become a majority Consequences Mr. Gerry

a candidate for Congress Letter to the Electors

Letter to the Governour To General Warren - 79

CHAPTER IV.

First Congress of United States Parties therein

Speech on amendments to the Constitution The pub-
lic creditors Employments of private life Origin of

the Democratic party Commentary on the account of it

given by the biographer of Washington French revo-
lution British treaty Chosen to the Electoral Col- ,

VI CONTENTS.

FACE

lege of Massachusetts Votes for Mr. Adams Cor-
respondence with Mr. Jefferson on the election With

a lady - - - - - - - 98

CHAPTER V.

Cabinet of President Adams Mr. Gerry nominated on a

mission to France Hostility of Mr. Pickering Ac-
ceptance urged by Mr. Jefferson Letter from Mr. Otis

Arrival in Paris State of France Retrospective

history of the connexion between France and the United
States - - - - - - - 146

CHAPTER VI.

History of the joint mission of Messrs. Pinckney, Marshall

and Gerry to the French republic Messrs. Marshall

and Pinckney leave France Mr. Gerry remains

His conduct - 190

CHAPTER VII.

Commentary on the mission to France, and strictures on
colonel Pickering's publications in relation to it - - 239

CHAPTER VIII.

Commentary on the mission continued Further strictures

on Mr. Pickering's publications - 279

CHAPTER IX.

Returns to Massachusetts Proposed for Governour of

the Commonwealth Private life Pecuniary and

domestic misfortune Character Member of the

electoral college of Massachusetts .Presides at a meet-
ing in relation to the attack on the frigate Chesapeake - 296

«

CHAPTER X.

Elected Governour of Massachusetts Conciliatory tem-
per of the administration Degree of doctor of laws

conferred on him by Harvard College Inauguration o£

i

CONTENTS. Vll

PAGE

president Kirkland Reelected governour of Massachu-
setts Policy of the administration changed Speech

to the legislature Measures of the republican party

Their character considered Doctrine of libel

Correspondence with judge Parker Message to the le-
gislature on the same subject Message on the resour-
ces of the state Complies with a requisition of the

government of the United States for a detachment of mi-
litia Is superseded as governour of Massachusetts - 313

CHAPTER XL

Elected vice-president of the United States Address of

congratulation from his friends in Massachusetts Na-
tional and state policy Presides in the senate of the

United States The cabinet His opinion of the op-
position in Massachusetts Sudden death Funeral

Proposed bill to continue his salary to his widow lost

in the house of representatives His monument

Inscription ------ 403, 404

ERRATA.

Page 21, note, for cong. read conv.

Page 83, 18th line, for disunion read discussion.

Page 104, 5th line, dele the subject of.

Page 227, 17th line, for 1748 read 1798.

Page 279, 15th line, dele the semicolon after the word forgotten.

Page 307, 29th line, fox for read from.

Page 328, 8th line, for mass read Massachusetts.

Page 399, 6th line, for show read shew.

THE LIFE

OF

ELBRIOGE GERRY.

CHAPTER I.

Slate of the country Convention at Annapolis At Philadel-
phia form a constitution of government for the United States

Details of Us progress.

A former volume has recounted the agency of
this distinguished citizen in the service of his coun-
try, from the dawn of the revolution until after the
peace of 1 7J53. It closed at a period when retir-
ing from the scenes of his former labours, he was
entering on new engagements in private life, with
the honours of a well earned popularity, and the
richer treasure of domestic happiness.

The relaxation then allowed him was hardly in-
terrupted by a place in the house of representa-
tives of Massachusetts, to which his fellow towns-
men immediately elected him on his return from
the congress of the United States, as a mark of

vol. ii. 1

2 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

their affection and respect.* But the habits of his
life were too strongly interwoven with the public
interest to render him an indifferent spectator of
political affairs, which notwithstanding the cessa-
tion of hostilities, were not less alarming than dur-
ing the most disastrous periods of the war.

The government of the United States had a
merely nominal existence in 1786. Foreign pow-
ers beheld its weakness almost without disguising
their contempt. They seemed to be guided by a
belief, that, altho' the relation of the colonies to
Great Britain had been nominally dissolved, there
was a natural inability in a people to preserve the
forms of self-government, and that a period of an-
archy would place the spoils of freedom within
their reach, or that the new nation would revert to
its former dependence, chastened and humbled
by the wearisome and useless exertions it had
made.

The condition of things at home presented the
same gloomy appearance. The authority of con-
gress had fallen from its original dignity. It was
manifest that it could not long compress or direct
the separate power of the states, whose conflict-
ing interests threatened every day a dissolution of
the confederacy. The high personal character,
which had once constituted the principal sanction

* Congress having passed a resolve for appointing commis-
sioners to settle with the contractors of the army, the ollice was
conferred on Mr. Gerry, but he declined accepting it.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 3

of its measures, was departing from its councils.
The statesmen of the revolution, dissatisfied with
its imbecility, had mostly retired to other depart-
ments ; the tew who remained were unable to pre-
serve its original energy. Some of them honestly
believed that its vitality could not be prolonged,
and that patriotism might permit it to expire, in
the hope of evoking from its ashes a spirit of higher
capacity and power.

MR. KING TO MR. GERRY.

New-York, Jan. 7, 1787.

My Dear Sir,

Congress is not yet organized, and it is uncer-
tain when it will be ; the anxiety and dissatisfac-
tion still continues, which has for some time exist-
ed, concerning the government of these states.
God only knows what will prove the issue. It is
most certain that things will not long continue in
their present condition if foreseeing the dangers
which hang over us, we do not unite in measures
calculated to establish the public happiness ; I am
confident that no man will be able to bear up
against the calamitous events, which will other-
wise force themselves into existence.

You have seen the Virginia law for the appoint-
ment of delegates to a convention in Philadelphia
in May ; Gen. Washington, Mr. Wythe, Randolph,

4 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Madison and others are appointed for this con-
vention. Pennsylvania have appointed Mifflin, the
two Morris, Fitzsimmons and three others on the
part of that state ; Hamilton, who is a member of
the assembly of this state, will exert himself to in-
duce them to send members ; Jay and others are
opposed to the measure, not alone because it is un-
authorized, but from an opinion that the result will
prove inefficacious.

General Washington will not attend, although
there will be at the same time and place a gene-
ral meeting of deputies from all the state societies
of the Cincinnati. If Massachusetts should send
deputies, for Godsake be careful who are the
men ; the times are becoming critical ; a movement
of this nature ought to be carefully observed by
every member of the community.

I beg you to be assured of the constant friend-
ship of

Your's sincerely,

Rufus King*
Hon. Mr. Gerry.

Among the most obvious causes for the embar-
rassments and distress of the country was the con-
dition of its commerce. In separating from Great
Britain, the United States had become with re-
gard to that country a foreign nation, and could
not expect an exemption from her navigation laws,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 5

at least without conceding an equivalent, which
there was no general authority to regulate or prof-
fer. The importance of the American trade had
been felt both before and during the war of the
revolution, and it readily presented itself to the
statesmen of the day as an instrument to be used
for the securing of reciprocal advantages with the
commercial countries of Europe. It was therefore
determined to take such measures as would place
this great interest under one central power, who
should direct it for the general good, and a con-
vention for this purpose was projected to assemble
at Annapolis in Maryland. Delegates were ac-
cordingly appointed by several states, to convene
there on the first Monday of Sept. 1786; and Mas-
sachusetts authorized "Lieut, governour Gushing,
Elbridge Gerry, Francis Dana and Stephen Hig-
ginson to meet such commissioners as might be ap-
pointed by other states of the union, for the pur-
pose of considering the trade of the United States,
of examining the relative situation and trade of the
said states, of considering how far an uniform sys-
tem in their commercial regulations might be ne-
cessary to their common interest and permanent
harmony, and of reporting to the United States in
congress assembled such an act relative to this
great object as when agreed to by them, and con-
firmed by the legislature of every state, will en-
able the United States in congress assembled ef-
fectually to provide for the same."

6 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

In this cautious manner was the first step taken
to establish a government of authority over the se-
parate states. But the measure was evidently too
limited and inefficient for the purposes intended.
The commissioners from Massachusetts viewed it
in this light, and severally declined accepting the
appointment, and the delegates of the few states
who assembled at the time designated, did little
more than give currency to a conviction that a
radical change in the organization of the govern-
ment would be necessary for its safety.

A project was gradually maturing to hold a
general convention in Philadelphia, with exten-
sive powers and ampler duties. In Massachusetts
a rebellion had broken out against the local gov-
ernment, and the rebels had resorted to arms.
The utmost energy of the civil and an expensive
exertion of military power was required to suppress
it. The danger of such a state of things, and the
practical illustration of the doctrine, that a govern-
ment strong enough to execute the laws was de-
manded for the personal security of the citizens,
turned men's minds more seriously to the duty of
providing such stability as should prevent the law-
less repetitions of outrage. The character of the
state was elevated by the firmness and decision of
its constituted authorities, and an argument deduc-
ed from these circumstances for providing the same
useful power for the emergencies of the nation.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 7

MR. KING TO MR. GERRY.

New-York, Feb. 11, 1787.

My Dear Friend,
I congratulate you on the favourable situation of
the government in the western counties ; Lincoln
has undoubtedly answered the most sanguine ex-
pectations of his friends, and indeed I confess has
accomplished, by the aid of warrants, what I did
not apprehend could be effected in that cautious
manner of proceeding.

The declaration of the existence of a rebellion
will do great honour to the government, constitu-
tion and Massachusetts. I can already mark good
consequences in the opinions, which it authorizes
relative to our vigour and spirit. I feel myself a
much more important man than I was in the hu-
mility of a few days past.

I hope the most extensive and minute attention
will now be paid to the eradicating of every seed
of insurgency ; remember however that punish-
ment to be efficacious should not be extensive ;
a few and those of the most consequence should be
the victims of law. Do you attend the legisla-
ture ? How will they stand on the plan of a con-
vention at Philadelphia ? For a number of rea-
sons, although my sentiments are the same as to
the legality of this measure, I think we ought not
to oppose, but to coincide with this project. Let

8 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the appointment be numerous, and if possible let
the men have a good knowledge of the constitu-
tions and various interests of the several states,
and of the good and bad qualities of the confede-
ration.

Events are hurrying us to a crisis ; prudent and
sagacious men should be ready to seize the most
favourable circumstances to establish a more per-
fect and vigorous government. I hope you will be
at leisure to attend the convention. Madison is
here. I presume he will be preparing himself for
the convention ; you know he is a delegate for
Virginia ; he professes great expectation as to the
good effects of the measure.

Farewell, R. King.

The articles of confederation, which feeble as
they were, yet formed the only cord of connexion
between the states, did not seem to authorize a
general convention of delegates without the advice
and consent of the United States in congress as-
sembled. In some parts of the country their ap-
probation was not deemed indispensable, in others
the movements of the local legislatures were re-
tarded by a deference to the only authority, which
had even the semblance of a control over national
affairs. Popular feeling soon gave a suitable di-
rection to congress, and on 21st February 1787,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 9

they resolved, in pursuance of the provisions of the
confederation that a convention of delegates, to be
appointed by the several states, be holden at Phi-
ladelphia, on the second Monday of that year, " for
the sole and express purpose of revising the arti-
cles of confederation, and reporting to congress
and the several legislatures, such alterations and
provisions therein, as shall, when agreed to in
congress and confirmed by the states render the
federal constitution adequate to the exigencies
of the government and the preservation of the
union."

This act of congress gave all the legality, which
the existing forms of government required to the
proposed assembly, and a convention was formed
at the time and place appointed in the resolve by
delegates from all the states of the union, except-
ing Rhode Island. Sixty-five persons were elect-
ed members of the convention. Of these, fifty-
five attended its sessions. Six of them had af-
fixed their signature to the declaration of inde-
pendence in 1776. Among the others were the
most distinguished names on the merit roll of the
country, and at their head the illustrious leader of
the American armies, who again lent the weight
of his high personal character to secure with the
fortress of civil institutions, the liberties he had
protected through the vicissitudes of war.

The legislature of Massachusetts, on the 10th
of March, appointed to the honourable and respon-

vol. ii. 2

10 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

sible trust of representing its interests, and the
common interest of the union in the convention
at Philadelphia, Francis Dana, Elbridge Gerry,
Nathaniel Gorham, Rufus King and Caleb Strong.
The great importance attached to the duty is de-
monstrated by the imposing weight of character
selected for its performance.

The convention being organized, Edmund Ran-
dolph, formerly governour of Virginia, on 29th May,
proposed for consideration fifteen resolutions, as
the groundwork of a constitution, and Charles
Pinckney of South Carolina offered a draught of
a national government in sixteen articles. These
several propositions were referred to a committee
of the whole convention, and formed a text for

debate.

The august tribunal to whom this important
subject was intrusted, was the first in the history
of mankind in which a great and free people had
undertaken by their representatives to establish
the principles and forms of civil government. Its
members brought to the mighty task a rare spirit
of patriotism and unimpeached integrity. But
their situation was wholly without precedent.
Questions presented themselves which philosophy
had never attempted to solve, nor experience, that
better teacher in politics, been called upon to de-
cide.

The same intelligence and ability of mind and
the same honest desire to promote the common

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY. 11

good, might from education or habit or local
situation reason very differently on topics, which
this convention were called to decide. As the
condition of affairs, which rendered some modifi-
cation of the existing government necessary, was
traced to one or another set of causes, so unques-
tionably would be considered the propriety of
erecting a new building, or endeavouring to repair
the tottering fabric, which had become wholly un-
suited to the times.

Among the delegates in convention were many,
who had been practically sensible with what limp-
ing steps the measures of congress had proceed-
ed in the days of revolution, and how imperfectly
its want of authority had been aided by such
auxiliary motives as could be brought to bear on
the people. They had felt the wastefulness and
ruin produced by the negligence or the obstinacy
of those, on whom the government were obliged
to rely without the power to command. They
had beheld the army at one time almost disband-
ed, because there existed no coercive power to
fill its ranks ; and famishing and freezing at an-
other, because there was no lawful way of appro-
priating to its use the resources of the country.
They had seen the credit of the country exhaust-
ed in war, when yet it was rich in those means
on which credit might properly be based ; and in
peace they had found commerce languishing, in-
dustry paralyzed, and the character of the nation

12 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

degraded, because no concentrated power could
direct its natural spirit of enterprise, or arrange
with its rivals a fair competition in proportion
to its means. These members might naturally
enough consider the weakness of the public arm
as the cause of general distress, and be expected
to place their dependence for future prosperity
only on a government strong enough to secure
obedience to its will.

On the other side were many among the dele-
gates at Philadelphia, who in the appropriate walks
of civil life had first been called to withstand the
encroachments of established authority ; who had
commenced their labours in the public service by
investigating and explaining the rights of the peo-
ple in opposition to the claims of the government ;
who had learned as an axiom in politics, that
power, by its own appropriate energy, however
obtained, or by whomsoever possessed, will in-
crease and extend and perpetuate itself; and trac-
ing to this principle all the misery and desolation
of the recent war, and all the sufferings and sa-
crifices, which had been required to bring it to a
close, might very reasonably entertain a jealousy
of every depositary of political power and rely for
the security of public liberty on the inability of
invading it.

With too little power in the government, it was
obvious that neither independence nor tranquillity
could be preserved ; with too much, a battery

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 13

would be erected hostile to liberty. Where was
the exact point in which the advantages of autho-
rity could be realized without its dangers, and
freedom preserved without the hazard of anarchy ?
On this great question the records of history were
silent ; the memorials of former ages were those
of licentiousness or despotism. Rulers and peo-
ple were so constantly in conflict that hostility be-
tween them seemed an unavoidable condition of
human society.

On such a debateable field it is not surprising
that the members of the American convention
could at first find no neutral ground. In addition
to the difficulties already enumerated others exist-
ed in the condition of the country, scarcely less
perplexing. The delegates who assembled were
representatives of sovereign states, met together
in confederacy, each of whose members was equal
to either of the others. In its integral character,
each state exercised all the powers of an inde-
pendent political body, and the new sovereignty,
if one was to be created, could obtain no other
authority than what was shorn from these separate
parts. But the equality existing among these
parts was that of rights, and not of strength.
They differed among themselves in territory, po-
pulation, wealth, physical and moral resources,
and in whatever other means of advancement one
people could have over another. If a contribution
to the common head was to be made in proportion

14 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

to the relative condition of the parts, they would
retain after the existence of the new government,
all their original inequality, and the smaller having
an inferior share of power, could not be expected
very cordially to accede to the plan. If any other
principle was adopted, a sacrifice would be exact-
ed of the larger, in which it was against all the
analogies of human conduct to expect they would
readily concur.

Concession and compromise became therefore
indispensable ; but whatever is thus produced,
though it may have the support of all, rarely pos-
sesses the approbation of any.

When the common good is to be purchased by
individual sacrifice, he whose former risrhts are
curtailed finds it often very difficult to realize that
he has received an equivalent in exchange. There
will naturally be a struggle to make the substruc-
tion as little as possible, and a reluctance both in
demanding and yielding, which may destroy the
beneficial purposes of the original design. The
inconvenience of this state of things was fully felt
by the delegates at Philadelphia.

A question of authority early presented itself
for the consideration of the convention, and miffht
by one form of decision have been fatal to the
hopes of the country. The resolve of the conti-
nental congress authorized the assembling of de-
legates for the sole and express purpose of revis-
ing the articles of the confederation and reporting

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 15

amendments. The commission to the Massachu-
setts members, and to all others appointed by a
state legislature under the operation of this act,
expressly or by necessary implication confined
their authority to this exact object. The mem-
bers from Virginia and some others had been ap-
pointed in pursuance of the recommendation made
by the former convention at Annapolis, indepen-
dent of any resolve of congress, and were not
therefore absolutely bound by its terms. Not-
withstanding this difference, was it not the ex-
pectation of the whole people that the confede-
ration should be revised merely and not destroyed ;
that amendments should be made to the old sys-
tem and not that a new one should be formed,
and would the adoption of either of the plans pro-
posed conform to the authority of the delegates ?

This question, which is not without plausibility
on either side, was of primary importance in an
assembly which could not consistently begin a sys-
tem of free government in an act of usurpation, or
expect the confidence of the people while they
transgressed their authority. Tt was seized upon
with masterly skill by some members of the con-
vention who found that the majority were likely
to adopt a system, which they could not approve,
and who hoped by the practice of legislative tac-
tics of this sort to defeat what they could not in
any other way successfully oppose. But the con-

16 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

vention was rather a committee to advise, than a
senate to decree ; they could only recommend,
they could not enact ; and however limited might
have been the request, which their constituents
made of them, no harm could be done by submit-
ting to the deliberation and good sense of the
community what the authority of the people, and
not the acts of the convention must afterwards
legalize in order to give it effect.

If the authority conferred by congress or by the
several states on the convention at Philadelphia,
extended only to the proposing of repairs in the
old edifice, it is fortunate they were bold enough
to disregard the strict letter of their duty in a
fair execution of the spirit of it, and instead of
propping up the disjointed and crazy building to
commence that splendid architecture, in which
safely reposes the liberties of their country. In
deciding thus to do, the division was not made by
the line, which finally distinguished the different
parties. All the members from Massachusetts
were in the majority.

When these preliminaries were settled, the way
was yet hardly opened for the successful prosecu-
tion of the grand design. Another question pre-
sented itself not connected with any difficulties of
detail. It was, whether the new constitution
should establish a federal or a national govern-
ment ; that is to say, whether it should act upon
the states as states, or upon the people compos-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 17

ing the states in their individual capacity of citi-
zens. This important question was not only to be
decided prior to all arrangements about the powers
or form of the new government, but it entered so
intimately into every part of the system, that it
was a constantly recurring cause of dissension and
debate.

The propositions of governour Randolph, or as
they were commonly called, the Virginia plan,
avowedly constituted a national government, but
the tone and vigour of the government was to be
raised or depressed, not more by the degree of
power to be given to it, than the manner in which
its power should be deposited. Whenever that
part of the Virginia plan was under consideration
in which these points were presented, great con-
trariety of opinion among the members was alarm-
ingly made manifest.

The discussions, which these important and con-
flicting subjects excited, occupied the convention
until the 15th June. During this period the dis-
position of the members was in a good degree de-
veloped, the advantage of conceited action was
apparent, and the union thus produced began to
establish something like the lines of party. The
courteous and conciliatory temper with which the
session commenced, though sometimes infringed in
the ardour of debate, still maintained its influence
among the members, while difficulties in the way
of any satisfactory conclusion began to present

VOL. II. 3

18 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

themselves in a manner, which it was feared com-
promise could not remove.

In this stage of the convention Mr. Patterson
of New Jersey offered a series of resolutions pro-
posing what he considered a plan of government
strictly federative, in contradistinction to that al-
ready discussed, which was supposed to be wholly
national.

These resolutions resulted from the consultations
of members dissatisfied with the schemes hitherto
debated, and by way of distinction were called the
Jersey resolutions. In the forms of proceeding,
according to the rules and orders of the house,
they were moved as a substitute for the plan of
Virginia. The differences between the two were
principally the following : The Virginia plan pro-
posed a legislature, to derive its powers from the
people, and to consist of two branches. The Jer-
sey resolutions deduced the legislative authority
from the states, and vested it in a single body.
By the Virginia plan, as it was then drawn out,
the legislative authority extended to all national
concerns, had a veto on all state laws, and could
be directed by the will of the majority. The Jer-
sey resolutions confined this authority to certain
enumerated subjects and required in many cases,
the concurrence of more than a majority of mem-
bers. The Virginia plan placed the executive
power in a single officer, removable only by im-
peachment ; the other placed the executive power

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 19

in a plural number, removable on application of a
majority of the states. The Virginia plan provid-
ed for inferior judiciary tribunals ; that of New
Jersey made no arrangement in this particular.

At this period it is obvious that the convention
had made but little progress in the scheme of that
splendid edifice, alike bold and beautiful, which
they afterwards completed.

The two plans were however sufficiently mark-
ed and distinct to bring on again discussions,
which well nigh caused the convention to sepa-
rate. The views and feelings of the members had
by this time become pretty well understood among
themselves. An observer of no common accuracy
and intellectual strength, in an official communica-
tion justifying his own final negative, has classed
them in three parties, of very different sentiments.
One, though a small one, wished to abolish and an-
nihilate all state governments, and to bring for-
ward one general government over this extensive
continent, of a monarchical nature, under certain
restrictions and limitations. The second party was
not for the abolition of the state governments, nor
for the introduction of a monarchical government
under any form, but they wished to establish such
a system as could give their own states undue
power and influence in the government over the
other states. It is in this second class he intend-
ed to include both Mr. Gerry and governour Ran-
dolph. If, by undue power and influence, the

20 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

learned commentator meant only that power and
influence which wealth, population and territory,
would naturally confer in an association where
these were unequally possessed, the description is
not to be complained of as unfair.

Another party, according to the same writer,
considered by him truly federal and republican,
and nearly equal in number to the other two, were
for proceeding upon terms of federal equality ; they
were for taking the existing system as the basis of
their proceedings, and remedying such defects, or
giving such new powers as experience made ne-
cessary. The existing system, it is known, ac-
knowledged the perfect equality of all and every
of the confederated states. From this latter party
emanated the Jersey resolutions.

In the discussions, which followed the introduc-
tion of the resolutions from Jersey, col. Hamilton,
from New- York, presented his views in a scheme
altogether different from either, which had come
before the convention. He said he had well
considered the subject, and was convinced that no
amendment of the confederation could answer the
purpose of a good government, so long as state go-
vernments did in any shape exist, and he had great
doubts whether a national government on the New
Jersey plan could be made effectual. The scheme
of col. Hamilton proposed that the legislature
should consist of two branches, the one to be elect-
ed for three years, the other for good behaviour,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 21

the former by the people, the latter by electors
chosen by the people. The executive was to con-
sist of a single individual, with the unpretending
name of governour, to be elected by electors chosen
by electors elected by the people, to hold his of-
fice during good behaviour, to have the sole ap-
pointment of the chief officers of the departments,
and the nomination of all others except ministers
to foreign courts. The government of the Union
was also to appoint the chief executive magistrate
of each of the states, in whom was to be placed
an unqualified power of negativing any law about
to be passed in the state over which he presided.

The inferior points of his system conformed to
the boldness of these prominent parts.

*

* Journal of cong. p. 130. Pickering's Review, p. 172. Mar-
shall's biography of Washington, in a note to page 353 of vol.5,
adds, "It has been published by the enemies of Mr. Hamilton,
that he was in favour of a president and senate who should hold
their office during good behaviour." Whether by enemy or
friend the publication was substantially true, unless indeed some
equivocation maybe played upon the words "in favour," and
that it may be conceived he was in fact not in favour of his own
proposition.

Col. H. himself, in a letter to Col. Pickering in 1803, when the
extreme unpopularity of such a proposition was most manifest,
and after the overthrow of the political party of which those
gentlemen were the chiefs, owing, as it unquestionably was, to
their high toned notions of government, availed himself of some
such ingenious distinction. He avows making the proposition,
which it was well known to him was on record, and would one
day be published. "The highest toned propositions, which I
made in the convention were for a president, senate and judges,
during good behaviour ;" but he leaves the reader to infer that

22 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

It is probable the three schemes at that time
before the convention, may be considered as au-

his mind had not settled down definitively in approbation of his
own proposals. " I may add (he says, referring to his project in
convention) that in the course of the discussions in the conven-
tion, neither the propositions thrown out for debate, nor even
those voted in the earlier stages of deliberation, were considered
as evidences of a deliberative opinion in the proposer or voter."
That they show the tendency and bias of the proposer's mind
can hardly admit of doubt. But the apology is unavailing. His
proposition was not thrown out for debate. He did not venture
to urge a direct discussion of it ; but that it was no light or ca-
sual suggestion is proved by the dignity of the place and the high
intellectual character of the speaker, and by the strong corrobo-
rative language at other times used by him in the course of dis-
cussion. Nor can it be excused on the idea that it was in the
earliest stages of deliberation. The proposition was made on
the 18th day of June, when the general sentiments of the dele-
gates had matured and ripened, and when parties marked by
their settled peculiarities of opinion were already defined. It
was introduced on a great and grave occasion, when the whole
force and strength of each individual was called into exertion,
and at a time when the existence of any constitution might
depend on a single vote. There is a completeness in the
scheme of col. H. which might excuse a man from being consid-
ered among his " enemies" if he did publish that the proposer
was in favour of something more than a republican government.
The appointment of a governour to each state by the executive
of the union, and the unqualified veto, which such governour
would have on the state legislatures, would so far change the
relative character of the state governments that a friend of state
sovereignty might be excused for considering them annihilated ;
yet, in his letter above cited, col. H. declares, " I never contem-
plated the abolition of the state governments."

Col. Hamilton's system was introduced by a speech, in
which he maintained and defended the principles, which led to
such startling and novel results. In a mode of illustration not
exactly in the style of eloquence for which he was afterwards

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 23

thorizing the remark of the attorney general of
Maryland before alluded to ; at any rate they pre-
sented three forms of government, as distinct from
each other, as the classes into which, according
to his account, the convention were divided.

The plan of colonel Hamilton was never dis-
tinctly brought into debate ; that of New Jersey
was, after a sharp contest, on motion of Mr. King,
voted to be inadmissible ; and again the conven-
tion seriously betook themselves to the task of
arranging in detail the successive propositions first
submitted from Virginia. In this object, however,
the predominant feelings of the friends of the re-
jected systems were constantly appearing in their
contrarient efforts to consolidate the national pow-
er, or to strengthen the authority of the states, and
to give a more popular form to the projected go-
vernment. As an example of this may be men-
tioned the debate on the tenure of the office of
senator. On one side it was moved (by Mr. Read
of Delaware) that it should be during good beha-
viour. Nine, seven, six and four years were sever-
ally proposed ; Mr. Sherman of Connecticut re-
marked, a bad government is the worse for being

distinguished, he remarked, " 1 confess that my plan and that
from Virginia, are very remote from the ideas of the people.
Perhaps the Jersey plan is nearer their expectation. Rut the
people are gradually ripening in their opinions of government —
they begin to be tired of an excess of democracy ; and what
even is the Virginia plan but pork still, with a little change of
the sauce."

24 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

long. Frequent elections give security and even
permanency. In Connecticut we have existed
132 years under an annual government, and as
as long as a man behaves himself well, he is never
turned out.

Col. Hamilton. We are now forming a repub-
lican government. Real liberty is neither found
in despotism or the extremes of democracy, but
in moderate governments. Those who mean to
form a solid republican government, ought to pro-
ceed to the confines of another government.

Mr. Gerry. It appears to me that the Ameri-
can people have the greatest aversion to monarchy,
and the nearer the new government approaches to
it, the less chance have we for their approbation.

After this debate the question was carried for
five years, and a biennial rotation.

But the utmost strength of the opposing par-
ties was displayed on the question of representa-
tion. It was now well understood that neither
the federative plan of New Jersey nor the monar-
chical scheme offered by the delegate from New-
York, could be successful, but that the Virginia
resolutions must be modified to the acceptance
of the convention or its members would separate
without coming to any result.

But this again brought into operation all those
principles, feelings and attachments, general and
local, by which the several parties in the conven-
tion were already designated. To preserve under

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 25

a national government that federative principle,
which should give each member of the confedera-
cy an equality of power still continued the first
object of the advocates of state rights, which those
who were desirous of a consolidated government,
and those who were willing to preserve the state
sovereignties in their relative importance here
found a common ground, on which their efforts
might be united.

The difficulties on this perplexing subject, and
the fluctuating opinions of the convention are seen
in the progress of the examination, and the differ-
ent votes of the convention at different times.
Governour Randolph's original draught directed
the members of the first* branch to be chosen by
the people of the states and those of the second
by the first, out of a proper number of persons
nominated by the individual legislatures, but their
relative numbers were not defined by him. In
the debate on 7th June, this was altered, and it
was resolved that the members of the second branch
should be chosen by the state legislatures. On
the 11th June, the convention decided that " the
right of suffrage in the first branch of the nation-
al legislature ought not to be according to the rule
established in the articles of confederation," (which
gave each state one vote) "but according to

* In the early period of the convention the popular branch
of the legislature was usually called the first: and the senate the
second. It was subsequently changed.
VOL. II. 4

26 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

some equitable ratio of representation," and after-
wards that the representation should be in pro-
portion to the whole number of white and other
free citizens of every age, sex and condition,
including those bound to servitude for a term of
years, and three-fifths of all other persons not
comprehended in the foregoing description, except
Indians, not paying taxes in each state." And this
modification was at that time agreed to by all the
states but New Jersey and Delaware. The con-
vention then refused to sustain a motion that in
the second branch of the national legislature each
state should have one vote, but resolved that the
right of suffrage in the second branch ought to be
according to the rule established for the first, which
latter proposition was supported by all the large
states and opposed by all the small ones, except-
ing only that New-York voted against it.

As yet however nothing definite was settled.
The several propositions of governour Randolph
and the modifications and amendments of the con-
vention were on the 19th June presented by the
committee of the whole to the house in the shape,
which the votes of the committee had given them,
by which it appeared to be the sense of the com-
mittee that the equality of the states was not to
be allowed in either branch of the legislature, but
a rule was to be established according to some
equitable ratio of representation, which ratio was
yet to be ascertained. On the question whether

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 27

these resolutions should be accepted by the house
they who disapproved the report, " found it ne-
cessary" to use the words of the attorney general
of Maryland " to make a warm and decided oppo-
sition," to which he himself contributed by speak-
ing " upwards of three hours." The report in
favour of inequality in the first branch was sus-
tained, but when the question on a like inequality
in the second branch was taken in the conven-
tion, five states were in favour and five against it ;
the vote of the eleventh, which had only two
members on the floor, being lost by division of
opinion between the delegates.

In such a state of disagreement as to this most
important and essential part of the system, the
convention might well be considered as approach-
ing to the termination of their labours, and aban-
doning to all the storms of anarchy the country,
which they had not ability to preserve. But the
good genius of the nation prevailed. A commit-
tee of compromise was appointed, consisting of
one from each state, of which Mr. Gerry was
elected chairman, who reported that happy ar-
rangement, which substantially now forms the con-
stitution of the United States. It was not how-
ever accomplished without great difficulty, and
produced new discussions in the committee of a
like temper and earnestness with that, which had
marked the discussions in the house. We met,
says Mr. Martin, and discussed the subject of

28 LIFE OF ELBKIDGE GERRY.

difference ; the one side insisted on inequality
of suffrage in both branches, the other insisted on
equality in both ; each party was tenacious of its
sentiments. When it was found that nothing could
induce us to yield the inequality in both branches,
they at length proposed by way of compromise,
if we would accede to their wishes as to the first
branch, they would agree to the equal representa-
tion in the second. To this it was answered, that
there was no merit in the proposal ; it was only
consenting, after they had struggled to put both
their feet on our necks, to take one of them off,
provided we would consent to let them keep the
other on, when they knew at the same time, they
could not put one foot on our necks, unless we
would consent to it, and that by being permitted
to keep on that one foot, they would afterwards be
able to place the other foot on whenever they
pleased.

A majority of the select committee (he conti-
nues) at length agreed to a series of propositions
by way of compromise, part of which related to
the representation in the first branch nearly as the
system is now published, and part of them to the
second branch, securing in that an equal represent-
ation, and reported them as a compromise upon
the express terms that they were wholly to be ac-
cepted or wholly to be rejected ; upon this com-
promise a great number of the members so far en-
gaged themselves that if the system was progress-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 29

ed upon agreeably to the terms of compromise
they would lend it their names by signing it, and
would not actively oppose it, if their states should
appear inclined to adopt it. Some however, in
which number was myself, who joined in the re-
port, agreed to proceed upon those principles, and
see what kind of a system would ultimately be
formed upon it, yet reserved to themselves in the
most explicit manner the right of finally giving a
solemn dissent to the system if it was thought by
them inconsistent with the freedom and happiness
of their country. This will explain why the mem-
bers of the convention so generally signed their
names to the system ; not because they thoroughly
approved or thought it a proper one, but because
they thought it better than the system attempted
to be forced on them.

This report of the select committee was after
long dissension adopted by a majority of the con-
vention, and the system was proceeded in accord-
ingly. Near a fortnight, perhaps more, was spent
in the discussion of this business, during which we
were on the verge of dissolution, scarce held to-
gether by the strength of a hair, though the public
papers were announcing our extreme unanimity.

The report produced by the committee of com-
promise, and accepted by the house, established
the relative rank of the several states as they would
stand in representation under the forms of the new
constitution, a great and difficult subject, but not

30 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the only one, which had occasioned an alarming di-
versity of opinion.

The chairman of that committee, without pledg-
ing himself for his vote on the final questions before
the convention, laboured to bring about a satisfac-
tory result of this intricate subject, which ought to
exculpate him from every suspicion of being hostile
to the specific objects of the convention, or of
maintaining an irreconcilable animosity to the plan
in progress.

At the time when this important committee
were endeavouring to reconcile the conflicting
sentiments of their colleagues, it is evident he
must have been sensible of the advantage of ac-
complishing the duty assigned him, and that there
was a possible, and even highly probable expect-
ation of doing so in the way indicated by the course
the convention had pursued.

Factious hostility to any rational form of gene-
ral government, imputed to those who did not con-
cur in the eventual labours of the delegates, can
with no propriety be charged on one who devoted
so many anxious hours to the elaborating a practi-
cable scheme as was employed by the members of
this efficient committee, in whose power it would
have been, at any moment, to have brought the
business of the convention to an unsuccessful ter-
mination.

The report of this committee, by affording some
prospect that one of the most unmanageable points

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 31

of controversy was not fatally decisive of success,
revived the hopes of the assembly, and excited a
new spirit of exertion. A draught of the consti-
tution, as it was presented by the resolutions adopt-
ed in the progress of discussion, was printed for the
exclusive use of the members. After being again
revised and amended, a new edition was printed
for the same purpose. Both of them, and more
essentially the first, differ from the instrument,
which received the signature of the members and
became the supreme law of the land. In these
documents the modifications successively made in
the form of the constitution may be traced, some
of them serving only to show the slow progress by
which the charter of government attained its even-
tual excellence, and others marking changes of a
serious character, which the maturer judgment, or
often the temporizing policy of the parties recom-
mended for adoption.

These tracks of the progress of the convention
are like old charts of a well known coast, more re-
garded by the antiquary, who traces out the errors
of the first adventurers, than by the navigator who
has no interest beyond the most recent discoveries.
They will not however escape the researches
of a curiosity eager to take every shoal and current
in the great sea of political liberty.

The preamble to the first printed copy of the
proposed constitution differs from the one finally
accepted in omitting to state the objects for which

32 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the constitution is framed. It is simply, " We,
the people of the states of New-Hampshire, &c.
do ordain, declare and establish the following con-
stitution, for the government of ourselves and our
posterity."

With regard to the executive power are the fol-
lowing provisions :

The executive power of the United States shall
be vested in a single person. His style shall be
The President of the United States of America,
and his title shall be his Excellency. He shall
be elected by joint ballot by the legislature. He
shall hold his office during the term of seven years,
but shall not be elected a second time.

He shall appoint officers in all cases not other-
wise provided by this constitution.

He shall be commander in chief of the army
and navy of the United States, and of the militia
of the several states." The important limitation
now found in the constitution, confining this au-
thority over the militia to their being in actual ser-
vice, is omitted.

There is no recognition of a vice-president.

With regard to the legislative power there are
the following provisions :

The legislative power shall be vested in a con-
gress, to consist of two separate and distinct bo-
dies of men, a house of representatives and a se-
nate.

All bills for raising or appropriating money, and

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 33

for fixing the salaries of the officers of government,
shall originate in the house of representatives and
shall not be altered or amended by the senate.
No money shall be drawn from the treasury, but
in pursuance of appropriations that shall originate
in the house of representatives.

No tax or duty shall be laid by the legislature
on articles exported from any state, nor on the mi-
gration or importation of such persons as the seve-
ral states shall think proper to admit, nor shall
such migration or importation be prohibited.

The legislature of the United States shall have
authority to establish such uniform qualifications
of the members of each house, with regard to pro-
perty, as to the said legislature shall seem expe-
dient. The members of each house shall be ine-
ligible and incapable of holding any civil office un-
der the authority of the United States, during the
time for which they shall respectively be elected,
and the members of the senate shall be ineligible
to, and incapable of holding any such office for
one year afterwards.

The members of each house shall receive com-
pensation for their services, to be ascertained and
paid by the state in which they shall be chosen.

Of the senate it is declared,

The senate of the United States shall have
power to make treaties, and to appoint ambassa-
dors, and judges of the supreme court.

VOL. II. 5

34 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The senate shall choose its own president, and
other officers.

Authority is also given to the senate to consti-
tute a special court, composed of commissioners,
to decide conclusively on all controversies between
states as to jurisdiction or territory, and all contro-
versies concerning lands claimed under different
grants of two or more states.

The judicial power is extended to all other
" controversies between two or more states," and
" to the trial of impeachment of officers of United
States."

The election of a treasurer of the United States
is given to the two houses, and is to be made by
joint ballot.

The second printed edition of the constitution
conforms more nearly to its ultimate provisions.
The changes, which had been ordered, are incorpo-
rated, and the arrangement and collocation of sub-
jects are methodized and put into more appropriate
form.

In addition to some amendments of detail and
of provisions, which had probably escaped attention
at an earlier review, care is evidently bestowed on
the phraseology, and effort made to correct as far
as might be the ambiguity of expression.

For instance, this reprint contains the following
enactments : " The president shall at stated times
receive a fixed compensation for his services, which
shall neither be increased nor diminished during
the period for which he shall have been elected."

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 35

The strict grammatical construction prohibits
any alteration in his duties and not his emolu-
ments. It was on motion so altered as to read in
conformity to the meaning of the draughtsman.
The president shall at stated times receive for his
services a compensation, which shall neither be in-
creased nor diminished.

Again, the clause printed as follows : " The mi-
gration or importation of such persons as the seve-
ral states now existing shall think proper to admit,
&c." is amended to read, " such persons as any of
the states, &c."

Other verbal alterations, the import of which
would be apparent only to an exact and critical
eye, were made with a freedom, which shows the
solicitude of the convention to present in a shape
the most unexceptionable, as well the great princi-
ples they established as the language in which
they should be secured.

The desire of the convention to arrive at such a
result, as notwithstanding the intrinsic difficulties
of the task should receive the support of all its
members, was manifested as well by the closeness
of their application* as by the frequent modification
of the articles, which from time to time was per-
mitted.

* On the 18th August the convention resolved to meet punc-
tually at 10 o'clock every morning, Sundays excepted, and sit
till 4 o'clock P. M., at which time the president should adjourn
the convention, and that no motion for adjournment be allowed.

36 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

MR. GERRY TO GENERAL WARREN.

Philadelphia, Aug. 13, 1787.

My Dear Sir,

It is out of my power in return for the informa-
tion you have given me to inform you of our pro-
ceedings in convention, but I think they will be
complete in a month or six weeks, perhaps sooner.
Whenever they shall be matured I sincerely hope
they will be such as you and I can approve, and
then they will not be engrafted with principles
of mutability, corruption or despotism, principles
which some, you and I know, would not dislike to
find in our national constitution. I wish you had
accepted a seat in congress, for the next year will
be important.

Adieu my dear sir. — Make my respects, &c.

Your sincere friend,

E. Gerry.

Hon. J. Warren.

On the 17th September 1787, this celebrated
assembly announced to the country the result of
its deliberations. Thirty-eight members sub-
scribed the plan proposed. Sixteen signatures are
wanting. Among the latter in addition to the
subject of this memoir, was governour Randolph
and Mr. Mason of Virginia, Mr. Lansing and chief

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 37

justice Yeates of New- York, and Mr. Martin of
Maryland. Mr. Strong* of Massachusetts obtained
leave of absence before the final question was ta-
ken, so that the instrument bears the names of
only two members from that state.

It is somewhat remarkable that while governour
Randolph supplied the original materials out of
which the constitution was elaborated, they suffer-
ed such changes in their passage through the or-
deal of the convention that he thought proper to
withhold his consent to the plan, which they even-
tually assumed.

* Afterwards governour of the commonwealth.

38 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER II.

Objects to the co7istitutio7i His letter to the legislature of

Massachusetts Objections considered Parties on the merits

of the constitution Judge Dana proposes to annihilate Rhode

Island Massachusetts convention to consider the constitution

of the United States Proceedings in convention His letter

to the president Governour Hancock Constitution adopted.

The period, which has elapsed since the conven-
tion at Philadelphia terminated its session has al-
lowed ample opportunity for ascertaining the com-
petency of the constitution, which the wisdom of
that assembly presented to the American people,
for the great purposes it was intended to accom-
plish. Under the government, which from that
time was established, the United States as a na-
tion have acquired rank, wealth and power, which
the eye of patriotism in the widest range of its
prophetic vision could never have foreseen. The
strength of the government for all purposes of na-
tional protection, and its inaptitude to any exertion
adverse to the most perfect political liberty dem-
onstrate the exact balance of those combined and
contrarient principles, which render it formidable
where power is to be exercised for general good,
and harmless where an undue exertion of autho-
rity would endanger the personal security of the
citizen.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 39

How much the prosperity of the country is at-
tributable to the constitution of its government,
how much has resulted from geographical position,
what share has its cause in the intelligence, virtue
and enterprise of the people, and how much has
resulted from the prudence and ability of the suc-
cessive administrations of its affairs, cannot now
with any exactness be ascertained. The road on
which we have travelled, though not without im-
pediments and danger, has conducted us as we
know to an elevated and commanding station ;
what might have been the termination of another
path is shut out from all human observation. En-
joying the great national blessings with which Pro-
vidence has indulged us, we are forbidden to sup-
pose that any other than the course we have taken
could have been equally prosperous.

Under the operation of the constitution the
country has been eminently happy ; and success
so far as it has been procured by the instrumen-
tality of the form of government, may be justly
claimed by the .advocates of that form as proof
of their forecast and political skill. It is however
to be considered that the constitution reported by
the convention, although accepted and ratified by
the people, has never been, or for a single year on-
ly, the actual frame of government for the nation.
Amendments of a character if not essentially to
change its original features, yet calculated to sof-
ten and remould them, were proposed at the first

40 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

session of the first congress in New-York, and by
the assent of the people became very soon a part
of the fundamental law of the country. Between
the advocates in the convention for one form or
another the question is yet open to discussion whe-
ther the existing constitution with all its early
amendments is conformable to the principles urg-
ed by those, who gave it originally their assent,
or restores it to the plan of those, who were induc-
ed to withhold from it at first the sanction of their
names.

Mr. Gerry, as has been already remarked, was
one of a minority in the convention who disapprov-
ed some of the principles, which the constitution
finally assumed, and having arrived at the conclu-
sion in his own mind that it did not comport with
the well being of the country, with regret indeed
but without hesitation he refused it the sanction
of his name.

This act of refusal, even admitting the validity
of the objections, which existed in his own mind,
has been charged upon him as impolitic, injudicious
and unwise. He had laboured, it was said, with
an industry and perseverance in the details of the
scheme, which demonstrated a belief in the neces-
sity of some essential change in the existing order of
things; it must have been manifest that such
change could only be the result of compromise and
concession, and no practical statesman would be-
lieve that, when such were the means of operation,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 41

all his own favourite objects would be preserved.
The difficulties, too, experienced by him, during
four months of close application to this arduous la-
bour, must have satisfied any man that a new con-
vention would meet only to encounter new diffi-
culties, and that the results, in their present form,
if not the most desirable, were in fact the only
ones, which could ever be obtained. To a states-
man, it was apparent that the alternative was not
between this constitution and a better, but be-
tween this and none.

The objections thus urged did not pass without
due consideration, but they seemed to him to put
policy in opposition to principle, and in such case
the habit of his life left him in no doubt on which
side to take his stand. The question was indeed
momentous. To recommend to others what the
party himself did not approve ; to become responsi-
ble for consequences, the dangers of which were as
firmly believed as if they were visible ; to place
the confiding and industrious people of a great na-
tion under a power, which might crush them by its
weight, or embark them on the stormy ocean of
politics, in a vessel too frail to encounter the perils
of the voyage, was a course of too doubtful integ-
rity to be easily adopted. It was that indeed
which many honourable members of the convention
were willing to take, for reasons unquestionably
satisfactory to themselves, but in the mind of the
delegate from Massachusetts, compromise had its

VOL. ii. 6

42 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

limits, and concession its legitimate bounds ; be-
yond these his ideas of duty forbade him to pass,
and poising himself on his own character, he as-
sumed the responsibility of acting on the principles,
which his judgment approved.

In communicating to his constituents, the legis-
lature of Massachusetts, the constitution adopted
by the convention at Philadelphia, Mr. Gerry an-
nounces his own dissent, and maintains his opin-
ions in the following letter.

MR. GERRY TO THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF RE-
PRESENTATIVES OF MASSACHUSETTS.

New- York, Oct. 18, 1787.

Gentlemen,

I have the honour to enclose, pursuant to my
commission, the constitution proposed by the fede-
ral convention. To this system I gave my dissent,
and shall submit my objections to the honourable
legislature. It was painful for me, on a subject of
such national importance, to differ from the re-
spectable members who signed the constitution.
But conceiving as 1 did that the liberties of Ame-
rica were not secured by the system, it was my
duty to oppose it.

My principal objections to the plan are, that
there is no adequate provision for a representation
of the people ; that they have no security for the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 43

right of election ; that some of the powers of the
legislature are ambiguous, and others indefinite and
dangerous ; that the executive is blended with
and will have an undue influence over the legisla-
ture ; that the judicial department will be op-
pressive ; that treaties of the highest import-
ance may be formed by the president, with the
advice of two-thirds of a quorum of the senate, and
that the system is without the security of a bill of
rights. These are objections, which are not local,
but apply equally to all the states. As the conven-
tion was called for " the sole and express purpose
of revising the articles of confederation, and report-
ing to congress and the several legislatures, such
alterations and provisions as shall render the fede-
ral constitution adequate to the exigencies of gov-
ernment and the preservation of the union." I
did not conceive that these powers extended to the
formation of the plan proposed, but the convention
being of a different opinion, I acquiesced in it,
being fully convinced, that to preserve the union,
an efficient government was indispensably neces-
sary, and that it would be difficult to make proper
amendments to the articles of confederation. The
constitution proposed has few, if any federal fea-
tures, but is rather a system of national govern-
ment ; nevertheless, in many respects, I think it
has great merit, and by proper amendments may
be adapted to the " exigencies of government and
preservation of liberty." The question on this

44 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

plan involves others of the highest importance :
First, Whether there shall be a dissolution of the
federal government. Secondly, Whether the seve-
ral state governments shall be so altered, as in ef-
fect to be dissolved. Thirdly, Whether, in lieu of
the federal and state governments, the national
constitution now proposed shall be substituted with-
out amendment. Never perhaps were a people
called upon to decide a question of greater magni-
tude. Should the citizens of America adopt the
plan as it now stands, their liberties may be lost ;
or should they reject it altogether, anarchy may
ensue. It is evident therefore that they should
not be precipitate in their decisions ; that the sub-
ject should be well understood, lest they should re-
fuse to support the government, after having hastily
accepted it. if those who are in favour of the con-
stitution, as well as those who are against it, should
preserve moderation, their discussions may afford
much information, and finally direct to a happy
issue. It may be urged by some, that an implicit
confidence should be placed in the convention ; but
however respectable the members may be who
signed the constitution, it must be admitted that a
free people are the proper guardians of their rights
and liberties ; that the greatest men may err, and
that their errors are sometimes of the greatest mag-
nitude. Others may suppose that the constitution
may be safely adopted, because therein provision
is made to amend it. But cannot this object be

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 45

better attained before a ratification than after it ?
And should a free people adopt a form of govern-
ment under conviction that it wants amendment ?
Some may conceive that, if the plan is not ac-
cepted by the people, they will not unite in ano-
ther : but surely while they have the power to
amend, they are not under the necessity of reject-
ing it. I have been detained here longer than I
expected, but shall leave this in a day or two for
Massachusetts, and on my arrival shall submit the
reasons (if required by the legislature) on which
my objections are grounded.

I shall only add, that as the welfare of the union
requires a better constitution than the confedera-
tion, 1 shall think it my duty, as a citizen of Mas-
sachusetts, to support that, which shall be finally
adopted, sincerely hoping it will secure the liberty
and happiness of America. I have the honour to
be, gentlemen, with the highest respect for the
honourable legislature and yourselves, your most
obedient and very humble servant,

E. Gerry.

To the Hon. Samuel Adams, Esq. President of the Senate,
and the Hon. James Warren, Esq. Speaker of the House of
Representatives of Massachusetts.

This official letter sets forth the most prominent
objections which, at the period of the promulgation
of the constitution, that instrument had to encoun-

46 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ter. But it is obviously not written in the spirit
of a partizan. Popular topics, calculated to excite
the passions of the people, and elsewhere used with
adroitness, ad captandum vulgus, are not enume-
rated ; the advantages of the new system are too
freely admitted for the purposes of an irreconcilable
hostility ; and the intention of supporting it, if le-
gally ratified, is the submission of a good citizen to
the authority of the laws, and not the evidence of
that spirit of rebellion, which would retaliate its
own disappointment by indiscriminate confusion.

It may be proper to review the objections, which
were thus contemporaneously made to the consti-
tution of the United States by the subject of this
memoir, and ascertain, if possible, how far they
have received any countenance from time.

Of the truth of the first assertion, no one, it
would seem, could now honestly entertain a doubt.
The passions, which in that period of controversy
obscured the judgment of the community, have
been tranquillized, and no longer obscure that
proud principle of independence, which adheres,
against all the allurements of popular favour, to the
performance of duty.

The convention had deliberated under the strict-
est injunctions of secrecy. Its arguments, opinions
or motives could be known only by their results. It
enumerated among its members men of the most
distinguished talents, the most exalted virtue, and
the most extensive influence. The name of its

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 47

president was a tower of strength. What a con-
vention, thus constituted, proposed to the people,
could not want support ; what they on their great
responsibility recommended, had already the ad-
vantage of anticipated success ; and the individual,
who in a conclave of such men dared trust his
own judgment, and risk his character and fame in
opposition to their influence, ventured on a perilous
duty, which nothing but conscious integrity would
attempt, and the most fearless independence enable
him to perform.

The objection, which is first presented alleges
that there is no adequate security for a representa-
tion by the people.

The security, so far as one is provided, is con-
tained in the second section of Art. 1, which estab-
lishes a definite representation in the house of
representatives, until an enumeration of the inhabi-
tants of the United States, a representation at all
times of one from each state, and a subsequent repre-
sentation, according to a ratio, which is to be de-
termined by congress. There is, therefore, de
faclo, no security except the pleasure of congress,
for any representation after the first census, except
for one representative for each state ; and as the
pleasure of congress could be declared only by the
concurrent vote of the two branches, in one of
which the states were equally represented, and
might desire to preserve that equality in the other,
or their equal weight in the union, by a diminished

48 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

number of representatives in the house, the objec-
tion is theoretically at least made out, and re-
solves itself into another form of expression, for
guarding the relative rights of the states.

The danger here gravely apprehended, strikes
us now as exceedingly fanciful ; but, in the ex-
cited state of mind, which that perplexing sub-
ject, the relative importance of the great and small
states in the confederacy, occasioned, was naturally
enough to be expected.

The constitution had fixed the minimum of re-
presentation. It indicated without requiring an
increase. Was not that indication a sufficient se-
curity ? Would congress, having the right, dare
to make the ratio for a second representative so
high, as virtually to exclude any state from the
privilege of an increased representation ? or would
the senate venture, against the will of the popular
branch, to insist on such an anomaly. In the pub-
lic sentiment and the ultimate power of the people,
was to be found the security sought for. In every
form of civil government is somewhere an ulti-
mate power, which is liable to be abused ; to guard
against the tendency to abuse is the part of wis-
dom ; to prevent its possibility is eminently hope-
less.

The intention of the constitution to secure a gra-
dually increasing representation of the people in
the house of representatives, within such limits as
would not embarrass the despatch of business, is

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 49

indicated by its successive provisions : that each state
shall always have one delegate ; that an enumeration
of the people shall take place within three years,
and afterwards every ten years ; and that, until the
first enumeration, there shall be sixty-five repre-
sentatives. The security for conforming to this
intention would not be more adequate, if its pro-
visions were more precise. The security for the
observance of any provision of the constitution, can-
not be found in the constitution itself. It is derived
from the virtue of the people, and the fidelity of
their agents. The constitution is a chart only, by
which the vessel should be steered ; whether she
keeps her course, mainly depends on the officer at
the helm.

The objection, considered in reference to the
sentiments and feelings of the time, is entitled to
much greater respect than if tried by the standard
of present opinion. The first amendment proposed
by the congress of the United States was intended
to obviate its force, and was ratified by a majority
of the states, but the constitutional number of nine
did not assent to it, whereby it failed to become
part of the frame of government. The want of a
more definite arrangement in this particular, has as
yet produced no practical evil. Other difficulties
have occurred under the article in question, but
the apprehension has probably subsided, which
classed too small a house of representatives among
the practical evils of the American government.

VOL. II. 7

50 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Indeed, if the theory of the early statesmen be
true, that power every where has a principle of
expansion, a vitality that keeps it constantly grow-
ing and extending itself, the result may as well be
found in the house of representatives, as in any
other depository of this vigorous germ. It is not
easy to see why such an assembly may not extend,
or endeavour to extend its authority, as well as an
individual, in whom by the theory such inclination
is a necessary incident to the possession of power.
A tendency of this sort has occasionally been im-
puted to individual members. The first president
of the United States interposed his authority in a
case of some delicacy, against the pretensions of
the whole house. Its weight and influence, as a
department of the government, has been regularly
increasing from the first operation of the constitu-
tion, and the most distant of the evils, which
threaten the American people, is want of power or
indisposition to exercise it, on the part of their im-
mediate representatives.

The objection that there is no security for the
right of election, refers to the 4 th section of 1st
article, by which the manner of holding elections
for senators and representatives is vested in the
state legislatures, with a power in congress at any
time to make or alter such regulations, except as
to the places of choosing senators.

The fair exercise of this power by congress
could never be objectionable ; by their abusing it

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 51

the electors might be put to extreme inconvenience,
and the right rendered of no value. This extraor-
dinary power over the legislation of the states,
formed every where a formidable argument with
the opposition ; but it has not, in practice, been
the cause of any complaint.

Again it is objected, that the executive is blend-
ed with and will have an undue influence over the
legislature.

The first branch of the objection is in point of
fact true ; but the argument so profoundly main-
tained in the writings of the Federalist, has de-
fended the provision of the constitution in this re-
spect from even theoretical impropriety. The
prophecy of the other part has not been fulfilled.
On the other hand, the democratic principles of
the constitution, which pervade and animate the
whole system, but are chiefly placed in the popu-
lar branch of the legislative department, have con-
stantly and steadily advanced in strength and im-
portance. If there be danger in disturbing the
exact balances, which the constitution has adjusted,
it will come from the opposite quarter to that, which
was predicted by its early opponents.

The power and the will of the people are irre-
sistible agents in whatever government they are
admitted as elements of its composition, and not
only exert their functions in that branch which is the
place of their appropriate activity, but extend their
influence into all the collateral departments, as we

52 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

find in a garrison town, the air of military life dis-
playing somewhat of its character in the manners
of the peaceful citizen ; or in Catholic countries,
the peculiarities of the predominant faith control-
ling the customs and habits of those even who are
not within the pale of the church.

In a government like that prescribed by the con-
vention, establishing the grand democratic axioms
that the people are the source of authority, and
their happiness its sole object, the checks and re-
straints on the popular will, which were imposed to
produce strength, stability and decision, would be
found wonderfully well contrived, if they were able
to promote for any length of time these salutary
objects ; the apprehension of their counteracting
the great design of the government was as lit-
tle to be justified by theory as it has been un-
founded in experience. If the hereditary power
of the British crown, with a permanent and
powerful aristocracy, has not been able at all times
to maintain itself against even a partial represent-
ation of the people, the alarm surely was needless
that any station provided in the American consti-
tution could withstand, much less corrupt and con-
trol, the representatives of the people or the states.

That the judicial department will be oppressive
was a much more plausible objection, which may
yet be, if it has not been unfortunately realized.
This was a new power in the confederacy. It is
of necessity intrusted to a very small number of

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 53

men rendered independent of the popular will by
the tenor of office, and appointed to their high
stations not by means of that connexion, which
creates a sympathy with their fellow citizens, but
because of their professional distinction under a
good administration, or their political zeal and
party attachment under a bad one ; a course of
life, which in the one case renders them in some
degree unacquainted with the state of the public
mind, or in the other prepares them to disregard it.
In the report of the convention too it is to be re-
membered that the judicial power of the United
States extended to cases, in which a state itself
might be a defendant, whereby the whole doctrine
of a confederacy of sovereign states was annihilat-
ed and an association of political corporations sub-
stituted in its place.

The latter authority has been limited by an ar-
ticle of amendment ; and the high and honourable
character of the judicial department has done much
to preserve the confidence of the people ; but cases
have arisen alarmingly confirming the fears of the
opponents of the constitution, and others cannot
but follow, in which great sections of the country
may not think the objection was unreasonable.

Iucleed when it found that in the exercise of le-
gitimate authority a majority of seven or ten men
may set aside the statutes of congress, or of any
of the states, which have passed all the forms of
their respective constitutions, because in the opin-

54 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ion of this small body they are in violation of the
supreme law of the land, it cannot be doubted that
the cautious republicans of the convention might
well fear that the power would be oppressive.

That other modes of revision in regard to this
necessary power had their several inconveniences
is no answer to the objection urged against this.
The control over the proceedings and decrees of a
state legislature and a state judiciary, which sub-
ject the debateable proposition of constitutionality
to the decision of three or four individuals appoint-
ed by the president of the United States, is in the-
ory a most dangerous state of things, and it may
be well for the public peace if in after time it be
exercised with so much integrity and intelligence,
that it shall not justify the fears entertained by
opponents to the constitution in the convention
of '89.

It is further to be alleged in excuse for the sus-
picions at the commencement of the constitution
in regard to the judicial department, that the
theory of representation, which elsewhere per-
vades the system, is here entirely abandoned. It
was impossible in the nature of things and has not
been attempted. No restriction is laid on the ap-
pointing power, and it would therefore be possible
in the literal exercise of the trust committed to the
president, that with the consent of the senate a
large part of the country should feel that it had no
security on the judicial bench. To those, who
found in the practicability of abuse a reason for

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 55

suspecting it, this might have been sufficient to
justify opposition, but in yielding to it they did not
rely enough on that general public sentiment, which
is the very atmosphere of a republican government,
and is produced by the intelligence and integrity
of the people themselves.

The treaty making power is confessedly one of
the strong points of the constitution, which the
jealous republicans of the day may be excused for
considering with alarm. Its operation has excited
much angry feeling and arrayed the citizens in
ranks of party as violent as those of battle, but
there is nevertheless in the very essence of this
government a redeeming principle, which compels
all the functionaries to make their habitual homage
to the public sentiment, or more properly speaking
so to act that the popular sentiment shall support
the correctness of their proceedings when it shall
dispassionately exercise its judgment. It is this,
which supplies the want of a bill of rights and ren-
ders harmless whatever other articles might seem-
ingly tend to entrench on the great charter of
liberty.

If the amendments proposed by congress at its
first session and which now make part of the con-
stitution, were properly adopted, the further objec-
tion, made by Mr. Gerry before its ratification,
was well founded, viz. that the powers of the le-
gislature were ambiguous, indefinite and danger-
ous. These amendments propose and establish

56 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ten distinct and important limitations. If the
powers, which they restrain, would without the
amendments have been enjoyed by congress, the
constitution would properly have authorized the
exercise of authority, which it is plain the people
did not intend ; if otherwise, its language was am-
biguous. If it were doubtful whether the powers
not delegated to the United States nor prohibited
to the states, were reserved to the states respect-
ively, or to the people, the constitution was am-
biguous in an essential provision ; and that it was
doubtful must be admitted from the adoption of
the amendment ; or if there was no doubt in the
case, and the constitution conferred such a national
character on the government of the United States
that it took in virtue of its sovereignty whatever
it was not expressly prohibited from taking, a form
of government was adopted so essentially different
from that now existing, that the advocates of the
present establishment could not consistently ap-
prove it.

The indefiniteness and ambiguity of all written
constitutions and of all political declarations, and
indeed of language in its most perfect form, are
constantly witnessed and lamented. They are
without doubt inseparable from the nature of the
human mind and the limitation of its powers. It
is however the good fortune of the people of
these states that whatever of this common imbe-
cility exists in their constitution has not yet real-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 57

ized the apprehensions of their friends. But even
at this moment its exact meaning is not universal-
ly admitted. Its powers are to be settled by a
construction, which extends or compresses them as
one or another of those rules are applied, which
have advocates in different parts of the country.
Hence it was well observed by an eminent mem-
ber of the convention, on being felicitated on the
appropriate arrangements they had formed, " that
the practicability of the constitution would de-
pend on the construction that should be put on
the powers it conferred."

It is to be remarked that all the objections sug-
gested by Mr. Gerry regarded the tendency of the
constitution to impair the liberties of the people
and the sovereignty of the states, and that it was
on this precise ground that all the opposition it
experienced throughout the United States was
founded. All the amendments, from whatever
quarter proposed, were calculated to restrain this
supposed bias. From those who favoured colonel
Hamilton's propositions it met with no obstacle
or opposition. It is apparent therefore that the
convention had carried the provisions for a strong
government to the utmost extent, which the peo-
ple would bear. In Mr. Gerry's view they were
extended further than was consistent with politi-
cal freedom, and if this question had been sub-
mitted to the people it cannot be doubted that
their answer would by a vast majority have been

VOL. II. 8

58 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

given in the affirmative. But a very different pro-
position was presented. Shall the constitution be
accepted as it is, or must the country still hold to
the floating fragments of the confederation, which
like a stranded ship, was expected every moment
to fall in pieces.

The chance of another convention, or a more
popular government, or of continuing as a united
people, under existing forms, was equally despe-
rate, and the question therefore to be decided by
the freemen of the United States was in fact not
whether they approved the plan offered them by
the convention, but whether such a government as
it provided was not preferable to the anarchy and
confusion which might follow its rejection.

Rejection indeed was not contemplated by Mr.
Gerry. He inclined to accept it conditionally,
and seems to have thought that while the people
had " the power to amend they were not under the
necessity of rejecting it." There is one remark
however, which he submitted to the legislature,
that should have exempted him from the severe
animadversions to which he was subjected, as it
certainly shows that his opposition would be con-
trolled and limited by an intelligent spirit of pa-
triotism.

" As the welfare of the union," he says, " re-
quires a better constitution than the confederation,
I shall think it my duty to support that, which shall

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 59

be finally adopted." This liberality of feeling
distinguished Mr. Gerry's conduct in the whole
business of the convention. From a distinguished
member of that body from South Carolina,* the
following extract of a letter may be introduced as
an offset in some degree for the severe censures
with which he was assailed.

" Your sentiments, my friend, respecting the
effect politics should have in private life entirely
coincide with my own. I felt it a misfortune that
I should be compelled by such judgment as God had
given me to differ so greatly from a man, whose
judgment I so highly venerate, and whose inde-
pendence and integrity I bore witness to during
the whole session. I ardently wished my friend
Gerry to think as I did, that the constitution, with
all its imperfections, is the only thing that can
rescue the states from civil discord and foreign
contempt. Reflecting maturely on the little dispo-
sition of most of the states to submit to any go-
vernment, I preferred giving my consent to a trial
of the constitution with all its imperfections ; that
there are parts I do not like, you well know ; I
ardently wish to draw in public as I ever shall in
private life in unison with a person for whom I
have so great an esteem as for Mr. Gerry, but I
shall not less admire his independent spirit, his
disinterested conduct and his private worth be-

■* Hon. Peirce Butler.

60 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

cause we differ on measures of great public con-

cern."

It is somewhat remarkable that several strong
points of objection to the constitution, which could
not upon any other principle than the unsatisfac-
tory one of a compromise have been acceded to
by Mr. Gerry, and which would certainly in the
eastern states, have been most popular topics of
crimination, find no place in his public letter.
Upon the subject of the ratio of representation in
either branch of the legislature he is wholly silent.
Nothing is urged against the constitution upon the
ground of its admitting the slaves of the southern
states to swell their share of representation, nor
is the insecurity of the state constitutions brought
out very prominently, although in the convention
he had urged this as a reason why the United
States officers should take an oath to support the
constitution of the states, as a provision more ne-
cessary than the one under debate, which provid-
ed for an oath of allegiance by the state-officers
to the constitution of the United States.

It cannot be that these subjects were without
due weight in his mind, but he had probably come
to the conclusion that however it might be desir-
able to modify them, no reasonable expectation
could exist of changing them for others more de-
sirable, and believing that the proposed constitu-
tion had in many respects great merits he was
willing to urge no objection merely with a view

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 61

to victory as a partizan, but to present those only,
which might by proper measures be finally ob-
viated.

In the illustrious names, which were put forward
as advocates and friends of the new system, many
minds found a conclusive evidence in its favour,
which they would not have discovered in the in-
strument itself. The argument ex auctoritate, was
pressed to its utmost limit, when probably those
distinguished individuals were doubtful of its even-
tual success, and for a cause differing essentially
from that of its open assailants, were quite as dis-
trustful of its merits.

That such were the sentiments of colonel Ha-
milton are disclosed not only by his original pro-
position, but by his subsequent conduct. In proof
of this an anecdote has been recorded by Mr. Jef-
ferson, which he sanctions by the solemn declara-
tion " for the truth I attest the God who made
me."

Before the president set out on his southern
tour in April 1791, he addressed a letter of the
14th of that month, from mount Vernon to the
secretary of state, the treasury and of war, desir-
ing that, if any important case should arise during
his absence, they would consult and act on them,
and he requested that the vice-president should
also be consulted. This was the only occasion
on which that officer was ever requested to take
part in a cabinet question. Some occasion of

62 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

consultation arising, I invited those gentlemen
(and the attorney general, as well as I remember)
to dine with me in order to confer on the subject.
After the cloth was removed, and our question
argued and dismissed, conversation began on other
matters, and by some circumstance was led to the
British constitution, on which Mr. Adams observ-
ed " purge that constitution of its corruption, and
give to its popular branch equality of representa-
tion, and it would be the most perfect constitution
devised by the wit of man." Hamilton paused
and said, " purge it of its corruption, and give to
its popular branch equality of representation, and
it would become an impracticable government : as
it stands at present, with all its supposed defects,
it is the most perfect government, which ever ex-
isted."

The same eminent authority thus describes the
feelings of the president of the convention.

" I do believe that general Washington had not
a firm confidence in the durability of our govern-
ment. He was naturally distrustful of men, and
inclined to gloomy apprehensions ; and I was ever
persuaded that a belief that we must at length
end in something like a British constitution had
some weight in his adoption of the ceremonies of
levees, birth days, pompous meetings with con-

* Mr. Jefferson to Dr. Jones, MS. published in the Boston Pa-
triot, 22d July '28.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 63

gress and other forms of the same character, cal-
culated to prepare us gradually for a change, which
he believed possible, and so let it come on with as
little shock as might be, to the public mind. These
are my opinions of general Washington, which I
would vouch at the judgment seat of God, having
been formed on an acquaintance of thirty years."
The opinions or doubts, which are thus unhesi-
tatingly attributed by Mr. Jefferson to the most
eminent of American patriots, have derived coun-
tenance from his address to the people of the
United States, on declining another election.
There is no where in that address any strong ex-
pression of confidence in the permanency of the
constitution. It is not described as the " palla-
dium of liberty," " the impregnable barrier of free-
dom," " the great citadel of free institutions," as
in other places it has been distinguished. On the
contrary, it is mentioned in very cautious terms
as an improvement merely on the past. " You
have improved upon your first essay by the adop-
tion of a constitution of government better calcu-
lated than vour former for an intimate union, and
for the efficacious management of your common
concerns."

The whole tenor of the address proceeds on an
apprehension that the government does not pos-
sess inherently a power of self-preservation, and
that the dangers to which it was exposed might
overturn it. Hence the impressive admonition

64 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

against popular combinations, injudicious altera-
tions, factions, party spirit, and the insidious wiles
of foreign influence. Hence too the props, which
are to support it ; the encouragement of institu-
tions for diffusive education and the cultivation of
public manners, good faith in foreign intercourse
and a spirit that should be neutral, as well as a
political neutrality, during foreign wars ; and
hence too that prophetic apprehension that all
these would not prevent the downward path of
the republic.

" In offering you, my countrymen," is his sin-
cere and affectionate language, " these counsels of
an old and affectionate friend, I dare not hope they
will make the strong and lasting impression I could
wish, that they will control the usual current of
the passions, or prevent our nation from running
the course, which has marked the destiny of na-
tions."

What course and what destiny ? The course
which has led from liberty to despotism, the course
of anarchy, revolution and civil war. The destiny
that subjected Rome to the Caesars, and every
where but in this new world had exiled all princi-
ples of public liberty.

It is not from this to be inferred, that these
statesmen had an abstract preference for monar-
chical or even strong government. Not at all.
The just deduction is that they considered a popu-
lar government as an experiment, as a hazardous

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 65

and unpromising experiment, and to be made suc-
cessful only by the strength of the infusion of those
higher principles which it contained.

The report of the convention was no sooner
known to the people than it divided them into two
opposite and irritable factions. Before the com-
plicated provisions of this new government could
be explained, and certainly before the reasons could
be understood, by which they were opposed or de-
fended, it was manifest that it had its friends and
its enemies, who were assuming towards each
other the temper and manners of organized and
hostile parties.

Its adoption depended on its being ratified by
nine states, and the voice of each state was to be
expressed by a convention elected by the citizens
of the state expressly and solely for that purpose.
To influence public opinion, and to obtain a major
vote in these state conventions, was the great ob-
ject of rivalry.

It cannot be doubted that, for some time after its
promulgation, the constitution had for its opponents a
great majority of the people of the United States.
The novelty of its provisions, the change they
made in relation of the states, and the uncertain-
ty always attending any new operations, in which
wealth and numbers are concerned, were sufficient
of themselves to array against it a formidable
force ; but this force was, in almost every section
of the country, led on by men the most known and

VOL. II. 9

66 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

distinguished in the past history of the nation ; by
men in whose intelligence, integrity and patriotism,
implicit confidence had been reposed in the days
of revolution and war. Comparatively a new set
of men were the fathers of the constitution, who
had yet to acquire that glory, upon which its oppo-
nents were already permitted to recline.

Enthusiasm proportioned to the interests de-
pending, and ardent as the character of those who
took the lead on the great question before the peo-
ple, excited the advocates of the constitution to
immense efforts to secure the ratification they de-
sired, while its opponents, though not wanting in
their duty as watchmen of the public rights, seem
to have contented themselves with such exertion as
their public station required. The press indeed
displayed the conflicting opinions of the parties in
every possible form, while earnestness and perse-
verance seemed to indicate a consciousness that
effort would secure the prize. Something of the
boldness of the prevailing temper may be learned
from judge Dana's letter to Mr. Gerry, dated at
Newport, Rhode Island, where he was temporarily
residing for the benefit of his health, and dated
only a few days before the convention separated.

" This state (Rhode Island) will not choose dele-
gates to the convention, nor order on their delegates
to congress. I hope they will not, as their neglect
will give grounds to strike it out of the union, and
divide its territory between their neighbours. Thus,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 67

extend Connecticut down to the Narraganset
shore, and running up north through Pawtuxet
river to our south line, so as to leave Providence,
Newport, and all the islands, to Massachusetts,
which, as it would give the commercial part of the
state to Massachusetts, would best accord with the
spirit and genius of our people, while the residue
would perfectly coincide with that of Connecticut.
According to my best observation, such a division
of this state would meet the best approbation of
the commercial part of it, though they are afraid
to take any open measures in the present state of
things, to bring it about. Their interest must dic-
tate such a measure ; they never can be secure
under the present form of government, but will al-
ways labour under the greatest mischief any people
can suffer, that of being ruled by the most ignorant
and unprincipled of their fellow citizens. This
state is too insignificant to have a place on an equal
footing with any of the others in the Union, unless it
be Delaware. Therefore a bold politician would
seize upon the occasion their abominable antifede-
ral conduct presents, for annihilating them as a
separate member of the union."

This must have seemed strange language to the
advocates of state rights.

In the discussions and debate upon the ratifica-
tion of the constitution, its friends had a manifest
advantage, independent of the merits of the instru-
ment, in the state of the question before the people.

68 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

They had to justify and maintain an examina-
ble, defined, written law, of whose evils and ineffi-
cacy nothing could be known, but in the way of
conjecture or alarm. The confederation had almost
expired by its own weakness, and no other had
been prepared to take its place, but the one they
were urging the people to accept. Between that
and the uncertain, undefined and conjectural ar-
rangement, which either in a better or a worse
form, might hereafter be proposed, if indeed the
anarchy, into which the whole community was re-
solving itself, would allow any other to be pro-
posed, the choice could not be doubtful. It was
not necessary for them to defend the new consti-
tution as a perfect, or even an unobjectionable
form of government ; their case was made out, if
the people could be satisfied that the new govern-
ment was better than none, and that whatever
amendments it required might be safely trusted to
the operation of time.

The report of the convention having been laid
before congress, it was by that body, on 28th
September 17(57, " Resolved, that it be transmitted
to the several legislatures, in order to be submitted
to a convention of delegates, chosen in each state
by the people thereof, in conformity to the resolves
of the convention, made and provided in that case."

In obedience to this resolve, delegates on the
part of Massachusetts met in convention at Boston,
on the ninth day of January 1788. Mr. Gerry,

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY. 69

who had a short time previous to the election re-
moved from his native town of Marblehead, and
established his residence in the village of Cam-
bridge, the seat of Harvard University, was not re-
turned a member of the convention, either because
his recent inhabitancy did not make him eligible,
or more probably because his opinions, in regard
to the constitution, were not in conformity to those
of his new neighbours.

The convention of Massachusetts consisted of
three hundred and sixty members, among whom
were many of the most distinguished and honoura-
ble citizens of the state. It was understood at the
commencement of the session, from the opinions
expressed by the members, or the known senti-
ment in the towns from which they were dele-
gates, that a majority were opposed to a rati-
fication, but it was soon discovered that, what-
ever might be the force of numbers, that of talents,
ability and power in debate, was most triumphantly
with the advocates of the new constitution. A
host of talented young men, destined at a future
day to lead in the legislation or jurisprudence of
the state, had seats in this assembly, and brought
to the interesting discussion of great political ques-
tions those rare intellectual endowments by which
the state, in all its departments, has since most
eminently profited. Professional men were mostly
in favour of the new government ; educated men
and men of property, with many exceptions indeed,

70 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

favoured its adoption ; and in the collisions and
conflict of opinion, the plain, unlettered common
sense of its opponents were no match for the prac-
tised eloquence, the logic, and the learning of its
friends.

Governour Hancock, who was supposed unfriend-
ly to the constitution, was chosen president of the
convention, but ill health detained him from its
meetings, .by means of which all the influence of
the acting president, judge William Cushing, was
in possession of its advocates. Mr. Samuel Adams
was in a good measure neutral. To supply the
defect arising from want of political experience
and character, the majority invited Mr. Gerry to
take a seat in the convention, for the purpose of
giving such information as should from time to
time be required of him. As each of his colleagues
in the convention of Philadelphia was a member
of that of Massachusetts, the invitation had the
invidious character of a compliment to Mr. Gerry,
and a reflection upon their integrity or judgment.
In the mean time, no management was omitted
by the other side to secure in numbers the su-
periority they possessed in talent. The efforts
within doors were seconded by every possible exer-
tion abroad.

The newspapers teemed with essays in every
variety of form, and what argument was unable to
effect, satire, lampoon and scurrility were exhaust-
ed to accomplish. Some arts were resorted to,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 71

which were supposed to be justified by the great-
ness of the object. Personal addresses, not un-
mixed with threats, were made to some of the
members, and a marked distinction in private in-
tercourse was observed towards the " irreclaim-
able malignants," and those who might be per-
suaded to change their opinions. A report was
soon circulated, that the constitution would be
adopted ; and as a consequence a vessel was put
on the stocks at one of the northern ship yards,
that it might appear that the very first prospect
of a new government would encourage ship
building, commerce, and consequently agricul-
ture, while in truth the money necessary for
the purpose was obtained by voluntary assess-
ment, rather to secure the constitution, than to
make a voyage.

Encouraged by the change of some few in the
assembly, it was thought politic to get rid of Mr.
Gerry, whose known opinion and high personal
character gave a confidence to the opponents of
the constitution, which it would be difficult to de-
stroy.

The awkwardness of his situation rendered this
no troublesome task. To make the matter more
sure, and more aggravating, the giving of the blow
was assigned to a friend, long and intimately asso-
ciated with him in the trying scenes of national
embarrassment.

In withdrawing from the convention, Mr. Gerry

72 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

addressed a letter to the presiding officer, the fol-
lowing extracts from which sufficiently explain
the cause.

EXTRACT FROM MR. GERRY'S LETTER TO VICE-
PRESIDENT CUSHING.

After having on Saturday morning stated an an-
swer to the question proposed the preceding eve-
ning, I perceived that your honourable body were
considering a paragraph, which respected an equal
representation of the states in the Senate, and
one of my honourable colleagues observed that this
was agreed to by a committee consisting of a
member from each state, and that I was one of
the number. This was a partial narrative of facts
which I conceived, placed my conduct in an unfa-
vourable point of light, probably without any such
intention on the part of my colleague.

I was thus reduced to the disagreeable alterna-
tive of addressing a letter to your honour, for cor-
recting this error, or of sustaining the injuries re-
sulting from its unfavourable impression, not in
the least suspecting that when I had committed
myself to the convention, without the right of
speaking in my own defence, any gentleman would
take an undue advantage, from being a member of
the house, to continue the misrepresentation by
suppressing every attempt on my part to state the
facts. I accordingly informed your honour that I

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 73

was preparing a letter, to throw light on the sub-
ject, and at my request, you was so obliging as to
make this communication to the house. My sole
object was to state the matter as it respected my
conduct ; but T soon perceived that it was misun-
derstood by the Hon. Judge Dana, who rose with
an appearance of party virulence that I did not
expect, and followed one misrepresentation with
another, by impressing the house with the idea
that I was entering upon their debates. I request-
ed leave repeatedly, to explain the matter, but he
became more vehement, and I was subjected to
strictures from several parts of the house until it
adjourned, without even being permitted to declare
that I disdained such an intention, and did not
merit such unworthy treatment."

The discussions in convention still proceeded ;
the learning of the law, the sacredness of the
pulpit, and the worldly wisdom of the mercantile
profession were successively put in requisition, and
delighted, and instructed, and overwhelmed an ad-
miring multitude ; but the leaders of the consti-
tution party were afraid to trust the question to a
final vote.

There yet remained a stern mass of opposition,
which although argued down and silenced in a
great degree, was not disheartened nor converted.

A new measure was devised, on the success of
which great confidence was reposed. The gov-
ernour had held his own opinions in reserve; both

VOL. II. 10

74 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

parties chose to claim his vote. In this doubtful
state of things, each was anxious to secure his in-
fluence, while they, who were not his friends, at-
tributed his absence not so much to disease, which
was the assigned cause, as to a desire of knowing
which side should be taken for popularity.

Although the leading advocates of the constitu-
tion were not the personal friends of his excel-
lency, some, over whom they exercised great in-
fluence, were supposed to be much in his confi-
dence ; and if by their means he could be brought
to give his name to the constitution, it was thought
that there would no longer be any doubt of the
result.

A select few of the advocates for the constitu-
tion waited upon the governour in his sick cham-
ber ; they congratulated him that upon his vote,
and those it would draw with it, depended the
greatest question, which could ever agitate the
country. They represented to him the glory he
would acquire in the adopting of so momentous a
matter by his own personal exertion, and the po-
pularity to be gained, by accomplishing this object
in a manner that must be universally acceptable.

The desire of securing a better form of govern-
ment than the existing confederation, was known
to him extensively to prevail, and while the be-
nefits of the proposed constitution rendered it in
many respects desirable, the objections, which had
been made to it, had been fully and anxiously

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 75

considered. They were disposed to take that
middle course, which consulting and uniting the
judgment of the most able and upright men on
both sides, could not fail to meet general approba-
tion. With this view, they had prepared a series
of amendments, which had been the result of most
anxious deliberation. These could not indeed be
incorporated into the constitution by the vote of a
state, but they could accompany the ratification as
the wish and expectation of this important member
of the confederacy, and be by that measure finally
secured. They tendered to his excellency the
honour of proposing them in convention. The
reputation of having devised this middle course,
the credit of announcing it, the imperishable glory
of its success, they had deemed it respectful to
offer to him, that to the fame of having given his
official sanction to the declaration of his country's
independence, might be added that of securing for
it a permanent constitution of government.

The charm was irresistible. Wrapped in his
flannels, Hancock in a day or two took the chair
of the convention, and a scene ensued more in the
character of a dramatic representation, than of
that serious and important business, which was the
occasion of the assembly.

In a speech, wise and plausible enough in it-
self, but sufficiently ludicrous to those behind the
scenes, the governour and president announced
the anxiety of his mind, his doubts, his wishes, his

76 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

conciliatory plan, his recommendation to adopt the
constitution without qualification, and to propose
for future amendment such alterations as respect
for the opinions of the dissatisfied, or a careful re-
gard for public liberty rendered prudent and advis-
able.

The accession of such a man as Hancock, to
the party of the advocates for accepting the con-
stitution, was not without great effect. His high
character and consideration in the community, the
reserve, which circumstances had seemed to im-
pose upon him, the calmness with which he came
into the assembly, the effort, which in defiance of
disease, he again made in the cause of his country,
the moderation of his councils, which appeared to
take a fortunate middle course between the vio-
lence of opposing factions, had a most imposing
effect on the convention, and seemed already to
secure an anticipated triumph. The measure it-
self was discreet and judicious, and the subtlety of
its accomplishment was wholly concealed from
those on whose mind it was intended to operate.
Encouragement now dawned on the advocates of
the constitution, but the favour of the leading op-
positionists was not conciliated, and the final ques-
tion was too important to be submitted to any pos-
sible chance.

It had been the policy of the constitution party
to operate in conversation and at private inter-
views, as well as in open debate on those of the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 77

opposite side, whom by any means of persuasion
it had been thought possible to change. An aged
and reverend gentleman, conspicuous for the firm-
ness of his opposition and the plain sincerity of his
character, was by that tacit understanding, which
regulated the affairs of this assembly, placed under
the surveillance of a distinguished member of the
legal profession. In the course of the session, the
influence of this honest clergyman had greatly
strengthened the confidence of his neighbours and
friends, and the plainness and directness of his ob-
jections, and his terse and comprehensive mode of
expression, disturbed the efforts of more rhetorical,
and perhaps more logical declaimers.

It was the good fortune of the gentleman above
mentioned, to convert him from an opponent into
a favourer of the constitution, so that notwithstand-
ing his previous sentiments, his vote on the ques-
tion of ratification was promised in the affirmative.

But his vote secured was only one point gained,
and the ingenious commander was desirous of turn-
ing the artillery he had captured on the ranks in
which it had formerly been borne. For this pur-
pose, the reverend gentleman was urged to speak
in convention, and give evidence of his new faith.
" I cannot," said he, " obtain the floor ; the young
men are so ardent and quick of motion, that they
almost always precede me." "But I can," was
the reply of the individual who had been instru-
mental in the change of his political creed. " Do

78 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

you rise when the convention opens in the morn-
ing ; I will do the same ; if the president allows
me the floor I will surrender it to you."

On the following day, the good old gentleman
rose to speak. Haifa dozen voices from each side
of the house, addressed the chair at the same mo-
ment; but the presiding officer gave the individual
referred to the privilege of opening the debate.
" Sir," said he, addressing the president, " I have
some remarks to submit to the convention, but I
see a venerable gentleman opposite to me, desi-
rous of speaking, who though differing from me in
some opinions, I am always accustomed to listen
to with profound respect. I beg leave to waive
my right in his favour."

The change in the mind of the reverend prose-
lyte was then first made known to the convention,
and produced in the ranks of his former associates,
an unaffected alarm, insomuch that one of their
number, disregarding the decorum of debate, could
not refrain from a strong exclamation of surprise,
in the language of the Psalmist, " Help Lord, for
the godly man faileth."

The question was at length taken, on a ratifica-
tion of the constitution by the convention of Mas-
sachusetts, and passed in the affirmative, by a ma-
jority of nineteen out of three hundred and fifty-five
members who voted.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 79

CHAPTER III.

Popular feeling in Massachusetts on the adoption of the Constitu-
tion Letter to General Warren The Federal party become

a majority Consequences Mr. Gerry a candidate for Con-
gress Letter to IheElectors Letter to the Governour

To General Warren.

The triumph of the constitution party in Mas-
sachusetts was celebrated with all the pageantry
of conquest. No victory of the revolution was an-
nounced with greater enthusiasm, and on no occa-
sion was the exultation of success more offensively
displayed. The vanquished in battle had been
treated with greater kindness than those in debate.
Instead of the courteous demeanour, which the gal-
lant conqueror of a foreign foe deems it honoura-
ble to assume, there was a display of that super-
cilious superiority, which marks the triumphs of a
servile war. The state of parties, neither in the
convention nor among the people, could have justi-
fied this extravagant rejoicing, had it not been con-
sidered the most effective measure to swell the
actual strength of the majority, and to extend the
influence of Massachusetts into states whose con-
ventions were yet to assemble. Doubtful of the
real state of public opinion, the constitution party
determined to assume its control, and to secure

80 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

by apparent acclamation, what had been carried
with exceeding difficulty through the forms of de-
bate.

The measure was a wise one. Men naturally
love the side of power. The appearance of supe-
rior strength overawes opposition, and gathers to
its standard that vast mass of the community, who
always belong to the party of the strongest. The
constitution was about to become the law of
the land, and the ambitious, who were desirous of
its honours, the interested, who might solicit the
employments it would confer, and the discontented,
whom any change must benefit, added the force of
their numbers and their influence to those intelli-
gent patriots, who were the supporters of its pro-
visions, from a belief of their inherent propriety.

The great exultation at the time, the formation
of political parties with reference to the question
decided, and the superiority, which subsequent
success seems to have stamped on the judgment of
the advocates of the constitution, have transferred
the honour of the event to those whose manage-
ment was in truth successful rather than their cause.

A general sentiment prevailed that a new form
of government was necessary for the existence of
the American republic ; and as general an opinion
that the constitution, as it came from the conven-
tion at Philadelphia, would not answer the purpo-
ses intended. But the real question presented to
the people, was whether the proposed constitution

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 81

should be accepted as it was, with the hope of ob-
taining after it went into operation, such amend-
ments as were desirable, according to the provi-
sion for that purpose contained in the fifth art^le,
or whether the ratification should be delayed until
the amendments were first incorporated.

It is certainly true, that this was a most import-
ant practical difference, and might well excite much
of the controversy, which ensued, but as in all the
leading states amendments were in fact recom-
mended, and the most important of them were as
speedily as practicable incorporated into the con-
stitution according to the forms of law, two infer-
ences are deducible : 1st, That those members of
the convention at Philadelphia who declined sign-
ing the constitution, were sustained in their refu-
sal by a large majority of the immediate representa-
tives of the people : 2ndly, That the amazing suc-
cess of this great experiment on the practicability
of free institutions, is not to be ascribed solely to
the provisions of the constitution, as at first pro-
posed, but to its actual condition after these im-
portant alterations were made in it : and it is not
a little surprising, that notwithstanding the con-
stitution, if it must have remained as it was first
promulgated, would have been rejected by an im-
mense vote,* and that the indispensable necessi-

*An unqualified ratification was given by Delaware, Pennsyl-
vania, New-Jersey, Connecticut, Georgia, Maryland, and after
the new government had gone into operation, by North Carolina.
VOL. II. 1 1 Amend-

82 LIFE OF ELBRTDGE GERRY.

ty of important amendments was admitted in the
state conventions, and that those amendments
were in truth afterwards incorporated, they whose
great object was accomplished by the adoption of
these amendments, should have been considered
and treated as the vanquished party, and that those
who were willing to accept of a government in a
form to which the people would not consent, should
have been considered, and should have consider-
ed themselves as victors on this great political
arena.

The discussions, which were held in the several
conventions, and by the instrumentality of the
press, did not indeed limit the subject of difference
to the point above supposed. The occasion was
one, which enlisted the pride of men, and made
them competitors rather for victory than for truth.
Exaggeration, misrepresentation and mistake, were

Amendments were proposed by the conventions of Massachu-
setts, South Carolina, New-Hampshire, Virginia and New-York.
Rhode Island ratified the constitution in June 1790, proposing
amendments. The ratification of Pennsylvania was made on 12th
December succeeding the convention, and was charged at the
time with being urged with unfair precipitancy. It occasion-
ed some disgraceful riots, and other marks of popular tumult.
This is the only large state, which accepted the constitution with
out limitation. The commentaries and declaration of rights by
other states, which do not form part of the constitution itself
have nevertheless exercised an important influence in the con-
struction of the powers, which that instrument confers, and form
a contemporaneous exposition of its articles, entitled to great
respect.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 83

the natural consequences. Among much profound
learning, in which the science of civil government
was elaborately and thoroughly explained, and
which will serve while men continue free, indelibly
to mark the line between liberty and licentious-
ness, and to define what force is required for the
purposes of government, without danger to personal
freedom, there was mingled whatever could in-
flame the passions and exasperate the feelings of
the community. They who favoured the new
system, concealed or diminished its objectionable
provisions, and defended such as were of doubtful
utility ; the other side, in retaliation, magnified its
supposed evils, and sounded an alarm for public
liberty probably beyond their fears.

The year 1788 was passed by the statesmen of
the United States under all the agitation and ex-
citement, which attends the disunion of great ques-
tions of political interest, and with the anxiety that
awaits the progress of an important and uncertain
event.

JNot satisfied with having accomplished their
purposes in Massachusetts, the majority, as now
they must be termed, seemed to consider it requi-
site for their complete triumph to run down the re-
putation of all, by whom they had been obstructed.

Past political services, and the character of those
revolutionary patriots, which should have been con-
sidered the property of the nation, were of no avail
in the all absorbing interest of the present divi-

84 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE kGERR¥\

sions, and it was apparent that a new party was
to be formed, whose title to the confidence of the
people was to rest on the zeal or ability with
which they had smoothed the way for the adop-
tion of the new constitution.

MR. GERRY TO GENERAL WARREN.

Cambridge, June 28, 1788.

My Dear Sir,

I wish you would so order your arrangements
as to favour us with a part of your time, although
the alarm of our being together might be such as
to station sentries at Charlestown bridge, and the
fortifications for the defence of the federalists in
Boston.

It is diverting to hear the manner in which
these people amuse themselves at our expense.
They suggest that I shall not be able to keep this
place ; and should it be true, I tell them I hope to
find purchasers out of Boston. Others say I am
much affected by political events, and disposed to
grow melancholy, and so long as this is attended
with a mens conscia recti, they may think as they
please ; for melancholy is like madness, which
has a pleasure none but madmen know.

The convention of New-York will, I am well
informed, annex a bill of rights to a conditional

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 85

ratification, which will remove all our objections,
and it is believed Virginia will do the same. Pat-
rick Henry has been brilliant in that convention,

and very severe on who is reprobated

for his duplicity and versatility. 1 know not what
judgment to form with respect to the final event,
but trust in Providence for protection from the
thraldom, which may be apprehended, unless the
new constitution shall be modified and amended.

Do not let be deterred from visiting us,

for fear that she and may be again distin-
guished in Boston by the appellation of the anti-
federal ladies.

Your's in great friendship,

E. Gerry.

Notwithstanding the light and playful spirit of
this letter, Mr. Gerry felt severely the revulsion
of public opinion, and the loss of that bright popu-
larity, the sunshine and full splendour of which
had hitherto shone upon his political path.

In another letter, alluding to the same topic, he
remarks : " The vigilant enemies of free govern-
ment have been long in the execution of their plan
to hunt down all who remain attached to revolution
principles ; they have attacked us in detail and
have deprived you, Mr. S. Adams and myself in a
great measure of that public confidence to which a
faithful attachment to the public interest entitles

SG LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

us, and they are now aiming to throw Mr. Han-
cock out of the saddle, who, with all his foibles,
is jet attached to the whig cause. There seems
to be a disposition in the dominant party to es-
tablish a nobility of opinion, under whose control
in a short time, will be placed the government of
the union and the states, and whose insufferable
arrogance marks out for degradation all who will
not submit to their authority. It is beginning to
be fashionable to consider the opponents of the
constitution as embodying themselves with the
lower classes of the people, and that one forfeits
all title to the respect of a gentleman, unless he is
one of the privileged order. Is this, my friend, to
be the operation of the free government, which all
our labours in the revolution have tended to pro-
duce ?"

The state of affairs at this period was excessive-
ly galling to honourable men, who next to the
conscientious discharge of duty derived their best
reward from the approbation of the people, and
now saw all the high objects of their laudable am-
bition broken at a blow, But such was the angry
temper of the public mind, or rather such the state
to which an interested part of the community was
disposed to excite it, that not only they who had
decidedly opposed the constitution, but those even
who had not been conspicuously zealous in its de-
fence, were exposed to the pitiless pelting of the
storm, and devoted to obloquy and disgrace.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 87

Divided as the people were, on the question of
acceptance, it is no mark of their stability, that
those who were called to pronounce the conscien-
tious decision of their judgment should lose their
favour by placing themselves in opposition ; and
certainly less to the credit of their justice, that
even an error of judgment on this debateable propo-
sition should cancel the debt of gratitude, which
the whole revolution had accumulated. But other
ages show the insecurity of popular favour, and
other periods of our own history are not deficient
in lessons, which teach its unsubstantial and evan-
escent existence.

The boldness of the party, which had not long
before been even a weak minority, in assuming a
control of public feeling, and fearlessly and rash-
ly assailing the long tried and well favoured ser-
vants of the people, whose claim on the affections
of their fellow citizens might have given currency
even to a bad cause, would be much more the sub-
ject of surprise, if its success had not transfixed
our astonishment.

Such however, was the rapid change of public
sentiment that the constitution party, which at the
elections for the convention had, in many places,
not dared to avow themselves, was now a most
imposing and resistless majority, and flushed with
all the pride of unexpected success, were little
disposed to regard the feelings, the services, or the
character of their defeated adversaries. Indeed,

88 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

in the intemperance of the time, the constitution
question superseded almost every where, all other
considerations. The few days of service in the
state convention were esteemed of more impor-
tance than whole campaigns in the field ; and he
who had only his services ' in the cabinet of the
revolution, as his credentials to public favour, was
almost sure to be superseded by the greater popu-
larity of more recent favourites.

Thus in the election for members of congress,
at the commencement of the new government, Mr.
Fisher Ames, then only known as a young debater
of talents, prevailed over the immortal father of
the revolution, Samuel Adams. General Warren,
whose public character has been displayed in cor-
respondence with the subject of this memoir, and
who had long enjoyed the esteem, and received the
honours of his native state, was unsuccessful in
Plymouth ; and so many others divided the votes
with Mr. Gerry, who was a candidate in Middle-
sex, that no choice was made on that first theatre
of American independence.

The election of senators under the new govern-
ment was equally decisive of the temper of the
times. For many years Mr. Gerry had enjoyed
the most implicit confidence of the general court ;
no mark of their highest esteem had ever been with-
held from him ; and on every occasion in which
his name was presented for their ballots, it had re-
ceived nearly an unanimous vote. Now indeed

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 89

the case was changed ; so changed that his friends
were unwilling to expose him to the mortification
of defeat, by proposing him, according to their
first design, as a candidate for the senate of the
United States.*

The result showed their prudence. Mr. Strong
was chosen by both branches, without opposition.
But the friends of amendments proposed as his
colleague, Dr. Charles Jarvis, personally a great
favourite with the people, who though he voted
for the constitution in the convention, was known
to consider with great respect, the objections that
had been made to it, and to be as solicitous as Mr.
Gerry, to secure the alterations, which had been
proposed. The house of representatives at three
successive ballots gave him a majority of votes ;
but the senate nonconcured in the appointment,
and each time returned a different candidate. The
choice finally settled on honourable Tristram Dal-
ton, who had declared in the state convention his
perfect satisfaction with the constitution as it
stood, without any preference for the amendments
proposed.

By a most fortunate selection of a distinguishing
name, the advocates for the constitution, who were

*More liberal sentiments prevailed in Virginia, where Richard
Henry Lee, the mover of the declaration of independence, and a
strenuous opponent of the constitution was elected to the senate
of the United States against James Madison, its most powerful
advocate.

VOL. II. 12

90 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

fast forming and organizing themselves into a dis-
tinct party in the state, assumed the appellation
of federalists ; yet inasmuch as the chief objec-
tion to the new government consisted in its not
being a federal, but a national system, this pat-
ronymic might more justly have been claimed by
the opposite side. The term however was popu-
lar, and the popular party seized it, and under its
influence have justified the remark of a judicious
observer of affairs, that they who make ballads
and songs for the people have commonly more in-
fluence than those who make the laws.

A second ballot was ordered for Middlesex, and
not only the personal friends of Mr. Gerry, but
that political party, to which he might now be said
to belong, insisted on again placing his name be-
fore the public. The zeal of the one excited the
exertions of the other, and efforts were made by
both, corresponding to the importance of the con-
test. The competitor of Mr. Gerry on the first
trial had been Mr. Nathaniel Gorham, a gentleman
of character and property, whose family had long
been residents in the county. He had himself
presided as chairman of the committee of the
whole, in the convention at Philadelphia, and was
distinguished as an advocate for the constitution
in the convention of Massachusetts. At the sec-
ond trial the votes were divided among several
competitors. On this occasion the public press
opened its batteries of detraction, as if to prove the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 91

utter insecurity of reputation, when faction is de-
sirous of destroying it.

To judge by some of the journals of that day, it
would be thought that the " antifederal" candidate
for Middlesex had neither experience, talents, or
public character ; that he was some obscure, or
not trustworthy individual, who for the first time
had entered upon public life in the convention, and
grossly mistaking, or willfully counteracting, or
from personal interest desirous of defeating the
public sentiment, was properly to end his labours
with the scene in which they had commenced.

Disgusted with the virulence of the enemies by
whom he was assailed, and averse from reengaging
in the routine of legislative duty, in which he had
all his life been employed, Mr. Gerry addressed
the following letter to the electors of Middlesex :

Friends and Fellow Citizens :
It appearing from your suffrages that I am one of
your candidates for a federal representative, give
me leave for this evidence of your confidence, to
express my warmest acknowledgments, but at the
same time to request that such of you as may
again be disposed to honour me with your votes,
will turn your attention to some other candidate ;
for although I have been long honoured with the
confidence of my countrymen, and am conscious
that a regard to their political happiness has been
the sole motive of my conduct, yet circumstanced

92 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

as I am, an election would by no means be agree-
able.

Since however my name is again, without any
effort or inclination of my own, brought into public
view, I embrace this opportunity to explain that
conduct, for which I have been treated with so
much invective and abuse.

When the question on the constitution was put
in the federal convention, conceiving myself to be
in a land of liberty, where the privilege of delibe-
rating and voting with freedom would be firmly
supported, I voted against the constitution, because
in my opinion, it was in many respects defective.

Had my opinion been founded in error, it would
have been only an error of judgment. But five
states having ratified the constitution, in the ful-
lest expectation of amendments, and two having
rejected it, no one can, I think, deny that my
opinion has been confirmed by a majority of the
union. An attempt has been made by means of
invective, to impair or destroy the privilege men-
tioned ; a privilege, which no good citizen will
ever permit to die in his hands, and which the
good sense of the community will protect as one of
the pillars of a free state.

Some have endeavoured to represent me as an
enemy to the constitution ; than which nothing is
more remote from truth. Since the commence-
ment of the revolution, I have been ever solicitous
for an efficient federal government, conceiving

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 93

that without it we must be a divided and unhap-
py people. A government too democratical, I have
deprecated ; but wished for one that should pos-
sess power sufficient for the welfare of the union,
and at the same time be so balanced as to secure
the governed from the rapacity and domination of
lawless and insolent ambition. To an uncondi-
tional ratification I was therefore opposed, be-
cause thereby every necessary amendment would
be precarious. But as the system is adopted, I
am clearly of opinion that every citizen of the
ratifying states is in duty bound to support it,
and that an opposition to a due administration of
it would not only be unjustifiable, but highly cri-
minal.

Amendments every citizen has a right to urge
without exciting a spirit of persecution, which is
unnecessary in a good cause, and never gains pro-
selytes in a bad one. Every friend of a vigorous
government must, as I conceive, be desirous of
such amendments as will remove the just appre-
hensions of the people, and secure their confidence
and affection. To defeat amendments of this de-
scription, must be in effect to defeat the constitu-
tion itself. When the question on amendments
shall have received a constitutional decision, I shall
cheerfully acquiesce, and in any event, shall be
happy to promote the interests of the respectable
county of Middlesex, of this commonwealth, and
of the United States.

94 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The part, which I have had to act, and the un-
candid treatment, which I have received in this
matter will, I trust, justify me in being thus ex-
plicit, for I am conscious that every part of my po-
litical conduct has had for its object, the public
welfare.

I am, with the highest respect,

Your humble servant,

E. Gerry.

Whether this declaration was intended to aid,
or prevent his election, his friends would not with-
draw his name, and notwithstanding a powerful
competition, they succeeded in electing him on
the second ballot, by a small majority.

In his letter of acceptance to the governour, he
says, " I am deeply impressed with this honoura-
ble testimony of the electors of Middlesex, after I
had repeatedly informed them of my declining the
appointment. This however has placed me in a
situation, which of all others I wished to avoid ;
being thereby reduced to the disagreeable alterna-
tive of disappointing my fellow citizens, who have
conferred on me their suffrages, or of filling a place,
which the most cogent reasons had urged me to
decline. Under these circumstances, in the criti-
cal state of public affairs, I have preferred the lat-
ter, being determined to sacrifice every personal
consideration, to the acceptance of the office ;
that desirous as I am of the establishment of a

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 95

federal government, no act of mine may have the
least appearance of impeding it."

The sincerity of his views is made more appa-
rent by a letter to his confidential friend.

MR. GERRY TO GENERAL WARREN.

Cambridge, February 15, 1789.

My Dear Sir,

I suspect you will consider me as manifesting a
disposition to change my principles, or of a want
of resolution to adhere to them, when I tell you it
is probable I shall go to congress. Indeed if this
be your opinion, you will alter it when I assure
you of all political events in which I have been
interested, my election I consider as most unfor-
tunate to myself. I had not, during its pendency,
the most remote idea of acceptance, but thought
of it with horror.

I now think the measure one of all others that
threatens destruction to my peace, interest and
welfare, and yet such has been the torrent of abuse
against me, that no person here will listen to my
declining ; my best friends say they shall be sacri-
ficed by my refusal, and that I myself shall be
considered as an obstinate opposer of the govern-
ment, which is an opinion that has recently been
much circulated.

Should I decline then, I am to be considered as

96 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

a non-juror in Great Britain, or an Irish Catholic,
and sooner than so live, I would quit the continent.
In accepting, I see nothing but two years of ex-
treme disagreeables. To gratify my friends, and
to avoid the consequences menaced, I have selected
a certain positive evil ; whether it be the least of
the two, I am yet to learn.

In another letter to the same gentleman, after
having taken his seat in congress, he thus writes :
" I cannot accept your compliments, for I assure
you my situation here is a very awkward one. I
foresaw that it would be impossible for me to feel
easy in a branch of the federal legislature where I
had few or no connexions or friends. Whatever
the state of my case may be upon republican prin-
ciples, I cannot separate it in my mind from an idea
of degradation, when I reflect that the flower of
my life has been spent in the arduous business of
the revolution, and see a preference given to those
who have endured very few of its toils; but we
both know that republics were never remarkable
for the constancy of their attachment, and there-
fore private life is the place in which we are most
to look for happiness, especially when the road to
political honours lies through the mazes of intrigue,
servility and corruption. I have had so much to do
with legislation, that I feel an aversion to any fur-
ther occupation of that kind, and am satisfied that
retirement would most contribute to my own and
my family's happiness, therefore I fear not any

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 97

mortification from my enemies ; but from my friends
I do indeed experience it, by their urging me to
places, which are neither pleasant, lucrative nor
honourable. Their measures put me in trammels ;
had I declined, it would have been said and believed
that I was a determined enemy to the federal gov-
ernment, and my friends would have been reproach-
ed for supporting a man, who would not attend con-
gress to procure the amendments he had warmly in-
sisted upon. Indeed I should have been obliged to
leave the state, to seek a more agreeable residence,
which could only have been done by the sacrifice
of much property ; I have therefore been obliged,
by accepting this place, to submit to a temporary
mortification to counteract the malignity of invete-
rate foes.

" I cannot but smile at the art or folly, for I
know not which is the true cause, of those who
represent me as being elated at my appointment,
when the acceptance is indeed forced upon me by
circumstances, which operate as a great injustice
to myself. As to the new government, I am and
always was a federalist, but not in their sense of
the term. I feel bound in honour to support a
system that has been ratified by a majority of my
fellow citizens ; to oppose it would be to sow the
seeds of civil war, and to lay a foundation for mili-
tary tyranny. I shall be a spectator merely, until
I can form some adequate idea of men and mea-
sures."

VOL. II. 13

98 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER IV.

First Congress of United States Parties therein.. ..Speech on

amendments to the Constitution The public creditors Em-
ployments of private life Origin of the Democratic party

Commentary on the account given by the biographer of Washing-
ton French revolution British treaty Chosen to the

Electoral College of Massachusetts Votes for Mr. Adams

Correspondence with Mr. Jefferson on the election With a lady.

The government of the United States, under
the federal constitution, was organized at New-
York in April 1 789. There was a charm of novelty
in its arrangements well calculated to aid its intrin-
sic merits, and secure a propitious popularity.

Congress however like the nation itself, was
composed of men, who in the national or state
conventions, or in the primary assemblies of the
people, had taken opposite views of the new frame
of government, and formed different estimates of
its worth. Principles, which were brought into
the earlier discussion of its character, had lost none
of their force, and passions, which collision excited,
if they had in some degree subsided, were certain-
ly not extinguished. Honest men of all parties
were disposed to give the new system a fair setting
ofT, and to provide all reasonable equipments for
its long and profitable voyage. Opposition was
unorganized. Indeed as the constitution was the
supreme law of the land, they who objected to its

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 99

ratification, now that their original objections were
unavailing, professed to treat it with the respect
due to sovereign authority.

The political elements collected in the first con-
gress, notwithstanding these appearances, could
not easily assimilate ; and their natural repulsion
was increased by artificial excitements. They by
whose efforts the government had been called into
being, felt themselves its natural guardians, and
were unwilling to share their honours with less
fortunate companions ; while the other class, who
considered their oath of fidelity as security for al-
legiance, resented as derogatory and offensive every
attempt at discrimination. It was soon apparent
that lines of division would be drawn, not easily to
be effaced.

The state elections had given to the federalists*

* In the course of an early debate, Mr. Gerry took occasion to
remark tliat lie did not like the term national, in a resolution then
before the house. However correct it was abstractly consider-
ed, it had acquired in the debates on the constitution, a technical
meaning, and was used to designate a consolidation, and not a
confederacy of the states. The term federal too, he said, properly
belonged to those, who really desiring a federal union, had felt it
a duty to oppose one, which in their view had few fedral princi-
ples, and it was improper that the friends of amending the system
should be called antifederalists, inasmuch as they eminently
were the advocates of a federal government. As the question
had been presented to the people, it was between those who
were then for ratifying the constitution, and those who would
have delayed it, or between ratifiers and anti-ratifiers. These
then should have been their denominations, which by abbre-
viation might entitle them to the appellatives rats, and anti-rats.

100 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

decided superiority in numbers, and an imposing
weight of character. Ambition, not easily ex-
cluded from an assembly of statesmen, secured for
them the arrangements and confederacy of a politi-
cal party. Power was in their hands, and its natu-
ral tendency to self-confidence and pride was not
diminished by the mode of acquiring it.

Stern republicans, who had resisted the existing
form from a jealous apprehension of its conse-
quences, found in thus realizing their fears, new
cause of respect for their judgment, and none for
relinquishing opinions, which experience seemed
to them gradually to confirm. Other incidents
strengthened these convictions. There appeared to
one class of the community too much conformity
in the external form of the new government to the
pageantry of European courts, in levees, audiences
and addresses, not suited to the plain habits of an un-
ostentatious democracy. Efforts to confer high ti-
tles on its great functionaries,* to make a discri-
mination in the rank and emoluments of the two
branches of the legislature : to fix compensation for
services beyond the standard of like duties in the
states, and above all, the latitude of construction,
which there was a supposed inclination to give to
the language of the constitution, early filled many
minds with serious apprehensions.

* The president to be called his highness. So at first voted
in the senate. Some newspapers proposed that the members of
the house of representatives should be called honourable ; sena-
tors to be addressed as right honourable.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 101

The exercise of government patronage was a
further, and as it always has been, an irritating
subject of dissatisfaction and uneasiness. The
friends of amendments, now generally and most
unwisely held up in the light of an opposition ac-
cording to English precedent, began to apprehend
that if they were not marked by a stern principle
of exclusion from participating in the honours of
public employment, they were beheld with suspi-
cion and slight regard.

The composition of the cabinet and appoint-
ments to which the personal knowledge of the
president extended, were not included in their dis-
satisfaction, but beyond that line the unfriendly
influence of a government party was thought to be
visible.

Indeed the personal character of the president
was fortunately for the country a rock, on which
the whole community rested. Implicit confidence
was placed in his patriotism and ability ; and his
alternate gratification and reproof of the leaders of
each party, restrained the tumult of the waves,
which at that early period threatened to sweep
from before them the then unsettled fabric of free-
dom.

It was perhaps pardonable to believe that men,
who opposed the constitution, would embarrass
the government. But there were measures of
such novel and intricate character incident to the
establishment of a federative empire, that a more

102 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

candid consideration of the motives of the public
agents is now due to their fame. A desire to secure
such amendments to the national charter as had
been deemed necessary by the states, was indeed
the anxious wish of those statesmen with whom
Mr. Gerry had acted. To motives derived from a
conviction of their intrinsic importance, were ad-
ded without doubt those, which addressed them-
selves to their pride of opinion and their character
before the people; but even the question of amend-
ments they were willing to postpone to the more
urgent subjects, which the organization of a new
government pressed on their notice.

Mr. Gerry, who unquestionably spoke the senti-
ments of this class, gave ample evidence of their
disposition to aid in good faith those measures of
general interest for which the government was in-
stituted, and of the reluctance with which they
would be driven into opposition by illiberality or
harshness.

" I am of opinion," he said in debate, " that we
should despatch the important subjects now on the
table, and reserve the great questions concerning
the form of the constitution, to a period of tran-
quillity and leisure. It is indeed a momentous
subject, and very near my heart, and I shall be
glad to set about it as speedily as possible ; but I
would not stay the operations of government on
that account. I think our political ship should be
first got under way, and that she be not suffered

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 103

to lay by the wharf, until she beats off her rudder,
or runs a wreck on shore. I wish an early day
may be assigned for the consideration of amend-
ments, to prevent the necessity, which the states
may feel themselves under of calling a new con-
vention. If I am not one of those fascinated ad-
mirers of the system who consider it all perfection,
I am not so blind nor so uncandid, that I cannot
see, or will not acknowledge it has beauties. It
partakes of humanity ; there is blended in it virtue
and vice, excellence and error. If it be referred
to a new convention, we risk some of its best pro-
perties. My opinion was openly given, that it
ought not to have been ratified without amend-
ments, but as the matter now stands, I am firmly
of opinion that the salvation of America depends
on the establishment of this government, whether
amended or not. If this constitution, which is
now ratified, be not supported, I despair of ever
having a government for these United States."

The sentiments thus expressed, were those to
which candid men could take no exception. They
were the honest sentiments of a class of the com-
munity, which if not then an actual majority, was
numerous and respectable enough not wantonly
to have been assalied. It tended nothing to una-
nimity, that such men found themselves looked
upon with suspicion, and their professions listened
to with an incredulity that was little else than an
imputation upon them of stratagem and fraud.

104 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The feelings, which this state of things excited,
were not calmed or conciliated by the measures
proposed and adopted by congress. There was a
radical difference of principle among the members,
as great, as could be found on the subject of the
subject of the constitution itself, in the proposi-
tions of Mr. Pendleton and the scheme of Colonel
Hamilton. Notwithstanding this fact, which would
sooner or later produce more open discordance, Mr.
Gerry and his political friends lent with good faith
the aid of their abilities and experience to the mea-
sures of the government. In the commercial and
financial departments, where previous application
had given him great facility and acquaintance, he
was early put in requisition, and in forming the
first tariff and tonnage bills, he laboured with great
industry and perseverance. Information, which is
now easily acquired through regular channels, and
is systematized by the assistance of clerks, was
then obtained by the exertion of individual mem-
bers. The vast mass of documents, which went
into the composition of these first bills of revenue,
were collected, arranged and consolidated, by his
personal labour.*

With zeal for an efficient and energetic admin-
istration, and a sincere desire to cooperate in es-
tablishing it, his views and those of his friends

* The voluminous correspondence and the immense statistical
abstracts among his papers, is authority for the remark in the
text.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 105

were in many respects so different from the ma-
jority of congress, that they could not escape the
imputation of conducting a concerted opposition.

"Jtis my rule," said he in a private letter, "to
support such measures as I think good or harmless,
and to oppose those, from whatever quarter they
come, which are in my opinion of a different cha-
racter ; but when the project is ripened into a law,
I feel bound to respect it, however its passage may
have been procured. But this does not satisfy a
certain class of men, who have very pompous no-
tions of government, and seem disposed to make
those powers, which were objectionable in the
theory of government, felt and feared in the prac-
tice of it. There is a strong disposition to make the
administration exclusive, and if there was not more
resistance in the character of the president than
there is in the provisions of the constitution, such
would be most decidedly the case. A fair compe-
tition among honourable men gives alarm. There
are those who wish to increase the value of their
chances, by diminishing the number of rivals, and
to hold nearly one half the community in a state
of alienage, so that they may be no more trusted
than the partizans of the pretender. Even this
would be less intolerable, if they were willing to
take the credit of their design, but while they are
themselves the origin and cause of opposition, by
a superciliousness, which belongs to the better
sort, they contrive to represent the true friends of
VOL. ii. 14

106 LIFE OF ELBKIDGE GERRY.

the people as promoters of strife and division. All
this is painful to us as citizens of a country, which
has suffered so much for freedom, and exceedingly
unpleasant to those who are called into its coun-
cils. The judiciary bill will surprise you. It now
stands so that we are to have a court with original
jurisdiction in cases affecting life, liberty and pro-
perty, without an appeal, and composed of judges
not removable except by conviction on impeach-
ment. But you will consider me as a great anti-
federalist, and to preserve your good opinion I will
not enter into a further explanation of matters de-
pending. They may be changed in their progress,
and I suppose come out perfectly federal, which I
know you will think perfection itself."

Mr. Gerry undervalued his influence in this first
congress of the United States. True indeed, the
spirit of party had its residence there, and the
general character of a statesman was not a suffi-
cient badge of honour, without, wearing the colours
under which he was enrolled. It was true also
that the rank, in which Mr. Gerry was usually
found, was not the party of the strongest, and that
the general supervision and direction of affairs, to
which he had been for many years accustomed,
had passed to other hands ; but on subjects of diffi-
culty and importance, it was impossible that he
should not be listened to with attention and re-
spect. In the discussions, which agitated that as-
sembly, in all matters connected with finance, on

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 107

the proposed discrimination between the public cre-
ditors, on funding the indents of the state treasu-
ries, and the assumption of the state debts, he ex-
pressed very largely his opinions, and was most
generally in the majority of the house.

In the protracted debate upon the first report
of the secretary of the treasury, Mr. Gerry enter-
ed very fully in defence of some of its proposi-
tions, which might have afforded a popular theme
for opposition, if there had been a settled design
to embarrass the operations of the government.

After defending the power of congress to as-
sume and pay the state debts, he enquires, Who
are the holders of state certificates ? Some of the
state creditors, he replies, were officers and sol-
diers of the late army. The first army of the
United States was raised, armed and clothed by
the states. The officers and soldiers have as
strong a claim on the justice of the country, as
those who were enlisted at the close of the war;
a greater indeed, as they came forward in those
dark moments, when to the dangers of ordinary
warfare, were superadded the penalties of rebel-
lion. These men acknowledge no difference in
their rights because they were enlisted by state
instead of continental authority ; for they were
adopted by congress, formed into one army, fought
the same battles, and shared the same hardships,

Another part of the state creditors, are men,
who furnished supplies for the union, during the

108 LJFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

late war. Can any one, who recollects the cir-
cumstance, imagine a difference between them
and continental creditors, except that they came
forward in our extremest need, when the more
distant authority of congress was inadequate to
the occasion. Part of the state debts were conti-
nental debts assumed by the state on the earnest
recommendation of congress ; other parts were
occasioned by the states having undertaken expe-
ditions against the common enemy for the general
good, or having paid to their citizens interest on
the continental debt.

It is said the proposed assumption will raise the
importance of the union and depress the states.
If I thought so I should oppose it, because the
constitutional balance between the states and the
union, ought to be preserved. I view the consti-
tutions of the united and individual states, as form-
ing a great political machine, in which the small
wheels are as essential as the large ones, and if
either are deranged, the movement will be imper-
fect ; but I humbly conceive a contrary policy will
have the effect predicted. Suppose congress
refuse to assume the state debts ; they will
make, as they are able, provision for their own
creditors, but it is doubtful if each of the states
can make a similar arrangement, and if they fail,
the discrimination will most materially impair their
respectability. The United States creditors will
naturally magnify the honesty, integrity and ability

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 109

of the general government, and hold in contempt
and derision, the injustice or poverty of the local
authorities. A clamour might be raised against the
state governments, made more general by the con-
trast between them and the nation, and the pecu-
niary interests of a large class of citizens, operat-
ing to their injury, may have a prejudicial effect
on their permanency or their strength.

The national government may incline to oppress
the states, and I ask whether they would not be
better able to resist this attack if they had no
creditors to provide for. The common maxim is,
out of debt, out of danger, but the opposite ar-
gument reverses it, and in my opinion, very un-
soundly.

A discrimination will establish two contending
parties. They who look to the union for their
payments will be desirous of extending its power
of taxation, revenues, resources and credit. They
who look for their payments to the states, will be
prone to diminish the continental power, for the
purpose of enlarging the funds from which they
are to derive their reward. This discord will de-
feat the operation of both.

It has been suggested that the state debts may
not have been fairly liquidated. I should think
from personal observation there was no ground for
this fear. The creditors of Massachusetts have had
their accounts adjusted quite as strictly as those

110 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

of the federal government. Other states have
acted in the same manner.

It is said we are unacquainted with the ability
of the union, and therefore it is improper to pledge
the public faith for the payment of a debt, which
may possibly exceed its means. I do not now,
and never did, despair of the ability of the United
States to pay their debts. Our finances are in-
deed deranged, but we are taking measures to ex-
tricate ourselves from the evil of such a situation,
and should not be deterred from ascertaining the
amount we owe, from present inability to pay it.
By the secretary's report, we can now pay two
thirds the interest. With increasing resources and
a gradual diminution of the interest, we may
eventually discharge the whole. But let me not
be misunderstood. I would not pledge the gov-
ernment to what it could not perform. I would
not subject it to any engagement, which it might
not be able to make good. But the acknowledg-
ment of our obligation is one thing, the mode of
discharging it, another. The best interest of the
creditors as well as the nation, is to make such
arrangement as by securing the actual perform-
ance of what is just, will so modify the means as
not to make it inconveniently onerous. The se-
cretary's report goes on the ground of admitting
the force of all the public contracts. He allows
no preference as to continental creditors, among

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. Ill

whom, if their claims could be examined, would
be found weightier causes of difference than exist
between the classes, whose rights are severally
referable to the states or the nation. There is
the same principle to prevent discrimination in
either case. Indeed by the constitution, the effi-
cient means of revenue are conveyed to the feder-
al government. The states are almost wholly
without them, and it cannot be reasonable that
they should give up the resources for paying
the interest on their debts, unless those debts are
assumed by the nation. If indeed sir, with limit-
ed resources and a heavy debt, the states are to
commence the operations of the new confederacy,
the smaller will soon be crushed ; the larger will
be scarce able to get along. Their independence
is but nominal ; their sovereignty must exist but
in name, and a consolidated government take the
place of the system, which such a measure would
destroy.

With the second congress of the United States,
Mr. Gerry terminated his services in the legisla-
ture. He had declined reiterated and importunate
solicitations to be a candidate for reelection, and
retired to his farm and family at Cambridge.
Many reasons produced a disinclination to be
longer concerned in political affairs. The citizens
of the United States were fast forming themselves
into fierce and irreconcilable parties, and it was the
policy of the dominant power, to identify the op-

1 1 2 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

position with hostility to the constitution itself.
That hostility on the part of Mr. Gerry had pass-
ed away, and not only in conformity with his early
declaration, that he would submit to the will of
the majority, but because the recent amendments
had essentially changed its character, he was dis-
posed to give it a fair trial and an honest support.

There was, however, in the early measures of
congress, much to excite the apprehension of so
jealous a republican, always alive to the dangers
of political power, and habitually regardful of pub-
lic liberty ; and without participating in that spirit
of party, which rallied its members on all occa-
sions, under their several banners, he was too fre-
quently found opposing the measures of the ma-
jority, to be classed among their friends. On the
other hand, when the movements of the adminis-
tration met the approbation of his judgment, he
was not deterred from lending them his support,
although the occasion might be one, which the op-
position had selected as favourable for a combined
attack. The integrity and independence, or if
any one so chooses to call it, the singularity of
mind, which would not submit to be bound by the
shackles of party, would not give to either side a
security for his vote, and would obviously in the
end deprive him of the favour of both.

But his most intimate personal friends were
chiefly among those, whose attachments combined
them with the government. Against these he

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 113

could not very frequently take a stand without
dissatisfaction to them, nor be on their side with-
out violence to himself. Nor was the state of
affairs in congress calculated to gratify his ambi-
tion or reward the long labours of experience. He
who had been one of the chief leaders and direc-
tors of the administration, when the whole au-
thority of government was confided to the dele-
gates of the states, could find little pleasure in being
one of the lower branch of a deliberative assem-
bly, where the charge of arranging and directing
the great movements of the political machinery,
was in other hands. A new generation of states-
men had arisen since the declaration of indepen-
dence, whose active spirit, under the peculiar
condition of things, elevated them over those earli-
er patriots, by whom the resistance of the colo-
nies had been first promoted.

Motives equally strong were also derived from
his personal concerns. A young and numerous
family claimed that attention, which their mother's
infirm health could but partially bestow, and threw
on him the responsibility of forming their princi-
ples, superintending their education, and preparing
them for the duties of society.

As a father, he found a field for his labours, upon
which he entered with all the zeal and more than
all the pleasure, which the patriot and statesman
had experienced in different pursuits. Peculiarly
kind and affectionate in his disposition, the culture

vol. ii. 15

114 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

of the infant mind had an irresistible charm for
him, while his benevolent feelings and affable
manners endeared him to the young objects of his
regard.

Perhaps no individual of any profession or em-
ployment, certainly none whose temper had been
so often tried in the angry tempests of political
discussion, was more thoroughly mild, placid and
placable. If experience had not shown how in-
flexible were his purposes, and how perseveringly
he pursued them in the great concerns of public
duty, if the firmness with which he maintained
his sentiments, or the untiring efforts, by which
they were inculcated, had not been repeatedly
displayed in critical situations of political life, it
might have been supposed that the softer elements
of human nature were too intimately mingled in
his character, to enable him to maintain the rank
he obtained among statesmen ; while on the other
hand those, who were acquainted with the mild
and gentle spirit, which displayed itself at home,
and witnessed the conciliatory temperament, which
rendered him the favourite and friend of the youth-
ful circle, might well have been surprised at the
vigorous efforts and the immovable firmness of
his public conduct. This delineation of his pri-
vate character, is very different from the picture
presented by political adversaries, who saw him
only when considerations of public duty imposed
their irresistible weight upon his mind. In the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 115

angry collisions of a later period, and in the per-
sonal resentments growing out of an unfortunate
state of affairs, there were many, who believed
what the press seemed desirous of establishing,
that the leader of the republican party had the
ascerbity of temper, the ferocity and vindictive-
ness, which belonged to the Brissots and Dan-
tons, to whom they chose to resemble him, and
that the government of Massachusetts was want-
ing at one period in nothing but power to have
resembled itself to the most busy period of the
revolutionary guillotine. Such is the distorting
atmosphere of party, and the credulity, which un-
der its excitement, receives the most monstrous
fictions for truth.

Mr. Gerry passed the succeeding four years in
the superintendence of his farm, and the cultiva-
tion of those young plants of a more endearing de-
scription, which providence had intrusted to his
care. Efforts were made in vain to draw him into
various situations of a public character. The citi-
zens of Middlesex, elected him in May 1793, to
the senate of the commonwealth, but he declined
the honour of a seat in that body, and would not
permit himself to be named as a candidate either
for the council or the house of representatives, as
he was repeatedly solicited to do by his friends.*

* A very flattering effort was made to draw him back to pub-
lic life, which profitable and honourable as it was, he had the
resolution to withstand. The commissioners under the sixth

116 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Even the correspondence, which he had hitherto
extensively carried on, seems during this interval
to have been in some degree relinquished. All
the energy of mind, which for so many years had
been devoted to his country, were confined to the
little territory under his control, and the young
republic of which he was the natural head.

Of this period of tranquillity and peace he
often afterwards spoke with unmingled satisfac-
tion, and was inclined to consider it as the hap-
piest passage of a long life. His residence was
near the seat of the university at Cambridge.
Few young men resorted to that institution with-
out desiring the privilege of his acquaintance.
The hospitality of his mansion and the urbani-
ty of his manners, domesticated the most respec-
table of them in his family circle. Strangers,
whom curiosity or interest led to that centre of
literary attraction, were received in a manner suit-
ed to the rank he had held in the public councils,

article of the treaty of London, consisting of two Americans and
two Englishmen, assembled in Philadelphia in May 1797, and an
attempt was to be made to choose the fifth, which would com-
plete the board, by mutual consent. The government of the
United States were very desirous he should bean American, and
deeming it probable if some highly respectable and well known
character was nominated, the British would accept him, they
were anxious to propose Mr. Gerry. The business would have
conformed in some degree with his accustomed habits of mind,
and in other respects would have been both agreeable and lu-
crative, but he declined permitting his name to be submitted to
the board.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 117

although the hospitality of a generous disposition,
made an inconvenient inroad on his property.

Like most of those, who had been actively con-
cerned in the direction of the revolution, Mr.
Gerry had retired from the service of the country
with no other emolument than the honours it con-
ferred. The fluctuation of affairs, which had re-
quired a constant watchfulness over private con-
cerns, and incessant public employment, which ob-
structed it, prevented not merely the increase, but
almost the preservation of those means, which the
early patriots had carried into the contest. For-
tunes had been realized indeed in the changes of
the times, but the Deity who presided over the
distribution of wealth, seemed to consider that
the statesmen and soldiers of the country had re-
ward enough in the glory they acquired, and that
opulence was to be conferred as a compensation
for the want of other titles of respect.

" It is necessary for me," said Mr. Gerry in a
letter of this date, " to become a farmer, and to
endeavour to preserve those resources, which po-
litical engagements have allowed me little oppor-
tunity, and I might say, less inclination to im-
prove."

During these four years of domestic seclusion,
those dissensions, the germ of which was starting
when Mr. Gerry retired from congress, had struck
their roots deep and firm, and extended over the
entire continent. It was impossible that he could

118 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

either have been careless of the progress of
events, or indifferent to their consequences. His
temporary removal from the sphere of operations,
made him, unquestionably, a calmer observer,
and probably a less heated partizan, than those
who were more actively engaged in the labours of
the field, so that on his return to public life
he was unwilling to sacrifice private friendship
and the habits and attachments of former years
to the stern Moloch of the day ; yet his prin-
ciples always assimilated, and his conduct soon
identified him with the great democratic party of
the United States.

This party, which for nearly the whole dura-
tion of the existing government, embraced a vast
majoritv of the American people, has in some
parts of the country, and particularly in the native
state of Mr. Gerry, been for nearly an equal
period wholly deprived of political power. While
its members in some sections have enjoyed all the
honours of the people, they have in others been
treated almost as outlaws, with the humiliation,
which attaches to an inferior and degraded caste.

The political class to whom the subject of this
memoir most intimately belonged, have found
among their other misfortunes, that their motives
were misunderstood, their principles misstated,
and their conduct defamed. The leading histo-
rian of the country, whose own great talents suit-
ed so well the subject most interesting to Ameri-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 119

cans, which he selected for his theme, has by a
series of sarcastic and derogating animadversions,
contributed to propagate the favourite opinion of
their adversaries, that this disturbing power in the
state was a fermenting mass of faction, ignorance
and disappointment. The lion, says the fable,
was not the sculptor of the piece.

Before the formation of the constitution, the
distresses, which had been occasioned by the ope-
rations of the war, had amassed themselves in a
degree, which in many places deranged the whole
economy of life. Debts had accumulated, specie
vanished, and the enforcement of creditor rights
often dissolved the only sources from which re-
muneration could proceed. Time was necessary
for the reaction of public energies. There were
found, as a consequence of this state of things, two
classes of men, one of whom insisted on the strict
execution of the letter of the bond, the other
were willing to delay for a convenient period,
the exertion of judicial power, upon the principle,
that as the war had in many cases wholly destroy-
ed the claims of the creditor, by annihilating his
debtor's property, and sometimes his life, so in all
it had produced a good reason for lenity and delay.
To this incident it has pleased the biographer
before alluded to, to trace the commencement of
political parties, and omitting even the plausible
reasons, by which the one defended its opinions,
to trace the origin of the democracy of the coun-

120 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

try through a systematic hostility to the constitu-
tion, up to a nefarious disregard of personal obli-
gations, and a contemptuous indifference to the
validity of private contracts, the demands of jus-
tice, and the security of law ; and as in this
division of the community, the affluent would
naturally be on one side, andmen of more mo-
derate circumstances on the other, so the for-
mer are, by necessary inference, identified with
the honour, the virtue, and the character, which
are attached to a good government, and the latter
with those demoralizing habits, which spring up
among men, whom revolution could not impo-
verish, nor rebellion destroy.

Neither hostility to the constitution, nor oppo-
sition to the government can fairly be traced to
this source. On these latter points men were di-
vided who acted together on the first. The con-
dition of things before the convention at Philadel-
phia, was not one, which can identify the opposi-
tion to their projected system with any preconcert-
ed design of subverting it ; and dissatisfaction
with the constitution, as it came from the hands
of its framers, is improperly charged to be a
motive for subsequent opposition to the govern-
ment. No individual did more to secure the suc-
cess of the administration than the first secretary
of state, who is well known to have been dis-
pleased with the original principles of the con-
stitution. No one did more to establish the great

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 121

democratic party of the United States than he who
was the projector and defender of the constitution
in the convention, and its leading advocate before
the people. The instances alluded to are not cases
of individual exception ; they are examples fol-
lowed by vast multitudes, and refute the imputa-
tion that the administration commenced under the
auspices of wealth and integrity, and was beaten
down by poverty and fraud.

If the origin of the great democratic party is to
be traced to a period antecedent to that in which
it was formed, it may be sought in those highly
enlightened and honourable sentiments, in which
the revolution was commenced and accomplished.
The chivalrous leaders of those perilous times
persuaded themselves that the happiness of the
people was the only legitimate object of govern-
ment ; that the means of the people were not to
be exacted without their consent, nor was their
consent to be expected for an useless or wasteful
expenditure. The British government, by viola-
ting these principles, raised that storm, which
swept away their authority ; the new government
was objectionable as it failed to secure them, and
the administration reprehensible by its similar
tendencies.

For the correctness of the facts, or the accu-
racy of the deductions, which combined this party
together it is not necessary to contend, but it is

vol. ii. 16

122 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

proper to demand for thern higher motives than
sordid cupidity or profligate injustice.

The class of men who, anterior to the com-
mencement of hostilities, had so freely discussed
the tendencies of political power towards des-
potic exertion, and who had, with pertinacity and
courage, contended for the rights of the people in
all controversies between the colonies and the em-
pire, may have extended their analogies too far in
applying them to a government elected by the
citizens over which it was placed. Be it so. It
is a question of fact, which posterity may settle
against them, and still leave their honour unques-
tioned and their integrity unimpeached.

The intimation that poverty and faction first
opposed the constitution, and then the adminis-
tration of the government erected under it, was
made to receive countenance by the fact, that the
wealth, which the government created, readily en-
listed on its side.

The new constitution went into operation, when
the debt of the revolution had depreciated to an
eighth of its nominal value. This had passed, in
a great degree, from meritorious creditors, who
had expended their property or their blood to
acquire it, into the hands of speculation and
traffic. In many instances the funds, concealed
when patriotism required them to be expended,
were lavished in the acquisition of those certifi-
cates, which the country had issued in evidence,
as well of its justice as its poverty.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 123

A vast proportion of the whole debt of the
nation had changed hands. The duty of pro-
viding for its payment was universally admitted.
The right of discrimination between the original
owners and their assignees, though long and ably
maintained, was of doubtful character, and the
faith of the nation, which finally redeemed all
its promises with interest, raised into existence an
army of pensioners, who were ready, with the com-
mon feelings of household troops, to prove their
devotion by the excesses of their zeal.

The accumulation of fortune, thus suddenly
produced, aided the administration, not only by its
actual strength, but by that appearance of respect-
ability, which opulence never fails to confer.

Causes intrinsic and immovable, for the for-
mation of the great parties of the country, may
also be traced, without disparagement to either,
in an original difference of opinion concerning the
arrangement of political power. The opposite
and counteracting forces of the states and the
nation, it was admitted on all hands, were neces-
sary to preserve the relative proportions of the
whole and the parts, as the centripetal and cen-
trifugal forces maintain the balance of the solar
system. But the principle was more easily admit-
ted than applied. What the proportion should be
was not ascertained. A desire improperly to in-
crease or weaken these forces, was ascribed by each
party, with sincerity no doubt, to its opponent, as
premeditated wrong.

124 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The plan of col. Hamilton, for the distribution
and continuance of the powers of government, had
more real than ostensible friends. They, who con-
sidered it as the beau ideal of a good constitution,
would endeavour to render the actual condition of
the existing one as conformable to its principles
as its established forms would allow ; while others,
who saw the prerogatives of authority advanced
further than, in their opinion, the safety of public
liberty permitted, would on all questions calculated
to increase them take the side of opposition.

In every written law involving extensive con-
cerns and matters of detail, much is unavoidably
to be settled by construction. To ascertain which
of two meanings is the intention of the enacting
power, forms no small part of the common business
of the judiciary department ; and the most curious
facility of language has never yet presented a series
of propositions, whose exact meaning was univer-
sally admitted. There is certainly no exception
to the common ambiguity of language in the con-
stitution of the United States. Hence a cause of
great difference of opinion. By one class of states-
men it was considered wise to expand its powers by
construction, and in all those cases, which admitted
of two modes of interpretation, to adopt that, which
should strengthen the principles of power. The
opposite course reconciled itself more easilv with
the views of another class. The motives, which
led to results thus deduced were impeached

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY. 125

instead of being traced, as they ought to have been,
to that formation of mind, education and character,
which might vindicate their integrity. Hence the
favourers of a strong government, who chose to
consider themselves federalists, were designated
as aristocrats and supporters of oligarchy ; the
friends of a more popular system, who claimed the
appellation of republicans, were represented as de-
mocrats, demagogues, and hypocritical courtiers of
the people.

The connexion between the dignity of office
and the intelligence, which deserved it, was inge-
niously claimed by the dominant party, and not
only the daily press, but works of more permanent
authority, have countenanced this suggestion, and
a sneer of contempt at the absurdity of argument
or the frivolity of fear, which disturbed the party
in opposition, is but ill disguised by the affected
impartiality of history.

In a bill proposed at the first congress, organiz-
ing a department of the treasury, a clause was
inserted, making it the duty of the secretary to
digest and report plans for the improvement and
management of the revenue, and the support of
public credit. It was opposed under an appre-
hension of the extension it would give to ministe-
rial influence, its imitation of the British parlia-
ment, and as a precedent, which would be extend-
ed to countenance the personal introduction of
these ministers on the floor of the house. Upon

126 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the discussion of the bill, says the biographer of
Washington, Mr. Gerry remarked, that " he had
no objection to obtaining information, but he could
not help observing the great degree of importance
gentlemen were giving to this and the other ex-
ecutive officers. If the doctrine of having prime
and great ministers of state were once well estab-
lished, he did not doubt he should soon see them
distinguished by green or red ribbon insignia of
court favour and patronage."

It might be well twenty years after the danger
had passed, to ridicule the means by which it was
defeated, by way of proof that there never was any
cause of alarm. But if members of the cabinet
had been admitted on the floor of congress to
explain, and of course enforce their schemes of
finance and policy ; if the secretary of the treasu-
ry might personally have opened his budget, and
the secretary of state his schemes of foreign or
domestic relations, the executive power would
have acquired an increased momentum, at the ex-
pense of the representative rights of the people.
The effort shows the views of the different mem-
bers of congress, not merely on the details of this
particular subject, but on principles so funda-
mental as naturally to separate them like the dif-
ferent elements of the material world.

In the importance and novelty of the measures
brought into discussion, both in the halls of con-
gress and in the assemblies of the people, dilhcul-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 127

ties enough presented themselves to vindicate the
judgment of any one from reproach, on whichever
side he was found. Ignorance only would be self-
confident or rash. It is not unlikely indeed, that
a desire of participating in the enjoyment of pow-
er influenced the champions of the day, and that
the spoils of victory might have been among the
inducements to the contest ; but what candour is
there in ascribing more honourable motives to
those who fought to preserve their authority, than
to their competitors, who were striving to obtain
it ? On both sides were men of high principles,
ardent patriotism, great experience and rare in-
tellectual capacity. At the head of the govern-
ment was a tower of strength, which they of the
adverse faction wanted. The federalists claimed
him as their leader. But Washington was above
the atmosphere of party. He belonged to his
country, to the cause of civil liberty, to posterity,
mankind. He alone by the force of that sound
judgment, which on so many occasions had con-
tributed to the safety of the state, could maintain
a dignified neutrality in the midst of the wasting
warfare that was raging around him. If in the
asperity of remark on the administration, an arrow
of obloquy was aimed at the chief magistrate, it
rung harmlessly on the shield of public opinion.
Whatever in the councils of the nation satisfied
the opposing party, was with affectionate regard
ascribed to his personal virtues ; other measures

128 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

were traced to the influence of the counsellors who
surrounded him.

In the first arrangement of his cabinet, the ge-
nerous confidence of the president had collected a
fair representation of the different opinions, which
agitated the country. Circumstances in which he
had no agency, produced a resignation of some
members, and its composition essentially changed.

The weight and influence of the government
became essentially federal, and this advantage of
position they, who possessed it, were naturally
desirous to preserve.

While in the domestic concerns of the country
so many disturbing forces intervened to prevent
the regular gravitation of the system, the French
revolution burst on the astonished world, like a
comet, that from its horrid hair shook pestilence
and war.

For a people who were endeavouring to throw
off the yoke of oppression, there was naturally ex-
cited, in those who had successfully performed
the hazardous experiment, a strong and operative
sympathy. Gratitude for the services of that na-
tion, was a motive of unmeasured force. The
early friends of the American republic were in
hostility with its ancient and still suspected ene-
my. They presented a spectacle, in which free-
dom and the popular will were arrayed against
the authority of long established power. "When
the American administration, with an intelligence

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 129

and caution suited to the circumstances of a grow-
ing but unsettled empire, took the position of
neutrality and repressed the exuberance of feel-
ings honourable indeed but unsafe and unwise, it
produced asullenness of temper and a sentiment of
distrust, as if they too were joining in a conspiracy
of kings, and avowing the common affinity by
which government, no matter what is its form,
places itself by the side of government in any con-
test for popular rights.

But neutrality was too obviously suited to the
interests of the United States to be demolished by
the escalade of opposition ; and that generous en-
thusiasm, which at its first excitement would have
rushed into battle, was succeeded by more sober
judgment and calmer feelings, the best advocates
of peace.

The executive opened a negotiation with the
British government, and the treaty, which re-
sulted from it, unchained the fierce spirit of hos-
tility and separated the community into irrecon-
cilable factions. Passion and those personal and
private motives, by which the elements of party
are blown into a blaze, operated with all their
force, and they, who had other motives for re-
sentment, saw in this measure that fatal error,
which properly managed would unsettle the pow-
er of their rivals. The treaty itself and the man-
ner of its being negotiated, presented points of
extreme difficulty, justifying almost any view of it,

VOL. II. 17

130 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

which the statesmen of the day found themselves
disposed to take.

It is not to the present purpose to detail the ar-
guments, which with a power of intellect as hon-
ourable to the intelligence, as indicative of the
strong feelings of the American people, were urged
on the question of ratifying the treaty negotiated
by Mr. Jay. It is necessary only to allude to the
motives of the party, by whom its rejection was
enforced. In vindication of their judgment, may
be cited the authority of its friends.

" The enlightened negotiator," says Mr. Hamil-
ton, "not unconscious that some parts of the treaty
were less well arranged than was to be desired,
had himself hesitated to sign it. When the treaty
arrived, it was not without full deliberation and
some hesitation that I resolved to support it." In
the senate its ratification was recommended by a
mere constitutional majority. In the house of
representatives, on a question introduced to test
the opinion of that body, there was a vote of thirty-
seven in its favour to sixty-two against it.

The president doubted what to do, and balanc-
ing in his mind the objections and advantages,
with great delay and anxious reflection, finally
assented to a conditional acceptance.

Of the commercial advantages of the treaty of
London, many undoubtedly ventured an opinion
who were incompetent to decide. But its political
character was on a level with every capacity. It

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 131

was supposed to be the first step, and a very con-
clusive one, in taking sides between the two great
belligerents, and with a bold spirit of opposition
to the sentiments and feelings of the people, to
have selected the wrong one.

In the character and objects and governments
of the hostile nations, were traced a resemblance
to the character and sentiments of conflicting par-
ties in the United States, and the aristocratic and
monarchical tendencies of the constitution, gradu-
ally expanding in the progress of administration,
were here it was alleged fully blown out and de-
veloped ; and by a natural association, the govern-
ment that was but in name republican, would be
found on the side of kings in a crusade against
liberty and the rights of man.

These ungenerous imputations on the one side,
were met with corresponding severity on the
other.

To such violence were the angry feelings of the
community excited, that when the brutality and
ignorance of the French democrats were stripping
society of its forms of decency and order, subvert-
ing the institutions of religion, and confounding
all distinctions of education, morality and wealth,
the same appellation, with a view of expressing
a similarity of temper, was ordinarily bestowed
on the opposition party to the federal govern-
ment, until the name of a democrat became as
odious as that of a witch or a tory ; and when

132 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the jacobins of Paris, the ferocious murderers of
age and infancy and innocence, were dripping with
human blood, and celebrating their infernal orgies
round the guillotine, like cannibals at a feast,
their name was in the common language of the
day affixed to a numerical half of the American
people, with a design to have them considered as
instigated by like horrible perversity. Less causes
than these, have in other ages raised the standard
of civil war, and less moderation and patience than
marked the insulted party of the opposition, might
have repeated in the fair fields of our country the
scenes of Hexam or Bosworth.

The progress of events abroad, and the arts by
which each of the two American parties were iden-
tified with a foreign policy, had a tendency to
strengthen the administration and weaken its as-
sailants. The French revolution was not found
to be that desirable and rational march of liberty,
which had at first claimed the sympathies of the
actors in our own. The anarchy, which it encour-
aged, the subversion of law, order and government
which it threatened, and often times accomplished,
the vast force, which it concentrated, and the little
justice or humanity, which directed it, alienated
the affections, which it took no care to conciliate,
and its frightful excesses made the several adminis-
trators of its power, objects of fear, horror and sur-
prise.

During the storm, which was thus shaking to

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 133

its centre the government and very existence of
the American confederacy, Mr. Gerry was in the
retirement of his farm and his family, watching
its progress with anxiety and solicitude, but not
exposed to any undue share of its evils. The ex-
citement and irritation, which personal conflict
necessarily produces, it was thus his good fortune
to escape, and with more calmness and delibera-
tion to observe the movements of contending par-
ties. On most questions of domestic policy he was
entirely in unison with his former associates.

Of the foreign politics of the country he had
in some respects a different opinion. The dan-
gerous operation of the English government, on the
feelings, manners and principles of the country,
he realized with all the force, which had been
ascribed to them, and was particularly fearful
of increasing a connexion, which should give to
its influence the authority, which was denied to
its power. The resources and the profligacy of
the French nation were in his mind causes of
alarm, that should suggest a course of prudence
and policy calculated to preserve the neutral and
favourable position of the United States. The ad-
miration, which their early efforts had excited, had
yielded to astonishment at their singular success,
and horror at the want of principle by which their
power was directed. Partiality for French politics,
or a sympathy for French principles, then so com-
monly charged on his party, whether true or false

134 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

with regard to them collectively, was wholly un-
founded in its application to him.

While such conflicting interests and jarring opi-
nions agitated the people of the United States,
they were called upon to select a successor to the
only man, whose ascendency over the public mind
could control the licentiousness of faction, by com-
manding universal confidence and esteem. Great
and radical differences on the essential principles
of government gave to this contest all the zeal,
which sincerity and judgment could bring into
the field. With these the fiercest passions were
enlisted, and ambition, pride, the love of power
and desire of retaliation, the lordly feelings, which
delight in maintaining an ascendency, and the
proud spirit that revolts at it, arrayed themselves
under opposing banners, with a parade little short
of military triumph.

Mr. Gerry, without being previously consulted
by his fellow citizens, was called into the electoral
college of Massachusetts, and gave his vote for
Mr. Adams. It occasioned the following corres-
pondence.

MR. GERRY TO MR. JEFFERSON.

Cambridge, 3Iarch 27, 1797.

My Dear Sir,
Permit me, with great sincerity, to congratulate
you on your appointment to the office of vice pre-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 135

sident of the United States. It was, in my mind,
a very desirable object, and a wish, which I ardent-
ly expressed at the meeting of the electors ; but
as we were unanimously of opinion that Mr.
Adams' pretensions to the chair were best, it was
impossible to give you any votes, without annulling
an equal number for him ; otherwise you would cer-
tainly have had mine, and I have reason to think se-
veral others for vice president. The constitution,
as it respects these elections, makes a lottery of
them, and is I think imperfect. There was proba-
bly a plan laid, by coupling Mr. Pinckney with Mr.
Adams, to secure so many votes in this list for the
former, as with those for him in other lists, would
bring him into the chair ; but this was fortunately
seen through and defeated : and I flatter myself that
the elections will eventually have a happy effect on
the public mind, by the accommodating disposition
of the president and vice president, their mutual
friendship for each other and the pursuit of a gene-
ral system of moderation, exploding foreign influ-
ence of every kind, in every department of govern-
ment. Being unconnected with parties, whose
extremes I confess have been disagreeable to me,
and have detached me from politics, I am a re-
tired spectator, enjoying nevertheless the uncon-
trolled right of judging for myself, and of express-
ing independently to my friends, my ideas of the
measures springing from public and of the artifices
from private views. Thus circumstanced, give me

136 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

leave to express my apprehensions, that the con-
sequence of this election will be repeated strata-
gems to weaken or destroy the confidence of the
president and vice president in each other, from
an assurance, that if it continues to the end of the
president's administration, the vice president will
be his successor ; and perhaps from a dread of
your political influence. Indeed I think such an
operation has already commenced, and that you
will discover it ; but your mutual good sense will
see through the project and defeat it. Wishing
you to possess a full share of the public confidence,
which I am sure you always merited, and with it
much private happiness,
I remain

Your sincere friend,

E. Gerry.

MR. JEFFERSON TO MR. GERRY.

Philadelphia, May 13, 1797.

My Dear Friend,
Your favour of the 27th of March did not reachme
till April 21st, when I was within a few days of set-
ting out for this place, and I put off acknowledging it
till I should come here. I entirely commend your
dispositions towards Mr. Adams, knowing his worth
as intimately, and esteeming it as much as any one,
and acknowledging the preference of his claims, if

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 137

any I could have had, to the high office conferred on
him. But in truth I had neither claims nor wishes
on the subject ; though I know it will be difficult
to obtain belief of this. When I retired from this
place and the office of secretary of state, it was in
the firmest contemplation of never more returning
here. There had indeed been suggestions in the
public papers, that I was looking towards a suc-
cession to the president's chair ; but feeling a con-
sciousness of their falsehood, and observing that
the suggestions came from hostile quarters, I con-
sidered them as intended merely to excite public
odium against me. I never in my life exchanged
a word with any person on the subject, till I found
my name brought forward generally, in competi-
tion with that of Mr. Adams. Those with whom I
then communicated could say, if it were necessary,
whether I met the call with desire, or even with
a ready acquiescence ; and whether, from the mo-
ment of my first acquiescence, I did not devoutly
pray that the very thing might happen that has
happened. The second office of this government
is honourable and easy, the first is but a splendid
misery. You express apprehensions that strata-
gems will be used to produce a misunderstand-
ing between the president and myself. Though
not a word having this tendency has ever been
hazarded to me by any one, yet I consider as a
certainty that nothing will be left untried to
alienate him from me. These machinations will
vol. II. l8

138 LIFE OF ELBKIDGE GERRY.

proceed from the Hamiltonians by whom he is sur-
rounded, and who are only a little less hostile to
him than to me. It cannot but damp the pleasure
of cordiality when we suspect that it is suspected.
I cannot help fearing that it is impossible for Mr.
Adams to believe that the state of my mind is
what it really is ; that he may think I view him
as an obstacle in my way. I have no supernatu-
ral power to impress truth on the mind of another,
nor he any to discover that the estimate, which he
may form on a just view of the human mind as
generally constituted, may not be just in its appli-
cation to a special constitution. This may be
a source of private uneasiness to us ; I honestly
confess that it is so to me at this time ; but neither
of us are capable of letting it have effect on our
public duties. Those who may endeavour to se-
parate us, are probably excited by the fear that I
might have influence on the executive councils.
But when they shall know that I consider my office
as constitutionally confined to legislative functions,
and that I could not take any part whatever in ex-
ecutive consultations, even were it proposed, their
fears may perhaps subside, and their object be
found not worth a machination. I do sincerely
wish with you, that we could take our stand on a
ground perfectly neutral and independent towards
all nations. It has been my constant object
through public life ; and with respect to the Eng-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 139

lish and French particularly, I have too often
expressed to the former my wishes and made to
them propositions, verbally and in writing, official-
ly and privately, to official and private characters,
for them to doubt of my views, if they could be
content with equality. Of this they are in pos-
session of several written and formal proofs, in my
own hand writing. But they have wished a mo-
nopoly of commerce and influence with us, and they
have in fact obtained it. When we take notice
that theirs is the workshop to which we go for
all we want ; that with them centre, either im-
mediately or ultimately, all the labour of our hands
and lands ; that to them belongs, either openly or
secretly, the great mass of our navigation ; that
even the factorage of their affairs here is kept to
themselves by factitious citizenships ; that these
foreign and false citizens now constitute the great
body of what are called our merchants, fill our sea-
ports, are planted in every little town and district
of the interior country, sway every thing in the
former place by their own votes and those of their
dependents, in the latter by their insinuations and
the influence of their ledgers ; that they are ad-
vancing fast to a monopoly of our banks and pub-
lic funds, and thereby placing our public finances
under their control ; that they have in their alliance
the most influential characters, in and out of office.
When they have shown that by all these bearings
on the different branches of the government, they

140 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

can force it to proceed in any direction they dic-
tate, and bend the interests of this country entire-
ly to the will of another ; when all this, I say is
attended to, it is impossible for us to say we stand
on independent grounds, impossible for a free mind
not to see and to groan under the bondage in which
it is bound. If any thing after this could excite
surprise, it would be, that they have been able
so far to throw dust into the eyes of our own citi-
zens, as to fix on those who wish merely to re-
cover self-government, the charge of subserving
one foreign influence, because they resist submission
to another. But they possess our printing presses,
a powerful engine in their government of us. At
this very moment they would have drawn us into
war on the side of England, had it not been for the
failure of her bank. Such was their open and loud
cry and that of their gazettes till this event. After
plunging us in all the broils of the European na-
tions, there would remain but one act to close our
tragedy, that is, to break up our union : and even
this they have ventured seriously and solemnly
to propose, and maintain by argument, in a Con-
necticut paper. I have been happy however in
believing, from the stifling of this effort, that that
dose was found too strong, and excited as much
repugnance there as it did horror in other parts of
our country, and that whatever follies we may be
led into as to foreign nations, we shall never give
up our union, the last anchor of our hope, and that

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 141

alone, which is to prevent this heavenly country
from becoming an arena of gladiators. Much as I
abhor war, and view it as the greatest scourge
of mankind, and axiously as I wish to keep out
of the broils of Europe, I would yet go w,i.th my
brethren into these rather than separate from them.
But I hope we shall keep clear of them, notwith-
standing our present thraldom, and that time may
be given us to reflect on the awful crisis we have
passed through, and to find some means of shield-
ing ourselves in future from foreign influence, com-
mercial, political, or in whatever other form it may
be attempted. I can scarcely withhold myself
from joining in the wish of Silas Deane, that there
were an ocean of fire between us and the old
world. A perfect confidence that you are as much
attached to peace and union as myself, that you
equally prize independence of all nations and the
blessings of self-government, has induced me free-
ly to unbosom myself to you, and let you see the
light in which I have viewed what has been pass-
ing among us from the beginning of this war.
And I shall be happy at all times in an intercom-
munication of sentiments with you, believing that
the dispositions of the different parts of our coun-
try have been considerably misrepresented and
misunderstood in each part as to the other, and that
nothing but good can result from an exchange of
opinions and information between those whose

142 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

circumstances and morals admit no doubt of the
integrity of their views. I remain with constant
and sincere esteem, dear sir,

Your affectionate friend and servant,
*«, Th. Jefferson.

The design alluded to by Mr. Gerry, has since
been distinctly avowed by the leader of the party,*
and the declaration made by Mr. Jefferson, that the
projectors of the scheme under the pretence of
friendship for Mr. Adams, were only less hostile
to the one than the other, was within a short time
placed wholly beyond dispute. f

In answer to a letter of congratulation, the fol-
lowing was received from a lady, who in the ele-
vated sphere she was called to fill, displayed all
that dignity and elegance, which entitles her to
the admiration and respect of the community, as
her private virtues and amiable character secured
the affection of her domestic circle, and the es-
teem of her friends.

* "It is true that the faithful execution of this plan would
have given Mr. Pinckney a somewhat better chance than Mr.
Adams, nor shall it be concealed that an issue favourable to
the former would not have been disagreeable to me, as indeed I
declared at the time, in the circles of my confidential friends." —
Letter from A. Hamilton on the public conduct, fyc. of J. Adams,
page 17.

t Ibid, page 18.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 143

MRS. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Quxncy, December 31, 179G.

Dear Sir,

Your obliging favour of December 28th, I re-
ceived by the hand of Dr. Welch. I thank you
sir, for your congratulations, which receive their
value from the sincerity with which I believe them
fraught. The elevated station in which the suf-
frages of our country have placed our friend, is
encompassed with so many dangers and difficul-
ties, that it appears to me a slippery precipice,
surrounded on all sides with rocks, shoals and
quicksands. There is not any man, in whom again
can be united, such an assemblage of fortunate
circumstances, to combine all hearts in his favour,
and every voice in unison, as has been the singu-
lar lot of the president of the United States. Yet
even he, with the full tide of favour and affection,
has tasted the bitter cup of calumny and abuse,
an imported cup, a foreign mixture, a poison so
subtle as to have infected even native Americans.
What must a successor expect, who has near half
the country opposed to his election ? as well as all
the friends of the rival candidates mortified at
their defeat.

You sir, have been too long conversant in pub-
lic life, and full well know " the pangs and heart
aches" to which it is subject, not personally to
mix commiseration with your congratulations.

144 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

At my time of life, the desire and wish to shine
in public is wholly extinguished.

Retirement to Peacefield, the name which Mr.
Adams has given to his farm, is much more
eligible to me, particularly as my health has se-
verely suffered by my residence at Philadelphia.
But personally I shall consider myself as the small
dust of the balance, when compared to the inter-
ests of a nation. To preserve peace, to support
order, and continue to the country that system of
government under which it has become prosperous
and happy, the sacrifice of an individual life, im-
portant only to its near connexions, ought not to
be taken into consideration.

I fully agree with you in sentiment as it res-
pects the election of Mr. Jefferson. I have long
known him, and entertain for him a personal
friendship, and though I cannot accord with him
in some of his politics, I do not believe him culpa-
ble to the extent he has been represented. Placed
at the head of the senate, I trust his conduct will
be wise and prudent. I hope it will be a means
of softening the animosity of party, and of cement-
ing and strengthening the bond of union.

There never was any public or private animosi-
ty between Mr. Adams and Mr. Jefferson. Upon
the subject of Paine's Rights of Man, there was a
disagreement in sentiment. Mr. Jefferson " does
not look quite through the deeds of men." Time
has fully disclosed whose opinion was well founded.

The gentleman you alluded to as an active agent

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 145

in the election, has no doubt his views and de-
signs. There are some characters more supple
than others, more easily wrought upon, more ac-
commodating, more complying. Such a person
might be considered as the ostensible engine, which
a master hand could work. To what other mo-
tive can be ascribed the machiavelian policy of
placing at the head of the government, a gentle-
man not particularly distinguished for any impor-
tant services to his country, and scarcely heard of
beyond the state, which gave him birth, until sent
upon a public embassy.

• " Corruption wins not more than honesty." I
feel sir, when addressing you, the confidence of
an old friend, and that an apology is unnecessary
for the freedom of communication.

Be pleased to present my compliments to Mrs.
Gerry. It would give me pleasure to receive a
friendly visit from her and from you.
I am, dear sir,

With sentiments of respect and esteem,
Your friend and humble servant,

Abigail Adams.

vol. ii. 19

146 LIFE OF ELJHUDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER V.

Cabinet of president Adams Mr. Gerry nominated on a mission

to France Hostility of Mr. Pickering Acceptance urged

by Mr. Jefferson Letter from Mr. Otis Arrival in Paris

State of France Retrospective history of the connexion between

France and the United States.

The election of Mr. Adams was a signal tri-
umph to the federal party. It gave them, for at
least four years, the command of the government,
the influence of place and patronage, and the van-
tage ground of their opponents, which they lost no
time to improve.

The executive chief was not it is true, selected
by their voluntary preference. Men of leading
influence among them entertained serious doubts
of his fitness for the station, but " to preserve the
harmony of their party, they thought it better to
indulge their hopes than listen to their fears. "#

Those of them, who were desirous of an undue
share of influence, who from behind the throne
would be greater than the throne itself, anticipat-
ed from the character of Mr. Adams insurmount-
able obstacles to their schemes of personal ambi-
tion. The experience of the president in the ser-
vice of his country at home and abroad, through
all the troubles of the revolution, and since the

* Hamilton's letter, page 16.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 147

organization of its government, and the natural
temperament of his mind justly proud of its re-
sources, and confident in its strength, were not
likely to devolve on the aspiring spirits, who sur-
rounded him, the attributes of office, while he
himself should hold a barren sceptre in his hand.
The attempt to render him a mere automaton
under their control, and the resistance, which his
integrity and pride roused in opposition, soon pro-
duced that disunion in his cabinet, which mainly
contributed to its fall.

The views of the president were however es-

x

sentially those of the federal party, as they related
to measures of domestic policy or foreign inter-
course ; and the spirit of his first communication
to congress, was well calculated to elevate the
confidence of his friends, and to diminish the in-
fluence of his opponents.

It spoke of the disposition of France to alienate
the people of the United States from their govern-
ment ; a charge, the belief of which caused higher
resentment than almost any other on the long ca-
talogue of wrongs, and it gave point to the accu-
sation, by something more than an intimation, that
a conduct so demoralizing had already been en-
couraged by a party at home. The energy, with
which the speech incited the citizens of the Unit-
ed States to convince France they were " not a
degraded people humiliated under a colonial spirit
of fear and sense of inferiority, fitted to be the

148 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

miserable instruments of foreign influence, and
regardless of national honour, character and in-
terest," implied an accusation against all that class
of the community, who by recommending a policy
different from his own, had tended to produce the
disgraceful condition at which he spurned.

The popular language of the day described the
republican party as a French party, and the speech
of the president was calculated to fix upon them the
seal of reproach. It left a sting, which high and
honourable men could not but resent. It was con-
trived, at some expense indeed, to bring to the aid
of the executive those principles of loyalty and at-
tachment to their political institutions of which
the Americans are proud, by describing the oppo-
sers of the administration as miserable instruments
of foreign influence, regardless of national honour,
character and interest.

In the existing state of things, the first effort
of sound policy was to restore the amicable rela-
tions between the United States and France, or
if that was impossible, to bring to the standard of
the administration a strong accession of force
from the opposing ranks, by making the impos-
sibility apparent.

The president therefore avowed his design of
instituting a " fresh attempt at negotiation, and
his intention to promote and accelerate an accom-
modation on terms compatible with the rights, du-
ties, interests and honour of the nation."

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 149

In this declaration of the president subsequent
events proved he was sincere. If the language of
his coadjutors be taken for true, it is not now to
be doubted that the same integrity of intention
influenced their councils. But the great republican
party, while they hailed every effort with accla-
mation, which might tend to preserve the bless-
ings of peace, yet with the jealousy, which be-
longed to such times, doubted whether the parade
of negotiation was any thing more than an artful
effort to reconcile the nation to the alternative
of war.

By this great section of the community it was
believed, that the past intercourse of the countries
was not carried on in good faith by the American
ministers ; and that the show of negotiation was
artfully contrived to demonstrate its inefficiency,
with a view to enlist the public sentiment in mea-
sures, which must necessarily follow the failure of
an amicable settlement. They imputed to their
rivals a desire, as old as the constitution, to con-
vert the government into something stronger than
a mere representative republic, and as the first
step in this drama, to draw a closer connexion
with England, whose government and forms of
administration, and whose principles of civil policy
were more accordant with their own. They im-
puted to them a desire of producing such a state
of public affairs as would place at the command of
the executive an imposing military force, an in-

150 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

creased revenue, a vast official patronage, and
a coercive power over the personal liberty of
its citizens. Public opinion it was certain must
be elevated by the occurring of a crisis, to fa-
cilitate the progress of such operations, and the
failure of a negotiation, which would necessarily
produce a formal war, would be the consummation
of their hopes.

Not only did the republican party hold opinions
diametrically opposite to these grand schemes, but
the great body of the federalists it was known
needed only to discover them, to overwhelm them
with reprobation. The plan belonged to the ele-
vated few, who could expect to succeed in it only
by those master strokes of policy, for which if
their inclination suited, they were not deficient in
ability.

This conspiracy against the public liberty, im-
puted to the leaders of the dominant party and
proclaimed by their opponents like the prophecies
of Cassandra to incredulous ears, has since been
wonderfully countenanced by the disclosures, which
the then president has made ;* and it may be
now taken for true, that it was a combination of
a comparatively small circle of influential men,
against the sense of the nation, and that these
were even less guided by motives of personal am-
bition and desire of authority, than by a zeal for
their country's welfare, which in their opinion

* President Adams' letters, No. 2, p. 06.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 151

could be preserved from dissolution in its weak-
ness, only by the tonics of their philosophy.
The fact that such a plan existed in the cabinet,
explains many of the measures, which form the
history of those interesting times.

In pursuance of the president's declaration, he
instituted a commission to the French republic,
and as a pledge of his own sincerity, he proposed
to place among its members some distinguished
individual of the party, whose course of policy com-
manded the confidence of the opposition. In a
private interview with Mr. Jefferson, the appoint-
ment was offered to him, but declined. The in-
terior of the cabinet is so well drawn by Mr. Ad-
ams, that it may be best described in his own
words.*

" From Mr. Jefferson I went to one of the heads of depart-
ments, whom Mr. Washington had appointed, and I had no
thoughts of removing. Indeed I had then no objection to any
of the secretaries. I asked him what he thought of sending Mr.
Madison to France, with or without others ? Is it determined
to send to France at all ? Determined ? Nothing is determined
till it is executed, smiling. But why not ? — I thought it deserv-
ed consideration. — So it does ; but suppose it determined, what
do you think of sending Mr. Madison ? Is it determined to send
Mr. Madison ? No ; but it deserves consideration. Sending Mr.
Madison will make dire work among the passions of our parties
in congress, and out of doors, through the states ! Are we for-
ever to be overawed and directed by party passions ? All this
conversation on nay part was with the most perfect civility, good
humour, and indeed familiarity ; but I found it excited a pro-
found gloom and solemn countenance in my companion, which

* Correspondence of the late president Adams, p. 63.

152 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

after some time broke out in " Mr. President, we are willing to
resign." Nothing could have been more unexpected to me than
this observation. Nothing was further from my thoughts than
to give any pain or uneasiness. I had said nothing that could
possibly displease, except pronouncing the name of Madison. I
restrained my surprise, however, and only said, I hope nobody
will resign : I am satisfied with all the public officers.

Upon further enquiries of the other heads of departments, and
of other persons, I found that party passions had so deep and
extensive roots, that I seriously doubted whether the senate
would not negative Mr. Madison if I should name him. Rather
than expose him to a negative, or a doubtful contest in the
senate, I concluded to omit him. If I had nominated Madison,
I should have nominated Hamilton with him. The former, I
knew, was much esteemed in France ; the latter was rather an
object of jealousy. But I thought the French would tolerate
one for the sake of the other. And I thought too that the man-
ners of the one would soon wear off the prejudices against him,
and probably make him a greater favourite than the other. But
having given up Madison, I ought to give up Hamilton loo.
Who then should I name ? I mentioned Mr. Dana and Mr. Ger-
ry to the heads of departments and to many leading members in
both houses. They all preferred Mr. Dana. But it was evident
enough to me, that neither Dana nor Gerry was their man.
Dana was appointed, but refused. I then called the heads of
departments together, and proposed Mr. Gerry. All the five
voices unanimously were against him. Such inveterate preju-
dice shocked me. I said nothing, but was determined I would
not be the slave of it. I knew the man infinitely better than all
of them. He was nominated and approved, and finally saved
the peace of the nation; for he alone discovered and fimiished
the evidence that X. Y. and Z. were employed by Talleyrand ;
and he alone brought home the direct, formal and official as-
sux-ances upon which the subsequent commission proceeded, aud
peace was made."

The secretary of state has denied this statement
of the president. He says, " I have before stated,
that when Mr. Adams first proposed Mr. Gerry

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 153

for one of the envoys, the heads of departments
objected, and that Mr. Adams gave way and sub-
stituted chief justice Dana, of Massachusetts, but
on his declining, Mr. Adams recurred to Mr. Ger-
ry, and in a manner to preclude any further oppo-
sition. As to senators, I am perfectly persuaded
I never spoke to any one of them. We had en-
tire confidence in general Pinckney and general
Marshall, and only wished to save them from be-
ing embarrassed with a difficult and troublesome
associate, and such to their extreme vexation and
delay, Mr. Gerry proved to be."*

A difficult and troublesome associate any one
would be, whose views either of the foreign or
domestic relations of his country differed from a
majority of his colleagues. At the moment when
Mr. Gerry's name was proposed to the cabinet, he
held a rank in the councils of the country above
that, which had then been attained by either of
his colleagues, and the apprehension, if it truly
existed on the mind of the secretary, that he
would be a difficult and troublesome associate,
must have arisen from his belief that it would be
difficult to bend the integrity of his mind from the
principles he espoused, and troublesome to carry
negotiation to the point, which the secretary de-
sired, when a party to its progress had different
views of the interest of his country.

But the clamour, which the cabinet made against

* Tick. Review, p. 137.
VOL. II. 20

154 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the president's nomination, was more than com-
pensated by the confidence, which it gave to the
republican party.

From all quarters letters poured in upon Mr.
Gerry urging his acceptance, and placing the re-
sponsibility of a refusal on such grounds as left
him without the possibility of declining.

From the mass of these solicitous epistles, the
following, from the great leader and champion of
his party, is selected as well for the powerful
reasons, which it enumerates, as for the influence,
which it had in producing the acceptance, which it
urged.

MR. JEFFERSON TO MR. GERRY.

Philadelphia, June 21, 1797.

My Dear Friend,
It was with infinite joy to me that you were
yesterday announced to the senate as envoy ex-
traordinary, jointly with general Pinckney and
Mr. Marshall, to the French republic. It gave
me certain assurance that there would be a pre-
ponderance in the mission sincerely disposed to be
at peace with the French government and nation.
Peace is undoubtedly at present the first object of
our nation. Interest and honour are also national
considerations ; but interest, duly weighed, is in
favour of peace, even at the expense of spoliations
past and future ; and honour cannot now be an

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 155

object. The insults and injuries committed on us
by both the belligerent parties from the beginning
of 1793 to this day, and still continuing by both,
cannot now be wiped off by engaging in war with
one of them. As there is great reason to expect
this is the last campaign in Europe, it would cer-
tainly be better for us to rub through this year
as we have done through the four preceding ones,
and hope that on the restoration of peace we may
be able to establish some plan for our foreign con-
nexions more likely to secure our peace, interest
and honour in future. Our countrymen have di-
vided themselves by such strong affections to the
French and the English, that nothing will secure
us internally, but a divorce from both nations ; and
this must be the object of every real American,
and its attainment is practicable without much
self-denial ; but for this, peace is necessary. Be
assured of this, my dear sir, that if we engage in
a war during our present passions and our present
weakness in some quarters, that our union runs
the greatest risk of not coming out of that war in
the shape in which it enters it. My reliance for
our preservation is in your acceptance of this mis-
sion. I know the tender circumstances, which
will oppose themselves to it ; but its duration will
be short, and its reward long. You have it in your
power by accepting and determining the character
of the mission, to secure the present peace and
eternal union of your country. If you decline, on
motives of private pain, a substitute may be named

156 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

who has enlisted his passions in the present con-
test, and by the preponderance of his vote in the
mission, may entail on us calamities, your share
in which and your feelings will outweigh what-
ever pain or temporary absence from your family
could give you. The sacrifice will be short, the
remorse would be never ending. Let me then
my dear sir, conjure your acceptance, and that
you will by this act seal the mission with the con-
fidence of all parties. Your nomination has given
a spring to hope, which was dead before. I leave
this place in three days, and therefore shall not
here have the pleasure of learning your determin-
ation, but it will reach me in my retirement and
enrich the tranquillity of that scene. It will add
to the proofs, which have convinced me that the
man who loves his country on its own account,
and not merely for its trappings of interest or
power, can never be divorced from it ; can never
refuse to come forward when he finds that she is
engaged in dangers, which he has the means of
warding ofT. Make then an effort, my friend, to
renounce your domestic comforts for a few months,
and reflect that to be a good husband and a good
father, at this moment you must be also a good
citizen.

With sincere wishes for your acceptance and
success, I am with unalterable esteem, dear sir,
Your affectionate friend and servant,

Th. Jefferson.

Mr. Gerry.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 157

To the above may be added one from a gen-
tleman who, well known to be of the federal party,
was not considered of the conclave who formed
the majority of the cabinet.

MR. OTIS TO MR. GERRY.

Philadelphia, June 22, 1797.

Dear Sir,

It was with peculiar pleasure that I this day
certified the advice and consent of the senate to
your appointment, to be envoy extraordinary to
the republic of France, by a large and respectable
majority. I hope, however dear and amiable your
family and the great pleasures of domestic retire-
ment, you will once more step forward to the aid
of your country, whose independence and happi-
ness you have contributed, by great and unremit-
ted exertion, to achieve, against every considera-
tion that may suggest itself to your mind. You
will go under peculiar advantages, in perfect con-
fidence of both the great parties into which our
country is unhappily divided, and from long ex-
perience, acquainted with its general interests.

Selfish considerations do not preponderate in
your mind ; if however, you can serve your health,
which I am persuaded a sea voyage at this season
would do, and your country at the same time, both
pursuits are laudable. In the name of your many
good friends, and in conformity to my own incli-

158 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

nations to see you again in public life, I repeat my
solicitations that you would make an effort and
gratify as well as serve your country.

My best respects to Mrs. Gerry, and tell her I
expect her aid in doing away every objection that
may present itself to your acceptance of an hon-
ourable appointment, in this very critical state of
our public affairs.

With assurances of my best wishes and respects,

I have the honour to be, sir,

Your most humble servant,

Sam'l A. Otis.
The Hon. Elbridge Gerry.

Nothing could have been more unexpected to
Mr. Gerry than the appointment, which thus re-
quired him to enter again into public service. The
condition of his private affairs and the peculiar
situation of his family presented almost insuper-
able obstacles to the task assigned him. Yielding
however to the inducements, which Mr. Jefferson
had powerfully arrayed, at a sacrifice of personal
feeling, which it would be difficult to describe, and
an abandonment of private interest, which never
afterwards was repaired, Mr. Gerry embarked for
Europe on the 9th August, 1797.

The American envoys arrived at Paris at a pe-
riod peculiarly inauspicious to their views.* They

* The state of society was not exactly that, which an Ameri-
can would have preferred. In a familiar letter to one of his fa-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY- 159

found the republic elated by conquests, and tri-
umphing as well in its policy as its arms. The
military strength of Europe, which originally
threatened the destruction of the new nation, was
scattered and overthrown. " The conspiracy of
kings," to destroy the principles of liberty was
annihilated, and her victorious troops released from
the discouraging duty of defending her own terri-
tories, had engaged in a war of conquest, whose
glory surpassed the proudest periods of her power.

Spain, Portugal, Holland had successively yield-
ed to her arms. Italy was conquered. Rome
submitted its pontifical pride to her dictation.
Germany, by the treaty of Campo Formio, was
under her control. Vienna and Venice had seen
her flag wave in triumph on their walls. A million
bayonets, directed by military genius as original
as astonishing, were ready to extend her conquests
to the limits of the world.

Nor were the interior affairs of the republic cal-
culated to encourage in her government a less
haughty spirit or a less offensive demeanour.

mily, Mr. Gerry says, "The morning after my arrival I was wait-
ed on by the musicians of the executive, and the succeeding
morning by a deputation of Poissards or fishwomen for presents.
Major Rutledge was kind enough to negotiate for me, by which
means T avoided the kind caresses of the ladies, and an interview
with the gentlemen. They expected fifteen or twenty guineas,
which each of us, according to custom was obliged to give them.
"When the ladies get sight of a minisier, as they did of my col-
leagues, they smother them with their delicate kisses ! So much
for the dignity of the corps diplomatique. MS. letter, 9th Octo-
ber 1797.

160 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The power of the directory had just been con-
firmed by the revolution of 18th Fructidor [4th
Sept. 1797] and an authority, nominally that of the
people, but in truth of the army, had escaped from
the danger of dissolution by the boldness of its
councils, and perpetuated itself by disregarding the
constitution to which it owed its existence.

The executive directory had overcome its ene-
mies, and amid excesses of all kinds contrived to
retain the favour of the people. It now wielded
the military force of the nation, and felt all the
pride and importance, which could be derived from
this vast array of influence and power.

A second negotiation with England, conducted
with lord Malmsbury by the ministers of the direc-
tory, had been broken off, having exhibited the
obstinacy and the haughtiness of the parties rather
than any sincere desire for peace. To the French
nation therefore only one enemy remained, and
upon that enemy the force and the indignation of
the whole population was about to be concentred.

" Although," say the directory, " so much has
been done, so many kings conquered, so many
people set free, and the republic itself established
by the valour of its armies, yet the country ex-
pected one more sacrifice, since that enemy, who
had been the original cause of all the horrors and
miseries they had suffered, both from foreign and
civil war, remained to be crushed. The safety of

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 161

the republic is endangered whilst the English
government exists.*

Bonaparte, after concluding a treaty with the
emperor, so astonishingly favourable to France,
that it has been supposed to have added an entire
fifth to her ample military means, was himself
ready to take command of the force, which the
haughtiness of the republic destined to achieve the
last of its labours. The success of this effort,
which was to complete the conquest of the world,
was not more the subject of national exertion than
popular enthusiasm. The feelings of the commu-
nity were excited by past success to a species of
madness in this great effort of aggrandizement, and
with an ardour characteristic of the country, already
anticipated their complete success.

It was true indeed, that the naval strength of
the mistress of the ocean gave some opposi-
tion to efforts, which must be made within her
reach, and that the resources at her command
were well arranged to protract the period of her
overthrow ; but however these incidents might
affect the rulers of France, they had apparently
little force on the minds of the people, and seem-
ed principally operative in accumulating such mag-
nificence of force as would look down opposition.

The popular belief was that England was on the
point of revolution ; that oppressed by a ruinous

* Proclamation of the Directory, Nov. 1797.
VOL. II. 21

163 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

debt, and borne down by unequalled taxation, the
nation was already more than half conquered, and
that the appearance of a formidable force, under
which the disaffected could rally without fear,
would almost without a blow complete the tri-
umph of the invaders.

If the difficulties of the extravagant enterprise
were better known to the directory and its gene-
rals, somewhat of a similar delusion prevailed over
even the soundness of their judgment. That a
powerful internal opposition existed in Great Bri-
tain was beyond doubt ; how far it would aid an
invading enemy was a matter of speculation. De-
luded by their success on the continent, and cal-
culating on their arts as well as arms, the gov-
ernment of France did not permit themselves to
doubt, that when the flag of the republic should be
fairly planted on the British shore, it would be
hailed as the standard of liberty, a signal for the
demolition of the monarchy and the dissolution of
the government.

With feelings of ancient hostility and rivalship
were mingled something of resentment and indig-
nation at the obstacles, which delayed their anti-
cipated triumph. They looked to the destruction
of this last enemy as an event certainly to happen,
but protracted by circumstances vexatious indeed
but not formidable, which while they delayed the
gratification, served only to sharpen the eager spirit
of revenge.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 163

It could not facilitate the objects of the Ameri-
can embassy, that the principal cause of complaint
against the nation it represented, was an imputed
attachment to the great enemy of the republic,
with whom it had recently by treaty drawn
closer the ties of alliance and friendship, and that
an identity of principles and interest had grown up
between them, which it was the policy of the
republic to discredit and condemn.

In the character of the individuals composing
the French government, the American ambassa-
dors found no cause for greater satisfaction. The
recent revolution had deposed Carnot and Bar-
thelemi. To Barras, Reubel and Lepaux were ad-
ded Neufchateau and Merlin, the latter more than
suspected of having a direct interest in the captures
made by French privateers on the American com-
merce. None of them were distinguished for
talent or respected for public services. They col-
lectively supported their little less than imperial
station, by a courage that nothing could intimi-
date, and a ready disposition to disregard for per-
sonal aggrandizement any restraints, which honour
or justice would ordinarily have power to impose.

As secretary for foreign affairs, Talleyrand, now
known as well for the versatility and greatness of
his genius as for the profligacy of his character
and the successful hypocrisy of his life, contrived
to exercise an almost unlimited authority, without
being able to obtain confidence ; suiting himself

164 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

exactly to the exigencies of the government by the
powers of his intellect and the flexibility of his
principles.

At such a period of triumph, of confidence and
hope, before men who limited their ambition nei-
ther by precedent nor virtue, the envoys of the
American government presented themselves at
Paris. They came, it was well known, to com-
plain, to remonstrate, to demand redress. They
came to unfold the unfriendly disposition of the
French government towards the only people who
had established free institutions upon popular prin-
ciples, and had demonstrated the practicability of
the system, which the French nation professed to
support ; and they came to add to their representa-
tion of wrongs they were suffering, their grief at
the inconsistency of a policy, which alienated from
the only republic in Europe the only other republic
in the world. They came too, with the character
and the feelings of the representatives of a free
people, proud of the independence of their coun-
try, undismayed by the general overthrow of kings
and the revolution of empires, to urge before the
gigantic victors of Europe the rights of justice in
the language of equality.

It might have been foreseen that such an em-
bassy would be received with coldness, and sub-
jected to such inconveniences as the course of
diplomacy can readily present ; but it was hardly
to have been anticipated that an extraordinary and

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 165

important delegation of unusual dignity of charac-
ter, as well in the forms by which it was instituted
as by the number and respectability of the indi-
viduals composing it, would have been obliged to
remain six months in the capital of a nation, nomi-
nally at peace with their country, not merely un-
accredited but exposed to personal and official
mortifications of the most humiliating kind ; and
finally to return, not only without affecting the
object of their mission, but without the common
courtesy of an official discussion of it.

To aggravate the evils incident to so painful a
situation, an unfortunate and serious misunder-
standing, the common accident of joint missions,
arose between the envoys themselves, the blame
of which, although the high and honourable dis-
tinctions subsequently bestowed by their country
on the individuals concerned, may be considered
as exculpating each of them successively, fell at
the time principally upon one.

To place the conduct of the envoys in a proper
light, the history of the mission will be distinctly
stated and such remarks will be added as are due
to the individual, whose share in it gives occasion
to its being mentioned in this place.

A brief retrospect of events, previous to this
extraordinary mission to France, is necessary to a
correct estimate of American policy.

The commencement of the French revolution
found the American people ardently and univer-

166 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

sally interested in its success. Grateful for the
aid accorded to them in their own struggle, they
joyfully beheld the blessings of freedom dawning
upon France. Proud of their own liberty, it was
natural for them to believe that no political society
could admit of more desirable advantages. In
their feelings for the prosperity of republican
France there was an enthusiasm proportioned to
the sublimity of the scene it presented.

A chivalrous and gallant people had for ages
been bound in the fetters of despotism. They
now broke their chains and were free. The first
impulse to this noble act was derived from Ame-
rica. They who had been to the rest of the civil-
ized world a model of intellectual character and
learning and taste, envied for their wealth, power
and renown, whose glory for ten centuries had
thrown its dazzling rays over the history of man-
kind, and whose arts and arms had divided the
empire of the world, condescended to receive from
this young nation the most valuable jewel within
their ancient domain. America had borrowed from
France her power and wealth to establish the foun-
dations of her empire, but she repaid the vast
obligation with more than an equivalent, in giving
to France the principles of civil liberty, and in-
structing her in the knowledge that freedom was
the first requisite for public happiness.

Pride, sympathy, gratitude, principle, all com-
bined to make the French revolution not merely

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 167

popular in the United States, but ardently and
enthusiastically supported by the American people.
For a long period after its commencement there
was probably nothing short of their own indepen-
dence for which they felt a more zealous concern.
The interest, which was excited for the prosperity
of their ancient allies was increased by those still
unsettled feelings of animosity, which survived
towards their former foe. There were resent-
ments not allayed, recollections of past injuries
not effaced, mournful memorials of the calamities
of war every where to be seen through the coun-
try, which enlisted their inclinations as strongly
against one party as more generous sentiments
excited them in favour of the other, and led them
to see in the measures of the English government
against France, only that enmity to freedom, which
had been manifested toward themselves.

The first check to that exaggerated gratitude,
which was rapidly hurrying the United States into
war, was the proclamation of neutrality issued by
president Washington on the 22d day of April
1793.

That cautious and intelligent statesman, and
the profound councillors of his cabinet, well knew
that the primary duty of the American people was
to preserve their own yet unsettled institutions.
They knew the United States were in no condi-
tion for another war. A government yet untried
by experience, and depending for its permanency

168 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

on the success of its first operations, would most
unwisely hazard the chances of a new contest.
The elastic spirit of a young people, it was seen,
was beginning to throw off the evils of their re-
cent condition, to refill their exhausted treasury,
to diminish their public debt, to revive their de-
cayed commerce, and to reanimate their natural
enterprise. For these desirable objects a few
years of peace were indispensable, and the first
measure of that wisdom, which then guided the
affairs of the nation, was to counteract the incli-
nations of the people, until their calmer judgment
applauded the restraint.

Peace with both the belligerents and the ad-
vantage of a neutral attitude, which could profit
by their sacrifices, became the pole star of the
American government, and however difficult the
navigation, however dangerous the adverse winds
and counter currents of the voyage, it was by this
direction that policy commanded them to steer.

The vast objects, which the United States
had to accomplish, the immense, and but that
they have been realized, the incredible advanta-
ges of a neutral character, were not more obvi-
ous to her government than, it was seen by the
belligerents respectively, would be to them an
opposite course. Against the machinations and
violence of both of them, and the prejudice and
passion of their own citizens, this desirable posi-
tion was to be maintained by the American gov-
ernment.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 169

Circumstances of exceeding delicacy and diffi-
culty were constantly occurring, which might lead
immediately to war. The rulers of France early
conceived an opinion that there was a necessa-
ry opposition between the people and their gov-
ernment ; or at least that this was universally
true except only in France. The course of their
policy as well as arms alarmed many of the most
intelligent of the American patriots, and the
predictions and warnings, which Edmund Burke
sounded in Europe, found among the reflecting
statesmen in the western hemisphere many res-
ponsive hearts.

The mission of Mr. Genet, the whole of whose
extravagant diplomacy in this country might be
recounted in proof, alarmed still more the appre-
hensions of impartial men, who saw that a popular
attachment to his country and its cause superseded
the regard that should have been paid to the one
which he visited, and that on questions of national
jurisdiction, about which intelligent men could not
differ, a strong feeling often carried by acclama-
tion his opinions against those of the government.

While the conduct of the minister of France
evidently displayed a determination to appeal from
the government to the people of the United States,
and seduce their affections into a war, which their
judgment would not sanction, a measure of his
country gave some appearance of interest to the
object of his wishes. The ports of the French

vol. ii. 22

170 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

colonies were thrown open to American commerce,
and the " hasty credulity" of mercantile enter-
prise, lost no time to improve the gainful opportu-
nity. Whether the motive for this act was to
secure a commerce to their own subjects in neu-
tral bottoms, which their scanty marine could not
carry on, or more artfully to draw the enemies
cruisers on the rich freights that would be present-
ed to their cupidity, and thus contrast an admira-
tion for their own generosity with indignation at
their enemies rapacity ; or whether it was in truth
the evidence of that friendly spirit, which repub-
lics should feel for each other, was at the time a
subject of discussion, but it was at singular vari-
ance with an order of the national convention,
which allowed French ships to bring in for adju-
dication such neutral vessels as were loaded in
whole or in part, either with provisions destined
for enemy ports, or, merchandise belonging to
enemies.

Threats that were unexecuted, whether from
inability or good will, had much less effect on the
public mind than a liberality, which could be un-
derstood, and in contrast with the colonial system
of other nations the free trade to French colo-
nies was highly appreciated. The denunciations
of their decrees were hardly felt, but the mercan-
tile advantages, in those instances which escaped
the hostility of their enemy, were fully possessed.
While therefore influential and leading men in and

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 171

out of the government of the United States began
to find in the revolution, as it was proceeding in
France, principles destructive of liberty and law,
private property, personal security and moral con-
duct, the general feeling of the public mind
cemented still stronger the original attachment,
and by dividing more distinctly its admirers and
its enemies increased that internal hostility, which
threatened the peace of the nation.

So long as the measures of France tended even
against the exertions of intelligent men, to bring
the two countries into a connexion of a more in-
timate character, her great enemy, regardless of
national law or the obligations of the existing
treaty, was accumulating subjects of complaint,
and indemnifying herself for the loss of popular
favour by extensive devastations on the commerce
of the United States.

An order of council, which when intrusted to
her powerful navy was no dead letter in the sta-
tute book, authorized British cruisers to stop all
vessels loaded wholly or in part with provisions,
bound to any port in France or occupied by the
armies of France. This insane attempt to starve
a whole people, which with as much insult as in-
justice, was justified by cited aphorisms from po-
litical writers, was enforced by the indiscriminate
destruction of neutral property, which it swept as
with a whirlwind from the ocean. Nor did even
the profligacy of the pretence, which was given for

172 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

it, secure credit to the grounds upon which it was
defended. In America it was believed to be part
of a plan for the subversion of free governments,
and to have been started at a time when partial
successes and the strength of the coalition gave
some expectation that France would be over-
thrown. The vexatious practice of impressment
added new fuel to the flame of popular animosity.
The detention of the western posts in direct vio-
lation of the treaty of 1783, though justified as a
retaliation for deficiencies on the part of the
United States in the execution of the same com-
pact, was regarded as a voluntary addition to the
miseries of an Indian war, which it was supposed
to encourage if not excite, while the whole system
of the English navigation laws was complained
of as intentionally severe and ruinous to the com-
merce of the United States.

Other instances of injustice and wrong in the
conduct of the belligerents seemed to demonstrate
that in their efforts for mutual injury, no sentiment
of justice was felt for neutral rights ; and while
each, by every possible art, was endeavouring to
force the United States into a war with the other,
the taunting intimation of one of them was in
train to be realized, that a nation, which would not
fight for honour would be obliged to contend for
existence.

But high and chivalrous principles better suited
the spirit of the people than the condition of the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 173

country. They were adapted to an athletic and
robust nation rather than one whose strength was
yet in the gristle. If the policy of peace must be
abandoned it would be well in selecting an enemy
to make sure of a friend.

On the selection of that friend the people of
the United States were greatly divided, while the
strength of the popular feeling was not exactly re-
echoed by the public functionaries. The French
government, amid all its acts of injustice and inju-
ry, affected to speak with the United States as
friends. In the glowing language, which marked
their official despatches, they say, " An analogy
of political principles ; the natural relations of com-
merce and industry; the efforts and immense sacri-
fices of both nations in the defence of liberty and
equality ; the blood, which they have spilled to-
gether ; their avowed hatred for despots ; the mo-
deration of their political views ; the disinterest-
edness of their councils ; and especially the suc-
cess of the vows they have made in presence of
the Supreme Being to be free or die, all combine
to render indestructible the connexions, which they
have formed."

" Doubt it not citizens, we shall finally destroy
the combination of tyrants ; you, by the picture of
prosperity, which in your vast countries has suc-
ceeded to a bloody struggle of eight years ; we by
that enthusiasm, which glows in the breast of every
Frenchman. Astonished nations, too long the

174 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

dupes of perfidious kings, nobles and priests, will
eventually recover their rights, and the human
race will owe to the American and French nations
their regeneration and a lasting peace."

It was this very " analogy of political princi-
ples," so captivating to the nation at large, that
alarmed the minds of the administration and in-
duced them to put obstacles in the way of a more
intimate fraternization. The British government,
on the contrary, which " wounds by its pride and
offends by its haughtiness,"* while the objects it
was contending for were more congenial to na-
tional security, so far from affecting in its diplo-
matic intercourse to secure popular favour, allow-
ed eighteen months to expire without deigning to
give an answer to an elaborate and profound argu-
ment made by the American secretary of statet in
complaint of the conduct and principles of the
government of Great Britain towards the United
States.

As a last effort to prevent a war, into which cir-
cumstances were rapidly hurrying the country, a
special mission, on 16th April 1794, was insti-
tuted to the court of St. James, and intrusted to
a citizen eminently distinguished in the annals of
the country, and then holding the high office of
chief justice of the United States. At the request

* Marshall, vol. v. p. 481.

f American state papers, Mr. Jefferson to Mr. Hammond,
29th May 1792. Mr. Hammond to Mr. Randolph, 21st February
1794.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 175

of the French government Mr. Morris was recall-
ed from the republic and the diplomatic inter-
course confided to Mr. Monroe.

The alarm, which the unexpected nomination of
Mr. Jay produced on one half of the population of
the United States, was in some degree quieted by
the appointment that followed to the government
of France. The duties and objects of the first
were not distinctly known, but the selection of the
other was received by the party of the republicans
as evidence of the president's impartiality ; and as
each of those ministers was known to carry to the
court, to which he was sent, sentiments that were
not likely to obstruct an amicable arrangement,
there was a calm over the public mind, a prelude to
the storms that were soon to confound it, when
the results of these missions should be announced.

Mr. Jay, as is well known, concluded the treaty
of London, which on its ratification terminated all
existing causes of controversy with Great Britain,
and arranged a new system of commercial inter-
course. Mr. Monroe was recalled by the presi-
dent, not without some marks of dissatisfaction,
which his candid disclosures easily dispelled.*

The negotiation of any treaty with England,
would no doubt have increased the difficulties of
pacification with France. But in regard to this
she complained that her faith had been abused by

* Monroe's View, &c.

17G LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY.

misrepresentations and concealment, and her rights
violated by sacrifices and concessions.

The instructions under which Mr. Monroe act-
ed were drawn in conformity to his well known
political principles, in which no member of the
senate had given more evidence of sincerity or
zeal. He was instructed to declare " that the pre-
sident had been an early and decided friend of
the French republic ; that whatever reason there
may have been under our ignorance of facts and
policy to suspend an opinion upon some of its im-
portant transactions, yet that he was immutable in
his wishes for its accomplishment, incapable of
assenting to the right of any foreign prince to
meddle with its interior arrangement, and per-
suaded that success would attend its efforts." He
was directed to let it be seen " that in case of war
with any nation on earth, we shall consider France
as our first and natural ally, to dwell upon the
sense we entertain of their past services and their
more recent interposition in our behalf with the
Dey of Algiers," and alluding to Mr. Jay's mis-
sion to England, he was instructed to declare the
motives of that mission to be to obtain immediate
restitution for our plundered property and restitu-
tion of the [western] posts.

The sentiments of the executive thus commu-
nicated to Mr. Monroe, were repeated in stronger
language by the two houses of Congress. The
revolution was emphatically declared to be the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 177

cause of liberty, " under that standard whenever
it shall be displayed, the affections of the United
States will always rally ; the successes of those
who stand forth as her avengers will be gloried in
by the United States, and will be felt as the suc-
cesses of themselves and the other friends of hu-
manity. Yes — representatives of our ally, your
communication has been addressed to those who
take a deep interest in the prosperity and happi-
ness of the French Republic."

With such instructions from one department of
the government, and a knowledge of such senti-
ments in the other, Mr. Monroe presented himself
to the rulers of France. His reception was bril-
liant and flattering, and the conduct, which he
pursued, and the language, which he used, was too
faithful to his own principles to raise a doubt that
all this profusion of attachment covered any thing
deceptive.

The condition of things in France was not with-
out uneasiness. The treaty between the two re-
publics had been violated. The commerce of the
United States was harassed and plundered. The
minister, whom Mr. Monroe succeeded, was not
only without the confidence of the government,
but an object of particular jealousy and suspicion.
The popular favour towards the United States was
diminishing by means of reports brought by offi-
cers of the fleet of unfriendly treatment in Ameri-
can ports, and a suspicion was entertained that
vol. n. 23

178 LIFE OF ELBRIDCE GERRY.

the mission of Mr. Jay was intended to pave the
way for an abandonment of the one people and an
alliance with the other.

By declarations, the authority for which were
found in his instructions, and with a zeal, which
had been announced to him as the motive for his
selection to the embassy,* the American minister
succeeded in putting affairs in good order, and
began to accommodate arrangements to his satis-
faction, when the treaty negotiated with England
was communicated to the directory, and produced
as was to have been supposed resentment and in-
dignation.

The fact that a commercial treaty had been ne-
gotiated with their rival, that some of its features
were in themselves objectionable and injurious,
that no overtures had been made to France for the
same objects, that not only entire secrecy had been
observed as to the pendency of the negotiation,
but that the objects and powers of the minister
had been misrepresented or concealed, produced
on the haughty victors of a thousand enemies, not
less the feelings of indignation than the less toler-
able expression of disgust and contempt.

While the cause of the United States thus
lost its popularity in the eye of the government

* Mr. Monroe was informed that he was selected " on account
of his known political character and principles." In the Senate
of the United States he had moved to suspend the fourth article
of the treaty of peace with Great Britain, of 1763.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 179

of France, with singular adroitness it saw fit to
discriminate between the administration and its
minister, whom it exonerated from the suspi-
cion even of intentional deception. Falling in
with the declarations of the party in the United
States to which he belonged, and adopting the
language of its public journals, the directory chose
to consider the American minister as much de-
ceived as themselves. Craftily pursuing their de-
sign to separate the people from the government,
they affected to believe that this treaty was an-
other evidence of the combination of rulers against
the defenders of the rights of man.

The sensibility of the French government was
not realized by that of the United States. Be-
lieving as they declared, that an independent na-
tion might conduct its diplomacy without the ad-
vice or permission of other powers, and that in the
treaty with England they had exercised only their
unquestionable rights, they did not admit that
France had any just cause of complaint ; and hav-
ing secured by it so much of their cardinal policy
as preserved peace with one of the belligerents,
an attempt was to be made to complete the desir-
able object by a new effort with the other.

Mr. Monroe was recalled, and Charles C. Pinck-
ney of South Carolina, appointed to succeed him.

If the causes for Mr. Monroe's selection were
complimentary to France or useful to his own
country, the want of similar qualifications in his

180 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

successor, denoted either a diminution of that
civility or an opinion that it did not produce its
expected consequences. In the domestic parties
of the country these gentlemen were under differ-
ent banners.

Mr. Monroe's departure from the French capital
was as brilliant as his reception. An audience of
leave was accorded to him, and in answer to his
address the most flattering testimonials of respect
was bestowed upon him by the president director.
Unfortunately the speech of B arras on that occa-
sion, and the commentary made on it by the ex-
ecutive of the United States, gave new occasion
for umbrage and increased the difficulties in the
way of amicable accommodation.*

* Speech of the president director Barras.

" By presenting to day the letters of recall to the executive di-
rectory, you gave to Europe a very strange spectacle.

France rich in her liberty, surrounded by a train of victories,
strong in the esteem of her allies, will not abase herself by cal-
culating the consequences of the condescension of the American
government to the suggestions of her former tyrants. Moreover
the French republic hopes that the successors of Columbus, Ra-
leigh and Penn, always proud of liberty, will never forget that
they owe it to France. They will weigh in their wisdom the
magnanimous benevolence of the French people with the crafty
caresses of certain perfidious persons who meditate bringing them
back to their former slavery. Assure the good American people
sir, that like them we adore liberty, that they will always have
our esteem, and that they will find in the French people repub-
lican generosity, which knows how to grant peace as it does to
cause its sovereignty to be respected. As for you, Mr. minister
plenipotentiary, you have combatted for principles. You have

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 181

The recall of Mr. Monroe was followed by the
refusal of the directory to receive Mr. Pinckney,
and a declaration " that they would no longer re-
cognise or receive a minister plenipotentiary from
the United States, until after the reparation of the
grievances demanded of the American government,
which the French republic has a right to expect."

In the preceding November, the French minis-
ter in the United States announced the termina-
tion of his functions, and in an address nominally
to the secretary of state, but in reality to the peo-

known the true interests of your country. Depart with our re-
gret. In you we give up a representative to America, and retain
the remembrance of the citizen whose personal qualities did
honour to that title."

Speech of president Adams.

" With this conduct of the French government, it will be pro-
per to take into view the public audience given to the late min-
ister of the United States on his taking leave of the executive
directory. The speech of the president discloses sentiments
more alarming than the refusal of a minister because more dan-
gerous to our independence and union, and at the same time
studiously marked with indignities towards the government of
the United States. It evinces a disposition to separate the people
of the United States from the government ; to persuade them
that they have different affections, principles and interests, from
those of their fellow citizens whom they themselves have chosen
to manage their common concerns, and thus to produce divisions
fatal to our peace. Such attempts ought to be repelled with a
decision that shall convince France and the world that we are
not a degraded people, humiliated under a colonial spirit of fear
and sense of inferiority, fitted to be the miserable instruments of
foreign influence, and regardless of national honour, character
and interest."

182 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

pie, encouraged the idea, which seemed to be the
leading principle of his country's policy, that the
functionaries of the American government and the
party who supported them entertained principles
and feelings hostile to the French cause, and were
desirous, notwithstanding all their pretensions to
the contrary, to involve the two nations in war.

The irritable state of feeling, which existed be-
tween the countries, the belief, which a large party
in the United States honestly professed, that in
the conduct of affairs with the French republic
the government of the United States had been
unwise and insincere, and the use, which that na-
tion made of this division of opinion to embarrass
the American government, were if no other causes
existed, formidable obstacles to a continuance of
peace. But the collisions of interest or force had
accumulated a vast mass of serious complaint.

On the part of France it was alleged that the
treaty of Paris was infringed because prizes made
by French vessels of war were not allowed to be
adjudicated upon in American ports by the consular
agents of the republic.

That English vessels of war, which had made
prizes on the republic or its citizens were not ex-
cluded from the ports of the United States, as by
the 17th article of the same treaty they should
have been.

That the consular convention had become illu-
sory from the obstacles thrown in the way of its
execution by the American government.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 183

That an attack had been made by a British ves-
sel of war on a public vessel of France within the
waters of the United States with intention to seize
the person and papers of the French minister to
the United States, supposed to have been on board,
and that this gross invasion of the sovereignty of
the United States so injurious to France had been
passed over with impunity.

But all other causes of complaint lost their im-
portance in comparison with those, which were
connected with the late treaty of London.

"The United States," said the French minister,
" besides having departed from the principles of
the armed neutrality during the war for their in-
dependence, have given to England to the detri-
ment of their first allies, the most striking marks
of an unbounded condescension by abandoning the
limit given to contraband by the law of nations,
by their treaties with all other nations, and even
by those of England, with a greater part of the
maritime powers. Is it not evidently estraying
from the principles of neutrality to sacrifice exclu-
sively to that power the objects proper for the
equipment and construction of vessels ? They
have gone further. They have consented to ex-
tend the denomination of contraband even to pro-
visions."*

* Such answers as the American government could give to
these complaints were ably stated in the letters of Mr. Monroe
to the French minister. The administration by recalling him
intimated to the American people that the displeasure of France

184 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

On the other side of this account current of in-
justice and wrong, the Americans presented the
frightful system of hostility, which under one or
another decree of the national convention let loose
on their defenceless commerce the whole French
marine, and the profligacy and notorious corrup-
tion of their judicial tribunals, which consumma-
ted by chicanery and fraud what rapacity and pira-
cy even had subdued.

A distressing embargo had been laid on their
property and seamen at Bordeaux.

Bills and other evidence of debt, given by the
colonial government in the West Indies, were un-
paid and merchandise taken for public use was ap-
propriated without compensation.

To all this was added the alleged attempt to sow
distrust and division between the government and
people, and to destroy by their arts what escaped
the power of their arms.

In a review of these discouraging circumstan-
ces, Mr. Adams determined " to institute a fresh
attempt at negotiation ;" certain if it succeeded,
to secure a most favourable position for his country,
and confident if it failed through the obstinacy or

was owing less to the existence of good cause than to his neglect
in not making satisfactory explanations. The publication of his
correspondence restored him to the favour of his country, by
completely disapproving the suggestion, and the secretary of
state did not escape the odium of that intentional duplicity, which
charged on an agent of the government the consequences justly
attributable to the government itself.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 185

wilfulness of France, to draw to his standard that
great body of his fellow citizens, who though
opprobriously stigmatized in his cabinet, he well
knew to be Americans at heart.

It was probably beyond the range of intelligence
or ingenuity to carry on negotiations with each
belligerent in a manner that would subserve the
real interests of the United States, without giving
plausible if not substantial cause of complaint to
one or both. The executive might indeed have
selected its ally and bid its will avouch it, but
policy adopted a different language.

Yet I must not

For certain friends that are both his and mine,
Whose loves I may not drop.

When therefore the determination was settled
to make the first experiment with Great Britain,
the delicacy of the relation to France became
every day more attenuated.

The departure of Mr. Jay for the court of St.
James was a public act, which as it could not be
concealed, it was obviously politic to announce
with the appearance of candour, but the very com-
munication of this fact gave new cause for disa-
greement. The French minister, Mr. Fauchet,
insisted that he was told the mission contemplated
only an adjustment of our (American) complaints,
excluding all commercial arrangements. The sec-
retary denied that he said more than to assure

vol. ii. 24

186 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

him, " Mr. Jay was instructed not to weaken our
engagements with France."

It is not now necessary to discuss the question
whether a commercial treaty with England would
not ipso facto weaken our engagements with
France ; nor whether the stipulations in the treaty
of London could be executed without such conse-
quence ; or however these might be, whether
when a minister had been directed to negotiate
a commercial treaty, the admitted language of the
secretary was any thing else than equivocation, to
conceal the real design.

The intimacy of the connexion between France
and the United States, if weakened by recent
causes of complaint, treaties and popular feeling
still supposed to exist; and it therefore required, in
the opinion of the former, as evidence of the sin-
cerity of the latter, that a frank and full disclo-
sure of its intentions should be made ; and some
countenance is undesignedly given to this expecta-
tion by the fact, that before the conclusion of the
treaty a communication of some kind was made to
the French minister, and before its ratification the
treaty was submitted to him for his commentaries
and opinion.

France thereupon complains, " It was a little
matter only to allow the English to avail them-
selves of the advantages of our treaty, it was ne-
cessary to assure these to them by the means of a
contract, which might serve at once as a reply to

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 187

the claims of France and as peremptory motives
for refusals, the true motive of which it was re-
quisite incessantly to disguise to her under spe-
cious pretexts. Such was the object of Mr. Jay's
mission to London, such was the object of a ne-
gotiation enveloped from its origin in the shadow
of mystery and covered with the veil of dissimu-
lation."*

The American answer maintains that the right
to form these treaties has been so universally
asserted and admitted that it seems to be the in-
separable attribute of sovereignty, to be question-
ed only by those who question the right of a
nation to govern itself, and to be ceded only by
those who are prepared to cede their independence.

The complaint as to what should not be done in
a specific case is thus answered by an allegation
of abstract right. Hence the replication of the
French minister in very strong terms. " When
the agents of the republic complained of this mys-
terious conduct, they were answered by an appeal
to the independence of the United States, solemnly
sanctioned in the treaties of 1778 — a strange
manner of contesting a grievance, the reality of
which was demonstrated by the dissimulation, to
which recourse was had — an insidious subterfuge,
which substitutes for the true point of the ques-
tion a general principle, which the republic can-

* Mons. Adet to secretary of state.

188 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

not be supposed to dispute, and which destroys by
aid of a sophism that intimate confidence, which
ought to exist between two allies, and which
above all ought to exist between the French re-
public and the United States."

Again the French government complained of the
abusive language of certain public journals of the
United States, and were answered with the abstract
propositions that " the genius of the constitution
and the opinion of the people of the United States
cannot be overruled by those who administer the
government," and " that among those deemed
most sacred is the liberty of the press."

Now the real subject of complaint was not that
the administration did not put down these offen-
sive journals by force of law, but that they were
known to encourage them by personal patronage,
and thus under colour of a professed inability to
control the public press, aided and abetted its con-
ductors in disseminating opinions injurious to the
cause of France.

The French minister further commenting on the
insincerity of the American government, alleges
that it was thought proper to send to the French
republic persons whose opinions and connexions
are too well known to hope from them dispositions
sincerely conciliatory, and contrasts that conduct
with the eagerness to send to London ministers
well known for sentiments corresponding with the
object of their mission.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 189

Stripped of the thin veil, which diplomatic
forms throw on this subject, the French minister
asserts, " The people of the United States are
divided into two great parties, differing in their
views of the correct policy of the country. One
of these is desirous of a more intimate union with
England, the other with France. In negotiations
with the former power the compliment of select-
ing negotiators from the party, which deemed its
duty to the United States to consist in friendship
with England, was paid to her, and the conse-
quence was successful negotiation. No such com-
pliment is paid to France and no such consequence
can ensue."

The Americans could only reaffirm their concili-
atory temper without denying the facts, from
which a different conclusion had been drawn.

190 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER VI.

History of the joint mission of Messrs. Pinckney, Marshall and

Gerry, to the French republic Messrs. Marshall and Pinckney

leave Frvtnce.......Mr. Gerry remains His conduet.

The American envoys met in Paris on the 4th
October 1797, and the next day announced their
arrival to the minister of foreign affairs, assuring
him that the United States were desirous of ter-
minating all differences between themselves and
the French republic, and of restoring that harmony
and good understanding, and that commercial and
friendly intercourse, which from the commence-
ment of their political existence until lately had
happily subsisted ; and that the president had ap-
pointed them jointly and severally envoys extraor-
dinary and ministers plenipotentiary to the French
republic, for the purpose of accomplishing these
great objects. They requested an opportunity to
present their letter of credence, and assured him
of their ardent desire for the speedy restoration of
harmony and friendship between the two repub-
lics.

On the 8th the envoys had an interview with
the minister of foreign relations. The letter of
credence was delivered and cards of hospitality
received. They were informed that " the direc-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 191

tory had directed the minister to make a report
relative to the situation of the United States with
regard to France, which would be finished in a
few days, when he would let them know what
steps were to follow."

In a day or two the private and confidential
secretary of the minister intimated to the private
secretary of one of the envoys, that the directory
were exasperated at some parts of the president's
speech at the opening of the last session of con-
gress, and would require an explanation ; that the
envoys would probably not have a public audience
until their negotiation was finished, that persons
might be appointed to treat with them, who would
report to the minister, and he would have the di-
rection, though not actually the conducting of the
negotiations.

This communication, circuitous and informal
enough, paved the way for subsequent measures
equally singular and extraordinary.

A gentleman of respectability privately inform-
ed general Pinckney, that another person whom
he could introduce, would suggest a plan for ac-
commodation at the instance of Mons. Talleyrand,
which if proposed to him by the American envoys,
would undoubtedly facilitate negotiations.

After much unofficial parade and affectation of
secrecy, the envoys, who found no authorized and
ostensible agent of the republic to discourse with,
were introduced to these anonymous personages.

192 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The substance of the propositions thereupon sub-
mitted to them was, that the envoys should pro-
pose to give a softening turn to some parts of the
president's speech, should advance under cover of
a masked loan some millions of dollars for the
French treasury, and in addition to this substan-
tial part of the treaty, should " address themselves
to the private gratification of certain high officers
of government, by compliance with diplomatic
usage," which being interpreted was understood
to mean, supply a fund of fifty thousand pounds
sterling for distribution to prominent individuals.
To induce the envoys as of their own accord to
make these propositions, the haughty temper and ir-
ritable feeling of the directory towards the United
States were adverted to, and the friendly exertion
of Mons. Talleyrand under such a stimulus, was
promised in their behalf; an exertion, which his
late successful diplomacy with the emperor, it was
said, enabled him to make with advantage. The
power of France was displayed in all its greatness.
A war in the north against England was prepar-
ing. On the coast an army of one hundred and
fifty thousand men, directed by the genius of Bo-
naparte, would invade England, and overturn its
government ; or if not adequate to this result, the
alarm spread through the nation, and the enormous
expenses consequent upon it would as certainly
effect its ruin, unless prevented by an humiliating
peace.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 193

In such an event, which was more than merely
probable, what, it was asked, would be the dif-
ference in the situation of the United States, if
they were at peace or war with France ?

In the former case the commerce of the world
would flow into their channels, relieved from the
exactions of England ; in the latter the fate of
Venice might forewarn them of their own. It was
urged that in the present condition of France, vast
advantages would result to the United States from
delay, which was in effect to gain their cause, and
that policy required they should make any arrange-
ment not absolutely extravagant.

A more direct attempt was made on the fears
of the envoys. Perhaps you think, they were told,
that in returning and exposing to your countrymen
the unreasonableness of the demands of this gov-
ernment you will unite them in resistance. You
are mistaken. You ought to know that the diplo-
matic skill of France and the means she possesses
in your country, are sufficient to enable her with
the French party in America, to throw the blame,
which will attend the rupture of the negotiations,
on the federalists as you term yourselves ; on the
British faction as that class of your citizens are
termed by France. You may assure yourselves
this will be done.

Such was the language of these unaccredited
and nameless individuals, who either with or with-
out authority found their way to the drawing

vol. ii. 25

194 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

room and the breakfast table of the American en-
voys ; and they having no other individuals with
whom to discuss the relations of the two coun-
tries, condescended to hear them.

The answer of the envoys was delivered with a
frankness suited to the purity of their character.
They unanimously resolved not to purchase the
right of negotiation. If negotiations were opened,
they professed a willingness to discuss any propo-
sition made by the French government ; if it ex-
ceeded their powers, they were ready, they said,
to consult with all practicable expedition the gov-
ernment of the United States. They expressed
their readiness, if the difficulties attending the
proposition for a loan, and the embarrassments in-
cident to a reclamation for illegal depredations on
the commerce of the United States should retard
an immediate completion of a treaty, to postpone
these important subjects for future discussion, and
place the present relations of the two nations on
an amicable basis. They asserted the early and
invariable attachment of the United States to re-
publican France, and proposed to discuss any
measures, which had given her offence, in the con-
fidence of being able to make satisfactory explana-
tions. On the advantages of neutrality, they said
it was unnecessary to dilate. All the efforts of
their government had been exerted to maintain it.
Referring to other suggestions, the envoys remark-
ed, that America had never contemplated a politi-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 195

cal connexion with Great Britain ; whether the
reputed danger of that government was real or not
they could not decide, but it was evident to them
that both the belligerents had much reason to wish
for peace. They declared their conviction that
France miscalculated on the state of parties in
America; that her extreme injustice would unite
all parties against her, and produce a common sen-
timent of hostility so soon as it should be ascer-
tained that to past injuries, which she would not
redress, were added aew wrongs aggravated by
eontempt.

They complained of the embarassment of their
condition. They were called to pledge their coun-
try to a great amount, for demands as extravagant
as unexpected, without discussing the justice or
the policy, on which they were founded ; without
assurance that they were not preliminaries to much
greater yet concealed; without any promise that
the rights of their country would thereafter be re-
spected, and without a document to prove that
persons to whom they were required to unbosom
themselves, were empowered even by the minis-
ter, much less by the directory, to hold any con-
versation with them.

On the 21st October Mr. Gerry proposed to his
colleagues to adopt the following resolution.

To the question, whether the propositions hir
formally and confidentially communicated to us as
private citizens, at the request, as is stated of Mons,

196 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Talleyrand in his private capacity, will be adopt-
ed as the basis of a treaty, this answer is given,
that it is highly probable some of the propositions
communicated on 19th and 20th October will be
considered as the basis of a treaty and others as
inadmissible, but that it is impossible to discuss or
come to a decision on them until they are pre-
sented to us in an official character.

The original of this note is endorsed " intended
to be given Saturday, 21st October."* The en-
dorsement is in general Pinckney's handwriting.f
On 3d November the envoys relate that they
told one of these intrusive messengers that they
should at any time be glad to see him as a private
citizen, but " that they had determined to receive
no propositions, unless the persons who bore them
had acknowledged authority to treat." Neverthe-
less, either as private citizens, or in some other
capacity, the anonymous gentlemen were received
by the envoys ; their conversation was noted in the
private journal of Mr. Marshall, and the transcript
of that journal communicated to the American
government as late as the 17th December.

For a long period the American embassy had
contented itself with listening to unaccredited
agents, without seeking such interviews with the
minister himself, as might, under ordinary circum-
stances lead to mutual good understanding.

* Mr. Gerry's MS. papers.

f Mr. Gerry's letter to president Jefferson, MS. 13th January
1801.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 197

On the 22d October it was intimated to Mr.
Gerry that the minister had expected to have seen
the American envoys, and to have conferred with
them individually on the affairs of their mission,
and had authorized this communication to be made
to him. Mr. Gerry sent for his colleagues, and
general Pinckney and general Marshall expressed
their opinion, that not being acquainted with M.
Talleyrand they could not with propriety call on
him, but that according to the custom of France
he might expect this of Mr. Gerry, from a pre-
vious acquaintance in America. With this per-
sonal selection Mr. Gerry "reluctantly complied,"*
and several interviews in the ordinary course of
civility were had between them, in which, as the
most interesting topic of the day, certainly one
most interesting to his visitor, M. Talleyrand oc-
casionally discussed the relations of France and
the United States.

Meanwhile thirty days had elapsed and no com-
munication in writing was received from the direc-
tory or its officers. It was proposed therefore by
one of the envoys to address to the minister of
foreign affairs an official note, calling his attention
to their situation, and demanding that steps should
be taken to open negotiations.

Proper as this measure would be under ordinary
circumstances, it seemed to Mr. Gerry that in the
present irritable state of the French government,

* Envoys' letter of 8th November 1797, American state papers
vol. iii. p. 495, 2d edition.

198 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

no good could be expected by it ; that any urgency
on the part of the Americans would serve rather
to exasperate than to reconcile ; and he proposed
therefore that communications in cypher should be
made to their own government, describing in de-
tail their present situation. The delay this would
occasion did not seem to him a sufficient objection
to it, inasmuch as it was not proposed by the
envoys to quit Paris ; and the American govern-
ment, by a timely knowledge of affairs, would be
better able to select such alternative as was pre-
sented. The personal observation, which even his
limited intercourse with the minister had afforded,
enabled him to speak with more confidence on this
point.*

This first disagreement among the envoys was
not of serious consequence. Mr. Gerry, at their
request, without yielding the opinion he advanced,
that the letter would be useless, joined in one
under date of 11th November, in which the en-
voys remind the minister of the promised com-
munication, they had anxiously but in vain ex-

* Mr. Pickering, in his review p. 117, in stating this fact adds
also that Mr. Gerry proposed to have "jit copies made out and
transmitted to his government." The perils of navigation, which
then obstructed the ocean are in a great degree forgotten, and
the readers of the review would be astonished at the folly of a
pretence, which it is more than insinuated was a contrivance
to waste time. Yet Mr. Pickering's own despatches to the
envoys were transmitted in the samenumber of sets, and "one by
a despatch boat sent on purpose." American state papers, vol.
iv. p. 153.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 199

pected to receive ; they repeat that the preser-
vation of friendship with France was dear to the
American nation, the loss of it a subject of un-
feigned regret, and that the recovery of it by
every means, which consist with the rights of an
independent nation engages their constant atten-
tion ; that the president of the United States had
given it in charge to the envoys to discuss candidly
the complaints of France, to offer frankly those of
the United States, and to review and alter existing
treaties, so as to consist with the mutual interest
and satisfaction of the contracting parties ; that
they were anxious to commence this task and
would be truly happy to restore that harmony,
which it was their wish as well as duty, if possible
to effect between the citizens of the two repub-
lics. To this letter no answer was returned. The
envoys were given to understand that it had been
laid before the executive directory, who would
command their minister what steps to pursue.

Previous to the writing of this letter, the en-
voys addressed to their government a minute ac-
count of all their discourse with informal agents,
" in thirty-six quarto pages of cypher and eight
pages of cyphered exhibits."

At the first interview between Mr. Gerry and
the French minister, at which the other two
envoys, " because they were not acquainted with
Mons. Talleyrand," had refused to be present,
that minister distinctly stated that the directory

200 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

had determined not to treat with the envoys, un-
less they previously made reparation for some
parts of the president's speech at the opening of
congress, that an arrette declaratory of this inten-
tion would be communicated in a few days ; but
if the envoys had any propositions to offer, he
would with alacrity communicate them to the
directory ; that considering the circumstances and
services of the same kind, which France had for-
merly rendered to the United States, the best way
for them would be to offer to make a loan to
France, either by taking Batavian inscriptions for
fifteen or sixteen millions of florins or in some
other way, which might be devised.

The good effect of this waiver of etiquette, if
indeed any of the artificial forms of private society
could exist between important official functionaries
in such a situation, was thus distinctly seen. Two
independent facts were learned with formality,
precision and authority. First, that no treaty
would be made with the envoys without an apo-
logy for the president's speech or an equivalent.
Second, that a voluntary offer of a loan would be
accepted as an equivalent.

Mr. Gerry on his return communicated these
facts to his colleagues. Their consultation upon
them resulted in desiring one of those mysterious
prolocutors, who still attended them, to inform
Mons. Talleyrand in substance that neither would
be accepted.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 201

In consequence of the visit made by Mr. Gerry
to Mons. Talleyrand, the latter invited the former
to one of his customary dinners ; the civility was
returned by the American, and something like an
intercourse that might give opportunity for concil-
iatory arrangements might have been effected, but
the separation of one gentleman from his colleagues
placed them all in so unpleasant a situation, that
it was impossible he could consent to continue it.
The minister's personal attentions, with a single
exception, were afterwards declined, and affairs
were left to the ordinary chance of official and
diplomatic procedure.

The letter of 11th November remained without
answer, and on the 24th December the envoys
reported to their government their opinion, that if
they were to wait six months longer, without they
stipulated the payment of money and a great deal
of it, in some shape or other, they would not be
able to accomplish the objects of their mission,
even if they were officially received, unless the
projected invasion of England was to fail, or a total
change take place in the persons, who directed the
affairs of the government. In this conclusion all
the envoys united, although on very different
grounds.

So anxious were these ministers to supply the
want of regular diplomatic proceedings by all the
information in their power, that the idle prattle of
a lady, who according to Mr. Pinckney, " was well

VOL. II. 26

202 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

acquainted with Mons. Talleyrand," and by him
afterwards described as " known to be connected
with Mr. Pinckney," was transmitted by that gen-
tleman in an official form to his government, as
additional evidence of the disposition of the direc-
tory to make the payment of money the basis of
negotiation.*

* "A lady understood to be Madame de Villette, the celebrat-
ed belle and bonne of Voltaire, was also concerned in this trans-
action." " As to the lady an intimation is given that that part
of the affair was not much to the credit of the Americans." —
Lyman's Diplomacy of the United States, p. 86. The able author
of this useful and generally accurate work, is here we think
under some mistake. The lady referred to was one acquainted
with general Pinckney, and her communication was made to
him and by him alone to the American government. Mr. Gerry
writes to Mons. Talleyrand, " 1 cannot give you the name of
any lady, for no one has made any political communications to
me since my arrival in Paris."

Madame Villette was the widow of a gentleman of fortune, a
colonel in the king's service. Her uncle was a general officer,
and her brother commanded the corps which defended the queen
at Versailles, where he lost his life. Madame was on Robes-
pierre's list of proscription, and was confined ten months in pris-
on, expecting every day to be summoned to the guillotine. Her
daughter, then only seven years of age, was her only companion.
She was not at this period remarkable for personal attractions.
The imprisonment had made great inroad on her health. She
is described by a gentleman in Paris, as " equally distinguished
for the goodness of her heart, her excellent morals, and the rich-
ness of her mind."

The intimations not much to the credit of the Americans,
should have been confined to one individual. Talleyrand ri-
dicules the folly, which saw any thing important in her re-
mark, "lend us says she to him one day, money in our war,
we lent it to you in yours;" "and a conversation thus simple
is taken up by Mr. Pinckney, who finds it necessary to write

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 203

While affairs remained in this doubtful condi-
tion, the envoys faithful to their trust, and anxious
to leave no effort unattempted, which talents, in-
dustry and duty could accomplish, laid before the
French minister under date of 17th January, a
voluminous defence of the American policy, a jus-
tification of the conduct of the United States, and
a powerful appeal against that course of conduct,
which by the sanction of the directory, had sacri-
ficed their mercantile capital, violated the privi-
leges of their flag, and exposed their mariners to
captivity.

The letter begins by declaring that the envoys
of the United States had been hitherto restrained,
by the expectation of entering on their mission in
the forms usual among nations, from addressing
the executive directory through the minister of for-
eign affairs, those explanations and reclamations,
with which they are charged by the government
they represent. If that expectation was to be
relinquished yet the unfeigned wish of the Unit-
ed States to restore that harmony between the
two republics, which they have so unremitting-
ly sought to preserve, rendered it the duty of the
envoys to lay before the government of France,

every thing and to poison it, is mysteriously sent by him to his
government, as if it had any relation to the clandestine proposi-
tion made by the intriguers. Thus minute is distrust. Thus is
prejudice led astray in its reasonings. In this manner are the
politics of some men a pest to social intercourse." — American
state papers, 4th vol. p. 234.

204 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

however informal the communication may be
deemed, some considerations in addition to those
heretofore submitted relative to the subsisting dif-
ferences between the two republics.

This admirable state paper, which may com-
pare advantageously with the ablest diplomatic
correspondence in the American archives, was
draughted by general Marshall, and submitted to
Mr. Gerry for revision and amendment.

During the time it was under his eye it under-
went important alterations in its style and man-
ner, to give it that softening and courteous form
of address, which should neither contain, nor give
reasonable pretence for a complaint that it did
contain, any offensiveness of language, and al-
though it was decidedly his opinion that there
were reasons, which argument could not reach, for
the unpromising condition of things, he agreed
with his colleagues in subscribing the amended
despatch.

While the most careful and successful regard
appears to have been paid to the composition of
this able performance to suit it to the temper of
the haughty tribunal to which it was addressed,
it lost nothing of the character, which belonged to
a free and powerful people complaining of the in-
juries they had suffered, and describing the pa-
tience and the perseverance, with which they had
peaceably sought redress. It displays every where
the most anxious desire for an honourable recon-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 205

ciliation, and affects not to conceal the grief of vio-
lated friendship in the unfortunate separation of the
only republics m the world. The personal feel-
ings of the writers, and the circumstances to which
they appeal for the proof of their sincerity, were
too forcibly expressed not to be true.

" Bringing with them," says the letter, "the
temper of their government and country, searching
only for the means of effecting the objects of their
mission, they have permitted no personal conside-
rations to influence their conduct, but have waited
under circumstances beyond measure embarrassing
and unpleasant, with that respect, which the Ame-
rican government has so uniformly paid to that of
France, for permission to lay before you, citizen
minister, the important communications with which
they have been charged."

" If, citizen minister, there remains a hope that
these desirable objects can be effected by any
means, which the United States have authorized,
the envoys would still solicit, and still respectfully
attend the developement of those means. If on
the contrary no such hope remains, they have only
to pray that their return to their own country may be
facilitated, and they will leave France with the
most deep felt regret, that neither the real and
sincere friendship, which the government of the
United States has so uniformly and unequivocally
displayed for this great republic, nor its continued
efforts to demonstrate the purity of its conduct and

206 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

intentions, can protect its citizens, or preserve them
from the calamities, which they have sought by a
just and upright conduct to avert."

These communications had no effect. There
were points, which could not be overcome by any
power of language ; obstacles, which the diplo-
macy of the French government, whose most fa-
miliar art was deception, raised in the road, by
their willingness to transfer to the agents of the
American republic imputations, which its own
annals would prove to have been very frequently
attributable to itself.

The directory believed, or affected to believe,
that the American administration was wholly in-
sincere in its pacific and friendly professions, that
it was under English influence, and sought only
a plausible pretence to join the " conspiracy of
kings." They believed, or affected to believe,
that the English cabinet, having by the power of
France been obliged to acknowledge the indepen-
dence of the states, aspired at least to influence
their policy, and introduce monarchical establish-
ments ; that it endeavoured to fortify, by similarity
of constitutional forms, habits common to the
English and American people. That many citi-
zens of the United States could be found, who
were seriously reconciled to the English system of
government ; that men called by public confidence
to the administration of affairs in the United States
had written in favour of the British constitution,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 207

merely to prepare the way for such a system in
their own country. That to men of these senti-
ments war was indispensable, and a war too with
the French republic ; that by means of a war they
could raise armies and obtain supplies ; that by
means of war against their old friends, against
brothers and republicans, it would be easy to ac-
celerate their wishes, to excite civil commotion,
to shock all former ideas of political morality, to
stigmatize as seditious the honourable defenders
of principles, and to crush, under the pageantry
and force of monarchical institutions, the simple
and unostentatious forms of representative govern-
ment. *

Preposterous as these imputations now seem,
they derived in the minds of the rulers of France,
great confidence from the language and conduct of
parties in the United States. Americans attribut-
ed such opinions to some of their fellow citizens,
and in the war of recrimination, which was carried
on in the gazettes of the day, all public spirit, all
national pride and all sentiments of patriotism
seemed to be lost for ever. The country was
divided into factions, and would be ruined by the
prevalence of either one over the other.

* If the opinion supposed to have been entertained by colonel
Hamilton and before cited, page 62, had reached the ears of
citizen plenipotentiary Genet as it had Mr. Jefferson's, it would
undoubtedly have been communicated with additions and embel-
lishment, and have served to confirm the imputations recorded
in the text.

208 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

But the French directory chose to extend their
erroneous suspicions to the characters of the dis-
tinguished citizens, who with equal purity of at-
tachment to their own country were deputed to
represent its interests with the government of
republican France.

Two of these, it was said, if not believed, two
of them were infected with the same anti-republi-
can principles ; and any attempt at negotiation
with them would prove abortive ; because it was
a part of the political drama, in which they were
actors, to close all avenues of honourable peace,
and to give strength and popularity to their party
at home by so managing affairs as to produce a
rupture and throw the blame of it on the govern-
ment of France.

Their associations and intimates, their oral and
written opinions, known through the machinery of
a vigilant police, justified as was said, all these
suspicions. They did not come to make peace,
but to prove that no peace could be made. Under
the guise of a desire to negotiate with France,
their real design was to show to America that
there was no alternative but war.

These unreasonable and ill founded jealousies,
it was apparent, could neither be written down by
logical arguments on national rights, or eloquent
complaints of public wrongs.

On 4th February, while these opinions were
professed by the directory, Mons. Talleyrand in-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 209

vited Mr. Gerry to meet him, and having enjoined
upon him profound secrecy, informed him that the
executive directory were dissatisfied and embar-
rassed by the opinions and conversation of his
colleagues ; that it had determined not to treat
with them, but signified their willingness to enter
upon negotiations with him ; and the minister
added that his departure or refusal would produce
an immediate declaration of war against the
United States.

" Astonished," says Mr. Gerry, in a letter to
Mons. Talleyrand, " at this communication, I in-
formed you that I had no powers to treat sepa-
rately, the measure was impossible, and that had
my powers been adequate, a treaty made under
such circumstances could never be ratified by my
government. You differed from me ; we reason-
ed upon it, and each adhered to his opinion. I
urged in vain the unreasonableness of admitting
prejudices against my colleagues without inform-
ing them of the causes thereof, the good effect in
removing them, which might result from such in-
formation, and the necessity of making known to
them all that had now passed between us. You
held me to the promise of secrecy, adding that if
I would negotiate, we could soon finish a treaty,
for the executive directory were not in the habit
of spending much time about such matters. You
desired another interview, in which, after a dis-
cussion of the subject, I confirmed and adhered to

vol. ii. 27

210 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

my determination. In this state affairs remained
some time, and I flattered myself with the hope,
that failing in the proposition for negotiating with
me separately, your next would be to accredit the
three envoys ; in such an event the secrecy men-
tioned would have been proper."

When Mr. Gerry returned from his first visit to
Mons. Talleyrand, he informed general Marshall
that communications and propositions had been
made to him by that minister, which he was not
at liberty to impart to general Pinckney or himself,
that he had also propounded some questions which
had produced changes in the proposition, but that
as soon as he could obtain liberty the whole matter
should be laid before him.

There needed nothing else. Mr. Marshall in
his commentary on this extraordinary occurrence
in his private journal, expresses his conviction,
that the substance of this communication was a
determination to order his and general Pinckney's
departure from France. The last named gentle-
man also in a few days assured Mr. Gerry that
he was apprized of the nature of this private in-
terview, and immediately mentioned the fact.
Whether these gentlemen, by any such associations
or opinions as had been ascribed to them, had any
reason to apprehend such a measure, or whether
to embarass and divide the envoys, it was made
with the forms of privacy to one and covertly con-
veyed to the others, must be matter of conjecture.

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY. 211

On the 25th February Mr. Talleyrand's secre-
tary called on Mr. Gerry and desired him to con-
sult the other envoys, and inform him whether
they would consent to a loan payable after the
war, adding that this proposal had not before been
made. The proposition with all its circumstan-
ces was submitted by Mr. Gerry to his colleagues
and thoroughly discussed. The manner in which
it was entertained will presently be stated.

Preceding these circuitous and extraordinary
events, that is to say on the 18th January, as a
prelude to the threatened war, which Mons. Tal-
leyrand had assured Mr. Gerry, he alone had pow-
er to avert, the two legislative councils had de-
creed that every vessel found at sea and loaded in
whole or in part with merchandise, the produc-
tions of England, should be declared prize, who-
ever the owner of these goods or merchandise
might be.

The pressure of this decree on the commerce
of their country induced the envoys to rescind their
determination not to make an informal visit to the
minister. On the 27th February they demanded
an audience, and were received on the 2d March.

At this and the interviews which followed, the
French minister reproached the envoys for the dis-
tance and the coldness they had observed in their
intercourse with him, and asserted in answer to
their vindication, that it was neither friendly or
usual, but had increased the displeasure of the

212 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

directory. He adverted again to the effect pro-
duced by the president's speech, and of the neces-
sity of a loan of money, as an evidence of the sin-
cerity of their professions, which must be tested
by something of more value than words.

All the envoys reprobated a loan as a measure,
which would entangle them with other nations, as
a departure from their neutrality, as unjust, impo-
litic, and a violation of instructions, which it would
be useless for them to transcend.

Talleyrand again remarked that his government
insisted on some proposition, which would prove
that it was not about entering into arrangements
with a people or their agents, who were unfriendly
to its interest, but finding that a loan as at first
proposed would not be acceded to, he changed his
ground, and suggested what his secretary had be-
fore communicated to Mr. Gerry, that it should be
contracted to be payable after the war, and in
supplies to St. Domingo. So constructed, he said,
it would effectually prevent any just complaint by
other belligerents. At any event this was the
only condition, on which the directory would open
negotiations, and this acceded to, the adjustment
of complaints would be easy. If wrong had been
done to the United States it would be repaired,
but if this was not admitted, the distance and cold-
ness between the two governments would be in-
creased.

The envoys having had two interviews with

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 213

Mons. Talleyrand on 2d March, although he was
not authorised by the executive directory to hold
them officially, desired another on the sixth, which
was accordingly appointed. At this last interview
they rejected absolutely his new modified proposi-
tion, declining any loan in whatever terms, time
or manner it should be made.

Between the 2d and 6th this matter was dis-
cussed, as after the 27th February it had before
been by the envoys. The separate opinions of
the members are not disclosed in their voluminous
communications ; nor in the statement made to
Mons. Talleyrand does it appear, but that their
resolution was unanimous. Such however was
not the fact. A difference of opinion existed
among the envoys. That of the majority has been
commended to the admiration of the world, while
the dissenting individual, whose error if it was
one, was a mere error of judgment, and wholly
harmless because it was unknown at the time
both in France and America, has been calumniat-
ed, misrepresented and abused, as if he were
ready to sacrifice his country's interest, honour,
character and independence.

In the conferences of the envoys relative to the
condition of things thus presented by the minis-
ter's secretary and confirmed by their direct ap-
plication to the minister himself, it was acceded to
by all of them that the haughty temper of the re-
public demanded as a preliminary, what with more

214 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

propriety should have been the subject of nego-
tiation.

Their instructions were in the following terms,
" that no aid be stipulated in favour of France
during the present war," and it was admitted that
they excluded all power in the envoys to negotiate
a loan during its continuance. Mr. Gerry thought
that as to a loan payable after the war, the in-
structions were ambiguous. Messrs. Marshall and
Pinckney maintained that they were as perempto-
ry in the one case as the other.

" I considered," said Mr. Gerry, " that as our
instructions contained not a word respecting a loan
after the war, it was not manifest from them either
that the government would approve or disapprove
such a loan if made by the envoys, as a necessary
measure of accommodation, and although the pro-
viding that no aid be stipulated during the war,
might imply that aid might be stipulated after the
war, yet it appeared probable to me such a contin-
gency had not been anticipated by our govern-
ment."

To the objection that whatever might be the
terms, yet in effect a loan payable at any time,
would be a loan, on which money could be raised
for present use, Mr. Gerry said that he could con-
sent to the proposed loan under no circumstances
unless in the treaty to be made this possibility
could be prevented ; that if this treaty contained
a stipulation to avoid the loan in case any such use

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 215

was made of it, such provision he thought would
do away the objection.

But it was after all a question of expediency*
France had made a series of vexatious captures of
the ships and merchandise of the United States,
to an amount of many million of dollars. By ac-
tual war, the undoubted right of the United States
for a reclamation of all that vast amount of pro-
perty would be lost forever. A treaty with the dis-
advantage of a loan might give restitution to the
suffering merchants, whose property to this im-
mense amount had either been already paid over
to the captors, or was now in progress of condem-
nation. That war with the French people in ad-
dition to all the misery, which necessarily attend-
ed a resort to arms, in the destruction of human
life, in the interruption of domestic pursuits, and
in the dangers which might be apprehended to the
new government and almost untried constitution
of the United States, would as a mere matter of
pecuniary calculation, be of vastly more damage
to the finances of their country. Its amount would
be incalculable, and its consequences on the credit
and revenues of the union, just now beginning
to recover themselves from the disasters of the
revolution, could hardly be well anticipated. The
power and resources of France prevented all dan-
ger of loss from the loan, which would be re-
paid to us according to the stipulated terms, and
might be negotiated on our credit merely without
any considerable advance.

216 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Mr. Gerry adverted to the divided condition of
the American people, as an argument that would
prove almost any sacrifice less dangerous than a
war not supported by the public will, and which
might produce the most serious civil dissensions.

A war with France, he said, would throw the
United States almost of necessity into the arms of
England, already struggling for its existence under
circumstances of unparalleled embarrassments. It
was this connexion he feared much more than the
force, great as it was, of the French arms.

On the point of honour Mr. Gerry did not ad-
mit that he felt less sensibly or delicately than
either of his colleagues, but by no means conced-
ed that the modified proposition of a loan under
the existing circumstances of the case, could be
injurious to the honour, or derogatory to the in-
dependence of the United States.

The honour of a country, he contended, could
never be consulted by adopting a measure, which
hazarded its existence. In the valour of his coun-
trymen, in their firmness, resolution and enduring
courage, he had unlimited confidence j he had
been a witness of their wonderful efforts in the
darkest periods of the revolutionary contest, but
there were limits to all human ability. If France
succeeded in her vast efforts for the subjugation
of England, our destruction as the ally of England
was certain ; if she failed, we had contracted an
alliance in no degree less productive of ruin.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 217

There could be no point of national honour in
such a dilemma. A jealous honour, he contended,
would before now have involved us in a quarrel
with both the belligerents. We had suffered
wrongs from both of them, not less insulting in
manner than serious in amount. With one we
had effected a negotiation by yielding a principle
not less vital, and probably not less embarrassing,
than the loan now demanded by the other. Was
it now necessary to our character to become of a
sudden so nicely fastidious, and having without
war borne all kinds of injuries, voluntarily incur
the most awful calamity of nations upon a doubt-
ful question of national honour ? If the Roman
pride, which permits no second injury, had in our
case already been violated, if the true interest and
happiness of a young nation, feeling sensibly its
wrongs, and rapidly acquiring the strength, which
it now wanted to avenge them, was its best and
highest honour, in which all the duty of all its
citizens concentrated, was that not best preserved
by a little longer patience in the path we had
travelled ?

Mr. Gerry added that it was well to speak plain.
He had not found in the opinions of his colleagues
that flexibility, which persons earnest after peace
would have practised. That their demeanour was
cold, reserved and distant at least if not back-
ward. That had they yielded to the conferences
proposed by the minister, it might have been possi-

vol. ii. 28

218 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ble that some modification of the proposed terms
could have been effected. He did not assign to
them any other than the most honourable and
patriotic motives, but they seemed to him to act on
the conviction that France was insincere in her pro-
posals, and never intended to do more than amuse
us with the appearance of accommodation, without
intending to make a treaty that would reconcile
the two nations on terms compatible with our in-
dependence. He differed from them altogether.

They stood now on the brink of an awful re-
sponsibility. He willingly encountered it. He
would have his own determination known to the
American people. They must pay the expenses
of the war, and their blood must flow in expiation
of its causes. It was true he was outvoted, and
his colleagues had a right to deliver the opinion of
the commission. He would not embarrass them
by informing the French government of this difFer-
ence of opinion, but it must be remembered, and
to this end he desired to record his solemn pro-
testation, that no part or share of this refusal was
attributable to him.*

Notwithstanding this, Mr. Gerry declared, he
would not at present agree to a loan, nor at any
time accede to it without the sanction of his govern -

* The private journal of Mr. Marshall, for the inspection of
which the author is indebted to colonel Pickering, attributes
substantially most of the foregoing arguments to Mr. Gerry,
which are extended and confirmed in his papers.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 219

ment. His only difference with his colleagues
was narrowed down to this. They absolutely re-
fused to consider the proposition, and met it with
an unqualified negative. He was willing to open
negotiations on the basis of a loan, to be made
after the war, and to prepare a treaty ad referendum,
reserving to himself the right of a decision on the
whole matter, when a decision should be eventual-
ly necessary.

It was obvious that the loan was a small matter.
In a pecuniary light to the French nation it was a
trifle. It was solicited as proof of a friendly spirit
on the part of a people, with whom the directory
pretended to be irritated, and as a conciliation to
the French nation, whose attachment to the Ame-
ricans had very greatly diminished.

In the subsequent stages of this negotiation,
Mr. Gerry endeavoured to persuade the French
minister that the loan ought not to be insisted on.
At a conference on the Gth of March, he urged
the impolicy of this demand, and maintained that
a treaty on liberal principles, such as those on
which the treaty of commerce between the two
nations was first established, would be infinitely
more advantageous to France than the compara-
tively trifling benefit she would derive from a
loan ; such a treaty would produce a friendship
and attachment on the part of the United States
to France, which would be solid and permanent,
and produce benefits far superior to those of any
loan which might be made.

220 LIFE OF ELI3RIDGE GERRY.

In this effort he was equally unsuccessful, and
affairs seemed rapidly tending to a crisis.

On the 13th of March, a distinguished citizen
of the republic, supposed with good reason by
general Marshall,* to be deputed for the purpose
by Mons. Talleyrand, called on the general, and
under injunctions of secrecy, except as to his col-
leagues, informed him " that the directory was de-
termined to give passports to general Pinckney
and himself, and to retain Mr. Gerry ; that this
order would be kept up a few days to give time
to make propositions conforming to the views of
this government. That if they were not made
Talleyrand would be compelled to execute the
order. General Marshall told him if the pro-
position in expectation of which the order was
kept up was a loan, it was perfectly unnecessary
to keep it up a single day ; that the subject had
been considered for five months, and the opinion
with respect to the injunctions of positive duty
concerning it were incapable of being shaken ;
that as to himself, if it was impossible to effect
the object of the mission, he did not wish to stay
another day in France, and would as cheerfully
depart the next day as at any future time. The
messenger reasoned, as often before, on the pro-
priety of assuming the powers, which were re-
quired, as being indispensably necessary for the
welfare of the country. He did not pretend to

* General Marshall's Journal, MS.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 221

say that the demands of France were just, nor did
the minister pretend to place the demand on that
ground, or to expect compliance on that account,
hut because a compliance would be useful to our
country ; that France thought herself sufficiently
powerful to give the law to the world, and exact-
ed from all around her money to enable her to
finish successfully her war against England. All
the nations around her, (and he enumerated them)
had been compelled to contribute to this object.
There was no instance in which France had de-
sisted from a demand once made, and it might be
relied on she would not desist from the demand
made on us. After some further conversation, in
which general Marshall persisted in the declaration
that no money proposition could or would be made,
he returned to the subject of retaining Mr. Gerry.
He said it was expected America would consider
this as manifesting an unwillingness on the part of
France to break entirely with us, and that the
government of the United States would annex to
Mr. Gerry two other persons, who might do what
was necessary for our country, or have a stronger
disposition to reconcile the two republics. He
hinted a desire that some propositions of the sort
should come from us. General Marshall told him,
" if two of us should return, our government would
act as its own judgment should dictate. That if
France was desirous that two of us should return
to represent fully to our government the state of

222 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

politics in this country, and meant to leave to our
decision, who should stay or go, we should arrange
that matter as might comport with our own opin-
ion of propriety and the interests of our country ;
that if on the contrary, France chose to decide for
us, and select for the United States the minister
who should represent them, the act must be entire-
ly the act of France, and they would not have the
smallest concern with it."

"You know very well," said the general, " if any
of us returns to the United States, I am resolved to
be one ; but that I would contribute to no arrange-
ment of the sort proposed, because I conceive that
a minister ought to represent the country and the
interests of that country which deputed him, and
not that to which he was deputed, and consequent-
ly he ought to be chosen by those who deputed
him, and not by those to whom he was deputed.
He replied, that my observation was very just in
itself, and would apply if France rejected us all,
and demanded a fourth man from America, but
that we were all three equally trusted and chosen
by the government of the United States, and
France only selected from among us one, whose
dispositions were believed to be friendly to this
government, and who might safely be permitted
to stay among them. That general Pinckney and
myself, and especially myself, were considered as
being sold to the English. He would not conceal
from me that our positive refusal to comply with

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 223

the demands of France, was attributed principally
to me, who was considered entirely English. That
he had assured the minister, he was mistaken.
That I was restrained from agreeing to the loan,
from want of power, and not by want of will, but
the opinion was persisted in. I felt some little
resentment, and answered, that the French gov-
ernment thought no such thing ; that neither the
government nor any man thought me English, but
they knew I was not French ; they knew I would
not sacrifice my duty and the interests of my
country to any nation on earth, and therefore I
was not a proper man to stay, and was branded
with the epithet of being English."*

This indecent and disreputable imputation,
which while it glanced from, without injuring the
honourable character of the upright and virtuous
statesman to whom it was addressed, reflects on
its author the disgrace it was vainly intended to
affix on general Marshall, was soon after followed
by an official letter from the minister to the en-
voys. It bears date the 18th of March, and was
intended as an answer to their letter of 17th
January.

In this letter Talleyrand assumes a style suit-
ed to the haughty temper of his government.
He maintains that the priority of grievances and
complaints belonged to the French republic ; that
all the grievances of which the American envoys

* MS. Journal of general Marshall.

224 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

complained grew out of measures, which the con-
duct of the United States had justified. He com-
plains that the republic was deceived in the ne-
gotiation, and sacrificed by the treaty of London
of 1794 ; that in this treaty the federal govern-
ment had made to Great Britain concessions the
most unheard of, the most incompatible with the
interests of the United States, and the most dero-
gatory to their alliance with France ; that by it
every thing had been calculated to turn the neu-
trality of the United States to the advantage of
England, and that France was thereby left free to
avail itself of the preservative means, with which
the law of nature, the law of nations and prior
treaties furnished her.

He complained that American newspapers under
the direct control of the cabinet had since the ratifi-
cation of that treaty redoubled their calumnies
against the republic, against her principles, her
magistrates, and her envoys. The executive direc-
tory had seen itself denounced in a speech of the
president, as endeavouring to produce anarchy and
division in the United States. He accuses the
government of the United States of a desire to
adhere at every hazard, to the spirit of the treaty
at London, without giving to France an opportu-
nity for equal advantage, as evidence of which he
adverts to the instructions of the envoys, which
he says were not drawn up with the desire of at-
taining pacific results. The intention, which he

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 225

attributes to the government of the United States,
he says, is so little disguised that nothing seems
to have been neglected to manifest them to every
eye. It is probably with this view that it was
thought proper to send to the French republic
persons whose opinions and connexions are too
well known to hope from them dispositions sin-
cerely conciliatory. He adds the following para-
graph.

" It is only in order to smooth the way of dis-
cussions, that the undersigned has entered into
the preceding explanations. It is with the same
view that he declares to the commissioners and
envoys extraordinary, that notwithstanding the
kind of prejudice, which has been entertained
with respect to them, the executive directory is
disposed to treat with that one of the three, whose
opinions, presumed to be more impartial, promise
in the course of the explanations more of that
reciprocal confidence, which is indispensable."

The replication of the American envoys was
presented on the 3d of April. In clear and for-
cible language, with firmness, frankness and plain-
ness suited to the character of the United States,
this reply meets, answers, refutes every topic in
succession, which was contained in the minister's
letter. It denies his accusations, it corrects his
mis-statements, it overturns his arguments, and
presents another splendid instance of the powerful
defence, which integrity and talents and learning

vol. II. 29

226 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

are capable of making for the injured rights of the
country.

To the part relative to themselves the letter
replies, " The opinions and relations of the under-
signed are purely American, unmixed with any
particle of foreign tint. If they possess a quality
on which they pride themselves, it is an attach-
ment to the happiness and welfare of their coun-
try ; if they could at will select the means of
manifesting that attachment, it would be by effect-
ing a sincere and real accommodation between
France and the United States, in promoting the
interests of both, and consistent with the independ-
ence of the latter."

To the offer of the directory to treat with one
of their number, the envoys reply, " The result of
a deliberation on this point is that no one of the
undersigned is authorized to take upon himself a
negotiation, evidently intrusted, by the tenor of
their powers and instructions to the whole, nor
are there any two of them who can propose to
withdraw themselves from the task committed to
them by their government, while there remains a
possibility of performing it.

" It is hoped the prejudices said to have been
conceived against the ministers of the United
States will be dissipated by the truths they have
stated.

" If in this hope they shall be disappointed, and
it should be the will of the directory to order

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 227

passports for any number of them, you will please
accompany such passports with letters of safe con-
duct, which will entirely protect from the cruisers
of France the vessels, in which they may respec-
tively sail, and give to their persons, suit and pro-
perty that perfect security to which the laws and
usages of nations entitle them."

This letter of the envoys to Mons. Talleyrand
was followed by one from him to Mr. Gerry, inti-
mating a belief that his colleagues had withdrawn
from the territories of the republic, and express-
ing a desire to resume with him reciprocal com-
munications upon the interests of the United
States of America and the French republic. To
this Mr. Gerry replied.

MR. GERRY TO MONS. TALLEYRAND.

Paris, April 4, 1748. (Germinal 15th, an C.)

I had the honour, citizen minister, of receiving
your letter of the 14th Germinal (the 3d inst.)
and Mr. Deutrement, who delivered it, informed
me, that it was intended to be shown to general
Pinckney and general Marshall.

Whilst my colleagues and myself, to whom the
government of the United States have intrusted
the affairs of the embassy, had a joint agency
therein, I have carefully imparted to them all the

228 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

propositions which you have requested, and the
relative conferences, and to yourself our decisions
thereon ; regretting at the same time, the unfor-
tunate and embarrassing circumstances which im-
posed on me this disagreeable task. But as by
the tenor of your letter, it is now expected that
they will quit the territory of the French republic,
it will be impossible for me to be the medium of,
or to take any measures which will be painful to
my colleagues, or not to afford them all the assist-
ance in my power ; and it would be moreover in-
consistent with the line of conduct, which you
well know, citizen minister, I have uniformly ob-
served, for removing the unfavourable impressions
which existed on the part of this government
against them. Indeed in our last letter, there is
a conditional application for passports, which as it
appears to me, supersedes the necessity of a hint
to them on this subject ; and general Marshall is
waiting impatiently for an answer to that part of
it, which respects a letter of safe conduct, for the
vessel in which he and his suite may take passage
for the United States, to determine whether he
shall embark from France or from Great Britain,
but the unfortunate situation of general Pinckney
with respect to the critical state of his daughter's
health, renders it utterly impossible for him to de-
part under existing circumstances.

You have proposed, citizen minister, the 5th or
7th of this decade for me to resume (reprendre)

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 229

our reciprocal communications, upon the interests
of the French republic and of the United States.
The reciprocal communications, which we have
had, were such only as I have alluded to in the be-
ginning of this letter ; unless your proposition ac-
companied with an injunction of secrecy, for me
to treat separately, is considered in that light. To
resume this subject will be unavailing, because the
measure, for the reasons which I then urged, is
utterly impracticable. I can only then confer in-
formally and unaccredited, on any subject respect-
ing our mission, and communicate to the govern-
ment of the United States the result of such con-
ferences, being in my individual capacity unau-
thorized to give them an official stamp. Never-
theless every measure in my power, and in con-
formity with the duty I owe to my country, shall
be zealously pursued to restore harmony, and cor-
dial friendship between the two republics. I had
the honour of calling on you last evening, for the
purpose of making this communication verbally ;
but as you were absent, to prevent misconceptions,
I have thought it best to reduce it to writing.

Accept I pray you, citizen minister, the assur-
ances of my perfect esteem and respect.

E. Gerry.

To the minister of foreign affairs
of the French republic.

230 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The joint agency of the envoys had now ter-
minated. After divers perplexing embarrassments
respecting passports, general Marshall at length
received them about the 12th of April, and imme-
diately embarked for the United States.* Mr.
Pinckney detained in Europe by the sickness of
a member of his family, as speedily as possible
quitted Paris. Mr. Gerry on the positive declar-
ation of the minister, by order of the directory,
that his departure from Paris would be attended
by an immediate declaration of war, which would
be suspended by his remaining till the sense of his
government could be obtained, consented under
these circumstances not to demand his passports.
On the departure of Messrs. Marshall and Pinck-
ney, Mons. Talleyrand proposed, as already men-
tioned, to proceed immediately on a separate ne-
gotiation with Mr. Gerry, which proposition he
rejected without hesitation, declaring, and against
the minister's repeated efforts, maintaining the
position that his whole power terminated with the
departure of his colleagues.

* Some difficulty occurred in general Marshall's obtaining a
letter of safe conduct for the vessel in which he proposed to em-
bark, which induced him to express a design if it was refused, of
returning through England. The same confidential agent of
Mons. Talleyrand, with whom he had formerly conversed, said
to him on learning this, that it would give great offence to the
government of France, and injure him in the opinion of his own
countrymen ; and that it would be immediately published by
this government, that he had gone to England to receive the
wages he had earned by breaking off* the treaty with France .'

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 231

On the 20th April he addressed to Mons. Tal-
leyrand the following letter, which distinctly dis-
closes the peculiar and painful situation in which
he was placed, and the terms which by a perfect
understanding with the minister, were to be the
conditions of his continuance in the French capital.

MR. GERRY TO MONS. TALLEYRAND.

Paris, April 20, 1798. (1 Floreal, an 6.)

Citizen Minister, — My colleagues having been
under the necessity of departing from Paris, have
left me in the most painful situation : as it res-
pects themselves, the government and nation which
I had the honour with them to represent, and my
personal circumstances. The alternatives present-
ed to my choice, were the continuance of my resi-
dence here, or an immediate rupture on my de-
parture ; 1 have chosen the former, prompted by
every consideration of the duty I owed my coun-
try.

The object of this government in my remaining
here, as announced in your official note of the 14th
Germinal, (3d April) was " to resume our recipro-
cal communications on the interests of the French
republic and of the United States." My answer
informed you that " I could only confer informally
and unaccredited, on any subject respecting our
mission, and communicate to the government of

232 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the United States the result of such conferences ;
being in my individual capacity, unauthorised to
give them an official stamp." This then I consid-
er as the line of conduct well understood to be ob-
served on my part ; and in the present state of
affairs, citizen minister, I flatter myself, that pro-
positions for terminating all differences, for the
restoration of harmony and friendship, and for the
reestablishment of commerce between the United
States and France, will be promptly made on the
part of the latter ; that they will be such, as cor-
responding with the justice and magnanimity of
this great nation, and with sound policy, will en-
sure success ; that I shall have an opportunity of
soon embarking for the United States, and pre-
senting them to my government for their consider-
ation ; and that all further depredations on our
commerce, by French cruisers, will in the interim
be prohibited. If in forming this arrangement I
can render any services, you may be always sure
of my immediate and cheerful cooperation.

Measures like these will at once extinguish those
coals of discord, which kindled into a flame, must
be destructive of the respective interests of the
two republics ; will not only restore, but increase,
if possible, their former confidence ; and terminate
in a competition for excelling each other in mutual
acts of generosity and kindness.

In any event, citizen minister, I flatter myself
it will not be thought necessary for me to remain

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 233

long in France, as the state of my family and af-
fairs requires my immediate return to the United
States ; and as their consul-general will continue
his residence here, which, pending negotiation,
will answer every political purpose. I pray you,
citizen minister, to accept the assurances of my
most perfect esteem and regard.

E. Gerry.

To the minister of foreign affairs
of the French republic.

Things had hardly settled on these new terms,
when the publication of the despatches of the en-
voys to the American government returned to Eu-
rope, and put the people as well as government
of France in a flame.

Talleyrand demanded the names of the in-
triguers, who taking advantage of the insulated
situation in which the envoys had kept themselves,
had endeavoured to deceive them, and of whose
devices he felicitated Mr. Gerry in not having
been the dupe. The avowed object of this de-
mand was to ascertain for the official information
of the directory, by whom had been made the pro-
position of money for corrupt distribution.

In compliance with this request, Mr. Gerry
communicated the real names of the parties, who
in the published communications of the envoys,
had been by the American secretary of state dis-
tinguished by letters of the alphabet.

VOL. II. 30

234 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

On the 26th July, Mr. Gerry quitted Paris.
The interval between the departure of his col-
leagues and his own, was passed in an effort of
the minister to enter upon negotiations with him,
although he had professed his entire want of au-
thority to engage in, and his determination under
existing circumstances, even if he had the authori-
ty, to decline its exercise.

In the letters which passed between them,
Mons. Talleyrand in the name of the directory,
announced the pacific disposition of the French
government. He announced the willingness of
that government to give Mr. Gerry a public recep-
tion, the obtaining of which he declared rested
solely on himself. The demand of a loan, and
explanation for president's speeches, were aban-
doned ; a regret too earnestly urged not to have
been sincere, was expressed by action as well as
language, that Mr. Gerry determined to depart,
and positive assurances were given of the recep-
tion of another minister in his place, with the re-
spect due to the nation he would represent. To
favour the belief of a better disposition, than had
before existed, an arrete was forwarded to Mr.
Gerry at Havre, restraining the irregular and vex-
atious conduct of French privateers in the West
India seas, and assurances given that all other ar-
rangements should conform to the just expecta-
tions of the United States.

The despatches of the American envoys had
produced a wonderful excitement. In England,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 235

as well as in America, they were supposed to dis-
play the corruption and profligacy of the govern-
ment of France, and unexampled assiduity was
discovered to print and circulate with the ut-
most possible publicity copies of these despatches
through every part of Europe. The indignation
of the directory was excited, but a cooler judg-
ment suspended its effects.

The over zealous anxiety of England to in-
volve the two nations in war, indicated to the
rulers of France the great advantage which was
expected by her ancient enemy from an alliance
with the United States. The causes from which
so great good was anticipated, were examined and
appreciated ; the power, the influence, and the
character of the American people were more care-
fully ascertained. The strength which such an
union would bestow on the last enemy, which re-
mained to her, and a growing respect for the for-
titude and resources of that enemy, changed the
councils of the politic directory and produced that
successful negotiation, which by a change of their
own policy, the United States were subsequently
able to effect, and after a short interval of ambig-
uous hostility confirmed the two nations in the re-
lations of peace.

The excitement occasioned in the United States,
by the publication of the despatches of the envoys,
was almost unexampled.

The demand of money for corrupt distribution,

236 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

was considered not merely as evidence of the
baseness and venality of an unprincipled govern-
ment, but resented as an insult on the integrity of
the United States. The proposed loan, which
certainly was no uncommon thing in national di-
plomacy, was connected without much judgment
in the public mind with the bribe, which was to
precede it ; and those who were not influenced by
questions of pretended honour, were terrified by
danger of national ruin.

A war fever, producing that delirium which is
the usual accompaniment of such an epidemic,
spread rapidly through the country, and was in-
flamed and aggravated by men, who in a subse-
quent period of our history discovered war to be
among the most terrible of all national calamities.

An impression was made on popular opinion
favourable to the administration of the national
government, so that the opposition, which had be-
fore nearly or quite divided the physical strength
of the country, rapidly lost its numerical force.
In the excitement, and under the delusion of the
moment, the residence of Mr. Gerry at Paris, was
severely censured by the administration, and his
immediate recall announced by the secretary of
state, in a letter which hardly preserved the form
of official civility

#

* This letter bearing date 25th June 1798, was communicated
to congress with the president's message covering Mr. Gerry's
despatches, and to most readers not particularly attentive to
dates, it would seem that his remaining in France was in viola-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 237

Preparation was made for a war, which was in-
tended to demonstrate the greatness and glory of
the United States. Its burthens could hardly be
felt at such a moment of unnatural irritation. The
condition, which the great party who had been in
opposition to the then administration had endeav-
oured to avert, appeared now rapidly approaching,
while they had for a time at least, lost that hold
on the good opinion of the public, which could
alone enable them to prevent it.

Mr. Gerry arrived in the United States on the
1st October 1798, and communicated to the secre-
tary of state the letters which had passed between
him and the French minister since the departure of
his] colleagues from Paris, with other proceedings
already adverted to.

These despatches were laid before congress on
the 15th of January 1799. Unwilling however to
permit them to go alone, and apprehensive of the
effect, which they might produce on the republi-
can party, broken in a good degree and disabled,
but by no means annihilated, the secretary follow-
ed them by a commentary, intended no doubt to
overwhelm Mr. Gerry with irretrievable disgrace,
to support the high and lofty pretensions of the
government, to keep up that fervour without which
armies, navies, taxes, and the appendages of milita-

tion of its order. But this letter was never received by Mr. Ger-
ry. If it was ever sent to Europe, it passed him on his return.
" My first knowledge of its existence," he says in a letter to the
president, " was in the public newspaper."

238 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ry institutions could not derive support, to gather
round the administration the pride, patriotism and
wealth of the nation, and to expose its opponents
to disgrace, as aliens to the interest and welfare
of their country.

There commenced at this moment a series of
measures which has marked the succeeding period
as the epoch of the reign of terror. The leaders
of the dominant party were carrying their policy to
extremes, which alarmed the eminent citizen who
presided in the councils of the country, and al-
though checked and controlled by his firmness and
the reproof which he bestowed on the most distin-
guished of those concerned, and particularly on
the secretary of state, whom he dismissed from
his station, it produced such reaction in the public
mind, as to destroy forever the ascendency of the
federal party in the United States.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 239

CHAPTER VII.

Commentary on the mission to France, and strictures on colonel
Pickering's publications in relation to it.

The most obvious subject of remark, on a re-
view of this extraordinary mission, is the submis-
sion of the envoys to communications with indi-
viduals producing no evidence of official rank ; the
affected secrecy of these intrusive agents ; and
the great consequence given to the affair, by the
minute recapitulation of every trifling circum-
stance, in official despatches to the American
government.

If the conduct of the envoys in these undignifi-
ed conferences was evidence of their anxiety for
peace, the detailed communication, which they
made of it, was not less calculated for war. It
is a single instance in the history of public mis-
sions that so much should be recounted, where
so little was performed ; although it cannot be
believed that the republican envoys were indeed
the first on whom the arts of European diplomacy
were essayed.

But the censure, if deserved, is divisible among
all the members of the embassy. In the report
of the secretary of state, the dissent of one of
them is no where intimated, although he was

240 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

aware that on the 20th October Mr. Gerry pro-
posed to his colleagues that they should put an
end to all informal negotiation.

It was so determined ; and the only subject of
regret, for which all of them are to account, is
found in their departure from this judicious reso-
lution.

The preference and selection of Mr. Gerry
from his colleagues, by the minister of the direc-
tory, is the next subject of remark, and has been
most adroitly used to the injury of his fame.

To be selected by an enemy implies treachery
to a friend. It has been said with sarcastic impu-
tation, that if the French government could treat
with him and not with his colleagues, he must
have been less attached to America than they
were, or more subservient than they would be to
the interests of France. The insinuation is made
with something of temper in the journal of one of
the envoys, it is brought forward in the report of
the American secretary, and alleged in plainer
terms in his subsequent review.

Could the inference be well drawn the fact
would indeed be disgraceful ; but it is not per-
ceived why, if any dependence is to be placed on
the allegations of the French minister, his whole
statement should not be received with equal credit,
and why therefore his refusal to receive Messrs.
Marshall and Pinckney as envoys of the United
States, on the pretence that they were English-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 241

men in their principles and policy, does not as well
establish that position, as his readiness to receive
Mr. Gerry proves him to have been French? The
truth is that no fair deduction, except a desire to
sow discord in the embassy and the country, can
justly be made from the conduct of this artful
diplomatist.*

Neither his language nor his conduct should be
received as evidence against the agents of the
United States. It was not what he thought, but
what they did ; not his imputations but their con-
duct, which establishes their character. The two
honourable men, on whom his offensive neglect
and pretended suspicion would fasten the traitor-
ous charge of being Englishmen at heart, refuted
the slander by the patriotism of their lives ; and
the other, whom his insidious flattery chose to in-
dicate as devoted to France, held the same shield
against his disreputable imputation. The rejec-
tion of the two envoys, on the pretence of their

* Mons. Talleyrand's own reasons for his preference of Mr.
Gerry, and rejection of his colleagues, were thus subsequently
stated.

"The advantages that I prized in him, are common to all
Americans who have not manifested a predilection for England.
Can it be believed that a man who should profess a hatred or
contempt of the French republic, or should manifest himself the
advocate for royalty, can inspire the directory with a favourable
opinion of the government of the United States. I should have
disguised the truth if I had left this matter ambiguous. It is not
to wound the independence of that government to point out to a
sincere friend of peace the shoals he ought to avoid." — Talleyrand
to Pichon, 28th August 1798.

VOL. II. 31

242 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

affiliation with English politics, was in accordance
with the language of intemperate passion, with
which a party in their own country charged a
whole class of their fellow citizens ; the selection
of the other, on the suggestion that he was more
attached to the schemes of the directory, was an-
other form of perpetuating those libels, with which
another class of the American public was assailed
at home. They are solemn warnings of the effect
produced abroad by internal dissension. In other
respects they are entitled to no regard. They
are equally unfounded and despicable. The tri-
umvirate had but one heart, and that was Ameri-
can to its core.

The minister of foreign affairs, in the name of
the directory, announced, " that they were dis-
posed to treat with that one of the three, whose
opinions, presumed to be more impartial, promise
in the course of the explanations more of that re-
ciprocal confidence which is indispensable."

What were those opinions ? The secretary of
state infers that they regarded points in connexion
with the embassy, and would imply some willing-
ness to yield in negotiation what the others would
withhold. This imputation is unfair and gratui-
tous. Mr. Gerry, in a commentary on this part of
the secretary's report presented to the president,
remarks :

" Whatever was presumed of my opinions, no
person at that time knew any thing of them in

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 243

regard to the embassy, except the envoys, and
therefore no comparison could possibly be made
between our opinions, if different in this respect.
But Talleyrand was informed of some opinions of
my colleagues, as he said, not relating to the em-
bassy, which had produced embarrassment and
dissatisfaction. I carefully avoided uttering or
writing any thing in regard to France, that might
offend either the government or people. When
I mixed with French citizens, I treated them with
attention and civility. If this conduct of mine
led the French government to think that my
opinions were more impartial than my colleagues
it is not a matter, which Mr. Pickering was au-
thorized to censure. "As to the prince to whom he
is sent, the ambassador should remember that his
ministry is a ministry of peace, and that on this
footing alone he is received ; this reason inter-
dicts every evil practice to him. Speaking ill
of the French government or nation would have
been an evil practice. I was justified in avoiding
it. Civility required a return of courtesies and
attention ; I could not dispense with the claims of
decorum. Some letters of the other envoys were
intercepted ; what they contained I know not, but
we were all alarmed on the occasion, and thought
it best to conceal our papers, lest a general order
for seizing them should be the consequence. It
was generally understood that the opinions, which
rendered the other envoys obnoxious in France,

244 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

were irrelevant to the embassy, fraught, according
to the French representations, with prejudices
against the French government and nation. No-
thing can therefore be more untrue than that the
disposition of the directory to treat with me was
the result of my not having as invincible a deter-
mination not to surrender the honour, the interest,
or the independence of my country, as either of
my colleagues."

It would seem from the foregoing remarks, that
a belief of Mr. Gerry's impartiality, in compari-
son with the other envoys, resulted less from any
knowledge of his opinions, than by the discovery of
theirs ; less from his being supposed to be friendly,
than because they were known or suspected to be
hostile.

Upon the subject of opinion however, which
under the management of the secretary of state,
in his official and subsequent publications, did
much to impair the reputation of Mr. Gerry, it
may be well to enquire how far it enters into the
appropriate character of a minister of peace. Why,
it may be asked, was Mr. Gerry selected by the
president, or opposed by his cabinet, but because
they believed his opinion of the proper American
policy differed in some respects from the party in
power ? Why did Mr. Hamilton propose Jefferson
or Madison as one of a mission to France, to be
joined by two citizens of the federal party, with
whom, on great questions of American policy,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 245

their opinions essentially differed ? Why was Mr.
Jay selected for a previous negotiation with Eng-
land but for this, among other reasons, that his
opinions presented no such obstacles to a treaty,
as would be found in the opinions of Jefferson,
Madison, or their friends ? Why was not Mr.
Cabot selected, who had been recommended by
Mr. Ames ? " Because," says president Adams,
" I knew his character and connexions were as
well known in France, particularly by Talleyrand,
as Mr. Gerry's were. It would have been inex-
cusable in me to hazard the success of the mission
merely to gratify the passions of a party." Hence
because of a difference of opinion between Mr.
Cabot and Mr. Gerry, the latter was preferred by
the president of the United States. When Mr.
Monroe was sent to France, it was distinctly inti-
mated that he was selected because he had entered
into the measures of her policy, and had repeat-
edly expressed his wishes for her success. When
that gentleman was recalled, " the choice of a
person in all respects qualified for the mission was
not without its difficulty. While a disposition
towards the administration, in which implicit con-
fidence might be placed, was a requisite not to be
dispensed with, it was also desirable that the per-
son employed should have given no umbrage to
the French government. No individual who had
performed a conspicuous part on the political theatre
of America fitted both branches of this descrip-

246 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

tion. All who had advocated in public with zeal
and with talents, the measures of the American
government, had been marked as the enemies of
France, and were on this account to be avoided."*
Personal opinions, not unfavourable to France,
were qualifications essential to a candidate, in the
opinion of Washington ; and the historian, who
mentions the circumstance, does it in a manner,
which admits its obvious propriety.

Notwithstanding the odium, which the well dis-
ciplined enemies of Mr. Gerry were able to cast
upon him, because his supposed opinions recom-
mended him to the favour of the government of
France, they knew that this favour was not per-
sonal to him, any more than his opinions were ;
but that both opinions and favour belonged to the
whole political class, of which he was a member,
and whom the French statesmen ignorantly be-
lieved to be attached to their interest. Thus Mr.
Pinckney wrote to the department of state,
" Those who regard us as being of some conse-
quence, seem to have taken up an idea that our
government acts upon principles opposed to the
real sentiments of a large majority of our people,
and they are willing to temporize, until the event
of the election of president is known ; thinking if
one public character Adams is chosen, he will be
attached to the interests of Great Britain, and that
if another character Jefferson is elected, he will be

* Marshall's Washington, 5 vol. p. G18,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 247

(to use the expression of Dupont de Nemours in
the council of Ancients,) devoted to the interests
of France."

The opinions, for which Talleyrand chose to
prefer Mr. Gerry, were those for which Mr. Mon-
roe had been selected, those which Washington
supposed his colleague Pinckney entertained ;
for the selecting of whom on that account, his
other colleague Marshall had lauded the first
president of the United States. Why the favour
shown to him by the French ministry, because of
those opinions, should be supposed to imply a
dereliction of duty, is to be accounted for only
by that intemperance of party spirit, which first
excites popular vengeance, and then devotes its
victims on its unappeasable altar.

That the French directory failed in its just re-
spect to the government of the United States, by
pretending to doubt the competency or the honour
of the colleagues of Mr. Gerry, because of their
opinions, is readily granted. The disgrace does
not attach to them. That the haughty ministers
of the republic might be expected to take such
course, seems to have been anticipated, by care in
other instances to prevent it. Its indecorum was
no security against its adoption. Nor was it ap-
plied solely to the United States. When nego-
tiations were proposed by lord Grenville on the
part of England, in June 1797 to conclude peace,
" the directory being informed, that the same

248 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

minister, lord Malmsbury, was deputed, Mons.
De la Croix signified the consent of the directory
that negotiations should be opened with lord
Malmsbury, another choice would however have
appeared to the directory to have argued more fa-
vourably to the speedy conclusion of peace." *

It is no where alleged, in express terms, that
any opinion of Mr. Gerry favoured a compliance
with the demand of money for corrupt distribution,
but the language of Mr. Pickering's publications
authorizes the inference, that in this respect Mr.
Gerry was more practicable than his colleagues.

Upon this subject, Mr. Gerry who saw only the
secretary's report, as *he died before the review
was written, has the following memoranda. The
injustice of Mr. Pickering's language is still more
manifest in regard to the much talked of do-
ceur, inasmuch as the envoys, when it was first
proposed, replied, " if we could see in France, a
temper sincerely friendly to the United States,
we might not regard a little money, such as is
stated to be usual, although we should hazard
ourselves by giving it." I am content to bear my
proportion of blame in this respect, although I did
not make the declaration or propose the answer ;
but I can see no fairness in attempts to load me
with censure, while this, which was the most re-
prehensible measure of the embassy, is passed in
silence, because it came from my colleagues.

* Belsham's Geo. 3. vol. v. p. 370.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 249

From the history of the embassy already nar-
rated, occasion was taken to allege that Mr.
Gerry was improperly engaged in separate inter-
views and secret negotiation with M. Talleyrand.
Such charges make a figure in the report of the
American secretary, are set down in 'the journal
of his colleague, and are enlarged upon and cen-
sured in a commentary on his conduct, subse-
quently published by Mr. Pickering.

There is something disreputable in secrecy and
separation; and the charge is odious enough to
gain attention, for whatever is vituperative excites
curiosity, and there is always malignity enough
to delight in defamation.

With how much exaggeration this matter has
been stated, will be seen by the following extract
from the controversial publication of Mr. Pick-
ering. He says :* " Thus slighted, thus insulted,
and kept at an offensive distance, Pinckney and
Marshall would not make to Talleyrand, what he
desired, inofficial visits to discuss official business.
Mr. Gerry however because he had seen Tal-
leyrand in the United States, in the form of an
emigrant was pleased, contrary to the opinion of
both his colleagues, to make him an early visit."

This statement is in contradiction to the official
despatches of all the envoys, in which they say
that general Pinckney and general Marshall not

* Pickering's Review, p. 116.
VOL. II. 32

250 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

being acquainted with M. Talleyrand, could not
with propriety call on him ; but that according to
the custom of France, he might expect this of Mr.
Gerry, from a previous acquaintance in America.*
A singular reason truly for either going or refusing
to go, but aji absolute negative of the injurious al-
legation before cited. Separated as the envoys
were from any regular intercourse with the agents
of the directory, and suspected as they knew
themselves to be of a disinclination to practicable
terms of peace, a scrupulous regard to etiquette,
and a voluntary seclusion from favourable chances
of breaking down unreasonable prejudice, were not
calculated to accomplish the object of their mis-
sion, f

* American state papers from 1797 to 1801, p. 199.

f Personal intercourse between diplomatic agents and the
government to which they are sent, has ordinarily been consid-
ered so important, that forms of etiquette and ceremony have
rarely prevented its being enjoyed. " Inofficial visits to discuss
official business" have greatly expedited desired results. For
reasons satisfactory to itself, the American government notified
Mr. Jackson the minister plenipotentiary of the king of Great
Britain to the United States, that all future discussion was to be
in the written form. His majesty's envoy chose to treat it as a
great indignity. " Considering that a very few days have
elapsed since I delivered to the president a credential letter from
the king, my master, and that nothing has been even alleged to
deprive me of the facility of access, and of the credit to which, by
immemorial usage, I am entitled, 1 believe there does not ex-
ist in the annals of diplomacy, a precedent for such a determina-
tion between two ministers who have met for the avowed pur-
pose of terminating amicably the existing differences between
their respective countries, but after mature reflection I am in-
ced to acquiesce in it by the recollection of the time that must

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 251

In a note on the separation from his colleagues,
as the charge stands in the secretary's report, Mr.
Gerry remarks, " If my conferences are complain-
ed of because they were separate, the other en-
voys were the cause. On the 30th December,
when Talleyrand expressed a wish to see me on
5th January, in order to make some communica-
tions, I noted the particulars, and soon after im-
parted them to my colleagues, informing them
that the conference proposed by Mons. Talley-
rand was a measure, which I could not accede to,
unless sanctioned by them ; that if they conceived
no injury could result from it, and that it might
give some information to them, which might be
useful, I would meet the minister, otherwise I must
decline, let the consequences be what they might
to myself, since good intentions are not all that is
expected of negotiators, who are often calumniated

necessarily elapse, before I can receive his majesty's commands
upon so unexpected occurrence, and of the detriment that would
ensue to the public service if my functions were in the interval
to be altogether suspended. I shall therefore content myself
with entering my protest against a proceeding, which I can con-
sider in no other light than as a violation in my person, of the
most essential rights of a public minister when adopted as in
the present case, without any alleged misconduct on his part.
As a matter of opinion, I cannot own I assent to the preference
which you give to written, over verbal intercourse for the pur-
pose of mutual explanation and accommodation. American
state papers, vol. 4. p. 11. These " inofficial visits to discuss of-
ficial business," which Mr. Jackson deemed it essential to preserve
by solemn protest, and which two of the envoys to France would
not permit, because they were not acquainted with Mons. Tal-
leyrand, is charged as a great fault on Mr. Gerry ! Pickering's
Review, p. 11G.

252 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

for measures truly meritorious. These were my
words to the other envoys, and they sanctioned
the meeting. Attempts to meet the minister be-
tween the 25th of January and 2d February, hav-
ing failed, I informed general Pinckney that it
was again proposed I should call on M. Talley-
rand on that day, and that I wished to confer with
him and general Marshall on that subject. We all
met, and I desired the other envoys to express their
opinions, because if they thought best, I would
excuse myself directly, if not, I wished to know
how to conduct myself in case of new propositions.
We all agreed that I ought to go, and were decisive
against a loan. On the 1st March, the last of the
days of the conferences, the secretary of Mons.
Talleyrand called on me, and said the minister
wished to see me. I waited on him and he stated
that he had appointed an interview for the en-
voys on the 2d, but he would confer with me on
the subject then. I answered no. I prefer a con-
ference in company with my colleagues, but that
if he would give his ideas of the general principles
of a treaty, such as France desired, I would pro-
pose to my colleagues that we should return him
a counter project, but he declined it, saying it
would give the directory unnecessary trouble, that
if the proposition of a loan was adjusted, every
thing else could be accommodated without difficul-
ty. On this we parted. Every thing that passed
at these interviews, except what related to the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 253

inadmissible proposition to me to treat separately,
was communicated to my colleagues, and the Oc-
tober and December conferences are published."

Terrible as seemed at first to these ceremoni-
ous envoys, the degradation of making inofficial
visits to discuss official business, they nevertheless
afterwards solicited and accepted an opportunity
of doing the very thing. " Events of magnitude
affecting the United States induced them to de-
part from this determination."*

The difference then between Mr. Gerry's con-
duct and his colleagues was, that he did early
what they did late. He found events of magnitude
affecting the interests of the United States on his
first arrival ; they did not permit them to influence
their conduct until the animosity of the French
government burst into a storm.

There can be no principle involved in this form
of intercourse, for certainly principle could not
yield to events differing only in a few degrees of
magnitude. 4

It is not easy to perceive why the envoys might
not as well see, converse and confer with Talley-
rand, as write to him. The minister was not the
government, nor as far as the Americans were con-
cerned, the authorised agent of the government.
The directory, the supreme power of the state,
it was well known to them, had not authorised
communications usual between ambassadors and

* Pickering's Review, p. 116.

254 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the nation, to which they are deputed. Yet unac-
credited and unacknowledged, they were willing
to write ; but to two of them, and to the American
secretary, inofficial visits seemed vastly objection-
able, and letters, which could merit no other ap-
pellation, quite admissible.

The reluctance of Mr. Gerry was not to an in-
terview with the minister, which he much preferred
to a conference with his agents, but to a separate
interview, which divided him from his colleagues.
His attempts to prevent a separation were inces-
sant, and as curious as they were unavailing.

Mons. Hauteval, designated in the despatches as
Z, introduced the American and French minister
as stated by him in his printed account.

The civility, thus paid by one member of the
embassy in his private capacity to the individual
holding the portfolio of the foreign department,
was returned by the customary politeness of an
invitation to a dinner. Mr. Gerry accepted it,
chiefly that on returning it he might break down
that wall of partition, which a misjudged ceremo-
ny prevented the envoys from attempting to pass.
This dinner will furnish a subject for remark, but
here it is proper to attend to the one given by the
American in return.

Mons. Talleyrand accepted an invitation to dine
with Mr. Gerry, and both his colleagues, the ladies
of their family, and several Americans and French-
men were collected at the festival.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 255

The culinary art was taxed to make the com-
pany agreeable. " I considered it," Mr. Gerry
remarks in his diary, " a dinner of business, and
hoped if my colleagues could not write, and would
not visit, they might possibly eat and drink them-
selves into notice; but it was a terribly dull affair.
I tried what I could at a compliment, and gave as
a toast, The government and citizens of the
French republic ; in expectation it would be drank
cheerfully, and the sentiment reciprocated, but it
was not till after some delay, and as was suggest-
ed not very great satisfaction, the minister gave
La liberte de mer.

Mons. Darche who is at the head of the bureau
for American affairs was present. It is since said
he is placed there as a check on Talleyrand, but
whether his presence or that of any Americans
who were there, or what else marred the freedom
of this interview, I know not."

The displeasure, if any existed, was not person-
al to Mr. Gerry. After dinner an intimation was
made, to him that Talleyrand was about to give a
grand ball to general and madame Bonaparte, at
which Mr. Gerry would be invited to attend.

" I desired Mr. Bellamy, who communicated
this notice," Mr. Gerry continues, " not to allow
a card to be sent to me, as I should be obliged to
decline if it came to me alone. Afterwards I in-
formed my colleagues candidly that my situation
was painful beyond all conception ; that when I

256 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

left the United States I determined to make every
possible personal sacrifice for the great objects of
the mission, and to accord with my colleagues, or
quit the embassy ; that when it was deemed pro-
per for me, having had with Talleyrand some ac-
quaintance in the United States, to pay him a
visit, I had submitted to it as a sacrifice of my
own feelings ; that the minister's attentions to me
separately, which have been the result of that
visit, have been extremely painful, however oblig-
ing under existing prejudices, they may be thought
here on the part of Talleyrand ; that I have spared
no pains to promote an extension to my colleagues
of the same attentions trifling as they are, under
an impression that personal interviews with the
department of state might cure existing personal
prejudices, that this dinner is the only one I have
been able to accomplish or am likely to ; that as
to the proposed compliment from Talleyrand, I
shall do as the envoys advise."

A card was sent to Mr. Gerry for this ball, and
none to his colleagues, who notwithstanding the
introduction made at the dinner, had neglected
calling on the minister, and according to French
etiquette were not entitled to expect an invitation.
Mr. Gerry's diary proceeds, " I had of course de-
termined to send my apology ; 1 4 NivoSc being
the day appointed, the secretary of Talleyrand
came in while I was at breakfast, and said he was
from the minister, who had charged him to inform

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 257

me that he depended on seeing me in the evening,
that the directory would be there, that they would
know of the invitation, and might consider my ab-
sence as a want of respect ; that Mons. Talleyrand
would probably introduce me to them, and that it
might advance the business of the mission ; at the
same time he presented a card of invitation to my
secretary, which he said was an extraordinary civi-
lity. I was distressed by the information, and
asked general Marshall's opinion on the proper
measure to be pursued. He said he thought I
ought to have been left to accept or not without
being thus urged, and that the decision must rest
on myself.

After weighing the subject, and reflecting that
it was an invitation from Mons. Talleyrand, (not
as minister) to me as a private gentleman, and
that a refusal might be seized as an excuse for
making our situation worse, which was now bad
enough, I determined to go to the ball, and to
avoid all political conversation. * *

In the course of the evening, I had some con-
versation with the Danish minister, He said he
was glad to see me here, as it looked like a pros-
pect of accommodation. On my enquiring what
was the state of Danish affairs, he said, very
bad, that the French continue to take Danish
vessels, and they give a reason curious enough,
that American vessels were not met with in such

vol. ii. 33

258 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

numbers as they used to be, and it was necessary
to take Danes in their room."

Whether an effort to pave the way for recep-
tion and conciliation was judiciously made by such
compliances, and whether the ambassador who con-
formed to the custom of the country, or those who
covered themselves from observation behind the
shield of etiquette and ceremony, best consulted
the obligations, which devolved on the ministers
of peace, must be settled by the judgment of their
fellow citizens.

" In my opinion," Mr. Gerry remarks, " the
American envoys were emphatically the ministers
of peace. Such were our instructions, such was
the avowed object of the administration, such was
the interest of the country, and such was the tem-
per of our people. There was no need of sending
us here to make war. For any belligerent rela-
tion, which our country was willing to assume,
there needed no apology. Wrongs almost innu-
merable justified an offensive attitude. We had
causes enough for war. But policy advised to
peace, and we came to make it, and it was in my
mind right to accomplish that object by all practi-
cable means. A concession of insignificant cere-
monies could not injure the honour, which had
survived the rejection of one minister and the
neglect of three ; or had submitted to be robbed
on the ocean and bearded under the very eye of
the government. The honour of our government

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 259

best consisted in its preservation. Destruction to
the finances, or ruin to the confederation would
not preserve its honour. Some matters were in-
deed of vital consequence. I would not submit
to degradation, nor express satisfaction at imposi-
tion ; but a man in the hands of robbers best con-
sults his honour in taking the surest means of self
preservation."

Of the secrecy imputed to him Mr. Gerry has
remarked, " My separate conferences with Tal-
leyrand were six in number, viz. on 28th October
and 17th December 1797, and 4th, 6th, and 7th of
February, and 1st March 1798. Those which were
secret, were the inevitable consequence of their
being separate. On 4th February, when Talley-
rand informed me he had something of vast impor-
tance to communicate, it was impossible for me to
divine what it was. It seemed probable that it
related to the government or the envoys. If it
should disclose the impediments to our being re-
ceived, the knowledge of them might tend to dis-
sipate them ; if some stratagem lurked in the
cover, it would be best broken by being known.
No minister, I apprehend, would ever lose infor-
mation because it was confidential, nor could any
injury arise to the people, the government or
agents of the United States from any intelligence,
which could be communicated to me."

The suggestion that there were negotiations,
separate and secret, between Mr. Gerry and Mons,

260 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Talleyrand is the invention of the enemy. He
heard Talleyrand's objections to his colleagues,
and endeavoured to remove them. He listened
unofficially and informally to the propositions made
to him, and refused to give them an official char-
acter. The conversations between these person-
ages were as wholly extra official, as any confer-
ence, which Mr. Marshall entered on his journal
with the nameless gentlemen who spoke with him
on American affairs.

Whatever steps Mr. Gerry took were to pre-
pare the way for a joint negotiation with the
whole embassy, and not to conduct one himself.
Against his public declarations, and the conduct
observed by him after the departure of his col-
leagues, in which he resists all efforts at negotia-
tion, declaring and reiterating the declaration that
a separate negotiation was impossible, it bears as
little the marks of honesty as truth, to charge
upon him the fact of a separate negotiation. His
whole course was marked by a strong disposition
to secure an honourable peace ; a task the more
difficult, because in the sincerity of the other
ministers the French government professed to feel
no confidence, and because their distance and cold-
ness and ceremony, unfortunately gave counte-
nance to the charge ; a task, which the spirit of
his instructions prescribed, his own principles en-
forced, the great party of his countrymen solicit-
ously desired, and the best interests of his country
demanded him if possible to secure.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 261

It was a task personally perplexing, inconve-
nient and laborious, but it was the sacrifice of
private feeling to public duty, and the hazard of
reputation in the service of the state, as a gallant
soldier exposes his life for his country.

Mr. Gerry remained in France after the depar-
ture of his colleagues, and the secretary of state
in his official report says, "unfortunately Mr.
Gerry was induced by the threats of an immedi-
ate war against the United States, to separate
from his colleagues and stay in Paris, threats which
viewed with their motives, merited only detesta-
tion and contempt."

The three envoys, in their joint letter to the
French minister of 3d April 1798, address him
as follows. " It is hoped the prejudices said to
have been conceived against the ministers of the
United States will be dissipated by the truths they
have stated. If in this hope they shall be disap-
pointed, and it should be the will of the directory
to order passports for the whole or any number of
them, you will please to accompany such passports
with letters of safe conduct, &c."*

On this application passports were furnished to

* General Marshall left France 16th April 1798. Mr. Gerry de-
manded his passports on 10th June, but could not obtain means
to leave Paris until 26th July. His departure from France was
so obstructed by the government, that the United States brig
Sophia, in which he took passage, was unable to sail from Havre
until 8th August. Every possible interruption was given, which
might retard his return home.

262 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Messrs. Marshall and Pinckney, but none were
sent to Mr. Gerry. The joint letter implies a
joint assent to such an act in this regard, as
France, without any agency on the part of the
envoys, might choose to observe. Mr. Gerry
could not leave France without permission. An
attempt to have done so would probably have been
a pretence for a haughty and unprincipled govern-
ment to have violated the law of nations, and to
have seized the persons and papers of the entire
embassy. " It has appeared to me," said presi-
dent Adams, at a subsequent period, " that Mr.
Gerry was as much a prisoner in France as any
individual in the walls of the Bastile."

So far as not peremptorily insisting on his pass-
ports was evidence of a voluntary continuance in
the French capital, he is amenable to the charge.

The reason alleged by him was the positive
threat of an immediate war.

If this threat was serious, and would have been
executed in case of his departure, the propriety of
his conduct depends on the question, whether the
then condition of the two countries was better for
the United States than open and declared hos-
tility.

If the declaration made was believed by him to
have been seriously intended, the propriety of his
conduct depends on the reasonableness of his be-
lief.

The secretary of state declares " suspense was

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 268

ruinous." His remaining did then suspend ac-
tual war. Was it ruinous thus to protract hos-
tility ? Mr. Gerry and his political friends con-
ceived almost any thing was less ruinous than
war. To prevent that calamity, to preserve the
young republic he represented from the waste
of treasure and life, which would be the conse-
quence of a contest with the gigantic victors of
Europe, to protect her from an alliance, which
would transfuse her young blood into the wither-
ing arteries of a decaying and debilitated associate,
and to prevent the collision of those fierce passions
which threatened the American people at home,
were the objects, which right or wrong detained
him at Paris, and brought down upon him the ven-
geance of a political adversary, who found that
the victim, which his party required, was fortu-
nately the individual, whom his own prejudices
would most readily select for the sacrifice.

But the secretary adds, " These threats should
have been despised. Four or five months before,
the threats of immediate orders to quit France and
the terrors of war in its most dreadful forms had
been held up to all the envoys."*

By whom ? Not by the minister, but by indi-
viduals without a document to prove their authori-
ty. The declaration of war to be made, which
induced Mr. Gerry to remain in Paris, was official,
from the minister of foreign affairs in the name of

* American state papers, vol. 4, p. 253, 2d edit.

264 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the directory. The condition of France gave
credibility to the declaration. Continental Europe
was at her feet. England she was preparing to
invade. It was her habit to ensure the success
of her schemes by the certainty and celerity of
execution. The credulity charged on Mr. Gerry,
did not arise from any respect for the justice, or
any admiration of the character of this formidable
adversary. He had declared to his colleagues
that " France was the proudest as well as most
unjust government on the face of the earth, so
elevated by victory as to hold in perfect contempt
all the rights of others, and that with this disposi-
tion she would make war if we refused to comply
with what her pride would insist on because it had
been proposed."*

To one who might have anticipated the publica-
tion of the envoys' despatches to the government
of the United States, a residence at Paris long
enough to wait their return could not have been
a very desirable position.

Haughty and unaccommodating, the rulers of
France regarded neither the laws of nations nor
the security of public ministers.

Before the arrival of the American plenipoten-
tiaries, they had sent off thirteen foreign ministers,
and in the insolence of their pride were not likely
to regard the Americans as entitled to more respect
than Geneva or Genoa. At that period the Portu-

* Marshall's Journal, MS.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 265

guese minister was in the temple, the Roman en-
voy confined to his house under guard, the Spanish
ambassador was ordered beyond the boundary of
France, and the envoy of republican America, who
had discovered and disclosed the cupidity and pro-
fligacy of the directory and its minister, might
reasonably expect one of those domiciliary visits
against which his public character afforded no pro-
tection, and which led to the conciergerie or the
guillotine. Of such a position of affairs the Ameri-
can secretary was satisfied. A despatch boat had
left the United States with instructions to the
messenger, who sailed in her, containing the fol-
lowing significant notice.

" It is important that the envoys be out of
France, (unless as before mentioned, they have
treated or are in treaty) because it is very proba-
ble their despatches No. 1 to 5, will in a few days
be laid before congress."

An interval of ten days between the reception
of this notice and the arrival of the printed com-
munications in Paris, enabled the American min-
ister to secure his papers from being violated and
to prepare for meeting in his own person whatever
the insolence or rage of the government might de-
nounce.

It came in the moderated form of a demand for
the names of the intrusive intriguers, who taking
advantage of the isolated situation of the Ameri-
can envoys, had played on their credulity and

vol. ii. 34

266 LIFE OF ELI1RIDGE GERRY.

amused them by pretences of influence or agency.
It suited the policy of the French minister to deny
for himself all knowledge of the concern, and to
laugh at that easy credulity which had converted
the babble of a court and the prattle of ladies into
grave matters of public interest and deep schemes
of crafty diplomacy. That there was some shrewd-
ness in this movement of the French Machiavel
cannot be doubted. Whatever of folly was justly
imputed to the Americans, belongs not exclusively
to the subject of this memoir, but to those col-
leagues of his " whose respectable talents"* none
of their fellow citizens ever ventured to deny.

While the situation of Mr. Gerry in France was
thus unpleasant and hazardous, his family, left
under the protection of his country and her laws,
were exposed to every measure of indignity. It
suited the excited passions of the people, or rather
the policy, which was busied in causing this ex-
citement, to invoke maledictions upon him, and as
he was beyond the reach of their personal opera-
tions, to visit his political sins upon an unoffending
lady and her harmless infants, as in the barbarous
periods of English history families were swept off
for the conduct of their chief.

Letters anonymous or feigned, imputing his
continuance in France to causes most distressing:
to a wife and a mother, in such forms as would
give them the appearance of real correspondence,

* Pickering's Review.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 267

were conveyed to her by almost every post. On
several occasions the morning's sun shone upon a
model of a guillotine erected in the field before
her window, smeared with blood, and having the
effigy of a headless man. Savage yells were
uttered in the night time to disturb the sleep of
this family of females, and the glare of blazing
faggots suddenly broke upon its darkness, to ter-
rify them with the apprehensions of immediate
conflagration.

In a land of law and civil liberty these were the
penalties, which were awarded to the helpless
family of a distinguished citizen ; this the protec-
tion of a community to whose independence his
early life was devoted. This that refinement of
manners, which expressed its abhorrence of the
jacobins of Paris, and denounced contemptuously
the democrats of New England ! Truly the age
of chivalry was gone !

Nor is such unmanly and dishonourable conduct
to be charged merely to low and vulgar villains,
who were the immediate perpetrators. More emi-
nent citizens, by a conduct as unfeeling, though
less exposed to legal animadversion, added to
the wounds which the common principles of hu-
manity would have endeavoured to soothe rather
than inflame, and countenanced by silence, indif-
ference or scorn, the wantonness of insult, in which
their pride would not allow them more actively to
engage.

268 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Mr. Gerry's own view of the benefit to be ob-
tained by residing in France after the departure
of his colleagues, is explained in his correspond-
ence. To the president of the United States he
says, " I expected my passport with my colleagues,
but am informed the directory will not consent to
my leaving France, and to bring on an immediate
war contrary to their wishes would be in my mind
unwarrantable."

To Mr. Murray, minister of the United States
at the Hague, who had expressed a desire for par-
ticular information he replies, " Your information
as respects my consent to stay in Paris for the
present is just. Your inference ' to be accredit-
ed' is wrong. The alternative presented to my
choice having been my residence here or a rupture,
1 have chosen the former. I flatter myself you
know me too well to suppose that an official re-
ception, a mere civility, could have the weight of
a feather in forming in my mind so important a
decision ; if I had an ambition of that kind it has
been and is now in my power to gratify it, but for
this I would not give a sol. All personal consid-
erations are against my remaining here."

To Mr. King, minister of the United States at
London, who adopting the views of his political par-
ty, with the freedom of long friendship pressed him
not to remain, he writes on the 3d May, " Wheth-
er the directory have settled a plan concerning
America, and what it is, I am still to learn, but

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 269

sure I am, our independent rights and just preten-
sions shall not be impaired by my conduct. I am
sorry you are so severe on this government, or be-
ing so disposed, that your letter was not in cypher,
because I have hopes our affairs will be amicably
settled, if not rendered desperate by suspicions
and prejudice. I cannot say what will be the
opinion of the president, or of his constituents re-
specting my conduct in remaining here, but I will
do nothing that I cannot justify to my own mind,
and which I am not clearly convinced ought to
merit their approbation. I have no personal views
in remaining, and the moment I can reconcile this
government to my departure, I shall embark for
the United States ; in the mean time with due
attention to your friendly councils, I must be gov-
erned by my own judgment.

My situation, from a short period after my arrival,
has been extremely painful, and has only present-
ed a prospect of censure from one or other of the
political parties, which divide our country and its
councils. Thus circumstanced I could only de-
termine to pursue as primary objects, the honour,
interest and welfare of the United States ; our
independence I flatter myself is not in the least
danger. These I have invariably pursued, and I
believe this government is so well convinced of it,
that was I to enter into negotiation, no proposition
would be made to me with the hope of success,
which would militate against them."

270 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

To Mr. Murray again he thus writes. " I am
favoured with your's of the 20th May, and have
been prevented from answering it sooner by the
embarrassments, resulting from the arrival of the
newspapers here containing our informal negotia-
tions with persons presenting themselves as agents
of this government. Before this event I was offi-
cially informed that France had no disposition for
hostilities, that an arrangement of our affairs then
under consideration would soon be made, and that
I should find it perfectly agreeable to me. This
information was accompanied with the prospect of
completing the business in the United States by a
person to be sent out for that purpose. What
will be the consequence of these publications time
only will determine."

To a gentleman who had forwarded him by ex-
press the despatches published in America, advis-
ing him to withdraw from France before their con-
tents were made known, and urging upon him the
danger of his situation he writes,

" I have received your letter with the copies of
the despatches enclosed. The prospect of a ten
years' imprisonment would not induce me to quit
this country as a fugitive."

The benefits actually resulting from his resi-
dence in France were, to use his own language,
first, an express renunciation on the part of France
of loans ; second, of reparation for president's
speeches ; third, of a renunciation of a demand

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 271

upon the United States to assume debts due her
citizens ; fourth, a disclaimer of any wish that we
should dissolve the British treaty ; fifth, an admis-
sion of our claims for captures, founded on the
want of a role d? equipage ; sixth, advances towards
a new negotiation ; and seventh, the actual pre-
servation of peace.*

While Mr. Gerry's object, at the expense of
personal comfort and hazard of fame, was to give
his country the option of peace or war, the govern-
ment of the United States was pursuing its course
with decision and energy, and having selected
their alternative, do not seem to have found that
suspense was ruinous. There was no suspense.
The executive acted as if all the envoys had been
ordered from the French territory, and it may well
be doubted whether any personal hazard to Mr.
Gerry would for a moment have obstructed the
measures of the secretary of state.

On 22d May an act of Congress was passed
authorizing the president of the United States to
raise a provisional army,f and soon afterwards

* Minutes of conference with the president. — MS.

f In prospect of a war with France, Mr. Hamilton had re-
commended "an army of fifty thousand men, ten thousand of
them to be horse."

" Such an army without an enemy to combat would have
raised a rebellion in every state in the union. The very idea of
the expense of it would have turned president, senate and house

out of doors. Yet such was the influence of Mr. Hamilton

in congress, that without any recommendation from the presi-
dent, they passed a bill to raise an army, not a large one indeed,

272 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Washington was commissioned lieutenant-general.
On 28th of the same month, authority was given
to the navy of the United States to seize vessels
under the flag of France, which had committed
any depredation on the American commerce. On
13th June the commercial intercourse between
the United States and France was suspended.
On 7th July the treaties concluded with France
were declared no longer binding on the United
States. On the 9th, under the title of an act to
protect the commerce of the United States, au-
thority was given to issue letters of marque and
reprisal. To this measure followed, as a necessary
consequence, other acts for increasing the naval
force, for direct and indirect taxation, and for ap-
propriating the revenue among the new officers of
government. The alien law was passed on 25th
June, and the sedition law on 14th July. All this
was done during a period when the " suspense,"
created by Mr. Gerry's residence in France was
declared to be " ruinous." The meaning of which,
if any meaning be attached to the phrase, is that
the uncertainty of peace or war, created by his
conduct, retarded or diminished preparation for
hostility. It is difficult to understand how the
most positive assurance and certainty of a bellige-
rent attitude could have expedited or increased
military preparations sooner or more extensively

but enough to overturn the then federal government. — Adams*
letters, p. 68.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 273

or what stronger position could be taken to place
in the power of the administration the force and
wealth of the nation.

Of a measure resulting from so serious an act
as a division between the members of a joint em-
bassy, in which one of them remained in opposi-
tion to the opinion of both his colleagues, it is
feeble praise to say only that it was not wrong;
It involved a great and hazardous responsibility, not
lightly to be assumed, and not to be justified by
trifling advantages. But under the circumstances
in which the government and people of the United
States were situated, it is not possible that a pro--
ceeding, which might change the neutral relations
of the country for a belligerent attitude, could be in-
different to its most vital and permanent interests.

Had Mr. Gerry demanded his passports, or re-
turned in defiance of the threats of the French
government, the war, which they menaced, might
not indeed have been waged by them, but the con-
dition of affairs in the United States must inevi-
tably have produced it. Negotiation would have
ended. The first minister was rejected. A solemn
and dignified embassy was repulsed, and insulted,
and driven from the country. The causes of com-
plaint for past injuries were not diminished ; new
evils were accumulating, and the only alternative
would have been the humbleness of submission or
the activity of resistance. War was inevitable.

To speak lightly of such a condition of the

vol. ii. 35

274 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

country comports as little with the wisdom of a
statesman as it does with the piety of a Christian.
If in itself war be not the greatest misery that
could fall on a community, it certainly has an
alarming tendency to produce it. The courage,
the patriotism, and the self-sacrifice of a generous
people may, by the blessing of heaven, carry them
safely through its storms ; but its clouds then
threatened wider devastation than its ordinary
ravages. There was danger of civil commotion ;
there was apprehension of foreign alliance, as fatal
as the embrace of the disguised statue to her igno-
rant admirers. There was hazard that the young
tree of liberty planted on our shores, whose branch-
es now luxuriantly expanding, were then but be-
ginning to spread themselves, and whose root was
scarcely fixed in the earth, would be blown down
in the whirlwinds that must prematurely assail it.
There was danger that an inconsiderate rashness
would, like another Erostratus, sacrifice the last
temple of rational liberty.

By remaining in France, Mr. Gerry kept open
the door of negotiation. He received and com-
municated assurances that the French directory
were not obstinately determined on hostilities ;
that they would negotiate, whenever the character
and sentiments of the American agents should
satisfy them they could do so with prospect of suc-
cess. In the short period that elapsed between
the departure of his colleagues and his own, Mr.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 275

Gerry acquired a persuasion of this fact, and suc-
ceeded with some difficulty indeed, but neverthe-
less succeeded in making this known to his own
government, and the people of his country.

In brief space after his return a new embassy
was appointed ; the secretary, who had found in
his conduct an obstacle to his views or his policy,
and laid out his official strength to prostrate his
good name, had himself been made to drink of the
waters of bitterness, and to find the poisoned
chalice commended to his own lips. Peace, firm,
honourable, lasting peace was concluded with the
French republic, and the popular sentiment so
thoroughly changed that the whole administration,
chiefly by the impetus given by their war councils,
was overthrown.

The peace, which the American government
preserved, has been claimed as the consequence,
not of negotiation but arms. It has been said the
preparation for war prevented it. But the opera-
tion of the public sentiment refutes this opinion.
Preparation for war unhorsed the riders of the war-
steed, while to the dominant and victorious nation,
against whom it was directed, it was too small an
addition to the vast force they had subjugated, to
create any sensation of alarm.

The executive chief burst the bonds, with which
his cabinet had endeavoured to bind him, too late
for his personal elevation indeed, but soon enough
for his country and his fame. Against their advice

276 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

and approbation he acted on the prospects, which
negotiation held out, and acted with success ; and
might well say, in relation to this and another
incident of his administration, not connected with
this subject, that " they were two measures that
I recollect with infinite satisfaction, and which
will console me in my latest hour."* " He [Mr.
Gerry] was nominated and approved and finally
saved the peace of the nation ; he alone discovered
and furnished the evidence that X, Y, and Z, were
employed by Talleyrand ; and he alone brought
home the direct formal official assurances, upon
which the subsequent commission proceeded and
peace was made."f

Long before this satisfactory declaration was
offered to Mr. Gerry, by the distinguished chief
from whom his appointment had proceeded, and
while yet the public mind was abused by the phi-
lippics, which had been launched against his con-
duct and character, his own conscious rectitude of
intention was gratified, and his wounded spirit
consoled, and cheered and comforted by high tes-
timonials of approbation bestowed upon him by
the great head of the republican party, whose en-
comiums may be placed in contrast, although they
overwhelm by their incomparably superior value

* President Adams' letters, No. 10, p. 47.
t Ibid, letter 13, p. 65.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 277

the vituperations of an angry and mortified politi-
cal rival.*

If it has been the lot of few indivinuals, against
whom neither treachery nor corruption could be
alleged, to be more severely censured than was
Mr. Gerry for his share of this memorable embas-
sy, so probably no man can boast of more ardent
or honourable praise. The testimony of the two
great statesmen, who by different parties were
placed at the head of the nation, and thus together
may be said to have represented each separate
part of the people, is placed in credit against the
charges of that bold account, by which a few in-
temperate partizans would have made him bank-
rupt in character and fame.t

How well he discharged the duty assigned to
him is yet an open question, which neither the au-

* The great length of Mr. Jefferson's letters would of itself
prevent their insertion, but there are remarks in them, which
communicated as they were under the seal of confidence the
author does not feel at liberty to disclose. He represses his
desire to publish them with great reluctance.

f A petty punishment was devised by Mr. secretary Pickering
for the contumacy of Mr. Gerry.

On June 20, 1799, he thus addresses him, "I consider your
stay in France after the 12th of May, when my letter of March
23, 1798 was delivered to you as perfectly gratuitous, and con-
sequently that your salary ceased on May 12, excepting the al-
lowance of one quarter's salary for your return according to
usage."

On an appeal to the president, after Mr. Marshall was secre-
tary of state, this decision of the former secretary was reversed.

278 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

thority of Adams and Jefferson in his favour, nor
of Pickering, such as it is, against him, will con-
clusively determine. There is an appeal to the
people ; not to a people excited by intemperate
political feeling and party zeal, but to a people
calm, intelligent and dispassionate ; to posterity,
who will set in judgment on the great men of the
past age, when the little causes of private hos-
tility shall have been buried in the silence of the
grave ; posterity who will be able to mark the dif-
ficulties, which any measure would have presented,
and the thousand roads of deviation with the one
solitary and obscure path, which the wise political
traveller should have selected and steadily main-
tained.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 21 9

CHAPTER VIII.

Commentary on the missioii continued Further strictures on Mr.

Pickering's publication.

Of the circumstances occurring after the de-
parture of the two envoys, the most important are
those, which ensued when their despatches had
returned from America. These probably changed
the whole complexion of the case. Mr. Gerry
communicated to Talleyrand at his request the
names of those individuals, whose discourse about
loans and doceurs was conveyed to the American
government. This forms another allegation against
the propriety of his conduct.

There is something so ludicrous in finding in
the diplomatic despatches of an important em-
bassy grave discourse with people, who have
neither local habitation nor a name, save at the
end of the alphabet, that it is almost forgotten ;
these diminutive appellations were inserted not
by the envoys but by the secretary of state.*

On the return of these despatches to France
and to Europe, the envoys were exhibited as the
subjects of an intrigue too base to permit even its
agents to be named. But the implication, for in
diplomatic arrangements insinuations often supply

* American state papers, vol. 3. p. 475. 2d ed.

280 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

■

the place of facts, plainly was that the French di-
rectory or its minister had endeavoured for their
own corrupt purposes to impose on the unaccredit-
ed envoys, and taking advantage of the isolated
condition in which they kept themselves, pro-
posed to open a passage to the French govern-
ment by bribery and fraud.

Whatever was the truth of the case, no course
was left but for the French minister to pretend
ignorance of the whole transaction, and demand,
with the show of indignation, who it was that
thus had offended the government, and tampered
with envoys at its court ?

The demand being made of the only individual,
who was in a condition to answer it, Mr. Gerry
might have refused to reply ; and his silence would
have been trumpeted through Europe as evidence
of the fabrication, which in the spirit of a war
party its ministers had circulated to rouse the in-
dignation they were desirous of producing.

Or Mr. Gerry might have said, you Mr. min-
ister know who they were : you employed, au-
thorized, countenanced and directed them. You
saw them with the American envoys, you knew
what they were saying, doing, desiring, soliciting.
You knew we refused to accede to their proposi-
tions, and you would not receive us. They were
your agents, and it is an insult for you to ask me
their residence or their name.

To such an honest expression of the truth

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 281

Talleyrand would reply, Sir, if your allegations
are true, produce me the credentials, which en-
titled them to be received by you as my agents,
or in want of such evidence, be contented that you
and your colleagues shall be deemed dupes to sharp-
ers, who came to you without authority, and that
you sir, in addition, should stand accused before
Europe with aiding their machinations by a de-
claration that you cannot maintain. They were
not my agents. Your assertions are not warrant-
ed by the fact.

In this issue of fact between Mr. Gerry and
M. Talleyrand, to have called individuals within
the reach of the gens d'armorie of Paris to testify
to the truth of their agency, could hardly have
been prudent, and the Frenchman by the advan-
tage of position, which his sagacity originally fore-
saw, was enabled to stand securely on his defence.
There was a third course. It was to answer
the question strictly and literally.

Who are the individuals intended by the letters
X, Y, Z, &c. in your despatches.

They are Mr. Hottinguer, Mr. Bellamy, and
Mr. Hauteval. If you knew them before, as I
believe you did, my answer gives you no addition-
al information ; if you did not, punish them for
an imposition mutually on you and us.

The whole error is to be traced to the informal
conferences with individuals not bearing any cre-
dentials, and whose authority the French minister
vol. ii. 36

282 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

might affirm or deny at his pleasure ; and this er-
ror is to be shared in common by all the envoys.
If their proportion is unequal, Mr. Gerry's is the
least, as he first proposed its termination.*

To these material charges some others of infe-
rior nature, to increase the weight of popular in-
dignation, have at times been added. Thus it was
gravely said that Mr. Gerry was at a private din-
ner with Mons. Talleyrand, where the business of
the money was discussed. f A private dinner seem-
ed to mark a degree of intimacy and unwarrant-
able compliance, which alarmed the minds of our
plain republican citizens, to whom the corruptions
and the manners of a court are equally matters of
mystery. It was true that in the effort to estab-
lish that interchange of civility, which might lead
to a mutual good understanding, Mr. Gerry dined
at the table of the French minister, who in return

* Mr. Pickering intended in his report to have charged the
whole of this informal mismanagement to Mr. Gerry.

As it was draughted it reads thus. Paragraph 34. " While we,
amused and deluded by warm but empty professions of the pa-
cific views and wishes of France, and by Mr. Gerry's informal
conferences might wait in fruitless torpor hoping for a peaceful
result."

This part was amended by Mr. Adams, who caused the words,
" Mr. Gerry's" to be erased, whereby the impropriety, if there
was one, was attributed to the whole embassy, and not to any
individual.

The disingenuousness of an attempt to charge the informal
conferences on Mr. Gerry alone, who was the first of the three
to propose their termination, is only a specimen of the whole of
the secretary's report.— See Pickering's Review, p. 131.

t Pickering's Review, p. 141.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. &§§

for this customary form of politeness, was invited
to the hotel of the American envoy. The dinner
at Talleyrand's was what is called a private din-
ner, in opposition to those dinners called public*
in which the ministers of the directory were ac-
customed to receive the public functionaries. It
was in fact as public as forty or fifty guests of
different classes, countries and sexes would per-
mit. At such a private dinner was the money
concerns of the American embassy supposed to be
brought into discussion, and in such privacy was
it that the American envoy was plotting treason
against the rights of his country !

Mr. Gerry on two or three occasions failed of
finding M. Talleyrand at his bureau, and although
the secretary of the latter made an apology* for
his absence, the fact has been adduced to show
the slight regard he paid to the American envoy. f
In offset to this it has been alleged that he be-
came the dupe of the French minister's threats,
mingled with blandishments flattering to his vani-
ty. He had even the folly to imagine his col-
leagues envious of his good fortune. J

* Mr. Pickering says, " one of Talleyrand's secretaries called
to make a slight apology." This slight mode of speaking shows
the temper of the party who uses it. How was it possible for
Mr. Pickering to ascertain whether the apology was slight or
formal, serious or delusive. It was an apology brought by the
principal secretary of the minister's bureau.

f By the barbarous calendar adopted in the country, it was
difficult always to remember when it was the Frenchman's sab-
bath. Mr. Gerry went once on a decade and the office was closed.

X Pickering's Review, p. 127.

284 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Thus inconsistent is the hostility, which pursues
an opponent without justice or principle.

The vanity to be flattered by slight apologies,
by neglect and by studied disrespect, or the want
of consequence which is subjected to repeated
disappointments, and yet persuades a man to im-
agine others are jealous of his importance, is in-
deed a singular union of dissimilar materials. The
imputations cannot both be true, although both
may be unfounded. As circumstances occurred
at one or another time they would serve like the
artifices at the hustings to be played off before dif-
ferent auditories against a political rival.

In giving an account of the business of the em-
bassy there are some curious suggestions by Mr.
Pickering in his review, which serve further to
explain with what temper and feeling he draught-
ed his celebrated official report.

Thus he says, " A letter* having been prepared
and submitted to Mr. Gerry, and he having em-
ployed a day in making essential changes to adapt
it to his own taste, to which the other two envoys
yielded for the sake of unanimity, on 11th Novem-
ber it was sent to M. Talleyrand. No answer
however was given to it."

" Three months [meaning two] having elapsed,
general Marshall draughted a long letter consisting
of a justification of the conduct of our government
in relation to France. This was done by 10th

* Review, p. 117.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 285

January 1798. It was submitted to Mr. Gerry,
(whose humour it was necessary to consult to obtain
his signature) to suggest any alterations and amend-
ments he might think proper." " Mr. Gerry's
vexatious delays prevented the completion and
translation of this letter until the 31st January,
when it was signed and sent to the French min-
ister."

The reading of these letters might satisfy any
one that, as they stand, they have spirit and lire
enough to vindicate the policy of their government,
and are tart enough for messages of peace. Mr.
Gerry's taste must have been gratified then by some
modification of their causticity, and his humour,
which it was necessary to consult, was not of that
acrid and angry kind, which deemed irritating ex-
pressions to be means of accomplishing an object
so judicious as less intemperate language.

But the suggestion that a minister's humour and
taste must be consulted before his signature can
be obtained to state papers of immense conse-
quence to himself and his nation, is indeed won-
derful ! As if a man of independence and integ-
rity would place his signature to papers that dis-
pleased him, or which he had not sufficiently ex-
amined. The reviewer, it would seem, calculated
on Mr. Gerry's signature as a matter of course.
Because according to his language in another
place, " men of such respectable talents, untainted
honour and pure patriotism as generals Pinckney

286 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

and Marshall, and in whom their government and
country reposed entire confidence," had prepared
an official paper, the attestation of the remaining
member of the embassy was to be given without
delay.

This was not the mode of reasoning adopted by
that member. Whatever slight was by political
opponents thrown upon his talents, his patriotism,
or his fame, he felt that his country had long and
steadily reposed as great confidence in him as it
had ever done in his colleagues, and that it was
due to himself and his fellow citizens to examine
and deliberate, and then to decide.

While however the reviewer complains of his
vexatious delays, his health was suffering under
the effect of continual exertions, and his secretary,
absolutely unable to accomplish the task imposed
upon him, resigned his office.*

The letter was indeed a " long; letter" covering
fifty-four closely printed pages of letter prcss,f and
which, being drawn without previous concert, re-

* Extract from a letter of resignation of B. Foster, jr., Mr.
Gerry's private secretary, dated March 30, 1798. " It has heen a
source of much uneasiness and regret to me that I have heen
under the necessity of declaring before my inability to get
through so much voluminous writing, as has appeared in the
course of the negotiation."

t American state papers, vol. 4. p. 27 to 80, inclusive, 2d edit.
It may excite some surprise that in a joint mission long letters
should be prepared by one or two of the members apart from
their colleague, and before principles had been settled at a con-
ference.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 287

quired to be examined and compared with sundry
authorities ; and finally, in conforming to the taste
and humour of the colleague to whom it was submit-
ted, to undergo discussion and alteration in some
places, and to be preserved in its original form in
others, after proposed amendments, " for the sake
of unanimity," were withdrawn.

The review proceeds: " On the 18th January,
at the instance of the directory, the two legislative
councils passed a decree," &c. " On 6th Febru-
ary, general Marshall put into Mr. Gerry's hands
the draught of a letter to the French minister, re-
monstrating against that decree and closing with
a request for passports. But Mr. Gerry was too
busily engaged with his secret negotiations with
that minister to attend to the letter, though it
would affect nearly every American vessel on the
ocean. On 14th February Mr. Gerry returned the
draught of the letter with some amendments. It
was then put under copy and translated. On the
l«Jth, being fully prepared it was offered to Mr.
Gerry to sign which he declined."*

As no letter appears in the despatches of the
envoys, without his signature, it is a just con-
clusion, either that the reasons, by which Mr.
Gerry maintained his change of opinion, were
satisfactory to his colleagues, or that they carried
their desire to consult his taste and humour to an
extraordinary length.

* Review, p. 119.

288 LIFE OP ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Something of the mode, by which the business
of the embassy was managed, and how the delays
complained of occurred, may be discovered in the
following notes.

MR. PINCKNEY TO MESSRS. MARSHALL AND

GERRY.

Paris, April 2, 1798.

Gentlemen,
I think it of importance that no longer delay
should take place in transmitting our reply to the
minister of foreign affairs. Duty to our country
and justice to ourselves require that his letter
should not remain unanswered ; and I am very
apprehensive, if we do not make it soon, we shall
be prevented from making it at all. The latter
part of the letter which Mr. Gerry took with him
to consider, he said should be attended to imme-
diately. If he cannot join his colleagues in what is
there expressed, and cannot suggest such alterations
as they can accede to, we ought then to determine
what prudence and duty may dictate. But I am
for avoiding an apparent admission, by our silence,
of the unjust and injurious charges made against
our country, our government, and ourselves. I
see so much danger resulting from delay, that I
am unwilling it should be imputable to me, I there-
fore think it incumbent on me to give you my sen-
timents freely on this subject, and hope by to-mor-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 289

row morning we shall come to some decision.
Mr. Burling requests to have any despatches we
may wish to transmit by him to America the day
after to-morrow.

I have the honour to be, very respectfully,
Your most obedient servant,

Charles Cotesworth Pinckney.
Messrs. Marshall and Gerry.

MR. GERRY TO MR. PINCKNEY.

Paris, April 2, 5 P. M.

Mr. Gerry presents his compliments to general
Pinckney, and informs him that he is ready at any
moment to finish the letter proposed as an answer
to the minister of foreign affairs. He has made
one attempt to obtain this object, but his proposi-
tions not having been entirely acceptable to gene-
ral Marshall, he thought it best to present in one
point of view the draught as he proposes it, and it
is now ready. He has suggested no alterations but
such as appear to him indispensably necessary to
prevent further irritation on the part of this govern-
ment : the charge on our part of wantonly plung-
ing the United States into a war : and future em-
barrassments to our government and ourselves.
He shall certainly accord in this final measure with
his colleagues, if possible, as he deprecates a dif
ference of opinion with them, on the important

vol. ii. 37

290 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

and embarrassing affairs of the embassy. Mr.
Gerry's health is not good at present, but he has
not from that or any consideration neglected a
moment, the business alluded to.

The letter referred to covers twenty-six pages
of letter press, and its review and examination by
one of the embassy, might reasonably require at
least, as much time as was demanded by the other
two for its original preparation.

So in respect to the others. A joint mission has
the advantage of combined learning and ability,
but it necessarily supposes the delay which is inci-
dent to difference of sentiment, and discussion of
opinion.

The vituperative spirit of the reviewer cannot
but be seen in the manner in which the delay is
stated. Mr. Marshall and Mr. Pinckney prepare a
letter on the 10th January. Mr. Gerry's vexatious
delays prevent the completion and translation until
the 31st. The inference intended but not express-
ed would put the whole of this interval to his ac-
count. But how many of the twenty- one days
were consumed in a revision, how many in acced-
ing to or rejecting the alterations, and how many
in making a translation and in copying the dupli-
cates is not exactly ascertained.

Not satisfied with speaking slightly of Mr. Gerry
in connexion with the Jrench mission, which was

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 291

the only topic that introduced his name into the
review, Mr. Pickering has seemed desirous of
taking all opportunity to underrate the character of
his mind, the value of his services, the estimate in
which he was held by his associates, and the
causes by which his public stations were procured.
His mind is every where represented as diminu-
tive, his services inconsiderable, his reputation
exceedingly limited, and his place in the public
councils accidental and fortuitous.

How much of this picture, made up of dark
lines and gloomy colouring, is drawn from ima-
gination by political animosity, or how truly it re-
flects the individual, whose likeness it pretends to
exhibit, the facts stated in these volumes and the
proof of those facts, under the hand of contempo-
rary patriots, must be permitted to decide.

No claim was ever made by or for Mr. Gerry " to
that gigantic and stupendous intelligence, which
grasps a system by intuition, and bounds forward
from one series of conclusions to another without
regular steps through intermediate propositions,"
but it is not easy to see any thing in his public
performances, at which a dismissed secretary was
authorized to sneer. To sound good sense, and
the improvements of a liberal education, to an
uncompromising integrity, which even the most
angry of his opponents has acknowledged, to long
and arduous attendance in the school of the patri-
ots, and to multiplied opportunities of being con-

292 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

cerned in the responsible direction of great public
affairs is he indebted for that estimation, in which
he stood with his fellow citizens, and the relative
rank, which the judgment of posterity will assign
to him, among the illustrious companions of his life.
In forming an opinion upon the character of his
mind, no better rule can be adopted than one,
which this adversary himself has proposed for an-
other object of his censure.

" On the score of talents and learning the expe-
rience of five and thirty years in the United States
has furnished ample proof that a practical know-
ledge of the interests of the country, a common
sense deliberately exercised in forming a sound
judgment, united with perfect integrity and pure
and disinterested patriotism, are of infinitely great-
er value than genius without stability, profound
learning, ripe scholarship, and philosophy."*

Of the value of Mr. Gerry's services, something
has been shown in the facts already narrated. If
the successive duties assigned to him in the gene-
ral court of Massachusetts and the congress of the
revolution do not prove the ability, with which
they were performed, if " it was his good fortune
to be present at the adoption of the declaration of
independence, "t and was not equally the good for-
tune of his country that he was present when the
project was first debated in congress ; if he had

* Pickering's Review, p. 02.
] Ibid. p. 111.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 293

merely " the honour of signing his name to that cele-
brated state paper,"* and had not the higher and
nobler honour of being among the earliest and firm-
est and steadiest of its adventurous friends, if he
was only " a member of the national convention
and member of the house of representatives in the
first congress, and in one or two succeeding con-
gresses,"! and has left in the journals of those
illustrious assemblies no evidence of having been
there, but the record of his name, he may justly
be exposed to those diminutive and sarcastic re-
flections, by which malevolence seeks to disguise
itself under the affectation of contempt ; and can-
not complain that he comes in for a full portion
of censure in a work, whose spirit of vituperation
includes John Adams, Thomas Jefferson and John
Quincy Adams, and loses no opportunity of send-
ing an arrow of reproach at Madison and Mon-
roe.

The estimate, in which Mr. Gerry was held by
his associates of the revolution, and his companions
in later political life, may be found in the intimacy
of their friendship. The intercourse maintained
by public men no where exhibits more implicit
confidence or warmer expressions of esteem than
the confidential letters, which the great and the
brave were daily addressing to him. The natural
consequence of this connexion was the public

* Pickering's Review, p. 111.
t Ibid.

£94 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

stations, which he was called upon to fill. Popu-
lar sentiment was in unison with the opinions of
the gifted and the faithful. The accident, to
which some people attribute the talents that con-
ducted the revolution, is by a more devout temper
of mind ascribed to the special providence of
God.*

* The writer of the review could not himself helieve that Mr.
Gerry was not one of the master builders in the temple of his
country's freedom.

In 1774, Mr. Pickering compiled some insignificant formulary
of manual exercise, which he would not venture to introduce
without obtaining Mr. Gerry's approbation, although he was not
in the military department. " I have been so extremely hurried
with other business, that my plan of exercise remains incom-
plete. However, by writing in the evening and rising in the
morning by candle light, I have made shift to finish the manual
exercise, except only the planting, grounding and presenting,
(that is, resting) the firelock. The whole plan you have en-
closed, to execute which, I shall proceed with all expedition." —
Pickering's MS. letter, November 23, 1774.

In November 1777, the colonel, apprehensive that some delay
in his official returns would bring upon him the displeasure of
congress, addresses Mr. Gerry as a friend by whose influence its
irritation might be safely conducted from him. "I have given
you this detail because I know not whether congress may not
have judged me negligent; but gentlemen of the family who
have known my real situation, I trust deem me very excus-
able."— MS. letter to Mr. Gerry, JYov. 2, 1777.

In 1784, this gentleman, upon whom so many offices were
conferred, and " all of them unasked for in any form whatever,"
(Review, p. 67) having some little place under government to
solicit, thus writes Mr. Gerry on March 9. "In my last I begged
you to deliver the letter therein enclosed, to general Mifflin, it
respected the office in question. He has ever shown me marks
of friendship, and I trusted to the continuance of them. The
nomination you hint at, coming from the quarter it did, would

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 295

not for that consideration, press on him with any additional
weight. You and the president are on such terms of intimacy,
I suppose he will have shown you my letter. If not, I wish you
may see it and sound him on the subject, if you judge it expe-
dient." In J785, the same gentleman and his partner began a
letter of business in the following strain. " With extreme plea-
sure we'learn your arrival once more at York to take your seat
where your services always have and always will be, valuable to
your country."

While writing the defamatory insinuations in the review,
general Marshall's private journal was lying open before him,
which that eminent citizen commences, by speaking of Mr.
Gerry's not having then arrived in Paris, and by expressing the
highest expectation of the advantage to be derived from the
ability, experience and character of the colleague, with whom
he was to be associated.

296 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER IX.

Returns to Massachusetts Proposed for Governour of the Com-
monwealth Private life Pecuniary and domestic misfortune.

Character Member of the electoral college of Massachusetts.

Presides at a meeting in relation to the Chesapeake.

Mr. Gerry returned to the United States at a
period of increased exasperation and violence.*

* The state of things at this period was so offensive and op-
pressive, that the patience of the party which submitted to them
is a subject of wonder. The temples of devotion and justice
became altars of desecration. In Massachusetts the chief
justice of the supreme judicial court, addressed the grand jury
in terms which are thus characterized by one of the leading
journals of the day.

" The learned judge, in a forcible manner, proved the exist-
ence of a French faction in the bosom of our country, and ex-
posed the French system-mongers from the quintumvirate of
Paris, to the vice-president and minority in congress, as apostles
of atheism and anarchy, bloodshed and plunder." — Centinel,
Nov. 24, 1798. A meeting of free citizens preparatory to the
election of national representatives is thus described. " A con-
vention of Parisian cut throats assembled in solemn divan
for the purpose of selecting some devotee of republicanized
France as a candidate for the democratic suffrages in this dis-
trict, for federal representative at the approaching election." —
Ibid. October 17, 1798.

The system of denunciation was placed in full contrast with
the system of exaggerated praise. The birth days of the first
public characters were celebrated quite as extensively and ex-
pensively, as the birth day of the nation, and toasts of extrava-
gant adulation reciprocated. At one of these festivals in Massa-
chusetts, where was present the dignified officers of the state,

the following singular sentiment was proclaimed.

The

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 297

He came back under a suspicion that he was in-
clined to pacification ; that he thought this object
attainable under proper direction ; that letters ad-
dressed to him by the department of state and the
expected tenor of its future movements would
place him in hostility to the administration, and
that he was to assume the rank of a leader in the
northern section of the United States of that po-
litical party, which it suited the views of the
dominant power to crush and annihilate. On the
other side the most dissatisfied members of the
opposition were aware of his confidence in the
executive chief, and the difficulty there would be
in his pursuing all those measures of aggression,
which a partizan directs, not because they are all
right, but because they are expedient movements
in the tactics of faction. A cautious demeanour
was observed with regard to him by both parties,
each fearful of committing itself by attentions,

The Honourable Francis Dana, chief justice, and the learned
associate judges of our supreme judicial court. While the po-
litical opinions delivered from the bench, are dictated by intel-
ligence, integrity and patriotism, may they be as highly respect-
ed as have ever been its judicial decisions.

Political opinions from the bench of justice, and party politics
too!

The plan of personal exaltation was carried so far, that on
one of these birth days " a parade of artillery did themselves
and the day, the honour to attend at the renaming of the for-
tress of the United States, formerly called Fort Williams, which
now bears that of Fort Pickering."

vol. ii. 38

298 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

which it might not be easy to retract.* The first
public announcement of his course, was by his de-
clining a proposition made on the part of his per-
sonal friends to place him again in the house of
representatives of the United States. It was
contained in the following card.

Mr. Gerry being informed from various quarters
of the wishes of a number of his fellow citizens of
this district, that he would stand as a candidate for
a representative in congress at the approaching
election, has a grateful sense of the honour they
are disposed to confer on him, and regrets the in-
dispensable necessity he is under of declining it.
He nevertheless assures them of the continuance
of his exertions in private life to support the feder-
al government, as the only effectual measure of
union, on which under providence rest the liberty,
independence and welfare of ourselves and pos-
terity.

His recent colleagues took other ground. Mr.
Pinckney in answer to an address made to him at
Trenton declared, " For my own part I believe
the French directory are not sincere in the pacific
declarations made bv the minister of foreign af-
fairs to Mr. Gerry. If we would secure the inde-

* A few days after Mr. Gerry's arrival, a gentleman of influ-
ence in the federal party waited upon him and said, that as soon
as he had announced his opinion of the necessity of war with
France, he would be complimented with a public dinner, of
which this individual was authorized to inform him. The com-
pliment was of course declined.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 299

pendence of America free from the intrigues and
ambition of France, I am convinced we must fight
for its preservation." And again to another com-
plimentary speech, " They [the French] are a
people artful and insidious in policy, bold and
powerful in arms j but having endeavoured to
study their character with attention, I am convinc-
ed their intrigues are more to be dreaded than
their force."

Something of a more discreet course, but suffi-
ciently distinct to settle its identity, was main-
tained by his other late colleague.

In Mr. Gerry's view of affairs war might be
averted. He would not proclaim an opinion that
the French rulers were insincere because he did
not entertain it ; he was as little disposed to urge
those measures of resistance by arms, which the
majority were preparing, because he did not be-
lieve such policy best adapted to the objects it
professed, but he was more unwilling to create
dissension and controversy at home, or retard the
movements of the government in its constitutional
power.

If war was to be declared, it was his opinion
that the duty of a good citizen was to make it
successful. If the government in its wisdom saw
fit to appeal to this last arbitrator of nations, it
was his doctrine that no measure could be justified,
that might weaken its chances of success. It was
not as he believed then proper to quarrel about

300 LIFE OF ELBRIDG'E GERRY.

the manner of navigation, which had brought the
ship among the rocks or exposed her to the storm,
but to eneag;e with one heart and one common
exertion to carry her with safety through the bat-
tle and the breeze.

These sentiments, which patriotism cannot dis-
approve, were too sensible and too moderate to
meet the excited feelings of the community. They
left him for the moment without the honours,
which party and faction bestow on their leaders,
but they were remembered to his credit when pas-
sions, which then confounded the reason of the
community, had become tranquillized and still.

The progress of affairs and the happy termi-
nation of the difficulties with France justify the
correctness of those views, which Mr. Gerry had
entertained of the interests of his country. In the
midst of all the pride, pomp and circumstance of
war, of brilliant preparation on land and triumph
on the ocean, the executive chief saw fit to put
his own hand to the helm, and suddenly to change
the direction of his ship.

Against the advice of all his ministers, Mr. Ad-
ams on 18th February 1799, instituted pa new
mission to France.

On the 12th May 1800, Mr. Pickering was dis-
missed from the office of secretary of state. On
the 14th the provisional army was disbanded. Mr.
Dexter superseded Mr. M'Henry as secretary of
war.

The apparently sudden decision of Mr. Adams'

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 301

mind was the result of care, examination, reflec-
tion and judgment. He had been at Quincy* a
chief part of the summer and autumn of '98.
His personal interviews there and at Cambridge
had been most frequent, free and confidential with
Mr. Gerry, who early succeeded in dispelling
those prejudices at his own conduct, with which
it was first surrounded, and afterwards in impress-
ing on Mr. Adams the views of American policy
in relation to France, which his personal observa-
tion had matured. Mr. Adams departed for Phila-
delphia persuaded of the correctness of those prin-
ciples, which Mr. Gerry had enforced, but alarmed
and unhappy at the strength and combination,
which in and around his cabinet pressed on his
attention others of a different character. The
language of his speech on the opening of con-
gress, incites to military preparation, not so much
for actual warfare, as a weapon of diplomacy. It
is easy to perceive in it the change his mind had
undergone. His expurgation of the secretary's
animadversions on Mr. Gerry is of similar tenden-
cy. The repeal of the French arrette of 20th
October '98, communicated to congress on 15th
February '99, was in further aid of his new views.
Talleyrand's letter to Pichon of 28th Septem-
ber 1798, which was indeed but a repetition of
Talleyrand's constant language to Mr. Gerry,
completed his conviction, and the new mission

* The president's residence in Massachusetts, seven miles from
Boston.

302 LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY.

was instituted, which in his own language saved
the peace of the nation. The success of this mis-
sion, honourable as it was to the political charac-
ter of the president, was yet in strong confirma-
tion of the sentiments and policy of his opponents.
It made their prophecy fact, and largely contribut-
ed to that change in public affairs, which in a few
months placed the power of the government in
their hands. The republican party rallied under
the excitement of these new events.

In Massachusetts they offered their support to
Mr. Gerry for the office of governour, in opposi-
tion to Caleb Strong, who was proposed by the
federalists. Two years before, the republican
party had but a single member in the senate of
the state. On counting the votes it was now found
that " the whole number was 39059, of which
19530 made a choice; that Mr. Strong had 19630
and was chosen."*

Mr. Jefferson was inaugurated president of the
United States on 4th March 1801, and a new ef-
fort was made by the republican party to assimi-
late the political character of the state to that of
the nation. Mr. Gerry very reluctantly consented
again to permit his name to appear as a candidate
for the chair, and a canvass of great animation and
much virulence, terminated in the reelection of
the former governour.f From these several ex-

* Report of Com. of Mass. legis.

f Mr. G. received 20169 out of 45816 votes.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 303

ertions Mr. Gerry could derive no other satisfac-
tion than in finding he still possessed the confi-
dence of that great political party with whom he
had always been associated, and whose physical
weakness was the cause, and not any deficiency
of energy or zeal, that he was not placed at the
head of the state.

Retiring now from the turmoils of political
affairs, Mr. Gerry was once again at liberty to
attend to his favourite pursuits, to cultivate his
farm, to superintend the education of his children
and to enjoy the pleasures of domestic life. Un-
fortunately however, the peace, that would have
followed this cessation of public labours, was in-
terrupted by a circumstance that served to embar-
rass the whole future of his life. A friend, for
whom he had become surety to a large amount,
failed and left him with a weight of pecuniary
obligations, from which he was never able after-
wards to extricate himself.

The cares and anxiety, to which this derange-
ment of his finances subjected him, checked his
political correspondence and his connexion with
the more animating scenes of society, but had no
effect on his domestic intercourse, or the happi-
ness, which was enjoyed in his family circle.
Whatever were his disappointments abroad, and
great as must have been his anxiety for the future
prospects of a numerous and dependent establish-
ment, the same serenity of disposition, the same

304 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

amiable and endearing manners, the same anima-
ting and cheerful temper, which made him so
much the object of affectionate interest, continued
to disguise the agitation of his heart. The circle
of his hospitality was diminished, the expensive
assistance, which he had brought to his own efforts
in education was curtailed, and its cares divided
with his accomplished companion ; a necessary
but still elegant frugality presided over his house-
hold ; his amusements and occupation, which had
before extended over a wider circle, now settled
within the family limits, which seemed to give
them new strength by compression.

But another and severer misfortune awaited
him. She in whose society his peculiarly affec-
tionate feelings found their sweetest consolation,
and who seemed, by the extraordinary attachment
which bound him to her, not only a substitute for
all other pleasures, but in herself almost the sole
satisfaction of life, was visited by a dangerous and
long continued malady, which engrossed all his
solicitude and care.

The intervals of the distressing disease, to which
she was a victim, served but feebly to recruit his
own strength, which watching and anxiety under-
mined, and hardly allowed him any other relaxa-
tion or employment than his farm or his family
demanded.

Notwithstanding these severe trials the occa-
sional visitor at his friendly mansion was delighted

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 305

with the assumed cheerfulness of his manners, the
ease and freedom of his conversation, abounding
with anecdote and the recital of by-gone events,
piquant and full of wit, which under the control
of good feelings never inflicted a voluntary wound.

It was at this period of comparative seclusion,
that the author, then an undergraduate at Harvard
University, first became acquainted with the indi-
vidual of whom he is writing, and acquired those
sentiments of respect and esteem, which matured
in the course of a more intimate connexion may
perhaps be thought to guide a too favourable pen-
cil in giving this account of his public services and
his private character. But the impressions, which
he then received, were not made on him alone. No
one was a greater favourite with the young than
Mr. Gerry. He accommodated his manners to
their feelings, habits and taste. With a dignity
of deportment and an elevation of character that
commanded their respect, there was a freedom of
manners and an indulgent disposition, which won
their affections and secured their confidence.

He has been called reserved and austere, but
only by those to whom he was not personally
known. The little arts, by which popularity is
often secured, were indeed wholly unknown to
him. He rested his claims to public favour on the
merit that deserved it, without descending to
court the applause of the people, by flattering
their vices or ministering to their vanity. He

vol. ii. 39

306 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

was rarely if ever at their primary meetings, con-
sidering as below his rank in political estimation
the management of the materials of a party ; and
they who found themselves courted by other can-
didates for their favour, not unwillingly attributed
his reserve to pride or disdain.

But nothing could be more inappropriately said
of him than that he was austere. His fault was
of an opposite kind. A fond and affectionate hus-
band, a kind and indulgent parent, a friendly
neighbour, most liberal in hospitality, and generous
in his contributions to alleviate distress, he was
entitled to high rank in the calendar of the hu-
mane and beneficent. His exertions to do good
within the circle of his personal influence were
limited only by his means. It was the habit of
his life to consider nothing a sacrifice, which add-
ed to the comfort of his friends, and wholly to
forget all self-interested motives in his endeavours
to ameliorate the condition of the humbler mem-
bers of society.

Two circumstances have contributed to the
erroneous estimate, which in this respect has been
made of his character. The furrows of care were
early traced on his countenance. This appear-
ance, with a singular habit of contracting and ex-
panding very rapidly the muscles of the eye, gave
to his features the appearance of sternness, which
had really no connexion with his mind.

Another cause for this opinion was the severity

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 307

of his administration of the state government.
Numerous removals from office produced much
individual suffering, which was naturally enough
charged to the governour. It is not proper to an-
ticipate occurrences, which remain to be related,
further than to say, that much of that course was
in no degree attributable to him, and that his re-
luctant share in it caused him many of the most
painful moments of his life. With all the clamour
at the time, the objects of his party were not
thoroughly accomplished, because the chief ma-
gistrate shrunk from inflicting personal distress ;
and many individuals were left in the enjoyment
of official station, whom the stern decrees of po-
litical proscription had selected for sacrifice.

It was with more truth he was accused of ob-
stinacy. Forming his opinions with deliberation,
he yielded them with reluctance. Feeling the
conviction produced by thorough investigation it
was not easy to change his results. The tenacity
with which he clung to such sentiments as his
judgment approved, may at times have been too
determined, and probably obstinate.

This tendency was increased by another, which
was the weakest trait of his mind. He was ha-
bitually suspicious. Accustomed in the early pe-
riod of his life to watch with a jealous eye, the
actions and opinions of those who administered
the government, to anticipate evil even for osten-
sible good, and to calculate on coming clanger be-

a

08 LIFE OF ELBKIDGE GERRY.

fore even its shadow could be seen, he acquired
an indisposition to give his confidence easily,
readily or freely. This habit increased as he
advanced in life, for " confidence is a plant of
slow growth in an aged bosom." There was lit-
tle of the art of acquiring popularity in entertain-
ing such a state of mind ; less in letting it be
seen. They who were associated with him were
often oppressed with a conviction that he was
doubtful of their sincerity, and this feeling on their
part generated a state of things which otherwise
would not have existed. It is something anoma-
lous in the history of character, that an individual
punctiliously upright in his own conduct, should
unwillingly admit the sincerity of others.

Mr. Gerry was an exemplary citizen in all the
duties of private life. Adhering to the doctrines
of the Episcopal church, he was serious without
bigotry, and liberal enough to admit that although
that sect was most satisfactory to himself, it was
not entitled to arrogate superiority over others, into
which the christian world was divided.

In his temper, he was naturally ardent and im-
petuous, but in the course of a most intimate ac-
quaintance, and under excitements calculated to
give full play to the passions, the writer never
saw them break their boundary, or get the mas-
tery of his mind.

Mr. Gerry was of middling stature and spare
frame. A large broad head, high and prominent

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 309

forehead, and a quick piercing and expressive eye,
completed the outline of a striking physiognomy.
Extremely temperate in all the indulgences of
pleasure, he preserved a constitution, not originally
robust, in a good degree of strength, so that to his
latest day he never used a cane, and was able to
read the smallest print without the aid of glasses.

The refined pleasures of intellectual life, the
conversation of educated females, and the charms
of polished society, were his most admired re-
laxation from the laborious and patient industry,
which he was accustomed to devote to political
duties ; and in these circles of intelligence and
taste, his own contribution to the general amuse-
ment, was readily bestowed and most highly ap-
preciated. Belonging to that school of manners,
which commenced under the royal government,
and perfected its pupils in the camp and cabinet
of the revolution, regulating the deportment with
courtesy towards others, and a personal dignity
that never lost its self-respect, lofty without ar-
rogance, affable without familiarity, he was at
all time and under all circumstances, entitled to
the reputation of a perfect gentleman.

The retirement he enjoyed during the period
under review, was varied by two incidents of a
political character. In 1804, he was a member
of the electoral college of Massachusetts, by the
unexpected success of the republican party, and
joined in the unanimous vote given by the electors

310 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

of the state to Thomas Jefferson for president, and
George Clinton for vice-president, of the United
States. The venerable James Warren of Ply-
mouth, long the correspondent and always the
friend of Mr. Gerry, was president of this college,
and in this act completed the public services of
his valuable life.

The attack made in 1808 by the British ship
Leopard on the American frigate Chesapeake,
presented another occasion for his influence with
his fellow citizens.

In order to give a full expression to the public
feeling and to strengthen the administration in
such measures of resistance as the exigency might
demand, it was determined to hold a body meeting
in Boston, as was the usage in the earlier periods
of the colonial controversy.* The state-house
was selected for this purpose, but the concourse
of people soon filled the hall and the multitude
collected on an open area at the north.

Upon the uppermost of the steps which led
from the floor of the building, and exactly on the
spot where now stands Chantry's magnificent sta-
tue of Washington, a table was placed for the
moderator.

A gentleman announced that Elbridge Gerry
was in town, and moved that " this patriot dis-
tinguished in the first movements of resistance to
a haughty adversary" be invited to preside over

* Hutchinson, 3d vol. p. 430.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. Sll

the present deliberations. The motion was car-
ried by acclamation, and a committee appointed
to conduct him to the chair.

Mr. Gerry then hardly recovered from a disease
from which even fatal consequences had been ap-
prehended, was at the house of a friend a short
distance from the assembly, without having had
any notice of the meeting, or the most dis-
tant idea of being called to preside. He readily
accepted the invitation, and walked with the com-
mittee by the usual avenue to the gothic hall of
the state-house. Nothing indicative of a conven-
tion was visible. Scarcely a solitary passenger
crossed his path. As ignorant of the location as-
signed him, as the assembly was of his approach,
he was conducted across the hall, when the folding
doors were thrown open, and he found himself not
only in the presence of several thousands of his
fellow citizens, but in the place appointed for
their moderator, and actually presiding in their
councils.

Surprise could not be more complete either to
him or them. Bowing in acknowledgment for
the plaudits, which seemed to shake the very
skies, and allowed him a moment to recover his
self-possession, he addressed the assembly in the
following animated sentence.

I had not anticipated that at my time of life,
there could have been a scene like the present,
but I yield to the call that is made on me, as I

312 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

hold it to be the duty of every citizen, though he
may have but one day to live, to devote that day
to the good of his country.

This sentiment, indicative of the governing
principle of his life, is the epitaph recorded on
his monument, and was then reechoed by an ap-
proving multitude, who felt that the virtue of the
revolution was resuscitated at a crisis, which call-
ed for a similar exercise of its energy and zeal.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 313

CHAPTER X.

Elected govemour of Massachusetts Conciliatory temper of the

administration Degree of doctor of laivs conferred on him by

Harvard College Inauguration of president Kirkland Re-
elected govemour of Massachusetts Policy of the administra-
tion changed Speech to the legislature Measures of the

republican party Their character considered Doctrine of

libel Correspondence ivith judge Parker Message to the

legislature on the same subject Message on the resources of the

state Complies ivith the requisition of the government of the

United States for a detachment of militia Is superseded as

govemour of Massachusetts.

From this long period of repose, Mr. Gerry was
unexpectedly awakened by a call on him again to
become a candidate for the office of govemour of
the commonwealth of Massachusetts.

A nomination had usually been made during the
sitting of the legislature, and the first suggestion
of an intention of again presenting his name to the
public, was communicated to him by a committee
of gentlemen, who reported that he had been,
with great unanimity, selected by the republican
party. At the earnest solicitation of his political
friends, but in his own language, " at the sacrifice
of domestic and family interests, and with great
personal inconvenience," he assented to the request.

A canvass now commenced, which exceeded in
its violence whatever had before occurred of a

vol. ii. 40

314 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

similar character. If in its progress the subject
of this memoir was assailed with every vitupera-
tive epithet, and presented to the public in the
most odious points of view, it does not diminish
the pain of the recollection, that his rival, the
then incumbent of the chair, was treated with
equal asperity.

Governour Gore had been elected the chief ex-
ecutive magistrate of the state, by the strength of
the federal party, and held his claim to their con-
fidence and respect by a cordial cooperation in all
the essential measures of their policy. So far he
was the legitimate object of attack by those, who
differed from him in the principles of government,
and in their views of the political system ; but
there was an honesty of heart, a courtesy of man-
ners, and a generosity of feeling in this distin-
guished civilian, which ought to have protected
him from the arrows of malevolence and slander.

The misty medium of party prejudice magnifies
the errors of public men, while it as often gives
them a factitious importance, which disappears
with the returning light of intelligence and reason.
Mr. Gore lived through the period of storm and
turbulence, and it has been said of him with equal
truth and elegance, that " his was a pure spirit,
high and looking upward. His taste was refined,
his sensibility acute, his feelings manly, generous,
independent. He had the most elevated ideas of

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 315

public and private duty, and his conduct was always
in perfect conformity with his principles. In times
of excitement he was calm and just ; in times of
corruption pure."

The election terminated in favour of Mr. Gerry,
who entered on the duties of his office on the
second day of June 1810.

It has been the misfortune of the United States
that dissensions among their citizens, on the cor-
rect course of their own national policy, had such
relation to their connexion with foreign powers,
as to involve the separate parties in the imputa-
tion of attachments or antipathies wholly indepen-
dent of any motive of patriotism. It was emi-
nently so at this period. The conduct of the bel-
ligerents sacrificed to their own advantage the
rights and interests of the United States when-
ever they presented obstacles to the great objects
of their controversy, while the folly of a war with
both at the same time, and the inconveniences and
evils resulting from the necessary movements of
diplomacy to prevent it, constantly gave fuel to
the flames of that party zeal, which is the insepa-
rable concomitant of liberty. From the period of
Mr. Jefferson's election to the presidency, in March
1801, the government of the United States, in all
its departments had been decidedly in the hands
of the democratic party, and their strength had
so rapidly and steadily increased, that the check,
which opposition exerts on public measures, had

316 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ceased to enforce its salutary restraint. The nearly
unanimous reelection of Mr. Jefferson in 1U05,
and the triumphant majority, which in 1809 placed
Mr. Madison in the executive chair, had broken
down the federal party, which though still organ-
ized in the national legislature, and represented
by individuals of talent and character, was rather
calculated by its situation to irritate the dominant
party than control it. In Massachusetts however,
the case was directly the reverse. For nearly the
whole period, in which the people had divided
themselves into political parties, the government
had been in federal hands. The restraints upon
commerce, which the national councils had deem-
ed wise to impose, operated severely on a people
essentially commercial in their feelings, habits
and interest, and combined with other measures,
in which it was generally believed their advantage
was but little consulted, to array against the na-
tional government a very decided majority of the
citizens. But the friends of the national adminis-
tration had not been inactive. Twice by the
election of governour Sullivan, they had succeeded
in acquiring power, which was wrested from them
almost as soon as possessed. The time now
presented a favourable opportunity for another
effort, and the whole democratic party in the state
united in support of Mr. Gerry. They were
opposed by the entire force of the federalists, who
clung to the government of this state as the chief

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 317

citadel of their strength ; and overthrown in the
general and other local governments of the con-
federacy found it necessary to preserve here the
last remnants of their power, until times more
favourable to their views, should give them a
wider field of operation. Their whole strength
was accordingly exerted to prevent Mr. Gerry's
election, and each party entered into the conflict
with hearts of controversy. The parties thus en-
gaged were too nearly matched, both in address
and numbers, to have rendered it certain on which
side the balance would incline, but a third party
was found to take the field, and by their over-
powering weight to settle the conflict.

This party consisted of the few but venerable
survivors of the revolution, whose personal ac-
quaintance had impressed on their minds the con-
stant and important services of Mr. Gerry in the
early days of danger and anxiety, together with a
class of educated and ardent youth, who not having
before mixed in political conflicts, brought with them
those feelings and principles in favour of a patriot
of the revolution, which the history of its times
were well calculated to inspire. Mr. Gerry seem-
ed to have been awakened from his long inactivity,
and to come before the electoral population like
the last of the Romans, the only one in the splen-
did assembly of revolutionary worthies whom the
generation now enjoying the fruits of their labour,
would, in the progress of events, be permitted to
honour.

318 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

His rival Mr. Gore, had been too young to en-
gage in the great struggle for independence. His
friends remembered indeed, that when just leav-
ing college, he had marched with a volunteer
corps to the defence of Rhode Island ; but this
solitary instance of duty was almost ludicrous in
comparison with the long and splendid and emi-
nent services of the associate of the patriots in
the congress of independence. Attachment to
the principles and gratitude to the agents of the
revolution triumphed over the violence of politi-
cal feeling, and the democratic party, assisted by
the fortunate selection of a candidate, were victo-
rious at the polls.

It would have been well for them to have re-
membered in the exultation of success, the means
by which it was achieved, and to have moderated
their triumph by a regard to the insecure founda-
tion on which it stood.

But the leaders of the party believed that the
state was revolutionized, and that their triumph
over their antagonists was the final overthrow of
the federal power in the last portion of its terri-
tory. They were the more satisfied of this, be-
cause they had exactly divided the senate, and
had obtained in the house of representatives a
majority, which gave them the control of the
elections in joint ballot of the two houses.

The speech of the governour to the legislature,
the first measure of his administration was tern-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 319

perate and conciliatory. It inculcated the neces-
sity of union. In a review of the course pursued
by foreign powers, he justified the measures of
the national government, and exhorted the com-
munity to an union of effort in its support. His
references to the revolution for illustration of the
several measures connected with state policy was
calculated to preserve the title, by which he ac-
quired his situation, and to soften the asperity of
opposition. In enumerating the advantages which
the country possessed, he said " When we reflect
that the United States are in possession of nu-
merous blessings, political, civil and religious,
many of which are not enjoyed by any other na-
tion, that we are remote from those scenes of
war and carnage, by which Europe is vested in
sable, that we enjoy the uncontrolled right on prin-
ciples of true liberty, to form, alter and carry into
effect, our federal ands tate constitutions, that
founded on them and on law, there exists a spirit
of toleration, securing to every one the undisturb-
ed rights of conscience and the free exercise of
religion, that the people at fixed periods have the
choice of their rulers, and can remove those who
do wrong, that the means of education in all its
branches are liberal, general and successful, that
the national strength, resources and powers, by
proper arrangements may render these states in-
vincible, that by our husbandry, commerce, manu-
factures, and mechanic arts, the wealth of this

320 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

country almost surpasses credibility, let us not be
prompted by imprudent zealots of any description
to hazard the irretrievable loss of all or of any of
these inestimable blessings, but let us secure them
forever, with the aid of divine providence, by ral-
lying around the standard of our national govern-
ment, and by encouraging and establishing a mar-
tial spirit on the solid foundation of internal peace,
order and concord.

The answers of the two houses were respect-
ful and affectionate, even beyond the common
courtesy of the official style. The house of repre-
sentatives say " to the course of your excellency's
administration we look with pleasing anticipation.
We consider the past conduct of public characters
as the safest pledge of their future course. And
with impressions of this nature we feel assured
that under your guidance a spirit of harmony will
pervade our councils, that the national govern-
ment and sister states will receive the respect
which is their due, and that the great interests
of the commonwealth under the fostering care of
the government will receive every assistance they
may need, and every encouragement in our power
to bestow."

The senate commenced their answer in the fol-
lowing language :

On the first meeting of the several branches of
the government, the senate respectfully recognize
in the person of the chief magistrate of Massa-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 321

chusetts, the man who so eminently contributed
by his revolutionary services to establish the inde-
pendence, and secure the peace and prosperity of
our country. The zeal and fidelity with which
these services were rendered, afford to us a pledge
that in discharging the duties of the high and hon-
ourable trust committed to you by a majority of
the people, your excellency will be uninfluenced
by the sinister suggestions of party spirit, but will
be guided by a sincere and single regard to the
great interests of the whole commonwealth.

This confidence is strengthened by the reflec-
tion, that during the conflict which for many years
has agitated almost every part of our community,
your excellency has been aloof from the scene of
contention, and we trust therefore has advanced
to the chair of government, unbiassed by those
passions and prejudices, which are in some degree
common to all who have been actively engaged in
the warfare of public opinion.

The suggestions here made were most perfect-
ly true. With the directors of political parties the
long retirement of Mr. Gerry had given him no
opportunity to be intimate. The changes, which
time had made in the members of the different
departments of the government had left him al-
most without personal acquaintance with them,
and the desire, which his party had to place his
name as a candidate at their head, had itself, if
there had been no other reason, rendered his ad-

VOL. II. 41

322 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

vance to the chief magistracy wholly independent
of all conditions, stipulations and expectancies.
In his own political sentiments, matured as they
were by time and experience, he was immovably
confirmed ; but in regard to individuals or parties,
other than as they came recommended by charac-
ter and conduct, he was impartial, unfettered
and independent.

But after all, what is the worth of a victory if
the enemy are allowed to possess the spoils.
Of what consequence is it who are masters of the
field so long as the vanquished retain their pos-
sessions ? The battle between the great political
parties had been fought at the ballot boxes again
and again, and constant defeat had embittered and
exasperated the disappointed competitors. They
beheld for a long series of years the honours and
emoluments of office, the pride of place and dig-
nity of station, held by their political adversaries
until the reproach of being a democrat was con-
sidered as impassable a barrier to public station, as
the want of moral character or intellectual ability.
The moment of their triumph was therefore a fit
time for retaliation, and the victory they at last
had won was to be consummated by its honours and
rewards. This determination, which was in some
respect the language of excited feeling and the
expression of natural passion, derived no little
support from the principles of justice.

The limited legislation of the states gives rise

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY. 323

to few questions of high character. The general
policy of all parties is in most respects the same
in time of peace. Changes in administration
are marked rather by changing individuals who
manage affairs, than by any great variation in the
affairs that are managed. The party who now
came into power, found all the posts of honour
and profit in possession of their enemies, and this
possession so confirmed by time and arrangement,
as to be apparently the result of premeditated
purpose.

The judicial department, the most stable and
the most efficient in its operation, was from the
chief justiceship to the crier of the court, wholly
in federal hands. As a consequence of this, the
bar, with hardly sufficient exception to be noticed,
added all the force of professional character to the
federal cause. The literature of the state, so far
as it had official form, was under the same con-
trol. Colleges and learned societies seemed to
have settled a sort of common law, that the hon-
ours of science would be as inappropriately be-
stowed upon democracy as the chef d'ouvres of
taste upon the aborigines of the country. In its
connexion with the national government, the state
had always been represented by the same political
class, their members in the United States senate
having been invariably selected from the federal
party. It had been the policy of the federalists to
inspire the opinion, and it was their belief probably,

324 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

for self-love is exceedingly credulous of praise, that
in their ranks were contained all the talents and all
the learning, and all the moral character of the
country, and as the Romans looked upon the rest
of mankind as barbarians, so they were pleased
to consider their fellow citizens on the democratic
side, as little better than the Goths and Vandals,
into whose power had unfortunately fallen the
heritage of the state.

The long period of submission to this contemp-
tuous demeanour, which the democrats had been
forced to endure, had not diminished those indig-
nant feelings, which are excited in the minds of
honourable men by injustice and insult, and it
prepared them to take advantage of their success,
without much regard to those considerations of
prudence, which were calculated to preserve it.

The legislature set the example. Every ap-
pointment in their gift was bestowed on the indi-
viduals of their party, and strong intimations were
given that the governour would be expected to fol-
low the same path.

The equality of votes in the senate would have
prevented the passing, and it consequently re-
strained the proposing of such laws as would change
adversely to the federal interests any of the ex-
isting establishments, and the legislature after a
short session adjourned to meet again in January.

The character of the governour, which was
brought more distinctly into view, rose very much

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 325

in the estimation of the public. There was an ad-
herence to principle, which secured the attach-
ment of his political friends, and an urbanity and
liberality of manners, which disarmed his oppo-
nents.

The charge of pride and reserve, which had
been made against him, was seen to be altogether
fallacious. Accessible and familiar, the citizens
found him ready to listen to their suggestions, and
his house, always the abode of hospitality, was
filled either by strangers whom his liberality at-
tracted, or by constituents who felt gratified in
having opportunity to make known their indi-
vidual opinions to the governour of the common-
wealth.

At the commencement in August, Harvard Uni-
versity conferred upon him the degree of doctor of
laws, the honor of which, if in ordinary cases di-
minished by the prodigality of its bestowment on
a certain political class, lost none of its original
value, whatever that might be, when the leaders
of a sect saw fit to make an unusual exception to
the partiality of their favours.

In the November succeeding, the governour, as
the head of the board of overseers, assisted at the
splendid induction of the reverend John Thornton
Kirkland, to be president of the college, and de-
livered an address in the latin language, in con-
formity to established usage on such occasions.
The reply of the president was couched in flat-

326 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

tering terms of respect ; and the occasion, the
place, and the speaker, would prevent them from
being considered merely complimentary and insin-
cere.*

The winter session of the legislature was mark-
ed by the same conciliatory spirit on the part of
the governour, while the want of a majority in the
senate still controlled the fiery temper of his party.
In the nominations to office, the governour respect-
ed the claims of his political friends whom he found
to have been heretofore almost entirely excluded,
but of the incumbents holding their place at the
will of the executive, no one was disturbed in the
enjoyment of his situation. Strong effort was
made by influential individuals to change the gov-
ernour's policy in this respect, and there were not
wanting those who expressed their dissatisfaction
at the tolerance he was disposed to observe. But
their disapprobation was without effect. He had
proposed as the object of his policy to bring about
a conciliation of temper between the people of the
state and the national administration, and it seemed
to him most likely to be effected by softening that
asperity of feeling, which had separated the con-
tending factions, and at times had threatened vio-
lence and almost civil war. The republican party,
he was accustomed to say, by holding the govern-
ment of the state, are restored to their rank as
free citizens. They are no longer degraded or

* Appendix A.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 327

proscribed. It is best for them not to incur re-
proach for the same conduct which has disgraced
their opponents. As they profess a liberality of
opinion, let them practise a liberality of conduct.

Causes for the change of this course were not
long delayed. Notwithstanding the courtesy and
kindness, which in outward forms of official inter-
course were extended towards him, the mortifica-
tion of a defeated party at the elevation of their
opponents, and the determination they had formed,
be his conduct what it would, to displace him from
the executive chair, was constantly observed, and
had its natural operation on those by whom he
was supported.

If the governour had supposed that conciliation
and liberal policy on the part of the executive
would so far repress the angry feelings of the op-
position, that the republican party could keep the
government in their hands, and thus aid the gen-
eral administration by a conformity to the policy
of the United States, he had not sufficiently cal-
culated the depth and strength of that resistance,
which his opponents could exert. The tendency
of the measures of the United States, to bring
on a war with Great Britain, and the consequence
of such war to draw closer an alliance with the
ruler of France, allowing to each party in the
country, all the honesty of intention they could
claim, was in itself sufficient to have prevented
the success of a scheme desirable indeed, but

328 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

under the then existing circumstances perfectly
hopeless. But when it was considered how small
was the difference in the ballots cast by the two
rival parties, that the annual accession by natural
increase was enough to change the majority, and
especially that the intimate connexion between
the policy of the national and the popularity of
the state administration would give hope of suc-
cess to a party not in mass accustomed to defeat,
the expectation of a decrease of the energies of
an election campaign was hardly to be justified.

Every effort was accordingly made by the op-
posing parties to secure success at the election in
April. The same candidates were presented by
each party, and Mr. Gerry was after a hard strug-
gle again elected governour of the commonwealth.
The democratic party had made very strenuous
efforts to gain the ascendency in the senate, and
securing all they had acquired in the former year,
and prevailing also in the county of Bristol, they
had now the complete possession of all the execu-
tive and legislative departments in the state.*

* Extract of a letter from a distinguished citizen of the United
States, dated at St. Petersburg, 30th June 1811.
" The Massachusetts election appears to agitate the Americans
in Europe almost exclusively; of all the other elections going
on at the same time in many parts of the union, I see paragraphs
in the newspapers, but hear not a syllable from any other quar-
ter. But American federalists in this city have received letters
from their friends in London and in Gottenburg, in high exulta-
tion announcing the election of Mr. Gore by a majority of more
than three thousand votes. Other Americans of different politics
contest the validity of this return, and affirm that Mr. Gerry and

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 329

During the canvass preceding the election, the
federal party in the capital, at one of those meet-
Mr. Gray have been reelected, though by a reduced majority
compared with that of the last year. Why this extreme anxiety
for the Massachusetts election ? Is it Mr. Gore for whose eleva-
tion all this enthusiasm is harboured ? I think it by no means
difficult to account for. There is much foreign hope and fear
involved in these Massachusetts elections ; all the rest, even New
York arc despaired of. But the Massachusetts federal politi-
cians have got to talk so openly and with such seeming indiffer-
ence, not to say readiness for a dissolution of the union; they
are so valiant in their threats of resistance to the laws ; they
seem so resolute for a little experiment upon the energy of the
union and its government, that in the prospects of a war with
America, which most of the British statesmen now at the helm
consider as in the line of wise policy, they and all their parti-
zaus calculate boldly and without disguise or concealment upon
the cooperation of the Massachusetts federalists. The Massa-
chusetts election therefore, is a touchstone of national principle,
and upon its issue may depend the question of peace and war
between the United States and England. However hostile a
British ministry may feel against us, they will never venture
upon it until they can depend upon an active cooperation with
them, within the United States. It is from the New England
federalists alone that they can expect it. From the same view
of the subject, though prompted by very opposite feelings, I too
take a deep interest in the Massachusetts elections. I have
known now more than seven years the projects of the Boston
faction against the union. They have ever since that time at
least, been seeking a pretext and an occasion for avowing the
principle. The people however, have never been ready to go
with them ; and when in the embargo time they did for a mo-
ment get a majority with them, they only verified the old proverb
about setting a beggar on horse-back. Mr. Quincy has been at
the pains now of furnishing them with a new pretext, which will
wear no better than its predecessors. Mr. Quincy should not
have quoted me as an authority for a dissolution of the union.
He may be assured it is a doctrine that never will have my sanc-

vol. II. 42

330 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ings peculiar to New England, in which the elec-
tors are accustomed to assemble for political
discussion, adopted resolutions of an inflammatory
character, and supported them by the premeditated
speeches of their most able men, among whom
the president of the senate was principally distin-
guished for his zeal.

The preamble to these celebrated resolutions
affected to draw a parallel between the oppres-
sion of the government of the union and that of
Great Britain before the declaration of indepen-
dence ; and it intimated very plainly that the
course, which the fathers of the revolution pur-
sued, though then termed rebellion, was a just
precedent for existing circumstances. The reso-
lutions themselves proceeded to declare that the
first flagrant violation of our neutral rights was
inflicted by the Berlin decree, in November 1806.
That the late offers or pretended proposals of
France to relax her decrees, were illusory and in-

tion. It is my attachment to the union, which makes me spe-
cially anxious for the result of the Massachusetts elections.
They are a contest of life and death for the union. If that
party are not ultimately put down in Massachusetts, as com-
pletely as they already are in New York and Pennsylvania, and
all the southern and western states, the union is gone. Instead
of a nation coextensive with the North American continent,
destined by God and Nature to be the most populous and most
powerful people, ever combined under one social compact, we
shall have an endless multitude of little insignificant clans and
tribes, at eternal war with one another, for a rock or a fish-pond,
the sport and fable of European masters and oppressors.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 331

suiting. That neither reason, justice, policy, or
law could justify either the president or congress
in changing our relative connexion with the bel-
ligerents ; and they lastly resolved, " that such an
unjust, oppressive, and tyrannical act they con-
sider the statute passed by congress on 2d March
inst. tending to the ruin or impoverishment of
some of the most industrious and meritorious citi-
zens of the United States, and that the only means
short of an appeal to force, (which heaven avert)
is the election of such men to the various offices
in the state government as will oppose by peace-
able but firm measures the execution of laws,
which if persisted in must and will be resisted."

A contemporary journal, in the cause of the
party, describing the scene at Faneuil Hall, where
these resolutions were proposed, and giving a
summary of the speeches, by which they were
enforced, remarks, " The inferences from these
discussions are that the men who now rule are
corrupt and impotent ; that they are humbly sub-
missive and obedient to Fiance ; that they are
inveterately hostile to Great Britain ; that they
entertain a fixed contempt and detestation of com-
merce ; that they would sooner plunge this coun-
try into war with England and alliance with
France, and consequently subject it to French
dominion, than let the federal republicans again
come into power, and expose the weak and wick-
ed measures of the Jefferson policy.*

* Boston Centinel, 3d April 1811.

332 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The declaration of this assembly, which might
fairly be considered as speaking for the whole
party, that a law of congress, if persisted in would
be resisted, and the threat that if opposition by
peaceable measures was unavailing, force — "which
heaven avert" — would be resorted to, must seem
to the calm reflection of more quiet times to ap-
proach too nearly to an act of rebellion. It seem-
ed so to the governour, and he presented this assem-
bly, the resolutions, which they passed, and very
distinctly the individuals who were busy in their
enactment, to the general court, in the address
which he made to both houses at the opening of
the session in the following June. After com-
menting on the preamble and resolutions, and ex-
posing what he considered the erroneous positions
and incorrect reasoning of the assembly, he re-
marked, " If our national rulers are justly charged
as is stated by this assemblage, with having pass-
ed a tyrannical act, and laws that must and will
be resisted, they have rebelled against the sove-
reignty of the people, are subject to punishment,
and have forfeited forever a claim to public confi-
dence ; but if the charge is unfounded, if they
have conducted agreeably to our national charter,
(which is manifestly the general sense of the
nation) have not those who have denounced the
government of the United States as oppressive,
tyrannical and unjust, and who have declared an
intention to resist the execution of their laws, ua-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 333

warrantably adopted measures tending to excite a
spirit of insurrection and rebellion, and to destroy
our internal peace and tranquillity ?"

•n" tp *K* ^f

" To diminish and exterminate if possible a
party spirit, the executive of this commonwealth,
during the last year confirmed in his place or re-
appointed when requisite every state officer under
its control, who had been correct in his conduct
and faithful to his trust, disregarding his politics
and requiring only his support of the federal and
state constitutions, governments and laws, with a
due regard to the rights of officers and individuals
subject to his official discretion. But it cannot be
expected of any executive so far to disregard the
sacred obligations of duty and honour, as to pre-
serve in official situations such individuals as
would abuse the influence of their public charac-
ters by sanctioning resistance to law, or by such
other conduct as would beguile peaceable and
happy citizens into a state of civil warfare."

This bold and fearless denunciation of the lead-
ers of the federal party ; the imputation which it
threw upon their motives ; the criminality, which
it charged upon their conduct ; and the interdict,
which it placed upon their claims to public office,
broke all connexion between the governour and
that great class of citizens, who were in the politi-
cal minority of the state.

A statesman who had more considered the

334 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

policy of public measures than their propriety, or
regarded either his personal convenience or popu-
larity, would have hesitated before throwing the
gauntlet in defiance, among such numerous and
powerful foes. An individual more conversant
than the governour had been with the measures of
the contending parties, and who had seen how
harmless was the effervescence of that spirit, which
subsided as suddenly as it rose, or how boldly and
with how little meaning men were accustomed
to use big words and formidable expressions : one
more intimate than he had been with the ma-
chinery of elections, where it was necessary to
excite a zeal, which would bring voters to the
polls, might have been sensible that much less was
meant than met the ear, or that at any rate error
might be safely tolerated where truth was free to
combat it, and that the whole of such magnificent
tirade meant no more than to keep the party to-
gether, by persuading the followers of the party
that there was something worth at least the ex-
ertion of an hour at the ballot box.

Intimations of this kind were made to the gov-
ernour by some friends, to whom his speech was
read before it was delivered to the legislature,
and their opinion enforced by the fact that the
two months, which had intervened, disclosed none
of that awful hostility in action which this gas-
conade would imply. But the governour formed
a different opinion of the character of the act.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 335

He considered, however ineffectual at home, that
it would be magnified and misunderstood abroad,
and that in the negotiations with the belligerents,
little effect could be produced if in the very bosom
of the American people, rebellion had commenced,
and revolution been solemnly proposed.

The reproof of the governour was not however
confined to the political assembly in the capital.
The clergy came in for a share, exceedingly well
merited by any of them who perverted the religion
of peace into a vehicle for the gratification of un-
hallowed passion, and disturbed the solemnities of
the sabbath, by irreverent allusions to the political
altercations of the week.

Most of the Congregational clergy in Massa-
chusetts belonged to the federal party, and made
it as much matter of conscience to avow their
political as their theological tenets. Nothing
served more to embitter the condition of society,
and as no ostensible remedy presented, nothing
was more irritating and offensive than a constant
exposure to this unhallowed conduct, which fre-
quently mingled imprecation with prayer, and
converted the temple of religion into a theatre
of politics. The right of a clergyman as a citizen
to hold his own free opinions, and his duty to con-
tinue a patriot as well as christian, never was con-
troverted by the republican party, but the proprie-
ty of his indulging himself in the opportunity,
which his situation gave him, to wound the feel-

336 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ings by denouncing the motives, and censuring
the conduct of any of his parishioners on matters
of public concern, was denied by them to be
either right in principle or decorous in practice.
As part of a system to degrade the individuals
of the democratic party, it was extensively pur-
sued. To clerical influence thus improperly, and
for the profession dangerously exerted, the federal-
ists had been for a long period greatly indebted,
and individuals in the sacred desk, marked by the
honours of Harvard, were as distinguished for
their zeal in the secular concerns of the state, as
for their labours in the kingdom of their spiritual
master. Seceders in escaping from such unchris-
tian assaults to attend the teaching of more seri-
ous guides, were by the law as it stood, frequently
subjected to a double tax, and the inconvenience
was so seriously felt, as to become a subject of
very general concern. The governour thus noticed
the matter in his speech :

" It is a happy circumstance, and does great
honour to our clergy, that there exists among them
a general spirit of religious liberality and toler-
ance. They advance in the straight road of piety,
which is always strewed with flowers. Should any
wander into the devious path of party politics, the
injury will not extend beyond themselves, and they
will soon retreat from the lacerations of briars and
thorns which will meet them at every step. A
late solemn decision of our supreme judicial court

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 337

has limited the right of protestant teachers of
piety, religion and morality, to demand the taxes
paid by their respective hearers for the support of
public worship to those of incorporated societies,
and has produced a great excitement ; this may
render indispensable an attention to the subject,
and further provisions to encourage by every pos-
sible mean the liberty of conscience in relation
to religious opinion and worship."

The temper of the governour's speech met ex-
actly that of the two branches of the legislature.
Answers were returned from the senate and house
in accordance with its language and measures
taken to secure by legislative means, the policy
and power of the party, which at present con-
trolled the commonwealth.

At the summer and succeeding winter session
of the legislature, various statutes were enacted,
and by the governour appointments were in the
mean time conferred, which as they kept up
through the year the highest excitement of party,
cannot be passed here without notice. If flushed
with victory, the dominant power exceeded the
measures of prudence, or stung by indignities of
long duration, they seized on the first moment of
authority to recover from humiliation and enthral-
ment, and proceeded too fiercely and too rapidly
in their innovations, or imitated too exactly in
their own favour the errors, which they complain-
ed of on the other side, the consequences may be

vol. ii. 43

338 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

a lesson of forbearance, and moderate the zeal of
all future parties, as well in their rage for reform-
ation as by inculcating feelings of respect for the
minority opposed to them.

Of measures of a permanent character, the "act
respecting public worship and religious freedom,"
deserves first to be mentioned, as the greatest al-
teration of the then existing laws, as complying
with the recommendation of the governour to
extend and secure liberty of conscience, as the
overthrow of ecclesiastical domination, and as con-
tinuing to increase in the estimation of the com-
munity until, as at present, it is the most popular
enactment in the statute book.

It provided that all moneys paid by any citizen
of this commonwealth to the support of public
worship or of public teachers of religion, shall if
such citizen require it, be uniformly applied to the
support of the public teacher of his own religious
sect or denomination, provided there be any on
whose instruction he usually attends. A further
section provided for the citizens leaving one socie-
ty and joining another, and thereby being exempt-
ed from taxation for the support of the one he had
left.

That a law of such immense consequence should
have then for the first time found the support of
the government, is evidence of the attachment
with which men cling to ancient abuses if they
conduce to the advancement of political interests.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 339

The extension of the right of suffrage as wide-
ly as the constitution permitted, was secured by a
law for that purpose.

With the avowed purpose of equalising the pe-
cuniary facilities of the community, the entire
banking capital, strange as it may seem, having
hitherto been exclusively under federal control,
a charter was granted for the incorporation of a
state bank with a capital of three millions of dol-
lars, the stock of which, upon a principle of reci-
procity, was secured to the friends of the party in
power.

To restore as far as possible the confidence of
the community in the administration of justice,
and to give some weight to the personal influence
of the republican party, which for many years past
had been systematically excluded from the bench,
the court of common pleas was abolished and a
circuit court established, consisting of five circuits,
with a chief justice and two puisne judges in
each. With the same view the law of 1809,
which had abolished the ancient court of sessions
was repealed, and a new law enacted, reviving the
court and directing a chief justice, and not less
than two nor more than four associate justices, to
be appointed. With the supreme judicial court
the party did not interfere. In respect for the
authority of the constitution, this forbearance was
observed ; it having been conceded, after due de-
liberation, by men having the confidence of the

340 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

dominant party, that neither the court nor the
judges were within the power of the legislature.
The result was very reluctantly acceded to, for
the imposing influence of that court had been felt
in the political agitation of the times, and some of
its judges, like some ministers of the gospel, had
been unwise enough to give to the extension of
their political feelings the aid directly derived from
their official authority.

Harvard college, which had very long been a
powerful opponent to the republican party ; which
by making literary men federalists had made fe-
deralism popular, and with offensive aristocracy of
manners had educated the youth under its care
in the admiration of similar principles, did not es-
cape the reforming hand of men, who considered
that institution as the property of the state, and
were unwilling that the state's pensioners should
undermine the mansion in which they were domi-
ciled.

So long had the federal party been in the habit
of controlling the judicial, literary and religious in-
stitutions in the commonwealth, and so completely
and habitually had all of them by long usage con-
formed to the views and sentiments of the federal
party, that the principles and manner by which
these institutions were conducted, seemed less the
direction of that party than the natural and legiti-
mate mode of their existence, and any alteration
was therefore proclaimed to be not an alteration

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 341

of a party system, but an overthrow of the insti-
tutions themselves. The federal party had been
so long masters in the state, that it seemed to
them quite natural they should be. Their intol-
erance and exclusiveness was so habitual as al-
most to be unknown to themselves, and they
were as much astonished and alarmed at these in-
novations, as the West India planters would be
at an insurrection of their slaves, or a claim by
that class of the population, so to alter the laws
of the land as to entitle them to participate in the
rights of freemen.

These acts were therefore opposed in and out of
the legislature, and an outcry set up that the days
of the Visi-Goths had returned, and that a modern
Alaric was about to scatter desolation and ruin.

Had the dominant party limited their opera-
tions to these measures of public policy and just
retaliation, it is possible they might have been
defended with success, but there were spirits
among them too ardent to be checked by mere
calculations of prudence, and too desirous of the
trophies of victory to be satisfied with less than
the field.

It was therefore further enacted that the clerks
of all the judicial courts who had hitherto been
appointed by the supreme court, should cease to
hold their place, and that successors should be ap-
pointed by the governour with consent of coun-
cil. The offices of sheriffs were declared vacant,

342 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

and an appointment for four years unless sooner
dismissed by the executive, was enjoined on the
governour.

Nothing could be more unfortunate for a party
situated as was the republican, than the condition
in which these appointments placed it. The pa-
tronage of office, even if it be allowed to operate
silently and quietly, is at best but of doubtful ad-
vantage ; for as the number of applicants always
greatly exceed the situations to be filled, there
are produced ten angry opponents for one luke-
warm or ungrateful friend. Under existing cir-
cumstances, policy required the removals and ap-
pointments to be made without delay, that the
effects of the convulsion might be sooner over,
and not, by protracting anxiety and interest, con-
tinually keep alive the passions of the community.
But this decisive and prompt movement was im-
possible. In the first place, the laws in some
respects were not easily to be executed. In the
second place, they would produce scenes of pri-
vate misery, at which the governour relucted, and
finally refused to inflict. Again his personal ac-
quaintance with the influential men out of the
capital, and especially in the eastern part of the
commonwealth, was exceedingly limited, and the
contradictory accounts given by the friends of nu-
merous competitors, perplexing and unsatisfactory.
Time therefore was allowed to those, who expected
to be removed from lucrative situations, to exert

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 343

with redoubled zeal their spirit of natural hostility,
while the counteracting influence of place and
power, which the party intended to wield, was not
yet within their reach. The nonexecution of the
law in some cases gave offence, the manner of
its being executed was in others cause of com-
plaint, so that probably a measure, or rather series
of measures, contrived to establish by official in-
fluence the power of the party, and denounced
and believed by its opponents to be conceived in
a spirit of indiscriminate proscription, failed to
conciliate the approbation of its friends.

Notwithstanding the general overthrow of the
incumbents of office, a liberality was observed in
appointments in the judicial department which
had not before nor since been observed. On every
circuit one federalist and two democrats were put
on the bench. The solicitor general of the state,
the clerks of the judicial courts in Suffolk and
Middlesex, and the sheriff of Suffolk, were per-
mitted to hold their places ; offices whose aggre-
gate value and consequence, was nearly equal to
all that were displaced.*

If it was wise to have put nearly the whole ap-
pointments to office into the hands of the execu-
tive, the measure should have been executed with
an unsparing and steady hand. If either from
the consideration of the executive or the situation
of the incumbents, it was impossible to carry such
laws into immediate operation, it was unwise and

* Appendix B.

344 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

impolitic to have passed them. To seek power
incurs odium. It is a fault therefore to acquire
what it is impracticable to use.

It was hardly possible that a general removal
could be made with satisfaction to the friends of
the party who proposed it. There were attach-
ments, connexions and interests, which made it
not in all cases an agreeable task. Individual
feeling and general interest were not always to be
reconciled. In the arrangement the governour
did not escape censure, but there were intelligent
and candid men willing to bestow praise. A let-
ter from a gentleman then of high consideration
in the ranks of the party, and now eminently be-
fore the nation, contains the following paragraphs.

" I thank you very sincerely for your kind con-
gratulations on my recent appointment, [by the
government of the United States.] As to the
appointment of sheriff, I cannot but express my
thanks for the kind attention you have paid to
the feelings and wishes of Mr. B's friends. His
removal has been made as little painful to them
as it could be, and I have no doubt the measure
was the result of a careful deliberation, and a
wish to promote the public good. * *

" I thought it right to state thus much to your
excellency, that you might perceive that though
my voice was decidedly for Mr. B. yet I was ready
to acknowledge and to feel the strong motives,
which induced a new appointment, and to believe
them the dictates of sound deliberation.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 345

" I beg leave to express my sincere acknow-
ledgments for the personal favours, which your
excellency has been pleased to bestow on me, and
to assure you that I shall carry into my new situa-
tion the deepest sense of my obligations to your
friendship and patronage.

" Wishing you the enjoyment of domestic and
public happiness, a reward justly earned by a long
life, faithfully devoted to the public service, I beg
to subscribe myself, with great consideration," &c.

The dominant party made a much more fatal
mistake in a law for dividing the commonwealth
into districts for the choice of counsellors and
senators.

The constitution provided that " the senate of
the state should consist of forty members, chosen
by the inhabitants of the districts into which the
commonwealth may from time to time be divided
by the general court for that purpose," and in as-
signing numbers to be elected by the respective
districts, " regard should be had to the proportion
of the public taxes paid in said districts."

The right of the legislature to divide the state
into districts, provided the proportion between the
number of senators and the amount of tax was
properly observed, seems not to be doubtful. The
propriety of an alteration of the existing districts
was therefore a question of policy. In the new
arrangement, such contiguous towns were classed

vol. ii. 44

346 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

together as ensured to the democratic party a
small majority in most of the districts, and gave a
large majority to the federalists in the others so
that with an equal number of voters on each side
throughout the state, the former party would, ac-
cording to the votes of the two last previous elec-
tions be sure of a majority of senators. By in-
creasing the number of their districts, it became
obvious that they lessened their majority of voters
in each of them, and although such an arrange-
ment increased the number of their senators, it
did no more than give them a majority, which
even by parting with some they would still have
retained. It was obvious too, that if there was
only a small majority of voters in a district, the
result of an election was exposed to hazard from
the change of opinion even of a few individuals,
and the consequence therefore was unnecessarily
precarious.

But besides this, the new districts were ar-
ranged by breaking up counties, which had formed,
as far as was possible, the ancient limits of sena-
torial districts, or by joining several counties to-
gether. They thus destroyed old associations
and threw the electors into new combinations and
connexions, in which local and territorial interests
were confounded.

In all these respects the law was injudicious,
but there was a stronger objection to it in the obvi-
ous motive to retain power in the hands of a party
even against the will of the people. There was

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 347

an apparent management, too plain not to be per-
ceived, and which being seen, was universally
reprobated.

It is true this was not the first instance of the
kind in state legislation. The districts for the
election of members of congress had always been
arranged by the federal party, as far as could be
done, with the same object and on the same sys-
tem. But while the geographical line of coun-
ties was necessarily passed for those elections,
the intention, if in truth as certain, was less easily
brought home and fastened on its authors. In the
present instance it was too apparent to be denied,
and the design and management were instantly
reprobated by the opposition, as fiercely as if they
had themselves always been innocent of a similar
transgression.

To the governour the project of this law was
exceedingly disagreeable. He urged to his friends
strong arguments against its policy as well as its
effects. After it had passed both houses, he hesi-
tated to give it his signature, and meditated to
return it to the legislature with his objections
to its becoming a law, but being satisfied that it
conformed to the constitution, he doubted whether
against precedents to the contrary, the private
opinion of a governour on a mere question of pro-
priety or policy, would justify the interposition of
his negative, and he accordingly permitted it to
pass. Notwithstanding his hostility to the project

348 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

and his repugnance to its passage, the opposition
had the address to have him in the public mind
considered the author of the plan, and to affix to
it a variation of his name to encourage the belief
that it was his own individual invention.

The public feeling was by all these measures,
by the ardour which on one side supported, and
the violence which on the other assailed them,
excited to a high and almost insupportable tone.
It displayed itself in newspaper publications of a
character the most pungent and severe. The
speech of the governour to the legislature in
June was followed by a series of essays under
the signature of the Boston Rebel, in which all
the usual forms of respect to a chief magistrate
were violated ; and his proclamation for thanks-
giving published in October discussed in a similar
series under the signature of a real christian, and
old fashioned whig, which surpassed in intem-
perance of expression whatever before had been
considered the limits of political severity. These
and others of a like character were written with
great force of talent and ingenuity, and being very
extensively circulated, were calculated to produce
powerful effects. Retorts were not wanting from
the side of the administration, and a threaten-
ing letter having been anonymously sent to the
governour, he thought fit to issue a proclama-
tion for the detection of the author, in which
he says, " such an attempt is an effort to pros-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 349

trate at the feet of debased and slanderous prin-
ters, and of their more criminal employers, the
indispensable administration of justice ; * * * *
to complete the triumph of calumny, falsehood,
injustice and malignant passions, crimes which by
means of incendiary writers and printers in this
state, have obtained an ascendency unparalleled
in any other ; which have been principally directed
against the legislative and executive public func-
tionaries of the national and state governments,
with a manifest intention to overthrow both, and
which also have been employed to destroy private
character, the inestimable property of both sexes."

The extraordinary latitude assumed by writers
in the public journals, in their commentaries on
the conduct and motives of the public agents, and
the recrimination to which it led, together with
some other circumstances connected with the
licentiousness of the press, naturally drew the
attention of the community to the power of the
law over this delicate subject, and the protection,
which the citizen might enjoy against calumny, as
well as the claim he had to receive intelligence
and information on matters interesting and im-
portant.

At the opening of the supreme court in Boston
in November, the learned judge, who presided,
deemed it useful to place the matter distinctly be-
fore the grand jury. With the principles, which
he stated to be law, no objection can be found.

350 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The doctrine of libel was perfectly well defined ;
yet nevertheless, by the public generally, the charge
was believed to imply the lawfulness of that kind
of attack, which had been made on the functiona-
ries of the government, and to secure from punish-
ment, by the exceptions and limitations, which it
disclosed, all or nearly all the authors and printers
of the several pieces, which had attracted the par-
ticular observation of the community. The charge
of the judge was published in the newspapers.
If in the execution of his high trust a judicial
officer correctly propounds the provisions of law,
he is not responsible, most certainly, for the erro-
neous construction, which may be given to his
opinions, or the wrong application which may be
made of them. But if the existing law on any
subject be unjust or unwise, it becomes the duty
of the supreme executive magistrate to communi-
cate his view of it to the legislature, to the end
that it may be reformed by their authority. It is
not however to be doubted that the high officers of
government, keeping strictly in the path of their
legitimate authority, may yet countenance opin-
ions or measures, the direct agency of which
they would deem it imprudent to assume ; and
that while the judges of the land were separated
like the ancient Levites to a special service and
a consecrated duty, it was not always possible
for them to forget that politics as well as learning
had been their qualification of admission to the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 351

temple of justice. The time had been, as already
narrated, when the expression of a partizan tem-
per was indulged with impunity. It was not
now entirely safe, but the indirect influence of
the judicial character was still powerful, and the
individuals who wore the ermine knew they con-
tinued to be citizens, and felt themselves obliged
to be federalists.

The governour was aware of the impression,
which the charge of the judge was calculated to
produce. It caused a correspondence between
them, which is sufficiently original and amusing to
be introduced here. There was a strong reluc-
tance in the republican party to do any thing,
which the constitution would not authorize in re-
gard to the judicial institutions of the state ; but
it is not questionable that they would gladly have
taken advantage of any fair opportunity, to have
placed a representative of their own sentiments
and feelings on the bench of a tribunal, which
deciding in the last resort on life, liberty, property
and character, had for all the period of party pas-
sion been exclusively in the possession of the
opposite political class.

352 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

MR. SECRETARY HOMANS TO JUDGE PARKER.

Council Chameer, January 7, 1812.

Sir,

His excellency governour Gerry directs me to
present his compliments to you, with a request to
be informed, whether the publication in the Boston
newspapers or either of them, is a correct state-
ment or copy of your charge to the grand jury of
Suffolk on the subject of libels, and if so the
governour requests you will be pleased to inform
him.

I have the honour to be, &c. &c.

Benjamin Homans, Secretary.

JUDGE PARKER TO MR. SECRETARY HOMANS.

Wednesday Morning.

Sir,

I received your communication too late last
evening to return an answer, being absent when
it was left at my house.

I now request you to inform his excellency that
not having the manuscript, from which my charge
was read to the grand jury, in my possession, and
not having read it in the newspapers, it is impos-
sible for me to say whether it has been correctly
printed or not. If however his excellency shall
inform me that he deems it necessary in his

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 353

administration of the executive department of
government, to know with precision what has
been done by me on the subject alluded to, in my
administration of the judiciary department, I will
as soon as the great mass of business with which
I am pressed will permit, recover the manuscript,
and transmit his excellency a fair copy of it.
Your obedient servant,

Isaac Parker.
B. HomanSj Esqr.

GOVERNOUR GERRY TO JUDGE PARKER.

Council Chamber, February 8, 1812.

Sir,

Having been pressed by public measures on
the 7th of January last, I desired Mr. Secretary
Homans to request of you information in regard to
the correctness of the publication of your charge
to the grand jury of Suffolk, on the subject of
libels ; and the next day he sent to me your an-
swer, stating that you was also pressed by a great
mass of business, and that, as soon as this will
permit, you will inform me with precision, what
has been done by you on the subject alluded to,
in your administration of the judiciary department,
if I deem it officially necessary. This I do ; but
have waited to the present time, desirous of avoid-
ing every measure that may have embarrassed or

vol. ii. 45

354 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

incommoded you amidst your important public
concerns. Being informed that your session will
probably close this day, I wish in the advanced
state of the present session of the legislature for
the earliest information mentioned in your letter,
except the bills of indictments of which I have
certified copies.

I have the honour to be, sir,
With great respect,

Your obedient servant,

E. Gerry.

The Hon. Isaac Parker,

A Judge of the Supreme Judicial Court.

JUDGE PARKER TO GOVERNOUR GERRY.

Boston, February 10, 1812.
MAY IT PLEASE YOUR EXCELLENCY :

I had the honour to receive your excellency's
letter of the 8th instant, while on the bench in
the discharge of my judicial functions, and per-
plexed with the multitude and variety of concerns
which usually crowd upon a court towards the
close of its session.

Having since the rising of the court, reperused
your excellency's letter, together with those which
by your excellency's order have been sent to me
by the secretary of the commonwealth in the
course of my arduous official engagements, I

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 355

now deem it to be a duty which I owe to the
public, to your excellency and to myself, to ex-
press with frankness the sentiments they have
occasioned, and to state the principles by which
I as a member of an independent branch of the
government, believe that I ought to be governed.

I need not point out to your excellency that
article in the declaration of rights prefixed to our
constitution, which was intended to establish a
complete and entire separation of the executive,
legislative and judicial powers of government,
nor need I advise your excellency of the import-
ance of such a principle to the well being, if not
to the existence of a free government. I do not
apprehend your excellency has intended, in the ex-
ercise of the executive functions, to interfere with
those of the judiciary, nevertheless as it would be
your excellency's duty to resist even an uninten-
tional encroachment by either of the other branches
of government upon the powers committed to you
by the constitution ; so it is my duty to resist any
such encroachment, although the act which con-
stitutes it, may not in the apprehension of your
excellency have the character which seems to me
to belong to it.

When I received from the secretary of the com-
monwealth his letter, written by your excellency's
directions, on the 7th of January last, requesting
to be informed whether a certain publication in
the newspapers was a correct copy of my charge

356 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

to the grand jury on the subject of libels, I
should have supposed it to have had for its object
the satisfaction of your excellency's mind upon
that point in your private capacity, had not the
supposition been forbidden by the formal manner
of the request, and the important public character
of the officer made use of to transmit it.

Being obliged therefore to consider it a public
proceeding, and not having before known an in-
stance in which a judge had been called upon
when in the midst of his official labours, by the
chief executive magistrate, to avow or disavow
any proceeding attributed to him, and being left
to conjecture the motive which suggested the call,
your excellency will readily conceive that I had
reason to apprehend that some important public
measure was intended by your excellency to be
predicated upon the fact when ascertained, of the
genuineness of the publication.

The legislature being then about to commence
its session, the least important view in which I
could personally consider the subject, was that
your excellency intended to make my charge to
the grand jury the basis of some part of your
communication to that body, but on reflecting,
that if there was any thing in the doctrine ad-
vanced by me, which ought to excite the attention
of the legislature, every member of either branch
had the same means of seeing what had been
attributed to me, which your excellency had

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 357

possessed, and also, upon reflecting that what-
ever was stated by me to the grand jury to be the
law upon the subject of libels, which differed from
the generally known and received doctrine of the
common law, was to be found in an opinion of the
whole court, as declared by the chief justice in
the case of the Commonwealth against William
Clapp, since published in the authorized reports
of judicial decisions, I was led to believe that a
supposed amendment of the law was not the ob-
ject for which your excellency required of me an
acknowledgment of the charge, but that some
object of a personal nature towards me was in
your excellency's contemplation. It was for this
reason, that in answer to your request I stated,
that if your excellency would inform me that you
deemed it necessary in your administration of the
executive department of government, to know
with precision what had been done by me on the
subject alluded to in my administration of the ju-
diciary department, 1 would transmit you a cor-
rect copy of the charge.

Having received no such information from your
excellency, and having perceived in your excel-
lency's speech to the legislature, a general refer-
ence to the subject of libels, and having also per-
ceived in the newspaper account of the proceed-
ings of the house, that a committee had been
raised upon this subject, I was advised again to
consider that all your excellency's views were in

358 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the way of being answered, and that there was
no occasion for any information from me.

" On January 31, however, I was surprised by
another communication from the secretary of state,
authorized by your excellency as he states, ex-
pressing your excellency's desire to see the letter
which was first received by me upon this subject,
and although I was unable to discern any motive
for the request, I forwarded a copy of it to the
secretary, which I presume has been laid before
your excellency.

I am now distinctly informed by a direct com-
munication from your excellency, that the infor-
mation wanted from me is for the purpose of pre-
dicating upon it some further communication to
the legislature, but whether with a view to effect
the general object of an alteration of the law, or
to inculpate me for any supposed error in my
charge to the grand jury, is still left for me to
conjecture.

If the former be the object, it is only necessary
for your excellency to be apprised of what the
law now is, which if not sufficiently explained in
the case decided by the whole court before al-
luded to, I shall be ready, as will my brethren,
(pursuant to a provision of the constitution,^ to
assist your excellency in forming a definite opinion
upon. My charge was intended to explain to the
grand jury, the law upon the subject of libels, as
existing according to the principles of the com-

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY. 359

mon law, and the decisions of the judiciary under
the constitution. I presume it contains nothing
beyond this intention ; and if it does, it would be
an unsafe basis to predicate a charge upon, be-
cause then it would be no evidence of the law as
it now exists.

The principle adopted by the court, in the case
referred to, naturally and necessarily flows from
the nature of our government, and from our con-
stitution. The same clause in the constitution
which adopts the common law, rejects any part of
it which may contravene the principles of the
constitution, and although the legislature has an
undoubted right to repeal the common law by ex-
press statute, yet until they shall have exercised
that right, the courts of law are bound by their
oaths to refuse operation to any principle of the
common law, whenever such principle shall be
found repugnant to the rights and liberties secured
by the constitution. But it is a most remarkable
fact in the history of a free people, that complaints
should be heard against a doctrine so essential to
liberty in an elective government ; and that a de-
parture from the common law (established princi-
pally under a monarchical government,) which de-
parture is in favour of truth and freedom of en-
quiry, should be questioned in a country where
the people are sovereign and all public officers are
agents of the people.

If however the object of your excellency is to
obtain from me facts whereon to predicate a

360 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

charge against me, for any incorrect opinion de-
livered by me to the public through the grand
jury of this county, your excellency must be
sensible that I might avail myself of the common
right of all persons accused to withhold any in-
formation which may tend to support charges
made against themselves, and would therefore, on
this supposition, readily excuse me for not com-
plying with your request.

If the house of representatives, the grand in-
quest of the commonwealth, shall see fit to in-
stitute an enquiry into any of my judicial acts, I
shall most cheerfully and unreservedly answer any
question and acknowledge any act necessary to
their investigation.

But I deem it to be my solemn duty to the
public, and to such as may hereafter occupy my
place, to protect, as far as in me lies, the inde-
pendence of the department to which I belong, and
never by any act of mine, to acquiesce in a claim
of the executive to arraign the conduct or the
motives of the judiciary, in a manner not author-
ised by the constitution.

In so conducting, I shall maintain the constitu-
tion which we are all sworn to support, shall pro-
mote the interest of the people for whose happi-
ness it was made, and shall render the character
of a judge in some measure, what the constitution
declares it ought to be, " as independent as the
lot of humanity will admit."

Upon these principles I should have been origi-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 361

nally justified in declining to submit my charge
to your excellency's scrutiny. But on recurring
to the conditional engagement I made to your
excellency, and being now informed that your
excellency deems it officially necessary, I should
were it in my power immediately transmit your
excellency a copy. Upon enquiry I have learned
that the manuscript was delivered over by one of
the grand jury to the editor of the newspaper
called the Patriot, with whom I suppose it still
remains, having never seen it since it was de-
livered to the jury \ and not having any copy of
it, I enclose an order, by which I suppose it may
be obtained, if your excellency thinks it important
to have it. If I should have been mistaken in as-
cribing views and intentions which do not exist,
(which the peculiar state of the times may have
caused me to do,) your excellency I hope will
pardon this interruption to your important labours.
I have the honour to be with respect,
Your excellency's obedient servant,

Isaac Parker.

The Editor or Printer of the Patriot

Will please to deliver to the order of his excel-
lency governour Gerry, the manuscript from which
a charge delivered by me to the grand jury, was
printed. Isaac Parker.

Boston, Mth Feb. 1812.

vol. ii. 46

362 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Messrs. Munroe 6y* French,

The governour wishes to have the original here-
in alluded to, as soon as convenient. Your's,

Benjamin Homans.

17 th Feb. 1812.

Mr. Farley, who handed to us the charge, ob-
served that it would be called for the next day.
We laid it aside and carefully preserved it for sev-
eral days. It not being called for, we neglected
any further care of it, and an observation of Mr.
Farley some days after, that " it was printed cor-
rectly," inducing a belief that it would never be
wanted, it has been mislaid, and we are sorry to
say, is possibly destroyed.
Respectfully,

Munroe & French.

GOVERNOUR GERRY TO JUDGE PARKER.

Cambridge, March 2, 1812.

Sir, — On the 7th of January last, I presented
through the secretary of the commonwealth, to
yourself as an honourable judge of the supreme
judicial court, a respectful request for information,
" whether the publication was correct, of your
charge to the grand jury of Suffolk, on the subject
of libels," and received the next day your answer

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 363

to him, that " not having the manuscript or read
the charge in the newspapers, you could not say
whether it has been correctly printed or not, but
that if I deemed it necessary in my administration
of the executive department, to know with preci-
sion what has been done by you, on the subject
alluded to, in your judicial capacity, you would as
soon as business would permit, recover the manu-
script, and transmit to me a fair copy of it."

On the 8th of February, I informed you by let-
ter, that I deemed the information requested,
" officially necessary," but had waited till the close
of your session, " having been desirous of avoiding
every measure, that may have embarrassed or in-
commoded you amidst your important public con-
cerns." A day or two after, the secretary deliv-
ered me, when much occupied, a manuscript of
two sheets which were not enveloped, and took
from them a scrip, which perusing, I found to be
your order on the editor of the Patriot for the
manuscript of the charge, and concluding that the
two sheets contained the charge itself, I hastily
put them into a file, and did not until the 17th of
February, discover that they contained your an-
swer of the 10th to my letter of the 8th of Feb-
ruary. Immediately after this discovery, the se-
cretary by my desire, sent your order to the printer
of the Patriot, who stated, that the manuscript
containing the charge, was mislaid or destroyed.

The subsequent circumstances, immaterial in

364 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

my mind, are mentioned to relieve your's from the
uneasiness you expressed, at your having received
on the bench, my letter of the 10th of February.
This was an unavoidable accident and contrary to
my order, which directed the delivery of the letter
at your house, on the presumption that you would
receive it after the rising of the supreme judicial
court. The frequency of such errors on the part
of messengers usually renders unnecessary ex-
planations of this kind. But this complaint, sir,
is enforced by your solemn notice, that two letters
were by my " order" sent to you by the secretary,
in the course of your arduous official engagements.
One of these letters, that of the 7th of January,
already referred to, you had mentioned as having
received at your house ; where the other was de-
livered, I know not, but had supposed at the same
place ; indeed it did not appear to me material, as
both letters consisted of but few lines, and the
object of the last was to obtain a copy of the first,
to ascertain whether it contained any thing offen-
sive to yourself. On perusing it, I was happy to
find it free from such a charge. Having taken so
much of your time, sir, in explaining accidents and
matters which unexpectedly had disturbed your
mind, I now deem it to be a duty, which I owe to
the public, to you and to myself, to enclose a
printed copy, which I presume is correct, of my
message on the 27th of February last to the legis-
lature, and to state, that it was for the purpose of

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 365

making this communication to the legislature, at
an early period of its session that the information
in regard to your charge was requested. I do not
apprehend the supreme judicial court has intended
in the exercise of its judicial functions, to inter-
fere with those of the legislature or executive.
But I perfectly agree with you, sir, " that it is my
duty to resist an unintentional encroachment, al-
though the act which constitutes it, may not in.
the apprehension of that court, have the character
which seems to me to belong to it."

It was surprising to me to learn by your letter,
" that you was led to believe some object of a per-
sonal nature, toward yourself was in my contem-
plation," conscious as I was of never having ex-
pressed a sentiment or opinion in regard to your-
self which could have authorised that belief, or
that had not made a very favourable impression.
It was impossible then for me to conceive what
other reasons could exist in your mind for such a
belief, or for supposing me capable of attempting
to draw from you information, to criminate your-
self. No part of my conduct, I trust, could war-
rant such a suspicion.

What has been stated, sir, I presume is sufficient
to show, that altercation on my request in regard
to your charge was unnecessary ; that you was at
liberty to comply or not with that request ; and
that it resulted from a sense of official duty.

I regret, sir, that " the peculiar state of the

366 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

times may have caused you to ascribe to me views
and intentions," which did not, and could not exist,
and the more so, as in the case of your refusal to
admit John Shirley Williams, Esq. commissioned
by me (and duly qualified) as a clerk of the judi-
cial courts of the county of Norfolk, your con-
duct was not considered as an opposition to law,
or to the executive authority ; but was viewed and
treated by me as an inadvertence on the part of
the supreme judicial court, too minute to make any
serious impression.

My desire and intention are to support the dig-
nity and authority of the judicial, as well as of
the other departments of government.

I have the honour to be, sir, respectfully
Your obedient servant,

E. Gerry.

Hon. Isaac Parker,

An associate Justice of the Supreme Judicial Court.

Before the close of the legislature the gover-
nour made a communication on the subject of
libels and the charge of the justice of the supreme
court in connexion therewith. In this message
he remarks :

" The honourable judge Parker in his charge,
states that a more important variance (than had
been by him mentioned) from the strict common
law principles relating to libels, has lately been

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 367

adopted here as resulting from the nature of our
government and the express provisions of our con-
stitution ; this is that in trials of indictment for
libels upon persons holding offices, which depend
upon an election by the people or permitting
themselves to be candidates for such offices, the
accused is permitted to give the truth in evidence.
The judges have not confined themselves in their
variance from the common law, as it is conceived
they ought to have done, to the express provisions
of our constitution, but have taken an indefinite
rule for their conduct, namely, " the nature of our
government." They have also implied if not ex-
pressed that in the support of libels upon judges
and executive officers not elected by the people,
the truth is not to be given in evidence ; but their
reasons for these positions are not stated. " If
a bad man is at any time held up for the office of
governour, senator or representative," it may be de-
sirable, as judge Parker states, " to let the people
know, through the medium of the press, that they
cannot elect such a man without disgracing or ruin-
ing themselves." And is it not equally true that
if there are in office bad judges, they ought to be
placed precisely on the same ground, that their
mal-practices being publicly exposed, may meet
prompt investigation and produce their removal
and punishment ? Can it be denied that as great
a proportion of judges as of other public function-
aries, in all countries and ages, have been bad

368 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

men, although by their professional address they
may have been more successful in escaping punish-
ment ; and if the conduct of a judge is to be ex-
empt from the press, may not the judicial de-
partment by the power, which they are now ex-
ercising, and by the doctrines, which are and may
be promulgated by them, establish an unconstitu-
tional and dangerous influence in the state."

" If the judicial department of the state should
at any time consist of bad men, who are desirous
to oppose and overthrow the national and state
governments, or either of them ; to favour or
frown on individuals according to their political
opinions ; to punish one individual severely and an-
other lightly for the same offence ; to protect the
guilty and punish the innocent, or to commit under
the garb of justice any other atrocities, ought not
such mal-practices to be exposed by the press in
order to procure the removal of every such offender
from office, as well as the misconduct of indi-
viduals who are in, or may be candidates for
offices, to prevent their election by the people."

These pregnant intimations were communicated
to the legislature at too late a period of the session
to be very thoroughly and extensively understood,
and the change of administration prevented any
further proceedings.

There were men in the confidence of the gov-
emour, who would have been willing and able to
have prevented any very serious attack on the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 869

judicial functionaries, though they might have
been contented to alarm the possessors of that
delicate power with the apprehension that it was
not in future to be used, if ever in past time it
had been, with partiality or favour.

The matter, however, already disclosed had too
distinctive a character not to intimidate those,
whose esprit du corps attached them to the judi-
ciary establishment, and added another phalanx to
the party, who would be desirous of changing the
administration of the state.

The war between Great Britain and the United
States, which was not declared by congress until
17th June 1812, was already seen to be in progress.
Indications of the approaching storm had been
clearly discernible from the proceedings of the
national councils. To all the local concerns,
which have been enumerated, and to numerous
others of high excitement at the moment, which
swell the history of party contest in Massachusetts,
was added the connexion between the government
of the nation and the interest of the common-
wealth. Federalists were a peace party. War
with England was, by their code of national honour,
unjust and unnatural. Those lofty sentiments of
pride, those chivalrous feelings which at a former
period sounded boldly and gallantly at the pros-
pect of hostility, if they had not subsided, were
silenced, and gave place to grave questions of
prudence and close calculations of economy. The

vol. ii. 47

570 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

governour belonged to the war council. To the
measures of the national administration he gave
his most cordial approbation, and disregarding his
own personal popularity or interest, made the
whole object of his efforts to consist in giving to
the general government all the aid that could in
any way be derived from the wealth, the power
and concurrence of the state. In his address to
the legislature, on their assembling in January, he
had discussed the various subjects of controversy
existing between the United States and foreign
governments, insisting on the correctness of our
own conduct, the impossibility of any other, con-
sistently with self-respect or public interest, and
on the duty of our citizens of every party to gather
round the standard, which the government had
raised. With a boldness suited rather to his own
character than to the policy of the times, he impu-
ted in plain terms a deficiency of patriotism and a
defect of public spirit to whomsoever, in the ap-
proaching contest, should hesitate to strengthen
the arm of his country. Coming directly to the
point at which all the arrangements of the govern-
ment tended, though they had not then been
announced, he says : " If Great Britain had been
wise and just, a war with her would be contrary to
the mutual interests of both nations. Under exist-
ing circumstances it will be a wonderful event to
be explained only by her political blindness or
obstinate injustice. Will it not accelerate her

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 371

own destruction ? This, which is in her power to
prevent, is not the object of the United States.
They would deeply regret it. But their existence
as an independent nation depends on their main-
taining their rights or repelling a further inva-
sion of them and obtaining justice for past injuries.
In support of the dignified and energetic conduct
of our national government, will not the citizens
of this state be ardent, to pledge their property,
their lives, and their sacred honour ? The present
state of our country, the spirit of the nation, the
union of her citizens, her ability (in her zenith)
to enforce her rights, the hazard on the part of
Great Britain of refusing justice ; all conspire to
confirm the policy of decision and vigour, by the
United States, and the individual states. — If at
this momentous crisis the nation should cease to
respect herself, and shrink from the indispensable
duty of self-preservation, shall we not be urged
soon by the advocates of vassalage to supplicate
his Britannic majesty to admit us again into his
royal favour as penitent subjects, to grant us his
kind protection, and to cheer us with his paternal
smiles, and above all, to recommend us to the
patronage of his faithful royalists in these his duti-
ful provinces ?"

In the contest, which the governour's personal
and official influence was incessantly exerted to
accelerate, the power of the enemy, which it
suited the policy of the opposition to enlarge, did

372 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

not alarm him. He felt a confidence in the re-
sources of the country and spirit of the citizens,
which on every occasion he earnestly endeavoured
extensively to inspire and diffuse. The evidence
amon<r other measures is in the communication of
the following message to the general court, on
21st January 1012.

Gentlemen of the Senate, and

Gentlemen of the House of Representatives.

It being officially announced that the Indians
complain " they cannot receive the usual supplies
of goods, by reason of the nonimportation act,
and that they are not to be purchased within the
United States," I submit to your consideration
whether it is not incumbent on this state to use
the means in its power for enabling the national
government to rise superior to such an humiliating
circumstance.

In the year 1775, when our war with Great
Britain commenced, and when immediately pre-
ceding it a nonimportation act had been strictly
carried into effect, the state of Massachusetts ap-
portioned on their towns respectively to be manu-
factured by them, the articles of clothing wanted
for their proportion of the army, which besieged
Boston, and fixed the prices and qualities of those
articles, and they were duly supplied within a
short period. Thus before we had arrived at the
threshold of independence, and when we were in

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 373

an exhausted state by the antecedent voluntary
and patriotic sacrifice of our commerce, between
thirteen and fourteen thousand cloth coats were
manufactured, made and delivered into our maga-
zine within a few months from the date of the
resolve, which first communicated the requisition.
Thirty-six years have since elapsed, during
twenty-nine of which we have enjoyed peace and
prosperity, and have increased in numbers, manu-
factures, wealth, and resources beyond the most
sanguine expectations.

All branches of this government have declared
their opinion, and I conceive on the most solid
principles, that as a nation we are independent of
every other for the necessaries, conveniences, and
for many of the luxuries of life. Let us not then
at this critical period admit any obstruction, which
we have power to remove, to discourage or retard
the national exertions for asserting and maintain-
ing our rights ; and above all let us convince Great
Britain that we can and will be independent of
her for every article of commerce, whilst she con-
tinues to be the ostensible friend but implacable
foe of our prosperity, government, union and inde-
pendence.

By calling on the inhabitants of this state and
offering them reasonable prices, there exists no
doubt in my mind of our ability to supply every
article of clothing, which may be wanted for our
proportion of troops, that may be wanted to carry

374 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

on a defensive or most vigorous offensive war, and
at the same time every article that may be want-
ed by the Indians.

But if this should appear in any degree a doubt-
ful point, cannot the wealthy and manufacturing
states of Massachusetts, New-York and Pennsyl-
vania, and those north of the latter, effect the
object ?

The question requires not a moment to give a
prompt affirmative answer.

The legislature then having a thorough know-
ledge of the resources of this commonwealth, of
her ability and her disposition to draw them forth
on such an important occasion, leave nothing ne-
cessary to be added on this subject.

E. Gerry.

Council Chamber, Jan. 21, 1812.

It was not by words merely that the governour
proved the strength of his attachment to the policy
of the national cabinet. On 10th of April con-
gress passed an act " authorizing the president of
the United States to require the executives of the
several states and territories to take effectual
measures to organize, arm and equip according to
law, and hold in readiness to march at a moment's
warning, their proportion of one hundred thousand
militia, officers included." The requisition was
made by the president on Massachusetts, for ten
thousand men, as the quota of that state, and the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 3?5

general orders of the governour and commander in
chief were issued on the 25th of the same month,
containing the entire details of the service ; so
promptly did he deem it necessary to meet the
exigency of the case. Nice questions of political
casuistry, as to the relative rights of the state or
the nation over the citizen soldier of the country,
had not been invented to disturb the harmony of
the people, and surely if they had arisen they
would have been treated like the fancies of an un-
sound mind. Under his administration the force
of the state would have been willingly and even
earnestly displayed, in whatever position it could
render the most effectual service. " We have
been," said he, in a private letter of this date,
" long enough at peace ; we are losing our spirit,
our character, and our independence. We are
degenerating into a mere nation of traders, and
are forgetting the honour of our ancestors and the
interest of posterity. We must be roused by
some great event that may stir up the ancient
patriotism of the people. Policy has kept us
quiet until it ceases to be policy. Weakness and
exhaustion prevented us from noble daring, and it
was wise in us to temporize until we gained
strength and vigour. We have now grown to
manhood, and it will be shameful in the man to
bear what the child might submit to without dis-
honour."

But there is some difficulty in raising the tern-

376 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

per of a people long lapsed in indolence and ease to
the energy or the spirit of belligerents. Prepara-
tions for war alarm them. Taxes and loans, and the
personal services, and the cessation of commerce,
which precede it, will always hang a dead weight
on their gallantry. The task is rendered more
difficult when the causes of war may be impugned,
and the evils which it threatens may plausibly be
charged, not on enemies abroad, but on mis-
management at home. To a war with England,
and to that course of administration which now
rendered it inevitable, the whole policy and feel-
ing, and all the zeal and passion of the federal
party had been steadily opposed, and now that
the crisis had arrived, and before the splendours
of conquest and the shouts of victory had inspired
animation and roused the spirit of the community,
they found it easy to enlarge the circle of their
forces, and to become popular as a peace party by
whatever considerations peace might be preserved.
The annual election of state officers presented
a favourable opportunity to regain the power they
had lost. Identifying themselves with the oppo-
sition, as the governour had identified himself
with the administration of the national govern-
ment, they declared that by electing federal rulers
in Massachusetts, a change would be made in the
national executive, that a settlement would be
then made with England that would give new
energies to commerce, that an unrestrained com-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 377

uierce would give activity to the pursuits of agricul-
ture to all the mechanic arts, to the fisheries and
to all departments of industry, and that the elec-
tion of federalists would deal a death blow to the
standing army, direct taxes, immense loans, dis-
gusting excises, stamp acts and other evils, which
hang like a black cloud on their devoted heads.

.." If the democratic candidates are elected,
nothing on earth can prevent the continuance
for years to come of all the deprivations, distresses,
decay of business and other evils, which now
spread calamity in every quarter of the country,
and which have been hourly increasing ever since
the country has been governed by democratic
rulers."

As preparation for the coming war, an embargo
was decided upon by the committee of foreign re-
lations in the house of representatives of the Unit-
ed States, and notice of the yet immature purpose
communicated by some of the Massachusetts
members of congress by express, which arrived in
Boston on the eve of the annual election. The
news was immediately sent through the state.

In an embargo there was something dishearten-
ing and discouraging. It had the misery of war
without its benefits ; the sacrifice incident to bat-
tle with no chance for the exhilaration of victory.
To the local matters herein before enumerated
and to the connexion between the executive of the
state and the nation, was now added the paralysis of

vol. if. 48

378 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

another embargo upon all enterprise and exertion.
These circumstances of the election called out a
larger vote than had ever before been given in the
commonwealth, and resulted in the success of the
federal candidate by a majority of 1370, out of
104156 votes.

The immense difference between the policy of
him who had been removed, and of him who had
been placed in the chair, had not been overstated
by the friends of the successful chief magistrate.
The former had scarcely been settled again as a
private citizen on his farm, before the war, which
had so long been apprehended, was declared in
form by the constitutional act of the lawful au-
thority. Had he continued in office, he would
have reechoed the declaration in the enlivening
tones of patriotism and pride, inciting the people
of his state by bold and vigorous exertions to
crown the conflict with honour, and animating
their courage by reciting the example of their an-
cestors, displaying the responsibility they held to
the country, and urging them to make their own
names as famous in future annals as were those
who fell at Bunker Hill or conquered on the plains
of Monmouth.

His successor was pleased to announce it in a
manner characteristic of the new party in power.
He ordained a day of public fasting, humiliation
and prayer, because of the great calamity of being
engaged in war against " a nation from which we

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 379

are descended, and which for many generations
has been the bulwark of the religion we profess ;"
He exhorted the people " to ascribe righteousness
to our Maker when he threatens us with the most
severe of all temporal calamities, and to beseech
him to avert the tokens of his anger and to remem-
ber us with his former loving kindness and tender
mercy ;" and " that the inhabitants of this state
may be the objects of his peculiar favour, that he
would take them under his holy protection, and
hide them in his •pavilion until these dangers be
past ; that the chastisements with which he may
think proper to afflict us may serve to humble us
and do us good, and that we may not be like those
who are hardened by his corrections, and who in
the time of their trouble multiply their transgres-
sions against him."

The policy of the ex-governour of Massachu-
setts would have elevated the spirits and animated
the confidence and cherished the hopes and nerv-
ed the courage of his countrymen. If he had
called them round their domestic altars, it would
have been for thanksgiving and not to fast ; he
would have called them there not in humiliation
that calamity had fallen upon them, but in grati-
tude that they possessed the pride of freemen and
the resolution to maintain their liberties ; he would
not have begged to hide them from danger, but
advancing at the first signal of an enemy, asked
of the God of armies " to teach their hands to war
and their fingers to fight."

380 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Little effort is necessary to create terror and
alarm. Dangers that are unseen may be made to
terrify the imagination with illimitable horror.
The cry of sauve qui pent once raised, confusion
and dismay will overwhelm those who raise it.

The desponding and affrighted tone of this first
proclamation of the Massachusetts executive, the
deplorable and abasing sentiment with which in
an act of religious service, purified from all politi-
cal design, the whole people of the commonwealth
were directed to unite as if they were expecting
the dissolution of the globe, and the day of final
retribution, had its effect in restraining the gener-
ous and gallant and lofty spirit of a high minded
and patriotic people, so that aided by other meas-
ures of the peace party their majority, which in
the contest with governour Gerry scarcely exceed-
ed thirteen hundred voters, amounted at the elec-
tion of electors in November to 24023.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 381

CHAPTER XI.

Elected vice-president of the United States Address of congratu~

lation from his friends in Massachusetts.. ....National and state

policy Presides in the senate of the United States The

cabinet His opinion'of the opposition in Massachusetts

Sudden death Funeral Proposed bill to continue his salary

to his widow Itost in the house of representatives His

monument Inscription.

The loss of the chief magistracy of Massachu-
setts was amply compensated to the ex-governour
by the vice-presidency of the United States. The
republican party through the country had beheld
with the highest satisfaction the steadiness of his
attachment to their principles, the fearlessness
with which he had advanced them where they
were least popular, and the aid, which his charac-
ter as a distinguished actor in the war that acquir-
ed independence, would give to the contest which
in their opinion would secure it.

At a meeting held by the members of congress
of that party, on the 8th June 18 12, at Washing-
ton, he was proposed by nearly an unanimous
vote* for the suffrages of the electoral colleges,
and on the first Wednesday of December of that
year, was elected vice-president of the United
States.f It was not possible to have imagined a

* More exactly 74 to 3.

f This election was entirely on party grounds throughout the
United States, excepting only that Mr. Gerry received one vote

382 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

more splendid reward for the aid he had given to
the political principles of his party.

To his friends in Massachusetts the nomination
was particularly pleasing, and the result of the
election was received with great exultation and
delight.

They felt the compliment tbus paid to their ex-
ertions under circumstances calculated greatly to
depress them ; and the honour reflected on them-
selves added new zeal to their efforts in support
of the national administration. " The republican
members of the senate and house of representa-
tives of Massachusetts and other citizens," as-
sembled in Boston, presented to the vice-president
elect an address of congratulation, in the most res-
pectful and affectionate terms, in which they thank
him for the open avowal of his attachment to the
national and state constitutions, while he exercis-
ed the office of chief magistracy of the common-
wealth, and felicitate themselves on the evidence
of the cordiality of their southern fellow citizens,
" in selecting a character so fully comprising the
essential qualities of a republican, and so ade-
quate to maintaining the great principles of the
revolution in their original purity."

The answer of the vice-president acknowledges
the kindness of his friends in Massachusetts, and

in New-Hampshire and two votes in Massachusetts, which were
withheld from Mr. Madison. One of these was given by his old
friend in the revolution, general Heath.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 383

his sensibility to this high proof of the confidence
of the country.

Indeed this election seemed to him as an appeal
from the decree of the state to the tribunal of the
nation, a reversal by their authority of an unjust
decision, and the consequent restoration of his
character to its former elevation.

Since the peace of 1783, he had reluctantly en-
gaged in public life. Every situation he had oc-
cupied was a sacrifice of his own inclinations to
the calls of his country ; but in the present hon-
ourable distinction he felt the highest sensations
of gratified ambition ; and cheerfully assumed the
duties of a station, which in addition to its inhe-
rent dignity, had the cheering appearance of a re-
ward for past labours of patriotism, and a compen-
sation for the consequences of political fidelity.

A statesman, if there be one, who always sails
with the breeze of popularity, knows not the
keenest delights of his eminent profession. The
most exquisite enjoyment of a servant of the peo-
ple is at the moment when they make their ac-
knowledgement for sacrifices submitted to in their
service, and recall him to new and greater honours,
more generous confidence and more conspicuous
station. It is then that the pursuits of civil life
have the animation and excitement of military
glory. In the cabinet and the field, men are
equally exposed to misfortune, but a gallant spirit
lightly feels a wound, which is repaid by the con-
solation and applause of his country.

384 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

On the 4th of March 1813, the oaths of office
were administered to the vice-president at his re-
sidence in Cambridge, Massachusetts, by the judge
of the district court of the United States, and on
24th May succeeding, at a special session of con-
gress, he took his seat as president of the senate.*

On this occasion he addressed that body in a
speech, unusual indeed, if regard be had to pre-
cedent, but consistent enough with the natural
frankness of his character and the earnestness
with which he was ever ready to bring all the re-
sources of his mind and all the influence of his
station to the aid of his political principles.

Instead of the few complimentary phrases which
usually serve the ceremony of introduction, the
vice-president entered into somewhat of a formal
review of the state of the country, bestowing a
panegyric on the exalted personage who filled the
supreme executive, not disguising a reproof of
any who would distract the unity of the public
councils ; and exciting a spirit that should " meet
with ardour an indispensable war."

* On his journey to Washington an incident occurred, which
serves to show the natural amenity of Mr. Gerry's disposition.
He and colonel Pickering were in the same stage coach. Ar-
riving late at Hartford, Connecticut, the house afforded but one
unoccupied bed, which was of course assigned to the vice-presi-
dent, while his fellow passengers were destined to pass the night
on a table or chair. He could not permit a person of the colo-
nel's age to be thus incommoded, but offered 1 1 i in the half the
accommodation appropriated to himself, which was gladly ac-
cepted ; and the old gentlemen passed the night in the same
bed as quietly as if they had always been personal friends.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 385

"The United States," he says, "are now the
enemy of Great Britain. And is it not easy to
foresee that if the war should continue, the Canadas
will be rendered independent of her, and as friends
or allies of the United States, will no longer be
instrumental in exciting an unrelenting and savage
warfare against our extensive and defenceless
borders ? To such inhuman acts in former times
were the Canadians urged by France in her Albion
wars ; and by our colonial aid Great Britain ob-
tained jurisdiction over them. She in turn has
abused this power and has justified the United
States in their efforts to divest her of it. And is
not their energy adequate to the object?

"Will not this be evident by a view of their
effective national and state governments ; of their
great and increasing resources ; of the unconquer-
ed minds and formidable numbers of their citizens;
of their martial spirit ; of their innate attachment
to their rights and liberties, and of their inflexible
determination to preserve them ?

"But if any one still doubts, will he not recollect
that at the commencement of our revolutionary
war the united colonies had not a third of their
present population, nor arms, nor military stores
for a single campaign ; nor specie in their treasu-
ry, nor funds for emitting a paper currency, nor a
national government, nor (excepting in two in-
stances) state governments, nor the knowledge of
naval or military tactics. Will he not also remem-

vol. ii. 49

386 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

bcr that Great Britain was then in the zenith of
her power, that neighbouring nations trembled at
her nod, that the colonies were under her control ;
that her crown officers opposed every mean of re-
sisting her, excited among the colonial govern-
ments over which they presided unfounded jeal-
ousies of each other, and embarrassed every mea-
sure of their union ; that she was loaded with less
than a fifth of her present national debt, that she
was at peace with all the world, and that she is
now at war with a great part of Europe as well as
with the United States. If Great Britain herself
reflects on these things may we not hope she will
relinquish a vain attempt to awe the citizens of the
United States by exaggerated statements of her
military and naval power, by delusive views of our
unprepared state for war, of the great expense of
it, and of the difficulties we are to encounter in
defence of all that is valuable to men ? If instead
of fruitless artifices she will make rational and
equitable arrangements, which the government of
the United States have always been ready to
meet, the two nations will be speedily restored to
their wonted friendship and commerce."

The station of the v ice-president is that which
may enable an ambitious man most adroitly to
conciliate the public favour. Called to express no
opinion unless by a concurrence of circumstances,
which places him in the majority, the odium of
unpopular measures may always be avoided, and

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 3S7

the credit of those, which are successful, easily
secured. But no such cautious and calculating
prudence marked the conduct of Mr. Gerry. There
was no desire on his part to play the double game,
which might win the favour of his adversaries by
sometimes leaving the cause of his friends. He-
deemed the duty imposed upon him by the favour
of his fellow citizens to consist in using; all the
influence of his office, not in advancing his own
personal comfort, but in boldly, strenuously and
invariably aiding the policy of the administration,
and in making all his efforts subsidiary to the ad-
vancement of the great cause, in which they were
engaged.

The situation of the United States, when the
vice-president took the chair of the senate, was
indeed critical. War had been declared with
Great Britain, and time enough had elapsed to
bring home to the knowledge of the people the
condition and consequences of their novel situa-
tion. During that period an election of national
and state officers had been made, and the popu-
larity of the administration policy been put to se-
vere test. The result was a strong support of the
party in power. In the electoral colleges the
president had received 128 out 217 votes. There
was a majority in the house of representatives and
in the senate on the same side.

In the national government therefore the domi-
nant party might look down opposition.

388 LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY.

In most of the southern and western states the
same sentiment prevailed. In New England how-
ever the opposition had an overwhelming force,
the direction of which was assumed by Massachu-
setts. This division of parties by geographical
lines, augured ill for the stability of a government,
whose principal of vitality was yet the subject of
experiment.

The course of the opposite opinions of the two
parties is well illustrated in the message of the
president of the United States, and the remon-
strance of the Massachusetts legislature.

The president says, " The contest in which the
United States are engaged, appeals for its support
to every motive that can animate an uncorrupted
and enlightened people, to the pride of liberty, to
an emulation of the glorious founders of their
independence by a successful vindication of its
violated attributes, to the gratitude and sympathy
which demand security from the most degrading
wrongs of a class of citizens, who have proved
themselves so worthy of the protection of their
country by their heroic zeal in its defence, and
finally to the sacred obligations of transmitting
entire to future generations that precious patri-
mony of national rights and independence, which
is held in trust by the present from the goodness
of divine providence."

The remonstrants, after declaring and urging
their reasons in proof that the " contest" was im-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 389

proper, impolitic and unjust, add, " To the consti-
tuted authorities of our country we have now
stated our opinions and made known our com-
plaints ; opinions, the result of deliberate reflec-
tion, and complaints wrung from us by the tor-
tures of that cruel policy, which has brought the
good people of this commonwealth to the verge
of ruin. A policy, which has annihilated that
commerce so essential to their prosperity, increas-
ed their burthens while it has diminished their
means of support, provided for the establishment
of an immense standing army, dangerous to their
liberties and irreconcilable with the genius of their
constitution ; destroyed their just and constitu-
tional weight in the general government, and by
involving them in a disastrous war, placed in the
power of the enemy the control of the fisheries,
a treasure of more value to the country than all
the territories for which we are contending, and
which furnish the only means of subsistence to
thousands of our citizens ; the great nursery of
our seamen, and the right to which can never be
abandoned by New England."

The contending parties in the country had gone
too far in mutual crimination to veil even under
the forms of courtesy their conviction, real or pre-
tended, of the motives and objects by which they
were severally actuated. Each claimed for its
self the purest patriotism and the highest intel-

390 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ligence ; and each accused the other of premedi-
tated treason, and private aggrandizement.

The causes of the war, say the legislature of
Massachusetts, and more particularly the pretences
for its continuance, " fill the minds of the good
people of this commonwealth with infinite anxiety
and alarm," and the government of the United
States is charged in regard to the information by
them given " with a suppression too serious to be
overlooked or forgiven," — " ambition and not jus-
tice, a lust of conquest and not a defence of en-
dangered rights are among the real causes of per-
severance in our present hostilities," and with the
qualification made by an hypothetical form of ex-
pression, they charge that the war in which they
have been rashly plunged, was undertaken to ap-
pease the resentment, or secure the favour of
France.

By the administration these denunciations were
declared to be the wiles of a faction, eager to re-
gain the power it had lost, feigning a fear that it
did not feel, and ready to spring into the arms of
England, if her friendship would restore them to
their past authority. They asserted further, that
the repeated declarations that the eastern states
had lost their just weight in the confederacy ; that
the provisions of the constitution had failed to se-
cure the objects for which it was adopted ; and
that a power, adverse to their interest had arisen
in the formation of new states, were not merely

LIFE OP ELBRIDGE GERRY. 391

calculated, but intended to prepare for a division,
and the establishment of a more favourable con-
dition of things, a separate peace and alliance
with the public enemy.

These offensive imputations mutually cast with
reckless prodigality, by opposing parties, were ea-
gerly caught by the enemy, equally ready and inter-
ested to have all of them prove true ; though nothing
but the exasperation of political feeling could have
induced any one to suppose they were merited by
those to whom they were applied, or believed by
those who applied them.

But the course of an opposition, which flagrante
bello, could thus weaken the only means that might
bring the war to a favourable termination, is cer-
tainly a matter of surprise. The vice-president
was of the party who believed his country to be
right, and who wished it to be successful wrong
or right, and with this view he lent the whole in-
fluence of his character and station to support the
executive department in the senate and before the
people.

If the advantage of a strenuous cooperation by
the second officer of the nation, is m proportion
to the embarrassment resulting from an adverse
movement, the administration had great reason to
be satisfied with the selection they had made.

During every day of the first special session of
the thirteenth congress, which continued until the
2d of August, the vice-president presided in the

392 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

senate ; and he kept the chair until its actual ad-
journment.

In this there was a departure from the usage
of that body.

In case of the decease or other inability of the
president and vice-president of the United States,
the constitution has provided that congress may
by law designate what officer shall act as presi-
dent, until the disability be removed, or a presi-
dent be elected. And in pursuance of that power,
congress has devolved that contingent but possi-
ble rank on the acting president of the senate, and
if there be none, on the speaker of the house
of representatives.

To place this reversionary right in some mem-
ber of the senate, it had been and yet is usual
for the vice-president of the United States to re-
tire before the close of a session, that a president
pro tempore may be selected by that branch of
the legislature, who, in the course of events,
might in preference to the speaker of the house
of representatives be called to the executive office.

But notwithstanding the administration was
strong in the senate, the choice of a president
pro tempore might, as the vice-president appre-
hended, devolve on an individual not invariably
found among their friends, and he therefore pre-
ferred keeping his seat until the end of the ses-
sion.

The vice-president of the United States is not

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 393

a member of the executive cabinet. The consti-
tution indeed in its theory knows no such organi-
zation ; but convenience, necessity, and at last
custom established one, which is consulted on
great questions by the executive chief; who while
he listens to its advice is yet governed by his
own judgment, and responsible for the measures
of his administration. This cabinet consists of
the secretaries of departments, and the attorney
general of the United States.

The first vice-president considered his exclusion
as a want of proper respect ; the second regarded
it as a necessary incident of his legislative charac-
ter, which could neither require nor permit him to
mingle in executive deliberations.

Mr. Gerry was not called to the regular meet-
ings of the cabinet, but his advice and council
were solicited, and most confidentially and freely
given to the distinguished statesman on whom
then devolved a weight of responsibility, and an
anxiety of mind greater than at any other period
crowded the chief magistrate of the nation.

The opposition in the eastern states to all
the measures of the national administration, the
strength with which this opposition bore upon
every effort for a vigorous prosecution of the war ;
the obstacles it presented to the raising of supplies,
either of money or men ; and more than all, doubts
and apprehensions as to the extent of an under-
standing, which its leaders were suspected of main-

VOL. II. 50

394 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

taining with the public enemy, were calculated to
disturb the government, and render most unhappy
the public functionaries, whom the majority of
their fellow citizens expected fearlessly to meet
the responsibility of the times.

The long embargo, which preceded the war of
1812, had been changed into a system of nonin-
tercourse, partly on the persuasion confidentially
inculcated by a distinguished citizen of Massachu-
setts, that the former measure would be resisted
by force.

The intercourse of a British political mission-
ary with the leaders of the federal party in New
England had been watched with the same jealous
but futile expectation that it would present a
developement of unlawful designs, and the sub-
sequent more alarming because more practicable
evils put in the way of a claim for the military
aid of New England was naturally enough as-
signed to the same anti-patriotic propensities.

Ardent as were the feelings, and strong as have
been seen to be the political and party attach-
ments of the vice-president, he had learned better
and judged more truly the sentiments of his coun-
trymen. Accused as he has been of strong an-
tipathies, and prejudice and animosity to the partyr
which had opposed his own administration of the
state government by every measure of personal
and public hostility, he yet was able to examine
more candidly, and was willing to express more
favourably his construction of their conduct.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 395

In the many and anxious deliberations of the
eabinet as to the measures of New England
policy, and the extent of the opposition of the
federal leaders to the government of the United
States, it was known that the vice-president had
entirely acquitted them of all traitorous design.
He believed, and he did not hesitate to express
his conviction, that all their efforts, unwise and
ill timed, and dangerous and unfortunate as he
considered them to be, were the efforts of a party
to regain political power, and not indications of
hostility to the government, or a desire either to
calculate the value of the union or to place any
part of it within the domination of Great Britain.
The effect of this persuasion, and the willingness
with which the vice-president announced it, had
its proper weight in softening some of the mea-
sures, which to a party believed to be in hos-
tility to the government and constitution of the
country, the administrators of that government
under the constitution might have been bound to

displa}r.

Condescension might however, as he thought,
be carried too far, and he felt obliged on one oc-
casion at least to restrain it.

The exceeding embarrassment which the na-
tional administration experienced by the construc-
tion which the governour of Massachusetts, en-
couraged by the official opinion of the judiciary of
his state, put on the relative power of the state

396 LIFE OF ELB RIDGE GERRY.

and the nation over the militia of a state, induced
the executive of the United States to try every
possible measure to change it.

As a plan that might reconcile conflicting opin-
ions, it was proposed that the governour of Massa-
chusetts should be commissioned a major-general
in the army of the United States ; and it was
supposed therefore, that while in the former capa-
city he could call out the militia of his state, he
would be bound in the other to obey the national
executive. The good effect of such a plan had
been experienced, particularly in New- York. The
decided opposition it met with from the vice-pre-
sident induced the government to give up the
scheme in Massachusetts.

Among the most fatiguing labours that devolved
on the vice-president of the United States, was
the necessity of attending to a vast mass of cor-
respondence, which overwhelmed him from all
parts of the country.

The right of a private citizen to address the
public functionaries may not be disputed ; but
when that right is exercised in its extreme, the
inability of the public agents to encounter it ad-
mits not of doubt. In those offices where clerks
are employed, a great part of this labour may de-
volve on them, but the vice-president has neither
clerk nor secretary, and the reading even without
answering the numberless epistles of his fellow
citizens, was enough to break down a constitution
of iron.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 397

Probably at that period there was more impo-
sition in this respect than at other times. The
war gave rise to numerous classes of office, and to
local interests of great extent and variety. It
seemed to be taken for granted, by each indivi-
dual applicant for notice, that if he could get the
vice-president's recommendation he was sure of
success, and to be forgotten that every other citi-
zen had the same right with himself.

Until the extent of this evil became so great
that it was physically impossible to meet it, the
courtesy of the vice-president extended to the an-
swering of his numerous correspondents ; and
when this labour became impossible, it was often
his misfortune to find that the omission was cause
of offence.

The vice-president continued to give his strenu-
ous support to the administration, and his aid to a
vigorous conducting of the war during the second
session of the thirteenth congress. In the new
situation in which he was placed his former ac-
quaintance with the financial affairs of the country,
and the experience he had in the congress of the
revolution and that of the early period of the exist-
ing government was of advantage to himself and
his associates. As ex officio a commissioner of the
sinking fund, and presiding at that board, the
duties of the vice-president, though secluded in a
great measure from the public eye, are not of the
less importance or value. Amid all the pressure

398 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

of the war, with all the embarrassments, which
attended the procuring of the means for its ener-
getic prosecution, and the raising by successive
loans the ample funds, which it required, the
policy of the administration never lost sight of the
grand object of repayment, or failed to see through
the dark clouds, which hung around them, that
bright star of promise, which foretold the future
greatness of their country. The debt, which it
was necessary to incur, they did not hesitate fear-
lessly to contract ; but at the same time the funds,
which were afterwards to discharge it, they were
equally solicitous to preserve. Hence in all their
laws for a loan, provision is made for a sinking
fund, and the administration of this fund under
commissioners was carefully secured by the vice-
president's concurrence.

He had taken his seat in the senate, at the third
session, and presided during the whole of a long
debate on the 22d of November 1814, with his usual
spirit, and in the enjoyment of accustomed health.
On returning to his lodgings he complained of
slight indisposition, but amused himself through
the evening in arranging the letters of the day,
and in a cheerful conversation with the inmates of
the house.

There has been thought to be sometimes a pre-
monition of approaching dissolution, even when
the corporeal frame discloses no appearance of the
crisis. Mr. Gerry's discourse was of his family in

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 390

Massachusetts ; and taking from his bosom a
miniature, which was always suspended round his
neck when the original was absent, and had hither-
to, with a peculiar delicacy of feeling, been his
own personal secret, he spoke of it with an in-
terest which show that although the surpassing
beauty delineated in the picture might have first
charmed the imagination, more enduring qualities
had left the impress of affection on his heart.*

He rested well through the night, and break-
fasted as usual with the family on the morning of
the 23d, and although he spoke of some vague in-
dications of disease, he did not consider them
sufficient to prevent his taking his seat in the
senate, at the hour to which that body was
adjourned. The carriage coming to carry him to
the capital rather earlier than usual, he directed
the coachman to stop on his way there at the
office of the registry of the treasury, at which he
had some business that required his attention.
This being arranged he returned to his carriage,
and had proceeded but a short distance, when a
sudden extravasation of blood took place upon the
lungs and terminated his life within twenty min-

* On the decease of the vice-president this miniature could
not be found. Several mouths afterwards it was accidentally
discovered by one of his family, stripped of its plain gold setting,
and exposed for sale in one of the shops of the district, as a
fancy piece of exquisite design. How it came there was never
ascertained.

400 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

utes, almost without a struggle and apparently
without pain.

On the news of his death congress appointed a
committee " to report measures proper to manifest
the public respect for the memory of the deceased,
and expressive of the deep regret of the congress
of the United States for the loss of a citizen so
highly respected and revered."

Under the charge of this committee his remains,
attended the next day by the members of the ex-
ecutive government and both branches of the le-
gislature, were deposited in the burying ground of
the city of Washington, by the side of those
illustrious men, who had died there in the service
of their country.

A widow, three sons and six daughters sur-
vived him.

Like most of his eminent compatriots, Mr.
Gerry left to his family his example only and his
fame.

A political opponent and former rival for the
chair of Massachusetts, then member of the senate
from that state, with a nobleness of soul, which
buries with the ashes of its enemy all feelings of
animosity or revenge, recognising as a patriot the
services of the departed statesman, and sympathiz-
ing as a man in the distress of an agonized family,
introduced a bill " for paying to the widow of the
late vice-president the salary, which would have

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 401

become due, had he lived to complete his term of
office."

This bill passed the senate, but was lost in the
house. An objection was there taken, in which
many friends of the late vice-president felt them-
selves reluctantly bound to concur, that it would
become a precedent for the granting of pensions
in the civil departments of the country.

One individual, however, was found to take
other ground. Neither the services of patriotism,
nor the claims of widowhood and orphanage could
disarm his ancient animosity, or prevent him, over
the green grave of his opponent, from assailing his
memory in the same terms of vituperation, which
had marked the past period of political warfare.*

But what was then wanting in kindness to the
family of the vice-president was aftewards made
up to them in consolation, by the respect which
congress paid to his memory.

* Although the government of the United States could not
directly aid the destitute family of the vice-president, they were
disposed to consider their claims with great attention ; and the
eminent citizen, who was then the chief executive magistrate,
appointed the eldest son of the deceased to a place in the
collection of the revenue, that it should enable him to support
the family thus unexpectedly thrown upon his charge ; a duty
which it is proper to say is still performed with filial assiduity,
while the office bestowed for so worthy a purpose has been filled
to general acceptation, and with unimpeached fidelity. The
two other sons were soon after appointed to the navy of the
United States, in which they continue honoured and esteemed as
ornaments of their profession.

VOL. II. 51

402 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

On the 3d March 1823, a law was passed to
erect a monument over his tomb ; an appropriation
was at the same time made to defray the expense,
and in the course of the summer this honourable
testimonial to his character was placed over his
remains.

The monument thus erected by order of con-
gress is of pure white marble, from the native
state of the eminent citizen whose ashes it pro-
tects. The pedestal is pyramidal. On the cor-
ners is a fillet, which lies in a scotia cut out of
the angle. A rich and massy leaf covers each
extremity of the fillet, a second leaf falls off at
the bottom, spreading itself over the angle of the
base mouldings. The ornaments of the frieze
under the cornice, are made up of foliage modelled
from nature, consisting of parsley, tulips, and
amaranthus. Upon the parapet stand eight ballus-
ters enriched with foliage supporting the soffit and
blocks. The urn resembles in form a Grecian
vase with a bold and elegant outline, and is en-
riched with various leaves, among which the oak
and acanthus are most prominent. A towering
flame crowns the whole.

The monument bears the following inscription :

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 403

2Tne SFomfe

OF

ELBRIDGE GERRY,

VICE-PRESIDENT

OF THE
UNITED STATES,

WHO DIED SUDDENLY IN THIS CITY,

NOVEMBER 23, 1814,

ON HIS WAY TO THE CAPITOL

AS

President of the Senate.

AGED 70 YEARS.

THUS FULFILLING

HIS OWN MEMORABLE INJUNCTION,

IT IS THE DUTY OF EVERY MAN

THOUGH HE MAY HAVE BUT ONE DAY TO LIVE

TO DEVOTE THAT DAY

TO THE GOOD OF HIS COUNTRY.

404 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

On the reverse is inscribed :

ERECTED BY ORDER

OF THE

CONGRESS

OF THE

UNITED STATES.

It has thus happened that the first, and as jet
the only monument, which by virtue of a law of
the United States, has been erected for a native
citizen at the national expense, is placed over
the earthly remains of the patriot statesman and
christian, whose life is now traced to its close.

APPENDIX A.

(Page 326.)

SPEECH OF GOVERNOUR GERRY.

Reipublice literariaa, per totam orbem, artium et scientia-
rum luminari magno, vos-ipsos amicos et fautores manifesti ;
amicissime vice-gubernatoi', vir honoratissime et clarissime,
consiliarii, spectatissimi fidissimique, curatores et senatores
aeademici, celeberrimi et generosissimi. Vir illustrissime,
iiuper prseses reipublicce Americana?, Elogio omni dignissime,
professores, tutores, et alii, functionibus academicis eruditis-
simi, pastores religiosi, semper venerandi, juventutes academiaa
carissimi, nunc spes, mox patrias laureati, cuj usque ordinis audi-
tores, literati et honorandi. Vos omnes, pariter amicus, saluto.

Hujusce diei munus est, hanc sedem consecratam supplere.
Nos monet viri praestantissimi et pii cujus mors vacuum fecit.
Amicula sua feralia lachrymis abundanter roravimus, et exe-
quias reverentia celebravimus. Valedecimus. Sua fama elogi-
um alte volat, et pectoribus nostris semper recordabitur.

Te, domine reverende, universitatis summi gubernatores liber-
issime supplere hanc sedem elegerunt. Virum qusesiverunt
religione, probitate, Uteris et honore ornatum; atque benevo-
lentia, humanitate, affectionibusque generosissimis abundantem ;
confidenter credunt, quod hujus electionis sapientiam evinces.
Tu quasi sol corruscans, hacce systemate literata, radiis geniali-
bus suas plantas florentes fovebis, et illis novas vires praebebis,
donee fructus cojjiosos edent, civitates Dei Adorabilis, alere, de-
lectare et ornare.

Et nunc auctoritate tnunitus, trado tibi domine, et munus
est mihi jucundissimum, has vestes officiales, coronis victorum
potentium, honorabiliores, chartam, tabulas publicas, sigillum
et claves ; symbola asque ac oflicii testimonia. Omnibus juri-
bus, auctoritatibus, potestatibus et previligiis Prassidis Uni-
versitatis te munio. Hac sede consecrata te stabilio, et Collegii
Harvardiani Preesidem te annuncio ; quo nomine primo te ex
animo saluto. In te omnium oculi conjiciuntur. Tu eris, quasi
civitas in monte sita, conspicuus: et sic luceat vestra lux
apud hoscse juvenes, ut vestra facta videntes nostrum patrem qui
est in ccelo adorent.

406 APPENDIX.

RESPONSUM PRjESIDIS.

Illustrissimt Domine, Gubernator.

Quanta solicitudine meipsum hujus sellse Academical digni-
tate ornatum sentio, verbis exsequi non possum, neque dicere
oportet. Tu, domine, qui onus muneris jam suscepti recte per-
pendisti, bene intelligis, atque omnes qui secum cogitant quo loco
sum, intellecturi, quse curse animum raeura exercent.

Inter omnes constat quo affectu, quanto studio, quibus preci-
bus et lachrymis hujusce societatis fundamenta posuerunt nostri
majores ; et quam multi, olim et nuper, opes, consilia, labores
ei libere impenderunt.

Mihi imperito, imparatoque curationem institution^ tarn curae,
tarn antiquse mandatam esse video. Ita numini divino placuet.

Recte mihi indicasti domine, quod homines a me juste expec-
tent, et verbis benignis mihi profecto animum addidisti. Dubi-
tare non possum quin tu, Harvardise alumnus et semper ami-
cus ; tu, publicis, privatisque virtutibus prsestans, et viros inter
claros, qui libertatem Americanam ancipitem feliciter asserere
coeperunt, semper nominandus; quin tu, vir excellentissime, in
rebus agendis diu versatus, et nunc in summo dignitatis gradu
constitutus, mihi pro merito lubenter sublevare praesto fueris ;
etiamque confido, caeteros in collegii rebus occupatos, quod ad
illos attinet, adjumento mihi semper adfuturos.

Quod superest, deum optimum maximum domini nostri Jesu
Christi Deum et Patrem veneremur, et precemur ut nobis cur-
sum rectum ostendat, atque huncdiem tarn serium quam festum,
nostra? Academicae totique reipublica3 et ecclesiae pro benevo-
lentiae sua faustum atque felicem evadere sinat.

REPLICATIO GUBERNATORIS.

Restat Domine, hac solemnitate summa, nomine Gubernato-
rum Universitatis summorum tibi gratulari, benedictionem et
gratiam divinam tibi obsecrare. In vestraaemulatione, sedulitate,
et fidelitate officiali suam confidentiam exprimere ; te juvare
et sustinere in hoc munere honorabili, suam mentem et decisio-
nem declarare ; denique, quod juventutes harvardiani, obedien-
tiam, affectioncm, et reverentiam tibi semper manifcstabunt, fide
confirmare.

APPENDIX B.

(Page 343.)

Boston, Council Chamber, December 17, 1811.

The governour having on the 14th of August last, requested
the opinion of the council on the following points, viz. " who of
the sheriffs and clerks of the judicial courts ought to be super-
seded as a measure requisite to promote the public welfare ;" and
the council on the 16th of the same month, having expressed their
opinion, that the sheriffs of twelve, and the clerks of fifteen coun-
ties, named by the council should be superseded, have been si-
lent, in regard to the sheriff and clerk of the county of Suffolk,
excepting some remarks, relative to the postponement of the
nomination of the latter. The sheriff of Suffolk, being a gentle-
man of amiable manners, correct morals, and in what relates to
himself of good conduct in his office, and being approved in other
respects by many persons in that county friendly to the national
and state governments, but being at the same time very obnox-
ious to a number of others, equally friendly to government, is
under circumstances very embarrassing to the governour. The
unpopularity of this sheriff, it is conceived arises from the same
cause as that of the sheriff of Essex ; a cause, which rendered
indispensable the preference to him of another candidate. The
governour alludes to the misconduct of some deputies of both
sheriffs ; and in particular to a deputy of Suffolk, against whom
Henry Warren, Esq. of Plymouth has exhibited the complaint,
contained in the document No. 1. In the nomination of officers,
the candidate who has appeared to unite in the greatest degree,
the approbation of the people, and who in every other respect,
has had equal pretensions, has had the preference. If in this
instance, the incumbent should be nominated, it is manifest, that
the measure would produce great uneasiness on the part of many
firm friends of government. The proceedings of these are con-
tained in the document No. 2. Thus circumstanced the gover-
nour requests the opinion of the council, whether the nomination
and appointment of Col. Samuel Bradford, to the office of sheriff
for Suffolk, will promote the public welfare, in an equal degree
with one of the other candidates for this office ? Major Gibbs,

403 APPENDIX.

whose pretensions are contained in two papers, numbered 3, and
Capt. Amos Binney, mentioned in the document No. 2, are can-
didates. The opinions on this subject of the members of the
council respectively, are requested in writing.

E. Gerry.

Council Chamber, January 15, 1812.
His excellency the governour in a communication of the 17th
of December last having requested the opinion of the council
respecting the sheriff of the county of Suffolk, and in that com-
munication having referred to a former one made the 14th of
August last, in which he requested the opinion of the council,
" who of the sheriffs and clerks of the judicial courts, ought to be
superseded as a measure requisite to promote the public wel-
fare :" The council in a communication made to his excellency
the lfith of the same month of August, expressed their opinion that
the sheriffs of twelve counties therein named ought to be supersed-
ed, and as the council understood the governour to request their
opinion respecting all the sheriffs, and as it had become the duty
of the executive to appoint sheriffs in all the counties, the coun-
cil did intend to express their opinion respecting all of them, and
to be understood to be in favour of a reappointment of all those
whom they had not designated as proper to be superseded as a
measure requisite to promote the public welfare. On a revision
of the subject as it respects the several sheriffs the council see no
sufficient cause to reverse their opinion, and agreeing with his
excellency that "the sheriff of Suffolk" is "a gentleman of
amiable manners, correct morals, and in what relates to himself
of good conduct in his office, and being approved in other
respects by many persons in that county friendly to government"
are (as on the former occasion) unanimously of opinion that the
public welfare does not require that he should be superseded.
Wm. Gray, Samuel Fowler,

Marshall Spring, Aa. Hill,

M. Kinsley, Thomas B. Adams.

THE END,

Ill

ffi:

in

m

nr"1

-A '1

i vJ4.*ikv\

%9
