Illustrations xxvii was appointed secretary of state for foreign affairs by Louis XVI upon his ascension to the throne in 1774. Vergennes felt keenly France’s humiliation during the Seven Years’ War, and made the recovery of French power and prestige at Britain’s expense the cornerstone of French foreign policy. The revolt of Britain’s Ameri can colonies in 1775 therefore presented a welcome opportunity, and after funneling secret aid to the Americans for over a year he finally consented to a Franco-American alliance in February 1778. He subsequently worked to draw Spain and the Netherlands into the conflict with Britain and encouraged the neutral powers in forming a League of Armed Neutrality to undercut British naval power. He also succeeded in having the American plenipotentiaries instructed to accept his leadership in future peace negotiations, while maintaining cordial relations with Benjamin Franklin, but he acquiesced when the commissioners failed to keep him informed of their talks during preliminary negotiations in 1782 when it ap peared that they had remained true to their pledge not to accept a separate peace. Oil on canvas, artist unidentified. Musee National du Chateau ae Versailles. Samuel Osgood $47 Osgood (1747-1813) was born in Andover, Mass., was educated at Harvard College, and briefly operated a store with a brother before entering public life. He was a member of several revolutionary committees, conventions, and congresses in 1774-75, became a bri gade major and aide-de-camp to Gen. Artemas Ward, 1775-76, and resigned from the army in 1776 to represent Andover in the Massa chusetts House of Representatives, to which he was reelected in 1779 and 1780. Osgood was also a member of the Massachusetts constitutional convention of 1779, was elected to the first Senate chosen under the state’s new constitution, and was elected to Con gress in 1781 for the first of three consecutive terms. In Phila delphia Osgood became especially interested in fiscal issues, worked to curtail Continental expenses even at the risk of antagonizing military friends, and succeeded in getting himself elected to the board of directors of the Bank of North America. He also became increasingly suspicious of the power of the southern states and o the threat to republican principles posed by the financial power of Philadelphia and Robert Morris, and was appointed a treasury com missioner in 1784 when the superintendent of finance resigned and the treasury was placed in commission. When Congress moved to New York in 1785, Osgood quickly developed new ties and interests, married the widow of a wealthy Quaker merchant, and was ap pointed postmaster general by President Washington in 1789. He chose to resign the position in 1791 when the government moved to Philadelphia, however, and was subsequently elected to the New
