September 4, 1781 9 Mr. 2 is happy in having at Length two Letters from you tho he is not without some little Chagrin at the Degrees of Disappoint ment which the Wheel of Fortune has turned up. Sperat meliora. Yesterday yr. Favor of Aug. 21 reached me. I have written to Mr. Gibson. 3 His Answer must reach you by a private Hand. We are all smiling here and in not a little joyous Bustle—the Troops of our good Ally encamped on the Commons—Col Laurens giving a very favorable Account of his proceedings in France and bringing solid Proofs to his narrative—the Log Book of a Vessel produced this afternoon which puts our military movements nearly beyond the Point of Risque. I will be more particular on all Heads by the first private Conveyance. Yr. obliged Friend, JL RC (MHi: Gerry-Knight Collection). 1 Although Lovell wrote “Aug. 4,” the contents of the letter clearly indicate that it was written on September 4. 2 Not identified. 3 Not found. Thomas McKean to Arthur Lee Si r> Philadelphia. September 4th. 1781. I had the pleasure of receiving your favor of the 26th of last month yesterday, and am very sorry for the distresses of Virginia, tho’ the ardour and unanimity of the people promise that they will not long continue. Long ere this I flattered myself that I should have heard of the Count de Grasse and Count de Barras having entered the Chesepeake with thirty-four ships of the line, and several frigates, bomb-ketches & other armed vessels. They sailed for that Bay long ago, with a considerable body of land forces, and a company of sappers and miners, having every apparatus on board for attacking fortifications. This you may depend upon. General Washington, with the whole French Army, and a large detachment of Americans are in full march for your relief; the last division passed thro’ this city to day. Colo. Laurens came to town yesterday from Boston, where he arrived in the French frigate Resolution, 1 accompanied with two others loaded with arms, ammunition & cloathing, on the 25th of August. Besides these important supplies, all for the United States, he has brought with him a large sum in specie, almost equal to our wishes. The Court of France have really exerted themselves far beyond any thing done heretofore, and have given full proof how much they have our Independance at heart. In a few weeks more, I
