14 September 4, 1781 Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia 4th Sepr. 1781 General Washington & General Rochambeau are now in this city, and the French Army pass’d through the city yesterday, on their way to Virginia. Col. John Lawrence also arrived in Town Yesterday. It is about 80 days Since he left France, he was very expeditious & Successful in accomplishing the business with which he was charged. He has obtained a Sum of money, and a considerable quantity of clothing for the Army, and military Stores, among which are about 13,000 Muskets, part of which is arrived. He brings No News respecting the politics of Europe. The latest accounts from General Green are contained in his Letter of the 26th of July, published in this day’s paper, which is Enclosed. 1 The Superintendant of Finance is mak ing arrangements to Save expence, The Board of Admiralty & the Navy Boards are to be abolished, and the remains of the Navy is to be managed by an Agent, with a Salary of 1500 dollars per annum, who is allowed one Clerk with a Salary of 500 dollars. The Board of Treasury & Chambers of Accounts are also to be abolished, And a Controller & a Suitable number of Auditors are to be appointed to liquidate the public Accounts. 2 The Supply of provisions is to be by Contract, as soon as matters can be prepared for it. The Court of France are friendly to our cause and willing to afford us what aids they can, but think we might do more toward carrying on the War from our own resources, without being so dependant for money on France. Mr. Hillegas informs me that he has some Bills of Exchange to Send to the Loan office in Connecticut for payment of Interest. I hope Mr. Brown will be Sent on Soon, & bring Some Money for me. A Sum less than fifty pounds will not be Sufficient to pay my expence here and to enable me to return home. It is necessary that one or more Delegates Should come imme diately, there are but Eight of the States represented. ’Tis probable that Delegates will arrive Soon from the State of Vermont. I have Enclosed Several of the latest News Papers but they dont contain much News. I have the honor to be, with the greatest Respect, Your Excel lency’s Most Obedient & Most humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 Sherman enclosed a copy of the Pennsylvania Packet of September 4 containing extracts from Gen. Nathanael Greene’s letter, which had been read in Congress on September 3 and referred to the committee of intelligence. JCC, 21:929. 2 For the abolition of the board of admiralty and the navy boards and the reorga-
