24 September 8, 1781 States. Your letter to the President of Congress, with Governor Trumbull’s letter and the answer from your Excellency were read by the Secretary and committed to a special Committee who have not yet reported. I had some days before moved for a special Committee to report specially on the papers and other information given rela tive to the commissions issued by Governor Trumbull. Mr. Sherman, the only member now here from Connecticut urged that it might be delayed till the Gov’r could be heard from, as he was satisfied the Commissions were called in and the plundering would cease; some other States supported him and the motion was lost. I conclude the Committee do not report expecting a letter from Gov’r Trumbull to Congress by the next post on the subject. You may rest assured that we shall not be inattentive to a matter in which the State is so greatly interested. 2 Your construction of the resolutions as to the time of our present delegation is agreeable to my former opinion, tho’ contrary to Mr. Duane’s. At least he much doubted of the propriety of our staying longer than the 12 of Sept. General Scott has wrote to us, advising by all means not to stay longer than the 12th of Sept, (this need not be mentioned): if Mr. Duane is of my opinion, which I believe he will be, we shall continue here as long as our money will hold out, and longer we cannot. ’Tis probable some time about the first of next month, it may be prudent for us to take our departure; if we can stay longer we shall. 3 Colo. Hay has necessarily been detained here longer than he would have been, on account of the movement of the Army. Much of the time of this week having been taken up by Congress in settling etiquettes and in paying and receiving compliments from the Gen eral Officers and Army. Count de Rochambeau ordered his whole Army to march by the City Hall and to salute Congress as a crowned head, and the President as the first prince of the blood. How do you think friend Thomas felt? 4 It has been with some difficulty that we have been able to procure the enclosed resolution 5 (which is not certified by the Secretary, the minutes not having been read since its passing) which is not so full and agreeable to our wishes as we intended. The Quarter Master has his friends, and those that justify him, tho’ few in number. Eight States only are represented. One was divided, one voted against, whereby some other parts of the report was lost; to wit, that the certificates given to the State agent shall be credited to the quota of supplies required of the said State. This part being reconsidered was referred to the financier, where ’tis likely it will remain dormant till the account is settled. If we can get the certificates with the quantity of forage ascertained, we can easily have it in our power to make the discompt. By Colo. Hay I send you a little book with the Constitutions of the several States which he informed me you wanted; 6 and I shall by the first opportunity send
