September 8, 1781 25 you the Acts of Congress as far as are printed (for want. . . , 7 {of our) great Resourses of our Revenue. Yesterday at one Stroke 30,000 Thousand Dollars specie per annum was [s]truck of[f| from our Expenditures by dissolving the Board of Admiralty, the Honor able Navy Board at Boston, Secretaries, Agents, Clerks, House Rents &c, &c. The whole Business being transfered to the financeer Mr Morris, untill an agent of Marine Shall be appointed. A Secre tary or Minister of War will soon be appointed which will make a great saving in that Department. We were fully of Opinion & I believe Colo. Hay concurred with us that it would at present answer no purpose to attempt any New regulations on the old System for settling the Quarter Master & Commissaries Accounts in our State, as the financeer has given in to Congress a General Plan for settling all Accounts by which the present Board of Treasury, Chambers of Accounts, extra Chambers, Auditors &c will be broke up and a New Arrangement made. This Plan has been under consideration some Days & some Parts of it are passed & I expect it will soon be finished. So far as I am acquainted with the public Accounts I have reason to believe the System will not work when put in practice and it is nearly as expensive as the former one. I beleive however it is best to pass it or any thing else that the Business may be set about and Defects in the System may hereafter be remiedyed as they may appear to the Financeer. If the present proposed System will not work he must Try till he can get one that will. It is very evident that unless the public Accounts are soon settled, or unless the People are convinced they will soon be settled, little or no Taxes or Supplies will hereafter be recived from the States as at present each State claims to have done more than its Proportion, and offer that as an Excuse, even Pensylvania Claims that Merrit. By Some late Accounts from Europe which many suppose Au- thentick, the Empress of Russia is playing with Holland offering in Excuse for her not taking a part in Support of the Conventions of the Armed Neutrality, that she will give her mediations & that after a peace takes Place Holland will Enjoy all the advantages of it. She excuses herself further ’tis said, by saying that the Declaration of war on the part of Great Brittain was prior to the Actual signing by the United States {of Holland}. She has banished one of her Minis ters who was greatly in favour of assisting the Neutrality against Great Brittain. We expect soon to hear from Mr Adams when likely we shall have a true & particular Account. It is so long since Mr Laurens left France, (near three Months) that he has nothing new. I am sr with the greatest esteem & respect Your Excellencies most obedt Servt. Ezra LHommedieu Tr (MH-H: Sparks Collection). RC (NHi: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Only the last three pages of the RC have been found.
