September 9, 1781 29 to them we shall execute with great Pleasure as far as may be practicable. 7 We congratulate your Excellency on the Arrival of Count De Grasse in the Chesepeake with 28 Ships of the Line he has landed from his Fleet 5000 Troops including 1000 Marines. General Wash ington is now at the Head of a formidable Army and Lord Corn wallis so effectually circumscribed by Sea and Land that it is out of his Power to retreat. There is no Doubt but he will make as obstinate a Defence as about 5000 Troops will enable him; but his Lordship seems once more to be placed in Circumstances from which Noth ing but the sudden Approach of a superior naval Armament can extricate him. We speak with Submission to divine Providence. For the Particulars of this and other Intelligence your Excellency will be pleased to be referred to the Collection of News Papers enclosed. Since our Arrival here the Plan for choosing an Agent instead of a Secretary of Marine has been adopted, but the Number of our Ships still decreasing by a recent Loss and being reduced to two we have transferred the Business at present to the Financier. The Treasury Board will be dissolved and a Plan more simple and expeditious instituted, it is now forming into an Ordinance the Substance hav ing already been agreed to. Col. Laurence our special Minister to the Court of Versailles is returned and has executed his Mission with great Propriety and Success, it has been the Means of enabling us among other good Things to advance the New York Line, Offi cers and Men a Month’s Pay in Specie. Yesterday they received it at the Head of Elk, we suffered the greatest Anxiety ’till this Object was accomplished, for the Discontent of the Corps was great and just as well among the Officers as Soldiers. We have the Honour to be with the utmost Respect, Dear Sir, your Excellency’s most Obt. hble Serv, Jas Duane Ezra L’Hommedieu Tr (N: Legislative Papers). In a clerical hand. 1 A transcript of Clinton’s August 25 letter to the New York delegates is in the Legislative Papers, N; his August 25 letter to President McKean is in PCC, item 67, 2:422-23 and Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 7:251-52; and his August 26 and 27 letters to the New York delegates are at ibid., 7:259—61. 2 In his August 25 letter to the delegates, Clinton had complained that in accepting Vermont independence Congress was merely acting out of “political Expediency" and he went on to advise that Congress be reminded “that the Business is conducting in an improper Train, that nothing will be effectual unless it is hereafter confirmed by us, and . . . that if they expect to obtain our Confirmation, Congress ought to guarranty to us every other Boundary as we now Claim and take every possible Method for securing the Property of Individuals in the contested District.” 3 For the background of this issue, see Thomas McKean to Clinton, August 8, note 1; and Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, August 14, 1781, note 1'. In response to Governor Clinton’s complaints, the matter had recently been referred to committee for reconsideration, but no action was ever taken on the committees
