30 September 9, 1781 subsequent recommendation that “no goods or effects belonging to the Citizens of any of these United States within the possession of the enemy ... be deemed legal prize in any Court within the United States” unless captured in pursuance of a special commission granted by Congress. JCC, 21:931, 1046. 4 Clinton had advised the delegates in his August 25 letter, that he believed their appointment as delegates extended to October 15. See also James Duane to Clinton, August 14, 1781, note 5. 5 See Ezra L’Hommedieu to Clinton, September 7, 1781, note. 6 In his August 27 letter, Clinton had asked the delegates to seek the promotion of Col. Goose Van Schaick to brigadier general—an assignment they could not fulfill. Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 7:260-61. 7 Clinton had asked the delegates in August 22 and 26 letters to seek military appointments for doctors Stephen McCrea and Joseph Young. They succeeded in the case of Young, who was promoted to Continental army physician and surgeon on September 20, but not in the case of McCrea. See JCC, 21:958, 980-81, 1016. James Lovell to Abgail Adams Sep 10. 1781 The Post gives me your Strictures of Aug. 21. My Esteem of Portia has prevented any Distinction in my Mind between her Professions of Friendship and the real Existence of it in her Bosom, nor have I mistaken the Emanations of it under any of its different Appear ances of Criticism, Rhodomontade, Satire or religious Charity. She must have seen this, if she had chosen to have let me speak of Clarinda (I believe it was) without wresting the Application to her self, and imagining I hesitated to trust my dearest Friend to con verse with Portia individually. I “charitably hope” that it was such misapplication which occasioned the Retort of a most confidential Hint of the Ubiquity of “trifling & censorious Persons.” I did not before conceive that they had a Residence only in Massachusetts. Considering the true Nature of Mankind, We seem not calculated to introduce ever and never into the promisory Parts of our Inter course here, otherwise I would subscribe to your Sentiment “nor will an affectionate Husband ever wound it.” He will not willingly or of choice', but it seems he may do it inadvertently or thro necessity, by putting up at one Tavron rather than another; or by not quarelling and disputing with the Landlady while he knows himself to be better accommodated than he could be at that other; and while the Fa tigues & Vexations of the Business he is persuing lead him to think he is entitled to a convenient Resting Place, to good Diet, and kind Attendance in Case of Sickness. Two or three Pair of Stairs are a Benefit to a young sedentary Person. Gen. Ward was too old for such [...]. My [ . . . ] bring many Strangers to transact Business, who must either mount to me or I must descend to them; which latter I should be obliged to practice, if I was lodged as many others are; at the same Time that I should not have their Rogue Theif Lyar
