September 11, 1781 31 Drunkard of a Servant to call me perpetually to the Stair-Dance. Indeed, Madam I do not despise the Opinion of the World. But, your Philosopher, 1 possitively, shall not be my Pattern in the present Case. He would have lived on Sour Crout rather than stand the Charge of Luxery for eating Chicken, and would have lodged in a Pig’s Stye sooner than in the most commodious Chamber in Genl. Mifflin’s City-Mansion if it could be reported that his Landlady here had not Parchment Features of Fourscore. I have been more particu lar and lengthy on that first Hint in your Letter because of the real Plausibility involved in it. And I promise to be so “circumspect” as not to miss any Opportunity of bettering myself; but surely, my very amiable Monitrix, that is the only laudable End of Circumspection. I wish I could make this Half Sheet welcome by adding Some thing to what I have already sent respecting our Friends in Hol land; 2 I am watchful to find it. In the mean Time permit me to think I am with great Esteem, Your humb. Servant JL RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 That is, John Adams. 2 John and John Quincy Adams. Thomas McKean to Joseph Reed Sir, Philadelphia Septemr. 10th. 1781. Inclosed herewith I have the honor to transmit to your Excellency an Act of Congress of the 7th instant, together with an Extract of Mr. Holker’s letter therein referred to. 1 With the greatest respect & regard, I am, Your Excellency’s most obedient humble servant FC (PHi: McKean Papers). In the hand of Thomas McKean. 1 In response to the enclosed extract from Jean Holker’s letter, the Pennsylvania Council ordered all state officials “to aid and assist in the apprehending and securing all French seamen” for impressment into the French navy, and “recommended to all merchants, captains of vessels, and other inhabitants of this State, to discourage the employment of such seamen in any vessels belonging to or sailing out of this port.” See JCC, 21:943; and Pa. Council Minutes, 13:53—55. Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia Sepr. 11th. 1781 Nothing from You by this post, nor have I any thing to Communi cate excepting the arrival of three Vessells from Cadiz which they left about the last of July. Private letters by these Vessells say that the Combind fleets of France & Spain amounting to 53 of the line and
