32 September 11, 1781 about four hundred transports with troops had put to Sea, suppossd to be going against Minorca. 1 I Beg leave to refer you to the inclosd letter. 2 I have seen one of the Suits—viz Blue fac’d with red, white Cloth waistcoats & Breeches & overalls—the quallity, I think proper; If you desire it one of the Suits shall be sent. I Believe Messrs. Mead & Co. wou’d treat for flour provided the offer about the Iron is not agreable—please to enable me to give him an answer. I am, Dear Sr., with great Esteem, Yr. Most Obt Sev. Dani. Carroll [P.S. . . . ] shall be sent by the first favble. opportunity. Mr Cottinger the Taylor will execute your other Compts as soon as possible. 3 RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 The deployment of the Franco-Spanish fleet that sailed from Cadiz on July 21, 1781, was part of a complex maneuver that culminated the following February in the capitulation of Minorca. See Jonathan R. Dull, The French Navy and American Indepen dence (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1975), pp. 232-36, 267. 2 Not identified. 3 This day Carroll also sent the following brief note to Lee: “I am this moment favord with yours of the 7th & shall pay due attention to the Contents. If the business can be managd in the manner you are So Kind as to mention, let my Son Know it, & I will give an order accordingly. It is Consequence to me to reserve as much as possible here.” Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, MdHi. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston Philadelphia 11th. Septemr 1781 I was favourd, my dear Sir, with your friendly Letter of the 24th of August. 1 I am pleased with your Acceptance of the office assigned you. 2 If on experiment it shoud not prove agreeable it opens the Way to your going abroad in a publick Character. Notwithstanding your Aversion to a Life of severe Labour I take it for granted you’l give entire Satisfaction in the office you are now to possess. I sin cerely wish you was here before I retire as I am perswaded every thing woud be put on a footing agreeable to you. I am sorry indeed that you raised any Obstacles as they produce a most inconvenient Suspence. I enclose you a Copy of the Acts of Congress on this Subject. If the Salary shoud prove incompetent it will be raised. If I might advise you it woud not be altercated at this time even if you shoud Judge it to be scanty. We see the most urgent necessity to retrench our Expenditures at the very time that we are called upon to Establish offices which will be burthensome & expensive. To my great Satisfaction Col. Laurens is returnd having executed his Mission with great Reputation to himself and Advantage to his Country. His Expences were within 300 Guineas: he refused any
