September 11, 1781 35 Land is easily to be had and where Education may ensure some Office. To quit all Connection with the Contest in this Stage of it and take Horse & a pr. of Saddle Bags to make Something handsome as the Phrase is out of Credit meerly does not fall in with some fixed Principles to which I have been accustomed. More than one whom I esteem and whom I doubt not to call my Friends have appeared to advise my “paying a Visit to Massachusetts.” I greatly Wish to know what are the imagined Utilities that may balance the inevitable Injuries which I have hinted. Do be candid with me if you have heard Conversation on that Head. Mr. J A has Power to form a Treaty of Alliance with Holland to make it Triple or Quadruple for the Purposes of this War. 5 Mr. J Laurens can give no News of him so late as what a Capt. Mason brought, who had been Captured. Mr. A took public Parade about the 24th of May. I will give you none of the thousand Reports here as to military matters but shall not fail to send you any material Facts that rise. Yr. obliged & affectte., humble Servt. J L RC (NHi: Elbridge Gerry Collection, photostat). 1 Not identified. 2 Not found. 3 Not found. 4 See Samuel Osgood to John Lowell, July 10, note, and August 28, 1781. 5 See Lovell to John Adams, September 1, 1781. Thomas McKean to William Livingston and Joseph Reed Sir, Philadelphia September 11. 1781. Your Excellency will receive inclosed herewith an Act of Congress of yesterday, containing a requisition of three thousand Militia of each of the States of Pennsylvania & New Jersey, to be properly officered and equipped. An apprehension of a sudden invasion of the State of New Jersey, and of an attempt on Philadelphia, by the Enemy at New York, gave rise to this recommendation; and the safety of both will, I rest assured, induce each State to make the most strenuous efforts on this occasion. 1 I wish you all manner of Success in this arduous work, and that the machinations of our Enemies may be entirely defeated. With the utmost respect & regard, I am, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedient Humble Servant, Tho M:Kean President 2
