40 September 13, 1781 visit him. That Col. John Trumbull is also confined but his friends have access to him. The direction of our Navy is committed to the Superintendant of Finance till further Order. It was agreed to ap point an Agent of Marine with one Clerk the agent to have 1500 dollars per annum, and ballots were taken but no person Elected. There is a new arrangement of the Treasury department. There is to be a Controller, a suitable number of auditors & Clerks to Liqui date accounts, a Register to keep the public accounts, a Treasurer to receive and pay out the monies, on the orders of Congress or the Superintendant of Finance. The office of treasurer of Loans is abolished & the duties of it annexed to the office of Treasurer of the united States. Col. Grayson has resigned his office in the Board of War. Five states are unrepresented, the President was desired to write to the Executives, to Send on their Delegates—but his Letters fell into the hands of the Enemy by the Post being taken at Pompton, an Escort is Since ordered between Morristown & Fishkill. Congress have directed the Committee on the Post office to confer with the Superintendant of Finance & Post Master General, and report a new arrangement. The Superintendant thinks the Postage ought to be reduced to what it was originally & Some of the officers dis charged, and Franks to be taken off—or put under a different regulation, but thinks it must be kept in the hands of the public during the war. Something I hope will Soon be done. We have a report that New London is burnt but dont fully credit it. 1 1 hope our people on the Sea Coast will be on their Guard, for I imagine that the Enemy will attempt to make what depretations they can in the absence of our main Army. I wrote to You by the {Post} about the last of August expecting the Letter would meet you at New Haven on the circuit. 2 I am Sir with great respect, Your humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (CtY: Eliot Family Collection). Endorsed by Huntington: “receivd 24th Seotemr. Answerd Octor 12th.” 1 See John Witherspoon to William Livingston, September 11, note 2. 2 The last letter from Sherman to Huntington that has been found is dated August 90 17Q1 ® Ezra L’Hommedieu to John Tayler Dear Sr. 1 Philadelphia Sept. 14 1781. I was favoured with your kind Letter by Doctor Young, and a little before by Mr. Van Voort, I received one from Mr Cuyler, requesting the Relinquishment of the Location to the Island agreable to your Information. By this Conveyance I have retained him for Answer
