September 14, 1781 41 “That I was sorry that I could not consistant with my Interest & Engagements comply with his Request, that a friend I met with at Albany last Winter (a Refugee) advanced the money to me to make the Location expecting I might make something by it hereafter and purchase some lands adjoining, which I concluded were the same that he had secured, that should I give up the Location he would expect the Preference, and that at present I could not consent to part with the Island which I had reason to believe was an advan tageous Location trusting to the Location of Other Lands hereafter in Lieu thereof. That it would give me great pleasure to Oblige him in this Particular, at the same time I was assured that he would not accept of any offer from me (under my present Circumstances) contrary to my Interest.” If you think it advisable you can tell him that he & I had one motive in Locating vizt making Profit, & likely I should pursue that Object and probably would sell it hereafter if I could get an Price to my Mind, but in this act your own Judgment. You will no doubt expect considerable news by this Conveyance, but I fear I can give you Nothing New to be depended on. We have had nothing from the Marquis’s Army Since the Landing the Troops from De Grasse’s Fleet. It is beleived in town that Count De Barras has joined De Grasse if so there are now in the Bay 35 ships of the Line. It is likewise reported to day with probability of Truth that Admiral Digby this week was on the Coast & that Troops were imbarking at New York. With this addition the English fleet will be 29 Ships of the Line, should there be a naval Engagement perhaps it will be the greatest ever known. It is probable that the Circumstance of the french Squadrons being in the Bay may give them an Advan tage besides their Superiority in Number of Ships & Guns. General Washington before this (about Wednesday last) must have arrived at the Marquis Camp in Virginia & probably the Troops that went by water, which were mostly Americans. At the Head of Elk, they, both officers & privates received one months Pay in hard money, our poor Line would scarce beleive their own Eyes. This has given them Spirits & put them in good Humour. The Arrival of Colo Lawrens with Arms, other Military Stores, Cloathing & Hard Money was exceeding fortunate. Doctor Young I expect will succeed in his application, & probably will leave Town next Week, by him I shall do myself the Pleasure to communicate any thing New we may then Have. I expected by this Time to have returned, but it being the Opinion of many high in office in Our State that we ought to stay longer being justified in so doing, by the Resolutions of Our Ap pointment; ’tis likely we shall continue till sometime in the Begin ning of next month: altho we shall be obliged to spend on our private funds. A New Arrangement has taken Place for settling the public Accounts agreable to a Plan of the Superintendant of Fi nance, by which means the Board of Treasury, Chambers of Ac-
