44 September 15, 1781 James Lovell to Abigail Adams Madam, Sepr. 15. 1781 Under a Date of Aug. 24 I did myself the Pleasure to endeavour to convey to you later Information respecting your dear Connection in Holland than you had before received, but my Letter was with others carried to N York. Mr. Adams & Family were well May 28th; and he had a few Days before taken upon him self much more of public Character than at any prior Time. 1 Instead of Lodgings he took an House with Equipage and Servants in Proportion. It was judged to be according to the Wishes of the Dutch Government. Capt. Mason who gave me the Information had been captured so that he cautiously sunk all his Dispatches. I do not find any Particu lars by Mr. Laurens worth communicating in regard to the Affairs of Holland. I have before me a Letter of Mr. Adams to him dated May 8th in which he says. “I have communicated my Credentials to the States General, who after the Deliberations which the Form of their Constitution requires will determine whether they can receive them or not. It will probably be long before they decide.” 2 His Change in Appearance towards the End of the Month makes me conjecture he was a little mistaken. He must in a few Days after Writing have received our Resolves passed March 1st upon the compleat Signature of the Articles of Confederation, which gave him new Confidence. Perhaps before the Chevalr. L’Etombe, the Bearer, leaves Philada. we may have Something authentic from Cheseapeak of the agreable Kind: I will not give you Baltimore Reports, which are become prover bial, for Falsities. Rivington got so little by the late Capture of our Mail, that he was induced to misspell, mispoint, and misletter to afford Amusement to his Customers by the Assurance of a literatim 8c verbatim Publica tion. My Letter is printed without being directed to any Body and is signed j.S. I imprudently mentioned that you might momently expect Com modore Gillon, and a Capt. Eden at Boston. I now hope they are arrived. I wish you every Happiness and am with much Esteem, Your humble Servant, J L RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 4:212-13. Al though Burnett printed a letter from Lovell to Abigail under this date, tlie document is actually one of another date, for which see ibid., p. 213n; Lovell to Abigail Adams, July 13, 1781; and Burnett, Letters, 6:219. 1 See Lovell to Elizabeth Dana, August 23, 1781, note 2. 2 Lovell was quoting from John Adams’ May 8, 1781, letter to John Laurens, which is printed in Adams, Works (Adams), 7:415-16.
