46 September 15, 1781 gland, with Dispatches for Admiral Digby; she sailed nine days after the Admiral. On Tuesday two Frigates came up, who announced the arrival of Admiral Digby on the coast (the number of Men of war not known) with a Fleet consisting of upwards of an hundred Sail, having Troops on Board, the amount not mentioned: these Frigates returned for the Admiral in a few hours. Two dispatch Vessels had arrived from Cornwallis after the ap pearance of the french Fleet in Chesapeake—Between thiry & forty large Transports lay at New-York on Tuesday ready to sail, and more were getting ready—Sir Henry Clinton is said to be going with them Their destination unknown but conjectured to be either tor Virginia or Delaware Bay. From forty to sixty Negroes are sent on Board these vessels, who are said to belong to persons in Virginia, and are to be returned to their respective Masters by the advice of Lord Cornwallis. On Sunday Arnold returned to New-York from an Expedition to New-London in Connecticut, leaving his Troops on Board the Transports in Huntington Bay. He has destroyed all the Stores & Shipping at that place, except six vessels that escaped by favor of the wind. The two fortifications there were taken by Assault, and all put to the sword, except eleven men who had hid themselves. Alter plundering New-London he burnt it, leaving only three or four houses standing. It is said he is going on another Expedition immediately. . . . ... The Minister of France will communicate this intelligence to Count de Grasse. An anxiety to be serviceable induces me to give you this information, tho’ the evidence of the truth of it is not quite satisfactory, as I have not a line respecting any part of it from any person officially, not even of the destruction of New-London. Gen eral Heath indeed, in a Postcript to his letter of the 5th instant, mentions, that 26 large Ships were seen sailing up the Sound oppo site to Stamford on the Sunday preceding, but he had learned nothing more of them. , By the english papers, as well as Rivingtons Gazette, Digbys Fleet is said to consist of ten Ships of the line; therefore I do not think they can exceed that number, tho’ they may be less There are three thousand Militia to be forthwith embodyed in this State and the like number in New Jersey. The requisition of Congress has been already received by the respective governors, and orders are gone out in consequence. 1 . . Never had we occasion for more wisdom, vigilance and activity. 1 pray God to preserve your health, and to guide, direct and protect us all in this hour of trial; and am, Sir, with unfeigned respect & esteem Your Excellency’s Most obedient & most humble Servant, Thos M:Kean
