50 September 17, 1781 The Writer is a recruiting Officer in New York, and has Agents in our State for supplying him with recruits. Your Excellency will undoubtedly take proper Measures to secure MacNeal, who may still be at Kingwood, and I think some Notice should be taken of Harrison, who is Mr. Erskins Book keeper. I dare not write the News of the Day, as there is nothing to be depended on. Various Reports of the French Fleet sailing & beating the English; but no certainty. We reed, a Letter from the Comr. in Chief from Dumfries. 3 He expected to Join the Marquis on Friday last. I have the honor to be with due Respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt. Hble Serv. Elias Boudinot Sept. 19. No News in Congress. I see a Letter reed this Day from Annapolis, that informs, that Count de G[rasse] had gone out to sea leaving 4 74 Gun Ships in the Harbor. That the English slipped in & attacked the 4 Ships, who behaved nobly, till the Count returning put the English to flight. After this Mons De Barras joind the Count. He took on his passage a 44 gun Ship, 2 frigates & 2 Transports. The Privateer Congress arrived to day, with an English Sloop of War of 18 Guns the Savage. RC (NN: Livingston Papers). 1 Boudinot had gone to Trenton to argue a case in the Court of Chancery, from where he had written to Thomas McKean on September 11 reporting news of the movement of the British fleet and troops at New York. He had also reported that “I hope to be with you in two or three days.” McKean Papers, PHi. 2 Not identified; but the letter was among those captured by Gen. Francis Marion “near Monks corner” and transmitted to Congress by General Greene with his August 26 letter to Thomas McKean, which was read in Congress this day and referred to the Board of War. See JCC, 21:969; and PCC, item 155, 2:247-48. 3 For Washington’s brief September 12 letter to President McKean which was read in Congress this day, see PCC, item 152, 10:245; and JCC, 21:970. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir Philadelphia 17th Septr. 1781. On Friday last his Excellency General Washington joined the Marquis de la Fayette; and we are fully convinced that nothing but a Miricle can rescue Lord Cornwallis and his Army from our Hands. By Letters from Baltimore we are informed that Admiral Greaves lately made an Attack upon the French Fleet in the Chesepeak, and was repulsed; That the next day Count de Grass put to Sea, leaving two Seventy fours and a Frigate to block up the Entrance of York River, and attacked the British; that a severe Conflict ensued, in wch. the noble Count dispersed his Antagonists’ Fleet; that he cap-
