September 18, 1781 55 Courts and assembly seldom set at the same time so that I cannot see why he may not. I expect that Coll Barnes has declined. Mr Chase attacked his understanding so pointedly, that I immagine the Coll is quite disgusted with all public business. I hear that our friend TW has been attacked & severely beat by some person in the disguise of a Drummer pretending to charge him with Crim[inal] Con[versa- tion] with his Wife. No late News from Europe altho a Frigate in 33 days is arrived with dispatches for the Minister. The dispatches bear date the 28th. The Emperor was to be in Paris the day after. This does not look like a Rupture between him and his Brotherly in law The Congress is still talked of but the King of England persists in his former determination that American independance shall not be mentioned at it. So that it is probable We must fight on. With my respectful Compliments to Mrs. Hall. 7 I am, My dear Sir, Your obedient and affectionate hble Servt., Daniel of St Thos Jenifer RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). 1 For the newspaper feud between Samuel Chase and Charles Carroll of Carrollton stemming from the impending election of the Maryland Senate, see Jenifer to Hall June 5, 1781, note 1. Joseph Jones to Unknown D r - Sr. Phila. 18th Sept. 1781 I reed, your Letter of the 10th inclosing several from Col. Stewart. No apology wod. have been necessary but from the particular state of our finances which requires that the Post office maintain itself and the complaints from the Post master are frequent that too many Letters pass free. Col Stewart however being of the Military to whom indulgences of the sort should be allowed if to any the transgression of the rule is the more excuseble and as I presume you were igno rant of the fact and it being the first offence you are I think fairly intitled to the benefit of clergy. The 5th day after the Ct. de Grasses arrival in the Bay we had an account of it. Genl. Washington who had just left us met it at Chester. We hear by different private accounts that the British fleet had attempted to dispossess the French of the Bay and were repulsed with the loss of one 74. If this be true the event is important and serves more effectually to estab lish that naval Superiority upon which our success must depend. Arnold with bet[ween] 1500 & 2000 Troops from N. York went up the Sound and landed at New London, attacked and carryed fort Trumbull by general assault and put great part of the Garrison to the sword. Near 80 are killed, abt. 30 wounded and near 40 pris oners. A party of his Troops under a Col. Montgomery at the same
