September 18, 1781 57 2 Although the report of the “Committee appointed to prepare an Exposition of the Confederation had recently recommended that the states authorize Congress “to vary the rules of suffrage,” no action was taken on the proposal and New Hampshire remained unrepresented until November 4, 1782, when Phillips White joined John laylor Gilman in Congress. Furthermore, as Livermore returned home at the end of April and Gilman did not arrive until June 20, the state was entirely without a voice in Congress for several weeks in the spring. See JCC, 21:895-96, 22:338 23 707 James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir Philada. Sepr. 18th. 1781 I was yesterday favored with yours of the 10th instant. 1 The various reports arrived of late from Chesapeake prepared us for a confirmation from our correspondents of a fortunate rencontre between the 2 fleets. A continuation of these reports although un supported by any authentic evidence still keeps up the public anxi ety. We have not heard a word of de Barras. The arrival of Digby is far from being certain, and the circulating reports have reduced his force to six ships of the line. The preparations at New York for some movement are pretty well attested. The conjectures of many are directing it against this City, as the most practicable & important object within the reach of Clinton. The successful blow struck by the parricide Arnold against the Town of New London is described as far as the particulars are known here in the inclosed gazettes. There have been several arrivals of late from Europe with very little intel ligence of any kind & with none from official sources. It all relates to the junction of the French & Spanish fleets, for the purpose of renewing the investiture of Gibralter, and enterprising something against Minorca. Thus the selfish projects of Spain not only with holds from us the co-operation of their armaments, but diverts in part that of our Allies, & yet we are to reward her with a cession of what constitutes the value of the finest part of America. Genl. Washington & the Ct. de Rochambeau with the forces under them have I presume by this time got within Virginia. This revolu tion in our military plan can not fail to produce great advantages to the Southern department and particularly to Virginia, even if the immediate object of it should be unexpectedly frustrated. The pres ence of the Commander in chief with the proportion of our force which will always attend him, will better protect the Country against the depredations of the Enemy although he should be followed by troops from N. Y. which wd. otherwise remain there, than it has hitherto been, will leave the Militia more at leisure to pursue their occupations at the same time that the demands of the Armies will afford a sure market for the surplus provisions of the Country, will diffuse among them a share of the gold & silver of our Ally & I may now say of our own of wch. their Northern Brethren have hitherto
