September 18, 1781 59 Genl. Greene is like to get more effectual aid from North Carolina than he expected. By a private letter which I received from Genl. Greene yesterday I am happy to find that the conduct of Govr. Burke is satisfactory to him. I beg Mrs. Huntington to accept my best compliments. With the highest esteem I have the honor to be, Dear Sir, Your most Obt. Humble Servt. Wm. Sharpe P.S. I have this moment heard by two private letters just received from Baltimore and the western shore that Count de Barras had arived and brought in with him one 44 two frigates & two transports captured from the enemy—that the enemy had appeared in the bay and were driven out. On the whole I believe there has been some hurry 1 which issued in our favour. W. S. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Endorsed by Huntington: “Honble Wm Sharpe, Letter Sepr 18, 1781, Answerd Octor 10th.” 1 That is, “tumult, stir.” Virginia Delegates to Thomas Nelson Sr. No. 10 Philadelphia Septr. 18th 1781 We have been honord with Yr. Excellency’s favor of the 2d Inst, with its enclosures by Post. 1 We with great Sincerity return Congratulations to your Excel lency and our Country on the happy event of the arrival of so large a reinforcement to our aid, and felicitate them on the Pleasing pros pect of Complete Success—not doubting but that the Ardor of our Countrymen on this occasion to cooperate with our Allies, will equal [their] Generous efforts to relieve us. We are informed that our Army on the North River is daily increasing by large accessions of recruits from the Eastern States, and is now in a very respectable Situation as to Numbers, 2 Sufficiently so we hope to keep the En emy in New York in Cheque notwithstanding the powerfull rein forcement which has marchd to the Southward with the Com mander in Chief, however, from the Enemy’s Possessing the Command of the Water in that Quarter we are Sorry to inform you it has not been in the power of our Army to prevent them from sending a Considerable detachment to New London in Connecticut, where Mr. Arnold, who Commanded, Landed and attacked a fort Garrisond by about two hundred & fifty men, which, (after a Severe Conflict in which he was twice repulsed) he carried, and put the Greatest part of the Garrison to the Sword; his loss is estimated at near two Hundred men killd, wounded &.c. After seting fire to the
