60 September 18, 1781 Towns of New London and Groton which were in a great measure consumed he reimbarked, and tis said is returnd to New York. We are also Sorry to Inform you that the frigate of our Ally (the Magi- cienne), in going out of the Harbour of Boston with a Convoy of American Vessels was attacked by a Superior force of the Enemy and taken after an obstinate and Gallant defense, in which she gave time to her Convoy to escape. By the best accounts we have from N York—the Enemy are preparing an Embarkation of troops—whose destination it is supposed will depend much on the Success of the operations of their fleet to the Southward—tho, some are of opinion that they mean to extend their burning Plan to this City. A large Body of Militia from this State and Jersey are orderd to hold them selves in readiness to oppose such an attempt shd. it be undertaken. We have reports that a Squadron of Men of War under the Com mand of Ad. Digby is arrived on this Coast—the report seems Probable but wants Confirmation—it is Supposed to consist of not less than Six and not more than ten Ships of the line, tis said he is to take the Command of the whole fleet on his arrival. By some inter cepted letters we find there are great discontents in New York at Sr. Henry Clintons Conduct—that they are much distressed for want of Men—giving Six Guineas bounty for Men for three Months—that Arnold has been greatly disappointed in raising his Legion which after all his promises and efforts amounts at present to little more than forty Men the chief of them officers, and that even that num ber is daily diminishing—they seem to expect he will be laid aside. Mr. Finnies letters shall be handed to Col. Petit, and every exertion in our power used to procure him and the State redress; 3 But in order to ensure Success in this attempt, we cannot too strongly inculcate the necessity of the accounts of the state and of his depart ment being adjusted, and sent on to the office of Finance for Settlement—for without such an adjustment and a Balance appear ing due to the State, we concieve it absolutely impracticable to bring Congress to assent an advance on any consideration having here tofore used our Utmost efforts in Vain for that Purpose. We have a report that a fleet of Six French and Six Dutch Ships of the line with a Considerable Body of Land Forces is arrived in the W Indies, but of this there is yet no certainty. We Cannot refrain from informing Your Excellency that altho An Agent 4 is appointed to furnish the delegates with money & we have been long in expectation of remit tances of Specific Articles to fix a permanent Credit for us here yet we see little prospect of its being accomplishd soon, and in the meantime it is with Infinite difficulty we have been able to procure the means of Subsistence for ourselves and families which we have been constraind to do by borrowing small [sums?] on our personal Credit—or by Bills drawn at large by the agent in our favor which cannot be discountd at less disadvantage to the State than from
