September 19, 1781 61 12!/2 to 20 Per Ct.—this we cannot help thinking a ruinous and disgracefull mode of obtaining money—of which it is our duty to advertize your excellency in hopes that a less ruinous, more honor able and certain expedient may be adopted and that we shall stand excused with our Country for the enhanced expences which such an enormous discount subjects it to. We are with great respect, Yr. Excellys. most obedt. & very H. Sets Jos. Jones Theok. Bland J. Madison Junr. Edmund Randolph. [P.S.] The Parchment Mr. Beckeley wrote for may be obtaind had we funds for so doing. 5 RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Bland and signed by Bland, Jones, Madison, and Randolph. Apparently opened in Richmond by the Council of State and endorsed: “Virga Delegates Letter, Sepr. 18th. 1781. To Govr. Nelson Covering the whole field of this their Situation.” Forwarded to Nelson at Yorktown who also endorsed it: “From Delegates Sepr. 18. 81.” 1 Not found, but for Nelson’s brief letter of the same date to Congress, see PCC, item 71, 2:125-26. 2 For Gen. William Heath’s September 5 letter reporting additions to his army, see Thomas McKean to Heath, September 12, 1781, note 2. 3 For the accounts of Col. William Finnie, former deputy quartermaster general for the southern department, see Madison Papers (Hutchinson), 3:59n.6. 4 That is, Thomas Pleasants, Jr., Philadelphia representative of Virginia commer cial agent David Ross. 5 John Beckley’s request has not been found, but as clerk of the Virginia House of Delegates he had apparently asked for parchment upon which assembly bills were engrossed. Richard Howly to Thomas McKean Sir. Septembr. the 19th. 1781. As it is necessary I should repair to the State of Georgia, I take the liberty of requesting thro’ your Excellency, that Congress would please to make me an advance of four hundred dollars, exclusive of the one hundred and fifty, which a former resolve has provided for by monthly payments, and which I request may be ordered to me, as I cannot wait untill the first of the next month. 1 This, Sir, I do assure you will be barely Sufficient with other aids, to enable me to depart this city with Satisfaction, and commence a long and expensive Journey. It is only the necessity of my presence in the State, which overcomes the reluctance I have of troubling Congress at this time. With Great Respect, I have the honor to be, Sir, yr. Excellency’s most obt. Servt. Richd. Howly
