September 21, 1781 63 construction, carrying a four pounder in the bow and ten or twelve swivels, and having sixteen oars. You will be pleased, Sir, to take the necessary precautions upon this intelligence; and if Cornelius Hatfield should be apprehended, I am to request that he may be securely confined and guarded. I am Sir, with the greatest regard &c &c, T. McK. President LB (DNA: PCC, item 16), Addressed: “To His Excelly. President Rodney. N.B. The same to the President of the Council of the eastern Shore of Maryland.” 1 According to Secretary Thomson’s journal, Congress resolved this day that “Dela ware be requested immediately to hold the whole of the militia of that State in readiness, and that one-half of them may be forthwith ordered into the field, as the movements of the enemy at New York indicate an attack in that quarter.” The source of this intelligence is not recorded. JCC, 21:975. Committee for Foreign Affairs to William Lee Sir Philadelphia 20 Sept 1781 The decission of Congress respecting your Letter of April 12 which came to hand on the 4th of this month is herewith trans mitted. The period of payment will perhaps be more distant than you wish; but I am at Liberty to assure you from the Superintendant of our Finances that it is his intention to take the earliest possible opportunity to close this business. 1 With much regard I am &c, Signed James Lovell Official FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). 1 Upon the recommendation of the committee to which Lee’s letter had been referred, Congress on September 12 ordered the payment of the balance of Lee’s account for his expenses as a commissioner to Austria and Prussia—“forty-two thou sand, one hundred and eighty-nine livres tournois . . . with interest at the rate of six percent per annum, from this day,” which superintendent Robert Morris subse quently instructed Benjamin Franklin in France to pay. See JCC, 21:931, 955; PCC, item 105, fols. 318—19; Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:361-63; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 3:280. James Lovell to Nathanael Greene Sir Philada. Sepr. 21st. 1781 You once sent some Papers to Congress which no one about you could decypher. 1 Should such be the Case with some you have lately forwarded, 2 I presume that the Result of my Pains, herein sent, will be useful to you. I took the Papers out of Congress; and I do not think it necessary to let it be known here what my Success has been
