12 September 25, 1781 Thomas McKean to John Cochran Sir, Philada Septr. 25th. 1781. I have the honor to inclose you an Act of Congress of the 20th instant; by which you will observe, besides some regulations respect ing promotions in general in the medical department, that Doctors Young, Wilson, Jenifer, Edmonson and Campbell are advanced to the rank of Hospital Physicians and Surgeons. 1 These promotions are agreeable to your recommendation, and, tho’ Congress com plied with it in this instance, I must inform you that they did it with reluctance, conceiving that the department is already furnished with a sufficient number of Officers of the different ranks. Several other resolutions are inclosed for the Gentlemen in your department which I take the liberty of transmitting to your care, and beg you will forward them as speedily as possible. 2 I have the honor to be &c &c, T. M K. Presidt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “To The Director of the Hospitals.” 1 For these September 20 resolutions, adopted at the recommendation of the Board of War upon the urging of Dr. Cochran, see ICC, 21:979-81; and PCC, item 148, 2:259-75. 2 Undoubtedly the resolutions appointing Daniel Smith assistant deputy purveyor, John Carne assistant deputy apothecary, and Drs. Thomas Tudor Tucker and Samuel Vickers physicians and surgeons in the hospital for the southern department. Opposition to filling these positions developed almost immediately. Upon being informed of this action by Elias Boudinot the following day, the superintendent of finance immediately wrote to President McKean to remind Congress of “the Neces sity of curtailing their expences as much as possible,” and James Duane simul taneously offered a motion to suspend the appointments. The latter failed, although opposed only by South Carolina, because five states were unrepresented. A motion of similar intent but more limited application—“That no appointment be made of mates, to supply the places of those promoted in the general hospital by the resolu tions of the 20”—was adopted on the 22d. See JCC, 21:983, 995; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 2:315, 322-23. Thomas McKean to William Churchill Houston Sir, Philada Septr. 25th. 1781. I feel a peculiar pleasure in transmitting to you an Act of Con gress of the 24th instant, together with the copy of an Ordinance of the 11th for regulating the Treasury and adjusting the public ac counts. The Office to which you have the honor of being appointed is not perhaps the most eligible to a person who loves ease, but, to a man of business & who wishes to promote the prosperity of his country, which I am perswaded is your case, it will be perfectly agreeable. The trust is a very great one, and the salary handsome, besides it will probably continue for life. 1
