74 September 25, 1781 repairing the deranged State of our finances and recruiting our Armies to their full Complement. The Great and Generous Exer tions of our ally in our favor certainly call on us for Similar ones on our Side and intitle them to Expect from us that we will put every engine in Motion to obtain those two great ends, therefore it be hoves us to act with Energy and call forth all our resources to ensure a good and Speedy Peace. Jos. Jones. Read & approved by James Madison & Signd at his request Theok. Bland RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Bland and signed by Bland and Jones. 1 The Virginia delegates were irritated that Nelson, who was encamped with Washington’s army near Yorktown, had failed to provide such “Authentic Intel ligence.” For further expressions of their chagrin, see Virginia Delegates to Nelson, October 9, 1781. Ezra L’Hommedieu to George Clinton Philadelphia Sept. 26. 1781. I send you the Journals of Congress, by Capt. Johnston as com- pleat as they can at present be procured; there being none left for the Year 1775, and none as yet printed for the present year. This delay of printing has been owing to the same Cause that has delayed the publishing the Votes & Laws of our Legislature. The Papers herewith enclosed, contain all the News we have at present; Every Day we expect to hear from General Washington when ’tis probable we shall be particularly informed of the Situation of Lord Corn wallis. Some officers late from New York say, that he is given up there as lost; and that tis common to hear the British officers say one to Another “Well, poor Corne is gone at last.” There is no doubt but the british Admiral Graves, received a severe Drubbing from Count De Grasse; he lost at Sea a 74 gun Ship the Terrible and the London; another Ship, of near equal Force, was so disabled, that ‘tis doubted whether she will be fit for service this Season. Some other Ships were much damaged. Sr. Harry Clinton intended to have reinforced Cornwallis with the Troops he had embarked, and was wating for the Determination of the naval Supe riority in the Chesapeake; and was sanguine in Expectations that the french could not stand before the haughty British. The return of the Fleet altered his opinion; the troops disimbarked with the To ries, who had their Effects on board the Transports in order to return to their respective Homes in Virginia. This State and New Jersey have been under great Apprehensions, that Sr. Harry would endeavor to make a Stroke at this City, or, fire
