80 September 26, 1781 Jones—a Gentl. it is said of distinguished merit—Delegates for the ensuing year. We have no Intelligence from Virginia of the late Naval Engage ment: for once we are indebted to Rivington. By this time our Army are approaching Lord Cornwallis: we are to suppose he will make an obstinate defence if he has sufficient Magazines of provisions. His strength is computed at 5000 regular Troops, 900 sailors, and 2000 negroes. We have the Honour to be—with the Utmost respect—dear Sir, Your Excellency’s most Obedt & most humble servants, Jas. Duane Ezra L’Hommedieu RC (N: Clinton Papers). Written by Duane and signed by Duane and L’Hommedieu. Tr (Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 7:359-60) RC charred; missing words supplied from Tr. Thomas McKean to Nathanael Greene Sir, Philada Septr. 27th. 1781. Inclosed herewith you will receive the copy of the proceedings of Congress of the 18th instant on your letter of the 25th last month. Being not certain whether they were sent with my last dispatches, I thought it adviseable to transmit them now. 1 Admiral Digby is arrived at New-York with three line of battle Ships, one of 90 & two of 74 guns each, leaving three more and some Frigates near the coast to convoy in about an hundred Transports, having some Troops on board, as it is mentioned by my informant. There appears to be a movement of a large body of Troops on Staten-Island towards the Delaware. I have the honor to be, Sir, with great regard, Your &c &c, T. M K. President 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 See McKean to Greene, September 21, 1781, note 2. 2 McKean also wrote the following brief letter to Greene this day. “Inclosed here with you will receive an Act of Congress of the 20th instant respecting the Hospital department, for your information. Since my letter of the 21st nothing of importance has occurred, excepting that two of the British Men of War, the Robust & Prudent, have on a survey last week been condemned as unfit for service—The Terrible, of 74 guns, certainly sunk at sea.” PCC, item 16, fols. 88-89. For the enclosed act “respect ing the Hospital department,” see McKean to John Cochran, September 25, 1781.
