84 September 28, 1781 fresh proof of La Luzerne’s friendship, his letter “of today” is in PCC, item 95, 2:31- 34, and is recorded at JCC, 21:1026, as having been read the 29th. In it he had explained the steps he had just taken to provide the superintendent of finance an additional £291,018 in bills of exchange as requested. This was necessary, Morris had explained to La Luzerne on the 25th, to maintain the flow of vitally needed supplies to Washington’s army, which might otherwise be disrupted because of the slowness of the transportation from Boston to Philadelphia of the money John Laurens had just brought to America from France. Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 2:348-51, 357-59. Elias Boudinot to James Caldwell Dear Sir, Philadelphia Sepr. 29th, 1781 Immediately on Lieut. Hambletons arriv[al] I lost no Time in obtaining Powder, Lead & Paper equal to 50000 Cartridges, not being able to get them ready made up. Our Advices from New York are particularly mentioned in my Letter to the Governor. 1 Not a Word from the Southward, but what is in this Days Paper. I wish you to let me know every movement of the Enemy. There will be about 3000 Men at New Town on Monday. I cannot obtain a Field Piece here, as there are but four or five in this department, which I suppose will go with the Militia. I write in Congress in the midst of an important Argument. Am D Sir, Yours Affectly. Elias Boudinot RC (MB: Chamberlain Collection). Addressed: “The Honble. & Revd. Mr. James Caldwell at Princeton.” 1 See the following entry. Elias Boudinot to William Livingston Dr. Sir, Philadelphia Septr. 29 1781 Immediately on Rect. of your favour of Yesterday, I obtained for Lieut. Hambleton Powder, Lead & Paper equal to 50,000 Car tridges. It was impossible to obtain the Cartridges ready made, otherwise they should have been sent. We have Intelligence from New York, that Admiral Digby had but three Ships in the whole under his Command from England. That four of the Enemy’s large Ships are so damaged, as not to be able to take the Seas without great repair, which they are now engaged in. The Yellow fever rages in their Army. They lost 5 Officers in the late sea Engagement & 10 Commissioned Officers at New London, with near 400 Men killed & wounded. No News from the Southward, but the Letter in the Paper from Count de Gras. I am with great Respect, Your Excel lency’s Most Obedt. Hble Sert, Elias Boudinot
