September 29, 1781 87 my sanguine expectations thereon. Since which time, I have had no cause to alter my opinion; on the contrary, it has received additional weight, from late intelligence on the other side the water—not public. Thus much for your own ear, or any other in whom you place entire confidence. Our Governor 2 I conceive to be one; and as I know there is the most perfect understanding between you I conclude you communicate your respective intelligence to each other in the most unreserved manner. I must therefore refer you to him, for our public intelligence (that is to say, the intelligence congress has re ceived) in our public letter to him of the 27th instant. 3 By that you will find what a damn’d vapouring that nation of Don Quixotes still keep up. A letter wrote from hence, by one of their officers, informing them that his Majesty’s brave troops, on such a day attacked a pig stye, & put to death 40 pigs, is immediately blazoned forth to the deluded multitude as a most signal victory gained over the rebels, & a few more such must inevitably starve them into submission. Of such a nature, is their famous victory of Guilford, The Cowpens &c. as represented by Cornwallis. In the name of God! let the poor devils enjoy their delusion. But it is not unlikely that Chs. Fox will awaken them from their golden dream ’ere it’s long. See the inclosed papers. However, unless their old friend the devil, can help them out at a dead left, I think we shall more effectually open their eyes for them, than even C. Fox will be able to do. If Cornwallis escapes us this bout, I shall begin to have some belief in the power of the devil—for no other God can they worship. But, as I as yet have no faith in him, I must believe he will for once leave them in the lurch. If then this “southern hero” is brought so low, as to submit to a pack of Ragamuffin rebels; I fancy he will lower his tone very much; & perhaps will tell his Masters he is at last convinced these fellows can fight. And as they seem to place such implicit faith in whatever he says; perhaps their eyes may at last be opened too, & they may be convinced, that, “the Rebels will [not] 4 be left to themselves, to be treated with on such terms & in such manner as they—Gt Britain—shall think proper,” & perhaps they may come down a peg, or two; & out of their special Grace and favor consent to the admission of an American Plenepo. into the Con gress. And most probably they may in the end, be induced to ex claim, May the Devil fly away with all the Rebels together, for we will have nothing further to do With them. And so bounce out of the Congress, in a high huff. Be it so. I don’t think our minister will not try to coax them back. I think I hear you say, it is high time to quit all this rodomontade, & come to something substantial, for you have something else to do, than spend your time in reading what don’t give you some useful information. Faith & troth!—Sancho like—if you don’t let me tell my story in my own way I shall never have done. If you had had a little patience, I was going to draw these conclu-
