October 2, 1781 97 important Duties a distinction was made in the Salaries for the great executive Departments. You will observe that the discrimination could not be personal, for the Salaries were all fixed before any nomination of Candidates. 2 As the Act is expressed your Stipend ought in my opinion to be considered merely as a provision for your own immediate Services. Office Expences, on a reasonable Construc tion, will include your necessary assistants and every incidental Charge. To enumerate and make a Requisition for them on proper grounds appears to me to be now impracticable. 3 Experience alone will give a Just foundation. The Financier who is to provide for the civil List will unquestionably contribute to settle those matters prop erly. I have already chatted with him on the Subject. As the useful ness of the office and the essential Advantages which I expect from your abilities unfold themselves, the Justice of enlarging your Salary will become obvious and the disagreeable Task of Sollicitation thro’ those who are known to be your Friends unnecessary. May I add that in the present Temper of Congress, pressed as they are with wants and difficulties, you will exalt your Character by the Moderation of your Appointments and your own personal Activity. You say we ought not to return untill the Expiration of our Au thority. Had you backed your Advice with a Remittance for our Support we woud chearfully have acquiesced. At present a Stern monitor, our exhausted purse—dictates to us the necessity of retir ing. I find, my dear Sir, an opinion prevails—and sorry I am to see that even you subscribe to it—that the office I possess is a full Compensation for the Loss of all domestic Happiness—to say noth ing of my long and faithful Services for these carry with them their own reward. You, Sir, who are a Husband and a Parent ought to feel for me. The Legislature will—they cannot but have sufficient Can dour to be reconciled to the Representation which I shall lay before them. It will be time enough for me to speak a plain language when it can be done without presumption. As I never sollicited any pub lick Office, so I shall not suppose my Reelection to be a thing of Course. Be pleased to present my respectful Compliments To Mrs. Liv ingston and believe me to be with great regard, Dear Sir, Your most Obedient Servant, Jas. Duane 4 RC (NHi: Robert R. Livingston Papers). 1 The letter to which Duane is here responding is actually dated “20th Sept” in the draft in the Livingston Papers, NHi. On the other hand, Livingston’s letter to Presi dent McKean accepting appointment as secretary for foreign affairs, which was read in Congress on October 1, is dated September 23. See JCC, 21:1028 (where Secretary Thomson misdated the latter September 17); and PCC, item 79, 2:5-6. See also Thomas McKean to Livingston, September 6; and Duane to Livingston, September 11, 1781.
