98 October 2, 1781 2 Livingston had complained to Duane that the salary for the secretary for foreign affairs “carries with it a mortifying degree of inferiority,” inasmuch as it had been set at $4,000 per year, while $6,000 had been specified for the superintendent of finance and $5,000 each for the secretaries of war and marine. In response to this objection, however, Congress resolved on October 1 to reduce the latter to $4,000, equalizing the salaries of the three secretaries. See JCC, 19:64, 133, 21:1030; and Duane to Livingston, October 10, 1781. 3 Livingston had also complained of the inadequacy of his salary on the mistaken assumption that he would be paying the expense of his office, including the salaries and living expenses of whatever clerks he would need to employ. 4 For the continuation of this letter, see Duane to Livingston, October 10, 1781. John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee Dear sir Philadelphia Octo 2d 1781 General Washinton has been on a Vissit to Count de Grasse, on board his Ship the Ville de paris at Cape Henry. He returned to Williamsburgh the 23d Ult. He says he found the French Admiral disposed in the best manner, to give us all the assistance in his power, and perfectly to Cooperate wth. him in our present Attempt on Lord Cornwallis, and hopes to be before the Enemies Works in a few days. Our Vessels from the Head of Elk, are all Arrived, and were debarkg the Troops and stores, except a few, which were hourly Expected, their not having Arrived, is Accounted for from the Dullness of their Sailing. Every account from N York Confirms that of the Enemys haveing Suffered greatly in their late Engagement with Count de Grasse. That Admirals Account of it is very Short, and Modest. He Acquaints the Minister, that the British fleet have ing Appeared off the Capes, He immediately went out to meet them, Attacked their Van (which was treated very roughly) drove them off and then returned into Chesapeake; that he took two frigates in the Bay, which had been Sent in to Cut the Boyes from His Cables. The Defeat of the British fleet is a most Glorious and fortunate Event, as it will Effectually prevent Any Succors being Sent to Cornwallis, whose fate from present Appearances I think is inevitable—God grant the Business may be Speedily Effected, that we may have time in Conjunction with the French fleet to Act Elsewhere before the winter season Comes on. On the return of the British fleet to N York, the Troops that were embarked for the Southward landed on Staten Island on Account of Sickness, where they Still are. I have the honor to be with the greatest esteem and respect, Your Excellencys most Obedt Servt, John Hanson 1 RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 1 Hanson had returned to Congress on September 24 after an absence of five months, for which see Hanson to Philip Thomas, April 10, 1781, note 2.
