October 2, 1781 101 and yet retains much of the usual Curiosity about your intended Journey this Way. “do you think he really will come”? Yr. Friend & humble Servt, J L RC (MHi: Gerry Papers). 1 Nicholas Broughton of Marblehead, Mass., had been captured while serving on board a privateer and taken to England. Escaping from prison, Broughton had made his way to France where he had been advanced twelve guineas by Benjamin Franklin, “on account of the United States,” to enable him to return to America, and he had petitioned for relief from the obligation of repaying the advance. The petition, which had been forwarded to Congress by Gerry, had been referred to the Board of War, which had recommended against Broughton on August 7, 1781, a recommendation Congress had endorsed the following day. See JCC, 20:757, 759, 21:840-41- ‘PCC item 41, 1:349-56, item 148, 2:133-35. 2 For this cryptic remark, see Lovell to Gerry, August 10, 1781, note 1. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir Philada. Ocr. 2d. 1781 Yours of 24th ulto. 1 came safe by yesterdays post. In addition to the paper of this day I enclose you two of the preceding week in one of which you will find a very entertaining & interesting speech by Mr Fox, and in the other a handsome forensic discussion of a case important in itself and which has some relation to the State of Virginia. 2 Our intelligence from N. Y. through several channels confirms the sufferings of the B. fleet from their rash visit to the Capes of Chesapeak. The troops which were kept in Transports to await that event have since the return of the fleet been put on shore on Staten Island. This circumstance has been construed into a preliminary to an expedition to this City, which had revived, till within a few days the preparations for a Militia opposition, but is better explained by the raging of a malignant fever in the City of N Y. Digby we hear is now certainly arrived but with three ships of the line only. It is given out that three more with a large number of Transports came with him and that they only lay back till it was known whether they could proceed to N. Y. with safety. This is not improbably suspected to be a trick to palliate the disappointment and to buoy up the sinking hopes of their adherents, the most staunch of whom give up Lord Cornwallis as irretrievably lost. We have received some communications from Europe relative to the general State of its affairs. They all center in three important points; the first is the obstinacy of G. B, the second the fidelity of our Ally, and the third the absolute necessity of vigorous & systema tic preparations for war on our part in order to ensure a speedy as well as favorable peace. 3 The Wisdom of the Legislature of Virginia
