October 2, 1781 107 Comprehension; And you will judge mine very imperfect troubling you about matters, nothing to the Purpose. Yet the love of scribbling prompts my Pen, & I am not Master of Prudence enough to decide upon the Rules of strict Propriety. I should have written by Doctor Flagg, but thr[ough] a Mistake, I was not advertised of his Depar ture ’till it was too late. If you will excuse me for this unmeaning Meddly, I promise to write something in my next, more worthy your Acceptation. Be pleased to return my best Regards to Miss Flagg, & accept the most unfeigned acknowledgements of your affectionate Friend and very humble Servant. J. M. Varnum RC (MWA: Greene Papers). 1 For the battle of Eutaw Springs, S.C., see also Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard, October 3, 1781, note 1. 2 An undetermined number of words or lines missing. 3 See Virginia Delegates to Thomas Nelson, October 9, 1781, note 4. James M. Varnum to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 2d Octr. 1781. Your Excellency is well acquainted with the natural and political Situation of the Island of Bermuda. For many Reasons I have tho’t a Conquest of that Island necessary. Its Inhabitants are generally friendly to the united States, and are loudly dependent on them for Subsistence. It was intended to be annexed to them when the Treaty of Alliance was formed with France. Should it be ultimately an nexed, will form an excellent Barrier against naval Operations in a future War. But should the British strenuously insist upon retaining some Possessions, in a general Pacification, in Consequence of then holding Posts, such as New York &c., it may be necesary to silence their Claim by Composition. In that Case the Island might be ceded. Our Commerce is greatly annoyed by the Privateers which ren- desvous there; A Conquest might relieve us from that Inconvenience & convert it into a Place of Arms for our own Vessells. As we have politically debarred the Inhabitants from all Correspondence or Commerce, their Necessities will oblige them to cruise for our Provi sion Vessells: Their Island is every way calculated to annoy us in that Respect. I have made myself fully acquainted with the Strength, Defences, & Resources of the Place: I am confident that five hun dred Men, aided by three or four Frigates, would be fully sufficient to take the Island; & that Number would be sufficient to garrison it, could they have six Weeks to fortify themselves, previous to an Attempt to dislodge them. They should have six Months Provision, Artillery, Amunition, & some spare Arms, as two Battalions might be raised from the white and black Inhabitants. To give them a Time
