October 3, 1781 109 Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My dear Sir, Philadelphia Octr. 3d 1781 This has been an important day for News both foreign & domes tic. What I can inform you of, is that a Member from North Carolina arrived here last Night and informs that he see a Dr. Brown who was on furlough from the Army, and to whom an Express came from Genl Green urging his speedy return, informing that he had, had a general Action, in which he lost upwards of 300 killed & wounded. 1 He had detached Genl Marian & Coll Lee on some particular busi ness, when he was attacked by the Enemy. The attempt was first made on the Militia, who reed them with Spirit, Coll Washington was sent into the Enemies rear. The British was forced & fell back, thus making a front to Coll Washington, by which means he suf fered greatly, loosing every Officer but one either killed or Wounded—himself taken Prisoner several hours, but afterwards released—on the whole the Enemy were totally routed; with the Loss of upwards of 700 killed & taken. Coll Washington is wounded thro the side, and several valuable Officers killed. Genl Marian & Coll Lee with their fresh Troops, came up just at the Conclusion and immediately went in Pursuit of the Enemy. We have also official Information of a Battle having been fought between 9 Dutch Ships & 12 English Ships under Admiral Parker in the North Sea. The Battle severe, and the English compleatly routed—the Dutch lost two of their Ships, in returning to the Texel not being able to keep them above Water. The Dutch fleet had 70 Sail of Merchantmen under Convoy—and the English attacked them with Dutch Colours under their English out of derision—400 Men were killed in the Dutch fleet. No likely- hood of Peace. The Battle was the 12 Augt. 2 I am Dr Sir, Yours Afftly, B P.S. By some unlucky accident after sending [ . . . ] Letters to Post Office too late four [of] the enclosed 3 left behind. A Party of the Enemy by a forced March, lately carried of^f] Govr Burke from North Carolina, he was upwards of 150 Miles from their Post at Wilmington. 4 RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). 1 This news of the battle of Eutaw Springs, a bloody but indecisive encounter on September 8 between forces commanded by Gen. Nathanael Greene and Lt. Col. Alexander Stewart, was brought to Philadelphia by North Carolina delegate Ben jamin Hawkins, who took his seat in Congress on October A.JCC, 21:1034. 2 For this engagement at Dogger Bank, which actually took place on August 3, 1781, not the 12th, see William M. James, The British Navy in Adversity, (1926; reprint
