October 3, 1781 113 is now a prisoner with the Enemy. We have nothing material from Virginia Since my last. By every Account from New York the British Fleet Suffered greatly in the late Engagement with Count De Grasse. I mentioned to the Superintendant of Finance this morn ing, the affair of Supplies for the ensuing Season, & the necessity of giving timely notice to the States what provisions are to be expected from them, he Says he Shall have an conference with the Board of war upon that Subject to morrow. 2 I Send this by Mr. Webster who is just ready to Set out. I am with the highest respect Your Excellency’s humble Servant, Roger Sherman 3 RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 That is, Benjamin Hawkins. See Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard, this date. 2 This subject was also the subject of the following entry in the official diary of Superintendent Robert Morris for October 4: “Went to the Board of War and had a long Conference with the Honble Mr. Carrol, Mr. Varnum, and Mr Bland upon the reduction of the Army particularly as to the necessity of reducing the number of Officers and after much debate we agreed to form calculations on 30,000 supposing that a requisition of so many from the States would produce 25,000 Effectives.” Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 3:16. 3 This day Sherman also wrote the following brief letter to Connecticut treasurer John Lawrence. “I wrote to you Some time ago requesting you to pay to my wife or her order what was due on my Debenture or Some part of it as my family wanted money. You informed me that no provin[cial] moneies in your hand were appropriated for payment of Civil officers. I have Since wrote to the Governor requesting him to give Special order for the payment of 30 or 40 pounds for the use of my family. I now write to my wife, to apply to you for payment of my former order—and hope you will have Some money that you can apply to that purpose, as it is case of necessity.” Trumbull Papers, Ct. None of the letters mentioned by Sherman in this note have been found. James M. Varnum to Nathanael Greene Sir, Philadelphia 3d Octr. 1781. In the midst of an active Campaign it is difficult to realise Events; But presuming that Fortune will supply the Deficiencies of Re sources, we may suppose that Lord Cornwallis will be Captivated, & the Commander in Chief lay before Charlestown in Course of the approaching Winter. Should that be the Case, you can be recalled, from a fatiguing tho’ glorious Service, to the Head of the War Department. 1 This Department waits for you, but the Belligerent Mars interposes a Frown! In our peaceful Situation, we are awed at the Checks of the controuling God, & confess with him, that Noth- ern Rigor is necessary to invigorate southern Indolence. Burnet fully represents your Intentions; he is an excellent Youth! The Demands will be as fully complied with as Circumstances can admit. I dare not write politically; The great Gulph, North Carolina, lays between us, & it may swallow Sentiments unfitting a British Palate.
