114 October 3, 1781 I have wrote but seldom to you, my dear Friend, but I have amply repaid the Debt by, frequently approaching your dear Caty, in every Strain, my Judgement & Imagination could suggest, to amuse, if not make her happy. She has done me great honor, in continuing the Correspondence. Among many of her very obliging favors, I inclose one sacred Deposit of her Inclosures to me. 2 I hope it will reach you in good Time, & exceed Fruition, by combining, with ineffable Extasy, all the Pleasures of Retrospection and Anticipation. The Sacrifice of domestic Felicity is known only to those who have made it; but the Consciousness of person[al] Virtue, of great Exploits & universal Applause can, in some happy Measure, form a Compensa tion. The Governor of Georgia has wrote to us for Supplies of Arms, Ammunition, Clothing and Money for his Militia. We cannot com ply. 3 Georgia must raise permanent Troops; you must do with them as you can; The old Systems to the Southward must be abolished, & all things become new. Sir Henry Clinton has threatned New Jersey and Pennsylvania for some time; We have formed Militia Camps, and await him. May God almighty keep you in his holy Protection, & restore you covered with unfading Laurels to your former, & present and unchangeable Friends! I have the Honor of being, Sir, With the most unfeigned Friend ship and Esteem, Your Excellency’s most obedient & very humble Servt. J.M. Varnum RC (NNPM: Siege of Yorktown Collection). 1 For Congress’ recent unsuccessful efforts to elect a secretary at war, see Varnum to George Washington, October 2, 1781. 2 Not identified further, but Varnum had written to Catherine Greene on October 2 promising to forward her letters to General Greene. 3 Congress had received Georgia governor Nathan Brownson’s August 28 letter on September 28 and appointed Varnum chairman of the committee to consider the letter. Despite Varnum’s initial negative reaction, arms and ammunition were ordered to Georgia by Congress on December 15. JCC, 21:1021, 1168-70. James Lovell to Abigail Adams Octr. 5. 1781 I doubt not, Madam, you have Letters from Mr Adams of later Date than what we have reed, but that Fact will not prevent your Expectations of Something from me in the Way of retailed Politicks: He has sent as I imagine but few duplicates of what are actually on Board Gillons. He dated May 16 and Augst. 3d from Amsterdam, July 11, 14, 15 from Paris. 1 He thinks Britain altogether insincere as to honorable Peace. He sees in Holland the almost absolute Cer tainty of {no Loan till} 2 our Independence {is} acknowledged by the States Genl., {a distant Period.}
