118 October 9, 1781 Intelligence I beg leave to refer you to the papers which I presume Mr Carroll has sent you, And have the honor to be With much esteem & regard, Yr. Excellencys most hble Sevt, John Hanson RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). James Lovell to Abigail Adams Philada. Octr. 9th [1781] Yesterday’s Post brought me your Favour of Sepr. 26th. 1 Your dear Boy Charles should most certainly have had half of the Bed of one of his Father’s devoted Friends here; if the Winds had so directed the Ship’s Course in which he is a Passenger, but I am told she is arrived at Falmouth in Casco Bay. I wish you an happy Meeting with him. I shall be rejoyced to find that the Voyage has been beneficial to his Constitution. I have already given you the dates of Mr. A’s Letters which came by Newman: vizt. May 16, July 11, 14, 15, Aug. 3d. 2 In the 1st he says “This Country is indeed in a melancholy Situation—sunk in Ease—devoted to the Pursuits of Gain—overshadowed on all sides by more powerful Neighbours—unanimated by a Love of military Glory or any aspiring spirit—feeling little Enthusiasm for the Public—terrified at the Loss of an old Friend—and equally terrified at the Prospect of being obliged to form Connexions with a new one—encumbered with a complicated & perplexed Constitution— divided among themselves in Interest & Sentiment, they seem afraid of every Thing. Success on the Part of France, Spain and especially of America raises their Spirits and advances the Good Cause some what; but Reverses seem to sink them much more.” He adds “The War has occasioned such a Stagnation of Business and thrown such Numbers of People out of Employment that I think it is impossible Things should remain long in the present insipid state. One System or another will be pursued; One Party or another will prevail; much will depend on the Events of the War. We have one Security, and I fear but one; and that is the domineering Character of the English who will make Peace with the Republic upon no other Terms than her joining them against all their Enemies in the War; and This, I think, it is impossible she ever should do.” It is to be hoped that the Events of this Campaign will be such as to influence Holland & even Britain to do us Justice. There has been a most severe Engagement on the 8th of Sepr. in Sth. Carolina. 3 I think I shall be able to send a printed account to
