134 October 14, 1781 where they were bound & that the Confidential Letter had been hidden under a certain large Stone on the Shore by the Officers. A person was sent to the Place & brought it to Congress. It was in Cipher and after some trouble it was discovered to be in three different Cyphers. However it was deciphered by a Mr. Lovell, a Member of Congress from Boston, after about two days’ labor. The original letter was carefully returned to the Stone or some means used so that it finally got to Lord Cornwallis, but not before Count de Grasse’ arrival and having the copy fairly translated. By this means W. was enabled to counteract all their intended measures.” J. J. Boudinot, The Life, Public Services, Addresses, and Letters of Elias Boudinot, 2 vols. (1896; reprint ed., New York: Da Capo Press, 1971), 1:235-36. Thomas McKean to William Heath Sir, (Private) Philadelphia October 15th. 1781. The intelligence you have from time to time communicated to Congress has been very satisfactory, and always corroborated what I had derived thro’ other channels. I am now to inform you of some facts of the utmost importance: however you may be at a loss to account for numbers or circum stances, believe me, they are founded on the best evidence, and perfectly true in all respects. Sir Henry Clinton is ready to sail in person with upwards of five thousand chosen Troops rank & file, on board the British fleet, now consisting of twenty nine Line of battle ships, besides Frigates & ten Fire-Ships. The General & Flag Officers held a Council of war on the 24th September last at New-York, and determined at all hazards to proceed to the Chesapeak and endeavor to relieve Lord Corn wallis, and, tho’ then they had but 26 ships of the Line, to fight the French Fleet and land their Troops; they expected to be ready to sail on the fifth instant, but had not sailed (I believe) on Thursday the 11th. As soon as you have heard of the fleet’s sailing you may depend upon it, there are near six thousand of the best Troops on board, and in consequence there cannot be above four thousand of all sorts remaining in New-York and it’s Environs. These must be scattered on Long-Island, Staaten Island near Kings-bridge, and Paulus Hook. In this situation of affairs would it not be adviseable to think seriously of an Attack on New-York? You may obtain five thousand militia in a few days to co-operate with you. I rest assured you will be in readiness to execute any orders you may receive from the Com mander in Chief on this head. General Washington and Count de Grasse will in a very few days be informed of all these particulars, as I have dispatched Expresses to each by the nearest routs. 1 I have the honor to be, with very great regard, Sir, Your most obedient humble Servant, Tho M: Kean
