136 October 16, 1781 sooner than the return of the Post. The Stage will be an easy Con veyance if you did not leave Princeton on Monday. It is a great addition to the distress of this painfull separation, that Sickness should intervene, when every kind & affectionate expression & attention is so much more necessary than in any other Situation. God grant that you may be perfectly restored to Health with my beloved Daughter, and safe returned to your little, humble Cott. It affords some gleam of Hope, that the Period is no[w] near ap proaching when (God willing) we shall again be united. Could I have been with you, to have soothed your Pains & yielded some Consolation in your distress especially in the lonely hours of Night, it would have given me much Pleasure. My poor Susan too, must have been in some measure distressed by being from Home and without her Papa. It was happy her dear Mother was with her and on this Acct. I am glad you did not stay here. Your not men tioning a Word in either of yours, of the receipt of mine per Post makes me afraid, that it has been carried on to the Ridge, I know nothing of the Bed Cord, but will inquire at Dr. Rush’s, yet I think it was put into the Chair Box. I will send Susan’s Tooth Brushes & Pins. There is no News, but a report, that Cornwallis has sent out Terms of Capitulation, which were refused. This comes from Bal timore, but is not official. We have an Acct, that Tarlton with 600 Horse & Infan[try] made a Sally from Gloucester, when he was charged by Duke De La Luzen’s [Lauzun’s] Legion & some Militia Grenadiers & totally rou[ted] with the Loss of 50 Men, our Loss only 3 killed & 11 Wounded. Our redoubts are formed within the Enemies out Lines and about the 9 or 10 the Genl, broke Ground within 400 Yards of the Enemies Lines of Defence. We expect every Moment, the most important Intelligence. I am my dearest Love with every affectionate wish for your Health & welfare, Your loving & faithfull, B. P.S. My kind Love to Susan—Sister & all Friends. [P.P.S.] This moment an Express from Genl Greene, by whose Let ters the late Victory is confirmed in every part, and it appears to have been the most glorious, that has been obtained this war. RC (NjP: Stimpson-Boudinot Collection).
