October 16, 1781 137 Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My dear Sir Philadelphia Octr. 16th. 1781 Your Favour of the 13 Inst, came safe to hand. As to my Letters of the 2d & 3d being opened, the Truth is, that I sent the one of the 3d with the 2d inclosed to Mr Caldwell under a Flying Seal, that he might see the News—he being then at Princeton, and I expected he would immediately forward it by one of the Members, who lived at the Ridge. No News but what you will see in the Papers except a report that Lord Cornwallis has sent out Terms of Capitulation but was refused. This Instant as I am writing in Congress, an Express from Genl Greene. His Acct, of the late Action at the Eutaw Springs is the most glorious that has happened this War—tho unhappily the most bloody. It is much the same in Substance as you have reed.—you will see the particulars in to morrows Paper. Our Loss is at least 500 in killed, wounded & Missing. We have 500 Prisoners, and the enemy’s Fright was so great, that they filled the Roads near Charles Town with Trees, lest our victorious Army should enter the Town. My poor Wife & Daughter are both sick at Princeton which gives me great uneasiness. The R. is not yet sold. Yesterday 5 Prizes taken by the Fair American arrived; they were taken in sight of Sandy Hook out of the Cork Fleet. We have also an Acct of a Peace made by our People, with the Cherokee Nation. The British fleet are ready to sail from the Hook, with 5000 Troops, to endeavour to relieve Lord Cornwallis—I think they will be too late. Genl. Marian has also had a small Victory over the Enemey pre vious to the grand Battle. I am with great Sincerity, Dr Sir, Yours Afftly, B. RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sr, Pha. Oct 16th. 1781. I wrote to you yesterday by Capn Swan, 1 by whom I sent yr Camblet &ca. for a great Coat. I hope to be able to make out for the trimmings you gave Mr Hanson a memorandum of. I have nothing particular to mention you. Appearances at N. York still continue of the Enemies intention to Sail with their fleet & some troops.
