October 22, 1781 151 Clinton reed a Letter from Cornwallis, dated the 8th intreating for aid & assistance, with the Importunity of a Courtier, but hope he is too late, tho we all know, that the Battle is not allways to the strong nor the Race to the Swift. My Comfort is that the will of God, will certainly be done. As I am & shall be particularly hurried for 2 days to come, I shan’t have time to write to Lewis, let him have this News as soon as you can. Monday Morning 2 —8 oClock. At three oClock this Morning, an Express arrived with the glorious News of the Surrender of Lord Cornwallis with his whole Army. God be praised. It was on Wednes day last. I congratulate you and all our Friends. Yours E B. 3 RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 1 Washington’s October 12 letter was read in Congress on October 22. See JCC, 21:1068; PCC, item 152, 10:265-68; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 23:212— 13. 2 That is, October 22. 3 Boudinot also wrote a letter on October 22 to his daughter, Susan, concerning her health and happiness and informing her that: “We expect the official Confirmation of the glorious News of Cornwallis’s Surrender on the 17th Instt. to morrow, when we are to go in Procession, attended by the Counsel, Assembly, Minister of France &c &c to Church to return publick Thanks to almighty God for his special Favour in the capture of his Lordship & the british Army—after which there will be great doings here.” Stimpson-Boudinot Collection, NjP. Elias Boudinot to William Livingston Philadelphia Octr 21 [22]. 1 1781 8 oClock in the Morning Mr. Boudinot has but a Moment to Congratulate his Friends in Jersey on the surrender of Lord Cornwallis & his whole Army on Wednesday last. This comes by Express from Govr. Lee, who reed, the first intelligence from Count De Grasse. The Govr. will be pleased to let the Stage man carry this on to Eliz. Town. RC (NN: Livingston Papers). In Elias Boudinot’s hand, though not signed. 1 That is, Monday, October 22, for which see the following entry.
