October 23, 1781 > 159 row. 1 The Estimates for the Current Year will be ready in a few days, which we shall forward as soon as may be. Mr. Law arrivd safe on the Morning of the 21st instant. 2 But Nine States are at present represented—it is of much Consequence that a full Representation be Keept up. Inclosed, is a Resolve for a day of Thanksgiving 3 — have not to add but remain Your Excellencys most obedt & very humble Servts, Roger Sherman Rich Law RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Law and signed by Law and Sherman. 1 See Thomas McKean to Charles Thomson, this date. 2 Richard Law took his seat in Congress on October 22. JCC, 21:1068. According to his accounts in the Revolutionary War Collection, Ct, which cleared the Connecticut Pay Table Office October 25, 1782, he subsequently claimed £199.16 (“222 Days . . . at 18/”) for service during his “2d Tour of Philada. from October 13th. 1781 to May 22d. 1782.” 3 Undoubtedly a copy of the September 13 resolution setting December 13 as a day of thanksgiving. The congressional proclamation commemorating this day was not adopted until October 26. See Thomas McKean to the States, October 31, 1781. John Hanson to Philip Thomas Dear Doctr. Philadelphia October 23d. 1781 I thank you for your letter of the 16th and for the information it Contains—it affords me great pleasure to hear that your mother is recovered from her late Illness, that the Dear little ones are well and that you are on the mending hand. You have acted wisely I think in giving up your magestrates Commission. I allways was fearful that the multiplicity of Business you was engaged in was prejudicial to your health and am therefore very glad you have resigned part of it. The British property in Frederick I think is well Sold. I by no means Condem your purchase—it will make you Easy on account of a house to live in for the present and Should you incline to Sell it hereafter it is probable you will not lose by it. I Should have been glad to have purchased one of the Lotts sold to Magruder and Gant but as it would have laid me under the disagree able necessity of asking for Security, and as the payments might perhaps have embarrassed me, I thought it more prudent to de cline, especially too as I thought it would go very high. I have expectations of adding to my land under the Mountain, which a purchase might have prevented however I wrote to you on the Subject Just after my Arrival here, which it Seems you did not receive. Colo Price has been lucky in his purchase which I am very glad off. I wish Mr Harrisons purchase may turn out to his Advan tage. I am afraid the Situation is unhealthy. He has a numerous family and Should it turn out So they must be misserable.
