160 October 23, 1781 I Congratulate you most sincerely on the Surrender of Lord Cornwallis to Gen. Washington, of which most important Event, we have information by a Letter from the Count de Grasse dated the 18th to Governor Lee and by him forwarded to the President of Congress by Express. The particulars we Expect to receive from General Washington in two or three days. The Counts Letter is as follows. “I have Just desired Genral Washington to Send me back my Troops of which probably he will no longer Stand in need as Lord Cornwallis has Surrended, as soon as they are embarked I shall quit the Bay of Chesapeake, And endeavour still to Cooperate to the welfare of the united States in stopping If I can Sir Henry Clinton.” The British fleet sailed from the Hook on the 19th in the evening, And as the winds have been unfavourable for them it is probable the Count will get out before they make our Capes, And as his force is greatly Superior to the British Should they Come to blows the most favourable Issue for us may be expected. The Capture of Cornwallis with the great number of Vessels and the large quantity of British and West India Goods, Arms &c that must have fallen into hands, is a most Capital Stroke and will tend more towards obtaining peace and to the security of our Independance than the best managed negotiations. I was ever of Opinion, that no depredations upon the trade of the English, no Conquests of their possessions in the East and West Indias, will induce them to make peace, while they have An Army in the united states, And Can flatter themselves, with the hopes of Conquering or regaining America, because it is probable they think that with America under their Government, they Can Easily regain whatever they may loose now in any part of the world, whereas the total expulsion or Captivity of their forces in the united states would extinguish their hopes and dispose them to peace Sooner than Any thing Else. My Compliments to Mr Johnsons, Potts’s &c &c. Yrs, J H RC (MdHi: Hanson Letters). Thomas McKean to Charles Thomson Sir, Philadelphia. October 23d. 1781 I must beg you to remind Congress, that, when they did me the honor of electing me President and before I assumed the Chair, I informed them that as Chief-Justice of Pennsylvania I should be under the necessity of attending the Supreme Court of that State the latter end of September or at farthest in October. That Court will be
