164 October 24, 1781 there a solitary Gun. On the lit Instt the 2d Paralell was opened and the Enemies fire renewed with severity all Night. On the 14t we were ordered to storm two redoubts that were rather disagreeable to us & prejudicial to the finishing our paralell. That true friend of America the Marquiss La Fayette, with the american light Infantry were ordered to the redoubt on the River to our right. The Baron de Vomenil with a detachmt of the allied Troops to the Redout on the left. The Assaults commenced almost at the same Moment, and were conducted & executed with the true spirit & Judgment of Officers & Men who fought in the Cause of human Nature. Both redoubts were carried in Ten Minutes with very little Loss. This Success was heightened by the true bravery displayed by the Troops of both nations, disarming themselves of resentmt., and giving Quarters to the abject Brittons on their Knees begging for Mercy. This conduct contrasted with English humanity displayed at Groton, must stamp their Character (if possible) with a still deeper dye. Our second Paralell was immediately finished and these re doubts included in our Line. On the 15t some new Batteries were opened, on which the Enemy made a Sally—Abbercromby Com manded. They pushed into the Trenches, between two unfinished Batteries, where the Line was thin and passed to the Guns, which they spiked. But it was no sooner known among the French Troops (in whose quarter it happened) than they were forced by the Bayo net, to return to their Cells with considerable Loss. In less than 6 hours the whole was again repaired, and the same Guns on the 16t served to Chastise them for their temerity. On the 17 in the Morn ing, several heavy Batteries of Cannon & Morters were opened with a most tremendous roar, and the devoted Town felt the destructive Effects of it. His Lordship now thought it high Time to submit & sue for Peace on any Terms. Both Armies have enjoyed great Health & unanimity. My kind Love to Mrs. P and all Friends. Do send this to Elisha. Am Yours affectly, B. RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). 1 A brief announcement of “Cornwallis’s surrender” was printed in this day’s issue of the Pennsylvania Gazette, but Washington’s official communications did not reach the public until the October 25 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet appeared. 2 Boudinot received these particulars as a member of the committee appointed this day to examine the articles of capitulation and interview the bearer, Lt. Col. Tench Tilghman of Washington’s staff. The committee’s report and the long list of honors recommended for participants in the battle reflected the exultation of the delegates. Only the South Carolina delegates—particularly Arthur Middleton—did not rejoice in the terms of the capitu lation. According to Boudinot and Tilghman, the South Carolinians wanted the British officers held for retaliation for British “cruelties” during the Carolina cam paign. In fact Middleton made an unsuccessful motion in Congress on October 25 that Lord Cornwallis and the other captured officers be detained “till the further
