October 27, 1781 165 order of Congress.” See JCC, 21:1071—74, 1079—83; Tilghman to George Washing ton, October 27, 1781, Washington Papers, DLC; and Elias Boudinot. Journal or Historical Recollections of American Events during the Revolutionary War (Philadelphia: Frederick Bourquin, 1894), p. 59. See also South Carolina Delegates to Charles Pinckney, January 15, 1782. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia Octr. 25th, 1781. We have the honor now to transmit to Your Excellency An official Account of the Surrender of Lord Cornwallis and the Army under his Command. The dispatches from General Washington were re ceived yesterday morning, and at two O’Clock in the afternoon Congress went in a body to the Lutheran Church, where Divine Service (Suitable to the Occasion) was performed, by the Reverend Mr. Duffield one of the Chaplains of Congress. The Supreme Exec utive Council & Assembly of this State, The Minister of France & his Secretary and a great number of the Citizens Attended. In the Evening the City was Illuminated. This great Event we hope will prove a happy presage of a Compleat Reduction of the British forces in these States, and prepare the way for the Establishment of an honorable Peace. 1 We mentioned in our last that Mr. McKean had resigned the Chair. He was by a Unanimous Vote yesterday morning requested to resume it, and Act as President until the first Monday in Novr. next, which he has accepted. 2 We have the honor to be, with the highest Respect, Your Excel lency’s Most Obedient & very humble Servants, Roger Sherman Richard Law RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Sherman and signed by Sherman and Law. 1 An account of the victory celebration in Philadelphia appeared in the November 1 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet. 2 JCC, 21:1071. John Hanson to Philip Thomas Dear Doctr. Philadelphia Octo. 27th 1781 I wrote you by the post last Tuesday 1 and inclosed the papers and a letter to Mrs. Hanson which I hope will be received. I gladly embrace the present Opportunity by Mr. Peter Adams to inclose you the last papers Containing Lord Cornwallis’s Capitulation which I dare Say you And every friend to the American Cause will highly
