176 October 31, 1781 earliest opportunity of transmitting to you and the Honorable House. We are likewise in hourly expectation of hearing of some thing decisive between the Count DeGrasse, and the British Fleet under the Command of Admiral Graves, which when we receive, shall take the earliest opportunity after of transmiting the intel ligence to you &c. Should anything particular happen in Congress as to our state, it will by the Delegation, be immediately communicated to you. I am with due respect Dr. Sir Your Very Hble Servt. N W Jones RC (PHi: Society Collection). In a clerical hand, but signed by Jones. 1 John Jones had been elected speaker of the lower house of the Georgia Assembly on August 17, 1781, for which see Georgia Delegates to the Speaker, July 18, 1781, note 1. 2 Undated, but undoubtedly written in the closing days of October or early Novem ber 1781. Thomas McKean to Nathanael Greene Sir Philadelphia, November 2d. 1781. I had the honor to receive your dispatches of the 1st, 2d, 3d, 5th & 11th Septr. by Captain Pierce and to lay them before Congress on the 18th last, being the day on which they came to hand. 1 You will receive inclosed herewith the copy of an Act of Congress of the 29th last month respecting the Battle at the Eutaw Springs in South Carolina, 2 and also a Proclamation recommending the thir teenth day of December next to be observed as a Day of Thanksgiv ing and Prayer throughout the United States. In obedience to the former I am happy in having another oppor tunity of testifying the high sense that Congress entertain of the services you have rendered your Country, particularly in the well fought Battle of the eighth day of September last. I am to present to you, Sir, and do hereby most cheerfully present you the Thanks of the United States of America in Congress assem bled for your wise, decisive and magnanimous conduct in the Action of the eighth of September last near the Eutaw Springs in South Carolina, in which with a force inferior in number to that of the Enemy you obtained a most signal victory. Accept also my congratulations on the conquest of the Garrisons of York & Gloucester under the command of Lieutenant General Earl Cornwallis, who on the 19th of October last surrendered Pris-
