178 November 5, 1781 Embarrassed on this Occasion, I was preparing to return home, having had no Idea of remaining here longer than this day, being the Terms on which I first accepted the Appointment. Indeed had this not been the Case, the exhausted State of my Finances and the derangement of my Family Affairs would oblige me to return. The monstrous Expence attending a residence in this City, must soon take away the Ready Cash of any fortune among us. However as there were only Mr Clark & myself here, and our Presence abso lutely necessary to form a Congress in this important Conjuncture, We took our Seats this Day and have proceeded to the Choice of a President, Mr Hanson of Maryland. I shall Continue here this Week, in hopes that your honorable Houses will urge the attendance of one of the other Gentn. by that Time. I shall do myself the honor of calling on you next week, as I have some matters of great Impor tance I would willingly communicate to the Legislature before my Return Home. Never was there Time which required a full repre sentation of the States more than the present as Matters of the utmost future Consequence to this rising Empire, are & must be the Subjects of constant discussion. Not being able to command the Acts of Assembly, we cannot determine, if a renewal of the usual Oaths are essentially necessary to our representation. We therefore must beg advice on this Subject, we shall continue our Seats till the Return of the Post, as our return to Jersey for that Purpose at present, would prevent the whole Business of the united States at a season too critical to admit of such a delay, as the Estimates of the ensuing Campaign on hand & must be immediately compleated. 2 Mr. Clark intended joining me in this Letter but the Opportunity cannot wait my seeing him. FC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). In the hand of Elias Boudinot. Endorsed by Boudinot: “To Vice-Presid John Stevens Esqr Novr 5 1781.” 1 For these credentials, certifying the election of Boudinot, Abraham Clark, Silas Condict, Jonathan Elmer, and William Churchill Houston to represent New Jersey the ensuing year, and presented at the convening of the new Congress this day, see JCC, 21:1099, 1102. 2 Boudinot’s departure at the end of the week nevertheless deprived New Jersey of its vote in Congress until the arrival of William Churchill Houston on November 28. JCC, 21:1110, 1142. Charles Thomson to the States Secretary’s Office Sir (Circular) Monday Novr 5h 1781. I have the honor to inform you that this day pursuant to the Articles of Confederation, the United States in Congress Assembled
