November 6, 1781 179 proceeded to the Choice of a President and have Elected for the Ensuing Year his Excellency John Hanson. 1 I have the honor to be, Sir, Your most obedt humble servt, C. T LB (DNA: PCC, item 18). In addition to the executives of the states, this letter was also sent to General Washington and Secretary Robert R. Livingston, and probably to the heads of the other executive departments. Washington Papers, DLC; and PCC, item 119, fol. 11. i JCC, 21:1100. With his journal entry for this date, the day the first new Congress after the ratification of the Articles of Confederation convened, Secretary Charles Thomson initiated a new practice in recording the proceedings of Congress. Hereafter he no longer entered in the journals committee appointments, the receipt of letters, or the fact of adjournment. For the former purpose he opened a new Committee Book, in which he recorded the composition of committees and their purpose, generally adding thereafter information on when reports were submitted or recommitted. For the receipt and disposition of letters, the researcher must hereafter rely upon Thom son’s Despatch Books, which he had begun keeping in 1779, or his endorsements on letters located in PCC, which can be found readily in the Index, The Papers of the Continental Congress compiled by John P. Butler in 5 volumes (Washington: Govern ment Printing Office, 1978). The following example illustrates the change dramatically. Although his journal entry for November 6, 1781, states only that “Sundry committees were appointed,” Thomson’s Committee Book records the following information on the appointment of four committees this day: “Mr Lovell, Mr T. Smith, Mr Bee. On a petition of John Clark respecting claims against the United States, reported 9. Mr Randolph, Mr Boudinot, Mr Carroll. To prepare the form of notice to be given to the legislative or executive authority of the State of Connecticut on the petition from the supr. Ex. Council of Pensyl, respecting a dispute between the two States, reported 7th. Mr Randolph, Mr Lovell, Mr Mathews. Comee. on the proposed convention between France & the United States respecting Consular powers. Reported 20 Nov, 22 Jany. Mr Montgomery, Mr Osgood, Mr Randolph. On a letter from the Super, finance respectg the president household. Reported 16th.” PCC, item 186, fol. 3. The Des patch Books are in PCC, item 185. Elias Boudinot to Hannah Boudinot My dearest Love, Philadelphia Novr 6 1781 Your kind & Affectionate Letter made me glad to see the Return of Monday Morning. The New Congress has sat, and as they could not make a House without me, I was obliged to accept the new delegation & take my Seat. This has greatly embarrassed me. I have wrote to get some Person to take my Place, 1 as I am determined to leave this on Monday, and yet if no one comes, Congress must break up, on my leaving this. I know not what to do. My family I must & will see. I write all the News to Susan, 2 so I have none to tell you. I expect Mr P. to Morrow, 3 when I shall rejoice to hear from you. I hope you have sent my Suit out, and some worsted Stockings. I have suffered much
