November 13, 1781 jgj will, no doubt, fill the most brilliant pages in the history of America. May Heaven still continue to smile on our efforts! With the highest sentiments of respect & esteem, believe me to be, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedient & very humble Servt. John Hanson Presdt. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Hanson. 1 This resolution declared “That an elegant sword be presented” to Lt. Col. David Humphreys, the aide Washington had selected to deliver his official despatches to Congress announcing Cornwallis’ surrender at Yorktown. JCC, 21:1108. Hanson also enclosed a copy of the resolution with a brief letter of this date to Humphreys expressing “the high opinion [Congress] entertain of your ability and integrity” PCC item 16, fol. 121. 8 ? ’ 2 For these letters, enclosing returns of men and equipment captured by the allies at Yorktown and a request from Gen. Louis Le Begue Duportail for leave to return to France, see JCC, 21:1099; PCC, item 152, 10:309-73; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 23:294-99, 307-8. S John Hanson to Philip Thomas Dear Doctr. Philadelphia Nov. 13th 1781 I was greatly disappointed in not receiveing a letter from you by the post. I wrote you by the last post from home and Should have been very glad to have Known you had received it. The load of Business which I have very unwillingly And very imprudently taken on me I am afraid will be more than my Constitution will be Able to bear. And the form and Ceremony necessary to be observed by a President of Congress is to me Extreamly irksome, moreover I find my health declining and the Situation of my family requires my being at home. I Shall therefore take the first opportunity of ap plying for leave of Absence 1 —this to yourself. The British fleet is returned to the Hook, and Transports have been Sent down from New York to take off their Troops—it is probable the fleet will return to the West Indias. We have no Certain Accounts of the French fleet having yet left our Bay. I hope this will find you and the Children well who I long to see. RC (MdHi: Hanson Letters). In Hanson’s hand, though not signed. 1 Although Hanson found the duties of president “irksome” and considered re signing, he was convinced by fellow delegates that Congress would have difficulty selecting a replacement with only seven states represented and therefore chose to continue. See Hanson to Jane Hanson, November 16, 1781; and Bio. Did. of Md. Legis., 1:405-6. For an account of Hanson’s career in Maryland and in Congress, see Ralph B. Levering, “John Hanson, Public Servant,” Maryland Historical Magazine 71 (Summer 1976): 113-32.
