192 November 13, 1781 John Hanson to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia, 13th Nov. 1781. I take the liberty of transmitting to your Excellency a copy of a letter just received from Genl. Heath, to prevent as much as possible the evil consequences that might result from an interruption or delay in the usual Channel of your intelligence. 1 I have the honor to be, Sir, with great respect, Your Excellency’s Obedient & very humble Servt. John Hanson Prest. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Hanson. 1 William Heath’s November 8 letter to Washington, reporting his surmise that the British fleet, which had recently returned to New York, would soon sail for the West Indies and that Col. Marinus Willett had recently defeated a party of loyalists and Indians on the New York frontier, is in the Washington Papers, DLC. Benjamin Hawkins to Henry Knox Sir Philadelphia Novr. 13th 1781 I have a draught on you, from the board of War for one thousand muskets; for the Use of the State of North Carolina. 1 I shall send it on within the present week, the Uncertainty of this finding you, as soon as I wish, prevents my sending it now. I beg the favour of you to inform Governor Martin of North Carolina, or Colonel Long Deputy Quartermaster General at Hal ifax where they may send for the Arms as soon as they have the orders so to do. Pray do me the honor, to inform me where I shall write to you, excuse the trouble I am Giving you in this, and believe me to be, with the highest sentiments of regard, Sir, your obedient, humble servant. Benjamin Hawkins RC (MeHi: Fogg Collection). 1 Apparently a draft for the 1,000 arms originally intended for North Carolina, pursuant to a congressional resolution of April 26, that were diverted on August 31 to the use of the American army then marching south to Yorktown. See William Sharpe to Washington, September 1, 1781, note 1. It is clear from a draft motion in PCC, which Gaillard Hunt inserted in the printed journals for November 20, that Hawkins made a second request for an additional 1,000 muskets taken from the British at Yorktown “which together with the order given for the like number by the board on General Knox” would complete the two thousand arms authorized for North Carolina on April 26. This motion was also referred to the board of war. Newly-appointed Secretary at War Benjamin Lincoln reported favorably on Decem ber 3 and Congress directed him to honor the state’s request. See JCC, 20:450, 21:1126, 1150; and PCC, item 36, 1:235-38, item 149, 1:9-13.
