November 13, 1781 193 Samuel Livermore to Meshech Weare Dear Sir, Philadelphia Nov. 13th 1781 I reed, your friendly letter of the 30th ulto. It gave me pleasure and surprize to find how soon you got the good news of the taking Ld. Cornwallis. I suppose my letters, news papers &ca coming to hand long after must have been like a last years Almanack, however they might help you to some particulars. I am still in the dark about Vermont, and impatient to hear their determination about complying with the resolution of congress. Their allowing you to hold the Supr. Court in the county of Chesh ire in Octo, with other circumstances which I reed, in a letter from Newhampshire I thought looked like giving up the east of the river; but I see by the News-paper they are demanding taxes of above fifty of our towns in Cheshire & Grafton. And a flying rumour is here that they have chosen a Governour east of Connecticut river. 1 No one has sent me your new plan of govmt. and I hear nothing about it whether it is received or not. 2 In my last vizt. Nov. 6th I dwelt pretty largely upon the subject of our being over rated in the genl tax for the year ’82, which prevented my saying any thing upon the tax in general: For which reason give me leave to make a few observations here. In the first place it was thought necessary to raise the sum of 8 million dollers for the year 1782. Perhaps the large debt we are in, and the interest we must annually pay, might influence the minds of some to raise so heavy a tax. Others perhaps think it best to demand a large sum to gain a small one: and that there is more room for those that choose to be deficient, & to pay nothing, when a redun dancy is required. But to come nearer the point, can the united states pay 8 million? This question will be answered by another, viz, can N. Hampshire pay her quota of it, properly adjusted? Not in hard mony I suppose. Yet her utmost power has never been tryd, perhaps she can do more than we imagine. I allow her proportion rightly adjusted is 300,000 dollers, that is 5,000 yoke of oxen at 60 dollers a yoke. We can pay that. Nay we can make the oxen pay it, & not pay a shilling out ourselves. This would be financiering with a witness. I suppose a yoke of oxen to every three men, which wd. no doubt amount to 5,000 yoke. But you will say it is silver & not oxen that is demanded, true: but the art required is to turn these oxen of N.H., the cloathing, the flour, the forrage, the horses & waggons &ca &ca, of other states into cash, or which is the same thing, to receive them specifically for the publick use. This we trust the great abilitys of our Financier to bring about. Your &c. Sam Livermore [P.S.] Let no one think that I consider oxen as the only sorce of wealth in Newhampshire, far from it, I know we have horses and
