November 13, 1781 195 the Country was entrusted to him? His having baffled and finally reduced to the defensive so powerful an army as we now know he had to contend with, and with so disproportionate a force, would have done honor to the most veteran officer and, added to his other merits and services, constitute a claim on their gratitude which I hope will not be unattended to. I am Dr. Sir, Yrs. Sincerely, J. Madison Junr. [P.S.] A series of intercepted letters from Mr. Deane to his corre spondents in America have been lately published in New York. 3 The object of all of them, with degrees varying from cautious insin uation to direct advice, is to bring America back to a dependence on Britain modified according to the terms proposed by the Commis sioners in 1778. The genuineness of some of these letters is upon good grounds questioned, but most of them contain marks of au thenticity which clearly denounce him to be an apostate, and con sign his character to the same infamy with that of his friend Arnold. This sentence is delivered here against him with the less hesitation because a prior & indubitable evidence of his degeneracy had been received through another channel. Whether this defection has pro ceeded, from a mercenary contract with the enemy, from a view of obtaining such an one, or from a chagrin at the obstacl[es] which his Country has by a total prohibition of intercou[rse] with the enemy opposed to the commercial projects he went to Europe to execute is as yet matter of speculation. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:301-3. 1 Not found. 2 See Edmund Randolph to Thomas Nelson, November 7, 1781, note 4. 3 Silas Deane had returned to France in July 1780, ostensibly to collect documents required for the settlement of his Continental accounts, which he had had difficulty defending and explaining to Congress, but was apparently unable to improve his case and prospects for obtaining a satisfactory settlement. Undoubtedly worn down by his long struggle with opponents such as Arthur Lee who had charged him with the misuse of public funds, Deane had opened negotiations with the North ministry sometime early in 1781, apparently offering his services to promote reconciliation and the return of one of the colonies to its former allegiance. George III was intrigued at the prospect and indicated willingness to pursue the scheme, assuring Lord North that Deane would be suitably rewarded, but the plan was eventually dropped. Instead of returning to America on such a mission, Deane wrote a series of letters addressed to various American friends and associates urging reunion with Britain, which he sent to London for approval. Although North feared that they would not have the desired effect, because “written with so much zeal for a reconcilia tion” and having “too much the air of being written in concert with this country,” he nevertheless sent the originals to Sir Henry Clinton at New York with instructions for their publication, and they began appearing in the October 24, 1781, issue of James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette, described as from “a Rebel Mail lately intercepted in Europe.” Eleven letters—to William Duer, Robert Morris, Jeremiah Wadsworth, Samuel H. Parsons, Charles Thomson, Simeon Deane, Thomas Mumford, James Wilson, Benjamin Harrison, Jesse Root, and Benjamin Tallmadge—were eventually
