November 16, 1781 201 ing Another, (for a Difficulty there would be as the votes of Seven States are necessary and only Seven States are at present repre sented) I Shall Continue, unless the assembly of our State Should leave me out of their Delegation. 2 I therefore hope you will imme diately prepare to Come up, if your State of health will permit it. I have got a very good match for my Horse, And Shall Send them down about the 25th of this month. I flatter my self the Doct 3 will be Kind Enough to let you have his Carriage And attend you up, if his health and Business will permit him. You will have very little trouble in Houskeeping, a Steward, a House Keeper, And necessary Ser vants Are found as are also a Coach and Horses—must beg you will loose no time in getting ready to set off by the first week in next month unless you Should hear of my being left out of the Delega tion. Shall be obliged to the Doct. for as much money if you have it not, as will bear the Expences up, ten or £15 will be Sufficient. Pray let me hear from you as soon as possible. God bless you All. [T.S.] Shew this to the Doct. I write in a very great haste. My Compliments to Mrs. Young whose Kindness I Shall never forget And also to Mrs. Price. RC (MdHi: Hanson Letters). In Hanson’s hand, though not signed. 1 Not found. 2 See Hanson to Philip Thomas, November 13, 1781, note. 3 That is, Hanson’s son-in-law, Dr. Philip Thomas. John Hanson to Philip Thomas Dear Doct. Philadelphia November 16th 1781 My last was of the 13th. No intelligence here worth Communi cating—refer you to your Mothers Letter. Have inclosed you the last paper. My love to the Dear little Children whom I long to See. Will Send Nelsons hat by the first Opportunity. Hope to See you here— are any of the prisoners Arrived at Frederick? It is reported to day that Arnold is taken. I dont believe it. One Moody A Spy was taken up here last Thursday Week, was tryed by a Court Marshall on Saturday, And was hang’d a Tuesday, another was also taken up at the same time, And Condemned, but his Execution is respited till the 23d in hopes of getting Something out of him. They Were to have Robed the Secretary’s of Congress Office of the Box of Secret papers, they were Sent on this Business by Arnold, and was to have had 1000 Guineas. Eddison who formaly lived with Colo. J. Johnson was also imployed by Arnold and discoverd the plot. He engaged in
