November 17, 1781 203 Benjamin Hawkins to Abner Nash Dear Sir, Philadelphia, the 17th Novr. 1781 I enclose you the memorial presented by Mr. Adams to their High Mightinesses—the effect it has had, or the reasons for publishing it, we know not. 1 I expect Britain is by this seriously inclined to make peace, and from her situation will be compelled to make an equitable and honorable one for us, her efforts have been greater this year than ever before, twenty one millions and one third were raised for the service of the present year, Notwithstand which her navy, (the grand bulwark of the Nation,) hath been disgraced in every quarter, and her armies in america and the two Indies shareing the same fate— particularly the boasted conquering one in the former in a most eminent degree. The troops at New York are much dispirited, and it is believed that if the United States would offer a general pardon to the refugees, a large majority would return from the enemy, some of the officers have expressed as much to our officers who have lately left there. New Jersey has this matter under contemplation, and I believe some other States. Congress have been lately much embarrassed, but they are emergeing very fast, all their departments move now methodically, They have appointed a Superintendant of Finance (Robert Morris) secretary of foreign affairs (Robt. R. Livingston) and Secretary of War Majr. Genl. Lincoln. The abilities of these gentlemen being equal to the importance of their respective offices is productive of the happyest consequences for the United States. The French prove extreme friendly to us, exclusive of the assis tance rendered by their fleet, (the importance of which ought to be remembered by the Southern States and greatfully acknowledged) a great part of the promised subsidy or loan, is already arrived in specie, military stors and Cloathing, so that we have a sufficiency of the latter for our army the ensuing year. The original cover of the enclosed letters from Mr. Whiting, being in my possession broke and damaged, I took the liberty of taking it off. You will please to make my compliments to Your Lady, Mr. & Mrs. Ellis and believe me to be with sentiments of the highest reguard, Dear Sir, Your humble servt. Benjamin Hawkins [P.S.] No 1 & 2 of the continuation of the Abbe Raynals Revolution of america, and the remainder of that work I will send you with my next. 2 I wish you, and some gentleman of abilities equal with yours, would consent to come on and represent our state, you would be
