210 November 21, 1781 1 For the Pennsylvania Councils’ petition requesting a hearing respecting Connect icut’s claims in the Wyoming Valley, see Richard Law to Trumbull, November 6, 1781, note 2 Thomson also sent a copy of this “notice” to Pennsylvania Council president William Moore this date. See JCC, 21:1115-16; PCC, item 18, fol. 16; and Pa. Archives, 1st sen, 9:448. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. gj r Philadelphia Nov 23d. 1781. We are honored with your Favour of the 8th instant per Brown; Mr Wolcott arrived here the 14th. There are now nine States repre sented in Congress. In the Arrangment of the Treasury Department it is provided that the Financier recommend the Number of Audi tors requisite—which he has not yet done, but as soon as he makes Report on that head—they will be appointed—and doubt not it will be thought necessary they repair to the respective States to liquidate their Accts. The Requisition for Supplies, is forwarded by The Financier with his Letter thereon. 1 Tho’ our Succesies have been truly glorious & important, the present Year, Yet it is of the utmost Consequence that we suffer them not to Slacken our Exertions, in making preparations for the in suing Campaign—as that alone will put us on a respectable footing either for Negotiation or War. Congress have a Comtee now out upon the Subject of what number of Troops is necessary, & appor tioning the Quota of each State. 2 The French Fleet it is sayd left the Bay about the 6th instant destined it is conjecturd for the west Indies, and the Troops belonging to the eastern States, are on their Rout back to the North River. Whatever is Official is or will be Duly transmitted to your Excellency, from the respective Offices—have not to add but remain with the highest Sentiments of Esteem & Respect Your Excellencys most Obedt., humble Servts, Rich Law Oliver Wolcott RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Richard Law, and signed by Law and Wolcott. 1 Robert Morris’ November 17 circular letter to the states is in Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 3:201-2. 2 For the work of this committee, which submitted its report on 1782 troop quotas on December 10, see Committee of Congress to Washington, November 28, 1781.
