November 30, 1781 219 I find by a Letter of Sepr. 13th from Doctr. Franklin 3 that Mr. Adams had received our Proceedings of June before the Doctor’s Communication of them: I mean those Proceedings to which you refer in yr. Letter now before me. I wish much to learn the Effect upon his Philosopy. I feel Satisfaction in thinking him a much calmer Man than myself. Whatever he determines will be well weighed. He is practised in sacrificing his personal Feelings & Interest to his Country. I have received some Gazettes from him without a Line of Epistle. This is not the only Reason I have for thinking that my Letters Via France do not reach his Eye. I hope you are not very ill. You are surely not very well. Yr. m h Servant, JL RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 4:245-46. 1 Lovell had also written a brief letter to Abigail on November 26, explaining that he was about to dispatch some boxes containing “those Articles of yours which have been long under my Care” via a wagon of Gen. Benjamin Lincoln destined for Boston, to which he added a postscript on December 2 reporting that “The Goods are gone.” Ibid., p. 245. 2 Apparently a reference to Abigail’s letter of September 20 in which she had requested news about her husband John. Ibid., pp. 215-16. 3 Benjamin Franklin’s September 13 letter to Pres. Samuel Huntington is in PCC, item 82, 2:15-18. James Lovell to John Adams Dear Sir Novr. 30th. [1781] I have not to this day Information that you comprehend the Cypher wch. I have very often used in my Letters. You certainly can recollect the Name of that Family where you and I spent our last Evening with your Lady before we sat out on our Journey hither. 1 Make regular Alphabets in Number equal to the first Sixth Part of that Family Name, beginning and regularity placing your Alphabets according to the Letters and the Arrangment of them in that Sixth. Then look alternately into those Alphabets, & opposite to my Figure you will find your proper Elements for spelling. 2 Most affectionately Yours, James Lovell RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 Lovell had repeatedly used a polyalphabetic cipher based on the key word Cranch in his correspondence with Adams, for which see these Leiters, 7:291-92, 15:79-80. 2 A slightly revised version of this letter was also sent to Adams on December 26, 1781, by the secretary for foreign affairs, Robert R. Livingston, who, similarly concerned with the difficulties Adams had experienced decoding cipher letters, had asked for Lovell’s assistance. Two copies of the December 26 text, in the hand of Livingston’s secretary Lewis R. Morris, are in the Adams Papers, MHi.
