220 November 30, 1781 Massachusetts Delegates to William Heath Dear Sir. Philadelphia Novr. 30th. 1781 Your Favor of the 12th Instant, addressd to the Delegates of Massachusetts, was duely received. 1 We are sensible that the Masstts. Line have a Right to the Promo tion which you mention; & an Attempt was made, some Time since, but faild of Success. General Lincoln having accepted the Appointment of Secretary of War; no Promotions can be effected but thro him. And as he is fully acquainted with the particular Matter, about which you have wrote to us, we flatter ourselves, that he will give it that Attention which it merits. As the Commander in Chief is now in the City, & a Committee of Congress are appointed to confer with him upon several Subjects, the Promotion due to the Massachusetts Line, will be particularly attended to by the Delegates of that State. I am, Sir, with Sentiments of the highest Esteem, Your most obe dient Servant, Samuel Osgood In Behalf of the Delegates RC (MHi: Heath Papers). Written and signed by Samuel Osgood. Addressed: “The Honorable Major General Heath commanding the Forces of the united States at West Point &ca, State of New York.” 1 In his November 12 letter Heath had asked the Massachusetts delegates to support the promotion of an unnamed colonel who was commanding a brigade in the Massachusetts Line—a position usually held by a brigadier general. Heath Papers, MHi. The subject of Heath’s letter was probably Col. John Greaton, who commanded the Third Brigade in the Massachusetts Line and who was not promoted to brigadier general until January 1783. See JCC, 23:790-91, 24:38; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 24:355, 25:85, 26:35—36. John Hanson to the States Sir, Circular. Philadelphia, 31st. Nov. 1781. 1 Your Excellency will receive enclosed herewith a copy of an Act of Congress of the 23d instant, respecting infractions of the Laws of Nations and the erection of proper tribunals for punishing them. 2 Such is the importance of the objects recommended in that Act, and so obvious is the necessity for some regulations respecting them, that I feel satisfied they will engage the immediate attention of your Excellency and the Legislature of your State. I have the honor to be &c. J. H. 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 This letterbook copy and the RCs located in the archives of Connecticut, Dela-
