222 November, 1781 4 Middleton’s November 16 motion to direct Washington to relieve the southern states or to detach reinforcements to allow Nathanael Greene to expel “the enemy from thence during the ensuing winter” had been defeated. JCC, 21:1118-19. In the meantime, however, Washington had already directed Maj. Gen. Arthur St. Clair and a detachment of Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia Continentals to join Greene “in the most expeditious manner” possible, for which see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 23:292-93. After learning of Washington’s directive. Middleton also drafted the following brief notes for a letter to Greene: “The reinforcement with Gen. Sinclair will put you above par; if it should not the Consequence will be terrible. Our people and property must feel the balefull Effects of a languid & ineffectual opposition. We are sensible of this & shall therefore strain every nerve to send you on additional succours. When or how It is impossible at present to say. Something it is clear must be done, unless the Enemy Evacuate which does not seem likely just now.” Middleton Papers, ScHi. 5 Thus in FC. Charles Thomson to Benjamin Lincoln Sir, Secy’s Office Novr. 1781 1 I have it in charge to furnish you with the Enclosed resolution directing two standards to be presented to the Commander in chief, and to inform you that it is the Pleasure of Congress that you carry the same into Execution. I cannot forbear congratulating you on the pleasure you must enjoy in Executing so agreeable a commission & am confident You will do it in such a manner as will convey to the world as well as to his Excellency the Commander in chief that dignity and value which it is the wish of Congress should be considered as annexed to this present. I have the honor to be &c &c, C T LB (DNA: PCC, item 18). 1 The precise date of this letter can only be conjectured. It is entered in Thomson’s letterbook between letters dated November 21, 1781, and February 21, 1782. The resolution herewith enclosed was adopted on October 29; Secretary Lincoln did not actually carry out the presentation ordered, honoring Washington for his role in the capture of Cornwallis at Yorktown, until December 28. See JCC, 21:1081; and Wash ington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 23:414. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir, Philada. 1 December 1781. Before I left Trenton was informed that a Bill for regulating Admiralty-jurisdiction was before the Legislature. As an Ordinance on that Subject is now in Congress and in Forwardness to be passed
