December 3, 1781 223 upon for Adoption or Rejection, I think it would be prudent to suffer the Bill to rest a little Time, that a Conformity may be ob served between them. 1 I cannot form a distinct Opinion whether the Whole or any Part will be agreed to, but in either Case, or if the Draught be postponed and laid by, I will take Care to advise you seasonably, that the Laws may notwithstanding be enacted during the Sitting. Permit me to take Advantage of this Occasion to observe, that it would be very useful to the Delegates to have the Titles and Object of the several Bills from Time to Time before the Houses, sent to them, that they might communicate what would be necessary and proper respecting the Proceedings of Congress. The Delegates on the other Hand ought to communicate the Heads of all Ordinances and Resolutions before Congress, except such as the Confederation call secret Matters. For this and other beneficial Purposes a Com mittee of Correspondence with the Delegates would be desirable, and the latter ought to be obliged to write by every Post. I am, Sir, your obedt Servant. W. C. Houston RC (NN: Livingston Papers). Addressed: “His Excy the President of the Council or The Honble the Speaker of the House of Assembly, at Trenton.” 1 For the new ordinance “ascertaining what captures on water shall be lawful” adopted by Congress on December 4, see JCC, 21:1152-58; Henry J. Bourguignon, The First Federal Court: The Federal Appellate Prize Court of the American Revolution, 1775- 1787, Memoirs of the American Philosophical Society 122 (1977): 130-31; and John Hanson to the States, January 6, 1782, note. William Floyd to George Clinton Sir Philadelphia December 3d. 1781. I have been here about ten days but am not able to give a Vote in Congress as my Colegue is not yet arrived, 1 Several States being un Represented as well as ours, which make a very thin house and Difficult to Do Business as Every Question Requires Seven States to agree to it before it can pass. I have not got the key to the Box which Contain all the papers which belong to our State here. Mr. Lhommedieu informed me that Mr Duane Intended to leave it with your Excellency. 2 I hope Mr. Scott will bring it on with him if he Comes, if he does not, I hope another of my Colegues will come on as Soon as possible, for it is very Disagreable for me to be attending here without being able to give a Vote on Interesting Questions. I would therefore beg that you would urge the Attendance of Some one or other of them.
