December 4, 1781 231 Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison S r - Philaa. 4th Deer. 1781 Relying on the assurances given by your Excellency, 1 that we should be releived from our embarrassments here, by the agency of Mr. Ross to whom our supply had been committed, we ceased from further representations on that head, believing them to be as dis agreeable to you as they were painfull to ourselves—but the experi ence we have had of Mr. Ross’s exertions serves only to shew he wants either the inclination or the ability to extricat us from our diffi culties, the supplies furnished being inadequate to our occasions, and chiefly by Bills drawn upon credit obtained here payable from forty to sixty days sight, and discounted at a loss to the State of from 10 to 18 and 20 per cent—a trafic as disagreeable to us as dishon ourable and injurious to our constituents. Mr. Thomas Pleasants acting here under the direction of Mr. Ross has opened to us a prospect of future supply, less uncertain and dependant Than we have for some time experienced, and hoping it may be convenient to the State to adopt the measure, we have taken the liberty to draw a Bill upon your Excellency for four 2 thousand dollars in specie, payable sixty days after sight to Mr. John Cowper or order, which, if duly honoured in Virginia, will establish a fund of supply for the Delegates, who may attend in Congress, for part of the ensuing year, and relieve them from the inconveniences and anxiety of precarious subsistence. We have the honor to be, yr. Excellency’s obedt. huml. Servts. J. Madison Junr. Edm. Randolph. Jos. Jones P.S. This Letter has been opened since it was Sealed to alter the Sum from eight to four thousand dollars the amount of the Bill now drawn. Mr. Cowper could furnish the larger Sum and we request your attention to that sum if practicable as perhaps so good an opportunity may not soon present itself. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Jones and signed by Jones, Mad ison, and Randolph. Postscript by Madison. Addressed: “His Excellency The Gover nor of Virginia Richmond.” 1 For the delegates’ explanation of their financial plight to former governor Thomas Nelson, to whom they assumed they were writing, see especially Virginia Delegates to Nelson, September 18, 1781. For Nelson’s “assurances” of aid, see Mad ison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:268n.l0, 276n.5. 2 Written above a deleted “eight,” for which see the postscript.
