December 6, 1781 239 An Ordinance has lately passed Congress, for regulating Captors and Captures on the High Seas and condemnation of the same, and, among other things, it is ordained that all British property found within three leagues of any of the Shores of the United States, except it be in French Bottoms or hath been previously captured and condemned, shall be liable to Capture and condemnation after the first day of March next. All Acts and Ordinances heretofore made in any wise touching captures is by said Ordinance repealed and this to take place immediately. You will please to excuse our not being more particular on this Subject as we expect the Ordinance will be immediately transmitted to you by the Secretary of Congress. 4 It is with pleasure we can inform you, that the stock of Cloathing now on hand is a more ample supply for our Army than we ever have been able to make before at any one time since the commence ment of the War. It is sufficient to compleatly clothe every Soldier now in Service exept Blankets, of that Article there is a deficiency but such Measures are taken as we flatter ourselves cannot fail of Success. A Committee has been appointed to confer with the Commander in chief and Secretary at War on the best measures for arranging and filling up the Army, so as to make it respectable. 5 The Commit tee have reported, that it is inexpedient to make any alterations in the last arrangement that was made by Congress on the 3d and 21st of October 1780 and that the several States be called upon to fill their Regiments with Recruits to serve for three Years or during the War. It appears probable, Congress will agree to the Report of the Committee, and that requisitions will be sent to the several states accordingly. If this should take place we shall be happy to give you the earliest information. We apprehend you will be a little surprized at the deficiency that will appear to be in our Regiment, when Col. Olneys Returns come to hand. The Colonel is arrived at the Head of Elk with his Regiment after having experienced almost every kind of distress in a long passage by Water from York Town. The Re giment is very sickly, the small Pox has got among the last Recruits, in this case they are not alone many from other Regiments are down with it. All the Executive Business under Congress, is now in new hands and we hope for the better and have the happiness to think that not only much less money is misapplied, than has been at many former Periods but turned to much more advantage to the Public. The established Character of the Superintendant of Finance, his Abili ties, numerous correspondents in different parts of the World and permanent property give great advantages in the execution of the important Trust he is honoured with. The public debts that had accumulated previous to his coming into Office were numerous and
