244 December 12, 1781 John Hanson to the States Sir, Circular. Philadelphia. 12th December 1781. Altho’ the present aspect of American Affairs is truly favourable and opens to our view the brightest prospects of a glorious peace and the unmolested possession of the invaluable rights we have nobly dared to contend for, yet a relaxation in our exertions will not only be disgraceful, but may prove dangerous and even fatal to our liberties. Congress, on their part, are determined to prevent both the one and the other; and accordingly have thought proper, by their Act of the 10th instant, a copy of which I have the honor of enclosing, to call upon the Legislature of each State, in the most pressing manner, to compleat the Quota of troops assigned to them. 1 The same Act contains several other requisitions, and the whole of such evident magnitude and importance as render it un necessary to urge any thing more upon the subject. I have the honor likewise of transmitting to your Excellency a copy of an Act of Congress of the 11th instant, recommending it to the Legislature of each State to ascertian, as soon as practicable, their number of white Inhabitants. 2 A foundation for equal Justice, on a very important occasion, being the object they have in view in desiring the above information, your Excellency and the Legislature of your State will, no doubt, concur with me in opinion, that the business should be accom plished with all possible accuracy and dispatch. I have the honor to be, Sir, with great respect, Your Excellency s Obedient & very humble Servant, John Hanson Presidt RC (PBL). In a clerical hand and signed by Hanson. Addressed: “His Excellency The Governor of Virginia.” LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 JCC, 21:1163-64. See also Committee of Congress to Washington, December 5, 1781. 2 JCC, 21:1129-30, 1165. South Carolina Delegates to John Rutledge gj r Philada. Decemr. 12th. 1781. We wrote you the 29th ulto. 1 by Capt. Warley since which nothing material of a publick Nature has occur’d. By the Arts, of Confedn. The States are to make returns of their White Inhabs. as a ground for fixing their respective Quotas of the United Army, & for levelling the general Expences attending it at a future day. We are therefore of Opinion (altho Congress has not required it) it might be politick for our State to make such a return
