246 December 13, 1781 enough the implied Stigma upon the State of Massachusetts and the Intimates of our deceased Friend Genl. Warren. I find however such Proofs of the Discountenance which Doctr. Warren has met with that I think myself at Liberty to solicit for him in this Quarter. I cannot say much in Favor of yr. pressing Mr. Willson’s Case forward as any Ways singular. He is but one of Thousands, And until the States really furnish Congress with Funds such Applications as his can only give Pain to the Delegates without procuring Relief for the Petitioners. And now, Sir, I wish I was a private Citizen that I might have your Patronage and your Answer to some Points which I am sure I have written upon to you respecting my individual Interest. Is there any Resolve of the Assembly of Massachusetts limiting the Draughts of the Delegates? Or, more materially still, is there any Provision whatever made respecting their Support here? I have been honoured by repeated Elections. Surely our good Friend G— y 4 was not right when he suspected the old ones were to be starved out that a new Set might take their Places, with honourable Ap pointments. I have more than once or twice been told by real Friends that I had better return if it was only to settle my Accounts. An[d] one of my Sons has given an Hint which makes me construe the above advice into a Censure upon the Freedom of my Draughts. By every Proof in my Possession I find that I have not exceeded any one of my Colleagues, in equal Times; yet, to all who have settled a considerable Balance has been paid. As to an Adjustment of my Accounts in my Absence one Road is very plain. I have till lately lived with my Colleagues one and another of them. Take the lowest Account of any one of those during equal Periods and decide mine by it, I shall be a gainer, and my Draughts will appear to have been governed by my sheer Necessities. Now that we deal in fixed money the Decission is more simple and limited Permissions to draw may be made with less Implication of Censure than in former Periods. You know how few Things are included in the Term Boarding nowadays for which I pay a Dollr. per Day. I will not presume that my other Expences, chargeable to the public, exceed another Dollar, though it would be more much more if I allowed myself all the Decencies & Conveniencies which the State has warranted and would readily repay As to my Services I am persuaded that I shall receive a better Reward than some of you who settled under the misapprehensions which took Place in estimating a depreciating Paper. Mr. Gerry & Mr. Partridge were allowed 9/ per Day; is Living cheaper than in 1774? Is Connecticut an extravagant, profuse Government? She gave 18/ from the Beginning of Congress, and for about a Year back has given 24/ per day besides all Expences. I have experienced particular Kindness to myself and Family from the State which employs me. I have therefore only to point out Facts to be relieved
