December 13, 1781 247 under my present Disgraces. I owe for Board and the Shoes & Stockings upon my Feet with many other Bills to come out of the Pay for my Time & Services. It is 247 days since I settled my Board in which Time I have drawn for 12000 old Dollars which being paid in 300 new purchased in Boston 60 hard. I have reed, here 133 on Armands Draught. 193 I have drawn for 300 in Augst. which was not honoured in Novr. Thus you see the Balance of my Board, my daily Expences, my decent Cloa[thes] and some Care of a large Fami[ly] in a cold Winter are the Cause of Anxiety upon my Mind at a Time when I assure my public Employment was never more vexatious. The necessity of 7 Voices & 9 in some Cases calls for a full Representation and impar tial continental generous Spirits in the Delegations. Alas! alas! When I presented the instructions from the State respecting the Subject of the F s 5 I thought very little or no objection would me [6c] made, but I was greatly mistaken. The Proceedings here of 1779 respecting that Business are made Air of. But, I will be more partic ular in Cyphers in my next to you or to Secretary Avery. I am called upon to Close, yr. Friend & h Sert. Jas Lovell RC (NN: Samuel Adams Papers). 1 Congress did not meet this day, as the delegates observed “a day of public thanksgiving and prayer” pursuant to congressional resolves of September 13 and October 26. See JCC, 21:1166; and Thomas McKean to the States, October 31, 1781. Also in observance of this occasion, Pennsylvania delegate George Clymer penned the following verses, “A Hymn of Praise—adapted to the Genl. Thanksgiving ap pointed by Congress 13 Dec. 1781,” which are in the Chamberlain Collection, MB. 1. To Thee! High Sovereign of the Skies! This day our grateful Songs resound; From every heart shall incense rise, And praise thro’ all thy temples sound. 2. Our land a tributary slave Doom’d to Rebellion’s awful fate; When heav’n a powerful Monarch gave To aid new Pillars of the State. 3. Rais’d and establish’d by thy pow’r, Firm props of the Republic’s Laws; Thy Blessings on the people show’r, Thine Arm supports th’ united cause. 4. Union ‘tis God alone inspires: Founded by Heav’n, the Fabrics rise; Th’ astonish’d world the work admires And owns the council of the skies. 5. New Empires never rise by chance, No Gales such high distinctions blow; Th’ All-ruling Judge doth States advance, And lays a tyrant-Kingdom low. 6. He forms our General prudent, brave, Gives our young Captains warlike skill;
