December 14, 1781 249 management of the great and important advantages obtained by the late glorious events in Virginia and South Carolina. Your favour of the 21st ult. was received yesterday and laid before Congress this morning. We flatter ourselves that your sensible and very spirited letter to Genl. Gould will be productive of some good consequences, 2 and are very happy to be informed of Leslie’s arrival without Troops, as we had some apprehensions, in your present situation, from a measure of that nature. We now most ardently wish for a Junction of Major Genl. St. Clair, with your little but glorious Army. Your’s is the first official intelligence we have received of the evacuation of Wilmington. I have the honor to be, Sir, your most obedient & very humble Servant, John Hanson Presidt RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Hanson. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 See Hanson to the States, December 12, 1781. 2 Copies of Greene’s November 21 letter to Congress and his November 9 letter to Gen. Paston Gould protesting “the barbarous custom which prevails in your army of burning houses & desolating the Country” of South Carolina, are in PCC, item 172 1:313-19. John Hanson to George Washington Sir, Philada. 14th Dec. 1781. It is with infinite satisfaction that I transmit the enclosed copy of an Act of Congress of the 10th instant; 1 as I am satisfied the exer tion called for is agreeable to your Excellency’s wish and expecta tion, and if punctually and properly complied with, will contribute in the highest degree to the final attainment of the great and glo rious objects we are contending for, and towards which so many judicious and successful advances have lately been made both in Virginia and South Carolina. With the highest sentiments of respect and esteem I have the honor to be, Sir, Your Excellency’s Obedient & very humble Servt. John Hanson Presid. 2 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Hanson. 1 See Hanson to the States, December 12, 1781. Hanson also sent a copy of this resolve with a brief cover letter to Gen. William Heath this day. PCC, item 16, fols 132-33. 2 Hanson also wrote a letter to New Hampshire president Meshech Weare on December 15, enclosing a resolve recommending that the state “make up the depreci ation” of the pay of James Reed, a blind brigadier general from New Hampshire whose case had originally come before Congress in 1780, for which see JCC, 21:1167—68; PCC, item 16, fol. 133; and Samuel Huntington to James Reed, January
