December 17, 1781 253 James Lovell to Nathanael Greene Sir Deer. 17. 1781 Your Letter of Novr. 21st has reached me; and agreably to yr. Wish I shall continue, what I had already undertaken, to endeavour to explain to Majr. Burnet 1 what may aid him in the Practice referred to in your above mentioned Letter. Our Friend Adams now in Holland will be very singularly pleased & assisted by your Communications and you may be assured of my Care in forwarding them. 2 The Enemy are bragging in New York that they have a Vauban now at Charlestown. I suppose tis Mon- treseur. They think they have nothing to fear without you are aided by Ships. I wish your Prospect of that Aid was a nearer one than it is. For I feel more interested in your Fame & Glory than meerly as an individual Citizen of that union for which you have so nobly fought. My Son 3 was not well some Time ago, nor did I hear from him by your Express now. I fear he is under a Relapse. I pray you to put the inclosed in a Road to reach him where he may be posted. I know him more by the Commendations of his superior officers and by those of such as I have been accustomed to think very judicious Men than by my own Observations not having had the Pleasure to be much with him. I therefore leave him wholly to the Chances which his own Conduct will give him under the Eyes of a humane, just and sagacious Chief, in the Department where Duty has called him. We have Nothing material and at the same Time authentic from abroad. Your Friend & humble Servant, James Lovell RC (MiU—C: Greene Papers). 1 That is, Robert Burnet, an aide to General Greene, who served as Greene’s spokesman in Philadelphia. Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 2:267n.2. 2 Lovell undoubtedly simply forwarded copies of Greene’s correspondence with himself and Congress, rather than letters from Greene to John Adams, because in a January 28, 1782, letter to Adams, Greene wrote of renewing their correspondence, which “has been long broken off.” Bernhard Knollenberg, ed., “The Revolutionary Correspondence of Nathanael Greene and John Adams,” Rhode Island History 1 (July 1942): 82-83. 3 That is, James S. Lovell. Abraham Clark to John Mehelm Sir, Philada. Deer. 17 [i.e. 18]. 17811 Your favour of the 10th to me, and of the 15th to the Delegates enclosing your instruction were reed, yesterday by Mr. Covenhoven. The instructions were laid before Congress, and the matters therein urged are referred to a Committee and will be duly attended to.
