254 December 17, 1781 Upon receiving the instructions relative to the Islands on the Bay & River Delaware; the applications we were directed to make, we all understood was for a Settlement of boundaries agreable to the Con federation; and being informed by the Delegates of Pennsyla. & Delaware that such an expensive mode of Settlement might be avoided, as their states would gladly come into the measure. This Occasioned our delay at that time, and also my Letter at the first meeting of the Legislature. 2 Hearing nothing from you for some weeks, we determined to proceed on the business, which I took the liberty to inform you of by Letter; 3 but in taking the business up we found ourselves at a loss to discover the real wish & intentions of the Legislature, as the applications directed were different from the mode pointed out in the Confederation for Settling boundaries. This Mr. Houston engaged to inform you of; we never once con ceived a thought that you doubted your Right to the Islands Contig uous to our Shore untill meeting with Mr. Trent a few days ago, he informed me of your doubts in that respect, which Are confirmed by your Letter of the 10th. We 4 shall at all times pay due respect & attention to any instruc tions we may be charged with, at the same time think it our inde- spensible duty to advise you of the difficulties that may probably arise in the prosecution. If a Title to the Islands & a line of Jurisdic tion is all that the Legislature had in view, they will I presume be Sattisfied by Mr. Covenhoven that the business can only be effected by Joint concurrence of the states concerned without any inter ference of Congress. It is however Suggested that your Real Designs were to establish a precedent for Congress to dispose of all Unap propriated Crown Lands in the several States. This I cannot believe was had in Contemplation by you, as we had no intimations of it, but whether true or false will be a most effectual barr to our Obtaining any grant, for the following Reasons: Most of the states having within their Claims large quantities of unappropriated Lands, will not agree that Congress shall exercise such a Right unless it be over such Lands as shall be Ceeded; and if our Application should be considered as a Cession of our Claim to the Islands, they will if they do any thing Sell them at full Value, in which we shall by our Application lose what we have a just Right to by the Law of Nations, and Settle no preceedent to our Advantage, which you may be assured will be carefully guarded against. Congress is now Repre sented by only Nine states, the jealousies that will arise on an Appli cation for a grant will influence most of the states to Oppose it on every political principle—seven States are Necessary to concur in every question of the smallest moment—in all wherein there is any Appropriation Nine states must concur; What chance have we then in the present Case?—none that I can see but the loss of what we
