December 18, 1781 255 have an indubitable Right to, and which we have in our power to hold the peaceble possession of. As the business before Congress will not at present and for some days to come, admit a consideration of this matter, we can readily comply with Mr. Covenhovens desire to let the matter rest for a few days till you can be informed of the above and such other matters relative thereto as he will be able to communicate. I have the honour to be with all due Respect, Sir, Your Obedt. Humble Servt. Abra. Clark P.S. I wish this Representation might be communicated to the Council. RC (Nj: State Papers). Addressed: “Honorable John Mehelm Esqr., Speaker of the Assembly.” 1 Although dated “Deer. 17,” Clark probably wrote this letter on the 18th when the congressional action described in the first paragraph took place. Mehelm’s December 15 letter to the New Jersey delegates directing them to seek Continental military action against Loyalist raiders in New Jersey was endorsed by Secretary Thomson: “read Deer. 18, 1781. Referred to the comee appointed to confer with the comr. in chief.” See JCC, 21:1179n; and PCC, item 68, fols. 587-90. 2 See Clark to Mehelm, October 23, 1781. 3 Not found. 4 The New Jersey delegates in attendance at this time were Clark, Silas Condict, and William Churchill Houston. Although Edmund C. Burnett conjectured that Houston left Congress about December 14 (his name does not appear on a roll call vote of December 19), Houston later explained to New Jersey judge Robert Morris that he had left Congress on December 24, the day Jonathan Elmer took his seat under the new November 2 election of New Jersey delegates. See Burnett, Letters, 6:xlviii; JCC, 21:1180, 1182; and Houston to Robert Morris, January 15, 1782, Morris Papers, NjR. Samuel Livermore to Meshech Weare Dear Sir, Philada. Deer. 18th 1781. I reed, yours of the 4th instant with the papers inclosed which I this day laid before Congress (except those which contain the Ma neuvers of Vermont Assembly at Charlestown, which congress were already possessed of). Congress appointed a comtee. of five to take them into consideration and report. 1 Every member of Congress but one appeard in our favour & against Vermont as far as I could judge. Nevertheless I do not pretend to predict the measures that will be taken. The labouring oar I think is on congress to support their own honour, dignity and authority. I wish to keep it so. I shall farther advise of what may turn up. 2 I am with great esteem your most obedt. servant. Samuel Livermore
