258 December 18, 1781 28th of June 1780 on that subject. 5 It will probably be of service in fixing the value of the depreciated currency advanced at different periods by Virginia to the U. States. The letter to Mr. Ross 6 relates to Sundry Slaves the property of some Gentlemen of the State of S. Carolina the meritorious suffer ings of whom will sufficiently recommend what concerns their in terest to your Excellency’s care & attention. We have the honor to be with the highest respect & esteem, Yr. Excell’y’s Obt. & humble servts. J. Madison Jr. Edmund Randolph 7 Jos. Jones P.S. We are obliged by arrival of the hour for the post to omit the representation which we expected wd. have been ready for us. RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). Written by Madison and signed by Madison, Jones, and Randolph. 1 For the draft of this December 13 letter to Harrison, see the Steuben Papers microfilm edition, DLC. 2 For the “two Resolutions” of the Virginia assembly concerning impressment of provisions for British prisoners in Virginia and the state’s inability to furnish such supplies, which were transmitted to the delegates in Harrison’s letter of December 1, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:319-20. They were referred on December 11 to the superintendent of finance and secretary of war, the latter of whom reported the following day that the Convention Army prisoners, at least, would “in a few days, be removed from Winchester to Frederick. 1 am authorized to assure Congress that contracts will be made for their supply.” See JCC, 21:1165n; and PCC, item 75, fols. 351-52. 3 A reference to President Hanson’s December 17 circular letter to the states, for which see Hanson to Washington, December 17, 1781, note 2. 4 Not found, but apparently a letter of December 11. 5 For an illustration of this table, see these Letters, 15:383. 6 Not found. 7 Randolph also sent the following note of December 20 to Philadelphia merchant Samuel Garrigues: “Be pleased to fill the carboy, now sent, with the same kind of wine, with that formerly furnished. I wish to know the amount of my account with you. Altho’ it is not perfectly convenient for me to discharge it immediately, yet if you desire it, I will pay it off.” Society Collection, PHi. John Hanson to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia. 19th. Dec. 1781. I have the honor of enclosing a Report of the Secretary at War on a letter from Brigadier Genl. Irvine at Fort Pitt, which Congress have referred to your Excellency to take order upon. 1 With sentiments of the highest respect and esteem, I have the honor to be, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedt. humble Servt. John Hanson Presidt.
