262 December 22, 1781 George Partridge to Elbridge Gerry Dear Sir Philadelphia Deer. 22d. 1781 I understood, by a Gentleman who arrived here from Boston some months ago, that it was your Design to be at Phila. this Winter; and I hoped, for several reasons that it would be the case; but the season for Journeying being over, I expect you will defer the matter till spring when I may chance to see you at Boston before you set off, as I intend to be there by the first of April. The States have been very thinly represented during the Summer and fall tho’ enough have been here to do some things which I believe you will judge not very honorable or advantageous to the U.S. and here I should be glad to be particular if the conveyance of Letters was not so very precarious. Whither Mr. A 1 will take a part in the Commission I am not informed but fear he will not, as he is not very fond of leading strings. A Letter lately receivd. from Mr. J 2 gives us his Sentiments on the Subject which appear to me rational and independant. I presume that you have seen Genl. Ward since he returned, & must know what I allude to. Everything which relates to the old money lies dormiant. The Superintendant (on whom much depends in this case) says that he shall insist on the plan of the 18th March, and when the several States have sunk their Quotas of the old money nominally, he shall promote a plan for doing Justice to those States who were early in doing their duty, & tho’ I think him to be honest in his intentions, yet it appears to me very uncertain whither he will Affect his purposes. You have doubtless been informed that Genl Lincoln has accepted the Office of Secretary at War. Congress passed a Resolution Yester day 3 which put a piece of Business into his hands that will not, I believe, be very agreeable to him. The purport of the Resolution is that the Commander in Chief shall signify to the Secretary at War from time to time the number of Genl. Officers which he Judges necessary to be in & take the field, and the Secretary shall issue his orders to such as he thinks proper, the remainder to be considered as retiring on half pay, Subject however to be called into service when occasion requires. How this measure will suit the Genl Offi cers is uncertain, tho’ I am told there will be no great difficulty about the matter. I wish you would be so kind as to inform me when you expect to be here, & whether Mr. Adams or either of our Brethren is coming on soon. I am Sir with great esteem your most obedt. Huml Servt. Geo Partridge
