January 15, 1782 283 Your mother has been very unwell almost ever Since you left us ’till within these few days. She begins to be better reconciled to the place and intends to begin tomorrow to return Vissits. Little Kitty is very well and much delighted with the Acquaintance She has made Among the little Girls. Our national Bank opend Monday last and many notes have been Issued—it seems to be the inclination of all ranks of people to give it all possible Credit—some notes have been brought in by the Farmers to be Exchanged what were instantly paid off in hard money. While others after finding that the money was ready went off with the notes well Satisfyed of their being equal in Value to Gold and silver. The Merchants here are throwing their money into the Bank, and taking out notes, which they find equally Answers their purposes. These notes too will be received in the Continental Treasury in discharge of Taxes. Ten or twelve Vessels are lately arrived here from the Havanna, with a large quantity of Specie, which it is said will all go into the Bank—in short from present Appearances I think there Can be no doubt, but the Credit of the Bank will in a very Short time, be so well established, that it will be in the power of the Directors, to Issue notes to any Amount they please; prudence will dictate to them, not to Issue more than they have Cash in hand, at least for some time. When those notes get Circulated through the Continent, it will be a difficult matter in Case our Enemies (I mean the disaffected) Should have designs Against the Bank, to Collect a number Sufficient to endanger its Credit; and no man or Set of men perhaps would think themselves Safe in making the Attempt. 9 oClock at night post Just arrived and no letter from you. no news from the southward Since the 21st Novr. Your mother and little Kit Joins in love to you and little Beck & John. My Compliments to all friends, yrs. J H. RC (MdHi: Hanson Letters). Elias Boudinot to William Livingston Sir, Philadelphia Janry. 15th. 1782 I lately received an application from the County of Essex, inform ing me of one Mr Reid 1 having been taken up in New Ark, who had come from New York, and after being bound over to appear at Court, that he was again taken returning from New York. I was desired to call on the Commander in Chief to get all the Intelligence I could of this Man. 2 This I have done and for obvious Reasons, think proper to communicate the result to your Excellency, as the Head of the Executive Authority.
