286 January 15, 1782 ceeding in the enquiry. The next step of the Committee was still more obnoxious. They went fully into a hearing of the Memorialists through their Agents, & received all the evidence adduced in sup port of their pretensions. On this occasion we renewed our remon strances to the Committee & our complaints to Congress, but with as little effect as on the first occasion. The upshot of the whole was a report to Congress rejecting the Cessions of Virga. & Cont. and accepting that of N.Y.; disallowing also the claims of the Companies N.W. of the Ohio, but justifying that of the Inda. Compy. The report seems to distrust the doctrine hitherto maintained, of territorial rights being incident to the U.S. Collectively which are not compre hended within any individual State; substituting the expedient of recognizing the title of N.Y. stretching it over the whole country claimed by the other ceding States, & then accepting a transfer of it to the U.S. In this state the business now rests, the report having never been taken into consideration, nor do we wish it should, till it shall have undergone the consideration of Virga. In whatever light the policy of this proceeding may be viewed it affords an additional proof of the industry & perseverance with which the territorial rights of Virga, are persecuted, & of the neces sity of fortifying them with every precaution which their impor tance demands. As a very obvious & necessary one we long since recommended to the State an accurate & full collection of the docu ments which relate to the subject. If the arrival of Capt. Irish had taken place before the adjournt. of the Assembly & during your stay with it we flattered ourselves that this recommendation wd. have been attended to & that the task wd. have fallen on you. As this was not the case we have no hope at present of being enabled from any other sources than the voluntary aids of individuals to contradict even verbally the misrepresentations & calumnies which are daily levelled agst. the claims of Va. & which can not fail to prepossess the public with errors injurious at present to her reputation & which may affect a future decision on her rights. Col. Masons industry & kindness has supplied us with some valuable papers & remarks. Mr. Jones has also reed from Mr. Pendleton some judicious remarks on the subject. 6 We are still notwithstandg. far from possessing a com plete view of it. Will you permit me to ask of you such information as your researches have yielded, with the observations which you have made in the course of them. I would not obtrude such a request on you if the subject were not of public importance & if it could have been addressed with equal prospect of advantage elsewhere. Indeed if you cd. prevail on yourself to spare as much time as would Survey the whole subject, beginning with the original charter, pursuing it thro’ the subsequent charters 8c other public acts of the crown thro’ the Govs, of Virga., 8c referring to all the transactions with the
