January 15, 1782 287 Indians which have been drawn into the question, the public utility I am persuaded wd sufficiently reward you for the labor. 7 Pray did you ever receive a letter from me inclosing a proposition declaratory of the coercive power of Congress over the States? It went by an Express while you were at the head of the Exec. 8 We have not a word of new[s] from Europe. The French are assemblg a force in the W. Indies which presages further calamities to the English. The Spaniards are also in motion, but their object will probably be both a small & a selfish one. I shall cheerfully send you a line as often as I have a subject for it, tho’ I shall be so selfish as to hope for some return for it. I am Dr Sir Yrs sincerely J. Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:32-34. 1 Not found. 2 See Madison to Edmund Pendleton, December 25, 1781, note 4. 3 For Jefferson’s refusal to return to Congress, see ibid. 4 See Madison to Jefferson, November 18, 1781, note 1. 5 See Virginia Delegates to Thomas Nelson, October 9, note 4, and Edmund Randolph to Nelson, November 7, 1781, note 4. 6 See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:35n.l3. 7 For Jefferson’s explanation of why he could not honor Madison’s request, see ibid., 4:119-20. 8 See Madison to Jefferson, April 16, 1781. South Carolina Delegates to Charles Cotesworth Pinckney Sir 1 Philadelphia, 15 Jan 1782 We received your letter of the 5th inst 2 and agreeable to your request inclose you copies of the papers upon which the determina tion of Congress respecting the Non-Exchange of Earl Cornwallis at present, was founded. 3 With regard to the improper mode of conducting the Public Business, of which you complain, 4 although we do not think our selves responsible to any individual, yet for your satisfaction we inform you that the system was established previous to our nomina tion and that however well disposed we may be to alter it, the single vote of one State is not competent for that purpose. As to the part that we took in the business of Ex., we declare that we voted in the negative, and shall be ready to answer for our conduct and to give the reasons by which we were influenced whenever we are called on by the Legislature of our Country 5 —to you as an individual and a
