288 January 15, 1782 Patriot we answer that our votes were grounded upon the most sacred of all Political maxims “Salus populi suprema Lex esto.” 6 We are your very humble servts. Arthur Middleton Thomas Bee Jacob [Isaac] Motte Tr (ScU: South Caroliniana Library). FC (ScHi: Middleton Papers). FC in the hand of Arthur Middleton. 1 Pinckney, a colonel in the Continental Line, had been captured at Charleston and was in Philadelphia awaiting exchange. 2 See note 4 below. 3 It is not clear what “papers” the delegates may have enclosed concerning Con gress’ proceedings of December 3-5, 1781, but they probably sent letters from Wash ington and commissary of prisoners Abraham Skinner regarding Sir Henry Clinton’s refusal to proceed with the proposed exchange of the remaining American officers captured at Charleston unless the Earl of Cornwallis was included, for which see John Hanson to Washington, December 5, 1781. 4 Pinckney’s January 5 “complaint” was symptomatic of the frustration felt by South Carolina exiles in Philadelphia. In this instance, he lashed out at Congress and its “mode of conducting the Public Business.” “Hearing it mentioned this morning in Town,” he explained, “that the Exchange of the Southern Officers was stopped, because Congress has resolved not to exchange Lord Cornwallis, and feeling myself materially affected by a resolution which might deprive me longer of my Liberty, I applied to the Office of the Secretary of War (where I expected to find every resolution of a military tendency) for the proceedings of Congress on that subject; trusting that if such resolution was really passed, I should there see such cogent reasons, for the measure as would convince me that the Interests of my Country required the Continuance of my Captivity, and that my Exchange was not either wantonly or unreasonably held. “I was informed at the War Office that no resolution relative to the Exchange had been sent there. I thence immediately went to the Office of the Secretary of Congress, and asked for the resolution which declared Lord Cornwallis should not be ex changed. I was there told no such resolution had been entered into. I then desired to see such part of the Journals as related to his Exchange, and was answered that my request could not be complied with, for nothing appeared on the Journals, as a Negative had been put on the report brought in by the Committee on that Subject. This may be true—and yet I have good reason to believe the question of Lord Cornwallis’s Exchange was agitated in Congress, and it was there determined not to exchange him. . . . “One of your Constituents may deem himself aggrieved in a most essential manner by a Vote of Congress, may think his most valuable rights thereby unnecessarily withheld form him, and (for arguments sake we will suppose it to be possible) the States to which he belongs on a fair representation of the Case; may be of opinion that he has been injured; yet on a reference to the Journals of Congress no record can be found of any resolution which either mediately or immediately affects him, nor any trace of the part those Delegates took in the affair who should have been the particular Guardians of his rights.” Pinckney readily admitted that “Resolves may in some cases be passed which reasons of State and the general good may require to be kept secret. But this 1 apprehend cannot be one of those Cases, as this matter is publicly talked of in Philadelphia, and reports are spread of the part each member took in it. . . And he concluded by requesting “an official and authentic account of the proceedings rela tive to the above Resolution, and of the reasons on which it is founded; that if the General Assembly of South Carolina should be sitting on my return there, I may be
