January 16, 1782 289 able to show them that it is not my fault that I am still a Prisoner, and debarred the Privilege of sharing the dangers of my Fellow Citizens, and of endeavouring with them to recover our Country from the hands of the Enemy, but that 1 have most earnestly and assiduously sollicited my Exchange, and done everything in my power to attain it.” SCHGM, 27 (April 1926): 55-60. 5 It is clear that Middleton had earlier sought to have Cornwallis detained for the “cruelties” he had perpetrated in South Carolina, for which see Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard, October 24, 1781, note 2. For his continued opposition to Cornwallis’ exchange, see also Middleton’s Notes for a Speech, February 23, 1782. 6 The welfare of the people is the supreme law. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir Philadelphia Jany. 15. 1782. Having informed your excellency in our last letter, 1 that we should repeat our dispatches, transmitted to Capt. Irish, unless you should announce the receipt of them by yesterday’s post, and hear ing nothing from the executive, we shall prepare them for the mail of the next week. We unfortunately supposed, that he would convey them in the most expeditious manner. But we have now reason to believe, that his delay on the road has been occasioned by sickness. 2 The inclosure contains an answer to the letter, addressed to Gen eral Washington by the Speaker of the house of delegates on the subject of thanks. We beg leave to consign it to your excellency’s care. 3 We have the honor, Sir, to be with great respect and esteem yr. mo. ob. servt’s Jas. Madison Jr. Jos. Jones. Edm. Randolph. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Randolph and signed by Ran dolph, Jones, and Madison. 1 See Virginia Delegates to Harrison, January 8, 1782. 2 There is no evidence that the delegates ever sent such duplicate dispatches to Harrison, but he eventually acknowledged receipt of the originals in his letter of February 2, for which see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:53-54. 3 For Washington’s acknowledgement of the resolution of “thanks” voted him by the Virginia assembly, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 23:435. Abraham Clark to Benjamin Winans Dear Sir 1 Philadela Jany 16, 17[82] As it is now a dearth of News you must not think it amiss that I send you none for indeed this season affords nothing material: it is a long time since we heard anything from Genl Green not since the
