290 January 16, 1782 reinforcements joined him. As we have no Army in the field at this time but his, we have to look to Military enterprize from no other quarter during the Winter unless it is from incursions made by the Enemy into New Jersey, which I think we have reason to fear, tho if they succeed no better than in their late attempt at Brunswick, they had better stay away. I saw in a late Jersey paper an Acct of Colo Cranes trial of Court Martial in which the Court finds him guilty of trading with the Enemy & encouraging it or countenancing it in others while he commanded at Eliza. Town, and being frequently [saturated?] with Liquor during his commd for which he is adjudged to be repri manded. 2 Nothing could have reflected greater dishonor on New Jersey than this Trial—only to reprimand an Officer for such a high offence is truly scandalous. I lately heard an officer in a Company of the first Characters of the United States say that Colonel ought to have been hanged and all the Court Martial with him. The affair is severely spoken of generally in this Town. Did Colo Crane know the Opinion entertained of his offence by people of the first Character or had any sense of Shame, he would avoid being seen as much as possible, but he has not a sense of honour enough to know his disgrace or feel his shame, and I suppose this must be much the Case of his judges who appear, at least of the major part of them to be destitute of every principle that Characterizes the man of honour. How is the honour of the Militia bearing this scandalous affair? I expect by this time the Murderer of Mr. Caldwell has been tried & received his doom but that will not restore our loss which will be long felt in Eliza. Town. 3 I think you had best not be in a hurry in getting another, for few can be found fit to Succeed him that is gone; I have one or two in my mind that might Answer, but think they could not be got till the end of the war, as they are Chaplains in the Army. I had not the pleasure of seeing you at Philada. as you proposed, and can form no guess when it will be probable I shall see you at home unless I shall return to [Reners?] in the Spring—but know not where to get a safe habitation in our Country. I intended to have hired Mr. Caldwell’s house & Land at Turkey if to be let, but that I understand hath been sold. Where I can go is altogether uncertain with me—but shall if I can remove if the Enemy continues at New York. I am, Dear Sir, most Sincerely yours. Abra Clark RC (NjHi: Statesmen Collection). 1 Benjamin Winans, a trustee of the Elizabethtown corporation, was related to Clark through his mother Hannah Winans Clark, and by the marriage of Clark’s son Aaron to Winans’ daughter Susan. Ruth Bogin, Abraham Clark and the Quest for
