January 21, 1782 291 Equality in the Revolutionary Era, 1774-1794 (Rutherford, N.J.: Fairleigh Dickinson University Press, 1982), p. 163. 2 A report on Lt. Col. Jacob Crane’s court-martial appeared in The New-Jersey Gazette (Trenton), December 19, 1781. Crane had been found guilty of trading with the enemy and being “disguised with liquor” while the commanding officer at Elizabethtown. The article also contained a public reprimand of Col. Crane by Gov. William Livingston, which was the sentence rendered by Crane’s court-martial. 3 That is, the Rev. James Caldwell, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Elizabethtown, who had been shot under somewhat mysterious circumstances by an American sentry later suspected of loyalism. For the legal depositions of various eyewitnesses to this event, see Joseph F. Folsom, “Manuscript Light on Chaplain James Caldwell’s Death,” NJHS Proceedings 1 (Jan. 1916): 1-12. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelpa, 21st Janry, 1782. We have been honoured with your Excellency’s Letter of the first instant, and would Observe with regard to the mode of settling the publick Accounts, that the Subject upon a Report has been recom mitted, and which has not yet been again reported upon. 1 One great Difficulty which attends this Business is, by what Rate the Certifi cates given for the old Money shall be Ascertained. A uniform Rule to Operate thro the States when it is well known that the Exchange has been so extremely different, would be apparently unjust, and wheither the schales adopted by the particular States, in Case they had been extended to the Termination of the old Currency, would in all Cases be an equitable one, is not altogether clear. But we Appre hend that when the Principles upon which the Accounts of the several States against the United States shall be Ascertained, one or more Commissioners will be appointed for each State, to liquidate those Accounts. This Measure not only Appears to us to be the most proper one, but, so farr as We can judge by the Observations made upon this Subject, will probably be the opinion of Congress. An other matter has been referred to the same Committee, to adopt a Mode by which the unfunded Debts of the United States shall be Apportioned out to the several States. By the funded Debt is meant all foreign Debts, Loan Office Certificates, and Debts liquidated and entered on the Books of the Treasurer. Wheither this last meas ure will be agreed to, is uncertain, perhaps it will be tho’t that the relative Value of the States, being so very precarious by the opera tions of the War, it would be too early a Period to ascertain the respective Quotas. With Regard to what your Excellency mentions respecting spe cific Supplies being Accepted towards the pecuniary Aid required of the State, We would inform, that the Superintendant of the
