January 22, 1782 295 Samuel Livermore to Meshech Weare Dear Sir, Philadelphia Jany. 21st. 1782 As my time in Congress is expird I now begin to think seriously of returning to my family and friends in Newhampshire. I have been expecting every day these three weeks to get something done effec tually in respect to Vermont; but in vain. Congress are much di vided and cannot agree to any one thing. Finding myself short of cash I have drawn on you for one hundred dollers, which I hope will be the last I shall be obliged to trouble you for before my return. I had just wrote the above as my Servant brought in Mr Langdons letter enclosing a vote of my being reappointed. 1 This was very unexpected. However it relieves me from a disagreable journy (I mean as to the winter season). I shall remain here for the present. But whether I shall be able to serve out the whole year is uncertain. I hope Mr. Langdon will be hurried on as fast as possible. I am informed by Mr. Langdons letter that your health is bad, which I am sorry for, but hope you will soon recover. I am your friend and most obedt Servant, Sam Livermore RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 Woodbury Langdon and Livermore had been elected delegates to Congress on December 29, 1781. Livermore, who had been elected on January 19, 1781, “for the Term of one year from the date hereof,” resumed his attendance on January 22. Langdon, who had been a delegate in 1779, never returned to Congress. See ICC, 20:498-99, 22:42; and N.H. State Papers, 8:887. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My dear Sir, Philadelphia Tuesday Evening [January 22? 1782] 1 Having reed, an Acct per Post, of Mrs. B’s being at Princeton on Saturday Evening, I set off yesterday before Noon with a Covered Carriage & met her at Bristol. We arrived here safe about three oClock this Afternoon, and feel very happy that we have preceeded this disagreeable Storm. I reed yours per Post and shall Carefully attend to your several requests. I greatly doubt that there is any thing worthy your atten tion, in which you can dispose of the Cash to any advantage, at present. Houses tho bringing an enormous rent sell low. I was offered a very genteel three Story brick House well firnished in front Street on the bank Side for £1050. I send you a Bundle of Cash, directed for Mr P. Smith, which please to let Elisha know you have as it will oblige him much. I have sent directions to one Josiah Conklin to pay you £100 or
