298 January 22, 1782 territory without those bounds to which their encroachments had been extended. Instead of complying with this condition they have gone on in their encroachments both on the N.Y. & N.H. sides & there is at this moment every symtom of approaching hostility with each of them. In this delicate crisis the interposition of Congress is again called for, & indeed seems to be indispensable; but whether in the way of military coercion, or a renewal of former overtures, or by making the first a condition of a refusal of the last, is not so unani mously decided. Indeed with several members & I may say States in Congress a want of power either to decide on their independence or to open the door of the confederacy to them is utterly disclaimd, 2 besides which the danger of the precedent, & the preponderancy it wd. give to the Eastern scale deserve serious consideration. These reasons nevertheless can only prevail when the alternative contains fewer evils. It is very unhappy that such plausible pretexts if not necessary occasions of assuming power should occur. Nothing is more distressing to those who have a due respect for the constitu tional modifications of power than to be obliged to decide on them. We have nothing fresh from Europe. We are informed by the way of N.Y. that the Earl of DunmOre has arrived at Charleston to claim from Earl Cornwallis the fulfilment of his promise. No individuals in his Suite are named. I am Dr Sir Yr Sincere friend & hbl servt. Js. Madison Jr. [P.S.] We have fresh & indubitable confirmations of the apostasy of Deane from the Independance of his Country. 3 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:38-39. 1 For Lord George Germain’s “intercepted letters,” see Thomas McKean to Wash ington, July 17, 1781, note 1. 2 For the recent proceedings on Vermont, see William Floyd to George Clinton, January 7; and Samuel Livermore to Meshech Weare, January 8, 1782. 3 See Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, January 21, 1782, notes 3 and 5. Samuel Osgood to John Lowell Dear Sir, Philadelphia Jany 23d. 1782 I had the Pleasure of receiving your Favor last Saturday. I con clude it was lately wrote, tho’ without Date. I am mortified, that I have not had the good Fortune to receive the Letters you mention to have written. The three several Matters you desire me to attend to, I shall do with the greatest Satisfaction & I must acknowledge, that at present I am doubtful of having any Success with Respect to two of them. The first is the Bond given to the Treasurer of the united
