January 27, 1782 305 vateering and there is no chance of getting a Vote in her favour, but shall still expect an opportunity. I am hopeful of receiving very shortly a Line from you putting the situation of our Country, I need not tell you I am very anxious.” And to his wife, Mary Izard Middleton, he was equally brief. “Mr. H. will convey this Line to you. I prom ised to [write?] fully but my anxiety is so great that I cannot. I have not received a single Letter or heard a word of you which gives me real trouble. . . . Until I know that you are out of reach of Insult the less you hear from me the better and you should be satisfied to know that I am well.” In addition, the Middleton Papers contain drafts of two other undated letters for his wife and for his father, Henry Middleton—reflecting Middleton’s views on conju gal and filial duty. Because few such expressions of his personal life survive, these suggestive texts are also offered at this point. “A regard to your Ease and happiness,” Middleton explained to Mary, “as far as attainable in your Situation has dictated necessity of a long & painfull Silence. I trust when my reasons are heard and well weighed it will be imputed to affection for friends and not to slight. I have a Wife & Children, a father. Brother, Sisters and other Connections whom I tenderly love & with whom I yet hope to spend a happy Period of Life and the lime I flatter myself not far distant. In the interim let them be charitable & suspend their Judgments; in matters of correspondence let them reflect upon the Danger of their own Situation and the delicacy of mine. Suffice it to them to know at present that I am well, my heart is firm and my Spirits unbroken. Let them pity not condemn me. The poignant anxiety for you all to which I am daily a Victim would be unsupportable were it not for the hope that I shall be recompensed by double pleasure when we meet. For you I suffer. Of myself I am regardless except a conscience which I must obey. Present duty and affections where due and believe I have every tender regard of an Husband and Father and shall have till Death.” And under the heading “HM. Great pleasure at letter and reasons of that pleasure,” Arthur penned the following cryptic notes for a letter to his father: “My time of Life. “My education for which I am indebted to you. “The situation in which fortune and your Bounty have placed me should make me not turbulent. “I shall throughout Life from [sense?] of Duty [fight?] Tyranny in every form. “While I have existence I shall Labour to establish a freedom of my Country upon a Basis not to be shaken at least for ages. “Your letter by Kinlock received here being a Copy, hearing of the arrival of Horry and not having opportunity I did not send. “My intention of returning home soon, hope in peace to remain. “Having given the prime of my Life to the public, I shall claim to be full member of Emeriti. The fresh instance of my Country’s approbation by delegating its greatest Trust. “[Uneasy?] for my Brother, anxious for him now and hopeful for his [well being?].” South Carolina Delegates to John Rutledge 27 Jan. 82 The Superintendant of Finance has received Orders from Con gress to report a table of rates at which the different species of foreign Coins most likely to circulate within the United States shall be received at the Treasury thereof. He has not yet made his report, 1 but as the value of Several Denominations of Gold & Silver were by an Agreement entered into by many Principal Planters & Merchants
