306 January 27, 1782 some years ago raised considerably above their intrinsic value in hopes of keeping the Specie in the State, which by no means an swered their expectations, & as the relative value of some species of Coin compared with others, for instance English & french Coin, with Spanish & Portugal, would if the value then fixed upon the latter was to continue open a Door for Speculation & be of consider able Injury to the State, & there being now little Specie in Circula tion, we submit whether the present would not be a favourable opportunity to lower the Denominations so raised to their true & relative value & as they formerly passed current amongst us, espe cially as little or no Injury will be done to Individuals by this meas ure if speedily adopted but whether this had best be done by an act of Legislature, the voluntary agreement of Individuals, or remain as it is we must submit to the Judgment of our Constituents—we con ceived it our Duty to mention the subject for their consideration. We have not been able hitherto to get the 8 Bales of woollens from Baltimore & Wilmington nor could we prevail on any of the wag goners who brought up the Indigo to return by that rout to carry them on with them to Carolina, but we now have taken steps to have them forwarded to this City, & are in hopes of receiving them in time to send on with the waggons still expected. We have the honor to be with the highest respect, Your Excys. most Obedt. h Servts. FC (Paul Francis Webster Collection, 1985). In the hand of Thomas Bee, and en- dorsed by him: “By Mr. G. A. Hall.” 1 Thomas Bee, who drafted this letter, had served on the committee which pro- posed on January 7 that Robert Morris prepare a table of exchange rates for foreign coinage. See JCC, 22:8-9. Instead of reporting on the assigned subject, however, Morris took the opportunity to prepare, with the aid of Gouverneur Morris, a highly technical plan for an American coinage and the establishment of a mint, for which see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 4:25^10. The plan was submitted to Congress some time between January 18 and 28 and referred to a grand committee which consulted with Morris on February 16 when it unanimously voted to recommend that a mint be created—a proposal that Congress adopted on February 21. See ibid., pp. 60, 125, 239; and JCC, 22:86-87. Arthur Middleton’s Memorandum on a Vermont Report [January 28? 1782]' The latter part of the Report seems intended to allure the des- senting States to a compliance, by giving the Face of an Act of power to what would in reality be a humiliating Condescention; We have been & continue oppos’d to the admission of a 14th State for reasons which appear to us cogent; among others because it will throw a
