316 January 30, 1782 Samuel Osgood to Henry Gardner Dear Sir. Philadelphia Jany. 30th. 1782 1 have lately made two Draughts upon you without Advice thereof. 1 One in Favor of the Honble. Robert Morris Esqr. for four hundred Dollars which has probably before this been presented for Payment. The other in Favor of Clement Biddle Esqr. for one hun dred & fifty Dollars which will be forwarded by the Post that carried this. These two Sums with what I have drawn for before will amount to about Eight hundred & fifty Dollrs. including one hundred & thirty three ’/s Dollrs. Reed, of Mr. Marboy on Colo. Armands Draught. If I do not misremember a Resolve of our Legislature pass’d last year limiting the Draughts of the Delegates to Two thousand Dollrs. new Emission when it was current at 1% for one for their annual Expences which is equal to about 1066 Dollrs. Specie. I find by examining the Journals of Congress that our Delegates when they drew their Money out of the continental Treasury expended about the Value of that Sum & I beleive it will be readily agreed that living in this City is from 50 to 75 per Cent, higher now than it was three or four years ago. All I wish for, whilst here is a decent Support to which I shall conform my Draughts entirely. I have reed, the Money here for the two first mentioned Draughts. As we have no News here of any Importance I must take the Liberty to subscribe myself—with Senti ments of the greatest Esteem, your most obedient Servant, Samuel Osgood RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). 1 Henry Gardner was the treasurer of Massachusetts. William Floyd to George Clinton Sir, Philadelphia, Jan 31st, 1782 I rec’d by Mr. Edgar your Excellency’s letter with the affidavits accompanying it which I immediately laid before Congress, who committed them; and a copy of the report of the Committee, I did myself the honor to enclose to your Excellency sometime since; 1 hope it is come to hand before now. 1 Congress after debating that report for 2 or 3 days, it was recommitted; the next report (not materially different from the first) was several days debated and committed again; 2 about this time Mr. Seth Smith arrived, by whom I had the honor of receiving your Excellency’s letter of the 21st instant.
