January 31, 1782 317 Smith, by way of memorial enclosing a kind of affidavits gave Congress information, which with some other that was at the same time received from another quarter, appeared to alarm some of our members who before that affected to disbelieve that they, the Ver- montiers, had formed any connexion with the enemy. 3 But this put it beyond a doubt. Upon which Congress committed the Report as it then Stood, with the concurrent Resolves of our Legislature on that Subject: the information then rec’d. with all other papers that related to that business to a Comttee. of one member from each State; that Com mittee has had it under consideration, and I was in hopes that yesterday or this day it would have determined on the principle (for which reason I detained Smith two days) but something happening which has prevented the Committee from doing it, 4 1 have thought proper not to detain him any longer. Congress appear to be sensible of the necessity of coming to some positive determination with respect to the business, but what they will agree to finally I cannot tell. As nigh as I can judge, the States stand thus; N. H. would have them independent, but would rather they were not, if those on the East Side of the Mountain could be annexed to them, and those on the West Side to N.Y.—Mas., R.I., and Connecticut are full for making them independent, at all events right or wrong, just or unjust; New Jersey, Delaware, and Maryland have been full for their independence; but some of them appear to be staggered since the late information. Pennsylvania has been rather favoring their inde pendence, but now appear to be at a Stand what to do; N.C. and S.C. and Georgia and Virginia, are much in our favor. But what will be determined I am not able to say. Whether Congress will declare them an independent State, or oblige them to return to the State of New York, or whether they will oblige them to go partly to New York and part to New Hampshire. A few days I think will determine it, as something must immediately be done on the subject. With respect to the distressed circumstances of our State and the settlemt. of our Agent’s accounts, a Committee has had them for many weeks and have not reported, tho’ I am constantly pressing them; and they are as often promising to report in a day or two. The concurrent Resolves of our Legislature respecting Colo. Van Schaick I have laid before Congress and they say that they can do nothing in the matter as it now stands, that they understood that he was tired of the service, and was about to resign, that he was not superseded for any misconduct in him. 5 Enclosed herewith is a copy of Chittenden’s letter to the President in answer to the Resolves of the 20th of August last, it is Jesuitical and will bear different construction. 6
