February 2, 1782 321 Citizen of the united States has been injured as in the Instance you mention, if Damages cannot be recovered at common Law which is the first Course to be taken for Want of Property in Case Judgment goes against the Captn. then the united States ought to constitute some Person to institute a Suit upon the Bond & that the injured Party should receive his Damages therefrom; & in Case the Dam ages do not amount to the Penalty; the Overplus will be at the Disposal of Congress. I am so little acquainted with Law, that I don’t know what is the best Mode of proceeding in this Case; But will hazard my Opinion, & wish your Sintiments upon it. Congress should direct Mr. Hillegas to empower some Person to institute a Suit for & in Behalf of him, as Treasurer of the united States, & in Case Judgment is recovered, the Amount should lay in the Hands of the Sheriff untill the injured Party had in some Mode, which may be pointed out, made to appear the reasonable amount of his Damages, & then the Sheriff should be empowered to discharge the same; & the Remainder, should there be any, subject to the Orders of Con gress. However it is strongly insisted upon by some, that the united States ought to be benefitted in Case of a Breach of such Bonds. This opinion seems to me to be neither consistent with Reason or the Design of requiring Bonds which undoubtedly has in View the Preservation of the Peace of the united States with other Nations. We have had this Day 3 laid before Congress a Letter from Genl. Heath to Genl. Washington inclosing a Letter from Captn. Wales & Mr. Davis. The Subject of Genl. Heath’s Letter is respecting the Cloathing our State has furnishd the Army, or that Part of it belong ing to said State. 4 This matter is undoubtedly of considerable Im portance & deserves mature Deliberation. The Financier has pro cured Cloathing enough for the whole Army & he says it was a Matter well known in Boston, as it was principally there. I find he has some Uneasiness about it. I understand the Delivery of it is prohibited at present. But should it be delivered; what is to be done then? Do the State intend to make a present of it to the Soldiers, or to deduct the Value of it out of their Pay when a Settlement is made, or to charge the whole Amount thereof against the united States to remain for future Adjustment? The first I think will not be adopted; the second upon the present Plan of the Financer cannot: and the third will at least be a doubtful and uncertain Charge. Several Things have been suggested here of late, which give some Degree of Pain to the Financier. It is said the State does not intend to comply with the Requisition of Congress for Money; & that many People are dissatisfied with the Conduct of Mr. Morris especially as to his Mode of supplying the Army with Provisions & Cloathing as it will have a great Tendency to make Philadela. the Center of all the hard Money on the Continent. Several Things which I do not recol lect Mr. Morris told me. Were it needful I should undertake to say a
