February 10, 1782 329 Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Philadelphia, Feb. 8, 1782. It was found that great quantities of British goods, were brought by circuitous commerce into these States, that this trafic tending to strengthen the Enemy both policy and interest required should be suppressed during the War, that the money lent us by the French nation to support our credit and enable us more vigorously to pros ecute the War ag’t the Common Enemy was chiefly employed in this injurious Commerce, that France seeing her aid of money applied to such nefarious purposes and no effectual measures taken by the United States to prevent it, complained of this trafic so hurtfull to both nations, ... we wish to retain the French nation as friends, but not to admit them into our Councils. . . . The establishing of a National Bank under our particular circumstances appeared to Congress a desirable object, and if properly supported by the au thority of the several States, promises to be generally useful. Extract reprinted from Stan V. Henkels Catalog, no. 1170 (June 2, 1916), p. 34, which states that the original four page RC was signed by Joseph Jones, James Madison, and Edmund Randolph. Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sr. Pha. 10 February 82. Mr. Mullahan will deliver 3 prs. of Shoes for Mrs. Digges, and two pair of Slippers for Mrs Rogers. I take the liberty of requesting your care of them. He has given me a memorandum of some shoes for your Lady, which shall be forwarded by the first opportunity when they are done. I wrote to you abt 3 weeks past by Mr Richardson respecting my Situation abt money matters. 1 You will now receive a public Letter on that Subject. 2 I expect Mr Wright here in a few days 3 & wish most earnestly to have it in my power to return to Maryland—& am confident you will have me assisted all you can—excuse me for troubling you on this subject. Present me to yr Lady. Yrs. Dr. Sr., with great esteem, Dani Carroll RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 Not found. 2 Undoubtedly Robert Morris' February 9 circular letter to the states concerning the reestablishment of “domestic Credit,” for which see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 4:191-96. 3 That is, Turbutt Wright, who was elected to Congress the preceding November, but did not take his seat until April 29, 1782. JCC, 21:1152, 22:217.
