330 February 11, 1782 Samuel Livermore to Meshech Weare Dear Sir, Philada. Feb. 11th. 1782 The post has just brought me your favr. of the 29th ulto. 1 We are now earnestly engaged in the affair of Vermont. Allen, Fay & Curtis are here, a large comtee. of Congress sat almost every day last week. 2 On Saturday we sat from 11 to 3 of Clock and finally after much debate concluded to recommend to Congress to make one more offer to Vermont equal to that in Augt. last which you have seen. And to send them an agent to explain and inforce it: with this alternative that unless they comply; it shall be recommended to New Hampre. & N York to divide them at the heighth of land & to pass acts of indemnity & confirm the grants made by Vermont in cases of no prior grant, also to confirm the grants of NH. & NY, under certain equtable conditions, so as to make all partys easy, as far as possible. I confess I like this, in case they will not comply with the Resolutions of Augt last. But whether congress will agree to this or any thing else I know not. It will be opposed by one party that would make them independent on no Condition at all: and by another that would indulge them in every thing they can ask to the ruin of NH & NY both. Allen has given us long narratives of his negotiations—but palliates—& some are inclined to believe him. We have no proof his going into N.Y. as your letter says. 3 Enquiry shall be made about the fortune of your tickets and sent as soon as possible. My feet are infirm so that I am obliged to ride even to Congress. You will have a rousing letter from the financier. I hope it will have its weight; but I told him this day 4 that Vermont dispute must be settled before we pay a shilling. And also that our quota must be settled with more colour of justice. I hope Mr Lang don is on his way hither. I have the honour to be dear sir your most obedt humble servant. Sami Livermore [P.S.] I wish to know when the Genl Court is to meet. RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 Weare’s January 29 letter to Livermore is in N.H. Stale Papers, 10:479. 2 For the appearance of Ira Allen and Jonas Fay in Philadelphia the last week of January, see William Floyd to George Clinton, February 5, note 1. Abel Curtis had probably just joined them the preceding day or two. 3 Weare had reported “Mr. [Ira] Allen was twice at Canada and once at York last summer.” N.H. State Papers, 10:479. 4 Livermore’s meeting this day with “the financier,” during which he was shown a copy of Robert Morris’ February circular letter to the states, was recorded in the following entry from the superintendent’s diary. “The Honble. Mr Livermore came at my desire and I requested him to Name to me
