340 February 15, 1782 Samuel Wharton to John Dickinson 3 For Edmund Randolph’s March 18 departure from Philadelphia, see James Mad ison to Thomas Jefferson, March 18, 1782, note 6. Randolph carried with him the cipher that the Virginia delegates had promised the preceding October, for which see Virginia Delegates to Thomas Nelson, October 23, 1781, note 2, and which the delegates finally employed in their letter to Harrison of April 23, 1782. Dear Sir Sunday Afternoon, February 17th 1782. The Subject for the Deliberation of Congress to Morrow 1 is of so much Importance to all the States in Union, That I determined to be there, notwithstanding my Lameness; But I am exceedingly mor tified with the inclosed Note from the Chief Justice, and uneasy, to the last Degree, at the Resolution of your Brother. 2 If you think my Presence in Congress To Morrow will be of the least Use, I will attend, although our State will not have a Vote. I am with the greatest Esteem, Dear Sir, Your Excellency’s most Obedient & faithful Frd. and Servant, Sami. Wharton RC (PHi: Logan-Dickinson Collection). 1 Wharton probably had in mind the Vermont issue, although the only subject recorded in the journals for February 18 was the negotiation of a prisoner-of-war cartel. According to Secretary Thomson’s endorsements on the documents involved, Congress received that day a committee report on Vermont (“Delivered Feby. 18. 1782 [W] Entered on the Journal by yeas & nays March 1. 1782”), as well as a letter from Vermont commissioners Ira Allen, Abel Curtis, and Jonas Fay. See PCC, item 40, 2:251-52, 260; and JCC, 22:76-77, 108-13. 2 The enclosed note from Thomas McKean reads: “The Chief Justice presents his compliments to Mr. Wharton, and is sorry that he is under the necessity of setting out in the morning for Newcastle, from whence he purposes to return on Friday or Saturday next; but General Dickinson is in Town and will very probably accompany Mr. Wharton to Congress tomorrow. “The C.J. is proud to hear that Mr. Wharton is so far recovered.” Logan-Dickinson Collection, PHi. Dickinson’s brother, Gen. Philemon Dickinson, did not take his seat in Congress until Friday, February 22; Wharton first attended on the 25th. JCC, 22:87, 96. Wharton and Philemon Dickinson, as well as Thomas McKean and Caesar Rodney, had been elected delegates to Congress by the Delaware Assembly on February 2, 1782. The selection of this delegation was to prove a watershed in Delaware politics, when opposition arose to the nonresident status of all the delegates except Rodney. Long subordinate to its more powerful neighbor Pennsylvania, Delaware had been represented in Congress since 1774 by McKean, who lived in Philadelphia after 1774 and also served as chief justice of the supreme court of Pennsylvania. Although McKean’s plural officeholding had been controversial in that state (see McKean to Francis Bailey, July 23, 1781), his nonresident status in Delaware had not alarmed Delaware voters. With the election of Wharton and Dickinson to the delegation in 1782, however, the stage was set for a political upheaval. Wharton was a Philadelphia merchant who had only recently returned to America after a decade abroad promoting the land claims of the Indiana and Vandalia Companies, an interest arising from his early involve ment in the western Indian trade. Philemon Dickinson had lived in New Jersey since
