342 February 18, 1782 look well. The reduction of Minorca not effected—the last accts are flattering. Nothing can be done with the Cash. I fear a risque at Sea. I have lately had several Lotts in the great Swamp offered me by Genl. Wilkison who bought them at Lord Sterlings Vendue at a reasonable rate. I think I shall take them—will you join? We are all well and wish to be remembered. Love to Mrs. P. & Johnny. Patty is quite hearty. Am Dr Sir, Yours most Afftly, E B RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). 1 Not found. South Carolina Delegates to John Rutledge Sir, Philadelphia, 18 July [i.e. February] 1782 1 We wrote you on the 27 ulto. by Mr. Hall from which we have not received any of your Excellency’s favors nor had any direct accounts from Carolina. The Governor of Virginia about 10 days ago transmitted to Con gress the copy of a letter of the 27th Dec. from Genl. Green to him, 2 informing of his having received accounts from Charleston of a large reinforcement they expected there from and New York and calling on every one for assistance which he says they have it not in their power to furnish—this intelligence was referred to a Committee of Congress who had several conferences with the Commander-in-Chief and the result has been to order in all the levies from this State southwardly asjast as possible together with the Duke De Louzon’s Legion of French troops—this last to halt on the War Oak and wait Genl. Green’s further directions, the superin tendent of Finance has engaged to furnish a supply of corn and salt. We flatter ourselves that the General will still be able to keep posses sion of the Country as the enforcement from New York did not exceed 700 men and by the last advices from England no troops had sailed from there tho it was said a reinforcement of five regiments would go out in the spring—this being previous to the news of Cornwallis capture reaching there, we hope that, together with sub sequent events in the West Indies will prevent further succour going to Carolina. We hoped much to have the French troops or a part of them to join Genl. Green, but could not succeed the Genl. says. Count Rochambeau’s orders are not to divide his infantry, and the sending, on the whole, would break in upon plans already fitted for the ensuing campaign which would be entirely deranged thereby— but this at the particular desire of the Genl, should not be made
