350 February 20, 1782 eral Assembly is vested with Power to grant this Duty & that it shall be placed to the Credit of the united States in the first Instance. I am doubtful whether they have any such Authority upon a fair Con struction of the Paragraph that Respects Imports & Duties & the Appropriation of the Money arising therefrom. If this is no Hindrance I have another objection which I wish to have fairly weighed. It is this, in Case all the States agree to it & the Payment & Collecting of the Duty is enforced by Ordinances of Congress—What Assurance has one State in the Union that the Laws will be alike & equally executed & if not where is the Power of Compulsions will Congress have any or the States that are injured but an Appeal to Arms? For Instance if an officer is appointed to collect the Duty in Massachusetts we must be sensible that the Inge nuity of hundreds will be employed to Bribe him as well as to evade the Law entirely. In Case of Complaint where & by what Court is the Tryal to [be] had?—undoubtedly within the State & by the Judicial Authority thereof. But will not the whole State be a Party against the other States? & is it not possible that they may be very deeply interested in the Decission so that a fair one can scarcely be had? Will not the State whose Trade shall apparently encrease be ever suspected of conniving at & secretly favoring a Breach of the Law? The States being free & independent Sovereignties will naturally be Jealous of each other & this may possibly be a direct Means of encreasing it. It is said that Farming out the Duty will prevent any Difficulty of this Kind—But I am not certain that it will. If there is great Probability that the Difficulty which I have started will take Place, for the sake of Justice let us deprecate a Repetition of the 18th of March or something worse. I am very much in Favor of permanent & certain Funds. They must be established, or if the War is continued our Union, Indepen dence & every Thing relative thereto after all the Blood & Treasure we have lavished to support them will be in very great Danger of being lost entirely. It is apprehended that another Campaign will determine us to be free & independent States if we exert our Selves properly, a due Proportion of which Exertion I have no doubt but Massachusetts will make notwithstanding all the Difficulties she labours under. I think it is absolutely necessary that you should inform Congress as soon as possible that you agree to the Duty as recommended or that you do not—or that you will only agree to it conditionally, provided the State is credited for the Amount of the Duty. Thus have I with Freedom opened my Sentiments, pray let them not rise up in Judgment against me. I am, Sir, with great Respect, Your most humble Servant, Samuel Osgood
