February 20, 1782 351 N.B. I have enclosed a late Letter of the Financiers to Congress. 1 I was obliged to Copy it very hastily I cannot assure you it is perfectly correct. As Congress may possibly agree to forward this Letter to the States it may probably be better to keep it safe: & as the Subject Matter is also before Congress. I have also enclosed an Act of the State of Delaware for your perusal. 2 This you will see was lately pass’d. RC (DLC: Osgood Papers). 1 Osgood probably inclosed a copy of Robert Morris’ February 18 letter to Presi dent Hanson recommending appointment of commissioners to settle the accounts of the staff departments and requesting that the states grant such commissioners au thority to summon “Persons and Papers and to examine Witnesses upon Oath.” Osgood was a member of the committee whose report formed the basis for the resolutions adopted by Congress this day to settle such public accounts. See JCC, 22:82-86; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 4:250-53. 2 Osgood undoubtedly inclosed a copy of Delaware’s November 13, 1781, act ratifying the five percent impost duty, which Congress only received on February 19 in a February 12 letter from Delaware president John Dickinson. See ICC, 22'81n 1- and PCC, item 70, fols. 773-77, 783-84. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia, Feby. 20th, 1782. Nothing of importance hath passed Congress since we last had the honour of addressing your Excellency. 1 The affair of Vermont; a plan for settling the accounts between the several states and the individuals thereof with the United States; an amendment of the ordinance concerning captures on water; instructions to captains of private armed vessels; measures for effec tually bringing into port and securing sea-prisoners, in order to exchange them for our unhappy fellow-citizens condemned to loath- som prison-ships, and for their comfortable support and accom modation on shore; a report for establishing a mint, and a circular letter to the States, founded on communications from Europe and a letter from the Superintendent of Finance, are upon the carpet. When Congress shall have decided thereon your Excellency will be seasonably furnished with their decisions. We take this earliest opportunity to transmit to your Excellency the Speech of the British King; on which we take leave to make this single observation; that although it is as temperate as might be expected; yet it appears that he is determined to prosecute the war. 2 We heartily congratulate with you on our allies having taken
