February 23, 1782 353 Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sr. Pha. Feby 23d. 1782 I am much obligd to you for your favor of the 17th inst. & shall apply to Mr. Morris for the sum you mention. Considering the time I have been here, and an extraordinary expence by Keeping my horses all the winter (having been in daily expectation of being relievd) and the very expensive living in this City, the £100 cannot be deemd nearly suffict. to discharge all my engagements. I can assure you three times that sum will not do it. I therefore, & from what you say, hope that I shall in a very short time receive a Supply necessary to enable me to return. I sent the Shoes for Mrs Digges & Razer to the Care of Mr Dani. Carroll of Baltimore—& will send those for Mrs. Lee to the Care of Mr Buchanan if I do not meet with an opportunity all the way. They will I expect be ready to morrow. Feby 25th. All the intelligence we have is contained in the papers you will receive from the President & those I have sent to Mr Carroll. I sent to the printer for one for you but they were all disposd of. A few days probably will enable me to inform you partic ularly of what has happened in the W Indies. I request you to let Mr Mullahon have the enclosd as soon as possible; 1 it is of Consequence to me. Present me to yr Lady. Yrs Dr Sr with great esteem, Dani. Carroll RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 For the subject of the enclosed letter to William Molohon, see Carroll to Lee March 4, 1782. John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee Dear sir Philadelphia Feby 23d 1782 I am honored with your Excellencys favour of the 17th. Am obliged to you for your Attention to my former letter respecting money. Mr. Worthingtons Phaeton will be finished in about three or four weeks. A flag is just Arrived from Antigua wth. 180 Prisoners, by her we have an imperfect Account of an Engagement, some where near St Kitts, between the British and french fleets. Some of the prisoners say that after the French landed at St Kitts, the flag was ordered, that they were detained 8 or 10 days after she was ready to sail, that as Soon as a Vessel Arrived at Antigua, giving an Account that there had been An Engagement the flag immediately Sailed. These are
