February 25, 1782 357 7. His nonexchange only mode of retaliating for his misdeeds and corrects the mild but impolitic Capitulation of York Town. It will put stigma on us which will go down to Posterity. MS (ScHi: Middleton Papers). In the hand of Arthur Middleton. 1 These notes, apparently used by Middleton for a speech in Congress this day, represent the culmination of an effort begun the previous October by Middleton and several southern delegates opposing the exchange of Lord Cornwallis because of his “cruelties” during the southern campaign. See Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard, October 24, note 2; John Hanson to Washington, December 5, 1781, note; and South Carolina Delegates to Charles C. Pinckney, January 15, 1782. On February 18, Congress had authorized Washington to neogtiate a general cartel but forbade “the exchange of Lieutenant General Cornwallis by composition.” JCC, 22:76-77. In the meantime, however, Washington protested earlier restrictions against Cornwallis’ exchange which had prevented “the liberation of Brigadier General Scot, seven Colonels and two Lieut. Colonels, who ... are equivalent to his Lordship in value,” and relayed letters from Sir Henry Clinton proposing an exchange of Henry Laurens for Cornwallis. On February 20 Washington further protested the “secret Resolves” of February 18 prohibiting such an exchange, explaining at length “the difficulties in which it involves me personally, and the manner in which it affects . . . the public good.” See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 24:4-6, 9-12. Both letters were re ferred to a committee appointed February 20 and chaired by Elias Boudinot that recommended on the 23rd that Congress repeal the “secret resolve,” which it promptly did. Thereupon, Middleton offered a motion against exchanging Corn wallis by composition because he was not “a British general, but a barbarian,” whose progress in the southern campaign “may be traced by blood wantonly spilt, by executions unwarranted even by military regulations, and by the indiscriminate plunder of the property and destruction of the habitations of the widow and the orphan.” Demonstrating the depth of southern feeling, Middleton further proposed that unless Laurens were paroled, Cornwallis should be recalled, and that if prisoner accounts were not settled, “British prisoners be compelled to work for their liveli hood, or otherwise disposed of for the public benefit.” Despite Middleton’s impas sioned presentation this day, however, Congress adopted the Boudinot committee’s report authorizing the exchange of Cornwallis for Laurens provided assurances were obtained for the quick settlement of prisoner accounts. See JCC, 22:93-95; and PCC, item 185, 3:16, item 186, fol. 15. An early draft of the resolution Middleton offered this day is also in the Middleton Papers. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir Philada. Feby. 25th. 1782 The irregularity of the post has again left me two of your favrs. to acknowledge at once, the first of which is of the 28th Ultimo & the other of the 11th instant. My two last it seems have miscarried altogether. 1 You have been misinformed I find with respect to that article in the scheme of the bank which claims for it the exclusive privilege of issuing circulating notes. It is true Congress have recommended to the States to allow it such a privilege, but it is to be continued only during the present war. Under such a limitation it was conceived
