360 February 25, 1782 pers (Hutchinson), 4:67-69. See also Samuel Osgood to John Lowell, February 20, 1782, note 1. 3 Robert Morris’ method of “fulfilling . . . contracts” for the army had drawn Governor Harrison’s ire in both his February 7 letter to Morris and February 9 letter to the Virginia delegates, the latter of which became the subject of meetings with Morris on February 23 and this day. Despite the delegates’ explanation of Morris’ position in this letter and Morris’ rejoinder of February 26, Harrison continued to take exception to the superintendent’s reluctance to award contracts to Virginia, his attempt to dictate the means by which the state met its financial quota, and his denigration of the state’s accounting procedures. See note 1, above, and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 4:8-9, 186-87, 295, 299-301, 313-14, 465-66, 475-77, 558-59. Elias Boudinot to Elisha Boudinot My dear Brother Philadelphia Febry 26 1782 I have communicated the Contents of your Letter, to the Virginia Delegates, who desire me to return you their acknowledgments for your Services. Mr Griffin is in this Town & will be informed of it immediately. The rest is sent by Post to Virginia & will require two Months before you can get an Answer. 1 We have not the most distant prospect of Peace, but the most Vigorous Campaign on the part of the Enemy is in View. I wish I could say as much of the united States. I am fully of opinion that England will draw out their resources to the utmost, and if there is any vigor in the british Lyon yet left, we shall now see it. The South Carolina a State frigate, lately arrived from Spain at the Havanna carried in with her five valuable Jamaica Men—so that impoverished State will be in a great Measure be reimbursed for part of their enormous Expence attending that Vessel. Love to your Rib & little family in which your Sister & Susan Join. Am with great Affection, My Dr Brother, Yours Afftly, E B [P.S.] It may happen that I may want the most Confidential Person for a certain old Business. I wish you would turn your Attention to this Business. I could wish two or three, one to be Stationary over the water, the best Pay wont be wanting. I break open this to say—That I am advised this moment, that a Vessel from St Croix brings Intelligence of the Surrender of Brim stone Hill, and that 3 English ships of the Line are sunk & one French Do. 2 RC (NjP: Thorne Boudinot Papers). 1 The “Contents” of Elisha Boudinot’s letter has not been identified. 2 The British fortress on Brimstone Hill, St. Kitts, had surrendered to French forces on February 12. William M. James, The British Navy in Adversity (New York: Longmans, Green & Co., 1926), pp. 325—28.
