366 March 2, 1782 We have just reced Your Excellency Letter per Brown & shall duly Attend to the Matter therein explaind. 2 Remain with due Esteem & Respect, Your Excellencys Most Obedt humble Servant, Richd Law Oliver Wolcott RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Law and signed by Law and Wolcott. 1 Robert Morris’ February 23 instructions to James Nicholson about the construc tion of the frigate Bourbon and his letter of that date to Governor Trumbull alerting him to the purpose of Nicholson’s journey to Connecticut are in Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 4:296-98. 2 Trumbull’s February 21 letter asking for Continental support for ten companies of Connecticut troops to be raised for defense against British raids was read in Congress and referred to a committee of Samuel Atlee, Daniel Carroll, and Ezekiel Cornell on March 4. The committee’s proposal to provide Continental pay and support as requested was rejected by Congress on April 19. See JCC, 22:115n.2, 196- 200; and PCC, item 66, 2:208-12. See also John Morin Scott to George Clinton, April 23; and Connecticut Delegates to Trumbull, April 29, 1782. Samuel Livermore to Meshech Weare Dear Sir, Philadelphia March 2nd. 1782 I have drawn on you a set of bills of this date, in favour of the Hon. Rob. Morris, for one hundred pounds lawfull mony. Which sum he was so kind as to advance: and at the same time told me he had a letter from Col Langdon, informing him that my former bills wd. not be paid untill midsummer. I confess it gave me some anxiety for myself, as drawer of the bills, and some (but this I Leave you to judge of) as a member of that state on which the bills were drawn. I wish some meathod could have been hit upon to have satisfied Mr Lang don without exposing our poverty to so great a degree. And that my bills may meet with such payment as will not dishonour the state. But as the subject is painfull to me, to dwell on, and will doubtless be so to you, I shall proceed to the old story of Vermont, and that is worn a little thread-bare. Yesterday, after several days debate on the subject, a resolution was passed to strike out of the report of the Comtee. (you have the report) all that part which proposd to give Vermont another month to Comply with the resolution of Augt. last, &cad This you will very plainly see was to destroy the whole report. The debate will be taken up again in a few days; but what will be done I know not. I fear some would sacrifice the peace of N.H. & N.Y. both to gratify their darling Vermont: others will never agree to any terms that suppose the existence of their independance.
