370 March 4, 1782 the Maryland Delegates over and above the proceeds of the State Tobacco he found himself in such a Situation that he coud not return without some assistance, and I agreed to enter into a note with him for £167—payable in 30 days to a Mercht upon his promise to remit the money from Baltimore or Annapolis at farthest, and his engagement on his honor that the note shou’d not be discounted at the Bank. I have been exceedingly mortified in not hearing from him, and more so in being informd this evening that the Mercht to whom the note was given had discounted it at the Bank, & to morrow or next day 1 shall be calld upon to discharge it; The Consequence of a failure on tny part will be that no note with my name to it will in future meet with a credit there. This will take the £100 Mr Morris is directed to pay me & every shilling I can raise, so that I shall remain without a farthing to pay my board, and several urgent demands upon me. I am realy sorry that the principal sub ject of my Letters should be on this disagreable topick, but I am now reduced to the necessity of entreating you to have something done to releive me. Altho Mr. Mullahon has accounted to you for £595.12.4 by my receipt on my paying the £167 on his acct, there will be that sum Comeing to me for last year payable in Pha which I wish the Honble Council woud stop in his hands, if they can imme diately supply me with an order here for the amt, or that [you] will send this letter with a few lines to Major Jennifer who writes to me that he was to set out for St. Marys, that he may do the needful with Mullahon—at any rate under these circumstances yr Excellency and the Council will I flatter myself see the necessity [. . . ] of furnishing me with a further supply, at least for [what] is due for the present year, if it cannot be done on [ . . . ] last years Accts. I have the honor to be with great esteem Yr. Excellys Mo Ob Sev, Dani Carroll 2 RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 See Carroll to Lee, February 23, 1782. 2 Carroll also wrote the following letter to Lee on March 5: “The inclos’d is submitted to you either to lay before the Council, or to send to Majr. Jennifer who writes that he is going to St Marys where he will have I suppose an oportunity of seeing Mr. Mullahon. As I must pay the £167 this day on acct of Mr Mullahon I wish that Sum may be deducted out of the 595.12.4 for which 1 have been debited by him if the money can be replacd by the Council immediately. 1 Believe I coud borrow the money here for flour in Baltimore. “We have nothing from the W Indies since the acct by the Kitty, Meade, in the papers. It is believed here that all St Kitts is in the hands of the French and that the Briton Fleet has been waisted with the loss of 3 Ships.” Americana Collection, DNDAR.
