March 4, 1782 371 Arthur Middleton to Edward Rutledge [March 4, 1782]' Congress have authorized the proposal of Exchanging Ld. Corn wallis upon certain Conditions, among them, That of the Liberation of Colonel Laurens. 2 You will have heard of the Exchange of Gen eral Moultrie, & Colonel Pinckney before this reaches you. No far ther News either foreign or Domestic of importance has reach’d us & Nothing in a publick Line worthy of Communication has occur’d. The Business of Vermont is still on the Anvil, & we have hopes of beating it cool by perseverance & the Assistance of Cold water. FC (ScHi: Middleton Papers). In the hand of Arthur Middleton. 1 For Rutledges April 23 reply, acknowledging receipt of the information con tained in this brief “4th of March” note, see SCHGM 27 (January 1926): 13-16. 2 See Middletons Notes for a Speech, February 23, 1782. South Carolina Delegates to John Rutledge Sir, 1 Philadelphia March 4th 1782. 2 We have not been honor’d with any of your favours since the 22d Novr. last—nor have we receiv’d any Advices from Carolina which may be depended on, either respecting the Proceedings of the Legislature, or the Operations of the Army since General Greene moved down the Country, & forced the Enemy to evacuate their Post at Dorchester; We cannot but be anxious on both those Subjects, at a period so critical to the Interests of our Country, and are in daily Expectation of Intelligence, which we flatter ourselves will prove agreeable. It is with pleasure we acquaint you of our having, after much uneasiness on his Account, receiv’d a Letter from Commo dore Gillon, dated the 30th January, informing us of his Arrival at the Havanna on the 13th with five Prizes of Considerable Value. He incloses Inventories of the Cargoes &ca and a Letter for your Excel lency. We have answer’d his Letter & shall send Copies by the earliest Oppertunties from hence. We have advized him to the best of our Judgments, and according to our Ideas of the management which would be most advantageous to the Country as it is at present circumstanced; We inclose you Copies of our Letters to him, & hope will meet with approbation. Congress have had Accounts, through a good Channel, of the sailing of 19 Transports from NYork on the 18th ulto. under Con voy of the Lion of 64 & the Rotterdam of 50 Guns. They were said to be bound for Charles Town; various Conjectures are formed of the Intention of the Enemy by this manoeuvre; some suppose they
