374 March 5, 1782 subject to diminution. But as I determine to see you if possible before many weeks, I shall defer the Subject. The enclosure of Mr. Young’s Letter gave me great Pleasure, as it was at once a further Evidence of the friendship & confidence of my amiable friend. I greatly pity this young Gentleman and heartily wish he had followed the solid advice of his valuable Aunt, who certainly judged very rightly of his affairs, but 1 still hope his apparent good sense will yet enable him to surmount all his diffi culties & strike out into some important Scene of Life. To avoid the Stage would be an evidence of his Judgment & Prudence, as it can promise him no good unless his abilities were uncommonly great, and even then the substantial reward is inadequate to the risque of every other good. My dear Miss Stedman is very obliging to be grateful for a re membrance that yields so great a Pleasure in the Exercise. I was really elated during the reading of several Lines of your Letter, but alass! the Mountain brought forth a Mouse without a Metaphor. Mrs. Jackson made me promise to make her acknowledgments for your politeness in remembering her slight civility to you when in Brunswick. I must beg an Excuse for this scrawl, as 1 write with two or three Ladies chatting in the Room. Mrs. Boudinot & Susan wish most earnestly to be considered as attached to the friendly Circle at the Park, and present their best wishes for every real happiness to attend them. I am my dear Madam with the greatest respect & Sincerity. Yours most Affectly Elias Boudinot. MS not found; reprinted from PMHB 39 (July 1915): 311-12. 1 Mrs. Ferguson had been struggling to save her estate, Graeme Park, which she had inherited from her father, Dr. Thomas Graeme, since the proscription of her husband, Henry Hugh Ferguson, for cooperating with the enemy during the British occupation of Philadelphia. See Simon Gratz, “Some Material for a Biography of Mrs. Elizabeth Fergusson, nee Graeme,” PMHB 39 (July 1915); 257-321,385-409; John J. Loeper, Elizabeth Graeme Ferguson of Graeme Park (Hatboro, Pa.: Hatborough Histori cal Society, 1974); and these Letters, 8:473, 11:264-65. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard Mr dear Sir, Philadelphia March 5t. 1782 Am much obliged to you for the returns enclosed in yours by the Post. Am much pleased with my negroes having got well over the Pox. By some late resolutions of Congress the Superintendant of Finnance is to appoint a Commissioner for settling the Accts of each State to the last Day of Deer. 1781. This being a temporary Business perhaps of but one or two Years
