378 March 5, 1782 us the honor to enclose to us; which, together with such parts of your letter as were proper to be made public we read in Congress; but he added to his confession that the overtures were only intended to prevent an expected inroad from Canada into their country. Our most sanguine views will not flatter us with a hope that Congress can possibly be brought to any thing more than to give an express guarantee to us up to the 20 mile line and to New Hamp shire to Connecticut River, and perhaps to support that guarantee by the arms of these United States. But this is doubtful. In this view it is evident that some State measure must be taken to secure the interjacent country. What we propose is, that the line of partition between us and New Hampshire, held up by one of the Resolutions in the Report, be settled by concurrent Acts of the two States. We are the more anxious for this measure, because as it will take nothing from us as a State which in point of soil or jurisdiction is worth our possessing, so it will add vastly in both to New Hampshire, and probably induce them to make common cause with us in reducing the revolters to obedience by arms. This measure we conceive may without breach of faith be adopted by the two States, as it is evident that Congress will not determine the controversy on the ground of submission held up by this aforesaid Resolution, and confirmed by the Acts of the two States. Be assured, Sir, that we shall be unwearied in our endeavors on this and every other subject to promote the interest of the State we have the honor to represent, and that we are, with the greatest respect your Excellency’s most obedient humble servants, J no - Morin Scott. Wm. Floyd. Tr (MH-H: Sparks Collection). 1 See Samuel Livermore to Meshech Weare, February 19, 1782, note 2. 2 See New York Delegates to Clinton, March 12 and 15, 1782. 3 Although the New Hampshire legislature had authorized the raising of two regiments commanded by John Sullivan “to be sent to the western part of the State to subdue those border towns attempting to join Vermont, the governor did not call the force into service because the legislature subsequently voted to pardon those residents who had previously revolted. See N. H. State Papers, 10:476-78; and Charles P. Whittemore, A General of the Revolution. John Sullivan of New Hampshire (New York: Columbia University Press, 1961), p. 184. John Morin Scott to Richard Varick Dear Varick, Philadelphia, March 5th, 1782. The Secretary for foreign Affairs has on Leave, determined to go home for a few weeks. This Leave he obtained in a Letter to Con gress, assigning three Reasons for his request, to wit, the sitting of the Legislature, the Business of the Court of Chancery, and the
