March 5, 1782 379 necessity of attending to his own private affairs. 1 On reading the Letter, many Members expressed their disapprobation of the 1st & 2d Reasons declaring that in their Opinions his Acceptance of his appointment under Congress had determined his Office as Chan cellor. Unluckily I was balloted in as one of the Committee on the Letter, & being first in the order of Choice, was of course Chairman. Thus placed in a delicate situation, I determined to act frankly & candidly with Mr. Livingston. I accordingly at a private Interview with him on the subject, acquainted him with my Opinion as well as that of many of the other Members, upon which he requested that our report might be so framed as to pass over his 1st & 2d Reason unnoticed. This was accordingly done. 2 I expect that on his Arrival at Poghkeepsie he will make a formal Resignation of the Chancellorship. 3 If he should not, the Council of Appointment may perhaps conceive the office already vacant, and proceed to a new appointment. Tho’ I have too much spirit to beg for an office; yet that same spirit will ever be mortified when I am slighted in the disposition of an office. I am the eldest in the profession; and yet the Office of Chancellor was heretofore given to another. I hope that in the next disposal of it, I shall not be treated with the same affrontive neglect. Should it be offered to Me, I should have no Objection to accept of it; provided the Secretaryship could be secured to my son. This provision for both would in my humble Opinion be no more than an Act of Justice to one who has done and suffered so much in the Cause as I have. I am, With great sincerity and affection, Dear Varick, Your friend and humble Servant, Jno. Morin Scott. P.S. Be pleased to communicate this Letter to the Govr. 4 It is re ported this Moment as from the Minister of France that the Enemy were preparing to evacuate the S. States. MS not found; reprinted from the Historical Magazine, 2nd sen, 3 (January 1868): 21. 1 Robert R. Livingston, secretary for foreign affairs, had requested a “few weeks” leave of absence in a February 27 letter to President Hanson. PCC, item 79, 2:95-96 2 See JCC, 22:114-15. 3 Livingston refused to resign as chancellor of New York, however, and instead submitted his resignation as secretary for foreign affairs in December because of the press of chancery business. George Dangerfield, Chancellor Robert R. Livingston of New York, 1746-1813 (New York: Harcourt, Brace and Company, 1960), pp. 177, 477n.28. 4 Although Scott’s March 5 letter to Governor Clinton was destroyed in the New York State Archives fire of 1911, the following brief extract was published in Bur nett, Letters, 6:31 In.3: “I count myself happy, that I arrived here so opportunely as I did; as the Consideration of the Report, a Copy of which is inclosed in our official Letter came on next day.”
