March 12, 1782 385 recapitulation of past Transactions, so well known to the Legislature of every State, it was hoped would not only convince them of the faithful & strenuous Endeavours of Congress to maintain the Comon Cause, by providing for the present defence and guarding against future ills, by calling on the States for Aid & support but would also awaken them to a Sense of the public danger and engage them to a more liberal & punctual Compliance with the requisitions then made, as the only means of saving our Country from impend ing Calamity. It gives us pain to observe that our hopes and expecta tions have been again disappointed, and that by the backwardness & dilatoriness of the States to grant the necessary Supplies, the well laid plans of our General have been disconcerted and the designs of Congress to give ample relief to the public Creditors have been again frustrated. It is necessary to observe that the Operations of War do not admit of delay. There are times & Seasons which must be watched and which if suffered to pass unimproved, cannot be again recalled that secrecy in planning & vigor in executing are the only means of ensuring Success. We may now inform you, that relying on the States for their quotas of Men & Money called for, measures were concerted for the attack of New York. The States were pressed in the most earnest manner, to have their Troops ready in the Field, and to furnish the necessary supplies of Money to carry on the Operations. The Moment for Action arrived, but the General found his Ranks so thin, and even the small Force he had collected so ill supplied, that it became imprudent to proceed, by which a very large Expence in preparation was accrued in vain. Had it not been for the aid of Money granted by our generous Ally—for the provi dential arrival of his Fleet in the Chesapeak and almost a miracu lous coincidence of fortunate Circumstances, which by the blessing of God, were happily improved, our public Affairs must now have been in the most distressing Circumstances. This inattention in the States has almost endangered our very existence as a People, and indeed it is to the overruling providence of the great Governor of the Universe, that we must ascribe our political Salvation at this Day, amidst so many Tryals, difficulties & distresses as have been struggled with in this complicated & bloody War with one of the first Powers in the Universe. It is true that the most brilliant Suc cesses have attended our Arms & those of our illustrious ally, the last Campaign. We are now providentially in a Situation, from which we may hope for the most happy termination of the War, if not wanting in our own Exertions and in timely drawing forth those resources which are within our Power. Our Work is but fairly begun, and the special & peculiar Circumstance of the present Moment, requiring the most vigorous preparations for an Early Campaign, would ren der our silence criminal did we not urge you on this Occasion to activity & decision.
