March 12, 1782 387 2 Boudinot wrote “find” over “think,” but let both words stand. 3 There is no February 9 letter from Superintendent Morris to Congress, but for the extract from his circular letter to the states of this date beginning “It gives me great Pain,” see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 4:196. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My dear Sir, Philadelphia March 12th. 1782. Am much obliged by the Papers sent—they were just right and am glad you kept back the money. As to the appointment I mentioned to you, 1 it is for the purpose of settling and adjusting the Accts, of the department for which it is made up to the last day of Deer. 1781 & no farther. I can’t imagine it can take above two Years at most, and there is little or no Prospect of Peace in that Time. The Evacuation of Charles Town appears probable, in order to bring all the Force to New York. I hope to see you the first week in Aprill, as I shall set off the first day of that Month. I must beg the Favour of you to put in some of the comon Seeds for me—such as Sallad—Cabbage &c &c. Will you be so good as to mention to Mr. Morton that I reed, the Papers he sent me, but that nothing can be done, without the Soldiers discharge which was not sent. There is no news but a few successful Skirmishes both from Genl. Green’s Army and Genl Heaths. The British are closely hemmed in at Charles Town & Savanna. Their Troops have been on Johns Island, in the Harbour of Charles Town. Every Thing from Europe looks like a vigorous Campaign. If Rivington is right abt. the affair of Kempenfelt, I think Count De Guichen will come off by the Lee. Patty has been here this Morning & is very hearty—Her Aunt had done every thing necessary about her Affairs some time ago. Will you be so good as to direct Josey to have the Orchard trimmed—and to get half a Doz. or a Doz. Peach Trees from Mr. Rickey’s & set them out about the Hog Yard & stake them well—Also a few English Cherry Trees & set them down the lane inside the Fence. Mrs. B & Susan join me in love to Mrs P. & Johnny, remember us to Molly & the Servants. I do not know but Mrs. B. will write to Mrs. Hetfield if she can get time, but that is matter of doubt. Give our Love to her & the Children. Shall be very glad to hear of Mr Southard’s recovery from the small Pox. Am my Dr Sir, Yours very Afftly, E B [P.S.] Susans best Admirer informs her that there is an Instrumt maker in Town at your Service. RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). 1 See Boudinot to Pintard, March 5, 1782, note.
