March 12, 1782 393 determined shall in every Instance be the invariable Rule of our public Conduct. We beg that not a moment may be lost in conveying them to Us; and at the same Time we wish to be furnished with directions whether we are to keep our Seats or Leave them till further Order from the State, in Case an arbitrary Majority should force the detested independence upon Us. Permit Us Sir to assure You & the Legislature that in this and every other Instance we shall devote ourselves to the promotion of the true Interest of our State as it stands connected with the real welfare of those united States; and that We shall be punctual in our official informations on this & every other Subject. With respect to Colonel Willets affair, the prospect is very dis couraging. 3 His restoration to his Rank seems almost impossible on the present Plan of military Arrangements. We have, as You ad vised, conferred with the Commander in Chief; who while he pays particular Attention to the Colonel’s military Merit, seems to be of Opinion that should the Door be opened for his restoration it would be productive of so many similar Applications, which could not be complied With, as would prove injurious to the public by giving great & just Cause of discontent. Of the same opinion is the Assis tant Secretary of War; who if we may judge from our Conversation with him, can never be induced to recommend it to Congress to restore the Colonel to his Rank. He gave also the fullest Reason to believe that General Lincoln will be of the same Opinion. However Sir to convince You and Colonel Willet, that we shall leave no Method unessayed to serve him & the State in this Instance We shall apply to the Secretary of War immediately on his Return from Boston, which is hourly expected. 4 We have the Honor to be, with the greatest respect, Your Excys. most obedt humble servts. P.S. Mr. Scott begs Leave to remind Your Excellency, that he wishes, if it is the Intention of the Legislature that his Attendance in Con gress should be of any considerable duration that the Supply of Cash mentioned in his Letter to You may be specie. The Concurrent Resolutions of the Senate and Assembly Respect ing Colo. Van Schaicks Supercedure was laid before Congress be fore Mr. Scott arrived But as they Could not be prevailed on to do any thing in his favour at that time, 5 we Intend as Soon as the Secretary at war arrives from Boston to See whether we Cannot get him to Report Something that will do him Justice. 6 FC (NHi: Duane Papers). In the hand of John Morin Scott and endorsed by him: “Dr. of official Letter to Govr. Clinton 12th Mar. 1782.” 1 See New York Delegates to Clinton, March 5, 1782. 2 See Samuel Livermore’s first letter to Meshech Weare, this date, note 2.
