402 March 17, 1782 the need for a drastic change in the prosecution of the war, appeared in the Pennsylva nia Packet, March 14, 16, and 19, 1782. 4 Letters from Francis Dana of July 28, September 3 and 15, 1781, to the president of Congress were read on March 15 and referred to a committee of Daniel Carroll, Arthur Lee, and John Morin Scott. SeePCC, item 89, fols. 554-61; and Miscellaneous Papers of the Continental Congress (M332), reel 2, fols. 170-77. John Hanson to Philip Thomas Philadelphia March 18th 1782 Dear Doct. 9 oQock at Night I have this moment received your letter of the 10th, No 11. I shall in a little time be in great want of money—if you Can get me £100, it will make me easy. I should be under no difficulties if the state would remit but half of what is due me. Your mother has taken some medicine from Doctr. Bond, and I think she is much better. Sunday week, little Kit was seized with a sickness at the stomach, followed by Vomitting which relieved her. The next day, we prevailed on her with some difficulty, to take a dose of powders which Doctr. Bond prescribed. It operated downwards, and she has ever since been very well. A Gent at New York writes to a Gentleman in this City, that a Considerable Change had taken place in the British ministry. Lord Howe was placed at the Head of the Admiralty, in the room of Lord Sandwich, and that Lord Shebourn, and Colo. Barry were taken in—that General Howe was appointed to Command the Forces in Ireland, and that Sir Guy Carlton, who was formerly Governor of Canada, was appointed to the Command of the British Forces in America, in the room of Sir Henry. This day a Vessel Arrived from St Thomas’s, the Capt informs that Charles Town was Evacuated the 24th ult.—that one of the Transports from that place put into St Thomass through stress of weather, with part of the Garrison who gave the Account. He further informs that the British fleet under the Command of Sr Samuel Hood were blocked up in Antigua by the French, who, haveing been joined by Some Spanish Ships of the line, Amounted to 40 Sail. This latter intelligence is of the greatest importance. God grant it may be true if it is, the French may do as they please in the West Indies—And will have it in their power to afford us Any Assistance we may stand in need of the next Campaign. However you will observe this is Ship news, and therefore not much to be relyed on. If it be true, we shall have it Confirmed in a few days. I think it is beyond a Doubt that Brimstone Hill has Surrendered, and that the whole Island of St Kitts is in possession of the French— the English had Contrived to leave about 600 men on the Island, with intention to reinforce the garrison, but they were immediately
