March 18, 1782 403 attacked by the French, and the whole Killed and taken, upon which the Garrison Surrendered. Ned Barnes perhaps may be lurking about Laurance Oneals, if he is not gone down to H Hanson. I wrote to Hoskins by the last post about him, if he is there I suppose he will inform me—hope you will hear Something about him by the next post. Your mother and little Kit joins in love to you and little Beck and Johnny who I am very glad to hear are well. Our Horses are Still refractorey which puts it out of my power to send for A &B. which I fear will be a very great disappointment. Since writing the above the Capitulation of St Kitts is Come to hand which is inserted in the inclosed paper. RC (MdHi: Hanson Letters). In Hanson’s hand, though not signed. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Philada. March 18th. 1782 In my last to you on the subject of the map in the hands of Dr. Smith I informed you of the little chance of getting a copy of it for you. 1 Nothing has since occurred wch. affords the least expectation from that quarter, but I have met with a bundle of old pamplets belonging to the public Library here in which is a map published in 1650 which from this & other circumstances I am pretty confident is of the same impression with that of Doctr. Smith’s. It represents the South sea at about 10 days travel from the heads or falls, I forget which, of James River. From the tenor however of the pamphlet to which it is immediately annexed 2 & indeed of the whole collection there is just ground to suspect that this representation was an arti fice to favor the object of the publications which evidently was to entice immigrants from England by a flattering picture of the ad vantages of this Country, one of which dwelt on in all the pamphlets is the vicinity of the S. Sea, and the facility it afforded of a trade with the Eastern World. Another circumstance wch. lessens much the value of this map to the Antiquary is that it is more modern by 25 years than those extant in Purchase’s pilgrim, 3 wch. are referred to in the Negociations between the British & french Commissaries touching the bounds of N. Scotia as the first of Authenticity relating to this part of the world. 4 If notwithstanding these considerations you still desire that a copy be taken from the map above described I shall with pleasure execute your orders, or if you wish that a copy of {the Map of) Virga, or of the whole country may be taken from those in Purchase, your orders shall be equally attended to. I much doubt however whether that book be so extremely scarce as to require a transcript from it for the purpose you seem to have in view.
