404 March 18, 1782 You will find in the inclosed gazette all our latest intelligence both from Europe & the W. Indies. The Ministerial Speeches in Parlia ment as well as other considerations render it pretty certain that the system for recovering America will be changed. A peace with Hol land & a suspension of the expensive operations in America, are to give their resources full play agst. France & Spain, whilst all the arts of division & seduction will probably be practised on the U States. Congress have taken no step in the business of the Western terri tory since the report of the Committee of which I have already given you an account, & which we hear arrived at Richmond on the day of the adjournment of the Assembly. 5 We wish it to undergo their consideration, & to receive their instructions, before we again move in it. Mr. Randolph, by whom this goes, 6 will probably be present at the May Session & will be possessed of every information that may be necessary. 1 refer you to the interview with him which I hope that occasion will afford you for other congressional intelligence. I am this moment told that pretty certain information is come to hand of the final reduction of St. Kitts. With great regard I am Dr. Sr. yr. obt. friend & Servt. J. Madison Jr. 7 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:101-2. 1 See Madison to Jefferson, April 3, 1781, note 3. 2 For Edward Williams’ Virginia in America, Richly Valued (London, 1651) in which appeared a “Faithfull Map of Virginia in America,” see Madison, Papers (Hutchin son), 4:102nn.2 and 3. ... , , „ , 1CO -, 3 That is, Samuel Purchas’ Purchas, His Pilgrimage, 4 vols. (London, lbZ5). 4 See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:102n.5. 5 See Madison to Jefferson, November 18, 1781, note 1. s Edmund Randolph left Philadelphia for Virginia this day in the expectation that he.would be returning to Congress, and he later declared his intent to do so after his lune reelection to another term. But in a letter of June 24, which is in the Executive Papers, Vi, he reminded the House of Delegates that his duties as an assembly delegate, especially “my nomination to the committee for preparing and publishing a state of the title of Virginia to the western territory,” and his duties as attorney general would detain him in Virginia until December. By that time, however, Thomas lefferson, who was also a member of the title committee, had accepted Congress appointment as a peace commissioner and his departure for Europe left Randolph with the major responsibility for drafting the document. Thus in a December 10 letter to the House, which is also in the Executive Papers, Vi, Randolph asked to be relieved of his seat in Congress, explaining that “the vindication of our western pretensions is the only reason why I request . . . the nomination of a successor. See also Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:90n.4, 5:308-9, 400n.4, 9:427. Before leaving Philadelphia Randolph also received from Superintendent Robert Morris a blank commission and instructions for selecting “a receiver of the Continen tal Taxes in the State of Virginia.” See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 4:379-80. Randolph’s accounts for £804 in Pennsylvania currency for “travelling to, attending on, and returning from congress” between July 6, 1781, and March 30, 1782, are in the Continental Congress Papers, Vi. For an assessment of Randolph’s eight-month term in Congress, see John J. Reardon, Edmund Randolph: A Biography (New York: Macmillan Co., 1974), pp. 42—54, 64—65.
