March 19, 1782 405 7 Madison sent the following brief letter to state commercial agent David Ross on March 23: “Be Pleased to Pay to the Order of Messrs. Peter Whitesides & Co. The Sum of Two hundred Pounds this Currency, being the Amount I have received from them on Account of the Virginia delegation, and for which I have given them two dfts on you of this Tenor & date.” Ross Correspondence, Miscellaneous Microfilm, reel 653. Vi. For Madison’s expense account for the quarter December 20, 1781 to March 20, 1782, which he sent to the Virginia Auditors at about the same time, see Madison Papers, (Hutchinson), 4:108-10. Elias Boudinot to Elisha Boudinot My dear Brother. Philadelphia March 19th. 1782 Your Favour of the 13th Instt. is now before me. You have by this Time reed, my last by Coll. Griffin’s Boy, who left this last Week 1 — Since which we have had several arrivals both from Europe & the West Indies. I can only deal in generals—Every Thing on the other Side of the Water looks Favourable. We shall not be deserted there. No hopes of Peace from any Quarter. Brittain talks ofchanging the War—from an internal to a naval War. The Minority have a Vain hope that if they withdraw their Troops, that we will submit even yet to the dominion of the King of Brittain. We have been amused with a Vague report of the evacuation of Charles Town on the 24th Feby but I believe without Foundation in Truth. The Capitulation of Brimstone Hill is arrived. The French seem to be anxious to reduce the rules of War to some consistency with the Principles of Benevo lence. The English Islands will be almost tempted to submit to the Gallic Power, to obtain a happier State than even the british Govern ment allows them. The Island of St. Kitts now enjoys a Right of Trade to all the World both Friend & Foe. As to Mr. Wykoffs Lotts, you must have been misinformed as I know he sold one for £3 per acre. As to the particular Business you mention, I wish you to make some Agreemt with the Person, if he may be depended on. It will be a Matter of great Consequence, especially to obtain a diary of all the Men of War coming in & going out of NYork from day to day—with their Force—men—Names, &:c &c, where bound &c. I could venture some Expence out of my own pockett for so essential a public Service. We hear this Morning that Count de Grasse is Cruizing off Anti gua with 42 Sail, being reinforced with four Spanish & some French Ships. The British national Debt was settled the 5th Augt last, at 178 Millions funded—21 Millions unfunded—the annual Interest 8 Millions. 2 The Back Lands are not taken up. Congress seem afraid of it, and I see nothing will be done while I am here.
