410 March 19, 1782 RC (NN: Miscellaneous Collection). 1 See Madison to Pendleton, this date, note 1. 2 Jones had also recently spoken to Washington about the Vermont claims and had asked him for a copy of his frank letter of January 1, 1782, to Vermont governor Thomas Chittenden respecting those claims. To this request Washington had re sponded in a brief note of March 10, for which see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 23:419-22, especially note 40. 3 See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:75—76. Samuel Livermore to Meshech Weare Dear Sir, Philadelphia March 19th 1782 Your letter abt. the quota—and the five million, has been read and committed to a committee. I find it will be violently as well as unreasonably opposed. 1 I have not proceeded so fast as 1 should have done for want of certain members of congress now absent, but which will soon be here, that 1 expect will be friendly. Is it possible that self interest should be able to blind so great & good men as members of Congress are? I shall do my utmost however to get justice done. Tis said Charlestown is evacuated—doubtfull—Be that as it will: The debates in the Brittish parliamt. & success of the French in the west indies are much in our favour. Now for a word about Vermont. If we should extend west of the river to the ridge of mountains, it must be done with the good will of the people living between the river and those mountains otherwise the acquisition would cost N.H. more than it is worth. Now if that district wish to joyn us, as has been often hinted, and as has been undoubtedly the case heretofore. It would be very agreable; and easy to accomplish. I suppose the legislature of NY would gladly settle with the legis lature of N.H. without the intervention of Congress a line on the ridge of mountains as a boundary line between N.H. & N.Y. and if the people on the east of the mountans approve of it. This would throw us into a state of perfect tranquility. Let NY settle with the people west of the mountans as they can agree, it would not concern us. But on the other hand if the people between Connecticut river & the mountains are against us, and choose rather to divide by the river, let us make ourselves easy without them. I think it is in the power of the people west of the river east of the mountains to turn the Scale for their own benefit and ours. We have been taking pains to serve them as well as ourselves. They will never be allowd east of the river, nor N H west of the mountains. Nature sets the mountains
