March 19, 1782 411 for the boundary: And if Vermont shd be annihilated or rather disallowd as a state, N.Y. will have a share of it, that is, the part west of the mountains. I have the honour to be your most obedt. Servt. Sami Livermore RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See Livermore’s first letter to Weare of March 12, 1782, note 1. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir Philada. March 19th. 1782 Yesterday’s post brought me your favor of the 11th instant, 1 which if my recollection does not fail me is an act of supererogation, the terms of our contract entitling Mr. Jones alone to your correspon dence of the present week. To show you how acceptable it is to me I have selected the inclosed gazette published here last week as con taining the greatest portion of entertaining & interesting matter which we have of late reed. I leave it to Mr. Jones to transmit you the gazette of this morning. 2 The Ministerial Speeches with other circumstances place it be yond a doubt that the plan for recovering America will be changed. A separate peace with the Dutch, a suspension of the offensive war here, an exertion of their resources thus disencumbered against the naval power of France & Spain and a renewal of the arts of seduc tion & division in the U. States will probably constitute the outlines of the new plan. Whether they will succeed in the first article of it can not be ascertained by the last intelligence we have from Holland. It is only certain that negociations are on foot under the auspices of the Empress of Russia. Mr. Randolph set off this morning 3 & will probably reach you nearly as soon as this. I leave it to him to make known other particulars. I am &c. J. Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:106. 1 See ibid., pp. 48-9. See also Joseph Jones to Pendleton, this date, note 1. 2 Madison and Jones apparently enclosed the March 16 and 19 issues of the Pennsylvania Packet. 3 Madison was mistaken, for in the Virginia delegates’ letter of this date to Ben jamin Harrison, Arthur Lee stated that Edmund Randolph left Philadelphia “yester day,” and in his letter to Madison of May 5 Randolph inquired about a committee report made on foreign dispatches referred to committee “on the morning of my departure,” which was March 18. See JCC, 22:140-41; PCC, item 186, fol. 17; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:110—11, 208. See also Madison to Thomas Jefferson, March 18, 1782, note 6.
