412 March 19, 1782 Samuel Osgood to John Lowell Dear Sir. Philadelphia March 19th. 1782 I have the Pleasure of congratulating on your Appointment as a Delegate to Congress. I am very much pleased with the Appoint ment also of Mr. Sullivan. 1 I hope that Duty which you certainly owe to the public will direct you to lay aside every private Consideration & to proceed without Delay to this Place. Your Services here, I have no Doubt will greatly merit the Acknowledgments of our State—you will give me leave to expect that you will not even hesitate a Moment as to the Line of your Duty. (I shall be very happy to return as soon as the State is represented. I have not yet forgot the Heat of last Summer altho it was said to be very moderate; I shall not be fond of bearing the Burthen of the Heat of another.) Should you proceed immediately this Way you will give me Leave to suggest one Matter which is of very considerable Consequence to our State. The Boundary between our State and Nova Scotia has & probably will again be bro’t into View in the Course of the Spring. 2 How far we extend upon the Eastern Coast seems to be a Matter of Uncertainty—here you will find few or no Documents respecting the Matter—It will therefore be happy for the State if you can furnish yourself with Evidence as to this Affair previous to your Leaving the State. General Lincoln arrived here last Sunday. We have no News far ther than what you will see in the Papers. I am, Dear Sir, very sincerely your most obedient Servant, Samuel Osgood RC (DLC: Osgood Papers). 1 Lowell and James Sullivan had been elected to Congress on February 28 follow ing the resignations of Samuel Adams and Artemas Ward as delegates, but Sullivan resigned on April 23. See JCC, 22:278; and Journal of the Massachusetts House of Representatives, February 28 and April 23, 1782, pp. 623, 687. DLC(ESR). For Elbridge Gerry’s letter of February 9 to the Massachusetts Assembly also signifying his desire “to decline the Acceptance of a Seat in Congress” because of his privilege dispute with Congress, see Burnett, Letters, 6:300-301; and these Letters, 14:430-33, 435-36, 15:3-6. 2 The subject of Massachusetts’ boundary with Nova Scotia came before Congress again on August 15 as one of the many elements in a long committee report on the “peace ultimata” which had originally been submitted on January 8. See JCC, 23:468-522.
