March 26, 1782 421 John will cheerfully repay it on his return but believe me such is my situation here and has been for some time that I am not able to advance him any money not being able from the public or my private accot. to obtain sufficient to keep me from going into Debt. If I can raise as much as will discharge what I owe here and pay my expences to Virga. I shall return the latter end of next month. We have no particulars yet of what fell into the hands of the French on the reduction of St. Christophers & Nevis nor any account what has become of the fleets since. There are appearances of an accom modation between Holland and Great Britain negociation being to open under the mediation of Russia. We have a report of an em barkation being abt. to take place at New York but to what amount or where destined is not conjectured. Our best respects to Mrs. Hunter. Yr aff Friend & Sevt, Jos. Jones. [P.S.] Has the Company any choice Madiera. I see they advertise for Sale that & other Wine. RC (ViU: Hunter-Garnett Papers). Samuel Livermore to Meshech Weare Dear Sir Philadelphia 26th March 1782 I have reed, your favour of the 12th instant informing me that Vermont had receeded from their late encroachments. 1 I had heard this frequently by common report; but there is no official account of it in Congress. The Comtee. upon your letter about the 5 million dollers quota of the 8 million have made a report plumply against us. 2 I have got a day assignd for debate which is next Monday. As I suppose we shall soon hear from Vermont in a manner that will end that tedious business, I hope to see you in May. There is no news from Charlestown since my last. Genl Washington is gone to North river. I have the honour to be your most obedient servant. Samuel Livermore 3 RC (Nh-Ar: Vermont Controversy Collection). 1 Weare’s letter is not in PCC, but for Vermont’s recession from some of her previous territorial claims, see Livermore’s first letter to Weare of March 12, 1782, note 2. 2 See ibid., note 1; and Livermore’s first letter to Weare of April 16, 1782, note 1. 3 Livermore also wrote the following brief note to Weare this day. “I am this moment desird to send you the enclosed [not identified] which will speak for it self. My letters being seald & sent to the office.” Vermont Controversy Collec tion, Nh-Ar.
