422 March 26, 1782 James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir, Philadelphia, March 26, 1782. A letter has been lately received from you by the President of Congress, accompanied by a bundle of papers produced from the Cherokees by Colonel Campbell. 1 As it appears that these papers were transmitted at the request of the late President, it is proper to apprize you that it was made without any written or verbal sanction, and even without the knowledge of Congress; and not improbably with a view of fishing for discoveries which may be subservient to the aggressions meditated on the territorial rights of Virginia. It would have been unnecessary to trouble you with this, had it not appeared that Colonel Campbell has given a promise of other pa pers, which if he should fulfil, and the papers contain any thing which the adversaries of Virginia may make an ill use of, you will not suffer any respect for the acts of Congress to induce you to forward hither. MS not found; reprinted from The Papers of James Madison, ed. Henry D. Gilpin, 3 vols. (Washington: Langtree & O’Sullivan, 1840), 1:116. 1 For Jefferson’s letter to Thomas McKean of December 20, 1781, and the “bundle of papers” that Col. Arthur Campbell had taken from the Cherokee Indians during his expedition in January 1781, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:141; and PCC, item 71,2:137-222. For the original request for the “Cherokee Archives,” see these Letters, 17:188. On March 22 Jefferson’s reply and its enclosures were referred to a commit tee of three which apparently issued no report. PCC, item 186, fol. 18. Massachusetts Delegates to John Avery Sir Philadelphia March 26th. 1782. Yesterday we receivd your favour, covering a Resolution of the Genl. Assembly of the 6 instant, directing their Delegates to solicit Congress to adopt speedy & effectual measures for the relief of American Prisoners. 1 Congress have not been inattentive to the Distresses of our Sea men who are in the power of the Enemy, and have directed Letters to be wrote to Sr. Henry Clinton remonstrating against his Conduct towards them; & we have now Commissioners gone to Elisabeth town, 2 who are directed, among other things, to endeavour to ob tain an enlargement, or at lest a better treatment of our people who are prisoners with the Enemy. Letters have also been wrote to our Ministers in Europe, on the same Subject; if these measures do not answer our purpose, Congress will, we trust, make such Retalliation as will force the Enemy to a more humane Conduct.
