March 26, 1782 423 The Ballance of Marine Prisoners is so much against us, and Still increasing that it is perhaps impossible for us to obtain a full ex change so long at lest as our Privateers are so very inattentive to bringing into port & confining the Prisoners which fall into their hands. Had it not been for this neglect, the evil complained of would have been avoided. However we have ample means in our Power to inforce a better treatment of our Prisoners, & the fault is ours if it is neglected. You will be pleased to inform the HonL Assembly that we shall pay Strict attention to their instruction, & contribute what may be in our Power, to obtain the end proposed; but we hope it will be remembered, that unless effectual measures are adopted by the Several States, for bringing in and safe keeping, the prisoners taken by our privateers, we do not see what can be done by Congress which will be effectual for the redemption of our Marine prisoners in the Enemy’s hands. We are Sir with great Esteem, your most obedient, Humbl. Servants, Geo Partridge in behalf of the Delegates RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written and signed by George Partridge. Addressed: “John Avery Esqr. Secretary of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Boston.” 1 For this resolve seeking relief for American marine prisoners, particularly those held in Great Britain, see Journal of the Massachusetts Senate, March 6, 1782, p. 305. DLC (ESR). 2 That is, Henry Knox and Gouverneur Morris, for whom see Elias Boudinot to Knox and Morris, March 14, 1782, note 1. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir, Philadelphia, March, 26th. 1782 The Superintendant of Finance informs us, that he has sent a Proposition to our Executive which he conceives will answer the object of our motion relative to the supply of Beef. 1 The latest Advices from Europe assure us of the determination of the british Cabinet to continue the war, & it is believd that the distressing our Commerce will be their principal object with regard to the United States. France & Spain are sending strong re enforcements to the W. Indies; & it is probable they will maintain the superiority of those Seas, in spite of all the efforts of the Enemy.
