March 27, 1782 425 John Morin Scott to George Clinton Dear Sir Philadelphia March 27th, 1782. Having as We heretofore informed You, defeated the Attempt to saddle our State with the Report a Copy of which We some time since had the Honor to inclose You, 1 Matters now remain open for something to be done, on our part. For this purpose We are Anx iously waiting for the Result of the Legislative deliberations of our State on so interesting a Subject, to serve as a Guide to our Steps. Our Opponents in Congress are now lying perdu, waiting a Change in the Representation of the Southern States, which will soon hap pen, and We know not but to our disadvantages. I have prepared a set of Resolutions turning on general Principles, and in themselves almost self evident, calculated to stand as a Barrier agt. the next attempt in favor of the Grants, and which I shall move as soon, as I can, after having waited a few days longer for some official Tidings from the State. 2 We have had several strange Manoeuvres for the promoting of General Knox to the Rank of Major General which have at Length succeeded. By this Step Brigadiers Clinton, Moultrie and McIntosh (his Seniors in Office) are disgraced. 3 I was one of the strenuous opposers to this Promotion; the Particular Movements for and against which You will clearly see, and discover the Tempers of the several Members on the Occasion, from the Journals, a Copy of which, if the Mail does not close too soon I will here inclose You; otherwise I shall send it by the next Opportunity. I am as sensible as any Man living of General Knox’s Merit. But in my Opinion no Merit whatsoever can justify the Promotion of one officer in a Way that disgraces another. It is a Measure unjust in itself. It is moreover highly impolitic as it gives general Uneasiness to the Army. In this Case there are three Brigadiers disgraced, and probably three States affronted. But General Knox, it is said, at the Promotion of Briga dier Deportail over his Head was greatly disobliged, and would have retired from the Service had he not been promoted, That his Serv ices cannot be dispensed with, That his promotion therefore be came indispensible. All this may be true, but his Promotion however necessary should have been attended with the like Promotion of his Seniors who, as there are already a Surplus of Majors General, might have been honorable retired or been laid aside on half pay. 4 MS not found; reprinted from Burnett, Letters 6:321-22. 1 See New York Delegates to Clinton, March 4 and 15, 1782. 2 See New York Delegates to Clinton, March 29; and Scott to Clinton, April 2 and 9, 1782. 3 Henry Knox had been promoted to major general on March 22 by a vote of eight
