April 2, 1782 437 2 The New York delegates attempted unsuccessfully to have the “Concurrent Reso lutions of our Legislature” entered on the journals on April 3, but succeeded in their request the following day. See JCC, 22:161-73. 3 See Scott to Varick, April 9, 1782. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir, Philadelphia April 2d. 1782 We had the honor of receiving your Excellency’s letter of the 23d ult. with the Papers for Congress which we shall present. 1 We are obliged to your Excellency for your intelligence from the W. Indies, which we hope will be confirmd. Mr. Foster Webb will receive every assistance we can give him. 2 The Copies enclosd 3 will inform your Excellency of the arrange ment made at the war-Office, relative to the arms and clothing for the Recruits of our line. We are apprehensive, that in the present state of things, it will not be enough for the recruiting Officer to assure the People that Clothing will be ready at the Rendezvous, for those that enlist; but that he must have some Uniforms with him to convince it is not an imposition, & that they will not suffer, as others have done, for want of Cloths. But your Excellency will be better able to judge whether this is necessary; & therefore we shall not press for the Clothing to be sent previous to the Recruits being raisd, ‘till we have the honor of hearing from you. 4 We enclose a Resolution of Congress, for retaking such of the british Prisoners as may have escapd from confinement. 5 With the greatest respect, We have the honor to be, Yr. Excel lency’s most Obedt. & most Humbe. Serts. J Madison Jr. A. Lee Jos. Jones RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Lee and signed by Lee, Jones, and Madison. 1 For Harrison’s letter, with “Papers for Congress” concerning the seizure in North Carolina waters of the British Schooner Three Friends by a Virginia privateer (Capt. Cornelius Schermerhorn), which had precipitated a dispute between governors Har rison and Thomas Burke of North Carolina, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:114, especially n.l and 2; and Randolph B. Campbell, “The Case of the Three Friends', an Incident in Maritime Regulation During the Revolutionary War,” Virginia Magazine of History and Biography, 74 (April 1966): 190-209. In a letter of March 22, enclosed with the above, Harrison had appealed to Congress to review the case, especially since the Virginia admiralty court had already condemned the prize. The committee that was assigned Harrisons letter on April 4 reported on the 23rd but its report was apparently assigned on May 29 to a new committee whose report has not been found. The case of the Three Friends appears to have been caught up in the larger issue of preventing illicit trade with the enemy, however, and on June 14
