April 8, 1782 441 most conspicuous. The latter was obligd to acknowlege in the News papers that he was in partnership with Mr. D. but pretended he thought him a man of honor. The Doctor by Letters of the strongest recommendation endeavord to deceive Congress into a renewal of their confidence in him, with a new & important appointment. There are Letters in town from Mr. Searle, late member of Con gress, declaring that he has been repeatedly scandalizd by hearing Mr. Deane utter the abuse against America & France, which is containd in his intercepted Letters, at Dr. F ’s table, without any reprehension from the Doctr. Under all these suspicions, Dr. Frank lin is appointed one of the Commissioners to negociate a peace, because France wills it; & Congress are complaisant enough to say— they trust in his zeal & integrity, God forgive them! The Fishery, 1 am afraid, is the object & will be the sacrifice of this appointment. This question will come on in Congress, & I think your ablest members shoud be here. But Instructions from Congress will avail little, if a corrupt Commissioner is entrusted with them, who certainly never meaning to return to this Country, will feel himself very easy about our reproaches, while he is enjoying in France the reward of his treachery. I know from what passd at the treaties we concluded, that to monopolize the Fishery is the object of France, & I am most sure that Dr. Franklin will be the instrument of effecting it. The members from your State, & from Connecticut, seem de sirous of admitting Vermont into the Confederation; but it appears very doubtful, whether this can be done agreable to the Confedera tion or consistent with true policy. The small States, upon this precedent, may dismember the great ones; or as they have an equal voice in proportioning the Quotas, may combine together to bur then the larger States with the whole expence. To acknowlege their independence without giving them a voice in Congress woud an swer I conceive every purpose of attaching them to our cause, with out hazarding our union by admitting them a member of the confederation. Please to remember me to Mrs. Warren who I hope feels the benefit to her health & spirits, of better Society & a more healthy situation. I have not time to write to our friend Mr. S. Adams, but be so good as to assure him that I remember him with unalterable respect & affection. Genl Ward, Mr. Otis, & all our worthy friends have my best wishes. I am, with the truest esteem, Dear Sir, yr. most Obedt Servt, A. Lee RC (MHi: Warren-Adams Papers). 1 Lee also sent Warren a list of these bills on April 15 with the following brief
