April 15, 1782 451 shall be happy if the State is represented so that I can leave this Place in June. Enclosed you have Ten Dollars our State Money reed, for the Ten Dollrs. New York & New Jersey Money which you enclosed to me. I am, Dear Sir, with Sentiments of the highest Esteem, your most humble Servant. Samuel Osgood RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 For James Lovell’s sudden departure from Congress, see Lovell to Nathanael Greene, April 2, 1782, note 3. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear. Philadelpa. 15th April 1782 I have this day reed Rhina’s Letter of the 30th last—And am Very sorry that you do not injoy the best Health; The Cares of a Family I fear too much oppresses you: some part of that Burden I hope soon to relieve you from, as I intend if it shall be in my Power to leave this Place in the course of the next Week. I am surprised to hear that Col Root does not intend to come here till after the May Assembly. Govr Trumbull wrote that he would with Mr Benja Huntington come forward about the Middle of April. Col Root himself wrote to me in the same Manner. I expected by one of them to have a Servant to Return with Me. But it seems I shall probably be disappointed— however I will Endeavor (tho’ at present do not know how I shall) to do without. My domestic Affairs I am Very sensible renders it necessary for me to Return, and as the Time which I proposed to tarry here will in a few days End I shall consider myself justified in leaving the Service wheither those Gentlemen shall be here or not. 1 Mr. Law is in dayly Expectation that Mr. Browne will be here with a Horse for him, for which only he is detained. He will Return as soon as he arrives, and I shall expect his company. Browne wrote that he should set out about the lOt of this Month, if so he will be here this Week. You will not suffer a Moments Uneasiness if I shall not Return by the Time I have proposed—As Company and Other Circumstances may occasion some delay. This Letter will probably be delivered to you by Mr. Lovell of Boston a Delegate of Congress who is returning home. My last Letters were the 6t of April and 26t and 19t of March. 2 May you injoy more Health and less Oppression of Spirits than I fear you suffer. By the divine Goodness I am well—my kindest Love to my Children. Yours with the kindest Affection, Oliver Wolcott RC (CtHi: Oliver Wolcott, Sr., Papers).
