458 April 19, 1782 deeply engaged in Indiana affairs—but as I thought when with you so I now think, that Virginia has no real cause of Alarm. She stands on firm ground and I do not think an inch of it will be yielded—or can be wrested from her but in the mode she has herself prescribed—she stands on the Ground of the Constitution of the Foederal Union—what can shake this foundation but the wrath of an offended Deity. Quirks, Quibbles, shifts (and I assure you they are not wanting on the other Side) will in this age (whatever they may do in another Century) give way to sound reason and common sense. You will find nevertheless on perusing the late Papers and in con versations industriously circulated by the Indiana &c. Ciaimers and their abettors what unwearied pains has been taken to Cultivate the weak arts of finesse and imposition—the principal aim of which is to catch Credulous Gudgeons with the double view of accumulating money by the sale of shares, and requiring an accession of Interest by interesting a greater number of Proprietors. They have even gone so far as to order an Utopian Patent to be made out to Mr. Paine the Author of some pieces in favor of their Claims 2 in contra diction to which we must in prudence follow them and fight them with their own weapons. I therefore request that you will have inserted in one or both of the Virginia Papers the following Para graph as coming from the Authority of a 3 viz Notwithstanding the Impudent assertions, and false state of facts which has been held forth to the Public in various paragraphs of the News papers on this Continent and industriously Circulated by the Lordly claimants of millions of Acres of that Western Terri tory which Virginia has Ceded under certain restrictions for the Publick Good to the United states, and has steadily refused to grant to a few Individuals, We can assure the Publick—that the Honorable Congress, as a Body, has taken no step to confirm the Unfinished grants of the British King to those politic Individuals who at the expence of Millions yet unborn would erect themselves into petty Sovreigns, and defeat the purposes for which so many brave men have shed their dearest Blood in this virtuous Struggle for equal Liberty. Be not therefore Guild in the purchase or even acceptance of a Title which is the shadow of a Shade. 4 RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 Bland took his seat in Congress on April 15. JCC, 22:180. 2 See James Madison to Thomas Jefferson, April 16, 1782, note 5. a In his May 2 reply Tucker promised to “comply with your injunction relative to the affairs of the Virginia cession,” but it is not clear whether he submitted the following paragraph to either of the Richmond newspapers. See The Bland Papers, ed. Charles Campbell, 2 vols. (Petersburg, Va.: Edmund & Julian C. Ruffin, 1840-43), 2*79- 80 4 For the continuation of this letter, see Bland to Tucker, April 23, 1782.
