460 April 19, 1782 during the War. You have seen a Little of this by being here, even in a time of the circulation of Paper Currency and since the reduction o f it—you may easily suggest additional difficulties. We had a Letter from you on this Subject to the Delegation delivered us on the late change—and now only wish to satisfy you that no pains on our part has been wanting to Accomplish the views of the States. Arms Ammn. & some white Serge is now procured. We have nothing new, it is to be expec[t]ed Holland will soon Ally—and Spain may in time follow her example. You will by Genl Twiggs, Colo. McMurphy learn what is current here. We have long expected Colo. Few here, and the expectation of seeing him every day prevents my now writing him. My best Compliments to Mr. & Mrs. & Miss Wereat. I expected a line from him before this. I am Sir, Your mo Obt S. Edwd. Telfair RC (PHC: Roberts Autograph Collection). Addressed: “Colo. James Jackson, Au gusta, Georgia, favored Colo. McMurphy.” 1 Lt. Col. James Jackson (1757-1806) commanded the Georgia State Legion raised in the summer of 1781 at the suggestion of Nathanael Greene, accepted the keys to Savannah when British troops evacuated the city on July 11, 1782, and later became governor of Georgia and a United States Senator. DAB. 2 For the “Capture of Clothing” the preceding summer, see James Lovell to Eliz abeth Dana, August 23, 1781; for the “conduct” of Commodore Alexander Gillon of the South Carolina navy, see James Madison’s committee report on the issue in Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:110-13, especially notes 5 and 6. Arthur Lee to Joseph Willard Reverend Sir, Philadelphia, April 20th, 1782. I had yesterday the honour of receiving from the hand of the Rev. Dr. Elliot, your very obliging letter of the 28th ult., together with a diploma for an honorary Doctorate of Laws from the university over which you preside with so much deserved reputation. I beg sir, you will be assured, and that you will assure the visiters and fellows of the university, that 1 have the highest sense of the honour they have conferred upon me. 1 Laudari a laudatis varis would be flattering to a person infinitely less deserving of praise than I can possibly think myself. It was with peculiar pleasure I read a diploma, conceived in language pure and elegant enough to have flowed from an ancient pen. Liberty and letters sir, are so inseparably connected, that a lover of the one cannot but see with sincere satisfaction the cultivation and prosperity of the other. It is to the light which literature had diffused that we owe the assertion of our liberties, and to the contin uance of the same we must owe their establishment and perma nency. The eminent share which the university of Cambridge had in
