April 21, 1782 461 diffusing these salutary lights, by her example and instructions, has made her proportionally respected; and a perseverance in the same course will render her an honour and blessing to these United States. For an institution of such utility it is patriotism to pray, esto perpetua. The American Academy of Arts and Sciences hath done me great honour in admitting me into their society, instituted for the best of purposes by gentlemen capable of fulfilling them. 2 I entreat you sir, to lay before them the due sense I have of the favour with which they have distinguished me, and to assure them that I shall ever be happy in contributing every thing within the compass of my poor abilities, to promote the valuable object of the institution. Do me the favour sir, of accepting my thanks for the very polite and obliging manner in which you have signified the proceedings of the university and of the academy, and my best wishes for your health and prosperity. I have the honour of being, reverend sir, with the utmost respect and esteem, your obedient servant, Arthur Lee MS not found; reprinted from Richard Lee, Life of Arthur Lee, LL.D., 2 vols. (Boston: Wells and Lilly, 1829), 1:178-79. Addressed: “To the Rev. Joseph Willard, President of the University of Cambridge, and Secretary of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.” 1 Harvard College had awarded Lee an honorary LL.D, on December 19, 1781. Louis W. Potts, Arthur Lee: A Virtuous Revolutionary (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1981), pp. 253-54. 2 Lee was elected a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in Boston after he submitted a scientific paper on the effects of lightning striking the house in Philadelphia rented by the French minister La Luzerne. Ibid., pp. 253-54. See also Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee, March 28, 1782. Arthur Lee to Samuel Adams My dear friend, Philadelphia April 21st 1782 I cannot lose so good an opportunity as that of Dr Eliot, of enquiring after your health & hoping you are happy. The Session of the Assembly of Virginia in May, calls me from Congress for a month or two to attend my duty there. 1 Indeed I do not see of what material use my attendance here can be, where I can only lament what I can not prevent, and make vain efforts to re deem an infatuated Majority from the bondage of folly & private interest. For what can be expected from an Assembly in which a Member is allowd to sit, who is avowedly an Agent for the Enemies to our cause & Country, an Insolvent & a profligate Adventurer. I mean Mr. Samuel Wharton. 2 This man, Sir, that in a Petition on the table of Congress 3 declares himself insolvent, not only sits & votes,
