462 April 21, 1782 but treats the Members with magnificant Dinners. I am perfectly persuaded that it is the interest of the Companies which this Man is an Agent for and a member of to reduce us to the domination of G. Britain, because their Members being chiefly British & of great influence they woud by that means be secure of obtaining the Lands which it is impossible they shoud do while we are independant. And as these Agents are using every art to seduce us & to sow dissention among the States, I think they are more dangerous than the Enemy’s Arms. Every motion relative to Vermont & the Cessions of the other States is directed by the interests of these Companies. I have in vain movd for a purifying declaration, from each member that he is not concerned in them. The Motion was evaded by three days chicane, & remains undecided. 4 As to Vermont, I am clear we have no power to admit them into the confederation, & I am doubtful of the policy of it, if the power were unquestionable. The small States are already combining to dismember the large Ones. The addition of another will be a dan gerous accession, & the disposal of property in quotaing each being by Votes not by interest, it will enable the small States to throw the whole burthen of the war upon the large Ones. But your Delegates do not think with me, which I lament. Sure 1 am that with the admission of this little State the confederation will end; its present inequality being as much as it can bear. 5 Please to remember me to Mrs. Adams, to Genl. Ward, Mr. Bow- douin & his Family. I do not believe your fellow-Citizens will ever part with you again, & therefore dispair of seeing you here. I am with unalterable esteem & affection, dear Sir, yr. most Ob- edt. Servt. A. Lee RC (NN: Samuel Adams Papers). 1 Lee, who had obtained a leave of absence on April 9, remained to vote in Congress on the 20th. He apparently did not leave Philadelphia until April 24. See JCC, 22:177, 204; and James Madison to Edmund Pendleton, April 23, 1782, note 4. 2 Delaware delegate Wharton had earned Lee’s contempt because of his activities as agent for the Indiana Company. 3 Not identified. 4 For Lee’s April 18 motion that all delegates declare whether they were “personally interested” in the claims of any of the land companies, see JCC, 22:191-94; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:158—59. 5 Lee’s concern had also been articulated recently by South Carolinian Pierce Butler, who was then in Philadelphia. In an April 5 letter to James Iredell of North Carolina, Butler pointed to a decline in congressional authority and decried the lack of southern unity, which he felt was underscored by North Carolinas failure to maintain representation in Congress. “So greatly altered is this once august body,” Butler lamented, “that as little as possible is intrusted to them, And yet, among them are many individuals of the strictest honor, and great worth; but, as a body, there is little dependence to be placed on them. The Northern interest is all prevalent; their members are firmly united, and carry many measures disadvantageous to the Southern interest. They
