464 April 22, 1782 1 Charles Thomson’s March 5 letter to Weare, enclosing “twelve [privateer] commis sions with bonds & instructions” in response to Weare’s February 19 request for a new supply, is in PCC, item 18, fol. 21; and the Weare Papers, MHi. 2 See JCC, 22:185-90; and Livermore’s first letter to Weare of April 16, note 2. 3 See Livermore to Weare, April 29, 1782. Theodorick Bland to St. George Tucker April 23d 1782 It is reduced to a certainty that terms for negociating a general Pacification have been offerd by the Mediating to the Belligerent Powers obliquely including the U.S. but rejected by G Britain in an apologetical Memorial, with which the High Mediators (the two Imperial Courts) do not seem well Satisfied—especially as France has Signified with Singular moderation her willingness to accept them for the sake of Peace, how wise! how Politic! how magnani mous! That nation seems determined to form the most striking contrast to the Character & conduct of Britain with what superior dignity does she rise and lift up America with her as it were to shew her to the astonished World. I find the Picture is eight Guineas instead of six as we supposed—you may pay the two guineas (Sur plus) to Mrs. Bland—it will help her on. Give my love to Fanny—God Bless you. RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). A continuation of Bland to Tucker, April 19, 1782. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard Mr dear Sir, Philadelphia Aprill 23d 1782 On full Consideration, I am clear of opinion that your Presence here will be necessary for the purpose you mention. I will mention my Plan, then you can do as you think best. As I am to tend the Superior Court at Trenton on the 2d Tuesday in May and as I shall want to be at Princeton a Day or two before Court, I shall wish to leave this on the Thursday or Friday before. The Stage leaves Princeton about Nine oClock on every Tuesday & Thursday—and the Coach leaves it at the same hour on Saturdays. From this State I think you had best leave home with the Waggon on the first day of May—leave the Waggon at Princeton & either take Horse or get into the Stage the next Morning and you will be here by Night, by which means you may stay here from Thursday the 2d May till Thursday the 9th. We will then return to Princeton in the Stage Coach all together. The only objection to this Plan is leaving the Horses at
