466 April 23, 1782 Report. We are Anxious to know what Laws our Legislature has passed Respecting the Grants at their last meeting, and your Excel- lencys opinion of their probable Effects. The Question for Accepting the Session made by our State, to the United States, of the Land to the Westward is now under the Consid eration of Congress, and will I expect be Determined in a few Days and from what I Can Collect of the Sence of the house It will be agreed to, and I believe at the Same time the Cession made by Virginia will not be accepted it being Cloged with Some very Dis- agreable Conditions, besides Reserving to themselves an unreason able Extent of Country which it is thought by many they have no Just Claim to. 2 For the News I must Refer you to the Inclosed papers. MS not found; extract reprinted from Burnett, Letters, 6:334. 1 Congress had refused on April 17 to set a date for consideration of this report. JCC, 22:185-90. 2 See James Madison to Thomas Jefferson, April 16; and Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, April 17, 1782, note 3. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir Philada. Api. 23d. 1782 We have had here the same reports of the evacuation of Char leston which your letter of the 15 recites, 1 but the wished for con firmation is still wanting. That it will take place in the course of the Campaign cannot I think be doubted if the military succours are yielded by the states in any proportion to the call for them & the maritime superiority of our Ally in the W.l. should keep up the apprehensions of the British Garrisons from that quarter. This su periority was for a while somewhat endangered by the arrival of Rodney before the Brest Fleet. It is now said though upon very unauthentic grounds, that the latter with a large reinforcement of land troops is safe at Martinique. This augmentation of the French force with that of Spain, to say nothing of the Dutch which is also said not to be contemptible, must submit every thing that is British in that quarter to the mercy of their Enemies. We have reed, some communications from Europe, but none of them are of late date. It appears from them that the pride & stub bornness of the British Court had rendered abortive the mediatory purposes of Vienna & Petersburg. Unless therefore the misfortune in Virga, sd. have broken their spirit as well as blasted their hopes, and made them suitors for a renewal of the interposition of these Courts, no immediate expectations can be retained from that quar ter. Nothing is said with regard to the separate negociation be-
