April 23, 1782 467 twe[en] England & Holland. The recapture of the possessions of the latter with other circumstances has so entangled her with France that it will be very difficult for her to accomplish a separate pacifica tion, even if she should be disposed to it. Vermont & the Western lands are still the themes which exercise our politics within doors. The Committe to whom the last applica tion of the former to be admitted into the Confederacy was referred have according to expectation, reported that the measure is war ranted by the Articles of Union & required by the engagements of Congress to them & expedient in itself. The true secret is that the Vote of Vermont is wished for as an auxiliary agst. the Western claims of Virga. Some of the small States may indeed wish for it also as an auxiliary to their party, but no other motive can prevail with D. & M. 2 Some of the E. States which are anxious for the admission of Vermont see this and impede the adjustment of Western boundaries on the ground of the Cessions, lest that event should be followed by a secession of those 2 States. The radical impediment however is the influence of the land companies. We have in the course of the week past very sensibly experienced this influence. 3 As no answer had yet been given to the Cession of Virga. & the Legislature is shortly to meet, the Delegates thought it proper & accordingly proposed that the determination of Congress on that subject should without delay be come into. Every artifice that could perplex the case was imme diately exerted: and it is extremely contingent, whether we shall be able to obtain an explicit answer to our reasonable request. We shall however continue to press it till Congress take some step which will either directly or indirectly, positively or negatively decide on the case & let the State know on what ground it is to form its measures. Mr. Lee sets off tomorrow morning in order to be ready for his duty at Richmond. Mr. Jones will follow about a week hence. I regret much that Mr. Randolph’s unnecessary return to Virga, will in con sequence expose her vote to the risk of division. 4 I shall urge him to face about again & wish for the co-operation of yourself & his other friends. Unless the A—y 5 remove his apprehension of pecuniary distress his past experience will it is little to be doubted render him callous to every argument on that subject. I am Dr. Sir very sincerly yrs, &c. J Madison Reprinted from Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:177-78. 1 For Pendleton’s letter, see ibid., pp. 151-52. 2 That is, Delaware and Maryland. 3 See, for example, Arthur Lee to Samuel Adams, April 21, 1782. 4 For the departures of Edmund Randolph, Arthur Lee, and Joseph Jones, see Madison to Thomas Jefferson, March 18, note 6; and Lee to Adams, April 21, note 1. Until Lee’s return on June 27 only Madison and Theodorick Bland remained to represent Virginia. Madison’s concern was realized on four occasions when their vote was divided—on another Bland was absent. See JCC, 22:242, 286, 294-95.
