476 April 29, 1782 Events of an interesting Nature will take Place in that Quarter. We might perhaps mention what your Excellency may not have been fully informed of, that the Court of London has refused the Media tion of the Emperor and Empress, upon the Condition that America shall be an Object of the negotiation, so that the Business of Peace will be deferred till after another Campaign. We feel ourselves disappointed that the other Gentlemen in the delegation are not here to relieve us. Mr. Wolcott is about to Return. 3 Mr. Law has so depended upon messenger Browne’s being here before this Time, that from an Accident depending upon that cir cumstance, he will be compelled to tarry a little longer. We hope that your Excellency will Accelerate the Other Gentlemen to come for ward, as the State ought to be represented. We are with the highest respect, your Excellency’s Most Obedt. humble Servants. Oliver Wolcott Richard Law [P.S.] A Contract for furnishing the Army for this Campaign has been made—the Rations to be furnished in the State of N York at 8d our money each—some variation from these if troops shall be fur nished more easterly. 4 There are two Gentlemen of N England concerned in the Contract—Mr. Edwards of Stockbridge and Mr. Phelps of Greenvil. The Bourbon Frigate will be finished. 5 Mr. Morrice had not a few days ago determined upon his Nomination of a Commissioner to settle the Accounts of the State against the U States. 6 It is not intended that any Commissioner shall be appointed for the State to which he belongs. Mr. Burral will doubtless be appointed by the Superintendant to settle the Accounts of the Com missary’s Department. RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). In the hand of Wolcott and signed by Wolcott and Law. 1 That is, 21st. 2 See Connecticut Delegates to Trumbull, March 2, note 2; and John Morin Scott to George Clinton, April 23, 1782. 8 Wolcott actually left Philadelphia this day. See Law to Trumbull, April 30, 1782. 4 See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 4:525-33. 5 See ibid., 4:580-81, 5:48-49. 6 Melancton Smith of New York was ultimately appointed to this post. Ibid., 5:189-90, 338. Samuel Livermore to John Hanson Dear Sir Philadelphia 29th April 1782 Having seasonably notified the state of New hampshire that I should, with their approbation, resign my seat in congress about the first of May; and the state having chosen other delegates to repre-
