478 April 30, 1782 tion. I Am not yet perfectly recovered, am Generally feverish— began this morning to take the Bark, which with the help of Exer cise I am hopes I shall in a few days be restored to my former health. Poor little Caty has not yet lost her Ague and fever. She rides with us every morning and the Ague Comes on every day about one oClock. Doctr Bond makes light of it and thinks that the Ague at this season of the year rather favourable much better than to have a fever without the Ague. Am in hopes it will soon wear off. I wrote you by Colo Rawlings. Inclosed you have the last paper. I can Scarce write. Your mother thank God is pretty well. Our love to you and Dr little Beck and John. J H RC (MeHi: Fogg Collection). Richard Law to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia, April 30, 1782. As Genl Wolcott set off yesterday on his Return home, Connecti cut is now unrepresented—am much disappointed the Gentlemen have not come forward agreable to the Encouragement your Excel lency was pleased to give in your last. Tis now neer seven Months have ben absent from home, and shall return as soon as Mr. Brown arrives, by whom expect a Horse for that purpose. Since ours of Yesterday, nothing Material has occurred—except some foreign Communications from the French Minister which will be officially communicated to your Excellency by the Secretary of foreign Affairs—the substance of which I beg leave to hint is—That, thb the Mode was not fully concluded on, yet that his Most Christian Majesty was determind to give us the most effectual Aid, to enable us the ensueing Campaign to exterpate our Enemies, wholly from our Land—and that the States relying upon such Assistance might be induced to make their utmost Exertions to cooperate therewith— that Attempts would be made by the British Court, to negotiate with the States separately—in order if possible to weaken and divide us, and to strengthen the impression they have ben endeavouring to make upon the Mediating Powers that America was not firmly & fully fixed in her Independance, but still retaind an Animum Rever- tendi, a wish to Reconciliation could She but emancipate from the Usurpation of Power, which she now labours under. 1 Inclose you the News Paper of the Day—and remain with the highest Sentiments of Esteem & Respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt, humble Servt. Richd Law.
