480 April ?, 1782 Arthur Middleton to Ralph Izard [April ? 1782] 1 Majr. B. 2 with whom I have eat daily & with much pleasure spent the greatest part of my Idle Hours (of leisure) a few days since remov’d into the Country; Mrs. B. some weeks ago presented him with another Son. He has a family of such fine Children that I hope he will still encrease it. I dined with them yesterday and they were all well, & I desired to be remembered to all their friends [when?] he writes. Present my affectionate Compliments to Mrs. Z, I observe what my Maria write concerning her, 3 & hope she may yet find me the friend she is kind enough to suppose me. Many Endeavors have been made to procure publick Assistance to Gen. Greene, but none has hitherto succeeded so far as to give a probability of seeing anything effectually [done]. Orders are issued to the Secretary of War and Superintendent of Finance to take measures for Supplying the Southern Army with necessaries by Land or But I have not heard of anything being done in Consequence & from their apparent Temper I cannot say I hope for much. It is an unwellcome reflexion that our Security must in great measure depend upon the Evacuation or forbearance of our Enemy. 4 FC (ScHi: Middleton Papers). In the hand of Arthur Middleton. 1 This letter was undoubtedly written in late April or early May 1782 because of Middleton’s reference in the third paragraph to the “Orders . . . issued” to Benjamin Lincoln and Robert Morris for “supplying the Southern Army” adopted on April 20, for which see JCC, 22:201—2. 2 Maj. Pierce Butler. 3 The references are to Izard’s wife, Alice DeLancey Izard, and sister (Middleton’s wife), Mary Izard Middleton. 4 Middleton also drafted the following notes for a letter to an unidentified South Carolinian, perhaps Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, at about this same time. Two documents mentioned in the manuscript—Nathanael Greene’s letter of March 11 and Vermont’s accession “to the preliminary resolve of the 20th August”—were received by Congress on April 20; and Middleton was awaiting the arrival of John Rutledge, who took his seat in Congress on May 2, 1782. The departure from Philadelphia of Gen. William Moultrie—who, Middleton wrote, “sets out this day”—could not be determined. Recalling the event some twenty years later, the general noted only that he had set out with his family “early in April.” William Moultrie, Memoirs of the American Revolution, 2 vols. (New-York: Printed by David Longworth for the Author, 1802), 2:354. “Hall is coming there who says that 12,000 Troops and 17 Spanish ships are waiting for the French to go against Jamaica. “[].?] to hear of Pendleton & Hyrne. “Account of the arrival of Dunmore and Thomson at New York “Genl. Moultrie sets out this day. “His by Cochran [. . .] should have his by Motte but Darrell.
