482 May 1, 1782 the envy & jealousy naturally excited by superior resources & im portance. N. J., Penna., Delaware, Maryland, are influenced partly by the same considerations; but principally by the intrigues of their Citizens who are interested in the claims of land Companies. The decisive influence of this last consideration is manifest from the peculiar, and persivering opposition made agst. Virginia within whose limits those claims lye. The Western claims, or rather a final settlement of them, are also thwarted by Massachussetts and Connecticut. This object with them is chiefly subservient to that of Vermont, as the latter is with Penn sylvania & Maryland to the former. The general policy and interests of these two States are opposed to the admission of Vermont into the Union, and if the case of the Western territory were once removed, they would instantly divide from the Eastern States in the case of Vermont. Of this Massachussetts & Connecticut are not insensible, and therefore find their advantage in keeping the territorial Con troversy pending. Connecticut may likewise conceive some analogy between her claim to the Western Country & that of Virginia, and that the acceptance of the cession of the latter, would influence her sentiments in the controversy between the former & Pennsylvania. The Western claims are espoused by Virga., N & S Carolinas, Georgia & N. York, all of these States being interested therein, S. Carolina is the least so. The claim of N. York is very extensive, but her title very flimsy. She urges it more with the hope of obtaining some advantage, or credit, by its cession, than of ever maintaining it. If this Cession should be accepted, and the affair of Vermont termi nated, as these are the only ties which unite her with the Southern States, she will immediately connect her policy with that of the Eastern States; as far at least, as the remains of former prejudices will permit. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand and endorsed by him: “Observations relating to the influence of Vermont & the territorial claims on the politics of Congress. May 1. 1782.” Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:200-202. 1 For the status of the Vermont question and western land cessions, see Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, April 17, note 3; Arthur Lee to Samuel Adams, April 21, note 4; and William Floyd and John Morin Scott’s April 23 letters to George Clinton. It is not clear why Madison prepared these observations at this time— perhaps as an exercise in sorting through the complex issues involved Or to provide Joseph Jones, who left Philadelphia the following day, with information for state officials. See Madison to Edmund Randolph, this date, note 5.
