May 4, 1782 487 abeth Town on the 31st M[arch] 1782, and mutually exchanged their respective Commissions, with the Competence of which the sd. Commissioners were mutually satisfied. That after various propositions and a lengthy negotiation of the different subjects of their Mission, General Clinton put an End to the Business, on General Washingtons Commissioners declaring the following propositions made on the part of the Enemy, alto gether inadmissible. 1st. The Exchange of Citizens & Seamen for Soldiers. 2d. The ransoming Prisoners of War for money. 3d. The Exchange of Prisoners of War as formerly, without the settlement of the past Accounts. 4th. Permission to british Commissaries for purchasing of Provi sion in the united States for british Prisoners of War, at the market Price. And the like declaration on the part of the Enemy’s Commissioners to the following Propositions made by Genl. Washington’s Commis sioners on the part of the united States. 5. The liquidation of all past Accounts or the payment of a Bal lance of £200,000 Sterl. in full of all demands on Acct of the subsistence of Prisoners. 6. Immediate Provision for the future subsistence of Prisoners of War. 7. The liberation of American Citizens in all parts of the world when captured by the Arms of Brittain. It appears to your Committee that Genl. Washingtons Commis sioners acted with the greatest Propriety in refusing their assent to the propositions made on the part of Sir Henry Clintons Commissioners. That the demand of the Exchange of Soldiers trained to & taken in Arms, for the peaceable Citizen taken from his Habitation, with out Opposition, would in the opinion of your Committee, not only be absolutely destructive of the comon Interest of these States, but is altogether contrary to the rules of War among all civilized Nations— tend to the encouragement of the dishonorable practice of stealing away the peaceable Inhabitants of the Country, and expose them while employed in domestic & civil employments, to all the Inconve- niencies & disadvantages of a Military Life. That the demand of Soldiers in Exchange for Seamen taken from private Vessels of War or Trade, in the opinion of your Committee is equally inadmissable for similar Reasons. The Seamen of this Class, as soon as exchanged, return again to the general mass of Citizens, and add nothing to the immediate defence of the States or the increase of the Army, and if received in Exchange for Soldiers, would tend to the reduction of the Army beyond any possibility of recruiting. Every Soldier costs the united States a certain Sum of
