488 May .4, 1782 money, which would be a continual Loss, if those redeemed by Exchange are not to return to the Army from whence they were taken. It is farther the opinion of your Committee on the fullest Consid eration, that the reasons offered by General Washington’s Commis sioners to those on the part of Sir Henry Clinton, for refusing to admit the other propositions insisted on by them, are sufficient & unanswerable and ought to be adhered to by Congress. It also appears to your Committee that the demands made by General Washingtons Commissioners & refused by those on the part of the Enemy, are founded on Reason & Justice, except as to the Ballance demanded in full for Prisoners Subsistance, which your Committee have not been able to ascertain with that precision neces sary to form a proper Judgment thereon—and also as to the libera tion of American Citizens in all parts of the World. It appears to your Committee, that the Powers vested in Sir Henry Clinton, as may be concluded from the Commission set forth in the report, are confined to certain limits lying on the Atlantic Ocean, and the Parties were fully satisfied with the Competence of each others Powers, on the Exchange thereof, therefore in the opinion of your Committee, the objects of the negotiati[on] should not have ex ceeded the Powers under which the Conferrence was held, unless so far as respected any Prisoners who might have been sent without those limits by the Agency of Sir Henry Clinton—under this Con sideration therefore your Committee recommend the following resolutions. Resolved—That Congress do approve the Conduct of the Com missioners appointed by his Excellency General Washington for settling a Cartel &c with the Enemy, and do order those Proceedings & report to be printed for the information of the several States. Resolved That Congress do still continue to be sincerely desirous of settling a general & liberal Cartel for the Exchange of Prisoners, as also general Principles for such Support & Comfortable Subsis tence of Prisoners of War as will tend to soften the unavoidable severities & sufferings of War according to the usage & Custom of the most civilized Nations. MS (NN: United States Congress Collection). In the hand of Elias Boudinot and endorsed by him: “Report to Congress on the Cartel for exchange of Prisoners with Sir H. Clinton, 31 March 1782.” 1 Elias Boudinot drafted this report as a member of a committee appointed on May 4 to take under consideration “the Report of the Commissioners for settling a Cartel [Henry Knox and Gouverneur Morris],” who had conducted negotiations with British commissioners at Elizabethtown, N.J., March 31-April 19, 1782. The com missioners’ report had been sent to Congress with a letter from General Washington of April 30 inquiring “how far any future Exchanges of prisoners of War shall be continued” and recommending that Congress approve the granting of pardons “to the Refugees in Service of the Enemy” on the ground that such a policy might be
