496 May 7, 1782 You will see in the public prints an atrocious Affair of Cap. Huddy who was hanged by Refugees. The Genl, has threatned Retal iation upon British Officers if the perpetrators are not delivered up. Congress have resolved to support him and I believe they will be executed and when we have once enter’d the Retaliatpry road, no doubt we shall proceed with them passitus equis; therefore let our Enemies beware of improper Conduct, and let our Friends take care how [not to] fall into their hands. The Demand by the General to Clinton is likely to occasion very great & serious differences between the British & the Refugees. I think Mr. Justice P. 2 has acted very incautiously—risquing his pretious Person after what had pass’d. He probably will not retain his fondness for a Featherbed or Mattress; it was not to be expected he should emerge above all the surcets [circuits] like Venus rising from the Sea and reclining on a Bed of Roses. In plain English he should have been damnably switched. I fear he will acquire experience at a dear rate. I delivered the letter you enclos’d for Mrs. Timothy. Several vague reports have been spread of the ships not being lost but carried into Jamaica and of Mrs. Marshall’s being seen at Antigua, but I believe they are all without foundation and we conclude they are certainly lost. I have [. . .] flatter’d myself by hopes of being able to set out for Southward upon the arrival of Mr. Z— (J R and Ramsay having taken their Seats) 3 but yesterday we received a Paper purporting &c. Our Accounts from the West Indies are still various & uncertain, but we have every reason to conclude Our Allies hold their Superi ority, & that in conjunction with a Spanish Armament they will shortly invest Jamaica, so that we may expect the chief Business of the Campaign would be in that Quarter. FC (ScHi: Middleton Papers). In the hand of Arthur Middleton. 1 This undated shorthand letter was written early in May, perhaps on the first post day after John Rutledge and David Ramsay had taken their seats in Congress. See JCC, 22:233. 2 That is, Judge Henry Pendleton of the South Carolina Court of Common Pleas who had recently been captured by the British. As Edward Rutledge explained to Middleton in a letter of April 14, 1782: “I am sorry to tell you poor Pendleton as he was going Circuit a few Days ago was taken Prisoner & is in the Provost.” SCHGM, 21 (January 1926): 12-13. See also Bio. Dir. of S.C. House, 3:547. 3 The references are to Ralph Izard, John Rutledge, and David Ramsay. The former took his seat in Congress on June 7; the two latter on May 2.
