498 May 7, 1782 laws and customs of Virginia shall be deemed and declared abso lutely void and of no effect in the same manner as if the said territory had still remained subject to and part of the common wealth of Virginia. We are not informed of the amount of the expenses mentioned in those conditions; nor can we pronounce absolutely how far the proposed guaranty, and a declaration that royal grants inconsistent &c are absolutely void would effect the claims of other States and the rights of the United States in Congress assembled; nor can we tell how far eastward the western boundary of these States may be established by a peace. This letter will be accompanied by a copy of the report of the Committee on the cessions &c. Copies of the Acts of cession &c will be transmitted as soon as they can be made out. The Minister of France hath lately through the Secretary for foreign affairs requested a public audience in order to deliver to the President a letter from his royal master to the United States in Congress assembled announcing to them the birth of the Dauphin. 3 The joy of Congress on this happy occasion will be manifested by a discharge of cannon, a display of fireworks, and by an elegant entertainment for the Minister of France. The audience, exhibitions, and entertainment will be on Monday next. The Secretary for foreign affairs will make the proper com munication to the respective States and we are sure that the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations will not be backward in demonstrations of joy on this auspicious event. Your Excellency will observe the motion of Genl. Conway &c. 4 The British wish to treat with the United States separately from France, and with individual States separately if they could; and would cajole us with ideas of pacification. We are confident that Congress will not recede an inch from the resolutions they solemnly enter’d into upon the proposals made by the last sett of Commis sioners; that no one State will attend to any separate propositions that may be made to them; and that our State would answer, if any such should be offer’d to it, as they did formerly to the propositions of Ld Lowe. Nor will, we trust, the exertions of the States be in the least degree relaxed by any resolutions of the British house of Commons not to carry on an offensive war against America; but on the contrary we hope that we shall have such a respectable army in the field, as, with the assistance we may receive from our generous ally, may enable us to operate not only offensively but effectually against our enemies. Finding themselves incapable of subdueing us by force, they are recurring to their old artifices. They are report ing through Europe that we are a weak and divided people in order to influence mediating and other powers against us; and to convince the world that this is the case, and to lull us asleep they are coming
