May 7, 1782 499 again with the olive branch in their mouth, but it will be not forgot ten that under the same peaceful] dove-like appearance an insid ious serpent hath lurked—have lurked strategems and death. We ask pardon for having extended our observations so far on this peice of intelligence. Even a hint of this sort to a State, so spirited, so sagacious, and so guarded as that of Rhode-Island would require an apology. Genl. Washington’s Commissioners for a cartel are returned with out effecting any thing. Sr H. Clinton’s Commissioners were not empower’d to settle a general cartel. Indeed, their powers were ostensible only; every thing was referred to him by them. He re fused to pay the ballance due for subsisting their soldiers in our possession; and would not advance a farthing for the support of them. He was willing to give seamen for soldiers, or a trifling sum of money for each soldier. Our commissioners were instructed by the Genl, to insist upon better accommodations for our sea-prisoners. Admiral Digby’s powers to their commissioners were much short of expectation. He was willing to exchange seamen for soldiers, and this was all he said that wanted regulation. 5 The report on the affair of Vermont lies untouched and will not be stirred until it shall appear that some advantage will result from agitating it. Yesterday Congress reed, letters from Mr. Carmichael of the 18th & 27 Feby. confirming the news of the reduction of Minorca. 6 The garrison capitulated in twenty days after the trenches were open’d. The fortifications are to be levelled, and the port obstructed so as not to admit large vessels, and the troops employed agst Mahon are to be employed against Gilbraltar, the seige of which will be pushed, as the taking of it is a favorite object of his Catholic Majesty. We have communicated every thing of any moment that we could bring to our recollection, and are with sentiments of great respect, Your Excellency’s most obedient servants, William Ellery Ezekiel Cornell RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Ellery, and signed Ellery and Cornell. 1 See Rhode Island Delegates to Greene, April 16, 1782. 2 See JCC, 22:240-41; and James Madison to Edmund Randolph, May 1, note 4. 3 See Charles Thomson to Robert R. Livingston, May 10, 1782. 4 The latest British peace proposals, including Henry Seymour Conway’s February 27 motion in the House of Commons, were reported in the Pennsylvania Packet of May 7, which the Rhode Island delegates apparently inclosed for Greene. 5 Because of the failure of recent prisoner negotiations to secure additional relief for “sea-prisoners,” Congress this day voted to ask France to send British seamen captured in the West Indies to New York to be exchanged for imprisoned American seamen. JCC, 22:243n.l, 245-46. 6 See James Madison to Arthur Lee, this date, note 3.
