502 May 10, 1782 tions in the name of Congress to the prest & Council of Pensylvania, the principals of the three executive departments under Congress & such other persons as he may think proper.” 2 This I hope will remove your difficulties & enable you to proceed in executing the business in such way as will do honor to your self as well as to Congress. I have the honr to be Sr, Yr obt. humble Servt, Cha Thomson FC (DNA: PCC, item 55). In the hand of Charles Thomson. 1 Livingston had informed Congress on May 2 that La Luzerne desired “a public audience” in order to deliver a letter from Louis XVI “announcing the birth of a Dauphin,” whereupon Congress assigned Monday May 13 for an audience. Liv ingston also submitted a description of the audience held in August 1778 for the first French minister to the United States, Conrad-Alexandre Gerard, with a few sug gested alterations to make the ceremony suitable to the present occasion, which was referred on May 3 to a committee consisting of Elias Boudinot, James Madison and John Rutledge. See JCC, 22:235; and PCC, item 79, 2:133-40. The committee’s report, which was adopted May 7, described in considerable detail a “ceremonial . . . proper to be adopted on this occasion,” which prescribed the roles of the principal officers of the three executive departments and other Continental officials. Livingston apparently balked at the part assigned to the secretary for foreign affairs, and accordingly directed the following note to President Hanson the following day. “Sir, I this moment received a Resolution of Congress, ordering an entertainment to be provided by Congress at the City tavern for the Minister of France and his Suite to be under my direction, and impowering me to invite thereto such General Officers and foreigners of distinction in town as the President shall approve. As the execution of this important trust (for which I find myself disqual ified) will materially interfere with the business of this Office, I must beg leave to decline the Honor that Congress intend me. I have directed the Tavern keeper to be informed that it will be necessary to provide a dinner on Monday, in order that no time may be lost by my having been appointed.” JCC, 22:246-48; and PCC, item 79, 2:175-78. The congressional response to this note is not known, but the following letter from Livingston to Secretary Thomson, dated May 9th, indicates that he had not been placated. “You who know the respect I have for Congress, will easily conceive the reluctance 1 feel, in persisting to decline the direction of their Entertainment, while it stands upon its present footing—were it a duty annexed to my Office, I should think myself oblidged to perform it—did the United States in Congress chuse to appoint me their Master of Ceremonies whom any occasion in which they appeared as a Sovereign, I should think they added greatly to the honor they have already conferred upon me— But Sir I feel that there is a respect which every Man owes to himself if he has been dignified by honorable Employments or if in Office to that Office and the Sovereign that appointed him, which forbids him to take a new Charge derogatory to the formdb “Congress call upon me to direct an Entertainment at which, I am not even a guest—to which none of the Principals in the great Departments, or the most respect able executive Officers are to be invited—From which the President and Council of the State—The field Officers in town tho’ on duty, a number of genteel Strangers (not being Foreigners) some of whom were ten days ago members of Congress are excluded, and the general Officers implicatively since they never visit without their Aid de Camps—it is true the odium I should incur by my agentry on this occasion would be removed if I could plead the order of Congress, but I should find it difficult
