514 May 14, 1782 Flags. What the Intentions of the New Ministry may be is only a Matter of Conjecture here: some are of Opinion that Sir Guy is instructed to make an Attempt upon the States individually, to draw them of[f] from the Alliance formed with France; I feel no Anxiety about such a Manoevre; because I am perswaded the States Individ ually would behave with becoming Dignity on such an Occasion. Perhaps the Silence of Congress on this very important Matter, may be very Good Policy; should the States, without the Intervention of Congress, act with a suitable Degree of Firmness, it would have a Tendency to destroy the absurd & groundless Insinuations of the former brittish Ministry, in the Courts of Europe, that a great Majority of the Americans are well disposed to their Sovereign; that the People are only governed by a few Incendiaries. Mr. Lowell I conclude from the Intelligence I have received is on his way, & that he will be with us this Week; Mr. Partridge deter mines to Leave us next Week. I shall make myself perfectly easy with my Situation; if the State should have a full Representation I shall return Home this Summer. If otherwise I shall not quit their Service if my Health continues as good as it is at present. 2 General Lincoln has lately removed his Lodgings, & is now in the House with me, where we are pretty well accommodated. He desires me to inform you that there is a Person in Philadelpa who flatters himself that he has good Reason to expect that you will remember as well as Mr. Partridge to whom you desired me to present your Compliments. You will be pleased to excuse this long Letter & accept of my sincerest Wishes for your Welfare. I am, Dear Sir, with Sentiments of the greatest Esteem, your most obedient, and most humble Servant, Samuel Osgood RC (NIC: Sage Bequest). 1 That is, the Independent Chronicle (Boston), published by Nathaniel Willis, Sr. 2 John Lowell took his seat in Congress on May 20, the day George Partridge was granted leave to return to Massachusetts. JCC, 22:278. Osgood remained in Phila delphia throughout 1782. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir Philada. May 14th. 1782 In our letter of the 17th Ulto. we informed your Excelly. that we had called upon Congress for a decision on the report of the Com mittee on the territorial cessions, a copy of which was inclosed in our letter of the 17th. of Novr last; 1 and that a day had been assigned for the consideration of that report. The extract from the Journals of
