May 14, 1782 515 Congress herewith transmitted, shews the progress of the business down to the 6th. of May, when it was postponed sine die. 2 Our revival of this subject at the time above stated proceeded from the manifest expediency of obtaining from Congress such a decision thereon, as would explain their ultimate views, and enable the Genl. Assembly at their present Session to take such measures as the case required. During a suspension of this decision of Congress, the misrepresentations & fallacies contained in the report supplied to interested persons, abundant calumny against Virginia; and the precautions which her Western interests might dictate, were ex posed to be animadverted upon as premature & improper. These considerations were urged upon Congress as equally obliging the State to demand and them to give a definitive answer either in the affirmative or negative to her cession. Congress were reminded too that this cession was proposed not from any interested motives on the part of Virginia, nor even originated with her, but was made at the instance of Congress themselves, who pressed it upon her as a sacrifice essential to the general Interest; that the least therefore that could be expected from Congress was a speedy attention & explicit answer to it. These considerations, weighty as they were in themselves, made little impression, nor were they other wise an swered, than by the evasive propositions & unseasonable adjourn ments stated in the extract from the Journals. The only solid objec tion of which the case admitted, and which on a former occasion prevailed, was a thinness of the House. 3 But on this occasion there were both at the time of assigning a day for the discussion of the report, & of the vote which finally postponed it, no less than eleven States present, a number which experience has shewn to be greater than can be calculated upon at any given future period. During the course of the business the number was indeed reduced to nine States by the voluntary departure of a member for Connecticut & of another for Delaware; and advantage was taken of that conjuncture, as will be seen in the extract above referred to, to introduce the proposition made by Mr. Clarke & Mr. Ellery on the first instant. 4 Having pursued this subject to the issue of a postponement sine die, and having found from the temper of a great part of Congress, as well as the repeated declarations of individual members on the floor, that no other issue was to be expected, we thought it incon sistent with the respect due to the State we represent, to other public business, and to our friends in Congress, to persist longer in urging it. We accordingly apprized Congress that such was our determina tion, and that we should forthwith transmit a State of the whole proceeding to our Constituents, with whom it would remain to take such Steps as it should suggest. What these Steps ought to be we presume not to point out. We are persuaded that they will be the result of mature & temperate deliberation, and that they will equally
