516 May 14, 1782 tend to the honor of the State & the security of its interests. We only entreat that whatever Duties they shall assign to us may be chalked out in full and precise instructions. Possessed of such instructions we shall not only speak and act with greater confidence & satisfac tion to ourselves, but with greater weight and effect with respect to others. Indeed the advantage of being able to speak the declared sense of our constituents is so great that we can not but intimate the expediency of our being furnished with it on all questions which involve their important interests. 5 Intelligence from the W. Indies renders it pretty certain that an action has lately taken place between the French and British fleets in that quarter. The result is not circumstantially known, but there is reason to believe that it was considerably in favor of the former wch. preserved its convoy and prosecuted its course to Hispaniola. At this place it is universally understood that a junction was to be made with the Spaniards, and that the combined armaments were to proceed from thence agst. Jamaica. The Gazettes which accompany this will inform your Excellency of the revolution which has taken place in the British Ministry, and of the arrival of General Carlton at N. York in quality of Com mander in cheif, and joint Comissr. with Admiral Digby for treating of peace with America. A letter was [received] yesterday by Congress from Genl. Washington inclosing one to him from Genl Carlton in which the latter announces his arrival, his commission, the pacific disposition of G. Britain towards this country, and his personal desire in case the war should be continued, of rendering it as little destructive as possible; and finally requests a passport for Mr. Mor gan his Secy, to convey a similar letter of compliment to Congress. Genl Washington’s letter is not yet answered, but we run no risk in assuring your Excelly. that he will be directed to refuse the passport to Philada. for Mr. Morgan. The late proceedings in the British Parliamt. with the avowed repugnance of the New Ministry, particularly of Ld. Shelburne the Minister for the American Department, to a recognition of our Independence and of our Alliance with France, forbid any hope that a peace on that ground is the object of the Commission just mentioned. On the contrary we have every reason to suspect that its object is to seduce us from the latter if not from both of those essential preliminaries to peace. The stile of Genl. Carlton’s letter to Genl Washington perfectly coincides with this Suspicion. It gives us great pleasure to be able to observe on this occasion, that the appar ent unanimity & firmness of Congress, afford every security to the honor & rights of the U. States wch. depends on their Councils. A public Audience was yesterday given to the Minister of France in which he announced in form the birth of a Dauphin. The impor tant light in which this event is regarded by the French Nation, and
