518 May 15, 1782 Arthur Middleton’s Notes for a Speech in Congress [May 15? 1782] 1 Against the Rules of war—if propos’d—Enemy should have notice of it. Political failure—young placed under the blessings of Capitula tion, this was the argument in the case of Cornwallis. Preamble not agreed to—Grounds of the proceedings should be first laid. Said it should be secret. I would not steal them—but deal in the open on fair footing. Against it also because it is a dear mode—each worth £60. We cannot expect retribution for their maintenance. Because it is dangerous, it is a sword with two Points—one of them against ourselves, not to be trusted in the Field or in Garrison—only good to keep up a show of [might?] at a distance from the Enemy. Grand argument against it is the Consequences to our fellow Citizens—our Constituents. It will be exposing them to be [forced?] on board the ships—this they have had [to do?] but not avowedly, in no Instance—not by authority. But they have desired to become Soldiers of the United States— this for the Bounty. Question. Is not their pay due from the British? which they will relinquish. Can we pay them punctually? and keep them easy—will they have the patience of natives or those bound to the Country by Connec tions? It does not appear to me probable. Document of the Gentleman from New York respecting want of power in Congress is sound and good. The mode contrived to do it away futile. With power to hire foreign Troops—this Democracy by rotation might be converted into perpetual Aristocracy. Argument of Political expediency not suffer to overset a funda mental rule of Conduct on which public security has so great dependance. If this measure is adopted I could wish it brought by the Com mander in Chief and that Congress should come to no avowal of it. Sign of weakness in that we cannot or will not fill up our Armies from our own people. MS (ScHi: Middleton Papers). In the hand of Arthur Middleton. 1 Middleton apparently drafted these shorthand notes this day during debate over Washington’s April 27 letter concerning the failure of the recruiting service and his recommendation that “measures ... be adopted, at this moment, for taking the German Prisoners of War into our service,” which had been referred on May 3 to a committee consisting of Elias Boudinot, Samuel J. Atlee, and John Rutledge. See
