526 May 21, 1782 his motion to have them referred to committee was supported by only four states and was lost. See JCC, 22:281-86; and the concluding paragraph of this letter. 3 As Scott was the state’s only delegate in attendance at this time, his motion was not even supported by the vote of New York. Ibid., p. 286. Abraham Clark to Caleb Camp gj r Philada. May 22d. 1782 The Navigation of the Delaware being not only interrupted but at present Stoped by the British Cruisers, great Numbers of the Traders it is said are turning their Attention towards New York, from which place they principally expect to procure goods. This therefore ought to take up the first attention of the Legislature of New Jersey, as through that State all the goods must come. On our Legislature at this Time much depends. Money is going from hence to New York to Amounts almost incredible, and if not prevented will soon Drain the Continent of all the hard Cash, we are with hasty strides ruining ourselves by this destructive Commerce, I hope therefore no time will be lost in giving it a deadly blow—trifling measures will not answer, and yet you may do so much as to Spoil all. I wish the measures may be to 1st. Repeal all former Laws so far as not to affect Causes now depending under them. , 2d. Make all goods, wares & Merchandize coming from the Brit ish Seizable—half to the State & half to the Seizor in all Cases whatsoever—the Condemnation as heretofore. 3d. Persons taken bringing out goods to forfeit to their value. 4th. All Goods Seized to be sold at public Vendue, the purchasers to be restrained from Selling them again or recurring them out of the state unless in Cloathing they wear. 5th. The 4th Article Agreed to will Naturally give place to a Clause to prohibit the sale of British goods in all Stores & Shops, as by the fourth Article it is to be presumed none will buy but for their own Consumption for while British goods are publickly sold in Shops it will be impossible to Stop the trade. As to Prize goods brought in from Sea, we get so few in New Jersey they can be disposed of as Seized goods are. 6th. Except Salt, Subject however to inspection. 7th. Lay fines or Annex punishments for sending any produce to the Enemy (flax seed & Cyder possibly might be excepted). The forfeitures for going into the Enemies Lines must be continued or encreased. Any thing going to the Enemy may be Seized if the fact can be Ascertained but in most cases this will be impossible, and no decision ought to go upon Conjectures, otherwise no man is safe in his property. The most difficult part of the Law will be with respect
