534 May 28, 1782 retarded for want of a sufficient representation,” see JCC, 22:301. Only seven states were represented on the most recently recorded roll call votes of May 25. JCC, 22:298-300. The states unrepresented at this time were New Hampshire, Connecti cut, New York, New Jersey, Delaware, and North Carolina. John Lowell to Samuel Adams Dear Sir [May 28? 1782] 1 The very great Embarrassment which attends all our Operations from the Neglect in the several States to furnish their Quota of Taxes, has induced Congress to send four of their Members (two to the southern & two to the eastern States) to excite them to an immediate Attention to the Subject, by communicating to them the critical State of our Affairs, & the absolute Necessity of an immedi ate Supply, you will be surprized to find how truly critical this Neglect has rendered our Situation, the Delicacy & Danger of repre senting which, by writing, has produced the Measure which Con gress has adopted. Mr. Root & Mr. Montgomery are the Gentlemen who visit our State, with both of whom I think you are personally acquainted, Govr. Rutledge & Mr. Clymer go to the Southward. 2 Dr Franklin inclosed the Minister of foreign Affairs a Letter from Mr. Adams, 3 wherein he informs him of a Conversation he has had with Digges who was introduced to him by Letters from David Hartley which assured Mr. A. that he came from the highest authority, their Conversation was about a Truce or a Peace in very general Terms, but at parting Digges told Mr. A. he had fully answered the Design of his Mission, which was to be assured whether there were in Europe Persons properly authorized to treat of & conclude a Truce or Peace. Mr. A. informed Digges by a Billet before he saw him that he should communicate whatever passed between them to Dr. Franklin & the Count De. Vergennes. Dr. F. informs the Minister of foreign Affairs, that Application has been made to him, the Particu lars of which he shall give by the next Opportunity, & that Overtures have been made to the Count De Vergennes to bring about a sepa rate Peace with France, on Terms very favourable & acceptable to that Court, if unallied; the Minister of France has informed several of us of the same Thing & that the Proposition was rejected with Disdain; but why Dr. Franklin omitted to give us by the last Vessell an Account of the Conversation he had held, or why Mr. A. was permitted to communicate to the Count Vergennes his Conversa tion with Digges, are yet to be accounted for. The french Minister here & his Masters are very evidently greatly alarmed at the Pros pect of Overtures from Great Britain to us—But if nothing more transpires than has yet, they may be very easy, for by what has been yet communicated (which is only the Commission of Sir Guy Carle-
