May 28, 1782 537 has declared} that {he has no hopes of resisting the torrent and therefore} that {he shall not attempt it. The Duke de Vauguion has acted a very friendly and honourable part in this business without however doing any ministerial act in it.}” What was said above of {Friesland} came from Mr. Berkley the Consul. 10 Mr. Adams says {nothing of} that {province altho’} his letter is {of later date}. If this sd. find you at Richmond, it will be unnecessary for you & Mr. R[andolph] both to be at the labor of decyphering, the above being copied from his letter. I made this provision for the contingency of your not having proceeded to Richmond. That you may not give me more credit for it than is due, I must confess that you owe it in part to the facility which my letter to him in Cypher afforded for repeat ing the intelligence to you. I believe I have omitted one paragraph on another subject which he will communicate to you. 11 Whitesides has the means remitted for taking up the note in which I am con cerned. I have urged Mr. R. to return & charged him to urge you. Let me hear from you on that subject, & let it be favorably. Farewell J- M.Jr. Yr. favr. of 21 was red. 1/2 after 9 OC last night. 12 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:287-89. 1 In dating this letter later in life, Madison first wrote “Deer 1781” and later, using different ink, crossed it out and wrote “May — 1782,” no doubt after he compared it with his letters of this date to Arthur Lee and to Edmund Randolph. See note 11 below. r 2 Words in braces in this text were written by Madison in cipher. 3 Copies of Benjamin Franklin’s March 4 letter to Robert Morris and the comte de Vergennes’ February 6 letter to Franklin were enclosed in the superintendent’s May 24 letter to Congress which was read that day. For these letters announcing the new French loan, a copy of Vergennes’ “Sketch of the Account of Congress With the Royal Treasury,” and Congress’ directive to Morris to render “an account of all money borrowed or granted in Europe, by or to the United States, antecedent to the 4 day of March last,” see JCC, 22:290-96; PCC, item 137, 1:471-85; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 4:340-46, 5:251-54. Although Congress had rejected at this time mo tions for appointing a special committee to investigate the disposition of funds made available to the United States in Europe, the issue was revived on July 25 by Arthur Lee, for which see Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates for that date. 4 At this point Madison used the wrong cipher number for the bracketed portion of the word “dangerous.” After some confusion, Jones finally rendered the word as “serious.” 5 That is, the marquis de Lafayette. 6 See John Hanson to Philip Thomas, May 14, note 2. 7 This “consolatory answer” has not been found. 8 For these instructions, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:271-72. 9 See the preceding entry, note 3. 10 For this March 7 letter of Thomas Barclay, U. S. consul in France, to Robert R. Livingston, see PCC, item 71, fols. 1-4. Madisons letter of this date to Edmund Randolph, which is now missing, was originally printed without any indication of ciphered passages in The Papers of James Madison, ed. Henry D. Gilpin, 3 vols. (Washington: Langtree & O’Sullivan, 1840),
