542 May 28, 1782 an emissary has been sent to Mr. Adams at the Hague from the British Ministry to sound him relative to peace and to know whether he had any powers from Congress to conclude a truce. A conference was held between the Emissary and him in the Presence of Mr. Adams Secry., 6 and terminated as soon as he received information that there were powers lodged in Europe for treating of a Peace which he Said no person in England could ascertain, untill then, altho, he confessd it had been announced in all the Papers of Eu rope. We have related these facts to you but as many of them are secret in their Nature we trust they will not be divulged, but in such proportion as they may be usefull in opening the Eyes of our Con stituents to the Chicane and Duplicity of our Enemy and the firm ness and good faith of our Ally—and, as they may stimulate all ranks to Energetic exertion to obtain the desired object, of an honorable peace in Conjunction with our Illustrious Ally, and Independence. Mr. Adams letter to Dr. Franklin of the 26th of March also informs him that ten or eleven of the Cities of Holland, have declared for our independence and that he expects that Province, will determine the next day to admit him to an Audience. He says the Picture of England drawn by the above mentiond Emissary from G Britain is for them a Gloomy one. We have at length obtaind and herewith send you a copy of the Pensylvania Act of Assembly you some time ago requested to have. 7 We are with the Greatest respect Yr. Excys. most obedt serts. J Madison Jr Theok. Bland Jr RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Bland and signed by Bland and Madison. 1 Words in braces in this text were written by Bland in cipher. For the governor’s letters to the chevalier de La Luzerne and Robert Morris, see Bland to St. George Tucker, May 20, 1782, note 2. 2 See Madison to Joseph Jones, this date, note 3. 3 Not found, but probably a letter of May 21. 4 See Committee of Congress to Harrison and John Dickinson’s Notes, May 31, 1782. 5 See John Lowell to Samuel Adams, this date, note 3. 6 That is, John Thaxter, Jr. 7 For the act of the Pennsylvania assembly concerning the Virginia-Pennsylvania dispute over the territory in the Monongahela and Youghiogheny river valleys be yond the western terminus of the Mason-Dixon line, see Madison, Papers (Hutchin son), 4:184—86, 215n.2, 287n.27. See also Virginia Delegates to Harrison, May 7, 1782, note 2.
