544 May 29, 1782 Congress & the State therefore act in Concert no Tobacco can be remitted to N.Y. and a further drain of Specie must ensue. When the matter was first opened in Congress the impression was unfa vorable to the right of the State, and pretty free strictures were likely to be made on its opposition to the Constitutional power of Con gress. It became necessary therefore to recur to the law & the testimony which produced an acquiescence in the contrary doctrine. Their sentiments however with regard to the policy & consistency of the Resolutions are very different. The last Resolution in particular Compared with the preliminary doctrines produces animadversions which I need not recite to you. 5 There are several reasons which make me regret much this variance between Congress & Virga, of which a material one is that a great Personage 6 will be touched by it since it originates in his Act, & since in a conference between a Committee, him, & the Superintt. He concurred in the expediency of granting the passports. Gillon is just arrived here with five sail of the Havannah fleet, I have not yet heard whether he brings news or not. Adieu RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:297-98. 1 Not identified. 2 For Congress’ rejection of Lt. Col. Edward Carrington’s application for command of the 4th Continental Regiment of Artillery, see ibid., pp. 165—68, 183. 3 For which, see Madison to Joseph Jones, May 28, note 11. 4 The resolutions of the Virginia assembly that were read in Congress on May 28 represented an attempt by the state to nullify article 9 of the capitulation agreement signed at Yorktown, wherein the New York merchants and traders who had accom panied Cornwallis to Virginia were permitted to sell their goods for specie or for Virginia tobacco which could then be shipped to New York under flags of truce. In March Robert Morris had negotiated a contract with the traders, represented by George Eddy, for the shipment of a specified amount of tobacco under congressional passport. It was this authority that the Virginia government specifically challenged on May 20 by refusing the British flag-of-truce ships, New York and Fame, access to Virginia ports on the grounds that article 9 violated the January 1782 congressional resolve recommending laws for the confiscation of British manufactures as well as Virginia laws forbidding trade with the enemy. For the background of this contro versy and Morris’ May 28 letter to Congress enclosing the Virginia resolves, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:244—51, 253—54, 263-67; Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 3:208-10,4:404—7, 554-56, 5:272-75; and Charles Thomson to Daniel Clark, May 3, 1782. For the report of the committee assigned to consider the resolves and the steps taken to convince the Virginia assembly to honor the Eddy agreement, see the following entry. 5 In its concluding resolution the Virginia assembly, despite its position on the Eddy contract, had ratified a second contract secured by Virginia agent David Ross for tobacco due for goods purchased, with Washington’s approval, for the army. See PCC, item 75, fols. 367-68; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 3:208—10. 6 That is, the commander-in-chief.
