May 31, 1782 545 Committee of Congress to Benjamin Harrison Sir, Philadelphia May 31st. 1782. Some Resolves of the House of Delegates of Virginia, relative to two Vessells which went to that State with Continental Passports, for carrying Tobacco, from thence, to New-York, having been laid be fore Congress, & they having directed Us to proceed to Virginia, to make some confidential Communications to your Excellency & the Legislature, We are also authorised to make such an Explanation of the Matter which those Resolves respect, as may be necessary. 1 We therefore think proper to inform your Excellency, that We shall set off, To Morrow for Richmond, on the Business of our Mission, in Hopes that all further Steps, respecting these Vessells may be sus pended, & that the Legislature of that State will not adjourn, untill our Arrival which shall be as soon as Circumstances will admit. We have the Honour to be with great Respect, Sir, Yr. most obed. Servts. J. Rutledge Geo Clymer RC (CSmH: HM 39006). Written by John Rutledge and signed by Rutledge and George Clymer. 1 The Virginia resolves “relative to two Vessels which went to that State with Continental Passports for carrying Tobacco” had been referred on May 28 to a committee consisting of John Rutledge, William Ellery, and John Lowell. The com mittee’s report, written by Rutledge and recommending that “the members who are to repair to Virginia” respond in person to Virginia’s concerns over the export of tobacco from the state under Continental passport, was adopted the following day. See JCC, 22:309—10; PCC, item 20, 2:267—70, item 186, fol. 31; the preceding entry, note 4; and the following entry. For Rutledge’s success in convincing the Virginia Assembly of the necessity of permitting the export of this tobacco to fulfill Continental commitments, see Ed mund Randolph’s report on the episode to James Madison in Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:340-41. John Dickinson’s Notes of a Conference with John Rutledge and George Clymer May 31st 1782 1 Completing supplies of Men & Money. Distinction of Taxes. See Pennsa. Law—a[fore]said Law imposing the whole of our Quota. 2 1st. Only 6100 3 Dollars of the 8 millions paid in—& all that sum by one State: New Jersey 2d. All the Money borrd. in Europe amounting in the whole from the Commencement of the War to 29 millions of Livres, including the Dutch Loan of 10 millions, & the French Loan this Year of 6
