548 May, 1782 Arthur Middleton to Charles Cotesworth Pinckney CCP. [May ? 1782] 1 Majr. B. 2 writes & encloses the papers—I send however yr. Jour nals wh[ich] may serve for waste paper, as I fear you are in Parts where neither Mess[engers?] nor Soldiers abound. You have heard doubtless & felt the Promotion of O.W. Tho’ convinced he is a worthy man, I oppos’d it as flow[in]g from a principle distructive of the Peace of, & disgustfull, to the Army. But we were overpower’d. I have too good an op[inio]n of yr. Sense & patriotism to Suppose that anything done by a particular body, who may reason & mean well from wrong grounds, can drive you from the Service. Some of us are very inclinable to generalize all the Colonels, & have several times attempted it, hitherto ineffectually, but we shall still prosecute the Intention. 3 FC (ScHi: Middleton Papers). In the hand of Arthur Middleton. 1 From Middleton’s reference in his second paragraph to the promotion of “O.W.” (Otho Holland Williams), which Congress authorized on May 9, it seems clear that this letter was written in late May or early June 1782. See JCC, 22:146, 248—53. 2 Pierce Butler. 3 At some time shortly after Ralph Izard returned to Philadelphia early in June, Middleton also jotted the following shorthand draft of another letter to Pinckney. “Your letter by Mr Izard gives me much pleasure and it would have been greater had it not told me you had been indisposed. Its value was much enhanced because it was in some way unexpected as you must have been looking for me sometime. Occurences here have not permitted me to perform my promise of seeing you so soon as I intended, and unless the Enemy has evacuated (which I confess I do not expect) it may be as well that I did not proceed before Mr. Izard’s arrival, for I should not venture to come near you whilst there would be a problem of drawing the Enemy towards you by my presence.” Middleton Papers, ScHi. South Carolina Delegates to Unknown Sir [May ? 1782] 1 The Delegates on Considering yr application met with a Diffi culty, which appears to them insurmountable. They are of Opinion that Mr. Ross’s acceptance of a Particular Order, whilst he refuses those drawn in favour of others, would have a partial & unjust Operation—& under such Circumstances were they to sign an Or der in yr. favour, they would thereby give Countenance to such partiality & Injustice, & consequently Merit the Censure of those Gentlemen who have an equal Claim, & to whom Mr. Ross has positively refused payment of Orders drawn in their favour by the
