June 2, 1782 549 Delegates. Although possess’d of the best Dispositions to afford you every possible Assistance, They find themselves under the disagree able inability of gratifying your wishes, as well as their own, at present, but will still endeavour to accomplish them. FC (ScHi: Middleton Papers). In the hand of Arthur Middleton. 1 No evidence has been discovered to indicate when and to whom this letter was written, but Middleton and the other South Carolina delegates attending Congress on May 20, 1782 (David Ramsay and John Rutledge) are known to have executed and signed on that date five orders drawn on state agent John Ross to pay various sums on state account to the following persons: Capt. Thomas Gadsden $200 (Lebold Signers Collection, ICHi); Mrs. Christopher Gadsden $200 (Paul C. Richards Autograph Cata log, No. 227); Mr. James Heyward $200 (Statesmen Collection, NjHi); Mr. Andrew Thomson $200 (Henry A. Willard Collection, DLC); and Lt. Moore $100 (Sanderson Autograph Collection, CtY). William Few to James Jackson Dear Sir Philadelphia June 2d 1782 In order to curtail this Epistle I enclose you the latest news papers which contains all the domestic inteligence. Britain has changed her Ministry, and they it seems are disposed to change the system of the War in America, but we see no reason to believe that it is their intention to yield us our Independance or cease to exercise every means in their power to injure and distress us. Finding they cannot by force accomplish their diabolical designs they are now about trying the effect of artifice & Intrigue. An Emmissary has been sent by the British Minister to Mr Adams at the Hague requesting to know if any person from America was vested the power of negociat- ing a seperate peace. About the same time a secret Agent was sent to the Court of Versailles, proposing A seperate peace with France and offering to give them up all their conquests in the West Indes and some advantages in the East Indes, the French Minister answered that any propositions for peace that did not contain the Indepen dance of America was inadmissable. Thus we see their nefarious schemes subverted and A Contrary effect flow from it, for it will tend more warmly to attack and unite France & America and increase that growing confidence between the two Nations. Please to remember me to all enquiring Georgians and believe me to be with much esteem Your assured Friend. W Few RC (PHi: Gratz Collection).
