550 June 2, 1782 John Hanson to Philip Thomas Dear Doct. Philadelphia June 2d. 1782 For intelligence I refer you to the inclosed papers. The Accounts they Contain of the battle between the two fleets in the West Indies, are upon the whole rather unfavourable; however we have Still Some room to doubt of the truth of it. No official Account has been yet received at N York and they are there as uneasy it is said respect ing the matter as we are; had the Issue been so favourable to the British as has been represented, it is reasonable to suppose that a Communication of a matter of such vast importance, to their Com mander in Chief, would not have been so long delayed. This with some other Circumstances, incline many to believe we Shall Shortly receive a quite different Account. For my part I am willing to hope for the best, but am fearful the french have received So much Damage in the Action, as will prevent the intended Attack on Ja maica for some time. You will see by the papers that the States General have Acknowledge our Independence, Should this be the Case the advantages Arising from it will more than ballance Any disadvantages that may result from Count de Grasse’s Defeat, Should that have happened. Have not further to add at present, only to acquaint you little Cate and my self are now perfectly recov ered, and your mother is much better than She has been Since She Came to Philadelphia, She is getting fat fast, we ride every day and intend to Continue doing so whenever the weather permits. Has Mr. P. paid for the Land. You will Send me all the money you Can—for a Debt Contracted on Acc’t of A when he was in Town I must pay An interest of 20 per ct. from the 1st Instant. We join in Love to you and the Children. Hope they were well when you wrote last tho’ you did not mention them. My Compliments to Mr & Mrs Price and all friends. Farewell, J H [P.S.] I wrote you by the last post Acknowledgeing the rect of your letter by Colo Nicholls with the Cash. RC (MdHi: Hanson Letters). John Hanson to John Hall My Dear sir Philadelphia June 4th 1782 I inclose you the two last papers—the Accounts given of the battle in west Indias are upon the whole rather unfavourable yet there are some Circumstances that render their Authenticity some what Doubtful. No official Account is yet come to hand at New York and
