June 4, 1782 551 it is reasonable to suppose if their Account be true that a Communi cation of a matter of Such Importance, to their Commander in Chief here would not have been so long delayed. There are other favourable Circumstances and I hope for the best, but am afraid the french have received so much damage in the Action, as will prevent the intended Attack on Jamaica at least for a time. An embarkation of Troops at New York is talked of, and a number of Transports it is said are going from thence to take of the Garrison at Charles Town. We hear nothing from Sir Guy. I very Sincerely wish you may Adopt the five per Ct Duty in the manner recommended by Congress, because I think an impost on all imported goods is a mode of Taxation the easiest that can be proposed. The Merchants in the first Instance pay, the people insensibly refund, every man pays in proportion to what he Chuses to Consume. The Extravagant man pays for his folly and the foreigners And strangers Among us are made to Contribute. I sincerely wish you health and happiness, being my Dear sir, your friend & most humble Servt. John Hanson RC (MdHi: Gilmor Collection). John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee My Dear sir Philadelphia June 4h 1782 I have not been honored with a line from you for a long time. Your Excellency was so Kind as to advise me to draw in red money the ballance that might be due me from the state for former Al lowances in Consequence of which I requested you would draw four hundred pounds on Account, which your Excellency was so obliging as to write me you would do and Keep the money for me till I Called for it. Should be glad to Know if you have received it. It is said an embarkation of Troops is taking place at New York, and a number of Transports are ready to Sail for Charles Town to take off the Garrison there. Some suppose these Troops are des tined for Hallifax and Quebek, while others think it more probable that they are intended for the West Indies. I fear the French fleet have been so much damaged in the late Action that they will not be in a Condition Shortly to make the Attack, in Conjunction with the Spaniards, as was intended, and I fear too that if the Issue of the Action Should turn out as has been represented we Shall be de prived of their asstance here as we had reason to expect towards the Hurrican months, but many people Still descredit the Accounts we have in the papers, no official Account of that Engagement having yet been received at New York, a Communication of which was it
