June 4, 1782 557 I have a letter of the 15 of March from Mazzei 5 in which he complains much of being neglected, dilates on the prospect & ef fects of a Turkish war & refers me to some of his patriotic publica tions transmitted to the Govr. Mr. Webb will set off tomorrow or next day. 6 By him I will try to send the Journals. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In the hand of James Madison, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:314—15. 1 This undated sheet of paper, which bears no salutation or address, is probably part of a second letter to Randolph written this day, for which see notes 2 and 6 below. Although the editors of the Madison Papers printed it as a postscript to the preceding entry, it is written on larger paper and bears different fold marks. 2 Although Madison’s letter to Joseph Jones has not been found, Jones acknowl edged “Your favor of the 4th instant and the packet of Newspapers by Mr. Webb” in his June 25 reply, for which see ibid., pp. 365-66. 3 Former delegate Cyrus Griffin, now judge of the Continental court of appeals, who apparently reported that Randolph might soon return to Congress. 4 For the “retransportation of the [Charleston] exiles,” see South Carolina Delegates to John Mathews, May 6, 1782, note 5; and the following entry. 5 For Philip Mazzei’s letter, which was actually dated March 13, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:93-99. 6 See Madison to Randolph, June 6. John Morin Scott to George Washington Sir Philadelphia June 4th. 1782 The immediate departure of the Post leaves Me barely the Oppor tunity of a few Moments to trouble your Excellency on a Subject of a delicate Nature. Your Letter to the Secretary at War of the 28th last contains a passage, which he at your Request has laid before Con gress, “that such Measures may be taken thereon as they shall think proper to direct.” The passage to which I allude, is that which respects those Inhabitants of the State of South Carolina who in defiance of good Faith, & breach of the Capitulation of Charle’s town, have been exiled from their Habitations by the Enemy. This passage together with a Copy of Sir Guy Carlton’s Letter in answer to yours of the 21st last on that subject have been referred to a Com mittee, of which I have the Honor to be the Chairman, to report thereon. 1 The committee are ignorant on what Grounds You placed your Application to the British Commander in Chief; and are the more anxious for information from your Excellency from a due attention to certain strokes in the passage alluded to, expressive of your Feelings on this delicate Subject. They will therefore be much obliged by a Copy of your application to the British Commander in Chief in Behalf of the injured Capitulants, should such a Communi cation render itself proper in your Judgment, that they may be
