568 June 10, 1782 2 Boudinot’s draft of the enclosed “Introduction,” which is also in the Boudinot Papers, DLC, reads as follows: “The Delegates representing the State of New Jersey in Congress have been honored with official Instructions from their State to present to you Sir, the congratulatory address of their Legislature on the auspicious Birth of a Dauphin of France. It is with very particular Satisfaction that they execute so honor able a commission, at this important & critical Period, especially as they most cor dially unite with their fellow Citizens in every Testimony of respect, on so interesting and happy an Event.” Boudinot’s copies of La Luzerne’s responses to the New Jersey delegates and to the legislature of New Jersey are also in the same collection of his papers. Arthur Middleton to Aedanus Burke [June 10? 1782] 1 Hints for a Letter to South Carolina AEB. Letter has given me particular pleasure from its fullness ana sincerity. Your sentiments are generous and bespeak the united position of the Patriot and the Politician. It is not by contracted and narrow motives that a public Official should act, but on large and disinterested conduct only can a free Government be established and [largely?] supported. A Legislature should proceed with cau tion and coolness not with the heat of a distempered mob. Persecu tion upon whatever Basis founded may give Life to the opposing Party. The Danger of fixing a Precedent for future Cruelties may affect the posterity of those who are uppermost. I much fear the indiscriminate ruin of the unfortunate with the wicked. The frailties of human nature should be taken into consideration by men to whom submission became necessary from Circumstances. The stigma indelibly affixd by the Vote of Sequestration will be more cruelly felt than the loss of property. Some who have pass’d through Life with the inestimable position of usefull and worthy Citizens must feel the pointed stroke of public indignity whose effects must remain on their Progeny who have conducted themselves with Punctuality and firmness—at the risque of everything they hold dear and valuable. I know the difficulty of stemming the Torrent of public Vengeance which seldom adopts Punishments to Crimes with proper Proportion. This sense of the difficulty makes me easy that I was not with you. FC (ScHi: Middleton Papers). In the hand of Arthur Middleton. i This letter, which was drafted largely in shorthand, appears to be a reply to a May 14 letter from Burke describing vengeful legislation recently enacted by the South Carolina legislature against alleged loyalists, for which see SCHGM 26 (October 1925): 197-202. Middleton, who had endorsed Burke’s letter “Reed. June 10th, ’82, may have begun to jot these “Hints” for a response almost immediately. For an earlier expression of similar sentiments, see Middleton to Burke, April 7, 1782.
