June 10, 1782 569 Samuel Wharton to Simon Kollock Sir 1 Philadelphia June 10th 1782 Permit Me, through you, to express my very grateful acknowledg ments to the Honorable the House of Representatives, for the high Mark of Confidence which They, in Concurrance with the Honor able the Council of the State of Delaware, have been pleased to place in Me, by appointing Me one of their Delegates in Congress. I am very sensible, Sir, of this distinguished Honor, and it shall be, I assure you, my Study and pride, by every Means in my Power, to show myself worthy of the Appointment. I have requested the Favor of his Excellency the President, to take Charge of the printed Jour nals of Congress, from the first of January 1781 to the first of April 1782, and in a Short Time, I will forward to you, an Abstract of the essential business, which has since then come before that body. 2 That part of the Instructions to the Delegates, Which directed Them “to use all Means in their power to obtain immediately an Alteration in the Ordinance concerning Captures” engaged their earliest Attention, and you will find, if you will be pleased to look into the Journals now transmitted, page 295, An Ordinance is made for further amending the “Ordinance ascertaining what Captures on Water shall be lawful” And that therein is a Clause obviating the Grievance suggested in the Instructions to the Delegates. This I hope will meet with the Approbation of the Honorable the Assembly. The consideration of the preliminary article respecting the Recog nition of the Territory, called Vermont, and all Transactions relative to that Business are postponed to the last Tuesday in this Month. The Report of the grand Committee, consisting of a Delegate from each State, was made the first of March last, and in the Journals now sent, you will observe Sir, what passed in Congress upon that Sub ject. The first of April, The Agents for the People of Vermont laid before Congress A Letter dated the preceding Day, informing, That in Consequence of it’s Declaration of the 20th of August last, The Legislature of Vermont had passed several Resolutions, expressive of their Compliance with the preliminary Article required by Con gress, together with a Duplicate of a Commission to Them, impow- ring the said Deputys, in behalf of the State of Vermont, to Sub scribe the articles of Confederation. This Letter and these Resolutions were referred to a Committee, Who made a Report favourable to the acknowledgment of the Independance of Ver mont. A long Debate arose after reading the Report, and it issued in postponing the further Consideration of it, until, as has been ob served, the last Tuesday in this Month. The States of New York, Virginia, South Carolina, and Georgia were averse from the Recog-
