June 10, 1782 571 go to their several States, It was judged adviseable to defer the further Consideration of it, until the States were more fully repre sented, and Therefore it was postponed sine Die. The Business is to be revived, as soon as there are a sufficient Number of States repre sented in Congress, favourable to it; And if the affair of Vermont, and the Cession of New York were settled, and accepted, We should be joined by those two States. In short We might then safely reckon upon the following States voting with Us. Vidzt. Massachussets, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Vermont, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, (Delaware) & Maryland. It is of much Impor tance for Congress to accept the Cession of New York, because it would vest in the united States, all the Lands which the State of Virginia, without a Shadow of Right, now makes pretensions to. To enable the Honorable House of Representatives to form a proper Opinion, upon the Cession offered by the State of New York to the United States, I will take the Liberty of Briefly reciting the History, and Extent of it. The five Nations of Indians, are the unquestionable Propriators of the Country, as far South as Carolina; To the North ward, as far as New England, and as far West as the River Missisipi. A vast country (says Doctor Colden) 3 Which extends Twelve hun dred Miles in Length from North to South, and about Six hundred Miles in Breadth. All this Country, in the year 1684 was put Under the protection of the Duke of York. Lord Howard of Effingham, Governor of Virginia, that year by a formal Instrument of Writing recognized and acknowledged the Governor of New York, under the Duke of York, To be the Governor of the five Nations. In 1701 These Nations by Deed of Conveyance placed all their hunting Lands On Ohio &c under the protection of the King of England for their Use, and the said King annexed this Trust, by two royal In structions to the Government of New York, That it might take due Care of these Indians, and their Country. Those Instructions were produced and read in Congress. In 1722, a Conference was held at New York, between the Governor of that Province, and his Council, The Governor of Virginia and two Commissioners, and the Gover nor, and two Commissioners from Pennsylvania. The Governor and Commissioners of Virginia then, as appears, by the Minutes of the Council of New York, in the most ample Manner, recognized and acknowledged, That the Goverment of New York, had vested in Them the absolute Right of Jurisdiction over, and pre-emption of the Lands and Country of the five (now Six) Nations of Indians; And an act of Assembly of Virginia made in 1722, previous to the Gover nor and Commissioners of that colony, going to the above Confer ence at New York, authorised Them to make the said Recognition and Acknowledgement. Virginia sensible of her Want of right to the Lands, Westward of the Allegany Mountain, produces no Kind of Prooff to support it, But contents Herself with Threats, and vehe-
