June 10, 1782 572 ment Declarations, Tho’ She knows a royal Proclamation and re peated Instructions are ready to be produced against Her, forbid den her in the most explicit Terms to extend her Limits beyond the Mountain. His Excellency will inform the House, what has been done, and is proposed to be done in England, relative to these States, and that the new Ministry of that Kingdom, are mediating Measures, as offensive to the Honor and Happiness of the United States, as their predecessors have. done. His Excellency will also explain to the House, the motives of Congress, for sending a Depu tation of two of their Members to each of the States, Southward of, & inclusive of Pennsylvania to North Carolina and two other of their Members to the States, from New Jersey to New Hampshire inclu sive. The Delicasy of their Mission, forbids Me from descending into particulars. Two Delegates of the State of New Jersey last week mentioned to Me, That They should soon move Congress, in Re spect to the Islands in the Bay and River of Delaware. 4 Whenever this Business is brought on, you be assured Sir, That the Delegates will give the utmost Attention to it, and display the Right of the Delaware State. In some of the publick Papers of this City, A Writer has thought proper to mention my Name in opprobious Terms. 5 I have not taken the least Notice of his publications, apprehending it altogether unbecoming One of your Delegates to dispute with anon ymous Scriblers. I consider myself wholy accountable to the State, Who has done Me the Honor of appointing Me, One of their Dele gates in Congress, and it is for their Satisfaction, I have requested the Favor of his Excellency the President, to take Charge of two Certificates (exclusive of One from his Excellency Dr. Franklin) sent Me by two Gentlemen, who were immediately privy to my Conduct in England, and to These allow Me to add Sir, That I remained there, until the year 1778, at the Instance and express Desire of Doctor Franklin (with an offer from Him, of a handsome allowance from the United States) to furnish Him with regular accounts of the proceedings, and Designs of the British Court. 6 This I did, intirely to his Satisfaction, as He has certified, and the Court of France was so sensible of my Industry, and Fidelity in this Business (as I wrote constantly, through their Courier Once a Week, whilst their Ambas sador staid in London, and by the post also, as often, Through the Mails to Calais & Ostend) That when I departed from France, Count de Vergennes, Secretary of State, recommended [me] in warm Terms to the Chevalier de Luzerne, Minister plenipotentiary of France to the United States. I am not ignorant of the Person, who composed the publications in Question, nor of the Original Instiga tor, behind the Curtain. If I had not exercised my Pen upon the pretensions of Virginia to the vacant Lands, I should have had no unfounded and unjust surmises, insinuated against Me. The secret author of these venemous Calumnys well knows The base Falsity of
