June 11, 1782 573 his own suggestions. He himself had the fullest Evidence to the Contrary; But an Attempt was to be made, from a hope, That possibly the Slander might injure Me, in the Opinion of the Honor able House. I would have paid my personal Respects to Them, But the State would have been unrepresented in my Absence. I shall detain You no longer, Sir, But request leave to Solicit the Honor of your representing, in my Behalf, to the Honorable the House of Assembly, That so long as They shall be pleased to concur in nomi nating Me, one of the Delegates in Congress, for the Delaware State, My Time and zealous Exertions shall be most faithfully devoted to it’s Service. Actions will be the best Expositors of my Declarations, and to Them, I very chearfully submit. With every Sentiment of Duty and Respect to the Honorable House, I take the Liberty of subscribing myself, Sir, your most Obedient and most humble Servant. Sami. Wharton RC (De-Ar: Legislative Papers). 1 Simon Kollock was the speaker of the Delaware assembly, where he had served since 1778. Claudia L. Bushman et al., Proceedings of the Assembly of the Lower Counties on Delaware, 1770—76, of the Constitutional Convention of 1776, and of the House of Assembly of the Delaware State, 1776—1781 (Newark: University of Delaware Press, 1986), p. 580. 2 Wharton explained his transmission of these journals in the following brief letter to the president of the Delaware council, Thomas Collins, the following day. “I did myself the Honor of addressing you yesterday, [not found], and inclosing the Journals of Congress to the first of April. I now forward a Continuation of Them to the 21 st of May.” Legislative Papers, De—Ar. 3 Cadwallader Colden, The History of the Five Indian Nations Depending on the Province of New-York in America (New York: William Bradford, 1727). 4 See Abraham Clark to John Mehelm, October 23, 1781. 5 Wharton’s defense of the claims of the Indiana Company, set forth in his pamph let Plain Facts, had recently been vigorously attacked by “Caractacus” in the April 24 and May 8 and 22 issues of the Freeman's Journal. 6 For the early war-time relationship of Wharton and Benjamin Franklin, see Franklin, Papers (Willcox), 23:61-66, 150-51, 157, 202-5. Theodorick Bland to St. George Tucker Dr. Tucker Philada. June 11th 1782 By my literary Register I stand indebted to you a letter—not on the general account—for I find one unanswerd—on perusing of it I find the cause of its being so. It containd many important observa tions, on most of which I wishd to descant freely with you—but the prolixity of the Public letter, and a multiplicity of other Business prevented me. Your Idea of the policy of the British ministry exactly corresponds with ours here, indeed their deceptions are so glaring that they cannot be mistaken by a people emerged, but one degree from Barbarism, accordingly, they seem to have affected several
