574 June 11, 1782 Publick bodies—and produced Sentiments as Similar and as uni form, tho at a Considerable distance and without previous concert, as were excited in the time of the Stamp act &c. &c. &c. You will see this exemplified in the Resolutions of Jersey, Maryland, Virginia &c. &c. Those from our State have met with Universal approbation, as being clear, sensible and decided, and I have reason to think will have a very Considerable Influence. It is near three Weeks Since I had the Honor to move that Congress shd. come to similar resolu tions and publish a declaration to the World of their determination to hearken to no terms of accommodation, but what were strictly consistent with the terms of our alliance, nor ratify any treaty of which independence was not the Basis; 1 such a step will in my opinion give the Mediators a good ground to work upon—and do away all the false and insidious Arguments of the Court of great Britain, used to them, viz that their revolted Colonies are disposed to treat Seperately, and that they have a right to avail themselves of that disposition without the intervention of any power on earth and it will at the same time support the opposite Arguments of our ally with the Mediators—and shew the futility of an attempt in great Britain to undertake a seperate treaty with us in any form. I am happy to be informed by some of my Correspondents that your fears with respect to the fate of the Tax law and some other Business in the assembly will probably soon be at an end. We are led to believe that, the assembly are going on swimmingly on some capital points of finance, or that they do not intend to undo the good they have done. I think their Idea of dividing the tax into two installments, a very good one, it is the middle between two extremes, & will, (at the same time that it affords a test of their being specie,) put what there is into a more rapid circulation, and of course multiply its Quantity so that the specie first paid in will circulate to pay the 2d installment &c. This will not leave a vacuum which shd. be carefully avoided by every wise Government. I know not Certainly who you mean by our F——d the Br but Guess it must be L n—his gooses Quil does not appear to me capable of soaring to Eagle Heights—and all the Elevation the Farmer can ever expect, is that which Common sense has given him by weighing him in his own scales. I have performd my promise in introducing common sense in Virginia to his name sake in Philadelphia. 2 You tell me you have heard from Mrs. Bland by letter. I am extremely sorry to find by her letters that you nor any of my Friends, have had any other communication with her since my departure. Tell Fanny, I take it rather unkind that she has neither wrote to her Brother nor visited the part of him left in Virginia. I cannot account for it on any of the principles of Broth erly love—or Christian Charity. I have wrote once or twice to the Old
