June 11, 1782 575 Gentleman but have Received no answer. I am extremely Sorry to hear that he has been again afflicted with a repetition of that Excru ciating disorder. My affectionate love to Fanny and the Children and be assured that I am, yr. Sincere Friend, Theok. Bland [P.S.] I enclose you a paper containg. the returns of Killd & Wounded of Rodneys fleet &c. Let Mr. Banister have the Perusal. RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 Although Bland’s motion was probably made in connection with the debates on La Luzerne’s report to the secretary for foreign affairs concerning recent British attempts to drive a wedge between America and her allies by suggesting terms for a separate peace, it has not been found. See JCC, 22:302-5, 311-13. 2 Through the spring of 1782 essays appeared in the Virginia Gazette, or the Ameri can Advertiser under the pseudonyms “Brutus” (from the Maryland Gazette) and “Com mon Sense” (from the Pennsylvania Gazette) as well as a series by “A Farmer” and “A Land-Holder” opposing and defending Continental taxation in Virginia. In a letter of May 2 Tucker had informed Bland that “an acquaintance of ours under the signature of the ‘Farmer’ has caught the popular ear most astonishingly,” but identi fied him only as a member of the Virginia assembly. See The Bland Papers, ed. Charles Campbell, 2 vols. (Petersburg, Va.: Edmund & Julian C. Ruffin, 1840-43), 2:79. John Hanson to John Hall My Dear sir Philadelphia June 11th 1782 I thank you for your favour of the 7th Instant. I shall rejoice to hear of the passage of a law establishing the 5 Per Ct Duty agreeable to the request of Congress 1 and if it is for a limited time I hope it will be for so long a time as to Effect every purpose. That the french have lost Six Ships in the late engagement is a fact I fear too well Confirmed, but I Console myself in the hope that the British have Suffered equal damage. The Conduct of the french redounds much to their Credit and honor. They have with an infe rior force protected the whole of their large Convoy, and made a junction with the Spanish fleet—which was their main object, and which it was the business of the British to have prevented, so that it may with no great impropriety be said that they have obtained a Victory. The Combined fleets are still Superior to the British, and it is probable the Expedition Against Jamaica will go on, God grant it Success. Should the reduction of that important place, be Accom plished, that with their other losses will perhaps incline the English to think Seriously of peace. I believe it is pretty Certain that an embarkation of Troops has lately taken place at New York, but their Numbers and destination unknown. The Continental Treasury is very low indeed, nothing paid in by Any of the States. What will be
