576 June 11, 1782 the Consequence. Should our Bank fail? And what Can Support it if the Taxes are withheld? With the most Sincere Wishes for your health and happiness, I am, My Dear sir, Your most hble servt, JH. RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). i The Maryland impost act was adopted on July 12 and received by Congress on July 15, for which see Hanson to the States, July 20, 1782, note 2. James Madison to Edmund Randolph Dear Sir Philada. 11 June 1782 I have your favor of the 1st instant. 1 I hope you received mine altho you do not acknowledge them. My punctuality has not been intermitted more than once or twice since your departure, and in no instance for a considerable time past. I have written so fully concerning the flags that I have nothing to add on that subject, but that I wish the Senate may by their perse- verence in this occasion exemplify the Utility of a check to the precipitate acts of a single Legislature. Having raised my curiosity by your hints as to certain maneuvres, you will not forget your responsibility to gratify it. The pleasure I feel at your being included in the Commission for vindicating the claims of Virga, is considerably impaired by my fears that it may retard your return hither. 2 Great as my partiality is to Mr. Jefferson, the mode in which he seems determined to revenge the wrong received from his Country, does not appear to me to be dictated either by philosophy or patrio tism. It argues indeed a keen sensibility and a strong consciousness of rectitude. But this sensibility ought to be as great towards the relentings as the misdoings of the Legislature, not to mention the injustice of visiting the faults of this body, on their innocent constituents. 3 The fleet said to be preparing to sail from N. York has, I believe certainly left that place with a body of troops on board. The number of men as well as the destination of the fleet is very differently represented. The prevailing conjecture as to the latter is that it will go to Charlestown, and either reinforce the Garrison there, or carry off the Garrison with the troops already on board, to the West Indies. We have not yet obtained any official intelligence from the French fleet. Concurrent reports make it probable that it has made a junc tion with the Spanish fleet which awaited it at Hispaniola. Should this be the case, the loss suffered in the action of the 12 of April,
