June 11, 1782 577 ought not one would suppose to frustrate the expedition against Jamaica. No despatches from Europe have come to hand within the week past, nor do any of the proceedings of Congress furnish matter for a paragraph. Sir G. Carlton still remains silent. The Resolutions which the Legislatures of the States are passing may perhaps induce him to spare British pride the mortification of supplicating in vain the forgiveness of Rebels. Mr. {Izard}, 4 warm & notorious as his predilection for {the Lees} is, acknowledges and laments the opposition made {by them} to measures adapted to the {public weal}. The letter on the first page of the Gazette of this morning was written by Mr. {Marbois}. In an evening of promiscuous conversa tion I suggested to him my opinion that the insidiousness of the British Court, and the good faith of our Ally, displayed in the late abortive attempt of the former to seduce the latter, might with advantage be made known in some form or other to the public at large. He said he would think of the matter, & next day {sent me} the letter in question, with a {request that I would revise and translate it for the press}, the latter of which was done. I mention this that you may duly appreciate the facts & sentiments contained in this publication. 5 If Mr. Jones sd. be at Richmond you will of course let him have a perusal of the inclosed papers &c. Adieu JM. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:333—34. 1 See ibid., pp. 305-6. 2 See Madison to Thomas Jefferson, March 18, 1782, note 6. 3 For Jefferson’s latest refusal to assume his seat in the Virginia House of Dele gates, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:184—87. 4 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in cipher. Ralph Izard had assumed his seat in Congress on June 1.JCC, 22:320. 5 This letter by the marquis de BarW-Marbois appeared in the June 11 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet with the following explanation: “The following Extract of a Letter written from Philadelphia, by a Gentleman in Office to one of the principal Officers in the State of New-Jersey, cannot fail to be acceptable to the Public. We are autho rized to vouch for the Authenticity of the Facts contained in it.” For the text of the letter and a discussion of the extent of Madison’s collaboration with Marbois in the preparation of it for publication, which was designed to relieve public concern over French losses at the Battle of the Saints and to bolster sentiment for the French alliance, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:326-30.
