June 12, 1782 579 discount. This he says is very advantageous. He has laid out 3000 Dollars and says he can serve you in the same way. This would be serving the Public & yourself at the same Time. Loan office Certifi cates have again fell to 22d. a Dollar. I wish you was here, as your Money ought not to lay Dead. Mr. Risk says that the Cotton arrived but was all snapped up the first night it came, and before he got there next Morning all was gone. He seems very uneasy abt it, and says the first that comes down he will get it. Enclosed is a number of Letters from Holland, which I thought best to open, that they might be forwd by express if necessary. I should have wrote last Post but was out of Town. Hanny has the last Bradfords Paper. My kind Love to Mrs. P., Patty, Johnny &c. Am my Dr Sir, Yours Affecty, B RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). John Hanson to Philip Thomas Dear Doctr. Philadelphia June 12th 1782 I wrote you a few lines yesterday 1 by the post and inclosed you the paper of that day. That the french have lost Six Ships in the late engagement, is a fact I am afraid is too well Confirmed, but I console my self in the hope that whenever we have an Account of the Damage the British have Sustained (which Account we must not expect to receive from them) it will be found to be equal to that of the french. The Conduct of the French in this engagement notwith standing the loss of so many of their ships must redound much to their honor & Credit. They have a fleet much inferior to that of the British protected their large Convoy and made a junction with the Spanish fleet, which was their main object, and which it was the designs of the British to prevent and it may with no great impropri ety be said that they have gained A Victory. The Combined fleets being still Superior to the British, it is probable the intended expe dition against Jamaica will go on, God grant it Success. Should the Surrender of that important place be Accomplished; that with the other losses the British have Sustained in the West Indies and other places would perhaps dispose them Seriously to think of peace, but I am still of opinion that nothing would Contribute to bring about that happy event so much as expelling them totally from this Cont[in]ent. Their present System is to distress us by a presecution of our trade, And to endeavour to Convince us, that it is not in the power of our Ally to give us that protection, and furnish us with the
