582 June 12, 1782 RC (PPL: Logan-Dickinson Papers). 1 Wharton inclosed a note of this date from the assistant secretary at war William Jackson informing him that the two “brass twelve pounders . . . would not answer your purpose as they are battering cannon and weigh 2200 lbs. each.” Logan- Dickinson Papers, PPL. 2 It has not been determined which “secret Resolutions” Wharton intended to send Dickinson. John Lowell to Rebecca Lowell Philadelphia June 14th. 1782 Mr. Sears who has been a Fellow Lodger with us sets out for Boston this Morning. He will call on you with this & inform you that he leaves me in the most perfect Health. This will be equal to a long Epistle to my beloved Friend, but to me would not supply the Place of that Tete at "fete which I have brought myself to enjoy every Time I set down to scribble familiarly to you, 1 tis for this Reason I have postponed the descriptive & narrative Subjects which would have afforded me at all Times Employment for the Pen an Hour or two but, which even if I had given Play to the warmest Powers of my Imagination would have been in some Sense only on Matters of Indifference & would not have led me to that Effusion of tender sociality which gives me the highest Relish in the Expression & I venture to depend on it is tasted with as keen a Gout where it is received. I am now looking out with eager Impatience for Mr. Jackson. I have for so great a Part of my Life been used to an unbounded Communication of Thought to a faithfull Bosom that when I cannot have that near me which from every concurrent Cause furnishes the best Repose for the Mind after Fatigue or Enjoyment. I feel too great a Vacuity to be supplied even tolerably by any other Substitute than its next best Counterpart a tried and valuable Friend—But my Impatience has still another Source. I expect a second Letter from my dearest Girl. I hope to receive a Confirmation of her established Health & an Assurance that it shall be guarded by Care & attention. Mr. Jackson’s Departure has been so long foreseen & viewed as the Mode best calculated to convey Intelligence that I flatter myself with receiving almost a volume by him—if I am disappointed in the Size of it I hope you will add a Supplement by the next Opportunity. 2 I believe I shall not purchase a Carriage here. I have seen none the air of which has pleased my eye & as Taste is factitious depending altogether on Habit & Fashion I conclude the best I could procure would disappoint the Expecta tions of my Friends. If you think best you may engage one to be made if I do not contradict it within a Fortnight after Consultation with Mr. Jackson. Almost one half the Time is gone which was stated
