June 14, 1782 583 as the Interval of our Meeting, I feel in no Sense shaken in my Resolution of Punctuality nor any new Motives for wishing to alter them even if they were now to form & Business & your Situation were both out of the Scale. I have met with no Disgust here either in my Business or Society, but like most other Theatres when you are once behind the Scene the Movements appear so little extraordin ary that the Edge of Curiosity once abated every thing appears common. There appears to me to be but few great & not many little People among us—they are generally of the middle Size. I gave Messrs. Root & Montgomery who are Members of Congress & gone to our State on Business Letters to several of my Friends. I omitted to write to you as I had written the same Day & they expected to be sometime on the Road. I have since wished I had introduced them to you. If they have not returned before this reaches I wish you would invite them to Tea or Dinner for their Sakes & mine. I send two Pincushions for Nancy & Sally. They are not very valuable but they will receive them as the Tokens of an absent & affectionate Father who promises himself much Enjoyment from their Virtues, Providence having given them the Power of being good & of Conse quence Happy but more of being agreeable & rendering others happy. My Love to the other Children—send my affectionate Re membrance to Mr. & Mrs. Cabot & our other Friends near them— the same to your Father, Brothers & Sisters. I need not ask you to accept, you cannot reject the same, only at a much higher Degree on the Thermometrical Scale from your, J Lowell RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1483). 1 Lowell had recently written to Rebecca on June 11 and 12. bMS Am 1483 and 1659, MH-H. 2 In his June 11 letter to Rebecca, Lowell had expressed his chagrin at Jonathan Jackson’s delayed departure for Philadelphia in the following terms. “I am almost tempted to wish that Mr. Jackson had never entertained the Idea of coming here highly as I expect to enjoy his Company. 1 am sure I wish he had not communicated that Design to my best beloved girl for the Knowledge of so good an Opportunity has prevented you I am afraid from affording me the gratification which I should otherwise had reed, by your Letters. Twenty People at least & among them two Posts have arrived from Boston since I left it & I hear by several that I am to have another Letter by Mr. Jackson but these bring me none.” bMS Am 1483, MH-H. Charles Thomson to Robert R. Livingston Office of the Secretary of Congress Dear Sir, June 14. 1784 [1782] 1 The letter to his Most Christian Majesty as reported has been agreed to. I enclose a copy that you may have a draught prepared. It is the
