June 17, 1782 585 nell committee charged with considering “the propriety of appointing more briga diers.” See PCC, item 186, fols. 34, 38; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 24:301-2. When Washington complained to Lincoln on July 3 that the “non appointment of a Judge Advocate is extremely injurious to the service,” Congress promptly elected Innes, but delayed transmitting his appointment on July 10 until Cornell’s committee could make a special report on “the pay and emoluments proper to be allowed a judge-advocate.” The following day Congress adopted the committee’s recommendation that the judge advocate’s salary be reduced to $75 per month with allowances for subsistence, servant, forage, and wagon. Innes declined the appoint ment, however, and on September 18 Congress elected Richard Howell who also declined to serve. Finally, Congress responded to Washington’s reminder that the deputy judge advocate, Lt. Thomas Edwards, had been discharging the duties of the entire department the previous three months by elevating Edwards to the post on October 2. See JCC, 22:378—82, 23:572, 586, 629, 632; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 24:392, 25:145, 239. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia, June 17th, 1782 Your Excellency’s Letter of the 7th Instant was Reed, the 13th. 1 We should be happy to hear that Messrs Montgomery & Root have been so Successful in Executing their Trust as to produce great & Good Effects to the United States. 2 The Copy of the Act of Assembly Transmitted by your Excellency impowering Congress to levey & collect Duties on Importations in our State was Read in Congress and seemed to Meet with their General Approbation. The Caution therein taken to Preserve our own Rights & to Prohibit the Expenditure of any Part of the Money so Collected, upon the Half-Pay-Establishment, was particularly pleasing to some. A Committee is appointed to Draught an Ordi nance to Regulate the Collection but this Cannot be compleated untill Rhode Island and Maryland have Passed similar Acts, the other States having already done it. The only Intelligence yet Re ceived Concerning the Engagements between the Fleets in the West Indies is through the Letters of British-Navy-Officers which leaves us still in the Dark as to the Truth. We are at a Loss to Conjecture what is the Object of Sir Guy Carleton in sending an Armament to the Eastward, no Account of their Opperations being Yet Received. No Intelligence from Abroad has been had since our last. The Condition of the Public Finance Requires the most Effectual Exer tions of the Several States. The Financer’s Notes are in full Credit & Paid on Sight, but the Discount upon them in some of the Eastern States Demonstrates the Necessity of a Fund in Every State to take up those Bills when Presented, which would take from Speculators their Arguments for a discount (viz) the Great Delay, Expence, and
