586 June 17, 1782 Risque of Transportation of those Bills to Philadelphia; and of the Money Back to Boston, &c. We are, with the greatest Esteem & Respect, Your Excellency’s Most Humi Servts. Elipht Dyer Benj Huntington RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Huntington and signed by Huntington and Dyer. 1 Governor Trumbull’s June 7 letter to President Hanson and the enclosed act of the Connecticut Assembly authorizing Congress to impose a five percent impost on certain imports were read in Congress on June 14. See]CC, 22:333n; PCC, item 66, 2:236—43; and Public Records of Connecticut, 4:153—54. 2 “Col. Root & Mr. Montgomery arrived yesterday,” Oliver Ellsworth observed in a June 7 letter to Benjamin Huntington, “& had an audience & long Speech made before both Houses which I wish may be of some use to stimulate to the necessary exertions which are far too languid.” Bright Collection, NRom. Eliphalet Dyer to Roger Sherman Sir Philadelphia June 17th 1782 I receivd your kind favor of the 7th Instant. We arrived at this place in about 9 days after set out from Hartford, tarryed one day at New Windsor being the sabbath. Find Congress Composed of an Agreeable set of Gentlemen, affairs goe on with Decency & Har mony, tho far from that Croud of Important business which for merly pressed on Congress. The principal Objects are to lessen our Expenditures as far as possible, tho I find the Establishments in many departments much too high which am Informed arose from their being made at a time when the New Currencies of paper bills were to take place tho on one hand Esteem’d as solid Cash in Nomination yet at the time known as a fact that they were not of but half the real Value by which means a high sum was given which they find difficult to reduce even when it must be paid in specie. The regulating the Courts of Appeal &c. are under Consideration, also a Comtee Appointed to make a draught for establishing and Collect ing the Impost proposed to be laid, we have recievd the Act from our Assembly, but there are still two or 3 States behind, tho we hear they have passed the Necessary Acts yet they are not transmitted to Congress. The Action between the French & English fleets in the West Indies has undoubtedly turned out to the disadvantage of the for mer. The French we believe have lost 7 or 8 Capital Ships among which is the Ville de Paris taken with the Admiral de Grass, tho the Accounts are different as to the Consequences, by some Accounts we are Informed that the French have since made a Junction with the Spanish and thereby will be able to maintain such a Superiority
