588 June 18, 1782 Mr. Searle was on board the Vessel from L Orient, she was drove on Shore by a Frigate at the Capes, the Crew & Passengers got safe on Land with the Letters, but the Enemy got the Vessel worth about £100,000 here. Mr. Searle is expected here this Evening. 1 It is certain that the French have been badly beat in the West Indies notwithstanding what your Frenchman told you, and I suspect the Jamaica Voyage is over—but I am not in the least discouraged, all will be right at last. The moment of difficulty has hitherto been the Scene of our deliverance. I am much obliged for your Care & Attention to my little Ewe Lamb. I doubt not she will greatly profit by her residence at White Hall. There will not be any more Int. pd. by Bills, so that all the Certif. are now on a Footing, wherefore I shall not proceed or give any orders for that Commodity, but Mr. R. will do the needfull as to the Pay Masters. They are drawn by him at Mr. M’s request and I doubt not their certainty. Mr. R. thinks you quite right & has proceeded himself in the same line. I will call Mr. John F and get Coll Ramsays Money if practicable, and also the Rent and observe your directions. I have reed your Ballance of 55 Doll, of the Minister. Rents are falling as every thing else rises. The Merchants hang their Heads—great Fortunes must take Place of such heavy Losses. I enclose the News Paper, that you may known what passes here. June 19th. Last Night I had the Pleasure of seeing Mr. Searle, who had just arrived. He looks wretchedly—complains greatly and ap pears much distressed. He has lost all—even his Cloaths, not even having a spare Shirt left. He had on board to the amount of about £500 Sterl. He brings but little News, excepting that he supposes our Independance was acknowledged by the Dutch as about the begining of May. This he supposes from strong Circumstances. The Dutch would have then at Sea about 30 Sail of Men of War. I enclose an Extract of a Letter from Mr. J. A. at Amsterdam, to Mr. Liv ingston which you must see. An Express from Boston with a Mail from France is just arrived, but nothing yet has transpired. Am with Love to Mrs P., Patty, Johnny and all Friends, My Dr Sir, Yours Afftly, ® RC (NNC: Scudder Manuscripts). i james Searle, former Pennsylvania delegate to Congress, was returning from an unsuccessful two-year mission to Europe to obtain a foreign loan for Pennsylvania. See these Letters, 15:413n.l.
