June 18, 1782 589 John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee $ ear s > r Philadelphia June 18th 1782 I had the honor of writing to your Excellency by the last post 1 and presume I Should have been favoured with line from you by yester days post had he not have been robbed of the Mail. 2 Am in hopes your Excellency Will acquaint me by the first Opportunity whether you have drawn £400 red money for me Agreeable to a former request. I have nothing worth Communicating and therefore Shall Conclude with assuring you that I am with the highest esteem, Your Excellency most Obedt Servt, John Hanson RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 Not found. 2 Hanson also reported this theft in a brief letter of this date to Philip Thomas adding the following explanation. “The paragraph inserted in the papers of last week of a packet being taken and Carried into North Carolina with dispatches from New York has occasioned it is supposed the attempt upon the post in hopes of regaining those dispatches, but they have for the present been disappointed ” Hanson Collection, MdAA. James Madison to Edmund Randolph Dear sir Philada. 18th. June 1782 I reed, no letter from you yesterday nor shall I receive any for that week unless it be through the channel of Rivington’s Gazette, the Post having been robbed of his mail on Saturday evening last in Maryland. 1 I hope your letter did not contain anything not in Cy pher which is unfit for the public eye. The policy however wch. seems to direct Carlton’s measures renders it probable that he will decline the mean expedient pursued on such occasions by his pre decessors for giving pain to individuals. 2 It will be proper for us to take from this accident an admonition to extend the use of our Cypher. The destination of the fleet which sailed lately from N. York is not yet known. No official intelligence from the West Indies is yet come hand. No intelligence of any kind from Europe. The business of Congress is too un[in]teresting to merit recital. The trade with N. York begins to excite general indignation and th[r]eatens a loss of all our hard money. The continued drains which it makes from the bank must at least contract its utility, if it produces no greater mischief to it. The Legislature of N. Jersey are devising a new remedy for this disgraceful & destructive traffic, and a Com-
