590 June 18, 1782 mittee of Congress are also employed in the same work. 3 I have little expectation that any adequate cure can be applied, whilst our for eign trade is annihilated & the Enemy in New York make it an object to keep open this illicit channel. Adieu J M. Jr. [P.S.] I have written to Mr. Jones. 4 If he sd. not be at Richmond open the letter. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers, (Hutchinson), 4:350. 1 For Madison’s report on the mail robbery and the subsequent action taken by Congress and the affected states, see John Hanson to Certain States, June 19, 1782, note 2. 2 Madison is referring to the British practice of publishing intercepted letters in Rivington’s Royal Gazette. 3 For the New Jersey legislature’s “remedy” and Madison’s June 19 committee report on illicit trade with the enemy, which was adopted by Congress on June 21, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:351n.7 and 351-53. See also Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, April 2, note 1; and John Hanson to the States, June 24, 1782. 4 Not found. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir Philada. 18th June 1782. The Post having been robbed of his mail on his return through Maryland, we had not the honor yesterday of receiving any letter from Your Excellency. If it reaches us at all it will probably be through the channel of the New York Gazette. Since our letter of the 4th instant which inclosed a proposition from {Count Beniouski some circumstances have come to our knowledge} 1 which induce us to {believe} that {altho’ for the reasons stated in our letter he is not to be classed with common adventurers yet his professions and undertakeings greatly exceed his resources for fulfilling them}. In particular we have decisive evidence that [he] {cannot command the aid of the French Court in raising and trans porting his legion and it is of itself evident that no private funds can be equal to such an expence}. We do no injustice to {his character in adding that the effect of the rejection of his plan by Congress has betrayed a temper which is very far from enhancing our esteem for him}. The destination of the fleet which lately sailed from N. York is still unknown; nor have we reced. a word of intelligence from any other quarter. We have the honor to be with the greatest respect & esteem Yr. Excellency’s Obt. & humble Servants. J. Madison Jr. Theok. Bland Jr.
