600 June 24, 1782 Bills of Exchange he purchased of British officers and which are returned protested. He is in for it I think he says to the tune of about £1000. You seem to have a good Appetite for news. I wish I could Satiate it with that that was Agreeable, but there never was a greater dearth than at present, little of any Kind stiring. The trade of this place is allmost ruined by the Enemies Cr[u]izers, hardly a vessel escapes them, there has been no arrivals from france for a long time. A few days Ago a ship from thence was chased ashore by the Enemy the Crew escaped by takeing to their Boat. The Enemy got her off and She is since arrived at New York. She was a most valuable prize a fine Copper Bottomed new Ship, and had it is said more Dry Goods on Board (and those of the very best quallity) than ever was imported into the Delaware in any one Ship, her Cargo at the lowest Computation is said to be worth one hundred thousand pounds. Capt Asgill is not yet Executed, it is expected Still that Lippencut the perpetrator of Huddys murder will be given up. I wish Mr. P. may find it Convenient to Send the order you mention it will be most Acceptable. As to my wheat do with it as you please. Taxs’s must be paid and you cant dispose of it better. I understand the last Assembly have imposed 5/ to be paid in Specie in August next, I wish it may be punctually paid, and Sent to the Cont. Treasury, it never was wanted more than at this time. I hear too that £60,000 Specie is to be immediately raised by the sale of British and Confiscated property, this tho’ but a small part of our States quota will be a great help, and if the other States do as much in proportion, will keep the wheels in motion. Present our love to Mr & Mrs. Harrison. The same to yourself and the little ones, yrs. JH P.S. Wines of all sorts, Spirits and Sugar are raised to a most enor mous price Madeira 30/ a gallon by the quarter Cask and the other articles in proportion—too high I think to speculate in and no Credit is given. If any thing Can be purchased while I am here which I thinjc would yeild profit I will let you know. RC (MdHi: Hanson Letters). Charles Thomson to William Barton Sir, June 24, 1782. I am much obliged for the perusal of the elements of Heraldry which I now return. I have just dipt into it so far as to be satisfied that it may afford a fund of entertainment and may be applied by a State to useful purposes. I am much obliged for your very valuable
