June 25, 1782 601 Elias Boudinot to Hannah Boudinot My dearest Love, Philadelphia June 25th. 1782 Did you imagine that I could have been so negligent, as to have suffered the Post to have returned without a Line, acquainting you how I was. The Pleasure afforded me by indulging myself in writing to a beloved Wife, is so rich a Compensation, that I wait with eagerness for the weekly opportunity, which gives you as often the Trouble of reading my Scrawls. I was chagrined at the Carelessness of the Post Master in sending my Letters to Morris Town, tho I presume by Mr. Pintards getting his by return of Post, you was not without yours. I also wrote to Susan and believe I enclosed it in yours. The extreme Heat of the weather has relaxed me greatly, but not so much as I expected—but the more I suffer by it, the more I am pleased that my dearest Love is enjoying a freer Air and more Comfort. As I would wish to promote Mollys best Interests, I could not have any objection against her doing every thing for herself that would tend to increase her present of Fortescue “De Laudibus Legum Anglia?,”! and shall be happy to have it in my power to make a suitable return. I enclose a copy of the Device by which you have displayed your skill in heraldic science, and which meets with general approbation. 2 I am, sir, your obedient humble servant, (Signed) Chas. Thomson. MS not found; reprinted from Proceedings of the Massachusetts Historical Society 9 (September 1866): 352. J 1 Probably a copy of Francis Gregor’s 1737 edition of Sir John Fortescue’s De Laudibus Legum Anglie (first printed in 1545), for which see the preface to the Cam bridge University Press edition (1942; reprint ed„ Holmes Beach, Fla.: William M Gaunt 8c Sons, 1986), p. ix. 2 The Proceedings of the Massachusetts Historical Society, from which this text of Thomsons letter is taken, also contains the following note by Barton concerning the design of the Great Seal of the United States. “In June 1782, when Congress were about to form an armorial device for a great seal for the United States, Charles Thomson, Esq. then Secretary, with the Hon. Dr. Arthur Lee and Elias Boudinot, members of Congress, called on me and consulted me on the occasion. The Great Seal, for which I furnished those gentlemen with devices, (as certified by Chas. Thomson, Esq.) was adopted by Congress on the 20th of June 1782. Mr. Thomson informed me, four days after, that they met with general approbation." Ibid., 9:352. 6 The adoption of the great seal has been recounted in great detail by Richard S. Patterson and Richardson Dougall, The Eagle and the Shield: A History of the Great Seal of the United States (Washington, D.C.: U. S. Government Printing Office, 1978). For Barton’s and Thomson’s role in the creation of the design adopted by Congress on June 20, see especially pp. 71-88; PCC, item 23, fols. 131-42, 179-84- and ICC 22:338—40. ’ J ’
