602 June 25, 1782 Happiness or future Provision in Life—and should think she ought to embrace the present opportunity was your representation of mat ters the whole Truth on this Subject. But she must & ought to consider every side of the Question, lest she, should involve herself in greater difficulties than she expects. A Garrison Town is a very improper Place for a young woman, especially where the officers & Soldiers have so much Power & Influence as they have in New York. Again, there is a great Certainty, of the City’s being beseiged in Case of a Fleet coming from Europe, which would render it very dangerous, as I suppose no Women or other Persons would be suffered to come within our Lines, after the Siege is began. And if it should not take Place this Summer, it must be next. Her going at this late Day in the Enemies Lines, would make her hereafter very ob noxious to the americans, and perhaps expose her to be fined or otherways punished in Case we hereafter got the City, to a greater amount than any thing she could earn while she was there. This was the Case with poor Mrs. Keirny, altho’ she was forced on us. It is proper to inform her of the whole Circumstances and then she can judge for herself, and if she determines to go, we must give her every assistance in our Power. Apropos—Has Martin been consulted—what will he say to it. May not this be a scheme to bring him to an Explanation. I begin to think Molly is a piece of a politician—a good & well laid Plan really—I am diverted with the Idea. I read your request to Mrs. Risk—she says she has no objection, but then there’s her plaging Husband in the way—and he is an ill natured fellow, that wants all to himself. He has no benevolence for his fellow Creatures. However as he talks of going to Amboy, if he calls at Baskinridge & you will return the Compliment and oblige Mrs. Risk as much, I do not know but it may alter his Sentiments. He talks of writing to you on the Subject, and as the weather is too Hot for any Business of Consequence, there will be time enough for your Answer. As to the Cows, you must use your own Judgment about pasturing them. My kindest Love to all Friends, Sister, the Children—Molly—the whole Family &c. Remember me to Susan—to whom & M [. . .] I most omit writing. Am my Dearest Love with Esteem & Affection, Your Husband, Boudinot RC (NjP: Stimpson-Boudinot Collection).
