June 25, 1782 603 John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee My Dear sir Philadelphia June 25th 1782 I have received your Excellencys favour of the 20th by the post. Am much obliged to you for the trouble you have taken in procur ing the Sum of red money I requested you to draw for me as an Additional favour must request your Excellency to Keep it untill I have occasion to Call for it. The mail of which the post was robbed I hope will not afford Sir Guy any very important intelligence. If the Account published in the papers of a packet having been taken and Carried into North Carolina be true, it is probable the regaining those papers was the object. Congress have not received a line from their Deputies Since the[y] left this place nor was any information respecting their Busi ness expected. Capt. Asgill is not yet Executed, it is Still expected that Lippencut the perpretrater of Huddys Murder will be given up. This affair has put the British Commander into a most disagreeable Situation And will Occasion I hope Such Annimosities between the regulars and refugees as will not be Speedily Settled. I find a 5s specie Tax is to be Collected in our State in August, 1 to be paid into the Continental Treasury and that Sixty thousand pounds is also to be raised by the Sale of British and Confiscated property. 2 This tho’ Short of our Quota will be of great Service and if the other States furnish as much in proportion will it is to be hoped Keep the wheels in Motion. There is at present a very great dearth of news. Have inclosed you a paper. I don’t write to my son by this post, be pleased to let him Know we are well. With best wishes for your health and happiness, I am my Dear sir, Your Excellencys most hble Sert, John Hanson RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 For the proceedings that led to the adoption of this Maryland bill on June 8, see Votes and Proceedings of the House of Delegates of the State of Maryland, April Session 1782 pp. 126-27, 146, DLC(ESR). 2 For the Maryland Assembly’s adoption on June 15 of this “bill for the sale of certain confiscated British property,” see ibid., pp. 163-64. James Madison to Arthur Lee Dear Sir Philada. 25th June 1782. The bill which you lately inclosed to me 1 was duly honored, and the contents of it are in my hands subject to any order which you may wish to give. A private letter from Mr. Adams of the 11th of April, informs his
