606 June 25, 1782 ily concluded, a peace with Britain may place their trade under a disadvantageous competition with that both of England & of France. I am Dr Sir with sincere regard Yr. obt friend & Servt. J. Madison Jr. [P.S.] The Gazette of this morning is so barren that I thought it wd. be less interesting than one of Wednesday last, which contains a very singular production of the American Loyali[s]ts. 3 Reprinted from Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:369-70. 1 See ibid., pp. 345-47. 2 Under the ninth of the Articles of Confederation Congress had the “exclusive right and power” to establish “rules for deciding in all cases, what captures on land or water shall be legal.” JCC, 19:217. 3 The June 19 Pennsylvania Gazette reprinted from the March 9 London Chronicle a “Declaration and Address” of American loyalists in London critical of British military policy in America. James Madison to Edmund Randolph Dear Sir Philada. 25th of June 1782 Your favor of the 15th 1 being more fortunate than the preceding one came safe to hand yesterday. The loss of the mail is the more provoking as it is said to have contained a packet from N.Y. which had been intercepted on its passage to England & carried into N. Carolina. The illicit trade with the British lines has been pushed so far under the encouragement of the enemy, as to threaten a deep wound to our Finances. Congress have renewed their exhortation to the States on this subject and recommended to the people through them, a patriotic cooperation with the public measures. This trade we have also discovered is carried on with considerable effect, under collusive captures. This branch of the iniquity falls properly within the purview of Congress and an ordinance for its excision is in the hands of a Committee. A private letter from Mr. Adams of the 11th of April informs his correspondent that 5 of the 7 provinces had decided in favor of a Treaty with the U. S. and that the concurrence of the remaining 2 might be expected in a few days. A Leyden paper of a subsequent date, reduces the exception to a single Province. It would seem from a Memorial from the Merchants to the States General, that this revolution had been greatly stimulated by an apprehension that a sudden pacification might exclude their commerce from some of the advantages which England may obtain. The Memorial appeals to the effect of the American trade on the
