610 June 27, 1782 John Hanson to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia, 27th June 1782. I have the honor to acknowlege the receipt of your Excellency’s favor of the 24th inst. with the papers therein inclosed, which were immediately laid before Congress. 1 With the highest sentiments of respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s Obedt. & very humb. Servt, John Hanson RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Hanson. 1 For Washington’s June 24 letter to Congress, expressing his distress “at the Languor and Inertion of the several States in sending on the Recruits to the Army, which have been requested,” see PCC, item 152, 10:589-94; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 24:384—85. James Duane to Mary Duane My dearest Polly Philad. 29th June 1782. I got safely and in health to this City last Fryday week, the Heat of the Weather rendering a more expeditious Journey inconvenient. 1 The next day Doctr. Latham called on me for my Letters, assuring me that he meant to set out the Monday following. Concluding that he would be punctual I preferred that Conveyance to the post; but I have since learned that he has not even yet thought fit to return to his Family, who have so long been looking for him. I know nothing of his Business here but his behaviour is unaccountable. I had the pleasure of meeting young Mr Le Roy who after many difficulties has at length reached his native Country. He appears to be a decent well behaved young Gentleman and from the Informa tion of a person of Distinction who knew him in Amsterdam sustains a very good Character. He has promised to dine with me this day and only waits to hear from his Friends to set out homeward. He had been unfortunate in trusting to Dr Latham to announce his Arrival. By this Young Gentleman I shall write to you again. The Season here is tolerable and the Town very healthy. There is no News of the least Importance; but what will be found in the News papers which I send for the Amusement of my Friends. Present my affectionate Regards to all my Friends. Kiss and bless for me our dear children and believe me to be, with the utmost sincerity and affection, my dearest Polly, Your ever faithful Husband. Jas. Duane
