June 30, 1782 611 RC (NHi: Duane Papers). 1 Duane had resumed his seat in Congress on Monday June 24. JCC, 22:345. His accounts, certified by New York auditor Peter Curtenius on June 21, 1783, autho rized payment of £352 for attendance at Congress (“176 days at 40/”) from June 14 to December 17, 1782, including travel time. Continental Congress Miscellany, DLC. John Rutledge to Nathanael Greene Dr Sir, Philada. June 30. 1782. I had the pleasure of receiving, by Mr. Izard, your Letter of April 25th. Your & his Accounts of the Condition of the Army, for want of Cloathing & Spirits, are truly deplorable, tho’ not worse than I expected. I imagine greater Attention would have been paid, to supplying it with those Articles, but, for an Opinion that C. Town was about to be evacuated. This Opinion I found very prevalent when I arrived here. Indeed many People cannot yet be convinced that an Evacuation will not, very soon, take Place. However, I never could see any reason why, in the present Situation of Affairs, the Enemy should leave it, &, even if they had such a Matter in Contem plation, I fear the unfortunate Issue of the Action between Rodney & Count de Grasse will retard the Execution of the Measure—as the Consequences of that Engagement, & the Lateness of the Season will, in all probability, prevent the Marquis de Vaudreuille from prosecuting an Attack on Jamaica, & put the Enemy from immedi ate Apprehensions for their W. India possessions, which they will not, therefore^ reinforce by the Garrison of C. Town. I wish I may be mistaken in this Opinion. I shall do every Thing in my power towards effecting the necessary Supplies for the Southern Army, & will write to you soon fully on that Head. We have just heard that a Packet from England lately arrived at N. York but the News, (if any,) which she has brought is not yet come to Hand. I have no such Expectations of a speedy Peace as some People flattered themselves with, from the Change of Ministry. Indeed I think a Continuance of the old would have been better for Us than the present Lot. How ever, a short Time will probably shew us what We are to expect. The new Ministry do not seem to have made up their Minds upon Matters, when Carleton left England. His letter to Genl. Washing ton, which you see in the Papers, (a very immaterial & unimportant one,) is all that We have had from him. The Dutch have, in all probability, acknowledged our Independence, e’er now. Mr. Adams in his last dispatches, of 26 March, says, that such an Acknowledg ment would certainly take place, tho’ it might perhaps be delayed for 3 or 4 Weeks—the Prince having declared that he saw no Chance of stemming the Torrent, & therefore he shd. not attempt it. The Irish are likely to obtain further Benefits in Consequence of the
