612 June 30, 1782 Contest in which G. Britain is involved. I congratulate you on the fortunate discovery of the Plot which some of your Troops were meditating. 1 Wishing you Health, & every Felicity, I am with great Esteem & Regard, dr. Sir, yr. most obed. Servt, J. Rutledge RC (DLC: Greene Papers). . 1 In April Greene had hanged or otherwise punished several mutinous soldiers of the Pennsylvania line, some of whom had instigated the Morristown mutiny in January 1781. See Theodore G. Thayer, Nathanael Greene: Strategist of the American Revolution (New York: Twayne Publishers, 1960), pp. 397-98. Arthur Middleton to Edward Rutledge [June ? 1782] 1 This comes by Cap. Kalteizen upon whose return 1 flatter myself to have the pleasure of hearing from you, as there is not much prospect of my leaving this previous to his arrival here. I dont write to Gov. M— 2 as it is yr Brother’s 3 Turn to write the pub. Letter, & I suppose he will be fuller. Pray tell him from me that the Cypher is not to be depended on in Case of Interception; for during yr B’s absence who had forgot to leave the Alphabet with us, Mr. Z 4 & myself, soon decypher’d his last Letter with very little Trouble. I have mention’d that all the money arising from the [Indigo] has been absorbd by the necessities of an unfortunate friend, so that none will remain to purchase. If that Idea still prevails it will be necessary to send on more Indigo as a fund for that purpose, & I beg leave to hint also that It should be thrown into other hands than those of Mr. R. 5 whose Connection with the S.I.F., 6 the Sieur H i & other Speculators may defeat the purpose. Knowing yr. Brother’s usual Sagacity I confess to you I was surprized when I found Mr. R constituted agent of the State, & was sorry Mr. M 8 who was here at the Time, mention’d the Business to him. He (M R) 9 is Leagued with such a set of that I do not think him fit to be trusted with a matter of that Nature; surely among our own Citizens who are from Circumst[ance]s obliged to remain here might be selected by your Delegates to conduct it, whose Zeal, Integrity, & indeed Inter est in Conducting it with Secrecy & Caution, would at least be equal to those of any who are not connected with the Country, whose Patriotism is by [no] means Conspicuous; & in a word whose Interest it may be, I had almost said it is, to make the Article wanted come at the dearest Rate possible. I Speak freely to you upon this Subject because it has hurt me, & I find from Conversation that It has given [. . ,]nt to some of our Countrymen. I dont blame yr. B. who I make
