618 July 2, 1782 price is too low at this time. I assure you Sir—that I am distressed for want of money and hope your Excellency and the Honorable Council will furnish me with two hundred pounds as soon as possible. Lippancut is not yet given up, but it is expected he will in a Short time. No news more than you will find in the inclosed paper. I am my Dr sir with the highest esteem and regard, Yr Excellencys most humble Servt, JH. 2 RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). > See JCC, 22:361. 2 Hanson also wrote a brief personal note to his son-in-law, Philip Thomas, this date, which is in the Hanson Papers, MdHi. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear Sir Philada. 2d July 1782. The confidential & circumstancial communications in your favor of the 20th of June 1 have afforded me much pleasure. Those which relate to the scheme of {garbling the delegation} 2 were far from surprizing me. In a conversation with Mr. J. before he left Philada. 3 it was our joint inference from a review of certain characters & circumstances that such a scheme would be tried. The prevailing temper of the {present delegation is too little flexible to the factious and vindictive plans of a particular member 4 of it} to be relished by {him and his adherents. No delegate} who refuses to {league with him in the war against the financeir} must {expect to be long at ease in his post. The} disappointment {in the affair of the flags will increase the venom against the minister. The first} conversation {I had with the doctor after his return} clearly {betrayed how much it rankled in his bosom}. No addition has been made to our foreign intelligence in the course of the past week. Some of the republications from the Euro pean papers herewith sent throw light however on the general state of foreign affairs. Those which relate to Ireland in particular are very interesting. The Empress of Russia appears by the Memorial of her Ministers to be more earnest in forwarding a reconciliation between England & Holland than is consistent with the delicate impartiality she has professed as Mediatrix, or with that regard which we flattered ourselves she felt for the interests of the U. States. One article of our late communications from France was that the interest {on the certificates is no longer to be continued} and that provision {must be made} within ourselves. This has caused great commotion & clamour among the class of public creditors, against Congress, who they believe or affect to believe have transferred the
