July 3, 1782 621 States unitedly Accede to our Independance is Quite Uncertain, but it is Expected Something Important will soon be done. It is said our Enemies in New-York, are Obliging the Inhabitants all to bear Arms, probable they Intend to Send part of their Regular Troops to the West Indies—present appearances seem to Indicate a Very Inac tive Campaign. The Bank is well Established here and full Credit is given to their Bills. Several of the States have begun to pay Money towards their proportion of the 8 Million Dollars. Congress have receiv’d the act from Massachusetts granting a Duty of five per Cent, but nothing can be done in this business at present as the State of Rhode Island have not passed any Act for that purpose. I have the Honour to be, with much Respect, Your most Obedt. Hume Servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). Arthur Middleton’s Draft Resolution [July 3-8, 1782] 1 Resolved That the Publick Creditors be Assured that it is the Determination of Congress to use their utmost Endeavours to main tain the publick Faith & Credit; That the holders of Certificates drawing Interest upon France be informed, that for the want of Funds there, Congress are obliged to withhold drawing Bills at present, but will comply with their Demands as soon as monies can be procured, which they have reason to expect will shortly be the Case; & that they be also informed that Congress will allow Com pound Interest, as a Satisfaction to the Creditors for Delay of Payment. 2 MS (ScHi: Middleton Papers). In the hand of Arthur Middleton. 1 On July 3 and 8 Congress received petitions from local merchants protesting actions taken by Superintendent of Finance Robert Morris stopping payments on loan office certificates, for which see James Madison to Edmund Randolph, July 2, 1782, note 5. Middleton apparently drafted this motion during that period in an effort to allay public concern, but there is no evidence that he ever presented it to Congress. 2 Middleton may also have drafted the following remarks at the same time to offer in support of the closing section of his resolution. “Basis of pub Credit is Confidence of Honesty & Ability in the Borrower, punctuality in paying the Interest, or adequate Compensation in Case of the delay of payment. Certainty of a Debt being fully discharged bona fide in the End, will occasion patience in the Interim; and a relyance upon the publick Faith will prevent Depretiation, and all the iniquitous practices to which Stock Jobbing gives Birth. Upon this Principle Compound Interest is just.” Middleton Papers, ScHi. Middleton’s continued concern over matters of public finance is also reflected in the following draft resolve located in the Middleton Papers but not recorded in the
