622 July 3, 1782 journals. “Resolved that in all Payments made by the United States, or others in their behalf in Paper Currency, at Times when the said Currency was less in Value than when the Money became due, Depreciation shall be allowed and the just Ballance paid when the State of the Treasury will admit thereof. Quaere, will an Action, by Sum mons lay against the Treasurer of a Sovereign State?” John Morin Scott to Richard Varick Dear Varick Philadelphia July 3d. 1782. I have had your favor by Mr. Duane. In it You desire that your Case on the Report of the Secretary at War may be brought shortly to a Decision. 1 It shall most certainly be done very speedily, as I have it fully in Design to return hence in about three Weeks; having made sufficient Experiment of this excessive Hot Climate, in the Course of ten days past, to avoid as much of it as possible. As it is uncertain whether I shall be at home soon enough to prosecute before the Legislature my Claim to the House & farm in the Possession of Sleght, I have authorized either of them by express designation in a new Memorial referring to my former or their Counsel effectually to represent Me on the Subject before the Legislature. The distresses of my poor Family are so great for Want of a comfortable Habitation, that I am wounded by every Letter from them on the Subject. I cannot doubt your willingness to give Lewis & McKnight your Council & Assistance in a Matter which so deeply affects the Happiness of my Family; & have accordingly in my Instructions referred them to You for the purpose. I am, Dear Varick, Your sincerely affectionate Friend & humble Servt. Jno. Morin Scott RC (NHi: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Addressed: “To Richard Varick Esqr. at Pogh- kepsie, State of New York.” 1 For Varick’s claim for compensation for the depreciation of his pay, which Scott had submitted to Congress in March and had been endeavoring to obtain a recom mendation on from the secretary at war, see Scott to Varick, April 9, 1782. Despite Scott’s assurance that he would continue to pursue Varick’s claim, no action was taken on it in 1782 and Varick renewed his quest in March 1783, when the case was again referred to Secretary at War Lincoln. But at that time Lincoln recommended against Varick, urging instead a general settlement of the claims of all officers “under similar circumstances.” And not until October 1783, after Varick made yet another appeal, did Congress finally recommend that the state of New York compensate him for the arrears of his pay and depreciation “and charge the same to the United States.” See PCC, item 78, 23:199-206, item 149, 2:399-406; and JCC, 24:184, 220, 25:538, 569, 760.
