624 July 6, 1782 failure cannot deprive him of that consolation which arises from conscious patriotism. Our embarrassments for money are great, not that there is any real want of it, but because by the constitution of the Bank, & until lately a most prosperous Commerce, in this tory City, has accumu lated all the money here & consequently disenabled the other States from paying taxes to support the war. The residence of Congress in the bosom of toryism & the encouragement given to them is as impolitic as it is unjust. It put such advantages into their hands, as in case the war shoud take a turn, may enable them to deliver us up tied & bound to the Enemy. It is extreme political weakness to suppose that because these men have changd their professions that they have therefore abandond their principles. These are what a tory never changes, & tho he may make them bend occasionally to his interest, yet whenever an opportunity offers you will be sure to find him the same enemy to public Liberty. I am sorry that the attempts you mention have in any measure succeeded; tho’ they have faild of the whole intent, wch. was to place the negociation of peace in corrupt and servile hands only. The wickedness of that old Man 3 is beyond example, & his good fortune in escaping the punishment due to his crimes so well known, is as extraordinary. Horace says—raro antecedentem scelestum deseruit pede poena claudo. 4 Dr Franklin is the rare exception to his rule. It may be proper to inform you that the present Secretary for foreign Affairs is a decided partizan of Dr. F. & enemy to Mr. Adams. Like a number of other Parrots here, he praises the former by rote, & undertakes to tutor the other. Whatever you see or receive from him you may consider as dictated by the french Minister. He made him what he is, & policy, or gratitude keeps him from disobey ing or renouncing his Maker. I have little hope of your succeeding where you are. On the contrary I doubt much whether the Empress will continue neuter, shoud G. Britain be hard-pressd. Her policy as well as his partiality must, in my judgment, direct her to prevent the accomplishment of the aim of France, to give Law on the Ocean, & make her lean towards G. Britain. 5 Farewell RC (MHi: Dana Papers). In Lee’s hand, though not signed. 1 For Dana’s May 17 letter, see Richard Lee, Life of Arthur Lee, LL.D., 2 vols. (Boston: Wells and Lilly, 1829), 2: 281-84. 2 For Congress’ rebuke of Dana for demonstrating an “independent spirit,” see James Madison to Edmund Randolph, April 23, 1782, note 6. 3 That is, Benjamin Franklin. 4 The quotation is from Horace Odes 3.2.31, and has been translated by C. E. Bennett: “rarely does Vengeance, albeit of halting gait, fail to o’ertake the guilty,
