626 July 8, 1782 this Time. Great Commotions have taken Place in this City on the Knowledge that Bills will be no longer drawn for the Interest of Loan Certificates. France has absolutely refused to furnish any more Money to be applied to this Use & there is no other but what may arise from the Impost which can be applied to this Use. I shall be with you I suppose before the next Meeting of the General Assembly. I am with much Esteem, your Friend & Servt, JLowell RC (NN: Samuel Adams Papers). 1 That is, Benjamin Franklin and John Jay. 2 Lowell was a member of a committee to which recommendations on the salaries of the American ministers abroad had been referred. The “disagreable Distinction in the salary recommended for John Adams had originated with the secretary for foreign affairs, Robert R. Livingston, and had been preserved in the original com mittee report on Livingston’s recommendations that had been referred to Lowells committee. The report of Lowell’s committee, which was read in Congress on June 14, recommended equal salaries for Adams, Franklin, and Jay from January 1st 1783, but no action had been taken on the report and the issue had become fundamentally transformed by the time debates were held on the recommendations of successor committees in November 1782 and April 1783. See JCC, 22:255—58, 306—7, 332—33, 24:312; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:278—82, 5:298—300. John Taylor Gilman to Josiah Bartlett Sj r> Philadelphia July 9. 1782 I take this Opporty to write you by Mr. Smith of Boston. The United States being informed by Doctr. Franklin’s Letters, that France did not hold themselves obliged to pay any more Bills for Interest due on the Loan Office Certificates and that they would be protested if drawn, a Committee was appointed to Consider of this Subject & report to Congress, the Substance of which report was that no more Bills Shoud be drawn for payments of Interest. 1 While this report was under Consideration a Memorial was presented signed by some of the Citizens requesting that Congress would postpone their Determination on this Subject untill they could have a Meeting of the Holders of Loan Office Certificates. 2 You will see by the News Paper what the Citizens have done. Some are for appropriating the five per Cent Impost for the purpose of paying the Interest on the whole Loans, others for funding those Loans which were made prior to the first of March 1778, and that this Interest shall be first discharged, but How can Congress appropri ate a fund which is not yet granted to them? What will take place I cannot say. We have no late News from Europe. Their are several reports in this City respecting Two Actions at the Southward in both which it is said Our Troops were successfull, but nothing to be
