628 July 9, 1782 will be the most Brilliant affair ever known in America. You will not Consider this as an Official Letter, but Communicate the Same so far as you may think proper. I should be glad if I had some Agreeable News to Communicate to you, but have not any thing Important. Make my Compliments to the Gentlemen of the Committee of Safety & inform Esqr. Dudley that it is my Opinion he must alter his Opinion respecting our having Peace this year, though every Appearance Seems to Indicate a Very Inactive Campaign. I am, with much Esteem & Respect, Your Hume Servt. John Taylor Gilman P.S. As I have not time to write my Hond Father by this Post your Communicating this to him will be Esteemed a favour. RC (MeHi: Fogg Collection). 1 See James Madison to Edmund Randolph, July 2, 1782, note 5. 2 This “Memorial" was undoubtedly the first of two petitions from a group of Philadelphians read in Congress on July 3 and 8 and referred to the superintendent of finance. See JCC, 22:373n.3, 376n.3; and PCC, item 43, fols. 177-86, item 78, 16:303-6. For Robert Morris’ lengthy report of July 29 on the public credit, submit ted in part as a response to these memorials, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:36-84. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir, Philadelphia July 9th 1782. Inclosed is a Letter for Collo. Bartlett. 1 I am Sensible you consider your-self under Some Obligations, to lay Letters Officially received before the Court, and as it might, (perhaps) be Improper to lay Such a Letter before the public, I thought proper to direct it to him. If he should not be present when you receive it, you will please (after perusal) to Seal it. Have not any News to Communicate. I have the Honour to be, with due respect, your most Obedt. servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). 1 See the preceding entry. John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee My De[ar sir,] Philadelphia July 9th 1782 The post did not Arrive here till late last night. Your Excellencys favor of the 5th I have just this Moment [received.] I must beg your Excellencys attention for Supp[ort], I [. . .] without cash and am
