July 12, 1782 633 2 Not found. 3 See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 5:369,502. Whipple was the receiver for Continen tal taxes in New Hampshire. Gilman’s father Nicholas was the Continental loan officer of the state. 4 See John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee, July 9, note. Arthur Lee to Congress To the Honble. the Congress of the United States, The Memorial of Arthur Lee w [July 12, 1782] 1 Your Memorialist desires to submit to the justice of Congress— that when his Salary, as one of the Ministers of these United States, reported by the Board of Treasury, was resolvd to be due to him, no order was made for the payment of it, as has been done in the case of every other Minister at foreign Courts, so that he coud obtain nei ther principal nor interest, but only common Certificates acknowl- eging the debt & promising payment. Your Memorialist begs leave to observe, that not only foreign Ministers have been paid, but even Agents & Factors, who had profits on large sums of public mony advanced to them, have been also paid considerable Sums out of the invoices borrowd in France. Your Memorialist presumes, that Congress will immediately per ceive, that his standing thus the sole object of neglect, not only deprives him of what has been ascertaind as due for his Services, but seems to be a mark of the displeasure of Congress, which he is far from conceiving he has deservd. He therefore submits to Congress, the justice of ordering the payment of his Salary, with that of his Secretary, directed to be carried to his credit by the Resolve of Augt. 4. 1781, 2 in the same manner as has been done, in the case of other foreign Ministers; that such payment shall cancel the Certificates he has receivd. Your Memorialist woud have made this representation sooner, but that the facts on which he ground it were not so fully known to him, & he was informd by the Treasurers, that there were no means in their power to pay him, or any other public Creditor. Arthur Lee MS (DNA: PCC, item 41). Endorsed: “Memorial of Arthur Lee, to be paid with interest the certificates given for the balance due on accot. of his salary. July 12 1782 Referred to Mr Witherspoon, Mr Lowell, Mr Middleton.” 1 This day Lee presented a memorial to Congress requesting an order for payment of his salary as a commissioner in Europe. SeeJCC, 22:386n.2. Congress had already acknowledged, the previous August, that £2,238 sterling remained due to him, and loan office certificates payable in one year had been issued. Lee's memorial was referred to a committee which submitted a report on July 18 that was read the following day. Congress accepted the committee’s recommendation that bills be
