634 July 12, 1782 drawn on Benjamin Franklin for the amount due “with Interest from the Time of settling his Accounts,” but added “that the Certificates given to Mr. Lee for that Ballance be Canceled.” See PCC, item 137, 2:5—6; and JCC, 22:337—38, where the report is erroneously entered under the date June 19. Although the resolution was “referred to the Superint. of finance to take order,” Robert Morris refused to act without another direct order of Congress, fearing perhaps in view of the controversy over the suspension of interest payments on loan office certificates that he would be accused of favoring a member of Congress over other certificate holders. It was not until November 14 that Morris sent a report to Congress seeking authorization to exchange Lee’s certificates for bills of exchange drawn on France, a request that Congress approved on November 18. See JCC, 23:727—28; PCC, item 137, 2:1—4; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:507n.2. See also Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, July 25, 1782. 2 Actually August 6, 1781, for which see JCC, 21:832-34. Georgia Delegates to John Martin 'Sir, Philadelphia July 13. 1782 We do ourselves the honor to reply to your Letter of the 14th March delivered us by the honorable Colo. Few, and beg leave to return our best thanks for the information therein contained. We had prior to the receipt of it, and after much patience and exertion obtained a supply of Arms, Ammunition, and some Clothing which was sent to the State by Genl. Twiggs & Colo McMur phy & are hopeful it has long since reached you in Safety. We can by no means flatter you with any additional supplies. By the Fininciers Letters you will be very competent to judge of the situation of our Finance, and at a time when pressing Applications are making to the respective States for money, it will be a difficult point to prevail on Congress to advance any part of it, on Loan or otherwise to any one of the States, Altho it is certain that motives of humanity and justice ought to prompt some additional Aids, Notwithstanding we are satisfied such cannot be obtained. It will not admit of a doubt but that our Country after all will do well, temporary distress, hardship & difficulty, time will Surmount. The virtue of 1775, with the exertions of subsequent years will guide us in safety and lead in the straight path to peace & Independence. In our Letter by Genl. Twiggs to the Assembly 1 we touched on the propriety of Continental aid, and are happy to understand that the Assembly are making exertions tending that way—and we are san guine in measures being pursued to Accomplish this very inter esting event. Even One hundred & fifty men will give relief to our Militia, and thereby enable them to remain at their homes (except on particular or pressing Occasions, by which means they will be fully enabled to provide for their Families & perhaps something to spare for the immediate support of the Soldiery. The only mode you can pursue to obtain any payment on Account
