July 13, 1782 635 of Any State supplies to the Army will be by and through the channel of Genl. Greene, who may for some Particular articles of supply, and from a full conviction of your wants indulge you. This ought to be done with great delicacy and only for Special and particular purposes the article of Salt is one, and some others will readily Occour. We think it best to give you our Opinion on some words in the Delegation that appear to have been Omitted, and may if not re vised by the Assembly previous to January be the means of the State being without a representation from the first Tuesday in January until the new Delegation may appear, which we conceive was not adverted to at the time of the Resolution. 2 The Delegation ought to run any two or more, and after the first Tuesday in January, until others shall be appointed. We only mention this alteration as neces sary to continue the representation in Congress, until the State can send a new Delegation and are hopeful the Assembly will enable you to make the necessary Amendments to it, without which We must on that day walk out, and quit our Seats in Congress, Until another Delegation shall arrive. You have no doubt heard of a total change of the British Ministry, and their intentions of changing the system of War in America. These are circumstances that we consider by no means favorable to conclude the War speedily with the States, and ought rather to alarm and call forth our utmost exertions, than to lull us into ideal security. It is evident the Pride & Ambition of that Nation, is not yet sufficiently humbled, to agree to our Independence & Alliance with France, nor have we any reason to believe but that Britain will exercise every means in her Power to effect her Nefarious purposes. We have the honor to be, sir, Your mo Obt. Servts. Edwd. Telfair NW Jones W Few. RC (GEU: Trust Company of Georgia Collection). Written by Telfair and signed by Telfair, Few, and Jones. 1 Not found. 2 The January 9 assembly resolution electing the Georgia delegation for 1782 was incorporated into the credentials signed by Governor Martin on February 10 and presented to Congress on May 1. See JCC, 22:220-21; and The Revolutionary Records of the State of Georgia, ed. Allen D. Candler, 3 vols. (Atlanta: Franklin-Turner Co., 1908), 3:58. This warning to the Georgia assembly proved to be prophetic, however, for the last of the present delegation left Philadelphia by early November 1782 and the state was not represented again until the summer of 1784 despite frequent entreaties from Congress, for which see JCC, 24:143, 25:836, 26:74-75. In the accounts he submitted to the Georgia treasurer in February 1783, Noble Wimberly Jones claimed 401 days attendance in Congress from September 27, 1781 to November 1, 1782. Noble Wimberly Jones Manuscripts, NcD.
