636 July 13, 1782 John Hanson to Philip Thomas Dear Doct. Philadelphia July 13th 1782 Mr Snutzell is just returned from a fruitless Expedition to New York. He lets me Know that he Shall Set off for Frederick in about half an hour—it is reported here that the Enemy have Evacuated and Burnt Charles Town. Snutzell says it was also so reported in New York. Should this be true it is a notable Specimen of their System of Carrying on a defensive War. I wish the account may be true it will at least give peace to that part of the Country. Your mother has lately had a pretty severe fit of the Cholick, but is now much better, little Kitty and my self are very well, that this may find you and the Children so is my hearty prayer. Have not received Mr W.P.s order for the £100. I wish I had it, farewell. Yrs. JH [P.S.] Compliments to Colo Price and his Lady and all friends in Frederick. RC (MdHi: Hanson Letters). Benjamin Huntington to Andrew Huntington Sir Philadelphia July 13th 1782 I Reed of Letter and Papers Inclosed 1 and laid the Same before a very Candid Committee who Reported that as the Account ap peared to be settled by Col Trumbull the same be laid on the Table, which indeed was the fate I expected it would meet with. 2 Congress in the year 1780 on a Long Debate Refused to Reconsider Accounts, once settled in Continental Money upon Principle that a Debt being once extinguished by Payment with Consent of the Party no further Demand in Law or Equity could Remain and furthermore that a Reconsideration of Matters of that Kind would be endless and Impossible. Another Difficulty in your Case is that Congress cannot settle with Individuals who Contracted with the Heads, or agents of the Several Departments. This would likewise be an Endless Business. It is a great Pity your Account is Closed in the manner it is. By the Resolves of Congress of the 26th of August 1780, 16th of March & 22d of May 1781 Rules are Given for Settling with the Creditors of the United States for Supplies furnished the army. 3 If Col Trumbull has it in his Power he will certainly make the Just Allowance. No public News of Importance but what appears in the Papers. Congress are informed that the Interest of Continental Loans can
