July 16, 1782 637 no longer be Paid in France. The Holders of Certificates in this City have met & Petitioned that another mode of Payment may be Pro vided and that the Interest of Monies Loaned since the first of March 1778 may be also Paid. The Matter is yet in Agitation. I am with Esteem your Friend and Most Huml Servt, Benj Huntington RC (MHi: Huntington-Wolcott Papers). 1 See Huntington to Huntington, June 17, 1782. 2 JCC, 22:370. Andrew had accepted a settlement of his accounts from Col. Jon athan Trumbull, Jr., he had explained in his May 30 letter to Benjamin, “& Reed the Ballance in old Continental money when it was a Penny the Dollar upon his Assur ance that Congress would do mejustice in the Affair.” See PCC, item 78, 11'464-70 12:217-19. 3 See JCC, 17:784-85, 19:266-67, 20:524-25. James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir, Private Philad, 16th July, 1782. I am much obliged to your Excellency for your favour of the 11th by Mr. LeRoy and particularly for the Attention you pay to what regards me personally. I shall suffer great Embarresments if no provisions shoud be made for my Reimbursement and I shoud be continud on the List of ordinary Creditors of the State. The Bills on France I shal retain til I have your further orders how to dispose of them; unless I shoud meet with an opportunity to negotiate them at the limited Exchange. I shall not neglect to apply for the naval Commissions & transmit them. Mr. LeRoy’s unexpected departure puts it out of my power to consign them to his Care. General Scott retains his Resolution to visit his Family and I shall be in pain to see the state so soon again unrepresented. I, therefore, hope one of my Colleagues will come forward without loss of time. I wrote largely to your Excellency by last post but the Letter was intercepted. 1 If Sir Guy does not publish it, he will have more politeness than his Predecessors. I am in no pain for the Contents. The most [ . . . ] 2 subject was the Light in which the Declarations of Several Legislatures on the Charge of the British ministry and their fixed purpose to adhere [ . . . ] to our federal Union and National Treaties, was considered here; and an enumeration of some of the good Consequences which may be expected from this seasonable and Judicial measures. They will undoubtedly occur to your Excel lency and need not be enlarged upon. A long letter to General Schuyler giving an Account of my wants and some strictures on
