July 17, 1782 647 David Ramsay to John Eliot Philada. July 17th 1782 Many thanks to you, my dear friend, 1 for your polite letter & for the orations, the first packet of which have come to hand. Warrens, Hancock’s & Austins seem to me to have a preference in the collec tion. 2 I wish that you would institute annual orations on the anniver sary of independence, or of the signing the alliance with France. On the 4th of July 1778 I attempted a little matter of this kind in Charlestown of which I have not a single copy or I would send it. 3 We hear that Charlestown is both evacuated & burnt. This will add the finishing stroke to the sufferings of our exiles, who con soled themselves with the idea of reposessing their habitations. 4 For my own part, I can as readily go down stairs as go up. In a short life I have known the conveniences and inconveniences of both poverty and riches, & find as to the real enjoyment of life there is very little difference. The man who lives according to nature can never be poor, he who lives according to fashion & opinion can never be rich. I wish to be one of the first class, & can therefore make myself happy in every state and condition. One thing is consolatory that though the burning of the town would accumulate distress on indi viduals, it would be a public advantage as the enemy would then be confined to the single spot of New-York. Partial evil-Universal Good alleviates the distresses of our suffering whigs. I do not mention it as certain, that this event has taken place. It comes by the way of New-York in a vessell of a short passage from Charlestown; but a number of concurring circumstances give probability to the report. If Charlestown is evacuated I think it probable, that the French army will move northwardly, [& p]erhaps a vigorous cooperation would make them evacuate New-York. This would well repay the continent for the loss of Charlestown. I am glad to hear that your ladies think you are so attached to Philada. as that they suppose you will soon repeat your visit to this city. I can assure you that there are many here of both sexes who would be glad to see you. For my own part, I shall ever rejoice in having formed so valuable a connexion, & shall be happy in your correspondence; but, much more so in your company. Perhaps the time may come, when we may meet in Philada., Boston or some future Charlestown. With the greatest respect, & regard, I am your friend & very humble servt, David Ramsay RC (MHi: Andrew-Eliot Papers). Addressed: “Revd. John Eliot, Boston. Free, David Ramsay.” 1 John Eliot (1754-1813) was pastor of the New North Church in Boston. Ramsay, Writings (Brunhouse), p. 70n. 2 Since 1771 the town of Boston had printed the orations delivered each year to
