648 July 17, 1782 commemorate the Boston Massacre. Of the twelve issued by 1782, Ramsay appeared to “have a preference” for the orations delivered by Joseph Warren (1772 and 1775), John Hancock (1774), and Jonathan Williams Austin (1778). The orations were published as a set by Peter Edes in 1785, for which see Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 18 997. s That is, Ramsay’s Oration on the Advantages of American Independence (Charleston: John Wells, Jr., 1778). Ibid., no. 16,026. . 4 Ramsay and his fellow South Carolina delegates took various steps at this time to settle personal accounts and to alleviate “the sufferings of our agent John Ross for $50 on July 20 for a “Mrs. Buchin (MS 3269, OCIWHi); for $500 on July 25 for Josiah Smith (Historical Magazine and Notes and Queries, 2d. ser., 4 (November 1868]: 254); for £45 on July 26 for “Wharfage and Pilotage” for three Hags bound from New York to Charleston (Signers of Declaration Collection, NNPM)- and for $500 on July 30 for Arthur Middleton (Emmet Collection, NN). James Duane to Philip Schuyler My dear Sir Philad. 18 July 1782 I wrote you a long Letter which was intercepted with the Post 1 and has contributed to the Amusement of Sir Guy Carleton; and if he follows the Example of his great Predecessors will in due time be served up to the Publick a la Rivington. Of this Epistle I kept no Copy but it contains some political Strictures on publick affairs and some Reflections on my own Circumstances. Unless it is a Reproach to become poor in a good Cause I shall have no Occasion to blush for a single Sentiment tho’ I have written it with unreserved Confi dence to a Friend for whom I with hold nothing. I expressed the feelings of my Heart on the very friendly and affectionate manner in which you advise me on the Subject of my own private Concerns; and I repeat it that this Instance of your Sensibility toward me has made the deepest Impressions and con- vincd me that I was not mistaken when I so freely opened my affairs to you and wished for your Council. I explaind I am giving an Account of the intercepted Letter—I explaind the Necessity—as I must change the Domestic Situation of my Family—of obtaining from the Legislature a Reimbursement of the Advances I procured for their Honour to pay my Expences on the Delegation; and how destructive it woud prove to every Exertion I can make for my Family if that money is withheld. On the late Statute of our State for giving Peace to the Citizens on the North East, I observed that I had long since formed a fixed Resolution to object to no measures which might be adopted for Restoring our internal Tranquility, even if by those measures my private property shoud be made a Sacrifice, adding this single Reflection “that my Passivity coud not alter the Dictates of Justice.” I lamented the Fate of the Land Office bill And pointed out the Weakness of that Policy which while it was operating to Cure the
