July 19, 1782 649 Evils of a Controverted Jurisdiction which had been so severely felt in one part of the State: did not extend itself to another part where similar mischiefs were daily to be apprehended. I took Notice of the good Effects which woud probably result from the Declarations of several of the Legislatures occasiond by the late Changes in the British Administration and their project of a defen sive war, and Scheme of Conciliation—And concluded that nothing coud lend more effectually to put an End to the Delusive Expecta tion that this Country woud prostitute its Honour & good Faith, than the Unsolicited and solemn Resolutions of the whole people by their immediate Representatives, that they will inviolably adhere to their federal union and national Treaties and employ their Strength & Resources to compel their Enemies to such a Peace as will estab lish our Independance and maintain our national Dignity. These Topics with the few Articles of our Southern Successes & Intelligence which have since run thro’ the News Papers, to the best of my Remembrance, filled up that hasty Letter which as I before hinted I had not leisure to correct or transcribe. We have no Accounts from Europe since and indeed some time before my Arrival here. Three Vessells arrivd last night from the Havannah notwithstanding this Coast is so strictly guarded. One of them has imparted a considerable Sum of money. I request the favour of your Agreeable Correspondence which tho I have not now time to enlarge, I will endeavour to merit: being with very great Regard & Esteem, Dear Sir, Your Affectionate & most Obed Servant Jas. Duane RC (NN: Schuyler Papers). 1 Not found; but see Duane to Clinton, July 16, 1782. Committee on the Department of Finance to Robert Morris Sir Philadelphia 19th July 1782. I am directed to enclose you a Copy of an Act of the United States of 2d Instant. 1 The Committee taking for a Basis the Act of the 7th of Feby. 1781, for establishing your office and ascertaining its Duties, have pro posed to themselves the following arrangement of the Heads of Enquiry. I 2 An Examination into the State of the publick Debts. II The publick Expenditures. HI The publick Revenue.
