650 July 19, 1782 IV The Plans for improving and regulating the Finances and for establishing order and (Economy in the Expendi ture of the publick money. V The Execution of the Plans adopted by Congress respect ing Revenue & Expenditure. VI The Settlement of the Publick Accounts. VII The Issues of the specific Supplies furnished by the re spective States. VIII The Recovery of the monies due to the united States. IX The Prosecution for Delinquencies respecting the publick Revenue & Expenditures. Lastly. They have collected the several Acts of Congress for your Direction subsequent to your Appointment which will also form a part of the Enquiry. . We propose unless it may be inconvenient to you to begin this enquiry on Monday morning at 9 o’Clock at the Office of Finance And to continue it as Circumstanc[e] will admit. 3 I am, Sir, your most Obedient Servant, Jas. Duane for The Committee RC (DNA: PCC, item 142). Written and signed by James Duane. > By terms of this “Act,” James Duane, Abraham Clark, Arthur Lee, Thomas McKean, and Samuel Osgood “were appointed to enquire fully into the proceedings of the department of Finance,” implementing a motion offered by James Madison and adopted by Congress on June 17 calling for the biannual investigation of the executive departments—finance, foreign affairs, war, marine, and the post office. See ICC, 22:334, 370; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 5:385-89. For speculation that Madison may have introduced his motion “with the confident expectation that a close scrutiny of the Department of Finance would silence Morris’ enemies [especially Arthur Lee},’’ see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:250n.l7, 343-44, 386. 2 At this point in the margin, in a hand other than Duane’s, appears the word “Satisfactory.” The word “none," written in the same hand, also appears in the margin below opposite the numeral HI. . 3 In response to this proposal, Morris suggested that their first meeting be pos - poned to Tuesday July 30, for which see Morris, Papers (Ferguson) 6:3, 87; and Minutes of the Committee on the Department of Finance, July 30, 1782. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene gj r Philadelphia July 19th. 1782 We have been honored with your Excellencys letter of the Ulto. and the inclosed resolutions of the Honle. the general Assembly. 1 . . , You may be assured that proper attention will always be paid on our part to any Instruction which that honorable body may think proper to honor us with, and particularly to those now received. We have a proper sense of the principels and justice on which they are
