July 22, 1782 655 therefore it will, as it was expressed by an honourable gentleman the other day, give the last stab to public credit. It will be in vain, in future, to ask the public to believe any promise we shall make, even when the most clear and explicit grounds of confidence are pro duced. Perhaps it will be said that public credit is already gone; and it hath been said that there is no more in this, than in neglecting to pay the interest of the loan-office certificates of later date; but though there were no other differences between them, this being another and fresher instance of the same, will have an additional evil influence upon public credit. But in fact, there is something more in it than in the other. The solemn stipulation of Congress, specifying the manner in which the interest was to be paid, was considered as an additional security, and gave a value to these certificates, which the others never had. 2 I beg that no gentleman may think that I hold it a light matter to withhold the interest from the other lenders; they will be convinced, I hope, of the contrary before I have done; but I have made the comparison merely to shew what will be the influ ence of this measure upon the public mind, and therefore upon the credit and estimation of Congress. Now it is plain, that the particu lar promise of giving bills upon Europe, as it had an effect, and was intended to have it in procuring credit, it must, when broken or withdrawn, operate in the most powerful manner to our prejudice. I will give an example of this, in our melancholy past experience. The old continental money was disgraced and sunk, first by the act of March 18th, 1780, (which the Duke de Vergennes justly called an act of bankruptcy,) telling you would pay no more of your debt than sixpence in the pound. This was afterwards further improved by new estimates of depreciation, of seventy-five and one hundred and fifty, for new state paper, which itself was sunk to two or three for one, and yet bad as these men’s cases were, the disgrace arising from them was more than doubled, by people’s referring to, and repeat ing a public declaration of Congress, in which we complained of the injurious slanders of those that said we would suffer the money to sink in the hands of the holders, and making the most solemn protestations, that ultimately the money should be redeemed dollar for dollar; and to my knowledge, some trusting to that very declara tion, sold their estates at what they thought a high price, and brought themselves to utter ruin. I cannot help requesting Congress to attend to the state of those persons who held the loan-office certificates which drew interest on France; they are all, without exception, the firmest and safest friends to the cause of America; they were in general the most firm, and active, and generous friends. Many of them advanced large sums of hard money, to assist you in carrying on the war in Canada. None of them at all put away even the loan-office certificates on speculation, but either from a generous intention of serving the
