July 23, 1782 663 tion of France}. The {notes of M s 3 are also} to be {attacked}, hese and some other {symptoms} strongly {portend a revival} of them} heatS ’ 1 earnest, y wish we had {your aid} in {repressing General Washington is still here. I have nothing to add to my last on the subject of Lippencut & AsgiL It is said that a fleet of trans ports is just arrived at the Hook, & that it has troops on Board This revived the idea that an evacuation of Charleston has taken place I hope you will not neglect the request in my last touching pecuniary matters. My wants begin again to be very pressing & I hear nothing -m-ttances I hope your silence by yesterday’s mail has not been the effect of in[disposition?] RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:434-35. Written by Madison, though not signed. ' ' Words in braces in this text were written by Madison in cipher 1 ^ | t P w POSi “ O "” that Ar J hur Lee made in Con gress the following day, see Lee to James Warren, August? 1782, note 1. S ’ 3 That is, Benjamin Franklin and John Jay. 4 John Adams and Henry Laurens. 5 Robert Morris. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison S1 Tt . „ . Philadelphia, July 23d. 1782 The Letter of the 11th, 1 with which your Excellency honord us came safe with the enclosd Resolves, which we shall lay before Congress. 2 ’ The Super-intendant’s Contract, for the main Army, is ten pence pensylvama curry, per Ration, which is 25 perCt. less than whai your Excellency mentions. 1 We shall make the application, you recommend, to Congress. 3 No Instructions have yet reachd us on the important points, which were stated to the Assembly for that purpose. 4 The enclosd Paper contains all the late Advices from Europe Congress not having receivd any Dispatches. But we have no doubt general ndePendenCe haV ' nS been acknow ledgd by the States- We have the honor to be, with the most perfect respect, Your Excellency s most Obedt. Servants J, Madison Jr. A. Lee Madiln. 00 " 6 " 0 " 131 C ° ngreSS Pa P ersk Written b y Lee and signed by Lee and 1 See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:405-6. 2 The enclosd Resolves,” adopted by the Virginia House of Delegates on May 28 in
