664 July 23, 1782 response to Congress’ February 20 and 27 resolutions establishing new procedures for settling state accounts, were laid before Congress on July 24. The assembly disagreed with Congress’ alteration of the “Mode appointed by the Confederation” for fixing state quotas and proposed instead that the states’ ability to pay be assessed by persons appointed to examine “the Losses and Injuries sustained . . . from ob structed Commerce and the Enemies Cruisers within the Bay of Chesapeake and its depending Rivers.” See JCC, 22:413; and PCC, item 75, fols. 361-66. See also Virginia Delegates to Harrison, February 25, 1782, note 2. 3 Harrison’s July 11 letter instructing the delegates to secure proper credit for Virginia’s maintenance of the York and Gloucester garrisons was referred on July 24 to a committee chaired by Ezekiel Cornell which recommended on August 27 that both garrisons be discontinued. See JCC, 22:415n.2, 23:531; Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:430n.3; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:16n.2, 236n.l0, 237-38, 287. 4 For the delegates’ request for further “Instructions” on Virginia’s cession of western lands, see Virginia Delegates to Harrison, May 14, 1782, note 5. Theodorick Bland to St. George Tucker Dr. Sr. No. 8 Philadelphia July 24th 1782. Yesterdays post honord me with your favor of the 10th Inst, after a long interval of Silence on your part, and altho this is the Sixth letter I have written this morning 1 I was resolved not to let the post return without an acknowledgment of the Rect. of it. I am extremely sorry to find that you are no longer in the Executive, and without flattery think on this occasion the assembly have not given a striking instance of penetration. 2 You will however have the consolation to have discharged with fidelity and ability an arduous Task, and of having leisure to attend to your domestic concerns, and in Lieu of Power to acquire Riches and indulge the Dulce otium. We have had a Splendid Entertainment on acct, of the Birth of the Dauphin given by the Minr. of France at which was present about seven Hundred of the Genteelest Gentn & Ladies that could be found, in this City & its Environs, a Magnificent building was erected on the occasion beau tifully adornd with emblematic paintings, alluding to the occasion— grand illuminations were displayd, and fireworks playd off. A Supper was provided for the whole company to Sup at once under a Beautiful Pavillion erected adjacent to the aforementioned Ball Room—which Ball room is upwards of Seventy feet long and sup ported by two ranges of beautiful Ionic Columns. The Gardens adjacent to the ministers Hotel were laid off in as good a taste as the extent of the ground wd. admit—universal Satisfaction, and good order prevaild among the Company within as well as the Spectators without. Last Saturday by two ships from France which brought Public Prints we were informd with Certainty (tho not officially) of Mr. Adams’s having been received in form in his Character of Minn Plenipo of the U States of America at the court of Holland, and that
