July 24, 1782 665 the States Genl, their High Mightinesses had formally acknowl edged the Independence of the thirteen U. States—on the 19th of April—this will form an important Era in the History of our Vir tuous Struggle—and will throw the Portals of Commerce open so as to enhance the Value of our Staple as well as of all kinds of American produce. I congratulate you and my countrymen on this happy occasion. There is reason to think that a treaty of Amity and Com merce is signed between the two republics before this day—and it is not unlikely that a Dutch Ambassador will soon repair to this court. I am Pleased to hear that Fanny and the Children are well—But pray ask her if she does not think it worth her while to acknowledge under her own fair hand that she has a Brother. I have written to my Father by this Post, and requested Mr. Miner of Petersburgh to forward my letter. I am astonishd to find by yours that he has received none of my former letters to him—having written several 1 fear you r prediction relative to him is too well founded and shall be very anxious to hear by every opportunity how he is, which as you must have frequent opportunities of knowing hope you will not fail to inform me of. I hope in two months time to be able to find Leisure to pay you a short Visit. I shd. be Glad to know what steps have been taken with respect to the Estates Tobo. & to have some short acct, of the Situation of such of my affairs as may have fallen within yr. Notice. From yr. Surprize at Mrs. Blands a[dven]ture and her acct since she arrived of your never having been to see [her] I have much reason to conjecture that the Intercourse between Matoax and Causons was not after my departure of that true Frater nal kind which I have ever wishd shd exist between two Families so nearly connected. I know her too well to even conjecture ’twas her fault. Be it as it will. God Bless you all, Adieu R C (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). In Bland’s hand, though not signed 1 No other letters of this date have been found. / r he V T S J nla H° use of Delegates had elected James Monroe to replace Tucker on the Council. See the Journals of the Council of the State of Virginia, ed. H. R. Mcllwaine 3 vols. (Richmond: Virginia State Library, 1931-52), 3:97, 104. James Duane to Mary Duane My dearest Polly Philadelphia 24 July 1782 I congratulate you on the Prospect of Support in our Cause from the Dutch as they have actually acknowledged our Independence It is an Event which will produce great and extensive Consequences Our Prospects brighten daily and tho’ the misfortune of the French fleet in the West Indies is severely felt, the British Nation must be
