July 24, 1782 667 Mr. Bland informed the house that he had always been against the instructions so far as they obliged the ministers ultimately to govern themselves by the advice of France, and therefore he seconded the motion for reconsideration. An objection was made to his seconding the reconsideration as he had acknowledged he had voted agst the instructions. The objection was deemed valid, whereupon after sometime Mr. Jackson gave it his second. The motion being thus introduced was read and a debate thereon ensued. Mr. Lowell said he would have seconded the motion, but that he intended to have brought on the Consideration of the subject in another way, that he thought the instructions were not valid as they had not at the time of passing had the vote of nine states which by the Confederation were necessary to give them validity. This occa sioned a call for the minutes of the proceedings which were read. Mr. Bland supported the propriety of a reconsideration. Mr. Madison objected to it. He took notice that the motion before the house went much farther than the reasoning in support of a reconsideration. That the reasoning was confined entirely to the impropriety, inexpediency and dangerous consequences of one sin gle clause in the instructions; that the motion was pointed against the ministers as well as against the instructions; that nothing was said to show that the appointment was improper and that therefore he could not agree to the motion. But waiving this he should object to the motion if confined to the instructions; as to the objection started on account of an amendment to the original instructions which was carried by seven states, he apprehended the articles of confederation did not require the vote of nine states for the purpose of making peace; but even admitting it did and that there was an error or defect in the instructions by reason of the amendment, admitted by seven votes on the 11th June 1781, yet the passing them afterwards on the 15 of the same month which appears to have been done without dissent, and the confirmation of them by the act of the 31st of May last removed every defect or error which the admission of the amendment might have occasioned. That before gentlemen condemned the instructions they ought to consider the times & circumstances in which they were passed. Here he went into a detail of the critical situation of affairs in America in June 1781, the interposition of mediating powers, the rejection of the motion for joining other persons in the Commission with J. Adams, the unfor tunate difference between him & the Co[un]t de Vergennes & the information given that the court of F. had not a full confidence in Mr Adams prudence & management. Upon the whole he did not
