670 July 25, 1782 tions of the states. The states had not yet all complied with the requisition of Febry 1781 for granting an impost of five per cent on imports and prizes which was to be appropriated to the payment of interest and discharging the debt contracted during the war. The quotas of 8 millions of Dollars required for the present year were like to come in very slow. The first quarter day had passed without any money being paid. The treasury was exhausted, large anticipa tions had been made. And the superintendant had informed Con gress that he could not with safety proceed farther and that some of the great war departments were at a stand for want of money. Letters and representations to the states had not had the desired effect. To give a full display of the situation of affairs in writing would be dangerous as it would expose it to the knowledge of the enemy. Congress therefore on the 27th May thought it proper to send two of their members to the states eastward and two to the southward to give them a confidential and full view of affairs and to stimulate them to a speedy compliance with the requisitions of Congress, particularly those relative to the impost and the quotas for 1782 2 some time after, viz June 1 a Comtt 3 consisting of Mr Osgood, Mr Izard & Mr Witherspoon reported a resolution for putting a stop to the drawing of any more bills. This was referred to the superintendant who reported a resolution to the same effect. And this together with the former report was referred to Mr Rutledge, Mr Lee, and Mr Clark, and their report concurred with the former that a stop should be put to the drawing of any more bills for the payment of interest. The subject was taken up and debated in Congress. The holders of Certificates who had heretofore been paid their interest in bills of exchange now took the alarm and remonstrated against this step. On the 12 July while this matter was under deliberation Mr Lee presented a memorial to Congress stat ing that on the settlement of his accounts in August 1781, as there was then no money in the treasury he had taken a Certificate for the balance payable with interest at a future day, and that as all the other ministers whose accounts were settled had been paid in bills of exchange praying that he might be put upon the same footing with them and the Certificate given him taken up and cancelled. This was referred to Mr Witherspoon, Mr Lowell and Mr Middleton, and notwithstanding the information given by the Superintendant that there were no funds on which bills could be drawn, notwithstanding a report of a Come in consequence of that information was then before Congress and under deliberation for putting a stop to the drawing any more bills, & notwithstanding the clamours of the holders of certificates which would naturally be increased when they found their interest stopped under pretence that Congress had no funds in Europe on which they could draw bills and at the same time drawing in favour of one of their members for a sum equal to one
