672 July 27, 1782 North Carolina Delegates to Jethro Sumner Dr. Sr. Philada. 27th July 1782 Within a few days of our arrival here 1 we applyd to the Secretary at War, requesting that Commissions might issue to the North Caro lina Officers in the continental Line according to the Arrangemt. that was laid before the Genl Assembly at their last Meeting & by them approved. 2 We find to our Surprise that no authentic Ratifica tion has yet been forwarded to the War office & were sorry to find that an objection has been handed to the War Office against issuing Commissions according to the Arrangement referd to. We inclose you a Copy of the Secretary’s Letter to us as well as of Coll. Stewarts Letter to the Secretary at War that you may take the necessary Steps thereon. We have only further to assure you that it will give us much Pleasure on every possible Occasion to render any effectual Service to you or to the Officers in the continental Line and to request that you will be assured that we are with the utmost Esteem Dr Sr Your most obedient & very humble Servts. Hu Williamson Wm. Blount RC (NcU: Jethro Sumner Papers). Written by Williamson and signed by Williamson and Blount. 1 Hugh Williamson had presented his credentials on July 19 and William Blount had taken his seat on the 22nd, thus giving North Carolina a vote in Congress for the first time in more than a year. See JCC, 22:401, 404. For the lack of continuity in the North Carolina delegation, see Benjamin Hawkins to Abner Nash, December 5, 1781, note 2. 2 For the arrangement of the North Carolina Line approved by the assembly on April 29, 1782, in accordance with congressional resolves of October 3 and 21, 1780, requiring its reorganization into four regiments, see N. C. Stale Records, 16:61, 71-74, 77; and JCC, 18:893-96, 959-61. Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton Dear Sir Philada. July 29. 1782 I dare say you attribute to neglect my long silence on the Subject of my last letter. 1 The truth is, I have not been able to say any thing of importance on the Subject. Upon Genl. Lincolns return from head quarters, he made a report for appointing three Brigadiers, one for Massachusets Line, one for Connecticut & one for Jersey— with this report he laid before Congress a Letter from the Com mander in Chief to the secretary at War, in which he states the situation of the three lines, & Urges the Necessity of Appointing Brigades for the two former, but Signifies that the reasons in favour of a Brigadr. for Jersey are not equally strong with the former owing
