July 30, 1782 677 Theodorick Bland to St. George Tucker Dr. Sr. (No. 9) Philadelphia July 30th 1782 I acknowledge the Rect. of No. 6. The french fleet consisting of thirteen ships of the line, three frigates & a Bomb Ketch with 4000 Land forces are certainly on our coast steering for N.Y. where tis supposed they are arrived. 1 Some eastern Privateers have taken Six of the Br. Quebeck fleet inward bound one of them worth £20,000 Stg. Holland has on the 19th of April last declared our Independance and admitted Mr. Adams Mr. Plen. from U.S. to the Sftates] G[eneral]. It is pretty confidently expected (but wants confirmation) that a fleet of Dutch Men of War which saild from Europe in April or May have fallen in with & taken four British Ships of the line which they have carried into Curacoa with about 20 or 30 transports. Count de Grasse has arrived in Paris where he has ‘tis said im peached 15 of his Capts. I have no time to enlarge so have given you the news Seriatim. God Bless you—you will draw your own conclu sions from it. Adieu RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). In Bland’s hand, though not signed. 1 John Hanson also made the following observations on the arrival of the French fleet in a brief personal letter to Philip Thomas this day. “I Congratulate you on the Arrival of a French fleet off Cape Henry. Their designs will be Known by their future opperations. It is Conjectured by Some that they mean to Scour the Coast and make what Captures they can. But I hope our good Ally by Sending them here has Something further and of more importance in View—be the object what it may while they are on the Coast they will afford protection to our trade which is to us of the last importance.” Hanson Letters, MdHi. Minutes of the Committee on the Department of Finance Minutes of Committee on Department of Finance. Finance Office 30th July 1782. Present Mr Duane, Mr Osgood, Mr Clarke, Mr Lee. 1 Agreed to meet for the dispatch of this Commission Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, at 9 oClock A.M. Enterd on the first Object of the Enquiry—vizt. I. The Publick Debts. a. Examind Account of Debts due on Loan office Certificates 2 and debts due on Subsequent Certificates called Funded Debts, 3 vide Accounts.
