678 July 30, 1782 b. The Mode of settling those Accounts & giving the Certificates explaind. c. Clause of a Report read intended to be presented by the Financier to Congress respecting European debts &c. This Report will be accompanied by the Account A. 4 d. The Financier observes that the Accounts with the several States and Departments in the staff are not yet enterd upon from the difficulty of getting Commsrs. Commissrs. only appointed for Connecticut, New Jersey, Virginia, Maryland. 5 Adjournd to Thursday Morning 9 oClock MS (DNA: PCC, item 142). In the hand of James Duane. 1 That is, James Duane, Samuel Osgood, Abraham Clark, and Arthur Lee; Thomas McKean was absent. For the appointment of this committee, see committee on the Department of Finance to Robert Morris, July 19, 1782. Superintendent Robert Morris, the other person in attendance, entered the following remarks con cerning this meeting in his official diary this day. “The Hon. James Duane, Arthur Lee, Mr. Osgood and Clarke a Committee of Congress appointed for the purpose of examining into the Execution and Management of the Duties of the Superintendant and Subordinate Branches of the Office of Finance came by appointment to Com mence their Enquiries, and first they examined into the State of the public Debt of which I gave them every information in my power. They then adjourned until Thursday next when they are to meet again and proceed in their enquiries.” Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:87. 2 For this category of the public debt, see Morris’June 13 report to Congress on the Continental loan offices, ibid., 5:396-99. 3 See ibid., 6:74—75, 105-6. 4 Not found. 5 “Maryland” added in an unidentified hand. David Howell to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia 30 July 1782. It being impracticable for a new member of Congress soon to comprehend our great national concernments & the views & pur poses of Principal men in the various Departments and especially the complicated System of European Policy you will not expect such proffitable communications from me at present as are to be ex pected from my Colleague, who has every advantage to be derived from experience in military & political life. I shall, however, neglect no opportunity of transmitting every intelligence from time to time which may be in my power & affect the Interests of my constituents. Eleven States have transmitted copies of their acts vesting Con gress with a power to levy and collect a duty of 5 per Cent, on Imports & Prize goods; all of which acts are passed on the express condition that the measure shall be universally adopted throughout the United States and some of them have other conditions annexed;
