July 30, 1782 679 Such as the following. That after a term of years it shall be in the power of the State to substitute some other revenue equally produc tive and which shall be approved of by Congress. That no part of the revenue shall ever be appropriated to the discharge of half-pay, pensions, &c. That the State retain a right of appointing, or sus pending the Train of revenue officers, within its jurisdiction, &c. &c. Whereon I shall only observe that a reluctance against the measure appears from the mode of compliance therewith in some instances. A Committee was lately appointed in Congress to enquire into the reasons why the other States had not complied with this recommen dation before whom, on notice & request, the Delegates for the States of Georgia & R. I. & P. Ps. 1 appeared to give Information. 2 Having discovered on my arrival in this City that all the members of Congress, as well as the Inhabitants, were universally in favour of the Impost, and concluding that my single voice would be unavail ing against the general current: I cautiously avoided entring unnec essarily into the discussion of the Subject, but being called on this occasion to assign the reasons which induced a delay on the part of my Constituents, a fair opportunity opened, I embraced it with pleasure, to lay before the Committee the following representations. That the maritime Situation of our State peculiarly exposeth us to the attacks of an enemy in a time of War. By a coup de main an enemy may lay waste our Sea-port towns all around the Naragansett-bay, destroy our Navigation and plunder the whole treasure of our little State; in which sad Catastrophe the value of the State would be reduced to that of a County in the neighbouring States: and yet we should have no claim in virtue of any compact, or Stipulation, on the federal Union for a reimbursement. That in fact this had partially taken place; our State had been invaded & plundered, our Towns partly burnt, & partly torn down, & our Navigation reduced to a very low ebb—So that out of the ancient & once wealthy Town of New-Port, which in the year 1774 sent to Sea nearly 150 Sail, three only were at Sea in March 1782: Wherefore, if any substantial revenue could be derived from a duty on trade, this benefit ought, in all right & justice, to belong solely & exclusively to the State in Compensation for losses already sustained, and as a Security against still more fatal evils to be apprehended in all future Wars. That this was the voice of nature, the voice of reason & the voice of Confedera tion, the Constitution of the Ud. Ss. which had in this particular, secured to us our Birthright, Viz, the whole, entire emolu ments of our own Trade. It was moreover represented—That, in fact, the measure in its present form tended to raise a revenue within our State & from the earnings of its Inhabitants to be carried to the general credit of the Ud. Ss.: Inasmuchas, not only in the first instance, would the Merchant be compelled to pay the duty at all
