July 30, 1782 681 abetting others in the practice: Therefore it was not probable that the measure proposed was practicable, at least so as to afford any considerable net produce, after deducting the vast expences of the numerous officers necessary in the collecting & after management thereof. That the term of its duration was exceptionable and precluded the State from the possibility of revoking their grant in any future Period, should experience prove it ever so unproffitable & ruinous. That Congress were not to be accountable for the amount or expenditure of this revenue; but on the contrary it was to be abso lutely at their disposal, during a term of time which would be wholly in their power. That perhaps it might really be the Intrest of the Ud. Ss. never to discharge all the debts contracted, and to be contracted during this War, and if so the duty, by the terms of the grant, was to remain to perpetuity. That however safely this extraordinary, uncontroulable & unac countable power might be granted to the present Congress, a change of times & of men—might bring forth abuses at present unthought of, and cause us to rue the fatal day when we so rashly devested ourselves & that irrevocably, of a power naturally inherent in the several States & guaranteed & secured to us in Confederation. It was further represented—That the measure proposed in addi tion to all the evils aforsd. had an unpromissing aspect upon the morals of the Community at large, by multiplying oaths, by increas ing temptations to perjury both in officers of the customs & in citizens, & by nourishing in idleness & Luxury a numerous train of Collectors, Comptrollers, Searchers, tide-waiters, Clerks, &c. &c. whereby the country would loose the benefit of their industry & incur the additional charge of their support & that not to create a revenue but only in order to throw taxation out of its present channel & to bring the weight thereof upon particular setts, or descriptions of men in the community to their great & lasting injury. That it did not appear as yet in what manner Congress would enforce the Law proposed, whether prosecutions were to be com menced or penalties were to be recoverable in the common Courts of justice, or whether the Maritime Courts were to be impowered to have cognizance hereof & that the general plan for the execution of the Law might affect the propriety of making the grant in question. That I had lately received pointed instructions to make urgent application to Congress in behalf of my Constituents for a participa tion in the vacant, or backlands, to which they claimed, for reasons the most substantive, a good right in common with their Sister States. That Congress had hitherto delayed to come to an ultimate decision hereon—And as some States pertinaciously persisted in claiming exclusive rights to sd lands: it was not to be expected that
