682 July 30, 1782 our State would part with all the benefits of its maritime Situation untill some assurance could be obtained of a Participation in com mon with other States in the back lands, which ought to be consid ered as a continental acquisition & to be appropriated accordingly— but this was thrown out as a reason of the delay in question only conjecturally, not being so assigned in the instructions referred to. After proposing the following alterations, Viz, 1st. That each State retain the power of chusing the officers of the revenue to be collected within its own jurisdiction. 2. That the revenue arising from this duty be carried to the credit of each State, wherein it shall be collected respectively, and de ducted from their annual Quotas of continental requisitions. I with drew, not a little mortified at having been opposed rather than seconded by my Colleague. It ought also to be noted that on this occasion, the extraordinary exertions of our State during the whole contest, and on the opening of the present campaign in special were mentioned & not contested & added much weight to the aforegoing representations in behalf of the State; And that the Committee have not yet made their report, which no doubt will produce a renewed application to the State: For, the same reasons, which make it against our intrest, to make this grant, make it the intrest of the whole Union to solicit it, which you may expect will be done with the most unremitting importunity. After the part I have taken in this matter, which has been done with views the most disinterested, so far as I am personally concerned, my Constituents will not expect any direct advice on the Subject; and knowing they possess integrity & abilities sufficient for the places they respectively fill, in all events, I shall always endeavour to reconcile myself to their determinations & govern myself by their instructions, however contrary to my private opinion. A grand Committee for the support of public credit has lately been appointed in Congress, and I shall endeavour as one of that Committee to bring on a decision respecting the back-lands. 3 They would undoubtedly be a means in our hands of reviving public credit; they are of vast extent & value, beyond what is generally known or conjectured. A gentleman of no mean Talents in Finance thinks well of this plan, & that, in a course of time, they would enable us to discharge a great part of our national debt. So much in answer to the Instruction on that head referred to in your Excel- lencys Letter of 17 June last. The Commissioners appointed by the resolve of the 20 of February last are to liquidate and put on the list of the funded debt, which is to draw Intrest, all the Certificates issued on account of the Continent in the Several States. And it is proposed that in the Settlement to be made by the sd Commis sioners the States have credit for their taxes of old money actually collected & paid in, & be charged with their deficiencies—but this
