690 July 30, 1782 the Post-master-general, into the miscarriage of our Letter of the 9th ult. of which we now send a Copy. 2 We shall make all possible enquiry concerning Mr. J. Todd & his proceedings here. 3 That part of your Excellency’s Letter of the 11th relating to the expence of garrisoning York & Glocester, was laid before Congress, & referrd to a Committee, which has not yet reported upon it. 4 We shoud be happy to hear, from time to time, of the success of the recruiting plan. It is so confidently reported here, that a fleet of 13 Sail of french Ships of war, with 4000 land Forces & a numerous Convoy, are arrivd in the Chesapeake; that we cannot help congratulating your Excellency on an event, which promises so much to our State & to the Union. With sentiments of the profoundest respect, We have the honor to be Yr. Excellency’s most Obedt. & most Humbe. Servants. Theok. Bland Jr. J. Madison Jr. A. Lee RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Bland and signed by Bland, Lee, and Madison. 1 See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:427. 2 For the RC, see Virginia Delegates to Harrison, July 9, 1782. The “Copy,” in the hand of Arthur Lee, is in the Continental Congress Papers, Vi. 3 For the activities of Col. John Todd, Jr., and his reported “proceedings" in Philadelphia during the winter of 1780-81, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 427n.3. 4 See Virginia Delegates to Harrison, July 23, 1782, note 3. Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Sir Philada. July 31st. 1782. I need not mention to your Excellency, the length of time I have been absent from my family, ne[i]ther do I conceive it necessary to use any argument, to urge the Honle. the genl. Assembly, to give direction that I be speedily releived, the frequent indulgences that I have received from them, make it unnecessary. I therefore in full confidence, that, that Honle. body, will chearfully give me the indul gence asked for, by ordering me releived as soon as justice and policy will permit, patiently wait your Answer. 1 I have the honor to be your Excellencys most obedt Hume Servant, Ezek Cornell
