July 31, 1782 691 RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 Cornell, who had been in Philadelphia since June, 1780, serving alternately as a delegate to Congress and a member of the Board of War, remained in Philadelphia until about September 20. He had been asked by the superintendent of finance on May 10 to serve as inspector of contracts for the Continental Army, but after first signifying his acceptance had declined the post upon learning that he had been reelected a delegate to Congress by the Rhode Island Assembly on May 1. He reconsidered the offer early in September, however, and was commissioned inspector of contracts for the main army on September 19. He probably left Philadelphia the following day; his last recorded vote in Congress was cast on September 18. He was succeeded as a delegate by Jonathan Arnold, who took his seat in Congress on October 10. To Morris’ chagrin, the Rhode Island Assembly subsequently censured Cornell for accepting Continental office while still a member of Congress. See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 5:27, 6:161, 226, 368, 371, 380, 396, 400-401, 408-9 573n.l9, 7:126-127; and JCC, 23:590, 642. David Howell to Robert Morris [July 31—August 2? 1782] 1 Some objections against passing an Impost Law, in the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, briefly stated at the re quest of the Superintendent of Finance, by his humble servant, D. Howell. It is assumed that the usual mode of taxation draweth supplies from the people, proportionate to what they possess, and have defended by the public, and is therefore founded on the most obvious principles of justice. But the measure proposed would ei ther draw a disproportionate supply from the merchant, as such, or from the consumers in general; if from the merchant, according to what he imports; if from the consumer, according to what he con sumes. In either case, it would bear hard on the citizens of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, who both import and consume of important articles, a greater proportion than any other state. As the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations is subjected from its maritime situations to greater losses and risks in war, with out any claim of reimbursement, therefore, in virtue of any compact or stipulation on the Federal Union; if any revenue can be raised from trade in the way proposed, or any other, the State is entitled to the exclusive benefit thereof, and that the amount annually passed to their credit, and be collected by officers of their own appoint ment, in common justice recognized in confederation. Should a duty be laid on imported goods the prices of such country produce as may be substituted in their room will be raised, (should said duty be superadded to the former prices of imported goods,) and pre serve nearly their usual proportion thereto. These being drawn
