692 July 31, 1782 from neighboring states, will eventually come charged with a similar duty, and thus the neighboring states in particular, and the Union at large, will draw a substantial revenue out of the earnings and indus try of the citizens of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. Duties imposed directly on country produce, or inland embargoes by neighboring states, may in future put the inhabitants of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations on the necessity of subsisting themselves more, if not altogether, on imported goods, and increase the burdensome operations of the impost proposed. But while trade remains free to all the world and unfettered with duties, the State, though small, still remains independent. So far from creating ways and means, or lightening our taxes, the measure proposed would incur the enormous additional charge of taking off from arts and industry a numerous train of men for the collection and after management of this revenue; and supporting them in comparative idleness only to shift the mode of raising supplies, and to throwing taxation into another channel to the last ing injury of certain descriptions of citizens. After all this additional charge incurred, the revenue proposed would not be productive. It would be the interest of the merchant to avoid paying it, and the interest of the State to countenance him. Profanations of oaths and corruption in various forms would follow. No definite plan for the execution of the impost law has yet been promulgated. Whether penalties are to be recoverable or prosecu tions commenced in the common or maritime courts, is not de clared; and the operation of the law may be rendered more griev- ious by the mode of enforcing it. 2 The State wishes to preserve inviolate, Article 8th of the Confederation; and whenever their quota of continental requisitions shall be made agreeably thereto, to be permitted to raise it in their own way. 3 N.B. The State is largely interested in Loan Office Certificates, and desirous of discharging interest and principal with honor. MS not found; reprinted from Staples, Rhode Island, pp. 391-92. 1 Although undated, this document was clearly written between July 31, when Howell stated in a letter to William Greene that he had just received Robert Morris’ request for a written explanation of Rhode Island’s opposition to the impost, and August 2, when Morris inclosed Howell’s statement in a letter to Greene. See Howell to William Greene, July 30-31, 1782; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:115, 123-26. 2 For the enforcement provisions of the draft impost ordinance then under consid eration, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:683-84, 688—91. 3 Article 8 specified that state quotas would be set “in proportion to the value of all land within each state, granted to or surveyed for any Person, as such land and the buildings and improvements thereon shall be estimated,” and that “the taxes for paying that proportion shall be laid and levied by the authority and direction of the legislatures of the several states.” JCC, 19:217.
