July 31, 1782 693 Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates 1782, July 31. A motion was made by Mr Root, seconded by Mr Condict, 1 Whereas, Congress, by their resolution of 21 Oct. 1780, did in consideration of the merit and sufferings of the officers of the army grant to those who should continue in service to the end of the war or be deranged, in pursuance of the acts of 3 & 21 Oct, 1780, half pay for life; And Whereas, Application is made by some of those officers for an adjustment of their half pay and Congress having no funds pro vided for discharging the same, resolved, that it be recommended to the several states to carry into effect the resolution of Congress of 21 Oct. 1780, granting half pay for life in regard to the officers in the lines of their respective states, and every state which shall settle with the officers belonging to their respective lines in regard to their half pay aforesaid and cause the United States to be exonerated there from shall be discharged from contributing any thing towards the half pay of officers in the line of any other state. Mr Dyer opened the debate by observing that the resolution to grant half pay for life to the officers had occasioned more uneasi ness in some of the States than any measure ever adopted by Con gress. Some of the States it is true were for the measure. Pennsylva nia had a similar provision for their officers before Congress passed the resolution. The States who were against granting half pay for life were not against making some compensation. The resolution proposed would satisfy the officers & the State & therefore he hoped it would be agreed to. Mr Bland moved to amend the Resolution by striking out “shall be discharged,” &c., to the end, in lieu thereof inserting “shall be credited in their annual quota to the amount of the half pay of the officers settled with.” Mr Clymer seconds the amendment. Mr Dyer against the amendment. It would not satisfy the States which objected to the half pay. They wanted to be discharged. They would settle with their own officers & satisfy them and then wanted to have done with it. Mr Cornell was against both the motion and amendment; spoke against both. Mr Witherspoon desires to know the difference between the origi nal motion and the amendment, thinks the argument should be confined to shew that the motion is better without the amendment, or that the amendmt excels the motion as it stood. Mr Bland explains that he meant by the amendment that the States should be jointly bound to the officers; but he had no objec-
