700 July, 1782 6. This is acknowledged by the Enemy, for Ld. Rawdon & Balfour extended the Time of Col. Hayne’s Execution for this Reason—vide the Message delivd. by the Town-Major, amongst the Papers here tofore sent. Colo. Hayne was particularly careful, to restrain his Men from plundering, & Acts of Violence, on the Royalists—he treated all his Prisoners well—when he took Mr. Andw. Williamson, formerly a Militia-General, in our Service, but, who became a Brit ish Subject, he used him like a Gentleman, & immediately gave him his Parol to Charles-Town. Upon the whole the Reasons which Colo. Hayne thought justified his Conduct were—That his making a pro fession of Allegiance, to the British King, was, under the Circum stances above stated, an Act of Necessity—that he complied with the Terms stipulated, by a passive Deportment, untill the part of the Country in which he resided was recovered by the Americans, & his Neighbours were in Arms—that the British having withdrawn, or failed in, Protection, he no longer owed Allegiance—that he was not obliged to follow the Enemy into, & remain in, their Camps, or Garrison, in order to receive such a Kind of Protection as they could give only there—that it cd. not be expected that he shd. refuse to bear Arms with Us, at the Time he took ’em up, because, We wd. not suffer him to remain at Home in a State of Neutrality, but insisted that he shd. declare on one Side or the other. If for Us, that he shd. shew he was in Earnest—If against Us, his Person & Property were at our Mercy, & he could not, in that Case, have expected any Favour.” RC and enclosure (PPL: Logan-Dickinson Collection). In the hand of John Rutledge. 1 The date that this hand-delivered note and enclosure were written is highly conjectural. They concern events surrounding the execution in August 1781 of South Carolina militia colonel Isaac Hayne for taking arms against the enemy despite having accepted British protection following the reduction of Charleston. Both Con gress and the southern commander threatened retaliation, for which see Thomas McKean to Nathanael Greene, September 21, 1781, and it was the latter threat that prompted debate of the Hayne case in the House of Lords in January and February 1782. It may have been the reprinting of excerpts from these debates in the Pennsylva nia Journal of June 22, 1782, that piqued Dickinson’s interest in the Hayne affair and prompted his inquiry soon after Rutledge returned to Congress (June 27) following his month-long absence as a congressional commissioner to the southern states. The Hayne case remained a topic of concern throughout the summer of 1782 and gen erous excerpts from the House of Lords debates were again reprinted in the Pennsyl vania Packet of August 27, 29, 31, and September 5, 1782. It is also clear that Dickinson was preparing the enclosed queries and answers and other papers received from Rutledge (see the following entry) for publication. At the top of the enclosure Dickinson wrote “Note on these words ‘the Peculiar Circumstances of his Case’—first insert the Papers No. 1 to 7—with this Introduction ‘Papers delivered by Colo. Hayne the day of his Execution to a Friend.’” Moreover, on the final page of the enclosure Dickinson copied four extracts from Rutledge’s brief letters printed here and in the
