November6, 1786 5 of federal taxes, but as nothing but Specie can be applicable to the maintenance of the federal government and the payment of our for eign demands, on the 18th of September, Congress declared that no other payments ought or could be made in discharge of the Specie proportions of a requisition, and on the 20th directed no other money to be received in the several post offices. 7 It will however be still in the power of any State to negotiate with the board of treasury in produce, who will always allow them credit for it’s net proceeds in specie, either here, or in Europe. We have received intelligence from Mr. Barclay, that he has con cluded a treaty with the Emperor of Morocco 8 —as soon as it shall ar rive, or we shall be able to know the terms, they shall be transmitted. The only beneficial effect this treaty can have, is to acquire the influ ence of Morocco in assisting us to obtain treaties from the other pirat ical States, for until a peace is concluded with Algiers and the regen cies of Tunis & Tripoli, our trade will still continue exceedingly unsafe in the Mediterranean and indeed in the Ocean as far as the Western Islands the Moorish cruisers having been there the last summer. It is said and we apprehend there is no doubt of it, that a treaty is also concluded with Portugal—this will be probably here in time to transmit at the opening of our next session of the Legislature. The Secretary has enclosed you, and a copy accompanied our last dispatch of a recommendation to the legislature to pay to the officers of our late federal line certain months pay due them in 1782 and 1783 which ought long since to have been paid them out of the treasury here.® It s exhausted state and the little prospect of it’s improving, in duced us to wish a recommendation to the State to provide the sums due and deduct them from her Specie proportion of the requisition— it can make no difference to her and will no doubt be a convenience to the gentlemen concerned. We wish however that the sum provided may be immediately made known to us, that a proper credit may be obtained in the Books of the Treasury. The intelligence from the Indian nations northwestward of the Ohio, co-operating with that we have received of the intentions of the southern Indians induce us to suppose, that unless timely exertions are made to prevent it, a general Indian War may soon take place. Tho’ our State or it’s frontier Inhabitants are no[t] such exposed to the effects of their hostility as their neighbours, it is yet more than possible, if the operations of the southern Indians are well concerted and supported, that we may in some degree be affected. Should this be the case, we shall be much obliged to you for the earliest informa tion, as in the event of a general combination it may not perhaps be improper to request the federal interposition and to make the protec tion of the southern frontiers, and the repression of the Indians a casus foederis. Upon this subject however it will be necessary to wait
