16 Novembers, 1786 the Aggregate of the Delinquencies is too great to be safely submitted to; and the Lethargy which generally prevails in the States seems to threaten a ruinous Increase of them. We have as yet but six States represented in the new Congress. This Week will close the Attendance of Col. Bayard. I wish much to be re lieved even if it be but for a short Time, 1 therefore hope that at least two of my honble. Colleagues will shortly appear. I have the Honour to be with great Respect, Sir, Your most obedient & most humble Servant, Cha. Pettit RC (NN: Emmet Collection, no. 886). 1 Perhaps the “Motion of delegates of Pensyl. to have a sum of state money delivered to them” that was referred to the board of treasury January 30, 1786. See JCC, 30:29n. 2 For this demand of Pennsylvania comptroller John Nicholson, see Pa. Archives. 1st ser. 11:33-34. 3 Not found. 4 For this October 31 board of treasury report, which was read in Congress November 3, see JCC, 31:924-27. See also/CC, 30:359-66; and Pennsylvania Delegates to Beniamin Franklin, July 26, note 1. " Apparently the schedule of deficiencies” prepared by the board of treasury in con nection with the 1786 requisition, for which see Roger Alden to William Samuel John son, November 12, note 5. Nathan Dane’s Address to the Massachusetts House of Representatives November 9, 1786 This day, in compliance with a vote of the Honourable House of Representa tives, the Hon. Nathan Dane, Esq; appeared before them, and made a state ment of the situation of public affairs. The Hon. Gentleman observed, that many subjects of importance now employ the public attention; but as most of them have been long under consideration, as the Hon. House was well informed generally in the affairs of the Union, and had lately received particular commu nications, he presumed it would be proper for him only to mention some things of more immediate concern and more particularly at tended to of late. He observed, the general impost-system, the compleat adoption of which was so much to be wished for, remains nearly in the state in which it has been for several months past; that eleven States had adopted it, and the objections of the other two, New-York and Pennsyl vania, he presumed, were considered of less weight, than they have been heretofore, and found not so many supporters; that those of the former were principally supposed to be founded in their constitution, and those of the latter in the condition of their internal debt. On the
