November 9, 1786 17 whole it may be reasonably hoped, that a measure, on the adoption of which so much good must apparently result to the Union, and on the non-adoption of which, so much evil will be acceded to by these States, whose characters are respectable, whose dispositions are federal, and he clearly conceived were interested in adopting the measure. As to the supplementary funds, Mr. Dane observed, that there is not much reason to expect they will be established; that a few of the States only had passed any acts on the subject, and he believed that most of these acts, when carefully examined would be found ineffectual. And on mentioning this subject, he could not help observing, with pain and anxiety, the success particular men have had in impressing on the minds of many persons, in the remote parts of this State, in particular, an idea that their present burdens are principally occasioned by the establishment of these funds, and to be continued twenty-five years, when in fact these funds are not in existence, and if they were they could constitute but above one fifth part of the present tax; that it was a matter of surprize to him, that representations so false and so insidi ous, could gain credit with an informed and enlightened people; their good sense must certainly very soon discover them. Mr. Dane stated, that eleven States have substantially complied with the recommendation of Congress, of the 30th of April 1784, for vest ing certain commercial powers in that body, and that the other two, New-Hampshire and North-Carolina, have failed only by going too far; that their acts manifest such a disposition to vest those powers in Con gress, that their compliance may be soon expected. The Hon. Gentle man observed, that this system did not embrace all the powers neces sary for making commercial regulations in all cases; that it contained but one of the two great principles on which trade is extensively regu lated, that of laying prohibitions, but not that of taxing or subjecting trade to duties; however, that in the present state of our trade and commerce, he conceived that the full adoption of this recommenda tion would enable Congress to make many regulations beneficial to the United States, and probably most of those that it may be wise at present to adopt. That all the States, except New-Hampshire and Rhode Island, had fully adopted the proposed alteration of the 8th article of the Confed eration for quotaing the States, according to their numbers of inhabi tants, &c. The Hon. Gentleman then observed, that the late arrangements made by Congress, for the settlement of the State accounts, for the discontinuance of the Commissioners in the several States, after the first of April next, and for instituting a board of three Commissioners, to sit when necessary, with powers, when written vouche[r]s cannot be obtained, to admit circumstantial evidence, and to report to Congress a state of claims not founded on the acts of that body, were after much
