26 November 11, 1786 year, and electing as delegates for the ensuing year Edward Carrington, William Grayson, Joseph Jones, Richard Henry Lee, and Madison. News of this “disgrace,” as Lee termed it, reached him about the 20th. Novr. ” and he set out immediately for Vir ginia. However, Joseph Jones immediately declined his appointment, and Lee was “re instated by an almost unanimous vote” on December 1. Still, Lee blamed Madison for abandoning him, and in a letter of December 20 groaned that Madison’s “dereliction of the friendship which existed between us rendered my affliction doubly severe.” See Madison, Papers (Rutland), 9:167, 175-76, 191, 219-20. In a letter of the same date to his brother Richard, Lee expressed reservations about accepting the appointment. “My re-election I have heard from the Gazettes. I am very doubtful of the part I shall take, and may be governed in my decision by the manner in which I was elected. If I resign I shall do it in a public manner by letter to the Assembly & assign my reasons. This conduct will of course render me a mark & may terminate ad vantageously in future operations, as I wish to get into your house the next election. A mans influence provided he has talents and is governed by truth, extends in a generous country by persecution.” Armes Collection of Lee Family Papers, DLC. Notwithstand ing, the rift between Lee and Madison soon healed and Lee joined his colleague in Congress on April 19, 1787. See JCC, 32:215. In yet another December 20 letter, to state auditor John Pendleton, Jr., Lee submitted his accounts for travel to and attendance in Congress from December 3, 1785, to November 6, 1786, adding expenses from November 6 to 20 while he waited in New York for “the result of the late election,” and from November 20 to December 20 for his journey to Virginia in “uncommonly severe weather.” Continental Congress Papers, Vi. Henry Lee to George Washington My dear General Nov. ] Jh. [17] 86, N-York I have your letter of the 31st Octr. 1 Besides the pleasure we all feel in knowing the health of Mount Vernon I am delighted and edified by your sentiments. This moment Genl. Knox & Mr. King left me having perused the part of your letr. which respects the Insurgents. They expressed the highest satisfaction in finding that your retirement had not abated your affectionate zeal for the prosperity of every part of the empire. Every day brings new information of the designs & preparations of the malcontents—they are training their people, have officered some considerable bodys & are forming connexions with their neighboring states and the Vermontese. A convention has assembled to devise ways & means of supporting their military arrangements, & of doing such other things as may be necessary for the prosecution of their intentions. We have authentic information that they contemplate a re-union with G. Britain, & it is not improbable but that the convention now sitting will formally make propositions of this nature to Lord Dorchester (Sir Guy Carleton) who is arrived at Quebec with plenipotentiary powers as Governor General of British America. They also declare their willing ness to establish an imperial government in the U. States and I beleive could they be indulged with their favorite wish abolition of debts they would chearfully enter into the plan of a federal government assimilat ing the British government. 2 In some matters these people certainly
