28 November 12, 1786 Roger Alden to William Samuel Johnson Hond Sir, 1 New York Novr. 12th. 1786. The Secretary of Congress has wrote two letters to the Executives of the several States to urge the attendance of the Delegates—the first in obedience to the commands of the late Congress—the other when he transmitted the representation for the month of Octr. 2 The Delegates from Massachusetts have reed their credentials—and that the State may be represented, Mr Gorham intends to remain in town until the arrival of some other Gentleman. New York is repre sented. The credentials from N Jersey were reed Yesterday—Mr Cad- wallader, Mr Abraham Clark, and Mr James Scheurman are ap pointed; but none of the Gentleman have yet come forward. Mr Bayard is not appointed—no information when the Delegates from Pensylvania may be expected—nor from Delaware. Maryland is repre sented. The Delegates from Virginia have not reed their credentials. Mr Nash and Mr Blount from North Carolina—the former is very ill, and has not appeared in Congress. S. Carolina is represented. From Georgia Mr Few. From this state of facts You can best Judge whether your attendance is necessary or not. 3 If the Virginia Delegates receive their credentials this week, six States will be present, but no one thinks that Mr Nash will be able to attend but at the risk of his life. I believe there is no doubt of his expecting the Presidency—perhaps his Ambition may overbalance his prudence and the advice of his physic [ian] but was I to give my opinion, I should say that Congress had already experienced the inconvenience of an Invalid. 4 Two of the Judges of the Court of Appeals are in town—Mr Griffin is not arrived—nor any letters from him. I enclose a letter from the board of treasury—13 were sent to the Office to be delivered to the Delegates of the several States. 5 I am very sorry indeed that the Vessel bound to Bermuda is so long in preparation—it is very unfortunate, & Mr Johnson feels so anxious, fearing that he may be too late for the court, that his friends, tho un willing to part with him, cannot prevent their wishes that she may soon weigh anchor. As he desired me to furnish him with all the late papers, I gave him all those which I had reserved for You—knowing that You would approve of it—for to please You is among the first wishes of Your sincere & affectionate friend. R Alden RC (CtHi:Johnson Papers). 1 Alden, the deputy secretary of Congress, had been married to Johnson’s daughter Nancy, who died March 1, 1785, for which see these Letters, 22:270n.2. 2 See Charles Thomson to the States, November 4 and 11. 3 See JCC, 31:928-30. Concerning his prospects for attending Congress, Johnson wrote the following letter to Gov. Samuel Huntington from Stratford on November 28. “I have the Honor of yr. Excell’ys. favour of the 20th Instt, & am much obliged by
