November 16, 1786 29 your Attentions. Give me leave to Congratulate yr. Excelly. upon the very uncommon success you have had in Financering. Having been at Danbury to meet Sher. Abel, & look’d out to no purpose, on every side in this Quarter for Money; 1 began to despair of seeing New York, at least for many Weeks yet to come. Yr. Excellys. favour has dissipated every present difficulty, & I have in consequence, as I have been ready this fortnight, written to the Hon’e Mr. Mitchell requesting him to come on as soon as possible with the Credentials of our Appointment, or if he sho’d be necessarily detain’d, to forward them to me, & upon his or their arrival shall set out immediately. I will certainly, & with pleasure, do myself the Honor to communicate to Yr. Excelly. whatever occurs at Con gress that I can imagine Merits yr. Excellys. Attention, & shall be happy & grateful for every Instruction, Direction, or Communication which yr. Exell’y shall please to favour me with, & have the Honor to be with the most perfect respect & esteem, Yr. Excellys. most obedient & most humble Servant, Wm. Sami. Johnson “P.S. I beg leave yr. Excel’y. to direct 2 or 3 Copies of the Acts of the two last sessions of Assembly to be forwarded us: And pardon my enclosing for greater safety a Letter covering a Note.” Gratz Collection, PHi. 4 A reference to John Hancock, whose health kept him from attending Congress the entire period from his election as president, November 23, 1785, to his resignation, June 5, 1786. 5 Apparently the board of treasury’s circular letter concerning the states’ deficiencies of $8,523,252 from former Continental requisitions and the fiscal measures required to preserve the union. No copy of this letter has been found in the PCC, but for the one sent to North Carolina, which is dated November 13, see N.C. State Records, 18:779-82. William Blount to Richard Caswell Sir, New York November 16th 1786 As yet there have not appeared a sufficient Number of Members to form a Congress. I arrived here on the 5th Instant and did myself the honor to ad dress a letter to You on the 6th. I sent it by a Water Conveyance and hope it will be to hand before this. Ever since the above-mentioned Time my Colleague Mr. Nash has been so much indisposed as to be confined to his bed at some Times better and again worse, today he appears to be as ill as at any other Time and talks much of returning to Carolina with Capt. Tinker who will probably leave this in eight or ten days. I have been thus particular respecting Mr. Nash to show the Necessity there is for some other Gentleman of the Delegation to come on and if the State mean to be represented by three, two ought to come on. The Insurgents in Massachusetts seem inflexably deter mined not to give up their arms only to a superior force and a Gentle man lately from that State high in Office and of the best Information has given it as his decided Opinion that much blood will be shed be fore they will submit to Government. I have the Honor to be, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient Servant, Wm. Blount RC (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Papers). Endorsed: “Reed. 30 Deer.”
