November 22, 1786 33 Court is now a sitting, but I believe are fearful of taking any vigorous steps against the insurgents. Mr. King sets out from this next week to meet the N. York and the other of the Massachusetz Commrs. to effect a compromise respecting the latter agt. the former: it seems they have got unlimited powers on both sides. 3 I remain wth. great sincty., Yr. Affect, frd. and Most Obed serv., Willm. Grayson. N.B. The Spanish treaty is at fault. Mr. Rendon is going to Spain imm- edy.—his business unknown. It is sd. that Spain & G.B. have con cluded a commercial treaty. RC (DLC: Monroe Papers). 1 See Henry Lee to Richard Bland Lee, November 11, note 2. 2 See Henry Lee to George Washington, November 11, note 2. 3 See the following entry. Rufus King to Nathan Dane Dr. Sir New York 22 Nov. [17] 86 Mr. Gorham left us on Monday, I expect to leave this place for Hart ford on Friday. 1 No addition of Delegates since I wrote you last. I wrote a note to each of the Printers in this City & requested that they would not insert any thing in their papers relative to your communica tion with the Legislature, 2 as the accounts were very erroneous. Noth ing has been or will be published. I have nothing to add except that we have a copy of the Treaty of Amity & Commerce concluded between Morocco & the US. 3 Its dura tion is Fifty years. Farewel, Rufus King RC (MBevHi: Dane Papers). 1 That is, to attend the Hartford convention which met November 30 to December 16 to settle Massachusetts’ claims to lands in western New York, for which see these Letters, 22:48-49n.7. The agreement to this protracted controversy reached December 16— which was signed by King, John Lowell, Theophilus Parsons, and James Sullivan for Massachusetts and Egbert Benson, James Duane, John Haring, Robert R. Livingston, Melancton Smith, and Robert Yates for New York—was entered on the journals of Con gress October 8, 1787. See JCC, 33:617-29. 2 See Dane’s Address to the Massachusetts House of Representatives, November 9. 3 See John Henry to William Smallwood, November 5, note 2. For the text of the treaty ratified by Congress July 18, 1787, see JCC, 32:355-64.
