34 November 23, 1786 Abraham Clark to James Madison Dear Sir, New York Now. 23d. 1786 Yon desired me to inform you of the sentiments of the Legislature of New Jersey respecting the Western Country: this I have waited some time to do with Certainty but am not able to do it fully. I am not in the Legislature and much a Stranger to their present System of Politicks, but as yet believe they are generally of the same Sentiments with my self, which you are fully Acquainted with so far as relates to the Missis- sipi. 1 I every day expect Instructions which I am told will be to my Wishes on that head. After seeing you in Philada. I had an interview with some of the principal members of the Assembly of Pennsa. who appeared no ways friendly to the late Resolution of Congress and purposed at the meet ing of the present Assembly to attempt Obtaining instructions to their Delegates on that head; there are two members just Arrived from Phi lada. Messrs. Meredith & Bingham; 2 the present members in their del egation are the same as last year except Mr. Bingham in the place of Colo. Bayard whose time of service had expired, this looks as if their Conduct the last year met with Approbation. With great Sattisfaction I saw your name in the Delegation from Virginia, and till within a few minutes expected to see you here in a short time, till Colo. Grayson informed me he thought you would not come soon. There are now Seven States in Town tho’ Six only can attend, as Mr. Nash from N. Carolina is confined by Sickness. I am, Sir Your Obedt. Humble Servt. Abra. Clark P.S. Mr. Schurman is here with me. 3 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). 1 Clark and Madison had conversed at the Annapolis Convention, which both had at tended in September, and afterwards in Philadelphia. Madison was concerned over New Jersey’s support of the northern states’ position on the Mississippi question, and saw in Clark a potential ally because of his interests in western lands, which might be enhanced if western settlers were to enjoy unrestricted use of the Mississippi River. For another view of the prospect that the southern states might obtain New Jersey’s support on this issue, see James Monroe to Madison, September 12, 1786. 2 See JCC, 31:928-30. 3 For James Schureman’s arrival, see JCC, 31:930-31. Samuel Meredith to Thomas FitzSimons Dear Sir Sunday Morng Novemr 26. 1786. I have been favoured with yours of the 22d in which you mention an order drawn by Lennox; with offers of accommodating me with the
