36 November 26, 1786 I mentioned some days past to Mr King my Idea of the Back Lands, & the little chance of even the Expences being defrayed by them, which he seemed to Agree in, & said it amtd to £100,000 Dollars specie; it would prove a happiness to all the settled parts of the Coun try if the Ohio was to be the boundary for a number of years, as well as be a means of quieting the Indians & Spaniards. The Troops raising to the Northward will not in all probability move much farther south. I wrote the above late at night & meant in the Morng to have made some alterations but I found that If I did not send as it is you would have no Letter. Please to make my Compts to Mrs Fitzsimons & all Friends & believe me to be Dr Sir, Yours sincerly, Sami Meredith RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 According to the attached note, Meredith owed £75 for one-half year’s “Rent of Lennox’s House,” less taxes for one years (£3.5), and the cost of “putting up a door” (£2.10). 2 That is, increasing the representation of the new Luzerne County in the Pennsylva nia Assembly to quiet unrest among the Wyoming Valley settlers. Cf. Susquehannah Co. Papers, 8:313, 415-20. Charles Thomson to John Dickinson Dear Sir New York November 29. 1786 I have just received by this days post your letter of the 21 in answer to my public letter of the 15 Sept last 1 informing you that agreeably to the mode prescribed in the Confederation by nomination and ballot you were one of the judges of the federal Court for hearing and deter mining a matter in controversy between the states of South Carolina and Georgia. Although I much regretted the backwardness of the states in send ing forward their delegates, yet on this occasion I was glad there was not a Congress formed, because in that case, my duty would have obliged me to lay your letter before them immediately. Whereas now I have an Opportunity as a friend of recommending this matter again to your consideration, and I am persuaded that upon a review of all circumstances considering your own character and standing in the commonwealth as well as the nature of the appointment you will find that you cannot so easily decline it. Had you been appointed by the Agents of the two states and declined, they might have agreed upon some other. But there is no provision made for supplying a vacancy where the Court is constituted in the manner this has been of which you are a judge. Government has claims upon individuals for services as well as individuals upon government for protection, and these of so
