December 1, 1786 37 binding a nature as to be indispensible and so essential that a non- compliance is a violation of the social compact. Although the federal government may in some instances be defective yet it has made a wise provision for settling disputes between state and state. The state over which you lately presided experienced the advantage of it in prevent ing the effusion of blood. But if the persons appointed judges to con stitute the court for deciding the controversy can withdraw at pleasure and refuse to serve, the provision is vain. Being therefore of Opinion that nothing but an Act of God or in vincible necessity can relieve a judge constituted as you are from a dis charge of the duties of the office I hope you will reconsider the matter and by the return of the post give me an Opportunity of informing Congress of your acceptance. I write this in the confidence of friend ship and not in my official capacity. I shall be happy to see you in New York & hope you will bring Mrs Dickinson & Miss Sally with you, to whom you will be pleased to remember me. With much esteem, I am, Dear Sir, Your sincere friend and humble Servt, Cha Thomson 2 RC (PPL: Logan-Dickinson Collection). Addressed: ‘John Dickinson Esqr, Wilmington, Delaware.” 1 See Thomson to the Judges for the Georgia-South Carolina Boundary Dispute, September 15, 1786. For Dickinson’s November 21 letter declining this appointment, see JCC, 32:13-14; and PCC, item 78, 8:195-98. 2 Thomson also wrote a letter on November 18 to his brother “Alexander Thompson, Pencader Hundred, Newcastle County,” extolling the virtues of rural life and explaining that he had just deeded over to him “the plantation where you live.” PPAmP. William Bingham to Richard Price Dear Sir! 1 New York December 1. 1786 You were So obliging as to indulge me with the Promise of your Correspondence, on my Return to this Country. 2 I have been pre vented (from various Avocations) from availing myself of many oppor tunities that have offered, to inform you of my Arrival. I must confess that I did not find the United States in as flourishing a Situation as I had Reason to expect. Many Circumstances have com bined to check their Prosperity—their immense Consumption of for eign Manufactures has greatly injured them, by involving them in a heavy Debt to Europe, which they will not be able to extinguish in many Years. In the mean while, the Specie of the Country, which after the War, constituted its only circulating Medium, has been almost wholly exported, & many of the States have had recourse to the dan gerous Expedient of Paper Money, which by not being in general well funded, has in many Instances, greatly depreciated.
