40 December 1, 1786 Please to make my Compliments to Mrs Price & believe me to be with great Regard, Dear Sir, Your obed hble serv, Wm Bingham PS. Please to inform me if there are any new political Publications, of any Note. RC (PPAmP: Price Papers). Endorsed: “Ansd. Feb. 5th 1787." 1 Dr. Price (1723-91), an English clergyman and well-known friend of America, was the author of the celebrated pamphlet Observations on the Nature of Civil Liberty (1776), and of Observations on the Importance of the American Revolution and the Means of Making it a Benefit to the World (1784). DNB. 2 Bingham had returned to America in May 1786 after a visit of a year in Great Britain and nearly two years on a grand tour of Europe. Robert C. Alberts, The Golden Voyage. The Life and Times of William Bingham, 1752-1804 (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1969), pp. 120-56. Charles Thomson to John Ettwein Revd. & dear Sir, New York Deer. 4. 1786 I was in hopes that Mr White would have taken Bethlehem in his way, but I find by your letter of the 4 November that both my letters were sent to you from Philadelphia. 1 It gives me great pain to hear that the Indian Congregation are likely to suffer for want of provisions. Upon receiving your letter, I called on the Secretary at War who informed me that immediately after the passing of the resolution of which I sent you a copy in a for mer letter, he dispatched Orders to col Harmar to deliver to them on their application the 500 bushels of corn and other articles mentioned in the resolution. 2 It might be well if this information could be com municated to them that they might send & receive this supply. But it is to be presumed that in case of want they will apply either to col Har mar or the Superintendant or his deputy, who I understand resides at Pittsburgh. I hope there is no foundation for the reports of an inten tion to commit another massacre. I am sorry the spirits of the frontier inhabitants are so imbittered against the Indian nations and wish with all my heart this bitterness could be removed. I presume the Indian Congregation will continue this Winter at or near Cayahoga. But in case they should think proper to remove to their settlements on Musk ingum, I am persuaded they may rely on col Harmars giving them all the protection in his power as he has received orders to this effect. With affectionate remembrance to Baron de Watteville & his lady 3 and sincere esteem for all the Brethren, I am, Revd & Dear Sir, Your friend and humble servt, Cha Thomson P.S. Should you have an opportunity of sending to the Indian brethren, a copy of the resolve of Congress may be of service, I there fore enclose one to be used as occasion may require.
