December 8, 1786 41 RC (PBMCA: Ettwein Papers). Addressed: “The Revd. J. Ettwein at Bethlehem.” 1 See Thomson to Ettwein, October 9 and 13. 2 See Thomson to Ettwein, August 26, 1786, note 1. 3 See Thomson to Ettwein, October 9, note 2. William Blount to Richard Caswell Sir New-York December 7th. 1786 On Saturday the 2d Inst departed this life at 4 OClock in the After noon my worthy Colleague Mr. Abner Nash, his death is here much Lamented, and I sincerely condole with his friends and Country the loss of so Valuable a Member. The inclosed paper will show the Respect that has here been paid him in his burial. 1 I am at present the only Delegate from North Carolina. As yet there’s no Congress formed but there would have been one three weeks since if Mr. Nash Could have Attended. 2 The Commotions in Massachusetts daily become more alarming. I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient servant, Wm. Blount Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 Blount undoubtedly enclosed the December 7 issue of Francis Childs’ New York Daily Advertiser, which contained an account of Nash’s funeral services. As Congress was not in session at this time, official observance of Nash’s death was limited, but Secretary Thomson left the following record of the event in his journal entry for December 4. “Mr. Blount informed, that the honble. Abner Nash, his colleague, died on Saturday last, having directed his corpse to be deposited in his family vault in North Carolina; Mr. Blount, therefore, desired to know whether it be necessary that the rites of burial should be performed here, and if so, in what mode. Whereupon the gentlemen [from the six states attending] were of opinion, that the rites of funeral be performed here in the forenoon in the usual mode, and that Mr. Blount, Mr. Carrington and Mr. Pinckney superintend the funeral.” JCC, 31:931. 2 For the response of North Carolina officials to the news of Nash’s death and Gover nor Caswell’s letters to Robert Burton and Nathaniel Macon requesting that they pro ceed to New York to take their seats in Congress, see N.C. State Records, 18:108, 337, 795. Neither attended, however, and North Carolina continued to remain unrepresented until February 13. JCC, 32:44. Edward Carrington to Edmund Randolph Dr Sir, New York Deer. 8. 1786 Your Excellencies favors of the 10th & 18th Ult. I have been hon oured with, for Colo. Crocket I will endeavour to obtain whatever may appear to be due to him. 1
