42 Decembers, 1786 Be pleased Sir, to accept my sincere congratulations upon your ap pointment to the Government of Virga 2 —you have sacraficed much, in point of Interest, to accept it, and it may happen, that your admin istration will not glide on without meeting opportunities for the full display of your Military, as well as political talents, and influence, in the supream command. How far the contagion of the Eastern disor ders will spread, it may not be so proper to conjecture from the pre sent quiet State of the other parts of the Empire, as from the experi ence of human Nature, and the Constitutions of our Governments. Man is impatient of restraint; nor will he conform to what is necessary to the good order of society, unless, he is perfect in discernment and Virtue, or, the Government under which he lives, is efficient. The Fa thers of the American Fabric seem to have supposed the first of these principles, peculiarly, our lot, and have chosen it for a foundation: in the progress of experiment, the fallacy is discovered, and the whole pile must fall, if the latter cannot be supplied. The Spirit of insurgency in Massachusetts, has proceeded to a Stage, which renders the subversion of that Government, an event too probable. The Malcontents have assumed a deliberate and systematic conduct, and, every day, gain confidence and numbers. The ineffi ciency of Government has been felt, by its friends, as well as enemies, and many are falling in with the measures of the insurgents, who, at first, shewed a readiness, and actually turned out to oppose them. A personal exertion of the Governor, such as was made by Sullivan in N. Hampshire, might, perhaps, in the infancy of the business, have been equally successful in Massachusetts: there has, however, been a kind of lassitude, and indecision, distructive of the confidence, and zeal, of all the members of the State, except those of property. These will lose all, in the event of a subversion of the Government, and will, doubt less, make an effort to preserve it. The Legislature have, during their late Session, brought forward Sundry experiments for suppressing the spirit of insurgency; Acts for bringing into operation force; for alleviating some, and removing others, of the greivances complained of; and, under these, one of in demnity, without an exception, provided advantage is taken of it, by oaths of Allegiance, by a certain day, have passed. Amongst the first description, is one for suspending the rights of the Act of habeas Cor pus, and this seems, alone, to have attracted the notice of the Malcon tents; they have added it to their list of greivances; have proceeded to appoint Military Officers for a large body of Men, and continue to suppress the setting of the Courts, and these things are effected, not in a tumultuous, but regular manner. Mr. Shays, their leader, orders them into motion whenever a Court is about to sit, and this proves Sufficient to procure an adjournment Sine die. Hitherto their mea sures have operated only in the infected Counties, but they have now
