December 8, 1786 43 set about to extend their powers into the neighbourhood of Boston, where no symptoms of the malady have been discovered. Upon the approach of the Session of the Court at Cambridge, last Tuesday sev’night, it was understood that a large body of the insurgents would march there to suppress it. Government accordingly took arrang- ments for its protection, and troops were actually advanced to receive the Enemy, of whom about 180 had assembled at some Miles distance from Cambridge, but conceiving their numbers not sufficient for the enterprize, they retired. The last accounts are that the Court was pro ceeding without interruption, and that a troop of Horse had gone for ward with orders to take as many of the insurgents as they could come up with in Arms. From the languor of Government upon every former occasion, there is but little reason to suppose the pursuit was pushed to any effect, and therefore it may lead to nothing of consequence, but it is thought, by those best acquainted with the State of things there, that not a drop of blood can be Spilt, nor Captive taken, with out the immediate consequence of a civil War. Had the insurgents been in sufficient force to attempt the execution of their designs at Cambridge, Government would have had no alternative, but to open this dreadful scene, or yeild the compleat domination of the State to them; and a conflict, terminating in their favor, would probably have been attended with the same consequence. This business began in County Conventions forming long lists of greivances the most triffling and unmeaning, that can be conceived, nor was there even an agreement in the complaints of any two coun ties: all, however, agreed in the remedies. These were, a suppression of the Courts, and an “emission of paper money subject to a depreda tion, and made a tender equal to gold and Silver, in all cases what ever.” Many of the Malcontents have now, however, thrown off this flimsy veil, and openly declare for an abolition of debts public and pri vate, and a distribution of property; in justification of the latter object they say that, in the act of opposing the british Government, the whole property of the people was forfeited, and ought, in the success of the revolution, to be considered as a Common acquisition. It is said that a british influence is operating in this mischievous affair: in the progress of the thing this has happened, but it certainly originated in the genuine baseness of the people. It is an undoubted truth that communications are held by Lord Dorchester with both, the Vermon- teers, and the insurgents of Massachusetts, & that a direct offer has been made to the latter, of the protection and Government of great Britain, which they at present decline to accept, but hold in Petto [i.e., reserve], as a last resort, in case future events may place them in des perate circumstances. They also declare that it is not their intention to touch the Continental Magazine, which is situated at Springfield, in the Midst of their country, unless driven to it to save their lives: they
