December 16, 1786 49 Clarkson had informed Mr. Nash by Letter that it was. I am an Executor to the Will of Mr. Nash of whose death I suppose you must long since have heard by the Public Prints and I request you Sir, to take every Necessary Step to force Mr. Clarkson to take up his Bill with the Damage of Protest for I suppose it must be protested as it is not paid to you.” Purviance Papers, NcD. Blount noted at the foot of the letter: “Clarkson lodges at Mr Simpsons Tavern in Newbern.” Charles Thomson to the States Office of Secretary of Congress Sir, (Circular) Deer. 14th. 1786 I am sorry to inform your Excellency that since the first Monday in November last, the States have not assembled in sufficient numbers to proceed to business. 1 At present there are delegates attending from sundry States, but Pensylvania, Virginia and South Carolina are the only States represented. This is the more unfortunate as among other matters of great importance which demand immediate attention & de liberation, the disorders in Massachusetts seem to be hastening fast to a crisis. The interests of the Confederacy certainly require a speedy and full representation in Congress. With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient and Most Humble Servant, C.T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 See Thomson to the States, November 11, note 2. Timothy Bloodworth to the North Carolina Assembly Gentlemen December 16th 1786 Agreeable to Youre Resolve of Yesterday 1 I (we) proceed to Lay be fore You a subject of importance, 2 which has for som time employd the deliberation of Congress. Som time prior to my (our) Arrival at New York, Don diego de Gardoqui the Minister of Spain appear’d at the seat of Congress, & produced a Commission from his Catholic Majesty, to fix the Boundery between the United States & the King his Master, in which was contain’d som general expressions that imply’d a power to negociate a treaty of Commerce, in consequence whereof, the United States in Congress Assembled, granted to John Jay Esqr. Secretary of forreign affairs; Plenipotentiary powers to negociate a treaty of commerce, & fix the Boundery of the United States with Mr Gardoqui, Insisting as an ultimatum, on the free navigation of the
