December 18,1786 53 ished Treaties; the propriety of taking up the important time of your honorable body, by calling its attention to transactions not immediately the object of its assembling might be somewhat doubtful. “The footing on which stands the commercial treaty with Spain is circumstantially re lated by my vigilant & honorable colleague. It would be superfluous in me to point out the importance, the necessity of this commerce to these atlantic states. But, as it is the duty of every friend to this country to deprecate any further shock to this already feeble tie of the federal union; I would beg leave to remark, that the temper & intentions of our eastern bretheren would be very dangerously misapprehended were it supposed they professed to barter the actual benefits of any part of the continent, for commercial advantages. No: they disclaim the ungenerous id[ea]. Not all the distresses they so pa thetically lament would induce them to relinquish our pretentions were the time come in which we will be able to assert our right; but in waiting for that desirable period, they suggest it is prudent for these states to accommodate themselves to what advantages they can acquire by suspending {an unavailing) claim tho’ undoubtedly just. James White. Fayetteville, 16th Decembr. 1786.” Edward Carrington to James Madison Dr. Sir, New York Deer. 18. 1786 Your favor of the 4th Instant was received by the last post. 1 It was fortunate that the same causes of the delay of the Mail, operated also to prevent the sailing of the Packet—with very little trouble I placed your letter in the hands of Mr. Chavalier. 2 The re-election of Colo Lee has afforded me the highest pleasure, as it undoubtedly relieves his feelings, but I am at the same time deeply affected by the loss of Mr. Jones from the delegation. 3 I cannot learn that Mr. Jay is proceeding in the business of the Mis sissippi. He probably will waite to see the Countenance of the new Congress. If he can assure himself of the cover of a bare majority, I be lieve he will make the treaty, and rely upon the timidity of some of the dissenting States for ratification. It is probable the Eastern column will be broken in Jersey and Pensylvania, and, it is equally so, that there will be a change in some of the Southern States. The business of a convention is well brought forward by Virginia, and I hope their act will be generally adopted. The dereliction of Mas sachusetts is, however, to be apprehended. The delegation of that State prevented the recommendation of the measure from Congress, as suggested by the deputations at Annapolis, and advised its non adoption in their Legislature. 4 The effect of this advice, I have not been informed of, but the natural supposition is, that nothing was done in the late session, and there will not be another, before the time proposed for the convention of the deputies. The reasons given by these Gentlemen for their opposition are, that the mode of amend ing the confederation is provided by the Act itself. Amendments, are to, originate with Congress, and, be agreed to by the States, and that it
