December 21, 1786 55 monwealth of Pensylvania and of the funds and revenues of the same.” 1 In the 14 page you remark that “the amount charged by the United States advanced to Pensylvania from April 1776 to Deer 1782 when reduced to specie by the continental scale is 2,075,606 48/90 dollars” and that “the amount which the state will be entitled to have a credit for in the said account will, you are confident exceed the fore going sum and leave a balance in favour of the State equal at least to the balances due by the state in specie on the existing requisitions, which according to act of Congress of April 27, 1784 is allowed to go in discharge thereof.” I do not clearly comprehend the meaning of this. Do you imagine that the balance in favour of the state will exceed the State’s proportion of the advances made by all the states on existing resolutions of Con gress for the common defence? This I am aware can only be founded on conjecture until the accounts of all the states are liquidated. And therefore it would have been well either to have omitted the paragraphs above recited or to have expressed them in a different manner. Every State you know has received sums from the public treasury, and every state has made advances for the common defence and thinks or affects to think that the Union is endebted to it. The truth is that every State must be debited with the advances made to it and credited for whatever advances it has made either in men, money, pro visions &c whether on requisitions or in virtue of existing resolutions of Congress & the balances, whatever they may be, will be carried to an aggregate fund which will be the debt of the Union and will be ap portioned on the several States according to the rule of apportion ment in the Confederation or by the number of Inhabitants. Now sup pose all the accounts settled & the balances carried to this aggregate sum and that sum again apportioned on the states, will the balance of Pensylvania be greater or less than its proportion? If less the defi ciency whatever it may be will be a debt on the State & charged in fu ture requisitions; but if greater, the balance will be passed to its credit and it will be allowed for the amount thereof or which will be the same thing, the state will be allotted the same in discharge of future requisitions. And therefore until the Accounts of all the states are thus settled & the balances carried to the aggregate sum & that sum is ap portioned all that can be said on this head is that the state will have a large balance to be carried to the aggregate debt, of which it will be chargeable with its just proportion. But this ought not to be held out as discharging any part of the existing requisitions. More especially those made since the conclusion of the War. And for this reason the paragraph following which seems to confine the View of the legisla ture to the payment of 55,004 dollars before 1 June 1787 in full of all the existing requisitions is very exceptionable since nothing less than a payment in specie of the whole balance of 356,440 68/90 dollars as stated in the first page of your View together with the proportion of
