56 December 21, 1786 facilities assigned to the State for interest can be a full discharge of the existing resolutions of Congress. You have seen the address of the legislature of Massachusetts to their Constituents and the amount stated of the monies raised in that state since 1780. It is alledged that that state has paid more taxes in that time than any state in the Union, I wish I could see a like state ment of all the monies raised in Pensylvania within the same period. You will excuse this freedom. It is only taken with a view to induce you to reconsider this subject, & to render Your view as perfect & com- pleat as possible. I am with much respect, Sir, Your obedt humble Servt, Cha Thomson 2 RC (DLC:John P. Morgan Autograph Collection). 1 For Nicholson’s A View of the Debts and Expences of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and of the Funds and Revenues of the same, December 1786, issued from the “Comptroller General’s Office, December 6, 1786,” see Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 19,904. 2 Thomson also wrote a brief personal letter on December 15 to Robert Morris intro ducing a Mons, de Le Couteulx, who wished to settle with his family in Lancaster County, Pa. Thomson Papers, DLC. For Le Couteulx’s introduction to Thomson by Thomasjefferson, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 10:395. Virginia Delegates to Edmund Randolph Sir, New York Deer. 24. 1786 We have been honoured with your Excellencies two letters of the 1st Instant, and another of the 6th with their several inclosures. 1 There being no Congress as yet, application cannot be made to that Body, for the Military Stores wanted for the Western Country; nor is there reason to suppose they would consent to furnish them, as the property of the United States, for any object under the direction of a particular State. Several applications of this kind, have been made, and uniformly refused. It is thought that any one instance of issuing the Stores of the Union for a State purpose, would introduce a prac tice, destructive of that oeconomy which is essential to the interests and safety of the whole. We are fully in sentiment with your Excellency that our Western troubles demand, in their nature, the interposition of the Arms of the Union, but Congress have been tried upon this point, & have deter mined differently. It is probable the Secretary at War may be authorised to sell the sup ply your Excellency proposes to purchase. We will, immediately, see him upon the subject, and be enabled to communicate the result by the next post. 2
