60 December 30, 1786 2 For Governor Caswell’s response to Blount and circular letter to the Naval Officers of North Carolina requesting a report on “each & every article exported from your port in the years 1785 & 1786," see N.C. State Records, 20:628-31. See also ibid., pp. 657-59, 676, 683-84. Samuel Meredith to Henry Hill Dear Sir Sunday One OClock. [December 31, 1786] I reed, your Letter last night & as tomorrow is the first ofJanuy I have been taking the necessary steps to forward the buisiness of the lands, from my Calculation it appears to me to be much more advanta geous to both of you, to make a final redemption which can be done for 14 Years purchase, the whole sum will not exceed £112. & you may get Holker in all probability to pay a considerable portion of it as his Lands then would be clear of any future demands, & if you have to pay till the time you sold deducting the Eight Years it may in all probability amount to as much. This you will consider, & give me an answer on im mediately; I have got Colo Fish to call upon the Treasurer with my State of the Matter, and offering to lodge Certificates sufficient for the purpose till an answer can be had, in which way I shall act, for indeed you dont tell me what time you sold the lands, & therefore were it plain sailing I would chuse to wait your answer. There is likewise a tract of 5,000 left by my Father but how to describe it I am perfectly at a loss, I beg you will consider of it, & communicate it to Mr Clymer who can turn to the papers, & give a perfect description of it, the same mode I would recommend as in the former Case. This being Sunday & the mail made closed before two, I have been taken up in putting the land matters in train; tomorrow, or if possible to day, some steps shall be taken to put in motion the secretary &c &c & I have no doubt that the necessary papers will get in time, I wish you were in as much certainty of receiving a favourable decision, as you are in the having the paper. If you should think of any thing else, they may I think get to hand before the decision takes place, you will consider that such a large sum as you have a demand for is hard to be raised, & there will be proportionately a great resistance to a concluding verdict, & if you have not all your pa pers, signatures & segelatum according to Gunter, there will be a pro crastination in the buisiness, therefore I shall be very neat & take care that the Publick shall be convinced of my great Industry & precision, both of which you have had so many proofs of that you will wonder how the World can be so blind as not to give me credit for. The time approaching for closing the mail & having a letter to write Mrs. M, you will excuse whats written, & whats deficient. Intended frequently to write Mr Hill but having a great antipathy to it, & generally deffering till the post was near setting out that I have
