January 4, 1787 61 with difficulty wrote Mrs M. of whom I have continually inquired of Nancy health which she has repeatedly informed me was mending that it may continue so is the fervent wish of hers & yours, Sincerely, Sami Meredith [PS.] Remember me to Mrs & Mr C. RC (PPL: John Jay Smith Manuscripts). Addressed: “The Honble. Henry Hill, Philadel phia.” Postmarked: “N. York Dec. 31.” Samuel Meredith to Henry Hill Dear Sir Thursday 2^ ClockJanuy 4, 1787 After a Slight conversation with a Col Fish at breakfast I retired to my Room & wrote in a hurry what you must have reed, in which I mis stated the payments of quit Rents, in considering the matter further & a second application to him, I find it will be only necessary for you to mention the time You sold to Mr Holker from that, deducting the 8 Years will leave the sum to be paid, which can be done in the way you proposed, & if Mr Holker chooses to settle it finally & releive himself from any future payments, he must pay up thereon due to the time, & then pay 14 Years purchase. The Treasurer fell from his Horse some time past, broke his leg in several places, & has not been visible unless to his Friends, so that I got Col Fish who is one, to give him an Extract of your Letter, & an offer if he should think proper to lodge the Certificates in his hands till I could get your answer to a letter I had written, in this way the matter rests at present. The other papers I will try to get & send by this Post but if I should fail you may depend on them by the Next. Monday was new Years day on which there was no business done in the Offices. I am anxious to hear how the Bank matter was decided on, it was coming very near to have but a Majority of one, if they lessen in the same ratio on the other readings it must be thrown out. Give my love to Nancy & believe me to be, Dr. Sr. Yours &c, Sam Meredith P.S. I waited to the last moment to give You some further information respecting the papers. I find from Mr Duer that in all probability they will be finish’d this Evg. All this Morng have been employ’d in trying to find out some private hand that will leave this tomorrow. If none offer shall send them by express as the post dont leave here again till Monday which is the 8th. RC (PPL: John Jay Smith Manuscripts).
