66 January 10, 1787 Congress yet and only the following Gentlemen attending from Geor gia Col. Few, South Carolina Pinckney, Bull, Kean, Huger and Parker, North Carolina myself, Virginia Colonel Grayson, Maryland Colonel Hindman, Pennsylvania Mr. Meredith & General Irvine, New Jersey [Mr C]lark and Mr Sureman, New York Mr. H[ar]ing, [... L]aurence and Mr. Smith, Connecticut D[r. Johns] on, Massachusets Mr. King and each of these Gentlemen who have not a colleague daily expect one. From Delaware, Rhode Island & New Hampshire none are shortly ex pected and perhaps never from the two little ones. So that you can judge as well as any person here when we shall probably have a Con gress, This Circumstance is very disagreeable to me for you know I de termined when I left home if I was not President that I would return shortly home and with a very great Certainty of that Object when a Congress is formed I [...] return immediately or before this if I could with any Reputation to myself after having gone so far in the Business. About ten days past I had a Conversation with some Gentlemen here of Public Character from Massachusetts respecting Shay and his Adherents, they say that on the 23 Instant a Court is by law to be held in one of those Counties in which Shays Adherents are very numerous which Government is determined to protect and they believe that Shay and his Adherents are as determined that it shall not set, if these Gentlemen are right in their Opinion the Issue of force is at Hand. It was then and is now my Opinion that Shay and his Party having gone into Winter quarters that is to their own houses from a remarkable se vere snow Campaign where they would have Time to coll and reflect won [Id not] again appear in the Field to [.. ,]ry several [...] from the Westward it has been reported for a day or two past that Shay and his Party are dwindling to Nothing as a Mob tho this Wants authenticity but the 23d of the Month is not far distant. I have not received a sin gle Line from you since the 19th Novr. and never was more anxious to hear from you and yet I dred to hear for I am sure there has been the Devil to pay at Fayetteville and that you have been of the weak party but pray As we hear all the bad as well as the good if good there is. Let me recommend my family to your Attention which I suppose unneces sary as I am sure they will receive it without. Tar is 11/ per Barrell only current in Mony that brought by Cossa sold for that, Pitch I know [is] now 16/ because Mr. Ramsay has long had a quantity belonging to Stanly limited to that price in it yet on hand, I do not believe that it is over 12/ current. I wrote Tom Blount by the Packet that sailed a few days past and shall write him again by Capt. Boudinot this Week. I do not write Mrs [B? by this] conveyance as I wrote her by Sundays post. Your’s affectionately, Wm. Blount RC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers).
