January 12, 1787 67 William Blount to Nathaniel Lawrence Dear Sir, 1 New York January 11th 1787 I find myself in Possession of an “Account of the County of David son in North Carolina” 2 a Copy of which I inclose to you knowing it cannot be otherwise than acceptable as your Military or Bounty War rant is located in that County. Your Warrant as well as I can recollect was for about Two thousand seven hundred acres and is by this probably passed into a Grant in your Name. The particular quality of the land on which it has been lo cated I have not been informed but I make no doubt but is very good as I put it very early into the hands of Colonel James Robertson with a Number more of my own and agreed to give him one fourth part thereof for the trouble of locating, the Division to be made by Lot if not otherwise agreed on, which is the same price I gave him for my own. The Surveyors fees I believe you are to pay a part of but I do not recollect what part nor can I inform you what the other Office Fees will be. You will see that it is necessary that I should have a Power of Attorney from you to convey to Colonel Robertson the fourth part agreeable to Contract. I was unfortunate in being from Home when you called but if you will fix any hour when you will call again and in form me by the Bearer I will certainly wait your coming or if this is not convenient to you, you will be sure always to find me at home at any Time before 11 OClock in the Morning. I am, Your Most Obedient Humble servant, Wm. Blount P.S. I will thank you to return to me the Account of Davidson County after you have perused it and if you please you may take a Copy. February 15 th 1787. 3 RC (PHi: Dreer Members of Congress Collection). 1 Nathaniel Lawrence had been a lieutenant in the Second Regiment of the North Carolina Line, 1778-81, in which capacity he had been taken prisoner with his unit in the fall of Charleston in May 1780. Heitman, Historical Register, p. 258. It was undoubtedly this service that qualified him for the bounty warrant that is the subject of this letter. 2 Not otherwise identified. 3 Blount apparently retained possession of this letter five weeks before appending this postscript. William Blount to Richard Caswell Dear Sir, NewyorkJanuary 12th 1787. Mr. Dowse arrived here last Night from Carolina and waited on me this Morning. He said very little about the Tobacco but I have heard
