68 January 12, 1787 that he purposes to return again but for what I do not Know as no Person has given me the least Information or even Intimation of what he has done or offered to do. I had only the favour of two Letters by him one ofjohn G. Blount of about ten Lines which told me in general Terms that there was a very great Uproar as I would see by an inclosed Proclamation but I did not find the Proclamation 1 and the other was from Winslow which did not contain much more and these are the only Letters that I have recived from any person at Fayetteville since the Session commenced. This I suppose will find you at Kinston a little more at Leasure than you have been for some Time past and you will infinitely oblige me by inform ing me in general Terms what the Assembly have done and in particu lar with the Tobacco for on this Head I am daily questioned by the Board of Treasury. 2 As there has been no Congress I can give you no Congressional News but 1 will tell you what Members are here Namely from Georgia Colonel Few, South Carolina, Pinckney, Bull, Huger, Parker and Kean, North Carolina myself, Virginia Mr. Grayson, Penn sylvania Mr. Meredith and Mr. Irvine, New-Jersey Mr. Clark and Mr. Scureman, Newyork Mr Laurence, Mr. Harring and Mr. Smith, Con necticut Dr. Johnson, Massachusetts Mr. King. Mr. Few daily expects Judge Walton or Major Pierce, myself, Mr. Bloodworth or some other, Mr. Madison and others are expected from Virginia, A Dele[g]ation is shortly expected from Maryland; Dr. Johnson expects Mr. Mitchel and Mr. King Mr. Dane. No Representation is expected from the other three States in any short Time namely Delaware, Rhode Island and New Hampshire. Hence you can judge as we [11] as any person here when We shall probably form a Congress. My Expectation of a Col league is found upon the Knowledge that I ought to have one a [nd] not upon any Information that I have recived from them for I have not recived a single line from either of them. The inclosed Papers con tain the latest Accounts of the Proceedings of Shays and his Adher ents. In a Conversation I lately had with Mr. King he informed me that a Court was to sit on the 23d Instant in one of the Counties in which the Adherents of Mr. Shays were very numerous which Court Govern ment were determined to support and he believes Shays and his Ad herents were as determined that it should not sit and if he is right in is Opinion & Conjecture the Issue of force is not far distant. The Object of my coming here so far as it respects myself appears quite in my power when a Congress is formed with which I assure you I am not perfectly satisfied for it will be very inconvenient for me to stay here the Year out indeed I am almost sometimes disposed to set out immediately but this I shall not do untill I hear from you. I am with unfeigned Esteem, Your most Obedient Humble servant, Wm. Blount RC (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Papers).
