74 January 24, 1787 New York appeard. on the floor for one Day, when an attempt for a president was made, there seemd. a Division in Sentiment, Doctr. Johnson had two Votes, which was as many as any Gentleman could boast; we adjournd. for consideration, since which New York has not appeard. in Congress: tis said the time of their Delegates was nearly expired, & that tis now quite out. No measures have been taken by the Legislature of this State to supply the place altho’ they have been con- vend. some weeks, I am told they are to re’elect next Fryday, 2 time will shew; twould not be a matter of surprize to me if they should omit the Matter for a month longer. You will see by the papers, that this State has by approbating the Con duct of the Govr. in not calling the Assembly upon desire of Congress; stepd. as twere out of their way to give Congress a Slap in the face. The Situation of Congress is truely deplorable, no one seems willing to contribute a Mite to extricate us from the mire into which we are fallen. Pensylvania in answer to Messrs. King & Monro, have so far de clared in favor of dividing the Debt, as to say, they will pay their own Citizens only. I cannot see there remains any necessity for keeping up a Represen tation in Congress, in our present Scituation, all we can possibly do, is to recommend, which is an old, stale device & no better than the wish of a few Individuals relative to publick Concerns. Our Eyes at present are turnd. to Masechusetts & expect by Satur day’s post, to hear of feats of Chivalry. We are told that Genl. Lincoln & Mr. Shays are this week to take feild & try the Title for Empire in the feild of Mars; whether Good or ill is to be produced, futurity must discover. You seem in Connecticut to be in the spirit of poetizing. The Anar- chiad, book 23d is read here, 3 with much pleasure & obtains applause, Tis judgd. to be a meritorious production. I had hopes from some Information your Son gave me, to have had your Company with Miss Wadsworth from Greenfield, but you & the fates disappointed me. In full hopes you will by Letter communicate from time to time how you feel & act in Connecticut, I am with much Esteem & respect Your very humble Sert., Stephen Mx. Mitchell RC (CtHi: Wadsworth Papers). 1 Although William Pierce arrived in New York on January 11 he did not take his seat in Congress until the 17th, for which see Pierce to Thomas Washington, January 14. 2 Egbert Benson, John Haring, John Lansing, Melancton Smith, and Abraham Yates, Jr., were elected on Friday, January 26, to represent New York in Congress the ensuing year. New York Senate Journal, p. 15, DLC(ESR). 3 Book xxiii of the Anarchiad, or “American Antiquities, No. IV,” was originally printed in the January 11 issue of the New Haven Gazette and Connecticut Magazine. A mock-epic poem satirizing American political life, written in collaboration by the Connecticut Wits,
