January 28,1787 75 David Humphreys, Joel Barlow, Lemuel Hopkins, and John Trumbull, the Anarchiad ap peared sporadically in twelve numbers in the New Haven Gazette from October 26, 1786 to September 13, 1787. It was widely reprinted in various American newspapers. See David Humphreys et al., The Anarchiad: A New England Poem, ed. Luther G. Riggs (1861; reprint ed., Gainesville, Fla.: Scholars’ Facsimiles & Reprints, 1967), pp. vi, 18-24. William Blount to Richard Caswell Dear Sir, Private New York January 28th 1787 By this Conveyance I send a Number of News Papers inclosed to your Address which contain all the current News of this place or rather may serve to shew that there is but very little or none. About fifteen days past seven States appeared on the floor of Congress and produced their respective Credentials and proceeded to the Choice of a Presi dent but in vain as not more than two states could agree in any one Man and I really am unable to unravel the Mystery of this Business nor can I form any Opinion who will be the Man. 1 After this Meeting there continued to be seven States in the City for about a Week but never again appeared at the same Time on the floor owing to indisposition of some one or other and after this last mentioned Period expired the New York Delegation were off the floor and the new Appointment did not take place before yesterday so that I suppose We shall again on Monday that is tomorrow have seven States on the floor and if no more I believe it is pretty certain no President can be agreed on by them. The ostensible Objection raised by the Yankees against a Delegate from No. Carolina being put in the Chair 2 is that that state is about to make some antifederal Appropriation of her Tobacco that is by order ing the Mony arising from the sale of it to be applyed to the Payment of the Interest due on the foreign debt and not suffering it to come into the Continental Treasury subject to their Appropriation. This re port has been spread by Mr. Dowse and indeed I am told that a Letter of Mr. Maclaines wrote as Chairman of a Committee justafies the Re port. If this is true it is surely a very antifederal Act. 3 Mr. Dowse goes further and says a Dissolution of the Union was publickly and openly spoke as a thing that would and ought to happen because the North ern states were injurious to the southern and that some Members said if a Dissolution was to take place that it would be best to hold on alto gether upon the Tobacco. In reply to all this I can only say that some imprudent Members may have expressed themselves unthinkingly but that I believe the Legislative Acts will evince a different Spirit. It is with great Pleasure I learn by a Letter from Mr. Sitgreaves for I have not been favoured with one from yourself that you are again re elected Governor also that Hawkins is elected to supply the place of Mr. Nash 4 and as he was elected so early as before the 20th December I am in hourly Expectation of his Arrival and Colonel Grayson of Vir-
