February8,1787 83 Charles Thomson to the States Sir Office of Secretary of Congress, Feby. 2d. 1787. I have the honor to transmit to Your Excellency herewith enclosed two Volumes of the Journal for 1786, 1 together with two Indexes for the Volumes already sent—one for the Legislature and the other for the Executive; And to inform Your Excellency that this day the United States in Congress Assembled have been pleased to appoint his Excel lency Arthur St Clair their President for the current Year. 2 With great respect, &c. 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 For this edition of the journals, see JCC, 31:969, no. 567. 2 SeeyCC, 32:11. 3 Thomson’s letterbook indicates that the following paragraph was added to the letters addressed to New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, and North Carolina. “I am sorry to mention that Your State still continues to be unrepresented.” Charles Thomson to the Board of Treasury Gentlemen Office of Secretary of Congress, February 8th. 1787 It having been suggested to me last spring that there must have been a mistake in the Convention with France touching the money advanced from the Royal Treasury, or that one of the millions said to be advanced previous to the Treaty in 1778 was unaccounted for, or that the million advanced by the General Farm must have been in cluded in the gratuity, I took occasion when I was in Philadelphia last May to confer with Doctor Franklin on the subject, and at his request stated the matter to him in a letter after my return. 1 In answer thereto he sent me the letter and papers, of which the enclosed are Copies. 2 The letter and papers appearing to me to concern the public, I thought it my duty to communicate them to Congress, who have been pleased to order Copies of them to be sent to your Board. 3 With great Respect, I have the Honor to be, Gentlemen, Your Obe dient Humble Servant, C.T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). FC (DNA: PCC, item 49). Misdated “Feby 8. 1786.” 1 The issue of the “lost million” which Caron de Beaumarchais claimed was owed to him for supplies furnished the United States in 1776, but which critics of Silas Deane and Benjamin Franklin believed had been a gift of the French government and should not be credited to Beaumarchais in the general settlement of his accounts, troubled Congress for years and was not finally settled until 1837. The subject has been thor oughly analyzed in Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 5:321-28. 2 See the following entry. 3 See JCC, 32:26n, 29n.
