84 February 8,1787 Charles Thomson to Benjamin Franklin Dear Sir New York Feby 8. 1787 I have received the favour of your letter of the 25 Jany. with the pa pers enclosed, 1 and as they related to a matter of Public Concern, I judged it proper to communicate them to Congress who have been pleased to order copies thereof to be transmitted to and lodged with the board of treasury, 2 where I presume they will lie, until Beaumar chais al[ia]s Hortalez & C[ompan]y who still keeps up his demands, shall force a further enquiry. I now return the original letters of M Grand & M. Durival agreeably to your request, and am with great es teem & respect, Dear Sir, Your most affectionately Cha Thomson RC (DLC: Franklin Papers). 1 Franklin’s letter and the copies of the enclosures made and retained by Thomson are in PCC, item 82, 3:273-76, 293-311. 2 See the preceding entry. Rufus King to John Adams Dr Sir, New York 9 Feby. 1787 By Capt. Boudinot who sailed in January, I wrote to Col. Smith, 1 in forming him particularly of the situation of our public Affairs. Since that Time Congress has been organized and General St. Clair of Penn sylvania placed in the seat of the President. Nine States have not yet been represented, and of Consequence few measures of importance have even been debated in this Assembly. Your communications of the favorable Disposition of Portugal, and particularly the directions of that Court to the Commander of a small Portuguese Squadron to ex tend their Protection to the ships of our Country against the Barbary Corsairs, have induced Congress to write a Letter to the Queen, ac knowledging their Gratitude on this Occasion, which Letter is, or will be, transmitted to you, with directions that Col. Smith should repair to Portugal and deliver the same at Lisbon. 2 I hoped when I wrote to Col. Smith by Capt. Boudinot, that my next to either of you would have been explicit concerning the Insurgency in Massachusetts. I inclose for your Information a Letter from a Mr. Dwight, a man of Education and Talents who is an Inhabitant of Springfield, which I received by the last post. The Letter may be relied on, and is the latest information we are in possession of—I send the original not having time to copy. 3
