86 February 10,1787 pleasing intelligence that he dispersed the Party under Shays on the morning of the 5th instant. 1 The Insurgents had marched on the 4th from Pelham to Pitersham distant 30 Miles, with about 1500 Men. Genl Lincoln moved after them at Eight OClock on the same Evening and came on them by Surprize at 9 OClock the next Morning, they fled in all directions; 150 were made prisoners—Shays escaped into New Hampshire, and his men are wholly dispersed. Genl. Lincoln marched on the 6th with a respectable force into the County of Berkshire where it is said there is a Body of Insurgents. The dissolution of the Assembly under Shays will totally discourage his parti- zans in Berkshire. The Leaders I think will be easily taken unless they fly. What will give you much satisfaction is the Declaration made by the Legislature that a Rebellion exists in the Commonwealth—you know the energy and Authority' of the supreme Executive in consequence of this Declaration. The General Court met on Saturday the 3d instant, re ceived the address of the Governor, which I inclose, and on Sunday the 4th approved the measures which he had adopted, declared that a Re bellion existed in the Commonwealth, and requested him to adopt the most vigorous measures for the suppression thereof. 2 I will not add—ex cept that I am most respectfully your obt. & very Humble Servt, Rufus King [RS.] I write this in great Haste and am uncertain whether I can get it on board the Packet. RC (MHi: Adams Family Papers). 1 For the account of Benjamin Lincoln’s dispersion of the Shaysites in Massachusetts which the secretary at war, Henry Knox, submitted to Congress on February 12, see JCC, 32:39; and PCC, item 150, 2:223-38. For an analysis of Lincoln’s operations, see Robert A. Feer, Shays ’s Rebellion (New York: Garland Publishing, Inc., 1988), pp. 370-81. 2 These Massachusetts General Court proceedings were subsequently laid before Con gress by the Massachusetts delegates on March 7, for which see JCC, 32:93-104. Rufus King to Henry Lee? My dear friend, 1 New York 10 Feby. 1787 My letter of Thursday 2 informed you that Lincoln on the 30th of Jan. was at Hadley and Shays with his Party at Pelham distant about Eight miles. About the 2d instant Lincoln moved his Troops to Pel ham and reconnoitered Shays’ situation. This approach gave evident uneasiness to the Insurgents, on the Morning of the 3d a Flag was re ceived from Shays with propositions of dispersing his party provided the Leaders could be assured of safety. General Lincoln replied, that
