90 February 10, 1787 have vouched for. Pennsylvania are all sure, Jersey but in part, we have nothing to apprehend but the delinquency of Delaware and from thence I think there is little to fear if the measure meets your Excel lencies Concurrence. I have the Honor to be your Excellencies Most Obedient & Very Hble. Servant, Nathl. Mitchell RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Addressed: “His Excellency Thomas Collins, President of the Delaware State.” 1 President Collins’ response to Mitchell’s appeal led Dyre Kearny to write the follow ing letter to Thomas Rodney February 16 and to attend Congress March 1. “I have this moment recived the enclosed Packet from his Excellency the President, requesting the Attendance of one of us in Congress by the 21st of this month for Pur poses which you be informed of by the enclosed. “Altho I am deeply impress’d with the importance of their Object yet the time before which the Question will come on is so extreinly Short, and my pecuniary resources not come atable till next Week That I very much fear the Attendance required will not be in my Power. “I very much trust it may suit Your Convenience to attend. You will be good enough to return me a Line Sir on the Subject with as much Expedition as Possible as the Ex press is in waiting." Gratz Collection, PHi. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry My Dr. Friend, New York 11th Feb 1787 I congratulate you on the favorable situation of the Government in the western counties; Lincoln has undoubtedly answered the most sanguine expectations of his friends, and indeed I confess has accom plished by the aid of warrants, what I did not apprehend could be ef fected in that cautious manner of proceeding. The Declaration of the existence of a rebellion will do great Honor to the Government & constitution of Massachusetts. I can already mark good consequences in the Opinions which it authorizes relative to our vigour and spirit. I feel myself a much more important man, than I was in the Humility of a few Days past. I hope the most extensive & minute Attention will now be paid to the eradicating of every Seed of Insurgency. Remember however that Punishment to be efficacious should not be extensive—a few & those of the most consequence should be the Victims of Law. Do you attend the Legislature? How will they stand on the plan of a convention at Philadelphia? For a number of Reasons, although my Sentiments are the same as to the Legality of this measure, I think we ought not to op pose, but to coincide with, this project. Let the appointment be nu merous, and if possible let the men have a good Knowledge of the Constitutions and various Interests of the several States, and of the good & bad qualities of the Confederation.
