February 11,1787 91 Events are hurrying us to a Crisis, prudent and segacious men should be ready to seize the most favorable Circumstances to establish a more perfect & vigourous Government. I hope you will be at leisure to attend the Convention. Madison is here. I presume he will be preparing himself for the Convention. You know he is a Delegate for Virginia; he professes great Expectations as to the good Effects of the Measure. Farewel. R. King RC (NNPM: Gerry Papers). James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir New York Feby. 15th. [11th?] 1787 1 My last was from Richmond of the 4th of December, 2 and contained a sketch of our legislative proceedings prior to that date. The principal proceedings of subsequent date relate as nearly as I can recollect 1st to a rejection of the Bill on crimes & punishments, which after being al tered so as to remove most of the objections as was thought, was lost by a single vote. The rage agst. Horse stealers had a great influence on the fate of the Bill. Our old bloody code is by this event fully restored, the prerogative of Conditional pardon having been taken from the Execu tive by a Judgmt. of the Court of Appeals, and the temporary law grant ing it to them having expired and been left unrevived. I am not with out hope that the rejected bill will find a more favorable disposition in the next Assembly. 2dly to the bill for diffusing knowledge. It went through two readings by a small majority and was not pushed to a third one. The necessity of a systematic provision on the subject was admit ted on all hands. The objections agst. that particular provision were 1. the expence; wch. was alledged to exceed the ability of the people 2. the difficulty of executing it in the present sparse settlement of the Country. 3. the inequality of the districts as contended by the Western members. The last objection is of little weight and might have been easily removed if it had been urged in an early stage of the discussion. The bill now rests on the same footing with the other unpassed bills in the Revisal. 3dly to the Revisal at large. It was found impossible to get thro’ the system at the late session for several reasons. 1. the changes which have taken place since its compilement, in our affairs and our laws; particularly those relating to our Courts, called for changes in some of the bills which could not be made with safety by the Legisla ture. 2. the pressure of other business which tho’ of less importance in itself, yet was more interesting for the moment. 3. the alarm excited by an approach toward the Execution-Bill which subjects land to the pay ment of debts. This bill could not have been carried, was too impor-
