92 February 11,1787 tant to be lost, and even too difficult to be amended without destroy ing its texture. 4. the danger of passing the Repealing Bill at the end of the Code, before the operation of the various amendments &c. made by the Assembly could be leisurely examined by competent Judges. Under these circumstances it was thought best to hand over the residue of the work to our successors, and in order to have it made compleat, Mr. Pendleton, Mr. Wythe & Blair were appd. a Committee to amend the unpassed bills & also to prepare a supplemental revision of the laws which have been passed since the original work was exe cuted. It became a critical question with the friends of the Revisal whether the parts of the Revisal actually passed shd. be suspended in the meantime, or left to take their operation. The first plan was strongly recommended by the advantage of giving effect to the system at once, and by the inconveniency arising from the latter of leaving the old laws to a constructive repeal only. The latter notwithstanding was preferred as putting the adopted bills out of the reach of a succeeding Assembly, which might possibly be unfriendly to the system altogether. There was good reason to suspect Mr. {Henry} 3 who will certainly be {then a member}. By suffering the bills which have passed to take ef fect, in the meantime it will be extremely difficult to get rid of them. 4thly Religion. The Act incorporating the protestant Episcopal Church excited the most pointed opposition from the other Sects. They even pushed their attacks agst. the reservation of the Glebes &c. to the Church exclusively. The latter circumstance involved the Legislature in some embarrassment. The result was a repeal of the Act, with a saving of the property. 5th The district Courts. After a great struggle they were lost in the House of Delegates by a single voice. 6thly taxes; the at tempts to reduce former taxes were baffled, and sundry new taxes added; on lawyers 1/10 of their fees, on Clks of Courts % of do., on doctrs. a small tax, a tax on houses in towns so as to level their burden with that of real estate in the Country, very heavy taxes on riding car riages, &c. Besides those an additional duty' of 2 Per Ct. ad valorem on all merchandizes imported in vessels of nations not in treaty with the U.S. an addl. duty of 4 d. on every gallon of Wine except French wines, and of 2 d. on every gallon of distilled Spirits except French brandies which are made duty free. The exceptions in favor of France were the effect of the sentiments & regulations communicated to you by Mr. Calonne. 4 A printed copy of the communication was reed, the last day of the Session in a newspaper from N. York and made a warm impres sion on the Assembly. Some of the taxes are liable to objections, and were much complained of. With the additional duties on trade they will considerably enhance our revenue. I should have mentioned a duty of 6/. per Hhd. on Tobo. for complying with a special requisition of Congs, for supporting the corps of men raised for the public secu rity. 7th the Mississippi. At the date of my last the House of Delegates
