February 11,1787 93 only had entered into Resolutions agst. a surrender of the right of navigating it. The Senate shortly after concurred. The States South of Virga, still adhere as far as I can learn to the same ideas as have gov erned Virginia. N. Jersey one of the States in Congress which was on the opposite side has now instructed her Delegates agst. surrendering to Spain the navigation of the River even for a limited time. And Pena, it is expected will do the same. I am told that Mr. J{ay} has {not ven tured to proceed in his project} and I suppose will {not now do it}. 8th The Convention for amending the federal Constitution. At the date of my last Virga, had passed an Act for appointing deputies. The deputa tion consists of Genl. Washington, Mr. Henry late Govr., Mr. Randolph present Govr., Mr. Blair, Mr. Wythe, Col. Mason & Js. M[adison]. North-Carola, has also made an appt, including her present & late Govr. S. C. it is expected by her delegates in Congs, will not fail to fol low these examples. Maryland has determined I just hear to appt, but has not yet agreed on her deputies. Delaware, Penna. & N. Jy. have made respectable appointmts. N. York 5 has not yet decided on the point. Her Assembly has just rejected the impost which has an unpro- pitious aspect. It is not dear however that she may not yet accede to the other measure. Connecticut has a great aversion to Conventions, and is otherwise habitually disinclined to abridge her State preroga tives. Her concurrence nevertheless is not despaired of. Massts. it is said will concur, though hitherto not well inclined. N. Hampshire will probably do as she does. Rhode Island can be relied on for nothing that is good. On all great points she must sooner or later bend to Massts. & Connecticut. Having but just come to this place I do not undertake to give you any general view of American Affairs, or of the particular state of things in Massts. The omission is probably of little consequence as in formation of this sort must fall within your correspondence with the office of foreign affairs. I shall not however plead this consideration in a future letter when I hope to be more able to write fully. Feby. 15. 1787 Mr. Fitzhugh has paid into my hands for your use £58.6.8. Virga. Currency in discharge of 1000 livres advanced to him in France. He was anxious to have settled it according to the actual exchange instead of the legal one of 33% on the British standard, and even proposed the addition of Interest. I did not hesitate to conclude that I should fulfill your intentions by rejecting both. I have sent to Mrs. Carr £25 for the use of your nephews as you directed. The balance is in my hands sub ject to your orders tho’ I shall venture to apply it in the same way if I shd. be apprized of its being necessary to prevent interruption to the studies of the Young gentlemen. My last informed you of the progress &c. of Master Peter. I have since reed, from the presidt. of Hampden
