94 February 11,1787 Sydney a letter containing the following paragraph. 6 “Dabney Carr is a boy of very promising genius & very diligent application. He conducts himself with a good deal of prudence, & I hope will answer the expec tations of his friends. I was afraid at first that he was dull or indolent from his appearance, but I find myself agreeably disappointed. His principal study at present is the Latin language, but he is also obliged to pay some attention to his native tongue [”]. I remain Dr. Sir Yr. Affecte. friend, Js. Madison Jr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). For the outline of this letter that Madison jotted on the verso of one he had recently received, see Madison, Papers (Rutland), 9:270. 1 Madison, who had arrived in New York Friday, February 9, wrote the first two para graphs of this letter before attending Congress on the 12th. “Having but just come to this place,” he explained in his second paragraph, he could not give Jefferson informa tion on national affairs, “or of the particular state of things in Massts., news of which was presented to Congress Monday, February 12. JCC, 32:39. Madison wrote and dated the final paragraph “Feby. 15” and amended the opening dateline accordingly, al though the numeral over which he wrote “5" is not decipherable. In his March 19 letter to Jefferson, however, Madison unmistakably wrote “My last was of the 11th of Feby.” Notwithstanding, the editors of the Jef ferson and Madison papers rendered that date as “15th of Feby.” to coincide with their printing of this letter under February 15. See Jef ferson, Papers (Boyd), 11:152, 219; and Madison, Papers (Rutland), 9:267, 317. Cf. Bur nett, Letters. 8:539. 2 See Madison, Papers (Rutland), 9:189-92. 3 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in cipher. 4 For Calonne’s October 22 letter to Jefferson on French trade, see Edward Carring ton to Madison, December 27, 1786, note 3. 5 At this point in the manuscript, Madison later inserted an asterisk to which he keyed the following penciled observation: “to be noted in proof of error in the leading position assigned to N.Y; to the detriment of Vas. claim & right to precedence. See Res. of Congress 21 Feby. [77S7]-advertisment to Secret Journal.” On that date the New York delegates presented their instructions to Congress and moved that the convention to be held in Philadelphia restrict itself to “revising the Articles of Confederation ... to render them adequate to the preservation and support of the Union”—a recommenda tion that closely resembled the resolution adopted later that day. See JCC, 32:71—74. 6 For this letter from John Blair Smith, see Madison, Papers (Rutland), 9:204-5. James Madison to James Monroe Dear Sir New York Feby. 11. 1787 I got to this place two days ago after a very tedious journey. I had the pleasure to find the family with which you are connected well, 1 but full of complaints agst. your epistolary failures. I became your apologist as far as I could, but have agreed to give you up if you do not give future proofs of repentance & amendment. I have already intimated to you the urgency of Mazzei on the sub ject of his protested bills, 2 and asked for information as to the steps taken by you in his behalf, and your advice as to the further steps proper to be taken. Dorman is here still, and of course I shall have an
