February 12,1787 95 opportunity of serving our friend as far as the case will admit. Let me hear from you pray as quickly as possible. Let me have your com mands also as to the ballance I owe you. 3 It is ready & will remain so till you direct its appropriation. Having not yet taken my seat in Congress and had but little conver sation with the members, I have nothing to communicate on the state of business before them. A congress has been made up but a few days only. After some contest between the friends of Mr. Blount & Genl. Sinclair, the latter was put into the chair. 4 The inclosed paper will give you the latest intelligence from Massts. Our friend Grayson remains nearly in status quo. He is a valetudinarian without being sick, and un happy without knowing why. Give my best respects to Mrs. Monroe. I regretted much when at Fredricksbg that I should be so near without seeing you both, but it was impossible without a culpable delay & wd. have been otherwise inconvenient. Adieu: Yrs affecy. Js. Madison Jr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 9:260-61. 1 That is, the New York family of his wife, Elizabeth Kortright Monroe. 2 For which see ibid., pp. 100-104. 3 For the $137.50 Madison owed Monroe, see ibid., pp. 220-21. 4 That is, William Blount and Arthur St. Clair. See JCC, 32:11. Virginia Delegates to Edmund Randolph Sir. N York. Feby. 12th. 1787. We have the honor of acknowledging the receipt of your letter of the 21st Jany., & beg leave to assure you of our entire concurrence in your proposition of a weekly correspondence. With respect to the expences of the late expedition agt. the Indians, we shall act according to circumstances though from present appear ances we have very little hopes of getting them placed to the account of the Continent. 1 We have the pleasure to acquaint you that from information reed, to day from Genl. Lincoln, there is every reason to conclude the re bellion in Massachusetz bay is on the point of being extinguished: the party under Shay (the ring leader) is dispersed. The Genl, has taken one hundred & fifty prisoners, & is pursuing the fugitives. As there is now a Congress, we shall attend particularly to your re quest respecting the Arms, & give you information thereon in our next. 2 We have the honor to be with the highest respect yr. Excys. Most Obed Servts., Willm. Grayson. Js. Madison Jr
