February 15,1787 97 explicit, it would have led me to enquire more particularly, and I cer tainly had not left the City until provision had been made for the pay ment, tho’ it had been attended with giving you the trouble to cut up more of my Certificates. It is true Sir many of them have been for Sale, and for purposes I am not ashamed of—for discharging Debts con tracted during the progress of the Revolution—which cost me a great part of my Property when many others were making their Fortunes. As to the Attestation to the Accounts, I request you to recollect that before 1 removed my Family from Philada. I communicated to you my Doubts on that Head, and desired to know whether the Attestation could not be made by one of the Gentlemen who did the Business for me, and that you told me it could be done. I own that I have since been surprised to find them presented to me for that purpose, but I ascribed it to your desire to have it done by me rather than another, as being more regular—that the Attestation by either would give the State no greater security I agree, for I have that Opinion of the In tegrity of all concerned, that nothing would be done by them where that Sanction is not required, that they would not be very ready to confirm by it, if it should be thought necessary. I hope to be in Philada. by the 20th, and am Sir, Your humble Servant, Ar. St. Clair RC (NjMoHP: Lloyd W. Smith Collection). 1 For the context of this letter, see St. Clair to Nicholson, January 30, note. James Madison to Edmund Randolph Dear Sir N. York Feby 15th. 1787. Having but recently got here I had not time to add a few private lines as I wished to our public letter. 1 We have as yet no definitive in formation from Masts, touching the operations of Genl. Lincoln. Lit tle doubt however is entertained that the insurrection will be effectu ally quelled. The Legislature of that State seem to have taken great spirits from the prospect. They have come at length to the Resolution of declaring the existence of a Rebellion, and it is said mean to disarm and disfranchise all who have been engaged in it. We have no infor mation from any other quarter, and I have not been here long eno. to collect any just idea of the general politics here. The papers of the day are very barren, and I inclose one only as introductory to my purpose of inclosing them as often as they may deserve it. Adieu Yrs. affy, Js. Madisonjr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Maison, Papers (Rutland), 9:270-71. 1 See Virginia Delegates to Randolph, February 12.
