98 February 16,1787 Charles Thomson to Edmund Randolph Sir Office of Secretary of Congress. Feby. 16th. 1787. Your letter of Deer. 1st 1786, containing the Act of Your Legislature for appointing deputies to meet in a convention of the States at Philadelphia in May next has been duly reed. & is under the consider ation of a grand committee. 1 I have now the honor to transmit to Your Excellency herewith en closed two pieces of Intelligence communicated to Congress. No. 1 is an extract of a letter from a person in Kentucke to a Dele gate for Pensylvania. No. 2 is Intelligence reed. & communicated by a Delegate for North Carolina. 2 Although they do not come duly authenticated, yet they are judged worthy of some notice & sufficient to ground an enquiry thereon; And as they relate more immediately to Your commonwealth, and the citizens thereof, I have it in charge to transmit them to Your Excel lency, that You may make such enquiry, and take such steps to put an immediate & effectual stop to these irregularities, if found to exist, which the reputation and peace of Your State and the honor and tran quility of the confederacy may require. With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient & Most Humble servant, Cha Thomson ENCLOSURES Extracted from a letter from a gentleman in Kentucky to his Friend in Philadelphia, December 12th, 1786. Clarke is playing Hell. He is raising a Regiment of his own, and has 140 men stationed at Opost already now under the Command of Dal ton. Seized on a Spanish Boat worth 20,000 Dollars—or rather Seized three Stores at Opost, worth this sum, and the Boat which brought them up. J. R. Jones, Commissary General, gets a large share of the plunder, and has his family at Opost. Platt comes in for Snacks—he brought the Baggage, and a thousand pounds of small furs to the Falls the day I left it. Plunder all, means to go to Congress to get the Regi ment put upon the establishment—he is the 3d Captain. The Furs he tells his Associates are necessary to bear his expences—but he dont re turn. I laid a plan to get the whole seized and secured for the owners, and Bullet and Anderson will execute it. Clarke is eternally Drunk, and yet full of design. I told him he would be hanged—he laughed and said he could take refuge among the Indians—a stroke is medi tated against St. Louis and the Natches.
