102 February 18, 1787 S. Carolina, Maryland excepted, have made appointments, and Mary land has determined to do so tho’ she has not yet agreed on the indi viduals. S. Carolina & Georgia are supposed by their Delegates here to be well disposed, to back the plan. 4. the troops raising under the au thority of Congs, in Massts. The prospect of a close to the turbulent scenes in that quarter has produced a motion for stopping the enlist ments. 5 The delegates from the N England States generally and from Massts. in particular, are anxious that the motion should be sus pended for a few weeks, that the influence of the military prepara tions of the U.S. may be continued in favor of their State Measures, some of which are likely to be pretty vigorous, and to try the strength of their Govt. It appears besides that the Ringleader of the insurrec tion has not been apprehended, and according to report, still har bours mischeif. We begin to experience already the inconveniency of the clause in our treaties stipulating the privileges of the most fa vored nation. Mr. Vanberkel has got hold of the late Act of our As sembly in favor of French Wines & brandies brought in French bot toms, and contends that it violates the Dutch Treaty. 6 He has been told that those privileges are a requital for equal ones granted on the side of France, and that Holland must pay the price before she can claim the concession. His answer is that nothing is said about com pensation in the Treaty; that it is expressly stated that the Dutch shall pay no higher duties than the most favored Nation is or shall be obliged to pay. We tell him the compensation is necessarily implied; and that a contrary interpretation would render the Treaty too in convenient to both the parties to be supposed the true one. He per sists in alledging that it is the true one, that the treaty pursues the carrying policy marked by a like stipulation in every treaty where it could be introduced, and that the clause relative to compensation was intentionally omitted. He means to bring the matter before Congs, and to direct the Dutch Consul to protest agst. the duties in case of their being exacted. He professes and appears notwithstand ing to be anxious for an amicable adjustment, and would have fore borne to apply to Congs if we could have authorized a hope that the law would not be actually put in Execution agst. Dutch Cargoes. As it is he means to put a copy of the note to Congs, in our hands, that it may be communicated to the State. 7 I have not yet thoroughly investi gated the question. The letter of the Treaty is on his side. The equity of it on ours. If his construction be admitted, the U.S. could not pur chase the W. India Trade of G.B. or France without letting in Holland to the privileges granted on our part, altho’ she should keep her ports in that quarter shut agst. us: a consideration not only unjust to wards us, but creating objections on the part of G.B. or France. A very dismal account of Clarke’s proceedings in the Western Country has been informally laid before Congress, & will be forwarded to your department. 8 If the information be well founded you will proba-
