February21,1787 113 post at the same place, (which he informs us he shall do so soon as Massachusetts shall make such provision, on the Credit of the Union, as will enable him to effect that Measure) we have thought it prudent under present Circumstances to rest satisfied with these Arrangements. 4 With the Highest Respect, we have the Honor to be yr. Excellency’s Obt. & very Humble Servts., Rufus King Nathn. Dane RC (M-Ar: Legislative Papers). Written by Rufus King and signed by King and Nathan Dane. 1 None of these letters is in the Howdoin and Temple Papers (MHS Colls.), where Gover nor Bowdoin’s surviving correspondence on Shays’ Rebellion has been printed, but for his appeal to New York for assistance in pursuing the fugitives from the rebellion who had fled into neighboring states, see the Massachusetts Delegates to Bowdoin, March 4. 2 This “information” was contained in three documents which Nathan Dane submit ted with a “Representation” to Congress March 9, for which see JCC, 32:93-105; and PCC, item 74, fols. 382-403. 3 Governor Bowdoin’s proclamation, which offered rewards for the capture of Daniel Shays and other ringleaders of the rebellion in Massachusetts, was sent to the executives of all the states to which fugitives might be expected to flee, including Pennsylvania, for which see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 11:119; and Pa. Council Minnies, 15:170, 176-77. 4 The Massachusetts delegates were undoubtedly cautious on this point because of concerns that had already been expressed over the expense of the federal troops autho rized for containing Shays’ Rebellion. A board of treasury letter on this subject and a Charles Pinckney motion for suspending recruitment under the October 20 authoriza tion had been referred to committee on February 14. But the continued threat posed by the Shavsite fugitives led the committee to recommend postponement of a decision, and Congress on February 19 ordered that the subject be placed “under the injunction of secrecy for two months." See JCC, 32:32-33, 57, 61-64; and James Madison’s Notes of Debates, February 19 and March 28. Charles Thomson to the States Sir Office of Secretary of Congress, Feby. 21st. 1787. I have the honor to transmit to Your Excellency herewith enclosed An Act of the United States in Congress Assembled 1 & am, with the greatest respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient & Most Humble Servt., Cha Thomson RC (IMunS: Continental Congress Collection). Addressed: “His Excellency The Gover nor of Connecticut.” LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). Addressed: "Circular. 1 For the debate over and adoption of this February 21 resolve recommending the convening of a convention to meet in Philadelphia “on the second Monday in May next.... for the sole and express purpose of revising the Articles of Confederation and reporting to Congress and the several legislatures,” see JCC, 32:71-74; and James Madi son’s Notes of Debates, this date.
