116 February 24, 1787 to the 15th inclusive 3 days.. .June 18th to the 23d inclusive 6 days.. .July 2d to the 21st inclusive 20 days.. .July 24th to August 4th inclusive 12 days... August 7th to the 11 th inclusive 5 days ... August 16th to the 24th inclusive 9 days ... August 20th to Sept 7th inclusive 11 dayss ... Sept 11th to the 15th inclusive 5 days ... Sept. 17th to Octor. 31st inclusive, excepting one day Absent, 45 days ... £240.0.0.” bMS Am 1649.5, MH-H. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir New York Feby. 24. 1787. If the contents of the Newspapers of this place find their way into the gazettes of Richmond you will have learnt that the expedition of Genl. Lincoln against the insurgents has effectually dispersed the main body of them. 1 It appears however that there are still some de tachments which remain to be subdued, & that the Government of Massts. consider very strong precautions as necessary agst. further eruptions. The principal incendiaries have unluckily made off. By some it is said they are gone to Canada; by others that they have taken shelter in Vermont, and by some that they are opening a communica tion with the upper parts of this State. The latter suggestion has prob ably some color, as the Governor here has thought proper to offer re wards for them after the example of Govr. Bowdoin. 2 We have no interesting information from Europe. The only step of moment taken by Congs, since my arrival has been a recommendation of the proposed meeting in May for revising the federal articles. Some of the States, considering this measure as an ex traconstitutional one, had scruples agst. concurring in it without some regular sanction. By others it was thought best that Congs, should re main neutral in the business, as the best antidote for the jealousy of an ambitious desire in them to get more powers into their hands. This suspence was at length removed by an instruction from this State to its delegates to urge a Recommendatory Resolution in Congress which accordingly passed a few days ago. 3 Notwithstanding this instruction from N. York, there is room to suspect her disposition not to be very federal, a large majority of her House of delegates having very lately entered into a definitive refusal of the impost, and the instruction it self having passed in the Senate by a casting vote only. In consequence of the sanction given by Congs. Massts. it is said will send deputies to the Convention, and her example will have great weight with the other N. England States. The States from N. Ca. to N. Jersey inclusive have made their appointments, except Maryd. who has as yet only de termined that she will make them. The Gentlemen here from S. Ca. & Georgia, expect that those States will follow the general example. Upon the whole therefore it seems probable that a meeting will take place, and that it will be a pretty full one. What the issue of it will be is
