February 24,1787 117 among the other arcana of futurity and nearly as inscrutable as any of them. In general I find men of reflection much less sanguine as to a new than despondent as to the present System. Indeed the present System neither has nor deserves advocates; and if some very strong props are not applied will quickly tumble to the ground. No money is paid into the public Treasury; no respect is paid to the federal author ity. Not a single State complies with the requisitions, several pass them over in silence, and some positively reject them. The payments ever since the peace have been decreasing, and of late fall short even of the pittance necessary for the Civil list of the Confederacy. It is not possible that a Government can last long under these circumstances. If the appro [a] ching Convention should not agree on some remedy, I am persuaded that some very different arrangement will ensue. The late turbulent scenes in Massts. & infamous ones in Rhode Island, have done inexpressible injury to the republican character in that part of the U. States; and a propensity towards Monarchy is said to have been produced by it in some leading minds. The bulk of the peo ple will probably prefer the lesser evil of a partition of the Union into three more practicable and energetic Governments. The latter idea I find after long confinement to individual speculations & private cir cles, is beginning to shew itself in the Newspapers. But tho’ it is a lesser evil, it is so great a one that I hope the danger of it will rouse all the real friends to the Revolution to exert themselves in favor of such an organization of the Confederacy, as will perpetuate the Union, and redeem the honor of the Republican name. I shall follow this introductory letter with a few lines from time to time as a proper subject for them occurs. The only stipulation I exact on your part is that you will not consider them as claiming either an swers or acknowledgments; and that you will believe me to be with sin cerest wishes for your health and every other happiness Yr. Affecte. friend & servt., Js. Madison Jr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 9:294-95. 1 See the Virginia Independent Chronicle for February 28, March 7 and 14, and the Vir ginia Gazette and Weekly Advertiser for reports of Benjamin Lincoln’s suppression of the rebellion in Massachusetts. 2 See Massachusetts Delegates to James Bowdoin, February 21, note 3. 3 See Madison’s Notes of Debates and Charles Thomson to the States, February 21. North Carolina Delegates to the Board of Treasury Gentlemen, New York 24th. Feby 1787 We enclose herewith an 1 extract from an act of our Legislature
