February 26, 1787 121 their own administration. The circumstance which conduced much to decide the point was an instruction from N. York to its delegates to move in Congress for some recommendation of a Convention. The style of the instruction makes it probable that it was the wish of this State to have a new Convention instituted, rather than the one on foot recog nized. Massts. seemed also skittish on this point. Connecticut opposed the interposition of Congs, altogether. The Act of Congs, is so expressed as to cover the proceedings of the States which have already provided for the Convention without any pointed recognition of them. 2 Our situation is becoming every day more & more critical. No money comes into the federal Treasury: no respect is paid to the fed eral authority; and people of reflection unanimously agree that the existing Confederacy is tottering to its foundation. Many individuals of weight particularly in the Eastern district are suspected of leaning towards Monarchy. Other individuals predict a partition of the States into two or more Confederacies. It is pretty certain that if some radi cal amendment of the single one can not be devised and introduced that one or other of these revolutions, the latter no doubt, will take place. 1 hope you are bending your thoughts seriously to the great work of guarding agst. both. Yrs. Affely, Js. M. Jr [PS.] Inclose a Newspaper when you write & think of it. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 9:299. 1 See Charles Thomson to the States, February 21. 2 See Madison’s Notes of Debates, February 21. Virginia Delegates to Edmund Randolph Sir N York. 26th. Feby. 1787. We are sorry to inform you, that we have inquired at the board of treasury respecting the indents of interest necessary for the State under the requisition of the last year, & that the Commrs. have in formed us that from the uncertainty of the productiveness of the funds appropriated by the legislature as a compliance, they were doubtful whether they could with propriety issue them at all, but that at any rate they could not be ready in a month or six weeks from this time; so that there seems to be but little hopes that they can be thrown into circulation during the collection of the taxes. 1 A Mr. Huff from Winchester has farmed the exclusive priviledge of transporting the Mail from Alexandria to Pittsburgh for seven years and from Winchester to Staunton. On the supposition that the same person would also contract for the road from Richmond to Staunton we applied to Congress for a resolution to impower the Post Mr. Genl.
