March 4, 1787 127 Charles Thomson to the States Sir Office of Secretary of Congress, March 1st. 1787. Pursuant to order, I have the honor to transmit to Your Excellency herewith enclosed a state of the representation in Congress for the months of Deer., Jany & Feby to be communicated to the Legislature. 1 With the greatest respect &c LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 For these enclosures and the eight other monthly attendance lists sent to the states during the Congress of 1786-87, see Appendix. Massachusetts Delegates to James Bowdoin Sir, New York 4 March 1787. Mr. Williams of Pittsfield arrived in this City on the Evening of the 2d instant, with a Dispatch from Genl. Lincoln representing to the Governor of this State the Countenance and support which had been afforded, to the Fugitives from Massachusetts, by the people inhabit ing a District within this Jurisdiction & adjacent to the County of Berk shire, and giving information of the Incursion made from this State into that County on the 26th ult. 1 As your Excellency will undoubtedly have received official information of this Event before this reaches you, we forbear the communication of any particulars on that subject. The Intelligence received from Genl. Lincoln was by the Governor laid before the Legislature yesterday morning; and it is with real satis faction that we now have the Honor to inclose to your Excellency, a Resolution, which they adopted in consequence thereof. 2 Governor Clinton left this City early this morning, and will in the most Effectual & Expeditious manner cooperate with Genl. Lincoln “in apprehending & securing such of the Rebels as shall be found in this state.” 3 With perfect Respect we have the Honor to be yr. Excellency’s Obt. & very Humble Servts., Rufus King Nathan Dane RC (MHi: Shays’ Rebellion Collection). Written by King and signed by King and Dane. 1 For Gen. Benjamin Lincoln’s February 21 dispatch to Gov. George Clinton, a copy of which Lincoln enclosed with a February 22 letter to Governor Bowdoin, see Bowdoin and Temple Papers (MHS Colls.), pp. 149-50, 156-58. 2 By this March 3 resolve, the New York Assembly authorized Governor Clinton to call out the militia and to cooperate with General Lincoln against the Shaysites who had fled into New York, from which they continued to mount raids against Stockbridge,
