128 March 5, 1787 Mass., and the surrounding countryside. Journal of the Assembly of the State of New York, 10th session, p. 80. DLC(ESR). 3 Assuming personal command of the New York militia, Governor Clinton met with General Lincoln at New Lebanon, N.Y., on March 17 to complete their plans, but the insurgents, sensing their danger, withdrew to safety in Vermont and Canada and the cri sis passed. For an account of these developments and an assessment of Clinton’s leader ship against the threatened spread of rebellion to New York, see Szatmary, Shays Rebel lion, pp. 107-14; and John P. Kaminski, George Clinton. Yeoman Politician of the New Republic (Madison, Wis.: Madison House, 1993), pp. 107-9. Virginia Delegates to Edmund Randolph Si r. N. York March 5th. 1787. We have the honor of inclosing a copy of M. Van Berkel’s note to Congress respecting an act of the legislature of the State of Virginia, which he has represented to be contrary to the Treaty of amity & com merce between the United Netherlands & the United States of Amer ica. This note is referred to the Secy, for foreign affairs to report witht. their having yet giv’n any opinion on the subject. 1 The affair of the Missisippi still remains in the same critical situa tion in which it was left the last year; & their having been sevl. changes in the delegations, it is not known whether those States who favored it’s preservation the last Congress will still adhere to the same senti ments. It appears that only three States have expressly instructed their delegates as yet on this subject. 2 We have the honor to be with the highest respect yr. Excys. Most Obedt. & Very hm’ble Servts, Willm. Grayson Js. Madisonjr RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Grayson and signed by Grayson and Madison. 1 The copy of Pieter Johan van Berckel’s February 20 “note” to Congress which had been sent under a February 20 covering letter by John Jay is in the Continental Con gress Papers, Vi. The originals, with a translation from the French by John Pintard, are in PCC, item 99, fols. 273-84. For the background of this issue, see Madison to Ran dolph, February 18, notes 6 and 7. On March 1 Congress had referred van Berckel’s note to Jay, but his March 14 report, comprising a close analysis of the French and Dutch treaties, the Virginia fiscal act, and Congress’ treaty authority under Article VI of the Confederation, was not taken up until August 2 when it was referred to a committee of five chaired by Nathan Dane. Pre sented to Congress September 24, the committee’s report ratified Jay’s findings by as serting the supremacy of foreign treaties, declaring the Virginia act granting a duty ex emption to French, but not Dutch, brandies unconstitutional, and recommending that it be revised. On October 13 Congress adopted Jay’s report and resolved that “whenever any of these States shall think proper to grant a favour to any foreign Nation such State ought to extend it to such other foreign Nations as by treaties with the United States are to be treated as the most favoured Nation.” It further resolved that copies of the above resolution be sent to van Berckel and to Governor Randolph, recommending revision
