March 8, 1787 133 State to the free and common Navigation of the Mississipi, and in case any such surrender should take place, that they should be in structed to protest against the same, as an unjust depravation of the right of this State, and one which Congress are not authorized to make by the articles of confederation.” This arose from this additional circumstance. {Seven states}^ only {counting from the east have repealed the article in favor of the Mis- sisipi in the instructions to} Mr. (Jay and he} is now at full liberty to {shut up or not the Mississipi} and he appears to me to approve of it for the {period of twenty years}. Should this take place, I know not what consequences may ensue. Our Western citizens will feel much alarmed for their situation. They will have less {confidence in the jus tice of Congress} and be disposed to {carve} for {themselves}. They are already numerous and daily increasing. For a {violation of a treaty Congress would be immediately responsible}—And probably our west ern citizens might {skirmish for some years without bringing about an open rupture and within eight or ten we would be able to support our right. What can be done? You may eventually be able to do some thing}. If the French court had the Floridas and would establish an entrepot at New-Orleans or some other place equally convenient on a liberal scale, it would certainly be of the first consequence to them, in a commercial point of view, as we should consume their manufactures principally, in return for the raw materials which we could supply them with in abundance. With Spain somthing could be done if we had a man of great abilities and prudence at Madrid there to treat; here I am sure we have nothing to hope as I conjecture Mr. Gardoqui has duped himself and consequently given such an impression of things here as to lead his court to be very sanguine in their expecta tions. And {he does not appear to me to be a man of a noble mind enough to acknowledge his error} and to give that true complexion which he has certainly learnt to discover. I have used the cypher of our friend Mr. Madison. He, expecting shortly an opportunity more certain than the present, postpones writ ing untill then, and he presents you his most respectful compliments. Your acquaintance Mr. Nash is dead and I am in Congress in his stead. I am with sincere esteem & regard & Friendship, Dear Sir, your most obedient & hl. Servt., Benjamin Hawkins RC (DLC:Jefferson Papers). 1 See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 10:240-41. 2 That is, the French consul general in New York, for whom see William Blount to Richard Caswell, December 30, 1786, note 1. 3 For this “Vocabulary,” see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 11:203. 4 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Hawkins in cipher.
