March 11, 1787 139 standing these favorable accounts there is reason to apprehend that every thing is not yet right in Massts. and that the discontents are rather silenced than subdued. The measures taken by the Legisla ture of that state prove that such is their view of the matter. They have disfranchized a considerable proportion of the disaffected vot ers, have voted a military force for the purpose of maintaining the tranquility of the Commonwlth, and their Delegates in pursuance of instructions have within a few days put on the Journals of Congs, a representation including an assertion of right to federal support in case of necessity. 2 The appointments for the Convention are still going on. Georgia has appointed her delegates to Congs, her representatives in that body also. The Gentlemen from that State here at present are Col. Few, and Majr. Pierce formerly Aid to Genl. Green. I am told just now that S. C. has appointed the two Rutledges and Majr. Butler. Col Hamilton, with a Mr. Yates and a Mr. Lansing are appointed by N. York. The two latter are supposed to lean too much towards State con siderations to be good members of an Assembly which will only be useful in proportion to its superiority to partial views & interests. Massts. has also appointed. Messrs Ghorum, Dana, King, Gerry & Strong compose her deputation. The Resolution under which they are appointed restrains them from acceding to any departure from the principle of the 5th article of Confederation. It is conjectured that this fetter which originated with their Senate, will be knocked off. Its being introduced at all denotes a very different spirit in that quarter from what some had been led to expect. 3 Connecticut it is now gener ally believed will come into the measure. Nothing has been yet done in the principal business before Con gress, and I fear the number of States will not increase so far as to be competent to it. The Negociations with Spain are carried on if they {go on at all} 4 entirely {behind the curtain}. The business has been put into such a form that it rests wholly {with Jay how far he will proceed with Guardoqui} and how far {he will communicate with Congress}. The instructed States are hence {under some embarrasment}. They can not demand information {of right}. They are unwilling by asking it {of favour to risk a refusal} and they cannot resort to the present thin Congs, with any hope of success. Should Congs, become pretty full, and {Pennsylvania} follow N. C., Virga. & N. Jersey, in giving instruc tions, the {case may be altered}. Adieu. Js. M. [RS.] We have just agreed that the delegates here shall in future write individually and in rotation to the Executive. You will please to consider this which I had written before the rule was fixed as a pri vate letter, in the light of a public one so far as it may deserve com munication to the Board, not however depositing it among their public papers.
