142 March 12, 1787 them by omitting paper money—that it would only tend to increase them by incouraging idleness and discouraging industry.” This turn of affairs in Maryland we must consider as fortunate—evidence that the people possess Just ideas. Few things happen here out of the Common Course—and we all dear Sir, look, for information from the part of the Country you live in—if you can find a leisure hour I must request the favor that you will continue to inform us of such things as may happen & which you may think of importance &c. Your affecte. freind, N. Dane RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 Not identified. 2 See Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 4:112-18, 126-41. 3 See Massachusetts Delegates to James Bowdoin, March 4, note 3. Arthur St. Clair to James Wilson Dear Sir New York March 12th. 1787 Do not ascribe it either to neg fleet or] want of Freindship that I have not written [to] you at an earlier day in any thing that respec [ts] you neither One nor other of these will ever have Place, tho I am sen sible I may have exposed myself to the Suspicion. If my continuing as a security for the Sum I endorsed a Note for will be any manner of Service to you, I am willing to do so, and ready to renew it in the manner it now stands or to put it into any other Shape that may be most useful, at any time that it may be des[ired.] I have been turning in my Mind [the state] of the Lands you men tioned that you intended to [give] as a Security for your part of the Debts of your late unfortunate Partnership and been making Enquiries here from Persons that I believe competent Judges of the value of Lands situated as yours [are,] the Result of which has been that they would [be] a very ample Security for a much greater Sum provided there was not a necessity of very suddenly converting them into Money. When their Situation, all either upon the Delaware or having an easy communication with it and by it to the City of Philadelphia together with the Settlements that are already formed and the moral certainty of their rapid progression it is taken into consideration it is clear to al most a Demonstration that their value must encrease more rapidly than any other Species of property whatsoever—indeed I presume if they were to be sold even now and time given for the payment they [wou]ld sell for much more Money, tho the Case might be otherwise if ofered for ready Money only, for in that Case they must fall into the hands of monied Men who purchase only with a view to the encreasing
