144 March 13, 1787 That if Congress were disposed to treat with Spain on the ground of a Cession of the Mississpi, it would be out of their power to enforce the treaty—that an attempt would be the means of populating the western Country with additional rapidity—that the British had their eye upon that field, would countenance the separation of the Western from the Eastern part of N. A; promote the settlement of it, and here after be able to turn the force springing up in that quarter agst. Span ish America, in co-operation with their naval armaments—that Spain offered nothing in fact to the U.S. in the commercial scale which she did not grant to all other nations from motives of interest. Mr. Guardoqui would not listen to the idea of a right to the naviga tion of Mississpi by the U.S. contending that the possession of the two banks at the mouth shut the door agst. any such pretension. Spain never would give up this point. He lamented that he had been here so long without effecting any thing: and foresaw that the consequences would be very disagreeable. What wd. these consequences be? He evaded an answer by repeating general expressions. Spain could make her own terms he said with G.B. He considered the Commercial con nection proposed as entirely in favor of the U.S. & that in a little time the ports of Spain wd. be shut agst. fish. He was asked whether agst. all fish or only agst. fish from U.S.: from all places not in treaty he said with Spain. Spain would act according to her own ideas. She would not be governed by other people’s ideas of her interest. He was very sorry for the instructions passed by Va. He foresaw bad consequences from them. 2 He had written to soften the matter as well as he cd. but that troops & stores wd. certainly reinforce N. Orleans in consequence of the Resolutions. He had not conferred at all with the Minister of For. Af. since Octr. and did not expect to confer again. He did not expect to remain much longer in America. He wished he might not be a true prophet, but it would be found that we mistook our interest, and that Spain wd. make us feel the vulnerable side of our commerce by abridging it in her ports. With an air of ostensible jocoseness he hinted that the people of Kentucky would make good Spanish subjects, and that they would be come such for the sake of the privilege annexed to that character. He seemed to be disposed to make us believe that Spain & Britain understood one another—that he knew the views of G. B. in holding the western posts—and that Spain had it in her power to make G. B. bend to her views. He affected a misterious air on this point, which 3 led to a supposition that [he] doubted what to say on it. He intimated that Spain could not grant any inlet of the American trade by Treaty, but that in case of a treaty, trade thro’ the Mississippi as well as other channels wd. be winked at.
