March 13, 1787 145 In speaking of the Mississpi and the right of Spain he alluded to the case of the Tagus which Spain had never pretended to a right of navi gating thro’ Portugal. It was observed to him that in estimating the rights of Nations in such cases regard must be had to their respective proportions of territory on the River. Suppose Spain held only 5 Acres on each side at the mouth of Missipii wd. she pretend to an exclusive right in such case? He said that was not the Case; Spain had a great proportion. How much? After some confusion & hesitation he sd. she claimed at least as far as the Ohio. We smiled, & asked how far Eastwardly from the Mispi. He became still more at a loss for an an swer, & turned it off by insinuating that he had conversed on that mat ter with the Secretary of F. Affairs. He was reminded of the doctrine maintained by Spain in 1608, as to the Scheid. 4 He seemed not [to] have known the fact, and resolved it into some political consideration of the times. He was asked whether the partition of the B. Empire could deprive this part of it, of the rights appertaining to the King of G. B. as King of this Country—and even whether the rupture of G. B. & Spain could deprive, injustice, the U.S. of Rights which they held under the Treaty of 1763 whilst they remained a part of the British Empire? Whether in case no such rupture had happened, the Treaty 5 would have been dis solved by the Revolution? &c &c. He did not seem well to understand the principles into which such questions resolved themselves—and gave them the go by, referring the claim of Spain principally to her conquests of the British possessions in N. America. He betrayed strongly the anxiety of Spain to retard the population of the Western Country; observing that when ever sufficient force should arise therein, it wd. be impossible for it [to] be controuled: That any conciliating measures that might be taken now, would have little effect on their temper & views 50 or 100 years hence when they should be in force. When we rose to take leave, he begged us to remember what he had said as to the inflexibility of Spain on the point of the Mississippi and the consequences to America of her adherence to her present pretensions. 6 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 9:309-11. 1 For William Grayson's March 8 motion and the lengthy report of Henry Knox read this day, see JCC, 32:85, 109-14. 2 For resolutions apparently drafted by Madison and passed by the Virginia assembly on November 29, 1786, reaffirming American rights to navigate the Mississippi, see Madison, Papers (Rutland), 9:181-84. 3 At a later time Madison struck out the remainder of this sentence and interlined “only proved that he was at a loss what to say to the probability and tendency of a con nection between G.B. & the western settlements, in case the Mississpi sd. be given up by Congs.” 4 That is, Spain’s prior claim to free navigation of the Scheldt River, which was held at its mouth by the United Provinces of the Netherlands.
