146 March 13, 1787 5 At this point Madison later interlined “between Spain & that part of the Empire.” 6 For a subsequent interview between the Virginia delegates and the Spanish minister which ranged broadly over “the Western Country & the Mississpi,” see Madison’s Notes on Debates, March 29. Immediately following this entry Madison wrote “Nothing worth noting till Teusday March 20,” although he later struck out “worth noting” and substituted “noted.” Arthur St. Clair’s Notes for a Speech in Congress [March 13, 1787] 1 The Cultivation of a strict Friendship with Port[ugal] seems to me an Object from which considerable Advantages to the united States would flow—and a commercial Treaty upon proper Principles is the most likely mode to secure those Advantages—but I do not conceive it is to be effected by sending a Resident to that Court. When Courts send Men in public Characters to the Courts of other Nations they have two Objects in view. As a testimony of their Respect and watch over their Interests either as the [y] stand upon the ground of particu lar Treaties or the general Law of Nations. For those purposes a Resi dent, an Envoy, an Ambassador are proper and Competent but for ef fecting a Treaty plenipotentiary Powers are necessary—with whatever Character then you invest the Person who may be sent to P. if a Treaty is the principal Design with full Powers for that purpose he must be cloathed. If the Expence is an Objection to sending a Minister—send a Person with Powers to effect the Treaty who after its Ratification shall take upon him the Character of a Minister, make the usual Compli ments, return to his Country and be succeeded by a charge des Affairs. MS (O: St. Clair Papers). In the hand of Arthur St. Clair. 1 St. Clair apparently delivered these undated remarks this day during debate on a re port of the secretary for foreign affairs, John Jay, on the expediency of establishing an agent or consul at Lisbon, Portugal. Jay’s report had been prompted by a February 20 letter from the American agent at Madiera, John Marsden Pintard. Pintard, who had been on leave in New York and was on the point of returning to Madiera, had recom mended that Congress extend his “Agency” to include the port of Lisbon, adding that he would serve there, as he had in Madeira, without “any pecuniary Compensation or salary.” Although expressing a preference for having “a Resident or Minister with con sular Powers” at Lisbon, Jay essentially endorsed Pintard’s recommendation, and Con gress resolved March 13 “That a commercial Agent to reside at the Port of Lisbon be ap pointed.” Monday, March 19 was assigned for filling the post, but no appointment was made. See JCC, 32:78, 88-90, 108; and PCC, item 78, 18:623-24. Congress’ general paralysis in the conduct of foreign affairs during this period was also reflected in its failure to settle the claims of Arnold Henry Dohrman, the United States agent at Lisbon during the war, who was still owed more than $25,000 for dis-
