March 18, 1787 149 copy of the inclosed as I wished to do for myself, I must ask the favor of your amanuensis to perform that task for me. The appointments for the Convention go on very successfully. Since the date of my last, Georgia, S. Carolina, N. York, Massts. & N. Hamshire have come into the measure. Georgia & N. Hampshire have constituted their Delegates in Congs, their representatives in the Con vention. S. Carolina has appointed Mr. J. Rutlidge, Genl. Pinkney, Mr. Laurens, Major Butler, and Mr. Chs. Pinkney late a member of Congs. The deputies of Massts. are Mr. Dana, Mr. King, Mr. Ghoram, Mr. Gerry, Mr. Strong. I am told that a Resolution of the Legislature of this State which originated with their Senate lays its deputies under the fetter of not departing from the 5th of the present articles of Con federation. As this Resolution passed before the Recommendatory act of Congress was known, it is conjectured that it may be rescinded; but its having passed at all denotes a much greater prevalence of political jealousy in that quarter than had been imagined. 2 The deputation of N. York consists of Col. Hamilton, Judge Yates and a Mr. Lansing. The two last are said to be pretty much linked to the antifederal party here and are likely of course to be a clog on their Colleague. It is not doubted now that Connecticut & R. Island will avoid the singularity of being unrepresented in the Convention. The thinness of Congs, has been an obstacle to all the important business before them. At present there are nine States on the ground but this number, though adequate to every object when unanimous, makes a very slow progress in business that requires seven States only. And I see little prospect of the number being increased. By our latest and most authentic information from Massts. it would seem that a calm has been restored by the expedition of Genl. Lin coln. The precautions taking by the State however betray a great dis trust of its continuance. Besides their act disqualifying the malcon tents from voting in the election of members for the Legislature &c. another has been passed for raising a corps of 1000 or 1,500 men, and appropriating the choicest revenues of the Country, to its support. It is said that at least half of the insurgents decline accepting the terms annexed to the amnesty, and that this defiance of the law agst. Trea son, is countenanced not only by the impunity with which they shew themselves on public occasions, even with insolent badges of their character, but by marks of popular favor conferred on them in various instances in the election to local offices. A proposition has been introduced & discussed in the Legislature of this State, for relinquishing its claim to Vermont, and urging the admission of it into the Confederacy. 4 As far as I can learn difficulties will arise only in settling the form, the substance of the measures being not disliked by any of the parties. It is wished by those who are not interested in claims to lands within that district to guard agst. any
