150 March 18, 1787 responsibility in the State for compensation. On the other side it will at least be insisted that they shall not be barred of the privilege of car rying their claims before a federal Court, in case Vermont shall be come a party to the Union. I think it probable if she should not de cline becoming such altogether, that she will make two conditions if not more: 1. that neither her boundaries, nor the rights of her citizens shall be impeachable under the 9th art. of Confederation. 5 2. that no share of the public debt already contracted shall be allotted to her. I have a letter from Col. Jno. Campbel dated at Pittsburg, from wch. I gather that the people of that quarter are thrown into great agitation by the reported intention of Congs, concerning the Mississippi, and that measures are on foot, for uniting the minds of all the different settlements which have a common interest at stake. Should this policy take effect I think there is much ground to apprehend that the ambi tion of individuals will quickly mix itself with the first impulses of re sentment and interest, that by degrees the people may be led to set up for themselves, that they will slide like Vermont insensibly into a com munication and latent connection with their British neighbours, and in pursuance of the same example, make such a disposition of the Western territory as will entice into it most effectually emigrants from all parts of the Union. If these apprehensions be not imaginary they suggest many observations extremely interesting to Spain as well as to the United States. I hear from Richmond with much concern that Mr. Henry has posi tively declined his mission to Philada. Besides the loss of his services on that theatre, there is danger I fear that this step has proceeded from a wish to leave his conduct unfettered on another theatre where the result of the Convention will receive its destiny from his omnipo tence. With every sentiment of esteem & affection I remain, Dear Sir, Your Obedt. and very hble Servt., Js. Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 9:314-16. 1 That is, Benjamin Hawkins of North Carolina who had been appointed one of five commissioners to negotiate with the southern Indians, for which see these Letters, 22:287, 293. 2 See Madison to Edmund Randolph, March 11, note 3. 3 Hard on the heels of its February 4 declaration of rebellion, the Massachusetts Gen eral Court authorized the enlistment of up to 2,600 additional troops to suppress fur ther uprisings and subsequently passed a Disqualification Act banning the insurgents from, among other things, voting, officeholding, and jury duty. But Benjamin Lincoln had yet to restore “calm” and the insurgents remained active throughout the spring. See Szatmary, Shays' Rebellion, pp. 106—19. See also Massachusetts Delegates to James Bowdoin, February 21 and March 4. 4 See Nathan Dane to Timothy Dwight, March 12, note 2. 5 That is, the provision in the second paragraph that made Congress the final author ity in resolving “all disputes and differences... between two or more states concerning boundary, jurisdiction or any other cause whatever.” See JCC, 19:218.
