152 March 19, 1787 rized to fill vacancies. The Governor, Mr. Wythe & Mr. Blair will at tend, and some hopes are entertained of Col. Mason’s attendance. Genl. Washington has prudently authorized no expectations of his at tendance, but has not either precluded himself absolutely from step ping into that field if the crisis should demand it. What may be the re sult of this political experiment cannot be foreseen. The difficulties which present themselves are on one side almost sufficient to dismay the most sanguine, whilst on the other side the most timid are com pelled to encounter them by the mortal diseases of the existing consti tution. These diseases need not be pointed out to you who so well un derstand them. Suffice it to say that they are at present marked by symptoms which are truly alarming, which have tainted the faith of the most orthodox republicans, and which challenge from the votaries of liberty every concession in favor of stable Government not infringing fundamental principles, as the only security against an op posite extreme of our present situation. I think myself that it will be expedient in the first place to lay the foundation of the new system in such a ratification by the people themselves of the several States as will render it clearly paramount to their Legislative authorities. 2dly. Over & above the positive power of regulating trade and sundry other mat ters in which uniformity is proper, to arm the federal head with a neg ative in all cases whatsoever on the local Legislatures. Without this de fensive power experience and reflection have satisfied me that however ample the federal powers may be made, or however Clearly their boundaries may be delineated, on paper, they will be easily and continually baffled by the Legislative sovereignties of the States. The effects of this provision would be not only to guard the national rights and interests against invasion, but also to restrain the States from thwarting and molesting each other, and even from oppressing the minority within themselves by paper money and other unrighteous measures which favor the interest of the majority. In order to render the exercise of such a negative prerogative convenient, an emanation of it must be vested in some set of men within the several States so far as to enable them to give a temporary sanction to laws of immediate necessity. 3dly. to change the principle of Representation in the fed eral system. Whilst the execution of the Acts of Congs, depends on the several legislatures, the equality of votes does not destroy the inequal ity of importance and influence in the States. But in case of such an augmentation of the federal power as will render it efficient without the intervention of the Legislatures, a vote in the general Councils from Delaware would be of equal value with one from Massts. or Vir ginia. This change therefore is just. I think also it will be practicable. A majority of the States conceive that they will be gainers by it. It is rec ommended to the Eastern States by the actual superiority of their populousness, and to the Southern by their expected superiority. And
