162 March 19, 1787 Comptroler accordingly which will be most gratefully acknowledged by, Sir, Your most obedient, humble servant, Ar. St. Clair RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Pa. Archives, Istser. 11:127-28. 1 See Pa. Council Minutes, 15:168-69; and St. Clair to John Nicholson, January 30, note. 2 The details of St. Clair’s fate are not known, but notwithstanding this appeal the Council removed him from his position as “Auctioneer for the city of Philadelphia” on April 13. Pa. Council Minutes, 15:183, 197. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Teusday March 20 [1787] Mr. Jay’s Report on Treaty of peace taken up. 1 Mr. Yates objected to the 1st Resoln, which declares the Treaty to be a law of the land. 2 He said the States or at least his State did not admit it to be such till cloathed with legal sanction. At his request he was fur nished with a copy of the Resolution for the purpose of consulting such as he might chuse. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rudand), 9:326. 1 For John Jay’s lengthy report of October 13, 1786, see JCC, 31:781-874. 2 Jay had proposed three resolutions at the close of his report, the first of which speci fied “That the legislatures of the several States cannot of right pass any Act or Acts for in terpreting, explaining or construing a National treaty, or any part or Clause of it; nor for restraining, limiting or in any manner impeding, retarding or counteracting the opera tion or execution of the same; for that on being constitutionally made, ratified and pub lished, they become, in virtue of the Confederation, part of the law of the land, and are not only independent of the will and power of such Legislatures, but also binding and obligatory on them.” See ibid., pp. 869—70; and Charles Thomson to the States, April 13. North Carolina Delegates to John Gray Blount Dear Sir, [New] York March 20th 1787 We this day forward by Post in the Washington Mail, Articles of Agreement entered into between the Delegates in Congress from No. Carolina & Constable, Rucker & Co for the sale and Purchase of the Public Tobacco together with Copies of all the Letters that the Delega tion have written or received respecting the said Tobacco, 1 the whole making a large Package and is addressed to your C[are]. As the Time comm[ences] in thir[ty d]ays from the date of [the] Contract (say from the 16th Instant) for the Delivery of the Tobacco, We request that you will forward the said Packett to the Governor by Express with out delay, who will pay the Express the Price you may agree for on the Delivery of the Packet. We are with much esteem
