March 22, 1787 167 eral Applications to the Government of the Island, for Advances of Money to defray the Expences of that Department. I became personally answerable for a Part of them, & as the Gov ernment had no Authority to make these Loans, I engaged to blend their Claims with my own, in my general Account of Demands against the United States, & be responsible to them for the Propor tion I might recover. I mentioned this Arrangement to the Committee of Congress who had the Settlement of my Accounts, & with their Approbation in serted the Amount of the Supplies of the French Government, which were precisely of the Same Nature as those I had myself made in Mar- tinico, & in different Parts of the United States. In Consequence of Applications made to Congress & the Superin tendant of Finance, I received Several Sums on Account of my De mands, the principal Part of which was paid to me a Short Time be fore my Departure for Europe, in Bills of Exchange. I transmitted them to France, & on my Arrival, found that they had been accepted & paid. I applied to the Marquis de Bouille who had been Governor of Mar- tinico, at the Time the Advances were made to me, to know with whom I Should account for what was recovered for the French Gov ernment. He gave me a Letter to the Marechal de Castries, to whose Department this Transaction belonged, & who had received from Mons, de Marbois a particular Specification of the Sums paid to me on that Account. The Marechal referred me to Mons Dufresne, the Intendant of the Revenues of the Marine, with whom I made a Settle ment, after exhibiting a State of the Account, & which by his Letter, appears was approved of, by the Marechal de Castries. It was effected by drawing Bills of Exchange, payable at Martinico for a part, & giving an Obligation to procure a Credit on the Books of the Treasury for the Ballance, in favor of the Government. In complying with my Engagement in the Transfer of this Credit, it will be expedient to change the Form of the Certificate that evidences the Claim, & make the Amount payable in France, as I am informed this would be more agreable to the French Government. As their Arrangement can involve no possible Consequences preju dicial to the Interests of the United States, (as all its Engagements are equally binding) it is expected there can be no Objection, especially as there are Several Precedents of its having been done, even in favor of Individuals. The Inducement must be much Stronger in favor of a Government, to whom we are under Such obligations. A Refusal might not only be deemed invidious, but would be at tended with Inferences of an inauspicious Nature, as affecting the Credit of the Domestic Debt, & would reasonably alarm the numerous
