March 25, 1787 171 he must account with you for the whole sum in actual specie at a dis count of no more than one and an half per cent—for Platt will take all the risque upon himself. I repeat it, he would not do business in this way but to oblige you; as paper payments are slow here compared to specie payments, which are checked by the Bank. No doubt but the funds upon which this bill was drawn will account with Mr. Rutledge, & so with you, for the par of Exchange in the mode of payment, being in [pape]r, at three per cent, so that you may [gain?] instead of loosing upon the whole. As I am now upon the topic of business, permit me to assure you that I have taken a most serious part in a matter which is much more interesting to you than the foregoing detail. Upon this head, I have conversed pretty fully with Colo. Wadsworth, & have written to him upon the subject. The Project we have agreed upon is very practica ble; the only thing that grieves me is that it may not be ripe for execu tion, while I shall have it in my power in Congress, to convince you how much I am ever devoted to your happiness. God bless you, my dearest friend, & permit me in the felicity of being, most devotedly, your very obedt. & most humble servant, J M Varnum RC (CSmH: HM 8153). Addressed: “Mrs. Caty Greene, East Greenwich.” 1 Not found. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry My Dr. Friend, New York 25. March 1787 My opinion relative to our friend in the Treasury Board 1 was well founded, there is no probability of a vacancy there; & at present I see nothing sufficiently valueable to mention to you. Congress have it in contemplation, or more accurately speaking, many Gentlemen appear to be impressed with the propriety of a project to establish a board with very extensive powers finally to settle the accounts between the States. Should the States unite in this measure, the characters will nec essarily be of the first rank, and consequence; and I am confident that you would be thought of, provided you could be obtained. Some Time since congress determined to erect a board; but as the powers did not exceed those wh. the late commissioners possessed, the plan has been objected to, and is now under consideration with a view of establishing something, which will be more decisive and expeditious. 2 I am per suaded that on this, and every other subject, in which you can have any interest, that you will not doubt the sincerity of my disposition to unite with your wishes, and to exert myself for their accomplishment. I there fore intreat you to suggest to me any Ideas which you may entertain on
