172 March 25, 1787 this subject, at the same Time assuring you, that you can do it with all the confidence of the most inviolable Freindship. I yesterday eat Fish with Mr. Thompson together with Doctr. John son & Mr. Harrison; Col Hamilton was to have been with us, but something I presume of consequence detained him. Miss Helen did the honors of the Table with great propriety. We spent some hours after Dinner in examining the Bills & answers in Mr. Thompson’s Chancery suits—and on the whole, the Gentlemen seemed to unite in Opinion that the suits stand well in favor of the Complainants; sev eral articles charged in the Bill for the recovery of Mr. Thompsons paternal fortune, although not very material, are completely an swered by the other party—but the most essential, and indeed the only important Charges of the Bill remain, in my Judgment, unsatis factorily answered. I think each of the Gentlemen is with me, in this Opinion. There has been much Time already consumed and no decree; I think it is not improbable that considerable Time must yet elapse before final decree with safety be urged in the Bill for the paternal Fortune. Excep tion must be formed to some of the answers in order to draw out a more complete view than at present is exhibited. I was pleased with Mr. Harrison and he appears to me to understand and to be well disposed in the cause. You informed me some Time since of the unfortunate situ ation of Mr Dana—pray tell me, is he in a way of a complete recovery? I think that misfortune is not only a severe private one, but a real and im portant cause of public concern. Will Mr Strong attend the convention, if Mr. Dana does not, who will be appointed in his place? How goes Electioneering? Hancock has written a Letter to Knox informing him that he shall be here shortly and requests him to procure him Lodgings. What is the meaning of this movement? Farewel, R King 3 RC (NHi: King Papers). 1 That is, treasury commissioner Samuel Osgood. 2 The ordinance adopted October 13, 1786, for settling “all Accounts between the United States and individual States” had failed to advance the work substantially, and King, along with Lambert Cadwalader, Abraham Clark, James Madison, and Charles Pinckney, had been appointed February 15 to a committee charged with planning the ordinance’s repeal. The committee did little beyond submitting a motion, which was adopted on March 29, charging the board of treasury with preparation of a new ordi nance. The board's new plan, which was reported April 18, was adopted May 7. See JCC, 32:60n, 141, 206-9, 258-66; and PCC, item 19, fol. 137. 3 King also wrote the following brief letter to Gerry on March 16. “Permit me to make you and your amiable Mrs. Gerry acquainted with the bearer Mr. Bleecker; he will pass some short Time in Boston, and 1 should be sorry that he should return without seeing you at Cambridge. His agreeable manners & Conversation will recommend him more forcibly than any words I can make use of.” King Papers, NHi.
