March 27, 1787 175 FC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rudand), 9:331-32. 1 For which see ibid., pp. 301, 303-4. 2 At this point in the manuscript, Madison later inserted an asterisk to which he keyed the following clarification: ‘Jay’s project for shutting the Mississippi for 25 years.” 3 See Hening, Statutes, 12:256. 4 See William Blount to Richard Caswell, January 28, note 6. 5 See Madison’s Notes of Debates, March 20 and 21. For John Jay’s “circular address,” see Charles Thomson to the States, April 13. Lambert Cadwalader to Samuel Meredith Dr Meredith 1 N York 27 March 1787. Yours of the 19 with the Inclosures I have reed.—the latter were im mediately sent to Mrs Bibbi & Miss Kemble. Tell Miss M 11 I shall always be happy to receive her Commands wh shall be executed with as much Punctuality as any State Affair whatever. On Friday last we reduced the Expences of the civil List. The Ex- pences of the Presidt. are limited to 8,000 Dllrs, includg every thing even the Salaries of his private Secretary & Steward. Jay’s is cut down to 3500 from 4000, Thompsons is lowerd 400. The Commissrs. of the Treasury 2000 each & the Clerks in the several Offices are all reduced &c so that the Savings will be 25,000 Dllrs per Ann. at least. 2 Bingham & Irwin will leave Congress in a few Days. I think it proba ble that Congress will shortly adjourn to some Time in the Summer— but if a certain Point cannot be carrd. it will be postponed for some Time with a View of effecting the Measure. I shall go Home in a few Days &, after staying to arrange my Business set out for Dagworthy’s Estate. I am afraid I shall lose my Head-Man on the Farm, Sam. At any Rate he will be unfit for Service for some Time and I must request the Favor of you to look out for a good Plowman for me—if you should meet with such a one, an honest industrious Fellow let me know & the Wages he asks per month & I will send you an Answer. The Season ap proaches fast & my Time will not be long at Trenton. My Love to Peggy the Childrn & my mother’s Family & compts. to Messrs Clymer & Fitzsimmons. Danbury, the bondsman, McKerchen, Fish & Jones desire their Compts. Yours &c, LC [PS.] Inclosed you have declaratory Resolutions of Congress relative to the exclusive Right of this Body to explain, interpret or construe a national Treaty & proposing the Repeal of the obnoxious Acts in the sev[era]l States relative to the Treaties we have enter’d into with for eign. 3 These Resolutions are Consequences drawn from very elabo rate Reasonings in Jay’s Report on Lord Caermarthen’s Letter relative to Infractions of the late Treaty of Peace with G Britain.
