178 March 27, 1787 Arthur St. Clair to John Wendell Sir, 1 New York March 27th. 1787 I have now the honor to enclose to you a Letter from Mr. Horn blower which came enclosed to me in consequence of the last I wrote to him 2 covering yours, and I shall always be happy to embrace any Opportunity of rendering you any Civility in my power. When convenient for you I should be obliged to you for a short State of the Claims you mention, to property in this Place, for, tho’ I know that they are considerable, 1 am very little accquainted with them, and if I had some Clue, I might while here, obtain some useful Information. Mr. Bayard some time before his Death put into my Hands, a number of Memorandums relative to his Rights, but in the various Movements of my Family, during the Invasions of Pennsylva nia, they were unfortunately lost and I have lost the recollection of them. One thing however relative to the property you mention has lately come to my knowledge by mere accident, which it may be proper for you to know, and guard against if it is not well founded. A Mr. J. P. Wendel of Albany has set up a Claim as Heir at Law, being, as he alledges, the immediate descendant of the elder Branch of your Family, 3 and is endeavouring to sell his Right, not being in Circum stances to enter into a legal Contest with the present Possessors. I have Reason to think he would be satisfied with a moderate Compensation, and, I am told, wishes to sell to some of the Family. 4 I should have done myself the pleasure to inform you earlier of that Circumstance, had I not been in daily Expectation of seeing Coll. Long. If he is not yet set out, be so obliging to present him my best Respects and believe me with great Regard, Dear Sir, Your most obedi ent Servant, Ar. St. Clair RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1907). Addressed: “The honblejohn Wendel Esqr. at Portsmouth.” 1 Wendell (1731-1808) was born and raised in Boston, graduated from Harvard Col lege in 1750, and moved to Portsmouth soon after to engage in trade, but gradually be came involved in real estate “and in time he built up a profitable business as a con veyancer and dealer in land." Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 12:592, 597. 2 St. Clair’s letter to Josiah Hornblower has not been found, and nothing on the sub ject of their correspondence has been discovered beyond the information contained in the present letter. 8 For the Albany roots of the “elder Branch” of the Wendell family, see Shipton, Har vard Graduates, 12:218; and James R. Stanwood, ‘The Direct Ancestry of the Late Jacob Wendell, of Portsmouth, N.H.,” New England Historical and Genealogical Register 36 (July 1882): 246-50. 4 St. Clair returned to this subject in the following letter to Wendell dated “May 20, 1787, N York.” “I have been favoured with your Letter enclosing a geneological Account of your Family, and a Bill on Mr Temple, and have to ask pardon for not replying sooner. I thank you for the Account you have given me, by which it plainly appears there can be
