202 April 4, 1787 William Irvine to Congress Sir New York April 4th 1787 Having observed that an extra allowance has been generally made to Officers on seperate Commands, I applied to the Commissioner of Army accounts to settle with me for the time I Commanded at Fort Pitt, but find he has it not in his power; for notwithstanding he has done it in almost every instance yet he has been authorised so to do, by special orders or Resolutions—except to Major Generals. There are existing Resolutions in favor of Brigadier General Howe 15th April 1777, Moultrie the 13th May 1779, and the 8th May 1781 To the Commanding General at West point for the time being. 1 I have reason to think General McIntosh has been settled with in the State of Georgia, which will of course be charged to the United States, but of this I am not certain. Claims of sundry inferior Officers in similar cases have also been allowed. Permit me to assure your Excellency and the honorable members, that I would not give you this trouble, if I did not consider my claim founded in strict Justice, and sanctioned by precidents—as I conceive in every other instance no Officer that I know of who Commanded in seperate departments, but what have been settled with. If therefore Congress view my claim in the same light, I hope they will be pleased to order their Commissioner to settle with me on the same principle he has in all other cases been directed to settle with Officers of the same rank when Commanding in seperate departments. 2 I have the honor to be, with the greatest respect, Your Excellencys Most Obedient Humble Servant, Wm. Irvine RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Addressed: “His Excellency the President of Congress.” 1 For these resolutions, see JCC, 7:269-70, 14:586, 20:488-89. 2 Irvine’s letter was submitted on April 9 to the commissioner of army accounts, John Pierce, whose report was referred on April 11 to a committee consisting of James M. Varnum, Rufus King, and Melancton Smith. The committee’s report, which recom mended that Pierce allow Irvine “such sum as, from a fair representation of his ex- pences during his command at Fort Pitt, may appear to him reasonable," was submitted and adopted by Congress April 12. See JCC, 32:167n, 173-75. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Monday April 2d [i.e., Wednesday, April 4, 1787] 1 Mr. Pierce renewed his motion instructing the Secy, of F. A. to lay before Congs, the state of his negociation with Mr. Guardoqui which was agreed to without observation or dissent. 2
