206 April 7, 1787 Rhode Island Delegates to George Clinton Sir, Newyork 7th April 1787. The undersigned, Delegates of the state of Rhode Island in the congress of the United States, complain to your Excellency of a publi cation in a news paper, called “the daily advertiser: political, historical and commercial,” dated upon the sixth of April instant, and printed by Francis Childs in this City. The publication begins, “Quintessence of villainy: or proceedings of the Legislature of the State of Rhode Is land, at their late Session.” Then the printer assumes a narrative of those proceedings as extracted from the Newport Herald of March 22d. This daring insult to a Sovereign State, they consider as the most scan[da]lous of Libels, and therefore request you[r] Excellency to cause the said Francis Childs to be reprehended agreably to the laws of the State over which you preside. 1 With the most perfect consideration, They have the honor of being, your Excellency’s most obedient, & very humble servants, J M Varnum Peleg Arnold RC (N: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Written by James M. Varnum and signed by Var num and Peleg Arnold. 1 Rhode Island’s unsavory reputation over its paper money policies can be traced to the work of many critics, foremost of whom was Peter Edes, publisher of the Newport Herald, whose “frankly biased and prejudiced” accounts of the assembly’s proceedings from March 1787 to January 1790 were regularly republished in newspapers through out the United States. Irwin H. Polishook, “Peter Edes’s Report of the Proceedings of the Rhode Island General Assembly, 1787-1790,” Rhode Island History 25 (1966): 33-42; and Polishook, Rhode Island and the Union, pp. 166-67. Francis Childs, publisher of the New York Daily Advertiser, subsequently explained that he had actually reprinted the “proceedings” which Arnold and Varnum condemned as a “daring insult” from the text printed in the March 28 issue of the Massachusetts Centinel. Governor Clinton immediately submitted this Rhode Island complaint to the New York Assembly, which in turn referred it to a committee of the whole house, along with a memorial from Francis Childs that it received a few hours later. The committee recommended April 14 that the matter “be delivered to the Attorney-General of this State, and that he be directed, if the said [Rhode Island] Delegates shall require it, to proceed upon the ... said complaint, in such manner as the laws of this State may war rant," which the Assembly adopted April 16 and the Senate concurred in April 17. Journal of the Assembly of the Slate of New-York, tenth session, pp. 143, 146, 162; Journal of the Senate of the State of New-York, tenth session, p. 90, DLC(ESR). No further action against Childs was taken however. As Arnold and Varnum later explained to Gov. John Collins, “Our views are fully answered, and we have it now in our power to gratify our feelings to the extremes of generosity.” See Rhode Island Delegates to John Collins, April 24, note 7.
