April 10, 1787 211 the Confederacy—our State voted against the measure, but we were almost singular. I am extremely mortified with the Disappointments which this ar rangement will produce with the worthy Gentlemen who have laid aside other concerns and engaged as Officers in this Corps. Farewel, R King RC (NHi: King Papers). 1 King also wrote the following brief note to Gerry on April 4. “Dr Gerry, My fears rel ative to the administration of our dear Massachusetts exceed my hopes. Farewel, R King.” King Papers, NHi. 2 See JCC, 32:158-60. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Teusday April 11 [10] [1787], Mr. Kerney moved that Congs adjourn on the last Friday in April to meet on the day of May 1 in Philada. Georgia, N.C., Va., Delre., Pena., N. Jersey & R.I. were for it. The merits of the proposition were not discussed. The friends to it seemed sensible that objections lay agst. the particular moment at which it was proposed, but considering the greater centrality of Philada. as rendering a removal proper in it self—and the uncertainty of finding 7 States present & in the humour again, they waved the Objections. The opinion of myself was that the meeting of the ensuing Congs, in Philada. ought to be fixed, leaving the existing Congs, to remain throughout the federal year in N. York. This arrangemt. wd. have been less irrita[t]ing, and would have less the aspect of precipitancy or passion, and wd. have repelled insinua tions of a personal considerations with the members. The question was agd. to lie over till tomorrow. 2 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 9:372. 1 Actually, “the first Monday in June,” for which see JCC, 32:167. 2 The decision to have this question “lie over,” which was moved by the Massachusetts delegation, was apparently contested by Madison. According to the journals of Con gress, the motion on the issue, which involved an interpretation of article 22 of the con gressional rules of order, was offered by Abraham Clark and seconded by William Grayson. But the editors of Madison’s Papers discovered that the motion is actually in the hand of Madison, who secured Clark’s cooperation in submitting it to Congress, for which see Madison, Papers (Rutland), 9:371-72; JCC, 32:170; and PCC, item 36, 3:343-44.
