226 April 16, 1787 William Grayson to William Short p r §j r N. York Api. 16 1787. It is not for want of attention or respect that I have so long declined writing to you: my silence has been owing to a very different cause. I have understood that every letter which goes from this country to France is opened at some of the Post Offices for the information of Government. A few hours sinc[e] I understood that Mr. Paine was to go in the French packett, in the morning so that I am much harried. I am sorry to inform you that American affairs in general wear the worst aspect you can possibly concieve. The people discontented, The public treasury without money, (and laws in several of the States but faintly executed) and the states either refusing or not complying with the requisitions of Congress. Jersy last year rejected the requisition: & Connecticut this. Only Virginia, N. York & Pensylvany. pay any thing towds. the support of Governmt. through their means the Dutch In terest & Civil list of the U. States have been paid since I have been in Congress: The rest of the Union appear to be in a {stupid) insensible languor as to money supplies. The much talked of 5 Per Ct Impost has been rejected by N. York: & if she had passed it it would have availed little as Pensylvany has cou pled it with the supplementary funds, & will I believe never separate the one from the other. Congress annually vote requisitions for the foreign & domestic inter est which are totally disreguarded. It appears to me there is a consider able party in every State agt. the payment of the domestic debt: & though this matter has shewed it self openly only in Massachusets yet I am satisfyed {the same cause exists most generally & would be drawn forth by pressure of taxation) a vigorous taxation would produce the same affect in many of the other states. Connecticut would have been in the situa tion of Massachusetts if she had passed the requisition. I dont pretend to say that the domestic debt is the only cause of discontent. I believe a dislike to the payment of private debt to be equally prevalent. Rhode Island has issued paper money to satisfy her people which has depreci ated amazingly: North & So. Carolina & N. York & Jersey did this some time since & Maryland is now about doing it. Upon the whole it seems to be the current opinion that however excellent democratical govern ments may be in some respects, the payment of money & the preserva tion of the public faith is not among their good qualifications. Congress have lately recommended a meeting of deputies to re vise the foederal constitution: they are to assemble the 2nd Munday
