228 April 16, 1787 An Attempt was made a few days since to remove the session of Con gress to Philada. & lost by half a Vote. I expect the new Congress will sit at that place. 3 The State of New York have passed a law declaring Vermont inde pendant in certain conditions. 4 We shall oppose Kentucki to Vermont, & from this circumstance (as we are instructed by the State) it is not improbable but both may get into the Confederation provided the Missisippi business does not altogether detach Kentuckie from the Union. I forgot to inform you that Spain claims almost all Kentucki. Indeed I dont know whether she does not go to Richmond. The treaty with Portugal is not yet arrived; I am satisfied our Ministers did every thing in their power: though it is greatly to be lamented that we can not send our flour there. Mr. Adams has requested leave to return to America. This will 1 ex pect be granted. Mr. Bond appointed by the Court of G.B. Commis sary & Consul, will be received only in the latter capacity, if at all. 5 There is a proposition now depending before Congress for sending Mr. Jefferson to Spain on particular business; but doubtful whether it will be carried. 6 You will consider this letter as perfectly confidential: if the packett does not go in the morning I will add to it as well as cor rect & copy it. If I have not time you must guess at the contents as well as you can. From yr. Affect, frd & hhble servt., Willm. Grayson. RC (DLC: Short Papers). 1 See Edward Carrington to Edmund Randolph, April 13, note 3. 2 See Virginia Delegates to Randolph, March 5, note 1. 3 Seejames Madison’s Notes of Debates, April 11, note 2. 4 See Carrington to Randolph, April 13, note 4. 5 See Madison’s Notes of Debates, March 30, notes 1 and 4. 6 See Madison’s Notes, April 18. James Madison to George Washington Dear Sir New York April 16 1787 I have been honoured with your letter of the 31 of March, 1 and find with much pleasure that your views of the reform which ought to be pursued by the Convention, give a sanction to those which I have enter tained. Temporising applications will dishonor the Councils which pro pose them, and may foment the internal malignity of the disease, at the same time that they produce an ostensible palliation of it. Radical at tempts, although unsuccessful, will at least justify the authors of them. Having been lately led to revolve the subject which is to undergo the discussion of the Convention, and formed in my mind some out-
