April 16, 1787 229 lines of a new system, I take the liberty of submitting them without apology, to your eye. Conceiving that an individual independence of the States is utterly irreconcileable with their aggregate sovereignty; and that a consolida tion of the whole into one simple republic would be as inexpedient as it is unattainable, I have sought for some middle ground, which may at once support a due supremacy of the national authority, and not ex clude the local authorities wherever they can be subordinately useful. I would propose as the ground-work that a change be made in the principle of representation. According to the present form of the Union in which the intervention of the States is in all great cases nec essary to effectuate the measures of Congress, an equality of suffrage, does not destroy the inequality of importance, in the several mem bers. No one will deny that Virginia and Massts. have more weight and influence both within & without Congress than Delaware or Rho. Is land. Under a system which would operate in many essential points without the intervention of the State Legislatures, the case would be materially altered. A vote in the national Councils from Delaware, would then have the same effect and value as one from the largest State in the Union. I am ready to believe that such a change will not be attended with much difficulty. A majority of the States, and those of greatest influence, will regard it as favorable to them. To the North ern States it will be recommended by their present populousness; to the Southern by their expected advantage in this respect. The lesser States must in every event yield to the predominant will. But the con sideration which particularly urges a change in the representation is that it will obviate the principal objections of the larger States to the necessary concessions of power. I would propose next that in addition to the present federal powers, the national Government should be armed with positive and compleat authority in all cases which require uniformity; such as the regulation of trade, including the right of taxing both exports & imports, the fix ing the terms and forms of naturalization, &c &c. Over and above this positive power, a negative in all cases whatsoever on the legislative acts of the States, as heretofore exercised by the Kingly prerogative, appears to me to be absolutely necessary, and to be the least possible encroachment on the State jurisdictions. Without this defensive power, every positive power that can be given on paper will be evaded & defeated. The States will continue to invade the na tional jurisdiction, to violate treaties and the law of nations & to har- rass each other with rival and spiteful measures dictated by mistaken views of interest. Another happy effect of this prerogative would be its controul on the internal vicisitudes of State policy; and the aggres sions of interested majorities on the rights of minorities and of indi-
