230 April 16, 1787 viduals. The great desideratum which has not yet been found for Re publican Governments, seems to be some disinterested & dispassion ate umpire in disputes between different passions & interests in the State. The majority who alone have the right of decision, have fre quently an interest real or supposed in abusing it. In Monarchies the sovereign is more neutral to the interests and views of different par ties; but unfortunately he too often forms interests of his own repug nant to those of the whole. Might not the national prerogative here suggested be found sufficiently disinterested for the decision of local questions of policy, whilst it would itself be sufficiently restrained from the pursuit of interests adverse to those of the whole Society? There has not been any moment since the peace at which the representatives of the union would have given an assent to paper money or any other measure of a kindred nature. The national supremacy ought also to be extended as I conceive to the Judiciary departments. If those who are to expound & apply the laws, are connected by their interests & their oaths with the particular States wholly, and not with the Union, the participation of the Union in the making of the laws may be possibly rendered unavailing. It seems at least necessary that the oaths of the Judges should include a fidelity to the general as well as local constitution, and that an appeal should lie to some national tribunals in all cases to which foreigners or inhabitants of other States may be parties. The admiralty jurisdiction seems to fall entirely within the purview of the national Government. The national supremacy in the Executive departments is liable to some difficulty, unless the officers administering them could be made appointable by the supreme Government. The Militia ought certainly to be placed in some form or other under the authority which is in trusted with the general protection and defence. A Government composed of such extensive powers should be well organized and balanced. The Legislative department might be di vided into two branches; one of them chosen every years by the peo ple at large, or by the legislatures; the other to consist of fewer mem bers, to hold their places for a longer term, and to go out in such a rotation as always to leave in office a large majority of old members. Perhaps the negative on the laws might be most conveniently exer cised by this branch. As a further check, a council of revision includ ing the great ministerial officers might be superadded. A national Executive must also be provided. I have scarcely ven tured as yet to form my own opinion either of the manner in which it ought to be constituted or of the authorities with which it ought to be cloathed. An article should be inserted expressly guarantying the tranquility of the States against internal as well as external dangers.
