232 April 16, 1787 have been the operative motives with those on one side who were not locally interested in the removal. On the other side the motives are obvious. Those of real weight were drawn from the apparent caprice with which Congress might be reproached, and particularly from the peculiarity of the existing moment. I own that I think so much regard due to these considerations, that notwithstanding the powerful ones on the other side, I should have assented with great repugnance to the motion, and would even have voted against it if any probability had existed that by waiting for a proper time, a proper measure might not be lost for a very long time. The plan which I shd. have judged most eligible would have been to fix on the removal whenever a vote could be obtained, but so as that it should not take effect until the commencement of the ensuing federal year. And if an immediate removal had been resolved on, I had intended to propose such a change in the plan. No final question was taken in the case. Some preliminary questions shewed that six States were in favor of the mo tion. Rho. Island the 7th was at first on the same side, and Mr. Var- num one of her delegates continues so. His colleague was overcome by the solicitations of his Eastern brethren. As neither Maryland nor South Carolina were on the floor, it seems pretty evident that N. York has a very precarious tenure of the advantages derived from the abode of Congress. We understand that the discontents in Massts which lately pro duced an appeal to the sword, are now producing a trial of strength in the field of electioneering. The Governor will be displaced. The Senate is said to be already of a popular complexion, and it is ex pected the other branch will be still more so. Paper money it is sur mized will be the engine to be played off agst. creditors both public and private. As the event of the Elections however is not yet decided, this information must be too much blended with conjecture to be re garded as matter of certainty. I do not learn that the proposed act relating to Vermont has yet gone through all the stages of legislation here; nor can I say whether it will finally pass or not. 5 In truth, it having not been a subject of con versation for some time, I am unable to say what has been done or is likely to be done with it. With the sincerest affection & the highest es teem, I have the honor to be Dear Sir your devoted Servt. Js. Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 9:382-87. 1 See ibid., pp. 342-44. 2 See Charles Thomson to the States, April 13. s See Madison’s Notes of Debates, March 29, note 1. 4 The board of treasury had reported on April 5 geographer Thomas Hutchins’ esti mate of 675,000 acres of western territory surveyed in 26 townships. See JCC, 32:156. 5 See Edward Carrington to Edmund Randolph, April 13, note 4.
