234 April 18,1787 RC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). 1 See Blount to John Gray Blount, March 14. 2 For this April 10 motion, which was seconded by Blount but was actually offered by Delaware delegate Dyre Kearny, see JCC, 32:167. William Blount to Thomas Blount Newyork April 18th 1787 Your Letters of the 7th Feby and 7th March are both to hand, 1 the last within two days of the first owing to some Neglet in the Post office here and are both forwarded on to J.G.B. to whom I have wrote in the strongest Terms requesting him to forward on to you without delay both the Deposition of Geo. Dennison and Mr. Ellis. I am sure they are both to be obtained. Mr. Ellis Certificate is founded on the face of his Books which Books I have seen. This Day a Brig belongi[ng] to Constable, Rucker & Co. sails for Washington to take on a part of the Public To bacco which they [have] purchased of the North Carolina Delegation with which she proceeds to France and by her I think it is probable one Copy of both their Depositions will be forwarded to you because I am sure she will afford the f[i]rst Conveyance from Washington for Europe. Herewith you will receive a Letter from Mr William Constable to his Partner Mr. Rucker of London of Introduction which please deliver. I am glad to find Mr. Hudson discovers so much Inclination to pay the Legacy due Mrs. Hall perhaps if he was offered a handsome dis count he would pay the Mony without [the] [a]forementioned Depo sition say a Discount of 15 Per Ct. or less. If upon Inquiry you should discover then that he would it is decidedly my Opinion that you give it without Hesitation for however dear Mrs Halls Claim may be and I think is the Uncertainty and Delay of the Law is as great but this offer should not be made untill you discover a Certainty of its being ac cepted. Take every Opportunity to Inform the State of this Business for it may be when it is certain to be obtained by you that it could be cheaply purchased in Carolina of Mrs. Hill. If you should get it in hand hold it untill you inform and as well advise what is proper as to its disposition. I have also wrote to J.G.B. respecting Billy Morans Claim and respecting the Claim of Geo. Lovick of New Bern who has an undoubted Right to a valuable House & Lot near the Foot of Lon don Bridge respecting both whom I suppose he will w[rite] you by Constables Brig via France. The following is an extract of a Letter this day address to J G Blount by which you will see how much Tobacco J.G. & T. B. have purchased of Constable, Rucker & Co. and on what Terms. 2 As to the Politicks or People of North Carolina I know but very little about them except that your friends are all well. Congress are doing very little Business in general tho they have lately passed
