April 18, 1787 235 some Resolution respecting the Treaty of Peace that will do them much Credit in Europe. 3 Much is expected from the Convention at Philadelphia which is to meet on the 2d Monday in May which I shod attend and shall go from thence to Carolina. Mr Adams [...] to re turn to America after the Time for which he was appointed shall have expired about 10 or 12 Months to come which he will certainly obtain & it is equally certain that Colonel Smiths Appointment will not be re newed so that he may return also. 4 FC (Nc—Ar: Blount Papers). In the hand of William Blount. 1 Thomas’ March 7 letter is in Blount, Papers (Keith), pp. 254-56. 2 Blount wrote above the line at this point, “here it was inserted," for which see the preceding entry. 3 Undoubtedly the resolution enclosed in Charles Thomson to the States, April 13. 4 This draft of Blount’s letter to Thomas was sent under cover of the following note of this date from William to John Gray Blount. “The foregoing is a Copy of Letter I this day addressed to Thomas Blount by a Vessel which sails in the Morning for Liverpool. You will readily see Reasons sufficient for my sending it to you therefore shall not assign any.” Blount Papers, Nc-Ar. Edward Carrington to James Monroe My dear Sir New York Api. 18. 1787 Col. Franks arrived here last week in the French Packet from Havre de Grace. He says that before he sailed accounts were received at Havre of the death of the Count de Vergennes, and Mr. Jefferson in some dispatches Col. F. is the bearer of, mentions his indisposition, and that it occasioned great anxciety at the time he wrote. 1 These cor roborating circumstances placed the event in tolerable certainty. This was a great and good minister, whose life was important to the United States, and valuable to the world. He was so considerable a Spring in the present tone of European politics, that it may, perhaps, depend upon his successors acting like him, and possessing the same degree of confidence whether she will remain at peace. The dispatches brought by Col. F. contain Accounts of the Conven tion which his Most Christian Majesty has called upon the National concerns, it consists of the several orders of the Kingdom, and the Members are denominated the Notables—it seems a similar measure was adopted about 160 years ago. This event is considered as a very im portant one in Europe from which, some expect great things, others nothing. A british packet arrived last Sunday and brings papers which contain the Speech of the King of France and others upon the open ing of the Convention, and some of the proceedings of that body, from which you will form, in some degree, an idea of the objects of the mea sure—these communications are contained in the inclosed paper. 2
