236 April 18, 1787 Our Friend the M. de la Fayette was originally placed upon the list of Notables, afterwards his name disappeared but was finally reinstated— his education in our School has, it seems, drawn upon him the jealous eye of some of his Court whose principles are rigidly formed to those of their own despotic government. He has, however, the good disposi tion of the King, the affections and confidence of the people, and is supported by powerful family connections. He is the youngest Man upon the list of Notables, except one, whose office placed him there. This distinction is no less honourable and flattering to us than him. These circumstances shew that the Marquis’s character is not consid ered as a triffling one, and that it occasions some agitation—he has however passed his Crisis. The papers which came by the british packet mention the death of the Count de Vergennes upon a certain day— this is premature, being prior to the date of our letters from Mr. Jeffer son—it is however little to be doubted that the event has taken place. We are endeavouring to get a practicable Scheme adopted, to su percede an impracticable one, for selling the Western territory—the business is Committed. 3 We have taken the ground of indiscriminate lo cations from which we may, perhaps, concede to some intermediate stage between that & the present ordinance. The Eastern States, Rh. Is land excepted, aim at nothing but to prevent an agreement, as the exist ing scheme answers their views. We shall endeavour to meet Rhode Is land & Jersey, in some measure retaining the idea of Townships, but still calculated to accellerate the Sales, and throw the expence of Surveying upon the purchasers. These two States are much more free from the eastern Shackles, under their present delegations, than they were last y ear —i n the further progress of this business you shall hear from me. Mr. Madison in Conjunction with myself has agreed to take the fur niture from your Mechanic, although we do not like it, in the whole appearance. We cannot fix upon any particular exceptions so as to jus tify a refusal to take it, except as to one of the Card tablets] which we insist on his replacing with another. Major Pinkney has not, that we can discover, provided for the payment of 100 dollars as you expected. The Family at the Sycamores are well except as to the old gentleman, who is in his old way. Present me to Mrs. Monroe & believe me to [be] your Sincere friend & Humbl Servt., Ed. Carrrington RC (DLC: Monroe Papers). 1 See Edward Carrington to Edmund Randolph, April 13, note 3. 2 The British packet Sandwich had arrived from Falmouth on April 15. Translations of the speeches of Louis XVI, the Garde des Sceaux (Keeper of the Seals), the Archbishop of Narbonne, and the comte d’Artois before the Assembly of Notables appeared in the April 17 issues of the New-York Packet and the Daily Advertiser and April 18 issue of the In- dependent Journal. 3 The board of treasury had been ordered on March 20 to report a plan for selling the townships already surveyed. It recommended on April 5 that Congress amend the ordinance of May 20, 1785, to permit the sale of land in the four surveyed ranges rather
