April 19, 1787 241 North Carolina Delegates to Richard Caswell Dear Sir, New York the 18th. of April 1787 We wrote your Excellency on the 19th of March, a Copy of which and the Articles of agreement made for the sale of the public To bacco, 1 we herewith enclose. This will be handed to you or forwarded to you by Mr. Robert Stewart the Agent as we are informed of Consta ble Rucker & Co. for the completion of their contract with us. We have the honor to be with sincere esteem & regard, Dear Sir, Yr. Excellency’s most Obedt. Servants, Wm. Blount Benjamin Hawkins John B. Ashe RC (TKL: McClung Collection). 1 See N.C. State Records, 20:639—41. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Thursday April 19th [1787]. The instructions of Virga, agst. relinquishing the Missippi were laid before Congs, by the delegates of that State, with a motion that they should be referred to the department for F. A. by way of information. 1 The reference was opposed by Mr. King & Mr. Benson as unneces sary for that purpose, the instructions having been printed in the newspapers. In answer to this it was observed that the memorial accompanying the instructions had never been printed; that if it had, no just objec tion could be thence drawn agst. an official communication; that if Congs, would submit a measure as they had done yesterday to the opinion of their Minister 2 they ought at least to supply him with every fact in the most authentic manner, which could assist his judgment; and that they had actually referred to the same minister communica tions relative to the Western views, less interesting & authentic, and which he had made the basis of a Report to Congs. 3 The motion was lost: Massts. and New York being agst. it, and Con necticut divided. Mr. Mitchel from the latter State was displeased at the negatives as indicating a want of candor & moderation on the subject. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 9:392. 1 For the assembly instructions of November 29, 1786, “agst. relinquishing the Mis sippi” which were laid before Congress this day together with a memorial to the assem-
