248 April 22, 1787 this Time will be quite satisfactory, and that they will be attended by suitable persons from the respective States. 1 We will transmit a copy of the commissioner’s Letter for your Excellency’s information by the next post, 2 and are respectfully your Obt. & very Humble Servts., Nath Gorham 3 Rufus King RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Written by King and signed by King and Dane. 1 See Massachusetts and New York Delegates to John Ewing and David Rittenhouse, April 23. 2 King enclosed this material with the following brief note to Bowdoin of April 25. “I do myself the honor to inclose to your Excellency' copies of the papers mentioned in a Letter from Mr. Gorham & myelf by the last post.” Revolutionary War Letters, M-Ar. This was the last delegate letter that has been found written by King before his depar ture May 19 to attend the constitutional convention. For the first of his known letters written from Philadelphia, see King to Jeremiah Wadsworth, May 24. 3 Gorham hadjust returned to his seat in Congress April 21. See JCC, 32:224, 227. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Monday April 23d [1787]. Mr. Jay’s Report stating objections agst. the motion of Mr. [Madison] 1 for sending Mr. Jefferson to Madrid was taken into consideration. 2 Mr. [Madison] observed that Mr. Jay had not taken up the proposi tion in the point of view in which it had been penned; and explained what that was; to wit, that it was expedient to retract the step taken for ceding the Mississpi, and to do it in a manner as respectful & concili ating as possible to Spain, and which at the same time would procrasti nate the dilemma stated by Mr. Jay. He said he was not attached to the expedient he had bro’t forward, and was open to any other that might be less exceptionable. Mr. Ghorum avowed his opinion that the Shutting the Mississpi would be advantageous to the Atlantic States, and wished to see it shut. Mr. [Madison] animadverted on the illiberality of his doctrine, and contrasted it with the principles of the Revolution, and the language of American patriots. Nothing was done in the case. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rudand), 9:402. 1 Madison later inserted “Madison.” 2 See Madison’s Notes of Debates, April 18, note 4.
