April 24, 1787 255 pointments which were offered them. Genl. Washington it is hoped will attend but there is some reason to apprehend the contrary—his state of health is not a good one. I am pleased to hear of the impressions which have been received in Europe with respect to the late commotions in Massachusetts. A perfect quiet prevails there now, but it is said the elections for the en suing year are not free of the influence of the Malcontents. The Convention will be productive of things worth communicating to you, and I will do myself the pleasure to write by the first opportu nity that offers after its commencement. Be good enough to present me to Mr. Short, to whom I will write by the next packet. I have the Honour to be, with great respect & Esteem, Dr Sir, Your Most Obt. Servt., Ed. Carrington RC (DLC:Jefferson Papers). 1 See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 11:48-50. Rhode Island Delegates to John Collins Sir, Newyork 24th April, 1787. The following measures have been adopted by Congress since our last communications. The resolution of the twentieth Octr. last is so far repealed, that only two Companies of the Massachusetts’ line are retained. 1 Congress have unequivocally declared the operation of the treaty of peace with Great Britain, & recommended to the respective states to repeal all laws repugnant to the principles of that treaty. 2 The reasons inducing this measure accompany the resolution; & the con sequences will be an evacuation of the western posts, provided the States comply, as they certainly will upon principles of right, & of good policy. A copper coinage, upon the federal standard, for the value of one hundred thousand pounds this currency, is established. 3 The Contractor gives a premium of fifteen per cent, and loans the whole sum, upon the common funds, for twenty years, with six per cent interest, with an option in the United States, of discharging the debt sooner. The appropriation is for sinking the debt, and well con ducted, will produce the best objects of financiering. The pay of the Civil list is reduced. 4 The western lands already surveyed, are directed to be sold agreably to the Ordinance for that purpose, in five months, at public vendue, in the place where Congress may set, for not less than one dollar in paper or specie per Acre. 5 Much attention has been paid to a plan for speedily settling the accounts of the United
