256 April 24, 1787 States with the individual states, but the want of nine states in repre sentation now impedes the accomplishment of that desirable object. 6 It is probable that no business, of very essential importance, will be conducted for some time to come, as the public attention is very much engrossed upon the meeting of the delegates in convention, some of whom are members of congress. This period forms a most serious crisis in our political existence! The avowed objects of this new assembly, sanctioned by general opinion, and pointing to the great interests of the whole Union, are too momentous not to claim the attention of the state of Rhode Island! How far an intire adherence to the articles of Confederation may justify the policy of any one or two states in remain ing indifferent spectators to the probable events of these arrange ments, we shall not presume to decide; but common safety, and the re lation a part bears to the whole should have their due influence upon this occasion. As representatives of the state in the General confeder acy, we feel no motives but those which are directed to the honor and happiness of all our constituents, and therefore do not urge, but offer our sentiments, that the resolution of Congress for appointing dele gates in the convention ought to be complied with. The Legislature of this state have ordered a prosecution against the printer, in consequence of our letter to Governor Clinton, should we request it. In this matter we acted deliberately, and, as we conceive, with propriety. The peculiarity and delicacy of our situation required an assertion of the dignity of our state, or a submission to the most de basing humility. Our views are fully answered, and we have it now in our power to gratify our feelings to the extremes of generosity. 7 In a short time, we shall be able to retire from public business, & pay some attention to our private concerns; but in order to obtain that intermission, & preserve a character worthy of those who im- ployed us, we hope for the supplies our appointments intitle us to. Be pleased sir, to accept our congratulations upon the commence ment of a new political Year and, while our most earnest wishes are di rected to the prosperity of the state, under the influence of wise and salutary measures, be assured of the great esteem and regard, with which we have the honor of being, your excellency’s very obedt. & most humble servants, J M Varnum. Peleg Arnold RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by James M. Varnum and signed by Varnum and Peleg Arnold. 1 For this April 9 repeal, see JCC, 32:158-59. 2 See Charles Thomson to the States, April 13. 3 See JCC, 32:223-25. 4 See JCC, 128-30. 5 For this April 21 decision, see JCC, 32:225-26.
