258 April 25, 1787 however it was become necessary that a preliminary motion for its re peal shd. be made, and which he accordingly made. His objections agst. the rule were 1. that it was an attempt in one congs. to bind their successors which was not only impracticable in itself, but highly unrea sonable in the very instance which gave birth to the rule. 12 States were on the floor at the time. 7 were for the previous question. 5 agst. it. The casting number therefore was but two. Was it not unreasonable that 11 States unanimously of a contrary opinion should be con- trouled by this small majority when 12 were present; & yet such would be the operation of the rule, if 11 States only should at any time hap pen to be present, altho’ they should be unanimous in the case. 2. The operation of the rule in another respect was still far more reprehensible. In the former case the 11 States, or even 7 could extri cate themselves by a repeal of the rule. In case a number less than 7 should wish to justify themselves by any particular motion, they might be precluded by such a rule: 6 States instructed by their constituents to make a particular proposition, or to enter a particular protest, might be thus fettered by a strategem of 7 States. In the case actually depending 3 States were instructed, and two if not 3 more ready to vote with them. 3. The practice of other Assemblies did not reach this case; and if it did, the reason of it wd. be inapplicable. The restriction in other as semblies related to the same assembly & even to the same Session. Here the restriction is perpetual—In Legislative assemblies, no great inconvenience could happen from a suspension of a law for a limited time. In Executive Councils, which are involved in the Constitution of Congs., and particularly in military operations, & negociations, the vi- cicutude of events would often govern, and a measure improper on one day might become necessary the next. Mr. Clarke & Mr. Varnum contended that the rules of the Congs, for the last year, were not in force during the present, and supposed that a repeal was unnecessary. In the course of this discussion the question as to the validity of the vote of 7 States and the merits of the proposition of Mr. M [adison] barred by the rule, incidentally came into view. The adversaries to the latter did not maintain the validity, or rather declined studiously giv ing an opinion on it. They urged only the impropriety of any exposi tion by Congs, of their own powers & of the validity of their own acts. They were answered that the exposition must lie somewhere, and more properly with Congs, than with one of their Ministerial officers— that it was absurd to say that Congs, with information on their table that a Treaty with a foreign nation was going on without a constitu tional sanction, should forbear out of such scruple to arrest it, and prevent the dilemma which wd. ensue, of either recognising an un constitutional proceeding, or of quarrelling with the K. of Spain, that
