April 30, 1787 265 I have now the honor of transmitting herewith enclosed an Act for dispossessing those xMen who have taken possession of post St Vin cents. 2 Though this is a public Act, yet it is thought best not to pub lish it until the Secy at War shall have made arrangements for carry ing it into execution; but as the Citizens of your Commonwealth are principally concerned it is at the desire of Your Delegates forwarded to You. With great respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient & Most Humble Servt. Cha Thomson RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 Governor Randolph had sent Congress a number of documents received from Ken tucky reporting that settlers under the leadership of Gen. George Rogers Clark had taken the law into their own hands in retaliation against the Spanish closure of the Mis sissippi River and to control the western Indians. Clark was not only illegally recruiting troops, but his men had taken possession of Vincennes and had seized “all the Goods belonging to the Spanish Merchants at post Vincennes and the Illinois,... determined they shall not trade up the river provided they will not let us trade down it.” The Vir ginia Council had condemned Clark’s actions as contrary to the laws of Virginia and the treaty obligations of the United States, and asked Congress to communicate Vir ginia’s disavowal of these activities to the Spanish minister to the United States. These papers were laid before Congress March 28 and referred to the secretary for foreign af fairs, John Jay, who reported on April 13, for which see JCC, 32:141n, 147, 189-204; and PCC, item 71, 2:491-526. See also Virginia Delegates to Randolph, February 12, note 1. 2 This April 24 “act” ordering United States troops on the Ohio to take steps for the immediate recovery of Vincennes was adopted upon the recommendation of the secre tary at war, Henry Knox, who had received a report from Lt. Col. Josiah Harmar at Fort Pitt on “the usurpation of the public lands” by George Rogers Clark’s men. See JCC, 32:213, 222, 231, 333. James Madison’s Notes April 1787. 1 Vices of the political Observations byJ.M. 2 system of the U. States 1. Failure of the States to comply with the Constitutional requisitions. 1. This evil has been so fully experienced both during the war and since the peace, results so naturally from the number and indepen dent authority of the States and has been so uniformly examplified in every similar Confederacy, that it may be considered as not less radi cally and permanently inherent in, than it is fatal to the object of, the present System. 2. Encroachments by the States on the federal authority.
