May 5, 1787 275 10 A transcript of this letter from the French charge d’affaires, Louis Guillaume Otto, is in PCC, item 120, 3:118-19. 11 No letter of this date from Charles W. F. Dumas is in the PCC, although a draft of one to John Jay of October 23 is in the Dumas Papers, Inventaire II, fol. 845, Algemeen Rijksarchief, The Hague, DLC microfilm. Charles Thomson to Certain States Sir Office of Secretary of Congress. May 4th. 1787 I have the honor to transmit to Your Excellency herewith enclosed an Act of the United States in Congress Assembled passed the 3d Inst, recognizing Phineas Bond Esqr. as Consul of his britannic Majesty throughout the States of New York, N Jersey, Pensylvania, Delaware and Maryland. 1 With great respect &c FC (DNA: PCC, item 49). In the hand of Roger Alden. Addressed: “To the Governors of New York, New Jersey, Pensylvania, Delaware & Maryland.” The RCs of this letter were signed by Thomson. 1 For the adoption of the enclosed “Act," on the recommendation of secretary for for eign affairs John Jay and after prolonged debate, see JCC, 32:253-55; and James Madi son’s Notes of Debates, March 30. James Madison to William Irvine Dear Sir Philada. 1 May 5th. 1787 When I left N. York which was on Thursday last nothing had been done in the business which you had particularly at heart. A motion was made soon after you left us, to the effect which you urged. It was referred to the department to which the subject of it belonged. The report disapproved of the expedient and it was found needless to pur sue it farther in Congress. 2 The next proposition was that the invalid ity of the unconstitutional vote, should be declared, as an instruction to the proper department. To the admission of this proposition, the rule formerly entered into, was urged in bar. It was then proposed that the rule should be repealed. This also was refused by those whose concur rence in so thin a Congs, was necessary. No final vote therefore was taken on any of the motions, and in this State I left the matter. 3 Whether any further attempt will be made in the present thin state of Congs, or when a full Congs, will be together, are questions which I can not answer. Most of the other business remained in the state you left it. 4 I shall not return to N. York before the meeting of the Conven tion which is to commence on Monday week. Maryland has appointed
