278 May 13, 1787 I have been very busily employed since You and Mr Thomson left town, 1 and had I been more accustomed to do the business, I should have enjoyed more pleasure in discharging my duty. But I believe that I have made no mistakes, and have the satisfaction to be told that I do it very well. The ordinance for appointing a board of Commissioners to settle the public Accounts & the proceedings on the motion for ad journment have been the most perplexing 2 —and some of my friends anticipating my wishes, were kind enough to advise & assist me. On Monday last 9 States were represented, by the return of Mr Mitchell from Delaware. On Tuesday the first trial of power appeared by a Motion for the repeal of the order of Sept. 1st, 1786, respecting the operation of the previous Question. This was effected on Thurs day following—& succeeded by Mr Kearny’s motion for Adjourn ment. 3 The debates continued till four oClock—& the Jersey Mem bers, being a little impatient, having gone to dine, prevented any decision. The next morning opened with the Mississippi business on the application of Mr Jay for express instructions. 4 After long debates the letter was referred to a Committee of 5. Between three and four oClock—the Motion for adjour[n]ment was taken up. After some warm and animated speeches by the Minority, Mr K 5 observed, that if the Majority were determined, nolens et volens, to carry the Question, he should request time to prepare a motion to lay before the house, and if he found them not liberal enough to grant the in dulgence he should demand it in right of his State. He was frank enough to declare, that it was his opinion that the house hadn’t power by the confederation to adjourn for any period beyond a cer tain time without appointing a Committee of the States, and as 9 States were necessary to empower the Committee, he should prepare his business for the house to decide upon. This produced much alter cation, during this, the State of New Jersey was unrepresented and Mr S n 6 was not to be found. Then the Majority had their fears, and Mr Pet 1, 7 in his place, observed—that if he was supported by his colleagues he should require the matter to be postponed until to morrow in right of his State. The impropriety of this step aroused the minority, & some of the warmest expressions fell from some of the Gentlemen that I have ever heard—and in the midst of the confu sion—Adjourn, Adjourn was cried—and carried—and left the busi ness as it was taken up. I [t] appears that the Majority were confident of success and Mr Sch n had requested the ferry boat to wait for him to a certain time. This having elapsed, he made the best of his way fearing a disap pointment—and left his friends to lament his absence, and the loss of their cause. 8
