May 13, 1787 279 How many States will be present tomorrow is uncertain. 9 Mr Few went on to Philadelphia yesterday, and it was thought that some other Gentlemen would leave town. How the fact is I am not able to say. Another vessel is arrived from Bermuda, but no letters from Mr John son. Mr Dickinson informs me that neither of these will return again. He expects one every day which he shall order back immediately. I intended to have given You a better copy of this letter, but as I have a long one to finish for Mr Thomson & several others to write be fore 8 oClock You must excuse it—but be assured to please & serve You is the anxious desire of Your sincere & affectionate friend & Humble servant, R Alden RC (CtHi: Johnson Papers). 1 Secretary Charles Thomson apparently went home to Philadelphia the week-end of May 5-6, after signing a circular letter to several states May 4, and returned to New York the week-end of June 23-24. Writing to Thomas Jefferson on April 28, Thomson ex plained that he would be leaving New York “in a day or two and expect to be some weeks absent,” and writing to the French charge d’affaires Louis-Guillaume Otto the same day he stated that “I purpose setting out for Philadelphia about the middle of next week.” Thomson Papers, DLC. Deputy Secretary Alden maintained the journals of Con gress from the entry for May 2 through June 23. PCC, item 1, vol. 38. 2 See Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry, March 25, note 2; and James Madison’s Notes of Debates, April 10 and 11, 1787. 3 For the context of these motions and debates, see James Madison’s Notes, April 25 and 26. For the action taken Thursday, May 10, see JCC, 32:278-80. 4 Ibid., pp. 288—90. 5 Rufus King. 6 James Schureman. 7 Charles Pettit. 8 This incident also became known outside the halls of Congress, eventually coming to the attention of the new French minister to the United States, the comte de Moustier, who arrived in January 1788. And Moustier subsequendy related it to the French foreign minister, the comte de Montmorin, to prepare him for understanding some of the chal lenges they might encounter in dealing with a fragile United States government. “Telle est 1’organisation vicieuse du Congres,” Moustier wrote in a dispatch of June 25, 1788, “independamment de son manque d’autorite, qu’un seule membre peut par son absence ou en se retirant au moment de donner sa voix faire manquer une affaire meme de la plus grande connoissance. On en a eu un exemple frappant 1’annee derniere. Le Congres deliberoit s’il quitteroit Newyork, neuf Etats etoient representes, celui de jersey ne 1’etoit que par deux membres sur lesquels on comptoit. Au moment de prononcer un des Membres se leve, prend sa canne et son chapeau; on a beau vouloir le retenir, il part, va droit au Ferry et repasse la riviere pour retourner ches lui. C’est cependant up corps ainsi organise, a qui 1’on a a faire toutes les demandes et tous les traites.” AHR8 (July 1903): 732. 9 In fact, only six states were represented when Congress attempted to convene on Mon day, May 14, the same number that was present on Saturday, May 12. Furthermore, with several delegates off to Philadelphia to attend the federal convention, Congress was unable to achieve a quorum again until July 4, when seven states were again represented for the first time since May 11, and elected William Grayson “chairman” in the absence of Presi dent Arthur St. Clair. See JCC, 32:292-303; and St. Clair to Charles Thomson, May 18.
