280 May 15, 1787 Henry Lee to Edmund Randolph Sir, New York May 15h 1787 The delegation have not had the honor of a letter from your Excel lency for three weeks, on our part the correspondence has been regu larly preserved. In conformity to the information contained in my last we brought before Congress a report of a committee to whom was referred the resolutions of the Legislature of Virga, relative to the meeting of com mercial deputys from that state & Maryland. The enclosed extract from the Journals will shew the sense of Con gress on this business. 1 It was with reluctance that the desire of our country was denied, but it was considered as indispensably necessary on a national view of the subject. The opposition contended that all partial regulations of commerce were impolitic as they tended to procrastinate and impede the adop tion of a general system, & might lead to seperate interests which might beget seperate leagues & ultimately produce divisions of the Union, which event is deprecated by all who feel for the dignity & happiness of these states. At present we have not more than six states, nor is there a probabil ity of an encrease during the sitting of the foederal convention. 2 I have the honor to be sir, most respectfully your ob h ser, Henry Lee Junr. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 See JCC, 22:271-72; and Edward Carrington to Randolph, April 2, note 3. 2 See the preceding entry, note 9. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Philada. May 15th. 1787. “Monday last was the day for the meeting of the Convention. The number as yet assembled is but small. Among the few is Genl. Washington who arrived on Sunday evening amidst the acclamations of the people, as well as more sober marks of the af fection and veneration which continues to be felt for his character. The Governor, Messrs. Wythe & Blair, and Doer. McClurg are also here. Col. Mason is to be here in a day or two. There is a prospect of a pretty full meeting on the whole, though there is less punctuality in the onset than was to be wished. Of this the late bad weather has been the principal cause.”
