282 May 19, 1787 The Convention is much talked of here, and various are the conjec tures about the alterations that will probably take place in the foederal Government. You are, I find, for having matters highly toned. I am for powers equal to a prompt and certain execution, but tempered with a proper respect for the liberties of the People. I am for securing their happiness, not by the will of a few, but by the direction of the Law. Upon whatever principles a Government is founded, whether rights are equally distributed among the People at large, or among a few, some respect ought to be paid to the temper of the People, as pro duced by one or the other of these rights. To depart from the general freedom of our Governments, which act by given Laws, and [...] to step into a Monarchy, which will at times be despotic, would plunge the States into a tumult infmtely worse than anarchy itself: torrents of blood would follow the confusion. I maintain that it would be even dangerous too suddenly to abolish the State inquisition of Venice. Mankind may be fashioned in some measure to any kind of Government, and when changes are necessary, they should be brought about gradually, keeping in view some of the original principles to which they have been accustomed. From this you may learn, that I am not for a total change of the Commonwealth. Fortunate indeed would be that People who could live under a Gov ernment that would operate only by fixed and established Laws, and not be made liable to obey the will of a Body independent of the Gov ernment itself. It is a matter of doubt with me whether any expedient (by which I would be understood to mean anything that is extrane ous) ought ever to be practised by a People desirous of living under a well regulated system of Laws. The creation of power not recognized by the constitution is ever dangerous to liberty. The exercise of the dictatorial power in Rome was inconsistent with their commonwealth; the creation of Prators, of Tribunes, of the Decemvirs &c. gave such an unsettled Spirit to the People, that they were never satisfied but when they were in pursuit of expedients to suit the various situations to which they were constantly shifting. Unless we can settle down into some permanent system very shortly, our condition will be as fickle and inconstant, as that of the Romans; and our political schemes be nothing more than chimeras and disorders. Now sir the great point—shall we be three confederated Republic’s or not? I leave you to examine the interrogatory. Mrs. Pierce joins me in the most respectful compliments to Mrs. Turner. I am dear Sir, Yours very affy, Wm. Pierce [PS.] The Statesman & the Phylosopher have their attention turned towards us: the oppressed and wretched look to America.
