May 28, 1787 291 some States, and the unruly temper of the people of others, must if per severed in soon produce some new scenes among us.” MS (DLC); reprinted from Madison, Papers (Rutland), 10:10. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Philada. May 27. 1787. “I have put off from day to day writing to my friends from this place in hopes of being able to say something of the Convention. Contrary to every previous calculation the bare quorum of seven States was not made up till the day before yesterday. The States composing it are N York, N. Jersey, Pena., Delaware, Virga., N. Carolina & S. Carolina. Individual members are here from Massts., Maryland & Georgia; and our intelligence promises a compleat addi tion of the first and last, as also of Connecticut by tomorrow. General Washington was called to the chair by a unanimous voice, and has ac cepted it. The Secretary is a Major Jackson. This is all that has yet been done except the appointment of a Committee for preparing the rules by which the Convention is to be governed in their proceedings. A few days will now furnish some data for calculating the probable re sult of the meeting. In general the members seem to accord in view ing our situation as peculiarly critical and in being averse to temporis ing expedients. I wish they may as readily agree when particulars are brought forward. Congress are reduced to five or six States, and are not likely to do any thing during the term of the Convention. A packet has lately arrived from France but brings no news.” RC (DLC); reprinted from Madison, Papers (Rutland), 10:11-12. William Blount to Richard Caswell Sir, New-York May 28th. 1787. Soon after the arrival of Mr. Spaight at Philadelphia he informed me [by] letter that he had brought with him a Commission for me to attend the Convention in the place and Stead of Your Excellency. I had been for some time before and at this time am too indisposed to undertake a Journey so far as Philadelphia tho’ at present I am much on the Recovery and shall leave this in a few days to Attend the duties of that Appointment. On the 24th Instant only six States had appeared among which North Carolina included and had four Members present. 1 On the
