294 May 30, 1787 cise say by traveling. On the 25th seven States assembled in Conven tion and Chose a President and Secretary, and by this Time I think there are eleven States represented only New-Hampshire and Rhode Island being unrepresented. I cannot suppose any thing definitive will be done in Convention in less than a Month, and most people sup pose not in less than two or three Months and I shall certainly be in Philadelphia in less than a Week. For some Weeks past there have not been more than five States on the Floor of Congress and seven are not expected before the Convention rises. Hawkins will leave this in about a Fortnight for No Carolina. A Vessel arrived today from London & there have lately been several others but no Letters from T. Blount. RC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). In William Blount’s hand, though not signed. William Samuel Johnson to Samuel William Johnson My Dear Son New York 30th. May 1787. I have only a Moments time to Acknowledge the rec’t of yr. favour of the 6th Instt. & to bless God for yr. health & prosperity. I arrived here last Evening from Stratford where thank God I left the Family all well, including Betsy & her Son who are there upon a Visit. I go on to morrow morning to Philadelphia where Delegates are Assembling from all the States in the Union, 1 except Rhode Island, in a special Convention for the purpose of reforming & strengthening our federal Government. An arduous Work! Genl. Washington Presides, & my Colleagues from Connecticut are Mr. Shearman & Mr. Elsworth. It is an affair of high & agitated Expectation throughout the Continent, but what will be the Issue of it no Man can yet foresee. I am so press’d in point of time that I must leave everything else to Majr. Alden who says he will write you particularly, & recommending you to the bless ing & protection of Almighty God, I remain with the tenderst Love, & Complimts to all Friends, Yr. most affectionate Father & Friend, Wm. Sami. Johnson RC (CtY: Stokes Autograph Collection). Addressed: “Samuel Wm. Johnson Esqr., Bermuda.” 'Johnson had last attended Congress May 3d and returned home the 4th. His diary indicates that he “Set out in Stage for Hartford, [and] Attended Genl. Assembly,” May 17-23, and “Set out again in Stage” for New York the 28th. “29th. Pleasant. Arrived early at N York.... 30th. Very Rainy. Visitd. Duane, Temple, &c. At Cong[res]s.... 31st. Did Business & rec’d many Visits till 2 O’Clock, came over the Ferry, dangerously high to Powles Hook in Cofmpany] with John Murry &c & came in the Stage to Elizth. Town, call’d on Mr. Boudinot... .June 1st. Rain & Fair, came to Philadelphia at 9 O’Clock, & Lodged at Dickenson’s.”Johnson Papers, CtHi.
