304 June 6, 1787 Greene, Mr. Houston. Mr. Baldwin will be added to them in a few days. Walton and Pendleton are also in the deputation. N. Hamshire has appointed Deputies but they are not expected; the State treasury being empty it is said, and a substitution of private resources being in convenient or impracticable. I mention this circumstance to take off the appearance of backwardness, which that State is not in the least chargeable with, if we are rightly informed of her disposition. Rhode Island has not yet acceded to the measure. As their Legislature meet very frequently, and can at any time be got together in a week, it is possible that caprice if no other motive may yet produce a unanimity of the States in this experiment. “In furnishing you with this list of names, I have exhausted all the means which I can make use of for gratifying your curiosity. It was thought expedient in order to secure unbiassed discussion within doors, and to prevent misconceptions & misconstructions without, to establish some rules of caution which will for no short time restrain even a confidential communication of our proceedings. The names of the members will satisfy you that the States have been serious in this business. The attendance of Genl. Washington is a proof of the light in which he regards it. The whole Community is big with expectation. And there can be no doubt but that the result will in some way or other have a powerful effect on our destiny. “Mr. Adams’ Book 3 which has been in your hands of course, has ex cited a good deal of attention. An edition has come out here and an other is in the press at N. York. It will probably be much read, particu larly in the Eastern States, and contribute with other circumstances to revive the predilections of this Country for the British Constitution. Men of learning find nothing new in it. Men of taste many things to criticize. And men without either not a few things, which they will not understand. It will nevertheless be read, and praised, and become a powerful engine in forming the public opinion. The name & charac ter of the Author, with the critical situation of our affairs, naturally ac count for such an effect. The book also has merit, and I wish many of the remarks in it, which are unfriendly to republicanism, may not re ceive fresh weight from the operations of our Governments. “I learn from Virga, that the appetite for paper money grows stronger every day. Mr. H—n—y 4 is an avowed patron of the scheme, and will not fail I think to carry it through unless the County [Prince Edward] 5 which he is to represent shall bind him hand and foot by instructions. I am told that this is in contemplation. He is also said to be unfriendly to an acceleration ofjustice. 6 There is good reason to beleive {too that he is hostile) 7 to {the object of the convention) and that {he wishes either a partition or total dissolution of the confederacy).” RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Rutland), 10:28-30.
