308 June 8, 1787 Hogshead of Skins that has been recived here in part pay for the Goods by me sold belonging to the State of North Carolina to Bryan Ward. The Linnens I ship on Board the Vessel commanded by the Bearer here of Captain Bartlet bound to New Bern to your Address and to the Care of Captain John Daves. I beg you will sell them or cause them to be sold on account of the State for the most obtainable in Mony or the Governor’s Warrants on the Treasury so as to have the Account of sales in hand by the Siting of the next Assembly that is if the Governor does not give you any Directions respecting them and if he does you will please attend to them in preference—a Desire that the Skins that are recived from Mr. Ward should refund to the Trea sury as much Mony as the Goods sold him cost has induced me to cause the Mony arising from the Sa [les] to be laid out in Goods here. Indeed the Skins would not have commanded more than 16d. per lb. at three Months Credit to have been paid for in Mony. Linnens I do not suppose will bear so high a profit as some other Articles but they will bear the highest that could be purchased for Skins at 18d per lb. and they are laid in as low as a Cent which is very low. I fear you will complain that I have put this Business in your hands but I beg you will excuse it and make or [cause] to be made by Som[e] Sure hand the b[est] possible sales of the Linnen. I am Your most Obt. serva[nt], Wm. Blount RC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). 1 This account and a brief note of this date from Blount to Gov. Richard Caswell ex plaining the receipt of this “fourth Hogshead of Deerskins” are in N.C. State Records, 20:719-21. Henry Lee to Beverley Randolph Sir. 1 New yorkjune 8th. 1787 I have to ask pardon for my omission in writing last week, and now beg leave to reply to your letters of the 19h & 28h of May. 2 The first relates to the detention of the indents for 86 & 87. 3 We feel very much distressed to know that our country is groaning under injurys, which we have no opportunity to attempt to releive her from. The remedy being solely in Congress and that body being for the pre sent out of session. The board of treasury are merely executive, and dare not exercise the power of altering resolutions committed to their conduct. The scheme of indents originated for the purpose of enabling the public to discharge the interest of the domestic debt, & is marked by
