June 8, 1787 309 three conditions which seem clearly to explain the natural operation & effect of this branch of the revenue system—viz—That indents shall be issued only to such state or states as may have passed the requisi tion, providing for its payment, adequate funds—That the payment of indents shall be in proportion to the payment of specie, & that they shall be receivable only in discharge of the requisition of the year, to which they were allotted. From the first condition it follows that indents cannot be issued to any state whose compliance with the requisition is not substantial and effective. If then the act of the Legislature of Virginia passed in the last session, is only a compliance in name, the board of treasury are bound to withhold the indents for the present year. If on the contrary the compliance is effective, the board has crimi nally neglected their duty, & deeply injured the state. The act of the assembly has been laid before congress, & will be the subject of their deliberation as soon as they re-assemble. Certain it is that our country has been grossly injured, & that the injury is attributable either to the Legislature, or to the board of treasury. The detention of the indents for the year ‘86 is authorized by the last of the three recited conditions, for the receipt of indents issued on the requisition of the 27h Septr. 85 is only admissible in payment of the taxes of that year & in the specified ballances stated in the re solve of the 12h Oct. of the same year, it being a fundamental princi ple of the revenue system that distinct appropriations shall be estab lished for the redemption of indents issued on distinct requisitions. The letr. of the 28h respects the pay of the third commissioner ap pointed in conformity to the resolve of Congress for adjusting the claims of Virginia against the union, for moneys expended and ser vices performed in the conquest & protection of the western territory. We communicated the purport of this letr. to the board of treasury, who in compliance with our wishes have been pleased to issue their order for two hundred dollars, in favor of the commissioner, deter mining to unite with the state in advances of money to this officer, un till the decision of Congress shall be had on the subject. This we trust will prevent any interruption in the concluding a business, which has already too long been neglected. I have the honor to be sir, with great respect & regard your most obt Henry Lee Junr. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Addressed: “The honl. B. Randolph esqr.” 1 Randolph (1754-1797) was president of the Virginia executive council and presided as lieutenant governor in the absence of Gov. Edmund Randolph who was attending the Philadelphia Convention. See Journals of the Virginia Council, 4:107. 2 Not in PCC. 3 For an explanation of this “detention,” see Virginia Delegates to Edmund Ran dolph, February 26, note 1.
