310 June 9, 1787 Edward Carrrington to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir New York June 9. 1787 I did myself the honor to address you by favor of Mr. Payne, in an swer to yours of the 16th January. 1 The proposed scheme of a convention has taken more general ef fect, and promises more solid advantages than was at first hoped for. All the States have elected representatives except Rhode Island, whose apostasy from every moral, as well as political, obligation, has placed her perfectly without the views of her confederates; nor will her ab sence, or nonconcurrence, occasion the least impediment in any stage of the intended business. On Friday the 25th Ult. seven States having assembled at Philadelphia, the Convention was formed by the election of General Washington President, and Major W. Jackson Secretary. The numbers have since encreased to 11 States—N. Hampshire has not yet arrived, but is daily expected. The Commissions of these Gentlemen go to a thorough reform of our confederation. Some of the States, at first, restricted their deputies to commercial objects, but have since liberated them. The latitude thus given, together with the generality of the Commission from the States, have doubtless operated to bring Genl. Washington forward, contrary to his more early determination. His conduct in both instances indicate a deep impression upon his mind, of the ne cessity of some material change. It belongs to his wisdom and weight of character to be averse to meddling in a fruitless attempt; and this must have been the case upon a confined ground, or a very partial representation of the States: it would have been equally inconsistent with his situation to come forward upon any occasion, except in the extremity of public necessity. In every public act he hazards, without a possibility of gaining, reputation. He already possesses everything to be derived from the love or confidence of a free people, yet it seems that it remained for himself to add a lustre to his character, by this pa triotic adventure of all, for his countries good alone. The importance of this event is every day growing in the public mind, and it will, in all probability, produce an happy era in our politi cal existence—taking a view of the circumstances which have occa sioned our calamities, and the present state of things and opinions, I am flattered with this prospect. Public events in the United States since the peace have given a cast to the American character, which is by no means its true countenance. Delinquencies of the States in their foederal obligations; acts of their legislatures violating public Treaties and private Contracts, and an universal imbecility in the public ad ministrations, it is true, form the great features of our political con duct; but these have resulted rather from constitutional defects, and accidental causes than the natural dispositions of the people. Desti-
