June 9, 1787 311 tute as the federal sovereignty is of coercive principle, backwardness in the component parts to comply with its recommendations, is natu ral and inevitable. Coercion in Government produces a double ef fect—while it compels the obedience of the refractory, it redoubles the alertness of the virtuous by inspiring a confidence in the impar tiality of its burthens. From defect of penalty, ideas of delinquency are inseparable. States, as well as individuals, will contemplate both to gether, and apprehensions of unequal performance, produce disgust and apathy throughout. The nefarious Acts of State Governments have proceeded not from the will of the people. Peace once obtained, men whose abilities and integrity had gained the intire popular confidence, whose zeal, or in dolence, in the public affairs, alike, moved, or lulled, the people, re tired from the busy scene, or at least acted with indifference. The news papers ceased to circulate with public information. Demagogues of desperate fortunes, mere adventurers in fraud, were left to act unop posed. Their measures, of course, either obtained the consent of the multitude, by misrepresentation, or assumed the countenance of popu larity because none said nay. Hence have proceeded paper money, breaches of Treaty &c. The ductility of the Multitude is fully evidenced in the case of the late tumults in Massachusetts. Men who were of good property, and owed not a shilling were involved in the train of desper ado’s to suppress the courts. A full representation of the public affairs from the General Court through the Clergy, has reclaimed so great a proportion of the deluded, that a Rebellion which a few months ago threatened the subversion of the Government is, by measures scarcely deserving the name of exertion, suppressed, and one decided act of authority would eradicate it forever. In this experiment it is proved that full intelligence of the public affairs not only would keep the people right, but will set them so after they have got wrong. Civil Liberty, in my opinion, never before took up her residence in a country so likely to afford her a long and grateful protection as the United States. A people more generally enlightened than any other under the Sun, and in the habits of owning, instead of being mere tenants in, the Soil, must be proportionably alive to her sacred rights, and quallified to guard them; and I am persuaded that the time is fast approaching when all these advantages will have their fullest influ ence. Our tendency to anarchy and consequent despotism is felt, and the alarm is spreading. Men are brought into action who had con signed themselves to an eve of rest, and the Convention, as a Beacon, is rousing the attention of the Empire. The prevailing impression as well, in as out of, Convention, is, that a federal Government adapted to the permanent circumstances of the Country, without respect to the habits of the day, be formed, whose ef ficiency shall pervade the whole Empire: it may, and probably will, at
