June 9, 1787 315 tween the British and French Nations—the parties say “if any prince make war on France or England they will join their forces,” & they say, “English ships may lade in any of the dominions of France” 8c the next Art. Englishmen “dying in France” shall not be subject to the Droit d. Aubaine, &c. They speak of the enemy of France—Enemy of England— king of France—king of Spain—king of England, &c. repeatedly in this and other treaties, when binding the respective Nations. Literally speaking, there was no king of England—no king of France, could be no enemy of England or enemy of France—in the treaty of 1678 Be tween the French 8c Dutch Nations. The parties say—’’the subjects of each party in the Dominions of the other” shall be exempt from the law of Aubaine 8c other similar duties. Here it may be observed the ex emption and expression were coextensive with the subject or reason of the Case—but in the same treaty they say “if any breach shall hap pen between France 8c Holland then &c”—France here must mean something more than a certain tract of Country called France, apart of the French Dominions or of the French Nation—and were it not a fact—one would hardly conceive a Dutch negociator would use the world [word] Holland, the name of a single province, to convey the idea of his nation. In the treaty of Utrecht between the British 8c French Nations—the parties say there shall be liberty of Commerce between their subjects in all their kingdoms, States, Dominions & provinces in Europe. But by the 8 & 13 arts it is clear the respective subjects in their enjoying the benefits of the most favored Nation and exemptions from the law of Aubain are not confined to the kingdoms &c in Europe. The first they have expressly “in all Countries 8c places subject to either power”—the last “within the Dominions and any other places belonging to the Queen of Gr. Britain and to the Most Ch. King.” It may deserve notice that this treaty makes those benefits and exemptions more extensive than the liberty of trade. The words kingdoms in Europe, Countries in Europe, Dominions in Eu rope have been used with more attention, and meaning, but in several Cases the words in Europe have been clearly inadvertently inserted— and relative to the law of Aubaine or alienage the restrictive words, “in Europe” are used in but very few treaties, and, I believe, in none with any particular meaning unless they are in the family Compact of 1761. In that the words, in France, in Spain, in the Spanish Dominions in Eu rope—in the two kingdoms in Europe seem to be repeated with a mean ing—when speaking at will of the subject of the treaty as of the ex emptions from that law—tis possible the French may urge this as a reason for a limited construction of our treaty—but there is a clear distinction in the words 8c principles of the two treaties which I shall mention hereafter. We are naturally led to examine our treaty with France and other treaties in point—to consider the objects and views of the parties—the
