June 9,1787 317 eral law of Nations—it grew up in barbarous times, when it was thought best to have little or no intercourse with foreigners and is to tally opposed to the Commerce and liberality of modern times. It has long been almost a matter of Course in all commercial, and friendly treaties, to provide agt. the operations, severe and unusual effects of this law—and tho in many treaties the liberties of free trade, have been limited, by the parties, to certain Countries, &c. Yet the exemp tions from this law have, usually, been general, and extended to all their dominions. This was the Case in the Treaty of Utrecht before mentioned. By our treaty with the Dutch we cannot trade to their East and West India ports, &c. but by the 6 art we enjoy these exemptions in all their Dominions & our effects will pass to our heirs, &c. There is a like principle in the Swedish treaty—the like may be seen in other treaties. It is true in the family Compact this does not seem to be the Case. The liberties of trade, and these exemptions in it, appear to be lim ited to the French & Spanish European ports—but it may be remarked that this singular treaty does not extend any commercial or other in tercourse between the subjects of the two Nations beyond their Euro pean dominions and this was rather a treaty of offensive & defensive alliance than any thing else. The declared object of our treaty with France was Amity, Commerce and a perfect equality. It clearly admits an idea which must have very considerable weight in the Construction of it, even admitting the lim ited sense of the 4th art that we have no claims to trade to the French West Indies, &c. tho other nations should be admitted there—inde pendent of a fair constructive claim of reciprocity in this respect. The treaty admits the fact that our Citizens on the liberal principles of in tercourse with all French subjects, may be and have property in all French ports as well in those that are not called free as those that are—by the 19th the subjects of either party, may carry, freely, their prize effects &c. into all the ports, of the other, and depart with them when they please. The suggestion that we had no law of Aubene, and that therefore, this exemption on the part of France, was gratuitous and without an equivalent, does not appear to me to have much weight in it. The treaty when considered must appear clearly to have the same effect in this respect as to both parties. France gave up nothing; she resigned no effects of our Citizens; she stipulated only, that in future she would not seize the effects of our Citizens dying in her Dominions. We agreed to a perfect reciprocity; that is, Stipulated that we would not seize the effects of her subjects dying in our dominions. Tho we had no law of Aubene, we could at any time have made one if we had not been restrained by the treaty.
