322 June 10,1787 for the present year; and cannot but flatter myself that you will have so respectable a number of your own Sentiments that you will be able to check the madness of Democracy, and hold the political ship at least where she is, if you shall not be able to manage her agreeably to your own just Opinions. Moderation and firmness will be essential in your Measures; I wish you may have as good a proportion of these excellent qualities as truly characterise our Convention. I know you are anxious, in common with the virtuous and reflecting Characters of every State, to be informed of the Dispositions and projects which have shewn themselves in the Convention. Be a little patient; I think there is some foundation to hope for Good. I am precluded from communicating, even confidentially, any particulars of the proceedings. However I shall ask your opinion by an early post on some points of consequence, which must receive a Discussion in the Convention; the Questions must be made to you in confidence, and may serve to give you some Idea of what will be contended for by a respectable number of politi cal Characters. Farewel—Remember that the Character, nay the most important Interest of Mass, is concerned in their sending men of Con sequence, and not Dunces to Congress. Probably the most important considirations may be under the deliberations of the next Congress— the public Debt, the Claims of the several states, and a number of other Objects equally interesting & consequential. Once more Farewel, R King [PS.] I am very much pleased wth. Mr. Strong, his mind is what it shd. be. RC (MHi: Sedgwick Papers). James Madison to James Monroe Philada. June 10. 1787. “I have been discouraged from answering sooner your favor of 1 by the bar which opposes such communica tions as I should incline not less to make than you must do to receive. One of the earliest rules established by the Convention restrained the members from any disclosure whatever of its proceedings, a restraint which will not probably be removed for some time. I think the rule was a prudent one not only as it will effectually secure the requisite freedom of discussion, but as it will save both the Convention and the Community from a thousand erroneous and perhaps mischievous re ports. I feel notwithstanding great mortification in the disappoint ment it obliges me to throw on the curiosity of my friends. The Con vention is now as full as we expect it to be unless a report should be
