324 June 11,17875 out doors what they are doing. I shall leave this in a few days to take my Seat among them. Please present my Compliments to Mrs. Clay and believe me with much esteem, Your most Obedient Humble servant, Wm. Blount RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Addressed: “Joseph Clay esquire, Savannah.” 1 This letter is in Blount, Papers (Keith), pp. 293-94. 2 For the copy of this account that William sent to his brother John Gray Blount, see ibid., p. 308. 3 Blount’s enclosure shows the sale of 3 hogsheads of deerskins, containing 400, 288, and 252 skins each, for £76.16.4, £61.17.2, and £63.1.6, respectively. Gratz Collection, PHi. Nathan Dane to Caleb Davis Sir, New York June the 12th 1787. I had the honor of receiving the Secretary’s letter of the 25th Ulto. accompanied with an extract from the Honble. Mr Sedgwick’s letter of the 17th Ulto. both relative to the late conduct of the rebels, who have fled from Massachusetts into this State; and the former request ing the Delegates to communicate to his Excellency Governor Clinton the extracts of Mr. Sedgwick’s letter. As my Colleagues were at Philadelphia, I immediately made that communication, and had some convirsation with Governor Clinton on the subject of it. I have since seen him and the Attorney General together on the same subject. They appeared to be clearly of opinion, that the laws of this State, take cognizance of the offences of those rebels, who, in armed parties, or in a hostile manner, make incursions into Massachusetts, or bring from that Commonwealth its Inhabitants, or their effects into this State, in the lawless manner mentioned, and amply to provide for the punishment of those offences; as also for the punishment of the Citi zens of this State, who conceal, aid or encourage those incursions or hostile proceedings. 1 They appeared also to be fully impressed with a sense of the pernicious consequences of suffering men who seem to possess but imperfect ideas of the true principles, blessings and sacred rights of society, by time to acquire and Strengthen habits so hostile and injurious to order and good government. They assured me, the Ascertainment of facts only was wanting to this Government’s taking prompt and effectual measures to prevent the further progress of the evils and crimes complained of. The rebels have connexions in this State, and no doubt, friends who conceal, protect and countenance them; but they are supposed to be so dis persed about in private families, and they, and their friends, so far concealed, that no military force, at present, can be brought to act, to
