June 12,1787 325 any valuable purpose against them. The best measures, therefore to be adopted, are supposed to be, those of decidedly carrying the laws of this State into execution, and to direct the Courts of law, Magis trates, Jurors, &c. as early as may be to ascertain facts, so as to form particular charges against individuals among the rebels and their abet tors, guilty of the offences before mentioned, and to prosecute them without delay. Directions, I understand, were sometime since, given to this purpose, and will be further urged immediately. Information re ceived from that part of the Country, upon examination, is often found to be erroneous, and for want of particular information of of fences committed by known individuals, those Courts and Officers cannot, it seems, proceed effectually to punish them. Tho well dis posed, there is, perhaps, in this, as in all, especially elective Govern ments popular or timid feelings in many Officers, that induce them to be less prompt in executing the laws against offenders in Cases like the present. As soon as charges can be fixed on individuals, they will, I am assured, be arrested, this must reduce the offenders to order and due obedience to Government, or force them to collect together; if the latter the magistrates have been assured of having a sufficient force immediately collected and ordered out to subdue opposition. The Government of this State appears to be disposed, to co-operate with the Government of Massachusetts on the present Occasion, and any evidence of facts, it was observed, tending to fix the crimes com plained of, and cognizable by the laws of this State, upon the proper individuals, should receive every degree of Attention. Perhaps, offi cers and individuals in Massa, acquainted with the characters and par ticular crimes of these armed parties can furnish evidence of certain facts, So as to expedite the operation of the laws of this State. I con ceive it is understood as well by this State, as by Massachusetts, that all the crimes committed in this State are punishable by those laws, and that the perpetrators of crimes in Massachusetts, fleeing to this State, when charged and demanded on the principles of the Confederation, must be taken up by this State and conveyed to that. The Governor of this State has ample powers in the present Case—and I feel Strongly impressed with this beleif, that every Government in the union must highly resent the conduct of armed parties, not only become open Enemies to the governments lately established by their’s and the com mon consent of the people, but also mere robbers. Nor does it fail to excite the attention of those Governments to see men collected and armed against them, and attempting to give law in an extensive and Strong Country—men well known to pay but little respect to rights and obligations, religious or civil, whose armed connexions seem to form their hopes and importance, & who may become very trouble some to the other parts of the Confederacy, if not early brought back to their duty.
