328 June 12,1787 Kaskaskies & Post Vinc[en]t are in the most unsettled situation. They complain (& in my opinion with great justice) that Congress notwith standing their frequent applications, has [(]ever since the cession of Virginia) suffered them to remain in a state of nature, with [ou] t law, government or protection; & they talk very strongly of becoming Spanish subjects. 3 I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, Yr. Most Obed servt., Willm. Grayson. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 Lt. Gov. Randolph’s letter of June 2 enclosed an appeal from Gen. Evan Shelby, commander of the militia in the Washington district of North Carolina, to Gen. William Russell, commander of the militia in southwest Virginia. Shelby and Gov. Richard Caswell had become greatly alarmed at the behavior of officials in the self-pro- claimed state of Franklin. “The New state party are now falling on the Civil officers of Government with men in arms, and wresting their property from them, forcibly and contrary to law.” What was worse, the Franklin assembly was taking possession of and selling lands reserved to the Indians by the North Carolina Assembly, actions that would inevitably result in a general Indian war. Indeed, these “unprovoked Insurrec tions” by the Franklinites threatened “to dissolve even the very bands of the fcederal Union.” In case North Carolina’s militia did not arrive in time, Shelby intended to call on Russell for direct assistance. In his covering letter, Randolph instructed the dele gates to lay the matter before Congress so that Virginia would be better prepared to “take Measures. . .most conducive to the peace of the United States.” The letters were not submitted to Congress until July 6, two days after Congress finally mustered a quo rum, when they were referred to the Secretary at War to report. That same day Con gress also referred several other letters to Gen. Henry Knox concerning the state of the western country and relations with the Indians. The problem of the Franklin insurrec tions thus became caught up in the general question of Indian unrest. See JCC, 32:307n.3; PCC, item 71, 2:531-38; Cal. of Va. Stale Papers, 4:274-75; and Samuel C. Williams, History of the Lost State of Franklin, rev. ed. (New York: Press of the Pioneers, 1933), pp. 140-48. For General Knox’sjuly 11 report, see Grayson to Randolph, June 25, note 1. 2 See, for example, these Letters, 22:117-20, 434-37. 3 John Cleves Symmes’ May 3 letter was read in Congress on July 6 and referred to the secretary at war to report, for which see JCC, 32:307n. Edward Carrington to James Madison Dear Sir, New York June 13. 1787 I am favoured with yours of the 10th Instant 1 and thank you for it. Be good enough to pay Major George Turner, if he is still in the City, £4.5.6 Pensylvania Currency, and, at your leisure, send me the bal ance of the 100 dollars by some freind who may be coming here. It will, however, be unnecessary for you to put yourself to the least in convenience to do so. Nothing yet of the remittance from South Car-
