June 18,1787 333 MS not found; reprinted from Theophilus Parsons, Memoir of Theophilus Parsons, Chief Justice of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts (Boston: Tichnor and Fields, 1859), pp. 461-62. 1 Parsons was identified in these Letters, 20:143n. James M. Varnum to George Washington Sir New York June 18th 1787 The enclosed address, of which I presume your excellency has re- ceved a duplicate, was returned to me, from N York, after my arrival in this State. 1 I flattered myself that our Legislature, which convened on Monday last, would have receded from the resolution therein referred to, and have complied with the recommendation of Congress in send ing delegates to the Federal Convention. The Upper house or Gover nor & Council, embraced the measure, but it was negatived in the house of Assembly by a large majority, notwithstanding that the great est exertions were made to support it. 2 Being disappointed in their expectations, the minority in the ad ministration and all the worthy citizens in the state, whose minds are well informed, regreting the peculiarities of their situation, place their fullest confidence in the wisdom and moderation of the national council, and indulge the warmest hopes of being favorably considered in their deliberations. From these deliberations they anticipate a polit ical system which must finally be adopted & from which will result the safety, the honor and the happiness of the United States. Permit me, sir, to observe, that the measures of our present Legis lature do not exhibit the real character of the state. They are equally reprobated & abhorred by gentlemen of the learned professions, by the whole mercantile body, & by the most respectable farmers & merchanics. The Majority of the administration are composed of a li centious body of men, destitute of education & many of them void of principle. From anarchy & confusion they derive a temporary consequence & this they endeavor to prolong by debauching the minds of the common people whose attention is wholly directed to the abolition of debts, public & private. With these are associated the disaffected of every description, particularly those who were un friendly during the war. Their paper money system, founded in op pression & fraud, they are determined to support at every hazard; and rather than relinquish their favorite pursuit, they trample upon the most sacred obligations. As a proof of this they refused to com ply with the requisition of Congress for repealing all laws repugnant to the treaty of peace with Great Britain; and urged as their princi pal reason, that it would [be] Calling in question the propriety of their former measure.
