334 June 18,1787 These may be attributed partly to the extreme freedom of our Con stitution and partly to the want of energy in the federal Union; and it is greatly to be apprehended that they cannot be speedily removed, but by uncommon and very serious exertions. It is fortunate, how ever, that the wealth and resources of the state are cheifly in posses sion of the well effected, and that they are entirely devoted to the public good. I have the honor to be, Sir, with the greatest veneration & esteem, Your excellency’s very obedient and most faithful servant, J M Varnum Tr (RHi: Updike Papers). In a clerical hand, and endorsed: “Letter from James M Var num of R Island to the President of the Convention, Inclosing the subjoined communi cation from certain citizens of R Island, to the Federal Convention.” 1 This address, dated “Providence, May 11, 1787,” is in The Records of the Constitu tional Convention of 1787, RG360, M866, DNA; and Farrand, Records of the Federal Con vention, 3:18—19. “Gentlemen, Since the Legislature of this State have finally declined sending Dele gates to meet you in Convention for the purposes mentioned in the Resolve of Con gress of the 21st February 1787, the Merchants, Tradesmen, and Others of this Place, deeply Affected with the evils of the present unhappy times, have thought proper to communicate in Writing their approbation of your Meeting, And their regret that it will fall short of a Compleat representation of the Federal Union. ‘The failure of this State was owing to the nonconcurrence of the Upper House of Assembly with a Vote passed in the Lower House, for Appointing Delegates to attend the said Convention, at their Session Holden at Newport, on the first Wednesday of the present Month. “It is the general Opinion here, and we believe of the well informed throughout this State, that full power for the regulation of the Commerce of the United States, both for eign and Domestick, ought to be vested in the National Council. And that Effectual Ar rangements should also be made for giving operation to the present powers of Con gress in their Requisitions upon the States for National purposes. “As the object of this Letter is chiefly to prevent any impressions unfavourable to the Commercial Interest of this State, from takeing place in our Sister States, from the Cir cumstance of our being unrepresented in the present National Convention, we shall not presume to enter into any detail of the objects we hope your deliberations will em brace and provide for, being Convinced they will be such as have a Tendency to Strengthen the Union, to promote Commerce, increase the power, and Establish the Credit of the United States. “The result of your deliberations tending to these desireable purposes, we still hope may finally be approved & adopted by this State; for which we pledge our Influence & best exertions. This will be delivered you by the Honourable James M. Varnum, Esquire, who will Communicate (with your permission) in person, more particularly our Senti ments on the Subject matter of our Address. “In behalf of the Merchants, Tradesmen, &c, We have the Honour to be....” It was signed by Jabez Bowen, Nicholas Brown, John Jenckes, Welcome Arnold, William Russell, Jeremiah Olney, William Barton, Thomas Lloyd Halsey, John Brown, Joseph Nightingale, Levi Hall, Philip Allen, and Paul Allen. 2 For a discussion of “Rhode Island’s alienation from the Union” at this time and the meaning of its refusal to send delegates to the Constitutional Convention, see Pol ishook, Rhode Island and the Union, pp. 182-89. The state was also unrepresented in Con gress, although a single delegate was present on a few occasions, from April 26, 1787, to June 2, 1788. See the Appendixes of this and the following volume of these Letters.
