June 22, 1787 339 Nathan Dane to Nathaniel Gorham Dear Sir. New Yorkjune 22. 1787 The inclosed paper I believe contains all that has been done of any importance by the General Court during their present Session. I imag ine the Yeas & nays as they stand on the resolve of the 13th are true evidence of the disposition of the House 1 —those in the negative ar gued that the troops were unnecessary—probably they thought so— but I think you will not be at a loss to discover the principle on which they acted and formed their opinions when you shall cast your eye upon the accurate division of men—men on the one hand that have been for years steady in support of Government &c—on the other men who for years have opposed taxes, proposed paper money, ten der laws, &c. Dr. Holten has arrived—and I wish the officers of Congress and members not engaged in the Convention would return to New York. I do not know how it may be in the Southern States—but, I assure you, the present State of Congress has a very disagreeable effect in the Eastern States. The people hear of a Convention in Philada. and that Congress is done sitting, &c. Many of them are told, it seems, that Congress will never meet again probably—Dr. H. says he saw several sober men who had got an idea that the people were to be called on to take arms to carry into effect immediately the report of the Con vention &c. I see no help for men’s being so absurd & distracted—but these things have a pernicious effect on the industry, peace, & habits of the people. Are not the printers imprudent to publish so many con tradictory pieces about the proceedings of your body which must be mere conjecture? You know many people always believe all they see in the new papers without the least examination. It appears to me that Congress at this time especially ought to be together & doing business as usual, and if we mean to avoid convulsions those appearances which to the unthinking look so much like abandoning the estab lished Government ought not to be suffered to take place. To be here idle in the present situation of things is become extremely painful and I hope you will [use] your influence with Mr. Meredith, Hawkins, &c, &c to return to Congress. Your affecte. friend, N. Dane RC (MHi: Washburn Collection). 1 This vote was on “the resolve reported by the Committee appointed to consider the expediency of repealing the disqualifying act & for raising a number of troops not ex ceeding eight hundred nor less than five hundred men to be stationed in the western counties, and for pardoning all persons concerned in the late [S/iays] rebellion except ing as therein mentioned,” which was adopted 108 to 100. See ‘Journal of the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, commencing Wednesday 30 May 1787,” DLC(ESR), pp. 60-63.
