358 July 16, 1787 may be acquainted with our proceedings. We have been much engaged in business for ten or twelve days past for a part of which we have had 8 States. There appears to be a disposition to do business, and the arrival of R. H. Lee is of considerable importance. I think his character serves, at least in some degree, to check the effects of the feeble habits and lax modes of thinking in some of his Countrymen. We have been em ployed about several objects—the principal ones of which have been the Government inclosed and the Ohio purchase. 1 The former you will see is completed and the latter will be probably completed tomor row. We tried one day to patch up M—s 2 Systems of W. Governt — Started new Ideas and committed the whole to Carrington, Dane, R. H. Lee, Smith, & Kean—we met several times and at last agreed on some principles at least Lee, Smith & myself. We found ourselves rather pressed, the Ohio Company appeared to purchase a large tract of the federal lands, about 6 or 7 million of acres—and we wanted to abolish the old system and get a better one for the Government of the Country—and we finally found it necessary to adopt the best system we could get. All agreed finally to the inclosed except A. Yates—he ap peared in this Case, as in most other not to understand the subject at all. I think the number of free Inhabitants 60,000, which are requisite for the admission of a new State into the Confederacy is too small, but having divided the whole territory into 3 States, this number appeared to me to be less important, each State in the Common Course of things must become important soon after it shall have that number of Inhabitants. The eastern State of the 3 will probably be the first, and more important than the rest—and, will no doubt be settled cheifly by Eastern people, and there is, I think, full an equal chance of it’s adopt ing Eastern politics. When I drew the ordinance which passed (in a few words excepted) as I originally formed it, I had no idea the States would agree to the sixth Art. prohibiting Slavery—as only Massa, of the Eastern States was present—and therefore omitted it in the draft—but finding the House favourably disposed on this subject, after we had completed the other parts I moved the art—which was agreed to with out opposition. 3 We are in a fair way to fix the terms of our Ohio sale, &c. We have been upon it three days Steadily. The magnitude of the purchase makes us very cautious about the terms of it, and the security necessary to ensure the performance of them. We have directed the board to enquire into and report on Holker’s affairs &c. 4 Massa. Legisa. was prorogued the 7th inst. having continued the tender act, as it is called, to Jan. 1, 1788 & having passed no other act of importance except what, I presume, you have seen respecting the raising of troops and the powers of the Governor to pursue the re bells, &c.
