360 July 18, 1787 RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 For this “decision,” see William Grayson to Randolph, June 25, note 1; and Charles Thomson to Randolph, July 23. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Philada. July 18. 1787. “The Convention continue to sit, and have been closely employed since the Commence [me] nt of the Session. I am still under the mortification of being restrained from disclosing any part of their proceedings. As soon as I am at liberty I will endeavor to make amends for my silence, and if I ever have the pleasure of see ing you shall be able to give you pretty full gratification. I have taken lengthy notes of every thing that has yet passed, and mean to go on with the drudgery, if no indisposition obliges me to discontinue it. It is not possible to form any judgment of the future duration of the Ses sion. I am led by sundry circumstances to guess that the residue of the work will not be very quickly dispatched. The public mind is very im patient for the event, and various reports are circulating which tend to inflame curiosity. I do not learn however that any discontent is ex pressed at the concealment; and have little doubt that the people will be as ready to receive as we shall be able to propose, a Government that will secure their liberties & happiness. “I am not able to give you any account of what is doing at N. York. Your correspondents there will no doubt supply the omission. The paper money here ceased to circulate very suddenly a few days ago. It had been for some time vibrating between a depreciation of 12 & of 20 Per Ct. Its entire stagnation is said to have proceeded from a com bination of a few people with whom the Country people deal on mar ket days, agst. receiving it. The consequence was that it was refused in the market, and great distress brought on the poorer Citizens. Some of the latter began in turn to form Combinations of a more serious nature in order to take revenge on the supposed authors of the stag nation. The timely interposition of some influential characters pre vented a riot, and prevailed on the persons who were opposed to the paper, to publish their willingness to receive it. This has stifled the popular rage, and got the paper into circulation again. It is however still considerably below par, and must have reed a wound which will not easily be healed. 1 Nothing but evil springs from this imaginary money wherever it is tried, and yet the appetite for it where it has not been tried, continues to be felt. There is great reason to fear that the bitterness of the evil must be tasted in Virga, before the appetite there will be at an end. “The Wheat harvest throughout the Continent has been uncom monly fine both in point of quantity & quality. The crops of Corn &
