July 19, 1787 363 surveying] the Lands west of the Ohio. 6 Daily Accounts from Ken- tuckey prove the Indians are hostile in that quarter and by the Report of the Superintendent from the Creeks there is much Reason to fear Hostilities will shortly commence between them and the Citizens of Georgia. There has been at Philadelphia a Mr. Drungold with a Cherokee & John Woods with a Chickasaw & Choctaw and have all re turned, the two latter by way of Fort Pitt, the former complained loudly against the Infraction of the Treaty at Hopewell in as much as that the Whites had settled within a few Miles of their towns, and within that part assigned them by the State of N.Ca. I would wish the Whites had forborn there Settlements on that part—the other two complained that Trade had not been sent among them as they were taught to expect and that they were suffering for the Want of the promised Supplies, in Short We have three Reports from the Secre tary at War, on Indian Afairs, one in particular which is the Subject of this day recommends the Stationing Continental Troops on the Ohio in different parts as low as the Rapids and the Calling out Militia on Continental pay to protect the Kentuckey and other Inhabitants on the east side of the Ohio. 7 FC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). In the hand of William Blount. 1 Recipient conjectured from the following endorsement in Blount’s hand. “The fore going a Copy or rather the rough original of a piece of writing this day forwarded by Water via New Bern to the friend of its Writer at Kinston.” Edmund C. Burnett mistak enly identified John Gray Blount as the recipient (Burnett, Letters, 8:623), an attribution challenged by the editor of the Blount Papers, who called attention to Blount’s endorse ment and the significance of Caswell’s residence at Kinston. Blount, Papers (Keith), pp. 321-22n. 2 The July 19 issue of the New York Journal and Weekly Register reprinted this letter to Benjamin Hawkins under the heading “Extract of a letter to the Hon. B. H. dated at Nashville, in Davidson county, May 1, 1787.” 3 That is, Hugh Williamson. 4 See the letters of Blount and Hawkins to Governor Caswell of July 10. 5 That is, William R. Davie, one of North Carolina’s delegates to the Constitutional Convention. 6 Congress actually received “yesterday” two letters from Joseph Brant—of December 18, 1786, to Henry Knox, and of May 16, 1787 to Richard Buder. But it was the enclo sure in the former, “a Speech from our united Confederacy,” which provided the fuel for Blount’s alarm, for the enclosed speech requested Congress “to order your Survey ors and others that mark out Lands, to cease from crossing the Ohio” until a treaty could be held in the spring, and pledged the “United force” of their confederacy “if the plan which we have suggested to you should not be carried out.” See PCC, item 150, 2:381—404. This “Speech of the United Indian Nations” was endorsed by chiefs of “The Five Nations, Hurons, Shawanese, Delawares, Ottawas, Chippewas, Poutewatimies, Thwichtwees, Cherokees, [and] The Wabash Confederates.” For the context of the con gressional reception of Brant’s letter and enclosure, see William Grayson to Beverley Randolph, June 25 note 1. 7 See JCC, 32:327-32, 365-75.
