368 July 22, 1787 will certainly do my endeavor to have Colo. Smith appointed Charge des Affairs at the Court of London, if such shd. be the plan fixt on. My compliments if you please to Colo. Smith. I hope to hear from you e’er long, because I am always happy to do so, being with the most un feigned affection and the truest regard my dear Cousin, Yours forever, Richard Henry Lee. P.S. July 30. The want of 9 states prevents a determination on Mr. Adams’s business by this packet, so that we do not know the future ar rangement. I enclose you my dear Cousin a letter for our relation the Bishop of Chester. It may bring you acquainted with a Learned and worthy Man—farewell. R.H.L. Remember me to Dr. Cutting. Mr. Blane may be met with on the Royal Exchange Virginia walk. Seal the Bishops letter before delivery. RC (DLC: Shippen Family Papers). 1 Shippen, the son of Lee’s sister Alice, was in London studying law at the Inner Temple. Virginia Delegates to Beverley Randolph Si r> New York July 22. 1787 We do ourselves the honor to inclose a report of the Treasury Board, upon the Governors letter of the 18th of April, upon the sub ject of the Indents for 1786. 1 The same disposition to the ease of the people which induced Con gress at the time of making the requisition, to admit Indents in pay ment of such part of it, as is for the Interest of the domestic debt, must, doubtless, now induce a favorable ear to the complaint of a State, that those facilities are withheld by the Executive officers of the United States. In pursuance of this disposition the complaint of Vir ginia was referred to the Treasury Board for their answer. This is com posed of a statement of facts, drawn from the Acts of the State; the in formation of the Loan Officer; and actual experiments upon some of the Acts, in former requisitions: the result of this Statement is, that the funds appropriated for the payment of the requisition, are greatly deficient. Neither Congress, nor the delegation of the State, are in possession of sufficient knowledge of the productiveness of those funds, for ascertaining the propriety or unpropriety of this report; nor is it to be expected that Congress will supercede it, without evidence of its being wrong. Conceiving it to be our duty, to procure an oppor tunity for this to be done on the part of the State, we have obtained, and now transmit, this Copy of the Report. 2 Should the Executive find it practicable to oppose to it sufficient evidence of the adequacy of the Funds, we shall be ready to lay it before Congress, and are convinced
