July 25, 1787 373 by Mr. Gardner, but unfortunately missed the last post. They are now enclosed, and as I cannot serve you in the Business, I am glad that it coincides with your desire, and am, Sir, Your very humble Servant, Ar. St. Clair RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1907). 1 St. Clair had returned to Congress on July 17 after a prolonged absence, which he noted by explaining his delay in responding to Wendell. His congressional career ended in October 1787. 2 Not identified, but undoubtedly related to the issue discussed in his May 20 letter to Wendell, for which see St. Clair to Wendell, March 27, note 4. 3 The British consul general to the United States. Edward Carrington to James Madison Dear Sir, New York July 25. 1787 I was favoured with yours inclosing a letter for Mr. Jefferson, which I delivered, agreably to your request, to Chevalier Jones 1 —his business with Congress is not finished, and therefore he has not gone with the packet, which sailed this morning. No passenger was going whose per sonal delivery of the letter could be relied upon, and it seems the Capt. could not take it, otherwise than in the Mail. Not knowing it to be matter of indifference with you, whether it should be exposed to inspection or not, it has been determined, in a conference between the Chevalier & myself, that he should keep it until his own departure, which he expects will be in a short time. I reed, by Colo. R H Lee Ninety dollars which, with the sum you was good enough to pay Major Turner for me, sets us even. Your acknowl edgement for the 100 dollars is enclosed. We are trying to do something with our Western Territory to make it useful to the purposes for which the United States were vested with it. You have seen in the papers the scheme for the temporary as well as perpetual Government of it. A practicable measure for the sale of it, or rather, by means of it to redeem the domestic debt, remains still to be agreed upon, and I fear the difficulties which have always stood in the way of this great object, are not yet to be surmounted. 2 Colo Lee joins Grayson & myself with great zeal, but what will be the issue of our efforts I know not. Indian affairs wear an hostile aspect, and money must, in all proba bility, be expended in Treaties with them. A general confederacy is formed of all the Nations & Tribes from the Six Nations inclusive, to the Mississippi under the immediate influence of Brandt. A general Council has been held in form, near Detroit, as long ago as last De cember, in which have been considered as greivances, our Surveying over the Ohio, the Cessions being made by only parts of the Tribes
