July28, 1787 377 wish to leave him here. He will be provided in the first instance with Cash for the first quarter but the Col. proposes to write you by the young Gentleman. Mr. Wilson, has not time to wait as the Stage sets out immediately—which prevents me at this time from sundry matters I intended. I am in haste, Dr. Colo, Your friend & Servt, Wm. Irvine RC (PCarlD: Founders Collection). Addressed: “Col. Robert Magaw, Carlisle.” 1 A July 7 memorial from a committee (which included Magaw) of the board of trustees of Dickinson College, proposing “renting or purchasing a part of the public Buildings near Carlisle, for the use of said College,” was read July 19 and referred the following day to a committee consisting of William Bingham, Edward Carrington, Abra ham Clark, William Few, and Irvine. The committee recommended July 23 that the sec retary at war be authorized to sell all the public buildings at Carlisle “which may not in his opinion be necessary for public use,” but not until October 17 did Congress autho rize the board of treasury to carry out this recommendation—"on the best terms that can be obtained.” See PCC, item 42, 7:489-92; and JCC, 32:375n, 380, 33:401, 691. 2 That is, Benjamin Grayson Orr. 3 At this point Irvine inserted an asterisk to which he keyed the following note at the foot of the letter: “it is said he has an extraordinary capacity.” Richard Henry Lee to Gilbert Blane New York, July 28, 1787. Sir, Your brother transmitted to me the valuable present that you were pleased to make me of your excellent book on the diseases of seamen, 1 which I have read with much pleasure and instruction. It is certainly a business of great philanthropy to contribute to the health and ease of so valuable and so exposed a part of our species. I pray you, sir, to accept of my thanks for your politeness, and give me leave to assure you, that I am with much esteem and regard, sir, your most obedient and very humble servant, Richard Henry Lee. MS not found; reprinted from Richard H. Lee, Memoir of the Life of Richard Henry Lee..., 2 vols. (Philadelphia: H. C. Carey and I. Lea, 1825), 2:73. Addressed: “Dr. Blane, Physi cian to his royal highness the Prince of Wales, &c. &c. &c.” 1 That is, Sir Gilbert Blane’s Observations on the Diseases Incident to Seamen (London: J. Cooper, 1785). James Madison to James Madison, Sr. Philada. July 28. 1787. “I am sorry that I cannot gratify your wish to be informed of the proceedings of the Convention. An order of se- cresy leaves me at liberty merely to tell you that nothing definitive is yet done, that the Session will probably continue for some time yet,
