July 30, 1787 379 would be much obliged if some of those, into whose hands you may put them would, after trying the experiments hinted at, favour me or the public with an account of the success. Farming is a branch of natu ral philosophy and it is only by experiments that we can hope for suc cess in improving it. A few successful experiments clearly pointed out are better than a whole volume of theory. I am told that some people in the northern parts of this state & in Connecticut have sowed a kind of wheat which they call the white bearded wheat & which baffles the attacks of the Hessian fly. Nay I am informed that small patches of it sown amongst the other wheat have remained uninjured & produced a plentiful crop, while the common wheat around it has been wholly destroyed. I see also mention made in the newspaper that soaking the wheat seed before sowing in a decoction of Alder has preserved the wheat from the ravages of the fly. These experiments are worth at tending to, as the fly appears to be advancing into the Country. There are no persons yet in nomination for the Offices you Men tion. 2 I shall be sorry if any of the worthy French inhabitants suffer by the article against slavery in the western Country; 3 but I am so much a friend to that article that let the consequences be what they may I would not wish it altered. Mrs. T. joins in Compliments to Mrs. Morgan, Miss Nancy, yourself & the rest of the family. I am Dear Sir, Your obedt. humble Servt., Cha Thomson RC (DLC: Morgan Papers). 1 For Thomson’s 38-page tract Notes on Farming (New York: 1787), see Evans, Am. Bibli ography, no. 20,599. For his interest in scientific farming and charter membership in the Philadelphia Society for Promoting Agriculture, see Boyd S. Schlenther, Charles Thom son: A Patriot’s Pursuit (Newark: University of Delaware Press, 1990), pp. 212, 288-89nn.98, 101. 2 Apparently those of the governor, secretary, and judges of the Northwest Territory, which were not filled until October. 3 That is, article 6 of the Northwest Ordinance, which declared that ‘There shall be neither Slavery nor involuntary Servitude in the said territory otherwise than in punish ment of crimes....” JCC, 32:343. In fact however, article 2 of the ordinance was long used to protect the property rights of slave-owning French setders in the Illinois coun try. It provided that “in the just preservation of rights and property it is understood and declared; that no law ought ever to be made, or have force in the said territory, that shall in any manner whatever interfere with, or affect private contracts or engage ments." See JCC, 32:340; and Paul Finkelman, “Slavery and the Northwest Ordinance: A Study in Ambiguity, ” Journal of the Early Republic 6 (Winter 1986): 355, 360—68. William Blount to Thomas Blount Si r, Copy Newyork July 30th 1787 As when you were last here you discovered an Inclination to make a Purchase of a large Body of Land from the United States on the North
