380 July 30, 1787 West of the River Ohio, I presume it will not be unacceptable to you to be informed that the Door is now open to such a Speculation, that is Congress have within these few days sold to Samuel H. Parsons late a Major General in the service of the United States and Associates in Number about nine hundred many of whom have also been Officers and Soldiers, five Millions of Acres of Land situate between the Musk ingum and the Scioto at two thirds of a dollar per Acre. 1 Thus the Precedent is established of selling the back Lands in large quantities so that should you still wish to purchase and will come forward with Proposals I have no doubt but they will be equally attended to. These Purchasers mean to settle their Lands without delay—a Circumstance highly pleasing to all Holders of Western Lands and beside this cer tain Prospect of Population, the Emigration to the Lands on the West ern Waters is very great, as you will see by the following Account which you may depend on; being an Official Return to Congress made by Lieut. Colonel Josiah Harmer: 2 “An Account of the Passen gers down the River Ohio taken at Fort Harmer at the Mouth of the Muskingum from October 10th 1786 to May 12th 1787 namely 177 Boats containing 2689 Souls, 1333 Horses, 766 Cattle, 102 Wagons and one Phaeton beside a Number which passed in the Night unob served,” of these a great part have settled in the Western Part of North Carolina in Davidson County on the Rivers Tennessee and Cumber land. By a late Conveyance I forwarded to you a second Lfetter] from my Davidson Friend, dated at Nash-ville May 1st 1787 addressed to the Hon’ble Benjamin Hawkins esquire on the Subject of the Navigation of the Missisippi shewing the undoubted Right of the United States Thereto; 3 which I hope you will have received before this reaches you. It has been here published and is much approved of. I am your’s &c, Wm. Blount P.S. The Writer of this Letter conceives if it shall be published in the english News Papers—He means several, that it will be beneficial to himself and associates holding Lands in Davidson County, therefore begs the favour of those to whom it is addressed to cause it to be ac cordingly published by Way of Extract of a Letter from a Gentleman in Newyork to his Frind in London concealing the name of the Writer and that of the Person to whom it is addressed. Tr (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). Addressed: “Mr. T.B. in London, in his Absence Benja. & Alexr. Contee, London.” In the hand of William Blount, and enclosed in the following note to John Gray Blount dated July 31st. “W.B. informs J.G.B. that the foregoing is a Copy of a Letter this day forwarded. J.G.B. will readily see the object of it. [W]hat [is] said of the sale to Parsons and the Return made by Harmar is perfecdy true. The of a dollar to be paid in Certificates." 1 See Richard Henry Lee to Francis Lightfoot Lee, July 14, note 3. 2 This May 14 report from Harmar to the secretary at war, Henry Knox, is in PCC, item 150, 2:359-68. 3 See Blount to Richard Caswell, July 19, note 2.
