384 JulySI, 1787 “P.S. I think the business of the Convention will not be completed un till the first of September.” RC (Nh-Ar: State Papers, Revolutionary Correspondence). 1 Not found. Pierce Butler to Weeden Butler Dear Sir, 1 New York August the 1st 1787. Though I came here to change the scene, and pass two or three days in idleness, yet I cannot let the Packett Sail without expressing my Thanks to You for Your two, as usual, very friendly and very accept able favours of the 20th of February and 18th of April. The former was forwarded to me to Philadelphia in July; 2 the latter I received yes terday. Allow me first to Congratulate You, which I do with real sincer ity, on the restoration of Mrs Butler’s health, and Your own recovery; the tidings were highly gratifying to all my family who are as well ac quainted with You both, & talk as familiarly about You, as if they had been under the same roof with You. All my letters, that I wrote to You before my departure from Carolina, coud not have reachd You when You last wrote to me. My Dear Sir If I was to repeat what I, and my Mrs Butler 3 feel, I shoud never cease a moment to thank You and Your good Lady, for Your Parental attention to Our dear Boy. I assure You We feel it in all its force. I will therefore say no more at present on that head. The Accts. You favor Us with of Our Son’s disposition- health, improvement in hearing and above all of his conducting him self so as to meet Your approbation, are truly comforting—great as my expectations are I fondly hope they will not be disappointed. I am pleased with his last letter. I think he begins to improve in his writing. I am anxious to have him write a fair, good, free hand. I hope as he advances in Years he will take a studious turn, because he has an infin ity to attend to. I think the habitt is or may be acquired early in life— unless he is very bookish, like Your Eldest Son, he can never get through all I shall require of Him. I have my fears on the score of ap plication; but it is to be acquired, I am therefore comforted by know ing he will be put in the way to acquire it. I conclude he learns French, and is also under the Dancing Master’s hands, which I wish him to be—other things will come in due season. My last letter from Carolina woud inform You of my intended visit to Philadelphia. As I declined the Honor my fellow Citizens offerd me of the Chief Magistracy, I coud not refuse the last Appointment of Act ing as One of their Commissioners to the Convention to be held at Philadelphia. No doubt You have heard of the purport of the meet ing—To form a Stronger Constitution on strict Foederal Principles, for
