392 August 7,1787 which had been agreed upon—they reassembled last Monday sev’night to receive the report. I suppose we shall have the result of this great business in a few weeks more. You shall soon hear from me again. Present me to Mrs. Monroe and believe me to be, with unfeigned regard, Your Affectionate Friend & Hl Servant, Ed. Carrington RC (DLC: Monroe Papers). 1 That is, Monroe’s father-in-law, Laurence Kortright, whose fortune from the West Indian trade was largely destroyed during the war. See Harry Ammon, James Monroe: The Quest for National Identity (New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co., 1971), p. 61. 2 Carrington had chaired the committee that structured the contract with the Ohio Company, for which see Richard Henry Lee to Francis Lightfoot Lee, July 14, note 3. Nathan Dane to Nathaniel Gorham Dear Sir. New York Augt. 7. 1787. I received your two letters respecting the Schooner Machias. I called on Mr. Jay early a Monday morning to mention to him the pro priety of sending the ratification of the Morocco treaty, &c. by your vessell but I found he was in the Country and has not yet returned. I am Sorry we have had no Congress this week, 1 owing to the absence of New Jersey, that I might have obtained the Sea letter for you—how ever, the treaty has been ratified by Congress, and a copy of the ratifi cation and Other necessary papers, were some days since, sent to Mo rocco by the way of France. 2 We have agreed to the Signals by which American and Morocco vessels are to be known, and transmitted them to the several Governors, 3 from whom the necessary papers re specting those signals may be had. I have Stated this circumstance to your brother. I imagine he may get from the Governor of Massa, in a few minutes, a copy of the Stipulation respecting the signals which may answer your purposes. Your affecta. freind, N. Dane. RC (MHi: Miscellaneous Bound Collection). 1 “This week” Congress was able to convene only on Thursday the ninth, and was then unable to make a quorum again until September 20, for which see JCC, 33:466-87. 2 For the ratification of the treaty with Morocco, and its transmission via Thomas Jef ferson in France, see Charles Thomson to the States, July 21; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 11:618-20. 3 These ship signals were transmitted by the secretary for foreign affairs, John Jay, to the governors of the states in the following letter of July 27. “I have the honor of trans mitting to your Excellency herewith enclosed a copy of the Signals agreed upon be tween the United States and the Emperor of Morocco, by which their respective Vessels are to be known to each other at Sea. The design, Sir, of sending you this paper is that such American masters of Vessels as may make Voyages from your State, in the course of which they may expect to meet with Cruisers from Morocco, may be supplied with Copies.” PCC, item 120, 3:265. See also JCC, 33:396-97.
