August 8, 1787 393 Samuel Holten to Nathaniel Appleton Sir, 1 New York 7th. Aug. 1787. I have been honored with your attention of the 21st ultimo. And by way of answer, would observe that I think it not likely that Congress will appoint a Consul at the Isle of France at present, for the trade with America, I understand, is but small; however, you may be assured of my attention to the same, as it would give me pleasure to render you services. I am, with great respect, your most obedient servant, FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Appleton, a Boston merchant, was the Continental loan officer for Massachusetts. His son Thomas was a merchant at this time established at Rouen, France. See JCC, 32:107n, 118-19; andjefferson, Papers (Boyd), 13:367, 14:60. William Grayson to James Monroe Dear Sir, N York. Augt. 8th. 1787. I have made inquiries agreable to your request into the affair of Mr. Low & Mr. K. 1 —and find that matters are in the same situation as when you left this. Indeed from the manner in which the business has been conducted by Mr. K. it does not appear to me at all probable that he will ever recover any thing from the heirs of his relations in Santa Cruz. You can therefore judge yourself what your expectations ought to be from that quarter. The family are all well: & live very re tired, in as economical a manner as possible. Mr. K. when he was sick in the spring expressed to me his great desire of doing some thing for you, & lamented his inability in very pathetic terms. I fear he has judged of the world by his own heart, & thereby greatly injured his own family. Since my last Congress has passed the Ordnance for the govern ment of the Western country, in a manner some thing different from the one which you drew, though I expect the departure is not so es sential but that it will meet your approbation. 2 You will observe that the consent of Virginia is necessary to intitle the people to certain rights, as also that the former Act is repealed absolutely. I am satisfied therefore you will do every thing in your power to get the State to alter her act of cession in such a manner, as will square with the Ord nance. It seems the subject was not taken up last year. The clause re specting slavery was agreed to by the Southern members for the pur pose of preventing Tobacco & Indigo from being made on the N.W. side of the Ohio, as well as for sevl. other political reasons. After this Ordnance was passed in Congress, the Eastern Ohio Compy. came for-
