396 August 8, 1787 vise Genl. Weedon to adventure as far as one share which is one thou sand dolls, in securities as he may thereby introduce his Military Con tinental claim, the Company being allowed to discount one seventh part in that way. A Commee. is appointed to draught an Ordnance for the sale of the lands between the Scioto & Great Miami, 4 on the principle of in discriminate locations nearly. & if the Southern States attend I appre hend it can be carried; this however will not bring any large quantity to markett, as after deducting the claims of the Virga. Offs. & Soldiers, & the Continental bounties the residue will not be very considerable. Mr. Adams has not done any thing at the Court of G. Brittain: he has requested his recall in very pointed terms. Who will be elected to succeed him, or whether Congress will send any body, is more than I can tell: at present they seem much divided on the subject. The Mis- sisippi is where you left it; i.e. nothing has been done. Mr. Jay has in one of his late letters, decidedly said he would do nothing more witht. the farther direction of Congress. I therefore think we are safe for the present. 5 I remain, Yr. Affect, friend, Willm. Grayson. P.S. If you should be able to purchase the quantity of lands, on very low terms, I have to observe, it will not suit me to pay immedy.: a twelve months credit or even longer is essential to my finances. If this indulgence cannot be obtained, I must keep out of the business; this however need not prevent you & the other gentlemen from adventur ing. W.G. RC (DLC: Monroe Papers). 1 That is, Laurence Kortright, Monroe’s father-in-law. 2 See Richard Henry Lee to Francis Lightfoot Lee, July 14, note 2. 3 See ibid., note 3. 4 That is, the committee on military bounty lands appointed May 2, for which see Richard Henry Lee to William Lee, July 30, note 4. For a resolution adopted in July 1788 regarding these lands, see JCC, 34:332-35. 5 On May 9 secretary for foreign affairs John Jay had requested that Congress “give me their express Instructions on the Points in Difference between the United States and the Crown of Spain.” Jay’s letter was debated on May 11 before being referred to a committee of five chaired by Dyre Kearny that delivered its report to Secretary Charles Thomson on June 13, although it was not read until Congress achieved a quorum on July 4. The committee recommended that Secretary Jay continue to be bound by Con gress’ resolution of August 25, 1785, but the report was apparently not acted on. In the meantime, however, the Spanish minister, Don Diego de Gardoqui, had writ ten to Jay on May 12 requesting that he be given “whatever Communications may be in your Power relative to the Negociation” to enclose with his dispatches to Madrid. Jay submitted Gardoqui’s letter to Congress that day together with his reply that he would lay the minister’s letter before Congress, “on whom the further Progress of our Business now wholly depends,” and convey their answer without delay. Grayson is undoubtedly referring to Jay’s letter to Garoqui. See JCC, 32:277, 288-90, 292n.l, 299—300; PCC, item 80, 3:259-65, item 120, 3:214-17; and Diplomatic Correspondence, 1783-89, 3:254-55.
