402 August 12, 1787 the first time not one New England State upon the floor. I wish you would inform me as soon as you conveniently can, what prospect there is of our States be[ing] represented, and when. It depends en tirely on your or Mr. Gorham’s taking a seat in Congress. There is no prospect of Dr. Holten’s returning—if neither of you can attend for 4 or 5 weeks to come, I think it will be best for me in the entermediate time to make a short visit to Massa, as my private concerns now make it almost absolutely necessary I should. I am now the only member in Congress from the 4 Eastern States. There are now before Congress several objects respecting Indian affairs, &c, respecting Mr. Adam’s re turn to America, and directing in what manner the affairs of our lega tion at the Court of London shall be conducted after his return, the requisition &c, &c which we never ought to leave entirely to the Southern & Middle States—it is evidently the object of several gentle men to put the affairs of our Legation at London in to the hands of Mr. Jefferson. 4 This is a thing we can by no means agree to. As to other foreign matters we have pretty well dispatched them for the pre sent. Instructions are gone to Mr. Jefferson respecting the Consulate, & to Mr. Adams respecting the infractions of the treaty as reported by Mr. Jay nearly. The necessary measures respecting the Morocco treaty have been taken; 5 proper letters to the Empire & the King of Spain, &c, have been sent—some measures relative to our house at the Hage, 6 prisoners at Al[gie]rs, &c. We have allowed depreciation to the marine as reported by the board 7 —and finally settled D. Campbell’s affairs—and allowed him the pay of a D quarter master. 8 We have lim ited the time for bringing claims against the union &c &c.—measures not deserving any particular notice. Bruce has come forward with Jackson’s accounts, and in order to Get the board of Treasury to pay a part of the balance due to him which he says is about 10,000 Dollars—Massa having paid £4,000 Law. Mfoney]. This is mortifying after so much was promised on the part of the state towards supporting the troops. 9 I am not yet informed what is like to be done. Your’s, N Dane RC (NHi: King Papers). 1 That is, Winthrop Sargent, who was appointed secretary for the Northwest Territory October 5./CC, 33:610. 2 Undoubtedly George Turner, for whom see the preceding entry, note 4. 3 For the appointment of officers for the Northwest Territory October 5 and 16, see JCC, 33:610, 686. 4 This observation was apparently prompted by the report of the secretary for foreign affairs, John Jay, on the future of the American mission to London after John Adams’ anticipated return to America, which was submitted to Congress July 26 and debated August 1. See JCC, 33:415-18, 446-48. 5 See Charles Thomson to the States, July 21. 6 For the allowance made to Charles W. F. Dumas for expenses related to the repair of the residence of the United States minister to the Hague, see JCC, 33:404-5.
