August 16, 1787 405 in the Moravian Brethren at Bethlehem in Pensylvania or a society of the said Brethren for civilizing the Indians & promoting Christianity, in trust and for the uses expressed in the Ordinance passed the 20th May 1785, including Kilbuck & his descendants and the Nephew & Descendants of the late Capt White Eyes, Delaware chiefs who distin guished themselves as friends to the cause of America. 2 I think it might be well to have the boundaries of the land ascer tained, and if you should think the quantity reserved is two [too] small, I have little doubt but upon a proper representation previous to the taking a deed, it might be enlarged. I most heartily wish you suc cess in your laudable endeavours for the benefit of those poor people, & that this may be a mean of forwarding them. With Love to the Brethren, I am Dear Sir, Your obedient humble servt, Cha Thomson RC (PBMCA: Ettwein Papers). 1 Bishop Ettwein’s letter is not in the PCC, but for the context of his appeal see Thomson to Ettwein, August 26, 1786. 2 This July 27 congressional order actually directed the board of treasury to “except and reserve out of any Contract they may make for the [Manasseh Cutler-Winthrop Sar gent] tract,” 10,000 acres for the purposes here specified, for which see JCC, 33:429-30. John B. Ashe to Richard Caswell Sir New York 16th. Augt. 1787 I had the honor this day, to receive your Excellency’s favour of the 11th of July, 1 inclosing a receipt of Mr. Robert Stewarts to Mr. Whitaker for 110,104 lb of Tobacco, which I shall pay every necessary attention to, Also, a Copy of your letter of the 15th of Jany last, 2 to the Delegation, requiring their attention, towards procuring the Muster Rolls, of the line of our State, or duplicates of them, and forwarding of them to you; rest assured Sir, in this, we have not been inattentive, early in March we procured an order of Congress directing the Secre tary at War to furnish us with Duplicates, but the Pay Master with his principal Clerk, going shortly after, to Virginia on public business, and who, has not yet return’d, has been the cause, (and is yet) of our not obtaining them, he is hourly expect’d, when the Secretary promises them without delay. Colo. Blount and myself brought forward a resolution, purporting Congress’s disavowall of such part, of the Hopewell Treaty, as ceded certain Territory within the limits of the States to the Indians as hunt ing ground, and stated our claim to the Same, 3 which Statement was thought insufficient, and as the boundary of a State, was of a very weighty and consequential nature, we concluded it best to let the busi-
