412 August 29, 1787 upon me (my sentiments being so Well known) as upon others that Differ. Upon the whole I believe you had better not make this public as coming from me but to keep it among the frnds it may be good in formation to Yates & Lansing. I am well. I wish you All so and Remain your Obedient Humb Srt, Abm. Yates Jnr 4 RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Addressed: ‘Jeremiah Van Rensselaer and Henry Oothoudt Esqrs., Albany.” 1 Oothoudt and Van Rensselaer were leaders with Yates of the antifederalist move ment developing in New York. Van Rensselaer was subsequently chairman of the Albany Antifederalist Committee, and Oothoudt, a former assemblyman, was a member of both the committee and the New York ratifying convention. See Steven R. Boyd, “The Impact of the Constitution on State Politics: New York as a Test Case,” James K. Martin, ed., The Human Dimension of Nation Making (Madison: State Historical Society of Wiscon sin, 1976), pp. 274, 281,288. 2 That is, Jonathan Burrall, who had been appointed “Commissioner for settleing the Accounts of the Quarter-Master’s and Commissary’s departments” May 7, 1787. JCC, 32:258. 3 Peter Yates, colonel of the 14th regiment of Albany county militia. Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 10:1000. 4 Yates’ account for attendance as a delegate to Congress for this period records the following claim: “For my services as Delegate in Congress from the first of August 1787 till 15 October following including five travelling days—being 76 days @ 24/ per day— £91.4.” Americana Collection, MiDbEI. William Grayson to James Madison Dr Sir N York Augt. 31st. 1787. Inclosed is a Stragling letter which has found it’s way to this place. 1 1 have recieved your favor & shall pay every attention to the case of Majr. Turner. His chance with respect to the Secretaryship is abso lutely desperate; he must therefore be nominated for a Judges seat. This he has agreed to himself as appears by a letter to Mr. Carrington. 2 Judge Symms of Jersey yesterday made an application for All that tract of country lying between the Great & little Miami the East & West line & the Ohio supposed about two millions of acres, on the same terms with the Eastern Ohio Compy. His application has met with the intire approbation of the Members present: & there is no doubt but as soon [as] there is a Congress that this contract will be closed. 3 A Commee. is appointed to draught an Ordnance for indiscrimi nate locations, but a difficulty has occurred which I fear will destroy the whole affair: the Commee don’t know what the deficiency is on the Cumberland river & have figured to their timorous & suspicious imaginations that the Virginia officers & soldiers mean to take eight
