414 September 1, 1787 therefore suppose I had almost given you up for lost. Tho’ I do not readily despair, yet I had a thousand conjectures—among these the Extravagant one, that you were gone to Kauskatea, Exploring terri tory—another lately, that you might have accompanied your sovereign in her Southern tour. But I am very agreeably disappointed by finding you safe & snug at home. I hope, too, in full possession of an Empress of your own, together with all the Enjoyment that matrimonial con nection can possibly afford. The Dutchman brought me Pierce’s final Settlement notes, which together with another for arrears I got added, made in the whole 1000—these I loaned to the State of Pennsylvania, & took her certifi cate on interest in lieu—this bore interest, & was regularly paid for two years—these funded, as they were called, were up at one time to 8s. 4d. in the pound, but lately a hue & cry has been raised that Penna, has taken on herself more than her proportion of the national debt, and of course this funding law must be repealed. Whether it will or not is yet undetermined. But be this as it may, Certificates of this description are now as low as half a dollar in the pound. Still the Con tinentals, not adopted or funded by any State, are yet lower; they are 2s. 6d. I have therefore determined to sell out of Penna. Stocks & pur chase one thousand dollars Continentals; these will purchase one thousand acres of land between the Scioto & Miami on the bank of the Ohio, where a company have purchased 5,000,000 of acres, at one dollar in Certificates; this Company being well organized, and intend actually to make Strong Settlements very soon, I thought it the best mode of investing this sum: there will be about twenty dollars specie to be added for expense of Settlement, Surveying, &c. Genl. Parsons, of Connecticut, is one of the directors of this Company and most of the principals will be officers of the Eastern States. After all the neces sary Expenses & investiture I expect to have remaining of yours in my hands some more than $300, 2 yet funded in Pennsa.—with these it is probable I should purchase a plantation for you on French Creek, or the Beaver, or some good communication into the West, near the old Settlements. The Yankees talk of moving 5000 strong into their new territory next Spring, in one body. They are proceeding very regularly. This will make your 1000 acres valuable in a few years. I have two patents in your name for you, 200 acres Each, Penna. Donation Land; & there will be 200 added to the thousand in the Compy., your Share from the United States: So that when I make the purchase I intend in Penna, you will have, in the whole, about 2000 acres: then all of your certifi cates that have come to my hands will be disposed of, & I hope to good advantage in the end—as the land will increase in value more than the interest of the Certificates in the uncertain State of things. Many persons begin to think of purchasing Western lands: Congress
