416 September 1, 1787 of Parliament as well as acts of almost Every individual Briton, who had it in his power, have made their vessels the carriers as well of their goods to America, as well as of the American produce in return. In this situation, a year ago, a Convention was proposed & past, did most in order to persuade & prevail on the several Legislatures to invest Congress with full power to regulate everything relative to trade. They did nothing decisive, but recommended some things; the result has been, that a General Convention has met, & are now sitting at Philadelphia, who are instructed to propose regulations for trade— not only so, but likewise to revise the Confederation itself—which, however, they have not power finally to determine on, but only to sub mit the proposed alterations and amendments, first to Congress— who, if they approve, are to submit them to the Several States for their final determination. General Washington is President of the Conven tion—they have sat ever since the Month of May; it is said they will rise in two weeks from this time. Many are sanguine that a good Govern ment will be framed—some are determined to oppose, whatever it may be—but as a great majority seemed convinced, that considerable changes are necessary, I hope some tolerable plan will be accepted. The only danger of miscarriage, I think, is, that the Convention will be for making so perfect a Government, as to leave no room for fu ture amendments—or, in other words, to alarm too much the great sticklers for liberty. The Eastern States are almost clamorous for strong Executive Government: this may be thought Extraordinary— but it is nevertheless true. At Boston last winter there were violent commotions, indeed even rebellion, which you have doubtless heard not a little of. There was at one time 7000 insurgents embodied in the depth of winter under a certain Shay—they had a long string of grievances, among these, oppression of lawyers, Speculators, tax-gath erers, &c. &c. But the militia were, after many talks, town-meetings, & consulta tions, turned out, & headed chiefly by old Continental officers— among the most conspicuous of these were old Lincoln, Shepherd, & Brooks. There was considerable marching and manoeuvering for two weeks, but the insurgents, at last suffered themselves to be surprized & totally routed—since which every thing has been perfectly quiet. This was really an exertion of military, against their brethren too, that few people here had an idea of—and in Europe I dare say, it will be deemed absolutely false. But I assure you it is well authenticated that the Militia under Genl. Lincoln marched thirty miles in nine hours in the night in a severe snow storm—when many were actually frozen—& without refreshment rushed on the insurgents with bayo nets. It is true, there was little opposition; but I believe it is no less true, that not many militia under similar circumstances, would even make the attempt.
