September 1, 1787 417 When circumstances render any probable Success in trade, I will an swer the queries you put—in the meantime suffice to inform you that the Ships to the East Indies from America have been remarkably suc cessful. I believe ten have returned. Sloops of 60 tons have gone to the Cape. China produce is plenty & cheap, but green tea is sold here for a dollar a pound. It is now time to tell you how I came to date my letter from New York. Congress sit in this city, & I am in the delegation this year from our State—so is Genl. St. Clair—& young Armstrong—So you see the Cincinnati are not quite laid aside. Direct to me at the old place, Carlisle—where it is more than probable I shall be buried. I have built a tolerable house there—not to be buried, but to live in. I will be anx ious to hear from you. I make a tour yearly to Fort Pitt, & next Spring I believe I will see Lake Erie pretty high up. I am, dr. Sir, most Sin cerely yrs., Wm. Irvine P.S. I am at some loss to know how you manage to receive letters by the old address. Will it be proper to continue that—or in future by the present proper one—signify this in your next. Money is very Scarce, but it is more artificial than real; occasioned in a great degree by several of the States issuing paper money, which invariably depreciates, be the funds for its redemption ever so good. In Penna., for instance they made £150,000, the whole revenue of the State, pledged by law for the redemption of it—£20,000 to be re deemed annually & burned. This law has been punctually complied with, in all respects, and yet it has depreciated 20 per cent. It has been uniformly taken by the State for lands, taxes, impost, and indeed all debts to the State it was a legal tender—but not a tender in any other case; no individual was obliged to take it. The holders of public securi ties, however, tho’ not obliged by law to receive it, yet they had no al ternative but go without. I mean for annual interest: this was among the reasons for appropriating yours, or converting them into land, which cannot depreciate. Septr. 6th. Commodore Jones being detained longer than he ex pected, gives me an opportunity to inform you more minutely the State of my negotiations with your property. I have this day sold out part of your stock in the Penna, funds, & purchased 1,000 Continental dollars—these I have subscribed in the Ohio Company, as your Attor ney—& paid in the necessary proportion of Specie to defray contin gent Expenses. When a payment is made into the U.S. Treasury, a new certificate will issue for the Amount of interest due on them—as noth ing but principle is taken as payment for land. How much this will amount to, I cannot exactly say, but suppose something upwards of $100—this you will have the U.S. for. Then beside that, there will re main in my hands Certificates of Penna, as already mentioned, to pur chase the Penna, farm. The interest already drawn from Penna, has
