426 September 5, 1787 I am, Sir, Your most Obedient Humble servant, R. Alden FC (DNA: PCC, item 55). In the hand of Roger Alden. 1 Judd’s August 24 letter to Alden, in which he requested “a Copy of part of the Jour nals of the Federal Court held at Trenton in 1782 (Viz) The Motion made by the Con necticut Agents to summon and give Notice to the Tenants or Inhabitants of the Wyoming before they proceeded any further upon the Tryal, And the Resolution of the Court thereon,” is in PCC, item 55, fols. 193-96. For the motion and court opinion (of November 19-20, 1782) which Judd sought, see Susquehannah Co. Papers, 7:153-54. 2 From William Samuel Johnson, Judd was seeking “A Copy of The Indian Deed to the Susqh. Company.” For Judd’s efforts at this time to overturn the Trenton decree, see ibid., 9:97-101, 257, 285. Edward Carrington to Winthrop Sargent My dear Sir, New York Sept. 5. 1787 The absence of Mrs. Colden, who went to the highlands about the time you left us, and did not return until a short time ago, occasioned some delay in the formal entry of her, as well as my name, on Major Platts list. 1 This was however done a few days ago for five shares each, but lest some arrangements may possibly have taken place to the East ward, confining the benefits of the first location, to the subscribers of a given Sum, say that which is mentioned for the first payment in the Resolve of Congress, and having no views of adventuring at all unless we can come into the first location, we have taken the precaution to annex that condition to our subscriptions. We have no particular rea sons to suppose this a necessary Step but thought it could do no harm, in case it should not be necessary. We hear your subscriptions fill up fast in Massachusetts, and are flat tered with hopes that a respectable settlement will go out this fall. Some wealthy Men, such as McComb, Edgar, Fleming &c. of this place, have subscribed with Platt. These will give weight to the adven ture as they will be able to push the settlements. We have never had a Congress since you left us, of consequence no appointments have taken place for the Western Government. Turner, upon being informed that you was his competitor, has declined his pretensions for the Secretariship, nor do I hear of any other who is about to come forward—such is the effect of your great merit, that all opposition shrinks from before you. Mrs. C still continues to rest her hopes upon you. I know not how it is, but somehow or other, you have impressed her with an opinion that you are a very honest fellow, and what else she thinks of you I dare not say—you are already vain enough. When shall we see you in New York? I am my dear Sir, Your Afft. Humbl Servt., Ed. Carrington
