430 September 13, 1787 remitting me Cash for the purpose of buying the things you want, for indeed I have it not of my own. My compliments, if you please to the Ladies of Lee Hall, & to all friends in Westmoreland. I am dear Sir your affectionate friend & Kinsman, Richard Henry Lee. RC (NN: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Addressed: “Richard Lee esquire of Lee Hall in Westmoreland County Virginia.” 1 For “Squire” Richard Lee (1726-95), Richard Henry’s first cousin and the uncle of Richard Bland Lee, another correspondent of Richard Henry, see these Letters, 4:136n.l; and Paul C. Nagle, The 1ms of Virginia: Seven Generations of an American Family (New York: Oxford University Press, 1990), pp. 50-54. 2 Not found. 3 For “the riots and mobbish proceedings in Virginia,” see the preceding entry, note 6. Nicholas Gilman to Joseph Gilman Philadelphia September 18th 1787. “The important business of the Convention being closed, the Secretary set off this morning to pre sent Congress with a report of their proceedings, which I hope will soon come before the State in the manner directed; but as some time must necessarily elapse before that can take place I do myself the plea sure to transmit the enclosed papers for your private satisfaction 1 — forbearing all comments on the plan but that it is the best that could meet the Unanimous concurrence of the States in Convention; it was done by bargain & Compromise—yet, notwithstanding its imperfec tions, in the adoption of it depends (in my feeble Judgment) whether we shall become a respectable nation or a people torn to pieces by in testine commotions and rendered con temptable for ages.” RC (PHi: Society Collection). 1 Gilman undoubtedly enclosed a copy of the September 17 Dunlap and Claypoole broadside report of the convention that was read in Congress on September 20, for which see JCC, 33:488-503, 760; and Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 20,818. Nicholas Gilman to John Sullivan Sir, Philadelphia September 18th 1787 I have the pleasure to inform your Excellency that the important business of the Convention is closed—their Secretary set off this morning to present the Honorable the Congress with a report of their proceedings and the Convention adjourned without day. I hope to have the pleasure to lay this important affair before the State in a few
