432 September 18, 1787 North Carolina can be taxed no More for all their Lands than fifty Cit izens in one of the eastern States. This must be greatly in our favour for as Most of their Farms are Small & many of them live in Towns, we certainly have, one with another, land of twice the Value that they pos sess. When it is also considered that five Negroes are only to be charged the Same Poll Tax as three whites the advantage must be con siderably increased. Under the Proposed Form of Government the Southern States have also a much better Security for the Return of Slaves who might endeavour to escape than they had under the Origi nal Confederation. It is expected a Considerable Share of the Na tional Taxes will be Collected by Imposts, Duties, and Excises but You will find it provided in the 8th Section of Article the first that all du ties, Imposts and, excises shall be uniform throughout the United States. While we were taking so much care to guard ourselves against being overreached and to form rules of Taxation that might opperate in our favour, it is not to be Supposed that our Northern Brethren were inattentive to their particular Interest. A navigation Act or the power to regulate Commerce in the Hands of the National Govern ment by which American Ships and Seamen may be fully employed is the desirable weight that is thrown into the Northern Scale. This is what the Southern States have given in Exchange for the Advantages we Mentioned above; but we beg leave to Observe in the Course of this Interchange North Carolina does not Appear to us to have given any thing, for we are doubtless the most independent of the Southern States; we are able to carry our own produce and if the Spirit of Navi gation and Ship building is cherished in our State we Shall Soon be able to carry for our Neighbours. We have taken the liberty to men tion the general pecuniary Considerations which are involved in this Plan of Government, there are other Considerations of great Magni tude involved in the System but we cannot exercise Your patience with a further Detail; but Submit it with the Utmost deference and have the Honor to be, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient Huml. Servt., Wm. Blount 2 Richd. D. Spaight Hu. Williamson Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 See Gilman to Gilman, this date, note. 2 Of North Carolina’s delegates to the Constitutional Convention, only Blount was also a delegate to Congress at this time. The state’s two convention delegates who did not sign this letter, William Richardson Davie and Alexander Martin, had already re turned home from Philadelphia.
