434 September 20, 1787 tain that it is as convenient a place as any in the whole County, both with respect to situation, being very near the Center of what must be left, and every other convenience, as wood, Water, Stone and Coal, and the new laid out road passing through it, I would not propose it. That some little Advantage would arise to me from it I hope will not be an Objection. I am sure it will be a motive to you, and I think it should with some others. I will request the favour of you to mention it to some of our Friends, to whom also I would have written, but I am very ill able to do it, for this is the first time I have taken a penn in hand these six Weeks having been totally disabled in my right Hand by the Gout and even now write in great pain. I will therefore trouble further you nor myself any longer than to assure you that I ever am, Dear Sir, Your very humble Servant, Ar St Clair RC (OCIWHi: MS3305). 1 That is, FitzSimons had been a delegate to the Constitutional Convention and was also a member of the Pennsylvania Assembly to which the Constitution had been re ferred on September 18. For the reception of the document by this fateful session of the assembly, see Doc. Hist, of Ratif, 13:293—306. 2 For this subject, see also St. Clair’s postscript to his letter to FitzSimons of March 10, 1787. Roger Alden to Unknown Dear Sir New York Sept. 21st 1787. The budget was opened Yesterday and the important secret is now exposed to public view, and I hope it will be approved by every indi vidual. 1 I find it meets with the approbation of many of those Gentle men of whose opinion and for whose Judgment I have the highest re spect—but where we may expect opposition is easy to be conjectured. I can readily make three classes. Great Men of our own who will loose their consequence, little great Men, conscious of their own talents who know they have not Abilities to become really great Men—And all those who are really enemies to the happiness of the Country or have exposed themselves by their crimes, Idleness and wickedness to the just Laws of society. FC (DNA: PCC, item 55). In the hand of Roger Alden. 1 Apparently a reference to the debate on the resolution adopted by the Constitu tional Convention on September 5 requesting Congress to pay the expenses of “the Sec retary and other Officers of this Convention,” which were later calculated at $1,165.90. See JCC, 33:487-88. The request was laid before Congress on September 20 with a letter by George Washington, the president of the Convention, covering a copy of the pro posed constitution approved September 17 and two resolutions proposing procedures for its adoption. Ibid., pp. 488-503.
