September 23, 1787 435 According to the proceedings on this issue entered by Alden in the Secretary’s Com mittee Book, Congress immediately approved the proposal and directed the board of treasury “to take Order” to pay the costs of the Convention. See ibid., p. 488; and PCC, item 190, fol. 165. William Bingham to Thomas FitzSimons Dr Sir, New York Septr 21. 1787 You expressed a Desire of Knowing what reception the Conven tional Government would meet with in Congress, & whether there was a Prospect of its passing thro’ the necessary Formalities in Congress, previous to the Adjournment of our legislature. It was yesterday received & read in Congress, 1 & Wednesday next fixed as the Day for its Consideration. If I had been present, I Should certainly have opposed its Postponement to So distant a Day. As from Enquiry I find that every State on the Floor of Congress is disposed to adopt it, I will endeavor to bring on the Question immediately. I Shall urge as an Argument the favorable Disposition of our Assembly, which is now in Sessions. I will inform you of the result, as Soon as possible. I am with Regard, D Sir, Your obedt hble serv, Wm Bingham RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 See JCC, 33:488-503. Edward Carrington to James Madison My Dear Sir, New York Sept. 23. 1787 The Gentlemen who have arrived from the Convention inform us that you are on the way to join us 1 —least, however, you may, under a supposition that the State of the delegation is such as to admit of your absence, indulge yourself in leisurely movements, after the fatiguing time you have had, I take this precaution to apprise you that the same schism which unfortunately happened in our State in Philadelphia, 2 threatens us here also. One of our Colleagues Mr. R. H. Lee is form ing propositions for essential alterations in the Constitution, which will, in effect, be to oppose it. 3 Another, Mr. Grayson, dislikes it, and is, at best for giving it only a Silent passage to the States. Mr. H. Lee 4 joins me in opinion that it ought to be warmly recommended to en sure its adoption. A lukewarmness in Congress will be made a ground of opposition by the unfreindly in the States. Those who have hitherto
