440 September 27, 1787 R. H. Lee. It is objd. that if this Congress cannot decide now a new future one cannot—has not force, for this is a first prinl. that the majy. of the people have a right to make a new one if 9 States agre the ma jority of the people. H. Lee. Will vote for the postpon. because he supposes we have a right to decide from the great principle of necessity or the salus pop- uli—this necessity justifies the measure Cong, and all the States have decided it. Are the Laws of Congs, paramt. to the Constituti[ons] of the diff. S[tate]s. Mr. Dane. Wishes to steer in the chanl. of neutrality—yet suggest whether a motion which brings into view so materially the Question of 9 States—prefers N Jersey—Understands the clause which makes the clause declarg. the Constn. the supreme Law. difft. from the conven. 6 R H Lee. We live in an enlightned age—people will understand us—to accomodate has left out the words 9 & 13. Will consent they may be put out. The doctrin of salus populi dang[erous]. Has been in the mo[uth]s of all tyr[ant]s. If men may do us they please fm. that arg. all Cons[titution]s useless—all tyrants have used it. Madison. Cant, accede to it—is not respectful to the Conv—after w[ha]t has been done, if Cong, does not agree implies a disagree ment. Cong, fm former acts do not object to a national gov—if either motn. is adopted it implies disap—the ques. is wheth. on the whole it is best to adopt it & ought to say so. The powers of Conv. the same as of Congs. The reason of Conv. that they might not be interrupted, and that persons might be admd. wthr [or] not be in Congs.—and to prevent Jealousies. If this house cant approve it says the crisis is not yet arrived—& impls. a disapp [ointment]—a great many Inst. Cong, have recomd. what they have no right. R. H. Lee. The conv. have not proceeded as this house were bound—it is to be agreed to by the States & means the 13—but this recomds. a new Confedy of 9—the Conv. no more powers than Congress, yet if 9 States agree becomes supreme Law. Knows no in stance on the Journals as he remembers, opposing the Confedy.—the impost was to be adopted by 13. The Resol. fm Jersey approves, for Cong, dont send out any thing but such as they approve. Mr Clark. Unhappy to differ fm Mr Lee, he reveres his Jud[gment]—if his obj good, his own prop, liable to the like obj. Johnson. Hardly possible to send it out witht. approvg. or disap- provg.—for this reason Mr Lee’s motion. Cong, ought to approve or disapprove—they may do it—it is their duty to do it. The people will see we, that Cong, act witht. power, in the case of 9 or 13-—they will see, that the act of Feby. was departing from the Constitn. 7 Conf, says Congress was to mk. alter. Cong. apps. a Conven. to do it—he saw it so at the time and opposed it 8 —the argts. then were salus populi—noth ing from Congress wd. do—the prop, fm Conv. not a prop, to 9 but to
