September 27, 1787 441 all, it is hoped all will. Mr Lee says if 9 agree to alter by the people— this says if 9 do in that case, we will set it going on the principle of maj. On the principle of Cong, referring to the Conv. they are a Commt. and have made report, Congress then must approve or disap prove—it dont imply an approbation of all its parts, but the best upon the whole, a matter of accomodation—we say it is better than the pre sent—better than running the risque of another. Madison. Did not say the Conv. moved exactly in the Line of their app[ointment]. Cong, did dept, fm the Idea of federal & recomd. a national Govt, in Feby 1781. 9 Congress did from the principle salus populi—The western Country its sale & Govt—an instance of exceed ing powers—as Congress have in many Instances exceeded their power, if it does not in this Inst, aprove it will imply disappr. R H Lee. The wes. Country was once Virgs. She gave it to Congress. Cong, sells it as she had a right. The Government tempory. & not in consistent. If I understand] Gen. This is to be adopted & no other with alter. Why so? good things in it—but many bad—so much so tht. he says here as he will say every where that if adopted civil Liberty will be in emt. danger. The grts. parts of diff[icult]y arises fm debt—if that was removed—and cd make treats without the limitations—and to regulate the trade with reasonable limits—but at all events, he sees not the necessy. of pressing this without any amends.—thinks the Convs. had best have had the Liby. to alter. Butler. The quest, ought to be on the whole—no amendments—the Object [ion] s not pointed—Dane has leading objections but declines naming them. Lee dangerous to civil Liberty—the Conv. could have made a better—but that this best on the whole—have no power and it will answer no purpose to alter—The State of the Country con temptible abroad—and on the eve of Anarc[h]y at home. Anarchy will follow if it is not adopted. The motion from Mr. Lee was postponed, and then a motion was made by Mr. Car. 10 H Lee. Thinks the matter was to be taken up in its parts, but cannot agree to it in all its parts, with [out] examination by paragraphs and propose s[u]ch amendmts as are necessary. Cong, will subject them selves to disgrace by voting on a matter whh. they have not ex [amine] d. Moves to pospone & taken up by Paragraph. Goram. Thinks not necessary to take up by Paragraphs, every Gentn. may propose amendments—no necessity of a Bill of rights; be cause a Bill of rights in state Govts, was intended to retain certain pow ers, as the Legis. had unlimd. powers. Madison. The business is open to considn.—shd feel delicacy if he had not assented in Conv. though he did not approve it. Gen have sd. this is in the sit[uation] of a Bill agreed to by one house. This prin. will oppose amends, bees, the act if altered will not be the act of both.
