September 29, 1787 451 Charles Thomson to the States Sir, (Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress, Sept. 28th. 1787. In obedience to an unanimous resolution of the United States in Congress Assembled, a copy of which is annexed, 1 I have the honor to Transmit to Your Excellency, the Report of the Convention lately As sembled in Philadelphia, together with the resolutions and letter ac companying the same; 2 And have to request that Your Excellency will be pleased to lay the same before the Legislature, in order that it may be submitted to a Convention of Delegates chosen in Your State by the people of the State in conformity to the resolves of the Conven tion, made & provided in that case. With the greatest respect, I have the honor &c, C.T. 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). Endorsed: “transmitting the Report of the Convention." 1 For this September 28 resolution, see JCC, 33:549. 2 These enclosures consisted of the draft of the proposed constitution adopted at Philadelphia September 17, two resolutions adopted the same day for its ratification and implementation, and a letter to Congress from the convention’s president, George Washington, explaining their work and recommending the product of their delibera tions. See JCC, 33:488-503. For the 4-page printed document incorporating these texts and Congress’ September 28 resolution, which was the form of Thomson’s enclosure to the states, see PCC, item 122, fol. 98; Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 20,817; and ICC 33:760 (no. 593). For the reception of the Constitution by Congress and the delegates’ response to it, see also Melancton Smith’s Notes, September 27, note 1; and William Pierce to St. George Tucker, this date. 3 Another September 28 congressional resolution was also transmitted to the states this date, but under cover of the following letter from the secretary for foreign affairs, John Jay, rather than Secretary Thomson. “Sir, Although the Act of Congress of which the enclosed is a Copy has been published, yet it appearing proper that your Excellency should receive it in an official manner, I do myself the honor of transmitting it under the same Cover with this. PCC, item 120, 3:290—91. The enclosed resolution, concern ing “whether foreign counsuls residing in the United States are entitled to an exemp tion from ... imposts and duties on Merchandizes by them imported for their own use,” declared simply “That no consuls of any Nation are entitled to such exemptions in the United States.” JCC, 33:549. Richard Henry Lee to Elbridge Gerry Dear Sir, New York Septr. 29. 1787 According to your request I now enclose you the Amendments that I proposed to the new Constitution. 1 I incline to think that unless some such alterations & provisions as these are interposed for the security of those essential rights of Mankind without which liberty cannot exist, we shall soon find that the New plan of Government will be far more in-
