September 29, 1787 453 In order to prevent the dangerous blending of the Legislative and Ex ecutive powers, and to secure responsibility—The Privy Council and not the Senate shall be joined with the President in the appointment of all Officers Civil and Military under the new Constitution—That it be further amended so as to omit the Creation of a Vice President, whose duties, as assigned by the Constitution, may be discharged by the Privy Council (except in the instance of presiding in the Senate, which may be supplied by a Speaker chosen from the body of Senators by themselves as usual) and thus render unnecessary the establish ment of a Great Officer of State who is sometimes to be joined with the Legislature and sometimes to administer the Executive power, rendering responsibility difficult, and adding unnecessarily to the Aristocratic influence; besides giving unjust and needless preemi nence to that state from whence this Officer may come. That such parts of the new Constitution be amended as provide imperfectly for the trial of Criminals by ajury of the Vicinage, and to supply the omis sion of ajury trial in Civil causes or disputes about property between Individuals where by the Common law it is directed, and as generally it is secured by the several State Constitutions. That such other parts be amended as permit the vexations and oppressive calling of Citizens from their own Country in all cases of controversy concerning prop erty between Citizens of different States, and between Citizens and foreigners, to be tried in far distant Courts, and as it may be, without a Jury. Whereby in a multitude of Cases, the circumstances of distance and expence may compel men to submit to the most unjust and ill founded demands. That in order to secure the rights of the people more effectually from oppression, the power and respectability of the House of Representatives be increased, by increasing the number of Delegates to that House where the democratic interest will chiefly re side. That the New Constitution be so altered as to increase the num ber of Votes necessary to determine questions relative to the creation of new or the amendment of old Laws, as it is directed in the choice of a President where the Votes are equal from the States; it being cer tainly as necessary to secure the Community from oppressive Laws, as it is to guard against the choice of an improper President. The plan now admitting of a bare majority to make Laws, by which it may hap pen that 5 States may Legislate for 13 States tho 8 of the 13 are absent. That the new Constitution be so amended as to place the right of representation in the Senate on the same ground that it is placed in the House of Delegates thereby securing equality of representation in the Legislature so essentially necessary for good government. RC (DNDAR: 2000X-48b). Endorsed by Gerry: “Colonel R H Lees propositions to amend the Constitution, Sepr 1787.” 1 These proposed “Amendments” had first been introduced in Congress during de bate on September 27, but were not entered on the journals. Cf. Melancton Smith’s
