458 September 30, 1787 With every sentiment of respect & esteem, & every wish for your health & happiness, I am Dear Sir, Your Obedient, humble servt., Js. Madison Jr. P.S. A small packet of the size of 2 vol. 8°. addressed to you lately came to my hands with books of my own from France. Genl. Pinkney has been so good as to take charge of them. He set out yesterday for S. Carolina & means to call at Mount Vernon. 5 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 10:179-81. 1 For the debate of September 27, cf. JCC, 33:540-44; and Melancton Smith’s Notes, September 27. 2 Madison later interlined “Mason.” For Richard Henry Lee’s “bill of Rights,” see Lee to Elbridge Gerry, September 29. For George Mason’s “objections” to the proposed Constitution, see Doc. Hist. qfRatif, 8:40-46. 3 Madison later interlined “lancton.” 4 Madison supplied the italics for the word “unanimously." Cf. JCC, 33:549. Others, es pecially Richard Henry Lee, objected to the use of the word. In his October 1 letter to George Mason (following entry), Lee complained that in reaching a compromise, those who supported the constitution as it emerged from the Convention “took the opportu nity of inserting the word Unanimously, which applied only to simple transmission, hop ing to have it mistaken for an Unanimous approbation of the thing.... It is certain that no Approbation was given.” 5 For Washington’s October 10 reply to this letter, see Madison, Papers (Rutland), 10:189-90. Richard Henry Lee to George Mason Dear Sir, New York October 1st. 1787 I have waited until now to answer your favor of Septr. 18th from Philadelphia, 1 that I might inform you how the Convention plan of Government was entertained by Congress. Your prediction of what would happen in Congress was exactly verified. It was with us, as with you, this or nothing; & this urged with a most extreme intemperance. The greatness of the powers given, & the multitude of Places to be created, produces a coalition of Monarchy men, Military Men, Aristo crats, and Drones whose noise, imprudence & zeal exceeds all be- lief—Whilst the Commercial plunder of the South stimulates the rapa cious Trader. In this state of things, the Patriot voice is raised in vain for such changes and securities as Reason and Experience prove to be necessary against the encroachments of power upon the indispens able rights of human nature. Upon due consideration of the Constitu tion under which we now Act, some of us were clearly of opinion that the 13th article of the Confederation 2 precluded us from giving an opinion concerning a plan subversive of the present system and even tually forming a New Confederacy of Nine instead of 13 States. The contrary doctrine was asserted with great violence in expectation of
