October 1, 1787 459 the strong majority with which they might send it foward under terms of much approbation. Having procured an opinion that Congress was qualified to consider, to amend, to approve or disapprove—the next game was to determine that tho a right to amend existed, it would be highly inexpedient to exercise that right; but surely to transmit it with respectful marks of approbation. In this state of things I availed myself of the Right to amend, & moved the Amendments copy of which I send herewith 3 & called the ayes & nays to fix them on the journal. This greatly alarmed the Majority & vexed them extremely—for the plan is, to push the business on with great dispatch, & with as little op position as possible: that it may be adopted before it has stood the test of Reflection & due examination. They found it most eligible at last to transmit it merely, without approving or disapproving; provided noth ing but the transmission should appear on the Journal. This compro mise was settled and they took the opportunity of inserting the word Unanimously, which applied only to simple transmission, hoping to have it mistaken for an Unanimous approbation of the thing. It states that Congress having Received the Constitution unanimously transmit it &c. It is certain that no Approbation was given. This constitution has a great many excellent Regulations in it, and if it could be reason ably amended would be a fine System. As it is, I think ‘tis past doubt, that if it should be established, either a tyranny will result from it, or it will be prevented by a Civil war. I am clearly of opinion with you that it should be sent back with amendments Reasonable and Assent to it with held until such amendments are admitted. You are well ac quainted with Mr. Stone & others of influence in Maryland. I think it will be a great point to get Maryld. & Virginia to join in the plan of Amendments & return it with them. If you are in correspondence with our Chancelor Pendelton, it will be of much use to furnish him with the objections, and if he approves our plan, his opinion will have great weight with our Convention, and I am told that his relation Judge Pendleton of South Carolina has decided weight in the State, 4 & that he is sensible & independent. How important will it be then to procure his union with our plan, which might probably be the case, if our Chancelor was to write largely & pressingly to him on the subject; that if possible it may be amended there also. It is certainly the most rash and violent proceeding in the world to cram thus suddenly into Men a business of such infinite Moment to the happiness of Millions. One of your letters will go by the Packet, and one by a Merchant Ship. My compliments if you please to Your Lady & to the young Ladies & Gentlemen. I am dear Sir affectionately Yours, Richard Henry Lee [PS.] Suppose when the Assembly recommended a Convention to consider this new Constitution they were to use some words like these—It is earnestly recommended to the good people of Virginia to
