460 October 1, 1787 send their most wise & honest Men to this Convention that it may un dergo the most intense consideration before a plan shall be without amendments adopted that admits of abuses being practised by which the best interests of this Country may be injured and Civil Liberty greatly endanger’d. This might perhaps give a decided Tone to the business. Please to send my Son Ludwell a Copy of the Amendments proposed by me to the new Constitution sent herewith. RC (DLC: Mason Papers). 1 Not found. 2 See JCC, 19:221-22. 3 See the enclosure to Lee to Elbridge Gerry, September 29. 4 Lee is referring to Chancellor Edmund Pendleton of Virginia and his nephew Henry Pendleton (1750-88), who was a justice of the South Carolina Court of Common Pleas. James Madison to Tench Coxe Dear Sir N. York Octr. 1. 1787. I have received & perused with much pleasure the remarks on the proposed Constitution for the U.S. which you have been so good as to favor me with. 1 They cannot fail I think to satisfy the most scrupulous & jealous citizens, that the Act of the Convention, whatever faults it may have in other respects is not chargeable with a dangerous simili tude to real monarchy or Aristocracy. Col. Hamilton happens not to be in the City at present. As soon as he returns your commands with respect to him shall be executed. I take it for granted that the Printers here will of themselves republish these pieces from the Philadelphia Papers. 1 think it not improbable that the subject & execution of them will attract the notice of the printers in most of the States. To ensure their republication however in Virginia, I will forward the copies, as soon as I discover which of my correspondents will be the most willing agents in a communication with our printers. At present I am a per fect stranger to the sentiments of all of them on the merits of the new System, and have reason to believe that a direct application to the printer from any member of the Convention, would be made use of to disparage the Publication. With great esteem & regard I am, Sir, Yr. Obedt. humble servt., Js. Madison Jr RC (PHi: Coxe Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 10:183. 1 For Coxe’s letter of September 27 enclosing copies of his first three letters printed in the Philadelphia Independent Gazetteer under the pseudonym “An American Citizen,” see ibid., pp. 175—76; and Doc. Hist. ofRatif., 13:247—51, 264—66, 272—73.
