Octobers, 1787 461 Richard Henry Lee to William Shippen, Jr. My dear Sir, New York October 2d. 1787 I thank you very sincerely for your last letter, and its enclosures which are now returned. It is indeed a great addition to my happiness to know that my dear Nephew is so pleasingly and improvingly placed—for I have not a doubt but that he will make the best use of his situation which being so well contrived to delight the Mind, must necessary render its improvement more certain. I am much obliged by your assurance that you will have the Smallpox directions ready for me. I desired my friend Starr to have the Boots ready for me against my return to Phila. on the 6th of next Month in my way home. But upon further consideration, I shall want the Boots here to travel in to Phila. as the Season will be cool. Will you be so kind as tell him this, and that I desire he will have them made immediately with a pair of proper boot straps fitted to them, so that You or he may take the op portunity of some safe and friendly person coming here who may bring them to me before the 3d of November, or as soon after this as possible, that I may not be disappointed. I have considered the new Constitution will [i.e., with] all the attention and candor that the thing and the times render necessary, & I find it impossible for me to doubt, that in its present State, unamended, the adoption of it will put Civil Liberty and the happiness of the people at the mercy of rulers who may possess the great unguarded powers given. And I assure you that confidence in the moderation or benignity of power is not a plant of quick growth in a reflecting bosom. The necessary alterations will by no means interfere with the general nature of the plan, or limit the power of doing good; but they will restrain from oppression the wicked & Tyrannic. If all men were wise & good there would be no ne cessity for government or law. But the folly & the vice of human na ture renders government & laws necessary for the Many, and re straints indispensable to prevent oppression from those who are entrusted with the administration of one & the dispensation of the other. You will see herewith the amendments that appeared to me necessary, 1 they are submitted to you and my Excellent old friend at German Town. 2 Perhaps they may be submitted to the world at large. My good old friend has made himself better acquainted with Hip pocrates than with Plato, and relying upon the goodness of his own heart, witht. reflecting upon the corrupting & encroaching nature of power, he is willing to trust to its fangs more than experience justifies. The malady of human nature in these states now, seems to be as it was in the years 1778 & 1779 with respect to the effect produced by a cer tain Combination. The Malady that I mean is a temporary Insanity. I wish that the present may subside with as little public injury as it for-
