October 8, 1787 471 the trouble, and a Summer’s Confinement, which injured my health much. As yet, the System We had the honor of submitting to the States, meets with general approbation. A few designing, Intrigueing, Men, of desparate Circumstances, may be opposed to; but the bulk of the People, I am of opinion, like it. The Change, in my judgement, was well timed. A Body so Constituted as Congress, are quite unequal to govern so Extensive a Country, as the thirteen States. All Ranks of Men saw the Necessity of a Change—they wisely had recourse to rea son, and not Arms, for the Accomplishment of it. In this Instance America has sett a laudable Example to Civilized Europe. It might be well for the United Provinces, and perhaps, France, to follow it; for I think the latter appears to be verging towards a Change. If Our pub lick Prints speak truth, the former is like to experience the miseries at tendant on the very worst of Wars. The hour of their greatness, & per haps, wealth, in my Judgement, is past; they will, probably, sooner, or later, be swallowed up by the great Empires. If I can hear of any per son going to London, I will send You a Copy of the result of Our de liberations; it is not worth the expence of postage, or I woud now en close it to You. We, in many instances, took the Constitution of Britain, when in its purity, for a model and surely We cou’d not have a better. We tried to avoid, what appeared to Us, the weak parts of Antient, as well as modern Republicks. How will We have succeeded, is left for You, and other Letterd Men to determine. It is some what sin gular, yet so the fact is, that I have never met with any Dutch Man, who understood the Constitution of his own Country. It is, certainly a very complex, unwieldly piece of business. I have read different Histo ries of it, with attention, and to this hour, I have but a very inadequate idea of it. Pray give me Your opinion, freely of the One I had some small hand in frameing; after You have read it. In passing judgement on it, You must call to mind, that We had Clashing Interests to recon cile—some strong prejudices to encounter, for the same spirit that brought settlers to a certain Quarter of this Country, is still alive in it. View the System there, as resulting from a spirit of Accommodation to different Interests, and not the most perfect One that the Deputies cou’d devise for a Country better adapted to the reception of it, than America is at this day, or perhaps ever will be. It is a great Extent of Territory to be under One free Government; the measures and modes of thinking, of the Inhabitants, differing nearly as much, as indiffer ent Nations of Europe. If We can secure tranquility at Home, and re spect from abroad, they will be great points gain’d. We have, as You will see, taken a portion of power from the Individ ual States, to form a General Government for the whole, to preserve the Union. The General Government, to Consist of two Branches of Legislature and an Executive, to be Vested in One person, for four Years, but Elligible again. The first Branch of the Legislature, to be
