472 October 8, 1787 Elected by the Pepple, of the different States, agreeable to a ratio of Numbers & wealth; to serve for two Years. The Second to Consist of two Members from each state, to be appointed by the Legislatures of the States, to serve for six Years, One third to go out every two Years, but to be Eligible again, if their state thinks proper to appoint them. A Judiciary to be Supreme in all matters relating to the General Govern ment, and Appellate in State Controversies. The powers of the Gen eral Government are so defined, as not to destroy the Sovereignty of the Individual States. These are the Outlines, if I was to be more minute, I shoud tire Your patience. I beg You will present the best regards of my Family to Mrs Butler— And Believe me to be, Dear sir, Yr Affecte and sincere friend. P Butler. [PS.] I am Concerned at the fate of the Box Mrs Butler sent by Cap tain Angus. I hope the Hoghshead of Madeira, that went by the Ship Castle Douglass, for You, will have better luck. It woud hurt me, to have it fall into other hands than Your own, because it is real fine Old Madeira Wine, of the very first quality. It went to the Care of Messrs. Sempson & Davission. RC (British Museum: Additional Manuscripts, 16,603). Endorsed: “Ansd. 24 Deer. 1787. Xmas Eve.” 1 That is, at the Philadelphia Convention. Lambert Cadwalader to George Mitchell Sir N YorkOctr 8. 1787. I have now before me yours of the 12 & 27 Septr. I left a Letter with Mr. Hunt with the Advertizements inclosed to go by Tunnel wh I sup pose you have reed. I have seen Hill who brought a Load to this Mar ket—he came to me just after his Arrival but as there were several Shallops laden with Shingles in Port and wh were of a much better Quality than ours there was little Prospect of selling. The Price of these Carolina Shingles, is £4 N York Money but as Douglass informs me ours will not sell even at a lower Price they must be yarded. We are intirely cut out of this Trade by the Carolinans owing to the Superior ity of their Shingles. I have the best Law Advice relative to the Will of G1 Dagworthy & I think we shall stand justified before any Court in the World for not throwing away the Property of the Estate. You very well know and so do the Court that it is utterly impracticable & has been since G1 Ds Death to dispose of the Lands to pay the Debts as they would fetch nothing, this is evident from the Nature of the Times, and the many
