478 October 11, 1787 employ another Convention when provided with the sense of the dif ferent States npon those alterations. I am much inclined to believe that the amendments generally thought to be necessary, will be found to be of such a nature, as tho they do not oppose the exercise of a very competent federal power; are yet such as the best Theories on Government, and the best prac tise upon those theories have found necessary. At the same time that they are such as the opinions of our people have for ages been fixed on. It would be unnecessary for me here to enumerate particulars as I expect the honor of waiting on you at Mount Vernon in my way home early in November. 4 In the meantime I have only to request that my best respects may be presented to your Lady and that I may be re membered to the rest of the good family of Mount Vernon. I have the honor to be dear Sir, with the most unfeigned respect, es teem, and affection, Your most obedient and very humble servant, Richard Henry Lee. [PS.] If the next Packets should bring us any important advices from Europe I will communicate them to you immediately. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 For Washington’s letter of July 19, see Washington, Writings, 29:249-50. 2 See William Grayson to James Madison, August 31, note 3. 3 This hope was articulated again a week later by an unidentified member of Congress in the following extract which appeared in the December 5 issue of the Hamp shire Gazette (Northampton, Mass.) under the caption “Extract of a letter from a mem ber of Congress to his friend in Virginia, dated October 18.” “We have a good prospect of selling 8 or 9 millions of federal lands, for sinking the domestic debt; and now it seems quite probable that the cession of Virginia alone will extinguish the whole of that debt, great as it is—being thirty millions of dollars.” 4 While Lee did not enclose a copy of his proposed amendments, he did visit Wash ington at Mt. Vernon November 11-12. Washington, Diaries (Jackson & Twohig), 5:214. James Madison to Ambrose Madison Dear brother N. York Ocr. 11. [ 17] 87. Your favor of the 24 of Sepr. did not come to hand till the day be fore yesterday. I am glad to find the State of Crops in your quarter not worse. From the general information I had feared that very little Tobo. would be made, and scarce any corn. I am at a loss what to say as to brother Wms. adventurig. into public life. The prospect of ser vice to His Country does not appear to me to call for much personal sacrifice. Nor can the honor, the profit or the pleasure of the under taking, be any object. At the same time if his inclination is on that side, and his private affairs will admit, I would not be understood to discountenance the measure. I recommend it to him however not to
