October 16, 1787 483 commentaries, (article Jury Trial,) says, it is the most transcendant privilege which any subject can enjoy, or wish for, that he cannot be af fected either in his property, his liberty, or his person, but by the unanimous consent of twelve of his neighbours and equals. 2 A consti tution, that I may venture to affirm, has, under providence, secured the just liberties of this nation for a long succession of ages; the impar tial administration of justice, which secures both our persons and our properties, is the great end of civil society. But if that be entirely trusted to the magistracy, a select body of men, and those generally se lected by the prince, or such as enjoy the highest offices of the state, their decisions, in spite of their own natural integrity, will have fre quently an involuntary bias towards those of their own rank and dig nity. It is not to be expected, from human nature, that the few should be always attentive to the good of the many. The learned judge fur ther says, that “every new tribunal, erected for the decision of facts, is a step towards establishing aristocracy, the most oppressive of all gov ernments.” 3 The answer to these objections is, that the new legislature may provide remedies! But as they may, so they may not, and if they did, a succeeding assembly may repeal the provisions. The evil is found resting upon constitutional bottom, and the remedy upon the mutable ground of legislation, revocable at every annual meeting. It is the more unfortunate that this great security of human rights, the trial by jury, should be weakened in this system, as power is unnecessarily given, in the second section of the third article, to call people from their own country, in all cases of controversy about property between citizens of different states and foreigners, to be tried in a distant court where the Congress may sit; for although inferior congressional courts may, for the above purpose, be instituted in the different states, yet this is a matter altogether in the pleasure of the new legislature; so that if they please not to institute them, or if they do not regulate the right of appeal, the people will be exposed to endless oppression, and the necessity of submitting to pay unjust demands rather than follow suitors, through great expense, to far distant tribunals, and to be de termined upon there, as it may be, without a jury. In this congres sional legislature a bare majority can enact commercial laws, so that the representatives of the seven northern states, as they will have a ma jority, can, by law, create the most oppressive monopolies upon the five southern states, whose circumstances and productions are essen tially different from theirs, although not a single man of their voters are the representatives of, or amenable to, the people of the southern states. Can such a set of men be, with the least colour of truth, called representatives of those they make laws for? It is supposed that the policy of the northern states will prevent such abuses! but how feeble, sir, is policy when opposed to interest among trading people, and what is the restraint arising from policy? It is said that we may be
