484 October 16,1787 forced, by abuse, to become ship-builders; but how long will it be be fore a people of agriculture can produce ships sufficient to export such bulky and such extensive commodities as ours; and if we had the ships, from whence are the seamen to come? four thousand of whom, at least, we shall want in Virginia. In questions so liable to abuses, why was not the necessary vote put to two-thirds of the members of the leg islature? 4 [With the constitution came from the convention, so many members of that body to Congress, and of those too, who were among the most fiery zealots for their system, that the votes of three states being of them, two states divided by them, and many others mixed with them, it is easy to see that Congress could have little opinion upon the subject. 5 Some denied our right to make amendments, whilst others more moderate agreed to the right, but denied the expe diency of amending; but it was plain that a majority was ready to send it on in terms of approbation—my judgment and conscience forbid the last, and therefore I moved the amendments that I have the honor to send you inclosed herewith, 6 and demanded the yeas and nays that they might appear on the journal. This seemed to alarm and to pre vent such appearance on the journal, it was agreed to transmit the constitution without a syllable of approbation or disapprobation; so that the term unanimously only applied to the transmission, as you will observe by attending to the terms of the resolve for transmitting.] Upon the whole, sir, my opinion is, that, as this constitution abounds with useful reg[u]lations, at the same time that it is liable to strong and fundamental objections, the plan for us to pursue will be to pro pose the necessary amendments, and express our willingness to adopt it with the amendments; and to suggest the calling a new convention for the purpose of considering them. To this I see no well-founded ob jection, but great safety and much good to be the probable result. I am perfectly satisfied that you make such use of this letter as you shall think to be for the public good. And now, after begging your pardon for so great a trespass on your patience, and presenting my best re spects to your lady, I will conclude with assuring you that, I am, with the sincerest esteem and regard, dear sir, Your most affectionate and obedient servant, Richard Henry Lee. 7 Reprinted from Richard H. Lee, Memoir of the Life of Richard Henry Lee, 2 vols. (Philadel phia: H. C. Carey and I. Lea, 1825), 2:78-81. 1 See William Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of England, 4 vols. (Philadelphia, R. Bell, 1771-72; reprinted from the 4th ed., Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1770), 1:129. 2 Ibid., 3:379. 3 That is, “Every new tribunal, erected for the decision of facts, without the interven tion of a jury, (whether [the tribunal is] composed of justices of the peace, commission ers of the revenue judges of a court of conscience, or any other standing magistrates) is a step towards establishing aristocracy, the most oppressive of absolute governments.” Ibid., p. 380.
