October 22, 1787 489 On the contrary we learn that the Assembly of N. Hamshire which reed, the constitution on the point of their adjournment, were ex tremely pleased with it. All the information from Massts. denotes a fa vorable impression there. The Legislature of Connecticut have unani mously recommended the choice of a Convention in that State. And Mr. Baldwin who is just from the spot tells me that from present ap pearances the opposition will be inconsiderable; that the Assembly if it depended on them would adopt the System almost unanimously; and that the Clergy and all the literary men are exerting themselves in its favor. Rho. Island is divided; The majority being violently agst. it. The temper of this State cannot yet be fully discerned. A strong party is in favor of it. But they will probably be outnumbered if those whose sentiments are not yet known, should take the opposite side. N. Jersey appears to be zealous. Meetings of the people in different counties are declaring their approbation & instructing their representatives. There will probably be a strong opposition in Penna. The other side however continue to be sanguine. Doer. Carroll 5 who came hither lately from Maryland tells me, that the public voice there appears at present to be decidedly in favor of the Constitution. Notwithstanding all these circumstances, I am far from considering the public mind as fully known or finally settled on the subject. They amount only to a strong presumption that the general sentiment in the Eastern & mid dle States is friendly to the proposed System at this time. Present me respectfully to Mrs. R. and accept the most fervent wishes for your happiness from your Affece. friend, Js. Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 10:199-200. 1 That is, Madison to Randolph, October 7. 2 See Madison to Washington, October 18, note 7. 3 For the Rev. James Madison’s letter of ca. October 1, see ibid., pp. 183-85. 4 Madison is referring to the appearance of the first of sixteen essays by “Brutus” in the New York Journal for October 18, for which see Melancton Smith to Andrew Craigie, October 4, note 2; and Doc. Hist. oJRatif, 13:411-21. 5 That is, the Rev. John Carroll, brother of Daniel Carroll who had attended the Philadelphia Convention with Madison. William Grayson to James Monroe Dear Sir N York 22nd. Octob. 1787 I have recieved your favor, and delivered the enclosure to Miss Kor- tright; the Capt. being on a trip to the township. Congress four days since made a contract with Royal Flint & Associates of N. York for three millions of acres on the Wabash on nearly the same terms as that of Cutler & Serjeant. 1 I believe I informed you that Judge Symms of Jersey had contracted for two millions between the Great & the lit-
