October 23, 1787 495 Some Gentlemen apprehend that this project is the foundation of a Monarchy, or at least an oppressive Aristocracy; but my apprehensions are rather from the inroads of the democracy. It is true there is a pre posterous combination of powers in the President and Senate, which may be used improperly, but time is to discover whether the tendency of abuse, will be to strengthen or relax—at all events this part of the consti[tu]tion must be exceptionable. But when we consider the de gree of democracy of which the scheme itself partakes, with the addi tion of that which will be constantly operating upon it, it clearly ap pears to my mind, that the prevailing infractions are to be expected from thence. As State acts can go into effect without the direct con- troul of the general Government, having clearly defined the objects of their legislation, will not secure the federal ground against their en croachments. A disposition to encroach must, in the nature of the thing exist, and the democratic branch in the federal legislature, will be more likely to cover their approaches, than resist them. The Western Territory belonging to the United States has more ef fectually received the attention of Congress during this session than it ever did before. Inclosed you will receive the ordinance for estab lishing a Temporary Government there, and providing for its more easy passage into permanent State Governments. 6 Under the old ar rangement the country might upon the whole have become very populous, & yet be inadmissable to the rights of State government, which would have been disgusting to them & ultimately inconvenient for the Empire. The new arrangement depends on the accession of Virginia which there can be no doubt of obtaining. The Offices of the T. Government are filled up as follows. Genl. St. Clair Govr., Winthrop Sargent Secretary, Genl. Parsons, Genl. Armstrong junr. & Genl. Varnum, Judges. Seven Ranges of Townships are surveyed—they extend nearly to Muskingum and contain about 12 or 15 Millions of Acres. About 130,000 Acres have been sold according to the ordinance. The sur veys will probably go no further in strict pursuance of the ordinance, but still the System will be preserved in the conditions of contracts for large Tracts of the Country, to companies of adventurers. The first instance of this mode presents itself in an authority to the Trea sury Board in August last, to contract with a large Company of New Englanders, 7 for all the Country from the seventh Range, to Sioto, within a due west line to be continued from the Northern boundary of the tenth Township—the whole of this Tract is supposed to con tain about 5 Millions of Acres. The terms are, that the U.S. shall sur vey & demark the external boundaries, and ascertain the contents of the Tract—the Company to lay it out at their own expence, into Townships & sections agreably to the ordinance, subject to the re serves therein described except that one of the sections for future
