496 October 23, 1787 sale, shall be granted for the purposes of religion, and there are also two compleat Townships granted for an University in or near the Middle of the Tract. All other lands good, bad, & indifferent, to be pd. for at %ds. of a dollar per Acre in Securities, excluding the inter est—half a Million of dollars to be paid down upon closing the con tract, and possession taken so far as such payment will cover. After wards payment and occupancy are to go on, pari passu, at certain periods, under certain stipulations of reciprocal ensurance. This con tract is now actually closed. Another offer is made by judge Symes and his associates from Jersey, for about 2 Millions between the Mi- amis upon the same terms, and sundry other propositions are form ing, whereupon Congress have authorised the Treasury Board, to sell by Contract any quantity not less than a Million, making the terms of the Eastern Company the ground, with deviations from the grant for an University, and that for Religion, unless the Tract be equally large. This mode of sale will relieve the U.S. of much expence, and the progress of the sales promise to be sufficiently rapid to give our peo ple early relief from the pressure of the domestic debt. I am inclined to believe that some successful experiment might be made for the sale [o/] a part of this territory in Europe, and have sug gested a trial with a few Ranges of the surveyed Townships. It did not strike Congress as eligible and of course no step was taken in it. I do not suppose it would be worth while to try the project on any but lands actually surveyed and well described. We have received no accounts from Europe since your August dis patches, of course the state of things there are in considerable obscu rity as to us. Your remarks upon the French loan have occasioned some discus sion in Congress, but many reasons operate to prevent an assent to your proposition. By some it is supposed it would be found inconve nient to shift from Creditors that will not complain of our delin quency, to those that will, by others that we have reason to rely upon the indulgence of France in the case of a debt which was contracted for the common benefit of the two nations. My own opinion is that the transfer ought to be made if practicable. I have the Honor to be, with sincere regard, dr. Sir, Your Most Obt. Servt., Ed. Carrington RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). 1 For which see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 11:678-80. 2 See Carrington to Jefferson, June 9. 3 That is, George Clinton. 4 For the Pennsylvania ratification struggle, see Doc. Hist. ofRatif, 2:54—120. 5 For the eventual publication in December of Gov. Edmund Randolph’s reasons for not signing the Constitution, see Doc. Hist. ofRatif., 8:260-74. 6 See JCC, 32:334-43, 33:757. 7 Carrington was referring to the combined purchase of the Ohio and Scioto compa nies, for which see Richard Henry Lee to Francis Lightfoot Lee, July 14, note 3.
