506 October 24, 1787 spect. Were this in reality the case, their reasoning would be conclu sive. The interest of the majority would be that of the minority also; the decisions could only turn on mere opinion concerning the good of the whole, of which the major voice would be the safest criterion; and within a small sphere, this voice could be most easily collected, and the public affairs most accurately managed. We know however that no Society ever did or can consist of so homogenous a mass of Citizens. In the savage State indeed, an approach is made towards it; but in that State little or no Government is necessary. In all civilized Societies, distinctions are various and unavoidable. A distinction of property results from that very protection which a free Government gives to unequal faculties of acquiring it. There will be rich and poor; creditors and debtors; a landed interest, a monied interest, a mercan tile interest, a manufacturing interest. These classes may again be sub divided according to the different productions of different situations & soils, & according to different branches of commerce, and of manu factures. In addition to these natural distinctions, artificial ones will be founded, on accidental differences in political, religious or other opinions, or an attachment to the persons of leading individuals. However erroneous or ridiculous these grounds of dissention and fac tion, may appear to the enlightened Statesman, or the benevolent philosopher, the bulk of mankind who are neither Statesmen nor Philosophers, will continue to view them in a different light. It re mains then to be enquired whether a majority having any common in terest, or feeling any common passion, will find sufficient motives to restrain them from oppressing the minority. An individual is never al lowed to be a judge or even a witness in his own cause. If two individu als are under the biass of interest or enmity agst. a third, the rights of the latter could never be safely referred to the majority of the three. Will two thousand individuals be less apt to oppress one thousand, or two hundred thousand, one hundred thousand? Three motives only can restrain in such cases. 1. a prudent regard to private or partial good, as essentially involved in the general and permanent good of the whole. This ought no doubt to be sufficient of itself. Experience however shews that it has little effect on individuals, and perhaps still less on a collection of individuals, and least of all on a majority with the public authority in their hands. If the former are ready to forget that honesty is the best policy; the last do more. They often proceed on the converse of the maxim: that whatever is politic is honest. 2. re spect for character. This motive is not found sufficient to restrain indi viduals from injustice, and loses its efficacy in proportion to the num ber which is to divide the praise or the blame. Besides as it has reference to public opinion, which is that of the majority, the Stan dard is fixed by those whose conduct is to be measured by it. 3. Reli gion. The inefficacy of this restraint on individuals is well known. The
