October 24, 1787 509 justifying his refusal to sign, he will of course muster every possible one. His conduct has given great umbrage to the County of Fairfax, and particularly to the Town of Alexandria. He is already instructed to promote in the Assembly the calling a Convention, and will probably be either not deputed to the Convention, or be tied up by express in structions. He did not object in general to the powers vested in the National Government, so much as to the modification. In some re spects he admitted that some further powers would have improved the system. He acknowledged in particular that a negative on the States laws, and the appointment of the State Executives ought to be ingredi ents; but supposed that the public mind would not now bear them, and that experience would hereafter produce these amendments. The final reception which will be given by the people at large to the proposed System can not yet be decided. The Legislature of N. Hamp shire was sitting when it reached that State and was well pleased with it. As far as the sense of the people there has been expressed, it is equally favorable. Boston is warm and almost unanimous in embrac ing it. The impression on the Country is not yet known. No symptoms of disapprobation have appeared. The Legislature of that State is now sitting, through which the sense of the people at large will soon be promulged with tolerable certainty. The paper money faction in Rh. Island is hostile, The other party zealousy attached to it. Its passage through Connecticut is likely to be very smooth and easy. There seems to be less agitation in this 9 State than any where. The discussion of the subject seems confined to the newspapers. The principal characters are known to be friendly. The Governour’s party which has hitherto been the popular & most numerous one, is supposed to be on the op posite side; but considerable reserve is practised, of which he sets the example. N. Jersey takes the affirmative side of course. Meetings of the people are declaring their approbation, and instructing their rep resentatives. Penna, will be divided. The City of Philada., the Republi can party, the Quakers, and most of the Germans espouse the Consti tution. Some of the Constitutional leaders, backed by the western Country will oppose. An unlucky ferment on the subject in their As sembly just before its late adjournment has irritated both sides, partic ularly the opposition, and by redoubling the exertions of that party may render the event doubtful. The voice of Maryland I understand from pretty good authority, is, as far as it has been declared, strongly in favor of the Constitution. Mr. Chase is an enemy, but the Town of Baltimore which he now represents, is warmly attached to it, and will shackle him as far as they can. Mr. Paca will probably be, as usual, in the politics of Chase. My information from Virginia is as yet extremely imperfect. I have a letter from Genl. Washington which speaks favor ably of the impression within a circle of some extent; and another from Chancellor Pendleton which expresses his full acceptance of the
