October 24, 1787 511 any new loan however small, that should now be made, would proba bly subject us to the reproach of premeditated deception. The bal ance of Mr. Adams’ last loan will be wanted for the interest due in Holland, and with all the income here, will, it is feared, not save our credit in Europe from further wounds. It may well be doubted whether the present Govt, can be kept alive thro’ the ensuing year, or untill the new one may take its place. Upwards of 100,000 Acres of the surveyed lands of the U.S. have been disposed of in open market. Five million of unsurveyed have been sold by private contract to a N. England Company, at % of a dol lar per acre, payment to be made in the principal of the public secu rities. A negociation is nearly closed with a N. Jersey Company for two million more on like terms, and another commenced with a Com pany of this City for four million. Col. Carrington writes more fully on this subject. 14 You will receive herewith the desired information from Aiderman Broome in the case of Mr. Burke. 15 Also the Virga. Bill on crimes & punishments. Sundry alterations having been made in conformity to the sense of the House in its latter stages, it is less accurate & methodi cal than it ought to have been. 16 To these papers I add a Speech of Mr. C. P. on the Mississippi business. It is printed under precautions of secresy, but surely could not have been properly exposed to so much risk of publication. 17 You will find also among the Pamp[h]lets & pa pers I send by Commodore Jones, another printed speech of the same Gentleman. 18 The Musseum, Magazine, 19 & Philada. Gazettes, will give you a tolerable idea of the objects of present attention. The summer crops in the Eastern & Middle States have been ex tremely plentiful. Southward of Virga. They differ in different places. On the whole I do not know that they are bad in that region. In Vir ginia the drought has been unprecedented, particularly between the falls of the Rivers & the Mountains. The Crops of Corn are in general alarmingly short. In Orange I find there will be scarcely subsistence for the inhabitants. I have not heard from Albemarle. The crops of Tobo. are every where said to be pretty good in point of quantity, & the quality unusually fine. The crops of wheat were also in general ex cellent in quality & tolerable in quantity. Novr. 1. Commodore 20 Jones having preferred another vessel to the packet, has remained here till this time. The interval has produced lit tle necessary to be added to the above. The Legislature of Massts. has it seems taken up the Act of the Convention, and have appointed or probably will appoint an early day for its State Convention. There are letters also from Georgia which denote a favorable disposition. I am informed from Richmond that the New Election-law from the Revised Code produced a pretty full House of Delegates, as well as a Senate, on the first day. It had previously had equal effect in producing full
