October 25, 1787 519 York & Pensylvania—in the latter it was, as probably, occasioned by the intemperance of the most zealous freinds of the measure, as, ob jections against the plan. Of this circumstance I have given Mr. Jeffer son a particular detail to which permit me to refer you. In the former some individual publications are exhibitted in the papers, but we have no evidence of their being regarded by the populace—the Men in Of fice in this State view, with great reluctance, the diminution of state emoluments and consequence—they hold their appointments under an influence which will not, in all probability, serve them upon a more extensive scale of politics. The Governor is perfectly silent, but, it is suspected, wishes the miscarriage of the measure, taking his usual guard against being committed in a fruitless opposition. From the Southern States our information is very imperfect, but from the zeal and unanimity of the Members from the Carolina’s and Georgia, as well in Convention as Congress, and from the known influence of Men of this description in those States, it is well to [sic] understood that the proposed scheme will be favorably received in that quarter. In Virginia we learn from superficial accounts from the Assembly upon their first meeting, that a great Majority of the members declare in its favor—but it has meet with the dissent of two of her members in Con vention, & was disapproved by the same number of those who repre sented her in Congress. These dissentients were Colo. Mason & Govr. Randolph in Convention who refused to sign the report. Mr. R. H. Lee & Mr. Grayson in Congress, who were actually agt. an approbatory Act, although they agreed to join in the bare recommendation of con ventions for its consideration in the States. From characters of this dis cription being opposed, we are naturally to apprehend some difficulty in that State, but I am led to believe that the generality of the adop tion which is probable in the other States, will have much influence in bringing her into the measure. We have not yet been informed what part Mr. Henry will take—much will depend on him. Mr. Madison has forwarded to Mr. Jefferson seve[ral] Pamphlets and peices which have been written for and against the Constitution from which you will have a view of the train of discussion it is under going; 2 and having, by this same opportunity written very fully to Mr. Jefferson, a repetition of the same to you will be needless, and to find new materials is not at present within my scope in the line of poli tics—my plan in future will be to write you alternately, by the packets. Richmond does not stand where it did when you left it, having crept up, and over Shockoe Hill—it met with a severe stroke last Winter in the Burning of about 70 Houses in the heart of the Commercial busi ness, including Byrds Warehouse—in this Calamity our old & worthy Freind Foushee lost nearly his all, having crowded most of his prop erty in buildings upon the ill fated spot, the whole of which were con sumed. That poor man Curry also suffered in the loss of the greatest
