520 October 25, 1787 private house ever built perhaps in Virga—it was brick & for the first year in the occupancy of Mr. Robt. Anderson as a Tavern. I have had so little connection with that Metropolis for sometime that I am almost as great a stranger to the changes which have taken place in its domestic arrangements as yourself. Miss Ambler shortly after your departure sacrafic[e]d at the alter of Hymen at the tender solicitation of Colo. Brent, whose death in a very few months after wards left her to bless some other fortunate man with the possession of her charms—she is however still single having dismissed the suits of several worthy & valuable characters. Miss Marshal has also surren dered herself <absolute> to the discretion of Mr. Raleigh Colston whose retirement at Winchester is solaced by her partaking in it with him. Miss Lucy Randolph whom you knew at Wilton, has contracted a for eign alliance with Mr. Latil a french Gentleman who is in Virga, as Agent for Mr. de Baumarchais, and will probably figure in Paris before you leave it. Be good enough to let me hear from you often—your information upon European politics are not only extremely agreable but useful to me. I am my dr Sir, with great Sincerity, Your Freind & very Humble Servt., Ed. Carrington P.S. The disapprobation of Mr. R. H. L. and that of Mr. G. 3 are founded on very opposite principles—the former thinks the Constitu tion too strong, the latter is of opinion that is too weak. RC (DLC: William Short Papers). 1 See Carrington to Thomasjefferson, October 23. 2 See James Madison to Thomasjefferson, October 24. 3 That is, Richard Henry Lee and William Grayson. Charles Thomson to Richard Caswell and George Mathews Sir, Office of Secretary of Congress, October 25. 1787. I have the honor of transmitting to Your Excellency herewith in closed a representation of the United States in Congress Assembled to the States of North Carolina & Georgia on the subject of surrendering a portion of their territorial Claims for the general benefit. 1 In order to give your Excellency a more comprehensive view of the subject I have thought it not improper to accompany the present Act of Congress with a Copy of their first recommendation and the decla ration and Instructions of Maryland which gave rise to it, 2 and beg leave to inform you that when Maryland empowered her delegates to
