October 27, 1787 523 your Obt. & very Hble Servt., Rufus King RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 For the adoption of these October 5 resolutions, and their transmission to Adams by John Jay October 16, see Richard Henry Lee to Adams, September 3, note 4. 2 For Congress’ October 11 ratification of Adams’ last Dutch loan contract, which is in PCC, item 145, fols. 271-95, see JCC, 33:649. 3 See JCC, 33:613-15. 4 For the “customary Allowance” granted October 2, see JCC, 31:874-75, 33:588-89. Francis Dana’s “private Secretary while at St. Petersburgh” had been John Quincy Adams. The settlement of Dana’s accounts had long been delayed, and at one point treasury commissioner Samuel Osgood had been moved to issue the following detailed explana tion of treasury procedures to mollify Dana, whose expenses had originally been ap proved by Congress July 22, 1785 (JCC, 29:569-70). The passage provides considerable insight into the workings of Congress and its agencies. “When Congress refer a Matter to the Board [of treasury] to report upon, the Board examine the Merits in the first Instance, & report, more usually, without having any Re course to the Comptroller. When Congress pass a Resolution that an indefinite Sum shall be allowed to a Person; The actual Sum due, is ascertained at the Comptroller’s Office; in which, there are three independent Officers under Oath. The Clerk exam ines the Account in the first Instance, & Reports to the Auditor—this Officer examines it; & if the Claimant is dissatisfied with the Clerk’s & Auditor’s Decisions, he has a Right to appeal to the Comptroller, whose Decision is final; & the Board of Treasury have no Power to alter it. Whatever the Comptroller finds due, he certifies the Amount to the Board of Treasury, who issue their Warrant on the Treasurer for the same. “You observe that Mr. Gerry in his Letter to you of the 22d July says ‘The Board of Treasury made no Report respecting your private Secretary, & there being no Account of the Expence’ &c. ‘For the Auditor in his Report of the same Date, says Mr. Dana’s Charge of Salary for a private Secretary’ &ca. The Words of the Auditor, prove that he had before him your second Account, which you enclosed to me, & in which you had charged the Salary agreeably to my Request. I beg you to look to the Date of this Report again, it cannot be in July. The second Acct, was referred to that Office the Day of Octo. & the Reports I furnished to you must bear Date after that Time. “I was extremely sorry that the proper Officers for passing your Account made any Difficulty about it. But the Commissioners of the Treasury have no Right to interfere. The Report of the Clerk who examined your Account in the first Instance, I did not for ward to you; The Clerk is severe upon Mr. [Walter] Livingston & myself, for giving an Opinion in Our Letter referring the Acct, that Congress by their act of 22d July had al lowed the Charge, as you had made it, of a private Secretary. Thus Sir I have been placed between two Fires. I have endeavored to serve you; If I have fail’d in it, the Fail ure has arisen from Circimstances that I could not alter. “Whenever the Account may be passed, the Money will be paid to you & not to Mr. Adams. It is true the Comptroller & Auditor require Mr. Adams Account, & your Certifi cate of the Time of Service, in Order to pass the Account. But whenever the Amount due may be certified to the Board, they will issue their Warrant agreeably to the Resolve of the 22d July [1785], which says that you shall be allowed the necessary Expences &c.... “I am persuaded, Sir, that you do not mean to derive any Benefit to yourself from this Allowance & that your Inclination to serve Mr. Adams in this Matter proceeds from the purest Motives. As I sincerely Wish whenever it is in my Power to render him all the ser vices I am capable of, so in this Instance, I only hope that you will candidly examine the Facts, and I am sure you will then aquit me of any supposed Inconsistency or Misrepre sentation & of any Want of Disposition either to serve you or him.” Samuel Osgood to Francis Dana, January 8, 1786, Osgood Papers, NHi.
