528 October 27, 1787 you by the baron there is a paragraph wherein he says that “upon the Arrival of this illustrious stranger at York town, Congress ordered a committee consisting of Mr Witherspoon, Mr McKean, Mr F L Lee and Mr Henry to wait upon & confer with him to pay the necessary compliments on his appearance in America And to learn explicitly his expectations from Congress" and then proceeds to say “the committee were directed to deliver him the substance of their conference in writing to be transmitted for your excellency’s information”—& that all he “received or knew on this head will be seen in an enclosed paper marked Committee’s conference with Baron Steuben to which he begs leave to refer your Excellency.” 3 As it is expected that this paper will throw light on the subject and remove all doubts, I have to request the favour of you to send me a copy of it to be communicated to Congress. 4 I embrace the present occasion to assure you that I am with the most sincere esteem & respect, Sir, Your most obedt & most humble servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 For this October 25 order, see JCC, 33:704. 2 See these Letters, 9:133-35, especially note 3. 8 Ibid., pp. 133-34. 4 For Washington’s November 10 reply to Thomson and related documents, see PCC, item 19, 5:581-85; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 29:307-9. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir New York Octr. 28. 1787. I have reed, and acknowledge with great pleasure your favor of the 8th instt. 1 The remarks which you make on the Act of the Convention appear to me to be in general extremely well founded. Your criticism on the clause exempting vessels bound to or from a State from being obliged to enter &c in another is particularly so. This provision was dictated by the jealousy of some particular States, and was inserted pretty late in the Session. 2 The object of it was what you conjecture. The expression is certainly not accurate. Is not a religious test as far as it is necessary, or would operate, involved in the oath itself? If the per son swearing believes in the supreme Being who is invoked, and in the penal consequences of offending him, either in this or a future world or both, he will be under the same restraint from perjury as if he had previously subscribed a test requiring this belief. If the person in ques tion be an unbeliever in these points and would notwithstanding take the oath, a previous test could have no effect. He would subscribe it as he would take the oath, without any principle that could be affected by either.
