October 30, 1787 531 derstand that I do it with not more confidence in your goodness than with the sincerest desire that it may be disregarded if it cannot be ful filled with the most perfect conveniency. With sentiments of the most perfect esteem & the most Affecte. re gard, I remain Dear sir, Your Obedt. freind & hble servt., Js. Madison Jr. [PS.] The British Packet has arrived but I do not learn that any news comes by her. Her passage has been a tedious one. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 10:225-26. 1 See ibid., pp. 203-4. 2 John Dawson, for whose October 19 letter see ibid., p. 198. 3 Gov. John Hancock’s October 17 speech before the General Court had appeared in the Boston Gazette of October 22 and in the Boston Independent Chronicle of October 25. 4 That is, the character of Charles Pinckney. See Madison to Washington, October 14, note 2. Nicholas Gilman to John Langdon Dear Sir New York October 30th 1787 Having nothing interesting to communicate this serves only to ac company the newspaper. We have no dispatches by the last packet— but the paper Account of the ardent complexion of affairs in Europe is so correspondent to the last official advices from that Country that I am induced to believe it a tolerable state of facts and send it for your amusement. Should there be a War in Europe it would be peculiarly unfortunate for us not to have an efficient Government by which we might be en abled to avail ourselves of the advantages that would open to us. It seems as tho. nothing but a consideration of the wretched state of the finances of France and England now smothers the flame and should the report of Cornwallace’s having sunk the french Vessel in Calcutta prove true; there is some reason to believe it will soon burst forth. Be these things as they may I pray GOD to give us a further respite with Wisdom to improve the present Glorious opportunity to become great and happy. With the most sincere Respect & Esteem, I am, Dear sir, Your most Obedient & Most Humble servant, N. Gilman RC (NhHi: Langdon-Elwyn Family Papers).
