NOVEMBER 5, 1787 541 Charles Thomson to the States Sir Office of Secretary of Congress. Novr. 4th. 1787. The fifth of the Articles of Confederation and perpetual Union pro vides, that for the more convenient management of the general Inter est of the United States, Delegates shall be annually appointed in such manner as the Legislature of each State shall direct to meet in Con gress on the first Monday in November in every Year. The federal Year now drawing to a close, and few Delegates appearing to take their seats on Monday next, The Congress previous to their rising have commanded me to inform Your Excellency, that the present critical situation of public Affairs requires the immediate Assembling of the States in Congress, and that it is their earnest desire that Your Excel lency would urge the attendance of the Delegates for Your State with all possible dispatch. 1 In executing this command, I have the honor to be, with the greatest respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient & Most humble servant, Cha Thomson RC (CtY: Knollenberg Collection). In the hand of Roger Alden and signed by Thom son. Addressed: “His Excellency The President.” This was undoubtedly a circular letter to all the states although only this otherwise unidentified copy has been found. 1 Congress last convened a quorum on October 27. The new federal Congress was to convene on Monday, November 5, but only 5 delegates from three states attended, with South Carolina and Georgia alone represented. See JCC, 33:714-15. Charles Thomson to Thomas FitzSimons Dear Sir New York 5 Novr 1787 I have received your favour of the 1st and am sorry I cannot send you the Sea letters you write for, as it requires an Order of Congress to issue them and there is not at present a sufficient number of States as sembled to pass such order. As soon as seven States meet I will pro cure & send you the usual Sea letters but I am much afraid they will not come in time to answer your purpose. 1 With much respect, I am, Dear Sir, Your obed. humble Servt, Cha Thomson RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 See Thomson to FitzSimons, February 3, 1788.
