November 11, 1787 553 3 For Adams’ “book,” A Defence of the Constitutions. . see James Madison to Thomas Jefferson, June 6, note 3. 4 That is, Dutch minister Pieter Johan van Berckel. 5 Carrington is referring to settlement of the Mississippi question. 6 For this May 7 ordinance, see JCC, 32:262-66. 7 According to his letter of December 30 to “Anthony Singleton, Esqr. at the Treasury board in Richmond,” Grayson claimed service in Congress from March 2, 1787, until he left New York on November 20, plus travel time to December 17, “when I got home to Dumfries.” Continental Congress Papers, Vi. 8 See the preceding entry, note 3. Edward Carrington to William Short My dear Sir New York Nov. 11. 1787 Mine of yesterday to Mr. Jefferson inclosing sundry news papers contained the best information I was then possessed of respecting the new plan of Government, but I am this morning informed that Mr. E. Gerry one of the deputies from Massachusetts in the late Grand Con vention, & who refused to sign the project, has submitted his objec tions to the legislature of his State in such terms as to work some probable mischief, what will be the extent is not known, but the cir cumstance occasions alarm to the Friends of the measure 1 —as my views are not to give to Mr. Jefferson & yourself my own wishes upon this business, but the best possible information how it is likely to be re ceived in the States, I think it essential that this event be communi cated with the intilligence that my other letters contain. You will therefore be good enough to give Mr. Jefferson a sight of this letter. The Chevalier Jones has met with inconvenience here from his old Friend Landais—who persists in his endeavour to dishonor him, but wanting the necessary boldness to face him, he has resorted to fals- hood for the accomplishment of his views—he circulated one day in the Coffee House that he had Spit in the Chevaliers face with such confidence that it was believed for several days before (the Chevalier) heard of it—this however has been so well contradicted as to remove every bad effect from the liberal minded—the Chevalier will explain the whole to you and it will be enough for me to say that he cannot give it a fairer appearance than it really bears here. The Vessel is about to sail & I cannot be more full. Yr. sincerely, Ed. Carrington P.S. The inclosed paper contains Gerry’s objections. RC (PHi: Dreer Members of Congress Collection). 1 For Elbridge Gerry’s October 18 letter to the Massachusetts General Court which had been read in the Senate on October 31 and the House on November 2 and pub lished in the Massachusetts Centinel on the 3rd, see Doc. Hist, of Ratify 13:548-50. The let-
