554 November 11, 1787 ter was reprinted in the next two months in over forty newspapers from New Hamp shire to Georgia. See also the point-by-point rebuttal to Gerry’s objections prepared by Nathaniel Gorham and Rufus King in ibid., pp. 550-54. Although their response was never published, Gerry’s letter was criticized by a half dozen newspaper essayists, among them “Landholder” (Oliver Ellsworth), for whom see ibid., 14:231-35, 334-39, 15:75-79. James White to Richard Caswell Sir, New-York 13th. Novr. 1787 Having reed, the proceeds of your warrant on the treasury for part of my salary during my service in congress for the year now commenc ing; I thought it an attention to the duty to give an early attendance: accordingly, I was here by the expiration of the late federal year. Perhaps it may be proper to mention to your Excellency, that as no official information has been given to congress, by our state, of what appointment she has made in her delegation for this year; the secre tary urges me to request that the necessary credentials be transmitted by the first convenient opportunity. 1 As yet no Congress has been formed; So Carolina alone being present. 2 While I am writing to your Excellency at a time that all minds, & all conversations are turned towards the interesting question of changing the federal system it may be expected from every one who is honored with the public confidence to shew some attention to that subject. But the gentlemen of the late delegation are so lately returned, as are also those who assisted at the convention, that I conceive it unnecessary to be very particular. Yet, as those who have been the most conversant with the subject appear to me to be the most convinced of the neces sity of an efficient federal government; I feel myself disposed to re mark, that “no system could be framed which a spirit of doubt, & jeal ousy, might not conceive to be fraught with danger: that this over-cautious temper may be pushed to excess, I think I may be ex cused if I cite our present confederation in evidence.” I must in can dor confess, that I have regretted that the proposed constit[u]tion was not more explicit with respect to several essentials: but the great clamor is, that no express provision is made for the tryal by jury, and liberty of the press; things so interwoven with our political, or legal ideas, that I conceive the sacred immutability of these rights to be such, as never to have occurred as questionable objects to the conven tion. And can it indeed be supposed, that three distinct branches, originating from, & returning to the people, will combine to invade these inviolable first principles? Or would they expect to do it with im-
