November 17, 1787 555 punity? The apprehension wears too pusilanimous a complexion. Whatever may be our wish in theory, we find in practice, by our own example, that states in confederacy, like individuals in society, must part with some of their privileges, for the preservation of the rest. In proof of which, it cannot be denied that, for want of attention to, or knowledge of that maxim, these states are now tottering on the brink of anarchy. Waiting your Excellency’s commands, I am your respectful servt., James White RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Endorsed: “Reed. 26 Nov. R.C. Answd 30 Novr.” 1 For White’s credentials, which were recorded by Secretary Charles Thomson when the new Congress finally achieved a quorum January 21, 1788, see JCC, 34:7. 2 According to Secretary Thomson’s journals, Georgia was also represented at this time./CC, 33:715-16. James White to James Hogg Siri New-York 17th. Novr. 1787 I applyed to the secretary of Congress, respecting Mr. Burkes atten dance, 2 according to your request. He referred me to the journals, &, indeed, turned to them himself as being familiar in the different pas sages therein. He marked the dates on a bit of paper; & I have sent it to you as he wrote it. I mentioned a certificate thereof, in form, to him; but he declined it, alleging the evidence of the printed journal was sufficient. Any further commands you may have, while I am here, I shall with much pleasure attend to. By way of news; it is said the prussians are likely to meet with some work in reinstating the stadholder; as a body of french troops are on their way to support the patriotic party. If it is any wise interesting to you to hear; we expect a french minis ter will be added to the consul of that nation: accordingly, a count de Motier will shortly come over. 3 I am, with much esteem &Ca, James White RC (NcU: Hogg Papers). 'James Hogg has been identified in these letters, 2:249n. 2 That is, Thomas Burke, late North Carolina governor and delegate to Congress, 1777-81. 3 That is, the comte de Moustier, for whom see James Madison to Ambrose Madison, November 8, note 2.
