556 November 18, 1787 James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear friend N. York, Novr. 18. 1787. I returned hither yesterday from Philada. to which place I had pro ceeded under arrangements for either going on to Virginia, or com ing back as I might there decide. Your very affectionate favor of the 23d Ult. 1 found me in Philada. after travelling to N. York, and I should have answered it before my return, had any matters for com munication occurred worth the expence of postage. I did not make any observations on the scheme mentioned in your letter from Bolling-Green, 2 because it had an object which I thought it unadvis- able to pursue; because I conceived that my opinion had been fully made known on the subject, and I wished not unnecessarily to repeat or dwell on points, on which our ideas do not accord; and because I considered that part of your letter merely as a friendly communica tion, and a pleasing pledge of your confidence, and not as a subject on which my ideas were wished. So much indeed was this the case, that at the time of answering that letter, I had not considered the ex pedient, with sufficient accuracy, as a means of attaining the end pro posed, to justify any opinion or remarks touching its fitness. The diffi culty which struck me on a subsequent attention to it, and which seemed insuperable was that several Legislatures would necessarily have provided for a Convention, and even adjourned before amenda tory propositions from Virginia could be transmitted. I have not since my arrival collected any additional information concerning the progress of the federal Constitution. I discovered no evidence on my journey through N. Jersey, that any opposition what ever would be made in that State. The Convention of Pennsylvania is to meet on Tuesday next. The members returned I was told by several persons, reduced the adoption of the plan in that State to absolute certainty and by a greater majority than the most sanguine advocates had calculated. One of the Counties which had been set down by all on the list of opposition had elected deputies of known attachment to the Constitution. I inclose herewith sundry letters which came by the French packet just arrived. The letter for Col. N. Lewis, Mr. Jefferson tells me is of great consequence. 3 You will have frequent opportunities during the Assembly, of giving it a safe conveyance. I have myself no public infor mation by the packet, and have not yet learnt that any of moment has been received at the office of Foreign Affairs. The intelligence passing in conversation is that the Porte has declared war agst. Russia, that notwithstanding the advance of the Prussian troops into Holland, it is not certain that an accomodation may not prevent actual hostilities, and that in general it remains doubtful whether war or peace in the Western parts of Europe is to result from the present crisis of Affairs.
