November 18, 1787 557 A great change has taken place again in the French Ministry. The Count de la Luzerne, brother of the Chevalier, succeeds the Marshal de Castries in the department of Marine. The provincial Assemblies throughout are established, and some of them have already met. The Marquis 4 is a leading member in that of Auvergne. The Parliament is returned to Paris, and it is supposed that the Court will not enforce ei ther the Stamp duty or the territorial impost. The Count de Moutier is appointed Minister to the U. States and may shortly be expected. I do not find that a single State is represented except Virginia, and it seems very uncertain when a Congress will be made. There are indi vidual members present from several States; and the attendance of this & the neighbouring States, may I suppose be obtained when it will produce a quorum. With the most sincere & invariable affection, I re main my dear friend Yrs., Js Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 10:252-53. 1 For Randolph’s letter of October 29, which he had misdated the 23rd, see ibid., pp. 229-31. 2 For this September 30 letter, see ibid., pp. 181-82. 3 Jefferson’s September 17 letter to Nicholas Lewis is in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 12:134-36. 4 At a later time Madison added “de lafayette.” James Madison to George Washington Dear Sir New York Novr. 18. 1787. Your favor of the 5th instant 1 found me in Philada. whither I had proceeded, under arrangements for proceeding to Virginia or return ing to this place, as I might there decide. I did not acknowledge it in Philada. because I had nothing to communicate, which you would not receive more fully and correctly from the Mr. Morris’s who were set ting out for Virginia. 2 All my informations from Richmond concur in representing the en thusiasm in favor of the new Constitution as subsiding, and giving place to a spirit of criticism. I was fearful of such an event from the in fluence and co-operation of some of the adversaries. I do not learn however that the cause has lost its majority in the Legislature, and still less among the people at large. I have nothing to add to the information heretofore given concern ing the progress of the Constitution in other States. Mr. Gerry has pre sented his objections to the Legislature in a letter addressed to them, and signified his readiness if desired to give the particular reasons on which they were founded. The Legislature it seems decline the expla nation, either from a supposition that they have nothing further to do in the business, having handed it over to the Convention; or from an
