November 20, 1787 561 may from time to time, seem best for reallizing the proceeds of the collections, on the Acct, of the public. But notwithstanding my perfect conviction that this will be the most advantageous mode of proceed ing in the business, yet I wish to have it in some measure sanctioned by the advice or approbation of your honorable Board, and should you agree with me in opinion you will very much oblige me, by signify ing it in writing. For your better information as to the present State of the paper money I do myself the honor to inclose Mr. MCalls letter upon the subject dated as late as 19th Ult. 3 He will be left at liberty to vary his conduct with any change of circumstance. I have honor to be, Gentlemen, your Most Obedient Servt., Ed. Carrington. Late D QMr. RC (Donaldson, Lufkin &Jenrette, New York, N.Y., 1975). 1 That is, Robert Morris, then superintendent of finance, and Col. Timothy Picker ing, quartermaster general of the Continental Army. Carrington had been deputy quar termaster general on Nathanael Greene’s staff in the southern department. 2 Hext McCall had also been appointed South Carolina Register in Chancery on May 16, 1783. See Journals of the Privy Council, 1783-1789, ed. by Adele Stanton Edwards (Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 1971), p. 35. 3 Not in PCC. Nicholas Gilman to William Irvine Dear Sir New York November 20th 1787 I am honor’d with your obliging favor of the 9th instant and am very happy to hear there is so great a probability of the adoption of the new Constitution in your State. The Legislature of New Hamp shire are called together on the occasion and I believe there is no rea son to doubt of its being adopted in that State—it will go a little harder in Massachusetts but will finally succeed. I have seen a list of the Members chosen for the Convention in Connecticut and there ap pears to be a very large majority 7 who are known to be in favor of the new p[lan?]. Of Congress there is present Massachusetts, New Jersey, Virginia and South Carolina and from New Hampre. your humble servant— from North Carolina Mr. White and from Georgia Mr. Baldwin. 1 I ex pect a Colleague in a few days. Dr Johnson informs me that delegates of Connecticutt will attend so that if Pennsylvania comes on we may have a Congress at once. 2 I am very happy to hear you are in the dele gation and promise myself the pleasure of seeing you soon in New York, in the mean time and at all times I am with great Respect and Esteem, Dear sir, Your Most Obedient and Humble servant, N. Gilman
