November 26, 1787 565 James Madison to Archibald Stuart Dear Sir N. York. Now. 25. [17] 87. I have reed, your favor of the 9th instant and thank you for its Com munications. 1 I am sorry that I have none to make in return, no oc currences of moment having arrived since my last. The Pennsylvania Convention was to meet on Tuesday last, but I have heard nothing from that quarter. The election in Connecticut is over and the Re turns it is said by those who the members & their characters, reduce the adoption of the Constitution in that State, to certainty. We have no Congress yet. Col. Carringt[on] tells me he has sent you the papers you request up to the date of his letter. I add those which have since appeared. With much esteem & regd. I remain Yr. Obedt. servt., Js. Madisonjr. RC (PWacD: Feinstone Collection). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 10:270-71. 1 See ibid., pp. 245-46. Edward Carrington to Alexander Donald My dear Sir, 1 New York Nov. 26. 1787 I am to acknowledge the receipt of the letter you did me the honor to write from Philadelphia—also that from Richmond inclosing two to be sent by the English packet. These were put into the mail, and I sup pose are by this time nearly at their ports of destination. I am happy to find you have safely arrived in Richmond after the various hazards you encountered while in, & after you left, N. York—that near Princeton must have been alarming as well as mortifying. I know of nothing that so disconcerts a young man, as to be brought up by the heels in cut ting a Caper—in this I have no direct allusion to the catastrophe near Princeton, but it directly applies to your good Freind Sir Jno. Temple, who upon that very day you left this City, and a few minutes after his interview with you at No. 19 Maiden lane was laid at full length upon the ground, in the Act of walking in the Train of the Governor, when he was reviewing the Troops. I would not mention this circumstance to any but a particular freind of the Baronets for the world—you will doubtless sympathize with him. Your Freinds in N. York often enquire after you with great good ness. Mrs. Colden, Miss Van Berkel and several others on whose minds you have left, at least, favorable impressions frequently regret your de parture—but to pass from great things to small, by the last intelli gence from Europe we have reason to suspect that the Patriots in Hol-
