566 November 26, 1787 land are in a bad way. The Princess of Orange has done more service to her husband than it is usual for married men to experience, the in terruption given her in her passage to the Hague sometime ago, has so incensed her Brother the King of Prussia, as to bring him into more rapid & vigorous movements agst. the Patriots than he probably would have made. The duke of Brunswic at the head of 30,000 Prus sian Troops has invaded the United Netherlands and is master of al most every place that was in a posture of opposition to the Stadtholder—indeed Amsterdam stands alone, & that City is saved, for the present, only by the inundation of the surrounding Country. France cannot assist the Patriotic Party. Terminate this business how it will, there must still be an extensive & bloody Continental War—the Porte has declared War against Russia, and as the powers now stand arranged it is likely that the flame will communicate itself throughout. The Constitution proposed for the Government of the United States is going on Well in the Eastern States, and as far as the Middle states have acted at all, their conduct is favorable. Present me to our Amiable Freind Mrs. Brent and all our other ac quaintances, and believe me to be with great regard, Your sincere freind & Humble servt., Ed. Carrington RC (NN: Stauffer Collection). 1 Alexander Donald, an associate of the London mercantile firm of (Robert) Burton & Donald, was a Richmond tobacco and wheat merchant and agent for Robert Morris in fulfilling his contract with the French Farmers General. He had become a Virginia citizen and an intimate of Thomas Jefferson and other Virginians before the war, but had apparently returned to Great Britain and did not resume his American career until 1786-87. In reestablishing his Virgina connections, Donald visited Washington at Mount Vernon in early October 1787 and observed that “I never saw him so keen for any thing in my life as he is for the adoption of the new Form of Government.” See Jef ferson, Papers (Boyd), 11:193-94, 632-33, 12:132-34, 344-48; and Washington, Diaries (Jackson &Twohig), 4:103, 5:190. Samuel A. Otis to James Warren Dear Sir 1 New York 27 Novr. 1787 You will about this period agreeably to my promise, expect a letter, and as I have engaged also to write Sister Warren, being under the op erations of a very unfertile brain, I must preface by asking your influ ence, to construe my communications to you, so, as that they may be considered as made to you both, Being in the full perswasion that any thing worthy the attention of either, may with propriety be addressed to both. Having never before been in N York your first enquiry may be, how I like the City; To which I reply that I think the inhabitants of one great City, pretty much like those of another, The polished people
