November 27, 1787 567 have the same views of amusement & ostentation everywhere, The Commercial people the same eager grasp at property & accumulation, The Inference then is not unatural, that liking Boston, I have no prej udice against N York. Indeed I never have seen the place where, if I had my family with me and they were tollerably happy, I could not make life tollerably agreeable; And I am fully convinced without the pleasure of domestic life, Tis no boon, And changing air & Climate, is only changing misery. But viewing myself from the necessity of my af fairs, an honorable exile, I am resolved to submit without a murmur. I will not however preclude one observation as true as the oracles of re ligion, That I had rather plow up a wholsome subsistence upon the highlands of Milton, if that could be done in Character, than subsist upon all the Luxuries of the South, secluded from my family. But I wont repine. Your next probable question will be how go you on in Congress? To which I reply there is no Congress, Nor like to be before Xmas. New Hamshire Mr. Gilman, Massachusetts is represented, Connecticut have chosen but not here, R Island dont know whether chosen or not, N York dont chuse until the next month, NJersy have no acct of, Pen- silvania have chosen and only one Member G Armstrong present, Maryland No Members here, Virginia represented by Mr. Carrington, and Mr. Maddison, Delaware, N & S Carolina & Georgia not repre sented. Indeed I think some states either from a zeal for New Govern ment, Or indifferent about a longer Confederation upon any plan, voluntarily negle[c]t sending on their Members—but this upon every principle is wrong. If the confederation ceases, puissant as any state may feel itself, I think its independence is at an end. If they prefer the Confederation upon the old, or rather present, plan they certainly ought to keep up their representation, And if they are zealous for the new plan, They ought to send their delegates to prepare the way, & I had like to have said make the path straight before it. But I have no expectation of a speedy adoption of the New System. Newhamshr I can give no acct of, Massachusetts & R Island No, Connecticut Yea, N York No, N Jersy doubt, Pensilvania & Delaware Yea, Maryland & Virginia No, No & So Carolina Yea, Georgia No, at least these are my probable conjectures upon each state from present appearances. Virginia have not even called a Convention until May, And will the United states be content with an absolute suspension of Government until after May? My present opinion is that the executives of such governments as are represented, should remonstrate where the legislatures are not set ting. For no man with a spark of national pride, Sure no man who is ostensible in the public line, but must feel mortified at the derang- ment of our public affairs. Seing your Name anounced as the Land Officer of the western Ter ritory 2 led me to make some conversation with Govr Clinton upon the
