568 November 27, 1787 subject, Who has been upon the Ground. He thinks we did wrong in not sending Commissioners with the Governers of the two States at the head of the Commission. His reasons are that Interested people have endeavored to impress the Indians with unfavorable Ideas of the Bostonians including N Englanders under that Idea, That our Govr &c going into treaty would have effaced these Ideas, And the Two Ex ecutives appearing in Concert would have looked as if they viewed the business in a very important point of light, And would have indued Brant & the Leessees as well as the Indians that those leases were of no avail, Whereas now the Combination will grow more powerful by delay, and give ultimately great charge & trouble. He thinks also it will be our best pollicy to sell only a part at present, as the Indians will sell a part for a moderate compensation but will be alarmed, & Con firmed in their Jealousies if an attempt be made to purchase the whole. By the way, it was reported when I was in Boston that N York was selling @ 3/ facilities inclusive of Indian claims, But this is not true, but that the Yorkers sold their lands at least what they have sold, for three shillings an acre, after they had extinguished the Claims is the fact. I suspect this report sprang from Browne & associates. Upon the whole I find should you proceed to sell withot extinguishing the Indian Claims, the purchasers under that incumbrance would be likely to cheat the Indians, And the York Governmt are or pretend to be justly alarmed least the angry Savage should revenge upon their frontiers the loss of his own acres. These observations may all be the result of N York policy, for they are by no means deficient in matters of land, You will however give them what attention they merit. I have conversed only partially with the Tresury Board upon your accts, 3 And think however no time is lost, And rely upon my attention as oppy offers. The expectation here is of a war between France & England, but their immense debt & deranged finances make me doubtful, nor do I think great advantages will result to America should it take place. Love to sister & the family. Conclude yrs Sam A Otis [PS.] Pray write me all the news, the Speculations upon important in cidents, Upon Constitution &c but above all your own reasonings upon things as they occur. RC (MHi: Mercy Warren Papers). Addressed: “The Honorable James Warren Esqr, Mil- ton.” 1 Warren, who was married to Otis’ sister Mercy, was at this time speaker of the Mas sachusetts House of Representatives. 2 The November 19 issue of Benjamin Edes’ Boston Gazette announced that Warren had been “appointed Commissioner for disposing of the Western lands of this Com- inonwealth.” 8 Warren’s memorial “respecting the settlement of his accounts with the Commercial Committee” had originally been referred to a committee December 8, 1784, which rec-
