570 November 29, 1787 such measures as will free us from embarrassment, & our Country from disgrace. We cannot but feel mortif[i]ed at the Gentlemen from the Southward receiving six dollars the day, and quarterly remittance in Specie, whilst we are soliciting only sufficient to enable us to pay our board. We trust that solicitation will not be in vain. Relying upon your speedy permission to draw for one hundred pounds each, At least for the £50 each, directed to borrow, We are with great esteem, Your most huml Sevts, Sam. A. Otis George Thatcher RC (PHC: Roberts Autograph Collection). Addressed: “Alexander Hodgdon Esqr, Trea surer of The Commonwealth Masstts, Boston.” Written by Samuel A. Otis and signed by Otis and George Thatcher. James Madison to George Washington Dear Sir N. York Novr. 20. [30] 1787. 1 My last inclosed the seven first numbers of the paper of which I gave you some account.I now add the seven following numbers, which close the first branch of the subject, the importance of the Union. The succeeding papers shall be forwarded from time to time as they come out. The latest authentic information from Europe, places the Dutch in a wretched situation. The patriots will probably depend in the event on external politics for the degree of security and power that may be left them. The Turks & Russians have begun a war in that quarter. And a general one is not improbable. I have heard nothing of consequence lately concerning the progress of the New Constitution. The Pennsylvania Convention has probably by this time come to a decision; but it is not known here. Not more than two or three States are yet convened. The prospect of a quorum during the winter continues precarious. With every sentiment of respect & attachment I remain, Dear Sir, Yr. Affect, humble servt., Js- Madison Jr RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 10:283-84. 1 Although Madison clearly wrote “Novr. 20,” internal evidence indicates that it was written on the 30th: the last of “the seven following numbers” of The Federalist essays which he enclosed (nos. 8-14) did not appear in the New-York Packet until November 30; and the Pennsylvania Convention mentioned in the third paragraph had not convened until November 21 and could not therefore have “come to a decision.” 2 See Madison to Washington, November 18, note 4.
