December 2, 1787 571 Dyre Kearny to Charles Thomson Sir, Dover. December 1st. 1787. Under the Idea that from the present peculiar State of the Union, a Congress will be assembled this Year Sooner than usual, I have the honor of addressing You to request information of what States are now attendant at New York. I find by the Papers that most of the States have proceeded to the respective Appointments of their Delegates as usual. Among others Our Legislature in the early part of last Month appointed Mr. Mitchell, Mr. Grantham and myself. 1 As tis neither my Wish nor intention to proceed to New York till there be either a Congress formed or a probability of Speedy One Upon Arrival of our State, I have to request You would notify Me when Our Attendance may become necessary. A Line in immediate answer on this Subject, will much Gratify Me. You will be good enough to address to Me at Dover—to the Care of Jacob Broom Esqr. Wilm ington who will forward it to Me. I have the honor to be, With the highest respect, Your Most Obedt Serv, Dyre Kearny RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). 1 Kearny, Nathaniel Mitchell, and Isaac Grantham were elected Delaware delegates to Congress on November 10; and Kearny and Mitchell were in attendance when Congress finally convened a quorum on January 21, 1788. See JCC, 34:1, 5. Grantham never at tended Congress. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear friend New York Deer. 2d. 1787. The period since my last 1 has been so unfruitful of occurrences that I have not thought it worth while to trouble you with a letter and I do it now more to prevent too long a chasm, than for the sake of any in teresting communication. Our public letter gave you the latest au thentic information from Europe. 2 A general war seems not improba ble; a war between the Turks & Russians has actually commenced. The enterprising movements of the Prussian troops have disconcerted the patriotic party & their supporters, and it seems as if the Stadtholder would gain a compleat triumph. What effect this may have on the Government of that Country I can not undertake to foretell. I have never been inclined to think that compleat success to the views of ei ther party would be favorable to the people. If the Stadtholdership
