512 December 2, 1787 were abolished, the Government unless further changes concurred, would be a simple aristocracy. Should the patriots as they call them selves be excluded from the Govt, the Stadtholder would be an abso lute Monarch. Whilst both continue they check each other, which is absolutely necessary as the people have no check on either. The con sequence of the people arises from the competitions of the two for their favor. In general the lower order have been partizans of the Stadtholder. They are so it is said in the present contest. A British packet arrived here a few days ago but does not bring later information than the last one from France. She has had a long voyage and called in at Halifax, a circumstance which some connect with the probability of a war. . We have not more than two or three States as yet attending. It is alto gether conjectural when the deficiency of a quorum will be made up. No recent indications of the views of the States as to the Constitu tion have come to my knowledge. The elections in Connecticut are over and as far as the returns are known, a large majority are friendly to it. Doer. Johnson says, it will be pretty certainly adopted; but there will be opposition. The power of taxing any thing but imports appears to be the most popular topic among the adversaries. The Convention of Pennsylvania is sitting. The result there will not reach you first through my hands. The divisions on preparatory questions, as they are published in the Newspapers, shew that the party in favor of the Con stitution have 44 or 45 vs. 22 or 24 or thereabouts. 3 The inclosed paper contains two numbers of the Federalist. 4 This paper was begun about three weeks ago, and proposes to go through the subject. I have not been able to collect all the numbers, since my return from Philada. or I would have sent them to you. I have been the less anxious as I understand the Printer means to make a pam phlet of them, when I can give them to you in a more convenient form. You will probably discover marks of different {pens). 5 I {am not at liberty) to {give you any) other (key) than that I {am in myself for a few numbers) & that {one besides myself) was a {member) of {the Con vention) 6 I wish you all happiness and remain my dear Sir, Yr. affecte. friend, > Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Madison papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 10:289-90. 1 That is, his letter of November 18. 2 See Virginia Delegates to Randolph, November 22. 3 On November 26 Thomas McKean had moved that the convention “now proceed to Consider the Constitution referred to their consideration, by articles.” Robert Whitehill offered instead a substitute motion “that this Convention resolve itself into a committee of the whole for the purpose of investigating and considering the aforesaid Constitu tion” which was defeated by a vote of 44 to 24. See Doc. Hist. ofRatif., 2:364-65 4 It is not known which “two numbers” Madison enclosed; nos. 1-15 had been pub lished from October 27 through December 1. See ibid., 14:324. 5 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in cipher. 6 That is, Alexander Hamilton. See Madison to Washington, November 18, note 4.
