December 9, 1787 575 may be produced by the united influence & exertions of Mr. Henry, Mr. Mason, & the Governor with some pretty able auxiliaries, is uncer tain. My information leads me to suppose there must be three parties in Virginia. The first for adopting without attempting Amendments. This includes Genl. W and the other deputies who signed the Constitution, Mr. Pendleton—(Mr. Marshal I believe)—Mr. Nicholas—Mr. Corbin, Mr. Zachy. Johnson, Col. Innis, (Mr. B. Ran dolph as I understand) Mr. Harvey, Mr. Gabi. Jones, Doer. Jones—&c &c. At the head of the 2d party which urges amendments are the Govr. & Mr. Mason. These do not object to the substance of the Gov- ernt. but contend for a few additional Guards in favor of the Rights of the States and of the people. I am not able to enumerate the charac ters which fall in with their ideas, as distinguished from those of a third Class, at the head of which is Mr. Henry. This class concurs at present with the patrons of Amendments, but will probably contend for such as strike at the essence of the System, and must lead to an ad herence to the principle of the existing Confederation, which most thinking men are convinced is a visionary one, or to a partition of the Union into several Confederacies. Mr. Harrison the late Govr. is with Mr. Henry. So are a number of others. The General & Admiralty Courts with most of the Bar, oppose the Constitution, but on what par ticular grounds I am unable to say. Genl. Nelson, Mr. Jno. Page, Col. Bland, &c. are also opponents, but on what principle and to what ex tent, I am equally at a loss to say. In general I must note, that I speak with respect to many of these names, from information that may not be accurate, and merely as I should do in a free and confidential con versation with you. I have not heard Mr. Wythe’s sentiments on the subject. Doer. McClurg the other absent deputy, is a very strenuous de fender of the New Government. Mr. Henry is the great adversary who will render the event precarious. He is I find with his usual address, working up every possible interest, into a spirit of opposition. It is wor thy of remark that whilst in Virga, and some of the other States in the middle & Southern Districts, the men of intelligence, patriotism, property, and independent circumstances, are thus divided; all of this description, with a few exceptions, in the Eastern States, & most of the Middle States, are zealousy attached to the proposed Constitution. In N. England, the men of letters, the principal Off[i]cers of Govt., the Judges & Lawyers, the Clergy, and men of property, furnish only here and there an adversary. It is not less worthy of remark that in Virginia where the mass of the people have been so much accustomed to be guided by their rulers on all new and intricate questions, they should on the present which certainly surpasses the judgment of the greater part of them, not only go before, but contrary to, their most popular leaders. And the phenomenon is the more wonderful, as a popular ground is taken by all the adversaries to the new Constitution. Perhaps
