576 December 9, 1787 the solution in both these cases, would not be very difficult; but it would lead to observations too diffusive; and to you unnecessary. I will barely observe that the case in Virga, seems to prove that the body of sober & steady people, even of the lower order, are tired of the vicici- tudes, injustice and follies which have so much characterised public measures, and are impatient for some change which promises stability & repose. The proceedings of the present assembly are more likely to cherish than remove this disposition. I find Mr. Henry has carried a Resolution for prohibiting the importation of Rum, brandy, and other ardent spirits; and if I am not misinformed all manufactured leather, hats and sundry other articles are included in the prohibition.^ Enor mous duties at least are likely to take place on the last & many other articles. A project of this sort without the concurrence of the other States, is little short of madness. With such concurrence, it is not prac ticable without resorting to expedients equally noxious to liberty and ceconomy. The consequences of the experiment in a single State, as unprepared for manufactures as Virginia may easily be preconceived. The Revised Code will not be resumed. Mr. Henry is an inveterate ad versary to it. Col. Mason made a regular and powerful attack on the Port Bill; but was left in a very small minority. I found at the last Ses sion that that regulation was not to be shaken; though it certainly owes it success less to its principal merits, than to collateral & casual considerations. The popular ideas are that by favoring the collection of duties on imports it saves the solid property from direct taxes; and that it injures G. Britain by lessening the advantage she has over other Nations, in the trade of Virginia. We have no certain information from the three Southern States concerning the temper relative to the New Government. It is in gen eral favorable according to the vague accounts we have. Opposition however will be made in each. Mr. Wiley Jones, and Governour Caswell have been named as Opponents in N. Carolina. So few particulars have come to hand concerning the State of things in Georgia that I have nothing to add on that subject, to the contents of my last, by Commodore Jones. We have two or three States only yet met for Congs. As many more can be called in when their attendance will make a quorum. It contin ues to be problematical, whether the interregnum will not be spun out through the winter. We remain in great uncertainty here with regard to a war in Eu rope. Reports and suspicions are strongly on the side of one. Such an event may be considered in various relations to this Country. It is pretty certain I think that if the present lax State of our General Gov-
