December II, 1787 579 has not been possible to take any step with regard to it. No authority equal to the business exists in the recess of Congress; and the Author ity of Congress has been out of existence for some time, and if we are to judge from the present aspect of things, will continue so for some time longer. 1 There seem to be pretty strong symtoms of approaching war on the other side of the Atlantic. Its flames are actually kindled between the Turks and Russians. If the English & French do not follow the exam ple, the forebearance will be more the effect of inability than of disin clination. The fate of the Dutch Patriots is not yet decided here by any authentic communications, but every report and probability is omi nous to their cause. A general war in Europe will open a new scene to this Country: a scene which might be contemplated with pleasure if our humanity could forget the calamities in which it must involve oth ers; and if we were in a condition to maintain the rights and pursue the advantages of Neutrality. I am Dear Sir with the greatest respect and esteem your Obedt. & humble servt, Js. Madison Jr. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 10:315. 1 In his letter of November 26 (ibid., pp. 272-73), Gates had recommended that Maj. Alexander Dromgoole, an Indian trader who had served as Virginia’s emissary to the Cherokee along the Little Tennessee River, be appointed superintendent of Indian af fairs for the southern department. For lack of a quorum the issue was not considered until February 1, 1788, when a letter from a Cherokee chieftain proposing Dromgoole’s appointment was read and referred to the secretary at war to report. Henry Knox rec ommended against Dromgoole’s selection on February 25 on the grounds that his chief object was clearly trade, which violated the prohibition in the ordinance regulating In dian affairs against the participation of Indian superintendents and their deputies in such activity. Knox was directed to assure the Cherokee of Congress’ desire for peace but to explain the reasons that the major could not be appointed. The order was never acted on. See JCC, 32:353-54, 34:10n, 14, 31n, 59-60, 626. See also the following entry; and Burnett, Letters, 8:692. Virginia Delegates to Edmund Randolph Sir, New York Deer. 11. 1787 We have been honoured with your Excellencies favor of the 24th Ult. together with its enclosures. Congress have not yet Assembled nor have we an early prospect of a sufficient number of States upon the floor for business. In the recess of that body, there is no authority in existence for making the ap pointment you request with respect to the Cherokee and other tribes of Indians in the Western parts of Virginia & North Carolina. The In dian Ordinance provides for no more than one Superintendant for all the southern Indians—to this Office Doctor White was appointed by
