December 14, 1787 581 RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Carrington and signed by Carring ton, Brown, Griffin, and Madison. 1 Although his letter of November 24 has not been found, Governor Randolph had requested that the delegates obtain the appointment of a separate superintendent of Indian affairs for Virginia and North Carolina because the present superintendent, James White, was ignoring their problems. He recommended for the position Maj. Alexander Dromgoole, who also had the confidence of the Cherokee Indians. See Madison, Papers (Rutland), 10:270; and the preceding entry. For James White’s official resignation as superintendent, see White to Charles Thomson, January 22, 1788. 2 See Charles Thomson to Certain States, October 27, note 1. James Madison to Archibald Stuart Dear Sir N. York Deer. 14th. 1787. 1 was yesterday favored with yours of the 2d inst. and am particularly obliged by the accuracy and fulness of its communications. 1 The mu tability of the Legislature on great points has been too frequently ex emplified within my own observation, for any fresh instance of it to produce much surprize. The only surprize I feel at the last Steps taken with regard to the New Constitution 2 is that it does not strike the well meaning adversaries themselves with the necessity of some anchor for the fluctuations which threaten shipwreck to our liberty. I am per suaded that the scheme of amendments is pursued by some of its pa trons at least, with the most patriotic & virtuous intentions. But I am equally persuaded that it is pregnant with consequences which they fail to bring into view. The vote of Virga, on that subject, will either dismember the Union, or reduce her to a dilemma as mortifying to her pride, as it will be injurious to her foresight. I verily believe that if the patrons of this scheme, were to enter into an explicit & particular communication with each other, they wd find themselves as much at variance in detail as they are agreed in the general plan of amend ments. Or if they could agree at all it would be only on a few points of very little substance, and which would not comprehend the objections of most weight in other States. It is impossible indeed to trace the progress and tendency of this fond experiment without perceiving dif ficulty and danger in every Stage of it. We have received neither confirmation nor contradiction of the Re ports concerning war between G.B. and France. The Dutch are pros trate before the prussian arms. The follies and misfortunes on the other side of the Atlantic ought to be lessons of wisdom to this side. I fear we shall not derive from them the profit of any sort, which they are calculated to afford us. We have no Congs as yet; nor any increase of the materials for one. If one were formed, it would only perhaps make the nakedness of the federal situation more conspicuous. The contributions to the trea-
