584 December 15, 1787 Cyrus Griffin to Thomas FitzSimons Dear Sir, N. York, December 15th. 1787. I should have written some days ago, but waited a private con veyance which at last has disappointed me. I had great difficulty in geting your little matter adjusted with the Treasury Board, because the promise of payment was to Harison only, and because not a shilling was in hand for continental purposes— however, as being preferable to nothing, You will receive enclosed a warrant upon Thomas Smith for the sum entrusted to my care. 1 I was obliged to accommodate a little affair of my own in the like mode which has occasioned an unexpected inconveniency. For some days past I have been confined with a violent cold and dis agreeable affection of the head—but as nothing very alarming is to be feared I wish my poor little woman to know but little of it. I doubt the family at Mr. Marshall’s will give you and your amiable lady a good deal of Trouble—but as they are the last few months they will ever spend to the northward I hope it may be forgiven—for in deed having but little property of my own and scarcely any thing by my wife, I should not be justifiable in spending that little at a distance from my own country even for the purposes of Religion—yet in the meantime I flatter myself they will ask for any thing that may be want ing, and when the little stock is expended that you were kind enough to take charge of I will endeavor to procure them more. I make free to enclose a letter for your friendly messenger to deliver. There are but four states rep[r]esented in Congress and I see no probability of a majority for weeks to come. Our foreign correspondence contain the strongest reasons why a fixed and efficient government should be organised with all expedition. Be so kind to make my sincere respects to Mrs. Fitzsimons. I am dear sir, with great regard, your most obedient servant, C. Griffin RC (PP: Carson Collection). 1 There is no record of this transaction in PCC. North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina Assembly Gentlemen: 15 December, 1787. We received the commands of the Honourable the General Assem bly last evening 1 to lay before you this morning “The present state and circumstances of the Union,” and altho’ the time limited to us is
