December 15, 1787 585 short, yet we shall endeavor to make a statement as in our opinion may answer the object of your request. The subject is of great latitude, but we have tried to view it in the most interesting point of light. All the resolutions of Congress, with the letters of your Delegates, have been laid before you, 2 and Mr. Hawkins attended at the opening of the session expressly for the purpose of assisting in arranging of them and to throw such further light on them as might serve to ex plain any ambiguities, but they were ordered to be committed without a reading. A narrative of transactions, other than the connecting of these pa pers together, we feel ourselves bound to give, and shall do it accord ingly from notes which we must reserve to ourselves. To describe the present state and circumstances of the Union, we may declare in one word that we are at the Eave of a Bankruptcy and of a total dissolution of Government. Since the close of the War there has not been paid into the General Treasury as much money as was necessary for one year’s interest of the domestic and foreign debt, and Congress have been reduced to the dreadful alternative of borrowing principal to pay interest. Our efforts at home to this end were ineffec tual; abroad where we were not known and where enthusiasm for lib erty enrolled us among the most deserving of mankind, we were more Successful. The deception cannot be much longer kept up and unless something can be done before the close of the ensuing year we must cease to be a United Government. Our friends must give us up, and we shall become a laughing stock to our enemies. The annual requisitions are so partially attended to by the States that our foreign and domestic embarrassments have accumulated be yond the possibility of being retrieved by other means than the punc tual compliance on the part of the States. Congress, in their persever ing desire of doing justice to their Creditors and supporting the Federal Government, have tryed every possible means in their power. The sale of the Western land has gone and will go a great way in dis charge of our domestic debt, but our foreign debt is increasing and the best way of Judging of the possibility of soon discharging of it is by our own exertions in five years. We have made one payment, some thing less than forty thousand dollars, and the Schedule of requisi tions will shew the deficiencies of the States respectively. On the subject of the Treaty, you have every thing necessary to be said in the circular letter accompanying the resolutions of the 13th of April, 3 with which several of the States have complyed. On the settlements of accompts, you have the ordinance of the 13th May, and the subsequent Resolution of the 28th of July, 4 which will wind up the whole expences of the War on principles perfectly equi table. Several of the States are far advanced in their settlement, and we have reason to expect the Commissioner for settling our accompts will very soon give us notice of his attendance.
