586 December 15, 1787 The subject of the Navigation of the Mississippi is of so delicate a nature that we cannot commit it to paper. We are only at liberty to say that it has been seriously agitated, and that it has claimed and we pre sume it will continue to claim the serious attention of your Delegates. We can say in general, the conduct of Spain on this subject is not lib eral, and we presume it would be very different if they thought us a more formidable neighbour. Having mentioned the western lands we must add that Sales already made will Sink near five millions of Dollars of the Principal of the Do mestic debt, and that the States generally, who have ceded Western lands or who claim a share in them, complain pointedly and heavily against North Carolina and Georgia for claiming a part of the lands in the possession of Congress without ceding any part of their claims. To close our remarks, a change of measures for the consolidation of the Union in which is involved our prosperity, felicity, safety and per haps our national existence, is so obvious that the whole of the Union, Rhode Island excepted, have appointed their deputies in Convention for that purpose; the result of their deliberations you have had before you, whether the plan adopted by them is the proper one will depend in the sense of a Convention of Delegates in each State by the people thereof. We have the Honor to be, with great respect, your Hbl. Servts, Ro. Burton Wm. Blount 5 Benjamin Hawkins Reprinted from the journal of the North Carolina General Assembly, N.C. Stale Records, 20:241-43. 1 For this command to “the Delegates of this State now in Town,” see ibid., p. 228. 2 Ibid., pp. 128-30. 3 See Charles Thomson to the States, April 13, 1787. 4 Actually the ordinance of May 7 and resolution of July 23, for which see JCC, 32:262-66, 33:392. 5 Blount also submitted the following petition to the assembly concerning his pay as a delegate to Congress, which was referred to a house committee on December 13 and to a senate committee on December 14. N.C. Slate Records, 20:227, 419. “William Blount late a Delegate in Congress humbly sheweth that a Resolution passed the General Assembly at Hillsborough in the Spring Session of the year 1784 in the fol lowing Words, ‘Resolved that the Governor be and he is hereby authorized, empowered and required to grant Warrants from Time to Time on either of the Treasurers for the Salaries of the Delegates of this State attending in Congress payable in Philadelphia or in this State at the Option of the Delegates.’ “That at the session of 1786 at Fayetteville, ‘The Committee to whom were referred the State of the Representation in Congress made the following Report which was agreed to by both Houses, “‘That having examined the present Situation of the Delegates they find that the Salaries allowed is by no Means adequate to the purpose of enabling them to perform the duty which their Country expects and their appointments require of them. They find that the present salary of a Delegate is sixty four pounds per Month, paid by War-
