December 16, 1787 587 rants on the Treasury which they often find great difficulty in geting the Mony for, owing to the Want of Mony in our Treasury; when they receive it, it does not pass with out the Bounds of the State and for it Specie cannot be obtained under twelve Shillings for a hard dollar or a Deduction of one third from their Monthly Allowance, which re duces it to forty two pounds thirteen Shillings and four pence—A Sum by No Means ade quate to their incidental Expences in the Character they have to support as the Repre sentatives of the Sovereignty of a free and independent State, and We con[c]eive it to be from this Cause that our Representation in Congress has not been so constant nor so full as it ought to have been; nor can we presume that the Public can expect or wish, that any Individual should devote his Time to the Service of the Public and at the same Time be obliged to have recourse to his private fortune for his Support, which has as suredly been the Case with such of our Delegates as have done their duty for these three years past. Your Committee has Leave to state the difference between the Dele gates and the other Officers of Government; the former from the Nature of their Office have their duty to perform in another State where their Expences are great and Noth ing but hard Mony will pass, at a distance from their property, which generally yields less profit from the Absence of the Owner whilst on the Contrary the other Officers of Government perform their duty within the State where the Mony they receive for their Salaries is the only circulating Medium, and also enjoy the Advantage of superintending their own Affairs and few of them are put to any more Expence by the Office they hold than they would have to bear were they without it. Your Committee highly sensible of the Importance of Keeping up a Representation in Congress, as it not only concerns the Interest of this State but of the United States, are therefore of Opinion that the del egates should recive their Salaries in hard Mony to be paid them in New-York or wher ever Congress may sit, in Payments of one Month’s Salary in Advance and in Order that the State may be enabled to persue this Mode of Payment they recommend that his Ex cellency the Governor be authorized and empowered to make a Contract with some person or persons to make the aforesaid Payments, who shall give sufficient Security for the faithful and punctual Performance of his or their Contract; and that the Governor be enabled to fulfil the Contract in Behalf of the State by drawing Warrants on the Treasury, in favour of the Person or Persons he may contract with.’ “That He (William Blount) for his Services performed in Congress in the two last fed eral years, hath received only paper Mony at the rate of sixty four pounds per Month equal only to forty two pounds thirteen Shillings and four pence, altho’ he applyed by Letter to the Governor for the payment to be made him at Philadelphia agreeable to the first recited Resolution. That He conceives himself entitled in good faith under the Resolutions aforesaid to an additional Payment of Salary of thirty two pounds paper Mony per Month, that is to make his Salary equal to sixty four pounds Specie per Month agreeable to the Aforesaid Resolutions and relying on the Justice of your honor able Body in full Confidence that his Petition will be granted he prays that you will be pleased so to order as that the aforesaid sum of thirty two pounds paper Mony per Month be paid to him in Compliance with the aforesaid Resolutions and he as in duty bound will pray. Wm. Blount. December 12th 1787, at Tarborough.” Legislative Papers 76, Nc—Ar. John Brown to James Breckinridge Dear Breckinridge 1 New York Deer. 16th. [17]87. Two days ago I reed yours of the 26th Novr. filld with the Warmest expressions of friendship & regard for me which are the more flater- ing as from a long & intimate acquaintance I am confident of their
