588 December 16, 1787 Sincerity—from a particular attention to my own feelings can with truth assure that my mind with respect to you is influenced by the same disinterested Passion. It is with pleasure that I look forward to that Period when our friendly intercourse shall no longer be in- terupted by the remoteness of our situations from each other in a Country where my prospects in life are all center’d & from which my mind is seldom absent. 2 I reached this place about ten days past in company with Mr. Griffin, my Journey was much more agreeable than I expected. At Phila. I met Colo. Grayson on his return to Virginia who informd me that there would not be a Congress for some time, upon which I staid in Phila. two weeks which time I spent very agree ably in Vewing that flourishing City & attending the Debates of the State Convention upon the proposed plan of Foederal Government. Upon my arrival here I found only the Representatives of four States; & at present there is no reason to expect a Congress before Xmas; 3 this puts it out of my power to give you any information of the Views of that Body relative to Kentuckey. Tho from a change of Delegates in some of the States & also from a Change in some political measures affecting the Interest of some of the Eastern States I think there is some reason to expect that the Rights & Interest of Kentucky will meet with due attention. I am very comfortably fixed in the best Boarding house in this place in company with Madison, Griffin & some other Delegates from the Eastern States, have been chiefly im- ployed in receiving & returning Visits of Etiquette from & to Foreign Ministers, Consuls, Secretaries, &c. &c. I have nearly gone the grand round & doubt not but you will believe me when I say that I am glad it is over when you consider my Natural avertion to Ceremony. I have access to a valuable Collection of Books & as I shall have lit tle to do of a public nature at least for some time I propose to be very studious & hope by reading & keeping good Company this Winter to make considerable Improvement. I am happy to hear that you & my Brother are comfortably fixed together for the Season in College. You have it in your power to make your selves respected & your opportu nities of Improvement are not surpassed by any upon the Continent. Tell James that I am much surprised to find that a letter from him to me did not accompany yours; that I shall insist upon one before I write to him. As I am in haste shall avail myself of that claim to re spect due to Age I have not heard from Brother Sam tho have written him frequently. The new Constitution is the only subject of Conversation in every Company in this place; I am inclined to think a Majority of the States will adopt it through choice & that the Minority will be reduced to ac cede by necessity. Our present political System is in utter Confusion. A change must & will soon take place. God grant it may be for the better. Adieu Yours &c, J Brown 4
