December 20, 1787 593 James Madison to George Washington Dear Sir . New York Deer. 20. 1787. I was favoured on Saturday with your letter of the 7th instant, along with which was covered the printed letter of Col. R. H. Lee to the Gov- ernour. 1 It does not appear to me to be a very formidable attack on the new Constitution; unless it should derive an influence from the names of the correspondents, which its intrinsic merits do not entitle it to. He is certainly not perfectly accurate in the statement of all his facts; and I should infer from the tenor of the objections in Virginia that his plan of an Executive would hardly be viewed as an amend ment of that of the Convention. It is a little singular that three of the most distinguished Advocates for amendments; and who expect to unite the thirteen States in their project, appear to be pointedly at variance with each other on one of the capital articles of the System. Col. Lee proposes that the President should chuse a Council of Eleven and with their advice have the absolute appointment of all Officers. Col. Mason’s proposition is that a Council of six should be appointed by the Congress. What degree of power he would confide to it I do not know. The idea of the Governour is that there should be a plural ity of co-equal heads, distinguished probably by other peculiarities in the organization. It is pretty certain that some others who make a common cause with them in the general attempt to bring about alter ations differ still more from them, than they do from each other; and that they themselves differ as much on some other great points as on the Constitution of the Executive. You did not judge amiss of Mr Jay. The paragraph affirming a change in His opinion of the plan of the Convention, was an arrant forgery. He has contradicted it in a letter to Mr. J. Vaughan which has been printed in the Philadelphia Gazettes. 2 Tricks of this sort are not uncommon with the Enemies of the new Constitution. Col. Mason’s objections were as I am told published in Boston mutilated of that which pointed at the regulation of Commerce. 3 Doer. Franklins con cluding speech which you will meet with in one of the papers here with inclosed, is both mutilated & adulterated so as to change both the form & the spirit of it. 4 I am extremely obliged by the notice you take of my request con cerning the Potowmack. I must insist that you will not consider it as an object of any further attention. The Philada. papers will have informed you of the result of the Con vention of that State. N. Jersey is now in Convention, & has probably by this time adopted the Constitution. Genl. Irvine of the Pena. Delega tion who is just arrived here, and who conversed with some of the mem bers at Trenton tells me that great unanimity reigns in the Convention.
