January 2,1788 603 will subscribe to the measure. Reports from the three southern States are not so favorable as could be wished, but the plan so well accords with the present politics of South Carolina, that it is the prevailing opinion that they will be on the right side. Georgia will follow the ma jority. If three solid columns can be formed, consisting of the Eastern Phalanx, the southern Light Infantry, & the brave fellows on the banks of the Delaware, no European intrigue or State divisions, can resist the attack or disconcert the movements of so powerful a body— but if success, equal to the most sanguine wishes attends the present plan, the whole body cannot appear in battle array with the President & General at the head, till this time 12 Months. We must wait with pa tience & I sincerely hope that we may see it accomplished. The Patriots in Holland are suffering for their ill timed & ill man aged opposition. The french Men have behaved in Character. Their conduct towards America did them honor for they persevered to the last—but they have finessed the poor dutchmen out of their liberty. I am, Dear sir, Yours most Affectionately, R Alden [PS.] You will receive with this some of the papers of this city. I have not been able to procure all which contain the pieces against the con stitution. A Writer under the signature of Publius takes up the matter upon the best grounds—and is a very fair, candid, sensible advocate upon the federal side. There is nothing personal or scurrilous in his writings—he only means to convince by plain reasoning—by argu ments drawn from facts & experience. You will hear from Your friends here, respecting the family. I have confined myself to politics, & have said nothing about myself or those I esteem—but believe when I assure You that You are sincerely loved & esteemed by Yours Affy, RA RC (DLC: Johnson Papers). Addressed: “Sami Wm. Johnson Esqr.” 1 Johnson was Alden’s brother-in-law, as he had been the brother of Alden’s late wife Nancy. See Alden to William Samuel Johnson, November 12, 1786, note 1. 2 For the adoption of the Constitution by the Pennsylvania ratifying convention on December 12, see Doc. Hist. ofRatif, 2:322-24, 586-91. s For the adoption of the Constitution by the Delaware and New Jersey ratifying con ventions on December 7 and 18, respectively, by votes of 30 to 0 and 38 to 0, see ibid., 3:47-111,129-85. 4 The Connecticut ratifying convention actually adopted the Constitution by a vote of 128 to 40 on January 9. Ibid., pp. 339-562. Samuel A. Otis to Elbridge Gerry Dear Sir New York 2d Jany 1788 It was my intention to have done myself the honor to have called upon you, previous to my leaving Massachusetts, but partly from cha-
