604 January 2, 1788 grin at undertaking an employment in which I could render but little service to myself, or my Country, And in part from a hurry of busi ness inseperable from my then Situation I was deprived of the honor. I do not now address you upon the great Subject of contemplation, be cause everything worth your attention (& many things beneath it) has been said, & better said, than is in my power. Much less do I mean to dragg you into Convention; to hiss you for speaking contrary to what I might dictate, Or compell you to vote with me. 1 For besides other objections to the measure, the being run thro the body, for which at the present moment I have no great propensity, seems a nat ural one; And I am not sure but if I could effect this, as the re doubted Capt Barry did at Philadelphia in regard to a member of their Assembly 2 that you would not turn the hiss upon myself; But my principal design in writing is to evince that esteem, which a series of kind offices on your part have inspired. And altho without reserve I confess myself a federalist, I have so much charity for unbelievers, as most sincerely to tender you my ser vices, in any way that you may think proper to command them, feeling perfectly secure in your well known delicacy, & nice sense of honor. I am not by any means of opinion, if your dissent & influence, should stop the progress of the new system, that all would be lost, and no Government adopted; altho I am in doubt whether we shall do bet ter; And think there is great danger whilst we are contending for per fection in Government, which no human Legislators are competent to, we shall be left without, any; And there will be a kind of necessity for some of you great Spirits, to come forward and call us to order, in your own right. There seems at present to be a pause in the Govt of the United States. I suppose in their eager attention to the New confederation, the old is forgotten, And therefor only five States (but one from N England) are represented; It is hoped however there will be a meeting of at least seven States in all this month. Mr A Lee is gone down to Virginia (where tis said the opposition gains ground) full of zeal, a Candidate for Convention; Gr. Clinton setts of [f] /orPaughkepsie this morning to put his machinery in motion. I understand all the States South of this, Virginia excepted, either have, or will accede. If the E States had a propensity to be jealous, the eagerness, avidity, & illiberality of some of the States, in their mode of adoption, would have inspired it; However I hope nothing will pre vent them, & espesially Massachusetts, from discussing & determining the question, with that decorum, & dignity of debate which have marked her public Councils; And that a fair majority will be submitted to, let the question be determined as it may. I should feel myself honored by a line from you as leisure permits, And am very respectfully, Your most humble Sert, Sam. A Otis
