January 3, 1788 605 RC (DLC: Elbridge Gerry Photostats). 1 Gerry was one of the leading opponents of the Constitution in the Massachusetts ratifying convention, while Otis was a vigorous supporter of the document. 2 The reference is to the action of Capt. John Barry, who at the head of a Philadel phia mob on September 29, 1787, compelled two antifederalist Pennsylvania assembly men to return to their seats to produce a quorum, whereupon the assembly called a state convention to consider the new Federal Constitution. See Doc. Hist, of Ratify 13:293-94, 15:475. James Madison to Tench Coxe Dear Sir NewYorkJany. 3d. 1788 I have been favored with yours of the 28 Ult. and thank you for the paper which it inclosed. 1 Your arguments appear to me to place the subject to which they relate in its true light, and must be satisfactory to the writer himself whom they oppose, if he can suspend for a mo ment his preconceived opinions. But whether they should have any ef fect or not on him, they will unquestionably be of service in Virginia, and probably in the other Southern States. Col. Hamilton has read the paper with equal pleasure & approbation with myself. He seems to think that the Farmers of New York are in no danger of being infected with an improper jealousy of a sacrifice of their interests to a partiality for commerce or navigation. Connecticut is more likely perhaps to be awake to suspicions of that sort; and it will be well to counteract them every where by candid and judicious explanations. I propose to send a copy of yours to S. Carolina by the first conveyance; and to put an other into the hands of some Gentleman who corresponds with Geor gia if I can find one. I have no correspondent in that State. I never till very lately received an answer from Virga, on the subject of your former observations in support of the foedl Constitution. I find now that the three first letters were published at Richmond in a pamphlet with one or two other little pieces, and that they had a very valuable effect. The 4th was circulated in the Newspapers, not having arrived in time to be put into the pamphlet. 2 We have received no information of very late date or of a satisfac tory nature from Europe. The London Head in the paper of this morning which I inclose, mentions a circumstance which leads to some new reflections on the situation of the Dutch. 3 I have no intelligence from the States Eastward of this worth adding. The elections in Massts. must by this time authorize a pretty good estimate of the two parties with regard to the plan of the Con vention, but I am not yet possessed of the conjectures on the subject. It seems that both Mr. Gerry who opposed the plan in Convention, and Mr. Dana who followed the example in Congs, are left out of the returns from their respective districts. Perhaps the enmity of the for-
