608 January 6,1788 The intemperance of the few Philadelphians in attempting to drive the plan through their Legislature and in hissing the minority in Con vention has considerably injured the good cause. Yet I see no reason to alter my opinion on the subject, or to disbelieve that the good sense of the people will finally prevail and the Constitution be adopted. There are no late accounts from Europe but the general opinion here is against a war at present between France and England. Please to accept the papers herewith enclosed and believe me to be with great Respect, Sir, your most Obedient & Very Humble Servant, N. Gilman RC (Capt.J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). 1 President Langdon’s letter of December 23 is in the Myers Collection, NN. 2 For Tench Coxe’s letter of December 28, see Madison, Papers (Rutland), 10:348. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear friend N. Yorkjany. 10. 1788. I have put off writing from day to day for some time past, in expec tation of being able to give you the news from the packet, which has been looked for every hour. Both the French & English have over- staid their usual time ten or 15 days, and are neither of them yet ar rived. We remain wholly in the dark with regard to the posture of things in Europe. I received two days ago your favor of Deer. 27 inclosing a copy of your letter to the Assembly. 1 I have read it with attention, and I can add with pleasure, because the spirit of it does as much honor to your candour, as the general reasoning does to your abilities. Nor can I be lieve that in this quarter the opponents to the Constitution will find encouragement in it. You are already aware that your objections are not viewed in the same decisive light by me as they are by you. I must own that I differ still more from your opinion, that a prosecution of the experiment of a second Convention will be favorable even in Vir ginia to the object which I am sure you have at heart. It is to me ap parent that had your duty led you to throw your influence into the op posite scale, that it would have given it a decided and unalterable preponderancy; and that Mr. Henry would either have suppressed his enmity, or been baffled in the policy which it has dictated. It appears also that the ground taken by the opponents in different quarters, for bids any hope of concord among them. Nothing can be farther from your views than the principles of different setts of men, who have car ried on their opposition under the respectability of your name. In this State the party adverse to the Constitution, notoriously meditate ei ther a dissolution of the Union, or protracting it by patching up the
