610 January 10,1788 The Connecticut Convention has probably come to a decision be fore this; but the event is not known here. It is understood that a great majority will adopt the Constitution. The accounts from Massts. vary extremely according to the channels through which they come. It is said that S. Adams who has hitherto been reserved, begins to make open declaration of his hostile views. His influence is not great, but this step argues an opinion that he can calculate on a considerable party. It is said here, and I believe on good ground that N. Carolina has postponed her Convention till July, in order to have the previous example of Virga. Should N. Carolina fall into Mr. H y’s politics which does not appear to me improbable, it will endanger the Union more than any other circumstance that could happen. My apprehen sions of this danger increase every day. The multiplied inducements at this moment to the local sacrifices necessary to keep the States to gether, can never be expected to co-incide again, and they are coun teracted by so many unpropitious circumstances, that their efficacy can with difficulty be confided in. I have no information from S. Car olina or Georgia, on which any certain opinion can be formed of the temper of those States. The prevailing idea has been that both of them would speedily & generally embrace the Constitution. It is im possible however that the example of Virga. & N. Carolina should not have an influence on their politics. I consider every thing therefore as problematical from Maryland Southward. I am surprised that Col. H. Lee who is a well-wisher to the Constitu tion should have furnished Wilkinson with the alarm concerning the Mississippi, but the political connections of the latter in Pena, would account for his biass on the subject. We have no Congress yet. The number of St[ate]s on the Spot does not exceed five. It is probable that a quorum will now be soon made. A Delegate from N. Hampshire is expected which will make up a rep resentation from that State. The termination of the Connecticut Con vention will set her delegates at liberty. And the Meeting of the Assem bly of this State, will fill the vacancy which has some time existed in her Delegation. I wish you every happiness, and am with the sincerest affection Yrs., Js. Madisonjr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rudand), 10:354-56. 1 See ibid., pp. 346-47. Randolph’s October 10 letter to the Speaker of the Virginia House of Delegates explaining his reasons for not signing the Constitution had been is sued as a separate pamphlet in late December, for which see Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 20,669. It also appeared in the Virginia Gazelle and Weekly Advertiser of January 3 and 10 and was widely reprinted in other states. For the letter and an exploration of Ran dolph’s position on the Constitution, see Doc. Hist. ofRatif., 8:260-75, 15:117-35.
