614 January 20,1788 well calculated to cherish the distrust of a favorable issue to a second Convention, and will be reprinted here. I do not know a better mode of serving the fcederal cause at this moment than to display the dis agreement of those who make a common cause agst. the Constitution. It must produce the best affects on all who seriously wish a good gen eral Government. 2 Your commands for the Editor of the paper under the title of Publicus shall be attended to. 3 I am Dear Sir with great re spect Yr. Obedt. hbl sert. Js. Madison Jr Reprinted from Madison, Papers (Rutland), 17:525. 1 For Coxe’s letter of January 16 enclosing federalist speeches from Thomas Lloyd’s Debates of the Convention, of the State of Pennsylvania, on the Constitution, Proposed for the Gov ernment of the United States (Philadelphia, 1788), see Madison, Papers (Rutland), 10:375; and Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 21,365. 2 Coxe’s “little piece” under the pseudonym “Philanthropes,” in which he pointed out the extent to which three non-signers of the Constitution—Elbridge Gerry, George Mason, and Edmund Randolph—differed from one another in their opposition to the Constitution, had been published in the Pennsylvania Gazette and Philadelphia Indepen dent Gazetteer on January 16. Madison had it reprinted in the New York Morning Post of January 21 and the Daily Advertiser of January 23. See Doc. Hist, of Ratif, 15:391-93. 3 Coxe had requested that a copy of “the letters of Publius,” which were “to be printed by Subscription at New Yk,” be sent to him. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear friend N. Yorkjany. 20. 1788 I have received your favor of the 3 inst. 1 By a letter from Mr. Turberville of later date I have the mortification to find that our friend Mr. Jones has not succeeded in his wish to be translated from the Executive to the Judiciary Department. 2 I had supposed that he stood on ground that could not fail him in a case of that sort; and am wholly at a loss to account for the disappointment. The Count de Moustier arrived a few days ago as successor to the Chevr. de la Luzerne. He had so long a passage that I do not know whether the dispatches brought by him, contain much that is new. 3 It seems that although the affairs of Holland are put into a pacific train, those of the Russians & Turks may yet produce a general broil in Eu rope. The Prussian Troops are to be withdrawn & the fate of the Dutch regulated by negociation. The intelligence from Massachts. begins to be rather ominous to the Constitution. The interest opposed to it is reinforced by all con nected with the late insurrection, and by the province of Mayne which apprehends difficulties under the new System in obtaining a separate Government greater than may be otherwise experienced. Judging from the present state of the intelligence as I have it, the probability is
