January 23, 1788 619 Jeremiah Wadsworth to Mehitable Wadsworth My dear friend 1 New York Jany 23d 1788 I arrived here on Sunday Morning very much fatigued 2 —the roads were bad the Waggons broke down & we were very much put to it to get along. I am however very well & catched no cold. I left the Chil dren at Farefield very tired. My love to sisters—Harriet & Faithy. I am very affectionately, Yours, J Wadsworth 3 [PS.] Mrs Burr is unwell. I have not seen her. The Young Ladies were mortified at havg no letters from Harriet. I told them their last letters were considered as sent to drop the correspondence at which they ap peared a little embarrassed & beged her to write. RC (CtHi: Wadsworth Papers). 1 Wadsworth had married Mehitable Russell, the daughter of the Rev. William Russell of Middletown, Conn., September 29, 1767. They had three children—Harriet (b. 1769), Daniel (b. 1771), and Catherine (b. 1774). DAB-, and John D. R. Platt, “Jeremiah Wadsworth: Federalist Entrepreneur” (Ph.D. diss., Columbia University, 1955), p. 4. 2 Wadsworth was on hand when Congress first achieved a quorum on Monday, Jan uary 21. JCC, 34:1. 3 Wadsworth also wrote the following brief letter to his associate Peter Colt of Hart ford on January 22. “The Ginseng is not arrived, and the India Man not going out will leave Mr Moor in a loss with that article. Flat Sud dull at 6/6 will give Curtiss a loss, as his sud was so bad no body would buy it at any price it must be sold for Oyl. “The India Man not going out prevents my Beef selling. This will make it necessary to call on all my friends or rather debters for Money—& they must pay. Tell Jos. if the Snow is of[f| or the ground Bare to keep the Sheep out of the Mowing ground—& tell Cap Seymour to get if Possible twenty load of Straw. ” Wadsworth Papers, CtHi. Four similar letters from Wadsworth to Colt, dated February 3, 10, 12, and 22, are also in the Wadsworth Papers, but will not be reproduced in these Letters. Paine Wingate to John Sullivan Stratham Jany 23. 1788. “I cannot excuse myself in not returning to your Excellency, before I leave home, my most grateful acknowledge ments for the very polite and obliging manner in which you have in troduced me to some of the most respectable characters at New York. Be pleased to accept my assurances that any influence which your Ex cellency shall give me by your recommendations, I will not fail to im prove for the benefit of this and of the United States, whenever op portunity presents. And should it possibly ever be in my power to render to you any personal services for your repeated kind offices, I shall esteem myself fortunately happy. Agreeably to your Excellency’s
