620 January 23, 1788 proposal, I yesterday waited upon the Treasurer and received Fifty pounds for Mr. Gilman and a like sum for myself, with which I shall set out on my journey as soon as circumstances will permit, probably by Saturday or Monday next. When I reflect on expences which are unavoidable at New-York, and the smalness of the sum which I have received, I cannot but feel anxious lest Mr. Gilman will be greatly dis appointed, and we both find ourselves soon in a very disagreable situ ation for want of cash.” RC (ICHi: Gunther Collection). James Madison to George Washington Dear Sir N. Yorkjany. 25. 1788. I have been favoured since my last with yours of the 10th inst. with a copy of the Governours letter to the Assembly. 1 I do not know what impression the latter may make in Virginia. It is generally understood here that the arguments contained in it in favor of the Constitution are much stronger than the objections which prevented his assent. His arguments are forceable in all places, and with all persons. His objec tions are connected with his particular way of thinking on the subject, in which many of the Adversaries to the Constitution do not concur. The information from Boston by the mail on the evening before last, has not removed our suspence. The following is an extract of a letter from Mr. King dated on the 16th inst. 2 “We may have 360 members in our Convention. Not more than 330 have yet taken their seats. Immediately after the settlement of Elec tions, the Convention resolved that they would consider and freely de liberate on each paragraph without taking a question on any of them individually, & that on the question whether they would ratify, each member should be at liberty to discuss the plan at large. This Resolu tion seems to preclude the idea of amendments; and hitherto the measure has not been suggested. 1 however do not from this circum stance conclude that it may not hereafter occur. The opponents of the Constitution moved that Mr. Gerry should be requested to take a seat in the Convention to answer such enquiries as the Convention should make concerning facts which happened in the passing of the Constitu tion. Although this seems to be a very irregular proposal, yet consider ing the jealousies which prevail with those who made it (who are cer tainly not the most enlightened part of the Convention) and the doubt of the issue had it been made a trial of strength, several friends of the Constitution united with the opponents and the Resolution was agreed to and Mr. Gerry has taken his seat. Tomorrow we are told cer-
