624 January 27, 1788 miles above Cayahoga, are within a very few miles of each other, (per haps four or five) and that the Country is level. Several other persons of considerable credibility and information, have assured me the portage between Muskingum, and the Waters falling into the Lake, in wet seasons—do not exceed 15 miles—some say two miles, but I be lieve the first is the safest to credit. At Mahoning, and for many miles above and below, I found the general course of the Beaver to be East & West, from which I con cluded this place to be the nearest to the main branch of Caya hoga—and on comparing the sundry accounts I am led to think, that, the shortest communication between the Waters of Beaver, Muskingum, and Lake Erie, will be found to lie East and west of Cayahoga. I have also been informed by a young Gentleman of ve racity, that the sources of the grand River (laid down in Hutchins’s Map) and a branch of Beaver which falls into Big Beaver, called Shi- nango, are not more than twelve miles apart—the Country hilley—I know this to be a fine Boatable stream its confluence with the Big Beaver about 20 miles from the Ohio. I droped down the Beaver from Mohoning to the great fall about seven miles from the Ohio, in a Canoe on the first of July without any difficulty—it is true that at this season when all the western waters are remarkably low, some small riffles appear—but nothing to cause any material obstruction. The great falls appear at first view impracticable, at low water; in deed too tremendous, at any season, notwithstanding it has been passed at all seasons. I met two men in a flat Boat a few miles above, who had carried their Cargo half a mile on shore and then warped up the empty Boat—they set with poles the rest of the way to Mahon ing. This Boat carried about a ton and a half—but at some seasons there will undoubtedly be water sufficient for Boats with five tons in. Canoes tis said have ascended 25 miles higher than Mahoning, which must certainly be very near one branch of Muskingum—as it continues a westerly course—and this most Easterly branch of that River, it is agreed by all who have been in that quarter approaches very near to waters falling into Lake Erie. All agree likewise that the Rivers north of the dividing ridge are deep and smooth the Country being flat, particularly those west of the Cayahoga. Following the Indian path, which generally keeps in the low ground, along the River, the distance from the mouth of Big Beaver to Mahoning is 50 miles, which with the 30 computed from thence to Cayahog makes 80. But I am certain a much better road will be found by keeping along the high grounds which divide the waters of the big, and little Beaver, and the distance shortened at least 20 miles—but this digression I must beg your pardon for. To your 4th querie I flatter myself I shall be able to afford you more satisfaction, as I think I can point out a more practicable and easy Communication by which the
