636 February 3, 1788 Charles Thomson to Thomas FitzSimons Dear Sir New York Feby 3. 1788 Though the Asia was obliged to sail without sea letters, yet as Mr J Mifflin informed me that the owners wished to be supplied with them & meant to send them after by some other vessel, I embraced the ear liest Opportunity of procuring and now sent [send] enclosed the sea letter for the Asia. 1 I am sorry that the non attendance of the mem bers has delayed this so long, 2 but hope in time a remedy will be found for this as well as other defects in the Administration of the public concerns of the Union. Mrs. T joins in Compliments to Mrs. Fitzsimmons & your self, Sr, Your obedient humble Servt, Cha Thomson RC (DLC: Continental Congress Miscellany). 1 For this February 1 action, see JCC, 34:11—12. 2 See Thomson to FitzSimons, November 5, 1787. See also Thomson to the States, February 15. Samuel A. Otis to James Warren Dear Sir New York Feby 6 1788 I wrote you in my last 1 that a few days after my arrival here, which was 17 Novr, the Secretary of Congress notified the States that were unrepresented, to send forward their delegates; But as I suppose, the approaching convention of several States was so interesting, that no representation took place until 21st Jany, & then of only seven States; N Hamshire, Connecticut, N Carolina, & Georgia, having only one, & N York, & R Island none. The apprehension of an Indian War, you are sensible is not ground less; Georgia having made a formal declaration, having 4500 men raised & raising. Reports indeed are that, the Indians either suppose, or they really are, ill used by the Georgians & N. Carolinians; That such are their resentments, whether well or ill founded, that they never will again be at peace with them; But if this is the fact, & Geor gia & N Carolina would make the cession, that the other States have done, agreeably to repeated calls of Congress, The United States could consistantly adopt the business; And the Indians having no prej udices against the fcederal Government, might probably be induced to treat with the Commissioners of the USA, upon terms much more advantageous, than with those against whom they are highly irritated; But altho the USA have already expended as much to defend Georgia, as the whole State upon a fair valuation would sell for, She delays mak-
