February 16, 1788 647 next Tuesday week as the day for receiving the minister plenipoten tiary of his most Christian Majesty who has lately arrived. 3 Your Excellency will probably have heard that New York have agreed to call a Convention to meet in June next. The Convention in North Carolina I am told is not to meet until July which will be the lat est of the twelve States. Some suppose that since the Massachusetts have adopted the new Constitution all the states will comply. None seem to doubt of nine States. I have now a personal concern for which I must beg your Excel lency’s favorable assistance. Mr. Sami. Stacey of Portsmouth has an order on a Gentleman in New York for 500 Dollars which I expect will be paid to me soon as his Attorney, & which will be under his com mand whenever called for. This money unless he has some use for it, in New York, which I know nothing of, it would be convenient for him to receive in New Hampshire, and on the other hand as I came on with but little money for myself as well as for Mr. Gilman it would be very convenient for us to reserve the money here for our necessary ex- pences & draw upon the Treasurer at Exeter for the like sum to pay him. This Mr. Stacey no doubt will consent to do provided he can be sure of his money whenever he calls for it. What the present state of the Treasury is I know not, but if your Excellency will be pleased to di rect the Treasurer to pay that sum or such part of it as you shall think fit to our order in favor of Mr. Stacey and the Treasurer can find him self able to answer the Order, or give in consequence of your direc tion encouragement of speedy payment, I hope the matter may be managed to Mr. Stacey’s and our mutual advantage, and Your Excel lency will thereby confer great obligations on Mr. Gilman and myself. The part of the money which I suppose would answer my purposes, would be 50 pounds for which sum I have already your Excellency’s Order and only need your particular influence with the treasurer for the payment of. For the remainder of the money Mr. Gilman wishes an Order & the like influence. If your Excellency will do me the honor of a Letter as soon as may be upon this subject and any other matters you may have in command, I shall think myself greatly obliged, and have the honor to be your Excellency’s most respectful and humble Servant, Paine Wingate RC (Nh-Ar: State Papers, Revolutionary Correspondence). 1 For Wingate’s arrival and congressional credentials, see JCC, 34:31-32. 2 For the secretary for foreign affairs’ February 12 report to Congress on John Adams’ dispatches of October 25 and November 15, 1787, see JCC, 34:48. For other Adams dispatches recently received, see also JCC, 34:22-23, 29-30. 3 John Jay’s report on the arrival of the new French minister, Elenore-Franfois-Elie, comte de Moustier, and the “Ceremonials” to be followed in receiving him, was taken up by Congress February 14. February 26 was set for a public audience, and a commit tee was appointed to report on “arrangements" for the event, which were debated and referred “to the Secy of Congress to take order.” The official proceedings of Congress
