648 February 16, 1788 for that date consist entirely of Secretary Thomson’s account of the audience, which featured the presentation of a letter of credence from Versailles, an address from Moustier to Congress, and a response from Pres. Cyrus Griffin. See JCC, 34:30, 44-46, 51-52, 54, 62-65; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 13:175n. For Moustier’s views on the new constitution and his impressions of the waning months of the Confederation, see the “Correspondence of the Comte de Moustier with the Comte de Montmorin, 1787-1789,” edited by Henry E. Bourne, AHR9> (July 1903): 709-33; 9 (October 1903): 86-96. Paine Wingate to Mary Wingate Wiggin My dear ChikU New York Feb. 16, 1788. In my last letter which was directed to your Aunt Wingate, 2 I inti mated that I intended to direct my next to you. This I conclude will be very welcome as I know that you was not a little anxious at my leaving home. You have observed that I was rather depressed in spirits for some time before I came on my journey. I am not quite so much now as I was then, altho’ I cannot say that I feel very cheerful. I am very well in health & as agreably situated as I could be in this City. There are five of us who board in one family with a clever widow woman. The gentlemen are agreeable, three of them are unmarried, the other near my age who has had eighteen children. The widow I never see only at table. We have no other amusement but conversation & read ing. I have no visiting acquaintance yet, & unless I should find some body that I can visit without much ceremony, I desire to have none. We do but little business in Congress yet, & there is nothing interest ing which I have to Communicate. This gives leisure to write which you must not expect will be so frequent in future. Last evening I went to the Theatre where I saw acted a silly Commedy called the School of Scandal & a farce called the true born Irishman. 3 Neither of them were worth hearing for the sentiments contained in them, but the manner in which they were performed afforded some diversion. The play house was curiously prepared for the variety of scenes & the com pany, especially [the] ladies were very showey. But the entertainment was not, worth the expence, unless merely for curiosity once, & I am determined not to go any more to that trifling place, which is fre quented by many as often as twice in a week. The expence of living here will not exceed what I expected unless it should be for clothing &c &c which I can assure your Aunt Wingate has cost me nothing yet. I shall not be put out for want of ruffles as a large number of the Dele gates dress as plain as I do, while some young gentlemen dress very gay. My bald head does very well when dressed which costs me six pence pr. day. Washing costs half a dollr pr. Dozen great & small pieces together, which I do not think dear. The Congress house is ele gant where every member has a great chair & writing desk & pen, Ink
