February 16,1788 649 & paper before him, which with paper & all the necessaries for writing at our lodgings are supplyed at the public expence, so that I begrudge nothing but my time in writing letters. Each member also has given him all the j[o]urnals of Congress & seventeen news papers every week which is a considerable work to read. There are now about twenty members of Congress present who are in general very sociable & appear to me much like other men. Next Tuesday week we are to have a very great day in receiving and giving a public audience to a French Count who is just arrived a Minister plenipotentiarry from his most Christian Majesty. This will be a curiosity that does not often happen. I have now given you enough of this triffling information. Its coming from a distant & affectionate friend is what alone can make it worth reading. I hope that you are happy, & by a prudent discreet conduct in life will continue so. You must not allot upon uninter rupted pleasures nor expect too much from the imperfect enjoyments of life, if you wish not to be disappointed. For my own part my expec tations of happiness here were never very raised & for that reason have not been mortifyed with disappointments. You will find that a vir tuous & sober mind without the mistaken gloom of superstition will best contribute to calmness & chearfulness. This will rob you of no real pleasures. I am led to these reflections while I am writing by hear ing the almost numberless carriages ratling on the pavements to the assembly room this evening. This City is noted for its expensive plea sures & dissipations in a throng of young company, but one hour in the circle of my old friends would be infinitely preferable by me. I hope to hear from my family soon & that they are all well. Mr. Wiggin can superscribe any letters that are wrote & direct them to me in Con gress at New York & leave them in the Post office at Portsmo[uth] or Exeter & they will come directly to me within eight or ten days. I shall have some letters to write upon business to several persons soon, & it is uncertain when I shall write again to any of the family. Tell Sally & George that I shall not forget to give them a letter when I have leisure nor John & Betsey by that time they shall be able to read such bad writing. I hope Mr. Bigelow & Mr. Mason have paid the money they promised, & that your Mother has been able to buy for you such things as you further wanted. I desire to be remembered to the whole circle of my friends without particularly enumerating them; & be as sured they ever have my best wishes. I am yours affectionately P Wingate P.S. I had forgot to mention in any of my letters the most remarkable circumstance that has attended me in New York which is, that I have always slept alone & never had my bed warmed, which is neither inju rious to my health nor very mortifying to my feelings now. We have had very pleasant & moderate weather until this morning but now have a violent snow storm. Adieu. PW.
