February 29,1788 663 have the honor of communicating it—& are, With the highest respect, Your Most Obedient & Most humble servants, Wm. Irvine John Armstrong jr. James R. Reid RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Written by Armstrong, and signed by Armstrong, Irvine, and Reid. Addressed: “Hon. Peter Muhlenberg Esq., Vice Presidt. &c, Philada. By the Hon. Coll. [John Eager] Howard.” 1 Muhlenberg’s letter enclosed a resolution of the Pennsylvania Assembly concerning “the purchase of a Tract of Country on Lake Erie.” The Pennsylvania Council, Muhlen berg explained, was seeking specific information on the subject—especially an “Esti mate of the sum necessary to purchase, and for what sum other lands belonging to the United States in those parts were sold,” and “respecting the Western Boundary of the State of New York.. . how far the same extends along the Pennsylvania Line.” Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 11:237. See also ibid., pp. 211, 216-17; and Pa. Council Minutes, 15:392. 2 For William Irvine’s February 25 motion on determining the New York-Pennsylva nia boundary, which was referred to a committee that reported March 6, see JCC, 34:57-58, 83-84. The committee’s report that was subsequently sent to the Pennsylvania Council (Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 11:247-49), contains the following note from one of the Pennsylvania delegates: “N.B. The within is a Copy of the proceedings had, on the sub ject mentioned therein, which is now suspended. The Delegates of Massachusetts have sent to that State for instructions, as the right of soil falls to them within the western boundary by an agreement between them & New York. Both these States must acqui esce in the mode of ascertaining the line as they are parties concerned agreeable to the true intent & meaning of the Cession &c.” 3 This “Act,” adopted June 6, is in JCC, 34:203. In addition to directing the geogra pher of the United States to ascertain “the boundary line between the United States and the States of New York and Massachusetts agreeably to the deeds of cession of the said States,” it also authorized the board of treasury “at any time before or after such survey to sell the said tract in whole at private sale for a price not less than three fourths of a dollar per acre in specie or public securities drawing interest.” See also Pennsylva nia Delegates to Benjamin Franklin, June 6? 1788. Charles Thomson to Samuel Provost and John Rodgers Sir— Office of Secretary of Congress, Feby. 29th. 1788 I have the honor to inform You that the United States in Congress Assembled have appointed You one of their Chaplains pursuant to the within Act. 1 With great respect, I have the honor to be, Sir, &c LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). Addressed: “Dr Provost, Dr Rogers.” 1 For the enclosed February 29 “Act” appointing Provost and Rodgers, see JCC, 34:71.
