/ 


\ 


\ 


\   v^N*^ 


\ 


At 


v\ 


HAMILTON'S  WORKS. 


VOL.  IV. 


THE  WORKS 


OF 


ALEXANDER  HAMILTON; 


COMPRISING 


HIS  CORRESPONDENCE, 


AND 


HIS    POLITICAL  AND   OFFICIAL  WHITINGS, 


EXCLUSIVE  OF  THE  FEDERALIST, 


CIVIL      AND      MILITARY. 

PUBLISHED  FROM  THE  ORIGINAL  MANUSCRIPTS  DEPOSITED  IN 

THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  STATE, 

BY   ORDER   OF 

THE  JOINT  LIBRARY  COMMITTEE  OF  CONGRESS. 


EDITED    BY 

JOHN  C.  HAMILTON, 

AUTHOR     OF     "THE     LIFE     OF     HAMILTON." 


»    i  » 


VOL.  IV. 


NEW-YORK- 


> 


JOHN  F.  TROW,  PRINTER,  49,  51  &  53  ANN-STREET. 

M.DCCC.LI. 


.  ■    i.  -  .  . 


Entered,  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1850,  by 

JOHN  C.  HAMILTON, 
In  the  Clerk's  Office  of  the  District  Court  of  the  United  States  for  the  Southern 

District  of  New- York. 


jtr^J  JOJ3N    F.  TROW. 

^    PrU'tr  tab  JtStmotjpw, 

N^_2T>  |9   4-nn-Street. 


.<Et.  32.] 


CABINET    PAPERS. 


HAMILTON  TO   WASHINGTON. 

New-York,  May  5,  1789. 

Sir: 

In  conformity  to  the  intimation  you  were  pleased  to  honor 
me  with  on evening  last,  I  have  reflected  upon  the  eti- 
quette proper  to  be  observed  by  the  President,  and  now  submit 
the  ideas  which  have  occurred  to  me  on  the  subject. 

The  public  good  requires,  as  a  primary  object,  that  the  dig- 
nity of  the  office  should  be  supported. 

Whatever  is  essential  to  this  ought  to  be  pursued,  though  at 
the  risk  of  partial  or  momentary  dissatisfaction.  But  care  will 
be  necessary  to  avoid  extensive  disgust  or  discontent.  Men's 
minds  are  prepared  for  a  pretty  high  tone  in  the  demeanor  of 
the  executive,  but  I  doubt  whether  for  so  high  a  tone  as  in  the 
abstract  might  be  desirable.  The  notions  of  equality  are  yet,  in 
my  opinion,  too  general  and  too  strong  to  admit  of  such  a  dis- 
tance being  placed  between  the  President  and  other  branches  of 
the  government  as  might  even  be  consistent  with  a  due  propor- 
tion. The  following  plan  will,  I  think,  steer  clear  of  extremes, 
and  involve  no  very  material  inconveniences. 

I.  The  President  to  have  a  levee  day  once  a  week  for  re- 
ceiving visits ;  an  hour  to  be  fixed  at  which  it  shall  be  under- 

D  1 


2  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  32. 

stood  that  he  will  appear,  and  consequently  that  the  visitors  are 
to  be  previously  assembled. 

The  President  to  remain  half  an  hour,  in  which  time  he  may 
converse  cursorily  on  indifferent  subjects,  with  such  persons  as 
shall  invite  his  attention,  and  at  the  end  of  that  half  hour  dis- 
appear. Some  regulation  will  be  hereafter  necessary  to  desig- 
nate those  who  may  visit. 

A  mode  of  introduction  through  particular  officers  will  be 
indispensable.     No  visits  to  be  returned. 

II.  The  President  to  accept  no  invitations,  and  to  give  for- 
mal entertainments  only  twice  or  four  times  a  year,  the  anni- 
versaries of  important  events  in  the  Revolution.  If  twice,  the 
day  of  the  declaration  of  independence,  and  that  of  the  inaugura- 
tion of  the  President,  which  completed  the  organization  of  the 
Constitution,  to  be  preferred;  if  four  times,  the  day  of  the 
treaty  of  alliance  with  France,  and  that  of  the  definitive  treaty 
with  Britain  to  be  added.  The  members  of  the  two  houses  of 
the  legislature ;  principal  officers  of  the  government ;  foreign 
ministers  and  other  distinguished  strangers  only  to  be  invited. 
The  numbers  form  in  my  mind  an  objection;  but  there  may  be 
separate  tables  in  separate  rooms.  This  is  practised  in  some 
European  courts.  I  see  no  other  method  in  which  foreign 
ministers  can,  with  propriety,  be  included  in  any  attentions  of 
the  table  which  the  President  may  think  fit  to  pay. 

III.  The  President,  on  the  levee  days,  either  by  himself  or 
some  gentleman  of  his  household,  to  give  informal  invitations  to 
family  dinners  on  the  days  of  invitation.  Not  more  than  six  or 
eight  to  be  invited  at  a  time,  and  the  matter  to  be  confined 
essentially  to  members  of  the  legislature  and  other  official  cha- 
racters.    The  President  never  to  remain  long  at  table. 

I  think  it  probable  that  the  last  article  will  not  correspond 
with  the  ideas  of  most  of  those  with  whom  your  Excellency  may 
converse ;  but  on  pretty  mature  reflection,  I  believe  it  will  be 
necessary  to  remove  the  idea  of  too  immense  an  inequality,  which 
I  fear  would  excite  dissatisfaction  and  cabal.  The  thing  may  be 
so  managed  as  neither  to  occasion  much  waste  of  time  nor  to  in- 
fringe on  dignity. 


jEt.  32.]  CABINET     PAPERS.  3 

It  is  an  important  point  to  consider  what  persons  may  have 
access  to  your  Excellency  on  business.  The  heads  of  depart- 
ments will,  of  course,  have  this  privilege.  Foreign  ministers  of 
some  descriptions  will  also  be  entitled  to  it.  In  Europe,  I  am 
informed,  ambassadors  only  have  direct  access  to  the  chief  magis- 
trate. Something  very  near  what  prevails  there  would,  in  my 
opinion,  be  right.  The  distinction  of  rank  between  diplomatic 
characters  requires  attention,  and  the  door  of  access  ought  not  to 
be  too  wide  to  that  class  of  persons.  I  have  thought  that  the 
members  of  the  Senate  should  also  have  a  right  of  individual  ac- 
cess on  matters  relative  to  the  public  administration.  In  England 
and  France  peers  of  the  realm  have  this  right.  We  have  none 
such  in  this  country,  but  I  believe  that  it  will  be  satisfactory  to  the 
people  to  know  that  there  is  some  body  of  men  in  the  state  who 
have  a  right  of  continual  communication  with  the  President. 
It  will  be  considered  a  safeguard  against  secret  combinations  to 
deceive  him. 

I  have  also  asked  myself,  Will  not  the  representatives  ex- 
pect the  same  privilege,  and  be  offended  if  they  are  not  allowed 
to  participate  with  the  Senate?  There  is  sufficient  danger  of 
this  to  merit  consideration.  But  there  is  a  reason  for  the  distinc- 
tion in  the  Constitution.  The  Senate  are  coupled  with  the  Presi- 
dent in  certain  executive  functions,  treaties,  and  appointments. 
This  makes  them  in  a  degree  his  constitutional  counsellors,  and 
gives  them  a  peculiar  claim  to  the  right  of  access.  On  the  whole, 
I  think  the  discrimination  will  be  proper  and  may  be  hazarded. 

I  have  chosen  this  method  of  communication  because  I  un- 
derstood your  Excellency  that  it  would  be  most  convenient  to 
you.  The  unstudied  and  unceremonious  manner  of  it  will,  I 
hope,  not  render  it  the  less  acceptable.  And  if,  in  the  execution 
of  your  commands,  at  any  time  I  consult  frankness  and  sim- 
plicity more  than  ceremony  or  profession,  I  flatter  myself  you 
will  not  on  that  account  distrust  the  sincerity  of  my  cordial 
wishes  for  your  personal  happiness,  and  the  success  of  your  ad- 
ministration. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  with  the  highest  respect, 

Your  Excellency's  most  obedient  and  humble  servant. 


4  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  32. 

WASHINGTON   TO   HAMILTON. 

New- York.  May  5,  1789. 

Dear  Sir  : 

I  beg  you  to  accept  my  unfeigned  thanks  for  your  friendly 
communications  of  this  date,  and  that  you  will  permit  me  to  en- 
treat a  continuation  of  them  as  occasions  may  arise. 

The  manner  chosen  for  doing  it  is  most  agreeable  to  me.  It 
is  my  wish  to  act  right ;  if  I  err,  the  head  and  not  the  heart 
shall,  with  j 'ustice,  be  chargeable. 

With  sentiments  of  sincere  esteem  and  regard, 

I  am,  dear  Sir, 

Your  obed't  serv't, 

Geo.  Washington. 


WASHINGTON   TO   HAMILTON. 

25th  September,  1789. 

Dear  Sir  : 

From  a  great  variety  of  characters  who  have  made  a  tender 
of  their  services  for  suitable  offices,  I  have  selected  the  following. 
If  Mr.  Jay  and  you  will  take  the  further  trouble  of  running  them 
over  to  see  if  among  them  there  can  be  found  one  who,  under  all 

circumstances,  is  more  eligible  for  the  post-office  than  Col.  0 , 

I  shall  be  obliged  to  you  both  for  your  opinion  thereon  by  eleven 
o'clock.  Another  paper,  which  is  inclosed,  will  show  how  the 
appointments  stand  to  this  time.  And  that  you  may  have  the 
matter  fully  before  you,  I  shall  add  that  it  is  my  present  intention 
to  nominate  Mr.  Jefferson  for  Secretary  of  State,  and  Mr.  Edmund 
Eandolph  as  Attorney  General,  though  their  acceptance  is  pro- 
blematical, especially  the  latter. 

Yours,  sincerely, 

Geo.  Washington. 


Mt.  32.]  CABINET    PAPERS. 


HAMILTON    TO   WILLIAM   SHORT. 

New  York,  October  7.  1789. 

Sir: 

I  think  it  probable  you  will  have  learnt,  through  other  chan- 
nels, before  this  reaches  you,  my  appointment  as  Secretary  of 
the  Treasury  of  the  United  States.  In  this  capacity  the  debt 
due  from  us  to  France,  will,  of  course,  constitute  one  of  the 
objects  of  my  attention. 

Except  with  regard  to  a  few  laws  of  immediate  urgency, 
respecting  commercial  imposts  and  navigation,  the  late  session  of 
Congress  was  wholly  occupied  in  organizing  the  government. 
A  resolution,  however,  passed  the  House  of  Representatives 
declarative  of  their  opinion  that  an  adequate  provision  for  the 
support  of  the  public  credit  was  a  matter  of  high  importance  to 
the  honor  and  prosperity  of  the  United  States  ;  and  instructing 
me  to  prepare  and  report  a  plan  for  that  purpose  at  their  next 
session. 

In  this  state  of  things  you  will  readily  perceive  that  I  can 
say  nothing  very  precise  with  regard  to  the  provision  to  be  made 
for  discharging  the  arrearages  due  to  France.  I  am,  however, 
desirous  that  it  should  be  understood  that  proper  attention  will 
be  paid  to  the  subject  on  my  part;  and  I  take  it  for  granted  that 
the  national  legislature  will  not  fail  to  sanction  the  measures 
which  the  faith  and  credit  of  the  United  States  require  in  refer- 
ence to  it.  In  addition  to  this  I  shall  only  remark  that  it  would 
be  a  valuable  accommodation  to  the  government  of  this  country 
if  the  Court  of  France  should  think  tit  to  suspend  the  payment 
of  the  instalments  of  the  principal  due  and  to  become  due,  for 
five  or  six  years  from  this  period,  on  the  condition  of  effectual 
arrangements  for  the  punctual  discharge  of  the  interest  which 
has  accrued  and  shall  accrue.  But  in  giving  this  intimation  it  is 
not  my  intention  that  any  request  should  be  made  to  that  effect. 
I  should  be  glad  that  the  thing  might  come  about  in  the  form  of 
a  voluntary  and  unsolicited  offer ;  and  that  some  indirect  method 
may  be  taken  to  communicate  the  idea  where  it  would  be  of  use 


ft  HAMILTON'S     WORKS.  [Mt.  32 

it  should  prevail.  It  may  not  be  amiss  that  you  should  know 
that  I  have  hinted  the  matter  in  the  inclosed  private  letter  to 
the  Marquis  de  Lafayette,  in  forwarding  which  I  request  your 
particular  care. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  Sir, 

Your  obedient  and  humble  servant, 
Alexander  Hamilton, 

Secretary  of  the  Treasury. 

William  Short,  Charge  d' Affaires,  Paris. 

P.  S. — Since  writing  the  above,  I  have,  in  a  private  and  un- 
official manner,  broken  the  matter  to  the  Count  de  Moustier ; 
and  I  have  reason  to  conclude  he  will  promote  what  is  desired. 


HAMILTON  TO   WASHINGTON. 

New-York;  Oct.  20;  1789. 

Sm: 

Agreeably  to  your  desire,  I  sit  down  to  commit  a  few  lines 
to  the  post. 

Nothing  worth  particular  mention  has  occurred  since  your 
departure,  except  a  report  brought  by  Mr.  Keane  from  South 
Carolina,  that  Mr.  McGillivray,  the  Indian  chief,  has,  after  a  short 
conference,  left  our  commissioners,  declaring  that  what  they  sug- 
gested was  only  a  repetition  of  the  old  story,  and  inadmissible, 
or  something  to  this  effect.  It  is  added  that  the  lower  Creeks 
appeared,  notwithstanding,  willing  to  go  into  a  treaty,  but  the 
upper  ones  declined  it.  General  Knox,  who  has  particularly 
conversed' with  Mr.  Keane,  will  doubtless  give  you  a  more  accu- 
rate statement  of  what  he  brings.  It  seems,  however,  that  he 
has  his  intelligence  at  second  or  third  hand. 

P.  S.  I  have  just  seen  a  letter  from  a  private  gentleman  of 
considerable  intelligence  now  in  North  Carolina,  who  gives  an  ill 
picture  of  the  prospect  there,  respecting  the  adoption  of  the 
Constitution. 


jEt.  32.J  CABINET    PAPERS. 


SHOKT   TO   HAMILTON. 

Paris,  Nov.  30,  1789. 

Sir: 

The  letter  of  October  the  7th,  which  you  did  me  the  honor 
to  write  me,  was  delivered  two  days  ago  by  Mr.  McCartey,  and 
yesterday  I  received  the  duplicate  by  Count  de  Moustier.     Some 
time  before  the  debt  of  the  United  States  to  France  had  been 
brought  into  view  by  M.  Necker,  in  a  memorial  which  he  deliv- 
ered to  the  National  Assembly  on  the  subject  of  their  finances, 
and  which  I  inclosed  in  my  No.  10  to  Mr.  Jay.     Although  it  is 
stated  there  that  a  proposition  was  on  foot  for  negotiating  a  loan 
in  Amsterdam  on  the  security  of  our  debt,  I  was  informed  that 
it  was  in  agitation  also  to  sell  the  debt.     Knowing  well  that  if  a 
sale  did  take  place,  it  would  be  on  terms  onerous  to  France  and 
injurious  to  the  credit  of  the  United  States,  I  thought  myself 
authorized  by  the  circumstance  to  present  this  matter  to  the  view 
of  the  minister  in  a  light  in  which  I  knew  he  had  not  seen  it. 
He  then  told  me  what  were  the  reasons  which  had  induced  him 
to  listen  to  this  proposition  from  Amsterdam,  let  me  see  clearly 
that  the  rise  of  our  credit  there  was  unknown  to  him,  and  gave 
me  reason  to  believe  that  he  should  do  nothing  farther  in  that 
business.     As  the  effect  of  that  negotiation  would  only  have 
been  for  the  advantage  of  the  house  in  Amsterdam,  and  prejudi- 
cial to  the  interests  of  France  and  credit  of  the  United  States,  I 
hope  the  measures  I  took  will  not  be  disapproved.     Soon  after 
Count  de  Moustier  arrived,  and  sent  the  same  time  a  renewal  of 
the  proposition  from  Amsterdam,  in  which  the  houses  there  had 
united  the  bankers  of  the  United  States,  in  hopes  by  that  means 
of  carrying  their  plan  into  execution;    the  bankers  however 
withdrew  as  soon  as  they  learned  from  those  who  had  seen 
Count  de  Moustier,  that  "  he  was  instructed  by  Congress  to  op- 
pose any  negotiation  of  that  kind."     They  had  from  the  begin- 
ning been  averse  to  the  negotiation,  and  gave  in  to  it  only  from 
an  apprehension  that  it  would  otherwise  be  effected  without 
them. 

Another  company,  of  which  Mr.  Parker  of  Boston  is  the 


8  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  32. 

organ,  presents  itself,  as  made  a  day  or  two  ago — another  propo- 
sition to  the  minister — the  nature  of  it  is,  to  pay  the  amonnt  of 
our  debt  in  bonds  due  by  France  to  the  lenders  of  Amsterdam. 
As  they  pay  bonds  already  due,  and  are  to  receive  our  debt,  which 
is  not  yet  demandable,  they  require  that  the  arrears  of  interest 
which  we  owe  should  be  ceded  to  them  by  France.  They  offer 
me,  in  this  case,  to  subscribe  to  the  condition  of  putting  off  the 
instalments  due,  or  to  become  due  for  five  or  six  years — interest  to 
begin  from  the  present  time.  As  this  would  square  perfectly  with 
your  wishes,  and  would  not  injure  the  credit  of  the  United  States, 
since  they  pay  their  full  debt  to  France  (the  interest  which  she 
yields  being  considered  as  a  discount  for  ready  money),  I  shall 
not  oppose  the  negotiation  if  the  minister  thinks  proper  to  enter 
into  it.  I  rather  think,  however,  he  will  not,  as  the  extreme  and 
pressing  exigencies  of  the  present  crisis  may  induce  him  to  keep 
our  debt,  as  the  best  means,  and  perhaps  the  only  means,  of  com- 
manding cash  in  a  foreign  country ;  by  it,  he  is  sure  of  raising 
money  at  Amsterdam,  should  he  be  induced  to  make  the  sacri- 
fices he  is  asked.  Nothing  but  necessity,  however,  will  induce 
him  to  do  it. 

In  the  case  that  no  negotiation  should  take  place,  then  I 
think  it  probable  that  Count  de  Moustier  will  be  able  to  effect 
what  you  desire.  As  he  enters  into  it  with  zeal,  and  as  you  de- 
sire, with  much  propriety,  that  the  proposition  should  come 
from  France,  rather  than  be  solicited  by  us,  it  will  be  best  to  let 
him  act  in  it.  I  shall  take  care,  however,  to  lose  no  opportunity 
of  inducing  the  minister  to  come  into  }Tour  view  as  of  himself. 
M.  de  Moustier  tells  me  he  has  already  spoken  to  M.  de  Mont- 
morin  on  the  subject,  who  has  referred  him  entirely  to  M. 
ISFecker. 

Long  before  you  receive  this  letter  you  will  have  seen  Mr. 
Jefferson,  and  received  from  him  information  that  may  induce 
you  perhaps  to  adopt  other  views  respecting  our  debt  to  France. 
The  bankers  of  the  United  States  still  repeat  to  me  the  same  as- 
surances which  they  gave  Congress  in  their  letter  of  August  last, 
and  which  they  reiterated  to  Mr.  Jefferson  before  his  departure. 
It  is  useless  to  add  observations  on  the  effect  which  that  measure 


jEt.  33.]  CABINET     PAPERS.  9 

would  operate  in  our  favor  on  the  minds  of  an  assembly  who  are 
new-modelling  this  country,  and  must  soon  influence  its  political 
and  commercial  relations  with  others — an  assembly  who,  whilst 
they  feel  a  real  distress  in  their  finances,  are  told  by  different 
members,  in  the  course  of  debate,  that  the  debt  of  the  United 
States  cannot  be  counted  on  with  any  certainty,  either  for 
present  or  future  relief.  As  soon  as  I  see  what  turn  the  nego- 
tiations mentioned  above,  or  the  proposition  to  be  made  by  M. 
de  Moustier,  in  which  the  Marquis  de  Lafayette  will  do  whatever 
shall  be  required  of  him,  will  take,  I  will  do  myself  the  honor  of 
writing  you  again.  In  the  mean  time,  I  beg  you  to  be  assured, 
sir,  of  the  readiness  with  which  I  shall  at  all  times  be  disposed  to 
carry  into  execution  your  views,  and  of  the  sentiments  of  pro- 
found respect  and  attachment  with  which  I  have  the  honor 
to  be, 

Sir,  your  most  obedient,  and 

Most  humble  servant, 

W.  Short. 

The  Hon.  Mr.  Hamilton. 


SHORT  TO   HAMILTON. 

Paris,  Jan.  28,  1790. 

Sir: 

I  had  the  honor  of  addressing  you  a  letter  on  the  30th  of 
November  last,  in  answer  to  yours  of  the  7th  of  October.  In  it 
I  mentioned  in  what  manner  our  debt  to  France  had  become  an 
object  of  ministerial  consideration  before  the  arrival  of  Count  de 
Moustier,  who  was  charged  with  your  letter,  and  the  influence 
which  his  arrival  had  on  some  of  those  who  were  negotiating 
with  the  minister.  Although  I  knew  from  your  letter  that  he 
was  not  charged  with  the  powers  which  he  had  mentioned  to 
several,  yet  I  did  not  think  proper  to  contradict  it,  as  he  was 
endeavoring  to  operate  what  I  thought  for  the  advantage  of  the 
United  States.     Since  that  time,  the  proposals  made  by  different 


10  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  33. 

persons  to  the  minister  on  the  subject  of  our  debt  have  been  of 
two  sorts.  I  mentioned  them  in  my  letters  to  Mr.  Jay,  and 
begged  the  favor  of  him  to  communicate  it  to  you,  not  being 
willing  to  trouble  you  before  something  definitive  was  done. 
This,  however,  being  deferred  longer  than  I  had  supposed  possi- 
ble after  what  I  had  heard  M.  Montmorin  say  on  the  proposition 
now  before  the  minister,  and  it  being  not  improbable  that  the 
delay  may  still  continue,  I  have  thought  it  my  duty  to  inform 
you  of  it. 

The  offer  now  before  the  minister  is  made  by  Mr.  Gr.  Morris 
and  Mr.  Parker  of  Boston.     It  is,  to  pay  the  full  amount  of  the 
American  debt  (capital  and  interest),  in  French  funds  which  pro- 
duce an  annual  interest  equal  to  that  of  the  American  debt  after 
the  interest  in  arrear  is  added  to  the  capital ;  and  also  to  oblige 
themselves,  after  they  shall  have  deposited  the  French  funds  in 
the  minister's  hands,  to  receive  them  from  him  again,  and  give 
him  in  their  stead,  for  a  certain  part  of  them  to  be  agreed  on, 
cash  agreeable  to  their  present  value.     This  last  article  is  to  ena- 
ble the  minister  to  raise  a  certain  sum  of  money  on  the  American 
debt,  or  rather  on  the  French  funds  given  for  the  American  debt, 
in  the  case  of  public  exigencies  requiring  it.     It  is  certain  the 
minister  was   determined  to  have  accepted  the  offer,  and  has 
been  prevented  only  by  the  want  of  confidence  in  the  pecuniary 
abilities  of  those  who  made  it.     He  asked  security,  and  they 
replied  that  no  house  could  or  would  give  security  for  a  sum  of 
nearly  forty  millions  of  livres ;  they  desired  that  he  should  retain 
the  American  obligations  as  his  security,  and  should  deliver  them 
only  as  he  received  their  value  in  the  French  stocks.     It  seems 
he  did  not  choose  to  commence  such  a  negotiation  except  with 
some  house  of  established  reputation,  and  this  probably  that  his 
own  might  not  be  committed  in  the  case  of  the  contract  not  being 
carried  into  full  execution.     Mr.  Morris  is,  I  believe,  now  in  cor- 
respondence with  the  bankers  of  the  United  States  in  order  to 
engage  them  to  join  him  in  this  offer.    One  of  them,  who  resides 
at  Paris,  is  much  disposed  to  engage  in  it ;  the  others,  I  believe, 
think  differently.     Thus,  sir,  stands  the  affair  at  present.     It 
comes  to  my  knowledge  as  a  private  person.     I  have  thought  it 


Mt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  11 

best,  throughout  the  whole  of  these  negotiations,  to  take  the 
least  part  possible  in  them,  as  it  will  leave  the  most  entire  liberty 
to  the  decisions  of  Congress,  whose  ratification  will  certainly  be 
considered  as  one  of  the  conditions  of  the  contract. 

It  is  useless,  after  what  I  have  said,  to  add  that  nothing  has 
been  done  by  me  on  the  subject  of  delaying  the  instalments  and 
arrears  of  interest  agreeably  to  your  desire.  As  I  know  Count 
de  Moustier  is  desirous  of  doing  whatever  he  supposes  agreeable 
to  the  United  States,  and  at  the  same  time  may  prove  to  the 
minister  their  confidence  in  him,  I  think  this  negotiation  better 
in  his  hands  than  any  other,  and  also  suppose  it  more  conforma- 
ble to  your  idea  that  the  arrangement  should  be  effected  by  his 
means  than  mine.  He  has  told  me  that  he  had  no  doubt  he 
should  get  M.  Necker  to  make  the  offer  of  delay  on  the  condi- 
tions and  in  the  manner  you  desired.  He  added,  also,  what  I 
think  not  so  certain,  that  he  had  put  a  stop  to  the  negotiation  for 
the  purchase  of  the  American  debt.  Since  that  time  I  have  had 
a  conversation  with  M.  Montmorin,  which  convinced  me  that  if 
any  house  of  extensive  and  established  credit  should  make  the 
same  offer  with  that  of  Mr.  Morris,  that  it  would  be  accepted 
without  hesitation.  On  the  whole,  however,  I  think  you  may 
consider  it  as  certain,  either  that  the  debt  will  be  purchased 
by  a  company  who  will  subscribe  to  your  proposals,  or  that  the 
minister  will  make  an  offer  of  what  you  desire. 

I  have  obtained  from  the  Farmers  General  a  return  of  the 
vessels  and  cargoes  which  arrived  in  France  from  the  United 
States  under  the  premium  of  the  last  year.  Supposing  it  may 
contribute  as  a  datum  to  the  calculations  which  you  will  neces- 
sarily be  induced  to  make  on  the  American  commerce,  I  do 
myself  the  honor,  sir,  of  forwarding  it  to  you.  My  letters  to 
Mr.  Jay  long  ago  will  have  made  known  the  continuation  of 
this  premium  to  the  first  of  July  next,  a  like  return  at  that  period 
will  be  easily  obtained.  A  late  letter  from  Bordeaux  informs  me 
that  several  vessels  have  already  arrived  there  from  the  United 
States  with  flour  and  wheat  of  the  last  crop. 

I  beg  leave  to  congratulate  you,  sir,  on  the  return  of  happi- 
ness and  unexampled  prosperity  to  our  country,  and  on  the  effect 


12  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  33. 

which  it  has  already  produced  in  the  dispositions  of  Europe 
towards  us, — my  ardent  wishes  for  their  long  continuance  are  as 
sincere  as  the  assurances  of  those  sentiments  of  profound  respect 
and  attachment,  with  which  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  Sir, 

Your  most  obedient 

and  most  humble  servant, 

W.  Shoet. 

To  Alexander  Hamilton. 


HAMILTON  TO  WILLINK  AND   CO.,   AMSTERDAM. 

Treasury  Department,  May  7th,  1790. 

Gentlemen  : 

Triplicates  of  your  letter  of  the  25th  of  January  last  have 
duly  come  to  hand. 

As  the  success  of  the  negotiations  for  the  purchase  of  the 
debt  due  from  the  United  States  to  France  would  have  been  an 
unwelcome  circumstance,  I  learn  with  pleasure  that  it  had  not 
taken  place. 

The  distinguished  zeal  you  have  in  so  many  instances  shown 
for  the  interests  of  this  country,  entitles  you,  upon  all  occasions, 
to  a  favorable  interpretation  of  the  motives  by  which  you  are 
actuated,  and  is  calculated  to  inspire  a  disposition  to  co-operate 
in  your  arrangements,  though  without  previous  authority,  as  far 
as  circumstances  will  justify.  Nor  should  I  be  apprehensive 
that  a  sanction  to  the  step  you  have  taken,  would  form  an  incon- 
venient precedent  for  the  future. 

But  the  delays  naturally  incident  to  deliberations  on  a  matter 
of  the  first  consequence,  the  road  to  which  had  not  been  made 
easy  by  the  antecedent  state  of  things,  having  hitherto  suspended 
any  definitive  resolutions  concerning  the  public  debt,  I  am  not 
now  in  a  situation  to  speak  explicitly  in  regard  to  the  measure 
you  have  undertaken.  I  can  only  say,  that  the  United  States 
will  stand  in  need  of  the  aid  of  loans  abroad,  and  that  I  expect 
the  requisite  provision  for  making  them  upon  solid  and  conse- 


jEt.  33.]  CABINET     PAPERS.  13 

quently  advantageous  terms,  will  shortly  be  concluded  upon ; 
in  which  case,  you  will  immediate] y  hear  from  me. 

P.  S.  You  have  herewith  triplicate  of  my  letter  of  the  7th  of 
April.  The  first  and  second  of  the  bills  therein  mentioned  have 
been  forwarded  by  the  British  packet  Antelope,  Captain  Curtiss, 
and  by  the  Catherine,  Captain  Bull,  bound  for  Amsterdam,  and 
I  hope  will  get  duly  to  hand. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

1790. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  respectfully  begs  leave  to  sub- 
mit to  the  President  of  the  United  States  copies  of  a  letter  from 
Messrs.  Wilhem  and  Jan  Willink,  and  Nicholas  and  Jacob  Van 
Staphorst  and  Hubbard,  of  the  25th  day  of  January  last,  and  of 
an  answer  thereto,  of  the  7th  day  of  May  following. 

The  President  will  perceive  that  the  last  mentioned  letter 
was  formed  upon  a  plan  not  to  discourage  the  progress  of  the 
loan  which  had  been  set  on  foot,  and  yet  to  leave  a  final  de- 
termination upon  it  open. 

The  undertaking  that  loan,  without  previous  authority,  was 
irregular,  and,  in  that  view,  exceptionable,  though  the  motives 
assigned  for  it  have  considerable  force  as  they  respect  the  credit 
of  the  United  States;  and  so  far  as  they  may  be  supposed  to 
have  really  operated,  afford  a  plausible  apology  for  the  measure. 

As  far,  however,  as  the  giving  a  sanction  to  it  might  serve 
as  a  precedent,  it  would  not  be  free  from  objection ;  for  it  cer- 
tainly would  consist  neither  with  the  dignity  nor  the  interest  of 
the  government  to  encourage  its  agents  in  the  practice  of  employ- 
ing its  credit  in  unauthorized  loans. 

But  as  an  acceptance  of  the  loan  may  be  accompanied  with  a 
prohibition  of  similar  attempts  hereafter,  which  would  doubtless 
have  the  effect  of  preventing  them,  it  is  submitted  as  the  opinion 
of  the  Secretary,  that  the  irregularity  of  the  proceeding  ought 


14  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEi.  33. 

not  to  preclude  such  acceptance,  if  the  loan  itself  be  in  other  re- 
spects desirable ;  and  the  following  considerations  appear  in  his 
judgment  to  render  it  so.  The  terms  are  probably  as  advanta- 
geous as  the  present  agitations  of  Europe,  which  must  necessa- 
rily create  an  unusual  demand  for  money,  authorize  an  expecta- 
tion of  obtaining. 

A  sum  of  one  hundred  and  seventy -two  thousand  dollars  will 
be  wanting  at  the  commencement  of  the  ensuing  year,  to  dis- 
charge the  interest  which  will  then  fall  due  on  the  Dutch  loans, 
which  it  is  essential  to  the  credit  of  the  United  States  should  be 
paid,  and  the  timely  payment  of  which  could  with  difficulty  be 
accomplished  in  any  other  way.  There  was  on  the  21st  of 
March  last  due  to  Spain,  for  principal  and  interest  of  her  ad- 
vances and  loans,  the  sum  of  two  hundred  and  forty  thousand 
and  eight  dollars  and  eighty-nine  cents ;  and  to  France  there 
will  be  due  at  the  end  of  the  present  year,  for  arrears  of  interest 
and  certain  instalments  of  the  principal  of  her  loans,  a  sum  little 
short  of  three  millions  eiefht  hundred  thousand  dollars. 

Powerful  considerations  of  different  kinds,  which  will  readily 
occur  to  the  mind  of  the  President,  urge  to  exertions  to  dis- 
charge these  demands.  The  Minister  of  the  Finances  of  France 
has,  through  the  charge  d'affaires  of  the  United  States  at  that 
court,  solicited  that  the  money  arising  from  the  loan  in  question, 
of  which  he  had  been  apprised,  might  be  applied  in  part  payment 
of  the  debt  due  to  that  nation.  Its  peculiar  situation  at  the  pre- 
sent juncture  contains  an  appeal  to  the  sensibility,  as  well  as  to 
the  policy  and  honor  of  this  country,  in  favor  of  that  requisition. 

If  these  reasons  appear  to  the  President  sufficient  to  induce 
his  sanction  to  the  loan  in  question,  it  will  remain  to  consider 
under  what  act  it  will  be  most  expedient  to  authorize  its  being 
made,  whether  that  of  the  4th  or  that  of  the  12th  of  the  present 
month,  or  whether  it  may  not  be  advisable  to  authorize  it  partly 
under  one  and  partly  under  the  other. 

It  is  conceived  that  the  business  may  easily  take  the  latter 
form,  if  deemed  eligible;  and  this  is  recommended  by  the  con- 
sideration that  it  will  contribute  in  a  degree  to  all  the  purposes 
which  require  to  be  promoted. 


JEt.  33.]  CABINET     PAPERS.  15 

If  two-thirds  of  the  sum  should  be  borrowed  on  account  of 
the  twelve  millions,  and  the  remaining  third  on  account  of  the 
two  millions,  the  next  half  year's  interest  in  Holland  may  be 
discharged,  the  arrears  of  interest  on  the  debt  due  to  Spain  may 
be  paid  off,  a  respectable  payment  may  be  made  to  France  as  a 
prelude  to  more  considerable  ones,  and  a  sum  of  consequence 
to  the  operation,  would  remain  towards  the  reduction  of  our 
debt  and  supporting  our  funds  in  conformity  to  the  intention  of 
the  last  mentioned  act. 

All  which  is  humbly  submitted. 

Alexander  Hamilton, 

Secretary  of  the  Treasury. 


Treasury  Department,  May  28,  1790. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  conceives  it  to  be  his  duty 
most  respectfully  to  represent  to  the  President  of  the  United 
States,  that  there  are,  in  his  judgment,  objections  of  a  very  seri- 
ous and  weighty  nature  to  the  resolutions  of  the  two  houses  of 
Congress  of  the  twenty-first  instant,  concerning  certain  arrears  of 
pay,  due  to  the  officers  and  soldiers  of  the  lines  of  Virginia  and 
North  Carolina. 

The  third  of  these  resolutions  directs,  that  in  cases  where 
payment  has  not  been  made  to  the  original  claimant  in  person,  or 
to  his  representative,  it  shall  be  made  to  the  original  claimant, 
or  to  such  person  or  persons  only  as  shall  produce  a  power  of 
attorney  duly  attested  by  tv:o  justices  of  the  peace  of  the  county, 
in  which  such  person  or  persons  reside,  authorizing  him  or  them 
to  receive  a  certain  specified  sum. 

By  the  laws  of  most  if  not  all  the  States,  claims  of  this  kind 
are  in  their  nature  assignable  for  a  valuable  consideration  ;  and 
the  assignor  may  constitute  the  assignee  his  attorney  or  agent  to 
receive  the  amount.  The  import  of  every  such  assignment  is  a 
contract,  express  or  implied,  on  the  part  of  the  assignor,  that  the 
assignee  shall  receive   the  sum   assigned  to   his  own  use.     In 


16  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  33, 

aking  it  no  precise  form  is  necessary,  but  any  instrument  com- 
petent to  conveying  with  clearness  and  precision  the  sense  of  the 
parties,  suffices ;  there  is  no  need  of  the  co-operation  of  any 
justice  of  the  peace,  or  other  magistrate  whatever. 

The  practice  of  the  Treasury  and  of  the  public  officers  in 
other  departments,  in  the  adjustment  and  satisfaction  of  claims 
upon  the  United  States,  has  uniformly  corresponded  with  the 
rules  of  that  law. 

A  regulation,  therefore,  having  a  retrospective  operation,  and 
prescribing  with  regard  to  past  transactions  new  and  unknown 
requisites,  by  which  the  admission  of  claims  is  to  be  guided,  is 
an  infraction  of  the  rights  of  individuals,  acquired  under  pre- 
existing laws,  and  a  contravention  of  the  public  faith,  pledged 
by  the  course  of  public  proceedings.  It  has  consequently  a  ten- 
dency not  less  unfriendly  to  public  credit,  than  to  the  security  of 
property. 

Such  is  the  regulation  contained  in  the  resolution  above 
referred  to.  It  defeats  all  previous  assignments  not  accompanied 
with  a  power  of  attorney  attested  by  two  justices  of  the  peace  of 
the  county  where  the  assignor  resides;  a  formality,  which,  for 
obvious  reasons,  cannot  be  presumed  to  have  attended  any  of  them, 
and  which  does  not  appear  to  have  been  observed  with  respect  to 
those  upon  which  application  for  payment  has  hitherto  been 
made. 

It  is  to  be  remarked  that  the  assignee  has  no  method  of  com- 
pelling the  assignor  to  perfect  the  transfer  by  a  new  instrument, 
in  conformity  to  the  rule  prescribed ;  if  even  the  existence  of 
such  a  power,  the  execution  of  which  would  involve  a  legal  con- 
troversy, could  be  a  satisfactory  cause  for  altering  by  a  new  law 
that  state  of  things,  which  antecedent  law  and  usage  had  estab- 
lished between  the  parties. 

It  is,  perhaps,  too  questionable,  whether  ah  assignee,  however 
equitable  his  pretensions  were,  could,  under  the  operation  of  the 
provision  which  has  been  recited,  have  any  remedy  whatever 
for  the  recovery  of  the  money  or  value  which  he  may  have  paid 
to  the  assignor. 

It  is  not  certain  that  a  legislative  act,  decreeing  payment  to  a 


jEt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  17 

different  person,  would  not  be  a  legal  bar ;  but  if  the  existence 
of  such  a  remedy  were  certain,  it  would  be  but  a  very  inconclu- 
sive consideration.  The  assignment  may  have  been  a  security 
for  a  precarious  or  desperate  debt,  which  security  will  be  wrested 
from  the  assignee,  or  it  may  have  been  a  composition  between  an 
insolvent  debtor  and  his  creditor,  and  the  only  resource  of  the 
latter :  or  the  assignor  may  be  absent  and  incapable  either  of 
benefiting  by  the  provision,  or  of  being  called  to  an  account. 
And  in  every  case  the  assignee  would  be  left  to  the  casualty  of 
the  ability  of  the  assignor  to  repay ;  to  the  perplexity,  trouble, 
and  expense  of  a  suit  at  law.  In  respect  to  the  soldiers,  the 
presumption  would  be,  in  the  greater  number  of  cases,  that  the 
pursuit  of  redress  would  be  worse  than  acquiescence  in  the  loss. 
To  vary  the  risks  of  parties,  to  supersede  the  contracts  between 
them;  to  turn  over  a  creditor  without  his  consent  from  one 
debtor  to  another,  to  take  away  a  right  to  a  specific  thing,  leaving 
only  the  chance  of  a  remedy  for  retribution,  are  not  less  positive 
violations  of  property  than  a  direct  confiscation. 

It  appears  from  the  debates  in  the  House  of  Eepresentatives, 
and  it  may  be  inferred  from  the  nature  of  the  proceeding,  that  a 
suggestion  of  fraud  has  been  the  occasion  of  it.  Fraud  is  cer- 
tainly a  good  objection  to  any  contract,  and  where  it  is  properly 
ascertained  invalidates  it.  But  the  power  of  ascertaining  it  is 
the  peculiar  province  of  the  Judiciary  Department.  The  princi- 
ples of  good  government  conspire  with  those  of  justice  to  place 
it  there.  'Tis  there  only  that  such  an  investigation  of  the  fact 
can  be  had,  as  ought  to  precede  a  decision.  'Tis  there  only  the 
parties  can  be  heard,  and  evidence  on  both  sides  produced ;  with- 
out which  surmise  must  be  substituted  to  proofi  and  conjecture  to 
fact. 

This,  then,  is  the  dilemma  incident  to  legislative  interference. 
Either  the  legislature  must  erect  itself  into  a  court  of  justice,  and 
determine  each  case  upon  its  own  merits,  after  a  full  hearing  of 
the  allegations  and  proofs  of  the  parties ;  or  it  must  proceed 
upon  vague  suggestions,  loose  reports,  or  at  best  upon  partial 
and  problematical  testimony,  to  condemn  in  the  gross  and  in  the 
dark,  the  fairest  and  most  unexceptionable  claims,  as  well  as 
D  2 


18  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  33. 

those  which  may  happen  to  be  fraudulent  and  exceptionable. 
The  first  would  be  an  usurpation  of  the  judiciary  authority,  the 
last  is  at  variance  with  the  rules  of  property,  the  dictates  of 
equity,  and  the  maxims  of  good  government. 

All  admit  the  truth  of  these  positions  as  general  rules.  But 
when  a  departure  from  it  is  advocated  for  any  particular  purpose, 
it  is  usually  alleged  that  there  are  exceptions  to  it,  that  there  are 
certain  extraordinary  cases,  in  which  the  public  good  demands 
and  justifies  an  extraordinary  interposition  of  the  legislature. 

This  doctrine  in  relation  to  extraordinary  cases  is  not  to  be 
denied ;  but  it  is  highly  important  that  the  nature  of  those  cases 
should  be  carefully  distinguished. 

It  is  evident  that  every  such  interposition,  deviating  from  the 
usual  course  of  law  and  justice,  and  infringing  the  established 
rules  of  property,  which  ought  as  far  as  possible  to  be  held  sacred 
and  inviolable,  is  an  overleaping  of  the  ordinary  and  regular 
bounds  of  legislative  discretion ;  and  is  in  the  nature  of  a  resort 
to  first  principles.  Nothing,  therefore,  but  some  urgent  public 
necessity,  some  impending  national  calamity,  something  that 
threatens  direct  and  general  mischief  to  the  society,  for  which 
there  is  no  adequate  redress  in  the  established  course  of  things, 
can,  it  is  presumed,  be  a  sufficient  cause,  for  the  employment  of 
so  extraordinary  a  remedy.  An  accommodation  to  the  interests 
of  a  small  part  of  the  community,  in  a  case  of  inconsiderable 
magnitude,  on  a  national  scale,  cannot,  in  the  judgment  of  the 
Secretary,  be  entitled  to  that  character. 

If  partial  inconveniences  and  hardships  occasion  legislative 
interferences  in  private  contract,  the  intercourses  of  business 
become  uncertain ;  the  security  of  property  is  lessened,  the  confi- 
dence in  government  destroyed  or  weakened. 

The  Constitution  of  the  United  States  interdicts  the  States 
individually,  from  passing  any  law  impairing  the  obligation  of 
contracts.  This,  to  the  more  enlightened  part  of  the  community, 
was  not  one  of  the  least  recommendations  of  that  Constitution. 
The  too  frequent  intermeddlings  of  the  State  legislatures,  in 
relation  to  private  contracts,  were  extensively  felt,  and  seriously 
lamented ;  and  a  constitution  which  promises  a  preventive,  was, 


jEt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  19 

by  those  who  felt  and  thought  in  that  manner,  eagerly  embraced. 
Precedents  of  similar  interferences  by  the  legislature  of  the 
United  States,  cannot  fail  to  alarm  the  same  class  of  persons,  and 
at  the  same  time  to  diminish  the  respect  of  the  State  legislatures 
for  the  interdiction  alluded  to.  The  example  of  the  national 
government  in  a  matter  of  this  kind,  may  be  expected  to  have  a 
far  more  powerful  influence  than  the  precepts  of  the  Constitution. 

The  present  case  is  that  of  a  particular  class  of  men,  highly 
meritorious  indeed,  but  inconsiderable  in  point  of  numbers,  and 
the  whole  of  the  property  in  question  less  than  fifty  thousand 
dollars,  which,  when  distributed  among  those  who  are  principally 
to  be  benefited  by  the  regulation,  does  not  exceed  twenty -five 
dollars  per  man.  The  relief  of  the  individuals,  who  may  have 
been  subjects  of  imposition,  in  so  limited  a  case,  seems  a  very 
inadequate  cause  for  a  measure  which  breaks  in  upon  those  great 
principles,  that  constitute  the  foundations  of  property. 

The  eligibility  of  the  measure  is  more  doubtful,  as  the  courts 
of  justice  are  competent  to  the  relief  which  it  is  the  object  of  the 
resolution  to  give,  as  far  as  the  fact  of  fraud  or  imposition,  or 
undue  advantage,  can  be  substantiated.  It  is  true  that  many  of 
the  individuals  would  probably  not  be  in  a  condition  to  seek  that 
relief  from  their  own  resources ;  but  the  aid  of  government  may 
in  this  respect  be  afforded,  in  a  way  which  will  be  consistent  with 
the  established  order  of  things.  The  Secretary,  from  the  infor- 
mation communicated  to  him,  believing  it  to  be  probable  that 
undue  advantages  had  been  taken,  had  conceived  a  plan  for  the 
purpose,  of  the  following  kind :  That  measures  should  be  adopt- 
ed for  procuring  the  appointment  of  an  agent  or  attorney,  by  the 
original  claimants,  or  if  deceased,  by  their  legal  representatives ; 
that  payment  of  the  money  should  be  deferred  until  this  had 
been  effected ;  that  the  amount  of  the  sums  due  should  then  be 
placed  in  the  hands  of  the  proper  officer  for  the  purpose  of  pay- 
ment ;  that  a  demand  should  be  made  upon  him,  on  behalf  of 
the  original  claimants,  by  their  agent,  and  as  a  like  demand 
would  of  course  be  made  by  the  assignees,  that  the  parties 
should  be  informed  that  a  legal  adjudication  was  necessary  to  as- 
certain the  validity  of  their  respective  pretensions ;  and  that  in 


20  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  33. 

this  state  of  things  the  Attorney  General  should  be  directed  either 
to  prosecute  or  defend  for  the  original  claimants,  as  should  ap- 
pear to  him  most  likely  to  insure  justice.  A  step  of  this  kind 
appeared  to  the  Secretary  to  be  warranted  and  dictated,  as  well 
by  a  due  regard  to  the  defenceless  situation  of  the  parties  who 
may  have  been  prejudiced,  as  by  considerations  resulting  from 
the  propriety  of  discouraging  similar  practices. 

It  is  with  reluctance  and  pain  the  Secretary  is  induced  to 
make  this  representation  to  the  President.  The  respect  which  he 
entertains  for  the  decisions  of  the  two  houses  of  Congress ;  the 
respect  which  is  due  to  those  movements  of  humanity  towards 
the  supposed  sufferers,  and  of  indignation  against  those  who  are 
presumed  to  have  taken  an  undue  advantage ;  an  unwillingness 
to  present  before  the  mind  of  the  President,  especially  at  the 
present  juncture,  considerations  which  may  occasion  perplexity 
or  anxiety,  concur  in  rendering  the  task  peculiarly  unwelcome. 
Yet  the  principles  which  appear  to  the  Secretary  to  have  been 
invaded,  in  this  instance,  are,  in  his  estimation,  of  such  funda- 
mental consequence  to  the  stability,  character,  and  success  of  the 
government,  and  at  the  same  time  so  immediately  interesting  to 
the  department  intrusted  to  his  care,  that  he  feels  himself  irre- 
sistibly impelled  by  a  sense  df  duty,  as  well  to  the  Chief  Magis- 
trate as  to  the  community,  to  make  a  full  communication  of  his 
impressions  and  reflections. 

He  is  sensible  that  an  inflexible  adherence  to  the  principles 
contended  for  must  often  have  an  air  of  rigor,  and  will  some- 
times be  productive  of  particular  inconveniences.      The  general 
rules  of  property,  and  all  those  general  rules  which  form  the 
links  of  society,  frequently  involve  in  their  ordinary  operation, 
particular  hardships  and  injuries ;  yet  the  public  order  and  the 
general  happiness  require  a  steady  conformity  to  them.     It  is 
perhaps  always  better  that  partial  evils  should  be  submitted  to, 
than  that  principles  should  be  violated.      In  the  infancy  of  our 
present  government,  peculiar  strictness  and  circumspection  are 
called  for,  by  the  too  numerous  instances  of  relaxations,  which 
in  other  quarters,  and  on  other  occasions,  have  discredited  our 
public  measures. 


JEt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  2  1 

The  Secretary  is  not  unaware  of  the  delicacy  of  an  opposition 
to  the  resolutions  in  question,  by  the  President,  should  his 
view  of  the  subject  coincide  with  that  of  the  Secretary ;  yet  he 
begs  leave  on  this  point  to  remark,  that  such  an  opposition  in  a 
case,  in  which  a  small  part  of  the  community  only  is  directly 
concerned,  would  be  less  likely  to  have  disagreeable  consequences 
than  in  one  which  should  affect  a  very  considerable  portion  of 
it ;  and  the  prevention  of  an  ill  precedent,  if  it  be  truly  one, 
may  prove  a  decisive  obstacle  to  other  cases  of  greater  extent 
and  magnitude,  and  of  a  more  critical  tendency.  If  the  objec- 
tions are  as  solid  as  they  appear  to  the  Secretary  to  be,  he  trusts 
they  cannot  fail,  with  the  sanction  of  the  President,  to  engage 
the  approbation,  not  only  of  the  generality  of  considerate  men, 
but  of  the  community  at  large.  And  if  momentary  dissatisfac- 
tion should  happen  to  exist  in  particular  parts  of  the  Union,  it 
is  to  be  hoped  it  will  be  speedily  removed  by  the  measures 
which,  under  the  direction  of  the  President,  may  be  pursued,  for 
obtaining  the  same  end  in  an  unexceptionable  mode ;  for  the  s  lte- 
cess  of  which  the  Secretary  will  not  fail  to  exert  his  most  zeal- 
ous endeavors. 

It  is  proper  that  the  President  should  be  informed,  that  if  ob- 
jections should  be  made  by  him,  they  will  in  all  probability  be 
effectual ;  as  the  resolutions  passed  in  the  Senate  with  no  greater 
majority  than  twelve  to  ten. 

The  Secretary  feels  an  unreserved  confidence  in  the  justice 
and  magnanimity  of  the  President ;  that  whatever  may  be  his 
view  of  the  subject,  he  will  at  least  impute  the  present  represen- 
tation to  an  earnest  and  anxious  conviction  in  the  mind  of  the 
Secretary,  of  the  truth  and  importance  of  the  principles  which 
he  supports,  and  of  the  inauspicious  tendency  of  the  measure  to 
which  he  objects,  co-operating  with  a  pure  and  ardent  zeal  for 
the  public  good,  and  for  the  honor  and  prosperity  of  the  admin- 
istration of  the  Chief  Magistrate. 


22  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  33. 


HAMILTON   TO   SHOKT. 

Treasury  Department,  May  29,  1790. 

Sir: 

I  am  honored  with  your  letters  of  the  28th  and  30th,  which 
did  not  come  to  my  hands  till  the  27th  instant. 

The  conduct  you  have  prescribed  to  yourself  in  regard  to 
the  negotiations  concerning  the  debt  of  the  United  States,  ap- 
pears to  be  very  prudent  and  judicious,  and  such  as  will  give  the 
United  States  a  convenient  election  of  the  measures  to  be  pur- 
sued in  future. 

Previous  to  the  receipt  of  your  favor,  I  had  written  to  the  com- 
missioners upon  the  business  of  their  letter  of  the  25th  of  Janu- 
ary, a  duplicate  of  which  you  were  so  good  as  to  inclose  to  me. 
Considering  their  zeal,  exertions,  and  general  deportment  on 
former  occasions,  as  entitling  them  to  the  regard  of  government, 
I  wrote  them  in  a  manner  corresponding  with  those  impressions, 
yet  so  as  to  leave  the  United  States  at  full  liberty  in  their  final 
determinations  on  the  late  transaction,  and  particularly  guarding 
against  the  ill  consequences  that  would  result  from  establishing 
a  precedent  of  this  nature.  It  is  possible,  when  our  arrange- 
ments shall  be  completed,  that  the  United  States  may  find  it 
convenient  to  confirm  this  transaction,  but  in  the  mean  time  it 
appeared  most  advisable  to  treat  it  as  I  have  mentioned. 

I  am  to  acknowledge  my  obligation  to  you  for  the  return  of 
the  vessels  and  cargoes  from  the  United  States  that  have  arrived 
in  the  ports  of  France.  It  will  be  on  many  occasions  a  very 
useful  document. 

With  cordial  satisfaction,  sir,  I  reciprocate  your  congratula- 
tions on  the  late  happy  change  in  the  situation  of  our  country, 
and  I  feel  great  pleasure  in  receiving  information  so  authentic 
that  it  has  influenced  favorably  the  dispositions  of  the  European* 
nations.  A  prosecution  of  the  same  just  and  salutary  principles, 
it  may  be  reasonably  hoped,  will  give  permanency  to  our  present 
advantages,  and  secure  a  larger  portion  of  those  benefits  which 
the  United  States  are  qualified  to  produce. 


,Et.33.]  cabinet    papers.  23 


JEFFERSON"  TO  HAMILTON. 

June  12,  1790. 
Thomas  Jefferson  has  the  honor  to  send  to  the  Secretary  of 
the  Treasury  a  rough  draft  of  a  Report  on  the  subject  of  meas- 
ures, weights,  and  coins,  in  order  that  the  Secretary  may  be  able 
to  accommodate  his  plan  of  a  Mint  to  the  very  small  alteration 
of  the  money  unit  proposed  in  this  Eeport. 


HAMILTON  TO  JEFFERSON. 

June  13,  1790. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  has  the  honor  to  acknowledge 
the  reception  of  the  Report  of  the  Secretary  of  State  on  the  sub- 
ject of  measures,  weights,  and  coins.  There  is  no  view  which  he 
has  taken  of  the  matter  which  stands  opposed  to  the  alteration  of 
the  money  unit  as  at  present  contemplated  by  the  regulations  of 
Congress,  either  in  the  way  suggested  in  the  Report  or  in  that 
mentioned  in  the  note  of  yesterday.  And  there  are  certainly 
strong  reasons  to  render  a  correspondency  desirable.  The  idea 
of  a  general  standard  among  nations,  as  in  the  proposal  of  the 
Bishop  d' Autun,  seems  full  of  convenience  and  order. 


HAMILTON  TO   WASHINGTON. 

June  18,  1790. 
The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  having,  in  consequence  of  the 
Act  for  the  establishment  and  support  of  light-houses,  directed 
his  inquiries  to  that  object,  begs  leave  most  respectfully  to  sub- 
mit the  result  to  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America. 


24  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mi.  33. 

New  Hampshire. 

In  this  State  is  only  one  light-house,  situated  on  a  point  of 
land  on  the  island  of  Newcastle,  three  miles  from  Portsmouth, 
without  the  walls  of  the  fort  which  commands  the  entrance  of  the 
Piscataqua  river.  It  is  under  the  superintendence  of  a  commis- 
sary, who  is  captain  of  the  fort ;  and  is,  at  present,  in  good  repair. 
The  annual  expense  of  maintaining  it  is  estimated  at  $217  20. 

Massachusetts. 

In  this  State  are  six  light-houses,  at  the  following  places,  viz. : 

Boston, 
Cape  Ann, 
Plvmouth, 
Plum  Island, 
Nantucket, 
Portland. 

The  whole  expense  attending  the  support  of  these 
establishments,  including  the  officers'  salaries,  is 

'     estimated  at $5736  00 

The  officers  appointed  for  their  management  are,  at 
Boston,  Captain  Thomas  Knox,  with  an  annual 

salary  of $400  00 

At  Cape  Ann,  Mr.  Samuel  Houston,  with  ditto,  .       400  00 

At  Plymouth,  the  widow  of  the  late  General  Thomas, 

with  ditto, 233  50 

At  Plum  Island,  Mr.  Lowell,  with  ditto,     ...       220  00 
At  Nantucket,  Mr.  Paul  Pinkham,  with  ditto,    .         .       250  00 

At  Portland,  the  building  not  being  perfectly  completed,  no 
person  is  yet  appointed  to  superintend  it. 

Exclusive  of  the  above,  there  is  an  officer  styled  a  commis- 
sary, who  has  the  charge  of  supplying  the  whole.     This  office  is 

now  filled  by  Mr. Divens,  but  what  allowance  he  has  for 

executing  it,  the  Secretary  has  not  yet  ascertained. 

When  the  building  at  Portland  is  completed,  the  expense  of 
maintaining  it,  and  the  allowance  of  the  commissary  superintend- 


Mt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  25 

ing  the  whole,  will  probably  make  the  total  amount  of  the  light- 
house establishment  in  the  State  of  Massachusetts  about  $6000 
per  annum. 

Connecticut. 

In  this  State  there  is  only  one  light-house,  which  is  situated 
at  the  port  of  New  London ;  it  is  built  of  stone,  and  has  lately 
been  repaired.  In  the  month  of  May  last,  the  General  Assembly 
ordered  some  buoys  to  be  fixed  in  the  harbor  for  the  safety  of 
the  navigation,  but  nothing  has  been  yet  done  in  consequence  of 
the  Act. 

The  annual  expense  of  this  establishment  is  estimated  at  §450. 

At  New  Haven  there  is  a  pier  in  the  harbor,  which  is  private 
property,  and  a  buoy  at  the  entrance ;  two  other  buoys  are  judged 
necessary  for  the  safety  of  the  navigation. 

New-  York. 

At  New- York  there  is  a  light-house,  and  was  lately  a  beacon 
at  Sandy  Hook,  the  annual  expense  of  which  (exclusive  of  an 
allowance  to  the  wardens  of  the  port)  is  about  $1500. 

The  number  of  the  wardens  is  four,  who  have  (besides  other 
duties  incident  to  their  office)  the  charge  of  supplying  and  super- 
intending this  establishment.  They  have  each  an  allowance  of 
one  dollar  and  a  half  per  day  when  employed  in  visiting  the 
works,  exclusive  of  their  provisions,  &c.  The  master  warden  is 
Mr.  Thomas  Eandall.  The  beacon  has  been  recently  blown 
down,  and  will  require  to  be  replaced ;  which  can  be  done  at  an 
inconsiderable  expense. 

In  New-Jersey. 
There  is  no  light-house,  nor  any  establishment  of  that  nature. 

In  Pennsylvania. 

There  is  a  light-house  at  Cape  Henlopen,  and  several  buoys, 
beacons,  and  piers,  for  the  security  of  the  navigation  on  the  bay 
and  river  Delaware.  The  annual  expense  of  these  establish- 
ments, which  have  been  under  the  care  of  a  board  of  wardens 


26  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  33. 

of  the  port  of  Philadelphia,  is  estimated  by  the  present  master 
warden  at  $4133. 

This  office  is  now  filled  by  Capt.  William  Allibone. 

In  Delaware. 

There  is  no  light-house  nor  other  establishment  of  this  nature, 
those  on  the  bay  and  river  Delaware  aoswering  for  that  State. 

In  Maryland  and  Virginia. 

There  are  at  present  no  light-houses,  nor  any  beacons,  buoys, 
&c,  for  the  security  of  vessels  navigating  the  Bay  of  Chesapeake. 
In  consequence  of  certain  acts  of  the  legislatures  of  these  States, 
styled  the  compact  laws,  considerable  sums  have  been  collected 
heretofore,  by  a  tax  upon  tonnage,  for  raising  a  fund  for  the 
purpose  of  building  light-houses,  &c,  at  Cape  Henry.  The  Com- 
missioners appointed  by  the  two  States  for  superintending  this 
work,  expended  on  it  previous  to  the  war,  in  collecting  materi- 
als, &c,  at  between  7  and  £8000,  Virginia  currency ;  but  it  is 
presumed  that  no  considerable  benefit  can  be  now  derived  from 
this  expenditure.  The  present  expense  for  erecting  this  light- 
house, &c.  (as  estimated  by  one  of  the  commissioners  appointed 
on  the  part  of  the  State  of  Virginia)  is  computed  at  $34,076  66. 

The  annual  expense  of  maintaining  it  would  probably  not 
exceed  $2000. 

In  South  Carolina. 

There  is  one  light-house,  and  the  necessary  buoys  and  beacons, 
for  the  security  of  the  navigation  into  that  harbor.  The  light- 
house is  in  good  condition,  but  the  buoys  and  beacons  want  re- 
pair. The  annual  expense  attending  this  establishment  is  com- 
puted at  $1457. 

The  officer  having  charge  of  them  at  present,  is  Mr.  Thomas 
Hollingsby,  who  is  recommended  by  the  commissioners  of  pilot- 
age for  that  harbor  as  a  person  perfectly  qualified  for  the  busi- 
ness.    His  present  salary  is  $257  14. 


Kt.  33.]  CABINET     PAPERS.  27 

Georgia. 

No  information  has  been  received  from  that  State  on  this 
subject,  although  the  same  inquiries  have  been  made  there  as  in 
other  States. 

To  this  statement  of  the  substance  of  the  information,  which 
he  has  received  respecting  the  several  establishments  in  ques- 
tion, the  Secretary  begs  leave  to  add,  that  most  of  the  persons 
who  have  been  singly  charged  with  the  care  of  any  of  them, 
have  been  recommended  as  proper  to  be  continued,  and  that  no 
objection  has  been  made  to  any;  and  that  in  the  two  instances 
in  which  that  case  has  been  committed  to  boards  (as  in  the  cases 
of  Pennsylvania  and  New-York),  the  principals  of  those  boards 
are  well  recommended. 

It  appears  to  the  Secretary,  that  it  will  be  expedient  to  con- 
form to  the  plan,  which  exists  in  Massachusetts,  and  to  substi- 
tute individuals  to  boards,  where  the  business  has  been  commit- 
ted to  them  ;  and  he  thinks  it  probable  that  a  reappointment  of 
the  persons  who  have  been  heretofore  employed,  will  be  most 
likely  to  produce  an  eligible  choice,  and  to  give  satisfaction ; 
and  also  that  the  allowances  heretofore  made  (as  far  as  they  ap- 
ply) will  be  a  good  standard  for  those  to  be  established.  As, 
however,  it  is  the  intention  of  the  legislature  that  the  expendi- 
tures for  these  establishments  should  be  made  by  contract,  which, 
from  the  nature  of  the  objects,  must  generally  be  conducted  on 
the  spot,  it  seems  advisable,  for  this  and  other  reasons  which  will 
occur,  that  in  the  distant  States  there  should  be  some  other  per- 
sons than  the  immediate  superintendents  of  the  light-houses  con- 
nected with  them  in  the  business. 

As  a  temporary  arrangement  for  this  purpose,  the  Secretary 
would  propose,  that  the  particular  superintendents  in  the  several 
States,  except  Pennsylvania  and  New- York,  should  be  put  under 
the  direction  of  the  collectors  of  the  principal  ports : 

In  New-Hampshire,  of  the  Collector  of  Portsmouth. 

In  Massachusetts,  of  the  Collector  of  Boston. 

In  Connecticut,  of  the  Collector  of  New  London. 

In  South  Carolina,  of  the  Collector  of  Charleston. 


28  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  33. 

Georgia  is  omitted,  from  the  want  of  information. 

Pennsylvania  and  New- York  are  excepted,  because  their 
contiguity  to  the  seat  of  government  will  place  the  particular 
superintendents  sufficiently  under  the  eye  of  the  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury. 

Pursuant  to  the  foregoing  ideas,  the  Secretary  submits  the 
following  nominations. 

At  Boston,  Capt.  Thomas  Knox,  with  a  salary  of     $400  per  an. 
At  Cape  Ann,  Mr.  Samuel  Houston,  with  do.  of     .     400 
At  Plymouth,  the  widow  of  the  late  General  Thomas, 
with  do.  of        ..... 

At  Plum  Island,  Mr. Lowell,  with  do.  of 

At  Nantucket,  Mr.  Paul  Pinkham,  with  do.  of 
At  New  London  (a  person  to  be  nominated  by  Gen- 
eral Huntington),  with  do.  of    . 
At  New- York,  Mr.  Thomas  Eandall,  with  do.  of 
At  Philadelphia,  Mr.  William  Allibone,  with  do.  of    500 
At  Charleston,  South  Carolina,  Mr.  Thomas  Hol- 
lingby,  with  do.  of    . 


240 
220 
250 

100 

400 


260 


u 

a 
a 

u 

« 
u 
(( 

u 


No  account  having  been  received  at  the  Treasury  of  the  com- 
pletion of  the  light-house  erecting  at  Portland  in  Massachusetts, 
the  Secretary  has  not  included  it  in  the  present  nomination ;  he 
has  also  omitted  the  port  of  New  Haven  in  Connecticut,  as  the 
pier  and  buoys  in  that  harbor  appear  to  be  private  property,  not 
that  of  the  State. 

In  the  States  of  Virginia  and  Maryland,  it  appears  from  what 
is  above  stated  in  this  Eeport,  that  there  are  no  establishments 
in  those  States,  although  materials  have  formerly  been  collected 
for  building  a  light-house  at  Cape  Henry.  As  the  Act  of  the 
seventh  of  August  last  relative  to  the  support  of  light-houses, 
&c,  renders  it  necessary  to  obtain  a  cession  of  a  proper  place 
near  the  entrance  of  the  Chesapeake  previous  to  the  erection  of 
a  light-house  in  that  quarter,  the  Secretary  submits  it  to  the  con- 
sideration of  the  President,  whether  it  would  not  be  advisable  to 
determine  on  the  place  best  adapted  for  such  an  establishment, 
in  order  that  an  application  may  be  made  to  the  supreme  exe- 


>Et.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  29 

cutive  of  the  State  "under  whose  jurisdiction  the  same  may  be, 
for  a  cession  of  the  same. 

It  will  be  observed,  that  the  Secretary  has  not  mentioned  a 
person  for  taking  charge  of  the  light-house  at  New  Hampshire. 
The  present  commissary  (as  before  stated)  is  the  captain  of  the 
fort,  near  whose  walls  the  light-house  is  situated.  The  collector 
of  the  port  of  Portsmouth  is  of  opinion  that  the  care  of  it  should 
be  intrusted  to  the  captain  of  the  fort,  but  has  said  nothing  as  to 
the  qualifications  of  Mr.  Clap  for  this  office ;  or  of  the  allowance 
made  to  him  on  this  account  by  the  State :  the  Secretary  there- 
fore submits  the  propriety  of  deferring  any  appointment  for  this 
place  till  further  inquiry  is  made  on  these  points,  to  which  im- 
mediate attention  will  be  paid. 

With  respect  to  the  duties  of  the  general  superintendents,  as 
the  Act  contemplates  the  maintaining,  supporting,  and  erecting 
the  establishments  to  be  by  contract,  the  Secretary  is  of  opinion, 
that  in  all  cases  where  the  nature  of  the  service  or  supply  will 
possibly  admit  of  the  same  being  so  done  with  advantage  to  the 
public,  the  superintendents  should  be  authorized  to  enter  into  a 
contract  for  the  same,  subject  to  the  ratification  of  the  Secretary 
of  the  Treasury,  with  the  approbation  of  the  President;  and 
where  the  same  cannot  be  so  done,  that  the  general  superintend- 
ents shall  direct  the  execution  of  the  necessary  business  at  as  low 
a  rate  as  possible. 

This  line  the  Secretary  is  induced  to  suggest,  as  he  finds,  on 
an  investigation  of  the  different  objects  of  expenditure  accruing 
under  these  establishments,  that  cases  will  sometimes  occur 
(especially  in  the  repair  of  works  and  replacing  buoys,  &c.) 
where  it  will  not  be  possible  to  establish  any  principles  of  calcu- 
lation for  doing  the  same  by  contract ;  in  which  case  the  party 
contracting  (should  such  be  found)  would  either  demand  an 
extravagant  allowance  for  securing  him  against  the  possibility  of 
risk,  or  endeavor  to  avoid  the  same  by  executing  his  contract  in 
an  inefficient  manner. 

All  which  is  respectfully  submitted. 

Alexander  Hamilton, 

Secretary  of  the  Treasury. 


30  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  33. 


HAMILTON   TO   WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  June  18,  1790. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  has  the  honor  respectfully  to 
submit  to  the  President  of  the  United  States,  for  his  considera- 
tion, a  contract  (with  the  letter  that  accompanied  it)  between 
William  Allibone,  superintendent  of  the  light-house,  beacons, 
buoys,  and  public  piers  on  the  river  and  bay  of  Delaware,  and 
Abraham  Hargis,  keeper  of  the  light-house  at  Cape  Henlopen. 
The  yearly  salary  of  £130,  although  it  appears  high,  is  found, 
on  examination,  the  same  as  was  allowed  to  this  person  by  the 
State  of  Pennsylvania.  The  allowance  of  £13  for  the  several 
supplies  and  services  specified,  does  not  appear  unreasonable. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  June  21,  1790. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  has  the  honor  respectfully  to 
submit  to  the  President  of  the  United  States,  for  his  approbation, 
the  inclosed  contract  for  timber,  boards,  nails,  and  workmanship, 
for  a  beacon  to  be  placed  near  the  light-house  on  Sandy  Hook ; 
the  terms  of  which,  he  begs  leave  to  observe,  are,  in  his  opinion, 
favorable  to  the  United  States. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Memorandum  of  the  substance  of  a  Communication  made  on  Thurs- 
day, the  Eighth  of  July,  1790,  to  the  Subscriber,  by  Major 
Beckwith,  as  by  direction  of  Lord  Dorchester. 

Major  Beckwith  began  by  stating  that  Lord  Dorchester  had 
directed  him  to  make  his  acknowledgments  for  the  politeness 


^t.  33.]  CABINET     PAPERS.  31 

which  had  been  shown  in  respect  to  the  desire  he  had  intimated 
to  pass  by  New-York  in  his  way  to  England  ;  adding  that  the 
prospect  of  a  war  between  Great  Britain  and  Spain  would  pre- 
vent or  defer  the  execution  of  his  intention  in  that  particular. 
He  next  proceeded  to  observe,  that  Lord  Dorchester  had  been 
informed  of  a  negotiation  commenced  on  the  other  side  of  the 
water,  through  the  agency  of  Mr.  Morris,  mentioning,  as  the 
subscriber  understood,  principally  by  way  of  proof  of  Lord  Dor- 
chester's knowledge  of  the  transaction,  that  Mr.  Morris  had  not 
produced  any  regular  credentials,  but  merely  a  letter  from  the 
President  directed  to  himself;  that  some  delays  had  intervened, 
partly  on  account  of  Mr.  Morris's  absence  on  a  trip  to  Holland, 
as  was  understood  ;  and  that  it  was  not  improbable  these  delays 
and  some  other  circumstances,  may  have  impressed  Mr.  Morris 
with  an  idea  of  backwardness  on  the  part  of  the  British  ministry. 
That  his  lordship,  however,  had  directed  him  to  say  that  an  in- 
ference of  this  sort  would  not,  m  his  opinion,  be  well  founded, 
as  he  had  reason  to  believe  that  the  cabinet  of  Great  Britain 
entertained  a  disposition  not  only  towards  a  friendly  intercourse, 
but  towards  an  alliance  with  the  United  States.  Major  Beck- 
with  then  proceeded  to  speak  of  the  particular  cause  of  the  ex- 
pected rupture  between  Spain  and  Britain,  observing  it  was  one 
in  which  all  commercial  nations  must  be  supposed  to  favor  the 
views  of  Great  Britain.  That  it  was  therefore  presumed,  should 
a  war  take  place,  that  the  United  States  would  find  it  to  be 
their  interest  to  take  part  with  Great  Britain  rather  than  with 
Spain. 

Major  Beckwith  concluded  with  producing  a  letter,  signed 
"  Dorchester,"  which  letter  contained  ideas  similar  to  those  he 
had  expressed,  though  in  more  guarded  terms,  and  without  any 
allusion  to  instructions  from  the  British  cabinet.  This  letter,  it 
is  now  recollected,  hints  at  the  non-execution  of  the  treaty  of 
peace  on  our  part. 

On  the  subscriber  remarking  the  circumstance  that  this  letter 
seemed  to  speak  only  the  sentiments  of  his  lordship,  Major 
Beckwrith  replied,  that  whatever  reasons  there  might  be  for  that 
course  of  proceeding  in  the  present  stage  of  the  business,  it  was 


32  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  33. 

to  be  presumed  that  his  lordship  knew  too  well  the  consequence 
of  such  a  step,  to  have  taken  it  without  a  previous  knowledge  of 
the  intentions  of  the  cabinet. 

Major  Beckwith  afterwards  mentioned  that  Lord  Dorchester 
had  heard  with  great  concern  of  some  depredations  committed 
by  some  Indians  on  our  western  frontier.  That  he  wished  it  to 
be  believed  that  nothing  of  this  kind  had  received  the  least 
countenance  from  him.  That,  on  the  contrary,  he  had  taken 
every  proper  opportunity  of  inculcating  upon  the  Indians  a 
pacific  disposition  towards  us  ;  and  that  as  soon  as  he  had  heard 
of  the  outrages  lately  committed,  he  had  sent  a  message  to  en- 
deavor to  prevent  them.  That  his  lordship  had  understood  that 
the  Indians  alluded  to  were  a  banditti,  composed  chiefly  or  in 
a  great  part  of  Creeks  or  Cherokees,  over  whom  he  had  no  in- 
fluence, intimating  at  the  same  time  that  these  tribes  were  sup- 
posed to  be  in  connection  with  the  Spaniards. 

He  stated,  in  the  next  place,  that  his  lordship  had  been  in- 
formed that  a  Captain  Hait,  in  our  service,  and  a  Mr.  Nimble, 
and  indeed  some  persons  in  the  treaty  at  Fort  Harman,  had 
thrown  out  menaces  with  regard  to  the  posts  on  the  frontier,  and 
had  otherwise  held  very  intemperate  language;  which,  how- 
ever, his  lordship  considered  rather  as  effusions  of  individual 
feelings,  than  as  the  effects  of  any  instruction  from  authority. 

A.  Hamilton. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

July  22,  1790. 

On  Thursday,  the  22d  instant,  I  had  a  second  interview  with 
Major  Beckwith,  in  which  I  spoke  to  him  nearly  as  follows. 

I  have  made  the  proper  use  of  what  you  said  to  me  at  our 
last  interview. 

As  to  what  regards  the  objects  of  a  general  nature  mentioned 
by  you,  though  your  authority  for  the  purpose  from  Lord  Dor- 
chester is  out  of  the  question,  and  though  I  presume  from  his 


JEt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  33 

lordship's  station  and  character,  and  the  knowledge  he  appears 
to  have  of  what  is  passing  on  the  other  side  of  the  water,  with 
regard  to  Mr.  Morris,  that  the  step  he  has  taken  through  you  is 
conformable  to  the  views  of  your  Cabinet,  and  not  without  its 
sanction  ;  yet  you  are  no  doubt  sensible  that  the  business  presents 
itself  in  a  shape  which  does  not  give  the  proper  authenticity  to 
that  fact,  and  is  wholly  without  formality.  You  must  also  be  sen- 
sible that  there  is  a  material  difference  between  your  situation 
and  that  of  Mr.  Morris.  His  credentials,  though  not  formal, 
proceed  from  the  proper  source.  Yours  are  neither  formal  nor 
authoritative. 

This  state  of  things  will,  of  course,  operate  on  what  I  am 
going  to  say  on  the  subject.  As  to  what  relates  to  friendship 
between  Great  Britain  and  the  United  States,  I  conceive  myself 
warranted  in  declaring  that  there  is  in  the  government  of  this 
country  a  sincere  disposition  to  concur  in  obviating  with  candor 
and  fairness  all  ground  of  misunderstanding  which  may  now 
exist  in  reference  to  the  execution  of  the  late  Treaty  of  peace, 
and  in  laying  the  foundation  of  future  good  understanding,  by 
establishing  liberal  terms  of  commercial  intercourse.  ■» 

As  to  alliance,  this  opens  a  wide  field.  The  thing  is  suscep- 
tible of  a  vast  variety  of  forms.  'Tis  not  possible  to  judge  what 
would  be  proper  or  what  could  be  done,  unless  points  were  brought 
into  view.  If  you  are  in  condition  to  mention  particulars,  it 
may  afford  better  ground  of  conversation. 

I  stopped  here  for  an  answer. 

Major  Beckwith  replied,  that  he  could  say  nothing  more 
precise  than  he  had  already  done. 

That  being  the  case,  (continued  I,)  I  can  only  say,  that  the 
thing  is  in  too  general  a  form  to  admit  of  a  judgment  of  what 
may  be  eventually  admissible  or  practicable.  If  the  subject  shall 
hereafter  present  itself  to  discussion  in  an  authentic  and  proper 
shape,  I  have  no  doubt  we  shall.be  ready  to  converse  freely  upon 
it.  And  you  will  naturally  conclude  that  we  shall  be  disposed 
to  pursue  whatever  shall  appear  under  all  circumstances  to  be 
our  interest,  as  far  as  may  consist  with  our  honor.  At  present  I 
would  not  mean  either  to  raise  or  repress  expectation. 
d  3 


34  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  33. 

Major  Beckwith  seemed  to  admit  that  as  things  were  circum- 
stanced nothing  explicit  could  be  expected,  and  went  on  to  make 
some  observations,  which  I  understood  as  having  for  object 
to  sound  whether  there  existed  any  connection  between  Spain 
and  us  ;  and  whether  the  questions  with  regard  to  the  Mississippi 
were  settled. 

Perceiving  this,  I  thought  it  best  to  avoid  an  appearance  of 
mystery,  and  to  declare  without  hesitation, 

"  That  there  was  no  particular  connection  between  Spain  and 
the  United  States,  within  my  knowledge,  and  that  it  was  matter 
of  public  notoriety,  that  the  questions  alluded  to  were  still  unad- 
justed." 

The  rest  of  our  conversation  chiefly  consisted  of  assurances 
on  my  part,  that  the  menaces  which  had  been  mentioned  by  him 
as  having  been  thrown  out  by  some  individuals  with  regard  to 
the  western  posts  were  unauthorized,  proceeding  probably  from 
a  degree  of  irritation  which  the  detention  of  the  posts  had  pro- 
duced in  the  minds  of  many ;  and  of  a  repetition,  on  his  part,  of 
the  assurances  which  he  had  before  given  of  Lord  Dorchester's 
disposition  to  discourage  Indian  outrages. 

Something  was  said  respecting  the  probable  course  of  milita- 
ry operations,  in  case  of  a  war  between  Britain  and  Spain,  which 
Mr.  Beckwith  supposed  would  be  directed  towards  South  Amer- 
ica; alleging,  however,  that  this  was  mere  conjecture  on  his  part. 
I  hinted  cautiously  our  dislike  of  any  enterprise  on  New  Orleans. 

A.  Hamilton. 


Note  by  A.  H. — Mr.  Jefferson  was  privy  to  this  transaction.  The  views  of  the 
government  were  to  discard  suspicion  that  any  engagements  with  Spain,  or  inten- 
tions hostile  to  Great  Britain,  existed ;  to  leave  the  ground  in  other  respects  vague 
and  open,  so  as  that  in  case  of  rupture  between  Great  Britain  and  Spain,  the  Unit- 
ed States  ought  to  be  in  the  best  situation  to  turn  it  to  account,  in  reference  to  the 
disputes  between  them  and  Great  Britain  on  the  one  hand,  and  Spain  on  the  other. 


tEt.33.]  cabinet   papers.  35 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

United  States,  Aug.  27,  1790. 

Provided  the  dispute  between  Great  Britain  and  Spain  should 
come  to  the  decision  of  arms,  from  a  variety  of  circumstances 
(individually  unimportant  and  inconclusive,  but  very  much  the 
reverse  when  compared  and  combined),  there  is  no  doubt  in  my 
mind,  that  New  Orleans  and  the  Spanish  posts  above  it  on  the 
Mississippi,  will  be  among  the  first  attempts  of  the  former,  and 
that  the  reduction  of  them  will  be  undertaken  by  a  combined 
operation  from  Detroit. 

The  consequences  of  having  so  formidable  and  enterprising 
people  as  the  British  on  both  our  flanks  and  rear,  with  their 
navy  in  front,  as  they  respect  our  western  settlements,  which 
may  be  seduced  thereby,  as  they  regard  the  security  of  the  Union 
and  its  commerce  with  the  West  Indies,  are  too  obvious  to  need 
enumeration. 

What  then  should  be  the  answer  of  the  Executive  of  the 
United  States  to  Lord  Dorchester,  in  case  he  should  apply  for 
permission  to  march  troops  through  the  territory  of  said  States 
from  Detroit  to  the  Mississippi  ?  What  notice  ought  to  be  taken 
of  the  measure,  if  it  should  be  undertaken  without  leave,  which 
is  the  most  probable  proceeding  of  the  two  ? 

The  opinion  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  is  requested  in 
writing  upon  the  above  statement. 

Gr   W. 


JEFFERSON  TO  WASHINGTON. 


Aug.  28,  1790. 

Opinion  on  the  questions  stated  in  the  President's  note  of  Aug.  27, 

1790. 

I  am  so  deeply  impressed  with  the  magnitude  of  the  dangers 
which  will  attend  our  government  if  Louisiana  and  the  Floridas    » ■ ; 


36  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  33. 

be  added  to  the  British  empire,  that  in  my  opinion  we  ought  to 
make  ourselves  parties  in  the  general  war  expected  to  take  place, 
should  this  be  the  only  means  of  preventing  the  calamity. 

But  I  think  we  should  defer  this  step  as  long  as  possible ;  be- 
cause war  is  full  of  chances,  which  may  relieve  us  from  the  ne- 
cessity of  interfering  ;  and  if  necessary,  still  the  later  we  interfere 
the  better  we  shall  be  prepared. 

It  is  often,  indeed,  more  easy  to  prevent  the  capture  of  a 
place,  than  to  retake  it.     Should  it  be  so,  in  the  case  in  question, 
the  difference  between  the  two  operations  of  preventing  and  re- 
taking, will  not  be  so  costly  as  two,  three,  or  four  years  more  of 
war. 

So  that  I  am  for  preserving  neutrality  as  long,  and  entering 
into  the  war  as  late,  as  possible. 

If  this  be  the  best  course,  it  decides,  in  a  good  degree,  what 
should  be  our  conduct,  if  the  British  ask  leave  to  march  troops 
through  our  territory,  or  march  them  without  leave. 

It  is  well  enough  agreed,  in  the  law  of  nations,  that  for  a 
neutral  power  to  give  or  refuse  permission  to  the  troops  of  either 
belligerent  party  to  pass  through  their  territory  is  no  breach  of 
neutrality,  provided  the  same  refusal  or  permission  be  extended 
to  the  other  party. 

If  we  give  leave  of  passage,  then,  to  the  British  troops,  Spain 
will  have  no  just  cause  of  complaint  against  us,  provided  we 
extend  the  same  leave  to  her  when  demanded. 

If  we  refuse  (as  indeed  we  have  a  right  to  do),  and  the  troops 
should  pass  notwithstanding,  of  which  there  can  be  little  doubt, 
we  shall  stand  committed ;  for  either  we  must  enter  immediately 
into  the  war,  or  pocket  an  acknowledged  insult  in  the  face  of  the 
world ;  and  one  insult  pocketed  soon  produces  another. 

There  is,  indeed,  a  middle  course,  which  I  should  be  inclined 
to  prefer.  That  is,  to  avoid  giving  any  answer.  They  will  pro- 
ceed, notwithstanding ;  but  to  do  this  under  our  silence  will  ad- 
mit of  palliation,  and  produce  apologies,  from  military  necessity ; 
and  will  leave  us  free  to  pass  it  over  without  dishonor,  or  to 
make  it  a  handle  of  quarrel  hereafter,  if  we  should  have  use  for 
it  as  such.     But  if  we  are  obliged  to  give  an  answer,  I  think  the 


jEt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  37 

occasion  not  such  as  should  induce  us  to  hazard  that  answer 
which  might  commit  us  to  the  war  at  so  early  a  stage  of  it ;  and 
therefore  that  the  passage  should  be  permitted. 

If  they  should  pass  without  having  asked  leave,  I  should  be 
for  expressing  our  dissatisfaction  to  the  British  court,  and  keep- 
ing alive  an  altercation  on  the  subject,  till  events  should  decide 
whether  it  is  most  expedient  to  accept  their  apologies,  or  profit 
of  the  aggression  as  a  cause  of  war. 

Th.  Jefferson. 


HAMILTON  TO   WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  Aug.  28,  1790. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  has  the  honor  respectfully  to 
•submit  to  the  President  of  the  United  States,  for  his  determina- 
tion, a  request  from  the  Naval  Officer  of  the  district  of  New- 
York. 

The  Secretary  humbly  remarks,  that  it  appears  desirable,  as 
far  as  possible,  to  avoid  absences  of  such  important  officers  for  so 
long  a  duration,  but  that  if  the  nature  of  the  reasons  should 
induce  the  President  to  grant  the  request,  the  Naval  Officer  will 
no  doubt  leave  his  public  business  in  the  hands  of  a  deputy,  of 
competent  abilities,  for  whom  he  will  be  responsible. 


HAMILTON  TO  WILLIAM  SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  Aug.  29,  1790. 

Sir  : 

You  are  already  apprised  of  the  loan  which  was  commenced 
in  the  United  Netherlands,  by  Messrs.  Wilhelm  and  Jan  Willink 
and  Nicholas  and  Jacob  Yan  Staphorst  and  Hubbard,  with  a 
view  on  their  part  to  the  service  of  the  United  States,  and  that 


38  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  33. 

• 

the  same  has  been  submitted  to  our  government  for  their  accept- 
ance. On'  due  consideration  of  the  circumstances  of  that  loan 
and  the  views  with  which  the  above  gentlemen  have  undertaken 
it,  I  have  determined,  in  consequence  of  power  vested  in  me,  to 
accept  and  ratify  the  same.  I  have  accordingly  authorized  and 
empowered  Messrs.  AYillinks,  Van  Staphorsts  and  Hubbard  to 
complete  and  carry  the  said  loan  into  full  effect. 

My  present  object  is  to  inform  you,  that  I  have  destined  a 
million  and  a  half  of  florins,  as  soon  as  that  sum  shall  be  received 
by  the  above  gentlemen  on  account  of  that  loan,  as  a  payment 
through  you  to  France,  and  I  have  given  them  directions  accord- 
ingly. It  is  my  wish  that  you  take  the  earliest  opportunity  to 
inform  yourself  with  certainty  that  they  are  in  cash  from  the  loan 
to  pay  your  drafts,  and  that  you  then  proceed  to  possess  your- 
self of  the  funds  and  to  make  payment.  You  will,  no  doubt, 
avail  the  United  States  of  all  proper  advantages  in  making  the 
negotiation  of  the  above  sum  which  the  course  of  exchange  be- 
tween Paris  and  Amsterdam  will  admit.  It  is  probable  that  bills 
will  command  a  premium  that  will  more  than  indemnify  our 
treasury  for  the  charges  of  the  loan,- so  far  as  the  amount  of  this 
payment  to  France.  It  may  be  proper,  on  this  occasion,  that  you 
express  the  satisfaction  which  the  United  States  feel  in  giving 
an  earnest  of  their  sincere  desire  and  intention  to  discharge  their 
pecuniary  obligations  to  France.  Eeferring  you  to  the  Secretary 
of  State  for  instructions  with  regard  to  the  timing  the  intended 
payment, 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  WILLIAM  SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  Sept.  1st,  1790. 

Sir  : 

Two  Acts  of  the  Legislature,  of  the  fourth  and  twelfth  of 
August,  of  which  I  inclose  you  copies,  authenticated  according 
to  law,  empower  the  President  to  cause  to  be  borrowed  on  their 


JEt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  39 

behalf  fourteen  millions  of  dollars,  subject  to  certain  restrictions 
and  qualifications,  to  be  applied  in  payment  of  such  part  of  our 
foreign  debt  as  shall  have  become  due,  and  to  a  new  modification 
of  the  remainder,  if  it  can  be  effected  upon  terms  beneficial  to 
the  United  States.  The  execution  of  this  authority  he  has  com- 
mitted immediately  to  me,  and  ultimately  through  me  to  you ; 
except  as  to  three  millions  of  florins,  part  of  the  above  sum,  of 
which,  as  you  are  informed,  a  loan  has  been  anticipated  by 
Messrs.  Willinks,  Yan  Staphorsts  and  Hubbard,  and  of  which  a 
confirmation,  with  correspondent  powers,  has  been  sent  directly 
:o  them.  Among  the  documents  which  accompany  this  letter 
you  will  find  a  copy  of  the  commission  from  the  President  to  me, 
and  a  power  founded  on  it  from  me  to  you. 

It  remains  for  me  to  give  you  some  indications  for  your  gov- 
ernment, conformable  to  the  general  tenor  of  the  instructions 
which  I  have  received  from  the  President,  and  of  which  I  trans- 
mit a  copy ;  premising  that  it  is  understood,  between  the  Secre- 
tary of  State  and  myself,  that  you  are  to  proceed  to  Amsterdam 
without  delay,  and  to  continue  there,  in  the  first  instance,  for  a 
term  not  less  than  three  months. 

A  primary  and  principal  object  of  your  attention  will  be,  to 
acquire  as  exact  knowledge  as  may  be  of  the  footing  upon  which 
the  different  foreign  powers  who  borrow  in  Holland  have  usu- 
ally obtained  their  loans,  since  the  commencement  of  our  inde- 
pendence, and  upon  which  they  at  present  obtain  them ;  the 
prices  of  foreign  stock  in  the  Dutch  market,  including  our  own ; 
the  state  of  our  credit  compared  with  that  of  other  nations ;  the 
extent  and  the  conditions  to  and  upon  which  we  shall  be  likely 
to  borrow  in  case  of  war  between  England  and  Spain,  and  in  the 
alternative  of  our  being  ourselves  at  peace  or  war ;  the  principal 
houses  and  brokers  concerned  in  the  negotiations  of  foreign 
loans ;  their  characters ;  comparative  solidity  and  influence  with 
the  money-lenders;  the  terms  upon  which  their  agency  is  af- 
forded to  their  employers;  the  manner  in  which  those  whom  we 
have  heretofore  employed  are  understood  to  have  conducted 
themselves  in  relation  to  our  interest  and  credit ;  and  particu- 
larly their  solidity  and  influence  with  the  money-lenders. 


40  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  3$ 

Most  if  not  all  these  inquiries  will  be  immediately  serviceable 
to  you.  They  will  all  be  productive  of  information  useful  to  my 
department ;  and  I  will  therefore  thank  you  for  successive  com- 
munications of  the  result. 

One  consequence  of  them  to  you  will  be,  that  they  will  ena- 
ble you  to  judge  whether  our  confidence  in  our  former  commis- 
sioners or  agents  ought  to  be  continued,  or  withdrawn  in  order 
to  the  substitution  of  others ;  or,  if  continued,  whether  the  terms 
of  their  agency  may  not  be  meliorated ;  or  whether,  with  their 
consent,  some  other  house  or  houses  may  not  be  combined  with 
them,  with  an  increase  of  credit  and  resource  to  us. 

These,  as  you  will  be  sensible,  are  delicate  points.  They  are, 
however,  left  to  your  prudence  and  discretion,  according  as  facts 
shall  be  ascertained  to  you. 

I  shall  only  remark,  that  changes  of  public  servants  ought 
never  to  be  made  but  for  cogent  reasons.  If  lightly  made,  they 
are  not  only  chargeable  with  injustice  and  are  a  symptom  of 
fickleness  in  the  public  counsels,  but  they  destroy  the  motives  to 
good  conduct,  and,  in  money  concerns  especially,  are  apt  to  beget 
a  disposition  to  make  the  most  of  possession  while  it  lasts.  Cir- 
cumspection in  the  present  case  is  also  recommended  by  the 
consideration  that  those  whom  we  have  heretofore  trusted  risked 
themselves  and  their  fortunes  upon  our  affairs,  when  the  doing  it 
was  not  without  serious  hazard.  This  is  a  reason  for  permitting 
them  to  reap  the  benefits  of  our  more  prosperous  days,  if  they 
have  been  faithful  and  are  adequate  to  the  trust.  A  further 
reason  is,  that  they  are  now  deeply  interested  in  our  funds,  and 
consequently,  it  is  presumable,  in  our  credit.  Competition  and 
variance  once  existed  between  the  house  of  Willinks  and  that  of 
the  Van  Staphorsts ;  but  these  appear  some  time  since  to  have 
been  compromised.  The  latter  have  most  merit  for  early  exer- 
tions, the  former  are  said  to  be  most  solid.  Their  union  is  desi- 
rable for  the  greater  security  it  affords. 

Suggestions  of  this  nature  are  not  dictated  by  any  distrust  of 
the  fidelity  or  good  conduct  of  our  former  commissioners.  As 
far  as  I  know,  they  deserve  well  of  us.  My  object  is,  in  entering 
upon  a  new  stage  of  our  affairs,  to  have  the  ground  over  which 


jEt.33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  41 

we  have  passed  well  examined,  that  we  may  the  better  judge 
whether  to  continue  or  alter  our  course. 

In  the  consideration  of  our  foreign  debt,  it  naturally  divides 
itself  into  two  parts ;  that  which  is  now  payable,  and  that  which 
will  be  payable  hereafter.  The  first  we  are  bound  to  discharge 
as  soon  as  may  be,  and  upon  the  best  terms  we  can.  The  last 
we  are  not  bound  to  discharge  but  as  the  times  of  payment 
elapse,  and  therefore  are  not  called  upon  to  do  it  unless  some 
positive  advantage  accrues  from  it  to  ourselves.  This  view  of 
the  matter  governs  the  instructions  of  the  President  to  me, 
which,  of  course,  regulate  mine  to  you. 

You  are  accordingly  to  borrow,  on  the  best  terms  which  shall  he 
found  practicable,  within  the  limitations  prescribed  by  law,  such 
sum  or  sums  as  shall  be  sufficient  to  discharge  as  well  all  in- 
stalments or  parts  of  the  principal  of  the  foreign  debt,  which 
now  are  due  or  shall  become  payable  to  the  end  of  the  year  one 
thousand  seven  hundred  and  ninety-one,  as  all  interest  and 
arrears  of  interest  which  now  are  or  shall  become  due  in  respect 
to  the  said  debt  to  the  same  end  of  the  year  one  thousand  seven 
hundred  and  ninety-one.  But  you  shall  not  extend  the  amount 
of  the  loans  which  you  shall  make  or  cause  to  be  made  beyond 
the  sum  which  shall  be  requisite  for  that  purpose,  unless  it  can 
be  done  upon  terms  more  advantageous  to  the  United  States  than 
those  upon  which  the  residue  of  the  said  debt  shall  stand 
or  be. 

And  in  order  that  you  may  judge  what  will  be  due  to  the 
end  of  the  year  one  thousand  seven  hundred  and  ninety-one,  I 
refer  you  to  the  papers  marked  A  and  B,  which  contain  state- 
ments of  principal  and  arrears  of  interest  of  our  foreign  loans  to 
that  period  ;  and  shall,  by  the  next  opportunity,  send  you  a  copy 
of  the  contracts  respecting  them,  from  which  you  will  derive  a 
more  accurate  knowledge  of  their  terms. 

You  will  perceive,  by  the  Act  which  authorizes  the  loan  for 
paying  off  the  foreign  debt,  that  there  is  no  other  restriction  as 
to  the  terms  except  that,  in  the  contracts  to  be  made,  the  United 
States  shall  be  left  at  liberty  to  reimburse  the  sum  borrowed, 
within  a  period  not  exceeding  fifteen  years.     As  this  seems  to  be 


42  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  33. 

the  usual  period  for  the  reimbursement  of  moneys  borrowed  in 
Holland,  that  restriction  can  constitute  no  embarrassment. 

In  the  second  Act  there  is  no  restriction  as  to  time  of  repay- 
ment, but  there  is  one  as  to  the  rate  of  interest,  which  must  not 
exceed  five  per  cent.  This,  however,  I  consider  as  compatible 
with  the  allowance  of  those  premiums,  commissions  and  other 
charges  which  are  customary  in  ordinary  times  ;  and  which,  I  am 
informed,  are,  in  the  aggregate,  about  four  and  a  half  per  cent. 
But  the  allowance  of  unusual  or  extraordinary  premiums  to 
obtain  loans  upon  a  nominal  interest  of  five  per  cent.,  as  well 
because  it  is  a  pernicious  mode  of  borrowing  as  because  it  would 
be  an  invasion  of  the  law,  is  inadmissible. 

If  war  should  continue  or  become  more  general  in  Europe,  it 
is  to  be  apprehended  that  the  demand  for  money  will  raise  its 
price  upon  us,  and  that  loans  will  not  be  practicable  upon  so  good 
terms  as  in  time  of  peace.  The  situation  of  this  country,  too, 
authorizes  us  to  expect  that  as  our  resources  become  more  un- 
folded and  better  understood,  we  shall  be  able  to  borrow  upon 
easier  terms  than  we  have  at  any  time  heretofore  done.  On  both 
these  accounts  it  would  be  very  desirable,  while  we  did  not 
oblige  ourselves  to  reimburse  the  principal  borrowed  in  less  than 
fifteen  years,  commencing  at  the  end  of  ten,  that  we  could  stipu- 
late for  a  right  of  reimbursing  it  sooner,  that  is  to  say,  either 
upon  giving  notice  of  our  intention  to  do  it  for  a  limited  time 
beforehand,  or  at  the  end  of  a  short  period,  say  five  years.  I 
should  consider  a  stipulation  of  this  kind  as  a  valuable  ingredient 
in  your  contracts. 

I  have  intimated  above  the  inexpediency  of  extraordinary 
premiums  to  purchase  a  nominal  low  rate  of  interest.  Against 
this  error  I  would  particularly  guard  you.  It  is  sacrificing  a  real 
future  interest  to  an  appearance,  at  best,  to  temporary  accommo- 
dation. A  higher  rate  of  interest  upon  a  sum  actually  received, 
is  preferable  to  a  lower  rate  upon  a  nominal  sum,  with  large 
deductions  in  the  first  instance,  or  considerable  premiums  after- 
wards ;  this  will  be  more  especially  the  case  if  we  can  reserve  a 
right  to  repay  when  we  please  or  after  a  short  period ;  as  we 
may  reasonably  contemplate,  with  the  return  of  peace,  a  fall  of 
interest. 


iET.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  43 

But  every  thing  of  this  kind  is,  after  all,  matter  of  calcula- 
tion, and  to  be  tested  by  the  evidence  of  figures.  I  can  only, 
therefore,  mean  to  give  you  a  caution,  referring  you  to  that  test, 
and  intimating  to  you  this  general  principle,  that  the  name  of  a 
low  interest  ought  not  to  betray  us  into  giving  more  for  it  in  the 
shape  of  premium  or  discount  than  it  is  worth,  and  that,  as  we 
shall  borrow  at  a  time  when  circumstances  will  render  interest 
high,  we  had  better  pay  that  interest  on  actual  value  received, 
than  a  lower  one  on  a  fictitious  value,  or  for  future  and  exag- 
gerated compensations ;  reserving,  as  far  as  it  can  be  done,  the 
right  of  paying  off  at  pleasure,  or  at  an  early  period.  The  future 
fall  of  interest  will,  in  the  first  case,  turn  to  our  advantage,  in 
the  last,  to  our  disadvantage. 

You  will  not  pass  unnoticed  the  circumstance  that  the  laws 
contain  actual  appropriations  of  very  adequate  funds  for  the 
payment  of  interest  upon  the  sums  you  shall  borrow.  The  first 
act,  indeed,  after  reserving  six  hundred  thousand  dollars  for  the 
support  of  government,  gives  a  priority  in  payment  to  Ihe 
foreign  debt  out  of  revenues  which  are  calculated  upon  the  esti- 
mate of  a  much  larger  product.  You  may  confidently  assert 
that  the  duties  hitherto  have  produced  at  the  rate  of  one  million 
eight  hundred  thousand  dollars ;  which  alone  would  leave  twelve 
hundred  thousand  dollars,  as  the  fund  out  of  which  the  interest 
on  your  loans  would  be  payable.  But  the  augmentations  which 
have  been  made  in  the  rates  are  computed  to  be  capable  of 
affording  an  addition  of  eight  hundred  thousand  dollars ;  and  I 
believe  the  computation  to  be  well  founded. 

You  will  also,  no  doubt,  make  a  proper  use  in  your  commu- 
nications of  the  actual  situation  and  future  prospects  of  this 
country.  The  economical  scale  of  our  establishments,  civil  and 
military;  the  comparative  smallness  of  our  debt;  the  reliance 
which  may  be  had  on  the  stability  of  our  pecuniary  arrange- 
ments once  made,  from  the  nature  of  our  government  in  respect 
to  the  mutual  checks  inherent  in  its  organization  ;  the  rapid  pro- 
gression of  population  and  resources  to  which  we  may  look  for- 
ward; the  actual  and  probable  emigrations  occasioned  by  the 
troubled  state  of  Europe ;  the  hope  that  we  shall  continue  in 


44  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  33. 

peace,  while  other  powers  are  accumulating  their  debts  by  new 
wars ;  the  very  favorable  situation  in  which  we  shall  find  our- 
selves at  the  end  of  a  general  war  in  Europe,  if  we  avoid  parti- 
cipating in  it,  &c.,  &c.  These  are  topics  which  ought  to  have 
weight  in  our  favor,  and,  within  due  limits,  may  be  urged  with 
force  and  assurance. 

With  regard  to  that  part  of  the  debt  which  does  not  become 
payable  till  after  the  year  one  thousand  seven  hundred  and  nine- 
ty-one, you  will  have  observed  that  nothing  is  to  be  done  by  you 
in  respect  to  it,  unless  it  can  be  done  upon  terms  of  advantage  to 
the  United  States.  However  cordial  our  disposition  to  come  to 
the  pecuniary  aid  of  France  in  her  present  affecting  and  embar- 
rassed condition,  in  this  early  stage  of  our  finances  we  could  not 
in  prudence  volunteer  payments  not  due  by  the  terms  of  the 
contract,  especially,  too,  by  the  expedient  of  new  foreign  loans, 
unless  it  should  be  attended  with  some  circumstance  of  advantage 
in  the  operation  to  ourselves.  By  this  I  understand  a  lower  rate 
of  interest. 

For  according  to  my  speculations  on  the  probable  rate  of  ex- 
change between  this  country,  France,  and  Holland,  and  between 
Holland  and  France  for  some  years  to  come,  I  deem  it  better 
(whether  our  payments  proceed  directly  from  hence,  or  circuit- 
ously  through  Holland)  to  have  to  pay  a  given  sum  to  France, 
than  an  equal  sum  to  Holland. 

The  charges  too  upon  the  new  loans  will  be  to  be  taken  into 
the  account,  and  an  indemnity  for  them  included  in  the  terms  of 
the  operation.  Calculating  only  upon  the  ordinary  ones,  it  does 
not  appear  to  me  that  it  would  be  the  interest  of  the  United 
States  to  change  the  form  of  this  debt,  unless  the  rate  of  interest 
on  the  new  loans  did  not  exceed  four  per  cent.  And  I  own  that, 
in  the  present  aspect  of  affairs,  I  see  no  ground  to  expect  that 
loans  will  be  obtained  at  so  low  a  rate. 

If  the  thing  should  be  possible,  it  must  be  on  the  score  of 
some  collateral  advantages  to  the  lenders ;    such,  for  instance,  as 
their  being  permitted  to  pay  a  part  in  the  effects  or  stock  of  France, 
as  was  contemplated  in  the  last  negotiations.     Whether  any  ar- 
rangement of  this  nature  will  be  a  desirable  accommodation  to 


jEt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  45 

France ;  whether  persons  of  real  capital,  who  would  not  in  the 
execution  be  obliged  to  use  means  prejudicial  to  the  credit  of  the 
United  States,  would  be  willing  to  embark  in  such  a  plan ; 
whether  it  would  prove  an  obstacle  to  other  loans  which  we  may 
have  occasion  to  make  for  other  purposes  ;  are  circumstances  es- 
sential in  determining  its  eligibility,  which  cannot  be  known  to 
me,  and  can  only  be  accurately  judged  of  by  one  on  the  spot. 

I  suggest  them  as  hints  to  you.  In  exploring  or  feeling  the 
ground,  you  will  recollect  that  propositions  of  such  a  nature 
ought  not  to  come  from  us.  If  the  thing  should  be  capable  of 
being  placed  upon  a  footing  conducive  to  our  interests,  we  ought 
only  to  appear  to  sanction  what  other  parties  desire  of  us.  And 
we  should  in  no  event  make  any  movement  that  may  injure  our 
reputation,  or  place  us  in  the  light  of  a  people  desirous  of  mak- 
ing hard  bargains  at  the  expense  of  friends. 

Neither  can  I  authorize  you  to  conclude  any  general  arrange- 
ment of  this  nature,  without  a  previous  communication  of  it  to 
me,  to  be  submitted  to  the  consideration  of  the  President ;  there 
being  a  separate  instruction  from  him  to  me,  that  no  loan  shall 
be  opened  for  more  than  a  million  of  dollars,  and  that  no  new 
loan  shall  be  undertaken  until  the  preceding  one  shall  have  been 
announced  to  him,  and  shall  have  received  his  sanction. 

This  limitation,  therefore,  in  all  your  proceedings,  you  will 
of  course  attend  to,  and  you  will  perceive  the  utility  of  making 
the  earliest  communication  of  every  loan  you  shall  set  on  foot, 
in  order  that  you  may  know  the  determination  of  the  President  be- 
fore its  completion,  and  be  prepared  in  time  to  commence  another. 

It  has  been  suggested  that  loans  may  be  made  with  advan- 
tage in  certain  parts  of  Italy.  I  do  not  count  on  this  resource, 
but  I  shall  be  glad  to  know  how  far,  from  inquiry,  it  shall  appear 
to  be  an  eligible  field  for  an  experiment. 

With  regard  to  the  application  of  the  moneys  to  be  borrowed, 
you  will,  from*  time  to  time,  receive  special  directions. 

The  foregoing  are  the  only  observations  which  the  time  I 
have  will  permit  me  to  make.  They  contain  general  indications 
of  the  course  you  are  to  pursue  ;  the  rest  must  be  left  to  your 
judgment,  circumspection,  and  delicacy.      I  doubt  not  you  will 


46  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  33. 

be  duly  impressed  with,  the  importance  of  the  trust ;  how  much 
the  interest  and  reputation  of  our  government  are  concerned  in 
its  proper  execution.  And  I  feel  a  confidence  that  they  will  not 
suffer  in  your  hands. 

P.  S.  I  send  for  your  information  a  copy  of  my  letter  to 
Messrs.  Willinks  &  Co.,  by  which  you  will  perceive  the  footing 
on  which  the  provisional  loan  of  three  millions  of  florins  is  placed. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON". 

Treasury  Department,  Sept.  10th,  1790. 

Sm: 

The  public  service  appearing  to  require  the  early  establish- 
ment of  the  boats  or  cutters  for  the  protection  of  the  revenue, 
agreeably  to  the  provision  made  by  the  legislature  in  their  last 
session,  I  do  myself  the  honor  respectfully  to  submit  to  you  what 
has  occurred  upon  that  subject. 

Cutters  from  forty  to  fifty  feet  keel  being  deemed  by  ex- 
perienced persons  the  most  eligible,  my  inquiries  have  been 
directed  to  the  terms  on  which  a  boat  of  that  size  may  be  built 
in  the  port  of  New- York.  From  the  information  received,  there 
is  reason  to  expect  that  ten  of  those  vessels  may  be  procured  for 
the  medium  sum  of  one  thousand  dollars  each,  provided  due 
care  and  economy  are  used  in  their  equipment.  To  avoid  dissatis- 
faction, it  may  appear  best  to  build  them  in  different  ports  of  the 
Union.  One  may  be  procured  in  New  Hampshire,  and  another  in 
Massachusetts,  for  the  coast  eastward  of  Cape  Cod ;  one  in  Connecti- 
cut, for  Long  Island  Sound  and  the  coast  adjacent  to  Ehode  Island  ; 
one  in  New- York,  for  the  bays  of  New-York  and  -4-mboy,  and  the 
coast  adjacent  to  Sandy  Hook ;  one  in  Philadelphia,  for  the  bay  of 
Delaware,  and  the  coast  adjacent  to  Capes  May  and  Henlopen ; 
one  in  Norfolk,  and  another  in  Baltimore,  for  Chesapeake  Bay 
and  the  coasts  adjacent  to  it;  one  in  North  Carolina,  for  the 


Mt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  47 

sounds  and  coasts  of  that  State  ;  one  at  Charleston,  for  the  bays 
and  coasts  of  South  Carolina,  and  one  at  Savannah,  for  the  coast 
of  Georgia. 

Should  this  arrangement  meet  your  approbation,  the  utility 
of  the  establishment  leads  me  to  request  your  permission  to 
carry  it  into  immediate  execution  ;  or  that  you  will  be  pleased 
to  direct  such  other  as  may  appear  to  you  preferable. 

There  not  being  sufficient  light  with  regard  to  characters  for 
officering  the  cutters  destined  for  the  Eastern  coasts,  particularly 
Massachusetts,  I  have  written  private  letters  to  the  collectors  of 
Boston  and  Portsmouth,  on  the  subject.  When  their  answers 
arrive,  the  persons  who  appear  to  have  most  in  their  favor,  from 
New- York  inclusively,  eastward,  shall  be  noted  for  your  de- 
terminations. 

The  latest  arrivals  from  Europe  bring  intelligence  of  the  con- 
tinuance and  increase  of  warlike  preparations  by  the  Courts  of 
Great  Britain  and  Spain,  though  no  declaration  of  war  was  known 
in  the  seaports  of  the  latter  on  the  26th  of  July. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 


New-York,  Sept.  15,  1790. 

The  urgent  avocations  in  which  I  have  been  engaged,  to- 
wards putting  in  a  train  of  execution  the  laws  of  the  last  session 
affecting  my  department,  and  a  desire  of  reflecting  maturely, 
and  giving  the  reasons  for  the  result  of  my  reflections  fully, 
have  caused  me  to  delay  longer  than  I  wished  the  answer  to  the 
questions  with  which  you  honored  me,  and  I  hope  will  excuse 
the  delay. 

The  judgments  formed,  in  particular  cases,  are  almost  always 
connected  with  a  general  train  of  ideas  in  respect  to  some  more 
comprehensive  principles  or  relations  ;  and  I  had  thought  it  ad- 
visable to  lay  that  train  before  you,  for  the  better  explanation 
of  the  grounds  of  the  opinions  I  now  give,  or  may  hereafter 


48  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  33. 

have  occasion  to  give,  on  the  like  subjects,  in  obedience  to  your 
commands. 

I  feel  no  small  regret  in  troubling  you  with  the  perusal  of  so 
voluminous  a  discussion;  but  as  I  thought  it  would  be  satis- 
factory to  you  to  have  the  reasons  of  the  opinions  you  re- 
quired fully  submitted  to  your  consideration,  I  conceived  it  to  be 
more  consistent  with  my  duty  to  risk  some  intrusion  on  your 
time,  than  to  withhold  any  consideration  that  appeared  to  me  of 
weight  enough  to  enter  into  the  determination. 

The  President  of  the  United  States. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

New-York,  Sept.  15,  1790. 

Answer  to  Questions  proposed  by  the  President  of  the  United  States  to 

the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury. 

Question  the  First. — "  What  should  be  the  answer  of  the 
Executive  of  the  United  States  to  Lord  Dorchester,  in  case  he 
should  apply  for  permission  to  march  troops  through  the  terri- 
tory of  said  States,  from  Detroit  to  the  Mississippi  ?" 

Answer. — In  order  to  a  right  judgment  of  what  ought  to  be 
done  in  such  case,  it  may  be  of  use  previously  to  consider  the 
following  points : 

First. — Whether  there  be  a  right  to  refuse  or  consent,  as  shall 
be  thought  most  for  the  interest  of  the  United  States. 

Secondly. — The  consequences  to  be  expected  from  refusal  or 
consent. 

Thirdly. — The  motives  to  the  one  or  to  the  other. 

As  to  the  first  point,  if  it  were  to  be  determined  upon  princi- 
ple only,  without  regard  to  precedents  or  opinions,  there  would 
seem  to  be  no  room  for  hesitation  about  the  right  to  refuse.  The 
exclusive  jurisdiction  which  every  independent  nation  has  over 
its  own  territory,  appears  to  involve  in  it  the  right  of  prohibit- 
ing to  all  others  the  use  of  that  territory  in  any  way  disagree- 


Mr.  33.]  CABINET     PAPERS.  49 

able  to  itself,  and  more  especially  for  any  purpose  of  war,  which 
always  implies  a  degree  of  danger  and  inconvenience,  with  the 
exception  only  of  cases  of  necessity. 

And  if  the  United  States  were  in  a  condition  to  do  it  with- 
out material  hazard,  there  would  be  strong  inducements  to  their 
adopting  it  as  a  general  rule  never  to  grant  a  passage  for  a  vol- 
untary expedition  of  one  power  against  another,  unless  obliged 
to  it  by  treaty. 

But  the  present  situation  of  the  United  States  is  too  little 
favorable  to  encountering  hazards,  to  authorize  attempts  to  es- 
tablish rules,  however  eligible  in  themselves,  which  are  repug- 
nant to  the  received  maxims  or  usages  of  nations. 

It  is  therefore  necessary  to  inquire  what  those  maxims  or 
usages  enjoin  in  the  case  suggested. 

With  regard  to  usage,  it  has  been  far  from  uniform.  There 
are  various  instances  in  ancient  and  modern  times  of  similar  per- 
missions being  demanded — many,  in  which  they  have  been 
granted ;  others  in  which  they  have  been  refused,  and  the  re- 
fusal acquiesced  in ;  but  perhaps  more  in  which,  when  refused, 
a  passage  has  been  forced,  and  the  doing  of  it  has  often  been 
deemed  justifiable. 

Opinions  are  not  more  harmonious.  Among  those  who  may 
be  considered  as  authorities  on  such  subjects,  PufYendorf  and 
Barbeyrac  confine  within  narrow  limits  the  right  of  passage 
through  neutral  territories ;  while  Grotius  and  Yatel,  particu- 
larly the  former,  allow  to  it  greater  latitude.  PufYendorf  treats 
it  not  as  a  natural  right,  but  as  derived  from  compact  or  conces- 
sion ;  especially  when  the  enemy  of  a  neighboring  state  desires 
leave  to  march  troops  through  a  neutral  country  against  its 
neighbor.  For  it  seems  (says  he)  to  be  a  part  of  the  duty  which 
we  owe  to  our  neighbors,  especially  such  as  have  been  kind  and 
friendly,  not  to  suffer  any  hostile  power  to  march  through  our 
country  to  their  prejudice,  provided  ive  can  hinder  the  design  with 
no  great  inconvenience  to  ourselves.  And  as  it  may  have  a  tendency 
to  make  our  own  country  the  theatre  of  the  war  (since  the  power 
intended  to  be  attacked  may  justifiably  march  within  our  limits 
to  meet  the  approaching  enemy),  he  concludes  that  it  is  the  safest 
D  4 


50  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  33. 

Avay  of  acting  in  such  case,  if  we  can  do  it  without  any  considerable 
prejudice  to  our  own  affairs,  to  deny  the  enemy  passage,  and  actu- 
ally to  oppose  him  if  he  endeavors  to  force  it  without  our  consent. 
But  if  we  are  either  too  weak  to  hinder  his  progress,  or  must  on 
this  score  engage  in  a  dangerous  war,  he  admits  that  the  plea  of 
necessity  will  fairly  justify  us  to  our  neighbor. 

Examples,  he  adds,  have  little  force  on  the  decision  of  the 
question.  For,  generally,  as  people  have  been  stronger  or 
weaker,  they  have  required  passage  with  modesty  or  with  confi- 
dence, and  have  in  like  manner  granted  or  refused  it  to  others.* 

Barbeyrac,  in  his  Commentary  on  Grotius,  is  still  stronger 
against  the  right  of  passage.^  He  affirms  that,  even  though  we 
have  nothing  to  apprehend  from  those  who  desire  a  passage,  we 
are  not  therefore  obliged  in  rigor  to  grant  it.  It  necessarily  fol- 
lows, says  he,  from  the  right  of  property,  that  the  proprietor 
may  refuse  another  the  use  of  his  goods.  Humanity,  indeed, 
requires  that  he  should  grant  that  use  to  those  who  stand  in 
need  of  it,  when  it  can  be  done  without  any  considerable  incon- 
venience to  himself;  but  if  he  even  then  refuses  it,  though  he 
transgresses  his  duty,  he  does  no  wrong,  properly  so  called,  ex- 
cept they  are  in  extreme  necessity,  which  is  superior  to  all  ordinary 
rules.  Thus  far,  and  no  further,  extends  the  reserve  with  which 
it  is  supposed  the  establishment  of  property  is  accompanied. 

Grotius,  on  the  other  hand,  expresses  himself  thus  \\  A  free 
passage  ought  to  be  granted  to  persons  where  just  occasion  shall 
require,  over  any  lands,  or  rivers,  or  such  parts  of  the  sea  as  be- 
long to  any  nation ;  and,  after  enumerating  several  examples  in 
support  of  his  position,  he  concludes  that  the  middle  opinion  is 
best ;  to  wit,  that  the  liberty  of  passing  ought  first  to  be  demand- 
ed, and  if  denied,  may  be  claimed  by  force.  Neither,  says  he, 
can  it  be  reasonably  objected  that  there  may  be  suspicion  of  dan- 
ger from  the  passing  of  a  multitude ;  for  one  man's  right  is  not 
diminished  by  another  man's  fear.  Nor  is  the  fear  of  provoking 
that  prince  against  whom  he  that  desires  to  pass  is  engaged  in  a 

*  Puffendorf  s  Laws  of  Nature  and  Nations,  pages  239,  240. 

t  Note  1  on  Book  II.  Chap.  II.  %  xiii. 

X  Rights  of  War  and  Peace,  Book  II.  Chap.  II.  %  xiii.  Nos.  1,  2,  3,  4. 


jEt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  51 

just  war,  a  sufficient  reason  for  refusing  him  passage.  Nor  is  it 
any  more  an  excuse  that  he  may  pass  another  way,  for  this  is 
what  every  body  may  equally  allege,  and  so  this  right  by 
passing  would  be  entirely  destroyed.  But  it  is  enough  that  the 
passage  be  requested,  without  any  fraud  or  ill  design,  by  the 
nearest  and  most  convenient  way.  If  indeed,  he  who  desires  to 
pass  undertakes  an  unjust  war,  or  if  he  brings  people  who  are  my 
enemies  along  with  him,  I  may  deny  him  a  passage ;  for  in  this 
case  I  have  a  right  to  meet  and  oppose  him,  even  in  his  own 
land,  and  to  intercept  his  march.  Thus  it  would  seem  to  be  the 
opinion  of  Grotius,  that  a  party  engaged  in  a  just  war  has  a 
right,  of  course,  to  a  passage  through  a  neutral  territory,  which 
can  scarcely,  if  at  all,  be  denied  him,  even  on  the  score  of  danger 
or  inconvenience  to  the  party  required  to  grant  it. 

But  Yatel,  perhaps  the  most  accurate  and  approved  of  the 
writers  on  the  laws  of  nations,  preserves  a  mean  between  these* 
different  opinions.  This  is  the  sum  of  what  he  advances :  "  That 
an  innocent  passage  is  due  to  all  nations  with  whom  a  state  is  at 
peace,  for  troops  equally  with  individuals,  and  to  annoy  as  well 
as  to  avoid  an  enemy.  That  the  party  asking  and  the  party 
asked  are  both,  in  different  degrees,  judges  of  the  question  when 
innocent  f  That  where  the  party  asked  has  good  reasons  for  refus- 
ing, he  is  not  under  any  obligation  to  grant,  and  in  doubtful  cases 
his  judgment  ought  to  be  definitive;  but  in  evident  ones,  or  those 
in  which  the  harmlessness  of  the  passage  is  manifest,  the  party 
asking  may,  in  the  last  resort,  judge  for  himself,  and  after  de- 
mand and  refusal  may  force  his  way.  That  nevertheless,  as  it  is 
very  difficult  for  the  passage  of  a  powerful  army  to  be  absolutely 
innocent,  and  still  more  difficult  for  its  innocence  to  be  apparent, 
a  refusal  ought  to  be  submitted  to,  except  in  those  very  rare  cases 
when  it  can  be  shown  in  the  most  palpable  manner  that  the 
passage  required  is  absolutely  without  danger  or  inconvenience. 
And  lastly,  that  this  right  of  passage  is  only  due  in  a  war  not 
materially  unjust. 

Perhaps  the  only  inference  to  be  drawn  from  all  this  is, 

*  Book  III.  Chap.  VII.  %  119,  120,  121,  122,  123. 


52  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  33. 

that  there  exists  in  the  practice  of  nations  and  the  dogmas  of 
political  writers  a  certain  vague  pretension  to  a  right  of  passage 
in  particular  cases,  and  according  to  circumstances,  which  is 
sufficient  to  afford  to  the  strong  a  pretext  for  claiming  and  exer- 
cising it  when  it  suits  their  interests,  and  to  render  it  always 
dangerous  to  the  weak  to  refuse,  and  sometimes  not  less  so  to 
grant  it. 

It  is,  nevertheless,  a  proper  inquiry,  whether  a  refusal  could 
be  placed  on  such  ground  as  would  give  a  reasonable  cause  of 
umbrage  to  the  party  refused,  and  as  in  the  eye  of  the  world 
would  justify  it. 

Against  the  propriety  of  a  refusal  are  the  following  circum- 
stances ;  that  there  is  no  connection  between  us  and  Spain,  which 
obliges  us  to  it.  That  the  passage  asked  will  be  down  rivers, 
and  for  the  most  part  through  an  uninhabited  wilderness ;  whence 
no  injury  to  our  citizens  or  settlements  will  be  apprehended : 
and  that  the  number  of  troops  to  be  marched,  especially  consider- 
ing the  route,  will  probably  not  be  such,  as  on  their  own  account, 
te  be  a  serious  cause  of  alarm.  These  circumstances  tfiay  give 
our  refusal  the  complexion  of  partiality  to  Spain,  and  of  indispo- 
sition towards  Britain,  which  may  be  represented  as  a  deviation 
from  the  spirit  of  exact  neutrality. 

In  support  of  the  propriety  of  a  refusal,  the  following  is  the 
only  assignable  reason :  that  it  is  safer  for  us,  to  have  two  power- 
ful, but  rival  nations,  bordering  upon  our  two  extremities,  than 
to  have  one  powerful  nation  pressing  us  on  both  sides,  and  in 
capacity,  hereafter,  by  posts  and  settlements,  to  envelop  our 
whole  interior  frontier. 

The  good  offices  of  Spain  in  the  late  war ;  the  danger  of  the 
Seduction  of  our  western  inhabitants ;  the  probable  consequences 
to  the  trade  of  the  Atlantic  States,  are  considerations  rather  to 
be  contemplated  as  motives,  than  alleged  as  reasons. 

The  first  reason,  however,  is  of  a  nature  to  satisfy  the  mind 
of  the  justice  of  a  refusal ;  admitting  the  authority  of  the  more 
moderate  opinions,  which  have  been  cited.  And  the  danger, 
too,  upon  the  supposition  of  which  it  is  founded,  appears  to  be 
obvious  enough  to  vindicate  it.  in  the  opinion  of  the  disinterest- 


/Et.33.]  cabinet    papers.  53 

ed  part  of  mankind  ;  little  likely  as  it  may  be  to  engage  the  ac- 
quiescence of  the  party  whose  wishes  would  be  thwarted  by  the 
refusal.  It  deserves,  notwithstanding,  to  be  noticed  on  this  point, 
that  the  ground  of  dissent  would  not  result  from  the  thing  itself 
— that  is,  the  mere  passage — but  from  the  nature  of  the  acquisi- 
tion, to  which  it  would  give  facility.  This  circumstance  may 
somewhat  obscure  the  clearness  of  the  conclusion,  that  there  is  a 
perfect  right  to  refuse. 

But  upon  the  whole,  there  does  not  appear  to  be  room  enough 
for  a  scruple  about  the  right,  to  deter  from  refusal,  if  upon  ex- 
amination it  shall  be  found  expedient. 

Does  the  right  of  consenting  to  the  passage  stand  upon  ground 
equally  unexceptionable  ? 

This  question  Yatel  answers  in  the  following  manner  :* 
"  When  I  have  no  reason  to  refuse  the  passage,  the  party  against 
whom  it  is  granted  has  no  room  for  complaint,  much  less  for  making 
it  a  pretence  for  war ;  since  I  did  no  mo  re  than  what  the  law  of 
nations  enjoins.  Neither  has  he  any  right  to  require  that  I  should 
deny  the  passage,  because  he  is  not  to  hinder  me  from  doing  what 
I  think  is  agreeable  to  my  duty,  and  even  on  occasion  when  I  might 
with  justice  deny  the  passage,  it  is  allowable  in  me  not  to  make  use  of 
my  right;  especially  when  I  should  he  obliged  to  support  my  refusal 
by  my  sword.  Who  will  take  upon  him  to  complain  of  my  hav- 
ing permitted  the  war  to  be  carried  into  his  own  country,  rather 
than  draw  it  on  myself?  It  cannot  be  expected  that  I  should 
take  up  arms  in  his  favor,  unless  obliged  to  it  by  a  treaty."  And 
Puffendorf  admits,  as  has  been  before  noted,  that  if  we  are  either 
too  weak  to  hinder  his  progress,  or  must  on  that  score  engage  in 
a  dangerous  war,  the  plea  of  necessity  will  fairly  justify  us  to  our 
neighbor. 

Nothing  need  be  added  to  reasoning  so  perspicuous  and  con- 
vincing. It  does  not  admit  of  a  moment's  doubt,  as  a  general 
rule,  that  a  neutral  state,  unfettered  by  any  stipulation,  is  not 
bound  to  expose  itself  to  a  war,  merely  to  shelter  a  neighbor 
from  the  approaches  of  its  enemy.     It  remains  to  examine,  if 

*  Vatel,  Book  III.,  Chap.  vii..  Section  127. 


54  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  33. 

there  are  any  circumstances,  in  onr  particular  case,  capable  of 
forming  an  exception  to  that  rule. 

It  is  not  to  be  forgotten  that  we  received  from  France,  in  our 
late  revolution,  essential  succor,  and  from  Spain  valuable  coun- 
tenance, and  some  direct  aid.  It  is  also  to  be  remembered,  that 
France  is  the  intimate  ally  of  Spain,  and  there  subsists  a  connec- 
tion by  treaty  between  the  former  power  and  the  United  States. 

It  might  thence  be  alleged  that  obligations  of  gratitude 
towards  those  powers  require  that  we  should  run  some  risk, 
rather  than  concur  in  a  thing  prejudicial  to  either  of  them,  and 
particularly  in  favor  of  that  very  nation  against  which  they  as- 
sisted us.  And  the  natural  impulse  of  every  good  heart  will 
second  the  proposition,  till  reason  has  taught  it  that  refinements 
of  this  kind  are  to  be  indulged  with  caution  in  the  affairs  of 
nations. 

Gratitude  is  a  word,  the  very  sound  of  which  imposes  some- 
thing like  respect.  Where  there  is  even  an  appearance  upon 
which  the  claim  to  it  can  be  founded,  it  can  seldom  be  a  pleasing 
task  to  dispute  that  claim.  But  where  a  word  may  become  the 
basis  of  a  political  system,  affecting  the  essential  interests  of  the 
state,  it  is  incumbent  upon  those  who  have  any  concern  in  the 
public  administration,  to  appreciate  its  true  import  and  applica- 
tion. 

It  is  necessary,  then,  to  reflect,  however  painful  the  reflection, 
that  gratitude  is  a  duty,  a  sentiment,  which  between  nations  can 
rarely  have  any  solid  foundation.  Gratitude  is  only  due  to  a 
kindness  or  service,  the  predominant  object  of  which  is  the  in- 
terest or  benefit  of  the  party  to  whom  it  is  performed.  Where 
the  interest  or  benefit  of  the  party  performing  is  the  predomi- 
nant cause  of  it,  however  there  may  result  a  debt,  in  cases  in 
which  there  is  not  an  immediate  adequate  and  reciprocal  advan- 
tage, there  can  be  no  room  for  the  sentiment  of  gratitude.  Where 
there  is  such  an  advantage,  there  is  then  not  even  a  debt.  If  the 
motive  to  the  act,  instead  of  being  the  benefit  of  the  party  to 
whom  it  is  done,  should  be  a  compound  of  the  interest  of  the 
party  doing  it  and  of  detriment  to  some  other,  of  whom  he  is 
the  enemy  and  the  rival,  there  is  still  less  room  for  so  noble  and 


Mt.  33.]  CABINET     PAPERS.  55 

refined  a  sentiment.      This  analysis  will  serve  as  a  test  of  our 
true  situation,  in  regard  both  to  France  and  Spain. 

It  is  not  to  be  doubted,  that  the  part  which  the  courts  of 
France  and  Spain  took  in  our  quarrel  with  Great  Britain,  is  to 
be  attributed,  not  to  an  attachment  to  our  independence  or  liber- 
ty, but  to  a  desire  of  diminishing  the  power  of  Great  Britain  by 
severing  the  British  empire.  This  they  considered  as  an  interest 
of  very  great  magnitude  to  them.  In  this  their  calculations  and 
their  passions  conspired.  For  this,  they  united  their  arms  with 
ours,  and  encountered  the  expenses  and  perils  of  war.  This  has 
been  accomplished ;  the  advantages  of  it  are  mutual ;  and  so  far 
the  account  is  balanced. 

In  the  progress  of  the  war*  they  lent  us  money,  as  necessary 
to  its  success,  and  during  our  inability  to  pay  they  have  for- 
borne to  press  us  for  it.  The  money  we  ought  to  exert  ourselves 
to  repay  with  interest,  and  as  well  for  the  loan  of  it,  as  for  the 
forbearance  to  urge  the  repayment  of  the  sums  which  have  be- 
come due,  we  ought  always  to  be  ready  to  make  proportionate 
acknowledgments,  and  when  opportunities  shall  offer,  returns 
answerable  to  the  nature  of  the  service. 

Let  it  be  added  to  this,  that  the  conduct  of  France  in  the 
manner  of  affording  her  aid,  bore  the  marks  of  a  liberal  policy. 
She  did  not  endeavor  to  extort  from  us,  as  the  price  of  it,  any 
disadvantageous  or  humiliating  concessions.  In  this  respect, 
however,  she  may  have  been  influenced  by  an  enlightened  view 
of  her  own  interest.  She  entitled  herself  to  our  esteem  and 
good  will.  These  dispositions  towards  her  ought  to  be  cherished 
and  cultivated  ;  but  they  are  very  distinct  from  a  spirit  of  roman- 
tic gratitude,  calling  for  sacrifices  of  our  substantial  interests, 
preferences  inconsistent  with  sound  policy,  or  complaisances  in- 
compatible with  our  safety. 

The  conduct  of  Spain  towards  us  presents  a  picture  far  less 
favorable.  The  direct  aid  we  received  from  her  during  the  war 
was  inconsiderable  in  itself,  and  still  more  inconsiderable  com- 
pared with  her  faculty  of  aiding  us.    She  refrained  from  acknow- 

*  France  has  made  us  one  loan  since  the  peace. 


56  HAMILTON'S     WORKS.  [jEt.  33. 

ledging  oar  independence ;  has  never  acceded  to  the  treaty  of 
commerce  made  with  France,  though  a  right  of  doing  it  was  re- 
served  to  her,  nor  made  any  other  treaty  with  us ;  she  has  main- 
tained possessions  within  our  acknowledged  limits  without  our 
consent ;  she  perseveringly  obstructs  our  sharing  in  the  naviga- 
tion of  the  Mississippi,  though  it  is  a  privilege  essential  to  us, 
and  to  which  we  consider  ourselves  as  having  an  indisputable 
title.  And  perhaps  it  might  be  added  upon  good  ground,  that 
she  has  not  scrupled  to  intrigue  with  leading  individuals  in  the 
western  country,  to  seduce  them  from  our  interests,  and  to  attach 
them  to  her  own. 

Spain  therefore  must  be  regarded,  upon  the  whole,  as  having 
slender  claims  to  peculiar  good  will  from  us.  There  is  certainly 
nothing  that  authorizes  her  to  expect  we  should  expose  ourselves 
to  any  extraordinary  jeopardy  for  her  sake.  And  to  conceive 
that  any  considerations  relative  to  France  ought  to  be  extended 
to  her,  would  be  to  set  up  a  doctrine  altogether  new  in  politics. 
The  ally  of  our  ally  has  no  claim,  as  such,  to  our  friendship. 
We  may  have  substantial  grounds  of  dissatisfaction  against  him, 
and  act  in  consequence  of  them,  even  to  open  hostility,  without 
derogating  in  any  degree  from  what  we  owe  to  our  ally. 

This  is  so  true,  that  if  a  war  should  really  ensue  between 
Great  Britain  and  Spain,  and  if  the  latter  should  persist  in 
excluding  us  from  the  Mississippi  (taking  it  for  granted  our 
claim  to  share  in  its  navigation  is  well  founded),  there  can  be  no 
reasonable  ground  of  doubt  that  we  should  be  at  liberty,  if  we 
thought  it  our  interest,  consistently  with  our  present  engagements 
with  France,  to  join  Britain  against  Spain. 

Hoav  far  it  might  be  expedient  to  place  ourselves  in  a  situa- 
tion which,  in  case  France  should  eventually  become  a  party  in 
the  war,  might  entangle  us  in  opposite  duties  on  the  score  of  the 
stipulated  guarantee  of  her  West  India  possessions,  or  might  have 
a  tendency  to  embroil  us  with  her,  would  be  a  mere  question  of 
prudential  and  liberal  calculation,  which  would  have  nothing  to 
do  with  the  right  of  taking  side  against  Spain. 

These  are  truths  necessary  to  be  contemplated  with  freedom, 
because  it  is  impossible  to  foresee  what  events  may  spring  up,  or 


iEx.  33.]  CABINET     PAPERS.  57 

whither  our  interests  may  point ;  and  it  is  very  important  to  dis- 
tinguish with  accuracy  how  far  we  are  bound,  and  where  we  are 
free. 

However  vague  the  obligations  of  gratitude  may  be  between 
nations,  those  of  good  faith  are  precise  and  determinate.  Within 
their  true  limits,  they  can  hardly  be  held  too  sacred.  But  by 
exaggerating  them,  or  giving  them  a  fanciful  extension,  they 
would  be  in  danger  of  losing  their  just  force.  This  would  be 
converting  them  into  fetters,  which  a  nation  would  ere  long  be- 
come impatient  to  break,  as  consistent  neither  with  its  prosperity 
nor  its  safety.  Hence,  while  it  is  desirable  to  maintain 'with 
fidelity  our  engagements  to  France,  it  is  advisable,  on  all  occa- 
sions, to  be  aware  that  they  oblige  us  to  nothing  towards  Spain. 

From  this  view  of  the  subject,  there  does  not  appear  any  cir- 
cumstance in  our  case  capable  of  forming  an  exception  to  the 
general  rule;  and,  as  it  is  certain  that  there  can  hardly  be  a 
situation  less  adapted  to  war  than  that  in  which  we  now  find 
ourselves,  we  can,  with  the  greatest  sincerity,  offer  the  most  sat- 
isfactory excuse  to  Spain  for  not  withholding  our  consent,  if  our 
own  interests  do  not  decide  us  to  a  contrary  course. 

The  conclusion  from  Avhat  has  been  said  is,  that  there  is  a 
right  either  to  refuse  or  consent,  as  shall  be  judged  for  the 
interest  of  the  United  States ;  though  the  right  to  consent  is  less 
questionable  than  the  right  to  refuse. 

The  consequences  to  be  expected  from  refusal  or  consent 
present  themselves  next  to  consideration.  Those  of  consent 
shall  be  first  examined. 

An  increase  of  the  means  of  annoying  us  in  the  same  hands 
is  a  certain  ill  consequence  of  the  acquisition  of  the  Floriclas  and 
Louisiana  by  the  British.  This  will  result  not  only  from  conti- 
guity to  a  greater  part  of  our  territory,  but  from  the  increased 
facility  of  acquiring  an  undivided  influence  over  all  the  Indian 
tribes  inhabiting  within  the  borders  of  the  United  States. 

Additional  danger  of  the  dismemberment  of  the  western 
country  is  another  ill  consequence  to  be  apprehended  from  that 
acquisition.  This  will  arise  as  well  from  the  greater  power  of 
annoying  us,  as  from  the  different  policy  which  it  is  likely  would 


58  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  33. 

be  pursued  by  that  nation,  if  in  possession  of  the  key  to  the  only 
outlet  for  the  productions  of  that  country.  Instead  of  shutting, 
they  would  probably  open  the  door  to  its  inhabitants,  and  by 
conciliating  their  good  will  on  the  one  hand,  and  making  them 
sensible  on  the  other  of  their  dependence  on  them  for  the  con- 
tinuance of  so  essential  an  advantage,  they  might  hold  out  to 
them  the  most  powerful  temptation  to  a  desertion  of  their  con- 
nection with  the  rest  of  the  United  States.  The  avarice  and 
ambition  of  individuals  may  be  made  to  co-operate  in  favor  of 
those  views. 

A  third  ill  consequence  of  that  acquisition  would  be,  material 
injury,  in  time  to  come,  to  the  commerce  of  the  Atlantic  States. 
By  rendering  New  Orleans  the  emporium  of  the  products  of  the 
western  country,  Britain  would,  at  a  period  not  very  distant, 
have  little  occasion  for  supplies  of  provisions  for  their  islands 
from  the  Atlantic  States ;  and  for  their  European  market  they 
would  derive  from  the  same  source  copious  supplies  of  tobacco 
and  other  articles  now  furnished  by  the  Southern  States :  whence 
a  great  diminution  of  the  motives  to  establish  liberal  terms  of 
commercial  intercourse  with  the  United  States  collectively. 

These  consequences  are  all  expressed  or  implied  in  the  form 
of  the  question  stated  by  the  President.  And  as  far  as  our  con- 
sent can  be  supposed  likely  to  have  influence  upon  the  event, 
they  constitute  powerful  objections  to  giving  it. 

If  even  it  should  be  taken  for  granted  that  our  consent  or 
refusal  would  have  no  influence  either  wav,  it  would  not  even 
then  cease  to  be  disagreeable  to  concur  in  a  thing  apparently  so 
inauspicious  to  our  interests.  And  it  deserves  attention,  that  our 
concurrency  might  expose  us  to  the  imputation  either  of  want  of 
foresight  to  discover  a  danger,  or  of  vigor  to  withstand  it. 

But  there  is  almost  always  in  such  cases  a  comparison  of 
evils ;  and  the  point  of  prudence  is,  to  make  choice  of  that  course 
which  threatens  the  fewest  or  the  least,  or  sometimes  the  least 
certain.  The  consequences  of  refusal  are  therefore  to  be  weighed 
against  those  of  consent. 

It  seems  to  be  a  matter  taken  for  granted  by  the  writers  upon 
the  subject,  that  a  refusal  ought  to  be  accompanied  with  a  resolu- 


jEt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  59 

tion  to  support  it,  if  necessary,  by  the  sword ;  or  in  other  words, 
to  oppose  the  passage,  if  attempted  to  be  forced,  or  to  resent  the 
injury,  if  circumstances  should  not  permit  an  effectual  opposition. 
This,  indeed,  is  implied  in  the  nature  of  the  thing ;  for  to  what 
purpose  refuse,  unless  it  be  intended  to  make  good  the  refusal  ? 
or  how  avoid  disgrace,  if  our  territories  are  suffered  to  be  vio- 
lated with  impunity,  after  a  formal  and  deliberate  prohibition  of 
passage  ? 

There  are  cases  in  which  a  nation  may,  without  ignominy, 
wink  at  an  infraction  of  its  rights ;  but  this  does  not  appear  to 
be  one  of  them.  After  having  been  asked  its  permission  and 
having  refused  it,  the  presumption  will  be  that  it  has  estimated 
the  consequences,  calculated  its  means,  and  is  prepared  to  assert 
and  uphold  its  rights.  If  the  contrary  of  this  should  turn  out  to 
be  its  conduct,  it  must  bring  itself  into  contempt  for  inviting  in- 
sult which  it  was  unable  to  repel,  and  manifesting  ill  will  towards 
a  power  which  it  durst  not  resist.  As,  on  the  one  hand,  there 
cannot  be  conceived  to  be  a  greater  outrage  than  to  pass  through 
our  country,  in  defiance  of  our  declared  disapprobation ;  so,  on 
the  other,  there  cannot  be  a  greater  humiliation  than  to  submit 
to  it. 

The  consequence  therefore  of  refusal,  if  not  effectual,  must  be 
absolute  disgrace  or  immediate  war.  This  appears,  at  least,  to  be 
the  alternative. 

Whether  a  refusal  would  have  the  desired  effect,  is  at  best 
problematical.  The  presumption,  perhaps,  is,  that  Great  Britain 
will  have  adverted  to  the  possibility  of  it ;  and  if,  under  the 
uncertainty  of  what  would  be  our  conduct,  she  should  still  have 
resolved  on  prosecuting  the  enterprise  through  our  territory,  that 
she  will  at  the  same  time  have  resolved,  either  to  ask  no  ques- 
tions, or  to  disregard  our  dissent.  It  is  not  unlikely  that  the 
reasoning  of  the  British  cabinet  will  have  been  to  this  effect: — 
If  the  United  States  have  no  predilection  for  Spain,  or  if  their 
views  of  their  own  interest  are  not  opposed  to  the  acquisition  we 
meditate,  they  will  not  withhold  their  consent;  if  either  the  one 
or  the  other  be  the  case,  it  ought  to  be  determined  beforehand, 
whether  their  enmity  be  a  greater  evil,  than  the  projected  acqui- 


60  HAMILTON'S     WORKS.  [^t.  33. 

sition  a  good ;  and  if  we  do  not  choose  to  renounce  the  one,  we 
must  be  prepared  to  meet  the  other. 

A  further  ill  consequence  of  the  refusal,  if  ineffectual,  not 
wholly  destitute  of  weight,  is  this,  that  Great  Britain  would  then 
think  herself  under  less  obligation  to  keep  measures  with  us,  and 
would  feel  herself  more  at  liberty  to  employ  every  engine  in  her 
power  to  make  her  acquisition  as  prejudicial  to  us  as  possible ; 
whereas,  if  no  impediment  should  be  thrown  in  the  way  by  us, 
more  good  humor  may  beget  greater  moderation,  and,  in  the 
progress  of  things,  concessions  securing  us  may  be  made,  as  the 
price  of  our  future  neutrality.  An  exrjlicit  recognition  of  our 
right  to  navigate  the  Mississippi  to  and  from  the  ocean,  with  the 
possession  of  New  Orleans,  would  greatly  mitigate  the  causes  of 
apprehension  from  the  conquest  of  the  Floridas  by  the  British. 

The  consequences  of  refusal  or  consent  constitute  leading 
motives  to  the  one  or  to  the  other ;  which  now  claim  a  more 
particular  discussion. 

It  has  been  seen  that  the  ill  effects  to  be  apprehended  from 
the  conquest  of  the  Spanish  territories  in  our  neighborhood  are, 
an  increase  of  the  means  whereby  we  may  be  hereafter  annoyed, 
and  of  the  danger  of  the  separation  of  the  western  country  from 
the  rest  of  the  Union ;  and  a  future  interference  with  the  trade 
of  the  Atlantic  States,  in  a  manner,  too,  not  conducive  to  the 
general  weal. 

As  far  as  there  is  a  prospect  that  a  refusal  would  be  an  im- 
pediment to  the  enterprise,  the  considerations  which  have  been 
mentioned  afford  the  strongest  inducements  to  it.  But  if  that 
effect  of  it  be  doubtful,  the  force  of  these  inducements  is  propor- 
tionably  diminished ;  if  improbable,  it  nearly  ceases.  The  pros- 
pect in  this  case  would  be,  that  a  refusal  would  aggravate  instead 
of  preventing  the  evil  it  was  intended  to  obviate.  And  it 
must  be  acknowledged  that  the  success  of  it  is,  at  least,  very 
doubtful. 

The  consideration  that  our  assent  may  be  construed  into  want 
of  foresight  or  want  of  vigor,  though  not  to  be  disregarded,  would 
not  be  sufficient  to  justify  our  risking  a  war  in  our  present  situa- 
tion.    The  cogent  reasons  we  have  to  avoid  a  war  are  too  obvi- 


jEt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  61 

ous  and  intelligible,  not  to  furnish  an  explanation  of  and  an 
apology  for  our  conduct  in  this  respect. 

Whatever  may  be  the  calculations  with  regard  to  the  proba- 
ble effect  of  a  refusal,  it  ought  to  be  predicated  upon  the  sup- 
position that  it  may  not  be  regarded,  and  accompanied  with  a 
determination  to  act  as  a  proper  attention  to  national  dignity 
would  in  such  an  event  dictat^.     This  would  be  to  make  war. 

For  it  is  a  sound  maxim,  that  a  state  had  better  hazard  any 
calamities  than  submit  tamely  to  absolute  disgrace. 

Now  it  is  manifest,  that  a  government  scarcely  ever  had 
stronger  motives  to  avoid  war,  than  that  of  the  United  States  at 
the  present  juncture.  They  have  much  to  dread  from  war; 
much  to  expect  from  peace ;  something  to  hope  from  negotiation, 
in  case  of  a  rupture  between  Britain  and  Spain. 

We  are  but  just  recovering  from  the  effects  of  a  long,  ardu- 
ous, and  exhausting  war.  The  people  but  just  begin  to  realize  the 
sweets  of  repose.  We  are  vulnerable  both  by  water  and  land ; 
without  either  fleet  or  army.  We  have  a  considerable  debt  in 
proportion  to  the  resources  which  the  state  of  things  permits  the 
government  to  command.  Measures  have  been  recently  entered 
upon  for  the  restoration  of  credit,  which  a  war  could  hardly  fail 
to  disconcert,  and  which,  if  disturbed,  would  be  fatal  to  the 
means  of  prosecuting  it.  Our  national  government  is  in  its  in- 
fancy. The  habits  and  dispositions  of  our  people  are  ill  suited 
to  those  liberal  contributions  to  the  treasury,  which  a  war  would 
necessarily  exact.  There  are  causes  which  render  war  in  this 
country  more  expensive,  and  consequently  more  difficult  to  be 
carried  on,  than  in  any  other.  There  is  a  general  disinclination 
to  it  in  all  classes.  The  theories  of  the  speculative,  and  the  feel- 
ings of  all,  are  opposed  to  it.  The  support  of  public  opinion 
(perhaps  more  essential  to  our  government  than  to  any  other) 
could  only  be   looked  for  in  a  war  evidently  resulting  from 

necessity. 

These  are  general  reasons  against  going  into  war.  There  are 
others,  of  a  more  particular  kind.  To  the  people  at  large  the 
quarrel  would  be  apt  to  have  the  appearance  of  having  originated 
in  a  desire  of  shielding  Spain  from  the  arms  of  Britain.     There 


62  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  33. 

are  several  classes  of  men  to  whom  this  idea  would  not  be  agree- 
able, especially  if  the  Dutch  were  understood  to  be  in  conjunction 
with  the  British.  All  those  who  were  not  friendly  to  our  late 
Revolution  would  certainly  dislike  it.  Most  of  the  descendants 
of  the  Dutch  would  be  unfriendly  to  it.  And  let  it  not  be  over- 
looked, that  there  is  still  a  considerable  proportion  of  those  who 
were  firm  friends  to  the  Revolution,  who  retain  prepossessions  in 
favor  of  Englishmen,  and  prejudices  against  Spaniards. 

In  a  popular  government  especially,  however  prejudices  like 
these  may  be  regretted,  they  are  not  to  be  excluded  from  politi- 
cal calculations. 

It  ought  also  to  be  taken  into  the  account,  that  by  placing 
ourselves  at  this  time  in  a  situation  to  go'  to  war  against  Great 
Britain,  we  embark  with  the  weakest  party — with  a  total  un- 
certainty what  accession  of  strength  may  be  gained — and  with- 
out making  any  terms  with  regard  either  to  succor,  indemnity, 
or  compensation. 

France  is  the  only  weight  which  can  be  thrown  into  the 
scale,  capable  of  producing  an  equilibrium.  But  her  accession, 
however  probable,  ought  not  to  be  deemed  absolutely  certain. 
The  predominant  party  there  may  choose  to  avoid  war  as  danger- 
ous to  their  own  power.  And  if  even  obstacles  should  not  arise 
from  that  quarter,  it  cannot  be  foreseen  to  what  extent  France 
will  be  in  condition  to  make  efforts.  The  great  body  of  malcon- 
tents comprehending  a  large  proportion  of  the  most  wealthy  and 
formerly  the  most  influential  class — the  prodigious  innovations 
which  have  been  made — the  general  and  excessive  fermentation 
which  has  been  excited  in  the  minds  of  the  people — the  charac- 
ter of  the  prince,  or  the  nature  of  the  government  likely  to  be 
instituted,  as  far  as  can  be  judged  prior  to  an  experiment — do 
not  prognosticate  much  order  or  vigor  in  the  affairs  of  that  coun- 
try for  a  considerable  period  to  come. 

It  is  possible,  indeed,  that  the  enthusiasm  which  the  transi- 
tion from  slavery  to  liberty  may  inspire,  may  be  a  substitute  for 
the  energy  of  a  good  administration,  and  the  spring  of  great  ex- 
ertions. But  the  ebullitions  of  enthusiasm  must  ever  be  a  pre- 
carious reliance.     And  it  is  quite  as  possible  that  the  greatness, 


jEt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  63 

and  perhaps  immaturity,  of  that  transition,  may  prolong  licen- 
tiousness and  disorder.  Calculations  of  what  may  happen  in 
France  must  be  unusually  fallible,  not  merely  from  the  yet  un- 
settled state  of  things  in  that  kingdom,  but  from  the  extreme 
violence  of  the  change  which  has  been  wrought  in  the  situation 
of  the  people. 

These  considerations  are  additional  admonitions  to  avoid,  as 
far  as  possible,  any  step  that  may  embroil  us  with  Great  Britain. 
It  seems  evidently  our  true  policy  to  cultivate  neutralit}^.  This, 
at  least,  is  the  ground  on  which  we  ought  to  stand,  until  we  can 
see  more  of  the  scene,  and  can  have  secured  the  means  of  chano-- 
ing  it  with  advantage. 

We  have  objects  which,  in  such  a  conjuncture,  are  not  to  be 
neglected.  The  Western  posts,  on  one  side,  and  the  navigation 
of  the  Mississippi,  on  the  other,  call  for  a  vigilant  attention  to 
what  is  going  on.  They  are  both  of  importance.  The  securing 
of  the  latter  may  be  regarded  in  its  consequences  as  essential  to 
the  unity  of  the  empire. 

But  it  is  not  impossible,  if  war  takes  place,  that  by  a  judicious 
attention  to  favorable  moments,  we  may  accomplish  both  by  ne- 
gotiation. The  moment,  however,  we  became  committed  on 
either  side,  the  advantages  of  our  position  for  negotiation  would 
be  gone.  They  would  even  be  gone  in  respect  to  the  party  with 
whom  we  were  in  co-operation ;  for  being  once  in  the  war,  we 
could  not  make  terms  as  the  condition  of  entering  into  it. 

Though  it  may  be  uncertain  how  long  we  shall  be  permitted 
to  preserve  our  neutrality,  that  is  not  a  sufficient  reason  for  de- 
parting from  it  voluntarily.  It  is  possible  we  may  be  permitted 
to  persist  in  it  throughout.  And  if  we  must  renounce  it,  it  is 
better  it  should  be  from  necessity  than  choice ;  at  least  till  we 
see  a  prospect  of  renouncing  with  safety  and  profit.  If  the  gov- 
ernment is  forced  into  a  war,  the  cheerful  support  of  the  people 
may  be  counted  upon.  If  it  brings  it  upon  itself,  it  will  have  to 
struggle  with  their  displeasure  and  reluctance.  This  difference 
alone  is  immense. 

The  desire  of  manifesting  amity  to  Spain,  from  the  supposi- 
tion that  our  permanent  interest  is  concerned  in  cementing  an 


64  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  33. 

intimate  connection  with  France  and  Spain,  ought  to  have  no 
influence  in  the  case.  Admitting  the  existence  of  such  an  in- 
terest, it  ought  not  to  hurry  us  into  premature  hazards.  If  it 
should  finally  induce  us  to  become  a  party,  it  will  be  time 
enough  when  France  has  become  such,  and  after  we  shall  have 
adjusted  the  condition  upon  which  we  are  to  engage. 

But  the  reality  of  such  an  interest  is  a  thing  about  which  the 
best  and  the  ablest  men  of  this  country  are  far  from  being  agreed. 
There  are  of  this  number,  who,  if  the  United  States  were  at  per- 
fect liberty,  would  prefer  an  intimate  connection  between  them 
and  Great  Britain  as  most  conducive  to  their  security  and  advan- 
tage ;  and  who  are  of  opinion  that  it  will  be  well  to  cultivate 
friendship  between  that  country  and  this,  to  the  utmost  extent 
which  is  reconcilable  with  the  faith  of  existing  engagements : 
while  the  most  general  opinion  is,  that  it  is  our  true  policy,  to 
steer  as  clear  as  possible  of  all  foreign  connection,  other  than 

commercial and  in  this  resjDect  to  cultivate  intercourse 

with  all  the  world  on  the  broadest  basis  of  reciprocal  privilege. 

An  attentive  consideration  of  the  vicissitudes  which  have 
attended  the  friendships  of  nations,  except  in  a  very  few  in- 
stances, from  very  peculiar  circumstances,  gives  little  countenance 
to  systems  which  proceed  on  the  supposition  of  a  permanent 
interest  to  prefer  a  particular  connection.  The  position  of  the 
United  States,  detached  as  they  are  from  Europe,  admonishes 
them  to  unusual  circumspection  on  that  point.  The  same  posi- 
tion, as  far  as  it  has  relation  to  the  possessions  of  European 
powers  in  their  vicinity,  strengthens  the  admonition. 

Let  it  be  supposed  that  Spain  retains  her  possessions  on  our 
right,  and  persists  in  the  policy  she  has  hitherto  pursued,  without 
the  slightest  symptom  of  relaxation,  of  barring  the  Mississippi 
against  us ;  where  must  this  end,  and  at  a  period  not  very  dis- 
tant? Infallibly  in  a  war  with  Spain,  or  separation  of  the 
"Western  Country.  This  country  must  have  an  outlet  for  its' 
commodities.  This  is  essential  to  its  prosperity,  and  if  not  pro- 
cured to  it  by  the  United  States,  must  be  had  at  the  expense  of 
the  connection  with  them.  A  war  with  Spain,  when  our  affairs 
will  have  acquired  greater  consistency  and  order,  will  certainly 


jEt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  65 

be  to  be  preferred  to  such  an  alternative.  In  an  event  of  this 
sort,  we  should  naturally  seek  aid  from  Great  Britain.  This 
would  probably  involve  France  on  the  opposite  side,  and  effect  a 
revolution  in  the  state  of  our  foreign  politics. 

In  regard  to  the  possessions  of  Great  Britain  on  our  left,  it  is 
at  least  problematical,  whether  the  acquisition  of  them  will  ever 
be  desirable  to  the  United  States.  It  is  tertain  that  they  are  in 
no  shape  essential  to  our  prosperity.  Except,  therefore,  the 
detention  of  our  Western  posts,  (an  object,  too,  of  far  less  conse- 
quence than  the  navigation  of  the  Mississippi,)  there  appears  no 
necessary  source  of  future  collision  with  that  power. 

This  view  of  the  subject  manifests  that  we  may  have  a  more 
urgent  interest  to  differ  with  Spain,  than  with  Britain.  And  that 
conclusion  will  become  the  stronger,  if  it  be  admitted,  that  when 
we  are  able  to  make  good  our  pretensions,  we  ought  not  to  leave 
in  the  possession  of  any  foreign  power  the  territories  at  the  mouth 
of  the  Mississippi;  which  are  to  be  regarded  as  the  key  to  it. 

While  considerations  of  this  nature  ought  not  to  weaken  the 
sense  which  our  Government  ought  to  have  of  any  obligations 
which  good  faith  shall  fairly  impose,  they  ought  to  inspire 
caution  in  adopting  a  system,  which  may  approximate  us  too 
nearly  to  certain  powers,  and  place  us  at  too  great  a  distance  from 
others.  Indeed  every  system  of  this  kind  is  liable  to  the  objec- 
tion, that  it  has  a  tendency  to  give  a  wrong  bias  to  the  Counsels 
of  a  Nation,  and  sometimes  to  make  its  own  interest  subservient 
to  that  of  another. 

If  the  immediate  cause  of  the  impending  war  between 
Britain  and  Spain  be  considered,  there  cannot  be  drawn  from 
thence  any  inducements  for  our  favoring  Spain.  It  is  difficult  to 
admit  the  reasonableness  or  justice  of  the  pretensions  on  her 
part,  which  occasions  the  transactions  complained  of  by  Great 
Britain,  and  certainly  the  monopoly,  at  which  these  pretensions 
aim,  is  entitled  to  no  partiality  from  any  maritime  or  trading 
people.  Hence  considerations,  neither  of  justice  or  policy,  as 
they  respect  the  immediate  cause  of   the  quarrel,  incline  us 

towards  Spain. 

Putting,  therefore,  all  considerations  of  peculiar  good  will  to 

d  5 


66  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [ JSt.  33. 

Spain  or  of  predilection  to  any  particular  connection  out  of  the 
question,  the  argument  respecting  refusal  or  consent,  in  the  case 
supposed,  seems  to  stand  thus : 

The  acquisition  of  the  Spanish  territories  bordering  upon  the 
United  States,  by  Britain,  would  be  dangerous  to  us.  And  if 
there  were  a  good  prospect  that  our  refusal  would  prevent  it, 
without  exposing  us  te  a  greater  evil,  we  ought  to  refuse.  But 
if  there  be  a  considerable  probability  that  our  refusal  would  be 
ineffectual,  and  if  being  so,  it  would  involve  us  in  war  or  dis- 
grace, and  if  positive  disgrace  is  worse  than  war,  and  war,  in  our 
present  situation,  worse  than  the  chances  of  the  evils  which  may 
befall  us  from  that  acquisition,  then  the  conclusion  would  be  that 
we  ought  not  to  refuse.  And  this  appears  to  be  the  true  conclu- 
sion to  be  drawn  from  a  comprehensive  and  accurate  view  of  the 
subject;  though  first  impressions  are  on  the  other  side. 

These  reflections  also  may  be  allowed  to  come  in  aid  of  it. 
Good  or  evil  is  seldom  as  great  in  the  reality  as  in  the  prospect. 
The  mischiefs  we  apprehend  may  not  take  place.  The  enterprise, 
notwithstanding  our  consent,  may  fail.  The  acquisition,  if  made, 
may,  in  the  progress  of  things,  be  wrested  from  its  possessors. 
These,  if  pressed  hereafter,  (and  we  are  willing  to  accept  it,)  may 
deem  it  expedient  to  purchase  our  neutrality  by  a  cession  to  us 
of  that  part  of  the  territory  in  question,  which  borders  on  the 
Mississippi,  accompanied  with  a  guarantee  of  the  navigation  of 
that  river.  If  nothing  of  this  sort  should  happen,  still  the  war 
will  necessarily  have  added  millions  to  the  debt  of  Britain,  while 
we  shall  be  recruiting  and  increasing  our  resources  and  our 
strength.  In  such  a  situation,  she  will  have  motives  of  no  incon- 
siderable force  for  not  provoking  our  resentment.  And  a  reasona- 
ble confidence  ought  to  be  reposed  in  the  fidelity  of  the  inhabit- 
ants of  the  Western  country ;  in  their  attachment  to  the  Union  ; 
in  their  real  interest  to  remain  a  part  of  it,  and  in  their  sense  of 
danger  from  the  attempt  to  separate,  which,  at  every  hazard,  ought 
to  be  resisted  by  the  United  States. 

It  is  also  to  be  kept  in  view,  that  the  same  danger,  if  not  to 
the  same  extent,  will  exist,  should  the  territories  in  question  re- 
main in  the  hands  of  Spain. 


>Et.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  67 

Besides  all  this,  if  a  war  should  ever  be  deemed  a  less  evil 
than  the  neighborhood  of  the  British  in  the  quarter  meditated, 
good  policy  would  still  seem  to  require,  as  before  intimated,  that 
we  should  avoid  putting  ourselves  in  a  situation  to  enter  into  it, 
till  we  had  stipulated  adequate  indemnities  and  considerations 
for  doing  so ;  that  we  should  see  a  little  further  into  the  unravel- 
ment  of  the  plot,  and  be  able  to  estimate  what  prospect  there 
would  be  by  our  interference  of  obviating  the  evil.  It  deserves 
a  reflection,  that  if  those  territories  have  been  once  wrested  from 
Spain,  she  will  be  more  tractable  to  our  wishes,  and  more  dispos- 
ed to  make  the  concessions  which  our  interests  require,  than  if 
they  never  passed  into  other  hands. 

A  question  occurs  here,  whether  there  be  not  a  middle  course 
between  refusal  and  consent ;  to  wit,  the  waiving  an  answer,  by 
referring  the  matter  to  further  consideration.  But  to  this  there 
appear  to  be  decisive  objections.  An  evasive  conduct  in  similar 
cases  is  never  dignified — seldom  politic.  It  would  be  likely  to 
give  satisfaction  to  neither  party — to  effect  no  good — to  prevent 
no  ill.  By  Great  Britain  it  would  probably  be  considered  as 
equivalent  to  a  refusal — as  amounting  to  connivance  by  Spain — 
as  an  indication  of  timidity  by  all  the  world. 

It  happens  that  we  have  a  post  on  the  "Wabash,  down  which 
river  the  expedition,  it  is  presumable,  must  go.  If  the  com- 
manding officer  at  that  post  has  no  orders  to  the  contrary,  it  will 
be  his  duty  to  interrupt  the  passage  of  the  British  troops ;  if  he 
does,  it  would  seem  necessary  for  them,  in  order  to  the  safe  pas- 
sage of  their  boats,  with  their  artillery,  stores,  provisions,  and 
baggage,  to  take  that  post.  Here  then  would  be  a  passage 
through  our  territory,  not  only  without  our  permission,  but  with 
the  capture  of  a  post  of  ours,  which  would  be  in  effect  making 
war  upon  us.  And  thus  silence,  with  less  dignity,  would  pro- 
duce the  same  ill  consequence  as  refusal. 

If,  to  avoid  this,  private  orders  were  to  be  sent  to  the  com- 
manding officer  of  that  post,  not  to  interrupt  the  passage,  his  not 
being  punished  for  his  delinquency  would  betray  the  fact  and 
afford  proof  of  connivance. 

The  true  alternative  seems  to  be,  to  refuse  or  consent :  and 


68  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  33. 

if  the  first  be  preferred,  to  accompany  it  with  an  intimation,  in 
terms  as  free  from  offence  as  possible,  that  dispositions  will  be 
made  to  oppose  the  passage,  if  attempted  to  be  forced ;  and  ac- 
cordingly, as  far  as  practicable,  to  make  and  execute  such  dispo- 
sitions. 

If,  on  the  contrary,  consent  should  be  given,  it  may  deserve 
consideration  whether  it  would  not  be  expedient  to  accompany 
it  with  a  candid  intimation  that  the  expedition  is  not  agree- 
able to  us,  but  that  thinking  it  expedient  to  avoid  an  occa- 
sion of  controversy,  it  has  been  concluded  not  to  withhold 
assent.  There  are,  however,  objections  to  this  mode.  In  case 
of  consent,  an  early  and  frank  explanation  should  be  given  to 
Spain. 

Question  the  Second. — "  What  notice  ought  to  be  taken 
of  the  measure,  if  it  should  be  undertaken  without  leave,  which 
is  the  most  probable  proceeding  of  the  two?" 

If  leave  should  be  asked  and  refused,  and  the  enterprise  should 
be  prosecuted  without  it,  the  manner  of  treating  it  has  been  an- 
ticipated ;  that  is,  the  passage,  if  practicable,  should  be  opposed ; 
and  if  not  practicable,  the  outrage  should  be  resented  by  re- 
course to  arms. 

But  if  the  enterprise  should  be  undertaken  without  asking 
leave,  which  is  presumed  to  be  the  import  of  the  question,  then 
the  proper  conduct  to  be  observed  will  depend  upon  the  circum- 
stances. 

As  the  passage  contemplated  would  be  by  water,  and  almost 
wholly  through  an  uninhabited  part  of  the  country,  over  which 
we  have  no  actual  jurisdiction,  if  it  were  unaccompanied  by  any 
violence  to  our  citizens  or  posts,  it  would  seem  sufficient  to  be 
content  with  remonstrating  against  it,  but  in  a  tone  that  would 
not  commit  us  to  the  necessity  of  going  to  war;  the  objections 
to  which  apply  with  full  force  here. 

But  if,  as  it  is  to  be  feared  will  necessarily  be  the  case,  our 
post  on  the  "Wabash  should  he  forced,  to  make  good  their  passage, 
there  seems  to  be  no  alternative  but  to  go  to  war  with  them,  un- 
welcome as  it  may  be.     It  seems  to  be  this,  or  absolute  and 


jEt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  69 

unqualified  humiliation ;  which,  as  has  been  already  noticed,  is 
in  almost  every  situation  a  greater  evil  than  war. 

In  every  event,  it  would  appear  advisable  immediately  to 
convene  the  Legislature ;  to  make  the  most  vigorous  measures 
for  war ;  to  make  a  formal  demand  of  satisfaction ;  to  com- 
mence negotiations  for  alliances ;  and  if  satisfaction  should  be 
refused,  to  endeavor  to  punish  the  aggressor  by  the  sword. 

Alexander  Hamilton, 

Secretary  of  the  Treasury. 


HAMILTON  TO  WINN. 

Treasury  Department,  September  18th,  1790. 

Sir: 

Mr.  Justin  Foote  has  delivered  at  this  office  a  commission 
from  the  President  of  the  United  States,  vesting  you  with  the 
office  of  Surveyor  of  the  Port  of  Winton  in  North  Carolina. 
This  gentleman  informed  me  that  he  was  not  charged  with  any 
letter  of  resignation  from  }^ou,  but  stated  the  substance  of  your 
verbal  communication  to  him  at  the  time. 

Passing  over  the  obligation  of  every  good  citizen  to  deport 
himself  with  due  respect  to  the  Chief  Magistrate,  and  especially 
of  those  to  whom  he  and  the  Senate  may  have  previously  given 
indications  of  confidence,  which  I  am  persuaded  you  would  not 
intentionally  deviate  from,  I  beg  leave  to  observe,  that  ques- 
tions may  be  raised  whether  the  return  of  a  commission  is  all 
that  is  requisite  from  gentlemen  who  decline  an  appointment  to 
a  public  trust.  Under  these  circumstances,  I  find  myself  con- 
strained to  request  that  you  will  make  known  to  the  President, 
in  a  regular  way,  your  intentions  as  to  your  late  appointment. 


70  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  33. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Mount  Vernon.  20th  September,  1790. 

Sir: 

In  answer  to  your  letter  of  the  10th  instant,  relative  to  the 
establishment  of  the  boats  or  cutters  for  the  protection  of  the 
revenue,  I  have  to  observe,  that  if  there  appears  to  exist  a  neces- 
sity for  equipping  the  whole  number  therein  mentioned,  the 
arrangement  for  building  and  stationing  them  seems  judicious, 
and  is  to  me  perfectly  satisfactory. 

It  is  my  wish,  that  your  inquiries  respecting  proper  charac- 
ters to  command  these  vessels,  may  be  extended  to  the  States 
south  of  Virginia.  Mr.  Lear  can  furnish  you  with  the  list  of  ap- 
plications already  made.  Two  persons,  with  nearly  equal  recom- 
mendations, have  offered  themselves,  from  Philadelphia,  Cap- 
tains Montgomery  and  Koach.  There  are  several  respectable 
names  subscribed  in  favor  of  each  of  these  persons;  some  of 
them,  I  believe,  in  favor  of  both  ;  such  is  the  facility  with  which, 
on  certain  occasions,  recommendations  are  granted.  It  would 
seem,  however,  that  they  are  both  qualified ;  but,  in  favor  of  the 
former,  it  is  stated,  that  he  now  fills  a  subordinate  station  in  the 
revenue,  which  he  accepted  with  a  view  of  being  brought  into 
notice  when  such  an  appointment  as  that  which  he  now  solicits 
should  be  made. 

Captain  Barney  was  not  at  Baltimore  when  I  passed  through 
the  city,  nor  could  I  learn  with  certainty  whether  he  wished  to 
receive  the  appointment  or  not.  But  I  was  informed  that  he 
had  written,  in  answer  to  an  intimation  made  to  him  by  you  or 
one  of  his  friends,  on  the  subject,  whence  I  suppose  his  wish 
may  be  collected. 

There  is  a  Mr.  Bichard  Taylor,  of  this  State,  an  applicant  for 
one  of  the  appointments,  who,  from  my  knowledge  of  him,  ap- 
pears to  be  a  proper  person,  both  as  to  character  and  experience 
in  the  profession.  Bemarking  to  you  that  the  advantage  which 
might  accrue  from  their  superintendence  seems  to  suggest  the 
propriety  of  nominating  the  commanders  before  the  vessels  are 
put  on  the  stocks,  you  have  my  permission  to  carry  the  arrange- 


jEt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  71 

ment  for  building  the  boats  or  cutters,  stated  in  your  letter,  into 
immediate  effect,  to  such  extent  as  in  your  judgment  shall  seem 
necessary  for  the  public  service. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

New- York,  September  2 1st,  1790. 

Sir: 

Doctor  Craigie  has  communicated  to  me  a  letter  from  Mr. 
Daniel  Parker  to  him,  dated  London,  the  12th  of  July,  which 
mentions  that  he  had  just  seen  Mr.  De  Miranda,  who  had  re- 
cently conversed  with  the  Marquis  Del  Campo,  from  whom  he 
had  learnt  that  the  Court  of  Spain  had  acceded  to  our  right  of 
navigating  the  Mississippi. 

Col.  Smith  has  also  read  to  me  a  passage  out  of  another  let- 
ter, of  the  6th  of  July,  which  mentions  that  orders  had  bee;>  sent 
to  the  Viceroy  of  Mexico,  and  the  Governor  of  New  Orleans,  not 
to  interrupt  the  passage  of  vessels  of  the  United  States  through 
that  river. 

It  is  probable  that  other  communications  will  have  ascer- 
tained to  you  whether  there  be  any  and  what  foundation  for  this 
intelligence ;  but  I  have  thought  it  advisable,  notwithstanding, 
to  impart  it  to  you. 

The  reports  from  Europe  favor  more  and  more  the  idea  of 
peace.  They  are,  however,  not  conclusive,  and  not  entirely 
correspondent. 

Captain  Watson,  of  the  ship  New- York,  who  left  London  the 
28th  of  July,  and  Torbay  the  16th  or  17th  of  August,  informs, 
that  the  evening  preceding  her  departure  from  Torbay,  he  was 
informed  by  different  officers  of  the  fleet  that  peace  between 
Britain  and  Spain  had  taken  place,  and  had  been  notified  by 
Mr.  Pitt,  in  a  letter  to  the  Lord  Mayor  of  London,  of  which  an 
account  had  arrived  that  evening.  He  had,  however,  seen  no 
papers  containing  the  account,  and  the  press  of  seamen  had  con- 
tinued down  to  the  same  evening. 

On  the  other  hand,  Capt.  Hunter,  of  the  ship  George,  who 


72  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  33. 

left  St.  Andero  the  8th  of  August,  affirms  that  vigorous  prepara- 
tions for  war  were  still  going  on  at  that  port. 
I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

New-York,  Sept.  29,  1790. 

Sie: 

I  have  been  duly  honored  with  your  two  letters  of  the  18th 
and  20th  of  September. 

My  opinion  on  a  certain  subject  has  been  forwarded,  and  I 
hope  will  ere  this  have  come  to  hand. 

Inclosed  you  will  be  pleased  to  receive  a  list  of  such  charac- 
ters as,  from  the  documents  furnished  by  Mr.  Lear,  from  my 
inquiries,  and  from  the  intimations  contained  in  your  letter  of 
the  20th,  appear  to  stand,  upon  the  whole,  fairest,  for  the  com- 
mand of  the  revenue  boats;  except  for  the  stations  of  North 
Carolina  and  Georgia,  concerning  which  there  is  no  satisfactory 
information. 

Captain  Montgomery  is  said  to  have,  on  some  accounts,  greater 
pretensions  to  respectability  than  Captain  Eoach  (though  both  are 
represented  to  be  men  of  merit),  and  something  like  claim  to  pre- 
ference from  situation. 

Mr.  Gross  is  submitted  on  the  recommendation  of  Captain 
Barney,  who  mentions  favorably  both  him  and  a  Mr.  Daniel 
Porter,  naming  Gross  first,  but  without  expressing  a  preference 
of  either. 

The  Vice-President  put  into  my  hand,  a  day  or  two  ago,  the 
inclosed  letters  concerning  Captain  Lyde ;  but  as  Williams,  who 
is  recommended  by  Governor  Hancock,  is  also  warmly  recom- 
mended by  General  Lincoln,  the  evidence  in  his  favor  may  be 
deemed  to  preponderate. 

The  manifest  expediency  o/  the  previous  nomination  or  ap- 
pointment of  the  persons  who  are  to  command  the  boats,  to  over- 
see the  building  and  equipping  of  them,  will  suspend  the  further 


JEt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  73 

execution  of  the  business  till  your  pleasure,  as  to  the  persons, 
shall  be  signified. 

The  subaltern  officers  can  be  appointed  at  greater  leisure,  for 
which  purpose  I  am  collecting  information,  as  I  am  also  doing 
in  respect  to  commanders  for  the  two  boats  destined  for  North 
Carolina  and  Georgia;  but  I  presume  the  others  need  not  be 
delayed  on  this  account. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 

P.  S. — The  British  packet  is  just  arrived.  The  rumor  is, 
that  the  declarations  in  the  inclosed  paper  were  regarded  as  the 
prelude  of  peace ;  but  that  the  matter  was  not  considered  as 
finished,  and  accordingly  the  press  of  seamen  had  continued  with 
as  much  vivacity  as  before.  In  the  letter  from  the  Minister  to 
the  Lord  Mayor,  these  declarations  seem  to  be  regarded  in  the 
above-mentioned  light.  The  letter  says,  the  negotiators  were 
about  to  proceed  to  the  discussion  of  the  other  matters  in  dis- 
pute, with  a  view  to  a  definitive  arrangement. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

New- York,  Sept.  30,  1790. 

Sir: 

I  had  lately  a  visit  from  a  certain  gentleman,  the  sole  object  of 
which  was  to  make  some  observations  of  a  delicate  nature  concern- 
ing another  gentleman  employed  on  &  particular  errand ;  which,  as 
they  were  doubtless  intended  for  your  ear  (and,  such  as  they  are, 
ought  to  be  known  to  you),  it  is  of  course  my  duty  to  commu- 
nicate. 

He  began  (in  a  manner  somewhat  embarrassed,  which  be- 
trayed rather  more  than  he  seemed  to  discover)  by  telling  me 
that,  in  different  companies  where  he  had  happened  to  be  in 
this  city  (a  circumstance,  by  the  way,  very  unlikely),  he  had 
heard  it  mentioned  that  that  other  gentleman  was  upon  terms 
of  very  great  intimacy  with  the  representative  of  a  certain 
court  at  the  one  where  he  was  employed,  and  with  the  head 


74  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  33. 

of  the  party  opposed  to  the  minister;  and  he  proceeded  to  say 
that,  if  there  were  any  symptoms  of  backwardness  or  coolness 
in  the  minister,  it  had  occurred  to  him  that  they  might  pos- 
sibly be  occasioned  by  such  an  intimacy  ;  that  he  had  no  intima- 
tion, however,  of  this  being  the  case,  and  that  the  idea  suggested 
by  him  was  mere  matter  of  conjecture ;  that  he  did  not  even 
know  it  was  a  fact  that  the  intimacy  subsisted.  But  if  this 
should  be  the  case  (said  he),  you  will  readily  imagine  that  it  can- 
not be  calculated  to  inspire  confidence  or  facilitate  free  commu- 
nication. It  would  not  be  surprising  if  a  very  close  connection 
with  the  representative  of  another  power  should  beget  doubts 
and  reserves ;  or  if  a  very  familiar  intercourse  with  the  head  of 
the  opposition  should  occasion  prejudice  and  distance.  Man, 
after  all,  is  but  man ;  and  though  the  minister  has  a  great  mind, 
and  is  as  little  likely  as  most  men  to  entertain  illiberal  distrusts 
or  jealousies;  yet  there  is  no  saying  what  might  be  the  effect  of 
such  conduct  upon  him.  It  is  hardly  possible  not  to  have  some 
diffidence  of  those  who  seem  to  be  very  closely  united  with  our 
political  or  personal  enemies  or  rivals.  At  any  rate,  such  an 
intimacy,  if  it  exists,  can  do  no  good,  may  do  some  harm. 

This,  as  far  as  I  recollect,  was  the  substance  of  what  he  said. 
My  answer  was  nearly  as  follows  : — 

I  have  never  heard  a  syllable,  sir,  about  the  matter  you  men- 
tion. It  appears  to  me,  however,  very  possible  that  an  intimacy 
with  both  the  persons  you  mention  may  exist :  with  the  first, 
because  the  situation  of  the  parties  had  naturally  produced  such 
an  intimacy  while  both  were  in  this  country ;  and  to  have  dropped 
and  avoided  it  there  would  not  have  been  without  difficulty, 
on  the  score  of  politeness,  and  would  have  worn  an  extraordinary 
and  mysterious  aspect.  AVith  the  last,  from  the  patronage  of 
American  affairs  which  is  understood  to  have  been  uniformly  the 
part  of  that  gentleman,  and,  in  some  degree,  from  a  similarity  of 
dispositions  and  characters ;  both  brilliant  men,  men  of  wit  and 
genius ;  both  fond  of  the  pleasures  of  society.  It  is  to  be  hoped 
that  appearances  which  admit  of  so  easy  a  solution  will  not  prove 
an  obstacle  to  any  thing  which  mutual  interest  dictates.  It  is 
impossible  that  there  can  be  any  thing  wrong. 


jEt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  75 

He  replied,  that  lie  certainly  had  no  idea  that  there  could  be 
any  thing  wrong ;  but  that,  as  trifles  often  mar  great  affairs,  he 
thought  it  best  to  impart  to  me  his  conjecture,  that  such  use 
might  be  made  of  it  as  should  be  thought  advisable. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 

P.  S. — The  letters  herewith  were,  through  hurry,  omifted  in 
my  dispatch  of  yesterday. 


WASHINGTON  TO   HAMILTON. 

Mount  Vernon,  October  3d,  1790. 

Dear  Sir  : 

Since  my  last  to  you,  your  letter  dated  the  15th  ult'o,  con- 
taining your  sentiments  on  the  questions  I  had  proposed  for 
your  opinion  and  advice,  is  come  duly  to  hand.  I  feel  myself 
much  obliged  by  the  full  and  able  consideration  you  have  given 
the  subject.  From  present  appearances,  however,  it  does  not 
seem  as  if  there  would  be  occasion  for  any  decision  on  either 
point  which  gave  birth  to  my  questions. 

With  very  sincere  regard  and  affection, 

I  am,  dear  Sir,  &c. 


Sir 


HAMILTON  TO   LINCOLN. 

Treasury  Department,  Oct.  4th,  1790, 


It  being  necessary  that  I  should  proceed,  according  to  the 
directions  of  the  legislature,  to  complete  the  light-house  at  Port- 
land, in  the  province  of  Maine,  I  find  the  remote  situation  of  the 
place  will  render  your  assistance  requisite  on  the  occasion.  In- 
closed you  will  find  the  Act  of  Congress  which  must  limit  your 
disbursements.  I  wish  this  business  to  be  well  executed,  in  a 
way  corresponding  with  the  beginning,  and  that  no  time  may  be 
lost.     If  it  is  possible  to  complete  the  work  this  season,  it  is  very 


76  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  33. 

desirable  that  it  be  done ;  if  not,  I  hope  it  may  be  so  far  ad- 
vanced, that  the  building  can  be  covered  and  protected  from  in- 
jury by  the  weather.  On  receipt  of  this,  be  pleased  to  employ, 
without  any  avoidable  delay,  the  suitable  persons,  either  on 
the  spot  or  elsewhere  in  the  State  of  Massachusetts,  to  complete 
this  light-house,  either  by  contract  or  otherwise — preferring  the 
former,  as  the  mode  designated  in  other  instances  by  the  legisla- 
ture, and  taking  care  that  your  disbursements  do  not  exceed  the 
sum  granted  by  law. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 
(private.) 

Mount  Vernon,  Oct.  10,  1790. 

Dear  Sir  : 

Your  letter  of  the  30th  ult.  came  duly  to  hand  with  its  inclo- 
sures.  For  the  information  contained  in  it  I  thank  you,  as  I 
shall  do  for  all  others  of  a  similar  nature. 

The  motives,  however,  by  which  the  author  of  the  communi- 
cation to  you  was  actuated,  although  they  may  have  been  pure, 
and  in  that  case  praiseworthy,  do  also  (but  it  may  be  uncharita- 
ble to  harbor  the  suspicion)  admit  of  a  different  interpretation, 
and  that  by  an  easy  and  pretty  direct  clue. 

We  are  approaching  the  first  Monday  in  December  by  hasty 
strides ;  I  pray  you,  therefore,  to  revolve  in  your  mind  not  only 
such  matters  (if  there  be  any)  as  may  be  proper  for  me  to  lay 
before  Congress  in  your  own  department,  but  such  others  of  a 
general  nature  as  may  happen  to  occur  to  you,  that  I  may  be 
prepared  to  open  the  session  with  such  communications  as  shall 
appear  to  merit  attention. 

With  sincere  regard,  I  am,  &c. 


,Et.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  11 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

New-York,  Oct.  17,  1790. 

Sir: 

I  had  the  honor  of  receiving  your  letter  of  the  10th  inst. 
by  the  last  post.  It  is  certainly  very  possible,  that  motives 
different  from  the  one  avowed  may  have  produced  a  certain 
communication ;  and  in  matters  of  such  a  nature  it  is  not  only 
allowable,  but  the  dictate  of  prudence,  to  receive  suggestions 
with  peculiar  caution. 

A  British  packet  arrived  yesterday.  The  accounts  she  brings 
are  all  of  a  warlike  aspect.  I  have  extracted  from  an  English 
paper  the  inclosed  decree  of  the  National  Assembly  of  France ; 
which,  though  of  a  qualified  tenor,  looks  pretty  directly  towards 
the  eventual  supporting  of  Spain.  The  English  papers  hold  it 
up  as  a  decisive  indication  of  a  disposition  to  do  so.  And  it  is 
said,  in  some  of  the  letters  which  have  been  received,  that  posi- 
tive orders  have  been  sent  to  Lord  Howe  to  fight  if  he  can  find 
an  opportunity.  The  papers  announce  a  second  fleet  of  fifteen 
sail  of  the  line  ready  to  rendezvous  at  Portsmouth,  to  be  under 
the  command  of  Admiral  Hood.     Their  destination  unknown. 

It  is  also  mentioned  that  the  Dutch  fleet  had  returned  to  the 
Texel,  the  Duke  of  Leeds  having  previously  made  a  journey  for 
an  interview  with  the  Dutch  admiral.  This  very  mysterious 
circumstance  is  wholly  unexplained. 

A  certain  gentleman  who  called  on  me  to-day,  informed  me 
that  a  packet  had  sailed  the  16th  of  August  for  Quebec,  in  which 
went  passenger  General  Clarke.  He  added  that  the  rumor  in 
England  was,  that  Sir  Guy  Carleton  was  to  return  in  her.  He 
made  no  other  communication. 

The  inclosed  letter  came  to  hand  to-dav.  I  have  had  no 
opportunity  of  making  any  inquiry  concerning  the  person  recom- 
mended in  it.  If  I  can  obtain  any  additional  lights,  they  shall 
be  made  known  without  delay. 

The  object  suggested  in  your  letter  as  preparatory  to  the 
meeting  of  the  Legislature  shall  engage  my  particular  attention. 


78  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  33. 

The  papers  of  the  departments  of  state  and  the  treasury,  and 
of  the  commissioners  for  settling  accounts,  are  on  their  way  to 
Philadelphia.  On  the  20th,  I  propose  with  my  family  to  set  out 
for  the  same  place. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


Decree  of  the  National  Assembly. 

Thursday  afternoon,  four  o'clock. 

The  National  Assembly,  deliberating  upon  the  formal  propo- 
sition of  the  King  contained  in  the  letter  of  his  minister  of  the 
1st  of  August,  decrees, 

First.  That  the  King  shall  be  prayed  to  make  known  to  his 
Catholic  Majesty  that  the  French  nation,  in  taking  all  the  measures 
necessary  to  maintain  peace,  will  observe  the  defensive  and  com- 
mercial engagements  which  his  Government  has  contracted  with 
Spain. 

Secondly.  Decrees  moreover  that  the  King  shall  be  prayed 
immediately  to  charge  the  Ambassador  from  France  in  Spain,  to 
negotiate  with  the  ministers  of  his  Catholic  Majesty  for  the  pur- 
pose, and  to  the  effect  of  strengthening,  by  a  National  Treaty, 
the  ties  and  connections  useful  to  the  two  nations,  and  to  fix 
with  clearness  and  precision  all  the  stipulations  which  shall  not 
be  entirely  conformable  to  the  views  of  a  general  peace,  and  to 
the  principles  of  justice,  which  will  ever  be  the  policy  of  France. 

Thirdly.  The  National  Assembly  taking  into  consideration 
the  armaments  of  the  different  nations  of  Europe — their  progres- 
sive augmentation,  the  safety  of  the  Colonies  and  of  Commerce, 
decrees  that  the  King  shall  be  prayed  to  give  necessary  orders 
that  the  squadrons  in  commission  may  be  augmented  to  forty -five 
ships  of  the  line,  with  a  proportionate  number  of  frigates  and 
small  vessels. 


Mt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  79 


HAMILTON  TO   GOODHUE. 

October  29,  1790. 

Dear  Sir: 

As  the  subject  of  the  inclosed  letter  is  of  consequence  to  the 
Whale  Fishery,  I  send  it  to  you  to  read,  and  will  be  glad  to  con- 
verse with  you  about  it  to-morrow. 

Your  obedient  servant, 

A.  H. 

October  29,  1789. 

My  Dear  Sir: 

I  am  duly  favored  with  your  letter  of  the  eighteenth  instant, 
and  receive  the  observations  you  have  been  so  obliging  as  to 
make,  not  only  with  candor  but  with  thanks,  as  a  mark  of  your 
friendship  and  confidence. 

I  am  far  from  relying  so  much  upon  my  own  judgment  as  not  to 
think  it  very  possible  that  I  may  have  been  mistaken  in  both  the 
constructions  on  which  you  remark.  Indeed  I  see  abundant  room 
for  adopting  opposite  ones,  and  did  not,  till  after  mature  reflec- 
tion, conclude  on  those  which  had  been  announced,  and  not  then, 
entirely,  without  hesitation. 

The  reasoning  which  prevailed  in  my  mind  in  each  case  was 
of  this  nature : 

First,  as  to  the  Bounty. 

The  original  and  express  object  of  the  allowance  was  by  way 
of  compensation  for  the  duties  on  salt. 

The  declared  motive  of  the  suspension  was,  that  there  was 
salt  within  the  United  States,  on  which  no  such  duties  had  been 
paid. 

The  equity  of  the  suspending  clause,  which  is,  that  there 
ought  to  be  no  compensation  where  there  is  no  consideration, 
and  the  general  intent  of  the  Legislature,  which  was,  that  there 
should  be  no  compensation  where  there  had  been  no  such  con- 
sideration, were  therefore  both  manifestly  against  the  allowance 
of  the  bounty  on  the  articles  shipped  between  the  passing  of  the 


80  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  33. 

first  Act  and  the  passing  of  the  second.  And  though  the 
letter  of  the  suspending  clause  is  future,  yet  its  reason  being  re- 
trospective, and  the  actual  making  of  the  allowance  for  articles 
already  shipped  being  future  also,  I  thought  it  admissible  so  to 
construe  the  law  as  to  arrest  this  allowance,  in  that  sense  future, 
in  conformity  to  the  real  justice  of  the  case  and  the  main  design 
of  the  Legislature.  In  a  circumstance  in  which  the  equity  was 
palpable,  and  the  law  doubtful,  I  thought  it  my  duty  as  an 
executive  servant  of  the  Government,  not  to  let  the  public  money 
be  parted  with  on  a  mere  point  of  construction,  till  that  construc- 
tion should  be  judicially  established.  This  resource  will  be 
open  to  any  individual  who  will  choose  to  pursue  it,  by  an  action 
against  the  Collector  of  the  Port  from  which  the  articles'  were 
shipped. 

Secondly,  as  to  the  discount  for  prompt  payment. 

The  words  "prompt  payment"  are,  in  my  apprehension, 
synonymous  with  immediate  payment,  or  payment  down.  The 
most  obvious  import  of  the  clause  in  question  seems,  therefore, 
to  be  this :  when  the  amount  of  the  duties  exceeds  fifty  dollars, 
time  shall  be  given  for  payment  upon  proper  bond  security ;  but 
if  the  party  prefers  making  immediate  payment,  on  paying  the 
money  down  he  shall  have  an  allowance  of  ten  per  cent.,  on  all 
above  fifty  dollars,  for  doing  it.  The  confining  the  discount  to 
the  excess  illustrates  the  meaning  of  the  provision,  and  shows 
that  payment  in  the  first  instance  was  contemplated ;  for  if  it  had 
been  intended  that  the  discount  might  be  made  at  any  time  be- 
fore the  bonds  became  due,  it  would  be  difficult  to  imagine  why 
it  should  not  extend  to  the  fifty  dollars,  as  well  as  to  the  excess. 

I  was  the  more  inclined  to  this  construction,  because  I 
supposed  the  contrary  one  was  of  a  nature  to  be  rendered  more 
beneficial  to  any  collector  who  might  choose  to  avail  himself  of 
it  than  to  the  public.  And  in  general,  I  doubt  much  that  it  is 
the  interest  of  the  public  to  make  such  a  discount,  as  they  now 
borrow  at  less  in  its  operation  than  six  per  cent. ;  on  which  ac- 
count I  felt  no  inclination  to  extend  the  discount. 

Thus  have  I,  my  dear  sir,  freely  explained  to  you  the  motives 
by  which  I  have  been  governed  in  the  instances  in  question. 


,Et.33.]  cabinet   papers.  81 

And  I  shall  be  happy  that  they  may  appear  to  you  satisfactory. 
I  am  sure  at  least  that  you  will  view  the  intention  favorably ; 
and  I  beg  you  to  be  assured  of  the  friendship  and  esteem  with 
which  I  am,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  Nov.  4th,  1790. 

Sir: 

I  have  the  honor  to  inform  you,  that  a  letter,  of  which  a  copy 
is  inclosed,  has  come  to  my  hands  from  the  loan  officer  of  North 
Carolina,  since  the  date  of  my  last  letter.  On  considering  mi- 
nutely the  course  of  the  business  of  the  new  loans  and  the  future 
operations  of  the  treasury,  as  they  will  affect  the  public  stocks,  it 
appeared  necessary,  to  the  prevention  of  frands  by  counterfeiters 
and  forgers,  that  particular  caution  should  be  observed  at  the 
time  of  receiving  the  old  certificates,  after  which  it  would  be 
difficult  to  discover  the  deceptions,  and  more  so  to  remedy  the 
injuries  committed  on  the  public.  Among  other  preventives,  I 
informed  the  officers  that  their  residence,  during  the  time  of  sub- 
scription, at  the  place  where  the  checks  of  the  State  debts  were 
deposited,  appeared  indispensable.  This  was  grounded  on  the 
great  varieties  of  that  kind  of  paper,  and  on  an  expectation,  aris- 
ing from  several  circumstances,  that  forged  and  counterfeit  paper 
would  be  frequently  presented  to  them.  In  most  of  the  States 
the  officers  resided  at  the  seat  of  the  State  government,  where  the 
checks  were  deposited,  and  it  was  only  of  two  or  three,  therefore, 
that  this  apparently  necessary  requisition  was  to  be  made.  In 
regard  to  the  residence  of  the  officer  at  the  principal  seat  of  com- 
merce in  the  State  which  should  form  his  district,  it  appeared 
absolutely  necessary  to  the  facility  of  sale  and  transfer,  and  to  the 
import  and  operations  of  raising  and  sustaining  the  value  of  the 
debt.  I  have  thought  it  necessary,  sir,  to  trouble  you  with  thus 
much  of  my  views,  that  you  might  perfectly  understand  the 
ground  upon  which  Mr.  Skinner  resigns  the  appointment. 
D  6 


82  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  33. 

I  beg  leave  respectfully  to  observe,  that  the  public  service 
appears  to  require  this  vacancy  to  be  rilled  as  early  as  you  can 
satisfy  your  judgment  respecting  the  person  to  whom  you  may 
think  proper  to  commit  the  office.  I  have,  therefore,  endeavored 
to  procure  such  information,  to  be  submitted  to  you,  as,  together 
with  that  drawn  from  other  sources,  might  afford  a  number  of 
characters  for  your  consideration  and  selection.  I  have  not  been 
able,  however,  to  obtain  any  new  name  whom  I  would  venture 
to  place  before  you ;  but,  on  reconsideration  of  the  names  that 
were  presented  to  you  on  the  former  occasion,  I  beg  leave  to  call 
your  recollection  to  Colonel  Thomas,  in  whom  the  State  have 
confided,  and  as  a  gentleman  who  was  supported  by  the  good 
opinion  of  such  of  the  North  Carolina  representatives  as  I  con- 
versed with.  Should  no  objection  against  him  be  known  to  you, 
and  should  no  more  suitable  person  be  presented  for  your  choice, 
I  am  humbly  of  opinion  that  the  duties  of  the  office  may  be 
safely  committed  to  him. 

The  account  of  a  declaration  of  war  between  Great  Britain 
and  Spain  having  been  received  in  a  port  adjacent  to  your  pres- 
ent place  of  residence,  I  did  not  think  it  of  importance  to  transmit 
information  of  it  from  hence.  It  remains,  however,  unconfirmed 
and  uncontradicted. 


FITZSIMMONS  TO  HAMILTON. 

November  6th,  1790. 

Dear  Sir  : 

The  difficulty  of  making  provision,  by  a  general  law,  for  the 
regulation  of  pilots,  and  the  superintendence  of  light-houses, 
buoys,  &c,  appears  to  me  to  be  insurmountable,  otherwise  than 
by  the  appointment  of  commissioners  in  each  State  (say  three), 
to  reside  at  the  principal  port ;  to  give  them  certain  powers  in 
the  act  and  authority  to  make  by-laws,  subject  to  the  revision  of 
the  President  of  the  United  States,  or  perhaps,  more  properly,  of 
the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury. 


iEr.  33.]  cabinet   papers.  83 

By  this  method,  the  complete  control  of  the  pilots  would  be 
in  the  United  States — a  thing,  in  my  opinion,  important  to  the 
revenue;  and  the  regulations  may  be  adapted  to  the  circum- 
stances of  each  State,  without  interfering  with  each  other.  If 
you  approve  of  the  idea,  and  I  can  be  serviceable  in  carrying  it 
into  effect,  you  may  command  me. 

I  am,  respectfully,  &c. 


HEADS  OF  TOPICS  FOR  PRESIDENT'S  SPEECH  OF  DEC.   8,   1790. 

Draft  by  Hamilton,  December  1,  1790. 

I.  Confidence  that  measures  for  the  further  support  of  public 
credit,  and  for  the  payment  of  the  interest  and  gradual  ex- 
tinguishment of  the  principal  of  the  public  debt,  will  be  pursued 
with  zeal  and  vigor ;  and  that,  as  one  mean  to  this,  a  plan  for 
the  sale  of  the  "Western  lands  will  be  adopted,  which  will  give 
them  the  effect  intended,  appropriating  them  to  the  sinking 
fund,  and  which  will  extend  the  agriculture  of  the  United  States. 

II.  Felicitation  on  the  success  of  the  measures  hitherto 
adopted  for  the  support  of  public  credit,  as  witnessed  by  the  rise 
of  American  stock,  not  only  in  the  United  States,  but  in  Europe. 
The  public  credit  cannot  but  acquire  additional  energy  when  it 
is  known  that  the  resources  hitherto  in  activity,  have  been  more 
productive  than  was  calculated  upon.  As  proof  not  only  of  the 
resources  of  the  country,  but  of  the  patriotism  and  honor  of  the 
mercantile  and  marine  citizens  of  the  United  States,  the  punctu- 
ality of  the  former  in  discharging  their  obligations  has  been 
exemplary. 

III.  Information  that  a  loan  of  300,000  florins  has  been  ef- 
fected in  Holland,  the  terms  and  disposition  of  which  (as  far  as 
any  has  been  made)  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  has  been 
directed  to  explain. 

IV.  Growing  conviction  in  the  minds  of  the  great  body  of  the 
people  of  the  utility  and  benefits  of  a  National  Government.     It 


84  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  33. 

is  not  to  be  doubted  that  any  symptom  of  discontent  which  may 
have  appeared  in  particular  places,  respecting  particular  meas- 
ures, will  be  obviated  by  a  removal  of  the  misapprehensions 
which  may  have  occasioned  them. 

Y.  Communication  of  the  expedition  against  the  Indians,  and 
of  the  motives  to  it. 

YI.  Disturbed  situation  of  Europe,  particularly  of  the  great 
maritime  powers.  The  precautions  of  a  prudent  circumspection 
on  the  part  of  the  United  States  ought  not  to  be  neglected. 

YII.  Almost  total  interruption  of  our  Mediterranean  trade, 
from  the  dread  of  piratical  depredations.  Great  importance  of 
opening  that  trade,  and  expediency  of  considering  whether  pro- 
tection cannot  be  afforded  to  it. 

IX.  Symptoms  of  greater  population  than  was  supposed — a 
further  proof  of  progressive  strength  and  resource. 

X.  Eemarks  on  the  abundance  of  the  harvests,  affording  an 
assurance  of  internal  plenty,  and  the  means  of  easy  payment  for 
foreign  supplies. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON, 

Philadelphia,  Dec.  2d,  1790. 

Sir: 

The  day  before  yesterday  I  received  a  letter  from  Mr.  Wood- 
bury Langdon,  declining  the  appointment  offered  him.  There 
was  a  letter  with  it  for  you,  which  I  immediately  forwarded. 

Since  that  time  I  have  conversed  with  Mr.  Langdon,  and 
have  heard  from  Mr.  Gilman  ;  the  former  is  warm  in  his  recom- 
mendation of  Mr.  Keith  Spence ;  he  states  that  his  insolvency 
was  owing  to  the  loss  of  a  valuable  ship  and  cargo,  and  was  at- 
tended with  the  most  honorable  circumstances ;  that  an  immedi- 
ate adjustment  with  the  creditors  took  place  to  their  entire  satis- 
faction ;  that  the  deficiency  was  only  of  £1000,  which  he  con- 
siders as  remitted ;  that  Mr.  Spence  was  in  partnership  with  Mr. 
Sherburne ;  that  they  have  both  been  since  in  good  business. 


jEt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  85 

and  are  now  more  than  able  to  pay  whatever  they  may  owe ; 
that  the  failure  happened  some  years  ago ;  that  Mr.  Spence, 
though  a  native  of  Scotland,  came  early  to  this  country — is  a 
man  of  education  and  abilities,  well  known  and  respected — a 
firm  friend  to  the  Eevolution  and  to  the  National  Government — 
married  to  a  lady  of  New  Hampshire,  with  whom  he  has  several 
children.  He  showed  me  a  letter  from  Mr.  Spence,  which  gives 
a  favorable  impression  of  his  modesty  and  capacity. 

Mr.  Oilman  talks  of  Mr.  Spence  as  a  man  not  generally 
known,  and  who  being  by  birth  a  foreigner,  is  not  as  acceptable 
as  a  native  to  the  people  of  that  country ;  that  his  attachment  to 
the  American  cause  was  rather  ambiguous  ;  that  he  married  the 
daughter  of  a  person  who  is  now  in  office  in  the  Island  of  Ber- 
muda, and  lately  made  a  visit  there ;  that  his  insolvency  would 
throw  a  shade  on  his  appointment,  in  the  public  opinion. 

He,  on  the  other  hand,  warmly  recommended  a  Mr.  Wil- 
liam Gardiner,  the  present  Treasurer  of  New  Hampshire  ;  speaks 
decidedly  of  his  good  character,  and  abilities  as  a  man  of  business, 
and  of  his  general  good  standing  in  the  State. 

Mr.  Langdon  admits  Mr.  Gardiner  to  be  a  good  and  a  quali- 
fied man — says  he  was  formerly  his  first  clerk ;  but  affirms  that 
Mr.  Spence  has  greatly  the  superiority  in  point  of  qualification — 
hints  at  an  arrangement  between  Mr.  Gardiner  and  Mr.  Gilman, 
the  late  Loan  Officer,  by  which  Mr.  Gilman  expects  to  succeed  to 
the  office  of  Treasurer,  if  the  other  obtains  that  of  Commissioner 
of  Loans* 

Thus  stands  my  information,  as  far  as  it  goes;  I  conjecture, 
on  the  whole,  that  Mr.  Spence  is  an  unexceptionable  man  in 
every  respect  but  that  of  his  late  insolvency,  and  that  he  is  pro- 
bably better  qualified  than  Mr.  Gardiner,  or,  in  other  words,  a  man 
of  more  ability.  That,  nevertheless,  Mr.  Gardiner  is  qualified  for 
the  office,  and  in  other  respects  an  eligible  person.  Perhaps  the 
appointment  of  him  will  be,  upon  the  whole,  a  safer  one ;  freer 
from  hazard  of  imputation  of  any  kind. 

You  are,  I  presume,  not  unapprised  of  a  Langdon  and  Gil- 
man party  in  New  Hampshire.  Though  it  is  desirable  this 
business  should  be  finished,  yet  if  it  be  supposed  likely  that  the 


86  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  33. 

arrival  of  the  eastern  members  will  afford  any  new  light,  a  few 
days'  delay  cannot  be  very  important. 


SHOKT  TO   HAMILTON. 

Amsterdam,  Dec.  2,  1790. 

Sir: 

My  last  letter,  of  the  26th  of  November,  will  have  informed 
you  of  my  arrival  at  this  place.  I  have  been  hitherto  employed 
in  ascertaining  what  measures  would  be  most  conducive  to  the 
honor  and  interests  of  the  United  States  in  the  execution  of  the 
commission  you  have  confided  to  my  care.  In  the  course  of  this 
business  several  of  the  objects  to  which  you  directed  my  inquiries 
naturally  presented  themselves,  and  particularly  those  which  re- 
late most  immediately  to  a  present  loan. 

I  very  soon  satisfied  myself  that  the  rate  of  interest  could  not 
now  be  reduced  below  five  per  cent. ;  this  was  indicated  as  well 
by  the  loans  at  present  open  here  for  other  powers,  which  produce 
that  rate,  as  by  those  made  on  the  liquidated  debt  of  the  United 
States,  which  produce  a  higher  rate.  Besides,  the  Acts  of  Con- 
gress were  well  known  here,  and  left  no  doubt  in  the  minds  of 
those  employed  in  loans,  that  the  advantages  to  be  derived  to  the 
United  States  from  the  purchase  of  their  own  funds  at  their  pres- 
ent price  would  induce  them  to  borrow  willingly  on  those  terms. 

It  remained,  therefore,  only  to  be  examined  if  the  rate  of 
commission  paid  by  the  United  States  on  their  last  loan,  and 
which  their  bankers  had  proposed  to  me  as  the  lowest  on  which 
they  would  undertake  the  business,  could  not  be  meliorated.  To 
do  this,  it  was  necessary  to  ascertain  the  rate  paid  by  other  pow- 
ers who  borrow  here,  which  is  the  less  easy  as  it  is  an  article 
which  only  regards  the  borrower  and  the  agent,  and  which  they 
are  both  disposed  to  keep  to  themselves.  Inquiries  of  this  nature 
also  were  the  more  delicate  in  the  present  case,  because,  as  I  had 
every  reason  to  believe  it  would  be  proper  finally  to  commit  this 


JEt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  87 

business  to  those  who  have  hitherto  been  employed  in  it,  it  was 
to  be  wished  that  they  should  have  as  little  ground  as  possible  to 
suppose  in  us  a  disposition  to  suspect  or  a  desire  to  change  them. 

I  found  that  most  of  the  borrowing  nations  paid  a  much 
higher  commission,  and  I  had  good  reason  to  believe  that  the 
Emperor  alone  was  served  at  the  lower  rate  of  four  per  cent. 
After  several  conversations  with  the  agents  of  the  United  States, 
in  which  they  urged  the  impossibility  of  accepting  lower  condi- 
tions than  those  they  had  prescribed  to  themselves  in  the  last 
loan,  where  the  circumstances  under  which  they  opened  it  obliged 
them  to  confine  their  profits  to  the  lowest  possible  terms,  they 
consented  to  a  diminution  of  one-half  per  cent,  on  the  commis- 
sion, so  as  to  leave  it  at  four. 

It  was  consequently  agreed  between  us  that  they  should  open 
a  loan  for  two  millions  and  a  half  of  guilders,  equal  to  a  million 
of  dollars,  upon  the  above  terms  of  interest  and  commission,  the 
reimbursement  to  begin  at  the  end  of  ten  years,  and  to  be  com- 
pleted in  the  five  following ;  the  United  States  having  a  right  to 
reimburse  the  whole  or  any  part  of  the  same  at  any  earlier  period 
they  should  judge  proper.  This  latter  clause,  which  you  seemed 
desirous  of  retaining,  and  which  is  certainly  desirable  under  the 
circumstances  of  the  United  States,  is  admitted  here  without 
difficulty. 

Matters  being  thus  settled  between  these  houses  and  myself, 
it  still  remained  for  them  to  consult  with  the  brokers  who  are 
employed  in  this  business,  about  the  best  time  of  opening  the 
loan. 

In  the  course  of  my  different  conversations  with  the  agents, 
and  also  with  two  of  the  principal  brokers  in  the  American  busi- 
ness, with  whom  I  had  made  myself  acquainted,  I  had  already 
had  occasion  to  observe  that  they  considered  the  present  as  an 
unfavorable  moment  for  making  loans  in  general,  and  particularly 
so  or  the  United  States,  because  their  five  per  cent,  loans  were 
below  par  at  present,  owing  to  many  people  selling  out  of  these 
loai  s  in  order  to  place  their  funds  in  those  made  in  the  liquidated 
de(  ;  these  latter  producing  an  higher  rate  of  interest,  and 
presenting  also  the  United  States  ultimately  as  their  security. 


88  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  |>Et.  33. 

The  result  of  the  conference,  therefore,  which  the  bankers 
had  with  the  brokers  yesterday  evening  was,  that  if  Congress 
was  in  absolute  want  of  the  money  they  could  set  the  loan  on 
foot,  and  had  no  doubt  of  having  it  filled  before  the  expiration 
of  the  term  generally  allowed  in  these  cases — that  it  was,  how- 
ever, certain  that  it  would  go  on  slowly  and  heavily,  and  might 
thus  be  injurious  to  the  future  views  of  Congress,  as  it  appeared 
from  their  acts  they  would  have  occasion  to  make  a  series  of 
loans  ; — that  it  would,  therefore,  be  best  to  postpone  opening  the 
loan  until  the  beginning  of  February,  at  which  time  such  a  loan 
would  be  desired  on  the  market,  and  greedily  sought  after,- — 
that  if  any  favorable  circumstance  should  turn  up  sooner,  which, 
however,  they  did  not  foresee,  they  could  in  that  case  give  notice 
of  it,  and  advise  the  loan  being  brought  on  the  market. 

It  was  impossible  for  me  to  hesitate  in  subscribing  to  this 
sentiment,  concurred  in  both  by  the  bankers  and  brokers,  and 
confirmed  by  reason  and  example  ;  I  did  it  with  less  reluctance, 
because  I  saw  that  under  present  circumstances  and  agreeable  to 
the  mode  of  making  loans  here,  any  given  sum  would  be  raised 
probably  as  soon  if  brought  on  the  market  in  the  beginning  of 
February  as  at  present. 

Whenever  a  loan  is  opened,  the  undertakers,  who  are  an 
order  between  the  money  lenders  and  brokers,  require  a  certain 
time,  always  much  more  than  necessary,  for  furnishing  the  money 
for  which  they  engage,  with  the  privilege,  however,  of  furnish- 
ing it  at  any  time  sooner  if  they  think  proper,  and  this  is  done 
sooner  or  later  according  to  the  favor  with  which  the  loan  is 
received.  It  is  the  opinion  of  Stadwitzke,  particularly,  that  any 
given  number  of  loans  could  be  effected  for  the  United  States  at 
an  earlier  period,  beginning  the  first  of  February,  than  at  present, 
because  the  readiness  with  which  the  first  loan  would  probably 
be  taken  up  in  that  case  would  accelerate  the  others. 

These  considerations,  together  with  the  propriety  of  endeavor- 
ing to  augment  the  credit  of  Congress  by  having  their  loans  not 
barely  taken  up  when  brought  on  the  market,  but  sought  after 
with  avidity,  have  determined  me  to  fix  with  the  bankers  only 
the  terms  of  interest  and  commission,  and  to  leave  the  time  of 


JEt.33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  89 

opening  the  loan  dependent  on  the  circumstances  above  men- 
tioned. jNTo  inconvenience  can  result  as  to  such  parts  of  the 
money  as  you  may  destine  to  continue  the  payments  to  France  ; 
as  after  receiving  your  orders,  the  minister  may  be  authorized  to 
draw  on  this  place,  at  terms  which  may  be  adapted  to  the  agree- 
ments made  with  the  undertakers.  As  to  such  parts  as  you  may 
choose  to  call  for,  there  will  probably  be  no  inconvenience  either, 
the  terms  of  the  bills,  if  you  should  draw,  leaving  sufficient 
time  for  filling  the  loans ;  and  if  you  should  desire  the  coin  to 
be  sent,  the  delay  will  not  be  considerable. 

Having  thus  informed  you,  sir,  of  the  present  situation  of  the 
intended  loan,  and  the  particular  circumstances  which  have  led 
to  it,  I  will  endeavor  to  put  you  in  possession  of  such  parts  of 
the  general  information  you  desired  as  I  have  been  able  to  col- 
lect, premising  however,  that  from  the  time  and  manner  in 
which  these  notions  have  been  acquired,  there  may  be  some 
errors,  and  that  I  reserve  a  right  to  correct  them  in  my  future 
letters ;  these  errors  however,  I  think,  will  be  few  and  inconsid- 
erable, as  I  have  endeavored  to  keep  separate  in  my  mind  such 
information  as  appeared  to  me  ascertained  by  a  coincidence  of 
circumstances,  or  the  corroborating  evidence  of  different  people 
(counting  only  as  different  those  who  have  different  professions 
and  different  and  frequently  opposite  interests),  from  such  as  was 
derived  merely  from  isolated  conversations  with  people  of  simi- 
lar professions  and  interests. 

With  respect  to  the  footing  on  which  foreign  loans  have  been 
made  here  since  our  independence  and  at  present,  it  may  be  ob- 
served that  the  interest  of  money  has  taken  a  gradual  rise,  owing 
as  well  to  the  greater  quantities  which  are  demanded  here  by 
the  several  powers  who  borrow,  as  to  a  general  increase  of  in- 
dustry in  Europe,  which  enables  every  one  to  make  greater  profits 
from  his  capital,  in  whatever  manner  he  employs  it,  and  conse- 
quently induces  him  to  ask  more  if  he  is  a  lender,  and  enables 
him  to  give  more  if  he  is  a  borrower.  Besides  this  use,  which 
is  independent  of  the  circumstances  of  the  borrowing  powers, 
there  is  a  variation  as  to  the  facility  and  terms  on  which  they 
have  obtained  money,  relative  to  the  different  situations  in  which 


90  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  33. 

they  have  been  at  the  time  of  making  their  loans ;  such  as  war 
or  peace,  their  domestic  administration,  the  influence  of  their 
agents  employed  here,  and  the  intelligence  which  they  have  used 
in  the  time  and  manner  of  making  the  loans.  The  standing  rate 
of  interest  fifteen  years  ago  may  be  estimated  at  four  per  cent., 
as  it  may  now  at  five.  ISTo  foreign  power  who  has  occasion  to 
make  loans  here  at  present  pays  less.  Denmark  has  the  appear- 
ance of  making  a  loan  at  four,  but  it  is  only  the  exchange  of  old 
obligations  bearing  that  interest  for  others  at  the  same  rate  ;  and 
the  price  of  this  stock  in  the  market  shows  that  the  interest 
which  that  power  would  be  obliged  to  pay  on  a  new  loan  would 
be  five. 

The  borrowing  powers  here  are,  the  Emperor,  Eussia,  the 
United  States,  Denmark,  Sweden,  Poland, — I  do  not  speak  of 
domestic  loans,  as  they  are  never  considered  as  a  criterion  for 
foreign  nations.  The  East  India  Company  of  this  place  has, 
however,  lately  made  one  which  costs  them  about  five  per  cent., 
as  it  is  said.  It  was  sought  after  with  avidity  for  that  reason, 
and  because  it  was  by  lottery,  a  mode  in  which  the  lenders  are 
fond  of  placing  some  part  of  their  money,  because  it  holds  out 
the  possibility  of  extraordinary  gain,  and  also  because  they  wish 
not  only  to  multiply  the  different  persons  with  whom  they  place 
their  capital,  but  also  to  vary  the  manner  of  placing  it. 

Of  the  above  mentioned  powers,  the  Emperor  and  the  United 
States  only  have  not  a  loan  open  at  present.  The  Emperor's 
last  was  closed,  I  think,  in  June :  Poland  has  its  first  loan  on  the 
market.  The  Emperor's  five  per  cent,  stock  may  be  purchased 
at  two  per  cent,  above  par ;  that  of  Eussia  and  the  United  States 
a  little  below  par,  the  latter  particularly  at  one-half  or  three- 
fourths  per  cent.,  viz.  from  99£  to  99|  the  hundred.  The  com- 
parative degree  of  estimation  in  which  foreign  credit  is  held  by 
the  money  lenders  is,  first,  the  Emperor ;  second,  Eussia,  the  Unit- 
ed States,  and  Denmark ;  third,  Sweden ; — Poland  cannot  be  well 
judged  of  yet.  Its  credit  depends  principally  upon  its  being 
known  to  have  little  or  no  public  debt ;  on  the  prospect  of  its 
constitution  meliorating;  and  also  on  the  disposition  in  the  money 
lenders  to  multiply  as  much  as  possible  the  persons  with  whom 
they  place  their  capital. 


jEt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  91 

As  to  the  influence  which  the  war  between  England  and 
Spain  would  have  had  on  the  American  loans,  it  seems  to  me  it 
would  have  facilitated  them,  because  many  would,  in  that  case, 
have  sold  out  of  the  English  funds,  and  some  of  them  would 
have  vested  their  money  in  the  American.  It  is  proper  to 
observe,  however,  that  many  people  here  are  of  a  different  opin- 
ion, and  think  that  those  who  should  have  sold  out  would  have 
kept  their  money  to  be  revested  in  the  English  funds  when  they 
should  have  fallen  to  their  lowest.  But  as  this  war  is  now  out  of 
the  question,  it  is  useless  to  reason  on  it. 

The  extent  and  condition  of  our  loans  in  the  case  of  our  be- 
ing at  war  ourselves,  it  is  impossible  for  me  to  form  any  probable 
conjecture  about.  The  bankers,  however,  say,  that  it  would  be 
impossible  to  obtain  more  than  very  inconsiderable  sums,  and 
these  by  an  extraordinary  interest  and  extraordinary  means,  such 
as  a  lottery  of  some  kind  or  other. 

The  conditions  on  which  our  loans  are  to  be  made  at  present, 
I  have  already  mentioned.  The  extent  to  which  they  may  be 
carried  in  any  given  time,  depends  so  much  on  the  changeable 
circumstances  of  Europe,  and  their  influence  on  this  place,  that 
it  is  impossible  to  reduce  it  to  certainty.  It  seems  to  be  thought 
by  Stadwitzke,  and  by  our  bankers  also,  that  in  the  case  of  no 
other  war  taking  place  in  Europe  than  that  which  exists  at 
present  between  Eussia  and  the  Porte,  we  may  be  able  to  borrow 
from  nine  to  twelve  millions  of  guilders  in  fourteen  months  from 
this  time.  It  must  be  observed,  however,  that  in  making  this 
estimation,  they  calculated  on  the  loans  being  of  three  millions 
of  guilders  each,  and  of  their  being  opened  successively  when- 
ever there  was  a  favorable  moment.  I  did  not  think  it  neces- 
sary to  inform  them  that  the  sum  of  each  would  be  limited  to  a 
million  of  dollars,  and  that  no  succeeding  loan  would  be  oj:>ened 
until  the  preceding  one  had  been  confirmed.  I  do  not  think  it 
probable  that  the  latter  condition  will  occasion  any  delay,  as  a 
confirmation  may  generally  be  received  in  three  months.  The 
bankers  insisted  much  upon  fixing  the  loans  at  three  millions  of 
guilders,  urging  that  that  sum  was  the  one  to  which  the  under- 
takers here  were  so  much  accustomed,  that  it  would  probably 


92  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  33. 

be  as  soon  taken  up  as  one  of  two  millions  and  a  half.  I  did 
not,  however,  think  myself  authorized  to  subscribe  to  their 
wishes. 

This  view  of  the  matter  will  show  that  it  will  take  a  longer 
time  to  complete  the  sums  wanted  for  the  year  '91  than  you  had 
probably  imagined.  I  own  I  had  supposed,  before  my  arrival 
here,  that  they  might  be  obtained  sooner ;  but  the  loans  made  on 
the  liquidated  debt,  which  amount  nearly  to  six  millions  of 
guilders,  have  done  considerable  injury  to  the  loans  of  Congress. 
The  only  remedy  to  this  evil  is  in  the  rise  of  the  American 
funds  at  home.  The  calculation  here  is,  that  when  they  get  to 
fifteen  shillings  in  the  pound,  those  who  borrow  on  them  cannot 
give  more  than  five  per  cent,  interest.  In  that  case,  the  loans  of 
Congress  would  be  always  preferred.  The  lowest  interest  which 
has  yet  been  given  on  the  loans  of  the  liquidated  debt,  is  six  per 
cent.,  except,  indeed,  a  small  one  of  half  a  million  of  guilders, 
which  was  proposed  a  few  days  ago  at  five  and  a  half  per  cent. 
The  house  of  Cromelin,  who  set  it  on  foot,  finding  that  it  would 
not  take,  and  being  unwilling  to  have  the  appearance  of  having 
failed  in  an  undertaking,  withdrew  it  from  the  public,  under  pre- 
tence that  they  had  placed  it  among  their  friends.  It  is  gene- 
rally understood,  however,  that  money  cannot  be  raised  on  these 
funds  at  less  than  five  per  cent.  *  *  *  * 

As  it  was  necessary  to  ascertain  fully  whether  four  and  a-half 
per  cent,  was  really  the  lowest  terms  on  which  they  [Willinks] 
would  undertake  the  business,  I  endeavored  to  do  it  without 
giving  Congress  the  appearance  of  a  hard  employer. 

******* 

At  the  expiration  of  the  term,  they  came  and  proposed  them- 
selves the  reduction  of  one-half  per  cent,  on  the  commission, 
which  I  accepted.  During  the  course  of  our  conversations,  they  had 
urged  in  favor  of  the  terms  they  had  proposed,  that  they  never 
made  any  charge  to  Congress  for  the  disbursement  of  the  loans, 
which,  as  they  say,  is  done  by  other  branches,  and  is  from  one- 
half  to  one  per  cent.  I  know  not  whether  this  is  the  case,  and 
it  is  the  less  necessary  as  they  are  to  continue  their  usual  mode  ; 
so  as  that  the  United  States  actually  receive  and  dispose  of 


jEt.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  93 

ninety-six  florins  for  every  one  hundred  for  which  their  obliga- 
tions are  given. 


HAMILTON  TO  SETON. 

Philadelphia,  Dec.  7,  1790. 

Dear  Sir  : 

If  I  recollect  right,  my  requests  have  hitherto  referred  your 
experiments  to  the  newest  dollars.  I  want,  however,  to  know 
the  different  kinds  in  common  circulation,  and  their  average 
weight  and  respective  dates. 

Will  you  be  so  obliging,  then,  as  to  cause  different  parcels  to 
be  taken  promiscuously  out  of  the  mass  in  bank — say  about 
one  hundred  in  each  parcel,  to  cause  them  to  be  accurately 
weighed  together,  and  to  transmit  me  the  result,  together  with 
the  dates  of  the  different  kinds  in  each  parcel  ? 

The  sooner  I  can  have  this,  the  more  it  will  oblige. 

My  anxiety  respecting  the  assays  chiefly  relates  to  dollars, 
and  of  course  I  wish  them  to  be  extended  to  the  several  kinds  in 
common  circulation,  and  that  the  dates  may  be  transmitted  with 
the  results  of  the  experiments. 

These  assays  ought  not  to  be  stinted  to  too  small  portions  of 
metal.     Any  loss  will  be  thankfully  made  good. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  Dec.  13th,  1790. 


Sir: 

I  have  the  honor  to  transmit  herewith  the  copy  of  a  report 
intended  to  be  presented  to  the  House  of  Representatives  on  the 
subject  of  a  National  Bank. 

This  communication  would  have  been  earlier  made,  if  it  had 


94  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^Et.  33. 

been  in  my  power  ;  but  it  has  been  impossible  for  me  to  prepare 
it  sooner. 

With  the  most  perfect  respect,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  Dec.  loth,  1790. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  has  the  he  nor  respectfully  to 
inform  the  President  of  the  United  States,  that  a  wish  of  the 
Collector  of  Boston  to  spend  a  part  of  the  time  of  the  session 
of  Congress  at  the  seat  of  government,  has  been  intimated 
to  him.  An  absence  from  his  office  at  this  season  of  the  year 
being  the  least  likely  to  be  inconvenient,  and  it  being  probable 
that  much  useful  information  may  be  derived  from  conferences 
with  that  officer,  the  Secretary  would  gladly  transmit  to  him  the 
President's  permission,  if  it  should  be  his  pleasure  to  grant  it. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

(private.) 

Dec.  1790. 

Dear  Sir: 

Your  indisposition  has  prevented  me  from  giving  you  as 
much  trouble  in  making  my  communications  to  Congress  as 
otherwise  I  might  have  done. 

The  article  of  your  notes  which  respects  the  loan  in  Hol- 
land, I  am  somewhat  at  a  loss  to  frame  into  a  paragraph  for  the 
speech,  and  therefore  pray  your  assistance. 

I  had  got  it  as  per  the  inclosed,  but  upon  a  revision  it  does  not 
appear  right.  Be  so  good,  therefore,  as  to  new  model,  and  let 
me  have  it  (if  convenient  to  you)  this  afternoon  with  the  sums 
expressed  where  necessary. 

I  am  sincerely  yours,  &c. 


At.  33.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  95 

"In  pursuance  of  the  authority  granted  for  negotiating  a 

loan,  not  exceeding ,  application  was  made  in  Holland, 

and  I  have  the  pleasure  to  inform  you  that  a  sum  equal  to  • 

dollars  has  been  subscribed.  This  loan,  which  shows  by  its 
success  the  confidence  placed  in  the  United  States,  cannot  fail  by 
its  intended  application  to  give  additional  support  to  the  public 
credit.  The  terms  of  it,  with  the  diposition  as  far  as  made,  the 
Secretary  of  the  Treasury  is  directed  to  communicate." 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Dec.  22,  1790. 

Sir: 

I  have  the  honor  to  send  with  this  a  short  report  on  the  Post- 
Master  General's  letter. 

From  the  circumstances  of  the  case,  and  a  general  impression 
that  it  is  always  best  for  the  Chief  Magistrate  to  be  as  little  im- 
plicated as  possible  in  the  specific  approbation  of  a  particular 
measure  proceeding  from  a  particular  officer,  I  believe  it  may  be 
advisable  to   answer  generally  that  the    President  sees  with 
pleasure  the  improvements  made  in  the  contracts  for  conveying 
the  Mail;  that  he  doubts  not  a  judicious  discretion  has  been 
exercised  in  relation  to  the  several  parts  of  them.     That  (espe- 
cially where  circumstances  vary)  there  does  not  appear  to  be  a 
strict  obligation  to  prefer  the  lowest  offer,  and  that  in  the  case  of 
(Mr.  Inskeep)  the  greater  frequency  of  the  transmission  of  the 
Mail,  the  concentration  of  the  business  under  one  director,  and 
the  experience  of  the  past  good  conduct,  are  weighty  reasons  for 
the  preference  of  his  offer  meditated  by  the  Post-Master  General. 

With  the  most  respectful  attachment,  &c. 


96  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  34. 


JEFFERSON  TO  HAMILTON. 

January,  1791. 

Dear  Sir  : 

I  return  you  the  Keport  on  the  Mint,  which  I  have  read  over 
with  a  great  deal  of  satisfaction .  I  concur  with  you  in  thinking 
that  the  unit  must  stand  on  both  metals ;  that  the  alloy  should  be 
the  same  in  both ;  also  in  the  proportion  you  establish  between 
the  value  of  the  two  metals.  As  to  the  question  on  whom  the 
expense  of  coinage  is  to  fall,  I  have  been  so  little  able  to  make 
up  an  opinion  satisfactory  to  myself  as  to  be  ready  to  concur  in 
either  decision.  With  respect  to  the  dollar,  it  must  be  admitted 
by  all  the  world  that  there  is  great  uncertainty  in  the  meaning 
of  the  term,  and  therefore  all  the  world  have  justified  Congress 
for  their  first  act  of  removing  the  uncertainty  by  declaring  What 
they  understood  by  the  term  ;  but  the  uncertainty,  once  removed, 
exists  no  longer,  and  I  very  much  doubt  a  right  now  to  change 
the  value,  and  especially  to  lessen  it,  it  would  lead  to  so  easy  a 
mode  of  paying  off  their  debts ;  besides,  the  parties  injured  by 
this  reduction  of  the  value  would  have  so  much  matter  to  urge 
in  support  of  the  first  point  of  fixation.  Should  it  be  thought, 
however,  that  Congress  may  reduce  the  value  of  the  dollar,  I 
should  then  be  for  adopting  for  our  unit,  instead  of  the  dollar, 
either  one  ounce  of  pure  silver,  or  one  ounce  of  standard  silver, 
so  as  to  keep  the  unit  of  money  a  part  of  the  system  of  measures, 
weights,  and  coins.  I  hazard  these  thoughts  to  you  extempore, 
and  am,  dear  sir, 

Eespectfully  and  affectionately, 

Thomas  Jefferson. 

Col.  Hamilton. 

I  inclose  you  two  letters  just  received  from  France. 


jEt.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  97 


HAMILTON   TO   JEFFERSON. 

Philadelphia.  Jan.  11,  1791. 

Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  perused  with  attention  your  intended  Eeport  to  the 
President,  and  will,  as  I  am  sure  is  your  wish,  give  you  my 
opinion  with  frankness. 

As  far  as  a  summary  examination  enables  me  to  judge,  I 
agree  in  your  interpretation  of  the  treaty.  The  exemption 
sought  does  appear  to  be  claimable  as  a  right.  But  I  am 
not  equally  well  satisfied  of  the  policy  of  granting  it  on  the 
ground  you  suggest.  This,  in  my  mind,  stands  in  a  very  ques- 
tionable shape.  Though  there  be  a  collateral  consideration,  there 
is  a  want  of  reciprocity  in  the  thing  itself;  and  this  is  a  circum- 
stance which  materially  affects  the  general  policy  of  our  naviga- 
tion system.  The  tendency  of  the  measure  would  be  to  place 
French  vessels  upon  an  equal  footing  with  our  own  in  our  ports, 
while  our  vessels  in  the  ports  of  France  may  be  subjected  to  all 
the  duties  which  are  there  laid  on  the  mass  of  foreign  vessels.  I 
say  the  mass  of  foreign  vessels,  because  the  title  of  "  most  favored 
nation"  is  a  very  extensive  one,  the  terms  being  almost  words  of 
course  in  commercial  treaties.  And  consequently  our  own  ves- 
sels in  the  carrying  trade  between  the  United  States  and  France 
would  be  in  a  worse  situation  than  French  vessels.  This  is  the 
necessary  result  of  equal  privileges  on  one  side  and  unequal  on 
the  other,  in  favor  of  the  vessels  of  France. 

Though,  in  the  present  state  of  the  French  navigation,  little 
would  be  to  be  apprehended  from  the  regulation ;  yet,  where  the 
probable  increase  of  that  navigation  under  a  free  government  - 
considered,  it  can  hardly  be  deemed  safe  to  calculate  future  con- 
sequences from  the  actual  situation  in  this  respect. 

And  if  the  principle  of  the  regulation  cannot  be  deemed  safe 
in  a  permanent  view,  it  ought  not  to  be  admitted  temporarily ; 
for  inconvenient  precedents  are  always  embarrassing. 

On  the  whole,  I  should  be  of  opinion  that  the  introduction  of 

D  7 


98  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

such  a  principle  without  immediate  reciprocity  would  be  a  high 
price  for  the  advantage  which  it  is  intended  to  compensate. 

It  will,  no  doubt,  have  occurred  to  you  that  the  fund  has 
been  mortgaged  for  the  public  debt.  I  do  not,  however,  mention 
this  as  an  insuperable  objection ;  but  it  would  be  essential  that 
the  same  Act  which  would  destroy  this  source  of  revenue  should 
provide  an  equivalent.  This  I  consider  as  a  rule  which  ought  to 
be  sacred,  as  it  affects  public  credit. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 

P.  S. — If  you  have  any  spare  set  of  the  printed  papers,  I 
should  be  obliged  by  having  them. 


HAMILTON  TO  JEFFERSON. 

January  13th,  1791. 

Dear  Sir: 

I  thank  you  for  the  printed  papers  you  have  been  so  obliging 
as  to  send. 

I  cannot  forbear  a  conjecture  that  the  communications  of  the 
Charge  des  Affaires  of  France  are  rather  expedients  to  improve  a 
moment  in  which  it  is  perceived  questions  concerning  navigation 
are  to  be  discussed,  than  the  effects  of  serious  instructions  from 
his  court. 

Be  this  as  it  may,  I  really  have  not  thought  of  any  substi- 
tute for  your  proposition  to  which  objections  do  not  lie.  And, 
in  general,  I  have  doubts  of  the  eligibility  of  ex  parte  conces- 
sions, liable  to  be  resumed  at  pleasure.  I  had  rather  endeavor, 
by  a  new  treaty  of  commerce  with  France,  to  extend  reciprocal 
advantages,  and  fix  them  on  a  permanent  basis.  This  would  not 
only  be  more  solid,  but  it  would,  perhaps,  be  less  likely,  than 
apparently  gratuitous  and  voluntary  exemptions,  to  beget  dis- 
contents elsewhere,  especially  (as  ought  to  be  the  case)  if  each 
party  should  be  at  liberty,  for  equivalent  considerations,  to  grant 


j£t.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  99 

like  privileges  to  others.  My  commercial  system  turns  very 
much  on  giving  a  free  course  to  trade,  and  cultivating  good 
humor  with  all  the  world.  And  I  feel  a  particular  reluctance  to 
hazard  any  thing,  in  the  present  state  of  our  affairs,  which  may 
lead  to  a  commercial  warfare  with  any  power ;  which,  as  far  as 
my  knowledge  of  examples  extends,  is  commonly  productive  of 
mutual  inconvenience  and  injury,  and  of  dispositions  tending  to 
a  worse  kind  of  warfare.  Exemptions  and  preferences  which 
are  not  the  effect  of  treaty,  are  apt  to  be  regarded  by  those  who 
do  not  partake  in  them  as  proofs  of  an  unfriendly  temper 
towards  them. 


SHORT  TO   HAMILTON. 

Amsterdam,  January  25th.  1791. 

Sir: 

I  have  the  honor  of  addressing  you  this  letter  by  the  way  of  the 
English  packet,  because  contrary  winds  still  prevent  any  vessel 
leaving  the  Texel.  All  the  letters  I  have  written  to  you  by 
American  vessels  since  my  arrival  here  are  still  there.  Their 
several  dates  are  Dec.  2d,  18th,  and  30th,  January  loth.  These 
letters  were  exceedingly  prolix,  as  I  thought  it  necessary  to 
enter  into  very  particular  details,  in  order  to  give  you  as  good  an 
idea  as  I  could  of  the  different  subjects  about  which  you  wished 
to  be  informed.  Duplicates  of  the  first  and  second  were  for- 
warded by  separate  vessels.  I  informed  you  also  of  the  several 
attempts  that  had  been  made  to  purchase  the  American  debt 
due  to  France,  by  a  company  of  speculators,  and  the  present 
situation  of  that  business.  It  was  in  those  letters  alone  that  I 
gave  you  information,  also,  respecting  the  business  about  which 
you  must  be  most  anxious  to  hear.  The  long  continuance  oi 
the  contrary  wind,  and  the  uncertainty  when  it  may  cease,  in- 
duces me  to  mention  at  present,  in  general  terms,  the  terms  on 
which  the  loan  is  to  be  made,  are  the  same  with  the  last,  except 


100  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

that  the  commission  is  to  be  half  per  cent,  lower.  It  will  be 
opened  the  middle  or  latter  part  of  February. 

I  received,  accidentally,  by  the  way  of  England,  the  Presi- 
dent's speech  at  the  opening  of  Congress  ;  it  was  expected  here 
with  much  impatience,  and  has  given  much  satisfaction — extracts 
are  already  inserted  in  several  of  the  Dutch  gazettes,  as  I  find. 
In  general,  intelligence  from  the  United  States  is  sought  after 
with  much  avidity. 

I  have  received  lately,  from  M.  cle  Lafayette,  a  letter,  which 
you  sent  merely  to  introduce  to  me  Mr.  Walker,  of  New-York, 
and  who  left  it  with  him.  I  am  sorry  not  to  have  seen  this  gen- 
tleman, that  I  might  have  had  an  opportunity,  sir,  of  paying 
proper  attention  to  your  recommendation.  M.  de  Lafayette  had 
previously  informed  me,  that  he  had  left  with  him  also  a  large 
packet  with  the  seal  of  the  Treasury  Office.  He  understood  that 
the  contents  did  not  render  it  necessary  to  send  it  to  me  to  this 
place,  and  has  therefore  kept  it  at  Paris.  I  conjecture  that  they 
are  the  papers  promised  in  your  letter  of  September  1st. 

I  inclose  you  a  general  state  of  the  exportations  from  Peters- 
burg for  the  last  year ;  and  a  particular  one  of  those  made  to 
the  United  States  in  their  own  shipping.  Prod,  is  a  weight  equal 
to  about  thirty-six  pounds  English.  Arsh,  is  a  measure  with 
which  I  am  unacquainted.  We  may  hope,  from  the  effect  of  our 
wise  regulations  in  America,  to  have  less  need  in  future  of 
foreign  aid  for  many  of  these  articles.  Our  shipping  will  then 
find  other  employment,  notwithstanding  the  rapid  increase  which 
may  be  counted  on  with  certainty.  You  will  see  in  the  general 
state  that  Great  Britain  employs  more  ships  in  this  business  than 
all  the  other  nations  together,  and  yet  their  minister  seems 
decided  to  take  measures  in  the  Spring  which  would  at  least 
arrest  this  business  for  some  time.  He  must  probably  think  such 
measures  indispensable  or  he  would  not  venture  to  paralyze  so 
important  a  member  of  the  national  commerce.  Many  say,  how- 
ever, that  this  is  one  of  the  instances  in  which  cabinets  sacrifice 
commerce  to  politics. 

Before  I  left  Paris  I  was  promised  by  the  Farmer  General  a 
particular  state  of  our  commerce  with  France  for  the  first  six 


jEt.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  101 

months  of  the  year,  and  at  the  end  of  the  year  another  for  that 
term.  I  gave  directions  to  send  a  copy  of  it  to  you ;  but  as  I  do 
not  find  that  that  which  was  for  myself  has  been  received,  I  fear 
yours  has  not  been  sent  either.  I  will  endeavor  to  procure  a  state 
for  the  whole  year  immediately,  and  send  it  to  you. 

For  the  present  situation  of  European  politics  I  beg  leave  to 
refer  you  to  my  letter  of  yesterday  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  in 
which  this  will  be  inclosed. 


WASHINGTON   TO   THE   PRESIDENT    OF   THE   NATIONAL   ASSEMBLY 

OF  FRANCE. 

Draft  by  Hamilton. 

Philadelphia,  27th  January.  1791. 

Sir: 

I  received  with  particular  satisfaction,  and  imparted  to  Con- 
gress, the  communication  made  by  the  President's  letter  of  the 
20th  of  June  last,  in  the  name  of  the  National  Assembly  of 
France.  So  peculiar  and  so  signal  an  expression  of  the  esteem 
of  that  respectable  body  for  a  citizen  of  the  United  States,  whose 
eminent  and  patriotic  services  are  indelibly  engraved  on  the 
minds  of  his  countrymen,  cannot  fail  to  be  appreciated  by  them 
as  it  ought  to  be.  On  my  part,  I  assure  you,  sir,  that  I  am 
sensible  of  all  its  value. 

The  circumstances,  which,  under  the  patronage  of  a  monarch, 
who  has  proved  himself  to  be  the  friend  of  the  people  over  whom 
he  reigns,  have  promised  the  blessings  of  liberty  to  the  French 
nation,  could  not  have  been  uninteresting  to  the  free  citizens  of 
the  United  States ;  especially  when  they  recollected  the  disposi- 
tions which  were  manifested  by  the  individuals  as  well  as  by  the 
government  of  that  nation,  towards  their  still  recent  exertions  in 
support  of  their  own  rights. 

It  is  with  real  pleasure,  sir,  that  I  embrace  the  opportunity 
now  afforded  me,  of  testifying  through  you  to  the  National  As- 


102  HAMILTON'S     WORKS.  [Mr.  34. 

sembly,  the  sincere,  cordial,  and  earnest  wish  I  entertain,  that 
their  labors  may  speedily  issue  in  the  firm  establishment  of  a 
constitution,  which,  by  wisely  conciliating  the  indispensable  prin- 
ciples of  public  order  with  the  enjoyment  and  exercise  of  the 
essential  rights  of  man,  shall  perpetuate  the  freedom  and  happi- 
ness of  the  people  of  France. 

The  impressions  naturally  produced  by  similarity  of  political 
sentiment  are  justly  to  be  regarded  as  causes  of  national  sympa- 
thy, calculated  to  confirm  the  amicable  ties,  which  may  otherwise 
subsist  between  nations.  This  reflection,  independent  of  its 
more  particular  reference,  must  dispose  every  benevolent  mind 
to  unite  in  the  wish,  that  a  general  diffusion  of  the  true  principles 
of  liberty,  assimilating  as  well  as  ameliorating  the  condition  of 
mankind,  and  fostering  the  maxims  of  an  ingenuous  and  virtuous 
policy,  may  tend  to  strengthen  the  fraternity  of  the  human  race, 
to  assuage  the  jealousies  and  animosities  of  its  various  sub- 
divisions, and  to  convince  them  more  and  more,  that  their  true 
interest  and  felicity  will  best  be  promoted  by  mutual  good  will 
and  universal  harmony. 

The  friendship,  to  which  the  President  alludes  in  the  close  of 
his  letter,  has  caused  me  to  perceive  with  particular  pleasure  that 
one,  who  had  endeared  himself  to  this  country  by  an  ardent  zeal 
and  by  useful  efforts  in  the  cause  of  liberty,  has  by  the  same 
title  acquired  the  confidence  and  affection  of  his  own.  May  it 
ever  be  his  chief  aim  to  continue  to  be  beloved,  as  one  of  her 
most  virtuous  and  most  faithful  citizens. 

I  beg  you  to  accept  my  acknowledgments  for  the  sentiments 
in  the  same  letter,  which  relate  more  particularly  to  myself,  and 
at  the  same  time  to  be  assured  of  the  most  perfect  consideration 
on  the  part  of,  &c. 


Mt.  34.1  CABINET    PAPERS.  103 


WASHINGTON  TO   HAMILTON. 

Philadelphia,  Feb.  16,  1791. 

Sir: 

An  Act  to  incorporate  the  subscribers  to  the  Bank  of  the 
United  States  is  now  before  me  for  consideration. 

The  constitutionality  of  it  is  objected  to.  It  therefore  becomes 
more  particularly  my  duty  to  examine  the  ground  on  which  the 
objection  is  built.  As  a  mean  of  investigation,  I  have  called 
upon  the  Attorney-General  of  the  United  States,  in  whose  line 
it  seemed  more  particularly  to  be,  for  his  official  examination  and 
opinion.  His  Eeport  is,  that  the  Constitution  does  not  warrant 
the  Act.  I  then  applied  to  the  Secretary  of  State  for  his  senti- 
ments on  this  subject.  These  coincide  with  the  Attorney-Gen- 
eral's ;  and  the  reasons  for  their  opinions  having  been  submitted 
in  writing,  I  now  require,  in  like  manner,  yours  on  the  valid- 
ity and  propriety  of  the  above-recited  Act ;  and,  that  you  may 
know  the  points  on  which  the  Secretary  of  State  and  the  Attor- 
ney-General dispute  the  constitutionality  of  the  Act,  and  that  I 
may  be  fully  possessed  of  the  arguments  for  and  against  the 
measure,  before  I  express  any  opinion  of  my  own,  I  give  you  an 
opportunity  of  examining  and  answering  the  objections  contained 
in  the  inclosed  papers.  I  require  the  return  of  them  when  your 
own  sentiments  are  handed  to  me  (which  I  wish  may  be  as  soon 
as  is  convenient) ;  and  further,  that  no  copies  of  them  be  taken, 
as  it  is  for  my  own  satisfaction  they  have  been  called  for. 


HAMILTON   TO   WASHINGTON. 


Monda\ . 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  presents  his  respects  to  the 
President  of  the  United  States,  to  request  his  indulgence  for  not 
having  yet  furnished  his  reasons  on  a  certain  point.    He  has  been 


104  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

ever  since  sedulously  engaged  in  it,  but  finds  it  will  be  impos- 
sible to  complete  it  before  Tuesday  evening  or  Wednesday 
morning  early.  He  is  anxious  to  give  the  point  a  thorough 
examnation. 


HAMILTON   TO   WASHINGTON. 


The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  presents  his  respects  to  the 
President,  and  sends  him  the  opinion  required,  which  occupied 
him  the  greatest  part  of  last  night. 

The  bill  for  extending  the  time  of  opening  subscriptions 
passed  yesterday  unanimously  to  an  order  for  engrossing. 

Opinion  as  to  the  Constitutionality  of  the  Bank  of  the  United  States. 

February  23d,  1791. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  having  perused  with  attention 
the  papers  containing  the  opinions  of  the  Secretary  of  State  and 
Attorney-General,  concerning  the  constitutionality  of  the  bill  for 
establishing  a  National  Bank,  proceeds,  according  to  the  order  of 
the  President,  to  submit  the  reasons  which  have  induced  him  to 
entertain  a  different  opinion. 

It  will  naturally  have  been  anticipated,  that  in  performing 
this  task,  he  would  feel  uncommon  solicitude.  Personal  con- 
siderations alone,  arising  from  the  reflection  that  the  measure 
originated  with  him,  would  be  sufficient  to  produce  it.  The 
sense  which  he  has  manifested  of  the  great  importance  of  such 
an  institution  to  the  successful  administration  of  the  department 
under  his  particular  care,  and  an  expectation  of  serious  ill  con- 
sequences to  result  from  a  failure  of  the  measure,  do  not  permit 
him  to  be  without  anxiety  on  public  accounts.  But  the  chief 
solicitude  arises  from  a  firm  persuasion,  that  principles  of  con- 
struction like  those  espoused  by  the  Secretary  of  State  and  At- 
torney-General, would  be  fatal  to  the  just  and  indispensable 
authoritv  of  the  United  States. 


Mt.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  105 

In  entering  upon  the  argument,  it  ought  to  be  premised  that 
the  objections  of  the  Secretary  of  State  and  Attorney- General 
are  founded  on  a  general  denial  of  the  authority  of  the  United 
States  to  erect  corporations.  The  latter,  indeed,  expressly  ad- 
mits, that  if  there  be  any  thing  in  the  bill  which  is  not  warranted 
by  the  Constitution,  it  is  the  clause  of  incorporation. 

Now  it  appears  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  that  this 
general  principle  is  inherent  in  the  very  definition  of  government, 
and  essential  to  every  step  of  the  progress  to  be  made  by  that  of 
the  United  States,  namely :  That  every  power  vested  in  a  gov- 
ernment is  in.  its  nature  sovereign,  and  includes,  by  force  of  the 
term,  a  right  to  employ  all  the  means  requisite  and  fairly  appli- 
cable to  the  attainment  of  the  ends  of  such  power,  and  which  are 
not  precluded  by  restrictions  and  exceptions  specified  in  the 
Constitution,  or  not  immoral,  or  not  contrary  to  the  essential  ends 
of  political  society. 

This  principle,  in  its  application  to  government  in  general, 
would  be  admitted  as  an  axiom  ;  and  it  will  be  incumbent  upon 
those  who  may  incline  to  deny  it,  to  prove  a  distinction,  and  to 
show  that  a  rule  which,  in  the  general  system  of  things,  is 
essential  to  the  preservation  of  the  social  order,  is  inapplicable 
to  the  United  States. 

The  circumstance  that  the  powers  of  sovereignty  are  in  this 
county  divided  between  the  National  and  State  governments, 
does  not  afford  the  distinction  required.  It  does  not  follow  from 
this,  that  each  of  the  portion  of  powers  delegated  to  the  one  or  to 
the  other,  is  not  sovereign  with  regard  to  its  proper  objects.  It  will 
only  follow  from  it,  that  each  has  sovereign  power  as  to  certain 
tilings,  and  not  as  to  other  things.  To  deny  that  the  government 
of  the  United  States  has  sovereign  power,  as  to  its  declared  pur- 
poses and  trusts,  because  its  power  does  not  extend  to  all  cases, 
would  be  equally  to  deny  that  the  State  governments  have 
sovereign  power  in  any  case,  because  their  power  does  not  ex- 
tend to  every  case.  The  tenth  section  of  the  first  article  of  the 
Constitution  exhibits  a  long  list  of  very  important  things  which 
they  may  not  do.  And  thus  the  United  States  would  furnish 
the  singular  spectacle  of  a  political  society  without  sovereignty,  or 
of  a  people  governed,  without  government. 


106  HAMILTON'S     WORKS.  [At.  34. 

If  it  would  be  necessary  to  bring  proof  to  a  proposition  so 
clear,  as  that  which  affirms  that  the  powers  of  the  federal  gov- 
ernment, as  to  its  objects,  were  sovereign,  there  is  a  clause  of  its 
Constitution  which  would  be  decisive.  It  is  that  which  declares 
that  the  Constitution,  and  the  laws  of  the  United  States  made  in 
pursuance  of  it,  and  all  treaties  made,  or  which  shall  be  made, 
under  their  authority,  shall  be  the  supreme  law  of  the  land.  The 
power  which  can  create  the  supreme  law  of  the  land  in  any  case,  is 
doubtless  sovereign  as  to  such  case. 

This  general  and  indisputable  principle  puts  at  once  an  end 
to  the  abstract  question,  whether  the  United  States  have  power 
to  erect  a  corporation ;  that  is  to  say,  to  give  a  legal  or  artificial 
capacity  to  one  or  more  persons,  distinct  from  the  natural.  For 
it  is  unquestionably  incident  to  sovereign  power  to  erect  corpora- 
tions, and  consequently  to  that  of  the  United  States,  in  relation  to 
the  objects  intrusted  to  the  management  of  the  government.  The 
difference  is  this :  where  the  authority  of  the  government  is  gen- 
eral, it  can  create  corporations  in  all  cases  ;  where  it  is  confined  to 
certain  branches  of  legislation,  it  can  create  corporations  only  in 
those  cases. 

Here  then,  as  far  as  concerns  the  reasonings  of  the  Secretary 
of  State  and  the  Attorney-General,  the  affirmative  of  the  consti- 
tutionality of  the  bill  might  be  permitted  to  rest.  It  will  occur 
to  the  President,  that  the  principle  here  advanced  has  been  un- 
touched by  either  of  them. 

For  a  more  complete  elucidation  of  the  point,  nevertheless, 
the  arguments  which  they  had  used  against  the  power  of  the 
government  to  erect  corporations,  however  foreign  they  are  to 
the  great  and  fundamental  rule  which  has  been  stated,  shall  be 
particularly  examined.  And  after  showing  that  they  do  not 
tend  to  impair  its  force,  it  shall  also  be  shown  that  the  power  of 
incorporation,  incident  to  the  government  in  certain  cases,  does 
fairly  extend  to  the  particular  case  which  is  the  object  of  the  bill. 

The  first  of  these  arguments  is,  that  the  foundation  of  the 
Constitution  is  laid  on  this  ground :  "  That  all  powers  not  dele- 
gated to  the  United  States  by  the  Constitution,  nor  prohibited  to 
it  by  the  States,  are  reserved  for  the  States,  or  to  the  people." 


Mr.  84.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  107 

Whence  it  is  meant  to  be  inferred,  that  Congress  can  in  no  case 
exercise  any  power  not  included  in  those  not  enumerated  in  the 
Constitution.  And  it  is  affirmed,  that  the  power  of  erecting  a 
corporation  is  not  included  in  any  of  the  enumerated  powers. 

The  main  proposition  here  laid  down,  in  its  true  signification 
is  not  to  be  questioned.  It  is  nothing  more  than  a  consequence 
of  this  republican  maxim,  that  all  government  is  a  delegation  of 
power.  But  how  much  is  delegated  in  each  case,  is  a  question 
of  fact,  to  be  made  out  by  fair  reasoning  and  construction,  upon 
the  particular  provisions  of  the  Constitution,  taking  as  guides 
the  general  principles  and  general  ends  of  governments. 

It  is  not  denied  that  there  are  implied,  as  well  as  express  pow- 
ers, und  that  the  former  are  as  effectually  delegated  as  the  latter. 
And  for  the  sake  of  accuracy  it  shall  be  mentioned,  that  there  is 
another  class  of  powers,  which  may  be  properly  denominated 
resulting  powers.  It  will  not  be  doubted,  that  if  the  United  States 
should  make  a  conquest  of  any  of  the  territories  of  its  neighbors, 
they  would  possess  sovereign  jurisdiction  over  the  conquered 
territory.  This  would  be  rather  a  result,  from  the  whole  mass 
of  the  powers  of  the  government,  and  from  the  nature  of  politi- 
cal society,  than  a  consequence  of  either  of  the  powers  specially 
enumerated. 

But  be  this  as  it  may,  it  furnishes  a  striking  illustration  of 
the  general  doctrine  contended  for ;  it  shows  an  extensive  case, 
in  which  a  power  of  erecting  corporations  is  either  implied  in, 
or  would  result  from,  some  or  all  of  the  powers  vested  in  the 
national  government.  The  jurisdiction  acquired  over  such  con- 
quered country  would  certainly  be  competent  to  any  species  of 
legislation. 

To  return : — It  is  conceded  that  implied  powers  are  to  be  con- 
sidered as  delegated  equally  with  express  ones.  Then  it  follows, 
that  as  a  power  of  erecting  a  corporation  may  as  well  be  implied 
as  any  other  thing,  it  may  as  well  be  employed  as  an  instrument 
or  mean  of  carrying  into  execution  any  of  the  specified  powers, 
as  any  other  instrument  or  mean  whatever.  The  only  question 
must  be,  in  this,  as  in  every  other  case,  whether  the  mean  to  be 
employed,  or  in  this  instance,  the  corporation  to  be  erected,  has 


108  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  34. 

a  natural  relation  to  any  of  the  acknowledged  objects  or  lawful 
ends  of  the  government.  Thus  a  corporation  may  not  be  erected 
by  Congress  for  superintending  the  police  of  the  city  of  Phila- 
delphia, because  they  are  not  authorized  to  regulate  the  police  of 
that  city.  But  one  may  be  erected  in  relation  to  the  collection 
of  taxes,  or  to  the  trade  with  foreign  countries,  or  to  the  trade 
between  the  States,  or  with  the  Indian  tribes ;  because  it  is  the 
province  of  the  federal  government  to  regulate  those  objects,  and 
because  it  is  incident  to  a  general  sovereign  or  legislative  power  to 
regulate  a  thing,  to  employ  all  the  means  which  relate  to  its  regu- 
lation to  the  best  and  greatest  advantage. 

A  strange  fallacy  seems  to  have  crept  into  the  manner  of 
thinking  and  reasoning  upon  the  subject.  Imagination  appears  to 
have  been  unusually  busy  concerning  it.  An  incorporation 
seems  to  have  been  regarded  as  some  great  independent  substantive 
thing;  as  a  political  end  of  peculiar  magnitude  and  moment; 
whereas  it  is  truly  to  be  considered  as  a  quality,  capacity,  or  mean 
to  an  end.  Thus  a  mercantile  company  is  formed,  with  a  certain 
capital,  for  the  purpose  of  carrying  on  a  particular  branch  of 
business.  Here  the  business  to  be  prosecuted  is  the  end.  The 
association,  in  order  to  form  the  requisite  capital,  is  the  primary 
mean.  Suppose  that  an  incorporation  were  added  to  this,  it 
would  only  be  to  add  a  new  quality  to  that  association,  to  give  it 
an  artificial  capacity,  b}^  which  it  would  be  enabled  to  prosecute 
the  business  with  more  safety  and  convenience. 

That  the  importance  of  the  power  of  incorporation  has  been 
exaggerated,  leading  to  erroneous  conclusions,  will  further  ap- 
pear from  tracing  it  to  its  origin.  The  Koman  law  is  the  source 
of  it,  according  to  which  a  voluntary  association  of  individuals,  at 
any  time,  or  for  any  purpose,  was  capable  of  producing  it.  In 
England,  whence  our  notions  of  it  are  immediately  borrowed,  it 
forms  part  of  the  executive  authority,  and  the  exercise  of  it  has 
been  often  delegated  by  that  authority.  Whence,  therefore,  the 
ground  of  the  supposition  that  it  lies  beyond  the  reach  of  all 
those  very  important  portions  of  sovereign  power,  legislative  as 
well  as  executive,  which  belongs  to  the  government  of  the  United 
States  ? 


JEr.  34.]  CABINET     PAPERS.  109 

Through  this  mode  of  reasoning  respecting  the  right  of 
employing  all  the  means  requisite  to  the  execution  of  the  speci- 
fied powers  of  the  government,  it  is  objected,  that  none  but 
necessary  and  proper  means  are  to  be  employed ;  and  the  Secre- 
tary of  State  maintains,  that  no  means  are  to  be  considered  as 
necessary  but  those  without  which  the  grant  of  the  power  would 
be  nugatory.  Kay,  so  far  does  he  go  in  his  restrictive  interpreta- 
tion of  the  word,  as  even  to  make  the  case  of  necessity  which  shall 
warrant  the  constitutional  exercise  of  the  power  to  depend  on 
casual  and  temporary  circumstances ;  an  idea  which  alone  refutes 
the  construction.  The  expediency  of  exercising  a  particular  power, 
at  a  particular  time,  must,  indeed,  depend  on  circumstances ;  but 
the  constitutional  right  of  exercising  it  must  be  uniform  and  in- 
variable, the  same  to-day  as  to-morrow. 

All  the  arguments,  therefore,  against  the  constitutionality  of 
the  bill  derived  from  the  accidental  existence  of  certain  State 
banks, — institutions  which  happen  to  exist  to-day,  and,  for  aught 
that  concerns  the  government  of  the  United  States,  may  disap- 
pear to-morrow, — must  not  only  be  rejected  as  fallacious,  but 
must  be  viewed  as  demonstrative  that  there  is  a  radical  source  of 
error  in  the  reasoning. 

It  is  essential  to  the  being  of  the  national  government,  that 
so  erroneous  a  conception  of  the  meaning  of  the  word  necessary 
should  be  exploded. 

It  is  certain,  that  neither  the  grammatical  nor  popular  sense 
of  the  term  requires  that  construction.  According  to  both,  neces- 
sary often  means  no  more  than  needful,  requisite,  incidental,  useful, 
or  conducive  to.  It  is  a  common  mode  of  expression  to  say,  that 
it  is  necessary  for  a  government  or  a  person  to  do  this  or  that 
thing,  when  nothing  more  is  intended  or  understood,  than  that 
the  interests  of  the  government  or  person  require,  or  will  be  pro- 
moted by,  the  doing  of  this  or  that  thing.  The  imagination  can 
be  at  no  loss  for  exemplifications  of  the  use  of  the  word  in  this 
sense.  And  it  is  the  true  one  in  which  it  is  to  be  understood  as 
used  in  the  Constitution.  The  whole  turn  of  the  clause  contain- 
ing it  indicates,  that  it  was  the  intent  of  the  Convention,  by  that 
clause,  to  give  a  liberal  latitude  to  the  exercise  of  the  specified 


110  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^t.  34. 

powers.  The  expressions  have  peculiar  comprehensiveness. 
They  are,  "  to  make  all  laws  necessary  and  proper  for  carrying 
into  execution  the  foregoing  powers,  and  all  other  powers  vested  by 
the  Constitution  in  the  government  of  the  United  States,  or  in  any 
department  or  officer  thereof." 

To  understand  the  word  as  the  Secretary  of  State  does, 
would  be  to  depart  from  its  obvious  and  popular  sense,  and  to 
give  it  a  restrictive  operation,  an  idea  never  before  entertained. 
It  would  be  to  give  it  the  same  force  as  if  the  word  absolutely  or 
indispensably  had  been  prefixed  to  it. 

Such  a  construction  would  beget  endless  uncertainty  and 
embarrassment.  The  cases  must  be  palpable  and  extreme,  in 
which  it  could  be  pronounced,  with  certainty,  that  a  measure  was 
absolutely  necessary,  or  one,  without  which,  the  exercise  of  a 
given  power  would  be  nugatory.  There  are  few  measures  of 
any  government  which  would  stand  so  severe  a  test.  To  insist 
upon  it,  would  be  to  make  the  criterion  of  the  exercise  of  any 
implied  power,  a  case  of  extreme  necessity  ;  which  is  rather  a  rule 
to  justify  the  overleaping  of  the  bounds  of  constitutional  autho- 
rity, than  to  govern  the  ordinary  exercise  of  it. 

It  may  be  truly  said  of  every  government,  as  well  as  of  that 
of  the  United  States,  that  it  has  only  a  right  to  pass  such  laws  as 
are  necessary  and  proper  to  accomplish  the  objects  intrusted  to 
it.  For  no  government  has  a  right  to  do  merely  what  it  pleases. 
Hence,  by  a  process  of  reasoning  similar  to  that  of  the  Secretary 
of  State,  it  might  be  proved  that  neither  of  the  State  govern- 
ments has  a  right  to  incorporate  a  bank.  It  might  be  shown 
that  all  the  public  business  of  the  state  could  be  performed  with- 
out a  bank,  and  inferring  thence  that  it  was  unnecessary,  it  might 
be  argued  that  it  could  not  be  done,  because  it  is  against  the  rule 
which  has  been  just  mentioned.  A  like  mode  of  reasoning  would 
prove  that  there  was  no  power  to  incorporate  the  inhabitants  of 
a  town,  with  a  view  to  a  more  perfect  police.  For  it  is  certain 
that  an  incorporation  may  be  dispensed  with,  though  it  is  better 
to  have  one.  It  is  to  be  remembered  that  there  is  no  express 
power  in  any  State  constitution  to  erect  corporations. 

The  degree  in  which  a  measure  is  necessary,  can  never  be  a 


jEt.  34.]  CABINET     PAPERS.  Ill 

test  of  the  legal  right  to  adopt  it ;  that  must  be  a  matter  of  opinion, 
and  can  only  be  a  test  of  expediency.  The  relation  between  the 
measure  and  the  end  ;  between  the  nature  of  the  mean  employed 
towards  the  execution  of  a  power,  and  the  object  of  that  power, 
must  be  the  criterion  of  constitutionality,  not  the  more  or  less  of 
necessity  or  utility. 

The  practice  of  the  government  is  against  the  rule  of  con- 
struction advocated  by  the  Secretary  of  State.  Of  this,  the  Act 
concerning  light-houses,  beacons,  buoys,  and  public  piers,  is  a 
decisive  example.  This,  doubtless,  must  be  referred  to  the 
powers  of  regulating  trade,  and  is  fairly  relative  to  it.  But  it 
cannot  be  affirmed  that  the  exercise  of  that  power  in  this  in- 
stance was  strictly  necessary,  or  that  the  power  itself  would  be 
nugatory,  without  that  of  regulating  establishments  of  this  nature. 

This  restrictive  interpretation  of  the  word  necessary  is  also 
contrary  to  this  sound  maxim  of  construction ;  namely,  that  the 
powers  contained  in  a  constitution  of  government,  especially 
those  which  concern  the  general  administration  of  the  affairs 
of  a  country,  its  finances,  trade,  defence,  &c,  ought  to  be 
construed  liberally  in  advancement  of  the  public  good.  This 
rule  does  not  depend  on  the  particular  form  of  a  government,  or 
on  the  particular  demarkation  of  the  boundaries  of  its  powers, 
but  on  the  nature  and  objects  of  government  itself.  The  means 
by  which  national  exigencies  are  to  be  provided  for,  national  in- 
conveniences obviated,  national  prosperity  j)romoted,  are  of  such 
infinite  variety,  extent,  and  complexity,  that  there  must  of  neces- 
sity be  great  latitude  of  discretion  in  the  selection  and  application 
of  those  means.  Hence,  consequently,  the  necessity  and  propri- 
ety of  exercising  the  authorities  intrusted  to  a  government  on 
principles  of  liberal  construction. 

The  Attorney-General  admits  the  rule,  but  takes  a  distinction 
between  a  State  and  the  Federal  Constitution.  The  latter,  he 
thinks,  ought  to  be  construed  with  greater  strictness,  because 
there  is  more  danger  of  error  in  defining  partial  than  general 
powers.  But  the  reason  of  the  rule  forbids  such  a  distinction. 
This  reason  is,  the  variety  and  extent  of  public  exigencies,  a  far 
greater  proportion  of  which,  and  of  a  far  more  critical  kind,  are 


112  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^Et.  34. 

objects  of  National  than  of  State  administration.  The  greater 
danger  of  error,  as  far  as  it  is  supposable,  may  be  a  prudential 
reason  for  caution  in  practice,  but  it  cannot  be  a  rule  of  restric- 
tive interpretation. 

In  regard  to  the  clause  of  the  Constitution  immediately  un- 
der consideration,  it  is  admitted  by  the  Attorney-General,  that 
no  restrictive  effect  can  be  ascribed  to  it.  He  defines  the  word 
necessary  thus:  "To  be  necessary  is  to  be  incidental,  and  may  be 
denominated  the  natural  means  of  executing  a  power." 

But  while  on  the  one  hand  the  construction  of  the  Secretary  of 
State  is  deemed  inadmissible,  it  will  not  be  contended,  on  the  other, 
that  the  clause  in  question  gives  any  new  or  independent  power.  But 
it  gives  an  explicit  sanction  to  the  doctrine  of  implied  powers,  and 
is  equivalent  to  an  admission  of  the  proposition  that  the  govern- 
ment, as  to  its  specified  powers  and  objects,  has  plenary  and  sover- 
eign authority,  in  some  cases  paramount  to  the  States ;  in  others, 
co-ordinate  with  it.  For  such  is  the  plain  import  of  the  declara- 
tion, that  it  may  pass  all  laws  necessary  and  proper  to  carry  into 
execution  those  powers. 

It  is  no  valid  objection  to  the  doctrine  to  say,  that  it  is  calcu- 
lated to  extend  the  power  of  the  general  government  through- 
out the  entire  sphere  of  State  legislation.  The  same  thing  has 
been  said,  and  may  be  said,  with  regard  to  every  exercise  of 
power  by  implication  or  construction. 

The  moment  the  literal  meaning  is  departed  from,  there  is  a 
chance  of  error  and  abuse.  And  yet  an  adherence  to  the  letter 
of  its  powers  would  at  once  arrest  the  motions  of  government. 
It  is  not  only  agreed,  on  all  hands,  that  the  exercise  of  construc- 
tive powers  is  indispensable,  but  every  act  which  has  been 
passed  is  more  or  less  an  exemplification  of  it.  One  has  been 
already  mentioned — that  relating  to  light-houses,  &c. — that 
which  declares  the  power  of  the  President  to  remove  officers 
at  pleasure,  acknowledges  the  same  truth  in  another  and  a 
signal  instance. 

The  truth  is,  that  difficulties  on  this  point  are  inherent  in  the 
nature  of  the  Federal  Constitution ;  they  result  inevitably  from 
a  division  of  the  legislative  power.     The  consequence  of  this 


iET.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  113 

division  is,  that  there  will  be  cases  clearly  within  the  power  of 
the  national  government ;  others,  clearly  without  its  powers ; 
and  a  third  class,  which  will  leave  room  for  controversy  and  dif- 
ference of  opinion,  and  concerning  which  a  reasonable  latitude  of 
judgment  must  be  allowed. 

But  the  doctrine  which  is  contended  for  is  not  chargeable 
with  the  consequences  imputed  to  it.  It  does  not  affirm  that  the 
national  government  is  sovereign  in  all  respects,  but  that  it  is 
sovereign  to  a  certain  extent ;  that  is,  to  the  extent  of  the  objects 
of  its  specified  powers. 

It  leaves,  therefore,  a  criterion  of  what  is  constitutional,  and 
of  what  is  not  so.  This  criterion  is  the  end,  to  which  the  meas- 
ure relates  as  a  mean.  If  the  end  be  clearly  comprehended  within 
any  of  the  specified  powers,  and  if  the  measure  have  an  obvious 
relation  to  that  end,  and  is  not  forbidden  by  any  particular  pro- 
vision of  the  Constitution,  it  may  safely  be  deemed  to  come 
within  the  compass  of  the  national  authority.  There  is  also  this 
further  criterion,  which  may  materially  assist  the  decision: 
Does  the  proposed  measure  abridge  a  pre-existing  right  of  any 
State  or  of  any  individual  ?  If  it  does  not,  there  is  a  strong 
presumption  in  favor  of  its  constitutionality,  and  slighter  rela- 
tions to  any  declared  object  of  the  Constitution  may  be  permit- 
ted to  turn  the  scale. 

The  general  objections,  which  are  to  be  inferred  from  the 
reasonings  of  the  Secretary  of  State  and  Attorney-General,  to 
the  doctrine  which  has  been  advanced,  have  been  stated,  and  it 
is  hoped  satisfactorily  answered.  Those  of  a  more  particular 
nature  shall  now  be  examined. 

The  Secretary  of  State  introduces  his  opinion  with  an  ob- 
servation, that  the  proposed  incorporation  undertakes  to  create 
certain  capacities,  properties,  or  attributes,  which  are  against  the 
laws  of  alienage,  descents,  escheat,  and  forfeiture,  distribution  and 
monopoly,  and  to  confer  a  power  to  make  laws  paramount  to 
those  of  the  States.  And  nothing,  says  he,  in  another  place,  but 
necessity,  invincible  by  oilier  means,  can  justify  such  a  prostration  of 
laws,  which  constitute  the  pillars  of  our  whole  system  of  juris- 
prudence, and  are  the  foundation  laws  of  the  State  governments. 
d  8 


114  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

If  these  are  truly  the  foundation  laws  of  the  several  States,  then 
have  most  of  them  subverted  their  own  foundations.  For  there 
is  scarcely  one  of  them  which  has  not,  since  the  establishment 
of  its  particular  constitution,  made  material  alterations  in  some 
of  those  branches  of  its  jurisprudence,  especially  the  law  of 
descents.  But  it  is  not  conceived  how  any  thing  can  be  called 
the  fundamental  law  of  a  State  government  which  is  not  estab- 
lished in  its  constitution,  unalterable  by  the  ordinary  legislature. 
And,  with  regard  to  the  question  of  necessity,  it  has  been  shown 
that  this  can  only  constitute  a  question  of  expediency,  not  of 
right. 

To  erect  a  corporation,  is  to  substitute  a  legal  or  artificial  to 
a  natural  person,  and  where  a  number  are  concerned,  to  give 
them  individuality.  To  that  legal  or  artificial  person,  once  cre- 
ated, the  common  law  of  every  State,  of  itself,  annexes  all  those 
incidents  and  attributes  which  are  represented  as  a  prostration  of 
the  main  pillars  of  their  jurisprudence. 

It  is  certainly  not  accurate  to  say,  that  the  erection  of  a  cor- 
poration is  against  those  different  heads  of  the  State  laws ;  be- 
cause it  is  rather  to  create  a  kind  of  person  or  entity,  to  which 
they  are  inapplicable,  and  to  which  the  general  rule  of  those  laws 
assign  a  different  regimen.  The  laws  of  alienage  cannot  apply 
to  an  artificial  person,  because  it  can  have  no  country  ;  those  of 
descent  cannot  apply  to  it,  because  it  can  have  no  heirs  ;  those 
of  escheat  are  foreign  from  it,  for  the  same  reason ;  those  of  for- 
feiture, because  it  cannot  commit  a  crime  ;  those  of  distribution, 
because,  though  it  may  be  dissolved,  it  cannot  die. 

As  truly  might  it  be  said,  that  the  exercise  of  the  power  of 
prescribing  the  rule  by  which  foreigners  shall  be  naturalized,  is 
against  the  law  of  alienage,  while  it  is,  in  fact,  only  to  put  them 
in  a  situation  to  cease  to  be  the  subject  of  that  law.  To  do  a 
-thing  which  is  against  a  law,  is  to  do  something  which  it  forbids, 
or  which  is  a  violation  of  it. 

But  if  it  were  even  to  be  admitted  that  the  erection  of  a  cor- 
poration is  a  direct  alteration  of  the  stated  laws,  in  the  enume- 
rated particulars,  it  would  do  nothing  towards  proving  that  the 
measure  was  unconstitutional.    If  the  government  of  the  United 


jEt.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  115 

States  can  do  no  act  which  amounts  to  an  alteration  of  a  State 
law,  all  its  powers  are  nugatory ;  for  almost  every  new  law  is  an 
alteration,  in  some  way  or  other,  of  an  old  law,  either  common  or 
statute. 

There  are  laws  concerning  bankruptcy  in  some  States.  Some 
States  have  laws  regulating  the  values  of  foreign  coins.  Con- 
gress are  empowered  to  establish  uniform  laws  concerning  bank- 
ruptcy throughout  the  United  States,  and  to  regulate  the  values 
of  foreign  coins.  The  exercise  of  either  of  these  powers  by 
Congress,  necessarily  involves  an  alteration  of  the  laws  of  those 
States. 

Again.  Every  person,  by  the  common  law  of  each  State, 
may  export  his  property  to  foreign  countries,  at  pleasure.  But 
Congress,  in  pursuance  of  the  power  of  regulating  trade,  may 
prohibit  the  exportation  of  commodities;  in  doing  which,  they 
would  alter  the  common  law  of  each  State,  in  abridgment  of 
individual  right. 

It  can  therefore  never  be  good  reasoning  to  say  this  or  that 
act  is  unconstitutional,  because  it  alters  this  or  that  law  of  a 
State.  It  must  be  shown  that  the  act  which  makes  the  altera- 
tion is  unconstitutional  on  other  accounts ;  not  because  it  makes 
the  alteration. 

There  are  two  points  in  the  suggestions  of  the  Secretary  of 
State,  which  have  been  noted,  that  are  peculiarly  incorrect.  One 
is,  that  the  proposed  incorporation  is  against  the  laws  of  mo- 
nopoly, because  it  stipulates  an  exclusive  right  of  banking 
under  the  national  authority;  the  other,  that  it  gives  power 
to  the  institution  to  make  laws  paramount  to  those  of  the 
States. 

But,  with  regard  to  the  first  point:  The  bill  neither  pro- 
hibits any  State  from  erecting  as  many  banks  as  they  please, 
nor  any  number  of  individuals  from  associating  to  carry  on  the 
business,  and  consequently,  is  free  from  the  charge  of  establish- 
ing a  monopoly  ;  for  monopoly  implies  a  legal  impediment  to  the 
carrying  on  of  the  trade  by  others  than  those  to  whom  it  is 
granted. 

And  with  regard  to   the  second  point,  there  is  still  less 


116  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

foundation.  The  by-laws  of  such  an  institution  as  a  bank  can 
operate  only  on  its  own  members — can  only  concern  the  dis- 
position of  its  own  property,  and  must  essentially  resemble  the 
rules  of  a  private  mercantile  partnership.  They  are  expressly 
not  to  be  contrary  to  law ;  and  law  must  here  mean  the  law  of  a 
State,  as  well  as  of  the  United  States.  There  never  can  be  a 
doubt,  that  a  law  of  a  corporation,  if  contrary  to  a  law  of  a 
State,  must  be  overruled  as  void,  unless  the  law  of  the  State  is 
contrary  to  that  of  the  United  States,  and  then  the  question  will 
not  be  between  the  law  of  the  State  and  that  of  the  corpora- 
tion, but  between  the  law  of  the  State  and  that  of  the  United 
States. 

Another  argument  made  use  of  by  the  Secretary  of  State  is, 
the  rejection  of  a  proposition  by  the  Convention  to  empower 
Congress  to  make  corporations,  either  generally,  or  for  some 
special  purpose. 

What  was  the  precise  nature  or  extent  of  this  proposition,  or 
what  the  reasons  for  refusing  it,  is  not  ascertained  by  any  authen- 
tic document,  or  even  by  accurate  recollection.  As  far  as  any 
such  document  exists,  it  specifies  only  canals.  If  this  was  the 
amount  of  it,  it  would,  at  most,  only  prove  that  it  was  thought  in- 
expedient to  give  a  power  to  incorporate  for  the  purpose  of  open- 
ing canals,  for  which  purpose  a  special  power  would  have  been  ne- 
cessary, except  with  regard  to  the  western  territory,  there  being 
nothing  in  any  part  of  the  Constitution  respecting  the  regulation 
of  canals.  It  must  be  confessed,  however,  that  very  different 
accounts  are  given  of  the  import  of  the  proposition,  and  of  the 
motives  for  rejecting  it.  Some  affirm,  that  it  was  confined  to  the 
opening  of  canals  and  obstructions  in  rivers ;  others,  that  it  em- 
braced banks ;  and  others,  that  it  extended  to  the  power  of  incor- 
porating generally.  Some,  again,  allege,  that  it  was  disagreed  to 
because  it  was  thought  improper  to  vest  in  Congress  a  power  of 
erecting  corporations.  Others,  because  it  was  thought  unneces- 
sary to  specify  the  power,  and  inexpedient  to  furnish  an  additional 
topic  of  objection  to  the  Constitution.  In  this  state  cC  the  matter, 
no  inference  whatever  can  be  drawn  from  it. 

But  whatever  may  have  been  the  nature  of  the  proposition, 


jEt.34.]  cabinet    papers.  117 

or  the  reasons  for  rejecting  it,  includes  nothing  in  respect  to  the 
real  merits  of  the  question.  The  Secretary  of  State  will  not  deny, 
that,  whatever  may  have  been  the  intention  of  the  framers  of  a 
constitution,  or  of  a  law,  that  intention  is  to  be  sought  for  in  the 
instrument  itself,  according  to  the  usual  and  established  rules  of 
construction.  Nothing  is  more  common  than  for  laws  to  express 
and  effect  more  or  less  than  was  intended.  If,  then,  a  power  to 
erect  a  corporation  in  any  case  be  deducible,  by  fair  inference, 
from  the  whole  or  any  part  of  the  numerous  provisions  of  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States,  arguments  drawn  from  extrin- 
sic circumstances  regarding  the  intention  of  the  Convention 
must  be  rejected. 

Most  of  the  arguments  of  the  Secretary  of  State,  which  have 
not  been  considered  in  the  foregoing  remarks,  are  of  a  nature 
rather  to  apply  to  the  expediency  than  to  the  constitutionality  of 
the  bill.  They  will,  however,  be  noticed  in  the  discussions  which 
will  be  necessary  in  reference  to  the  particular  heads  of  the  pow- 
ers of  the  government  which  are  involved  in  the  question. 

Those  of  the  Attorney-General  will  now  properly  come  under 
view. 

His  first  objection  is,  that  the  power  of  incorporation  is  not 
expressly  given  to  Congress.  This  shall  be  conceded,  but  in  this 
sense  only,  that  it  is  not  declared  in  express  terms  that  Congress 
may  erect  a  corporation.  But  this  cannot  mean,  that  there  are 
not  certain  express  powers  which  necessarily  include  it.  For  in- 
stance, Congress  have  express  power  to  exercise  exclusive  legis- 
lation, in  all  cases  whatsoever,  over  such  district  (not  exceeding 
ten  miles  square)  as  may,  by  cession  of  particular  States  and  the 
acceptance  of  Congress,  become  the  seat  of  the  government  of  the 
United  States ;  and  to  exercise  like  authority  over  all  places  pur- 
chased, by  consent  of  the  legislature  of  the  State  in  which  the 
same  shall  be,  for  the  erection  of  forts,  arsenals,  dock-yards,  and 
other  needful  buildings.  Here,  then,  is  express  power  to  exer- 
cise exclusive  legislation,  in  all  cases  whatsoever,  over  certain  places  ; 
that  is,  to  do,  in  respect  to  those  places,  all  that  any  government 
whatsoever  may  do.  For  language  does  not  afford  a  more  com- 
plete designation  of  sovereign  power  than  in  those  comprehensive 


118  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  34. 

terms.  It  is,  in  other  words,  a  power  to  pass  all  laws  whatsoever, 
and,  consequently,  to  pass  laws  for  erecting  corporations,  as  well 
as  for  any  other  purpose  which  is  the  proper  object  of  law  in  a 
free  government. 

Surely  it  can  never  be  believed  that  Congress,  with  exclusive 
poioers  of  legislation  in  all  cases  whatsoever,  cannot  erect  a  corpo- 
ration within  the  district  which  shall  become  the  seat  of  govern- 
ment, for  the  better  regulation  of  its  police.  And  yet  there  is  an 
unqualified  denial  of  the  power  to  erect  corporations  in  every 
ease,  on  the  part  both  of  the  Secretary  of  State  and  of  the  Attor- 
ney-General ;  the  former,  indeed,  speaks  of  that  power  in  these 
emphatical  terms :  That  it  is  a  right  remaining  exclusively  with  the 
States. 

As  far,  then,  as  there  is  an  express  power  to  do  any  particular 
act  of  legislation,  there  is  an  express  one  to  erect  a  corporation  in 
the  case  above  described.  But,  accurately  speaking,  no  par- 
ticular power  is  more  than  that  implied  in  a  general  one.  Thus 
the  power  to  lay  a  duty  on  a  gallon  of  rum  is  only  a  particular 
implied  in  the  general  power  to  lay  and  collect  taxes,  duties,  im- 
posts, and  excises.  This  serves  to  explain  in  what  sense  it  may 
be  said  that  Congress  have  not  an  express  power  to  make  corpo- 
rations. 

This  may  not  be  an  improper  place  to  take  notice  of  an  argu- 
ment which  was  used  in  debate  in  the  House  of  Eepresentatives. 
It  was  there  argued,  that  if  the  Constitution  intended  to  confer  so 
important  a  power  as  that  of  erecting  corporations,  it  would  have 
been  expressly  mentioned.  But  the  case  which  has  been  noticed 
is  clearly  one  in  which  such  a  power  exists,  and  yet  without  any 
specification  or  express  grant  of  it,  further  than  as  every  particu- 
lar implied  in  a  general  power  can  be  said  to  be  so  granted. 

But  the  argument  itself  is  founded  upon  an  exaggerated  and 
erroneous  conception  of  the  nature  of  the  power.  It  has  been 
shown  that  it  is  not  of  so  transcendent  a  kind  as  the  reasoning 
supposes,  and  that,  viewed  in  a  just  light,  it  is  a  mean,  which 
ought  to  have  been  left  to  implication,  rather  than  an  end,  which 
ought  to  have  been  expressly  granted. 

Having  ooserved  that  the  power  of  erecting  corporations  is 


^t.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  119 

not  expressly  granted  to  Congress,  the  Attorney-General  pro- 
ceeds thus : — 

"If  it  can  be  exercised  by  them,  it  must  be — ■ 

"  1.  Because  the  nature  of  the  federal  government  implies  it. 

"2.  Because  it  is  involved  in  some  of  the  specified  powers  of 
legislation. 

"  3.  Because  it  is  necessary  and  proper  to  carry  into  execu- 
tion some  of  the  specified  powers." 

To  be  implied  in  the  nature  of  the  federal  government,  says  he, 
would  beget  a  doctrine  so  indefinite  as  to  grasp  at  every  power. 

This  proposition,  it  ought  to  be  remarked,  is  not  precisely,  or 
even  substantially,  that  which  has  been  relied  upon.  The  pro- 
position relied  upon  is,  that  the  specified  powers  of  Congress  are  in 
their  nature  sovereign.  That  it  is  incident  to  sovereign  power 
to  erect  corporations,  and  that  therefore  Congress  have  a  right, 
within  the  sphere  and  in  relation  to  the  objects  of  their  power,  to 
erect  corporations.  It  shall,  however,  be  supposed  that  the  Attor- 
ney-General would  consider  the  two  propositions  in  the  same 
light,  and  that  the  objection  made  to  the  one  would  be  made  to 
the  other. 

To  this  objection  an  answer  has  been  already  given.  It  is 
this,  that  the  doctrine  is  stated  with  this  express  qualification,  that 
the  right  to  erect  corporations  does  only  extend  to  cases  and  objects 
within  the  sphere  of  the  specified  powers  of  the  government.  A 
general  legislative  authority  implies  a  power  to  erect  corporations 
in  all  cases.  A  particular  legislative  power  implies  authority  to 
erect  corporations  in  relation  to  cases  arising  under  that  power 
only.  Hence  the  affirming  that,  as  incident  to  sovereign  power, 
Congress  may  erect  a  corporation  in  relation  to  the  collection  of 
their  taxes,  is  no  more  than  to  affirm  that  they  may  do  whatever 
else  they  please, — than  the  saying  that  they  have  a  power  to 
regulate  trade,  would  be  to  affirm  that  they  have  a  power  to 
regulate  religion;  or  than  the  maintaining  that  they  have  sov- 
ereign power  as  to  taxation,  would  be  to  maintain  that  they  have 
sovereign  power  as  to  every  thing  else. 

The  Attorney-General  undertakes  in  the  next  place  to  show, 
that  the  power  of  erecting  corporations  is  not  involved  in  any 


120  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

of  the  specified  powers  of  legislation  confided  to  the  national 
government.  In  order  to  this,  he  has  attempted  an  enumeration 
of  the  particulars,  which  he  supposes  to  be  comprehended  under 
the  several  heads  of  the  powers  to  lay  and  collect  taxes,  &c. ;  to 
borrow  money  on  the  credit  of  the  United  States ;  to  regulate 
commerce  with  sovereign  nations ;  between  the  States,  and  with 
the  Indian  tribes ;  to  dispose  of  and  make  all  needful  rules  and 
regulations  respecting  the  territory  or  other  property  belonging 
to  the  United  States.  The  design  of  which  enumeration  is  to 
show,  what  is  included  under  those  different  heads  of  power,  and 
negatively,  that  the  power  of  erecting  corporations  is  not  included, 

The  truth  of  this  inference  or  conclusion  must  depend  on  the 
accuracy  of  the  enumeration.  If  it  can  be  shown  that  the 
enumeration  is  defective,  the  inference  is  destroyed.  To  do  this 
will  be  attended  with  no  difficulty. 

The  heads  of  the  power  to  lay  and  collect  taxes  are  stated 
to  be: 

1.  To  stipulate  the  sum  to  be  lent. 

2.  An  interest  or  no  interest  to  be  paid. 

3.  The  time  and  manner  of  repaying,  unless  the  loan  be 
placed  on  an  irredeemable  fund. 

This  enumeration  is  liable  to  a  variety  of  objections.  It 
omits  in  the  first  place,  the  pledging  or  mortgaginy  of  a  fund  for 
the  security  of  the  money  lent,  an  usual,  and  in  most  cases  an 
essential  ingredient. 

The  idea  of  a  stipulation  of  an  interest  or  no  interest  is  too 
confined.  It  should  rather  have  been  said,  to  stipulate  the  con- 
sideration of  the  loan.  Individuals  often  borrow  on  considera- 
tions other  than  the  payment  of  interest,  so  may  governments, 
and  so  they  often  find  it  necessary  to  do.  Every  one  recollects 
the  lottery  tickets  and  other  douceurs  often  given  in  Great  Britain 
as  collateral  inducements  to  the  lending  of  money  to  the  govern- 
ment. There  are  also  frequently  collateral  conditions,  which  the 
enumeration  does  not  contemplate.  Every  contract  which  has 
been  made  for  moneys  borrowed  in  Holland,  induces  stipulations 
that  the  sum  due  shall  be  free  from  taxes,  and  from  sequestration 
in  time  of  war,  and  mortgages  all  the  land  and  property  of  the 
United  States  for  the  reimbursement. 


jEt.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  121 

It  is  also  known  that  a  lottery  is  a  common  expedient  for 
borrowing  money,  which  certainly  does  not  fall  under  either  of 
the  enumerated  heads. 

The  heads  of  the  power  to  regulate  commerce  with  foreign 
nations,  are  stated  to  be: 

1.  To  prohibit  them  or  their  commodities  from  our  ports. 

2.  To  impose  duties  on  them,  where  none  existed  before,  or  to 
increase  existing  duties  on  them. 

3.  To  subject  them  to  any  species  of  custom-house  regulation. 

4.  To  grant  them  any  exemptions  or  privileges  which  policy 
may  suggest. 

This  enumeration  is  far  more  exceptionable  than  either  of  the 
former.  It  omits  every  thing  that  relates  to  the  citizens7  vessels,  or 
commodities  of  the  United  States. 

The  following  palpable  omissions  occur  at  once : 

1.  Of  the  power  to  prohibit  the  exportation  of  commodities, 
which  not  only  exists  at  all  times,  but  which  in  time  of  war  it 
would  be  necessary  to  exercise,  particularly  with  relation  to  naval 
and  warlike  stores. 

2.  Of  the  power  to  prescribe  rules  concerning  the  characteris- 
tics and  privileges  of  an  American  bottom ;  how  she  shall  be 
navigated,  or  whether  by  citizens  or  foreigners,  or  by  a  propor- 
tion of  each. 

3.  Of  the  power  of  regulating  the  manner  of  contracting  with 
seamen ;  the  police  of  ships  on  their  voyages,  &c,  of  which  the 
Act  for  the  government  and  regulation  of  seamen,  in  the  mer- 
chants' service,  is  a  specimen. 

That  the  three  preceding  articles  are  omissions,  will  not  be 
doubted — there  is  a  long  list  of  items  in  addition,  which  admit 
of  little,  if  any  question,  of  which  a  few  samples  shall  be  given. 

1.  The  granting  of  bounties  to  certain  kinds  of  vessels,  and 
certain  species  of  merchandise  of  this  nature,  is  the  allowance  on 
dried  and  pickled  fish  and  salted  provisions. 

2.  The  prescribing  of  rules  concerning  the  inspection  of  com- 
modities to  be  exported.  Though  the  States  individually  are 
competent  to  this  regulation,  yet  there  is  no  reason,  in  point  of 
authority  at  least,  why  a  general  system  might  not  be  adopted  by 
the  United  States. 


122  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  34. 

3.  The  regulation  of  policies  of  insurance ;  of  salvage  upon 
goods  found  at  sea,  and  the  disposition  of  such  goods. 

4.  The  regulation  of  pilots. 

5.  The  regulation  of  bills  of  exchange  drawn  by  a  merchant 
of  one  State  upon  a  merchant  of  another  State.  This  last  rather 
belongs  to  the  regulation  of  trade  between  the  States,  but  is 
equally  omitted  in  the  specification  under  that  head. 

The  last  enumeration  relates  to  the  power  to  dispose  of,  and 
make  all  needful  rules  and  regulations  respecting  the  territory  or 
other  property  belonging  to  the  United  States. 

The  heads  of  this  power  are  said  to  be  : 

1.  To  exert  an  ownership  over  the  territory  of  the  United 
States,  which  may  be  properly  called  the  property  of  the  United 
States,  as  in  the  western  territory,  and  to  institute  a  government 
therein,  or 

2.  To  exert  an  ownership  over  the  other  property  of  the 
United  States. 

The  idea  of  exerting  an  ownership  over  the  territory  or  other 
property  of  the  United  States,  is  particularly  indefinite  and 
vague.  It  does  not  at  all  satisfy  the  conception  of  what  must 
have  been  intended  by  a  power  to  make  all  needful  rules  and 
regulations,  nor  would  there  have  been  any  use  for  a  special 
clause,  which  authorized  nothing  more.  For  the  right  of  exert- 
ing an  ownership  is  implied  in  the  very  definition  of  property. 
It  is  admitted,  that  in  regard  to  the  western  territory,  something 
more  is  intended ;  even  the  institution  of  a  government,  that  is, 
the  creation  of  a  body  politic,  or  corporation  of  the  highest 
nature ;  one  which,  in  its  maturity,  will  be  able  itself  to  create 
other  corporations.  Wiry,  then,  does  not  the  same  clause  autho- 
rize the  erection  of  a  corporation,  in  respect  to  the  regulation  or 
disposal  of  any  other  of  the  property  of  the  United  States? 

This  idea  will  be  enlarged  upon  in  another  place. 

Hence  it  appears,  that  the  enumerations  which  have  been 
attempted  by  the  Attorney-General,  are  so  imperfect,  as  to  autho- 
rize no  conclusion  whatever;  they  therefore  have  no  tendency 
to  disprove  that  each  and  every  of  the  powers,  to  Avhich  they 
relate,   includes  that  of  erecting  corporations,  which  they  cer- 


JEt.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  123 

tainly  do,  as  the  subsequent  illustrations  will  more  and  more 
evince. 

It  is  presumed  to  have  been  satisfactorily  shown  in  the  course 
of  the  preceding  observations  : 

1.  That  the  power  of  the  government,  as  to  the  objects  in- 
trusted to  its  management,  is,  in  its  nature,  sovereign. 

2.  That  the  right  of  erecting  corporations  is  one  inherent  in, 
and  inseparable  from,  the  idea  of  sovereign  power. 

3.  That  the  position,  that  the  government  of  the  United 
States  can  exercise  no  power  but  such  as  is  delegated  to  it  by  its 
Constitution,  does  not  militate  against  this  principle. 

4.  That  the  word  necessary,  in  the  general  clause,  can  have  no 
restrictive  operation  derogating  from  the  force  of  this  principle ; 
indeed,  that  the  degree  in  which  a  measure  is-  or  is  not  necessary, 
cannot  be  a  test  of  constitutional  right,  but  of  expediency  only. 

5.  That  the  power  to  erect  corporations  is  not  to  be  consider- 
ed as  an  independent  or  substantive  power,  but  as  an  incidental  and 
auxiliary  one,  and  was  therefore  more  properly  left  to  implica- 
tion, than  expressly  granted. 

6.  That  the  principle  in  question  does  not  extend  the  power 
of  the  government  beyond  the  prescribed  limits,  because  it  only 
affirms  a  power  to  incorporate  for  purposes  zuithin  the  sphere  of 
the  specified  poivers. 

And  lastly,  that  the  right  to  exercise  such  a  power  in  certain 
cases  is  unequivocally  granted  in  the  most  positive  and  compre- 
hensive terms.  To  all  which  it  only  remains  to  be  added,  that 
such  a  power  has  actually  been  exercised  in  two  very  eminent 
instances ;  namely,  in  the  erection  of  two  governments ;  one 
northwest  of  the  River  Ohio,  and  the  other  southwest — the  last 
independent  of  any  antecedent  compact.  And  these  result  in  a 
full  and  complete  demonstration,  that  the  Secretary  of  State  and 
Attorney-General  are  mistaken  when  they  deny  generally  the 
power  of  the  national  government  to  erect  corporations. 

It  shall  now  be  endeavored  to  be  shown  that  there  is  a  power 
to  erect  one  of  the  kind  proposed  by  the  bill.  This  will  be  done 
by  tracing  a  natural  and  obvious  relation  between  the  institution 
of  a  bank  and  the  objects  of  several  of  the  enumerated  powers 


124  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^t.  34. 

of  the  government ;  and  by  showing  that,  politically  speaking,  it 
is  necessary  to  the  effectual  execution  of  one  or  more  of  those 
powers. 

In  the  course  of  this  investigation,  various  instances  will  be 
stated,  by  way  of  illustration  of  a  right  to  erect  corporations 
under  those  powers. 

Some  preliminary  observations  may  be  proper. 

The  proposed  bank  is  to  consist  of  an  association  of  persons, 
for  the  purpose  of  creating  a  joint  capital,  to  be  employed  chiefly 
and  essentially  in  loans.  So  far  the  object  is  not  only  lawful,  but 
it  is  the  mere  exercise  of  a  right  which  the  law  allows  to  every 
individual.  The  Bank  of  New- York,  which  is  not  incorporated, 
is  an  example  of  such  an  association.  The  bill  proposes  in  ad- 
dition, that  the  government  shall  become  a  joint  proprietor  in 
this  undertaking,  and  that  it  shall  permit  the  bills  of  the  compa- 
ny, payable  on  demand,  to  be  receivable  in  its  revenues;  and 
stipulates  that  it  shall  not  grant  privileges,  similar  to  those  which 
are  to  be  allowed  to  this  company,  to  any  others.  All  this  is 
incontrovertibly  within  the  compass  of  the  discretion  of  the 
government.  The  only  question  is,  whether  it  has  a  right  to  in- 
corporate this  company,  in  order  to  enable  it  the  more  effectually 
to  accomplish  ends  which  are  in  themselves  lawful. 

To  establish  such  a  right,  it  remains  to  show  the  relation  of 
such  an  institution  to  one  or  more  of  the  specified  powers  of  the 
government.  Accordingly  it  is  affirmed  that  it  has  a  relation, 
more  or  less  direct,  to  the  power  of  collecting  taxes,  to  that  of 
borrowing  money,  to  that  of  regulating  trade  between  the  States, 
and  to  those  of  raising  and  maintaining  fleets  and  armies.  To 
the  two  former  the  relation  may  be  said  to  be  immediate ;  and  in 
the  last  place  it  will  be  argued,  that  it  is  clearly  within  the  pro- 
vision which  authorizes  the  making  of  all  needful  rules  and  regu- 
lations concerning  the  property  of  the  United  States,  as  the  same 
has  been  practised  upon  by  the  government. 

A  bank  relates  to  the  collection  of  taxes  in  two  ways — indi- 
rectly, by  increasing  the  quantity  of  circulating  medium  and 
quickening  circulation,  which  facilitates  the  means  of  paying  di- 
rectly, by  creating  a  convenient  species  of  medium  in  which  they 
are  to  be  paid. 


jEt.34.]  cabinet    papers.  125 

To  designate  or  appoint  the  money  or  thing  in  which  taxes  are 
to  be  paid,  is  not  only  a  proper,  but  a  necessary  exercise  of  the 
power  of  collecting  them.  Accordingly  Congress,  in  the  law  con- 
cerning the  collection  of  the  duties  on  imposts  and  tonnage,  have 
provided  that  they  shall  be  paid  in  gold  and  silver.  But  while 
it  was  an  indispensable  part  of  the  work  to  say  in  what  they 
should  be  paid,  the  choice  of  the  specific  thing  was  mere  matter 
of  discretion.  The  payment  might  have  been  required  in  the 
commodities  themselves.  Taxes  in  kind,  however  ill-judged,  are 
not  without  precedents,  even  in  the  United  States ;  or  it  might 
have  been  in  the  paper  money  of  the  several  States,  or  in  the 
bills  of  the  Bank  of  North  America,  New- York  and  Massachu- 
setts, all  or  either  of  them ;  or  it  might  have  been  in  bills  issued 
under  the  authority  of  the  United  States. 

No  part  of  this  can,  it  is  presumed,  be  disputed.  The  ap- 
pointment, then,  of  the  money  or  thing  in  which  the  taxes  are  to 
be  paid,  is  an  incident  to  the  power  of  collection.  And  among 
the  expedients  which  may  be  adopted,  is  that  of  bills  issued  un- 
der the  authority  of  the  United  States. 

Now  the  manner  of  issuing  these  bills  is  again  matter  of  dis- 
cretion. The  government  might  doubtless  proceed  in  the  follow- 
ing manner : 

It  might  provide  that  they  should  be  issued  under  the  direc- 
tion of  certain  officers,  payable  on  demand ;  and,  in  order  to 
support  their  credit,  and  give  them  a  ready  circulation,  it  might, 
besides  giving  them  a  currency  in  its  taxes,  set  apart,  out  of  any 
moneys  in  its  treasury,  a  given  sum,  and  appropriate  it,  under 
the  direction  of  those  officers,  as  a  fund  for  answering  the  bills, 
as  presented  for  payment. 

The  constitutionality  of  all  this  would  not  admit  of  a  ques- 
tion, and  yet  it  would  amount  to  the  institution  of  a  bank,  with 
a  view  to  the  more  convenient  collection  of  taxes.  For  the  sim- 
plest and  most  precise  idea  of  a  bank  is,  a  deposit  of  coin,  or 
other  property,  as  a  fund  for  circulating  a  credit  upon  it,  which  is 
to  answer  the  purpose  of  money.  That  such  an  arrangement 
would  be  equivalent  to  the  establishment  of  a  bank,  would  be- 
come obvious,  if  the  place  where  the  fund  to  be  set  apart  was 


126  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

kept  should  be  made  a  receptacle  of  the  moneys  of  all  other  per- 
sons who  should  incline  to  deposit  them  there  for  safe-keeping ;  and 
would  become  still  more  so,  if  the  officers  charged  with  the  direc- 
tion of  the  fund  were  authorized  to  make  discounts  at  the  usual 
rate  of  interest,  upon  good  security.  To  deny  the  power  of  the 
government  to  add  these  ingredients  to  the  plan,  would  be  to 
refine  away  all  government. 

A  further  process  will  still  more  clearly  illustrate  the  point. 
Suppose,  when  the  species  of  bank  which  has  been  described  was 
about  to  be  instituted,  it  was  to  be  urged  that,  in  order  to  secure 
to  it  a  due  degree  of  confidence,  the  fund  ought  not  only  to  be 
set  apart  and  appropriated  generally,  but  ought  to  be  specifically 
vested  in  the  officers  who  were  to  have  the  direction  of  it,  and  in 
their  successors  in  office,  to  the  end  that  it  might  acquire  the 
character  of  private  property,  incapable  of  being  resumed  without 
a  violation  of  the  sanctions  by  which  the  rights  of  property  are 
protected,  and  occasioning  more  serious  and  general  alarm — the 
apprehension  of  which  might  operate  as  a  check  upon  the  gov- 
ernment. Such  a  proposition  might  be  opposed  by  arguments 
against  the  expediency  of  it,  or  the  solidity  of  the  reason  as- 
signed for  it,  but  it  is  not  conceivable  what  could  be  urged 
against  its  constitutionality ;  and  yet  such  a  disposition  of  the 
thing  would  amount  to  the  erection  of  a  corporation ;  for  the 
true  definition  of  a  corporation  seems  to  be  this  :  It  is  a  legal  per- 
son, or  a  person  created  by  act  of  law,  consisting  of  one  or 
more  natural  persons  authorized  to  hold  property,  or  a  franchise 
in  succession,  in  a  legal,  as  contradistinguished  from  natural, 
capacity. 

Let  the  illustration  proceed  a  step  further.  Suppose  a  bank 
of  the  nature  which  has  been  described,  with  or  without  incorpo- 
ration, had  been  instituted,  and  that  experience  had  evinced,  as 
it  probably  would,  that,  being  wholly  under  a  public  direction, 
it  possessed  not  the  confidence  requisite  to  the  credit  of  the  bills. 
Suppose,  also,  that,  by  some  of  those  adverse  conjunctures  which 
occasionally  attend  nations,  there  had  been  a  very  great  drain  of 
the  specie  of  the  country,  so  as  not  only  to  cause  general  distress 
for  want  of  an  adequate  medium  of  circulation,  but  to  produce, 


Mt.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  127 

in  consequence  of  that  circumstance,  considerable  defalcations  in 
the  public  revenues.  Suppose,  also,  that  there  was  no  bank 
instituted  in  any  State ;  in  such  a  posture  of  things,  would  it  not 
be  most  manifest,  that  the  incorporation  of  a  bank  like  that 
proposed  by  the  bill  would  be  a  measure  immediately  relative  to 
the  effectual  collection  of  the  taxes,  and  completely  within  the  pro- 
vince of  the  sovereign  power  of  providing,  by  all  laws  necessary 
and  proper,  for  that  collection  ?  If  it  be  said,  that  such  a  state  of 
things  would  render  that  necessary,  and  therefore  constitutional, 
which  is  not  so  now,  the  answer  to  this,  and  a  solid  one  it  doubt- 
less is,  must  still  be  that  which  has  been  already  stated — circum- 
stances may  affect  the  expediency  of  the  measure,  but  they  can 
neither  add  to  nor  diminish  its  constitutionality. 

A  bank  has  a  direct  relation  to  the  power  of  borrowing 
money,  because  it  is  an  usual,  and  in  sudden  emergencies  an 
essential,  instrument  in  the  obtaining  of  loans  to  government. 

A  nation  is  threatened  with  a  war ;  large  sums  are  wanted  on 
a  sudden  to  make  the  requisite  preparations.  Taxes  are  laid  for 
the  purpose,  but  it  requires  time  to  obtain  the  benefit  of  them. 
Anticipation  is  indispensable.  If  there  be  a  bank,  the  supply 
can  at  once  be  had.  If  there  be  none,  loans  from  individuals 
must  be  sought.  The  progress  of  these  is  often  too  slow  for  the 
exigency;  in  some  situations  they  are  not  practicable  at  all. 
Frequently,  when  they  are,  it  is  of  great  consequence  to  be  able 
to  anticipate  the  product  of  them  by  advance  from  a  bank. 

The  essentiality  of  such  an  institution  as  an  instrument  of 
loans,  is  exemplified  at  this  very  moment.  An  Indian  expedi- 
tion is  to  be  prosecuted.  The  only  fund,  out  of  which  the  money 
can  arise,  consistently  with  the  public  engagements,  is  a  tax, 
which  only  begins  to  be  collected  in  July  next.  The  prepara- 
tions, however,  are  instantly  to  be  made.  The  money  must, 
therefore,  be  borrowed — and  of  whom  could  it  be  borrowed  it 
there  were  no  public  banks  ? 

It  happens  that  there  are  institutions  of  this  kind,  but  if  there 
were  none,  it  would  be  indispensable  to  create  one. 

Let  it  then  be  supposed  that  the  necessity  existed,  (as  but  for 
a  casualty  would  be  the  case,)  that  proposals  were  made  for  ob- 


128  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

taining  a  loan  ;  that  a  number  of  individuals  name  forward  and 
said,  we  are  willing  to  accommodate  the  government  with  the 
money ;  with  what  we  have  in  hand,  and  the  credit  we  can  raise 
upon  it,  we  doubt  not  of  being  able  to  furnish  the  sum  required ; 
but  in  order  to  this,  it  is  indispensable  that  we  should  be  incor- 
porated as  a  bank.  This  is  essential  towards  putting  it  in  our 
power  to  do  what  is  desired;  and  we  are  obliged  on  that  account 
to  make  it  the  consideration  or  condition  of  the  loan. 

Can  it  be  believed  that  a  compliance  with  this  proposition 
would  be  unconstitutional  ?  Does  not  this  alone  evince  the  con- 
trary ?  It  is  a  necessary  part  of  a  power  to  borrow,  to  be  able 
to  stipulate  the  consideration  or  conditions  of  a  loan.  It  is 
evident,  as  has  been  remarked  elsewhere,  that  this  is  not  confined 
to  the  mere  stipulation  of  a  franchise.  If  it  may,  and  it  is  not 
perceived  why  it  may  not,  then  the  grant  of  a  corporate  capacity 
may  be  stipulated  as  a  consideration  of  the  loan.  There  seems 
to  be  nothing  unfit  or  foreign  from  the  nature  of  the  thing  in 
giving  individuality,  or  a  corporate  capacity  to  a  number  of  per- 
sons, who  are  willing  to  lend  a  sum  of  money  to  the  govern- 
ment, the  better  to  enable  them  to  do  it,  and  make  them  an 
ordinary  instrument  of  loans  in  future  emergencies  of  the  state. 
But  the  more  general  view  of  the  subject  is  still  more  satisfac- 
tory. The  legislative  power  of  borrowing  money,  and  of  making 
all  laws  necessary  and  proper  for  carrying  into  execution  that 
power,  seems  obviously  competent  to  the  appointment  of  the 
organ,  through  which  the  abilities  and  wills  of  individuals  may 
be  most  efficaciously  exerted  for  the  accommodation  of  the 
government  by  loans. 

The  Attorney-General  opposes  to  this  reasoning  the  following 
observation : — "  Borrowing  money  presupposes  the  accumulation 
of  a  fund  to  be  lent,  and  is  secondary  to  the  creation  of  an  ability 
to  lend."  This  is  plausible  in  theory,  but  is  not  true  in  fact.  In 
a  great  number  of  cases,  a  previous  accumulation  of  a  fund  equal 
to  the  whole  sum  required  does  not  exist.  And  nothing  more 
can  be  actually  presupposed,  than  that  there  exists  resources, 
which,  put  into  activity  to  the  greatest  advantage  by  the  nature 
of  the  operation  with  the  government,  will  be  equal  to  the  effect 


jEt.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  129 

desired  to  be  produced.     All  the  provisions  and  operations  of 
government  must  be  presumed  to  contemplate  as  they  really  are. 

The  institution  of  a  bank  has  also  a  natural  relation  to  the 
regulation  of  trade  between  the  States,  in  so  far  as  it  is  conducive 
to  the  creation  of  a  convenient  medium  of  exchange  between  them, 
and  to  the  keeping  up  a  full  circulation,  by  preventing  the 
frequent  displacement  of  the  metals  in  reciprocal  remittances. 
Money  is  the  very  hinge  on  which  commerce  turns.  And  this 
does  not  merely  mean  gold  and  silver ;  many  other  things  have 
served  the  purpose,  with  different  degrees  of  utility.  Paper  has 
been  extensively  employed. 

It  cannot,  therefore,  be  admitted,  with  the  Attorney-General, 
that  the  regulation  of  trade  between  the  States,  as  it  concerns 
the  medium  of  circulation  and  exchange,  ought  to  be  considered 
as  confined  to  coin.  It  is  even  supposable  that  the  whole,  or 
the  greatest  part,  of  the  coin  of  the  country  might  be  carried  out 
of  it. 

The  Secretary  of  State  objects  to  the  relation  here  insisted 
upon,  by  the  following  mode  of  reasoning: — To  erect  a  bank, 
says  he,  and  to  regulate  commerce,  are  very  different  acts.  He 
who  creates  a  bank,  creates  a  subject  of  commerce ;  so  does  he 
who  makes  a  bushel  of  wheat,  or  digs  a  dollar  out  of  the  mines ; 
yet  neither  of  these  persons  regulate  commerce  thereby.  To 
make  a  thing  which  may  be  bought  and  sold,  is  not  to  prescribe 
regulations  for  buying  and  selling. 

This  making  the  regulation  of  commerce  to  consist  in  pre- 
scribing rules  for  buying  and  selling — this,  indeed,  is  a  species  of 
regulation  of  trade,  but  is  one  which  falls  more  aptly  within  the 
province  of  the  local  jurisdictions  than  within  that  of  the  general 
government,  whose  care  they  must  be  presumed  to  have  been 
intended  to  be  directed  to  those  general  political  arrangements 
concerning  trade  on  which  its  aggregate  interests  depend,  rather 
than  to  the  details  of  buying  and  selling.  Accordingly,  such  only 
are  the  regulations  to  be  found  in  the  laws  of  the  United  States, 
whose  objects  are  to  give  encouragement  to  the  enterprise  of 
our  own  merchants,  and  to  advance  our  navigation  and  manu- 
factures. And  it  is  in  reference  to  these  general  relations  of 
d  9 


130  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

commerce,  that  an  establishment  which  furnishes  facilities  to  cir- 
culation, and  a  convenient  medium  of  exchange  and  alienation, 
is  to  be  regarded  as  a  regulation  of  trade. 

The  Secretary  of  State  further  argues,  that  if  this  was  a  regu- 
lation of  commerce,  it  would  be  void,  as  extending  as  much  to  the 
internal  commerce  of  every  State  as  to  its  external.  But  what  regu- 
lation of  commerce  does  not  extend  to  the  internal  commerce  of 
every  State  ?  What  are  all  the  duties  upon  imported  articles, 
amounting  to  prohibitions,  but  so  many  bounties  upon  domestic 
manufactures,  affecting  the  interests  of  different  classes  of  citizens, 
in  different  ways  ?  What  are  all  the  provisions  in  the  Coasting 
Act  which  relate  to  the  trade  between  district  and  district  of  the 
same  State?  In  short,  what  regulation  of  trade  between  the 
States  but  must  affect  the  internal  trade  of  each  State  ?  What 
can  operate  upon  the  whole  but  must  extend  to  every  part  ? 

The  relation  of  a  bank  to  the  execution  of  the  powers  that 
concern  the  common  defence,  has  been  anticipated.  It  has  been 
noted,  that,  at  this  very  moment,  the  aid  of  such  an  institution  is 
essential  to  the  measures  to  be  pursued  for  the  protection  of  our 
frontiers. 

It  now  remains  to  show,  that  the  incorporation  of  a  bank  is 
within  the  operation  of  the  provision  which  authorizes  Congress 
to  make  all  needful  rules  and  regulations  concerning  the  property 
of  the  United  States.  But  it  is  previously  necessary  to  advert  to 
a  distinction  which  has  been  taken  by  the  Attorney-General. 

He  admits  that  the  word  property  may  signify  personal  pro- 
perty, however  acquired,  and  yet  asserts  that  it  cannot  signify 
money  arising  from  the  sources  of  revenue  pointed  out  in  the 
Constitution,  "  because,"  says  he,  "the  disposal  and  regulation  of 
money  is  the  final  cause  for  raising  it  by  taxes." 

But  it  would  be  more  accurate  to  say  that  the  object  to  which 
money  is  intended  to  be  applied  is  the  final  cause  for  raising  it. 
than  that  the  disposal  and  regulation  of  it  is  such. 

The  support  of  government — the  support  of  troops  for  the 
common  defence — the  payment  of  the  public  debt,  are  the  true 
final  causes  for  raising  money.  The  disposition  and  regulation 
of  it,  when  raised,  are  the  steps  by  which  it  is  applied  to  the  ends 


jEt.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  131 

for  which  it  was  raised,  not  the  ends  themselves.  Hence,  there- 
fore, the  money  to  be  raised  by  taxes,  as  well  as  any  other  per- 
sonal property,  must  be  supposed  to  come  within  the  meaning,  as 
they  certainly  do  within  the  letter,  of  authority  to  make  all 
needful  rules  and  regulations  concerning  the  property  of  the 
United  States. 

A  case  will  make  this  plainer.  Suppose  the  public  debt  dis- 
charged, and  the  funds  now  pledged  for  it  liberated.  In  some  in- 
stances it  would  be  found  expedient  to  repeal  the  taxes ;  in  others, 
the  repeal  might  injure  our  own  industry,  our  agriculture  and 
manufactures.  In  these  cases  they  would,  of  course,  be  retained. 
Here,  then,  would  be  moneys  arising  from  the  authorized  sources 
of  revenue,  which  would  not  fall  within  the  rule  by  which  the 
Attorney-General  endeavors  to  except  them  from  other  personal 
property,  and  from  the  operation  of  the  clause  in  question.  The 
moneys  being  in  the  coffers  of  government,  what  is  to  hinder 
such  a  disposition  to  be  made  of  them  as  is  contemplated  in  the 
bill ;  or  what  an  incorporation  of  the  parties  concerned,  under 
the  clause  which  has  been  cited  ? 

It  is  admitted,  that  with  regard  to  the  western  territory  they 
give  a  power  to  erect  a  corporation — that  is,  to  institute  a  gov- 
ernment ;  and  by  what  rule  of  construction  can  it  be  maintained, 
that  the  same  words  in  a  constitution  of  government  will  not 
have  the  same  effect  when  applied  to  one  species  of  property  as 
to  another,  as  far  as  the  subject  is  capable  of  it? — Or  that  a  legis- 
lative power  to  make  all  needful  rules  and  regulations,  or  to  pass 
all  laws  necessary  and  proper,  concerning  the  public  property, 
which  is  admitted  to  authorize  an  incorporation  in  one  case,  will 
not  authorize  it  in  another? — will  justify  the  institution  of  a 
government  over  the  western  territory,  and  will  not  justify  the 
incorporation  of  a  bank  for  the  more  useful  management  of  the 
moneys  of  the  United  States  ?  If  it  will  do  the  last,  as  well  as 
the  first,  then,  under  this  provision  alone,  the  bill  is  constitu- 
tional, because  it  contemplates  that  the  United  States  shall  be 
joint  proprietors  of  the  stock  of  the  bank. 

There  is  an  observation  of  the  Secretary  of  State  to  this  effect, 
which  may  require  notice  in  this  place : — Congress,  says  he,  are 


132  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

not  to  lay  taxes  ad  libitum,  for  any  purpose  they  phase,  but  only  to 
pay  the  debts  or  provide  for  the  welfare  of  the  Union.  Certainly 
no  inference  can  be  drawn  from  this  against  the  power  of  apply- 
ing their  money  for  the  institution  of  a  bank.  It  is  true  that 
they  cannot  without  breach  of  trust  lay  taxes  for  any  other 
purpose  than  the  general  welfare ;  but  so  neither  can  any  other 
government.  The  welfare  of  the  community  is  the  only  legiti- 
mate end  for  which  money  can  be  raised  on  the  community. 
Congress  can  be  considered  as  under  only  one  restriction  which 
does  not  apply  to  other  governments, — they  cannot  rightfully 
apply  the  money  they  raise  to  any  purpose  merely  or  purely 
local.  But,  with  this  exception,  they  have  as  large  a  discretion 
in  relation  to  the  application  of  money  as  any  legislature  what- 
ever. The  constitutional  test  of  a  right  application  must  always 
be,  whether  it  be  for  a  purpose  of  general  or  local  nature.  If  the 
former,  there  can  be  no  want  of  constitutional  power.  The  qual- 
ity of  the  object,  as  how  far  it  will  really  promote  or  not  the 
welfare  of  the  Union,  must  be  matter  of  conscientious  discretion, 
and  the  arguments  for  or  against  a  measure  in  this  light  must  be 
arguments  concerning  expediency  or  inexpediency,  not  consti- 
tutional right.  Whatever  relates  to  the  general  order  of  the 
finances,  to  the  general  interests  of  trade,  &c,  being  general  ob- 
jects, are  constitutional  ones  for  the  application  of  money. 

A  bank,  then,  wTaose  bills  are  to  circulate  in  all  the  revenues 
of  the  country,  is  evidently  a  general  object,  and,  for  that  very 
reason,  a  constitutional  one,  as  far  as  regards  the  appropriation 
of  money  to  it.  Whether  it  will  really  be  a  beneficial  one  or 
not,  is  worthy  of  careful  examination,  but  is  no  more  a  con- 
stitutional point,  in  the  particular  referred  to,  than  the  question, 
whether  the  western  lands  snail  be  sold  for  twenty  or  thirty 
cents  per  acre. 

A  hope  is  entertained  that  it  has,  by  this  time,  been  made  to 
appear,  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  President,  that  a  bank  has  a 
natural  relation  to  the  power  of  collecting  taxes — to  that  of  regu- 
lating trade — to  that  of  providing  for  the  common  defence — and 
that,  as  the  bill  under  consideration  contemplates  the  govern- 
ment in  the  light  of  a  joint  proprietor  of  the  stock  of  the  bank, 


Mt.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  133 

it  brings  the  case  within  the  provision  of  the  clause  of  the  Con- 
stitution which  immediately  respects  the  property  of  the  United 
States. 

Under  a  conviction  that  such  a  relation  subsists,  the  Secre- 
tary of  the  Treasury,  with  all  deference,  conceives,  that  it  will 
result  as  a  necessary  consequence  from  the  position,  that  all  the 
specified  powers  of  government  are  sovereign,  as  to  the  proper 
objects ;  that  the  incorporation  of  a  bank  is  a  constitutional, 
measure ;  and  that  the  objections  taken  to  the  bill,  in  this  re- 
spect, are  ill-founded. 

But,  from  an  earnest  desire  to  give  the  utmost  possible  satis- 
faction to  the  mind  of  the  President,  on  so  delicate  and  important 
a  subject,  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  will  ask  his  indulgence, 
while  he  gives  some  additional  illustrations  of  cases  in  which  a 
power  of  erecting  corporations  may  be  exercised,  under  some  of 
those  heads  of  the  specified  powers  of  the  government,  which  are 
alleged  to  include  the  right  of  incorporating  a  bank. 

1.  It  does  not  appear  susceptible  of  a  doubt,  that  if  Congress 
had  thought  proper  to  provide,  in  the  collection  laws,  that  the 
bonds  to  be  given  for  the  duties  should  be  given  to  the  collector 
of  the  district,  A  or  B,  as  the  case  might  require,  to  enure  to 
him  and  his  successors  in  office,  in  trust  for  the  United  States, 
that  it  would  have  been  consistent  with  the  Constitution  to  make 
such  an  arrangement ;  and  yet  this,  it  is  conceived,  would  amount 
to  an  incorporation. 

2.  It  is  not  an  unusual  expedient  of  taxation  to  form  particu- 
lar branches  of  revenue — that  is,  to  mortgage  or  sell  the  product 
of  them  for  certain  definite  sums,  leaving  the  collection  to  the 
parties  to  whom  they  are  mortgaged  or  sold.  There  are  even 
examples  of  this  in  the  United  States.  Suppose  that  there  was 
any  particular  branch  of  revenue  which  it  was  manifestly  ex- 
pedient to  place  on  this  footing,  and  there  were  a  number  of 
persons  willing  to  engage  with  the  government,  upon  con- 
dition that  they  should  be  incorporated,  and  the  sums  vested  in 
them,  as  well  for  their  greater  safety,  as  for  the  more  convenient 
recovery  and  management  of  the  taxes.  Is  it  supposable  that 
there  could  be  any  constitutional  obstacle  to  the  measure  ?     It  is 


134  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

presumed  that  there  could  be  none.  It  is  certainly  a  mode  of 
collection  which  it  would  be  in  the  discretion  of  the  government 
to  adopt,  though  the  circumstances  must  be  very  extraordinary 
that  would  induce  the  Secretary  to  think  it  expedient. 

3.  Suppose  a  new  and  unexplored  branch  of  trade  should 
present  itself,  with  some  foreign  country.  Suppose  it  was  mani- 
fest, that  to  undertake  it  with  advantage  required  an  union  of 
•the  capitals  of  a  number  of  individuals,  and  that  those  individu- 
als would  not  be  disposed  to  embark  without  an  incorporation, 
as  well  to  qbviate  that  consequence  of  a  private  partnership 
which  makes  every  individual  liable  in  his  whole  estate  for  the 
debts  of  the  company,  to  their  utmost  extent,  as  for  the  more 
convenient  management  of  the  business — what  reason  can  there 
be  to  doubt  that  the  national  government  would  have  a  constitu- 
tional right  to  institute  and  incorporate  such  a  company? 
None.  They  possess  a  general  authority  to  regulate  trade  with 
foreign  countries.  This  is  a  mean,  which  has  been  practised  to 
that  end,  by  all  the  principal  commercial  nations,  who  have 
trading  companies  to  this  day,  which  have  subsisted  for  centu- 
ries.  Why  may  not  the  United  States,  constitutionally,  employ 
the  means  usual  in  other  countries,  for  attaining  the  ends  in- 
trusted to  them  ? 

A  power  to  make  all  needful  rules  and  regulations  con- 
cerning territory,  has  been  construed  to  mean  a  power  to  erect  a 
government.  A  power  to  regulate  trade,  is  a  power  to  make  all 
needful  rules  and  regulations  concerning  trade.  Why  may  it 
not,  then,  include  that  of  erecting  a  trading  company,  as  well  as, 
in  other  cases,  to  erect  a  government  ? 

It  is  remarkable  that  the  State  conventions,  who  had  proposed 
amendments  in  relation  to  this  point,  have  most,  if  not  all  of 
them,  expressed  themselves  nearly  thus:  Congress  shall  not 
grant  monopolies,  nor  erect  any  company  with  exclusive  advan- 
tages of  commerce !  Thus,  at  the  same  time,  expressing  their 
sense,  that  the  power  to  erect  trading  companies  or  corporations 
was  inherent  in  Congress,  and  objecting  to  it  no  further  than  as 
to  the  grant  of  exclusive  privileges. 

The  Secretary  entertains  all  the  doubts  which  prevail  con- 


jEt.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  135 

cerning  the  utility  of  such  companies,  but  he  cannot  fashion  to 
his  own  mind  a  reason,  to  induce  a  doubt,  that  there  is  a  con- 
stitutional authority  in  the  United  States  to  establish  them.  If 
such  a  reason  were  demanded,  none  could  be  given,  unless  it 
were  this :  That  Congress  cannot  erect  a  corporation.  Which 
would  be  no  better  than  to  say,  they  cannot  do  it,  because  they 
cannot  do  it — first  presuming  an  inability,  without  reason,  and 
then  assigning  that  inability  as  the  cause  of  itself.  Illustrations 
of  this  kind  might  be  multiplied  without  end.  They  shall,  how- 
ever, be  pursued  no  further. 

There  is  a  sort  of  evidence  on  this  point,  arising  from  an 
aggregate  view  of  the  Constitution,  which  is  of  no  inconsiderable 
weight :  the  very  general  power  of  laying  and  collecting  taxes, 
and  appropriating  their  proceeds — that  of  borrowing  money  in- 
definitely— that  of  coining  money,  and  regulating  foreign  coins 
— that  of  making  all  needful  rules  and  regulations  respecting  the 
property  of  the  United  States.  These  powers  combined,  as  well 
as  the  reason  and  nature  of  the  thing,  speak  strongly  this  lan- 
guage :  that  it  is  the  manifest  design  and  scope  of  the  Consti- 
tution to  vest  in  Congress  all  the  powers  requisite  to  the  effectual 
administration  of  the  finances  of  the  United  States.  As  far 
as  concerns  this  object,  there  appears  to  be  no  parsimony  of 
power. 

To  suppose,  then,  that  the  government  is  precluded  from  the 
employment  of  so  usual  and  so  important  an  instrument  for  the 
administration  of  its  finances  as  that  of  a  bank,  is  to  suppose 
what  does  not  coincide  with  the  general  tenor  and  complexion 
of  the  Constitution,  and  what  is  not  agreeable  to  impressions 
that  any  new  spectator  would  entertain  concerning  it. 

Little  less  than  a  prohibitory  clause  can  destroy  the  strong 
presumptions  which  result  from  the  general  aspect  of  the  govern- 
ment. Nothing  but  demonstration  should  exclude  the  idea  that 
the  power  exists. 

In  all  questions  of  this  nature,  the  practice  of  mankind  ought 
to  have  great  weight  against  the  theories  of  individuals. 

The  fact,  for  instance,  that  all  the  principal  commercial 
nations  have  made  use  of  trading  corporations  or  companies,  for 


136  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [.Ex.  34 

the  purpose  of  external  commerce,  is  a  satisfactory  proof  that  the 
establishment  of  them  is  an  incident  to  the  regulation  of  the 
commerce. 

This  other  fact,  that  banks  are  an  usual  engine  in  the  adminis- 
tration of  national  finances,  and  an  ordinary  and  the  most  effec- 
tual instrument  of  loan,  and  one  which,  in  this  country,  has  been 
found  essential,  pleads  strongly  against  the  supposition  that  a 
government,  clothed  with  most  of  the  most  important  preroga- 
tives of  sovereignty  in  relation  to  its  revenues,  its  debts,  its 
credits,  its  defence,  its  trade,  its  intercourse  with  foreign  nations, 
is  forbidden  to  make  use  of  that  instrument  as  an  appendage  to 
its  own  authority. 

It  has  been  stated  as  an  auxiliary  test  of  constitutional  autho- 
rity to  try  whether  it  abridges  any  pre-existing  right  of  any 
State,  or  any  individual.  The  proposed  investigation  will  stand 
the  most  severe  examination  on  this  point.  Each  State  may  still 
erect  as  many  banks  as  it  pleases.  Every  individual  may  still 
carry  on  the  banking  business  to  any  extent  he  pleases. 

Another  criterion  may  be  this :  whether  the  institution  or 
thing  has  a  more  direct  relation,  as  to  its  uses,  to  the  objects  of 
the  reserved  powers  of  the  State  governments  than  to  those  of 
the  powers  delegated  by  the  United  States.  This  rule,  indeed,  is 
less  precise  than  the  former ;  but  it  may  still  serve  as  some  guide. 
Surely  a  bank  has  more  reference  to  the  objects  intrusted  to  the 
national  government  than  to  those  left  to  the  care  of  the  State 
governments.  The  common  defence  is  decisive  in  this  compa- 
rison. 

It  is  presumed  that  nothing  of  consequence  in  the  observa- 
tions of  the  Secretary  of  State,  and  Attorney-General,  has  been 
left  unnoticed. 

There  are,  indeed,  a  variety  of  observations  of  the  Secretary 
of  State  designed  to  show  that  the  utilities  ascribed  to  a  bank, 
in  relation  to  the  collection  of  taxes,  and  to  trade,  could  be  ob- 
tained without  it ;  to  analyze  which,  would  prolong  the  discus- 
sion beyond  all  bounds.  It  shall  be  forborne  for  two  reasons. 
First,  because  the  report  concerning  the  bank,  may  speak  for 
itself  in  this  respect ;  and  secondly,  because  all  those  observa- 


vEt.34.]  cabinet    papers.  137 

tions  are  grounded  on  the  erroneous  idea  that  the  quantum  of 
necessity  or  utility  is  the  test  of  a  constitutional  exercise  of  power. 

One  or  two  remarks  only  shall  be  made.  One  is,  that  he  has 
taken  no  notice  of  a  very  essential  advantage  to  trade  in  general, 
which  is  mentioned  in  the  report,  as  peculiar  to  the  existence  of 
a  bank  circulation,  equal  in  the  public  estimation  to  gold  and 
silver.  It  is  this  that  renders  it  unnecessary  to  lock  up  the  money 
of  the  country,  to  accumulate  for  months  sucessively,  in  order  to 
the  periodical  payment  of  interest.  The  other  is  this :  that  his 
arguments  to  show  that  treasury  orders  and  bills  of  exchange, 
from  the  course  of  trade,  will  prevent  any  considerable  displace- 
ment of  the  metals,  are  founded  on  a  particular  view  of  the 
subject.  A  case  will  prove  this.  The  sums  collected  in  a  State 
may  be  small  in  comparison  with  the  debt  due  to  it ;  the  balance 
of  its  trade,  direct  and  circuitous  with  the  seat  of  government, 
may  be  even,  or  nearly  so;  here,  then,  without  bank  bills,  which 
in  that  State  answer  the  purpose  of  coin,  there  must  be  a  dis- 
placement of  the  coin,  in  proportion  to  the  difference  between 
the  sum  collected  in  the  State,  and  that  to  be  paid  in  it.  With 
bank  bills,  no  such  displacement  would  take  place,  or  as  far  as  it 
did,  it  would  be  gradual  and  insensible.  In  many  other  ways, 
also,  would  there  be  at  least  a  temporary  and  inconvenient  dis- 
placement of  the  coin,  even  where  the  course  of  trade  would 
eventually  return  it  to  its  proper  channels. 

The  difference  of  the  two  situations  in  point  of  convenience 
to  the  treasury,  can  only  be  appreciated  by  one,  who  expe- 
riences the  embarrassments  of  making  provision  for  the  payment 
of  the  interest  on  a  stock,  continually  changing  place  in  thirteen 
different  places. 

One  thing  which  has  been  omitted,  just  occurs,  although  it  is 
not  very  material  to  the  main  argument.  The  Secretary  of  State 
affirms  that  the  bill  only  contemplates  a  repayment,  not  a  loan, 
to  the  government.  But  here  he  is  certainly  mistaken.  It  is 
true  the  government  invests  in  the  stock  of  the  bank  a  sum 
equal  to  that  which  it  receives  on  loan.  But  let  it  be  remem- 
bered, that  it  does  not,  therefore,  cease  to  be  a  proprietor  of  the 
stock,  which  would  be  the  case,  if  the  money  received  back  were 


138  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  34. 

in  the  nature  of  a  payment.  It  remains  a  proprietor  still,  and 
will  share  in  the  profit  or  loss  of  the  institution,  according  as 
the  dividend  is  more  or  less  than  the  interest  it  is  to  pay  on  the 
sum  borrowed.  Hence  that  sum  is  manifestly,  and  in  the  strict- 
est sense,  a  loan. 


SHORT  TO  HAMILTON. 

Amsterdam,  Feb.  17,  1791. 

Sir: 

I  have  the  honor  to  inform  you  at  present  that  a  loan  for  the 
United  States  for  two  millions  and  an  half  of  guilders  was  brought 
on  the  market  the  day  before  yesterday  morning ;  the  terms  are 
the  same  with  the  last,  except  that  the  commission  is  reduced 
one  half  per  cent. ;  the  form  of  the  bond  is  now  making  out,  and 
as  soon  as  completed  I  will  send  you  a  copy  of  it.  I  think  you 
will  learn  with  pleasure,  sir,  that  this  loan  (of  which  the  rate  of 
interest  is  the  same  with  that  paid  by  the  most  accredited  powers 
here,  and  of  which  the  commission  is  one-half  of  that  paid  by 
some  and  lower  than  that  paid  by  any  except  the  Emperor,  who 
has  no  further  occasion  for  money,  and  who  paid  the  same),  was 
all  taken  up  and  contracted  for  in  less  than  two  hours  after  being 
published  on  the  exchange ;  a  celerity  of  which  I  am  told  there 
has  been  no  instance  here  before  in  loans  for  any  country.  This 
circumstance  cannot  fail  to  give  a  very  favorable  impulsion  to 
the  credit  to  which  the  United  States  are  so  justly  entitled,  and 
facilitate  the  views  they  may  have  here  in  future.  I  must  add,  also, 
that  the  accounts  which  are  received  here  of  the  happy  effects  of 
our  new  constitution  and  the  confidence  which  its  present  admin- 
istration has  inspired  at  this  place,  are  the  real  and  efficient 
causes  of  the  prosperous  situation  of  the  credit  of  the  United 
States.  This  consideration  is  the  more  agreeable  as  it  shows  that 
it  is  dependent  on  themselves,  and  not  merely  on  the  manage- 
ment or  credit  of  agents  or  other  temporary  and  uncertain  means 
which  other  powers  are  sometimes  obliged  to  employ.     It  cannot 


iET.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  139 

be  denied,  however,  that  the  time  and  manner  of  bringing  a  loan 
on  the  market  has  much  influence  on  the  facility  with  which  it  is 
carried  through,  and  that  the  present  is  a  favorable  moment  for 
loans  in  general,  and  for  those  of  the  United  States  in  particular. 
I  mentioned  to  you  in  my  letter  of  Dec.  2,  that  the  commis- 
sioners of  the  United  States  wished  much  to  fix  the  loans  at 
three,  instead  of  two  and  a  half  millions  of  guilders.  I  was  sen- 
sible of  the  propriety  of  their  observations,  which  I  have  already 
communicated  to  you ;  but  I  declined  acceding,  without  mention- 
ing to  them  the  only  true  reason,  which  was  your  instruction  on 
that  head.  On  the  loan  being  carried  off  with  so  much  rapidity, 
they  have  renewed  their  observations,  and  joined  to  them  other 
reasons  for  extending  it  to  three  millions,  which  they  have  press- 
ed on  me  repeatedly  since,  with  a  warmth  which  I  did  not  ex- 
pect. The  principal  reason,  and  that  on  which  they  seemed  to 
dwell  with  most  earnestness,  is  the  necessity  of  keeping  the  under- 
takers well  disposed ;  that  in  order  to  do  this,  it  is  found  necessary 
to  give  them  all  a  part  in  loans  which  are  received  favorably, 
that  they  may  be  disposed  to  take  a  part  also,  if  at  any  time  the 
moment  should  be  less  favorable ;  that  not  foreseeing  the  very 
great  demand  there  could  be  for  this  loan,  they  had  allowed  the 
undertakers,  as  they  presented  themselves,  to  subscribe  for  as 
much  as  they  chose,  by  which  means  there  was  no  part  left  for 
those  who  came  last.  They  add,  that  by  extending  it  to  three  mil- 
lions they  could  satisfy  them,  and  that  otherwise  these  people,  at 
a  future  time,  should  the  United  States  wish  to  make  a  loan, 
might,  from  ill  humor  or  resentment,  decline  their  aid.  Whether 
this  be  the  true  cause  or  not  of  the  tenacity  with  which  the  com- 
missioners adhere  to  this  desire,  I  cannot  say.  I  am  sensible, 
however,  of  the  weight  of  the  undertakers  in  loans,  and  of  the 
propriety  of  not  disobliging  them ;  still  I  cannot  apprehend 
much  from  their  resentment  in  a  case  like  this.  It  seems  to  me, 
on  the  contrary,  that  the  loan  being  not  pushed  now  as  far  as  it 
might  be,  would  rather  render  them  more  forward  in  the  case  of 
another  being  brought  on  the  market.  The  commissioners  how- 
ever seem  to  be  fully  of  a  different  opinion,  and  as  it  is  an  affair 
of  mere  locality,  they  must  necessarily  be  better  acquainted  with 


140  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  34. 

it  than  I  am.  They  seem  somewhat  mortified  that  I  should  not 
therefore  follow  their  advice  respecting  it.  They  gave  me  to 
understand  that  I  might  extend  the  loan,  if  I  judged  proper  to 
make  use  of  this  favorable  moment,  to  four  millions,  which  is 
beyond  the  ordinary  size  of  loans,  and  are  much  astonished  at 
my  not  doing  it.  I  have  not  informed  them  of  the  true  cause  of 
it,  for  a  reason  which  seems  to  me  sufficient — that  it  is  not  ne- 
cessary. 

I  have  lately  received  a  letter  from  Mr.  Gouv'r  Morris,  at 
Paris,  in  which  he  informs  me  that  he  is  well  persuaded  a  loan  for 
about  a  million  of  dollars  could  have  been  made  for  the  United 
States  some  months  ago  in  a  place  not  in  Holland  (he  does  not 
say  what  place),  on  the  following  terms  :  "  The  sum  to  have  been 
at  the  order  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  at  .fixed  terms, 
and  the  interest  to  commence  from  those  terms  at  five  per  cent. 
For  commissions,  charges,  and  bonus,  with  the  express  undertak- 
ing for  the  money,  about  four  per  cent."  He  adds,  that  having 
understood  from  me  that  my  powers  were  confined  to  Holland, 
he  gave  those  who  had  applied  to  him  information  that  nothing 
could  be  done  for  the  present,  viz.  at  the  time  of  his  speaking  to 
me,  which  was  a  day  or  two  before  I  left  Paris.  I  did  not  sup- 
pose, from  what  he  then  said,  that  any  proposals  had  been  made 
to  him,  and  I  should  not  have  thought  it  prudent  to  have  risked 
an  experiment  any  where  without  an  absolute  certainty  of  suc- 
cess, for  a  variety  of  reasons  which  will  naturally  present  them- 
selves to  you.  Under  those  circumstances  I  did  not  perhaps  go 
into  any  explanations  which  could  give  Mr.  Morris  a  true  idea  of 
the  nature  of  my  powers.  This  appeared  to  me  the  less  necessary 
also,  because  having  no  intention  of  making  more  than  one  loan 
before  I  again  heard  from  }^ou,  and  not  being  able  to  entertain  a 
doubt  that  that  could  be  done  more  advantageously  here  than 
elsewhere,  I  did  not  see  any  means  at  that  time  of  making  an 
experiment  elsewhere.  Mr.  Morris  adds  also  in  his  letter,  that 
he  "will  not  pretend  to  say  whether  such  a  loan  could  be  made 
at  present,  because  a  great  part  of  the  disposable  cash  is  proba- 
bly applied ;  but  that  if  I  wish  to  know,  he  will  make  inquiry ; 
but  would  not  wish  to  meddle  in  it,  unless  I  think  it  could  be 


.Et.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  141 

brought  to  something."  I  am  so  fully  sensible  of  the  advantages 
which  would  result  from  the  United  States  being  able  to  make 
loans,  if  they  should  choose  it,  in  more  than  one  place,  that  I 
have  thought  Mr.  Morris's  idea  not  to  be  neglected,  and  yet  I 
see  no  means  of  making  use  of  it  at  present.  I  have  therefore 
answered  him,  that  my  wishes  were  that  he  would  make  such 
inquiries  as  would  reduce  that  matter  to  as  much  certainty  as 
possible,  as  nothing  could  justify  an  experiment,  without  the  suc- 
cess being  previously  ascertained ;  that  I  had  no  reason  to  be- 
lieve, at  present,  that  I  should  wish  to  undertake  such  a  loan 
before  April  or  May ;  but  that  there  was  so  great  a  presumption 
that  a  loan  out  of  Holland  would  then  or  sooner  be  agreeable, 
that  I  thought  nryself  authorized  in  asking  him  to  make  the  in- 
quiry ;  that  as  to  the  terms,  I  would  say  nothing  at  present,  as 
they  would  of  course  be  to  be  settled  at  the  time  of  making  the 
loan. 


HAMILTON  TO  JEFFERSON. 

March,  1791. 

Mr.  Hamilton  presents  his  respectful  compliments  to  the 
Secretary  of  State.  He  has  perused,  with  as  much  care  and 
attention  as  time  has  permitted,  the  draft  of  a  letter  in  answer  to 
that  of  Mr.  Hammond,  of  March  5th. 

Much  strong  ground  has  been  taken,  and  strongly  maintained, 
particularly  in  relation  to 

The  recommendatory  clauses  of  the  treaty, 

The  previous  infractions  by  Great  Britain,  as  to  negroes  and 
posts, 

The  question  of  interest. 

And  many  of  the  suggestions  of  the  British  minister,  concern- 
ing particular  acts  and  adjudications,  as  far  as  can  be  judged 
without  consulting  the  documents,  appear  to  be  satisfactorily 
obviated. 

But  doubts  arise  in  the  following  particulars : 


142  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

1st.  The  expediency  of  the  retaliation  on  the  1st,  2d,  and  3d 
pages.  Much  of  the  propriety  of  what  is  said  depends  on  the 
question  of  the  original  right  or  ivrong  of  the  war.  Should  it 
lead  to  observations  on  that  point,  it  may  involve  an  awkward 
and  irritating  discussion.  Will  it  not  be  more  dignified,  as  well 
as  more  discreet,  to  observe,  concisely  and  generally,  on  the  im- 
propriety of  having  deduced  imputations  from  transactions 
during  the  war,  and  (alluding  in  the  aggregate,  and  without  spe- 
cification, to  the  instances  of  legislative  warfare  on  the  part  of 
the  British  parliament,  which  might  be  recriminated)  to  say  that 
this  is  forborne,  as  leading  to  an  unprofitable  and  unconciliating 
discussion  ? 

2d.  The  soundness  of  the  doctrine  (page  4),  that  all  govern- 
mental acts  of  the  States  prior  to  the  11th  of  April  are  out  of  the 
discussion.  Does  not  the  term  " subjects"  to  whom,  according  to 
Yatel,  notice  is  necessary,  apply  merely  to  individuals?  Are 
not  States  members  of  the  federal  league,  tho  parties  contractantes, 
"  who  are  bound  by  the  treaty  itself,  from  the  time  of  its  con- 
clusion ;  that  is,  in  the  present  case,  from  the  time  the  provisional 
treaty  took  effect,  by  the  ratification  of  the  preliminary  articles 
between  France  and  Britain?" 

3d.  The  expediency  of  so  full  a  justification  of  the  proceed- 
ings of  certain  States  with  regard  to  debts.  In  this  respect, 
extenuation  rather  than  vindication  would  seem  to  be  the  desira- 
ble course.  It  is  an  obvious  truth,  and  is  so  stated,  that  Con- 
gress alone  has  the  right  to  pronounce  a  breach  of  the  treaty,  and 
to  fix  the  measure  of  retaliation.  Not  having  done  it,  the  States 
which  undertook  the  task  for  them,  contravened  both  their  fede- 
ral duty  and  the  treaty.  Do  not  some  of  the  acts  of  Congress 
import  that  the  thing  was  viewed  by  that  body  in  this  light  ? 
Will  it  be  well  for  the  Executive  now  to  implicate  itself  in  too 
strong  a  defence  of  measures  which  have  been  regarded  by  a 
great  proportion  of  the  Union,  and  by  a  respectable  part  of  the 
citizens  of  almost  every  State,  as  exceptionable  in  various  lights  ? 
May  not  too  earnest  an  apology  for  instalment  and  paper  money 
laws,  if  made  public  hereafter,  tend  to  prejudice,  somewhat,  the 
cause  of  good  government,  and  perhaps  to  affect  disadvantage- 
ously  the  character  of  the  general  government  ? 


jEt.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  143 

To  steer  between  too  much  concession  and  too  much  justifica- 
tion in  this  particular,  is  a  task  both  difficult  and  delicate  ;  but  it 
is  worthy  of  the  greatest  circumspection  to  accomplish  it. 

4.  The  expediency  of  risking  the  implication  of  the  tacit  ap- 
probation of  Congress  of  the  "  retaliations  of  four  States "  by 
saying  that  they  neither  gave  nor  refused  their  sanction  to  those 
retaliations.  Will  not  the  national  character  stand  better  if  no 
ground  to  suspect  the  connivance  of  the  national  government  is 
afforded  ?  Is  it  not  the  fact  that  Congress  were  inactive  specta- 
tors of  the  infractions  which  took  place,  because  they  had  no 
effectual  power  to  control  them  ? 

5.  The  truth  of  the  position,  which  seems  to  be  admitted 
(page  57),  that  the  quality  of  alien  enemy  subsisted  till  the  defini- 
tive treaty.  Does  not  an  indefinite  cessation  of  hostilities,  founded 
too  on  a  preliminary  treaty,  put  an  end  to  the  state  of  war,  and 
consequently  destroy  the  relation  of  alien  enemy  ? 

The  state  of  war  may  or  may  not  revive  if  points  which 
remain  to  be  adjusted  by  a  definitive  treaty  are  never  adjusted  by 
such  a  treaty ;  but  it  is  conceived  that  a  definitive  treaty  may  never 
take  place,  and  yet  the  state  of  war  and  all  its  consequences  be 
completely  terminated. 

6.  The  expediency  of  grounding  any  argument  on  the  suppo- 
sition of  either  parties  being  in  the  wrong  (as  in  page  65).  The 
rule  in  construing  treaties  is  to  suppose  both  parties  in  the  right, 
for  want  of  a  common  judge,  &c.  And  a  departure  from  this  rule 
in  argument  might  possibly  lead  to  unpleasant  recrimination. 

The  foregoing  are  the  principal  points  that  have  occurred  on 
one  perusal.  They  are  submitted  without  reserve.  Some  lesser 
matters  struck,  which  would  involve  too  lengthy  a  commentary. 
Many  of  them  merely  respecting  particular  expressions.  A 
mark  +  is  in  the  margin  of  the  places,  which  will  probably  suggest 
to  the  Secretary  of  State,  on  revision,  the  nature  of  the  reflections 
which  may  have  arisen.  It  is  imagined  that  there  is  a  small  mis- 
take in  stating  that  Waddington  paid  no  rent. 


144  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 


JEFFERSON  TO   HAMILTON. 

March,  1791. 

First  Objection. — "  The  retaliatory  clause  is  struck  out,  and  only 
a  general  allusion  to  the  instances  of  legislative  warfare  by  the 
British  Parliament  is  proposed." 

Second  Objection. — "As  to  matters  of  treaty,  the  State  gov- 
ernments were  mere  subjects.  Their  action,  like  those  of  corpora- 
tions in  England,  or  like  any  other  individuals,  can  only  be 
governed  by  the  promulgation ;  which,  therefore,  is  the  term  for 
their  conformity.  They  are  the  l  sujets'  of  Vatel,  and  '  subditi ' 
of  Wolf  in  the  passages  before  referred  to." 

Third  Objection. — "It  cannot  be  disputed  that  Great  Britain 
has  been  guilty  of  the  first  infractions — that  these  infractions 
have  been  highly  injurious  to  us.  I  am  therefore  of  opinion 
that  Great  Britain  cannot  say  we  have  done  wrong  in  retarding, 
in  the  moderate  degree  we  have  done,  execution  of  some  parts  of 
the  treaty,  as  an  equivalent  to  what  she  had  previously  refused 
to  fulfil  on  her  part ;  that  she  cannot  found  on  that  any  claim  of 
indemnification  for  debts  lost  by  lapse  of  time ;  and  that  the  jus- 
tifiable rights  of  our  country  ought  not  to  be  given  up  by  those 
whom  they  have  appointed  and  trusted  to  defend  them  where 
they  may  be  justly  defended." 

Fourth  Objection. — "  The  passage  here  alluded  to  is  in  the 
recapitulation,  §  8.  It  is  struck  out,  and  stands  now — see 
letter." 

Fifth  Objection. — "I  rather  consider  a  preliminary  treaty  as 
establishing  certain  heads  of  agreement,  and  a  truce  till  these  and 
others  can  be  definitively  arranged ;  as  suspending  acts  of  hos- 
tility, and  as  not  changing  the  legal  character  of  enemy  into  that 
of  friend.  However,  as  this  might  be  susceptible  of  a  contradic- 
tion not  worth  our  while  to  excite  in  this  instance,  I  have  struck 
out  all  affirmation  of  the  position." 

Sixth  Objection. — "The  word  wrong  in  the  passage  here  al- 
luded to  is  struck  out,  and  the  word  act  substituted.  "We  may 
sa}r  with  truth  that  it  was  by  their  act  we  were  hindered  from 


Mt.U.]  cabinet    papers.  145 

paying  interest.  While  not  qualifying  it  with  the  epithet  of 
either  right  or  wrong  they  are  free  to  consider  it  as  the  former, 
while  we  do  tacitly  as  the  latter." 

"  Wherever  the  mark  X  has  been  found,  and  its  object  under- 
stood, the  passage  has  been  corrected.  They  seem  principally 
to  have  been  affixed  to  those  passages  susceptible  of  being  soft- 
ened in  the  manner  of  expression  ;  in  some  instances  they  were 
not  understood.  The  mistake  in  the  case  of  Waddington  and 
Eutgers  is  corrected." 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Mount  Vernon.  April  4,  1791. 

Dear  Sir: 

Your  letter  of  the  27th  ultimo  came  duly  to  hand.  For  the 
information  given  in  it,  and  for  the  notes  which  accompanied  the 
same,  I  thank  you. 

Every  expedient,  as  I  believe  you  know,  is  tried  to  avert  a 
war  with  the  hostile  tribes  of  Indians,  and  to  keep  those  who  are 
in  treaty  with  us  in  good  humor ;  but  I  am  almost  thoroughly 
convinced  that  neither  will  be  effected,  or,  if  effected,  will  be  of 
short  duration,  whilst  land-jobbing,  and  the  disorderly  conduct 
of  our  borderers,  are  suffered  with  impunity,  and  while  the 
States  individually  are  omitting  no  occasion  to  intermeddle  in 
matters  which  belong  to  the  general  government. 

It  is  not  more  than  four  or  five  months  since  the  Six  Nations, 
or  part  of  them,  through  the  medium  of  Colonel  Pickering,  were 
assured,  that  henceforward  they  would  be  spoken  to  by  the  gov- 
ernment of  the  United  States  only ;  and  the  same  thing  was  re- 
peated in  strong  terms  to  Cornplanter,  at  Philadelphia,  afterwards. 
Now,  as  appears  by  the  extract  from  Mr.  King,  the  legislature  of 
New-York  are  going  into  some  negotiations  with  these  very  peo- 
ple. What  must  this  evince  to  them  ?  Why,  that  we  pursue  no 
system,  and  that  there  is  no  reliance  on  any  of  our  declarations. 

D  10 


146  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

To  sum  the  whole  up  into  a  few  words,  the  interference  of  States, 
and  the  speculations  of  individuals,  will  be  the  bane  of  all  our 
public  measures. 


WASHINGTON  TO  SECRETARIES  OF  STATE,  TREASURY,  AND  WAR. 

Mount  Vernon,  April  4,  1791. 

Gentlemen  : 

As  the  public  service  may  require  that  communications 
should  be  made  to  me  during  my  absence  from  the  seat  of  gov- 
ernment, by  the  most  direct  conveyances ;  and  as,  in  the  event  of 
any  extraordinary  occurrence,  it  will  be  necessary  to  know  at 
what  time  I  may  be  found  at  any  particular  place ;  I  have  to 
inform  you,  that,  unless  the  progress  of  my  journey  to  Savannah 
is  retarded  by  unforeseen  interruptions,  it  will  be  regulated, 
including  days  of  halt,  in  the  following  manner : — I  shall  be  on 
the  8th  of  April  at  Fredericksburg,  the  16  th  at  Halifax,  the  18th 
at  Tarborough,  the  20th  at  Newbern,  on  the  24th  at  Wilming- 
ton, 29th  at  Georgetown,  South  Carolina ;  on  the  2d  of  May  at 
Charleston,  halting  there  five  days ;  on  the  11th  at  Savannah, 
halting  there  two  days.  Thence,  leaving  the  line  of  the  mail,  I 
shall  proceed  to  Augusta ;  and  according  to  the  information 
which  I  may  receive  there  my  return  by  an  upper  road  will  be 
regulated. 

The  route  of  my  return  is  at  present  uncertain,  but,  in  all 
probability,  it  will  be  through  Columbia,  Camden,  Charlotte, 
Salisbury,  Salem,  Guilford,  Hillsborough,  Harrisburg,  Williams- 
burg, to  Taylor's  Ferry  on  the  Roanoke,  and  thence  to  Frede- 
ricksburg by  the  nearest  and  best  road. 

After  thus  explaining  to  you,  as  far  as  I  am  able  at  present, 
the  direction  and  probable  progress  of  my  journey,  I  have  to 
express  my  wish,  if  any  serious  and  important  cases  (of  which 
the  probability  is  but  too  strong)  should  arise  during  my  absence, 
that  the  Secretaries  of  the  departments  of  State,  Treasury,  and 


;Et.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  147 

War  may  hold  consultations  thereon,  to  determine  whether  they 
are  of  such  a  nature  as  to  demand  my  personal  attendance  at  the 
seat  of  government ;  and  should  they  be  so  considered,  I  will 
return  immediately  from  any  place  at  which  the  information 
may  reach  me.  Or,  should  they  determine  that  measures  rele- 
vant to  the  case  may  be  legally  and  properly  pursued  without 
the  immediate  agency  of  the  President,  I  will  approve  and  ratify 
the  measures  which  may  be  conformed  to  such  determination. 

Presuming  that  the  Vice-President  will  have  left  the  seat  of 
government  for  Boston,  I  have  not  requested  his  opinion  to  be 
taken  on  the  supposed  emergency ;  should  it  be  otherwise,  I  wish 
him  also  to  be  consulted. 


HAMILTON  TO  WILLIAM  DUER. 

Treasury  Department,  April  7,  1791. 

Sir: 

In  consideration  of  the  moderate  terms  of  Mr.  Fowler's  con- 
tract with  the  public,  and  from  a  disposition  to  give  all  requisite 
aid  to  the  contractor,  in  order  that  the  public  service  may  be 
effectually  and  certainly  performed,  I  accede  to  the  requests  con- 
tained in  your  letter,  as  explained  in  conversation ;  that  is  to  say, 
I  will  advance  immediately  to  you,  as  agent  of  Mr.  Fowler,  thirty 
thousand  dollars,  and  a  further  sum  of  twenty  thousand  dollars 
at  the  expiration  of  forty -five  days  from  the  date  of  this  letter. 

If,  on  the  first  of  October  next,  there  is  a  satisfactory  evidence 
that  the  public  service  has  called  for  supplies  (which  have  been 
furnished)  to  an  amount  sufficient  to  entitle  the  contractor  to  an 
additional  sum  of  thirty  thousand  dollars,  they  shall  be  paid, 
though  he  should  not  be  then  ready  to  comply  with  the  forms  of 
the  treasury. 


148  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON  * 

April  10, 1791. 
*****  It  is  to  be  lamented,  that  our  system  is  such  as  still 
to  leave  the  public  peace  of  the  Union  at  the  mercy  of  each  State 
government.  This  is  not  only  the  case  as  it  regards  direct  inter- 
ferences, but  as  it  regards  the  inability  of  the  national  govern- 
ment, in  many  particulars,  to  take  those  direct  measures  for  car- 
rying into  execution  its  views  and  engagements  which  exigences 
require.  For  example ;  a  party  comes  from  a  county  of  Virginia 
into  Pennsylvania,  and  wantonly  murders  some  friendly  Indians. 
The  national  government,  instead  of  having  power  to  apprehend 
the  murderers  and  bring  them  to  justice,  is  obliged  to  make  a 
representation  to  that  of  Pennsylvania;  that  of  Pennsylvania, 
again,  is  to  make  a  representation  to  that  of  Virginia.  And 
whether  the  murderers  shall  be  brought  to  justice  at  all,  must 
depend  upon  the  particular  policy  and  energy  and  good  disposi- 
tion of  two  State  governments,  and  the  efficacy  of  the  provisions 
of  their  respective  laws ;  and  the  security  of  other  States,  and 
the  money  of  all,  are  at  the  discretion  of  one.  These  things 
require  a  remedy. 


JEFFERSON  TO  HAMILTON. 

April  10th,  1791. 
Th.  Jefferson  has  the  honor  to  send  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Trea- 
sury a  note,  just  received  from  Mr.  Otto,  with  copies  of  a  corres- 
pondence between  certain  bankers  desirous  of  lending  forty  mil- 
lions livres  to  the  United  States,  the  French  minister,  and  Mr. 
Short.  He  will  ask  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury's  consideration 
of  these  papers,  and  that  he  will  be  so  good  as  to  return  them  to 
him,  with  the  substance  of  the  answer  he  would  wish  to  have  given 

*  The  other  parts  of  this  letter  are  not  to  be  found. 


jEt.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  149 

to  Mr.  Otto.  It  is  probable,  indeed,  we  shall  soon  receive  the 
same  correspondence  from  Mr.  Short,  with  his  observations  on 
the  offer  made. 


HAMILTON  TO   WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  April  10th,  1791. 

Sir: 

I  have  the  honor  of  your  letter  of  the  4th  instant,  addressed 
to  the  Secretary  of  State,  the  Secretary  of  War,  and  myself;  to 
which  due  obedience  shall  be  paid  on  my  part. 

A  letter  from  Mr.  Short,  dated  at  Amsterdam,  the  2d  of  De 
cember,  has  just  come  to  hand,  giving  me  an  account  of  his  pro- 
ceedings to  that  period,  a  copy  of  which  will  be  forwarded  by 
the  Tuesday's  post.  He  informs  me,  among  other  things,  that 
he  had  concluded  with  the  bankers  of  the  United  States  to  open 
a  loan,  in  February,  for  two  millions  and  a  half  of  guilders,  at 
five  per  cent,  interest,  and  four  per  cent,  charges,  which  is  a  half 
per  cent,  less  than  the  last.  The  term  of  reimbursement,  fifteen 
years,  beginning  at  the  end  of  ten,  with  liberty  to  the  United 
States  to  reimburse  at  any  time  sooner. 

You  will  recollect  that,  by  particular  instruction  from  you 
to  me,  no  succeeding  loan  is  to  be  opened  until  that  preceding 
has  been  submitted  to  you,  and  received  your  approbation.  As 
it  is  very  desirable  that  no  delay  may  attend  the  progress  of  the 
business,  both  as  it  regards  payments  to  France  and  the  domes- 
tic operations  to  which  the  loans  may  be  applied,  I  have  con- 
cluded to  submit  Mr.  Short's  letter,  to-morrow,  to  the  Vice- 
President  and  the  heads  of  departments,  that  they  may  con- 
sider how  far  the  case  is  within  the  purview  of  your  letter,  and 
whether  it  will  not  be  expedient  to  authorize  Mr.  Short  to  j)ro- 
ceed  upon  a  further  loan  to  the  amount  of  three  millions  of 
guilders,  which  is  the  sum  to  which  the  money-lenders  have 
been  accustomed,  and  that  recommended  by  our  bankers  as  the 
most  proper  to  constitute  each  loan. 


150  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

I  request,  nevertheless,  to  receive  your  instruction  as  soon  as 
possible,  upon  the  subject.  And  I  submit  whether  it  will  not  be 
advisable  to  change  the  restriction  above  mentioned,  so  as  to 
leave  Mr.  Short  at  liberty  to  open  his  loans,  successively,  for 
three  millions  of  dollars  each — no  new  one  to  commence  till 
after  the  preceding  one  has  been  filled — but  without  waiting  for 
a  ratification  from  this  country ;  provided  the  terms  be  not,  in 
any  case,  less  advantageous  than  those  now  announced.  There 
is  always  danger  of  considerable  delay  in  waiting  for  approbation 
from  hence,  before  a  new  loan  can  be  undertaken ;  and  favor- 
able moments  may  be  lost ;  for  there  are  periods  more  or  less 
favorable. 

I  think  there  is  no  probability,  for  some  time  to  come,  that 
loans  can  be  obtained  on  better  terms.  And  I  may  add  that, 
as  far  as  I  can  judge,  Mr.  Short  has  conducted  himself  in  the 
affair  with  judgment  and  discretion,  and  there  will  be  safety  in 
allowing  him  the  latitude  proposed.  I  believe,  also,  it  will  be 
advisable  to  apply  the  present  loan  in  the  same  manner  as 
the  former;  that  is  to  say,  one  half,  or  perhaps  1,500,000 
guilders,  to  the  use  of  France,  and  the  residue  to  the  purchase 
of  the  debt  here.     On  this  point,  also,  I  request  your  direction. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  April  11th,  1791. 

Sir: 

I  have  just  received  a  letter  from  Mr.  King,  in  these  words : 
"  Mr.  Elliott,  who  it  has  been  said  was  appointed,  will  not  come 
to  America,  owing,  say  his  friends  here,  to  a  disinclination  on 
his  part,  which  has  arisen  from  the  death  of  his  eldest  or  only 
son.  Mr.  Seton  yesterday  read  me  an  abstract  of  a  letter  from 
London,  dated  February  2d,  and  written,  as  he  observed,  by  a 
man  of  information,  which  says :  '  Mr.  Frazer  is  appointed 
plenipotentiary  to  the  United  States  of  America,  and  will  go  out 


Mi.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  151 

as  soon  as  it  is  ascertained  here  that  a  correspondent  character 
is  appointed  in  America.'  Although  Mr.  Elliot  might  not  have 
been  altogether  adequate  to  the  appointment,  jet  he  would 
not  have  been  a  bad  choice.  It  is  questionable  whether  we  can 
say  even  as  much  as  that  for  Mr.  Frazer,  who  is  probably  the 
gentleman  lately  resident  with  the  Hansetowns,  and  formerly 
consul  at  Algiers,  and  who  is  said  to  be  a  wrong-headed,  impetu- 
ous man.  Should  this  information  be  correct,  the  appointment 
is  not  only  unpromising,  but  is  also  a  pretty  strong  proof  of  the 
misguided  opinions  of  the  British  administration  concerning  this 
country."  Nothing  except  the  foregoing  letter  occurs  worth 
communication,  more  than  is  contained  in  my  official  dispatch 
herewith. 

With  the  truest  and  most  respectful  attachment,  &c. 


HAMILTON"  TO  JEFFERSON". 

Treasury  Department,  April  12th,  1791. 

Sm: 

I  have  perused  the  papers  communicated  to  you  by  the 
Charge  des  Affaires  of  France. 

The  propositions  to  which  they  relate,  as  far  as  they  are  un- 
derstood, appear  to  me  inadmissible.  The  only  advantage  they 
offer  to  the  United  States  is  a  prolongation  of  the  time  of  reim- 
bursement. The  rate  of  interest  is  to  remain  the  same,  and  the 
place  of  payment,  according  to  the  probable  course  of  exchange, 
is  to  be  altered  for  the  worse  from  Paris  to  Amsterdam.  A  pre- 
mium of  five  per  cent,  is  also  required,  while  the  charges  on  the 
loans  we  make  in  Holland  do  not  exceed  four.  There  is,  however, 
a  proposition  which  is  not  understood :  it  is  that  the  exchange  on 
the  sum  to  be  paid  at  Paris  and  received  at  Amsterdam  shall  be 
regulated  according  to  the  tariff  announced  in  the  law  of  Con- 
gress. Now  there  is  nothing  in  the  laws  of  the  United  States 
to  which  I  can  apply  the  term  tariff.     It  is  possible,  however, 


152  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

that  Mr.  Short's  letters,  when  received,  may  throw  light  on  this 
point  and  some  others,  which  may  give  a  different  complexion  to 
the  business. 

But  there  are  various  collateral  considerations  in  relation  to 
the  transfer  of  the  debt  due  from  the  United  States  to  France, 
affecting  the  credit  and  financial  operations  of  this  country,  which 
will  make  it  in  almost  any  form  a  delicate  operation. 

It  is  desirable  on  every  account  to  make  expeditious  payment 
to  France,  but  this  desire  must  be  conciliated  with  that  of  invigo- 
rating and  perfecting  the  system  of  public  credit  of  the  United 
States,  and  in  adhering  to  this  idea  there  is  the  additional  induce- 
ment of  a  tolerable  prospect  of  satisfying  the  claims  of  France  in 
a  manner  perhaps  as  expeditious  and  probably  more  effica- 
cious than  would  be  incident  to  an  acquiescence  in  the  proposed 
plan. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be  with  great  respect,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  WILLIAM  SHORT,   AMSTERDAM. 

Treasury  Department,  April  13th,  1791. 

Sir: 

I  have  recently  received  your  letters  of  the  2d  of  December 
and  the  25th  of  January.  The  others  to  which  they  refer  have 
not  yet  come  to  hand. 

The  manner  in  which  you  have  proceeded,  as  detailed  in 
your  letter  of  the  2d  of  December,  is  entirely  satisfactory  to  me, 
and  I  doubt  not  will  be  equally  so  to  the  President,  when  known 
to  him.  He  is  now  absent  on  a  journey  through  the  Southern 
States. 

Id  consequence  of  the  arrangement  which  has  been  made  by 
the  President  relative  to  cases  occurring  in  his  absence,  I  am  at 
liberty  to  authorize  you  as  soon  as  the  loan  you  announce  is  filled, 
to  cause  another  to  be  opened  for  three  millions  of  guilders,  which 
I  accordingly  do. 


iET.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  153 

One  million  and  a  half  of  the  loan  you  have  set  on  foot  is 
destined  as  a  payment  to  France,  and  you  will  please  to  take  as 
early  measures  as  possible  to  have  the  million  remitted  to  Paris ; 
the  half  million  will  wait  for  a  farther  direction.  I  observe  that 
the  remittance  of  the  million  and  a  half  of  the  last  loan  has  been 
effected  with  considerable  advantage  to  the  United  States.  I 
presume  that  a  similar  advantage  will  for  some  time  to  come  at- 
tend succeeding  remittances. 

Though  your  letters,  detailing  the  nature  of  the  offers  for  a 
transfer  of  the  debt  due  to  France,  are  not  arrived,  a  communica- 
tion through  the  Charge  des  Affaires  of  France  to  the  Secretary 
of  State  has  given  me  the  requisite  information.  There  is,  how- 
ever, one  proposition  of  Messieurs  Schweizer,  Jeanneret  &  Co., 
which  I  do  not  understand.  It  is  the  fourth,  to  this  effect :  "  The 
difference  of  exchange  upon  the  forty  millions  to  be  furnished  at 
Paris,  and  upon  the  same  sum  to  be  received  in  contracts  of  the 
United  States,  shall  be  regulated  according  to  the  tariff  an- 
nounced in  the  law  of  Congress."  "What  is  meant  by  this  tariff 
I  am  wholly  at  a  loss  to  determine ;  there  being  nothing  in  the 
law  of  Congress  to  which  I  can  apply  the  term. 

This  being  the  case,  the  propositions  with  the  sole  advantage 
of  a  prolonged  period  of  reimbursement,  would  leave  the  debt 
at  the  same  rate  of  interest,  and  involve  the  disadvantage  of 
making  it  payable  at  Amsterdam  instead  of  Paris,  (subjecting  the 
United  States  thereby  to  the  loss  arising  from  a  less  favorable 
course  of  exchange,)  together  with  the  further  disadvantage  of  a 
l^remium  of  five  per  cent,  instead  of  four. 

In  this  view  of  the  matter  the  propositions  are  inadmissible. 
Your  letter,  however,  by  explaining  the  one  I  have  quoted,  may 
possibly  throw  new  light  on  the  subject.  But  I  do  not  despair 
that  offers  will  be  made  better  corresponding  with  the  terms  you 
are  at  liberty  to  accept. 

The  domestic  debt  of  the  United  States  has  reached  the  fol- 
lowing prices  in  our  market : 

Six  per  cent,  funded  stock,  bearing  interest  from  the  1st 
instant,  17s.  per  £,  or  85  per  cent.,  and  much  in  demand. 

Deferred  six  per  cent,  stock  95.  per  £,  or  45  per  cent. 


154  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  |>Et.  34. 

Three  per  cents,  bearing  interest  from  the  1st  instant,  9s.  per 
£,  or  45  per  cent.,  much  in  demand  and  rising. 
I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 

P.  S. — I  omitted  to  make  you  my  acknowledgments  for  the 
returns  of  exports  from  St.  Petersburg,  which  I  beg  you  now 
to  accept.  Such  documents  will  always  be  most  acceptable,  and, 
whenever  they  can  be  obtained  without  trouble  or  expense,  I 
would  request  your  transmitting  to  me  copies  of  such  as  you 
may  be  able  to  procure.  I  have  at  present  to  ask  of  you  the 
favor  of  obtaining  for  me  the  best  information  in  your  power 
concerning  the  establishment  of  the  mint  in  the  United  Nether- 
lands ;  the  different  offices,  compensations  to  the  persons  engaged 
in  it,  the  standards,  weights,  values,  &c.  of  the  coins,  and  such 
other  particulars  as  are  ever  communicated,  will  all  be  desirable. 

The  situation  of  our  East  India  trade  renders  it  an  object  to 
obtain  an  account  of  the  state  of  that  branch  of  commerce  in 
foreign  countries.  If  you  could  with  convenience  furnish  me 
with  any  thing  relative  to  that  of  the  United  Nether]  ands,  it  may 
be  useful  at  the  present  moment.  I  am  particularly  drawn  to 
inquire  about  the  affairs  of  the  Dutch  East  India  Company,  by 
the  circumstance  of  their  borrowing  money,  and  at  an  high 
interest. 


HAMILTON   TO   WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  April  14.  1791. 

Sir: 

I  have  the  honor  to  send  herewith  a  copy  of  my  letter  of  the 
10th  inst.,  and  of  that  from  Mr.  Short  of  the  2d  of  December,  to 
which  it  refers ;  and  also  the  copy  of  another  letter  from  Mr. 
Short  of  the  25th  of  January. 

The  result  of  my  submission  to  the  Vice-President  and  the 
heads  of  departments  has  been,  that  they  have  unanimously  ad- 


Mi.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  155 

vised  me  to  instruct  Mr.  Short  to  proceed  to  open  a  second  loan 
as  soon  as  the  first  shall  be  filled,  and  to  extend  the  sum  from 
two  and  a  half  to  three  millions  of  guilders.  I  nevertheless  re- 
quest your  direction  concerning  the  alteration  in  his  instructions 
generally,  which  is  proposed  in  my  letter. 

Finding,  on  recurring  to  it,  your  instruction  to  me  competent 
to  the  disposition  of  the  sum  borrowed,  I  have  directed  Mr.  Short 
to  apply  one  million  and  a  half  of  the  loan  which  was  to  com- 
mence in  February,  as  a  payment  to  France.  The  exchange  be- 
tween France  and  Holland  afforded  a  benefit  of  more  than  ten 
per  cent,  to  the  United  States  on  the  last  payment. 

I  thought  it  advisable  to  dispose  of  a  principal  part  of  the 
loan  to  this  object,  not  only  from  the  general  considerations 
which  operate  in  the  case,  but  from  a  desire  to  counteract  the 
success  of  some  negotiations  with  the  French  court  for  the  pur- 
chase of  the  debt  due  from  us,  which  are  not  for  the  interests  of 
the  United  States. 


HAMILTON  TO  JEFFERSON. 

Treasury  Department,  April  15,  1791. 

Sir: 

The  letter  you  sent  me  from  Mr.  Short,  and  others  which  I 
have  received  since  mine  to  you,  confirm  the  views  of  the  subject 
therein  taken.  This  you  will  perceive,  from  the  following  pas- 
sages extracted  from  one  of  them :  "  Since  then  (speaking  of 
former  overtures),  another  company  has  presented  itself  for  the 
same  object,  with  a  scheme  by  which  the  United  States  are  to 
make  the  sacrifices  on  which  they  count  for  their  profits."  "  The 
object  of  this  company  is,  as  you  will  see,  to  pay  livres  tour- 
nois  in  their  present  depreciated  state,  and  to  receive  from  the 
United  States  florins  at  the  usual  exchange ;  by  this  means 
France  would  receive  from  them  as  much  as  she  is  entitled  to  receive 
from  us,  but  we  should  be  obliged  to  pay  the  company  much  more 
than  we  are  obliged  to  pay  France."     "  Had  I  had  powers  compe- 


156  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  34. 

tent  to  the  purpose,  I  should  not  have  thought  myself  justified 
to  have  opened  such  a  negotiation,  where  there  was  all  loss  and 
no  prospect  of  advantage  to  the  United  States."  *  *  *  *  "I  must 
also  add,  that  the  house  which  makes  these  propositions  is  entire- 
ly unknown  here,  and  that  France  feared  even  their  names  at 
Paris,  which  proves  that  it  must  be  an  inconsiderable  one." 
Consequently,  the  credit  of  the  United  States  would  be  in  immi- 
nent danger  of  suffering  in  their  hands. 

I  have  authorized  Mr.  Short  to  apply  a  million  and  a  half  of 
florins  of  the  loan  he  has  opened  to  the  use  of  France,  and  shall 
press  as  large  payments  as  may  be  practicable  to  her. 

I  take  it  for  granted  that  the  court  of  France  will  not  attempt 
any  operation  with  the  debt  without  the  consent  of  the  United 
States.  Any  thing  of  this  sort,  considering  the  efforts  which  are 
making  on  our  part  to  discharge  the  debt,  would  certainly  be 
very  exceptionable.  Indeed  I  do  not  see  how  any  valid  disposi 
tion  of  the  debt  of  a  sovereign  power  can  be  made  without  its 
consent ;  but  it  would  be  disagreeable  to  have  to  use  this  argu- 
ment.    I  trust  it  will  never  be  rendered  necessary. 


WASHINGTON   TO   HAMILTON. 

Charleston,  May  7,  1791. 

Sir: 

I  have  received  your  letters  of  the  11th  and  14th  of  last 
month.  Concluding,  from  Mr.  Short's  statement  of  his  negotia- 
tion in  Amsterdam,  and  from  the  opinions  offered  in  your  letter 
of  the  11th,  that  the  loan  has  been  obtained  on  the  best  terms 
practicable,  and  that  its  application  in  the  manner  you  propose 
will  be  the  most  advantageous  to  the  United  States,  I  do  hereby 
signify  my  approbation  of  what  has  been  already  done,  as  commu- 
nicated in  your  letters  of  the  11th  and  14th  of  April.  Assenting 
to  the  further  progress  of  the  loans,  as  recommended  by  you  in 


Mt.  34.]  CABINET     PAPERS.  157 

these  letters,  I  request  that  instructions  may  be  given  for  com- 
pleting them  agreeably  thereto. 


HAMILTON  TO  WILLIAM   SHORT. 

Treasury  Department.  Philadelphia,  May  9,  1791. 

Sir: 

Since  mine  to  you  of  the  18th  of  April,  I  have  received  your 
several  letters  of  the  18th  and  30th  of  December,  the  loth  of 
January,  the  7th,  17th,  and  22d  of  February. 

Thanking  you  for  the  copious  information  they  contain,  I 
assure  you  that  the  further  development  of  the  business  has  in- 
creased my  satisfaction  with  the  course  you  have  pursued.  The 
issue  of  the  loan  set  on  foot  by  you  is  too  favorable  to  the  credit 
of  this  country  not  to  be  particularly  pleasing. 

I  was  apprehensive  that  inconvenience  might  attend  the  re- 
striction by  which  you  are  required  to  defer  opening  a  new  loan, 
till  the  preceding  one  has  been  communicated  and  approved. 
And  I  doubt  not  that  the  President  will  readily  consent  to  re- 
move it,  on  perceiving  that  it  has  occasioned  embarrassment. 
He  is  expected  to  return  to  this  place  by  the  middle  of  June  ; 
though,  as  I  have  written  to  him  on  the  subject,  it  is  probable 
that  I  shall,  before  his  return,  receive  orders  to  give  you  greater 
latitude. 

My  letter  of  the  18th  of  April  will  have  enabled  you  to  open 
a  second  loan,  either  in  Holland,  or  in  the  place  to  which  Mr. 
Morris  alludes — if  the  supposed  opportunity  shall  have  been 
found  real,  and  shall  not  have  passed  by.  It  certainly  would  be 
very  desirable  to  be  able  to  resort  to  more  markets  than  one, 
and  if  one  of  those  markets  should  happen  to  be  England,  it 
would  not  be  the  worse  on  that  account.  I  think  there  is  a  train 
of  good  consequences  involved  in  the  idea  of  opening  the  purses 
of  moneyed  men  in  that  country  to  the  government  of  this.  I 
suspect,  nevertheless,  that  it  would  not  be  long  tolerated. 


158  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

My  objections  to  the  negotiation  yon  announce  for  obtaining 
a  transfer  of  the  debt  due  to  France,  have  been  confirmed  by 
your  subsequent  communications. 

You  are  informed  that  a  million  and  a  half  of  the  last  loan 
is  destined  for  France,  and  authorized  immediately  to  apply  a 
million.  I  am  now  to  inform  you  that  directions  have  been  given 
to  the  Treasurer  to  draw  for  eight  hundred  thousand.  Leaving 
funds  for  answering  this  sum,  you  are  at  liberty  to  complete  the 
payment  of  the  whole  sum  destined  for  France  as  speedily  as 
you  think  fit. 

When  the  President  returns  I  shall  take  with  him  a  definitive 
arrangement,  and  give  you  a  general  view  of  the  disposition  in- 
tended to  be  made. 


HAMILTON  TO  WILLIAM   SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  May  24th,  1791. 

Sir: 

The  President  of  the  United  States  has  signified  to  me  his 
pleasure  that  I  should  revoke  that  part  of  your  instructions 
which  confines  you  to  opening  loans  for  no  greater  sum,  at  a 
time,  than  one  million  of  dollars,  and  which  restrains  you  from 
opening  a  subsequent  loan  till  the  one  preceding  has  received 
his  approbation  ;  and  has  also  instructed  me  to  authorize  you  to 
open  each  future  loan  for  three  millions  of  florins ;  and  as  soon 
as  one  loan  shall  be  filled  or  subscribed,  to  open  another,  till  the 
sum  necessary  for  fulfilling  the  act  entitled,  "An  act  making 
provision  for  the  reduction  of  the  public  debt,  and  for  paying 
the  arrears  of  interest,  and  instalments  of  principal,  which  shall 
have  become  due  to  France,  to  the  end  of  the  present  year,"  shall 
have  been  completed  ;  provided,  however,  that  the  terms  be  not 
less  advantageous  than  those  upon  which  the  last  loan  has  been 
effected. 

With  regard  to  the  application  of  the  moneys  that  shall  arise 


jEt.34.]  cabinet    papers.  159 

from  the  loans  you  may  make,  subsequent  to  that  which  has  been 
already  announced,  it  is  to  be  as  follows :  Reserving  in  the  hands 
of  our  bankers  one  million  and  a  half  of  the  next  succeeding 
loan,  and  a  million  of  the  one  immediately  succeeding  that,  for 
completing  the  purpose  of  the  Act  above  mentioned,  the  residue 
of  each,  and  the  whole  of  the  future  loans,  are  to  be  applied  in 
payments  to  France,  unless  directions  shall  at  any  time  be  given 
to  the  contrary.  The  first  money  which  shall  be  paid  in  upon 
the  two  loans,  out  of  which  reservations  are  to  be  made  to  the 
extent  contemplated,  are,  nevertheless,  to  be  applied  towards  the 
payments  to  France ;  which  you  will  accordingly  cause  to  be 
done. 

You  will  doubtless  continue  to  keep  me  punctually  advised 
of  your  operations. 

With  very  great  consideration,  and  the  most  cordial  esteem, 
fa. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Mount  Vernon,  June  13th,  1791. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

I  am  arrived  at  this  place,  and  just  in  time  to  acknowledge 
(in  a  hasty  manner,  by  this  day's  post,  the  first  opportunity  that 
has  offered  of  writing  to  Philadelphia  since  I  left  Savannah)  the 
receipt  of  your  private  letter  of  the  17th  of  April,  by  Mr.  Smith, 
who  lodged  it  at  Camden,  through  which  it  was  known  my  route 
would  be,  on  my  return  to  the  seat  of  government. 

Mr.  Woolcott  may  be  informed  that  it  is  my  intention  to  ap- 
point him  to  the  office  of  Comptroller.  With  respect  to  his  suc- 
cessor as  Auditor,  I  shall  suspend  my  determination,  if  no 
manifest  inconvenience  will  result  from  it,  until  my  arrival  in 
Philadelphia,  which,  however,  is  not  likely  to  happen  before  the 
5th  or  6th  of  July,  as,  by  appointment  at  the  last  meeting,  I  am 
to  meet  the  commissioners  under  the  residence  act,  on  Monday, 
the  27th  instant,  at  Georgetown,  and  may,  for  aught  I  know  to 


160  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

the  contrary,  be  detained  there  several  days ;  and  I  afterwards 
must  move  slowly,  on  account  of  the  exhausted  condition  of  my 
horses. 

No  letters  from  the  northward  or  eastward  of  this,  bearing 
date  between  the  15th  and  30th  of  May,  have  come  to  my  hands ; 
and  having  abundant  evidence,  before  I  reached  Charleston,  of 
the  slow  movements  of  the  mail  through  the  three  southernmost 
States,  I  did,  before  I  left  that  place  on  the  9th  of  that  month, 
direct  that  all  letters  which  might  be  for  and  following  me 
should  be  returned  to  Fredericksburg,  as  the  first  place  at 
which  I  should  touch  the  post-line  upon  my  return.  But  these 
directions  not  arriving  in  Eichmond  in  time,  as  I  conjecture,  the 
letters  of  that  interval,  agreeably  to  the  superscriptions  which  I 
am  informed  were  on  them,  were  forwarded  from  that  place  to 
Taylor's  Ferry,  in  expectation  of  meeting  me  there.  To  this 
circumstance,  which  was  unknown  to  me,  and  to  finding,  from 
better  information  than  I  set  out  with,  that  it  would  be  more 
convenient  to  cross  James  Kiver  higher  up  than  at  Taylor's,  is 
to  be  ascribed  my  missing  the  communications  which  were  made 
between  the  loth  and  30th  of  May,  as  mentioned  before.  These 
dispatches  I  may  be  long  without,  and  perhaps  never  get ;  for 
there  are  no  cross-posts  in  those  parts,  and  the  letters,  which  will 
have  to  pass  through  many  hands,  may  find  some  who  are  not 
deficient  in  curiosity. 

My  return  to  this  place  is  sooner  than  I  expected,  owing  to 
the  uninterrupted!] ess  of  my  journey  by  sickness,  from  bad 
weather,  or  accidents  of  any  kind  whatsoever.  Having  obtained, 
before  I  left  Philadelphia,  the  most  accurate  accounts  I  could 
get  there  of  the  places  and  roads  through  and  by  which  I  was  to 
perform  my  tour,  and  the  distances  between  the  former,  I  formed 
my  line  of  march  accordingly,  fixing  each  day's  journey  and  the 
day  to  halt ;  from  neither  of  which  have  I  departed  in  a  single 
instance,  except  staying,  from  a  particular  circumstance,  two  days 
in  Columbia,  and  none  at  Charlotte,  instead  of  one  at  each,  and 
crossing  James  Kiver  at  Carter's  Ferry  in  place  of  Taylor's,  as 
was  the  original  intention.  But  the  improbability  of  performing 
a  tour  of  seventeen  hundred  miles  (I  have  already  rode  more) 


jEt.  34.]  CABINET     PAPERS.  161 

with  the  same  set  of  horses,  without  encountering  any  accident 
by  which  a  deviation  would  be  rendered  unavoidable,  appeared 
so  great,  that  I  allowed  eight  days  for  casualties,  and  six  to  re- 
fresh at  this  place  when  I  should  have  returned  to  it.  None  of 
the  former  having  happened,  accounts  for  the  fourteen  days  I 
shall  remain  here  before  the  meeting  with  the  commissioners ; 
one  of  whom,  Mr.  Johnson,  Chief  Justice  of  the  State  of  Mary- 
land, and  living  at  a  considerable  distance  from  Georgetown, 
having  made  his  arrangements  agreeably  thereto;  would  not  be 
able  to  meet  me  sooner. 

I  mention  this  matter,  that,  if  there  is  any  thing  pressing  in 
either  of  the  departments,  it  may  be  known  where  I  am. 


HAMILTON  TO   WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  June  19,  1791. 

Sir: 

I  have  been  duly  honored  with  your  letter  of  the  13th  inst., 
from  Mount  Yernon;  and,  according  to  your  desire,  have  in- 
formed Mr.  Wolcott  of  your  intention  to  appoint  him  Comptrol- 
ler. This  appointment  gives  me  particular  pleasure,  as  I  am 
confident  it  will  be  a  great  and  real  improvement  in  the  state  of 
the  treasury  department.  There  can  no  material  inconvenience 
attend  the  postponing  a  decision  concerning  the  future  Auditor 
till  your  arrival  in  this  city. 

I  am  very  happy  to  learn  that  the  circumstances  of  your 
journey  have  been  in  all  respects  so  favorable.  It  has  certainly 
been  a  particularly  fortunate  one,  and  I  doubt  not  it  will  have 
been  of  real  utility. 

There  is  nothing  which  can  be  said  to  be  new  here  worth 
communicating,  except  generally  that  all  my  accounts  from 
Europe,  both  private  and  official,  concur  in  proving  that  the 
impressions  now  entertained  of  our  government  and  its  affairs 
(I  may  say)  throughout  that  quarter  of  the  globe  are  of  a  nature 
the  most  flattering  and  pleasing. 

D  11 


162  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 


HAMILTON   TO   JEFFERSON. 

Treasury  Department,  June  21,  1791. 

Sir: 

It  has  occurred  to  me  that  it  would  be  productive  of  very 
useful  information,  if  some  officer  of  the  United  States,  in  each 
foreign  country  where  there  is  one,  were  instructed  to  transmit 
occasionally  a  state  of  the  coins  of  the  country,  specifying  their 
respective  standards,  weights,  and  values;  and,  periodically,  a 
state  of  the  market  prices  of  gold  and  silver  in  coin  and  bullion, 
and  of  the  rates  of  foreign  exchange  ;  and  of  the  rates  of  the  dif- 
ferent kinds  of  labor,  as  well  that  employed  in  manufactures  and 
in  tillage. 

I  would  beg  leave  to  request,  if  there  appears  to  you  no 
inconvenience  in  the  thing,  that  an  instruction  may  be  sent  for 
the  above  purpose,  and  that  copies  of  the  statements  which  shall 
from  time  to  time  be  received  in  consequence  of  it  may  be  fur- 
nished to  the  treasury. 


HAMILTON  TO   WILLIAM    SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  June  25th,  1791. 

Sir: 

I  received  two  days  since  your  letter  of  the  11th  of  March 
last. 

Mine  to  you  of  the  13th  of  April  and  of  the  9th  and  24th  of 
May  (of  which  copies  are  herewith  sent),  will  have  informed  you 
of  my  opinion  Concerning  the  negotiation  for  the  transfer  of  the 
debt  due  to  France,  will  have  removed  the  impediments  to  your 
progress  in  the  business  committed  to  you,  and  will  have  apprised 
you  of  my  views  generally. 

You  will  readily  imagine  that  it  must  have  been  in  a  great 
degree  necessary  to  let  the  development  of  our  prospects  at  home 
precede  a  definitive  arrangement  with  regard  to  the  disposition 


jEt.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  163 

of  foreign  resources ;  and  yon  will,  from  this,  account  for  your 
not  having  been  earlier  apprised  of  what  was  to  be  done. 

It  is  not  impossible  that  the  return  of  the  President  to  this 
place,  which  is  expected  to  be  on  the  4th  or  5th  of  next  month, 
will  give  you  still  greater  latitude  than  has  yet  been  given. 

I  observe  with  some  surprise  the  application  which  has  been 
made  by  Mr.  Grand.  Surely  the  naming  of  a  place  in  any  con- 
tract for  the  payment  of  moneys,  can  have  reference  only  to  the 
contracting  parties,  and  may  at  pleasure  be  changed  by  their 
joint  consent. 

Your  suggestion  as  to  the  expediency  of  diffusing  in  Holland 
a  knowledge  of  the  affairs  of  the  United  States,  is  evidently  well 
founded. 

It  would,  however,  be  of  some  delicacy  to  select  such  things 
as  might  make  a  favorable  impression  from  those  which  might 
have  a  contrary  tendency,  which  cannot  be  well  judged  of  but  by 
a  person  on  or  near  the  spot.  And  unless  there  were  an  Ameri- 
can character  stationary  in  the  scene  itself,  there  would  be  little 
certainty  of  a  disinterested  or  judicious  selection. 

With  great  consideration  and  esteem,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  WILLIAM  SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  June  30th,  1791. 

Sir: 

Since  closing  my  letter  herewith  transmitted,  yours  of  the 
4th  of  March  transmitting  a  copy  of  the  contract  for  the  last 
loan  has  been  delivered  to  me. 

A  ratification  of  that  contract  by  the  President  will  be  for- 
warded as  speedily  as  possible  after  his  return  to  the  seat  of  gov- 
ernment, which  is  expected  to  be  in  the  first  week  of  the  next 
month. 

There  is  in  a  late  letter  from  Messrs.  Willinks  and  Van  Stap- 
horst  something  like  a  hope  expressed  of  a  possibility  ere  long 


164  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

to  obtain  money  for  the  United  States  at  a  lower  rate  of  interest 
than  heretofore,  if  a  competent  discretion  be  allowed  to  watch 
and  improve  favorable  moments.  There  is  no  disinclination  here 
to  your  allowing  those  gentlemen  such  a  discretion  as  you  may 
judge  requisite  to  the  accomplishment  of  so  valuable  an  end, 
within  the  limits  of  your  own. 

Lest  any  misapprehension  should  arise  from  the  mode  of  ex- 
pression in  my  letter  of  the  24th  of  May,  you  will  please  to 
understand  that  you  are  at  liberty  to  set  on  foot  a  new  loan, 
upon  the  amount  of  the  first  being  taken  up  or  contracted  for.  I 
observe  that  the  word  subscribed  is  used  in  different  letters  from 
Holland  as  synonymous  with  the  "payment  of  the  money  contracted 
for,  or,  as  we  should  say  here,  subscribed. 

With  very  great  consideration  and  esteem,  &c. 


SHORT  TO  HAMILTON. 

Paris,  July  19,  1791. 

■*  *  *  *  *  jn  answer  to  my  letters  with  respect  to  a  loan  at  4| 
per  cent,  interest  and  also  a  diminution  of  the  charges  in  case  of 
the  interest  being  continued  at  5  per  cent.,  they  continue  to  say 
that  the  reduced  interest  can  be  hoped  for  only  from  delaying  the 
loan  and  augmenting  the  commission.  And  as  to  the  loan  on 
the  same  interest  they  persist  in  assuring  that  no  diminution  of 
the  charges  can  take  place ;  they  say  that  the  bonds  will  inevitably 
fall  to  par  on  such  a  loan  being  proposed,  the  rise  to  101  having 
taken  place  only  from  its  having  been  believed  that  no  other 
5  per  cent,  loans  would  be  proposed,  and  that  the  bonds  may 
be  now  had  at  100^  in  parcels;  they  add  that  it  would  be  highly 
impolitic  to  risk  the  good  will  of  the  undertakers  by  reducing  J 
per  cent,  on  their  commission  as  I  proposed.  I  own  I  am  not  of 
the  same  opinion,  and  am  persuaded,  that  if  they  pleased,  they 
might  carry  through  a  loan  at  3  J  per  cent,  commission.  I  have 
not  informed  them  of  my  intention  to  open  soon  a  loan  either 


jEt.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  165 

there  or  elsewhere,  but  only  have  given  them  to  understand, 
which  they  know,  however,  full  as  well  as  I  do,  that  Congress 
will  soon  have  occasion  for  further  loans:  and  so  the  matter 
stands  with  respect  to  them. 

Mr.  Morris  is  in  correspondence  with  his  friends  at  Antwerp, 
respecting  a  loan  as  mentioned  to  you  in  a  former  letter.  He 
showed  me  a  letter  from  them  in  which  they  say  that  they  think 
a  small  sum  might  be  raised  at  4J  per  cent,  by  allowing  sufficient 
time,  but  that  the  commission  must  be  6  per  cent.  I  have  autho- 
rized Mr.  Morris  to  propose  to  them  a  commission  of  4  per  cent., 
and  to  say  that  in  that  case  I  would  contract  with  them.  He  is 
now  waiting  for  their  answer,  though  I  have  little  hopes  they 
will  take  so  low  a  commission.  As  it  would  be  highly  advanta- 
geous, however,  to  make  such  a  loan  even  as  they  offer,  I  may, 
perhaps,  be  tempted  to  accept  it  if  nothing  better  can  be  done. 

The  bankers  at  Amsterdam  have  written  to  me,  that  they 
have  no  doubt  that  a  loan  opened  there  the  middle  of  next 
month  might  be  pushed  to  six  millions  of  florins,  at  5  per  cent. 
The  same  interest  would  unquestionably  procure  loans  also  at 
Antwerp,  and  perhaps  at  Genoa.  These  resources  being  used, 
the  French  debt,  as  far  as  due,  might  be  immediately  paid, 
and  large  sums  remitted  to  you  for  purchasing  up  the  American 
funds,  which,  bearing  an  higher  interest  and  selling  considerably 
below  par,  present  great  advantages  for  the  public  credit.  The 
benefit  of  such  measures  depending  on  a  general  combination  of 
your  plans,  no  steps  of  course  can  be  taken  towards  it  but  by 
your  orders.  The  view,  however,  in  which  this  subject  has  long 
presented  itself  to  me,  makes  me  regret  that  such  advantages 
should  be  lost  or  delaj^ed.  It  is  useless  to  mention  to  you  the 
effect  which  our  domestic  funds  being  at  par  would  have  on  the 
credit  abroad. 

I  have  never  known  the  reason  why  the  Senate  threw  out 
the  bill  for  paying  off  the  foreign  officers ;  it  would  certainly 
have  had  an  happy  influence  on  our  credit,  and  particularly  here. 
Its  not  being  done  would  thwart  much  any  design  of  borrowing 
money  in  Paris  to  pay  off  the  French  debt,  or  at  least  would  ren- 
der the  terms  less  advantageous. 


166  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

I  have  thus  made  you  acquainted,  sir,  with  the  present  po- 
sition of  affairs,  and  shall  take  care  to  inform  you  of  every  step 
that  is  taken  respecting  them. 

Various  circumstances  have  prevented  the  directors  of  the 
mint  here  giving  me  as  yet  the  information  they  promised.  As 
soon  as  obtained  it  shall  be  forwarded  to  you. 


HAMILTON  TO  SUPERVISORS  OF  BOSTON. 

Treasury  Department,  July  27,  1791. 

Gentlemen  : 

A  temporary  absence  from  the  seat  of  government  has  de- 
layed an  answer  to  your  letter  of  the  14th  inst. 

It  is  an  established  rule  at  the  treasury,  not  to  disclose  the 
amount  of  the  stock  which  stands  to  the  credit  of  any  person  on 
the  public  books  to  any  but  the  proprietor  himself,  or  his  regular 
representative ;  and  the  reasons  extend,  of  course,  to  the  respec- 
tive loan  offices. 

One  of  those  reasons  is,  that  as  property  in  the  public  funds 
constitutes  an  usual  and  a  considerable  portion  of  mercantile 
capital,  wherever  public  credit  is  well  supported,  the  permitting 
an  inspection  into  the  stock  account  of  individuals  to  others  than 
the  parties  respectively  interested,  would  have  a  tendency  to  lay 
open  the  affairs  and  operations  of  merchants  more  than  is  con- 
sistent with  the  spirit  of  trade.  Indeed,  not  only  merchants,  but 
other  classes  of  citizens,  may  often  have  very  fair  and  valid  rea- 
sons for  being  disinclined  to  such  an  inspection ;  and  it  may  be 
even  conceived,  that  it  would  not  at  all  times  be  expedient  to 
allow  access  to  the  secret  emissaries  of  a  foreign  power  to  dis- 
cover the  quantum  of  interest  which  its  own  citizens  might  have 
in  the  funds  of  a  nation. 

In  thus  assigning  some  of  the  reasons  which  have  given  occa- 
sion to  the  rule  that  has  been  mentioned,  I  yield  to  a  desire  of 
satisfying  the  Board  that  it  is  not  unsupported  by  considerations 


Mt.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  167 

of  weight,  and  that  a  relaxation  of  it,  in  compliance  with  their 
request,  could  not  with  propriety  be  acceded  to  on  my  part. 

At  the  same  time,  I  feel  myself  called  upon  by  the  occasion 
to  express  an  opinion,  that  every  thing  in  the  nature  of  a  direct  ] 
tax  on  property  in  the  funds  of  the  United  States,  is  contrary  to 
the  true  principles  of  public  credit,  and  tends  to  disparage  the 
value  of  the  public  stock.  If  any  law  of  the  State  of  Massachu- 
setts, therefore,  gives  sanction  to  such  a  tax,  it  is  presumed  that 
it  must  have  been  passed  without  an  advertence  to  this  important 
idea ;  and  it  is  not  doubted  that,  in  the  execution  of  it,  there  will 
be  all  the  care  and  moderation  which  the  delicacy  of  the  opera- 
tion requires.  It  is  desirable,  on  every  account,  that  no  occasion 
should  be  given  to  a  discussion  concerning  the  regularity  of  the 
proceeding. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  July  29,  1791. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  having  had  the  honor  to  lay 
before  the  President  of  the  United  States  the  correspondence  of 
Mr.  Short  respecting  the  loans  made,  and  to  be  made,  pursuant 
to  the  several  Acts  of  Congress  for  that  purpose,  begs  leave  to 
note  particularly  for  his  consideration  two  circumstances  which 
appear  in  that  correspondence. 

First,  that  there  are  moments  when  larsre  sums  mav  be  bor- 
rowed  in  Holland  with  more  facility  and  advantage  than  small 
sums  at  other  times. 

Secondly,  that  there  is  some  prospect  of  opening  loans  with 
success  in  other  countries  than  the  United  Netherlands. 

These  circumstances  appearing,  the  Secretary  respectfully 
requests  the  consideration  and  instruction  of  the  President  of  the 
United  States,  whether  it  may  not  be  expedient  to  remove  the 
present  restrictions  upon  Mr.  Short,  so  as  to  enable  him  to  em- 
brace favorable  moments,  and  open  at  his  discretion  loans,  at  such 
times  and  places,  and  for  such  sums,  as  he  may  find  advisable, 
within  the  limitations  of  the  respective  laws  authorizing  the  loans. 


168  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 


WASHINGTON  TO   HAMILTON. 

United  STATes,  July  29,  1791. 

Upon  a  full  consideration  of  the  reasons  offered  by  Mr.  Short, 
in  his  correspondence  with  you,  for  removing  the  restrictions 
laid  upon  him  by  his  present  instructions,  so  far  as  relates  to  his 
not  opening  a  loan  for  more  than  a  certain  sum,  and  not  being 
allowed  to  open  a  new  loan  until  the  terms  of  the  preceding  one 
shall  have  been  ratified  here,  I  have  thought  it  expedient,  and 
for  the  interest  of  the  United  States,  that  these  restrictions  should 
be  removed.  And  I  do  hereby  authorize  you  to  inform  Mr. 
Short,  that  he  may  open  at  his  discretion  loans  for  the  United 
States,  at  such  times  and  places  and  for  such  sums  as  he  may 
find  advisable,  within  the  limitations  of  the  respective  laws  au- 
thorizing these  loans. 


HAMILTON   TO   WILLIAM  SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  August  1st,  1791, 

Sir: 

Since  my  last  letter  to  you,  yours  of  the  4th  of  May  has 
come  to  hand. 

Pursuant  to  instructions  recently  received  from  the  President 
of  the  United  States,  I  am  at  liberty  to  authorize  you  "  to  open, 
at  your  discretion,  loans,  at  such  times  and  places,  and  for  such 
sums  as  you  may  find  advisable,  within  the  limitations  of  the 
respective  laws  authorizing  the  loans,"  and  which  have  been 
transmitted  to  you.  This,  accordingly,  I  now  do,  subject  only 
to  the  following  qualification :  That  with  regard  to  such  parts 
of  the  principal  of  our  foreign  debt  as  will  not  fall  due  till  after  the 
year  1792,  no  loan  is  to  be  opened  which  will  cost  the  United 
States,  in  interest  and  charges,  more  than  four  and  a  half  per 
cent,  on  the  sum  actually  received  by  them. 


jEt.  34.]  cabinet   papers.  169 

This  restriction  is  founded  on  an  expectation  of  being  able, 
ere  that  period  arrives,  to  borrow  money  within  that  limit. 

You  will  now  find  yourself  in  condition  to  embrace  any  fa- 
vorable opportunities  which  may  present,  in  either  of  the  coun- 
tries which  have  been  mentioned  by  you,  or  in  any  other  what- 
soever. I  hinted  to  you,  on  a  former  occasion,  that  the  market 
of  London  would  not  be  an  undesirable  one ;  and  I  have  some 
reason  of  late  to  suppose  that  it  might  not  be  found  an  impracti- 
cable one. 

I  observe  what  you  say,  in  your  letter  of  the  9th  of  April, 
concerning  the  probable  terms  on  which  loans  might  be  procured 
at  Genoa.  I  should  question,  exceedingly,  the  expediency  of 
opening  a  loan  there,  or  any  where  else,  on  terms  less  advan- 
tageous than  they  can  be  made  in  Holland.  Nevertheless,  it  is 
not  my  intention  to  conclude  you  by  this  observation,  if  you 
judge  that  the  future  effect  of  the  measure  upon  our  loans  in 
Holland  may  justify  a  temporary  sacrifice.  As  to  Genoa,  par- 
ticularly, it  does  not  appear  advisable  to  go  far,  unless  on  terms 
more  advantageous  than  in  Holland ;  because,  for  want  of  direct 
intercourse,  remittances  to  pay  the  interest  must  be  circuitous, 
and  probably  both  inconvenient  and  comparatively  disadvan- 
tageous. 

In  respect  to  France,  the  case  is  very  different.  Equal  terms 
there  would  appear  eligible,  if  not  preferable.  But  there  is 
room  to  expect,  from  the  progress  of  things  in  that  scene,  even 
better  terms.  To  guard  the  lenders  against  the  consequences  of 
depreciation,  the  stipulations  to  pay  in  specie  may  be  as  precise 
as  possible.  There  can  be  no  objection  to  making  the  bonds, 
which  should  be  given  for  the  sums  lent,  receivable  in  payment 
for  lands,  at  the  price  or  prices  which  shall  be  fixed  by  law,  in 
other  cases. 

I  send  you,  herewith,  an  official  statement  by  the  proper 
officer,  certified  under  the  seal  of  the  treasury,  of  the  product  of 
the  old  duties  for  a  period  of  one  year,  ending  the  30th  of  Sep- 
tember last.  This,  I  presume,  will  be  deemed  sufficiently  au- 
thentic. The  productiveness  of  the  new  duties  is,  as  yet,  only 
partially  ascertained;  but  there  is  every  appearance  that  they 


170  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  34. 

will  fully  answer  expectation.  The  product  at  the  port  of  Phila- 
delphia, for  a  single  quarter,  including  the  months  of  April*, 
May,  and  June,  exceeds  three  hundred  and  thirty  thousand  dol- 
lars ;  which,  if  you  compare  with  the  product  of  an  entire  year 
of  the  former  duties,  as  exhibited  in  the  statement  above  men- 
tioned, will  give  you  an  idea  of  the  very  considerable  increase 
which  has  taken  place.  All  this,  too,  is  independent  of  an  in- 
terior duty  on  ardent  spirits,  which,  in  its  progress,  must  afford 
an  important  accession  of  revenue. 

You  intimate  the  propriety  of  a  plurality  of  persons  to  exe- 
cute a  trust  such  as  that  now  reposed  in  you.  This,  however, 
does  not  appear  necessary ;  and  it  is  confided  that  you  will 
cheerfully  execute  it  alone.  Of  your  prudence  and  judgment 
all  are  satisfied. 

With  great  consideration  and  esteem,  &c. 

Postscript,  Aug.  2,  1791. — "When  I  speak  of  equal  terms  in 
France,  it  ought  to  be  understood  in  tliis  sense :  Provided  they 
are  such  as  to  realize  the  existing  benefit  of  exchange  between 
Holland  and  France. 


HAMILTON   TO   JEFFERSON. 

August  26th;  1791. 
Mr.  Hamilton  presents  his  respects  to  the  Secretary  of  State, 
and  transmits  drafts  of  the  powers  to  the  commissioners  and  to 
Mr.  Short,  to  possess  the  Secretary  of  State  fully  of  the  nature  of 
the  powers  and  course  of  the  transactions  in  both  cases. 


HAMILTON   TO   SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  September  2d.  1791. 

Sir: 

Since  my  last  to  you,  of  the  first  of  August,  I  have  received 
your  several  letters  of  the  3d,  5th,  10th,  and  19th  of  June. 


JEt.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  171 

Most  of  the  points  mentioned  in  those  letters  will  find  suf- 
ficient answers  in  my  several  communications  of  the  9th  and 
24th  of  May,  June  25th  and  30th,  and  the  1st  of  August ;  all  of 
which  having  gone,  by  duplicates  at  least,  and  some  by  tripli- 
cates, I  take  it  for  granted  have  gotten  or  will  get  safe  to 
hand. 

Previous  to  saying  any  thing  further,  by  way  of  answer,  it  is 
proper  to  inform  you  of  a  circumstance  which  has  recently  taken 
place  here.  Mr.  Tern  ant,  shortly  after  his  arrival,  made  a  repre- 
sentation against  the  payment  of  the  moneys  due  to  France  in 
its  depreciated  paper  or  assignats.  You  will  readily  conclude 
that  the  answer  to  such  a  representation  could  only  be,  that  (it) 
teas  not  the  intention  of  the  United  States  to  take  advantage  of  the 
circumstance  of  depreciation,  and  that  an  equitable  allowance 
would  be  made  for  that  circumstance,  in  the  final  adjustment  of 
the  payments  which  shall  have  been  made. 

It  therefore  becomes  important  to  distinguish  mere  deprecia- 
tion from  rate  of  exchange.  To  illustrate  my  meaning :  I  observe 
that  you  state  in  your  letter  of  the  3d  of  June,  the  exchange  be- 
tween Amsterdam  and  Paris  is  upwards  of  twenty  per  cent,  (say 
20)  in  favor  of  the  former.  You  also  state  the  rate  of  the  de- 
preciation of  assignats  at  Paris,  or,  in  other  words,  the  difference 
between  equal  sums  in  specie  and  assignats,  at  10  per  cent.  Here, 
then,  the  rate  of  exchange,  exclusive  of  depreciation,  was  10  per 
cent,  above  par  in  favor  of  Amsterdam. 

Two  modes  of  adj  listing  this  matter  occur :  one,  to  note  at 
each  period  of  payment  the  rate  of  exchange  and  the  rate  of  de- 
preciation, and  to  pay  the  money,  if  desired,  in  Holland,  at  a 
rate  of  exchange  corresponding  with  the  difference ;  the  other, 
to  sell  bills  on  Amsterdam  for  specie,  and  pay  the  proceeds  into 
the  French  treasury. 

As  it  may  hereafter  be  questioned  whether  the  rate  of  depre- 
ciation can  be  distinguished  from  the  rate  of  exchange,  it  will  be 
well  to  endeavor  to  put  this  point  out  of  doubt :  if  circumstances 
permit  the  sale  of  bills  at  Paris,  in  specie,  at  a  rate  of  exchange 
which  is  nearly  a  mean  between  the  nominal  or  declared  rate  of 
exchange  and  the  actual  rate  of  depreciation  (which  on  the  data 


1T2  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  34. 

noticed  above  ought  to  be  10  per  cent.),  this  would  afford  an  in- 
contestable criterion.  For  Paris  being  the  stipulated  place  of 
payment,  there  could  be  no  colorable  claim  upon  us  to  make 
payments  at  Amsterdam,  when  we  could  make  them  in  gold  or 
silver  at  Paris  at  10  or  any  other  rate  per  cent,  (which  might 
correspond  with  the  above  mentioned  mean)  less. 

The  management  of  this  point  will  require  delicacy.  It  is 
probable  that  the  French  ministry  will  not  choose  to  mark  for- 
mally a  rate  of  depreciation.  And  it  is  not  wished  to  create  any 
embarrassment  on  the  point.  It  is  hoped  that  you  will  be  able 
so  to  conduct  the  thing  as  to  conciliate  a  due  regard  to  equity 
with  the  interest  of  the  United  States,  and  the  scruples  which 
the  conjuncture  may  impose  on  the  French  ministry. 

If  the  sale  of  bills  for  specie  will  afford  the  equitable  line  of 
demarcation,  it  would  seem  the  simplest  operation  for  the  French 
administration  to  purchase  your  bills  on  our  bankers  at  Amster- 
dam at  the  market  specie  rate  of  exchange ;  in  case,  as  I  under- 
stand to  be  the  fact,  they  wish  to  remit  to  Holland. 

I  observe  the  expectation  of  our  bankers  of  a  reduction  of 
the  rate  of  interest  on  the  loans  of  this  country,  and  your  reasons 
for  doubting  that  their  expectations  will  be  realized.  Those 
reasons  have  great  weight.  Yet  the  accounts  from  this  quarter 
of  the  progressive  rise  of  our  stock,  and  the  rapid  filling  of  the 
national  bank,  must  ere  this  have  given  a  strong  impulse  to  what- 
ever causes  might  exist  favorable  to  a  reduction  of  interest.  And 
without  expecting  sanguinely,  I  do  not  despair  of  the  event  hav- 
ing happened,  or  speedily  happening. 

An  increased  premium,  though  not  desirable,  ought  not,  as 
you  intimate,  to  be  an  obstacle,  if  within  limits  that  on  calcula- 
tion show  that  more  is  gained  in  the  reduction  of  interest  than 
lost  in  the  increase  of  premium.  And  it  is  probable  enough  that 
an  augmentation  of  benefit  to  the  undertakers  may  induce  them 
to  exert  efficaciously  their  influence  with  the  money  lenders  to 
be  content  with  a  rate  of  interest  which  will  considerably  over- 
balance to  the  United  States  the  additional  compensation  given 
to  them.  The  observations  in  my  first  instructions,  which  have 
relation  to  this  point,  had  an  eye  chiefly  to  the  sacrifices  which 


JIt.34]  CABINET    PAPERS.  173 

in  the  loan  of  two  millions  of  florins  at  4  per  cent,  were  made  to 
a  mere  appearance  of  low  interest ;  and  which,  if  I  remember 
right,  in  fact  gave  to  the  lenders  about  7  per  cent.  A  small  ad- 
ditional premium,  which  would  be  an  object  to  agents  or  under- 
takers, would  be  easily  overbalanced  by  a  slight  diminution  of 
the  rate  of  interest. 

The  course  marked  out  in  my  letter  of  the  24th  of  May  will 
obviate  in  future  any  injurious  delay  in  the  employment  of  the 
sums  borrowed,  if,  as  I  have  no  doubt  will  be  the  case,  I  am  ac- 
curately advised  of  the  time  of  commencing  each  loan  and  the 
prospects  concerning  it,  in  order  that  I  may  regulate  the  drafts  for 
the  parts  which  are  intended  to  be  applied  here. 

The  probability  of  an  extension  of  loans  abroad  for  the  pur- 
chase of  public  debt  beyond  the  limit  of  two  millions  of  dollars, 
depends  on  that  of  a  fall  of  interest.  When  I  inform  you  that 
I  expect  in  future  to  be  able  to  borrow  in  the  United  States  at 
5  per  cent.,  you  will  perceive  that  it  cannot  long  be  their  interest 
to  borrow  at  5  in  Europe. 

As  you  have  now  a  latitude  of  discretion  coextensive  with 
the  whole  amount  of  our  foreign  debt,  and  indications  of  my 
opinions  on  various  points,  I  forbear  to  multiply  details  which 
perhaps  would  only  serve  to  perplex.  I  shall  therefore  content 
myself  with  barely  adding,  that  in  regard  to  places  of  payment 
for  moneys  borrowed,  my  speculations  on  the  probable  course  of 
exchange,  resulting  from  future  relations  of  commerce,  would 
lead  me  to  prefer,  on  equal  terms,  first,  Paris,  and  next,  Amster- 
dam. Neither  any  of  the  Italian  States,  nor  the  Austrian  Neth- 
erlands, nor  London,  appears  to  me  equally  eligible.  But  too 
much  stress  ought  not  to  be  laid  on  such  a  preference,  the  grounds 
of  it  being  far  from  certain. 

The  affair  of  Shiveizer,  Jeanneret  &  Co.  is  more  and  more  out 
of  the  question.  Mr.  Ternant  discountenances  instead  of  pro- 
moting it.  And  the  President  has  sanctioned  the  disapprobation 
of  the  measure. 

The  postscript  to  my  letter  of  the  2d  of  August  is  to  be  con- 
strued with  a  reference  to  what  is  said  in  this  letter  concerning 
the  adjustment  of  the  payments  to  France. 


174  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

I  thank  yon  for  the  different  documents  yon  have  forwarded 
me ;  and  assnre  jou.  of  the  increasing  consideration  and  esteem 
with  which  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 

A  ratification  of  the  contract  for  the  loan  by  the  President 
has  been  sent  to  Messrs.  Willinks  &  Yan  Staphorsts  by  a  direct 
opportunity,  which  has  been  deemed  safer  than  a  circuitous  one 
through  you. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  Sept.  16,  1791. 

Sir  : 

I  have  the  honor  to  inclose  the  copy  of  a  letter  from  Mr. 
Brown,  of  Kentucky,  to  Gen.  Irvine,  giving  an  account  of  some 
interesting  particulars  in  the  western  country.  Part  of  the  let- 
ter, I  have  understood,  has  been  forwarded  to  you,  but  not  the 
whole.  Gen.  Irvine  is  of  opinion  that  the  waters  will.be  still  so 
far  practicable  as  to  permit  the  progress  of  the  troops  under  Gen. 
Bntler,  by  the  expedient  of  dragging  the  boats  in  the  shallowest 
places. 

With  perfect  respect,  &c. 


TERNANT  TO  HAMILTON. 

Philadelphia,  Sept.  21,  1791. 

Sir: 

The  distressed  and  very  alarming  situation  in  which  the 
French  colony  of  Hispaniola  is  now  reduced,  by  an  insurrection 
of  the  negroes,  which  threatens  the  most  fatal  consequences,  puts 
me  under  the  necessity  of  causing  large  supplies  of  provisions  to 


Mr.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  175 

be  immediately  forwarded  to  that  island.  The  means  I  can  com- 
mand at  present  being  insufficient  for  the  purpose,  I  have  to  re- 
quest you  will  enable  me,  if  possible,  to  draw  on  your  federal 
treasury,  to  an  amount  not  exceeding  forty  thousand  dollars,  to 
be  accounted  for  in  any  future  reimbursement  of  the  United 
States  to  France. 

I  hope  the  extreme  urgency  of  the  case,  and  the  interest  I 
am  convinced  you  take  in  the  welfare  of  my  nation,  will  induce 
you  to  grant  this  request,  which  I  am  going  to  lay  immediately 
before  the  President  of  the  United  States. 
I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  Sep.  22,  1791. 

Sir: 

I  have  received  a  letter  from  the  Minister  of  France,  of  which 
the  inclosed  is  a  copy.  Having  full  authority  from  you  in  rela- 
tion to  payments  to  France,  and  there  being  funds  out  of  which 
that  which  will  constitute  the  succor  requested  may  with  pro- 
priety be  made ;  and  being  fully  persuaded  that  in  so  urgent 
and  calamitous  a  case,  you  will  be  pleased  with  a  ready  acquies- 
cence in  what  is  desired,  I  have  not  hesitated  to  answer  the 
Minister  that  the  sum  he  asks  is  at  his  command. 

With  the  most  perfect  respect  and  truest  attachment,  &c. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Mount  Vernon,  Sept.  24,  1791. 


Sir: 

I  have  received  your  letter  of  the  22d  instant,  inclosing  a 
copy  of  one  from  the  French  Minister.     I  have  to  inform  you 


176  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

that  your  proceedings  with,  respect  to  the  request  of  the  Minister 
of  France,  meet  my  entire  approbation. 


HAMILTON  TO  WILLIAM  SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  October  3,  1791. 

Sir: 

I  acknowledge  the  receipt  of  your  letters  of  the  26th  and 
27th  of  July. 

The  fall  which  you  announce  in  the  price  of  the  effects  of  the 
United  States  was  certainly  artificial.  The  cause  ere  this  will 
have  been  better  ascertained  to  you.  'Tis  open  to  various  con- 
jecture. 

I  have  thought  it  advisable  to  drop  a  line  to  our  bankers  in 
Holland,  (of  which  a  copy  is  inclosed,)  merely  to  mark  my  atten- 
tion to  the  circumstance. 

It  will  deserve  to  be  further  considered  whether  it  be  expe- 
dient to  press  any  more  the  reduction  of  charges.  Perhaps  the 
principal  effort  ought  hereafter  to  be  towards  a  reduction  of  the 
rate  of  interest.  But  you,  who  best  know  the  ground,  can  best 
judge. 

I  shall  be  anxious  to  know  the  issue  of  your  experiment  at 
Antwerp. 

I  have  the  honor  to  remain  with  great  consideration  and 
respect,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  MESSRS.  WILLINKS,  VAN  STAPHORSTS  AND  HUBBARD, 

AMSTERDAM. 

Treasury  Department,  October  3,  1791. 

Gentlemen  : 

I  have  learnt  with  some  surprise,  through  Mr.  Short,  that  the 
price  of  the  effects  of  the  United  States  had  undergone  a  sudden 
depression  in  the  market  of  Amsterdam. 


jEt.34.]  cabinet   papers.  177 

This  is  so  different  from  the  tenor  of  the  hopes  I  had  built 
upon  those  expressed  by  you,  and  so  contrary  to  all  the  calcula- 
tions I  can  form  on  the  natural  course  of  the  thing,  that  I  cannot 
but  be  curious  for  a  particular  development  of  its  cause. 

It  will,  therefore,  be  satisfactory  to  me  to  receive  from  you, 
as  early  as  may  be,  a  full  explanation  of  the  circumstances  which 
shall  appear  to  you  to  have  occasioned  so  unexpected  a  turn  of 
the  thing. 

With  great  consideration,  I  remain,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  Oct.  6,  1791. 

Sir: 

The  packet  has  brought  me  a  letter  of  the  2d  of  August  from 
Mr.  Church,  which  contains  the  following  paragraph : 

"  I  fear  there  is  no  disposition  at  present  in  our  Ministers  to 
treat  properly  with  America.  Lord  Hawkesbury  is  lately  admit- 
ted into  the  Cabinet,  and  his  prejudices  are  strong  against  you, 
and  the  enthusiasm  for  maintaining  the  navigation  act  is  such, 
that  there  is  not  a  shadow  of  probability  they  will  in  any  shape 
relax.  I  have  heard  nothing  since  my  last  of  Mr.  Hammond's 
appointment  to  America,  but  I  believe  he  is  certainly  to  be  sent 
out." 

"With  the  most  respectful  attachment,  &c. 


SHORT  TO  HAMILTON. 

Paris,  Oct.  10,  1791. 

Sir: 

*  *  *  *  #  Since  the  departure  of  Mr.  Donald  from  London, 

his  partner  has  continued  the  correspondence  with  me  on  the 
d  12 


178  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

subject  of  a  loan  there  for  the  United  States.  The  final  result  of 
his  researches  is  less  favorable,  for  the  present  moment,  than  Mr. 
Donald  had  given  reason  to  hope.  On  more  precise  inquiry,  he 
found  that  no  house  of  solidity  would  undertake  to  guarantee  a 
loan  for  any  commission,  and  that  no  loan  could  be  opened  pub- 
licly for  a  foreign  power.  Still  he  was  well  convinced  that  the 
United  States  might  privately  obtain  a  loan  in  London,  provided 
interest  was  at  five  per  cent.,  and  that  it  was  not  brought  on  until 
the  next  spring.  As  I  did  not  understand  precisely  what  was  meant 
by  the  term  privately,  and  of  course  could  not  judge  whether  the 
dignity  of  the  United  States  would  admit  of  their  making  use  of 
that  mode,  I  have  written  to  ask  an  explanation  of  it  as  an  indis- 
pensable preliminary,  and  have  not  yet  received  an  answer.  *  *  * 
With  respect  to  Antwerp,  I  have  hitherto  informed  you  how 
the  business  stood  there.  Since  my  last,  I  have,  at  Mr.  Morris's 
request,  authorized  the  opening  a  loan  there,  provided  it  can 
be  effected  at  four  and  a-half  per  cent,  interest  and  five  per  cent, 
commission.  As  he  observed  it  would  be  necessary  in  that  case 
for  the  United  States  not  to  open  loans  in  Holland  at  an  higher 
rate  of  interest,  I  have  agreed  that  that  shall  not  be  done  before 
the  first  of  January  next,  provided  three  millions  of  florins  can 
be  procured  at  Antwerp  at  that  rate,  and  at  that  time.  I  had  no 
difficulty  in  taking  this  engagement,  as  it  is  consenting  only  to 
what  the  interest  of  the  United  States  would  dictate.  No  answer 
has  as  yet  been  received  to  this  letter,  written  only  a  few  days 
ago.  I  must  own,  however,  that  I  am  not  very  sanguine  in  the 
expectation  of  any  thing  being  done  there  in  consequence  of  it. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Mount  Vernon,  Oct.  14,  1791. 

Dear  Sir  : 

When  I  addressed  a  private  letter  to  you  a  few  days  ago, 
I  had  no   more  idea  that  Monday,  the  24th  instant,  was  the 


jEt.  34.]  CABINET     PAPERS.  179 

day  appointed  for  the  meeting  of  Congress,  than  I  had  of  its  be- 
ing doomsday ;  until  it  was  mentioned  to  me  in  a  letter  which  I 
have  just  received  from  Mr.  Lear,  who  was  under  the  like  mis" 
take.  It  had  got  so  fixed  in  my  mind  that  the  last  Monday  was 
the  time,  that  I  never  consulted  the  law,  or  made  inquiries 
about  it ;  and  meant  to  move  leisurely  on,  in  the  course  of  next 
week,  for  Philadelphia ;  and  for  that  purpose  had  directed  Page 
to  send  off  his  stage-coach  so  as  to  be  at  Georgetown  on  Tuesday, 
the  18th.  This  discovery,  however,  will  oblige  me,  as  soon  as 
the  means  are  in  my  power,  to  accelerate  my  journey ;  and  it 
induces  me,  at  the  same  time,  to  urge  you  more  earnestly  to  be 
prepared,  against  my  arrival,  with  what  my  last  requested. 

How  far,  in  addition  to  the  several  matters  mentioned  in  that 
letter,  would  there  be  propriety,  do  you  think,  in  suggesting  the 
policy  of  encouraging  the  growth  of  cotton  and  hemp,  in  such 
parts  of  the  United  States  as  are  adapted  to  the  culture  of  them  ? 
The  advantages,  which  would  result  to  this  country  from  the 
encouragement  of  these  articles  for  home  manufacture,  I  have 
no  doubt  of;  but  how  far  bounties  on  them  come  within  the 
powers  of  the  general  government,  or  it  might  Comport  with  the 
temper  of  the  times  to  expend  money  for  such  purposes,  is  neces- 
sary to  be  considered.  Without  a  bounty,  I  know  of  no  means 
by  which  they  can  be  effectually  encouraged.  The  establishment 
of  arsenals  in  convenient  and  proper  places  is,  in  my  opinion,  a 
measure  of  high  national  importance,  meriting  the  serious  atten- 
tion of  Congress ;  and  is  one  of  those  measures  which  ought  to 
be  brought  to  their  view. 

Yesterday  I  received  the  resignation  of  John  Spotswood 
Moore,  surveyor  of  the  port  of  West  Point,  in  this  State.  I 
mention  it  now,  that,  if  opportunities  should  be  afforded,  you 
may  make  the  necessary  inquiries  into  the  fitness  of  a  successor 
to  him. 


180  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  34. 


WASHINGTON  TO   HAMILTON. 

Georgetown,  Oct.  17,  1791. 

My  Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  thus  far  on  my  way  to  Philadelphia,  and  if  the  disagree- 
ableness  of  the  weather  (for  it  is  now  raining)  does  not  prevent 
it,  shall  proceed  to  Bladensburg  at  least  to-night ;  but,  be  my 
dispatch  what  it  probably  may,  the  mail  which  leaves  this  to- 
morrow will  arrive  in  Philadelphia  before  me. 

This  being  the  case,  and  time  pressing,  I  forward  the  inclosed 
suggestions  of  Mr.  Jefferson  and  Mr.  Madison,  who  are  both  at 
this  place,  and  from  whom  I  requested  information  of  the  several 
matters  that  had  occurred  to  them  proper  for  communication. 


HAMILTON  TO  SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  November  1st,  1791. 

Sir: 

I  have  barely  time,  by  this  opportunity,  to  inform  you,  that 
I  have  directed  the  treasurer  to  draw  for  one  million  of  florins, 
on  account  of  the  last  loan  of  six  millions,  and  towards  the  close 
of  the  present  month  shall  direct  him  to  draw  for  another  mil- 
lion. I  calculate  that  the  whole  amount  of  the  loan  will  have 
been  received  before  the  second  set  of  drafts  are  presented. 

I  remain,  with  great  consideration  and  regard,  &c. 


SHORT  TO  HAMILTON. 

Paris,  November  22d,  1791. 

Sir: 

*  *****  *  Since  my  last,  I  have  received  your  two  let- 
ters of  September  2d  and  October  3d.     As  it  is  the  intention  of 


jEt.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  181 

the  United  States  to  make  up  the  depreciation,  I  am  glad  to 
have  been  informed  of  it  thus  early.  I  communicated  it  to  the 
commissaries  of  the  treasury,  who  intended,  as  they  told  me, 
making  objections  to  such  payments  in  future.  This  astonished 
me  the  more,  as  it  would  be  objecting  to  receive  from  a  debtor 
what  they  pay,  to  a  considerably  greater  amount,  annually,  to 
their  creditors.  It  is  well  to  have  anticipated  their  reclamations, 
since  the  intention  of  the  United  States  is  such.  I  am  persuaded 
the  ministry  would  have  been  too  prudent  to  have  rendered 
public  such  reclamations,  and  should  suppose  it  highly  probable 
Ternant  had  acted  of  himself.  The  commissaries  of  the  treasury 
were  highly  pleased  with  my  communication.  I  desired  they 
would  fix  some  basis  which  should  be  equally  just  for  both 
parties.  It  was  agreed  between  us,  that  it  would  be  to  ascertain 
what  would  have  been  the  rate  of  exchange  between  Paris  and 
Amsterdam  if  gold  and  silver  had  continued  to  circulate  in 
France.  They  said  they  would  consider  of  this  subject,  but 
nothing  has  been  as  yet  proposed.  *        *        *        *        * 

It  gave  me  much  pleasure  to  find,  by  your  last  letter,  that 
you  had  noticed  to  the  bankers  at  Amsterdam  the  momentary 
fall  in  our  stock  there.  The  reduction  in  the  rate  of  interest 
will,  of  course,  as  it  has  hitherto  been,  be  in  future  the  object  of 
our  efforts,  agreeably  to  your  desire  ;  and  I  am  exceedingly 
happy  to  have  been  able  to  offer  you  such  favorable  hopes  re- 
specting it,  being  ever  desirous  to  convince  you  of  my  zeal,  and 
give  you  assurances  of  the  sentiments  with  which  I  have  the 
honor  to  be,  &c. 


HAMILTON   TO   SHORT. 

Treasury  Department.  November  30th,  1791. 

Sir: 

Your  letters  of  the  23d  and  31st  of  August  and  3d  of  Sep- 
tember remain  unacknowledged.  Mine  to  you,  of  the  1st  of 
August,  2d  September,  and  3d  of  October,  will  much  abridge 
what  is  necessary  to  be  said  at  this  time. 


182  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.34, 

The  prices  of  the  public  debt  here  rendering  it  questionable 
whether  it  be  any  longer  the  interest  of  the  United  States  to 
prosecute  the  idea  of  purchases  with  moneys  borrowed  at  5  per 
cent.,  and  there  being  reasons  of  the  moment  against  beginning 
the  redemption  of  the  six  per  cents.,  I  have  concluded  to  forbear 
drawing  for  the  second  million  of  guilders  mentioned  in  my  let- 
ter of  the  1st  instant.  Except,  therefore,  one  million  of  the  last 
six  which  has  been  drawn  for,  the  entire  loan  is  to  be  applied  to 
European  purposes. 

In  directing  this  application,  you  will  bear  in  mind  that  there 
will  be  payments  to  be  made  on  account  of  the  Dutch  loans,  for 
which  the  proper  reservations  are  to  be  made. 

In  your  letter  of  the  23d  of  August,  you  mention  that  "  in 
June  next,  the  first  reimbursement  is  to  take  place  on  the  loans 
made  at  Amsterdam,"  and  the  commissioners,  in  some  of  their 
letters,  speak  of  the  time  of  that  reimbursement  as  approaching. 

Hence  I  conclude  that  some  mistake  has  arisen,  as  by  the 
contracts  in  the  treasury  it  appears  that  the  first  payment  of 
principle  of  the  first  Dutch  loan,  namely,  that  of  5,000,000  of 
florins,  contracted  the  17th  of  June,  1782,  is  not  to  take  place 
till  the  1st  of  June,  1793. 

It  will  be  proper  to  have  an  explanation  with  the  commis- 
sioners on  this  point,  lest  an  error  should  have  crept  into  the 
copies  of  the  contract  sent  to  the  treasury;  which,  however,, 
from  the  whole  circumstance,  appears  scarcely  possible. 

All  payments  for  interest  or  otherwise,  which  shall  be  neces- 
sary to  be  made  upon  the  Dutch  loans  during  the  year  1792,  are 
intended  to  be  made  out  of  the  moneys  borrowed  abroad,  which 
will  leave  in  the  treasury  here  the  sums  that  ought  to  be  remit- 
ted for  interest,  as  a  part  of  the  two  millions  of  dollars  authorized 
to  be  borrowed  by  the  act  making  provision  for  the  reduction  of 
the  public  debt. 

After  the  year  1792,  remittances  for  interest  will  go  from 
hence.  But  it  is  probable  that,  for  some  time  to  come,  we  shall 
have  to  depend  on  loans  abroad  for  the  reimbursement  of  the  in- 
stalments of  principal  which  may  be  falling  due. 

I  observe  the  idea  that  a  guarantee  would  be  necessary,  m 


jEt.  34.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  183 

the  case  of  a  loan  made  in  England.  This  circumstance  I  was  not 
apprised  of.     It  appears  to  me  inadmissible. 

I  also  observe  what  has  passed  concerning  the  charges  on  the 
last  loan.  You  will  perceive  from  my  letters  above  referred 
to,  the  light  in  which  this  subject  of  charges  has  presented  itself 
to  my  view. 

With  the  truest  consideration  and  esteem,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  THOMAS  MIFFLIN,  GOVERNOR  OF   PENNSYLVANIA. 

Treasury  Department,  Dec.  21,  1791. 

Sir: 

It  appearing  to  me  that  the  attention  of  the  Legislature  of 
Pennsylvania  may  be  necessary  to  the  removal  of  an  inconveni- 
ence under  which  the  subscribers  of  the  debt  of  that  State  now 
lie,  I  do  myself  the  honor  to  make  the  requisite  communication 
to  your  excellency. 

The  18th  section  of  the  Act  making  provision  for  the  debt 
of  the  United  States,  suspends  the  payment  of  interest  in  respect 
to  the  debt  of  any  State  which  shall  have  issued  its  own  certifi- 
cates in  exchange  for  those  of  the  United  States,  until  it  shall  be 
satisfactorily  made  to  appear  that  the  certificates  issued  for  that 
purpose  by  such  State  had  been  re-exchanged  or  redeemed,  or  until 
those  which  shall  not  have  been  exchanged  or  redeemed  shall  be 
surrendered  to  the  United  States. 

It  is  understood  that  the  measure  contemplated  in  this  section 
was  adopted  by  the  State  of  Pennsylvania ;  that  is,  that  a  sum 
of  State  certificates  was  issued  in  exchange  for  an  equal  sum  of 
certificates  of  the  federal  debt,  and  that  although  a  part  of  those 
State  certificates  has  been  redeemed,  others  to  a  considerable 
amount  have  not  been  re-exchanged  or  redeemed.  It  will  con- 
duce as  well  to  the  order  of  the  finances  as  to  the  convenience 
of  the  public  creditors,  the  payment  of  interest  to  whom  must 
otherwise  be  suspended,  if  measures  can  be  taken  by  the  govern- 


184  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  34. 

meiit  of  Pennsylvania  to  make  the  balance  unredeemed  and  un- 
exchanged to  appear,  and  if  they  should  direct  the  surrender  of 
the  amount  of  such  balance  in  certificates  of  federal  debt  in  their 
old  form.  Should  the  surrender  of  them  in  that  form  be  imprac- 
ticable, from  the  circumstance  of  the  subscription  of  federal 
debt,  which  was  directed  by  the  Legislature,  an  equal  sum  of  six 
per  cent,  deferred,  and  three  per  cent,  stock,  in  such  proportion 
as  the  balance  or  deficiency  would  produce  on  subscription,  may 
be  paid  in  lieu  of  the  certificates,  in  their  old  form.  This  will 
be  at  the  election  of  the  State,  and  can  be  effected  by  no  circum- 
stance but  their  own  convenience,  as  there  can  be  no  pecuniary 
advantage  or  disadvantage  in  either  mode. 


HEADS  OF  TOPICS  FOR  WASHINGTON'S  SPEECH  OF  DEC.  25,  1791. 

By  Hamilton. 

I.  Cross  posts ;  especially  to  some  of  the  important  points  in 
western  part  of  the  Union. 

II.  Recommendation  to  enable  Executive  to  preserve  peace 
with  Indians,  by  making  it  their  interest. 

III.  Something  complimentary  to  the  militia. 

IV.  Completion  of  subscriptions  to  Bank. 

1.  Consuls. 

2.  Estimate  of  lands. 

3.  Forty  thousand  applications. 

4.  Act  of  S.  and  1ST.  Car.     Prisons. 

5.  Ditto,  State  of  New  Hampshire.     Light-house. 

6.  Schools. 

7.  Tour  south.     Observations. 

8.  Communication  from  Governor  of  Pennsylvania. 

9.  Amendments. 

10.  Insurrection  in  Hispaniola. 

11.  Appointments  to  vacancies. 
Surplus  of  revenue  to  debts. 


,Et.35.]  cabinet    papers.  185 


HAMILTON  TO  JEFFERSON. 

January  1,  1792. 

Mr.  Hamilton  presents  his  compliments  to  Mr.  Jefferson.  Be- 
ing engaged  in  making  a  comparative  statement  of  the  trade  be- 
tween the  United  States  and  France,  and  between  the  United 
States  and  Great  Britain,  and  being  desirous  of  rendering  it  as 
candid  as  possible,  Mr.  H.  will  be  obliged  to  Mr.  Jefferson  to 
point  out  to  him  the  instances  in  which  the  regulations  of  France 
have  made  discriminations  in  favor  of  the  United  States  as  com- 
pared with  other  foreign  powers.  Those  of  Great  Britain  appear 
by  its  statutes,  which  are  in  the  hands  of  Mr.  EL,  but  he  is  not 
possessed  of  the  general  commercial  regulations  of  France. 

Mr.  H.  also  wishes  to  be  informed  whether  the  arret  of  the 
9th  of  May,  1789,  mentioned  by  Mr.  J.  in  the  notes  to  this  table, 
be  the  same  with  the  ordinance  of  the  Governor-General  of  St. 
Domingo,  which  is  at  the  end  of  the  collection  of  arrets  which 
Mr.  J.  was  so  obliging  as  to  lend  to  Mr.  EL,  which  is  of  that  date* 


HAMILTON   TO   SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  Jan.  28.  1792. 

Sir: 

You  will  find  herewith  duplicate  of  my  letter  of  the  30th  of 
November  last ;  since  which  I  am  without  any  of  your  favors. 

It  is  with  sincere  pleasure  I  embrace  the  opportunity  of  con- 
gratulating you  on  your  appointment  to  the  Hague  as  minister 
resident.  This  will  afford  you  a  better  opportunity  of  watching 
and  appreciating  the  course  of  circumstances.  You  will  conse- 
quently be  obliged  less  to  rely  on  others ;  and  I  trust,  by  seizing 
favorable  moments,  you  will  be  able  to  reduce  the  rate  of  interest 
on  such  future  loans  as  may  be  found  necessary. 

A  bill  has  lately  been  drawn  upon  our  commissioners,  in 


186  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

favor  of  Mr.  Jefferson,  for  95,947|  guilders,  for  the  use  of  the 
foreign  department. 

I  send  you  herewith  copies  of  a  Eeport  of  mine  to  the  House 
of  Eepresentatives  on  the  23d  instant,  and  of  certain  statements 
which  accompanied  the  same,  which  will  give  you  a  view  of  the 
present  state  of  revenue  and  expenditure. 

Our  frontier  affairs,  by  occasioning  an  increase  of  the  latter, 
will  call  for  an  increase  of  the  former. 


HAMILTON  TO  SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  Feb.  14,  1792. 

Sir: 

I  have  received  your  several  favors  of  Sept.  23d,  Oct.  10th, 
and  Dec.  1st. 

It  appears  to  me  probable  that  your  movement  towards  Ant- 
werp produced  the  appearance  of  a  four  per  cent,  loan,  and  I 
hope  from  it  in  the  result  good  effects. 

Inclosed  you  will  find  a  copy  of  a  letter,  of  the  same  date 
with  this,  to  the  commissioners  in  Holland.  You  will  easily 
comprehend  the  motives  which  directed  the  turn  of  it. 

As  to  the  charges  on  the  six  millions  loan,  though  you  had  a 
right  to  insist  on  the  point  which  you  made  with  the  commis- 
sioners, and  did  right  to  insist  upon  it  till  there  was  a  concession 
of  the  principle,  yet  it  appears,  upon  the  whole,  to  be  more  inter- 
esting to  the  United  States  to  keep  the  commissioners  in  good 
humor,  in  order  to  a  cheerful  co-operation  in  the  more  important 
point  of  a  reduction  of  interest,  than  to  make  so  small  a  saving 
in  charges.  I  have  obtained  the  consent  of  the  President  of  the 
United  States  to  authorize  you  to  allow  on  the  whole  of  the  loan 
of  six  millions  the  same  charges  as  attended  the  preceding  loan. 


JEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  187 

HAMILTON  TO  W.  &  J.  WILLINK  AND  VAN  STAPHORST  &  HUBBARD. 

Treasury  Department,  Feb.  14,  1792. 

Gentlemen  : 

I  am  just  honored  with  your  several  favors  of  Nov.  21st  and 
24th,  and  Dec.  2d. 

I  learn  with  regret  the  disappointment  which  has  attended 
jour  endeavor  to  procure  a  loan  for  the  United  States  at  the 
reduced  rate  of  four  per  cent,  interest.  Your  success  would 
doubtless  have  been  as  interesting  to  the  credit  of  this  country, 
as  it  would  have  been  pleasing  both  to  the  President  of  the 
United  States  and  myself. 

But,  as  I  rely  on  the  mutual  good  disposition  both  of  Mr, 
Short  and  yourselves,  I  shall  confide  that  any  circumstances 
which  may  have  taken  place,  not  exactly  corresponding  with 
your  views  of  the  public  interest,  will  not  interfere  with  a  cordial 
co-operation  in  the  prosecution  of  it  hereafter ;  and  as  events  will 
continue  to  second  your  efforts,  I  shall  allow  myself  to  hope  that 
the  expectation  of  reducing  the  rate  of  interest  on  American 
loans  to  four  per  cent,  will  ere  long  be  realized,  notwithstanding 
the  momentary  impediment  which  has  happened. 

The  price  of  public  funds  here  will  satisfy  you  that  it  is  ceas- 
ing to  be  the  interest  of  the  United  States  to  borrow  abroad  at  a 
higher  rate  of  interest  than  four  per  cent. 

If  you  are  able  to  bring  the  matter  to  that  standard,  it  will 
effectually  obviate  the  possibility  of  any  future  recourse  else- 
where, and  will  secure  to  all  parties  the  important  advantage  of 
permanently  concentrating  the  loans  of  the  United  States  in  one 
great  money  market,  upon  terms  which  will  conciliate  in  a  satis- 
factory degree  all  interests,  public  and  private. 


188  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  35. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  March  1,  1792. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  has  the  honor  to  submit  to  the 
President  of  the  United  States  the  draft  of  a  Report  on  the  sub- 
ject of  the  Act  concerning  distilled  spirits.  There  are  one  or  two 
blanks  in  the  draft,  to  the  filling  of  which  some  additional  exam- 
ination and  inquiry  are  requisite.  The  suggestions,  however,  to 
which  they  relate  are  true  as  they  stand,  and  the  sense  will  be 
apparent.  The  Secretary  sends  the  draft  before  they  are  filled 
to  save  time.  He  will  wait  upon  the  President  on  Monday  for 
his  commands  respecting  it. 


HAMILTON  TO  SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  March  5th,  1792. 

Sir: 

Since  my  last  of  the  14th  ultimo,  I  have  the  pleasure  of  your 
two  letters  of  the  8th  and  12th  of  November. 

The  reimbursement  of  the  Spanish  debt  will  be  perfectly 
acceptable,  but  there  will  be  matter  for  regret,  if,  before  this 
reaches  you,  the  sum  claimed  by  the  Farmers  General  has  been 
paid  to  them. 

There  is  certainly  a  million  of  livres  in  the  pecuniary  trans- 
actions between  the  United  States  and  France,  acknowledged  as 
a  subsidy,  which  remains  unaccounted  for,  with  some  ground  of 
conjecture  that  it  is  the  same  million  which  constitutes  the  claim 
of  the  Farmers  General.  This  affair,  though  it  has  heretofore 
been  moved,  has  never  received  any  satisfactory  solution.  It  is, 
however,  proper  in  every  view  that  such  a  solution  should  be 
had,  and  the  documents  are  preparing  on  which  to  found  a  regu- 
lar application,  concerning  it,  to  the  French  government.  In  the 
mean  time  the  payment  to  the  Farmers  General,  if  not  made, 
ought  to  be  forborne. 


^Gt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  189 

I  observe  that  you  would  have  shortly  reached  the  point  when, 
by  your  instructions,  you  would  cease  to  be  at  liberty  to  continue 
the  reimbursements  to  France  upon  loans  made  at  four  and  a 
half  per  cent,  exclusive  of  charges.  I  shall  be  glad  to  find  that 
the  accomplishment  of  a  loan  at  four  per  cent,  has  prevented  that 
instruction  proving  an  obstacle  to  further  payments. 

But  if  this  should  not  have  been  the  case,  and  if  the  rate  of 
exchange  shall  have  been  so  fixed  with  France  as  that  it  may 
prove  an  equivalent  for  the  charges  and  the  additional  half  per 
cent.,  you  may  proceed  in  borrowing,  on  the  terms  of  the 
Antwerp  loan,  to  an  extent  sufficient  to  discharge  the  entire  debt 
to  France. 

The  condition  which  is  here  made  is  deemed  necessary  to 
justify  the  executive  in  regard  to  the  construction  of  the  law  and 
public  opinion.  And  when  it  is  considered  that  immense  loss 
was  sustained  in  realizing  here  the  sums  borrowed  abroad  during 
the  war,  in  many  instances  to  the  extent  of  40  per  cent.,  it  can 
not  appear  extraordinary  that  some  attention  is  paid  to  condi- 
tions of  advantageous  reimbursement,  especially  of  the  part 
which  is  not  yet  due. 

It  must  be  proper  to  unite  liberality  towards  France  with  an 
equitable  regard  to  the  interest  of  the  United  States. 


JEFFERSON  TO  HAMILTON. 

March  5th,  1792. 

Thomas  Jefferson  will  be  glad  if  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury 
will  state  the  specific  propositions  he  would  have  made  to  Spain, 
on  the  subject  of  our  fish,  grain,  and  flour,  to  wit,  what  he  would 
ask,  and  what  propose  as  an  equivalent.  The  following  consi- 
derations will  of  course  occur  to  him : 

1.  If  we  quit  the  ground  of  the  most  favored  nation,  as  to  cer- 
tain articles  for  our  convenience,  Spain  may  insist  on  doing  the 
same  for  other  articles  for  her  convenience,  and  I  apprehend  that 


190  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  35. 

our  commissioners  might  soon  be  out  of  their  depth  in  the  details 
of  commerce. 

2.  If  we  grant  favor  to  the  wines,  &c.  of  Spain,  Portugal  and 
France  will  demand  the  same,  and  may  create  the  equivalent,  the 
former  by  laying  duties  on  our  fish  and  grain,  the  latter  by  a 
prohibition  of  oar  whale  oils ;  the  removal  of  which  will  be 
proposed  as  the  equivalent. 


HAMILTON  TO  JEFFERSON. 

March,  1792. 

The  general  tenor  of  the  Report  appears  solid  and  proper. 

The  following  observations,  however,  on   a  hasty  perusal 

occur. 

Page  2.     Is  it  to  put  our  Revolution  upon  the  true  or  the 

best  footing,  to  say  that  the  circumstances  which  obliged  us  to 

discontinue  our  foreign  magistrate,  brought  upon  us  the  war  f     Did 

not  the  war  previously  exist  and  bring  on  the  discontinuance  f 

Was  it  not  rather  the  cause  than  the  effect  ?* 

Is  it  accurate  to  say  that  France  aided  us  in  capturing  the 
yjhole  army  of  the  enemy  ?  Does  this  not  imply  that  there  was 
no  other  enemy-army  in  the  country ;  though  there  were  in  fact 
two  others,  one  in  New- York,  another  in  South  Carolina  ?  This 
last  is  a  mere  criticism  as  to  the  accuracy  of  expression.  The 
sense  is  clear  enough. f 

Page  11.  Are  " naval  victories"  the  essential  mean  of  con- 
quest of  a  water,  as  seems  to  be  implied  ?  Is  not  the  conquest 
of  a  water  an  incident  to  that  of  territory  ? %    If  this  idea  is  not 

*  These  notes  are  in  the  hand  of  Jefferson.  "  The  Report  is  amended  in  conformity 
with  this  observation. 

t  "The  capture  of  the  army  struck  out. 

X  "  No  conquest  of  the  territory  was  made,  to  wit,  of  the  island  of  New-Orleans 
on  the  one  side,  or  Louisiana  on  the  other,  as  both  had  belonged  to  Spain  before 
the  war.  Therefore  no  change  in  the  right  to  the  water  as  incident  to  the  territory. 
This  circumstance,  however,  is  inserted  in  the  Report  to  make  the  reasoning 
the  clearer." 


Mr.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  191 

sound,  that  combined  with  it  is, — namely,  that  in  no  event  could 
Spain  be  considered  as  having  conquered  the  river  against  the 
United  States,  with  whom  she  not  only  had  no  war,  but  was  an 
associate. 

Page  12.  May  it  not  be  inferred  from  what  is  said  here,  that 
though  the  United  States  would  not  wish  to  insert  an  express 
stipulation  against  other  nations,  yet  they  may  be  prevailed  up- 
on to  do  it  ?  Would  such  a  stipulation  be  consistent  with  the 
right  which  Great  Britain  reserved  to  herself  in  the  treaty  with 
us  ?  If  the  influence  alluded  to  is  intended  to  be  excluded,  will  it 
not  be  advisable  to  vary  the  turn  of  expression  so  as  to  render  the 
intention  more  unequivocal  ?* 

Page  23.  Are  there  conclusive  reasons  to  make  it  a  sine  qua 
non  that  no  phrase  shall  be  admitted  which  shall  express  or 
imply  a  grant  ?  Could  the  negotiation  with  propriety  be  broken 
ofT  on  such  a  point  ? 

Is  it  not  rather  one  to  be  endeavored  to  be  avoided,  than  the 
avoiding  of  it  to  be  made  a  sine  qua  non  ?f 

Page  25.  Is  it  true  that  the  United  States  have  no  right  to 
alienate  an  inch  of  the  territory  in  question,  except  in  the  case 
of  necessity,  intimated  in  another  place  ?  Or  will  it  be  useful  to 
avow  the  denial  of  such  a  right  ?  It  is  apprehended  that  the 
doctrine  which  restricts  the  alienation  of  territory  to  cases  of  ex- 
treme necessity,  is  applicable  rather  to  peopled  territory,  than  to 
waste  and  uninhabited  districts.  Positions  restraining  the  right  of 
the  United  States  to  accommodate  to  exigencies  which  may  arise, 
ought  ever  to  be  advanced  with  great  caution.;): 

*  The  word  choose  substituted  for  wish,  however  England  could  hold  that  right 
of  command  in  the  water  only  as  incident  to  Florida,  which  she  then  held.  When 
she  conveyed  Florida  to  Spain,  the  incident  passed  by  the  same  consequence,  and 
she  can  never  have  a  claim  against  us  on  a  stipulation,  the  benefit  of  which  she 
has  conveyed  to  another. 

t  Report  altered  in  conformity  to  this. 

£  The  power  to  alienate  the  unpeopled  territory  of  any  State,  is  not  among  the 
enumerated  powers  given  by  the  Constitution  to  the  General  Government,  and  if 
we  may  go  out  of  that  instrument,  and  accommodate  to  exigencies  which  may  arise, 
by  alienating  the  unpeopled  territory  of  a  State,  we  may  accommodate  ourselves 
a  little  more  by  alienating  that  which  is  peopled,  and  still  a  little  more  by  selling 
the  people  themselves.     A  shade  or  two  more  in  the  degree  of  exigency  is  all  that 


192  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

Page  28.  Is  it  true  that  the  stipulation  with  France  respect- 
ing the  reception  of  prizes  is  exclusive  and  incommunicable  ?  It 
is  doubtless  so  as  against  France,  but  why  is  it  so  as  against 
other  nations  ? 

It  is  however  a  stipulation  very  inconvenient  and  even  dan- 
gerous to  the  United  States,  and  one  which  ought  by  all  means 
to  be  excluded.* 

Though  a  treaty  of  commerce  like  that  contemplated  in  the 
report  ought  not  to  be  rejected,  if  desired  by  Spain,  and  coupled 
with  a  satisfactory  adjustment  of  the  boundary  and  navigation;  yet 
ought  not  something  more  to  be  attempted,  if  it  were  only  to  give 
satisfaction  to  other  parts  of  the  Union?  Some  positively  favor- 
able stipulations  respecting  our  grain,  flour,  and  fish,  even  in  the 
European  dominions  of  Spain,  would  be  of  great  consequence, 
and  would  justify  reciprocal  advantages  to  some  of  her  commo- 
dities (say  wines  and  brandies.)f 

Will  it  not  be  necessary  to  add  an  instruction  that  the  usual 
stipulation  respecting  the  ratification  of  the  treaty  by  the  United 
States,  be  varied,  so  as  to  be  adapted  to  the  participation  of  the 
Senate  ?  \ 

Last  page.  The  words  "nor  in  assenting  to  their  rights" — 
have  a  pencil  line  drawn  through  them. — 'Tis  certainly  best  to 
obliterate  them. 

The  less  commitment  the  better.  § 

will  be  requisite,  and  of  that  degree  we  shall  ourselves  be  the  judges.  However, 
may  it  not  be  hoped  that  these  questions  are  for  ever  laid  to  rest  by  the  12th 
amendment,  now  made  a  part  of  the  Constitution,  declaring  expressly  that  the 
powers  not  delegated  to  the  United  States  by  the  Constitution  are  reserved  to  the 
States  respectively  1  And  if  the  General  Government  has  no  power  to  alienate  the 
territory  of  a  State,  it  is  too  irresistible  an  argument  to  deny  ourselves  the  use  of 
it  on  the  present  occasion. 

*  It  is  certainly  impossible  for  any  nation  to  have  stipulations  of  this  kind  and 
extent  with  two  others  at  the  same  time.  However,  the  language  of  the  Report  is 
made  more  correct  and  conformable  to  the  words  of  the  French  treaty. 

t  If  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  will  be  so  good  as  to  particularize  the  advan- 
tages to  be  asked  and  the  equivalents  to  be  offered,  it  will  be  proper  to  consider  of 
them. 

X  It  seems  sufficient  to  stipulate  that  the  treaty  shall  be  ratified  without  saying 
by  what  body  or  by  what  individuals  it  is  to  be.  An  instruction,  however,  is  in- 
serted to  allow  sixteen  months  for  the  exchange  of  ratifications. 

$  This  has  been  decided  before. 


jEt.35.]  cabinet    papers.  193 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

March  8th,  1792. 
The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  has  the  honor  to  submit  to 
the  President  a  letter  which  he  has  drafted,  in  answer  to  one 
from  the  Minister  Plenipotentiary  of  France,  and  which  contains 
such  ideas  as  have  appeared  to  him  compatible  with  the  law, 
with  the  state  of  the  treasury,  and  with  a  liberal  attention  to 
the  conjuncture.  He  will  wait  on  the  President  this  evening  for 
his  orders,  as  Mr.  Ternant  appears  urgent. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

March  16th,  1792. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  has  the  honor  to  submit  to  the 
President  the  draft  of  a  report  on  the  subject  of  ways  and  means 
for  carrying  into  execution  the  military  bill. 

He  will  wait  on  the  President  to-morrow  morning,  for  his 
orders,  as  it  is  interesting  there  should  be  no  unavoidable  delay. 


HAMILTON  TO  SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  March  21st,  1792. 

Sir: 

As  the  discharge  of  the  arrears  of  interest,  and  instalments  of 
principal,  of  the  French  debt,  which  arc  due,  may  have  oc- 
casioned your  power  to  borrow  for  that  object  to  be  suspended 
until  you  can  obtain  a  loan  at  a  rate  of  interest  and  charges 
sufficiently  reduced,  it  is  my  wish  that,  as  soon  as  it  shall  be 
proper  after  the  receipt  of  this  letter,  you  would  proceed  to 
d  13 


194  HAMILTON'S    WORKS  [jEt.  35. 

borrow  the  sum  of  three  millions  of  florins,  on  the  terms  of  the 
Antwerp  loan,  to  be  applied  to  the  purposes  mentioned  in  the 
act  of  the  12th  of  August,  1790,  for  the  reduction  of  the  public 
debt. 

I  shall  wish  for  the  earliest  advices  upon  this  subject,  to 
enable  me  to  direct  the  drafts ;  and  I  request  your  particular 
attention  so  to  manage  the  operation,  that  no  loss  of  interest, 
which  can  be  avoided,  may  take  place. 


HAMILTON  TO  SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  April  2d,  1792. 

Sir: 

I  am  to  acknowledge  the  receipt  of  your  several  letters  of  the 
22d  of  November,  23d,  28th,  and  30th  of  December. 

The  accomplishment,  thus  early,  of  a  loan  at  four  per  cent, 
exceeds  expectations.  The  intelligence  of  it  was  received  with 
great  satisfaction  by  the  President,  as  well  as  by  myself,  and  has 
given  no  small  pleasure  to  the  public  at  large. 

You  will  perceive,  by  my  letter  of  the  14th  of  February,  the 
impression  I  entertained  of  the  effect  of  your  operation  at  Ant- 
werp. The  event  is  a  confirmation  of  the  good  policy  of 
opeDing  to  the  United  States  more  than  one  market. 

I  observe  what  you  say  with  regard  to  the  relative  state  of 
exchange  and  depreciation  in  France.  I  shall  be  glad  to  be  in- 
formed that  a  rule  for  liquidating  the  payments  by  the  United 
States  has  been  adopted.  It  will  be  better  to  have  it  settled  now, 
than  to  leave  it  to  future  discussion.  Embarrassments  may  here- 
after arise  in  fixing  a  rule,  which  may  be  as  advantageous  to  the 
United  States  as  a  very  moderate  regard  to  their  interest  would 
render  desirable.  The  moment  of  commencing  payments,  by 
anticipation,  of  sums  not  already  due,  has  been,  or  will  be,  a 
very  favorable  one  for  a  right  adjustment  of  this  point. 

You  desire  my  ideas  concerning  the  comparative  expediency 


jEt.35.]  cabinet    papers.  195 

of  making  loans  at  Amsterdam  or  Antwerp  on  equal  terms  of 
interest  and  charges,  in  the  event  of  a  tax  being  laid  by  the 
States-General,  as  has  been  expected.  This  you  will  be  better 
able  to  determine  than  myself,  when  I  explain  to  you  the  ground 
of  the  preference  before  signified  by  me.  It  was  founded  on  a 
supposition  that  the  course  of  trade  and  money  transactions  will 
render  remittances  from  this  country  to  Amsterdam  more  easy 
and  less  disadvantageous  than  to  Antwerp.  Now,  the  general 
course  of  exchange  between  Amsterdam  and  Antwerp  will  de- 
cide whether  it  be  more  advantageous  to  pay  the  tax,  than  to 
remit  through  Amsterdam  to  Antwerp,  which  I  presume,  gene- 
rally speaking,  must  be  the  case.  If  exchange  be  against  Ant- 
werp, in  a  degree  sufficient  to  counterbalance  the  tax,  the  prefer- 
ence will  be  due  to  Amsterdam ;  if  otherwise,  to  Antwerp. 

The  explanations  you  desire  respecting  the  state  of  the  debt 
due  to  France,  shall  be  forwarded  by  the  next  opportunity,  as 
shall  be  the  contracts  for  the  two  last  loans  ratified  by  the  Presi- 
dent. An  unusual  press  of  business  in  the  executive  depart- 
ments occasions,  unavoidably,  this  delay. 

It  is  impossible  for  me  to  agree  to  an  alteration  of  the  terms 
of  the  six  million  loan  in  the  particular  suggested.  It  would  be 
a  renunciation  of  an  advantage  really  important  in  itself,  and 
still  more  so  in  the  public  opinion  of  this  country. 

The  readiness  which  appeared,  in  the  first  instance,  to  accede 
to  the  right  of  redeeming  at  pleasure,  was  more  agreeable  than 
expected.  The  change  of  views  on  this  point  is  a  natural  result 
of  the  circumstances  which  have  been  experienced. 

The  terms  of  the  last  loan  supersede  the  necessity  of  the  lati- 
tude contemplated  in  mine  of  the  21st  of  March. 

The  Treasurer  will  draw  upon  our  Commissioners  in  Holland 
for  five  hundred  thousand  florins,  so  as  to  arrive  and  be  payable 
in  June.  I  fear,  under  the  instructions  that  have  been  given,  to 
risk  drafts  for  a  greater  sum ;  though  I  consider  it  as  for  the 
interest  of  the  United  States  to  prosecute  the  purchases  of  the 
public  debt  with  moneys  borrowed  upon  the  terms  of  the  last 
loan,  and  mean,  as  fast  as  I  perceive  it  can  be  done  with  safety, 
to  draw  for  a  further  sum  of  two  millions  and  a  half  of  florins  to 


196  HAMILTON'S    WORKri.  [Mt.  35. 

complete  the  three  millions  intended  by  my  last-mentioned  letter. 
Your  future  letters  will  determine  me  whether  to  extend  my 

drafts  upon  the  loans  already  made,  or  to  wait  for  a  reservation 

by  you  out  of  some  future  loan. 

P.  S. — If  the  terms  of  the  last  loan  can  be  rendered  station- 
ary, it  will  be  of  the  happiest  consequence.  Perhaps*  it  will  con- 
duce to  this  to  let  it  be  understood  that  the  loans  will  be  confined 
to  Amsterdam,  and  probably  extended  for  domestic  operations, 
if  things  can  be  kept  in  the  same  position.  Something  like  this 
has  been  hinted  by  me. 


KNOX  TO  WASHINGTON. 

War  Department,  April  3,  1792. 

Sir: 

Agreeably  to  your  directions,  as  delivered  to  me  this  day  by 
the  Attorney-General,  I  have  endeavored  to  take  into  consider- 
ation the  expediency  of  your  giving  your  approbation  to  the  act 
entitled  "An  act  for  an  apportionment  of  representatives  among 
the  several  States  according  to  the  first  enumeration,"  the  consti- 
tutionality thereof  being  doubted  by  some  persons. 

I  might  plead  my  inability  to  give  an  opinion  on  so  impor- 
tant and  doubtful  a  point,  as  not  possessing  that  previous  infor- 
mation more  peculiarly  resulting  from  a  study  of  the  law,  and 
from  not  having  seen  the  merits  of  the  question  discussed  in  any 
of  the  debates  of  the  House.  It  is,  therefore,  with  the  highest 
diffidence  I  venture  on  the  subject. 

The  point  upon  which  the  question  turns  is,  whether  the 
numbers  of  representatives  shall  be  apportioned  on  the  aggregate 
number  of  all  the  people  of  the  United  States,  or  on  the  aggre- 
gate number  of  the  people  of  each  State,  notwithstanding  several 
large  fractions  may  exist  in  each  State  unrepresented. 

It  has  been  said  that  either  construction  may  be  deemed  to 
be  within  the  letter  as  well  as  the  spirit  of  the  Constitution.    If 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  197 

this  opinion  should  be  just,  which  I  freely  confess  I  am  not 
qualified  of  myself  at  this  time  to  decide,  it  would  result  that  the 
assent  of  the  President  of  the  United  States  is  to  be  governed  by 
the  political  equity  of  the  measure. 

In  this  view  of  the  case,  I  find  my  mind  less  embarrassed 
with  doubt;  for,  although  some  smaller  fractions  may  be  unrep- 
resented, yet  most  of  the  larger  ones  are  comprehended.  In  the 
bill,  eight  States,  each  having  a  fraction  of  upwards  of  twenty- 
five  thousand,  are  provided  with  a  representative;  whereas,  in 
the  other  seven  States,  no  one  of  which  would  have  more  than 
twelve  thousand  eight  hundred  and  sixty-six,  and  only  one  State 
that  number,  and  the  whole  seven  States  but  little  more  than 
fifty  thousand  federal  numbers  unrepresented,  provided  all  idea 
of  virtual  representation  should  be  rejected  according  to  the  prin- 
ciple of  the  bill  itself.  But,  on  the  contrary,  were  the  fractions 
of  the  eight  States  possessing  the  largest  fractions  not  considered, 
upwards  of  two  hundred  thousand  federal  numbers  would  be 
unrepresented. 

As,  then,  the  Senate  and  House  of  Eepresentatives  have 
passed  this  law  (by  small  majorities,  indeed),  and  as  the  consti- 
tutionality is  only  doubted,  not  proved,  but  the  equity  of  the 
measure  apparent,  it  would  appear  rather  a  delicate  measure  for 
the  President  to  decide  the  question  contrary  to  the  bill  as 
passed. 

If  precedents  are  to  be  drawn  from  the  conduct  of  the  King 
of  Great  Britain  in  similar  cases  of  doubtful  laws,  it  would  ren- 
der the  propriety  of  the  President's  disapprobation  still  more 
questionable. 


JEFFERSON  TO   WASHINGTON. 


April  4,  1702. 

The  Constitution  has  declared  that  "  representatives  and  di- 
rect taxes  shall  be  apportioned  among  the  several  States  accord- 
ing to  their  respective  numbers ;"  that  "  the  number  of  represent. 


198 


HAMILTON'S    WORKS. 


[jEt.  35. 


atives  shall  not  exceed  one  for  every  thirty  thousand,  bnt  each 
State  shall  have,  at  least,  one  representative;  and,  until  such 
enumeration  shall  be  made,  the  State  of  New  Hampshire  shall  be 
entitled  to  choose  three,  Massachusetts,"  &c. 

The  bill  for  apportioning  representatives  among  the  several 
States,  without  explaining  any  principle  at  all  which  may  show 
its  conformity  with  the  Constitution,  or  guide  future  apportion- 
ments, says,  that  New  Hampshire  shall  have  three  members, 
Massachusetts  sixteen,  &c.  We  are,  therefore,  to  find  by  experi- 
ment what  has  been  the  principle  of  the  bill ;  to  do  which,  it  is 
proper  to  state  the  federal  or  representable  numbers  of  each 
State,  and  the  members  allotted  to  them  by  the  bill.  They  are 
as  follows : — 


Vermont,      .     .     . 

85,532 

3 

It  happens  that  this  representation. 

New  Hampshire,    . 

141.823 

5 

whether  tried  as  between  great 

Massachusetts, 

475,327 

16 

and  small  States,  or  as  between 

Rhode  Island,    . 

68,444 

2 

north  and  south,  yields,  in  the 

Connecticut, 

235,941 

8 

present  instance,  a  tolerably  just 

New-York,  . 

352,915 

11 

result,  and   consequently  could 

New-Jersey, 

179,556 

6 

not  be  objected  to  on  that  ground, 

Pennsylvania, 

432.880 

14 

if  it  were  obtained  by  the  pro- 

Delaware,    . 

55.538 

2 

cess  prescribed  in  the  Constitu- 

Maryland,    . 

278,513 

9 

tion  ;    but,  if  obtained   by   any 

Virginia, 

630.558 

21 

process  out  of  that,  it  becomes 

Kentucky,    . 

68,705 

2 

inadmissible. 

North  Carolina, 

353,521 

11 

South  Carolina, 

206,236 

7 

Georgia,  .... 

70,843 

2 

3,636,312 

120 

The  first  member  of  the  clause  of  the  Constitution  above 
cited  is  express — that  representatives  shall  be  apportioned  among 
the  several  States  according  to  their  respective  numbers  ;  that  is  to 
say,  they  shall  be  apportioned  by  some  common  ratio,  for  propor- 
tion and  ratio  are  equivalent  words ;  and  it  is  the  definition  of 
proportion  among  numbers,  that  they  have  a  ratio  common  to  allt 
or,  in  other  words,  a  common  divisor.  Now,  trial  will  show  that 
there  is  no  common  ratio,  or  divisor,  which,  applied  to  the  num- 
bers of  each  State,  will  give  to  them  the  number  of  representa- 


Mt.  35.] 


CABINET    PAPERS 


199 


tives  allotted  in  this  bill ;  for,  trying  the  several  ratios  of  29,  30, 
31,  32,  33,  the  allotments  would  be  as  follows : 


Vermont,      .     . 
New  Hampshire, 
Massachusetts, 
Rhode  Island, 
Connecticut, 
New-York,   . 
New  Jersey, 
Pennsylvania. 
Delaware, 
Maryland, 
Virginia,  .     . 
Kentucky,    . 
North  Carolina, 
South  Carolina, 
Georgia,  .     . 


The 

29 

30 

31 

32 

2 

33 

2 

bill. 
3 

2 

2 

2 

Then  the  bill  reverses  the 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

5 

constitutional    precept ; 

16 

15 

15 

14 

14 

16 

because,  by  it,  "repre- 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

sentatives  are  not  appor- 

8 

7 

7 

7 

7 

8 

tioned  among  the  seve- 

12 

11 

11 

11 

10 

11 

ral  States  according  to 

6 

5 

5 

5 

5 

6 

their    respective    num- 

14 

14 

13 

13 

13 

14 

bers." 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

2 

9 

9 

8 

8 

8 

9 

21 

21 

20 

19 

19 

21 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

12 

11 

11 

11 

10 

12 

7 

6 

6 

6 

6 

7 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

118 

112 

109 

107 

105 

120 

It  will  be  said  that,  though  for  taxes  there  may  always  be 
found  a  divisor,  which  will  apportion  them  among  the  States  ac- 
cording to  numbers  exactly,  without  leaving  any  remainder ;  yet, 
for  representatives,  there  can  be  no  such  common  ratio,  or  divisor, 
which,  applied  to  the  several  numbers,  will  divide  them  exactly, 
without  a  remainder  or  fraction.  I  answer,  then,  that  taxes  must 
be  divided  exactly,  and  representatives  as  nearly  as  the  nearest 
ratio  will  admit,  and  the  fractions  must  be  neglected;  because 
the  Constitution  wills,  absolutely,  that  there  be  an  apportionment, 
or  common  ratio ;  and  if  any  fractions  result  from  the  operation, 
it  has  left  them  unprovided  for.  In  fact,  it  could  not  but  foresee 
that  such  fractions  would  result,  and  it  meant  to  submit  to  them. 
It  knew  they  would  be  in  favor  of  one  part  of  the  Union  at  one 
time,  and  of  another  part  of  it  at  another,  so  as,  in  the  end,  to 
balance  occasional  inequalities.  But,  instead  of  such  a  single 
common  ratio,  or  uniform  divisor,  as  prescribed  by  the  Consti- 
tution, the  bill  has  applied  two  ratios,  at  least,  to  the  different 
States,  to  wit,  that  of  30,026  to  the  seven  following:  Ehode 
Island,  New- York,  Pennsylvania,  Maryland,  Virginia,  Kentucky, 


200 


HAMILTON'S    WORKS. 


[Mt.  35. 


and  Georgia;  and  that  of  27,770  to  the  eight  others;  namely, 
Vermont,  New  Hampshire,  Massachusetts,  Connecticut,  New 
Jersey,  Delaware,  North  Carolina,  and  South  Carolina.  As 
follows : 


> 

And 

03 

> 

Rhode  Island,     .     . 

68,444 

"5 

2 

Vermont,      .     .     . 

85,532 

'3d 

3 

New-York,       .     .     . 

352,915 

cc 

11 

New  Hampshire, 

141,823 

o* 

5 

Pennsylvania,     .     . 

432,880 

© 

M 

Massachusetts, 

475,327 

16 

Maryland,    .... 

278,513 

cc 

9 

Connecticut,  .     .     . 

235,941 

8 

Virginia,    .... 

630.558 

> 

21 

New  Jersey,     .     . 

179,556 

>» 

6 

Kentucky,  .... 

68,705 

— ; 

2 

Delaware,       .     .     . 

55.538 

2 

Georgia,     .... 

70,843 

<L 

2 

North  Carolina, 

353.521 

12 

t> 

South  Carolina,  .     . 

206,236 

"> 

7 

Q 

Q 

And  if  two  ratios  may  be  applied,  then  fifteen  may,  and  the 
distribution  become  arbitrary,  instead  of  being  apportioned  to 
numbers. 

Another  member  of  the  clause  of  the  Constitution  which  has 
been  cited  says,  "the  number  of  representatives  shall  not  exceed 
one  for  every  30,000,  but  each  State  shall  have,  at  least,  one 
representative."  This  last  phrase  proves  that  it  had  in  contem- 
plation that  all  fractions,  or  numbers  below  the  common  ratio,  were 
to  be  unrepresented ;  and  it  provides  specially,  that,  in  the  case 
of  a  State  whose  whole  number  shall  be  below  the  common 
ratio,  one  representative  shall  be  given  to  it.  This  is  the  single 
instance  where  it  allows  representation  to  any  smaller  number 
than  the  common  ratio,  and,  by  providing  specially  for  it  in  this, 
shows  it  was  understood  that,  without  special  provision,  the 
smaller  number  would,  in  this  case,  be  involved  in  the  general 
principle. 

The  first  phrase  of  the  above  citation,  that  "  the  number  of 
representatives  shall  not  exceed  one  for  every  30,000,"  is  violated 
by  this  bill,  which  has  given  to  eight  States  a  number  exceeding 
one  for  every  30,000,  to  wit,  one  for  every  27,770. 

In  answer  to  this,  it  is  said,  that  this  phrase  may  mean  either 
the  thirty  thousands  in  each  State,  or  the  thirty  thousands  in  the 
whole  Union ;  and  that,  in  the  latter  case,  it  serves  only  to  find 
the  amount  of  the  whole  representation,  which,  in  the  present 


iEx.35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  201 

state  of  population,  is  one  hundred  and  twenty  members.  Sup- 
pose the  phrase  might  bear  both  meanings,  which  will  common 
sense  apply  to  it?  Which  did  the  universal  understanding  of 
our  country  apply  to  it  ?  Which  did  the  Senate  and  Kepresenta- 
tives  apply  to  it  during  the  pendency  of  the  first  bill,  and  even 
till  an  advanced  stage  of  this  second  bill,  when  an  ingenious  gen- 
tleman found  out  the  doctrine  of  fractions — a  doctrine  so  difficult 
and  inobvious,  as  to  be  rejected,  at  first  sight,  by  the  very  per- 
sons who  afterwards  became  its  most  zealous  advocates.  The 
phrase  stands  in  the  midst  of  a  number  of  others,  every  one  of 
which  relates  to  States  in  their  separate  capacity.  Will  not  plain 
common  sense,  then,  understand  it,  like  the  rest  of  its  context,  to 
relate  to  States  in  their  separate  capacities  ? 

But  if  the  phrase  of  one  for  30,000,  is  only  meant  to  give  the 
aggregate  of  representatives,  and  not  at  all  to  influence  their  ap- 
portionment among  the  States,  then  the  one  hundred  and  twenty 
being  once  found,  in  order  to  apportion  them,  we  must  recur  to 
the  former  rule,  which  does  it  according  to  the  numbers  of  the 
respective  States  ;  and  we  must  take  the  nearest  common  divisor  as 
the  ratio  of  distribution,  that  is  to  say,  that  divisor  which,  ap- 
plied to  every  State,  gives  to  them  such  numbers  as,  added 
together,  come  nearest  to  120.  This  nearest  common  ratio  will 
be  found  to  be  28,858,  and  will  distribute  119  of  the  120  mem- 
bers, leaving  only  a  single  residuary  one.  It  will  be  found,  too, 
to  place  96,648  fractional  numbers  in  the  eight  northernmost 
States,  and  105,582  in  the  seven  southernmost.  The  following 
table  shows  it. 


202 


HAMILTON'S    WORKS. 


[Mt.  35. 


Ratio  of 

Fractions. 

85,532 

28,858. 

Vermont,         .... 

2 

27,816 

New  Hampshire,  . 

141,823 

4 

26,391 

Massachusetts, 

475,327 

16 

13.599 

Rhode  Island, 

68,444 

2 

10.728 

Connecticut,     .... 

235.941 

8 

5,077 

New-York,    .... 

352,915 

12 

6,619 

New  Jersey,     .... 

179,556 

6 

6,408 

Pennsylvania, 

432,880 

15 

10 

96,648 

Delaware,         .... 

55.598 

1 

26,680 

Maryland,     .... 

278,513 

9 

18,791 

Virginia, 

630,558 

21 

24,540 

Kentucky,    .... 

68,705 

2 

10,989 

North  Carolina, 

353,521 

12 

7,225 

South  Carolina,     . 

206,236 

7 

4.230 

Georgia, 

70,843 

2 

13,127 

105,582 

3,636,312 

119 

202,230 

202,230 

Whatever  may  have  been  the  intention,  the  effect  of  rejecting 
the  nearest  divisor,  (which  leaves  but  one  residuary  member,) 
and  adopting  a  distant  one,  (which  leaves  eight,)  is  merely  to 
take  a  member  from  New- York  and  Pennsylvania  each,  and  give 
them  to  Vermont  and  New  Hampshire.  But  it  will  be  said, 
"this  is  giving  more  than  one  for  30,000."  True;  but  has  it 
not  been  just  said,  that  the  one  for  30,000  is  prescribed  only  to 
fix  the  aggregate  number,  and  that  we  are  not  to  mind  it  when 
we  come  to  apportion  them  among  the  States ;  that  for  this  we 
must  recur  to  the  former  rule,  which  distributes  them  according 
to  the  numbers  in  each  State  ?  Besides,  does  not  the  bill  itself 
apportion  among  seven  of  the  States,  by  the  ratio  of  27,770, 
which  is  much  more  than  one  for  30,000? 

Where  a  phrase  is  susceptible  of  two  meanings,  we  ought 
certainly  to  adopt  that  which  will  bring  upon  us  the  fewest  in- 
conveniences. Let  us  weigh  those  resulting  from  both  con- 
structions. 

From  that  giving  to  each  State  a  member  for  every  30,000 
in  that  State,  results  the  single  inconvenience  that  there  may  be 


^t.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  203 

large  fractions  unrepresented.  But  it  being  a  mere  hazard 
on  which  States  this  will  fall,  hazard  will  equalize  it  in  the 
long  run. 

From  the  other  results  exactly  the  same  inconvenience.  A 
thousand  cases  may  be  imagined  to  prove  it.  Take  one :  sup- 
pose eight  of  the  States  had  45,000  inhabitants  each,  and  the 
other  seven  44,999  each,  that  is  to  say,  each  one  less  than  each 
of  the  others,  the  aggregate  would  be  674.993,  and  the  number 
of  representatives,  at  one  for  30,000  of  the  aggregate,  would  be 
22,  Then,  after  giving  one  member  to  each  State,  distribute  the 
seven  residuary  members  among  the  seven  highest  fractions; 
and,  though  the  difference  of  population  be  only  an  unit,  the  rep- 
resentation would  be  the  double.  Here  a  single  inhabitant  the 
more,  would  count  as  30,000.  Nor  is  this  case  imaginable  only  ; 
it  will  resemble  the  real  one,  whenever  the  fractions  happen  to 
be  pretty  equal  through  the  whole  States.  The  numbers  of  our 
census  happen,  by  accident,  to  give  the  fractions  all  very  small 
or  very  great,  so  as  to  produce  the  strongest  case  of  inequality 
that  could  possibly  have  occurred,  and  which  may  never  occur 
again.  The  probability  is,  that  the  fractions  will  generally 
descend  gradually  from  39,999  to  1.  The  inconvenience,  then, 
of  large  unrepresented  fractions  attends  both  constructions ;  and? 
while  the  most  obvious  construction  is  liable  to  no  other,  that  of 
the  bill  incurs  many  and  grievous  ones. 


204 


HAMILTON'S    WORKS. 


[Mt.  35. 


1st, 

2d, 

3d, 

4th, 

5th, 

6th, 

7th, 

8th, 

9th, 

10th, 

11th, 

12th, 

13th, 

14th, 

15th, 


2 

Fractions. 

• 

45,000 

.15.000 

45.000 

2 

15.000 

45,000 

2 

15,000 

45,000 

2 

15,000 

45,000 

2 

15,000 

45,000 

2 

15,000 

45.000 

2 

15.000 

45.000 

2 

15,000 

44,999 

1 

14.999 

44,999 

1 

14.999 

44.999 

1 

14,999 

44.999 

1 

14,999 

44,999 

1 

14.999 

44,999 

1 

14,999 

44,999 

1 

14,999 

674,993 

1.  If  you  permit  the  large  fraction  in  one  State  to  choose  a 
representative  for  one  of  the  small  fractions  in  another  State, 
you  take  from  the  latter  its  election,  which  constitutes  real  repre- 
sentation, and  substitute  a  virtual  representation  of  the  disfran- 
chised fractions ;  and  the  tendency  of  the  doctrine  of  virtual 
representation  has  been  too  well  discussed  and  appreciated  by 
reasoning  and  resistance,  on  a  former  great  occasion,  to  need  de- 
velopment now. 

2.  The  bill  does  not  say  that  it  has  given  the  residuary  rep- 
resentatives to  the  greatest  fractions ;  though,  in  fact,  it  has  done 
so.  It  seems  to  have  avoided  establishing  that  into  a  rule,  lest 
it  might  not  suit  on  another  occasion.  Perhaps  it  may  be  found 
the  next  time  more  convenient  to  distribute  them  among  the 
smaller  States;  at  another  time  among  the  larger  States;  at  other 
times  according  to  any  other  crotchet  which  ingenuity  may  in- 
vent, and  the  combination  of  the  day  give  strength  to  carry ;  or 
they  may  do  it  arbitrarily,  by  open  bargain  and  cabal.  In  short, 
this  construction  introduces  into  Congress  a  scramble,  or  a  ven- 
due for  the  surplus  members.  It  generates  waste  of  time,  hot- 
blood,  and  may,  at  some  time,  when  the  passions  are  high,  ex- 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  205 

tend  a  disagreement  between  the  two  Houses,  to  the  perpetual 
loss  of  the  thing,  as  happens  now  in  Pennsylvania  Assembly  : 
whereas  the  other  construction  reduces  the  apportionment  always 
to  an  arithmetical  operation,  about  which  no  two  men  can  pos- 
sibly differ. 

3.  It  leaves  in  full  force  the  violation  of  the  precept  which 
declares  that  representatives  shall  be  apportioned  among  the 
States  according  to  their  numbers,  i.  e.  by  some  common  ratio. 

Viewing  this  bill  either  as  a  violation  of  the  Constitution,  or  as 
giving  an  inconvenient  exposition  to  its  words,  is  it  a  case  wherein 
the  President  ought  to  interpose  his  negative  ?     I  think  it  is. 

1.  The  non-user  of  his  negative  begins  already  to  excite  a 
belief  that  no  President  will  ever  venture  to  use  it ;  and,  conse- 
quently, has  begotten  a  desire  to  raise  up  barriers  in  the  State 
legislatures  against  Congress  throwing  off  the  control  of  the 
Constitution. 

2.  It  can  never  be  used  more  pleasingly  to  the  public  than 
in  the  protection  of  the  Constitution. 

3.  No  invasions  of  the  Constitution  are  so  fundamentally 
dangerous  as  the  tricks  played  on  their  own  numbers,  apportion- 
ment, and  other  circumstances  respecting  themselves,  and  affect- 
ing their  legal  qualifications  to  legislate  for  the  Union. 

4.  The  majorities  by  which  this  bill  has  been  carried  (to  wit, 
of  one  in  the  Senate,  and  two  in  the  House  of  Eepresentatives), 
show  how  divided  the  opinions  were  there. 

5.  The  whole  of  both  Houses  admit  the  Constitution  will  bear 
the  other  exposition ;  whereas  the  minorities  in  both  deny  it  will 
bear  that  of  the  bill. 

6.  The  application  of  any  one  ratio  is  intelligible  to  the 
people,  and  will,  therefore,  be  approved ;  whereas  the  complex 
operations  of  this  bill  will  never  be  comprehended  by  them; 
and,  though  they  may  acquiesce,  they  cannot  approve  what  they 
do  not  understand. 


206  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 


HAMILTON  TO   WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  April  4,  1792. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  presents  his  respects  to  the 
President  of  the  United  States.  He  was  hi  formed  yesterday,  by 
the  Attorney-General,  that  his  opinion  concerning  the  constitu- 
tionality of  the  Eepresentation  Bill  was  desired  this  morning. 
He  now  sends  it  with  his  reasons,  but  more  imperfectly  stated 
than  he  could  have  wished,  through  want  of  time.  He  has  never 
seen  the  bill,  but  from  the  accounts  he  has  had  of  it,  he  takes  it 
for  granted  that  he  cannot  have  misconceived  its  contents,  so  as 
to  cause  any  material  error  in  the  process  of  his  reasoning. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  April  4,  1792. 

The  President  desires  an  opinion,  whether  the  act  entitled 
"  An  act  for  an  apportionment  of  representatives  among  the  sev- 
eral States  according  to  the  first  enumeration,"  be  constitutional, 
or  not. 

It  is  to  be  inferred,  from  the  provisions  of  the  act,  that  the 
following  process  has  been  pursued : 

1.  The  aggregate  numbers  of  the  United  States  are  divided 
by  30,000,  which  gives  the  total  number  of  representatives,  or  120. 

2.  This  number  is  apportioned  among  the  several  States  by 
the  following  rule :  As  the  aggregate  numbers  of  the  United  States 
are  to  the  total  number  of  representatives  found  as  above,  so  are 
the  particular  numbers  of  each  State  to  the  number  of  representa- 
tives of  such  State.     But, 

3.  As  this  second  process  leaves  a  residue  of  eight  out  of  the 
120  members  unapportioned,  these  are  distributed  among  those 
States  which,  upon  that  second  process,  have  the  largest  fractions 
or  remainders. 


;Et.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  207 

As  a  ratio  of  30,000  appears  to  have  been  adopted  as  a  guide, 
the  question  is,  whether  this  ratio  ought  to  have  been  applied,  in 
the  first  instance,  to  the  aggregate  numbers  of  the  United  StateSj 
or  to  the  particular  numbers  of  each  State  ? 

I  am  of  opinion  that  either  of  these  courses  might  have  been 
constitutionally  pursued ;  or,  in  other  words,  that  there  is  no 
criterion  by  which  it  can  be  pronounced  decisively  that  the  one 
or  the  other  is  the  true  construction.  Cases  so  situated  often 
arise  on  constitutions  and  laws. 

The  part  of  the  Constitution  in  question  is  thus  expressed : 
"  Representatives  and  direct  taxes  shall  be  apportioned  among  the 
several  States  according  to  their  respective  numbers." 

'Tis  plain  that  the  same  rule  is  to  be  pursued  with  regard  to 
direct  taxes  as  with  regard  to  representatives. 

What  is  the  process  which  would  naturally  be  followed  in 
relation  to  the  apportionment  of  direct  taxes  ? 

Clearly  this — the  total  sum  necessary  would  be  first  ascertained. 

This  total  sum  would  then  be  apportioned  among  the  several 
States  by  the  following  rule,  viz. 

As  the  aggregate  numbers  of  the  United  States  are  to  the 
whole  sum  required,  so  are  the  particular  numbers  of  a  particular 
State  to  the  proportion  of  such  State ;  which  is,  so  far,  the  exact 
process  that  has  been  followed  by  the  bill  in  the  apportionment 
of  representatives. 

And  hence  results  a  strong  argument  for  its  constitutionality. 

If  there  had  been  no  ratio  mentioned  in  the  Constitution,  'tis 
evident  that  no  other  course  could  have  been  well  pursued.  No 
doubt,  at  least,  of  the  propriety  of  that  which  has  been  pursued, 
could  have  been  then  entertained. 

Does  the  mention  of  a  ratio  necessarily  alter  it  ? 

The  words  of  the  Constitution,  in  respect  to  the  ratio,  are 
these  : — "  The  number  of  representatives  shall  not  exceed  one 
for  every  30,000,  but  each  State  shall  have  at  least  one  represen- 
tative." 

This  provision  may  naturally  be  read  and  understood  thus : 
"  The  whole  number  of  the  representatives  of  the  United  States 
shall  not  exceed  one  to  every  30,000  of  the  aggregate  numbers 


208  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

of  the  United  States ;  but,  if  it  should  happen  that  the  proportion 
of  the  numbers  of  any  State  to  the  aggregate  numbers  of  the 
United  States  should  not  give  to  such  State  one  representative, 
such  State  shall,  nevertheless,  have  one.  No  State  shall  be  with- 
out a  representative." 

There  is  nothing  in  the  form  of  expression  to  confine  the  ap- 
plication of  the  ratio  to  the  several  numbers  of  the  States.  The 
mode  of  expression  equally  permits  its  application  to  their  joint 
or  aggregate  numbers.  The  intent  of  inserting  it  is  merely  to  de- 
termine a  proportional  limit,  which  the  number  of  the  House  of 
Eepresentatives  shall  not  exceed.  This  is  as  well  satisfied  by 
resorting  to  the  collective,  as  to  the  separate  population  of  the 
respective  States. 

There  is,  therefore,  nothing  in  the  last  recited  clause  to  con- 
trol or  direct  the  sense  of  the  first. 

If  it  be  said  that  the  further  process  which  apportions  the  re- 
sidue among  the  States  having  the  greatest  remainders,  is  the 
circumstance  that  renders  the  bill  unconstitutional,  because  it 
renders  the  representation  not  strictly  according  to  the  respective 
numbers  of  the  States,  it  may  be  answered  that  this  is  but  a  ne- 
cessary consequence  of  the  first  principle. 

As  there  would  commonly  be  left,  by  the  first  process,  an  un- 
apportioned  residue  of  the  total  number  to  be  apportioned,  it  is 
of  necessity  that  that  residue  should  be  distributed  among  the 
several  States  by  some  rule,  and  none  more  equal  or  defensible 
can  be  found  than  that  of  giving  a  preference  to  the  greatest  re- 
mainders. 

If  this  makes  the  apportionment  not  mathematically  "accord- 
ing to  the  respective  numbers  of  the  several  States,"  so  neither 
would  the  opposite  principle  of  construction. 

Fractions,  more  or  less  great,  would,  in  this  case  also,  and  in 
a  greater  degree,  prevent  a  conformity  of  the  proportion  of  repre- 
sentatives to  numbers.  The  same  objection  would  lie,  in  this 
respect,  against  both  principles  of  construction,  against  that  in 
the  bill  at  least. 

Upon  the  whole,  then,  the  bill  apportions  the  representatives 
among  the  several  States,  according  to  their  respective  numbers ; 


jEt.35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  209 

so  that  the  number  of  representatives  does  not  exceed  one  for  every 
30,000  persons,  each  State  having  at  least  one  member.  It  there- 
fore performs  every  requisition  of  the  Constitution ;  and  it  will 
not  be  denied  that  it  performs  this  in  the  manner  most  consistent 
with  equality. 

There  appears,  therefore,  no  room  to  say  that  the  bill  is  un- 
constitutional, though  there  may  be  another  construction  of 
which  the  Constitution  is  capable.  In  cases  where  two  construc- 
tions may  reasonably  be  adopted,  and  neither  can  be  pronounced 
inconsistent  with  the  public  good,  it  seems  proper  that  the  legis- 
lative sense  should  prevail.  The  present  appears  to  the  Secretary 
clearly  to  be  such  a  case. 


RANDOLPH   TO  WASHINGTON. 

April  4,  1792. 

The  Attorney-General  of  the  United  States  has  the  honor  of 
reporting  to  the  President  of  the  United  States,  on  the  represen- 
tation bill,  as  follows : — 

The  points  which  involve  the  question  of  constitutionality  are 
three : 

1.  To  ascertain  the  process  by  which  the  bill  fixes  the  total 
number  of  representatives  at  120 ; 

2.  To  ascertain  the  process  by  which  the  bill  distributes  that 
number  among  the  States ;  and 

3.  To  try  both  of  them  by  the  standard  of  the  Constitution. 

The  bill  does  not  announce,  in  terms,  the  principle  of  pro- 
ceeding, either  in  the  establishment  of  the  total  number  of  120,  or 
its  apportionment  among  the  States.  Some  principle,  however,  it 
must  have ;  otherwise,  the  omission  would,  of  itself,  be  glaringly 
unconstitutional,  as  creating  a  precedent  for  leaving  the  number 
of  the  House  of  Eepresentatives,  and  the  distribution  of  that 
number,  at  the  mere  will  of  every  different  Congress.  It  must, 
therefore,  be  sought  by  calculation. 

1.  By  calculation,  then,  it  appears,  that  neither  30,000,  the 
lowest  constitutional  limit,  nor  any  higher  number,  if  assumed  as 
D  14 


210  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

the  divisor  of  the  federal  numbers  in  each  State,  separately  con- 
sidered, will  produce  to  each  State  such  a  number  of  representa- 
tives, as,  when  added  together,  shall  amount  to  120. 

We  then  naturally  turn  to  the  aggregate  federal  number  of 
the  United  States,  to  wit,  3,615,825 ;  and  the  only  divisor  which 
can  draw  120  members  from  that  number,  is  30,000. 

This,  too,  is  the  only  mode  by  which  120  members  can  be 
obtained  by  any  act  of  arithmetic. 

2.  One  hundred  and  twenty  members  are,  in  the  next  place, 
to  be  distributed. 

Here,  too,  we  are  informed,  by  calculation,  that  no  common 
divisor,  applied  to  the  federal  number  in  each  State,  will  allot  so 
many  members  as  the  bill  prescribes.  Thirty  thousand  will  fail 
with  respect  to  eight  out  of  fifteen  States :  a  greater  number,  how 
little  soever  above  30,000,  will  at  least  be  as  far  from  that  result ; 
and  every  number  beyond  a  certain  point  would  be  farther  and 
farther  still.  The  other  seven  States  have  the  exact  num- 
ber of  representatives  which  arises  from  a  division  of  their  fede- 
ral numbers  by  30,000.  But  as  30,000,  taken  as  the  divisor  of 
the  federal  population  in  each  State,  give  one  hundred  and 
twelve  members ;  as  the  remainder  of  the  120  members  is  eight; 
and  to  each  of  the  eight  States  having  the  highest  fractions  one 
member  is  added,  it  may  be  safely  concluded  that  Congress  dis- 
tributed the  120  members  in  this  form. 

3.  In  trying  this  double  process  by  the  standard  of  the 
Constitution,  we  must  first  determine  whether  Congress  were  at 
liberty  to  fix  the  total  number  of  representatives,  by  dividing 
the  aggregate  federal  population  of  the  United  States,  instead  of 
the  separate  federal  population  of  each  State. 

The  following  passages  in  the  Constitution  are  material  on 
this  head : — 

"  [Representatives  and  direct  taxes  shall  be  apportioned  among 
the  several  States  according  to  their  respective  numbers." 

"  The  number  of  representatives  shall  not  exceed  one  for 
every  30,000,  but  each  State  shall  have  at  least  one  representa- 
tive; and,  until  such  enumeration  shall  be  made,  the  State  of 
New  Hampshire  shall  be  entitled  to  choose  three,"  &c. 


jEt.35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  211 

Hence  it  is  argued,  that,  as  in  laying  direct  taxes  the  sum 
must  be  resolved  upon  before  it  can  be  apportioned,  so  a  number 
of  representatives  must  be  established  before  they  can  be  appor- 
tioned ;  and  this  number  can  be  procured  only  from  the  aggre- 
gate federal  population. 

It  is  not  doubted  that  this  number  must  be  the  effect  of  some 
rule ;  and,  in  fact,  we  find  the  Constitution  declaring  it  to  be  u accord- 
ing to  their  respective  numbers"  that  is,  the  numbers  of  each  State. 

Let  it  then  be  seen  how  direct  taxes  and  representatives  can  be 
in  proportion  to  numbers;  for,  "proportion"  and  "  apportion"  may 
be  accepted,  on  this  occasion,  as  synonymous.  Direct  taxes  may 
be  apportioned  according  to  numbers  by  the  rule  of  three,  thus : 
as  the  whole  population  is  to  the  sum  required,  so  is  a  particular 
population  of  a  State  to  the  sum  to  be  paid  by  that  State. 
Through  this  means,  every  individual  enters  into  the  estimate, 
and  not  a  cent  is  lost.  But  it  is  not  so  with  representatives.  For, 
with  what  propriety  can  it  be  stated  with  respect  to  representa- 
tives, in  a  manner  analogous  to  direct  taxes  ?  Can  it  be  said,  as 
the  whole  federal  population  is  to  the  whole  number  of  represent- 
atives, so  is  the  particular  number  of  representatives  to  the 
particular  federal  population  of  each  State?  It  cannot  be  so 
contended,  for  two  reasons ;  first,  because,  when  the  inquiry 
itself  is,  what  shall  the  whole  number  of  representatives  be,  it  is 
false  reasoning  to  assume  that  number  as  actually  known  al- 
ready ;  and,  secondly,  because,  as  representation  is  the  deputation 
of  one  man  to  act  for  many,  more  than  one  must  be  combined  in 
the  account  before  a  representative  can  exist.  Of  course,  the 
Constitution  looked  for  a  ratio  as  to  representation,  whereas  it 
computed  individuals  in  taxes ;  that  is,  numbers  shall  govern  in 
both  cases,  but  they  govern  each  subject  according  to  its  nature; 
so  at  least  as  not  to  beget  an  absurdity. 

Could  Congress  increase  the  House  of  Eepresentatives  to  2-10 
members  ?  No.  Why  ?  Because  they  must  not  exceed  one  fo 
thirty  thousand.  What  thirty  thousand  ?  Of  the  respective  num- 
bers ;  namely,  of  each  State.  If  aggregate  or  collective  numbers 
had  been  contemplated,  how  much  easier  would  it  have  been, 
and  how  much  more  proper,  to  have  substituted  other  words 


212  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

which,  were  so  obviously  at  hand  ?  It  seems  to  have  been  de- 
signed to  make  up  the  total  number  of  representatives  just  as  a 
stock  in  trade  is  created :  each  State  is  a  contributor  to  it ;  and 
the  contributors,  added  together,  furnish  the  whole.  In  this  way, 
the  first  House  of  Eepresentatives  is  composed  under  the  Consti- 
tution :  New  Hampshire  is  to  have  three,  &c. 

Why  are  States  to  have  any  representatives,  as  States,  if  the 
aggregate  federal  population  is  to  decide  the  number  ?  It  ought 
rather  to  have  been  said  in  the  Constitution  that  the  boundaries 
of  the  States  should  not  be  an  obstacle ;  but  that  the  ratio  should 
yield  a  member,  wherever  the  numbers  should  be  found  to  fill 
up  that  ratio.  This  never  was  intended.  Are  not  the  States 
distinct  in  their  rights  of  election?  Can  the  numbers  of  one 
county,  even  in  the  same  State,  assist  another  county  in  pro- 
curing a  member?  Is  it  not  repugnant  to  the  spirit  of  the  Con- 
stitution to  tack  the  numbers  of  one  State  to  those  of  another, 
for  the  purpose  of  procuring  a  member  ?  Is  it  not  unexampled, 
that  New-York  should,  with  its  numbers,  contribute  towards  a 
member  for  New  Jersey,  when  an  elector  of  the  former  can  have 
no  fellow-interest  or  sympathy  with  the  electors  of  the  latter; 
and,  without  a  freehold  in  the  latter,  would  probably  be  debarred 
of  a  suffrage  therein  ? 

The  fractions,  it  is  true,  are  very  large  in  many  of  the  States ; 
but  such  fractions  are  familiar  in  practice.  In  some  States,  repre- 
sentatives are  according  to  a  certain  ratio  of  population ;  but  the 
number  above  one  integer,  and  not  equal  to  another,  has  always 
been  laid  aside.  In  the  management,  too,  of  the  National  Bank, 
many  shares  between  two  numbers  constituting  a  vote,  are  unre- 
spected.  If  the  fraction  of  one  State  can  raise  a  member  for 
another,  it  may  often  happen  that  the  balance,  which  the  States 
wish  to  preserve  among  themselves,  may  be  destroyed  unexpect- 
edly by  their  own  act.  What  would  the  sensations  of  South 
Carolina  be,  if  her  blacks  should  co-operate  in  giving  a  member 
to  Connecticut? 

It  is  remarkable  that  most  of  the  advocates  of  the  bill  do 
themselves  admit  that  the  Constitution  is  susceptible  of  the  con- 
struction above  mentioned,  as  well  as  of  their  own. 


JEt.35.]  cabinet    papers.  213 

The  argument  deduced  from  the  amendment  proposed  to  the 
Constitution  on  the  subject  of  representation,  might  be  shown  to 
be  inapplicable,  even  if  it  were  admissible.  But  it  is  not  admis- 
sible ;  because  the  amendment  has  not,  as  yet,  become  the  sense 
of  the  United  States.  It  is  inapplicable.  For  although  it  has 
been  observed,  that,  without  recurring  to  the  aggregate  federal 
population,  it  might  happen  that  three  millions  of  persons  would 
not  give  one  hundred  members ;  the  answer  is  full  as  strong,  to 
reply,  that  Congress  would  not  be  called  upon  to  have  one  hun- 
dred members,  unless  one  hundred  times  30,000  should  be 
contained  in  the  separate  federal  populations  of  the  several 
States.     Indeed,  the  amendment  proves  nothing  either  way. 

In  short,  it  is  wonderful  that,  after  admitting  the  necessity  of 
applying  some  ratio,  and  after  perceiving  that  the  application  of 
that  ratio  to  the  aggregate  federal  population  will  produce  such 
a  number  of  representatives  as  cannot  be  distributed  by  any 
ratio  whatever,  the  friends  to  the  bill  should  not  have  abandoned 
it  upon  their  own  principles. 

Here  lies  the  radical  objection,  and  the  violation  of  the  Con- 
stitution. If  it  be  not  here,  the  Attorney-General  must,  in  can- 
dor, own  that  it  is  nowhere,  in  his  opinion.  For,  if  the  120 
members  can  be  established,  the  subdivision  cannot  be  executed 
in  any  other,  or  in  any  fairer  manner.  The  ratio  of  30,000  is 
carried  through  the  particular,  as  well  as  the  aggregate  federal 
population,  as  far  as  it  can ;  and  the  remaining  eight  members 
are  distributed  equitably. 

This  is  the  best  judgment,  therefore,  which  the  Attorney- 
General  has  been  able  to  form  without  longer  premeditation. 
Whether  the  reasoning  on  the  opposite  side  ought  to  weigh 
against  the  interposition  of  a  negative,  it  is  not  for  him  to  decide. 

Edm.  Eandolph. 


Recapitulation  by  Jefferson. 

The  opinion  of  the  Secretary  of  State  declares  the  bill  uncon- 
stitutional ;  for  it  does  not  apportion  the  representatives  among 
the  States,  strictly,  according  to  their  numbers. 


214  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  35. 

It  provides  for  fractions  which  the  Constitution  never  in- 
tended. 

It  leaves  the  determination  of  apportioning  the  representatives 
without  any  fixed  principle,  which  may  hereafter  be  productive 
of  great  evil;  and  admits  of  caballing  and  bargaining  on  the 
subject. 

The  bill  carried  by  a  small  majority — one  in  the  Senate,  and 
two  in  the  House. 

The  whole  of  both  Houses  admit  that  the  Constitution  will 
bear  either  to  have  the  bill  in  its  present  state,  or  to  have  one  for 
30,000  in  each  State,  leaving  the  fractions.  But  the  minorities 
will  not  admit  the  constitutionality  of  the  present  bill. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  has  not  seen  the  bill ;  but  pre- 
sumes that  the  process  for  forming  the  result  in  the  bill  has  been 
in  a  certain  way,  which  he  mentions. 

Thinks  either  the  division  of  the  aggregate  number  in  the 
United  States  by  80,000,  or  the  particular  number  in  each  State 
by  that  ratio,  would  be  constitutional. 

If  a  direct  tax  should  be  imposed,  the  only  way  of  appor- 
tioning it  among  the  several  States  would  be  that  which  has 
been  pursued  in  the  bill ;  and,  therefore,  it  is  consonant  to  the 
clause  in  the  Constitution  respecting  representation  and  taxation, 

That  there  would  be  a  residue  arising  upon  the  whole,  after 
dividing  the  numbers  in  each  State  by  30,000 ;  and  that  it  is  but 
right  that  the  States  having  the  greatest  fraction  should  receive 
the  benefit  resulting  from  dividing  the  aggregate  number  in  the 
United  States  by  30,000. 

The  bill  performs  every  requisite  in  the  Constitution,  in  the 
manner  most  consistent  with  equality. 

Although  the  bill  cannot  be  said  to  be  unconstitutional,  yet 
there  may  be  another  construction  of  which  the  Constitution  is 
capable.  But  where  it  may  be  taken  in  either  sense,  it  is  best 
to  follow  the  legislative  opinion. 

The  Secretary  of  War. 
It  has  been  said  that  the  construction  of  the  bill  may  be 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  215 

deemed  within  the  letter  as  well  as  the  spirit  of  the  Constitution. 
If  that  is  the  case,  the  assent  of  the  President  of  the  United 
States  is  to  be  governed  by  the  political  equity  of  the  measure. 

He  approves  the  bill  upon  the  principle  of  its  giving  a  repre- 
sentation to  the  largest  fractions. 

The  constitutionality  of  the  bill  being  only  doubted,  not 
proved,  it  would  appear  a  delicate  measure  for  the  President  to 
decide  against  the  sense  of  the  legislature. 

The  Attorney-  General  of  the  United  States. 

The  bill  does  not  express  the  principle  or  rule  by  which  the 
rumber  of  representatives  is  ascertained ;  it  is,  therefore,  to  be 
sought  by  calculation,  which  makes  one  to  30,000,  taking  the 
whole  number  in  the  United  States.  But  it  will  be  found,  that, 
dividing  the  number  in  each  State  by  30,000,  there  will  be  found 
eight  States  that  will  have  each  a  member  less  than  they  now 
have,  if  divided  according  to  the  numbers  in  the  States  respec- 
tively- 

The  Constitution  looks  for  a  ratio  in  representation.  But  it 
computed  individuals  as  to  taxes. 

The  bill  destroys  the  distinction  of  States ;  for  the  ratio 
yields  to  numbers. 

The  advocates  of  the  bill  admit  that  the  Constitution  is  sus- 
ceptible of  another  construction,  as  well  as  of  theirs. 

Such  a  ratio  is  applied  to  the  aggregate  population  of  the 
United  States  as  produces  a  number  that  cannot  be  distributed 
by  any  ratio  whatever ;  and,  in  this,  lays  the  unconstitutionality 
of  the  bill. 


JEFFERSON"  TO  HAMILTON. 


April  10th,  1792. 
If  the  President  should  enter  into  a  provisional  convention 
with  the  government  of  Algiers  for  a  sum  not  exceeding  forty 


216  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [&T.  35. 

thousand  dollars,  will  the  Senate  advise  and  consent  to  its  ratifi- 
cation, the  government  of  Algiers  being  made  clearly  to  under- 
stand that  we  are  not  to  be  bound  by  the  treaty  until  it  shall  be 
ratified  ? 

If  this  sum  appears  too  high,  what  lower  limit  would  the 
Senate  approve  ? 

If  the  President  should  enter  into  a  provisional  treaty  of 
peace  with  the  government  of  Algiers  at  an  expense  not  exceed- 
ing dollars  to  be  paid  on  the  ratification,  and  dol- 
lars payable  annually  afterwards,  during  its  continuance,  will  the 
Senate  advise  and  consent  to  the  ratification,  the  government  cf 
Algiers  being  made  clearly  to  understand  that  we  are  not  to  be 
bound  by  the  treaty  until  it  shall  be  ratified  ? 

If  these  sums  appear  too  high,  what  lower  limit  would  the 
Senate  approve  ? 


HAMILTON  TO  SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  April  10th,  1792. 

Sir: 

My  last  letter  to  you  was  of  the  2d  instant. 

It  is  proper  that  you  be  informed  that  a  sum  of  eight  thou- 
sand three  hundred  and  twenty-five  dollars  was  paid  here,  on 
application  of  M.  de  Tern  ant,  the  Minister  of  France,  to  himself, 
and  twenty -two  thousand  dollars  to  M.  de  la  Forest,  the  Vice- 
Consul-General,  on  the  21st  of  February  last,  and  the  sum  of  one 
hundred  thousand  dollars  on  the  12th  of  March.  Three  further 
payments,  of  one  hundred  thousand  dollars  each,  are  engaged 
to  be  made  here,  in  like  manner,  on  the  1st  of  June,  on  the  1st 
of  September,  and  on  the  1st  of  December,  next,  or  before,  if 
convenient.  All  these  are  payments  on  account  of  the  debt  due 
to  France. 

P.  S.  An  account  against  the  government  of  France  has 
been  settled  at  the  treasury,  for  arms,  ammunition,  &c,  amount- 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  217 

ing  to  eight  thousand  nine  hundred  and  sixty-two  dollars,  of 
which  a  certified  copy  is  here  inclosed.  This  is  also  on  account 
of  the  debt  due  to  France. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

April  12th,  1792. 
The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  has  the  honor  to  communi- 
cate to  the  President  a  resolution  of  the  trustees  of  the  sinking 
fund,  as  of  this  morning.  A  particular  piece  of  urgent  business 
prevents  him  personally  waiting  upon  the  President  with  it.  It 
is  very  much  to  be  desired  that  the  resolution  may  receive  the 
immediate  decision  of  the  President.  It  is  upon  the  same  prin- 
ciples with  the  last. 


HAMILTON  TO   SHOET. 

Treasury  Department,  April  16th,  1792. 

Sir: 

The  fluctuation  of  the  price  of  the  stocks  in  the  United 
States,  is  a  circumstance  that  cannot  have  failed  to  attract  your 
attention,  nor  to  excite  a  temporary  feeling  in  the  minds  of 
foreigners.  Though  I  doubt  not  it  will  be  well  explained  by 
the  agents  of  those  citizens  of  other  countries  who  have  vested 
their  moneys  in  our  funds,  I  think  it  necessary  that  some  ideas 
should  be  communicated  to  you,  on  which  you  can  found  a  true 
opinion,  either  for  your  own  satisfaction  or  that  of  persons 
interested  in  our  national  welfare,  with  whom  you  may  have 
occasion  to  confer. 

The  moderate  size  of  the  domestic  debt  of  the  United  States 
appears  to  have  created  the  most  intemperate  ideas  of  specula- 
tion in  the  minds  of  a  very  few  persons,  whose  natural  ardor 


218  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^i.  35. 

had  been  increased  by  great  success  in  some  of  the  early  stages 
of  the  melioration  of  the  market  value  of  the  stock.  To  com- 
binations of  private  capitals  thus  acquired  or  increased,  sums  of 
specie,  obtained  as  well  at  the  most  extravagant  rates  of  pre- 
mium as  at  common  interest,  were  added,  and  to  these  were 
joined  purchases  of  stock  on  credits,  for  various  terms,  so  as  to 
create  a  delusive  confidence  that  the  concentration  of  so  much 
stock  in  a  few  hands  would  secure  a  very  high  market  rate. 
This  expectation  was  increased  by  comparing  the  market  values 
of  the  several  species  of  our  funds  with  those  of  the  same  species 
of  stock  in  Great  Britain,  the  United  Netherlands,  and  other 
parts  of  Europe,  without  due  allowance  for  the  deductions  which 
should  have  been  made  on  account  of  the  great  difference  in  the 
value  of  money,  and  the  objections  arising  from  our  distance 
from  those  European  money-holders  whose  capitals  they  ex- 
pected to  attract,  and  other  relative  circumstances.  At  the  time 
when  many  heavy  engagements  thus  formed  were  becoming  due, 
some  contentions  among  the  dealers  in,  and  proprietors  of,  the 
debt,  took  place,  and  counter-combinations  were  formed  to 
render  the  crisis  of  payment  and  speculation  as  inconvenient 
and  disadvantageous  as  possible.  By  these  means  those  eventual 
contracts,  it  was  probably  hoped,  could  be  more  cheaply  com- 
plied with ;  and,  moreover,  that  a  reduced  market  would  afford 
further  opportunities  of  beneficial  speculation.  The  extreme 
indiscretion  of  the  first  mentioned  speculations,  and  the  distress 
which,  it  was  manifest,  they  must  produce,  excited  perhaps  and 
animated  the  movements  of  the  other  party,  and  brought  on  a 
scene  of  private  distress  for  money,  both  artificial  and  real, 
which  probably  has  not  been  equalled  in  this  country.  It  hap- 
pened in  the  winter  season,  when  the  influx  of  cash  articles  of 
trade,  as  returns  from  abroad,  is  nearly  suspended,  and  when 
quantities  of  specie  were  sent  from  the  sea-ports  to  the  interior 
country,  for  the  purchase  of  produce  to  supply  the  demand  for 
the  spring  exportation. 

The  banks,  who  can  always  perceive  the  approach  of  these 
things,  were  influenced  to  limit  their  operations,  and  particularly 
the  Bank  of  the  United  States,  which  was  then  preparing  for  the 


jEt.  35.]  cabinet   papers.  219 

opening  of  its  branches,  or  offices  of  discount  and  deposit,  in 
Boston,  New- York,  Baltimore,  and  Charleston. 

The  United  States,  you  would  presume,  could  not  be  insensi- 
ble of  so  fit  a  moment  to  make  purchases  of  the  public  stock,  and 
the  Treasurer  was  accordingly  authorized  to  buy ;  but,  though  the 
appearances  of  private  distress  for  money  were  so  great,  he  could 
not  obtain  for  several  days  the  sum  of  fifty  thousand  dollars,  at 
the  highest  rates  at  which  the  public  purchases  had  before  been 
made.  The  holders  who  were  free  from  engagements  were  averse 
to  selling ;  the  principal  persons  who  were  under  engagements 
they  could  not  comply  with,  were  obliged  or  disposed  to  place 
their  effects  in  the  hands  of  their  creditors,  who  did  not  choose 
to  add  to  their  own  disappointments  of  great  profits  actual  losses 
by  unseasonable  sales  of  the  bankrupts'  property.  The  stock  in 
the  market,  therefore,  was  really  made  scarce.  A  quarter's  in- 
terest has  just  been  paid.  Some  of  the  cautious  moneyed  people 
have  begun  to  purchase.  The  specie  is  returning  from  the  coun- 
try, and  the  heaviest  private  engagements  having  now  fallen  due, 
the  declension  of  stock  may  be  considered  as  arrested.  There  is 
little  doubt  that  the  difficulty  for  money  among  the  dealers  in 
the  debt  will  be  at  no  time  so  great  as  it  has  been,  after  the 
present  week,  and  that  changes  of  a  favorable  complexion  are  to 
be  confidently  expected ;  at  first  moderate,  perhaps,  afterwards 
such  as  will  carry  the  funds  up  to  their  due  value. 

Should  you  be  of  opinion  that  the  state  of  things  in  France 
will  render  some  intimation  of  these  events  useful  there,  you  will 
be  good  enough  to  communicate  them  to  Mr.  Morris,  our  minis- 
ter at  that  court. 


HAMILTON  TO   SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  May  7,  1792. 


Sir: 

The  President  having  ratified  the  three  last  loans,  namely, 
one  for  six  millions  of  florins,  at  five  per  cent,  interest ;  one  of 


220  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [.tor.  35. 

three  millions,  at  four  per  cent. ;  and  that  which  has  been  nego- 
tiated at  Antwerp ;  I  herewith  transmit  you  the  instrument  of 
ratification  concerning  the  latter.  The  two  former  I  have 
thought  best  to  inclose  directly  to  the  commissioners  in  Amster- 
dam, under  an  impression  that  this  at  the  time  of  its  arrival  may 
possibly  not  find  you  at  the  Hague. 


HAMILTON  TO   WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  May  9,  1792. 

Sir: 

I  have  the  honor  to  send  herewith  an  adjustment  at  the  treas- 
ury concerning  the  quantity  of  acres  in  warrants  for  army  bounty 
rights,  which  ought  to  be  deemed  an  equivalent  for  the  214,285 
acres  of  land  mentioned  in  the  second  enacting  clause  of  the  act 
entitled  "  An  act  authorizing  the  grant  and  conveyance  of  cer- 
tain lands  to  the  Ohio  Company  of  Associates ;"  and  a  certificate 
of  the  delivery  of  the  requisite  quantity  of  warrants  in  conformity 
to  that  adjustment. 

It  is  with  regret  I  find  myself  required  by  law  to  discharge 
an  official  duty  in  a  case  in  which  I  happen  to  be  interested  as  a 
party,  and  which  is  capable  of  being  regulated  by  different  con- 
structions. 

Thus  circumstanced,  I  have  conceived  it  proper  to  repose 
myself  on  the  judgment  of  others,  and  having  referred  the  matter 
to  the  accounting  officers  of  the  treasury,  with  the  opinion  of  the 
Attorney-General,  which  was  previously  obtained,  I  have  gov- 
erned myself  by  the  determination  of  those  officers. 

I.  submit  it,  nevertheless,  to  the  President,  whether  it  will  not 
be  advisable  to  require  as  a  condition  to  the  issuing  of  the  grant, 
that  the  parties  give  bond  to  pay  any  deficiency  which  there  may 
be  in  the  quantity  of  warrants  delivered,  if  the  legislature,  at  the 
ensuing  session,  shall  decide  that  the  construction  which  has  been 
adopted  is  not  the  true  one,  or  to  surrender  the  letters  patent  for 
the  tract  in  question. 


JSt.35.]  cabinet    papers.  221 


HAMILTON  TO  SHOKT. 

Treasury  Department,  June  14,  1792. 

Sir: 

Your  two  letters  of  the  26th  of  January  and  24th  of  March 
have  come  to  hand  since  mine  to  you  of  the  7th  of  May. 

For  an  answer  to  the  first,  I  believe  I  need  do  nothing  more 
than  refer  you  to  former  communications.  On  the  latter  some 
observations  arise. 

You  will  consider  any  suggestions  which  you  may  find  in  my 
letters  concerning  a  rule  for  adjusting  the  value  of  the  payments 
to  France  rather  as  hints  than  instructions.  I  must,  however, 
repeat  my  wish  that  the  point  may  be  now  settled.  If  left  for 
future  liquidation,  and  brought  to  the  seat  of  our  government, 
considerations  may  be  pressed,  which  may  embarrass  a  proper 
adjustment  of  the  matter,  though  foreign  to  those  which  ought 
really  to  govern  in  such  a  case.  There  can  be  no  juncture  more 
favorable  than  the  present  for  placing  the  affair  upon  an  eligible 
footing. 

The  management  of  this  matter,  as  well  as  of  every  other 
which  may  concern  the  reimbursement  to  France,  remains  with 
you.     If,  in  compliance  with  official  usages,  Mr.  Morris's  instru- 
mentality should  be  requisite,  he  will  be  instructed  to  co-operate. 
I  shall  learn  with  pleasure  that  the  operation  which  you  were 
meditating  with  Boyed  and  Keir  has  been  carried  into  execution. 
That  which  you  state  as  the  only  objection  to  it  would  not,  un- 
der existing  circumstances,  be  of  much  weight.     The  pecuniary 
ability,  too,  of  the  parties  and  their  connections,  would  be  a  ma- 
terial security   against  some   of  the  principal  inconveniences, 
which  were  to  be  apprehended  from  the  accumulation  in  ques- 
tion.    And,  by  creating  another  moneyed  combination  interested 
in  the  funds  of  the  country,  it  may  even,  in  some  respects,  tend 
to  render  its  credit  less  dependent  on  the  speculations  and  resour- 
ces of  a  small  number  of  individuals. 

It  will,  however,  be  a  very  valuable  ingredient  in  the  arrange- 
ment, if  it  shall  embrace  an  adjustment  of  the  indemnification  to 


222  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  35. 

France  for  the  depreciation  of  the  assignats.  You  will  perceive 
that  I  am  solicitous  this  point  should,  in  no  event,  remain  unde* 
termined. 

Your  anxiety  on  the  subject,  which  closes  your  letter,  is  na- 
tural, but  not  necessary.  The  situation  you  have  been  in  is  pro- 
perly appreciated ;  and  that  of  your  successor  will  be  so  likewise. 
You  need  not  apprehend  misconstruction  either  on  the  part  of 
the  government  or  of  the  community. 

Accept  my  thanks  for  the  continuance  of  your  attention  to 
the  course  of  the  Baltic  navigation,  and  believe  me  always  to  be, 
with  sentiments  of  real  consideration  and  esteem,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  June  19th,  1792. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  has  the  honor  to  submit  to  the 
President  of  the  United  States  a  provisional  contract  entered  into 
between  the  superintendent  of  the  Delaware  light-house  and  Abra- 
ham Hargis,  for  sinking  a  well  for  the  accommodation  of  that 
light-house,  together  with  a  Eeport  of  the  Commissioner  of  the 
Eevenue,  on  the  subject,  and  some  explanatory  statements. 

The  Secretary  has  delayed  this  communication,  under  an  im- 
pression that  the  allowance  was  excessive,  and  with  a  hope  that 
something  better  might  be  done ;  but  reputable  workmen  who 
have  been  consulted,  appear  to  be  of  opinion  that  the  charge  is 
not  unreasonable,  and  no  other  person  has  been  found  disposed 
to  undertake  at  a  lower  rate.  More  from  the  latter  circumstance, 
than  from  a  conviction  that  the  terms  are  not  less  moderate  than 
they  ought  to  be,  the  contract  is  now  submitted.  The  approba- 
tion of  it  may  be  qualified  by  a  reservation,  that  if  all  the  ma- 
terial mentioned  in  the  estimate  B,  are  not  used  on  the  work,  a 
proportional  deduction  shall  be  made  from  the  sum  stipulated. 
This,  it  is  represented,  will  be  agreed  to  by  Mr.  Hargis. 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  223 


HAMILTON  TO  SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  June  23d,  1792. 

Sir: 

After  closing  my  letter  to  you  of  the  14th  instant,  the  Comp- 
troller, to  whom  I  had  submitted  for  examination  the  statement 
of  the  French  treasury  transmitted  by  you,  made  some  commu- 
nications to  me  on  that  subject,  of  which  copies  are  here  inclosed 
for  your  information. 

My  own  observations  upon  it  must  necessarily  be  reserved 
for  another  opportunity,  as  Mr.  Pinkney,  who  will  take  charge 
of  my  letters,  is  to  embark  for  London  to-day. 


WOLCOTT  TO  HAMILTON. 
Treasury  Department,  Comptroller's  Office,  June  22d,  1792, 

Sir: 

I  have  the  honor  to  inclose  for  your  inspectioD  a  statement  of 
the  loans  received  by  the  United  States  from  the  government  of 
France,  with  a  calculation  of  the  interest  due  thereon  to  the  first 
day  of  January,  1792.  In  this  statement  no  notice  is  taken  of 
the  advances  made  at  the  treasury  of  the  United  States,  or  of 
the  remittances  by  the  Dutch  Commissioners  on  account  of  said 
loans. 

In  the  account  transmitted  by  Mr.  Short,  I  observe  that  the 
following  charges  are  made,  for  advances  to  the  United  States, 
which,  it  is  said,  the  French  government  has  assumed  to  dis- 
charge : 


224  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  35. 

£.        s.  d. 

By  the  Directors  of  the  Powder  Magazines,    196,481  15  3 

"     "    Department  of  War,         -         -         1,052,345  11  6 
"     "    Administration   for    clothing    the 

Troops,  -        -        -  134,065     7  6 

"     "    Farmers  General,         -        -        -       846,770  14  5 
And  for  interest  on  the  above  mentioned 
sums,  from  Sept.  3,  1783,  to  Dec.  31, 

1791,  at  five  per  cent.,  -        -  928,095     0  0 


Amounting  to,  Livres  3,157,758  00     0 

On  these  charges  I  think  it  proper  to  observe,  that  the  gov- 
ernment of  France  retained  the  sum  of  five  millions  of  livres 
out  of  the  loan  of  ten  millions,  to  pay  for  certain  articles  of 
clothing  and  military  stores  which  were  ordered  by  Col.  Laurens 
for  the  use  of  the  United  States.  It  will  appear  from  the  in- 
closed account,  which  has  been  extracted  from  the  books  of 
Thomas  Barclay,  Commissioner  of  Foreign  Accounts,  that  the 
French  government  has  already  received  credit  for  the  two  first 
mentioned  sums,  and  that  the  third  is  a  balance  appearing  due 
to  the  French  government,  on  account  of  the  excess  of  the  sup- 
plies received  above  the  five  millions  which  were  retained  out  of 
the  loan. 

To  the  claim  for  this  balance  of  £134,065,  the  United  States 
have,  however,  a  just  right  to  oppose  a  much  more  considerable 
demand,  which  remains  to  be  liquidated  between  the  two  gov- 
ernments, for  supplies  furnished  to  the  marine  of  France,  under 
the  agency  of  John  Holker,  Esq.,  late  Consul-General. 

It  is  much  to  be  desired  that  some  arrangement  for  effecting 
a  settlement  should  be  soon  concerted ;  and,  from  the  nature  of 
the  claim,  and  the  evidence  by  which  it  is  to  be  supported,  it  is 
my  opinion  that  it  ought  to  be  adjusted  in  this  country. 

I  had  the  honor  to  transmit  to  you,  on  the  29th  of  March, 
sundry  documents  relating  to  the  claim  of  the  Farmers  General ; 
as  the  balance  of  their  account  now  appears  to  have  been  as. 
sumed  by  the  French  government,  it  appears  to  be  necessary  to 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  225 

ascertain  whether  the  loan  of  the  Farmers  General  was  not  com- 
prehended as  a  part  of  the  aids  granted  before  the  treaty  of 
February,  1778 ;  and,  if  not  so  comprehended,  to  demand  a  dis- 
closure of  the  person  to  whom  one  million  of  livres,  which  has 
not  been  brought  to  the  credit  of  the  United  States,  was  paid. 
I  have  the  honor  to  be,  with  the  greatest  respect,  &c. 

"N.  B.  It  is  supposed  that  the  claim  for  supplies  furnished  to 
the  marine  of  France,  may  amount  to  about  two  hundred  thou- 
sand dollars. 


HAMILTON  TO  SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  June  30th,  1792. 

Sir: 

I  have  before  me  your  letter  of  the  2 2d  of  April  last. 

As  I  doubt  not  the  details  of  the  projected  arrangement  will 
have  sufficient  latitude,  as  to  time,  to  avoid  embarrassment  to  the 
treasury,  it  cannot  but  be  satisfactory. 

A  bill  has  been  drawn  in  favor  of  the  Secretary  of  State,  on 
our  Commissioners,  for  one  hundred  and  twenty-three  thousand 
seven  hundred  and  fifty  guilders,  which,  together  with  the  five 
hundred  thousand,  of  which  you  were  advised  by  my  letter  of 
the  2d  of  April  last,  will  constitute  part  of  the  fund  which  may 
be  reserved  for  the  arrangement  in  question.  I  shall  forbear  any 
further  drafts  till  I  am  advised  of  its  completion. 

You  will  no  doubt  take  care  to  retain  a  competent  sum  for  the 
payment  of  the  interest  which  shall  be  payable  during  the  present 
year  on  the  Dutch  and  Antwerp  loans. 

D  15 


226  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  35. 

HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  July  22d,  1792. 

Sir: 

I  wrote  to  you  on  Monday  last,  transmitting  a  resolution  of 
the  Commissioners  of  the  Sinking  Fund.  Nothing  in  the  way  of 
public  business  requiring  your  attention  has  since  occurred. 

There  is  a  matter  I  beg  leave  to  mention  to  you  confidentially, 
in  which  your  interposition,  if  you  deem  it  advisable,  may  have 
a  good  effect. 

I  have  long  had  it  at  heart  that  some  good  system  of  regula- 
tions for  the  forwarding  supplies  to  the  army,  issuing  them  there 
and  accounting  for  them  to  the  department  of  war,  should  be  estab- 
lished. On  conversing  with  the  Secretary  at  War,  I  do  not  find 
that  any  such  now  exists :  nor  have  the  intimations  I  have  taken 
the  liberty  to  give  on  the  subject,  though  perfectly  well  received, 
hitherto  produced  the  desired  effect.  The  utility  of  the  thing 
does  not  seem  to  be  as  strongly  impressed  on  the  mind  of  the 
Secretary  at  War  as  it  is  on  mine. 

It  has  occurred  to  me  that  if  you  should  think  fit  to  call  by 
letter  upon  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  and  the  Secretary  at 
War  to  report  to  you  the  system  and  regulations  under  which  the 
procuring,  issuing  and  accounting  for  supplies  to  the  army  is  con- 
ducted, it  would  produce  what  appears  to  be  now  wanting.  I 
submit  the  idea  accordingly. 

With  the  most  perfect  respect  and  truest  attachment,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  July  25th,  1792. 

Sir: 

Your  letters  of  the  25th  of  April  and  14th  of  May  have 
duly  reached  me;  since  the  receipt  of  that  of  the  22 d  of  April, 
which  was  acknowledged  in  mine  of  the  80th  of  June. 

In  consequence  of  your  letter  of  the  14th  of  May,  I  have 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  227 

directed  drafts  on  the  Commissioners  for  five  hundred  thousand 
guilders,  and,  as  soon  as  these  are  sold,  I  shall  cause  further 
drafts  to  be  made  to  the  extent  of  five  hundred  thousand  guilders 
in  addition  to  the  above  mentioned  five  hundred  thousand.  The 
residue  of  the  moneys  heretofore  announced  to  have  been  bor- 
rowed, will  be  left  subject  to  your  disposition  towards  payment 
of  interest  on  the  Dutch  and  Antwerp  loans,  during  the  present 
year,  and  of  the  debt  due  to  France,  with  the  surplus. 

In  speaking  of  the  interest  on  the  Dutch  and  Antwerp  loans, 
I  wish  to  be  understood  that  I  rely  for  the  payment  of  this  inter- 
est during  the  present  year  on  the  funds  which  are  or  shall  be  in 
the  hands  of  the  Commissioners,  arising  from  loans  that  have 
been  or  may  be  made.  Whether  you  will  leave  unemployed  in 
their  hands  moneys  equivalent  to  the  interest  for  the  entire  year, 
or  will  rely  upon  a  further  loan  to  be  made,  applying  a  greater 
proportion  of  the  moneys  already  obtained  in  payment  to  France, 
ought  to  be  regulated  upon  the  degree  of  certainty  of  effecting 
such  further  loan  on  admissible  terms.  This,  therefore,  is  left  to 
your  discretion. 

The  statements  A  and  B  herewith  transmitted  will  show  you 
the  view  which  I  have  of  the  moneys  that  would  remain  in  the 
hands  of  the  Commissioners  on  the  loans  heretofore  known  to 
have  been  effected,  after  paying  all  the  bills  heretofore  drawn 
and  deducting  the  interest  on  the  Dutch  and  Antwerp  loans  to 
the  end  of  the  present  year;  namely,  2,120,477  guilders  and  15 
stivers.  From  this  sum  you  will  only  have  to  deduct,  to  satisfy 
any  further  disposition  on  my  part,  the  sum  of  five  hundred 
thousand  guilders,  still  intended  to  be  drawn  for. 

This  statement,  however,  ought  not  to  be  acted  upon  by  you 
as  definitively  accurate.  It  will  be  proper  that  you  ascertain  with 
the  Commissioners  with  greater  certainty  what  will  remain  at 
your  disposal. 

Mr.  Morris  must  have  misapprehended  the  tenor  of  the  Secre- 
tary of  State's  letter,  from  which  he  inferred  that  it  was  the 
intention  of  this  government  to  transfer  to  France  the  loss  by 
depreciation  on  the  assign ats.  It  has  been  determined  by  the 
President  that  the  United  States  will  not  take  advantage  of  the 


228  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  35. 

depreciation,   but  will  make   an   equitable   adjustment  of  the 

affair. 

You  observe  that  "  the  rate  of  exchange  and  the  current  difference 
between  specie  and  paper  being  known  here,  (that  is  at  Paris,) 
furnish  the  basis  for  regulating  the  business." 

I  remark  that  much  will  depend  on  the  manner  of  applying 
these  data.  They  may  be  so  applied  as  to  create  a  positive  loss 
to  the  United  States ;  as,  if  the  rate  of  exchange  below  par 
should  be  less  than  the  rate  of  depreciation,  and  the  former 
should  be  added,  the  latter  deducted. 

For  example :  by  a  French  paper  of  the  20th  of  April,  if  I 
understand  it  aright,  exchange  between  Paris  and  Amsterdam 
was  about  36  per  cent,  against  Paris — the  depreciation  of  the 
assignats  about  60  per  cent. 

If,  then,  the  computation  was  made  by  adding  the  rate  of 
exchange,  and  deducting  the  rate  of  depreciation,  there  would 
be  a  loss  upon  every  hundred  guilders  in  Amsterdam,  paid  in 
Paris,  of  45  guilders  and  T6/o  of  a  guilder. 

Thus,  add  to  100  guilders  36  per  cent.,  for  the  rate  of  ex- 
change, the  product  is  .         .         .         .         136  guilders.  ' 

Deduct,  for  depreciation,  60  per  cent,  or    .  81.60 


There  would  remain,         54.40 
as  the  equivalent  for  100  guilders  in  Amsterdam,  which  would 
involve  a  loss  of  45-60  guilders  per  hundred. 

I  take  it  for  granted  that  this  method  of  applying  the  data 
cannot  have  been  contemplated,  as  it  would  throw  upon  the 
United  States  a  heavy  real  loss,  in  consequence  of  the  disorders 
which  exist  in  the  affairs  of  France.  Though  the  United  States 
are  not  disposed  to  take  any  undue  advantage,  they  cannot  be 
supposed  to  be  willing  to  suffer  a  loss. 

You  will  have  perceived,  from  my  letter  of  the  4th  of  June 
last,  that  it  was  the  President's  pleasure  that  your  agency  in  the 
whole  of  the  pecuniary  affairs  originally  committed  to  you,  as  well 
respecting  the  debt  to  France  as  otherwise,  should  continue,  and 
that  Mr.  Morris,  as  representative  of  the  United  States  at  the 
court  of  France,  would  be  instructed  to  co-operate.     I  under- 


jEt.35.]  cabinet    papers.  229 

stand  the  Secretary  of  State  that  the  instruction  has  been  for- 
warded, though  I  feel  full  confidence  that  the  requisite  co- 
operation will  have  been  afforded,  independently  of  any  in- 
struction. 

P.  S.   A  copy  of  the  report  of  the  23d  of  January  last  is  here 
inclosed. 


A. 

A  Statement  of  the  Payments  to  be  made  by  Messrs.  Willink,  Van 
Staphorst  &  Hubbard,  and  of  the  moneys  in  their  hands  on  the 
1st  of  February,  1792. 

The  account  current  of  the  said  date  states  a  balance  due  to  the  United 

States,  of 2,500,220 

On  the  last  three  million  loan  they  received — 

1791,  Dec.  31, 509,000 

1792,  Jan.  31, 701,000 

Remained  to  be  received, 1,790,000 

1,790,000 

3,000,000 


In  the  hands  of  the  Commissioners, 4,290,220 

Payments  to  be  made ; 

Drafts  remaining  unpaid,  as  per  list  B,  .  .  175,044.15 

Jan.  27,  draft  No.  541,  in  favor  of  Thos.  Jefferson,  .  95,947.10 

Apl.  17,  drafts  Nos.  542,  628,  John  Kean,  .  .  500,000 

June  30,  draft  No.  630,  Thos.  Jefferson,     .        .  .  123,750 

July,  drafts  Nos.  631,  715,*  John  Kean,     .        .  .  500,000 


1.394.742.5 


Interest  to  be  paid : 

March  1st,  on  2£  million,  at  5  per  cent.,  .  .  .  125,000 

June  1st,  on  7  million,  at  5  per  cent.,  .  .  .  350.000 

Sept  1st,  on  6  million,  at  6  per  cent.,  .  .  .  300,000 


-2,169.742.5 


Leaving  the  sum  not  disposed  of 2,120,477.15 

John  Meyer,  PI.  Clerk. 
Treasury  Department,  July  25th,  1790. 

*  Some  of  these  drafts  remain  yet  to  be  drawn. 


230 


HAMILTON'S    WORKS. 


[JEt.  35. 


B. 


A  Statement  of  the  Treasury  Drafts  on  the  Commissioners  in  Amster- 
dam^ which  remained  unpaid  on  the  1st  of  February \  1792. 


1791. 

Guilders. 

October  31,  No. 

361,    . 

10.000 

November  2,  Nc 

>.  386,  391—6  drafts 

a  4,000  each, 

2-1.000 

c 

2, 

410,  411—2  drafts 

a  3,000     " 

6,000 

■ 

5, 
'         8, 

425,  426     "      " 
439, 

3,044.15 
918.14.8 

'      io, 

442,  450—9      " 

a  1,000     " 

. 

9,000 

1     io, 

454,  459—6      " 

a  1,000     " 

6,000 

1     io, 

460,  467—8      " 

a  2,000     " 

16,000 

1     io, 

469,  480—12    " 

a  2,000     " 

24,000 

'     io, 

481,492—12    " 

a  3,000     " 

36,000 

1     io, 

500, 

"    3,000 

'     io, 

514, 

1,000 

1     io, 

516, 

1,081.5.8 

'     io, 

519,  522—4,     " 

a  5,000     " 

20,000 

<       10, 

523, 

2,000 

'     io, 

526, 

4,000 

1     io, 

527, 

5,000 

1     io, 

537, 

4,000 

175,044.15 

Treasury  Department,  July  5th.  1790. 


John  Meyer,  PI.  Clerk. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 


(private  and  confidential.) 

Mount  Vernon,  July  29,  1792. 

My  Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  not  yet  received  the  new  regulation  of  allowances  to 
the  surveyors  or  collectors  of  the  duties  on  spirituous  liquors ; — 
but  this  by  the  bye.  My  present  purpose  is  to  write  you  a  letter 
on  a  more  interesting  and  important  subject.  I  shall  do  it  in 
strict  confidence,  and  with  frankness  and  freedom. 


At.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  231 

On  my  way  home,  and  since  my  arrival  here,  I  have  endeav- 
ored to  learn  from  sensible  and  moderate  men,  known  friends  to 
the  government,  the  sentiments  which  are  entertained  of  public 
measures.  These  all  agree  that  the  country  is  prosperous  and 
happy ;  but  they  seem  to  be  alarmed  at  that  system  of  policy, 
and  those  interpretations  of  the  Constitution,  which  have  taken 
place  in  Congress. 

Others,  less  friendly  perhaps  to  the  government,  and  more 
disposed  to  arraign  the  conduct  of  its  officers  (among  whom  may 
be  classed  my  neighbor  and  quondam  friend,  Colonel  M.),  go 
further,  and  enumerate  a  variety  of  matters,  which,  as  well  as  I 
can  recollect,  may  be  adduced  under  the  following  heads,  viz  : — 

First. — That  the  public  debt  is  greater  than  we  can  possibly 
pay  before  other  causes  of  adding  new  debt  to  it  will  occur ;  and 
that  this  has  been  artificially  created  by  adding  together  the 
whole  amount  of  the  debtor  and  creditor  sides  of  the  accounts, 
instead  of  taking  only  their  balances,  which  could  have  been  paid 
off  in  a  short  time. 

Second. — That  this  accumulation  of  debt  has  taken  for  ever 
out  of  our  power  those  easy  sources  of  revenue  which,  applied 
to  the  ordinary  necessities  and  exigencies  of  government,  would 
have  animated  them  habitually,  and  covered  us  from  habitual 
murmurings  against  taxes  and  tax-gatherers ;  referring  extraordi- 
nary calls  for  extraordinary  occasions,  would  animate  the  people 
to  meet  them. 

Third. — That  the  calls  for  money  have  been  no  greater 
than  we  must  generally  expect,  for  the  same  or  equivalent  exi- 
gencies ;  yet  we  are  already  obliged  to  strain  the  impost  till  it 
produces  clamor,  and  will  produce  evasion,  and  war  on  our  citi- 
zens to  collect  it,  and  even  to  resort  to  an  excise  law,  of  odious 
character  with  the  people ;  partial  in  its  operation  ;  unproductive 
unless  enforced  by  arbitrary  and  vexatious  means,  and  commit- 
ting the  authority  of  the  government,  in  parts  where  resistance 
is  most  probable  and  coercion  least  practicable. 

Fourth. — They  cite  propositions  in  Congress,  and  suspect 
other  projects  on  foot,  still  to  increase  the  mass  of  the  debt. 

Fifth. — They  say  that,  by  borrowing  at  two-thirds  of  the 


232  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  35. 

interest,  we  might  have  paid  off  the  principal  in  two-thirds  of 
the  time ;  but  that  from  this  we  are  precluded  by  its  being  made 
irredeemable  but  in  small  portions,  and  long  terms. 

Sixth. — That  this  irredeemable  quality  was  given  it  for  the 
avowed  purpose  of  inviting  its  transfer  to  foreign  countries. 

Seventh. — They  predict  that  this  transfer  of  the  principal, 
when  completed,  will  occasion  an  exportation  of  three  millions 
of  dollars  annually  for  the  interest ;  a  drain  of  coin,  of  which,  as 
there  has  been  no  example,  no  calculation  can  be  made  of  its 
consequences. 

Eighth. — That  the  banishment  of  our  coin  will  be  completed 
by  the  creation  of  ten  millions  of  paper  money,  in  the  form  of 
bank  bills,  now  issuing  into  circulation. 

Ninth. — They  think  the  ten  or  twelve  per  cent,  annual  profit 
paid  to  the  lenders  of  this  paper  medium,  are  taken  out  of  the 
pockets  of  the  people,  who  would  have  had  without  interest  the 
coin  it  is  banishing. 

Tenth. — That  all  the  capital  employed  in  paper  speculation  is 
barren  and  useless,  producing,  like  that  on  a  gaming  table,  no 
accession  to  itself,  and  is  withdrawn  from  commerce  and  agri- 
culture, where  it  would  have  produced  addition  to  the  common 
mass. 

Eleventh. — That  it  nourishes  in  our  citizens  vice  and  idleness 
instead  of  industry  and  morality. 

Twelfth. — That  it  has  furnished  effectual  means  of  corrupting 
such  a  portion  of  the  legislature  as  turns  the  balance  between 
the  honest  voters  whichever  way  it  is  directed. 

Thirteenth. — That  this  corrupt  squadron,  deciding  the  voice  of 
the  legislature,  have  manifested  their  dispositions  to  get  rid  of 
the  limitations  imposed  by  the  Constitution  on  the  general  legis- 
lature ;  limitations,  on  the  faith  of  which  the  States  acceded  to 
that  instrument. 

Fourteenth. — That  the  ultimate  object  of  all  this  is,  to  prepare 
the  way  for  a  change  from  the  present  republican  form  of  gov- 
ernment to  that  of  a  monarchy,  of  which  the  British  constitution 
is  to  be  the  model. 

Fifteenth. — That  this  was  contemplated   in  the   Convention 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  233 

they  say  is  no  secret,  because  its  partisans  have  made  none  of  it. 
To  effect  it  then  was  impracticable ;  but  they  are  still  eager  after 
their  object,  and  are  predisposing  every  thing  for  its  ultimate 
attainment. 

Sixteenth. — So  many  of  them  have  got  into  the  legislature, 
that,  aided  by  the  corrupt  squadron  of  paper  dealers,  who  are  at 
their  devotion,  they  make  a  majority  in  both  houses. 

Seventeenth. — The  republican  party  who  wish  to  preserve  the 
government  in  its  present  form  are  fewer,  even  when  joined  by 
the  two,  three,  or  half  a  dozen  antifederalists,  who,  though  they 
dare  not  avow  it,  are  still  opposed  to  any  general  government ; 
but,  being  less  so  to  a  republican  than  a  monarchical  one,  they 
naturally  join  those  whom  they  think  pursuing  the  lesser  evil. 

Eighteenth. — Of  all  the  mischiefs  objected  to  the  system  of 
measures  before  mentioned,  none,  they  add,  is  so  afflicting,  and 
fatal  to  every  honest  hope,  as  the  corruption  of  the  legislature ; 
as  it  was  the  earliest  of  these  measures,  it  became  the  instrument 
for  producing  the  rest,  and  will  be  the  instrument  for  producing 
in  future  a  king,  lords,  and  commons,  or  whatever  else  those 
who  direct  it  may  choose.  Withdrawn  such  a  distance  from 
the  eye  of  their  constituents,  and  these  so  dispersed  as  to  be 
inaccessible  to  public  information,  and  particularly  to  that  of  the 
conduct  of  their  own  representatives,  they  will  form  the  worst 
government  upon  earth,  if  the  means  of  their  corruption  be  not 
prevented. 

Nineteenth. — The  only  hope  of  safety,  they  say,  hangs  now  on 
the  numerous  representation  which  is  to  come  forward  the  ensu- 
ing year ;  but  should  the  majority  of  the  new  members  be  still 
in  the  same  principles  with  the  present — show  so  much  derelic- 
tion to  republican  government,  and  such  a  disposition  to  encroach 
upon,  or  explain  away  the  limited  powers  of  the  Constitution,  in 
order  to  change  it,  it  is  not  easy  to.  conjecture  what  would  be  the 
result,  nor  what  means  would  be  resorted  to  for  correction  of  the 
evil.  True  wisdom,  they  acknowledge,  should  direct  temperate 
and  peaceable  measures,  but  add,  the  division  of  sentiment  and 
interest  happens,  unfortunately,  to  be  so  geographical,  that  no 
mortal  cay  say  that  what  is  most  wise  and  temperate,  would  pre- 


234  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

vail  against  what  is  more  easy  and  obvious ;  they  declare  they 
can  contemplate  no  evil  more  incalculable  than  the  breaking  of 
the  Union  into  two  or  more  parts  ;  yet  when  they  view  the  mass 
which  opposed  the  original  coalescence ;  when  they  consider  that 
it  lay  chiefly  in  the  southern  quarter — that  the  legislature  have 
availed  themselves  of  no  occasion  of  allaying  it,  but  on  the  con- 
trary, whenever  northern  and  southern  prejudices  have  come  into 
conflict,  the  latter  have  been  sacrificed  and  the  former  soothed. 

Tvjentieth. — That  the  owners  of  the  debt  are  in  the  southern, 
and  the  holders  of  it  in  the  northern  division. 

Twenty-first. — That  the  antifecleral  champions  are  now 
strengthened  in  argument  by  the  fulfilment  of  their  predictions, 
which  has  been  brought  about  by  the  monarchical  federalists 
themselves ;  who,  having  been  for  the  new  government  merely 
as  a  stepping-stone  to  monarchy,  have  themselves  adopted  the 
very  construction,  of  which,  when  advocating  its  acceptance  be- 
fore the  tribunal  of  the  people,  they  declared  it  insusceptible, 
whilst  the  republican  federalists,  who  espoused  the  same  govern- 
ment, for  its  intrinsic  merits,  are  disarmed  of  their  weapons,  that 
which  they  denied  as  prophecy  being  now  become  true  history. 
Who  therefore  can  be  sure,  they  ask,  that  these  things  may  not 
proselyte  the  small  number  which  was  wanting  to  place  the  ma- 
jority on  the  other  side  ?  and  this,  they  add,  is  the  event  at  which 
they  tremble. 

These,  as  well  as  my  memory  serves  me,  are  the  sentiments 
which,  directly  and  indirectly,  have  been  disclosed  to  me. 

To  obtain  light,  and  to  pursue  truth,  being  my  sole  aim,  and 
wishing  to  have  before  me  explanations  of,  as  well  as  the  com- 
plaints, on  measures  in  which  the  public  interest,  harmon}r,  and 
peace  is  so  deeply  concerned,  and  my  public  conduct  so  much  in- 
volved, it  is  my  request,  and  you  would  oblige  me  in  furnishing 
me,  with  your  ideas  upon  the  discontents  here  enumerated — and 
for  this  purpose  I  have  thrown  them  into  heads  or  sections,  and 
numbered  them,  that  those  ideas  may  apply  to  the  correspondent 
numbers. 

Although  I  do  not  mean  to  hurry  you  in  giving  your 
thoughts  on  the  occasion  of  this  letter,  yet,  as  soon  as  you  can 


JEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  235 

make  it  convenient  to  yourself,  it  would,  for  more  reasons  than 
one,  be  agreeable  and  very  satisfactory  to  me. 

The  enclosure  in  your  letter  of  the  16th  was  sent  back  the 
post  after  I  received  it,  with  my  approving  signature ;  and  in  a 
few  days  I  will  write  to  the  purpose  mentioned  in  your  letter  of 
the  2 2d,  both  to  the  Secretary  of  War  and  yourself.  At  present 
all  my  business,  public  and  private,  is  on  my  own  shoulders. 
The  two  young  gentlemen  who  came  home  with  me,  being  on 
visits  to  their  friends  ;  and  my  nephew,  the  Major,  too  much  in- 
disposed to  afford  me  any  aid  in  copying,  or  other  matters. 
With  affectionate  regard,  I  am,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  July  30,  1792, 

Sir: 

I  received  the  most  sincere  pleasure  at  finding  in  our  late 
conversation,  that  there  was  some  relaxation  in  the  disposition 
you  had  before  discovered  to  decline  a  re-election.  Since  your 
departure,  I  have  left  no  opportunity  of  sounding  the  opinions 
of  persons,  whose  opinions  were  worth  knowing,  on  these  two 
points.  1st.  The  effect  of  your  declining  upon  the  public  affairs, 
and  upon  your  own  reputation.  2dly.  The  effect  of  your  contin- 
uing, in  reference  to  the  declarations  you  have  made  of  your 
disinclination  to  public  life ;  and  I  can  truly  say  that  I  have  not 
found  the  least  difference  of  sentiment,  on  either  point.  The  im- 
pression is  uniform,  that  your  declining  would  be  to  be  deplored 
as  the  greatest  evil  that  could  befall  the  country  at  the  present 
juncture,  and  as  critically  hazardous  to  your  own  reputation — 
that  your  continuance  will  be  justified  in  the  mind  of  every  friend 
to  his  country,  by  the  evident  necessity  for  it.  5Tis  clear,  says 
every  one  with  whom  I  have  conversed,  that  the  affairs  of  the 
national  government  are  not  yet  firmly  established — that  its  ene- 
mies, generally  speaking,  arc  as  inveterate  as  ever — that  their 


236  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [;Et.  35. 

enmity  has  been  sharpened  by  its  success,  and  by  ail  the  resent- 
ments which  flow  from  disappointed  predictions  and  mortified 
vanity — that  a  general  and  strenuous  effort  is  making  in  every 
State,  to  place  the  administration  of  it  in  the  hands  of  its  ene- 
mies, as  if  they  were  its  safest  guardians — that  the  period  of  the 
next  House  of  Representatives  is  likely  to  prove  the  crisis  of  its 
permanent  character — that  if  you  continue  in  office,  nothing  ma- 
terially mischievous  is  to  be  apprehended — if  you  quit,  much  is 
to  be  dreaded — that  the  same  motives  which  induced  you  to  ac- 
cept originally  ought  to  decide  you  to  continue  till  matters  have 
assumed  a  more  determined  aspect — that  indeed  it  would  have 
been  better,  as  it  regards  your  own  character,  that  you  had  never 
consented  to  come  forward,  than  now  to  leave  the  business  unfin- 
ished and  in  danger  of  being  undone — that  in  the  event  of 
storms  arising,  there  would  be  an  imputation  either  of  want  of 
foresight  or  want  of  firmness — and  in  fine,  that  on  public  and 
personal  accounts,  on  patriotic  and  prudential  considerations,  the 
clear  path  to  be  pursued  by  you  will  be,  again  to  obey  the  voice 
of  your  country ;  which  it  is  not  doubted  will  be  as  earnest  and 
as  unanimous  as  ever. 

On  this  last  point,  I  have  some  suspicion  that  it  will  be  in- 
sinuated to  you,  and  perhaps  (God  forgive  me,  if  I  judge  hardly) 
with  design  to  place  before  you  a  motive  for  declining — that 
there  is  danger  of  a  division  among  the  electors,  and  of  less  una- 
nimity  in  their  suffrages  than  heretofore.  My  view  of  this  matter 
is  as  follows. 

While  your  first  election  was  depending,  I  had  no  doubt  that 
there  would  be  characters  among  the  electors,  who,  if  they  durst 
follow  their  inclinations,  would  have  voted  against  you ;  but  that 
in  all  probability  they  would  be  restrained  by  an  apprehension 
of  public  resentment — that  nevertheless  it  was  possible  a  few 
straggling  votes  might  be  found  in  opposition,  from  some  head- 
strong and  fanatical  individuals — that  a  circumstance  of  this  kind 
would  be  in  fact,  and  ought  to  be  estimated  by  }^ou,  as  of  no  im- 
portance, since  there  would  be  sufficient  unanimity  to  witness  the 
general  confidence  and  attachment  towards  you. 

My  view  of  the  future  accords  exactly  with  what  was  my 


Mt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  287 

view  of  the  past.  I  believe  the  same  motives  will  operate  to 
produce  the  same  result.  The  dread  of  public  indignation  will 
be  likely  to  restrain  the  indisposed  few.  If  they  can  calculate 
at  all,  they  will  naturally  reflect  that  they  could  not  give  a  se- 
verer blow  to  their  cause  than  by  giving  a  proof  of  hostility  to 
you.  But  if  a  solitary  vote  or  two  should  appear  wanting  to 
perfect  unanimity,  of  what  moment  can  it  be?  Will  not  the 
fewness  of  the  exceptions  be  a  confirmation  of  the  devotion  of 
the  community  to  a  character  which  has  so  generally  united  its 
suffrages  after  an  administration  of  four  years  at  the  head  of  a 
new  government,  opposed  in  its  first  establishment  by  a  large 
proportion  of  its  citizens,  and  obliged  to  run  counter  to  many 
prejudices  in  devising  the  arduous  arrangements  requisite  to  pub- 
lic credit  and  public  order  ?  Will  not  those  who  may  be  the 
authors  of  any  such  exceptions,  manifest  more  their  own  per- 
verseness  and  malevolence  than  any  diminution  of  the  affection 
and  confidence  of  the  nation  ?  I  am  persuaded  that  both  these 
questions  ought  to  be  answered  in  the  affirmative,  and  that  there 
is  nothing  to  be  looked  for,  on  the  score  of  diversity  of  sentiment, 
which  ought  to  weigh  for  a  moment. 

I  trust,  sir,  and  I  pray  God,  that  you  will  determine  to  make 
a  further  sacrifice  of  your  tranquillity  and  happiness  to  the  pub- 
lic good.  I  trust  that  it  need  not  continue  above  a  year  or  two 
more ;  and  I  think  that  it  will  be  more  eligible  to  retire  from 
office  before  the  expiration  of  a  term  of  election,  than  to  decline 
a  re-election. 

The  sentiments  I  have  delivered  upon  this  occasion,  I  can 
truly  say,  proceed  exclusively  from  an  anxious  concern  for  the 
public  welfare,  and  an  affectionate  personal  attachment.  These 
dispositions  must  continue  to  govern  in  every  vicissitude  one 
who  has  the  honor  to  be,  very  truly  and  respectfully,  &c. 

August  3d.  Since  writing  the  foregoing,  I  am  favored  with 
your  interesting  letter  of  the  29th  of  July.  An  answer  to  the 
points  raised  is  not  difficult,  and  shall  as  soon  as  possible  be 
forwarded. 


238  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

WASHINGTON  TO   HAMILTON. 

Mount  Vernon,  1st  August,  1792. 

Sir: 

I  learn  with  pleasure  from  the  War  Office,  by  the  Secretary's 
last  dispatches,  that  our  north-western  frontier  is  in  a  state  of 
tranquillity.  It  may  be  construed  into  an  indication  that  some 
of  the  messages  which,  have  been  sent  by  government,  have 
reached  the  hostile  tribes,  and  have  occasioned  them  to  deliberate 
thereon.  Devoutly  is  it  to  be  wished  that  the  result  may  be  fa- 
vorable, both  for  themselves  and  the  United  States. 

No  expectation  of  this,  however,  ought  to  suspend,  or  in  the 
least  degree  relax,  the  preparations  for  war ;  but  as  war  under 
any  circumstances  is  expensive,  and,  with  such  a  long  and 
rugged  land  transportation  as  the  one  by  which  we  have  to  con- 
vey the  supplies  for  the  army,  must  for  the  quantum  of  them  be 
extremely  so,  it  behoves  us  to  be  as  precise  in  all  our  arrange- 
ments, as  economical  in  our  provisions,  as  strict  in  our  issues,  and 
as  correct  in  accounting  for  them  to  the  War  or  Treasury  Depart- 
ments (as  the  case  may  happen  to  be)  as  possible.  That  I  may 
know  under  what  regulation  these  matters  are,  I  have  by  this 
day's  post  written  to  the  Secretary  of  War,  desiring  him  to  re- 
port to  me  the  mode  which  is  pursued  by  his  direction  from 
thence,  for  providing,  transporting,  issuing,  and  accounting  for 
them.  If  the  Treasury  Department  has  an  agency  in  any  of 
these  matters,  I  require  a  similar  report  from  thence  also. 

Mr.  Kean,  by  a  letter  which  I  have  received  from  him,  ac- 
cepts his  renewed  commission  for  settling  the  accounts  between 
the  United  States  and  the  individual  States,  which,  please  to  say 
to  him,  gives  me  pleasure ;  and  add,  that  any  efforts  he  can  make 
to  bring  this  business  to  a  speedy  and  happy  issue,  I  shall  con- 
sider as  rendering  an  important  service  to  the  Union,  because  I 
view  the  closing  of  the  accounts  speedily  as  extremely  essential 
to  its  interest  and  tranquillity.  Let  me  know  if  Mr.  Langdon, 
the  commissioner,  is  returned  to  his  duty;  and,  in  that  case, 
when.     I  am,  dear  sir,  &c. 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  239 

HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  3d  August,  1792. 

Sir: 

I  have  the  honor  to  inclose  a  letter  from  the  Commissioner  of 
the  Ee venue  of  the  25th  of  July,  on  the  subject  of  a  provisional 
contract  for  the  supply  of  the  light-house  in  New  Hampshire ; 
together  with  the  contract  for  your  consideration  and  decision. 
I  agree  in  the  opinion  expressed  by  the  Commissioner  of  the 
Kevenue. 

With  the  most  perfect  and  truest  attachment,  &c. 

P.  S. — Inclosed  you  will  be  pleased  to  receive  the  copy  of  a 
letter  of  the  31st  of  May,  just  received  from  our  Commissioners 
at  Amsterdam.  It  announces  a  further  loan  of  3,000,000  of 
florins,  at  4  per  cent. 


HAMILTON  TO  SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  August  4th,  1792. 

Sir: 

Since  my  last  to  you  on  the  25th  ultimo,  I  have  received  a 
letter  from  our  Commissioners  at  Amsterdam,  informing  me  of 
their  having  recently  instituted  another  loan  for  the  United 
States,  of  three  millions,  at  4  per  cent,  interest,  to  be  dated  the 
1st  of  June  last. 

I  have  concluded  to  destine  the  money,  arising  from  this  loan, 
towards  paying  the  debt  due  to  France,  and  you  will  accordingly 
apply  it  to  that  object. 


240  HAMILTON'S     WORKS.  [jEt.  35. 


JEFFERSON  TO   TERNANT. 

August,  1792. 

I  have  communicated  to  the  President  what  passed  between 
us  the  other  clay  on  the  subject  of  the  payments  made  to  France 
by  the  United  States  in  the  assignats  of  that  country  since  they 
have  lost  the  par  with  gold  and  silver ;  and  after  conferences  by 
his  instruction  with  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  I  am  autho- 
rized to  inform  you  that  the  government  have  no  idea  of  paving 
their  debt  in  a  depreciated  medium,  and  that  they  will  take 
measures  for  making  these  payments  in  their  just  value,  avoiding 
all  benefit  from  depreciation,  and  desiring  on  their  part  to  be 
guarded  against  any  unjust  loss  from  the  circumstance  of  mere 
exchange. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  with  the  most  perfect  esteem  and 
respect,  &c. 


HAMILTON"  TO  JEFFERSON. 

August,  1792. 
Mr.  Hamilton  presents  his  compliments  to  the  Secretary  of 
State.  He  would  think  the  turn  of  expression  on  the  whole 
safer,  if  instead  of  what  follows  the  words  "  depreciated  me- 
dium" the  following  was  substituted — "and  that  in  the  final 
liquidation  of  the  payments,  which  shall  have  been  made,  due 
regard  will  be  had  for  an  equitable  allowance  for  the  circum- 
stance of  depreciation." 


jEt.35.]  cabinet    papers.  241 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Mount  Vernon,  5th  August,  1792. 

Sir: 

Since  the  date  of  my  last  dispatch  to  you  of  the  1st  instant  I 
have  received  your  letters  of  the  26th  and  30th  ultimo,  and  have 
affixed  my  signature  to  the  arrangement  of  compensations  to  the 
officers  of  inspection,  in  consequence  of  additional  latitude  given 
to  the  President  of  the  United  States,  by  the  act  of  the  last  ses- 
sion, entitled  "  An  act  concerning  the  duties  on  spirits  distilled 
within  the  United  States." 

I  have  done  this  on  full  conviction,  that  the  best  information 
the  nature  of  the  case  would  admit  has  been  obtained  at  the 
treasury,  to  keep  the  aggregate  within  the  limitations  of  the  law, 
and  to  proportion  the  compensation  to  the  services  of  the  respec- 
tive officers ;  presuming  also,  that  it  appeared,  from  a  full  view  of 
circumstances,  and  benefits  likely  to  be  derived  from  the  mea- 
sure to  the  public,  that  an  increase  of  the  officers  of  revenue  was 
really  necessary,  for  I  should  be  unwilling  to  add  to  the  former 
establishment,  unless  the  propriety  of  it  was  apparent.  Unless 
the  Attorney-General  should  be  of  opinion,  that  the  President  of 
the  United  States  has  power,  under  the  act  of  March,  1791,  or 
the  subsequent  one  of  the  last  session,  to  appoint,  in  the  recess 
of  the  Senate,  an  inspector  of  the  survey  newly  instituted  in 
Maryland,  it  must  remain,  as  is  proposed,  under  the  immediate 
direction  of  the  supervisor. 

If  after  these  regulations  are  in  operation,  opposition  to  the 
due  exercise  of  the  collection  is  still  experienced  and  peaceable 
procedure  is  no  longer  effectual,  the  public  interest  and  my  duty 
will  make  it  necessary  to  enforce  the  laws  respecting  this  mat- 
ter; and  however  disagreeable  this  would  be  to  me,  it  must 
nevertheless  take  place. 

The  collector  was  not  at  Baltimore  when  I  passed  through 

that  place ;  but  from  the  naval  officer  I  learned,  that  the  service 

would  sustain  no  loss  by  the  resignation  of  the  master  of  the 

Maryland  revenue  cutter,  that  the  first  mate  was  a  more  compe- 

D  16 


242  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

tent  character,  and  that  the  general  expectation  was  that  he 
would  be  appointed  to  command  it.  That  I  might  know  how 
far  the  sentiments  of  others  accorded  with  those  of  the  naval 
officer,  I  requested  the  supervisor,  Mr.  Gale,  to  make  inquiry, 
and  to  inform  me  of  the  result,  but  not  having  heard  from  him 
since,  the  first  mate  (his  name  I  do  not  recollect)  may  be  notified 
by  you  of  my  intention  to  commission  him  master,  so  soon  as  I 
am  provided  with  commissions  for  that  purpose.  At  present  I 
have  none.  The  same  may  be  given  to  John  Adams,  as  first, 
and  Benjamin  Gunnison  as  second  mate  of  the  revenue  cutter  in 
New  Hampshire ;  and  to  Ashur  Cook  as  first,  and  John  Fenley 
as  second  mate  of  the  New- York  cutter.  The  third  mate  for  the 
cutter  may  remain  for  further  inquiry  and  consideration. 

If  your  information  with  respect  to  the  proposed  characters 
for  the  cutter  in  New  Hampshire,  is  not  such  as  you  can  en- 
tirely rely  upon,  Mr.  Lear,  who  is   on  the   spot,  might  afford 
you  some  aid  in  the  investigation  of  them  or  others. 
I  am,  Sir,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  August  10th,  1792. 

Sir: 

I  have  been  duly  honored  with  your  letters  of  the  1st  and 
5th  instant.  A  copy  of  the  latter  is  inclosed  according  to  your 
desire. 

You  may  depend  upon  it,  sir,  that  nothing  shall  be  wanting 
in  this  department  to  furnish  all  requisite  supplies  for  the  army 
with  efficiency  and  economy,  and  to  bring  to  exact  account  all 
persons  concerned  in  them  as  far  as  shall  consist  with  the  pow- 
ers of  the  department.  Hitherto  moneys  have  been  furnished  to 
the  War  Department  as  they  have  been  called  for,  for  procuring 
all  those  articles  which  have  not  been  objects  of  direct  contract 
with  the  Treasury.  And  I  learn  from  the  Secretary  of  War  that 
every  thing  is  in  great  maturity. 


Mt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  243 

Under  the  former  system,  provisions  and  clothing  were  the 
only  articles  which  the  Treasury  had  the  charge  of  procuring ; 
the  receiving,  issuing,  and  inspecting  their  quality  belonged  to 
the  Department  of  War  by  usage. 

The  act  of  the  last  session,  entitled  "  An  act  making  altera- 
tions in  the  Treasury  and  War  Departments,"  prescribes  that  all 
purchases  and  contracts  for  all  supplies  for  the  use  of  the  Depart- 
ment of  War,  be  made  by  or  under  the  direction  of  the  Treasury 
Department. 

As  much  progress  has  been  made  in  the  preparation  for  the 
campaign,  prior  to  the  passing  of  this  act,  by  the  Secretary  of 
War,  I  thought  it  best  to  continue  the  business  under  his  imme- 
diate care  for  some  time — till  in  fact  all  the  arrangements  begun 
should  be  completed.  It  is  now,  however,  determined  that  on 
the  first  of  September  the  business  of  procuring  all  supplies  will 
be  begun  under  the  immediate  direction  of  the  Treasury,  upon 
estimates  and  requisitions  from  time  to  time  furnished  and  made 
by  the  Department  of  War. 

The  arrangement  which  is  contemplated  for  this  purpose  is 
the  following: — Provisions  and  clothing  will  be  provided  as 
heretofore,  by  contracts  made  by  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury 
pursuant  to  previous  advertisements.  Articles  in  the  quartermas- 
ter's department  will  be  to  be  procured  by  him,  or  his  agents  or 
deputies ;  for  which  purpose,  advances  of  money  will  be  made  to 
him  directly,  to  be  accounted  for  to  the  Treasury  by  him.  Ord- 
nance stores,  Indian  goods,  and  all  contingent  supplies,  will  be 
procured  by  an  agent  who  will  be  constituted  for  the  purpose, 
with  an  allowance  of  eight  hundred  dollars  a  year  in  lieu  of  com- 
mission. Accounts  for  his  purchases,  in  every  case  in  which  it 
can  conveniently  be  done  (which  will  comprehend  the  greatest 
number  of  cases),  will  be  settled  immediately  with  the  Treasury, 
and  the  money  paid  directly  to  the  individuals.  In  other  cases, 
advances  on  account  will  be  made  to  the  agent,  to  be  accounted 
for  directly  to  the  Treasury. 

A  leading  object  of  this  arrangement  is  to  exempt  the  officers, 
both  of  the  War  and  Treasury  Departments,  from  the  ill-natured 
suspicions  which  are  incident  to  the  actual  handling  and  dis- 


244  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mi.  35. 

bursements  of  public  money.  None  of  the  interior  officers  of 
either  department,  except  the  Treasurer,  will  have  any  concern 
with  it. 

The  supplies  of  every  kind  will  be  delivered  to  the  order  of 
the  Department  of  War.  The  issuing  of  them  and  the  accounting 
for  the  issues  (except  as  to  provisions,  which  are  directly  issued 
by  the  contractors  to  the  troops,  and  which  are  proved  to  the 
Treasury  upon  vouchers  prescribed  for  the  purpose)  appertain  to 
the  Department  of  War.  The  regulations  which  have  been 
adopted  for  the  purpose,  will  no  doubt  be  early  reported  to  you 
by  the  Secretary  at  War,  as  well  as  those  which  have  been  con- 
certed with  the  Treasury  respecting  the  paying  and  accounting 
for  the  pay  of  the  troops. 

I  beg  leave  to  assure  you,  that,  in  the  application  of  the  gen- 
eral arrangement  which  you  have  adopted  respecting  the  execu- 
tion of  the  act  concerning  distilled  spirits,  the  greatest  attention 
will  be  paid  to  economy,  as  far  as  the  precautions  of  the  Treasury 
can  insure  it. 

I  presume  it  to  have  been  your  intention  that  the  opinion  of 
the  Attorney-General  should  be  taken,  as  to  the  power  of  the 
President  to  appoint  the  supplementary  officers  contemplated 
during  the  recess  of  the  Senate ;  which  shall  accordingly  be  done. 

It  affords  me  much  satisfaction  to  observe  that  your  mind  has 
anticipated  the  decision  to  enforce  the  law,  in  case  a  refractory 
spirit  should  continue  to  render  the  ordinary  and  more  desirable 
means  ineffectual.  My  most  deliberate  reflections  have  led  me 
to  conclude,  that  the  time  for  acting  with  decision  is  at  hand ; 
and  it  is  with  pleasure  I  can  add,  that  an  increasing  acquies- 
cence is  likely  to  render  this  course  the  less  difficult  in  the  cases 
in  which  an  uncomplying  temper  may  finally  prevail. 

I  shall  without  delay  execute  your  directions  respecting  the 
officers  of  the  cutters. 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  245 


HAMILTON  TO  ADAMS. 

Philadelphia,  Aug.  16,  1792. 

Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  been  duly  favored  with,  your  letter  of  the  4th  instant. 
A  warrant  for  one  thousand  dollars  in  your  favor  has  issued.  If 
any  authorization  from  you  had  been  sent  to  your  son  or  any  one 
else,  your  signature  on  the  warrant  would  have  been  unneces- 
sary. But  as  it  is,  it  will  be  indispensable.  Perhaps,  however, 
the  Treasurer  may  pay  in  expectation  of  it. 

The  question  when  the  Vice-President  entered  on  the  duties 
of  his  office  is  open  at  the  Treasury ;  though  an  opinion  has  ob- 
tained that  the  taking  of  the  oath  was  the  criterion.  This  has 
been  founded  on  two  considerations, — analogy  to  the  case  of  the 
President.  The  Constitution  requires  that  he  shall  take  an  oath 
before  he  enters  upon  the  execution  of  his  office.  He  cannot  enter 
upon  the  duties  of  it  without  entering  upon  the  execution  of  it, 
and  he  cannot  legally  do  the  latter  till  he  has  taken  the  oath 
prescribed.  The  same  injunction,  however,  is  not  laid  upon  the 
Vice-President;  and  therefore,  except  by  analogy,  resort  must 
be  had  to  the  second  consideration,  namely,  that  the  taking  of 
the  oath  of  office  is  the  legal  act  of  acceptance,  and  may  be  sup- 
posed to  date  the  commencement  of  service. 

But  this  reasoning,  it  must  be  confessed,  is  not  conclusive ; 
and  therefore  the  opinion  of  the  Attorney-General  will  be  taken, 
both  as  to  the  President  and  Vice-President,  and  I  presume  will 
guide  in  the  adjustment. 

Twenty  thousand  dollars  have  been  appropriated,  and  the 
advances  by  anticipation  may  reach  that  limit. 

You  forgot  that  Mr.  Clinton  could  feast  upon  what  would 
starve  another.  He  will  not,  however,  have  an  opportunity  of 
making  the  experiment ;  and  I  hope  the  starvation  policy  will 
not  long  continue  fashionable. 

Your  confirmation  of  the  good  disposition  of  New  England  is 
a  source  of  satisfaction.  I  have  a  letter  from  a  well-informed 
friend  in  Virginia,  who  says,  "  All  the  persons  I  converse  with 


246  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  35. 

are  prosperous  and  happy,  and  yet  most  of  them,  including  the 
friends  of  the  government,  appear  to  be  much  alarmed  at  a  sup- 
posed system  of  policy  tending  to  subvert  the  republican  govern- 
ment of  the  country."  Were  ever  men  more  ingenious  to  torment 
themselves  with  phantoms  ? 

Adieu,  my  dear  sir,  and  believe  me  always  very  respectfully 
and  affectionately,  &c. 


MOEKIS  TO  HAMILTON. 

Paris,  August  17th,  1792. 

Dear  Sir  : 

Mr.  Short,  just  before  he  departed  from  this  city,  left  with  me 
a  memoir  in  Dutch,  respecting  the  mint.  I  was  to  get  it  trans- 
lated  for  you,  but  not  having  been  able  to  find  a  person 
acquainted  with  the  Dutch  and  English  languages,  I  have  now 
determined  to  send  you  the  original,  which  you  will  find  here 
inclosed.  I  hope  it  may  prove  useful,  and  answer  the  end  you 
had  in  view.  I  have  transmitted  to  Mr.  Jefferson  copies  of  my 
correspondence  with  the  Commissioners  of  the  Treasury  here, 
respecting  our  debt.  You  seem  to  have  supposed,  that  the  in- 
stalments due  had  been  paid,  and  this  may  turn  out  to  be  the 
case,  when  the  account  shall  have  been  strictly  examined,  which 
I  shall  take  care  of.  Mr.  Short  left  (as  I  presume  he  informed 
you)  this  business  unfinished,  supposing  that  my  powers  would 
be  competent  to  it,  which  they  are  not ;  and  indeed  I  should  be 
glad  to  avoid  all  interference  in  pecuniary  affairs,  if  possible ; 
not  on  account  of  the  labor,  for  you  may  lay  as  much  of  that  on 
me  as  you  please,  but  I  would  avoid  all  occasions  of  slanderous 
imputation. 

I  formerly  recommended  to  Mr.  Short  the  opening  of  a  loan 
at  Antwerp,  and  it  was  attended  with  the  best  effects ;  for  the 
capitalists  of  Amsterdam  who  had  shortly  before  induced  our 
Commissioners  to  believe  that  money  could  not  be  obtained  there 
under  five  per  cent.,  soon  after  let  us  have  it  at  four.     This  I  was 


Mt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  247 

sure  would  happen,  for  I  had  been  in  Holland,  had  studied  the 
character  of  the  money-lending  people,  and  made  myself  ac- 
quainted with  the  manner  of  transacting  business. 

I  am  still  of  opinion  that  it  is  wise  to  multiply  the  scenes  on 
which  to  display  our  credit.  Those  who  have  lent  money  to  a 
nation,  naturally  incline  to  speak  well  of  that  nation,  first  to 
justify  the  confidence  they  have  placed,  and  next  to  increase  the 
value  of  the  stock  they  possess.  It  may  at  first  seem  more  eligi- 
ble, because  more  convenient,  to  perform  all  our  pecuniary  ope- 
rations at  one  place,  and  those  who  are  interested  in  establishing 
that  doctrine,  will  find  many  plausible  arguments  in  support  of 
their  favorite  theory,  just  as  somebody  (I  believe  it  was  Silas 
Dean)  endeavored  to  prove,  that  we  had  better  buy  teas  and 
nankins  in  London  than  in  China.  I  remember  the  thing  made 
an  impression  on  me  at  the  time,  as  the  India  Company  were 
then  buying  at  Dunkirk  some  teas,  which  had  been  shipped  from 
America. 

To  return  from  the  digression,  I  apprehend  that  confining  this 
business  to  one  spot,  may,  in  the  end,  have  a  very  unfavorable 
influence  both  on  our  commerce  and  exchange,  because  the  neces- 
sity of  remittances  being  known,  and  the  period  also,  capitalists 
can  take  their  measures  beforehand  to  give  you  the  law,  and  if, 
which  God  forbid,  public  events  should  compel  us  to  make  loans, 
our  creditors  knowing  our  absolute  dependence  on  them  alone, 
will  impose  whatever  terms  they  please.  I  do  not  dwell  on 
these  topics,  because  a  word  is  sufficient  to  you. 

GOUVERNEUR  MORRIS. 


HAMILTON  TO   WASHINGTON". 

Philadelphia,  Aug.  18,  1792. 

Sir  : 

I  am  happ}r  to  be  able,  at  length,  to  send  you  answers  to  the 
objections  which  were  communicated  in  your  letter  of  the  29th 
of  July. 


248  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

They  have  unavoidably  been  drawn  in  haste,  too  much  so,  to 
do  perfect  justice  to  the  subject,  and  have  been  copied  just  as 
they  flowed  from  my  heart  and  pen,  without  revision  or  correction. 
You  will  observe,  that  here  and  there  some  severity  appears.  I 
have  not  fortitude  enough  always  to  hear  with  calmness  calum- 
nies which  necessarily  include  me,  as  a  principal  agent  in  the 
measures  censured,  of  the  falsehood  of  which  I  have  the  most 
unqualified  consciousness.  I  trust  I  shall  always  be  able  to  bear, 
as  I  ought,  imputations  of  errors  of  judgment ;  but  I  acknow- 
ledge that  I  cannot  be  entirely  patient  under  charges,  which 
impeach  the  integrity  of  my  public  motives  or  conduct.  I  feel 
that  I  merit  them  in  no  degree;  and  expressions  of  indignation 
sometimes  escape  me,  in  spite  of  every  effort  to  suppress  them. 
I  rely  on  your  goodness  for  the  proper  allowances. 

With  high  respect  and  the  most  affectionate  attachment,  I 
have  the  honor  to  be,  sir,  &c. 


OBJECTIONS    AND     ANSWERS    RESPECTING  THE    ADMINISTRATION 

OF   THE   GOVERNMENT. 

Objection  1. — The  public  debt  is  greater  than  we  can  possibly 
pay  before  other  causes  of  adding  to  it  will  occur ;  and  this  has 
been  artificially  created  by  adding  together  the  ivhole  amount  of 
the  debtor  and  creditor  sides  of  the  accounts. 

Answer. — The  public  debt  was  produced  by  the  late  war.  It 
is  not  the  fault  of  the  present  government  that  it  exists ;  unless 
it  can  be  proved,  that  public  morality  and  policy  do  not  require 
of  a  government  an  honest  provision  for  its  debts.  Whether  it 
is  greater  than  can  be  paid  before  new  causes  of  adding  to  it  will 
occur,  is  a  problem  incapable  of  being  solved,  but  by  experience ; 
and  this  would  be  the  case  if  it  were  not  one-fourth  as  much  as 
it  is.  If  the  policy  of  the  country  be  prudent,  cautious,  and 
neutral  towards  foreign  nations,  there  is  a  rational  probability 
that  war  may  be  avoided  long  enough  to  wipe  off  the  debt 


iEi.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  249 

The  Dutch,  in  a  situation  not  near  so  favorable  for  it  as  that  of 
the  United  States,  have  enjoyed  intervals  of  peace  longer  than 
with  proper  exertions  would  suffice  for  the  purpose.  The  debt 
of  the  United  States,  compared  with  its  present  and  growing 
abilities,  is  really  a  very  light  one.  It  is  little  more  than 
15,000,000  of  pounds  sterling — about  the  annual  expenditure 
of  Great  Britain. 

But  whether  the  public  debt  shall  be  extinguished  or  not, 
within  a  moderate  period,  depends  on  the  temper  of  the  people. 
If  they  are  rendered  dissatisfied  by  misrepresentations  of  the 
measures  of  the  government,  the  government  will  be  deprived  of 
an  efficient  command  of  the  resources  of  the  community  towards 
extinguishing  the  debt.  And  thus  those  who  clamor,  are  likely 
to  be  the  principal  causes  of  protracting  the  existence  of  the 
debt. 

As  to  its  having  been  artificially  increased,  this  is  desired ; 
perhaps,  indeed,  the  true  reproach  of  the  system  which  has  been 
adopted,  is,  that  it  has  artificially  diminished  the  debt,  as  will  be 
explained  by  and  by. 

The  assertion  that  the  debt  has  been  increased,  by  adding  to- 
gether the  whole  amount  of  the  debtor  and  creditor  sides  of  the 
account,  not  being  easy  to  be  understood,  is  not  easy  to  be  an- 
swered; but  an  answer  shall  be  attempted. 

The  thirteen  States,  in  their  joint  capacity,  owed  a  certain 
sum.  The  same  States,  in  their  separate  capacities,  owed  another 
sum.  These  two  sums  constitute  the  aggregate  of  the  public  debt. 
The  public,  in  a  political  sense,  compounded  of  the  governments 
of  the  Union  and  of  the  several  States,  was  the  debtor.  The 
individuals  who  hold  the  various  evidences  of  debt  were  the 
creditors.  It  would  be  nonsense  to  say,  that  the  combining  of 
the  two  parts  of  the  public  debt  is  adding  together  the  debtor  and 
creditor  sides  of  the  account.  So  great  an  absurdity  cannot  be 
supposed  to  be  intended  by  the  objection.  Another  meaning 
must  therefore  be  sought  for. 

It  may  possibly  exist  in  the  following  misconception.  The 
States,  individually,  when  they  liquidated  the  accounts  of  indi- 
viduals for  services  and  supplies  towards  the  common  defence, 


250  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

during  the  late  war,  and  gave  certificates  for  the  sums  due,  would 
naturally  charge  them  to  the  United  States  as  contributions  to 
the  common  cause.  The  United  States,  in  assuming  to  pay  those 
certificates,  charge  themselves  with  them.  And  it  may  be  sup- 
posed that  here  is  a  double  charge  for  the  same  thing. 

But  as  the  amount  of  the  sum  assumed  for  each  State,  is  by 
the  system  adopted  to  be  charged  to  such  State,  it  of  course  goes 
in  extinguishment  of  so  much  of  the  first  charge  as  is  equal  to 
the  sum  assumed,  and  leaves  the  United  States  chargeable  only 
once,  as  ought  to  be  the  case. 

Or  perhaps  the  meaning  of  the  objection  may  be  found  in  the 
following  mode  of  reasoning.  Some  States,  from  having  dispro- 
portionately contributed  during  the  war,  would  probably  on  a 
settlement  of  accounts  be  found  debtors,  independently  of  the 
assumption.  The  assuming  of  the  debts  of  such  States  increases 
the  balances  against  them  ;  and  as  these  balances  will  ultimately 
be  remitted,  from  the  impracticability  of  enforcing  their  payment, 
the  sum  assumed  will  be  an  extra  charge  upon  the  United  States, 
increasing  the  mass  of  the  debt. 

This  objection  takes  it  for  granted,  that  the  balances  of  the 
debtor  States  will  not  be  exacted ;  which,  by  the  way,  is  no  part 
of  the  system,  and  if  it  should  eventually  not  prove  true,  the 
foundation  of  the  reasoning  would  fail.  For  it  is  evident,  if  the 
balances  are  to  be  collected,  (unless  there  be  some  undiscovered 
error  in  the  principle  by  which  the  accounts  are  to  be  adjusted,) 
that  one  side  of  the  account  will  counterpoise  the  other.  And 
every  thing  as  to  the  quantum  of  debt  will  remain  in  statu  quo. 

But  it  shall  be  taken  for  granted,  that  the  balances  will  be 
remitted ;  and  still  the  consequence  alleged  does  not  result.  The 
reverse  of  it  may  even  take  place.  In  reasoning  upon  this  point, 
it  must  be  remembered  that  impracticability  would  be  alike  an 
obstacle  to  the  collection  of  balances,  without  as  with  the  as- 
sumption. 

This  being  the  case,  whether  the  balances  to  be  remitted  will 
be  increased  or  diminished  must  depend  on  the  relative  propor- 
tions of  outstanding  debts.  If  a  former  debtor  State  owes  to  in- 
dividuals a  smaller  sum,  in  proportion  to  its  contributive  faculty, 


Mt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  251 

than  a  former  creditor  State,  the  assumption  of  the  debts  of  both 
to  be  provided  for  out  of  a  common  fund  raised  upon  them  pro- 
portionally, must  necessarily,  on  the  idea  of  a  remission  of  bal- 
ances, tend  to  restore  equality  between  them,  and  lessen  the 
balance  of  the  debtor  State  to  be  remitted. 

How  the  thing  may  work  upon  the  whole,  cannot  be  pro- 
nounced without  a  knowledge  of  the  situation  of  the  account  of 
each  State ;  but  all  circumstances  that  are  known,  render  it 
probable  that  the  ultimate  effect  will  be  favorable  to  justice  be- 
tween the  States,  and  that  there  will  be  inconsiderable  balances 
either  on  one  side  or  on  the  other. 

It  was  observed,  that  perhaps  the  true  reproach  of  the  sys- 
tem which  has  been  adopted  is,  that  it  has  artificially  decreased 
the  debt.     This  is  explained  thus : 

In  the  case  of  the  debt  of  the  United  States,  interest  upon 
two-thirds  of  the  principal  only,  at  6  per  cent.,  is  immediately 
paid;  interest  upon  the  remaining  third  was  deferred  for  ten 
years,  and  only  three  per  cent,  has  been  allowed  upon  the 
arrears  of  interest,  making  one- third  of  the  whole  debt. 

In  the  case  of  the  separate  debts  of  the  States,  interest  upon 
four-ninths  only  of  the  entire  sum  is  immediately  paid ;  interest 
upon  two-ninths  was  deferred  for  ten  years,  and  only  three  per 
cent,  allowed  on  three-ninths. 

The  market  rate  of  interest  at  the  time  of  adopting  the  fund- 
ing system,  was  6  per  cent.  Computing,  according  to  this  rate 
of  interest,  the  then  present  value  of  100  dollars  of  debt,  upon 
an  average,  principal  and  interest,  was  about  73  dollars. 

And  the  present  actual  value,  in  the  market,  of  100  dollars, 
as  the  several  kinds  of  stock  are  sold,  is  no  more  than  83  dol- 
lars and  61  cents.  This  computation  is  not  made  on  equal  sums 
of  the  several  kinds  of  stock,  according  to  which  the  average 
value  of  100  dollars  would  be  only  78  dollars  and  75  cents ;  but 
it  is  made  on  the  proportions  which  constitute  the  mass  of  the 
debt. 

At  73  to  100,  the  diminution  on  60,000,000  is  16,200,000 
dollars ;  at  83  dollars  and  61  cents  to  100,  it  is  9,831,000  dollars. 

But  as  the  United  States,  having  a  right  to  redeem  in  cer- 


252  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JBr. 38- 

tain  proportions,  need  never  give  more  than  par  for  the  6  per 
cents.,  the  diminution  to  them,  as  purchasers  at  the  present 
market  prices,  is  12,168,000  dollars. 

If  it  be  said  that  the  United  States  are  engaged  to  pay  the 
whole  sum,  at  the  nominal  value,  the  answer  is,  that  they  are 
always  at  liberty,  if  they  have  the  means,  to  purchase  at  the 
market  prices ;  and  in  all  those  purchases  they  gain  the  differ- 
ence between  the  nominal  sums  and  the  lesser  market  rates. 

If  the  whole  debt  had  been  provided  for  at  6  per  cent.,  the 
market  rate  of  interest  when  the  funding  system  passed,  the 
market  value  throughout  would  undoubtedly  have  been  100  for 
100=  The  debt  may  then  rather  be  said  to  have  been  artificially 
decreased  by  the  nature  of  the  provision. 

The  conclusion  from  the  whole  is  that,  assuming  it  as  a  prin- 
ciple that  the  public  debts  of  the  different  descriptions  were 
honestly  to  be  provided  for  and  paid,  it  is  the  reverse  of  true 
that  there  has  been  an  artificial  increase  of  them.  To  argue  on 
a  different  principle,  is  to  presuppose  dishonesty,  and  make  it 
an  objection  to  doing  right. 

Objection  2. — This  accumulation  of  debt  has  taken  for  ever 
out  of  our  power  those  easy  resources  of  revenue  which,  applied 
to  the  ordinary  necessities  and  exigencies  of  government,  would 
have  animated  them  habitually,  and  covered  us  from  habitual 
murmurings  against  taxes  and  tax-gatherers — reserving  extraor- 
dinary calls  for  extraordinary  occasions,  would  animate  the 
people  to  meet  them. 

Answer. — There  having  been  no  accumulation  of  debt,  if 
what  is  here  pretended  to  have  been  the  consequence  were  true, 
it  would  only  be  to  be  regretted  as  the  unavoidable  consequence 
of  an  unfortunate  state  of  things.  But  the  supposed  consequence 
does  by  no  means  exist.  The  only  sources  of  taxation  which 
have  been  touched  are  imported  articles,  and  the  single  internal 
object  of  distilled  spirits;  lands,  houses,  the  great  mass  of  per- 
sonal as  well  as  the  whole  of  real  property,  remain  essentially 
free. 

In  short,  the  chief  sources  of  taxation  are  free  for  extraordi- 


Mt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  253 

nary  conjunctures,  and  it  is  one  of  the  distinguishing  merits  of 
the  system  which  has  been  adopted,  that  it  has  rendered  this  far 
more  the  case  than  it  was  before.  It  is  only  to  look  into  the 
different  States  to  be  convinced  of  it.  In  most  of  them,  real 
estate  is  wholly  exempted.  In  some,  very  small  burdens  rest 
upon  it  for  the  purpose  of  the  internal  governments.  In  all,  the 
burdens  of  the  people  have  been  lightened.  It  is  a  mockery  of 
truth  to  represent  the  United  States  as  a  community  burdened 
and  exhausted  by  taxes. 

Objection  3. — That  the  calls  for  money  have  been  no 
greater  than  we  must  generally  expect,  for  the  same  or  equiva- 
lent exigencies ;  yet  we  are  already  obliged  to  strain  the  impost 
till  it  produces  clamor,  and  will  produce  evasion,  and  war  on 
our  citizens  to  collect  it,  and  even  to  resort  to  an  excise  law,  of 
odious  character  with  the  people,  partial  in  its  operation,  unpro- 
ductive unless  enforced  by  arbitrary  and  vexatious  means,  and 
committing  the  authority  of  the  government,  in  parts  where  re- 
sistance is  most  probable  and  coercion  least  practicable. 

Answer. — This  is  mere  painting  and  exaggeration.  With 
the  exception  of  a  very  few  articles,  the  duties  on  imports  are  still 
moderate — lower  than  in  any  other  country  of  whose  regulations 
we  have  knowledge,  except,  perhaps,  Holland,  where,  having 
few  productions  or  commodities  of  their  own,  their  export  trade 
depends  on  the  exportation  of  foreign  articles. 

It  is  true  the  merchants  have  complained ;  but  so  they  did  of 
the  first  impost  law,  for  a  time ;  and  so  men  always  will  do  at  an 
augmentation  of  taxes  which  touch  the  business  they  carry  on, 
especially  in  a  country  where  no,  or  scarcely  any,  such  taxes  be- 
fore existed.  The  collection,  it  is  not  doubted,  will  be  essentially 
secure.  Evasions  have  existed,  in  a  degree,  and  will  continue 
to  exist.  Perhaps  they  may  be  somewhat  increased,  to  what 
extent  can  only  be  determined  by  experience ;  but  there  are  no 
symptoms  to  induce  an  opinion  that  they  will  materially  increase. 
As  to  the  idea  of  a  war  upon  the  citizens  to  collect  the  impost 
duties,  it  can  only  be  regarded  as  a  figure  of  rhetoric. 

The  excise  law,  no  doubt,  is  a  good  topic  of  declamation ; 


254  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  35. 

but  can  it  be  doubted  that  it  is  an  excellent  and  a  very  fit  mean 
of  revenue  ? 

As  to  the  partiality  of  its  operation,  it  is  no  more  so  than  any 
other  tax  on  a  consumable  commodity,  adjusting  itself  upon  ex- 
actly the  same  principles.  The  consumer,  in  the  main,  pays  the 
tax ;  and  if  some  parts  of  the  United  States  consume  more  do- 
mestic spirits,  others  consume  more  foreign,  and  both  are  taxed. 
There  is  perhaps,  upon  the  whole,  no  article  of  more  general  and 
equal  consumption  than  distilled  spirits. 

As  to  its  unproductiveness,  unless  enforced  by  arbitrary  and 
vexatious  means,  facts  testify  the  contrary.  Already,  under  all 
the  obstacles  arising  from  its  novelty  and  the  prejudices  against 
it  in  some  States,  it  has  been  considerably  productive ;  and  it  is 
not  enforced  by  any  arbitrary  or  vexatious  means ;  at  least,  the 
precautions  in  the  existing  laws  for  the  collection  of  the  tax  will 
not  appear  in  that  light  but  to  men  who  regard  all  taxes,  and  all 
the  means  of  enforcing  them,  as  arbitrary  and  vexatious. 

Here,  however,  there  is  abundant  room  for  fancy  to  operate. 
The  standard  is  in  the  mind,  and  different  minds  will  have 
different  standards. 

The  observation  relating  to  the  commitment  of  the  authority 
of  the  government,  in  parts  where  assistance  is  most  probable 
and  coercion  least  practicable,  has  more  weight  than  any  other 
part  of  this  objection.  It  must  be  confessed  that  a  hazard  of  this 
nature  has  been  run ;  but  if  there  were  motives  sufficiently  co- 
gent for  it,  it  was  wisely  run.  It  does  not  follow  that  a  measure 
is  bad  because  it  is  attended  with  a  degree  of  danger. 

The  general  inducements  to  a  provision  for  the  public  debt, 
are: 

1.  To  preserve  the  public  faith  and  integrity,  by  fulfilling,  as 
far  as  was  practicable,  the  public  engagements. 

2.  To  manifest  a  due  respect  for  property,  by  satisfying  the 
public  obligations  in  the  hands  of  the  public  creditors,  and  which 
were  as  much  their  property  as  their  houses  or  their  lands,  their 
hats  or  their  coats. 

3.  To  revive  and  establish  public  credit,  the  palladium  of 
public  safety. 


;Et.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  255 

4.  To  preserve  the  government  itself,  by  showing  it  worthy 
of  the  confidence  which  was  placed  in  it ;  to  procure  to  the  com- 
munity the  blessings  which  in  innumerable  ways  attend  confi- 
dence in  the  government,  and  to  avoid  the  evils  which  in  as 
many  ways  attend  the  want  of  confidence  in  it. 

The  particular  inducements  to  an  assumption  of  the  State 
debts,  were: 

1.  To  consolidate  the  finances  of  the  country,  and  give  an 
assurance  of  permanent  order  in  them ;  avoiding  the  collision  of 
thirteen,  different  and  independent  systems  of  finance  under  con- 
current and  coequal  authorities,  and  the  scrambling^  for  revenue 
which  would  have  been  incident  to  so  many  different  systems. 

2.  To  secure  to  the  government  of  the  Union,  by  avoiding 
those  entanglements,  an  effectual  command  of  the  resources  of 
the  Union  for  present  and  future  exigencies. 

3.  To  equalize  the  condition  of  the  citizens  of  the  several  States 
in  the  important  article  of  taxation ;  rescuing  a  part  of  them  from 
being  oppressed  with  burdens  beyond  their  strength,  on  account 
of  extraordinary  exertions  in  the  war,  and  through  the  want  of 
certain  adventitious  resources  which  it  was  the  good  fortune  of 
others  to  possess. 

A  mind  naturally  attached  to  order  and  system,  and  capable 
of  appreciating  their  immense  value,  unless  misled  by  particular 
feelings,  is  struck  at  once  with  the  prodigious  advantages  which 
in  the  course  of  time  must  attend  such  a  simplification  of  the 
financial  affairs  of  the  country  as  results  from  placing  all  the 
parts  of  the  public  debt  upon  one  footing,  under  one  direction, 
regulated  by  one  provision.  The  want  of  this  sound  policy  has 
been  a  continual  source  of  disorder  and  embarrassment  in  the 
affairs  of  the  United  Netherlands. 

The  true  justice  of  the  case  of  the  public  debt  consists  in  that 
equalization  of  the  condition  of  the  citizens  of  all  the  States  which 
must  arise  from  a  consolidation  of  the  debt  and  common  contri- 
butions towards  its  extinguishment.  Little  inequalities  as  to  the 
past  can  bear  no  comparison  with  the  more  lasting  inequalities 
which,  without  the  assumption,  would  have  characterized  the  fu- 
ture condition  of  the  people  of  the  United  States,  leaving  upon 


256  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  35 

those  who  had  done  most,  or  suffered  most,  a  great  additional 
weight  of  burden. 

If  the  foregoing  inducements  to  a  provision  for  the  public 
debt  (including  an  assumption  of  the  State  debts)  were  sufficiently 
cogent,  then  the  justification  of  the  excise  laws  lies  within  a  nar- 
row compass.  Some  further  source  of  revenue,  besides  the 
duties  on  imports,  was  indispensable,  and  none  equally  pro- 
ductive would  have  been  so  little  exceptionable  to  the  mass  of 
the  people. 

Other  reasons  co-operated  in  the  minds  of  some  able  men  to 
render  an  excise  at  an  early  period  desirable.  They  thought  it 
well  to  lay  hold  of  so  valuable  a  resource  of  revenue  before  it 
was  generally  preoccupied  by  the  State  governments.  They 
supposed  it  not  amiss  that  the  authority  of  the  national  govern- 
ment should  be  visible  in  some  branch  of  internal  revenue,  lest  a 
total  non-exercise  of  it  should  beget  an  impression  that  it  was 
never  to  be  exercised,  and  next,  that  it  ought  not  to  be  exer- 
cised. It  was  supposed,  too,  that  a  thing  of  the  kind  could  not 
be  introduced  with  a  greater  prospect  of  easy  success  than  at  a 
period  when  the  government  enjoyed  the  advantage  of  first  im- 
pressions, when  State  factions  to  resist  its  authority  were  not  yet 
matured,  when  so  much  aid  was  to  be  derived  from  the  popu- 
larity and  firmness  of  the  actual  Chief  Magistrate. 

Facts  hitherto  do  not  indicate  the  measure  to  have  been  rash 
or  ill  advised.  The  law  is  in  operation  with  perfect  acquiescence 
in  all  the  States  north  of  New- York,  though  they  contribute 
most  largely.  In  New- York  and  New  Jersej"  it  is  in  full  opera- 
tion, with  some  very  partial  complainings  fast  wearing  away. 
In  the  greater  part  of  Pennsylvania  it  is  in  operation,  and  with 
increasing  good  humor  towards  it.  The  four  western  counties 
continue  exceptions.  In  Delaware  it  has  had  some  struggle, 
which,  by  the  last  accounts,  was  surmounted.  In  Maryland  and 
Virginia  it  is  in  operation,  and  without  material  conflict.  In 
South  Carolina  it  is  now  in  pretty  full  operation,  though  in  the 
interior  parts  it  has  had  some  serious  opposition  to  overcome.  In 
Georgia  no  material  difficulty  has  been  experienced.  North 
Carolina,  Kentucky,  and  the  four  western  counties  of  Pennsyl- 


^t.  35.]'  CABINET    PAPERS.  257 

vania,  present  the  only  remaining  impediments  of  any  conse- 
quence to  the  full  execution  of  the  law.  The  latest  advices  from 
North  Carolina  and  Kentucky,  were  more  favorable  than  the 
former. 

It  may  be  added  as  a  well  established  fact,  that  the  effect  of 
the  law  has  been  to  encourage  new  enterprises  in  most  of  the 
States  in  the  business  of  domestic  distillation.  A  proof  that  it 
is  perceived  to  operate  favorably  to  the  manufacture,  and  that 
the  measure  cannot  long  remain  unpopular  any  where. 

Objection  4. — Propositions  have  been  made  in  Congress^ 
and  projects  are  on  foot  still  to  increase  the  mass  of  the  debt. 

Answer. — Propositions  have  been  made,  and  no  doubt  will  be 
renewed  by  the  States  interested,  to  complete  the  assumption  of 
the  State  debts.  This  would  add  in  the  first  instance  to  the  mass 
of  the  debt  of  the  United  States  between  three  and  four  millions  of 
dollars,  but  it  would  not  increase  the  mass  of  the  public  debt  at 
all.  It  would  only  transfer  from  particular  States  to  the  Union 
debts  which  already  exist,  and  which,  if  the  States  indebted  are 
honest,  must  be  provided  for.  It  happens  that  Massachusetts 
and  South  Carolina  would  be  chiefly  benefited.  And  there  is  a 
moral  certainty  that  Massachusetts  will  have  a  balance  in  her 
favor  more  than  equal  to  her  remaining  debt,  and  a  probability 
that  South  Carolina  will  have  a  balance  sufficient  to  cover  hers. 
So  that  there  is  not  likely  to  be  an  eventual  increase  even  of  the 
debt  of  the  United  States  by  the  further  assumption.  The  im- 
mense exertions  of  Massachusetts  during  the  late  war,  and  par- 
ticularly in  the  late  periods  of  it  when  too  many  of  the  States 
failed  in  their  federal  duty,  are  known  to  every  well  informed 
man.  It  would  not  be  too  strong  to  say,  that  they  were  in  a 
great  degree  the  pivot  of  the  revolution.  The  exertions,  suffer- 
ings, sacrifices,  and  losses  of  South  Carolina,  need  not  be  insisted 
upon. 

The  other  States  have  comparatively  none  or  inconsiderable 

debts.     Can  that  policy  be  condemned  which  aims  at  putting 

the  burdened  States  upon  an  equal  footing  with  the  rest  ?     Can 

that  policy  be  very  liberal  which  resists  so  equitable  an  arrange- 

d  17 


258  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^Et.  35. 

merit?  It  has  been  said  that  if  they  had  exerted  themselves 
since  the  peace,  their  situation  would  have  been  different.  But 
Massachusetts  threw  her  citizens  into  rebellion  by  heavier  taxes 
than  were  paid  in  any  other  State,  and  South  Carolina  has  done 
as  much  since  the  peace  as  could  have  been  expected,  consider- 
ing the  exhausted  state  in  which  the  war  left  her. 

The  only  proposition  during  the  last  session,  or  at  any  antece- 
dent one,  which  would  truly  have  swelled  the  debt  artificially, 
was  one  which  Mr.  Madison  made  in  the  first  session,  and  which 
was  renewed  in  the  last,  and  generally  voted  for  by  those  who 
opposed  the  system  that  has  prevailed.  The  object  of  this  pro- 
position was,  that  all  the  parts  of  the  State  debts  which  have 
been  paid,  or  otherwise  absorbed  by  them,  should  be  assumed 
for  the  benefit  of  the  States  and  funded  by  the  United  States. 
This  measure,  if  it  had  succeeded,  would  truly  have  produced  an 
immense  artificial  increase  of  the  debt,  but  it  has  twice  failed, 
and  there  is  no  probability  that  it  will  ever  succeed. 

Objection  5. — They  say  that  by  borrowing  at  two-thirds  of 
the  interest,  we  might  have  paid  off  the  principal  in  two-thirds 
of  the  time,  but  that  from  this  we  are  precluded  by  its  being 
made  irredeemable  but  in  small  portions  and  long  terms. 

Answer. — First.  All  the  foreign  loans  which  were  made  by 
the  United  States  prior  to  the  present  government,  taking  into 
the  calculation  charges  and  premiums,  cost  them  more  than  six 
per  cent.  Since  the  establishment  of  the  present  government, 
they  borrowed  first  at  about  five  and  a  quarter,  including  charges, 
and  since,  at  about  four  and  a  quarter,  including  charges.  And 
it  is  questionable,  in  the  present  state  of  Europe,  whether  they 
can  obtain  any  further  loans  at  so  low  a  rate. 

The  system  which  is  reprobated  is  the  very  cause  that  we  have 
been  able  to  borrow  on  so  good  terms.  If  one  that  would  have 
inspired  less  confidence,  certainly  if  the  substitutes  which  have 
been  proposed,  from  a  certain  quarter,  had  obtained,  we  could 
not  have  procured  loans  even  at  six  per  cent.  The  Dutch  were 
largely  adventurers  in  our  domestic  debt  before  the  present  gov- 
ernment.    They  did  not  embark  far  till  they  had  made  inquiries 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  259 

of  influential  public  characters,  as  to  the  light  in  which  the  debt 
was  and  would  be  considered  in  the  hands  of  alienees — and  had 
received  assurance  that  assignees  would  be  regarded  in  the  same 
light  as  original  holders.  What  would  have  been  the  state  of 
our  credit  with  them,  if  they  had  been  disappointed,  or  indeed  if 
our  conduct  had  been  in  any  respect  inconsistent  with  the  notions 
entertained  in  Europe  concerning  the  maxims  of  public  credit  ? 

The  inference  is,  that  our  being  able  to  borrow  on  low  terms 
is  a  consequence  of  the  system,  which  is  the  object  of  censure, 
and  that  the  thing  itself,  which  is  made  the  basis  of  another  sys- 
tem, would  not  have  existed  under  it. 

Secondly.  It  will  not  be  pretended  that  we  could  have  bor- 
rowed at  the  proposed  low  rate  of  interest  in  the  United  States ; 
and  all  our  exertions  to  borrow  in  Europe,  which  have  been 
unremitted,  as  occasions  presented,  have  not  hitherto  produced 

above dollars,  not  even  a  sufficient  sum  to  change  the 

form  of  our  foreign  debt. 

Thirdly.  If  it  were  possible  to  borrow  the  whole  sum  abroad 
within  a  short  period,  to  pay  off  our  debt,  it  is  not  easy  to  ima- 
gine a  more  pernicious  operation  than  this  would  have  been.  It 
would  first  have  transferred  to  foreigners,  by  a  violent  expedient, 
the  whole  amount  of  our  debt ;  and  creating  a  money  plethora  in 
the  country,  a  momentary  scene  of  extravagance  would  have 
followed,  and  the  excess  would  quickly  have  flowed  back ; — the 
evils  of  which  situation  need  not  be  enlarged  upon. 

If  it  be  said  that  the  operation  might  have  been  gradual, 
then  the  end  proposed  would  not  have  been  attained. 

Lastly.  The  plan  which  has  been  adopted  secures,  in  the  first 
instance,  the  identical  advantage  which  in  the  other  plan  would 
have  been  eventual  and  contingent.  It  puts  one-third  of  the  whole 
debt  at  an  interest  of  three  per  cent,  only,  and  by  deferring  the 
payment  of  interest  on  a  third  of  the  remainder,  effectually  re- 
duces the  interest  on  that  part.  It  is  evident  that  a  suspension  of 
interest  is  in  fact  a  reduction  of  interest.  The  money  which 
would  go  towards  paying  interest  in  the  interval  of  suspension  is 
an  accumulating  fund,  to  be  applied  towards  payment  of  it  when 
it  becomes  due,  reducing  the  provision  then  to  be  made. 


260  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  35. 

In  reality,  on  the  principles  of  the  funding  system,  the  United 
States  reduced  the  interest  on  their  whole  debt,  upon  an  average, 
to  about  four  and  a  half  per  cent.,  nearly  the  lowest  rate  they 
have  any  chance  to  borrow  at,  and  lower  than  they  could  possi- 
bly have  borrowed  at  in  an  attempt  to  reduce  the  interest  on  the 
whole  capital  by  borrowing  and  paying,  probably  by  one  per  cent. 
A  demand  for  large  loans,  by  forcing  the  market,  would  una- 
voidably have  raised  their  price  upon  the  borrower.  The  above 
average  of  four  and  a  haljEper  ce^t.as  found  by  calculation,  com- 
puting the  then  present  value  of  the  deferred  stock  at  the  time  of 
passing  the  funding  acts,  and  of  course  three  per  cent,  on  the 
three  per  cent,  stock. 

The  funding  system,  then,  secured  in  the  very  outset  the  pre- 
cise advantage  which  it  is  alleged  would  have  accrued  from  having 
the  whole  debt  redeemable  at  pleasure.  But  this  is  not  all.  It 
did  more.  It  left  the  government  still  in  a  condition  to  enjoy 
upon  five-ninths  of  the  entire  debt  the  advantage  of  extinguish- 
ing it,  by  loans  at  a  low  rate  of  interest,  if  they  are  obtainable. 
The  three  per  cents,  which  are  one-third  of  the  whole,  may 
always  be  purchased  in  the  market  below  par,  till  the  market 
rate  of  interest  falls  to  three  per  cent.  The  deferred  will  be  pur- 
chasable below  par,  till  near  the  period  of  the  actual  payment  of 
interest.  And  this  further  advantage  will  result:  in  all  those 
purchases  the  public  will  enjoy,  not  only  the  advantage  of  a  re- 
duction of  interest  on  the  sums  borrowed,  but  the  additional  ad- 
vantage of  purchasing  the  debt  under  par,  that  is,  for  less  than 
twenty  shillings  in  the  pound. 

If  it  be  said  that  the  like  advantage  might  have  been  enjoyed 
under  another  system,  the  assertion  would  be  without  foundation. 
Unless  some  equivalent  had  been  given  for  the  reduction  of  in- 
terest in  the  irredeemable  quality  annexed  to  the  debt,  nothing 
was  left,  consistently  with  the  principles  of  public  credit,  but  to 
provide  for  the  whole  debt  at  six  per  cent.  This  evidently  would 
have  kept  the  whole  at  par,  and  no  advantage  could  have  been 
derived  by  purchases  under  the  nominal  value.  The  reduction 
of  interest,  by  borrowing  at  a  lower  rate,  is  all  that  would  have 
been  practicable,  and  this  advantage  has  been  secured  by  the 


jEt.35.]  cabinet    papers.  261 

funding  system  in  the  very  outset,   and  without  any  second 
process. 

If  no  provision  for  the  interest  had  been  made,  not  only  pub- 
lic credit  would  have  been  sacrificed,  but  by  means  of  it  the  bor- 
rowing at  a  low  rate  of  interest,  or  at  any  rate,  would  have  been 
impracticable. 

There  is  no  reproach  which  has  been  thrown  upon  the  fund- 
ing system  so  unmerited  as  that  which  charges  it  with  being  a 
bad  bargain  for  the  public,  or  with  a  tendency  to  prolong  the 
extinguishment  of  the  debts.  The  bargain  has,  if  any  thing, 
been  too  good  on  the  side  of  the  public  ;  and  it  is  impossible  for 
the  debt  to  be  in  a  more  convenient  form  than  it  is  for  a  rapid 
extinguishment. 

Some  gentlemen  seem  to  forget  that  the  faculties  of  every 
country  are  limited.  They  talk  as  if  the  government  could  ex- 
tend its  revenue  ad  libitum  to  pay  off  the  debt.  Whereas  every 
rational  calculation  of  the  abilities  of  the  country  will  prove,  that 
the  power  of  redemption  which  has  been  reserved  over  the  debt 
is  quite  equal  to  those  abilities,  and  that  a  greater  power  would 
be  useless.  If  happily  the  abilities  of  the  country  should  exceed 
this  estimate,  there  is  nothing  to  hinder  the  surplus  being  em- 
ployed in  purchases.  As  long  as  the  three  per  cents  and  deferred 
exist,  those  purchases  will  be  under  par.  If  for  the  stock  bear- 
ing an  immediate  interest  of  six  per  cent.,  more  than  par  is  given, 
the  government  can  afford  it  from  the  saving  made  in  the  first 
instance. 

Upon  the  whole,  then,  it  is  the  merit  of  the  funding  system 
to  have  conciliated  these  three  important  points — the  restoration 
of  public  credit,  a  reduction  of  the  rate  of  interest,  and  an 
organization  of  the  debt  convenient  for  speedy  extinguish- 
ment 

Objection  6. — That  this  irredeemable  quality  was  given 
to  the  debt  for  the  avowed  purpose  of  inviting  its  transfer  to 
foreign  countries. 

This  assertion  is  a  palpable  misrepresentation.  The  avowed 
purpose  of  that  quality  of  the  debt,  as  explained  in  the  report  of 


262  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  35. 

the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  and  in  the  arguments  in  Congress, 
was  to  give  an  equivalent  for  the  reduction  of  interest,  that  is  for 
deferring  the  payment  of  interest  on  one-third  of  the  principal 
for  three  years,  and  for  allowing  only  three  per  cent,  on  the  ar- 
rears of  interest. 

It  was  indeed  argued,  in  confirmation  of  the  reality  of  the 
equivalent,  that  foreigners  would  be  willing  to  give  more  where 
a  high  rate  of  interest  was  fixed,  than  where  it  was  liable  to 
fluctuate  with  the  market.  And  this  has  been  verified  by  the 
fact — for  the  six  per  cents,  could  not  have  risen  for  a  moment  above 
par,  if  the  rate  could  have  been  lowered  by  redeeming  the 
debt  at  pleasure.  But  the  inviting  of  the  transfer  to  foreigners 
was  never  assigned  as  a  motive  to  the  arrangement, 

And  what  is  more,  that  transfer  will  be  probably  slower  with 
the  portion  of  irredeemability  which  is  attached  to  the  debt  than 
without  it,  because  a  larger  capital  would  be  requisite  to  purchase 
100  dollars  in  the  former  than  in  the  latter  case.  And  the 
capital  of  foreigners  is  limited  as  well  as  our  own. 

It  appears  to  be  taken  for  granted,  that  if  the  debt  had 
not  been  funded  in  its  present  shape,  foreigners  would  not 
have  purchased  it  as  they  now  do ;  than  which  nothing  can  be 
more  ill-founded  or  more  contrary  to  experience.  Under  the  old 
Confederation,  when  there  was  no  provision  at  all,  foreigners  had 
purchased  five  or  six  millions  of  the  debt.  If  any  provision  had 
been  made,  capable  of  producing  confidence,  their  purchases 
would  have  gone  on  just  as  they  now  do  ;  and  the  only  material 
difference  would  have  been  that  what  they  got  from  us  then 
would  have  cost  them  less  than  what  they  now  get  from  us  does 
cost  them.  Whether  it  is  to  the  disadvantage  of  the  country 
that  they  pay  more,  is  submitted. 

Even  a  provision  which  should  not  have  inspired  full  confi- 
dence would  not  have  prevented  foreign  purchases.  The  com- 
modity would  have  been  cheap  in  proportion  to  the  risks  to  be 
run.  And  full-handed  Dutchmen  would  not  have  scrupled  to 
amass  large  sums  for  trifling  considerations,  in  the  hope  that  time 
and  experience  would  introduce  juster  notions  into  the  public 
councils, 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  263 

Our  debt  would  still  have  gone  from  us,  and  with  it  our 
reputation  and  credit. 

Objection  7. — They  predict  that  this  transfer  of  the  principal, 
when  completed,  will  occasion  an  exportation  of  three  millions 
of  dollars  annually  for  the  interest ;  a  drain  of  coin,  of  which,  as 
there  has  been  no  example,  no  calculation  can  be  made  of  its 
consequences. 

Answer. — The  same  gloomy  forebodings  were  heard  in  Eng- 
land in  the  early  periods  of  its  funding  system.  But  they  have 
never  been  realized.  The  money  invested  by  foreigners  in  the 
purchase  of  its  debt,  being  employed  in  its  commerce,  agricul- 
ture and  manufactures,  increased  the  capital  and  wealth  of  the 
nation  more  than  in  proportion  to  the  annual  drain  for  the  pay- 
ment of  interest,  and  created  the  ability  to  bear  it. 

The  objection  seems  to  forget  that  the  debt  is  not  transferred 
for  nothing ;  that  the  capital  paid  for  the  debt  is  always  an 
equivalent  for  the  interest  to  be  paid  to  the  purchaser.  If  that 
capital  is  well  employed  in  a  young  country  like  this,  it  must  be 
considerably  increased,  so  as  to  }Tield  a  greater  revenue  than  the 
interest  of  the  money.  The  country  therefore  will  be  a  gainer 
by  it,  and  will  be  able  to  pay  the  interest  without  inconvenience. 

But  the  objectors  suppose  that  all  the  money  which  comes  in 
goes  out  again,  in  an  increased  consumption  of  foreign  luxuries. 
This,  however,  is  taking  for  granted  what  never  happened  in  any 
industrious  country,  and  what  appearances  among  us  do  not  war- 
rant. The  expense  of  living,  generally  speaking,  is  not  sensibly 
increased.  Large  investments  are  every  day  making  in  ship- 
building, house-building,  manufactures,  and  other  improvements, 
public  and  private. 

The  transfer,  too,  of  the  whole  debt,  is  a  very  improbable 
supposition ;  a  large  part  of  it  will  continue  to  be  owned  by  our 
own  citizens.  And  the  interest  of  that  part  which  is  owned  by 
foreigners  will  not  be  annually  exported,  as  is  supposed.  A 
considerable  part  will  be  invested  in  new  speculations — in  lands, 
canals,  roads,  manufactures,  commerce.  Facts  warrant  this 
supposition.  The  agents  of  the  Dutch  have  actually  made  large 
investments  in  a  variety  of  such  speculations. 


264  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

A  young  country  like  this  is  peculiarly  attractive.  New 
objects  will  be  continually  opening,  and  the  money  of  foreigners 
will  be  made  instrumental  to  their  advancement. 

Objection  8. — That  the  banishment  of  our  coin  will  be  com- 
pleted by  the  creation  of  ten  millions  of  paper  money,  in  the 
form  of  bank  bills,  now  issuing  into  circulation. 

Answer. — This  is  a  mere  hypothesis,  in  which  theorists  dif- 
fer.   There  are  no  decisive  facts  on  which  to  rest  the  question. 

The  supposed  tendency  of  bank  paper  to  banish  specie  is 
from  its  capacity  of  serving  as  a  substitute  for  it  in  circulation. 
But  as  the  quantity  circulated  is  proportioned  to  the  demand  for 
it  in  circulation,  the  presumption  is  that  a  greater  quantity  of 
industry  is  put  in  motion  by  it,  so  as  to  call  for  a  proportionally 
greater  quantity  of  circulating  medium  and  prevent  the  banish- 
ment of  the  specie.  But  however  this  may  be,  it  is  agreed  among 
sound  theorists,  that  banks  more  than  compensate  for  the  loss  of 
the  specie  in  other  ways.  Smith,  who  was  witness  to  their  effects 
in  Scotland,  where  too  a  very  adverse  fortune  attended  some  of 
them,  bears  his  testimony  to  their  beneficial  effects  in  these 
strong  terms  {Wealth  of  Nations )  Yol.  I.  Book  II.  Chap.  11,  pages 
441  to  444). 

Objection  9. — They  think  the  ten  or  twelve  per  cent,  annual 
profit  paid  to  the  lenders  of  this  paper  medium  are  taken  out  of 
the  pockets  of  the  people,  who  would  have  had  without  interest 
the  coin  it  is  banishing. 

Answer. — 1.  The  profits  of  the  bank  have  not  hitherto  ex- 
ceeded the  rate  of  eight  per  cent,  per  annum,  and  perhaps  never 
may.  It  is  questionable  whether  they  can  legally  make  more 
than  ten  per  cent. 

2.  These  profits  can  in  no  just  sense  be  said  to  be  taken  out 
of  the  pockets  of  the  people.  They  are  compounded  of  two 
things — the  interest  paid  by  the  government  on  that  part  of  the 
public  debt  which  is  incorporated  in  the  stock  of  the  bank ;  2d, 
the  interest  paid  by  those  individuals  who  borrow  money  of  the 
bank  on  the  sums  they  borrow. 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  265 

As  to  the  first,  it  is  no  new  grant  to  the  bank.  It  is  the  old 
interest  on  a  part  of  the  old  debt  of  this  country,  substituted  by 
the  proprietors  of  that  debt  towards  constitututing  the  stock  of 
the  bank.  It  would  have  been  equally  payable  if  the  bank  had 
never  existed.  It  is,  therefore,  nothing  new  taken  out  of  the 
pockets  of  the  people. 

As  to  the  second,  it  may  with  equal  propriety  be  said,  when 
one  individual  borrows  money  of  another,  that  the  interest  which 
the  borrower  pays  to  the  lender  is  taken  out  of  the  pockets  of  the 
people.  The  case  here  is  not  only  parallel,  but  the  same.  It  is 
the  case  of  one  or  more  individuals  borrowing  money  of  a  com- 
pany of  individuals  associated  to  lend.  None  but  the  actual 
borrowers  pay  in  either  case ;  the  rest  of  the  community  have 
nothing  to  do  with  it. 

If  a  man  receives  a  bank  bill  for  the  ox  or  the  bushel  of 
wheat  which  he  sells,  he  pays  no  more  interest  upon  it  than  upon 
the  same  sum  in  gold  or  silver,  that  is,  he  pays  none  at  all. 

So  that,  whether  the  paper  banishes  specie  or  not,  it  is  the 
same  thing  to  every  individual  through  whose  hands  it  circulates, 
as  to  the  point  of  interest.  Specie  no  more  than  bank  paper  can 
be  borrowed  without  paying  interest  for  it ;  and  when  either  is 
not  borrowed,  no  interest  is  paid.  As  far  as  the  government  is 
a  sharer  in  the  profits  of  the  bank,  which  is  in  the  proportion  of 
one-fifth,  the  contrary  of  what  is  supposed  happens :  money  is 
put  into  the  pockets  of  the  people. 

All  this  is  so  plain  and  so  palpable,  that  the  assertion  which  is 
made  betrays  extreme  ignorance  or  extreme  disingenuousness. 
It  is  destitute  even  of  color. 

Objection  10. — That  all  the  capital  employed  in  paper 
speculations  is  barren  and  useless,  producing,  like  that  on  a 
gaming-table,  no  accession  to  itself,  and  is  withdrawn  from  com- 
merce and  agriculture,  where  it  would  have  produced  addition 
to  the  common  mass. 

This  is  a  copious  subject,  which  has  been  fully  discussed  in 
the  Eeport  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  on  the  subject  of 
manufactures,  from  page         to  page        .     It  is  true  that  the 


266  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

capital — that  is,  the  specie  which  is  employed  in  paper  specula- 
tion— while  so  employed  is  barren  and  useless,  but  the  paper 
itself  constitutes  a  new  capital,  which,  being  saleable  and  trans- 
ferable at  any  moment,  enables  the  proprietor  to  undertake  any 
piece  of  business  as  well  as  an  equal  sum  in  coin ;  and  as  the 
amount  of  the  debt  circulated  is  much  greater  than  the  amount 
of  the  specie  which  circulates  it,  the  new  capital  put  in  motion 
by  it  considerably  exceeds  the  old  one,  which  is*  suspended,  and 
there  is  more  capital  to  carry  on  the  productive  labor  of  the  so- 
ciety. Every  thing  that  has  value  is  capital — an  acre  of  ground, 
a  horse,  or  a  cow,  or  a  public  or  private  obligation,  which  may, 
with  different  degrees  of  convenience,  be  applied  to  industrious 
enterprise.  That  which,  like  public  stock,  can  at  any  instant  be 
turned  into  money,  is  of  equal  utility  with  money  as  capital. 
Let  it  be  examined,  whether  at  those  places  where  there  is  most 
debt  afloat,  and  most  money  employed  in  its  circulation,  there  is 
not  at  the  same  time  a  greater  plenty  of  money  for  every  other 
purpose.     It  will  be  found  that  there  is. 

But  it  is  in  fact  quite  immaterial  to  the  government,  as  far  as 
regards  the  propriety  of  its  measures. 

The  debt  existed ;  it  was  to  be  provided  for.  In  whatever 
shape  the  provision  was  made,  the  object  of  speculation  and  the 
speculation  would  have  existed.  Nothing  but  abolishing  the 
debt  could  have  obviated  it.  It  is,  therefore,  the  fault  of  the 
Eevolution,  not  of  the  government,  that  paper  speculation  exists. 
An  unsound  or  precarious  provision  would  have  increased  this 
species  of  speculation  in  its  most  odious  forms ;  the  defects  and 
casualties  of  the  system  would  have  been  as  much  subjects  of 
speculation  as  the  debt  itself. 

The  difference  is,  that  under  a  bad  system  the  public  stock 
would  have  been  too  uncertain  an  article  to  be  a  substitute  for 
money,  and  all  the  money  emploj^ed  in  it  would  have  been  di- 
verted from  useful  employment,  without  any  thing  to  compen- 
sate for  it.  Under  a  good  system,  the  stock  becomes  more  than 
a  substitute  for  the  money  employed  in  negotiating  it. 

Objection  11. — Paper  Speculations.  That  it  nourishes  in  our 
citizens  vice  and  idleness,  instead  of  industry  and  morality. 


iET.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  267 

Answer. — This  proposition,  within  certain  limits,  is  true. 
Jobbing  in  the  funds  has  some  bad  effects  among  those  engaged 
in  it.  It  fosters  a  spirit  of  gambling,  and  diverts  a  certain  num- 
ber of  individuals  from  other  pursuits.  But  if  the  proposition  be 
true,  that  stock  operates  as  capital,  the  effect  upon  the  citizens  at 
large  is  different.  It  promotes  among  them  industry,  by  furnish- 
ing a  larger  field  of  employment.  Though  this  effect  of  a  funded 
debt  has  been  called  in  question  in  England  by  some  theorists, 
yet  most  theorists  and  all  practical  men  allow  its  existence.  And 
there  is  no  doubt,  as  already  intimated,  that  if  we  look  into  those 
scenes  among  ourselves  where  the  largest  portions  of  the  debt 
are  accumulated,  we  shall  perceive  that  a  new  spring  has  been 
given  to  industry  in  various  branches. 

But,  be  all  this  as  it  may,  the  observation  made  under  the 
last  head  applies  here.  The  debt  was  the  creature  of  the  Bevo- 
lution.  It  was  to  be  provided  for.  Being  so,  in  whatever  form, 
it  must  have  become  an  object  of  speculation  and  jobbing. 

Objection  12. — The  funding  of  the  debt  has  furnished 
effectual  means  of  corrupting  such  a  portion  of  the  legisla- 
ture as  turns  the  balance  between  the  honest  voters  whichever 
way  it  is  directed. 

Answer. — This  is  one  of  those  assertions  which  can  only  be 
denied,  and  pronounced  to  be  malignant  and  false.  No  facts  ex- 
ist to  support  it,  and  being  a  mere  matter  of  fact,  no  argument 
can  be  brought  to  repel  it. 

The  assertors  beg  the  question.  They  assume  to  them- 
selves, and  to  those  who  think  with  them,  infallibility.  Take 
their  words  for  it,  they  are  the  only  honest  men  in  the  commu- 
nity. But  compare  the  tenor  of  men's  lives,  and  at  least  as  large 
a  portion  of  virtuous  and  independent  characters  will  be  found 
among  those  whom  they  malign  as  among  themselves. 

A  member  of  a  majority  of  the  legislature  would  say  to  these 
defamers,  "  In  your  vocabulary,  gentlemen,  Creditor  and  Enemy 
appear  to  be  synonymous  terms;  the  support  of  public  credit, 
and  corruption,  of  similar  import — an  enlarged  and  liberal  con- 
struction of  the  Constitution,  for  the  public  good  and  for  the 


268  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  (\Et.  35. 

maintenance  of  the  due  energy  of  the  national  authority,  of  the 
same  meaning  with  usurpation  and  a  conspiracy  to  overturn 
the  republican  government  of  the  country — every  man  of  a  dif- 
ferent opinion  from  your  own,  an  ambitious  despot  or  a  corrupt 
knave.  You  bring  every  thing  to  the  standard  of  your  narrow 
and  depraved  ideas,  and  you  condemn  without  mercy  or  even 
decency  whatever  does  not  accord  with  it.  Every  man  who  is  either 
too  short  or  too  long  for  your  political  couch,  must  be  stretched  or 
lopped  to  suit  it.  But  your  pretensions  must  be  rejected  ;  your 
insinuations  despised.  Your  politics  originate  in  immorality, 
in  a  disregard  of  the  maxims  of  good  faith  and  the  rights  of 
property,  and  if  they  could  prevail,  must  end  in  national  disgrace 
and  confusion.  Your  rules  of  construction  for  the  authorities, 
vested  in  the  government  of  the  Union,  would  arrest  all  its  essen- 
tial movements,  and  bring  it  back  in  practice  to  the  same  state  of 
imbecility  which  rendered  the  old  confederation  contemptible. 
Your  principles  of  liberty  are  principles  of  licentiousness  incom- 
patible with  all  government.  You  sacrifice  every  thing  that  is 
venerable  and  substantial  in  society  to  the  vain  reveries  of  a 
false  and  new-fangled  philosophy.  As  to  the  motives  by  which 
I  have  been  influenced,  I  leave  my  general  conduct  in  private 
and  public  life  to  speak  for  them. — Go  and  learn  among  my 
fellow-citizens  whether  I  have  not  uniformly  maintained  the 
character  of  an  honest  man.  As  to  the  love  of  liberty  and 
country,  you  have  given  no  stronger  proofs  of  being  actuated  by 
it  than  I  have  done — cease,  then,  to  arrogate  to  yourself  and  to 
your  party  all  the  patriotism  and  virtue  of  the  country.  Ee- 
nounce,  if  you  can,  the  intolerant  spirit  by  which  you  are 
governed,  and  begin  to  reform  yourself,  instead  of  reprobating 
others,  by  beginning  to  doubt  of  your  own  infallibility." 

Such  is  the  answer  which  would  naturally  be  given  by  a 
member  of  the  majority  of  the  legislature  to  such  an  objection. 
And  it  is  the  only  one  that  could  be  given,  until  some  evidence 
of  the  supposed  corruption  should  be  produced. 

As  far  as  I  know  there  is  not  a  member  of  the  legislature 
who  can  properly  be  called  a  stock-jobber  or  a  paper-dealer. 
There  are  several  of  them  who  were  proprietors  of  public  debt 


JEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  269 

in  various  ways;  some  for  money  lent  and  property  furnished 
for  the  use  of  the  public  during  the  war,  others  for  sums  received 
in  payment  of  debts,  and  it  is  supposable  enough  that  some  of 
them  had  been  purchasers  of  the  public  debt,  with  intention  to 
hold  it  as  a  valuable  and  convenient  propert}^,  considering  an 
honorable  provision  for  it  as  a  matter  of  course. 

It  is  a  strange  perversion  of  ideas,  and  as  novel  as  it  is  extra- 
ordinary, that  men  should  be  deemed  corrupt  and  criminal  for 
becoming  proprietors  in  the  funds  of  their  country.  Yet  I 
believe  the  number  of  members  of  Congress  is  very  small  who 
have  ever  been  considerable  proprietors  in  the  funds.  As  to 
improper  speculations  on  measures  depending  before  Congress,  I 
believe  never  was  any  body  of  men  freer  from  them. 

There  are,  indeed,  several  members  of  Congress  who  have 
become  proprietors  in  the  Bank  of  the  United  States,  and  a  few 
of  them  to  a  pretty  large  amount,  say  50  or  60  shares.  But  all 
operations  of  this  kind  were  necessarily  subsequent  to  the  deter- 
mination upon  the  measure ;  the  subscriptions  were  of  course 
subsequent,  and  purchases  still  more  so.  Can  there  be  any  thing 
really  blamable  in  this?  Can  it  be  culpable  to  invest  pro- 
perty in  an  institution  which  has  been  established  for  the  most 
important  national  purposes  ?  Can  that  property  be  supposed  to 
corrupt  the  holder  ?  It  would  indeed  tend  to  render  him  friend- 
ly to  the  preservation  of  the  bank ;  but  in  this,  there  would  be 
no  collision  between  duty  and  interest,  and  it  would  give  him  no 
improper  bias  on  other  questions. 

To  uphold  public  credit,  and  to  be  friendly  to  the  bank,  must 
be  presupposed  to  be  corrupt  things,  before  the  being  a  proprie- 
tor in  the  funds,  or  of  bank  stock,  can  be  supposed  to  have  a 
corrupting  influence.  The  being  a  proprietor,  in  either  case,  is  a 
very  different  thing  from  being,  in  a  proper  sense  of  the  term,  a 
stock-jobber. 

On  this  point  of  the  corruption  of  the  legislature,  one  more 
observation  of  great  weight  remains.  Those  who  oppose  a  funded 
debt,  and  mean  any  provision  for  it,  contemplate  an  annual  one. 

Now  it  is  impossible  to  conceive  a  more  fruitful  source  of  le- 
gislative corruption  than  this.  All  the  members  of  it  who  should 


270  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

incline  to  speculate,  would  have  an  annual  opportunity  of  specu- 
lating upon  their  influence  in  the  legislature  to  promote  or  re- 
tard, or  put  off  a  provision.  Every  session  the  question  whether 
the  annual  provision  should  be  continued,  would  be  an  occasion 
of  pernicious  caballing  and  corrupt  bargaining.  In  this  very 
view,  when  the  subject  was  in  deliberation,  it  was  impossible  not 
to  wish  it  decided  upon  once  for  all,  and  out  of  the  way. 

Objection  13. — The  corrupt  squadron  deciding  the  voice  of 
the  legislature,  have  manifested  their  dispositions  to  get  rid  of 
the  limitations  imposed  by  the  Constitution  on  the  general  legis- 
lature ;  limitations,  on  the  faith  of  which  the  States  acceded  to  that 
instrument. 

Here  again  the  objectors  beg  the  question.  They  take  it 
for  granted  that  the  instructions  of  the  Constitution  are  right,  and 
that  the  opposite  ones  are  wrong ;  and  with  great  good  nature 
and  candor  ascribe  the  effect  of  a  difference  of  opinion  to  a  dispo- 
sition to  get  rid  of  the  limitations  on  the  government. 

Those  who  have  advocated  the  constructions  which  have  ob- 
tained, have  met  their  opponents  on  the  ground  of  fair  argument, 
and  they  think  have  refuted  them.  How  shall  it  be  deter- 
mined which  side  is  right  ? 

There  are  some  things  which  the  general  government  has 
clearly  a  right  to  do.  There  are  others,  which  it  has  clearly  no 
right  to  meddle  with ;  and  there  is  a  good  deal  of  middle  ground, 
about  which  honest  and  well-disposed  men  may  differ.  The 
most  that  can  be  said  is,  that  some  of  this  middle  ground  may 
have  been  occupied  by  the  national  legislature  ;  and  this  surely 
is  no  evidence  of  a  disposition  to  get  rid  of  the  limitations  in  the 
Constitution,  nor  can  it  be  viewed  in  that  light  by  men  of 
candor. 

The  truth  is,  one  description  of  men  is  disposed  to  do  the  es- 
sential business  of  the  nation,  by  a  liberal  construction  of  the 
powers  of  the  government;  another,  from  disaffection,  would 
fritter  away  those  powers ;  a  third,  from  an  overweening  jealousy, 
would  do  the  same  thing ;  a  fourth,  from  party  and  personal  op- 
position, are  torturing  the  Constitution  into  objections  to  every 
thing  they  do  not  like. 


jEt.  35.]  cabinet   papers.  271 

The  bank  is  one  of  the  measures  which  is  deemed  by  some 
the  greatest  stretch  of  power,  and  yet  its  constitutionality  has 
been  established  in  the  most  satisfactory  manner. 

And  the  most  incorrigible  theorist  among  its  opponents 
would,  in  one  month's  experience,  as  head  of  the  department  of 
the  Treasury,  be  compelled  to  acknowledge  that  it  is  an  absolute- 
ly indispensable  engine  in  the  management  of  the  finances,  and 
would  quickly  become  a  convert  to  its  perfect  constitutionality. 

Objection  14. — The  ultimate  object  of  all  this  is,  to  prepare 
the  way  for  a  change  from  the  present  republican  form  of  gov- 
ernment to  that  of  a  monarchy,  of  which  the  British  constitution 
is  to  be  the  model. 

To  this  there  is  no  other  answer  than  a  flat  denial,  except 
this :  that  the  project,  from  its  absurdity,  refutes  itself. 

The  idea  of  introducing  a  monarchy  or  aristocracy  into  this 
country,  by  employing  the  influence  and  force  of  a  govern- 
ment continually  changing  hands,  towards  it,  is  one  of  those 
visionary  things  that  none  but  madmen  could  meditate,  and  that 
no  wise  man  will  believe. 

If  it  could  be  done  at  all,  which  is  utterly  incredible,  it  would 
require  a  long  series  of  time,  certainly  beyond  the  life  of  any  in- 
dividual, to  effect  it.  "Who,  then,  would  enter  into  such  a  plot  ? 
for  what  purpose  of  interest  or  ambition  ? 

To  hope  that  the  people  may  be  cajoled  into  giving  their 
sanctions  to  such  institutions  is  still  more  chimerical.  A  people 
so  enlightened  and  so  diversified  as  the  people  of  this  country, 
can  surely  never  be  brought  to  it,  but  from  convulsions  and  dis- 
orders, in  consequence  of  the  arts  of  popular  demagogues. 

The  truth  unquestionably  is,  that  the  only  path  to  a  sub- 
version of  the  republican  system  of  the  country  is,  by  flattering 
the  prejudices  of  the  people,  and  exciting  their  jealousies  and  ap- 
prehensions, to  throw  affairs  into  confusion,  and  bring  on  civil 
commotion.  Tired  at  length  of  anarchy  or  want  of  government, 
they  may  take  shelter  in  the  arms  of  monarchy  for  repose  and 
security. 

Those,  then,  who  resist  a  confirmation  of  public  order,  are 
the  true  artificers  of  monarchy.     Not  that  this  is  the  intention  of 


272  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

the  generality  of  them.  Yet  it  would  not  be  difficult  to  lay  the 
finger  upon  some  of  their  party  who  may  justly  be  suspected. 
When  a  man,  unprincipled  in  private  life,  desperate  in  his  for- 
tune, bold  in  his  temper,  possessed  of  considerable  talents,  having 
the  advantage  of  military  habits,  despotic  in  his  ordinary  de- 
meanor, known  to  have  scoffed  in  private  at  the  principles  of 
liberty;  when  such  a  man  is  seen  to  mount  the  hobby-horse  of 
popularity,  to  join  in  the  cry  of  danger  to  liberty,  to  take  every 
opportunity  of  embarrassing  the  general  government  and  bring- 
ing it  under  suspicion,  to  flatter  and  fall  in  with  all  the  nonsense 
of  the  zealots  of  the  day ;  it  may  j  ustly  be  suspected  that  his 
object  is  to  throw  things  into  confusion,  that  he  may  "  ride  the 
storm  and  direct  the  whirlwind." 

It  has  aptly  been  observed,  that  Cato  was  the  Tory,  Ccesar  the 
Whig  of  his  day.  The  former  frequently  resisted;  the  latter 
always  flattered  the  follies  of  the  people.  Yet  the  former  per- 
ished with  the  republic — the  latter  destroyed  it. 

No  popular  government  was  ever  without  its  Catilines  and 
its  Cassars : — these  are  its  true  enemies. 

As  far  as  I  am  informed,  the  anxiety  of  those  who  are  calum- 
niated is  to  keep  the  government  in  the  state  in  which  it  is,  which 
they  fear  will  be  no  easy  task,  from  a  natural  tendency  in  the 
state  of  things  to  exalt  the  local  on  the  ruins  of  the  national 
government.  Some  of  them  appear  to  wish,  in  a  constitutional 
way,  a  change  in  the  judiciary  department  of  the  government, 
from  an  apprehension  that  an  orderly  and  effectual  administra- 
tion of  justice  cannot  be  obtained  without  a  more  intimate  con- 
nection between  the  State  and  National  tribunals.  But  even  this 
is  not  an  object  of  any  set  of  men  as  a  party.  There  is  a  differ- 
ence of  opinion  about  it  on  various  grounds,  among  those  who 
have  generally  acted  together.  As  to  any  other  charge  of  con- 
sequence, I  believe  nobody  dreams  of  it. 

'Tis  curious  to  observe  the  anticipations  of  the  different  par- 
ties. One  side  appears  to  believe  that  there  is  a  serious  plot  to 
overturn  the  State  governments,  and  substitute  a  monarchy  to 
the  present  republican  system.  The  other  side  firmly  believes 
that  there  is  a  serious  plot  to  overturn  the  general  government, 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  273 

and  elevate  the  separate  power  of  the  States  upon  its  ruins. 
Both  sides  may  be  equally  wrong,  and  their  mutual  jealousies 
may  be  naturally  causes  of  the  appearances  which  mutually  dis- 
turb them  and  sharpen  them  against  each  other. 

Objection  15. — This  charge,  that  this  was  contemplated  in 
the  Convention,  they  say  is  no  secret,  because  its  partisans  have 
made  none  of  it — to  effect  it  then  was  impracticable ;  but  they 
are  still  eager  after  their  object,  and  are  predisposing  every  thing 
for  its  ultimate  attainment. 

This  is  a  palpable  misrepresentation.  No  man  that  I  know 
of  contemplated  the  introducing  into  this  country  a  monarchy. 
A  very  small  number  (not  more  than  three  or  four)  manifested 
theoretical  opinions  favorable  in  the  abstract  to  a  Constitution 
like  that  of  Great  Britain ;  but  every  one  agreed  that  such  a 
Constitution,  except  as  to  the  general  distribution  of  departments 
and  powers,  was  out  of  the  question  in  reference  to  this  country. 
The  member  who  was  most  explicit  on  this  point  (a  member  from 
New- York)  declared  in  strong  terms,  that  the  republican  theory 
ought  to  be  adhered  to  in  this  country  as  long  as  there  was  any 
chance  of  its  success ;  that  the  idea  of  a  perfect  equality  of  poli- 
tical rights  among  the  citizens,  exclusive  of  all  permanent  or 
hereditary  distinctions,  was  of  a  nature  to  engage  the  good  wishes 
of  every  good  man,  whatever  might  be  his  theoretic  doubts ;  that 
it  merited  his  best  efforts  to  give  success  to  it  in  practice ;  that 
hitherto,  from  an  incompetent  structure  of  the  government,  it 
had  not  had  a  fair  trial,  and  that  the  endeavor  ought  then  to  be 
to  secure  to  it  a  better  chance  of  success  by  a  government  more 
capable  of  energy  and  order. 

There  is  not  a  man  at  present  in  either  branch  of  the  legisla- 
ture who,  that  I  recollect,  had  held  language  in  the  Convention 
favorable  to  monarchy. 

The  basis  therefore  of  this  suggestion  fails. 

Objection  16. — So  many  of  them  have  got  into  the  legisla- 
ture, that,  aided  by  the  corrupt  squadron  of  paper  dealers,  who 
are  at  their  devotion,  they  make  a  majority  in  both  houses. 

This  has  been  answered  above.  Neither  description  of  char- 
d  18 


274  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  35. 

acter  is  to  be  found  in  the  legislature.  In  the  Senate  there  are 
nine  or  ten  who  were  members  of  the  Convention ;  in  the  House 
of  Eepresentatives,  not  more  than  six  or  seven.*  Of  those  who 
are  in  the  last-mentioned  house,  none  can  be  considered  as  influ- 
ential but  Mr.  Madison  and  Mr.  Gerry.  Are  they  monarchy 
men? 

As  to  the  17th,  18th,  and  19th  heads, 

They  are  rather  inferences  from  and  comments  upon  what  is 
before  suggested,  than  specific  objections.  The  answer  to  them 
must  therefore  be  derived  from  what  is  said  under  other  heads. 

It  is  certainly  much  to  be  regretted  that  party  discriminations 
are  so  far  geographical  as  they  have  been,  and  that  ideas  of  a 
severance  of  the  Union  are  creeping  in  both  North  and  South.  In 
the  South,  it  is  supposed  that  more  government  than  is  expedient 
is  desired  by  the  North.  In  the  North,  it  is  believed  that  the 
prejudices  of  the  South  are  incompatible  with  the  necessary  de- 
gree of  government,  and  with  the  attainment  of  the  essential 
ends  of  national  union.  In  both  quarters  there  are  respectable 
men,  who  talk  of  separation  as  a  thing  dictated  by  the  different 
geniuses  and  different  prejudices  of  the  parts.  But  happily  their 
number  is  not  considerable,  and  the  prevailing  sentiment  of  the 
people  is  in  favor  of  their  true  interest,  union.  And  it  is  to  be 
hoped  that  the  efforts  of  wise  men  will  be  able  to  prevent  a 
schism  which  would  be  injurious  in  different  degrees  to  different 
portions  of  the  Union,  but  would  seriously  wound  the  prosperity 
of  all. 

As  to  the  sacrifice  of  Southern  to  Northern  prejudices — if  the 
conflict  has  been  between  prejudices  and  prejudices,  it  is  certainly 
to  be  wished,  for  mutual  gratification,  that  there  had  been  mutual 
concession ;  but  if  the  conflict  has  been  between  great  and  sub- 
stantial national  objects  on  the  one  hand,  and  theoretical  preju- 
dices on  the  other,  it  is  difficult  to  desire  that  the  former  should 
in  any  instance  have  yielded. 


Objection  20. — The  owners  of  the  debt  are  in  the  Southern 
and  the  holders  of  it  in  the  Northern  division. 

*  This  computation  is  from  memory. 


i 


jEt.35.]  cabinet   papers.  275 

Answer. — If  this  were  literally  true,  it  would  be  no  argu- 
ment for  or  against  any  thing.  It  would  be  still  politically  and 
morally  right  for  the  debtors  to  pay  their  creditors. 

But  it  is  in  no  sense  true.  The  oioers  of  the  debt  are  the  peo- 
ple of  every  State,  South,  Middle,  and  North.  The  holders  are 
the  individual  creditors — citizens  of  the  United  Netherlands, 
Great  Britain,  France,  and  of  these  States,  North,  Middle,  South. 
Though  some  men,  who  constantly  substitute  hypothesis  to  fact, 
imagination  to  evidence,  assert  and  reassert  that  the  inhabitants 
of  the  South  contribute  more  than  those  of  the  North,  yet  there  is 
no  pretence  that  they  contribute  all;  and  even  the  assertion  of 
greater  contribution  is  unsupported  by  documents,  facts,  or,  it 
may  be  added,  probabilities.  Though  the  inhabitants  of  the  South 
manufacture  less  than  those  of  the  North,  which  is  the  great  ar- 
gument, yet  it  does  not  follow  that  they  consume  more  of  taxable 
articles.  It  is  a  solid  answer  to  this,  that  whites  live  better,  wear 
more  and  better  clothes,  and  consume  more  luxuries,  than  blacks, 
who  constitute  so  considerable  a  part  of  the  population  of  the 
South.  That  the  inhabitants  of  cities  and  towns,  which  abound  so 
much  more  in  the  North  than  in  the  South,  consume  more  of  for- 
eign articles  than  the  inhabitants  of  the  country.  That  it  is  a  gen- 
eral rule,  that  communities  consume  and  contribute  in  proportion 
to  their  active  or  circulating  wealth,  and  that  the  Northern  re- 
gions have  more  active  or  circulating  wealth  than  the  Southern. 

If  official  documents  are  consulted,  though,  for  obvious  rea- 
sons, they  are  not  decisive,  they  contradict  rather  than  confirm 
the  Irypothesis  of  greater  proportional  contribution  in  the  South- 
ern division. 

But,  to  make  the  allegation  in  the  objection  true,  it  is  neces- 
sary not  merely  that  the  inhabitants  of  the  South  should  con- 
tribute more,  but  that  they  should  contribute  all. 

It  must  be  confessed  that  a  much  larger  proportion  of  the 
debt  is  owned  by  inhabitants  of  the  States  from  Pennsylvania  to 
New  Hampshire  inclusively,  than  in  the  States  south  of  Pennsyl- 
vania. 

But  as  to  the  primitive  debt  of  the  United  States,  that  was 
the  case  in  its  original  concoction.     This  arose  from  two  causes ; 


276  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

first,  from  the  war  having  more  constantly  been  carried  on  in  the 
Northern  quarter,  which  led  to  obtaining  more  men  and  greater 
supplies  in  that  quarter,  and  credit  having  been  for  a  considera- 
ble time  the  main  instrument  of  the  government,  a  consequent 
accumulation  of  debt  in  that  quarter  took  place.  Secondly,  from 
the  greater  ability  of  the  Northern  and  Middle  States  to  furnish 
men,  money,  and  other  supplies,  and  from  the  greater  quantities 
of  men,  money,  and  other  supplies  which  they  did  furnish.  The 
loan  office  debt,  the  army  debt,  the  debt  of  the  five  great  depart- 
ments, was  contracted  in  a  much  larger  proportion  in  the  North- 
ern and  Middle,  than  in  the  Southern  States. 

It  must  be  confessed,  too,  that  by  the  attraction  of  a  superior 
moneyed  capital  the  disparity  has  increased,  but  it  was  great  in 
the  beginning. 

As  to  the  assumed  debt,  the  proportion  in  the  South  was  at 
the  first  somewhat  larger  than  in  the  North,  and  it  must  be  ac- 
knowledged that  this  has  since,  from  the  same  superiority  of 
moneyed  capital  in  the  North,  ceased  to  be  the  case. 

But  if  the  Northern  people  who  were  originally  greater 
creditors  than  the  Southern,  have  become  still  more  so  as  pur- 
chasers, is  it  any  reason  that  an  honorable  provision  should  not 
be  made  for  their  debt  ?  Or  is  the  government  to  blame  for 
having  made  it  ?  Did  the  Northern  people  take  their  property 
by  violence  from  the  Southern,  or  did  they  purchase  and  pay 
for  it  ? 

It  may  be  answered  that  they  obtained  considerable  part  of 
it  by  speculation,  taking  advantage  of  superior  opportunities  of 
information. 

But  admitting  this  to  be  true  in  all  the  latitude  in  which  it  is 
commonly  stated,  is  a  government  to  bend  the  general  maxims 
of  policy  and  to  mould  its  measures  according  to  the  accidental 
course  of  private  speculations  ?  Is  it  to  do  this,  or  omit  that,  in 
cases  of  great  national  importance,  because  one  set  of  individuals 
may  gain,  another  lose,  from  unequal  opportunities  of  informa- 
tion, from  unequal  degrees  of  resource,  craft,  confidence,  or 
enterprise  ? 

Moreover  there  is  much  exaggeration  in  stating  the  manner 


At.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  277 

of  the  alienation  of  the  debt.  The  principal  speculations  in 
State  debt,  whatever  may  be  pretended,  certainly  began  after  the 
promulgation  of  the  plan  for  assuming  by  the  report  of  the 
Secretary  of  the  Treasury  to  the  House  of  Representatives. 
The  resources  of  individuals  in  this  country  are  too  limited  to 
have  admitted  of  much  progress  in  purchases  before  the  know- 
ledge of  that  plan  was  diffused  throughout  the  country.  After 
that,  purchasers  and  sellers  were  upon  equal  ground.  If  the 
purchasers  speculated  upon  the  sellers,  in  many  instances  the 
sellers  speculated  upon  the  purchasers.  Each  made  his  calcula- 
tion of  chances,  and  founded  upon  it  an  exchange  of  money  for 
certificates.  It  has  turned  out  generally  that  the  buyer  had  the 
best  of  the  bargain,  but  the  seller  got  the  value  of  his  com- 
modity according  to  his  estimate  of  it,  and  probably  in  a  great 
number  of  instances  more.     This  shall  be  explained. 

It  happened  that  Mr.  Madison  and  some  other  distinguished 
characters  of  the  South  started  in  opposition  to  the  assumption. 
The  high  opinion  entertained  of  them,  made  it  be  taken  for 
granted  in  that  quarter,  that  the  opposition  would  be  successful. 
The  securities  quickly  rose  by  means  of  purchases  beyond 
their  former  prices.  It  was  imagined  that  they  would  soon 
return  to  their  old  station  by  a  rejection  of  the  proposition  for 
assuming.  And  the  certificate-holders  were  eager  to  part  with 
them  at  their  current  prices,  calculating  on  a  loss  to  the  pur- 
chasers from  their  future  fall.  This  representation  is  not  con- 
jectural; it  is  founded  on  information  from  respectable  and 
intelligent  Southern  characters,  and  may  be  ascertained  by 
inquiry. 

Hence  it  happened  that  the  inhabitants  of  the  Southern  States 
sustained  a  considerable  loss  by  the  opposition  to  the  assumption 
from  Southern  gentlemen,  and  their  too  great  confidence  in  the 
efficacy  of  that  opposition. 

Further,  a  great  part  of  the  debt  which  has  been  purchased 
by  Northern  and  Southern  citizens,  has  been  at  higher  prices — 
in  numerous  instances  beyond  the  true  value.  In  the  late  de- 
lirium of  speculation,  large  sums  were  purchased  at  25  per  cent, 
above  par  and  upwards. 


278  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  35. 

The  Southern  people,  upon  the  whole,  have  not  parted  with 
their  property  for  nothing.  They  parted  with  it  voluntarily,  in 
most  cases,  upon  fair  terms,  without  surprise  or  deception — in 
many  cases  for  more  than  its  value.  'Tis  their  own  fault  if  the 
purchase  money  has  not  been  beneficial  to  them ;  and  the  pre- 
sumption is,  it  has  been  so  in  a  material  degree. 

Let,  then,  any  candid  and  upright  mind,  weighing  all  the  cir- 
cumstances, pronounce  whether  there  be  any  real  hardship  in 
the  inhabitants  of  the  South  being  required  to  contribute  their 
proportion  to  a  provision  for  the  debt  as  it  now  exists  ?  whether, 
if  at  liberty,  they  could  honestly  dispute  the  doing  of  it?  or 
whether  they  can  even,  in  candor  and  good  faith,  complain  of 
being  obliged  to  do  it? 

If  they  can,  it  is  time  to  unlearn  all  the  ancient  notions  of 
justice  and  morality,  and  to  adopt  a  new  system  of  ethics. 

Objection  21. — That  the  antifederal  champions  are  now 
strengthened  in  argument  by  the  fulfilment  of  their  predictions, 
which  has  been  brought  about  by  the  monarchical  federalists 
themselves,  who,  having  been  for  the  new  government  merely  as 
a  stepping-stone  to  monarchy,  have  themselves  adopted  the  very 
constructions  of  the  Constitution,  of  which,  when  advocating  the 
acceptance  before  the  tribunal  of  the  people,  they  declared  it  in- 
susceptible ;  whilst  the  republican  federalists,  who  espoused  the 
same  government  for  its  intrinsic  merits,  are  disarmed  of  their 
weapons,  that  which  they  denied  as  prophecy  being  now  become 
true  history.  Who,  therefore,  can  be  sure,  they  ask,  that 
these  things  may  not  proselyte  the  small  number  which  was 
wanting  to  place  the  majority  on  the  other  side?  And  this, 
they  add,  is  the  event  at  which  they  tremble. 

Answer. — All  that  can  be  said  in  answer  to  this,  has  been 
already  said.  It  is  much  to  be  wished  that  the  true  state  of  the 
case  may  not  have  been,  that  the  antifederal  champions  have 
been  encouraged  in  their  activity  by  the  countenance  which  has 
been  given  to  their  principles  by  certain  federalists  who,  in  an 
envious  and  ambitious  struggle  for  power,  influence,  and  pre. 
eminence,  have  embraced   as   auxiliaries  the   numerous  party 


Mt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  279 

originally  disaffected  to  the  government,  in  the  hope  that  these, 
united  with  the  factious  and  feeble-minded  federalists  whom  they 
can  detach,  will  give  them  the  predominancy.  This  would  be 
nothing  more  than  the  old  story  of  personal  and  party  emu- 
lation. 

The  antifederal  champions  alluded  to  may  be  taught  to  abate 
their  exultation,  by  being  told  that  the  great  body  of  the  federal- 
ists, or  rather  the  great  body  of  the  people,  are  of  opinion,  that 
none  of  their  predictions  have  been  fulfilled  ;  that  the  beneficial 
effects  of  the  government  have  exceeded  expectation,  and  are 
witnessed  by  the  general  prosperity  of  the  nation. 


HAMILTON  TO   SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  August  16th,  1792. 

Sir: 

You  will  herewith  receive  a  triplicate  of  my  letter  to  you  of 
the  25th  ultimo,  and  a  duplicate  of  one  of  the  4th  instant. 

If  the  destination  of  the  moneys  arising  from  the  last  loan, 
as  mentioned  in  my  former  letter  of  the  said  4th  instant,  has  not 
already  put  it  out  of  your  power,  it  would  be  my  wish  that  you 
reserve  a  sufficient  sum  for  the  purpose  of  discharging  the  debt 
due  to  the  foreign  officers.  The  sum  due,  including  arrears  of 
interest,  down  to  the  31st  of  December,  1791,  was  220,646  TVo 
dollars ;  to  which  will  be  to  be  added  the  further  interest  to  the 
time  of  payment. 

I  shall  shortly  suggest  to  you  the  particular  mode  to  be  pur- 
sued in  paying  this  debt. 


280  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  35. 


WASHINGTON  TO   HAMILTON. 

Mount  Vernon,  22d  August,  1792. 

Sir: 

This  will  merely  inform  you  that  your  letter  of  the  10th, 
with  its  inclosure,  and  that  of  the  11th  instant,  have  been  duly 
received ;  and  that  if  the  regulations  of  your  department,  men- 
tioned in  the  former,  are  carried  strictly  into  execution,  the  most 
happy  consequences,  it  is  to  be  hoped,  will  result  from  them. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

(private.) 

Mount  Vernon,  26th  August,  1792. 

My  Dear  Sir  : 

Your  letter  of  the  18th,  including  answers  to  certain  objec- 
tions communicated  to  you  in  my  letter  of  the  29th  ultimo, 
came  duly  to  hand ;  and  although  I  have  not  as  yet,  from  a  va- 
riety of  causes,  been  able  to  give  them  the  attentive  reading  I 
mean  to  bestow,  I  feel  myself  much  obliged  by  the  trouble 
you  have  taken  to  answer  them,  as  I  persuade  myself,  from  the 
full  manner  in  which  you  appear  to  have  taken  up  the  subject, 
that  I  shall  receive  both  satisfaction  and  profit  from  the  pe- 
rusal. 

Differences  in  political  opinions  are  as  unavoidable,  as,  to  a 
certain  point,  they  may  perhaps  be  necessary,  but  it  is  exceed- 
ingly to  be  regretted,  that  subjects  cannot  be  discussed  with  tem- 
per on  the  one  hand,  or  decisions  submitted  to  without  having 
the  motives  which  led  to  them,  improperly  implicated  on  the 
other ;  and  this  regret  borders  on  chagrin,  when  we  find  that 


JEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  281 

men  of  abilities,  zealous  patriots,  having  the  same  general  objects 
in  view,  and  the  same  upright  intentions  to  prosecute  them,  will 
not  exercise  more  charity  in  deciding  on  the  opinions  and  ac- 
tions of  one  another.  When  matters  get  to  such  lengths  the 
natural  inference  is,  that  both  sides  have  strained  the  cords  be- 
yond their  bearing,  and  that  a  middle  course  would  be  found 
the  best,  until  experience  shall  have  decided  on  the  right  way,  or 
(which  is  not  to  be  expected  because  it  is  denied  to  mortals)  there 
shall  be  some  infallible  rule  by  which  we  could  forejudge  events. 
Having  premised  these  things,  I  would  fain  hope  that  liberal  al- 
lowances will  be  made  for  the  political  opinions  of  each  other ; 
and  instead  of  those  wounding  suspicions  and  irritating  charges, 
with  which  some  of  our  gazettes  are  so  strongly  impregnated, 
and  which  cannot  fail,  if  persevered  in,  of  pushing  matters  to  ex- 
tremity, and  thereby  tearing  the  machine  asunder,  that  there 
may  be  mutual  forbearance  and  temporizing  yielding  on  all  sides. 
Without  these  I  do  not  see  how  the  reins  of  government  are  go- 
ing to  be  managed,  or  how  the  Union  of  the  States  can  much 
longer  be  preserved. 

How  unfortunate  would  it  be  if  a  fabric  so  goodly,  erected 
under  so  many  providential  circumstances,  and  in  its  first  stages 
having  acquired  such  respectability,  should,  from  diversity  of 
sentiments  or  internal  obstructions  to  some  of  the  acts  of  govern- 
ment, (for  I  cannot  prevail  upon  myself  to  believe  that  these 
measures  are  as  yet  the  deliberate  acts  of  a  determined  party,) 
be  brought  to  the  verge  of  dissolution.  Melancholy  thought ! 
But  at  the  same  time  that  it  shows  the  consequences  of  diversi- 
fied opinions,  when  pushed  with  too  much  tenacity,  it  exhibits 
evidence  also  of  the  necessity  of  accommodation,  and  of  the  pro- 
priety of  adopting  such  healing  measures  as  may  restore  harmony 
to  the  discordant  members  of  the  Union,  and  the  governing 
powers  of  it. 

I  do  not  mean  to  apply  this  advice  to  any  measures  which  are 
passed,  or  to  any  particular  character.  I  have  given  it  in  gene- 
ral terms  to  other  officers  of  the  government.  My  earnest  wish  is, 
that  balsam  may  be  poured  into  all  the  wounds  which  have  been 
given,  to  prevent  them  from  gangrening,  and  from  those  fatal 


282  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  35. 

consequences  which  the  community  may  sustain  if  it  is  withheld. 
The  friends  of  the  Union  must  wish  this.  Those  who  are  not, 
but  wish  to  see  it  rent,  will  be  disappointed,  and  all  things  I  hope 
will  go  well. 

We  have  heard,  through  the  medium  of  Mr.  Harrison  to  Dr. 
Craik,  that  you  have  some  thoughts  of  taking  a  trip  this  way.  I 
felt  pleasure  at  hearing  it,  and  hope  it  is  unnecessary  to  add,  that 
it  would  be  considerably  increased  by  seeing  you  under  this  roof, 
for  you  may  be  assured  of  the  sincere  and  affectionate  regard  of 
yours,  &c. 

P.  S.  I  pray  you  to  note  down  whatever  may  occur  to  you, 
not  only  in  your  own  department,  but  other  matters  also  of  gene- 
ral import,  that  may  be  fit  subjects  for  the  speech  at  the  opening 
of  the  ensuing  session. 


HAMILTON"  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  August  27th,  1792. 

Sir: 

By  the  act  of  the  last  session,  entitled  "An  act  supplement- 
ary to  the  act  making  provision  for  the  debt  of  the  United 
States,"  authority  is  given  to  discharge  the  debts  due  to  foreign 
officers,  out  of  the  moneys  which  the  President  is  authorized  to 
borrow,  by  the  act  making  provision  for  the  debt  of  the  United 
States. 

The  sum  authorized  to  be  borrowed  by  the  last  mentioned 
act,  is  12,000,000  of  dollars.  The  whole  amount  of  the  foreign 
debt,  exclusive  of  that  due  to  foreign  officers,  was  11,710,378 
dollars  and  62  cents.  The  difference  is  289,621  dollars  and  38 
cents,  which  is  greater  than  the  sum  due  to  foreign  officers,  being 
about  230,000  dollars.  This  debt  being  payable  in  Paris,  and 
bearing  an  interest  of  six  per  cent.,  it  is  for  the  advantage  of  the 
United  States  to  discharge  it  as  soon  as  possible.     The  last  loan 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  283 

will  be  a  convenient  fund  for  the  purpose,  and  if  approved  by 
the  President,  a  part  of  it  will  be  so  applied. 

Should  it  appear  to  the  President  advisable  to  direct  this  pay- 
ment, a  second  question  arises,  namely  :  whether  it  shall  be  made 
in  assign ats,  or  in  a  mode  which  shall  exempt  the  parties  from 
the  loss  which  would  attend  the  depreciation  of  those  securities, 
without,  however,  occasioning  loss  to  the  United  States  ?  The 
last  appears  best  to  accord  with  the  justice  and  reputation  of  the 
government. 

With  the  highest  respect  and  the  truest  attachment,  &c. 

P.  S.  Your  letter  of  the  13th  instant,  and  the  con- 
tract concerning  the  New  Hampshire  light-house  were  duly  re- 
ceived. 


HAMILTON  TO   SHORT. 
Treasury  Department,  Philadelphia,  Aug.  28,  1792. 

Sir  : 

It  has  been  represented  to  me  by  the  accounting  officers  of 
the  Treasury,  that  a  regular  account  of  all  the  moneys  which 
have  been  received  by  you  from  our  commissioners  in  Europe, 
or  which  have  been  paid  by  them  by  your  direction,  would  be 
requisite  in  the  examination  and  adjustment  of  the  accounts  of 
the  said  commissioners. 

I  have  therefore  to  request  that  you  will  furnish  me  with  an 
account  comprising  those  objects,  down  to  the  1st  of  November, 
1792. 

As  the  document  called  for  will  be  considered  as  an  essential 
guide  in  the  settlement  which  is  contemplated,  I  shall  make  no 
apology  for  troubling  you  on  the  occasion. 

Your  account,  as  secretary  to  the  embassy  in  France,  I  un- 
derstand, has  been  presented  at  the  Treasury  by  Mr.  Jefferson, 
terminating  on  the  21th  September,  1789 ;  but  none  has  been 
rendered  since. 


284  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^Et.  35. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Mount  Vernon,  31st  Aug.  1792. 

Sir: 

The  inclosed  letter  was  written  agreeably  to  the  date,  but  by 
an  accident  was  omitted  when  my  other  letters  were  sent  to  the 
post-office  on  Monday  last ;  since  which,  till  yesterday  afternoon, 
I  have  been  absent  from  home. 

On  my  return,  amongst  other  letters  I  found  the  inclosed 
from  the  inspector  of  the  fifth  survey  in  the  State  of  North 
Carolina.  The  picture  drawn  by  him  of  the  temper  of  the  peo- 
ple in  the  district  intrusted  to  his  inspection,  is  a  very  unpleasant 
and  disagreeable  one.  It  is  forwarded  for  your  consideration 
and  opinion  of  the  measures  necessary  to  be  taken  in  the  prem- 
ises, particularly  whether  the  Governor  of  that  State  ought  to  be 
written  to  on  the  subject;  and  in  that  case,  to  desire  that  you 
would  draft  a  letter  proper  for  the  occasion. 

Your  letter  of  the  27th  instant  is  also  before  me;  and  my 
opinion  on  the  points  therein  submitted  is,  that  part  of  the  loan 
lately  obtained  in  Holland  should  be  applied  in  discharge  of  the 
debt  due  to  the  foreign  officers,  agreeably  to  the  act  alluded  to 
in  your  letter,  and  because  the  interest  of  the  United  States  re- 
quires it  to  be  done ;  and  that  it  ought  to  be  paid  in  a  mode 
which  shall  exempt  the  parties  from  the  loss  which  would  attend 
the  depreciation  of  assignats,  without  however  occasioning  loss 
to  the  United  States.  The  former  is  an  act  of  justice  due  to  the 
officers,  and  the  latter  an  act  of  prudence  becoming  the  govern- 
ment. 


HAMILTON  TO   WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department.  September  1st.  1792. 

Sir: 

I  have  the  honor  to  inclose  sundry  papers  which  have  been 
handed  to  me  by  the  Commissioners  of  the  Eevenue,  respecting 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  285 

the  state  of  the  excise  law  in  the  Western  Survey  of  the  District 
of  Pennsylvania. 

Such  persevering  and  violent  opposition  to  the  law  gives  the 
business  a  still  more  serious  aspect  than  it  has  hitherto  worn,  and 
seems  to  call  for  vigorous  and  decisive  measures  on  the  part  of 
the  government. 

I  have  directed  that  the  supervisor  of  the  district  shall  repair 
forthwith  to  the  survey  in  question,  to  ascertain  in  person  the 
true  state  of  the  survey ;  to  collect  evidences  respecting  the  vio- 
lences that  have  been  committed,  in  order  to  a  prosecution  of  the 
offenders ;  to  ascertain  particulars  as  to  the  meeting  which  ap- 
pears to  have  been  held  at  Pittsburg ;  to  encourage  the  perse- 
verance of  the  officers ;  giving  expectations,  as  far  as  it  can  be 
done  with  propriety,  of  indemnification  from  the  government  for 
any  losses  which  they  may  sustain  in  consequence  of  their 
offices ;  to  endeavor  to  prevail  upon  the  inhabitants  of  the 
county  of  Allegany,  who  appear  at  present  the  least  refractory, 
to  come  into  an  acquiescence  of  the  law ;  representing  to  discreet 
persons  the  impropriety  of  government's  remaining  a  passive 
spectator  of  the  contempt  of  its  laws. 

I  shall  also  immediately  submit  to  the  Attorney-General,  for 
his  opinion,  whether  an  indictable  offence  has  not  been  com- 
mitted by  the  persons  who  were  assembled  at  Pittsburg,  and  of 
what  nature  is  the  paper  which  contains  their  proceedings,  with 
a  view,  if  judged  expedient  by  you,  that  it  may  be  brought  under 
the  notice  of  the  Circuit  Court,  which,  I  understand,  is  to  be  held 
in  October  at  Yorktown. 

My  present  clear  conviction  is,  that  it  is  indispensable,  if 
competent  evidence  can  be  obtained,  to  exert  the  full  force  of  the 
law  against  the  offenders,  with  every  circumstance  that  can  mani- 
fest the  determination  of  government  to  enforce  its  execution  • 
and  if  the  processes  of  the  courts  are  resisted,  as  is  rather  to  be 
expected,  to  employ  those  means  which  in  the  last  resort  are  put 
in  the  power  of  the  Executive.  If  this  is  not  done,  the  spirit  of 
disobedience  will  naturally  extend,  and  the  authority  of  the  gov- 
ernment will  be  prostrated.   Moderation  enough  has  been  shown ; 


286  HAMILTON'S     WORKS.  [JEt.  35. 

it  is  time  to  assume  a  different  tone.  The  well-disposed  part  of 
the  community  will  begin  to  think  the  Executive  wanting  in  de- 
cision and  vigor.  I  submit  these  impressions  to  your  considera- 
tion, previous  to  any  step  which  will  involve  the  necessity  of 
ulterior  proceedings ;  and  shall  hope  as  speedily  as  possible  to 
receive  your  instructions. 

"With  the  highest  respect  and  the  truest  attachment,  I  have 
the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


WASHINGTON  TO   HAMILTON. 

Mount  Vernon,  7th  Sept.  1792. 

Sir: 

The  last  post  brought  me  your  letter  of  the  first  instant,  with 
the  inclosures  respecting  the  disorderly  conduct  of  the  inhabi- 
tants of  the  Western  Survey  of  the  District  of  Pennsylvania,  in 
opposing  the  execution  of  what  is  called  the  Excise  Law ;  and  of 
the  insults  which  have  been  offered  by  some  of  them  to  the 
officers  who  have  been  appointed  to  collect  the  duties  on  distilled 
spirits  agreeably  thereto. 

Such  conduct  in  any  of  the  citizens  of  the  United  States, 
under  any  circumstances  that  can  well  be  conceived,  would  be 
exceedingly  reprehensible ;  but  when  it  comes  from  a  part  of  the 
community  for  whose  protection  the  money  arising  from  the  tax 
was  principally  designed,  it  is  truly  unaccountable,  and  the  spirit 
of  it  much  to  be  regretted. 

The  preliminary  steps  taken  by  you  in  ordering  the  super- 
visor of  the  district  to  repair  to  the  survey  where  these  disor- 
ders prevail,  with  a  view  to  ascertain  in  person,  "the  true  state 
of  the  survey ;  to  collect  evidence  respecting  the  violences  that 
have  been  committed,  in  order  to  a  prosecution  of  the  offenders ; 
to  ascertain  the  particulars  as  to  the  meeting  which  appears  to 
have  been  held  at  Pittsburg ;  to  encourage  the  perseverance  of 
the  officers  in  their  duty,  and  the  well-disposed  inhabitants  in 
discountenancing  such  violent  proceedings,"  &c,  &c,  are  prudent 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  287 

and  proper,  and  I  earnestly  wish  they  may  have  the  desired 
effect.  But  if,  notwithstanding,  opposition  is  still  given  to  the 
due  execution  of  the  law,  I  have  no  hesitation  in  declaring,  if  the 
evidence  of  it  is  clear  and  unequivocal,  that  I  shall,  however 
reluctantly  I  exercise  them,  exert  all  the  legal  powers  with  which 
the  Executive  is  invested,  to  check  so  daring  and  unwarrantable 
a  spirit.  It  is  my  duty  to  see  the  laws  executed : — to  permit 
them  to  be  trampled  upon  with  impunity  would  be  repugnant  to 
it ;  nor  can  the  government  longer  remain  a  passive  spectator  of 
the  contempt  with  which  they  are  treated.  Forbearance  under 
a  hope  that  the  inhabitants  of  that  survey  would  recover  from 
the  delirium  and  folly  into  which  they  were  plunged,  seems  to 
have  had  no  other  effect  than  to  increase  the  disorder. 

If  it  shall  be  the  Attorney-General's  opinion,  under  a  full 
consideration  of  the  case,  (adverting,  as  I  presume  he  will,  as 
well  to  the  laws  and  Constitution  of  Pennsylvania,  as  to  those 
of  the  United  States,)  that  the  meeting  which  appears  to  have 
been  held  at  Pittsburg,  was  illegal,  and  the  members  of  it  indicta- 
ble ;  and  it  shall  further  appear  to  you  from  such  information  as 
you  may  be  able  to  obtain,  and  from  a  comparative  view  of  all 
circumstances,  that  it  would  be  proper  to  bring  the  matter  before 
the  Circuit  Court,  to  be  hoiden  at  Yorktown  in'  October  next, 
you  have  all  the  sanction  and  authority  I  can  give  to  do  it. 


HAMILTON"  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  8th  September,  1792. 

Sir: 

I  have  to  acknowledge  the  honor  of  your  letter  of  the  31st  of 
August. 

Letters  from  the  supervisor  of  North  Carolina  confirm  the 
representation  contained  in  the  letter  from  the  inspector  of  the 
5th  survey  to  you.  My  letter  which  accompanies  this,  suggests 
the  measure  which,  on  mature  reflection,  has  appeared  most 
proper  to  be  taken  upon  the  whole  subject  of  the  opposition  to 


288  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

the  law.  If  the  idea  is  approved  by  you,  I  believe  it  will  be  ad- 
visable to  transmit  a  copy  of  the  proclamation  to  the  Governors 
of  each  of  the  States  of  South  Carolina,  North  Carolina,  and 
Pennsylvania,  calling  their  attention  in  a  proper  manner  to  the 
state  of  affairs  within  their  respective  governments. 

I  am  taking  arrangements  to  carry  into  execution  the  pay- 
ment of  the  debt  due  to  foreign  officers,  agreeably  to  the  au- 
thorization in  the  close  of  your  letter. 


EANDOLPH  TO  HAMILTON. 

Philadelphia,  Sept.  8,  1792. 

Persuaded  as  I  am  that  the  last  effort  for  the  happiness  of  the 
United  States  must  perish  with  the  loss  of  the  present  govern- 
ment, and  that  to  be  unable  to  execute  laws  because  a  few  indi- 
viduals are  resolved  to  obstruct  their  operations  is  nothing  less 
than  a  surrender  of  it,  I  went  into  the  consideration  of  the  Caro- 
lina and  Pittsburg  papers  with  a  determination  to  spare  no  pains 
to  ascertain  the  law  arising  from  the  facts  which  they  contain. 

I  pass  by  the  information  from  Carolina,  because  it  offers  no 
evidence,  nor  any  prospect  of  evidence,  sufficient  for  the  objects 
of  prosecution.  That  from  Pittsburg  is  of  a  more  serious  com- 
plexion, and  yet  not  strong  enough  to  warrant  a  judicial  move- 
ment in  the  United  States.  To  assemble,  to  remonstrate,  and 
to  invite  others  to  assemble  and  remonstrate  to  the  legislature, 
are  among  the  rights  of  citizens.  I  therefore  omit  special  men- 
tion of  the  two  first  resolutions.  The  last  indicates  a  hostile 
temper,  as  it  exiles  from  the  comforts  of  private  friendship  and 
intercourse  and  marks  for  contempt  the  officers  of  excise.  Still, 
however,  when  we  advert  to  the  strictness  with  which  criminal 
law  is  interpreted,  and  the  latitude  allowed  in  drawing  a  meaning 
from  a  libel  so  as  to  favor  the  accused,  I  must  pronounce  that  the 
law  will  not  reach  the  conferees.  I  am  aware  that  seditious  attacks 
on  government  will  be  generally  covered  by  a  measured,  cau- 


43t.3&]  CABINET     PAPERS.  289 

tious,  and  artful  language ;  and  it  may  be  said  that  the  public 
authority  will  upon  my  principle  be  for  ever  foiled.  My  answer 
is,  that  words  which  are  calculated  to  withhold  the  exercise  of 
duties  of  imperfect  obligation  only,  from  men  not  named,  but 
who  may  accept  in  future,  will  disappoint  the  expectation  of 
public  punishment,  and  thereby  disgrace  the  United  States.  My 
maxim  is,  to  examine  well ;  to  forbear  a  doubtful  power,  and  to 
enforce  one  clearly  rightful. 

Thus,  sir,  you  discover  my  opinion  to  be  against  an  attempt 
to  a  prosecution  at  this  moment,  when  the  malignant  spirit  has  not 
developed  itself  in  acts  so  specific,  and  so  manifestly  infringing 
the  peace,  as  obviously  to  expose  the  culpable  persons  to  the 
censures  of  the  law. 

Upon  the  first  communication  of  this  matter  in  your  letter,  I 
thought  of  a  proclamation  as  an  eventual  substitute,  if  the  law 
should  be  found  inadequate.  It  struck  me  that  a  proclamation 
was  objectionable,  because  that  it  seemed  that  the  Executive 
ought  to  consign  to  the  course  of  law  any  violations  of  it,  and 
not  to  animadvert  upon  acts  to  which  no  law  had  prescribed  a 
penalty  ;  and  because  an  improper  interference  of  the  President 
might  excite  an  idea  of  usurpation,  and  enlist  against  him  even 
those  who  execrate  the  spirit  of  the  Pittsburg  proceedings.  But, 
after  the  anticipation  of  a  part  only  of  the  consequences  which 
the  silence  of  government  would  produce ;  after  recollecting  that 
these  obnoxious  things  have  been  transacted  in  the  very  State 
which  is  the  temporary  residence  of  the  administration;  that 
they  will  carry  with  them  a  kind  of  eclat,  as  being  done  at  a  spot 
where  the  United  States  are  certainly  not  unpopular ;  that  the 
western  settlers  in  other  States,  from  a  sympathy  of  situation 
and  the  want  of  intelligence,  may  imitate  the  conduct  of  the 
Pennsylvania  counties  unless  they  will  be  restrained  by  a  timely 
admonition ;  that  few  of  the  various  oppositions  to  government 
have  existed  which  were  not  capable  of  being  blasted,  if  encoun- 
tered before  men  committed  themselves  too  deeply;  and  that 
acquiescence  of  the  President  may  be  imputed  to  a  suspicion  of 
the  unconstitutionality,  or  at  least  gross  inexpediency,  of  the 
excise  laws — I  yield  to  the  necessity  of  a  proclamation.  I  derive 
D  19" 


*290  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [;Et.  35. 

the  President's  right  to  issue  it  from  the  duty  of  seeing  the  laws 
executed,  and  the  fitness  of  preventing  the  growth  of  a  crime  by 
salutary  advice,  rather  than  waiting  to  press  the  infliction  of  pun- 
ishment. 

Under  the  influence  of  these  sentiments,  I  have  perused  your 
draft  of  a  proclamation,  and  shall  without  reserve  suggest  what 
I  think  necessary  alterations,  though  I  really  wish  that  I  could 
have  more  time  for  a  critical  scrutiny  than  has  occurred  between 
yesterday  and  this  morning. 

1.  I  should  prefer,  if  it  be  practicable,  in  the  description  of 
those  proceedings  which  give  birth  to  the  proclamation,  that 
some  expression  be  used,  which  may  show  that  it  is  not  the  whole 
of  the  Pittsburg  resolutions  which  are  censured. 

2.  Criminality  is  too  strong  for  a  case,  which  the  laws  do  not 
punish. 

3.  After  the  word  legislative,  may  it  not  be  well  to  insert 
something  to  this  effect?  "By  whose  authority  alone  the  opera- 
tion of  the  laws  can  be  suspended." 

4.  The  moderation  alluded  to  on  the  part  of  government 
must  be  either  legislative  or  executive.  If  legislative  be  meant, 
the  subsequent  member  of  the  sentence  is  explicit  concerning  it. 
If  executive,  I  know  no  fact  to  prove  that  the  President  might 
have  been  otherwise  than  moderate.  Perhaps,  then,  it  may  be 
better  to  omit  the  words,  which  are  liable  to  misconstruction. 

5.  I  have  no  hesitation  in  saying,  that  the  excise  law  was 
dictated  by  reasons  of  public  necessity  and  policy ;  and  I  pre- 
sume that  the  President,  who  has  given  his  sanction  to  it,  will 
not  scruple  much  on  this  head;  but  I  should  hope  that  you 
would  remark  to  him,  in  order  to  excite  his  particular  attention, 
that  by  such  a  language  he  exhibited  himself  as  a  peculiar  friend 
to  the  act. 

6.  Instead  of  "  maintain,"  ought  not  the  words  of  the  Consti- 
tution to  be  chosen  ? 

7.  Every  necessary  measure  to  suppress  a  violent  proceeding 
would  go  much  farther  than  the  Executive  ought,  unless  the 
measure  be  legal.  The  word  necessary,  then,  might  be  as  well 
changed  for  legal,  or  qualified  by  saying  legal  and  necessary. 


Mt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  291 

If  "  suppress "  means  something  distinct  from  bringing  the 
offenders  to  justice^  I  do  not  discover  what  it  is.  If  it  means 
the  same  thing,  it  is  provided  for  in  the  second  member  of  the 
sentence.  "  To  secure  obedience  thereto,"  is,  to  be  sure,  a 
phrase  expressive  of  the  final  object;  but,  having  some  latitude, 
it  may  be  perverted  by  its  connection  with  the  other  words. 
Might  not  the  sentence  read  well  enough  thus:  "That  every 
legal  measure  should  be  pursued,  not  only  to  bring  to  justice  the 
infractors  of  the  laws,  but  also  to  prevent  such  violent  and  un- 
warrantable proceedings." 

8.  "  Seriously  "  might  be  changed  for  something  which  could 
not  be  contrasted  with  what  is  not  serious.  Is  not  "  warn " 
too  nearly  synonymous  with  "  admonish  "  to  be  coupled  with  it? 
Suppose  exhort  to  be  substituted,  if  two  verbs  necessary. 

9.  I  think  this  number  stood  better  before  the  interlineation. 

10.  For  the  reasons  in  No.  7,  "  for  securing  obedience  there- 
to" would  seem  proper  to  be  omitted. 

11.  The  charge  to  the  military  would  influence  the  country ; 
nor  do  I  think  it  sufficient  to  let  it  stand  upon  the  word 
"officers"  generally,  as  the  military  have  no  power  on  the  sub- 
ject ;  and,  where  this  is  the  case,  the  exciting  of  a  suspicion  to 
introduce  them,  cannot  be  too  sedulously  avoided.  May  it  not 
read  thus:  "All  civil  officers,  according  to  the  duties  of  their 
respective  offices,  to  exert,  &c.  ?" 

I  submit  these  observations,  which  on  other  occasions  would 
appear  to  myself  too  minute,  but  in  that  of  a  proclamation  are 
necessary. 


HAMILTON  TO   WASHINGTON. 

•   Treasury  Department.  9th  September,  1792. 

Sir: 

I  had  the  honor  of  writing  to  you  by  the  post  of  Monday  last, 
and  then  transmitted  sundry  papers,  respecting  a  meeting  at 
Pittsburg  on  the  21st  of  August,  and  other  proceedings  of  a 


292  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

disorderly  nature  in  opposition  to  the  laws  laying  a  duty  on  dis- 
tilled spirits,  and  I  added  my  opinion  that  it  was  advisable  for 
the  government  to  take  measures  for  suppressing  these  disor- 
ders and  enforcing  the  laws  with  vigor  and  decision. 

The  result  of  further  and  mature  deliberation  is,  that  it  will 
be  expedient  for  the  President  to  issue  a  proclamation  adverting 
in  general  terms  to  the  irregular  proceedings,  and  manifesting  an 
intention  to  put  the  laws  in  force  against  offenders.  The  induce- 
ments to  this  measure  are: 

1.  That  it  is  a  usual  course  in  like  cases,  and  seems,  all  cir- 
cumstances considered,  requisite  to  the  justification  of  the  Execu- 
tive Department.  It  is  now  more  than  fourteen  months  since  the 
duty  in  question  began  to  operate.  In  the  four  western  counties 
of  Pennsylvania,  and  in  a  great  part  of  North  Carolina,  it  Las 
never  been  in  any  degree  submitted  to.  And  the  late  meeting 
at  Pittsburg,  is  in  substance  a  repetition  of  what  happened  last 
year  in  the  same  scene.  The  disorders  in  that  quarter  acquire 
additional  consequence  from  their  being  acted  in  the  State  which 
is  the  immediate  seat  of  government.  Hence  the  occasion  ap- 
pears to  be  sufficiently  serious  and  of  sufficient  importance  to 
call  for  such  a  procedure. 

2.  As  an  accommodating  and  temporizing  conduct  has  been 
hitherto  pursued,  a  proclamation  seems  to  be  the  natural  prelude 
to  a  different  course  of  conduct. 

3.  There  is  considerable  danger  that  before  measures  can  be 
matured  for  making  a  public  impression  by  the  prosecution  of 
offenders,  the  spirit  of  opposition  may  extend  and  break  out  in 
other  quarters,  and  by  its  extension  become  much  more  difficult 
to  be  overcome.  There  is  reason  to  hope  that  a  proclamation 
will  arrest  it,  and  give  time  for  more  effectual  measures. 

4.  It  may  even  prevent  the  necessity  of  ulterior  coercion. 
The  character  of  the  President  will  naturally  induce  a  conclusion, 
that  he  means  to  treat  the  matter  seriously.  This  idea  will  be 
impressive  on  the  most  refractory,  it  will  restrain  the  timid  and 
wavering,  and  it  will  encourage  the  well  disposed.  The  appear- 
ance of  the  President  in  the  business  will  awaken  the  attention 
of  a  great  number  of  persons  of  the  last  description  to  the  evil 


<£t.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  293 

tendency  of  the  conduct  reprehended,  who  have  not  yet  viewed 
it  with  due  seriousness.  And  from  the  co-operation  of  these 
circumstances  good  may  reasonably  be  expected. 

In  either  view,  therefore,  of  the  propriety  of  conduct,  or  the 
effects  to  be  hoped  for,  the  measure  seems  to  be  an  advisable 
one.  I  beg  leave  to  add,  that  in  my  judgment,  it  is  not  only  ad- 
visable, but  necessary.  Besides,  the  state  of  things  in  the  west- 
ern part  of  North.  Carolina,  which  is  known  to  you,  a  letter  has 
just  been  received  from  the  supervisor  of  South  Carolina,  men- 
tioning that  a  spirit  of  discontent  and  opposition  had  been  re- 
vived in  two  of  the  counties  of  that  State  bordering  on  North 
Carolina,  in  which  it  had  been  apparently  suppressed.  •  This 
shows  the  necessity  of  some  immediate  step  of  a  general  aspect, 
while  things  are  preparing,  if  unhappily  it  should  become  neces- 
sary, to  act  with  decision  in  the  western  counties  of  Pennsylva- 
nia, where  the  government,  for  several  obvious  considerations, 
will  be  left  in  condition  to  do  it.  Decision  successfully  exerted 
in  one  place,  will,  it  is  presumed,  be  efficacious  every  where. 

The  Secretary  of  War  and  Attorney-General  agree  with  me 
in  opinion  on  the  expediency  of  a  proclamation.  The  draft  of 
one  now  submitted  has  been  framed  in  concert  with  the  latter, 
except  as  to  one  or  two  particulars,  which  are  noted  in  the  mar- 
gin of  the  rough  draft  in  my  handwriting,  herewith  also  trans- 
mitted. In  respect  to  these,  the  objections  of  that  gentleman  did 
not  appear  to  me  well  founded,  and  would,  I  think,  unnecessa- 
rily diminish  the  force  of  the  instrument. 

With  the  highest  respect  and  truest  attachment,  I  have  the 
honor  to  be,  &c. 


JEFFERSON   TO   WASHINGTON. 

Monticello,  9th  Sept.  1792. 

Dear  Sir: 

I  received  on  the  2d  instant  the  letter  of  August  2od,  which 
you  did  me  the  honor  to  write  me ;  but  the  immediate  return  of 


294  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^t.  35. 

our  post,  contrary  to  his  custom,  prevented  my  answer  by  that 
occasion.  The  proceedings  of  Spain,  mentioned  in  your  letter, 
are  really  of  a  complexion  to  excite  uneasiness  ;  and  a  suspicion 
that  their  friendly  overtures  about  the  Mississippi,  have  been 
merely  to  lull  us,  while  they  should  be  strengthening  their  holds 
on  that  river.  Mr.  Carmichael's  silence  has  been  long  my  aston- 
ishment; and  however  it  might  be  justified,  something  very  dif- 
ferent from  a  new  appointment,  yet  the  public  interest  certainly 
called  for  his  junction  with  Mr.  Short,  as  it  is  possible  but  that 
his  knowledge  of  the  ground  of  negotiation,  of  persons  and  cha- 
racters, must  be  useful  and  even  necessary  to  the  success  of  the 
mission.  That  Spain  and  Great  Britain  may  understand  each 
other  on  our  frontiers  is  very  possible ;  for,  however  opposite 
their  interests  or  dispositions  may  be  in  the  affairs  of  Europe, 
yet,  while  these  do  not  call  them  into  opposite  action,  they  may 
concur  as  against  us.  I  consider  their  keeping  an  agent  in  the 
Indian  country  as  a  circumstance  which  requires  serious  interfe- 
rence on  our  part ;  and  I  submit  to  your  decision,  whether  it 
does  not  furnish  a  proper  occasion  to  us  to  send  an  additional 
instruction  to  Messrs.  Carmichael  and  Short  to  insist  on  a  mutual 
and  formal  stipulation  to  forbear  employing  agents,  or  pensioning 
any  persons  within  each  other's  limits ;  and  if  this  be  refused,  to 
propose  the  contrary  stipulation,  to  wit,  that  each  party  may 
freely  keep  agents  within  the  Indian  territories  of  the  other,  in 
which  case  we  might  soon  sicken  them  of  the  license. 

I  now  take  the  liberty  of  proceeding  to  that  part  of  your  let- 
ter, wherein  you  notice  the  internal  dissensions  which  have  taken 
place  within  our  government,  and  their  disagreeable  effects  on 
its  movements.  That  such  dissensions  have  taken  place  is  cer- 
tain ;  and  even  among  those  who  are  nearest  to  you  in  the  ad- 
ministration ;  to  no  one  have  they  given  deeper  concern  than 
myself;  to  no  one  equal  mortification  at  being  myself  a  part  of 
them.  Though  I  take  to  myself  no  more  than  my  share  of  the 
general  observations  of  your  letter,  yet  I  am  so  desirous  ever  that 
you  should  know  the  whole  truth,  and  believe  no  more  than  the 
truth,  that  I  am  glad  to  seize  every  occasion  of  developing  to 
you,  whatever  I  do  or  think  relative  to  the   government,  and 


JEt.  35.]  CABINET     PAPERS.  295 

shall  therefore  ask  permission  to  be  more  lengthy  now  than  the 
occasion  particularly  calls  for,  or  would  otherwise,  perhaps, 
justify. 

When  I  embarked  in  the  government,   it  was  with  a  deter- 
mination to  intermeddle  not  at  all  with  the  legislature,  and  as 
little  as  possible  with  my  co-departments.     The  first  and  only  in- 
stance of  variance  from  the  former  part  of  my  resolution,  I  was 
duped  into  by  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  and  made  a  tool  for 
forwarding  his  schemes,  not  then  sufficiently  understood  by  me ; 
and  of  all  the  errors  of  my  political  life,  this  has  occasioned  me 
the  deepest  regret.     It  has  ever  been  my  purpose  to  explain  this 
to  you,  when,  from  being  actors  on  the  scene,  we  shall  have 
become  uninterested  spectators  only.     The  second  part  of  my  re- 
solution has  been  religiously  observed  with  the  War  Department ; 
and  as  to  that  of  the  Treasury,  has  never  been  farther  swerved 
from,  than  by  the  mere  enunciation  of  my  sentiments  in  conver- 
sation, and  chiefly  among  those,  who,  expressing  the  same  senti- 
ments, drew  mine  from  me.     If  it  has  been  supposed  that  I  have 
ever  intrigued  among  the  members  of  the  legislature  to  defeat 
the  plans  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  it  is  contrary  to  all 
truth  ;  as  I  never  had  the  desire  to  influence  the   members,  so 
neither  had  I  any  other  means  than  my  friendships,  which  I 
valued  too  highly  to  risk  by  usurpations  on  their  freedom  of 
judgment,   and   the  conscientious   pursuit   of  their  own   sense 
of  duty. 

That  I  have  utterly,  in  my  private  conversations,  disapproved 
of  the  system  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  I  acknowledge 
and  avow;  and  this  was  not  merely  a  speculative  difference. 
His  system  flowed  from  principles  adverse  to  liberty,  and  was 
calculated  to  undermine  and  demolish  the  republic,  by  creating 
an  influence  of  his  department  over  the  members  of  the  legisla- 
ture. I  saw  this  influence  actually  produced,  and  its  first  fruits 
to  be  the  establishment  of  the  great  outlines  of  his  project,  by 
the  votes  of  the  very  persons  who,  having  swallowed  his  bait, 
were  laying  themselves  out  to  profit  by  his  plans ;  and  that,  had 
these  persons  withdrawn,  as  those  interested  in  a  question  ever 
should,  the  vote  of  the  disinterested  majority  was  clearly  the  re- 


296  HAMILTON'S     WORKS.  [jEt.  35. 

verse  of  what  they  made  it.  These  were  no  longer  the  votes, 
then,  of  the  representatives  of  the  people,  but  of  deserters  from 
the  rights  and  interests  of  the  people ;  and  it  was  impossible  to 
consider  their  decisions,  which  had  nothing  in  view  but  to  enrich, 
themselves,  as  the  measures  of  the  fair  majority  which  ought 
always  to  be  respected.  If  what  was  actually  doing  begat  unea- 
siness in  those  who  wished  for  virtuous  government,  what  was 
further  proposed  was  not  less  threatening  to  the  friends  of  the 
Constitution ;  for  in  a  report  on  the  subject  of  manufactures 
(still  to  be  acted  on)  it  was  expressly  assumed  that  the  general 
government  has  a  right  to  exercise  all  powers  which  may  be  for 
the  general  welfare ;  that  is  to  say,  all  the  legitimate  powers  of 
government ;  since  no  government  has  a  legitimate  right  to  do 
what  is  not  for  the  welfare  of  the  governed.  There  was  indeed 
a  sham  limitation  of  the  universality  of  this  power,  to  cases  where 
money  is  to  be  employed ; — but  about  what  is  it,  that  money  cannot 
be  employed?  Thus  the  object  of  these  plans  taken  together,- is 
to  draw  all  the  powrers  of  government  into  the  hands  of  the  gen- 
eral legislature ;  to  establish  means  for  corrupting  a  sufficient 
corps  in  that  legislature  to  divide  the  honest  votes,  and  prepon- 
derate by  their  own  the  scale  which  suits,  and  to  have  that  corps 
under  the  command  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  for  the 
purpose  of  subverting,  step  by  step,  the  principles  of  the  Consti- 
tution, which  he  has  so  often  declared  to  be  a  thing  of  nothing, 
which  must  be  changed.  Such  views  might  have  justified  some- 
thing more  than  mere  expressions  of  dissent,  beyond  which, 
nevertheless,  I  never  went.  Has  abstinence  from  the  department 
committed  to  me,  been  equally  observed  by  him  ?  to  say  nothing 
of  other  interferences  equally  known,  in  the  case  of  the  two  na- 
tions with  which  we  have  the  most  intimate  connections,  France 
and  England.  My  system  was,  to  give  some  satisfactory  distinc- 
tions to  the  former,  of  little  cost  to  us,  in  return  for  the  solid  ad- 
vantages yielded  us  by  them ;  and  to  have  met  the  English  with 
some  restrictions  which  might  induce  them  to  abate  their  severi- 
ties against  our  commerce.  I  have  always  supposed  this  coin- 
cided with  your  sentiments.  Yet  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury, 
by  his  cabals  with  members  of  the  legislature,  and  by  high-toned 


jEt.35.]  cabinet    papers.  297 

declamations  on  other  occasions,  has  forced  down  his  own  sys- 
tem, which  was  exactly  the  reverse.  He  undertook,  of  his  own 
authority,  the  conferences  with  the  ministers  of  these  two  nations ; 
and  was  on  every  consultation  provided  with  some  report  of  a 
conversation  with  the  one  or  the  other  of  them,  adapted  to  his 
views.  These  views,  thus  made  to  prevail,  their  execution  fell 
of  course  to  me ;  and  I  can  safely  appeal  to  you,  who  have  seen 
all  my  letters  and  proceedings,  whether  I  have  not  carried  them 
into  execution,  as  sincerely  as  if  they  had  been  my  own ;  though 
I  ever  considered  them  as  inconsistent  with  the  honor  and  inter- 
est of  our  country.  That  they  have  been  inconsistent  with  our 
interest,  is  but  too  fatally  proved  by  the  stab  to  our  navigation 
given  by  the  French ;  so  that  if  the  question  be,  By  whose  fault 
is  it  that  Col.  Hamilton  and  myself  have  not  drawn  together? 
the  answer  will  depend  on  that  to  two  other  questions — Whose 
principles  of  administration  best  justify,  by  their  purity,  consci- 
entious adherence  ?  and,  Which  of  us  has,  notwithstanding,  step- 
ped farthest  into  the  control  of  the  department  of  the  other  ? 

To  this  justification  of  opinions,  expressed  in  the  way  of  con- 
versation against  the  views  of  Colonel  Hamilton,  I  beg  leave  to 
add  some  notice  of  his  late  charges  against  me  in  Fenno's 
Gazette,  for  neither  the  style,  matter,  nor  venom  of  the  pieces 
alluded  to,  can  leave  a  doubt  of  their  author.  Spelling  my  name 
and  character  at  full  length  to  the  public,  while  he  conceals  his 
own  under  the  signature  of  "  An  American,"  he  charges  me,  1st, 
with  having  written  letters  from  Europe  to  my  friends,  to  oppose 
the  present  Constitution  while  depending ;  2d,  with  a  desire  of 
not  paying  the  public  debt ;  3d,  with  setting  up  a  paper  to  decry 
and  slander  the  government.  1st.  The  first  charge  is  most 
false.  No  man  in  the  United  States,  I  suppose,  approved  of 
every  tittle  in  the  Constitution :  no  one,  I  believe,  approved  of 
more  of  it  than  I  did ;  and  more  of  it  was  certainly  disapproved 
by  my  accuser,  than  by  me,  and  of  its  parts  most  vitally  repub- 
lican. Of  this  the  few  letters  I  wrote  on  the  subject  (not  half  a 
dozen  I  believe),  will  be  a  proof;  and  for  my  own  satisfaction 
and  justification,  I  must  tax  you  with  the  reading  of  them,  when 
I  return  to  where  they  are.     You  will  then  see  that  my  objection 


298  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  35. 

to  the  Constitution  was,  that  it  wanted  a  bill  of  rights ; — securing 
freedom  of  religion, — freedom  of  the  press, — freedom  from  stand- 
ing armies, — trial  by  jury, — and  a  constant  Habeas  Corpus  Act. 
Colonel  Hamilton's  was,  that  it  wanted  a  king  and  house  of 
lords.  The  sense  of  America  has  approved  my  objection,  and 
added  the  bill  of  rights,  not  the  king  and  lords.  I  also  thought 
a  longer  term  of  service,  insusceptible  of  renewal,  would  have 
made  a  President  more  independent.  My  country  has  thought 
otherwise,  and  I  have  acquiesced  implicitly.  He  wished  the 
general  government  should  have  power  to  make  laws,  binding 
the  States  in  all  cases  whatsoever — our  country  has  thought 
otherwise :  has  he  acquiesced  ? 

Notwithstanding  my  wish  for  a  bill  of  rights,  my  letters 
strongly  urged  the  adoption  of  the  Constitution  by  nine  States  at 
least,  to  secure  the  good  it  contained.  I  at  first  thought  that  the 
best  method  of  securing  the  bill  of  rights  would  be  for  four 
States  to  hold  off  till  such  a  bill  should  be  agreed  to.  But  the 
moment  I  saw  Mr.  Hancock's  proposition  to  pass  the  Constitution 
as  it  stood,  and  give  perpetual  instructions  to  the  representatives 
of  every  State,  to  insist  on  a  bill  of  rights,  I  acknowledged  the 
superiority  of  his  plan,  and  advocated  universal  adoption. 

2d.  The  second  charge  is  equally  untrue.  My  whole  corres- 
pondence while  in  France,  and  every  word,  letter,  and  act  on  the 
subject  since  my  return,  prove  that  no  man  is  more  ardently 
intent  to  see  the  public  debt  soon  and  sacredly  paid  off  than  I 
am.  This  exactly  makes  the  difference  between  Colonel  Hamil- 
ton's views  and  mine,  that  I  would  wish  the  debt  paid  to-morrow ; 
he  wishes  it  never  to  be  paid,  but  always  to  be  a  thing  where- 
with to  corrupt  and  manage  the  legislature.   ) 


3d.  I  have  never  inquired  what  number  of  sons,  relations 
and  friends  of  senators,  representatives,  printers,  or  other  useful 
partisans  Colonel  Hamilton  has  provided  for  among  the  hundred 
clerks  of  his  department,  the  thousand  excise  men,  custom-house 
officers,  loan  officers,  &c,  &c,  &c,  appointed  by  him,  or  at  his 
nod,  and  spread  over  the  Union ;  nor  could  have  ever  imagined 
that  the  man  who  has  the  shuffling  of  millions  backwards  and 
forwards,  from  paper  into  money,  and  money  into  paper,  from 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  299 

Europe  to  America,  and  America  to  Europe — the  dealing  out  of 
treasury  secrets  among  his  friends,  in  what  time  and  measure  he 
pleases,  and  who  never  slips  an  occasion  of  making  friends 
with  his  means : — that  such  an  one,  I  say,  would  have  brought 
forward  a  charge  against  me  for  having  appointed  the  poet 
Freneau  translating  clerk  to  my  office,  with  a  salary  of  $250  a 
year.  That  fact  stands  thus.  While  the  government  was  at 
New- York,  I  was  appealed  to  on  behalf  of  Freneau,  to  know 
if  there  was  any  place  within  my  department,  to  which  he  could 
be  appointed.  I  answered  there  were  but  four  clerkships,  all  of 
which  I  found  full,  and  continued  without  any  change.  When 
we  removed  to  Philadelphia,  Mr.  Pintard,  the  translating  clerk, 
did  not  choose  to  remove  with  us ;  his  office  then  became  vacant. 
I  was  again  applied  to  there,  for  Freneau,  and  had  no  hesitation 
to  promise  the  clerkship  for  him.  I  cannot  recollect  whether  it 
was  at  the  same  time  or  afterwards  that  I  was  told  he  had  a 
thought  of  setting  up  a  newspaper  there ;  but  whether  then  or 
afterwards  I  considered  it  a  circumstance  of  some  value,  as  it 
might  enable  me  to  do,  what  I  had  long  wished  to  have  done  ;  that 
is,  to  have  the  material  parts  of  the  Leyden  Gazette  brought 
under  your  eye  and  that  of  the  public,  in  order  to  possess  your- 
self and  them  of  a  juster  view  of  the  affairs  of  Europe,  than 
could  be  obtained  from  any  other  public  source.  This  I  had 
ineffectually  attempted  through  the  press  of  Mr.  Fenno  while  in 
New-York,  selecting  and  translating  passages,  myself  at  first, 
then  having  it  done  by  Mr.  Pintard,  the  translating  clerk.  But 
they  found  their  way  too  slowly  into  Mr.  Fenno's  papers.  Mr. 
Bache  essayed  it  for  me  in  Philadelphia ;  but  his  being  a  daily 
paper,  did  not  circulate  sufficiently  in  the  other  States.  He  even 
tried,  at  my  request,  the  plan  of  a  weekly  paper  of  recapitula- 
tion, from  his  daily  paper,  in  hopes  that  that  might  go  into  the 
other  States  ;  but  in  this  too,  we  failed.  Freneau  as  translating 
clerk,  and  the  printer  of  a  periodical  paper,  likely  to  circulate 
through  the  States,  (uniting  in  one  person  the  parts  of  Pintard 
and  Fenno,)  revived  my  hopes  that  the  thing  could  at  length  be 
effected.  On  the  establishment  of  his  paper,  therefore,  I  fur- 
nished him  with  the  Leyden  Gazettes,  with  an  expression  of  my 


300  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

wish  that  he  would  always  translate  and  publish  the  material  in- 
telligence they  contained  ;  and  I  have  continued  to  furnish  them 
from  time  to  time,  as  regularly  as  I  received  them.  But  as  to 
any  other  direction  or  indication  of  my  wish,  how  his  press 
should  be  conducted,  what  sort  of  intelligence  he  should  give, 
what  essays  encourage,  I  can  protest  in  the  presence  of  heaven, 
that  I  never  did,  by  myself  or  any  other,  directly  or  indirectly, 
say  a  syllable,  nor  attempt  any  kind  of  influence.  I  can  further 
protest  in  the  same  awful  presence,  that  I  never  did,  by  myself  or 
any  other,  directly  or  indirectly,  write,  dictate,  or  procure  any 
one  sentiment  or  sentence  to  be  inserted  in  his,  or  any  other 
gazette,  to  which  my  name  was  not  affixed,  or  that  of  my  office. 

I  surely  need  not  except  here  a  thing  so  foreign  to  the  present 
subject,  as  a  little  paragraph  about  our  Algerine  captives,  which 
I  put  once  into  Fenno's  paper.  Freneau's  proposition  to  publish 
a  paper  having  been  about  the  time  that  the  writings  of  Publicola 
and  the  discourses  on  Davila  had  a  good  deal  excited  the  public 
attention,  I  took  for  granted,  from  Freneau's  character,  which 
had  been  marked  as  that  of  a  good  Whig,  that  he  would  give 
free  place  to  pieces  written  against  the  aristocratical  and  mo- 
narchical principles  these  papers  had  inculcated. 

This  having  been  in  my  mind,  it  is  likely  enough  I  may  have 
expressed  it  in  conversation  with  others,  though  I  do  not  recol- 
lect that  I  did ;  to  Freneau  I  think  I  could  not,  because  I  had 
still  seen  him  but  once,  and  that  was  at  a  public  table,  at  break- 
fast, at  Mrs.  Ellsworth's,  as  I  passed  through  New- York,  the  last 
year;  and  I  can  safely  declare  that  my  expectations  looked  only 
to  the  chastisement  of  the  aristocratical  and  monarchical  writers, 
and  not  to  any  criticisms  on  the  proceedings  of  the  government. 
Col.  Hamilton  can  see  no  motive  for  any-  appointment  but  that 
of  making  a  convenient  partisan ;  but  you,  sir,  who  have  received 
from  me  recommendations  of  a  Eittenhouse,  Barlow,  Paine,  will 
believe  that  talents  and  science  are  sufficient  motives  with  me  in 
appointments  to  which  they  are  fitted ;  and  that  Freneau,  as  a 
man  of  genius,  might  find  a  preference  in  my  eye  to  be  a  trans- 
lating clerk,  and  make  good  title  moreover  to  the  little  aids  I 
could  give  him  as  the  editor  of  a  gazette,  by  procuring  subscript 


JEt.35.]  CABINET     PAPERS.  301 

tions  to  his  paper,  as  I  did — some  before  it  appeared ;  and  as  I 
have  with  pleasure  done  for  the  labors  of  other  men  of  genius.  I 
hold  it  to  be  one  of  the  distinguishing  excellences  of  elective 
over  hereditary  successions,  that  the  talents  which  nature  has 
provided  in  sufficient  proportion  should  be  selected  by  the  society 
for  the  government  of  their  affairs,  rather  than  that  this  should 
be  transmitted  through  the  loins  of  knaves  and  fools,  passing 
from  the  debauchees  of  the  table  to  those  of  the  bed.  Col. 
Hamilton,  alias  "Plain  Facts,"  says  that  Freneau's  salary  began 
before  he  resided  in  Philadelphia.  I  do  not  know  what  quibble 
he  may  have  in  reserve  on  the  word  "residence;"  he  may  mean 
to  include  under  that  idea  the  removal  of  his  family,  for  I  believe 
he  removed  himself  before  his  family  did  to  Philadelphia ;  but  no 
act  of  mine  gave  commencement  to  his  salary  before  he  so  far 
took  up  his  abode  in  Philadelphia  as  to  be  sufficiently  in  readi- 
ness for  the  duties  of  the  office.  As  to  the  merits  or  demerits  of 
his  paper,  they  certainly  concern  me  not.  He  and  Fenno  are 
rivals  for  the  public  favor.  The  one  courts  them  by  flattery,  the 
other  by  censure ;  and  I  believe  it  will  be  admitted  that  the  one 
has  been  as  servile  as  the  other  severe.  But  is  not  the  dignity 
and  even  decency  of  government  committed,  when  one  of  its 
principal  ministers  enlists  himself  as  an  anonymous  writer,  or 
paragraphist,  for  either  the  one  or  the  other  of  them  ?  No  gov- 
ernment ought  to  be  without  censors ;  and  where  the  press  is 
free,  no  one  ever  will.  If  virtuous,  it  need  not  fear  the  fair 
operation  of  attack  and  defence :  nature  has  given  to  man  no 
other  means  of  sifting  out  the  truth  either  in  religion,  law,  or 
politics.  I  think  it  as  honorable  to  the  government  neither  to 
know  nor  notice  its  sycophants  or  censors,  as  it  would  be  undig- 
nified and  criminal  to  pamper  the  former  and  persecute  the  latter. 
So  much  for  the  past :  a  word  now  of  the  future. 

When  I  came  into  this  office,  it  was  with  a  resolution  to  retire 
from  it  as  soon  as  I  could  with  decency.  It  pretty  early  appeared 
to  me  that  the  proper  moment  would  be,  at  the  first  of  those 
epochs,  at  which  the  Constitution  seems  to  have  contemplated  a 
periodical  change  or  renewal  of  the  public  servants.  In  this  I 
was  confirmed  by  your  resolution  respecting  the  same  period ; 


302  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

from  which,  however,  I  am  happy  in  hoping  you  have  departed. 
I  look  to  that  period  with  the  longing  of  a  wave-worn  mariner, 
who  has  at  length  the  land  in  view ;  and  shall  count  the  days 
and  hours  which  still  lie  between  me  and  it.  In  the  mean  while, 
my  main  object  will  be  to  wind  up  the  business  of  my  office, 
avoiding  as  much  as  possible  all  new  enterprise.  With  the 
affairs  of  the  legislature,  as  I  never  did  intermeddle,  so  I  cer- 
tainly shall  not  now  begin.  I  am  more  desirous  to  predispose 
every  thing  for  the  repose  to  which  I  am  withdrawing,  than  ex- 
pose it  to  be  disturbed  by  newspaper  contests.  If  these,  however, 
cannot  be  avoided  altogether,  yet  a  regard  for  your  quiet  will  be 
a  sufficient  motive  for  deferring  it  till  I  become  merely  a  private 
citizen,  when  the  propriety  or  impropriety  of  what  I  may  say  or 
do  may  fall  on  myself  alone.  I  may  then,  too,  avoid  the  charge 
of  misapplying  that  time  which,  now  belonging  to  those  who 
employ  me,  should  be  wholly  devoted  to  their  service,  if  my  own 
justification,  or  the  interests  of  the  public,  shall  require  it.  I 
reserve  to  myself  the  right  of  then  appealing  to  my  country, 
subscribing  my  name  to  whatever  I  write,  and  using  with  free- 
dom and  truth,  the  facts  and  names  necessary  to  place  the  cause 
in  its  just  form  before  that  tribunal.  To  a  thorough  disregard  of 
the  honors  and  emoluments  of  office,  I  join  as  great  a  value  for 
the  esteem  of  my  countrymen ;  and,  conscious  of  having  merited 
it  by  an  integrity  which  cannot  be  reproached,  and  by  an  enthu- 
siastic devotion  to  their  rights  and  liberty,  I  will  not  suffer  my 
retirement  to  be  clouded  by  the  slanders  of  a  man,  whose  his- 
tory, from  the  moment  at  which  history  can  stoop  to  notice  him, 
is  a  tissue  of  machinations  against  the  liberty  of  the  country 
which  has  not  only  received  and  given  him  bread,  but  heaped  its 
honors  on  his  head.  Still,  however,  I  repeat  the  hope  that  it 
will  not  be  necessary  to  make  such  an  appeal.  Though  little 
known  to  the  people  of  America,  I  believe  that,  as  far  as  I  am 
known,  it  is  not  as  an  enemy  to  the  republic,  nor  an  intriguer 
against  it,  nor  a  waster  of  its  revenue,  nor  prostitutor  of  it  to  the 
purposes  of  corruption,  as  the  American  represents  me ;  and  I 
confide  that  yourself  are  satisfied  that,  as  to  dissensions  in  the 
newspapers,  not  a  syllable  of  them  has  ever  proceeded  from  me ; 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET     PAPERS.  303 

and  that  no  cabals  or  intrigues  of  mine  have  produced  those  in 
the  legislature ;  and  I  hope  I  may  promise  both  to  you  and  my- 
self, that  none  will  receive  aliment  from  me  during  the  short 
space  I  have  to  remain  in  office ;  which  will  find  ample  employ- 
ment in  closing  the  present  business  of  the  department. 

Observing  that  letters  written  at  Mount  Yernon  on  the  Mon- 
day, and  arriving  at  Eichmond  on  the  Wednesday,  reach  me  on 
Saturday,  I  have  now  the  honor  to  mention  that  the  22d  inst. 
will  be  the  last  of  our  post  days  that  I  shall  be  here,  and  conse- 
quently that  no  letter  from  you  after  the  17th  will  find  me  here. 
Soon  after  that,  I  shall  have  the  honor  of  receiving  at  Mount 
Vernon  your  orders  for  Philadelphia,  and  of  there  also  delivering 
you  the  little  matter  which  occurs  to  me  as  proper  for  the  open- 
ing of  Congress,  exclusive  of  what  has  been  recommended  in  for- 
mer speeches,  and  not  yet  acted  on. 

In  the  mean  time,  and  ever,  I  am,  with  great  and  sincere 
affection  and  respect,  dear  sir,  your  most  obedient  and  most 
humble  servant, 

Th.  Jefferson. 


HAMILTON"   TO   WASHINGTON". 

Philadelphia,  September  9th,  1792. 

Sir: 

I  have  the  pleasure  of  your  private  letter  of  the  26th  of 
August.  The  feelings  and  views  which  are  manifested  in  that 
letter,  are  such  as  I  expected  would  exist.  And  I  most  sincerely 
regret  the  causes  of  the  uneasy  sensations  you  experience.  It  is 
my  most  anxious  wish,  as  far  as  may  depend  upon  me,  to  smooth 
the  path  of  your  administration,  and  to  render  it  prosperous  and 
happy.  And  if  any  prospect  shall  open  of  healing  or  terminat- 
ing the  differences  which  exist,  I  shall  most  cheerfully  embrace 
it;  though  I  consider  myself  as  the  deeply  injured  party.  The 
recommendation  of  such  a  spirit  is  worthy  of  the  moderation  and 
wisdom  which  dictated  it.     And  if  your  endeavors  should  prove 


I 


304  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  35. 

unsuccessful,  I  do  not  hesitate  to  say,  that  in  my  opinion  the  pe- 
riod is  not  remote,  when  the  public  good  will  require  substitutes 
for  the  differing  members  of  your  administration.  The  continu- 
ance of  a  division  there  must  destroy  the  energy  of  govern- 
ment, which  will  be  little  enough  with  the  strictest  union.  On 
my  part  there  will  be  a  most  cheerful  acquiescence  in  such  a 
result. 

I  trust,  sir,  that  the  greatest  frankness  has  always  marked, 
and  will  always  mark,  every  step  of  my  conduct  towards  you. 
In  this  disposition  I  cannot  conceal  from  you,  that  I  have  had 
some  instrumentality  of  late  in  the  retaliations,  which  have  fallen 
upon  certain  public  characters,  and  that  I  find  myself  placed  in 
a  situation  not  to  be  able  to  recede  for  the  present. 

I  considered  myself  as  compelled  to  this  conduct  by  reasons 
public  as  well  as  personal,  of  the  most  cogent  nature.-  I  know 
that  I  have  been  an  object  of  uniform  opposition  from  Mr.  Jeffer- 
son, from  the  moment  of  his  coming  to  the  city  of  New- York  to 
enter  upon  his  present  ofhce.  I  know  from  the  most  authentic 
sources,  that  I  have  been  the  frequent  subject  of  the  most  unkind 
whispers  and  insinuations  from  the  same  quarter.  I  have  long 
seen  a  formed  party  in  the  legislature  under  his  auspices,  bent 
upon  my  subversion.  I  cannot  doubt  from  the  evidence  I  pos- 
sess, that  the  National  Gazette  was  instituted  by  him  for  political 
purposes,  and  that  one  leading  object  of  it  has  been  to  render 
me,  and  all  the  measures  connected  with  my  department,  as 
odious  as  possible.  Nevertheless,  I  can  truly  say,  that,  except 
explanations  to  confidential  friends,  I  never  directly  or  indi- 
rectly retaliated  or  countenanced  retaliation  till  very  -lately.  I 
can  even  assure  you,  that  I  was  instrumental  in  preventing  a 
very  severe  and  systematic  attack  upon  Mr.  Jefferson  by  an  asso- 
ciation of  two  or  three  individuals,  in  consequence  of  the  persecu- 
tion which  he  brought  upon  the  Yice-President,  by  his  indiscreet 
and  light  letter  to  the  printer,  transmitting  Paints  pamphlet. 

As  long  as  I  saw  no  danger  to  the  government  from  the  ma- 
chinations which  were  going  on,  I  resolved  to  be  a  silent  sufferer 
of  the  injuries  which  were  done  me.  I  determined  to  avoid  giv- 
ing occasion  to  any  thing,  which  could  manifest  to  the  world 


jEt.35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  305 

dissensions  among  the  principal  characters  of  the  government;  a 
thing  which  can  never  happen  without  weakening  its  hands,  and 
in  some  degree  throwing  a  stigma  upon  it. 

But  when  I  no  longer  doubted  that  there  was  a  formed  party- 
deliberately  bent  upon  the  subversion  of  measures,  which  in  its7 
consequences  would  subvert  the  government ;  when  I  saw  that 
the  undoing  of  the  funding  system  in  particular,  (which,  what- 
ever may  be  the  original  merits  of  that  system,  would  prostrate 
the  credit  and  the  honor  of  the  nation,  and  bring  the  government 
into  contempt  with  that  description  of  men,  who  are  in  every 
society  the  only  firm  supporters  of  government,)  was  an  avowed 
object  of  the  party  ;  and  that  all  possible  pains  were  taking  to 
produce  that  effect,  by  rendering  it  odious  to  the  body  of  the 
people,  I  considered  it  as  a  duty  to  endeavor  to  resist  the  tor- 
rent, and,  as  an  effectual  means  to  this  end,  to  draw  aside  the 
veil  from  the  principal  actors.  To  this  strong  impulse,  to  this 
decided  conviction,  I  have  yielded.  And  I  think  events  will 
prove  that  I  have  judged  rightly. 

Nevertheless,  I  pledge  my  honor  to  you,  sir,  that  if  you  shall 
hereafter  form  a  plan  to  re-unite  the  members  of  your  adminis- 
tration upon  some  steady  principle  of  co-operation,  I  will  faith- 
fully concur  in  executing  it  during  my  continuance  in  office ; 
and  I  will  not  directly  or  indirectly  say  or  do  a  thing  that  shall 
endanger  a  feud. 

I  have  had  it  very  much  at  heart  to  make  an  excursion  to 
Mount  Yernon,  by  way  of  the  federal  city,  in  the  course  of  this 
month,  and  have  been  more  than  once  on  the  point  of  asking 
your  permission  for  it.  But  I  now  despair  of  being  able  to 
effect  it.  I  am,  nevertheless,  equally  obliged  by  your  kind  in- 
vitation. 

The  subject  mentioned  in  the  postscript  of  your  letter  shall, 
with  great  pleasure,  be  carefully  attended  to. 

With  the  most  faithful  and  affectionate  attachment,  I  have 
the  honor  to  remain,  sir,  yours,  &c. 

Alexander  Hamilton. 

d  20 


306  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35, 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  Sept.  11,  1792. 

Sir: 

Herewith  is  an  official  letter,  submitting  the  draft  of  a  Procla- 
mation. I  reserve  some  observations  as  most  proper  for  a  private 
letter. 

In  the  case  of  a  former  proclamation,  I  observe  it  was  under 
the  seal  of  the  United  States,  and  countersigned  by  the  Secretary 
of  State.  If  the  precedent  was  now  to  be  formed,  I  should  ex- 
press a  doubt  whether  it  was  such  an  instrument  as  ought  to  be 
under  the  seal  of  the  United  States ;  and  I  believe  usage,  as  well 
in  this  country  under  the  State  governments  as  in  Great  Britain, 
would  be  found  against  it ;  but  the  practice  having  been  begun, 
there  are  many  reasons  which  in  this  instance  recommend  an 
adherence  to  it,  and  the  form  of  the  attestation  is  adapted  to  this 
idea. 

But  still,  if  the  Secretary  of  State  should  be  at  so  great  a 
distance,  or  if  an  uncertainty  of  his  being  in  the  way  should  in- 
volve the  probability  of  considerable  delay,  it  will  be  well  to 
consider  if  the  precedent  ought  not  to  be  departed  from.  In  this 
case,  the  attestation  will  be  required  to  be  varied,  so  as  to  omit 
from  the  words  "In  testimony"  to  the  words  "my  hand,"  inclu- 
sively, and  to  substitute  the  word  "Given"  to  "Done;"  and  it 
may  be  advisable  to  direct  the  Attorney-General  to  counter- 
sign it. 

Every  day's  delay  will  render  the  act  less  impressive,  and  de- 
feat part  of  its  object. 

The  propriety  of  issuing  the  proclamation  depends  of  course 
upon  a  resolution  to  act  in  conformity  to  it,  and  put  in  force 
all  the  powers  and  means  with  which  the  Executive  is  possessed, 
as  occasion  shall  require.  My  own  mind  is  made  up  fully  to  this 
issue,  and  on  this  my  suggestion  of  the  measure  is  founded. 
Your  letter  by  the  last  post,  confirming  former  intimations,  as- 
sures me  that  you  view  the  matter  in  the  same  light. 

The  words  in  the  proclamation,  "  dictated  by  weighty  reasons 


Ms.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  307 

of  public  exigency  and  policy,"  are  not  essential  to  the  general 
scope  of  it.  They  amount  to  an  additional  commitment  of  the 
President  on  the  question  of  the  merits  of  the  law,  and  will  re- 
quire to  be  well  considered. 

That  the  proclamation,  both  as  to  manner  and  matter,  will  be 
criticised,  cannot  be  matter  of  surprise,  if  it  should  happen,  to 
any  one  who  is  aware  of  the  lengths  to  which  a  certain  party  is 
prepared  to  go.     It  ought  to  be  anticipated  as  probable. 

In  a  step  so  delicate  and  so  full  of  responsibility,  I  thought 
it  my  duty  to  make  these  observations ;  though  I  was  sure  they 
would  of  themselves  occur. 

It  is  satisfactory  to  know  that  a  jury  in  Chester  county  con- 
victed a  person  who  was  guilty  of  assaulting  an  officer  of  inspec- 
tion. On  being  interrogated,  they  answered  that  they  had  found 
him  guilty  upon  the  count  in  the  indictment  which  charged  him 
with  assaulting  the  officer  in  the  execution  of  his  duty ;  that  the 
law  was  a  constitutional  act  of  government,  and  was  not  to  be 
resisted  by  violence.  I  have  directed  Mr.  Coxe  to  collect  and 
publish  the  particulars.     The  symptom  is  a  good  one. 

With  the  most  faithful  and  affectionate  attachment,  &o. 


HAMILTON  TO   SHORT. 
Treasury  Department,  Philadelphia,  Sept.  13,  1792. 

Sir: 

Having  been  authorized  by  the  President  to  take  arrange- 
ments for  paying  off  the  debt  due  to  foreign  officers,  the  interest 
of  which  is  payable  at  the  house  of  Mr.  Grand,  banker,  at  Paris ; 
and  having  concluded  to  commit  to  Gouverneur  Morris,  Esquire, 
being  on  the  spot,  the  management  of  the  detail  as  to  the  pay- 
ment of  interest  (that  of  the  principal  being  to  be  made  here),  I 
am  to  request  that  you  will  instruct  our  commissioners  in  Hol- 
land to  pay  to  the  order  of  Mr.  Morris  the  sum  of  one  hundred 
and  five  thousand  guilders,  to  be  applied  to  that  purpose,  and 


308  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  35. 

will  cause  him  to  be  immediately  notified  of  its  having  been 
done.  A  copy  of  a  letter  of  instructions  to  Mr.  Morris  is  inclosed 
for  your  information. 


HAMILTON  TO   MOEEIS. 

Treasury  Department,  September  13th,  1792. 

Sir: 

The  legislature,  at  their  last  session,  having  made  provision 
for  the  paying  off  the  debt  due  to  foreign  officers,  the  interest  of 
which  is  payable  at  the  house  of  Mr.  Grand,  banker,  at  Paris; 
and  the  President  having  authorized  me  to  carry  that  provision 
into  effect ;  I  have  concluded  to  commit  such  part  of  the  business 
as  is  to  be  transacted  at  Paris,  to  your  management,  not  doubt- 
ing of  the  cheerfulness  with  which  you  will  render  this  service 
to  the  public  and  to  my  particular  department. 

The  object  not  regarding  your  diplomatic  mission,  and  Mr. 
Jefferson  being  absent  from  the  seat  of  government,  I  open 
without  scruple  a  direct  communication  with  you  on  the  subject. 

By  the  tenor  of  the  certificates  which  were  issued,  the  stipu- 
lation to  pay  at  Paris  is  confined  to  the  interest.  The  principal 
is,  of  course,  payable  in  the  United  States. 

To  enable  you  to  make  the  payment  of  this  interest,  Mr. 
Short  is  directed  to  subject  to  your  order,  in  the  hands  of  our 
commissioners  in  Holland,  the  sum  of  one  hundred  and  five 
thousand  guilders. 

Inclosed  is  a  list  showing  the  names  of  the  persons  to  be 
paid,  and  the  amount  of  principal  and  interest  due  to  each ; 
computing  interest  from  the  1st  day  of  January,  1789,  up  to  the 
last  of  the  present  year. 

The  reason  of  beginning  at  the  1st  of  January,  1789,  is,  that 
Congress  placed  a  fund  in  the  disposition  of  their  then  minister 
plenipotentiary  to  make  payments  up  to  that  time  ;  and  though 
an  account  of  the  application  of  that  sum  has  not  been  ren- 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  309 

dered,  it  is  understood  that  the  payment  provided  for  was 
made. 

By  the  list  referred  to,  yon  will  find  that  the  sum  directed  to 
be  placed  at  your  order  is  adequate  to  the  object. 

The  instruction  of  the  President  to  me  is,  to  cause  the  pay- 
ment to  be  made  in  "a  mode  which  will  exempt  the  parties 
from  the  loss  attendant  on  the  depreciation  of  the  assi gnats,  and, 
at  the  same  time,  occasion  no  loss  to  the  United  States." 

The  line  of  conduct  which  has  appeared  to  me  proper  to  ful- 
fil the  spirit  of  this  instruction  is,  to  give  to  each  creditor  his 
option  either  to  receive  bills  on  Amsterdam,  dollar  for  dollar, 
according  to  the  intrinsic  par  of  the  metals  at  Paris  and  Amster- 
dam, or  to  receive  an  equivalent  in  assignats  according  to  the 
current  rate  of  exchange  between  Paris  and  Holland  at  the 
time. 

To  exemplify  what  is  meant  by  an  equivalent,  suppose  the 
following  data : 

1.  That  two  and  a  half  guilders  are  equal  to  a  dollar,  ac- 
cording to  the  intrinsic  par  of  the  metals  at  Paris  and  Am- 
sterdam. 

2.  That  the  current  rate  of  exchange  between  the  two  places 
is  20  per  cent,  against  Paris ;  that  is,  100  guilders  at  Paris  will 
bring  only  80  at  Amsterdam. 

3.  That  the  sum  to  be  paid  for  principal  and  interest  is  100 
dollars. 

The  computation  to  ascertain  the  equivalent  will  then  stand 
thus : 

If  80  be  equal  to  100,  so  will  100  be  equal  to  125.  125  X 
2^=312^  guilders ;  which  being  converted  into  livres,  at  par,  will 
be  to  be  paid  in  assignats,  at  their  nominal  value,  livrefor  litre. 

I  have  made  an  arrangement  to  begin  the  discharge  of  the 
principal  here  at  any  time  after  the  15th  of  October  next,  upon 
demand,  and  the  production  of  the  certificate  by  the  party,  or 
his  legal  representative,  or  attorney  duly  constituted  and  au- 
thorized. Notice  will  be  given,  that  after  the  1st  of  December 
next,  interest  will  cease  as  to  all  those  who  shall  not  have  made 
application  for  their  principal  by  that  day. 


310  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

I  request  that  you  will  also  cause  some  proper  notification  of 
this  arrangement  to  be  given  in  France. 

As  the  certificates  will  be  required  to  be  produced  here,  the 
payment  of  interest  at  Paris  must  be  made  without  the  produc- 
tion of  them.  Especial  care  must,  of  course,  be  taken  to  ascer- 
tain that  the  payments  are  made  to  the  identical  creditors,  or 
their  certain  attorneys.  It  will  be  well  that  duplicate  or  tripli- 
cate receipts  be  taken  for  such  payments,  in  order  that  one  or 
more  sets  may  be  transmitted  with  the  accounts  current. 

Should  there  be  any  who  may  prefer  receiving  their  whole 
dues,  interest  as  well  as  principal,  here,  they  may  have  the 
option  of  doing  it ;  but  in  this  case  they  must  make  known  their 
election  to  you,  or  to  some  person  whom  you  shall  appoint,  and 
must  obtain  a  certificate  from  you,  or  the  person  appointed  by 
you,  of  their  having  made  and  communicated  that  election. 
Should  you  authorize  another  person  for  the  purpose,  you  will 
please  to  inform  me,  without  delay,  who  he  is,  and  send  me  his 
signature. 

The  payments  are  stipulated  to  be  made  at  the  house  of  Mr. 
Grand ;  and  those  Avhich  have  been  heretofore  made  have  passed 
through  his  hands.  The  same  course  will  be  proper,  unless  there 
are  good  reasons  to  the  contrary.  You,  who  are  on  the  spot, 
will  judge  how  far  any  such  reasons  may  have  resulted  from  the 
tempests  which  have  of  late  agitated  the  kingdom,  and  you  will 
act  accordingly.  Nobody  knows  better  than  you  how  important 
it  is  to  make  no  missteps  in  money  concerns. 

With  the  most  respectful  consideration,  I  have  the  honor  to 
be,  &c. 

P.  S.  Herewith  you  will  also  find  the  evidence  of  a  claim 
which  has  been  lodged  at  the  Treasury  on  behalf  of  Mr.  Claviere, 
that  what  is  right  in  the  matter  may  be  done.  A  copy  of  an 
advertisement  from  the  Treasurer,  of  the  seventeenth  instant,  is 
also  inclosed. 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET     PAPERS.  311 


PROCLAMATION. 

Sept.  loth,  1792. 

Whereas  certain  violent  and  unwarrantable  proceedings  have 
lately  taken  place,  tending  to  obstruct  the  operation  of  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  for  raising  revenue  upon  spirits  distilled 
within  the  same,  enacted  pursuant  to  express  authority  dele- 
gated in  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  which  pro- 
ceedings are  subversive  of  good  order,  contrary  to  the  duty  that 
every  citizen  owes  to  his  country  and  to  the  laws,  and  of  a  na- 
ture dangerous  to  the  very  being  of  government ; 

And  whereas  such  proceedings  are  the  more  unwarrantable,  by 
reason  of  the  moderation  which  has  been  heretofore  shown  on  the 
part  of  the  government,  and  of  the  disposition  manifested  by  the 
legislature  (who  alone  have  authority  to  suspend  the  operation  of 
laws)  to  obviate  causes  of  objection  and  render  the  laws  as  ac- 
ceptable as  possible ;  and  whereas  it  is  the  particular  duty  of  the 
Executive  "to  take  care  that  the  laws  be  faithfully  executed;" 
and  not  only  that  duty,  but  the  permanent  interest  and  happi- 
ness of  the  people,  require,  that  every  legal  and  necessary  step 
should  be  pursued,  as  well  to  prevent  such  violent  and  unwar- 
rantable proceedings  as  to  bring  to  justice  the  infractors  of  the 
laws,  and  secure  obebience  thereto ; 

Now,  therefore,  I,  George  Washington,  President  of  the 
United  States,  do  by  these  presents  most  earnestly  admonish  and 
exhort  all  persons  whom  it  may  concern  to  refrain  and  desist 
from  all  unlawful  combinations  and  proceedings  whatsoever, 
having  for  object  or  tending  to  obstruct  the  operation  of  the  laws 
aforesaid ;  inasmuch  as  all  lawful  ways  and  means  will  be  shortly 
put  in  execution  for  bringing  to  justice  the  infractors  thereof, 
and  securing  obedience  thereto. 

And  1  do  moreover  charge  and  require  all  courts,  magistrates 
and  officers  whom  it  may  concern,  according  to  the  duties  of 
their  several  offices,  to  exert  the  powers  in  them  respectively 
vested  by  law  for  the  purposes  aforesaid ;  hereby  also  enjoining 
and  requiring  all  persons  whomsoever,  as  they  tender  the  wel- 


312  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  35. 

fare  of  their  country,  the  just  and  due  authority  of  government, 
and  the  preservation  of  the  public  peace,  to  be  aiding  and  assisting 
therein  according  to  law. 

In  testimony  whereof  I  have  caused  the  seal  of  the  United 
States  to  be  affixed  to  these  presents,  and  signed  the  same  with, 
my  hand.  Done  this  15th  day  of  September,  in  the  year  of 
our  Lord  1792,  and  of  the  Independence  of  the  United  States  the 
seventeenth. 

George  "Washington. 

By  the  President. 

Th.  Jefferson. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Mount  Vernon,  September  16,  1792. 

Dear  Sir  : 

Your  private  letter  of  the  11th,  accompanying  an  official  one 
of  the  9th,  came  safe,  as  did  your  other  private  letter  of  the  9th; 
and  I  feel  myself  obliged  by  the  observations  contained  in  the 
first  respecting  the  proclamation. 

As  the  former  proclamations  on  similar  occasions  have  been 
countersigned  by  the  Secretary  of  State,  I  have,  for  that  reason, 
and  for  another  which  has  some  weight  in  my  mind,  thought  it 
best  not  to  depart  in  this  instance  from  the  precedent  which  has 
been  set ;  and,  therefore,  as  it  cannot,  unless  unforeseen  delays 
happen,  be  withheld  from  you  more  than  six  days  longer  than  if 
it  had  been  returned  by  this  day's  post,  I  despatched  by  express 
the  proclamation  to  Mr.  Jefferson,  for  the  purpose  above  men- 
tioned. 

I  have  no  doubt  that  the  proclamation  will  undergo  many 
strictures ;  and  as  the  effect  proposed  may  not  be  answered  by  it, 
it  will  be  necessary  to  look  forward  in  time  to  ulterior  arrange- 
ments. And  here  not  only  the  Constitution  and  laws  must 
strictly  govern,  but  the  employing  the  regular  troops  be  avoided, 
if  it  be  possible  to  effect  order  without  their  aid ;  otherwise  there 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET     PAPERS.  313 

would  be  a  cry  at  once,  "  The  cat  is  let  out ;  we  now  see  for  what 
purpose  an  army  was  raised."  Yet,  if  no  other  means  will 
effectually  answer,  and  the  Constitution  and  laws  will  authorize 
these,  they  must  be  used  as  a  dernier  resort. 

If  you  remain  in  opinion  that  it  would  be  advisable  for  the 
President  to  transmit  the  proclamation  to  the  Governors  of 
North  and  South  Carolina,  and  to  the  Governor  of  Pennsylvania, 
I  pray  you  to  draft  such  letters  to  them,  to  be  forwarded  from 
hence  (with  proclamations,  which  must  also  be  sent  to  me),  as 
you  may  think  best  calculated  to  produce  the  end  proposed. 


WASHINGTON  TO   HAMILTON. 

Mount  Vernon,  Sept.  17th,  1792. 

Sir: 

Your  letters  of  the  8th  and  9th  inst.  are  received.  The  latter 
came  to  me  on  Saturday  morning,  by  express,  from  the  post- 
office  in  Alexandria.  I  gave  the  proclamation  my  signature, 
and  forwarded  it  in  the  afternoon  of  the  same  day,  by  a  special 
messenger,  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  for  his  countersign.  If  no 
unforeseen  delay  happens,  the  return  of  it  may  be  in  time  for 
Friday's  post,  so  as  to  be  with  you  the  Tuesday  following. 

It  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  occurrences  of  a  nature  so  re- 
pugnant to  order  and  good  government  should  not  only  afford 
the  occasion,  but  render  such  an  interference  of  the  Executive  in- 
dispensably necessary.  When  these  happen,  and  lenient  and 
temporizing  means  have  been  used,  and  serve  only  to  increase 
tjie  disorder,  longer  forbearance  would  become  unjustifiable  re- 
missness, and  a  neglect  of  that  duty  which  is  enjoined  on  the 
President.  I  can  have  no  hesitation,  therefore,  under  this  view 
of  the  case,  to  adopt  such  legal  measures  to  check  the  disorderly 
opposition  which  is  given  to  the  execution  of  the  laws  laying  a 
duty  on  distilled  spirits,  as  the  Constitution  has  invested  the 
Executive  with ;  and  however  painful  the  measure  would  be,  if 


314  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  35. 

the  proclamation  should  fail  to  produce  the  effect  desired,  ulte- 
rior arrangements  must  be  made  to  support  the  laws,  and  to  pre- 
vent the  prostration  of  government. 

Were  it  not  for  the  peculiar  circumstances  of  my  family,  I 
would  return  to  the  seat  of  government  immediately ;  at  any 
rate,  I  hope  to  do  it  in  the  early  part  of  the  next  month,  or  be- 
fore the  middle  thereof.     With  esteem  and  regard,  &c. 


JEFFERSON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Monticello,  18th  September,  1792. 

Dear  Sir  : 

Your  express  is  this  moment  arrived  with  the  proclamation 
on  the  proceedings  against  the  laws  for  raising  a  revenue  on  dis- 
tilled spirits,  and  I  return  it  here  inclosed  with  my  signature. 

I  think  if  instead  of  the  words  "  to  render  laws  dictated  by 
weighty  reasons  of  public  exigency  and  policy  as  acceptable  as 
possible,"  it  stood  "to  render  the  laws  as  acceptable  as  possible," 
it  would  be  better.  I  see  no  other  particular  expressions  which 
need  alteration.  I  am  sincerely  sorry  to  learn  that  such  pro- 
ceedings have  taken  place,  and  I  hope  the  proclamation  will  lead 
the  persons  concerned  into  a  regular  line  of  application,  which 
may  end  either  in  an  amendment  of  the  law  if  it  needs  it,  or  in 
their  conviction  that  it  is  right. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Mount  Vernon,  September  21st,  1792. 

Sir: 

Under  cover  of  this  letter  you  will  receive  the  proclamation, 
which  is  just  returned  to  me  with  the  countersignature  of  the  Sec- 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  '        315 

retary  of  State.  I  have  erased  the  words  "  dictated  by  weighty 
reasons  of  public  exigency,"  and  scored  others  with  a  pencil, 
which  you  are  hereby  authorized  to  take  out  or  retain  as  you 
may  think  best. 

As  the  instrument  is  drawn,  I  could  do  no  otherwise  than 
fill  up  one  of  the  blanks  with  the  name  of  the  place  at  which  I 
now  am,  but,  as  it  is  to  have  a  general  circulation,  you  may  de- 
cide upon  the  propriety  of  this,  and  alter  or  let  it  stand,  accord- 
ing to  your  judgment. 

With  esteem,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  September  22d,  1792. 

Sir: 

I  have  been  duly  honored  with  your  letters  of  the  7th  and 
17th  instant,  and  perceive  with  much  pleasure  a  confirmation  of 
the  expectation  which  your  former  communications  had  given, 
that  your  view  of  the  measures  proper  to  be  pursued  respecting 
the  proceedings  therein  referred  to,  would  correspond  with  the 
impressions  entertained  here. 

I  flatter  myself  that  the  proclamation  will  answer  a  very 
valuable  purpose  ;  but  every  thing,  which  the  law  and  prudence 
will  warrant,  will  be  put  in  train  as  circumstances  shall  indicate, 
for  such  eventual  measures  as  may  be  found  necessary.  I  do 
not  however  despair  that,  with  a  proper  countenance,  the  ordi- 
nary course  of  legal  coercion  will  be  found  adequate. 

The  inclosed  copy  of  a  letter  from  the  Inspector  of  Kentucky 
to  the  Supervisor  of  Yirginia,  of  the  12th  of  July  last,  and  the 
copy  of  a  letter  from  one  of  his  collectors  to  him  of  the  1st  of 
June,  contain  interesting,  and,  comparatively,  not  discouraging 
matter  respecting  the  state  of  things  in  that  survey. 

The  Supervisor  of  Yirginia,  in  a  letter  to  the  Commissioner  of 
the  Revenue  of  the  10th  instant,  expresses  himself  thus — "  I  can 
truly  say  that  the  excise  is  now  fairly  on  its  legs  in  this  district ; 


316  HAMILTON'S     WORKS.  [^Et.  35. 

it  rests  on  the  good  will  of  the  greater  part  of  the  people,  and 
our  collectors  are  from  no  cause  indisposed  to  the  service,  but 
the  apprehension  of  too  much  business  for  too  little  compensa- 
tion." A  letter  from  Mr.  Hawkins  (Senator)  to  Mr.  Coxe,  an- 
nounces favorable  symptoms  in  the  part  of  North  Carolina  which 
is  in  the  vicinity  of  his  residence. 

On  the  whole,  I  see  no  cause  of  apprehension  but  that  the 
law  will  finally  go  into  full  operation,  with  as  much  good  will  of 
the  people  as  usually  attends  revenue  laws. 

You  will  be  pleased  also  to  find  inclosed  a  letter  from  the 
Commissioner  of  Eevenue  to  me,  dated  the  12th  instant,  submit- 
ting an  arrangement  for  compensating  the  officers  of  inspection 
for  the  period  antecedent  to  the  commencement  of  the  permanent 
arrangement  which  you  lately  established ;  and  the  plan  of  an 
act  for  that  purpose,  to  be  passed  by  the  President,  if  approved 
by  him ;  together  with  an  estimate  of  the  total  expense  of  the 
proposed  arrangement. 

The  law  has  made  provision  for  a  retrospective  increase  of 
compensation,  at  the  direction  of  the  President ;  and  as  the  out- 
set of  the  business  will  have  been  of  course  the  most  perplexing 
and  troublesome,  nothing  can  be  more  equitable  than  such  a 
retrospection,  except  in  those  particulars  in  which  the  increased 
compensations  would  either  be  inapplicable,  or  liable  to  abuse. 
It  will  have,  besides,  the  good  effect  of  stimulating  the  zeal  of 
the  officers,  by  showing  a  liberal  attention  to  their  past  services, 
hitherto  defectively  requited. 

The  plan  submitted  is  the  result  of  previous  consultation  be- 
tween the  Commissioner  of  the  Revenue  and  myself,  and  appears 
to  me  an  eligible  medium. 

The  petition  from  the  keeper  of  the  Rhode  Island  light-house 
has  been  put  in  a  course  of  inquiry,  and  the  result  will  be  made 
known. 

The  light-house  in  Yirginia  being  nearly  finished,  a  trusty 
keeper  of  it  will  be  speedily  necessary.  A  letter  from  David  M. 
Randolph,  Esq.,  to  Governor  Lee,  which  was  transmitted  by  him 
to  me,  and  is  inclosed,  recommends  for  the  purpose  the  name  of 
John  Waller  Johnson  ;  but  I  have  no  other  information  concern- 


J^t.  35.]  CABINET     PAPERS.  317 

ing  him.  You  will  probably  recollect,  sir,  a  person  who,  some 
time  since,  was  recommended  by  Colonel  Parker — a  man  who,  it 
seems,  was  very  active  during  the  war,  and  distinguished  himself 
in  some  water  enterprises ;  but  who  appeared  much  addicted  to 
liquor,  a  fault  peculiarly  disqualifying  in  such  a  station.  I  re- 
gret that  I  forget  his  name.  I  believe  he  was  disabled  in  one  of 
his  arms.  ISTo  other  candidate  has  been  brought  forward.  A 
letter  has  been  written  to  Mr.  Newton,  mentioning  Mr.  Johnson 
to  him,  and  requesting  him  to  communicate  his  opinion  of  him 
to  you,  and  of  any  other  character  who  might  occur. 

Pursuant  to  the  authorization  in  your  letter  of  the  7th  instant, 
measures  have  been  taken  for  discharging  the  debts  due  to  foreign 
officers.  Upon  a  review  of  the  tenor  of  the  certificates  in  order 
to  this,  it  appeared  that  the  interest  only  was  payable  at  Paris, 
the  principal  here.  Had  it  been  clear  that  motives  of  accommo- 
dation would  render  the  payment  both  of  principal  and  interest 
there  desirable,  there  might  have  been  difficulty  in  justifying  the 
regularity  of  the  proceeding,  and  of  course  hazard  of  blame,  espe- 
cially if  any  mistake  or  accident  in  the  execution  had  happened. 
But  it  is  very  possible  that  payment  in  the  United  States  will  be 
most  agreeable  to  the  greatest  number.  The  arrangement  of 
course  embraces  the  payment  of  interest  at  Paris,  of  principal  at 
the  Treasury;  but  with  an  option  to  those  who  choose  it,  to 
receive  both  at  the  Treasury,  as  will  be  more  particularly  seen 
by  the  inclosed  copy  of  an  advertisement  by  the  Treasurer. 
With  the  highest  respect  and  truest  attachment,  &c. 

P.  S. — I  have  the  pleasure  to  transmit  herewith  a  letter  from 
Mr.  G.  Morris,  which  was  handed  to  me  by  Mr.  K.  Morris.  The 
Supervisor  has  been  desired  to  forward  to  the  Circuit  Court  at 
Yorktown  such  proof  as  he  should  be  able  to  collect,  addressed 
to  the  Attorney-General.  It  will,  I  perceive,  be  satisfactory 
to  that  officer  to  receive  your  direction  to  proceed  there.  His 
presence  is  of  importance,  as  well  to  give  weight  to  what  it  may 
be  proper  to  do,  as  to  afford  security  that  nothing  which  cannot 
be  supported  will  be  attempted.  I  submit  the  expediency  of  a 
line  from  you  to  him. 


318  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 


WASHINGTON    TO    GOVERNORS  OF    PENNSYLVANIA    AND    NORTH 

AND  SOUTH  CAROLINA. 

(circular.) 

Draft  by  Hamilton. 

United  States,  29th  Sept.,  1792. 

Sir: 

Inclosed  you  will  find  the  copy  of  a  proclamation  which  I 
have  thought  proper  to  issue,  in  consequence  of  certain  irregular 
and  refractory  proceedings,  which  have  taken  place  in  particular 
parts  of  some  of  the  States,  contravening  the  laws  therein  men- 
tioned. 

I  feel  an  entire  confidence  that  the  weight  and  influence  of 
the  Executive  of  *  *  *  *  will  be  cheerfully  exerted  in  every 
proper  way,  to  further  the  objects  of  this  measure,  and  to  pro- 
mote on  every  occasion  a  due  obedience  to  the  constitutional 
laws  of  the  Union. 

With  respect,  I  am,  sir,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  SHORT. 

Newark,  New  Jersey,  October  1st,  1792. 

Sir: 

On  my  arrival  here,  upon  an  excursion  of  a  few  days,  I  find 
the  intelligence  of  a  suspension  of  the  king  of  France,  and  of  a 
new  revolution  in  that  country.  I  take  it  for  granted,  that,  after 
such  an  event,  no  further  payments  will  have  been  made  to 
France.  It  is  now  impossible  to  calculate  any  thing  concerning 
the  affairs  of  that  country  ;  and,  of  course,  the  validity,  as  well  as 
the  usefulness  to  itself,  of  future  reimbursements,  would  be  ques- 
tionable. This  letter  serves  for  the  present  barely  to  convey 
this  idea. 


iET.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  319 


HAMILTON  TO  SHORT. 
Treasury  Department,  Philadelphia,  October  16th,  1792. 

Sir: 

There  being  a  vessel  in  port  ready  to  sail  for  Amsterdam,  I 
take  the  opportunity  to  inclose  you  triplicates  of  my  letters  of 
the  13th  ultimo,  and  1st  instant,  and  to  note  to  you  that  I  have 
directed  the  Treasurer  to  draw  upon  our  Commissioners  at  Am- 
sterdam for  one  hundred  thousand  guilders,  in  addition  to  the 
sums  mentioned  in  my  letter  of  the  25th  of  July. 

This  I  have  done  in  consequence  of  a  persuasion  that  the  late 
events  in  France  will  have  interrupted  payments  to  that  country. 
I  shall,  however,  forbear  further  drafts,  till  I  receive  further 
advices. 

I  also  inclose  a  letter  to  our  Minister  in  France,  which  I  re- 
quest you  to  forward  to  him. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

October  31, 1792. 
The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  presents  his  respects  to  the 
President  of  the  United  States,  incloses  the  arrangement  for  re- 
trospective compensations  to  officers  of  the  revenue,  which, 
agreeably  to  the  intimation  of  the  President,  has  been  retained. 
Mr.  Hamilton  will  wait  on  the  President  between  twelve  and 
one,  to  give  the  explanations  desired. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 


Treasury  Department,  Oct.  31,  1792. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  has  the  honor  respectfully  to 
communicate  to  the  President  an  authenticated  copy  of  the  Con- 


320  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  L^t.  35. 

tract  for  the  last  loan  made  in  Holland,  for  three  millions  of 
florins,  bearing  date  the  9th  of  August,  1792,  at  a  rate  of  four 
per  cent,  interest,  of  which  contract  a  ratification  of  the  Presi- 
dent, as  heretofore,  is  required. 


HAMILTON  TO  SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  November  5th,  1792. 

Sir: 

The  last  letter  which  I  have  had  the  pleasure  of  receiving  from 
you,  is  dated  the  6th  of  August.  By  letters  from  Mr.  Morris  to 
the  Secretary  of  State,  down  to  the  16th  of  that  month,  it  ap- 
peared that  he  had,  on  the  6th,  ordered  a  payment  to  the  French 
Treasury,  of  one  million  six  hundred  and  twenty-five  thousand 
B.  florins.  But  nothing  is  said  which  can  enlighten  me  as  to  his 
opinion  whether  the  last  change  in  the  affairs  of  France,  namely 
the  suspension  of  the  king,  ought  to  suspend  further  payments 
on  account  of  the  United  States  to  the  government  of  that  coun- 
try. Hence,  though  I  entertain  a  persuasion,  as  mentioned  in 
my  letter  of  the  18th  of  October,  a  fourth  copy  of  which  is 
inclosed,  that  no  further  payments  after  that  event  will  have 
been  deemed  proper,  and,  consequently,  that  a  considerable  sum 
of  money  will  have  been  left  undisposed  of  in  the  hands  of  our 
commissioners,  yet  the  want  of  some  certain  indication  on  that 
point  is  a  cause  of  perplexity  to  me. 

The  dispositions  heretofore  announced,  contemplated  the  pay- 
ment of  interest  on  the  foreign  debt  to  individuals,  only  up  to 
the  end  of  the  present  year,  out  of  funds  accruing  in  Europe, 
and  render  it  possible  that  all  others  might  be  applied  in  pay- 
ments to  France.  Yet,  under  present  circumstances,  to  add,  by 
remittances  from  this  country,  to  the  considerable  funds,  which 
probably  are  already  on  hand  there  unemployed,  and  a  part  of 
which  has  been  so  long  in  that  situation,  would  be  too  disadvan- 
tageous to  the  United  States. 

Upon  the  whole,  I  elect  to  forbear  till  further  advices,  any 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  321 

remittances  from  hence,  considering  that  on  any  emergency  you 
will  be  able  to  procure  either  a  temporary  or  permanent  loan 
equal  to  the  demand.  On  the  1st  of  January,  1793,  there  will 
be  due  in  Holland  120,000  florins  for  interest;  on  the  1st  of 
February  230,000  for  interest  and  100,000  for  premium,  on  the 
1st  of  March  125,000  for  interest,  on  the  first  of  June  470,000 
for  interest,  and  100,000  for  the  first  instalment  of  the  5,000,000 
loan. 

For  facing  these  engagements  it  appears  advisable  that  you 
endeavor  to  contract  a  loan  for  2,000,000  of  florins.  In  the 
present  state  of  French  affairs  it  is  proper  to  postpone  any  further 
borrowing  with  a  view  to  reimbursements  there. 

Should  it  appear,  as  I  expect  from  your  future  advices,  that 
there  will  remain  moneys  unapplied  and  subject  to  dispositions 
from  hence,  I  shall  take  care  so  to  regulate  the  drafts  which  may 
be  made  as  to  leave  at  your  disposal  at  least  a  sufficient  sum  for 
paying  the  interest  in  January  and  February,  so  as  to  afford  time 
for  such  further  operations  as  may  be  requisite. 

I  am  now  anxious,  as  soon  as  possible,  to  adopt  a  regular 
plan  for  paying  the  interest  on  our  foreign  debt  by  remittances 
from  this  country.  On  fuJl  reflection  I  have  concluded  that  the 
doing  of  it  by  means  of  bills  of  exchange  is  preferable  to  any 
other  mode.  But  for  this  purpose  some  auxiliary  arrangement 
is  necessary.  Bills  are  not  always  to  be  had  at  the  moment  they 
are  wanted.  If  I  am  to  depend  wholly  on  a  casual  supply  I  shall 
often  be  obliged  to  force  the  market  or  remit  specie.  To  avoid 
being  pressed  at  any  time  I  have  conceived  that  it  would  be 
eligible  to  adopt  the  following  plan :  To  stipulate  with  some  com- 
petent house  for  a  contingent  credit,  equal  to  the  sums  payable  for 
interest  at  the  several  periods ;  that  is,  the  house  to  be  obliged  to 
furnish  the  sums  when  due,  if  required  so  to  do,  for  a  certain 
term  of  credit,  say  six  months,  upon  the  conditions  of  receiving, 
absolutely,  a  small  premium,  whether  the  money  be  called  for  or 
not,  with  a  certain  rate  of  interest  if  called  for  on  the  sum 
actually  advanced,  from  the  time  of  its  being  advanced  to  the 
time  of  its  reimbursement. 

Suppose  the  contract  were  made  and  the  premium  stipulated 
d  21 


322  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

one-half  per  cent.,  the  rate  of  interest  five  per  cent.,  the  opera- 
tion of  the  plan  would  be  as  follows :  On  the  first  of  January 
next  there  is  a  sum  of  120,000  florins  payable  on  account  of  in- 
terest. It  would  be  at  my  option  to  remit  the  sum  at  the  period 
or  not.  If  I  remitted  it,  the  contractor  would  then  be  entitled 
only  to  one-half  per  cent,  on  the  120,000  florins.  If  I  remitted 
no  part  of  it,  he  would  be  obliged  to  advance  the  money  at  the 
time  it  became  due,  and  would  be  entitled  to  one-half  per  cent, 
by  way  of  premium,  and  at  the  rate  of  five  per  cent,  per  annum 
on  the  120,000  florins  from  the  time  it  was  advanced  to  the  time 
it  was  reimbursed,  the  term  of  reimbursement  not  to  exceed  six 
months.  If  I  remitted  a  part,  but  not  the  whole,  he  would  be 
obliged  to  advance  the  residue,  and  would  be  entitled  to  one-half 
per  cent,  premium  on  the  entire  sum,  say  120,000  florins,  and  at 
the  rate  of  five  per  cent,  per  annum,  as  before,  on  the  sum  actual- 
ly advanced,  as  that  should  happen  to  be.  And  so  from  period 
to  period  through  the  year. 

I  have  supposed  that  the  rate  of  premium  and  interest  which 
have  been  mentioned  would  obtain  the  credit  desired.  And  I 
will  thank  yoa,  if  it  can  be  done,  to  effect  the  arrangement  to 
begin  after  the  1st  of  June  next.  I  should  not  wish  it,  in  the 
first  instance,  to  extend  beyond  a  year.  Offers  of  a  similar  credit 
have  been  intimated  to  me  from  London,  but  as  the  payments 
are  to  be  made  from  Amsterdam,  I  deem  it  preferable  to  simpli- 
fy the  business  by  a  direct  operation. 

I  shall  endeavor  to  engage  the  Bank  of  the  United  States  to 
undertake  the  payment  of  our  foreign  interest,  combining  it 
with  a  plan  for  keeping  our  foreign  exchange  within  certain  deter- 
minate limits ;  a  measure  which  will  unite  a  moderate  profit  to  the 
bank,  with  the  advantage  to  trade  of  a  steady  course  of  exchange, 
and  to  the  government  of  a  convenient  and  economical  mode  of 
remitting  its  foreign  interest.  But  some  little  time  will  be  requi- 
site to  mature  men's  ideas  on  the  subject. 


;Et.  35.]  cabinet    papers.  323 

speech  of  washington  of  november  6,  1792. 

Draft  by  Hamilton. 

It  is  an  abatement  of  the  satisfaction  with  which  I  meet  you, 
on  the  present  occasion,  that  in  felicitating  you  on  the  continu- 
ance of  the  national  prosperity  generally,  I  am  not  able  to  add 
to  it  information  that  the  Indian  hostilities,  which  have  for  some 
time  distressed  our  northwestern  frontier,  have  terminated. 

You  will  doubtless  learn  with  as  much  concern  as  I  commu- 
nicate it,  that  reiterated  endeavors  to  effect  a  pacification  have 
hitherto  issued  only  in  new  and  outrageous  proofs  of  persevering 
hostility  on  the  part  of  the  tribes  with  whom  we  are  in  contest. 
An  earnest  desire  to  procure  tranquillity  to  the  frontier,  to  stop 
the  further  effusion  of  blood,  to  arrest  the  progress  of  expense, 
to  promote  the  prevalent  wish  of  the  country  for  peace,  have  led 
to  strenuous  efforts,  through  various  channels,  to  effect  that  de- 
sirable end,  in  which  neither  my  own  calculations  of  the  event, 
nor  my  scruples  which  may  have  occurred  concerning  the  dig- 
nity of  government,  have  been  permitted  to  outweigh  the  im- 
portant considerations  that  have  been  mentioned. 

A  detail  of  the  measures  which  have  been  adopted,  will  be 
laid  before  you,  from  which  I  persuade  myself  it  will  appear  to 
you,  that  means  as  proper  and  as  efficacious  as  could  have  been 
devised,  have  been  employed.  The  issue  indeed  of  some  of  them 
is  yet  depending,  but  while  a  favorable  one  is  not  to  be  despaired 
of,  every  antecedent  and  collateral  circumstance  discourages  an 
expectation  of  it. 

In  the  course  of  these  attempts,  some  valuable  citizens  have 
fallen  victims  to  their  zeal  for  the  public  service.  A  sanction 
hitherto  respected  even  among  savages,  has  not  been  sufficient  to 
protect  from  slaughter  the  messengers  of  peace.  It  will,  I  pre- 
sume, be  duly  considered  whether  the  occasion  does  not  call  for 
an  exercise  of  liberality  towards  the  families  of  the  deceased. 

It  must  add  to  your  concern  to  know  that  in  addition  to  the 
continuation  of  hostile  appearances  among  the  tribes  north  of  the 


324  HAMILTON'S     WORKS.  [JKt.  35. 

Ohio,  some  threatening  symptoms  have  lately  been  revived 
among  some  of  those  south  of  it.  According  to  the  last  accounts, 
an  attack  npon  the  settlements  within  the  territory  of  the  United 
States,  was  meditated  on  the  part  of 

Further  evidence,  however,  is  necessary  to  ascertain  the 
reality  and  extent  of  the  evils ;  and  in  the  mean  time  defensive 
precautions  only  have  been  permitted. 

It  is  not  understood  that  any  breach  of  treaty  or  aggression 
on  the  part  of  the  United  States  or  citizens  is  even  alleged,  as  a 
pretext  for  the  spirit  of  hostility  in  this  quarter.  Other  causes 
for  it  are  indicated,  which  it  would  be  premature  to  particularize. 

I  have  reason  to  believe  that  every  practicable  exertion  has 
been  made  to  be  prepared  for  the  alternative  of  a  continuance  of  the 
war  in  pursuance  of  the  provisions  made  by  law.  A  large  pro- 
portion of  the  troops  authorized  to  be  raised  have  been  recruited, 
but  the  number  is  still  incomplete.  A  particular  statement  from 
the  prorjer  department  on  this  subject,  and  in  relation  to  some 
other  points  which  have  been  suggested,  will  afford  more  precise 
information  as  a  guide  to  the  legislative  deliberations,  and  among 
other  things  will  enable  Congress  to  judge  whether  some  addi- 
tional stimulus  to  the  recruiting  service  may  not  be  advisable. 

In  looking  forward  to  the  future  expense  of  the  operations 
which  may  be  necessary,  I  derive  consolation  from  the  informa- 
tion I  receive,  that,  as  far  as  the  product  of  the  revenues  for  the 
present  year  is  known  at  the  Treasury,  there  is  a  strong  prospect 
that  no  additional  burdens  on  the  community  will  be  requisite 
for  the  supplies  of  the  ensuing  year.  This,  however,  will  be 
better  ascertained  in  the  course  of  the  present  session ;  and  it  is 
proper  to  add,  that  the  information  proceeds  upon  the  supposi- 
tion of  no  material  extension  of  the  spirit  of  hostility. 

I  cannot  dismiss  the  subject  of  Indian  affairs  without  recalling 
to  your  attention  the  necessity  of  more  adequate  provision  for 
giving  energy  to  the  laws  throughout  our  interior  frontiers,  so  as 
effectually  to  restrain  depredations  upon  the  Indians,  without 
which  every  pacific  system  must  prove  abortive ;  and  also  for 
enabling  the  employment  of  qualified  persons  to  reside  as  agents 
among  the  Indians,  an  expedient  of  material  importance  in  the 
successful  management  of  Indian  affairs. 


Mt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  325 

If  some  efficacious  plan  could  be  devised  for  carrying  on  trade 
with  the  Indians,  upon  a  scale  adequate  to  their  wants,  and  under 
regulations  calculated  to  protect  them  from  extortion  and  impo- 
sition, it  would  prove  hereafter  a  powerful  mean  of  preserving 
peace  and  a  good  understanding  with  them. 

The  prosperous  state  of  our  revenue  has  been  intimated. 
This  would  be  still  more  the  case,  were  it  not  for  the  impedi- 
ments which  in  some  places  continue  to  embarrass  the  collection 
of  the  duties  on  home-made  spirits.  These  impediments  have 
lessened,  and  are  lessening,  as  to  local  extent ;  and  as  applied  to 
the  community  at  large,  the  spirit  of  acquiescence  in  the  law 
appears  to  be  progressive. 

But  symptoms  of  an  increasing  opposition  having  recently 
manifested  themselves  in  certain  quarters,  particularly  in  one 
where  the  enjojmient  of  immediate  benefits  from  the  common 
contributions  of  the  country  was  to  have  been  expected  to  fortify 
the  general  sense  of  respect  and  duty  towards  the  government 
and  its  laws  and  the  disposition  to  share  in  the  public  burdens, — 
I  thought  a  special  interposition  on  my  part  had  become  proper 
and  advisable ;  and  under  this  impression  I  have  issued  a  procla- 
mation. 

Measures  have  also  been  begun  for  the  prosecution  of  offend- 
ers ;  and  Congress  may  be  assured  that  nothing  within  constitu- 
tional and  legal  limits  which  may  depend  on  me,  shall  be  wanting 
to  assert  and  maintain  the  just  authority  of  the  laws.  In  fulfil- 
ling this  trust,  I  shall  count  entirely  upon  the  full  co-operation 
of  the  other  departments  of  government,  and  upon  the  zealous 
support  of  all  good  citizens. 

I  cannot  forbear  to  bring  again  into  the  view  of  the  legisla- 
ture the  expediency  of  a  revision  of  the  judiciary  system.  A 
representation  from  the  judges  of  the  Supreme  Court,  which  will 
be  laid  before  you,  points  out  some  of  the  inconveniences  that 
are  experienced.  In  the  course  of  the  administration  of  the  laws, 
considerations  arise  out  of  the  structure  of  that  system  which 
tend  to  impede  their  execution.  As  connected  with  this  subject, 
some  provisions  respecting  the  taking  of  bail  upon  processes  out 
of  the  courts  of  the  United  States,  and  a  supplementary  definition 


326  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

of  offences  against  the  Constitution  and  laws,  and  of  punishment 
for  such  offences,  are  presumed  to  merit  particular  attention. 

The  interests  of  the  nation,  when  well  understood,  will  be 
found  to  coincide  with  their  moral  duties.  Among  these,  it  is 
an  important  one  to  cultivate  peace  and  friendship  with  our 
neighbors.  To  do  this,  we  should  make  provision  for  rendering 
the  justice  we  must  sometimes  require  from  them.  I  recom- 
mend therefore  to  your  consideration,  whether  the  laws  of  the 
Union  should  not  be  extended  to  restrain  our  citizens  from  com- 
mitting acts  of  violence  within  the  territories  of  other  nations, 
which  would  be  punished  were  they  committed  within  our  own. 
And  in  general,  the  maintenance  of  a  friendly  intercourse  with 
foreign  nations  will  be  presented  to  your  attention  by  the  expira- 
tion of  the  laws  for  that  purpose,  which  takes  place,  if  not  re- 
newed, at  the  close  of  the  present  session. 

In  execution  of  the  authority  given  by  the  legislature,  meas- 
ures have  been  taken  for  engaging  some  artists  from  abroad  to 
aid  in  the  establishment  of  our  mint ;  others  have  been  employed 
at  home.  Provision  has  been  made  of  the  requisite  buildings, 
and  these  are  now  putting  into  proper  condition  for  the  purposes 
of  the  establishment.  There  has  been  also  a  small  beginning  in 
the  coinage  of  half  dollars  and  cents;  the  want  of  small  coins  in 
circulation  calling  the  first  attention  to  them. 

The  regulation  of  foreign  coins,  in  correspondency  with  the 
principles  of  our  national  coinage,  will,  I  doubt  not,  be  resumed 
and  completed,  being  a  matter  essential  to  the  due  operation  of 
the  system,  and  to  order  in  our  pecuniary  concerns. 

It  is  represented  that  the  regulations  contained  in  the  law 
which  establishes  the  post-office,  operate  in  experiment  against 
the  transmission  of  newspapers  to  different  parts  of  the  country. 
Should  this,  upon  due  inquiry,  be  found  to  be  the  fact,  the  legis- 
lative wisdom  will,  doubtless,  apply  a  remedy,  under  a  full  con- 
viction of  the  great  importance  of  facilitating  the  circulation  of 
political  intelligence  and  information. 

Information  has  been  received  of  the  adoption  of  a  constitu- 
tion for  the  State  of  Kentuckv.  An  event  so  interesting  to  the 
happiness  of  the  part  of  the  nation  to  which  it  relates,  cannot  but 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  327 

make  a  correspondent  impression.  The  commnnications  con- 
cerning it  will  be  laid  before  yon. 

It  is  proper  likewise  to  inform  yon,  that,  since  my  last  com- 
munication on  the  subject,  in  further  execution  of  the  acts  seve- 
rally making  provision  for  the  public  debt,  and  for  the  reduction 
thereof,  three  new  loans  have  been  effected,  one  for  3,000,000  of 
florins  at  Antwerp,   at  four  and  a  half  per  cent,  and  per 

cent,  charges,  and  two  others,  each  for  3,000,000  of  florins,  at 
Amsterdam,    at  four  per   cent.,    and  per   cent,  charges. 

Among  the  objects  to  which  these  funds  have  been  directed  to 
be  applied,  the  payment  of  the  debts  due  to  certain  foreign  offi- 
cers, according  to  the  provision  made  for  that  purpose  during 
the  last  session,  is  included. 

House  of  Representatives : 

I  entertain  a  strong  hope  that  the  state  of  the  national 
finances  is  now  sufficiently  matured  to  enable  you  to  enter  upon 
systematic  and  effectual  arrangements  for  the  regular  redemption 
and  discharge  of  the  public  debt,  according  to  the  right  which 
has  been  reserved  to  the  government.  No  measure  can  be  re- 
garded as  more  desirable,  whether  viewed  with  an  eye  to  its  in- 
trinsic importance,  or  to  the  general  sentiment  and  wish  of  the 
nation. 

Provision  likewise  is  requisite  for  the  reimbursement  of  the 
loan  which  has  been  made  of  the  Bank  of  the  United  States, 
pursuant  to  section  of  the  act  by  which  it  is  incorporated. 

In  fulfilling  the  public  stipulations  in  this  particular,  a  valuable 
saving  may,  it  is  expected,  be  made. 

Appropriations  for  the  service  of  the  ensuing  year,  and  for 
such  extraordinaries  as  may  have  occurred,  will  demand,  and  I 
doubt  not,  will  engage  your  early  attention. 

Senate  and  House  of  Representatives : 

I  content  myself  with  recalling  your  attention  generally,  to  such 
objects  suggested  in  my  former  communications  as  have  not  yet 
been  finally  acted  upon,  and  as  are  not  previously  particularized. 

The  results  of  your  joint  deliberations  hitherto,  will,  I  trust, 


328  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

be  productive  of  solid  and  durable  advantages  to  our  constitu- 
ents, and  which,  by  conciliating  more  and  more  their  approba- 
tion, may  tend  to  strengthen  their  attachment  to  that  constitu- 
tion of  government  upon  which  depend,  under  Divine  Provi- 
dence, their  union,  safety,  and  prosperity. 

Still  further  to  secure  these  inestimable  ends,  there  is  nothing 
which  can  have  so  powerful  a  tendency  as  the  careful  cultivation 
of  harmony,  combined  with  a  due  regard  to  stability  in  the  pub- 
lic councils. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  November  19th,  1792. 

Sir: 

I  have  carefully  reflected  on  the  application  of  Mr.  Ternant 
for  an  additional  supply  of  money  for  the  use  of  the  colony  of 
St.  Domiugo,  on  account  of  the  debt  due  to  France,  which  I  re- 
gard more  and  more  as  presenting  a  subject  extremely  delicate 
and  embarrassing. 

Two  questions  arise :  first,  as  to  the  ability  of  the  United 
States  to  furnish  the  money,  which  is  stated  at  about  326,000 
dollars,  in  addition  to  the  sum  remaining  of  the  400,000  dollars 
some  time  since  promised ;  second,  as  to  the  propriety  of  doing 
it  on  political  considerations. 

With  regard  to  ability,  I  feel  little  doubt  that  it  will  be  in 
the  power  of  the  Treasury  to  furnish  the  sum  ;  yet,  circumstanced 
as  we  are,  with  the  possibility  of  more  extensive  demands  than 
at  present  exist,  for  exigencies  of  a  very  serious  nature,  I  think 
it  would  not  be  desirable  to  be  bound  by  a  positive  stipulation 
for  the  entire  amount. 

With  regard  to  the  propriety  of  the  measure,  on  political 
considerations,  more  serious  difficulties  occur. 

The  late  suspension  of  the  king,  which  is  officially  communi- 
cated, and  the  subsequent  abolition  of  royalty  by  the  con- 
vention, which  the  newspapers  announce  with   every  appear- 


jEt.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  329 

ance  of  authenticity,  essentially  change,  for  the  moment,  the 
condition  of  France. 

If  a  restoration  of  the  king  should  take  place,  I  am  of  opin- 
ion that  no  payment  which  might  be  made  in  the  interval  would 
be  deemed  regular  or  obligatory.  The  admission  of  it  to  our 
credit  would  consequently  be  considered  as  matter  of  discretion, 
according  to  the  opinion  entertained  of  its  merit  and  utility.  A 
payment  to  the  newly  constituted  power,  as  a  reimbursement,  in 
course,  or  in  any  manner  which  would  subject  it  to  be  used  in 
support  of  the  change,  would  doubtless  be  rejected. 

An  advance,  however,  to  supply  the  urgent  necessities  of  a 
part  of  the  French  empire,  struggling  under  the  misfortune  of 
an  insurrection,  of  the  nature  of  that  which  has  for  some  time 
distressed  the  colony  of  St.  Domingo,  and  now  exposed  to  the 
danger  of  total  ruin  by  famine,  is  of  a  different  complexion. 
Succors  furnished  in  such  a  situation,  under  due  limitations, 
would  be  so  clearly  an  act  of  humanity  and  friendship,  of  such 
evident  utility  to  the  French  empire,  that  no  future  government 
could  refuse  to  allow  a  credit  for  them  without  a  disregard  of 
moderation  and  equity.  But  the  claim  for  such  credit  would 
not  be  of  a  nature  to  be  regularly  and  of  course  valid ;  conse- 
quently would  be  liable  to  be  disputed. 

The  condition  in  which  the  colony  has  lately  placed  itself,  by 
espousing  the  last  change  which  has  been  made  m  France,  ope- 
rates as  a  serious  difficulty  in  the  case,  and  may  be  made  a 
ground  of  objection  to  any  aid  which  may  be  given  them. 

There  is  even  a  question  whether  there  be  now  any  organ  of 
the  French  nation  which  can  regularly  ask  the  succor,  whether 
the  commission  to  Mr.  Ternant  be  not  virtually  superseded. 

It  is  also  an  objection  (in  the  view  of  regularity  and  validity) 
to  the  supply  asked,  that  the  decree  of  the  National  Assembly, 
on  which  it  is  founded,  contemplated  a  negotiation  between  the 
executive  power  in  France  and  our  minister  there.  The  chan- 
nel has  not  been  pursued,  and  no  substitute  has  been  provided. 
The  business  wants  organization  in  every  sense. 

From  these  premises,  I  deduce  that  nothing  can  be  done 
without  risk  to  the  United  States;    that,  therefore,  as  little  as 


330  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 

possible  ought  to  be  clone ;  that  whatever  may  be  done,  should 
be  constantly  restricted  to  the  single  idea  of  preserving  the  colony 
from  destruction  by  famine ;  that,  in  all  communications  on  the 
subject,  care  should  be  taken  to  put  it  on  this  footing,  and  even 
to  avoid  the  explicit  recognition  of  any  regular  authority  in  any 
person. 

Under  these  cautions  and  restrictions  (but  not  otherwise),  I 
beg  leave  to  submit  it  as  my  opinion,  that  succors  ought  to  be 
granted,  notwithstanding  the  degree  of  risk  which  will  attend  it. 
That  they  should  be  effected  by  occasional  advances,  without 
previous  stipulation,  and  with  only  a  general  assurance  that  the 
United  States,  disposed  to  contribute  by  friendly  offices  to  the 
preservation  of  an  important  portion  of  the  French  empire,  and 
to  that  of  French  Algiers,  from  the  calamity  of  famine,  will  en- 
deavor, from  time  to  time,  as  far  as  circumstances  shall  permit, 
to  afford  means  of  sustenance. 

According  to  a  statement  of  Mr.  De  la  Foret,  the  provisions 
desired  to  be  shipped  in  the  course  of  November  would  amount 
to  83,000  dollars,  including  the  total  supply  of  fish  and  oil. 
Towards  this,  he  computes  the  application  of  50,000  dollars  out 
of  the  remainder  of  the  400,000  dollars  heretofore  promised, 
which  would  leave  a  deficiency  of  33,800  dollars.  This  sum,  or  in 
round  numbers  40,000  dollars,  can  be  engaged  to  be  furnished; 
and  in  December,  if  no  future  circumstances  forbid,  a  further 
sum  can  be  engaged  to  be  supplied,  payable  at  a  future  short 
period 

It  will  be  proper,  that  the  most  precise  measures  should  be 
taken  to  ascertain  from  time  to  time  the  investment  of  the 
moneys  supplied,  in  purchasing  and  forwarding  provisions  from 
this  country  to  the  colony  in  question. 

It  has  been  heretofore  understood  that  the  balance  of  the  sum 
some  time  since  stipulated  was  to  be  furnished,  which  according- 
ly has  been  and  is  doing. 

Engagements  for  supplies  have  been  entered  into,  upon  the 
basis  of  that  stipulation,  and  payments  to  as  great,  if  not  a  great- 
er amount,  are  becoming  due,  in  which  the  citizens  of  the  United 
States  are  materially  interested. 


^t.  35.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  331 

The  caution  which  is  deemed  necessary,  has  reference  not 
only  to  the  safety  of  the  United  States  in  a  pecuniary  aspect,  but 
to  the  consideration  of  avoiding  a  dangerous  commitment,  which 
may  ever  prove  a  source  of  misunderstanding  between  this 
country  and  the  future  government  of  the  French  nation. 

From  all  that  is  hitherto  known,  there  is  no  ground  to  con- 
clude that  the  governing  power,  by  the  last  advices,  will  be  of 
long  duration. 


HAMILTON  TO  SHOET. 
Treasury  Department,  Philadelphia,  Nov.  2G,  1792. 

Sir: 

Since  my  last  of  the  5th  instant,  a  triplicate  of  which  is  here 
inclosed,  I  have  received  yours  of  the  30th  of  August  last. 

I  have  only  time  to  inform  you  that  I  have  directed  the  sum 
of  1,250,000  florins  to  be  drawn  upon  our  commissioners  in  Am- 
sterdam immediately ;  which  will  leave  a  sum  in  their  hands 
sufficient  to  face  the  interest  and  other  payments  falling  due  up 
to  the  1st  of  March  next,  including  the  debt  due  to  Spain. 

This  arrangement  is  made  so  as  not  to  affect  the  sum  of 
1,625,000  florins,  which,  pursuant  to  Mr.  Morris's  stipulation 
with  the  French  treasury,  was  to  be  paid  in  France,  because  it 
appears  from  your  letter  that  it  was  still  possible  the  payment 
might  be  concluded.  This  possibility  will  therefore  govern  until 
I  receive  further  advice  on  the  subject.  But  should  the  payment 
eventually  be  stopped,  I  shall  also  draw  for  part,  if  not  the  whole 
of  the  sum,  from  hence. 


332  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  35. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Nov.  27,  1792. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  presents  his  respects  to  the 
President.  The  execution  of  the  process  by  the  marshal  himself 
is,  for  many  reasons,  so  important,  that  it  does  not  appear  possi- 
ble to  dispense  with  it.  If  there  should  be  any  failure  in  the 
deputy,  it  would  probably  furnish  a  topic  of  censure  and  a  source 
of  much  embarrassment.  The  impediment  in  point  of  health  is 
to  be  regretted,  but,  it  would  seem,  must  be  surmounted. 


HAMILTON  TO  JEFFERSON. 

Treasury  Department,  Dec.  26,  1792. 

Sir: 

I  beg  leave  to  suggest,  that  it  would  be  useful  for  the  consuls 
of  the  United  States  every  where  to  be  possessed  of  the  laws  of 
the  United  States  respecting  commerce  and  navigation ;  giving 
it  as  a  standing  instruction,  to  make  known,  in  the  best  manner 
possible,  in  the  ports  where  they  reside,  those  regulations  which 
are  necessary  to  be  complied  with  abroad  by  merchants,  and  the 
owners  and  masters  of  ships. 

Prohibitions  and  penalties  in  some  cases  exist,  as  in  the  10th 
and  13th  sections  of  the  act  concerning  the  duties  on  spirits  dis- 
tilled within  the  United  States,  an  ignorance  of  which  is  expe- 
rienced to  be  a  source  of  embarrassment,  and  in  some  instances 
of  expense  and  vexation,  to  foreign  merchants  and  navigators. 

It  would  also  be  of  use  in  the  operations  of  the  Treasury  if 
our  consuls  in  France  were  directed  to  transmit,  by  every  oppor- 
tunity, the  state  of  exchange  between  their  respective  places  of 
residence  and  London  and  Amsterdam,  and  the  current  difference 
between  specie  and  assi gnats.  This  has  reference  particularly 
to  the  execution  of  the  17th  section  of  the  act  entitled  "  An  act 


jEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  333 

for  raising  a  further  sum  of  money  for  the  protection  of  the 
frontiers." 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  very  respectfully,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  SHORT. 
Treasury  Department,  Philadelphia,  Dec.  31,  1792. 

Sir: 

Inclosed  is  a  duplicate  of  my  letter  of  the  26th  ultimo, 
mentioning,  among  other  matters,  that  Treasury  drafts  had  been 
directed  upon  the  Commissioners  in  Amsterdam,  to  the  amount 
of  1,250,000  guilders. 

It  will  be  proper  to  inform  you,  that  this  sum  has  been 
reduced  to  1,237,500  guilders,  to  be  drawn  in  lieu  of  the  sum 
first  mentioned;  and  that  a  farther  sum  of  24,750  guilders  has 
since  been  directed  to  be  drawn. 

I  have  received  your  letters  down  to  the  9th  of  October  inclu- 
sively ;  but  time  will  not  now  permit  me  to  enter  into  any  dis- 
cussion upon  the  contents. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

I    iladelphia,  Jan.  1, 1793. 

Dear  Sir  : 

After  reading  the  inclosed  letter,  return  it  to  me.  My  senti- 
ments on  the  general  principle  you  are  acquainted  with.  With 
the  one  handed  under  ihis  cover,  do  as  shall  seem  best  to  you  in 
the  case  before  us,  and  let  mo  know  the  result ;  or,  if  you  choose 
it,  I  am  ready  to  confer  further  with  you  on  the  subject. 

I  am  always  your  cincere  friend,  &c. 


334  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 


JEFFERSON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

1793. 

The  most  prominent  suspicion  excited  by  the  report  of  the 
Secretary  of  the  Treasury  of  January  3,  1793,  is,  that  the  funds 
raised  in  Europe,  and  which  ought  to  have  been  applied  to  the 
payment  of  our  debts  there,  in  order  to  stop  interest,  have  been 
drawn  over  to  this  country  and  lodged  in  the  bank,  to  extend 
the  special  items  and  increase  the  profits  of  that  institution. 

To  come  to  the  truth  of  this,  it  becomes  necessary  to  arrange 
the  articles  of  this  report  into  two  accounts,  viz. 

1.  An  account  of  funds  provided  in  Europe  for  which  the 
Treasury  is  to  be  debited,  while  it  is  to  be  credited  for  the  appli- 
cation of  these  funds  to  such  disbursements  as  they  were  by  law 
appropriated  to ;  the  balance  remaining  on  hand  there  must  still 
belong  to  the  same  purposes. 

1st  Account  reversed  with  the  U.  S.  of  America. 

By  disbursements  for  the  purposes  to  which 

the  loans  were  appropriated  by  law, 

viz.,  p.  2,  to  France    . 
For  other  foreign  loans, 
Commission,  &c, 
Postage  and  Advertising, 
Interest  to  Foreign  Officers, 
To  Spain, 


Balance  stated  to  be  in  the  hands  of  the 
Commissioners,  407,287,7 

Deficit  not  found  in  their  hands, 


810,083,116 

1,733,189 

19,172 

613  88 

105,000 

680,000 

12,621.091 

■5,098,920  76 

154,44 

282,467 

446.991,26 

7,545,912 

jEt.36.]  i  CABINET    PAPERS.  335 

With  the  U.  S.  of  America. 

By  dep't  of  State  for  Barbary  and  foreign  transn's   $528,746  00 
By  paid  to  T.,  for  St.  Domingo,  .         .         .       445,263  83 

By  paid  in  purchase  of  Public  Debt,        .        .  967.82165 


7,561,852  15 

Bal.  remaining  in  Bank  ought  to  be  $1,708,416  72, 
but  to  avoid  cavil  we  admit  the  $191,316  90 
rightly  drawn  from  Europe  into  the  hands  of 
the  Bank,  to  pay  certain  foreign  officers  in  Eu- 
rope as  by  contract ;  then  we  must  credit 
that  sum,  191,316  00 

The  balance  in  Bank  then  will  be,  $1,517,099  84 


3.3 

The  next  possible  deduction  which  could  be  made  from  this  bal- 
ance further  would  be  so  much  of  the  $967,821  65  paid  in 
purchase  of  the  public  debt  as  exceeds  the  surpluses  of  reve- 
nue applicable  to  that  purchase,  if  there  has  been  no  surplus 
at  all  therefrom $1,517,199  00 

We  must  deduct  the  whole, 967,821  00 


Which  would  leave  a  balance  in  the  Bank  still  of  549,276  14 

In  the  Bank  there  must  have  been  a  balance  of  $39,278  19  before  the  last 
draughts — matters  out  of  question — two  further  statements  are  requested. 

Statement. 

The  Treasury  debtor  in  Europe  to  nett  amount  of  moneys  bor- 
rowed in  Europe, $7,545,972  00 

To  loan  from  Bank  in  America, 2,000,000  00 

To  surpluses  of  revenue  applicable  to  public  debt, 

3d  Statement. 

To  nett  amount  of  moneys  borrowed  in  Europe,  .         .        .        .     7,545,912  00 
To  loan  from  Bank, 2,000,000  00 


9,545,912  00 


336  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.       •  [Mt.  36. 

By  paiements  to  France,         ....        $10,083,11609 
for  other  foreign  loans,  .         .         2,537,975  00 

$5,089,920  76 
By  balance  stated  to  be  in  hands  of  commissioners,     $164,544  00 
Deficit  there,  consequently  supposed  to  be  drawn 

into  bank, 2,282,477  24 

$2,446,991  26 

$7:545,991  25 

By  subscription  in  Bank, $2,000,000  00 

By  Department  of  State, $128,766  67 

By  paid  to  St.  Domingo, 445,263  83 

By  purchases  of  public  debt, 967,82165 

By  purchase  of  foreign  officers,  ....         191,31690      1,733,16905 

$3,733,169  05 

By  subscription  to  Bank, $2,000,000  00 

By  paiements  to  France,  .         .         .  $10,083,116  09 

for  other  foreign  loans,      ....  2,537,373  00     5,098,620  76 

By  Department  of  State, 128,766  76 

By  paid  to  St.  Domingo 445,263  83 

By  purchases  of  public  debt, .         967,621  65 

By  certain  foreign  officers, 191.31690 

Balance  in  hand  in  Europe  and  America,  (besides  surplus,)  .         713,822  19 

$9,545,712  00 

2.  An  account  of  the  funds  provided  in  America  for  the  ob- 
jects which  are  entered  in  this  report  or  may  be  brought  forward 
to  support  it,  which  are  to  be  debited  to  the  Treasury,  while  it  is 
credited  for  the  applications  of  them  to  the  purposes  to  which 
they  have  been  appropriated  by  law. 

The  two  following  accounts  are  raised  on  these  principles. 

To  nett  '  out  of  moneys  borrowed  in  Amsterdam  and  Ant- 
werp, 18,678,000  florins,  at  99-40,  7,545,912  dollars. 

Note.— We  have  here  admitted  that  the  whole  2,000,000  dollars  subscribed  to 
the  bank,  might  have  been  paid  out  of  the  funds  in  Europe ;  whereas,  in  truth, 
their  subscription  being  on  the  1st  January,  1792,  there  should  have  been  paid  on 
that  day  the  first  instalment  only  of  C00,0  dollars,  and  before  any  ot  ier  instal- 
ment became  due,  there  was  the  loan  of  2,000,000  from  the  bank  on  the  same  day, 


vEt.36.]  cabinet   papers.  337 

which  might  have  "been  applied  so  as  to  spare  the  European  fund,  there  would  then 
have  remained  1,500,000  more  in  Europe  to  pay  off  the  French  debt  and  stop  in- 
terest, instead  of  lying  dead  in  the  Bank ;  hut  waive  this  because  it  admits  some 
cavil. 

The  Treasury  for  receipts  and  debts  in  America  on  account. 

To  deficit  in  the  European  fund  as  per  contra,   ....        $.282,447  24 

To  loan  from  the  Bank, 2.000,000  00 

To  surpluses  revenue  applied  to  purchase  of  public  debt,  (suppose,)     967.821  65 


$3,250;268  89 

There  being  certainly  then  a  balance  of  549,278.19  dollars,  and  probably  much 

more,  for  510.000  dollars  were  made  in  its  favor  ;  why  then  were  they  made  1    But 

to  put  these  to  the  account  of  the  United  States  with  the  Bank,  from  which  we 

may  see  whether  the  state  of  the  accounts  were  such  as  to  require  this  payment. 

2.  A  statement  of  the  surpluses  of  revenue  which  actually  arose,  and  might  have 
been  applied  to  the  purchase  of  the  public  debt ;  the  amount  of  these  surpluses  are 
to  be  added  to  our  balance  against  the  Bank. 


HAMILTON"  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  January  24,  1793. 

Sir: 

As  the  law  appropriating  ten  thousand  dollars  for  the  pur- 
pose of  defraying  the  contingent  charges  of  government,  (though 
in  that  respect  not  very  precise  in  its  terms,)  seems  to  contem- 
plate the  rendering  an  account  from  time  to  time  of  the  dis- 
bursement of  that  sum,  I  have  the  honor  to  inclose  three  copies 
of  a  statement  to  the  end  of  the  year  1792,  in  order,  that  if  it  be 
judged  expedient,  one  may  be  sent  to  each  House  of  Congress. 


HAMILTON   TO   SHORT. 

* 

Treasury  Department,  February  1st,  1793* 

Sir: 

Since  my  last  letter  to  you,  dated  the  31st  of  December  last, 
of  which  a  duplicate  is  inclosed,  I  have  received  yours  of  the 
27th  of  October  and  2d  of  November. 
D  22 


338  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  36. 

It  was  not  intended  by  mine  of  the  28th  of  August,  that  the 
account  to  be  rendered  by  you,  should  extend  to  any  of  the  pay- 
ments made  by  the  Commissioners  on  account  of  the  debt  to 
France,  or  the  foreign  loans,  or  the  bills  drawn  from  hence ;  but 
merely  to  your  particular  transactions,  your  salary,  &c,  or  to 
any  moneys  which  may  have  been  drawn  from  the  Commission- 
ers, and  put  under  your  disposition  for  ulterior  expenditure. 

I  presume  a  duplicate  of  the  accounts  transmitted  by  you  to 
the  Secretary  of  State,  will  answer  the  purpose. 

With  respectful  consideration,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  SHOET. 
(private.) 

Philadelphia,  February  5th,  1793. 

Sir: 

The  spirit  of  party  has  grown  to  maturity  sooner  in  this 
country  than  perhaps  was  to  have  been  counted  upon.  You 
will  see  a  specimen  of  it  in  the  inclosed  speech  of  Mr.  Giles,  a 
member  from  Virginia.  The  House  of  Eepresentatives  adopted 
the  resolutions  proposed  by  him,  nemine  contradicente.  The  ob- 
ject, with  a  majority,  was  to  confound  the  attempt,  by  giving  a 
free  course  to  investigation. 

I  send  you,  also,  a  printed  copy  of  a  letter  from  me  to  the 
House  of  Eepresentatives,  of  yesterday's  date,  being  the  first  part 
of  an  answer  to  those  resolutions.  The  statements  referred  to  in 
it  could  not  yet  be  printed ;  but  lest  the  thing  should  pass  the 
Atlantic,  and  be  made  an  ill  use  of,  to  the  prejudice  of  our 
country,  I  send  you  the  antidote,  to  be  employed  or  not,  as  you 
may  see  occasion. 

An  investigation  intended  to  prejudice  me  is  begun,  with  re- 
spect to  the  circumstances  attending  the  last  payment  on  account 
of  the  French  debt,  which,  in  its  progress,  may  draw  your  con- 


jEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  339 

duct  into  question.  I  think,  however,  you  need  be  under  no 
anxiety  for  the  result.  Your  hesitations,  at  a  certain  stage,  were 
so  natural,  and  your  reasons  so  weighty  for  them,  that  they  will 
give  little  handle  against  you,  besides  the  coincidence  in  opinion 
here  about  the  expediency  of  a  suspension  of  payment.  The 
popular  tide  in  this  country  is  strong  in  favor  of  the  last  revolu- 
tion in  France ;  and  there  are  many  who  go,  of  course,  with  that 
tide,  and  endeavor  always  to  turn  it  to  account.  For  my  own 
part,  I  content  myself  with  praying  most  sincerely  that  it  may 
issue  in  the  real  advantage  and  happiness  of  the  nation. 


CABINET  OPINION. 

February  25th,  1793. 

The  President  desires  the  opinions  of  the  heads  of  the  three 
Departments  and  of  the  Attorney-General  on  the  following  ques- 
tions, to  wit : 

Mr.  Ternant  having  applied  for  money  equivalent  to  three 
millions  of  livres,  to  be  furnished  on  account  of  our  debt  to 
France,  at  the  request  of  the  Executive  of  that  country,  which 
sum  is  to  be  laid  out  in  provisions  within  the  United  States,  to 
be  sent  to  France ;  shall  the  money  be  furnished  ? 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  stated  it  as  his  opinion,  that 
making  liberal  allowance  for  the  depreciation  of  assignats  (no 
rule  of  liquidation  having  been  yet  fixed),  a  sum  of  about 
318,000  dollars  may  not  exceed  the  arrearages  equitably  due  to 
France  to  the  end  of  1792,  and  that  the  whole  sum  asked  for 
may  be  furnished  within  periods  capable  of  answering  the 
purpose  of  Mr.  Ternant's  application,  without  a  derangement  of 
the  Treasury. 

Thereupon  the  Secretaries  of  State  and  War  and  the  Attor- 
ney-General are  of  opinion  that  the  whole  sum  asked  for  by  Mr. 
Ternant  ought  to  be  furnished :  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  is 


340  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

of  opinion  that  the  supply  ought  not  to  exceed  the  above-men- 
tioned sum  of  318,000  dollars. 

Th.  Jefferson, 
Alexander  Hamilton, 
H.  Knox, 
Edm.  Kandolph, 


CABINET  OPINION. 

February  25,  1793. 

The  President  having  required  the  attendance  of  the  heads 
of  the  three  Departments  and  of  the  Attorney-General  at  his 
house,  on  Monday,  the  25th  February,  1793,  the  following  ques- 
tions were  proposed  and  answers  given  : 

The  Governor  of  Canada  having  refused  to  let  us  obtain  pro- 
visions from  that  province,  or  to  pass  them  along  the  water  com- 
munication to  the  place  of  treaty  with  the  Indians,  and  the 
Indians  having  refused  to  let  them  pass  peaceably  along  what 
they  call  the  Bloody  Path,  the  Governor  of  Canada  at  the  same 
time  proposing  to  furnish  the  whole  provisions  necessary — ought 
the  treaty  to  proceed? 

Answer,  unanimously — It  ought  to  proceed. 
Have  the  Executive,  or  the  Executive  and  Senate  together, 
authority  to  relinquish  to  the  Indians  the  right  of  soil  of  any 
part  of  the  lands  north  of  the  Ohio,  which  has  been  validly  ob- 
tained by  former  treaties  ? 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  Secretary  of  War,  and  At- 
torney-General, are  of  opinion  that  the  Executive  and  Senate 
have  such  authority;  provided  that  no  grants  or  reserves  to 
States  be  thereby  infringed.  The  Secretary  of  State  is  of  opin- 
ion vhey  have  no  such  authority  to  relinquish. 

Will  it  be  expedient  to  make  such  relinquishment,  if  essential 
to  peace,  provided  it  do  not  include  any  lands  sold  or  reserved 
for  special  purposes  (the  reservations  for  trading  places  excepted)? 


jE-r.ae.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  341 

The  Secretary  of  State  is  of  opinion  that  the  Executive  and 
Senate  have  authority  to  stipulate  with  the  Indians,  and  that  if 
essential  to  peace  it  will  be  expedient  to  stipulate  that  we  will 
not  settle  any  lands  between  those  already  sold  or  reserved  for 
special  purposes  and  the  lines  heretofore  validly  established  with 
the  Indians. 

Whether  the  Senate  shall  be  previously  consulted  on  this 
point  ? 

The  opinion  unanimously  is,  that  it  will  be  better  not  to  con- 
sult them  previously. 

Th.  Jefferson, 
A.  Hamilton, 
Henry  Knox, 
Edmund  Randolph. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON  AND   KNOX. 

February  27,  1793. 

Sir: 

As  the  day  is  near  at  hand  when  the  President  elect  is  to 
take  the  oath  of  qualification,  and  no  mode  is  pointed  out  by  the 
Constitution  or  by  law,  I  could  wish  that  you,  Mr.  Jefferson 
{Gen.  Knox  or  Col.  Hamilton),  and  Mr.  Randolph,  could  meet 
to-morrow  morning,  at  any  place  which  you  may  fix  between 
yourselves,  and  communicate  to  me  the  result  of  your  opinions 
as  to  time,  place,  and  manner  of  qualification. 

George  Washington. 

P.  S.  Mr.  Jefferson  and  Mr.  Randolph  have  suggested  the 
idea  of  meeting  at  the  War  Office,  at  nine  o1  clock  to-morrow 
morning.  If  this  is  convenient  and  agreeable  to  you,  you  will  be 
there  accordingly ;  if  otherwise,  you  will  be  so  good  as  to  let  me 
know. 


342  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  36. 


CABINET  OPINION. 

Feb.  27, 1793. 
If  the  qualification  is  to  be  in  private,  T.  J.,  A.  H.,  H.  K., 
and  E.  E.  are  of  opinion  that  Mr.  Cushing  should  administer  the 
oath  to  the  President  at  his  own  house,  where  such  officers,  or 
others,  as  he  may  notify,  will  attend.  T.  J.  and  A  H.  think  that 
it  ought  to  be  in  private. 


CABINET  OPINION. 

March  1,  1793. 
It  is  our  opinion, 

1.  That  the  President  ought  to  take  the  oath  in  public. 

2.  That  the  time  be  on  Monday  next,  at  twelve  o'clock  in  the 
forenoon. 

3.  That  the  place  be  the  Senate  chamber. 

4.  That  the  Marshal  of  the  district  inform  the  Yice-President, 
that  the  Senate  chamber,  being  the  usual  place  of  the  President's 
public  acts,  is  supposed  to  be  the  best  place  for  taking  the  oath, 
and  that  it  is  wished  that  the  chamber  be  open. 

5.  That  it  may  be  informally  notified  to  the  Yice-President, 
Governor,  and  Foreign  Ministers,  that  the  oath  is  to  be  taken  at 
the  time  and  place  above  mentioned. 

6.  That  Mr.  Cushing  be  requested  to  attend,  and  administer 
the  oath. 

7.  That  the  President  go  without  form,  attended  by  such 

gentlemen  as  he  may  choose,  and  return  without  form,  except 

that  he  be  preceded  by  the  Marshal. 

H.  Knox. 

Edm.  Kandolph. 

My  opinion  given  yesterday  was  founded  upon  prudential 
considerations  of  the  moment ;  though  I  think  it  right,  in  the 
abstract,  to  give  publicity  to  the  act  in  question.     If  this  is  to  be 


;Et.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  443 

done  on  the  present  occasion,  I  see  no  objection  to  the  above 

form.    I  am  not,  however,  satisfied  that  prudential  considerations 

are  not  equally  balanced. 

A.  Hamilton. 


cabinet  OPINION. 

March  2,  1793. 

The  President  communicated  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  the 
Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  the  Secretary  of  War,  and  the  Attor- 
ney-General of  the  United  States,  a  letter  from  William  S.  Smith, 
Esq.,  of  the  28th  of  February  past,  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treas- 
ury, with  sundry  papers — No.  1,  2,  and  3  and  4  relating  to  a 
negotiation  for  changing  the  form  of  the  debt  to  France ;  and 
required  their  opinion  what  answer  should  be  returned  to  the 
application. 

The  opinion  unanimously  is,  that  the  Secretary  of  the  Treas- 
ury shall  inform  Mr.  Smith  that  the  government  of  the  United 
States  have  made  engaged  payments  to  France  to  the  extent 
which  is  at  present  consistent  with  their  arrangements ;  and  do 
not  judge  it  advisable  to  take  any  measures  on  the  subject  of  his 

application. 

Th.  Jefferson. 

Alex.  Hamilton. 

H.  Knox. 

Edm.  Eandolph. 


CABINET  OPINION. 


March  10,  1793. 

At  a  meeting  of  the  heads  of  departments  and  the  Attorney- 
General  at  the  President's,  on  the  10th  day  of  March,  1793, 

The  intelligence  from  Kentucky  and  the  territory  northwest 
of  the  Ohio  was  laid  before  them ;  whereupon  it  was  advised, 

1.  That  a  proclamation  issue  against  the  expeditions  under- 


344  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

stood  to  be  prepared  in  Kentucky  for  the  invasion  of  the  Spanish 
dominions. 

2.  That  a  representation  be  made  to  the  Governor  of  Ken- 
tucky, upon  the  subject  of  his  conduct,  and  giving  information, 
under  proper  guards,  of  the  steps  which  have  been  taken  by 
government  as  to  the  Mississippi. 

3.  That  a  representation  be  also  made  to  Congress ;  and 

4.  That  General  "Wayne  be  instructed  to  post,  if  compatible 
with  his  other  operations,  a  body  of  troops  at  Massae,  in  order  to 
intercept  by  force,  if  necessary,  any  body  of  men  which  may 
descend  the  river  for  the  purpose  of  the  invasion  aforesaid. 
From  this  fourth  opinion  the  Secretary  of  State  dissents. 

Alex.  Hamilton. 
Edm.  Kandolph. 
H.  Knox. 
¥m.  Bradford. 


RANDOLPH  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  March.  11th,  1793. 

Sir: 

The  minutes  which  were  made  yesterday,  at  the  conference 
in  your  room,  did  not  permit  an  insertion  of  the  reasons  upon 
which  my  dissent  from  the  fourth  proposition  was  founded.  As 
I  shall  always  contend  for  what  I  conceive  to  be  the  consti- 
tutional and  legal  powers  of  the  government,  so  I  beg  leave  to 
request,  upon  this  truly  important  subject,  that  you  will  suf- 
fer this  letter  to  be  filed  away,  with  the  paper  containing  the 
opinions. 

My  reasons  against  the  instruction,  advised  to  be  given  to 
General  Wajme,  to  post  a  body  of  regular  troops  at  Massac,  and 
by  force,  if  necessary,  to  prevent  the  party  of  Kentucky  citi- 
zens who  are  supposed  to  meditate  an  invasion  of  the  Spanish 
dominions,  from  proceeding,  are  the  following  : 

1.  Those  troops  were  raised,  and  destined  by  law,  exclusively 
for  other  purposes. 


Mt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  345 

2.  The  law  of  the  land,  and  not  an  army,  is  to  be  resorted 
to  for  the  punishment  of  citizens  of  the  United  States  who  may 
be  charged  with  crimes.  Eegular  proof,  too,  ought  to  precede 
punishment. 

3.  The  sense  of  a  committee,  at  least,  of  the  Senate,  appears 
to  be  the  same ;  because  a  bill  is  actually  depending  before 
them  for  giving  the  power  to  the  President  to  use  military  force 
on  such  occasions.  This  would  not  have  been  necessary,  if  the 
power  existed  already. 

4.  The  present  case  is  not  an  invasion  from  a  foreign  nation, 
in  the  grammatical,  legal,  or  constitutional  import. 

5.  If  it  Avere  an  insurrection,  the  President  is  restricted,  by 
law  of  May  2,  1792,  from  interposing  even  with  militia,  except 
upon  the  application  of  the  legislature  or  executive  of  Ken- 
tucky. 

6.  The  marshals  and  their  deputies  have  the  same  power  as 
sheriffs  to  call  out  the  " posse  comitatus" 

7.  If  a  combination  to  obstruct  the  laws  be  too  powerful,  the 
President  cannot  draw  forth  even  the  militia,  but  upon  a  notifi- 
cation from  a  judge  of  the  Supreme  or  District  Courts. 

8.  If  the  blood  of  the  citizens  of  Kentucky  should  be  shed, 
under  the  order  now  advised,  it  will,  I  fear,  terminate  in  a  revolt 
of  that  country,  and  a  separation  from  the  Union ;  and, 

9.  The  probability  is,  that  the  attempt  which  was  begun  is 
at  an  end  for  the  present,  and  it  is,  at  any  rate,  better  to  wait 
and  see  what  power  Congress  may  give,  than  to  hazard  so  doubt- 
ful an  one  on  so  critical  an  occasion. 


HAMILTON  TO   SHORT. 
Treasury  Department,  Philadelphia,  March  15th,  1793. 

Sir: 

You  will  find  inclosed  a  duplicate  of  a  letter  from  me  to  you, 
of  the  1st  of  February,  and  a  copy  of  one  from  me,  of  this  date, 
to  our  bankers  at  Amsterdam. 


346  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  36. 

I  was  not  insensible  to  the  judicious  views  which  led  you  to 
desire  that  the  United  States  might  not  place  themselves  in  a 
situation  to  be  obliged  to  retrograde  with  regard  to  the  rate  of 
interest;  and  I  shall  be  sorry  if  the  arrangements  made  here 
have  interefered  with  the  execution  of  them,  as  appears  to  be 
now  probable.  An  expectation  of  a  more  favorable  state  of  the 
market,  and  a  reluctance  to  incur  a  further  loss  of  interest  on  the 
moneys  which  remained  on  hand,  of  former  loans,  has  led  to  the 
course  which  has  been  pursued. 

The  present  price  of  bills  enables  me  to  invest  moneys  for 
the  intended  remittance,  with  a  gain  of  about  seven  per  cent., 
which  will  be  a  partial  indemnification  for  other  disadvantages. 

The  inclosed  extract  from  the  minutes  of  the  House  of  Kep- 
resentatives,  will  inform  you  of  the  result  of  the  affair  about 
which  I  wrote  to  you,  not  long  since,  by  way  of  England.  'Tis 
to  be  lamented  that  already  the  spirit  of  party  has  made  so  great 
a  progress  in  our  infant  republic ;  but  it  is,  at  the  same  time,  a 
source  of  congratulation  that  it,  as  yet,  has  its  bounds,  and  that 
there  are  many  who  will  only  go  a  certain  length  in  compliance 
with  its  dictates. 


HAMILTON    TO    MESSRS.     W.   AND    J.    WILLINK,   N.   AND    G.  VAN 
STAPHORST  AND   HUBBARD,    BANKERS,    AMSTERDAM. 

Treasury  Department,  Philadelphia,  March  15,  1793. 

Gentlemen  : 

I  received,  two  days  since,  the  letter  which  you  did  me  the 
honor  to  write  me  of  the  14th  of  January  last,  inclosing  the  copy 
of  one  of  the  same  date  to  Mr.  Short. 

I  regret  the  state  of  things  as  there  exhibited ;  and  my  re- 
gret will  be  increased,  if  circumstances  shall  have  rendered  it 
necessary  to  allow  the  high  rate  of  five  per  cent,  for  the  contem- 
plated loan.  I  hope,  nevertheless,  a  better  issue  from  your  zeal 
and  intelligent  exertions ;  and,  in  time  to  come,  every  effort 
must  be  made  here  to  avoid  a  like  necessity.  If  the  thing  were 
still  in  my  power,  I  should  decline  the  loan  altogether. 


^t.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  347 

Lest  a  disappointment  should  attend  the  obtaining  of  a  loan, 
I  have  taken  measures  to  arrest,  in  your  hands,  495,000  guilders, 
of  the  sum  which  I  last  advised  you  would  be  drawn  for.  The 
sale  having  been  made  to  the  Bank  of  the  United  States,  has  left 
this  expedient  in  my  power.  I  shall,  in  addition  to  this,  cause 
to  be  remitted  to  you,  between  this  time  and  the  third  of  next 
month, — when  the  British  packet  sails, — the  further  sum  of 
975,000  guilders,  in  bills  upon  London  and  Amsterdam;  unless 
I  should,  in  the  mean  time,  hear  of  a  loan  having  been  under- 
taken. I  cannot  doubt  that  it  will  be,  at  all  events,  in  your 
power  to  make  temporary  arrangements  to  face  the  exigency, 
should  any  delays  ensue,  which  may  prevent  these  means  being 
in  measure  for  the  demand. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  March  18,  1793. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  respectfully  makes  the  follow- 
ing Report  to  the  President  of  the  United  States : 

The  act,  entitled  "An  act  making  appropriations  for  the  sup- 
port of  government  for  the  year  one  thousand  seven  hundred 
and  ninety-three,"  empowers  the  President  to  borrow  for  the  pur- 
poses therein  specified,  any  sum  or  sums,  not  exceeding  in  the 
whole  eight  hundred  thousand  dollars,  at  a  rate  of  interest  not 
exceeding  five  per  centum  per  annum,  and  reimbursable  at  the 
pleasure  of  the  United  States. 

In  order  to  enable  the  President  to  judge  how  soon,  and  to 
what  extent  it  will  be  necessary  to  carry  the  above  mentioned 
power  into  execution,  the  following  statements  and  facts  are  sub- 
mitted : — 

1st.  Statement  No.  1,  being  the  copy  of  one  lately  reported 
to  the  House  of  Representatives,  which  shows  the  probable  situ- 
ation of  the  public  cash,  from  the  last  of  December,  1792,  to  the 


348  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

1st  of  April,  1793 ;  leaving  a  balance  in  the  Treasury  of  664,180 
dollars  and  89  cents. 

2d.  Statement  No.  2,  showing  the  probable  situation  of  the 
account  between  the  United  States  and  their  bankers  at  Amster- 
dam, on  the  first  of  the  present  month,  on  the  supposition  of  a 
full  payment  of  the  Spanish  debt;  which  statement  is  deduced 
from  an  account  of  the  bankers,  dated  the  1st  of  January,  1793, 
and  exhibits  a  balance  against  the  United  States  of  72,265  florins 
or  guilders.  Besides  this  balance,  requiring  a  provision,  there 
will,  on  the  first  of  June  next,  be  payable  at  Amsterdam, 
On  account  of  the  principal  of  the  Dutch  loans,  1,000,000 

"  for  interest  on  do.         .         .       470,000 


Guilders,  1,470,000 
which  being  added  to  the  above  balance  of  72,265  guilders,  at 
the  rate  of  36T4T  ninetieths  per  guilder,  will  be  equal  to  623,137 
dollars  and  37  cents. 

There  are  competent  powers  and  instructions  in  Holland  for 
making  a  further  loan,  out  of  which  the  payment  of  the  above 
sum  might  be  effected ;  but  it  is  problematical  whether  one  can 
be  obtained  upon  admissible  terms,  in  time  to  answer  the  purpose. 

That  the  public  credit  may  not  be  in  jeopardy  of  suffering  a 
wound,  it  is  necessary  to  remit  the  whole,  or  the  greatest  part  of 
the  requisite  sums,  without  delay.  Bills  are  now  purchasing 
with  a  view  to  this  object ;  the  rate  of  exchanges,  which  is  at 
present  more  than  seven  per  cent,  below  par,  will  afford  an  in- 
demnification for  the  suspension  of  this  fund  from  employment, 
in  case  it  should  turn  out  in  the  event  that  a  loan  has  been 
procured. 

Deducting  this  sum  from  the  balance,  as  per  Statement  No.  1, 
there  would  remain  only  41,053  dollars  and  52  cents ;  which 
would  be  much  too  small  a  sum  to  be  in  the  Treasury,  if  all  the 
demands  for  which  it  is  liable,  as  expressed  in  the  said  state- 
ment, were  likely  to  fall  upon  it  within  the  period. 

But,  'tis  probable  some  of  the  calculated  disbursements  will 
not  take  place  within  the  present  quarter,  particularly  a  part  of 
the  sums  due  to  foreign  officers — part  of  the  expenditure  for  the 


jEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  349 

War  Department — the  sum  stated  for  the  expenses  of  the  Indian 
treaty,  which,  together,  may  amount  to  about  300,000  dollars ; 
to  this  may  likewise  be  added  about  150,000  dollars  of  the  in- 
terest on  the  public  debt,  of  which  the  greatest  part  will  be 
included  in  the  sum  to  be  paid  the  1st  of  June  in  Holland,  and 
which  is  comprehended  in  the  sum  stated  as  necessary  to  be 
remitted. 

This  circumstance  will  enable  the  Treasury  to  be  in  measure 
for  the  payments,  which  will  accrue  in  the  succeeding  quarter, 
on  account  of  the  debt  due  to  France,  and,  together  with  the 
current  receipts,  to  keep  pace  with  other  demands  in  the  early 
part  of  that  quarter. 

But  the  aid  of  a  loan,  during  this  second  quarter,  will  proba- 
bly be  indispensable.  The  suspended  disbursements  of  the  first 
quarter  ought  to  be  calculated  upon,  as  falling  within  the 
second ;  and  the  Treasury  ought,  at  all  events,  to  be  prepared 
for  them. 

Statement  ISTo.  3  shows  the  probable  state  of  the  public  cash 
during  the  second  quarter — that  is,  from  the  last  of  March  to  the 
1st  of  July,  showing  a  balance  against  the  Treasury  of  672,023 
dollars  and  26  cents.  This  balance  ought  to  be  provided  for  in 
due  time  by  a  loan.  And  it  will  appear,  from  Statement  No. 
4,  that  the  same  auxiliary  will  be  necessary  to  the  operations  of 
the  third  quarter  of  the  present  year. 

In  the  fourth  quarter,  the  receipts  may  be  expected  to  be 
amply  sufficient,  so  as  to  afford  a  surplus  towards  reimbursing 
the  loan  of  the  last  year. 

It  is  submitted,  as  the  result  of  the  foregoing  data,  that  im- 
mediate measures  be  taken  to  engage  of  the  Bank  the  loan  of  the 
800,000  dollars  authorized  by  the  act  herein  before  mentioned. 

It  will  be  desirable  to  have  the  whole  sum  immediately 
passed  to  the  credit  of  the  United  States,  upon  an  agreement 
that  none  of  it  shall  be  actually  called  for  till  the  1st  of  June,  and 
that  it  shall  be  payable  in  four  equal  monthly  instalments,  each 
to  bear  interest  from  the  time  stipulated  for  the  payment. 

The  reason  of  endeavoring  to  have  the  whole  sum  immedi- 
ately carried  to  the  credit  of  the  Treasury,  is  the  better  to  con- 


350  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

form  to  the  strict  theory  of  appropriations,  which  supposes  that 
there  is  always  a  representative  in  the  Treasury  for  any  sums 
which  may  have  come  into  it,  and  may  not  have  been  applied 
according  to  their  legal  destination. 

By  making  the  instalments  commence  only  with  the  first  of 
June,  there  would  be  a  deficiency  in  the  Treasury,  if  all  the  cal- 
culated disbursements  were  to  take  place  within  the  time  ;  but 
this  seldom  or  never  happens  ;  and  should  a  deficiency  be  ex- 
perienced, it  may  safely  be  counted  upon  that  the  Bank  would 
accelerate  its  latter  instalments.  And,  as  it  may  turn  out  that 
a  loan  may  have  been  procured  in  Europe,  it  seems  to  be  the 
most  prudent  mean  to  postpone  the  commencement  of  the  in- 
stalments to  the  1st  of  June,  as  proposed. 

If  the  Bank  will,  as  heretofore,  leave  it  in  the  discretion  of 
the  Treasury  to  call  for  the  money  as  wanted,  which  will  be  at- 
tempted, it  will  obviate  all  difficulty ;  but  it  is  hardly  to  be  ex- 
pected they  will  repeat  a  practice  so  little  provident  on  their 
part. 

All  which  is  respectfully  submitted. 

Alexander  Hamilton, 

/Secretary  of  the  Treasury. 


No.  I. 

Probable  state  of  cash  from  the  last  of  December,  1792,  to  the  first  of 

April,  1793. 
Dr. 

To  balance  of  cash  in  the  Treasury,  per  Statement  A,  .        .         .    $783,444  51 

"  cash  in  the  Bank  on  account  of  foreign  bills,  not  passed  to  credit 

of  the  Treasurer,  per  Statement  A  B,  ....      605,883  08 

"  amount  of  proceeds  of  ditto  deposited  with  the  Bank  of  North 

America, 177,998  80 

"  proceeds  of  Amsterdam  bills  expected  to  be  received  by  the  first 

April, 614,593  02 

"  cash  in  the  hands  of  Collectors  at  the  end  of  1792,  per  Ab- 
stract D, 151,851  25 

"  sums  expected  to  be  received  during  the  present  quarter  on  ac- 
count of  duties  prior  to  1793,      918,254  82 


jEt.36.]  cabinet   papers.  351 

To  sum  which  may  be  received  on  account  of  duties  of  the  current 

quarter, •         .         10.000  00 

"  excess  of  dividend  beyond  the  interest  on  the  stock  of  the  gov- 
ernment in  the  Bank  of  the  United  States  for  the  last  half 
year,  . 20,000  00 


3,282,025  48 


Contra.      Cr. 

By  amount  of  warrants  which  were  drawn  prior  to  the  first  of  Janu- 
ary, 1793,  and  not  paid  by  the  Treasurer*  ....     $42,136  33 
"  sums  for  which  warrants  have  issued  subsequent  to  the  year 

1792, 549,640  91 

"  sums  which  were  payable  to  foreign  officers  on 

the  31st  December  last,  ....   $172,96211 

From  which  deduct  payments  made  since  that  peri- 
od, included  in  the  amount  above  stated,  of  war- 
rants issued  subsequent  to  the  year  1792,  .         .  9,985  27       162,976  84 
By  sums  payable  on  account  of  the  debt  to  France  to  the  first  of 

April  inclusively, 165,000  00 

"  arrears  for  the  War  Department, 50,000  00 

"  other  arrears  to  the  end  of  1792, 50.000  00 

"  quarter's  interest  on  the  public  debt, 712,298  68 

"  quarter  part  of  the  expenditure  for  the  current  service,    .         .      404,196  27 
"  sum  requisite  for  the  purposes  of  Indian  treaty,    .         .         .  75,000  00 

"  sum  advanced  by  the  Bank  of  North  America,  included  in  the 

deposit  of  the  proceeds  of  bills  per  contra,    ....       156,595  56 
"  sum  to  be  issued  from  the  Treasury  to  enable  the  Secretary  of 
State  to  pay  for  the  bills  furnished  to  him  for  the  purpose  of 
the  third  section  of  the  act  of  last  session,  making  certain 

appropriations  therein  specified, 50,000  00 

"  first  instalment  of  $2,000,000  due  to  the  Bank  of  the  United 

States, 200.000  00 

"  balance, 664,180  89 


3,282,025  48 
*  These,  of  course,  did  not  come  into  his  account  for  the  last  quarter,  1792. 


352  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

No.  II. 

W.  &  J.  Willinh,  iV.  &  J.  Van  Staphorst  and  Hubbard,  Amsterdam, 

1793.  Dr. 

Jan.  1st.     To  balance  in  their  hands,         ......    1,744,750 

"    residue  of  the  last  three  millions  loan,  to  be  received,    .      360,000 
"   balance  for  which  the  Commissioners  will  be  in  advance 

on  the  1st  March,  1793, 72,265 


Fls.  2,177,015 
Contra.    Cr. 


1793. 


By  premium  on  the  residue  of  the  three  millions  loan,  at  5 

per  cent., 18,000 

"  interest  due  to  foreign  officers,        .         .         .         ,  105.000 

Feb.  1st.        "  interest  on  three  millions,  at  5  per  cent.,     .         r         .  150.000 

;c       do.      on  two  millions,  at  4  per  cent.,             .        .  80.000 

"  premium  on  do.,         .......  100.000 

"   gratuity  on  do.,  at  8  per  cent., 28,000 

March  1st.     "  interest  on  two  and  a  half  millions,  5  per  cent.,       .  125.000 

"  commission  on  paying  interest  355,000  flor's,  1  per  cent.,  3,550 

1792. 

Nov.  30.         "  draughts  of  the  Treasurer, 1,237,500 

Dec.  28.         "  ditto, 24,750 

'•  remittances  to  be  made  to  Spain,  estimated  fls.,  680  000 

"  on  account  of  which  have  been  remitted,             374,785,  305.215 


flos.  2,177.015 

No.   III. 

Probable  state  of  cash  from  the  1st  of  April  to  the  1st  of  July,  1793. 

Dr. 

To  balance  of  cash,  per  Statement  No.  1. 664,180  89 

To  amount  of  sums  expected  to  be  received  during  the  quarter  on 
account  of  the  duties  of  imports  and  tonnage,  viz.  : 

Per  returns  to  7th  March,  1793.         .         .  747,69196 

Per  estimate  in  the  cases  of  deficient  returns,      200,000  00       947,691  96 
To  amount  of  sums  expected  to  be  received  on  account  of  duties 

on  spirits  distilled  within  the  United  States,    ....       100,000  00 
To  balance  against  the  Treasury  to  be  supplied  by  loan,     .         .  672,023  26 

,383,896  11 


Mt.36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  353 

Contra.   Cr. 

By  this  sum  invested  and  expected  to  be  invested    towards    the 
payments  which  will  become  due  in  Holland  on  the  1st  of  June 

next, 623,137  37 

By  this  sum  to  complete  the  advances  for  St.  Domingo,  .         .      149,763  79 

By  this  sum  promised  in  addition  to  100,000  dollars,  payable  on  the 
1st  of  April,  and  credited  in  statement  No.   1  for  supplies  to 

France, 444,500  00 

By  amount  of  one  quarter's  interest, 712.298  68 

By  one  quarter  of  the  current  expenditure  for  1793,       .         .         .      404,196  27 
By  probable  demands  for  arrears  of  appropriations  antecedent  to 

1793,  50,000  00 

$2,383,896  11 

No.  IY. 
Probable  state  of  cash  from  the  1st  of  July  to  the  1st  of  October,  1793. 

Dr. 

To  amount  of  sums  expected  to  be  received  this  quarter  on 
account  of  imports  and  tonnage,  per  return  to  the  7th 
'of  March, DIs.  391,047  67 

Ditto  per  estimate, 200.000  00     591,047  67 

To  amount  of  sums  expected  to  be  received  on  account  of  spirits 

distilled  within  the  United  States, 200,000  00 

To  balance  ag;inst  the  Treasury, 325,447  28 

1,116,494  95 

Contra.   Cr. 

By  amount  of  one  quarter's  interest, 712,298  68 

By  one  quarter  of  the  current  expenditure  for  1793,         .         .  404,196  27 

1,116,494  95 


D  23 


354  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 


JEFFERSON  TO   HAMILTON. 

Philadelphia.  March  27,  1793. 

Sir: 

In  compliance  with  the  desire  you  expressed,  I  shall  endeavor 
to  give  you  the  view  I  had  of  the  destination  of  the  loan  of  three 
millions  of  florins  obtained  by  our  bankers  in  Amsterdam,  pre- 
vious to  the  acts  of  the  4th  and  12th  of  August,  1790,  when  it 
was  proposed  to  adopt  it  under  those  acts.  I  am  encouraged  to 
do  this  by  the  degree  of  certainty  with  which  I  can  do  it,  hap- 
pening to  possess  an  official  paper  whereon  I  had  committed  to 
writing  some  thoughts  on  the  subject,  at  the  time,  that  is  to  say, 
on  the  26th  of  August,  1790. 

The  general  plan  presented  to  view,  according  to  my  compre- 
hension of  it,  in  your  report  and  draft  of  instructions,  was,  first, 
to  borrow,  on  proper  terms,  such  a  sum  of  money  as  might  an- 
swer all  demands  for  principal  and  interest  of  the  foreign  debt 
due  to  the  end  of  1791 ;  second,  to  consider  two  of  the  three 
millions  of  florins  already  borrowed,  as  if  borrowed  under  the 
act  of  August  4,  and  so  far  an  execution  of  the  operation  before 
mentioned ;  third,  to  consider  the  third  million  of  florins  so  bor- 
rowed, as  if  borrowed  under  the  act  of  the  12th  of  August,  and 
so  far  an  execution  of  the  powers  given  to  the  President  to  bor- 
row two  millions  of  dollars  for  the  purchase  of  the  public  debt. 
I  remember  that  the  million  of  dollars  surplus  of  the  public  rev- 
enues, appropriated  to  the  purchase  of  the  public  debt,  appeared 
to  me  sufficient  for  that  purpose  here,  for  probably  a  considerable 
time.  I  thought,  therefore,  if  any  part  of  the  three  millions  of 
florins  were  to  be  placed  under  the  act  of  the  12th  of  August, 
that  it  should  rather  be  employed  in  purchasing  our  foreign  paper 
at  the  market  of  Amsterdam.  I  had  myself  observed  the  differ- 
ent degrees  of  estimation  in  which  the  paper  of  different  coun- 
tries was  held  at  that  market,  and  wishing  that  our  credit  there 
might  always  be  of  the  first  order,  I  thought  a  moderate  sum 
kept  in  readiness  there,  to  buy  up  any  of  our  foreign  paper, 
whenever  it  should  be  offered  below  par,  would  keep  it  constant- 


Srs.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  355 

ly  to  that  mark,  and  thereby  establish  for  us  a  sound  credit, 
where,  of  all  places  in  the  world,  it  would  be  most  important  to 
have  it 

The  subject  however  not  being  within  my  department,  and 
therefore  having  no  occasion  afterwards  to  pay  attention  to  it,  it 
went  out  of  nry  mind  altogether,  till  the  late  inquiries  brought 
it  forward  again.  On  reading  the  President's  instructions  of 
August  28,  1790  (two  days  later  than  the  paper  before  mention- 
ed), as  printed  in  your  report  of  February  13,  1793,  in  the  form 
in  which  they  were  given  to  you,  I  observed  that  he  had  therein 
neither  confirmed  your  sentiment  of  employing  a  part  of  the 
money  here,  nor  mine  of  doing  it  there,  in  purchases  of  the  public 
debt ;  but  had  directed  the  application  of  the  whole  to  the,  foreign- 
debt;  and  I  inferred  that  he  had  done  this  on  full  and 
deliberation,  well  knowing  he  would  have  time  enough  to  weigh 
the  merits  of  the  two  opinions  before  the  million  of  dollars  would 
be  exhausted  here,  or  the  loans  for  the  foreign  debt  would  over- 
run their  legal  measure  tliere.  In  this  inference,  however,  I  might 
be  mistaken ;  but  I  cannot  be  in  the  fact  that  these  instructions 
gave  a  sanction  to  neither  opinion. 

I  have  thus,  sir,  stated  to  you  the  view  I  had  of  this  subject 
in  1790,  and  I  have  done  it  because  you  desired  it  I  did  not 
take  it  up  then  as  a  volunteer,  nor  should  now  have  taken  the 
trouble  of  recurring  to  it,  but  at  your  request,  as  it  is  one  in 
which  I  am  not  particularly  concerned,  which  I  never  had  either 
the  time  or  inclination  to  investigate,  and  on  which  my  opinion 
is  of  no  importance. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be  with  respect,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  April  6,  1793. 


Sir: 

The  ship  John  Buckley  \s  just  arrived  here  from  Lisbon,  which 
place  she  left  on  the  23d  of  February. 


356  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

The  Messrs.  Wains,  a  respectable  mercantile  house  here,  have 
received  a  letter  from  Mr.  John  Buckley,  a  respectable  merchant 
of  Lisbon,  after  whom  the  ship  is  named,  of  which  the  following 
is  an  extract : 

"  By  letters  from  France,  by  this  day's  post,  we  find  that  an 
embargo  took  place  there  the  2d  instant,  on  all  English,  Eus- 
sian,  and  Dutch  vessels,  which  is  certainly  the  prelude  of  war.'7 
This  letter  is  dated  the  22d  of  February. 

Messrs.  Wains  in  addition  inform ,  that  on  the  23d  of 

February,  the  moment  the  ship  was  getting  under  way,  Mr. 
Buckley  came  on  board  with  a  letter  from  Mr.  Fenwick,  of 
Bourdeaux,  informing  him  that  war  had  been  declared  by  France 
against  England,  Eussia,  and  Holland.  The  foregoing  particulars 
I  have  directly  from  the  Wains. 

The  report  in  the  city  is,  that  the  war  was  declared  on  the 
8th  of  February. 

Combining  this  with  the  letter  of  Lord  Grenville  to  Mr. 
Chauvelen,  requiring  his  departure,  and  the  King's  Message  to 
the  House  of  Commons,  founded  upon — there  seems  to  be  no 
room  for  doubt  of  the  existence  of  war. 

P.  S.  I  this  instant  learn  that  there  are  English  papers  in 
town,  by  way  of  St.  Yincent's,  which  mention  that  on  the  8th  of 
February  the  late  Queen  of  France  was  also  put  to  death,  after  a 
trial  and  condemnation. 


HAMILTON  TO   WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  April  8th,  1793. 

Sir: 

The  papers  of  to-day,  which,  I  take  it  for  granted,  are  for- 
warded to  you,  will  inform  you  of  a  confirmation  of  the  war  be- 
tween France,  England  and  Holland,  and  of  such  other  leading 
particulars  as  are  contained  in  the  English  papers  brought  by  the 
packet. 


jEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  357 

The  object  of  this  letter  is  merely  to  apprise  you  that  the 
whole  current  of  commercial  intelligence,  which  comes  down  to  the 
11th  of  February,  indicates  thus  far  an  unexceptionable  conduct 
on  the  part  of  the  British  government  towards  the  vessels  of  the 
United  States. 

The  information  is  received  here  with  very  great  satisfaction, 
as  favorable  to  a  continuance  of  peace,  the  desire  of  which  may 
be  said  to  be  both  universal  and  ardent. 

With  the  highest  respect  and  the  truest  attachment,  &c. 


WASHINGTON  TO    HAMILTON. 

Mount  Vernon,  12th  April,  1793. 

Dear  Sir: 

Your  letter  of  the  7th  was  brought  to  me  by  the  last  post 
War  having  actually  commenced  between  France  and  Great 
Britain,  it  behooves  the  government  of  this  country  to  use  every 
means  in  its  power  to  prevent  the  citizens  thereof  from  embroiling 
us  with  either  of  those  powers,  by  endeavoring  to  maintain  a  strict 
neutral ity.  I  therefore  require  that  you  will  give  the  subject 
mature  consideration,  that  such  measures  as  shall  be  deemed 
most  likely  to  effect  this  desirable  purpose  may  be  adopted  with- 
out delay;  for  I  have  understood  that  vessels  are  already  desig- 
nated as  privateers,  and  arc  preparing  accordingly- 
Such  other  measures  as  may  be  necessary  for  us  to  pursue 
against  events  which  it  may  not  be  in  our  power  to  avoid  or 
control,  you  will  also  think  of,  and  lay  them  before  me  on  my 
.arrival  in  Philadelphia,  for  which  place  I  shall  set  out  to-morrow, 
but  will  leave  it  to  the  advices  which  I  may  receive  to-night 
by  the  post  to  determine  whether  it  is  to  be  by  the  most  direct 
£oute,  or  by  the  one  I  proposed  to  come,  that  is,  by  Reading. 
With  yery  great  esteem  and  regard,  I  am,  &c. 


358  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 


SUBSTANCE   OF  THE   ANSWER   PROPOSED  TO   THE  LETTER  OF  THE 

FRENCH   MINISTER,    OF   APRIL   13. 

Draft  by  Jefferson. 

April  18th,  1793. 
Before  the  new  government  of  France  Lad  time  to  attend  to 
the  things  on  this  side  of  the  Atlantic,  and  to  provide  a  deposit  of 
money  for  their  purposes  here,  there  was  a  necessity  that  we, 
as  their  friends  and  debtors,  should  keep  their  affairs  from  suf- 
fering, by  furnishing  money  for  urgent  purposes.  This  obliged 
us  to  take  on  ourselves  to  judge  of  the  purpose,  because,  on  the 
soundness  of  that,  we  were  to  depend  for  our  justification  ;  hence 
we  furnished  moneys  for  their  colonies  and  their  agents  here — 
justified,  in  our  own  opinion,  by  the  importance  and  necessity  of 
the  case.  But  that  necessity  is  now  at  an  end.  The  govern- 
ment has  established  a  deposit  of  money  in  the  hands  of  their 
minister  here.  We  have  nothing  now  to  do  but  to  furnish  the 
money,  for  which  the  order  is  our  direction.  We  are  no  longer 
to  look  into  the  purposes  to  which  it  is  to  be  applied.  Their 
minister  is  to  be  judge  of  these,  and  to  pay  the  money  to  whom 
and  for  what  he  pleases. 

If  it  be  urged  that  they  have  appropriated  all  the  money  we 
are  advancing  to  another  object ;  that  he  is  not  authorized  to 
divert  any  of  it  to  any  other  purpose,  and  therefore  needs  a  fur- 
ther sum ;  it  may  be  answered,  that  it  will  not  lessen  the  stretch 
of  authority  to  add  an  unauthorized  payment  by  us,  to  an  un- 
authorized application  by  him ;  and  that  it  seems  fitter  that  he 
should  exercise  a  discretion  over  their  appropriations,  standing 
as  he  does  in  a  place  of  confidence,  authority,  and  responsibility, 
than  we  who  are  strangers  and  unamenable  to  them.  Private 
reasons  of  weight,  which  need  not  be  expressed  to  the  minister, 
that  these  applications  make  us,  in  some  sort,  a  board  of  auditors 
for  French  accounts,  and  subject  our  payments  to  question. 

That  it  is  known  to  us,  that  the  present  minister,  not  having 
the  confidence  of  his  government,  is  replaced  by  another,  and 
consequently  the  authority  of  his  application  is  lessened.     That 


iEx.36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  359 

it  is  rather  probable  the  whole  establishment  of  their  counsels 
here  will  be  suppressed,  as  useless  and  expensive  "to  them,  and 
rather  vexatious  to  us. 

Th.  Jefferson. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Philadelphia,  April  18th,  1793. 

Sir: 

The  posture  of  affairs  in  Europe,  particularly  between  France 
and  Great  Britain,  places  the  United  States  in  a  delicate  situa- 
tion, and  requires  much  consideration  as  to  the  measures  which 
it  will  be  proper  for  them  to  observe  in  the  war  between  those 
powers.  With  a  view  to  forming  a  general  plan  of  conduct  for 
the  Executive,  I  have  stated  and  inclosed  sundry  questions,  to 
be  considered  preparatory  to  a  meeting  at  my  house  to-morrow, 
where  I  shall  expect  to  see  you  at  nine  o'clock,  and  to  receive 
the  result  of  your  reflections  thereon. 

Question  1. — Shall  a  proclamation  issue  for  the  purpose  of 
Dreventing  interferences  of  the  citizens  of  the  United  States  in 
the  war  between  France  and  Great  Britain,  &c.  ?  Shall  it  con- 
tain a  declaration  of  neutrality  or  not?     What  shall  it  contain? 

Question  2. — Shall  a  minister  from  the  republic  of  France  be 
received  ? 

Question  3. — If  received,  shall  it  be  absolutely,  or  with  quali- 
fications ;  and  if  with  qualifications,  of  what  kind  ? 

Question  4. — Are  the  United  States  obliged,  by  good  faith, 
to  consider  the  treaties  heretofore  made  with  France,  as  apply- 
ing to  the  present  situation  of  the  parties  ?  May  they  either  re- 
nounce them,  or  hold  them  suspended  till  the  government  of 
France  shall  be  established? 

Question  5. — If  they  have  the  right,  is  it  expedient  to  do 
either,  and  which  ? 


360  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  |>Et.  36. 

Question  6. — If  they  have  an  option,  would  it  be  a  breach  of 
neutrality  to  consider  the  treaties  still  in  operation  ? 

Question  7. — If  the  treaties  are  to  be  considered  as  now  in 
operation,  is  the  guarantee  in  the  treaty  of  alliance  applicable  to 
a  defensive  war  only,  or  to  war  either  offensive  or  defensive  ? 

Question  8. — Does  the  war  in  which  France  is  engaged,  ap- 
pear to  be  offensive  or  defensive  on  her  part,  or  of  a  mixed  and 
equivocal  character  ? 

Question  9. — If  of  a  mixed  and  equivocal  character,  does  the 
guarantee,  in  any  event,  apply  to  such  a  war  ? 

Question  10. — What  is  the  effect  of  a  guarantee,  such  as  that 
to  be  found  in  the  treaty  of  alliance  between  the  United  States 
and  France  ? 

Question  11. — Does  any  article  in  either  of  the  treaties  pre- 
vent ships  of  war,  other  than  privateers,  of  the  powers  opposed 
to  France,  from  coming  into  the  ports  of  the  United  States,  to 
act  as  convoys  to  their  own  merchantmen  ?  or  does  it  lay  other 
restraints  upon  them,  more  than  would  apply  to  the  ships  of 
war  of  France  ? 

Question  12. — Should  the  future  regent  of  France  send  a  min- 
ister to  the  United  States,  ought  he  to  be  received  ? 

Question  13. — Is  it  necessary  or  advisable  to  call  together  the 

two  Houses  of  Congress,  with  a  view  to  the  present  posture  of 

European  affairs  ?    If  it  is,  what  should  be  the  particular  objects 

of  such  a  call  ? 

Geo.  Washington. 


CABINET  OPINION. 

April  19th,  1793. 
At  a  meeting  of  the  Heads  of  Departments,  and  the  Attorney- 
General,  at  the  President's,  April  19th,  1793,  to  consider  the 
foregoing  questions  proposed  by  the  President,  it  was  determined 
by  all,  on  the  first  question,  that  a  proclamation  shall  issue,  for- 
bidding our  citizens  to  take  part  in  any  hostilities  on  the  seas, 


,Et.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  361 

with  or  against  an}?-  of  the  belligerent  powers ;  and  warning 
them  against  carrying  to  any  such  powers,  any  of  those  articles 
deemed  contraband,  according  to  the  modern  usage  of  nations ; 
and  enjoining  them  from  all  acts  and  proceedings  inconsistent 
with  the  duties  of  a  friendly  nation  towards  those  at  war. 

On  the  second  question,  "  Shall  a  minister  from  the  republic 
of  France  be  received?"  It  was  unanimously  agreed  that  he  shall 
be  received. 

The  remaining  questions  were  postponed  for  further  consi- 
deration. 


April  22,  1793. 
BY  THE   PRESIDENT   OF   THE   UNITED   STATES   OF   AMERICA. 


A    PROCLAMATION. 


Whereas  it  appears  that  a  state  of  war  exists  between  Aus- 
tria, Prussia,  Sardinia,  Great  Britain,  and  the  United  Nether- 
lands, of  the  one  part,  and  France  on  the  other;  and  the  duty 
and  interest  of  the  United  States  require,  that  they  should  with 
sincerity  and  good  faith  adopt  and  pursue  a  conduct  friendly 
and  impartial  toward  belligerent  powers : 

I  have  therefore  thought  fit  by  these  presents  to  declare  the 
disposition  of  the  United  States  to  observe  the  conduct  aforesaid 
toward  those  powers  respectively,  and  to  exhort  and  warn  the 
citizens  of  the  United  States  carefully  to  avoid  all  acts  and  pro- 
ceedings whatsoever,  which  may  in  any  manner  tend  to  contra- 
vene such  disposition. 

And  I  do  hereby  also  make  known,  that  whosoever  of  the 
citizens  of  the  United  States  shall  render  himself  liable  to  pun- 
ishment or  forfeiture  under  the  law  of  nations,  by  committing, 
aiding,  or  abetting  hostilities  against  any  of  the  said  powers,  or 
by  carrying  to  any  of  them  those  articles  which  are  deemed  con- 
traband by  the  modem  usage  of  nations,  will  not  receive  the 
protection  of  the  United  States  against  such  punishment  or  for- 


362  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^t.  36. 

feiture :  and  further,  that  I  have  given  instructions  to  those  offi- 
cers, to  whom  it  belongs,  to  cause  prosecutions  to  be  instituted 
against  all  persons  who  shall,  within  the  cognizance  of  the  courts 
of  the  United  States,  violate  the  law  of  nations,  with  respect  to 
the  powers  at  war,  or  any  of  them. 

In  testimony  whereof,  I  have  caused  the  seal  of  the  United 
States  of  America  to  be  affixed  to  these  presents,  and  signed  the 
same  with  my  hand. 

Done  at  the  city  of  Philadelphia,  the  twenty-second  day  of 
April,  one  thousand  seven  hundred  and  ninety-three,  and  of  the 
independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  seventeenth. 

George  Washington. 

By  the  President. 

Th.  Jefferson. 


HAMILTON   TO   WASHINGTON. 

April,  1793. 
Question  the  Third  proposed  by  the  President  of  the  United  States. 
— "  If  a  minister  from  the  republic  of  France  shall  be  received, 
shall  it  be  absolutely,  or  with  qualifications — and  if  with  qualifi- 
cations, of  what  kind?" 

Answer. 

It  is  conceived  to  be  advisable  that  the  reception  of  the  ex- 
pected minister  from  the  republic  of  France  should  be  qualified 
by  a  previous  declaration,  substantially  to  this  effect :  "  That  the 
government  of  the  United  States,  uniformly  entertaining  cordial 
wishes  for  the  happiness  of  the  French  nation,  and  disposed  to 
maintain  an  amicable  communication  and  intercourse,  uninter- 
rupted by  political  vicissitudes,  does  not  hesitate  to  receive  him 
in  the  character  which  his  credentials  import ;  yet,  considering 
the  origin,  course,  and  circumstances  of  the  relations  originally 
contracted  between  the  two  countries,  and  the  existing  position 
of  the  affairs  of  France,  it  is  deemed  advisable  and  proper  on  the 
part  of  the  United  States,  to  reserve  to  future  consideration  and 


jEt.  36.]  cabinet   papers.  363 

discussion  the  question — whether  the  operation  of  the  treaties, 
by  which  those  relations  were  formed,  ought  not  to  be  deemed 
temporarily  and  provisionally  suspended ;  and  under  this  impres- 
sion, it  is  thought  due  to  a  spirit  of  candid  and  friendly  procedure 
to  apprise  him  beforehand  of  the  intention  to  reserve  that  ques- 
tion, lest  silence  on  the  point  should  occasion  misconstruction." 

The  grounds  of  this  opinion  are  as  follow  : 

The  treaties  between  the  United  States  and  France  were 
made  with  His  Most  Christian  Majesty,  his  heirs  and  successors. 
The  government  of  France,  which  existed  at  the  time  those  trea- 
ties were  made,  gave  way,  in  the  first  instance,  to  a  new  constitu- 
tion, formed  by  the  representatives  of  the  nation,  and  accepted 
by  the  king,  which  went  into  regular  operation.  Of  a  sudden, 
a  tumultuous  rising  took  place.  The  king  was  seized,  impri- 
soned, and  declared  to  be  suspended  by  the  authority  of  the 
National  Assembly ;  a  body  delegated  to  exercise  the  legislative 
functions  of  the  already  established  government — in  no  shape 
authorized  to  divest  any  other  of  the  constituted  authorities  of 
its  legal  capacities  or  powers.  So  far,  then,  what  was  done  was 
a  manifest  assumption  of  power. 

To  justify  it,  it  is  alleged  to  have  been  necessary  for  the 
safety  of  the  nation,  to  prevent  the  success  of  a  counter-revolution 
meditated  or  patronized  by  the  king. 

On  the  other  side,  it  is  affirmed  that  the  whole  transaction 
was  merely  the  execution  of  a  plan  which  had  been  for  some 
time  projected,  and  had  been  gradually  ripening,  to  bring  about 
an  abolition  of  the  royalty  and  the  establishment  of  a  republican 
government. 

No  satisfactory  proof  is  known  to  have  been  produced  to  fix 
upon  the  king  the  charges  which  have  been  brought  against  him. 

On  the  other  hand,  declarations  have  escaped  from  characters 
who  took  a  lead  in  the  measure  of  suppressing  the  royalty, 
which  seem  to  amount  to  a  tacit  acknowledgment,  that  the 
events  of  the  10th  of  August  were  the  result  of  a  premeditated 
plan  of  the  republican  party,  to  get  rid  of  the  monarchical  power, 
rather  than  a  necessary  counteraction  of  mischievous  designs  on 
the  part  of  the  king. 


364  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  36. 

Mr.  De  Malsherbes,  one  of  the  counsel  of  the  king,  makes 
this  striking  reflection  on  the  point. 

The  events  of  the  10th  of  August  were  followed  on  the  2d 
and  3d  of  September  with  the  massacre  of  a  great  number  of 
persons  in  different  parts  of  France,  including  several  distin- 
guished individuals,  who  were  known  to  be  attached  either  to 
the  ancient  government,  or  to  the  constitution  which  had  suc- 
ceeded to  it. 

The  suspension  of  the  king  was  accompanied  by  a  call  upon 
the  primary  assemblies  to  depute  persons  to  represent  them  in  a 
convention,  in  order  to  the  taking  of  such  measures  as  the  exi- 
gency of  the  conjuncture  might  require. 

Under  circumstances  not  free  from  precipitation,  violence 
and  awe,  deputies  to  a  national  convention  were  chosen.  They 
assembled  on  the  at  Paris,  and  on  the  very  day 

of  their  meeting  decreed  the  abolition  of  royalty. 

They  proceeded  in  the  next  place  to  organize  a  temporary 
provisional  government,  charged  with  managing  the  affairs  of 
the  nation,  till  a  constitution  should  be  established. 

As  a  circumstance  that  gives  a  complexion  to  the  course  of 
things,  it  is  proper  to  mention  that  the  Jacobin  Club  at  Paris 
(a  society  which,  with  its  branches  in  different  parts  of  France, 
appears  to  have  had  a  prevailing  influence  over  the  affairs  of  the 
country),  previous  to  the  meeting  of  the  convention,  entered  into 
measures  with  the  avowed  object  of  purging  the  convention  of 
those  persons,  favorers  of  roj^alty,  who  might  have  escaped  the 
attention  of  the  primary  assemblies. 

In  the  last  place,  the  late  king  of  France  has  been  tried  and 
condemned  by  the  convention,  and  has  suffered  death. 

Whether  he  has  suffered  justly  or  unjustl}7,  whether  he  has 
been  a  guilty  tyrant  or  an  unfortunate  victim,  is  at  least  a  prob- 
lem. There  certainly  can  be  no  hazard  in  affirming,  that  no 
proof  has  yet  come  to  light  sufficient  to  establish  a  belief  that 
the  death  of  Louis  is  an  act  of  national  justice. 

It  appears  to  be  regarded  in  a  different  light  throughout  Eu- 
rope, and  by  a  numerous  and  respectable  part,  if  not  by  a  majo- 
rity, of  the  people  of  the  United  States. 


;Et.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  365 

Almost  all  Europe  is  or  seems  likely  to  be  armed  in  op- 
position to  the  present  rulers  of  France,  with,  the  declared  or 
implied  intention  of  restoring,  if  possible,  the  royalty  in  the 
successor  of  the  deceased  monarch. 

The  present  war,  then,  turns  essentially  on  the  point — What 
shall  be  the  future  government  of  France  ?  Shall  the  royal  au- 
thority be  restored  in  the  person  of  the  successor  of  Louis,  or 
shall  a  republic  be  constituted  in  exclusion  of  it  ? 

Thus  stand  the  material  facts  which  regard  the  origin  of  our 
connections  with  France,  and  the  obligations  or  dispensations 
that  now  exist. 

They  have  been  stated,  not  with  a  view  to  indicate  a  defini- 
tive opinion  concerning  the  propriety  of  the  conduct  of  the  pres- 
ent rulers  of  France,  but  to  show  that  the  course  of  the  revolution 
there  has  been  attended  with  circumstances,  which  militate  against 
a  full  conviction  of  its  having  been  brought  to  its  present  stage 
by  such  a  free,  regular,  and  deliberate  act  of  the  nation,  and  with 
such  a  spirit  of  justice  and  humanity,  as  ought  to  silence  all  scru- 
ples about  the  validity  of  what  has  been  done,  and  the  morality 
of  aiding  it,  if  consistent  with  policy. 

This  great  and  important  question  arises  out  of  the  facts 
which  have  been  stated : 

Are  the  United  States  bound,  by  the  principles  of  the  laws  of 
nations,  to  consider  the  treaties  heretofore  made  with  France  as 
in  present  force  and  operation  between  them  and  the  actual  gov- 
erning powers  of  the  French  nation  ?  or  may  they  elect  to  con- 
sider their  operation  as  suspended,  reserving  also  a  right  to  judge 
finally  whether  any  such  changes  have  happened  in  the  political 
affairs  of  France,  as  may  justify  a  renunciation  of  those  treaties? 
It  is  believed  that  they  have  an  option  to  consider  the  opera- 
tion of  those  treaties  as  suspended,  and  will  have  eventually  a 
right  to  renounce  them,  if  such  changes  shall  take  place  as  can 
bona  fide  be  pronounced  to  render  a  continuance  of  the  connections 
which  result  from  them  disadvantageous  or  dangerous. 

There  are  two  general  propositions  which  may  be  opposed  to 
this  opinion : — 1st.  That  a  nation  has  a  right,  in  its  own  discre- 
tion, to  change  its  form  of  government — to  abolish  one,  and 


366  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  36. 

substitute  another.  2d.  That  real  treaties  (of  which  description 
those  in  question  are)  bind  the  nations  whose  governments  con- 
tract, and  continue  in  force  notwithstanding  any  changes  which 
happen  in  the  forms  of  their  government. 

The  truth  of  the  first  proposition  ought  to  be  admitted  in  its 
fullest  latitude.  But  it  will  by  no  means  follow,  that,  because  a 
nation  has  a  right  to  manage  its  own  concerns  as  it  thinks  fit, 
and  to  make  such  changes  in  its  political  institutions  as  itself 
judges  best  calculated  to  promote  its  interests,  that  it  has  there- 
fore a  right  to  involve  other  nations,  with  whom  it  may  have  had 
connections,  absolutely  and  unconditionallg,  in  the  consequences  of 
the  changes  which  it  may  think  proper  to  make.  This  would  be  to 
give  to  a  nation  or  society  not  only  a  power  over  its  own  happi- 
ness, but  a  power  over  the  happiness  of  other  nations  or  societies. 
It  would  be  to  extend  the  operation  of  the  maxim  much  beyond 
the  reason  of  it,  which  is  simply,  that  every  nation  ought  to  have 
a  right  to  provide  for  its  own  happiness. 

If,  then,  a  nation  thinks  fit  to  make  changes  in  its  govern- 
ment, which  render  treaties  that  before  subsisted  between  it  and 
another  nation  useless,  or  dangerous,  or  hurtful  to  that  other 
nation,  it  is  a  plain  dictate  of  reason,  that  the  latter  will  have  a 
right  to  renounce  those  treaties ;  because  it  also  has  a  right  to 
take  care  of  its  own  happiness,  and  cannot  be  obliged  to  suffer 
this  to  be  impaired  by  the  means  which  its  neighbor  or  ally  may 
have  adopted  for  its  own  advantage,  contrary  to  the  ancient  state 
of  things. 

But  it  may  be  said,  that  an  obligation  to  submit  to  the  incon- 
veniences that  may  ensue,  arises  from  the  other  maxim  which 
has  been  stated,  namely,  that  real  treaties  bind  nations,  notwith- 
standing the  changes  which  happen  in  the  forms  of  their  gov- 
ernments. 

All  general  rules  are  to  be  construed  with  certain  reasonable 
limitations.  That  which  has  been  just  mentioned  must  be  un- 
derstood in  this  sense, — that  changes  in  forms  of  government  do 
not  of  course  abrogate  real  treaties ;  that  they  continue  absolutely 
binding  on  the  party  which  makes  the  change,  and  will  bind  the 
other  party,  unless,  in  due  time  and  for  just  cause,  he  declares 


At.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  367 

his  election  to  renounce  them ;  that  in  good  faith  he  ought  not 
to  renounce  them,  unless  the  change  which  happened  does  really 
render  them  useless,  or  materially  less  advantageous,  or  more 
dangerous  than  before.  But  for  good  and  sufficient  cause  he  may 
renounce  them. 

Nothing  can  be  more  evident  than  that  the  existing  forms  of 
government  of  two  nations  may  enter  far  into  the  motives  of  a 
real  treaty.  Two  republics  may  contract  an  alliance,  the  princi- 
pal inducement  to  which  may  be  a  similarity  of  constitutions, 
producing  a  common  interest  to  defend  their  mutual  rights  and 
liberties.  A  change  of  the  government  of  one  of  them  into  a 
monarchy  or  despotism  may  destroy  the  inducement  and  the 
main  link  of  common  interest.  Two  monarchies  may  form  an 
alliance  on  a  like  principle,  their  common  defence  against  a 
powerful  neighboring  republic.  The  change  of  the  government 
of  one  of  the  allies  may  destroy  the  source  of  common  sympathy 
and  common  interest,  and  render  it  prudent  for  the  other  ally  to 
renounce  the  connection  and  seek  to  fortify  itself  in  some  other 
quarter. 

Two  nations  may  form  an  alliance  because  each  has  confi- 
dence in  the  energy  and  efficacy  of  the  government  of  the  other. 
A  revolution  may  subject  one  of  them  to  a  different  form  of  gov- 
ernment— feeble,  fluctuating,  and  turbulent,  liable  to  provoke 
wars,  and  very  little  fitted  to  repel  them.  Even  the  connections 
of  a  nation  with  other  foreign  powers  may  enter  into  the  motives 
of  an  alliance  with  it.  If  a  dissolution  of  ancient  connections 
shall  have  been  a  consequence  of  a  revolution  of  government, 
the  external  political  relations  of  the  parties  may  have  become 
so  varied  as  to  occasion  an  incompatibility  of  the  alliance  with 
the  power,  which  had  changed  its  constitution  with  the  other 
connections  of  its  ally — connections  perhaps  essential  to  its 
welfare. 

In  such  cases,  reason,  which  is  the  touchstone  of  all  similar 
maxims,  would  dictate  that  the  party  whose  government  had 
remained  stationary,  would  have  a  right  under  a  bona  fide  convic- 
tion that  the  change  in  the  situation  of  the  other  party  would 
render  a  future  connection  detrimental  or  dangerous,  to  declare 
the  connection  dissolved. 


368  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

Contracts  between  nations  as  between  individuals,  must  lose 
their  force  where  the  considerations  fail. 

A  treaty  pernicious  to  the  state,  is  of  itself  void,  where  no 
change  in  the  situation  of  either  of  the  parties  takes  place.  By  a 
much  stronger  reason  it  must  become  voidable  at  the  option  of  the 
other  party,  when  the  voluntary  act  of  one  of  the  allies  has 
made  so  material  a  change  in  the  condition  of  things,  as  is  always 
implied  in  a  radical  revolution  of  government. 

Moreover,  the  maxim  in  question  must,  I  presume,  be  under- 
stood with  this  further  limitation — that  the  revolution  be  consum- 
mated— that  the  new  government  be  established,  and  recognized 
among  nations — that  there  be  an  undisputed  organ  of  the  national 
will  to  obtain  the  performance  of  the  stipulations  made  with  the 
former  government. 

It  is  not  natural  to  presume  that  an  ally  is  obliged  to  throw 
his  weight  into  either  scale,  where  the  war  involves  the  very 
point — what  shall  be  the  government  of  the  country  ;  and  that 
too  against  the  very  party  with  whom  the  formal  obligations  of 
the  alliance  have  been  contracted. 

It  is  more  natural  to  conclude  that  in  such  a  case,  the  ally 
ought  either  to  aid  the  party,  with  whom  the  contract  was  imme- 
diately made,  or  to  consider  the  operation  of  the  alliance  as  sus- 
pended. The  latter  is  undoubtedly  his  duty,  rather  than  the 
former,  where  the  nation  appears  to  have  pronounced  the  change. 

A  doctrine  contrary  to  that  here  supported  may  involve  an 
opposition  of  moral  duties,  and  dilemmas  of  a  very  singular  and 
embarrassing  kind. 

A  nation  may  owe  its  existence  or  preservation  entirely,  or 
in  a  great  degree,  to  the  voluntary  succors  which  it  derived  from 
a  monarch  of  a  country — the  then  lawful  organ  of  the  national 
will,  the  director  of  its  sword  and  its  purse,  the  dispenser  of  its 
aid  and  its  favors.  In  consideration  of  the  good  offices  promised 
or  afforded  by  him,  an  alliance  may  have  been  formed  between 
the  monarch,  his  heirs  and  successors,  and  the  country  indebted 
to  him  for  those  good  offices — stipulating  future  co-operation  and 
mutual  aid.  This  monarch,  without  any  particular  crime  on  his 
part,  may  be  afterwards  deposed  $nd  expelled  by  his  nation,  or 


JEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  369 

by  a  triumphant  faction,  which  may,  perhaps,  momentarily  direct 
the  nation's  voice.  He  may  find  in  the  assistance  of  neighboring 
powers  friendly  to  his  cause  the  means  of  endeavoring  to  rein- 
state himself. 

In  the  midst  of  his  efforts  to  accomplish  this  purpose,  the 
ruling  powers  of  the  nation,  over  which  he  had  reigned,  call  irpon 
the  country,  which  had  been  saved  by  his  friendship  and  patron- 
age, to  perform  the  stipulations  expressed  in  the  alliance  made 
with  him,  and  embark  in  a  war  against  their  friend  and  benefac- 
tor— on  the  suggestion,  that  the  treaty  being  a  real  one,  the 
actual  rulers  of  the  nation  have  a  right  to  claim  the  benefit  of  it. 

If  there  be  no  option  in  such  case,  would  there  not  be  a  most 
perplexing  conflict  of  opposite  obligations  ? — of  the  faith  sup- 
posed to  be  plighted  by  the  treaty,  and  of  justice  and  gratitude 
towards  a  man  from  whom  essential  benefits  had  been  received, 
and  who  could  oppose  the  formal  and  express  terms  of  the  con- 
tract to  an  abstract  theoretic  proposition?  Would  genuine 
honor,  would  true  morality  permit  the  taking  a  hostile  part 
against  the  friend  and  benefactor,  being  at  the  same  time  the 
original  party  to  the  contract  ? 

Suppose  the  call  of  the  actual  rulers  to  be  complied  with,  and 
the  war  to  have  been  entered  into  by  the  ally.  Suppose  the  ex- 
pelled monarch  to  have  re-entered  his  former  dominions,  and  to 
have  been  joined  by  one-half  of  his  former  subjects — how  would 
the  obligation  then  stand  ?  He  will  now  have  added  to  the  title 
of  being  the  formal  party  to  the  contract,  that  of  being  the  actual 
possessor  of  one  half  the  country  and  of  the  wishes  of  one  half 
the  nation. 

Is  it  supposable  that,  in  such  a  case,  the  obligations  of  the  al- 
liance can  continue  in  favor  of  those  by  whom  he  had  been 
expelled  ?  or  would  they  then  revert  again  to  the  monarch  ?  or 
would  they  fluctuate  with  the  alternations  of  good  and  ill 
fortune  attending  the  one  or  the  other  party  ?  Can  a  principle 
which  Avould  involve  such  a  dilemma  be  true  ?  Is  it  not  evident 
that  there  must  be  an  option  to  consider  the  operation  of  the  al- 
liance as  suspended  during  the  contest  concerning  the  govern- 
ment— that,  on  the  one  hand,  there  may  not  be  a  necessity  of 

D  24 


370  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  36. 

taking  part  with  the  expelled  monarch  against  the  apparent  will 
of  the  nation,  or,  on  the  other,  a  necessity  of  joining  the  ruling 
powers  of  the  moment  against  the  immediate  party  with  whom 
the  contract  was  made,  and  from  whom  the  consideration  may 
have  flowed  ? 

If  the  opinions  of  writers  be  consulted,  they  will,  as  far  as 
they  go,  confirm  the  sense  of  the  maxim  which  is  here  con- 
tended for. 

Grotius,  while  he  asserts  the  general  principle  of  the  obliga- 
tion of  real  treaties  upon  nations,  notwithstanding  the  changes  in 
their  governments,  admits  the  qualification  which  has  been  in- 
sisted upon,  and  expressly  excepts  the  case  where  it  appears  that 
the  motive  to  the  treaty  was  "  peculiar  to  the  form  of  govern- 
ment, as  when  free  states  enter  into  an  alliance  for  the  defence  of 
their  liberties."     Book  II.,  chap,  xvi.,  §  16,  No.  1. 

And  Vatel,  who  is  the  most  systematic  of  the  writers  on  the 
laws  of  nations,  lays  down  the  qualification  in  the  greatest  lati- 
tude. To  give  a  correct  idea  of  his  meaning,  it  will  be  of  use  to 
transcribe  the  entire  section,  with  its  marginal  note.  It  is  found 
Book  II.,  ch.  xii.,  §  197. 
" what  is  the  obii-  "The  same  question,"  says  he,  (to  wit,  that 

gation   of  a  real  alii-  .  •      \  t  ' j-      i i?  •  7     it 

ance,  when  the  king,    stated  m  the  margin,)  "presents  itseli  in  real  alli- 

who  is  the  ally,  is  driv-  ..  .  '  . 

en  from  the  throne  v  ances  made,  and  in  general  m  all  alliances  made 
with  the  state,  and  not  in  particular  with  a  king  for  the  defence 
of  his  person.  An  ally  ought  doubtless  to  be  defended  against 
every  invasion,  against  every  foreign  violence,  and  even  against 
his  rebellious  subjects ;  in  the  same  manner,  a  republic  ought  to 
be  defended  against  the  enterprises  of  one  who  attempts  to  de- 
stroy the  public  liberty.  But  it  ought  to  be  remembered  that 
an  ally  of  the  state  or  the  nation  is  not  its  judge.  If  the  nation 
has  deposed  its  king  in  form,  if  the  people  of  a  republic  have 
driven  out  their  magistrates  and  set  themselves  at  liberty,  or 
acknowledged  the  authority  of  an  usurper,  either  expressly  or 
tacitly ;  to  oppose  these  domestic  regulations  by  disputing  their 
justice  or  validity,  would  be  to  interfere  with  the  government  of 
a  nation,  and  do  it  an  injury.  The  ally  remains  the  ally  of  the 
state,   notwithstanding  the  change   which  has  happened  in  it. 


jEt.36.]  cabinet   papers.  871 

However,  when  this  change  renders  the  alliance  useless,  danger- 
ous, or  disagreeable,  it  may  renounce  it ;  for  it  may  say,  upon  a 
good  foundation,  that  it  would  not  have  entered  into  an  alliance 
with  that  nation  had  it  been  under  the  present  form  of  govern- 
ment." 

It  is  not  perceived  that  there  is  any  ambiguity  of  expression, 
or  any  other  circumstance,  to  throw  the  least  obscurity  upon  the 
sense  of  the  author.  The  precise  question  he  raises  is,  What  is 
the  obligation  of  a  real  alliance,  when  the  king,  who  is  the  ally, 
is  driven  from  the  throne  ?  He  concludes,  after  several  interme- 
diate observations,  that  the  ally  remains  the  ally  of  the  State,  not- 
withstanding the  change  which  has  happened.  Nevertheless, 
says  he,  when  the  change  renders  the  alliance  useless,  dangerous, 
or  disagreeable,  it  may  be  renounced. 

It  is  observable,  that  the  question  made  by  writers  always  is, 
whether,  in  a  real  alliance,  when  the  king  who  is  the  ally  is  de- 
posed, the  ally  of  the  deposed  king  is  bound  to  succor  and  sup- 
port him.  And  though  it  is  decided  by  the  better  opinions,  as 
well  as  by  the  reason  of  the  thing,  that  there  is  not  an  obligation 
to  support  him  against  the  will  of  the  nation,  when  his  dethrone- 
ment is  to  be  ascribed  to  that  source,  yet  there  is  never  a  single 
suggestion,  on  the  other  hand,  of  the  ally  of  such  dethroned 
king  being  obliged  to  assist  his  nation  against  him.  The  most 
that  appears  to  be  admitted  in  favor  of  the  decision  of  the  nation 
is,  that  there  is  no  support  due  to  the  dethroned  prince. 

Puffendorf  puts  this  matter  upon  very  proper  grounds.  Re- 
ferring to  the  opinion  of  Grotius,  who  with  too  much  latitude 
lays  it  down,  "  that  a  league  made  with  a  king  is  valid,  though 
that  king  or  his  successors  be  expelled  the  kingdom  by  his  sub- 
jects ;  for  though  he  has  lost  his  possession,  the  right  to  the  crown 
still  remains  in  him,"  he  makes  the  following  observation :  "To 
me,  so  much  in  this  case  seems  to  be  certain,  that  if  the  terms  of 
the  league  expressly  mention  and  intend  the  defence  of  the  prince's 
person  and  family,  he  ought  to  be  assisted  in  the  recovery  of  his 
kingdom.  But  if  the  league  was  formed  for  public  good  only,  'tis 
a  disputable  point  whether  the  exiled  prince  can  demand  assist- 
ance in  virtue  of  his  league.     For  the  aids  mentioned  are  presumed 


372  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  36. 

to  have  been  promised  against  foreign  enemies,  iciiliout  view  of  this 
particular  case.  Not  but  that  still  such  a  league  leaves  liberty  to 
assist  a  lawful  prince  against  an  usurper." 

The  presumption  here  stated  is  a  natural  and  proper  one,  and 
in  its  reason  applies  to  both  sides — to  the  exiled  prince,  who 
should  demand  succors  against  his  nation,  and  to  the  nation,  who 
having  dethroned  its  prince,  should  demand  succor  to  support 
the  act  of  dethronement  and  establish  the  revolution.  The  ally 
in  such  case  is  not  bound  to  come  in  aid  of  either  party,  but  may 
consider  the  operation  of  the  alliance  as  suspended  till  the  com- 
petition about  the  government  is  decided. 

What  a  difference  is  there  between  asserting  it  to  be  a  dispu- 
table point,  whether  the  ally  of  a  dethroned  prince,  in  the  case  of 
a  real  treaty,  is  not  bound  to  assist  him  against  the  nation,  and 
maintaining  that  the  ally  is  bound  at  all  events  to  assist  the  na- 
tion against  him !  For  this  is  the  consequence  of  asserting  that 
such  a  treaty  ipso  facto  attaches  itself  to  the  body  of  the  nation, 
even  in  the  course  of  a  pending  revolution,  and  without  option 
either  to  suspend  or  renounce. 

If  the  practice  of  nations  be  consulted,  neither  will  that  be 
found  to  confirm  the  proposition,  that  the  obligation  of  real 
treaties  extends  unconditionally  to  the  actual  governors  of  nations, 
•whatever  changes  take  place.  In  the  books  which  treat  on  the 
subject,  numerous  examples  of  the  contrary  are  quoted.  The 
most  prevailing  practice  has  been  to  assist  the  ancient  sovereign. 
:In  the  very  instance  to  which  this  discussion  relates,  this  is  the 
course  which  a  great  part  of  Europe  directly  or  indirectly  pur- 
.  sues. 

It  may  be  argued  by  way  of  objection  to  what  has  been  said, 
that  admitting  the  general  principle  of  a  right  for  sufficient  cause 
to  renounce ;  yet  still,  as  the  change  in  the  present  case  is  from  a 
monarchy  to  a  republic,  and  no  sufficient  excuse  hitherto  exists 
for  a  renunciation,  the  possibility  of  its  arising  hereafter  in  the 
progress  of  events,  does  not  appear  a  valid  reason  for  resorting 
to  the  principle  in  question.  To  this  the  answer  is,  that  no  gov- 
ernment has  yet  been  instituted  in  France  in  lieu  of  that  which 
has  been  pulled  down.    That  the  existing  political  powers  are,  by 


jEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  373 

the  French  themselves,  denominated  provisional,  and  are  to  give 
way  to  a  constitution  to  be  established. 

It  is  therefore  impossible  to  foresee  what  the  future  govern- 
ment of  France  will  be ;  and  in  this  state  of  uncertainty,  the 
right  to  renounce,  resolves  itself  into,  of  course,  a  right  to  suspend. 
The  one  is  a  consequence  of  the  other ;  applicable  to  the  unde- 
termined state  of  things.  If  there  be  a  right  to  renounce  when 
the  change  of  government  proves  to  be  of  a  nature  to  render  an 
alliance  useless  or  injurious,  there  must  be  a  right  amidst  a  pend- 
ing revolution,  to  wait  to  see  what  change  will  take  place. 

Should  it  be  said,  that  the  treaty  is  binding  now,  no  objec- 
tionable change  having  yet  taken  place,  but  may  be  renounced 
hereafter,  if  any  such  change  shall  take  place: 

The  answer  is,  that  it  is  not  possible  to  pronounce  at  present 
what  is  the  quality  of  the  change.  Every  thing  is  in  transitu. 
This  state  of  suspense,  as  to  the  object  of  option,  naturally  sus- 
pends the  option  itself.  The  business  may,  in  its  progress, 
assume  a  variety  of  forms.  If  the  issue  may  not  be  waited  for, 
the  obligations  of  the  country  may  fluctuate  indefinitely — be  one 
thing  to-day,  another  to-morrow ;  a  consequence  which  is  inad- 
missible. 

Besides,  the  true  reasoning  would  seem  to  be,  that  to  admit 
the  operation  of  the  treaties,  while  the  event  is  pending,  would 
be  to  take  the  chance  of  what  that  event  shall  be,  and  would 
preclude  a  future  renunciation. 

Moreover,  the  right  to  consider  the  operation  of  the  treaties 
as  suspended,  results  from  this  farther  consideration,  that  during 
a  pending  revolution,  an  ally  in  a  real  treaty  is  not  bound  to  pro- 
nounce between  the  competitors. 

The  conclusion  from  the  whole  is,  that  there  is  an  option  in 
the  United  States  to  hold  the  operation  of  the  treaties  suspended ; 
and  that  in  the  event,  if  the  form  of  government  established  in 
France  shall  be  such  as  to  render  a  continuance  of  the  treaties 
contrary  to  the  interest  of  the  United  States,  they  may  be  re- 
nounced. 

If  there  be  such  an  option,  there  are  strong  reasons  to  show 
that  the  character  and  interests  of  the  United  States  require,  that 


374  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [J&t.  36 


they  should  pursue  the  course  of  holding  the  operation  of  the 
treaties  suspended. 

Their  character : 

Because  it  was  from  Louis  XVL,  the  then  sovereign  of 
the  country,  that  they  received  those  succors  which  were  so  im- 
portant in  the  establishment  of  their  independence  and  liberty. 
It  was  with  him,  his  heirs,  and  successors,  that  they  contracted 
their  engagements — by  which  they  obtained  those  precious 
succors. 

It  is  enough,  on  their  part,  to  respect  the  right  of  the  nation 
to  change  its  government,  so  far  as  not  to  side  with  the  succes- 
sors of  the  dethroned  prince ;  as  to  receive  their  ambassador, 
and  keep  up  an  amicable  intercourse ;  as  to  be  willing  to  render 
every  good  office,  not  contrary  to  the  duties  of  a  real  neutrality. 

To  throw  their  weight  into  the  scale  of  the  new  government, 
would,  it  is  to  be  feared,  be  considered  by  mankind  as  not  con- 
sistent with  a  decent  regard  to  the  relations  which  subsisted  be- 
tween them  and  Louis  XYI. ;  as  not  consistent  with  a  due  sense 
of  the  services  they  received  from  that  unfortunate  prince ;  as 
not  consistent  with  national  delicacy  and  decorum. 

The  character  of  the  United  States  may  also  be  concerned  in 
keeping  clear  of  any  connection  with  the  present  government  of 
France,  in  other  views. 

A  struggle  for  liberty  is  in  itself  respectable  and  glorious ; 
when  conducted  with  magnanimity,  justice,  and  humanity,  it 
ought  to  command  the  admiration  of  every  friend  to  human 
nature ;  but  if  sullied  by  crimes  and  extravagancies,  it  loses  its 
respectability.  Though  success  may  rescue  it  from  infamy,  it 
cannot,  in  the  opinion  of  the  sober  part  of  mankind,  attach  to  it 
much  positive  merit  or  praise.  But  in  the  event  of  a  want  of 
success,  a  general  execration  must  attend  it. 

It  appears,  thus  far,  but  too  probable,  that  the  pending  revo- 
lution of  France  has  sustained  some  serious  blemishes.  There  is 
too  much  ground  to  anticipate,  that  a  sentence  uncommonly 
severe  will  be  passed  upon  it  if  it  fails. 

"Will  it  be  well  for  the  United  States  to  expose  their  reputa- 
tion to  the  issue,  by  implicating  themselves  as  associates  ?     Will 


^Et.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  375 

tlieir  reputation  be  promoted  by  a  successful  issue  ?  "What  will 
it  suffer  by  the  reverse  ? 

These  questions  suggest  very  serious  considerations  to  a 
mind  anxious  for  the  reputation  of  the  country — anxious  that 
it  may  emulate  a  character  of  sobriety,  moderation,  justice,  and 
love  of  order. 

The  interest  of  the  United  States  seems  to  dictate  the  course 
recommended,  in  many  ways  : 

I.  In  reference  to  their  character,  from  the  considerations 
already  stated. 

II.  In  reference  to  their  peace. 

As  the  present  treaties  contain  stipulations  of  military  suc- 
cors and  military  aids,  in  certain  cases  which  are  likely  to  occur, 
there  can  be  no  doubt,  that  if  there  be  an  option  to  consider 
them  as  not  binding,  as  not  in  operation,  the  considering  them 
as  binding,  as  in  operation,  would  be  equivalent  to  making  new 
treaties  of  similar  import;  and  it  is  a  well  settled  point,  that 
such  stipulations  entered  into,  pending  a  war,  or  with  a  view  to 
a  war,  is  a  departure  from  neutrality. 

How  far  the  parties  opposed  to  France  may  think  fit  to  treat 
us  as  enemies,  in  consequence  of  this,  is  a  problem  which  experi- 
ence only  can  solve ;  the  solution  of  which  will  probably  be 
regulated  by  their  views  of  their  own  interest — by  the  circum- 
stances which  may  occur;  and  it  is  far  from  impossible  that 
these  will  restrain  them,  so  long  as  we,  in  fact,  take  no  active 
part  in  favor  of  France. 

But  if  there  be  an  option  to  avoid  it,  it  can  hardly  be  wise  to 
incur  so  great  an  additional  risk  and  embarrassment,  to  impli- 
cate ourselves  in  the  perplexities  which  may  follow. 

With  regard  to  the  good  effect  of  the  conduct  which  is 
advocated  upon  the  powers  at  war  with  France,  nothing  need  be 
said. 

Even  considering  our  interest  with  reference  to  France  her- 
self, some  reasons  may  be  urged  in  favor  of  considering  the 
treaties  as  suspended. 

It  seems  to  be  the  general,  if  not  the  universal  sentiment, 
that  we  ought  not  to  embark  in  the  war. 


376  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  36. 

Suppose  the  French  islands  attacked,  and  we  called  upon  to 
perform  the  guarantee.  To  avoid  complying  with  it,  we  must 
either  say :  That  the  war  being  offensive  on  the  part  of  France, 
the  casus  foederis  does  not  exist;  or,  that  as  our  co-operation 
would  be  useless  to  the  object  of  the  guarantee,  and  attended 
with  more  than  ordinary  danger  to  ourselves,  we  cannot  af- 
ford it. 

Would  the  one  or  the  other  be  satisfactory  to  France  ? 

The  first  would  probably  displease — the  last  would  not  please. 
It  is,  moreover,  the  most  questionable  and  the  least  reputable  of 
all  the  objections,  which  a  nation  is  allowed  to  oppose  to  the  per- 
formance of  its  engagements.  We  should  not  therefore  be  much 
more  certain  of  avoiding  the  displeasure  of  the  present  ruling 
powers  of  France,  by  considering  the  treaties  as  in  operation, 
than  by  considering  their  operation  as  suspended  ;  taking  it  for 
granted  that  we  are  in  either  case  to  observe  a  neutral  conduct 
in  fact 

But  suppose  the  contest  unsuccessful  on  the  part  of  the  pre- 
sent governing  powers  of  France,  what  would  then  he  our  situa- 
tion with  the  future  government  of  that  country  ? 

Should  we  not  be  branded  and  detested  by  it  as  the  worst  of 
ingrates  ? 

When  it  is  added,  that  the  restoration  of  the  monarchy 
would  be  very  naturally  attributed  to  the  interposition  of  Great 
Britain — the  reflection  just  suggested  acquires  peculiar  weight 
and  importance. 

But  against  this  may  be  placed  the  consideration,  that  in  the 
event  of  the  success  of  the  present  governing  powers,  we  should 
stand  on  much  worse  ground,  by  having  considered  the  opera- 
tion of  the  treaties  as  suspended,  than  by  having  pursued  a  con- 
trarv  conduct. 

This  is  not  clear,  for  the  reasons  just  given ;  unless  we  are 
also  willing,  if  called  upon,  to  become  parties  in  the  war.  But 
admitting  that  the  course  of  considering  the  treaties  as  in  pre- 
sent operation,  would  give  us  a  claim  of  merit  with  France,  in 
the  event  of  the  establishment  of  the  republic;  our  affairs  with 
that  country  would  not  stand  so  much  the  better  on  this  account,  as 


Mt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  377 

they  would  stand  worse  for  giving  operation  to  the  treaties,  should 
the  monarchy  be  restored. 

We  should  still  have  to  offer  a  better  claim  to  the  friendship 
of  France  than  any  other  power — the  not  taking  side  with  her 
enemies,  the  early  acknowledgment  of  the  republic  by  the  re- 
ception of  its  minister,  and  such  good  offices  as  have  been  and 
may  be  rendered,  consistently  with  a  sincere  neutrality. 

The  reasons,  too,  which  induced  us  not  to  go  farther,  will 
have  their  due  weight  in  times  that  shall  restore  tranquillity  and 
moderation  and  sober  reflection!  They  will  justify  us  even  to 
France  herself. 

Is  there  not,  however,  danger  that  a  refusal  to  admit  the 
operation  of  the  treaties  might  occasion  an  immediate  rupture 
with  France  ? 

A  danger  of  this  sort  cannot  be  supposed,  without  supposing 
such  a  degree  of  intemperance  on  the  part  of  France  as  will 
finally  force  us  to  quarrel  with  her  or  to  embark  with  her.  And 
if  such  be  her  temper,  a  fair  calculation  of  hazards  will  lead  us  to 
risk  her  displeasure  in  the  first  instance.  An  inquiry  naturally 
arises  of  this  kind :  Whether  from  the  nature  of  the  treaties, 
they  have  any  such  intrinsic  value,  as  to  render  it  inexpedient 
to  put  them  in  jeopardy,  by  raising  a  question  about  their  oper- 
ation or  validity? 

Here,  it  may  freely  be  pronounced,  there  is  no  difficulty.  The 
military  stipulations  they  contain,  are  contrary  to  that  neutrality 
in  the  quarrels  of  Europe,  which  it  is  our  true  policy  to  cultivate 
and  maintain.  And  the  commercial  stipulations  to  be  found  in 
them  present  no  peculiar  advantages. 

They  seem  to  us  nothing  or  scarcely  any  thing  which  an  in- 
evitable course  of  circumstances  would  not  produce.  It  would 
be  our  interest,  in  the  abstract,  to  be  disengaged  from  them,  and 
take  the  chance  of  future  negotiation,  for  a  better  treaty  of  com- 
merce. 

It  might  be  observed  by  way  of  objection  to  what  has  been 
said,  that  an  admission  of  the  operation  of  the  treaties,  has  been 
considered  as  equivalent  to  taking  part  with  France. 

It  is  true  that  the  two  things  have  been  considered  as  equiva- 


378  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  36. 

lent  to  each  other,  and  in  strict  reasoning  this  ought  to  be  the 
case. — Because, 

1.  If  there  be  an  option,  the  effect  of  not  using  it  would  be 
to  pass  from  a  state  of  neutrality  to  that  of  being  an  ally — thereby 
authorizing  the  powers  at  war  with  France  to  treat  us  as  an 
enemy. 

2.  If  under  the  operation  of  the  treaties  we  are  not  bound  to 
embark  in  the  war,  it  must  be  owing  either  to  casualty  or 
inability. 

If  the  war  is  not  offensive  on  the  part  of  France,  an  attack  on 
the  West  India  Islands  would  leave  us  no  escape,  but  in  the  plea 
of  inability. 

The  putting  ourselves  in  a  situation,  in  which  it  might  so  hap- 
pen, that  we  could  preserve  our  neutrality  under  no  other  plea 
than  that  of  inability,  is,  in  all  the  political  legal  relations  of  the 
subject,  to  make  ourselves  a  party.  In  other  words,  the  placing 
ourselves  in  a  position,  in  which  it  would  depend  on  casualty 
whether  it  would  not  become  our  duty  to  engage  in  the  war, 
ought,  in  a  general  question  of  establishing  or  recognizing  a 
political  relation  with  a  foreign  power  embarked  in  war,  to  be 
regarded  in  the  same  light  as  the  taking  part  with  that  power  in 
the  war. 

To  do  a  thing,  or  to  contract  or  incur  an  obligation  of  doing 
it,  are  not  in  such  a  question  materially  different. 

There  remain  some  miscellaneous  views  of  the  subject,  which 
will  serve  to  fortify  the  general  reasoning. 

I.  The  conduct  of  the  present  government  of  France  gives  a 
sanction  to  other  nations  to  use  some  latitude  of  discretion  in 
respect  to  their  treaties  with  the  former  government.  That  gov- 
ernment, it  is  understood,  has  formally  declared  null  various 
stipulations  of  the  ancient  government  with  foreign  powers,  on 
the  principle  of  their  inapplicability  to  the  new  order  of  things. 
Were  it  to  be  urged,  that  an  erroneous  conduct  on  the  part  of 
France  will  not  justify  a  like  conduct  on  our  part,  it  might  be 
solidly  replied,  that  a  rule  of  practice  formally  adopted  by  any 
nation  for  regulating  its  political  obligations  towards  other  nations, 
may  justly  be  appealed  to  as  a  standard  for  regulating  the  obliga- 


;Et.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  379 

tions  of  those  nations  towards  her.  Suppose  this  general  ground 
to  have  been  explicitly  taken  by  France,  that  all  treaties  made  by 
the  old  government  became  void  by  the  Revolution,  unless 
recognized  by  the  existing  authority — can  it  be  doubted  that 
every  other  nation  would  have  had  a  right  to  adopt  the  same 
principle  of  conduct  towards  France  ?  It  cannot.  By  parity  of 
reasoning,  as  far  as  France  may  in  practice  have  pursued  that 
principle,  other  nations  may  justifiably  plead  the  example. 

II.  In  addition  to  the  embarrassments  heretofore  suggested, 
as  incident  to  the  admission  of  the  present  operation  of  the 
treaties,  this  very  particular  one  may  attend  our  case.  An 
island  may  be  taken  by  Great  Britain,  or  Holland,  with  the 
avowed  intention  of  holding  it  for  the  future  king  of  France,  the 
successor  of  Louis  XYI.  Can  it  be  possible  that  a  treaty  made 
with  Louis  XYI.  should  oblige  us  to  embark  in  the  war  to  rescue 
a  part  of  his  dominions  from  his  immediate  successor  ?  Under 
all  the  circumstances  of  the  case  would  the  national  integrity  or 
delicacy  permit  it  ?  Was  it  clear  that  Louis  merited  his  death  as 
a  perfidious  tyrant,  the  last  question  might  receive  a  different 
answer,  from  what  can  now  be  given  to  it ! 

Ought  the  United  States  to  involve  themselves  in  a  dilemma 
of  this  kind  ? 

III.  In  national  questions,  the  general  conduct  of  nations  has 
great  weight.  When  all  Europe  is,  or  is  likely  to  be,  armed  in 
opposition  to  the  authority  of  the  present  government  of  France, 
would  it  not  be  to  carry  theory  to  an  extreme,  to  pronounce 
that  the  United  States  are  under  an  absolute  indispensable  obliga- 
tion, not  only  to  acknowledge  respectfully  the  authority  of  that 
government,  but  to  admit  the  immediate  operation  of  treaties, 
which  would  constitute  them  at  once  its  ally  ? 

IV.  Prudence,  at  least,  seems  to  dictate  the  course  of  reserving 
the  question,  in  order  that  further  reflection  and  a  more  complete 
development  of  circumstances  shall  enable  us  to  make  a  decision 
both  right  and  safe.  It  does  not  appear  necessary  to  precipitate 
the  fixing  of  our  relations  to  France  beyond  the  possibility  of 
retraction.     It  is  putting  too  suddenly  too  much  to  hazard. 

It  may  be  asked — Does  not  an  unqualified  reception  of  the 
minister  determine  the  point  ? 


380  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

Perhaps  it  does  not;  yet  there  is  no  satisfactory  guide  by 
•which  to  decide  the  precise  import  and  extent  of  such  a  reception 
by  which  to  pronounce  that  it  would  not  conclude  us  as  to  the 
treaties.  There  is  great  room  to  consider  the  epoch  of  receiving 
a  minister  from  the  republic  as  that  ivhen  we  ought  to  explain 
ourselves  on  the  point  in  question — and  silence,  at  that  time,  as 
a  waiver  of  our  option. 

It  is  probable  that  on  the  part  of  France  it  will  be  urged  to 
have  this  effect ;  and  if  it  should  be  truly  so  considered  by  her, 
to  raise  the  question  afterwards  would  lead  to  complaint,  accusa- 
tion, ill  humor. 

It  seems  most  candid  and  most  safe  to  anticipate — not  to  risk 
the  imputation  of  inconsistency.  It  seems  advisable  to  be  able 
to  say  to  foreign  powers,  if  questioned,  "  In  receiving  the  min- 
ister of  France,  we  have  not  acknowledged  ourself  its  ally.  We 
have  reserved  the  point  for  future  consideration." 

It  may  be  asked,  whether  the  reception,  at  any  rate,  is  not 
inconsistent  with  the  reservation  recommended. 

It  does  not  appear  to  be  so.  The  acknowledgment  of  a  govern- 
ment by  the  reception  of  its  ambassador,  and  the  acknowledg- 
ment of  it  as  an  ally,  are  things  different  and  separable  from  each 
other.  However  the  first,  where  a  connection  before  existed 
between  the  two  nations,  may  imply  the  last,  if  nothing  is  said, 
this  implication  may  clearly  be  repelled,  by  a  declaration  that  it 
is  not  the  intention  of  the  party.  Such  a  declaration  would  be 
in  the  nature  of  a  protest  against  the  implication ;  and  the  de- 
clared intent  would  govern.  It  is  a  rule  that  "  expressum  facit 
cessare  taciturn." 

It  may  likewise  be  asked,  whether  we  are  not  too  late  for  the 
ground  proposed  to  be  taken — whether  the  payments  on  account 
of  the  debt  to  France,  subsequent  to  the  last  change,  be  not  an 
acknowledgment  that  all  engagements  to  the  former  government 
are  to  be  fulfilled  to  the  present. 

The  two  objects  of  a  debt  in  money,  and  a  treaty  of  alliance, 
have  no  necessary  connection.  They  are  governed  by  considera- 
tions altogether  different  and  irrelative. 

The  payment  of  a  debt  is  a  matter  of  perfect  and  strict  obli- 


Mt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  381 

gation.  It  must  be  done  at  all  events.  It  is  to  be  regulated  by 
circumstances  of  time  and  place,  and  ought  to  be  done  with  pre- 
cise punctuality. 

In  the  case  of  a  nation,  whoever  acquires  possession  of  its 
political  power,  whoever  becomes  master  of  its  goods,  of  the 
national  property,  must  pay  all  the  debts  which  the  government 
of  the  nation  has  contracted. 

In  like  manner,  on  the  principle  of  reciprocity,  the  sovereign 
in  possession  is  to  receive  the  debts  due  to  the  government  of 
the  nation.  These  debts  are  at  all  events  to  be  paid ;  and  posses- 
sion alone  can  guide  as  to  the  party  to  whom  they  are  to  be  paid. 

Questions  of  property  are  very  different  from  those  of  political 
connection. 

Nobody  can  doubt  that  the  debt  due  to  France  is  at  all  events 
to  be  paid,  whatever  form  of  government  may  take  place  in  that 
country. 

As  little  is  it  to  be  doubted,  that  it  is  possible  for  a  form  of 
government  to  take  place  in  France,  justifying  the  dissolution  of 
a  political  connection  which  before  subsisted  with  that  country. 

Treaties  between  nations  are  capable  of  being  affected  by  a 
great  variety  of  considerations,  casualties  and  contingencies. 
Forms  of  government,  it  is  evident,  may  be  the  considerations 
of  them.  Revolutions  of  government,  by  changing  those  forms, 
may  consequently  vary  the  obligations  of  parties. 

Hence  the  payment  of  a  debt  to  the  sovereign  in  possession  does 
not  imply  an  admission  of  the  present  operation  of  political  trea- 
ties. It  may  so  happen,  that  there  is  a  strict  obligation  to  pay 
the  debt,  and  a  perfect  right  to  withdraw  from  the  treaties. 

And  while  we  are  not  bound  to  expose  ourselves  to  the  re- 
sentment of  the  governing  power  of  France  by  refusing  to  pay  a 
debt  at  the  time  and  place  stipulated ;  so  neither  are  we  bound, 
pending  a  contested  revolution  of  government,  to  expose  our- 
selves to  the  resentment  of  other  nations,  by  declaring  ourselves 
the  ally  of  that  power,  in  virtue  of  treaties  contracted  with  a 
former  sovereign,  who  still  pursues  his  claim  to  govern,  support- 
ed by  the  general  sense  and  arm  of  Europe. 

Alexander  Hamilton. 


382  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  36. 


TERNANT  TO  HAMILTON. 

Philadelphie,  30  Avril,  1793. 

Le  Ministre  plenipe  sousigne  prie  le  Secretaire  de  la  Tresoire 

des  Etats  Unis,  de  vouloir  lui  faire  payer  le  somme  de  vingt 

mille  livres  tournois,  a  compte  de  la  debte  des  dits  Etats  envers 

la  France,  ainsi  qu'il  a  6t6  precedemment  arrete  par  le  President. 

Ternant. 

L'an  2  de  la  Republique  Francoise. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

May  2,  1793. 

Answers  to  remaining  questions  proposed  by  the  President  of  the 
United  States  on  the  18th  of  April  last. 

Question  4. — Are  the  United  States  obliged  by  good  faith 
to  consider  the  treaties  heretofore  made  with  France  as  applying 
to  the  present  situation  of  the  parties  ?  May  they  either  re- 
nounce them  or  hold  them  suspended  till  the  government  of 
France  shall  be  established  ? 

Answer. — The  war  is  plainly  an  offensive  war  on  the  part  of 
France.  Burhmaqui,  an  approved  writer,  Yol.  II.,  part  iv., 
chapter  iii.,  sec.  4  and  5,  thus  defines  the  different  species  of 
war:  "Neither  are  we  to  believe  (says  he)  that  he  who  first  in- 
jures another  begins  by  that  an  offensive  war,  and  that  the  other, 
who  demands  satisfaction  for  the  injury  received,  is  always  upon  the 
defensive.  There  are  a  great  many  unjust  acts  ivhich  may  kindle  a 
ivar,  and  which,  however,  are  not  the  war,  as  the  ill  treatment  of  a 
prince's  ambassador,  the  plundering  of  his  subjects,  &c. 

"  If,  therefore,  we  take  up  arms  to  revenge  such  an  unjust 
act,  we  commence  an  offensive  but  a  just  war;  and  the  prince 
who  has  done  the  injury,  and  will  not  give  satisfaction,  makes  a 


jEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  383 

defensive  but  an  unjust  war.  An  offensive  war  is,  therefore,  un- 
just only  when  it  is  undertaken  without  a  lawful  cause ;  and  then 
the  defensive  war,  which  on  other  occasions  might  be  unjust,  be- 
comes just. 

"  We  must,  therefore,  affirm  in  general,  that  the  first  who  takes  up 
arms,  whether  justly  or  unjustly,  commences  an  offensive  war  ;  and  he 
who  opposes  him,  whether  with  or  without  reason,  begins  a  defensive 
war.^ 

This  definition  of  offensive  and  defensive  war  is  conformable  to 
the  ideas  of  writers  on  the  laws  of  nations  in  general,  and  is 
adopted  almost  verbatim  by  Barbeyrac,  in  his  Notes  on  III.  and 
IV,  of  Book  VII.  chap.  vi.  of  Puffendorf's  "Law  of  Nature  and 
Nations." 

France,  it  is  certain,  was  the  first  to  declare  war  against  every 
one  of  the  powers  with  which  she  is  at  war.  Whether  she  had 
good  cause  or  not,  therefore,  in  each  instance,  the  war  is  com- 
pletely offensive  on  her  part. 

The  forms  which  she  has  employed  in  some  of  her  declara- 
tions (when,  after  reciting  the  aggressions  she  alleges  to  have 
been  committed  against  her  by  a  particular  power,  she  proceeds 
to  pronounce  that  war  exists  between  her  and  such  power)  can- 
not alter  the  substance  of  the  thing.  The  aggressions  complained 
of,  if  ever  so  well  founded,  and  however  they  may  have  been  of 
a  nature  to  kindle  the  war,  were  not  the  war  itself  The  war  began, 
in  each  case,  by  the  declaration  and  by  the  commencement  of 
hostilities  on  the  part  of  France.  It  was,  therefore,  clearly 
offensive  on  her  part. 

With  regard  to  the  causes  that  led  to  the  war  in  each  case,  it 
requires  more  exact  information  than  I  have  to  pronounce  upon 
them  with  confidence.  As  regards  Austria  and  Prussia,  the  sug- 
gestion on  one  hand  is,  that  a  combination  was  formed  to  over- 
throw the  new  constitution  of  France,  and  that  the  declaration 
on  the  part  of  the  latter  country  was  only  an  anticipation  of 
what  would  soon  have  proceeded  from  the  confederated  powers. 
On  the  other  hand,  it  is  affirmed  that  the  preparations  and  ar- 
rangements on  their  part  were  merely  provisional  and  eventual, 
aad  that  the  republican  party  in  France  precipitated  a  war  under 


384  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

the  idea  that  it  would  furnish  opportunities  for  accusing  and 
criminating  the  king's  administration,  and  finally  overthrow  the 
royalty.  Waiving  all  definitive  opinion  on  this  point,  better 
guides  will  enable  us  to  pronounce  with  more  certainty  in  the 
other  cases. 

In  respect  to  Holland,  there  seems  to  be  no  doubt  that  the 
aggression  began  with  France. 

France,  in  different  treaties,  had  recognized  a  right  in  the 
Dutch  to  the  exclusive  navigation  of  the  river  Scheldt. 

It  appears  that  she  had  a  leading  agency  in  adjusting  a  con- 
troversy on  this  point,  between  the  late  Emperor  Joseph  and  the 
Netherlands. 

The  28th  article  of  a  treaty  between  those  parties,  concluded 
at  Fontainebleau  the  8th  of  November,  1785,  is  in  these  words : 

"His  most  Christian  Majesty  contributed  to  the  completion 
of  the  arrangement  made  between  the  high  contracting  parties, 
(namely,  the  Emperor  and  the  States  General,)  by  his  friendly  in- 
tervention and  his  effectual  and  just  mediation.  His  said  Majesty  is 
requested  by  the  high  contracting  parties,  to  charge  himself  like- 
wise with  being  the  guarantee  of  the  present  treaty." 

Nevertheless,  the  provisionary  Executive  Council,  by  a  de- 
cree of  the  16th  of  November,  1792,  break  through  all  these 
formal  and  express  engagements,  on  the  pretext  of  their  being 
contrary  to  natural  right,  and  declare  the  navigation  of  the 
Scheldt  and  Meuse/ree. 

Such  an  infraction  of  treaties,  on  such  a  ground,  cannot  be 
justified  without  subverting  all  the  foundations  of  positive  and 
pactitious  right  among  nations.  It  is  equally  agreeable  to  the 
doctrine  of  theorists,  and  to  the  practice  of  nations,  that  rights 
to  the  common  use  of  waters  of  the  description  in  question,  may 
be  relinquished  and  qualified  by  treaty.  To  resume  them,  there- 
fore, on  the  ground  of  the  imprescriptibility,  as  it  is  called,  of  na- 
tural rights,  is  to  set  up  a  new  rule  of  conduct,  contrary  to  the 
common  sense  and  common  practice  of  mankind,  amounting  in 
the  party  which  attempts  the  resumption,  to  an  unequivocal  in- 
jury to  the  party  against  which  it  is  attempted. 

In  respect  to  Great  Britain  the  case  is  not  equally  clear ;  but 


jEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  385 

there  is  sufficient  ground  to  pronounce,  that  she  had  cause  of 
complaint,  prior  to  any  given  on  her  part. 

It  is  known  that  in  the  early  periods  of  the  French  revolu- 
tion, she  adopted  the  ground  of  neutrality,  and  nothing  is  alleged 
against  her  till  after  the  10th  of  August. 

That  event  led  her  to  withdraw  her  minister  from  the  Court 
of  France :  but  before  his  departure,  he  left  a  note  declarative  of 
the  intention  of  Great  Britain  to  pursue  still  a  pacific  course  ;  ac- 
companied, indeed,  with  a  cautious  intimation  that  personal  vio- 
lence to  the  king  would  excite  the  general  indignation  of 
Europe. 

Bat  it  will  hardly  be  affirmed  that  this  procedure  amounted 
to  an  aggression.  To  recall  a  minister  from,  or  not  to  keep  one 
at  any  court,  is  of  itself  an  act  of  indifference.  The  recall,  under 
such  circumstances  as  took  place  on  the  10th  of  August,  was  not 
an  extraordinary  step.  Every  government  had  a  right  to  deli- 
berate, and  was  bound  for  its  own  safety  to  consider  well,  when 
it  would  recognize  a  new  order  of  things.  The  keeping  of  a 
minister  at  France,  after  the  deposition  of  the  king,  might  be 
deemed  a  sanction  of  the  change,  and,  indeed,  was  useless,  until 
it  was  intended  to  give  that  sanction. 

It  was  not  therefore  incumbent  upon  any  power  to  pursue 
this  course,  especially  one  which  was  not  in  the  condition  of 
an  ally. 

The  intimation  with  regard  to  the  king  to  characterize  it  in 
the  most  exceptionable  light,  was  at  most  an  act  of  officiousness. 
Eelating  to  a  thing  not  at  the  time  in  agitation,  it  could  only  be 
considered  as  a  caution  to  avoid  a  measure  which  might  beget 
misunderstanding. 

The  conduct  of  France  shows  that  she  did  not  at  the  time 
consider  this  step  as  an  injury;  for  she  continued  a  minister  at 
the  court  of  London,  and  continued  to  negotiate. 

The  next  step  of  Great  Britain  in  order  of  time,  which  is 
complained  of  by  France,  and  the  first  of  a  really  hostile  com- 
plexion, is  the  restriction  on  the  exportation  of  corn  to  France, 
by  way  of  exception  to  a  general  permission  to  export  that 
article. 

D  25 


386  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^Et.  36. 

This  was  an  unfriendly  measure.  It  happened,  as  far  as  I 
am  able  to  trace  it,  in  the  latter  part  of  December,  1792. 

But  prior  to  these  causes  of  dissatisfaction,  an  alarm  had  been 
given  by  France  to  Great  Britain. 

The  Convention  on  the  19th  of  November  passed  a  decree 
in  these  words : 

11  The  National  Convention  declare,  in  the  name  of  the 
French  nation,  that  they  will  grant  fraternity  and  assistance 
to  every  people  who  wish  to  recover  their  liberty ;  and  they 
charge  the  executive  power  to  send  the  necessary  orders  to  the 
generals  to  give  assistance  to  such  people,  and  to  defend  those 
citizens  who  may  have  been  or  who  may  be  vexed  for  the  cause  of 
liberty."  Which  decree  was  ordered  to  be  printed  IN  all 
languages. 

This  decree  ought  justly  to  be  regarded  in  an  exceptionable 
light  by  the  government  of  every  country.  For  though  it  be 
lawful  and  meritorious  to  assist  a  people  in  a  virtuous  and  ra- 
tional struggle  for  liberty,  when  the  particular  case  happens,  yet  it 
is  not  justifiable  in  any  government  or  nation  to  hold  out  to  the 
world  a  general  invitation  and  encouragement  to  revolution  and  in- 
•  surrection,  under  a  promise  of  fraternity  and  assistance. 

Such  a  step  is  of  a  nature  to  disturb  the  repose  of  mankind, 
to  excite  fermentation  in  every  country,  to  endanger  government 
every  where.  Nor  can  there  be  a  doubt,  that  wheresoever  a 
spirit  of  this  kind  appears,  it  is  lawful  to  repress  and  repel  it. 

But  this  generally  exceptionable  proceeding  might  be  looked 
upon  by  Great  Britain  as  having  a  more  particular  reference  to 
her,  from  some  collateral  circumstances. 

It  is  known  that  various  societies  were  instituted  in  Great 
Britain,  with  the  avowed  object  of  reforms  in  the  government. 
These  societies  presented  addresses  to  the  Convention  of  France, 
and  received  answers,  containing  an  interchange  of  sentiments 
justly  alarming  to  the  British  government. 

It  will  suffice,  by  way  of  illustration,  to  cite  passages  from 
two  of  these  answers,  each  given  by  the  President  of  the  Con- 
vention, at  a  sitting  on  the  28th  of  November,  one  to  a  depu- 
tation from  the  Society  for  Constitutional  Information  in  Lon- 


;Et.36.]  cabinet   papers.  387 

don ;  the  other  to  a  deputation  of  English  and  Irish  citizens  at 
Paris. 

"  The  shades  of  Penn,  of  Hampden",  and  of  Sydney,  hover 
over  your  heads,  and  the  moment  without  doubt  approaches  in  which 
the  French  will  bring  congratulations  to  the  National  Conven- 
tion of  Great  Britain." 

"  Nature  and  principles  draw  towards  us  England,  Scotland, 
and  Ireland.  Let  the  cries  of  friendship  resound  through  the 
two  republics.  Again  principles  are  waging  war  against  tyranny, 
which  will  fall  under  the  blows  of  philosophy.  Koyalty  in 
Europe  is  either  destroyed  or  on  the  point  of  perishing  on  the 
ruins  of  feodalty ;  and  the  declaration  of  rights  placed  by  the 
side  of  thrones,  is  a  devouring  fire  which  will  consume  iliem.  Wor- 
thy Eepublicans,"  &c. 

Such  declarations  to  such  societies  are  a  comment  upon  the 
decree ;  are  in  every  sense  inconsistent  with  what  was  due  to  a 
just  respect  for  a  neutral  nation,  and  amounted  to  so  direct  a 
patronage  of  a  revolution,  in  the  essential  principles  of  its  gov- 
ernment, as  authorized  even  a  declaration  of  war. 

It  is  true  that  Mr.  Chauvelin,  in  a  note  to  Lord  Grenville,  of 
the  27th  of  December,  1792,  declares  that  the  "National  Con- 
vention never  meant  that  the  French  Eepublic  should  favor  in- 
surrections, should  espouse  the  quarrels  of  a  few  seditious  persons, 
or  should  endeavor  to  excite  disturbances  in  any  neutral  or 
friendly  country ;  the  decree  being  only  applicable  to  a  people, 
who  after  having  acquired  their  liberty,  should  call  for  the  fra- 
ternity, the  assistance  of  the  Republic,  by  the  solemn  and  unequivocal 
expression  of  the  general  wilV 

But  that  this  explanation  could  not  change  the  real  nature 
and  tendency  of  the  decree,  which,  holding  out  a  general  pro- 
mise of  fraternity  and  assistance  to  every  people  who  wished  to 
recover  their  liberty,  did  favor  insurrections,  was  calculated  to 
excite  disturbances  in  neutral  and  friendly  countries. 

Still  less  could  it  efface  the  exceptionable  and  offensive  nature 
of  the  reception  which  was  given,  and  the  declarations  which 
were  made,  to  the  revolutionary  or  reforming  societies  of  Great 
Britain. 


388  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  36. 

The  answer  of  Lord  Grenville  very  justly  observes,  that 
"Neither  satisfaction  nor  security  is  found  in  the  terms  of  an 
explanation  which  still  declares  to  the  promoters  of  sedition  in 
every  country,  what  are  the  cases  in  which  they  may  count  be- 
forehand on  the  support  and  succor  of  France,  and  what  reserves 
to  that  country  the  right  of  mixing  herself  in  the  internal  affairs 
of  another,  whenever  she  shall  judge  it  proper,  and  on  principles 
incompatible  with  the  political  institutions  of  all  the  countries  of 
Europe." 

Besides  the  declarations  which  have  been  mentioned  to  the 
different  English  societies,  and  which  apply  particularly  to  Great 
Britain,  there  are  other  acts  of  France  which  were  just  causey  of 
umbrage  and  alarm  to  all  the  governments  of  Europe. 

Her  decree  of  the  loth  of  December  is  one  of  them.  This 
decree,  extraordinary  in  every  respect,  which  contemplates  the 
total  subversion  of  all  the  ancient  establishments  of  every  coun- 
try into  which  the  arms  of  France  should  be  carried,  has  the  fol- 
lowing article : 

"  The  French  nation  declare — That  it  will  treat  as  enemies  the 
people,  who,  refusing  or  renouncing  liberty  and  equality,  are  desirous 
of  preserving  their  prince  and  privileged  casts,  or  of  entering  into  an 
accommodation  ivith  them.  The  nation  promises  and  engages  not 
to  lay  down  its  arms  until  the  sovereignty  and  liberty  of  the 
people,  on  whose  territories  the  French  armies  shall  have  entered, 
shall  be  established,  and  not  to  consent  to  any  arrangement  or 
treaty  with  the  prince  and  privileged  persons  so  dispossessed,  with 
whom  the  rejDublic  is  at  war." 

This  decree  cannot  but  be  regarded  as  an  outrage  little  short 
of  a  declaration  of  war  against  every  government  of  Europe, 
and  as  a  violent  attack  upon  the  freedom  of  opinion  of  all  mankind. 

The  incorporation  of  the  territories  conquered  by  the  arms  of 
France  with  France  herself,  is  another  of  the  acts  alluded  to,  as 
giving  just  cause  of  umbrage  and  alarm  to  neutral  nations  in 
general.  It  is  a  principle  well  established  by  the  laws  of  nations, 
that  the  property  and  dominion  of  conquered  places  do  not 
become  absolute  in  the  conquerors,  until  they  have  been  ceded  or 
relinquished  by  a  treaty  of  peace  or  some  equivalent  termination 
of  the  war. 


^t.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  389 

Till  then  it  is  understood  to  be  in  a  state  of  suspense,  (the 
conqueror  having  only  a  possessory  and  qualified  title,)  liable  to 
such  a  disposition  as  may  be  made  by  the  compact  which  termi- 
nates the  war.  Hence  the  citizen  of  the  neutral  nation  can 
acquire  no  final  or  irrevocable  title  to  land  by  purchase  of  the 
conqueror  during  the  continuance  of  the  war.  This  principle,  it 
is  evident,  is  of  the  greatest  importance  to  the  peace  and  security 
of  nations — greatly  facilitating  an  adjustment  of  the  quarrels  in 
which  they  happen  at  any  time  to  be  involved. 

But  the  incorporation  which  has  been  mentioned,  and  which 
actually  took  place  with  respect  to  the  territories  of  different 
powers,  Savoy,  Antwerp,  &c,  was  a  direct  violation  of  that  very 
important  and  fundamental  principle ;  and  of  those  rights  which 
the  laws  of  war  reserve  to  every  power  at  war ;  a  violation  tend- 
ing to  throw  insuperable  difficulties  in  the  way  of  peace.  After 
once  having  adopted  those  territories  as  part  of  herself  she  became 
bound  to  maintain  them  to  the  last  extremity  by  all  those 
peremptory  rules  which  forbid  a  nation  to  consent  to  its  own  dis- 
memberment. 

That  incorporation,  therefore,  changed  entirely  the  principle 
of  the  war  on  the  part  of  France.  It  ceased  to  be  a  war  for  the 
defence  of  her  rights,  for  the  preservation  of  her  liberty.  It 
became  a  war  of  acquisition,  of  extension  of  territory  and  domin- 
ion, and  in  a  manner  altogether  subversive  of  the  laws  and 
usages  of  nations,  and  tending  to  the  aggrandisement  of  France, 
to  a  degree  dangerous  to  the  independence  and  safety  of  every 
country  in  the  world. 

There  is  no  principle  better  supported  by  the  doctrines  of 
writers,  the  practice  of  nations,  and  the  dictates  of  right  reason, 
than  this — that  whenever  a  nation  adopts  maxims  of  conduct 
tending  to  the  disturbance  of  the  tranquillity  and  established 
order  of  its  neighbors,  or  manifesting  a  spirit  of  self-aggrandise- 
ment, it  is  lawful  for  other  nations  to  combine  against  it,  and  by 
force  to  control  the  effects  of  those  maxims  and  that  spirit 
The  conduct  of  France  in  the  instances  which  have  been  stated, 
calmly  and  impartially  viewed,  was  an  offence  against  nations, 
which  naturally  made  it  a  common  cause  among  them  to  check 
her  career. 


390  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  36. 

The  pretext  of  propagating  liberty  can  make  no  difference. 
Every  nation  has  a  right  to  carve  out  its  own  happiness  in  its 
own  way,  and  it  is  the  height  of  presumption  in  another  to  at- 
tempt to  fashion  its  political  creed. 

These  acts  and  proceedings  are  all  prior  in  time  to  the  last 
aggressive  step  of  Great  Britain,  the  ordering  out  of  the  kingdom 
the  person  who  was  charged  with  a  diplomatic  mission  to  that 
court  from  the  government  of  France. 

The  style  and  manner  of  that  proceeding  rendered  it  undoubt- 
edly an  insult,  and  if  the  conduct  of  France  before  that  time  had 
been  unexceptionable,  the  war  declared  by  France,  though 
offensive  in  its  nature,  would  have  been  justifiable  in  its  motive. 

With  regard  to  Spain,  the  war  was  likewise  declared  by 
France,  and  is  consequently  offensive  on  her  part.  The  conduct 
of  the  former  towards  the  latter  previous  to  this  event,  appears 
not  only  to  have  been  moderate,  but  even  timid. 

The  war  on  the  part  of  Portugal  appears  to  have  been  offensive. 

The  result  from  what  has  been  said  is,  that  the  war  in  which 
France  is  engaged,  is  in  fact  an  offensive  war  on  her  part  against 
all  the  powers  with  which  she  is  engaged,  except  one ;  and  in 
principle  to  speak  in  the  most  favorable  terms  for  her,  is  at  least  a 
mixed  case — a  case  of  mutual  aggression. 

The  inference  from  this  state  of  things  is  as  plain  as  it  is 
important.  The  casus  foederis  of  the  guarantee  in  the  treaty  of 
alliance  between  the  United  States  and  France  cannot  take  place, 
though  her  West  India  Islands  should  be  attacked. 

The  express  denomination  of  this  treaty  is  "  Traite  d' Alliance 
eventuelle  et  defensive" — Treaty  of  Alliance  eventual  and  defensive. 

The  second  article  of  the  treaty  also  calls  it  a  "  defensive 
alliance."  This,  then,  constitutes  the  leading  feature,  the  charac- 
teristic quality  of  the  treaty.  By  this  principle  every  stipulation 
in  it  is  to  be  judged. 


Mt.36.]  cabinet   papers.  391 


HAMILTON  TO  JEFFERSON. 

Treasury  Department,  May  3d,  1793. 

Sir: 

I  regret  extremely  that  I  did  not  receive  your  letter  respect- 
ing Mr.  Ternant's  application  till  two  o'clock  yesterday,  after  a 
warrant  had  issued  in  his  favor  for  the  sum  requested. 

Agreeing  entirely  in  opinion  with  you,  that  all  applications 
from  diplomatic  characters,  as  well  those  relating  to  pecuniary 
matters  as  others,  ought  to  be  addressed  to  your  Department,  I 
should  have  taken  no  step  on  the  present  occasion,  had  it  not 
been  put  on  the  footing  of  a  previous  arrangement  (as  you  will 
perceive  by  the  copy  of  Mr.  Ternant's  note  to  me),  and  had  I 
not  myself  carried  along  in  my  mind  a  general  impression  that 
the  spirit  of  what  had  passed  would  comprise  the  advance  re- 
quested in  the  particular  case. 

For  greater  caution,  however,  I  thought  it  advisable  to  men- 
tion the  matter  to  the  President,  which  was  followed  (if  I  remem- 
ber right,  upon  my  own  suggestion,)  by  the  conversation  which 
I  had  with  you. 

You  will  remember,  that  though  your  recollection,  at  the 
time,  of  what  had  passed  from  you,  agreed  with  what  had  been 
the  result  of  your  subsequent  examination,  yet  you  expressed 
an  opinion,  that  in  the  special  case  (adhering  as  a  general  rule 
to  the  spirit  of  your  late  communication),  it  ought  to  be  advisable 
to  make  the  advance  desired,  as  it  would  be  well  "  to  part  friends." 
And  it  was  at  my  request,  subsequent  to  this  declaration,  that  you 
engaged  to  review  your  communications  to  Mr.  Ternant. 

Having  told  Mr.  Ternant  that  the  matter  would  be  ter- 
minated the  day  succeeding  his  application — not  having  heard 
from  you  on  that  day — understanding  it  to  be  your  opinion, 
that,  on  the  whole,  it  would  be  well  to  make  the  advance — 
I  waited  on  the  President  yesterday  morning ;  stated  what  had 
passed  between  us,  and  obtained  his  consent  for  making  the 
advance. 

I  am  thus  particular,  from  a  desire  that  you  may  see  the 


392  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

ground  upon  which  I  have  proceeded,  as  it  would  give  me  pain 
that  you  should  consider  what  has  been  done  as  the  infringe- 
ment of  a  rule  of  official  propriety.  I  assure  you  this  was  not 
my  intention. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

May  4th,  1793. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  presents  his  respects  to  the 
President.  It  has  appeared  to  him,  that  a  circular  letter  of  the 
inclosed  form,  to  the  several  collectors,  would  be  a  measure  of 
utility.  If  not  disapproved  by  the  President,  it  will  be  for- 
warded. 

The  inclosed  paper  is  sent,  lest  the  President  should  not  have 
received  it  otherwise.  It  contains  intelligence  critically  im- 
portant, though  requiring  confirmation. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 
(private.) 

Philadelphia,  May  5th,  1793. 

Dear  Sir  : 

Before  you  dispatch  the  circular  letter,  of  which  you  in- 
closed me  a  copy,  to  the  several  collectors,  I  would  speak  to  you 
respecting  a  particular  clause  in  it. 

In  the  conversation  you  may  have  with  a  certain  gentleman 
to-day,  I  pray  you  to  intimate  to  him,  gently  and  delicately,  that 
if  the  letters  or  papers  which  he  has  to  present  are,  knowingly 
to  him,  of  a  nature  which  relates  to  public  matters,  and  not  par- 
ticularly addressed  to  me,  or  if  he  has  any  verbal  communica- 
tions to  make  of  a  similar  kind,  I  had  rather  they  should  come 
through  the  proper  channel.     Add  thereto,  generally,  that  the 


Mt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  393 

peculiar  situation  of  European  affairs  at  this  moment — my  good 
wishes  for  his  nation  aggregately — my  regard  for  those  of  it  in 
particular  with  whom  I  have  had  the  honor  of  an  acquaintance — 
my  anxious  desire  to  keep  this  country  in  peace — and  the  deli- 
cacy of  my  situation,  render  a  circumspect  conduct  indispensably 
necessary  on  my  part.  I  do  not,  however,  mean  by  this,  that  I 
am  to  withhold  from  him  such  civilities  as  are  common  to  others. 
Those  more  marked,  notwithstanding  our  former  acquaintance, 
would  excite  speculations,  which  had  better  be  avoided ;  and  if 
the  gentlemen,  similarly  circumstanced,  could  be  introduced  by 
any  other  than  himself,  especially  on  Tuesday  next,  in  the  pub- 
lic room,  when  it  is  presumed  the  officers  of  the  French  frigate 
will  be  presented,  it  would  unquestionably  be  better.  But  how 
this  can  be  brought  about,  as  they  are  strangers,  without  em- 
barrassment, as  the  French  minister  is  shy  on  the  occasion,  I  do 
not  at  this  moment  see ;  for  it  may  not  escape  observation,  as 
every  movement  is  watched,  if  the  head  of  any  Department 
should  appear  prompt  in  this  business,  in  the  existing  state  of 
things. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Philadelphia,  May  7th,  1793. 

Dear  Sir  : 

As  I  perceive  there  has  been  some  misconception  respect- 
ing the  building  of  vessels  in  our  ports  which  may  be  converted 
into  armed  ones,  and  as  I  understand  from  the  Attorney -General 
there  is  to  be  a  meeting  to-day  or  to-morrow  of  the  gentlemen  on 
another  occasion,  I  wish  to  have  that  part  of  your  circular  letter 
which  respects  this  matter  re-considcred  by  them  before  it  goes  out. 

I  am  not  disposed  to  adopt  any  measures  which  may  check 
ship-building  in  this  country ;  nor  am  I  satisfied  that  we  should 
too  promptly  adopt  measures,  in  the  first  instance,  that  are  not 
indispensably  necessary.  To  take  fair  and  supportable  ground,  I 
conceive  to  be  our  best  policy,  and  is  all  that  can  be  required  of 


394  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

us  by  the  powers  at  war ;  leaving  the  rest  to  be  managed  accord- 
ing to  circumstances  and  the  advantages  which  may  be  derived 
from  them.     I  am  always,  &c. 

Quer.  Is  it  not  expedient  that  the  District  Attorneys  should 
be  written  to,  requiring  their  attention  to  the  observance  of  the 
injunctions  of  the  proclamation? 


HAMILTON  TO  JEFFERSON. 

Treasury  Department,  May  9th,  1793. 

Sir: 

I  have  this  moment  received  your  letter  of  yesterday.  It  ap- 
pears to  me,  as  it  does  to  you,  that  the  position  of  the  Collectors 
of  the  Customs  will  render  them  the  most  convenient  channel  of 
distribution  for  the  passports ;  nor  do  I  perceive  that  it  can  inter- 
fere with  their  other  duties. 

It  will  be  equally  agreeable  to  me,  that  they  be  transmitted 
either  directly  from  your  office,  or  through  this  department.  If 
you  prefer  the  latter,  which  I  shall  with  pleasure  facilitate,  I  will 
request  you  to  cause  them  to  be  sent  in  the  first  instance  to  me, 
when  I  shall  put  them  in  the  usual  course  of  conveyance.  With 
great  respect,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 

P.  S.  Inclosed  is  the  copy  of  a  letter  from  the  Collector  of 
New-York  to  Mr.  Coxe,  of  the  7th  instant,  which  is  transmitted 
for  your  consideration. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

May  15th,  1793. 


State  of  facts  as  supposed. 

Mr.  Genet,    Minister  Plenipotentiary  from   the  republic  of 
France,  arrives  in  Charleston.     There  he  causes  two  privateers 


jEt.36.]  cabinet    papers.  395 

to  be  fitted  out,  to  which  he  issues  commissions  to  cruise  against 
the  enemies  of  France.  There  also  the  privateers  are  manned, 
and  partly  with  citizens  of  the  United  States,  who  are  enlisted  or 
engaged  for  the  purpose  without  the  privity  or  permission  of  the 
government  of  this  country,  before  even  Mr.  Genet  has  delivered 
his  credentials,  or  been  recognized  as  a  public  minister.  One  or 
both  of  these  privateers  make  captures  of  British  vessels  in  the 
neighborhood  of  our  coast,  and  bring  or  send  their  prizes  into 
our  ports.  The  British  Minister  Plenipotentiary,  among  other 
things,  demands  a  restitution  of  these  prizes.  Ought  the  demand 
to  be  complied  with? 

I  am  of  opinion  that  it  ought  to  be  complied  with,  and  for 
the  following  reasons. 

The  proceedings  in  question  are  highly  exceptionable,  both 
as  they  respect  our  rights  and  as  they  make  us  an  instrument  of 
hostilities  against  Great  Britain. 

The  jurisdiction  of  every  independent  nation  within  its  own 
territories  naturally  excludes  all  exercise  of  authority  by  any 
other  government  within  those  territories,  unless  by  its  own  con- 
sent, or  in  consequence  of  stipulations  in  treaties.  Every  such 
exercise  of  authority,  therefore,  not  warranted  by  consent  or  treaty, 
is  an  intrusion  on  the  jurisdiction  of  the  country  within  which  it 
is  exercised,  and  amounts  to  an  injury  and  affront,  more  or  less 
great,  according  to  the  nature  of  the  case. 

The  equipping,  manning,  and  commissioning  of  vessels  of  war 
— the  enlisting,  levying,  or  raising  of  men  for  military  service, 
whether  by  land  or  sea,  all  which  are  essentially  of  the  same  nature, 
are  among  the  highest  and  most  important  exercises  of  sovereignty. 

It  is,  therefore,  an  injury  and  an  affront  of  a  very  serious 
kind,  for  one  nation  to  do  acts  of  the  above  description  within 
the  territories  of  another,  without  its  consent  or  permission. 

This  is  a  principle  so  obvious  in  itself,  that  it  does  not  stand 
in  need  of  confirmation  from  authorities ;  yet  the  following  pas- 
sage from  Vattel,  as  to  one  of  the  points  included  in  the  case, 
is  so  pertinent  and  forcible,  that  it  cannot  be  improper  to  quote 
it.  It  is  found  Book  III.,  chap,  ii.,  §  15,  in  these  words:  "As 
the  right  of  levying  soldiers  belongs  solely  to  the  nation,  so  no 


396  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  36. 

person  is  to  enlist  soldiers  in  a  foreign  country  without  the  per- 
mission of  the  sovereign.  They  who  undertake  to  enlist  soldiers 
in  a  foreign  country,  without  the  sovereign's  permission,  and  in 
general,  whoever  alienates  the  subjects  of  another,  violates  one  of  the 
most  sacred  rights  both  of  the  prince  and  of  the  state.  Foreign 
recruiters  are  hanged  immediately,  and  very  justly ;  as  it  is  not  to 
be  presumed  that  their  sovereign  ordered  them  to  commit  the 
crime ;  and  if  they  did  receive  such  an  order,  they  ought  not  to 
obey  it,  their  sovereign  having  no  right  to  command  what  is  con- 
trary to  the  law  of  nature.  It  is  not,  I  say,  apprehended  that 
these  recruiters  act  by  order  of  their  sovereign,  and  usually  they 
who  have  practised  seduction  only  are,  if  taken,  severely  pun- 
ished. If  they  have  used  violence,  and  made  their  escape,  they 
are  claimed,  and  the  men  they  have  carried  off  demanded.  But 
if  it  appears  that  they  acted  by  order,  such  a  proceeding  in  a  foreign 
sovereign  is  justly  considered  as  an  injury,  and  as  a  sufficient  cause  for 
declaring  ivar  against  him,  unless  he  condescends  to  make  suitable 
reparation.'1'' 

The  word  soldier,  here  made  use  of,  is  to  be  understood  to 
mean  all  persons  engaged  or  enlisted  for  military  service,  seamen 
as  well  as  landsmen.  The  principle  applies  equally  to  the  former 
as  to  the  latter.     This,  it  is  imagined,  will  not  be  questioned. 

In  the  case  under  consideration,  there  was  neither  treaty  nor 
consent  to  warrant  what  was  done ;  and  the  case  is  much  stronger 
than  a  mere  levying  of  men. 

The  injury  and  insult  to  our  government,  then,  under  the 
facts  stated,  cannot  be  doubted.  The  right  to  reparation  follows 
of  course.  It  remains  to  inquire  whether  we  are  under  an  obli- 
gation to  redress  any  injury  which  may  have  accrued  to  Great 
Britain  from  the  irregularity  committed  towards  us.  The  exist- 
ence of  such  an  obligation  is  affirmed  upon  the  following 
grounds : 

It  is  manifestly  contrary  to  the  duty  of  a  neutral  nation  to 
suffer  itself  to  be  made  the  instrument  of  hostility  by  one  power 
at  war  against  another.  In  doing  it,  such  nation  becomes  an 
associate,  a  party. 

The  United  States  would  become  effectually  an  instrument  of 


^t.  36.]  CABINET    PAEPRS.  397 

hostility  to  France  against  the  other  powers  at  war,  if  France 
could,  ad  libitum,  build,  equip  and  commission,  in  their  ports, 
vessels  of  war — man  those  vessels  with  their  seamen — send  them 
out  of  their  ports  to  cruise  against  the  enemies  of  France — bring 
or  send  the  vessels  and  property  taken  from  those  enemies  into 
their  ports — dispose  of  them  there ;  with  a  right  to  repeat  these 
expeditions  as  often  as  she  should  find  expedient. 

By  the  same  rule,  that  France  could  do  these  things — she 
could  issue  commissions  among  us  at  pleasure  for  raising  any 
number  of  troops — could  march  those  troops  towards  our  fron- 
tiers— attack  from  thence  the  territories  of  Spain  or  England — 
return  with  the  plunder  which  had  been  taken  within  our  terri- 
tories— go  again  on  new  expeditions,  and  repeat  them  as  often  as 
was  found  advantageous. 

There  can  be  no  material  difference  between  the  two  cases — 
between  preparing  the  means  in,  and  carrying  on  from  our  ports 
naval  expeditions,  and  preparing  the  means  in,  and  carrying  on 
from  our  territories  land  expeditions  against  the  enemies  of 
France.     The  principle  in  each  case  would  be  the  same. 

And  from  both  or  either  would  result  a  state  of  war  between 
us  and  those  enemies  of  the  worst  kind  for  them,  as  long  as  it  was 
tolerated.  I  say  a  state  of  Avar  of  the  worst  kind,  because  while 
the  resources  of  our  country  would  be  employed  in  annoying 
them,  the  instruments  of  this  annoyance  would  be  occasionally 
protected  from  pursuit,  by  the  privileges  of  our  ostensible  neu- 
trality. 

It  is  easy  to  see  that  such  a  state  of  things  would  not  be 
tolerated  longer  than  till  it  was  perceived;  and  that  we  should 
quickly  and  with  good  reason  be  treated  as  an  associate  of  the 
power  whose  instrument  we  had  been  made. 

If  it  is  inconsistent  with  the  duties  of  neutrality,  to  permit 
the  practices  described  to  an  indefinite  extent,  it  must  be  alike 
inconsistent  with  those  duties  to  permit  them  to  any  extent. 
The  quality  of  the  fact,  not  the  degree,  must  be  the  criterion. 

It  has  indeed  been  agreed,  that  we  are  bound  to  prevent  the 
practices  in  question  in  future,  and  that  an  assurance  shall  be 
given  to  the  British  minister,  that  effectual  measures  will  be  taken 
for  that  purpose. 


398  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

But  it  is  denied  that  we  are  bound  to  interpose,  to  remedy 
the  effects,  which  have  hitherto  ensued. 

The  obligation  to  prevent  an  injury,  usually,  if  not  univer- 
sally, includes  that  of  repairing  or  redressing  it,  when  it  has  hap- 
pened. 

If  it  be  contrary  to  the  duty  of  the  United  States  as  a  neu- 
tral nation,  to  suffer  cruisers  to  be  fitted  out  of  their  ports  to 
annoy  the  British  trade,  it  comports  with  their  duty  to  remedy 
the  injury  which  may  have  been  sustained,  when  it  is  in  their 
power  so  to  do. 

If  it  be  said  that  what  was  done  took  place  before  the  gov- 
ernment could  be  prepared  to  prescribe  a  preventive,  and  that 
this  creates  a  dispensation  from  the  obligation  to  redress,  the 
answer  is — 

That  a  government  is  responsible  for  the  conduct  of  all  parts 
of  a  community  over  which  it  presides ;  that  it  is  to  be  supposed 
to  have  at  all  times  a  competent  police  every  where  to  prevent 
infractions  of  its  duty  towards  foreign  nations ;  that  in  the  case 
in  question,  the  magistracy  of  the  place  ought  not  to  have  per- 
mitted what  was  done,  and  that  the  government  is  answerable 
for  the  consequences  of  its  omissions. 

It  is  true  that  in  a  number  of  cases,  a  government  may  excuse 
itself  for  the  non-performance  of  its  duty,  on  account  of  the  want 
of  time  to  take  due  precautions,  from  the  consideration  of  the 
thing  having  been  unexpected  and  unforeseen,  &c. ;  and  justice 
often  requires  that  excuses  of  this  kind,  bona  fide  offered,  should 
be  admitted  as  satisfactory. 

But  such  things  are  only  excuses,  not  justifications,  and  they  are 
only  then  to  be  received  when  a  remedy  is  not  within  the  reach 
of  the  party. 

If  the  privateers  expedited  from  Charleston  had  been  sent  to 
the  French  dominions,  there  to  operate  out  of  our  reach,  the  ex- 
cuse of  want  of  time  to  take  due  precautions,  ought  to  have  been 
satisfactory  to  Great  Britain.  But  now  that  they  have  sent  their 
prizes  into  our  ports,  that  excuse  cannot  avail  us.  We  have  it 
in  our  power  to  administer  a  specific  remedy,  by  causing  resti- 
tution of  the  property  taken ;  and  it  is  conceived  to  be  our  duty 


;Et.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  399 

to  do  so.  It  is  objected  to  this,  that  the  commissions  which  were 
issued,  are  valid  between  the  parties  at  war,  though  irregular 
with  respect  to  us ;  that  the  captures  made  under  it,  are  there- 
fore valid  captures,  vesting  the  property  in  the  captors,  of  which 
they  cannot  be  deprived  without  a  violation  of  their  rights,  and 
an  aggression  on  our  part. 

It  is  believed  to  be  true  that  the  commissions  are  in  a  legal 
sense  valid  as  between  the  parties  at  war.  But  the  inference 
drawn  from  this  position,  does  not  seem  to  follow. 

It  has  been  seen  that  what  has  been  done  on  the  part  of  the 
French  is  a  violation  of  our  rights,  for  which  we  have  a  claim 
to  reparation,  and  a  right  to  make  war,  if  it  be  refused.  "We 
may  reasonably  demand  then,  as  the  reparation  to  which  we  are 
entitled,  restitution  of  the  property  taken,  with  or  without  an 
apology  for  the  infringement  of  our  sovereignty.  This  we  have 
a  right  to  demand,  as  a  species  of  reparation  consonant  with  the 
nature  of  the  injury,  and  enabling  us  to  do  justice  to  the  party, 
in  injuring  whom  we  have  been  made  instrumental.  It  can 
therefore  be  no  just  cause  of  complaint  on  the  part  of  the  captors, 
that  they  are  required  to  surrender  a  property,  the  means  of  ac- 
quiring vjhich  took  their  origin  in  a  violation  of  our  rights. 

On  the  other  hand,  there  is  a  claim  upon  us  to  arrest  the  ef- 
fects of  the  injury,  or  annoyance  to  which  we  have  been  made 
accessory.  To  insist,  therefore,  upon  the  restitution  of  the  pro- 
perty taken,  will  be  to  enforce  a  right,  in  order  to  the  perform- 
ance of  a  duty. 

The  effects  of  captures  under  the  commissions,  however  valid 
between  the  parties  at  war,  have  no  validity  against  us.  Origi- 
nating in  a  violation  of  our  rights,  we  are  nowise  bound  to  re- 
spect them. 

Why  then  (it  may  be  asked)  not  send  them  to  the  animad- 
version and  decision  of  the  courts  of  j  ustice  ?  Because  it  is  be- 
lieved they  are  not  competent  to  the  decision ;  the  whole  is  an 
affair  between  the  governments  of  the  parties  concerned,  to  be 
settled  by  reasons  of  state,  not  rules  of  law. 

'Tis  the  case  of  an  infringement  of  our  sovereignty,  to  the  pre- 
judice  of  a  third  party ;  in  which  the  government  is  to  demand  a 


400  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

reparation,  with  the  double  view  of  vindicating  its  own  rights, 
and  doing  justice  to  the  suffering  party. 

A  comparison  of  this  case  with  that  of  contraband  articles 
can  only  mislead — a  neutral  nation  has  a  general  right  to  trade 
with  a  power  at  war.  The  exception  of  contraband  articles  is  an 
exception  of  necessity ;  it  is  a  qualification  of  the  general  right 
of  the  neutral  nation  in  favor  of  the  safety  of  the  belligerent  party. 
And  from  this  cause,  and  the  difficulty  of  tracing  it,  in  the  course 
of  commercial  dealings,  that  for  the  peace  of  nations,  the  external 
penalty  of  confiscation  is  alone  established.  The  neutral  nation 
is  only  bound  to  abandon  its  subjects  to  that  penalty,  not  to  take 
internal  measures  to  prevent  and  punish  the  practice.  The  state 
of  peace  between  two  nations,  on  the  other  hand,  makes  it  intrin- 
sically criminal  in  either  nation,  or  in  the  subjects  of  either,  to 
engage  in  actual  hostilities  against  the  other.  The  sovereign  of 
each  nation  is  bound  to  prevent  this  by  internal  regulations  and 
measures;  and  of  course  to  give  redress  where  the  offence  has 
been  committed. 

What  has  been  agreed  to  be  done  in  the  present  case,  acknow- 
ledges the  distinction  and  establishes  the  consequences.  While  it 
was  refused  to  interfere  to  prevent  the  shipment  of  arms,  it  has 
been  agreed  that  measures  should  be  taken  towards  punishing 
our  citizens  who  engaged  on  board  the  privateers ;  and  to  assure 
the  British  Minister  that  effectual  measures  would  be  taken,  to 
prevent  a  repetition  of  the  thing  complained  of.  Hence  a  recog- 
nized distinction  of  principle,  and  a  virtual  recognition  of  the 
consequences  contended  for. 

As  little  to  the  purpose  is  the  example  of  cases  in  which  par- 
ticular nations  permit  the  levying  of  troops  among  them  by  the 
parties  at  war.  The  almost  continually  warlike  posture  of  Eu- 
rope, can  alone  have  produced  the  toleration  of  a  practice  so  in- 
consistent with  morality  and  humanity ;  but  allowing  these  ex- 
amples their  full  force ;  they  are  at  an  infinite  distance,  from  the 
case  of  raising,  equipping,  and  organizing,  within  the  neutral  ter- 
ritory an  armed  force — sending  it  on  expeditions  against  a  party 
at  war,  and  bringing  back  their  spoils  into  the  neutral  country. 

If  the  view  which  has  been  taken  of  the  subject,  be  a  just  one, 


jEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  401 

Great  Britain  will  have  a  right  to  consider  our  refusal  to  cause 
restitution  to  be  made,  as  equivalent  to  our  becoming  an  accom- 
plice in  the  hostility — as  a  departure  from  neutrality — as  an  ag- 
gression upon  her.  Hence  we  shall  furnish  the  cause  of  war,  and 
endanger  the  existence  of  it. 

I  infer  then,  that  we  equally  owe  it  to  ourselves,  and  to  Great 
Britain,  to  cause  restitution  to  be  made  of  the  property  taken. 
In  the  case  of  so  palpable  and  serious  a  violation  of  our  rights,  ag- 
gravated by  several  collateral  circumstances,  the  mention  of  which 
is  purposely  waived,  a  decided  conduct  appears  most  consistent 
with  our  honor,  and  with  our  future  safety. 

A.  Hamilton. 


JEFFERSON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

May  16,  1793. 

The  facts  suggested,  or  to  be  taken  for  granted,  because  the 
contrary  is  not  known,  in  the  case  now  to  be  considered,  are,  that 
a  vessel  was  purchased  at  Charleston,  and  fitted  out  as  a  privateer 
by  French  citizens,  manned  with  foreigners  chiefly,  but  partly 
with  citizens  of  the  United  States,  the  command  given  to  a 
French  citizen  by  a  regular  commission  from  his  government, 
that  she  has  made  prize  of  an  English  vessel  in  the  open  sea,  and 
sent  her  into  Philadelphia.  The  British  minister  demands  resti- 
tution, and  the  question  is  whether  the  Executive  of  the  United 
States  shall  undertake  to  make  it  ? 

This  transaction  may  be  considered,  1st,  as  an  offence  against 
the  United  States ;  2d,  as  an  injury  to  Great  Britain. 

In  the  first  view  it  is  not  now  to  be  taken  up,  the  opinion 
being  that  it  is  an  act  of  disrespect  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
United  States,  of  which  proper  notice  is  to  be  taken  at  a  proper 
time. 

Under  the  second  point  of  view,  it  appears  to  me  wrong  on 
the  part  of  the  United  States  (where  not  constrained  by  treaties), 
d  26 


402  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

to  permit  one  party  in  the  present  war  to  do  what  cannot  be  per- 
mitted to  the  other.  We  cannot  permit  the  enemies  of  France 
to  fit  out  privateers  in  our  ports,  by  the  twenty-second  article  of 
our  treaty ;  we  ought  not,  therefore,  to  permit  France  to  do  it,  the 
treaty  leaving  us  free  to  refuse,  and  the  refusal  being  necessary 
to  preserve  a  fair  and  secure  neutrality.  Yet  considering  that 
the  present  is  the  first  case  which  has  arisen,  that  it  has  been  in 
the  first  moment  of  the  war,  in  one  of  the  most  distant  ports  of 
the  United  States,  and  before  measures  could  be  taken  bv  the 
government  to  meet  all  the  cases  which  may  flow  from  the  infant 
state  of  our  government  and  novelty  of  our  position,  it  ought  to 
be  placed  by  Great  Britain  among  the  accidents  of  loss  to  which 
a  nation  is  exposed  in  a  state  of  war,  and  by  no  means  as  a  pre- 
meditated wrong  on  the  part  of  the  government.  In  this  last 
light  it  cannot  be  taken,  because  the  act  from  which  it  results, 
placed  the  United  States  with  the  offended,  and  not  the  offending 
parties.  Her  minister  has  seen  himself  that  there  could  have 
been  on  our  part  neither  permission  nor  connivance.  A  very 
moderate  apology  then  from  the  United  States  ought  to  satisfy 
Great  Britain.  The  one  we  have  made  already  is  ample,  to  wit, 
a  pointed  disapprobation  of  the  transaction,  a  promise  to  prose- 
cute and  punish  according  to  law  such  of  our  citizens  as  have 
been  concerned  in  it,  and  to  take  effectual  measures  against  a 
repetition.  To  demand  more,  would  be  a  wrong  in  Great 
Britain  :  for  to  demand  satisfaction  beyond  what  is  adequate,  is  a 
wrong :  but  it  is  proposed  further  to  take  the  prize  from  the  captors 
and  restore  her  to  the  English.  This  is  a  very  serious  proposition. 
The  dilemma  proposed  in  our  conferences,  appears  to  me  un- 
answerable. Either  the  commission  to  the  commander  of  the 
privateer  was  good,  or  not  good.  If  not  good,  then  the  tribu- 
nals of  the  country  will  take  cognizance  of  the  transaction, 
receive  the  demand  of  the  former  owner,  and  make  restitution  of 
the  capture:  and  there  being,  on  this  supposition,  a  regular 
remedy  at  law,  it  would  be  irregular  for  the  government  to  inter- 
pose. If  the  commission  be  good,  then  the  capture  having  been 
made  on  the  high  seas,  under  a  valid  commission  from  a  power 
at  war  with  Great  Britain,  the  British  owner  has  lost  all  his  right, 


jEt.36.]  cabinet    papers.  403 

and  the  prize  would  be  deemed  good  even  in  his  own  courts, 
were  the  question  to  be  brought  before  his  own  courts ;  he  has 
no  more  claim  on  the  vessel  than  any  stranger  would  have  who 
never  owned  her,  his  whole  right  being  transferred  by  the  law 
of  war  to  the  captor. 

The  legal  right  then  being  in  the  captor,  on  what  ground  can 
we  take  it  from  him  ?  Not  on  that  of  right,  for  the  right  has  been 
transferred  to  him.  It  can  only  be  by  an  act  of  force,  that  is  to 
say,  of  reprisal  for  the  offence  committed  against  us  in  the  port 
of  Charleston.  But  the  making  reprisal  on  a  nation  is  a  very 
serious  thing.  Eemonstrance  and  refusal  of  satisfaction  ought  to 
precede ;  and  when  reprisal  follows,  it  is  considered  as  an  act  of 
war,  and  never  yet  failed  to  produce  it  in  the  case  of  a  nation 
able  to  make  war.  Besides,  if  the  case  were  important  enough 
to  require  reprisals,  and  ripe  for  that  step,  Gongress  must  be 
called  on  to  take  it ;  the  right  of  reprisal  being  expressly  lodged 
with  them  by  the  Constitution,  and  not  with  the  Executive. 

I  therefore  think  that  the  satisfaction  already  made  to  the 
government  of  Great  Britain  is  quite  equal  to  what  ought  to  be 
desired  in  the  present  case ;  that  the  property  of  the  British 
owner  is  transferred  by  the  laws  of  war  to  the  captor  ;  that  for  us 
to  take  it  from  the  captor  would  be  an  act  of  force  or  reprisal 
which  the  circumstances  of  the  case  do  not  justify,  and  to  which 
the  powers  of  the  Executive  are  not  competent  by  the  Consti- 
tution; 

Th.  Jefferson. 


RANDOLPH  TO  WASHINGTON. 

May  17,  1793. 

The  Attorney-General  has  the  honor  of  submitting  to  the 
President  the  following  opinion  : 

It  appears  that  a  privateer  has  been  equipped  and  commis- 
sioned at  Charleston,  in  South  Carolina,  under  the  authority  of 
the  French  government,  and  was  at  the  same  time  manned  in 


404  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  36. 

part  by  American  citizens ;  that  on  the  high  seas  she  captured 
an  English  vessel ;  and  that  both  of  them  are  now  in  the  port  of 
Philadelphia. 

Kestitution  is  demanded  by  the  British  Minister  from  the 
Executive. 

If  this  be  considered  as  a  contest  between  France  and  Great 
Britain,  upon  a  mere  question  of  prize  or  no  prize,  the  17th  arti- 
cle of  our  treaty  with  the  former  stands  in  the  way  of  the  inqui- 
ry ;  because  it  prohibits  the  officers  of  the  United  States  "from 
making  examination  concerning  the  lawfulness  of  such  prizes  ;"  and 
indeed  the  duty  of  a  neutral  nation  shuts  up  its  courts  against 
all  such  decisions. 

It  is  therefore  insisted,  that  something  more  than  a  mere 
question  of  prize  or  no  prize  has  arisen ;  namely,  that  as  the 
commission  was  granted,  and  the  privateer  fitted  out,  and  partly 
manned  with  American  citizens,  within  the  United  States,  there 
is  an  obligation  on  them  to  restore. 

Is  the  commission  void  as  to  the  enemy  ?  ISTo ;  because  the 
etiquette  of  the  place  of  granting  it  has  never  been  heard  of,  as 
an  available  plea,  in  their  mouths ;  and  because  if  it  had  ever 
been  suspended  during  the  stay  of  the  vessel  at  Charleston,  it 
became  active  and  lawful  at  the  very  moment  that  the  privateer 
entered  upon  the  high  sea.  This  aspect  then  of  the  case  presents 
no  hope  of  restitution. 

Let  it  be  supposed,  on  the  other  hand,  that  the  commission 
was  absolutely  void.  Of  course  the  capture  would  be  annulled. 
But  by  whom  ?  Not  by  the  President ;  since  the  courts  of  1^ie 
United  States  are  competent  to  adequate  relief;  and  proceeding 
according  to  the  rules  of  the  admiralty,  they  would  consummate 
the  business  with  no  great  expense  of  time. 

But  let  a  further  supposition  be  made  ;  that  the  commission 
was  good  in  part,  and  bad  in  part,  or  in  other  words,  that,  while 
it  would  have  authorized  the  capture,  if  only  the  enemy  were 
concerned,  it  was  an  affront  and  injury  to  the  United  States,  to 
grant  it  without  their  leave  in  their  territory ;  nay  more,  that 
the  capture  has  been  the  consequence  of  this  improper  conduct 
in  our  country,  and  of  the  enlistment  of  our  own  citizens. 


;Et.36.]  cabinet    papers.  405 

"What  relates  to  the  dignity  of  the  United  States,  is  not  an 
affair  of  any  foreign  nation.  If  they  thought  proper  to  waive 
satisfaction  to  themselves  for  the  affront  and  injury,  they  cannot 
be  called  to  an  account  by  any  foreign  power ;  and  if  they  do  re- 
quire satisfaction,  its  degree  and  kind  depend  upon  their  discre- 
tion. But  it  has  been  unanimously  agreed  to  advise  the  Presi- 
dent to  direct  a  remonstrance  to  Mr.  Genet  against  what  is  past, 
and  a  repetition  of  it  in  future,  so  that  the  dignity  of  the  gov- 
ernment will  be  asserted. 

The  punishment  of  the  citizens  who  have  entered  on  board 
of  the  privateer  may,  in  some  measure,  be  a  justice  due  to  the 
powers  warring  against  France.  Accordingly  the  President  is 
also  unanimously  advised,  that  the  prosecutions  be  instituted,  as 
far  as  the  law  will  go.  If  the  person  who  received  the  commis- 
sion be  a  citizen,  he  is  a  pirate  under  the  treaty  with  Holland. 
The  rest  of  the  crew,  who  may  be  citizens,  are  conceived  by  a 
majority  of  the  gentlemen  to  be  guilty  of  a  misdemeanor;  and 
all  of  them  are  of  opinion,  that  in  a  doubtful  point,  which  cannot 
be  ascertained  too  soon,  the  sentiments  of  some  court  ought  to  be 
immediately  obtained.  For,  although  the  experiment  should 
miscarry,  it  will  vindicate  the  sincerity  of  our  neutrality. 

The  only  remaining  ground,  upon  which  restitution  has  been 
pressed,  is,  that  for  this  unlawful  act,  thus  begun  in  our  territory, 
and  completed  with  the  assistance  of  our  own  citizens,  the  United 
States  are  answerable  to  Great  Britain.  It  has  not  been  denied, 
that,  as  between  the  French  captor  and  the  British  owner,  the 
capture  is  lawful ;  nor  can  it  be  affirmed,  that  the  United  States 
are  in  any  other  manner,  responsible  for  the  offences  of  their 
citizens,  than  to  bring  them  to  punishment.  To  say  then  that 
Great  Britain  can  impose  upon  the  United  States  a  certain  rule 
and  measure  of  procuring  satisfaction  for  the  insult  by  requiring 
the  surrender  of  the  vessel  and  restitution  to  the  British  subject, 
is  to  admit  an  unwarrantable  intrusion  into  their  internal  police. 
If  the  omission  to  demand  the  vessel  be  a  cause  of  offence,  it 
must  be,  because  the  acquiescence  of  the  United  States  in  a  too 
moderate  retribution  will  indicate  a  partiality  in  the  temper  of 
the  United  States.     Should  this  be  suspected,  notwithstanding 


406  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  36. 

the  real  proofs  to  the  contrary,  it  may  be  repelled  by  other  con- 
siderations. France  has  her  rights  as  well  as  Great  Britain. 
Although  she  will  be  content  to  offer  concessions  to  the  United 
States,  yet  might  she  justly  refuse  to  do  so,  if  our  estimate  of  the 
reparation  was  compounded,  not  only  of  the  indignity  to  them, 
but  also  of  the  loss  to  the  British  subject.  At  least  she  might 
with  reason  denominate  it  a  departure  from  strict  neutrality.  It 
may  deserve  attention  too,  what  infinite  trouble  the  United  States 
would  carve  out  to  themselves,  if  they  once  commence  the  office 
of  adjusting  the  validity  of  commissions  between  the  warring 
powers.  If  a  commission,  perfect  in  every  thing,  except  the 
place  of  issuing  it,  be  a  ground  of  restitution,  it  will  be  an  easy 
matter  to  stretch  the  authority  of  the  United  States  by  little  and 
little,  until  they  become  self-constituted  into  a  tribunal  for  de- 
ciding the  validity  of  prizes :  a  function,  w hich  is  utterly  inad- 
missible to  a  neutral  nation. 

The  situation  of  the  United  States  is  extremely  peculiar. 
They  are  bound  to  pursue  a  different  conduct  to  the  different 
warring  powers.  To  France,  they  must  give  the  preference  by 
treaty ;  to  Holland,  they  must  assign  the  next  rank  of  favor  by 
treaty ;  Great  Britain  stands  upon  the  law  of  nations,  pure  and 
unqualified.  Hence  in  this  disparity  of  relations  they  will  be 
often  thrown  into  great  perplexities.  Nothing  can  lead  them 
with  safety  and  honor  through  the  labyrinth,  but  an  adherence 
to  sound  principle,  which  is  always  uniform. 

Upon  principle  therefore,  restitution  ought  not,  in  my  judg- 
ment, to  be  attempted. 

Edm.  Randolph. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 


May  25,  1793. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  presents  his  respects  to  the  Pre- 
sident ;  submits  the  draft  of  an  Act  relative  to  the  points  lately 
determined  upon  by  the  President. 


jEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  407 

By  the  President  of  the   United  States. 

An  Act  making  allowance  for  certain  services  and  contingencies 
in  the  collection  of  the  Eevenue  during  the  year  ending  on 
the  30th  day  of  June,  1792. 

Whereas  it  has  been  found  necessary  to  provide  a  compensa- 
tion for  the  legal  admeasurement  of  Stills  during  the  year  ending 
on  the  30th  day  of  June,  1792,  it  is  hereby  established  and  de- 
clared, that  there  may  and  shall  be  allowed  to  the  Collectors  of 
the  Revenue  on  spirits  distilled  in  the  United  States  and  upon 
Stills,  for  each  and  every  Still  by  them  respectively  measured 
according  to  law  on  or  before  the  said  30th  day  of  June,  1792, 
the  sum  of  thirty  cents. 

And  whereas  it  has  also  been  found  necessary  that  certain 
services  and  expenses  of  divers  officers  of  inspection,  and  persons 
actually  employed  in  the  business  of  the  Revenue  which  have  un- 
avoidably arisen  out  of  the  first  operations  of  the  Act  of  the  3d 
day  of  March,  1791,  and  in  the  year  aforesaid,  and  certain  com- 
pensations to  the  same  should  be  allowed  and  defrayed. 

The  Supervisors  of  the  Revenue  for  the  several  Districts  here- 
inafter mentioned  are  hereby  authorized  to  allow  to  the  officers 
and  persons  employed  within  their  respective  Districts,  for  servi- 
ces and  duties  actually  by  them  performed,  and  expenses  paid 
during  the  year  aforesaid,  and  not  yet  compensated  or  defrayed, 
the  sums  set  against  the  said  Districts  respectively — that  is  to 
say- 
In  the  District  of  South  Carolina  a  sum  not  exceeding  600  dollars, 

In  the  District  of  North  Carolina, 100      " 

In  the  District  of  Virginia, 350      " 

In  the  District  of  Maryland, 150      " 

In  the  District  of  Delaware,        150      " 

In  the  District  of  Pennsylvania, 300      " 

In  the  District  of  New-York, 400      " 

In  the  District  of  Connecticut, 200      " 

Given  under  my  hand  at  Philadelphia  on  the  25th  day  of 
May,  1793. 

Geo.  Washington. 


408  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 


CABINET  OPLNTIOX. 

May  29th;  1793. 

The  President  of  the  United  States  having  assembled  the 
heads  of  the  respective  departments  and  the  Attorney  General, 
laid  before  them  for  their  advice  thereon,  sundry  communications 
from  the  Governor  of  Georgia,  and  others,  relatively  to  the  re- 
cent alarming  depredations  of  the  Creek  Indians  upon  the  State 
of  Georgia. 

"Whereupon  after  the  subject  was  maturely  considered  and 
discussed,  it  was  unanimously  advised, 

That  the  Governor  of  Georgia  be  informed  that  from  consider- 
ations relative  to  foreign  powers,  and  the  pending  treaty  with  the 
Northern  Indians,  it  is  deemed  advisable  for  the  present,  to 
avoid  offensive  expeditions  into  the  Indian  country.  But  from 
the  nature  of  the  late  appearances,  it  is  thought  expedient  to  in- 
crease the  force  to  be  kept  up  for  defensive  purposes.  The  President 
therefore  authorizes  the  calling  into,  and  keeping  in  service,  in 
addition  to  the  troops  heretofore  stationed  in  Georgia,  one  hun- 
dred horse,  and  one  hundred  infantry,  to  be  employed  in  repel- 
ling inroads,  as  circumstances  shall  require.  As  it  does  not  yet 
appear  that  the  whole  nation  of  the  Creeks  is  engaged  in  hostil- 
ity, it  is  considered  that  this  force  will  be  sufficient  for  the  object 
designated.  The  case  of  a  serious  invasion  of  the  territory  of 
Georgia,  by  large  bodies  of  Indians,  must  be  referred  to  the  pro- 
visions of  the  Constitution.  The  proceeding  with  efficacy  in  fu- 
ture, requires  absolutely,  that  no  unnecessary  expense  should  be 
incurred  in  the  mean  time. 

The  above  corps  of  horse  to  be  raised  for  any  period  of  time, 
not  exceeding  twelve  months,  as  may  be  found  most  practicable ; 
subject  to  be  dismissed  at  any  time  sooner,  as  the  government 
may  think  fit.  The  infantry  to  be  called  into  service,  according 
to  the  course  of  the  militia  laws,  endeavoring  to  secure  their  con- 
tinuance in  service  for  the  like  term. 

That  General  Pickens  be  invited  to  repair  to  the  seat  of  gov- 
ernment, for  the  purpose  of  information  and  consultation — a 


Mt.  36.]  ABINET    PAPERS.  4(39 

proper  compensation  for  his  expenses  and  loss  of  time  to  be 
allowed. 

That  a  further  supply  of  one  thousand  arms,  with  correspond- 
ent accoutrements,  be  forwarded  to  the  State  of  Georgia.  Arms 
and  accoutrements  for  the  cavalry  to  be  also  provided  and 
forwarded. 

That  an  agent  be  sent  to  the  Creeks,  to  endeavor  to  adjust 
the  surrender  of  those  Indians  who  have  lately  committed  mur- 
ders on  the  citizens  of  Georgia;  to  conciliate  and  secure  such 
of  the  Indians  as  may  be  well-disposed  to  the  United  States,  in 
the  event  of  a  war  with  the  Creek  nation ;   and,  if  possible,  to 

prevent  that  extremity. 

Th.  Jefferson, 

H.  Knox, 

Edm.  Kandolph, 
Alexander  Hamilton. 


CABINET  OPINION. 

June  1,  1793. 

That  an  agent  be  sent  to  the  Choctaw  nation,  to  endeavor 
secretly  to  engage  them  to  support  the  Chickasaws  in  their 
present  war  with  the  Creeks — giving  them,  for  that  purpose, 
arms  and  ammunition  sufficient;  and  that  it  be  kept  in  view, 
that  if  we  settle  our  differences  amicably  with  the  Creeks,  we 
at  the  same  time  mediate  effectually  the  peace  of  the  Chicka- 
saws and  Choctaws ;  so  as  to  rescue  the  former  from  the  diffi- 
culties in  which  they  are  engaged,  and  the  latter  from  those  into 
which  we  may  have  been  instrumental  in  engaging  them. 

Th.  Jefferson, 
H.  Knox. 

Although  I  approve  of  the  general  policy  of  employing  In- 
dians against  Indians,  yet  I  doubt,  greatly,  whether  it  ought  to 
be  exercised  under  the  particular  existing  circumstances  with 


410  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

Spain ;  who  may  hold  herself  bound  to  take  the  part  of  the 
Creeks,  and  criminate  the  United  States  for  some  degree  of  in- 
sincerity. 

Edm.  Kandolph. 

My  judgment  balanced  a  considerable  time  on  the  proposed 
measure ;  but  it  has  at  length  decided  against  it,  and  very  ma- 
terially, on  the  ground,  that  I  do  not  think  the  United  States 
can  honorably  or  morally,  or  with  good  policy,  embark  the 
Choctaws  in  the  war,  without  a  determination  to  extricate  them 
from  the  consequences,  even  by  force.  Accordingly  it  is  pro- 
posed, that  in  settling  our  differences  with  the  Creeks,  "  we 
mediate  effectually  the  peace  of  the  Chickasaws  and  Choctaws ;" 
which  I  understand  to  mean,  that  we  are  to  insist  with  the 
Creeks  on  such  terms  of  peace  for  them  as  shall  appear  to  us 
equitable ;  and  if  refused,  will  exert  ourselves  to  procure  them  by 
arms.  I  am  unwilling,  all  circumstances  foreign  and  domestic 
considered,  to  embarrass  the  government  with  such  an  obli- 
gation. 

Alexander  Hamilton. 


HAMILTON  TO  JEFFERSON. 

Treasury  Department,  June  3d,  1793. 

Sir: 

It  was  not  till  within  an  hour  that  I  received  your  letter  of 
the  1st,  with  the  papers  accompanying  it.  I  approve  all  the 
drafts  of  letters  as  they  stand,  except  that  I  have  some  doubts 
about  the  concluding  sentence,  of  that  on  the  subject  of  Hen- 
field.  If  the  facts  are  (as  I  presume  they  are)  established,  may 
it  not  be  construed  into  a  wish,  that  there  may  be  found  no  law 
to  punish  a  conduct  in  our  citizens,  which  is  of  a  tendency  dan- 
gerous to  the  peace  of  the  nation,  and  injurious  to  powers  with 
whom  we  are  on  terms  of  peace  and  neutrality  ? 


jEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  411 

I  should  also  like  to  substitute,  for  the  words,  "have  the 
favorable  issue  you  desire,"  these  words,  "  issue  accordingly." 

I  retain,  till  to-morrow,  the  paper  relating  to  an  agent  to  the 
Choctaws.  My  judgment  is  not  entirely  made  up  on  the  point — 
the  state  of  my  family  and  my  own  health  having  prevented  due 
reflection  upon  it. 

With  great  respect,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO   WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  June  3.  1793. 

Sir: 

The  failure  of  the  late  enterprise  against  the  United  Nether- 
lands, may  be  expected  to  have  made  a  favorable  alteration  in 
regard  to  the  prospect  of  obtaining  loans  there  for  the  United 
States.  Such  an  expectation  is  also  countenanced  by  a  late  let- 
ter from  our  bankers  at  Amsterdam,  which,  however,  as  yet 
gives  no  certainty  that  can  be  a  basis  of  operation. 

The  existing  instructions  from  the  department  do  not  extend 
beyond  three  millions  of  florins.  A  comprehensive  view  of  the 
affairs  of  the  United  States  in  various  relations,  appears  to  me  to 
recommend  a  still  further  loan,  if  attainable.  Yet  I  do  not  think 
it  advisable  to  take  that  step,  in  virtue  of  the  general  powers 
from  you,  without  your  special  approbation,  particularly  as  there 
is  little  probability  that  the  loan  can  be  effected  on  better  terms 
than  five  per  cent,  interest,  and  four  per  cent,  charges.  The  fur- 
ther loan  which  I  should  contemplate,  would  embrace  three 
millions  florins. 

With  perfect  respect  and  truest  attachment,  I  have  the  honor 
to  be,  &c. 


412  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  36. 


JEFFERSON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

June  5,  1793. 

Instructions  having  been  given  to  borrow  two  millions  of 
florins  in  Holland,  and  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  proposing 
to  open  a  further  loan  of  three  millions  of  florins,  which  he  says 
"a  comprehensive  view  of  the  affairs  of  the  United  States  in  va- 
rious relations  appear  to  recommend,"  the  President  is  pleased 
to  ask  whether  I  see  any  objections  to  the  proposition. 

The  power  to  borrow  money  is  confided  to  the  President  by 
the  two  acts  of  the  4th  and  12th  of  August,  '90  ;  and  the  moneys 
when  borrowed,  are  appropriated  to  two  purposes  only,  to  wit : 
the  twelve  millions  to  be  borrowed  under  the  former,  are  appro- 
priated to  discharge  the  arrears  of  interest  and  instalments  of  the 
foreign  debt,  and  the  two  millions  under  the  latter  to  the  pur- 
chase of  the  public  debt,  under  the  direction  of  the  Trustees  of  the 
Sinking  Fund. 

These  appropriations  render  very  simple  the  duties  of  the 
President  in  the  discharge  of  this  trust.  He  has  only  to  look  to 
the  payment  of  the  foreign  debt,  and  purchase  of  the  general 
one ;  and  in  order  to  j  uclge  for  himself  of  the  necessity  of  the 
loan  proposed  for  effecting  these  two  purposes,  he  will  need  from 
the  Treasury  the  following  statements  : 

A.  A  statement  of  the  nett  amount  of  the  loans  already 
made  under  these  acts,  adding  to  that  the  two  millions  of  florins 
now  in  a  course  of  being  borrowed.  This  will  form  the  debit  of 
the  trust.  The  credit  side  of  the  account  will  consist  of  the  fol- 
lowing statements,  to  wit : 

B.  Amount  of  the  principal  and  interest  of  foreign  debt  paid 
and  payable  to  the  close  of  1792. 

C.  Ditto,  payable  to  the  close  of  1793. 

D.  Ditto,  payable  to  the  close  of  1794,  (for  I  think  our  pre- 
parations should  be  a  year  beforehand.) 

E.  Amount  of  moneys  necessary  for  the  sinking  fund  to  the 
end  of  the  year  1794. 

If  the  amount  of  the  four  last  articles  exceeds  the  first,  it  will 


>Et.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  413 

prove  a  further  loan  necessary  to  that  extent.  The  Treasury 
alone  can  furnish  these  statements  with  perfect  accuracy  ;  but  to 
show  that  there  is  probable  cause  to  go  into  the  examination, 
I  will  hazard  a  statement  from  materials,  which  though  not 
perfectly  exact,  are  not  much  otherwise.     [Statement.] 

By  this  statement  it  would  seem  as  if  all  the  payments  to 
France,  hitherto  made  and  ordered,  did  not  quite  acquit  the  year 
1792,  so  that  we  have  never  yet  been  clear  of  arrears  to  her. 
The  amount  of  the  French  debt  is  stated  according  to  the  Con- 
vention, and  the  interest  is  calculated  accordingly.  Interest  on 
the  ten  million  loan  is  known  to  have  been  paid  for  the  years 
'84,  '85,  and  is  therefore  deducted.  It  is  not  known  whether  it 
was  paid  in  the  same  loan  for  the  years  '86,  '7,  '8,  '9,  previous  to 
the  payment  of  December  3d,  '90,  or  whether  it  was  included  in 
that  payment.  Therefore  this  is  not  deducted ;  but  if  in  fact  it 
was  paid  before  that  day,  it  will  then  have  lessened  the  debt  so 
much,  to  wit,  400,000  livres  a  year  for  four  years,  making  it 
1,600,000  livres — 290,000  dollars,  which  sum  would  put  us  in 
advance  near  half  of  the  instalments  of  1793.  Xote.  Livres  are 
estimated  at  18TyV  cents,  proposed  by  the  Secretary  of  the  Trea- 
sury to  the  French  ministry  as  the  par  of  the  metals,  to  be  the 
rate  of  conversion. 

This  uncertainty  with  respect  to  the  true  state  of  the  account 
with  France,  and  the  difference  of  the  result  from  what  has  been 
understood,  shows  that  the  gentlemen  who  are  to  give  opinions 
on  this  subject,  must  do  it  in  the  dark,  and  suggests  to  the  Pre- 
sident the  propriety  of  having  an  exact  statement  of  the  account 
with  France  communicated  to  them,  as  the  ground  on  which  they 
are  to  give  opinions.  It  will  probably  be  material  in  that  about 
to  be  given  on  the  late  application  of  Mr.  Genet,  on  which  the 
Secretary  is  preparing  a  report. 


414  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

June  5th,  1793. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  to  whom  were  referred  by  the 
President  of  the  United  States,  sundry  documents  communicated 
by  the  Minister  Plenipotentiary  of  the  Eepublic  of  France, 
respectfully  makes  the  following  report  thereupon : 

The  object  of  the  communication  appears  to  be  to  engage  the 
United  States  to  enter  into  arrangements  for  discharging  the 
residue  of  the  debt  which  they  owe  to  France  by  an  anticipated 
payment  of  the  instalments  not  yet  due,  either  in  specie,  bank 
bills  of  equal  currency  with  specie,  or  in  government  bonds, 
bearing  interest,  and  payable  at  certain  specified  periods,  upon 
condition  that  the  sum  advanced  shall  be  invested  in  productions 
of  the  United  States  for  the  supply  of  the  French  dominions. 

This  object  is  the  same  which  came  under  consideration  on 
certain  propositions  lately  made  by  Col.  W.  S.  Smith,  who 
appeared  to  have  been  charged  by  the  Provisional  Executive 
Council  of  France  with  a  negotiation  concerning  it ;  in  reference 
to  which  it  was  determined  by  the  President,  with  the  concurring 
opinions  of  the  heads  of  departments,  and  the  Attorney- General, 
that  the  measure  was  ineligible,  and  that  the  proposer  would  be 
informed  that  it  did  not  consist  with  the  arrangements  of  the 
government  to  adopt  it. 

The  grounds  of  the  determination  were  purely  political — 
nothing  has  hitherto  happened  to  weaken  them.  The  decision 
on  the  application  of  the  Minister  Plenipotentiary  of  France, 
will  therefore  naturally  correspond  with  that  on  the  propositions 
of  Col.  Smith.  This,  indeed,  is  signified  to  be  the  intention  of 
the  President. 

It  consequently  only  remains  to  make  known  the  determina- 
tion to  the  minister,  in  answer  to  his  application,  with  or  without 
reasons. 

The  following  considerations  seem  to  recommend  a  simple 
communication  of  the  determination  without  reasons,  viz. : 

I.  The  United  States  not  being  bound  by  the  terms  of  their 


At.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  415 

contract  to  make  the  anticipated  payments  desired — there  is  no 
necessity  for  a  specification  of  the  motives  for  not  doing  it. 

II.  No  adequate  reasons  but  the  true  ones  can  be  assigned 
for  the  non-compliance,  and  the  assignment  of  these  would  not 
be  wholly  without  inconvenience.  The  mention  of  them  might 
create  difficulties  in  some  future  stage  of  affairs,  when  they  may 
have  lost  a  considerable  portion  of  their  force. 

The  following  answer  in  substance,  is  presumed  then  to  be 
the  most  proper  which  can  be  given : 

"  That  a  proposition  to  the  same  effect  was  not  long  since 
brought  forward  by  Col.  Smith,  as  having  been  charged  with  a 
negotiation  on  the  subject,  by  the  Provisional  Executive  Council 
of  France.  That  it  was  then,  upon  full  consideration,  concluded 
not  to  accede  to  the  measure,  for  reasons  which  continue  to  ope- 
rate, and  consequently  lead  at  this  time  to  the  same  conclusion, 
that  an  explanation  of  these  reasons  would  with  pleasure  be 
entered  into,  were  it  not  for  the  considerations  that  it  could  have 
no  object  of  present  utility,  and  might  rather  serve  to  occasion 
embarrassments  in  future." 

Which  is  humbly  submitted. 

A.  Hamilton. 

The  above  having  been  communicated  by  the  President  to 
me,  I  wrote  the  following  letter. 

Thomas  Jefferson. 


JEFFERSON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

June  G,  1793. 

Sir: 

I  cannot  but  think  that  to  decline  the  propositions  of  Mr. 
Genet,  on  the  subject  of  our  debt,  without  assigning  any  reason 
at  all,  would  have  a  very  dry  and  unpleasant  aspect  indeed. 
We  are  then  to  examine  what  are  good  reasons  for  the  refusal, 
which  of  them  may  be  spoken  out,  and  which  not. 


416  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  36. 

1.  Want  of  confidence  in  the  continuance  of  the  present  form 
of  government,  and  consequently  the  advance  to  them  might 
commit  us  with  their  successors.     This  cannot  be  spoken  out. 

2.  They  propose  to  take  the  debt  in  produce.  It  would  be 
better  for  us  that  it  should  be  done  in  moderate  masses,  yearly, 
than  in  one  year.     This  cannot  be  professed. 

3.  When  Mr.  de  Calonne  was  Minister  of  Finance,  a  Dutch 
Company  proposed  to  buy  up  the  whole  of  our  debt,  by  dividing 
it  into  actions  or  shares.  I  think  Mr.  Claviere,  now  Minister  of 
Finance,  was  their  agent.  It  was  observed  to  Mr.  De  Calonne,  that 
to  create  such  a  mass  of  American  paper,  divide  it  into  shares,  and 
let  them  deluge  the  market,  would  depreciate  them,  the  rest  of 
our  paper,  and  our  credit  in  finance ;  that  the  credit  of  a  nation 
was  a  delicate  and  important  thing,  and  should  not  be  risked  in 
such  an  operation.  Mr.  De  Calonne,  sensible  of  the  injury  of  the 
operation  to  us,  declined  it.  In  May,  1791,  there  came  through 
Mr.  Otto  a  similar  proposition  from  S.  J.  &  Co.  We  had  received 
letters  on  the  subject  from  Mr.  Short,  urging  this  same  reason 
strongly.  It  was  referred  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  who 
in  a  letter  to  yourself,  assigned  the  reasons  against  it,  and  these 
were  communicated  to  Mr.  Otto,  who  acquiesced  in  them.  This 
objection  then  having  been  sufficient  to  decline  the  proposition 
twice  before,  and  having  been  urged  to  the  two  preceding  forms 
of  government  (the  ancient,  and  that  of  1791),  will  it  not  be 
considered  by  them  as  founded  in  objections  to  the  present  form  ? 

4.  The  law  allows  the  whole  debt  to  be  paid  only  on  condi- 
tion it  can  be  done  on  terms  advantageous  to  the  United  States. 
The  minister  foresees  this  objection,  and  thinks  he  answers  it  by 
observing  the  advantage  which  the  payment  in  produce  will 
occasion.  It  would  be  easy  to  show  that  this  was  not  the  sort  of 
advantage  the  legislature  meant,  but  a  lower  rate  of  interest. 

5.  I  cannot  but  suppose  that  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury, 
who  is  much  more  familiar  than  I  am  with  the  money  operations  of 
the  Treasury,  would,  on  examination,  be  able  to  derive  practical 
objections  from  them.  We  pay  to  France  but  five  per  cent. 
The  people  of  this  country  would  never  subscribe  their  money 
but  for  six.    If  to  remedy  this  obligation  at  less  than  five  per 


^Et.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  417 

cent,  were  offered  and  accepted  by  Mr.  Genet,  he  must  part  with 
them  immediately  at  a  considerable  discount  to  indemnify  the 
loss  of  the  one  per  cent.,  and  at  a  still  greater  discount,  to  bring 
them  down  to  par  with  our  present  six  per  cents.,  so  that  the 
operation  would  be  equally  disgraceful  to  us  and  losing  to  them, 
&c,  &c. 

I  think  it  very  material  myself  to  keep  alive  the  friendly 
sentiments  of  that  country,  as  far  as  can  be  done,  without  risking 
war  or  double  payments.  If  the  instalments  falling  due  in  this 
year,  can  be  advanced  without  incurring  more  dangers,  I  should 
be  for  doing  it.  We  now'  see  by  the  declaration  of  the  Prince 
of  Saxe  Coburg,  on  the  part  of  Austria  and  Prussia,  that  the 
ultimate  point  they  desire  is  to  restore  the  Constitution  of  1791. 
Were  this  even  to  be  done  before  the  pay  days  of  this  year, 
there  is  no  doubt  in  my  mind  but  that  that  government  (as  re- 
publican as  the  present  except  in  the  form  of  its  Executive) 
would  confirm  an  advance  so  moderate  in  sum  and  time. 

I  am  sure  the  nation  of  France  would  never  suffer  their  gov- 
ernment to  go  to  war  with  us  for  such  a  bagatelle,  and  the  more 
surely  if  that  bagatelle  shall  have  been  granted  by  us  so  as  to 
please  and  not  to  displease  the  nation,  so  as  to  keep  their  affections 
engaged  on  our  side ;  so  that  I  should  have  no  fear  in  advancing 
the  instalments  of  this  year  at  epochs  convenient  to  the  Treasury, 
but  at  any  rate  I  should  be  for  assigning  reasons  for  not  changing 
the  form  of  the  debt. 

These  thoughts  are  very  hastily  thrown  on  paper,  and  will  be 
but  too  evident.  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  with  sentiments  of  sin- 
cere attachment  and  respect,  sir, 

Your  most  obedient  and  most  humble  servant, 

Th.  Jefferson. 


HAMILTON   TO   WASHINGTON. 


The  President  concurring  with  the  preceding  letter,  and  so 
signifying  to  Col.  Hamilton,  he  erased  the  words,  "which  is 
D  27 


418  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  36. 

humbly  submitted,"  in  the  former  report,  and  added  in  the  same 
paper  as  follows : 

"  If,  nevertheless,  the  President  should  be  of  opinion  that 
reasons  ought  to  be  assigned,  the  following  seem  to  be  the  best 
which  the  nature  of  the  case  will  admit,  viz. : 

"  Two  modes  of  reimbursing  or  discharging  by  anticipation 
the  residue  of  the  debt  which  the  United  States  owe  to  France, 
are  proposed. 

"  The  first,  by  a  payment  in  specie,  or  bank  bills  having  cur- 
rency equal  with  specie,  which  amounts  to  the  same  thing. 

"  The  second,  by  government  bonds,  bearing  interest,  and 
payable  at  certain  specified  periods. 

"With  regard  to  the  first  expedient,  the  resources  of  the 
Treasury  of  the  United  States  do  not  admit  of  its  being  adopted. 
The  government  has  relied  for  the  means  of  reimbursing  the 
foreign  debt  of  the  country  on  loans  to  be  made  abroad ;  the  late 
events  in  Europe  have  thrown  a  temporary  obstacle  in  the  way 
of  these  loans,  producing  an  inability  to  make  anticipated  pay- 
ments of  sums  hereafter  to  grow  due. 

"  With  regard  to  the  second  expedient,  it  has  repeatedly  come 
under  consideration,  and  has  uniformly  been  declined  as  ineligi- 
ble. The  government  has  perceived  and  continues  to  perceive 
great  inconvenience  to  its  credit,  tending  to  the  derangement  of 
its  general  operations  of  finance,  in  every  plan  which  is  calcu- 
lated to  throw  suddenly  upon  the  market  a  large  additional  sum 
of  its  bonds.  The  present  state  of  things,  for  obvious  reasons, 
would  serve  to  augment  the  evil  of  such  a  circumstance ;  while 
the  existing  and  possible  exigencies  of  the  United  States  ad- 
monish them  to  be  particularly  cautious,  at  the  present  juncture, 
of  any  measure  which  may  in  any  degree  serve  to  impair  or 
hazard  their  credit. 

"  These  considerations  are  the  more  readily  yielded  to,  from  a 
belief  that  the  utility  of  the  measure  to  France  might  not,  on  ex- 
periment, prove  adequate  to  the  sacrifices  which  she  would  have 
to  make  on  the  sale  of  the  bonds. 

"All  which  is  humbly  submitted." 

This  being  put  into  my  hands  by  the  President,  I  wrote  the 
following  note. 


JSt.36.]  cabinet    papers.  419 


JEFFERSON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

January  17,  1793. 
Th.  Jefferson  has  the  honor  of  returning  to  the  President  the 
Eeport  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  on  the  proposition  of 
Mr.  Genet.  He  is  of  the  opinion  that  all  may  be  omitted  which 
precedes  the  words,  "  Two  modes  of  reimbursing,"  &c,  which 
follows  "  of  the  reasons  that  are  proper  and  not  offensive."  The 
following  passage  should  perhaps  be  altered:  "It  has  repeatedly 
come  under  consideration,  and  has  uniformly  been  declined  as 
ineligible."  The  present  proposition  varies  from  that  repeatedly 
offered  in  the  circumstances  which  are  of  some  importance,  and 
is  accordingly  made  by  the  minister,  viz.,  the  offer  to  take  the 

in  the  produce  of  the  United  States.     A  very 
slight  alteration  will  qualify  this  expression — thus 
to  the  fact  without  abating  the  force  of  the  argument. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Philadelphia,  June  6th,  1793. 

Sir: 

Upon  a  mature  consideration  of  your  communication  to  me 
of  the  3d  instant,  recommending  a  still  further  loan  in  Holland, 
if  obtainable,  to  the  amount  of  &, 000, 000  florins,  and  stating  that 
in  case  the  recommendation  should  meet  my  ideas,  my  special 
approbation  thereof  would  be  proper ;  I  have  thought  it  neces- 
sary, in  order  to  make  the  subject  clear  to  my  mind  before  any 
steps  are  taken  in  it,  to  request  you  to  give  me  information  on 
the  following  points,  viz. : 

1st.  Whether  all  the  moneys  borrowed  under  the  acts  of  the 
4th  and  12th  of  August,  1790,  have  been  expended  on  their  re- 
spective objects  ?     If  not,  what  is  the  balance  ? 

2d.  Under  which  of  the  two  laws  do  you  propose  that  a  loan 
should  be  opened  ? 


420  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  36. 

3d.  If  under  one  or  the  other,  or  both,  what  is  the  balance 

remaining  unborrowed  of  the  two  sums  allowed  to  be  borrowed? 

4th.  To  what  use  is  the  money  proposed  to  be  borrowed,  to 

be  applied? 

George  Washington. 


HAMILTON  TO   WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department.  8th  June3  1793. 

Sir: 

I  have  the  honor  to  send  you  a  report  on  the  communication 
from  the  Minister  Plenipotentiary  of  France,  respecting  the  re- 
imbursement of  the  residue  of  the  debt  of  the  United  States 
to  that  country,  altered  in  conformity  to  your  desire;  and  to 
be,  with  perfect  respect,  &c. 

Alexander  Hamilton. 

Treasury  Department.  June  8th,  1793. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  to  whom  was  referred  a  com- 
munication from  the  Minister  Plenipotentiary  of  the  Eepublic  of 
France,  on  the  subject  of  the  debt  of  the  United  States  to  France, 
respectfully  makes  thereupon  the  following  report : 

The  object  of  this  communication  is  to  engage  the  United 
States  to  enter  into  an  arrangement  for  discharging  the  residue 
of  the  debt  which  they  owe  to  France  by  an  anticipated  pay- 
ment of  the  instalments  not  yet  due,  either  in  specie  or  bank 
bills  of  equal  currency  with  specie,  or  in  government  bonds 
bearing  interest  and  payable  at  certain  specified  periods,  upon  con- 
dition that  the  sum  advanced  shall  be  invested  in  productions  of 
the  United  States  for  the  supply  of  the  French  dominions. 

With  regard  to  the  first  expedient,  namely,  a  payment  in 
specie  or  bank  bills,  the  resources  of  the  Treasury  of  the  United 
States  do  not  admit  of  its  being  adopted.  The  government  has 
relied  for  the  means  of  reimbursing  its  foreign  debt  on  new  loans 


jEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  421 

to  be  made  abroad.  The  late  events  in  Europe  have  thrown  a 
temporary  obstacle  in  the  way  of  these  loans — producing  conse- 
quently an  inability  to  make  payment,  by  anticipation  of  the 
residue  of  the  debt  hereafter  to  grow  due. 

With  regard  to  the  second  expedient,  that  of  government- 
bonds  payable  at  certain  specified  periods,  this  in  substance, 
though  in  other  forms,  has  repeatedly  come  under  consideration, 
and  has  as  often  been  declined  as  ineligible.  Great  inconveniences 
to  the  credit  of  the  government,  tending  to  derange  its  general 
operations  of  finance,  have  been  and  must  continue  to  be  per- 
ceived, in  every  plan  which  is  calculated  to  throw  suddenly  upon 
the  market  a  large  additional  sum  of  its  bonds.  The  present 
state  of  things,  for  obvious  reasons,  would  serve  to  augment  the 
evil  of  such  a  circumstance ;  while  the  existing  and  possible  ex- 
igencies of  the  United  States  admonish  them  to  be  particularly 
cautious,  at  this  juncture,  of  any  measure  which  may  tend  to 
hazard  or  impair  their  credit. 

These  considerations  greatly  outweigh  the  advantage,  which 
is  suggested  as  an  inducement  to  the  measure,  (the  condition 
respecting  which,  is  the  principal  circumstance  of  difference  be- 
tween the  present  and  former  propositions,)  to  arise  from  an 
investment  of  the  sum  to  be  advanced  in  the  products  of  the 
country ;  an  advantage  on  which  perhaps  little  stress  can  be 
laid,  in  the  present  and  probable  state  of  foreign  demand  for 
those  products. 

The  motives  which  dissuade  from  the  adoption  of  the  pro- 
posed measure,  may,  it  is  conceived,  be  the  more  readily  yielded 
to  from  the  probability  that  the  utility  of  it  to  France  might  not, 
on  experiment,  prove  an  equivalent  for  the  sacrifices,  which  she 
might  have  to  make  in  the  disposition  of  the  bonds. 


422  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 


HAMILTON  TO  JEFFERSON. 

Treasury  Department,  June  10,  1793. 

Sir: 

The  Comptroller  of  trie  Treasury  has  reported  to  me,  that  on 
examining  the  subsisting  contracts  between  the  United  States  and 
the  government  of  France  and  the  Farmers  General,  and  a  com- 
parison thereof  with  the  foreign  accounts  and  documents  trans- 
mitted to  the  Treasury,  the  following  facts  appear. 

That  previous  to  the  treaty  of  February,  1778,  the  sum  of 
three  millions  of  livres  had  been  advanced  by  the  government  of 
France  to  the  agents  of  the  United  States,  under  the  title  of  gra- 
tuities, for  which  no  reimbursement  was  to  be  made. 

That  the  payments,  which  composed  the  before-mentioned 
sum  of  three  millions  of  livres,  are  stated,  in  a  letter  of  Mr.  Duri- 
val  to  Mr.  Grand,  dated  in  1786,  to  have  been  made  at  the  fol- 
lowing periods : 

One  million  delivered  by  the  Eoyal  Treasury  the  10th  of  June, 
1776,  and  two  other  millions  advanced  also  by  the  Eoyal  Trea- 
sury in  1777,  on  four  receipts  of  the  Deputies  of  Congress,  of  the 
17th  of  January,  3d  of  April,  10th  of  June,  and  15th  of  October 
of  the  same  year. 

In  the  accounts  of  Mr.  Ferdinand  Grand,  banker  of  the 
United  States,  the  following  sums  are  credited,  viz. 

1777,  January  31, 500,000  livres. 

April  26, 500,000 

June  4,  1,(300,000 

July  3, 500,000 

October  10,      .        .        .        .        .         500,000 


Amount  in  the  whole,      ....       3,000,000  livres. 

The  Farmers  General  of  France  claim  a  large  balance  from 
the  United  States,  on  account  of  one  million  of  livres,  which 
they  contend  was  advanced  in  June,  1777,  in  consequence  of  a 
special  contract  with  Messrs.  Franklin  and  Deane,  to  be  repaid 
by  the  delivery  of  tobacco  at  certain  stipulated  prices,  and  the 


^t.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  423 

advance  .made  by  the  Farmers  General  is  said  to  be  the  same 
money  as  is  credited  by  Mr.  Grand  on  the  4th  of  June,  1777. 

After  a  careful  examination  of  the  foreign  accounts,  it  is  found 
that  no  more  than  three  millions  of  livres  have  been  credited  by 
any  agent  of  the  United  States. 

An  opinion  "was  entertained  by  the  late  officers  of  the  Treasury, 
that  the  sum  claimed  by  the  Farmers  General  composed  a  part  of 
the  sum  supplied  as  gratuitous  aid  by  the  government.  Subse- 
quent explanations  have,  however,  rendered  it  probable,  that  in- 
cluding the  claim  of  the  Farmers  General,  the  sum  of  four  mil- 
lions of  livres  were  in  fact  received  ;  it  is,  however,  indispensable 
that  it  should  be  known  to  whom  the  money  was  paid. 

The  most  direct  mode  of  obtaining  this  information  will  be,  to 
call  for  copies  of  the  receipts  mentioned  in  Mr.  Durival's  letter  of 
1786,  and  more  particularly  a  copy  of  that  said  to  have  been  given 
on  the  10th  of  June,  1776. 

And  as  explanatory  of  the  transaction,  he  has  sent  me  the 
documents  herewith  transmitted. 

The  most  likely  conjecture,  in  my  mind,  considering  the  pe- 
riod of  the  advance,  and  the  circumstances  of  that  period,  is,  that 
the  unaccounted  for  million  went  into  the  hands  of  M.  de  Beau- 
marchais.  The  supplies  which  he  furnished  to  the  United  States 
exceeded  his  own  probable  resources,  besides  the  imprudence  of 
having  hazarded  so  much  at  that  stage  of  our  affairs  upon  our 
ability  to  pay.  And  there  were  many  symptoms,  at  the  time,  of 
his  having  been  secretly  put  in  motion  by  the  government. 

It  has  now  become  urgent  that  the  truth  of  the  case  should  be 
known.  An  account  has  recently  passed  the  auditor's  office,  ad- 
mitting in  favor  of  M.  de  Beaumarchais  a  balance  of  four  hun- 
dred and  twenty-two  thousand  two  hundred  and  sixty-five  dol- 
lars and  thirteen  cents,  with  a  reservation  only  of  the  question 
of  the  million.  If  he  has  received  that  million  which  has  been  ac- 
knowledged as  a  free  gift  from  the  French  government,  it  is  un- 
just that  he  should  be  able  to  establish  a  claim  against  the  United 
States  for  supplies  which  must  have  been  the  proceeds  of  that 
sum.  If  he  has  never  received  the  million,  every  day's  suspen- 
sion of  his  claim,  after  the  immense  delays  heretofore  incurred,  is 


424  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

a  grievous  hardship  upon  him.  It  concerns  materially  tJie  inter- 
ests, and  more  the  justice,  the  credit,  and  the  character  of  the 
United  States,  that  as  speedy  a  solution  as  possible  of  the  enigma 
may  be  obtained. 

With  a  view  to  this,  I  have  the  honor  to  make  you  the  pre- 
sent communication,  that  you  may  be  pleased  to  take  such  steps 
as  shall  appear  to  you  the  most  proper  and  efficacious  to  procure, 
as  speedily  as  the  nature  of  the  case  will  admit,  the  requisite  ex- 
planations. 


CABINET  OPINION. 

June  12,  1793. 
The  President  having  required  the  opinions  of  the  heads  of 
the  three  departments  on  a  letter  from  Governor  Clinton  of  the 
9th  inst.,  stating  that  he  had  taken  possession  of  the  sloop  Polly, 
now  called  the  Republican,  which  was  arming  and  equipping  and 
manning  by  French  and  other  citizens  to  cruise  against  some  of 
the  belligerent  powers,  and  desiring  to  know  what  further  was  to 
be  done,  and  they  having  met  and  deliberated  thereon,  are  unan- 
imously of  opinion  that  Governor  Clinton  be  desired  to  deliver 
over  to  the  civil  power  the  said  vessel  and  her  appurtenances,  to 
be  dealt  with  according  to  law;  and  that  the  Attorney  of  the 
United  States  for  the  district  of  New- York  be  desired,  to  have 
such  proceedings  at  law  instituted  as  well  concerning  the  said  ves- 
sel and  her  appurtenances,  as  against  all  the  persons,  citizens,  or 
aliens  participating  in  the  armament  or  object  thereof,  as  he  shall 
think  will  be  most  effectual  for  punishing  the  said  offenders,  and 
preventing  the  said  vessel  and  appurtenances  from  being  applied 
to  the  destined  purpose ;  and  that  if  he  shall  be  of  opinion  that  no 
judiciary  process  will  be  sufficient  to  prevent  such  application  of 
the  vessel  to  the  hostile  purpose  intended,  that  then  the  Governor 
be  desired  to  detain  her  by  force  till  the  further  advice  of  the 
general  government  can  be  taken. 


^t.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  425 

The  President  having  also  required  the  same  opinions  on  the 
memorial  of  the  British  Minister  of  the  11th  inst.,  on  the  subject 
of  the  British  brigantine  Catharine,  captured  by  the  French  fri- 
gate the  Embuscade  within  the  limits  of  the  protection  of  the 
United  States,  as  is  said,  and  carried  into  the  harbor  of  New  York, 
they  are  of  opinion  unanimously,  that  the  Governor  of  New 
York  be  desired  to  seize  the  said  vessel  in  the  first  instance,  and 
then  deliver  her  over  to  the  civil  power,  and  that  the  Attorney 
of  the  United  States  for  the  District  of  New  York  be  instructed 
to  institute  proceedings  at  law  in  the  proper  court,  for  deciding 
whether  the  said  capture  was  made  within  the  limits  of  the  pro- 
tection of  the  United  States,  and  for  delivering  her  up  to  her 
owners  if  it  be  so  decided  ;  but  that  if  it  shall  be  found  that  no 
court  may  take  cognizance  of  the  said  question,  then  the  said  ves- 
sel to  be  detained  by  the  Governor  until  the  further  orders  of  the 
general  government  can  be  had  thereon. 

Th.  Jefferson, 

H.  Knox, 

Alexander  Hamilton. 


HAMILTON  TO   WASHINGTON. 
(private.) 

Philadelphia,  June  15th.  1793. 

Sir: 

The  inclosed  report  will,  I  trust,  make  it  appear,  that  there 
are  good  reasons  relative  to  the  execution  of  the  purposes  speci- 
fied in  the  laws  for  making  a  further  loan  to  the  extent  pro- 
posed. 

But,  bottoming  the  proceeding  upon  the  direct  object  of  the 
laws,  as  the  legal  and  primary  inducement,  it  appears  to  me 
justifiable  and  wise  to  embrace,  as  secondary  and  collateral 
motives,  the  probable  operation  of  the  measure  on  the  public 
interests,  in  ways  not  immediately  indicated  in  the  laws.     On 


426  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

this  ground,  I  think  the  legal  considerations  for  a  further  loan 
are  enforced  by  the  general  state  of  affairs  at  the  present 
juncture. 

Should  a  general  Indian  war  ensue,  and,  still  more,  should 
we  unfortunately  be  involved  in  a  European  war,  nothing  could 
be  more  convenient  than  to  have  anticipated  such  a  resource, 
which  the  legislature  might  apply  to  the  new  exigencies,  as  far 
as  regards  the  purchase  of  the  debt,  without  any  violation  of 
principle. 

In  the  event  of  a  European  war  breaking  out,  it  would 
probably  be  too  late  to  attempt  what,  beforehand,  would  be 
practicable  without  difficulty. 

With  perfect  respect,  and  the  truest  attachment,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON". 

Treasury  Department,  June  15th,  1793. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  in  obedience  to  the  order  of 
the  President  of  the  United  States,  of  the  6th  inst.,  makes  the 
following  report : 

The  statement  herewith  transmitted,  marked  A,  shows  in 
the  credit  side  thereof,  the  amount  of  the  fund  arising  from 
foreign  loans  transferred  to  the  United  States,  amounting  to 
2,965,643  dollars  and  17  cents;  and  on  the  debit  side  thereof, 
the  amount  of  the  sums  which  have  been  actually  disbursed, 
and  are  in  a  course  of  disbursement,  out  of  that  fund,  for  spe- 
cific purposes,  being  2,400,159  dollars  and  19  cents. 

There  of  course  remains  for,  and  subject  to,  application, 
according  to  the  laws  authorizing  the  loans,  a  balance  of  565,484 
dollars  and  28  cents. 

To  this  will  be  to  be  added,  when  ascertained,  certain  sums 
of  interest  subsequent  to  the  year  1790,  which  will  have  been 
included  in  the  payments  to  France  and  Spain,  out  of  the  pro- 
ceeds of  the  foreign  loans,  and  which  will  thereby  have  been 


Mi.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  42? 

virtually  transferred  to  the  United  States — provision  having 
been  made  for  that  object  out  of  domestic  funds.  The  addition, 
however,  will  not  be  large. 

Hence  results  an  answer  to  the  first  question  stated  by  the 
President. 

In  answer  to  the  second  question,  the  Secretary  has  the 
honor  to  observe,  that  it  would  be,  in  his  opinion  expedient, 
for  the  reason  which  has  governed  hitherto — the  convenience  of 
which  has  been  fully  experienced,  namely,  the  power  of  apply- 
ing the  fund  to  the  purposes  of  either  law,  according  to  circum- 
stances— that  the  proposed  loan  should  be  made  upon  the  au- 
thority of  both  acts,  and  not  upon  the  separate  authority  of 
either  of  them. 

The  following  summary  answers  the  third  question  pro- 
posed : 

The  sum  allowed  to  be  borrowed,  by  the  two  acts  of  the  4th 
and  12th  of  August,  1790,  is  14,000,000  dollars.  The  whole 
amount  of  the  loans  hitherto  made,  is  19,550,000  guilders — 
equal  to  3t6t  nineteenths  of  a  dollar  per  guilder  to  7,898,989 
dollars  and  88  cents.  Consequently  the  balance  remaining  un- 
borrowed, of  the  sums  allowed  to  be  borrowed,  is  6,101,010  dol- 
lars and  12  cents,  which  leaves  much  more  than  a  sufficient 
latitude  for  a  loan  of  3,000,000  of  florins,  in  addition  to  that  for 
2,000,000  already  directed,  and  probably  set  on  foot. 

The  immediate  main  object  of  this  further  loan  would  be, 
the  purchase  of  the  debt. 

The  instalments  of  the  debt  to  France  falling  due  in  Septem- 
ber and  November  next,  and  the  interest  for  a  year  upon  so 
much  of  the  debt  as,  by  the  terms  of  the  contract,  would  fall 
due  after  the  present  time,  amount  to  3,335,000  livres,  or 
605,308  dollars  and  50  cents;  which,  if  to  be  wholly  paid,  will 
more  than  absorb  the  balance  on  hand  of  the  foreign  fund. 

Supposing  the  application  of  the  balance  to  that  purpose, 
there  would  remain  to  be  borrowed,  for  the  purpose  of  purchases 
of  the  debt,  1,715,098  dollars. 

The  two  millions  of  guilders  already  directed  to  be  borrowed, 
and  the  three  millions  the  loan  of  which  is  proposed  to  be  au- 


428  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  36. 

thorized,  would  amount,  together,  to  2,020,202  dollars  and  2 
cents ;  which  would  exceed  the  sum  requisite  for  purchases  of 
the  debt  by  305,103  dollars  and  91  cents. 

But  it  is  possible  that  events  may  arise  which  would  render 
it  desirable  to  the  United  States  to  increase  its  payments  to 
France,  as  in  that  view  also,  to  make  such  an  excess  not  incon- 
venient. 

Besides  that,  on  the  1st  of  June,  1794,  another  instalment  of 
the  Dutch  loan  becomes  .payable,  and  it  is  probable,  if  instruc- 
tions to  set  on  foot  the  loan  should  go  at  this  time,  the  entire 
payment  of  the  sums  subscribed  to  the  loan  would  not  be  com- 
pleted much  sooner  than  June  next.  Add  to  this,  that  it  is  fre- 
quently possible  to  get  the  periods  of  payment  protracted. 

It  would  have  been  fortunate,  in  every  sense,  if  the  state  of 
the  Treasury  had  permitted  the  entering  the  market  for  pur- 
chases in  force ;  but  the  detail  which  has  been  given,  shows  that 
it  could  not  have  been  done,  under  the  obstacles  which  the  state 
of  European  affairs  lately  threw  in  the  way  of  loans,  without 
materially  hazarding  the  credit  of  the  United  States. 

While  it  is  prudent  to  wait  till  it  is  experimentally  ascer- 
tained that  these  obstacles  have  been  removed  by  the  change  of 
affairs,  it  is  desirable  to  be  provided,  to  the  extent  of  the  au- 
thority given,  with,  means  of  prosecuting  purchases. 

It  is  probable  that,  for  a  considerable  time  to  come,  the 
prices  of  stock  will  remain  at  the  point  which  will  render  pur- 
chases extremely  advantageous. 

The  further  consideration,  which  has  been  stated,  with  refer- 
ence to  France,  and  the  next  instalment  of  the  Dutch  loans,  may 
not  be  found  unworthy  of  attention. 

All  which  is  respectfully  submitted. 

A.  Hamilton, 

Secretary  of  the  Treasury. 


;Et.36.]  cabinet   papers.  429 

Account  referred  to  in  Report  of 15th  June,  1793. 

Dr.  State  of  Moneys  transferred  to  the  United  States,  out  of  the  Proceeds 

of  Foreign  Loins. 

To  this  sum  expended  in  purchases  of  the  public  debt,  .  .  $284,901  89 
To  this  sum  paid,  and  to  be  paid  to  France,  for  the  use  of  St. 

Domingo, 726,000  00 

To  this  sum  paid,  and  to  be  paid  to  France,  on  account  of  the 

three  million  of  livres  promised, 544,500  00 

To  this  sum  paid  to  France,  for  miscellaneous  purposes,      .         .  49,400  00 

To  this  sum  paid,  and  to  be  paid  to  foreign  officers,  .  .  .  191,316  00 
To  this  sum  appropriated,  for  the  1st  instalment  due  to  the  Bank 

of  the  United  States, 200,000  00 

To  this  sum  remitted  to  Europe,  for  paying  an  instalment  due  on 

Is     une,  on  the  Dutch  debt,  1,000,000  of  guilders,  at  36  ~ 

nineteenths  per  guilder, 404,040  48 


5.400,159  19 
Balance  subject  to  future  disposition,  .....        565,484  28 


Pr,  contra  cr., 2,965,643  47 


By  this  sum  drawn  for  by  Samuel  Meredith,  Treasurer,        .         .     2,305,769  13 
By  this  sum  applied  in  Amsterdam  to  the  payment  of  interest,  for 
which  provision  was  made  out  of  domestic  funds,  and  there- 
by virtually  drawn  to  the  United  States,  1,633.89  guilders 
and  2  stivers,  36  T4T  nineteenths  per  guilder,         .         .         .        659.874  34 

2.965,643  47 


Treasury  Department,  June  15th,  1793. 

Alexander  Hamilton, 

Secretary  of  the  Treasury. 


WASHINGTON  TO  JEFFERSON. 

Philadelphia,  June  1G.  17' 

Dear  Sir  : 

I  should  be  glad  if  you  would  give  the  iuclosed  report  a  pe- 
rusal, and  let  me  know  if  you  think  the  reasons  therein  given 
are  sufficient  to  authorize  the  additional  loan  of  three  millions  of 


430  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

florins,  applied  for  by  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  in  a  letter 
which  you  have  seen. 

The  answers  contained  in  the  report  show  the  points  on  which 
I  required  information  from  him.  In  addition  to  the  motives 
assigned  in  the  report  for  borrowing  the  additional  sum,  there 
are  others  (if  the  act  of  doing  it  is  warranted  by  laAv),  very 
cogent  in  my  mind,  as  inducements  to  the  measure ;  namely,  the 
uncertain  result  of  the  Indian  treaty,  the  invasion  of  our  southern 
frontiers,  and  the  peculiarly  delicate  situation  in  which  we  are 
placed  with  respect  to  some  of  the  belligerent  powers,  who,  in 
spite  of  all  we  can  do,  may  involve  us  in  a  dispute  with  one  or 
more  of  them,  in  which  case  it  might  be  too  late  for  us  to  effect 
a  loan  in  Europe. 

If  the  propriety  of  borrowing  on  the  plan,  and  for  the  pur- 
poses mentioned  in  the  report,  is  clear  in  your  mind,  the  report 
may  be  returned  by  the  bearer ;  if  not,  any  time  before  noon 
to-morrow  may  do. 


JEFFERSON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

June  17,  1793. 

I  cannot  see  my  way  clear  in  the  case  in  which  the  President 
has  been  pleased  to  ask  my  opinion,  but  by  recurring  to  these 
leading  questions : 

Of  the  7,898,999  dollars  so  borrowed,  or  rather  of  the 
7,543,912  dollars  net  proceeds  thereof,  how  much  has  been 
applied  to  the  payment  of  the  foreign  and  purchase  of  the 

GENERAL  debt? 

To  the  balance  thereof,  which  should  be  on  hand,  and  the 
two  millions  of  florins  now  borrowed,  is  any  addition  necessary 
for  the  same  objects,  for  the  years  1793,  1794? 

The  statement  furnished  by  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury 
does  not  answer  these  questions.  It  only  shows  what  has  been 
done  with  somewhat  less  than  three  millions  out  of  near  eight 


^Et.36.]  cabinet    papers.  431 

millions  of  dollars  which  have  been  borrowed,  and  in  so  doing  it 
takes  credit  for  two  sums  which  are  not  to  come  out  of  this  fund, 
and  therefore  not  to  be  left  in  the  account.  They  are  the  fol- 
lowing : 

1.  A  sum  of  284,901  dollars  89  cents  expended  in  purchases 
of  the  public  debt.  In  the  general  report  of  the  trustees  of  the 
sinking  fund,  made  to  Congress  the  23d  of  February  last  and 
printed,  it  appears,  page  29,  that  the  whole  amount  of  moneys 
laid  out  by  them  was  1,302,407  dollars  64  cents ;  from  which 
were  to  be  deducted,  as  is  mentioned  in  the  note  there  subjoined, 
the  purchases  made  out  of  the  interest  fund  (then  about  50,000 
dollars,  as  well  as  I  recollect),  call  the  sum  paid  then  1,252,407 
dollars  60  cents.  By  the  Treasury  Keport,  page  38  (new  edition), 
it  appears  that  the  surplus  of  domestic  revenue  to  the  end  of 
1790,  appropriated  to  this  object,  was  1,374,656  dollars  10  cents; 
and  page  34,  that  the  moneys  drawn  from  Europe  on  account  of 
the  foreign  loans,  were  not  the  instrument  of  these  purchases ; 
and  in  some  part,  to  which  I  am  not  able  now  to  turn,  I  recollect 
pretty  certainly  that  it  is  said  these  purchases  were  actually  car- 
ried to  account,  as  was  proper,  against  the  domestic  surplus; 
consequently  they  are  not  to  be  allowed  in  the  foreign  account 
also ;  or  if  allowed  in  this,  the  sum  will  then  be  due  from  the 
surplus  account,  and  so  must  lessen  the  sum  to  be  borrowed  from 
the  sinking  fund,  which  amounts  to  the  same. 

2.  The  first  instalment  due  to  the  bank — 200,000  dollars. 
Though  the  first  payment  of  the  subscription  of  the  United  States 
to  the  bank  might  have  been  made  on  the  first  instant,  out  of  the 
foreign  moneys,  to  be  immediately  repaid  to  them  by  the  money 
borrowed  of  the  bank,  yet  this  useless  formality  was  avoided, 
and  it  was  a  mere  operation  of  the  pen  on  paper,  without  the 
displacement  of  a  single  dollar  (see  Report,  page  12) ;  and  in  any 
event  the  final  reimbursement  was  never  to  be  made  out  of  the 
foreign  fund,  which  was  appropriated  solely  to  the  'payment  of  the 
foreign  and  'purchase  of  the  general  debt.  These  two  sums 
therefore,  of  284,901  dollars  89  cents  and  200,000,  are  to  be  added 
to  the  balance  of  565,464  dollars  28  cents,  subject  to  future  dis- 
position, and  will  make  1,050,386  dollars  17  cents  actually  here 
and  still  to  be  applied  to  the  proper  appropriation. 


432  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

However,  this  account,  as  before  observed,  being  only  of  a 
part  of  the  moneys  borrowed,  no  judgment  can  be  formed  from 
it  of  the  expediency  of  borrowing  more ;  nor  should  I  have 
stopped  to  make  a  criticism  on  it,  but  to  show  why  no  such  sums 
as  the  two  above  mentioned  were  inserted  in  the  general  account 
sketched  for  the  President,  June  5.  I  must  add,  that  the  miscel- 
laneous sum  of  49,000  dollars  in  this  account  is  probably  covered 
by  some  other  articles  of  that,  as  far  as  it  is  chargeable  in  this 
fund ;  because  that  account,  under  one  form  or  another,  takes  up 
all  the  articles  chargeable  in  this  fund  which  had  appeared  in  the 
printed  reports.  I  must  therefore  proceed  to  renew  my  state- 
ment of  June  5,  inserting  therein  the  first  instalment  of  the  Dutch 
loan  of  484,000  dollars  40  cents,  payable  this  month,  which  not 
having  been  mentioned  in  any  of  the  reports  heretofore  publish- 
ed, was  noticed  in  no  statement.  I  will  add  a  like  sum  for  the 
year  1794,  because  I  think  we  should  now  prepare  for  the 
of  that  year 

As  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  does  not  seem  to  contem- 
plate the  purchasing  any  fixed  sum  for  the  sinking  fund,  I  shall 
leave  that  article  of  the  account,  add 

to  its  result  any  sum  he  may  decide  to  have  purchased  to  that 
fund. 

The  Trust  for  Loans,  Dr. 

To  net  amount  of  loans  to  June  1,  1792,       755,912  dollars, 
the  loan  now  going  for  2,000,000  florins, 

Or. 

By  charges  on  remittances  to  France, 

By  reimbursement  to  Spain, 

By  interest  paid  to  foreign  officers, 

By  principal  paid  to  foreign  officers, 

By  amount  of  French  debt,  principal  and  interest,  payable  to 

end  of  year  1791, 
By  do.  for  179  >, 
By  do.  for  1793, 
By  first  instalment  of  Dutch  debt,  1st  June,  1793, 


;Et.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  433 

By  instalments  and  interest  to  France  for  1794, 

By  instalment  to  Holland  for  1794, 

Balance  will  then  remain  in  hands  of  the  Trust,       § 

So  that  it  appears  there  will  be  a  balance  in  the  hands  of  the 
Trust — the  clear  sum  of  499,393  dollars  84  cents — were  no  mo- 
neys to  be  furnished  in  the  mean  time  to  the  sinking  fund.  But 
should  the  President  determine  to  furnish  that,  with  the  90,000 
dollars  proposed  in  my  statement  of  June  5,  then  a  loan  would 
be  necessary  for  about  405,000  dollars — in  near  round  numbers, 
1,000,000  of  guilders,  in  addition  to  the  two  millions  now  bor- 
rowing. I  am,  individually,  of  opinion  that  that  sum  ought  to 
be  furnished  to  the  sinking  fund,  and  consequently  that  an  addi- 
tional loan  to  this  extent  should  be  made,  considering  the  subject 
in  a  legal  point  of  view  only.  The  reasons  in  favor  of  the  exten- 
sion are : 

The  apprehension  of  the  extension  of  our  war  to  other  Indian 
nations,  and  perhaps  to  Europe  itself.  The  disability  this  might 
produce  to  borrow  at  all  [this  is  in  my  judgment  a  weighty  con- 
sideration]. 

The  possibility  the  government  of  France  may  become  so 
settled,  as  that  we  may  hazard  the  anticipation  of  payment,  and 
so  avoid  dead  interest. 

The  reasons  against  it  are : 

The  possibility  that  France  may  continue  for  some  time  yet 
so  unsettled  as  to  render  an  anticipation  of  payments  hazardous. 

The  risk  of  losing  the  capital  borrowed,  by  a  successful  inva- 
sion of  the  country  of  deposit,  if  it  be  left  in  Europe ;  or  by  an 
extension  of  the  bankruptcies  now  shaking  the  most  solid  houses ; 
and  when  and  where  they  will  end  we  know  not. 

Loss  of  interest  on  the  dead  sum,  if  the  sum  itself  be  safe. 

The  execution  of  a  power  for  one  object,  which  was  given  to 
be  executed  for  a  very  different  one. 

The  commitment  of  the  President,  on  this  account,  to  events, 
or  to  the  criticisms  of  those  who,  though  the  measure  should  be 
perfectly  wise,  may  misjudge  it  through  error  or  passion. 

The  apprehension  that  the  head  of  the  department  means  to 
D  28 


434  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

provide  idle  money  to  be  lodged  in  the  banks  ready  for  the  cor- 
ruption of  the  next  legislature,  as  it  is  believed  the  late  ones 
were  corrupted,  by  gratifying  particular  members  with  vast  dis- 
counts for  objects  of  speculation. 

I  confess  that  the  last  reasons  have  most  weisfht  with  me. 

o 

[The  blanks  in  this  and  the  previous  reports  of  Jefferson,  are  owing  to  the  illegi- 
bility of  the  original  papers.] 


CABINET  OPINION. 

June  17,  1793. 

At  a  meeting  of  the  heads  of  departments  at  the  President's, 
this  day,  on  summons  from  him,  a  letter  from  Mr.  Genet,  of  the 
15th  inst.,  addressed  to  the  Secretary  of  State  on  the  subject  of 
the  seizure  of  a  vessel  by  the  Governor  of  New- York,  as  having 
been  armed,  equipped,  and  manned  in  that  port,  with  a  design 
to  cruise  on  the  enemies  of  France,  was  read,  as  also  the 
draft  of  an  answer  prepared  by  the  Secretary  of  State,  which  was 
approved. 

Eead  also  a  letter  of  June  14  th,  from  Mr.  Hammond  to  the 
Secretary  of  State,  desiring  to  know  whether  the  French  priva- 
teers, the  Citizen  Genet,  and  Sans  Culottes,  are  to  be  allowed  to 
return,  or  send  their  prizes  into  the  ports  of  the  United  States. 
It  is  the  opinion  that  he  be  informed  that  they  were  required  to 
depart  to  the  dominions  of  their  own  sovereign,  and  nothing 
expressed  as  to  their  ulterior  proceedings ;  and  that  in  answer 
to  that  part  of  the  same  letter,  which  states  that  the  Sans  Culottes 
has  increased  its  force  in  the  port  of  Baltimore,  and  remains  there 
in  the  avowed  intention  of  watching  the  motions  of  a  valuable 
ship  now  lying  there,  it  be  answered,  that  we  expect  the 
speedy  departure  of  those  privateers  will  obviate  the  inconve- 
niences apprehended,  and  that  it  will  be  considered  whether  any 
practicable  arrangements  can  be  adopted,  to  prevent  the  aug- 
mentation of  the  force  of  armed  vessels. 

Th.  Jefferson, 

H.  Knox, 
A.  Hamilton. 


^t.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  435 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Philadelphia,  June  20th,  1793. 

Sir: 

I  have  received  and  paid  attention  to  your  report  of  the  15th 
instant.  The  result  is,  that  the  loan  of  two  millions  of  florins 
ought,  in  my  opinion,  to  be  urged  without  delay,  if  it  can  be  ob- 
tained within  the  limitations  of  the  law.  The  further  proposal 
of  borrowing  three  millions  of  florins  in  addition,  I  shall,  seeing 
no  inconvenience  that  will  arise  from  the  delay,  take  a  few  days 
longer  to  consider ;  as  some  reasons  occur  against,  as  well  as  for 
the  measure,  in  the  present  unsettled  state  of  credit,  and  military 
and  other  operations  in  Europe.  x 

In  the  mean  time,  it  would  contribute  to  my  understanding  of  the 
subject  better,  if  you  were  to  let  me  know  how  the  whole  sum  bor- 
rowed under  the  acts  of  the  4th  and  12th  of  August,  1790,  instead 
of  the  sums  which  have  been  transferred  to  the  United  States,  has 
been  applied ;  and  whether  the  two  hundred  thousand  dollars 
"  first  instalment  to  the  Bank  of  the  United  States,"  is  a  legal 
charge,  under  those  acts,  or  any  other,  in  the  account  A,  referred 
to  in  the  report ;  also,  whether  the  two  hundred  and  eighty -four 
thousand  nine  hundred  and  one  dollars  and  eighty-nine  cents, 
expended  in  the  purchase  of  the  public  debt,  do  not  appear  in 
the  report  of  the  commissioners  of  the  sinking  fund,  or  some 
other  report  made  to  Congress  last  session,  as  appertaining  more 
properly  to  the  surplus  revenue. 

I  ask  these  questions  for  information ;  because,  if  the  answer 
should  be  in  the  affirmative,  the  difference  will  be  very  material, 
and  when  added  to  the  balance  of  five  hundred  and  sixty -five 
thousand  four  hundred  and  eighty-four  dollars  and  twenty-eight 
cents,  as  per  your  statement  A,  would,  with  the  two  millions  of 
florins  negotiating,  cover  all  the  ascertained  demands  upon  the 
United  States  for  the  years  1793  and  1794,  exclusive  of  what 
may  be  required  for  the  sinking  fund ;  for  which  you  have  made 
no  specific  appropriation  whereby  to  form  an  estimate  of  the 
aggregate  sum  required. 


436  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  36. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  June  21,  1793. 

Sie: 

Considerations  relative  both  to  the  public  interest  and  to  my 
own  delicacy,  have  brought  me,  after  mature  reflection,  to  a  resolu- 
tion to  resign  the  office  I  hold,  towards  the  close  of  the  ensuing 
session  of  Congress. 

I  postpone  the  final  act  to  that  period,  because  some  propo- 
sitions remain  to  be  submitted  by  me  to  Congress,  which  are 
necessary  to  the  full  development  of  my  original  plan,  and,  as  I 
suppose,  of  some  consequence  to  my  reputation  ;  and  because,  in 
the  second  place,  I  am  desirous  of  giving  an  opportunity,  while 
I  shall  still  be  in  office,  to  the  revival  and  more  deliberate  pro- 
secution of  the  inquiry  into  my  conduct,  which  was  instituted 
during  the  last  session. 

I  think  it  proper  to  communicate  my  determination  thus 
early ;  among  other  reasons,  because  it  will  afford  full  time  to 
investigate  and  weigh  all  the  considerations  which  ought  to 
guide  the  appointment  of  my  successor. 

With  the  most  perfect  respect,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

June  24, 1793. 

Sir: 

Pursuant  to  your  requsition  of  the  20th  instant,  I  have  the 
honor  to  submit  a  statement  of  the  application  of  the  whole  of 
the  moneys  borrowed  by  virtue  of  the  acts  of  the  4th  and  12th 
of  August.  The  precise  accuracy  of  this  statement  cannot  be 
warranted,  till  there  shall  be  a  settlement  at  the  Treasury  of  all 
the  accounts  on  which  it  depends  (a  business  now  in  train).  But 
the  items  generally  are  so  well  ascertained  as  to  leave  no  possi- 
bility of  any  material  error. 


jEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  437 

That  the  200,000  dollars  for  the  first  instalment  of  the  debt 
due  to  the  Bank  of  the  United  States  is  properly  chargeable  to 
the  foreign  fund,  will  be  seen  by  a  recurrence  to  the  act  of  the 
2d  March  last,  authorizing  the  payment  of  that  instalment,  which 
act  expressly  directs  that  it  shall  be  made  out  of  the  moneys 
borrowed  pursuant  to  the  4th  section  of  the  act  entitled  "  An 
act  making  provision  for  the  reduction  of  the  public  debt,"  which 
is  the  act  of  the  4th  August,  1790,  authorizing  the  borrowing  of 
two  millions  of  dollars  in  order  to  purchases  of  the  debt. 

The  284,901  dollars  and  89  cents,  is  equally  a  charge  on  the 
same  fund.  It  appears  in  no  report  to  Congress  at  the  last  ses- 
sion, or  at  any  other  time,  as  appertaining  to  the  domestic  fund 
or  surplus  revenue.  On  the  contrary,  that  sum  is  expressly 
stated  to  have  been  issued  out  of  the  foreign  fund  in  my  third  letter 
to  the  House  of  Eepresentatives,  dated  February  13th,  1793 
(page  55  of  the  printed  copy  herewith  sent).  For  the  more 
complete  elucidation  of  this  fact,  a  certificate  of  the  Register 
of  the  Treasury  is  annexed,  showing  that  the  sum  in  question 
was  originally  carried  in  the  books  of  the  Treasury  to  the  ac- 
count of  the  foreign  fund. 

In  my  report  of  the  15th  instant,  I  stated  that  on  the  suppo- 
sition of  full  payment  to  France  of  the  instalments  of  September 
and  November  next  with  interest,  which  would  absorb  the  un- 
applied balance  of  the  foreign  fund,  there  would  remain  to  be 
borrowed  for  the  purpose  of  purchases  of  the  debt,  1,715,098  dol- 
lars 11  cents.  This  remainder  is  found  by  deducting  the  above- 
mentioned  sum  of  284,901  dollars  89  cents  (the  sum  expended 
in  purchases  out  of  the  foreign  fund),  from  2,000,000  of  dollars, 
the  whole  sum  authorized  to  be  borrowed  for  that  purpose. 

This  sum,  then,  of  1,715,098  dollars  11  cents,  is  the  sum  still 
to  be  procured  to  complete  the  views  of  the  legislature  with  re 
gard  to  the  purchases ;  and,  if  the  present  European  war  con- 
tinues, may,  in  all  probability,  be  invested  with  advantage  as  fast 
as  it  can  be  commanded. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


438  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  36. 

Dr.  Account  of  loans  made  pursuant  to  the  acts  of  the  &th  and  12th 

August,  1790. 

1790. 
Total  amount  of  loans,  19,550,000  guilders,  equal  at  36  ^  per 

guilder  to $7,898,989  88 

Deduct  amount  of  original  charges  respecting  contracts,  872,000 

guilders,  at  36  £-, 352,323  24 

Net  product, >  .        $7,546,666  64 

Contra  Or. 

Amount  heretofore  stated  to  have  been  transferred  to  United  States,       2,965,643  47 
Amount  of  payments  made  to  France  in  Europe,  and  charges  on 

the  same,  10,003,116  guilders  9  stivers,  equal  to  .  .  4,073,986  46 
Debt  to  Spain  in  course  of  payment,  estimated  at  680,000  florins,  274,747  46 
Interest  on  debt  to  foreign  officers  directed  to  be  paid  at  Paris, 

105,000  guilders, 42,424  24 

Paid  in  Holland  in  premiums  and  gratuities  on  old  Joans,  commis- 
sions and  other  extra  charges, *  189.865  03 

$7,546,666  66 

A.  Hamilton. 


CABINET  OPINION. 

At  a  meeting  held  at  the  State  House  of  the  eit  y  of  Philadel- 
phia, July  the  8th,  1793, 
Present — 

The  Secretary  of  State, 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury, 

The  Secretary  at  War — 

It  appeared,  that  a  brigantine  called  the  Little  Sarah  has 
been  fitted  out  at  the  port  of  Philadelphia,  with  fourteen  cannon 
and  all  other  equipments,  indicating  that  she  is  intended  (as  a 
privateerf)  to  cruise  under  the  authority  of  France,  and  that  she 

*  The  sum  paid  on  these  different  objects  is  computed  to  exceed  the  sum  stated, 
by  72,265  florins,  constituting  a  balance  of  so  much  in  favor  of  the  Commissioners, 
t  Omit  the  words  ,:  as  a  privateer." 


jEt.36.]  cabinet    papers.  439 

is  now  lying  in  the  river  Delaware  at  some  place  between  this 
city  and  Mud  Island ;  that  a  conversation  has  been  had  between 
the  Secretary  of  State  and  the  Minister  Plenipotentiary  of  France, 
in  which  conversation  the  minister  refused  to  give  any  explicit 
assurance  that  the  brigantine  would  continue  until  the  arrival 
of  the  President  and  his  decision  in  the  case  ;  but  made  declara- 
tions respecting  her  not  being  ready  to  sail  within  the  time  of 
the  expected  return  of  the  President,  from  which  the  Secretary 
of  State  infers  with  confidence,  that  she  will  not  sail  till  the  Pre- 
sident will  have  an  opportunity  of  considering  and  determining 
the  case.  That  in  the  course  of  the  conversation,  the  minister 
declared  that  the  additional  guns  which  had  been  taken  in  by 
the  Little  Sarah  were  French  property,  but  the  Governor  of 
Pennsylvania  has  declared  that  he  has  good  ground  to  believe 
that  at  least  two  of  her  cannon  were  purchased  here  of  citizens 
of  Philadelphia.  The  Governor  of  Pennsylvania  asks  advice 
what  steps,  under  the  circumstances,  he  shall  pursue. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  and  the  Secretary  of  War  are 
of  opinion,  that  it  is  expedient  that  immediate  measures  should  be 
taken  provisionally  for  establishing  a  battery  on  Mud  Island,  un- 
der cover  of  a  party  of  militia,  with  discretion  that  if  the  brig  Sarah 
should  attempt  to  depart  before  the  pleasure  of  the  President 
shall  be  known  concerning  her,  military  coercion  be  employed  to 
arrest  and  prevent  her  progress. 

The  Secretary  of  State  dissents  from  this  opinion. 

Th.  Jefferson. 

Information  having  also  been  received  that  part  of  the  crew 
of  the  Sarah  are  citizens  of  the  United  States,  as  can  be  testified 
by  Charles  Biddle  of  this  city, 

The  abovementioned  heads  of  departments  agree  that  this 
information  shall  be  communicated  to  the  attorney  of  the  dis- 
trict, in  order  that,  pursuant  to  his  former  instructions,  he  may 
take  measures  for  apprehending  and  bringing  them  to  trial. 


440  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 


CABINET  OPINION  BY  JEFFERSON. 

July  8th,  1793. 

I  am  against  the  preceding  opinion  of  the  Secretaries  of  the 
Treasury  and  War,  for  ordering  a  battery  to  be  erected  on  Mud 
Island,  and  firing  on  the  Little  Sarah,  an  armed  vessel  of  the  Be- 
public  of  France. 

Because  I  am  satisfied,  from  what  passed  between  Mr.  Genet 
and  myself  at  our  personal  interview  yesterday,  that  the  vessel 
will  not  be  ordered  to  sail  till  the  return  of  the  President,  which, 
by  a  letter  of  this  day's  post,  we  may  certainly  expect  within 
eight-and-forty  hours  from  this  time. 

Because  the  erecting  a  battery,  and  mounting  guns  to  prevent 
her  passage,  might  cause  a  departure  not  now  intended,  and  pro- 
duce the  fact  it  is  meant  to  prevent. 

Because,  were  such  battery  and  guns  now  in  readiness,  and 
to  fire  on  her,  in  the  present  ardent  state  of  her  crew,  just  in  the 
moment  of  leaving  port,  it  is  morally  certain  that  bloody  conse- 
quences would  follow ;  no  one  can  say  how  many  lives  would  be 
lost  on  both  sides ;  and  all  experience  has  shown,  that,  blood  once 
seriously  spilled  between  nation  and  nation,  the  contest  is  con- 
tinued by  subordinate  agents,  and  the  door  of  peace  is  shut.  At 
this  moment,  too,  we  expect  in  the  river  20  of  their  ships  of  war, 
with  a  fleet  of  from  100  to  150  of  their  private  vessels,  which 
will  arrive  at  the  scene  of  blood  in  time  to  continue  it,  if  not  to 
partake  in  it. 

Because  the  actual  commencement  of  hostilities  against  a  na- 
tion (for  such  this  act  may  be)  is  an  act  of  too  serious  conse- 
quence to  our  countrymen  to  be  brought  on  their  heads  by  sub- 
ordinate officers,  not  chosen  by  them  nor  clothed  with  their 
confidence,  and  too  presumptuous  on  the  part  of  those  officers, 
when  the  Chief  Magistrate,  into  whose  hands  the  citizens  had 
committed  their  safety,  is  within  eight-and-forty  hours  of  his  ar- 
rival here,  and  may  have  an  opportunity  of  judging  for  himself 
and  them,  whether  the  buying  and  carrying  away  two  cannon 
(for,  according  to  information,  they  are  not  the  nation's  own 


Mt.Z6.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  441 

property)  is  sufficient  cause  of  war  between  Americans  and 
Frenchmen. 

Because,  should  the  vessel,  contrary  to  expectation,  depart 
before  the  President's  arrival,  the  adverse  powers  may  be  told 
the  truth  of  the  case ;  that  she  went  off  contrary  to  what  we  had 
a  right  to  expect ;  that  we  shall  be  justifiable  in  future  cases  to 
measure  our  confidence  accordingly;  that  for  the  present  we 
shall  demand  satisfaction  from  France,  which,  with  the  proofs  of 
good  faith  we  have  already  given,  ought  to  satisfy  them.  Above 
all,  Great  Britain  ought  not  to  complain,  for,  since  the  date  of 
the  order  forbidding  that  any  of  the  belligerent  powers  should 
equip  themselves  in  our  ports  with  our  arms,  these  two  cannon 
are  all  that  have  escaped  the  vigilance  of  our  officers  on  the  part 
of  their  enemies,  while  their  vessels  have  carried  off  more  than  ten 
times  the  number  without  any  impediment ;  and  if  the  suggestion 
be  true  (and  as  yet  it  is  but  suggestion),  that  there  are  fifteen  or 
twenty  Americans  on  board  the  Little  Sarah,  who  have  gone 
with  their  own  consent,  it  is  equally  true  that  more  than  ten 
times  that  number  of  Americans  are  at  this  moment  on  board 
English  ships  of  war,  who  have  been  taken  forcibly  from  our 
merchant  vessels  at  sea  or  in  port,  wherever  met  with,  and  com- 
pelled to  bear  arms  against  the  friends  of  their  country.  And  is 
it  less  a  breach  of  our  neutrality  towards  France  to  suffer  Eng- 
land to  strengthen  herself  with  our  force,  than  towards  England 
to  suffer  France  to  do  it  ?  and  are  we  equally  ready  and  disposed 
to  sink  the  British  vessels  in  our  ports,  by  way  of  reprisal  for 
this  notorious  and  avowed  practice  ? 

Because  it  is  inconsistent  for  a  nation  which  has  been  pa- 
tiently bearing  for  ten  years  the  grossest  insults  and  injuries  from 
their  late  enemies,  to  rise  at  a  feather  against  their  friends  and 
benefactors,  and  that  too  in  a  moment  when  circumstances  have 
kindled  the  most  ardent  affections  of  the  two  people  towards  each 
other,  when  the  little  subjects  of  displeasure  which  have  arisen 
are  the  acts  of  a  particular  individual,  not  yet  important  enough 
to  have  been  carried  to  his  government  as  causes  of  complaint, 
are  such  as  nations  of  moderation  and  justice  settle  by  negotia- 
tion, not  making  war  their  first  step ;  and  are  such  as  that  gov- 


442  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JH*.  36. 

ernment  would  correct  at  a  word,  if  we  may  judge  from  the  late 
unequivocal  demonstrations  of  their  friendship  towards  us,  and 
are  very  slight  shades  of  the  acts  committed  against  us  by  Eng- 
land, which  we  have  been  endeavoring  to  rectify  by  negotiation, 
and  on  which  they  have  never  condescended  to  give  any  answer 
to  our  minister. 

Because  I  would  not  gratify  the  combination  of  kings  with 
the  spectacle  of  the  two  only  republics  on  earth  destroying  each 
other  for  two  cannons ;  nor  would  I,  for  infinitely  greater  cause, 
add  this  country  to  that  combination,  turn  the  scale  of  contest, 
and  let  it  be  from  our  hands  that  the  hopes  of  men  receive  their 
last  stab. 

It  has  been  observed,  that  a  general  order  has  been  already 
given  to  stop  by  force  vessels  arming  contrary  to  rule  within  our 
ports,  in  which  I  concurred.  I  did  so  because  it  was  highly  pre- 
sumable that  the  destination  of  such  a  vessel  would  be  discovered 
in  some  early  stage,  when  there  would  be  few  persons  on  board, 
these  not  yet  disposed  nor  prepared  to  resist,  and  a  small  party 
of  militia  put  on  board  would  stop  the  procedure  without  a 
marked  infraction  of  the  peace.  But  it  is  a  much  more  serious 
thing  when  a  vessel  has  her  full  complement  of  men  (here  said 
to  be  120),  with  every  preparation,  and  probably  with  dispo- 
sitions to  go  through  with  their  enterprise.  A  serious  engage- 
ment is  then  a  certain  consequence.  Besides,  an  act  of  force 
committed  by  an  officer  in  a  distant  port,  under  general  orders, 
given  long  ago,  to  take  effect  in  all  cases,  and  with  less  latitude 
of  discretion  in  him,  would  be  a  much  more  negotiable  case  than 
a  recent  order,  given  by  the  general  government  itself  (for  that 
is  the  character  we  are  to  assume)  on  the  spot,  in  the  very 
moment  pointed  at  this  special  case,  possessing  full  discretion,  and 
not  using  it.  This  would  be  a  stubborn  transaction,  not  admitting 
those  justifications  and  explanations  which  might  avert  a  war,  or 
admitting  such  only  as  would  be  entirely  humiliating  to  the 
officers  giving  the  order,  and  to  the  government  itself. 

On  the  whole,  respect  to  the  Chief  Magistrate,  respect  to  our 
countrymen,  their  lives,  interests  and  affections — respect  to  a 
most  friendly  nation,  who,  if  we  give  them  the  opportunity,  will 


^t.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  443 

answer  our  wrongs  by  correcting  and  not  by  repeating  them — 
respect  to  the  most  sacred  cause  that  ever  man  was  engaged  in, 
poising  maturely  the  evils  which  may  flow  from  the  commit- 
ment of  an  act  which  it  would  be  in  the  power  and  probably  in 
the  temper  of  subordinate  agents  to  make  an  act  of  continued 
war,  and  those  which  may  flow  from  an  eight-and-forty  hours' 
suspension  of  the  act, — are  motives  with  me  for  suspending  it 
eight-and-forty  hours,  even  should  we  thereby  lose  the  opportu- 
nity of  committing  it  altogether. 


CABINET  OPINION" — HAMILTON  AND   KNOX. 

July  8,  1793. 

Reasons  for  the  opinion  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  and  the  Sec- 
retary at  War,  respecting  the  Brigantine  Sarah. 

I.  Because  there  can  be  no  doubt,  either  upon  principle  or  au- 
thority, that  the  permitting  or  suffering,  or  what  is  equivalent, 
the  not  taking  effectual  measures  to  prevent,  when  known,  the 
fitting  out  of  privateers  in  our  ports  by  one  of  the  belligerent 
Powers  to  cruise  against  any  of  the  others,  is  an  unequivocal 
breach  of  neutrality. 

II.  Because  the  President,  in  conformity  with  an  unanimous 
opinion  of  the  heads  of  the  departments,  and  the  Attorney-Gen- 
eral, founded  upon  the  above  principle,  has  caused  his  disappro- 
bation of  the  practice  to  be  signified  to  the  Ministers  both  of 
Great  Britain  and  France,  accompanied  with  an  express  assurance 
to  the  former,  that  effectual  measures  would  be  taken  to  prevent  a 
repetition  of  the  practice. 

III.  Because  consequently  not  to  take  such  measures  in  the 
present  instance  would  be  to  depart  from  the  declaration  of  neu- 
trality, and  to  contravene  the  positive  assurance  given  to  the 
Minister  of  Great  Britain ;  an  omission  as  dishonorable  as  it  must 
be  dangerous  to  the  government,  implying  either  a  want  of  abil- 


444  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

it j,  or  a  want  of  consistency  and  good  faith.  And  as  it  will  in- 
dubitably furnish  a  just  cause  of  complaint  against  the  United 
States,  so  it  is  natural  to  expect  that  it  may  involve  them  in  war. 
It  becomes  the  more  serious  in  consequence  of  the  non-surrender 
of  the  prizes  which  were  brought  into  our  ports  by  the  privateers 
Sans  Culottes  and  Citizen  Genet,  fitted  out  at  Charleston. 

IY.  Because  the  fitting  out  of  this  privateer  is  a  transaction 
involving  on  the  part  of  the  agents  of  France  a  gross  outrage  upon, 
and  undisguised  contempt  of  the  government  of  the  United  States. 
It  is  aggravated  by  the  circumstances  of  having  been  done  under 
the  immediate  eye  of  the  government,  after  an  explicit  and  serious 
communication  of  its  disapprobation — and  after  an  expectation 
given  that  no  similar  attempt  would  be  repeated.  The  Sec- 
retary of  State  reported  to  the  President  as  the  result  of  a  conver- 
sation with  the  French  Minister,  on  the  subject  of  the  two  priva- 
teers before  mentioned,  what  was  equivalent  to  an  apology  for 
having  done  it,  and  to  at  least  a  tacit  promise  to  forbear  a  repe- 
tition.    Yet  it  is  still  done,  and  is  even  attempted  to  be  justified. 

Y.  Because  it  is  impossible  to  interpret  such  conduct  into  any 
thing  else  than  a  regular  plan  to  force  the  United  States  into  the 
war.  Its  tendency  to  produce  that  effect  cannot  be  misunder- 
stood by  the  agents  of  France.  The  direct  advantage  of  the  mea- 
sure to  her  is  obviously  too  inconsiderable  to  induce  the  persist- 
ing in  it  contrary  to  the  remonstrances  of  the  government  if  it 
were  not  with  a  view  to  the  more  important  end  just  mentioned ; 
a  conduct  the  more  exceptionable,  because  it  is  accompanied 
with  the  fallacious  disavowal  of  an  intention  to  engage  us  in  the 
war. 

YI.  Because  there  is  satisfactory  evidence  of  a  regular  system 
in  the  pursuit  of  that  object,  to  endeavor  to  control  the  govern- 
ment itself  by  creating,  if  possible,  a  schism  between  it  and  the 
people,  and  enlisting  them  on  the  side  of  France  in  opposition  to 
their  own  constitutional  authorities.  This  is  deducible  not  only 
from  a  great  variety  of  collateral  incidents,  but  from  direct  writ- 
ten and  verbal  declarations  of  the  French  Minister. 

The  memorial  lately  presented  by  him  to  the  Secretary  of 
State,  the  most  offensive  paper  perhaps  that  was  ever  offered  by 


iET.36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  445 

a  foreign  minister  to  a  friendly  power  with  which  he  resided,  an- 
nounces unequivocally  the  system  which  is  alleged  to  exist. 

Besides  the  exorbitant  pretensions  which  that  paper  advances, 
of  a  right  in  defiance  of  the  declared  sense  of  the  government  to 
fit  out  armed  vessels  from  the  ports  of  the  United  States,  and  even 
to  enlist  our  citizens  in  their  own  territories  in  the  service  of 
France — to  hold  courts  within  their  jurisdiction  for  the  condem- 
nation of  prizes  unsanctioned  by  compact,  contrary  to  the  rights  of 
neutrality,  contrary  even  to  the  spirit  of  the  regulations  of  France 
for  her  own  consulate  establishment,  besides  the  loose  and 
unfounded  charges  of  breach  of  treaty  rudely  urged— that  paper 
more  than  insinuates  the  imputation  on  the  President  of  ill  will 
to  France  under  the  instigation  of  foreign  influence,  of  having 
gone  beyond  his  duty  and  his  authority  by  the  decision  of  mat- 
ters not  within  his  province — and  sufficiently  implies  an  appeal 
from  him  to  Congress,  if  not  to  the  people,  whose  disposition  is 
at  least  indelicately  put  in  contrast  with  his.  Language  of  this 
sort,  if  even  better  founded  than  it  is  in  the  present  instance,  can 
never  be  used  by  a  diplomatic  character  without  a  culpable  vio- 
lation of  decorum.  He  has  nothing  to  do  but  with  the  constitu- 
tional organ  of  the  government.  In  his  official  communication 
he  ought  never  to  look  beyond  him — nor  can  he  do  it  without 
disrespect  to  the  government  and  to  the  nation. 

The  declaration  of  the  Minister  of  France  to  Mr.  Dallas, 
Secretary  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Pennsylvania,  as  related  by 
him  to  the  Governor  of  that  Commonwealth  and  to  the  Secretary 
of  State,  is  a  further  confirmation  of  the  same  system.  That 
declaration  among  other  exceptionable  things  expressed,  u  That 
he,  the  French  minister,  would  appeal  from  the  President  to  the 
people." 

It  would  be  a  fatal  blindness  not  to  perceive  the  spirit  which 
inspires  such  language,  and  ill-omened  jDassiveness  not  to  resolve 
to  withstand  it  with  energy. 

VI.  Because  to  refuse  an  assurance  that  the  privateer  should 
remain  in  port,  till  the  President  could  arrive  to  decide  upon  her 
situation,  was  an  additional  high-handed  contempt  of  the  govern- 
ment; which  was    in   no  shape  palliated  by  the  ambiguous 


446  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

intimations  of  a  ^probability  that  she  would  not  be  ready  to  depart 
before  his  return,  intimations  which,  from  experience  in  other 
cases,  can  in  no  degree  be  relied  upon. 

VII.  Because  not  to  act  with  decision  under  such  circum- 
stances, will  be  to  prostrate  the  government,  to  sacrifice  the 
dignity  and  essential  interests  of  the  nation.  Indecision  in  such 
a  case  must  necessarily  tend  to  destroy  at  home  and  abroad  a 
due  respect  for  the  government,  to  weaken  its  arm,  to  embolden 
the  enterprises  of  an  intriguing  and  daring  foreign  agent,  to 
encourage  and  multiply  those  who  are  disposed  to  adhere  fac- 
tiously  to  him,  and  alternately  to  put  the  country  in  the  condition 
of  being  dictated  to  by  that  foreign  agent,  and  at  war  with  all 
the  enemies  of  the  nation  he  represents.  It  is  a  truth  the  best 
founded  and  of  the  last  importance,  that  nothing  is  so  dangerous 
to  a  government  as  to  be  wanting  either  in  self-confidence  or 
self-respect. 

YIII.  Because  decision  may  even  tend  to  preserve  peace 
with  France  herself.  If  the  enterprises  of  her  minister  are  not 
checked  in  their  present  stage,  it  may  clearly  be  inferred  from 
his  character,  that  they  are  likely  to  be  carried  to  a  length  which 
will  render  a  rupture  between  the  two  countries  inevitable, 
should  they  not  previously  produce  one  with  the  powers  who 
are  opposed  to  France. 

IX.  Because  the  measure  which  is  recommended  is  but  a 
consequence  of  the  instruction  given  to  the  different  Governors 
on  the  24th  of  May  last,  addressed  to  them  in  their  military 
capacity,  expressly  to  be  executed  by  the  agency  of  the  militia, 
and  it  included  necessarily  the  use  of  military  coercion  when  that 
should  be  found  requisite  to  the  end  to  be  accomplished.  It  is 
therefore  not  to  adopt  a  new  principle,  but  to  second  the  execu- 
tion of  an  order  already  given  by  the  President,  founded  upon 
mature  deliberation  and  the  unanimous  opinion  of  the  heads  of 
departments,  with  the  Attorney-General.  It  is  therefore  due  to 
the  known  and  declared  pleasure  of  the  President.  A  Governor 
who  could  not  have  recourse  to  the  advice  now  asked,  would 
fail  in  his  duty  not  to  employ  in  a  similar  case  the  means  recom- 
mended, ivithout  further  sanction. 


^t.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  447 

The  Governor  of  Pennsylvania  might  justifiably  do  so  in  the 
existing  instance ;  but  the  case  having  been  previously  drawn 
into  consultation  between  him  and  the  heads  of  departments,  he 
has  thought  fit  to  ask  their  ad  Wee,  and  in  giving  it,  conformably 
with  the  true  spirit  of  the  President's  Instruction,  they  would 
only  faithfully  execute  the  trust  reposed  in  them  by  him. 

X.  Marked  in  original  XL  Because  the  measure  proposed  is 
only  provisional,  and  can  have  no  other  effect  than  to  evince  the 
determination  of  the  government,  unless  the  vessel  attempts  to 
depart  contrary  to  the  intimation  of  the  minister,  as  understood 
by  the  Secretary  of  State.  In  such  an  event,  the  necessity  will 
be  attested  by  the  occasion. 

XI.  In  original  XIII.  If  there  be  delicacy  on  one  side,  there 
is  still  greater  delicacy  on  the  other.  France  would  have  justly 
nothing  to  complain  of  in  reference  to  an  act  which  was  merely 
a  vindication  of  our  own  sovereignty  in  our  own  territory  against 
a  manifest,  deliberate,  and  outrageous  violation  of  it  by  her 
agent. 

If  she  be  at  all  reasonable  or  equitable,  she  will  disavow  the 
proceedings  and  the  agent,  and  take  no  offence.  An  appeal  to 
her  justice  and  friendship  ought  for  this  purpose  to  follow  a  re- 
sistance to  the  encroachment.  But  if  actual  measures  be  not 
taken,  the  other  powers  will  have  just  cause  of  complaint,  not 
only  upon  principle,  but  upon  the  strength  of  positive  assurance. 
If  war  is  to  be  hazarded,  'tis  certainly  our  duty  to  hazard  it  with 
that  power  which  by  injury  and  insult  forces  us  to  choose  be- 
tween opposite  hazards,  rather  than  with  those  powers  who  do 
not  place  us  in  so  disagreeable  a  dilemma. 

A  proceeding  like  that  proposed  cannot  colorably  be  consi- 
dered by  any  nation  as  an  act  of  hostility.  If  attempts  are  made 
in  neutral  ports  to  equip  armed  vessels  without  permission  of  the 
neutral  sovereign,  they  are  clandestine  :  if  they  are  detected  and 
suppressed,  it  is  regarded,  as  a  matter  of  course,  a  penalty  of 
which  the  adventurers  are  to  take  the  chance.  It  would  be  a 
disgrace  to  the  sovereign  to  whom  they  belong,  and  an  offence 
to  the  neutral  nation,  even  to  make  it  a  subject  of  complaint. 

To  adopt  as  a  rule  of  conduct  that  if  we  are  to  be  involved 


448  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

in  the  war,  it  must  be  at  any  rate  against  the  powers  who  are  op- 
posed to  France — and  that  we  ought  rather  to  give  them  cause 
for  attacking  us,  by  suffering  ourselves  to  be  made  an  instrument 
of  the  hostilities  of  France,  than  to  risk  a  quarrel  with  her  by  a 
vigorous  opposition  to  her  encroachments,  would  be  a  policy  as 
unjust  and  profligate  as  it  would  be  likely  to  prove  pernicious 
and  disgraceful. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

July  19th,  1793. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  presents  his  respects  to  the 
President  of  the  United  States,  and  has  the  honor  to  send  him 
for  his  information  a  letter  which  he  has  just  received  from  our 
Commissioners  at  Amsterdam. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Philadelphia,  22d  July,  1793. 

Sir: 

A  variety  of  matters  which  have  called  for  immediate  atten- 
tion, have  prevented  my  taking  up  your  letter  of  the  inst.,  in- 
closing one  from  our  Commissioners  at  Amsterdam,  dated  the 
1st  of  May  last.  It  appears  from  that  letter  that  the  reimburse- 
ment of  one  million  of  florins  due  on  the  1st  of  June,  1793,  has 
been  prolonged  for  ten  years ;  and  that  you  have  made  consider- 
able remittances  to  them. 

I  wish  therefore  to  know,  whether  this  prolongation  of  reim- 
bursement may  not  lessen  the  necessity  of  borrowing  to  so  great 
an  amount  as  might  otherwise  be  expedient,  for  the  purpose  of 
our  foreign  debts,  and  whether  those  remittances  do  not  operate  a 
similar  effect  ? 


^t.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  449 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  July  24th,  1793. 

Sib: 

In  answer  to  your  inquiry  of  the  22d  instant,  I  have  the  honor 
to  observe,  that  in  the  communications  heretofore  made  it  is  stat- 
ed that  an  additional  two  millions  of  guilders  had  been  already 
directed  to  be  borrowed,  and  a  proposition  is  submitted  to  the 
consideration  of  the  President  for  authorizing  a  further  loan  of 
three  millions  of  florins. 

One  of  the  objects  of  the  two  million  loan  was  the  reim- 
bursement of  the  one  million  which  became  due  in  Holland  on 
the  first  of  June  last. 

The  arrangement  announced  by  our  bankers  in  their  letter  of 
the  1st  of  May  last,  fulfils  that  object,  and  consequently  dimin- 
ishes by  one  million  the  aggregate  sum  deemed  advisable  to  be 
borrowed,  in  the  late  reports  of  the  Secretary  to  the  President, 
so  as  to  leave  four  millions,  instead  of  five,  to  be  still  borrowed 
upon  the  plan  contemplated. 

The  remittances  from  hence  make  no  difference  in  the  result, 
because  they  only  remain  to  their  original  funds,  the  purpose  for 
which  they  were  intended  having  been  answered  by  the  arrange- 
ment above  mentioned. 

With  perfect  respect,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


WASHINGTON  TO  JOHN  JAY,  CHIEF-JUSTICE,  AND  JAMES  WILSON, 
JAMES  IREDELL,  AND  WILLIAM  PATTERSON,  ASSOCIATE-JUS- 
TICES  OF  THE   SUPREME   COURT   OF   THE   UNITED   STATES. 

Philadelphia,  July  23,  1793. 

Gentlemen  : 

The  circumstances,  which  had  induced  me  to  ask  your  coun- 
sel on  certain  legal  questions  interesting  to  the  public,  exist  now 
d  29 


450  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

as  they  did  then ;  but  I  by  no  means  press  a  decision  whereon 
you  wish  the  advice  and  participation  of  your  absent  brethren. 
Whenever,  therefore,  their  presence  shall  enable  you  to  give  it 
with  more  satisfaction  to  yourselves,  I  shall  accept  it  with  pleasure. 
With  sentiments  of  high  respect,  I  am,  &c. 


QUESTIONS  PROPOSED  TO  BE  SUBMITTED  TO  THE  JUDGES  OF  THE 
SUPREME   COURT   OF  THE   UNITED  STATES. 

Draft  by  Hamilton. 

July,  1793. 

I.  Do  the  treaties  between  the  United  States  and  France  give 
to  France  or  her  citizens  a  right,  when  at  war  with  a  power  with 
whom  the  United  States  are  at  peace,  to  fit  out  originally  in  and 
from  the  ports  of  the  United  States,  vessels  armed  for  war  with 
or  without  commissions?  ^ 

II.  If  they  give  such  a  right,  does  it  extend  to  all  manner  of 
armed  vessels,  or  to  particular  kinds  only?  If  the  latter,  to 
what  kinds  does  it  extend  ? 

III.  Do  they  give  to  France  or  her  citizens,  in  the  case  sup- 
posed, a  right  to  refit  or  arm  anew  vessels,  which  before  their 
coming  within  any  port  of  the  United  States  were  armed  for  war, 
with  or  without  commission  ? 

IY.  If  they  give  such  a  right,  does  it  extend  to  all  manner 
of  armed  vessels,  or  to  particular  kinds  only  ?  If  the  latter,  to  what 
kinds  does  it  extend  ?  Does  it  include  an  augmentation  of  force, 
or  does  it  only  extend  to  replacing  the  vessel  in  statu  quo  f 

V.  Does  the  22d  Article  of  the  Treaty  of  Commerce,  in  the 
case  supposed,  extend  to  vessels  armed  for  war,  on  account  of 
the  government  of  a  power  at  war  with  France,  or  to  merchant 
armed  vessels  belonging  to  the  subjects  or  citizens  of  that  power 
(viz.)  of  the  description  of  those  which  by  the  English  are  called 
letter  of  marque  ships — by  the  French,  "  batiments  armes  en  mar- 
chandise  et  en  guerre  ?" 


jEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  451 

VI.  Do  the  treaties  aforesaid  prohibit  the  United  States  from 
permitting,  in  the  case  aforesaid,  the  armed  vessels  belonging  to 
a  power  at  war  with  France,  or  to  the  citizens  or  subjects  of  such 
power,  to  come  within  the  ports  of  the  United  States,  there  to 
remain  as  long  as  they  may  think  fit,  except  in  the  case  of  their 
coming  in  with  prizes  made  of  the  subjects  or  property  of  France  ? 

VII.  Do  they  prohibit  the  United  States  from  permitting,  in 
the  case  supposed,  vessels  armed,  on  account  of  the  government 
of  a  power  at  war  with  France,  or  vessels  armed  for  merchan- 
dise and  war,  with  or  without  commission,  on  account  of  the 
subjects  or  citizens  of  such  power,  or  any  vessels  other  than 
those  commonly  called  privateers,  to  sell  freely  whatsoever  they 
may  bring  into  the  ports  of  the  United  States,  and  freely  to  pur- 
chase in  and  carry  from  the  ports  of  the  United  States,  goods,  mer- 
chandise, and  commodities,  except  as  excepted  in  the  last  question. 

VIII.  Do  they  oblige  the  United  States  to  permit  France,  in 
the  case  supposed,  to  sell  in  their  ports  the  prizes  which  she  or  her 
citizens  may  have  made  of  any  power  at  war  with  her,  the  citi- 
zens or  subjects  of  such  power ;  or  exempt  from  the  payment  of  the 
usual  duties  on  ships  and  merchandise,  the  prizes  so  made,  in  the 
case  of  their  being  to  be  sold  within  the  ports  of  the  United  States  ? 

IX.  Do  those  treaties,  particularly  the  Consular  Convention, 
authorize  France,  as  of  right,  to  erect  courts  within  the  jurisdic- 
tion of  the  United  States  for  the  trial  and  condemnation  of  prizes 
made  by  armed  vessels  in  her  service  ? 

X.  Do  the  laws  and  usages  of  nations  authorize  her,  as  of 
right,  to  erect  such  courts  for  such  purposes  ? 

XL  Do  the  laws  of  neutrality,  considered  relatively  to  the 
treaties  of  the  United  States  with  foreign  powers,  or  independently 
of  those  treaties,  permit  the  United  States  in  the  case  supposed, 
to  allow  to  France  or  her  citizens  the  privilege  of  fitting  out 
originally  in  and  from  the  ports  of  the  United  States,  vessels 
armed  and  commissioned  for  war,  either  on  account  of  the  gov- 
ernment or  of  private  persons,  or  both  ? 

XII.  Do  those  laws  permit  the  United  States  to  extend  the 
like  privilege  to  a  power  at  war  with  France  ? 

XII.  Do  the  laws  of  neutrality,  considered  as  aforesaid,  per- 


452  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  36. 

mit  the  United  States,  in  the  case  supposed,  to  allow  to  France 
or  her  citizens  the  privilege  of  refitting  or  arming  anew  vessels 
which,  before  their  coming  within  the  United  States,  were 
armed  and  commissioned  for  war  ?  May  such  privilege  include 
an  augmentation  of  the  force  of  such  vessels  ? 

XIII.  Do  those  laws  permit  the  United  States  to  extend  the 
like  privilege  to  a  power  at  war  with  France  ? 

XIY.  Do  those  laws,  in  the  case  supposed,  permit  merchant 
vessels  of  either  of  the  powers  at  war,  to  arm  in  the  ports  of  the 
United  States,  without  being  commissioned?  May  this  privi- 
lege be  rightfully  refused  ? 

XV.  Does  it  make  any  difference,  in  point  of  principle, 
whether  a  vessel  be  armed  for  war,  or  the  force  of  an  armed  ves- 
sel be  augmented  in  the  ports  of  the  United  States,  with  means 
procured  in  the  United  States,  or  with  means  brought  into  them, 
by  the  party  who  shall  so  arm  or  augment  the  force  of  such 
vessel  ?     If  the  first  be  unlawful,  is  the  first  lawful  ? 

XYI.  Do  the  laws  of  neutrality,  considered  as  aforesaid,  au- 
thorize the  United  States  to  permit  to  France,  her  subjects  or 
citizens,  the  sale  within  her  ports  of  prizes  made  of  the  subjects 
or  property  of  a  power  at  war  with  France,  before  they  have 
been  carried  into  some  port  of  France  and  there  condemned,  re- 
fusing the  like  privilege  to  her  enemy  ? 

XVII.  Do  those  laws  authorize  the  United  States  to  permit 
to  France  the  erection  of  courts  within  their  territory  and  juris- 
diction, for  the  trial  and  condemnation  of  prizes — refusing  that 
privilege  to  a  power  at  war  with  France  ? 

XVIII.  If  any  armed  vessel  of  a  power  at  war  with  another, 
with  whom  the  United  States  are  at  peace,  shall  make  prize  of 
the  subjects  or  property  of  its  enemy  within  the  territory  or 
jurisdiction  of  the  United  States,  have  not  the  United  States  a 
right  to  cause  restitution  of  such  prize  ?  Are  they  bound  or  not 
by  the  principles  of  neutrality  so  to  do,  if  such  prize  shall  be 
within  their  power  ? 

XIX.  To  what  distance,  by  the  laws  and  usages  of  nations, 
may  the  United  States  exercise  the  right  of  prohibiting  the  hos- 
tilities of  foreign  powers  at  war  with  each  other,  within  rivers, 


jEt.36.]  cabinet   papers.  453 

bays,  and  arms  of  the  sea,  and  upon  the  sea  along  the  coasts  of 
the  United  States? 

XX.  Have  vessels  armed  for  war,  under  commission  from 
a  foreign  power,  a  right,  without  the  consent  of  the  United 
States,  to  engage  within  their  jurisdiction  seamen  and  soldiers, 
for  the  service  of  such  vessels,  being  citizens  of  that  power,  or 
of  another  foreign  power,  or  citizens  of  the  United  States  ? 

XXI.  Is  it  lawful  for  the  citizens  of  such  power,  or  citizens 
of  the  United  States,  so  to  engage,  being  within  the  jurisdiction 
of  the  United  States  ? 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Philadelphia,  July  27th,  1793. 

Dear  Sir: 

After  giving  the  subject  of  loans  the  most  attentive  consider- 
ation I  am  able,  under  the  several  explanations  which  have 
been  required  and  received  from  you,  my  mind  has  resolved 
itself  into  the  form  of  the  inclosed  paper.  But  if  there  is  any 
material  objection  to  the  measure  there  directed,  unad verted  to 
by  me,  I  am  ready  and  willing  to  hear  it ;  otherwise  it  may  be 
carried  into  effect  without  delay.  There  is  a  blank  to  fill  up — ■ 
to  do  which  I  pray  you  to  furnish  me  with  the  sum. 

I  am,  &c 


WASHINGTON   TO   HAMILTON. 

Philadelphia,  July  27th,  1793. 

Sir: 

I  have  considered  your  application  for  liberty  to  borrow 
three  millions  of  florins,  in  addition  to  the  one  million  now  in 
train  of  being  borrowed. 

It  appears  from  the  documents  which  you  have  laid  before 


454  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

me,  that  284,901  dollars  and  89  cents  have  been  applied  to  the 
purchase  of  the  general  debt ;  and  that  by  the  act  of  2d  March, 

1793,  200,000  dollars  of  the  money  for  that  use  have  been  em- 
ployed in  discharging  the  instalment  due  to  the  Bank  of  the 
United  States.  The  sum,  then,  which  may  still  be  borrowed, 
under  the  act  of  the  12th  August,  1790,  being  1,515,098  dollars 
and  11  cents,  and  it  being  very  desirable  to  embrace  the  present 
season  for  purchasing,  I  am  of  opinion  that  a  loan  should  be 
opened  to  that  amount. 

In  like  manner,  as  the  balance  of  foreign  loans  now  in 
the  Treasury,  which  appears  from  the  same  documents  to  be 
565,484  dollars  and  28  cents,  may  be  absorbed  by  the  instal- 
ments of  the  French  debt  due  in  September  and  November  next, 
and  another  instalment  of  the  Dutch  loan  will  fall  due  in  June,, 

1794,  and  will  require  the  sum  of  1,000,000  florins,  I  am  also  of 
opinion  that  a  loan  ought  to  be  effected  to  that  amount. 

Geo.  Washington. 


WASHINGTON  TO  THE  HEADS  OF  DEPARTMENTS  AND  THE  ATTOR- 
NEY GENERAL. 

Draft  by  Hamilton. 

Philadelphia,  29  July,  1793. 

Gentlemen  : 

It  will  not  be  amiss,  I  conceive,  at  the  meeting  you  are  a^out 
to  have  to-day,  to  consider  the  expediency  of  directing  the  cus- 
tom-house officers  to  be  attentive  to  the  arming  or  equipping  ves- 
sels, either  for  offensive  or  defensive  war,  in  the  several  ports  to 
which  they  belong,  and  make  report  thereof  to  the  governor  or 
some  other  proper  officer. 

Unless  this,  or  some  other  effectual  mode  is  adopted  to  check 
this  evil  in  the  first  stage  of  its  growth,  the  Executive  of  the  United 
States  will  be  incessantly  harassed  with  complaints  on  this  head;, 
and  probably  when  it  may  be  difficult  to  afford  a  remedy. 
I  am,  &c. 


jEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  455 


WASHINGTON  TO   HAMILTON. 

Philadelphia,  August  3.  1793. 

Dear  Sir  : 

Motives  of  justice,  friendship  and  candor,  induce  me  to  send 
the  inclosed  for  jour  perusal.  Let  me  know  the  truth  of  this 
matter,  what  answer  is  proper  to  be  given  to  it,  and  by  whom. 

The  writer  is  urgent  to  receive  one,  having  called  once  or 
twice  since  the  delivery  of  it  for  this  purpose. 

I  am,  &c, 

Geo.  Washington. 

The  inclosed  alluded  to  above,  was  a  complaint  from  A.  Gr. 
Erauncis,  respecting  the  withholding  payment  of  certificates 
which  he  conceived  he  was  entitled  to,  and  which  his  statement 
explains. 


CABINET  OPINION — RANDOLPH  TO  WASHINGTON. 
On  the  question,  whether  Congress  be  now  called,  August  3,  1793. 

At  a  past  day  this  question  was  agitated;  and  it  was  the 
unanimous  opinion,  that  Congress  should  not  be  then  called.  A 
revision  of  that  opinion  confirms  me  in  its  propriety.  Some  fur- 
ther reasons,  therefore,  amounting  to  what  the  Constitution  calls 
an  u extraordinary  occasion"  must  have  occurred  since,  if  that 
opinion  is  to  be  relinquished. 

If  those  reasons  be  not  well  founded,  to  what  extent  may  not 
the  alarm  be  carried  both  here  and  in  Europe  ?  Every  imagina- 
tion will  be  racked  to  discover  the  extraordinary  occasion ;  and 
there  can  be  no  doubt  that  dangers  of  every  possible  kind  will 
be  supposed  to  surround  this  country.  Public  credit  will  be 
shaken  by  new  suspicions ;  and  the  belligerent  powers  will  enter- 
tain one  most  hazardous  to  us,  that  the  Executive  foresee  that 


456  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  gJB*.  36. 

we  cannot  escape  the  war.  In  the  latter  case,  the  nations  who 
least  expect  our  favor  may  possibly  hasten  to  anticipate  our 
power  of  hostility. 

Still,  however,  if  the  extraordinary  occasion  exists,  it  must 
be  obeyed.     But  does  it  exist? 

1.  The  war  with  the  western  Indians  has  a  chance  of  being 
ended,  or  at  least  has  not  assumed  any  terrors,  against  which 
we  are  not  prepared.  It  may  indeed  become  more  formidable, 
by  embracing  greater  bodies  of  Indians ;  but  no  ground  yet  ap- 
pears for  such  a  calculation. 

2.  The  southern  Indians  are  to  be  apprehended.  But  a  peace 
with  the  western  Indians  would  leave  the  army  free  to  act 
against  the  southern ;  an  enterprise  cannot  be  set  on  foot  by 
Congress,  if  now  called,  early  enough  to  seize  any  part  of  this 
year,  and  April  is  supposed  to  be  the  best  season  for  operations. 

3.  The  determination  to  procure  Mr.  Gr.'s  recall,  is  an  affair 
for  which  the  President  is  not  accountable  to  any  other  order  of 
the  government.  It  is  not  feared,  that  such  a  measure  will  pro- 
duce any  convulsions ;  but  on  the  contrary,  ought  to  conciliate 
the  public  affection,  and  particularly  the  affection  of  those  who 
wish  to  see  the  dignity  of  government  or  its  peace  maintained. 

4.  Although  the  acquittal  of  G.  Henfield  is  a  proof,  that  the 
jury,  under  all  the  circumstances  of  his  case,  thought  him  inno- 
cent ;  the  law  was  announced  with  firmness  and  decision  by  the 
judges.  Another  trial  may  be  expected  to  have  a  different 
result ;  and  to  call  Congress,  because  he  was  acquitted,  would 
argue,  that  the  Executive  had  lost  confidence  in  its  own  judg- 
ment, which  originally  dictated  the  prosecution,  although  it  has 
been  corroborated  by  that  of  the  Court. 

5.  At  the  same  time,  it  must  be  acknowledged,  that  it  would 
be  a  great  relief  to  the  President,  and  Congress  would  be  ready 
for  all  events,  if  they  were  earlier  assembled.  But  what  advan- 
tage can  be  obtained  in  point  of  time  ?  Not  more  than  a  month. 
And  is  it  worth  the  risk  of  spreading  a  general  alarm  for  such 
an  acquisition  of  time  ?  Will  it  not  be  said,  that  the  President 
has  gone  as  far  and  as  long  as  he  could  without  Congress ;  and 
finding  his  career  by  himself  closed  or  anxious  to  save  appear- 


At.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  457 

ances,  lie  is  now  at  length  desirous  of  sharing  the  burthen  with 
them? 

Being  unable  therefore  to  discover  any  special  reasons  for 
calling  Congress,  equal  in  weight  to  those  against  it,  or  any  ade- 
quate motives  in  the  general  complexion  of  affairs,  I  am  of  opin- 
ion that  Congress  ought  not  now  to  be  summoned. 

Em.  Kandolph. 


CABINET  OPINION. 

August  3,  1793. 

I.  The  original  arming  and  equipping  of  vessels  in  the  ports 
of  the  United  States  by  any  of  the  belligerent  parties,  for  military 
service,  offensive  or  defensive,  is  deemed  unlawful. 

II.  Equipments  of  merchant  vessels  by  either  of  the  bellige- 
rent parties  in  the  ports  of  the  United  States,  purely  for  the 
accommodation  of  them  as  such,  is  deemed  lawful. 

III.  Equipments  in  the  ports  of  the  United  States  of  vessels 
of  war  in  the  immediate  service  of  the  government  of  any  of  the 
belligerent  parties,  which,  if  done  to  other  vessels,  would  be  of 
a  doubtful  nature,  as  being  applicable  either  to  commerce  or 
war,  are  deemed  lawful,  except  those  which  shall  have  made 
prize  of  the  subjects,  people  or  property  of  France  coming  with 
their  prizes  into  the  ports  of  the  United  States,  pursuant  to  the 
seventeenth  article  of  our  Treaty  of  Amity  and  Commerce  with 
France. 

IV.  Equipments  in  the  ports  of  the  United  States  by  any  of 
the  parties  at  war  with  France,  of  vessels  fitted  for  merchandise 
and  war,  whether  with  or  without  commissions,  which  are  doubt- 
ful in  their  nature  as  being  applicable  either  to  commerce  or 
war,  are  deemed  lawful,  except  those  which  shall  have  made 
prize,  &c. 

V.  Equipments  of  any  of  the  vessels  of  France  in  the  ports 
of  the  United  States,  which  are  doubtful  in  their  nature,  as  being 
applicable  to  commerce  or  war,  are  deemed  lawful. 


458  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

VI.  Equipments  of  every  kind  in  the  ports  of  the  United 
States,  of  privateers  of  the  powers  at  war  with  France,  are 
deemed  unlawful. 

VII.  Equipments  of  vessels  in  the  ports  of  the  United  States, 
which  are  of  a  nature  solely  adapted  to  war,  are  deemed  unlaw- 
ful ;  except  those  stranded  or  wrecked,  as  mentioned  in  the 
eighteenth  article  of  our  treaty  with  France,  the  sixteenth  of  our 
treaty  with  the  United  Netherlands,  the  ninth  of  our  treaty  with 
Prussia,  and  except  those  mentioned  in  the  nineteenth  article  of 
our  treaty  with  France,  the  seventeenth  of  our  treaty  with  the 
United  Netherlands,  the  eighteenth  of  our  treaty  with  Prussia. 

VIII.  Vessels  of  either  of  the  parties  not  armed,  or  armed  pre- 
vious to  their  coming  into  the  ports  of  the  United  States,  which  shall 
not  have  infringed  any  of  the  foregoing  rules,  may  lawfully  engage 
or  enlist  therein  their  own  subjects  or  citizens,  not  being  inhabit- 
ants of  the  United  States,  except  privateers  of  the  power  at 
war  with  France,  and  except  those  vessels  which  have  made 
prize,  &c. 

Aug.  3, 1793. 
The  foregoing  rules,  having  been  considered  by  us  at  several 
meetings,  and  being  now  unanimously  approved,  they  are  sub- 
mitted to  the  President  of  the  United  States. 

Thomas  Jefferson, 
Alexander  Hamilton, 
H.  Knox, 
Edm.  Kandolph. 


JEFFERSON  TO   WASHINGTON. 

Aug.  4:  1793. 

The  President  having  been  pleased  to  propose,  for  considera- 
tion, the  question,  Whether  it  be  proper  or  not  to  convene  the 
legislature  at  an  earlier  period  than  that  at  which  it  is  to  meet 
by  law  ?  and  at  what  time  ?  I  am  of  opinion  it  will  be  proper. 


jEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  459 

I.  Because  the  protection  of  our  southern  frontier  seems  to 
render  indispensable  a  war  with  the  Creeks,  which  cannot  be 
declared,  nor  provided  for  but  by  the  legislature,  nor  prudently 
undertaken  by  the  Executive,  on  account  of  the  consequences  it 
may  involve  with  respect  to  Spain. 

II.  Because  several  legislative  provisions  are  wanting  to 
enable  the  government  to  steer  steadily  through  the  difficulties 
daily  produced  by  the  war  of  Europe,  and  to  prevent  our  being 
involved  in  it  by  the  incidents  and  perplexities  to  which  it  is 
constantly  giving  birth. 

III.  Because  should  we  be  involved  in  it,  which  is  every  day 
possible,  however  anxiously  we  endeavor  to  avoid  it,  the  legisla- 
ture meeting  a  month  earlier  will  place  them  a  month  forwarder 
in  their  provisions  for  that  state  of  things. 

I  think  the  first  Monday  in  November  would  be  a  proper 
time  for  convening  them,  because  while  it  would  gain  a  month 
in  making  provisions  to  prevent  or  prepare  for  war,  it  leaves 
such  a  space  of  time  for  their  assembling,  as  will  avoid  exciting 
alarm  either  at  home  or  abroad. 


KNOX  TO  WASHINGTON. 

War  Department,  August  5,  1793. 

Sir: 

It  was  on  the  3d  instant  agreed  between  the  heads  of  the  de- 
partments and  the  Attorney-General,  that  each  individual  should 
submit  his  opinion  to  you  in  writing,  upon  the  propriety  of  call- 
ing Congress  together  before  the  period  at  which  they  are  to  be 
assembled. 

In  the  present  state  of  things  in  this  country,  as  well  as  in 
Europe,  an  expectation  of  uncommon  events  has  been  generally 
excited.  The  prudent  and  sober  part  of  the  community  regard, 
as  in  the  case  of  a  storm,  the  mind  and  countenance  of  the  chief 
pilot.    While  he  remains  confident  and  composed,  happiness  is 


460  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

diffused  around ;  but  when  he  doubts,  then  anxiety  and  fear  has 
its  full  effect. 

Most  of  the  cases  which  have  yet  occurred  as  relative  to 
foreign  powers,  have  been  the  proper  business  of  the  Executive, 
and  the  opinions  of  the  Judiciary  seem  to  indicate  that  all  the 
measures  hitherto  adopted  for  the  preservation  of  the  peace,  have 
been  proper  and  wise.  For  any  case  of  a  similar  nature  which 
may  probably  arise  prior  to  the  session  of  Congress,  it  is  proba- 
ble the  powers  of  the  President  may  be  adequate. 

The  Southern  Indian  business  may  indeed  require  the  early 
attention  of  Congress^  But  when  it  shall  be  considered  that  this 
attention  could  be  anticipated  but  a  little,  and  that  a  winter's 
campaign,  according  to  General  Pickens'  opinion,  would  be  an 
hazardous  operation,  much  would  not  be  gained  by  calling  Con- 
gress together  one  month  sooner  than  they  would  otherwise 
assemble ;  for  it  may  be  doubted,  whether  if  a  proclamation 
should  be  issued  immediately,  that  a  full  Congress  would  be  as- 
sembled much  before  the  first  day  of  November. 

If  then  to  gain  one  month  only  Congress  should  be  called,  it 
is  probable  the  public  mind,  both  at  home  and  abroad,  would  be 
filled  with  doubts  and  perplexities,  public  credit  might  be 
affected,  and  great  domestic  distress  ensue. 

After  placing  this  question  in  several  attitudes,  the  balance 
of  my  mind  is,  that  it  is  probable  the  measure  of  calling  Congress 
together  at  this  time,  would  produce  greater  evil  than  good. 


CABINET   OPINION. — HAMILTON   TO   WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia.  Aug.  5th.  1793. 

I  doubt  the  expediency  of  specially  convening  the  Congress 
at  this  time,  for  the  following  reasons : 

The  Constitution  requires  that  an  extraordinary  occasion 
should  exist  as  the  basis  of  the  exercise  of  the  power  of  the 
President  to  convene  the  legislature. 


Mr.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  461 

It  is  not  perceived  that  any  circumstance  now  exists  which 
did  not  exist  months  ago,  of  sufficient  force  to  constitute  an  ex- 
traordinary occasion. 

The  war  in  Europe  existed  then,  as  it  does  now.  Indian 
affairs  are  not  understood  to  be  at  this  time  in  a  worse,  if  in  so 
bad  a  posture  as  they  have  been  for  a  considerable  time  past. 

Some  additional  incidents  have  indeed  fallen  out — the  de- 
cision with  regard  to  Mr.  Genet's  recall,  the  verdict  of  the  jury 
in  the  case  of  Henfield,  the  supposed  decree  of  the  National  Con- 
vention affecting  our  treaty  of  commerce  with  France. 

But,  with  regard  to  the  first,  it  would  be  only  a  reason  for 
the  measure  as  far  as  the  circumstance  may  be  supposed  likely  to 
produce  a  war  with  France.  According  to  ordinary  calculations, 
such  a  consequence  ought  not  to  be  looked  for ;  and  the  prudence 
is  very  questionable  of  manifesting  by  any  public  act  that  the 
Executive  did  look  for  it. 

The  second  is  a  matter  which,  under  the  circumstances, 
seems  not  of  sufficient  weight.  The  judges  who  tried  the  cause 
were  united  in  their  opinion  of  the  law.  The  jury  are  uni- 
versally believed  in  this  city  to  have  been  selected  for  the  pur- 
pose of  acquittal,  so  as  to  take  off  much  the  force  of  the  example, 
and  to  afford  no  evidence  that  other  juries  would  pursue  the 
same  course. 

The  supposed  decree  of  the  National  Convention  is  an  im- 
portant consideration ;  but  its  authenticity  is  not  yet  out  of  ques- 
tion, and  it  could  hardly  be  acted  upon  till  that  was  ascertained. 
And,  indeed,  it  will  deserve  examination,  whether  the  Executive 
would  not  itself  be  competent  to  whatever  it  would  be  prudent 
to  do  in  the  case. 

The  objections  to  the  measure  at  this  time  are,  that  unless 
there  are  reasons  of  sufficient  force  now  for  adopting  it,  which 
did  not  exist  before,  the  taking  the  step  now  would  impeach  the 
omitting  of  it  hitherto,  and  would  expose  the  Executive  to 
much  criticism  and  animadversion ;  that  the  meeting  of  Congress 
could  scarcely  be  accelerated  for  more  than  a  month,  allowing,  as 
ought  to  be  done,  due  time  for  the  knowledge  of  the  call  to 
diffuse  itself  throughout  the  United  States,  for  the  members  to  pre- 


462  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

pare  for  coming,  and  for  the  distant  ones  to  perform  the  jonrney. 
Sufficient  time  ought  to  be  given  for  a  full  house.  A  month  is 
so  short  a  period  as  not  to  form  a  material  object,  and  as  conse- 
quently to  bring  into  greater  question  the  propriety  of  acting 
upon  grounds  not  much  if  any  thing  stronger  than  existed  when 
a  call  would  have  produced  a  considerable  acceleration.  In  pro- 
portion to  the  shortness  of  the  period  gained  would  be  the  public 
anxiety  and  alarm  at  the  measure.  It  would  be  construed  into 
an  indication  that  something  very  extraordinary  and  urgent  had 
occurred,  and  abroad  as  well  as  at  home  much  speculation  would 
be  excited.  This  consideration,  which  was  always  a  weighty  ob- 
jection to  anticipating  the  meeting  of  Congress  by  a  special  call, 
has  now  great  additional  force  for  the  reason  just  assigned. 


CABINET  OPINION". 

August  5th,  1793. 

At  a  meeting  of  the  Heads  of  Departments  and  the  Attorney- 
General  at  the  Secretary  of  State:s  office,  August  5th,  1793. 

The  case  of  the  Swallow,  letter  of  marque  at  New- York, 
desired  to  be  sent  out  of  our  ports,  as  being  a  privateer,  it  is  the 
opinion  that  there  is  no  ground  to  make  any  order  on  the  sub- 
ject. 

The  Polly  or  Eepublican,  in  the  hands  of  the  marshal  at 
New- York,  on  a  charge  of  having  been  armed  in  our  ports  to 
cruise  against  nations  at  peace  with  the  United  States,  it  is  the 
opinion  that  there  is  no  ground  to  make  any  new  order  in  this 
case. 

The  Little  Democrat,  the  Vainqueur  de  la  Bastille,  the 
Citoyen  Genet,  and  the  Sans  Culottes,  a  letter  to  be  written  to 
Mr.  Genet  as  was  determined  on  the  3d  instant,  and  an  in- 
struction in  conformity  therewith  be  given  to  the  governors. 
Mr.  Hammond  to  be  informed  thereof,  and  to  be  assured  the  gov- 
ernment will  effectuate  their  former  resolution  on  this  subject. 


JEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  463 

The  Lovely  Lass,  the  Prince  William  Henry,  and  the  Jane 
of  Dublin,  prizes  to  the  Citoyen  Genet,  Mr.  Genet  to  be  written 
to  as  was  agreed  on  the  3d  instant. 

The  brig  Fanny  and  ship  William,  reclaimed  as  taken  within 
the  limits  of  our  protection,  as  it  is  expected  that  the  Court  of 
Admiralty  may  very  shortly  reconsider  whether  it  will  take 
cognizance  of  these  cases,  it  is  thought  better  to  take  no  new 
measure  therein  for  the  present. 

The  schooner  fitting  out  at  Boston,  as  mentioned  in  a  letter  of 
Mr.  Gore  to  Mr.  Lear.  The  Governor  of  Massachusetts  to  be 
written  to  to  suppress  her. 

Mr.  Delaney's  letter  of  the  24th  of  July,  on  the  question 
whether  duties  are  to  be  paid  on  prize  goods  landed  for  sale,  it 
is  the  opinion  that  they  are  to  be  paid. 

A  letter  from  Mr.  Genet  of  the  4th  of  August,  informing  the 
Secretary  of  State  that  certain  inhabitants  lately  arrived  from 
St.  Domingo,  are  combining  to  form  a  military  expedition  from 
the  territory  of  the  United  States  against  the  constituted  authori- 
ties of  the  said  Island.  It  is  the  opinion  that  the  Governor 
of  Maryland  be  informed  thereof,  (because  in  a  verbal  commu- 
nication to  the  Secretary  of  State,  Mr.  Genet  had  named  Balti- 
more as  the  place  where  the  combination  was  forming,)  and  that 
he  be  desired  to  take  measures  to  prevent  the  same. 

Th.  Jeferson, 
Alexander  Hamilton, 
H.  Knox. 

The  Secretary  of  State  and  Attorney-General  are  of  opinion 
that  Mr.  Hammond  be  informed  that  measures  are  taking  to  pro- 
cure restoration  of  the  prizes  the  Lovely  Lass,  The  Prince  William 
Henry,  and  the  Jane  of  Dublin,  and  in  case  that  cannot  be  effect- 
ed, that  government  will  take  the  subject  into  further  consider- 
ation. 

The  Secretaries  of  the  Treasury  and  of  War,  are  of  opinion 
that  Mr.  Hammond  be  informed  that  measures  are  taking  to 
effect  the  restoration  of  the  prizes  the  Lovely  Lass,  The  Prince 
William  Henry,  and  the  Jane  of  Dull  in ;  that  in  case  this  shall  not 


464  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^Et.  36. 

be  effected,  the  President  considers  it  as  incumbent  upon  the 
United  States  to  make  compensation  for  those  prizes ;  and  that 
prizes  in  similar  circumstances  which  shall  be  hereafter  brought 
into  the  ports  of  the  United  States  will  be  restored. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

8th  August,  1793. 

The  present  being,  and  being  likely  to  continue  for  some 
time  a  favorable  season  for  purchases  of  the  public  debt,  and  as 
it  appears  that  the  whole  or  the  greatest  part  of  the  unexpended 
moneys  of  the  foreign  loans  heretofore  made,  will  be  requisite 
for  satisfying  the  approaching  instalments  of  our  debt  to  France, 
and  which  it  has  been  judged  expedient  to  pay,  without  deduction 
for  any  prior  advance.  It  appearing,  moreover,  from  the  state- 
ments submitted  by  you  to  my  consideration,  that  of  the  sum 
authorized  to  be  borrowed  by  the  act  entitled,  "  An  act  making 
provision  for  the  reduction  of  the  public  debt,"  there  may  still 
be  procured  for  the  purpose  of  that  act,  the  sum  of  1,515,98  dol- 
lars and  11  cents.  I  do  therefore  direct  and  require  that  you 
take  immediate  measures  for  obtaining  a  loan  or  loans  to  the  ex- 
tent of  the  sum  aforesaid,  to  be  applied  to  purchases  of  the  public 
debt,  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  the  act  above  mentioned. 

Provided  always,  that  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the  said 
loan  or  loans  shall  be  according  to  law.  Given  under  my  hand 
at  Philadelphia,  the  eighth  day  of  August,  1793. 

G.  W. 

To  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury. 

You  having  stated  to  me  that  there  will  be  due  and  payable 
on  the  first  of  June  next,  on  account  of  the  loans  heretofore  made 
by  the  United  States  in  Holland,  the  sum  of  one  million  of 
florins,  I  do  therefore  hereby  direct,  that  you  will  take  mea- 
sures for  procuring  in  due  time,  by  way  of  loan,  the  said  sum  of 


jEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  465 

one  million  of  florins,  to  be  applied  to  the  payment  of  the  afore- 
said instalments.  Provided  always,  that  the  terms  and  condi- 
tions of  the  said  loan  or  loans  be  according  to  law.  Given  under 
my  hand  at  Philadelphia,  the  8th  day  of  August,  1793. 

g.  w. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Philadelphia,  Aug.  10,  1793*.. 

Dear  Sir: 

I  thank  you  for  giving  me  the  perusal  of  the  letters  to-  you,, 
which  are  herewith  returned ;  and  I  pray  you  to  draft,,  on  my 
behalf,  what  you  may  conceive  to  be  a  short,  but  proper  and  re- 
spectful response  to  the  letter  of  the  Chairman,  or  to  the  resolves, 
or  to  both,  as  you  shall  judge  best,  (for  they  come  in  a  form  so  un- 
usual that  I  scarcely  know  the  mode  that  will  be  most  eligible,) 
and  let  me  be  furnished  therewith  to-morrow  evening,  or  early 
on  Monday  morning. 

Quere.  If  the  introduction  of  G.  C.  in  the  resolutions  affords 
a  good  occasion  to  notice  the  promptness  and  efficacy  of  his  aid, 
and  that  of  all  the  Governors,  (as  far  as  facts  are  known  to  me,) 
where  there  has  been  occasion  for  their  exertion — would  it  not 
be  good  policy  to  make  proper  mention  thereof? 

Yours,  always,  Geo.  Washington.. 


HAMILTON  TO  SHORT. 

Treasury  Department,  August  12th,  1793; 

Sir: 

It  is  thought  expedient  to  take  measures  for  obtaining  a  loan 
in  Holland,  of  three  millions  of  florins ;  though  it  should  not  be 
obtainable  on  lower  terms  than  five  per  cent.,  interest,  and.  four 
per  cent,  charges. 
D  30 


466  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

With  a  view  to  this,  and  not  expecting  jour  presence  at  the 
Hague  at  the  time  this  letter  shall  reach  Holland,  I  have  ad- 
dressed the  requisite  instructions  for  the  purpose  immediately  to 
our  Commissioners  at  Amsterdam,  a  copy  of  which  is  here  in- 
closed for  your  information.  This  will  explain  to  you  the  par- 
ticular motive  which  suggested  the  expediency  of  the  loan  in 
question. 

I  request  a  co-operation  on  your  part  in  whatever  may  be 
necessary  to  give  the  business  its  proper  form. 


HAMILTON  TO   W.    &   J.   WILLINK,   N.    &   J.   VAN   STAPHOEST    AND 

HUBBARD,   BANKERS,   AMSTERDAM. 

Treasury  Department,  August  12, 1793. 

Gentlemen  : 

I  have  lately  the  pleasure  of  your  letters  of  the  22d  of  April 
and  1st  of  May. 

The  last  was  particularly  acceptable,  as  it  removed  all  anxiety 
about  the  June  payment  in  a  mode  quite  satisfactory  to  me. 

The  low  prices  at  which  our  stocks  have  been  for  some  time 
past,  owing  to  the  state  of  affairs  in  Europe  (which  has  tended 
to  lower  them  in  two  ways — by  lessening  the  foreign  demand, 
and  by  opening  new  channels  for  the  more  beneficial  employ- 
ment of  our  domestic  capital),  indicate  the  expediency  of  extend- 
ing the  purchases  of  stock  on  account  of  the  government,  which 
at  present  yields  a  very  decided  advantage. 

Upon  this  ground  it  is  judged  advisable  to  endeavor  to  ob- 
tain a  loan  in  Holland  for  three  millions  of  florins ;  though  bet- 
ter terms  should  not  be  obtainable  than  five  per  cent,  interest  and 
four  per  cent,  charges. 

Not  expecting  that  Mr.  Short  will  be  in  Holland  when  this 
letter  reaches  you,  and  having  full  confidence  in  your  pure  zeal 
for  the  interests  of  the  United  States,  I  have  concluded  to  ad- 
dress an  instruction  for  the  above  purpose  immediately  to  you. 


jEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  467 

In  the  event,  therefore,  of  Mr.  Short's  not  being  in  Holland 
when  this  letter  is  received,  you  will  take  measures  of  yourselves 
to  obtain  a  loan  for  the  above  sum,  within  the  limit  above  speci- 
fied. 

I  count,  nevertheless,  upon  your  zealous  exertions,  if  the 
state  of  the  market  should  possibly  admit  of  it,  to  obtain  the 
loan  at  a  lower  rate  of  interest.  The  success  of  your  endeavors 
for  that  purpose  will  be  particularly  gratifying  to  me,  and  will 
be,  in  more  than  one  way,  useful  to  our  affairs. 

It  is  important,  too,  that  I  should  receive  the  earliest  advice 
of  what  you  shall  do. 

The  inclosed  letter  for  Mr.  Short  advises  him  of  the  present 
arrangement,  and  desires  him  to  co-operate  in  whatever  may  be 
necessary  to  give  the  business  due  form. 

With  great  and  real  consideration  and  esteem,  I  am,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO   WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  Aug.  14.  1793. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  has  the  honor  respectfully  to 
communicate  to  the  President  of  the  United  States  the  copy  of  a 
letter  which  has  this  moment  been  received  from  the  Collector 
of  this  port,  informing  of  the  arrival  of  two  prizes  sent  in  by 
the  privateers  Citizen  Genet  and  Carmagnole. 


CABINET  OPINION. 


August  15,  1793. 
That  the  Minister  of  the  French  republic  be  informed  that 
the  President  considers  the  United  States  as  bound  by  positive 
assurances,  given  in  conformity  to  the  laws  of  neutrality,  to  ef- 


468  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  |>Et.  36. 

fectuate  the  restoration  of,  or  to  make  compensation  for,  prizes 
which  shall  have  been  made  of  any  of  the  parties  at  war  with 
France,  subsequent  to  the  5th  day  of  June  last,  by  privateers 
fitted  out  of  their  ports. 

That  it  is  consequently  expected  that  he  will  cause  restitution 
to  be  made  of  all  prizes  taken  and  brought  into  our  ports  subse- 
quent to  the  above-mentioned  day  by  such  privateers ;  in  defect 
of  which  the  President  considers  it  as  incumbent  upon  the  United 
States  to  indemnify  the  owners  of  those  prizes ;  the  indemnifica- 
tion to  be  reimbursed  by  the  French  nation. 

That  besides  taking  efficacious  measures  to  prevent  the  future 
fitting  out  of  privateers  in  the  ports  of  the  United  States,  they 
will  not  give  asylum  therein  to  any  which  shall  have  been  at  any 
time  so  fitted  out,  and  will  cause  restitution  of  all  such  prizes  as 
shall  be  hereafter  brought  within  their  ports  by  any  of  the  said 
privateers. 

That  instructions  be  sent  to  the  respective  Governors  in  con- 
formity to  the  above  communication. 

The  foregoing  having  been  duly  considered,  and  being  now 
unanimously  approved,  they  are  submitted  to  the  President  of 
the  United  States. 

Thomas  Jefferson, 
Alexander  Hamilton, 
Henry  Knox, 
Edmund  Kandolph. 


CABINET   OPINION. 

Aug.  23d,  1793. 
At  a  meeting  of  the  Heads  of  Departments  and  the  Attorney- 
General  at  the  President's,  on  the  1st  and  2d  of  August,  1793, 
on  a  review  of  the  whole  of  Mr.  Genet's  correspondence  and  con- 
duct, it  was  unanimously  agreed,  that  a  letter  should  be  written 
to  the  Minister  of  the  United  States  at  Paris,  stating  the  same  to 


JEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  469 

him,  resuming  the  points  of  difference  which  had  arisen  between 
the  government  of  the  United  States  and  Mr.  Genet,  assigning 
the  reasons  for  the  opinions  of  the  former,  and  desiring  the  recall 
of  the  latter ;  and  that  this  letter,  with  those  which  have  passed 
between  Mr.  Genet  and  the  Secretary  of  State,  and  other  neces- 
sary documents,  shall  be  laid  by  Mr.  Morris  before  the  Executive 
of  the  French  government. 

At  a  meeting  of  the  same  at  the  President's,  August  15th,  the 
rough  draft  of  the  said  letter,  having  been  prepared  by  the  Sec- 
retary of  State,  was  read  for  consideration,  and  it  was  agreed  that 
the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  should  take  measures  for  obtaining 
a  vessel,  either  by  hire  or  purchase,  to  be  sent  to  France  express 
with  the  dispatches  when  ready. 

At  a  meeting  of  the  same  at  the  President's,  August  20th, 
said  letter  was  read  and  corrected  by  paragraphs,  and  finally 
agreed  to. 

At  a  meeting  of  the  same  at  the  President's,  August  23d,  it 
was  agreed  that  the  preceding  letter  should  bear  the  date  of  the 
last  document  which  is  to  accompany  it,  to  wit,  August  16th ; 
and  the  draft  of  a  second  letter  to  our  Minister  at  Paris  was  read 
and  unanimously  approved,  and  to  bear  date  this  day. 

Sealed  and  signed  this  23d  day  of  August,  1793. 

Th.  Jefferson, 
Alexander  Hamilton, 
H.  Knox, 
Edm.  Kandolph. 


NOTES    BY    HAMILTON,     TO    FRAME    LETTER    OF    SECRETARY    OF 
STATE  TO   GOU VERNE UR  MORRIS,    MINISTER   AT   PARIS. 

1793. 

I.  Explanation  of  fitting  out  privateers  in  Charleston,  put  on 
footing  of  there  being  no  law. 

II.  Letter  persisting  in  objection  to  it. 


470  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  36. 

III.  Eeclaims  Gideon  Henfield. 

IV.  Very  moderate  answer,  that  courts  will  do  right. 
Y.  Concerning  sloop  Eepublican. 

1.  Issuing  commissions  a  mere  consular  act. 

2.  Insists  on  right  of  arming  for  defence. 

3.  Speaks  of  treaty  permitting  to  enter. 

4.  Armed — to  equip  themselves. 

5.  France  always  in  practice  of  issuing  commissions. 

6.  Will  give  orders  to  consuls  to  take  precautions  to  re- 

spect our  territory — political  opinions  of  President. 

7.  Insists  on  right  of   arming  vessels — abandonment 

unworthy  its  friends. 
In  waiting  until  representatives  of  sovereign  had  re- 
solved to  adopt  or  reject. 

VII.  Complaint  of  proceedings  of  District  Court  against  the 
William — persons  labor  secretly  to  have  misunderstood. 

VIII.  Letter  concerning  debt — accomplish  infernal  system — 
since  the  federal  government  without  consulting  Congress. 

IX.  Awkwardness — Governor  avails  himself  of  political  opin- 
ions. 

X.  Letter — opinions,  private  and  public,  of  President — on 
s'est  empresse  Je  ne  scais  sous  quelle  influence  impressions 
etrangeres — complains  of  obstruction  to  consular  jurisdiction. 

XL  Letter  concerning  sloop  William  requiring  relinquish- 
ment. 

XII.  Letter  concerning  another  vessel  in  same  situation. 

XIII.  Letter  concerning  Little  Democrat — letter  on  account 
of  the  state  to  augment  the  marine  of  France — commission,  &c. 

I.  Blamed  in  a  conversation  the  judicial  proceedings  of  the 
consul — ought  only  to  have  made  a  ministerial  inquiry. 
1.  Case  of  the  Swallow. 


iEx.36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  471 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Philadelphia,  Aug.  27th,  1793. 

Dear  Sir: 

You  would  oblige  me  by  drafting  an  answer  to  the  inclosed 
address  from  Kichmond,  Virginia. 

If  you  can  conveniently  do  it  to  go  by  the  post  of  to-morrow, 
it  would  be  wished ;  if  not,  it  will  do  very  well  against  Friday's 
post. 

If  you  are  not  engaged,  and  will  take  dinner  with  me  to-day,  I 
should  be  glad  of  your  company.  Governor  Blount  and  General 
Pickens  will  be  here. 

Yours  always  and  sincerely, 

Geo.  Washington. 


cabinet  opinion. 

Draft  by  Hamilton. 

Aug.  31,  1793. 
At  a  meeting  of  the  Heads  of  Departments  and  Attorney- 
General,  at  the  President's,  on  the  31st  day  of  Aug.,  1793,  a  let- 
ter from  Mr.  Gore  to  Mr.  Lear,  dated  Boston,  Aug.  24,  was  read, 
stating  that  the  Roland,  a  privateer  fitted  out  at  Boston,  and  fur- 
nished with  a  commission  under  the  government  of  France,  had 
sent  a  prize  into  that  port,  which,  being  arrested  by  the  Marshal 
of  the  District  by  process  from  a  court  of  justice,  was  rescued 
from  his  possession  by  Mr.  Du  Plaine,  Consul  of  France,  with  an 
armed  force  from  one  of  the  ships  of  his  nation.  It  is  the  opinion, 
that  the  Attorney  of  the  District  be  instructed  to  institute  such 
prosecution  as  the  laws  will  authorize  against  the  said  Du  Plaine, 
and  to  furnish  to  the  government  of  the  United  States  authentic 
evidence  of  the  facts  before  mentioned,  thereon,  if  it  shall  ap- 
pear that  the  rescue  was  made  by  the  said  Du  Plaine,  or  his 
order,  it  is  the  opinion  that  his  Exequatur  should  be  revoked ; 


472  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

also,  that  the  Attorney  of  the  District  be  desired  to  furnish 
copies  of  his  applications  or  other  correspondence  with  the  Gov- 
ernor of  Massachusetts  relative  to  the  several  privateers  and 
prizes  which  have  been  the  subject  of  his  letters  to  Mr.  Lear. 

A  letter  from  Mr.  Maury,  Consul  of  the  United  States  at 
Liverpool,  dated  July  4,  1793,  was  read,  covering  an  authen- 
ticated copy  of  certain  additional  instructions  from  the  Court  of 
St.  James  to  the  commanders  of  their  ships  of  war,  dated  June 
8,  1793,  permitting  them  to  stop  the  vessels  of  neutral  nations 
laden  with  corn,  flour  or  meal,  and  bound  to  any  port  of  France, 
and  to  send  them  into  British  ports ;  from  thence  they  are  not  to 
be  permitted  to  proceed  to  the  port  of  any  country  not  in  amity 
with  Great  Britain.  Thereupon,  it  is  the  opinion  that  Mr. 
Pinckney  be  provisionally  instructed  to  make  representations  to 
the  British  Ministry  on  the  said  instruction  as  contrary  to  the 
rights  of  neutral  nations,  and  to  urge  a  revocation  of  the  same, 
and  full  indemnification  to  any  individuals,  citizens  of  these 
States,  who  may  in  the  mean  time  suffer  loss  in  consequence  of 
the  said  instruction.  Also,  that  explanations  be  desired  by  Mr. 
Pinckney  of  the  reasons  of  the  distinction  made  in  the  2d  article  of 
the  said  instructions  between  the  vessels  of  Denmark  and  Sweden 
and  those  of  the  United  States  attempting  to  enter  blockaded  ports. 

Information  having  been  also  received  through  the  public 
papers  of  a  decree,  passed  the  National  Assembly  of  France, 
revoking  the  principle  of  free  ships  making  free  goods,  and 
enemy  ships  making  enemy  goods,  and  making  it  lawful  to  seize 
neutral  vessels  bound  with  provisions  to  any  other  country,  and 
carry  them  into  the  ports  of  France,  there  to  be  landed  and  paid 
for.  And  also  of  another  decree  excepting  the  vessels  of  the 
United  States,  from  the  operation  of  the  preceding  decrees.  It 
is  the  opinion  that  Mr.  Morris  be  provisionally  instructed,  in  case 
the  first  mentioned  decrees  have  passed  and  not  the  exceptions, 
to  make  representations  thereon  to  the  French  government  as 
contrary  to  the  treaty  existing  between  the  two  countries,  and 
the  decree  relative  to  provisions,  contrary  also  to  the  law  of 
nations  ;  and  to  require  a  revocation  thereof  and  full  indemnifica- 
tion to  any  citizens  of  these  States  who  may,  in  the  mean  time, 


jEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  473 

have  suffered  loss  therefrom,  and  also  in  case  the  said  decrees  and 
the  exceptions  were  both  passed,  that  then  a  like  indemnification 
be  made  for  losses  intervening  between  the  dates  of  the  said 
decrees  and  exceptions. 

A  letter  from  the  Governor  of  Georgia,  of  the  13th  instant, 
covering  the  proceedings  of  a  Council  of  War,  relatively  to  an 
expedition  against  certain  towns  of  the  Creek  Nation,  was  com- 
municated for  consideration. 

It  is  the  opinion  that  the  Governor  of  Georgia  be  informed 
that  the  President  disapproves  the  measure  as  unauthorized  by 
law,  as  contrary  to  the  present  state  of  affairs  and  to  the  instruc- 
tions heretofore  given,  and  expects  that  it  will  not  be  proceeded 
in ;  that,  requiring  the  previous  consideration  of  Congress,  it  will 
be  submitted  to  them  at  their  ensuing  session,  if  circumstances 
shall  not  then  render  it  unnecessary  or  improper ;  that  the  Gover- 
nor of  South  Carolina  be  also  informed  that  the  co  operation 
desired  of  him  by  the  Governor  of  Georgia  is  not  to  be  afforded  ; 
and  that  the  agent  for  procuring  supplies  of  provisions  for  the 
service  of  the  United  States  in  Georgia,  be  instructed  that  no 
provisions  are  to  be  furnished  on  their  account  for  the  purpose 

of  the  said  expedition. 

Thomas  Jefferson, 

Alexander  Hamilton, 

H.  Knox, 

Edm.  Eandolph. 


WASHINGTON   TO   HAMILTON. 

Philadelphia,  Sept.  6,  1793. 

My  Dear  Sir  : 

With  extreme  concern  I  receive  the  expression  of  your 
apprehensions,  that  you  are  in  the  first  stages  of  the  prevailing 
fever.  I  hope  they  are  groundless,  notwithstanding  the  malig- 
nancy of  the  disorder  is  so  much  abated,  as  with  proper  and 
timely  applications  not  much  is  to  be  dreaded. 


474  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  36. 

The  inclosed  was  written  and  sent  to  your  office  yesterday, 
with  direction  if  you  were  not  there  to  be  brought  back.  And 
it  would  be  a  pleasing  circumstance  if  a  change  so  entirely 
favorable  as  to  justify  it,  would  permit  your  attendance,  and  to 
bring  Mrs.  Hamilton  with  you  to  dine  with  us  at  three  o'clock. 

I  am  always  and  affectionately  yours, 

George  Washington. 


JEFFERSON  TO   HAMILTON. 

Philadelphia.  Sept.  12,  1793. 

Sir: 

I  have  the  honor  to  inclose  you  a  paper  delivered  me  by  Mr. 
Bournonville,  on  the  part  of  the  Minister  of  France,  reclaiming 
against  the  demand  of  tonnage  on  the  vessels  which  came  hither 
from  the  West  Indies  in  their  late  calamity.  It  is  urged  that 
they  were  driven  out  of  their  harbors  by  superior  force,  and 
obliged  to  put  to  sea  without  water  or  stores,  and  therefore  to 
make  the  first  port  where  they  could  be  relieved,  which  con- 
stitute, in  their  opinion,  those  circumstances  of  distress  and 
necessity,  which  exempt  vessels  from  the  payment  of  tonnage. 
This  case  belongs  to  your  department ;  I  take  the  liberty  in  the 
absence  of  the  President,  and  to  save  time,  to  transmit  it  to  you 
directly  for  your  consideration. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 

Thomas  Jefferson. 


WASHINGTON    TO     THE    INHABITANTS     OF     RICHMOND     AND     ITS 

VICINITY. 

September  18th,  1793. 

Fellow-Citizens  : 

Among  the  numerous  expressions  of  the  public  sense  in 
favor  of  the  measures  which  have  been  adopted  for  the  observ- 


Mt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  475 

ance  of  neutrality  in  the  present  war  of  Europe,  none  is  more 
grateful  to  me  than  that  of  Eichmond  and  its  vicinity. 

The  manner  in  which  it  is  conveyed  lays  claim  to  my  af- 
fectionate acknowledgments. 

In  recollecting  the  anticipations  which  were  entertained  of  a 
pacific  policy,  as  most  consonant  with  the  situation  of  the  United 
States  and  the  genius  of  our  government,  it  is  a  pleasing  reflec- 
tion, that  when  the  occasion  for  exemplifying  it  occurs,  senti- 
ments corresponding  with  it  appear  to  pervade  every  part  of  the 
community.  This  steadiness  of  views  highly  honorable  to  the 
national  character,  is  well  calculated  to  support,  in  the  adminis- 
tration of  our  affairs,  a  spirit  constantly  favorable  to  the  great 
object  of  peace. 

And  though  the  best  and  sincerest  endeavors  to  this  end 
may  sometimes  prove  ineffectual,  yet  it  will  always  be  a  source 
of  consolation  and  encouragement,  that  the  calamities  of  war,  if 
at  any  time  they  shall  be  experienced,  have  been  unsought  and 
unprovoked.  Every  good  citizen  will,  then,  meet  events  with 
that  firmness  and  perseverance  which  naturally  accompany  the 
consciousness  of  a  good  cause — the  conviction  that  there  is  no 
ground  for  self-reproach. 

True  to  our  duties  and  interests  as  Americans — firm  to  our 
purpose  as  lovers  of  peace — let  us  unite  our  fervent  prayers  to 
the  Great  Kuler  of  the  universe,  that  the  justice  and  moderation 
of  all  concerned  may  permit  us  to  continue  in  the  uninterrupted 
enjoyment  of  a  blessing  which  we  so  greatly  prize,  and  of  which 
we  ardently  wish  them  a  speedy  and  permanent  participation. 

George  Washington. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Mount  Vernon,  September  25th,  1793. 


My  dear  Sir: 

I  congratulate  you  and   Mrs.  Hamilton  very  sincerely  on 
your  recoveries  from  the  malignant  fever  which  prevailed  in 


476  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  36. 

Philadelphia,  and  hope  you  are  both  restored  to  perfect  health, 
and  that  no  other  of  the  family  has  been  seized  with  the  dis- 
order. In  these  sentiments,  Mrs.  Washington  cordially  unites 
with  me. 

From  Mr.  Jefferson,  who  has  just  passed  this;  from  General 
Knox,  who  has  set  out  for  Boston;  and  from  the  accounts 
published  in  the  gazettes  ;  I  conceive  that,  under  the  most  favor- 
able change  that  can  reasonably  be  expected,  the  1st  of  November 
is  as  soon  as  business  can,  with  safety,  be  transacted  in  the  city 
of  Philadelphia,  But  it  appears  necessary,  at  all  events,  that 
the  Heads  of  Departments  should  assemble,  if  not  at  that  place, 
yet  in  the  vicinity  of  it  (say  Germantown),  at  that  time,  where 
I  also  shall  be,  if  well.  My  compliments  to  Mrs.  Hamilton, 
and  respects  to  General  Schuyler  and  family,  if  you  are  with 
them. 

I  am  always,  and  with  much  truth, 

Yours,  affectionately, 

George  Washington. 


WASHINGTON  TO   HAMILTON. 

Mount  Vernon,  October  14th,  1793. 

Dear  Sir: 

Inclosed  is  the  duplicate  of  my  last.  The  calamity  which 
has  befallen  Philadelphia,  and  seems  in  no  wise  to  abate,  renders  it 
more  essential  than  ever  for  the  Heads  of  Departments  to  assem- 
ble, that  proper  measures  with  respect  to  the  public  offices  and 
papers  may  be  adopted.  It  is  time,  also,  if  the  President  can 
with  propriety  interpose,  to  decide  something  with  respect  to 
the  meeting  of  Congress ;  but  what,  is  difficult ;  some  being  of 
opinion  that  there  is  no  power  vested  in  the  Executive,  under 
any  circumstances,  to  change  the  place  of  meeting,  although 
there  is  power  to  call  Congress  together  upon  extraordinary  oc- 
casions ;  others  think,  admitting  this,  the  exigency  of  the  case 


jEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS,  477 

would  warrant  the  measure.  It  is  a  delicate  situation  for  the 
President  to  be  placed  in.  What  would  you  advise  in  this  pre- 
dicament ?  If  to  call  Congress  together,  where,  for  the  ensuing 
session  ?  The  public  offices  and  papers  being  difficult  and  ex- 
pensive to  remove  to  any  distance,  and  the  delicate  situation  it 
would  throw  the  Executive  into,  by  naming  a  place  far  from  the 
present  establishment,  my  wishes  would  be  Germantown,  if  the 
place  is  free  from  the  fever,  for  the  reasons  I  have  mentioned ; 
but,  as  none  can  take  a  more  comprehensive  view,  and  I  flatter 
myself,  a  less  partial  one,  of  the  subject,  than  yourself,  and  as  a 
letter  from  you  may  reach  me  before  we  shall  meet,  I  pray  you 
to  dilate  fully  upon  the  several  points  here  brought  to  your  con- 
sideration. 

I  shall  be  at,  or  somewhere  about,  Germantown,  at  the  time 
mentioned  in  the  inclosed,  and  therefore  shall  only  add  what  I 
persuade  myself  you  are  already  satisfied  of,  that  I  am,  with 
much  truth  and  sincerity, 

Dear  Sir, 

Your  affectionate 

Geokge  Washington. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

2£  Miles  from  Philadelphia,  October  24,  1793. 

Sir: 

I  arrived  at  my  house  yesterday  evening,  where  I  found 
your  letter  of  the  14th  instant ;  having  previously  received  that 
of  the  25th  of  September,  by  the  circuitous  route  of  Albany,  the 
evening  before  my  departure  from  New-York. 

As  to  the  right  of  the  President  to  convene  Congress  out  of 
the  ordinary  course,  I  think  it  stands  as  follows — "he  may  on  ex- 
traordinary occasions  convene  both  houses  of  Congress  or  either 
of  them."  These  are  the  words  of  the  Constitution.  Nothing  is 
said  as  to  time  or  place — nothing  restrictive  as  to  either ;  I  there- 
fore think  they  both  stand  on  the  same  footing.     The  discretion 


478  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36 

of  the  President  extends  to  place  as  well  as  time.  The  reason  of 
the  thing  as  well  as  the  words  of  the  Constitution  would  extend 
it  to  both.  The  usual  seat  of  the  government  may  be  in  posses- 
sion of  an  enemy,  it  may  be  swallowed  up  by  an  earthquake. 

I  know  of  no  law  that  abridges  in  this  respect  the  discretion 
of  the  President — if  a  law  could  abridge  a  constitutional  discre- 
tion of  either  branch. 

But  the  doubt  with  me  is  whether  the  "  extraordinary  occa- 
sion" mentioned  in  the  Constitution,  be  not  some  unforeseen 
occurrence  in  the  public  affairs,  which  renders  it  advisable  for 
the  public  service  to  convene  Congress  at  some  time  different 
from  that  which  the  Constitution  or  some  law  has  established ; 
in  other  words,  to  anticipate  their  ordinary  meeting,  to  have  a 
special  session  for  a  special  object  of  public  business  out  of  the  pre- 
established  course. 

I  doubt  therefore,  whether  the  circumstance  of  a  contagious 
disease  existing  at  the  seat  of  government,  be  a  constitutional 
ground  for  convening  Congress  at  another  place,  but  at  the  same 
time,  they  had  premeditated. 

And  I  know  that  there  are  respectable  opinions  against  the 
power  of  the  President  to  change  the  place  of  meeting  in  such  a 
case,  so  as  I  think  to  render  it  inexpedient  to  take  the  step. 

But  the  President  may  recommend  a  meeting  at  some  other 
place,  as  a  place  of  preliminary  rendezvous  for  the  members  of 
the  two  houses,  that  they  may  informally  concert  what  further 
the  exigency  may  require,  and  my  present  opinion  inclines  in 
favor  of  such  a  measure. 

The  question  then  would  be,  what  place  is  the  most  eligible. 
Obvious  reasons  render  it  desirable  that  it  should  be  as  near  Phi- 
ladelphia as  may  consist  with  the  motive  for  naming  such  a 
place,  (to  wit,)  the  safety  of  the  members.  I.  Innovation  upon 
the  existing  arrangement  with  regard  to  the  seat  of  government, 
ought  to  be  avoided  as  much  as  possible.  II.  Congress  may 
think  it  necessary  for  regularity  to  go  within  the  limits  of  the 
city  (though  but  for  an  hour),  to  give  legality  by  some  summary 
act  to  another  place  of  meeting ;  and  with  this  view  it  will  be 
convenient  to  meet  at  no  great  distance  from  the  city.  III.  The 
place  recommended  may  influence  the  place  of  session.     The 


JEt.  36.] 


CABINET    PAPERS.  479 


President  and  Heads  of  Departments  ought  to  be  near  Congress, 
but  they  cannot  be  long  remote  from  their  offices,  and  a  removal 
of  the  public  offices  for  one  session  would  be  in  many  ways  an 
evil.  Lastly,  the  less  the  President  in  such  cases  departs  from 
the  pre-established  course,  the  less  room  there  will  be  for  cavil. 

All  these  reasons  would  operate^  in  favor  of  German  town,  if 
competent  only  to  the  momentary  accommodation  of  Congress. 
Mr.  Peters  and  some  other  gentlemen  affirm  that  it  is.  I  have 
myself  great  doubt  on  the  point,  and  I  have  not  had  time  to  ex- 
amine, but  I  cannot  help  paying  deference  to  the  opinion  of 
those  who  assert  its  competency. 

There  is,  however,  another  consideration  not  unworthy  of 
attention.  Experience  seems  to  decide  satisfactorily  that  there 
would  be  due  safety  at  Germantown ;  but  it  is  very  probable,  this 
would  not  appear  to  be  the  case  to  the  members  generally.  The 
alarm  appears  to  be  greatest  in  proportion  as  you  go  furthest 
from  the  seat  of  the  disease.  Yet  I  should  hope  the  President's  re- 
commendation stating  the  fact  as  evidenced  by  experience  would 
appease  the  apprehensions  of  the  parties  concerned. 

If  Germantown  should  not  be  found  adequate,  on  the  score 
of  accommodation,  Trenton,  Eeading,  Lancaster  and  Wilming- 
ton, are  the  places  which  present  themselves  to  choice  as  most 
eligible ;  nothing  more  northerly  or  southerly  ought  to  be 
thought  of.  A  place  in  Pennsylvania  will  best  please  the  Penn- 
sylvanians.  They  would  be  very  jealous  of  Trenton,  and  they 
would  have  some,  though  less  jealousy  of  Wilmington ;  Lancas- 
ter would  afford  better  accommodation  than  Reading.  Wilming- 
ton would,  I  apprehend,  be  the  most  agreeable  of  these  places  to 
Congress. 

But  I  am,  upon  the  whole,  of  opinion  that  it  will  be  best  to 
make  Germantown  do  if  possible.  It  will  be  time  enough  to  de- 
cide when  you  arrive,  and  the  interval  will  be  employed  to  ex- 
amine the  ground. 

Mrs.  Hamilton  and  myself  are  very  sensible  to  the  obliging 
interest  you  have  manifested  on  our  recovery.     Exercise  and 
northern  air  have  restored   us  beyond  expectation.     We  are 
very  happy  that  Mrs.  Washington  and  yourself  escaped. 
I  have  the  honor  to  remain,  &c, 


480  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 


CABINET  OPINION. 

At  sundry  meetings  of  the  Heads  of  Departments  and  Attor- 
ney-General, from  the  1st  to  the  21st  of  November,  1793,  at  the 
President's,  several  matters  were  agreed  upon  as  stated  in  the 
following  letters  from  the  Secretary  of  State,  to  wit : 

Nov.  8. — Circular  letter  to  the  Eepresentatives  of  France, 
Great  Britain,  Spain,  and  the  United  Netherlands,  fixing  provis- 
ionally the  extent  of  our  jurisdiction  into  the  sea  at  a  sea-league. 

Nov.  10. — Circular  letter  to  the  District- Attorneys,  notifying 
the  same,  and  committing  to  them  the  taking  depositions  in  those 
cases. 

Same  date. — Circular  to  the  foreign  representatives,  notifying 
how  depositions  are  to  be  taken  in  those  cases. 

The  substance  of  the  preceding  letters  were  agreed  to  by  all, 
and  the  rough  drafts  were  submitted  to  them  and  approved. 

Nov.  14. — Letter  to  Mr.  Hammond,  that  the  United  States  are 
not  bound  to  restore  the  Kochampton.  This  was  agreed  to  by 
all.  The  rough  draft  was  submitted  to  be  approved  by  Col. 
Hamilton  and  Mr.  Eandolph.  Gen.  Knox  was  absent  on  a  visit 
to  Trenton. 

Nov.  10. — Letters  to  Mr.  Genet  and  Mr.  Hammond,  and  the 
14th,  to  Mr.  Hollingsworth,  for  taking  depositions  in  the  case  of 
the  Coningham  and  Pilgrim. 

Nov.  15. — Letters  to  Genet,  Hammond,  and  Mr.  Eawle,  for 
depositions  in  the  case  of  the  William. 

Nov.  14. — Letter  to  Hollingsworth,  to  ascertain  whether  Mr. 
Morissonier  had  passed  sentence  on  the  Eochampton  and  Pilgrim. 

These  last-mentioned  letters  of  the  10th,  14th,  and  15th,  were 
as  to  their  substance  agreed  on  by  all;  the  drafts  were  only 
communicated  to  Mr.  Eandolph  and  approved  by  him. 

Nov.  13. — To  Mr.  Hammond,  inquiring  when  we  shall  have 
an  answer  on  the  inexecution  of  the  treaty.  The  substance 
agreed  on  by  all.  The  letter  was  sent  off  without  communica- 
tion, some  of  the  gentlemen  being  at  Germantown. 

Nov.  22. — To  Mr.  Genet,  returning  the  commissions  of  Pen- 
nevest  and  Cheni,  because  not  addressed  to  the  President. 


^t.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  481 

Same  date. — To  Mr.  Genet,  inquiring  whether  the  Lovely 
Lass,  Prince  William  Henry,  and  Jane  of  Dublin,  have  been 
given  up,  and  if  not,  requiring  that  they  be  now  restored  to 
owners. 

These  were  agreed  to  by  all  as  to  their  matter,  and  the  letters 
themselves  were  submitted  before  they  were  sent  to  the  Presi- 
dent, the  Secretary  of  War,  and  the  Attorney-General,  the  Sec- 
retary of  the  Treasury  absent. 

Same  date. — To  Mr.  Gore,  for  authentic  evidence  of  Daunery's 
protest  on  the  President's  revocation  of  Duplaine's  exequatur. 
The  substance  agreed  to  by  all.  The  letter  sent  off  before  com- 
munication. 

Th.  Jefferson, 

H.  Knox, 

Edm.  Kandolph, 

Alexander  Hamilton. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Fair  Hill,  Nov.  3d,  1793. 

Sir: 

Not  having  been  in  condition  to  attend  you  yesterday,  and 
(though  free  from  fever)  yet  not  being  well  enough  to  go  abroad 
immediately,  I  have  concluded  to  submit  to  you  by  a  line  the 
result  of  my  further  reflections  on  the  subject  of  my  last  letter. 

I  believe  it  will  be  altogether  safe  for  the  ensuing  session  of 
Congress  to  be  held  at  Philadelphia,  and  that  the  good  of  the 
public  service  requires  it,  if  possible.  Under  the  existing  pros- 
pect, I  do  not  think  it  would  be  advisable  for  the  President  to 
give  the  business  a  different  direction  by  any  preliminary  step. 
But  as  the  apprehensions  of  distant  members  will  probably  be 
too  much  alive,  it  is  desirable  they  should,  if  possible,  be  brought 
in  the  vicinity  of  Philadelphia  some  days  beforehand,  to  examine 
and  judge  for  themselves.  It  is  likely  they  will  then  be  satisfied 
d  31 


482  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  36. 

that  they  can  safely  sit  in  the  city.  If  otherwise,  their  senti- 
ments concerning  another  place  can  be  collected,  as  a  guide  to 
the  President.  To  effect  this  end,  I  would  advise  that  circular 
letters  be  written  (say  by  the  Attorney-General,  the  Secretary  of 
State  not  being  here)  to  the  respective  members,  informally  re- 
commending to  them,  as  on  the  part  of  the  President,  to  repair 
to  Germantown  and  its  vicinity  some  days,  not  more  than  a  week, 
prior  to  the  day  for  the  meeting  of  Congress  ;  giving  the  reasons 
for  this  recommendation. 

I  prefer  this  to  any  public  act,  because  there  is  an  inconve- 
nience in  giving  any  sort  of  formality  to  an  unauthoritative 
proceeding. 

An  objection  to  the  proceeding  is,  that  the  remote  Southern 
members  cannot  be  reached  in  time.  But  the  answer  to  this  is, 
that  they  will  probably  come  forward  of  course  to  some  neigh- 
boring State — New- York,  Delaware,  or  Maryland — and  letters 
for  them  may  be  lodged  in  each. 

With  true  respect  and  attachment,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


SUNDRY  MATTERS  TO  BE  COMMUNICATED  FOR  THE  INFORMA- 
TION OF  CONGRESS,  EITHER  IN  THE  SPEECH  AT  THE  OPEN- 
ING OF  THE  SESSION,  OR  BY  MESSAGES  THEREAFTER,  AS 
SHALL   BE  THOUGHT  BEST. 

Draft  by  Washington. 

November,  1793. 

Proclamation  informing  the  United  States  of  the  actual  state 
of  things  as  they  stood  between  them  and  the  powers  at  war. 

State  of  our  application  respecting  the  surrender  of  the  West- 
ern posts. 

Additional  instructions  of  his  Britannic  Majesty  relative  to 
corn,  &c.  in  neutral  vessels. 

State  of  matters  as  it  respects  our  negotiations  with  Spain — 
relative  to  territory  and  the  navigation  of  the  river  Mississippi. 


^Et.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  483 

Correspondence  with  Mr.  Genet,  minister  from  the  French 
republic. 

The  impediments  which  have  taken  place  in  the  intended 
ransom  of  our  citizens,  captives  in  Algiers,  and  treaty  with  the 
Barbary  States. 

Treaty  attempted  with  the  Western  Indians,  and  the  result 
of  it. 

March  of  the  army  in  consequence  of  it  delayed  by  the  sus- 
pension we  were  held  in  thereby. 

State  of  matters  as  they  relate  to  the  Creeks  and  Cherokees ; 
and  to  the  frontiers  of  Georgia  and  the  South- Western  Territory. 

Would  not  a  trade  on  public  ground  with  all  the  bordering 
tribes  of  Indians  (if  they  can  once  be  made  sensible  of  their  folly 
by  the  superiority  of  our  arms)  be  an  effectual  mean  of  attaching 
them  to  us  by  the  strongest  of  all  ties,  interest  ? 

The  utility  of  establishing  proper  arsenals,  unfolds  itself  more 
and  more  every  day ;  and  the  propriety  of  a  military  academy 
for  teaching  the  art  of  gunnery  and  engineering,  can  scarcely  be 
doubted.  A  war  at  any  time  would  evince  the  impropriety  of 
such  a  neglect. 

Might  it  not  be  expedient  to  take  off  the  tax  upon  the  trans- 
portation of  newspapers,  &c.  ? 

An  act  of  the  legislature,  south-west  of  the  Ohio,  passed  No- 
vember 20th.  1792,  deposited  in  the  Secretary  of  State's  office. 

As  both  Kepresentatives  and  President  are  newly  chosen, 
and  it  is  their  first  meeting,  may  it  not  be  a  good  occasion,  and 
proper  for  the  latter  to  express  his  sentiments  of  the  honor  con- 
ferred on  him  by  his  fellow-citizens  ?  The  former  is  an  aug- 
mented body.  The  times  are  critical ;  and  much  temper,  and 
cool,  deliberate  reflection  is  necessary  to  maintain  peace  with 
dignity  and  safety  to  the  United  States. 

Appointments  during  the  recess  of  Congress  to  be  laid  before 
the  Senate. 


484  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 


HEADS  OF  SUBJECTS. 
By  E.  Randolph. 

Heads  of  subjects  to  be  communicated  to  Congress  ;  some  at  the  open- 

ing1  others  by  messages. 

1.  The  proclamation,  and  the  reasons  for  issuing  it,  together 
with  an  observation  on  the  French  treaty. 

2.  The  selling  of  prizes  in  our  ports. 

3.  The  engagement  concerning  compensation  for  vessels  cap- 
tured under  certain  circumstances. 

4.  The  propriety  of  vesting  the  federal  courts  with  power  to 
aid  the  Executive  in  cases  of  capture. 

5.  The  enaction  of  a  particular  penalty  against  consuls  of 
foreign  nations  opening  courts  in  the  United  States. 

6.  The  necessity  of  providing  means  for  commanding  respect 
from  foreign  vessels  which  are  refractory. 

7.  To  submit  to  Congress,  whether  it  be  better  to  rest  the 
jurisdictional  claim  into  the  sea  as  it  stands,  or  to  assert  a  parti- 
cular distance  by  law. 

8.  The  abortive  attempt  to  treat  with  the  Western  Indians. 

9.  The  situation  of  the  United  States  with  respect  to  France, 
Great  Britain,  and  Spain. 

10.  Military  intelligence. 

11.  To  provide  some  other  place  for  the  sessions  of  Congress, 
in  case  that  of  their  last  sitting  should  be  improper,  &c. 

12.  Has  any  loan  been  effected  which  ought  to  be  commu- 
nicated ? 

Quere.  Whether  Mr.  Genet's  propositions  as  to  commerce 
are  to  be  sent  to  the  Senate  executively,  or  to  Congress. 

13.  The  memorial  on  the  guarantee. 


Mr.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  485 


OBJECTS  TO  BE  COMMUNICATED   IN   SPEECH  AND  MESSAGES. 

By  Hamilton. 

I.  Proclamation. 

II.  Embarrassments  in  carrying  into  execution  the  principles 
of  neutrality  ;  necessity  of  some  auxiliary  provisions  by  law.  .  .  . 

III.  Expectation  of  indemnification  given  in  relation  to  illegal 
captures. 

IV.  State  of  our  affairs  with  regard  to  Great  Britain,  Spain, 
and  France — claim  of  Guarantee — propositions  respecting  Trade. 

V.  Indian  affairs — failure  of  Treaty — state  of  expedition 
under  Wayne — prospects  with  regard  to  Southern  Indians. 

VI.  Prudence  of  additional  precautions  for  defence,  as  the 
best  security  for  the  peace  of  the  country. 

1. '  Fortification  of  principal  sea-ports. 
2.  Corps  of  efficient  militia. 

VII.  Completion  of  settlement  of  Accounts  between  the 
United  and  Individual  States  ;  Provision  for  balances. 

VIII.  Provision  for  a  sinking  fund. 

IX.  Our  revenues  in  the  aggregate  have  continued  to  answer 
expectation  as  to  productiveness,  but  if  the  various  objects 
pointed  out,  and  which  appear  to  be  necessary  to  the  public 
interest,  are  to  be  accomplished,  it  can  hardly  be  hoped  that 
there  will  not  be  a  necessity  for  some  moderate  addition  to  them. 

X.  Prolongation  of  the  Dutch  instalment  by  way  of  loan 
■  terms. 

XI.  Provision  for  the  second  instalment  due  to  Bank  of 
United  States. 

XII.  For  interest  in  the  unsubscribed  debt  during  the  present 
year.     Quere. 

XIIL  Communication  of  the  state  of  cessions  of  Light-houses. 
The  cession  in  various  instances  has  not  been  entire;  it  has 
reserved  a  partial  right  of  jurisdiction  for  process ;  consequently 
is  not  strictly  conformable  to  law. 

XIV.  Commissary  to  receive,  issue  and  account  for  all  public 
stores,  would  conduce  much  to  order  and  economy. 


486  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  36. 


president's  speech. 

Draft  by  Hamilton. 

1793. 

It  is  greatly  to  be  lamented,  for  the  sake  of  humanity,  that 
the  flame  of  war,  which  had  before  spread  over  a  considerable 
part  of  Europe,  has,  within  the  present  year,  extended  itself 
much  further;  implicating  all  those  powers  with  whom  the 
United  States  have  the  most  extensive  relations.  When  it  was 
seen  here,  that  almost  all  the  maritime  nations  either  were,  or 
were  likely  soon  to  become  parties  to  the  war,  it  was  natural  that 
it  should  excite  serious  reflections  about  the  possible  conse- 
quences to  this  country.  On  the  one  hand,  it  appeared  desirable, 
that  no  impressions  in  reference  to  it  should  exist  with  any  of  the 
powers  engaged,  of  a  nature  to  precipitate  arrangements  or 
measures  tending  to  interrupt  or  endanger  our  peace.  On  the 
other  it  was  probable,  that  designing  or  inconsiderate  persons 
among  ourselves,  might,  from  different  motives,  embark  in  enter- 
prises contrary  to  the  duties  of  a  nation  at  peace  with  nations  at 
war  with  each  other ;  .  .  .  .  and,  of  course,  calculated  to  invite 
and  to  produce  reprisals  and  hostilities.  Adverting  to  these  con- 
siderations, in  a  situation  both  new  and  delicate,  I  judged  it 
advisable  to  issue  a  proclamation  (here  insert  the  substance  of  the 
proclamation).  The  effects  of  this  measure  have,  I  trust,  neither 
disappointed  the  views  which  dictated  it,  nor  disserved  the  true 
interests  of  our  country. 

The  Commissioners  charged  with  the  settlement  of  Accounts 
between  the  United  and  the  Individual  States,  completed  that 
important  business  within  the  time  limited  by  law  ;  and  the  bal- 
ances which  they  have  reported,  have  been  placed  upon  the 
Books  of  the  Treasury.  A  copy  of  their  Report,  bearing  date 
the         day  of  last,  will  be  laid  before  Congress  for  their 

information. 

The  importance  of  the  object  will  justify  me  in  recalling  to 
your  consideration  the  expediency  of  a  regular  and  adequate 
provision  for  the  redemption  and  discharge  of  the  Public  Debt. 


^t.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  487 

Several  obvious  considerations  render  the  economy  of  time,  in 
relation  to  this  measure,  peculiarly  interesting  and   desirable. 

It  is  necessary  that  provision  should  be  also  made  for  paying 
the  second  instalment  of  the  loan  of  two  millions  from  the  Bank 
of  the  United  States,  agreeably  to  the  terms  of  that  loan ;  the 
first  having  been  paid,  pursuant  to  the  provisions  for  that  pur- 
pose, made  during  the  last  session. 

On  the  first  day  of  June  last  an  instalment  of  1,000,000  of 
florins  became  payable  on  the  loans  of  the  United  States  in  Hol- 
land. This  was  adjusted  by  a  prolongation  of  the  period  of 
reimbursement,  in  nature  of  a  new  loan,  at  an  interest  of  five  per 
cent.,  for  the  term  of  ten  years.  The  charges  upon  this  opera- 
tion were  a  commission  of  three  per  cent.  It  will  readily  be  per- 
ceived that  the  posture  of  European  affairs  is  calculated  to  affect 
unfavorably  the  measures  of  the  United  States  for  borrowing 
abroad. 

The  productiveness  of  the  public  revenues  hitherto  has  con- 
tinued to  equal  the  anticipations  which  were  formed  of  it ;  but 
it  is  not  expected  that  it  will  prove  commensurate  with  all  the 
objects  which  have  been  suggested.  Some  auxiliary  provisions 
will,  therefore,  it  is  presumed,  be  requisite ;  but  these,  it  is  hoped, 
can  be  made  consistently  with  a  due  regard  to  the  convenience  of 
our  citizens,  who  cannot  but  be  sensible  of  the  true  wisdom  of 
encountering  a  small  present  addition  to  their  contributions  for 
the  public  service,  to  avoid  a  future  accumulation  of  burthens. 


RANDOLPH  TO   HAMILTON. 

Germantown,  Nov.  15th,  1793. 

Sir: 

Your  letter  of  the  9th  instant  was  delivered  to  me  yesterday. 

It  is  a  desirable  thing  for  the  cause  of  humanity,  that  the 
vessels  therein  described  should  be  exempted  from  tonnage. 
But  this  must  be  the  act  of  the  legislature,  and  cannot  arise 


488  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  36. 

from  the  construction  of  the  collection  law — the  cause  of  their 
quitting  the  island  of  St.  Domingo   not  being  the  species  of 
necessity  contemplated  by  that  act. 
I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  Nov.  23d,  1793. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  upon  two  letters  from  the 
Minister  Plenipotentiary  of  France  to  the  Secretary  of  State, 
severally  bearing  elate  the  11th  and  14th  of  November  inst., 
respectfully  reports  to  the  President  of  the  United  States  as 
follows : 

1.  The  object  of  these  letters  is,  to  procure  an  engagement 
that  the  bills  which  the  minister  may  draw  upon  the  sums, 
which,  according  to  the  terms  of  the  contracts  respecting  the 
French  debt,  would  fall  due  in  the  years  1794  and  1795,  shall 
be  accepted  on  the  part  of  the  United  States,  paj^able  at  the 
periods  stipulated  for  the  payment  of  those  sums  respectively. 

The  following  considerations  are  submitted,  as  militating 
against  the  proposed  arrangement : 

1.  According  to  the  view  entertained  at  the  Treasury  of  the 
situation  of  the  account  between  France  and  the  United  States, 
adjusting  equitably  the  question  of  depreciation,  there  have  al- 
ready been  anticipated  payments  to  France,  equal  or  nearly 
equal  to  the  sums  falling  due  in  the  course  of  the  year  1794. 

2.  The  provision  by  law  for  discharging  the  principal  of  the 
French  debt,  contemplates  only  loans.  Of  those  which  have 
been  hitherto  made,  the  sum  unexpended  is  not  more  than  com- 
mensurate with  a  payment  which  is  to  be  made  on  the  1st  of 
June  next,  upon  account  of  the  capital  of  the  Dutch  debt.  It  is 
possible  that  a  fund  for  this  payment  may  be  derived  from  an- 
other loan ;  but  it  is  known  to  the  President  that,  from  advices 
recently  received,  fall  reliance  cannot  be  placed  on  this  resource) 


jEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  489 

owing  to  the  influence  of  the  present  state  of  European  affairs 
upon  the  measures  of  the  United  States  for  borrowing.  It  need 
not  be  observed,  that  a  failure  in  making  the  payment  referred 
to,  would  be  ruinous  to  the  credit  of  the  United  States. 

The  acceptance  of  the  bills  of  the  Minister  of  France,  would 
virtually  pledge  the  only  fund  of  which  there  is,  at  present,  a 
certainty  for  accomplishing  that  payment ;  and  as  this  is  a  mat- 
ter of  strict  obligation,  directly  affecting  the  public  credit,  it 
would  not  appear  advisable  to  engage  that  fund  for  a  different 
object,  which,  if  the  ideas  of  the  Treasury  are  right  with  regard 
to  the  state  of  our  account  with  France,  does  not  stand  upon  a 
similar  footing. 

It  would  be  manifestly  unsafe  to  presume  upon  contingencies, 
or  to  enter  into  engagements  to  be  executed  at  distant  periods, 
when  the  means  of  execution  are  uncertain. 

But,  as  there  appears  to  be  a  difference  of  opinion  between  the 
Minister  of  France  and  the  Treasury,  with  regard  to  the  state  of 
the  account  between  the  two  countries,  it  is  necessary  that  some- 
thing on  this  head  should  be  ascertained.  With  this  view,  the 
Secretary  of  the  Treasury  will  proceed,  without  delay,  to  take 
arrangements  for  the  adjustment  of  the  account. 

Alexander  Hamilton, 

Secretary  of  the  Treasury. 


HAMILTON   TO   WASHINGTON. 

November  23d,  1793. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  presents  his  respects  to  the 
President.  He  regrets  extremely  that  the  state  of  his  health 
does  not  permit  him  to  attend  the  President  to-day.  He  has  the 
honor  to  inclose  a  report  on  two  of  the  letters  to  Mr.  Genet,  and 
would  have  embraced  the  third,  respecting  the  protested  bills,  if 
it  had  been  in  his  power.  But  no  inconvenience  can  in  this  case 
ensue,  as  the  supposed  mistake  with  regard  to  the  funds  already 


490  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

promised  has  been  adjusted,  and  the  inclosed  report  embraces 
and  answers  the  question  of  advance  upon  a  future  fund.  The 
report  would  have  been  more  full  and  precise,  if  my  situation  had 
permitted ;  but  my  frame  is  so  disordered  as  almost  to  unfit  me  for 
business. 


JEFFERSON  TO   GENET. 

Germantown,  November  24th,  1793. 

Sir: 

I  laid  before  the  President  of  the  United  States  your  two  let- 
ters of  the  11th  and  14th  instant,  on  the  subject  of  new  advances  of 
money,  and  they  were  immediately  referred  to  the  Secretary  of 
the  Treasury,  within  whose  department  subjects  of  this  nature 
lie.  I  have  now  the  honor  of  inclosing  you  a  copy  of  his  report 
thereon  to  the  President,  in  answer  to  your  letters,  and  of  adding 
assurances  of  respect  and  esteem  of,  Sir,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  JEFFERSON. 

Treasury  Department,  Nov.  30th,  1793. 

Sir: 

I  have  taken  the  opinion  of  the  Attorney-General,  in  the 
case  of  the  St.  Domingo  vessels  mentioned  in  your  letter  of  the 
2d  September  last,  which  confirms  that  which  I  had  before  en- 
tertained, and,  on  further  reflection,  continue  to  entertain,  name- 
ly, that  those  vessels  do  not  fall  within  the  meaning  of  the  38th 
section  of  the  collection  law,  respecting  vessels  that  put  into  our 
ports  from  distress  or  necessity,  and,  of  course,  are  liable  by  law 
to  the  payment  of  the  duty  of  tonnage,  from  which  it  is  not  with- 
in the  compass  of  executive  discretion  to  relieve  them,  whatever 
circumstances  of  hardship  may  exist. 


jEt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  491 

A  copy  of  the  opinion  of  the  Attorney-General  is  herewith 
transmitted. 

The  law  appears  more  manifestly  to  contemplate  cases  of  dis- 
tress or  necessity,  from  canses  which  compel  a  vessel,  being  on  a 
voyage  for  another  port,  to  change  her  destination  for  a  port  of 
the  United  States ;  not  the  case  of  a  vessel  which,  induced  by  a 
civil  insurrection  to  quit  a  foreign  port,  finds  it  most  convenient 
to  make  a  voyage  to  the  United  States. 

I  return,  inclosed,  the  letter  from  the  Yice-Consul  of  Yirginia, 
and  have  the  honor  to  be,  with  respect,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO   WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  Dec.  2,  1793. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  on  the  letter  from  the  Minister 
Plenipotentiary  of  France  to  the  Secretary  of  State  of  the  15th 
instant,  respectfully  makes  the  following  report  to  the  President 
of  the  United  States. 

It  is  true  as  alleged  by  the  Minister,  that  certain  drafts  of  his 
on  the  Treasury  have  not  been  admitted. 

Some  of  them  were  predicated  upon  the  fund  engaged  to  him 
in  November ;  but  one  of  them  for  twenty  thousand  dollars,  was 
expressed  to  be  upon  the  funds  which  should  be  at  the  disposal 
of  France  in  January,  1794. 

With  respect  to  the  first  kind,  an  accidental  error  occasioned 
the  temporary  exclusion  of  some  drafts,  which  were  within  the 
proper  limit.  The  clerk  charged  with  registering  the  bills  as 
presented,  had  noted  one  as  for  forty  thousand  dollars,  which 
was  afterwards  found  to  be  for  only  fourteen  thousand;  whereby 
the  fund  stipulated  appeared  to  have  been  exceeded,  when  in 
fact  there  was  yet  a  balance.  But  as  soon  as  the  error  was  dis- 
covered, the  consequences  were  rectified. 

The  draft  expressed  to  be  upon  funds  to  be  at  the  disposal  of 


492  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  36. 

France  in  January  1794,  was  refused,  because  it  was  not  warrant- 
ed by  any  previous  arrangement,  or  even  notice. 

The  funds  by  arrangement  put  in  the  disposal  of  the  minister 
were  definite,  viz.,  one  million  and  five  hundred  thousand  livres 
payable  on  the  third  of  September  last,  deducting  ninety-four 
thousand  five  hundred  six  dollars  and  ten  and  a  half  cents  to  be 
paid  for  bills  drawn  by  the  administration  of  St.  Domingo,  and 
one  million  of  livres  payable  on  the  fifth  day  of  November  fol" 
lowing.  The  precision  given  to  this  arrangement  will  be  seen 
by  the  copy  of  my  letter  to  him  of  the  24th  July  last,  herewith 
communicated.     No  other  arrangement  was  made. 

The  minister  ought  not  to  have  operated  upon  the  accessory 
fund  of  interest,  for  two  reasons  ;  first,  because  the  terms  of  the 
arrangement  with  him  did  not  include  it;  secondly,  because  it 
could  only  have  been  properly  considered  as  payable  of  course,  if 
it  had  been  mutually  understood  as  absolutely  becoming  due, 
unaffected  by  any  antecedent  payment;  whereas  the  minister 
had  been  informed,  that  the  advances  which  had  been  made 
were  supposed  to  have  exceeded  the  sums  due,  according  to  the 
stipulated  course  of  payment. 

It  need  only  be  added  that  to  preserve  order  in  money 
transactions  it  is  essential  to  proceed  with  regularity ;  that  an 
unauthorized  latitude  of  drawing  upon  the  Treasury  could  not 
without  impropriety  and  inconvenience  be  countenanced  by  it, 
and  that  it  was  reasonable  to  expect  that  Mr.  Genet,  being  at  no 
greater  distance  than  New- York,  would  not  have  undertaken  to 
exceed  the  limit  concerted  with  him,  without  previous  notice 
and  consent. 


MESSAGE   OF  WASHINGTON. 

December,  1793. 

Gentlemen  : 

In  my  speech  to  the  two  houses  of  Congress  at  the  opening  of 
the  session,*  I  urged  the  expediency  of  being  prepared  for  war, 

*  December,  1793. 


At.  36.]  CAEINET    PAPERS.  493 

as  one  of  the  best  securities  to  our  peace.  Events  which  seem 
daily  to  be  unfolding  themselves,  press  still  more  seriously  upon 
us  the  duty  of  being  so  prepared,  indicating  that  the  calamities 
of  war  may,  by  a  train  of  circumstances,  be  forced  upon  us,  not- 
withstanding the  most  sincere  desires  and  endeavors  to  cultivate 
and  preserve  peace. 

I  cannot  therefore  withhold  from  Congress  the  expression  of 
my  conviction,  that  the  United  States  ought,  without  delay,  to 
adopt  such  military  arrangements  as  will  enable  them  to  vindi- 
cate with  vigor  their  rights,  and  to  repel  with  energy  any 
attacks  which  may  be  made  upon  them;  and  that  it  may  be 
advisable  to  add  some  propositions  calculated  to  exempt  our  com- 
merce from  being  the  prey  of  foreign  depredations. 

The  blessings  of  peace  are,  in  my  view,  so  precious,  that  they 
will  continue  to  engage  my  most  zealous  exertions  for  their  con- 
tinuance. Under  this  impression,  the  suggestions  I  have  made 
are  influenced  as  much  by  a  persuasion  of  their  tendency  to  pre- 
serve peace,  as  by  a  sense  of  the  necessity  of  being  prepared  for 
events  which  may  not  depend  on  our  choice. 


CABINET  OPINION. 

December  7,  1793. 

At  a  meeting  of  the  Heads  of  Departments  and  Attorney- 
General  at  the  President's,  on  the  7th  of  December,  1793 — 

Mr.  Genet's  letter  of  Dec.  3,  questioning  the  right  of  requir- 
ing the  address  of  consular  commissions  to  the  President,  was 
read.  It  is  the  opinion  that  the  address  may  be  either  to  the 
United  States  or  to  the  President  of  the  United  States,  but  that 
one  of  these  should  be  insisted  on. 

A  letter  from  James  King  was  read,  dated  Philadelphia,  Nov. 
25,  1793,  complaining  of  the  capture  of  his  schooner  Nancy  by 
a  British  privateer  and  carried  into  New  Providence,  and  that 
the  court  there  has  thrown  the  onus  probandi  on  the  owners,  to 


494  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  36. 

show  that  the  vessel  and  cargo  are  American  property.  It  is  the 
opinion  that  Mr.  King  be  informed,  that  it  is  a  general  rule  that 
the  government  should  not  interpose  individually,  till  a  final  de- 
nial of  justice  has  taken  place  in  the  courts  of  the  country  where 
the  wrong  is  done ;  but  that,  a  considerable  degree  of  informa- 
tion being  shortly  expected  relative  to  these  cases,  his  will  be 
further  considered  and  attended  to  at  that  time. 

The  Secretary  of  State  informed  the  President  that  he  had 
received  a  number  of  applications  from  Mr.  Genet,  on  behalf  of 
the  refugees  of  St.  Domingo,  who  have  been  subjected  to  ton- 
nage on  their  vessels  and  duties  on  their  property,  on  taking 
asylum  in  the  ports  of  this  country,  into  which  they  were  forced 
by  the  misfortunes  of  that  colony.  It  is  the  opinion  that  the 
Secretary  of  State  may  put  the  petitions  into  the  hands  of  a 
member  of  the  legislature  in  his  private  capacity,  to  be  present- 
ed to  the  legislature. 

Th.  Jefferson, 
Edm.  Kandolph, 
A.  Hamilton, 
H.  Knox. 


BRADFORD  TO   WASHINGTON — CABINET   OPINION. 

1793. 

The  Attorney-General  has  the  honor  to  report,  that  having 
considered  the  Eesolve  of  the  Senate  of  the  20th  instant,  where- 
by the  President  of  the  United  States  is  requested  to  lay  before 
that  body  the  correspondence  which  has  been  had  between  the 
Minister  of  the  United  States  at  the  French  Kepublic  and  the 
said  Eepublic,  and  between  said  Minister  and  the  office  of  Secre- 
tary of  State — 

He  is  of  opinion  that  it  is  the  duty  of  the  Executive  to  with- 
hold such  parts  of  the  said  correspondence  as  in  the  judgment  of 
the  Executive  shall  be  deemed  unsafe  and  improper  to  be  dis- 


Mt.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  495 

closed.  He  also  conceives  that  the  general  terms  of  the  resolve 
do  not  exclude,  in  the  construction  of  it,  those  just  exceptions 
which  the  rights  of  the  Executive  and  the  nature  of  foreign  cor- 
respondences require.  Every  call  of  this  nature,  where  the 
correspondence  is  secret  and  no  specific  object  pointed  at,  must 
be  presumed  to  proceed  upon  the  idea  that  the  papers  requested 
are  proper  to  be  communicated ;  and  it  could  scarcely  be  sup- 
posed, even  if  the  words  were  stronger,  that  the  Senate  intended 
to  include  any  letters,  the  disclosure  of  which  might  endanger 
national  honor  or  individual  safety. 

The  Attorney-General  is  therefore  of  opinion,  that  it  will  be 
advisable  for  the  President  to  communicate  to  the  Senate  such 
parts  of  the  said  correspondence  as  upon  examination  he  shall 
deem  safe  and  proper  to  disclose,  withholding  all  such  as  any 
circumstances  may  render  improper  to  be  communicated. 

¥m.  Bradford. 


HAMILTON    TO    THE  SPEAKER    OF  THE   HOUSE   OF   REPRESENTA- 
TIVES. 

Treasury  Department,  December  16th,  1793. 

Sir: 

It  is  known  that  in  the  last  session  certain  questions  were 
raised  respecting  my  conduct  in  office,  which,  though  decided  in 
a  manner  the  most  satisfactory  to  me,  were  nevertheless  unavoid- 
ably, from  the  lateness  of  the  period  when  they  were  set  on  foot, 
so  accelerated  in  the  issue,  as  to  have  given  occasion  to  a  sugges- 
tion that  there  was  not  time  for  a  due  examination.  Unwilling 
to  leave  the  matter  on  such  a  footing,  I  have  concluded  to  re- 
quest of  the  House  of  Eepresentatives,  as  I  now  do,  that  a  new 
inquiry  may  without  delay  be  instituted  in  sonic  mode,  the  most 
effectual  for  an  accurate  and  thorough  investigation;  and  I  will 
add,  that  the  more  comprehensive  it  is,  the  more  agreeable  will 
it  be  to  me. 

I  cannot,   however,    but   take  the  liberty  of  assuring   the 


496  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.36. 

House,  that  a  like  plan  to  that  which  was  pursued  in  the  last 
session,  will  never  answer  the  purpose  of  a  full  and  complete  in- 
quiry, while  it  would  lay  on  me  a  burthen,  with  which  neither 
a  proper  discharge  of  the  current  duties  of  my  office,  nor  the  pre- 
sent state  of  my  health  is  compatible.  The  unfavorable  effect 
upon  the  business  of  the  department  of  the  very  considerable 
portion  of  my  time  which  was  engrossed  by  the  inquiry  of  the 
last  session  has  not  yet  entirely  ceased. 

With  perfect  respect,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


MESSAGE   OF  WASHINGTON. 

Draft  by  Hamilton. 

January,  1794. 
Since  the  application  which  was  made  to  the  government  of 
France,  for  the  recall  of  its  present  minister,  that  minister  has 
furnished  new  and  material  causes  of  dissatisfaction  with  his 
conduct.  But  these  occasions  of  offence  have  hitherto  passed 
without  particular  notice,  in  the  hope  that  it  would  not  be  long 
before  the  arrival  of  an  order  of  recall  would  terminate  the  em- 
barrassment, and  in  the  desire,  inspired  by  sentiments  of  friend- 
ship and  respect  for  his  nation,  to  avoid  as  long  as  possible  an 
act  of  extremity  towards  its  agent.  But  a  case  has  occurred, 
which  is  conceived  to  render  further  forbearance  inconsistent 
with  the  dignity,  and  perhaps  the  safety  of  the  United  States.  It 
is  proved,  as  will  be  seen  by  papers  now  transmitted  for  the  in- 
formation of  Congress,  that  this  foreign  agent  has  proceeded  to 
the  extraordinary  lengths  of  issuing  commissions  in  the  name  of 
the  French  republic,  to  several  of  our  citizens,  for  the  purpose  of 
raising  within  the  two  Carolinas  and  Georgia,  a  large  military 
force,  with  the  declared  design  of  employing  them,  in  concert 
with  such  Indians  as  could  be  engaged  in  the  enterprise,  in  an 
expedition  against  the  colonies  in  our  neighborhood,  of  a  nation 
with  whom  the  United  States  are  at  peace. 


^t.  36.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  497 

It  would  seem,  likewise,  from  information  contained  in  other 
papers,  herewith  also  communicated,  that  a  similar  attempt  has 
been  going  on  in  another  quarter,  namely  the  State  of  Ken- 
tucky ;  though  the  fact  is  not  yet  ascertained  with  the  requisite 
authenticity. 

Proceedings  so  unwarrantable,  so  derogatory  to  the  sove- 
reignty of  the  United  States,  so  dangerous  in  precedent  and  ten- 
dency, appear  to  render  it  improper  that  the  person  chargeable 
with  them  should  longer  continue  to  exercise  the  functions  and 
enjoy  the  privileges  of  a  diplomatic  character. 

The  supersedure  of  the  exercise  of  those  functions,  neverthe- 
less, being  a  measure  of  great  delicacy  and  magnitude,  I  have 
concluded  not  to  come  to  an  ultimate  determination,  without 
first  placing  the  subject  under  the  eye  of  Congress. 

But  unless  the  one  or  the  other  house  shall,  in  the  mean  time, 
signify  to  me  an  opinion  that  it  is  not  advisable  so  to  do,  I  shall 
consider  it  my  duty  to  adopt  that  measure,  after  the  expiration 
of  days  from  this  communication. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  January  4th,  1794. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  to  whom  was  referred,  by  the 
President  of  the  United  States,  a  letter  from  the  Minister  of  the 
French  Republic  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  dated  the  21st  of 
December  last,  respectfully  makes  the  following 

Report. 

The  Minister  observes,  that  it  results  from  the  report  of  the 
Secretary  of  the  Treasury  that  upon  an  accidental  error  the  in- 
terests of  the  French  republic  and  the  character  of  its  repre- 
sentative were  compromited  by  a  refusal  to  accept  drafts 
delivered  to  the  agents  by  whom  they  were  supplied,  for  sums 
due  to  the  republic ;  adding  to  this  observation  the  further  one, 
that  it  seems  to  him  that  a  like  measure  merited  the  most  serious 
d  32 


498  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  37. 

attention,  and  that  lie  knows  not  by  what  name  to  call  the 
negligence  which  was  committed  in  this  respect. 

This  asperity  of  remark  might,  it  would  seem,  have  been  pre- 
vented by  a  due  attention  to  circumstances  and  facts.  It  was 
stated  in  the  report  to  which  the  minister  refers,  that  the  error  in 
question  was  the  mere  mistake  of  the  clerk  charged  with  regis- 
tering his  drafts  as  the}*'  were  presented  at  the  Treasury.  It  will 
not  be  alleged  that  this  was  not  the  proper  business  of  a  clerk ; 
and  all  that  could  be  expected  from  the  Head  of  the  Department, 
or  the  officer  having  in  his  place  the  principal  direction,  is,  that 
there  should  have  been  due  care  in  selecting  the  person  to  whose 
immediate  agency  the  duty  was  intrusted.  To  this  point  there 
was  no  want  of  attention.  The  clerk  selected  had  been  long 
tried  in  public  business,  and  has  a  well-established  reputation  for 
fidelity  and  accuracy.  This  officer  is  himself  persuaded  that  in 
the  instance  which  occasioned  the  demur  no  error  was  com- 
mitted, and  firmly  believes  that  the  convenience  of  parties  had 
produced  an  alteration  in  the  bill  after  it  was  noted  by  him ;  but 
this  surmise  of  his  has  been  rejected,  and  it  has  been  taken  for 
granted  and  admitted  that  there  was  a  mistake  on  his  part, 
though,  as  no  mark  was  set  upon  any  bill  presented  and  rioted, 
that  admission  was  founded  on  considerations  in  which  candor 
and  delicacy  governed.  ISTo  palliation  of  the  mistake  will  be  at- 
tempted to  be  drawn  from  topics  connected  with  any  derange- 
ment of  the  course  of  business  resulting  from  the  late  calamitous 
condition  of  the  city  of  Philadelphia,  nor  from  the  absence  of  the 
Secretary  of  the  Treasury  from  the  seat  of  government,  for  the 
recovery  of  his  health,  when  the  incident  deemed  so  exception- 
able took  place. 

The  hesitation  about  the  registering  of  the  bills  which  ap- 
peared to  have  been  overdrawn,  was  a  mere  consequence  of  the 
first  mistake. 

The  main  object  of  the  registry  of  the  bills  was  to  ascertain, 
for  the  satisfaction  of  holders,  that  there  were  funds  in  the 
Treasury  subject  to  the  payment  of  them ;  and  to  secure  to  those 
holders  a  priority,  in  the  event  of  there  being  an  overdraiving.  It 
was,  therefore,  a  matter  of  course  that  the  registry  should  cease 


Mt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  499 

as  soon  as  itself  showed  that  the  amount  of  the  bills  presented 
equalled  the  amount  of  the  fund  destined  for  satisfying  them. 
Being  the  proper  and  regular  guide  to  the  officers  of  the  Trea- 
sury, they  could  not  but  be  expected  to  follow  it. 

All  that  could  be  asked  (if  a  mistake  happened)  was,  that  the 
consequences  of  it  should  be  corrected  as  soon  as  the  mistake 
was  discovered ;  and  this  was  in  fact  done.  Nor  did  more  than 
a  week  elapse  before  the  drafts,  which  had  been  suspended  on 
account  of  the  mistake,  were  recognized  and  admitted. 

But  it  is  suggested  by  the  minister,  that  though  the  error  was 
rectified,  the  injury  which  it  occasioned  has  not  been  cured. 
That  event,  it  is  asserted,  has  furnished  to  the  ill-disposed,  and 
to  the  enemies  of  the  French  republic,  a  powerful  means  of  hurt- 
ing its  cause,  by  alarming  the  merchants  and  ruining  the  credit 
of  its  agents.  If  this  assertion  were  better  founded  than  it  is,  it 
Would  only  afford  room  to  regret  the  consequence  of  an  involun- 
tary error.  But,  whatever  injury  the  credit  of  France  in  this 
country,  or  of  her  agents,  may  have  sustained,  it  is  to  be  traced 
to  other  sources ;  more  adequate  causes  can  be  assigned  for  it. 
The  assertion  which  has  been  made  calls  for  a  specification  of 
those  causes. 

The  first  of  them  was,  the  disappointment  of  our  citizens  in 
not  receiving  payment  of  bills  to  a  large  amount,  furnished  to 
them  by  the  administration  of  St.  Domingo,  with  assurances  of 
being  paid  here  by  the  agents  of  France ;  at  the  same  time  that 
it  was  known  that  these  agents  had  obtained  from  the  govern- 
ment of  the  United  States  funds  adequate  to  such  payment, 
which  had  been  applied  to  other  objects.  In  mentioning  this 
circumstance,  it  is  only  intended  to  note  the  fact  and  its  effects, 
not  to  question  the  propriety  of  the  application  which  was  made 
of  the  funds. 

Another  and  a  far  more  powerful  cause  was,  the  refusal  of 
the  present  Minister  to  pay  certain  bills,  which  had  had  the  posi- 
tive sanction  of  his  predecessor  ;  diverting  from  that  destination 
funds  which  were  understood  to  have  been  appropriated  to  it — 
and  this,  too,  in  contravention  of  his  own  arrangement  with  the 
Treasury. 


500  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  37. 

These  bills  had,  like  those  first  mentioned,  been  drawn  by  the 
administration  of  St.  Domingo.  But  they  had  in  addition  been 
virtually  accepted  by  the  late  Consul  of  France,  in  concert  with 
its  then  Minister,  and  in  conformity  with  an  understanding  be- 
tween the  latter  and  this  government. 

The  arrival  of  the  present  Minister  devolved  upon  him  the 
disposal  of  the  unfurnished  residue  of  the  fund  which  had  been 
promised  to  his  predecessor.  An  early  opportunity  was  taken 
to  intimate  to  him  the  reliance  of  the  government,  that  the  bills 
accepted  as  above  and  unpaid,  would  be  satisfied  by  him  out  of 
that  residue.  He  gave,  without  hesitation,  a  correspondent 
assurance,  and  on  the  third  of  June  last  addressed  to  the  Secre- 
tary of  the  Treasury,  a  letter  in  the  following  terms,  viz. :  "I 
pray  you  to  put  hereafter  in  the  disposition  of  Citizen  Bournon- 
ville,  Secretary  of  Legation  of  the  Eepublic,  the  funds  destined 
to  the  acquittal  of  the  drafts  of  the  Colony  of  St.  Domingo,  ac- 
cording to  the  order  of  payment  settled  between  you  and  my 
predecessor." 

A  part  of  these  funds  was  accordingly  put  into  the  hands  of 
Mr.  Bournonville,  in  expectation  that  they  would  be  applied  as 
had  been  agreed.  And  upon  the  inquiries  of  some  of  the  hold- 
ers of  the  bills  at  the  Treasury,  in  whom  apprehensions  had  been 
excited,  they  were  assured  that  they  need  not  entertain  any,  as  it 
was  the  known  intention  of  the  present  Minister  to  fulfil  the  en- 
gagements of  his  predecessor ;  and  that  funds  had  been  furnished 
to  him  for  taking  up  the  bills  which  were  falling  due. 

The  Minister  afterwards  deemed  it  necessary  to  change  the 
destination  of  these  funds,  as  he  announced  in  his  letter  of  the 
18th  of  June  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  and  in  fact  refused  pay- 
ment of  the  bills. 

This  measure,  of  a  nature  destructive  to  credit,  had  the  effect 
which  was  to  have  been  anticipated. 

The  very  expedient  of  registering  at  the  Treasury  the  drafts 
of  the  Minister,  was  rendered  necessary  by  a  pre-existing  bad 
state  of  credit.  It  engaged  the  Treasury  to  nothing  more  than 
to  secure  to  those  who  presented  bills  a  preference  against  others 
to  whom  subsequent  drafts  might  be  given,  overrunning  the  fund 


^t.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  501 

for  payment;  and  was  devised  to  facilitate  to  the  Minister  an 
auxiliary  mean  of  credit  of  which  he  stood  in  need. 

These  unquestionable  truths  demonstrate  that  there  is  no 
room  to  impute  to  the  consequences  of  the  mistake  which  was 
committed,  any  deficiency  of  credit  which  may  have  embar- 
rassed the  operations  of  the  Minister. 

But  it  is  a  further  truth,  that  if  his  credit  has  suffered  by  the 
refusal  of  the  Treasury  to  admit  his  drafts,  it  is  chiefly  to  be 
referred  to  the  draft  for  20,000  dollars  predicated  upon  the  fund 
to  be  at  the  disposal  of  France  in  January,  which  was  finally 
refused,  because  not  authorized  by  any  previous  arrangement 
between  the  government  and  the  Minister. 

The  temporary  demur  about  other  bills  speedily  abandoned 
and  explained,  could  not  have  had  an  influence  bearing  any  pro- 
portion to  that  of  the  ultimate  refusal  of  the  above-mentioned 
bill. 

As  far  as  this  refusal  may  have  had  a  prejudicial  operation, 
it  is  imputable  wholly  to  the  irregularity  of  having  drawn  the 
bill,  not  only  without  the  consent  of  the  government,  but  even 
contrary  to  an  intimation  from  it ;  in  a  case,  too,  in  which  it  was 
free  to  refuse. 

That  it  was  with  the  consent  of  the  government,  will  not  be 
pretended.  The  letter  from  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  to  the 
Minister,  of  the  24th  of  July,  accompanying  his  former  report  on 
the  subject,  excludes  all  plea  of  constructive  or  implied  consent. 

That  it  was  contrary  to  an  intimation  from  the  government, 
results  from  the  following  facts : 

The  Minister,  by  a  letter  of  the  14th  June  to  the  Secretary  of 
State,  communicates  the  intention  of  giving  to  those  who  should 
furnish  him  with  supplies,  "  delegations,"  or  assignments  of  the 
debt  to  France  in  payment;  desiring  as  a  prerequisite  to  this 
operation,  that  the  Treasury  should  be  instructed  to  come  to  a 
speedy  adjustment  with  him,  of  the  account  of  the  debt  from  the 
United  States  to  France. 

To  this  suggestion  the  Secretary  of  State,  by  a  letter  of 
the  19th  of  June,  (after  assuring  him  that  instructions  would 
be  given  for  the   settlement  of   the  account,)  replied    as   fol- 


502  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  37. 

lows:  "In  the  mean  time,  what  is  further  to  be  done,  will 
doubtless  be  the  subject  of  further  reflection  and  inquiry  with 
you,  and  particularly  the  operation  proposed  in  your  letter  will 
be  viewed  under  all  its  aspects.  Among  these  we  think  it  will 
present  itself  as  a  measure  too  questionable  both  in  principle  and 
practicability,  too  deeply  interesting  to  the  credit  of  the  United 
States,  and  too  unpromising  in  its  result  to  France  to  be  found 
eligible  to  yourself.  Finally,  we  rest  secure  that  what  is  of  mutual 
concern  will  not  he  clone  but  with  mutual  concert1'1 

Without  mutual  concert,  without  even  an  intervening  con- 
sultation for  that  purpose,  the  minister  thought  proper  to  issue 
his  "delegations"  or  drafts  upon  a  fund  not  embraced  by  any 
previous  arrangement ;  and  he  now  makes  it  matter  of  complaint 
that  these  "  delegations"  were  not  registered.  Was  it  to  have 
been  expected  that  the  Treasury  should  become  the  passive  in- 
strument of  a  measure  so  irregular — so  unwarrantable  ? 

But  the  minister,  in  justification  of  the  step,  makes  two  ob- 
servations. 

1.  That  as  the  300,000  livres  due  the  first  of  January,  are 
the  interest  of  the  loan  of  600,000  made  by  France  to  the  United 
States  in  1783,  the  reimbursements  of  which  are  not  to  commence  till 
1797,  he  can  see  no  motive  that  could  arrest  the  payment  of  the 
interest  of  that  sum  at  the  epoch  stipulated,  as  long  as  there  was 
due  to  France  an  equivalent. 

2.  That  supposing  the  payments,  which  have  been  made  by 
the  Treasury,  to  exceed  the  amount  of  the  sums  due,  he  has  al- 
ways been  firmly  convinced  that  these  advances  (to  which  the 
urgent  wants  of  France  had  forced  a  recource)  would  be  applied 
to  the  extinction  of  the  debt  taken  in  totality ;  a  measure  per- 
fectly agreeing  with  the  clause  inserted  in  the  different  contracts 
which  expresses  that  the  United  States  might,  if  they  judged 
proper,  liberate  themselves  sooner  than  the  epoch  fixed  by  those 
contracts. 

These  observations  admit  of  obvious  answers.  'Tis  affirmed 
on  our  part,  and  the  minister  seems  himself  to  be  sensible  of  its 
truth,  that  our  payments  hitherto  exceeded  the  sums  demanda- 
ble  by  the  terms  of  our  contracts.     It  may  be  taken  for  granted, 


tEt.37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  503 

that  this  is  the  case  beyond  the  amount  of  the  interest  of  the 
600,000  accruing  in  January.  The  United  States  are  at  liberty 
to  consider  the  excess  as  an  anticipation  of  the  capital  of  the 
loans  ;  but  they  are  not  bound  to  do  so.  They  have  no  option 
to  do  that,  or  to  set  it  off  against  the  interest  accruing  on  the 
unpaid  residue  of  the  debt.  The  universal  course  of  business 
will  justify  them  in  the  latter,  and  their  contracts  say  nothing  to 
the  contrary.  Not  having  declared  a  different  option,  they  were 
free  to  pursue  that  alternative,  and  consequently,  as  has  been 
said,  to  refuse  the  drafts  of  the  minister,  predicated  upon  the 
January  interest. 

The  circumstance  which  he  notices,  of  the  reimbursements  of 
the  600,000  loan  not  commencing  till  1797,  cannot  affect  this  con- 
clusion. These  reimbursements  so  postponed,  relate  to  the  capi- 
tal of  the  debt ;  and  that  postponement  of  course  cannot  bring 
into  question  the  propriety  of  setting  off  against  the  interest  an- 
nually payable,  sums  advanced  beyond  those  which  were  ante- 
cedently due. 

The  conviction  of  the  minister,  that  the  advances  which 
might  have  been  made,  would  be  deferred  toward  the  final  ex- 
tinction of  the  debt,  could  be  no  rule  to  the  Treasury,  as  long  as 
it  had  not  been  authorized  by  any  assurance  from  the  govern- 
ment ;  or  when  it  was  recollected,  that  the  propriety  of  a  mutual 
previous  concert,  about  whatever  was  not  a  matter  of  course, 
was  indicated  to  him,  not  only  by  the  reason  of  the  thing,  but 
by  unequivocal  declarations. 

In  fact,  whether  the  course  on  which  he  declares  himself  to 
have  relied,  could  have  been  pursued  or  not,  depended  on  cir- 
cumstances ;  that  is,  on  the  means  which  should  exist  of  making 
intermediate  payments,  and  postponing  the  advances  to  an  ulte- 
rior arrangement ;  a  point  at  this  moment  unascertained,  from 
causes  which  have  heretofore  been  disclosed. 

But  the  minister  not  only  hazarded  his  credit,  by  drawing 
without  a  previous  arrangement,  the  bill  for  20,000  dollars,  pay- 
able out  of  the  January  interest;  he  hazarded  it  likewise  by  actu- 
tually  overdrawing  the  funds  placed  at  his  disposal  in  September 
and  November  last ;  so  that  if  no  mistake  had  occurred  at  the 


504  HAMILTON'S     WORKS.  [>Et.  37. 

Treasury,  he  might  have  been  exposed  by  his  own  conduct  to 
consequences  which,  in  that  respect,  happened  by  accident. 

The  Secretary  now  proceeds  to  the  demands  contained  in  the 
memorial  of  the  minister.     These  are — 

1.  That  the  state  of  the  account  of  the  United  States  with 
France  be  presented  with  the  least  possible  delay. 

2.  That  the  sums,  which  may  have  been  advanced  to  France, 
beyond  those  which  were  demandable  on  the  terms  of  the  con- 
tracts, be  applied  to  the  extinction  of  the  debt  taken  in  totality. 

3.  That,  provisionally,  and  until  the  state  of  the  account  can 
be  determined,  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  be  authorized  to 
register  the  "  delegations,"  or  drafts,  which  the  minister  shall 
have  occasion  to  issue,  to  the  extent  of  five  millions  tournois. 

With  regard  to  the  first  point,  the  account  is  now  in  a  course 
of  adjustment  between  the  Comptroller,  on  the  part  of  the  Trea- 
sury, and  Mr.  Bournonville  on  the  part  of  the  minister.  There 
are  some  points  which  require  a  mutual  adjustment  before  they 
can  be  fixed  definitively.  A  correct  view  of  the  account  cannot 
be  presented  till  these  points  are  settled.  That  done,  it  shall  be 
immediately  laid  before  the  President. 

With  regard  to  the  second  point,  the  Secretary  is  of  opinion 
that  a  determination  concerning  it  cannot  now  be  made.  The 
adoption  of  the  minister's  proposition  would  amount  to  an  agree- 
ment to  pay  the  accruing  instalments  at  the  periods  stipulated  in 
the  contracts,  though  the  advances  which  have  been  made  should 
exceed  them.  But  such  an  agreement  cannot  safely  be  entered 
into,  because  it  is  now  problematical  whether  the  Executive  will 
be  possessed  in  time  of  funds  which  can  be  applied  to  that  purpose, 
without  neglecting  objects  of  positive  obligation  and  essential  to 
our  credit,  as  has  been  already  explained  and  communicated. 

With  regard  to  the  third  point,  the  answer  to  the  second  is 
an  answer  to  this  also.  If  rightly  understood,  this  proposition 
depends  upon  the  second.  It  appears  necessary,  first,  to  ascer- 
tain what  is  to  be  paid;  and  when  it  is  to  be  paid,  before  any 
sanction  can  safely  be  given  to  the  proposed  "  delegations  "  or 
drafts.  This  presupposes  a  settlement  of  accounts,  and  a  fur- 
ther view  of  our  pecuniary  prospects. 

All  which  is  respectfully  submitted. 


jEt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  505 


CABINET  OPINION. 

January  14th,  1794. 

At  a  meeting  of  the  Heads  of  the  Departments,  at  the  Presi- 
dent's, on  the  14th  day  of  January,  1794 — 

It  was  propounded  by  the  President  whether,  in  considera- 
tion of  the  eminent  services  of  M.  de  Lafayette  to  the  United 
States,  and  his  present  sufferings,  it  be  not  advisable  for  the 
President,  in  a  private  and  unofficial  character,  to  address  the 
King  of  Prussia  a  letter,  requesting  his  release  on  parole,  founded 
on  motives  of  personal  friendship  only.  The  opinion  is,  that 
such  a  letter  is  proper  to  be  written. 

H.  Knox, 

Alexander  Hamilton. 
Edm.  Randolph. 


CABINET  OPINION. 

January  28th,  1794. 

At  a  meeting  of  the  Heads  of  Departments,  January  28th, 
1794,  upon  consideration  of  the  resolution  of  the  Senate  of 
January  24th,  1794,  calling  for  the  correspondences  therein 
mentioned — 

General  Knox  is  of  opinion,  that  no  part  of  the  correspond- 
ences should  be  sent  to  the  Senate  : 

Colonel  Hamilton,  that  the  correct  mode  of  proceeding  is  to 
do  what  General  Knox  advises ;  but  that  the  principle  is  safe, 
by  excepting  such  parts  as  the  President  may  choose  to  with- 
hold : 

Mr.  Randolph,  that  all  the  correspondence  proper,  from  its 
nature,   to   be  communicated  to  the  Senate,  should   be   sent; 


506  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  37. 

but  that  what  the  President  thinks  improper,   should  not  be 

sent. 

In  either  form,  messages  are  recommended  to  be  prepared. 

H.  Knox, 

Alexander  Hamilton, 
Edm.  Kandolph. 


HAMILTON  TO   WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  10th  February,  1794. 

Sir: 

The  inclosed  letter  of  the  27th  of  last  month,  from  the  Col- 
lector of  Tappahannock,  relates  to  a  subject  equally  delicate  and 
disagreeable.  It  is  my  duty  to  add,  that  bills  have  returned 
protested  to  the  amount  of  3,000  dollars. 

This  conduct,  though,  I  trust,  proceeding  from  no  ill  motive 
in  the  Collector,  is  of  a  nature  so  fatal  to  the  punctual  collection 
of  the  revenue,  and  at  the  same  time  so  vitally  injurious  to  the 
public  credit,  that  I  cannot  forbear  to  submit  it  as  my  opinion, 
that  the  public  good  requires  the  superseding  of  the  officer. 

With  perfect  respect,  &c. 

Alexander  Hamilton. 


HAMILTON   TO   WASHINGTON. 

March  8th ,  1794. 

The  present  situation  of  the  United  States  is  undoubtedly 
critical,  and  demands  measures  vigorous,  though  prudent.  We 
ought  to  be  in  a  respectable  military  posture,  because  war  may 
come  upon  us,  whether  we  choose  it  or  not ;  and  because,  to  be 
in  a  condition  to  defend  ourselves,  and  annoy  any  who  may 


jEt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  507 

attack  us,  will  be  the  best  method  of  securing  our  peace.  If  it  is 
known  that  our  principal  maritime  points  are  out  of  the  reach  of 
any  but  formal  serious  operations,  and  that  the  government  has 
an  efficient  active  force  in  its  disposal  for  defence  or  offence  on 
an  emergency,  there  will  be  much  less  temptation  to  attack  us, 
and  much  more  hesitation  to  provoke  us. 
It  seems  then  advisable — 

1.  To  fortify  the  principal  ports  in  the  several  States  (say  one 
in  each  State),  so  as  to  be  able  to  resist  a  merely  maritime  attack, 
or  any  thing  but  a  regular  siege. 

2.  To  raise  20,000  auxiliary  troops,  upon  a  plan  something 
like  the  following,  viz. : 

To  be  divided  into  ten  regiments. 

Each  regiment  to  consist  of  two  battalions,  and  of  the  follow- 
ing officers  and  men : 

1  colonel,  2  majors,  10  captains,  20  lieutenants,  2  lieutenants 
and  adjutants,  2  sergeant-majors,  40  sergeants,  4  musicians,  and 
1,000  rank  and  file. 

These  troops  to  be  engaged  upon  the  following  terms : 

To  be  enlisted  for  two  years ;  but  upon  condition,  that  if  a 
war  should  break  out  with  any  European  power,  they  shall  be 
obliged  to  serve  four  years  from  the  commencement  of  such  war, 
upon  the  same  terms  as  the  troops  of  the  establishment. 

To  receive  as  a  bounty,  clothes  with  12  dollars  per  man. 

To  be  under  an  obligation  to  meet  forty  days  in  the  year,  and 
thirty  of  these  days  to  encamp.  When  assembled,  to  be  paid, 
officers  and  men,  as  the  troops  of  the  establishment,  and  to  have 
the  same  subsistence  and  rations.  To  be  furnished  with  arms 
and  accoutrements  by  the  United  States,  to  be  surrendered  at 
the  expiration  of  their  term  of  service. 

The  officers  in  time  of  war  to  rank  and  rise  with  the  officers 
of  the  military  establishment.  The  arrangement  to  cease,  ipso 
/'"do,  at  the  expiration  of  a  certain  term  (about  two  years). 

The  expense  of  these  operations  would  be, 

For  the  fortifications, $150,000 

For  the  auxiliary  troops,  per  annum,  ....       350,000 

§500,000 


508  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  37. 

In  addition  to  this,  the  legislature  ought  to  vest  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  United  States  with  the  power  to  lay  an  embargo, 
partial  or  general,  and  to  arrest  the  exportation  of  commodities, 
partially  or  generally. 

It  may  also  deserve  consideration,  whether  the  Executive 
ought  not  to  take  measures  to  form  some  concert  of  the  neutral 
powers  for  common  defence. 

Mr.  Hamilton  presents  his  respects  to  the  President — submits 
to  him  some  reveries  which  have  occupied  his  imagination.  It 
may  be  interesting  for  the  President  to  consider  whether  some 
such  plan  is  not  demanded  by  the  conjuncture  of  affairs;  and  if 
so,  whether  there  ought  not  to  be  some  Executive  impulse. 
Many  persons  look  to  the  President  for  the  suggestion  of  mea- 
sures corresponding  with  the  exigency  of  affairs.  As  far  as  this 
idea  may  be  founded,  many  important  and  delicate  ideas  are  in- 
volved in  the  consideration. 

The  pains  taken  to  preserve  peace,  include  a  proportional  re- 
sponsibility that  equal  pains  be  taken  to  be  prepared  for  war. 


CABINET  OPINION. 

March  11th,  1794. 

At  a  meeting  of  the  Heads  of  Departments,  and  the  Attorney- 
General,  on  the  11th  of  March,  1794— 

It  is  advised  unanimously,  that  Mr.  Fauchet  be  informed, 
that  he  shall  be  supplied  with  the  instalments  due  in  September 
and  November  next,  according  to  the  manner  expressed  in  the 
report  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  to  the  President,  on  this 
subject. 

It  is  proposed  by  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  and  of  War, 
and  by  the  Attorney-General,  that  it  be  verbally  stated  to  Mr. 
Fauchet,  by  the  Secretary  of  State,  that,  notwithstanding  the 
desire  of  the  President  to  accommodate  his  request,  the  situation 


Mt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  509 

of  the  United  States  will  not  permit  him  to  go  farther  than  as 
above  mentioned. 

The  Secretary  of  State  proposes,  that  an  attempt  be  made  to 
satisfy  Mr.  Fauchet  verbally,  with  the  foregoing  engagement; 
but  if  he  does  not  relinquish  his  application,  that  it  be  forwarded 
to  Congress. 

Edm.  Kandolph. 

Approved,  reserving  the  last  mentioned  proposition  of  the  Sec 
retary  of  State  for  further  consideration. 

A.  Hamilton, 
H.  Knox, 
Wm.  Bradford. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  March  21st,  1794. 

Sir: 

A  law  having  passed,  to  enable  the  President  to  cause  a  loan 
to  be  made  in  aid  of  the  current  receipts  from  the  public  reve- 
nues, it  is  urgent  that  measures  should  be  taken  without  delay 
for  carrying  it  into  effect. 

The  inclosed  statement  shows  the  probable  situation  of  the 
Treasury  to  the  end  of  the  ensuing  quarter,  as  far  as  materials 
are  now  possessed,  and  manifests  the  necessity  of  an  immediate 
aid  by  loan. 

I  therefore  submit  to  the  President  the  draft  of  a  power  in 
the  usual  form  to  authorize  the  making  of  the  loan. 

With  perfect  respect,  &c. 


510  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  37. 


HAMILTON   TO   WASHINGTON. 

March  24,  1794. 

Sir: 

A  committee  of  tlie  House  of  Kepresentatives,  appointed  to 
inquire  into  the  state  of  the  Treasury  Department,  is  charged, 
among  other  things,  to  inquire  into  the  authorities  from  the 
President  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  respecting  the  making 
and  disbursement  of  the  loans  made  under  the  acts  of  the  4th 
and  12th  August,  1790.  You  will  perceive  by  the  inclosed  copy 
of  a  paper  of  this  date,  delivered  to  the  committee,  the  opinion  I 
entertain  of  the  proper  limits  of  a  legislative  inquiry  on  that 
subject. 

But,  in  the  event  of  a  determination  that  the  inquiry  should 
be  general,  it  becomes  proper  to  fix  with  the  President  the  true 
view  of  facts. 

The  real  course  of  the  transaction  has  been  this.  Before  I 
made  the  disposition  of  any  loan,  I  regularly  communicated  to 
the  President  my  ideas  of  the  proper  disposition,  designating  how 
much  it  would  be  expected  to  pay  to  France — how  much  to 
draw  to  the  United  States,  and  always  received  his  sanction  for 
what  was  adopted  and  afterwards  carried  into  execution.  The 
communication  and  the  sanction  were  verbal  whenever  the 
President  was  at  the  seat  of  government.  In  a  case  of  absence, 
they  were  in  writing.  This  will  appear  from  my  letters  of  the 
10th  and  14th  April,  1791,  and  from  the  President's  answer  of 
the  7th  of  May  following.  My  letters  of  the  29th  July  and  22d 
September,  1791,  and  of  the  August  and  22d  September, 

1792,  contain  a  further  illustration  of  the  general  spirit  of  pro- 
ceeding in  the  case,  in  regard  to  the  consultation  of  the  President. 

The  sanctions  of  the  President  were  sometimes  expressly, 
and  always,  as  I  conceived,  in  their  spirit,  founded  in  a  material 
degree  in  the  confidence  that  the  measures  proposed  were  guided 
by  a  just  estimate  on  my  part  of  circumstances,  which,  from 
situation,  must  have  been  best  known  to  me;  and  that  they 
would  be  always  in  conformity  to  the  law. 

With  the  most  perfect  respect,  &c. 


jEt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  511 


CABINET  OPINION. 

March  26,  1794. 

At  a  meeting  of  the  Heads  of  Departments,  and  the  Attorney- 
General  of  the  United  States,  at  the  President's,  on  the  26th  day 
of  March,  1794— 

The  resolution  of  Congress  of  this  date  being  submitted  to 
them  by  the  President,  for  their  opinion  as  to  the  best  mode  of 
executing  the  same — 

It  is  advised  unanimously,  that  the  Governors  of  the  several 
States  ought  to  be  called  upon  to  enforce  the  said  embargo  by 
the  militia,  whensoever  it  may  be  necessary  to  appeal  to  force. 

Edm.  Eandolph, 
A.  Hamilton, 
H.  Knox, 
Wm.  Bradford. 


CABINET   OPINION. 

March  27,  1794. 
At  a  meeting  of  the  Heads  of  Departments,  and  Attorney- 
General,  March  27,  1794— 

The  Secretary  of  War,  the  Attorney -General,  and  the  Secre- 
tary of  State,  advise  that  the  Conyngham  be  not  delivered  up  to 
the  British  owners ;  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  dissenting. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  the  Secretary  of  War,  and 
the  Attorney-General,  advise  that  the  Pilgrim  be  delivered  up  to 
the  British  owners;  the  Secretary  of  State  dissenting. 

Alex.  Hamilton'. 
H.  Knox, 
W.m.  Bradford, 
Edm.  Randolph. 


12  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  36. 


HAMILTON  TO  A  COMMITTEE   OF  COXGKESS. 

April  1,  1704. 

Iii  the  course  of  the  present  examination,  respecting  the 
point  of  authority  under  which  any  portion  of  the  moneys  bor- 
rowed abroad  had  been  drawn  into  the  United  States,  the  Secre- 
tary of  the  Treasury  did  make  the  following  question : 

"I  ask  the  Committee  appointed  to  inquire  into  the  state  of 
the  Treasury  Department,  whether  they  expect  from  the  Secretary 
of  the  Treasury  the  production  of  any  authorities  from  the  Presi- 
dent to  him,  in  reference  to  the  loans  made  under  the  acts  of  the 
4th  and  12th  of  August,  1790,  except  such  as  regard  merely  the 
making  of  said  loans,  and  the  application  and  disbursement  of 
such  part  of  the  proceeds  of  those  loans,  as  were  to  be  disbursed 
in  foreign  countries. 

"I  object  to  the  being  required  to  produce  any  other  autho- 
rities than  those  excepted,  for  the  following  reasons,  viz. : 

"  1st.  Because  it  results,  from  the  constitution  of  the  Treasury 
Department,  that  all  receipts  and  expenditures  of  public  money, 
within  the  United  States,  must  pass  through  that  department, 
under  the  sanction  of  warrants  from  the  Secretary,  countersigned 
by  the  Comptroller,  and  registered  by  the  Eegister ;  consequently, 
whenever  a  loan  is  made,  either  abroad  or  at  home,  on  account 
of  the  United  States,  destined  for  disbursement  within  the  United 
States,  it  becomes,  ex  officio,  the  province  of  the  Treasury  De- 
partment to  draw  the  proceeds  of  such  loan  into  the  Treasury, 
and  to  disburse  from  thence,  according  to  law. 

"  2d.  Because,  when  it  once  appears  that  the  President  has 
constituted  the  head  of  a  department  his  agent,  for  any  general 
purpose,  intrusted  to  him  by  law,  all  intermediate  authorities 
from  the  President  to  the  agent,  being  conformable  with  law,  are 
to  be  presumed.  The  proper  inquiry  for  the  legislature  must  be, 
whether  the  laws  have  been  duly  executed  or  not ;  if  they  have 
been  duly  executed,  the  question  of  sufficiency  or  deficiency  of 
authority,  from  the  President  to  his  agent,  must  be,  to  the  legis- 
lature, immaterial  and  irrelevant.     That  question  must,  then,  be 


^t.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  513 

a  matter  purely  between  the  President  and  the  agent,  not  exami- 
nable by  the  legislature,  without  interfering  with  the  province  of 
the  Chief  Magistrate,  to  whom  alone  the  responsibility  is. 

"  All  authority  from  the  President  to  do  any  thing  not  war- 
ranted by  the  laws  of  the  4th  and  12  th  of  August,  is  disclaimed. 
A  complete  responsibility  for  the  due  and  faithful  execution  of 
those  laws,  is  admitted  to  rest  on  the  head  of  the  department. 
He  claims  no  protection  from  any  instruction  or  authority  of  the 
President,  for  any  thing  which  may  have  been  irregular  or 
wrong,  but  he  respectfully  conceives  that  the  competency  of  his 
authority  from  the  President  to  do,  what  being  done,  is  con- 
formable with  the  laws,  is  not,  under  the  circumstances  of  the 
case,  a  proper  object  of  legislative  inquiry." 

Upon  the  consideration  of  which  question,  the  Committee 
came  to  the  following  resolution  : 

"  Eesolved,  That  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  be  requested 
to  state  to  the  Committee,  by  what  authority  any  portion  of  the 
moneys  borrowed  abroad  have  been  drawn  to  the  United 
States." 

In  consequence  of  which  resolution  the  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury  laid  before  the  Committee  a  paper  in  the  following 
words : 


HAMILTON   TO   A   COMMITTEE   OF   CONGRESS. 

April  1,  1794. 
Principles  and  course  of  proceeding  with  regard  to  the  disposition  of 
the  moneys  borrowed  abroad,  by  virtue  of  the  acts  of  the  4th  and 
12th  of  Av gust,  1790,  as  to  the  point  of  authority. 

It  was  conceived  by  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  to  be  a 
clear  principle,  resulting  from  the  spirit  of  the  act  constituting 
the  Treasury  Department,  and  from  the  several  provisions  of 
that  act,  collectively  considered,  that  all  public  moneys  once  ob- 
tained, and  destined  for  disbursement  within  the  United  States, 
D  33 


514  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  37. 

came,  of  course,  under  the  direction  of  the  officers  of  that  de- 
partment, according  to  their  respective  functions,  and  that  no 
special  authority  extrinsic  to  the  department  was,  in  strictness, 
necessary  to  enable  them  to  draw  money,  from  whatever  source 
originating,  into  the  Treasury,  or  to  issue  them  thence  for  the 
purposes  designated  by  law. 

It  was  also  conceived  by  him  to  be,  though  a  less  clear  prin- 
ciple, one  most  agreeable  to  the  true  spirit  of  the  constitution  of 
the  department,  as  well  as  essential  to  the  preservation  of  order 
and  due  accountability  in  the  money  transactions  of  the  country, 
that  even  moneys  procured  abroad,  and  to  be  disbursed  abroad, 
were,  as  to  their  application,  to  be  under  the  direction  of  the 
same  department. 

Under  the  influence  of  these  principles,  thus  entertained  with 
different  degrees  of  assurance  (the  President  having  determined 
to  place  the  procuring  of  the  loans  under  the  direction  of  the 
Secretary  of  the  Treasury),  the  following  course  of  proceeding 
was  pursued : 

The  Secretary  obtained  from  the  President,  in  the  first  place, 
a  general  commission  to  him  to  make  the  loans  authorized  by 
the  two  acts  of  the  4th  and  12th  of  August.  A  copy  of  this 
commission  was  communicated  to  the  House  of  Eepresentatives, 
in  the  last  session.     No.  1  is  dated  the  28th  of  August. 

He  also  obtained  from  the  President  an  instruction,  dated 
same  day,  to  guide  and  justify  him — 1st,  with  regard  to  the  per- 
son to  be  employed  in  Europe  in  negotiating  the  loans ;  2d,  with 
regard  to  the  extent  to  which  the  loans  under  the  first  act,  and 
payments  on  account  of  the  foreign  debt,  should  be  carried,  at 
all  events,  exclusively  of  the  consideration  of  the  advantageous- 
ness  of  the  terms  of  the  loans. 

Nevertheless,  from  the  special  connection  of  the  President 
with  the  subject,  owing  to  the  authority  to  borrow  being  imme- 
diately vested  in  him ;  from  the  circumstance  of  the  existence  of 
a  particular  discretion  to  be  exercised  by  the  President  as  to  an- 
ticipated payments  of  the  foreign  debt ;  and  from  the  official 
relation  of  each  head  of  a  department  to  the  President;  the 
Secretary  of  the  Treasury  considered  it  as  his  duty,  from  time  to 


JEt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  515 

time,  to  submit  the  disposition  of  each  loan  to  the  consideration 
of  the  President,  with  his  reasons  for  such  disposition,  and  to 
obtain  the  sanction  of  the  President  previous  to  carrying  it  into 
effect,  which  was  always  had. 

The  communications  to  the  President  and  his  sanctions  were 
for  the  most  part  verbal.  Two  exceptions  appear,  from  letters 
(herewith  shown)  of  the  Secretary  to  the  President,  of  the  10th 
and  14th  of  April,  and  22d  of  September,  1791,  and  from  the 
President  to  him  of  the  7th  of  May,  1791,  relating  to  a  case  of 
absence  from  the  seat  of  government.  These  letters  are  evidence 
of  the  course  and  spirit  of  proceeding. 

It  is  to  be  understood  that  the  sanctions  of  the  President  were 
always  bottomed  upon  the  representations  of  the  Secretarj^,  and 
were  always  expressly  or  tacitly  qualified  with  this  condition, 
that  "  whatever  was  to  be  done,  was  to  be  agreeable  to  the  laws." 

Whereupon  the  Committee  came  to  the  following  resolution : 
"Kesolved,  That  it  would  be  satisfactory  to  the  Committee, 
that  the  papers  submitted  to  them  April  1st,  1794,  by  the  Secre- 
tary of  the  Treasury,  respecting  the  point  of  authority  under 
which  moneys  borrowed  abroad  have  been  drawn  to  the  United 
States,  should  be  presented  to  the  President  of  the  United  States  ; 
and  that  the  Secretary  should  obtain  from  him  concerning  the 
same,  such  declaration  as  the  President  may  think  proper  to 
make." 


WASHINGTON  TO   HAMILTON. 

Tuesday.  April  8,  1794. 

Dear  Sir: 

Annexed  to  your  statement  of  "  Principles  and  course  of 
Proceedings,"  I  have  given  the  certificate  required. 
I  am  yours  always, 

Geo.  Washington. 


516  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.M. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Philadelphia,  April  8th,  1794. 

Sir: 

I  cannot  charge  my  memory  with  all  the  particulars,  which 
have  passed  between  us,  relative  to  the  disposition  of  the  money 
borrowed.  Your  letters,  however,  and  my  answer,  which  you 
refer  to  in  the  foregoing  statement,  and  lately  reminded  me  of, 
speak  for  themselves,  and  stand  in  need  of  no  explanation. 

As  to  verbal  communications,  I  am  satisfied  that  many  were 
made  by  you  to  me  on  this  subject ;  and,  from  my  general  recol- 
lection of  the  course  of  proceedings,  I  do  not  doubt  that  it  was 
substantially  as  you  have  stated  it  in  the  annexed  paper,  and 
that  I  have  approved  of  the  measures  which  you  from  time  to 
time  proposed  to  me  for  disposing  of  the  loans,  upon  the  con- 
dition, that  what  was  to  be  done  by  you  should  be  agreeable  to 
the  laws. 

I  am,  &c. 


HAMILTON   TO   WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  April  9th,  1794. 

Sir: 

I  have  analyzed  the  declaration  which  you  have  been  pleased 
to  make  upon  the  copy  of  the  paper  of  the  first  instant,  delivered 
by  me  to  the  Committee  of  Inquiry  into  the  state  of  the  Treasury 
Department,  and  find,  with  regret,  that  the  terms  used  are  such 
as  will  enable  those  who  are  disposed  to  construe  every  thing  to 
my  disadvantage,  to  affirm,  "  that  the  declaration  of  the  Presi- 
dent has  entirely  waived  the A  main  point,  and  does  not  even 
manifest  an  opinion  that  the  representation  of  the  Secretary  of 
the  Treasury  is  well  founded." 

To  this  it  would  be  added,  that  the  reserve  of  the  President 
is  a  proof  that  he  does  not  think  that  representation  true,  else  his 


jEt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS,  517 

justice  would  have  led  him  to  rescue  the  officer  concerned  even 
from  suspicion  on  the  point. 

That  this  will  be  the  interpretation  put  upon  your  declara- 
tion, I  have  no  doubt;  and,  in  justice  to  myself,  I  cannot  for- 
bear to  make  this  impression  known  to  you,  and  to  bring  the 
declaration  under  your  revision. 

I  am  the  more  certain  that  this  construction  will  be  put  upon 
the  fact,  from  what  has  heretofore  taken  place.  In  the  course  of 
the  discussion  of  the  last  session,  an  argument  of  this  kind  was, 
in  private,  urged  against  me :  "If  Mr.  Hamilton  had  really 
acted  by  the  authority  of  the  President,  or  in  due  communica- 
tion with  him,  would  not  the  President  take  some  method, 
either  directly  to  Mr.  Madison,  or  through  Mr.  Jefferson  or  Mr. 
Kandolph,  to  make  known  to  him  that  this  ground  of  accusation 
did  not  exist  ?  His  not  doing  it,  which  -may  be  inferred  from 
Mr.  Madison's  urging  the  point,  is  a  proof  that  there  was  no  co- 
operation on  his  part." 

In  addition  to  this,  I  have  learnt,  from  an  authentic  source, 
that  a  particular  gentleman,  supposed  to  possess  good  opportuni- 
ties of  information,  has  intimated,  in  a  manner  to  induce  a  be- 
lief of  its  having  come  from  you,  that  it  never  was  your  inten- 
tion that  any  of  the  loans  which  were  made  should  have  had 
reference  to  the  act  making  provision  for  the  reduction  of  the 
public  debt,  and  that  you  never  knew  any  thing  of  the  opera- 
tion while  it  was  going  on. 

Under  all  that  has  happened,  sir,  I  cannot  help  entertaining, 
and  frankly  expressing  to  you,  an  apprehension,  that  false  and 
insidious  men,  whom  you  may  one  day  understand,  taking  the 
advantage  of  the  want  of  recollection,  which  is  natural  when  the 
mind  is  habitually  occupied  with  a  variety  of  important  objects, 
have  found  means,  by  artful  suggestions,  to  infuse  doubts  and 
distrusts  very  injurious  to  me. 

My  consciousness  of  what  has  been  the  real  tenor  of  my  con- 
duct, and  my  conviction  of  the  fairness  and  rectitude  of  your 
mind,  compel  me  to  this  conclusion. 

Upon  this,  as  upon  every  other  occasion,  my  desire  is  to  en- 
counter, directly  and  without  detour,  whatever  embarrassment 


518  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [M?.  37. 

may  stand  in  my  way.  If  contrary  to  what  I  understood  from 
Mr.  Lear,  during  the  discussion  of  the  matter  in  Congress,  and 
inferred  from  the  late  conversations  with  you,  the  affair  does  not 
stand  icell  in  your  mind,  I  request  the  opportunity  of  a  full 
and  free  conference  on  the  subject,  to  recapitulate  and  go  over 
all  the  circumstances  which  have  occurred,  in  the  hope  of  recall- 
ing to  your  memory  what  may  have  escaped  it,  and  with  a  wish 
to  abide  the  result  in  an  explicit  form ;  that  is,  by  a  declaration 
which  shall  render  the  main  fact  unambiguous,  or  shall  record 
the  doubt. 

As,  on  the  one  hand,  I  expect  what  is  due  to  the  situation, 
so,  on  the  other,  I  seek  no  palliation  of  delinquency,  no  cover  for 
any  defect  of  conduct. 

The  situation  is  indeed  an  unpleasant  one.  Having  con- 
ducted an  important  piece  of  public  business  in  a  spirit  of  confi- 
dence ;  dictated  by  an  unqualified  reliance,  on  the  one  hand, 
upon  the  rectitude,  candor,  and  delicacy  of  the  person  under 
whom  I  was  acting ;  on  the  other,  by  a  persuasion  that  the  ex- 
perience of  years  had  secured  to  me  a  reciprocal  sentiment 
(whatever  imperfections  it  may  have  otherwise  discovered) ;  and 
by  the  belief,  likewise,  that  however  particular  instances  might 
be  forgotten,  the  general  course  of  proceeding  in  so  important 
an  affair  could  not  but  be  remembered ;  I  did  not  look  for  a  dif- 
ficulty like  that  which  now  seems  to  press  me.  Knowing,  too, 
that  there  existed  in  my  written  communications  with  the  Presi- 
dent (not  only  those  which  have  been  specified,  but  others),  so 
many  direct  and  indirect  indications  of  what  was  truly  the 
course  pursued,  I  still  less  apprehended  a  difficulty  of  that  na- 
ture when  the  occasion  for  explanation  should  occur. 

Not  seeking  to  escape  responsibility  for  any  improper  execu- 
tion of  the  laws — if  any  has  happened — I  do  not  imagine  that 
want  of  immediate  authority  from  the  President  to  do  what  they 
would  justify,  would  be  suffered  to  remain  (the  appeal  being 
made  to  him)  a  topic  of  objection  to  my  conduct. 

In  the  freedom  of  these  remarks,  I  flatter  myself,  sir,  that 
you  will  perceive  nothing  but  that  just  sensibility  which  a  man 
of  honor,  who  thinks  his  veracity  exposed  to  question,  ought  to 


Mt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  519 

feel ;  and  that  you  will  be  persuaded  I  continue  yet  to  retain, 
undiminished,  all  that  respect  which  a  long  established  con- 
viction of  the  existence  of  an  upright  and  virtuous  character 
ought  to  inspire.  « 

With  this  sentiment,  I  have  the  honor  to  remain,  sir,  your 
most  obedient  and  humble  servant, 

Alexander  Hamilton. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  April  14th,  1794. 

Sir: 

The   present  is  beyond  question  a  great,  a  difficult  and  a 

perilous  crisis  in  the  affairs  of  this  country In  such  a 

crisis  it  is  the  duty  of  every  man,  according  to  situation,  to  con- 
tribute all  in  his  power  towards  preventing  evil  and  producing 
good.  This  consideration  will,  I  trust,  be  a  sufficient  apology 
for  the  liberty  I  am  about  to  take  of  submitting,  without  an  offi- 
cial call,  the  ideas  which  occupy  my  mind  concerning  the  actual 
posture  of  our  public  affairs.  It  cannot  but  be  of  great  impor- 
tance that  the  Chief  Magistrate  should  be  informed  of  the  real 
state  of  things,  and  it  is  not  easy  for  him  to  have  this  information 
but  through  those  principal  officers  who  have  most  frequent 
access  to  him.  Hence  an  obligation  on  their  part  to  communi- 
cate information  on  occasions  like  the  present. 

A  course  of  accurate  observation  has  impressed  on  my  mind 

a  full  conviction,  that  there  exist  in  our  councils three 

considerable  parties, — one,  decided  for  preserving  peace  by  every 
effort  which  shall  any  way  consist  with  the  ultimate  mainte- 
nance of  the  national  honor  and  rights,  and  disposed  to  cultivate 

with  all  nations  a  friendly  understanding another,  decided 

for  war,  and  resolved  to  bring  it  about  by  every  expedient  which 

shall  not  too  directly  violate  the  public  opinion a  third, 

not  absolutely  desirous  of  war,  but  solicitous  at  all  events  to 


520  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  37. 

excite  and  keep  alive  irritation  and  ill-humor  between  the  United 
States  and  Great  Britain,  not  unwilling  in  the  pursuit  of  this 
object  to  expose  the  peace  of  the  country  to  imminent  hazards. 

The  views  of  the  first  party  in  respect  to  the  questions  between 
Great  Britain  and  us,  favor  the  following  course  of  conduct :  to 
take  effectual  measures  of  military  preparation,  creating,  in 
earnest,  force  and  revenue — to  vest  the  President  with  important 
powers  respecting  navigation  and  commerce  for  ulterior  contin- 
gencies— to  endeavor  by  another  effort  of  negotiation,  confided 
to  hands  able  to  manage  it,  and  friendly  to  the  object,  to  obtain 
reparation  for  the  wrongs  we  suffer,  and  a  demarkation  of  a  line 
of  conduct  to  govern  in  future — to  avoid  till  the  issue  of  that 
experiment  all  measures  of  a  nature  to  occasion  a  conflict  be- 
tween the  motives  which  might  dispose  the  British  Government 
to  do  us  the  justice  to  which  we  are  entitled  and  the  sense  of  its 
own  dignity.  If  that  experiment  fails,  then  and  not  till  then  to 
resort  to  reprisals  and  war. 

The  views  of  the  second  party,  in  respect  to  the  same  ques- 
tions, favor  the  following  course  of  conduct :  to  say  and  to  do  every 
thing  which  can  have  a  tendency  to  stir  up  the  passions  of  the 
people  and  beget  a  disposition  favorable  to  war — to  make  use  of 
the  inflammation  which  is  excited  in  the  community  for  the  pur- 
poses of  carrying  through  measures  calculated  to  disgust  Great 
Britain,  and  to  render  an  accommodation  impracticable  without 
humiliation  to  her,  which  they  do  not  believe  will  be  submitted 
to ;  in  fine,  to  provoke  and  bring  on  war  by  indirect  means,  with- 
out declaring  it  or  even  avowing  the  intention ;  because  they 
know  the  public  mind  is  not  yet  prepared  for  such  an  extremity, 
and  they  fear  to  encounter  the  direct  responsibility  of  being  the 
authors  of  a  war. 

The  views  of  the  third  party  lead  them  to  favor  the  measures 
of  the  second — but  without  a  perfect  coincidence  in  the  result. 
They  weakly  hope  that  they  may  hector  and  vapor  with  success 
— that  the  pride  of  Great  Britain  will  yield  to  her  interest,  and 
that  they  may  accomplish  the  object  of  perpetuating  animosity 
between  the  two  countries  without  involving  war.  There  are 
some  characters,  not  numerous,  who  do  not  belong  to  either  oi 


JBt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  521 

these  classes,  but  who  fluctuate  between  them  as,  in  the  conflict 
between  Eeason  and  Passion,  the  one  or  the  other  prevails. 

It  may  seem  difficult  to  admit,  in  the  situation  of  this  country, 
that  there  are  parties  of  the  description  of  the  two  last ;  men 
who  can  either  systematically  meditate  war  or  can  be  willing  to 
risk  it  otherwise  than  by  the  use  of  means  which  they  deem 
necessary  to  insure  reparation  for  the  injuries  we  experience. 

But  a  due  attention  to  the  course  of  the  human  passions,  as 
recorded  in  history,  and  exemplified  by  daily  occurrences,  is 
sufficient  to  obviate  all  difficulty  on  this  head. 

Wars  oftener  proceed  from  angry  and  perverse  passions  than 
from  cool  calculations  of  interest.  This  position  is  admitted 
without  difficulty  when  we  are  judging  of  the  hostile  appearances 
in  the  measures  of  Great  Britain  towards  this  country.  What 
reason  can  there  be  wiry  it  should  not  be  as  good  a  test  of  similar 
appearances  on  our  part  ?  As  men  it  is  equally  applicable  to  us, 
— and  the  symptoms  are  strong  of  our  being  readily  enough 
worked  up  into  a  degree  of  rage  and  frenzy,  which  goes  very  far 
towards  silencing  the  voice  of  reason  and  interest. 

Those  who  compose  the  parties  whose  measures  have  a  war 
aspect,  are  under  the  influence  of  some  of  the  strongest  passions 
that  can  actuate  human  conduct.  They  unite  from  habitual  feel- 
ing in  an  implacable  hatred  to  Great  Britain  and  a  warm  attach- 
ment to  France.  Their  animosity  against  the  former  is  inflamed 
by  the  most  violent  resentment  for  recent  and  unprovoked  inju- 
ries— in  many  instances  by  personal  loss  and  suffering  of  inti- 
mate friends  and  connections.  Their  sympathy  with  the  latter  is 
increased  by  the  idea  of  her  being  engaged  in  defending  the 
cause  of  liberty  against  a  combination  of  despots,  who  meditate 
nothing  less  than  the  destruction  of  it  throughout  the  world. 
In  hostility  with  Britain,  they  seek  the  gratification  of  revenge 
upon  a  detested  enemy  with  that  of  serving  a  favorite  friend,  and 
in  this  the  cause  of  liberty.  They  anticipate,  also,  what  is,  in  their 
estimation,  a  great  political  good,  a  more  complete  and  perma- 
nent alienation  from  Great  Britain,  and  a  more  close  approxima- 
tion to  France.  Those  even  of  them  who  do  not  wish  the 
extremity  of  war,  consider  it  as  a  less  evil  than  a  thorough  and 


522  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  37. 

sincere  accommodation  with  Great  Britain,  and  are  willing  to 
risk  the  former  rather  than  lose  an  opportunity  so  favorable  as 
the  present  to  extend  and  rivet  the  springs  of  ill-will  against  that 
nation. 

However  necessary  it  is  to  veil  this  policy  in  public,  in  private 
there  are  not  much  pains  taken  to  disguise  it.  Some  gentlemen 
do  not  scruple  to  say  that  pacification  is  and  ought  to  be  out  of 
the  question. 

What  has  been  heretofore  said  relates  only  to  persons  in  pub- 
lic character.  If  we  extend  our  view  from  these  to  the  commu- 
nity at  large,  we  shall  there  also  find  a  considerable  diversity  of 
opinion — partisans  of  patience,  negotiation  and  peace,  if  possible, 
and  partisans  of  war.  There  is  no  doubt  much  of  irritation  now 
afloat;  many  advocates  for  measures  tending  to  produce  war. 
But  it  would  be  a  great  mistake  to  infer  from  these  appearances 
that  the  prevailing  sentiment  of  the  country  is  for  war — or  that 
there  would  be  either  a  willing  acquiescence  or  a  zealous  co- 
operation in  it  if  the  proceedings  of  the  government  should  not 
be  such  as  to  render  it  manifest,  beyond  question,  that  war  was 
inevitable  but  by  an  absolute  sacrifice  of  the  rights  and  interests 
of  the  nation — that  the  race  of  prudence  was  completely  run, 
and  that  nothing  was  done  to  invite  hostility,  or  left  undone  to 
avoid  it. 

It  is  to  my  mind  unequivocal  that  the  great  mass  of  opinion 
in  the  Eastern  States  and  in  the  State  of  New- York  is  against 
war,  if  it  can  be  avoided,  without  absolute  dishonor  or  the  ulti- 
mate sacrifice  of  essential  rights  and  interests; — and  I  verily 
believe  that  the  same  sentiment  is  the  radical  one  throughout  the 
United  States,  some  of  the  towns,  perhaps,  excepted ;  where  even 
it  is  much  to  be  doubted  whether  there  would  not  be  a  minority 
for  the  affirmative  if  the  naked  question  was  presented  of  war, 
or  of  measures  which  should  be  acknowledged  to  have  a  tendency 
to  promote  or  produce  it. 

The  natural  inference  from  such  a  state  of  the  public  mind 
is,  that  if  measures  are  adopted  with  the  disapprobation  and  dis- 
sent of  a  large  and  enlightened  minority  of  Congress,  which  in 
the  event  should  appear  to  have  been  obstacles  to  a  peaceable 


jEt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  523 

adjustment  of  our  differences  with  Great  Britain,  there  would  be, 
under  the  pressure  of  the  evils  produced  by  them,  a  deep  and 
extensive  dissatisfaction  with  the  conduct  of  the  government — a    v 
loss  of  confidence  in  it,  and  an  impatience  under  the  measures, 
which  war  would  render  unavoidable. 

Prosperous  as  is  truly  the  situation  of  the  country ;  great  as 
would  be  the  evils  of  war  to  it,  it  would  hardly  seem  to  admit 
of  a  doubt,  that  no  chance  for  preserving  peace  ought  to  be  lost 
or  diminished,  in  compliance  either  with  resentment,  or  the  spec- 
ulative ideas  which  are  the  arguments  for  a  hostile  course  of 
conduct. 

At  no  moment  were  the  indications  of  a  pltfn  on  the  part  of 
Great  Britain  to  go  to  war  with  us,  sufficiently  decisive  to  pre- 
elude  the  hope  of  averting  it  by  a  negotiation  conducted  with 
prudent  energy,  and  seconded  by  such  military  preparations  as 
should  be  demonstrative  of  a  resolution  eventually  to  vindicate 
our  rights.  The  revocation  of  the  instructions  of  the  6th  of  No- 
vember, even  with  the  relaxation  of  some  pretensions  which 
Great  Britain  has  in  former  wars  maintained  against  neutral 
powers,  is  full  evidence  that  if  the  system  was  before  for  war,  it 
was  then  changed.  The  events  which  have  taken  place  in  Eu- 
rope are  of  a  nature  to  render  it  probable  that  such  a  system 
will  not  be  revived,  and  that  by  prudent  management  we  may 
still  escape  a  calamity  which  we  have  the  strongest  motives,  in- 
ternal, as  well  as  external,  to  shun. 

I  express  myself  thus,  because  it  is  certainly  not  an  idle  ap- 
prehension, that  the  example  of  France,  (whose  excesses  are 
with  too  many  an  object  of  apology,  if  not  of  justification,)  may 
be  found  to  have  unhinged  the  orderly  principles  of  the  people 
of  this  country ;  and  that  war,  by  putting  in  motion  all  the  tur- 
bulent passions,  and  promoting  a  further  assimilation  of  our 
principles  with  those  of  France,  may  prove  to  be  the  threshold 
ol  disorganization  and  anarchy. 

The  late  successes  of  France  have  produced  in  this  country 
conclusions  much  too  sanguine  with  regard  to  the  event  of  the 
contest.  They  no  doubt  afford  a  high  probability  of  her  being 
able,  eventually,  to  defend  herself,  especially  under  a  form  of 


524  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  37. 

administration  of  such  unexampled  vigor  as  that  by  which  she 
has  of  late  managed  her  affairs. 

But  there  will  be  nothing  wonderful  in  a  total  reverse  of  for- 
tune during  the  ensuing  campaign.  Human  nature  must  be  an 
absolutely  different  thing  in  France  from  what  it  has  hitherto 
shown  itself  to  be  throughout  the  globe,  and  in  all  ages,  if  there 
do  not  exist  in  a  large  proportion  of  the  French  nation,  germs  of 
the  profoundest  discontent,  ready  to  burst  into  vegetation  the 
moment  there  should  appear  an  efficacious  prospect  of  protection 
and  shade  from  the  progress  of  the  invading  armies.  And  if 
having  possessed  themselves  of  some  of  the  keys  of  France,  the 
principle  of  the  commencing  campaign  should  be  different  from 
that  of  the  past,  active  field  operations  succeeding  to  the  wasteful 
and  dilatory  process  of  sieges,  who  can  say  that  victory  may  not 
so  far  crown  the  enterprises  of  the  coalesced  powers,  as  to  open 
the  way  to  an  internal  explosion  which  may  prove  fatal  to  the 
republic?  'Tis  now  evident  that  another  vigorous  campaign 
will  be  essayed  by  the  allies.  The  result  is,  and  must  be,  incaU 
culable. 

To  you,  sir,  it  is  unnecessary  to  urge  the  extreme  precarious- 
ness  of  the  events  of  war.  The  inference  to  be  drawn  is  too 
manifest  to  escape  your  penetration.  This  country  ought  not  to 
set  itself  afloat  upon  an  ocean  so  fluctuating,  so  dangerous,  and 
so  uncertain,  but  in  a  case  of  absolute  necessity. 

That  necessity  is  certainly  not  yet  apparent.  The  circum- 
stances which  have  been  noticed  with  regard  to  the  recent  change 
of  conduct  on  the  part  of  Great  Britain,  authorize  a  strong  hope 
that  a  negotiation,  conducted  with  ability  and  moderation,  and 
supported  at  home  by  demonstrations  of  vigor  and  seriousness, 
would  obviate  those  causes  of  collision  which  are  the  most  ur- 
gent— might  even  terminate  others,  which  have  so  long  fostered 
dissatisfaction  and  enmity.  There  is  room  to  suppose  that  the 
moment  is  peculiarly  favorable  to  such  an  attempt.  On  this 
point  there  are  symptoms  of  a  common  sentiment  between  the 
advocates  and  the  opposers  of  an  unembarrassed  attempt  to  nego- 
tiate, the  former  desiring  it  from  the  confidence  they  have  in  its 
probable  success,  the  latter,  from  the  same  cause,  endeavoring  either 


jEt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  525 

to  prevent  its  going  on  under  right  auspices,  or  to  clog  it  with  impedi- 
ments which  will  frustrate  its  effect. 

All  ostensibly  agree,  that  one  more  experiment  of  negotiation 
ought  to  precede  actual  war ;  but  there  is  this  serious  difference 
in  the  practice.  The  sincere  friends  of  peace  and  accommoda- 
tion are  for  leaving  things  in  a  state  which  will  enable  Great 
Britain,  without  abandoning  self-respect,  to  do  us  the  justice  we 
seek.  The  others  are  for  placing  things  upon  a  footing  which 
would  involve  the  disgrace  or  disrepute  of  having  receded 
through  intimidation. 

This  last  scheme  indubitably  ends  in  war.  The  folly  is  too 
great  to  be  seriously  entertained  by  the  discerning  part  of  those 
who  affect  to  believe  the  position — that  Great  Britain,  fortified 
by  the  alliances  of  the  greatest  part  of  Europe,  will  submit  to 
our  demands,  urged  with  the  face  of  coercion,  and  preceded  by 
acts  of  reprisal.  She  cannot  do  it  without  renouncing  her  pride 
and  her  dignity,  without  losing  her  consequence  and  weight  in 
the  scale  of  nations  ;  and,  consequently,  it  is  morally  certain  that 
she  will  not  do  it.  A  proper  estimate  of  the  operation  of  the 
human  passions,  must  satisfy  us  that  she  would  be  less  disposed 
to  receive  the  law  from  us  than  from  any  other  nation — a  people 
recently  become  a  nation,  not  long  since  one  of  her  dependen- 
cies, and  as  yet  if  a  Hercules,  a  Hercules  in  the  cradle. 

AVhen  one  nation  inflicts  injuries  upon  another,  which  are 
causes  of  war,  if  this  other  means  to  negotiate  before  it  goes  to 
war,  the  usual  and  received  course  is  to  prepare  for  war,  and 
proceed  to  negotiation,  avoiding  reprisals  till  the  issue  of  the 
negotiation.  This  course  is  recommended  by  all  enlightened 
writers  on  the  laws  of  nations,  as  the  course  of  moderation,  pro- 
priety, and  wisdom;  and  it  is  that  commonly  pursued,  except 
where  there  is  a  disposition  to  go  to  war,  or  a  commanding  supe- 
riority of  power. 

Preparation  for  war,  in  such  cases,  contains  in  it  nothing 
offensive.  It  is  a  mere  precaution  for  Belf-defence,  under  circum- 
stances which  endanger  tin.'  breaking  out  of  war.  It  gives  rise  to 
no  point  of  honor  which  can  be  a  bar  to  equitable  and  amicable 
negotiation.     But  acts  of  reprisal  speak  a  contrary  effect — they 


526  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^t.  37. 

change  negotiation  into  peremptory  demand,  and  they  brandish 
a  rod  over  the  party  on  whom  the  demand  is  made.  He  must  be 
humble  indeed,  if  he  comply  with  the  demand  to  avoid  the 
stripe. 

Such  are  the  propositions  which  have  lately  appeared  in  the 
House  of  Eepresentatives,  for  the  sequestration  or  arrestation  of 
British  debts — for  the  cutting  off  all  intercourse  with  Great  Bri- 
fcain,  till  she  shall  do  certain  specific  things.  If  such  proposi- 
tions pass,  they  can  only  be  regarded  as  provocatives  to  a  decla- 
ration of  war  by  Great  Britain. 

The  sequestration  of  debts  is  treated  by  all  writers  as  one  of 
the  highest  species  of  reprisal.  It  is,  moreover,  contrary  to  the 
most  approved  practice  of  the  present  century ;  to  what  may  be 
safely  pronounced  to  be  the  modern  rule  of  the  law  of  nations ;  to 
what  is  so  plainly  dictated  by  original  principles  of  justice  and 
good  faith,  that  nothing  but  the  barbarism  of  times  in  which  war 
was  the  principal  business  of  man  could  ever  have  tolerated  an  op- 
posite practice ;  to  the  manifest  interest  of  a  people  situated  like 
that  of  the  United  States,  which,  having  a  vast  fund  of  materials 
for  improvement  in  various  ways,  ought  to  invite  into  the  channels 
of  their  industry  the  capital  of  Europe,  by  giving  to  it  inviolable 
security — which,  giving  little  facility  to  extensive  revenue  from 
taxation,  ought,  for  its  own  safety  in  war,  to  cherish  its  credit  by 
a  religious  observance  of  the  rules  of  credit  in  all  their  branches. 

The  proposition  for  cutting  of!  all  intercourse  with  Great 
Britain  has  not  yet  sufficiently  developed  itself  to  enable  us  to 
pronounce  what  it  truly  is.  It  may  be  so  extensive  in  its  pro- 
visions as  even  to  include  in  fact,  though  not  in  form,  sequestra- 
tion, by  rendering  remittances  penal  or  impracticable.  Indeed, 
it  can  scarcely  avoid  so  far  interfering  with  the  payment  of 
debts  already  contracted,  as  in  a  great  degree  to  amount  to  a  vir- 
tual sequestration.  But,  however  this  may  be,  being  adopted  for 
the  express  purpose  of  retaliating  or  punishing  injuries,  to  continue 
until  those  injuries  are  redressed,  it  is  in  the  spirit  of  a  reprisal. 
Its  principle  is  avowedly  coercion — a  principle  directly  opposite  to 
that  of  negotiation,  which  supposes  an  appeal  to  the  reason  and 
justice  of  the  party.     Caustic  and  stimulant  in  the  highest  de- 


Mr.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  527 

gree,  it  cannot  fail  to  have  a  correspondent  effect  upon  the  minds 
of  those  against  whom  it  is  directed.  It  cannot  fail  to  be  viewed 
as  originating  in  motives  of  the  most  hostile  and  overbearing 
kind — to  stir  up  all  the  feelings  of  pride  and  resentment  in  the 
nation  as  well  as  in  the  cabinet ;  and,  consequently,  to  render  ne- 
gotiation abortive. 

It  will  be  wonderful  if  the  immediate  effect  of  either  of  these 
measures  be  not  either  war  or  the  seizure  of  our  vessels  wherever 
they  are  found,  on  the  ground  of  keeping  them  as  hostages  for 
the  debts  due  to  the  British  merchants,  and  on  the  additional 
ground  of  the  measures  themselves  being  either  acts  of  hostility 
or  evidence  of  a  disposition  to  hostility. 

The  interpretation  will  naturally  be,  that  our  views,  originally 
pacific,  have  changed  with  the  change  in  the  affairs  of  France, 
and  are  now  bent  towards  war. 

The  measures  in  question,  besides  the  objection  to  them  re- 
sulting from  their  tendency  to  produce  war,  are  condemned  by  a 
comprehensive  and  enlightened  view  of  their  operation  in  other 
respects.  They  cannot  but  have  a  malignant  influence  upon  our 
public  and  mercantile  credit.  They  will  be  regarded  abroad  as 
violent  and  precipitate.  It  will  be  said,  there  is  no  reliance  to 
be  placed  on  the  steadiness  or  solidity  of  concerns  with  this 
people.  Every  gust  that  arises  on  the  political  sky  is  the  signal 
for  measures  tending  to  destroy  their  ability  to  pay,  or  to  ob- 
struct the  course  of  payment.  Instead  of  a  people  pacific,  for- 
bearing, moderate,  and  of  rigid  probity,  we  see  in  them  a  people 
turbulent,  hasty,  intemperate,  and  loose,  sporting  with  their  in- 
dividual obligations,  and  disturbing  the  general  course  of  their 
affairs  with  levity  and  inconsiderateness. 

Such  will  indubitably  be  the  comment  upon  our  conduct. 
The  favorable  impressions  now  entertained  of  the  character  of 
our  government  and  nation  will  infallibly  be  reversed. 

The  cutting  off  of  intercourse  with  Great  Britain,  to  distress  her 
seriously,  must  extend  to  the  prohibition  of  all  her  commodities, 
indirectly  as  well  as  directly;  else  it  will  have  no  other  operation 
than  to  transfer  the  trade  between  the  two  countries  to  the  hands 
of  foreigners,  to  our  disadvantage  more  than  to  that  of  Great 
Britain. 


528  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  37. 

If  it  extends  to  the  total  prohibition  of  her  commodities,  how- 
ever brought,  it  deprives  us  of  a  supply,  for  which  no  substitute 
can  be  found  elsewhere — a  supply  necessary  to  us  in  peace,  and 
more  necessary  to  us  if  we  are  to  go  to  war.  It  gives  a  sudden 
and  violent  blow  to  our  revenue,  which  cannot  easily,  if  at  all,  be 
repaired  from  other  resources.  It  will  give  so  great  an  interrup- 
tion to  commerce  as  may  very  possibly  interfere  with  the  pay- 
ment of  the  duties  which  have  heretofore  accrued,  and  bring  the 
Treasury  to  an  absolute  stoppage  of  payment — an  event  which 
would  cut  up  credit  by  the  roots. 

The  consequences  of  so  great  and  so  sudden  a  disturbance  of 
our  trade,  which  must  affect  our  exports  as  well  as  our  imports, 
cannot  be  calculated.  An  excessive  rise  in  the  price  of  foreign 
commodities — a  proportionable  decrease  of  price  and  demand  of 
our  own  commodities — the  derangement  of  our  revenue  and 
credit — these  circumstances  united  may  occasion  the  most  dan- 
gerous dissatisfactions  and  disorders  in  the  community,  and  may 
drive  the  government  to  a  disgraceful  retreat,  independent  of 
foreign  causes. 

To  adopt  the  measure  in  terrorem,  and  postpone  its  operation, 
will  be  scarcely  a  mitigation  of  the  evil.  The  expectation  of  it 
will,  as  to  our  imports,  have  the  effect  of  the  realhy,  since  we 
must  obtain  what  Ave  want  chiefly  upon  credit.  Our  supply  and 
our  revenue,  therefore,  will  suffer  nearly  as  much  as  if  there  was 
an  immediate  interrruption. 

The  effect  with  regard  to  our  peace  will  be  the  same.  The 
principle  being  menace  and  coercion,  will  equally  recommend 
resistance  to  the  policy  as  well  as  the  pride  of  the  other  party. 
'Tis  only  to  consult  our  own  hearts  to  be  convinced  that  nations, 
like  individuals,  revolt  at  the  idea  of  being  guided  by  external 
compulsion.  They  will,  at  least,  only  yield  to  that  idea  after  re- 
sistance has  been  fruitlessly  tried  in  all  its  forms. 

'Tis  as  great  an  error  for  a  nation  to  overrate  as  to  underrate 
itself.  Presumption  is  as  great  a  fault  as  timidity.  'Tis  our 
error  to  overrate  ourselves  and  underrate  Great  Britain ;  we  for- 
get how  little  we  can  annoy,  how  much  we  may  be  annoyed. 

"Tis  enough  for  us,  situated  as  we  are,  to  be  resolved  to  vindi- 


Mt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  529 

cate  our  honor  and  rights  in  the  last  extremity.  To  precipitate 
a  great  conflict  of  any  sort  is  utterly  unsuited  to  our  condition,  to 
our  strength,  or  to  our  resources.  This  is  a  truth  to  be  well 
weighed  by  every  wise  and  dispassionate  man,  as  the  rule  of 
public  action. 

There  are  two  ideas  of  immense  consequence  to  us  in  the 
event  of  war  :  the  disunion  of  our  enemies — the  perfect  union  of 
our  own  citizens.  Justice  and  moderation,  united  with  firmness, 
are  the  means  to  secure  both  these  advantages ;  injustice  or  in- 
temperance will  lose  both. 

Unanimity  among  ourselves,  which  is  the  most  important  of 
the  two  ideas,  can  only  be  secured  by  its  being  manifest,  if  war 
ensues,  that  it  was  inevitable  by  another  course  of  conduct. 
This  cannot  and  will  not  be  the  case,  if  measures  so  intemperate 
as  those  which  are  meditated  take  place.  The  inference  will  be, 
that  the  war  was  brought  on  by  the  design  of  some  and  the  rash- 
ness of  others.  This  inference  will  be  universal  in  the  Northern 
States ;  and  to  you,  sir,  I  need  not  urge  the  importance  of  those 
States  in  war. 

Want  of  unanimity  will  naturally  tend  to  render  the  opera- 
tions of  war  feeble  and  heavy,  to  destroy  both  effort  and  perse- 
verance. War,  undertaken  under  such  auspices,  can  scarcely 
end  in  any  thing  better  than  an  inglorious  and  disadvantageous 
peace.  What  worse  it  may  produce  is  beyond  the  reach  of  hu- 
man foresight. 

The  foregoing  observations  are  designed  to  convey  to  the 
mind  of  the  President  information  of  the  true  state  of  things  at 
the  present  juncture,  and  to  present  to  his  consideration  the 
general  reasons  which  have  occurred  to  me  against  the  course  of 
proceeding  which  appears  to  be  favored  by  a  majority  of  the 
House  of  Representatives. 

My  solicitude  for  the  public  interest,  according  to  the  view  I 
have  of  it,  and  my  real  respect  and  regard  for  him  to  whom  I 
address  myself,  lead  me  to  subjoin  some  reflections  of  a  more  deli- 
cate nature. 

The  crisis  is  such  a  one  as  involves  the  highest  responsibility 
on  the  part  of  every  one  who  may  have  to  act  a  part  in  it.     It  is 
D  34 


530  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  |>Et.  37. 

one  in  which  every  man  will  be  understood  to  be  bound  to  act 
according  to  his  judgment  without  concession  to  the  ideas  of 
others.  The  President,  who  has  by  the  Constitution  a  right  to 
object  to  laws,  which  he  deems  contrary  to  the  public  interest, 
will  be  considered  as  under  an  indispensable  obligation  to  exer- 
cise that  right  against  any  measure,  relating  to  so  vast  a  point  as 
that  of  the  peace  of  the  country,  which  shall  not  accord  with  his 
opinion.  The  consideration  of  its  having  been  adopted  by  both 
houses  of  Congress  and  of  respect  for  their  opinions,  will  have 
no  weight  in  such  a  case  as  a  reason  for  forbearing  to  exercise  the 
right  of  objection.  The  consequence  is,  that  the  not  objecting 
will  be  deemed  conclusive  evidence  of  approbation,  and  will  im- 
plicate the  President  in  all  the  consequences  of  the  measure. 

In  such  a  position  of  things,  it  is  therefore  of  the  utmost  im- 
portance to  him,  as  well  as  to  the  community,  that  he  should 
trace  out  in  his  own  mind  such  a  plan  as  he  thinks  it  would  be 
eligible  to  pursue,  and  should  endeavor,  by  proper  and  consti- 
tutional means,  to  give  the  deliberations  of  Congress  a  direction 
towards  that  plan. 

Else  he  runs  the  risk  of  being  reduced  to  the  dilemma  either 
of  assenting  to  measures,  which  he  may  not  approve,  with  a  full 
responsibility  for  consequences,  or  of  objecting  to  measures 
which  have  already  received  the  sanction  of  the  two  houses  of 
Congress,  with  the  responsibility  of  having  resisted  and  probably 
prevented  what  they  meditated.  Neither  of  these  alternatives  is 
a  desirable  one. 

It  seems  advisable,  then,  that  the  President  should  come  to  a 
conclusion  whether  the  plan  ought  to  be  preparation  for  war, 
and  negotiation  unincumbered  by  measures  which  forbid  the 
expectation  of  success,  or  immediate  measures  of  a  coercive 
tendency  to  be  accompanied  with  the  ceremony  of  a  demand  of 
redress.  For  I  believe  there  is  no  middle  plan  between  those 
two  courses. 

If  the  former  appears  to  him  to  be  the  true  policy  of  the 
country,  I  submit  it  as  my  conviction,  that  it  is  urgent  for  him  to 
demonstrate  that  opinion  as  a  preventive  of  wrong  measures  and 
future  embarrassment 


jEt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  531 

The  mode  of  doing  it  which  occurs  is  this :  to  nominate  a 
person  who  will  have  the  confidence  of  those  who  think  peace 
still  within  our  reach,  and  who  may  be  thought  qualified  for  the 
mission  as  envoy  extraordinary  to  Great  Britain ;  to  announce 
this  to  the  one  as  well  as  the  other  house  of  Congress,  with  an 
observation  that  it  is  done  with  an  intention  to  make  a  solemn 
appeal  to  the  justice  and  good  sense  of  the  British  government, 
to  avoid  if  possible  an  ulterior  rupture,  and  adjust  the  causes  of 
misunderstanding  between  the  two  countries,  and  with  an  earn- 
est recommendation  that  vigorous  and  effectual  measures  may  be 
adopted  to  he  prepared  for  war,  should  it  become  inevitable,  abstaining 
for  the  present  from  measures  which  may  be  contrary  to  the  spirit  of 
an  attempt  to  adjust  existing  differences  by  negotiation. 

Knowing  as  I  do,  sir,  that  I  am  among  the  persons  who  have 
been  in  your  contemplation  to  be  employed  in  the  capacity  I 
have  mentioned,  I  should  not  have  taken  the  present  step,  had 
I  not  been  resolved  at  the  same  time  to  advise  you  with  decision 
to  drop  me  from  the  consideration,  and  to  fix  upon  another 
character.  I  am  not  unapprised  of  what  has  been  the  bias  of 
your  opinion  on  the  subject.  I  am  well  aware  of  all  the  collat- 
eral obstacles  which  exist ;  and  I  assure  you  in  the  utmost  sin- 
cerity, that  I  shall  be  completely  and  entirely  satisfied  with  the 
election  of  another. 

I  beg  leave  to  add,  that  of  the  persons  whom  you  would 
deem  free  from  any  constitutional  objections,  Mr.  Jay  is  the  only 
man  in  whose  qualifications  for  success  there  would  be  thorough 
confidence,  and  him  whom  alone  it  would  be  advisable  to  send. 
I  think  the  business  would  have  the  best  chance  possible  in  his 
hands,  and  I  flatter  myself  that  his  mission  would  issue  in  a  man- 
ner that  would  produce  the  most  important  good  to  the  nation. 

Let  me  add,  sir,  that  those  whom  I  call  the  sober-minded  men 
of  the  country,  look  up  to  you  with  solicitude  upon  the  present 
occasion.  If  happily  you  should  be  the  instrument  of  still  rescu- 
ing the  country  from  the  dangers  and  calamities  of  war,  there  is 
no  part  of  your  life,  sir,  which  will  produce  to  you  more  real 
satisfaction  or  true  glory,  than  that  which  shall  be  distinguished 
by  this  very  important  service. 


532  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.31. 

In  any  event,  I  cannot  doubt,  sir,  that  you  will  do  justice  to 
the  motives  which  impel  me,  and  that  you  will  see  in  this  pro- 
ceeding another  proof  of  my  sincere  wishes  for  your  honor  and 
happiness,  and  anxiety  for  the  public  weal. 

With  the  truest  respect  and  attachment, 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  April  19,  1794. 

Sir  : 

I  have  received  a  letter  of  this  date  from  Mr.  Dandridge, 
transmitting  me  two  letters  to  you,  one  from  Governor  Mifflin, 
the  other  from  John  Wanton  ;  and  desiring  that  if  any  measure 
should  be  necessary  to  be  taken  relative  to  them,  they  should  be 
reported  to  you. 

With  regard  to  the  communication  from  Gov.  Mifflin,  the 
subject  of  it  will  be  put  in  a  train  of  examination,  and  the  result 
will  be  communicated. 

With  regard  to  that  from  Mr.  Wanton,  I  had  received  from 
Mr.  Thornton,  the  British  Yice-Consul,  the  inclosed  state  of  the 
case  of  the  schooner  Bayonne  or  Boyne,  which  as  you  will  perceive 
has  been  submitted  to  the  Attorney-General  for  his  opinion; 
which  is,  that  the  schooner  Boyne,  under  the  circumstances  stated 
in  that  paper,  "is  not  within  the  meaning  of  the  resolves  of  the 
legislature  laying  an  embargo,  and  that  she  ought  to  be  permit- 
ted to  proceed  on  her  voyage  to  New- York." 

It  was  my  intention  to  have  sent  this  morning  to  the  Secre- 
tary of  War,  in  order  that  what  was  proper  further  to  be  done 
might  be  determined,  and  correspondent  instructions  given  to 
the  military  officer  and  to  the  collector. 

I  believe  the  opinion  of  the  Attorney-General  is  right,  though 
it  puts  the  effect  of  the  embargo  in  some  jeopardy  as  to  vessels 
arriving  from  abroad. 


.Et.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  533 

Perhaps  the  most  advisable  course  is,  to  permit  the  present 
vessel,  concerning  which  there  has  been  some  irregularity,  to 
proceed  to  the  port  of  her  destination  without  any  condition,  and 
to  consider  and  establish  some  rule  of  proceeding,  with  proper 
guards,  for  future  cases. 

I  retain  a  copy  of  Mr.  "Wanton's  letter,  to  be  sent  to  the  Col- 
lector of  Newport,  as  it  contains  an  impeachment  of  his  conduct 
that  calls  for  inquiry. 

With  the  highest  respect,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO   WASHINGTON. 

April  21,  1794. 


Sir: 


I  lately  communicated  to  you  a  letter  from  our  Commission- 
ers at  Amsterdam,  announcing  the  undertaking  of  a  loan  on  ac- 
count of  the  United  States  for  three  millions  of  florins.  I  sub- 
mit the  following  application  of  that  loan  as  the  one  which 
appears  to  me  most  conducive  to  the  good  of  the  public  service : 

One  million  of  florins  to  be  apportioned  to  the  payment  of 
an  instalment  of  an  equal  sum  of  the  Dutch  debt,  payable  on 
the  first  of  June  next. 

The  residue  of  the  loan  to  be  transferred  here,  for  the  pur- 
pose either  of  payments  to  France  or  purchases  of  the  debt,  as 
circumstances  shall  dictate. 

I  had  begun  remittances,  and  made  a  provisional  arrangement 
for  the  purchase  of  bills  of  the  Bank  of  the  United  States, 
towards  payment  of  the  June  instalment.  But  the  loan  super- 
sedes the  necessity  of  the  former,  and  the  bills  remitted  will 
serve  to  pay  interest  and  premium  of  the  old  loans  clue  and  be- 
coming due. 

With  the  highest  respect,  &c. 


534  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  37. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Philadelphia,  April  22,  1794. 

Sir: 

Upon  examining  my  letter  to  you  of  the  27th  Jane,  1793, 
and  my  two  powers  of  the  8th  of  August,  1793,  the  one  for 
making  a  loan  of  one  million  of  florins,  and  the  other  for  mak- 
ing a  loan  of  1,515,98  dollars  and  11  cents,  I  wish  to  have  some 
explanation  upon  the  subject  of  your  letter  of  yesterday's  date. 
The  questions  which  arise  are  these :  Whether  the  million  of 
florins,  to  be  borrowed  for  the  instalment  payable  to  Holland  in 
June  next,  be  not  already  appropriated  for  that  purpose ;  and 
whether  the  appropriation  now  proposed  of  the  three  millions  of 
florins  will  not  in  some  measure  be  contrary  to  the  appropriation 
contained  in  my  power  of  the  8th  of  August,  1793  ?  For  it  ap- 
pears to  me  that  I  have  directed  the  money  to  be  borrowed  under 
that  power  to  be  applied  to  the  purchases  of  the  public  debt. 

Geo.  Washington. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  April  23d,  1794. 

Sir: 

When  I  wrote  my  letter  to  you  of  the  21st  instant,  I  had  en- 
tirely forgotten  the  existence  of  your  two  instructions  of  the  8th 
of  August,  owing,  probably,  to  the  effect  upon  my  memory  of 
my  sickness,  which  soon  after  ensued.  I  only  recollected  that 
the  loan  had  been  authorized  by  me,  pursuant  to  your  special 
direction,  and  I  conceived  that  the  subject  of  its  disposition  was 
wholly  open.  I  regret  this  circumstance,  though  no  incon- 
venience could  have  ensued. 

For  I  am  of  opinion,  that  until  the  actual  investment  of  the 
moneys  in  purchases,  they  remain  liable  to  any  disposition  which 
you  may  think  proper,  with  reference  to  either  of  the  two  acts 


iET.  37..]  CABINET    PAPERS.  535 

of  the  4th  and  12th  of  August,  1790.  The  loan  has  been  made 
without  particular  reference  to  either  of  them,  agreeably  to  the 
intimation  in  your  letter  of  the  27th  of  July,  namely,  that  it  was 
not  your  purpose,  by  separate  instructions,  to  prevent  the  loans 
from  being  carried  on  without  distinction  in  Holland.  Accord- 
ingly, no  distinction  has  been  made And,  as  the  contract 

for  the  loan  will  not  be  specially  bottomed  upon  either  of  the 
acts,  I  conceive  the  instructions  which  have  been  given  may  be 
varied  so  as  to  accommodate  the  application  to  the  purposes  of 
both  or  either. 

It  is  not,  however,  essential  that  any  alteration  should  now 
be  made.  If  the  whole  sum  is  to  be  drawn  for  here — as  I  should 
have  to  remit  from  hence  what  remains  to  complete  the  million 
of  florins  towards  the  payment  of  the  next  June  instalment — I 
can  fulfil  this  object,  with  convenience  to  the  public  service,  by 
drawing  upon  the  fund  created  by  the  last  loan,  ....  which  will 
leave  in  the  Treasury  here  an  equivalent  sum  applicable  to  pur- 
chases. This  will  be  the  same  thing,  in  principle  (without  the 
inconvenience  of  a  double  operation),  as  to  draw  bills  upon  that 
fund,  to  be  sold  here,  in  order  to  place  the  proceeds  in  the 
Treasury,  and  to  purchase  other  bills  to  remit  to  Holland,  in 
order  to  place  there  a  fund  for  the  payment  of  the  June  in- 
stalment. 

But  if  it  is  your  intention,  at  all  events,  to  attach  the  proceeds 
of  this  loan  to  purchases,  and  to  exclude,  absolutely,  the  future 
application  of  any  part  of  it  towards  payments  to  France,  or 
otherwise,  on  account  of  the  foreign  debt,  I  will  thank  you  to 
signify  your  pleasure  accordingly,  and  then  the  accounts  of  the 
Treasury  will  be  so  regulated  as  to  fix  that  course  of  proceeding 
irrevocably. 

But  I  think  embarrassments  may  be  found  to  attend  this 
course,  which  prevent  me  from  recommending  it. 

With  the  highest  respect,  &c. 


536  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  |>Et.  37. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

April  23d,  1794. 
Mr.  Hamilton  presents  his  respects  to  the  President.  ...  In 
compliance  with  the  desire  expressed  by  him,  Mr.  H.  has  made 
a  memorandum  of  certain  points  for  consideration,  in  preparing 
instructions  for  Mr.  Jay,  which  are  herewith  sent. 

Points   to   he  considered  in   the  Instructions   to   Mr.   Jay,    Envoy 

Extraordinary  to   Great  Britain. 

Indemnification  for  the  depredations  upon  our  commerce, 
according  to  a  rule  to  be  settled. 

The  desirable  rule  is,  that  which  theoretical  writers  lay 
down  as  the  rule  of  the  law  of  nations ;  to  wit,  that  none  but 
articles  by  general  usage  deemed  contraband,  shall  be  liable  to 
confiscation,  and  that  the  carrying  of  such  articles  shall  not  in- 
fect other  parts  of  a  cargo,  nor  even  a  vessel  carrying  them,  where 
there  are  no  appearances  of  a  design  to  conceal. 

Our  treaties  contain  a  good  guide  as  to  contraband  articles, 
which  fall  under  general  denomination  of  instrumenta  belli — in- 
struments of  war. 

But  if  it  should  be  found  impracticable  to  establish  this  rule, 
the  following  qualifications  of  it  occur  to  consideration  : 

1st.  Whether  provisions  (defining  what  shall  be  such)  may 
not  be  excepted,  so  far  as  to  render  them  liable,  when  going  to 
an  enemy's  port  not  blockaded,  to  be  carried  into  the  port  of  the 
other  enemy,  and  converted  to  his  use,  paying  the  fall  value. 
A  good  rule  for  estimating  this  value,  would  be  the  costs  and 
charges  at  the  place  of  exportation,  with  the  addition  of  per 
cent. 

2d.  Whether  colony  produce,  going  directly  from  the  colony 
to  the  mother  country,  may  not  be  added  to  the  list  of  contra- 
band articles? 

Or,  in  the  last  resort,  whether  the  rule  in  this  particular,  re- 
sulting from  the  instructions  of  the  8th  of  January  last,  may  not 


^1t.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  537 

be  admitted ;  to  wit,  that  colony  produce,  going  directly  from 
the  colony  to  any  port  in  Europe,  may  be  confiscated. 

This  is  a  principle  which,  it  is  understood,  has  been  long  ad- 
hered to  by  Great  Britain,  and  finds  a  sanction  in  precedents 
under  the  ancient  government  of  France  and  other  maritime 
powers. 

The  indemnification  for  prizes  made  by  proscribed  vessels,  of 
which  an  expectation  has  been  given  by  the  President,  may  be 
confirmed  by  convention. 

II.  Arrangement  with  regard  to  the  future  : 

The  basis  to  be  the  rule  already  quoted  of  the  general  law  of 
nations. 

But  it  is  probable  that  the  same  exceptions  which  may  be  in- 
sisted upon  as  to  indemnification  for  the  past,  will  also  be  insist- 
ed upon  as  to  the  future. 

The  idea  of  a  place  blockaded  or  besieged  by  construction, 
which  is  not  actually  so,  ought  to  be  excluded  in  either  case. 

A  stipulation  against  the  sale  of  prizes  in  our  ports,  will 
probably  be  insisted  upon ;  and  it  is  just  that  it  should  be 
made. 

A  stipulation,  that  in  case  of  war  with  any  Indian  tribe,  the 
other  party  shall  furnish  no  supplies  whatever  to  that  tribe,  ex- 
cept such,  and  in  such  quantity  only,  as  it  was  accustomed  to 
furnish  previous  to  the  war ;  and  the  party  at  war  to  have  a 
right  to  keep  an  agent  or  agents  at  the  posts  or  settlements  of 
the  other  party  nearest  to  such  Indians,  to  ascertain  the  faithful 
execution  of  this  stipulation. 

Grounds  of  adjustment  with  regard  to  the  late  treat}-  of  peace. 

On  the  part  of  the  British, 

1st.  Indemnification  for  our  negroes  carried  away. 
2d.    Surrender  of  our  posts. 

On  the  part  of  the  United  States. 

1st.  Indemnification  for  the  obstructions  to  the  recovery  of 
debts  not  exceeding  sterling. 


538  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  37. 

It  may  be  desired,  and  would  it  not  be  our  interest  to  agree ; 
that  neither  party  shall  in  time  of  peace  keep  up  any  armed  force 
upon  the  lakes,  nor  any  fortified  places  nearer  than  miles 

to  the  lakes,  except  small  posts  for  small  guards  (the  number  to 
be  defined)  stationed  for  the  security  of  trading  houses  ? 

Would  it  not  be  also  our  interest  to  agree  to  an  arrangement 
by  which  each  party  shall  permit  to  the  other,  under  due  pre- 
caution and  regulations,  a  free  trade  with  the  Indian  tribes  in- 
habiting within  the  limits  of  the  other  ? 

Treaty  of  Commerce. 

The  statu  quo  may  be  taken  with  the  following  exceptions : 
A  privilege  to  carry  to  the  West  India  Islands  in  our  ves- 
sels of  certain  burthens,  (say  not  less  than  sixty  tons,  nor  more 
than  eighty  tons,)  all  such  articles  as  may  now  be  carried  thither 
from  the  United  States  in  British  bottoms ;  and  to  bring  from 
thence  directly  to  the  United  States  all  such  articles  as  may  now 
be  brought  from  thence  to  the  United  States  in  British  bottoms. 
The  privilege  of  carrying  to  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  manufac- 
tures of  the  United  States  similar  to  those  which  now  are  or 
hereafter  may  be  allowed  to  be  carried  thither  by  other  nations 
who  stand  on  the  footing  of  the  most  favored  nation,  and  upon 
terms  of  admission  equally  good. 

As  equivalents. 

The  extra  tonnage  and  duties  on  British  vessels  and  goods 
imported  in  British  vessels  to  be  done  away,  and,  if  desired,  a 
stipulation  to  be  entered  into,  that  the  commodities  and  manu- 
factures of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland  may  be  imported  into  the 
United  States  upon  terms  equally  good  with  the  like  commo- 
dities and  manufactures  of  any  other  nation  ;  and  that  the  duties 
upon  such  of  them  as  now  pay  ten  per  cent,  ad  valorem  and  up- 
wards, shall  not  be  increased  ;  and  that  the  duties  upon  such  of 
them  as  now  pay  under  ten  per  cent,  ad  valorem,  shall  not  be 
increased  beyond  ten  per  cent. 

A  treaty  on  these  terms  to  be  made  for  any  term  not  exceed- 
ing years. 


^t.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  539 

But  if  such  a  treaty  cannot  be  made,  it  deserves  considera- 
tion, whether  a  treaty  on  the  basis  of  the  statu  quo  for  a  short 
term  (say  five  years)  may  not  be  advisable,  as  an  expedient  for 
preserving  peace  between  the  two  countries. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

April  24,  1794. 

Sir: 

It  appears  to  me  that  my  instructions  of  the  8th  of  August, 
1793,  have  fixed  the  appropriation  of  the  money  to  the  sinking 
fund ;  and  I  have  considerable  difficulty  in  being  convinced  of 
my  power  to  change  it  at  this  time.  However,  as  I  wish  to  see 
the  whole  subject  together,  it  may  be  well  for  you  to  state  to  me 
what  the  embarrassments  are  which  you  suppose  will  arise  from 
confining  the  money  borrowed  to  the  purchase  of  the  public 
debt,  which  I  own  I  am  very  desirous  of  seeing  effected  as  fast  as 
it  can  be  done  advantageously  for  the  public. 

George  Washington. 


CABINET  OPINION. 

April  24,  1794. 

The  Secretary  of  State  submits  to  the  Secretaries  of  the  Trea- 
sury and  War,  whether  the  inclosed  letters  from  Mr.  Pinckney, 
or  either  of  them,  shall  be  sent  to  Congress. 

E.  R.  is  of  opinion,  that  the  letter  of  28th  of  January,  and  not 
the  other,  ought  to  be  sent. 

I  am  of  opinion  that  it  is  not  advisable  to  send  either.  That 
of  the  28th  of  January,  contains  no  new  substantive  matter  ma- 


540  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  31. 

terial  to  the  information  of  Congress,  and  mere  stimulants  do  not 

seem  to  be  necessary. 

A.  Hamilton. 

I  do  not  conceive  the  propriety  of  transmitting  these  letters 

to  Congress. 

H.  Knox. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  April  25,  1794. 

I  beg  leave,  by  way  of  explanation,  to  submit  the  grounds  of 
my  opinion,  that  the  President  may  vary  his  instructions  of  the 
8th  of  August  last,  in  reference  to  the  application  of  the  last 
loan  obtained  in  Holland. 

A  summary  of  the  preceding  transactions  will  serve  to  throw 
light  upon  the  subject. 

The  President,  by  his  commission  of  the  28th  of  August, 
1790,  gave  full  power  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  to  make 
the  whole  of  the  two  loans  contemplated  by  the  acts  of  the  4th 
and  the  12  th  of  August. 

When  in  the  beginning  of  June  last,  certain  considerations 
rendered  it,  in  my  judgment,  expedient  to  obtain  a  further  loan ; 
I  concluded  to  address  myself  to  the  President,  not  for  want  of 
power  to  proceed  in  the  business ;  but  to  obtain  the  sanction  of 
his  opinions  and  instructions,  as  to  the  eligibility  of  the  measure. 
This  will  appear  from  my  letter  of  the  third  of  that  month. 

After  some  explanatory  communications,  I  received  from  the 
President  his  letter  of  the  27th  of  July,  informing  me  of  the 
shape  the  business  had  taken  in  his  mind. 

On  the  basis  of  that  letter,  I  prepared  the  instructions  of  the 
8th  of  August,  which  I  considered  merely  as  directions  to  me, 
from  the  President,  in  the  execution  of  the  general  power  of  the 
28th  of  August,  1790,  to  be  understood  in  connection  with  the 
letter  of  the  27th  of  July. 


Mt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  541 

The  proposition  in  my  report  of  the  15th  of  June  was,  that 
the  proposed  loan  should  be  made  upon  the  authority  of  both 
acts,  and  the  letter  of  the  President  just  mentioned,  precisely 
declares  he  did  not  intend  by  separate  instructions,  to  prevent 
the  loans  from  being  carried  on  without  distinction  in  Holland. 

Accordingly,  I  sent  no  new  powers  for  making  a  further 
loan,  but  merely  an  additional  instruction  to  make  a  loan  of  three 
millions  of  florins,  on  the  basis  of  the  former  powers.  This 
additional  instruction,  too,  made  no  special  reference  to  either  act, 
but  left  the  matter  to  proceed  as  before  without  distinction. 

The  consequence  will  be  that  the  loan,  as  in  all  preceding  cases, 
will  be  founded  upon  both  the  acts.  I  send  for  your  inspection 
all  the  contracts  heretofore  made,  as  the  evidence  of  what  will  be 
the  form  of  the  one  not  yet  forwarded ;  all  of  which  expressly 
and  indiscriminately  refer  to  both  the  acts. 

The  inference  is,  that  according  to  the  contract  itself,  (the 
formal  obligatory  act,)  the  loan  will  be  placed  upon  the  joint 
foundation  of  the  two  acts,  equally  applicable,  therefore,  to  the 
purpose  of  either. 

This  being  the  case,  it  is  in  my  mind  a  clear  proposition,  that 
the  money  remains  in  that  state  liable  to  be  applied  according  to 
either  or  both  the  acts,  till  one  of  two  things  happens  ;  an  actual 
investment,  or  the  being  carried  in  the  books  of  the  Treasury 
specifically  to  the  amount  of  the  particular  appropriation. 

It  appears  to  me  that  there  are  but  two  circumstances  which 
can  attach  irrevocably  a  similar  fund  to  a  particular  destination 
— either  its  being  so  attached  in  its  original  creation  by  the  for- 
mal obligatory  act,  (to  wit,  the  creation  of  the  loan,)  or  its  having 
received  in  the  Treasury  its  ultimate  form,  by  being  carried  to 
the  account  of  the  particular  appropriation.  This  last,  when  the 
fund  in  its  creation  is  liable  to  different  destinations,  is,  as  I  sup- 
pose, the  only  thing  which  consummates  and  fixes  the  precise 
destination.  It  is  the  record,  so  to  speak,  of  the  sentence  or 
direction  of  the  law,  ascertaining  its  application. 

If  this  position  be  as  solid  as  I  believe  it  to  be,  it  will  follow 
that  all  collateral  instructions  of  the  President  intervening  be- 
tween his  original  power  to  make  the  loan,  and  the  final  applica- 


542  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.31. 

tion  of  the  loan,  are  mere  directions  to  the  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury,  binding  on  him  until  they  are  revoked,  but  revocable 
at  pleasure  by  the  President,  until  they  are  definitely  acted  upon 
at  the  Treasury. 

This  is  my  view  of  the  subject,  for  troubling  the  President 
with  which,  I  have  no  other  motive  than  merely  to  explain  the 
ground  of  an  important  opinion. 

I  proceed  now  to  execute  the  order  of  the  President,  contained 
in  his  letter  of  yesterday. 

The  embarrassments,  which  I  suppose  may  possibly  arise 
from  fixing  at  this  time  the  destination  of  the  fund,  are  con- 
nected with  the  following  considerations : 

The  laws,  except  by  the  means  of  loans,  make  no  provision 
for  the  payment  of  any  part  of  the  principal  of  the  foreign  debt. 
Instalments  of  the  principal  of  the  Dutch  debt,  are  falling  due 
yearly ;  the  same  is  the  case  of  the  debt  to  France,  deferring  the 
computed  anticipations,  as  has  been  heretofore  done.  Perhaps  it 
may  become  the  policy  of  the  country,  in  a  short  time,  to  accele- 
rate in  the  latter  case. 

The  state  of  European  affairs  forbids  a  reliance  on  further 
loans  there.  The  actual  situation  of  the  United  States  (and  a 
fortiori,  its  possible  one),  is  likely  to  call  for  all  the  aid  of  domes- 
tic loans,  which  is  obtainable  for  domestic  purposes.  This 
resource,  therefore,  could  not  be  depended  upon  as  a  substitute 
for  foreign  loans  for  foreign  objects  ;  still  less,  and  for  the  same 
among  other  reasons,  could  additional  taxation  be  counted  upon. 

Our  credit,  therefore,  and  in  certain  events  our  security  in  a 
degree,  may  depend  on  retaining  a  part  of  the  resource  in  ques- 
tion in  a  situation  to  come  in  aid  of  both.  Our  credit  entirely, 
and  our  security  in  a  very  small  degree,  are  of  far  greater  conse- 
quence than  the  savings  to  be  made  by  the  investment  of  1,2 00,- 
000  dollars  in  purchases. 

Past  experience  admonishes  to  caution.  The  last  loan  of  a 
million  of  florins,  and  the  present  one  of  three  millions,  are  in 
some  sort  accidents.  Antecedent  intelligence  has  in  each  case 
forbidden  the  expectation  of  either,  as  the  President  will  see 
from  the  letters  herewith  transmitted.     Had  these  not  happened, 


^t.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  543 

and  had  the  moneys  originally  drawn  to  this  country  for  pur- 
chases been  hastily  so  invested,  our  credit  would  in  all  probability 
have  been  lost ;  and  things  which  we  believe  it  of  importance  to 
have  been  done,  would  have  been  impracticable. 

A  considerable  defalcation  of  revenue  this  year  seems  proba- 
ble. I  feel,  in  a  manner  not  less  interesting  to  my  own  reputa- 
tion than  to  the  public  interest,  the  advantage  of  extensive 
purchases  at  the  existing  juncture — and  though  I  think  the 
opportunity  will  not  escape,  it  enters  into  the  plan  which  I  should 
approve,  to  proceed  gradually  and  circumspectly  in  availing 
ourselves  of  the  advantage.  But  I  do  not  incline  either  wholly 
to  tie  up  the  funds  at  this  time,  or  to  precipitate  its  application  to 
that  single  object.  I  think  the  matter  had  better  be  left  open,  to 
be  governed  by  circumstances  as  things  shall  unfold. 

It  appears  to  me  better,  at  the  hazard  of  some  criticism,  to 
waive  or  defer  an  advantage  inferior  in  magnitude,  rather  than 
incur  a  probable  risk  of  disadvantage  of  much  greater  magnitude. 
It  appears  by  the  letter  from  the  Commissioners  announcing 
the  loan  already  communicated  to  the  President,  that  the  receipts 
on  account  of  it  may  be  considerably  protracted.  This  is  a  cir- 
cumstance of  some  weight  in  the  decision. 

I  submit  these  considerations  with  all  deference  to  the  deci- 
sion of  the  President,  and  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


WASHINGTON  TO   nAMILTOX. 

Philadelphia,  April  27,  1794. 

Sir: 

I  cannot,  under  all  the  circumstances  of  the  case,  satisfy  my- 
self that  I  am  at  liberty  to  go  contrary  to  my  last  instructions; 
and  that  I  have  authority  to  direct  the  money,  which  1  have  ex- 
pressly directed  to  be  applied  to  the  purchase  of  the  public  debt, 
to  be  applied  to  any  other  object. 

Still,  however,  1  am  willing  that  the  embarrassments,  which 


544  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.31. 

you  consider  as  probable,  shall  be  communicated  to  Congress ; 
and  I  have  no  objection  to  recommend  to  them  to  order  the 
money  to  be  reserved  for  the  exigencies  which  you  point  out. 


HAMILTON  TO   RANDOLPH. 

April  27th;  1794. 

Dear  Sir: 

I  did  not  receive  the  draft  of  your  reply  to  Mr.  Hammond, 
on  the  subject  of  the  instructions  of  the  8th  of  June,  till  bed- 
time, last  night,  nor  could  I,  without  a  much  more  considerable 
delay  than  seems  to  comport  with  your  plan,  pretend  to  enter 
into  an  accurate,  sifting  scrutiny  of  this  paper. 

I  must  therefore  confine  myself  to  a  very  few  remarks. 

If  my  memory  serves  me  right, 

I.  Your  position  that  the  United  States  alone  suffer  from  the 
operation  of  the  above  mentioned  instructions,  is  not  accurate. 
I  take  it,  that  provisions  on  board  all  neutral  vessels  going  to 
any  port  of  France,  are  liable  to  the  same  treatment,  except  in 
the  single  case  of  their  going  to  a  place  blockaded  or  besieged, 
when  the  rigor  of  the  law  of  nations  is  enforced  against  us  by  a 
confiscation  in  the  first  instance ;  whereas,  in  respect  to  Sweden 
and  Denmark,  it  is  mitigated  by  the  circumstance  of  admonition 
first,  and  confiscation  afterwards.  But  even  in  this  particular, 
the  other  neutral  powers  (Sweden  and  Denmark  excepted)  were 
left  in  the  same  predicament  with  us,  I  do  not  understand, 
either,  that  in  fact  any  ports  of  France  have  been  deemed  block- 
aded, so  as  to  produce  confiscation,  except  those  actually  so.  But 
not  having  the  instructions  before  me,  I  cannot  speak  with  pre- 
cision. 

IT.  You  seem  to  take  the  position  too  strictly — that  none  but 
such  articles  as  are  peculiar  to  war  are  deemed  contraband. 
Other  articles  besides  these  are  usually  deemed  contraband,  (as 


.Et.37.]  cabinet   papers.  545 

naval  stores,  which  are  the  general  instrument  of  commerce  in 
time  of  peace,  as  well  as  a  mean  of  war.) 

III.  You  appeal  strongly  to  the  conduct  of  Great  Britain  for 
a  century  past,  as  to  the  question  of  provisions  being  treated  as 
contraband,  or  otherwise  interdicted  from  being  carried  to  an 
enemy's  country.  I  fear  examples  may  be  cited  upon  you  which 
will  include  the  point,  and  more.  Is  there  not  a  treaty  between 
Holland  and  England  within  a  century,  which  goes  much  fur- 
ther? And  you  may  be,  perhaps,  pressed  by  examples  from 
other  countries.  I  remember  a  declaration  from  France  to  the 
States  General,  (in  the  time  of  Louis  XIV.,  as  I  believe,)  which 
imposes  much  more  extensive  restrictions. 

IV.  There  appears  to  me  too  much  tartness,  in  various  parts 
of  the  reply.  Energy,  without  asperity,  seems  best  to  comport 
with  the  dignity  of  national  language.  The  force  ought  to  be 
more  in  the  idea,  than  in  the  expression  or  manner.  The  sub- 
ject of  the  paper  is  the  instructions  of  the  8th  of  June,  not  those 
of  the  6th  of  November.  I  suspect  from  some  latter  lights, 
which  I  have  received,  that  more  of  justification  for  the  former 
can  be  found  in  the  practice  of  nations  than  I  was  originally 
aware  of:  and  the  expression  of  our  sensibility,  and  the  energy 
of  our  resistance  ought  to  be  proportioned  to  the  nature  of  the 
case. 

On  the  whole,  I  submit  whether  it  be  not  advisable  to  give 
no  other  reply  than  a  general  one,  declaring  that  the  doctrines 
advanced  in  support  of  the  instructions  of  the  8th  of  June,  do 
not  appear  to  us  well-founded  ;  but  that  being  among  the  objects 
committed  to  Mr.  Jay's  negotiation,  a  particular  reply  is  forborne. 
We  are  still  in  the  path  of  negotiation ;  let  us  not  plant  it  with 
thorns. 

D  35 


546  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  37. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON". 

Treasury  Department,  April  28,  1794. 

Sir: 

I  should  not  advise  a  present  reference  to  the  legislature  on 
the  subject  of  the  application  of  the  loan;  as  under  the  circum- 
stances of  that  body  at  this  moment,  much  debate  would  pro- 
bably ensue,  and  perhaps  no  decision. 

I  am  the  less  induced  to  advise  this  step ;  as  the  expedient 
itself  will  be  hereafter  practicable,  if  it  shall  appear  to  be  neces- 
sary. It  will  be  some  time  before  the  proceeds  of  the  loan  will 
be  realized  in  the  Treasury.  "When  there,  though  the  appropri- 
ation will  be  fixed  to  the  sinking  fund,  the  actual  disbursement 
of  the  moneys  may  be  accelerated  or  retarded,  as  may  be  judged 
advisable,  according  to  the  development  of  circumstances. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  April  30,  1794. 

Sir: 

Inclosed  I  have  the  honor  to  send  you  the  translation  of  a 
letter  from  Mr.  Fauchet,  of  the  21st  instant. 

The  arrangements  of  the  Treasury  have  been  taken  so  as  to 
correspond  with  the  epochs  of  promised  payment ;  but  I  enter- 
tain no  doubt  that  I  can  facilitate  an  arrangement  between  the 
Bank  and  Mr.  Fauchet,  which  will  accomplish  in  substance  the 
object  of  his  letter.  I  did  not  think  it  proper,  however,  to  take 
any  definitive  step  without  previously  placing  the  subject  under 
the  eye  of  the  President. 

The  minister  is  desirous  of  securing  an  additional  sum  for 
satisfying  two  drafts  of  his  predecessor,  which  he  specifies.  It 
will  be  within  the  compass  of  our  means  to  perform  this  also ; 
but  it  is  not  within  the  limit  heretofore  prescribed,  and  it  in- 


Mt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  547 

eludes,  besides,  considerations  which  are  proper  only  for  the  de- 
cision of  the  President. 

With  perfect  respect,  &c. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Philadelphia,  2d  May,  1794. 

Sir: 

I  did  not  think  it  worth  while  to  give  you  the  trouble  of 
writing  a  formal  answer,  and  therefore  I  desired  the  Secretary  of 
State,  who  was  with  me  on  business,  if  he  had  an  opportunity, 
to  ask  an  explanation  of  the  last  clause  in  your  letter  of  the  30th 
ultimo.  He  has  just  informed  me,  that  you  state  that  there  is 
money  in  your  hands  applicable  to  the  French  debt ;  and,  upon 
the  whole,  I  do  not  see  any  objection  to  your  making  the  pay- 
ments to  Mr.  Fauchet,  which  you  mention  in  that  letter. 

I  return  the  passports  signed ;  and  I  am  so  fully  impressed 
with  the  necessity  of  discontinuing  the  issuing  of  them  without 
some  restrictions,  that  I  request  you  will  be  careful  in  charging 
the  collectors  not  to  suffer  any  of  the  vessels,  for  which  they  are 
given,  to  depart  without  complying  with  the  conditions  expressed 
in  your  letter  of  this  date. 

I  am,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  May  3d,  1794. 

Sir: 

Inclosed  are  copies  of  a  letter  of  mine  of  the  25th  ultimo,  to 
the  Attorney-General,  and  of  his  answer. 

Concurring  entirely  in  opinion  with  that  officer,  I  am  led  to 


548  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  37. 

bring  the  subject  under  the  eye  of  the  President  only  from  the 
reflection  that  a  foreign  government  is  concerned  in  the  question ; 
and  unless  I  receive  a  direction  to  the  contrarv,  I  shall  act  in 
conformity  with  that  opinion.  I  am  urged  for  a  reply  in  a  par- 
ticular case,  which  will  go  to  Europe  by  the  vessel  which  shall 
carry  Mr.  Jay. 

With  perfect  respect,  &e. 


WASHINGTON"  TO   HAMILTON. 

(Private.) 

May  6th,  1794. 

Dear  Sir: 

In  answering  your  note  of  yesterday,  respecting  the  request  of 
Mr.  Talleyrand  de  Perigord,  I  do  not  hesitate  to  declare,  that  I  find 
it  difficult  to  hit  upon  a  line  of  conduct  towards  characters  under 
the  description  that  gentleman  is  emigrants 

that  is  satisfactory  to  my  own  mind,  or,  more  properly,  that  is 
free  from  exception,  by  avoiding  what  might  seem  incivility  on 
one  hand,  or  unpleasant  political  consequences  on  the  other. 

I  can  perceive  very  clearly  that  the  consequence  of  receiving 
these  characters  into  the  public  rooms  will  be,  driving  the  French 
Minister  from  them.  His  visits  are  much  less  frequent  than  they 
were,  and  an  occurrence  on  Tuesday  last  (which  shall  be  men- 
tioned when  you  call  here)  has  left  no  doubt  as  to  the  cause. 

A  particular  introduction  of  these  characters  (out  of  the 
usual  course)  would,  I  presume,  be  more  noticed  than  the  recep- 
tion of  them  in  public.  It  has  become  expedient,  therefore,  in 
my  opinion,  that  principles  should  be  adopted  in  these  cases  (not 
only  for  the  conduct  of  the  President,  but  for  the  executive 
officers  also)  by  which  evils  may  be  avoided  and  uniformity 
observed. 

What  these  had  best  be  deserves  consideration. 

My  wish  is,  and  it  is  not  less  my  duty  as  an  officer  of  the 


jEt.37.]  cabinet   papers.  549 

republic,  to  avoid  offence  to  powers  with  whom  we  are  in  friend- 
ship, by  conduct  towards  their  proscribed  citizens  which  would 
be  disagreeable  to  them ;  whilst,  at  the  same  time,  these  emi- 
grants, if  people  of  good  character,  ought  to  understand  that  they 
will  be  protected  in  their  persons  and  property,  and  will  be  en- 
titled to  all  the  benefits  of  our  laws :  for  the  rest,  they  must  de- 
pend upon  their  own  behavior  and  the  civilities  of  the  citizens  at 
large,  who  are  less  restrained  by  political  considerations  than  the 
officers  of  government  must  be. 

Yours  always, 

Geo.  Washington. 


CABINET  OPINION. 

Philadelphia,  May  6.  1794 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  and  War  Departments  being 
of  opinion  that  it  is  constitutional  and  expedient  to  empower  Mr. 
Jay  to  conclude  a  treaty  of  commerce  with  Great  Britain,  the 
powers  are  drawn  conformably  with  these  ideas. 

But  as  they  entertain  sentiments  different  from  mine,  I  have 
committed  them  to  paper.  Permit  me  to  assign  a  few  of  the 
most  operative  reasons  in  my  mind. 

1.  To  permit  such  a  treaty  to  be  signed  by  Mr.  Jay  and  trans- 
mitted for  ratification,  is  to  abridge  the  power  of  the  Senate  to 
judge  of  its  merits.  For  according  to  the  rules  of  good  faith,  a 
treaty,  which  is  stipulated  to  be  ratified,  ought  to  be  so,  unless 
the  conduct  of  the  minister  be  disavowed  and  punished.  2.  If 
he  be  permitted  to  sign  a  treaty  of  commerce,  no  form  of  expres- 
sion can  be  devised  to  be  inserted  in  it  which  will  not  be  tanta- 
mount to  a  stipulation  to  ratify,  or  leave  the  matter  as  much  at 
large,  as  if  he  had  no  such  power.  3.  Though,  I  believe,  that 
the  people  of  the  United  States  desire  a  proper  treaty  of  com- 
merce with  Great  Britain,  and  we  could  enumerate  so  many  arti- 
cles as  to  insure  them  approbation,  yet  I  am  persuaded  that  no 


550  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  37. 

man  can  undertake  to  say,  that  they  would  be  contented  with  one 
or  two  articles  only,  as  is  proposed  by  the  gentlemen. 

Edmund  Kandolph. 


PART  OF  INSTRUCTIONS  TO  JOHN  JAY. 

Draft  by  Hamilton. 

1794. 

This  enumeration  presents  generally  the  object  which  it  is 
desirable  to  comprise  in  a  commercial  treaty ;  not  that  it  is 
expected  that  one  can  be  effected  with  so  great  a  latitude  of 
advantages.  If  to  the  actual  footing  of  our  commerce  and 
navigation  with  British  European  dominions  could  be  added 
the  privilege  of  carrying  directly  from  the  United  States  to  the 
British  West  India  Islands,  in  our  own  bottoms  generally,  or  of 
certain  defined  burthens,  the  articles  which,  by  the  act  of  the 
28th  of  George  3d,  chapter  6th,  may  be  carried  thither  in  British 
bottoms,  and  of  bringing  from  those  islands  directly  to  the  United 
States  in  our  bottoms  of  the  like  description,  the  articles  which 
by  the  same  act  may  be  brought  from  those  islands  to  the  United 
States  in  British  bottoms ;  this  would  afford  an  acceptable  basis 
of  a  treaty  for  a  term  not  exceeding  fifteen  years ;  and  it  would 
be  advisable  to  conclude  a  treaty  upon  that  basis. 

But  if  a  treaty  cannot  be  formed  upon  a  basis  as  liberal  as 
this,  it  is  conceived  that  it  would  not  be  expedient  to  do  any 
thing  more  than  to  digest  the  articles  of  such  a  one  as  the  British 
government  shall  appear  willing  to  accede  to :  referring  it  here 
for  consideration  and  further  instruction  previous  to  a  formal 
conclusion. 

There  are  other  points  which  it  would  be  interesting  to  com- 
prehend in  a  treaty,  and  which  it  is  presumed  would  not  be  at- 
tended with  difficulty.  Among  these  is  the  admission  of  our 
commodities  and  manufactures  generally,  into  the  European  do- 


jEt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  551 

minions  of  Great  Britain,  upon   a   footing   equally  good  with 
those  of  other  foreign  countries.* 

At  present  only  certain  enumerated  articles  are  admitted. 
But  though  this  enumeration  embraces  all  the  articles  which  it 
is  of  present  material  consequence  to  us  to  export  to  those  domi- 
nions ;  yet  in  process  of  time  an  extension  of  the  objects  may 
become  of  moment.  The  fixing  of  the  privileges  which  we  now 
enjoy  by  toleration  of  the  Company's  government  in  the  British 
East  Indies,  if  any  arrangement  could  be  made  with  the  consent 
of  the  Company  for  that  purpose,  would  also  be  a  valuable  in- 
gredient. 

The  foregoing  is  conformed  to  the  ideas  in  which  the  Secre- 
tary at  War  and  Attorney-General  appeared  to  concur. 

It  is  my  opinion,  that  if  an  indemnification  for  the  depreda- 
tions committed  on  our  trade,  and  the  execution  of  those  points 
of  the  treaty  of  peace  which  remain  unexecuted  on  the  part  of 
Great  Britain  can  be  accomplished  on  satisfactory  terms,  and  it 
should  appear  a  necessary  mean  to  this  end,  to  combine  a  treaty 
of  commerce  for  a  short  term  on  the  footing  of  the  statu  quo,  the 
conclusion  of  such  a  treaty  would  be  consistent  with  the  inter- 
ests of  the  United  States. 

A.  Hamilton. 


HAMILTON  TO  JAY. 

Philadelphia,  May  6,  1794. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

I  send  you  herewith  sundry  papers  and  documents  which 
contain  information  that  may  be  not  useless  to  you  in  your  mis- 
sion. I  had  wished  to  have  found  leisure  to  say  many  things  to 
you,  but  my  occupations  permit  me  to  offer  only  a  few  loose  ob- 
servations. 

*  This  is  now  the  case,  though  a  general  impression  to  the  contrary  has  pre- 
vailed.    See  Proclamation  of  1792. 


552  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  37. 

We  are  both  impressed  equally  strongly  with,  the  great  im- 
portance of  a  right  adjustment  of  all'rnatters  of  past  controversy 
and  future  good  understanding  with  Great  Britain.  Yet,  impor- 
tant as  this  object  is,  it  will  be  better  to  do  nothing,  than  to  do 
any  thing  that  will  not  stand  the  test  of  the  severest  scrutiny — 
and  especially,  which  may  be  construed  into  the  relinquishment 
of  a  substantial  right  or  interest. 

The  object  of  indemnification  for  the  depredations  committed 
on  our  trade,  in  consequence  of  the  instructions  of  the  6th  of 
November,  is  very  near  the  hearts  and  feelings  of  the  people  of 
this  country.  The  proceeding  was  an  atrocious  one.  It  would 
not  answer  in  this  particular  to  make  any  arrangement  on  the 
mere  appearance  of  indemnification.  If  nothing  substantial  can 
be  agreed  upon,  it  will  be  best  to  content  yourself  with  endeavor- 
ing to  dispose  the  British  Cabinet,  of  their  own  accord,  to  go  as 
far  as  they  think  fit  in  reparation,  leaving  the  United  States  at 
full  liberty  to  act  afterwards  as  they  deem  proper.  I  am  how- 
ever still  of  opinion,  that  substantial  indemnification,  on  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  instruction  of  January  8th,  may  in  the  last  resort 
be  admissible. 

What  I  have  said  goes  upon  the  idea  of  the  affair  of  indem- 
nification standing  alone.  If  you  can  effect  solid  arrangements 
with  regard  to  the  points  unexecuted  of  the  treaty  of  peace,  the 
question  of  indemnification  may  be  managed  with  less  rigor,  and 
may  be  still  more  laxly  dealt  with,  if  a  truly  beneficial  treaty 
of  commerce,  embracing  privileges  in  the  West  India  Islands, 
can  be  established.  It  will  be  worth  the  while  of  the  govern- 
ment of  this  country,  in  such  case,  to  satisfy,  itself,  its  own  citi- 
zens who  have  suffered. 

The  principle  of  Great  Britain  is,  that  a  neutral  nation  ought 
not  to  be  permitted  to  carry  on,  in  time  of  war,  a  commerce  with 
a  nation  at  war,  which  it  could  not  carry  on  with  that  nation  in 
time  of  peace.  It  is  not  without  importance  in  this  question, 
that  the  peace  system  of  France  allowed  our  vessels  access  to  her 
islands  with  a  variety  of  our  principal  staples,  and  allowed  us  to 
take  from  thence  some  of  their  products ;  and  that,  by  frequent 
colonial  regulations,  this  privilege  extended  to  almost  all  other 
articles. 


Mt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  553 

The  great  political  and  commercial  considerations  which 
ought  to  influence  the  conduct  of  Great  Britain  towards  this 
country,  are  familiar  to  you.  They  are  strengthened  by  the  in- 
creasing acquisitions  in  the  West  Indies,  if  these  shall  be  ulti- 
mately confirmed,  which  seems  to  create  an  absolute  dependence- 
on  us  for  supply. 

I  see  not  how  it  can  be  disputed  with  you,  that  this  country, 
in  a  commercial  sense,  is  more  important  to  Great  Britain  than 
any  other.  The  articles  she  takes  from  us  are  certainly  precious 
to  her ;  important,  perhaps  essential  to  the  ordinary  subsistence 
of  her  islands ;  not  unimportant  to  her  own  subsistence  occasion- 
ally ;  always  very  important  to  her  manufactures,  and  of  real 
consequence  to  her  revenue.  As  a  consumer,  the  paper  will 
show  that  we  stand  unrivalled.  We  now  consume  of  her  exports 
from  a  million  to  a  million  and  a  half  sterling  more  in  value 
than  any  other  foreign  country ;  and  while  the  consumption  of 
other  countries,  from  obvious  causes,  is  likely  to  be  stationary, 
that  of  this  country  is  increasing,  and  for  a  long  series  of  years 
will  increase  rapidly.  Our  manufactures  are  no  doubt  progres- 
sive. But  our  population  and  means  progress  so  much  faster, 
that  our  demand  for  manufactured  supply  far  outgoes  the  pro- 
gress of  our  faculty  to  manufacture.  Nor  can  this  cease  to  be 
the  case  for  any  calculable  period  of  time. 

How  unwise  then  in  Great  Britain,  to  suffer  such  a  state  of 
things  to  remain  exposed  to  the  hazard  of  constant  interruption 
and  derangement,  by  not  fixing  on  the  basis  of  a  good  treaty  the 
principles  on  which  it  should  continue. 

Among  the  considerations  which  ought  to  lead  her  to  a  treaty, 
is  the  obtaining  a  renunciation  of  all  pretension  of  right  to  se- 
quester or  confiscate  debts  by  way  of  reprisal,  &c,  though  I  have 
no  doubt  this  is  the  modern  law  of  nations.  Yet  the  point  of 
right  cannot  be  considered  so  absolutely  settled  as  not  to  make  it 
interesting  to  fix  it  by  treaty. 

There  is  a  fact  which  has  escaped  observation  in  this  country, 
and  which,  as  there  has  existed  too  much  disposition  to  convulse 
our  trade,  I  have  not  thought  it  prudent  to  bring  into  view, 
which  it  is  interesting  you  should  be  apprised  of.     An  act  of  Par- 


554  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  37. 

liament  (27  Geo.  III.,  chap.  27)  allows  foreign  European  vessels, 
single  decked  and  not  exceeding  seventy  tons  burthen,  to  carry 
to  certain  ports  in  the  British  West  Indies,  particular  articles 
therein  enumerated,  and  also  to  take  from  thence  certain  articles. 

This  consequently  puts  an  end  to  the  question  of  precedent, 
which  is  so  strongly  urged  against  a  departure  from  the  British 
navigation  act  in  our  favor,  since  it  gives  the  precedent  of  such 
a  departure  in  favor  of  others,  and  to  our  exclusion,  a  circum- 
stance worthy  of  particular  notice.'  Our  relative  situation  gives 
us  a  stronger  plea  for  an  exception  in  our  favor,  than  any  other 
nation  can  urge.  In  paper  B  the  idea  of  a  treaty  of  commerce 
on  the  footing  of  a  statu  quo,  for  a  short  period  (say  five  years),  - 
is  brought  into  view.  I  should  understand  this  as  admissible 
only  in  the  event  of  a  satisfactory  arrangement  with  regard  to 
the  points  unexecuted  of  the  treaty  of  peace. 

But  you  will  discover  from  your  instructions,  that  the  opinion 
which  has  prevailed  is,  that  such  a  treaty  of  commerce  ought  not 
to  be  concluded  without  previous  reference  here  for  further  in- 
struction. It  is  desirable,  however,  to  push  the  British  ministry 
in  this  respect  to  a  result,  that  the  extent  of  their  views  may  be 
ascertained. 

The  navigation  of  the  Mississippi  is  to  us  an  object  of  im- 
mense consequence.  Besides  other  considerations  connected  with 
it,  if  the  government  of  the  United  States  can  procure  and  secure 
the  enjoyment  of  it  to  our  Western  country,  it  will  be  an  infi- 
nitely strong  link  of  union  between  that  country  and  the  Atlan- 
tic States.  As  its  preservation  will  depend  on  the  naval  resources 
of  the  Atlantic  States,  the  Western  country  cannot  but  feel  that 
this  essential  interest  depends  on  its  remaining  firmly  united  with 
them. 

If  any  thing  could  be  done  with  Great  Britain  to  increase  our 
chances  for  the  speedy  enjoyment  of  this  right,  it  would  be,  in 
my  judgment,  a  very  valuable  ingredient  in  any  arrangement  you 
could  make.  Nor  is  Great  Britain  without  a  great  interest  in  the 
question,  if  the  arrangement  shall  give  to  her  a  participation  in 
that  navigation,  and  a  treaty  of  commerce  shall  admit  her  ad- 
vantageously into  this  large  field  of  commercial  adventure. 


jEt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  555 

May  it  not  be  possible  to  obtain  a  guarantee  of  our  right  in 
this  particular  from  Great  Britain,  on  the  condition  of  mutual 
enjoyment  and  a  trade  on  the  same  terms  as  to  our  Atlantic 
ports  ? 

This  is  a  delicate  subject,  not  well  matured  in  my  mind.  It 
is  the  more  delicate,  as  there  is  at  this  moment  a  negotiation 
pending  with  Spain,  in  a  position  I  believe  not  altogether  un- 
promising, and  ill  use  might  be  made  of  any  overture  or  inti- 
mation on  the  subject.  Indeed,  in  such  a  posture  of  the  thing, 
an  eventual  arrangement  only  could  be  proper.  I  throw  out  the 
subject  merely  that  you  may  contemplate  it. 

With  the  most  fervent  wishes  for  your  health,  comfort,  and 
success,  I  remain,  &c.  ' 


TREATY  PROJECT. 

1794. 

An  import  duty,  not  exceeding  10  per  cent,  ad  valorem  at 
the  place  of  exportation,  may  be  laid  on  manufactures  of  flax, 
hemp,  wool,  cotton,  silk,  furs,  or  of  mixtures  of  either,  of  gold, 
silver,  copper,  brass,  iron,  steel,  tin,  pewter,  or  of  which  either  of 
these  metals  is  the  material  or  chief  value — upon  flour,  salted 
beef,  pork  and  fish,  and  oils  of  every  kind.  Bar  iron  and  bar 
lead,  nails  and  spikes,  steel  un wrought,  cables,  cordage,  yarn, 
twine  and  pack-thread,  shall  not  be  deemed  to  be  included  in  the 
foregoing  enumeration. 

An  import  duty,  not  exceeding  15  per  cent,  ad  valorem  at 
the  place  of  exportation,  may  be  laid  upon  porcelain  or  china 
wares,  glass  and  all  manufactures  of  glass,  stone  and  earthen 
wares,  and  generally  upon  all  manufactures  of  which  stone  or 
earth  is  the  principal  material. 

An  import  duty,  not  exceeding  50  per  cent,  ad  valorem  at 
the  place  of  exportation,  may  be  laid  on  all  spirits  distilled  from 
fruits.  (This  is  computed  on  a  gallon  of  brandy  costing  2s. 
sterling.) 


556  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  37. 

An  import  duty,  not  exceeding  25  per  cent,  ad  valorem  at 
the  place  of  exportation  may  be  laid  on  all  wines.  Grain  of 
every  kind,  peas  and  other  vegetables,  live  cattle,  pitch,  tar,  and 
turpentine,  unmanufactured  wood,  indigo,  pot  and  pearl  ash,  flax, 
hemp,  cotton,  silk,  wool,  shall  be  free  from  duties  both  on  ex- 
portation and  importation. 

Neither  party  shall  impose  any  duty  on  the  exportation  to 
the  countries  of  the  other  of  any  raw  material  whatsoever.  This 
prohibition  shall  be  deemed  to  extend  to  molasses  and  tobacco. 

An  export  duty,  not  exceeding  5  per  cent,  ad  valorem  at  the 
place  of  exportation,  may  be  imposed  on  all  brown  and  clayed 
sugars.  All  articles  not  specified  or  described  in  the  foregoing 
clauses,  may  be  rated  according  to  the  discretion  of  each  party,  both 
as  to  exportation  and  importation ;  but  neither  party  shall  lay 
any  higher  duty  upon  any  production  or  manufacture  of  the 
other  imported  into  any  part  of  the  dominions  of  such  party, 
than  shall  be  laid  upon  the  like  or  a  similar  production  or  man- 
ufacture of  any  other  nation  imported  into  the  same  or  any  other 
part  of  the  dominions  of  the  said  party. 

Neither  party  shall  subject  the  vessels,  cargoes  or  merchants 
of  the  other  to  any  greater  charges  or  burdens  within  its  own 
ports,  than  its  own  vessels,  cargoes  and  merchants  shall  be  sub- 
ject to  within  the  ports  of  the  other,  except  as  to  duties  by  way 
of  revenue  to  the  government,  which  may  be  regulated  as  either 
party  pleases  within  the  limits  and  in  conformity  to  the  princi- 
ples established  in  this  treaty. 

Neither  party  shall  grant  any  bounties  or  premiums  upon  its 
own  ships,  nor  upon  commodities  imported  in  its  own  ships, 
which  shall  not  extend  to  the  ships  nor  to  commodities  imported 
in  the  ships  of  the  other  party ;  nor  upon  any  commodities  what- 
soever, with  special  reference,  direct  or  indirect,  to  an  exporta- 
tion to  the  countries  of  the  other. 

Neither  party  shall  prohibit  an  importation  into  its  own  do- 
minions or  the  vent  there  of  any  of  the  productions  or  manu- 
factures of  the  other. 

Neither  party  shall  grant  or  allow,  in  consequence  of  any 
former  grant,  any  privilege  or  exemption  in  trade  to  another  na- 


>Et.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  557 

tion,  which  shall  not  be,  ipso  facto,  communicated  to  the  other 
party.  Neither  party  shall  grant  to  another  nation  the  peculiar 
privileges  and  exemptions  stipulated  by  this  treaty,  except  for 
the  peculiar  considerations  upon  which  they  are  herein  stipu- 
lated. Peculiar  privileges  and  exemptions  and  peculiar  con- 
siderations shall  be  deemed  to  be  those  only  which  are  contained 
in  the  stipulations  of  the  articles. 

Neither  party  shall  reduce  any  existing  duties  upon  the  ships, 
productions  or  manufactures  of  other  countries,  except  by  virtue 
of  a  treaty  founded  on  a  reciprocation  of  equal  privileges  and 
exemptions  with  those  mutually  stipulated  in  the  present  treaty. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  May  9,  1794. 

Sir: 

The  inclosed  letter  from  Mr.  Hammond,  of  the  6th  instant, 
was  transmitted  to  me  by  the  Secretary  of  State,  with  a  request 
that  after  satisfying  myself  of  the  step  proper  to  be  taken,  I 
would  communicate  it  to  you,  and  notify  your  determination  to 
Mr.  Hammond. 

The  copy  herewith  sent  of  a  letter  from  Mr.  Eawle,  exhibits 
the  facts  which  appear  in  the  case ;  and  reasoning  from  them,  the 
conclusion  is,  that  the  proceeding  complained  of  is  as  wanton  and 
unprovoked,  as  it  is  illegal  and  disorderly.  There  is  no  doubt, 
that  justice  to  the  parties  concerned,  the  maintenance  of  the  laws, 
and  the  discouragement  of  a  practice,  which  attempts  an  usurpa- 
tion of  the  functions  of  government  and  goes  in  subversion  of 
all  order,  requires  that  steps  should  be  seriously  taken  to  bring 
the  offenders  to  justice. 

It  is  the  opinion  of  the  attorney  of  the  district,  that  the  case 
is  not  of  the  cognizance  of  the  federal  judiciary.  Hence  it  be- 
comes necessary  that  it  should  be  referred  to  the  authority  of  the 
State.     But  it  appears  to  be  proper  under  the  special  circum- 


558  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  31. 

stances,  that  a  letter  should  be  written  on  the  part  of  the  Presi- 
dent to  the  Governor  of  Pennsylvania,  communicating  the  case 
and  the  complaint  of  the  Minister,  and  calling  upon  him  in 
earnest  terms  to  cause  the  proper  legal  steps  to  be  taken  to  bring 
the  offenders  to  justice,  and  thereby  give  security  to  the  parties 
and  repress  so  exceptionable  and  disorderly  a  spirit. 

With  regard  to  the  restoration  of  the  vessel,  in  the  condition 
in  which  she  was  preceding  the  trespass,  it  is  not  perceived  that 
the  nature  of  the  case  requires  the  extraordinary  interposition  of 
the  government  for  that  purpose,  and  the  precedent  might  be  an 
embarrassing  one.  The  vessel  is  one  belonging  to  citizens  of  the 
United  States,  employed  indeed,  as  is  now  stated,  by  a  British 
Consul,  but  for  the  personal  accommodation  of  certain  subjects 
of  Great  Britain ;  that  is,  to  convey  them  to  their  own  country, 
nor  for  a  purpose  properly  governmental.  It  is  not  perceived 
that  this  situation  sufficiently  distinguishes  her  case  from  the 
common  one  of  a  vessel  suffering  injury  by  the  trespass  of  un- 
authorized and  lawless  individuals,  for  the  redress  of  which, 
including  indemnification,  the  ordinary  course  of  law  is  compe- 
tent. It  is  not  understood  that  there  exists  any  impediment  to 
the  repossession  of  the  vessel  by  her  commander. 

If  these  ideas  are  approved  by  the  President,  it  will  remain 
to  direct  the  proper  communications  to  the  Governor  and  to  the 
British  Minister. 

With  perfect  respect,  &c. 

P.  S. — I  will  have  the  honor  of  waiting  on  the  President 
between  twelve  and  one  o'clock,  to  know  if  he  has  any  further 
commands  on  the  subject. 


CABINET  OPINION. 


May  13th,  1794. 
At  a  meeting  of  the  Heads  of  the  Departments  and  the  At- 
torney-General, at  the  house  of  the  President  of  the  United 
States,  the  subject  of  affording  an  auxiliary  force  to  Major- 


^Et.37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  559 

General  Wayne,  for  the  purpose  of  enabling  him  to  make  a 
vigorous  and  offensive  campaign  against  the  hostile  Indians,  be- 
ing considered,  it  is  advised,  that  he  be  authorized  to  call  for 
two  thousand  mounted  volunteers  from  Kentucky,  for  the  period 
of  four  months,  if  he  should  judge  the  measure  expedient. 

Alexander  Hamilton, 
H.  Knox, 
Edm.  Eandolph, 
Wm.  Bradford. 


CABINET  OPINION. 

May  24th;  1794. 
Upon  consideration  of  the  letter  of  Governor  Mifflin  to  the 
President  of  the  United  States,  of  this  date,  respecting  his  draft- 
ing one  thousand  men  of  the  Western  militia  of  this  State,  for 
the  purpose  of  supporting  the  detachment  directed  to  take  pos- 
session of  Presqu'  Isle,  he  was  advised  [thus  by  Knox — the  resi- 
due Hamilton's],  that  on  mature  reflection,  the  President  is  of 
opinion  that  it  is  advisable  to  suspend  for  the  present  the  estab- 
lishment at  Presqu'  Isle ;  that,  independent  of  certain  other 
considerations  of  delicacy  and  moment,  which  at  no  distant  day 
will  be  better  appreciated,  the  high  probability  of  an  immediate 
rupture  with  the  six  nations  of  Indians  countenanced  by  late 
information,  and  increased  by  the  recent  murder  of  their  people, 
appears  to  him  a  solid  reason  for  a  temporary  suspension. 

H.  Knox, 

Alexander  Hamilton, 
Edm.  Eandolph, 
Wm.  Bradford. 


560  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  37. 


HAMILTON  TO   WASHINGTON". 

May  27th,  1794. 

Sir: 

In  answer  to  the  inquiry  you  have  been  pleased  to  make,  I 
have  the  honor  to  inform  you  that  nothing  has  been  yet  done 
upon  the  first  section  of  the  act  of  the  20th  of  March  last,  which 
appropriates  a  million  of  dollars  to  defray  any  expense  that  may 
be  incurred  in  relation  to  the  intercourse  between  the  United 
States  and  foreign  nations ;  authorizing  the  President,  if  neces- 
sary, to  borrow  the  whole  or  any  part  of  that  sum. 

I  should,  before  this,  have  brought  that  subject  under  the 
consideration  of  the  President,  but  for  the  following  reasons : 

The  act  directs  that  the  sum  in  question  shall  be  paid  out  of 
any  moneys  which  may  be  in  the  Treasury,  not  otherwise  appro- 
priated, but  refers  to  no  time  as  the  criterion  of  such  unappropri- 
ated moneys.  To  understand  moneys  as  synonymous  with 
funds — which  was  no  doubt  meant,  as  has  been  the  frequent 
language  of  appropriation  laws — and  to  attach  the  appropriation 
upon  the  funds,  which,  at  the  time  of  passing  the  act,  were  not 
otherwise  appropriated,  would  materially  endanger  the  adequate- 
ness  of  the  funds,  for  satisfying  the  appropriations  for  the  War 
Department,  for  the  present  year,  which  happens  to  have  re- 
ceived the  signature  of  the  President  one  day  later. 

To  act,  therefore,  upon  the  law,  in  this  sense,  would  essen- 
tially embarrass  that  more  urgent  part  of  the  public  service 
which  respects  our  military  operations,  and  would  no  doubt  con- 
travene the  intention  of  the  legislature. 

It  is  well  understood  that  this  intention  was  to  postpone  the 
object  in  question  to  a  future  provision,  and  accordingly  the 
Committee  of  Ways  and  Means  have  had  a  special  reference  to 
it  in  the  new  taxes  proposed.  To  construe  the  law  according  to 
this  intention,  it  is  necessary  to  wait  for  such  further  provision ; 
for  there  would  be  no  fund  that  could  be  relied  upon  as  the  basis 
of  the  loan  to  be  obtained. 

When  this  provision  shall  be  made,  it  will  remain  for  the 


Mt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  561 

President  to  determine  whether  he  will,  upon  contingency,  incur 
the  expense  to  the  United  States  of  borrowing  the  entire  sum  at 
once,  or  whether  he  will  subdivide  it,  or  wait  a  further  develop- 
ment of  circumstances  respecting  the  probability  of  a  call  for  the 
money  before  any  operation  is  made. 

But  though  I  could  not  recommend  an  attempt  to  borrow 
the  entire  sum,  as  the  business  is  now  situated,  yet,  if  there  be 
any  particular  call  for  a  part  of  it,  I  presume  arrangements  may 
be  adopted  which  will  procure  it. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  May  27thr  1794. 

Sir: 

I  some  time  since  communicated  an  intention  to  withdraw 
from  the  office  I  hold,  towards  the  close  of  the  present  session. 

This  I  should  now  put  in  execution,  but  for  the  events  which 
have  lately  accumulated,  of  a  nature  to  render  the  prospects  of 
the  continuance  of  our  peace  in  a  considerable  degree  precarious. 
I  do  not  perceive  that  I  could  voluntarily  quit  my  post  at  such  a 
juncture  consistently  with  considerations  either  of  duty  or  cha- 
racter ;  and  therefore  I  find  myself  reluctantly  obliged  to  defer 
the  offer  of  my  resignation. 

But  if  any  circumstances  should  have  taken  place  in  conse- 
quence of  the  intimation  of  an  intention  to  resign,  or  should 
otherwise  exist,  which  serve  to  render  my  continuance  in  office 
in  any  degree  inconvenient  or  ineligible,  I  beg  leave  to  assure 
3^ou,  sir,  I  should  yield  to  them  with  all  the  readiness  naturally 
inspired  by  an  impatient  desire  to  relinquish  a  situation  in  which 
even  a  momentary  stay  could  only  be  produced  by  a  sense  of 
duty  or  reputation. 

With  the  highest  respect,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 

D  36 


562  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  37. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Philadelphia,  May  29th,  1794. 

Sir: 

The  communication  which  you  made  to  me  some  time  ago, 
of  your  intention  to  resign,  and  to  which  you  refer  in  your  letter 
of  the  27th  instant,  received  yesterday  afternoon,  I  always  con- 
sidered as  depending  upon  events. 

Of  course  nothing  has  been  done  by  me  to  render  your  con- 
tinuance in  office  inconvenient  or  ineligible.  On  the  contrary, 
I  am  pleased  that  you  have  determined  to  remain  at  your  post 
until  the  clouds  over  our  affairs,  which  have  come  on  so  fast  of 
late,  shall  be  dispersed. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  June  4th,  1794. 

Sir: 

I  have  the  honor  to  reply  to  your  letter  of  the  29th  of  May, 
on  the  subject  of  the  million  of  dollars  granted  by  the  act  of  the 
20th  of  March  last. 

As  a  day  or  two  must  determine  the  question  of  the  fund, 
and  will  probably  produce  the  requisite  disposition  concerning 
it,  measures  may  be  taken  provisionally  on  that  supposition. 
I  therefore  send  herewith  the  draft  of  a  power  for  making  the 
loan,  to  be  executed  if  approved. 

The  President,  if  I  understand  rightly,  by  the  concluding 
part  of  his  letter,  is  desirous  of  knowing  whether  a  loan  could 
not  be  engaged  conditionally,  to  take  effect  when  the  occasion 
of  employing  the  money  shall  occur. 

I  could  not  promise  myself  that  this  would  be  found  practi- 
cable. Neither  banks  nor  individuals  would  be  willing  to  hold 
so  large  a  sum  suspended  upon  a  contingency,  at  least  without  a 
considerable  premium  for  the  purpose. 


jEt.37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  563 

The  principal  question  therefore  is,  shall  an  absolute  loan  of 
the  sum  be  immediately  made?  To  this  there  is  the  strong  ob- 
jection of  its  being  entirely  uncertain  when  the  money  will  be 
wanted  for  employment. 

Perhaps  it  may  be  found  most  advisable  to  take  the  following 
course,  viz. :  to  lodge  in  Holland  power  to  make  a  loan  of  eight 
hundred  thousand  dollars,  to  be  set  on  foot  when  the  person  who 
is  charged  with  the  negotiation  with  Algiers  shall  direct — he  to 
be  instructed  not  to  cause  the  loan  to  be  entered  upon,  till  a  pro- 
bable prospect  of  treating  successfully  with  Algiers  opens — the 
power  of  borrowing  the  residue,  to  be  reserved  for  exercise  here, 
as  occasion  shall  require.  This  division  is  proposed  upon  the 
consideration  that  a  part  of  the  sum  is  and  may  be  necessary  for 
other  purposes  than  the  Algerine  business.  Mr.  Jay's  mission 
is  an  example. 

This  course,  while  it  avoids  the  incurring  of  expense  which 
may  be  useless,  and  that  for  an  indeterminate  period,  puts  the 
thing  in  a  train  to  give  a  more  expeditious  command  of  the 
money  than  if  it  were  to  wait,  after  a  prospect  of  negotiation 
opens  for  communication  here,  and  operations  from  hence. 

It  is  probable,  that  a  premium  not  exceeding  two  per  cent., 
may  obtain  an  engagement  in  Holland,  to  furnish  the  loan  when 
wanted,  on  certain  specified  terms.  Those  of  the  last  loan  are 
the  best  that  can  be  expected  under  present  circumstances, 
namely,  5  per  cent,  interest,  and  5  per  cent,  charges.  This,  if 
thought  advisable,  may  be  attempted. 

The  permanent  removal  of  Mr.  Short  to  Madrid,  indicates  the 
expediency  of  constituting  his  successor  in  Holland  agent  for 
future  loans.  An  instruction  of  the  President  on  this  head  is 
requested. 

With  perfect  respect,  &c. 


164  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  37. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  June  4th,  1794. 

Sm: 

Upon  the  receipt  of  the  communication  to  you  from  the  Gov- 
ernor of  Pennsylvania  of  the  18th  of  April  last,  I  put  that  letter 
and  the  papers  attending  it  into  the  hands  of  the  Commissioner 
of  Kevenue  to  examine  into  the  suggestions  made,  and  report 
to  me  concerning  them. 

The  result  is  contained  in  a  letter  from  that  officer  dated  the 
25th  of  April,  (which  hurry  of  business  put  out  of  sight,)  and. 
which  is  now  communicated  only  for  the  information  of  the  Pre- 
sident, as  the  case  does  not  seem  to  require  any  particular  reply 
to  the  Governor,  nor  any  act  upon  the  subject;  and  the  exhibi- 
tion to  him  of  the  picture,,  which  I  believe  is  justly  drawn  of  the 
conduct  of  Mr.  Addison  and  others,  would  perhaps  only  excite 
useless  irritation. 

The  removal  of  either  of  the  officers  objected  to,  after  the 
persecution  they  have  suffered  and  the  perseverance  they  have 
displayed,  would  be  a  hazardous  step ;  and  a  suspicion  is  war- 
ranted by  the  conduct  of  the  parties,  that  it  may  have  been  re- 
commended with  an  insidious  view.  Experience,  however,  may 
better  explain  in  a  little  time,  whether  any  concession  on  that 
point  will  be  expedient ;  in  which  case,  some  means  of  indemni- 
fying the  officer  or  officers  who  should  be  removed  would  be  de- 
manded both  by  justice  and  policy. 

With  perfect  respect,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  JAY. 

Philadelphia1  June  4,  1794. 

My  Dear  Sir: 

The  session  of  Congress  is  about  to  close  better  than  I  ex- 
pected.    All  mischievous  measures  have  been  prevented,  and 


^Et.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  565 

several  good  ones  have  been  established.  Among  these,  addi- 
tional provisions  of  revenue  and  some  -of  force,  are  not  the  least 
important. 

But  as  more  immediately  connected  with  the  objects  of  your 
mission,  you  will  learn  with  satisfaction,  that  the  bill  which  had 
passed  the  Senate  before  you  left  this,  for  punishing  and  pre- 
venting practices  contrary  to  neutrality,  has  become  a  law,  with 
only  one  material  alteration,  the  rejection  of  the  clause  which 
forbids  the  selling  of  prizes.  I  now  consider  the  Executive  and 
the  Judiciary,  as  armed  with  adequate  means  for  repressing  the 
fitting  out  of  privateers,  the  taking  of  commissions,  or  enlisting  in 
foreign  service,  the  unauthorized  undertaking  of  military  expe- 
ditions. &a 

At  Charleston  some  considerable  irregularities  have  lately 
happened,  and  means  have  been  taken  and  are  in  train,  which 
will  no  doubt  arrest  their  progress  and  correct  the  evil. 

I  believe  it  would  be  useful  for  you  to  collect  and  communi- 
cate exact  information  with  regard  to  the  usage  of  Europe  as  to 
permitting  the  sale  of  prizes  in  neutral  countries.  If  this  should 
be  clearly  against  the  toleration  of  the  practice,  the  Executive 
might  still,  perhaps,  disembarrass  itself. 

Men's  minds  have  gotten  over  the  irritation  by  which  they 
were  some  time  since  possessed,  and  if  Great  Britain  is  disposed 
to  justice,  peace,  and  conciliation,  the  two  countries  may  still  ar- 
rive at  a  better  understanding  than  has  for  some  time  subsisted 
between  them.  Is  there  not  a  crisis,  which  she  ought  not  to  suf- 
fer to  pass,  without  laying  a  solid  foundation  for  future  harmo- 
ny ?     I  think  there  is. 

Adieu,  my  dear  sir ;  not  knowing  how  far  any  press  of  busi- 
ness on  the  Department  of  State  might  delay  its  communications, 
I  thought  a  few  hasty  lines  would  not  be  unacceptable. 

Yours  truly,  &e. 


566  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  37. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Philadelphia,  7th  June,  1794. 

Sir: 

I  approve  of  the  plan  proposed  in  your  letter  of  the  4th  in- 
stant, namely,  that  a  power  for  making  a  loan  of  eight  hundred 
thousand  dollars  be  lodged  in  Holland,  to  be  used  at  the  time 
specified  in  that  letter.  When  the  business  of  Algiers  is  ar- 
ranged, it  will  be  seen  whether  it  be  proper  to  give  the  premium 
of  two  per  cent,  for  an  engagement  to  have  the  loan  ready  when 
it  is  wanted.  The  remaining  two  hundred  thousand  dollars  may 
be  reserved  for  the  other  purposes  of  foreign  intercourse. 

I  presume  that  the  power,  which  you  design  for  Mr.  Adams, 
will  be  of  the  same  kind  with  that  formerly  given  to  his  prede- 
cessor, Mr.  Short.  I  wish  you  to  have  the  two  powers  prepared 
in  conformity  with  this  letter. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

June  14, 1794. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  presents  his  respects  to  the 
President.  He  had  thought  that  the  appointment  of  a  Super- 
visor for  Pennsylvania  might,  without  inconvenience,  be  deferred 
till  the  return  of  the  President,  and  therefore  deferred  mention- 
ing it ;  but  on  more  particular  reflection,  as  a  new  revenue  year 
commences  with  the  1st  of  July,  he  believes  it  would  be  of  use 
to  accelerate  the  appointment. 

The  persons  who  have  more  particularly  occurred  to  the  in- 
quiries of  the  Secretary  (and  his  inquiries  have  been  particular 
and  extensive),  are,  General  Hand,  now  Inspector;  Col.  Henry 
Miller,  of  York  county ;  Charles  Biddle,  of  this  city ;  Col.  Francis 
Nichols;  M.  Clarkson,  Mayor;  and  Major  Lennox. 

General  Hand,  from  situation,  would  claim  particular  con- 


;Et.37.]  cabinet    papers.  567 

sideration ;  but  the  Secretary,  with,  much  esteem  for  that  gentle- 
man on  all  personal  accounts,  is  obliged  in  duty  to  say,  that  he 
has  been  so  materially  defective  in  the  execution  of  his  present 
office  as  to  forbid  an  assurance  that  the  superior  one  would  be  ex- 
ecuted by  him  with  due  attention  and  exertion.  And  it  is  of 
vast  consequence  to  the  revenue  and  to  the  government,  that  no 
mistake  should  be  committed  in  the  present  choice. 

Of  the  persons  named,  Col.  Miller,  all  circumstances  con- 
sidered, has  the  judgment  of  the  Secretary  in  his  favor.  All 
agree  that  he  is  a  man  of  good  character,  of  friendly  dispositions 
to  the  government  and  laws  of  the  United  States,  of  industry, 
exertion,  address  and  distinguished  firmness,  of  adequate  though 
not  superior  ability,  and  most  likely,  of  any  man  on  whom  equal 
dependence  can  be  placed,  to  have  weight  in  the  most  refractory 
scene  of  this  State.  He  is  also  a  man  of  decent  property,  unem- 
barrassed. Among  those  who  warmly  recommend  him  is  Mr. 
Ross,  Senator  of  this  State,  who  lives  in  one  of  the  most  western 
counties. 

Mr.  Biddle  has  many  things  in  his  favor.  Perhaps  he  has 
more  ability  than  any  of  the  persons  named,  and  no  doubts  are 
entertained  of  his  firmness,  activity,  or  attention.  His  con- 
nections and  influence  are  principally  among  the  malcontents ; 
but  most  persons  who  have  been  consulted  entertain  an  unfavor- 
ble  impression  of  his  political  principles,  and  think  there  is  not 
full  assurance  that  he  would  not  sacrifice  the  duties  of  his  station 
and  the  interests  of  the  government  to  party  considerations.  He 
was  named  by  the  Democratic  Society  Vice-President,  which  he 
has,  it  seems,  neither  accepted  nor  publicly  disavowed.  Several 
attach  an  idea  of  cunning  and  duplicity  to  the  character.  One 
good  judge  of  character  thinks  favorably  of  his  principles,  and 
that  reliance  may  be  placed ;  but  the  result  of  a  comprehensive 
inquiry  is,  that  there  would  be  hazard  in  the  appointment,  and 
thetcase  is  believed  to  be  one  in  which  nothing  ought  to  be 
hazarded. 

Col.  Nichols  and  Major  Lennox  stand  nearly  on  a  level — 
both  men  of  adequate  understanding,  honorable  characters,  some 
property,  undoubted  firmness,  and  probable  exertion ;  but  on  the 


568  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  37. 

last  point  there  is  greater  assurance  of  Major  Lennox.  But 
neither  of  these  gentlemen  seem  to  have  that  extensive  notoriety 
and  popularity  of  character  which  is  desirable  to  assist  the  pro- 
gress of  disagreeable  laws.  In  this  particular,  Mr.  Miller  or  Mr. 
Biddle  has  greatly  the  advantage. 

Mr.  Clarkson  has  several  things  in  his  favor ;  perhaps  rather 
more  ability  than  most  of  the  other  persons ;  but  he  wants  bodily 
activity,  which  may  be  a  point  of  consequence ;  and  he  is  said  to 
be  much  embarrassed  in  his  circumstances. 

The  Secretary  has  committed  these  remarks  to  writing,  not 
wishing  to  intrude  on  the  President  to-day,  and  desirous  of 
placing  the  subject  immediately  before  him.  If  he  should  con- 
clude on  the  person  before  he  leaves  town,  it  is  requested  that  he 
would  leave  a  commission,  signed  but  not  completed,  in  order  that 
it  may  be  previously  ascertained  whether  Mr.  Miller  will  accept. 

Among  the  persons  who  have  been  consulted  is  the  Attorney- 
General.  He  gave  a  preference  to  Mr.  Miller.  His  knowledge 
of  State  characters  is  diffusive  and  accurate.  Mr.  Miller  was 
lately  a  very  promising  candidate  for  the  place  of  Senator  in  the 
Senate  of  the  United  States. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  June  16th,  1794. 

Sir: 

It  is  with  regret  I  inform  }-ou  that  another  collector  has 
suffered  Treasury  drafts  to  return  unpaid,  which  were  drawn 
upon  moneys  reported  by  him  to  be  in  his  hands — Abraham 
Archer,  Esq.,  of  Yorktown.  Inclosed  are  letters  of  apology  on 
the  subject.  All  the  drafts  which  were  at  first  declined,  were 
afterwards  paid. 

I  perceive  nothing  substantially  to  distinguish  this  case  from 
that  of  the  collector  of  Tappahannock,  who  was  lately  super- 
seded on  a  similar  account.     Nor  can  I  forbear,  however  painful 


jEt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  t    569 

the  task,  to  submit  it  as  my  opinion  in  this  as  in  that  case,  that 
the  good  of  the  public  service  requires  a  displacement  of  the 
officer.     Punctuality  in  this  respect  is  too  indispensable  not  to  be 
made  the  invariable  condition  of  continuance  in  office. 
With  perfect  respect,  &c. 


HAMILTON   TO   WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia.  June  22,  1794. 

Sir: 

The  Secretary  of  State,  on  referring  to  you  the  question  of 
the  answer  to  be  given  to  Mr.  Hammond  concerning  compensa- 
tion for  certain  captured  vessels,  will,  I  presume,  transmit  to  you 
the  opinions  of  the  other  gentlemen,  as  well  as  his  own. 

Besides  the  reasons  hastily  sketched  in  the  memorandums 
given  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  there  is  one  of  a  delicate  nature, 
which  I  did  not  think  fit  to  put  on  a  paper  which  might  become 
a  public  document,  but  which,  I  think,  ought  to  be  submitted  to 
your  consideration. 

Though  the  form  of  only  giving  the  opinion  of  the  President 
that  it  was  incumbent  upon  the  United  States  to  make  compensa- 
tion in  the  case  has  been  used,  yet  between  nation  and  nation 
this  is  equivalent  to  a  virtual  engagement  that  compensation  will 
be  made :  and  we  were  all  sensible  in  advising  the  President  to 
give  that  opinion,  (which  advice  was  unanimous,)  that  a  non- 
compliance with  it  would  be  a  serious  commitment  of  the  charac- 
ter of  the  nation,  the  government,  and  the  President.  Indeed,  if 
the  legislature  should  not  do  its  part,  under  such  circumstances, 
it  would  necessarily  give  birth  to  considerations  very  embar- 
rassing to  the  delicacy  of  the  President. 

In  such  a  posture  of  things  is  it  not  advisable  to  narrow  the 
obstacles  to  a  right  issue  of  the  business?  If  Mr.  Jay  is  instructed 
to  insert  a  formal  stipulation  in  a  general  arrangement,  the  Senate 
only  will  have  to  concur.     If  provision  is  to  be  made  by  law, 


570  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  37. 

both  houses  must  concur.  The  difference  is  easily  seen.  And  it 
is  a  case  where  the  point  of  honor  is  too  materially  concerned  not 
to  dictate  the  expediency  of  leaving  as  little  hazard  as  possible 
upon  the  issue.  It  is  impossible  that  any  question  can  arise 
about  the  propriety  of  giving  this  course  to  the  business.  When 
we  are  demanding  compensation  for  our  captured  vessels  and 
goods,  it  is  the  simplest  thing  in  the  world,  to  stipulate  compen- 
sation for  those  of  Great  Britain,  which  we  acknowledge  to  have 
been  unlawfully  made  within  our  territory,  or  by  the  use  of  our 
means.  It  is  also  with  me  a  material  consideration,  that  the 
coupling  this  with  the  other  objects  of  Mr.  Jay's  negotiation, 
may  tend  to  disembarrass  in  future.  If  the  compensation  we 
seek  fails,  it  may  be  a  good  answer  to  the  claim  on  the  other 
side,  that  they  were  endeavored  without  success  to  be  made  a 
subject  of  reciprocal  stipulation.  I  speak  with  reference  to  the 
individuals  concerned. 

I  may  be,  perhaps,  too  nice.  But  this  is  one  of  those  ques- 
tions in  which  ideas  of  sincerity )  good  faith,  and  honor,  in  a  rela- 
tion which  must  always  engage  my  particular  solicitude,  press 
my  judgment  to  a  course  of  proceeding  which  is  calculated  to 
dispel  all  doubt. 

"With  perfect  respect,  &c. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 

Mount  Vernon,  July  2d,  1794. 

Dear  Sir: 

Your  private  letter  of  the  22d  June  came  to  hand,  and  for 
the  opinion  contained  in  it  I  thank  you.  I  always  feel  sincere 
gratification  from  the  frankness  and  unreserved  advice  of  my 
friends,  whether  it  coincides  with  my  sentiments  or  not. 

As  Congress,  to  whom  the  matter  was  referred,  did  not  (from 
causes  unknown  to  me)  think  proper  to  take  up  the  subject  of 
compensation  for  British  vessels  captured  by  the  proscribed  pri- 
vateers of  France;  and  as  this  is  one  of  the  subjects  committed 


jEt.37.]  cabinet   papers.  571 

to  Mr.  Jay's  negotiation,  or  at  least  within  his  powers,  T  do  not 
feel  disposed  to  make  any  further,  or  more  pointed  declaration 
to  Mr.  Hammond  on  this  head  at  this  time.  My  understanding 
of  the  original  communication  of  this  business  to  that  gentleman, 
differs  very  widely  from  your  interpretation  of  it.  It  is  well 
known  to  the  late  Secretary  of  State,  that  more  than  once,  I 
pointedly  desired  that  the  expression  might  be  so  guarded  as  to 
convey  nothing  more  than  an  opinion  of  the  Executive.  This,  it 
may  be  said,  (and  I  think)  ought  to  have  been,  confirmed  by  the 
legislature  ;  but  the  fact  is  otherwise  :  and  although  the  usage  of 
other  nations  may  be  opposed  to  this  practice,  the  difference  may 
result  from  the  difference  between  their  constitutions  and  ours, 
and  from  the  prerogative  of  their  Executives.  The  powers  of 
the  Executive  of  the  United  States  are  more  definite,  and  better 
understood,  perhaps,  than  those  of  almost  any  other  country, 
and  my  aim  has  been,  and  will  continue  to  be,  neither  to  stretch 
nor  relax  from  them  in  any  instance  whatever,  unless  imperious 
circumstances  should  render  the  measure  indispensable. 

Under  this  view  of  the  subject,  unless  the  case  was  more  ur- 
gent than  I  think  it,  the  matter  (as  it  respects  Mr.  Hammond) 
had  better,  I  conceive,  remain  on  the  footing  it  now  stands  ;  al- 
though I  have  no  objection,  as  I  had  written  to  the  Secretary  of 
State,  (before  I  had  received  your  private  letter)  that  he  might 
be  informed  informally,  and  verbally,  that  the  negotiation  of  this, 
as  well  as  other  matters,  was  transmitted  to  his  own  court. 

With  sincere  esteem  and  regard,  I  am,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  RANDOLPH. 

Philadelphia,  July  8th,  1794. 
The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  presents  his  compliments  to 
the  Secretary  of  State;  begs  leave  to  Inform  him  that  his  opin- 
ion on  the  question  lately  proposed,  respecting  the  instruction  of 
Mr.  Jay,  eventually  to  establish  by  treaty  a  concert  with  Sweden 


572  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  37. 

and  Denmark,  is  against  the  measure.  The  United  States  have 
peculiar  advantages  from  situation,  which  would  thereby  be 
thrown  into  common  stock  without  an  equivalent.  Denmark 
and  Sweden  are  too  weak  and  too  remote  to  render  a  co- 
operation useful ;  and  the  entanglements  of  a  treaty  with  them 
might  be  found  very  inconvenient.  The  United  States  had 
better  stand  upon  their  own  ground. 

If  a  war,  on  the  question  of  neutral  rights,  should  take  place, 
common  interest  would  likely  secure  all  the  co-operation  which 
is  practicable,  and  occasional  arrangements  may  be  made.  What 
has  been  already  done  in  this  respect,  appears,  therefore,  to  be 
sufficient. 

The  subject  has  varied  in  the  impression  entertained  of  it; 
but  the  foregoing  is  the  final  result  of  full  reflection. 


WASHINGTON  TO  HAMILTON. 
(private.) 

Philadelphia,  July  11th,  1794. 

Dear  Sir: 

I  am  sorry  to  hear  that  your  little  son  continues  indisposed, 
and  wish  you  to  carry  him  into  the  country  for  a  few  days,  if  it 
is  conceived  that  exercise  and  change  of  air  will  be  of  service 
to  him. 

Before  you  go,  or  as  soon  after  as  convenient,  I  should  be 
glad  to  receive  your  opinion,  in  writing,  on  the  Kentucky  and 
Georgia  business — both  of  which  have  been  communicated  to 
you  by  the  Secretaries  of  State  and  of  War,  or  one  of  them,  ac- 
cording to  the  information  I  have  received. 

I  sincerely  wish  that  the  excursion  you  propose  may  have 
the  desired  effect. 

I  am,  dear  sir,  your  affectionate  serv't,  &c. 

P.  S.  Have  you  drafted  any  answer  yet  to  the  letter  of  the  Mar- 
quis of  Lansdown  to  me,  introductory  of  the  Bishop  of  Autun  ? 


jet.si.]  cabinet   papers.  573 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  July  23th,  1794. 

4  I  have  considered  the  two  subjects  upon  which  you  desire 
my  opinion,  as  maturely  as  my  situation  has  permitted. 

With  regard  to  the  proceedings  in  Kentucky,  I  perceive 
nothing  that  can,  with  propriety  or  utility,  be  done  ;  unless  the 
Attorney-General,  on  full  and  careful  examination,  should  be 
of  opinion,  that  they  furnish  indictable  matter — in  which  case,  I 
should  think  it  very  material  that  prosecutions  against  the  osten- 
sible and  leading  characters  should  be  instituted. 

With  regard  to  the  affair  in  Georgia,  the  following  course 
presents  itself  as  eligible  : 

1.  To  urge  the  Governor  of  Georgia  to  employ,  efficaciously, 
all  the  means  in  his  power  (that  of  military  coercion,  if  necessary, 
excepted)  to  prevent  the  establishment  supposed  to  be  meditated, 
referring  him  to  the  late  act  of  Congress,  and  informing  him  that 
the  expense  will  be  borne  by  the  United  States.  The  command- 
ing officer  of  the  troops  of  the  United  States  to  be  directed  to 
co-operate. 

2.  To  apprise  the  Creek  nation  of  the  information  which  has 
been  received,  and  to  assure  them  that  the  United  States  will  co- 
operate with  them  to  prevent  the  intrusion,  in  the  first  instance,, 
and  afterwards  to  dispossess  the  intruders.  It  may,  perhaps,  be 
made  a  consideration  for  urging  them  to  run  the  line  of  the  last 
treaty. 

3.  To  mention  the  matter  informally  to  the  Spanish  com- 
missioners ;  expressing  the  disapprobation  of  the  government, 
and  its  intention  to  exert  all  the  measures  in  its  power  to  frus- 
trate the  enterprise. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  with  the  highest  respect,  &c. 


574  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  37. 


JAY  TO   HAMILTON. 

London,  July  18th,  1794. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

I  thank  you  for  the  printed  paper  you  sent  me,  and  for  your 
letter  by  Mons.  Cadignan.  On  maturely  considering  the  latter, 
I  took  an  opportunity,  in  an  informal  conversation  with  Lord 
Grenville,  to  communicate  it  to  him. 

Still,  I  am  unable  to  say  any  thing  decisive  relative  to  the  ob- 
jects of  my  mission.  Appearances  continue  to  be  singularly  favor- 
able ;  but  appearances  merit  only  a  certain  degree  of  circumspect 
reliance. 

The  delays  occasioned  by  the  new  arrangement  of  the  minis- 
try cannot  be  of  long  continuance.  Circumstances  must  soon 
constrain  them  to  form  some  ultimate  system  relative  to  the 
United  States ;  and  although  I  have  much  reason  to  hope  it 
will  be  favorable  to  our  wishes,  yet  I  confess  I  am  not  without 
apprehensions  that  certain  points,  not  by  us  to  be  yielded,  will 
occasion  difficulties  hard  to  surmount.  Personally,  I  have  every 
reason  to  be  satisfied,  and  officially,  I  have  as  yet  no  reason  to 
complain. 

Shortly  after  my  arrival,  I  dined  with  Lord  Grenville.  The 
cabinet  ministers  were  present,  but  not  a  single  foreigner.  On 
Monday  next  I  am  to  dine  with  the  Lord  Chancellor,  and  on 
next  Friday  with  Mr.  Pitt.  I  mention  these  facts  to  explain 
what  I  mean  by  favorable  appearances.  I  think  it  best  that  they 
should  remain  unmentioned,  for  the  present,  and  they  make  no 
part  of  my  communication  to  Mr.  Randolph  or  others.  This  is 
not  the  season  for  such  communications  ;  they  may  be  misinter- 
preted, though  not  by  you.  I  fear  the  posts  may  labor,  but  they 
must  not  be  left.  We  must  not  make  a  delusive  settlement,  that 
would  disunite  our  people,  and  leave  seeds  of  discord  to  germi- 
nate. I  will  do  every  thing  that  prudence  and  integrity  may 
dictate  and  permit ;  I  will  endeavor  to  accommodate  rather  than 
dispute  ;  and  if  this  plan  should  fail,  decent  and  firm  representa- 
tions must  conclude  the  business  of  my  mission.     As  yet;  I  do 


jEt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  575 

not  regret  any  step  that  I  have  taken.     I  wish  I  may  be  able  to 
say  the  same  thing  at  the  conclusion. 

Yours,  affectionately,  &c. 

August  5th. — This  letter  was  inadvertently  omitted  to  be  sent 
when  written.     Appearances  mend.     Give  us  a  fair  chance. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Treasury  Department,  August  2d,  1794. 

Sir: 

In  compliance  with  your  requisitions,  I  have  the  honor  to 
submit  my  opinion  as  to  the  course  which  it  will  be  advisable  for 
the  President  to  pursue  in  regard  to  the  armed  opposition  re- 
cently given  in  the  four  western  counties  of  Pennsylvania  to  the 
execution  of  the  laws  of  the  United  States,  laying  duties  upon 
spirits  distilled  within  the  United  States,  and  upon  stills. 

The  case  upon  which  an  opinion  is  required,  is  summarily  as 
follows.  The  four  most  western  counties  of  Pennsylvania  since  the 
commencement  of  those  laws,  a  period  of  more  than  three  years, 
have  been  in  steady  and  violent  opposition  to  them.  By  formal 
public  meetings  of  influential  individuals,  whose  resolutions  and 
proceedings  had  for  undisguised  objects  to  render  the  laws  odi- 
ous, to  discountenance  a  compliance  with  them,  and  to  intimi- 
date individuals  from  accepting  and  executing  offices  under 
them ;  by  a  general  spirit  of  opposition  (thus  fomented)  among 
the  inhabitants ;  by  repeated  instances  of  armed  parties  going  in 
disguise  to  the  houses  of  the  officers  of  the  revenue,  and  inflict- 
ing upon  them  personal  violence  and  outrage ;  by  general  com- 
binations to  forbear  a  compliance  with  the  requisitions  of  the 
laws  by  examples  of  injury  to  the  property  and  insult  to  the  per- 
sons of  individuals  who  have  shown  by  their  conduct  a  disposi- 
tion to  comply,  and  by  an  almost  universal  non-compliance  with 
the  laws ;  their  execution  within  the  counties  in  question  has 
been  completely  frustrated. 


576  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  37. 

Various  alterations  have  been  made  in  the  laws  by  the  legis- 
lature to  obviate,  as  far  as  possible,  the  objections  of  the  inhabit- 
ants of  those  counties. 

The  executive,  on  its  part,  has  been  far  from  deficient  in  for- 
bearance, lenity,  or  a  spirit  of  accommodation. 

But  neither  the  legislative  nor  the  executive  accommodations 
have  had  any  effect  in  producing  compliance  with  the  laws. 

The  opposition  has  continued  and  matured,  till  it  has  at  length 
broke  out  in  acts  which  are  presumed  to  amount  to  treason. 

Armed  collections  of  men,  with  the  avowed  design  of  oppos- 
ing the  execution  of  the  laws,  have  attacked  the  house  of  the 
Inspector  of  the  Revenue,  burnt  and  destroyed  his  property,  and 
shed  the  blood  of  persons  engaged  in  its  defence ;  have  made 
prisoner  of  the  marshal  of  the  district,  and  did  not  release  him, 
till  for  the  safety  of  his  life  he  stipulated  to  execute  no  more 
processes  within  the  disaffected  counties ;  have  compelled  both 
him  and  the  inspector  of  the  revenue  to  fly  the  country  by  a 
circuitous  route,  to  avoid  personal  injury,  perhaps  assassination; 
have  proposed  the  assembling  of  a  convention  of  delegates  from 
those  counties  and  the  neighboring  ones  of  Virginia,  probably 
with  a  view  to  systematize  measures  of  more  effectual  opposi- 
tion ;  have  forcibly  seized,  opened,  and  spoliated  a  mail  of  the 
United  States. 

What  in  this  state  of  things  is  proper  to  be  done?  The  Pre- 
sident has,  with  the  advice  of  the  Heads  of  Departments  and  the 
Attorney-General,  caused  to  be  submitted  all  the  evidence  of  the 
foregoing  facts  to  the  consideration  of  an  associate  judge,  under 
the  act  entitled,  "An  act  to  provide  for  calling  forth  the  militia 
to  execute  the  laws  of  the  Union,  suppress  insurrection,  and 
repel  invasion." 

If  the  judge  shall  pronounce  that  the  case  described  in  the 
second  section  of  that  act  exists,  it  will  follow  that  a  competent 
force  of  militia  should  be  called  forth  and  employed  to  suppress 
the  insurrection,  and  support  the  civil  authority  in  effectuating 
obedience  to  the  laws  and  the  puishment  of  offenders. 

It  appears  to  me  that  the  very  existence  of  government  de- 
mands this  course,  and  that  a  duty  of  the  highest  nature  urges 


vEt.37.]  cabinet   papers.  577 

the  Chief  Magistrate  to  pursue  it.     The  Constitution  and  laws  of 
the  United  States  contemplate  and  provide  for  it. 

What  force  of  militia  shall  be  called  out,  and  from  what 
State  or  States? 

The  force  ought,  if  attainable,  to  be  an  imposing  one,  such,  if 
practicable,  as  will  deter  from  opposition,  save  the  effusion  of  the 
blood  of  citizens,  and  serve  the  object  to  be  accomplished. 

The  quantum  must,  of  course,  be  regulated  by  the  resistance 
to  be  expected.  'Tis  computed  that  the  four  opposing  counties 
contain  upwards  of  sixteen  thousand  males  of  sixteen  years 
and  more,  that  of  these  about  seven  thousand  may  be  expected 
to  be  armed. 

'Tis  possible  that  the  union  of  the  neighboring  counties  of 
Virginia  may  augment  this  force.  'Tis  not  impossible  that  it 
may  receive  an  accession  from  some  adjacent  counties  of  this* 
State  on  this  side  of  the  Alleghany  mountains. 

To  be  prepared  for  the  worst,  I  am  of  opinion,  that  twelve 
thousand  militia  ought  to  be  ordered  to  assemble ;  9,000  foot  and 
3,000  horse.  I  should  not  propose  so  many  horse,  but  for  the 
probability  that  this  decription  of  militia  will  be  more  easily 
procured  for  the  service. 

From  what  State  or  States  shall  these  come  ? 

The  law  contemplates  that  the  militia  of  a  State,  in  which  an 
insurrection  happens,  if  willing  and  sufficient,  shall  first  be  em- 
ployed, but  gives  power  to  employ  the  militia  of  other  States  in 
the  case  either  of  refusal  or  insufficiency. 

The  Governor  of  Pennsylvania,  in  an  official  conference  this 
day,  gave  it  explicitly  as  his  opinion  to  the  President,  that  the 
militia  of  Pennsylvania  alone  would  be  found  incompetent  to  the 
suppression  of  the  insurrection. 

This  opinion  of  the  Chief  Magistrate  of  the  State,  is  presumed 
to  be  a  sufficient  foundation  for  calling  in,  in  the  first  instance, 
the  aid  of  the  militia  of  the  neighboring  States. 

I  would  submit,  then,  that  Pennsylvania  be  required  to  fur- 
nish 6,000  men,  of  whom  1,000  to  be  horse  ;  New  Jersey  2,000,. 
of  whom  800  to  be  horse ;  Maryland  2,000,  of  whom  (300  to  be 
horse;  Virginia  2,000,  of  whom  600  to  be  horse. 
D  37 


578  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  37. 

Or,  perhaps,  it  may  be  as  eligible  to  call  upon  each  State  for 
such  a  number  of  troops,  leaving  to  itself  the  proportion  of 
horse  and  foot  according  to  convenience.  The  militia  called  for  to 
rendezvous  at  Carlisle,  in  Pennsylvania,  and  Cumberland  Fort,  in 
Virginia,  on  the  10th  of  September  next.  The  law  requires  that 
previous  to  the  using  of  force,  a  Proclamation  shall  issue,  com- 
manding the  insurgents  to  disperse  and  return  peaceably  to  their 
respective  abodes  within  a  limited  time.  This  step  must,  of 
course,  be  taken. 

The  application  of  the  force  to  be  called  out  and  other  ulte- 
rior measures  must  depend  on  circumstances  as  they  shall  arise. 

With  the  most  perfect  respect,  &c. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Report  on  Opposition  to  Internal  Duties. 

Treasury  Department.  August  5th,  1794. 

Sir: 

The  disagreeable  crisis  at  which  matters  have  lately  arrived 
in  some  of  the  western  counties  of  Pennsvlvania,  with  regard  to 
the  law  laying  duties  on  spirits  distilled  within  the  United  States, 
and  on  stills,  seems  to  render  proper  a  review  of  the  circum- 
stances which  have  attended  those  laws  in  that  scene  from  their 
commencement  to  the  present  time,  and  of  the  conduct  which 
has  hitherto  been  observed  on  the  part  of  the  government,  its 
motives  and  effect,  in  order  to  a  better  judgment  of  the  measures 
necessary  to  be  pursued  in  the  existing  emergency. 

The  opposition  to  those  laws  in  the  four  most  western  coun- 
ties of  Pennsylvania,  (Alleghany,  Washington,  Fayette,  and 
Westmoreland,)  commenced  as  early  as  they  were  known  to  have 
been  passed.  It  has  continued  with  different  degrees  of  violence, 
in  the  different  counties,  and  at  different  periods,  but  Washington 
has  uniformly  distinguished  its  resistance  by  a  more  excessive 
spirit  than  has  appeared  in  the  other  counties,  and  seems  to  have 


iEi.  37.]  cabinet  papers.  579 

been   chiefly  instrumental  in  kindling  and  keeping  alive  the 
flame. 

The  opposition  first  manifested  itself  in  the  milder  shape  of 
the  circulation  of  opinions  unfavorable  to  the  law,  and  calcu- 
lated by  the  influence  of  public  disesteem  to  discourage  the 
accepting  or  holding  of  offices  under  it,  or  the  complying  with  it 
by  those  who  might  be  so  disposed,  to  which  was  added  the  show 
of  a  discontinuance  of  the  business  of  distilling. 

These  expedients  were  shortly  after  succeeded  by  private 
associations  to  forbear  compliances  with  the  law.  But  it  was  not 
long  before  these  more  negative  modes  of  opposition  were  per- 
ceived to  be  likely  to  prove  ineffectual.  And  in  proportion  as 
this  was  the  case,  and  as  the  means  of  introducing  the  laws  into 
operation  were  put  into  execution,  the  disposition  to  resistance 
became  more  turbulent  and  more  inclined  to  adopt  and  practice 
violent  expedients.  The  officers  now  began  to  experience  marks 
of  contempt  and  insult.  Threats  against  them  became  more 
frequent  and  loud ;  and  after  some  time  these  threats  were 
ripened  into  acts  of  ill  treatment  and  outrage. 

These  acts  of  violence  were  preceded  by  certain  meetings  of 
malcontent  persons,  who  entered  into  resolutions  calculated  at 
once  to  confirm,  inflame,  and  systematize  the  spirit  of  opposition. 

The  first  of  these  meetings  was  holden  at  a  place  called  Eed 
Stone  Old  Fort,  on  the  27th  of  July,  1791,  where  it  was  concert- 
ed that  county  committees  should  be  convened  in  the  four  coun- 
ties, at  the  respective  seats  of  justice  therein.  On  the  23d  of 
August  following,  one  of  these  committees  assembled  in  the 
county  of  Washington. 

This  meeting  passed  some  intemperate  resolutions,  which 
were  afterwards  printed  in  the  Pittsburgh  Gazette,  containing  a 
strong  censure  on  the  law,  declaring  that  any  person  who  had  ac- 
cepted or  might  accept  an  office  under  Congress,  in  order  to  carry  it 
into  effect,  should  be  considered  as  inimical  to  the  interests  of  the  coun- 
try;  and  recommending  to  the  citizens  of  Washington  county  to 
treat  every  person  who  had  accepted  or  might  thereafter  accept 
any  such  office,  with  contempt,  and  absolutely  to  refuse  all  kind 
of  communication  or  intercourse  with  the  officers,  and  to  with- 
hold from  them  all  aid,  support,  or  comfort. 


580  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  37. 

Not  content  with  this  vindictive  proscription  of  those,  who 
might  esteem  it  their  duty,  in  the  capacity  of  officers,  to  aid  in 
the  execution  of  the  constitutional  laws  of  the  land,  the  meeting 
proceeded  to  accumulate  topics  of  crimination  of  the  govern- 
ment, though  foreign  to  each  other,  authorizing  by  this  zeal  for 
censure,  a  suspicion  that  they  were  actuated,  not  merely  by  the 
dislike  of  a  particular  law,  but  by  a  disposition  to  render  the 
government  itself  unpopular  and  odious. 

This  meeting,  in  further  prosecution  of  their  plan,  deputed 
three  of  their  members  to  meet  delegates  from  the  counties  of 
Westmoreland,  Fayette,  and  Alleghany,  on  the  first  Tuesday  of 
September  following,  for  the  purpose  of  expressing  the  sense  of 
the  people  of  those  counties,  in  an  address  to  the  Legislature  of 
the  United  States  upon  the  subject  of  the  excise  law  and  other 
grievances. 

Another  meeting  accordingly  took  place  on  the  7th  of  Sep- 
tember, 1791,  at  Pittsburgh,  in  the  county  of  Alleghany,  at 
which  there  appeared  persons  in  the  character  of  delegates  from 
the  four  western  counties. 

This  meeting  entered  into  resolutions  more  comprehensive  in 
their  objects,  and  not  less  inflammatory  in  their  tendency,  than 
those  which  had  before  passed  the  meeting  in  Washington. 

Their  resolutions  contained  severe  censures,  not  only  on  the 
law  which  was  the  immediate  subject  of  objection,  but  upon  what 
they  termed  the  exorbitant  salaries  of  officers,  the  unreasonable 
interest  of  the  public  debt,  the  want  of  discrimination  between 
original  holders  and  transferees,  and  the  institution  of  a  national 
bank.  The  same  unfriendly  temper  towards  the  government  of 
the  United  States,  which  seemed  to  have  led  out  of  their  way 
the  meeting  at  Washington,  appears  to  have  produced  a  similar 
wandering  in  that  at  Pittsburgh. 

A  representation  to  Congress,  and  a  remonstrance  to  the  le- 
gislature of  Pennsylvania  against  the  law  more  particularly  com- 
plained of,  were  prepared  by  this  meeting,  published  together 
with  the  other  proceedings  in  the  Pittsburgh  Gazette,  and  after- 
wards presented  to  the  respective  bodies  to  whom  they  were 
addressed. 


i£<r.37.3  CABINET    PAPERS.  581 

These  meetings,  composed  of  very  influential  individuals, 
and  conducted  without  moderation  or  prudence,  are  justly  charge- 
able with  the  excesses  which  have  been  from  time  to  time  com- 
mitted ;  serving  to  give  consistency  to  an  opposition  which  has 
at  length  matured  to  a  point  that  threatens  the  foundations  of  the 
government  and  of  the  Union,  unless  speedily  and  effectually 
subdued. 

On  the  6th  of  the  same  month  of  September,  the  opposition 
broke  out  in  an  aet  of  violence  upon  the  person  and  property  of 
Bobert  Johnson,  collector  of  the  revenues  for  the  counties  of  Al- 
leghany and  Washington. 

A  party  of  men,  armed  and  disguised,  waylaid  him  at  a  place 
on  Pidgeon  Creek,  in  Washington  county,  seized,  tarred  and 
feathered,  him,  cut  off  his  hair,  and  deprived  him  of  his  horse, 
obliging  him  to  travel  on  foot  a  considerable  distance  in  that 
mortifying  and  painful  situation. 

The  case  was  brought  before  the  District  Court  of  Pennsvl- 
vania,  out  of  which  processes  issued  against  John  Eobertson, 
John  Hamilton,  and  Thomas  McComb,  three  of  the  persons  con- 
cerned in  the  outrage. 

The  serving  of  these  processes  was  confided  by  the  then  mar- 
shal, Clement  Biddle,  to  his  deputy,  Joseph  Fox,  who  in  the  month 
of  October  went  into  Alleghany  county  for  the  purpose  of 
serving  them. 

The  appearances  and  circumstances  which  Mr.  Fox  observed 
himself,  in  the  course  of  his  journey,  and  learnt  afterwards,  upon 
his  arrival  at  Pittsburgh,  had  the  effect  of  deterring  him  from 
the  service  of  the  processes,  and  unfortunately  led  to  adopt  the 
injudicious  and  fruitless  expedient  of  sending  them  to  the  parties 
by  a  private  messenger  under  cover. 

The  deputy's  report  to  the  marshal  states  a  number  of  partic- 
ulars evincing  a  considerable  fermentation  in  the  part  of  the 
country  to  which  he  was  sent,  and  inducing  a  belief  on  his  part, 
that  he  could  not  with  safety  have  executed  the  processes.  The 
marshal,  transmitting  this  report  to  the  district  attorney,  makes 
the  following  observations  upon  it:  "I  am  sorry  to  add,  that  he 
(the  deputy)  found  the  people  in  general  in  the  western  part  of 


582  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  37. 

the  State,  and  particularly  beyond  the  Alleghany  mountains,  in 
such  a  ferment  on  account  of  the  act  of  Congress  for  laying  a 
duty  on  distilled  spirits,  and  so  much  opposed  to  the  execution 
of  the  said  act,  and  from  a  variety  of  threats  to  himself  person- 
ally, although  he  took  the  utmost  precaution  to  conceal  his  er- 
rand, that  he  was  not  only  convinced  of  the  impossibility  of 
serving  the  process,  but  that  any  attempt  to  effect  it  would  have 
occasioned  the  most  violent  opposition  from  the  greater  part  of 
the  inhabitants ;  and  he  declares  that  if  he  had  attempted  it,  he 
believes  he  should  not  have  returned  alive.  I  spared  no  expense 
nor  pains  to  have  the  process  of  the  court  executed,  and  have  not 
the  least  doubt  that  my  deputy  would  have  accomplished  it,  if  it 
could  have  been  done." 

The  reality  of  the  danger  to  the  deputy  was  countenanced  by 
the  opinion  of  General  Neville,  the  inspector  of  the  revenue,  a 
man  who  before  had  given,  and  since  has  given,  numerous  proofs 
of  a  steady  and  firm  temper.  And  what  followed  is  a  further 
confirmation  of  it.  The  person  who  had  been  sent  with  the  pro- 
cesses was  seized,  whipped,  tarred  and  feathered,  and  after  having 
his  money  and  horse  taken  from  him,  was  blindfolded  and  tied 
in  the  woods,  in  which  condition  he  remained  five  hours. 

Yery  serious  reflections  naturally  occurred  upon  this  occasion. 
It  seemed  highly  probable,  from  the  issue  of  the  experiment 
which  had  been  made,  that  the  ordinary  course  of  civil  process 
would  be  ineffectual  for  enforcing  the  execution  of  the  law  in 
the  scene  in  question,  and  that  a  perseverance  in  this  course 
might  lead  to  a  serious  concussion.  The  law  itself  was  still  in 
the  infancy  of  its  operation,  and  far  from  established  in  other 
important  portions  of  the  Union.  Prejudices  against  it  had  been 
industriously  disseminated,  misrepresentations  diffused,,  miscon- 
ceptions fostered.  The  legislature  of  the  United  States  had  not 
yet  organized  the  means  by  which  the  Executive  could  come  in 
aid  of  the  Judiciary,  when  found  incompetent  to  the  execution 
of  the  laws.  If  neither  of  these  impediments  to  a  decisive  exer- 
tion had  existed,  it  was  desirable,  especially  in  a  republican  gov- 
ernment, to  avoid  what  is  in  such  cases  the  ultimate  resort,  till 
all  the  milder  means  had  been  tried  without  success.  . 


jEt.37.]  cabinet   papers.  583 

Under  the  united  influence  of  these  considerations,  it  ap- 
peared advisable  to  forbear  urging  coercive  measures,  until  the 
laws  had  gone  into  more  extensive  operation,  till  further  time  for 
reflection  and  experience  of  its  operation  had  served  to  correct 
false  impressions  and  inspire  greater  moderation,  and  till  the 
legislature  had  had  an  opportunity,  by  a  revision  of  the  law,  to 
remove  as  far  as  possible  objections,  and  to  reinforce  the  pro- 
visions for  securing  its  execution. 

Other  incidents  occurred  from  time  to  time,  which  are  further 
proofs  of  the  very  improper  temper  that  prevailed  among  the  in- 
habitants of  the  refractory  counties. 

Mr.  Johnson  was  not  the  only  officer  who  about  the  same 
period  experienced  outrage.  Mr.  Wells,  collector  of  the  revenue 
for  Westmoreland  and  Fayette,  was  also  ill-treated  at  Greens- 
burgh  and  Union  Town ;  nor  were  the  outrages  perpetrated  con- 
fined to  the  officers ;  they  extended  to  private  citizens  who  only 
dared  to  show  their  respect  for  the  laws  of  their  country. 

Some  time  in  October,  1791,  an  unhappy  man  of  the  name  of 
Wilson,  a  stranger  in  the  county,  and  manifestly  disordered  in 
his  intellects,  imagining  himself  to  be  a  collector  of  the  revenue, 
or  invested  with  some  trust  in  relation  to  it,  was  so  unlucky  as 
to  make  inquiries  concerning  distillers  who  had  entered  their 
stills,  giving  out  that  he  was  to  travel  through  the  United  States, 
to  ascertain  and  report  to  Congress  the  number  of  stills,  &c. 
This  man  was  pursued  by  a  party  in  disguise,  taken  out  of  his 
bed,  carried  about  five  miles  back  to  a  smith's  shop,  stripped  of 
his  clothes,  which  were  afterwards  burnt,  and,  after  having  been 
himself  inhumanly  burnt  in  several  places  with  a  heated  iron,  was 
tarred  and  feathered,  and  about  daylight  dismissed — naked, 
wounded,  and  otherwise  in  a  very  suffering  condition.  These 
particulars  are  communicated  in  a  letter  from  the  inspector  of  the 
revenue,  of  the  17th  of  November,  who  declares  that  he  had 
then  himself  seen  the  unfortunate  maniac,  the  abuse  of  whom,  as 
he  expresses  it,  exceeded  description,  and  was  suiheient  to  make 
human  nature  shudder.  The  affair  is  the  more  extraordinary,  as 
persons  of  weight  and  consideration  in  that  county  are  under- 
stood to  have  been  actors  in  it,  and  as  the  symptoms  of  insanity 


584  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  37. 

were,  during  the  whole  time  of  inflicting  the  punishment,  appa- 
rent— the  unhappy  sufferer  displaying  the  heroic  fortitude  of  a 
man  who  conceived  himself  to  be  a  martyr  to  the  discharge  of 
some  important  duty. 

Not  long  after,  a  person  of  the  name  of  Koseberry  underwent 
the  humiliating  punishment  of  tarring  and  feathering,  with  some 
aggravations,  for  having  in  conversation  hazarded  the  very 
natural  and  just  but  unpalatable  remark,  that  the  inhabitants  of 
that  county  could  not  reasonably  expect  protection  from  a  gov- 
ernment whose  laws  they  so  strenuously  opposed. 

The  audacity  of  the  perpetrators  of  those  excesses  was  so 
great,  that  an  armed  banditti  ventured  to  seize  and  carry  off  two 
persons  who  were  witnesses  against  the  rioters  in  the  case  of 
Wilson,  in  order  to  prevent  their  giving  testimony  of  the  riot  to 
a  court  then  sitting,  or  about  to  sit. 

Designs  of  personal  violence  against  the  inspector  of  the 
revenue  himself,  to  force  him  to  a  resignation,  were  repeatedly 
attempted  to  be  put  in  execution  by  armed  parties,  but  by  differ- 
ent circumstances  were  frustrated. 

In  the  session  of  Congress  which  commenced  in  October, 
1791,  the  law  laying  a  duty  on  distilled  spirits  and  stills  came 
under  the  revision  of  Congress,  as  had  been  anticipated.  By  an 
act  passed  May  8th,  1792,  during  that  session,  material  altera- 
tions were  made  in  it.  Among  these  the  duty  was  reduced  to  a 
rate  so  moderate  as  to  have  silenced  complaint  on  that  head ;  and 
a  new  and  very  favorable  alternative  was  given  to  the  distiller, 
that  of  paying  a  monthly  instead  of  a  yearly  rate,  according  to 
the  capacity  of  his  still,  with  liberty  to  take  a  license  for  the  pre- 
cise term  which  he  should  intend  to  work  it,  and  to  renew  that 
license  for  a  further  term  or  terms.  This  amending  act,  in  its 
progress  through  the  legislature,  engaged  the  particular  attention 
of  members  who  themselves  were  interested  in  distilleries,  and  of 
others  who  represented  parts  of  the  county  in  which  the  business 
of  distilling  was  extensively  carried  on. 

Objections  were  well  considered,  and  great  pains  taken  to 
obviate  all  such  as  had  the  semblance  of  reasonableness. 

The  effect  has  in  a  great  measure   corresponded  with  the 


JEt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  585 

views  of  the  legislature.  Opposition  has  subsided  in  several 
districts  where  it  before  prevailed ;  and  it  was  natural  to  enter- 
tain and  not  easy  to  abandon  a  hope  that  the  same  thing  would 
by  degrees  have  taken  place  in  the  four  western  counties  of  this 
State.  But,  notwithstanding  some  flattering  appearances  at  par- 
ticular junctures,  and  infinite  pains  by  various  expedients  to 
produce  the  desirable  issue,  the  hope  entertained  has  never  been 
realized,  and  is  now  at  an  end,  as  far  as  the  ordinary  means  of 
executing  laws  are  concerned. 

The  first  law  had  left  the  number  and  positions  of  the 
officers  of  inspection,  which  were  to  be  established  in  each  dis- 
trict for  receiving  entries  of  stills,  to  the  discretion  of  the  super- 
visor. The  second,  to  secure  a  due  accommodation  to  distillers, 
provides  peremptorily  that  there  shall  be  one  in  each  county. 

The  idea  was  immediately  embraced,  that  it  was  a  very  im- 
portant point  in  the  scheme  of  opposition  to  the  law,  to  prevent 
the  establishment  of  offices  in  the  respective  counties.  For  this 
purpose  the  intimidation  of  well-disposed  inhabitants  was  added 
to  the  plan  of  molesting  and  obstructing  the  officers  by  force  or 
otherwise,  as  might  be  necessary.  So  effectually  was  the  first 
point  carried  (the  certain  destruction  of  property,  and  the  peril 
of  life  being  involved),  that  it  became  almost  impracticable  to 
obtain  suitable  places  for  offices  in  some  of  the  counties,  and 
when  obtained,  it  was  found  a  matter  of  necessity,  in  almost 
every  instance,  to  abandon  them. 

After  much  effort,  the  inspector  of  the  revenue  succeeded  in 
procuring  the  house  of  William  Faulkner,  a  captain  in  the  army, 
for  an  office  of  inspection  in  the  county  of  Washington.  This 
took  place  in  August,  1792.  The  office  was  attended  by  the  in- 
spector of  the  revenue  in  person,  till  prevented  by  the  following 
incidents. 

Captain  Faulkner,  being  in  pursuit  of  some  deserters  from 
the  troops,  was  encountered  by  a  number  of  people  in  the  same 
neighborhood  where  Mr.  Johnson  had  been  ill-treated  the  pre- 
ceding year,  who  reproached  him  with  letting  his  house  for  an 
office  of  inspection,  drew  a  knife  upon  him,  threatened  to  scalp 
him,  tar  and  feather  him,  and  reduce  his  house  and  property  to 


586  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  37. 

ashes,  if  he  did  not  solemnly  promise  to  prevent  the  further  use 
of  his  house  for  an  office.  Capt.  Faulkner  was  induced  to  make 
the  promise  exacted,  and,  in  consequence  of  the  circumstance, 
wrote  a  letter  to  the  inspector,  dated  the  20th  of  August,  coun- 
termanding the  permission  for  using  his  house,  and  the  day  fol- 
lowing gave  a  public  notice  in  the  Pittsburgh  Gazette,  that  the 
office  of  inspection  should  be  no  longer  kept  there. 

At  the  same  time  another  engine  of  opposition  was  in  opera- 
tion. Agreeable  to  a  previous  notification,  there  met  at  Pitts- 
burgh, on  the  21st  of  August,  a  number  of  persons  styling 
themselves  "A  Meeting  of  sundry  Inhabitants  of  the  Western 
Counties  of  Pennsylvania." 

This  meeting  entered  into  resolutions  not  less  exceptionable 
than  those  of  its  predecessors.  The  preamble  suggested  that  a 
tax  on  spirituous  liquors  is  unjust  in  itself,  and  oppressive  upon 
the  poor, — that  internal  taxes  upon  consumption,  must  in  the  end 
destroy  the  liberties  of  every  country  in  which  they  are  intro- 
duced— that  the  law  in  question,  from  certai  n  local  circumstances 
which  are  specified,  would  bring  immediate  distress  and  ruin 
upon  the  western  country,  and  concludes  with  the  sentiment, 
that  they  think  it  their  duty  to  persist  in  remonstrances  to  Con- 
gress, and  in  every  other  legal  measure,  that  may  obstruct  the 
operation  of  the  law. 

The  resolutions  then  proceed,  first,  to  appoint  a  committee  to 
prepare  and  cause  to  be  presented  to  Congress  an  address,  stating 
objections  to  the  law,  and  praying  for  its  repeal.  Secondly,  to 
appoint  committees  of  correspondence  for  Washington,  Fayette, 
and  Alleghany,  charged  to  correspond  together,  and  with  such 
committee  as  should  be  appointed  for  the  same  purpose  in  the 
county  of  Westmoreland,  or  with  any  committees  of  a  simi- 
lar nature  that  might  be  appointed  in  other  parts  of  the 
United  States  ;  and  also,  if  found  necessary,  to  call  together  either 
general  meetings  of  the  people,  in  their  respective  counties,  or 
conferences  of  the  several  committees  ;  and  lastly,  to  declare  that 
they  will,  in  future,  consider  those  who  hold  offices  for  the  col- 
lection of  the  duty,  as  unworthy  of  their  friendship,  that  they 
will  have  no  intercourse  nor  dealings  with  them,  will  withdraw  from 


^t.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  587 

them  every  assistance,  withhold  all  the  comforts  of  life  which  depend 
upon  those  duties  that  as  men  and  fellow-citizens  we  owe  to  each  oilier, 
and  will  upon  all  occasions  treat  them  with  contempt,  earnestly  RE- 
COMMENDING IT  TO  THE  PEOPLE  AT  LARGE  TO  FOLLOW  THE 
SAME   LINE    OF   CONDUCT   TOWARDS  THEM. 

The  idea  of  pursuing  legal  measures  to  obstruct  the  operation 
of  a  law,  needs  little  comment.  Legal  measures  may  be  pursued 
to  procure  the  repeal  of  a  law,  but  to  obstruct  its  operation,  pre- 
sents a  contradiction  in  terms.  The  operation,  or  what  is  the 
same  thing,  the  execution  of  a  law,  cannot  be  obstructed  after  it 
has  been  constitutionally  enacted,  without  illegality  and  crime. 
The  expression  quoted  is  one  of  those  phrases  which  can  only  be 
used  to  conceal  a  disorderly  and  culpable  intention  under  forms 
that  may  escape  the  hold  of  the  law. 

Neither  was  it  difficult  to  perceive,  that  the  anathema  pro- 
nounced against  the  officers  of  the  revenue,  placed  them  in  a 
state  of  virtual  outlawry,  and  operated  as  a  signal  to  all  those 
who  were  bold  enough  to  encounter  the  guilt  and  the  danger  to 
violate  both  their  lives  and  their  properties. 

The  foregoing  proceedings,  as  soon  as  known,  were  reported 
by  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  to  the  President.  The  Presi- 
dent, on  the  15th  of  September,  1792,  issued  a  proclamation, 
"  earnestly  admonishing  and  exhorting  all  persons  whom  it  might 
concern,  to  refrain  and  desist  from  all  unlawful  combinations 
and  proceedings  whatsoever,  having  for  object,  or  tending  to  ob- 
struct the  operation  of  the  laws  aforesaid,  inasmuch  as  all  law- 
ful ways  and  means  would  be  put  in  execution  for  bringing  to 
justice  the  infractors  thereof,  and  securing  obedience  thereto: 
and  moreover,  charging  and  requiring  all  courts,  magistrates  and 
officers  whom  it  might  concern,  according  to  the  duties  of  their 
several  offices,  to  exert  the  powers  in  them  respectively  vested 
bylaw,  for  the  purposes  aforesaid:  thereby  also  enjoining  and 
requiring  all  persons  whomsoever,  as  they  tendered  the  welfare 
of  their  country,  the  just  and  due  authority  of  government,  and 
the  preservation  of  the  public  peace,  to  be  aiding  and  assisting 
therein  according  to  law ;"  and  likewise  directed  that  prosecu- 
tions might  be  instituted  against  the  offenders  in  the  cases,  in 


588  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mi.  37. 

which  the  laws  would  support,  and  the  requisite  evidence  could 
be  obtained. 

Pursuant  to  these  instructions,  the  Attorney- General,  in  co- 
operation with  the  attorney  of  the  district,  attended  a  circuit 
court  which  was  holden  at  Yorktown,  in  October,  1792,  for  the 
purpose  of  bringing  forward  prosecutions  in  the  proper  cases. 

Collateral  measures  were  taken  to  procure  for  this  purpose 
the  necessary  evidence. 

The  supervisor  of  the  revenue  was  sent  into  the  opposing 
survey — to  ascertain  the  real  state  of  that  survey — to  obtain  evi- 
dence of  the  persons  who  were  concerned  in  the  riot  in  Faulk- 
ner's case,  and  of  those  who  composed  the  meeting  at  Pittsburgh, 
to  uphold  the  confidence  and  encourage  the  perseverance  of  the 
officers  acting  under  the  law,  and  to  induce,  if  possible,  the  in- 
habitants of  that  part  of  the  survey  which  appeared  least  disin- 
clined to  come  voluntarily  into  the  law  by  arguments  addressed 
to  their  sense  of  duty,  and  exhibiting  the  eventual  dangers  and 
mischiefs  of  resistance. 

The  mission  of  the  supervisor  had  no  other  fruit  than  that  of 
obtaining  evidence  of  the  persons  who  composed  the  meeting  at 
Pittsburgh,  and  of  two  who  were  understood  to  be  concerned  in 
the  riot;  and  a  confirmation  of  the  enmity-  which  certain  active 
and  designing  leaders  had  industriously  infused  into  a  large  pro- 
portion of  the  inhabitants,  not  against  the  particular  laws  in 
question  only,  but  of  a  more  ancient  date,  against  the  govern- 
ment of  the  United  States  itself. 

The  then  Attorney-General  being  of  opinion  that  it  was  at 
best  a  doubtful  point  whether  the  proceedings  of  the  meeting  at 
Pittsburgh  contained  indictable  matter,  no  prosecution  was  at- 
tempted against  those  who  composed  it,  though,  if  the  ground 
for  proceeding  against  them  had  appeared  to  be  firm,  it  is  pre- 
sumed that  the  truest  policy  would  have  dictated  that  course. 

Indictments  were  preferred  to  the  circuit  court,  and  found 
against  the  two  persons  understood  to  have  been  concerned  in 
the  riot,  and  the  usual  measures  were  taken  for  carrying  them 
into  effect. 

But  it  appearing  afterwards  from  various  representations  sup- 


J&t.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  589 

ported  by  satisfactory  testimony,  that  there  had  been  some  mis- 
take as  to  the  persons  accused,  justice  and  policy  demanded  that 
the  prosecutions  should  be  discontinued,  which  was  accordingly 
done. 

This  issue  of  the  business  unavoidably  defeated  the  attempt 
to  establish  examples  of  the  punishment  of  persons  who  engaged 
in  a  violent  resistance  of  the  laws,  and  left  the  officers  to  strug- 
gle against  the  stream  of  resistance  without  the  advantage  of 
such  examples. 

The  following  plan,  afterwards  successively  put  in  execution^ 
was  about  this  time  digested,  for  carrying,,  if  possible,  the  laws 
into  effect  without  the  necessity  of  recurring  to  force. 

1.  To  prosecute  delinquents  in  the  cases  in  which  it  could  be 
clearly  done  for  non-compliance  with  the  laws.  2.  To  intercept 
the  markets  for  the  surplus  produce  of  the  distilleries  of  the  non- 
complying  counties  by  seizing  the  spirits  on  their  way  to  those 
markets  in  places  where  it  could  be  effected  without  opposition. 
3.  By  purchases  through  agents,  for  the  use  of  the  army,  (instead 
of  deriving  the  supply  through  contracts  as  formerly,)  confining 
them  to  spirits,  in  respect  to  which  there  had  been  a  compliance 
with  the  laws. 

The  motives  to  this  plan  speak  for  themselves.    It  aimed,  be- 
sides the  influence  of  penalties  on  delinquents,  at  making  it  the 
general  interest  of  the  distillers  to  comply  with  the  laws,  by  in- 
terrupting the  market  for  a  very  considerable  surplus,  and  by  at 
the  same  time  confining  the  benefit  of  the  large  demand  for 
public  service  to  those  who  did  their  duty  to  the  public,  and  fur- 
nishing through  the  means  of  payment  in  cash,  that  medium  for 
paying  the  duties,  the  want  of  which  was  alleged  to  be  a  great 
difficulty  in  the  way  of  compliance.     But  two  circumstances  con- 
spired to  counteract  the  success  of  the  plan ;  one  the  necessity 
towards  incurring  the  penalties  of  non-compliance,  of  there  being 
an  officer  of  inspection  in  each  county,  which  was  prevented  in 
some  of  the  counties  by  means  of  the  intimidation  practised  for 
that  purpose.     Another,  the  non-extension  of  the  law  to  the  ter- 
ritory north-west  of  the  Ohio,  into  which  a  large  proportion  of 
the  surplus  before  mentioned  was  sent.     A  cure  for  these  defects 


590  HAMITLON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  37. 

could  only  come  from  the  legislature.  Accordingly,  in  the  ses- 
sion which  began  in  November,  1792,  measures  were  taken  for 
procuring  a  further  revision  of  the  laws.  A  bill  containing 
amendments  of  those  and  other  defects,  was  brought  in ;  but  it 
so  happened,  that  this  object,  by  reason  of  more  urgent  business, 
was  deferred  till  towards  the  close  of  the  session,  and  finally 
went  off  through  the  usual  hurry  of  that  period. 

The  continuance  of  the  embarrassment  incident  to  this  state 
of  things,  naturally  tended  to  diminish  much  of  the  efficacy  of 
the  plan  which  had  been  devised.  Yet  it  was  resolved,  as  far  as 
legal  provisions  would  bear  out  the  officers,  to  pursue  it  with 
perseverance.  There  was  ground  to  entertain  hopes  of  its  good 
effects ;  and  it  was  certainly  the  most  likely  course  which  could 
have  been  adopted  towards  attaining  the  objects  of  the  laws,  by 
means  short  of  force ;  evincing  unequivocally  the  sincere  dispo- 
sition to  avoid  this  painful  resort,  and  the  steady  moderation 
which  has  characterized  the  measures  of  the  government. 

In  pursuance  of  this  plan,  prosecutions  were  occasionally  in- 
stituted in  the  mildest  forms,  seizures  were  made,  as  opportuni- 
ties occurred  ;  and  purchases  on  public  account  were  carried  on. 

It  may  be  incidentally  remarked,  that  these  purchases  were 
extended  to  other  places ;  where,  though  the  same  disorders  did 
not  exist,  it  appeared  advisable  to  facilitate  the  payment  of  the 
duties  by  this  species  of  accommodation. 

Nor  was  this  plan,  notwithstanding  the  deficiency  of  legal 
provision,  which  impeded  its  full  execution,  without  correspond- 
ing effects.  Symptoms  from  time  to  time  appeared  which  au- 
thorized expectations,  that  with  the  aid,  at  another  session,  of 
the  desired  supplementary  provisions,  it  was  capable  of  accom- 
plishing its  end,  if  no  extraordinary  events  occurred. 

The  opponents  of  the  laws,  not  insensible  of  the  tendency  of 
that  plan,  nor  of  the  defects  in  the  laws  which  interfered  with  it, 
did  not  fail  from  time  to  time  to  pursue  analogous  modes  of 
counteraction.  The  effort  to  frustrate  the  establishment  of 
offices  of  inspection,  in  particular,  was  persisted  in,  and  even 
increased.  Means  of  intimidating  officers  and  others,  continued 
to  be  exerted. 


iEx.37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  591 

In  April,  1793,  a  party  of  armed  men  in  disguise  made  an 
attack  in  the  night  upon  the  house  of  a  collector  of  revenue,  who 
resided  in  Fayette  county,  but  he  happening  to  be  from  home, 
they  contented  themselves  with  breaking  open  his  house,  threat- 
ening, terrifying,  and  abusing  his  family. 

Warrants  were  issued  for  apprehending  some  of  the  rioters 
upon  this  occasion,  by  Isaac  Mason  and  James  Findlay,  assistant 
judges  of  Fayette  county,  which  were  delivered  to  the  sheriff  of 
that  county,  who,  it  seems,  refused  to  execute  them,  for  which 
he  has  since  been  indicted. 

This  is  at  once  an  example  of  the  disposition  to  support  the 
laws  of  the  Union,  and  of  an  opposite  one,  in  the  local  officers 
of  Pennsylvania,  within  the  non-complying  scene.  But  it  is  a 
truth  too  important  not  to  be  noticed,  and  too  injurious  not  to 
be  lamented,  that  the  prevailing  spirit  of  those  officers  has  been 
either  hostile  or  lukewarm  to  the  execution  of  those  laws ;  and 
that  the  weight  of  an  unfriendly  official  influence  has  been  one  of 
the  most  serious  obstacles  with  which  they  have  had  to  struggle. 

In  June  following,  the  inspector  of  the  revenue  was  burnt  in 
effigy  in  Alleghany  county,  at  a  place  and  on  a  day  of  some 
public  election,  with  much  display,  in  the  presence  of  and  with- 
out interruption  from  magistrates  and  other  public  officers. 

On  the  night  of  the  22d  of  November,  another  party  of  men, 
some  of  them  armed,  and  all  in  disguise,  went  to  the  house  of  the 
same  collector  of  Fayette  which  had  been  visited  in  April,  broke 
and  entered  it,  and  demanded  a  surrender  of  the  officer's  com- 
mission and  official  books.  Upon  his  refusing  to  deliver  them 
up,  they  presented  pistols  at  him,  and  swore  that  if  he  did  not 
comply  they  would  instantly  put  him  to  death.  At  length  a 
surrender  of  the  commission  and  books  were  enforced.  But  not 
content  with  this,  the  rioters,  before  they  departed,  required  of 
the  officer  that  he  should,  within  two  weeks,  publish  his  resig- 
nation on  pain  of  another  such  visit  and  a  destruction  of  his 
house. 

Notwithstanding  these  excesses,  the  laws  appeared  during  the 
latter  periods  of  this  year  to  be  rather  gaining  ground.  Several 
principal  distillers,  who  had  formerly  held  out,  complied,  and 


592  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  37. 

others  discovered  a  disposition  to  comply,  which  was  only  re- 
strained by  the  fear  of  violence. 

But  these  favorable  circumstances  served  to  beget  alarm, 
among  those  who  were  determined,  at  all  events,  to  prevent  the 
quiet  establishment  of  the  laws.  It  soon  appeared  that  they 
meditated,  by  fresh  and  greater  excesses,  to  aim  a  still  more 
effectual  blow  at  them — to  subdue  the  growing  spirit  of  com- 
pliance, and  to  destroy  entirely  the  organs  of  the  laws,  within 
that  part  of  the  country,  by  compelling  all  the  officers  to  renounce 
their  offices. 

The  last  proceeding  in  the  case  of  the  collector  of  Fayette, 
was  in  this  spirit. 

In  January,  of  the  present  year,  further  violences  appear  to 
have  been  perpetrated.  William  Richmond,  who  had  given 
information  against  some  of  the  rioters  in  the  affair  of  Wilson, 
had  his  barn  burnt  with  all  the  grain  and  hay  which  it  contained 
— and  the  same  thing  happened  to  Robert  Shawhair,  a  distiller, 
who  had  been  among  the  first  to  comply  with  the  law,  and  who 
had  always  spoken  favorably  of  it.  But  in  neither  of  these  in- 
stances (which  happened  in  the  county  of  Alleghany),  though 
the  presumptions  were  violent,  was  any  positive  proof  ob- 
tained. 

The  inspector  of  the  revenue,  in  a  letter  of  the  27th  of  Feb- 
ruary, writes,  that  he  had  received  information  that  persons 
living  near  the  dividing  line  of  Alleghany  and  Washington,,  had 
thrown  out  threats  of  tarring  and  feathering  one  William 
Cochran,  a  complying  distiller,  of  burning  his  distillery — and 
that  it  had  also  been  given  out,  that  in  three  weeks,  there  would 
not  be  a  house  standing  in  Alleghany  county,  of  any  person  who 
had  complied  with  the  laws  ; — in  consequence  of  which,  he  had 
been  induced  to  pay  a  visit  to  several  leading  individuals  in  that 
quarter,  as  well  to  ascertain  the  truth  of  the  information,  as  to> 
endeavor  to  avert  the  attempt  to  execute  such  threats. 

It  appeared  afterwards,  that  on  his  return  home,  he  had  been 
pursued  by  a  collection  of  disorderly  persons,  threatening,  as 
they  went  along,  vengeance  against  him.  On  their  way  these 
men  called  at  the  house  of  James  Kiddoe,  who  had  recently  com- 


jEt.37.]  cabinet   papers.  593 

plied  with  the  laws,  broke  into  his  still-house,  fired  several  balls 
under  his  still,  and  scattered  fire  over  and  about  the  house. 

Letters  from  the  inspector  in  March,  announce  an  increased 
activity  in  promoting  opposition  to  the  laws — frequent  meetings 
to  cement  and  extend  the  combinations  against  it — and  among 
other  means  for  this  purpose,  a  plan  of  collecting  a  force  to  seize 
him,  compel  him  to  resign  his  commission,  and  detain  him 
prisoner  probably  as  a  hostage. 

In  May  ■  and  June  new  violences  were  committed.  James 
Kiddoe,  the  person  above  mentioned,  and  William  Cochran, 
another  complying  distiller,  met  with  repeated  injury  to  their 
property.  Kiddoe  had  parts  of  his  grist-mill  at  different  times 
carried  away,  and  Cochran  suffered  more  material  injuries — his 
still  was  destroyed,  his  saw-mill  was  rendered  useless  by  the 
taking  away  of  the  saw,  and  his  grist-mill  so  injured  as  to  require 
to  be  repaired  at  considerable  expense. 

At  the  last  visit,  a  note  in  writing  was  left,  requiring  him  to 
publish  what  he  had  suffered  in  the  Pittsburgh  Gazette,  on  pain 
of  another  visit,  in  which  he  is  threatened  in  figurative  but  in- 
telligible terms,  with  the  destruction  of  his  property  by  fire ; 
thus  adding  to  the  profligacy  of  doing  wanton  injuries  to  a  fellow- 
citizen,  the  tyranny  of  compelling  him  to  be  the  publisher  of  his 
wrongs. 

June  being  the  month  for  receiving  annual  entries  of  stills, 
endeavors  were  used  to  open  offices  in  Westmoreland  and  Wash- 
ington, where  it  had  been  hitherto  found  impracticable.  With 
much  pains  and  difficulty  places  were  secured  for  the  purpose. 
That  in  Westmoreland  was  repeatedly  attacked  in  the  night  by 
armed  men,  who  frequently  fired  upon  it,  but  according  to  a 
report  which  has  been  made  to  this  department,  it  was  defended 
with  so  much  courage  arid  perseverance  by  John  Wells,  an 
auxiliary  officer,  and  Philip  Kegan,  the  owner  of  the  house,  as 
to  have  been  maintained  during  the  remainder  of  the  month. 

That  in  Washington,  after  repeated  attempts,  was  suppressed  ; 

the  first  attempt  was  confined  to  pulling  down  the  sign  of  the 

office,  and  threats  of  future  destruction ;  the  second  effected  the 

object  in  the  following  mode :  About  twelve  persons,  armed  and. 

D  38 


594  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.ZI. 

painted  black,  in  the  night  of  the  6th  of  June,  broke  into  the 
house  of  John  Symn,  where  the  office  was  kept,  and  after  having 
treacherously  seduced  him  to  come  down  stairs  and  put  himself 
in  their  power,  by  a  promise  of  safety  to  himself  and  his  house 
— they  seized  and  tied  him,  threatened  to  hang  him — took  him 
to  a  retired  spot  in  a  neighboring  wood,  and  there,  after  cutting 
off  his  hair,  tarring  and  feathering  him,  swore  him  never  again 
to  allow  the  use  of  his  house  for  an  office ;  never  to  disclose  their 
names,  and  never  again  to  have  any  sort  of  agency  in  aid  of  the 
excise ; — having  done  which,  they  bound  him  naked  to  a  tree, 
and  left  him  in  that  situation  till  morning,  when  he  succeeded  in 
extricating  himself.  Not  content  with  this,  the  malcontents  some 
days  after  made  him  another  visit,  pulled  down  part  of  his  house, 
and  put  him  in  a  situation  to  be  obliged  to  become  an  exile  from 
his  home,  and  to  find  an  asylum  elsewhere. 

During  this  time  several  of  the  distillers,  who  had  made 
entries  and  benefited  by  them,  refused  the  payment  of  the  duties, 
actuated,  no  doubt,  by  various  motives. 

Indications  of  a  plan  to  proceed  against  the  inspector  of  the 
revenue,  in  the  manner  which  has  been  before  mentioned,  con- 
tinued. In  a  letter  from  him  of  the  10th  of  July,  he  observed 
that  the  threatened  visit  had  not  been  made,  though  he  had  still 
reason  to  expect  it. 

In  the  session  of  Congress  which  began  in  December,  1793,  a 
bill  for  making  the  amendments  in  the  laws,  which  had  been  for 
some  time  desired,  was  brought  in,  and  on  the  5th  of  June  last 
became  a  law. 

It  is  not  to  be  doubted  that  the  different  stages  of  this  busi- 
ness were  regularly  notified  to  the  malcontents,  and  that  a  con- 
viction of  the  tendency  of  the  amendments  contemplated  to 
effectuate  the  execution  of  the  law,*had  matured  the  resolution 
to  bring  matters  to  a  violent  crisis. 

The  increasing  energy  of  the  opposition  rendered  it  indispen- 
sable to  meet  the  evil  with  proportionable  decision.     The  idea 
of  giving  time  for  the  law  to  extend  itself  in  scenes  where  the 
dissatisfaction  with  it  was  the  effect  not  of  an  improper  spirit 
but  of  causes  which  were  of  a  nature  to  yield  to  reason,  reflec 


jEt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  595 

tion  and  experience  (which  had  constantly  weighed  in  the  esti- 
mate of  the  measures  proper  to  be  pursued),  had  had  its  effect  in 
an  extensive  degree.  The  experiment,  too,  had  been  long  enough 
tried  to  ascertain,  that  where  resistance  continued  the  root  of 
the  evil  lay  deep,  and  required  measures  of  greater  efficacy  than 
had  been  pursued. 

The  laws  had  undergone  repeated  revisions  of  the  legislative 
representatives  of  the  Union,  and  had  virtually  received  their 
repeated  sanction,  without  even  an  attempt,  as  far  as  is  now 
recollected  or  can  be  traced,  to  effect  their  repeal — affording  an 
evidence  of  the  general  sense  of  the  community  in  their  favor. 
Complaints  began  to  be  loud  from  complying  quarters,  against 
the  impropriety  and  injustice  of  suffering  the  laws  to  remain  un- 
executed in  others. 

Under  the  united  influence  of  these  considerations,  there  was 
no  choice  but  to  try  the  efficiency  of  the  laws  in  prosecuting  with 
vigor  delinquents  and  offenders. 

Processes  issued  against  a  number  of  non-complying  distillers 
in  the  counties  of  Fayette  and  Alleghany,  and  indictments  hav- 
ing been  found  at  a  circuit  court,  holden  at  Philadelphia  in 
July  last,  against  Robert  Smilee  and  John  McCulloch,  two  of 
the  rioters  in  the  attack  which  in  November  preceding  had 
been  made  upon  the  house  of  a  collector  of  the  revenue  in  Fay- 
ette county,  processes  issued  against  them  also,  to  bring  them  to 
trial,  and,  if  guilty,  to  punishment. 

The  marshal  of  the  district  went  in  person  to  serve  these 
processes.  He  executed  the  trust  without  interruption,  though 
under  many  discouraging  circumstances,  in  Fayette  county; 
but  while  he  was  in  the  execution  of  it  in  Alleghany  county — 
being  then  accompanied  by  the  inspector  of  the  revenue,  to  wit, 
on  the  15th  of  July  last — he  was  beset  on  the  road  by  a  party 
of  from*  thirty  to  forty  armed  men,  who,  after  much  previous 
irregularity  of  conduct,  finally  fired  upon  him,  but,  as  it  happened, 
without  injury  either  to  him  or  to  the  inspector. 

This  attempt  on  the  marshal  was  but  the  prelude  of  greater 
excesses. 

About  break  of  day,  the  16th  of  July,  in  conformity  with  a 


596  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  37. 

plan  which  seems  to  have  been  for  some  time  entertained,  and 
which  probably  was  only  accelerated  by  the  coming  of  the  mar- 
shal into  the  survey,  an  attack  by  about  one.  hundred  persons, 
armed  with  guns  and  other  weapons,  was  made  upon  the  house 
of  the  inspector,  in  the  vicinity  of  Pittsburgh.  The  inspector, 
though  alone,  vigorously  defended  himself  against  the  assail- 
ants, and  obliged  them  to  retreat  without  accomplishing  their 
purpose. 

Apprehending  that  the  business  would  not  terminate  here,  he 
made  application,  by  letter,  to  the  judges,  generals  of  militia,  and 
sheriff  of  the  county,  for  protection.  A  reply  to  his  application 
from  John  Wilkins,  junior,  and  John  Gibson,  magistrates  and 
militia  officers,  informed  him,  that  the  laws  could  not  be  execu- 
ted, so  as  to  afford  him  the  protection  to  which  he  was  entitled, 
owing  to  the  too  general  combination  of  the  people  in  that  part 
of  Pennsylvania  to  oppose  the  revenue  law ;  adding,  that  they 
would  take  every  step  in  their  power  to  bring  the  rioters  to  jus- 
tice, and  would  be  glad  to  receive  information  of  the  individuals 
concerned  in  the  attack  upon  his  house,  that  prosecutions  might 
be  commenced  against  them  ;  and  expressing  their  sorrow  that, 
should  the  posse  comitatus  of  the  county  be  ordered  out  in  sup- 
port of  the  civil  authority,  very  few  could  be  gotten  that  were 
not  of  the  party  of  the  rioters. 

The  day  following,  the  insurgents  reassembled  with  a  con- 
siderable augmentation  of  numbers,  amounting,  as  has  been  com- 
puted, to  at  least  five  hundred,  and  on  the  17th  of  July  renewed 
their  attack  upon  the  house  of  the  inspector ;  who,  in  the  inter- 
val had  taken  the  precaution  of  calling  to  his  aid  a  small  de- 
tachment from  the  garrison  of  Fort  Pitt,  which,  at  the  time  of 
the  attack,  consisted  of  eleven  men,  who  had  been  joined  by 
Major  Abraham  Kirkpatrick,  a  friend  and  connection  of  the 
inspector. 

There  being  scarcely  a  prospect  of  effectual  defence  against 
so  large  a  body  as  then  appeared,  and  as  the  inspector  had  every 
thing  to  apprehend  for  his  person,  if  taken,  it  was  judged  advisa- 
ble that  he  should  withdraw  from  the  house  to  a  place  of  conceal- 
ment— Major  Kirkpatrick  generously  agreeing  to  remain  with 


jEt.37.]  cabinet    papers.  597 

the  eleven  men,  in  the  intention,  if  practicable,  to  make  a  capitu- 
lation in  favor  of  the  property ;  if  not,  to  defend  it  as  long  as 
possible. 

A  parley  took  place,  under  cover  of  a  flag  which  was  sent  by 
the  insurgents  to  the  house,  to  demand  that  the  inspector  should 
come  forth,  renounce  his  office,  and  stipulate  never  again  to  accept 
office  under  the  same  laws.  To  this  it  was  replied,  that  the  in- 
spector had  left  the  house  upon  their  first  approach,  and  that  the 
place  to  which  he  had  retired  was  unknown.  They  then  de- 
clared that  they  must  have  whatever  related  to  his  office.  They 
were  answered,  that  they  might  send  persons,  not  exceeding  six, 
to  search  the  house  and  take  away  whatever  papers  they  could 
find  appertaining  to  the  office.  But,  not  satisfied  with  this,  they 
insisted,  unconditionally,  that  the  armed  men  who  were  in  the 
house  for  its  defence  should  march  out  and  ground  their  arms, 
which  Major  Kirkpatrick  peremptorily  refused,  considering  it, 
and  representing  it  to  them,  as  a  proof  of  their  design  to  destroy 
the  property.     This  refusal  put  an  end  to  the  parley. 

A  brisk  firing  then  ensued  between  the  insurgents  and  those 
in  the  house,  which,  it  is  said,  lasted  for  nearly  an  hour,  till  the 
assailants,  having  set  fire  to  the  neighboring  and  adjacent  build- 
ings, eight  in  number,  the  intenseness  of  the  heat,  and  the  danger 
of  an  immediate  communication  of  the  fire  to  the  house,  obliged 
Major  Kirkpatrick  and  his  small  party  to  come  out  and  sur- 
render themselves.  In  the  course  of  the  firing,  one  of  the  insur- 
gents was  killed  and  several  wounded,  and  three  of  the  persons 
in  the  house  were  also  wounded.  The  person  killed  is  under- 
stood to  have  been  the  leader  of  the  party,  of  the  name  of  James 
McFarlane,  then  a  major  in  the  militia,  formerly  a  lieutenant  in 
the  Pennsylvania  line.  The  dwelling-house,  after  the  surrender 
shared  the  fate  of  the  other  buildings,  the  whole  of  which  were 
consumed  to  the  ground.  The  loss  of  property  to  the  inspector, 
upon  this  occasion,  is  estimated  (and,  as  it  is  believed,  with  great 
moderation)  at  not  less  than  three  thousand  pounds. 

The  marshal,  Colonel  Presley  Neville,  and  several  others, 
were  taken  by  the  insurgents  going  to  the  inspector's  house. 
All,  except  the  marshal  and  Colonel  Neville,  soon  made  their 


598  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  37. 

escape ;  but  these  were  carried  off  some  distance  from  the  place 
where  the  affray  had  happened,  and  detained  till  one  or  two 
o'clock  the  next  morning.  In  the  course  of  their  detention,  the 
marshal  in  particular  suffered  very  severe  and  humiliating  treat- 
ment, and  was  frequently  in  imminent  danger  of  his  life.  Sev- 
eral of  the  party  repeatedly  presented  their  pieces  at  him,  with 
every  appearance  of  a  design  to  assassinate  him,  from  which  they 
were  with  difficulty  restrained  by  the  efforts  of  a  few,  more  hu- 
mane and  more  prudent. 

Nor  could  he  obtain  safety  or  liberty,  but  upon  the  condition 
of  a  promise,  guarantied  by  Colonel  Neville,  that  he  would  serve 
no  other  process  on  the  west  side  of  the  Alleghany  mountain. 
The  alternative  being  immediate  death,  extorted  from  the  mar- 
shal a  compliance  with  this  condition,  notwithstanding  the  just 
sense  of  official  dignity  and  the  firmness  of  character  which  were 
witnessed  by  his  conduct  throughout  the  trying  scenes  he  had 
experienced. 

The  insurgents,  on  the  18th,  sent  a  deputation  of  two  of  their 
number  (one  a  justice  of  the  peace)  to  Pittsburgh,  to  require  of 
the  marshal  a  surrender  of  the  processes  in  his  possession,  inti- 
mating that  his  compliance  would  satisfy  the  people  and  add  to 
Ms  safety;  and  also  to  demand  of  General  Neville,  in  peremptory 
terms,  the  resignation  of  his  office ;  threatening,  in  case  of  re- 
fusal, to  attack  the  place,  and  take  him  by  force — demands  which 
both  these  officers  did  not  hesitate  to  reject,  as  alike  incompatible 
with  their  honor  and  their  duty. 

As  it  was  well  ascertained  that  no  protection  was  to  be  ex- 
pected from  the  magistrates  or  inhabitants  of  Pittsburgh,  it  be- 
came necessary  to  the  safety  both  of  the  inspector  and  the 
marshal,  to  quit  that  place ;  and,  as  it  was  known  that  all  the 
usual  routes  to  Philadelphia  were  beset  by  the  insurgents,  they 
concluded  to  descend  the  Ohio,  and  proceed  by  a  circuitous 
route  to  the  seat  of  government,  which  they  began  to  put  in  ex- 
ecution on  the  night  of  the  19th  of  July. 

Information  has  also  been  received  of  a  meeting  of  a  con- 
siderable number  of  persons  at  a  place  called  Mingo  Creek 
Meeting-house,  in  the  county  of  "Washington,  to  consult  about 


iET.37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  599 

the  further  measures  which  it  might  be  advisable  to  pursue ;  that 
at  this  meeting  a  motion  was  made  to  approve  and  agree  to  sup- 
port the  proceedings  which  had  taken  place,  until  the  excise  law 
was  repealed,  and  an  act  of  oblivion  passed ;  but  that,  instead  of 
this,  it  had  been  agreed  that  the  four  western  counties  of  Penn- 
sylvania and  the  neighboring  counties  of  Virginia  should  be  in- 
vited to  meet  in  a  convention  of  delegates,  on  the  14th  of  the 
present  month,  at  Parkinson's,  on  Mingo  Creek,  in  the  county  of 
Washington,  to  take  into  consideration  the  situation  of  the  west- 
ern country,  and  concert  such  measures  as  should  appear  suited 
to  the  occasion. 

It  appears,  moreover,  that,  on  the  25th  of  July  last,  the  mail 
of  the  United  States,  on  the  road  from  Pittsburgh  to  Phila- 
delphia, was  stopped  by  two  armed  men,  who  cut  it  open,  and 
took  out  all  the  letters  except  those  contained  in  one  packet. 
These  armed  men,  from  all  the  circumstances  which  occurred, 
were  manifestly  acting  on  the  part  of  the  insurgents. 

The  declared  object  of  the  foregoing  proceedings  is  to  ob- 
struct the  execution  and  compel  a  repeal  of  the  laws  laying 
duties  on  spirits  distilled  within  the  United  States,  and  upon 
stills.  There  is  just  cause  to  believe  that  this  is  connected  with 
an  indisposition,  too  general  in  that  quarter,  to  share  in  the  com- 
mon burdens  of  the  community,  and  with  a  wish,  among  some 
persons  of  influence,  to  embarrass  the  government.  It  is  af- 
firmed, by  well-informed  persons,  to  be  a  fact  of  notoriety,  that 
the  revenue  laws  of  the  State  itself  have  always  been  either  re- 
sisted or  very  defectively  complied  with  in  the  same  quarter. 

With  the  most  perfect  respect,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 


CABINET  OPINION — HAMILTON  AND   KNOX  TO  WASHINGTON. 

Philadelphia,  August  5,  1794. 

Sir: 

The  draft  of  a  proclamation  and  that  of  an  instruction  to  the 
commissioners  being  both  prepared,  we  take  the  liberty  to  sug- 


600  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [vEt.  37. 

gest  that  we  think  a  meeting  to-morrow  morning,  at  such  hour 

as  may  be  convenient  to  the  President,  may  be  advisable.     The 

Secretary  of  State  and  Attorney-General  being  out  of  town,  we 

cannot  consult  them,  but  we  will  engage  the  attendance  of  the 

Attorney-General,   provisionally,    by  nine  o'clock,  and   if  the 

President  concludes  on  the  meeting  at  that  hour,  he  can  have 

the  Secretary  of  State  apprised  of  it. 

We  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c. 

A.  Hamilton, 

H.  Knox. 


HAMILTON  TO  WASHINGTON. 

August  6,  1794. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  presents  his  respects  to  the 
President,  and  sends  him  the  statement  of  facts  promised.  The 
date  is  proposed  to  be  two  or  three  days  before  the  proclamation, 
when  it  was  in  fact  begun.  There  is  a  blank  to  be  filled  with  a 
quotation  from  a  former  proclamation,  which  is  not  immediately 
at  hand ;  but  the  blank  will  be  filled  before  it  goes  to  the  press. 
If  the  President  thinks  the  publication  proper,  and  will  be  pleased 
to  return  the  inclosed,  the  original  draft  being  too  much  obliter- 
ated for  the  purpose,  it  shall  be  immediately  begun  in  Dunlap's 
paper. 


PROCLAMATION. 


August  7,  1794. 
By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America. 


A    PROCLAMATION. 


Whereas,  combinations  to  defeat  the  execution  of  the  laws 
laying  duties  upon  spirits  distilled  within  the  United  States,  and 


jEt.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  601 

upon  stills,  have,  from  the  time  of  the  commencement  of  those 
laws,  existed  in  some  of  the  western  parts  of  Pennsylvania :  and 
whereas,  the  said  combinations,  proceeding  in  a  manner  subver- 
sive equally  of  the  just  authority  of  government  and  of  the 
rights  of  individuals,  have  hitherto  effected  their  dangerous  and 
criminal  purpose,  by  the  influence  of  certain  irregular  meetings, 
whose  proceedings  have  tended  to  encourage  and  uphold  the 
spirit  of  opposition,  by  misrepresentations  of  the  laws,  calculated 
to  render  them  odious,  by  endeavors  to  deter  those  who  might 
be  so  disposed  from  accepting  offices  under  them,  through  fear 
of  public  resentment,  and  of  injury  to  person  and  property,  and 
to  compel  those  who  had  accepted  such  offices,  by  actual  violence 
to  surrender  or  forbear  the  execution  of  them ;  by  circulating 
vindictive  menaces  against  all  those  who  should  otherwise  di- 
rectly or  indirectly  aid  in  the  execution  of  the  said  laws,  or  who, 
yielding  to  the  dictates  of  conscience  and  to  a  sense  of  obliga- 
tion, should  themselves  comply  therewith,  by  actually  injuring 
and  destroying  the  property  of  persons  who  were  understood  to 
have  so  complied;  by  inflicting  cruel  and  humiliating  punish- 
ments upon  private  citizens,  for  no  other  cause  than  that  of  ap- 
pearing to  be  the  friends  of  the  laws ;  by  intercepting  the  public 
officers  on  the  highways,  abusing,  assaulting,  and  otherwise  ill- 
treating  them ;  by  going  to  their  houses  in  the  night,  gaining 
admittance  by  force,  taking  away  their  papers,  and  committing 
other  outrages ;  employing  for  these  unwarrantable  purposes  the 
agency  of  armed  banditti,  disguised  in  such  manner  as  for  the 
most  part  to  escape  discovery :  and  whereas,  the  endeavors  of 
the  legislature  to  obviate  objections  to  the  said  laws,  by  lower- 
ing the  duties,  and  by  other  alterations  conducive  to  the  conve- 
nience of  those  whom  they  immediately  affect  (though  they  have 
given  satisfaction  in  other  quarters),  and  the  endeavors  of  the 
executive  officers  to  conciliate  a  compliance  with  the  laws,  by 
explanations,  by  forbearance,  and  even  by  particular  accommo- 
dations, founded  on  the  suggestion  of  local  considerations,  have 
been  disappointed  of  their  effect  by  the  machinations  of  persons, 
whose  industry  to  excite  resistance  has  increased  with  every  ap- 
pearance of  a  disposition  among  the  people  to  relax  in  their  op- 


602  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  37. 

position  and  to  acquiesce  in  the  laws,  insomuch  that  many  per- 
sons in  the  said  western  parts  of  Pennsylvania  have  at  length 
been  hardy  enough  to  perpetrate  acts  which  I  am  advised  amount 
to  treason,  being  overt  acts  of  levying  war  against  the  United 
States ;  the  said  persons  having,  on  the  16th  and  17th  of  July 
last  past,  proceeded  in  arms  (on  the  second  day  amounting  to 
several  hundreds)  to  the  house  of  John  Neville,  inspector  of  the 
revenue  for  the  fourth  survey  of  the  district  of  Pennsylvania, 
having  repeatedly  attacked  the  said  house,  with  the  persons 
therein,  wounding  some  of  them ;  having  seized  David  Lenox, 
marshal  of  the  district  of  Pennsylvania,  who  previous  thereto 
had  been  fired  upon  while  in  the  execution  of  his  duty  by  a  party 
of  armed  men,  detaining  him  for  some  time  prisoner,  till,  for 
the  preservation  of  his  life,  and  the  obtaining  of  his  liberty, 
he  found  it  necessary  to  enter  into  stipulations  to  forbear  the 
execution  of  certain  official  duties  touching  processes  issuing 
out  of  a  court  of  the  United  States ;  and  having  finally  obliged 
the  said  inspector  of  the  said  revenue  and  the  said  marshal, 
from  considerations  of  personal  safety,  to  fly  from  that  part 
of  the  country,  in  order,  by  a  circuitous  route,  to  proceed  to 
the  seat  of  government ;  avowing,  as  the  motives  of  these  out- 
rageous proceedings,  an  intention  to  prevent  by  force  of  arms, 
the  execution  of  the  said  laws ;  to  oblige  the  said  inspector  of 
the  revenue  to  renounce  his  said  office ;  to  withstand,  by  open 
violence,  the  lawful  authority  of  the  government  of  the  United 
States ;  and  to  compel  thereby  an  alteration  in  the  measures  of 
the  legislature,  and  a  repeal  of  the  laws  aforesaid :  and  whereas, 
by  a  law  of  the  United  States,  entitled  "  An  act  to  provide  for 
calling  forth  the  militia  to  execute  the  laws  of  the  Union,  sup- 
press insurrections,  and  repel  invasions,"  it  is  enacted,  "that, 
whenever  the  laws  of  the  United  States  shall  be  opposed,  or  the 
execution  thereof  obstructed,  in  any  State,  by  combinations  too 
powerful  to  be  suppressed  by  the  ordinary  course  of  judicial  pro- 
ceedings, or  by  the  powers  vested  in  the  marshals  by  that  act, 
the  same  being  notified  by  an  associate  justice  or  the  district 
judge,  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  President  of  the  United  States  to 
call  forth  the  militia  of  such  State  to  suppress  such  combinations, 


^t.  37.]  CABINET    PAPERS.  603 

and  to  cause  the  laws  to  be  duly  executed.     And  if  the  militia 
of  a  State  where  such  combinations  may  happen  shall  refuse,  or 
be  insufficient,  to  suppress  the  same,  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the 
President,  if  the  legislature  of  the  United  States  shall  not  be  in 
session,  to  call  forth  and  employ  such  numbers  of  the  militia  of 
any  other  State  or  States  most  convenient  thereto,  as  may  be 
necessary ;    and  the  use  of  the  militia,  so  to  be  called  forth, 
may  be  continued,  if  necessary, '  until  the  expiration  of  thirty 
days  after  the  commencement  of  the  ensuing  session :  provided 
always,  that,  whenever  it  may  be  necessary  in  the  judgment  of 
the  President,  to  use  the  military  force  hereby  directed  to  be 
called  forth,  the  President  shall  forthwith,  and  previous  thereto, 
by  proclamation,  command  such  insurgents  to  disperse  and  re- 
tire peaceably  to  their  respective  abodes  within  a  limited  time :" 
And,  whereas,  James  Wilson,  an  associate  justice,  on  the  4th  in- 
stant, by  writing  under  his  hand,  did,  from  evidence  which  had 
been  laid  before  him,  notify  to  me  that,   "in  the  counties  of 
Washington  and  Alleghany,  in  Pennsylvania,  laws  of  the  United 
States  are  opposed,   and  the   execution  thereof  obstructed,  by 
combinations  too  powerful  to  be  suppressed  by  the  ordinary 
course  of  judicial  proceedings,  or  by  the  powers  vested  in  the 
marshal  of  that  district:"  And  whereas,  it  is  in  my  judgment 
necessary,  under  the  circumstances  of  the  case,  to  take  measures 
for  calling  forth  the  militia  in  order  to  suppress  the  combinations 
aforesaid,  and  to  cause  the  laws  to  be  duly  executed,  and  I  have 
accordingly  determined  so  to  do,  feeling  the  deepest  regret  for 
the  occasion,  but  withal  the  most  solemn  conviction  that  the  es- 
sential interests  of  the  Union  demand  it,  that  the  very  existence 
of  government  and  the  fundamental  principles  of  social  order 
are  materially  involved  in  the  issue,  and  that  the  patriotism  and 
firmness  of  all  good  citizens  are  seriously  called  upon,  as  occa- 
sions may  require,  to  aid  in  the  effectual  suppression  of  so  fatal 
a  spirit. 

Wherefore,  and  in  pursuance  of  the  proviso  above  recited,  I, 
George  Washington,  President  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby 
command  all  persons,  being  insurgents  as  aforesaid,  and  all  others 
whom  it  may  concern,  on  or  before  the  first  day  of  September 


604  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  37. 

next,  to  disperse  and  retire  peaceably  to  their  respective  abodes. 
And  I  do  moreover  warn  all  persons  whomsoever,  against  aiding, 
abetting,  or  comforting  the  perpetrators  of  the  aforesaid  treasona- 
ble acts  ;  and  do  require  all  officers  and  other  citizens,  according 
to  their  respective  duties,  and  the  laws  of  the  land,  to  exert  their 
utmost  endeavors  to  prevent  and  suppress  such  dangerous  pro- 
ceedings. 

In  testimony  whereof,  I  have  caused  the  seal  of  the  United 
States  of  America  to  be  affixed  to  these  presents,  and  signed  the 
same  with  my  hand. 

Done  at  the  city  of  Philadelphia,  the  seventh  day  of  August, 
one  thousand  seven  hundred  and  ninety  four,  and  of  the 
[L.  S.]  independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  nine- 
teenth. 

Geo.  Washington. 

By  the  President, 

Edmund  Randolph. 


END  OF  VOL.  IV. 


