ill 


NYPL  RESEARCH  LIBRARIES 


3  3433  08173749  0 


^,^i 

"^i 

■^^ 


.'■■:,.,  « 
"'i^^ 


THE 
NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


The  Amy  Angell  Collier  Montague 

AND  Gilbert  H.  Montague 

Collection 


< 


BEM  HARBOR  LIBRARY. 
9  f  C 


l/\\^J 


FEDERAL  EDITION 
Limited  to  1,000  signed  and  numbered  sets. 


The  Collector's  Federal  Edition  of  the  Writings 
of  Benjamin  Franklin  is  limited  to  six  hundred 
signed  and  numbered  sets,  of  which  this  is 

Number  __;^_yL__J_ 

We  guarantee  that  no  limited,  numbered  edition, 
other  than  the  Federal,  shall  be  printed  from  these 
plates. 


The   written    number  must  correspond  with    the 
perforated  number  at  top  of  this  page. 


Benjamin  Franklin 

From  the  painting  by  Mason  Chamberlain,  R.  A. 


btALfiAh 


f(lork$  of 


fitjattttE 


ttt 


m 


(!]^m?lii4?  ilulum^JS 


^tberui  €b'\ium 


The  Works  of 

Benjamin  Franklin 

Including  the   Private  as  well  as  the 
Official  and  Scientific  Correspondence 

Together  with 

The  Unmutilated  and  Correct  Version  of  the  Autobiography 


Compiled  and  Edited 
by 

John  Bigelow 


Strange  that  Ulysses  does  a  thousand  things  so  well." — Iliad,  B.  ii,  335 


Volume  VII 


G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons 

New  York  and  London 

^be  Iknicliei-boctiei;  pcesa 

1904 


Zbc  ftntcfterbocftcr  prese,  "Wew  JSorft 


CONTENTS  OF  VOLUME  VII 


1775 


DXCVIIL— Franklin's  Account  of  the  Nego- 
tiations IN  London  for  Effecting 
A  Reconciliation  between  Great 
Britain  and  the  American  Colo- 
nies, March  220      (Continued)     .         3 
DXCIX. — To  Joseph  Priestley,  May  i6th       .       78 
State    of    America    on    Dr.   Franklin's 
return. 

DC. — To  Mrs.  Mecom,  May  26th        .         .       79 
Rettirn  from  England — Chosen  to  the 
Continental  Congress. 
DCI. — To  Mr.  Strahan,  July  5  h       .         -79 
DCII. — To  Joseph  Priestley,  July  7TH  80 

Conciliation     hopeless — General     Gage 
— Franklin's  occupations. 
DCIII.~To  Mrs.  Mary  Hewson,  July  8th    .       82 
DCIV. — To  Peter  V.  B.  Livingston,  August 

29TH        ......       84 

Powder  for  the  use  of  the  troops  in  New 
York. 
DCV. — To  Joseph  Priestley,  October  30    .       85 
First    campaign    made    by    the    British 
forces  in  America. 
DCVL — To  A  Friend  in  England,  October 


3D  ...... 

The  tendency  to  a  speedy  separation  be- 
tween Great  Britain  and  the  colonies. 


86 


iv  Contents  of  Volume  VII 

PAGE 

DCVII.— To  Charles  W.  F.  Dumas,  December 

9TH 87 

Asking  him  to  ascertain  from  the  Diplo- 
matic Corps  at  The  Hague  whether  any  of 
the  European  courts  are  disposed  to  afford 
assistance  to  the  American  colonies — State 
of  affairs  in  America. 
DCVIII. — To  His  Most  Serene  Highness,  Don 
Gabriel  of  Bourbon,  December 
I2TH         ......        92 

On  receiving  his  version  of  Sallust. 
DCIX. — Articles    of    Confederation    and 
Perpetual   Union,    Proposed   in 
General  Congress         ...       94 
DCX. — Vindication  and  Offer  from  Con- 
gress to  Parliament    .         .         .     loi 
DCXI. — The  British  Nation  as  it  Appeared 

TO  the  Colonists  in  1775       .         .     109 

1776 

DCXII. — To  Charles  Lee,  February  iith     .     no 
Saltpetre  and  powder — Bows  and  arrows 
— Reconciliation  with  England  hopeless. 
DCXIII. — To  Charles  Lee,  February  19TH     .     113 

Introducing  Thomas  Paine. 
DCXIV. — From    David    Hartley,    February 

24TH        ......     114 

Urging  measures  of  conciliation. 
DCXV. — To  Philip  Schuyler,  March  iith    .     117 
Appointment  of  Commissioners  to  Canada 
DCXVL — To  Lord  Stirling,  March  27TH         .     121 
Franklin's  journey  to  Canada. 
DCXVIL — To  Josiah  Quincy,  April  15TH  .     122 

Journey  to  Canada — Doings  of  Congress. 
DCXVin. — To  Philip  Schuyler,  May  27TH         .     123 
Journey  from  Albany  to  New  York. 
DCXIX. — To  THE  Commissioners  in  Canada, 

May  27TH        .....     125 

German  aiixiliaries — Feeble  health. 


Contents  of  Volume  VII  v 

PAGE 

DCXX. — To  George  Washington,  July  220  .     126 
Joseph  Belton's  contrivance  for  coast  de- 
fence. 
DCXXI. — To  Horatio  Gates,  August  28th      .     127 
Resolves  of  Congress  for  spreading  dis- 
affection among  the  Hessian  troops — Prizes 
taken    at    sea — Dr.     Price — Advices    from 
England. 
DCXXII. — Sketch     of     Propositions     for     a 

Peace 128 

DCXXIII.— To  Philip  Mazzei       .         .         .         .131 
The  Academy  of  Ttirin — Silk  culture  in 
America — Ravizzoni. 
DCXXIV. — Correspondence      and     Interview 

WITH  Lord  Howe  ....     133 
DCXXV. — To  Thomas  Morris,  December  4TH  .     148 
Arrival  in  France. 
DCXXVI. — To  Silas  Deane,  December  4TH       .     149 
On  his  way  to  France — Captvu-es  on  his 
voyage — Shipment  of  indigo  by  Congress  to 
pay  the  Commissioners'  expenses — Requests 
Deane   to  notify  Lee  of  his  appointment, 
and  to  secure  lodgings  for  himself  in  Paris. 
DCXXVII. — To  M.  Barbeu  Dubourg,  December 

4TH 151 

Corrects  false  impressions  prevailing  in 
France  about  reported  military  reverses  at 
home 

DCXXVIII. — To   John    Hancock,    President    op 

Congress,  December  8th      .         -153 
Announces  his  arrival  in  France — Does 
not    assume   a   public    character — Military 
stores  for  Ainerica. 
DCXXIX. — To  the  Committee  of  Secret  Cor- 
respondence, December  8th         .     156 
Captain  Wickes  and  his  prizes. 
DCXXX. — To  THE  Count  de  Vergennes,  De- 
cember 23D    .....     157 
Notification   to   the   French   Minister   of 
Foreign  Affairs  by  the  Commissioners  of 
Congress  of  their  appointment. 


vi  Contents  of  Volume  VII 

1777 

PAGE 

DCXXXI. — Comparison  of  Great  Britain  and 
THE  United  States  in  Regard  to 
THE  Basis  of  Credit  in  the  Two 
Countries       .....     159 
DCXXXII. — To  the  Committee  of  Secret  Cor- 
respondence, January  4TH  .         .     168 
First  audience  with  the  Minister  of  For- 
eign Affairs. 
DCXXXIII.— To   Mrs.    Mary   Hewson,   January 

I2TH  ......       168 

DCXXXIV. — To  Juliana  Ritchie,  January  19TH  .     170 
Franklin's  precaution  against  spies. 
DCXXXV. — To    THE    President    of    Congress, 

January  2oth         .         .         .         -171 
DCXXXVI.— To  Mr.  T.  Morris,  January  26TH     .     171 

Appeal  for  remittances. 

DCXXXVII. — Instructions  to  Captain  Nicholson 

January  26th         ....     172 
Directions  to  purchase  a  vessel  for  the 
United  States. 
DCXXXVIII.  — Supposed  to  be  to  M.  Montaudoin, 

January  26th 173 

DCXXXIX.— To   Mrs.    Mary   Hewson,   January 

26th        .         .         .         .         .         .174 

DCXL. — To  Joseph  Priestley,  January  27TH      176 
The      philosopher's     stone — Affairs     in 
America. 
DCXLI. — From  William  Dodd,  January  29TH      177 
DCXLII. — To  John  Ingenhousz         .        .         .178 

Why  Franklin  was  sent  to  France. 

DCXLIII. — To  THE  Right  Honorable  Lord 
George  Sackville  Germaine,  One 
of  the  Principal  Secretaries  op 
State,  to  the  King  op  Great 
Britain,  February  7TH         .         .     181 

DCXLIV.— To  Mrs.  Thompson,  at  Lisle,  Febru- 
ary 8th  .....     182 


Contents  of  Volume  VII 


PAGE 


DCXLV.— To  General  Washington  .         .     i86 

DCXLVI. — From    Georgiana   Shipley,   Febru- 
ary iiTH         .....     187 
DCXLVII. — From  the  Count  de  Schaumbergh 
to  the  Baron  Hohendorf,  Com- 
manding THE  Hessian  Troops  in 
America,  February  iSth       .         .     191 
A  jeu  d'esprit. 
DCXLVIII. — To  Richard  Peters,  March  6th       .     196 
Introducing  Captain  Garanger. 
DCXLIX. — To  Arthur  Lee,  March  2ist    .         .     197 
DCL.— To  M.  Lith,  April  6th      .         .         .202 
A     lesson     about     corresponding     with 
strangers. 
DCLL— To  Count  d'Aranda,   Spanish  Am- 
bassador to  the  Court  of  France, 

April  7TH 205 

DCLII. — To  Mr.  Rybot,  April  9TH  .         .     207 

DCLIII. — To    Richard    Bache,    Esq.,    April 

14TH 208 

DCLIV. — To  the  Bishop  of  Tricomie,  April 

22D  ......     208 

DCLV. — To    His  Excellency  the  Viscount 

de  ponte  de  lima,  minister  for 

Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Kingdom 

OF  Portugal,  April  26th 

DCLVI. — To  His  Excellency  the  Ambassador 

from  Portugal,  April  26th 

A  remonstrance. 

DCLVn.— To  Thomas  Cushing,  May  ist  . 

DCLVni.— To  Samuel  Cooper,  May  ist     . 

The  American  cause  in  Europe. 

DCLIX. — To  John  Winthrop,  May  ist    . 

Dr.  Price — The  German  princes. 

DCLX.— To  A  Friend      .... 

SoHcitors    of   military    appointments    i: 
America. 
DCLXI. — To  George  Washington,  June  13TH 
Introducing  a  Polish  officer. 


213 
214 


216 

218 


viii  Contents  of  Volume  VII 

PAGE 

DCLXII. — To  George  Washington,  June  13TH     223 
Introducing  Baron  de  Frey. 
DCLXIII. — To  Capt.  Johnson,  July  220     .         .     223 
Commending    Chevalier    de    Kninon,    a 
passenger,  to  his  civiUties. 
DCLXIV. — To   Gen.    Washington,    September 

4TH  ......     224 

Introducing  Baron  Steuben. 
DCLXV. — To     Richard     Peters,     September 

I2TH 224 

Introducing  M.  Gerard. 
DCLXVI. — To  David  Hartley,  October  14TH  .     225 
The  misconduct  of  Great   Britain — Her 
cruel   treatment   of  American   prisoners — 
Proposals  for  their  relief. 
DCLXVII. — To  a  Friend,  October  14TH      .         .     230 
Pointed  conductors. 
DCLXVIII.— To  Captain  Thompson  and  C.  Hin- 

man,  November  25TH     .         .         -231 
Instructions  for  cruising. 
DCLXIX.— To  Mr.  Thornton      .         .         .         .233 
Instructions  for  the  relief  of  American 
prisoners  in  England. 

DCLXX. — To    Sir    Grey    Cooper,    December 

iiTH        ......     235 

American  prisoners  in  England. 
DCLXXI. — To  James  Lovell,  December  2ist    .     236 
Applications    for    appointments    in    the 
American  Service. 
DCLXXII. — A     Dialogue     between     Britain, 
France,  Spain,  Holland,  Saxony, 
and  America  ....     238 

DCLXXIII. — A  Catechism  Relative  to  the  Eng- 
lish National  Debt      .         .  242 

1778 

DCLXXIV. — To  Ralph  Izard,  January  29TH        .     244 
DCLXXV. — To  James  Hutton,  February  ist     .     245 
On    the    means    for    reconciling    Great 
Britain  and  America. 


Contents  of  Volume  VII 


PAGE 


DCLXXVI.— To  David  Hartley,  February  i2TH     248 
American  prisoners — Conduct  of  France 
toward   the    United    States— A   change   of 
ministry  necessary  to  a  reconciliation. 
DCLXXVII.— To  Thomas  Gushing,  February  2ist     251 
The  treaty  of  alHance  and  commerce. 
DCLXXVIIL— To  Arthur  Lee,  February  23D        .     255 
Lord  North— Rtimors  of  a  treaty  between 
Washington  and  Howe. 
DCLXXIX.— To  M.  Gerard,  February  24TH         .     255 
Contradicting  reports  of  treaties  between 
English  Commissioners  and  Congress. 
DCLXXX.— To  M.  Gerard,  February  25TH         .     256 
DCLXXXI.— To  David  Hartley,  February  26TH  .     257 
Lord  North's  bill  of  conciliation — Advice 
to  the  English  Whigs. 
DCLXXXII.— To  Mrs.  Catherine  Greene,  Febru- 
ary 28TH 260 

DCLXXXIII. — A  True  History  of  the  Difference 
between  the  colonies  and  the 
Author  of  the  Stamp  Act,  March 

I2TH 262 

DCLXXXIV.— To  Arthur  Lee,  March  17TH   .         .     266 
Concerning  bills  drawn  by  Congress  on 
the  Commissioners. 
DCLXXXV.— To  James  Hutton,  March  24TH        .     267 
DCLXXXVL— To  Ralph  Izard,  March  30TH  .         .     268 
DCLXXXVIL— To  William  Pulteney,  March  30TH     271 
America  can  only  treat  on  the  basis  of 
independence,  nor  at  all  if  England  makes 
war  on  France. 
DCLXXXVin. — To  Mr.  President  Laurens,  March 

31ST 273 

Introducing  M.  Gerard. 
DCLXXXIX. — To    THE    President    of    Congress, 

March  31ST 274 

Relating  to  Silas  Deane. 

DCXC— To  Monsieur  Gerard,  April  ist      .     275 
England's  propositions  came  too  late. 


Contents  of  Volume  VII 


PAGE 


DCXCI. — To  Arthur  Lee,  April  ist        .         .     275 
The  Commissioners'  accoimts. 
DCXCII. — To  Arthur  Lee,  April  4TH       .         .     277 
On  the  style  of  his  personal  intercourse 
with  the  Commissioners. 
DCXCIIL— To  Arthur  Lee,  April  6th       .         .     285 
DCXCIV. — To  the  Grand  Pensionary  of  Hol- 
land, April  ioth  ....     286 
DCXCV.— To  M.  Dumas,  April  ioth  .         .     287 

DCXCVL — To  Edward  Bancroft,  April  i6th  .     290 
DCXCVIL — From   David   Hartley,   April   23D, 

and  Franklin's  Answer        .         .     292 
DCXCVIIL — To  the  Count  de  Vergennes,  April 

24TH 293 

Conversations   respecting  propositions 
for  peace. 
DCXCIX. — From    the    Count    de    Vergennes, 

April  25TH 296 

Policy  of  the  British  ministry  to  excite 
distrust. 
DCC. — To  Mr.  Jn.  Ross,  April  26th    .         .     297 
Thomas  Morris — Arthur  Lee  and  the  ac- 
counts— Lee   "artful  and  disputatious." 
DCCL — To  Arthur  Lee,  May  17TH        .         .     300 
Mode  of  drawing  money  from  the  Ameri- 
can banker. 
DCCn. — To  David  Hartley,  May  25TH  .     302 

Exchange  of  prisoners. 
DCCIIL — To  John  Paul  Jones,  May  27TH        .     303 
DCCIV. — To  John  Paul  Jones,  June  ist         .     304 
Offer  of  a  command. 
DCCV.— To  John  Paul  Jones,  June  IOTH        .     305 
Instructions  respecting  the  command  of  a 
frigate. 
DCCVL — To  David  Hartley,  June  i6th         .     306 
DCCVn. — To  James  Hutton,  June  23D     ,         .     308 
DCCVnL— To    AN    Engraver   in    Paris,    June 

24TH        ......     308 

Respecting   a   print    commemorative   of 
American  independence. 


Contents  of  Volume  VII  xi 

PAGE 

DCCIX. — Proposed   Letter  to   Lord  North 

Concerning  Prisoners,  June        .     309 
DCCX.— To  Charles  de  Weissenstein,  July 

1ST 311 

Reply  to  insinuations  against  the  good 
faith  of  France. 
DCCXL— To  Mr.  Grand,  July  3D     .         .         .320 
British  seiz\ires  of  French  ships. 
DCCXIL— To  David  Hartley,  July  13TH  321 

DCCXin.— To  James  Lovell,  July  22D      .         .     322 
Mr.      Deane — Beaumarchais — Inconven- 
ience of  maintaining  several  Commission- 
ers in  Europe — Difficulty  of  raising  loans. 
DCCXIV. — To  David  Hartley,  September  30  .     329 
DCCXV. — To   John    Paul   Jones,    September 

6th 33° 

DCCXVL — To  David  Hartley,  September  14TH     332 
DCCXVIL — Franklin's  Notes  on  the  Condition 

OF  his  Health,  October  4TH         .     333 
DCCXVHL— To  F.  Grand,  October  14TH     .         .     338 

Respecting  privateers. 
DCCXIX. — To  David  Hartley,  October  20TH   .     340 
DCCXX. — To  David  Hartley,  October  26th  .     341 

DCCXXL — To  Mr.  Grand,  November  3D    .         .     345 
Spanish  complaints  of  Captain  Conyng- 
ham. 
DCCXXn. — To  David  Hartley,  November  29TH,     346 
DCCXXin. — To  Dr.  Priestley  (probably)           .     347 
Assaults  upon  his  character — Volta's  ex- 
periment— Governor  William  Franklin  ar- 
rested   as    a    royalist — Confidence    in    the 
republic. 
DCCXXIV. — B.   Franklin's   Personal   Expense 
Account  with   Congress   during 
HIS   First  Two  Years'   Official 
Residence  in  Paris,  1776-78         .     350 
DCCXXV. — The  Ephemera:    an  Emblem  of  Hu- 
man Life.     To  Madame  Brillon, 
OF  Passy 363 


THE 


Deformed 


PAGE 


li  Contents  of  Volume  VII 

1779 

DCCXXVI.— The  Whistle.  To  Madame  Brillon,  366 
DCCXXVII. — A  Petition  of  the  Left  Hand.  To 
Those  who  have  the  Superin- 
tendency  of  Education  .  .  369 
DCCXXVIII. — Sketch  of  an  English  School.  For 
THE  Consideration  of  the  Trus- 
tees of  the  Philadelphia  Acad- 
emy 


370 


DCCXXIX.— The  Handsome  and 

Leg 379 

DCCXXX.— Morals  of  Chess       .         .         •         .381 

DCCXXXL— A  Tale 387 

Of  the  man  with  no  religion. 

DCCXXXIL— An  Arabian  Tale      .         .         .         .387 
DCCXXXIIL— Aurora  Borealis      .         .         .         .389 

Conjectural  explanations  of  it. 
DCCXXXIV.— To  Madame  Helvetius      .         .         -395 
DCCXXXV. — To  Madame  Helvetius,  at  Auteuil,     397 
DCCXXXVL— To  l'Abbe  de  la   Roche,  at  Au- 
teuil     ....  .     398 
DCCXXXVIL— To  l'Abbe  de  la  Roche    .         .         .400 
DCCXXXVIIL— To  l'Abbe  Morellet         .         .         .401 
DCCXXXIX.— An  Economical  Project  .         .         .404 

DCCXL.— The  Levee 410 

DCCXLI.— Proposed    New    Version    of    the 

Bible 412 

DCCXLIL— Apologue 414 

DCCXLIIL— From  Samuel  Cooper  to  B.  Frank- 
lin, January  4TH  ....     416 

The  Marquis  de  Lafayette — Count  d'Es- 
taing — Proposed  invasion  of  Canada. 
DCCXLIV.— To  Ralph  Izard,  January  4TH  .     419 

Financial  Affairs  of  the  United  States  in 
Europe. 


Contents  of  Volume  VII  xiii 

PAGE 

DCCXLV. — To    THE     Committee    on    Foreign 

Affairs,  January  isth          .         .     421 
Money  advanced  to  Izard  and  Lee — The 
alliance   between   France   and   the    United 
States  an  obstacle  to  peace. 
DCCXLVI. — From  David  Hartley,  January  23D     423 
DCCXLVII. — To  David  Hartley,  January  2Sth  .     424 
DCCXLVIII. — To  Mrs.  Margaret  Stevenson,  Jan- 
uary 25TH 425 

His  mode  of  life  in  France. 
DCCXLIX. — To  Messrs.  Lloyd  and  Others,  Jan- 
uary 26TH      .         .         .         .         .428 
The  Barbary  powers. 
DCCL. — To  David  Hartley,  February  3D    .     430 
Answer  to  his  proposition  to  quit  the  al- 
liance of  France. 
DCCLI. — To  Jonathan  Williams,  Jr.,  Febru- 
ary 13TH 433 

Franklin  annoimces  his  appointment  as 
Minister — Governor  Greene. 
DCCLII. — To  Arthur  Lee,  February  i8th      .     435 
DCCLHL — To  M.  Dumas,  February  iqth  .     436 

A  loan  in  Holland — Lafayette. 
DCCLIV. — From  Arthur  Lee,  February  2IST  .     437 
DCCLV. — To  David  Hartley,  February  22D  .     438 
DCCLVL — To  David  Hartley,  February  22D   .     439 
DCCLVIL — To  Count  de  Vergennes,  February 

25TH 440 

Some  suggestions  for  the  future  prosecu- 
tion of  the  war. 
DCCLVin. — To  Vergennes,  February  25TH        .     444 
DCCLIX. — To   Patrick  Henry,   Governor  of 

Virginia,  February  26th      .         .     445 
On  procuring  supplies  in  Exirope  for  the 
army  in  Virginia. 

DCCLX. — To  Vergennes,  March  qth       .        .     447 

Grounds  for  a  new  loan. 

DCCLXL — Passports  for  Moravian  Vessels, 
and  for  Captain  Cook,  March 
ioth        ......     447 


Contents  of  Volume  VII 

PA6B 

DCCLXII. — To  Messrs.  Hills,  Parkes,  Adams, 
Degge,  Buckley,  Elwood,  and 
Warren,  Officers  on  Board  the 
"Alliance,"  March  iith  .  .  450 
Application  for  advances  considered — 
Frugality  tirged  upon  them. 
DCCLXIII. — To  Arthur  Lee,  March  13TH   .         .     452 

Mr.  Williams's  accounts. 
DCCLXIV.— To  Messrs.  W.  Blake,  D.  Blake,  J. 
Johnson,  P.  R.  Fendall,  J.  Whar- 
ton, M.  Ridley,  I.  Ross, — Lloyd, 
— Ogilvie,  and  J.  D.  Schweighau- 
ser.  Merchants  Now  at  Nantes, 

March  13TH 453 

Requested  to  examine  Mr.  Williams's 
accounts. 
DCCLXV. — To  Honorable  Arthur  Lee,  Esq., 

March  13TH   .....     454 
The  records  and  archives  of  the  Commis- 
sioners. 


SEAL  HAh 


CORRESPONDENCE 

AND 

MISCELLANEOUS  WRITINGS 


VOL.  VII. — I. 


CORRESPONDENCE 

AND 

MISCELLANEOUS  WRITINGS 


DXCVIII 

AN  ACCOUNT  OF  NEGOTIATIONS  IN  LONDON  FOR 
EFFECTING  A  RECONCILIATION  BETWEEN  GREAT 
BRITAIN    AND    THE    AMERICAN    COLONIES 

(Continued.) 

The  9th  article  was  so  drawn,  in  compliance  with 
an  idea  of  Dr.  Fothergill's,  started  at  our  first  meet- 
ing, viz.,  that  government  here  would  probably  not 
be  satisfied  with  the  promise  of  voluntary  grants  in 
time  of  war  from  the  Assemblies,  of  which  the  quan- 
tity must  be  uncertain;  that,  therefore,  it  would  be 
best  to  proportion  them  in  some  way  to  the  shillings 
in  the  pound  raised  in  England;  but  how  such  pro- 
portion could  be  ascertained  he  was  at  a  loss  to  con- 
trive. I  was  desired  to  consider  it.  It  has  been 
said,  too,  that  Parliament  was  become  jealous  of  the 
right  claimed  and  heretofore  used  by  the  crown,  of 
raising  money  in  the  colonies  without  parliamentary 
3 


4  The  Works  of  [1775 

consent;  and,  therefore,  since  we  would  not  pay 
parliamentary  taxes,  future  requisitions  must  be 
made  with  consent  of  Parliament,  and  not  otherwise. 
I  wondered  that  the  crown  should  be  willing  to  give 
up  that  separate  right,  but  had  no  objection  to  its 
limiting  itself,  if  it  thought  proper;  so  I  drew  the 
article  accordingly,  and  contrived  to  proportion  the 
aid  by  the  tax  of  the  last  year  of  peace.  And  since 
it  was  thought  that  the  method  I  should  have  liked 
best  would  never  be  agreed  to,  viz.,  a  Continental 
Congress  to  be  called  by  the  crown,  for  answering 
requisitions  and  proportioning  aids,  I  chose  to  leave 
room  for  voluntary  additions  by  the  separate  Assem- 
blies, that  the  crown  might  have  some  motive  for 
calling  them  together,  and  cultivating  their  good- 
will, and  they  have  some  satisfaction  in  showing 
their  loyalty  and  their  zeal  in  the  common  cause,  and 
an  opportunity  of  manifesting  their  disapprobation 
of  a  war,  if  they  did  not  think  it  a  just  one.  This 
article  therefore  met  with  no  objection  from  them; 
and  I  had  another  reason  for  liking  it,  viz.,  that  the 
view  of  the  proportion  to  be  given  in  time  of  war 
might  make  us  the  more  frugal  in  time  of  peace. 

For  the  loth  article,  I  urged  the  injustice  of  seizing 
that  fortress  (which  had  been  built  at  an  immense 
charge  by  the  province,  for  the  defence  of  their  port 
against  national  enemies) ,  and  turning  it  into  a  cita- 
del for  awing  the  town,  restraining  their  trade, 
blocking  up  their  port,  and  depriving  them  of  their 
privileges.  That  a  great  deal  had  been  said  of  their 
injustice  in  destroying  the  tea ;  but  here  was  a  much 
greater  injustice  imcompensated,  that  castle  having 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  5 

cost  the  province  three  hundred  thousand  pounds. 
And  that  such  a  use  made  of  a  fortress  they  had  built 
would  not  only  effectually  discourage  every  colony 
from  ever  building  another,  and  thereby  leave  them 
more  exposed  to  foreign  enemies,  but  was  a  good 
reason  for  their  insisting  that  the  crown  should  never 
erect  any  hereafter  in  their  limits,  without  the  con- 
sent of  the  legislature.  The  gentlemen  had  not 
much  to  say  against  this  article,  but  thought  it 
would  hardly  be  admitted. 

The  nth  article,  it  was  thought,  would  be  strongly 
objected  to ;  that  it  would  be  urged  the  old  colonists 
could  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  affairs  of  Canada, 
whatever  we  had  with  those  of  the  Massachusetts; 
that  it  would  be  considered  as  an  officious  meddling 
merely  to  disturb  government;  and  that  some  even 
of  the  Massachusetts  acts  were  thought  by  adminis- 
tration to  be  improvements  of  that  government,  viz., 
those  altering  the  appointment  of  counsellors,  the 
choice  of  jurymen,  and  the  forbidding  of  town  meet- 
ings. I  replied,  that  we  having  assisted  in  the  con- 
quest of  Canada,  at  a  great  expense  of  blood  and 
treasure,  we  had  some  right  to  be  considered  in  the 
settlement  of  it.  That  the  establishing  an  arbitrary 
government  on  the  back  of  our  settlements  might  be 
dangerous  to  us  all;  and  that,  loving  liberty  our- 
selves, we  wished  it  to  be  extended  among  mankind, 
and  to  have  no  foundation  for  future  slavery  laid  in 
America.  That,  as  to  amending  the  Massachusetts 
government,  though  it  might  be  shown  that  every 
one  of  these  pretended  amendments  were  real  mis- 
chiefs, yet  that  charters  being  compacts  between  two 


6  The  Works  of  [1775 

parties,  the  king  and  the  people,  no  alteration  could 
be  made  in  them,  even  for  the  better,  but  by  the 
consent  of  both  parties.  That  the  Parliament's 
claim  and  exercise  of  a  power  to  alter  our  charters, 
which  had  always  been  deemed  inviolable  but  for  for- 
feiture, and  to  alter  laws  made  in  pursuance  of  these 
charters,  which  had  received  the  royal  approbation, 
and  thenceforth  deemed  fixed  and  unchangeable,  but 
by  the  powers  that  made  them,  had  rendered  all 
our  constitution  uncertain,  and  set  us  quite  afloat. 
That  as  by  claiming  a  right  to  tax  us  ad  libitum, 
they  deprived  us  of  all  property;  so,  by  this  claim  of 
altering  our  laws  and  charters  at  will,  they  deprived 
us  of  all  privilege  and  right  whatever,  but  what  we 
should  hold  at  their  pleasure.  That  this  was  a 
situation  we  could  not  be  in,  and  must  risk  life 
and  every  thing  rather  than  submit  to  it.  So  this 
article  remained. 

The  1 2th  article  I  explained  by  acquainting  the 
gentlemen  with  the  former  situation  of  the  judges  in 
most  colonies,  viz.,  that  they  were  appointed  by  the 
crown,  and  paid  by  the  assembhes.  That  the  ap- 
pointment being  during  the  pleasure  of  the  crown 
the  salary  had  been  during  the  pleasure  of  the  As- 
sembly. That,  when  it  has  been  urged  against 
the  Assembhes  that  their  making  judges  dependent 
on  them  for  their  salaries  was  aiming  at  an  undue 
influence  over  the  courts  of  justice;  the  Assemblies 
usually  replied  that  making  them  dependent  on  the 
crown  for  continuance  in  their  places  was  also  retain- 
ing an  undue  influence  over  those  courts,  and  that 
one  undue  influence  was  a  proper  balance  for  the 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  7 

other;  but  that  whenever  the  crown  would  consent 
to  acts  making  the  judges  during  good  behavior,  the 
Assemblies  would  at  the  same  time  grant  their  sal- 
aries to  be  permanent  during  their  continuance  in 
office.  This  the  crown  has,  however,  constantly 
refused.  And  this  equitable  offer  is  now  again  here 
proposed;  the  colonies  not  being  able  to  conceive 
why  their  judges  should  not  be  rendered  as  inde- 
pendent as  those  in  England.  That,  on  the  contrary, 
the  crown  now  claimed  to  make  the  judges  in  the 
colonies  dependent  on  its  favor  for  both  place  and 
salary,  both  to  be  continued  at  its  pleasure.  This  the 
colonies  must  oppose  as  inequitable,  as  putting  both 
the  weights  into  one  of  the  scales  of  justice.  If, 
therefore,  the  crown  does  not  choose  to  commission 
the  judges  during  good  behavior,  with  equally  per- 
manent salaries,  the  alternative  proposed  that  the 
salaries  continue  to  be  paid  during  the  pleasure  of 
the  AssembHes  as  heretofore.  The  gentlemen  al- 
lowed this  article  to  be  reasonable. 

The  13th  was  objected  to,  as  nothing  was  gener- 
ally thought  more  reasonable  here  than  that  the  king 
should  pay  his  own  governor,  in  order  to  render  him 
independent  of  the  people,  who  otherwise  might  aim 
at  influencing  him  against  his  duty  by  occasionally 
withholding  his  salary.  To  this  I  answered  that  gov- 
ernors sent  to  the  colonies  were  often  men  of  no 
estate  or  principle,  who  came  merely  to  make  for- 
tunes, and  had  no  natural  regard  for  the  country  they 
were  to  govern.  That  to  make  them  quite  indepen- 
dent of  the  people  was  to  make  them  careless  of  their 
conduct,  whether  it  was  beneficial  or  mischievous  to 


8  The  Works  of  [1775 

the  public,  and  giving  a  loose  to  their  rapacious  and 
oppressive  dispositions.  That  the  influence  sup- 
posed could  never  extend  to  operate  any  thing  pre- 
judicial to  the  king's  service,  or  the  interest  of 
Britain;  since  the  governor  was  bound  by  a  set  of 
particular  instructions,  which  he  had  given  surety 
to  observe ;  and  all  the  laws  he  assented  to  were  sub- 
ject to  be  repealed  by  the  crown,  if  found  improper. 
That  the  payment  of  the  salaries  by  the  people  was 
more  satisfactory  to  them,  as  it  was  productive  of  a 
good  understanding  and  mutual  good  offices  between 
governor  and  governed,  and  therefore  the  innova- 
tion lately  made  in  that  respect  at  Boston  and  New 
York  had,  in  my  opinion,  better  be  laid  aside.  So 
this  article  was  suffered  to  remain. 

But  the  14th  was  thought  totally  inadmissible. 
The  monopoly  of  the  American  commerce  could 
never  be  given  up,  and  proposing  it  would  only  give 
offence  without  answering  any  good  purpose.  I  was 
therefore  prevailed  on  to  strike  it  wholly  out. 

The  15th  was  readily  agreed  to. 

The  1 6th  it  was  thought  would  be  of  little  con- 
sequence, if  the  duties  were  given  to  the  colony 
treasuries. 

The  1 7th  it  was  thought  could  hardly  be  obtained, 
but  might  be  tried. 

Thus  having  gone  through  the  whole,  I  was  desired 
to  make  a  fair  copy  for  Dr.  Fothergill,  who  now  in- 
formed us  that  having  an  opportunity  of  seeing  daily 
Lord  Dartmouth,  of  whose  good  disposition  he  had  a 
high  opinion,  he  would  communicate  the  paper  to 
him,  as  the  sentiments  of  considerate  persons,  who 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  9 

wished  the  welfare  of  both  countries.  "Suppose," 
said  Mr.  Barclay,  "  I  were  to  show  this  paper  to  Lord 
Hyde ;  would  there  be  any  thing  amiss  in  so  doing  ? 
He  is  a  very  knowing  man;  and,  though  not  in  the 
ministry,  properly  speaking,  he  is  a  good  deal  at- 
tended to  by  them.  I  have  some  acquaintance  with 
him;  we  converse  freely  sometimes;  and,  perhaps, 
if  he  and  I  were  to  talk  these  articles  over,  and  I 
should  communicate  to  him  our  conversation  upon 
them,  some  good  might  arise  out  of  it. "  Dr.  Fother- 
gill  had  no  objection,  and  I  said  I  could  have  none. 
I  knew  Lord  Hyde  a  little,  and  had  an  esteem  for 
him.  I  had  drawn  the  paper  at  their  request,  and 
it  was  now  theirs  to  do  with  it  what  they  pleased. 
Mr.  Barclay  then  proposed  that  I  should  send  the 
fair  copy  to  him,  which,  after  making  one  for  Dr. 
Fothergill  and  one  for  himself,  he  would  return  to 
me.  Another  question  then  arose,  whether  I  had 
any  objection  to  their  mentioning  that  I  had  been 
consulted.  I  said  none  that  related  to  myself; 
but  it  was  my  opinion,  if  they  wished  any  atten- 
tion paid  to  the  propositions,  it  would  be  better 
not  to  mention  me;  the  ministry  having,  as  I 
conceived,  a  prejudice  against  me,  and  every  thing 
that  came  from  me.  They  said  on  that  consider- 
ation it  might  be  best  not  to  mention  me ;  and  so  it 
was  concluded.  For  my  own  part,  I  kept  this 
whole  proceeding  a  profound  secret;  but  I  soon 
after  discovered  that  it  had  taken  air  by  some  means 
or  other. 

Being  much  interrupted  the  day  following,  I  did 
not  copy  and  send  the  paper.     The  next  morning  I 


lo  The  Works  of  [1775 

received  a  note  '  from  Mr.  Barclay,  pressing  to  have 
it  before  twelve  o'clock.  I  accordingly  sent  it  to 
him.  Three  days  after  I  received  the  following  note 
from  him : 

"D.  Barclay  presents  his  respects,  and  acquaints 
Dr.  Franklin  that,  being  informed  a  pamphlet,  en- 
titled 'A  Friendly  Address,'  has  been  dispersed  to 
the  disadvantage  of  America  (in  particular  by  the 
Dean  of  Norwich),  he  desires  Dr.  F.  will  peruse  the 
enclosed,  just  come  to  hand  from  America,  and,  if 
he  approves  of  it,  republish  it,  as  D.  B.  wishes  some- 
thing might  be  properly  spread  in  Norwich.  D.  B. 
saw  to-day  a  person  with  whom  he  had  been  yester- 
day (before  he  called  on  Dr.  F.),  and  had  the  satis- 
faction of  walking  part  of  the  way  with  him  to 
another  noble  person's  house,  to  meet  on  the  busi- 
ness, and  he  told  him  that  he  could  say  that  he  saw 
some  light. 

"  Cheapside,  nth  instant." 

The  person  so  met  and  accompanied  by  Mr.  Bar- 
clay I  understood  to  be  Lord  Hyde,  going  either 
to  Lord  Dartmouth's  or  Lord  North's,  I  know  not 
which. 

In  the  following  week  arrived  the  proceedings  of 
the  Congress,  which  had  been  long  and  anxiously 
expected,  both  by  the  friends  and  adversaries  of 
America. 

I  Dec.  8th.  D.  Barclay  presents  his  respects  to  Dr.  Franklin  and 
requests  to  receive  the  paper  to-day  by  12  o'clock,  if  he  can  fiimish  it 
with  conveniency,  otherwise  as  soon  after  as  best  suits  him. 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  ii 

The  petition  of  Congress  to  the  king  was  enclosed 
to  me,  and  accompanied  by  the  following  letter  from 
their  president,  addressed  to  the  American  agents  in 
London,  as  follows : 

"  To  Paul  Wentworth,  Esquire,  Dr.  Benjamin  Franklin, 
William  Bollan,  Esquire,  Dr.  Arthur  Lee,  Thomas 
Life,  Esquire,  Edmund  Burke,  Esquire,  Charles 
Garth,  Esquire. 

"Philadelphia,  October  26,  1774. 

"Gentlemen: — We  give  you  the  strongest  proof 
of  our  reliance  on  your  zeal  and  attachment  to  the 
happiness  of  America,  and  the  cause  of  liberty,  when 
we  commit  the  enclosed  papers  to  your  care. 

"  We  desire  you  will  deliver  the  petition  into  the 
hands  of  his  Majesty,  and  after  it  has  been  presented, 
we  wish  it  may  be  made  public  through  the  press, 
together  with  the  list  of  grievances.  And  as  we  hope 
for  great  assistance  from  the  spirit,  virtue,  and  jus- 
tice of  the  nation,  it  is  our  earnest  desire  that  the 
most  effectual  care  be  taken,  as  early  as  possible,  to 
furnish  the  trading  cities  and  manufacturing  towns 
throughout  the  United  Kingdom  with  our  memorial 
to  the  people  of  Great  Britain. 

"  We  doubt  not  but  that  your  good  sense  and  dis- 
cernment will  lead  you  to  avail  yourselves  of  every 
assistance  that  may  be  derived  from  the  advice  and 
friendship  of  all  great  and  good  men  who  may  in- 
cline to  aid  the  cause  of  liberty  and  mankind. 

"The  gratitude  of  America,  expressed  in  the  en- 
closed vote  of  thanks,  we  desire  may  be  conveyed 


12  The  Works  of  [1775 

to  the  deserving  objects  of  it,  in  the  manner  that  you 
think  will  be  most  acceptable  to  them. ' 

"It  is  proposed  that  another  Congress  be  held  on 
the  loth  of  May  next,  at  this  place,  but  in  the  mean- 
time we  beg  the  favor  of  you,  gentlemen,  to  transmit 
to  the  Speakers  of  the  several  Assemblies,  the  earliest 
information  of  the  most  authentic  accounts  you  can 
collect,  of  all  such  conduct  and  designs  of  ministry 
or  Parliament,  as  it  may  concern  America  to  know. 
We  are,  with  unfeigned  esteem  and  regard,  gentle- 
men, etc.  By  order  of  the  Congress. 

"Henry  Middleton,  President." 

The  first  impression  made  by  the  proceedings  of 
the  American  Congress  on  the  people  in  general,  was 
greatly  in  our  favor.  Administration  seemed  to  be 
staggered,  were  impatient  to  know  whether  the  Peti- 
tion mentioned  in  the  proceedings  was  come  to  my 
hands,  and  took  a  roundabout  method  of  obtaining 
that  information,  by  getting  a  ministerial  merchant, 
a  known  intimate  of  the  Solicitor-General,  to  write 
me  a  letter,  importing  that  he  heard  I  had  received 
such  a  petition,  that  I  was  to  be  attended  in  present- 
ing it  by  the  merchants,  and  begging  to  know  the 
time,  that  he  might  attend  "on  so  important  an 
occasion,  and  give  his  testimony  to  so  good  a  work." 
Before  these  proceedings  arrived,  it  had  been  given 

'This  vote  of  thanks  was  as  follows:  "October  25,  1774.  Re- 
solved, That  this  Congress,  in  their  own  names,  and  in  the  behalf  of  all 
those  whom  they  represent,  do  present  their  most  grateful  acknow- 
ledgments to  those  trtily  noble,  honorable,  and  patriotic  advocates  of 
civil  and  religious  liberty,  who  have  so  generously  and  powerfully, 
though  tmsuccessfully,  espoused  and  defended  the  cause  of  America, 
both  in  and  out  of  Parliament." — Editor. 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  13 

out  that  no  petition  from  the  Congress  could  be  re- 
ceived, as  they  were  an  illegal  body ;  but  the  Secretary 
of  State  after  a  day's  perusal  (during  which  a  council 
was  held),  told  us  it  was  a  decent  and  proper  peti- 
tion, and  cheerfully  undertook  to  present  it  to  his 
Majesty,  who,  he  afterwards  assured  us,  was  pleased 
to  receive  it  very  graciously,  and  to  promise  to  lay  it, 
as  soon  as  they  met,  before  his  two  Houses  of  Par- 
liament; and  we  had  reason  to  believe  that,  at  that 
time,  the  petition  was  intended  to  be  made  the 
foundation  of  some  change  of  measures;  but  that 
purpose,  if  such  there  were,  did  not  long  continue. 

About  this  time,  I  received  a  letter  from  Mr.  Bar- 
clay, then  at  Norwich,  dated  December  i8th,  ex- 
pressing his  opinion,  that  it  might  be  best  to  postpone 
taking  any  further  steps  in  the  affair  of  procuring  a 
meeting  and  petition  of  the  merchants,  (on  which  we 
had  had  several  consultations,)  till  after  the  holidays, 
thereby  to  give  the  proceedings  of  Congress  more 
time  to  work  upon  men's  minds;  adding:  "I  Hke- 
wise  consider  that  our  superiors  will  have  some  little 
time  for  reflection,  and  perhaps  may  contemplate 
on  the  propriety  of  the  '  Hints  '  in  their  possession. 
By  a  few  lines  I  have  received  from  Lord  Hyde,  he 
intimates  his  hearty  wish  that  they  may  be  pro- 
ductive of  what  may  be  practicable  and  advan- 
tageous for  the  mother  country  and  the  colonies." 

On  the  2 2d,  Mr.  Barclay  was  come  to  town,  when 
I  dined  with  him,  and  learnt  that  Lord  Hyde  thought 
the  propositions  too  hard. 

On  the  24th,  I  received  the  following  note  from  a 
considerable  merchant  in  the  city,  viz. : 


14  The  Works  of  [1775 

"  Mr.  William  Neate  presents  his  most  respectful 
compliments  to  Dr.  Franklin,  and,  as  a  report  pre- 
vailed yesterday  evening  that  all  the  disputes  be- 
tween Great  Britain  and  the  American  colonies 
were,  through  his  application  and  influence  with 
Lord  North,  amicably  settled,  conformable  to  the 
wish  and  desire  of  the  late  Congress,  W.  N.  desires 
the  favor  of  Dr.  Franklin  to  inform  him  by  a  line, 
per  the  bearer,  whether  there  is  any  credit  to  be  given 
to  the  report. 

"  St.  Mary  Hill,  24th  December,  1774." 

My  answer  was  to  this  effect ;  that  I  should  be  very 
happy  to  be  able  to  inform  him  that  the  report  he 
had  heard  had  some  truth  in  it;  but  I  could  only 
assure  him  that  I  knew  nothing  of  the  matter.  Such 
reports,  however,  were  confidently  circulated,  and 
had  some  effect  in  recovering  the  stocks,  which  had 
fallen  three  or  four  per  cent. 

On  Christmas-day,  visiting  Mrs.  Howe,  she  told 
me  as  soon  as  I  came  in,  that  her  brother.  Lord 
Howe,  wished  to  be  acquainted  with  me ;  that  he  was 
a  very  good  man,  and  she  was  sure  we  should  like 
each  other.  I  said  I  had  always  heard  a  good  char- 
acter of  Lord  Howe,  and  should  be  proud  of  the 
honor  of  being  known  to  him.  "  He  is  but  just  by," 
said  she;  "will  you  give  me  leave  to  send  for  him?" 
"By  all  means,  madam,  if  you  think  proper."  She 
rang  for  a  servant,  wrote  a  note,  and  Lord  Howe 
came  in  a  few  minutes. 

After  some  extremely  polite  compliments  as  to  the 
general  motives  for  his  desiring  an  acquaintance  with 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  15 

me,  he  said  he  had  a  particular  one  at  this  time, 
which  was  the  alarming  situation  of  our  affairs  with 
America,  which  no  one,  he  was  persuaded,  understood 
better  than  myself;  that  it  was  the  opinion  of  some 
friends  of  his  that  no  man  could  do  more  towards 
reconciling  our  differences  than  I  could,  if  I  would 
undertake  it;  that  he  was  sensible  that  I  had  been 
very  ill-treated  by  the  ministry,  but  he  hoped  that 
would  not  be  considered  by  me  in  the  present  case; 
that  he  himself,  though  not  in  opposition,  had  much 
disapproved  of  their  conduct  towards  me ;  that  some 
of  them,  he  was  sure,  were  ashamed  of  it  and  sorry 
it  had  happened;  which  he  supposed  must  be  suffi- 
cient to  abate  resentment  in  a  great  and  generous 
mind;  that,  if  he  were  himself  in  administration,  he 
should  be  ready  to  make  me  ample  satisfaction, 
which,  he  was  persuaded,  would  one  day  or  other  be 
done;  that  he  was  unconnected  with  the  ministry, 
except  by  some  personal  friendships,  wished  well, 
however,  to  government,  was  anxious  for  the  general 
welfare  of  the  whole  empire,  and  had  a  particular 
regard  for  New  England,  which  had  shown  a  very 
endearing  respect  to  his  family ;  that  he  was  merely 
an  independent  member  of  Parliament,  desirous  of 
doing  what  good  he  could,  agreeably  to  his  duty 
in  that  station;  that  he  therefore  had  wished  for 
an  opportunity  of  obtaining  my  sentiments  on  the 
means  of  reconciling  our  differences,  which  he  saw 
must  be  attended  with  the  most  mischievous  con- 
sequences, if  not  speedily  accommodated;  that  he 
hoped  his  zeal  for  the  public  welfare  would,  with 
me,  excuse  the  impertinence  of  a  mere  stranger,  who 


i6  The  Works  of  [1775 

could  have  otherwise  no  reason  to  expect,  or  right  to 
request,  me  to  open  my  mind  to  him  on  these  topics ; 
but  he  did  conceive  that,  if  I  would  indulge  him  with 
my  ideas  of  the  means  proper  to  bring  about  a  recon- 
ciliation, it  might  be  of  some  use;  that  perhaps  I 
might  not  be  willing  myself  to  have  any  direct  com- 
munication with  this  ministry  on  this  occasion;  that 
I  might  likewise  not  care  to  have  it  known  that  I  had 
any  indirect  communication  with  them,  till  I  could  be 
well  assured  of  their  good  dispositions;  that,  being 
himself  upon  no  ill  terms  with  them,  he  thought  it 
not  impossible  that  he  might,  by  conveying  my  senti- 
ments to  them  and  theirs  to  me,  be  a  means  of  bring- 
ing on  a  good  understanding,  without  committing 
either  them  or  me,  if  his  negotiation  should  not  suc- 
ceed ;  and  that  I  might  rely  on  his  keeping  perfectly 
secret  every  thing  I  should  wish  to  remain  so. 

Mrs.  Howe  here  offering  to  withdraw,  whether  of 
herself,  or  from  any  sign  by  him,  I  know  not,  I  beg- 
ged she  might  stay,  as  I  should  have  no  secret  in  a 
business  of  this  nature  that  I  could  not  freely  confide 
to  her  prudence;  which  was  truth;  for  I  had  never 
conceived  a  higher  opinion  of  the  discretion  and  ex- 
cellent understanding  of  any  woman  on  so  short  an 
acquaintance.  I  added  that,  though  I  had  never  be- 
fore the  honor  of  being  in  his  lordship's  company, 
his  manner  was  such  as  had  already  engaged  my  con- 
fidence, and  would  make  me  perfectly  easy  and  free 
in  communicating  myself  to  him. 

I  begged  him,  in  the  first  place,  to  give  me  credit 
for  a  sincere  desire  of  healing  the  breach  between  the 
two  countries;   that  I  would  cheerfully  and  heartily 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  17 

do  every  thing  in  my  small  power  to  accomplish  it; 
but  that  I  apprehended  from  the  king's  speech,  and 
from  the  measures  talked  of,  as  well  as  those  already 
determined  on,  no  intention  or  disposition  of  the  kind 
existed  in  the  present  ministry,  and  therefore  no  ac- 
commodation could  be  expected  till  we  saw  a  change. 
That,  as  to  what  his  Lordship  mentioned  of  the  per- 
sonal injuries  done  me,  those  done  my  country  were 
so  much  greater,  that  I  did  not  think  the  other,  at 
this  time,  worth  mentioning;  that,  besides,  it  was  a 
fixed  rule  with  me,  not  to  mix  my  private  affairs 
with  those  of  the  public;  that  I  could  join  with  my 
personal  enemy  in  serving  the  public,  or,  when  it  was 
for  its  interest,  with  the  public  in  serving  that  enemy ; 
these  being  my  sentiments,  his  lordship  might  be 
assured  that  no  private  considerations  of  the  kind 
should  prevent  my  being  as  useful  in  the  present  case 
as  my  small  ability  would  permit. 

He  appeared  satisfied  and  pleased  with  these  dec- 
larations, and  gave  it  me  as  his  sincere  opinion,  that 
some  of  the  ministry  were  extremely  well  disposed  to 
any  reasonable  accommodation,  preserving  only  the 
dignity  of  government;  and  he  wished  me  to  draw 
up  in  writing  some  propositions  containing  the  terms 
on  which  I  conceived  a  good  understanding  might  be 
obtained  and  established,  and  the  mode  of  proceed- 
ing to  accomplish  it;  which  propositions,  as  soon  as 
prepared,  we  might  meet  to  consider,  either  at  his 
house,  or  at  mine,  or  where  I  pleased;  but,  as  his 
being  seen  at  my  house,  or  me  at  his,  might,  he 
thought,  occasion  some  speculation,  it  was  concluded 
to  be  best  to  meet  at  his  sister's,  who  readily  offered 


1 8  The  Works  of  [1775 

her  house  for  the  purpose,  and  where  there  was  a 
good  pretense  with  her  family  and  friends  for  my  be- 
ing often  seen,  as  it  was  known  we  played  together 
at  chess.  I  undertook,  accordingly,  to  draw  up 
something  of  the  kind;  and  so  for  that  time  we 
parted,  agreeing  to  meet  at  the  same  place  again  on 
the  Wednesday  following. 

I  dined  about  this  time  by  invitation  with  Gov- 
ernor Pownall.  There  was  no  company  but  the 
family;  and  after  dinner  we  had  a  tete-a-tete.  He 
had  been  in  the  opposition;  but  was  now  about 
making  his  peace,  in  order  to  come  into  Parliament 
upon  ministerial  interest,  which  I  did  not  then  know. 
He  told  me,  what  I  had  before  been  told  by  several 
of  Lord  North's  friends,  that  the  American  measures 
were  not  the  measures  of  that  minister,  nor  approved 
by  him ;  that,  on  the  contrary,  he  was  well  disposed 
to  promote  a  reconciliation  upon  any  terms  honor- 
able to  government;  that  I  had  been  looked  upon 
as  the  great  fomenter  of  the  opposition  in  America, 
and  as  a  great  adversary  to  any  accommodation; 
that  he.  Governor  P.,  had  given  a  different  account 
of  me,  and  had  told  his  lordship  that  I  was  certainly 
much  misunderstood.  From  the  governor's  further 
discourse  I  collected,  that  he  wished  to  be  employed 
as  an  envoy  or  commissioner  to  America,  to  settle 
the  differences,  and  to  have  me  with  him;  but,  as  I 
apprehended  there  was  little  likelihood  that  either 
of  us  would  be  so  employed  by  government,  I  did  not 
give  much  attention  to  that  part  of  his  discourse. 

I  should  have  mentioned  in  its  place  (but  one  can- 
not recollect  every  thing  in  order),  that,  declining  at 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  19 

first  to  draw  up  the  propositions  desired  by  Lord 
Howe,  I  alleged  its  being  unnecessary,  since  the 
Congress  in  their  petition  to  the  king,  just  then 
received  and  presented  through  Lord  Dartmouth, 
had  stated  their  grievances,  and  pointed  out  very  ex- 
plicitly what  would  restore  the  ancient  harmony ;  and 
I  read  a  part  of  the  petition  to  show  their  good  dis- 
positions, which,  being  very  pathetically  expressed, 
seemed  to  affect  both  the  brother  and  sister.  But 
still  I  was  desired  to  give  my  ideas  of  the  steps  to  be 
taken,  in  case  some  of  the  propositions  in  the  petition 
should  not  be  thought  admissible.  And  this,  as  I 
said  before,  I  undertook  to  do. 

I  had  promised  Lord  Chatham  to  communicate  to 
him  the  first  important  news  I  should  receive  from 
America.  I  therefore  sent  him  the  proceedings  of 
the  Congress  as  soon  as  I  received  them ;  but  a  whole 
week  passed  after  I  received  the  petition,  before  I 
could,  as  I  wished  to  do,  wait  upon  him  with  it,  in 
order  to  obtain  his  sentiments  on  the  whole;  for  my 
time  was  taken  up  in  meetings  with  the  other  agents 
to  consult  about  presenting  the  petition,  in  waiting 
three  different  days  with  them  on  Lord  Dartmouth, 
in  consulting  upon  and  writing  letters  to  the  Speakers 
of  Assemblies,  and  other  business,  which  did  not 
allow  me  a  day  to  go  to  Hayes. 

At  last,  on  Monday,  the  26th,  I  got  out,  and  was 
there  about  one  o'clock.  He  received  me  with  an 
affectionate  kind  of  respect,  that  from  so  great  a  man 
was  extremely  engaging;  but  the  opinion  he  ex- 
pressed of  the  Congress  was  still  more  so.  They  had 
acted,  he  said,  with  so  much  temper,  moderation,  and 


20  The  Works  of  [1775 

wisdom,  that  he  thought  it  the  raost  honorable  as- 
sembly of  statesmen  since  those  of  the  ancient  Greeks 
and  Romans,  in  the  most  virtuous  times.  That 
there  were  not  in  their  whole  proceedings  above  one 
or  two  things  he  could  have  wished  otherwise;  per- 
haps but  one,  and  that  was  their  assertion  that  the 
keeping  up  a  standing  army  in  the  colonies  in  time 
of  peace,  without  consent  of  their  legislatures,  was 
against  law.  He  doubted  that  was  not  well  founded, 
and  that  the  law  alluded  to  did  not  extend  to  the 
colonies.  The  rest  he  admired  and  honored.  He 
thought  the  petition  decent,  manly,  and  properly  ex- 
pressed. He  inquired  much  and  particularly  con- 
cerning the  state  of  America,  the  probability  of  their 
perseverance,  the  difBculties  they  must  meet  with  in 
adhering  for  any  long  time  to  their  resolutions,  the 
resources  they  might  have  to  supply  the  deficiency 
of  commerce;  to  all  which  I  gave  him  answers  with 
which  he  seemed  well  satisfied.  He  expressed  a 
great  regard  and  warm  affection  for  that  country, 
with  hearty  wishes  for  their  prosperity;  and  that 
government  here  might  soon  come  to  see  its  mis- 
takes, and  rectify  them;  and  intimated  that  pos- 
sibly he  might,  if  his  health  permitted,  prepare 
something  for  its  consideration,  when  the  Parliament 
should  meet  after  the  holidays;  on  which  he  should 
wish  to  have  previously  my  sentiments. 

I  mentioned  to  him  the  very  hazardous  state  I  con- 
ceived we  were  in,  by  the  continuance  of  the  army  in 
Boston ;  that  whatever  disposition  there  might  be  in 
the  inhabitants  to  give  no  just  cause  of  offence  to  the 
troops,  or  in  the  general  to  preserve  order  among 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  21 

them,  an  unpremeditated,  unforeseen  quarrel  might 
happen  between  perhaps  a  drunken  porter  and  a  sol- 
dier, that  might  bring  on  a  riot,  tumult,  and  blood- 
shed, and  in  its  consequences  produce  a  breach 
impossible  to  be  healed;  that  the  army  could  not 
possibly  answer  any  good  purpose  there,  and  might  be 
infinitely  mischievous ;  that  no  accommodation  could 
properly  be  proposed  and  entered  into  by  Ameri- 
cans while  the  bayonet  was  at  their  breasts;  that  to 
have  an  agreement  binding,  all  force  should  be  with- 
drawn. His  lordship  seemed  to  think  these  senti- 
ments had  something  in  them  that  was  reasonable. 

From  Hayes  I  went  to  Halstead,  Mr.  Sargent's 
place,  to  dine,  intending  thence  to  visit  Lord  Stan- 
hope at  Chevening;  but  hearing  that  his  lordship 
and  the  family  were  in  town,  I  stayed  at  Halstead  all 
night,  and  the  next  morning  went  to  Chislehurst  to 
call  upon  Lord  Camden,  it  being  in  my  way  to  town. 
I  met  his  lordship  and  family  in  two  carriages  just 
without  his  gate,  going  on  a  visit  of  congratulation 
to  Lord  Chatham  and  his  lady,  on  the  late  marriage 
of  their  daughter  to  Lord  Mahon,  son  of  Lord  Stan- 
hope. The  were  to  be  back  at  dinner;  so  I  agreed 
to  go  in,  stay  dinner,  and  spend  the  evening  there, 
and  not  return  to  town  till  next  morning.  We  had 
that  afternoon  and  evening  a  great  deal  of  conversa- 
tion on  American  affairs,  concerning  which  he  was 
very  inquisitive,  and  I  gave  him  the  best  information 
in  my  power.  I  was  charmed  with  his  generous  and 
noble  sentiments;  and  had  the  great  pleasure  of 
hearing  his  full  approbation  of  the  proceedings  of 
the  Congress,  the  petition,  etc.,  etc.,  of  which,  at  his 


22  The  Works  of  [1775 

request,  I  afterwards  sent  him  a  copy.  He  seemed 
anxious  that  the  Americans  should  continue  to  act 
with  the  same  temper,  coolness,  and  wisdom  with 
which  they  had  hitherto  proceeded  in  most  of  their 
public  assemblies,  in  which  case  he  did  not  doubt 
they  would  succeed  in  establishing  their  rights,  and 
obtain  a  solid  and  durable  agreement  with  the 
mother  country;  of  the  necessity  and  great  impor- 
tance of  which  agreement,  he  seemed  to  have  the 
strongest  impressions. 

I  returned  to  town  the  next  morning,  in  time  to 
meet  at  the  hour  appointed  by  Lord  Howe.  I  apol- 
ogized for  my  not  being  ready  with  the  paper  I  had 
promised,  by  my  having  been  kept  longer  than  I  in- 
tended in  the  country.  We  had,  however,  a  good 
deal  of  conversation  on  the  subject,  and  his  lord- 
ship told  me  he  could  now  assure  me,  of  a  certainty, 
that  there  was  a  sincere  disposition  in  Lord  North 
and  Lord  Dartmouth  to  accommodate  the  differences 
with  America,  and  to  listen  favorably  to  any  propo- 
sition that  might  have  a  probable  tendency  to  an- 
swer that  salutary  purpose.  He  then  asked  me 
what  I  thought  of  sending  some  person  or  persons 
over,  commissioned  to  inquire  into  the  grievances  of 
America  upon  the  spot,  converse  with  the  leading 
people,  and  endeavor  with  them  to  agree  upon  some 
means  of  composing  our  differences.  I  said  that 
a  person  of  rank  and  dignity,  who  had  a  character  of 
candor,  integrity,  and  wisdom,  might  possibly,  if  em- 
ployed in  that  service,  be  of  great  use. 

He  seemed  to  be  of  the  same  opinion,  and  that 
whoever  was  employed   should   go  with   a  hearty 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  23 

desire  of  promoting  a  sincere  reconciliation,  on  the 
foundation  of  mutual  interests  and  mutual  good- 
will; that  he  should  endeavor,  not  only  to  remove 
their  prejudices  against  government,  but  equally  the 
prejudices  of  government  against  them,  and  bring 
on  a  perfect  good  understanding,  etc.  Mrs.  Howe 
said:  "I  wish,  brother,  you  were  to  be  sent  thither 
on  such  a  service ;  I  should  like  that  much  better  than 
General  Howe's  going  to  command  the  army  there." 
"I  think,  madam,"  said  I,  "they  ought  to  provide 
for  General  Howe  some  more  honorable  employ- 
ment." Lord  Howe  here  took  out  of  his  pocket  a 
paper,  and  offering  it  to  me  said,  smiUng:  "If  it  is 
not  an  unfair  question,  may  I  ask  whether  you  know 
any  thing  of  this  paper?"  Upon  looking  at  it,  I 
saw  it  was  a  copy,  in  David  Barclay's  hand,  of  the 
"Hints"  before  recited;  and  said  that  I  had  seen 
it;  adding,  a  little  after,  that  since  I  perceived  his 
lordship  was  acquainted  with  the  transaction,  my 
concern  in  which  I  had  understood  was  to  have  been 
kept  a  secret,  I  should  make  no  difficulty  in  owning 
to  him  that  I  had  been  consulted  on  the  subject,  and 
had  drawn  up  that  paper.  He  said  he  was  rather 
sorry  to  find  that  the  sentiments  expressed  in  it 
were  mine,  as  it  gave  him  less  hopes  of  promoting, 
by  my  assistance,  the  wished-for  reconciliation; 
since  he  had  reason  to  think  there  was  no  likeli- 
hood of  the  admission  of  those  propositions.  He 
hoped,  however,  that  I  would  reconsider  the  subject, 
and  form  some  plan  that  would  be  acceptable  here. 
He  expatiated  on  the  infinite  service  it  would  be  to 
the  nation,   and  the  great  merit  in  being  instru- 


24  The  Works  of  [1775 

mental  in  so  good  a  work ;  that  he  should  not  think 
of  influencing  me  by  any  selfish  motive,  but  cer- 
tainly I  might  with  reason  expect  any  reward  in  the 
power  of  government  to  bestow. 

This  to  me  was  what  the  French  vulgarly  call  spit- 
ting in  the  soup.  However,  I  promised  to  draw  some 
sketch  of  a  plan,  at  his  request,  though  I  much 
doubted,  I  said,  whether  it  would  be  thought  prefer- 
able to  that  he  had  in  his  hand.  But  he  was  wiUing 
to  hope  that  it  v/ould;  and,  as  he  considered  my 
situation,  that  I  had  friends  here  and  constituents 
in  America  to  keep  well  with,  that  I  might  possibly 
propose  something  improper  to  be  seen  in  my  hand- 
writing; therefore,  it  would  be  better  to  send  it  to 
Mrs.  Howe,  who  would  copy  it,  send  the  copy  to 
him  to  be  communicated  to  the  ministry,  and  return 
me  the  original.  This  I  agreed  to,  though  I  did 
not  apprehend  the  inconvenience  he  mentioned.  In 
general,  I  liked  much  his  manner,  and  found  myself 
disposed  to  place  great  confidence  in  him  on  occa- 
sion; but  in  this  particular  the  secrecy  he  proposed 
seemed  not  of  much  importance. 

In  a  day  or  two  I  sent  the  following  paper,  en- 
closed in  a  cover,  directed  to  the  Honorable  Mrs. 
Howe. 

"It  is  supposed  to  be  the  wish  on  both  sides  not 
merely  to  put  a  stop  to  the  mischief  at  present 
threatening  the  general  welfare,  but  to  cement  a 
cordial  union,  and  remove,  not  only  every  real 
grievance,  but  every  cause  of  jealousy  and  suspicion. 

"  With  this  view,  the  first  thing  necessary  is  to  know 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  25 

what  is,  by  the  different  parties  in  the  dispute, 
thought  essentially  necessary  for  the  obtaining  such 
a  union. 

"The  American  Congress,  in  their  petition  to  the 
king,  have  been  explicit,  declaring  that  by  a  repeal 
of  the  oppressive  acts  therein  complained  of,  the 
harmony  between  Great  Britain  and  the  colonies,  so 
necessary  to  the  happiness  of  both,  and  so  ardently  de- 
sired of  them,  will,  with  the  usual  intercourse,  be  im- 
mediately restored. 

"  If  it  has  been  thought  reasonable  here  to  expect 
that,  previous  to  an  alteration  of  measures,  the  col- 
onies should  make  some  declaration  respecting  their 
future  conduct,  they  have  also  done  that  by  adding: 
That  when  the  causes  of  their  apprehensions  are  re- 
moved, their  future  conduct  will  prove  them,  not  un- 
worthy of  the  regard  they  have  been  accustomed  in 
their  happier  days  to  enjoy. 

"  For  their  sincerity  in  these  declarations,  they  sol- 
emnly call  to  witness  the  Searcher  of  all  hearts. 

"  If  Britain  can  have  any  reliance  on  these  declara- 
tions (and  perhaps  none  to  be  extorted  by  force  can 
be  more  relied  on  than  these,  which  are  thus  freely 
made),  she  may,  without  hazard  to  herself,  try  the 
expedient  proposed,  since,  if  it  fails,  she  has  it  in  her 
power  at  any  time  to  resume  her  present  measuires. 

"It  is  then  proposed:  That  Britain  should  show 
some  confidence  in  these  declarations,  by  repealing 
all  the  laws,  or  parts  of  laws,  that  are  requested  to  be 
repealed  in  the  petition  of  the  Congress  to  the  king; 
And  that,  at  the  same  time,  orders  should  be  given 
to  withdraw  the  fleet  from  Boston,  and  remove  all  the 


26  The  Works  of  [1775 

troops  to  Quebec,  or  the  Floridas,  that  the  colonies 
may  be  left  at  perfect  liberty  in  their  future  stipu- 
lations. 

' '  That  this  may,  for  the  honor  of  Britain,  appear 
not  the  effect  of  any  apprehension  from  the  measures 
entered  into  and  recommended  to  the  people  by  the 
Congress,  but  from  good-will,  and  a  change  of  dispo- 
sition towards  the  colonies,  with  a  sincere  desire 
of  reconciliation,  let  some  of  their  other  grievances, 
which  in  their  petition  they  have  left  to  the  magna- 
nimity and  justice  of  the  king  and  Parliament,  be  at 
the  same  time  removed,  such  as  those  relating  to  the 
payment  of  governors'  and  judges'  salaries,  and 
the  instructions  for  dissolving  Assemblies,  etc.,  with 
the  declarations  concerning  the  statute  of  Henry  the 
Eighth. 

"  And  to  give  the  colonies  an  immediate  opportu- 
nity of  demonstrating  the  reality  of  their  professions, 
let  their  proposed  ensuing  Congress  be  authorized  by 
government  (as  was  that  held  at  Albany,  in  1754), 
and  a  person  of  weight  and  dignity  of  character  be 
appointed  to  preside  at  it  on  behalf  of  the  crown. 

"And  then  let  requisition  be  made  to  the  Congress, 
of  such  points  as  government  wishes  to  obtain  for  its 
future  security,  for  aids,  for  the  advantage  of  general 
commerce,  for  reparation  to  the  India  Company, 
etc.,  etc. 

"A  generous  confidence  thus  placed  in  the  colonies, 
will  give  ground  to  the  friends  of  government  there, 
in  their  endeavors  to  procure  from  America  every 
reasonable  concession,  or  engagement,  and  every 
substantial  aid,  that  can  fairly  be  desired." 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  27 

On  the  Saturday  evening,  I  saw  Mrs.  Howe,  who 
informed  me  she  had  transcribed  and  sent  the  paper 
to  Lord  Howe  in  the  country,  and  she  returned  me 
the  original.  On  the  following  Tuesday,  January  3d, 
I  received  a  note  from  her  (enclosing  a  letter  she  had 
received  from  Lord  Howe  the  last  night),  as  follows: 

"Mrs.  Howe's  compliments  to  Dr.  Franklin;  she 
encloses  him  a  letter  she  received  last  night,  and  re- 
turns him  many  thanks  for  his  obliging  present,* 
which  has  already  given  her  great  entertainment. 
If  the  Doctor  has  any  spare  time  for  chess,  she  will 
be  exceedingly  glad  to  see  him  any  morning  this 
week,  and  as  often  as  will  be  agreeable  to  him,  and 
rejoices  in  having  so  good  an  excuse  for  asking  the 
favor  of  his  company. 

"  Tuesday." 

"  Porter's  Lodge,  January  2,  1775. 

"  To  The  Honorable  Mrs.  Howe,  Grafton  Street. 

"  I  have  received  your  packet ;  and  it  is  with  much 
concern  that  I  collect,  from  sentiments  of  such 
authority  as  those  of  our  worthy  friend,  that  the 
desired  accommodation  threatens  to  be  attended 
with  much  greater  difficulty  than  I  had  flattered 
myself,  in  the  progress  of  our  intercourse,  there 
would  be  reason  to  apprehend. 

"  I  shall  forward  the  propositions  as  intended,  not 
desirous  of  trespassing  further  on  our  friend's  in- 
dulgence ;  but  retaining  sentiments  of  regard,  which 
his  candid  and  obliging  attention  to  my  troublesome 

'  His  Philosophical  Writings. — W.  T.  F. 


28  The  Works  of  [1775 

inquiries  will  render  ever  permanent  to  the  memory 
of  your  affectionate,  etc.,  Howe. 

"  I  ought  to  make  excuses  likewise  to  you." 

His  lordship  had,  in  his  last  conversation  with 
me,  acknowledged  a  communication  between  him  and 
the  ministry,  to  whom  he  wished  to  make  my  senti- 
ments known.  In  this  letter  from  the  country  he 
owns  the  receipt  of  them,  and  mentions  his  intention 
of  forwarding  them,  that  is,  as  I  understood  it,  to  the 
ministers ;  but  expresses  his  apprehensions  that  such 
propositions  were  not  likely  to  produce  any  good 
effect.  Some  time  after,  perhaps  a  week,  I  received 
a  note  from  Mrs.  Howe,  desiring  to  see  me.  I 
waited  upon  her  immediately,  when  she  showed  me 
a  letter  from  her  brother,  of  which  having  no  copy, 
I  can  only  give  from  the  best  of  my  recollection  the 
purport  of  it,  which  I  think  was  this:  that  he  de- 
sired to  know  from  their  friend,  meaning  me,  through 
her  means,  whether  it  might  not  be  expected  that, 
if  that  friend  would  engage  for  their  payment  of  the 
tea  as  a  preliminary,  relying  on  a  promised  redress 
of  their  grievances  on  future  petitions  from  their 
Assembly,  they  would  approve  of  his  making  such 
engagement;  and  whether  the  proposition  in  the 
former  paper  (the  "Hints"),  relating  to  aids,  was 
still  in  contemplation  of  the  author.  As  Mrs.  Howe 
proposed  sending  to  her  brother  that  evening,  I 
wrote  immediately  the  following  answer,  which  she 
transcribed  and  forwarded: 

"  The  proposition  in  the  former  paper,  relating  to 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  29 

aids,  is  still  in  contemplation  of  the  author,  and,  as 
he  thinks,  is  included  in  the  last  article  of  the  present 
paper. 

"  The  people  of  America,  conceiving  that  Parliament 
has  no  right  to  tax  them,  and  that  therefore  all  that 
has  been  extorted  from  them  by  the  operation  of  the 
duty  acts,  with  the  assistance  of  an  armed  force,  pre- 
ceding the  destruction  of  the  tea,  is  so  much  injury, 
which  ought  in  order  of  time  to  be  first  repaired, 
before  a  demand  on  the  tea  account  can  be  justly 
made  of  them,  are  not,  he  thinks,  likely  to  approve  of 
the  measure  proposed,  and  pay  in  the  first  place  the 
value  demanded,  especially  as  twenty  times  as  much 
injury  has  since  been  done  them  by  blocking  up  their 
port;  and  their  castle  also,  seized  before  by  the 
crown,  has  not  been  restored,  nor  any  satisfaction 
offered  them  for  the  same." 

At  the  meeting  of  Parliament  after  the  holidays, 
which  was  on  the  19th  of  January,  1775,  Lord  Howe 
returned  to  town,  when  we  had  another  meeting  at 
which  he  lamented  that  my  propositions  were  not 
such  as  probably  could  be  accepted ;  intimated,  that 
it  was  thought  I  had  powers  or  instructions  from 
the  Congress  to  make  concessions  on  occasion,  that 
would  be  more  satisfactory.  I  disclaimed  the  having 
any  of  any  kind,  but  what  related  to  the  presenting 
of  their  petition.  We  talked  over  all  the  particulars 
in  my  paper,  which  I  supported  with  reasons;  and 
finally  said  that,  if  what  I  had  proposed  would  not 
do,  I  should  be  glad  to  hear  what  would  do ;  I  wished 
to  see  some  propositions  from  the  ministers  them- 


30  The  Works  of  [1775 

selves.  His  lordship  was  not,  he  said,  as  yet  fully 
acquainted  with  their  sentiments,  but  should  learn 
more  in  a  few  days.  It  was,  however,  some  weeks 
before  I  heard  any  thing  further  from  him. 

In  the  meanwhile,  Mr.  Barclay  and  I  were  fre- 
quently together  on  the  affair  of  preparing  the  mer- 
chants' petition,  which  took  up  so  much  of  his  time 
that  he  could  not  conveniently  see  Lord  Hyde;  so 
he  had  no  information  to  give  me  concerning  the 
"Hints,"  and  I  wondered  I  heard  nothing  of  them 
from  Dr.  Fothergill.  At  length,  however,  but  I  can- 
not recollect  about  what  time,  the  Doctor  called  on 
me,  and  told  me  he  had  communicated  them,  and 
with  them  had  verbally  given  my  arguments  in  sup- 
port of  them,  to  Lord  Darmouth,  who,  after  con- 
sideration, had  told  him  some  of  them  appeared 
reasonable,  but  others  were  inadmissible  or  imprac- 
ticable. That  having  occasion  to  see  frequently 
the  Speaker,'  he  had  also  communicated  them  to 
him,  as  he  found  him  very  anxious  for  a  reconcilia- 
tion. That  the  Speaker  had  said  it  would  be  very 
humiliating  to  Britain  to  be  obliged  to  submit  to 
such  terms;  but  the  Doctor  told  him  she  had  been 
unjust,  and  ought  to  bear  the  consequences,  and 
alter  her  conduct ;  that  the  pill  might  be  bitter,  but 
it  would  be  salutary,  and  must  be  swallowed.  That 
these  were  the  sentiments  of  impartial  men,  after 
thorough  consideration  and  full  information  of  all 
circumstances,  and  that  sooner  or  later  these  or 
similar  measures  must  be  followed,  or  the  empire 
would  be  divided  and  ruined.     The  Doctor,  on  the 

I  Sir  Fletcher  Norton. 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  31 

whole,  hoped  some  good  would  be  effected  by  our 
endeavors. 

On  the  19th  of  January,  I  received  a  card  from 
Lord  Stanhope,  acquainting  me  that  Lord  Chatham, 
having  a  motion  to  make  on  the  morrow  in  the  House 
of  Lords  concerning  America,  greatly  desired  that  I 
might  be  in  the  House,  into  which  Lord  Stanhope 
would  endeavor  to  procure  me  admittance.  At  this 
time  it  was  a  rule  of  the  House  that  no  person  could 
introduce  more  than  one  friend.  The  next  morning 
his  lordship  let  me  know  by  another  card  that,  if  I 
attended  at  two  o'clock  in  the  lobby,  Lord  Chatham 
would  be  there  about  that  time,  and  would  himiself 
introduce  me.  I  attended,  and  met  him  there  ac- 
cordingly. On  my  mentioning  to  him  what  Lord 
Stanhope  had  written  to  me,  he  said:  "Certainly; 
and  I  shall  do  it  with  the  more  pleasure,  as  I  am  sure 
your  being  present  at  this  day's  debate  will  be  of 
more  service  to  America  than  mine ' ' ;  and  so  taking 
me  by  the  arm  was  leading  me  along  the  passage  to 
the  door  that  enters  near  the  throne,  when  one  of  the 
door-keepers  followed,  and  acquainted  him  that,  by 
the  order,  none  were  to  be  carried  in  at  that  door  but 
the  eldest  sons  or  brothers  of  peers;  on  which  he 
limped  back  with  me  to  the  door  near  the  bar,  where 
were  standing  a  number  of  gentlemen  waiting  for 
the  peers  who  were  to  introduce  them,  and  some 
peers  waiting  for  friends  they  expected  to  introduce ; 
among  whom  he  delivered  me  to  the  door-keepers, 
saying  aloud:  "This  is  Dr.  Franklin,  whom  I  would 
have  admitted  into  the  House";  when  they  readily 
opened  the  door  for  me  accordingly. 


32  The  Works  of  [177s 

As  it  had  not  been  publicly  known  that  there  was 
any  communication  between  his  lordship  and  me,  this 
I  found  occasioned  some  speculation.  His  appear- 
ance in  the  House,  I  observed,  caused  a  kind  of 
bustle  among  the  officers,  who  were  hurried  in  send- 
ing messengers  for  members,  I  suppose  those  in 
connection  with  the  ministry,  something  of  impor- 
tance being  expected  when  that  great  man  appears; 
it  being  but  seldom  that  his  infirmities  permit  his 
attendance.  I  had  great  satisfaction  in  hearing 
his  motion  and  the  debate  upon  it,  which  I  shall  not 
attempt  to  give  here  an  account  of,  as  you  may  find 
a  better  in  the  papers  of  the  time.  It  was  his  mo- 
tion for  withdrawing  the  troops  from  Boston,  as  the 
first  step  towards  an  accommodation. 

The  day  following,  I  received  a  note  from  Lord 
Stanhope  expressing  that,  "at  the  desire  of  Lord 
Chatham,  was  sent  me  enclosed  the  motion  he  made 
in  the  House  of  Lords,  that  I  might  be  possessed  of 
it  in  the  most  authentic  manner,  by  the  communica- 
tion of  the  individual  paper  which  was  read  to  the 
House  by  the  mover  himself."  I  sent  copies  of  this 
motion  to  America,  and  was  the  more  pleased  with 
it,  as  I  conceived  it  had  partly  taken  its  rise  from  a 
hint  I  had  given  his  lordship  in  a  former  conversa- 
tion.    It  follows  in  these  words. 

"lord  Chatham's  motion,  January  20,  1775 

"  That  an  humble  address  be  presented  to  his  Maj- 
esty, most  humbly  to  advise  and  beseech  his  Majesty 
that,  in  order  to  open  the  way  towards  a  happy 
settlement   of  the   dangerous    troubles  in  America, 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  33 

by  beginning  to  allay  ferments  and  soften  animosities 
there,  and  above  all,  for  preventing  in  the  meantime 
any  sudden  and  fatal  catastrophe  at  Boston,  now 
suffering  under  the  daily  irritation  of  an  army  before 
their  eyes,  posted  in  their  town,  it  may  graciously 
please  his  Majesty  that  immediate  orders  may  be 
despatched    to    General    Gage    for    removing    his 
Majesty's  forces  from  the  town  of  Boston,  as  soon 
as  the  rigor  of  the  season  and  other  circumstances, 
indispensable  to  the  safety  and  accommodation  of 
the  said  troops,  may  render  the  same  practicable." 
I  was  quite  charmed  with  Lord  Chatham's  speech 
in  support  of  his  motion.     He  impressed  me  with 
the  highest  idea  of  him,  as  a  great  and  most  able 
statesman.^     Lord    Camden,    another    wonderfully 
good  speaker  and  close  reasoner,  joined  him  in  the 
same   argument,    as   did   several   other  lords,   who 
spoke  exceedingly  well,  but  all  availed  no  more  than 
the  whistling  of  the  winds.     The  motion  was  rejected. 
Sixteen  Scotch  peers,  and  twenty-four  bishops,  with 
all  the  lords  in  possession  or  expectation  of  places, 
when  they  vote  together  tmanimously,  as  they  gen- 
erally do  for  ministerial  measures,  make  a  dead  ma- 
jority, that  renders  all  debating  ridiculous  in  itself, 
since  it  can  answer  no  end.     Full  of  the  high  esteem 
I  had  imbibed  for  Lord  Chatham,  I  wrote  back  to 
Lord  Stanhope  the  following  note,  viz. : 

^  It  was  reported  at  the  time  that  his  lordship  had  concluded  his 
speech  with  the  following  remarkable  words:  "If  the  ministers  thtis 
persevere  in  misadvising  and  misleading  the  king,  I  will  not  say  that 
they  can  alienate  the  affections  of  his  subjects  from  his  crown,  but  I 
will  affirm  that  they  will  make  the  crown  not  worth  his  wearing.  I  will 
not  say  that  the  king  is  betrayed,  but  I  will  pronounce  that  the  kin-dcm 


ts  undone." — W.  T.  F 

VOL.    VII. 


34  The  Works  of  [1775 

"  Dr.  Franklin  presents  his  best  respects  to  Lord 
Stanhope,  with  many  thanks  to  his  lordship  and 
Lord  Chatham  for  the  communication  of  so  authentic 
a  copy  of  the  motion.  Dr.  F.  is  filled  with  admira- 
tion of  that  truly  great  man.  He  has  seen,  in  the 
course  of  life,  sometimes  eloquence  without  wisdom, 
and  often  wisdom  without  eloquence ;  in  the  present 
instance  he  sees  both  united,  and  both,  as  he  thinks, 
in  the  highest  degree  possible. 

"  Craven  Street,  January  23,  1775." 

As  in  the  course  of  the  debate  some  lords  in  the 
administration  had  observed,  that  it  was  common 
and  easy  to  censure  their  measures,  but  those  who 
did  so  proposed  nothing  better.  Lord  Chatham 
mentioned  that  he  should  not  be  one  of  those  idle 
censurers;  that  he  had  thought  long  and  closely 
upon  the  subject,  and  proposed  soon  to  lay  before 
their  lordships  the  result  of  his  meditation,  in  a  plan 
for  healing  our  differences,  and  restoring  peace  to  the 
empire,  to  which  his  present  motion  was  prepara- 
tory. I  much  desired  to  know  what  his  plan  was, 
and  intended  waiting  on  him  to  see  if  he  would 
communicate  it  to  me,  but  he  went  the  next  morning 
to  Hayes,  and  I  was  so  much  taken  up  with  daily 
business  and  company  that  I  could  not  easily  get 
out  to  him.  A  few  days  after,  however.  Lord  Mahon 
called  on  me,  and  told  me  Lord  Chatham  was  very 
desirous  of  seeing  me,  when  I  promised  to  be  with 
him  the  Friday  following,  several  engagements 
preventing  my  going  sooner. 

On  Friday  the  27th  I  took  a  post-chaise  about 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  35 

nine  o'clock  and  got  to  Hayes  about  eleven;  but,  my 
attention  being  engaged  in  reading  a  new  pamphlet, 
the  post-boy  drove  me  a  mile  or  two  beyond  the  gate. 
His  lordship,  being  out  on  an  airing  in  his  chariot, 
had  met  me  before  I  reached  Hayes,  unobserved  by 
me,  turned  and  followed  me,  and  not  finding  me 
there,  concluded,  as  he  had  seen  me  reading,  that  I 
had  passed  by  mistake,  and  sent  a  servant  after  me. 
He  expressed  great  pleasure  at  my  coming,  and 
acquainted  me,  in  a  long  conversation,  with  the  out- 
lines of  his  plan,  parts  of  which  he  read  to  me.  He 
said  he  had  communicated  it  only  to  Lord  Camden, 
whose  advice  he  much  relied  on,  particularly  in  the 
law  part;  and  that  he  would,  as  soon  as  he  could,  get 
it  transcribed,  put  it  into  my  hands  for  my  opinion 
and  advice,  but  should  show  it  to  no  other  person  be- 
fore he  presented  it  to  the  House ;  and  he  requested 
me  to  make  no  mention  of  it,  otherwise  parts  might 
be  misunderstood  and  blown  upon  beforehand,  and 
others  perhaps  adopted  and  produced  by  ministers  as 
their  own.  I  promised  the  closest  secrecy,  and  kept 
my  word,  not  even  mentioning  to  any  one  that  I  had 
seen  him.  I  dined  with  him,  his  family  only  present, 
and  returned  to  town  in  the  evening. 

On  the  Sunday  following,  being  the  29th,  his  lord- 
ship came  to  town,  and  called  upon  me  in  Craven 
Street.  He  brought  with  him  his  plan,  transcribed 
in  the  form  of  an  act  of  Parliament,  which  he  put  in- 
to my  hands,  requesting  me  to  consider  it  carefully, 
and  communicate  to  him  such  remarks  upon  it  as 
should  occur  to  me.  His  reason  for  desiring  to  give 
me  that  trouble  was,  as  he  was  pleased  to  say,  that 


36  The  Works  of  [1775 

he  knew  no  man  so  thoroughly  acquainted  with  the 
subject,  or  so  capable  of  giving  advice  upon  it ;  that 
he  thought  the  errors  of  ministers  in  American  affairs 
had  been  often  owing  to  their  not  obtaining  the  best 
information;  that,  therefore,  though  he  had  con- 
sidered the  business  thoroughly  in  all  its  parts,  he 
was  not  confident  of  his  own  judgment,  but  that  he 
came  to  set  it  right  by  mine,  as  men  set  their  watches 
by  a  regulator.  He  had  not  determined  when  he 
should  produce  it  in  the  House  of  Lords;  but  in  the 
course  of  our  conversation,  considering  the  precari- 
ous situation  of  his  health,  and  that  if  presenting  it 
was  delayed  some  intelligence  might  arrive  which 
would  make  it  seem  less  seasonable,  or  in  all  parts  not 
so  proper,  or  the  ministry  might  engage  in  different 
measures,  and  then  say:  "  If  you  had  produced  your 
plan  sooner,  we  might  have  attended  to  it,"  he  con- 
cluded to  offer  it  the  Wednesday  following;  and 
therefore  wished  to  see  me  about  it  the  preceding 
Tuesday,  when  he  would  again  call  upon  me,  unless 
I  could  conveniently  come  to  Hayes.  I  chose  the 
latter,  in  respect  to  his  lordship,  and  because  there 
was  less  likelihood  of  interruptions;  and  I  promised 
to  be  with  him  early,  that  we  might  have  more  time. 
He  stayed  with  me  near  two  hours,  his  equipage 
waiting  at  the  door;  and  being  there  while  people 
were  coming  from  church,  it  was  much  taken  notice 
of,  and  talked  of,  as  at  that  time  was  every  little 
circumstance  that  men  thought  might  possibly  any 
way  affect  American  affairs.  Such  a  visit  from  so 
great  a  man,  on  so  important  a  business,  flattered  not 
a  little  my  vanity;   and  the  honor  of  it  gave  me  the 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  37 

more  pleasure,  as  it  happened  on  the  very  day  twelve 
months  that  the  ministry  had  taken  so  much  pains  to 
disgrace  me  before  the  Privy  Council.' 

I  applied  myself  immediately  to  the  reading  and 
considering  the  plan,  of  which,  when  it  was  after- 
wards published,  I  sent  you  a  copy,  and  therefore 
need  not  insert  it  here.  I  put  down  upon  paper,  as 
I  went  along,  some  short  memorandums  for  my 
future  discourse  with  him  upon  it,  which  follow, 
that  you  may,  if  you  please,  compare  them  with  the 
plan;  and  if  you  do  so,  you  will  see  their  drift  and 
purpose,  which  otherwise  would  take  me  much 
writing  to  explain. 

•'  NOTES  FOR  DISCOURSE  WITH  LORD  CHATHAM  ON  HIS 
PLAN 

"  Tuesday,  31  January,  1775. 

"  Voluntary  grants  and  forced  taxes  not  to  be  ex- 
pected of  the  same  people  at  the  same  time. 

"  Permanent  revenue  will  be  objected  to.  Would 
not  a  temporary  agreement  be  best,  suppose  for  one 
hundred  years  ? 

"  Does  the  whole  of  the  rights  claimed  in  the  Peti- 
tion of  Rights  relate  to  England  only  ? 

"The  American  Naturalization  Act  gives  all  the 
rights  of  natural-born  subjects  to  foreigners  residing 
there  seven  years.  Can  it  be  supposed,  that  the 
natives  there  have  them  not  ? 

"  If  the  king  should  raise  armies  in  America,  would 
Britain  like  their  being  brought  hither?  as  the  king 
might  bring  them  when  he  pleased. 

»  In  the  affair  of  Hutchinson's  letters. — Editor. 


38  The  Works  of  [1775 

"  An  act  of  Parliament  requires  the  colonies  to  fur- 
nish sundry  articles  of  provision  and  accommodation 
to  troops  quartered  among  them ;  this  may  be  made 
very  burdensome  to  colonies  that  are  out  of  favor. 

"  If  a  permanent  revenue,  why  not  the  same  priv- 
ileges in  trade  with  Scotland? 

"  Should  not  the  lands,  conquered  by  Britain  and 
the  colonies  in  conjunction,  be  given  them  (reserving 
a  quit-rent),  whence  they  might  form  funds  to  enable 
them  to  pay  ? 

"  Instructions  about  agents  to  be  withdrawn. 

"  Grants  to  be  for  three  years,  at  the  end  of  which 
a  new  Congress ;  and  so  from  three  to  three  years. 

"  Congress  to  have  the  general  defence  of  frontiers, 
making  and  regulating  new  settlements. 

"  Protection  mutual. 

"  We  go  into  all  your  wars. 

"  Our  settlements  cost  you  nothing. 

"  Take  the  plan  of  union. 

"'Defence,  extension,  and  prosperity  of.'  The 
late  Canada  Act  prevents  their  extension,  and  may 
check  their  prosperity. 

"  Laws  should  be  secure  as  well  as  charters. 

"  Perhaps  if  the  legislative  power  of  Parliament  is 
owned  in  the  colonies,  they  may  make  a  law  to  forbid 
the  meeting  of  any  Congress,"  etc. 

I  was  at  Hayes  early  on  Tuesday,  agreeable  to  my 
promise,  when  we  entered  into  consideration  of  the 
plan;  but,  though  I  stayed  near  four  hours,  his 
lordship,  in  the  manner  of,  I  think,  all  eloquent  per- 
sons, was  so  full  and  diffuse  in  supporting  every  par- 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  39 

ticular  I  questioned,  that  there  was  not  time  to  go 
through  half  my  memorandums.  He  is  not  easily 
interrupted,  and  I  had  such  pleasure  in  hearing 
him  that  I  found  little  incUnation  to  interrupt  him. 
Therefore,  considering  that  neither  of  us  had  much 
expectation  that  the  plan  would  be  adopted  entirely 
as  it  stood;  that,  in  the  course  of  its  consideration,  if 
it  should  be  received,  proper  alterations  might  be  in- 
troduced; that,  before  it  would  be  settled,  America 
should  have  opportunity  to  make  her  objections  and 
propositions  of  amendment ;  that,  to  have  it  received 
at  all  here,  it  must  seem  to  comply  a  little  with  some 
of  the  prevailing  prejudices  of  the  legislature;  that, 
if  it  was  not  so  perfect  as  might  be  wished,  it  would 
at  least  serve  as  a  basis  for  treaty,  and  in  the  mean- 
time prevent  mischiefs;  and  that,  as  his  lordship  had 
determined  to  offer  it  the  next  day,  there  was  not 
time  to  make  changes  and  another  fair  copy,  I  there- 
fore ceased  my  querying,  and,  though  afterwards 
many  people  were  pleased  to  do  me  the  honor  of 
supposing  I  had  a  considerable  share  in  composing 
it,  I  assure  you  that  the  addition  of  a  single  word 
only  was  made  at  my  instance,  viz.,  "constitutions'' 
after  "charters";  for  my  filling  up,  at  his  request,  a 
blank  with  the  titles  of  acts  proper  to  be  repealed, 
which  I  took  from  the  proceedings  of  the  Congress, 
was  no  more  than  might  have  been  done  by  any 
copying  clerk. 

On  Wednesday,  Lord  Stanhope,  at  Lord  Chat- 
ham's request,  called  upon  me,  and  carried  me  down 
to  the  House  of  Lords,  which  was  soon  very  full. 
Lord  Chatham,  in  a  most  excellent  speech,  intro- 


40  The  Works  of  [1775 

duced,  explained,  and  supported  his  plan.  When  he 
sat  down,  Lord  Dartmouth  rose,  and  very  properly- 
said  it  contained  matter  of  such  weight  and  magni- 
tude as  to  require  much  consideration;  and  he 
therefore  hoped  the  noble  earl  did  not  expect  their 
lordships  to  decide  upon  it  by  an  immediate  vote,  but 
would  be  willing  it  should  lie  upon  the  table  for  con- 
sideration. Lord  Chatham  answered  readily  that  he 
expected  nothing  more. 

But  Lord  Sandwich  rose,  and  in  a  petulant,  vehe- 
ment speech,  opposed  its  being  received  at  all,  and 
gave  his  opinion  that  it  ought  to  be  immediately 
rejected,  with  the  contempt  it  deserved;  that  he 
could  never  believe  it  to  be  the  production  of  any 
British  peer;  that  it  appeared  to  him  rather  the 
work  of  some  American ;  and  turning  his  face  towards 
me,  who  was  leaning  on  the  bar,  said  he  fancied  he 
had  in  his  eye  the  person  who  drew  it  up,  one  of  the 
bitterest  and  most  mischievous  enemies  this  country 
had  ever  known.  This  drew  the  eyes  of  many  lords 
upon  me,  but  as  I  had  no  inducement  to  take  it  to 
myself,  I  kept  my  countenance  as  immovable  as  if 
my  features  had  been  made  of  wood.  Then  several 
other  lords  of  the  administration  gave  their  senti- 
ments also  for  rejecting  it,  of  which  opinion  also  was 
strongly  the  wise  Lord  Hillsborough.  But  the  Dukes 
of  Richmond  and  Manchester,  Lord  Shelbume,  Lord 
Camden,  Lord  Temple,  Lord  Lyttleton,  and  others, 
were  for  receiving  it,  some  through  approbation,  and 
others  for  the  character  and  dignity  of  the  House. 
One  lord  mentioning  with  applause  the  candid  pro- 
posal of  one  of  the  ministers.  Lord  Dartmouth,  his 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  4^ 

lordship  rose  again  and  said  that,  having  since 
heard  the  opinions  of  so  many  lords  against  receiv- 
ing it,  to  lie  upon  the  table  for  consideration,  he  had 
altered  his  mind,  could  not  accept  the  praise  offered 
him  for  a  candor  of  which  he  was  now  ashamed,  and 
should  therefore  give  his  voice  for  rejecting  the  plan 
immediately. 

I  am  the  more  particular  in  this,  as  it  is  a  trait  of 
that  nobleman's  character,  who  from  his  office  is  sup- 
posed to  have  so  great  a  share  in  American  affairs, 
but  who  has  in  reality  no  will  or  judgment  of  his 
own,  being,  with  disposition  for  the  best  measures, 
easily  prevailed  with  to  join  in  the  worr;t. 

Lord  Chatham,  in  his  reply  to  Lord  Sandwich,  took 
notice  of  his  liberal  insinuation  that  the  plan  was  not 
the  person's  who  proposed  it;  declared  that  it  was 
entirely  his  own;  a  declaration  he  thought  himself 
the  more  obliged  to  make,  as  many  of  their  lordships 
appeared  to  have  so  mean  an  opinion  of  it;  for  if  it 
was  so  weak  or  so  bad  a  thing,  it  was  proper  in  him 
to  take  care  that  no  other  person  should  unjustly 
share  in  the  censure  it  deserved.  That  it  had  been 
heretofore  reckoned  his  vice,  not  to  be  apt  to  take 
advice ;  but  he  made  no  scruple  to  declare  that  if  he 
were  the  first  minister  of  this  country,  and  had  the 
care  of  settling  this  momentous  business,  he  should 
not  be  ashamed  of  publicly  calling  to  his  assistance  a 
person  so  perfectly  acquainted  with  the  whole  of 
American  affairs  as  the  gentleman  alluded  to,  and  so 
injuriously  reflected  on;  one,  he  was  pleased  to  say, 
whom  all  Europe  held  in  high  estimation  for  his 
knowledge  and  wisdom,  and  ranked  with  our  Boyles 


42  The  Works  of  [177s 

and  Newtons ;  who  was  an  honor,  not  to  the  English 
nation  only,  but  to  human  nature !  I  foimd  it  harder 
to  stand  this  extravagant  compliment  than  the  pre- 
ceding equally  extravagant  abuse ;  but  kept  as  well 
as  I  could  an  unconcerned  countenance,  as  not  con- 
ceiving it  to  relate  to  me. 

To  hear  so  many  of  these  hereditary  legislators  de- 
claiming so  vehemently  against,  not  the  adopting 
merely,  but  even  the  consideration  of,  a  proposal  so 
important  in  its  nature,  offered  by  a  person  of  so 
weighty  a  character,  one  of  the  first  statesmen  of  the 
age,  who  had  taken  up  this  country  when  in  the  low- 
est despondency,  and  conducted  it  to  victory  and 
glory  through  a  war  with  two  of  the  mightiest  king- 
doms in  Europe;  to  hear  them  censuring  his  plan, 
not  only  for  their  own  misunderstandings  of  what 
was  in  it,  but  for  their  imaginations  of  what  was  not 
in  it,  which  they  would  not  give  themselves  an  op- 
portunity of  rectifying  by  a  second  reading;  to  per- 
ceive the  total  ignorance  of  the  subject  in  some,  the 
prejudice  and  passion  of  others,  and  the  wilful  per- 
version of  plain  truth  in  several  of  the  ministers ;  and, 
upon  the  whole,  to  see  it  so  ignominiously  rejected 
by  so  great  a  majority,  and  so  hastily  too,  in  breach 
of  all  decency,  and  prudent  regard  to  the  character 
and  dignity  of  their  body,  as  a  third  part  of  the  na- 
tional legislature,  gave  me  an  exceeding  mean  opinion 
of  their  abilities,  and  made  their  claim  of  sovereign- 
ty over  three  millions  of  virtuous,  sensible  people  in 
America  seem  the  greatest  of  absurdities,  since  they 
appeared  to  have  scarce  discretion  enough  to  govern 
a  herd  of  swine.     Hereditary  legislators!   thought  I. 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  43 

There  would  be  more  propriety,  because  less  hazard 
of  mischief,  in  having  (as  in  some  university  of 
Germany)  hereditary  professors  of  mathematics!  But 
this  was  a  hasty  reflection;  for  the  elected  House  of 
Commons  is  no  better,  nor  ever  will  it  be  while  the 
electors  receive  money  for  their  votes,  and  pay 
money  wherewith  ministers  may  bribe  their  repre- 
sentatives when  chosen.' 

'  Franklin  did  not  hesitate  to  speak  of  the  House  of  Commons,  even 
in  letters  of  an  official  nature,  as  corrupt,  but  he  never  mentions  any 
specific  cases  of  corruption.  As  corruption  is  not  apt  to  have  wit- 
nesses who  can  afford  to  betray  it,  it  is  charged  in  many  cases  on  sus- 
picion, and  oftentimes  unjustly.  To  show  that  Franklin  did  not  make 
such  a  charge  merely  upon  rumors  and  suspicions,  the  attention  of 
the  reader  is  invited  to  the  following  extract  from  Wraxall's  Memoirs 
of  His  Own  Time,  which  will  be  fovmd  to  justify  much  stronger  lan- 
guage than  Franklin  ever  used  upon  the  subject: 

"While  I  am  engaged  on  the  subject  of  the  House  of  Commons,  and 
of  the  influence  or  corruption  by  which  it  has  been  always  managed, 
particularly  during  the  last,  and  the  present  reign,  I  shall  relate  some 
particulars,  which  cannot  perhaps  be  introduced  with  more  propriety 
than  in  this  place.  We  may  see  in  the  Memoirs  of  Prince  Eugene  of 
Savoy  what  influence  he  attributes  to  the  '  Presents  of  Champagne  and 
Burgundy'  made  by  Marshal  Tallard,  then  a  prisoner  of  war  in  Eng- 
land, to  'Right  Honorable  Members  of  Parliament.'  Nay,  the  Prince 
asserts  positively  that  in  the  same  year,  1 7 1 1 ,  when  he  came  over  in 
person  to  London,  with  the  avowed  object  of  retaining,  if  possible, 
Queen  Anne  and  her  Ministers  in  the  Grand  Alliance  against  France, 
he  had  recourse,  himself,  to  corruption.  '  Je  fis  des  presents,'  says  he, 
*car  on  peut  acheter  beaucoup  en  Angleterre.'  If  such  constituted  the 
ordinary  practice  under  the  last  Princess  of  the  Stuart  Line,  at  a  time 
that  Parliaments  were  not  septennial  but  only  triennial,  we  may  be 
quite  assured  that  they  did  not  become  more  virtuous  after  the  acces- 
sion of  the  reigning  family,  when  the  House  of  Commons  was  elected 
for  seven  years. 

"  Proofs  of  the  venaHty  practised  by  Sir  Robert  Walpole,  during  the 
whole  course  of  his  long  administration,  it  seems  unnecessary  to  pro- 
duce, as  that  Minister  did  not  disclaim  or  resent  the  imputation.  Nor 
did  his  political  adversaries  disdain,  whatever  professions  of  public 
virtue  they  might  make,  to  have  recourse  to  the  same  unworthy  ex- 
pedients in  order  to  effect  his  removal.     We  have  the  authority  of  a 


44  The  Works  of  [1775 

After  this  proceeding  I  expected  to  hear  no  more 
of  any  negotiation  for  settling  our  difference  ami- 
cably; yet,  in  a  day  or  two,  I  had  a  note  from  Mr. 
Barclay,  requesting  a  meeting  at  Doctor  Fother- 
gill's,  the  4th  of  February,  in  the  evening.  I  at- 
tended accordingly,  and  was  surprised  by  being  told 
that  a  very  good  disposition  appeared  in  adminis- 
tration; that  the  " Hints"  had  been  considered  and 
several  of  them  thought  reasonable,  and  that  others 

member  of  their  own  body  for  the  fact.  'Don  Carlos'  (Frederick, 
Prince  of  Wales),  says  Mr.  Glover,  in  his  Memoirs,  recently  pubUshed, 
'  told  me  that  it  cost  him  twelve  thousand  poionds  in  corruption,  par- 
ticularly among  the  Tories,  to  carry  the  Westminster  and  Chippenham 
elections  in  1742,  and  other  points,  which  compelled  Lord  Orford,  at 
that  time  Sir  Robert  Walpole,  to  quit  the  House  of  Commons.'  It  is 
difficult  to  adduce  more  satisfactory  and  tmimpeachable  proof  of  any 
fact,  as  Glover  was  a  man  of  strict  veracity.  Neither  was  Mr.  Pelham, 
who,  after  a  short  interval,  succeeded  Sir  Robert,  and  who  held  his 
situation  near  eleven  years,  though  he  may  be  justly  esteemed  one  of 
the  most  upright  statesmen  who  presided  in  the  cotmcils  of  George  the 
Second,  less  liable  to  the  accusation  of  corrupting  Parliament  than  his 
predecessor. 

"A  friend  of  mine,  a  man  of  rank  and  high  character,  whom  I  do  not 
name,  because,  being  still  alive,  I  consider  myself  not  at  liberty  to 
divulge  it,  but  whose  name  would  at  once  stamp  the  veracity  and  au- 
thenticity of  whatever  he  relates,  has  frequently  assured  me  that 
about  the  year  1767  he  was  personally  acquainted  with  Roberts,  who 
had  been  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  imder  Mr.  Pelham,  but  who  was 
then  old,  infirm,  and  near  his  end.  He  Ues  bxiried  in  Westminster 
Abbey,  in  Poets'  Comer,  where  his  epitaph  describes  him  as  '  the  most 
faithful  Secretary  of  the  Right  Honorable  Henry  Pelham.'  This  gen- 
tleman, conversing  with  Roberts  upon  the  events  of  those  times  when 
he  held  a  place  under  Administration,  and  particularly  on  the  manner 
in  which  the  House  of  Commons  was  then  managed,  Roberts  avowed 
without  reserve,  that  while  he  remained  at  the  treasury,  there  were  a 
number  of  members  who  regularly  received  from  him  their  payment  or 
stipend,  at  the  end  of  every  session,  in  bank  notes.  The  sums,  which 
varied  according  to  the  merits,  ability,  and  attendance  of  the  respective 
individuals,  amoimted  usually  from  five  hundred  pounds  to  eight  hun- 
dred poiinds,  per  annum.      'This  largess  I  distributed,'  added  Roberts, 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  45 

might  be  admitted  with  small  amendments.  The 
good  Doctor,  with  his  usual  philanthropy,  expati- 
ated on  the  miseries  of  war;  that  even  a  bad  peace 
was  preferable  to  the  most  successful  war;  that 
America  was  growing  in  strength;  and,  whatever 
she  might  be  obliged  to  submit  to  at  present,  she 
would  in  a  few  years  be  in  a  condition  to  make  her 
own  terms. 

Mr.  Barclay  hinted  how  much  it  was  in  my  power 

'in  the  Cotirt  of  Requests,  on  the  day  of  the  prorogation  of  Parliament. 
I  took  m}^  stand  there,  and  as  the  gentlemen  passed  me,  in  going  to  or 
returning  from  the  House,  I  conveyed  the  money  in  a  squeeze  of  the 
hand.  Whatever  person  received  the  ministerial  bounty  in  the  manner 
thus  related,  I  entered  his  name  in  a  book,  which  was  preserved  in  the 
deepest  secrecy,  it  being  never  inspected  by  any  one,  except  the  King 
and  Mr.  Pelham.  On  the  decease  of  that  Minister  in  1754,  his  brother 
the  Duke  of  Newcastle,  Mr.  Fox,  afterwards  Lord  Holland,  and  others 
of  the  Cabinet  who  succeeded  to  power,  anxious  to  obtain  an  accurate 
knowledge  of  the  private  state  of  the  House  of  Commons,  and  par- 
ticularly to  ascertain  the  names  of  all  the  individuals  who  received 
money  during  Mr.  Pelham's  life,  applied  to  me  for  information.  They 
further  demanded  of  me  to  surrender  the  book,  in  which,  as  they  knew, 
I  was  accustomed  to  enter  the  above  particulars.  Conceiving  a  com- 
pliance to  be  dishonorable,  I  peremptorily  refused  to  deliver  it  up, 
except  by  the  King's  express  command,  and  to  his  Majesty  in  person. 
In  consequence  of  my  refusal,  they  acquainted  the  King  of  the  cir- 
cumstance, who  sent  for  me  to  St.  James',  where  I  was  introduced 
into  the  Closet,  more  than  one  of  the  above-mentioned  Ministers  being 
present.  George  the  Second  ordered  me  to  return  him  the  book  in 
question,  with  which  injtmction  I  immediately  complied.  At  the 
same  time,  taking  the  poker  in  his  hand,  he  put  it  into  the  fire,  made 
it  red  hot,  and  then,  while  we  stood  rotmd  him,  he  thrust  the  book  into 
the  flames,  where  it  was  immediately  reduced  to  ashes.  He  con- 
sidered it,  in  fact,  as  too  sacred  and  confidential  a  register,  to  be  thus 
transferred  over  to  the  new  Ministers,  and  as  having  become  extinct 
with  the  administration  of  Mr.  Pelham.' 

"It  is  unquestionable  that  the  Duke  of  Newcastle,  though  he  failed 
in  getting  possession  of  his  brother's  secret  information,  in  consequence 
of  Roberts's  firmness,  yet  pursued  the  same  mode  of  management  on 
becoming  himself  First  Lord  of  the  Treasiiry.     Under  Lord  Bute's 


4^  The  Works  of  [1775 

to  promote  an  agreement,  how  much  it  would  be  to 
my  honor  to  effect  it,  and  that  I  might  expect,  not 
only  restoration  of  my  old  place,  but  almost  any 
other  I  could  wish  for,  etc.  I  need  not  tell  you,  who 
know  me  so  well,  how  improper  and  disgusting  this 
language  was  to  me.  The  Doctor's  was  more  suit- 
able. Him  I  answered  that  we  did  not  wish  for  war, 
and  desired  nothing  but  what  was  reasonable  and 
necessary  for  our  security  and  well-being.     To  Mr. 

government,  when,  from  a  variety  of  causes,  a  violent  opposition  in 
Parliament  arose,  which  required  the  whole  power  of  Ministry  to  stem, 
similar  practices  were  carried  to  a  greater  length.  John  Ross  Mackaj^ 
who  had  been  Private  Secretary  to  the  Earl  of  Bute,  and  afterwards, 
during  seventeen  years,  was  Treasurer  of  the  Ordnance,  a  man  with 
whom  I  was  personally  acquainted,  frequently  avowed  the  fact.  He 
hved  to  a  very  advanced  age,  sat  in  several  Pariiaments,  and  only  died, 
I  believe,  in  1796.  A  gentleman  of  high  professional  rank  and  of  vm- 
impeached  veracity  told  me  that,  dining  at  the  late  Earl  of  Bes- 
borough's  in  Cavendish  Square,  in  the  year  1790,  where  only  four  per- 
sons were  present,  including  himself,  Ross  Mackay,  who  was  one  of  the 
number,  gave  them  the  most  ample  information  upon  this  subject. 
Lord  Besborough  having  called,  after  dinner,  for  a  bottle  of  excellent 
champagne,  of  which  wine  Mackay  was  fond,  and  the  conversation 
accidentally  turning  on  the  means  of  governing  the  House  of  Commons, 
Mackay  said  that  'Money  formed,  after  all,  the  only  effectual  and 
certain  method.'  'The  peace  of  1763,'  continued  he,  'was  carried 
through  and  approved  by  a  pecuniary  distribution.  Nothing  else 
could  have  sxirmoimted  the  difificulty.  I  was,  myself,  the  channel 
through  which  the  money  passed.  With  my  own  hand  I  secured 
above  one  hundred  and  twenty  votes  on  that  vital  question  to  Min- 
isters. Eighty  thousand  pounds  were  set  apart  for  the  purpose. 
Forty  members  of  the  House  of  Commons  received  from  me  a  thousand 
pounds  each.  To  eighty  others  I  paid  five  hundred  pounds  apiece.' 
Mackay  afterwards  confirmed  more  than  once  this  fact  to  the  gentle- 
man above  mentioned,  who  related  it  to  me.  He  added  that  Lord  Bes- 
borough appeared,  himself,  so  sensible  of  the  imprudence,  as  well  as 
impropriety,  of  the  avowal  made  by  Mackay  at  his  table,  that  His 
Lordship  sent  to  him  and  to  the  fourth  person  who  had  been  present  on 
the  occasion,  next  morning,  to  entreat  of  them  on  no  accotmt  to  divulge 
it  during  Mackay's  life. 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  47 

Barclay  I  replied  that  the  ministry,  I  was  sure,  would 
rather  give  me  a  place  in  a  cart  to  Tyburn  than  any 
other  place  whatever;  and  to  both  that  I  sincerely 
wished  to  be  serviceable ;  that  I  needed  no  other  in- 
ducement than  to  be  shown  how  I  might  be  so,  but 
saw  they  imagined  more  to  be  in  my  power  than 
really  was.  I  was  then  told  again  that  conferences 
had  been  held  upon  the  "Hints,"  and  the  paper 

"Wilkes  was,  however,  perfectly  well  instructed  on  the  subject,  and 
made  no  secret  of  his  information,  even  at  the  time  when  the  Treaty  of 
Fontainebleau  was  a  recent  transaction.  In  his  memorable  letter  ad- 
dressed from  'Paris,  22d  October,  1764,'  to  the  Electors  of  Aylesbury, 
he  says:  'I  will  not  compliment  the  present  profligate  majority  in  the 
House  of  Commons,  so  far  as  to  say  they  were  so  well  informed  that 
they  knew  the  exact  truth  of  every  assertion  in  the  North  Briton,  No.  45. 
One  particular,  however,  came  within  their  knowledge — the  means  by 
which  it  is  hinted  that  the  entire  approbation  of  Parliament,  even  of  the 
Preliminary  Articles  of  the  late  inglorious  Peace,  was  obtained,  and 
the  previous  step  to  the  obtaining  that  entire  approbation — the  large 
debt  contracted  on  the  Civil  List.  They  knew  this  assertion  was  ex- 
tremely true,  and  I  am  as  ready  to  own  that  it  was  extremely  scandal- 
ous.'' It  is  impossible  to  convey  a  charge  of  such  a  nature  in  less 
equivocal  or  ambiguous  language. 

"Relative  to  the  three  successive  administrations  of  George  Gren- 
ville,  the  Marquis  of  Rockingham,  and  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  which 
comprised  the  period  of  time  between  April,  1763,  and  January,  1770, 
I  can  state  nothing  from  my  own  personal  knowledge.  Bradshaw 
conducted  that  department  under  the  Duke  of  Grafton.  The  same 
system  certainly  continued  during  the  period  of  the  American  war, 
when  Robinson,  and  under  him,  Brummell,  were  its  agents.  I  incline 
nevertheless  to  doubt  whether,  towards  the  termination  of  Lord 
North's  ministry,  these  practices  subsisted  in  all  their  force;  by  which 
I  mean  to  say  that  I  question  whether  any  individual  member  of  the 
House  of  Commons  was  paid  for  his  vote  and  support  in  bank  notes, 
as  had  been  done  under  Walpole,  Pelham,  and  most,  if  not  all  their 
successors  down  to  that  time.  More  refinement  had  insensibly  been 
introduced  into  the  distribution  of  gratifications,  which  were  conveyed 
in  oblique  shapes,  such  as  lottery  tickets,  scrip,  jobs,  contracts,  and 
other  beneficial  forms,  by  which  the  majority  was  kept  together  in 
defiance  of  a  most  unfortunate,  if  not  an  ill-conducted,  war." — Editor. 


48  The  Works  of  [1775 

being  produced,  was  read,  that  I  might  hear  the  ob- 
servations that  had  been  made  upon  them  separately, 
which  were  as  follows : 

1 .  The  first  article  was  approved. 

2.  The  second  agreed  to,  so  far  as  related  to  the 
repeal  of  the  Tea  Act,  but  repayment  of  the  duties 
that  had  been  collected  was  refused. 

3.  The  third  not  approved,  as  it  implied  a  defi- 
ciency of  power  in  the  Parliament  that  made  those 
acts. 

4.  The  fourth  approved. 

5.  The  fifth  agreed  to,  but  with  a  reserve  that  no 
change  prejudicial  to  Britain  was  to  be  expected. 

6.  The  sixth  agreed  to,  so  far  as  related  to  the 
appropriation  of  the  duties,  but  the  appointment  of 
the  officers  and  their  salaries  to  remain  as  at  present. 

7.  The  seventh,  relating  to  aids  in  time  of  peace, 
agreed  to. 

8.  The  eighth,  relating  to  the  troops,  was  inad- 
missible. 

9.  The  ninth  could  be  agreed  to,  with  this  differ- 
ence, that  no  proportion  should  be  observed  with 
regard  to  preceding  taxes,  but  each  colony  should 
give  at  pleasure. 

10.  The  tenth  agreed  to,  as  to  the  restitution  of 
Castle  William,  but  the  restriction  on  the  crown  in 
building  fortresses  refused. 

11.  The  eleventh  refused  absolutely,  except  as  to 
the  Boston  Port  Bill,  which  would  be  repealed ;  and 
the  Quebec  Act  might  be  so  far  amended  as  to  re- 
duce that  province  to  its  ancient  limits.  The  other 
Massachusetts  acts,  being  real  amendments  of  their 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  49 

constitution,  must  for  that  reason  be  continued,  as 
well  as  to  be  a  standing  example  of  the  power  of 
Parliament. 

12.  The  twelfth  agreed  to,  that  the  judges  should 
be  appointed  during  good  behavior,  on  the  Assem- 
blies providing  permanent  salaries,  such  as  the  crown 
should  approve  of. 

13.  The  thirteenth  agreed  to,  provided  the  Assem- 
blies make  provision  as  in  the  preceding  article. 

15.  The  fifteenth  agreed  to. 

16.  The  sixteenth  agreed  to,  supposing  the  duties 
paid  to  the  colony  treasuries. 

17.  The  seventeenth  inadmissible. 

We  had  not  at  this  time  a  great  deal  of  conversa- 
tion upon  these  points,  for  I  shortened  it  by  observ- 
ing that,  while  the  Parliament  claimed  and  exercised 
a  power  of  altering  our  constitutions  at  pleasure, 
there  could  be  no  agreement;  for  we  were  rendered 
unsafe  in  every  privilege  we  had  a  right  to,  and  were 
secure  in  nothing.  And,  it  being  hinted  how  neces- 
sary an  agreement  was  for  America,  since  it  was  so 
easy  for  Britain  to  bum  all  our  seaport  towns,  I 
grew  warm,  said  that  the  chief  part  of  my  little  prop- 
erty consisted  of  houses  in  those  towns;  that  they 
might  make  bonfires  of  them  whenever  they  pleased ; 
that  the  fear  of  losing  them  would  never  alter  my 
resolution  to  resist  to  the  last  that  claim  of  Parlia- 
ment, and  that  it  behoved  this  country  to  take  care 
what  mischief  it  did  us,  for  that  sooner  or  later  it 
would  certainly  be  obliged  to  make  good  all  damages 
with  interest.  The  Doctor  smiled,  as  I  thought, 
with  some  approbation  of  my  discourse,  passionate 


50  The  Works  of  [1775 

as  it  was,  and  said  he  would  certainly  repeat  it  to- 
morrow to  Lord  Dartmouth. 

In  the  discourse  concerning  the  "  Hints,"  Mr.  Bar- 
clay happened  to  mention  that,  going  to  Lord  Hyde's, 
he  found  Lord  Howe  with  him ;  and  that  Lord  Hyde 
had  said  to  him:  "You  may  speak  any  thing  before 
Lord  Howe  that  you  have  to  say  to  me,  for  he  is  a 
friend  in  whom  I  confide";  upon  which  he  accord- 
ingly had  spoken  with  the  same  freedom  as  usual. 
By  this  I  collected  how  Lord  Howe  came  by  the 
paper  of  "  Hints,"  which  he  had  shown  me.  And,  it 
being  mentioned  as  a  measure  thought  of,  to  send 
over  a  commissioner  with  powers  to  inquire  into 
grievances,  and  give  redress  on  certain  conditions, 
but  that  it  was  difficult  to  find  a  proper  person,  I 
said:  "Why  not  Lord  Hyde?  He  is  a  man  of  pru- 
dence and  temper,  a  person  of  dignity,  and,  I  should 
think,  very  suitable  for  such  an  employment;  or,  if 
he  would  not  go,  there  is  the  other  person  you  just 
mentioned.  Lord  Howe,  who  would,  in  my  opinion, 
do  excellently  well."  This  passed  as  mere  conversa- 
tion, and  we  parted. 

Lord  Chatham's  rejected  plan  being  printed,  for 
the  public  judgment,  I  received  six  copies  from  Lord 
Mahon,  his  son-in-law,  which  I  sent  to  different  per- 
sons in  America. 

A  week  and  more  passed  in  which  I  heard  nothing 
further  of  any  negotiation,  and  my  time  was  much 
taken  up  among  the  members  of  Parliament,  when 
Mr.  Barclay  sent  me  a  note  to  say  that  he  was  indis- 
posed, but  desirous  of  seeing  me,  and  should  be  glad 
if  I  would  call  on  him.     I  waited  upon  him  the  next 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  51 

morning,  when  he  told  me  that  he  had  seen  Lord 
Hyde,  and  had  some  further  discourse  with  him  on 
the  Articles;  that  he  thought  himself  now  fully 
possessed  of  what  would  do  in  this  business ;  that  he 
therefore  wished  another  meeting  with  me  and  Dr. 
Fothergill,  when  he  would  endeavor  to  bring  prepared 
a  draft  conformable  chiefly  to  what  had  been  pro- 
posed and  conceded  on  both  sides,  with  some  propo- 
sitions of  his  own.  I  readily  agreed  to  the  meeting, 
which  was  to  be  on  Thursday  evening,  February  i6th. 
We  met  accordingly,  when  Mr.  Barclay  produced 
the  following  paper,  viz. : 

**  A  PLAN  WHICH,  IT  IS  BELIEVED,  WOULD  PRODUCE  A 
PERMANENT  UNION  BETWEEN  GREAT  BRITAIN  AND 
HER    COLONIES 

"  I.  The  tea  destroyed  to  be  paid  for;  and,  in  order 
that  no  time  may  be  lost  to  begin  the  desirable  work 
of  conciliation,  it  is  proposed  that  the  agent  or  agents, 
in  a  petition  to  the  king,  should  engage  that  the  tea 
destroyed  shall  be  paid  for;  and,  in  consequence  of 
that  engagement,  a  commissioner  to  have  authority, 
by  a  clause  in  an  act  of  Parliament,  to  open  the  port 
(by  a  suspension  of  the  Boston  Port  Act)  when  that 
engagement  shall  be  complied  with. 

"2.  The  Tea-duty  Act  to  be  repealed,  as  well  for 
the  advantage  of  Great  Britain  as  the  colonies. 

"3.  Castle  William  to  be  restored  to  the  province 
of  Massachusetts  Bay,  as  formerly,  before  it  was 
delivered  up  by  Governor  Hutchinson. 

"4.  As  it  is  believed  that  the  commencement  of 
conciliatory  measures  will,  in  a  considerable  degree, 


52  The  Works  of  [1775 

quiet  the  minds  of  the  subjects  in  America,  it  is 
proposed  that  the  inhabitants  of  the  province  of 
Massachusetts  Bay  should  petition  the  king,  and 
state  their  objections  to  the  said  act.'  And  it  is  to 
be  understood  that  the  said  act  shall  be  repealed. 
Interim.,  the  commissioner  to  have  power  to  suspend 
the  act,  in  order  to  enable  the  inhabitants  to  petition. 

"5.  The  several  provinces  who  may  think  them- 
selves aggrieved  by  the  Quebec  Bill,  to  petition  in 
their  legislative  capacities ;  and  it  is  to  be  understood 
that  so  far  of  the  act,  as  extends  the  limits  of  Quebec 
beyond  its  ancient  bounds,  is  to  be  repealed. 

"6.  The  act  of  Henry  the  Eighth  to  be  formally 
disclaimed  by  Parliament. 

"7.  In  time  of  peace  the  Americans  to  raise,  within 
their  respective  provinces,  by  acts  of  their  own  legis- 
latures, a  certain  sum  or  sums,  such  as  may  he  thought 
necessary  for  a  peace  establishment,  to  pay  gov- 
ernors, judges,  etc.     Vide  Laws  of  Jamaica. 

"8.  In  time  of  war,  on  requisition  made  by  the  king 
with  consent  of  Parliament,  every  colony  shall  raise 
such  sums  of  money  as  their  legislatures  may  think 
stiitable  to  their  abilities  and  the  public  exigency, 
to  be  laid  out  in  raising  and  paying  men  for  land  and 
sea  service,  furnishing  provisions,  transports,  or 
such  other  purposes  as  the  king  shall  require  and 
direct. 

"  9.  The  acts  of  navigation  to  be  reexamined,  in 
order  to  see  whether  some  alterations  might  not  be 
made  therein  as  much  for  the  advantage  of  Great 
Britain  as  the  ease  of  the  colonies. 

I  Supposed  to  mean  the  Boston  Port  Act. — B.  F. 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  53 

"10.  A  naval  officer  to  be  appointed  by  the  crown 
to  reside  in  each  colony  to  see  those  acts  observed. 

"  N.  B. — In  some  colonies  they  are  not  appointed  by 
the  crown. 

"11.  All  duties  arising  on  the  acts  for  regulating 
trade  with  the  colonies  to  be  for  public  use  of  the 
respective  colonies,  and  paid  into  their  treasuries, 
and  an  officer  of  the  crown  to  see  it  done. 

"12.  The  admiralty  courts  to  be  reduced  to  the 
same  powers  as  they  have  in  England. 

"  13.  All  judges  in  the  king's  colony  governments 
to  be  appointed  during  good  behavior,  and  to  be 
paid  by  the  province,  agreeable  to  article  seventh. 

"  N.  B. — If  the  king  chooses  to  add  to  their  salaries, 
the  same  to  be  sent  from  England. 

"  14. — The  governors  to  be  supported  in  the  same 
manner." 

Our  conversation  turned  chiefly  upon  the  first 
article.  It  was  said  that  the  ministry  only  wanted 
some  opening  to  be  given  them,  some  ground  on 
which  to  found  the  commencement  of  conciliating 
measures ;  that  a  petition  containing  such  an  engage- 
ment as  mentioned  in  this  article  would  answer  that 
purpose ;  that  preparations  were  making  to  send  over 
more  troops  and  ships;  that  such  a  petition  might 
prevent  their  going,  especially  if  a  commissioner 
were  proposed.  I  was  therefore  urged  to  engage 
the  colony  agents  to  join  with  me  in  such  a  petition. 
My  answer  was,  that  no  agent  had  any  thing  to  do 
with  the  tea  business  but  those  for  Massachusetts 
Bay,  who  were  Mr.  Bollan  for  the  Council,  myself 


54  The  Works  of  [1775 

for  the  Assembly,  and  Mr.  Lee,  appointed  to  succeed 
me  when  I  should  leave  England;  that  the  latter, 
therefore,  could  hardly  yet  be  considered  as  an  agent; 
and  that  the  former  was  a  cautious,  exact  man,  and 
not  easily  persuaded  to  take  steps  of  such  importance 
without  instructions  or  authority;  that,  therefore,  if 
such  a  step  were  to  be  taken,  it  would  lie  chiefly  on 
me  to  take  it;  that,  indeed,  if  there  were,  as  they 
supposed,  a  clear  probability  of  good  to  be  done  by 
it,  I  should  make  no  scruple  of  hazarding  myself  in 
it ;  but  I  thought  the  empowering  a  commissioner  to 
suspend  the  Boston  Port  Act  was  a  method  too  dila- 
tory, and  a  mere  suspension  would  not  be  satisfac- 
tory; that  if  such  an  engagement  were  entered  into, 
all  the  Massachusetts  acts  should  be  immediately 
repealed. 

They  laid  hold  of  the  readiness  I  had  expressed  to 
petition  on  a  probability  of  doing  good,  applauded 
it,  and  urged  me  to  draw  up  a  petition  immediately. 
I  said  it  was  a  matter  of  importance,  and  with  their 
leave  I  would  take  home  the  paper,  consider  the 
propositions  as  they  now  stood,  and  give  them  my 
opinion  to-morrow  evening.  This  was  agreed  to, 
and  for  that  time  we  parted. 

Weighing  now  the  present  dangerous  situation  of 
affairs  in  America,  and  the  daily  hazard  of  widening 
the  breach  there  irreparably,  I  embraced  the  idea 
proposed  in  the  paper  of  sending  over  a  commis- 
sioner, as  it  might  be  a  means  of  suspending  military 
operations,  and  bring  on  a  treaty,  whereby  mischief 
would  be  prevented,  and  an  agreement  by  degrees 
be  formed  and  established.     I  also  concluded  to  do 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  55 

what  had  been  desired  of  me  as  to  the  engagement, 
and  essayed  a  draft  of  a  memorial  to  Lord  Dart- 
mouth for  that  purpose  simply,  to  be  signed  only  by 
myself.  As  to  the  sending  of  a  commissioner,  a 
measure  which  I  was  desired  likewise  to  propose, 
and  express  my  sentiments  of  its  utility,  I  appre- 
hended m}^  colleagues  in  the  agency  might  be  justly 
displeased  if  I  took  a  step  of  such  importance  with- 
out consulting  them,  and  therefore  I  sketched  a  joint 
petition  to  that  purpose,  for  them  to  sign  with  me 
if  they  pleased;  but  apprehending  that  would  meet 
with  difficulty,  I  drew  up  a  letter  to  Lord  Dart- 
mouth, containing  the  same  proposition,  with  the 
reasons  for  it,  to  be  sent  from  me  only.  I  made 
also  upon  paper  some  remarks  on  the  propositions, 
with  some  hints  on  a  separate  paper,  of  further 
remarks  to  be  made  in  conversation,  when  we  should 
meet  in  the  evening  of  the  17th.  Copies  of  these 
papers  (except  the  first,  which  I  do  not  find  with 
me  on  shipboard),  are  here  placed  as  follows,  viz.: 

"  To  the  King's  Most  Excellent  Majesty: 

"The  Petition  and  Memorial  of  W.  Bollan,  B. 
Franklin,  and  Arthur  Lee, 

"  Most  humbly  showeth: 
"  That  your  petitioners,  being  agents  for  several 
colonies,  and  deeply  affected  with  the  apprehension 
of  impending  calamities  that  now  threaten  your 
Majesty's  subjects  in  America,  beg  leave  to  ap- 
proach your  throne,  and  to  suggest  with  all  humility 
their  opinion,  formed  on  much  attentive  considera- 
tion, that,  if  it  should  please  your  Majesty  to  permit 


56  The  Works  of  [1775 

and  authorize  a  meeting  of  delegates  from  the  differ- 
ent provinces,  and  appoint  some  person  or  persons  of 
dignity  and  wisdom  from  this  country  to  preside  in 
that  meeting,  or  to  confer  with  the  said  delegates, 
acquaint  themselves  fully  with  the  true  grievances  of 
the  colonies,  and  settle  the  means  of  composing  all 
dissensions,  such  means  to  be  afterwards  ratified  by 
your  Majesty  if  found  just  and  suitable,  your  peti- 
tioners are  persuaded,  from  their  thorough  knowl- 
edge of  that  country  and  people,  that  such  a  measure 
might  be  attended  with  the  most  salutary  effects, 
prevent  much  mischief,  and  restore  the  harmony 
which  so  long  subsisted,  and  is  so  necessary  to  the 
prosperity  and  happiness  of  all  your  Majesty's  sub- 
jects in  every  part  of  your  extensive  dominions; 
which,  that  Heaven  may  preserve  entire  to  your  Ma- 
jesty and  your  descendants,  is  the  sincere  prayer  of 
your  Majesty's  most  dutiful  subjects  and  servants." 

"  To  the  Right  Honorable  Lord  Dartmouth. 

"  My  Lord  : — Being  deeply  apprehensive  of  the  im- 
pending calamities  that  threaten  the  nation  and  its 
colonies  through  the  present  unhappy  dissensions,  I 
have  attentively  considered  by  what  possible  means 
those  calamities  may  be  prevented.  The  great  im- 
portance of  a  business  which  concerns  us  all,  will,  I 
hope,  in  some  degree  excuse  me  to  your  lordship  if  I 
presume,  unasked,  to  offer  my  humble  opinion,  that 
should  his  Majesty  think  fit  to  authorize  delegates 
from  the  several  provinces  to  meet  at  such  conven- 
ient time  and  place  as  in  his  wisdom  shall  seem 
meet,  then  and  there  to  confer  with  a  commission  or 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  57 

commissioners  to  be  appointed  and  empowered  by 
his  Majesty,  on  the  means  of  estabHshing  a  firm  and 
lasting  union  between  Britain  and  the  American 
provinces,  such  a  measure  might  be  effectual  for  that 
purpose.  I  cannot,  therefore,  but  wish  it  may  be 
adopted,  as  no  one  can  more  ardently  and  sincerely 
desire  the  general  prosperity  of  the  British  dominions 
than,  my  lord,  your  lordship's  most  obedient,  etc., 

"  B.  Franklin." 
"'Remarks  on  the  Propositions 

"Art.  I .  In  consequence  of  that  engagement,  all  the 
Boston  and  Massachusetts  acts  to  be  suspended,  and, 
in  compliance  with  that  engagement,  to  be  totally  re- 
pealed. 

"  By  this  amendment  article  fourth  will  become 
unnecessary. 

"  Arts.  4  and  5.  The  numerous  petitions  heretofore 
sent  home  by  the  colony  Assemblies,  and  either  re- 
fused to  be  received,  or  received  and  neglected,  or 
answered  harshly,  and  the  petitioners  rebuked  for 
making  them,  have,  I  conceive,  totally  discouraged 
that  method  of  application ;  and  if  even  their  friends 
were  now  to  propose  to  them  the  recurring  again  to 
petitioning,  such  friends  would  be  thought  to  trifle 
with  them.  Besides,  all  they  desire  is  now  before 
government  in  the  petition  of  the  Congress,  and  the 
whole  or  parts  may  be  granted  or  refused  at  pleasure. 
The  sense  of  the  colonies  cannot  be  better  obtained 
by  petition  from  different  colonies  than  it  is  by  that 
general  petition. 

"  Art.  7.  Read,  such  as  they  may  think  necessary. 


58  The  Works  of  [1775 

"Art.  II.  As  it  stands,  of  little  importance.  The 
first  proposition  was,  that  they  should  be  repealed  as 
unjust.  But  they  may  remain,  for  they  will  probably 
not  be  executed, 

"Even  with  the  amendment  proposed  above  to  arti- 
cle first,  I  cannot  think  it  stands  as  it  should  do.  If 
the  object  be  merely  the  preventing  present  blood- 
shed, and  the  other  mischiefs  to  fall  on  that  coun- 
try in  war,  it  may  possibly  answer  that  end;  but,  if 
a  thorough,  hearty  reconciliation  is  wished  for  all 
cause  of  heart-burning  should  be  removed,  and  strict 
justice  be  done  on  both  sides.  Thus  the  tea  should 
not  only  be  paid  for  on  the  side  of  Boston,  but  the 
damage  done  to  Boston  by  the  Port  Act  should  be 
repaired,  because  it  was  done  contrary  to  the  custom 
of  all  nations,  savage  as  well  as  civilized,  of  first  de- 
manding satisfaction. 

"  Art.  14.  The  judges  should  receive  nothing  from 
the  king. 

"  As  to  the  other  two  acts,  the  Massachusetts  must 
suffer  all  the  hazards  and  mischiefs  of  war  rather 
than  admit  the  alteration  of  their  charters  and  laws 
by  Parliament.  'They  who  can  give  up  essential 
liberty  to  obtain  a  little  temporary  safety,  deserve 
neither  liberty  nor  safety.'  B.  Franklin." 

"  Hints 

"  I  doubt  the  regulating  duties  will  not  be  accepted, 
without  enacting  them,  and  having  the  power  of 
appointing  the  collectors  in  the  colonies. 

"  If  we  mean  a  hearty  reconciliation,  we  must  deal 
candidly,  and  use  no  tricks. 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  59 

"  The  Assemblies  are  many  of  them  in  a  state  of 
dissolution.  It  will  require  time  to  make  new  elec- 
tions; then  to  meet  and  choose  delegates,  supposing 
all  could  meet.  But  the  Assembly  of  the  Massachu- 
setts Bay  cannot  act  under  the  new  constitution,  or 
meet  the  new  Council  for  that  purpose,  without 
acknowledging  the  power  of  Parliament  to  alter  their 
charter,  which  they  never  will  do.  The  language  of 
the  proposal  is:  Try  on  my  fetters  -first,  and  then,  if 
you  don't  like  them,  petition  and  we  will  consider. 

"  Establishing  salaries  for  judges  may  be  a  general 
law.  For  governors  not  so,  the  constitution  of 
colonies  differing.  It  is  possible  troops  may  be 
sent  to  particular  provinces,  to  burden  them  when 
they  are  out  of  favor. 

"  Canada.  We  cannot  endure  despotism  over  any 
of  our  fellow-subjects.    We  must  all  be  free,  or  none. " 

That  afternoon  I  received  the  following  note  from 
Mrs.  Howe,  enclosing  another  from  Lord  Howe, 
viz.: 

"Mrs.  Howe's  compliments  to  Dr.  Franklin;  she 
has  just  received  the  enclosed  note  from  Lord  Howe, 
and  hopes  it  will  be  convenient  to  him  to  come  to 
her,  either  to-morrow  or  Sunday,  at  any  hour  most 
convenient  to  him,  which  she  begs  he  will  be  so  good 
to  name. 

"Grafton  Street,  Friday,  February  17,  1775." 
[Enclosed  in  the  foregoing.], 

"  To  the  Honorable  Mrs.  Howe: 

"  I  wish  you  to  procure  me  an  opportunity  to  see 


6o  The  Works  of  [1775 

Dr.  Franklin  at  your  house  to-morrow,  or  on  Sunday 
morning,  for  an  essential  purpose. 

''Grafton  Street,  Friday,  four  o'clock.  Received  Friday,  -five  o'clock, 
February  17,  1775." 

I  had  not  heard  from  his  lordship  for  some  time, 
and  readily  answered  that  I  would  do  myself  the 
honor  of  waiting  upon  him  at  her  house  to-morrow 
at  eleven  o'clock. 

Mr.  Barclay,  Dr.  Fothergill,  and  myself  met  ac- 
cording to  appointment  at  the  Doctor's  house.  I 
delivered  to  them  the  "Remarks"  I  had  made  on 
the  paper,  and  we  talked  them  over.  I  read  also  the 
sketches  I  had  made  of  the  petitions  and  memorials ; 
but  they  being  of  opinion  that  the  repeal  of  none  of 
the  Massachusetts  acts  could  be  obtained  by  my 
engaging  to  pay  for  the  tea,  the  Boston  Port  Act 
excepted,  and  I  insisting  on  a  repeal  of  all,  otherwise 
declining  to  make  the  offer,  that  measure  was  de- 
ferred for  the  present,  and  I  pocketed  my  drafts. 
They  concluded,  however,  to  report  my  sentiments, 
and  see  if  any  further  concession  could  be  obtained. 
They  observed,  too,  that  I  had  signed  my  "Re- 
marks"; on  which  I  said  that,  understanding  by 
other  means,  as  well  as  from  them,  that  the  ministers 
had  been  acquainted  with  my  being  consulted  in  this 
business,  I  saw  no  occasion  for  further  mystery; 
and,  since  conveying  and  receiving  through  second 
hands  their  sentiments  and  mine  occasioned  delay, 
and  might  be  attended  with  misapprehension,  some- 
thing being  lost  or  changed  by  mistake  in  the  con- 
veyance, I  did  not  see  why  we  should  not  meet  and 
discuss  the  points  together  at  once ;  that,  if  this  was 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  6i 

thought  proper,  I  should  be  willing  and  ready  to 
attend  them  to  the  ministerial  persons  they  conferred 
with.  They  seemed  to  approve  the  proposal,  and 
said  they  would  mention  it. 

The  next  morning  I  met  Lord  Howe,  according  to 
appointment.  He  seemed  very  cheerful,  having,  as 
I  imagine,  heard  from  Lord  Hyde  what  that  lord 
might  have  heard  from  Mr.  Barclay  the  evening  of 
the  1 6th,  viz.,  that  I  had  consented  to  petition,  and 
engage  payment  for  the  tea;  whence  it  was  hoped 
the  ministerial  terms  of  accommodation  might  take 
place.  He  let  me  know  that  he  was  thought  of  to 
be  sent  commissioner  for  settling  the  differences  in 
America,  adding,  with  an  excess  of  politeness,  that, 
sensible  of  his  own  unacquaintedness  with  the  busi- 
ness, and  of  my  knowledge  and  abilities,  he  could 
noD  think  of  undertaking  it  without  me;  but,  with 
me,  he  should  do  it  most  readily;  for  he  should  found 
his  expectation  of  success  on  my  assistance.  He 
therefore  had  desired  this  meeting,  to  know  my 
mind  upon  a  proposition  of  my  going  with  him  in 
some  shape  or  other,  as  a  friend,  an  assistant,  or 
secretary;  that  he  was  very  sensible,  if  he  should 
be  so  happy  as  to  effect  any  thing  valuable,  it  must 
be  wholly  owing  to  the  advice  and  assistance  I  should 
afford  him;  that  he  should  therefore  make  no  scruple 
of  giving  me  upon  all  occasions  the  full  honor  of  it; 
that  he  had  declared  to  the  ministers  his  opinion  of 
my  good  dispositions  towards  peace,  and  what  he 
now  wished  was  to  be  authorized  by  me  to  say,  that 
I  consented  to  accompany  him,  and  would  cooperate 
with  him  in  the  great  work  of  reconciliation;    that 


62  The  Works  of  [1775 

the  influence  I  had  over  the  minds  of  people  in 
America  was  known  to  be  very  extensive ;  and  that 
I  could,  if  any  man  could,  prevail  with  them  to  com- 
ply with  reasonable  propositions. 

I  replied,  that  I  was  obliged  to  his  lordship  for 
the  favorable  opinion  he  had  of  me,  and  for  the  honor 
he  did  me  in  proposing  to  make  use  of  my  assistance ; 
that  I  wished  to  know  what  propositions  were  in- 
tended for  America;  that,  if  they  were  reasonable 
ones  in  themselves,  possibly  I  might  be  able  to  make 
them  appear  such  to  my  countrymen;  but,  if  they 
were  otherwise,  I  doubted  whether  that  could  be 
done  by  any  man,  and  certainly  I  should  not  under- 
take it.  His  lordship  then  said  that  he  should  not 
expect  my  assistance  without  a  proper  consideration. 
That  the  business  was  of  great  importance;  and,  if 
he  undertook  it,  he  should  insist  on  being  enabled 
to  make  generous  and  ample  appointments  for  those 
he  took  with  him,  particularly  for  me;  as  well  as  a 
firm  promise  of  subsequent  rewards.  "And,"  said 
he,  "that  the  ministry  may  have  an  opportunity  of 
showing  their  good  disposition  towards  yourself, 
will  you  give  me  leave,  Mr.  Franklin,  to  procure  for 
you  previously  some  mark  of  it;  suppose  the  pay- 
ment here  of  the  arrears  of  your  salary,  as  agent  for 
New  England,  which  I  understand  they  have  stopped 
for  some  time  past?"  "My  lord,"  said  I,  "I  shall 
deem  it  a  great  honor  to  be  in  any  shape  joined  with 
your  lordship  in  so  good  a  work;  but,  if  you  hope 
service  from  any  influence  I  may  be  supposed  to 
have,  drop  all  thoughts  of  procuring  me  any  previ- 
ous favors  from  ministers ;  my  accepting  them  would 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  63 

destroy  the  ver>^  influence  you  propose  to  make  use 
of ;  they  would  be  considered  as  so  many  bribes  to 
betray  the  interest  of  my  country;  but  only  let  me 
see  the  propositions,  and,  if  I  approve  of  them,  I 
shall  not  hesitate  a  moment,  but  will  hold  myself 
ready  to  accompany  your  lordship  at  an  hour's 
warning."  He  then  said  he  wished  I  would  dis- 
course with  Lord  Hyde  upon  the  business,  and  asked 
if  I  had  any  objection  to  meet  his  lordship.  I 
answered,  none,  not  the  least;  that  I  had  a  great  re- 
spect for  Lord  Hyde,  and  would  wait  upon  him 
whenever  he  should  be  pleased  to  permit  it.  He 
said  he  would  speak  to  Lord  Hyde,  and  send  me  word. 
On  the  Monday  following,  I  received  a  letter  from 
Lord  Howe.  To  understand  it  better,  it  is  necessary 
to  reflect  that  in  the  meantime  there  was  opportunity 
for  Mr.  Barclay  to  commimicate  to  that  nobleman 
the  "Remarks"  I  had  made  on  the  Plan,  the  sight 
of  which  had  probably  changed  the  purpose  of  mak- 
ing any  use  of  me  on  the  occasion.  The  letter 
follows : 

"Grafton  Street,  February  20,  1775. 

"  Not  having  had  a  convenient  opportunity  to 
talk  with  Lord  Hyde  until  this  morning,  on  the  sub- 
ject I  mentioned  when  I  had,  my  worthy  friend,  the 
pleasure  to  see  you  last,  I  now  give  you  the  earliest 
information  of  his  lordship's  sentiments  upon  my 
proposition. 

"He  declares  he  has  no  personal  objection,  and  that 
he  is  always  desirous  of  the  conversation  of  men  of 
knowledge;  consequently,  in  that  respect,  would 
have  a  pleasure  in  yours.     But  he  apprehends  that 


64  The  Works  of  [1775 

on  the  present  American  contest  your  principles 
and  his,  or  rather  those  of  Parliament,  are  as  yet  so 
wide  from  each  other,  that  a  meeting  merely  to  dis- 
cuss them  might  give  you  unnecessary  trouble. 
Should  you  think  otherwise,  or  should  any  pro- 
pitious circumstances  approximate  such  distant 
sentiments,  he  would  be  happy  to  be  used  as  a  chan- 
nel to  convey  what  might  tend  to  harmony  from  a 
person  of  credit  to  those  in  power.  And  I  will  ven- 
ture to  advance,  from  my  knowledge  of  his  lordship's 
opinion  of  men  and  things,  that  nothing  of  that 
nature  would  suffer  in  the  passage. 

"  I  am,  with  sincere  regard,  your  most  obedient 
servant,  "  Howe. 

"To  Dr.  Franklin." 

As  I  had  no  desire  of  obtruding  myself  upon  Lord 
Hyde,  though  a  little  piqued  at  his  declining  to  see 
me,  I  thought  it  best  to  show  a  decent  indifference, 
which  I  endeavored  in  the  following  answer: 

"Craven  Street,  February  20,  1775. 

"  Having  nothing  to  offer  on  the  American  busi- 
ness in  addition  to  what  Lord  Hyde  is  already  ac- 
quainted with  from  the  papers  that  have  passed,  it 
seems  most  respectful  not  to  give  his  lordship  the 
trouble  of  a  visit;  since  a  mere  discussion  of  the 
sentiments  contained  in  those  papers  is  not,  in  his 
opinion,  likely  to  produce  any  good  effect.  I  am 
thankful,  however,  to  his  lordship  for  the  permission 
of  waiting  on  him,  which  I  shall  use  if  any  thing  oc- 
curs that  may  give  a  chance  of  utility  in  such  an 
interview. 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  65 

"  With  sincere  esteem  and  respect,  I  have  the  honor 
to  be,  my  lord,  your  lordship's  most  obedient  humble 
servant,  "  B.  Franklin. 

"To  Lord  Howe." 

On  the  morning  of  the  same  day,  February  20th, 
it  was  currently  and  industriously  reported  all  over 
the  town,  that  Lord  North  would  that  day  make  a 
pacific  motion  in  the  House  of  Commons  for  healing 
all  differences  between  Britain  and  America.  The 
House  was  accordingly  very  full,  and  the  members 
full  of  expectation.  The  Bedford  party,  inimical  to 
America,  and  who  had  urged  severe  measures,  were 
alarmed,  and  began  to  exclaim  against  the  minister 
for  his  timidity,  and  the  fluctuation  of  his  politics; 
they  even  began  to  count  voices,  to  see  if  they  could 
not,  by  negativing  his  motion,  at  once  imhorse  him, 
and  throw  him  out  of  administration.  His  friends 
were  therefore  alarmed  for  him,  and  there  was  much 
caballing  and  whispering.  At  length  a  motion,  as 
one  had  been  promised,  was  made,  but  whether  that 
originally  intended,  is  with  me  very  doubtful.  I  sus- 
pect, from  its  imperfect  composition,  from  its  inade- 
quateness  to  answer  the  purpose  previously  pro- 
fessed, and  from  some  other  circumstances,  that, 
when  first  drawn,  it  contained  more  of  Mr.  Barclay's 
plan,  but  was  curtailed  by  advice,  just  before  it  was 
delivered.  My  old  proposition  of  giving  up  the 
regulating  duties  to  the  colonies  was  in  part  to  be 
found  in  it;  and  many,  who  knew  nothing  of  that 
transaction,  said  it  was  the  best  part  of  the  motion. 
It  was  as  follows : 


66  The  Works  of  [1775 

"lord    north's    motion,    FEBRUARY    20,    1775 

"  That  it  is  the  opinion  of  this  committee,  that 
when  the  Governor,  Council,  and  Assembly,  or  the 
General  Court  of  his  Majesty's  provinces  or  colonies 
shall  propose  to  make  provision  according  to  their 
respective  conditions,  circumstances,  and  situations, 
for  contributing  their  proportion  to  the  common 
defence,  such  proportion  to  be  raised  under  the 
authority  of  the  General  Court  or  General  Assembly 
of  such  province  or  colony,  and  disposable  by  Par- 
liament, and  shall  engage  to  make  provision  also  for 
the  support  of  the  civil  government  and  the  admin- 
istration of  justice  in  such  province  or  colony,  it 
will  be  proper,  if  such  proposal  shall  be  approved 
by  his  Majesty  in  Parliament,  and  for  so  long  as 
such  provision  shall  be  made  accordingly,  to  for- 
bear, in  respect  of  such  province  or  colony,  to  levy 
any  duties,  tax,  or  assessment,  or  to  impose  any 
further  duty,  tax,  or  assessment,  except  only  such 
duties  as  it  may  be  expedient  to  impose  for  the 
regulation  of  commerce;  the  net  produce  of  the 
duties  last  mentioned  to  be  carried  to  the  account 
of  such  province,  colony,  or  plantation,  exclusively." 

After  a  good  deal  of  wild  debate,  in  which  this  mo- 
tion was  supported  upon  various  and  inconsistent 
principles  by  the  ministerial  people,  and  even  met 
with  an  opposition  from  some  of  them,  which  showed 
a  want  of  concert,  probably  from  the  suddenness  of 
the  alterations  above  supposed,  they  all  agreed  at 
length,  as  usual,  in  voting  it  by  a  large  majority. 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  67 

Hearing  nothing  during  all  the  following  week 
from  Messrs.  Barclay  and  Fothergill,  (except  that 
Lord  Hyde,  when  acquainted  with  my  willingness  to 
engage  for  the  payment  of  the  tea,  had  said  it  gave 
him  new  life,)  nor  any  thing  from  Lord  Howe,  I 
mentioned  his  silence  occasionally  to  his  sister,  add- 
ing, that  I  supposed  it  owing  to  his  finding  what  he 
proposed  to  me  was  not  likely  to  take  place;  and  I 
wished  her  to  desire  him,  if  that  was  the  case,  to  let 
me  know  it  by  a  line,  that  I  might  be  at  liberty  to 
take  other  measures.  She  did  so  as  soon  as  he  re- 
turned from  the  country,  where  he  had  been  for  a 
day  or  two;  and  I  received  from  her  the  following 
note : 

"Mrs.  Howe's  compliments  to  Dr.  Franklin;  Lord 
Howp  not  quite  understanding  the  message  received 
from  her,  will  be  very  glad  to  have  the  pleasure  of 
seeing  him,  either  between  twelve  and  one  this 
morning  (the  only  hour  he  is  at  liberty  this  day),  at 
her  house,  or  at  any  hour  to-morrow  most  convenient 
to  him. 

"  Graf  ton  Street,  Tuesday." 

I  met  his  lordship  at  the  hour  appointed.  He  said 
that  he  had  not  seen  me  lately,  as  he  expected  daily 
to  have  something  more  material  to  say  to  me  than 
had  yet  occurred;  and  hoped  that  I  would  have 
called  on  Lord  Hyde,  as  I  had  intimated  I  should  do 
when  I  apprehended  it  might  be  useful,  which  he  was 
sorry  to  find  I  had  not  done.  That  there  was  some- 
thing in  my  verbal  message  by  Mrs.  Howe,  which 
perhaps  she  had  apprehended  imperfectly;    it  was 


68  The  Works  of  [1775 

the  hint  of  my  purpose  to  take  other  measures.  I 
answered  that  having,  since  I  had  last  seen  his  lord- 
ship, heard  of  the  death  of  my  wife  at  Philadelphia, 
in  whose  hands  I  had  left  the  care  of  my  affairs  there, 
it  was  become  necessary  for  me  to  return  thither  as 
soon  as  conveniently  might  be;  that  what  his  lord- 
ship had  proposed  of  my  accompanying  him  to 
America  might,  if  likely  to  take  place,  postpone  my 
voyage  to  suit  his  conveniency;  otherwise,  I  should 
proceed  by  the  first  ship;  that  I  did  suppose  by  not 
hearing  from  him,  and  by  Lord  North's  motion,  all 
thoughts  of  that  kind  were  laid  aside,  which  was 
what  I  only  desired  to  know  from  him. 

He  said  my  last  paper  of  "  Remarks,"  by  Mr.  Bar- 
clay, wherein  I  had  made  the  indemnification  of  Bos- 
ton, for  the  injury  of  stopping  its  ports,  a  condition 
of  my  engaging  to  pay  for  the  tea  (a  condition  im- 
possible to  be  complied  with),  had  discouraged  fur- 
ther proceeding  on  that  idea.  Having  a  copy  of  that 
paper  in  my  pocket,  I  showed  his  lordship  that  I  had 
proposed  no  such  condition  of  my  engagement,  nor 
any  other  than  the  repeal  of  all  the  Massachusetts 
acts.  That  what  followed  relating  to  the  indemnifi- 
cation was  only  expressing  my  private  opinion  that 
it  would  be  just,  but  by  no  means  insisting  upon  it. 
He  said  the  arrangements  were  not  yet  determined 
on;  that,  as  I  now  explained  myself,  it  appeared  I 
had  been  much  misapprehended;  and  he  wished  of 
all  things  I  would  still  see  Lord  Hyde,  and  asked  if 
I  would  choose  to  meet  him  there  (at  Mrs.  Howe's), 
or  that  he  should  call  upon  me.  I  said  that  I  would 
by  no  means  give  Lord  Hyde  that  trouble.     That 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  69 

since  he  (Lord  Howe)  seemed  to  think  it  might  be  of 
use,  and  wished  it  done  soon,  I  wotild  wait  upon  Lord 
Hyde.  I  knew  him  to  be  an  early  riser,  and  would 
be  with  him  at  eight  o'clock  the  next  morning; 
which  Lord  Howe  undertook  to  acquaint  him  with. 
But  I  added  that,  from  what  circumstances  I  could 
collect  of  the  disposition  of  the  ministry,  I  appre- 
hended my  visit  would  answer  no  material  purpose. 
He  was  of  a  different  opinion ;  to  which  I  submitted. 

The  next  morning,  March  ist,  I  accordingly  was 
early  with  Lord  Hyde,  who  received  me  with  his 
usual  politeness.  We  talked  over  a  great  part  of  the 
dispute  between  the  countries.  I  found  him  ready 
with  all  the  newspaper  and  pamphlet  topics:  of  the 
expense  of  settling  our  colonies,  the  protection  af- 
forded them,  the  heavy  debt  under  which  Britain 
labored,  the  equity  of  our  contributing  to  its  allevia- 
tion; that  many  people  in  England  were  no  more 
represented  than  we  were,  yet  all  were  taxed  and 
governed  by  Parliament,  etc.,  etc.  I  answered  all, 
but  with  little  effect ;  for,  though  his  lordship  seemed 
civilly  to  hear  what  I  said,  I  had  reason  to  believe  he 
attended  very  little  to  the  purport  of  it,  his  mind 
being  employed  the  while  in  thinking  on  what  he 
himself  purposed  to  say  next. 

He  had  hoped,  he  said,  that  Lord  North's  motion 
would  have  been  satisfactory ;  and  asked  what  could 
be  objected  to  it.  I  replied  the  terms  of  it  were  that 
we  should  grant  money  till  ParUament  had  agreed  we 
had  given  enough,  without  having  the  least  share 
in  judging  of  the  propriety  of  the  measure  for  which  it 
was  to  be  granted,  or  of  our  own  abilities  to  grant; 


70  The  Works  of  [1775 

that  these  grants  were  also  to  be  made  under  a  threat 
of  exercising  a  claimed  right  of  taxing  us  at  pleasure, 
and  compelling  such  taxes  by  an  armed  force,  if  we 
did  not  give  till  it  should  be  thought  we  had  given 
enough ;  that  the  proposition  was  similar  to  no  mode 
of  obtaining  aids  that  ever  existed,  except  that  of  a 
highwayman,  who  presents  his  pistol  and  hat  at  a 
coach  window,  demanding  no  specific  sum,  but,  if  you 
will  give  him  all  your  money,  or  what  he  is  pleased  to 
think  sufficient,  he  will  civilly  omit  putting  his  own 
hand  into  your  pockets;  if  not,  there  is  his  pistol. 
That  the  mode  of  raising  contributions  in  an  enemy's 
country  was  fairer  than  this,  since  there  an  explicit 
sum  was  demanded,  and  the  people  who  were  raising 
it  knew  what  they  were  about,  and  when  they 
should  have  done ;  and  that,  in  short,  no  free  people 
could  ever  think  of  beginning  to  grant  upon  such 
terms.  That,  besides,  a  new  dispute  had  now  been 
raised  by  the  Parliament's  pretending  to  a  power  of 
altering  our  charters  and  established  laws,  which  was 
of  still  more  importance  to  us  than  their  claim  of 
taxation,  as  it  set  us  all  adrift,  and  left  us  without 
a  privilege  we  could  depend  upon  but  at  their  pleas- 
ure ;  this  was  a  situation  we  could  not  possibly  be  in ; 
and,  as  Lord  North's  proposition  had  no  relation  to 
this  matter,  if  the  other  had  been  such  as  we  could 
have  agreed  to,  we  should  still  be  far  from  a  recon- 
ciliation. 

His  lordship  thought  I  misunderstood  the  propo- 
sition; on  which  I  took  it  out  and  read  it.  He  then 
waived  that  point,  and  said  he  should  be  glad  to  know 
from  me,  what  would  produce  a  reconciliation.     I 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  71 

said,  that  his  lordship,  I  imagined,  had  seen  several 
proposals  of  mine  for  that  purpose.  He  said  he 
had;  but  some  of  my  articles  were  such  as  would 
never  be  agreed  to.  That  it  was  apprehended  I  had 
several  instructions  and  powers  to  offer  more  accept- 
able terms,  but  was  extremely  reserved,  and  perhaps 
from  a  desire  he  did  not  blame,  of  doing  better  for 
my  constituents ;  but  my  expectations  might  deceive 
me;  and  he  did  think  I  might  be  assured  I  should 
never  obtain  better  terms  than  what  were  now  offered 
by  Lord  North.  That  administration  had  a  sincere 
desire  of  restoring  harmony  with  America;  and  it 
was  thought,  if  I  would  cooperate  with  them,  the 
business  would  be  easy.  That  he  hoped  I  was  above 
retaining  resentment  against  them,  for  what  nobody 
now  approved,  and  for  which  satisfaction  might  be 
made  me;  that  I  was,  as  he  understood,  in  high 
esteem  among  the  Americans;  that,  if  I  would  bring 
about  a  reconciliation  on  terms  suitable  to  the  dig- 
nity of  government,  I  might  be  as  highly  and  gener- 
ally esteemed  here,  and  be  honored  and  rewarded, 
perhaps,  beyond  my  expectation. 

I  replied,  that  I  thought  I  had  given  a  convincing 
proof  of  my  sincere  desire  of  promoting  peace,  when, 
on  being  informed  that  all  wanted  for  the  honor  of 
government  was,  to  obtain  payment  for  the  tea,  I  of- 
fered, without  any  instruction  to  warrant  my  so 
doing,  or  assurance  that  I  should  be  reimbursed,  or 
my  conduct  approved,  to  engage  for  that  payment, 
if  the  Massachusetts  acts  were  to  be  repealed;  an 
engagement  in  which  I  must  have  risked  my  whole 
fortune,  which  I  thought  few  besides  me  would  have 


72  The  Works  of 


.1775 


done.  That,  in  truth,  private  resentments  had  no 
weight  with  me  in  public  business;  that  I  was  not 
the  reserved  man  imagined,  having  really  no  secret 
instructions  to  act  upon.  That  I  was  certainly 
willing  to  do  every  thing  that  could  reasonably  be 
expected  of  me.  But,  if  any  supposed  I  could  pre- 
vail with  my  countrymen  to  take  black  for  white, 
and  wrong  for  right,  it  was  not  knowing  either  them 
or  me;  they  were  not  capable  of  being  so  imposed 
on,  nor  was  I  capable  of  attempting  it. 

He  then  asked  my  opinion  of  sending  over  a  com- 
missioner, for  the  purpose  mentioned  in  a  preceding 
part  of  this  account,  and  my  answer  was  to  the  same 
effect.  By  the  way,  I  apprehend  that  to  give  me  an 
opportunity  of  discoursing  with  Lord  Hyde  on  that 
point,  was  a  principal  motive  with  Lord  Howe  for 
urging  me  to  make  this  visit.  His  lordship  did  not 
express  his  own  sentiments  upon  it.  And  thus  ended 
this  conversation. 

Three  or  four  days  after  I  received  the  following 
note  from  Mrs.  Howe: 

"  Mrs.  Howe's  compliments  to  Dr.  Franklin;  Lord 
Howe  begs  to  have  the  pleasure  of  meeting  him  once 
more  before  he  goes,  at  her  house;  he  is  at  present 
out  of  town,  but  returns  on  Monday;  and  any  day 
or  hour  after  that,  that  the  Doctor  will  name,  he  will 
be  very  glad  to  attend  him. 

"Grafton  Street,  Saturday,  March  4th." 

I  answered  that  I  would  do  myself  the  honor  of 
waiting  on  Lord  Howe,  at  her  house,  the  Tuesday 
following  at  eleven  o'clock.     We  met  accordingly. 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  i:s 

He  began  by  saying  that  I  had  been  a  better  prophet 
than  himself,  in  foreseeing  that  my  interview  with 
Lord  Hyde  would  be  of  no  great  use ;  and  then  said 
that  he  hoped  I  would  excuse  the  trouble  he  had 
given  me,  as  his  intentions  had  been  good  both 
towards  me  and  the  public.  He  was  sorry  that  at 
present  there  was  no  appearance  of  things  going  into 
the  train  he  had  wished,  but  that  possibly  they  might 
yet  take  a  more  favorable  turn ;  and  as  he  understood 
I  was  going  soon  to  America,  if  he  should  chance  to 
be  sent  thither  on  that  important  business,  he  hoped 
he  might  still  expect  my  assistance.  I  assured  him 
of  my  readiness  at  all  times  of  cooperating  with  him 
in  so  good  a  work;  and  so,  taking  my  leave,  and  re- 
ceiving his  good  wishes,  ended  the  negotiations  with 
Lord  Howe.  And  I  heard  no  more  of  that  with 
Messrs.  Fothergill  and  Barclay.  I  could  only  gather, 
from  some  hints  in  their  conversation,  that  neither 
of  them  were  well  pleased  with  the  conduct  of  the 
ministers  respecting  these  transactions.  And  a  few 
days  before  I  left  London,  I  met  them,  by  their  de- 
sire, at  the  Doctor's  house,  when  they  desired  me  to 
assure  their  friends  for  them,  that  it  was  now  their 
fixed  opinion  that  nothing  could  secure  the  privileges 
of  America  but  a  firm,  sober  adherence  to  the  terms 
of  the  association  made  at  the  Congress,  and  that  the 
salvation  of  English  liberty  depended  now  on  the 
perseverance  and  virtue  of  America, 

During  the  whole,  my  time  was  otherwise  much 
taken  up  by  friends  calling  continually  to  inquire 
news  from  America;  members  of  both  Houses  of 
Parliament,  to  inform  me  what  passed  in  the  Houses, 


74  The  Works  of  [1775 

and  discourse  with  me  on  the  debates,  and  no  mo- 
tions made  or  to  be  made ;  merchants  of  London  and 
of  the  manufacturing  and  port  towns,  on  their  peti- 
tions; the  Quakers,  upon  theirs,  etc.,  etc.;  so  that  I 
had  no  time  to  take  notes  of  almost  any  thing.  This 
account  is  therefore  chiefly  from  recollection,  in 
which  doubtless  much  must  have  been  omitted,  from 
deficiency  of  memory ;  but  what  there  is  I  believe  to 
be  pretty  exact;  except  that  discoursing  with  so 
many  different  persons  about  the  same  time  on  the 
same  subject,  I  may  possibly  have  put  down  some 
things  as  said  by  or  to  one  person,  which  passed  in 
conversation  with  another. 

A  little  before  I  left  London,  being  at  the  House 
of  Lords,  during  a  debate  in  which  Lord  Camden  was 
to  speak,  and  who  indeed  spoke  admirably  on  Amer- 
ican affairs,  I  was  much  disgusted,  from  the  minis- 
terial side,  by  many  base  reflections  on  American 
courage,  religion,  understanding,  etc.,  in  which  we 
were  treated  with  the  utmost  contempt,  as  the  low- 
est of  mankind,  and  almost  of  a  different  species 
from  the  English  of  Britain;  but  particularly  the 
American  honesty  was  abused  by  some  of  the  Lords, 
who  asserted  that  we  were  all  knaves,  and  wanted 
only  by  this  dispute  to  avoid  paying  our  debts ;  that 
if  we  had  any  sense  of  equity  or  justice,  we  should 
offer  payment  of  the  tea,  etc.  I  went  home  some- 
what irritated  and  heated;  and  partly  to  retort  upon 
this  nation,  on  the  article  of  equity,  drew  up  a  me- 
morial to  present  to  Lord  Dartmouth  before  my 
departure;  but,  consulting  my  friend,  Mr.  Thomas 
Walpole,  upon  it,  who  is  a  member  of  the  House 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  75 

of  Commons,  he  looked  at  it  and  at  me  several  times 
alternately,  as  if  he  apprehended  me  a  little  out  of 
my  senses.  As  I  was  in  the  hurry  of  packing  up,  I 
requested  him  to  take  the  trouble  of  showing  it  to 
his  neighbor.  Lord  Camden,  and  ask  his  advice  upon 
it,  which  he  kindly  undertook  to  do;  and  returned 
it  to  me  with  a  note,  which  here  follows  the  proposed 
memorial : 

"  A  MEMORIAL  OF  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN,  AGENT  OF  THE 
PROVINCE    OF    MASSACHUSETTS    BAY 

"  To  the  Right  Honorable  the  Earl  of  Dartmouth,  one  of 
his  Majesty's  principal  Secretaries  of  State: 
"  Whereas  an  injury  done  can  only  give  the  party 
injured  a  right  to  full  reparation ;  or,  in  case  that  be 
refused,  a  right  to  return  an  equal  injury ;  and  where- 
as the  blockade  of  Boston,  now  continued  nine 
months,  hath  every  week  of  its  continuance  done 
damage  to  that  town,  equal  to  what  was  suffered 
there  by  the  India  Company;  it  follows  that  such 
exceeding  damage  is  an  injury  done  by  this  govern- 
ment, for  which  reparation  ought  to  be  made;  and 
whereas  reparation  of  injuries  ought  always  (agree- 
ably to  the  custom  of  all  nations,  savage  as  well  as 
civilized)  to  be  first  required,  before  satisfaction  is 
taken  by  a  return  of  damage  to  the  aggressors ;  which 
was  not  done  by  Great  Britain  in  the  instance  above 
mentioned;  I  the  underwritten  do  therefore,  as  their 
agent,  in  the  behalf  of  my  country  and  the  said  town 
of  Boston,  protest  against  the  continuance  of  the 
said  blockade;  and  I  do  hereby  solemnly  demand 
satisfaction  for  the  accumulated  injury  done  them, 


76  The  Works  of  [1775 

beyond  the  value  of  the  India  Company's  tea  de- 
stroyed. 

"  And  whereas  the  conquest  of  the  Gulf  of  St.  Law- 
rence, the  coasts  of  Labrador  and  Nova  Scotia,  and 
the  fisheries  possessed  by  the  French  there  and  on 
the  Banks  of  Newfoundland,  so  far  as  they  were 
more  extended  than  at  present,  was  made  by  the 
joint  forces  of  Britain  and  the  colonies,  the  latter 
having  nearly  an  equal  number  of  men  in  that  ser- 
vice with  the  former,  it  follows  that  the  colonies  have 
an  equitable  and  just  right  to  participate  in  the  ad- 
vantage of  those  fisheries;  I  do,  therefore,  in  the  be- 
half of  the  colony  of  the  Massachusetts  Bay,  protest 
against  the  act  now  under  consideration  in  Parlia- 
ment, for  depriving  that  province,  with  others,  of 
that  fishery  (on  pretence  of  their  refusing  to  purchase 
British  commodities),  as  an  act  highly  unjust  and 
injurious;  and  I  give  notice,  that  satisfaction  will 
probably  one  day  be  demanded  for  all  the  injury  that 
may  be  done  and  suffered  in  the  execution  of  such 
act ;  and  that  the  injustice  of  the  proceeding  is  likely 
to  give  such  umbrage  to  all  the  colonies,  that  in  no 
future  war,  wherein  other  conquests  may  be  medi- 
tated, either  a  man  or  a  shilling  will  be  obtained  from 
any  of  them  to  aid  such  conquests,  till  full  satisfac- 
tion be  made  as  aforesaid.  B.  Franklin. 

"Given  in  London,  this  i6th  day  of  March,  1775." 

"  Dear  Sir: — I  return  you  the  memorial,  which  it 
is  thought  might  be  attended  with  dangerous  con- 
sequences to  your  person,  and  contribute  to  exas- 
perate the  nation. 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  n 

"  I  heartily  wish  you  a  prosperous  voyage,  and  long 
health,  and  am,  with  the  sincerest  regard,  your  most 
faithful  and  obedient  servant, 

"Thomas  Walpole. 

"Lincoln's  Inn  Fields,  i6th  March,  1775." 

Mr.  Walpole  called  at  my  house  the  next  day,  and, 
hearing  I  was  gone  to  the  House  of  Lords,  came  there 
to  me,  and  repeated  more  fully  what  was  in  his  note; 
adding,  that  it  was  thought  my  having  no  instruc- 
tions directing  me  to  deliver  such  a  protest,  would 
make  it  appear  still  more  tmjustifiable,  and  be  deemed 
a  national  affront.  I  had  no  desire  to  make  matters 
worse,  and,  being  grown  cooler,  took  the  advice  so 
kindly  given  me. 

The  evening  before  I  left  London,  I  received  a 
note  from  Dr.  Fothergill,  with  some  letters  to  his 
friends  in  Philadelphia.  In  that  note  he  desires  me 
to  get  those  friends  "  and  two  or  three  more  together, 
and  inform  them  that,  whatever  specious  pretences 
are  offered,  they  are  all  hollow;  and  that  to  get  a 
larger  field  on  which  to  fatten  a  herd  of  worthless 
parasites  is  all  that  is  regarded.  Perhaps  it  may  be 
proper  to  acquaint  them  with  David  Barclay's  and 
our  united  endeavors,  and  the  effects.  They  will 
stun  at  least,  if  not  convince,  the  most  worthy,  that 
nothing  very  favorable  is  intended,  if  more  un- 
favorable articles  cannot  be  obtained. "  The  Doctor, 
in  the  course  of  his  daily  visits  among  the  great, 
in  the  practice  of  his  profession,  had  full  opportunity 
of  being  acquainted  with  their  sentiments,  the  con- 
versation everywhere  turning  upon  the  subject  of 
America. 


78  The  Works  of  [1775 

DXCIX 

TO    JOSEPH    PRIESTLEY 

Philadelphia,  i6  May,  1775. 

Dear  Friend: — You  will  have  heard,  before  this 
reaches  you,  of  a  march  stolen  by  the  regulars  into 
the  country  by  night,  and  of  their  expedition  back 
again.  They  retreated  twenty  miles  in  six  hours. ^ 
The  governor  had  called  the  Assembly  to  propose 
Lord  North's  pacific  plan,  but,  before  the  time  of 
their  meeting,  began  cutting  of  throats.  You  know 
it  was  said  he  carried  the  sword  in  one  hand  and  the 
olive  branch  in  the  other;  and  it  seems  he  chose  to 
give  them  a  taste  of  the  sword  first. 

He  is  doubling  his  fortifications  at  Boston,  and 
hopes  to  secure  his  troops  till  succor  arrives.  The 
place  indeed  is  naturally  so  defensible  that  I  think 
them  in  no  danger.  All  America  is  exasperated  by 
his  conduct,  and  more  firmly  united  than  ever.  The 
breach  between  the  two  countries  is  grown  wider, 
and  in  danger  of  becoming  irreparable. 

I  had  a  passage  of  six  weeks,  the  weather  con- 
stantly so  moderate  that  a  London  wherry  might 
have  accompanied  us  all  the  way.  I  got  home  in 
the  evening,  and  the  next  morning  was  unanimously 
chosen  by  the  Assembly  of  Pennsylvania  a  delegate 
to  the  Congress  now  sitting. 

In  coming  over  I  made  a  valuable  philosophical 
discovery,  which  I  shall  communicate  to  you  when  I 
can  get  a  little  time."  At  present  I  am  extremely 
hurried.    Yours  most  affectionately,    B .  Franklin . 

1  Alluding  to  the  affair  at  Lexington  and  Concord. 

2  Alluding  to  his  experiments  with  a  thermometer  in  crossing  the 
Gulf  Stream. 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  79 

DC 

TO    MRS.    JANE    MECOM 

Philadelphia,  26  May,  1775. 

Dear  Sister: — I  have  just  now  heard,  by  Mr. 
Adams,  that  you  are  come  out  of  Boston,  and  are  at 
Warwick,  in  Rhode  Island.  I  suppose  it  must  be  at 
good  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Greene's,  to  whom  present  my 
affectionate  respects.  I  write  this  Hne  just  to  let  you 
know  that  I  am  returned  well  from  England,  and 
that  I  found  my  family  well ;  but  have  not  found  the 
repose  I  wished  for,  being  the  next  morning  after  my 
arrival  delegated  to  the  Congress  by  our  Assembly. 

I  wish  to  hear  from  you,  and  to  know  how  you 
have  left  your  affairs  in  Boston;  and  whether  it 
would  be  inconvenient  for  you  to  come  hither;  or 
you  wish  rather  that  I  should  come  to  see  you,  if  the 
business  I  am  engaged  in  will  permit.  Let  me  know 
if  you  want  any  assistance,  and  what  is  become  of 
cousin  Williams  and  his  family,  and  other  friends. 
Jonathan  was  at  Paris  when  I  left  England,  but  to 
return  in  a  week  or  two.  I  am  ever,  my  dear  sister, 
your  very  loving  brother, 

B.  Franklin. 


DCI 


TO    MR.    STRAHAN  ^ 

Philadelphia,  5  July,  1775. 

Mr.  Strahan  : — You  are  a  member  of  Parliament, 
and  one  of  that  majority  which  has  doomed  my 

^  King's  printer,  London. 


8o  The  Works  of  [1775 

country  to  destruction.  You  have  begun  to  burn 
our  towns,  and  murder  our  people.  Look  upon  your 
hands;  they  are  stained  with  the  blood  of  your  rela- 
tions! You  and  I  were  long  friends;  you  are  now 
my  enemy,  and  I  am, 

Yours, 

B.  Franklin. 


DCII 


TO   JOSEPH    PRIESTLEY 

Philadelphia,  7  July,  1775. 

Dear  Friend  : — The  Congress  met  at  a  time  when 
all  minds  were  so  exasperated  by  the  perfidy  of  Gen- 
eral Gage,  and  his  attack  on  the  country  people,  that 
propositions  for  attempting  an  accommodation  were 
not  much  relished;  and  it  has  been  with  difficulty 
that  we  have  carried  another  humble  petition  to  the 
crown,  to  give  Britain  one  more  chance,  one  oppor- 
tunity more,  of  recovering  the  friendship  of  the  col- 
onies; which,  however,  I  think  she  has  not  sense 
enough  to  embrace,  and  so  I  conclude  she  has  lost 
them  forever. 

She  has  begun  to  bum  our  seaport  towns;  secure, 
I  suppose,  that  we  shall  never  be  able  to  return  the 
outrage  in  kind.  She  may  doubtless  destroy  them 
all;  but,  if  she  wishes  to  recover  our  commerce,  are 
these  the  probable  means?  She  must  certainly  be 
distracted;  for  no  tradesman  out  of  Bedlam  ever 
thought  of  increasing  the  number  of  his  customers, 
by  knocking  them  on  the  head ;  or  of  enabling  them 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  8i 

to  pay  their  debts,  by  burning  their  houses.  If  she 
wishes  to  have  us  subjects,  and  that  we  shovild  sub- 
mit to  her  as  our  compound  sovereign,  she  is  now 
giving  us  such  miserable  specimens  of  her  govern- 
ment, that  we  shall  ever  detest  and  avoid  it,  as  a 
complication  of  robbery,  murder,  famine,  fire,  and 
pestilence. 

You  will  have  heard,  before  this  reaches  you,  of 
the  treacherous  conduct  of  General  Gage  to  the  re- 
maining people  in  Boston,  in  detaining  their  goods, 
after  stipulating  to  let  them  go  out  with  their 
effects,  on  pretence  that  merchants'  goods  were  not 
effects;  the  defeat  of  a  great  body  of  his  troops  by 
the  country  people  at  Lexington;  some  other  small 
advantages  gained  in  skirmishes  with  their  troops; 
and  the  action  at  Bunker's  Hill,  in  which  they  were 
twice  repulsed,  and  the  third  time  gained  a  dear 
victory.  Enough  has  happened,  one  would  think,  to 
convince  your  ministers  that  the  Americans  will 
fight,  and  that  this  is  a  harder  nut  to  crack  than  they 
imagined. 

We  have  not  yet  applied  to  any  foreign  power 
for  assistance,  nor  offered  our  commerce  for  their 
friendship.  Perhaps  we  never  may ;  yet  it  is  natural 
to  think  of  it  if  we  are  pressed.  We  have  now  an 
army  on  the  establishment,  which  still  holds  yours 
besieged.  My  time  was  never  more  fully  employed. 
In  the  morning  at  six,  I  am  at  the  Committee  of 
Safety,  appointed  by  the  Assembly  to  put  the  prov- 
ince in  a  state  of  defence;  which  committee  holds 
till  near  nine,  when  I  am  at  the  Congress,  and  that 
sits  till   after  four  in  the  afternoon.     Both  these 


82  The  Works  of  [1775 

bodies  proceed  with  the  greatest  unanimity,  and 
their  meetings  are  well  attended.  It  will  scarce 
be  credited  in  Britain,  that  men  can  be  as  diligent 
with  us  from  zeal  for  the  public  good,  as  with  you 
for  thousands  per  annum.  Such  is  the  difference 
between  uncorrupted  new  states,  and  corrupted  old 
ones. 

Great  frugality  and  great  industry  are  now  become 
fashionable  here.  Gentlemen,  who  used  to  entertain 
with  two  or  three  courses,  pride  themselves  now  in 
treating  with  simple  beef  and  pudding.  By  these 
means,  and  the  stoppage  of  our  consumptive  trade 
with  Britain,  we  shall  be  better  able  to  pay  our 
voltmtary  taxes  for  the  support  of  our  troops.  Our 
savings  in  the  article  of  trade  amount  to  near  five 
millions  sterling  per  annum. 

I  shall  communicate  your  letter  to  Mr.  Winthrop; 
but  the  camp  is  at  Cambridge,  and  he  has  as  little 
leisure  for  philosophy  as  myself.  Believe  me  ever, 
etc.,  B.  Franklin. 


DCIII 


TO   MRS.    MARY    HEWSON 

Philadelphia,  8  July,  1775. 

My  Dear  Friend: — I  thank  you  for  your  kind 
letter  of  April  14th.  It  grieves  me  that  the  present 
situation  of  public  affairs  makes  it  not  eligible  for 
you  to  come  hither  with  your  family,  because  I  am 
sure  you  would  otherwise  like  this  country,  and  might 
provide  better  here  for  your  children,  at  the  same 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  83 

time  that  I  should  be  made  more  happy  by  your 
neighborhood  and  company.  I  flatter  myself,  that 
this  may  yet  happen,  and  that  our  public  disputes 
may  be  ended  by  the  time  your  private  business  is 
settled  to  your  mind,  and  then  we  may  be  all  happv 
together.  ^^^ 

The  debt  you  mention  of  mine  to  Bolton  remains 
unpaid  through  his  own  neglect.  I  was  charged  by 
Matthews  ten  pounds  for  the  tea-kitchen,  but  Bolton 
told  me  I  ought  not  to  pay  so  much;  that  he  would 
see  what  it  should  be  when  he  got  home,  and  send 
me  word,  which  he  never  did.  I  dunned  him  for  it 
by  letters  as  often  as  Matthews  sent  to  me,  but  re- 
ceived no  answer. 

I  take  it  kindly  of  my  godson,  that  he  should  re- 
member me ;  my  love  to  him.  I  am  glad  to  hear  the 
dear  children  are  all  well  through  the  measles.  I 
have  much  delight  in  my  godsons.  Mr.  and  Mrs 
Bache  join  in  love  to  yours.  Ben,^  when  I  delivered 
him  your  blessing,  inquired  the  age  of  Elizabeth,  and 
thought  her  yet  too  young  for  him;  but,  as  he  made 
no  other  objection,  and  that  will  lessen  every  day,  I 
have  only  to  wish  being  alive  to  dance  with  your 
mother  at  the  wedding.  Temple  was  much  obliged 
by  your  kind  remembrance  of  him.  He  is  now  very 
happy  with  his  father  at  Amboy,  near  New  York  but 
returns  to  me  in  September,  to  prosecute  his  studies 
m  our  college. 

I  am  much  pleased  with  the  contribution  letter 
and  thank  you  for  your  share  of  it.  I  am  still  well 
and  hearty,  and  never  went  through  more  business 

^  Benjamin  Franklin  Bache,  grandson  of  Dr.  Franklin. 


84  The  Works  of  [1775 

than  I  do  at  present.  God  knows  when  I  shall  be 
permitted  to  enjoy  the  repose  I  wish.  Adieu,  my 
very  dear  friend.  Continue  your  pleasing  corres- 
pondence, and  believe  me  ever  yours  most  affection- 
ately, B.  Franklin. 


DCIV 

TO    PETER    V.    B.    LIVINGSTON  ' 

Perth  Amboy,  29  August,  1775. 

Sir; — The  Committee  of  Safety  acquainted  you 
by  a  letter,  dated  the  26th  instant,  that  we  had  or- 
dered a  ton  of  gunpowder  to  be  sent  to  you,  agree- 
ably to  your  request.  It  left  Philadelphia  early  on 
Simday  morning,  and  yesterday  I  overtook  the 
wagon  on  the  road  at  Trenton,  and  left  it  proceeding 
on  the  journey.  But  being  informed  this  morning 
at  Brunswick,  that  four  wagon  loads  of  powder  had 
passed  through  that  place  on  Friday  evening  for  your 
city,  and  supposing  it  to  be  the  powder  which  you 
mentioned  as  having  been  expected  but  not  arrived, 
which  occasioned  your  sending  to  us,  and  as  we 
have  still  too  little  at  Philadelphia,  I  thought  it  best 
to  stop  that  powder,  and  send  it  back  again,  and 
wrote  accordingly  to  the  wagoner  by  a  person  just 
setting  out  for  Trenton.  I  write  this,  therefore,  that 
you  may  not  expect  it  at  New  York  in  consequence 
of  our  letter.  With  great  respect  and  esteem,  I  am, 
etc.,  B.  Franklin. 

'  Chairman  of  the  Committee  of  Safety  in  New  York.  Dr.  Franklin 
was  chairman  of  a  similar  committee  in  Philadelphia.  When  this  letter 
was  written,  he  was  on  a  visit  to  his  son ,  the  governor  of  New  Jersey, 
who  then  resided  at  Perth  Amboy. 


i77sl  Benjamin  Franklin  85 

DCV 

TO   JOSEPH    PRIESTLEY 

Philadelphia,  3  October,  1775. 

Dear  Sir: — I  am  to  set  out  to-morrow  for  the 
camp,  and,  having  just  heard  of  this  opportunity, 
can  only  write  a  Hne  to  say  that  I  am  well  and 
hearty.'  Tell  our  dear  good  friend,  Dr.  Price,  who 
sometimes  has  his  doubts  and  despondencies  about 
our  firmness,  that  America  is  determined  and  unani- 
mous; a  very  few  Tories  and  placemen  excepted, 
who  will  probably  soon  export  themselves.  Britain, 
at  the  expense  of  three  millions,  has  killed  one 
hundred  and  fifty  Yankees  this  campaign,  which  is 
twenty  thousand  pounds  a  head;  and  at  Bunker's 
Hill  she  gained  a  mile  of  ground,  half  of  which  she 
lost  again  by  our  taking  post  on  Ploughed  Hill. 
During  the  same  time  sixty  thousand  children  have 
been  born  in  America.  From  these  data  his  mathe- 
matical head  will  easily  calculate  the  time  and  ex- 
pense necessary  to  kill  us  all,  and  conquer  our  whole 

territory.     My  sincere  respects  to  ,   and  to 

the  club  of  honest  Whigs  at .     Adieu.     I  am 

ever  yours  most  affectionately, 

B.  Franklin. 

^  On  the  30th  of  September,  Congress  appointed  Dr.  Franklin,  Mr. 
Lynch,  and  Mr.  Harrison,  as  a  committee  to  confer  with  General  Wash- 
ington, concerning  the  best  mode  of  supporting  and  regulating  the 
Continental  army.  The  committee  proceeded  to  the  camp  at  Cam- 
bridge, and  the  conference  was  held  on  the  i8th  of  October.  See 
Washington's  Writings,  Vol.  III.,  p.  123. 


86  The  Works  of  [1775 

DCVI 

TO    A    FRIEND    IN    ENGLAND  * 

Philadelphia,  3  October,  1775. 

Dear  Sir: — I  wish  as  ardently  as  you  can  do 
for  peace,  and  shoiild  rejoice  exceedingly  in  co- 
operating with  you  to  that  end.  But  every  ship 
from  Britain  brings  some  intelligence  of  new  meas- 
ures that  tend  more  and  more  to  exasperate ;  and  it 
seems  to  me  that  until  you  have  found  by  dear  ex- 
perience the  reducing  us  by  force  impracticable,  you 
will  think  of  nothing  fair  and  reasonable. 

We  have  as  yet  resolved  only  on  defensive  meas- 
ures. If  you  would  recall  yotir  forces  and  stay  at 
home,  we  should  meditate  nothing  to  injure  you. 
A  little  time  so  given  for  cooling  on  both  sides  would 
have  excellent  effects.  But  you  will  goad  and  pro- 
voke us.  You  despise  us  too  much;  and  you  are 
insensible  of  the  Italian  adage,  that  there  is  no  little 
enemy.  I  am  persuaded  that  the  body  of  the  British 
people  are  our  friends;  but  they  are  changeable,  and 
by  your  lying  gazettes  may  soon  be  made  our  ene- 
mies. Our  respect  for  them  will  proportionably  di- 
minish, and  I  see  clearly  we  are  on  the  high  road  to 
mutual  enmity,  hatred  and  detestation.  A  separa- 
tion of  course  will  be  inevitable.  It  is  a  million  of 
pities,  so  fair  a  plan  as  we  have  hitherto  been  engaged 
in  for  increasing  strength  and  empire  with  public 
felicity,  should  be  destroyed  by  the  mangling  hands 

I  This  letter  was  first  printed  in  Mr.  Vaughan's  edition,  but  without 
the  name  of  the  person  to  whom  it  was  written.  Probably  it  was  to 
David  Hartley. 


^775]  Benjamin  Franklin  87 

of  a  few  blundering  ministers.  It  will  not  be  de- 
stroyed; God  will  protect  and  prosper  it;  you  will 
only  exclude  yourselves  from  any  share  in  it.  We 
hear  that  more  ships  and  troops  are  coming  out. 
We  know  that  you  may  do  us  a  great  deal  of  mis- 
chief, and  are  determined  to  bear  it  patiently  as 
long  as  we  can.  But  if  you  flatter  yourselves  with 
beating  us  into  submission,  you  know  neither  the 
people  nor  the  country.  The  Congress  is  still  sitting, 
and  will  wait  the  result  of  their  last  petition. 

Yours,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 

DCVII 

TO    CHARLES    W.    F.    DUMAS  ' 

Philadelphia,  9  December,  1775. 

Dear  Sir:— I  received  your  several  favors,  of 
May  1 8th,  June  30th,  and  July  8th,  by  Messrs.  Vail- 
lant  and  Pochard;  whom  if  I  could  serve  upon  your 

-  Charles  William  Frederick  Dumas  was  a  native  of  Switzerland  but 
he  passed  much  of  his  Hfe  in  Holland.  He  edited  an  edition  of  Vattel 
/;.  w,  "^^^  ^'"^  ""^  Holland,  and  formed  so  favorable  an  opinion 
of  his  ability  and  character,  that  he  recommended  him  to  the  Committee 
of  Secret  Correspondence,  as  a  suitable  person  to  be  employed  in  their 
service,  and  was  accepted.  When  Mr.  John  Adams  was  minister  from 
the  Lnited  States  m  Holland,  Mr.  Dumas  performed  the  office  of  secre- 
tary and  translator;  and,  after  Mr.  Adams'  departure,  he  acted  for 
some  time  m  the  capacity  of  Charge  d' Affaires,  and  exchanged  with  the 
Ad^ms    ^^^^"^^"^^  ^^^  ratification  of  the  treaty  negotiated  by  Mr. 

The  Committee  of  Secret  Correspondence  was  appointed  by  Congress 
on  the  29th  of  November,  1775.  for  the  purpose  of  corresponding  with 
persons  ^Europe  who  were  supposed  to  be  friends  to  the  American 
cause.  The  above  letter  was  written  by  Dr.  Franklin  as  a  member  of 
that  committee  On  the  17th  of  April,  1777,  the  style  of  the  committee 
was  changed  to  that  of  the  Committee  of  Foreign  Affairs. 


88  The  Works  of  [1775 

recommendation,  it  would  give  me  great  pleasure. 
Their  total  want  of  English  is  at  present  an  ob- 
struction to  their  getting  any  employment  among  us; 
but  I  hope  they  will  soon  obtain  some  knowledge  of 
it.  This  is  a  good  country  for  artificers  or  farmers; 
but  gentlemen  of  mere  science  in  les  belles  lettres  can- 
not so  easily  subsist  here,  there  being  little  demand 
for  their  assistance  among  an  industrious  people,  who, 
as  yet,  have  not  much  leisure  for  studies  of  that  kind. 
I  am  much  obliged  by  the  kind  present  you  have 
made  us  of  your  edition  of  Vattel.  It  came  to  us  in 
good  season,  when  the  circumstances  of  a  rising  state 
make  it  necessary  frequently  to  consult  the  law  of 
nations.  Accordingly,  that  copy,  which  I  kept 
(after  depositing  one  in  our  own  public  library  here, 
and  sending  the  other  to  the  College  of  Massachu- 
setts Bay,  as  you  directed)  has  been  continually  in 
the  hands  of  the  members  of  our  Congress,  now  sit- 
ting, who  are  much  pleased  with  your  notes  and 
preface,  and  have  entertained  a  high  and  just  esteem 
for  their  author.  Your  manuscript,  "Idee  sur  le 
Gouvernement  et  la  Royaute,"  is  also  well  relished, 
and  may,  in  time,  have  its  effect.  I  thank  you, 
likewise,  for  the  other  smaller  pieces  which  accom- 
panied Vattel.  "  Le  court  expose  de  ce  qui  s'est  pass^ 
entre  la  Cour  britannique  et  les  Colonies,"  etc.,  being 
a  ver>^  concise  and  clear  statement  of  facts,  will  be 
reprinted  here  for  the  use  of  our  new  friends  in 
Canada.  The  translations  of  the  proceedings  of 
our  Congress  are  very  acceptable.  I  send  you  here- 
with what  of  them  has  been  further  published  here, 
together  with  a  few  newspapers,  containing  accounts 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  89 

of  some  of  the  successes  Providence  has  favored  us 
with.  We  are  threatened  from  England  with  a  very 
powerful  force,  to  come  next  year  against  us.  We 
are  making  all  the  provision  in  our  power  here  to 
oppose  that  force,  and  we  hope  we  shall  be  able  to 
defend  ourselves.  But,  as  the  events  of  war  are 
always  uncertain,  possibly,  after  another  campaign, 
we  may  find  it  necessary  to  ask  the  aid  of  some  for- 
eign power. 

It  gives  us  great  pleasure  to  learn  from  you  that 
toute  V Europe  nous  souhaite  le  plus  heureux  sneers 
pour  la  maintien  de  nos  liberies.  But  we  wish  to 
know  whether  any  one  of  them,  from  principles  of 
humanity,  is  disposed  magnanimously  to  step  in  for 
the  relief  of  an  oppressed  people;  or  whether  if,  as 
it  seems  likely  to  happen,  we  should  be  obliged  to 
break  off  all  connection  with  Britain,  and  declare 
ourselves  an  independent  people,  there  is  any  state 
or  power  in  Europe  who  would  be  willing  to  enter 
into  an  alliance  with  us  for  the  benefit  of  our  com- 
merce, which  amounted  before  the  war  to  near 
seven  millions  sterling  per  annum,  and  must  con- 
tinually increase,  as  our  people  increase  most  rapidly. 
Confiding,  my  dear  friend,  in  your  good-will  to  us 
and  our  cause,  and  in  your  sagacity  and  abilities  for 
business,  the  committee  of  Congress,  appointed  for 
the  purpose  of  establishing  and  conducting  a  cor- 
respondence with  our  friends  in  Europe,  of  which 
committee  I  have  the  honor  to  be  a  member,  have 
directed  me  to  request  of  you  that,  as  you  are  situ- 
ated at  the  Hague,  where  ambassadors  from  all  the 
courts  reside,  you  would  make  use  of  the  opportunity 


90  The  Works  of  [1775 

that  situation  affords  you  of  discovering,  if  possible, 
the  disposition  of  the  several  courts  with  respect  to 
such  assistance  or  alliance,  if  we  should  apply  for  the 
one  or  propose  the  other.  As  it  may  possibly  be 
necessary,  in  particular  instances,  that  you  should, 
for  this  purpose,  confer  directly  with  some  great 
ministers,  and  show  them  this  letter  as  your  creden- 
tial, we  only  recommend  it  to  your  discretion,  that 
you  proceed  therein  with  such  caution  as  to  keep  the 
same  from  the  knowledge  of  the  English  ambassador, 
and  prevent  any  public  appearance,  at  present,  of 
your  being  employed  in  any  such  business,  as  there- 
by, we  imagine,  many  inconveniences  may  be  avoided, 
and  your  means  of  rendering  us  service  increased. 

That  you  may  be  better  able  to  answer  some 
questions,  which  will  probably  be  put  to  you,  con- 
cerning our  present  situation,  we  inform  you  that 
the  whole  continent  is  very  firmly  united,  the  party 
for  the  measures  of  the  British  ministry  being  very 
small  and  much  dispersed ;  that  we  have  had  on  foot, 
the  last  campaign,  an  army  of  near  twenty-five 
thousand  men,  wherewith  we  have  been  able,  not 
only  to  block  up  the  king's  army  in  Boston,  but  to 
spare  considerable  detachments  for  the  invasion  of 
Canada,  where  we  have  met  with  great  success,  as 
the  printed  papers  sent  herewith  will  inform  you,  and 
have  now  reason  to  expect  the  whole  province  may 
be  soon  in  our  possession;  that  we  purpose  greatly 
to  increase  our  force  for  the  ensuing  year,  and  thereby 
we  hope,  with  the  assistance  of  a  well  disciplined 
militia,  to  be  able  to  defend  our  coast,  notwithstand- 
ing its  great  extent;    that  we  have  already  a  small 


^775]  Benjamin  Franklin  91 

squadron  of  armed  vessels  to  protect  our  coasting 
trade,  who  have  had  some  success  in  taking  several 
of  the  enemy's  cruisers,  and  some  of  their  transport 
vessels  and  store-ships.  This  little  naval  force  we 
are  about  to  augment,  and  expect  it  may  be  more 
considerable  in  the  next  summer. 

We  have  hitherto  applied  to  no  foreign  power. 
We  are  using  the  utmost  industry  in  endeavoring  to 
make  saltpetre,  and  with  daily  increasing  success. 
Our  artificers  are  also  everywhere  busy  in  fabricating 
small-arms,  casting  cannon,  etc. ;  yet  both  arms  and 
ammunition  are  much  wanted.  Any  merchants,  who 
would  venture  to  send  ships  laden  with  those  articles, 
might  make  great  profit ;  such  is  the  demand  in  ever^ 
colony,  and  such  generous  prices  are  and  will  be 
given;  of  which,  and  of  the  manner  of  conducting 
such  a  voyage,  the  bearer,  Mr.  Story,  can  more  fully 
mform  you;  and  whoever  brings  in  those  articles  is 
allowed  to  carry  off  the  value  in  provisions,  to  our 
West  Indies,  where  they  will  probably  fetch  a  very 
high  price,  the  general  exportation  from  North 
America  being  stopped.  This  you  will  see  more  par- 
ticulariy  in  a  printed  resolution  of  the  Congress. 

We  are  in  great  want  of  good  engineers,  and  wish 
you  could  engage  and  send  us  two  able  ones,  in  time 
for  the  next  campaign,  one  acquainted  with  field  ser- 
vice, sieges,  etc.,  and  the  other  with  fortifying  of  sea- 
ports. They  will,  if  well  recommended,  be  made  very 
welcome,  and  have  honorable  appointments,  besides 
the  expenses  of  their  voyage  hither,  in  which  Mr. 
Story  can  also  advise  them.  As  what  we  now  re- 
quest of  you,  besides  taking  up  your  time,  may  put 


92  The  Works  of  [1775 

you  to  some  expense,  we  send  you  for  the  present, 
enclosed,  a  bill  for  one  hundred  pounds  sterling,  to 
defray  such  expenses,  and  desire  you  to  be  assured 
that  your  services  will  be  considered  and  honorably 
rewarded  by  the  Congress. 

We  desire  also  that  you  would  take  the  trouble 
of  receiving  from  Arthur  Lee,  agent  for  the  Con- 
gress in  England,  such  letters  as  may  be  sent  by 
him  to  your  care,  and  of  forwarding  them  to  us  with 
your  despatches.  When  you  have  occasion  to  write 
to  him  to  inform  him  of  any  thing,  which  it  may  be 
of  importance  that  our  friends  there  should  be  ac- 
quainted with,  please  to  send  your  letters  to  him,  un- 
der cover,  directed  to  Mr.  Alderman  Lee,  merchant, 
on  Tower  Hill,  London;  and  do  not  send  it  by  post, 
but  by  some  trusty  shipper,  or  other  prudent  per- 
son, who  will  deliver  it  with  his  own  hand.  And 
when  you  send  to  us,  if  you  have  not  a  direct  safe 
opportunity,  we  recommend  sending  by  way  of  St. 
Eustatia,  to  the  care  of  Messrs.  Robert  and  Cornelius 
Stevenson,  merchants  there,  who  will  forward  your 
despatches  to  me.  With  sincere  and  great  esteem 
and  respect,  I  am,  sir,  etc.,  B.  Franklin. 


DCVIII 


TO    HIS    MOST    SERENE    HIGHNESS,    DON    GABRIEL    OF 
BOURBON 

Philadelphia,  12  December,  1775. 

Illustrious     Prince: — I     have    just    received, 
through  the  hands  of  the  ambassador  of  Spain,  the 


17751  Benjamin  Franklin  93 

much  esteemed  present  your  Most  Serene  Highness 
hath  so  kindly  sent  me,  of  your  excellent  version  of 
Sallust.^ 

I  am  extremely  sensible  of  the  honor  done  me, 
and  beg  you  would  accept  my  thankful  acknowledg- 
ments. I  wish  I  could  send  hence  any  American 
literary  production  worthy  of  your  perusal;  but  as 
yet  the  Muses  have  scarcely  visited  these  remote  re- 
gions. Perhaps,  however,  the  proceedings  of  our 
American  Congress,  just  published,  may  be  a  subject 
of  some  curiosity  at  your  court.  I  therefore  take 
the  liberty  of  sending  your  Highness  a  copy,  with 
some  other  papers,  which  contain  accounts  of  the 
successes  wherewith  Providence  has  lately  favored  us. 
Therein  your  wise  politicians  may  contemplate  the 
first  efforts  of  a  rising  state,  which  seems  likely  soon 
to  act  a  part  of  some  importance  on  the  stage  of  hu- 
man affairs,  and  furnish  materials  for  a  future  Sallust. 
I  am  very  old,  and  can  scarce  hope  to  see  the  event 
of  this  great  contest;  but,  looking  forward,  I  think 
I  see  a  powerful  dominion  growing  up  here,  whose 
interest  it  will  be  to  form  a  close  and  firm  alliance 
with  Spain  (their  territories  bordering),  and  who, 
being  united,  will  be  able,  not  only  to  preserve  their 
own  people  in  peace,  but  to  repel  the  force  of  all  the 
other  powers  in  Europe.  It  seems,  therefore,  pru- 
dent on  both  sides  to  cultivate  a  good  understanding, 
that  may  hereafter  be  so  useful  to  both;    towards 

'  The  famous  Latin  and  Spanish  edition  of  Sallust,  printed  in  1772, 
by  Ibarra,  at  the  Royal  Press  in  Madrid.  This  edition,  which  is  an 
imperial  quarto,  is  considered  by  bibliographers  as  a  masterpiece  of 
typography.  Dibden  remarks  that  it  "is  very  rare,  as  the  Prince, 
Don  Gabriel,  reserved  all  the  copies  for  presents." 


94  The  Works  of  [1775 

which  a  fair  foundation  is  already  laid  in  our  minds, 
by  the  well  founded  popular  opinion  entertained  here 
of  Spanish  integrity  and  honor.  I  hope  my  pre- 
sumption in  hinting  this  will  be  pardoned.  If  in  any 
thing  on  this  side  of  the  globe  I  can  render  either 
service  or  pleasure  to  your  Royal  Highness,  your 
commands  will  make  me  happy.  With  the  utmost 
esteem  and  veneration,  I  have  the  honor  to  be  your 
Serene  Highness'  most  obedient  and  most  humble 
servant.  B.  Franklin. 


DCIX 


ARTICLES  OF  CONFEDERATION  AND  PERPETUAL  UNION, 
PROPOSED    IN    GENERAL    CONGRESS  ^ 

ARTICLE    I 

The  name  of  this  Confederacy  shall  henceforth  be 
The  United  Colonies  of  North  America. 

I  The  following  articles  exhibit  the  first  sketch  of  a  plan  of  confedera- 
tion, which  is  known  to  have  been  presented  to  Congress.  They  seem 
to  have  been  proposed  by  Dr.  Franklin  in  his  individual  capacity,  and 
not  as  a  member  of  any  committee.  They  were  brought  forward  on 
the  2ist  of  July,  1775.  What  proceedings  were  had  in  relation  to  them 
cannot  be  ascertained  from  the  journals;  but  it  is  probable,  that, 
after  some  debate,  they  were  referred  to  a  committee.  It  is  worthy 
of  remark  that,  although  they  are  dated  nearly  a  year  before  the 
Declaration  of  Independence,  they  could  hardly  be  made  practical,  with- 
out assuming  the  existence  of  an  independent  government.  The  sub- 
ject of  a  confederation  was  discussed  from  time  to  time;  but  the  plan 
finally  acceded  to  by  the  States  was  not  adopted  by  Congress  till  No- 
vember 15,  1777.  This  ultimate  plan  differed  in  many  essential  points 
from  Dr.  Franklin's  draft,  and  was  more  extensive.  It  was  not  ratified 
by  a  sufficient  number  of  States  to  carry  it  into  effect  till  July  9,  1778, 
nor  by  all  the  States  till  March  i,  1781. — Editor. 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  95 

ARTICLE    II 

The  said  United  Colonies  hereby  severally  enter 
into  a  firm  league  of  friendship  with  each  other,  bind- 
ing on  themselves  and  their  posterity,  for  their  com- 
mon defence  against  their  enemies;  for  the  security 
of  their  liberties  and  properties;  the  safety  of  their 
persons  and  families,  and  their  mutual  and  general 
welfare. 

ARTICLE    III 

That  each  colony  shall  enjoy  and  retain  as  much 
as  it  may  think  fit  of  its  own  present  laws,  customs, 
rights,  privileges,  and  peculiar  jurisdictions  within  its 
own  limits:  and  may  amend  its  own  constitution,  as 
shall  seem  best  to  its  own  Assembly  or  Convention. 

ARTICLE    IV 

That,  for  the  more  convenient  management  of  gen- 
eral interests,  delegates  shall  be  annually  elected  in 
each  colony,  to  meet  in  general  Congress  at  such 
time  and  place  as  shall  be  agreed  on  in  the  next 
preceding  Congress.  Only  where  particular  circum- 
stances do  not  make  a  deviation  necessary,  it  is  under- 
stood to  be  a  rule  that  each  succeeding  Congress  be 
held  in  a  different  colony,  till  the  whole  number  be 
gone  through;  and  so  in  perpetual  rotation;  and 
that  accordingly  the  next  Congress  after  the  present 
shall  be  held  at  Annapolis,  in  Maryland. 

ARTICLE   v 

That  the  power  and  duty  of  the  Congress  shall 
extend  to  the  determining  on  war  and  peace;    the 


96  The  Works  of  [1775 

entering  into  alliances  and  sending  and  receiving 
ambassadors  (the  reconciliation  with  Great  Britain) ; 
the  settling  all  disputes  and  differences  between  col- 
ony and  colony,  about  limits  or  any  other  cause,  if 
such  should  arise;  and  the  planting  of  new  colonies 
when  proper.  The  Congress  shall  also  make  such 
general  ordinances  as,  though  necessary  to  the  gen- 
eral welfare,  particular  Assemblies  cannot  be  com- 
petent to,  viz. :  those  that  may  relate  to  our  general 
commerce  or  general  currency,  to  the  establishment 
of  posts,  and  the  regulation  of  our  common  forces. 
The  Congress  shall  also  have  the  appointment  of  all 
general  officers,  civil  and  military,  appertaining  to 
the  general  Confederacy,  such  as  general  treasurer, 
secretary,  etc. 

ARTICLE    VI 

All  charges  of  wars,  and  all  other  general  expenses 
to  be  incurred  for  the  common  welfare,  shall  be  de- 
frayed out  of  the  common  treasury,  which  is  to  be  sup- 
plied by  each  colony  in  proportion  to  its  number  of 
male  polls  between  sixteen  and  sixty  years  of  age. 
The  taxes  for  paying  that  proportion  are  to  be  laid 
and  levied  by  the  laws  of  each  colony. 

ARTICLE    VII 

The  number  of  delegates  to  be  elected  and  sent  to 
the  Congress  by  each  colony  shall  be  regulated,  from 
time  to  time,  by  the  number  of  such  polls  returned; 
so  as  that  one  delegate  be  allowed  for  every  five 
thousand  polls.  And  the  delegates  are  to  bring  with 
them  to  every  Congress  an  authenticated  return  of 


T775]  Benjamin  Franklin  97 

the  number  of  polls  in  their  respective  provinces, 
which  is  to  be  triennially  taken,  for  the  purposes 
above  mentioned. 

ARTICLE    VIII 

At  every  meeting  of  the  Congress,  one  half  of  the 
members  returned,  exclusive  of  proxies,  shall  be 
necessary  to  make  a  quorum;  and  each  delegate  at 
the  Congress  shall  have  a  vote  in  all  cases,  and,  if 
necessarily  absent,  shall  be  allowed  to  appoint  any 
other  delegate  from  the  same  colony  to  be  his  proxy, 
who  may  vote  for  him. 

ARTICLE    IX 

An  Executive  Council  shall  be  appointed  by  the 
Congress  out  of  their  own  body,  consisting  of  twelve 
persons;  of  whom,  in  the  first  appointment,  one 
third,  viz.  four,  shall  be  for  one  year,  four  for  two 
years,  and  four  for  three  years;  and,  as  the  said 
terms  expire,  the  vacancies  shall  be  filled  by  appoint- 
ments for  three  years,  whereby  one  third  of  the  mem- 
bers will  be  changed  annually.  And  each  person 
who  has  served  the  said  term  of  three  years  as  coun- 
cillor, shall  have  a  respite  of  three  years  before  he 
can  be  elected  again.  This  Council,  of  whom  two 
thirds  shall  be  a  quorum  in  the  recess  of  the  Con- 
gress, is  to  execute  what  shall  have  been  enjoined 
thereby;  to  manage  the  general  Continental  busi- 
ness and  interests;  to  receive  applications  from 
foreign  countries ;  to  prepare  matters  for  the  consid- 
eration of  the  Congress;  to  fill  up,  pro  tempore, 
Continental  offices  that  fall  vacant,  and  to  draw  on 


98  The  Works  of  [1775 

the  general  treasurer  for  such  moneys  as  may  be 
necessary  for  general  services,  and  appropriated  by 
the  Congress  to  such  services. 

ARTICLE    X 

No  colony  shall  engage  in  an  offensive  war  with 
any  nation  of  Indians  without  the  consent  of  the 
Congress,  or  Great  Council  above  mentioned,  who 
are  first  to  consider  the  justice  and  necessity  of  such 
war. 

ARTICLE    XI 

A  perpetual  alliance,  offensive  and  defensive,  is  to 
be  entered  into  as  soon  as  may  be  with  the  Six 
Nations;  their  limits  to  be  ascertained  and  secured 
to  them;  their  land  not  to  be  encroached  on,  nor 
any  private  or  colony  purchases  made  of  them,  here- 
after to  be  held  good;  nor  any  contract  for  lands 
to  be  made,  but  between  the  great  Council  of  the 
Indians  at  Onondaga  and  the  general  Congress. 
The  boundaries  and  lands  of  all  the  other  Indians 
shall  also  be  ascertained  and  secured  to  them  in  the 
same  manner,  and  persons  appointed  to  reside 
among  them  in  proper  districts ;  who  shall  take  care 
to  prevent  injustice  in  the  trade  with  them;  and  be 
enabled  at  our  general  expense,  by  occasional  small 
supplies,  to  relieve  their  personal  wants  and  dis- 
tresses. And  all  purchases  from  them  shall  be  by 
the  Congress,  for  the  general  advantage  and  benefit 
of  the  United  Colonies. 

ARTICLE    XII 

As  all  new  institutions  may  have  imperfections, 
which  only  time  and  experience  can  discover,  it  is 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  99 

agreed  that  the  general  Congress,  from  time  to  time, 
shall  propose  such  amendments  of  this  constitution 
as  may  be  found  necessary ;  which,  being  approved 
by  a  majority  of  the  colony  Assemblies,  shall  be 
equally  binding  with  the  rest  of  the  articles  of  this 
Confederation. 

ARTICLE    XIII 

Any  and  every  colony  from  Great  Britain  upon  the 
continent  of  North  America,  not  at  present  engaged 
in  our  association,  may,  upon  application,  and  joining 
the  said  association,  be  received  into  this  Confedera- 
tion, viz. :  Ireland,  the  West  India  Islands,  Quebec, 
St.  John's,  Nova  Scotia,  Bermudas,  and  the  East  and 
West  Floridas;  and  shall  thereupon  be  entitled  to 
all  the  advantages  of  our  union,  mutual  assistance, 
and  commerce. 

These  articles  shall  be  proposed  to  the  several 
provincial  Conventions  or  Assemblies,  to  be  by  them 
considered;  and,  if  approved,  they  are  advised  to 
empower  their  delegates  to  agree  to  and  ratify  the 
same  in  the  ensuing  Congress.  After  which  the 
union  thereby  established  is  to  continue  firm,  till 
the  terms  of  reconciliation  proposed  in  the  petition 
of  the  last  Congress  to  the  king  are  agreed  to ;  till  the 
acts  since  made,  restraining  the  American  commerce 
and  fisheries,  are  repealed;  till  reparation  is  made 
for  the  injury  done  to  Boston  by  shutting  up  its  port, 
for  the  burning  of  Charlestown,  and  for  the  expense 
of  this  unjust  war;  and  till  all  the  British  troops  are 
withdrawn  from  America.  On  the  arrival  of  these 
events,  the  colonies  will  return  to  their  former  con- 


loo  The  Works  of  [1775 

nection  and  friendship  with  Britain;   but,  on  failure 
thereof,  this  Confederation  is  to  be  perpetual. 


Whereas  '  It  hath  pleased  God  to  bless  these  coun- 
tries with  a  most  plentiful  harvest,   whereby- 
much  com  and  other  provisions  can  be 
spared  to  foreign  nations  who  may  want  the 
same. 
Resolved,  That  [after  the  expiration  of  Six  Months] 
from  (and  ajterY  the  [20th  of  July  Instant,]  {being 
one  full  year  ajterY  [being]  the  Day  appointed  by  a 
late  Act  of  the  Parliament  of  Great  Britain,  for  re- 
straining the  Trade  of  the  Confederate  Colonies,  all 
the  Custom-Houses  [therein]  (if  the  Act  be  not  first 
rescinded)  shall  be  shut  up,  and  all  the  officers  of 
the  same  discharged  from  the  Execution  of  their  sev- 
eral Functions,  and  all  the  Ports  of  the  said  Colonies 

^  The  free-trade  resolutions  which  follow  are  not  given  by  Mr. 
Sparks,  but  are  printed  in  the  Archives  of  New  Jersey,  Vol.  X.,  p.  691. 
They  are  here  printed,  however,  from  the  original  MS.  in  Franklin's 
handwriting,  preserved  at  the  State  Department  in  Washington. 

1  append  an  explanatory  note  from  Mr.  Worthington  Ford,  of  the 
State  Department,  to  whom  I  am  indebted  for  the  verified  copy. 

"Dear  Sir: — As  I  find  some  differences  between  the  articles  as 
printed  in  the  New  Jersey  Archives  (which  you  will  see  are  endorsed  as 
being  more  exact  than  other  printed  copies),  I  have  taken  the  original 
on  the  enclosed  sheets,  giving  the  parts  erased,  and  also  distinguishing 
the  carets  or  interlinear  words  thus  [  ].  The  'free-trade'  resolutions 
were  brought  in  on  the  same  day  as  the  articles,  are  written  on  the 
same  paper,  and  all  in  B.  F.'s  MS.  I  am  quite  sure  they  originally 
formed  a  part  of  the  articles  (although  not  numbered  and  placed  in  a 
different  volume  in  the  records  of  the  Continental  Congress).  They 
were  even  endorsed  'Articles  of  Confederation,'  though  a  pen  was 
afterwards  rtm  through  the  endorsement.     Very  Respectfully, 

"Worthington  C.  Ford — Editor. 

''Oct.  6,  1887." 

2  The  words  in  italics  show  the  erasures  in  the  original  MS. — Editor, 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  loi 

are  hereby  declared  to  be  thenceforth  open  to  the 
Ships  of  every  State  in  Europe  that  will  admit  om 
Commerce  and  protect  it;  who  may  [torn  off]  and 
expose  to  sale  free  of  all  Duties  their  respective 
Produce  and  Manufactures,  and  every  kind  of  Mer- 
chandize, excepting  Teas,  and  the  Merchandize  of 
Great  Britain,  Ireland,  and  the  British  West  India 
Islands. 

Resolved,  That  we  will  to  the  utmost  of  our 
Power,  maintain  and  support  this  Freedom  of  Com- 
merce for  [two]  years  certain  after  its  Commence- 
ment, any  reconciliation  between  us  and  Britain 
notwithstanding;  and  as  much  longer  beyond  that 
Term,  as  the  late  Acts  of  Pariiament  for  restoring 
the  Restraining  the  Commerce  and  fisheries,  and 
altering  the  Laws  and  Charters  of  any  of  the  Col- 
onies, shall  continue  vmrepealed. 

Endorsed— No  2.  {Articles  of  ConfederationY  A 
proposal  for  opening  the  ports  of  N.  A.  bro?  in  by 
committee— read  July  21,  1775 — on  motion  post- 
poned for  future  consideration. 


DCX 

VINDICATION  AND  OFFER  FROM   CONGRESS  TO  PARLIA- 
MENT ' 

Forasmuch  as  the  enemies  of  America  in  the  Par- 
liament of  Great  Britain,  to  render  us  odious  to  the 

1  The  words  in  italics  show  the  erasures  in  the  original  MS.— Editor. 

2  Dr.  Franklin  was  put  on  a  committee  to   report   to   Congress  a 
declaration  to  be  pubhshed  by  General  Washington,  on  his  arrival  in 


I02  The  Works  of  [1775 

nation,  and  give  an  ill  impression  of  us  in  the  minds 
of  other  European  powers,  have  represented  us  as 
unjust  and  ungrateful  in  the  highest  degree;  assert- 
ing, on  every  occasion,  that  the  colonies  were  settled 
at  the  expense  of  Britain;  that  they  were,  at  the  ex- 
pense of  the  same,  protected  in  their  infancy;  that 
they  now  ungratefully  and  unjustly  refuse  to  con- 
tribute to  their  own  protection,  and  the  common 
defence  of  the  nation;  that  they  aim  at  independ- 
ence; that  they  intend  an  abolition  of  the  Naviga- 
tion Acts;  and  that  they  are  fraudulent  in  their 
commercial  dealings,  and  purpose  to  cheat  their 
creditors  in  Britain  by  avoiding  the  payment  of 
their  just  debts ; 

And  as  by  frequent  repetition  these  groimdless 
assertions  and  malicious  calumnies  may,  if  not  con- 
tradicted and  refuted,  obtain  further  credit,  and  be 
injurious  throughout  Europe  to  the  reputation  and 
interest  of  the  confederate  colonies,  it  seems  proper 
and  necessary  to  examine  them  in  our  own  just 
vindication. 

With  regard  to  the  first,  that  the  colonies  were  set- 
tled at  the  expense  of  Britain,  it  is  a  known  fact,  that 
none  of  the  twelve  imited  colonies  were  settled,  or 
even  discovered  at  the  expense  of  England.  Henry 
the  Seventh,  indeed,  granted  a  commission  to  Sebas- 
tian Cabot,  a  Venetian,  and  his  sons,  to  sail  into  the 
western  seas  for  the  discovery  of  new  countries ;  but 
it  was  to  be  ''  suis  eorum  propriis  sumptibus  et  ex- 

camp  at  Cambridge  in  the  stimmer  of  1775.  This  paper  is  doubtless 
one  of  the  fruits  of  the  discussions  in  that  committee.  It  is  in  reply 
to  what  Mr.  Vaughan  calls  "a  severe  act  of  Parliament  which  reached 
the  colonies  about  that  time." 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  103 

pensis,''  at  their  own  costs  and  charges.'  They  dis- 
covered, but  soon  shghted  and  neglected  these 
northern  territories,  which  were,  after  more  than  a 
hundred  years'  dereliction,  purchased  of  the  natives, 
and  settled  at  the  charge  and  by  the  labor  of  private 
men  and  bodies  of  men,  our  ancestors,  who  came 
over  hither  for  that  purpose.  But  our  adversaries 
have  never  been  able  to  produce  any  record  that 
ever  the  Parliament  or  government  of  England  was 
at  the  smallest  expense  on  these  accounts;  on  the 
contrary,  there  exists  on  the  journals  of  Parliament 
a  solemn  declaration  in  1642  (only  twenty-two  years 
after  the  first  settlement  of  the  Massachusetts,  when, 
if  such  expense  had  ever  been  incurred,  some  of  the 
members  must  have  known  and  remembered  it), 
"that  these  colonies  had  been  planted  and  estab- 
lished without  any  expense  to  the  state.''  ^ 

New  York  is  the  only  colony  in  the  founding  of 
which  England  can  pretend  to  have  been  at  any  ex- 
pense; and  that  was  only  the  charge  of  a  small  ar- 
mament to  take  it  from  the  Dutch,  who  planted  it. 
But  to  retain  this  colony  at  the  peace,  another  at  that 
time  full  as  valuable,  planted  by  private  countrymen 
of  ours,  was  given  up  by  the  crown  to  the  Dutch  in 
exchange,  viz.,  Surinam,  now  a  wealthy  sugar  colony 
in  Guiana,  and  which,  but  for  that  cession,  might 

1  See  the  Commission  in  the  Appendix  to  Pownall's  Administration 
of  the  Colonies.     Edition  1775. 

2  "  Veneris,  March  10,  1642. — Whereas,  the  plantations  in  New  Eng- 
land have,  by  the  blessing  of  the  Almighty,  had  good  and  prosperous 
success,  without  any  public  charge  to  this  state,  and  are  now  Hkely  to 
prove  very  happy  for  the  propagation  of  the  Gospel  in  those  parts,  and 
very  beneficial  and  commodious  to  this  kingdom  and  nation;  the 
Commons  now  assembled  in  ParUament,  etc.,  etc.,  etc." 


I04  The  Works  of  [1775 

still  have  remained  in  our  possession.  Of  late,  in- 
deed, Britain  has  been  at  some  expense  in  planting 
two  colonies,  Georgia  and  Nova  Scotia;  but  those 
are  not  in  our  confederacy  ' ;  and  the  expense  she  has 
been  at  in  their  name  has  chiefly  been  in  grants  of 
sums  unnecessarily  large,  by  way  of  salaries  to  of- 
ficers sent  from  England,  and  in  jobs  to  friends, 
whereby  dependants  might  be  provided  for;  those 
excessive  grants  not  being  requisite  to  the  welfare 
and  good  government  of  the  colonies,  which  good 
government  (as  experience  in  many  instances  of 
other  colonies  has  taught  us)  may  be  much  more  fru- 
gally, and  full  as  effectually,  provided  for  and 
supported. 

With  regard  to  the  second  assertion,  that  these 
colonies  were  protected  in  their  infant  state  by  Eng- 
land, it  is  a  notorious  fact  that,  in  none  of  the  many 
wars  with  the  Indian  natives,  sustained  by  our  in- 
fant settlements  for  a  century  after  our  first  arrival, 
were  ever  any  troops  or  forces  of  any  kind  sent  from 
England  to  assist  us ;  nor  were  any  forts  built  at  her 
expense,  to  secure  our  seaports  from  foreign  invaders ; 
nor  any  ships  of  war  sent  to  protect  our  trade  till 
many  years  after  our  first  settlement,  when  our  com- 
merce became  an  object  of  revenue,  or  of  advantage 
to  British  merchants ;  and  then  it  was  thought  neces- 
sary to  have  a  frigate  in  some  of  our  ports,  during 
peace,  to  give  weight  to  the  authority  of  custom- 
house officers,  who  were  to  restrain  that  commerce 

I  Georgia  joined  the  other  colonies  soon  afterwards.  On  the  20th  of 
July,  1775,  a  letter  was  i-ead  in  Congress  from  the  convention  of  Geor- 
gia, giving  notice  that  delegates  had  been  appointed  in  that  colony  to 
attend  the  Continental  Congress. — Editor. 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  105 

for  the  benefit  of  England.  Our  own  arms,  with  our 
poverty,  and  the  care  of  a  kind  Providence,  were  all 
this  time  our  only  protection;  while  we  were  neg- 
lected by  the  English  government;  which  either 
thought  us  not  worth  its  care,  or  having  no  good- 
will to  some  of  us,  on  accoimt  of  our  different  senti- 
ments in  religion  and  politics,  was  indifferent  what 
became  of  us. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  colonies  have  not  been 
wanting  to  do  what  they  could  in  every  war  for  an- 
noying the  enemies  of  Britain.  They  formerly  as- 
sisted her  in  the  conquest  of  Nova  Scotia.  In  the 
war  before  last,  they  took  Louisburg,  and  put  it 
into  her  hands.  She  made  her  peace  with  that 
strong  fortress  restoring  it  to  France,  greatly  to 
their  detriment.  In  the  last  war,  it  is  true,  Britain 
sent  a  fleet  and  army,  which  acted  with  an  equal 
army  of  ours,  in  the  reduction  of  Canada;  and 
perhaps  thereby  did  more  for  us  than  we  in  the  pre- 
ceding wars  had  done  for  her.  Let  it  be  remem- 
bered, however,  that  she  rejected  the  plan  we 
formed  in  the  Congress  at  Albany,  in  1754,  for  our 
own  defence,  by  a  union  of  the  colonies;  a  union 
she  was  jealous  of,  and  therefore  chose  to  send  her 
own  forces ;  otherwise  her  aid  to  protect  us  was  not 
wanted.  And  from  our  first  settlement  to  that 
time,  her  military  operations  in  our  favor  were  small, 
compared  with  the  advantages  she  drew  from  her  ex- 
clusive commerce  with  us.  We  are,  however,  willing 
to  give  full  weight  to  this  obligation ;  and  as  we  are 
daily  growing  stronger,  and  our  assistance  to  her  be- 
comes of  more  importance,  we  should  with  pleasure 


io6  The  Works  of  [1775 

embrace  the  first  opportunity  of  showing  our  grati- 
tude by  returning  the  favor  in  kind. 

But,  when  Britain  values  herself  as  affording  us 
protection,  we  desire  it  may  be  considered,  that  we 
have  followed  her  in  all  her  wars,  and  joined  with  her 
at  our  own  expense  against  all  she  thought  fit  to 
quarrel  with.  This  she  has  required  of  us;  and 
would  never  permit  us  to  keep  peace  with  any  power 
she  declared  her  enemy ;  though  by  separate  treaties 
we  might  well  have  done  it.  Under  such  circum- 
stances, when  at  her  instance  we  made  nations  our 
enemies,  whom  we  might  otherwise  have  retained 
our  friends,  we  submit  it  to  the  common-sense  of  man- 
kind, whether  her  protection  of  us  in  these  wars  was 
not  our  JMst  due,  and  to  be  claimed  of  right,  instead 
of  being  received  as  a  favor?  And  whether,  when  all 
parts  of  an  empire  exert  themselves  to  the  utmost  in 
their  common  defence,  and  in  annoying  the  common 
enemy,  it  is  not  as  well  the  parts  that  protect  the 
whole,  as  the  whole  that  protects  the  parts?  The 
protection  then  has  been  proportionably  mutual. 
And  whenever  the  time  shall  come,  that  our  abilities 
may  as  far  exceed  hers,  as  hers  have  exceeded  ours, 
we  hope  we  shall  be  reasonable  enough  to  rest  satis- 
fied with  her  proportionable  exertions,  and  not  think 
we  do  too  much  for  a  part  of  the  empire,  when  that 
part  does  as  much  as  it  can  for  the  whole. 

The  charge  against  us,  that  we  refuse  to  contribute 
to  our  own  protection,  appears  from  the  above  to  be 
groundless ;  but  we  further  declare  it  to  be  absolutely 
false ;  for  it  is  well  known  that  we  ever  held  it  as  our 
duty  to  grant  aids  to  the  crown,  upon  requisition, 


17751  Benjamin  Franklin  107 

towards  carrying  on  its  wars;  which  duty  we  have 
cheerfiilly  complied  with  to  the  utmost  of  our  abil- 
ities ;  insomuch  that  frequent  and  grateful  acknowl- 
edgments thereof,  by  king  and  Parliament,  appear  on 
the  records.'  But  as  Britain  has  enjoyed  a  most 
gainful  monopoly  of  our  commerce,  the  same,  with 
our  maintaining  the  dignity  of  the  king's  representa- 
tive in  each  colony,  and  all  our  own  separate  estab- 
lishments of  government,  civil  and  military,  has  ever 
hitherto  been  deemed  an  equivalent  for  such  aids  as 
might  otherwise  be  expected  from  us  in  time  of 
peace.  And  we  hereby  declare  that  on  a  reconcilia- 
tion with  Britain  we  shall  not  only  continue  to  grant 
aids  in  time  of  war  as  aforesaid,  but  whenever  she 
shall  think  fit  to  abolish  her  monopoly,  and  give  us 
the  same  privileges  of  trade  as  Scotland  received  at 
the  union,  and  allow  us  a  free  commerce  with  all  the 
rest  of  the  world,  we  shall  willingly  agree  (and  we 
doubt  not  it  will  be  ratified  by  our  constituents)  to 
give  and  pay  into  the  sinking  fund  [one  hundred 
thousand  pounds]  sterling  per  annum  for  the  term  of 
one  hundred  years;  which  duly,  faithfully,  and  in- 
violably applied  for  that  purpose,  is  demonstrably 
more  than  sufficient  to  extinguish  all  her  present 
national  debt;  since  it  will  in  that  time  amount,  at 
legal  British  interest,  to  more  than  [two  hundred  and 
thirty  millions  of  pounds.^] 

1  Supposed  to  allude  to  certain  passages  in  the  journals  of  the  House 
of  Commons  on  the  4th  of  April,  1748;  28th  of  January,  1756;  3d  of 
February,  1756;  16  and  19  of  May,  1757;  ist  of  June,  1758;  26th  and 
30th  of  April,  1759;  26th  and  31st  of  March,  and  28th  of  April,  1760; 
9th  and  20th  of  January,  1761;  22d  and  26th  of  January,  1762;  and 
14th  and  17th  of  March,  1763. — B.  V. 

2  See  Dr.  Price's  Appeal  on  the  National  Debt. — B.  V. 


io8  The  Works  of  [1775 

But  if  Britain  does  not  think  fit  to  accept  this 
proposition,  we,  in  order  to  remove  her  groundless 
jealousies,  that  we  aim  at  independence,  and  an  aboli- 
tion of  the  Navigation  Act  (which  hath  in  truth  never 
been  our  intention),  and  to  avoid  all  future  disputes 
about  the  right  of  making  that  and  other  acts  for 
regulating  our  commerce,  do  hereby  declare  our- 
selves ready  and  willing  to  enter  into  a  covenant  with 
Britain,  that  she  shall  fully  possess,  enjoy,  and  exer- 
cise that  right  for  a  hundred  years  to  come,  the  same 
being  bona  fide  used  for  the  common  benefit ;  and,  in 
case  of  such  agreement,  that  every  Assembly  be  ad- 
vised by  us  to  confirm  it  solemnly  by  laws  of  their 
own,  which,  once  made,  cannot  be  repealed  without 
the  assent  of  the  crown. 

The  last  charge,  that  we  are  dishonest  traders,  and 
aim  at  defrauding  our  creditors  in  Britain,  is  suffi- 
ciently and  authentically  refuted  by  the  solemn  de- 
clarations of  the  British  merchants  to  Parliament 
(both  at  the  time  of  the  Stamp  Act  and  in  the  last 
session),  who  bore  ample  testimony  to  the  general 
good  faith  and  fair  dealing  of  the  Americans,  and  de- 
clared their  confidence  in  our  integrity,  for  which  we 
refer  to  their  petitions  on  the  journals  of  the  House 
of  Commons.  And  we  presume  we  may  safely  call 
on  the  body  of  the  British  tradesmen,  who  have  had 
experience  of  both,  to  say  whether  they  have  not 
received  much  more  ptinctual  payment  from  us,  than 
they  generally  have  from  the  members  of  their  own 
two  Houses  of  Parliament. 

On  the  whole  of  the  above  it  appears  that  the 
charge  of  ingratitude  towards  the  mother  coimtry, 


1775]  Benjamin  Franklin  109 

brought  with  so  much  confidence  against  the  col- 
onies, is  totally  without  foundation;  and  that  there 
is  much  more  reason  for  retorting  that  charge  on 
Britain,  who,  not  only  never  contributes  any  aid,  nor 
affords,  by  an  exclusive  commerce,  any  advantages  to 
Saxony,  her  mother  country,  but,  no  longer  since 
than  in  the  last  war,  without  the  least  provocation, 
subsidized  the  king  of  Prussia  while  he  ravaged  that 
mother  country  and  carried  fire  and  sword  into  its 
capital,  the  fine  city  of  Dresden'  An  example  we 
hope  no  provocation  will  induce  us  to  imitate. 


DCXI 


THE  BRITISH  NATION,   AS  IT  APPEARED  TO  THE  COLO- 
NISTS   IN    1775  ^ 

"  Whereas,  The  British  nation,  through  great  cor- 
ruption of  manners  and  extreme  dissipation  and 
profusion,  both  private  and  public,  have  foimd  all 
honest  resources  insufficient  to  supply  their  exces- 
sive luxury  and  prodigality,  and  thereby  have  been 
driven  to  the  practice  of  every  injustice  which 
avarice  could  dictate  or  rapacity  execute;  And 
whereas,  not  satisfied  with  the  immense  plimder  of 
the  East,  obtained  by  sacrificing  millions  of  the 
human  species,  they  have  lately  turned  their  eyes 
to  the  West,  and  grudging  us  the  peaceable  enjoy- 
ment of  the  fruits  of  our  hard  labor  and  virtuous 
industry,  have  for  years  past  been  endeavoring  to 

'  The  draft  resolution  was  found  among  Dr.  Franklin's  papers.  If 
prepared  with  the  intent  to  have  it  adopted  by  Congress,  which  is  im- 
probable, the  author  changed  his  mind,  for  it  was  never  offered. 


iio  The  Works  of  [1776 

extort  the  same  from  us  under  color  of  laws  regu- 
lating trade,  and  have  thereby  actually  succeeded  in 
draining  us  of  large  sums  to  our  great  loss  and  detri- 
ment; And  whereas,  impatient  to  seize  the  whole, 
they  have  at  length  proceeded  to  open  robbery, 
declaring,  by  a  solemn  act  of  Parliament,  that  all 
our  estates  are  theirs,  and  all  our  property  found 
upon  the  sea  divisible  among  such  of  their  armed 
plunderers  as  shall  take  the  same;  and  have  even 
dared  in  the  same  act,  to  declare  that  all  the  spoil- 
ings,  thefts,  burnings  of  houses  and  towns,  and  mur- 
ders of  innocent  people,  perpetrated  by  their  wicked 
and  inhuman  corsairs  on  our  coasts,  previous  to  any 
war  declared  against  us,  were  just  actions,  and  shall 
be  so  deemed,  contrary  to  several  commandments  of 
God  (which  by  this  act  they  presume  to  repeal),  and 
to  all  the  principles  of  right  and  all  the  ideas  of 
justice  entertained  heretofore  by  every  other  nation, 
savage  as  well  as  civilized ;  thereby  manifesting  them- 
selves to  be  hostes  humani  generis;  And  whereas,  as 
it  is  not  possible  for  the  people  of  America  to  subsist 
under  such  continual  ravages  without  making  some 
reprisals;  Therefore,  Resolved,  etc." 


DCXII 

TO    CHARLES    LEE  ^ 

Philadelphia,  h  February,  1776. 

Dear  Sir: — The  bearer,  M.  Arundel,  is  directed 
by  the  Congress  to  repair  to  General  Schuyler,  in 

^  General  Charles  Lee  was  at  this  time  in  the  command  of  New  York, 
and  was  engaged  in  constructing  works  of  defence. 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  m 

order  to  be  employed  by  him  in  the  artillery  service. 
He  proposes  to  wait  on  you  upon  his  way,  and  has 
requested  me  to  introduce  him  by  a  line  to  you.  He 
has  been  an  officer  in  the  French  service,  as  you  will 
see  by  his  commissions;  and,  professing  a  good  will 
to  our  cause,  I  hope  he  may  be  useful  in  instructing 
our  gunners  and  matrosses.  Perhaps  he  may  advise 
in  opening  the  nailed  cannon.  I  received  the  en- 
closed the  other  day,  from  an  officer,  Mr.  Newland, 
who  served  in  the  two  last  wars,  and  was  known  by 
General  Gates,  who  spoke  well  of  him  to  me  when  I 
was  at  Cambridge.  He  is  desirous  now  of  entering 
into  your  service.  I  have  advised  him  to  wait  upon 
you  at  New  York. 

They  still  talk  big  in  England  and  threaten  hard; 
but  their  language  is  somewhat  civiler,  at  least  not 
quite  so  disrespectful  to  us.  By  degrees  they  come 
to  their  senses,  but  too  late,  I  fancy,  for  their  interest. 

We  have  got  a  large  quantity  of  saltpetre,  one 
hundred  and  twenty  tons,  and  thirty  more  expected. 
Powder-mills  are  now  wanting.  I  believe  we  must 
set  to  work  to  make  it  by  hand.  But  I  still  wish, 
with  you,  that  pikes  could  be  introduced,  and  I 
would  add  bows  and  arrows.  These  were  good 
weapons,  not  wisely  laid  aside : 

I  St.  Because  a  man  may  shoot  as  truly  with  a  bow 
as  with  a  common  musket. 

2dly.  He  can  discharge  four  arrows  in  the  time  of 
charging  and  discharging  one  bullet. 

3dly.  His  object  is  not  taken  from  his  view  by  the 
smoke  of  his  own  side. 

4thly.  A  flight  of  arrows  seen  coming  upon  them, 


112  The  Works  of  [1776 

terrifies  and  disturbs  the  enemies'  attention  to  their 
business. 

5thly.  An  arrow  sticking  in  any  part  of  a  man  puts 
him  hors  du  combat  till  it  is  extracted. 

6thly.   Bows  and  arrows  are  more  easily  provided 
everywhere  than  muskets  and  ammunition. 

Polydore  Virgil,  speaking  of  one  of  our  battles 
against  the  French  in  Edward  the  Third's  reign, 
mentions  the  great  confusion  the  enemy  was  thrown 
into,  sagtttarum  nube,  from  the  English;  and  con- 
cludes: Est  res  profecto  dictu  mirabilis,  ut  tantus  ac 
potens  exercitus  a  soils  fere  Anglicis  sagittariis  victus 
fuerit;  adeo  Anglus  est  sagittipotens,  et  id  genus  ar- 
morum  valet.  If  so  much  execution  was  done  by 
arrows  when  men  wore  some  defensive  armor,  how 
much  more  might  be  done  now  that  it  is  out  of  use. 
I  am  glad  you  are  come  to  New  York,  but  I  also 
wish  you  could  be  in  Canada.  There  is  a  kind  of 
suspense  in  men's  minds  here  at  present,  waiting  to 
see  what  terms  will  be  offered  from  England.  I 
expect  none  that  we  can  accept;  and  when  that  is 
generally  seen,  we  shall  be  more  imanimous  and  more 
decisive.  Then  your  proposed  solemn  league  and 
covenant  will  go  better  down,  and  perhaps  most  of 
your  other  strong  measures  will  be  adopted.  I  am 
always  glad  to  hear  from  you,  but  I  do  not  deserve 
your  favors,  being  so  bad  a  correspondent.  My  eyes 
will  now  hardly  serve  me  to  write  by  night,  and 
these  short  days  have  been  all  taken  up  by  such  a 
variety  of  business,  that  I  seldom  can  sit  down  ten 
minutes  without  interruption.  God  give  you  success. 
I  am  with  the  greatest  esteem,  etc.,      B.  Franklin. 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  113 

DCXIII 


TO    CHARLES    LEE 


Philadelphia,  19  February  1776. 

Dear  Sir:— I  rejoice  that  you  are  going  to  Canada. 
I  hope  the  gout  will  not  have  the  courage  to  follow 
you  into  that  severe  climate.  I  believe  you  will  have 
the  number  of  men  you  wish  for.  I  am  told  there 
will  be  two  thousand  more,  but  there  are  always 
deficiencies. ' 

The  bearer,  Mr.  Paine,  has  requested  a  line  of  in- 
troduction to  you,  which  I  give  the  more  willingly,  as 
I  know  his  sentiments  are  not  very  different  from 
yours.  He  is  the  reputed,  and,  I  think,  the  real 
author  of  "Common  Sense,"  a  pamphlet  that  has 
made  great  impression  here.  I  do  not  enlarge,  both 
because  he  waits,  and  because  I  hope  for  the  pleasure 
of  conferring  with  you  face  to  face  in  Canada.  I  will 
only  add  that  we  are  assured  here,  on  the  part  of 
France,  that  the  troops  sent  to  the  West  Indies  have 
no  inimical  views  to  us  or  our  cause.  It  is  thought 
they  intend  a  war  without  a  previous  declaration. 
God  prosper  all  your  undertakings,  and  return  you 
with  health,  honor,  and  happiness. 

Yours  most  affectionately,  B.  Franklin. 

'  Congress  had  ordered  General  Lee  to  Canada,  but  he  was  sent  to 
the  south. 


114  The  Works  of  [1776 

DCXIV 

FROM    DAVID    HARTLEY  ^ 

London,  24  February,  1776. 

Dear  Sir: — It  is  so  long  since  I  have  had  the 
pleasure  of  hearing  from  you,  that  I  fear  the  ad- 
ministration has  but  too  effectually  stopped  the 
channel  of  communication  between  this  country 
and  its  colonies.  I  have  always  dreaded  this  event, 
as  fatal  and  final  to  the  prospect  of  a  national  recon- 
ciliation. When,  in  any  contention,  the  parties  are 
not  only  studiously  kept  asunder,  but  mischief- 
making  go-betweens  exert  every  art,  and  practise 
every  fraud,  to  inflame  jealousies,  animosities,  and 
resentments  between  them,  it  is  but  too  obvious  to 
fear,  that  your  own  prophetic  words  should  be  ac- 
compHshed;  that,  instead  of  that  cordial  affection, 
which  once  and  so  long  existed,  and  that  harmony 
so  suitable  to  the  happiness,  safety,  strength,  and 
welfare  of  both  coimtries,  a  mutual  hatred,  such  as 
we  see  subsisting  between  the  Spaniards  and  Por- 
tuguese, the  Genoese  and  Corsicans,  should  fatally 
take  root  between  the  parent  state  and  its  colonies. 

These  fears  are  not  abated  by  the  consideration 
of  the  incessant  injuries,  which  have  been,  and  which 
continue  to  be,  heaped  upon  our  unhappy  fellow- 
subjects  in  America.  These  injuries  are,  indeed, 
brought   upon   them   by   the    administration,    who 

I  The  original  of  this  letter  is  in  the  handwriting  of  David  Hartley, 
but  signed  "G.  B.,"  a  signature  which  Mr.  Hartley  affixed  to  many 
of  his  letters  to  Dr.  Franklin,  written  during  the  revolution.  Mr. 
Hartley  was  a  member  of  Pariiament,  and  opposed  to  the  ministerial 
measures  in  regard  to  America. — Sparks. 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  115 

usurp  the  authority,  which  they  pretend  to  derive 
from  the  people;  but,  from  the  distance  between 
us  and  our  American  brethren,  and  the  false  evi- 
dence transmitted  from  one  to  the  other,  I  greatly 
fear  that  national  resentments  will  become  indiscrim- 
inate. It  is  inseparable  from  human  nature,  that 
the  mind,  under  any  grievous  suffering,  especially 
injury,  will  be  distracted  and  broken  from  its  nearest 
connections,  which  may  happen  to  be  but  accident- 
ally involved.  The  affection  of  states  to  each  other 
consists  of  the  combination  of  personal  affections, 
parentage,  and  intercourse.  When  blood  is  shed, 
and  the  parent  weeps  for  his  son,  the  widow  for  her 
husband,  brother  for  brother,  an  inextinguishable 
resentment  arises.  Those  unfortunates  who  have 
lost  their  relatives  and  friends,  become  furious ;  and 
in  those  who  have  them  yet  to  lose,  horrors  and  fears 
take  place  of  and  drive  out  affection;  the  bonds  of 
attachment  are  let  loose,  and  all  the  tumultuous 
passions  are  set  afloat. 

I  know  that  you  are  as  sensible  of  these  conse- 
quences as  any  one  can  be.  You  have  foreseen 
them  afar  off.  You  have  predicted  them;  you  have 
done  every  thing  in  your  power  to  soften  animos- 
ities, and  to  put  off  the  evil  day.  I  hope  still,  that 
you  will  not  despair.  Your  age,  experience,  char- 
acter, humanity,  and  example  of  moderation  in 
disregarding  those  injuries  and  insults  which  have 
been  offered  to  yourself,  give  you  the  best  title  to 
plead  with  your  countrymen  to  suspend  their  re- 
sentments, to  discriminate  those  who  have  not 
injured  them,  and  to  remember  the  ties  of  affection 


ii6  The  Works  of  [1776 

between  themselves  and  their  fellow-subjects  in 
England.  I  see  the  influence  of  your  counsels  in 
the  Congress.  I  see  the  distinction  clearly  made  be- 
tween the  ministry  and  the  people  of  England;  but 
I  fear  that,  at  the  same  time,  the  seeds  of  jealousy 
are  struggling  to  break  out. 

The  address  from  the  Congress  to  the  Assembly  of 
Jamaica  speaks  of  the  people  of  England  as  dissi- 
pated and  corrupt.  The  people  of  England  are  far 
otherwise.  They  are  just  and  generous;  and,  if  it 
were  put  to  the  sense  of  the  people  of  England,  you 
would  not  be  left  in  any  doubt  whether  it  was  want 
of  will,  or  want  of  power;  to  do  you  justice.  You 
know  the  blot  of  our  constitution,  by  which,  to  our 
disgrace,  and  to  your  misfortune,  a  corrupt  ministry, 
sheltered  by  Parliamentary  influence,  are  out  of  our 
immediate  control.  A  day  of  accoimt  may  come, 
when  the  justice  of  the  nation  may  prevail;  and 
if  it  comes  not  too  late,  it  may  prove  a  day  of  recon- 
ciliation and  cordial  reunion  between  us  and  America. 
The  trial  is  with  you,  to  suspend  your  resentments 
from  becoming  indiscriminate;  and  a  great  trial 
it  is.  I  cannot  tell  you  what  efforts  the  ministry 
have  in  their  purpose  to  try.  I  am  amazed  at  their 
headstrong  hardiness  to  proceed  in  an  undertaking, 
which  gives  them  so  little  prospect  of  success. 

Many  of  your  best  friends  in  England  regret  that 
the  Congress  has  not  made  some  specific  and  definite 
proposition  upon  which  the  sense  of  the  people  of 
England  might  have  been  consulted.  A  people  at 
large  cannot  enter  into  historical  details,  especially 
when  facts  are  so  studiously  confounded  and  mis- 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  117 

represented,  but  still  they  could  judge  of  a  simple 
proposition.  If  any  such  had  been  made,  I  think 
it  would  have  been  the  most  likely  method  to  capti- 
vate the  good-will  of  the  nation.  While  the  propo- 
sitions of  the  Congress  are  general  and  indefinite, 
the  ministry  treat  them  as  general  words,  meaning 
little  or  nothing  in  fact.  But,  I  think,  the  further 
prosecution  of  hostile  measures  could  not  be  sup- 
ported by  the  ministry,  if  they  were  to  refuse  any 
definite  and  equitable  offer  of  accommodation,  made 
on  the  part  of  America.  If  it  be  possible,  let  the 
two  countries  be  once  more  reunited  in  affection.  It 
is  not  simply  peace  that  we  ought  to  strive  for,  but 
reconciliation,  which  is  more  than  peace.  We  may 
have  peace  with  foreign  states,  but  it  must  be  recon- 
ciliation alone  that  can  reunite  us  as  one  people. 
However  forlorn  the  prospect  may  be,  let  not  the 
common  friends  slacken  their  endeavors.  Con- 
stancy is  our  only  hope.  All  is  lost  if  we  despair.  I 
am,  dear  sir,  with  the  greatest  regard  and  esteem, 
affectionately  yours,  G.  B. 


DCXV 


TO    PHILIP    SCHUYLER  ^ 

Philadelphia,  ii  March,  1776. 

Sir: — The  Congress  have  appointed  three   com- 
missioners to  go  to  Canada,  of  which  number  I  have 

^  General  Schuyler  had  at  this  time  the  command  of  the  northern 
department,  and  of  the  army  operating  in  Canada. 


ii8  The  Works  of  [1776 

the  honor  to  be  one.^  We  purpose  setting  out  some 
day  this  week.  I  take  the  hberty  of  mentioning 
this,  as  possibly  a  httle  previous  notice  may  enable 

I  On  the  27th  of  March,  1776,  Congress  appointed  Dr.  Franklin, 
Samuel  Chase,  and  Charles  Carroll,  as  Commissioners  for  the  Colonies 
to  "promote  or  form  a  union  between  the  said  Colonies  and  the  people 
of  Canada."  John  Carroll,  a  Jesuit  priest,  afterwards  the  first  Roman- 
ist archbishop  in  America,  was  invited  by  Congress  to  accompany 
them,  for  the  sake  of  his  influence  over  a  population  composed  of 
less  than  one  Protestant  to  one  thousand  Romanists. 

An  American  army  was  then  in  Canada. 

Among  the  papers  preserved  in  the  first  volume  of  the  Transactions 
of  the  Maryland  Historical  Society,  is  a  diary  kept  by  Charles  Carroll 
during  this  expedition.  His  account  of  the  voyage  of  the  commis- 
sioners from  New  York  as  far  up  the  river  as  Po'keepsie,  furnishes  a 
curious  and  impressive  standard  by  which  to  estimate  the  changes 
wrought  in  the  speed  and  comfort  of  travel  on  the  Hudson  during  the 
succeeding  hundred  years.  A  journey  which  occupied  these  gentle- 
men four  days,  would  now  occupy  less  than  as  many  hours.  The 
commissioners  reached  Montreal  on  the  29th,  consuming  on  their 
jotimey  from  New  York  27  days. 

Journal  of  Charles  Carroll,  of  Carrollton,  during  his  Visit  to  Canada,  in 
1776,  as  one  of  the  Commissioners  from  Congress. 

April  2d,  1776. — Left  New  York  at  5  o'clock,  p.  m.  Sailed  up 
North  River,  or  Hudson,  that  afternoon  about  thirteen  miles.  About 
I  o'clock  in  the  night  were  awakened  by  the  firing  of  cannon;  heard 
three  great  gtms  distinctly  from  the  Asia:  soon  saw  a  great  fire,  which 
we  presvmied  to  be  a  house  on  Bedloe's  Island,  set  on  fire  by  a  detach- 
ment of  our  troops.  InteUigence  had  been  received  that  the  enemy 
were  throwing  up  intrenchments  on  that  island,  and  it  had  been 
determined  by  our  generals  to  drive  them  ofif.  Dr.  FrankUn  went 
upon  deck,  and  saw  wavering  flashes  of  light  appearing  suddenly 
and  disappearing,  which  he  conjectured  to  be  the  fire  of  musquetry, 
although  he  could  not  hear  the  report. 

3d. — A  bad  rainy  day;  wind  northeast;  a.  m.  11  o'clock,  opposite 
to  Col.  PhilUpp's  (a  tory);  pretty  situation  near  the  river;  a  garden 
sloping  down  to  it;  house  has  a  pretty  appearance;  a  church  at  little 
distance  on  the  south  side,  surrounded  by  cedar  trees.  The  banks  of 
the  river  on  the  western  side  exceedingly  steep  and  rocky;  pine  trees 
growing  amidst  the  rocks.  On  the  eastern  or  New  York  side  the  banks 
are  not  near  so  steep;  they  decline  pretty  gradually  to  the  water's 
edge.  The  river  is  straight  hitherto.  About  five  o'clock  the  wind 
breezed  up  from  the  south;    got  under  way  and  ran  with  a  pretty 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  119 

you  more  easily  to  make  any  preparation  you  shall 
judge  necessary  to  facilitate  and  expedite  our  jour- 
ney, which  I  am  sure  you  will  be  kindly  disposed  to 

easy  gale  as  far  as  the  Highlands,  forty  miles  from  New  York.  The 
river  here  is  greatly  contracted,  and  the  lands  on  each  side  very 
lofty.  When  we  got  into  this  strait  the  wind  increased,  and  blew 
in  violent  flaws;  in  doubling  one  of  these  steep  craggy  points  we 
were  in  danger  of  running  on  the  rocks;  endeavored  to  double  the 
cape  called  St.  Anthony's  Nose,  but  all  our  efforts  proved  ineffectual; 
obliged  to  retwrn  some  way  back  in  the  straits  to  seek  shelter;  in 
doing  this  our  mainsail  was  split  to  pieces  by  a  sudden  and  most 
violent  blast  of  wind  off  the  mountains.  Came  to  anchor;  blew  a 
perfect  storm  all  night  and  all  day  the  fourth.  Remained  all  day 
(the  fourth)  in  Thunder  Hill  bay,  about  a  mile  below  St.  Anthony's 
Nose,  and  a  quarter  of  a  mile  from  Thunder  Hill.  Our  crew  were 
employed  all  this  day  in  repairing  the  mainsail.  The  country  round 
about  the  bay  has  a  wild  and  romantic  appearance.  The  hills  are 
almost  perpendicularly  steep,  and  covered  with  rocks  and  trees  of  a 
small  size.  The  hill  called  St.  Anthony's  Nose  is  said  to  be  full  of 
sulphur.  I  make  no  doubt  this  place  has  experienced  some  violent 
convulsion  from  subterraneous  fire;  the  steepness  of  the  hills,  their 
correspondence,  the  narrowness  of  the  river,  and  its  depth,  all  confirm 
me  in  this  opinion. 

5th. — Wind  at  northeast,  mainsail  not  yet  repaired.  Sailed  about 
12  o'clock  from  Thunder  Hill  bay;  just  before  we  doubled  Cape 
Anthony's  Nose,  Mr.  Chase  and  I  landed  to  examine  a  beautiful  fall 
of  water.  Mr.  Chase,  very  apprehensive  of  the  leg  of  mutton  being 
boiled  too  much,  impatient  to  get  on  board;  wind  breezing  up,  we 
had  near  a  mile  to  row  to  overtake  the  vessel.  As  soon  as  we  doubled 
Cape  St.  Anthony's  Nose  a  beautiful  prospect  opened  on  us.  The 
river  from  this  place  to  Constitution  Fort,  bmlt  on  Martler's  Rock, 
forms  a  fine  canal,  surrounded  with  high  hills  of  various  shapes;  one 
in  particular  resembles  a  sugar  loaf,  and  is  so  called.  About  three 
miles  from  Cape  St.  Anthony's  Nose  is  another  beautiful  cascade 
called  "the  Buttermilk."  This  is  formed  by  a  rivulet  which  flows 
from  a  lake  on  the  top  of  a  neighboring  mountain ;  this  lake,  we  were 
told,  abotinds  with  trout  and  perch.  Arrived  about  five  o'clock  at 
Constitution  Fort.  Mr.  Chase  went  with  me  on  shore  to  visit  the  fort ; 
it  is  built  on  a  rock  called  Martler's  Rock;  the  river  at  this  place 
makes  a  sudden  bend  to  the  west;  the  battery  (for  it  does  not  deserve 
the  name  of  a  fort,  being  quite  open  on  the  northeast  side)  has  two 
flanks,  one  fronting  the  south,  and  the  other  the  west.  On  the  south 
flank  were  planted  thirteen  six-  and  one  nine-poimder;    on  the  west 


I20  The  Works  of  [1776 

do  for  us.  A  friend  with  us  will  make  our  company 
four,  besides  our  servants.  We  shall  either  go  in 
carriages  directly  to  Albany,  or  by  water  if  the  river 
is  open  from  New  York.  Hoping  soon  for  the  pleas- 
ure of  seeing  you,  I  now  only  add  that  I  am,  with  the 
sincerest  respect  and  esteem,  sir,  etc.,    B.  Franklin. 

flank  seven  nine-pounders  and  one  six-pounder;  but  there  were  no 
cannoniers  in  the  fort,  and  only  one  hundred  and  two  men  fit  to  do 
duty;  they  intend  to  erect  another  battery  on  an  eminence  called 
Gravel  Hill,  which  will  command  vessels  coming  up  the  river  as  soon 
as  they  double  Cape  St.  Anthony's  Nose.  A  little  above  this  cape  a 
battery  is  projected  to  annoy  the  enemy's  vessels,  to  be  called  Fort 
Montgomery ;  they  intend  another  battery  lower  down  the  river  and  a 
little  below  Cape  St.  Anthony's  Nose.  In  the  Highlands  are  many 
convenient  spots  to  construct  batteries  on,  but  in  order  to  make 
them  answer  the  intended  purpose,  weighty  metal  should  be  placed 
on  these  batteries  and  skilful  gixnners  shovdd  be  engaged  to  serve  the 
artillery.  About  9  o'clock  at  night,  the  tide  making,  we  weighed 
anchor,  and  came  to  again  about  6  o'clock  in  the  morning,  the  6th 
instant.  The  river  is  remarkably  deep  all  the  way  through  the 
Highlands,  and  the  tide  rapid.  When  we  came  to  an  anchor  off 
Constitution  Fort  we  found  the  depth  of  water  about  thirty  fathoms. 
These  Highlands  present  a  number  of  romantic  views,  the  steep  hills 
overshadow  the  water,  and  in  some  places  the  rocks,  should  they  be 
rolled  down,  would  fall  into  the  river,  several  feet  from  the  banks  on 
which  they  stood.  This  river  seems  by  nature  intended  to  open  a 
communication  between  Canada  and  the  Province  of  New  York  by 
water,  and,  by  some  great  convulsion,  a  passage  has  been  opened  by 
the  waters  of  the  Hudson  River  through  the  Highlands.  These 
are  certainly  a  sptir  of  the  endless  mountains. 

6th. — Weighed  anchor  about  seven  o'clock  in  the  morning;  had  a 
fine  breeze;  the  country  more  cultivated  above  the  Highlands; 
passed  several  mills,  all  of  them  overshot;  saw  two  frigates  on  the 
stocks  at  Pokeepsay,  building  for  the  service  of  the  United  Colonies: 
saw  a  great  many  lime  kilns  in  our  rxm  this  morning  on  both  sides  of 
the  river,  the  banks  of  which  begin  to  slope  more  gradually  to  the 
water's  edge.  We  wrote  to  General  Heath  from  off  Constitution  Fort, 
and  sent  the  letter  to  the  commanding  officer  of  the  fort,  with  orders 
to  forward  it  by  express  immediately  to  the  General  at  New  York. 
The  purport  of  the  letter  was  to  inform  the  General  of  the  very  de- 
fenceless condition  of  the  fort,  that  measures  might  be  immediately 
taken  to  put  it  in  a  better  posture  of  defence. 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  121 

P.  S. — The  bearer,  M.  La  Jeunesse,  has  been  con- 
sidered by  the  Congress  as  a  friend  to  the  American 
cause,  and  he  is  recommended  to  your  protection  on 
his  return  to  Canada. 


DCXVI 

TO    LORD    STIRLING  ' 

Brunswick,  27  March,  1776. 

My  Dear  Lord: — I  received  your  obhging  letter 
some  days  since  at  Philadelphia;  but  our  departure 
from  thence  being  so  uncertain,  I  could  not  till  now 
acquaint  your  lordship  when  we  expected  to  be  at 
New  York.  We  move  but  slowly,  and  I  think  we 
shall  scarce  reach  Newark  before  to-morrow,  so  that 
we  cannot  have  the  pleasure  of  seeing  you  before 
Friday.  Being  myself,  from  long  absence,  as  much 
a  stranger  in  New  York  as  the  other  gentlemen,  we 
join  in  requesting  you  would  be  so  good  as  to  cause 
lodgings  to  be  provided  for  us,  and  a  sloop  engaged 
to  carry  us  to  Albany.  There  are  five  of  us,  and  we 
propose  staying  in  New  York  two  nights  at  least. 
With  great  and  sincere  esteem  and  respect,  I  have 
the  honor  to  be,  etc.,  B.  Franklin. 

^  Brigadier-general  in  the  American  army,  and  stationed  at  New 
York,  where,  for  a  short  time,  he  had  the  chief  command,  after  the  de- 
parttire  of  General  Lee. 


122  The  Works  of  [1776 

DCXVII 

TO   JOSIAH    QUINCY 

Saratoga,  15  April,  1776. 

Dear  Sir: — I  am  here  on  my  way  to  Canada, 
detained  by  the  state  of  the  lakes,  in  which  the 
unthawed  ice  obstructs  navigation.  I  begin  to  ap- 
prehend that  I  have  undertaken  a  fatigue  that  at 
my  time  of  hfe  may  prove  too  much  for  me;  so 
I  sit  down  to  write  to  a  few  friends  by  way  of  farewell. 

I  congratulate  you  on  the  departure  of  your  late 
troublesome  neighbors.  I  hope  your  country  will 
now  for  some  time  have  rest,  and  that  care  will  be 
taken  so  to  fortify  Boston,  as  that  no  force  shall  be 
able  again  to  get  footing  there.  Your  very  kind 
letter  of  November  13th,  inclosing  Lord  Chatham's 
and  Lord  Camden's  speeches,  I  duly  received.  I 
think  no  one  can  be  more  sensible  than  I  am  of  the 
favors  of  corresponding  friends,  but  I  find  it  impos- 
sible to  answer  as  I  ought.  At  present  I  think  you 
will  deem  me  inexcusable,  and  therefore  I  will  not  at- 
tempt an  apology.  But  if  you  should  ever  happen 
to  be  at  the  same  time  oppressed  with  years  and  busi- 
ness, you  may  then  extenuate  a  little  for  your  old 
friend. 

The  notes  of  the  speeches  taken  by  your  son, 
whose  loss  I  shall  ever  deplore  with  you,  are  exceed- 
ingly valuable,  as  being  by  much  the  best  account 
preserved  of  that  day's  debate.* 

You  ask:    "When  is  the  Continental  Congress  by 

^  Notes  of  speeches  made  by  Lord  Chatham,  Lord  Camden,  and 
others,  in  the  British  House  of  Lords,  January  20,  1775.  See  Life  of 
Josiah  Quincy,  Junior,  pp.  318,  335. 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  123 

general  consent  to  be  formed  into  a  supreme  legisla- 
ture; alliances,  defensive  and  offensive,  formed;  our 
ports  opened,  and  a  formidable  naval  force  estab- 
lished at  the  public  charge?"  I  can  only  answer, 
at  present,  that  nothing  seems  wanting  but  that 
"general  consent."  The  novelty  of  the  thing  deters 
some ;  the  doubt  of  success,  others ;  the  vain  hope  of 
reconciliation,  many.  But  otir  enemies  take  con- 
tinually every  proper  measure  to  remove  these  ob- 
stacles, and  their  endeavors  are  attended  with 
success,  since  every  day  furnishes  us  with  new  causes 
of  increasing  enmity,  and  new  reasons  for  wishing 
an  eternal  separation,  so  that  there  is  a  rapid  in- 
crease of  the  formerly  small  party,  who  were  for  an 
independent  government. 

Your  epigram  on  Lord  Chatham's  remark  has  am- 
ply repaid  me  for  the  song.  Accept  my  thanks  for 
it,  and  for  the  charming  extract  of  a  lady's  letter, 
contained  in  your  favor  of  January  2  2d.  I  thought, 
when  I  sat  down,  to  have  written  by  this  opportunity 
to  Dr.  Cooper,  Mr.  Bowdoin,  and  Dr.  Winthrop,  but 
I  am  interrupted.  Be  so  good  as  to  present  my  af- 
fectionate respects  to  them,  and  to  your  family. 
Adieu,  my  dear  friend,  and  believe  me  ever  yours 
most  affectionately,  B.  Franklin. 

DCXVIII 

TO    PHILIP   SCHUYLER 

New  York,  27  May,  1776. 

Dear  General: — We  arrived  here  safe  yesterday 
evening  in  your  post-chaise,  driven  by  Lewis.     I  was 


124  The  Works  of  [1776 

unwilling  to  give  so  much  trouble,  and  would  have 
borrowed  your  sulky,  and  driven  myself;  but  good 
Mrs.  Schuyler  insisted  on  a  full  compliance  with  your 
pleasure,  as  signified  in  your  letter,  and  I  was  obliged 
to  submit,  which  I  was  afterwards  very  glad  of, 
part  of  the  road  being  very  stony  and  much  gullied, 
where  I  should  probably  have  overset  and  broken  my 
own  bones,  all  the  skill  and  dexterity  of  Lewis  being 
no  more  than  sufficient.  Through  the  influence  of 
your  kind  recommendation  to  the  innkeepers  on  the 
road,  we  found  a  great  readiness  to  supply  us  with 
a  change  of  horses.  Accept  our  thankful  acknow- 
ledgments; they  are  all  we  can  at  present  make. 

We  congratulate  you  on  the  very  valuable  prize 
made  at  Boston.  They  threaten  us  with  a  mighty 
force  from  England  and  Germany.  I  trust  that 
before  the  end  of  the  campaign  its  inefficacy  will  be 
apparent  to  all  the  world,  our  enemies  become  sick 
of  their  projects,  and  the  freedom  of  America  be 
established  on  the  surest  foundation — its  own  ability 
to  defend  it.  May  God  bless,  and  preserve  you,  for 
all  our  own  sakes  as  well  as  for  that  of  your  dear 
family!  Mr.  Carroll  joins  me  in  every  hearty  wish 
for  prosperity  and  felicity  to  you  and  yours.  With 
the  highest  esteem  and  respect  I  am,  dear  sir,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  125 

DCXIX 

TO    THE    COMMISSIONERS    IN    CANADA  ' 

New  York,  27  May,  1776. 

Dear  Friends: — We  arrived  here  safe  yesterday 
evening,  having  left  Mrs.  Walker  with  her  husband 
at  Albany,  from  whence  we  came  down  by  land.  We 
passed  him  on  Lake  Champlain;  but  he  returning 
overtook  us  at  Saratoga,  where  they  both  took  such 
liberties,  in  taunting  at  our  conduct  in  Canada,  that 
it  came  almost  to  a  quarrel.  We  continued  our  care 
of  her,  however,  and  landed  her  safe  in  Albany  with 
her  three  wagon  loads  of  baggage,  brought  thither 
without  putting  her  to  any  expense,  and  parted 
civilly,  though  coldly.  I  think  they  both  have  an 
excellent  talent  at  making  themselves  enemies,  and 
I  believe,  live  where  they  will,  they  will  never  be  long 
without  them. 

We  met  yesterday  two  officers  from  Philadelphia, 
with  a  letter  from  the  Congress  to  the  Commissioners, 
and  a  sum  of  hard  money.  I  opened  the  letter,  and 
sealed  it  again,  directing  them  to  carry  it  forward  to 
you.  I  congratulate  you  on  the  great  prize  carried 
into  Boston.  Seventy-five  tons  of  gunpowder  are  an 
excellent  supply,  and  the  thousand  carbines  with 
bayonets,  another  fine  article.  The  German  auxil- 
iaries are  certainly  coming.  It  is  our  business  to 
prevent  their  returning.  The  Congress  have  ad- 
vised  the   erecting   new   governments,    which    has 

I  The  condition  of  Dr.  Franklin's  health  compelled  him  to  leave 
Canada  before  the  other  Commissioners  returned,  with  the  Reverend 
Mr.  Carroll. 


126  The  Works  of  [1776 

occasioned  some  dissension  in  Philadelphia,  but  I 
hope  it  will  soon  be  composed.' 

I  shall  be  glad  to  hear  of  your  welfare.  As  to  my- 
self, I  find  I  grow  daily  more  feeble,  and  think  I 
could  hardly  have  got  along  so  far,  but  for  Mr.  Car- 
roll's friendly  assistance  and  tender  care  of  me. 
Some  symptoms  of  the  gout  now  appear,  which  make 
me  think  my  indisposition  has  been  a  smothered  fit 
of  that  disorder,  which  my  constitution  wanted 
strength  to  form  completely.  I  have  had  several 
fits  of  it  formerly. 

God  bless  you  and  prosper  your  counsels,  and 
bring  you  safe  again  to  your  friends  and  families. 
With  the  greatest  esteem  and  respect,  I  am,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


DCXX 

TO    GEORGE    WASHINGTON 

Philadelphia,  22  July,  1776. 

Sir: — The  bearer,  Mr.  Joseph  Belton,  some  time 
since  petitioned  the  Congress  for  encouragement  to 
destroy  the  enemy's  ships  of  war  by  some  contriv- 
ance of  his  invention.  They  came  to  no  conclusion 
on  his  petition;  and,  as  they  appear  to  have  no  great 
opinion  of  such  proposals,  it  is  not  easy,  in  the  mul- 

I  It  was  resolved  in  Congress,  "That  it  be  recommended  to  the 
respective  Assemblies  and  Conventions  of  the  United  Colonies,  where 
no  government  siifficient  for  the  exigencies  of  their  affairs  has  been 
hitherto  established,  to  adopt  such  form  of  government  as  shall,  in  the 
opinion  of  the  representatives  of  the  people,  best  conduce  to  the 
happiness  and  safety  of  their  constituents  in  particular,  and  America 
in  general." — Journals,  May  loth. 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  127 

tiplicity  of  business  before  them,  to  get  them  to  be- 
stow any  part  of  their  attention  on  his  request.  He 
is  now  desirous  of  trying  his  hand  on  the  ships  that 
are  gone  up  the  North  River ;  and,  as  he  proposes  to 
work  entirely  at  his  own  expense,  and  only  desires 
your  countenance  and  permission,  I  could  not  refuse 
his  desire  of  a  line  of  introduction  to  you,  the  trouble 
of  which  I  beg  you  to  excuse.  As  he  appears  to  be 
a  very  ingenious  man,  I  hope  his  project  may  be 
attended  with  success.  With  the  sincerest  esteem 
and  respect,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


DCXXI 


TO    HORATIO    GATES 

Philadelphia,  28  August,  1776. 

Dear  Sir: — The  Congress  being  advised,  that 
there  was  a  probability  that  the  Hessians  might  be 
induced  to  quit  the  British  service  by  offers  of  land, 
came  to  two  resolves  for  this  purpose,  which,  being 
translated  into  German  and  printed,  are  sent  to 
Staten  Island  to  be  distributed,  if  practicable,  among 
those  people.  Some  of  them  have  tobacco  marks  on 
the  back,  that  so  tobacco  being  put  up  in  them  in 
small  quantities,  as  the  tobacconists  use,  and  suffered 
to  fall  into  the  hands  of  these  people,  they  might 
divide  the  papers  as  plimder,  before  their  officers 
could  come  to  the  knowledge  of  the  contents,  and 
prevent  their  being  read  by  the  men.  That  was 
the  first  resolve.     A  second  has  since  been  made  for 


128  The  Works  of  [1776 

the  officers  themselves.  I  am  desired  to  send  some 
of  both  sorts  to  you,  that,  if  you  find  it  practicable, 
you  may  convey  them  among  the  Germans  that 
shall  come  against  you. 

The  Congress  continue  firmly  united,  and  we  begin 
to  distress  the  enemy's  trade  very  much ;  many  valu- 
able prizes  being  continually  brought  in.  Arms  and 
ammunition  are  also  continually  arriving,  the  French 
having  resolved  to  permit  the  exportation  to  us,  as 
they  heartily  wish  us  success ;  so  that  in  another  year 
we  shall  be  well  provided. 

As  you  may  not  have  .seen  Dr.  Price's  excellent 
pamphlet,  for  writing  which  the  city  of  London  pre- 
sented him  a  freedom  in  a  gold  box  of  fifty  pounds' 
value,  I  send  you  one  of  them. 

My  last  advices  from  England  say  that  the  minis- 
try have  done  their  utmost  in  fitting  out  this  arma- 
ment, and  that  if  it  fails  they  cannot  find  means 
next  year  to  go  on  with  the  war.  While  I  am  writ- 
ing comes  an  account  that  the  armies  were  engaged 
on  Long  Island,  the  event  unknown,  which  throws  us 
into  anxious  suspense.  God  grant  success.  I  am, 
etc.,  B.  Franklin. 

DCXXII 

SKETCH  OF  PROPOSITIONS  FOR  A  PEACE  ' 

There  shall  be  a  perpetual  peace  between  Great 
Britain  and  the  United  States  of  America,  on  the 
following  conditions. 

*  On  the  26th  of  September,  1776,  Dr.  Franklin  was  appointed  one 
of  the  Commissioners  from  Congress  to  the  Court  of  France.     Before 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  129 

Great  Britain  shall  renounce  and  disclaim  all  pre- 
tence of  right  or  authority  to  govern  in  any  of  the 
United  States  of  America. 

To  prevent  those  occasions  of  misunderstanding, 
which  are  apt  to  arise  where  the  territories  of  different 
.powers  border  on  each  other,  through  the  bad  con- 
duct of  frontier  inhabitants  on  both  sides,  Britain 
shall  cede  to  the  United  States  the  provinces  or 
colonies  of  Quebec,  St.  John's,  Nova  Scotia,  Ber- 
muda, East  and  West  Florida,  and  the  Bahama 
Islands,  with  all  their  adjoining  and  intermediate 
territories  now  claimed  by  her. 

In  return  for  this  cession,  the  United  States  shall 

pay  to  Great  Britain  the  sum  of  sterling, 

in  annual  payments ;  that  is  to  say, per  annum, 

for  and  during  the  terms  of years, 

And  shall,  moreover,  grant  a  free  trade  to  all  Brit- 
ish subjects  throughout  the  United  States  and  the 
ceded  colonies,  and  shall  guarantee  to  Great  Britain 
the  possession  of  her  islands  in  the  West  Indies, 

Motives  for  Proposing  a  Peace  at  This  Time 

1.  The  having  such  propositions  in  charge  will,  by 
the  law  of  nations,  be  some  protection  to  the  com- 
missioners or  ambassadors,  if  they  should  be  taken. 

2.  As  the  news  of  our  declared  independence  will 
tend  to  unite  in  Britain  all  parties  against  us,  so  our 

his  departure  he  sketched  a  brief  outHne  of  the  terms  upon  which  he 
supposed  a  peace  might  be  made  with  Great  Britain,  in  case  an  op- 
portunity for  a  negotiation  should  offer.  His  propositions  were  sub- 
mitted to  the  secret  committee  of  Congress  but  no  occasion  presented 
itself  for  using  them. 


I30  The  Works  of  [1776 

offering  peace,  with  commerce  and  payments  of 
money,  will  tend  to  divide  them  again.  For  peace  is 
as  necessary  to  them  as  to  us;  our  commerce  is 
wanted  by  their  merchants  and  manufacturers,  who 
will  therefore  incline  to  the  accommodation,  even 
though  the  monopoly  is  not  continued,  since  it  can  be 
easily  made  to  appear  their  share  of  our  growing 
trade  will  soon  be  greater  than  the  whole  has  been 
heretofore.  Then,  for  the  landed  interest,  who  wish 
an  alleviation  of  taxes,  it  is  demonstrable  by  figures, 
that,  if  we  should  agree  to  pay,  suppose  ten  millions 
in  one  hundred  years,  viz.,  one  hundred  thousand 
pounds  per  annum  for  that  term,  it  would,  being 
faithfully  employed  as  a  sinking  fund,  more  than  pay 
off  all  their  present  national  debt.  It  is,  besides,  a 
prevailing  opinion  in  England,  that  they  must  in  the 
nature  of  things  sooner  or  later  lose  the  colonies,  and 
many  think  they  had  better  be  without  the  govern- 
ment of  them;  so  that  the  proposition  will,  on  that 
account,  have  more  supporters  and  fewer  opposers. 

3.  As  the  having  such  propositions  to  make,  or  any 
powers  to  treat  of  peace,  will  furnish  a  pretence  for 
B.  F.'s  going  to  England,  where  he  has  many  friends 
and  acquaintances,  particularly  among  the  best 
writers  and  ablest  speakers  in  both  Houses  of  Par- 
liament, he  thinks  he  shall  be  able  when  there,  if 
the  terms  are  not  accepted,  to  work  up  such  a  divi- 
sion of  sentiments  in  the  nation,  as  greatly  to  weaken 
its  exertions  against  the  United  States,  and  lessen  its 
credit  in  foreign  countries. 

4.  The  knowledge  of  there  being  powers  given  to 
the  commissioners  to  treat  with  England,  may  have 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  131 

some  effect  in  facilitating  and  expediting  the  pro- 
posed treaty  with  France. 

5.  It  is  worth  our  while  to  offer  such  a  sum  for  the 
countries  to  be  ceded,  since  the  vacant  lands  will  in 
time  sell  for  a  great  part  of  what  we  shall  give,  if  not 
more;  and,  if  we  are  to  obtain  them  by  conquest, 
after  perhaps  a  long  war,  they  will  probably  cost  us 
more  than  that  sum.  It  is  absolutely  necessary  for 
us  to  have  them  for  our  own  security;  and  though 
the  sum  may  seem  large  to  the  present  generation, 
in  less  than  half  the  term  it  will  be  to  the  whole 
United  States  a  mere  trifle. 


DCXXIII 


TO    PHILIP    MAZZEI 


Philadelphia.     [Date  uncertain.] 

Dear  Sir: — It  was  with  great  pleasure  that  I 
learned  from  Mr.  Jefferson  that  you  were  settled 
in  America;  and,  from  the  letter  you  favored  me 
with,  that  you  liked  the  country,  and  have  reasons 
to  expect  success  in  your  laudable  and  meritorious 
endeavors  to  introduce  new  products.  I  heartily 
wish  you  all  the  success  you  can  desire  in  that, 
and  every  other  laudable  undertaking  that  may  con- 
duce to  your  comfortable  establishment  in  your 
present  situation.  I  know  not  how  it  has  happened 
that  you  have  not  received  an  answer  from  the  secre- 
tary of  our  society.  I  suppose  they  must  have 
written,  and  that  it  has  miscarried.     If  you  have  not 


132  The  Works  of  [1776 

yet  sent  the  books  which  the  Academy  of  Turin  have 
done  us  the  honor  to  present  us  with,  we  must,  I 
fear,  wait  for  more  quiet  times  before  we  can  have 
the  pleasure  of  receiving  them,  the  communication 
being  now  very  difficult. 

All  America  is  obliged  to  the  Grand  Duke  for 
his  benevolence  to  it,  and  for  the  protection  he 
afforded  you,  and  his  encouragement  of  your  under- 
taking. We  have  experienced  that  silk  may  be  pro- 
duced to  great  advantage.  While  in  London  I  had 
some  trunks  full  sent  to  me  from  hence,  three  years 
successively;  and  it  sold  by  auction  for  nineteen 
shillings  and  sixpence  the  small  pound,  which  was 
not  much  below  the  silk  of  Italy. 

The  Congress  have  not  yet  extended  their  views 
much  towards  foreign  powers.  They  are  neverthe- 
less obliged  by  your  kind  offers  of  your  service,  which 
perhaps  in  a  year  or  two  more  may  become  very  use- 
ful to  them.  I  am  myself  much  pleased  that  you 
have  sent  a  translation  of  our  Declaration  of  Inde- 
pendence to  the  Grand  Duke ;  because,  having  a  high 
esteem  for  the  character  of  that  prince,  and  of  the 
whole  imperial  family,  from  the  accounts  given  me  of 
them  by  my  friend.  Dr.  Ingenhousz  and  yourself,  I 
should  be  happy  to  find  that  we  stood  well  in  the 
opinion  of  that  court. 

Mr.  Tromond  of  Milan,  with  whom  I  had  the 
pleasure  of  being  acquainted  in  London,  spoke  to  me 
of  a  plant  much  used  in  Italy,  and  which  he  thought 
might  be  useful  in  America.  He  promised,  at  my 
request,  to  find  me  some  of  the  seeds,  which  he  has 
accordingly  done.     I  have  unfortunately  forgotten 


[776]  Benjamin  Franklin 


i^"^ 


the  use  and  know  nothing  of  the  culture.  In  both 
these  particulars  I  must  beg  information  and  advice 
from  you.  It  is  called  ravizzoni.  I  send  specimens 
of  the  seed  inclosed.  I  received  from  the  same  Mr. 
Tromond  four  copies  of  a  translation  of  some  of  my 
pieces  into  the  fine  language  of  your  native  country. 
I  beg  your  acceptance  of  one  of  them,  and  of  my 
best  wishes  for  your  health  and  prosperity.  With 
great  esteem,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


DCXXIV 

CORRESPONDENCE  AND  INTERVIEW  WITH  LORD  HOWE  ' 


FROM    LORD    HOWE 

"Eagle,''  20  Jiine,  1776. 

I  cannot,  my  worthy  friend,  permit  the  letters  and 
parcels,  which  I  have  sent  in  the  state  I  received 

I  Near  the  beginning  of  the  year  1776,  Lord  Howe  was  appointed  to 
command  the  British  fleet  in  North  America,  and  on  the  3d  of  May  was 
declared  joint  commissioner  with  his  brother,  General  William  Howe, 
for  the  piirpose  of  endeavoring  to  effect  a  reconciliation  with  the 
colonies,  conformable  to  the  terms  of  an  act  of  Parliament.  In  the 
first  part  of  July  Lord  Howe  arrived  at  Staten  Island,  where  he  fotmd 
his  brother  with  the  British  army.  He  had  previously  prepared  a 
Declaration  announcing  the  object  of  his  mission,  which  he  designed 
for  distribution  in  the  colonies,  accompanied  by  circular-letters  to  the 
royal  governors.  Copies  of  these  papers  were  forwarded  to  Congress, 
by  whose  orders  they  were  immediately  published.  Lord  Howe  like- 
wise wrote  a  private  letter  to  Dr.  Franklin,  then  a  member  of  Congress, 
which  he  answered. 

Meantime,  as  Congress  took  no  steps  to  meet  the  advances  of  the 
British  commissioners,  in  their  proposals  for  reconciliation,  they  com- 


134  The  Works  of  [1776 

them,  to  be  landed,  without  adding  a  word  upon  the 
subject  of  the  injurious  extremities  in  which  our 
unhappy  differences  have  engaged  us. 

You  will  learn  the  nature  of  my  mission  from  the 
official  despatches,  which  I  have  recommended  to 
be  forwarded  by  the  same  conveyance.  Retaining 
all  the  earnestness  I  ever  expressed  to  see  our  differ- 
ences accommodated,  I  shall  conceive,  if  I  meet  with 
the  disposition  in  the  colonies  I  was  once  taught  to 
expect,  the  most  flattering  hopes  of  proving  service- 
able in  the  objects  of  the  king's  paternal  solicitude, 
by  promoting  the  establishment  of  lasting  peace  and 

menced  military  operations,  and  the  battle  of  Long  Island  was  fought. 
General  Sullivan  was  taken  prisoner  in  this  action,  and  conducted 
on  board  Lord  Howe's  ship.  At  his  request  General  Sullivan  went  to 
Philadelphia  on  parole,  having  in  charge  certain  verbal  communications 
to  Congress,  tending  to  open  the  way  to  some  method  of  effecting  the 
objects  of  the  commissioners.  After  maturely  considering  the  subject, 
Congress  resolved  to  send  a  committee  of  their  members  to  hold  a 
conference  with  Lord  Howe.  The  persons  selected  for  this  mission 
were  Franklin,  John  Adams,  and  Edward  Rutledge. 

In  regard  to  the  previous  correspondence  mentioned  above,  the 
following  memorandum  was  afterwards  written  by  Dr.  Franklin. 

"  These  letters  were  published  in  London,  to  show  the  insolence  of  the 
insurgents,  in  refusing  the  offer  of  pardon  upon  submission,  made  to 
them  by  the  British  plenipotentiaries.  They  undoubtedly  deserve 
the  attention  of  the  public  for  another  reason,  the  proof  they  afford 
that  the  commerce  of  America  is  deemed  by  the  ministry  themselves 
of  such  vast  importance,  as  to  justify  the  horrid  and  expensive  war 
they  are  now  waging  to  maintain  the  monopoly  of  it ;  that  being  the 
principal  cause  stated  by  Lord  Howe;  though  their  pensioned  writers 
and  speakers  in  Parliament  have  affected  to  treat  that  commerce  as  a 
trifle.  And  they  demonstrate  further,  of  how  much  importance  it  is 
to  the  rest  of  Europe,  that  the  continuance  of  that  monopoly  should 
be  obstructed,  and  the  general  freedom  of  trade,  now  offered  by  the 
Americans,  prevented;  since  by  no  other  means  the  enormous  growing 
power  of  Britain  both  by  sea  and  land,  so  formidable  to  their  neighbors, 
and  which  must  follow  her  success,  can  possibly  be  prevented." — 
Sparks. 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  135 

union  with  the  colonies.  But,  if  the  deep-rooted 
prejudices  of  America,  and  the  necessity  for  pre- 
venting her  trade  from  passing  into  foreign  channels, 
must  keep  us  still  a  divided  people,  I  shall,  from 
every  private  as  well  as  public  motive,  most  heartily 
lament  that  this  is  not  the  moment  wherein  those 
great  objects  of  my  ambition  are  to  be  attained,  and 
that  I  am  to  be  longer  deprived  of  an  opportimity 
to  assure  you  personally  of  the  regard  with  which  I 
am  your  sincere  and  faithful  humble  servant, 

Howe. 

P.  S. — I  was  disappointed  of  the  opportimity  I 
expected  for  sending  this  letter  at  the  time  it  was 
dated,  and  have  ever  since  been  prevented  by  calms 
and  contrary  winds  from  getting  here,  to  inform 
General  Howe  of  the  commission  with  which  I  have 
the  satisfaction  to  be  charged,  and  of  his  being  joined 
in  it. 

Off  Sandy  Hook,  12th  of  July. 


TO    LORD    HOWE 

Philadelphia,  20  July,  1776. 

My  Lord: — I  received  safe  the  letters  your  lord- 
ship so  kindly  forwarded  to  me,  and  beg  you  to  ac- 
cept my  thanks. 

The  official  despatches,  to  which  you  refer  me,  con- 
tain nothing  more  than  what  we  had  seen  in  the  act 
of  Parliament,  viz.,  offers  of  pardon  upon  submission, 
which  I  am  sorry  to  find,  as  it  must  give  your  lord- 
ship pain  to  be  sent  so  far  on  so  hopeless  a  business. 

Directing  pardons  to  be  offered  the  colonies,  who 


136  The  Works  of  [1776 

are  the  very  parties  injured,  expresses  indeed  that 
opinion  of  our  ignorance,  baseness,  and  insensibiUty, 
which  your  uninformed  and  proud  nation  has  long 
been  pleased  to  entertain  of  us ;  but  it  can  have  no 
other  effect  than  that  of  increasing  our  resentment. 
It  is  impossible  we  should  think  of  submission  to  a 
government,  that  has  with  the  most  wanton  barbar- 
ity and  cruelty  burnt  our  defenceless  towns  in  the 
midst  of  winter,  excited  the  savages  to  massacre  our 
farmers,  and  our  slaves  to  murder  their  masters,  and 
is  even  now  bringing  foreign  mercenaries  to  deluge 
our  settlements  with  blood.  These  atrocious  in- 
juries have  extinguished  every  remaining  spark  of 
affection  for  that  parent  country  we  once  held  so 
dear;  but,  were  it  possible  for  us  to  forget  and  forgive 
them,  it  is  not  possible  for  you  (I  mean  the  British 
nation)  to  forgive  the  people  you  have  so  heavily 
injured.  You  can  never  confide  again  in  those  as 
fellow-subjects,  and  permit  them  to  enjoy  equal 
freedom,  to  whom  you  know  you  have  given  such 
just  cause  of  lasting  enmity.  And  this  must  impel 
you,  were  we  again  under  your  government,  to 
endeavor  the  breaking  our  spirit  by  the  severest 
tyranny,  and  obstructing,  by  every  means  in  your 
power,  our  growing  strength  and  prosperity. 

But  your  lordship  mentions  "the  king's  paternal 
solicitude  for  promoting  the  establishment  of  lasting 
peace  and  union  with  the  colonies. "  If  by  peace  is  here 
meant  a  peace  to  be  entered  into  between  Britain 
and  America,  as  distinct  states  now  at  war,  and 
his  Majesty  has  given  your  lordship  powers  to  treat 
with  us  of  such  a  peace,  I  may  venture  to  say,  though 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  137 

without  authority,  that  I  think  a  treaty  for  that 
purpose  not  yet  quite  impracticable,  before  we  enter 
into  foreign  alliances.  But  I  am  persuaded  you  have 
no  such  powers.  Your  nation,  though,  by  punishing 
those  American  governors  who  have  created  and 
fomented  the  discord;  rebuilding  our  burnt  towns, 
and  repairing  as  far  as  possible  the  mischiefs  done  us, 
might  yet  recover  a  great  share  of  our  regard,  and  the 
greatest  part  of  our  growing  commerce,  with  all  the 
advantage  of  that  additional  strength  to  be  derived 
from  a  friendship  with  us;  but  I  know  too  well  her 
abounding  pride  and  deficient  wisdom,  to  believe  she 
will  ever  take  such  salutary  measures.  Her  fondness 
for  conquest,  as  a  warlike  nation,  her  lust  of  dominion 
as  an  ambitious  one,  and  her  thirst  for  a  gainful 
monopoly  as  a  commercial  one  (none  of  them  legiti- 
mate causes  of  war),  will  all  join  to  hide  from  her 
eyes  every  view  of  her  true  interests,  and  continually 
goad  her  on  in  those  ruinous  distant  expeditions,  so 
destructive  both  of  lives  and  treasure,  that  must 
prove  as  pernicious  to  her  in  the  end,  as  the  crusades 
formerly  were  to  most  of  the  nations  of  Europe. 

I  have  not  the  vanity,  my  lord,  to  think  of  intimi- 
dating by  thus  pi-edicting  the  effects  of  this  war ;  for 
I  know  it  will  in  England  have  the  fate  of  all  my 
former  predictions,  not  to  be  believed  till  the  event 
shall  verify  it. 

Long  did  I  endeavor,  with  unfeigned  and  un- 
wearied zeal,  to  preserve  from  breaking  that  fine  and 
noble  china  vase,  the  British  empire;  for  I  knew 
that,  being  once  broken,  the  separate  parts  could  not 
retain  even  their  share  of  the  strength  or  value  that 


138  The  Works  of  [1776 

existed  in  the  whole,  and  that  a  perfect  reunion  of 
those  parts  could  scarce  ever  be  hoped  for.  Your 
Lordship  may  possibly  remember  the  tears  of  joy 
that  wet  my  cheek,  when,  at  your  good  sister's  in 
London,  you  once  gave  me  expectations  that  a  recon- 
ciliation might  soon  take  place.  I  had  the  misfor- 
tune to  find  those  expectations  disappointed,  and  to 
be  treated  as  the  cause  of  the  mischief  I  was  laboring 
to  prevent.  My  consolation  under  that  groundless 
and  malevolent  treatment  was,  that  I  retained  the 
friendship  of  many  wise  and  good  men  in  that 
country,  and,  among  the  rest,  some  share  in  the  re- 
gard of  Lord  Howe. 

The  well-founded  esteem,  and,  permit  me  to  say, 
affection,  which  I  shall  always  have  for  your  lord- 
ship, makes  it  painful  to  me  to  see  you  engaged  in 
conducting  a  war,  the  great  ground  of  which,  as 
expressed  in  your  letter,  is  "the  necessity  of  pre- 
venting the  American  trade  from  passing  into  foreign 
channels."  To  me  it  seems,  that  neither  the  obtain- 
ing or  retaining  of  any  trade,  how  valuable  soever,  is 
an  object  for  which  men  may  justly  spill  each  other's 
blood ;  that  the  true  and  sure  means  of  extending  and 
securing  commerce  is  the  goodness  and  cheapness 
of  commodities;  and  that  the  profit  of  no  trade  can 
ever  be  equal  to  the  expense  of  compelling  it,  and 
of  holding  it,  by  fleets  and  armies. 

I  consider  this  war  against  us,  therefore,  as  both 
unjust  and  unwise;  and  I  am  persuaded  that  cool, 
dispassionate  posterity  will  condemn  to  infamy 
those  who  advised  it ;  and  that  even  success  will  not 
save  from  some  degree  of  dishonor  those  who  voltm- 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  139 

tarily  engaged  to  conduct  it.  I  know  your  great 
motive  in  coming  hither  was  the  hope  of  being  instru- 
mental in  a  reconciliation;  and  I  believe,  when  you 
find  that  impossible  on  any  terms  given  you  to  pro- 
pose, you  will  relinquish  so  odious  a  command,  and 
return  to  a  more  honorable  private  station. 

With  the  greatest  and  most  sincere  respect,  I  have 
the  honor  to  be,  my  Lord,  your  Lordship's  most 
obedient  humble  servant,  B.  Franklin.  ^ 


FROM    LORD    HOWE 

'"Eagle,"  off  Staten  Island,  i6  August,  1776. 

I  am  sorry,  my  worthy  friend,  that  it  is  only  on 
the  assurances  you  give  me  of  my  having  still  pre- 
served a  place  in  your  esteem,  that  I  can  now  found 
a  pretension  to  trouble  you  with  a  reply  to  your  favor 
of  the  20th  past. 

I  can  have  no  difficulty  to  acknowledge,  that  the 
powers  I  am  invested  with  were  never  calculated 
to  negotiate   a  reunion  with   America,   under  any 

^  Colonel  William  Palfrey,  Paymaster-General  of  the  American 
Army,  went  on  board  Lord  Howe's  vessel,  July  30,  1776,  to  make 
some  arrangement  for  an  exchange  of  prisoners,  who  had  been  captured 
at  sea.  He  was  accompanied  by  Mr.  Nathaniel  Tracy,  who  carried 
with  him  the  above  letter  from  Dr.  Franklin  to  Lord  Howe.  In  a 
letter  to  President  Hancock,  written  the  next  day,  Colonel  Palfrey 
says: 

"  Mr.  Tracy  delivered  the  letter  from  Dr.  Franklin,  which  he  (Lord 
Howe)  read.  I  watched  his  cotmtenance,  and  observed  him  often 
to  exhibit  marks  of  surprise.  When  he  had  finished  reading  it,  he 
said  his  old  friend  had  expressed  himself  very  warmly;  that,  when 
he  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  him  in  England,  he  made  him  acquainted 
with  his  sentiments  respecting  the  dispute  between  Great  Britain  and 


I40  The  Works  of  [1776 

other  description  than  as  subject  to  the  crown  of 
Great  Britain.  But  I  do  esteem  those  powers  com- 
petent, not  only  to  confer  and  negotiate  with  any 
gentlemen  of  influence  in  the  colonies  upon  the 
terms,  but  also  to  effect  a  lasting  peace  and  reunion 
between  the  two  countries,  were  the  temper  of  t?ie 
colonies  such  as  professed  in  the  last  petition  of  the 
Congress  to  the  king.  America  would  have  judged 
in  the  discussion  how  far  the  means  were  adequate 
to  the  end,  both  for  engaging  her  confidence  and 
proving  our  integrity.  Nor  did  I  think  it  necessary 
to  say  more  in  my  public  declaration,  not  conceiving 
it  could  be  understood  to  refer  to  peace  on  any  other 
conditions  but  those  of  mutual  interest  to  both 
countries,  which  could  alone  render  it  permanent. 

But,  as  I  perceive  from  the  tenor  of  your  letter, 
how  little  I  am  to  reckon  upon  the  advantage  of 
your  assistance,  for  restoring  that  permanent  union 
which  has  long  been  the  object  of  my  endeavors, 
and  which,  I  flattered  myself  when  I  left  England, 
would  be  in  the  compass  of  my  power;  I  will  only 
add  that,  as  the  dishonor  to  which  you  deem  me 
exposed  by  my  military  situation  in  this  country 

the  colonies,  and  with  his  earnest  desire  that  a  reconciHation  might 
take  place,  equally  honorable  and  advantageous  to  both.  Possessed 
of  these  sentiments,  and  the  most  ardent  desire  to  be  the  means  of 
effecting  this  union,  he  had  accepted  the  honor  the  king  had  done  him 
in  appointing  him  one  of  the  commissioners;  and  that  tmfortunately  a 
long  passage  prevented  his  arriving  here  before  the  declaration  of 
independence.  I  told  him  he  had  now  a  fair  opportunity  to  mention 
to  his  friend.  Dr.  Franklin,  in  a  private  letter,  his  design  in  coming 
out,  and  what  his  expectations  from  America  were.  This  he  declined, 
saying,  that  the  Doctor  had  grown  too  warm,  and,  if  he  expressed  his 
sentiments  fully  to  him,  he  should  only  give  him  pain,  which  he  would 
wish  to  avoid." 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  141 

has  effected  no  change  in  your  sentiments  of  per- 
sonal regard  towards  me,  so  shall  no  difference  in 
political  points  alter  my  desire  of  proving  how  much 
I  am  your  sincere  and  obedient  humble  servant, 

Howe. 

In  Congress,  September  2,  1776. — Congress  being 
informed  that  General  Sullivan,  who  was  taken 
prisoner  on  Long  Island,  was  come  to  Philadelphia 
with  a  message  from  Lord  Howe, 

Ordered,  that  he  be  admitted  and  heard  before 
Congress. 

General  Sullivan  being  admitted,  delivered  the 
verbal  message  he  had  in  charge  from  Lord  Howe, 
which  he  desired  to  reduce  to  writing,  and  with- 
drew. 

September  ^d. — General  Sullivan  having  reduced 
to  writing  the  verbal  message  from  Lord  Howe,  the 
same  was  laid  before  Congress  and  read  as  follows : 

"  That,  though  he  could  not  at  present  treat  with 
Congress,  as  such,  yet  he  was  desirous  of  having  a 
conference  with  some  of  the  members,  whom  he 
would  consider  for  the  present  only  as  private  gen- 
tlemen, and  meet  them  himself  as  such,  at  such 
place  as  they  should  appoint. 

"  That  he,  in  conjunction  with  General  Howe,  had 
full  powers  to  compromise  the  disputes  between 
Great  Britain  and  America  on  terms  advantageous 
to  both,  the  obtaining  of  which  delayed  him  near 
two  months  in  England,  and  prevented  his  arrival 
at  this  place  before  the  declaration  of  independence 
took  place. 


142  The  Works  of  [1776 

"That  he  wished  a  compact  might  be  settled  at 
this  time,  when  no  decisive  blow  was  struck,  and 
neither  party  could  say  they  were  compelled  to 
enter  into  such  agreement. 

"That,  in  case  Congress  were  disposed  to  treat, 
many  things  which  they  had  not  as  yet  asked, 
might  and  ought  to  be  granted  to  them;  and  that, 
if,  upon  the  conference,  they  found  any  probable 
ground  of  accommodation,  the  authority  of  Con- 
gress must  be  afterwards  acknowledged,  otherwise 
the  compact  could  not  be  complete." 

September  sth. — Resolved,  that  General  SulHvan 
be  requested  to  inform  Lord  Howe,  that  this  Con- 
gress, being  the  representatives  of  the  free  and 
independent  States  of  America,  cannot,  with  pro- 
priety, send  any  of  its  members  to  confer  with  his 
lordship  in  their  private  characters,  but  that,  ever 
desirous  of  establishing  peace  on  reasonable  terms, 
they  will  send  a  committee  of  their  body  to  know 
whether  he  has  any  authority  to  treat  with  persons 
authorized  by  Congress  for  that  purpose  on  behalf 
of  America,  and  what  that  authority  is,  and  to  hear 
such  propositions  as  he  shall  think  fit  to  make  re- 
specting the  same. 

Ordered,  that  a  copy  of  the  foregoing  resolution 
be  delivered  to  General  Sullivan,  and  that  he  be 
directed  immediately  to  repair  to  Lord  Howe. 

September  6th. — Resolved,  that  the  committee 
"to  be  sent  to  know  whether  Lord  Howe  has  any 
authority  to  treat  with  persons  authorized  by  Con- 
gress for  that  purpose,  in  behalf  of  America,  and 
what  that  authority  is,  and  to  hear  such  propositions 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  143 

as  he  shall  think  fit  to  make  respecting  the  same," 
consist  of  three. 

Congress  then  proceeded  to  the  election,  and,  the 
ballots  being  taken,  Mr.  Franklin,  Mr.  Adams,  and 
Mr.  Rutledge  were  elected. ' 


TO    LORD    HOWE 

Philadelphia,  8  September,  1776. 

My  Lord: — I  received  your  favor  of  the  i6th 
past.  I  did  not  immediately  answer  it,  because  I 
found  that  my  corresponding  with  your  lordship 
was  disliked  by  some  members  of  Congress.  I  hope 
now  soon  to  have  an  opportunity  of  discussing  with 
you,  viva  voce,  the  matters  mentioned  in  it ;  as  I  am, 
with  Mr.  Adams  and  Mr.  Rutledge,  appointed  to 
wait  on  your  lordship,  in  consequence  of  a  desire 
you  expressed  at  some  conversation  with  General 
Sullivan,  and  of  a  resolution  of  Congress  made  there- 
upon, which  that  gentleman  has  probably  before  this 
time  communicated  to  you. 

We  propose  to  set  out  on  our  journey  to-morrow 
morning,  and  to  be  at  Amboy  on  Wednesday  about 
nine  o'clock,  where  we  should  be  glad  to  meet  a  line 
from  your  lordship,  appointing  the  time  and  place 
of  meeting.  If  it  would  be  agreeable  to  your  lord- 
ship, we  apprehend  that,  either  at  the  house  on 
Staten  Island,  opposite  to  Amboy,  or  at  the  gov- 
ernor's house  in  Amboy,  we  might  be  accommodated 
with  a  room  for  the  purpose.  With  the  greatest 
esteem  and  respect,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  my  lord, 
etc.,  B.  Franklin. 

*  See  Franklin  to  Howe,  above. 


144  The  Works  of  [1776 

FROM    LORD    HOWE 
''Eagle,"  off  Bedlow's  Island,  September  lo,  1776. 

Lord  Howe  presents  his  compliments  to  Dr. 
Franklin,  and  according  to  the  tenor  of  his  favor 
of  the  8th,  will  attend  to  have  the  pleasure  of  meet- 
ing him  and  Messrs.  Adams  and  Rutledge  to-morrow 
morning,  at  the  house  on  Staten  Island  opposite  to 
Amboy,  as  early  as  the  few  conveniences  for  travel- 
ling by  land  on  Staten  Island  will  admit.  Lord 
Howe  upon  his  arrival  at  the  place  appointed,  will 
send  a  boat  (if  he  can  procure  it  in  time),  with  a  flag 
of  truce,  over  to  Amboy;  and  requests  the  Doctor 
and  the  other  gentlemen  will  postpone  their  in- 
tended favor  of  passing  over  to  meet  him,  until 
they  are  informed  as  above  of  his  arrival  to  attend 
them  there. 

In  case  the  weather  should  prove  unfavorable 
for  Lord  Howe  to  pass  in  his  boat  to  Staten  Island 
to-morrow,  as  from  the  present  appearance  there 
is  some  reason  to  suspect,  he  will  take  the  next 
earliest  opportunity  that  offers  for  that  purpose. 
In  this  intention  he  may  be  further  retarded,  having 
been  an  invalid  lately;  but  will  certainly  give  the 
most  timely  notice  of  that  inability.  He,  however, 
flatters  himself  he  shall  not  have  occasion  to  make 
further  excuses  on  that  account.* 

"The  committee  being  arrived  at  Amboy,  opposite  to  the  island 
and  in  possession  of  the  Americans,  the  admiral  sent  over  his  barge  to 
receive  and  bring  them  to  him,  and  to  leave  one  of  his  principal  officers 
as  a  hostage  for  their  safe  return.  The  committee  of  Congress  had 
not  desired  a  hostage,  and  they  therefore  took  the  officer  back  with 
them.  The  admiral  met  them  at  their  landing,  and  conducted  them 
through  his  guards  to  a  convenient  room  for  conference. — W.  T.  F. 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  145 

In  Congress,  September  isth. — ^The  committee 
appointed  to  confer  with  Lord  Howe,  having  re- 
turned, made  a  verbal  report. 

Ordered,  that  they  make  a  report  in  writing,  as 
soon  as  conveniently  they  can. 

September  lyth. — The  committee  appointed  to  con- 
fer with  Lord  Howe,  agreeable  to  order,  brought  in  a 
report  in  writing,  which  was  read  as  follows : 

"  In  obedience  to  the  orders  of  Congress,  we  have 
had  a  meeting  with  Lord  Howe.  It  was  on  Wednes- 
day last,  upon  Staten  Island,  opposite  to  Amboy, 
where  bis  lordship  received  and  entertained  us  with 
the  utmost  politeness. 

"His  lordship  opened  the  conversation  by  ac- 
quainting us  that,  though  he  could  not  treat  with 
us  as  a  committee  of  Congress,  yet,  as  his  powers 
enabled  him  to  confer  and  consult  with  any  private 
gentlemen  of  influence  in  the  colonies,  on  the  means 
of  restoring  peace  between  the  two  countries,  he 
was  glad  of  this  opportunity  of  conferring  with 
us  on  that  subject,  if  we  thought  ourselves  at 
liberty  to  enter  into  a  conference  with  him  in  that 
character. 

"  We  observed  to  his  lordship  that,  as  our  business 
was  to  hear,  he  might  consider  us  in  what  light  he 
pleased,  and  communicate  to  us  any  proposition  he 
might  be  authorized  to  make  for  the  purpose  men- 
tioned; but  that  we  could  consider  ourselves  in  no 
other  character  than  that  in  which  we  were  placed 
by  order  of  Congress. 

"His  lordship  then  entered  into  a  discourse  of 
considerable   length,    which   contained   no    explicit 

VOL.  VII. — 10.  " 


146  The  Works  of  [1776 

proposition  of  peace  except  one,  namely,  that  the 
colonies  should  return  to  their  allegiance  and  obedi- 
ence to  the  government  of  Great  Britain.  The  rest 
consisted  principally  of  assurances  that  there  was 
an  exceeding  good  disposition  in  the  king  and  his 
ministers  to  make  that  government  easy  to  us, 
with  intimations  that  in  case  of  our  submis- 
sion they  would  cause  the  offensive  acts  of  Par- 
liament to  be  revised,  and  the  instructions  to 
governors  to  be  reconsidered;  that  so,  if  any  just 
causes  of  complaint  were  found  in  the  acts,  or  any 
errors  in  government  were  perceived  to  have  crept 
into  the  instructions,  they  might  be  amended  or 
withdrawn. 

"  We  gave  it  as  our  opinion  to  his  lordship  that  a 
return  to  the  domination  of  Great  Britain  was  not 
now  to  be  expected.  We  mentioned  the  repeated 
humble  petitions  of  the  colonies  to  the  king  and  Par- 
liament, which  had  been  treated  with  contempt,  and 
answered  only  by  additional  injuries;  the  unexam- 
pled patience  we  had  shown  under  their  tyrannical 
government;  and  that  it  was  not  till  the  last  act  of 
Parliament,  which  denounced  war  against  us,  and 
put  us  out  of  the  king's  protection,  that  we  declared 
our  independence;  that  this  declaration  had  been 
called  for  by  the  people  of  the  colonies  in  general; 
that  every  colony  had  approved  of  it,  when  made; 
and  all  now  considered  themselves  as  independent 
States,  and  were  settHng  or  had  settled  their  gov- 
ernments accordingly;  so  that  it  was  not  in  the 
power  of  Congress  to  agree  for  them  that  they  should 
return  to  their  former  dependent  state;    that  there 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  147 

was  no  doubt  of  their  inclination  to  peace,  and  their 
willingness  to  enter  into  a  treaty  with  Britain  that 
might  be  advantageous  to  both  countries;  that, 
though  his  lordship  had  at  present  no  power  to  treat 
with  them  as  independent  States,  he  might,  if  there 
was  the  same  good  disposition  in  Britain,  much  sooner 
obtain  fresh  powers  from  thence,  than  powers  could 
be  obtained  by  Congress  from  the  several  colonies  to 
consent  to  a  submission. 

"  His  lordship  then  saying  that  he  was  sorry  to 
find  that  no  accommodation  was  likely  to  take  place, 
put  an  end  to  the  conference. 

"  Upon  the  whole,  it  did  not  appear  to  your  com- 
mittee that  his  lordship's  commission  contained 
any  other  authority  of  importance  than  what  is 
expressed  in  the  act  of  Parliament,  namely,  that 
of  granting  pardons,  with  such  exceptions  as  the 
commissioners  shall  think  proper  to  make,  and  of 
declaring  America,  or  any  part  of  it,  to  be  in  the 
king's  peace,  upon  submission;  for,  as  to  the  power 
of  inquiring  into  the  state  of  America,  which  his 
lordship  mentioned  to  us,  and  of  conferring  and 
consulting  with  any  persons  the  commissioners 
might  think  proper,  and  representing  the  result  of 
such  conversation  to  the  ministry,  who,  provided 
the  colonies  would  subject  themselves,  might,  after 
all,  or  might  not,  at  their  pleasure,  make  any  alter- 
ations in  their  former  instructions  to  governors,  or 
propose  in  Parliament  any  amendment  of  the  acts 
complained  of,  we  apprehended  any  expectation 
from  the  effect  of  such  a  power  would  have  been 
too  uncertain   and  precarious  to   be   relied  on  by 


148  The  Works  of  [1776 

America,    had   she   still   continued   in  her  state  of 
dependence." 

Ordered  that  the  above  be  published. 

John  Hancock,  President. 

Attest,  Chas.  Thompson,  Secretary. 


DCXXV 

TO   THOMAS    MORRIS 

(Translated  ') 

AuRAY  IN  Brittany,  4  December,  1776. 

I  arrived  here  on  board  the  Reprisal,  Capt.  Wickes, 
now  at  anchor  in  Quiberon  Bay,  where  she  is  wait- 
ing for  wind  to  get  up  to  Nantes.  I  have  many 
letters  and  large  packages  for  you,  and  as  I  count 
upon  leaving  Nantes  by  post,  I  hope  to  have  the 
pleasure  of  delivering  them  to  you.  I  only  send 
one  of  them  now,  not  being  sure  that  the  others  will 
not  be  opened  at  the  post.  Besides,  they  will  cost 
you  very  dear.  If  our  friends  at  Nantes  think 
proper,  I  will  send  your  packages,  and  those  for 
Mr.  Deane,  by  express,  so  that  you  will  have  them 
almost  as  soon  as  if  sent  by  post. 

When  I  left,  our  armies  were  very  near  each  other, 
about  18  miles  from  New  York.  There  had  been  no 
general  action,  though  one  was  expected  every  day. 
In   various   skirmishes  our  forces  had  beaten  the 

^  This  letter  is  retranslated  from  a  French  translation  of  it  found 
among  the  archives  of  the  French  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs. — 
Editor. 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  149 

enemy  of  equal  or  superior  force,  and  our  army  is  full 
of  courage.  There  are  daily  arrivals  in  our  ports  of 
captures  made  from  the  enemy.  We  made  two  on 
our  passage  over  of  twenty  days.  ^ 


DCXXVI 

TO    SILAS    DEANE 

AuRAY  IN  Brittany,  4  December,  1776. 

I  have  just  arrived  on  board  the  Reprisal,  Captain 
Wickes,  a  small  vessel  of  war  belonging  to  Congress. 
We  are  in  Quiberon  Bay,  awaiting  a  favorable  wind 
to  go  on  to  Nantes.  We  left  the  Cape  the  29th  of 
October,  and  have  been  but  30  days  from  land  to 
land.  I  remained  on  board  three  days  after  we 
dropped  anchor,  hoping  to  be  able  to  go  up  to 
Nantes  in  our  ship,  but  the  wind  continuing  un- 
favorable, I  came  here  to  go  on  by  land  to 
Nantes. 

Congress  in  September  named  you,  Mr.  Jefferson, 
and  myself,  to  negotiate  a  treaty  of  commerce  and 
friendship  with  the  court  of  France.  Mr.  Jefferson, 
then  in  Virginia,  declined.  Thereupon  Mr.  Arthur 
Lee,  at  present  in  London,  was  named  in  his  place. 
Our  vessel  has  brought  indigo  for  the  account  of 

I  The  story  was  rife  in  Europe  that  Franklin  had  fled  from  America 
when  he  came  to  France  as  the  agent  of  the  colonies.  "I  never  will 
believe,"  said  Burke,  "that  he  is  going  to  conclude  a  long  Hfe,  which 
has  brightened  every  hour  it  has  continued,  with  so  foul  and  dishonor- 
able a  flight." 


150  The  Works  of  [1776 

Congress,  to  the  value  of  about  ;^3,ooo  sterHng, 
subject  to  our  order,  to  meet  our  expenses.  Con- 
gress has  appropriated,  in  addition,  ;;^7,ooo  for  the 
same  object,  which  the  committee  will  transmit  as 
soon  as  possible. 

I  find  myself  here  as  near  to  Paris  as  I  shall  be  at 
Nantes,  but  I  am  obliged  to  go  there  to  provide 
myself  with  money  for  my  journey,  and  to  get  my 
baggage,  which  was  left  on  the  ship.  I  shall  endeavor 
to  join  you  as  soon  as  possible.  I  propose  to  retain 
my  incognito  until  I  ascertain  whether  the  court  will 
receive  ministers  from  the  United  States.  I  have 
several  letters  for  you  from  the  committee,  which  I 
do  not  send  forward  because  I  know  they  contain 
matters  of  consequence,  and  I  am  not  certain  of  their 
safety  in  that  way.  Besides,  as  I  intend  to  take  the 
post  at  Nantes,  I  imagine  it  will  make  but  three  or 
four  days  difference.  We  fell  in  with  two  brigantines 
at  sea,  one  Irish  and  the  other  English,  which  we 
captured  and  brought  into  Nantes. 

I  do  not  know  that  the  captain  can  get  permission 
to  sell  them  here,  as  that  would  be  in  contradiction 
of  the  treaties  between  the  two  crowns.  They  are 
worth  about  £4,000.  We  have  had  a  tedious  pas- 
sage, and  I  am  weak,  but  hope  that  the  good  air 
which  I  breathe  on  land  will  soon  reestablish  me, 
that  I  may  travel  with  speed  to  join  you  in  Paris, 
and  there  find  you  in  good  health. 

P.  S. — If  you  could  find  some  means  to  notify  Mr. 
Lee  of  his  nomination,  it  would  be  well  to  do  so. 
Perhaps  the  best  way  would  be  through  the  Depart- 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  151 

ment  of  Foreign  affairs  and  the  French  Ambassador. 
The  regular  post  would  not  be  safe. 
I  beg  you  to  procure  lodgings  for  me." 


DCXXVII 

TO    M.    BARBEU    DUBOURG 

AuRAY  IN  Brittany,  4  December,  1776. 

My  dear  good  friend  will  be  much  surprised  to 
receive  a  letter  from  me  dated  in   France,   when 

'  This  letter  is  translated  from  a  copy  in  French  in  the  Archives  des 
Affaries  Etrangbres  at  Paris. 

Four  days  after  this  letter  was  despatched,  Mr.  Deane  addressed 
the  following  note  to  M.  de  Vergennes; 

"Paris,  December  8,  1776. 

"  Sir: — I  received  last  evening  a  letter  from  my  friend  Dr.  Franklin 
at  Nantes,  which  place  he  was  to  leave  last  Sunday  morning,  so  that 
I  expect  him  in  Paris  this  day  or  early  to-morrow.  Meantime  I  have 
and  shall  carefully  attend  to  the  hint  given  me,  and  am  confident  he 
will  do  the  same. 

"  His  arrival  is  the  common  topic  of  conversation  and  has  given 
birth  to  a  thousand  conjectures  and  reports,  not  one  of  which  I  have 
given  grotmd  for,  having  constantly  declared  that  I  am  ignorant  of  the 
motives  of  his  voyage.      I  have  the  honor  to  be.,  etc., 

"  Silas  Deane." 

Deane,  writing  to  the  Committee  of  Secret  Correspondence  on  the 
12th  Dec,  after  mentioning  the  receipt  of  Dr.  Franklin's  letter  an- 
nouncing his  arrival  at  Nantes,  adds:  "Nothing  has  for  a  long  time 
created  greater  speculation  than  this  event,  and  our  friends  here  are 
elated  beyond  measure,  as  this  confirms  them  you  will  not  negotiate 
with  England ;  and  for  me,  I  will  not  attempt  to  express  the  pleasiire 
I  feel  on  this  occasion,  as  it  removes  at  once  difficulties  under  which  I 
have  been  constantly  in  danger  of  sinking." — The  Diplomatic  Corre- 
spondence of  the  American  Revolution.  Vol.  I.,  p.  loi. 

The  hint  referred  to  in  Deane's  letter  to  Vergennes,  to  which  he  had 
attended  and  expected  Franklin  to  attend  to,  was  probably  given  him 
by  Vergennes,  at  their  first  interview,  when  Vergennes  told  that  the 
British  Ambassador  (Stormont)  knew  of  his,  Deane's,  arrival,  and  he 
therefore  advised  him  not  to  associate  with  Englishmen  more  than 
he  was  obliged  to,  as  he  doubted  not  Deane  would  have  many  spies 
on  his  conduct. — Editor. 


152  The  Works  of  [1776 

neither  of  us  had  been  expecting  such  a  thing.  I 
left  Philadelphia  the  26th  of  October,  on  a  vessel  of 
war  belonging  to  Congress,  and  in  thirty  days  dropped 
anchor  in  Quiberon  Bay.  On  our  voyage  we  cap- 
tured two  British  vessels  and  brought  them  with  us. 
Our  ship  is  destined  for  Nantes,  but  the  wind  being 
unfavorable  to  entering  the  Loire,  we  waited  some 
days  in  Quiberon  Bay,  until  becoming  impatient  to 
put  my  feet  on  the  land,  I  availed  myself  of  a  boat  to 
get  here,  whence  I  shall  go  by  land  to  Nantes,  where 
I  shall  probably  rest  for  a  few  days.  Learning  that 
the  post  leaves  here  this  evening,  I  seize  the  oppor- 
tunity to  salute  you,  as  well  as  my  dear  Madame 
Dubourg  and  Mesdlles.  Prehesson  and  Basseport, 
whom  I  hope  soon  to  have  the  pleasure  of  finding  in 
good  health. 

I  suppose  that  Messrs,  Deane  and  Morris  have  the 
honor  of  being  known  to  you,  and  as  I  do  not  know 
their  address,  I  take  the  liberty  of  addressing  each  of 
them  a  word  under  your  cover,  and  beg  you  to  trans- 
mit it  to  them.  I  shall  see  to  the  reimbursement  of 
your  expenses. 

I  see  that  you  have  had  bad  news  of  our  affairs  in 
America,  but  they  are  not  true.  The  British,  with 
the  assistance  of  their  ships,  have  gained  a  footing  in 
two  islands,  but  they  have  not  extended  their  foot- 
hold on  the  continent,  where  we  hold  them  at  a 
respectful  distance.  Our  armies  were  one  or  two 
miles  apart  when  I  left,  and  both  entrenched.  In 
different  skirmishes  which  had  occurred  lately  be- 
tween parties  of  five  hundred  and  a  thousand  men  on 
each  side,  we  have  always  had  the  advantage,  and 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  153 

have  driven  them  from  the  field  with  loss,  our  fire 
being  more  destructive  than  theirs.  On  the  sea 
we  have  seriously  molested  their  commerce,  taking 
large  numbers  of  their  ships  in  the  West  Indies, 
which  are  daily  brought  to  our  ports.  But  I  do  not 
care  to  dwell  upon  these  subjects  tintil  I  shall  have 
the  pleasure  of  seeing  you.^ 


DCXXVIII 

TO  JOHN  HANCOCK,  PRESIDENT  OF  CONGRESS  ^ 

Nantes,  8  December,  1776. 

Sir: — In  thirty  days  after  we  left  the  Capes  of 
Delaware  we  came  to  an  anchor  in  Quiberon  Bay. 
I  remained  on  board  four  days,  expecting  a  change 
of  wind  proper  to  carry  the  ship  into  the  river  Loire ; 
but  the  wind  seemed  fixed  in  an  opposite  quarter. 
I  landed  at  Auray,   and  with  some  difficulty  got 

^This  letter  is  translated  from  a  French  copy  in  the  Archives  des 
Affaires  Etrangeres  at  Paris. — Editor. 

2  In  March,  1776,  Mr.  Silas  Deane,  who  had  been  a  member  of  Con- 
gress, was  sent  to  France  by  the  Committee  of  Secret  Correspondence, 
to  act  as  a  political  and  commercial  agent  for  the  United  States.  On 
the  26th  of  September,  three  commissioners  were  appointed  by  Con- 
gress to  take  charge  of  the  American  affairs  in  Europe,  and  endeavor 
to  procure  a  treaty  of  alliance  with  the  court  of  France.  These  com- 
missioners were  Benjamin  FrankHn,  Silas  Deane,  and  Thomas  Jefferson. 
The  appointment  was  declined  by  Mr.  Jefferson  for  domestic  reasons, 
and  his  place  was  supplied  by  Arthur  Lee,  on  the  2 2d  of  October. 
Mr.  Lee  was  then  in  London  and  Mr.  Deane  in  Paris.  Dr.  Franklin 
sailed  from  Philadelphia  on  the  26th  of  October,  and  the  vessel  entered 
Qviiberon  Bay,  November  29th.  He  proceeded  thence  by  way  of 
Nantes  to  Paris,  where  he  arrived  about  the  20th  of  December,  and 
where  he  found  Mr.  Deane.  They  were  joined  by  Mr.  Lee  the  day 
after  Dr.  Franklin's  arrival. 


154  The  Works  of  [1776 

hither,  the  road  not  being  well  supplied  with  means 
of  conveyance.  Two  days  before  we  saw  land,  we 
met  a  brigantine  from  Bordeaux  belonging  to  Cork, 
and  another  from  Rochefort  belonging  to  Hull,  both 
of  which  were  taken.  The  first  had  on  board  staves, 
tar,  turpentine,  and  claret;  the  other  cognac  brandy 
and  flaxseed.  There  is  some  difficulty  in  determin- 
ing what  to  do  with  them;  as  they  are  scarce  worth 
sending  to  America,  and  the  mind  of  the  French 
court,  with  regard  to  prizes  brought  into  their  ports, 
is  not  yet  known.  It  is  certainly  contrary  to  their 
treaties  with  Britain  to  permit  the  sale  of  them,  and 
we  have  no  regular  means  of  trying  and  condemning 
them.  There  are,  however,  many  here  who  would 
purchase  prizes,  we  having  already  had  several  offers 
from  persons  who  are  willing  to  take  upon  themselves 
all  consequences  as  to  the  illegality.  Captain  Wickes, 
as  soon  as  he  can  get  his  refreshment,  intends  to  cruise 
in  the  Channel. 

Our  friends  in  France  have  been  a  good  deal 
dejected  with  the  Gazette  accounts  of  advantages 
obtained  against  us  by  the  British  troops.  I  have 
helped  them  here  to  recover  their  spirits  a  little,  by 
assuring  them,  that  we  still  face  the  enemy,  and 
were  under  no  apprehension  of  their  armies  being 
able  to  complete  their  junction.  I  understand  that 
Mr.  Lee  has  lately  been  at  Paris,  that  Mr.  Deane  is 
still  there,  and  that  an  underhand  supply  is  obtained 
from  the  government  of  two  hundred  brass  field- 
pieces,  thirty  thousand  firelocks,  and  some  other  mil- 
itary stores,  which  are  now  shipping  for  America,  and 
will  be  convoyed  by  a  ship  of  war.     The  court  of 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  155 

England  (M.  Penet  tells  me,  from  whom  I  had  the 
above  intelligence)  had  the  folly  to  demand  Mr. 
Deane  to  be  delivered  up,  but  were  refused. 

Our  voyage,  though  not  long,  was  rough,  and 
I  feel  myself  weakened  by  it;  but  I  now  recover 
strength  daily,  and  in  a  few  days  shall  be  able  to 
undertake  the  journey  to  Paris.  I  have  not  yet 
taken  any  public  character,  thinking  it  prudent  first 
to  know  whether  the  court  is  ready  and  willing  to  re- 
ceive ministers  publicly  from  the  Congress;  that  we 
may  neither  embarrass  it  on  the  one  hand,  nor  sub- 
ject ourselves  to  the  hazard  of  a  disgraceful  refusal  on 
the  other.  I  have  despatched  an  express  to  Mr. 
Deane,  with  the  letters  that  I  had  for  him  from  the 
committee  and  a  copy  of  our  commission,  that  he 
may  immediately  make  the  proper  inquiries,  and 
give  me  information.  In  the  meantime  I  find  it 
generally  supposed  here  that  I  am  sent  to  negotiate ; 
and  that  opinion  appears  to  give  great  pleasure,  if  I 
can  judge  by  the  extreme  civilities  I  meet  with  from 
numbers  of  the  principal  people  who  have  done  me 
the  honor  to  visit  me. 

I  have  desired  Mr.  Deane,  by  some  speedy  and 
safe  means,  to  give  Mr.  Lee  notice  of  his  appoint- 
ment. I  find  several  vessels  here  laden  with  military 
stores  for  America,  just  ready  to  sail.  On  the  whole, 
there  is  the  greatest  prospect  that  we  shall  be  well 
provided  for  another  campaign,  and  much  stronger 
than  we  were  last.  A  Spanish  fleet  has  sailed  with 
seven  thousand  land  forces  foot,  and  some  horse. 
Their  destination  is  unknown,  but  supposed  against 
the  Portuguese  in  Brazil,     Both  France  and  England 


156  The  Works  of  [1776 

are  preparing  strong  fleets,  and  it  is  said  that  all  the 
powers  of  Europe  are  preparing  for  war,  apprehend- 
ing that  a  general  one  cannot  be  very  far  distant. 
When  I  arrive  at  Paris,  I  shall  be  able  to  write  with 
more  certainty.  I  beg  you  to  present  my  duty  to 
Congress,  and  assure  them  of  my  most  faithful  en- 
deavors in  their  service.  With  the  sincerest  esteem 
and  respect  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


DCXXIX 

TO  THE  COMMITTEE  OF  SECRET  CORRESPONDENCE 

Nantes,  8  December,  1776. 

Gentlemen: — After  a  short  but  rough  passage  of 
thirty  days,  we  anchored  in  Quiberon  Bay,  the  wind 
not  suiting  to  enter  the  Loire.  Captain  Wickes  did 
every  thing  in  his  power  to  make  the  voyage  com- 
fortable to  me ;  and  I  was  much  pleased  with  what  I 
saw  of  his  conduct  as  an  officer,  when  on  supposed 
occasions  we  made  preparation  for  engagement,  the 
good  order  and  readiness  with  which  it  was  done 
being  far  beyond  my  expectations,  and  I  believe 
equal  to  any  thing  of  the  kind  in  the  best  ships  of  the 
king's  fleet.  He  seems  to  have  also  a  very  good  set 
of  officers  under  him.  I  hope  they  will  all  in  good 
time  be  promoted.  He  met,  and  took  two  prizes, 
brigantines,  one  belonging  to  Cork,  laden  with 
staves,  pitch,  tar,  turpentine,  and  claret ;  the  other, 
to  Hull,  with  a  cargo  of  flaxseed  and  brandy.  The 
captains  have  made  some  propositions  of  ransom. 


1776]  Benjamin  Franklin  157 

which,  perhaps,  may  be  accepted,  as  there  is  yet  no 
means  of  condemning  them  here,  and  they  are  scarce 
worth  sending  to  America.  The  ship  is  yet  in  Qui- 
beron  Bay  with  her  prizes.  I  came  hither  from 
thence,  seventy  miles,  by  land.  I  am  made  ex- 
tremely welcome  here,  where  America  has  many 
friends.  As  soon  as  I  have  recovered  strength 
enough  for  the  journey,  which  I  hope  will  be  in  a 
very  few  days,  I  shall  set  out  for  Paris.  My  letter 
to  the  President  will  inform  you  of  some  other  par- 
ticulars. With  great  esteem,  I  have  the  honor  to  be, 
etc.,  B.  Franklin. 

P.  S. — December  loth. — I  have  just  learned  that 
eighty  pieces  of  cannon,  all  brass,  with  carriages, 
braces,  and  every  thing  fit  for  immediate  service, 
were  embarked  in  a  frigate  from  Havre,  which  is 
sailed;  the  rest  were  to  go  in  another  frigate  of 
thirty-six  guns. 


DCXXX 

TO    THE    COUNT   DE    VERGENNES 

Paris,  23  December,  1776. 

Sir: — ^We  beg  leave  to  acquaint  your  Excellency 
that  we  are  appointed  and  fully  empowered  by  the 
Congress  of  the  United  States  of  America  to  propose 
and  negotiate  a  treaty  of  amity  and  commerce  be- 
tween France  and  the  United  States.  The  just 
and  generous  treatment  their  trading  ships  have  re- 
ceived by  a  free  admission  into  the  ports  of  this 
kingdom,  with  other  considerations  of  respect,  has 


158  The  Works  of  [1776 

induced  the  Congress  to  make  this  offer  first  to 
France.  We  request  an  audience  of  your  Excellency, 
wherein  we  may  have  an  opportunity  of  presenting 
our  credentials,  and  we  flatter  ourselves  that  the 
propositions  we  are  authorized  to  make  are  such  as 
will  not  be  found  unacceptable. 

With  the  greatest  regard,  we  have  the  honor  to  be. 
Your  Excellency's  most  obedient 
and  most  humble  servants, 

B.  Franklin, 
Silas  Deane, 
Arthur  Lee. 
His  Excellency,  the  Count 
DE  Vergennes. 

Endorsement 

The  original  of  the  above,  in  the  handwriting  of 
Dr.  Franklin,  is  in  the  archives  of  the  Ministry  of 
Foreign  Affairs  at  Paris,  where,  by  the  courtesy 
of  the  Duke  Decaze,  this  photograph  has  been  taken. 

E.  B.  Washburne. 
Legation  of  the  United  States, 
Paris,  July  16,  1887. 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  159 

DCXXXI 

COMPARISON  OF  GREAT  BRITAIN  AND  THE  UNITED 
STATES  IN  REGARD  TO  THE  BASIS  OF  CREDIT  IN  THE 
TWO    COUNTRIES  ' 

In  borrowing  money,  a  man's  credit  depends  on 
some,  or  all,  of  the  following  particulars. 

First.  His  known  conduct  respecting  former 
loans,  and  his  punctuality  in  discharging  them. 

Secondly.     His  industry. 

Thirdly.     His  frugality. 

Fourthly.  The  amount  and  certainty  of  his  in- 
come, and  the  freedom  of  his  estate  from  the  incum- 
brances of  prior  debts. 

Fifthly.  His  well-founded  prospects  of  greater 
future  ability,  by  the  improvement  of  his  estate  in 
value,  and  by  aids  from  others. 

Sixthly.  His  known  prudence  in  managing  his 
general  affairs,  and  the  advantage  they  will  probably 
receive  from  the  loan  which  he  desires. 

Seventhly.  His  known  probity  and  honest  char- 
acter, manifested  by  his  voluntary  discharge  of  debts, 
which  he  could  not  have  been  legally  compelled  to 
pay.  The  circumstances  which  give  credit  to  an  in- 
dividual, ought  to  have,  and  will  have  their  weight 
upon  the  lenders  of  money  to  public  bodies  or  nations. 

^  This  paper  was  written  in  the  year  1777,  while  Franklin  was  one  of 
the  Commissioners  of  the  United  States  in  France.  The  object  was  to 
produce  in  Europe  a  just  impression  of  the  resources  and  political  con- 
dition and  prospects  of  the  United  States,  with  the  view  of  encouraging 
governments  and  private  capitalists  to  loan  money  to  the  American 
Congress.  It  was  translated  into  various  languages  and  widely  cir- 
culated.— Editor. 


i6o  The  Works  of  [1777 

If  then  we  consider  and  compare  Britain  and  America 
in  these  several  particulars,  upon  the  question,  "To 
which  is  it  safest  to  lend  money?"  we  shall  find: 

1.  Respecting  former  loans,  that  America,  who 
borrowed  ten  millions  during  the  last  war,  for  the 
maintenance  of  her  army  of  twenty-five  thousand 
men  and  other  charges,  had  faithfully  discharged 
and  paid  that  debt,  and  all  her  other  debts,  in  1772. 
Whereas  Britain,  during  those  ten  years  of  peace  and 
profitable  commerce,  had  made  little  or  no  reduction 
of  her  debt;  but,  on  the  contrary,  from  time  to  time, 
diminished  the  hopes  of  her  creditors  by  a  wanton 
diversion  and  misapplication  of  the  sinking  fund 
destined  for  discharging  it. 

2.  Respecting  industry;  every  man  in  America  is 
employed;  the  greater  part  in  cultivating  their  own 
lands,  the  rest  in  handicrafts,  navigation,  and  com- 
merce. An  idle  man  there,  is  a  rarity;  idleness  and 
inutility  are  disgraceful.  In  England  the  number  of 
that  character  is  immense ;  fashion  has  spread  it  far 
and  wide.  Hence  the  embarrassments  of  private 
fortunes,  and  the  daily  bankruptcies,  arising  from  a 
universal  fondness  for  appearance  and  for  expensive 
pleasures;  and  hence,  in  some  degree,  the  misman- 
agement of  public  business;  for  habits  of  business, 
and  ability  in  it,  are  acquired  only  by  practice;  and, 
where  universal  dissipation  and  the  perpetual  pursuit 
of  amusement  are  the  mode,  the  youth  educated  in  it 
can  rarely  afterwards  acquire  that  patient  attention 
and  close  application  to  affairs,  which  are  so  neces- 
sary to  a  statesman  charged  with  the  care  of  national 
welfare.     Hence  their  frequent  errors  in  policy,  and 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  i6i 

hence  the  weariness  at  public  councils,  and  back- 
wardness in  going  to  them,  the  constant  unwilling- 
ness to  engage  in  any  measure  that  reqmres  thought 
and  consideration,  and  the  readiness  for  postponing 
every  new  proposition;  which  postponing  is,  there- 
fore, the  only  part  of  business  they  come  to  be  expert 
in,  an  expertness  produced  necessarily  by  so  much 
daily  practice.  Whereas,  in  America,  men  bred  to 
close  employment  in  their  private  affairs  attend  with 
ease  to  those  of  the  public  when  engaged  in  them,  and 
nothing  fails  through  negligence. 

3.  Respecting  frugality;  the  manner  of  living  in 
America  is  more  simple  and  less  expensive  than  in 
England;  plain  tables,  plain  clothing,  and  plain  fur- 
niture in  houses  prevail,  with  few  carriages  of  pleas- 
ure. There  an  expensive  appearance  hurts  credit, 
and  is  avoided;  in  England  it  is  often  assumed  to 
gain  credit,  and  continued  to  ruin.  Respecting  pub- 
lic affairs,  the  difference  is  still  greater.  In  England 
the  salaries  of  officers  and  emoluments  of  office  are 
enormous.  The  king  has  a  million  sterling  per  an- 
num, and  yet  cannot  maintain  his  family  free  of 
debt  ^  ;  secretaries  of  state,  lords  of  the  treasury, 
admiralty,  etc.,  have  vast  appointments;  an  auditor 
of  the  exchequer  has  sixpence  in  the  poimd,  or  a 
fortieth  part  of  all  the  pubhc  money  expended  by 

I  On  the  13th  of  April  of  this  year,  Lord  Worth  had  asked  for  and  ob- 
tained from  Parliament  $3,000,000  to  liquidate  the  pressing  demands 
of  his  sovereign,  and  an  addition  of  $500,000  to  his  yearly  income. 
Many  of  the  tradesmen  who  supplied  the  palace  with  common  neces- 
saries had  not  been  paid  for  years.  The  coal  merchant's  bill  had 
reached  $30,000.  Charles  Knight  says  the  annual  expense  for  wax 
candles  was  $50,000.  The  menial  servants  were  nearly  two  years 
in  arrears.     The  king  had  received  $4,000,000  annually  ever  since  his 

VOL.  VII. II. 


i62  The  Works  of  [1777 

the  nation,  so  that,  when  a  war  costs  forty  millions, 
one  million  is  paid  to  him ;  an  inspector  of  the  mint, 
in  the  last  new  coinage,  received  as  his  fee  ;^65,ooo 
sterling  per  annum;  to  all  which  rewards  no  service 
these  gentlemen  can  render  the  public,  is  by  any 
means  equivalent.  All  this  is  paid  by  the  people, 
who  are  oppressed  by  taxes  so  occasioned,  and 
thereby  rendered  less  able  to  contribute  to  the  pay- 
ment of  necessary  national  debts.  In  America, 
salaries,  where  indispensable,  are  extremely  low; 
but  much  of  the  public  business  is  done  gratis.  The 
honor  of  serving  the  public  ably  and  faithfully  is 
deemed  sufficient.  Public  spirit  really  exists  there, 
and  has  great  effects.  In  England  it  is  universally 
deemed  a  nonentity,  and  whoever  pretends  to  it  is 
laughed  at  as  a  fool,  or  suspected  as  a  knave.  The 
committees  of  Congress,  which  form  the  board  of 
war,  the  board  of  treasury,  the  board  of  foreign 
affairs,  the  naval  board,  that  for  accounts,  etc.,  all 
attend  the  business  of  their  respective  functions  with- 
out any  salary  or  emolument  whatever,  though  they 
spend  in  it  much  more  of  their  time  than  any  lord  of 
the  treasury  or  admiralty  in  England  can  spare  from 
his  amusements.  A  British  minister  lately  com- 
puted, that  the  whole  expense  of  the  Americans  in 

accession.  No  one  knew  where  it  had  gone.  No  vouchers  were  pro- 
duced, nor  were  any  audit  books  kept,  apparently.  The  royal  estab- 
lishment swarmed  with  officers  for  whom  it  was  difficult  to  find  names. 
Among  the  satellites  aulae  was  one  who  was  dignified  with  the  title  of 
"Turnspit  of  the  King's  Kitchen."  It  was  suspected  that  no  incon- 
siderable part  of  the  king's  debts  had  been  incurred  in  Parliamentary 
corruption.  It  was  also  whispered  that  some  of  the  money  was  sent 
to  France  to  corrupt  the  French  ministers,  especially  Vergennes,  who 
was  suspected  of  being  a  pensioner  of  Lord  Stormont. — Editor. 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  163 

their  civil  government,  over  three  millions  of  people, 
amounted  to  but  ;^7 0,000  sterling,  and  drew  from 
thence  a  conclusion,  that  they  ought  to  be  taxed 
until  their  expense  was  equal  in  proportion  to  that 
which  it  costs  Great  Britain  to  govern  eight  millions. 
He  had  no  idea  of  a  contrary  conclusion,  that,  if  three 
millions  may  be  well  governed  for  ;^7 0,000,  eight 
millions  may  be  well  governed  for  three  times  that 
sum,  and  that  therefore  the  expense  of  his  own  gov- 
ernment should  be  diminished.  In  that  corrupted 
nation,  no  man  is  ashamed  of  being  concerned  in 
lucrative  government  jobs,  in  which  the  pubhc  money 
is  egregiously  misapplied  and  squandered,  the  treas- 
ury pillaged,  and  more  numerous  and  heavy  taxes 
accumulated,  to  the  great  oppression  of  the  people. 
But  the  prospect  of  a  greater  number  of  such  jobs 
by  a  war,  is  an  inducement  with  many  to  cry  out 
for  war  upon  all  occasions,  and  to  oppose  every  pro- 
position of  peace.  Hence  the  constant  increase  of 
the  national  debt,  and  the  absolute  improbability 
of  its  ever  being  discharged. 

4.  Respecting  the  amount  and  certainty  of  income, 
and  solidity  of  security;  the  whole  thirteen  States  of 
America  are  engaged  for  the  payment  of  every  debt 
contracted  by  the  Congress,  and  the  debt  to  be  con- 
tracted by  the  present  war  is  the  only  debt  they  will 
have  to  pay;  all,  or  nearly  all  the  former  debts  of 
particular  colonies  being  already  discharged ;  where- 
as England  will  have  to  pay,  not  only  the  enormous 
debt  this  war  must  occasion,  but  all  their  vast  pre- 
ceding debt,  or  the  interest  of  it;  and,  while  Amer- 
ica is  enriching  itself  by  prizes  made  upon  the  British 


1 64  The  Works  of  [1777 

commerce,  more  than  it  ever  did  by  any  commerce  of 
its  own,  under  the  restraints  of  a  British  monopoly, 
Britain  is  growing  poorer  by  the  diminution  of  its 
revenues,  and  of  course  less  able  to  discharge  the 
present  indiscreet  increase  of  its  expenses. 

5.  Respecting  prospects  of  greater  future  ability, 
Britain  has  none  such.  Her  islands  are  circum- 
scribed by  the  ocean;  and,  excepting  a  few  parks  or 
forests,  she  has  no  new  land  to  cultivate,  and  cannot 
therefore  extend  her  improvements.  Her  numbers, 
too,  instead  of  increasing  from  increased  subsistence, 
are  continually  diminishing  from  growing  luxury,  and 
the  increasing  difficulties  of  maintaining  families, 
which  of  course  discourage  early  marriages.  Thus 
she  will  have  fewer  people  to  assist  in  paying  her 
debts,  and  that  diminishing  number  will  be  poorer. 
America,  on  the  contrary,  has,  besides  her  lands 
already  cultivated,  a  vast  territory  yet  to  be  culti- 
vated; which,  being  cultivated,  continually  in- 
creases in  value  with  the  increase  of  people;  and 
the  people,  who  double  themselves  by  a  natural 
propagation  every  twenty-five  years,  will  double 
yet  faster  by  the  accession  of  strangers,  as  long  as 
lands  are  to  be  had  for  new  families;  so  that  every 
twenty  years  there  will  be  a  double  number  of  in- 
habitants obliged  to  discharge  the  public  debts; 
and  those  inhabitants,  being  more  opulent,  may  pay 
their  shares  with  greater  ease. 

6.  Respecting  prudence  in  general  affairs,  and  the 
advantages  to  be  expected  from  the  loan  desired,  the 
Americans  are  cultivators  of  land;  those  engaged  in 
fishery  and  commerce  are  few,  compared  with  the 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  165 

others.  They  have  ever  conducted  their  several 
governments  with  wisdom,  avoiding  wars  and  vain, 
expensive  projects,  delighting  only  in  their  peaceable 
occupations,  which  must,  considering  the  extent  of 
their  uncultivated  territory,  find  them  employment 
still  for  ages.  Whereas  England,  ever  imquiet,  am- 
bitious, avaricious,  imprudent,  and  quarrelsome,  is 
half  of  the  time  engaged  in  war,  always  at  an  expense 
infinitely  greater  than  the  advantages  to  be  obtained 
by  it,  if  successful.  Thus  they  made  war  against 
Spain  in  1739,  for  a  claim  of  about  ;^95,ooo  (scarce  a 
groat  for  each  individual  of  the  nation),  and  spent 
forty  millions  sterling  in  the  war,  and  the  lives  of 
fifty  thousand  men ;  and  finally  made  peace  without 
obtaining  satisfaction  for  the  sum  claimed.  Indeed, 
there  is  scarce  a  nation  in  Europe,  against  which  she 
has  not  made  war  on  some  frivolous  pretext  or  other, 
and  thereby  imprudently  accumulated  a  debt  that 
has  brought  her  on  the  verge  of  bankruptcy.  But 
the  most  indiscreet  of  all  her  wars  is  the  present 
against  America,  with  whom  she  might  for  ages  have 
preserved  her  profitable  connection  only  by  a  just 
and  equitable  conduct.  She  is  now  acting  like  a 
mad  shopkeeper,  who,  by  beating  those  that  pass  his 
doors,  attempts  to  make  them  come  in  and  be  his 
customers.  America  cannot  submit  to  such  treat- 
ment, without  first  being  ruined,  and,  being  ruined, 
her  custom  will  be  worth  nothing.  England,  to 
effect  this,  is  increasing  her  debt,  and  irretrievably 
ruining  herself.  America,  on  the  other  hand,  aims 
only  to  estabHsh  her  liberty,  and  that  freedom  of 
commerce  which  will  be  advantageous  to  all  Europe ; 


i66  The  Works  of  [1777 

and,  by  abolishing  that  monopoly  which  she  labored 
under,  she  will  profit  infinitely  more  than  enough  to 
repay  any  debt  which  she  may  contract  to  accom- 
plish it. 

7.  Respecting  character  in  the  honest  payment  of 
debts,  the  punctuality  with  which  America  has  dis- 
charged her  public  debts  was  shown  under  the  first 
head.  And  the  general  good  disposition  of  the 
people  to  such  punctuality  has  been  manifested  in 
their  faithful  payment  of  private  debts  to  England, 
since  the  commencement  of  this  war.  There  were 
not  wanting  some  politicians  (in  America),  who  pro- 
posed stopping  that  payment,  until  peace  should  be 
restored,  alleging  that,  in  the  usual  course  of  com- 
merce, and  of  the  credit  given,  there  was  always  a 
debt  existing  equal  to  the  trade  of  eighteen  months ; 
that,  the  trade  amounting  to  five  millions  sterling  per 
annum,  the  debt  must  be  seven  millions  and  a  half; 
that  this  sum  paid  to  the  British  merchants  would 
operate  to  prevent  that  distress  intended  to  be 
brought  upon  Britain  by  our  stoppage  of  commerce 
with  her;  for  the  merchants,  receiving  this  money, 
and  no  orders  with  it  for  further  supplies,  would 
either  lay  it  out  in  public  funds,  or  in  employing 
manufacturers  to  accumulate  goods  for  a  future 
hungry  market  in  America  upon  an  expected  accom- 
modation, by  which  means  the  funds  would  be  kept 
up  and  the  manufacturers  prevented  from  murmur- 
ing. But  against  this  it  was  alleged  that  injuries 
from  ministers  should  not  be  revenged  on  merchants, 
that  the  credit  was  in  consequence  of  private  con- 
tracts made  in  confidence  of  good  faith;   that  these 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  167 

ought  to  be  held  sacred  and  faithfully  complied  with ; 
for  that,  whatever  public  utility  might  be  supposed 
to  arise  from  a  breach  of  private  faith,  it  was  imjust, 
and  would  in  the  end  be  found  unwise,  honesty  being 
in  truth  the  best  policy.  On  this  principle  the  prop- 
osition was  universally  rejected  ;  and  though  the 
English  prosecuted  the  war  with  unexampled  bar- 
barity, burning  our  defenceless  towns  in  the  midst 
of  winter,  and  arming  savages  against  us,  the  debt 
was  punctually  paid,  and  the  merchants  of  London 
have  testified  to  the  Parhament,  and  will  testify  to 
all  the  world,  that  from  their  experience  in  dealing 
with  us  they  had,  before  the  war,  no  apprehension 
of  our  unfairness,  and  that,  since  the  war,  they  have 
been  convinced  that  their  good  opinion  of  us  was 
well  founded.  England,  on  the  contrary,  an  old, 
corrupt  government,  extravagant  and  profligate 
nation,  sees  herself  deep  in  debt,  which  she  is  in  no 
condition  to  pay,  and  yet  is  madly  and  dishonestly 
running  deeper,  without  any  possibiHty  of  discharg- 
ing her  debt  but  by  a  public  bankruptcy. 

It  appears,  therefore,  from  the  general  industry, 
frugality,  ability,  prudence,  and  virtue  of  America, 
that  she  is  a  much  safer  debtor  than  Britain ;  to  say 
nothing  of  the  satisfaction  generous  minds  must  have 
in  reflecting  that  by  loans  to  America  they  are  oppos- 
ing tyranny,  and  aiding  the  cause  of  liberty,  which  is 
the  cause  of  all  mankind. 


1 68  The  Works  of  [1777 

DCXXXII 

TO    THE    COMMITTEE    OF    SECRET    CORRESPONDENCE 

Paris,  4  January,  1777. 

Gentlemen: — I  arrived  here  about  two  weeks 
since,  where  I  found  Mr.  Deane.  Mr.  Lee  has  since 
joined  us  from  London.  We  have  had  an  audience 
of  the  minister,  Count  de  Vergennes,  and  were  re- 
spectfully received.  We  left  for  his  consideration  a 
sketch  of  the  proposed  treaty.  We  are  to  wait  upon 
him  to-morrow,  with  a  strong  memorial,  requesting 
the  aids  mentioned  in  our  instructions.  By  his  ad- 
vice, we  have  had  an  interview  with  the  Spanish  Am- 
bassador, Count  d'Aranda,  who  seems  well  disposed 
towards  us,  and  will  forward  copies  of  our  memorials 
to  his  court,  which  will  act,  he  says,  in  perfect  con- 
cert with  this. 

Their  fleets  are  said  to  be  in  fine  order,  manned 
and  fit  for  sea.  The  cry  of  the  nation  is  for  us,  but 
the  court,  it  is  thought,  views  an  approaching  war 
with  reluctance.  The  press  continues  in  England. 
As  soon  as  we  can  receive  a  positive  answer  from 
these  courts,  we  shall  despatch  an  express  with  it.  I 
am,  gentlemen,  etc.,  B.  Franklin. 


DCXXXIII 

TO    MRS.    MARY    HEWSON 

Paris,  12  January,  1777. 

My  Dear,  Dear  Polly: — Figure  to  yourself  an 
old  man  with  gray  hair  appearing  under  a  martin 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  169 

fur  cap,  among  the  powdered  heads  of  Paris.  It  is 
this  odd  figure  that  salutes  you,  with  handfuls  of 
blessings  on  you  and  your  dear  little  ones. ' 

On  my  arrival  here,  Mademoiselle  Biheron  gave 
me  great  pleasure  in  the  perusal  of  a  letter  from  you 
to  her.  It  acquainted  me  that  you  and  yours  were 
well  in  August  last.  I  have  with  me  here  my  young 
grandson,  Benjamin  Franklin  Bache,  a  special  good 
boy.  I  shall  give  him  a  little  French  language  and 
address,  and  then  send  him  over  to  pay  his  respects 
to  Miss  Hewson.  My  love  to  all  that  love  you,  par- 
ticularly to  dear  Dolly.  I  am  ever,  my  dear  friend, 
your  affectionate  B.  Franklin. 

P.  S. — Temple,  who  attends  me  here,  presents  his 
respects.  I  must  contrive  to  get  you  to  America.  I 
want  all  my  friends  out  of  that  wicked  country.  I 
have  just  seen  in  the  paper  seven  paragraphs  about 
me,  of  which  six  were  lies. 

I  The  following  description  of  Dr.  Franklin's  personal  appearance 
was  given  by  the  French  police  only  three  days  after  this  letter  was 
written. 

"Doctor  Franklin,  who  lately  arrived  in  this  country  from  the  English 
colonies,  is  very  much  run  after,  and  f^ted,  not  only  by  his  fellow 
savants,  but  by  all  who  can  get  hold  of  him;  for  he  is  difficult  to  be 
approached  and  lives  in  a  seclusion  which  is  supposed  to  be  at  the 
instance  of  the  government.  This  Quaker  wears  the  full  costume  of 
his  sect.  He  has  an  agreeable  physiognomy;  spectacles  always  on 
his  eyes;  but  Httle  hair, — a  fur  cap  is  always  on  his  head.  He  wears 
no  powder;  tidy  in  his  dress;  very  white  linen.  His  only  defence  is 
a  walking-stick.  If  he  sees  our  ministers  it  is  at  Paris,  at  night,  and  in 
the  greatest  secrecy;  but  he  has  frequent  conference  with  the  Sieurs 
de  Beaumarchais  and  le  Ray  de  Chaumont.  The  first  of  these  is  the 
pet  of  Madame  de  Maurepas,  and  probably  fetches  and  carries  for 
her." 


I70  The  Works  of  [1777 

DCXXXIV 

TO    JULIANA    RITCHIE 

Paris,  19  January,  1777. 

Madam: — I  am  much  obliged  to  you  for  your 
kind  attention  to  my  welfare  in  the  information  you 
give  me.  I  have  no  doubt  of  its  being  well  founded, 
but  as  it  is  impossible  to  discover  in  every  case  the 
falsity  of  pretended  friends  who  would  know  our 
affairs,  and  more  so  to  prevent  being  watched  by 
spies  when  interested  people  may  think  proper  to 
place  them  for  that  purpose,'  I  have  long  observed 
one  rule  which  prevents  any  inconvenience  from 
such  practices.  It  is  simply  this — to  be  concerned  in 
no  affairs  that  I  would  blush  to  have  made  public, 
and  to  do  nothing  but  what  spies  may  see  and  wel- 
come. When  a  man's  actions  are  just  and  honorable, 
the  more  they  are  known,  the  more  his  reputation  is 
increased  and  estabHshed.  If  I  was  sure,  therefore, 
that  my  valet  de  place  was  a  spy,  as  probably  he  is,  I 
think  I  should  not  discharge  him  for  that,  if  in  other 
respects  I  liked  him.  The  various  conjectures  you 
mention  concerning  my  business  here  must  have 
their  course.  They  amuse  those  that  make  them 
and  some  of  those  that  hear  them;  they  do  me  no 
harm,  and  therefore  it  is  not  necessary  that  I  should 
take  the  least  pain^  to  rectify  them.  I  am  glad  to 
learn  that  3^ou  are  in  a  situation  that  is  agreeable  to 
you,  and  that  Mr.  Ritchie  was  lately  well.  My 
daughter  and  her  children  were  so  when  I  left  them, 

I  The  French  Government  gave  special  orders  to  the  police  to  protect 
Dr.  Franklin. 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  171 

but  I  have  lost  my  dear  Mrs.  Franklin,  now  two 
years  since.  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  very  respect- 
fully, etc.,  B.  Franklin. 


DCXXXV 

TO    THE    PRESIDENT    OF    CONGRESS 

Paris,  20  January,  1777. 

Dear  Sir: — The  bearer.  Captain  Balm,  is  strongly 
recommended  to  me  as  a  very  able  officer  of  horse, 
and  capable  of  being  extremely  useful  to  us  in  form- 
ing a  body  of  men  for  that  service.  As  he  has  other- 
wise an  excellent  character,  I  take  the  liberty  of 
recommending  him  to  my  friends  as  a  stranger  of 
merit,  worthy  of  their  civilities,  and  to  Congress  as 
an  officer,  who,  if  employed,  may  greatly  serve  a 
cause  which  he  has  sincerely  at  heart  With  great 
respect,  etc.,  B.  Franklin. 


DCXXXVI 


TO    MR.    T.    MORRIS 


Paris,  26  January,  1777. 

Sir: — ^We  have  expected  some  remittances  from 
you  to  our  credit,  in  consequence  of  the  sales  which 
have  been  made  at  Nantes.  You  must  be  sensible 
how  very  unbecoming  it  is  of  the  situation  we  are  in, 
to  be  dependent  on  the  credit  of  others.  We  there- 
fore desire  that  you  will  remit  with  all  possible  ex- 
pedition the  sum  allotted  by  the  Congress  for  our 
expenses. 


172  The  Works  of  [1777 

DCXXXVII 

INSTRUCTIONS    TO    CAPT.    NICHOLSON 

Paris,  26  January,  1777. 

Sir: — You  are  directed  to  proceed  to  Boulogne, 
and  there  purchase,  on  as  good  terms  as  possible, 
a  cutter  suitable  for  the  purpose  of  being  sent  to 
America.  The  purchase  being  made,  despatch  the 
vessel  to  Havre  de  Grace  to  the  care  of  Mons.  Limo- 
zin,  and  agree  in  the  bargain  to  have  her  delivered, 
at  said  port,  at  the  risk  and  expense  of  the  original 
owner,  at  which  stipulate  to  make  the  payment. 
Should  you  miss  of  one  at  Boulogne,  proceed  to 
Calais,  and  pursue  the  same  directions.  If  you  fail 
there,  pass  to  Dover,  or  Deal,  and  employ  a  person 
there  to  make  the  purchase  as  for  Mr.  Limozin  of 
Nantes,  at  whose  house  the  payment  shall  be  made. 
Your  skill  in  maritime  affairs  will  enable  you  to 
judge  of  the  vessel  proper  for  our  purpose,  in  which 
we  wish  you  to  embark  yourself  for  Havre,  and  on 
your  arrival,  put  the  vessel  into  the  care  of  Mr. 
Limozin,  to  be  filled  with  every  thing  necessary  for 
her  to  proceed  the  designed  voyage,  at  the  same  time 
directing  Mr.  Limozin  to  call  her  and  speak  of  her  as 
his  own, — after  which  you  will  instantly  set  off,  for 
this  place,  to  inform  us  of  your  proceedings.  Mean- 
time you  are,  on  purchasing,  to  write,  first  post,  not 
to  us,  but  to  Mr.  Le  Grand,  Bang:  rue  Mons  Mart, 
vis-h-vis,  St.  Joseph  a  Paris,  only  saying  in  a  few 
words  that  you  have  made  a  purchase,  and  shall  draw 
on  him  soon  for  the  money  favor  of  Mr.  Limozin,  or 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  173 

words  to  that  purpose.     This  letter  will  be  shown  us, 
and  we  shall  regulate  our  proceedings  accordingly. 

Should  you  be  obliged,  on  purchasing,  to  pay  at 
Dover,  or  Deal,  Mons.  Le  Grand's  letter  will  give  a 
sufficient  credit  for  the  purpose,  and  at  Calais,  or 
Boulogne,  you  will  address  yourself,  on  the  score  of 
advice  and  assistance  in  money  matters,  to  the  per- 
sons to  whom  you  will  have  letters  directed,  but  on  no 
other  account,  and  avoid  hinting  your  proceedings  or 
views  to  any  one.  But  should  Capt.  Hynsen  arrive 
from  London  and  you,  let  him  go  in  the  vessel  you 
purchase  to  Havre  and  there  wait  our  further  orders. 
Should  he  arrive  and  no  vessel  be  purchased,  in  such 
case  procure  him  a  passage  to  Havre,  and  direct  him 
to  apply  to  Mr.  Limozin  for  our  directions.  In  the 
whole,  we  have  to  wish  you  to  make  the  utmost  de- 
spatch, and  to  conduct  with  the  utmost  secrecy  and 
the  economy  consistent  with  hastening  as  fast  as  pos- 
sible, the  object  in  view. 


Dcxxxvni 

SUPPOSED   TO    BE    TO    M.    MONTAUDOIN 

Paris,  26  January,  1777. 

Sir: — We  are  very  much  obliged  to  you  for  the 
information  contained  in  yours  of  the  21st. 

Mr.  Williams'  ^  good  sense  will  prevent  him  from 
being  materially  embarrassed  by  any  manoeuvre  em- 
ployed to  make  him  counteract  our  instructions. 

^  Mr.  Jonathan  Williams,  Jr.,  who  was  about  this  time  appointed 
commercial  agent  of  Congress  at  the  port  of  Nantes. 


174  The  Works  of  [1777 

We  cannot  so  entirely  comprehend  this  obligation 
we  have  to  the  mayor  and  aldermen  of  your  city,  as 
to  know  in  what  terms  to  return  it.  As  it  is  probable 
one  of  our  number  will  soon  be  in  Nantes,  he  will 
be  able  to  thank  them  in  person.  In  the  meantime 
we  beg  the  favor  of  you,  sir,  to  make  them  our 
acknowledgments  in  such  manner  as  you  may  think 
becoming.  We  have  the  honor  to  be,  with  very 
great  esteem,   sir,      Your  most  obedient  servants. 


DCXXXIX 


TO   MRS.    MARY    HEWSON 


Paris,  26  January,  1777 

Dear  Polly: — I  wrote  a  few  lines  to  you  by  Dr. 

B ,  and  have  since  seen  your  letter  to  Jonathan, 

by  which  I  have  the  great  pleasure  of  learning  that 
you  and  yours  were  well  on  the  1 7th. 

What  has  become  of  my  and  your  dear  Dolly? 
Have  you  parted?  for  you  mention  nothing  of  her. 
I  know  your  friendship  continues;  but  perhaps  she 
is  with  one  of  her  brothers.     How  do  they  all  do  ? 

I  have  not  yet  received  a  line  from  my  dear  old 
friend,  your  mother.  Pray  tell  me  where  she  is,  and 
how  it  is  with  her.  Jonathan,  who  is  now  at  Nantes, 
told  me  that  she  had  a  lodging  in  Northumberland 
Court.  I  doubt  her  being  comfortably  accommo- 
dated there.  Is  Miss  Barwell  a  little  more  at  rest, 
or  as  busy  as  ever?  Is  she  well?  And  how  fares 
it  with  our  good  friends  of  the  Henckell  family  ? 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  175 

But,  principally,  I  want  to  know  how  it  is  with  you. 
I  hear  you  have  not  quite  settled  yet  with  those  peo- 
ple. I  hope,  however,  that  you  have  a  sufficient  in- 
come, and  live  at  your  ease,  and  that  your  money  is 
safe  out  of  the  funds.  Does  my  godson  remember 
any  thing  of  his  Doctor  papa  ?  I  suppose  not.  Kiss 
the  dear  little  fellow  for  me;  not  forgetting  the 
others.  I  long  to  see  them  and  you.  What  became 
of  the  lottery  ticket  I  left  with  your  good  mother, 
which  was  to  produce  the  diamond  ear-rings  for  you  ? 
Did  you  get  them?  If  not.  Fortune  has  wronged 
you,  for  you  ought  to  have  had  them.  I  am,  my  dear 
friend,  ever  yours  with  sincere  esteem  and  affection, 

B.  Franklin. 

P.  S. — January  2'jth. — ^They  tell  me  that  in  writing 
to  a  lady  from  Paris,  one  should  always  say  some- 
thing about  the  fashions.  Temple  observes  them 
more  than  I  do.  He  took  notice  that  at  the  ball  in 
Nantes  there  were  no  heads  less  than  five,  and  a  few 
were  seven  lengths  of  the  face  above  the  top  of  the 
forehead.  You  know  that  those  who  have  practised 
drawing,  as  he  has,  attend  more  to  proportions  than 
people  in  common  do.  Yesterday  we  dined  at  the 
Duke  de  Rochefoucauld's,  where  there  were  three 
duchesses  and  a  countess,  and  no  head  higher  than  a 
face  and  a  half.  So,  it  seems,  the  farther  from  court 
the  more  extravagant  the  mode. 


176  The  Works  of  [1777 

DCXL 

TO    JOSEPH    PRIESTLEY 

Paris,  27  January,  1777. 

Dear  Sir: — I  received  your  very  kind  letter  of 
February  last  some  time  in  September.  Major 
Carleton,  who  was  so  kind  as  to  forward  it  to  me, 
had  not  an  opportunity  of  doing  it  sooner.  I  re- 
joice to  hear  of  your  continual  progress  in  those  use- 
ful discoveries.  I  find  that  you  have  set  all  the 
philosophers  of  Europe  at  work  upon  fixed  air;  and 
it  is  with  great  pleasure  I  observe  how  high  you  stand 
in  their  opinion;  for  I  enjoy  my  friends'  fame  as  my 
own. 

The  hint  you  gave  me  jocularly,  that  you  did  not 
quite  despair  of  the  philosopher's  stone,  draws  from 
me  a  request  that,  when  you  have  found  it,  you  will 
take  care  to  lose  it  again;  for  I  believe,  in  my  con- 
science, that  mankind  are  wicked  enough  to  continue 
slaughtering  one  another  as  long  as  they  can  find 
money  to  pay  the  butchers.  But  of  all  the  wars  in 
my  time,  this  on  the  part  of  England  appears  to  me 
the  wickedest,  having  no  cause  but  malice  against 
liberty,  and  the  jealousy  of  commerce.  And  I  think 
the  crime  seems  likely  to  meet  with  its  proper  pun- 
ishment— a  total  loss  of  her  own  liberty,  and  the  de- 
struction of  her  own  commerce. 

I  suppose  you  would  like  to  know  something  of  the 
state  of  affairs  in  America.  In  all  probability  we 
shall  be  much  stronger  the  next  campaign  than  we 
were  in  the  last;  better  armed,  better  disciplined, 
and  with  more  ammunition.     When  I  was  at  the 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  177 

camp  before  Boston  '  the  army  had  not  five  rounds 
of  powder  a  man.  This  was  kept  a  secret  even  from 
our  people.  The  world  wondered  that  we  so  seldom 
fired  a  cannon.  We  could  not  afford  it ;  but  we  now 
make  powder  in  plenty. 

To  me  it  seems,  as  it  has  always  done,  that  this  war 
must  end  in  our  favor  and  in  the  ruin  of  Britain,  if 
she  does  not  speedily  put  an  end  to  it.  An  English 
gentleman  here  the  other  day,  in  company  with  some 
French,  remarked  that  it  was  folly  in  France  not  to 
make  war  immediately.  And  in  England,  replied 
one  of  them,  not  to  make  peace. 

Do  not  believe  the  reports  you  hear  of  our  internal 
divisions.  We  are,  I  believe,  as  much  united  as  any 
people  ever  were,  and  as  firmly.         B.  Franklin. 


DCXLI 

FROM    WILLIAM    DODD 

London,  29  January,  1777. 

Sir: — I  make  no  apology  for  troubling  you  with 
a  request  I  have  heretofore  made  of  conveying  the 
enclosed  letter,  if  possible,  to  a  worthy  young  woman, 
who,  in  an  unfortunate  hour,  went  to  America,  and 
to  whose  fortunes  and  situation  there  I  am  a  stranger. 

Anxious  for  the  success  of  the  grand  struggle,  in 
which  you  are  engaged,  I  could  have  been  happy  in 
conversing  with  you  when  I  was  at  Paris,  but  you 
were  rather  reserved.  If  you  should  see  or  con- 
verse with  Mr.  Mante,  who  resided  at  Dieppe,  but 

*In  October,  1775. 


178  The  Works  of  [1777 

is  frequently  at  Paris,  he  knows  my  sentiments,  and 
would  be  happy  to  communicate  with  you.'  I  am, 
with  very  great  esteem,  etc.,  W.  Dodd. 

P.  S. — Is  it  not  possible  to  effect  a  reconciliation? 
Happy  could  I  be  to  be  any  way  instrumental  in  it. 


DCXLII 

TO   JOHN   INGENHOUSZ 

Paris  [date  xincertain]. 

I  long  labored  in  England,  with  great  zeal 

and  sincerity,  to  prevent  the  breach  that  has  hap- 
pened, and  which  is  now  so  wide  that  no  endeavors 
of  mine  can  possibly  heal  it.  You  know  the  treat- 
ment I  met  with  from  that  imprudent  court;  but  I 
keep  a  separate  account  of  private  injuries,  which  I 
may  forgive ;  and  I  do  not  think  it  right  to  mix  them 

'  Thomas  Mante  was  the  author  of  The  History  of  the  Late  War  in 
North  America,  and  the  Islands  of  the  West  Indies,  including  the 
Campaigns  of  1763  and  1764  against  His  Majesty's  Indian  Enemies ; 
being  a  quarto  volume  published  at  London  in  1772.  It  is  the  best 
history  of  the  war  which  has  been  written.  The  author  served  in 
America;  and,  in  the  campaign  against  the  Indians,  in  1764,  he  acted 
as  major  of  a  brigade  and  aid-de-camp  to  General  Bradstreet.  After 
he  published  his  History,  he  engaged  in  extensive  agriculttiral  opera- 
tions in  France,  where  he  fell  into  pecuniary  difificulties,  as  he  says,  by 
the  faithless  conduct  of  a  person  with  whom  he  was  associated.  He 
was  imprisoned  in  Paris  for  debt.  In  this  condition,  debiHtated  by 
disease  and  oppressed  with  want,  he  applied  to  Dr.  Franklin  for  assist- 
ance. His  creditors  kept  him  long  confined,  during  which  time  Dr. 
Franklin  extended  to  him  every  friendly  aid  in  his  power,  and  gener- 
ously supplied  his  necessities. 

It  was  but  six  days  after  writing  the  above  letter,  that  Mr.  Dodd 
signed  the  bond  upon  which  he  had  forged  the  name  of  Lord  Chester- 
field, and  which  proved  his  ruin.  He  was  convicted  on  the  24th  of 
February,  and  executed  in  June  following. — Sparks. 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  179 

with  public  affairs.  Indeed,  there  is  no  occasion  for 
their  aid  to  whet  my  resentment  against  a  nation, 
that  has  burnt  our  defenceless  towns  in  the  midst  of 
winter,  has  excited  the  savages  to  assassinate  our  in- 
nocent farmers,  with  their  wives  and  children,  and 
our  slaves  to  murder  their  masters ! 

It  would  therefore  be  deceiving  you,  if  I  suffered 
you  to  remain  in  the  supposition  you  have  taken  up, 
that  I  am  come  to  Europe  to  make  peace.  I  am  in 
fact  ordered  hither  by  the  Congress  for  a  very  differ- 
ent purpose;  viz.,  to  procure  those  aids  from  Euro- 
pean powers,  for  enabhng  us  to  defend  our  freedom 
and  independence,  which  it  is  certainly  their  interest 
to  grant;  as  by  that  means  the  great  and  rapidly 
growing  trade  of  America  will  be  open  to  them  all, 
and  not  a  monopoly  to  Great  Britain,  as  heretofore; 
a  monopoly  that,  if  she  is  suffered  again  to  possess, 
will  be  such  an  increase  of  her  strength  by  sea,  and 
if  she  can  reduce  us  again  to  submission,  she  will  have 
thereby  so  great  an  addition  to  her  strength  by  land, 
as  will,  together,  make  her  the  most  formidable 
power  the  world  has  yet  seen;  and,  from  her  natural 
pride  and  insolence  in  prosperity,  of  all  others  the 
most  intolerable. 

You  desire  to  know  my  opinion  of  what  will  proba- 
bly be  the  end  of  this  war;  and  whether  our  new 
establishments  will  not  be  thereby  reduced  again  to 
deserts.  I  do  not,  for  my  part,  apprehend  much 
danger  of  so  great  an  evil  to  us.  I  think  we  shall  be 
able,  with  a  little  help,  to  defend  ourselves,  our 
possessions,  and  our  liberties  so  long,  that  England 
will  be  mined  by  persisting  in  the  wicked  attempt  to 


i8o  The  Works  of  [1777 

destroy  them.  I  must  nevertheless  regret  that  ruin, 
and  wish  that  her  injustice  and  tyranny  had  not 
deserved  it.  And  I  sometimes  flatter  myself  that, 
old  as  I  am,  I  may  possibly  live  to  see  my  country 
settled  in  peace  and  prosperity,  when  Britain  shall 
make  no  more  a  formidable  figure  among  the  powers 
of  Europe. 

You  put  me  in  mind  of  an  apology  for  mxy  con- 
duct, which  has  been  expected  from  me,  in  answer  to 
the  abuses  thrown  upon  me  before  the  Privy  Coun- 
cil. It  was  partly  written,  but  the  affairs  of  public 
importance  I  have  ever  since  been  engaged  in  pre- 
vented my  finishing  it.'  The  injuries,  too,  that 
my  country  has  suffered,  have  absorbed  private 
resentments,  and  made  it  appear  trifling  for  an  indi- 
vidual to  trouble  the  world  with  his  particular  justifi- 
cation, when  all  his  compatriots  were  stigmatized  by 
the  king  and  Parliament  as  being,  in  every  respect, 
the  worst  of  mankind!  I  am  obliged  to  you,  how- 
ever, for  the  friendly  part  you  have  always  taken  in 
the  defence  of  my  character;  and  it  is  indeed  no 
small  argument  in  my  favor,  that  those  who  have 
known  me  most  and  longest,  still  love  me  and  trust 
me  with  their  most  important  interests,  of  which 
my  election  into  the  Congress  by  the  unanimous 
voice  of  the  Assembly,  or  Parliament,  of  Pennsyl- 
vania, the  day  after  my  arrival  from  England,  and 
my  present  mission  hither  by  the  Congress  itself, 
are  instances  incontestable. 

^  See  the  piece  here  mentioned,  in  Vol.  V.  It  was  never  published 
by  Franklin,  and  first  appeared  in  William  Temple  Franklin's  edition 
of  his  grandfather's  works  in  1816-17. — Editor. 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  i8i 

DCXLIII 

TO  THE  RIGHT  HONORABLE  LORD  GEORGE  SACKVILLE 
GERMAINE,  ONE  OF  THE  PRINCIPAL  SECRETARIES 
OF  STATE  TO  THE  KING  OF  GREAT  BRITAIN 

Paris,  7  February,  1777. 

Whereas  the  schooner  Dickenson  with  her  cargo, 
which  was  the  property  of  the  Congress  of  the  United 
States  of  America,  was  by  an  act  of  piracy  in  some 
of  her  crew  carried  into  the  port  of  Bristol  in  Eng- 
land, and  there,  as  we  are  informed,  was  converted 
to  the  use  of  the  government  of  Great  Britain,  and 
the  perpetrators  of  so  base  and  dishonest  an  action, 
the  mate,  etc.,  were  rewarded  instead  of  being  pun- 
ished for  their  wickedness, and  whereas  another 

vessel  with  her  cargo  of  tobacco,  being  also  the 
property  of  the  United  States,  or  of  some  inhab- 
itants of  the  same,  was  lately  carried  into  the  port  of 
Liverpool,  in  England,  by  a  similar  act  of  treachery 
in  her  crew;  and  a  third  has  in  the  same  manner 
been  carried  into  Halifax; 

We  therefore  being  commissioners  plenipotentiary 
from  the  Congress  of  the  United  States  of  America, 
do,  in  their  name  and  by  their  authority,  demand 
from  the  court  of  Great  Britain,  a  restitution  of 
those  vessels  and  their  cargoes,  or  the  full  value  of 
them;  together  with  the  delivery  of  the  pirates  into 
our  hands,  to  be  sent  where  they  may  be  tried  and 
punished  as  their  crimes  deserve. 

We  feel  it  our  duty  to  humanity  to  warn  the  court 
of  Great  Britain  of  the  consequences  of  protecting 
such  offenders  and  of  encouraging  such  actions  as 


i82  The  Works  of  [1777 

are  in  violation  of  all  moral  obligation  and  therefore 
subversive  of  the  firmest  foundation  of  the  laws  of 
nations. 

It  is  hoped  that  the  government  of  Great  Britain 
will  not  add  to  the  unjust  principles  of  this  war,  such 
practices  as  would  disgrace  the  meanest  state  in  Eu- 
rope ;  and  which  must  forever  stain  the  character  of 
the  British  nation.'  We  are  sensible  that  nothing 
can  be  more  abhorrent  from  the  sentiments  and  feel- 
ings of  the  Congress  of  the  United  States,  than  the 
authorizing  so  base  a  kind  of  war  as  a  retaliation 
of  these  practices  will  produce.  We  are,  therefore, 
more  earnest  in  pressing  the  court  of  Great  Britain, 
to  prevent,  by  the  act  of  justice  which  is  demanded, 
the  retaliation,  to  which  necessity,  in  repugnance  to 
principles,  will  otherwise  compel. 

B.  Franklin, 
Silas  Deane, 
Arthur  Lee. 


DCXLIV 

TO    MRS.    THOMPSON,    AT    LISLE 

Paris,  8  February,  1777. 

You  are  too  early,  hussy,  as  well  as  too  saucy,  in 
calling  me  rebel;  you  should  wait  for  the  event, 
which  will  determine  whether  it  is  a  rebellion  or  only 
a  revolution.  Here  the  ladies  are  more  civil;  they 
call  us  les  insurgens,  a  character  that  usually  pleases 
them;  and  methinks  all  other  women  who  smart,  or 

^  The  Attorney-General,  in  the  very  year  this  letter  was  written, 
instituted  criminal  proceedings  against  an  English  clergyman  for 
inviting  subscriptions  for  the  relief  of  wounded  Americans. — Editor. 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  183 

have  smarted,  under  the  tyranny  of  a  bad  husband, 
ought  to  be  fixed  in  revolution  principles,  and  act 
accordingly. 

In  my  way  to  Canada  last  spring,  I  saw  dear  Mrs. 
Barrow  at  New  York.  Mr.  Barrow  had  been  from 
her  two  or  three  months,  to  keep  Governor  Tryon 
and  other  Tories  company  on  board  the  Asia,  one  of 
the  king's  ships  which  lay  in  the  harbor;  and  in  all 
that  time  that  naughty  man  had  not  ventured  once 
on  shore  to  see  her.  Our  troops  were  then  pouring 
into  the  town,  and  she  was  packing  up  to  leave  it, 
fearing,  as  she  had  a  large  house,  they  would  incom- 
mode her  by  quartering  officers  in  it.  As  she  ap- 
peared in  great  perplexity,  scarce  knowing  where  to 
go,  I  persuaded  her  to  stay;  and  I  went  to  the 
general  officers  then  commanding  there,  and  recom- 
mended her  to  their  protection;  which  they  prom- 
ised and  performed.  On  my  return  from  Canada, 
where  I  was  a  piece  of  governor  (and  I  think  a  very 
good  one)  for  a  fortnight,  and  might  have  been  so  till 
this  time  if  your  wicked  army,  enemies  to  all  good 
government,  had  not  come  and  driven  me  out,  I 
found  her  still  in  quiet  possession  of  her  house.  I  in- 
quired how  our  people  had  behaved  to  her.  She 
spoke  in  high  terms  of  the  respectful  attention  they 
had  paid  her,  and  the  quiet  and  security  they  had 
procured  her.  I  said  I  was  glad  of  it;  and  that,  if 
they  had  used  her  ill,  I  would  have  turned  Tory. 
Then  said  she,  with  that  pleasing  gayety  so  natural 
to  her,  /  wish  they  had.  For  you  must  know  she  is 
a  Tory  ess  as  well  as  you,  and  can  as  flippantly  call 
rebel.     I  drank  tea  with  her;    we  talked  affection- 


1 84  The  Works  of  [1777 

ately  of  you  and  our  other  friends  the  Wilkses,  of 
whom  she  had  received  no  late  intelligence.  What 
became  of  her  since,  I  have  not  heard.  The  street 
she  lived  in  was  some  months  after  chiefly  burnt 
down;  but,  as  the  town  was  then,  and  ever  since 
has  been,  in  possession  of  the  king's  troops,  I  have 
had  no  opportunity  of  knowing  whether  she  suffered 
any  loss  in  the  conflagration.  I  hope  she  did  not, 
as,  if  she  did,  I  should  wish  I  had  not  persuaded  her 
to  stay  there. 

I  am  glad  to  learn  from  you  that  that  unhappy, 

though  deserving  family,  the  W s,  are  getting 

into  some  business  that  may  afford  them  subsistence. 
I  pray  that  God  will  bless  them,  and  that  they  may 

see  happier  days.     Mr.   Cheap's  and  Dr.   H 's 

good  fortunes  please  me.  Pray  learn,  if  you  have  not 
already  learnt,  like  me,  to  be  pleased  with  other  peo- 
ple's pleasures,  and  happy  with  their  happiness,  when 
none  occur  of  your  own ;  and  then  perhaps  you  will 
not  so  soon  be  weary  of  the  place  you  chance  to  be 
in,  and  so  fond  of  rambling  to  get  rid  of  your  ennui. 
I  fancy  you  have  hit  upon  the  right  reason  of  your 
being  weary  of  St.  Omer's,  viz.,  that  you  are  out  of 
temper,  which  is  the  effect  of  full  living  and  idleness. 
A  month  in  Bridewell,  beating  hemp,  upon  bread  and 
water,  will  give  you  health  and  spirits,  and  subse- 
quent cheerfulness  and  contentment  with  every  other 
situation.  I  prescribe  that  regimen  for  you,  my  dear, 
in  pure  good-will,  without  a  fee.  And  let  me  tell 
you,  if  you  do  not  get  into  temper,  neither  Brussels 
nor  Lisle  will  suit  you.  I  know  nothing  of  the  price 
of  living  in  either  of  those  places;   but  I  am  sure  a 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  185 

single  woman,  as  you  are,  might  with  economy  upon 
two  hundred  pounds  a  year  maintain  herself  com- 
fortably anywhere,  and  me  into  the  bargain.     Do 
not  invite  me  in  earnest,  however,  to  come  and  live 
with  you;    for,  being  posted  here,  I  ought  not  to 
comply,  and  I  am  not  sure  I  should  be  able  to  refuse. 
Present    my   respects   to    Mrs.    Payne   and    Mrs. 
Heathcot ;  for,  though  I  have  not  the  honor  of  know- 
ing them,  yet,  as  you  say  they  are  friends  to  the 
American  cause,  I  am  sure  they  must  be  women  of 
good  understanding.     I  know  you  wish  you  could 
see  me;    but,  as  you  cannot,  I  will  describe  myself 
to  you.     Figure  me  in  your  mind  as  jolly  as  for- 
merly, and  as  strong  and  hearty,  only  a  few  years 
older;    very  plainly  dressed,  wearing  my  thin,  gray 
straight  hair,  that  peeps  out  under  my  only  coiffure, 
a   fine   fur   cap,   which   comes   down   my   forehead 
almost   to    my   spectacles.     Think  how  this  must 
appear  among  the  powdered  heads  of  Paris!     I  wish 
every  lady  and  gentleman  in  France  would  only  be 
so  obliging  as  to  follow  my  fashion,  comb  their  own 
heads  as  I  do  mine,  dismiss  their  friseurs,  and  pay 
me  half  the  money  they  paid  to  them.     You  see, 
the  gentry  might  well  afford  this,  and  I  could  then 
enlist  these  friseurs,  who  are  at  least  one  hundred 
thousand,  and  with  the  money  I  would  maintain 
them,  make  a  visit  with  them  to  England,  and  dress 
the  heads  of  your  ministers  and  privy  councillors; 
which  I  conceive  at  present  to  be  un  peu  derangees. 
Adieu,   madcap;    and  believe  me  ever  your  affec- 
tionate friend  and  humble  servant, 

B.  Franklin. 


i86  The  Works  of  [1777 

P.  S. — Don't  be  proud  of  this  long  letter.  A  fit 
of  the  gout,  which  has  confined  me  five  days,  and 
made  me  refuse  to  receive  company,  has  given  me 
a  little  time  to  trifle;  otherwise  it  would  have  been 
very  short,  visitors  and  business  would  have  inter- 
rupted; and  perhaps,  with  Mrs.  Barrow,  you  v/ish 
they  had. 


DCXLV 

TO    GENERAL   WASHINGTON  * 

Sir: — The  Marquis  de  Lafayette,  a  young  noble- 
man of  great  expectations  and  exceedingly  beloved 
here,  is  by  this  time  probably  with  you.  By  some 
misapprehension  in  his  contract  with  the  merchants 
of  Bordeau:x  he  was  prevented  from  using  the  pro- 
duce of  the  cargo  he  carried  over,  and  so  was  left 
without  a  supply  of  money.  His  friends  here  have 
sent  him  over  about  ;;^5oo  sterling;  and  have  pro- 
posed sending  him  more ;  but  on  reflection,  knowing 
the  extreme  generosity  of  his  disposition,  and  fearing 
that  some  of  his  necessitous  and  artful  countrymen 
may  impose  on  his  goodness,  they  wish  to  put  his 
money  into  the  hands  of  some  discreet  friend,  who 
may  supply  him  from  time  to  time,  and  by  that 
means  knowing  his  expenses,  may  take  occasion  to 
advise  him,  if  necessary,  with  a  friendly  affection, 
and  secure  him  from  too  much  imposition.  They 
accordingly  have  desired  us  to  name  such  a  person 

^  This  letter  is  printed  from  a  rough  draft,  in  the  Department  of 
State  at  Washington,  which  is  without  date. — Editor. 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  187 

to  them.  We  have  not  been  able  to  think  of  one  so 
capable,  and  so  suitable  from  the  influence  of  situa- 
tion, to  perform  that  kind  office,  as  General  Wash- 
ington, under  whose  eye  the  gentleman  will  probably 
be.  We  beg  therefore  in  his  behalf,  what  his  friends 
out  of  respect  would  not  take  the  liberty  of  asking, 
that  your  Excellency  would  be  pleased  to  furnish 
him  with  what  money  he  may  want  in  moderation, 
and  take  his  drafts  payable  to  us  for  the  sums  paid 
him,  which  we  shall  receive  here  and  apply  to  the 
public  service.  We  also  join  with  his  family  in 
their  earnest  request  that  you  would  favor  him  with 
your  counsels,  which  you  may  be  assured  will  be  an 
act  of  benevolence  gratefully  remembered  and  ac- 
knowledged, by  a  number  of  very  worthy  persons 
here  who  interest  themselves  extremely  in  the 
welfare  of  that  amiable  young  nobleman. 

With  the  greatest  respect  we  have  the  honor  to 
be,  sir,  Your  Excellency's,  etc. 


DCXLVI 

FROM    GEORGIANA    SHIPLEY 

London,  ii  February,  1777. 

After  near  two  years  had  passed  without  my  hear- 
ing any  thing  from  you,  and  while  I  looked  upon  the 
renewal  of  our  correspondence  as  a  very  imlikely 
event,  it  is  easier  to  conceive  than  express  the  joy 
I  felt  at  receiving  your  last  kind  letter.  The  cer- 
tainty that  you  are  in  good  health  and  spirits,  and 


1 88  The  Works  of  [1777 

that  you  still  remember  your  English  friends,  is  the 
greatest  pleasure  we  can  know  during  your  absence. 
How  good  you  were  to  send  me  your  direction,  but 
I  fear  I  must  not  make  use  of  it  as  often  as  I  could 
wish,  since  my  father  says  that  it  will  be  prudent  not 
to  write  in  the  present  situation  of  affairs.  I  am  not 
of  an  age  to  be  so  very  prudent,  and  the  only  thought 
that  occurred  to  me  was  your  suspecting  that  my 
silence  proceeded  from  other  motives.  I  could  not 
support  the  idea  of  your  believing  that  I  love  and 
esteem  you  less  than  I  did  some  few  years  ago.  I 
therefore  write  this  once  without  my  father's  know- 
ledge. You  are  the  first  man  that  ever  received  a 
private  letter  from  me,  and  in  this  instance  I  feel 
that  my  intentions  justify  my  conduct ;  but  I  must 
entreat  that  you  will  take  no  notice  of  my  writing, 
when  next  I  have  the  happiness  of  hearing  from  you. 
You  say  you  are  interested  in  whatever  relates  to 
this  family.  My  father  I  think  was  never  better 
than  he  is  at  present,  both  as  to  his  health  and 
spirits;  my  mother  has  not  been  so  well  this  last 
summer,  but  I  flatter  myself  that  she  has  now  per- 
fectly recovered  from  her  late  indisposition.  Emily 
has  only  one  daughter,  a  charming  little  girl,  near 
fifteen  months  old,  whom  her  aunts  reckon  a  prodigy 
of  sense  and  beauty.  The  rest  of  my  sisters  continue 
in  statu  quo.  Whether  this  proceeds  from  the  men 
being  difficult,  or  from  their  being  difficult,  I  leave 
you  to  determine.  I  often  see  many  of  your  good 
friends,  need  I  add  that  you  are  the  favorite  subject 
of  our  conversation.  They  all  love  you  almost  as 
much  as  I  do — as  much  I  will  not  admit  to  be  pos- 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  189 

sible.     Doctor  P.   made  me  extremely  happy  last 
winter  by  giving  me  a  print  of  my  excellent  friend. 
It  is  certainly  very  like  you,  although  it  wants  the 
addition  of  your  own  hair  to  make  it  complete,  but 
as  it  is,  I  prize  it  infinitely,  now  the  dear  original  is 
absent.     Pray  have  you  met  with  Smith's  "Wealth 
of  Nations  "  ?    if  not,  I  venture  strongly  to  recom- 
mend it  to  you.     I  have  read  only  part,  but  propose 
shortly  to  read  it  regularly  through.     His  sentiments 
are  liberal  and  the  language  clear  and  interesting. 
This  is  the  only  book  that  has  been  lately  published 
worth  mentioning,  except  Gibbon's  "History  of  the 
Rise  and  Fall  of  the  Roman  Empire."     It  is  written 
in  a  pleasing  elegant  manner.     His  scheme  is  to 
unite  ancient  and  modern  history,  an  immense  work, 
which  I  wish  he  may  have  application  to  accomplish. 
I  have  been  at  length  fortunate  enough  to  procure 
the  Economics,  which  I  have  read  with  great  at- 
tention, as  indeed  every  thing  else  I  can  meet  with 
relative  to  Socrates,  for  I  fancy  I  can  discover  in 
each  trait  of  that  admirable  man's  character,  a  strong 
resemblance  between  him  and  my  much-loved  friend 
— the  same  clearness  of  judgment,  the  same  upright- 
ness  of  intention,   and   the   same   superior  under- 
standing.    I  dined  lately  with  Sir  Wm.  Hamilton; 
he  gave  me  an  account  of  a  new  electrical  machine, 
invented  in  Italy.     It  is  composed  of  beeswax,  a 
plate  of  metal,  and  a  plate  of  glass.     They  are  able 
to  take  a  spark  from  it  at  ten  inches'  distance,  but 
he  could  not  inform  me  why  these  bodies  united 
produce   this   effect.     Were   you   in   England   how 
happy  should  I  be  to  have  this  as  well  as  many  other 


iQO  The  Works  of  [1777 

things  explained  by  you,  but  I  don't  allow  myself 
to  entertain  any  hopes  on  this  subject,  as  I  much  fear 
there  is  no  reason  to  flatter  myself  with  so  pleasing 
an  idea.  Envy  is  reckoned  one  of  the  foibles  of  our 
sex.  Till  lately  I  thought  I  was  exempt  from  it, 
but  now  I  find  a  strong  inclination  to  envy  your 
grandson  the  having  it  in  his  power  to  show  you  any 
kindness  and  attention.  Did  my  family  know  of 
my  writing,  my  letter  would  scarce  contain  the  very- 
many  things  they  would  desire  me  to  say  for  them. 
They  continue  to  admire  and  love  you  as  much  as 
they  did  formerly,  nor  can  any  time  or  event  in  the 
least  change  their  sentiments. 

My  paper  now  reminds  me  that  it  is  high  time  for 
me  to  conclude.  Assure  yourself  that  every  good 
wish  for  your  happiness  and  prosperity  attends  you 
from  this  house.  Adieu,  mon  cher  Socrate;  con- 
servez  vous  pour  I'amour  de  moi,  et  pour  mille 
autres  raisons  plus  importants.  Je  ne  vous  en  dirai 
pas  d'avantage  pour  aujourd'  hui,  mais  je  veux 
esperer  de  vous  entretenir  plus  h  mon  aise,  avant 
que  soit  longue.  Pray  write  whenever  a  safe  con- 
veyance opens,  since  the  receiving  letters  is  reckoned 
very  different  from  answering  them.  I  must  once 
more  repeat  nobody  knows  of  this  scroll;  "a  word 
to  the  wise," — as  poor  Richard  says. 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  191 

DCXLVII 

FROM  THE  COUNT  DE  SCHAUMBERGH  TO  THE  BARON 
HOHENDORF,  COMMANDING  THE  HESSIAN  TROOPS 
IN    AMERICA 

Rome,  i8  February,  1777. 

Monsieur  le  Baron:  ^— On  my  return  from 
Naples,  I  received  at  Rome  your  letter  of  the  27th 
December  of  last  year.  I  have  learned  with  un- 
speakable pleasure  the  courage  our  troops  exhibited 
at  Trenton,  and  you  cannot  imagine  my  joy  on  being 
told  that  of  the  1,950  Hessians  engaged  in  the  fight, 
but  345  escaped.  There  were  just  1,605  men  killed,' 
and  I  cannot  sufficiently  commend  your  prudence 
in  sending  an  exact  list  of  the  dead  to  my  minister 
in  London.  This  precaution  was  the  more  neces- 
sary, as  the  report  sent  to  the  English  ministry  does 
not  give  but  1,455  dead.  This  would  make  483,450 
florins  instead  of  the  643,500  which  I  am  entitled 
to  demand  under  our  convention.  You  will  com- 
prehend the  prejudice  which  such  an  error  would 
work  in  my  finances,  and  I  do  not  doubt  you  will 
take  the  necessary  pains  to  prove  that  Lord  North's 
list  is  false  and  yours  correct. 

The  court  of  London  objects  that  there  were  a 
hundred  wounded  who  ought  not  to  be  included 
in  the  list,  nor  paid  for  as  dead;  but  I  trust  you  will 

»  The  jeu  d: esprit  here  given  in  the  text  appears  in  the  Correspon- 
dance,  secrHe  et  tnedite,,  sur  Louis  XVI.  et  Marie  Antoinette.  (See 
Vol.  L,  p.  60.)  It  may  be  the  very  satire  referred  to  at  the  close  of  the 
letter  on  p.  2 1 7,  this  vol.  Nor  do  I  think  I  am  doing  Doctor  Franklin 
any  mjustice  in  suspecting  him  of  being  its  author.  Since  the  death 
of  Swift,  who,  besides  Franklin,  was  sufficiently  a  master  of  this  kind 
of  satire  to  have  written  it? — Editor. 


192  The  Works  of  [1777 

not  overlook  my  instructions  to  3/ou  on  quitting 
Cassel,  and  that  you  will  not  have  tried  by  human 
succor  to  recall  to  life  the  unfortunates  whose  days 
could  not  be  lengthened  but  by  the  loss  of  a  leg  or 
an  arm.  That  would  be  making  them  a  pernicious 
present,  and  I  am  sure  they  would  rather  die  than 
live  in  a  condition  no  longer  fit  for  my  service.  I 
do  not  mean  by  this  that  you  should  assassinate 
them;  we  should  be  humane,  my  dear  Baron,  but 
you  may  insinuate  to  the  surgeons  with  entire  pro- 
priety that  a  crippled  man  is  a  reproach  to  their 
profession,  and  that  there  is  no  wiser  course  than 
to  let  every  one  of  them  die  when  he  ceases  to  be  fit 
to  fight. 

I  am  about  to  send  you  some  new  recruits.  Don't 
economize  them.  Remember  glory  before  all  things. 
Glory  is  true  wealth.  There  is  nothing  degrades 
the  soldier  like  the  love  of  money.  He  must  care 
only  for  honor  and  reputation,  but  this  reputation 
must  be  acquired  in  the  midst  of  dangers.  A  battle 
gained  without  costing  the  conqueror  any  blood  is 
an  inglorious  success,  while  the  conquered  cover 
themselves  with  glory  by  perishing  with  their  arms 
in  their  hands.  Do  you  remember  that  of  the  300 
Lacedasmonians  who  defended  the  defile  of  Ther- 
mopylae, not  one  returned?  How  happy  should  I 
be  could  I  say  the  same  of  my  brave  Hessians ! 

It  is  true  that  their  king,  Leonidas,  perished  with 
them:  but  things  have  changed,  and  it  is  no  longer 
the  custom  for  princes  of  the  empire  to  go  and  fight 
in  America  for  a  cause  with  which  they  have  no 
concern.     And  besides,  to  whom  should  they  pay 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  193 

the  thirty  guineas  per  man  '  if  I  did  not  stay  in 
Europe  to  receive  them?  Then,  it  is  necessary  also 
that  I  be  ready  to  send  recruits  to  replace  the  men 
you  lose.  For  this  purpose  I  must  return  to  Hesse. 
It  is  true,  grown  men  are  becoming  scarce  there, 
but  I  will  send  you  boys.     Besides,  the  scarcer  the 

^  The  editor  of  George  Ill's  Letters  to  Lord  North,  in  a  brief  com- 
mentary upon  these  contracts,  Vol.  I.,  p.  266,  says: 

"The  principal  graziers  with  whom  the  English  government  dealt 
for  military  stock  were  the  Duke  of  Brunswick,  the  Landgrave  of 
Hesse  Cassel,  the  hereditary  Prince  of  Hesse  Cassel,  and  subsequently 
the  Prince  of  Waldeck.  The  prices  given,  as  appears  from  the 
copies  of  the  treaties  laid  before  Parliament  on  the  29th  of  February 
in  the  following  year,  were  as  follows:  These  potentates  stipulated 
to  supply  a  force  of  17,742  men  at  the  rate  of  7/.  4s.  4c?.  a  man;  all 
extraordinary  losses  in  battle  or  otherwise  to  be  compensated  by  the 
king.  Each  of  the  noble  graziers  was  to  receive  in  addition  an 
annual  subsidy  in  proportion  to  the  number  of  men;  the  Duke  of 
Brunswick  15,510/.  so  long  as  his  troops  received  pay,  and  double  that 
sum  for  two  years  after;  the  Landgrave  of  Hesse  108,281/.,  and  also 
to  have  twelve  months'  notice  before  payment  was  discontinued, 
after  his  forces  returned  to  his  dominions;  to  the  Princes  of  Hesse 
and  Waldeck,  who  contributed  near  700  men  each,  were  assigned 
6,017/.  The  dominions  of  all  were  guaranteed  against  foreign  attack, 
for  such  time  at  least  as  their  herds  were  in  foreign  parts." 

In  a  letter  from  George  IIL  to  Lord  North,  dated  from  Kew,  No- 
vember 14,  1775,  his  Majesty  writes: 

"I  sent  last  week  orders  to  the  Regency  and  to  Field  Marshal  Spor- 
ken  that  Schleither  should  be  permitted  to  contract  with  Colonel 
Faucitt  for  raising  4,000  recruits  for  Great  Britain,  and  that  Stade 
and  Neubm-gh  should  be  the  two  garrisons  where  the  recruits  should 
be  closely  kept.  .  .  .  The  laws  of  Germany  are  so  clear  against 
emigration  that  I  certainly,  in  going  thus  far,  have  done  as  much  as 
I  possibly  can  in  my  electoral  capacity;  the  giving  commissions  to 
oificers,  or  any  other  of  the  proposals  that  have  been  made,  I  can  by 
no  means  consent  to,  for  they,  in  plain  English,  are  turning  me  into  a 
kidnapper,  which  I  cannot  think  a  very  honorable  occupation." 

The  Colonel  Faucitt  here  referred  to  was  sent  as  agent  to  trade  with 
the  hereditary  prince  Ferdinand,  George  IIL's  brother-in-law,  who 
persuaded  his  father,  the  reigning  duke,  to  part  with  some  of  his  troops. 
Three  hundred  light  dragoons,  which  were  not  wanted,  were  added  to 
"the  4,000  recruits"  required,  Faucitt  not  wishing  "to  appear  difficult." 

VOL.  VII. 13. 


194 


The  Works  of  [1777 


commodity,  the  higher  the  price.  I  am  assured 
that  the  women  and  Httle  girls  have  begun  to  till 
our  lands,  and  they  get  on  not  badly.  You  did 
right  to  send  back  to  Europe  that  Dr.  Crumerus 
who  was  so  successful  in  curing  dysentery.  Don't 
bother  with  a  man  who  is  subject  to  looseness  of 
the  bowels.  That  disease  makes  bad  soldiers.  One 
coward  will  do  more  mischief  in  an  engagement  than 
ten  brave  men  will  do  good.  Better  that  they  burst 
in  their  barracks  than  fly  in  a  battle,  and  tarnish 
the  glory  of  our  arms.     Besides,  you  know  that  they 

Sixty  German  dollars  levy  money  was  demanded  for  each  man,  but 
a  little  more  than  half  that  sum  was  finally  accepted.  Every  soldier 
killed  was  to  be  paid  for  at  the  rate  of  the  levy  money,  and  three 
wounded  men  were  to  be  reckoned  as  one  killed. 

It  must  have  been  the  recital  of  these  degrading  enormities  which 
inspired  the  following  anecdote  at  the  expense  of  royalty,  preserved 
by  John  Adams.     He  says  in  his  diary: 

"Franklin  told  us  one  of  his  characteristic  stories.  A  Spanish 
writer  of  certain  visions  of  hell  relates  that  a  certain  devil,  who  was 
civil,  showed  him  all  the  apartments  of  the  place;  among  others,  that 
of  the  deceased  kings.  The  Spaniard  was  much  pleased  at  so  illustrious 
a  sight,  and,  after  viewing  them  for  some  time,  said  he  shotold  be  glad 
to  see  the  rest  of  them.  '  The  rest ! '  said  the  demon ;  '  here  are  all  the 
kings  that  have  ever  reigned  upon  earth,  from  the  creation  of  it  to 
this  day.     What  the  devil  would  the  man  have? ' " 

It  is  worthy  of  note  here  that  the  castle  of  Wilhelmshohe,  one  of  the 
most  costly  country-places,  after  that  of  the  palace  of  Versailles,  in 
the  world,  was  built  by  the  Elector  of  Cassel  shortly  after  our  revolu- 
tionary war,  with  the  money  he  received  for  the  loan  of  his  subjects 
to  aid  England  in  resisting  the  emancipation  of  her  American  colonies. 
This  palace,  and  the  bridges,  water-falls,  towers,  etc.,  are  said  to  have 
employed  2,000  men  fourteen  years  in  their  construction,  and  the 
cost  was  found  to  be  so  enormous  that  the  accounts  were  destroyed. 
For  the  12,000  Hessians  sent  to  fight  the  Americans  and  5,000  more 
sent  to  resist  the  invasion  of  Scotland  by  the  Pretender,  England 
paid  the  Elector  of  that  day  22,000,000  thalers,  or  about  $18,000,000, 
of  which  the  palace  of  Wilhelmshohe  is  the  most  conspicuous  surviving 
memorial. 

It  is  a  fact  pregnant  with  important  lessons,  that  every  one  of  the 


t777]  Benjamin  Franklin  195 

pay  me  as  killed  for  all  who  die  from  disease,  and  I 
don't  get  a  farthing  for  runaways.  My  trip  to  Italy, 
which  has  cost  me  enormously,  makes  it  desirable 
that  there  should  be  a  great  mortality  among  them. 
You  will  therefore  promise  promotion  to  all  who  ex- 
pose themselves ;  you  will  exhort  them  to  seek  glory 
in  the  midst  of  dangers ;  you  will  say  to  Major  Maun- 
dorff  that  I  am  not  at  all  content  with  his  saving 
the  345  men  who  escaped  the  massacre  at  Trenton. 
Through  the  whole  campaign  he  has  not  had  ten 
men  killed  in  consequence  of  his  orders.  Finally, 
let  it  be  your  principal  object  to  prolong  the  war 
and  avoid  a  decisive  engagement  on  either  side,  for 
I  have  made  arrangements  for  a  grand  Italian  opera, 

European  states,  including  Cassel,  that  hired  out  their  subjects  to 
resist  American  independence,  have  lost  their  own.  Not  one  of  them 
is  any  longer  a  sovereign  power.  In  the  war  of  1866,  the  last  Elector 
of  Cassel  committed  the  folly  of  taking  sides  with  Austria,  and  one  of 
the  consequences  was  that  his  enchanting  castle  of  Wilhelmshohe 
became  the  property  of  his  conqueror.  Thus  one  after  the  other  all 
the  states  that  made  merchandise  of  their  subjects  to  aid  England  in 
keeping  her  American  colonies  in  thrall  have  been  swallowed  up  by 
Prussia,  our  earliest  European  friend,  with  whom  we  never  had  even 
a  diplomatic  controversy,  and  whose  wealth  and  sympathy  contri- 
buted in  no  inconsiderable  degree  to  sustain  the  United  States  diuing 
their  recent  and  greatest  national  trials. 

This  palace  of  Wilhelmshohe  was  destined  subsequently  to  become 
at  once  the  prison  and  the  asylum  of  another  sovereign,  who,  unfaith- 
ful to  the  traditions  of  his  people,  allowed  himself  to  countenance  a 
conspiracy  which,  to  be  successful,  must  have  involved  the  destruction 
of  the  republic  which  had  proved  so  fatal  to  those  of  his  order  who 
had  tried  to  strangle  it  in  its  cradle.  With  Louis  Napoleon's  project 
to  re-establish  imperial  institutions  upon  the  rtiins  of  a  republic  in 
Mexico,  began  the  decline  of  his  fortimes.  It  is  a  curious  vindication 
of  the  ways  of  God  to  man  that  this  castle  of  Wilhelmshohe,  built 
with  the  bones  of  America's  enemies,  should  be  destined  to  afford  the 
welcome  shelter  of  a  prison  to  one  who  lost  his  crown  in  attempting 
to  erect  armed  barriers  against  the  spread  of  the  Anglo-Saxon  race  in 
America. — Editor. 


196  The  Works  of  [1777 

and  I  do  not  wish  to  be  obHged  to  give  it  up.  Mean- 
time I  pray  God,  my  dear  Baron  de  Hohendorf,  to 
have  you  in  his  holy  and  gracious  keeping. 


DCXLVIII 

TO    RICHARD    PETERS  ^ 

Dear  Sir: — The  bearer,  Mr.  Garanger,  Captain  of 
Bombardiers,  had,  as  he  informs  me,  engaged  to  go 
to  America  with  M.  De  Coudray,  an  officer  of  great 
distinction  in  the  artillery,  who  is  engaged  in  our 
service,  and  sailed  some  time  since.  M.  Garanger  not 
being  then  ready  was  left  behind.  He  is  well  recom- 
mended to  me  by  M.  Brisson,  a  gentleman  of  science 
here,  and  has  other  certificates  of  his  abilities  to 
show;  besides  that,  the  judgment  of  M.  de  Coudray, 
in  choosing  to  engage  him,  is  of  itself  more  than  a 
sufficient  recommendation.  I  know  nothing  of  the 
contract  between  them,  and  must  for  that  refer  to 
M.  de  Coudray  himself,  who  I  hope  is  by  this  time 
safely  arrived.  I  only  beg  leave  to  introduce  him 
to  you,  to  recommend  him  to  your  civilities  and 
countenance,  as  a  gentleman  who  is  zealous  for  our 
cause  and  desirous  to  serve  it,  and  to  request  you 
will  present  him  to  the  Board  of  War.  I  congrat- 
ulate you  on  the  check  given  to  the  enemy  in  New 
Jersey,  and  wishing  continued  success  to  our  arms, 

^  This  letter  was  filed  with  the  following  memorandum:  "Copy  of  a 
letter  from  Benjamin  Franklin,  Esqr.,  to  Mr.  Richard  Peters,  Secretary 
to  the  Rebel  Board  of  War  at  Philadelphia,  dated  at  Paris  March  6, 
1777." 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  197 

and  to  you  and  Mrs.  Peters  health  and  happiness, 
I  have  the  honor  to  be,  dear  sir,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


DCXLIX 

TO    ARTHUR    LEE ' 

Passy,  21  March,  1777. 

Dear  Sir: — We  have  received  your  favors  from 
Vittoria  and  Burgos.  The  Congress,  sitting  at  Balti- 
more, despatched  a  packet  to  us  the  9th  of  January, 
containing  an  account  of  the  success  at  Trenton,  and 
subsequent  events  to  that  date,  as  far  as  they  had 
come  to  knowledge.  The  vessel  was  obliged  to  run 
up  a  little  river  in  Virginia  to  avoid  some  m.en-of- 
war,  and  was  detained  there  seventeen  days,  or  we 

I  In  a  letter  from  the  Commissioners  to  the  Committee  of  Secret 
Correspondence,  dated  at  Paris,  February  6th,  they  write  as  follows: 
"  Finding  that  our  residence  here  together  is  nearly  as  expensive  as  if 
separate,  and  having  reason  to  believe  that  one  of  us  might  be  useful 
in  Madrid,  and  another  in  Holland,  and  some  courts  farther  northward, 
we  have  agreed  that  Mr.  Lee  go  to  Spain,  and  either  Mr.  Deane  or  Dr. 
Franklin  to  the  Hague.  Mr.  Lee  sets  out  to-morrow,  having  obtained 
passports,  and  a  letter  from  the  Spanish  ambassador  here  to  the  min- 
ister there.  The  journey  to  Holland  will  not  take  place  so  soon. 
The  particular  purposes  of  these  journeys  we  cannot  prudently  now 
explain." 

Mr.  Lee  accordingly  went  to  Spain,  but  he  was  not  permitted  by  the 
Spanish  court  to  proceed  any  farther  than  Burgos.  He  was  there 
met  by  the  Marquis  de  Grimaldi,  one  of  the  ministers,  and  succeeded 
in  obtaining  from  the  Spanish  government  a  small  amount  of  money 
for  purchasing  military  supplies,  which  were  subsequently  shipped  to 
the  United  States  from  Bilboa.  The  business  was  transacted  secretly, 
and  the  minister  declined  making  any  pledges  or  entering  into  any 
arrangements  in  favor  of  the  United  States.  Mr.  Lee  returned  to 
Paris,  and  rejoined  the  other  Commissioners,  after  an  absence  of  seven 
weeks. — See  North  American  Review  for  April,  1830,  Vol.  XXX.,  p. 
470. — Editor. 


198  The  Works  of  [1777 

should  have  had  these  advices  sooner.  We  learn, 
however,  through  England,  where  they  have  news 
from  New  York  to  the  4th  of  February,  that  in  Lord 
Comwallis'  retreat  to  New  Brunswick  two  regiments 
of  his  rear  guard  were  cut  to  pieces;  that  General 
Washington,  having  got  round  him  to  Newark  and 
Elizabeth  town,  he  had  retired  to  Amboy  in  his  way  to 
New  York ;  that  General  Howe  had  called  in  the  gar- 
risons of  Fort  Lee  and  Fort  Constitution,  which  were 
now  possessed  by  our  people ;  that  on  the  New  York 
side  Forts  Washington  and  Independence  were  retaken 
by  our  troops,  and  that  the  British  forces  at  Rhode 
Island  were  recalled  for  the  defence  of  New  York. 

The  committee  in  their  letters  mention  the  inten- 
tion of  Congress  to  send  ministers  to  the  courts  of 
Vienna,  Tuscany,  Holland,  and  Prussia.  They  also 
send  us  a  fresh  commission,  containing  your  name 
instead  of  Mr.  Jefferson's,  with  this  additional  clause: 
"  And  also  to  enter  into  and  agree  upon  a  treaty  with 
his  most  Christian  Majesty,  or  such  other  person  or 
persons  as  shall  be  by  him  authorized  for  that  pur- 
pose, for  assistance  in  carrying  on  the  present  war 
between  Great  Britain  and  these  United  States." 
The  same  clause  is  in  a  particular  commission  they 
have  sent  me,  to  treat  with  the  court  of  Spain,  simi- 
lar to  our  common  commission  to  the  court  of 
France,^  and  I  am  accordingly  directed  to  go  to 

I  On  the  ist  of  January,  1777,  Congress  resolved:  "That  Benjamin 
FrankHn  be  directed  to  proceed  to  the  court  of  Spain,  and  there  trans- 
act, in  behalf  of  the  United  States,  such  business  as  shall  be  intrusted 
to  him  by  Congress,  agreeably  to  the  instructions  that  may  be  given 
to  him  and  transmitted  by  the  Committee  of  Secret  Correspondence." 
See  his  commission  in  the  Secret  Journal  of  Congress,  Vol.  II.,  p.  42. — 
Editor. 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  199 

Spain ;  but,  as  I  know  that  choice  was  made  merely 
on  the  supposition  of  my  being  a  little  known  there 
to  the  great  personage  for  whom  you  have  my  letter 
(a  circumstance  of  little  importance),  and  I  am  really 
unable  through  age  to  bear  the  fatigue  and  incon- 
veniences of  such  a  journey,  I  must  excuse  myself  to 
Congress,  and  join  with  Mr.  Deane  in  requesting 
you  to  proceed  in  the  business  on  the  former  footing 
till  you  can  receive  a  particular  commission  from 
Congress,  which  will  no  doubt  be  sent  as  soon  as  the 
circumstances  are  known. 

We  know  of  no  plans  or  instructions  to  Mr.  Deane 
but  those  you  have  with  you.  By  the  packet,  indeed, 
we  have  some  fresh  instructions,  which  relate  to  your 
mission,  viz.,  that,  in  case  France  and  Spain  will  enter 
into  the  war,  the  United  States  will  assist  the  former 
in  the  conquest  of  the  British  sugar  islands,  and  the 
latter  in  the  conquest  of  Portugal,  promising  the  as- 
sistance of  six  frigates  manned,  of  not  less  than 
twenty-four  guns  each,  and  provisions  equal  to  two 
millions  of  dollars;  America  desiring  only  for  her 
share  what  Britain  holds  on  the  continent;  but  you 
shall  by  the  first  safe  opportunity  have  the  instruc- 
tions at  length.     I  believe  we  must  send  a  courier. 

If  we  can,  we  are  ordered  to  borrow  two  millions 
of  pounds  on  interest.  Judge  then  what  a  piece  of 
service  you  will  do,  if  you  can  obtain  a  considerable 
subsidy,  or  even  a  loan  without  interest. 

We  are  also  ordered  to  build  six  ships  of  war.  It 
is  a  pleasure  to  find  the  things  ordered,  which  we 
were  doing  without  orders. 

We  are  also  to  acquaint  the  several  courts  with 


200 


The  Works  of  [1777 


the  determination  of  America  to  maintain  at  all 
events  our  independence.  You  will  see,  by  the  date 
of  the  resolution  relating  to  Portugal,  as  well  as  by 
the  above,  that  the  Congress  were  stout  in  the  midst 
of  their  difficulties.  It  would  be  well  to  sound  the 
court  of  Spain  on  the  subject  of  permitting  our  armed 
ships  to  bring  prizes  into  her  ports,  and  there  dispose 
of  them.  If  it  can  be  done  openly,  in  what  manner 
can  we  be  accommodated  with  the  use  of  their  ports, 
or  under  what  restrictions  ?  This  government  has  of 
late  been  a  little  nice  on  that  head;  and  the  orders 
to  L 'Orient  have  occasioned  Captain  Wickes  some 
trouble. 

We  have  good  advice  of  our  friend  at  Amsterdam, 
that  in  the  height  of  British  pride  on  their  summer 
success,  and  just  before  they  heard  of  any  check, 
the  ambassador,  Sir  Joseph  Yorke,  had  been  ordered 
to  send  a  haughty  memorial  to  the  States,  import- 
ing that,  notwithstanding  their  promises  to  restrain 
their  subjects  from  supplying  the  rebels,  it  was  no- 
torious, that  those  supplies  were  openly  furnished  by 
Hollanders  at  St.  Eustatia;  and  that  the  governor 
of  that  island  had  returned,  from  his  fort,  the  salute  of 
a  rebel  ship  of  war  with  an  equal  number  of  guns;  that 
his  Majesty  justly  and  highly  resented  these  pro- 
ceedings, and  demanded  that  the  States  should  by 
more  severe  provisions  restrain  that  commerce ;  that 
they  should  declare  their  disapprobation  of  the  in- 
solent behavior  of  their  governor,  and  punish  him 
by  an  immediate  recall ;  otherwise  his  Majesty,  who 
knows  what  appertains  to  the  dignity  of  his  crown, 
would  take  proper  measures  to  vindicate  it ;   and  he 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  201 

required  an  immediate  answer.  The  States  coolly 
returned  the  memorial,  with  only  this  answer — that, 
when  the  respect  due  to  sovereigns  was  not  pre- 
served in  a  memorial,  it  ought  not  to  be  expected 
in  an  answer.  But  the  city  of  Amsterdam  took  fire 
at  the  insolence  of  it,  and  instructed  their  deputies 
in  the  States  to  demand  satisfaction  by  the  British 
court's  disavowal  of  the  memorial,  and  the  repri- 
mand of  the  ambassador.  The  States  immediately 
demanded  a  number  of  men-of-war  ships  to  be  in 
readiness.  Perhaps  since  the  bad  news  has  come, 
England  may  be  civil  enough  to  make  up  this  little 
difference. 

Mr.  Deane  is  still  here.  You  desire  our  advice 
about  your  stopping  at  Burgos.  We  are  of  opinion 
that  you  should  comply  with  the  request.  While  we 
are  asking  aid  it  is  necessary  to  gratify  the  desires, 
and  in  some  sort  comply  with  the  humors,  of  those 
we  apply  to.  Our  business  now  is  to  carry  our  point. 
But  I  have  never  yet  changed  the  opinion  I  gave 
in  Congress,  that  a  virgin  State  should  preserve  the 
virgin  character,  and  not  go  about  suitoring  for 
alliances,  but  wait  with  decent  dignity  for  the  appli- 
cations of  others.  I  was  overruled ;  perhaps  for  the 
best. 

With  the  greatest  esteem,  I  am  ever,  dear  sir,  your 
most  obedient  humble  servant,        B.  Franklin.^ 

^  Upon  Franklin's  arrival  in  Paris  he  was  conducted  by  Mr.  Deane  to 
H6tel  Hamburg,  his  own  residence,  in  the  Rue  de  I'Universite,  where 
he  tarried  a  few  weeks.  It  proved  too  public  a  place  for  a  lion  of  such 
proportions  as  by  this  time  the  Doctor  had  attained,  and  he  was  but 
too  happy  to  accept  the  invitation  of  M.  Le  Ray  de  Chaumont,  a  warm, 
steadfast,  and  most  usefiol  friend  of  the  Americans,  to  accept  a  house, 


202  The  Works  of  [1777 

DCL 

TO    M.    LITH 

Passy,  6  April,  1777. 

Sir  : — I  have  just  been  honored  with  a  letter  from 
you,  dated  the  26th  past,  in  which  you  express  your- 
self as  astonished,  and  appear  to  be  angry,  that  you 
have  no  answer  to  a  letter  you  wrote  me  on  the  nth 
of  December,  which  you  are  sure  was  delivered  to  me. 

or  dependance,  as  the  French  call  it,  of  his  country  place,  the  H6tel 
Valentinois,  at  Passy,  then  about  three  miles  from  Paris,  but  included 
within  the  city  limits  during  the  Second  Empire.  It  was  from  there 
this  letter  was  written.  Besides  its  greater  seclusion,  the  relations 
which  M.  de  Chaumont  held  with  the  court  and  ministry  gave  to  this 
residence  advantages  which  did  not  escape  the  sagacious  eye  of  the 
American  envoy.  As  Dr.  FrankHn  continued  to  occupy  this  house 
for  the  entire  nine  years  of  his  sojourn  in  France,  and  to  entertain 
with  M.  de  Chavimont  and  his  descendants  relations  of  cordial  friend- 
ship and  intimacy  till  the  end  of  his  life,  I  will  here  insert  a  letter 
from  the  grandson  of  Dr.  Franklin's  host,  written  to  the  Editor  in 
1863,  giving  details  of  M.  Le  Ray  de  Chaumont,  of  his  rank  and  influ- 
ence, and  of  his  devotion  to  the  American  cause,  which  are  not  generally 
known: 

"Before  I  have  the  honor  of  seeing  again  your  Excellency,  I  beg 
leave  to  say  a  few  words  of  my  family,  which  may  not  be  wholly  un- 
interesting to  you,  and  which  are  important  to  me. 

"At  the  time  when  Franklin  and  the  other  Commissioners  came  to 
France,  my  grandfather,  Grandmaitre  des  Eaux  et  Forets  de  France, 
Intendant  honoraire  des  Invalides,  was  enjoying  a  well-earned  repose 
and  a  fortune  of  two  millions  of  francs,  at  his  Chateau  of  Chaumont  on 
the  Loire,  and  at  Passy,  near  Paris. 

"The  Due  de  Choiseul,  his  friend  and  neighbor  in  the  country,  had 
wished  him  to  enter  the  ministry  with  him ;  but  my  grandfather  refused 
in  order  to  be  an  intermediary  between  the  Government  and  the  Com- 
missioners. He  received  them  in  a  house  in  his  Pare  at  Passy,  whence 
many  letters  from  Franklin  are  dated. 

"I  take  the  liberty  of  referring  your  Excellency  to  the  copy  of  a 
letter  from  B.  Franklin  to  President  Washington,  here  enclosed.* 

"At  one  time  he  sent  clothing  to  General  Lafayette's  army,  and,  as 

*  See  this  letter,  dated  June  3,  1789,  in  its  place.  Also  the  letter  of  Franklin  to  the 
President  of  Congress,  dated  April  12,  178s. — Editor. 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  203 

In  exculpation  of  myself,  I  assure  you  that  I  never 
received  any  letter  from  you  of  that  date.  And  in- 
deed, being  then  but  four  days  landed  at  Nantes,  I 
think  you  could  scarce  have  heard  so  soon  of  my  be- 
ing in  Europe. 

But  I  received  one  from  you  of  the  8th  of  January, 
which  I  own  I  did  not  answer.  It  may  displease  you 
if  I  give  you  the  reason;  but,  as  it  may  be  of  use  to 
you  in  your  future  correspondences,  I  will  hazard  that 
for  a  gentleman  to  whom  I  feel  myself  obliged,  as  an 
American,  on  account  of  his  good-will  to  our  cause. 

Whoever  writes  to  a  stranger  should  observe  three 
points.  I.  That  what  he  proposes  be  practicable. 
2.  His  propositions  should  be  made  in  explicit  terms, 
so  as  to  be  easily  understood.  3.  What  he  desires 
should  be  in  itself  reasonable.  Hereby  he  will  give 
a  favorable  impression  of  his  imderstanding,   and 

friend  of  the  General's  wife's  family,  he  had  constant  and  friendly 
intercotirse  with  the  General. 

"When  Paid  Jones  came  to  France,  the  confidence  of  the  Govern- 
ments of  the  United  States  and  France  entrusted  my  grandfather  with 
the  difficult  task  of  superintending  the  fitting  out  of  the  expedition. 
This  was  rendered  more  delicate  by  P.  Jones's  irascible  and  capricious 
temper.  In  fact,  this  brave  but  imprudent  man  behaved  improperly 
with  regard  to  my  grandfather,  but  afterwards  apologized. 

"During  my  father's  protracted  stay  in  America,  he  married  a  Miss 
Coxe  of  New  Jersey;  he  entered  largely,  in  connection  with  Gouvemeur 
Morris  and  Count  de  La  Forest,  Consul-General  of  France  (with  both 
of  whom  he  maintained  through  life  a  warm  and  intimate  friendship), 
in  ptirchases  of  wild  lands  in  the  State  of  New  York.  This  necessitated 
several  journeys,  and  finally  his  setthng  in  America. 

"My  father  was  naturalized  an  American  citizen.  I  have  the 
honor  of  bearing  the  same  title,  although  bom  in  France;  and  my 
son,  whose  mother  was  an  American  (of  the  Livingston  family),  was 
bom  in  New  York." 

In  1867  the  writer  of  this  letter  was  still  living,  and  taking  a  Hvely 
interest  in  the  fortxines  of  the  republic  which  his  father  and  grand- 
father had  helped  to  nurse  in  its  infancy. — Editor. 


204  The  Works  of  [1777 

create  a  desire  of  further  acquaintance.  Now  it  hap- 
pened that  you  were  neghgent  in  all  these  points: 
for,  first,  you  desired  to  have  means  procured  for  you 
of  taking  a  voyage  to  America  "  avec  surete,"  which 
is  not  possible,  as  the  dangers  of  the  sea  subsist 
always,  and  at  present  there  is  the  additional  danger 
of  being  taken  by  the  English.  Then  you  desire  that 
this  may  be  ''sans  trap  grandes  depenses,"  which  is 
not  intelHgible  enough  to  be  answered,  because,  not 
knowing  your  ability  of  bearing  expenses,  one  cannot 
judge  what  may  be  trap  grandes.  Lastly,  you  desire 
letters  of  address  to  the  Congress  and  to  General 
Washington ;  which  it  is  not  reasonable  to  ask  of  one 
who  knows  no  more  of  you,  than  that  your  name  is 
Lith,  and  that  you  live  at  Bayreuth. 

In  your  last  you  also  express  yourself  in  vague 
terms,  when  you  desire  to  be  informed  whether  you 
may  expect  "d'etre  regu  d'une  maniere  convenabW  in 
our  troops.  As  it  is  impossible  to  know  what  your 
ideas  are  of  the  maniere  convenahle,  how  can  one  an- 
swer this?  And  then  you  demand  whether  I  will 
support  you  by  my  authority  in  giving  you  letters  of 
recommendation.  I  doubt  not  your  being  a  man  of 
merit ;  and,  knowing  it  yourself,  you  may  forget  that 
it  is  not  known  to  everybody;  but  reflect  a  moment, 
sir,  and  you  will  be  convinced  that,  if  I  were  to  prac- 
tise giving  letters  of  recommendation  to  persons  of 
whose  character  I  knew  no  more  than  I  do  of  yours, 
my  recommendations  would  soon  be  of  no  authority 
at  all. 

I  thank  you,  however,  for  your  kind  desire  of  being 
serviceable  to  my  countrymen;  and  I  wish,  in  return, 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  205 

that  I  could  be  of  service  to  you  in  the  scheme  you 
have  formed  of  going  to  America.  But  numbers  of 
experienced  officers  here  have  offered  to  go  over  and 
join  our  army,  and  I  could  give  them  no  encourage- 
ment, because  I  have  no  orders  for  that  purpose, 
and  I  know  it  is  extremely  difficult  to  place  them 
when  they  arrive  there.  I  cannot  but  think,  there- 
fore, that  it  is  best  for  you  not  to  make  so  long,  so 
expensive,  and  so  hazardous  a  voyage,  but  to  take 
the  advice  of  your  friends,  and  ''stay  in  Franconia/' 
I  have  the  honor  to  be,  sir,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


DCLI 


TO  COUNT  D  ARANDA,  SPANISH  AMBASSADOR  TO  THE 
COURT  OF  FRANCE 

Passy,  7  April,  1777. 

Sir: — I  left  in  your  Excellency's  hands,  to  be  com- 
municated, if  you  please,  to  your  court,  a  duplicate  of 
the  commission  from  Congress,  appointing  me  to  go 
to  Spain  as  their  Minister  Plenipotentiary.  But,  as 
I  understand  that  the  receiving  such  a  minister  is  not 
at  present  thought  convenient,  and  I  am  sure  the 
Congress  would  have  nothing  done  that  might  in- 
commode in  the  least  a  court  they  so  much  respect, 
I  shall  therefore  postpone  that  journey  till  circum- 
stances may  make  it  more  suitable.  In  the  mean- 
time I  beg  leave  to  lay  before  his  Catholic  Majesty, 
through  the  hands  of  your  Excellency,  the  proposi- 


2o6  The  Works  of  [1777 

tions  contained  in  a  resolution  of  Congress,  dated 
December  30,  1776,  viz.: 

"That,  if  his  Cathohc  Majesty  will  join  with  the 
United  States  in  a  war  against  Great  Britain,  they 
will  assist  in  reducing  to  the  possession  of  Spain  the 
town  and  harbor  of  Pensacola ;  provided  the  inhabi- 
tants of  the  United  States  shall  have  the  free  naviga- 
tion of  the  Mississippi,  and  the  use  of  the  harbor  of 
Pensacola;  and  will  (provided  it  shall  be  true,  that 
his  Portuguese  Majesty  has  insultingly  expelled  the 
vessels  of  these  States  from  his  ports,  or  has  confis- 
cated any  such  vessels)  declare  war  against  the  said 
king,  if  that  measure  shall  be  agreeable  to,  and  sup- 
ported by,  the  courts  of  France  and  Spain." 

It  is  understood  that  the  strictest  union  subsists 
between  those  two  courts;  and  in  case  Spain  and 
France  should  think  fit  to  attempt  the  conquest  of 
the  English  sugar  islands,  Congress  have  further  pro- 
posed to  furnish  provisions  to  the  amount  of  two 
millions  of  dollars,  and  to  join  the  fleet  employed 
on  the  occasion  with  six  frigates  of  not  less  than 
twenty -four  guns  each,  manned  and  fitted  for  ser- 
vice ;  and  to  render  any  other  assistance  which  may 
be  in  their  power,  as  becomes  good  allies,  without 
desiring  for  themselves  the  possession  of  any  of  the 
said  islands. 

These  propositions  are  subject  to  discussion,  and 
to  receive  such  modification  as  may  be  found  proper. 
With  great  respect,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  207 

DCLII 

TO    MR.    RYBOT 

Passy,  9  April,  1777. 

Sir: — I  believe  it  is  very  unusual  for  one  man  to 
pay  another's  debts  without  being  desired  so  to  do 
by  the  debtor,  or  knowing  that  he  acknowledges  the 
sum  demanded  to  be  due.  Mr.  Hood  is  as  much  a 
stranger  to  me  as  he  is  to  you.  You  have  lent  him 
three  guineas;  I  have  lent  him  thirty,  supposing 
him  an  honest  man.  By  the  account  you  give 
me  of  his  treatment  of  you,  and  which  I  do  not 
doubt,  he  appears  to  be  otherwise;  and  from  the 
falsehoods  he  told  you  and  wrote  to  you,  there  is  rea- 
son to  question  the  truth  of  what  he  has  said  of  his 
estate  and  ability  to  pay.  These  are  certainly  no 
inducements  to  me  to  advance  more  on  his  account. 
The  letters  he  brought  for  me  were  of  small  conse- 
quence, and  the  packets  contained  only  newspapers. 
The  benefit  therefrom  which  you  suppose  I  received 
by  your  helping  him  on  to  Paris,  is  vastly  less  than 
the  damage  I  shall  suffer  by  his  coming  thither,  if  I 
am  not  repaid ;  and  I  imagine  that  if  a  man  entrusted 
with  carrying  letters  to  you  should  obtain  a  credit 
by  showing  them,  you  would  hardly  think  yourself 
obliged  to  pay  his  debts.  In  the  memorandum  you 
left  with  me  you  have  not  given  your  address  in 
London.     Send  me  that,  if  you  please. 

I  shall  take  the  same  care  and  pains  to  recover 
your  money  as  my  own,  and  when  recovered  shall 
faithfully  remit  it  to  you.     This  seems  to  me  all  that 


2o8  The  Works  of  [1777 

you  can  fairly  desire  of,  sir,  your  most  obedient, 
humble  servant, 

B.  Franklin. 


DCLIII 

TO    RICHARD    BACHE,    ESQ. 

Passy  near  Paris,  14  April,  1777. 

Dear  Son: — The  bearer,  Mr.  Guez,  being  well 
recommended  to  me  as  a  skilful  surgeon,  and  other- 
wise of  good  character  for  his  morals  and  prudence, 
I  recommend  him  to  your  civilities  and  advice,  which 
as  a  stranger  he  may  have  occasion  for;  and  as  he 
has  not  sufficient  to  pay  his  passage  here,  and  will 
not  be  able  to  provide  such  a  sum  immediately 
there,  I  desire  you  to  advance  it  for  him  out  of  my 
money  left  in  your  hands,  and  take  his  bond  for 
repayment  in  a  year.  I  request  likewise  that  you 
will  endeavor  to  introduce  him  to  some  employment 
either  in  the  army  or  navy;  or  if  those  are  full,  into 
some  town  or  place  where  one  of  his  profession  may 
be  wanted.  Ben  and  Temple  continue  well,  with 
your  affectionate  father,  B.  Franklin. 


DCLIV 


TO    THE    BISHOP    OF   TRICOMIE 

Passy,  22  April,  1777. 

Reverend  Sir  : — Mr.  Mercley,  whom  your  Rever- 
ence mentions  as  having  made  promises  to  Mon- 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  209 

sieur,  your  brother,  was  employed  as  a  merchant  to 
purchase  some  military  stores  for  the  Congress,  but 
I  know  of  no  authority  that  he  had  to  engage  officers 
of  the  marine,  or  to  make  any  promises  to  such  in 
our  behalf.  I  have  not  myself  (as  I  have  already  had 
the  honor  of  telling  your  Reverence)  the  least  author- 
ity from  the  Congress  to  make  promises  to  officers 
to  encourage  their  going  to  America;  and  since  my 
arrival  in  France  I  have  constantly  dissuaded  all  who 
have  applied  to  me,  from  undertaking  the  voyage, 
as  I  know  how  difficult  it  would  be  for  them  to  find 
employment,  a  few  engineers  and  officers  of  the 
artillery  excepted,  who  are  gone.  Nevertheless  if 
your  brother  continues  resolved  to  go  thither  at  his 
own  expense  and  risk  of  finding  or  not  finding  em- 
ployment, which  I  cannot  advise  him  to  do,  I  will 
give  him  letters  of  introduction  to  gentlemen  there, 
recommending  him  to  their  civilities ;  but  I  must  at 
the  same  time  caution  him  against  having  any  reli- 
ance on  those  letters  as  a  means  of  procuring  him  a 
command  in  our  armies,  since  I  am  by  no  means  sure 
they  will  have  any  such  effect.  I  will,  if  you  please, 
give  him  a  letter  to  General  Washington;  but  then 
I  should  have  the  state  of  his  services  to  enclose ;  and 
if  accompanied  with  recommendations  from  some 
general  officers  of  note,  it  will  be  so  much  the  better. 

My  door  is  never  shut  to  your  Reverence  when  I 
am  at  home,  as  I  am  almost  every  evening. 

With  great  respect  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  your 
Reverence's  most  obedient  and  most  humble 
servant, 

B.  Franklin. 


2IO  The  Works  of  [1777 

DCLV 

TO  HIS  EXCELLENCY  THE  VISCOUNT  DE  PONTE  DE 
LIMA,  MINISTER  FOR  FOREIGN  AFFAIRS  OF  THE 
KINGDOM    OF    PORTUGAL 

Paris,  26  April,  1777. 

Sir: — The  Congress  of  the  United  States  of 
America  have  seen  with  concern  in  the  public  news- 
papers an  edict  of  the  late  King  of  Portugal,  dated 
at  the  Palace  of  Ajuda  the  4th  of  July,  1776,  wherein 
the  States  are  spoken  of  in  terms  of  contumely,  and  all 
ships  belonging  to  their  people  then  in  the  ports  of 
Portugal  are  ordered  to  quit  the  same  in  eight  days ; 
and  that  for  the  future  in  all  the  ports  of  the  Portu- 
guese dominions  no  shelter  shall  be  given  to  any 
vessels  laden  or  in  ballast  coming  from  any  of  the 
ports  of  the  said  States;  but  on  the  contrary  they 
are  to  be  repelled  from  the  said  ports,  and  in  the  con- 
dition they  entered,  without  giving  them  the  least 
succor  of  any  kind  whatsoever. 

As  a  long  friendship  and  commerce  has  subsisted 
between  the  Portuguese  and  the  inhabitants  of  North 
America,  whereby  Portugal  has  been  supplied  with 
the  most  necessary  commodities  in  exchange  for  her 
superfluities,  and  not  the  least  injury  has  ever  been 
committed  or  even  attempted  or  imagined  by  Amer- 
ica to  that  kingdom,  the  United  States  cannot  but 
be  astonished  to  find  not  only  their  commerce  re- 
jected, but  their  navigators  who  may  need  a  port 
when  in  distress  refused  the  common  rights  of  hu- 
manity, a  conduct  towards  the  said  States  not  only 
unprecedented,  but  which  we  are  confident  will  not 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  211 

be  followed  by  any  other  power  in  Europe;  all  the 
rest  having  considered  our  difference  with  and  sepa- 
ration from  England  as  a  matter  of  which  they  were 
not  constituted  judges,  and  therefore  have  not  under- 
taken to  condemn  either  party,  without  hearing  or 
enquiry,  but  allow  our  ships  of  all  kinds  the  same 
freedom  of  their  ports  as  is  allowed  to  those  be- 
longing to  England  and  the  same  privileges  of 
commerce.  We,  therefore,  being  Ministers  of  the 
Congress  of  the  said  United  States,  have  been  charged 
by  them  to  represent  to  your  court  their  sincere 
desire  to  live  in  peace  with  all  mankind,  and  par- 
ticularly with  your  nation,  which  they  have  ever 
esteemed  and  respected;  and  that  they  hope  your 
government  in  its  wisdom  will  reconsider  and  revoke 
the  said  edict,  and  permit  the  continuance  of  the 
said  friendly  and  commercial  intercourse  between 
your  people  and  theirs,  which  has  ever  been  so  ad- 
vantageous to  both.  This  representation  we  ac- 
cordingly hereby  make;  and  as  an  early  step  to 
growing  misunderstandings  may  have  beneficial 
consequences  to  all  concerned,  we  cannot  but  hope 
for  a  favorable  and  speedy  answer. 

With  great  regard,  we  have  the  honor  to  be,  etc. 


DCLVI 


TO    HIS    EXCELLENCY   THE    AMBASSADOR    FROM 
PORTUGAL 

Paris,  26  April,  1777. 

Sir: — The  Congress  of  the  United  States  of  Amer- 
ica have  seen  a  paper  purporting  to  be  an  edict  of 


212  The  Works  of  [1777 

His  Portuguese  Majesty,  dated  at  the  Palace  of 
Ajuda  the  4th  of  July,  1776,  in  which  the  said  States 
are  treated  with  contumely,  their  ships  however  dis- 
tressed, forbidden  to  enter  any  port  in  his  dominions, 
and  his  subjects  everywhere  forbidden  to  afford  them 
the  least  shelter  or  relief.  But  as  this  instrument 
has  not  been  communicated  to  the  Congress  with  any 
circumstance  of  authenticity,  and  appears  only  in 
gazettes  which  frequently  contain  fictitious  pieces 
not  to  be  relied  on;  as  a  long  friendship  and  com- 
merce has  subsisted  between  the  Portuguese  and  the 
inhabitants  of  North  America,  whereby  Portugal  has 
been  supplied  with  the  most  necessary  commodities 
in  exchange  for  her  superfluities,  and  not  the  least 
injury  has  ever  been  committed  or  even  offered  by 
America  to  that  kingdom,  the  United  States  can 
scarcely  bring  themselves  to  believe  that  the  said 
edict  is  genuine,  and  that  Portugal,  which,  but  little 
more  than  a  century  since,  was  with  respect  to  its 
former  government  in  a  situation  similar  to  theirs, 
should  be  the  first  to  reproach  them  with  it  as  a 
crime  that  rendered  them  unworthy  of  the  common 
rights  of  humanity,  and  should  be  the  only  power  in 
Europe  that  has  rejected  their  commerce  and  as- 
sumed to  judge  of  their  cause,  and  condemn  them 
without  authority,  hearing,  or  enquiry.  We,  there- 
fore, being  Ministers  of  the  Congress  of  the  said 
United  States,  have  been  charged  by  them  to  repre- 
sent to  his  most  faithful  Majesty  their  sincere  desire 
to  live  in  peace  with  all  mankind,  and  particularly 
with  his  nation ;  that  if  he  has  been  by  their  enemies 
surprised  into  the  issuing  such  an  edict,  he  would  be 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  213 

pleased  in  his  wisdom  to  reconsider  and  revoke  it; 
and  that  he  would  henceforth  permit  the  continu- 
ance of  the  said  friendly  and  commercial  intercourse 
between  his  people  and  theirs,  which  has  ever  been 
so  advantageous  to  both.  This  representation  we 
now  take  the  liberty  of  making  to  your  court  through 
the  medium  of  your  Excellency;  and  whatever 
might  have  been  its  reception  if  it  had  been  made 
before  the  late  change,  we  do  not  now  allow  ourselves 
to  doubt  of  its  having  in  due  time  a  favorable  an- 
swer, being  persuaded  from  the  equitable  character 
of  the  present  government  that  the  measure  in 
question  cannot  be  approved  of,  and  such  unworthy 
treatment  continued  towards  an  inoffensive  and 
friendly  people. 

With  great  respect,  we  have  the  honor  to  be  your 
Excellency's  most  obedient  and  most  humble  ser- 
vants, 

B.  Franklin, 
Silas  Deane, 
Arthur  Lee, 
Commissioners  Plenipotentiary  for  the  United 
States  of  North  America. 


DCLVII 


TO    THOMAS    GUSHING 


Paris,  i  May,  1777. 

Sir: — I  thank  you  for  your  kind  congratulations 
on  my  arrival  here,  and  shall  be  happy  in  finding 


214  The  Works  of  [1777 

that  our  negotiations  on  this  side  of  the  water  are  of 
effectual  service  to  our  country. 

The  general  news  here  is  that  all  Europe  is  arming 
and  preparing  for  war,  as  if  it  were  soon  expected. 
Many  of  the  powers,  however,  have  their  reasons  for 
endeavoring  to  postpone  it,  at  least  a  few  months 
longer. 

Our  enemies  will  not  be  able  to  send  against  us  all 
the  strength  they  intended;  they  can  procure  but 
few  Germans ;  and  their  recruiting  and  impressing  at 
home  goes  on  but  heavily.  They  threaten,  however, 
and  give  out  that  Lord  Howe  is  to  bombard  Boston 
this  summer,  and  Burgoyne,  with  the  troops  from 
Canada,  to  destroy  Providence  and  lay  waste  Con- 
necticut, while  Howe  marches  against  Philadelphia. 
They  will  do  us  undoubtedly  as  much  mischief  as 
they  can ;  but  the  virtue  and  bravery  of  our  country- 
men will,  with  the  blessing  of  God,  prevent  part  of 
what  they  intend,  and  nobly  bear  the  rest.  This 
campaign  is  entered  upon  with  a  mixture  of  rage  and 
despair,  as  their  whole  scheme  of  reducing  us  depends 
upon  its  success ;  the  wisest  of  the  nation  being  clear 
that,  if  this  fails,  administration  will  not  be  able  to 
support  another. 

B.  Franklin. 


DCLVni 

TO    SAMUEL    COOPER 

Paris,  i  May,  1777. 

I  thank  you  for  your  kind  congratulations  on  my 
safe  arrival  here,  and  for  your  good  wishes.     I  am,  as 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  215 

you  supposed,  treated  with  great  civility  and  respect 
by  all  orders  of  people ;  but  it  gives  me  still  greater 
satisfaction  to  find  that  our  being  here  is  of  some  use 
to  our  country.  On  that  head  I  cannot  be  more 
explicit  at  present. 

I  rejoice  with  you  in  the  happy  change  of  affairs  in 
America  last  winter.  I  hope  the  same  train  of  suc- 
cess will  continue  through  the  summer.  Our  ene- 
mies are  disappointed  in  the  number  of  additional 
troops  they  purposed  to  send  over.  What  they  have 
been  able  to  muster  will  not  probably  recruit  their 
army  to  the  state  it  was  in  the  beginning  of  last  cam- 
paign; and  ours,  I  hope,  will  be  equally  numerous, 
better  armed,  and  better  clothed  than  they  have  been 
heretofore. 

All  Europe  is  on  our  side  of  the  question,  as  far 
as  applause  and  good  wishes  can  carry  them.  Those 
who  live  under  arbitrary  power  do  nevertheless  ap- 
prove of  liberty,  and  wish  for  it ;  they  almost  despair 
of  recovering  it  in  Europe;  they  read  the  transla- 
tions of  our  separate  colony  constitutions  with  rap- 
ture; and  there  are  such  numbers  everywhere,  who 
talk  of  removing  to  America,  with  their  families  and 
fortunes,  as  soon  as  peace  and  our  independence 
shall  be  established,  that  it  is  generally  believed  we 
shall  have  a  prodigious  addition  of  strength,  wealth, 
and  arts,  from  the  emigration  of  Europe;  and  it  is 
thought  that  to  lessen  or  prevent  such  emigrations, 
the  tyrannies  established  there  must  relax,  and  allow 
more  liberty  to  their  people.  Hence  it  is  a  common 
observation  here  that  our  cause  is  the  cause  of  all 
mankind,  and  that  we  are  fighting  for  their  liberty 


2i6  The  Works  of  [1777 

in  defending  our  own.  It  is  a  glorious  task  assigned 
us  by  Providence,  which  has,  I  trust,  given  us  spirit 
and  virtue  equal  to  it,  and  will  at  last  crown  it  with 
success.  I  am  ever,  my  dear  friend,  yours  most 
affectionately, 

B.  Franklin. 


DCLIX 


TO   JOHN   WINTHROP 

Paris,  i  May,  1777. 

Dear  Sir: — I  received  your  kind  letter  of  Febru- 
ary 28th,  which  gave  me  great  pleasure.  I  forwarded 
your  letter  to  Dr.  Price,  who  was  well  lately;  but  his 
friends,  on  his  account,  were  under  some  apprehen- 
sions from  the  violence  of  government,  in  conse- 
quence of  his  late  excellent  publications  in  favor  of 
liberty.  I  wish  all  the  friends  of  liberty  and  of  man 
would  quit  that  sink  of  corruption  and  leave  it  to  its 
fate. 

The  people  of  this  country  are  almost  unanimously 
in  our  favor.  The  government  has  its  reasons  for 
postponing  a  war,  but  is  making  daily  the  most  dili- 
gent preparations,  wherein  Spain  goes  hand  in  hand. 
In  the  meantime  America  has  the  whole  harvest  of 
prizes  made  upon  the  British  commerce,  a  kind  of 
monopoly  that  has  its  advantages,  as,  by  affording 
greater  encouragement  to  our  cruisers,  it  increases 
the  number  of  our  seamen,  and  thereby  augments  our 
naval  power. 

The  conduct  of  those  princes  of  Germany  who 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  217 

have  sold  the  blood  of  their  people  has  subjected 
them  to  the  contempt  and  odium  of  all  Europe.  The 
Prince  of  Anspach,  whose  recruits  mutinied  and 
refused  to  march,  was  obliged  to  disarm  and  fetter 
them,  and  drive  them  to  the  seaside  by  the  help  of 
his  guards,  himself  attending  in  person.  In  his  re- 
turn he  was  publicly  hooted  by  mobs  through  every 
town  he  passed  in  Holland,  with  all  sorts  of  reproach- 
ful epithets.  The  King  of  Prussia's  humor  of  oblig- 
ing those  princes  to  pay  him  the  same  toll  per  head 
for  the  men  they  drive  through  his  dominions,  as  used 
to  be  paid  him  for  their  cattle,  because  they  were  sold 
as  such,  is  generally  spoken  of  with  approbation,  as 
containing  a  just  reproof  to  those  tyrants.  I  send 
you  enclosed  one  of  the  many  satires  that  have  ap- 
peared on  this  occasion. ' 

^  This  practical  joke  of  Frederick's  was  fully  warranted  by  the  nature 
of  the  traffic  in  which  his  fellow-sovereigns  were  embarked.  George 
III.,  in  one  of  his  letters  to  Lord  North,  dated  from  Kew,  August  20, 
177s,  said: 

"As  to  the  proposals  transmitted  by  Mr.  Romer,  they  all  end  in 
corps  of  officers,  which  cannot  be  done  but  by  act  of  Parliament ;  the 
only  idea  these  Germans  ought  to  addopt  (sic)  is  the  being  contractors 
for  raising  recruits  and  fixing  the  price  they  will  deliver  them  at  Ham- 
burg, Rotterdam,  and  any  other  port  they  may  propose." 

This  is  very  much  in  the  style  of  a  cattle-trader. 

Schiller,  in  his  Kabalc  und  Licbe,  Act  II.,  Scene  2,  glances  at  the 
ill  repute  in  which  this  white  slave-trading  was  held  in  Germany;  and 
in  a  letter  from  Frederick  to  Voltaire  we  have  his  opinion  again : 

"Je  vous  remercie  du  'Catechism,  des  Souverains,'  production  que 
je  n'attendais  pas  de  M.  le  Landgrave  de  Hesse.  Vous  me  faites  trop 
d'honnetir  de  m'attribuer  son  education.  S'il  etait  sorti  de  mon  ecole, 
il  ne  se  serait  point  fait  Catholique,  et  il  n'aiirait  pas  vendu  ses  sujets 
aux  Anglais  comme  on  vend  le  betail  potir  I'egorger." — CEuvres 
posih.  de  Frederic   tom.  I.,  p.  325. 

The  sympathies  of  Frederick  in  these  days  were  all  with  the  French 
and  Americans  as  against  England.     The  writer  of  the  Correspon- 


2i8  The  Works  of  [1777 

With  best  wishes  of  prosperity  to  yourself  and  to 
my  dear  country,  where  I  hope  to  spend  my  last 
years,  and  lay  my  bones,  I  am  ever,  dear  sir,  your 
affectionate  friend,  B.  Franklin. 


DCLX 

TO    A    FRIEND 

Passy  [date  uncertain]. 

You  know,  my  dear  friend,  that  I  am  not  capable 
of  refusing  you  any  thing  in  my  power,  which  would 
be  a  real  kindness  to  you,  or  any  friend  of  yours;  but, 
when  I  am  certain  that  what  you  request  would  be 
directly  the  contrary,  I  ought  to  refuse  it.  I  know 
that  officers  going  to  America  for  employment  will 
probably  be  disappointed ;  that  our  armies  are  full ; 
that  there  are  a  number  of  expectants  unemployed, 

dance,  secrete  et  inedite,  sur  Louis  XVI.,  Marie  Antoinette,  etc.,  says, 
under  date  of  November  3,  1777,  Vol.  I.,  p.  108: 

"  In  a  letter  which  the  King  of  Prussia  has  written  to  one  of  his  lit- 
erary correspondents  in  Paris,  this  passage  occurs:  'I  send  you  my 
secret  against  hydrophobia;  it  is  certain  that  it  has  failed  in  none  of 
the  trials  I  have  given  it  here.  It  should  be  administered  to  the 
British  Parliament,  which  acts  Hke  an  infuriated  fool  in  the  American 
business.  It  is  now  about  to  embroil  itself  again  with  Russia.  I 
have  the  abiding  hope  that  you  will  don  your  cuirass  against  this 
God  dem;  that  you  will  aid  the  colonies  to  become  free,  and  retake 
Canada,  which  they  so  wrongfully  took  from  you.  It  is  the  wish  of 
my  heart,  and  it  should  be  also  the  dictate  of  policy." 

The  same  authority  cites  another  letter  from  the  same  source  to 
D'Alembert,  just  two  weeks  later,  in  which  the  king  says:  "I  like 
these  brave  fellows,  and  cannot  help  secretly  hoping  for  their  success. 
It  must  be  admitted  that  you  are  very  pacific." 

In  less  than  three  months  from  this  time  the  alliance  between  the 
colonies  and  France  was  signed. 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  219 

and  starving  for  want  of  subsistence ;  that  my  recom- 
mendation will  not  make  vacancies,  nor  can  it  fill 
them,  to  the  prejudice  of  those  who  have  a  better 
claim;  that  some  of  those  officers  I  have  been  pre- 
vailed on  to  recommend  have,  by  their  conduct, 
given  no  favorable  impression  of  my  judgment  in 
military  merit ;  and  then  the  voyage  is  long,  the  pas- 
sage very  expensive,  and  the  hazard  of  being  taken 
and  imprisoned  by  the  English  very  considerable. 
If,  after  all,  no  place  can  be  found  affording  a  liveli- 
hood for  the  gentleman  in  question,  he  will  perhaps 
be  distressed  in  a  strange  country,  and  ready  to 
blaspheme  his  friends,  who,  by  their  solicitations, 
procured  for  him  so  unhappy  a  situation. 

Permit  me  to  mention  to  you,  that,  in  my  opinion, 
the  natural  complaisance  of  this  country  often  carries 
people  too  far  in  the  article  of  recommendations.  You 
give  them  with  too  much  facility  to  persons  of  whose 
real  characters  you  know  nothing,  and  sometimes 
at  the  request  of  others  of  whom  you  know  as  little. 
Frequently,  if  a  man  has  no  useful  talents,  is  good 
for  nothing  and  burdensome  to  his  relations,  or  is  in- 
discreet, profligate,  and  extravagant,  they  are  glad  to 
get  rid  of  him  by  sending  him  to  the  other  end  of  the 
world;  and  for  that  purpose  scruple  not  to  recom- 
mend him  to  those  they  wish  should  recommend  him 
to  others  as  ''  un  bon  sujet,  plein  de  merite,''  etc.,  etc. 
In  consequence  of  my  crediting  such  recommenda- 
tions, my  own  are  out  of  credit,  and  I  cannot  advise 
anybody  to  have  the  least  dependence  on  them.  If, 
after  knowing  this,  you  persist  in  desiring  my  recom- 
mendation for  this  person,  who  is  known  neither  to 


220  The  Works  of  [1777 

me  nor  to  you,  I  will  give  it,  though,  as  I  said  before, 
I  ought  to  refuse  it.* 

These  applications  are  my  perpetual  torment. 
People  will  believe,  notwithstanding  my  repeated 
declarations  to  the  contrary,  that  I  am  sent  hither  to 
engage  officers.  In  truth,  I  never  had  any  such 
orders.  It  was  never  so  much  as  intimated  to  me, 
that  it  would  be  agreeable  to  my  constituents.  I 
have  even  received  for  what  I  have  done  of  the  kind, 
not  indeed  an  absolute  rebuke,  but  some  pretty 
strong  hints  of  disapprobation.  Not  a  day  passes 
in  which  I  have  not  a  number  of  soliciting  visits, 
besides  letters.  If  I  could  gratify  all,  or  any  of  them, 
it  would  be  a  pleasure.  I  might,  indeed,  give  them 
the  recommendation  and  the  promises  they  desire, 
and  thereby  please  them  for  the  present;  but,  when 
the  certain  disappointment  of  the  expectations  with 

*  For  cases  of  this  kind,  and  where  it  was  absolutely  impossible  to 
refuse,  Dr.  Franklin  drew  up  the  following  as  a  model  for  such  letters 
of  recommendation,  and  actually  employed  it  in  some  instances,  to 
shame  the  persons  making  such  indiscreet  applications;  and  to  en- 
deavor, in  some  measure,  to  put  a  stop  to  them. — ^W.  T.  F. 

Model  of  a  Letter  of  Recommendation  of  a  person  you  are  unacquainted 

with. 

"  Paris,  2  April,  1777. 

"Sir: — The  bearer  of  this,  who  is  going  to  America,  presses  me  to 
give  him  a  letter  of  recommendation,  though  I  know  nothing  of  him, 
not  even  his  name.  This  may  seem  extraordinary,  but  I  assure  you 
it  is  not  uncommon  here.  Sometimes,  indeed,  one  xanknown  person 
brings  another  equally  unknown,  to  recommend  him;  and  sometimes 
they  recommend  one  another!  As  to  this  gentleman,  I  must  refer 
you  to  himself  for  his  character  and  merits,  with  which  he  is  certainly 
better  acquainted  than  I  can  possibly  be.  I  recommend  him,  however, 
to  those  civilities,  which  every  stranger,  of  whom  one  knows  no  harm, 
has  a  right  to;  and  I  request  you  will  do  him  all  the  good  oflfices,  and 
show  him  all  the  favor,  that,  on  further  acquaintance,  you  shall  find 
him  to  deserve.      I  have  the  honor  to  be,  etc." 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  221 

which  they  will  so  obstinately  flatter  themselves 
shall  arrive,  they  must  curse  me  for  complying  with 
their  mad  requests,  and  not  undeceiving  them;  and 
will  become  so  many  enemies  to  our  cause  and 
country. 

You  can  have  no  conception  how  I  am  harassed. 
All  my  friends  are  sought  out  and  teazed  to  teaze  me. 
Great  officers  of  all  ranks,  in  all  departments;  ladies, 
great  and  small,  besides  professed  solicitors,  worry 
me  from  morning  to  night.  The  noise  of  every  coach 
now  that  enters  my  court  terrifies  me.  I  am  afraid 
to  accept  an  invitation  to  dine  abroad,  being  almost 
sure  of  meeting  with  some  officer  or  officer's  friend, 
who,  as  soon  as  I  am  put  in  good  humor  by  a  glass 
or  two  of  champagne,  begins  his  attack  upon  me. 
Luckily  I  do  not  often  in  my  sleep  dream  of  these 
vexatious  situations,  or  I  should  be  afraid  of  what  are 
now  my  only  hours  of  comfort.  If,  therefore,  you 
have  the  least  remaining  kindness  for  me,  if  you 
would  not  help  to  drive  me  out  of  France,  for  God's 
sake,  my  dear  friend,  let  this,  your  twenty-third 
application,  be  your  last.     Yours,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


DCLXI 

TO    GEORGE    WASHINGTON 

Paris,  13  June,  1777. 

Sir: — The  bearer,  M.  le  Comte  Kotkouski,  a 
Polish  officer,  is  recommended  to  me  by  several  per- 
sons of  worth  here,  as  a  man  of  experience  in  military 


222  The  Works  of  [1777 

affairs,  and  of  tried  bravery.  He  has  lost  his  family 
and  estate  in  Poland,  by  fighting  there  in  the  cause 
of  liberty,  and  wishes,  by  engaging  in  the  same  cause, 
to  find  a  new  country  and  new  friends  in  America. 
Count  Pulaski,  who  was  a  general  of  the  confederates 
in  Poland,  and  who  is  gone  to  join  you,  is  esteemed 
one  of  the  greatest  officers  in  Europe.  He  can  give 
you  the  character  of  this  M.  Kotkouski,  who  served 
under  him  as  lieutenant-colonel. 

It  is  with  regret  that  I  give  letters  of  introduction 
to  foreign  officers,  fearing  that  you  may  be  troubled 
with  more  than  you  can  provide  for,  or  employ  to 
their  and  your  own  satisfaction.  When  particular 
cases  seem  to  have  a  claim  to  such  letters,  I  hope 
you  will  excuse  my  taking  the  liberty.  I  give  no 
expectations  to  those  who  apply  for  them ;  I  promise 
nothing;  I  acquaint  them,  that  their  being  placed 
when  they  arrive  is  a  great  uncertainty,  and  that,  the 
voyage  being  long,  expensive,  and  hazardous,  I  coun- 
sel them  not  to  undertake  it.  This  honest  gentle- 
man's zeal  is  not  to  be  discouraged  by  such  means; 
he  determines  to  go  and  serve  as  a  volunteer,  if  he 
cannot  be  employed  immediately  as  an  officer ;  but  I 
wish  and  hope  that  your  Excellency  may  find  a  better 
situation  for  him,  and  that  he  will  be  a  useful  officer. 
He  has  the  advantage  of  understanding  English,  and 
will  soon  speak  it  intelligently.  He  also  speaks  Ger- 
man, and  some  other  European  languages,  and  the 
Latin.  With  the  truest  esteem  and  respect,  I  have 
the  honor  to  be,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


17773  Benjamin  Franklin  223 

DCLXII 

TO    GEORGE    WASHINGTON 

Paris,  13  June,  1777. 

Sir: — The  person  who  will  have  the  honor  of  de- 
livering this  to  your  Excellency  is  Monsieur  le  Baron 
de  Frey,  who  is  well  recommended  to  me  as  an  officer 
of  experience  and  merit,  with  a  request  that  I  would 
give  him  a  letter  of  introduction.  I  have  acquainted 
him  that  you  are  rather  overstocked  with  officers,  and 
that  his  obtaining  employment  in  your  army  is  an  un- 
certainty ;  but  his  zeal  for  the  American  cause  is  too 
great  for  any  discouragements  I  can  lay  before  him, 
and  he  goes  over  at  his  own  expense,  to  take  his 
chance,  which  is  a  mark  of  attachment  that  merits 
our  regard.  He  will  show  your  Excellency  the  com- 
missions and  proofs  of  his  military  service  hitherto, 
and  I  beg  leave  to  recommend  him  to  your  notice. 
With  the  sincerest  esteem  and  respect, 

B.  Franklin. 


DCLXIII 

TO    CAPT.    JOHNSON 

Passy,  July  22,  1777. 

Sir: — The  bearer,  M.  Le  Chevr.  de  Kninon,  who 
is  desirous  of  going  to  America,  is  well  recommended 
to  me  as  a  person  of  character  and  merit.  If  he  takes 
his  passage  with  you,  I  make  no  doubt  that  you  will 
treat  him  with  all  the  civilities  due  to  a  gentleman,  in 
which  you  will  very  much  oblige,  sir,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


224  The  Works  of  [1777 

DCLXIV 

TO    GEN.    WASHINGTON 

Passy  near  Paris,  4  September,  1777. 

Sir  : — The  gentleman  who  will  have  the  honor  of 
waiting  upon  you  with  this  letter  is  the  Baron  de 
Steuben,  lately  a  lieutenant-general  in  the  king  of 
Prussia's  service,  whom  he  attended  in  all  his  cam- 
paigns, being  his  aide-de-camp,  quartermaster-gen- 
eral, etc.  He  goes  to  America  with  a  true  zeal  for 
our  cause,  and  a  view  of  engaging  in  it  and  render- 
ing it  all  the  service  in  his  power.  He  is  recom- 
mended to  us  by  two  of  the  best  judges  of  military 
merit  in  this  country,  M.  de  Vergennes  and  M.  de  St. 
Germain,  who  have  long  been  personally  acquainted 
with  him,  and  interest  themselves  in  promoting  his 
voyage,  from  a  full  persuasion  that  the  knowledge 
and  experience  he  has  acquired  by  twenty  years' 
study  and  practice  in  the  Prussian  school  may  be  of 
great  use  in  our  armies.  I  therefore  cannot  but  wish 
that  our  service  may  be  made  agreeable  to  him. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  etc. 


DCLXV 


TO    RICHARD    PETERS 


Passy,  12  September,  1777. 

Sir: — The  bearer,  M.  Gerard,  is  recommended  to 
me  by  M.  Dubourg,  a  gentleman  of  distinction  here, 
and  a  hearty  friend  to  our  cause.     I  enclose  his  let- 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  225 

ter,  that  you  may  see  the  favorable  manner  in  which 
he  speaks  of  M.  Gerard.  I  thereupon  take  the  lib- 
erty of  recommending  the  young  gentleman  to  your 
civilities  and  advice,  as  he  will  be  quite  a  stranger 
there,  and  to  request  that  you  would  put  him  in 
the  way  of  serving  as  a  volunteer  in  our  armies.  I 
am,  sir,  etc.,  B.  Franklin. 


DCLXVI 

TO    DAVID    HARTLEY 

Passy,  14  October,  1777. 

Dear  Sir: — I  received  duly  your  letter  of  May  2d, 
including  a  copy  of  one  you  had  sent  me  the  year 
before,  which  never  came  to  hand,  and  which  it 
seems  has  been  the  case  with  some  I  wrote  to  you 
from  America.  Filled  though  your  letters  have 
always  been  with  sentiments  of  good-will  to  both 
countries,  and  earnest  desires  of  preventing  their 
ruin  and  promoting  their  mutual  felicity,  I  have 
been  apprehensive  that,  if  it  were  known  that  a 
correspondence  subsisted  between  us,  it  might  be 
attended  with  inconvenience  to  you.  I  have  there- 
fore been  backward  in  writing,  not  caring  to  trust 
the  post,  and  not  well  knowing  whom  else  to  trust 
with  my  letters.  But  being  now  assured  of  a  safe 
conveyance,  I  venture  to  write  to  you,  especially 
as  I  think  the  subject  such  a  one  as  you  may  receive 
a  letter  upon  without  censure. 

Happy  should  I  have  been  if  the  honest  warnings 


226  The  Works  of  [1777 

I  gave  of  the  fatal  separation  of  interests,  as  well  as 
of  affections,  that  must  attend  the  measures  com- 
menced while  I  was  in  England,  had  been  attended 
to,  and  the  horrid  mischief  of  this  abominable  war 
been  thereby  prevented.  I  should  still  be  happy  in 
any  successful  endeavors  for  restoring  peace,  con- 
sistent with  the  liberties,  the  safety,  and  the  honor  of 
America.  As  to  our  submitting  to  the  government 
of  Great  Britain,  it  is  vain  to  think  of  it.  She  has 
given  us,  by  her  numberless  barbarities  (by  her 
malice  in  bribing  slaves  to  murder  their  masters, 
and  savages  to  massacre  the  families  of  farmers; 
with  her  baseness  in  rewarding  the  unfaithfulness 
of  servants,  and  debauching  the  virtue  of  honest 
seamen  intrusted  with  our  property)  in  the  prose- 
cution of  the  war,  and  in  the  treatment  of  the  pris- 
oners, so  deep  an  impression  of  her  depravity,  that 
we  never  again  can  trust  her  in  the  management  of 
our  affairs  and  interests.  It  is  now  impossible  to 
persuade  our  people,  as  I  long  endeavored,  that  the 
war  was  merely  ministerial,  and  that  the  nation  bore 
still  a  good-will  to  us.  The  infinite  number  of  ad- 
dresses printed  in  your  gazettes,  all  approving  the 
conduct  of  your  government  towards  us,  and  en- 
couraging our  destruction  by  every  possible  means, 
the  great  majority  in  Parliament  constantly  mani- 
festing the  same  sentiments,  and  the  popular  public 
rejoicings  on  occasion  of  any  news  of  the  slaughter 
of  an  innocent  and  virtuous  people,  fighting  onl}^ 
in  defence  of  their  just  rights;  these,  together  with 
the  recommendations  of  the  same  measures  by  even 
your  celebrated  moralists  and  divines,  in  their  writ- 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  227 

ings  and  sermons,  that  are  still  approved  and  ap- 
plauded in  your  great  national  assemblies,  all  join 
in  convincing  us  that  you  are  no  longer  the  magnan- 
imous, enlightened  nation  we  once  esteemed  you,  and 
that  you  are  unfit  and  unworthy  to  govern  us,  as  not 
being  able  to  govern  your  own  passions. 

But,  as  I  have  said,  I  should  be  nevertheless  happy 
in  seeing  peace  restored.  For  though,  if  my  friends, 
and  the  friends  of  liberty  and  virtue,  who  still  remain 
in  England,  could  be  drawn  out  of  it,  a  continuance 
of  this  vv^ar  to  the  ruin  of  the  rest  would  give  me  less 
concern,  I  cannot,  as  that  removal  is  impossible,  but 
wish  for  peace  for  their  sakes,  as  well  as  for  the  sake 
of  humanity,  and  preventing  further  carnage. 

This  wish  of  mine,  ineffective  as  it  may  be,  induces 
me  to  mention  to  you  that,  between  nations  long 
exasperated  against  each  other  in  war,  some  act  of 
generosity  and  kindness  towards  prisoners  on  one 
side  has  softened  resentment,  and  abated  animosity 
on  the  other,  so  as  to  bring  on  an  accommodation. 
You  in  England,  if  you  wish  for  peace,  have  at 
present  the  opportunity  of  trying  this  means  with 
regard  to  the  prisoners  now  in  your  gaols.  They 
complain  of  very  severe  treatment.  They  are  far 
from  their  friends  and  families,  and  winter  is  coming 
on,  in  which  they  must  suffer  extremely  if  continued 
in  their  present  situation:  fed  scantily  on  bad  pro- 
visions, without  warm  lodging,  clothes,  or  fire,  and 
not  suffered  to  invite  or  receive  visits  from  their 
friends,  or  even  from  the  humane  and  charitable  of 
their  enemies. 

I  can  assure  you,  from  my  own  certain  knowledge, 


228  The  Works  of  [1777 

that  your  people,  prisoners  in  America,  have  beea 
treated  with  great  kindness;  they  have  been  served 
with  the  same  rations  of  wholesome  provisions  with 
our  own  troops,  comfortable  lodgings  have  been 
provided  for  them,  and  they  have  been  allowed  large 
bounds  of  villages  in  the  healthy  air,  to  walk  and 
amuse  themselves  with  on  their  parole.  Where  you 
have  thought  fit  to  employ  contractors  to  supply  your 
people,  these  contractors  have  been  protected  and 
aided  in  their  operations.  Some  considerable  act  of 
kindness  towards  our  people  would  take  off  the 
reproach  of  inhumanity  in  that  respect  from  the 
nation,  and  leave  it  where  it  ought  with  more  cer- 
tainty to  lie,  on  the  conductors  of  your  war  in  Amer- 
ica. This  I  hint  to  you,  out  of  some  remaining 
good-will  to  a  nation  I  once  loved  sincerely.  But, 
as  things  are,  and  in  my  present  temper  of  mind,  not 
being  over-fond  of  receiving  obligations,  I  shall  con- 
tent myself  with  proposing  that  your  government 
would  allow  us  to  send  or  employ  a  commissary  to 
take  some  care  of  those  unfortunate  people.  Per- 
haps on  your  representations  this  might  speedily 
be  obtained  in  England,  though  it  was  refused  most 
inhumanly  at  New  York. 

If  you  could  have  leisure  to  visit  the  gaols  in  which 
they  are  confined,  and  should  be  desirous  of  knowing 
the  truth  relative  to  the  treatment  they  receive,  I 
wish  you  would  take  the  trouble  of  distributing 
among  the  most  necessitous,  according  to  their  wants, 
five  or  six  hundred  pounds,  for  which  your  drafts  on 
me  here  shall  be  punctually  honored.  You  could 
then  be  able  to  speak  with  some  certainty  to  the 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  229 

point  in  Parliament,  and  this  might  be  attended  with 
good  effects. 

If  you  cannot  obtain  for  us  permission  to  send  a 
commissary,  possibly  you  may  find  a  trusty,  humane, 
discreet  person  at  Plymouth,  and  another  at  Ports- 
mouth, who  would  undertake  to  communicate  what 
relief  we  may  be  able  to  afford  those  unfortunate 
men,  martyrs  to  the  cause  of  liberty.  Your  king  will 
not  reward  you  for  taking  this  trouble,  but  God  will. 
I  shall  not  mention  the  gratitude  of  America;  you 
will  have  what  is  better — the  applause  of  your  own 
good  conscience.  Our  captains  have  set  at  liberty 
above  two  hundred  of  your  people,  made  prisoners 
by  our  armed  vessels  and  brought  into  France,  be- 
sides a  great  number  dismissed  at  sea  on  your  coasts, 
to  whom  vessels  were  given  to  carry  them  in.  But 
you  have  not  returned  us  a  man  in  exchange.  If  we 
had  sold  your  people  to  the  Moors  at  Sallee,  as  you 
have  many  of  ours  to  the  African  and  East  India 
Companies,  could  you  have  complained  ? 

In  revising  what  I  have  written,  I  found  too  much 
warmth  in  it,  and  was  about  to  strike  out  some  parts. 
Yet  I  let  them  go,  as  they  will  afford  you  this  one 
reflection:  "  If  a  man  naturally  cool,  and  rendered 
still  cooler  by  old  age,  is  so  warmed  by  our  treatment 
of  his  country,  how  much  must  those  people  in  gen- 
eral be  exasperated  against  us?  And  why  are  we 
making  inveterate  enemies  by  our  barbarity,  not  only 
of  the  present  inhabitants  of  a  great  country,  but  of 
their  infinitely  more  numerous  posterity,  who  will  in 
future  ages  detest  the  name  of  Englishman,  as  much 
as  the  children  in  Holland  now  do  those  of  Alva  and 


230  The  Works  of  [1777 

Spaniard/'  This  will  certainly  happen,  unless  your 
conduct  is  speedily  changed,  and  the  national  resent- 
ment falls,  where  it  ought  to  fall  heavily,  on  your 
ministry,  or  perhaps  rather  on  the  king,  whose  will 
they  only  execute. 

With  the  greatest  esteem  and  affection,  and  best 
wishes  for  your  prosperity,  I  have  the  honor  to  be, 
dear  sir,  etc.,  B.  Franklin. 


DCLXVII 

TO    A    FRIEND  ^ 

Passy,  14  October,  1777. 

Sir: — I  am  much  obliged  by  your  communication 
of  the  letter  from  England.  I  am  of  your  opinion, 
that  it  is  not  proper  for  publication  here.  Our 
friend's  expressions  concerning  Mr.  Wilson  will  be 
thought  too  angry  to  be  made  use  of  by  one  philoso- 
pher when  speaking  of  another,  and  on  a  philosophi- 
cal question.  He  seems  as  much  heated  about  this 
one  point  as  the  Jansenists  and  Molinists  were  about 
the  five.     As  to  my  writing  any  thing  on  the  subject, 

^  A  controversy  had  lately  been  raised  among  the  philosophers  in 
England  respecting  pointed  and  blunt  lightning  conductors.  Mr. 
Wilson  was  the  champion  for  bltint  conductors,  in  opposition  to  the 
theory  of  Dr.  Franklin.  Pointed  conductors  had  been  erected  at  the 
queen's  palace,  but  by  the  advice  of  Mr.  Wilson  they  were  taken 
do-vvn,  and  blunt  ones  substituted  in  their  place.  Dr.  Ingenhousz, 
who  was  then  in  England,  took  tip  the  subject  with  considerable 
warmth  against  Mr.  Wilson,  and  wrote  a  letter  to  a  gentleman  in 
Paris,  which  he  desired  might  be  shown  to  Dr.  Franklin.  The  above 
letter  was  written  to  that  gentleman,  who,  as  requested,  had  com- 
municated the  one  he  received  from  Dr.  Ingenhousz. 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  231 

which  you  seem  to  desire,  I  think  it  not  necessary, 
especially  as  I  have  nothing  to  add  to  what  I  have 
already  said  upon  it  in  a  paper  read  to  the  commit- 
tee '  who  ordered  the  conductors  at  Purfleet,  which 
paper  is  printed  in  the  last  French  edition  of  my 
writings. 

I  have  never  entered  into  any  controversy  in  de- 
fence of  my  philosophical  opinions;  I  leave  them  to 
take  their  chance  in  the  world.  If  they  are  right, 
truth  and  experience  will  support  them;  if  wrong, 
they  ought  to  be  refuted  and  rejected.  Disputes  are 
apt  to  sour  one's  temper,  and  disturb  one's  quiet.  I 
have  no  private  interest  in  the  reception  of  my  inven- 
tions by  the  world,  having  never  made,  nor  proposed 
to  make,  the  least  profit  by  any  of  them.  The  king's 
changing  his  pointed  conductors  for  Hunt  ones  is, 
therefore,  a  matter  of  small  importance  to  me.  If  I 
had  a  wish  about  it,  it  would  be  that  he  had  rejected 
them  altogether  as  ineffectual.  For  it  is  only  since 
he  thought  himself  and  family  safe  from  the  thunder 
of  Heaven  that  he  dared  to  use  his  own  thunder  in 
destroying  his  innocent  subjects.  I  am,  sir,  yours, 
etc.,  B.  Franklin. 


DCLXVIII 

TO    CAPTAIN   THOMPSON    AND    C.    HINMAN 

Paris,  25  November,  1777. 

Sir: — We  advise  you  on  your  return  to  L 'Orient 
to  put  your  ship  in  readiness  for  sea, — Capt.  Hinman 

^  "Report  on  Lightning  Conductors  for  the  Powder  Magazines  at 
Purfleet,"  drawn  up  by  Dr.  Franklin,  August  21,  1772.  See  that 
date. 


232  The  Works  of  [1777 

will  do  the  same, — and  after  you  have  obtained  the 
best  intelligence  to  be  had  of  the  British  merchant- 
ships  and  property.  As  it  is  by  no  means  safe  to  re- 
turn into  the  ports  of  France,  you  will  calculate  your 
stores,  so  as  to  have  a  sufficiency  for  your  cruise, 
which  we  cannot  indeed  be  particular  in  the  direc- 
tion of.  It  has  been  suggested  that  one  or  more  of 
the  India  ships  returning  may  be  intercepted,  that 
part  of  the  West  India  homeward-bound  ships  may 
be  expected  about  this  time,  as  well  as  transports  re- 
turning from  New  York  and  elsewhere  in  America, 
and  that  by  cruising  in  the  proper  latitudes  you  may 
meet  with  them.  That  the  British  factories  and 
commerce  on  the  African  coast  at  this  time  lie  with- 
out any  force  sufficient  to  protect  them,  and  that  by 
running  along  that  coast  you  may  greatly  annoy  and 
distress  the  enemy  in  that  quarter,  and  afterwards  go 
for  the  West  Indies. 

As  you  and  Captain  Hinman  have  already  consid- 
ered these  several  plans  for  a  cruise,  we  leave  with 
you  to  determine  which  to  prefer,  and  the  manner 
in  prosecuting  either,  or  any  other  that  may  appear 
more  likely  to  answer  the  design  of  your  commission. 
We  are  happy  in  observing  the  harmony  and  confi- 
dence which  subsists  between  you  and  Captain  Hin- 
man, and  hope  the  same  prevails  between  your 
officers  and  men,  which  we  are  certain  you  will  cul- 
tivate through  the  whole  of  your  expedition,  in  which 
we  recommend  to  you,  to  avoid  giving  any  offence  to 
the  flags  of  neutral  powers,  and  to  show  them  proper 
marks  of  respect  and  friendship.  As  you  may  meet 
with  vessels  of  the  enemy  so  near  the  coast  of  Eu- 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  233 

rope,  that  you  may  be  under  the  necessity  of  sending 
them  into  some  port  of  France,  we  advise  you  to  agree 
with  Messrs.  Goularde,  etc.,  on  the  method  of  conduct 
in  such  case,  previous  to  your  departure,  and  give 
orders  to  the  officers  to  whom  you  give  the  command 
of  such  prizes,  accordingly  thereto.  Whenever  you 
judge  it  prudent  to  dismiss  prisoners,  subjects  of  his 
Britannic  Majesty,  we  advise  you  to  take  from  them 
in  writing  an  acknowledgment  of  their  having  been 
your  prisoners,  their  quality,  place  of  residence,  and 
that  they  are  dismissed  by  you  in  confidence  that  an 
equal  number  of  the  subjects  of  the  thirteen  United 
States  of  the  same  rank,  that  now  are,  or  may  here- 
after be  prisoners  to  his  said  Britannic  Majesty  will 
be  set  at  liberty.  You  are  also  to  deliver  a  cop}^  of 
such  writing  to  the  prisoners,  enjoining  them  to  de- 
liver the  same  on  their  arrival  in  Britain  to  the  Lords 
of  the  British  Admiralty,  and  by  the  first  opportunity 
inclose  a  duplicate  to  the  committee  or  board  of 
marine  in  Boston,  and  another  to  us,  with  an  account 
of  your  proceedings.  We  shall  deliver  Captain  Hin- 
man  a  copy  of  this  letter,  who  will  proceed  in  concert 
with  you  in  the  cruise. 

With  best  wishes — [incomplete] 


DCLXIX 

TO    MR.    THORNTON 


You  will  receive  herewith  a  letter  to  Lord  North 
and  another  to  Sir  Grey  Cooper,  Secretary  of  the 


234  The  Works  of  [1777 

Treasur}^  to  which  you  are  to  endeavor  to  obtain 
answers. 

As  the  purpose  is  to  obtain  permission  to  visit  and 
examine  into  the  condition  of  our  people  in  their 
gaols,  and  administer  to  their  relief,  we  hope  a  re- 
quest so  consonant  to  humanity  will  not  be  refused. 
But  if  you  cannot  obtain  such  permission,  yet  (if  not 
absolutely  forbidden)  we  desire  you  would  endeavor 
to  see  the  prisoners,  take  an  account  of  their  names, 
the  rank  or  quality  they  served  in,  the  state  they 
belonged  to,  in  what  vessel  and  by  whom  they  were 
taken,  and  such  other  particulars  as  may  tend  to  give 
us  perfect  information  of  their  circumstances. 

But  before  you  leave  London  to  visit  the  prisoners, 
wait  on  Mr.  Hartley  (for  whom  also  you  have  a  letter 
which  you  will  deliver  as  soon  as  you  arrive)  and 
desire  his  advice  or  orders;  and  if  he  should  be  so 
kind  as  to  give  you  any  relating  to  the  premises,  you 
are  to  follow  the  same  pimctually  in  your  future 
proceedings. 

You  will  receive  herewith  fifty  guineas  for  travel- 
ling expenses,  of  which  you  will  render  an  account. 

We  wish  you  a  good  journey,  being,  sir,  your  most 
humble  servants.* 

I  On  the  23d  February  of  this  year  the  Commissioners  wrote  to 
Lord  Stormont,  the  British  Ambassador  in  Paris,  proposing  to  ex- 
change 100  British  seamen,  prisoners  taken  by  the  American  frigate 
Reprisal,  for  an  equal  number  of  American  captives  in  England.  Of 
this  letter  Stormont  took  no  notice.  The  Commissioners  then  wrote 
another,  which  does  not  appear  however  to  have  been  sent.  They 
then  sent  another,  which  Stormont  acknowledged  in  these  insolent 
terms: 

"  The  King's  Ambassador  receives  no  applications  from  rebels,  unless 
they  come  to  implore  his  Majesty's  mercy." 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  235 

DCLXX 

TO    SIR    GREY    COOPER 

Paris,  ii  December,  1777. 

Dear  Sir  : — Receiving  frequent  accounts  by  Amer- 
ican prisoners  who  have  escaped  from  your  gaols,  of 
the  miserable  situation  and  hard  treatment  of  their 
countrymen  at  Portsmouth  and  Plymouth,  we  have 
prevailed  with  a  gentleman,  Major  Thornton  (to  us  a 
stranger,  but  who  appears  a  man  of  humanity),  to 
visit  the  prisons  there,  and  give  from  us  some  relief  to 
those  unfortunate  men.  I  hope  that  through  your 
interest  he  may  obtain  a  permission  for  that  purpose. 
I  have  wished  that  some  voluntary  act  of  compassion 
on  the  part  of  your  government  towards  those  in 
your  power  had  appeared  in  abating  the  rigors  of 
their  confinement,  and  relieving  their  pressing  neces- 
sities, as  such  generosity  towards  enemies  has  natur- 
ally an  effect  in  softening  and  abating  animosity  in 
their  compatriots  and  disposing  to  reconciliation. 
This,  if  I  had  any  influence  with  your  ministers  I 
should  recommend  as  prudent ;  being  what  would  at 

The  Commissioners  retiimed  this  missive  with  one  signed  by  them- 
selves and  couched  in  the  following  terms : 

"In  answer  to  a  letter  which  concerns  some  of  the  most  material 
interests  of  humanity  and  of  the  two  nations,  Great  Britain  and  the 
United  States  of  America,  now  at  war,  we  received  the  enclosed  in- 
decent paper  as  coming  from  your  Lordship,  which  we  return  for  your 
Lordship's  more  mature  consideration." 

There  were  probably  not  a  thousand  Americans  in  the  English 
prisons,  but  they  were  badly  treated  and  provoked  a  very  voluminous 
correspondence  between  agents  of  the  governments,  and  a  very 
bitter  feeling  in  America  towards  the  English  Government.  For  an 
instructive  review  of  this  correspondence  see  Hale's  Franklin  in 
France,  Chap.  XI. 


236  The  Works  of  [1777 

least  secure  a  continuance  of  that  kind  usage  your 
people  have  always  experienced  with  us.  Mr.  Thorn- 
ton is  charged  with  a  letter  to  Lord  North,  which  I 
request  you  would  procure  him  an  opportunity  of 
delivering,  and  endeavoring  to  obtain  an  answer; 
perhaps  it  may  not  be  thought  proper  to  give  any; 
but  I  am  sure  it  will  not  be  an  insolent  one  like  that 
from  Lord  Stormont  to  a  similar  application.  The 
remembrance  of  ancient  friendship  encourages  me  to 
request  this.  If  it  is  too  much,  you  can  prevent  a 
repetition  of  it  by  making  no  reply.  With  my 
affectionate  respects  to  Lady  Cooper,  and  love  to 
my  former  young  friends,  I  am  ever,  dear  sir,  your 
most  obedient,  humble  servant, 

B.  Franklin. 


DCLXXI 

TO   JAMES    LOVELL  ^ 

Paris,  21  December,  1777. 

Sir: — I  see  in  a  vote  of  Congress  shown  to  me  by 
Captain  Franval,  that  Mr.  Deane  is  disowned  in  some 
of  his  agreements  with  officers.  I,  who  am  upon  the 
spot,  and  know  the  infinite  difficulty  of  resisting  the 
powerful  solicitations  of  great  men,  who  if  disobliged 
might  have  it  in  their  power  to  obstruct  the  supplies 
he  was  then  obtaining,  do  not  wonder  that,  being 
then  a  stranger  to  the  people,  and  unacquainted  with 

^  A  member  of  Congress  from  Massachusetts,  and  for  several  years 
a  member  of  the  Committee  of  Foreign  Affairs,  in  which  capacity  he 
corresponded  with  the  American  commissioners  and  ministers  in 
Europe, 


I777I  Benjamin  Franklin  237 

the  language,  he  was  at  first  prevailed  on  to  make 
some  such  agreements,  when  all  were  recommended, 
as  they  always  are,  as  offlciers  experimentes,  braves 
comme  leurs  epees,  pleins  de  courage,  de  talents,  et  de 
zele  pour  notre  cause,  etc.,  etc.,  in  short,  mere  Caesars, 
each  of  whom  would  have  been  an  invaluable  acqui- 
sition to  America.  You  can  have  no  conception  how 
we  are  still  besieged  and  worried  on  this  head,  our 
time  cut  to  pieces  by  personal  applications,  besides 
those  contained  in  dozens  of  letters  by  every  post, 
which  are  so  generally  refused  that  scarce  one  in  a 
hundred  obtains  from  us  a  simple  recommendation  to 
civilities. 

I  hope,  therefore,  that  favorable  allowance  will  be 
made  to  my  worthy  colleague  on  account  of  his  situa- 
tion at  the  time,  as  he  has  long  since  corrected  that 
mistake,  and  daily  approved  himself,  to  my  certain 
knowledge,  an  able,  faithful,  active,  and  extremely 
useful  servant  of  the  public ;  a  testimony  I  think  it 
my  duty  of  taking  this  occasion  to  make  to  his  merit, 
unasked,  as,  considering  my  great  age,  I  may  prob- 
ably not  live  to  give  it  personally  in  Congress,  and  I 
perceive  he  has  enemies. ' 

You  will  see  the  general  news  in  the  papers  in  par- 
ticular; I  can  only  say  at  present,  that  our  affairs 
go  well  here;  and  that  I  am,  with  much  respect,  sir, 
etc.,  B.  Franklin. 

I  Silas  Deane  was  recalled  by  Congress,  in  November,  1776,  mainly- 
through  the  influence  of  Arthur  Lee.  Congress  never  formulated  any 
charges  against  him,  neither  did  it  pass  any  vote  of  censure  or  approba- 
tion of  his  ofificial  conduct.  He  returned  to  France  in  1780,  but  felt 
so  aggrieved  by  the  treatment  he  had  received,  that  he  finally  allowed 
himself  to  enter  into  relations  with  the  English  Government,  which 


238  The  Works  of  [1777 

DCLXXII 

A  DIALOGUE  BETWEEN  BRITAIN,  FRANCE,  SPAIN,  HOL- 
LAND,   SAXONY,    AND    AMERICA 

Britain.  Sister  of  Spain,  I  have  a  favor  to  ask  of 
you.  My  subjects  in  America  are  disobedient,  and  I 
am  about  to  chastise  them ;  I  beg  you  will  not  furnish 
them  with  any  arms  or  ammunition. 

Spain.  Have  you  forgotten,  then,  that  when  my 
subjects  in  the  Low  Countries  rebelled  against  me, 
you  not  only  furnished  them  with  military  stores,  but 
joined  them  with  an  army  and  a  fleet?  I  wonder 
how  you  can  have  the  impudence  to  ask  such  a  favor 
of  me,  or  the  folly  to  expect  it! 

Britain.  You,  my  dear  sister  France,  will  surely 
not  refuse  me  this  favor. 

France.  Did  you  not  assist  my  rebel  Huguenots 
with  a  fleet  and  an  army  at  Rochelle?  And  have 
you  not  lately  aided  privately  and  sneakingly  my 
rebel  subjects  in  Corsica?  And  do  you  not  at  this 
instant  keep  their  chief  pensioned,  and  ready  to  head 
a  fresh  revolt  there,  whenever  you  can  find  or  make 
an  opportunity?  Dear  sister,  you  must  be  a  little 
silly! 

Britain.  Honest  Holland!  You  see  it  is  remem- 
bered I  was  once  your  friend;  you  will  therefore  be 
mine  on  this  occasion.  I  know,  indeed,  you  are  ac- 
customed to  smuggle  with  these  rebels  of  mine.  I 
will  wink  at  that ;  sell  them  as  much  tea  as  you  please, 

compromised  him  seriously  for  a  time  at  least,  with  his  country  people, 
and  failed  to  shield  him  from  the  humiliations  of  extreme  poverty 
and  exile  in  his  declining  years. 


1 77 7]  Benjamin  Franklin  239 

to  enervate  the  rascals,  since  they  will  not  take  it  of 
me;  but  for  God's  sake  don't  supply  them  with  any 
arms! 

Holland.  'T  is  true  you  assisted  me  against  Philip, 
my  tyrant  of  Spain,  but  have  I  not  assisted  you 
against  one  of  your  tyrants  *;  and  enabled  you  to 
expel  him?  Surely  that  account,  as  we  merchants 
say,  is  balanced,  and  I  am  nothing  in  your  debt.  I 
have  indeed  some  complaints  against  you,  for  en- 
deavoring to  starve  me  by  your  Navigation  Acts; 
but,  being  peaceably  disposed,  I  do  not  quarrel  with 
you  for  that.  I  shall  only  go  on  quietly  with  my 
own  business.  Trade  is  my  profession ;  't  is  all  I 
have  to  subsist  on.  And,  let  me  tell  you,  I  shall 
make  no  scruple  (on  the  prospect  of  a  good  market 
for  that  commodity)  even  to  send  my  ships  to  Hell 
and  supply  the  Devil  with  brimstone.  For  you 
must  know,  I  can  insure  in  London  against  the  burn- 
ing of  my  sails. 

America  to  Britain.  Why,  you  old  bloodthirsty 
bully!  You,  who  have  been  everywhere  vaunting 
your  own  prowess,  and  defaming  the  Americans  as 
poltroons !  You,  who  have  boasted  of  being  able  to 
march  over  all  their  bellies  with  a  single  regiment! 
You,  who  by  fraud  have  possessed  yourself  of  their 
strongest  fortress,  and  all  the  arms  they  had  stored 
up  in  it !  You,  who  have  a  disciplined  army  in  their 
coimtry,  intrenched  to  the  teeth,  and  provided  with 
every  thing!  Do  you  run  about  begging  all  Europe 
not  to  supply  those  poor  people  with  a  little  powder 
and  shot?     Do  you  mean,  then,  to  fall  upon  them 

I  James  the  Second. 


240  The  Works  of  [1777 

naked  and  unarmed,  and  butcher  them  in  cold  blood  ? 
Is  this  your  courage?     Is  this  your  magnanimity? 

Britain.  Oh!  you  wicked— Whig — Presbyterian 
— Serpent !  Have  you  the  impudence  to  appear  be- 
fore me  after  all  your  disobedience?  Surrender  im- 
mediately all  your  liberties  and  properties  into  my 
hands,  or  I  will  cut  you  to  pieces.  Was  it  for  this 
that  I  planted  your  country  at  so  great  an  expense  ? 
That  I  protected  you  in  your  infancy,  and  defended 
you  against  all  your  enemies  ? 

America.  I  shall  not  surrender  my  liberty  and 
property,  but  with  my  life.  It  is  not  true,  that  my 
country  was  planted  at  your  expense.  Your  own 
records  ^  refute  that  falsehood  to  your  face.  Nor  did 
you  ever  afford  me  a  man  or  a  shilling  to  defend  me 
against  the  Indians,  the  only  enemies  I  had  upon  my 

^  See  the  Journals  of  the  House  of  Commons,  1642,  viz.: 

"Die  Veneris,  Martii  10°,  1642. 

"Whereas  the  plantations  in  New  England  have,  by  the  blessing  of 
Almighty  God,  had  good  and  prosperous  success,  without  any  public 
charge  to  this  State;  and  are  now  likely  to  prove  very  happy  for  the 
propagation  of  the  Gospel  in  those  parts,  and  very  beneficial  and  com- 
modious to  this  kingdom  and  nation ;  the  Commons  now  assembled  in 
Parliament  do,  for  the  better  advancement  of  those  plantations,  and 
the  encouragement  of  the  planters  to  proceed  in  their  undertaking, 
ordain,  that  all  merchandises  and  goods,  that  by  any  merchant,  or 
other  person  or  persons  whatsoever,  shall  be  exported  out  of  this 
kingdom  of  England  into  New  England,  to  be  spent,  used,  or  employed 
there;  or,  being  of  the  growth  of  that  kingdom,  shall  be  from  thence 
imported  hither,  or  shall  be  laden  or  put  on  board  in  any  ship  or  vessel 
for  necessaries  in  passing  or  returning  to  and  fro;  and  all  and  every 
the  owner  or  owners  thereof,  shall  be  freed  and  discharged  of  and 
from  paying  and  yielding  any  custom,  subsidy,  taxation,  imposition, 
or  other  duty  for  the  same,  either  inward  or  outward,  either  in  this 
kingdom  or  New  England,  or  in  any  port,  haven,  creek,  or  other 
place  whatsoever,  until  the  House  of  Commons  shall  take  further 
order  therein  to  the  contrary.  And  all  and  singular  customers,  etc., 
are  to  observe  this  order." 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  241 

own  account.  But,  when  you  have  quarrelled  with 
all  Europe,  and  drawn  me  with  you  into  all  your 
broils,  then  you  value  yourself  upon  protecting  me 
from  the  enemies  you  have  made  for  me.  I  have  no 
natural  cause  of  difference  with  Spain,  France,  or 
Holland,  and  yet  by  turns  I  have  joined  with  you  in 
wars  against  them  all.  You  would  not  suffer  me  to 
make  or  keep  a  separate  peace  with  any  of  them, 
though  I  might  easily  have  done  it  to  great  advan- 
tage. Does  your  protecting  me  in  those  wars  give 
you  a  right  to  fleece  me?  If  so,  as  I  fought  for  you, 
as  well  as  you  for  me,  it  gives  me  a  proportionable 
right  to  fleece  you.  What  think  you  of  an  American 
law  to  make  a  monopoly  of  you  and  your  commerce, 
as  you  have  done  by  your  laws  of  me  and  mine? 
Content  yourself  with  that  monopoly  if  you  are  wise, 
and  learn  justice  if  you  would  be  respected ! 

Britain.     You  impudent  b h !     Am  not  I  your 

mother  country?  Is  not  that  a  sufficient  title  to 
your  respect  and  obedience  ? 

Saxony.  Mother  country!  Ha!  ha!  ha!  What 
respect  have  you  the  front  to  claim  as  a  mother  coun- 
try ?  You  know  that  /  am  your  mother  country,  and 
yet  you  pay  me  none.  Nay,  it  is  but  the  other  day 
that  you  hired  ruffians  ^  to  rob  me  on  the  highway  ^ 
and  bum  my  house !  ^  For  shame !  Hide  your  face 
and  hold  your  tongue !  If  you  continue  this  conduct, 
you  will  make  yourself  the  contempt  of  Europe ! 

Britain.     O  Lord !     Where  are  my  friends  ? 

1  Prussians. 

2  They  entered  and  raised  contributions  in  Saxony. 

3  And  they  burnt  the  fine  suburbs  of  Dresden,  the  capital  of  Saxony. 

VOL.  VII.— 16. 


242  The  Works  of  [1777 

France,  Spain,  Holland,  and  Saxony,  all  together. 
Friends!  Believe  us,  you  have  none,  nor  ever  will 
have  any,  till  you  mend  your  manners.  How  can 
we  who  are  your  neighbors  have  any  regard  for  you, 
or  expect  any  equity  from  you,  should  your  power 
increase,  when  we  see  how  basely  and  unjustly  you 
have  used  both  your  own  mother  and  your  own 
children? 


DCLXXIII 

A    CATECHISM    RELATIVE   TO    THE    ENGLISH    NATIONAL 
DEBT 

Question  i.  Supposing  this  debt  to  be  only  one 
hundred  and  ninety-five  millions  of  pounds  sterling 
at  present,  although  it  is  much  more,"  and  that  was  all 
to  be  counted  in  shillings,  that  a  man  could  count  at 
the  rate  of  one  hundred  shillings  per  minute,  for 
twelve  hours  each  day  till  he  has  counted  the  whole, 
how  long  would  he  take  in  doing  it  ? 

Answer.  One  hundred  and  forty-eight  years  one 
hundred  and  nine  days  and  twenty -two  hours. 

Q.  2.  The  whole  of  this  sum  being  three  thousand 
nine  hundred  millions  of  shillings,  and  the  coinage 
standard  being  sixty-two  in  the  Troy  pound,  what  is 
the  whole  weight  of  this  sum? 

A.  Sixty-one  millions  seven  hundred  and  fifty- 
two  thousand  four  hundred  and  seventy-six  Troy 
pounds. 

»  At  present  (1777)  it  is  said  to  be  at  least  two  htmdred  and  thirty 
millions. 


1777]  Benjamin  Franklin  243 

Q.  3.  How  many  ships  would  carry  this  weight, 
suppose  one  hundred  tons  each? 

A.     Three  hundred  and  fourteen  ships. 

Q.  4.  How  many  carts  would  carry  this  weight, 
suppose  a  ton  in  each  ? 

A.  Thirty-one  thousand  four  hundred  and  fifty- 
two  carts. 

Q.  5.  The  breadth  of  a  shiUing  being  one  inch,  if 
all  these  shillings  were  laid  in  a  straight  line,  close  to 
one  another's  edges,  how  long  would  that  line  be  that 
would  contain  them? 

A.  Sixty-one  thousand  five  hundred  and  fifty- 
two  miles ;  which  is  nine  thousand  five  hundred  and 
seventy-two  miles  more  than  twice  roimd  the  whole 
circumference  of  the  earth. 

Q.  6.  Suppose  the  interest  of  this  debt  to  be  three 
and  a  half  per  cent,  per  annum,  what  does  the  whole 
annual  interest  amount  to  ? 

A .  Six  millions  seven  hundred  and  seventy  thou- 
sand pounds. 

Q.  7 .  How  doth  the  government  raise  this  interest 
annually  ? 

A.  By  taxing  those  who  lent  the  principal,  and 
others. 

Q.  8.  When  will  government  be  able  to  pay  the 
principal  ? 

A.  When  there  is  more  money  in  England's 
treasury  than  there  is  in  all  Europe. 

Q.  9.     And  when  will  that  be? 

A.     Never. 


244  The  Works  of  [1778 

DCLXXIV 

TO    RALPH    IZARD 

Passy,  29  January,  1778. 

Dear  Sir: — I  received  yours  late  last  evening. 
Present  circumstances,  which  I  will  explain  to  you 
when  I  have  the  honor  of  seeing  you,  prevent  my 
giving  it  a  full  answer  now.  The  reasons  you  offer 
had  before  been  all  under  consideration.  But  I  must 
submit  to  remain  some  days  under  the  opinion  you 
appear  to  have  formed,  not  only  of  my  poor  under- 
standing in  the  general  interests  of  America,  but  of 
my  defects  in  sincerity,  politeness,  and  attention  to 
your  instructions.  These  offences,  I  flatter  myself, 
admit  of  fair  excuses,  or  rather  will  be  found  not  to 
have  existed.  You  mention  that  you  feel  yourself 
hurt.  Permit  me  to  offer  you  a  maxim,  which  has 
through  life  been  of  use  to  me,  and  may  be  so  to  you, 
in  preventing  such  imaginary  hurts.  It  is:  "  Always 
to  suppose  one's  friends  may  be  right,  till  one  finds 
them  wrong,  rather  than  to  suppose  them  wrong  till 
one  finds  them  right."  You  have  heard  and  imag- 
ined all  that  can  be  said  or  supposed  on  one  side  of 
the  question,  but  not  on  the  other.  I  am,  neverthe- 
less, with  sincere  esteem,  dear  sir,  your  most  obedi- 
ent and  humble  servant,  B.  Franklin.^ 

I  Mr.  Izard  was  selected  by  Congress  as  a  Commissioner  to  go  to 
Tuscany.  As  there  was  nothing  for  him  to  do  there  at  the  time,  he 
tarried  in  Paris.  The  treaty  of  alliance  was  negotiated  during  his 
stay,  but  his  advice  or  aid  appears  not  to  have  been  solicited.  He 
complained  of  this  to  Dr.  Frankhn,  whom  he  seemed  disposed  to  hold 
responsible  for  what  he  regarded  as  a  lack  of  official  courtesy.  This 
letter  is  the  reply  to  his  complaint.  Izard's  letter  may  be  found  in 
the  Diplomatic  Correspondence,  Vol.  II.,  p.  372.— Editor. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  245 

DCLXXV 

TO   JAMES    HUTTON  ^ 

Passy,  I  February,  1778 

My  Dear  Old  Friend:— You  desired  that  if  I 
had  no  proposition  to  make  I  would  at  least  give  my 
advice.  I  think  it  is  Ariosto  who  says  that  all  things 
lost  on  earth  are  to  be  found  in  the  moon;  on  which 
somebody  remarked  that  there  must  be  a  great  deal 
of  good  advice  in  the  moon.  If  so,  there  is  a  good 
deal  of  mine,  formerly  given  and  lost  in  this  business 
1  will,  however,  at  your  request  give  a  little  more 
but  without  the  least  expectation  that  it  will  be  fol- 
lowed; for  none  but  God  can  at  the  same  time  give 
good  counsel  and  wisdom  to  make  use  of  it. 

You  have  lost  by  this  mad  war,  and  the  barbarity 
with  which  it  has  been  carried  on,  not  only  the  gov- 
ernment and  commerce  of  America,  and  the  public 
revenues  and  private  wealth  arising  from  that  com- 
merce, but  what  is  more,  you  have  lost  the  esteem, 
respect,  friendship,  and  affection  of  all  that  great 
and  growing  people,  who  consider  you  at  present,  and 
whose  posterity  will  consider  you,  as  the  worst  and 
wickedest  nation  upon  earth.  A  peace  you  may  un- 
doubtedly obtain  by  dropping  all  your  pretensions  to 
govern  us;  and,  by  your  superior  skill  in  huckstering 
negotiation,  you  may  possibly  make  such  an  appar- 


246  The  Works  of  [1778 

ently  advantageous  bargain,  as  shall  be  applauded  in 
your  Parliament;  but,  if  you  cannot,  with  the  peace, 
recover  the  affections  of  that  people,  it  will  not  be  a 
lasting  nor  a  profitable  one,  nor  will  it  afford  you 
any  part  of  that  strength,  which  you  once  had  by 
your  union  with  them,  and  might  (if  you  had  been 
wise  enough  to  take  advice)  have  still  retained. 

To  recover  their  respect  and  affection,  you  must 
tread  back  the  steps  you  have  taken.  Instead  of 
honoring  and  rewarding  the  American  advisers  and 
promoters  of  this  war,  you  should  disgrace  them, 
with  all  those  who  have  inflamed  the  nation  against 
America  by  their  malicious  writings,  and  all  the  min- 
isters and  generals  who  have  prosecuted  the  war  with 
such  inhumanity.  This  would  show  a  national 
change  of  disposition,  and  a  disapprobation  of  what 
had  passed. 

In  proposing  terms  you  should  not  only  grant  such 
as  the  necessity  of  your  affairs  may  evidently  oblige 
you  to  grant,  but  such  additional  ones  as  may  show 
your  generosity,  and  thereby  demonstrate  your  good- 
will. For  instance,  perhaps  you  might,  by  your 
treaty,  retain  all  Canada,  Nova  Scotia,  and  the  Flor- 
idas.  But  if  you  would  have  a  real  friendly  as  well 
as  able  ally  in  America,  and  avoid  all  occasion  of  fu- 
ture discord,  which  will  otherwise  be  continually 
arising  on  your  American  frontiers,  you  should  throw 
in  those  countries.  And  you  may  call  it,  if  you 
please,  an  indemnification  for  the  burning  of  their 
towns,  which  indemnification  will  otherwise  be  some 
time  or  other  demanded. 

I  know  your  people  will  not  see  the  utility  of  such 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  247 

measures,  and  will  never  follow  them,  and  even  call  it 
insolence  and  impudence  in  me  to  mention  them.  I 
have,  however,  complied  with  your  desire,  and  am,  as 
ever,  your  affectionate  friend,  B.  Franklin. 

P.  S. — February  12th. — I  wrote  the  above  some 
time  before  I  received  yours,  acquainting  me  with 
your  speedy  and  safe  return,  which  gave  me  pleasure. 
I  doubted  after  I  had  written  it,  whether  it  would  be 
well  to  send  it;  for  as  your  proud  nation  despises 
us  exceedingly,  and  demands  and  expects  absolute 
and  humble  submission,  all  talk  of  treaty  must  ap- 
pear impudence,  and  tend  to  provoke  rather  than 
conciliate.  As  you  still  press  me  by  your  last  to  say 
something,  I  conclude  to  send  what  I  have  written, 
for  I  think  the  advice  is  good,  though  it  must  be  use- 
less; and  I  cannot,  as  some  amongst  you  desire, 
make  propositions,  having  none  committed  to  me  to 
make ;  but  we  can  treat,  if  any  are  made  to  us ;  which, 
however,  we  do  not  expect.  I  abominate  with  you 
all  murder,  and  I  may  add,  that  the  slaughter  of  men 
in  an  unjust  cause  is  nothing  less  than  murder.  I 
therefore  never  think  of  your  present  ministers  and 
their  abettors,  but  with  the  image,  strongly  painted 
in  my  view,  of  their  hands,  red,  wet,  and  dropping 
with  the  blood  of  my  countrymen,  friends,  and  rela- 
tions. No  peace  can  be  signed  by  those  hands. 
Peace  and  friendship  will,  nevertheless,  subsist  for 
ever  between  Mr.  Hutton  and  his  affectionate  friend, 

B.  F. 


248  The  Works  of  [1773 

DCLXXVI 

TO    DAVID    HARTLEY 

Passy,  12  February,  1778. 

Dear  Sir: — A  thousand  thanks  for  your  so  readily 
engaging  in  the  means  of  relieving  our  poor  captives, 
and  the  pains  you  have  taken,  and  the  advances  you 
have  made,  for  that  purpose.  I  received  your  kind 
letter  of  the  3d  instant,  and  send  you  enclosed  a  bill 
of  one  hundred  pounds.  I  much  approve  of  Mr. 
Wren's  prudent  as  well  as  benevolent  conduct  in  the 
disposition  of  the  money,  and  wish  him  to  continue 
doing  what  shall  appear  to  him  and  to  you  to  be 
right,  which  I  am  persuaded  will  appear  the  same  to 
me  and  my  colleagues  here.  I  beg  you  will  present 
him,  when  you  write,  my  respectful  acknowledgments. 

Your  "earnest  caution  and  request,  that  nothing 
may  ever  persuade  America  to  throw  themselves  into 
the  arms  of  France,  for  that  times  may  mend,  and 
that  an  American  must  always  be  a  stranger  in 
France,  but  that  Great  Britain  may  for  ages  to  come 
be  their  home,"  marks  the  goodness  of  your  heart, 
your  regard  for  us,  and  love  of  your  country.  But, 
when  your  nation  is  hiring  all  the  cut-throats  it  can 
collect,  of  all  countries  and  colors,  to  destroy  us,  it  is 
hard  to  persuade  us  not  to  ask  or  accept  aid  from 
any  power  that  may  be  prevailed  with  to  grant  it; 
and  this  only  from  the  hope  that,  though  you  now 
thirst  for  our  blood,  and  pursue  us  with  fire  and 
sword,  you  may,  in  some  future  time,  treat  us  kindly. 
This  is  too  much  patience  to  be  expected  of  us;  in- 
deed, I  think  it  is  not  in  human  nature. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  249 

The  Americans  are  received  and  treated  here  in 
France  with  a  cordiality,  a  respect,  and  affection  they 
never  experienced  in  England  when  they  most  de- 
served it ;  and  which  is  now  (after  all  the  pains  taken 
to  exasperate  the  English  against  them,  and  render 
them  odious  as  well  as  contemptible)  less  to  be  ex- 
pected there  than  ever.  And  I  cannot  see  why  we 
may  not,  upon  an  alliance,  hope  for  a  continuance  of 
it,  at  least,  as  much  as  the  Swiss  enjoy,  with  whom 
France  has  maintained  a  faithful  friendship  for  two 
hundred  years  past,  and  whose  people  appear  to  live 
here  in  as  much  esteem  as  the  natives.  America  has 
been  forced  and  driven  into  the  arms  of  France.  She 
was  a  dutiful  and  virtuous  daughter.  A  cruel  moth- 
er-in-law turned  her  out  of  doors,  defamed  her,  and 
sought  her  life.  All  the  world  knows  her  innocence, 
and  takes  her  part ;  and  her  friends  hope  soon  to  see 
her  honorably  married.  They  can  never  persuade 
her  return  and  submission  to  so  barbarous  an  enemy. 
In  her  future  prosperity,  if  she  forgets  and  forgives, 
it  is  all  that  can  be  reasonably  expected  of  her.  I  be- 
lieve she  will  make  as  good  and  useful  a  wife  as  she 
did  a  daughter,  that  her  husband  will  love  and  honor 
her,  and  that  the  family  from  which  she  was  so  wick- 
edly expelled,  will  long  regret  the  loss  of  her. 

I  know  not  whether  a  peace  with  us  is  desired  in 
England;  I  rather  think  it  is  not  at  present,  unless 
on  the  old  impossible  terms  of  submission  and  receiv- 
ing pardon .  Whenever  you  shall  be  disposed  to  make 
peace  upon  equal  and  reasonable  terms,  you  will  find 
Httle  difficulty,  if  you  get  first  an  honest  ministry. 
The  present  have  all  along  acted  so  deceitfully  and 


250  The  Works  of  [1778 

treacherously,  as  well  as  inhumanly,  towards  the 
Americans,  that  I  imagine  that  the  absolute  want  of 
all  confidence  in  them  to  make  a  treaty,  at  present, 
between  them  and  the  Congress  impracticable. 

The  subscription  for  the  prisoners  will  have  excel- 
lent effects  in  favor  of  England  and  Englishmen. 
The  Scotch  subscriptions  for  raising  troops  to  destroy 
us,  though  amounting  to  much  greater  sums,  v/ill  not 
do  their  nation  half  so  much  good.  If  you  have  an 
opportunity,  I  wish  you  would  express  our  respectful 
acknowledgments  and  thanks  to  your  committee  and 
contributors,  whose  benefactions  will  make  our  poor 
people  as  comfortable  as  their  situation  can  permit. 
Adieu,  my  dear  friend.  Accept  my  thanks  for  the 
excellent  papers  you  enclosed  to  me.  Your  endeav- 
ors for  peace,  though  unsuccessful,  will  always  be  a 
comfort  to  you,  and  in  time,  when  this  mad  war  shall 
be  universally  execrated,  will  be  a  solid  addition  to 
your  reputation.  I  am  ever,  with  the  highest  es- 
teem, etc.,  B.  Franklin. 

P.  S. — An  old  friend  of  mine,  Mr.  Hut  ton,  a  chief 
of  the  Moravians,  who  is  often  at  the  queen's  palace, 
and  is  sometimes  spoken  to  by  the  king,  was  over 
here  lately.  He  pretended  to  no  commission,  but 
urged  me  much  to  propose  some  terms  of  peace, 
which  I  avoided.  He  has  written  to  me  since  his  re- 
turn, pressing  the  same  thing,  and  expressing  with 
some  confidence  his  opinion,  that  we  might  have 
every  thing  short  of  absolute  independence,  etc. 
Enclosed  I  send  my  answers  open,  that  you  may  read 
them,  and,  if  you  please,  copy,  before  you  deliver  or 
forward  them.     They  will  serve  to  show  you  more 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  251 

fully  my  sentiments,  though  they  serve  no  other 
purpose.  B.  F. 


DCLXXVII 

TO    THOMAS    GUSHING 

Passy,  21  February,  1778. 

Sir: — I  received  your  favor  by  Mr.  Austin,  with 
your  most  agreeable  congratulations  on  the  success 
of  the  American  arms  in  the  Northern  Department. ' 

'  Surrender  of  Burgoyne  at  Saratoga.  The  battle  of  Saratoga, 
which  Colonel  Creasy  very  properly  rates  among  the  ten  great  and 
decisive  battles  of  history,  resulted  in  the  stirrender  of  General  Bur- 
goyne with  his  whole  army  on  the  17th  October,  1777.  Following  the 
disasters  of  the  colonial  army  at  Germantown,  this  victory  was  most 
timely,  and  practically  assured  the  ultimate  victory  of  the  American 
arms;  for  it  secured  to  the  colonies  the  open  and  cordial  alliance  of 
France.  The  news,  which  reached  the  American  Commissioners  at 
Passy  on  the  4th  December,  was  received  by  the  French  with  as 
fervent  demonstrations  of  joy  as  if  it  was  a  victory  achieved  by  their 
own  arms.  On  the  12th  a  meeting  of  the  French  Cabinet  was  held, 
and  on  the  17  th  Gerard  informed  Franklin  and  his  colleagues  that 
the  king  had  determined  to  acknowledge  the  independence  of  the 
revolted  colonists,  and  to  sign  a  treaty  with  them.  In  the  same  dis- 
patch, in  which  the  Commissioners  were  authorized  to  transmit  this 
encouraging  news  to  America,  they  were  also  enabled  to  announce  to 
Congress  the  promise  of  3,000,000  livres,  with  the  prospect  of  an 
equal  amotmt  from  Spain.  A  treaty  of  amity  and  commerce  was 
signed  on  the  6th  February,  and  at  once  sent  out  to  America  for 
ratification.  The  same  day  another  treaty  for  a  defensive  alliance 
was  concluded. 

The  news  of  Burgoyne's  defeat  and  capture  was  sent  out  to  the 
Commissioners  in  Paris  by  a  special  messenger,  who  was  secretary 
to  their  Board  of  War,  Mr.  John  Lothrop  Austin;  and  a  vessel  was 
fitted  up  expressly  for  this  business,  such  importance  being  very 
properly  attached  to  the  prompt  delivery  of  this  intelligence  in  Etu-ope. 
He  appears  to  have  been  expected  when  he  arrived  at  Franklin's  resi- 
dence at  Passy,  for  Deane,  the  Lees,  Izard,  Bancroft  the  spy,  Beaumar- 
chais,  and  probably  de  Chaumont,  were  at  the  door  when  the  wheels  of 


252  The  Works  of  [1778 

In  return,  give  me  leave  to  congratulate  you  on  the 
success  of  our  negotiations  here,  in  the  completion  of 
the  two  treaties  with  his  most  Christian  Majesty: 
the  one  of  amity  and  commerce,  on  the  plan  of  that 
proposed  by  Congress,  with  some  good  additions; 
the  other  of  alliance  for  mutual  defence,  in  which  the 

Mr.  Austin  were  heard  in  the  courtyard.  The  tradition  goes  that  before 
the  young  man  had  time  to  aUght,  Franklin  cried  out : 

"Is  Philadelphia  taken?" 

"Yes,  sir."  * 

Upon  hearing  this,  Franklin  clasped  his  hands  as  if  to  go  back  into 
the  house.  "  But,  sir,"  added  Austin,  "  I  have  better  news  than  that. 
General  Burgoyne  and  his  whole  army  are  prisoners  of  war." 

The  news,  said  Deane  some  time  after,  when  describing  the  scene, 
"was  like  a  sovereign  cordial  to  the  dying."  It  reached  London  on 
the  night  of  December  2d,  two  days  before  it  reached  the  Commis- 
sioners in  Paris.  Even  in  ofi&cial  circles  the  gravity  of  the  disaster 
could  not  be  disguised.  Lord  North  said  he  was  willing  to  resign  his 
place  if  by  so  doing  he  could  obtain  peace.  Gibbon,  who  reflected 
the  less  disguised  inquietude  of  outside  circles,  wrote  to  Holroyd  on 
the  4th  December:  "Dreadful  news  indeed!  You  will  see  them  partly 
in  the  papers,  and  we  have  not  yet  any  particulars.  An  English  army 
of  nearly  ten  thousand  men  laid  down  their  arms  and  surrendered 
prisoners  of  war,  on  condition  of  being  sent  to  England,  and  of  never 
serving  against  America.  They  had  fought  bravely  and  were  three 
days  without  eating.  Burgoyne  is  said  to  have  received  three  wounds; 
General  Eraser  with  2,000  men  killed;  Colonel  Acland  likewise  killed. 
A  general  cry  for  peace. ' ' 

The  immediate  effect  of  this  news  was,  as  stated  by  King  George  to 
Lord  North  on  the  day  it  was  received,  "to  entirely  overturn  every 
plan  proposed  for  strengthening  the  army,  under  the  command  of 
Lieutenant-General  Clinton,  with  an  intent  of  carrying  on  an  active  war 
in  North  America.  What  occurs  now  is  to  fix  what  numbers  are 
necessary  to  defend  New  York,  Rhode  Island,  Nova  Scotia,  and  the 
Floridas;   it  is  a  joke  to  think  of  keeping  Pennsylvania." 

Lord  North  was  severely  censured  for  ignorance  of  the  proceedings  of 
the  French  court  since  December  preceding.  His  ignorance,  however, 
has  been  questioned. 

*  Philadelphia  had  fallen  into  Sir  William  Howe's  power  on  the  20th  September  It  was 
felt  as  a  severe  blow  in  America  and  at  Passy,  but  it  did  not  dishearten  Franklin.  "  Well, 
Doctor,"  said  an  Englishman  to  Franklin,  "Howe  has  taken  Philadelphia."  "I  beg 
your  pardon,  sir,"  was  the  reply;  "Philadelphia  has  taken  Howe."  This  jest,  no  doubt 
intended,  in  part  at  least,  to  mask  depression,  proved  prophetic.  See  Browning's  Ben- 
Ihant  Vol.  X.,  p.  527. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  253 

most  Christian  king  agrees  to  make  a  common  cause 
with  the  United  States,  if  England  attempts  to  ob- 
struct the  commerce  of  his  subjects  with  them ;  and 
guarantees  to  the  United  States  their  liberty,  sover- 
eignty, and  independence,  absolute  and  unhmited, 
with  all  the  possessions  they  now  have,  or  may  have, 

On  the  13th  of  March,  1778,  the  Marquis  de  Noailles,  then  French 
Ambassador  in  London,  delivered  to  Lord  Weymouth,  the  EngHsh 
Secretary  of  State,  a  note  formally  announcing  the  treaty  of  amity  and 
commerce,  as  lately  signed  between  France  and  the  United  States.  It 
remarked  that  the  United  States  are  in  full  possession  of  independence, 
as  proclaimed  by  them  on  the  4th  of  July,  1776,  and  then  proceeded 
in  the  following  ironical,  not  to  say  derisive,  terms:  "In  making 
this  comm.unication  to  the  Court  of  London,  the  king  (of  France)  is 
firmly  persuaded  it  will  find  therein  new  proofs  of  his  Majesty's  con- 
stant and  sincere  disposition  for  peace;  and  that  his  Britannic  Majesty, 
animated  by  the  same  sentiments,  will  equally  avoid  every  thing  that 
may  alter  their  good  harmony;  and  he  will  particularly  take  effective 
measures  to  prevent  the  commerce  between  his  Majesty's  subjects  and 
the  United  States  of  North  America  from  being  interrupted." 

Four  days  later  Lord  North  delivered  in  Parliament  a  message  from 
the  throne,  stating  the  receipt  of  information  from  the  French  king, 
that  he  had  concluded  a  treaty  of  amity  and  commerce  with  his 
Majesty's  revolted  subjects  in  America,  in  consequence  of  which 
offensive  communication,  the  British  Ambassador  at  Paris  had  been 
ordered  home. 

On  the  24th  of  March,  Gibbon  wrote  to  Holroyd:  "The  French  Am- 
bassador went  off  yesterday  morning,  not  without  some  slight  ex- 
pression of  ill-humor  from  John  Bull.  Lord  Stormont  is  probably 
arrived  to-day." 

The  battle  of  Saratoga  gave  the  Americans  the  services  of  a  fonni- 
dable  fleet,  abundant  ammunition,  and  miUtary  suppHes;  as  much 
money  as  they  needed,  and  the  no  longer  disguised  sympathies  of  all 
Eiirope.  The  result,  so  far  as  the  independence  of  the  colonies  was 
concerned,  was  already  in  sight. 

General  Burgoyne  was  an  illegitimate  son  of  Lord  Bingley.  He 
owed  his  first  advance  in  hfe  to  a  runaway  match  with  the  daughter 
of  the  Earl  of  Derby.  Burgoyne  was  a  brave  officer,  though  an  un- 
forttinate  general ;  he  was  an  effective  speaker  and  a  successful  writer 
for  the  stage.  He  was  also  one  of  the  writers  for  the  RolHad.  He 
died  in  June  1792,  and  his  remains  were  honored  with  a  resting-place 
in  Westminster  Abbey. — Editor. 


254  The  Works  of  [1778 

at  the  conclusion  of  the  war;  and  the  States  in  re- 
turn guarantee  to  him  his  possession  in  the  West 
Indies.  The  great  principle  in  both  treaties  is  a  per- 
fect equality  and  reciprocity ;  no  advantage  to  be  de- 
manded by  France,  or  privileges  in  commerce,  which 
the  States  may  not  grant  to  any  and  every  other 
nation. 

In  short,  the  king  has  treated  with  us  generously 
and  magnanimously;  taken  no  advantage  of  our 
present  difficulties,  to  exact  terms  which  we  would 
not  willingly  grant,  when  established  in  prosperity 
and  power.  I  may  add  that  he  has  acted  wisely,  in 
wishing  the  friendship  contracted  by  these  treaties 
may  be  durable,  which  probably  might  not  be  if  a 
contrary  conduct  had  taken  place. 

Several  of  the  American  ships,  with  stores  for  the 
Congress,  are  now  about  sailing  under  the  convoy  of 
a  French  squadron.  England  is  in  great  consterna- 
tion, and  the  minister,  on  the  17th  instant  confessing 
that  all  his  measures  had  been  wrong  and  that  peace 
was  necessary,  proposed  two  bills  for  quieting  Amer- 
ica; but  they  are  full  of  artifice  and  deceit,  and  will,  I 
am  confident,  be  treated  accordingly  by  our  country. 

I  think  you  must  have  much  satisfaction  in  so  val- 
uable a  son,  whom  I  wish  safe  back  to  you,  and  am, 
with  great  esteem,  etc.,  B.  Franklin. 

P.  S. — The  treaties  were  signed  by  the  plenipoten- 
tiaries on  both  sides  February  6th,  but  are  still  for 
some  reasons  kept  secret,  though  soon  to  be  pub- 
lished. It  is  understood  that  Spain  will  soon  accede 
to  the  same.  The  treaties  are  forwarded  to  Congress 
by  this  conveyance. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  255 

DCLXXVIII 

TO    ARTHUR    LEE 

Passy,  23  February,  1778. 

Sir: — The  enclosed,  which  you  sent  me,  contained 
a  letter  from  Mr.  Hartley  in  which  he  acquaints  me 
that  on  the  17th  Lord  North  had  made  his  proposi- 
tions towards  a  conciliation  with  America,  and  asked 
leave  to  bring  in  two  bills,  one  to  renounce  all  claim 
of  taxation,  the  other  to  empower  commissioners  to 
treat  with  any  persons  or  bodies  of  men  in  America 
on  a  peace ;  which  was  unanimously  agreed  to.  He 
tells  me  Lord  North  had  expressed  to  him  the 
strongest  desire  of  accommodation,  and  even  wished 
him  to  come  over  to  Paris  and  talk  with  us.  I  should 
send  you  the  letter,  which  marks  strongly  the  con- 
sternation they  are  in ;  but,  M.  Gerard  having  writ- 
ten a  note  acquainting  Mr.  Deane  that  they  had  news 
from  England  that  a  treaty  was  on  foot  between 
Washington  and  Howe,  and  desiring  to  know  if  we 
had  any  intelligence  of  it,  I  wrote  the  enclosed  in 
answer,  and  sent  Mr.  Hartley's  letter  to  him,  to  show 
that  the  ministers  in  England  had  no  such  news. 
Mr.  Hartley  refers  me  to  Mr.  Thornton  for  the  titles 
of  the  two  bills.  I  return  Mr.  Thornton's  letters.  I 
am,  very  respectfully,  etc.,  B.  Franklin. 


DCLXXIX 

TO    M.    GERARD 

Passy,  24  February,  1778. 

Sir: — Understanding    that    reports    have    been 
spread  at  Versailles  of  treaties  on  foot  in  America 


256  The  Works  of  [1778 

between  the  Congress  and  the  English  Commis- 
sioners; or  here  between  us  and  the  EngHsh  Minis- 
try. I  send  you  an  American  newspaper  of  Decem- 
ber 19th/  by  which  you  will  see,  in  the  reports, 
passages  marked  with  a  pen,  in  what  manner  such 
and  those  who  occasion  them,  are  treated  there.  I 
send  you  also  the  only  correspondence  I  have  had 
which  has  any  relation  to  the  same  subject  here,  that 
you  may  judge  of  the  credit  due  to  such  reports. 
I  have  the  honor  to  be,  etc.,  B.  Franklin. 


DCLXXX 

TO    M.    GERARD 

Passy,  25  February,  1778. 

Sir  : — I  received  last  night  the  enclosed  letter  from 
a  Member  of  Parliament,^  and  the  two  frivolous  bills 
which  the  ministry  in  their  present  consternation 
have  thought  fit  to  propose,  with  a  view  to  support 
their  public  credit  a  little  longer  at  home,  and  to 
amuse  and  divide,  if  possible,  our  people  in  America. 
You  will  see  that  they  have  dispatched  a  frigate  with 
the  news,  but  I  hope  yours  from  Bordeaux  will  arrive 
first.  I  wish  to  have  the  original  letters  again  when 
you  have  perused  them.  I  have  the  honor  to  be, 
with  great  respect,  etc.,  B.  Franklin. 

1  This  document  from  the  French  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs,  is 
thus  endorsed:  "Enclosing  Independent  Chronicle,  Boston,  19  Dec, 
1777." 

2  This  letter,  copied  from  the  Archives  in  the  French  Ministry  of 
Foreign  Affairs,  is  endorsed:  "Wharton,  to  Lee,  24  February,  1778. 
London  Evening  Post,  18  January,  1778." 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  257 

DCLXXXI 

TO    DAVID    HARTLEY 

Passy,  26  February,  1778. 

Dear  Sir: — I  received  yours  of  the  i8th  and  20th 
of  this  month,  with  Lord  North's  proposed  bill.  The 
more  I  see  of  the  ideas  and  projects  of  your  ministry, 
and  their  little  arts  and  schemes  of  amusing  and  di- 
viding us,  the  more  I  admire  the  prudent,  manly,  and 
magnanimous  propositions  contained  in  your  in- 
tended motion  for  an  address  to  the  king.  What 
reliance  can  we  have  on  an  act  expressing  itself  to  be 
only  a  declaration  of  the  intention  of  Parliament 
concerning  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  imposing  taxes 
in  America,  when,  in  the  bill  itself,  as  well  as  in  the 
title,  a  right  is  supposed  and  claimed  which  never 
existed ;  and  a  present  intention  only  is  declared  not 
to  use  it,  which  may  be  changed  by  another  act  next 
session,  with  a  preamble  that,  this  intention  being 
found  inexpedient,  it  is  thought  proper  to  repeal  this 
act  and  resume  the  exercise  of  the  right  in  its  full  ex- 
tent. If  any  solid  permanent  benefit  was  intended 
by  this,  why  is  it  confined  to  the  colonies  of  North 
America  and  not  extended  to  the  loyal  ones  in  the 
sugar  islands?  But  it  is  now  useless  to  criticise,  as 
all  acts  that  suppose  your  future  government  of  the 
colonies  can  be  no  longer  significant. 

In  the  act  for  appointing  Commissioners,  instead 
of  full  powers  to  agree  upon  terms  of  peace  and 
friendship,  with  a  promise  of  ratifying  such  treaty  as 
they  shall  make  in  pursuance  of  those  powers,  it  is 
declared  that  their  agreements  shall  have  no  force  nor 


258  The  Works  of  [1778 

effect,  nor  be  carried  into  execution,  till  approved  of 
by  Parliament;  so  that  every  thing  of  importance 
will  be  uncertain.  But  they  are  allowed  to  proclaim 
a  cessation  of  arms,  and  revoke  their  proclamation, 
as  soon  as,  in  consequence  of  it,  our  militia  have  been 
allowed  to  go  home ;  they  may  suspend  the  operation 
of  acts  prohibiting  trade,  and  take  off  that  suspension 
when  our  merchants,  in  consequence  of  it,  have  been 
induced  to  send  their  ships  to  sea ;  in  short,  they  may 
do  every  thing  that  can  have  a  tendency  to  divide  and 
distract  us,  but  nothing  that  can  afford  us  security. 
Indeed,  sir,  your  ministers  do  not  know  us.  We  may 
not  be  quite  so  cunning  as  they,  but  we  have  really 
more  sense,  as  well  as  more  courage,  than  they  have 
ever  been  willing  to  give  us  credit  for ;  and  I  am  per- 
suaded these  acts  will  rather  obstruct  peace  than  pro- 
mote it,  and  that  they  will  not  answer  in  America  the 
mischievous  and  malevolent  ends  for  which  they  were 
intended.  In  England  they  may  indeed  amuse  the 
public  creditors,  give  hopes  and  expectations  that 
shall  be  of  some  present  use,  and  continue  the  mis- 
managers  a  little  longer  in  their  places.     Voila  tout! 

In  return  for  your  repeated  advice  to  us  not  to 
conclude  any  treaty  with  the  House  of  Bourbon,  per- 
mit me  to  give  (through  you)  a  little  advice  to  the 
Whigs  in  England.  Let  nothing  induce  them  to  join 
with  the  Tories  in  supporting  and  continuing  this 
wicked  war  against  the  Whigs  of  America,  whose  as- 
sistance they  may  hereafter  want  to  secure  their  own 
liberties,  or  whose  country  they  may  be  glad  to  retire 
to  for  the  enjoyment  of  them. 

If  peace,  by  a  treaty  with  America  upon  equal 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  259 

terms,  were  really  desired,  your  Commissioners  need 
not  go  there  for  it ;  supposing,  as  by  the  bill  they  are 
empowered  "to  treat  with  such  person  or  persons  as 
in  their  wisdom  and  discretion  they  shall  think  meet, " 
they  should  happen  to  conceive  that  the  Commission- 
ers of  the  Congress  at  Paris  might  be  included  in  that 
description.     I  am  ever,  dear  sir,  etc., 

B.  Franklin.^ 
P.  S. — Seriously,  on  further  thoughts,  I  am  of 
opinion  that  if  wise  and  honest  men,  such  as  Sir 
George  Saville,  the  Bishop  of  St.  Asaph,  and  your- 
self, were  to  come  over  here  immediately  with  powers 
to  treat,  you  might  not  only  obtain  peace  with  Amer- 
ica, but  prevent  a  war  with  France. 

^  Early  in  March  George  III.  appointed  five  Commissioners  to 
negotiate  terms  of  peace  with  Congress,  with  power  to  concede  almost 
every  thing  but  independence.  On  the  26th  of  March,  the  king,  in  a 
letter  to  his  prime-minister,  betrayed  his  conviction  that  Franklin 
was  about  the  most  formidable  enemy  he  had  in  the  world,  as  in  a 
public  sense  he  undoubtedly  was.      He  wrote: 

"The  many  instances  of  the  inimical  conduct  of  Franklin  towards 
this  cotmtry  makes  me  aware  that  hatred  to  this  country  is  the  con- 
stant object  of  his  mind  [the  king's  faculty  of  expressing  himself  was  not 
in  the  least  royal],  and  therefore  I  trust  that,  fearing  the  rebellion, 
colonies  may  accept  the  generous  offers  I  am  enabled  by  Parliament 
to  make  them  by  the  Commissioners  now  to  be  sent  to  America; 
that  his  chief  aim  in  what  he  has  thrown  out  is  to  prevent  their  going, 
or  to  draw  out  of  administration  an  inclination  to  go  farther  lengths 
than  the  act  of  Parliament  will  authorize.  That  information  from 
him  may  prevent  America  from  concluding  with  the  Commissioners. 

"Yet  I  think  it  so  desirable  to  end  the  war  with  that  cotmtry,  to  be 
enabled,  with  redoubled  ardor,  to  avenge  the  faithless  and  insolent 
conduct  of  France,  that  I  think  it  may  be  proper  to  keep  open  the 
channel  of  intercourse  with  that  insidious  man." — Editor. 


26o  The  Works  of  [1778 

DCLXXXII 

TO    MRS.    CATHERINE    GREENE 

Paris,  28  February,  1778. 

My  Dear  Old  Friend: — Don't  be  offended  at  the 
word  old.  I  don't  mean  to  call  you  an  old  woman;  it 
relates  only  to  the  age  of  our  friendship,  which  on 
my  part  has  always  been  a  sincerely  affectionate  one, 
and,  I  flatter  myself,  the  same  on  yours. 

I  received  your  kind  letter  from  Boston  of  October 
28th,  which  gave  me  great  pleasure,  as  it  informed  me 
of  the  welfare  of  you  and  your  family.  I  continue 
hearty,  as  do  my  two  grandsons,  who  present  their 
respects  to  you  and  Mr.  Greene,  being  pleased  with 
your  remembrance  of  them.  We  are  all  glad  to  hear 
of  Ray,  for  we  all  love  him.  I  have  been  often  much 
concerned  for  my  friends  at  Warwick,  hearing  that 
the  enemy  was  so  near  them.  I  hope  your  troubles 
will  not  be  of  much  longer  duration ;  for,  though  the 
wickedness  of  the  English  court  and  its  malice  against 
us  are  as  great  as  ever,  its  horns  are  shortened,  its 
strength  diminishes  daily,  and  we  have  formed  an 
alliance  here,  and  shall  form  others,  that  will  help  to 
keep  the  bull  quiet  and  make  him  orderly. 

I  chat,  you  see,  as  usual,  anyhow  with  you,  who 
are  kind  enough  never  to  criticise  improprieties  in  my 
compositions,  or  any  thing  else.  I  see  by  yours  that 
my  sister's  granddaughter  is  married.  I  wish  the 
young  folks  joy  and  lasting  happiness.  I  pity  my 
poor  old  sister,  to  be  so  harassed  and  driven  about  by 
the  enemy ;  for  I  feel  a  little  myself  the  inconvenience 
of  being  driven  about  by  my  friends. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  261 

I  live  here  in  great  respect,  and  dine  every  day  with 
great  folks ;  but  I  still  long  for  home  and  for  repose, 
and  should  be  happy  to  eat  Indian  pudding  in  your 
company,   and  under  your  hospitable   roof."     Re- 

'  Franklin's  appearance  in  the  salons  of  Paris,  even  before  he  was 
received  at  court,  produced  a  memorable  sensation  throughout  the 
whole  of  Europe.  Segvu-,  one  of  the  best  authorities  of  the  period, 
says: 

"Rien  n'etait  plus  suprenant  que  le  contraste  du  luxe  de  notre 
capitale,  de  I'elegance  de  nos  modes,  de  la  magnificence  de  Versailles, 
de  toutes  ces  traces  vivantes  de  la  fierte  monarchique  de  Louis  XIV., 
de  la  hauteur  polie  mais  superbe,  de  nos  grands,  avec  I'habillement 
presque  rustique,  le  maintien  simple  mais  fier,  le  langage  Hbre  et  sans 
detour,  la  cheveliu-e  sans  appr^ts  et  sans  poudre,  enfin  avec  cet  air 
antique  qui  semblait  transporter  tout  k  coup  dans  nos  murs  au  miHeu 
de  la  civilization  amolHe  et  servile  du  iSieme  siecle,  quelques  sages 
contemporains  de  Plato,  ou  des  repubHcains  du  temps  de  Cato  et  de 
Fabius." 

The  scene  which  occurred  on  the  20th  March,  1778,  when  the 
American  plenipotentiaries  were  presented  to  the  king  and  introduced 
at  court,  says  Schlosser  in  his  History  of  the  XVIIIth  Century, 
"may  be  said,  in  some  measure,  to  have  no  longer  belonged  to  the 
olden  times,  but  to  the  period  of  the  Revolution,  since  not  only  those 
who  had  a  right  to  appear  at  cotu-t  were  present  in  multitudes  and 
masses,  but  the  populace  assembled  in  the  cotirt  of  the  palace  and 
played  a  part  on  the  occasion.  Franklin  alone  was  the  subject  of 
imiversal  admiration,  as  the  ideal  of  a  patriarchal  republic  and  of 
idyllic  simplicity;  and  of  the  three  he  alone  remained  as  the  proper 
ambassador.  Silas  Deane  was  soon  recalled  by  Congress,  and  Lee 
had  made  himself  an  object  of  suspicion  and  hatred,  although  from 
very  different  causes.  The  whole  rested  upon  Franklin,  and  every 
one  regarded  him  as  the  image  of  that  ideal  and  poetic  democracy 
which  Rousseau  had  so  charmingly  described.  Franklin  was  accom- 
panied to  the  audience  by  a  very  large  number  of  Americans,  collected 
together  from  various  quarters;  and  as  soon  as  he  appeared  in  the 
royal  chambers,  notwithstanding  the  rules  of  etiquette,  he  was  received 
with  loud  clapping  of  hands  and  joyiul  applause.  When  the  embassy 
retired  in  solemn  procession  from  the  royal  audience-chamber,  and 
crossed  the  cotirt  to  the  minister  of  foreign  affairs,  it  was  again  received 
by  the  assembled  people  with  roimds  of  cheers  and  shouts  of  applause; 
and  wherever  Franklin  afterwards  showed  himself  in  Paris,  he  was 
the  wonder  of  the  day,  and  was  greeted  by  the  multitude  with  cheers. 


262  The  Works  of  [1778 

member  me  kindly  to  the  remainder  of  the  Wards, 
and  to  all  that  wish  me  well.  Assure  Mr.  Greene  of 
my  sincere  esteem  and  respect,  and  believe  me  ever, 
my  dear  friend,  yours  most  affectionately, 

B.  Franklin. 


DCLXXXIII 

A  TRUE  HISTORY  OF  THE  DIFFERENCE   BETWEEN  THE 
COLONIES   AND   THE   AUTHOR   OF   THE    STAMP   ACT 

Passy,  12  March,  1778. 

Dear  Sir: — In  the  pamphlets  you  were  so  kind  as 
to  lend  me  there  is  one  important  fact  misstated,  ap- 

Even  the  yoiing  court,  with  its  sentimentality  and  frivolity,  was  quite 
delighted  with  the  novel  contrast  of  the  sleek,  unpowdered  hair,  the 
round  hats,  the  plain  brown  broadcloth  quaker  coats  of  the  republicans, 
with  the  tasselled  and  embroidered  garments  of  the  courtiers  and  their 
curled  hair,  powdered  and  fragrant  with  pomades. 

"The  old  man  was  bom  and  trained  to  mix  uncorrupted  in  all  the 
courtly  politeness  of  a  people  which  at  that  time  sought  for  its  chief 
honor  in  courtliness  and  gallantry,  to  indulge  agreeably  in  all  the 
silliness  of  society,  to  profit  by  his  intercourse  with  the  ladies,  as  a 
prudent  man  must,  to  show  himself  in  the  highest  degree  grateful 
for  all  the  polite  attentions  which  he  received,  and  yet,  like  a  prudent 
tradesman,  never  to  deviate  an  inch  from  the  track  of  solid  speculation. 
Like  a  practical  citizen  who  only  regards  what  is  substantial  as  gain, 
Franklin  looked  upon  all  this  fashionable  excitement  and  applause 
as  merely  symptoms  of  a  favorable  conjvmcture  for  business,  from 
which  he  was  to  derive  as  much  advantage  as  he  possibly  could.  He 
himself  informs  us  that  he  dined  out  six  days  in  the  week  and  profited 
by  the  admiration  and  idolizing  of  the  ladies." 

Nor  was  the  sensation  that  he  produced  in  Europe  transitory,  nor 
due  in  any  considerable  degree,  if  at  all,  to  his  position.  He  is  to  this 
day  the  most  famous,  the  most  widely  known,  and  most  admired 
American,  living  or  dead;  his  writings  continue  to  be  reprinted  in 
almost  every  language;  his  name  is  given  to  streets,  to  charitable, 
beneficent,  and  financial  corporations  all  over  the  world,  and  his 
golden  sentences  and  anecdotes  continue  to  enrich  every  literature. — 
Editor. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  263 

parently  from  the  writers  not  having  been  furnished 
with  good  information.  It  is  the  transaction  be- 
tween Mr.  Grenville  and  the  colonies,  wherein  he 
understands  that  Mr.  Grenville  demanded  of  them  a 
specific  sum,  that  they  refused  to  grant  any  thing, 
and  that  it  was  on  their  refusal  only  that  he  made 
the  motion  for  the  Stamp  Act.  No  one  of  the  par- 
ticulars was  true.     The  fact  was  this: 

Some  time  in  the  winter  of  1763-4  Mr.  Grenville 
called  together  the  agents  of  the  several  colonies,  and 
told  them  that  he  purposed  to  draw  a  revenue  from 
America ;  and  to  that  end  his  intention  was  to  levy 
a  stamp  duty  on  the  colonies  by  act  of  Parliament  in 
the  ensuing  session,  of  which  he  thought  it  fit  that 
they  should  be  immediately  acquainted,  that  they 
might  have  time  to  consider;  and  if  any  other  duty 
equally  productive  would  be  more  agreeable  to  them, 
they  might  let  him  know  it.  The  agents  were  there- 
fore directed  to  write  this  to  their  respective  Assem- 
blies, and  communicate  to  him  the  answers  they 
should  receive :  the  agents  wrote  accordingly. 

I  was  a  member  in  the  Assembly  of  Pennsylvania 
when  this  notification  came  to  hand.  The  observa- 
tions there  made  upon  it  were,  that  the  ancient,  es- 
tablished, and  regular  method  of  drawing  aid  from 
the  colonies  was  this :  The  occasion  was  always  first 
considered  by  their  sovereign  in  his  Privy  Council, 
by  whose  sage  advice  he  directed  his  Secretary  of 
State  to  write  circular-letters  to  the  several  govern- 
ors, who  were  directed  to  lay  them  before  their  As- 
semblies. In  those  letters  the  occasion  was  explained 
to  their  satisfaction,  with   gracious   expressions  of 


264  The  Works  of  [1778 

his  Majesty's  confidence  in  their  known  duty  and 
affection,  on  which  he  reUed  that  they  would  grant 
such  sums  as  should  be  suitable  to  their  abilities, 
loyalty,  and  zeal  for  his  service;  that  the  colonies 
had  always  granted  liberally  on  such  requisitions, 
and  so  liberally  during  the  late  war,  that  the 
king,  sensible  they  had  granted  much  more  than 
their  proportion,  had  recommended  it  to  Parliament 
five  years  successively  to  make  them  some  com- 
pensation, and  the  Parliament  accordingly  returned 
them  ;^2 00,000  a  year,  to  be  divided  among  them; 
that  the  proposition  of  taxing  them,  in  Parliament, 
was  therefore  both  cruel  and  unjust;  that,  by  the 
constitution  of  the  colonies,  their  business  was  with 
the  king  in  matters  of  aid;  they  had  nothing  to  do 
with  any  financier,  nor  he  with  them;  nor  were  the 
agents  the  proper  channels  through  which  requisi- 
tions should  be  made ;  it  was  therefore  improper  for 
them  to  enter  into  any  stipulation,  or  make  any 
proposition  to  Mr.  Grenville  about  laying  taxes  on 
their  constituents  by  Parliament,  which  had  really 
no  right  at  all  to  tax  them,  especially  as  the  notice 
he  had  sent  them  did  not  appear  to  be  by  the  king's 
order,  and  perhaps  was  without  his  knowledge,  as 
the  king,  when  he  would  obtain  any  thing  from 
them,  always  accompanied  his  requisition  with  good 
words,  but  this  gentleman,  instead  of  a  decent  de- 
mand, sent  them  a  menace,  that  they  should  cer- 
tainly be  taxed,  and  only  left  them  the  choice  of  the 
manner.  But  all  this  notwithstanding,  they  were 
so  far  from  refusing  to  grant  money  that  they  re- 
solved to  the  following  purpose :   "  That  they  always 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  265 

had,  so  they  always  should  think  it  their  duty  to 
grant  aid  to  the  crown,  according  to  their  abilities, 
whenever  required  of  them  in  the  usual  constitutional 
manner."  I  went  soon  after  to  England,  and  took 
with  me  an  authentic  copy  of  this  resolution,  which  I 
presented  to  Mr.  Grenville  before  he  brought  in  the 
Stamp  Act.  I  asserted  in  the  House  of  Commons 
(Mr.  Grenville  being  present)  that  I  had  done  so,  and 
he  did  not  deny  it.  Other  colonies  made  similar 
resolutions,  and  had  Mr.  Grenville,  instead  of  that 
act,  applied  to  the  king  in  council  for  such  requisi- 
tional  letters  to  be  circulated  by  the  Secretary  of 
State,  I  am  sure  he  would  have  obtained  more  money 
from  the  colonies  by  their  voluntary  grants  than  he 
himself  expected  from  his  stamps.  But  he  chose 
compulsion  rather  than  persuasion,  and  would  not 
receive  from  their  good-will  what  he  thought  he 
could  obtain  without  it.  And  thus  the  golden 
bridge  which  the  ingenious  author  thinks  the  Amer- 
icans unwisely  and  unbecomingly  refused  to  hold 
out  to  the  minister  and  Parliament,  was  actually 
held  out  to  them,  but  they  refused  to  walk  over  it. 

This  is  the  true  history  of  that  transaction ;  and  as 
it  is  probable  there  may  be  another  edition  of  that 
excellent  pamphlet,  I  wish  this  may  be  communi- 
cated to  the  candid  author,  who,  I  doubt  not,  will 
correct  that  error. 

I  am  ever,  with  sincere  esteem,  dear  sir,  your  most 
obedient,  humble  servant,  B.  Franklin. 


266  The  Works  of  [1778 

DCLXXXIV 

TO    ARTHUR    LEE 

Passy,  17  March,  1778. 

Dear  Sir: — One  of  the  Messrs.  Beaumann,  of 
Bordeaux,  some  time  since  told  me  that  they  in- 
tended to  send  a  packet  every  month  to  America,  on 
their  own  account,  they  having  great  concerns  there. 
He  offered,  indeed,  to  carry  our  despatches;  but,  as 
at  this  distance  we  could  not  know  the  captains,  nor 
the  degree  of  confidence  that  might  be  placed  in 
them,  and  having  other  conveyances,  I  have  not  yet 
seen  occasion  to  make  use  of  that  offer.  These  are 
the  packets  I  mentioned  to  the  gentleman  as  likely  to 
afford  him  the  convenience  of  a  passage,  and  he  un- 
derstood more  than  I  said  to  him,  when  he  imagined 
there  was  a  packet  to  sail  soon  with  our  despatches, 
I  knew  of  no  such  thing  proposed;  and  certainly,  if 
it  had  been  proposed  by  me,  or  with  my  knowledge, 
I  should  have  acquainted  you  with  it. 

A  gentleman,  lately  arrived  from  Boston,  has  pre- 
sented for  acceptance  bills  drawn  on  us  by  Mr.  Han- 
cock, as  the  President  of  the  Congress,  for  about  one 
hundred  and  eighty  thousand  livres.  I  have  also  re- 
ceived a  letter,  mentioning  that  other  bills  are  drawn 
on  us  by  Mr.  Laurens,  the  present  President,  of  which 
an  account  is  promised  in  a  future  letter,  this  not 
giving  the  amount,  but  only  directing  us  to  accept 
them  when  they  appear.  The  one  hundred  and 
eighty  thousand  livres  are  an  old  debt  contracted  by 
our  army  in  Canada,  and  not  for  interest  of  money. 
What  the  others  are,  I  know  not;  and  I  cannot  con- 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  267 

ceive  what  encouragement  the  Congress  could  have 
had  from  any  of  us  to  draw  on  us  for  any  thing  but 
that  interest.  I  suppose  their  difficulties  have  com- 
pelled them  to  it.  I  see  we  shall  be  distressed  here 
by  these  proceedings,  and  I  want  to  consult  with  you 
about  the  means  of  paying  the  bills.  If  you  will 
name  an  hour  when  you  shall  be  at  leisure  to-day,  I 
will  call  upon  you.     I  have  the  honor  to  be,  sir,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


DCLXXXV 

TO   JAMES    HUTTON 

Passy,  24  March,  1778. 

My  dear  old  friend  was  in  the  right,  not  "  to  call  in 
question  the  sincerity  of  my  words,  where  I  say,  Feb- 
ruary the  12th,  we  can  treat,  if  any  propositions  are 
made  to  us.''  They  were  true  then,  and  are  so  still,  if 
Britain  has  not  declared  war  with  France ;  for  in  that 
case  we  shall  undoubtedly  think  ourselves  obliged  to 
continue  the  war  as  long  as  she  does.  But  me  thinks 
you  should  have  taken  us  at  our  word,  and  have  sent 
immediately  your  propositions  in  order  to  prevent 
such  a  war,  if  you  did  not  choose  it.  Still  I  conceive 
it  would  be  well  to  do  it,  if  you  have  not  already 
rashly  begun  the  war.  Assure  yourself  nobody  more 
sincerely  wishes  perpetual  peace  among  men  than  I 
do;  but  there  is  a  prior  wish,  that  they  would  be 
equitable  and  just ;  otherwise  such  peace  is  not  pos- 
sible, and  indeed  wicked  men  have  no  right  to  expect 
it.     Adieu.     I  am  ever  yoiu-s  most  affectionately, 

B.  Franklin. 


268  The  Works  of  [1778 

DCLXXXVI 

TO    RALPH    IZARD 

Passy,  30  March,  1778. 

Sir: — From  the  account  you  give  me  of  the  man, 
who  pretends  to  be  of  Carolina,  as  well  as  from  my 
own  observation  of  his  behavior,  I  entertain  no  good 
opinion  of  him,  and  shall  not  give  him  the  pass  he 
desires. 

Much  and  very  important  business  has  hitherto 
prevented  my  giving  you  the  satisfaction  you  desired, 
but  you  may  depend  upon  my  endeavoring  to  give  it 
to  you  as  soon  as  possible.^     An  answer  was  written 

I  The  same  grievance  is  here  alluded  to  as  in  the  letter  of  January 
29th.  Mr.  Izard  thought  himself  slighted  by  the  Commissioners,  in 
regard  to  the  treaty,  and  partictilarly  by  Dr.  Franklin,  and  requested 
an  explanation.  See  above,  p.  244.  Mr.  Izard  waited  impatiently 
for  this  explanation  in  writing,  but,  not  receiving  it,  he  sent  his 
secretary,  Mr.  John  J.  Pringle,  with  a  letter  to  Dr.  Franklin.  The 
following  is  Mr.  Pringle's  account  of  the  interview,  as  he  reported  it  to 
Mr.  Izard: 

"In  compliance  with  yotir  request,  I  waited  on  Dr.  Franklin  and 
delivered  to  him  your  letter;  he  had  scarcely  read  it  when  he  said: 
'  Mr.  Izard  has  written  me  a  very  angry  letter ;  please  to  tell  him  that 
he  has  only  made  use  of  general  assertions  of  my  having  done  wrong, 
which  I  cannot  otherwise  answer  than  by  denying.  If  I  have  given 
him  any  causes  of  offence,  he  should  let  me  know  what  they  are.'  To 
this  I  replied,  that  you  had  been  kind  enough  to  form  so  good  an 
opinion  of  me,  as  to  admit  me  into  a  share  of  yo\ir  confidence;  there- 
fore I  could  take  upon  me  to  say  that  you  were  persuaded  you  had 
clearly  stated,  in  the  several  letters  he  had  received  from  you,  cir- 
cumstances affording  sufficient  grounds  of  offence.  He  said  he  should  be 
glad  to  know  what  those  circumstances  were.  I  answered,  in  the  first 
place,  that,  conceiving  it  your  duty  as  a  member  of  the  States,  having 
a  considerable  fortune  there,  and  intrusted  with  a  commission  from  Con- 
gress, to  commtmicate  as  occasion  offered  all  the  intelligence  you  could, 
you  found  this  commtmication  greatly  obstructed  by  a  concealment 
on  the  part  of  Dr.  Franklin  of  proper  opportvmities,  when  it  was  quite 
unnecessary,  or  when  the  end  of  secrecy  might  be  answered,  though 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  269 

to  your  letter  of  the  5th  of  this  month,  and  signed  by 
us  all,  which  I  thought  had  been  sent  to  you,  till  Mr. 
Lee  informed  me  that,  having  communicated  to  you 
the  contents,  you  told  him  it  would  not  be  satisfac- 
tory, and  desired  it  might  be  reconsidered,  and  he  had 

you  had  been  intrusted  with  the  knowledge  of  them.  Upon  which  Dr. 
FrankHn  told  me  that  you  had  only  complained  of  this  in  the  present 
letter,  and  as  to  the  particular  opportimity  you  mentioned  by  M. 
Gerard,  or  Mr.  Deane,  he  had  not  himself  looked  upon  it  as  a  good  or 
proper  one,  and  had  not  himself  made  use  of  it  to  write. 

"As  another  ground  of  complaint,  I  observed  that,  while  the  com- 
mercial treaty  was  on  the  carpet,  you  considered  one  article  as  highly 
unreasonable  and  inexpedient,  and  therefore  expressly  objected  to  it; 
you  had  in  a  letter  fully  specified  the  reasons  upon  which  your  dis- 
approbation was  foimded,  and  had  sent  this  letter  to  Dr.  Franklin,  in 
hopes  of  his  removing  your  scruples,  and  setting  you  right  if  you  were 
wrong,  or  letting  yoxor  reasons  and  objections,  if  they  were  just,  pro- 
duce some  good  effect  before  the  conclusion  of  the  treaty,  btit  you  had 
never  been  favored  with  any  answer  on  the  subject,  though  you  had 
repeatedly  requested  it.  Dr.  Franklin  alleged  that  he  would  have 
given  a  full  and  satisfactory  answer,  but  he  had  been  prevented  by 
business  and  various  avocations ;  that  he  was  still  willing  to  give  one, 
but  could  not  conceive  why  you  should  be  so  impatient.  Suppose 
he  could  not  give  it  for  a  month  hence,  what  great  inconvenience  would 
it  occasion  ?  I  observed  that  the  sooner  you  had  it,  you  might  be  the 
better  prepared  to  guard  against  any  misrepresentation.  Dr.  Franklin 
assured  me  that  he  had  not  been,  nor  would  he  ever  be,  guilty  of  any 
misrepresentation;  so  far  from  it,  that  he  had  not  even  written  any 
thing  concerning  the  matter.  I  told  him  perhaps  you  might  choose  to 
lay  it  before  Congress,  and  his  answer  might  enable  you  to  do  it  more 
fully  and  satisfactorily.  Dr.  Franklin  said  you  should  have  an  answer, 
but  you  must  be  patient;  for  he  really  was  very  much  engaged  by 
other  business,  and  interrupted  by  people  continually  coming  in  upon 
him,  though  some  upon  frivolous  errands,  as  was  the  case  with  the 
two  Frenchmen,  just  gone  away,  who  came  only  to  ask  him  to  buy 
cloth. 

"I  suggested  as  a  third  ground  of  complaint,  that  you  had  been 
directed  by  the  Congress  to  propose  to  the  Court  of  Tuscany  a  com- 
mercial treaty  similar  to  the  one  concluded  with  this  Court,  which  you 
therefore  required  as  necessary  for  your  regulation,  in  pursuance  of 
the  instructions  of  Congress,  who  directed  you  should  have  not  only 
the  original  treaty,  but  also  the  alterations  which  might  be  proposed; 


270  The  Works  of  [1778 

accordingly  stopped  it  for  that  purpose.  We  have 
not  since  had  an  opportunity  of  reconsidering  it ;  and, 
as  the  end  is  now  answered  by  the  communication  of 
the  treaty,  perhaps  it  is  not  necessary. 

I  condole  with  you  sincerely  on  the  great  loss  sus- 
tained in  Charleston  by  the  fire  in  January  last,  said 
to  have  destroyed  six  hundred  houses,  valued  with 
the  goods  at  a  million  sterling.  I  have  the  honor  to 
be,  etc.,  B.  Franklin. 

both  were,  nevertheless,  withheld  from  you  by  Dr.  Franklin  without 
the  least  regard  to  your  applications.  Dr.  Franklin  replied :  '  Did  he 
go  into  Tuscany?  Has  not  the  treaty  been  sent  to  him?'  I  said  you 
had  good  reasons  for  staying;  that  the  treaty  was  kept  from  you  till 
the  other  day,  when  perhaps  it  was  necessary  for  you  to  have  had  it 
as  early  as  possible,  even  previous  to  your  departure,  to  give  it  the 
naaturer  consideration,  and  because  there  might  be  explanations  you 
would  like  to  have  made  here;  or  observations  might  occur  to  you 
which  you  might  think  it  advisable  to  communicate  to  Congress,  to 
have  their  further  instructions  as  soon  as  you  could. 

"  I  do  not  recollect  that  Dr.  Franklin  made  any  direct  reply  to  this. 
He  observed,  that  he  was  clear  he  had  not  given  you  any  just  cause  of 
offence,  or  reasonable  grounds  of  complaint;  that  he  was  studious  to 
avoid  contention ;  he  acknowledged  that  he  owed  you  an  answer,  but, 
though  he  was  in  your  debt,  he  hoped  you  woxild  be  a  merciful  creditor ; 
he  would  say,  as  the  debtor  in  the  Scripture,  '  have  patience,  and  I  will 
pay  thee  all ' ;  that  you  certainly  ought  to  give  him  time,  as  you  had 
urged  so  much  matter  as  would  require  a  pamphlet  in  answer.  I  told 
him  that  I  was  sure  it  was  far  from  your  disposition  to  court  quarrels ; 
that  if  the  reasons  he  gave  in  his  answer  to  you  were  just  and  satis- 
factory, you  wotdd  undoubtedly  allow  them  their  full  weight;  that 
satisfaction  you  were  desirous  of  having,  and  were  anxious  to  have 
the  affair  ended.  He  said  he  should  endeavor  to  do  it  as  soon  as  possi- 
ble; in  the  meantime,  he  hoped  to  have  no  more  such  angry  letters 
from  you;  his  answer  he  promised  shoiild  be  a  cool  one,  and  that  peo- 
ple who  wrote  such  angry  letters  should  keep  them  till  they  sufficiently 
reflected  on  the  contents  before  they  sent  them. — April  26th." — 
Editor. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  271 

DCLXXXVII 

TO    WILLIAM    PULTENEY  ^ 

Passy,  30  March,  1778. 

Sir: — When  I  first  had  the  honor  of  conversing 
with  you  on  the  subject  of  peace,  I  mentioned  it  as 
my  opinion  that  every  proposition  which  impHed  our 
voltintarily  agreeing  to  return  to  a  dependence  on 
Britain  was  now  become  impossible ;  that  a  peace  on 
equal  terms  undoubtedly  might  be  made;  and  that, 
though  we  had  no  particular  powers  to  treat  of  peace 

*  Mr.  Ptdteney  was  a  member  of  Parliament,  and  had  come  over  to 
Paris  as  a  secret  agent  from  the  ministry,  for  the  purpose  of  constolting 
Dr.  FrankHn  respecting  the  terms  of  a  reconciliation  with  America, 
contained  in  Lord  North's  bill  for  appointing  commissioners.  That 
the  object  of  his  visit  might  not  be  publicly  suspected,  he  assumed  the 
name  of  Williams.  The  above  letter  is  an  answer  to  the  following 
note;  or,  rather,  the  substance  of  a  conversation  that  had  passed 
between  them  in  consequence  of  it.  The  letter  was  not  sent.  See 
letter  to  David  Hartley,  dated  October  26,  1778. 

"  29  March,  1778. 

"  Mr.  Williams  returned  this  morning  to  Paris,  and  will  be  glad  to 
see  Dr.  Franklin  whenever  it  is  convenient  for  the  Doctor,  at  the 
Hotel  Frasiliere,  Rue  Toumon.  It  is  near  the  hotel  where  he  lodged 
when  the  Doctor  saw  him  a  fortnight  ago.  He  does  not  propose  to  go 
abroad,  and  therefore  the  Doctor  will  find  him  at  any  hotu".  He 
tmderstands  that  Mr.  Alexander  is  not  yet  returned  from  Dijon, 
which  he  regrets." 

Mr.  Alexander  soon  returned  to  Paris,  and  wrote  to  Dr.  Franklin,  on 
the  4th  of  April,  as  follows : 

"Upon  a  night's  reflection,  it  is  thought  right  that  you  should  be 
possessed  of  the  enclosed,  to  be  afterwards  retximed  to  me  without 
taking  a  copy  in  case  no  business  is  done.  Will  you  let  me  know  by 
the  bearer  if  we  are  to  see  you  in  town  to-day  and  when,  that  I  may 
be  at  hand?" 

The  paper  here  mentioned  as  enclosed  probably  contained  the 
propositions  which  had  been  brought  by  Mr.  Pulteney,  and  the  sub- 
stance of  which  he  had  commtmicated  to  Dr.  Franklin  in  conversation. 
— Editor. 


272  The  Works  of  [1778 

with  England,  we  had  general  powers  to  make  treaties 
of  peace,  amity,  and  commerce  with  any  state  in  Eu- 
rope, by  which  I  thought  we  might  be  authorized  to 
treat  with  Britain,  who,  if  sincerely  disposed  to  peace, 
might  save  time  and  much  bloodshed  by  treating  with 
us  directly. 

I  also  gave  it  as  my  opinion  that  in  the  treaty  to  be 
made,  Britain  should  endeavor,  by  the  fairness  and 
generosity  of  the  terms  she  offered,  to  recover  the 
esteem,  confidence,  and  affection  of  America,  without 
which  the  peace  could  not  be  so  beneficial,  as  it  was 
not  likely  to  be  lasting ;  in  this  I  had  the  pleasure  to 
find  you  of  my  opinion. 

But  I  see,  by  the  propositions  you  have  communi- 
cated to  me,  that  the  ministers  cannot  yet  divest 
themselves  of  the  idea  that  the  power  of  Parliament 
over  us  is  constitutionally  absolute  and  unlimited; 
and  that  the  limitations  they  may  be  willing  now  to 
put  to  it  by  treaty  are  so  many  favors  or  so  many 
benefits,  for  which  we  are  to  make  compensation. 

As  our  opinions  in  America  are  totally  different,  a 
treaty  on  the  terms  proposed  appears  to  me  utterly 
impracticable  either  here  or  there.  Here  we  certainly 
cannot  make  it,  having  not  the  smallest  authority  to 
make  even  the  declaration  specified  in  the  proposed 
letter,  without  which,  if  I  understood  you  right, 
treating  with  us  cannot  be  commenced. 

I  sincerely  wish  as  much  for  peace  as  you  do,  and  I 
have  enough  remaining  of  good-will  for  England  to 
wish  it  for  her  sake  as  well  as  for  our  own,  and  for 
the  sake  of  humanity.  In  the  present  state  of  things, 
the   proper  means   of  obtaining  it,  in  my  opinion, 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  273 

are  to  acknowledge  the  independence  of  the  United 
States,  and  then  enter  at  once  into  a  treaty  with  us 
for  a  suspension  of  arms,  with  the  usual  provisions 
relating  to  distances;  and  another  for  establishing 
peace,  friendship,  and  commerce  such  as  France  has 
made.  This  might  prevent  a  war  between  you  and 
that  kingdom,which,in  the  present  circumstances  and 
temper  of  the  two  nations,  an  accident  may  bring  on 
every  day,  though  contrary  to  the  interest  and  with- 
out the  previous  intention  of  either.  Such  a  treaty 
we  might  probably  now  make,  with  the  approbation 
of  our  friends ;  but  if  you  go  to  war  with  them  on  ac- 
count of  their  friendship  for  us,  we  are  bound,  by  ties 
stronger  than  can  be  formed  by  any  treaty,  to  fight 
against  you  with  them  as  long  as  the  war  against 
them  shall  continue. 

May  God  at  last  grant  that  wisdom  to  your  national 
councils  which  he  seems  long  to  have  denied  them, 
and  which  only  sincere,  just,  and  humane  intentions 
can  merit  or  expect.  With  great  personal  esteem,  I 
have  the  honor  to  be,  sir,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


DCLXXXVIII 

TO    MR.    PRESIDENT    LAURENS 

Passy,  near  Paris,  31  March,  1778. 

Sir: — Mons.  Gerard,  who  does  me  the  honor  to 
be  the  bearer  of  this  letter,  is  the  same  plenipoten- 
tiary with  whom  we  completed  the  treaties  that  have 
secured  to  America  the  friendship  and  support  of 

VOL.  VII.— 18. 


274  The  Works  of  [1778 

this  powerful  monarchy.  In  the  whole  conduct  of 
that  affair,  he  manifested  a  candor,  uprightness,  and 
equity  of  disposition,  as  well  as  an  affection  for  our 
cause  and  country,  that  impressed  us  with  the  highest 
esteem  for  him ;  and  I  congratulate  you  on  his  being 
minister  from  this  court  to  the  Congress,  as  the 
king's  appointment  of  a  person  who  is  considered 
as  our  friend,  to  fill  so  important  a  situation,  is  an 
additional  mark  of  his  Majesty's  good-will  to  us,  and 
presages,  in  my  opinion,  an  exercise  of  the  good  un- 
derstanding so  happily  begun  between  the  two  coun- 
tries; which  no  one  can  be  more  desirous  or  more 
capable  of  promoting. 

I  beg  leave,  therefore,  to  recommend  him  warmly 
not  only  to  all  the  civilities  and  respects  that  are  due 
to  his  public  character,  but  to  those  tender  regards 
and  affectionate  grateful  attentions  that  friendship 
claims  and  which  are  so  proper  to  cultivate  and 
strengthen  it.  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  with  the 
greatest  respect,  sir,  yours,  etc.,     B.  Franklin. 


DCLXXXIX 

TO    THE    PRESIDENT    OF    CONGRESS 

Passy,  31  March,  1778. 

Sir: — My  colleague,  Mr.  Deane,  being  recalled  by 
Congress,  and  no  reasons  given  that  have  yet  ap- 
pear-ed  here,  it  is  apprehended  to  be  the  effect  of 
some  misrepresentations  from  an  enemy  or  two  at 
Paris  and  at  Nantes.  I  have  no  doubt  that  he  will 
be  able  clearly  to  justify  himself;  but,  having  lived 
intimately  with  him  now  fifteen  months,  the  greatest 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  275 

part  of  the  time  in  the  same  house,  and  been  a  con- 
stant witness  of  his  pubHc  conduct,  I  cannot  omit 
giving  this  testimony,  though  unasked,  in  his  behalf, 
that  I  esteem  him  a  faithful,  active,  and  able  minister, 
who,  to  my  knowledge,  has  done  in  various  ways 
great  and  important  services  to  his  country,  whose 
interests  I  wish  may  always,  by  every  one  in  her  em- 
ploy, be  as  much  and  as  effectually  promoted.  With 
my  dutiful  respects  to  the  Congress,  I  have  the  honor 
to  be,  etc.,  B.  Franklin. 


DCXC 

TO    MONSIEUR    GERARD 

Passy,  I  April,  1778. 

Once  more,  dear  sir,  adieu.  Mr.  Deane  set  out  last 
night.  He  will  show  you  the  propositions.  They 
would  probably  have  been  accepted,  if  they  had  been 
made  two  years  ago.  I  have  answered  that  they  have 
come  too  late;  and  that  every  kind  of  acknowledg- 
ment of  the  government  of  Great  Britain,  how  small 
soever,  is  now  become  impracticable.  I  thank  you 
for  the  information  of  Mr.  de  Sartine's  courier.  My 
best  wishes  attend  you.  B.  Franklin. 


DCXCI 

TO    ARTHUR    LEE 

Passy,  i  April,  1778. 

Sir: — There  is  a  style  in  some  of  your  letters,  I 
observe  it  particularly  in  the  last,  whereby  superior 


276  The  Works  of  [1778 

merit  is  assumed  to  yourself  in  point  of  care  and  at- 
tention to  business,  and  blame  is  insinuated  on  your 
colleagues  without  making  yourself  accountable,  by 
a  direct  charge  of  negligence  or  unfaithfulness,  which 
has  the  appearance  of  being  as  artful  as  it  is  un- 
kind. In  the  present  case  I  think  the  insinuation 
groundless. 

I  do  not  know  that  either  Mr.  Deane  or  myself 
ever  showed  any  unwillingness  to  settle  the  public 
accounts.  The  banker's  book  always  contained  the 
whole.  You  could  at  any  time  as  easily  have  ob- 
tained the  account  from  them  as  either  of  us,  and  you 
had  abundantly  more  leisure.  If,  on  examining  it, 
you  had  wanted  explanation  of  any  article,  you  might 
have  called  for  it  and  had  it.  You  never  did  either. 
As  soon  as  I  obtained  the  account,  I  put  it  into  your 
hands,  and  desired  you  to  look  into  it,  and  I  have 
heard  no  more  of  it  since  till  now,  just  as  Mr.  Deane 
is  on  the  point  of  departing.  Mr.  Deane,  however, 
left  with  me  before  the  receipt  of  your  letter  both 
the  public  papers,  and  explications  of  the  several  ar- 
ticles in  the  account  that  came  within  his  knowledge. 
With  these  materials,  I  suppose  we  can  settle  the  ac- 
count whenever  you  please.  You  have  only  to  name 
the  day  and  place,  and  I  will  attend  to  the  business 
with  you.  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  with  great  es- 
teem, sir,  etc.,  B.  Franklin. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  277 

DCXCII 

TO    ARTHUR    LEE 

Passy,  4  April,  1778. 

Sir: — Mr.  Deane  communicated  to  me  his  inten- 
tion of  setting  out  for  America  immediately  as  a  se- 
cret, which  he  desired  I  would  mention  to  nobody.  I 
complied  with  his  request.  If  he  did  not  think  fit  to 
communicate  it  to  you  also,  it  is  from  him  you  should 
demand  his  reasons. ' 

I  The  contents  of  the  letter,  to  which  this  is  an  answer,  are  so  re- 
markable, and  they  are  so  pointedly  alluded  to  in  the  answer  itself, 
that,  in  justice  to  both  parties,  it  seems  proper  that  they  should  ac- 
company each  other.     The  following  is  Mr.  Lee's  letter: 

"Chaillot,  2  April,  1778. 

"Sir: — It  was  with  the  utmost  siu-prise  that  I  learned  yesterday 
that  M.  Gerard  was  to  set  out  in  the  evening  for  America,  in  a  public 
character,  and  that  Mr.  Deane  was  to  accompany  him,  without  either 
you  or  he  having  condescended  to  answer  my  letter  of  the  preceding 
day. 

"That  a  measure  of  such  moment  as  M.  Gerard's  mission,  should 
have  been  taken  without  any  communication  with  the  Commissioners 
is  hardly  credible.  That,  if  it  was  communicated,  you  should  do  such 
violence  to  the  authority  that  constituted  us,  together  with  so  great 
an  injury  and  injustice  to  me,  is  equally  astonishing.  If  success  to 
the  mission,  and  unanimity  on  the  subject  in  Congress,  were  your  wish, 
with  what  propriety  could  you  make  it  a  party  business,  and  not  tmite 
all  the  Commissioners  in  the  advising  and  approving  a  measure,  in 
which  you  desired  their  friends  and  constituents  might  be  unanimous? 

"  I  do  not  live  ten  minutes'  distance  from  you.  The  communication, 
therefore,  could  not  be  attended  with  delay  or  difificulty.  Within 
these  few  days  I  have  seen  you  frequently,  as  usual.  Particularly,  on 
Monday  I  was  with  you  at  your  house  for  some  time.  I  asked  you 
about  the  sailing  of  the  ships  at  Nantes,  expressing  my  desire  to  know 
when  we  should  have  an  opportunity  of  writing.  You  said  you  did 
not  know  when  they  sailed.  I  asked  if  there  were  no  letters,  none 
but  one  from  M.  Dumas  having  been  shown  to  me  for  some  time.  You 
answered.  No.  I  had,  at  a  former  meeting,  asked  you  whether  it  was 
not  proper  for  us  to  send  an  express  to  give  intelligence  of  such  conse- 
quential  events   as   our  being   acknowledged   here,    and   the  treaty 


278  The  Works  of  [1778 

This  court  has  an  undoubted  right  to  send  as  min- 
isters whom  it  pleases,  and  where  it  pleases,  without 
advising  with  us,  or  desiring  our  approbation.  The 
measure  of  sending  M.  Gerard  as  a  minister  to  Con- 
gress was  resolved  on  without  consulting  me;  but  I 
think  it  a  wise  one,  and,  if  I  did  not,  I  do  not  con- 
ceive that  I  have  any  right  to  find  fault  with  it. 
France  was  not  consulted  when  we  were  sent  here. 
Your  angry  charge,  therefore,  of  our  "  making  a  party 
business  of  it, "  is  groundless;  we  had  no  hand  in  the 
business.     And,  as  we  neither  "acted  nor  advised" 

avowed.  You  told  me  it  would  be  sufficient  to  write  by  the  ship  from 
Nantes  (for  it  was  afterwards  you  mentioned  there  were  two),  as  the 
news  being  public  would  find  its  way  fast  enough. 

"  Upon  M.  Amiel,  who  came  from  your  house  to  mine,  mentioning,  on 
Tuesday,  that  Mr.  Deane  was  to  go  away  in  a  few  days,  I  wrote  to  you 
and  him  to  repeat  what  I  have  so  often  requested,  that  the  public 
accounts  might  be  settled,  for  which  Mr.  Deane  had  taken  possession 
of  all  the  vouchers,  and  that  the  pubHc  papers  might  be  delivered  to 
us  before  his  departure.  You  made  no  answer.  I  sent  my  secretary 
again  yesterday  to  desire  an  answer.  You  sent  me  a  verbal  one,  that 
you  would  settle  the  accounts  with  me  any  day  after  to-morrow. 
Your  reason  for  not  doing  it  before  was  that  it  was  not  your  business. 
Now  it  seemed  your  business  only,  and  Mr.  Deane  had  no  concern  with 
it.  The  delivery  of  the  public  papers,  which  are  the  property  of  all, 
not  of  any  one  of  the  Commissioners,  though  you  and  Mr.  Deane  have 
constantly  taken  them  to  yourselves,  was  too  immaterial  to  answer. 

"During  all  this  time,  and  with  these  circumstances,  you  have  been 
totally  silent  to  me  about  the  present  opportunity  of  writing  to 
Congress,  about  the  important  public  measure  in  agitation,  and  about 
Mr.  Deane's  departiire.  Nay,  more,  what  you  have  said,  and  the 
manner  in  which  you  acted,  tended  to  mislead  me  from  imagining  that 
you  knew  of  any  such  thing.  Had  you  studied  to  deceive  the  most 
distrusted  and  dangerous  enemy  of  the  public,  you  could  not  have  done 
it  more  effectually. 

"I  trust,  sir,  that  you  will  think  with  me,  that  I  have  a  right  to 
know  your  reasons  for  treating  me  thus.  If  you  have  any  thing  to 
accuse  me  of,  avow  it,  and  I  will  answer  you.  If  you  have  not,  why 
do  you  act  so  inconsistently  with  your  duty  to  the  public,  and  in- 
juriously to  me?     Is  the  present  state  of  Europe  of  so  little  moment 


1 778]  Benjamin  Franklin  279 

in  it,  which  you  suppose,  your  other  high-sounding 
charge  of  our  doing,  thereby,  violence  to  the  author^ 
ity  that  constituted  us,  and  a  great  injury  and  injus- 
tice to  you,  is  equally  without  foundation.  As  to  the 
concealing  it  from  you,  reasons  were  given  by  Mr. 
Deane  that  appeared  to  me  satisfactory,  and  founded 
entirely  on  views  of  public  good.  I  promise  to  com- 
municate them  to  you  hereafter,  if  you  desire  it,  that 
you  may  have  an  opportunity  of  refuting  them,  if 
you  can.     At  present,  it  is  not  proper. 

to  our  constituents,  as  not  to  require  our  joint  consideration  and  in- 
formation to  them?  Is  the  character  of  the  court  here  and  of  the 
person  sent  to  negotiate  with  our  constituents,  of  no  consequence  for 
them  to  be  apprised  of?  Is  this  the  example,  you,  in  your  superior 
wisdom,  think  proper  to  set,  of  order,  decorum,  confidence,  and 
justice? 

"  I  trust  too,  sir,  that  you  will  not  treat  this  letter,  as  you  have  done 
many  others,  with  the  indignity  of  not  answering  it.  Though  I  have 
been  silent,  I  have  not  felt  the  less  the  many  affronts  of  this  kind  which 
you  have  thought  proper  to  offer  me.     I  have  the  honor  to  be    with 

^'ZT'^lT'r  Arthur  Lee." 

When  Mr.  Lee  wrote  this  letter  he  was  ignorant  of  the  cause  of  the 
complaint  contained  in  the  first  part  of  it.  Count  de  Vergennes  had 
been  informed  that  intelligence  had  been  communicated  to  England 
through  the  agency  of  Mr.  Lee's  secretary,  which  created  an  un- 
favorable  suspicion.  The  facts  are  these:  Mr.  Lee  sent  his  secretary 
to  England,  with  the  view  of  ascertaining  the  nature  of  the  prepara- 
tions that  were  making  to  fit  out  a  fleet  at  Portsmouth.  This  secretary 
betrayed  his  trust,  and  revealed  certain  particulars  in  London  for 
stock-jobbing  purposes.  Mr.  Lee  dismissed  him  as  soon  as  his  un- 
faithfulness was  discovered.  It  was  important  that  the  intention  of 
sending  M.  Gerard  as  a  minister  to  the  United  States,  and  a  fleet  to 
America  under  Count  d'Estaing,  should  remain  a  secret  as  long  as 
possible,  that  the  British  Government  might  not  take  measures  to 
counteract  the  objects  for  which  they  were  designed.  Count  de 
Vergennes  was  apprehensive  that,  if  the  intelligence  were  made  known 
to  Mr.  Lee.  it  would  get  to  the  ears  of  the  British  Ministry  through  the 
above  suspected  channel.  He  enjoined  it,  therefore,  on  Dr.  Franklin 
and  Mr.  Deane,  not  to  mention  the  subject  to  their  colleague  This 
injunction  they  were,  of  course,  bound  to  observe.— Editor 


28o  The  Works  of  [1778 

Your  third  paragraph,  therefore,  containing  a  par- 
ticular account  of  what  passed  between  you  and  me 
at  my  house  on  Monday,  seems  not  to  require  any 
answer.  I  am  still  of  the  same  opinion  that,  after 
having  sent  the  treaties  themselves  by  different  good 
conveyances,  in  which  treaties  our  pubUc  character 
was  acknowledged  in  the  most  authentic  manner,  and 
the  avowal  of  the  transaction  by  the  French  ambas- 
sador to  the  king  of  England,  which  was  in  all  the 
papers  of  Europe,  the  sending  a  vessel  express  to 
carry  the  news  of  paying  our  respects  to  court,  which 
was  likewise  in  the  papers,  was  an  expensive  and 
altogether  unnecessary  operation. 

I  received  your  letter  directed  to  Mr.  Deane  and 
myself  relating  to  the  accounts.  I  had  no  opportu- 
nity of  showing  it  to  him  till  the  evening  of  his  de- 
parture, and  then  he  was  in  too  much  of  a  hurry  to 
peruse  it.  I  could  not,  therefore,  sooner  answer  it. 
But  I  then  wrote  an  answer,  acquainting  you  that  he 
had  put  into  my  hands  the  public  papers,  with  all  the 
information  he  could  give  relating  to  the  accounts. 
It  was  intended  to  be  transcribed  fairly,  and  sent  to 
you  in  the  morning.  Your  secretary  called  for  an 
answer  before  I  had  time  to  copy  it.  I  had  a  good 
deal  of  company;  and,  thinking  a  verbal  message 
might  perhaps  do  as  well  and  save  the  trouble,  I  de- 
sired him,  with  my  compliments,  to  acquaint  you 
that  I  was  ready  to  settle  the  account  with  you  at  any 
time  you  should  think  fit  to  appoint,  except  to-mor- 
row, when  I  should  be  otherwise  engaged.  As  this 
verbal  message  offended  you,  though  I  cannot  con- 
ceive why,  I  now  send  you  the  letter.     In  it,  I  com- 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  281 

plain  of  your  artful  and,  I  think  I  may  call  them,  un- 
just insinuations.  You  give  me  fresh  instances  in  the 
letter  I  am  answering.  You  magnify  your  zeal  to 
have  the  public  accounts  settled,  and  insinuate  that 
Mr.  Deane  and  I  prevented  it,  he  by  "taking  posses- 
sion of  all  the  vouchers, ' '  and  both  of  us  by  taking 
constantly  the  public  papers  to  ourselves,  which  are 
the  property  of  all  the  Commissioners. 

When  this  comes  to  be  read  in  the  Committee,  for 
whom  it  seems  to  be  calculated,  rather  than  for  me, 
who  know  the  circumstances,  what  can  they  under- 
stand by  it,  but  that  you  are  the  only  careful,  honest 
man  of  the  three,  and  that  we  have  some  knavish  rea- 
sons for  keeping  the  accounts  in  the  dark,  and  you 
from  seeing  the  vouchers  ?  But  the  truth  is,  the  pa- 
pers naturally  came  into  Mr.  Deane 's  hands  and  mine ; 
first,  as  he  was  engaged  in  the  purchasing  of  goods 
for  the  Congress  before  either  you  or  I  came  into 
France ;  next,  as  somebody  must  keep  the  papers,  and 
you  were  either  on  long  journeys  to  Spain,  to  Vienna 
and  Berlin,  or  had  a  commission  to  go  and  reside  in 
Spain,  which  it  was  expected  would  soon  be  execut- 
ed ;  whereas  Mr.  Deane  and  I  lived,  almost  constant- 
ly, in  the  same  house,  either  at  Paris  or  Passy;  you, 
separate  from  us;  and  we  did  most  of  the  business. 
Where  then  could  the  papers  be  so  properly  placed 
as  with  us,  who  had  daily  occasion  to  make  use  of 
them?  I  never  knew  that  you  desired  to  have  the 
keeping  of  them.  You  never  were  refused  a  paper, 
or  the  copy  of  a  paper,  that  you  desired.^ 

*  Mr.  Lee's  complaints  about  the  official  papers,  which  accumulated 
in  the  hands  of  the  Commissioners,  did  not  cease  with  the  departure  of 


282  The  Works  of  [1778 

As  to  my  not  acquainting  you  with  the  opportunity 
of  writing  to  Congress  by  Mr.  Deane,  we  had  lately 
written,  and  sent,  by  probably  safe  conveyances,  all  I 
know  of  importance  to  write.     I,  therefore,  did  not^ 
propose,  nor  do  I  write  any  letter  to  the  Committee* 
by  him,  especially  as  in  my  opinion,  considering  the] 
route  he  was  to  take,  he  would  not  arrive  so  soon" 
as  other  vessels,  which  may  sail  long  after  him.     An^ 
he  could  himself  give  as  good  an  account  of  our  being 
at  court,  the  only  public  transaction  since  our  last  let- 
ters, as  we  could  write. 

Mr.  Deane.  They  continued  long  after  Mr.  Adams  took  the  place  of 
that  Commissioner.  For  some  time  Mr.  Adams  lived  in  the  same  house 
with  Dr.  Franklin  at  Passy.  To  one  of  Mr.  Lee's  letters  on  this  subject, 
Mr.  Adams  replied  as  follows: 

"I  have  not  asked  Dr.  Franklin's  opinion  concerning  your  proposal 
of  a  room  in  your  house  for  the  papers,  and  an  hoiu"  to  meet  there, 
because  I  know  it  would  be  in  vain ;  for  I  think  it  must  appear  to  him 
more  unequal  still.  It  cannot  be  expected,  that  two  should  go  to  one, 
when  it  is  as  easy  again  for  one  to  go  to  two;  not  to  mention  Dr. 
Franklin's  age,  his  rank  in  the  coimtry,  or  his  character  in  the  world; 
nor  that  nine  tenths  of  the  public  letters  are  constantly  brought  to  this 
house,  and  will  ever  be  carried  where  Dr.  Franklin  is.  I  will  ven- 
ttire  to  make  a  proposition  in  my  turn,  in  which  I  am  very  sincere ;  it 
is  that  you  would  join  families  with  us.  There  is  room  enough  in  this 
house  to  accommodate  us  all.  You  shall  take  the  apartments  which 
belong  to  me  at  present,  and  I  will  content  myself  with  the  library 
room  and  the  next  to  it.  Appoint  a  room  for  business,  any  that  you 
please,  mine  or  another,  a  person  to  keep  the  papers,  and  certain 
hoiu-s  to  do  business.  This  arrangement  will  save  a  large  sum  of  money 
to  the  public,  and,  as  it  would  give  us  a  thousand  opportimities  of  con- 
versing together,  which  now  we  have  not,  and,  by  having  but  one 
place  for  our  coimtrymen  and  others  to  go  to,  who  have  occasion  to 
visit  us,  would  greatly  facilitate  the  public  business.  It  would  remove 
the  reproach  we  lie  under,  of  which  I  confess  myself  very  much  ashamed, 
of  not  being  able  to  agree  together,  and  would  make  the  Commission 
more  respectable,  if  not  in  itself,  yet  in  the  estimation  of  the  English, 
the  French,  and  the  American  nations;  and,  I  am  sure,  if  we  judge  by 
the  letters  we  receive,  it  wants  to  be  made  more  respectable,  at  least 
in  the  eyes  of  many  persons  of  this  cotmtry. — Passy,  October  lo, 
1778." — Editor. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  283 

You  ask  me  why  I  act  so  inconsistently  with  my 
duty  to  the  public?  This  is  a  heavy  charge,  sir, 
which  I  have  not  deserved.  But  it  is  to  the  public 
that  I  am  accountable,  and  not  to  you.  I  have  been 
a  servant  to  many  publics,  through  a  long  life ;  have 
served  them  with  fidehty,  and  have  been  honored  by 
their  approbation.  There  is  not  a  single  instance  of 
my  ever  being  accused  before  of  acting  contrary  to 
their  interest  or  my  duty.  I  shall  account  to  the 
Congress,  when  called  upon,  for  this  my  terrible  of- 
fence of  being  silent  to  you  about  Mr.  Deane's  and 
M.  Gerard's  departure.  And  I  have  no  doubt  of 
their  equity  in  acquitting  me. 

It  is  true,  that  I  have  omitted  answering  some  of 
your  letters,  particularly  your  angry  ones,  in  which 
you,  with  very  magisterial  airs,  schooled  and  docu- 
mented me,  as  if  I  had  been  one  of  your  domestics. 
I  saw  in  the  strongest  light  the  importance  of  our  liv- 
ing in  decent  civility  towards  each  other,  while  our 
great  affairs  were  depending  here.  I  saw  your  jeal- 
ous, suspicious,  malignant,  and  quarrelsome  temper, 
which  was  daily  manifesting  itself  against  Mr.  Deane 
and  almost  every  other  person  you  had  any  concern 
with.  I,  therefore,  passed  your  affronts  in  silence, 
did  not  answer,  but  burnt,  your  angry  letters,  and  re- 
ceived you,  when  I  next  saw  you,  with  the  same  civil- 
ity, as  if  you  had  never  written  them.  Perhaps  I  may 
still  pursue  the  same  conduct,  and  not  send  you  these. 
I  believe  I  shall  not,  unless  exceedingly  pressed  by 
you;  for,  of  all  things,  I  hate  altercation. 

One  word  more  about  the  accounts.  You  tell  me 
that  my  reason  for  not  settling  the  accounts  before 


284  The  Works  of  [1778 

was,  that  it  was  not  my  business ;  now,  it  seemed  my 
business  only,  and  Mr.  Deane  had  nothing  to  do  with 
it.  Both  these  positions  are  imaginary.  I  could  never 
have  given  any  such  reasons,  being  always  willing  to 
settle  accounts  with  everybody,  and  not  having  the 
least  motive  to  delay  or  postpone  the  settlement  of 
these.  Nor  could  it  seem  that  I  should  say  Mr. 
Deane  had  nothing  to  do  with  it.  He  had  done  what 
he  could  towards  it,  and,  being  actually  gone,  could 
do  no  more.  The  infinity  of  business  we  have  had  is 
the  true  and  only  reason,  that  I  know  of,  why  they 
have  not  been  settled — that  is,  why  we  did  not  meet, 
sit  down,  and  compare  the  vouchers  with  the  articles 
in  the  banker's  account,  in  order  to  see  that  his  charges 
were  supported,  and  that  he  had  given  us  due  credit 
for  the  moneys  we  had  put  into  his  hands.  This,  I 
apprehend,  is  all  we  have  to  do  here.  It  is  to  the 
Congress  we  are  separately  to  account  for  the  sep- 
arate drafts  we  have  made  on  him.  This,  Mr.  Deane 
can  do  when  he  arrives,  having  taken  a  copy  of  the 
account  with  him. 

If  you  think  we  should  account  to  one  another  for 
our  expenses,  I  have  no  objection,  though  I  never 
expected  it.  I  believe  they  will  be  found  very 
moderate.  I  answer  mine  will,  having  had  only  the 
necessaries  of  life,  and  purchased  nothing  besides, 
except  the  EncyclopcBdia,  nor  sent  a  sixpence'  worth 
of  any  thing  to  my  friends  or  family  in  America.  I 
have  the  honor  to  be  your  obedient  servant, 

B.  Franklin. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  285 

DCXCIII 

TO    ARTHUR    LEE 

Passy,  6  April,  1778. 

Sir: — Mr.  Williams  had  orders  from  Mr.  Deane 
and  myself  to  purchase  and  make  up  a  large  quantity 
of  clothing,  and  ship  the  same  in  pursuance  of  the  or- 
ders of  Congress.  I  imagine  you  were  not  in  France 
when  this  measure  was  taken,  and  so  could  not  be 
consulted.  But  you  certainly  have  been  acquainted 
with  it  since  your  return.  I  never  heard  that  you 
made  any  objection  to  it,  and  you  may  at  any  time 
have  fuller  information  if  desired.  I  think  the  orders 
of  any  two  of  us,  in  these  cases,  are  sufficient,  and 
that,  if  we  have  given  directions  to  an  agent  of  ours 
to  draw  on  our  banker  in  discharge  of  contracts  made 
properly  for  the  public  service,  his  drafts  ought  to  be 
honored.  The  reason  of  permitting  him  to  draw  on 
our  banker,  instead  of  ourselves,  was,  as  I  understand 
it,  convenient  at  that  time  to  mask  more  effectually 
our  building  and  equipping  vessels  of  force.  If,  in  a 
single  instance,  he  is  known  or  suspected  to  have 
abused  this  confidence  placed  in  him,  I  am  ready  to 
join  with  you  in  putting  a  stop  to  his  proceedings  by 
ordering  his  bills  to  be  protested.  If  not,  I  think  the 
public  service  requires  that  he  should  complete  his 
orders,  which,  as  far  as  I  have  ever  heard,  he  has 
hitherto  executed  with  great  care,  fidelity,  and 
ability. 

As  to  the  want  of  funds  with  Mr.  Grand,  I  suppose 
that,  before  the  bills  drawn  on  him  became  due,  which 


286  The  Works  of  [1778 

are  charged  to  his  account,  and  bring  the  balance 
against  us,  he  will  be  fully  supplied  with  what  are 
necessary. 

I  send  you  herewith  sundry  letters  relating  to  our 
affairs,  for  your  perusal  and  advice  upon  them.  I 
have  the  honor  to  be,  etc.,  B.  Franklin. 


DCXCIV 


TO  THE  GRAND  PENSIONARY  OF  HOLLAND 

Paris,  io  April,  1778. 

Sir: — We  have  the  honor  of  acquainting  your  Ex- 
cellency that  the  United  States  of  North  America 
being  now  an  independent  power,  and  acknowledged 
as  such  by  this  court,  a  treaty  of  amity  and  commerce 
is  completed  between  France  and  the  said  States,  of 
which  we  shall  speedily  send  your  Excellency  a  copy, 
to  be  communicated,  if  you  think  proper,  to  their 
High  Mightinesses,  for  whom  the  United  States  have 
the  greatest  respect,  and  the  strongest  desire  that  a 
good  understanding  may  be  cultivated,  and  a  mutu- 
ally beneficial  commerce  established,  between  the 
people  of  the  two  nations,  which,  as  will  be  seen, 
there  is  nothing  in  the  above-mentioned  treaty  to 
prevent  or  impede. 

We  have  the  honor  to  be,  with  great  respect, 

Your  Excellency's,  etc. 

[On  a  separate  paper.] 

The  above  is  so  written  as  that  you  may  show  it  on 
occasion.     We  send  enclosed  a  proposed  draft  of  a 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  287 

letter  to  the  Grand  Pensionary;  but  as  we  are  unac- 
quainted with  forms,  and  may  not  exactly  have  hit 
your  idea  with  regard  to  the  matter  and  expression, 
we  wish  you  would  consult  with  our  friend  upon  it, 
and  return  it  with  the  necessary  corrections. 

P-  S. — The  letters  you  mention  coming  to  you 
from  England  are  for  Mr.  William  Lee,  and  you  will 
be  so  good  as  to  forward  them,  with  his  name  super- 
scribed, and  enclosed  to  Messrs.  Faederic  Gontard  & 
Fils,  Banquiers  k  Frankfort  sur  la  Maine. 


DCXCV 

TO    M.    DUMAS' 

Passy,  io  April,  1778. 

Sir:— We  received  duly  your  despatch  of  the  3d 
instant,  and  approve  very  much  the  care  and  pains 
you  constantly  take  in  sending  us  the  best  intelligence 
of  foreign  affairs.  We  have  now  the  pleasure  of  ac- 
quainting you  that  Mr.  John  Adams,  a  member  of 
Congress,  appointed  to  succeed  Mr.  Deane  in  this 
Commission,  is  safely  arrived  here.  He  came  over  in 
the  Boston,  a  frigate  of  thirty  guns  belonging  to  the 

^  The  occasion  of  this  letter  is  thus  described  by  John  Adams  in  his 
Diary,  Works  of  John  Adams,  Vol.  III.,  p.  124: 

"  When  Mr.  Lee  arrived  at  my  lodgings  one  morning,  it  was  proposed 
that  a  letter  should  be  written  to  M.  Dumas  at  the  Hague,  to  inform 
him  of  my  arrival;  and  my  colleagues  proposed  that  I  should  write  it. 
I  thought  it  an  awkward  thing  for  me  to  write  an  account  of  myself, 
and  asked  Dr.  Franklin  to  write  it,  after  we  should  have  considered 
and  agreed  upon  what  should  be  written,  which  I  thought  the  more 
proper,  as  he  was  the  only  one  of  us  who  had  been  acquainted  with  M. 


288  The  Works  of  [1778 

United  States.  In  the  passage  they  met  and  made 
prize  of  a  large  EngUsh  letter-of -marque  ship  of  four- 
teen guns,  the  Martha,  bound  for  New  York,  on 
whose  cargo  ;;^7 0,000  sterling  was  insured  in  London. 
It  contains  abundance  of  necessaries  for  America, 
whither  she  is  despatched,  and  we  hope  will  get  well 
into  one  of  our  ports. 

Mr.  Adams  acquaints  us  that  it  had  been  moved  in 
Congress  to  send  a  minister  to  Holland,  but  that  al- 
though there  was  the  best  disposition  towards  that 
country,  and  desire  to  have  and  maintain  a  good  im- 
derstanding  with  their  High  Mightinesses  and  a  free 
commerce  with  their  subjects,  the  measure  was  re- 
spectfully postponed  for  the  present,  till  their  senti- 

Dtimas.  Accordingly,  on  the  loth  of  April  the  letter  was  produced  in 
these  words,  which  I  insert  at  full  length,  because  it  was  the  only- 
public  letter,  I  believe,  which  he  wrote  while  I  was  with  him  in  the 
Commission. ' ' 

Charles  William  Frederick  Dumas  was  a  Swiss  by  birth,  though  he 
passed  a  large  portion  of  his  life  in  Holland.  He  was  a  man  of  letters, 
skilled  in  modem  as  well  as  the  ancient  languages,  and  in  1770,  or 
thereabouts,  edited  an  edition  of  Vattel's  work  on  the  Laws  of 
Nations.  When  in  Holland,  shortly  before  returning  to  America, 
Dr.  Franklin  became  acquainted  with  Dumas,  and  in  1775  recom- 
mended him  to  the  Committee  of  Secret  Correspondence  in  Congress 
as  a  suitable  person  to  act  as  the  secret  agent  of  the  committee  in 
Holland.  Dr.  Franklin,  who  was  a  member  of  the  committee,  wrote 
his  instructions,  which  bear  date  December  19,  1775,  and  on  the  30th 
of  April,  1776,  Dumas  commenced  a  correspondence  which  continued 
without  interruption  until  John  Adams  was  appointed  Minister 
Plenipotentiary,  when  Dumas  was  employed  by  him  as  secretary  and 
translator.  When  Mr.  Adams  was  called  to  Paris  Mr.  Dumas  acted  as 
Charge  d'  Affaires,  and  in  this  capacity  exchanged  with  the  Dutch 
government  the  ratification  of  the  first  treaty  ever  entered  into  between 
the  United  States  and  the  Dutch  Government.  His  communications 
were  published  by  Mr.  Sparks  in  Vol.  IX.  of  The  Diplomatic  Corre- 
spondence of  the  American  Revolution,  but  as  was  too  mttch  his  wont, 
not  without  some  regrettable  liberties  with  their  text. — Editor. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  289 

ments  on  it  could  be  known,  from  an  apprehension 
that  possibly  their  connections  with  England  might 
make  the  receiving  an  American  minister  as  yet  incon- 
venient, and  (if  Holland  should  have  the  same  good- 
will toward  us)  a  little  embarrassing.  Perhaps,  as  our 
independency  begins  to  wear  the  appearance  of  greater 
stability  since  our  acknowledged  alHance  with  France, 
that  difficulty  may  be  lessened.  Of  this  we  wish  you 
would  take  the  most  prudent  methods  privately  to 
inform  yourself.  It  seems  clearly  to  be  the  interest 
of  Holland  to  share  in  the  rapidly  growing  commerce 
of  her  young  sister  republic;  and  as  in  the  love  of 
liberty,  and  bravery  in  the  defence  of  it,  she  has  been 
our  great  example,  we  hope  circumstances  and  con- 
stitutions in  many  respects  so  similar  may  produce 
mutual  benevolence;  and  that  the  unfavorable  im- 
pressions made  on  the  minds  of  some  in  America,  by 
the  rigor  with  which  supplies  of  arms  and  ammuni- 
tion were  refused  them  in  their  distress,  may  soon  be 
worn  off  and  obliterated  by  a  friendly  intercourse 
and  reciprocal  good  offices. 

When  Mr.  Adams  left  America,  which  was  about 
the  middle  of  February,  our  affairs  were  daily  improv- 
ing, our  troops  well  supplied  with  arms  and  provisions 
and  in  good  order;  and  the  army  of  General  Burgoyne 
being  detained  for  breaches  of  the  capitulation,  we 
had  in  our  hands  about  ten  thousand  prisoners  of  the 
enemy.  We  are,  sir,  etc. 


VOL.  VII.- 


290  The  Works  of  [1778 

DCXCVI 

TO    EDWARD    BANCROFT* 

Passy,  16  April,  1778. 

Dear  Sir: — I  wish  you  would  assure  our  friend 
that  Dr.  FrankHn  never  gave  any  such  expectations 
to  Mr.  Pulteney.     On  the  contrary,  he  told  him  that 

^  This  Edward  Bancroft  was  an  adventurer  from  Connecticut,  who 
went  to  England,  studied  medicine,  and  settled  as  a  physician  in 
London.  Bancroft,  the  historian,  says  of  him,  that  he  accepted  the 
post  of  a  paid  American  spy,  to  prepare  himself  for  the  more  lucrative 
office  of  a  double  spy  for  the  British  ministers. 

"The  French  government,"  says  Bancroft,  "was  deliberating  on 
the  methods  of  encouraging  commerce  with  the  United  Colonies. 
Replying  to  an  inquiry  of  the  Comptroller-General,  Vergennes,  on  the 
loth,  advised  to  admit  their  ships  and  cargoes  without  exacting 
duties  or  applying  the  restrictive  laws  on  their  entry  or  departiire; 
so  that  France  might  become  the  emporium  of  their  commerce  with 
other  European  nations.  'Take  every  precaution,'  so  he  admonished 
his  colleague,  '  that  our  motives,  our  intentions,  and,  as  far  as  possible, 
our  proceedings,  may  be  hidden  from  the  English.' 

"The  attempt  at  concealment  was  vain.  On  the  nth,  Vergennes 
admitted  Deane  to  an  interview.  Reserving  for  the  king's  considera- 
tion the  question  of  recognising  the  independence  and  protecting 
the  trade  of  the  United  Colonies,  he  listened  with  great  satisfaction 
to  the  evidences  of  their  ability  to  hold  out  against  British  arms  to  the 
end  of  the  year,  and  gave  it  as  his  private  opinion  that,  in  case  they 
should  reject  the  sovereignty  of  his  Britannic  Majesty,  they  might 
count  on  the  unanimous  wishes  of  the  government  and  people  of 
France,  whose  interest  it  would  not  be  to  see  them  reduced  by  force. 
Received  again  on  the  20th,  Deane  made  a  formal  request  for  two 
hundred  light  brass  field-pieces,  and  arms  and  clothing  for  twenty- 
five  thousand  men.  The  arms  were  promised;  Du  Coudray,  a  dis- 
tinguished engineer,  who  had  given  lessons  to  Covmt  d'Artois,  and 
who  wished  to  serve  in  America,  was  employed  to  select  from  the 
public  arsenals  cannon  of  the  old  pattern  that  could  be  spared; 
and  Beaumarchais,  whom  Vergennes  authoritatively  recommended, 
offered  merchandise  on  credit  to  the  value  of  three  millions  of  livres. 
The  minister  did  not  suspect  that  Congress  had  committed  its  affairs 
to  a  man  who  was  wanting  in  discernment  and  integrity.  But  Deane 
called  over  Bancroft  as  if  he  had  been  a  colleague,  showed  him  his 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  291 

the  Commissioners  could  not  succeed  in  their  mission, 
whether  they  went  to  recover  the  dependence  or  to  di- 
vide. His  opinion  is  confirmed  by  the  enclosed  re- 
solves, which  perhaps  it  may  not  be  amiss  to  publish 
in  England.  Please  to  send  me  the  newspaper. 
Yours  affectionately, 

B.  Franklin. 


letters  of  credence  and  his  instructions,  took  him  as  a  companion  in 
his  journeys  to  Versailles,  and  repeated  to  him  exactly  all  that  passed 
in  the  interview  with  the  minister.  Bancroft  returned  to  England, 
and  his  narrative  for  the  British  ministry  is  a  full  record  of  the  first 
official  intercourse  between  France  and  the  United  States.  The 
knowledge  thus  obtained  enabled  the  British  ambassador  to  embarrass 
the  shipment  of  supplies  by  timely  remonstrances,  for  the  French 
cabinet  was  tmwilling  to  appear  openly  as  the  accomplice  of  the 
insurgents."  * 

For  Deane's  misplaced  confidence  in  this  man  there  are  some  ex- 
tenuating circumstances.  Edward  Bancroft  had  already  achieved 
some  reputation  in  England  as  a  physician  and  naturalist.  He  was 
a  Fellow  of  the  Royal  Society,  and  author  of  a  work  of  some  repute, 
entitled,  An  Essay  on  the  Natural  History  of  Guiana.  In  1769,  he 
had  published  a  pamphlet  supporting  the  legislative  pretensions  of 
the  colonists,  and  under  Franklin's  direction  had  written  notices  of 
publications,  relating  to  America,  for  the  Monthly  Review. 

These  were  not  all  nor  the  most  important  considerations  operating 
to  disarm  Deane's  distrust. 

In  the  instructions  given  by  the  Committee  of  Secret  Correspondence 
to  Silas  Deane  when  he  went  to  France  as  agent  from  Congress,  they 
wrote  to  him:  "  You  will  endeavor  to  proctire  a  meeting  with  Dr.  Ban- 
croft, by  writing  a  letter  to  him,  under  cover  to  Mr.  Griffiths,  at  Turn- 
ham  Green,  near  London,  and  desiring  him  to  come  over  to  you,  in 
France  or  Holland,  on  the  score  of  old  acquaintance.  [Both  were  from 
Connecticut.]  From  him  you  may  obtain  a  good  deal  of  information 
of  what  is  now  going  forward  in  England,  and  settle  a  mode  of  con- 
tinuing a  correspondence.  It  may  be  well  to  remit  him  a  small  bill 
to  defray  his  expenses  in  coming  to  you,  and  avoid  all  political  matters 
in  your  letter  to  him." 

If  these  facts  do  not  excuse,  they  much  extenuate,  Deane's  con- 
fidence.— Editor. 

*  Bancroft's  Hist,  of  the  United  States,  Vol.  IX.,  p.  62. 


292  The  Works  of  [1778 

DCXCVII 

FROM    DAVID    HARTLEY 

Paris,  23  April,  1778. 

Dear  Sir: — I  will  take  care  of  all  your  commis- 
sions. This  moment  a  second  packet  of  infinite  value 
is  received,  which  I  shall  cherish  as  a  mark  of  affec- 
tion from  you.  I  opened  the  letter  by  mistake, 
which  came  with  it,  and  soon  saw  it  was  not  for  me. 
I  hope  you  will  excuse  it.  I  choose  rather  to  throw 
myself  upon  your  goodness  for  the  excuse,  than  any 
thing  else.  I  shall  not  set  out  till  between  one  and 
two ;  therefore,  if  you  will  be  so  good  as  to  send  me 
another  copy,  I  will  take  care  of  it,  and  deliver  it 
safely. 

God  bless  you,  my  dear  friend.  No  exertion  or 
endeavor  on  my  part  shall  be  wanting,  that  we  may 
some  time  or  other  meet  again  in  peace.  Your 
powers  are  infinitely  more  influential  than  mine. 
To  those  powers  I  trust  my  last  hopes.  I  will  con- 
clude, "Blessed  are  the  peace-makers." 
Your  affectionate  friend, 

D.  Hartley.^ 

P.  S. — If  tempestuous  times  should  come,  take  care 
of  your  own  safety;  events  are  uncertain,  and  men 
may  be  capricious. 

DR.    franklin's    answer 

I  thank  you  for  your  kind  caution,  but  having 
nearly  finished  a  long  life,  I  set  but  little  value  on 

I  Mr.  Hartley  was  in  Paris,  on  a  secret  mission  from  the  British 
Ministry,  with  propositions  for  a  peace,  which  Dr.  Franklin  did  not 
approve. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  293 

what  remains  of  it.  Like  a  draper,  when  one  chaf- 
fers with  him  for  a  remnant,  I  am  ready  to  say :  "As 
it  is  only  the  fag  end,  I  will  not  differ  with  you  about 
it;  take  it  for  what  you  please."  Perhaps  the  best 
use  such  an  old  fellow  can  be  put  to,  is  to  make  a 
martyr  of  him.  B.  Franklin.* 


DCXCVIII 

TO    COUNT    DE    VERGENNES 

Passy,  24  April,  1778. 

Sir: — Mr.  Hartley,  a  member  of  Parliament,  an  old 
acquaintance  of  mine,  arrived  here  from  London  on 
Sunday  last.  He  is  generally  in  the  opposition,  es- 
pecially on  American  questions,  but  has  some  respect 
for  Lord  North.  In  conversation,  he  expressed  the 
strongest  anxiety  for  peace  with  America,  and  ap- 
peared extremely  desirous  to  know  my  sentiments  of 
the  terms  which  might  probably  be  accepted  if  of- 
fered; whether  America  would  not,  to  obtain  peace, 

*  After  Mr.  Hartley  returned  to  London,  a  friend  of  Dr.  Franklin  re- 
ceived an  anonymous  letter  in  cipher,  dated  May  15th,  containing  a 
caution  to  him  to  be  on  his  guard  from  another  quarter.  The  writer 
said:  "Mr.  Hartley  told  Lord  Camden  this  morning  that  he  was  sure 
the  Commissioners,  and  particiilarly  Dr.  Franklin,  were  much  dis- 
concerted at  Paris;  for  they  might  as  well  live  in  the  Bastile,  as  be  ex- 
posed, as  they  were,  to  the  perpetual  observation  of  French  ministerial 
spies.     This  must  not,  however,  be  repeated." 

In  reply  Dr.  Franklin  said:  "Be  so  good  as  to  answer  our  friend, 
that  it  is  impossible  Mr.  Hartley  could  have  said  what  is  here  repre- 
sented, no  such  thing  having  ever  been  intimated  to  him;  nor  has  the 
least  idea  of  the  kind  ever  been  in  the  minds  of  the  Commissioners, 
particularly  Dr.  Franklin,  who  does  not  care  how  many  spies  are 
placed  about  him  by  the  Court  of  France,  having  nothing  to  conceal 
from  them." — Editor. 


294  The  Works  of  [1778 

grant  some  superior  advantages  in  trade  to  Britain, 
and  enter  into  an  alliance,  offensive  and  defensive; 
whether,  if  war  should  be  declared  against  France, 
we  had  obliged  ourselves  by  treaty  to  join  with  her 
against  England. 

My  answers  have  been  that  the  United  States  were 
not  fond  of  war,  and  with  the  advice  of  their  friends 
would  probably  be  easily  prevailed  with  to  make 
peace  on  equitable  terms ;  but  we  had  no  terms  com- 
mitted to  us  to  propose,  and  I  did  not  choose  to 
mention  any;  that  Britain,  having  injured  us  heavily 
by  making  this  unjust  war  upon  us,  might  think  her- 
self well  off,  if  on  reparation  of  those  injuries  we 
admitted  her  to  equal  advantages  with  other  nations 
in  commerce,  but  certainly  she  had  no  reason  to  ex- 
pect superior;  that  her  known  fondness  for  war,  and 
the  many  instances  of  her  readiness  to  engage  in  wars 
on  frivolous  occasions,  were  probably  sufficient  to 
cause  an  immediate  rejection  of  every  proposition  for 
an  offensive  alliance  with  her;  and  that,  if  she  made 
war  against  France  on  our  account,  a  peace  with  us, 
at  the  same  time,  was  impossible;  for  that,  having 
met  with  friendship  from  that  generous  nation,  when 
we  were  cruelly  oppressed  by  England,  we  were 
imder  ties  stronger  than  treaties  could  form,  to  make 
common  cause;  which  we  should  certainly  do  to  the 
utmost  of  our  power. 

Here  has  also  been  with  me  a  Mr.  Chapman,  who 
says  he  is  a  member  of  the  Parliament  of  Ireland, 
on  his  way  home  from  Nice,  where  he  had  been  for 
the  recovery  of  his  health.  He  pretended  to  call  on 
me  only  from  motives  of  respect  for  my  character, 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  295 

etc.  But,  after  a  few  compliments,  he  entered  on  a 
similar  discourse,  urging  much  to  know  what  terms 
would  satisfy  America,  and  whether,  on  having  peace 
and  independence  granted  to  us,  we  should  not  be 
wiUing  to  submit  to  the  Navigation  Act,  or  give 
equivalent  privileges  in  trade  to  Britain.  The  pur- 
port of  my  answer  to  him  was,  in  short,  that  peace 
was  of  equal  value  to  England  as  to  us,  and  independ- 
ence we  were  already  in  possession  of;  that,  therefore, 
England's  offer  to  grant  them  to  us  could  not  be  con- 
sidered as  proposing  any  favor,  or  as  giving  her  a  right 
to  expect  peculiar  advantages  in  commerce.  By  his 
importunity,  I  found  his  visit  was  not  so  occasional 
as  he  represented  it;  and,  from  some  expressions, 
I  conjectured  he  might  be  sent  by  Lord  Shelburne 
to  sound  me  and  collect  some  information.  On  the 
whole,  I  gather  from  these  conversations  that  the 
opposition,  as  well  as  the  ministry,  are  perplexed  with 
the  present  situation  of  affairs,  and  know  not  which 
way  to  turn  themselves,  or  whether  it  is  best  to  go 
backward  or  forward,  or  what  steps  to  take  to  extri- 
cate that  nation  from  its  present  dangerous  situation. 

I  thought  it  right  to  give  your  Excellency  an  ac- 
count of  these  interviews,  and  to  acquaint  you  with 
my  intention  of  avoiding  such  hereafter ;  as  I  see  but 
little  prospect  of  utility  in  them,  and  think  they  are 
very  liable  to  hurtful  misrepresentations. 

By  advices  from  London  we  learn  that  a  fleet  for 
Quebec,  with  goods  valued  at  five  hundred  thousand 
pounds  sterling,  is  to  sail  about  the  end  of  this  month, 
under  convoy  only  of  a  single  frigate  of  thirty  guns, 
in  which  is  to  go  Governor  Haldimand. 


296  The  Works  of  [1778 

Enclosed  I  send  a  paper  I  have  just  received  from 
London.  It  is  not  subscribed  by  any  name,  but  I 
know  the  hand.  It  is  from  an  old  friend,  of  general 
and  great  acquaintance,  and  marks  strongly  the 
present  distress  and  despair  of  considerate  people  in 
England.  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  with  the  greatest 
respect,  your  Excellency's,  etc.,        B.  Franklin. 


DCXCIX 


FROM  THE  COUNT  DE  VERGENNES 

Versailles,  25  April,  1778. 

Sir: — I  have  made  known  to  the  king  the  sub- 
stance of  the  letter  which  you  did  me  the  honor  of 
writing  to  me  yesterday;  and  I  am  directed  by  his 
Majesty  to  express  to  you  the  satisfaction  he  has 
experienced  from  the  information,  which  you  have 
communicated  on  your  conferences  with  Mr.  Hartley. 
The  grand  principle  of  the  English  policy  has  always 
been  to  excite  divisions;  and  it  is  by  such  means 
she  expects  to  sustain  her  empire ;  but  it  is  not  upon 
you,  nor  upon  your  colleagues,  that  she  can  practise 
such  arts  with  success. 

I  entertain  the  same  sentiments  of  confidence  in 
the  United  States.  As  to  the  rest,  it  is  impossible  to 
speak  with  more  dignity,  frankness,  and  firmness 
than  you  have  done  to  Mr.  Hartley ;  he  has  no  reason 
to  be  very  well  satisfied  with  his  mission.  I  doubt 
whether  this  member  of  Parliament  has  any  mission 
for  us ;  but  he  desires  to  see  me,  and  I  expect  him  in 
the  course  of  the  morning.  I  should  not  be  at  all 
surprised,  if  his  purpose  be  to  sow  distrust  between 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  297 

us  by  proposing  a  double  negotiation.  That  I  can 
obviate;  but  whatever  passes  between  us,  however 
trifling  it  may  be,  you  shall  be  made  acquainted  with. 
I  have  the  honor  to  be,  with  the  most  perfect  con- 
sideration, sir,  etc.,  De  Vergennes. 


DCC 


TO    MR.    JN.    ROSS  ' 

Passy,  26  April,  1778. 

Sir: — The  multiplicity  of  affairs  we  have  lately 
been  engaged  in,  together  with  Mr.  Deane's  depart- 
ure, who  used  to  correspond  with  you,  occasioned  a 
deficiency  in  answering  your  letters.  On  looking 
them  over  I  find  some  reflections  on  the  Commis- 
sioners as  having  acted  an  ingenious  part  relative  to 
the  papers  left  by  Mr.  Thomas  Morris.  It  appears 
that  you  have  not  been  well  informed ;  and  therefore 
I  would  now  give  you  the  history  of  the  transaction. 

On  the  death  of  Mr.  Morris,  it  was  represented  to 
the  Commissioners  that,  on  pretence  of  some  kind  of 
partnership  between  him  and  Mr.  Penet,  that  gentle- 
man might  probably  get  possession  of  the  papers, 
which  would  be  attended  with  great  inconvenience  in 
case  of  any  dispute  on  a  settlement  of  the  public  ac- 
counts; and  that,  therefore,  to  prevent  this,  it  was 
necessary  Mr.  W.  Lee,  the  surviving  colleague, 
should  go  down  and  take  them  into  his  custody,  but, 
to  enable  him  to  do  that,  an  order  from  government 
here  should  be  obtained,  directing  the  public  officers 

^  Endorsed:  Letter  to  Mr.  Jn.  Ross,  April  26,  '78;  not  sent  until 
May  19,  '78. 


298  The  Works  of  [1778 

in  whose  hands  they  regularly  were,  to  deliver  them 
to  him;  and  the  memorial  requesting  such  an  order 
was  brought  to  Mr.  Deane  and  me,  ready  drawn  by 
Mr.  A.  Lee,  to  be  signed,  which  we  did  without  hesita- 
tion; I,  for  my  part,  not  having  the  least  doubt  that, 
on  receiving  them,  he  would  deliver  to  you  those  be- 
longing to  the  affairs  of  Willing  &  Morris.  When  he 
returned,  he  gave  it  as  the  reason  of  his  not  doing  so 
that  you  had  quarrelled  with  him,  used  him  rudely, 
denied  his  authority  to  meddle  with  the  public  papers, 
and  required  the  whole  to  be  delivered  to  you;  on 
which  he  had  brought  the  trunk  containing  them  up  to 
Paris  as  he  received  it,  sealed  by  two  gentlemen  of 
credit ;  and  he  desired  that,  to  prevent  reflections  or 
suspicions,  it  might  be  opened  and  the  papers  divided 
in  our  presence.  We  consented  to  this ;  and  I  went  to 
his  house  for  that  purpose,  where  Mr.  Izard  attended 
to  verify  the  seals  of  the  two  gentlemen  that  were  on 
the  trunk.  But,  Mr.  Deane  being  hindered  from  at- 
tending by  an  accident,  the  business  was  postponed; 
and,  as  I  soon  after  understood  by  your  letters,  that 
Mr.  Lee  had  had  the  papers  under  his  particular  ex- 
amination several  days  before  that  formal  sealing,  of 
which  I  therefore  did  not  see  the  use,  and  apprehend- 
ing some  danger  of  being  involved  in  your  quarrel,  I 
refused,  on  consideration,  to  have  any  thing  to  do 
with  the  opening  and  sorting  of  the  papers.  Mr.  Lee 
was  about  to  set  out  for  Germany,  and  intimated 
that  our  not  doing  this  must  stop  his  journey.  To 
remove  this  obstacle,  as  Mr.  Deane  was  going  to 
America,  and  Mr.  A.  Lee  might  soon  go  to  Spain,  I 
let  him  know  that  if  he  chose  to  leave  the  trunk 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  299 

sealed  in  my  care,  to  be  delivered  in  the  same  state 
to  him  or  his  order,  I  would  consent  to  take  it.  He 
accordingly  brought  it  to  my  house,  with  a  receipt  to 
that  purpose  ready  written  for  me  to  sign.  I  signed 
it  accordingly,  and  thought  that  might  have  been 
sufficient;  but,  so  cautious  is  he,  that,  lest  I  should 
deny  my  handwriting  (I  suppose  this  reason  because 
I  cannot  conceive  another),  he  desired  four  persons 
to  put  their  hands  to  the  receipt  as  witnesses.  He 
has,  indeed,  excused  this  since,  by  saying  that  he 
meant  only  to  have  it  appear  that  those  gentlemen 
being  present  approved  of  his  delivery  of  the  trunk 
to  me.  This  might  do  for  two  of  them,  Mr.  Deane 
and  his  brother,  who,  being  Commissioners  that  with 
me  procured  for  him  the  power  of  taking  possession 
of  them,  had,  therefore,  some  right  to  give  their  ap- 
probation; but  the  two  others,  Mr.  Izard  and  Mr. 
Pringle,  had  no  concern  in  the  affair.  Thus  you  see 
how  the  trunk  comes  to  be  in  my  hands,  and  yet  not 
in  my  disposition.  It  is  said  to  contain  Mr.  Morris' 
papers.  I  know  nothing  of  the  contents,  and  can 
know  nothing  of  them,  being  obliged  to  deliver  the 
trunk  sealed  as  I  received  it,  and  I  refused  to  take 
the  ke}^;  and,  apprehending  Mr.  Lee  to  be  a  very 
artful  as  well  as  disputatious  man,  I  now  wish  I  had 
not  even  consented  to  receive  it.  You  see  here  the 
innocent  part  Mr.  Deane  and  I  have  had  in  this 
affair,  yet  Mr.  Lee  has  reflected  upon  us  in  one  of 
his  letters  to  me  as  countenancing  you  in  treating 
him  ill  at  Nantes ;  and  you  affront  us  as  having  given 
him  our  sanction  for  inspecting  and  carrying  off  the 
papers  belonging  to  the  house  of  Willing  &  Morris, 


300  The  Works  of  [1778 

but  nothing  is  more  common  than  to  pass  censures 
without  knowing  facts. 

Mr.  William  Lee,  in  some  conversation,  expressed 
his  opinion  that  a  power  to  receive  the  papers  ought 
to  come  from  Mr.  Morris'  legal  representative, 
otherwise  he  could  not  deliver  them.  I  mention  this 
for  your  information,  as  I  suppose  he  will  deliver 
them  to  no  other  person,  for  he  is  much  of  a  lawyer, 
and  would  do  every  thing  regularly.  I  am,  sir,  your 
most  humble  servant,  B.  Franklin. 


DCCI 

TO    ARTHUR    LEE 

Passy,  17  May,  1778. 
Mr.  Franklin  is  not  inclined  to  sign  this  letter  to 
Mr,  Grand:  ^ 

1.  Because  he  does  not  know  that  any  inconven- 
iences have  arisen  from  the  order  originally  given, 
that  the  orders  of  each  of  us  separately  should  be 
honored. 

2.  Because  Mr.  Lee  is  pleased  to  be  very  angry  with 
him,  which  is  expressed  in  many  of  his  letters,  and 
therefore  Mr.  Franklin  does  not  choose  to  be  obliged 
to  ask  Mr.  Lee's  consent,  whenever  he  may  have 

I  The  following  is  a  copy  of  the  letter  to  Mr.  Grand,  the  American 
banker,  which  Mr.  Lee  requested  Dr.  Franklin  to  sign: 

"Sir: — It  is  ovir  desire  that  you  accept  no  bills  nor  pay  any  money 
out  of  the  funds,  which  are  or  may  be  in  yoiir  hands  to  the  credit  of  us 
three  jointly,  without  our  joint  order.  As  it  has  been  the  practice  to 
address  letters  upon  the  business  of  the  Commission  to  Mr.  Deane,  we 
desire  that  you  will  send  to  us  all  the  letters  you  receive  so  directed, 
and  not  give  them  to  any  private  person." 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  301 

occasion  to  draw  for  his  subsistence,  as  that  consent 
cannot  be  expected  from  any  necessity  of  a  reciprocal 
compliance  on  Mr.  Franklin's  part,  Mr.  Lee  having 
secured  his  subsistence  by  taking  into  his  own  pos- 
session one  hundred  and  eighty-five  thousand  livres, 
and  his  brother,  by  a  deception  on  the  Commissioners, 
of  forty-eight  thousand.'  Mr.  Franklin  has  no  ob- 
jection to  any  resolution,  that  all  contracts  for  the 
public  shall  be  made  by  joint  consent,  or  at  least  by 
a  majority,  together  with  the  drafts  for  payment. 
Indeed,  he  wishes  that,  if  practicable,  he  might  be 
excused  from  any  concern  in  matters  of  commerce, 
which  he  so  little  understands.  But,  as  we  are  sepa- 
rately accountable  to  Congress  for  our  personal 
expenses,  and  Mr.  Franklin  does  not  desire  to  have 
the  least  control  in  those  of  his  colleagues,  so  neither 
does  he  choose  to  subject  his  to  the  control  of  Mr. 
Lee. 

3.  He  declines  signing  this  letter,  because  it  orders 
Mr.  Grand  to  deliver  to  us  all  letters  directed  to  Mr. 
Deane,  which  may  come  into  his  hands;  and,  it  being 
understood  that  Dr.  Bancroft  is  intrusted  and  em- 
powered by  Mr.  Deane  to  receive  his  letters,  and  there 
may  be  some  concerning  his  private  affairs,  with 
which  we  have  no  concern,  and  which  it  may  be  im- 
proper for  us  to  examine,  Mr.  Franklin  thinks  that 
the  supposition  of  a  possibility,  that  they  may  relate 
to  the  public,  is  not  sufficient  excuse  for  such  gratifi- 
cation of  private  curiosity.  I  have  the  honor  to  be, 
etc.,  B.  Franklin. 

*  This  "  deception, "  as  it  is  here  called,  is  explained  in  the  letter  to  the 
Committee  of  Foreign  Affairs,  dated  January  15,  1779. 


302  The  Works  of  [1778 

DCCII 

TO    DAVID    HARTLEY 

Passy,  25  May,  1778. 

Dear  Sir  : — I  am  glad  to  learn  by  the  newspapers 
that  you  got  safe  home,  where  I  hope  you  found  all 
well. 

I  wish  to  know  whether  your  ministers  have  yet 
come  to  a  resolution  to  exchange  the  prisoners  they 
hold  in  England,  according  to  the  expectations  for- 
merly given  you.  We  have  here  above  two  hundred, 
who  are  confined  in  the  Drake,  where  they  must 
be  kept,  as  we  have  not  the  use  of  prisons  on  shore, 
and  where  they  cannot  be  so  conveniently  accommo- 
dated as  we  could  wish.  But  as  the  liberal  discharge 
we  have  given  to  near  five  hundred  prisoners  taken 
on  your  coasts  has  wrought  no  disposition  to  similar 
returns,  we  shall  keep  these  and  all  we  take  hereafter, 
till  your  counsels  become  more  reasonable.  We  have 
accounts  from  the  Mill  Prison  at  Plymouth,  that  our 
people  are  not  allowed  the  use  of  pen  and  ink,  nor 
the  sight  of  a  newspaper,  nor  the  conversation  of 
friends.     Is  it  true  ? 

Be  so  good  as  to  mention  to  me  whether  the  two 
little  bills  I  gave  you  on  Nesbit  and  Vaughn  are  ac- 
cepted and  paid,  and  the  sums  of  each,  as  I  have 
omitted  to  make  a  note  of  them.  Permit  me  to  re- 
peat my  thankful  acknowledgments  for  the  very 
humane  and  kind  part  you  have  acted  in  this  affair. 
If  I  thought  it  necessary  I  would  pray  God  to  bless 
you  for  it.  But  I  know  he  will  do  so  without  my 
prayers.     Adieu,  and  believe  me  ever  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  303 

DCCIII 

TO   JOHN    PAUL   JONES 

Passy,  27  May,  1778. 

Dear  Sir: — I  received  yours  of  the  i8th,  enclos- 
ing one  for  the  Countess  of  Selkirk,  which  I  forward 
this  day  by  way  of  Holland,  as  you  desire.  It  is  a 
gallant  letter,  and  must  give  her  Ladyship  a  high  and 
just  opinion  of  your  generosity  and  nobleness  of  mind. 

The  Jersey  privateers  do  us  a  great  deal  of  mis- 
chief by  intercepting  our  supplies.  It  has  been  men- 
tioned to  me,  that  your  small  vessel,  commanded  by 
so  brave  an  officer,  might  render  great  service  by  fol- 
lowing them  where  greater  ships  dare  not  venture 
their  bottoms ;  or,  being  accompanied  and  supported 
by  some  frigates  from  Brest,  at  a  proper  distance, 
might  draw  them  out,  and  then  take  them.  I  wish 
you  to  consider  of  this,  as  it  comes  from  high  author- 
ity, and  that  you  would  immediately  let  me  know 
what  you  think  of  it,  and  when  your  ship  will  be 
ready. 

I  have  written  to  England  about  the  exchange  of 
your  prisoners.  I  congratulate  you  most  cordially 
on  your  late  success,  and  wish  for  a  continuance  and 
increase  of  the  honor  you  have  acquired.  It  will  al- 
ways be  a  pleasure  to  me  to  contribute  what  may  lie 
in  my  power  towards  your  advancement,  and  that  of 
the  brave  officers  and  men  under  your  command.  I 
am,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


304  The  Works  of  [1778 

DCCIV 

TO    JOHN    PAUL   JONES 

Passy,  I  June,  1778. 

Dear  Sir: — I  have  the  pleasure  of  informing  you 
that  it  is  proposed  to  give  you  the  command  of  the 
great  ship  we  have  built  at  Amsterdam.  By  what 
you  wrote  to  us  formerly,  I  have  ventured  to  say  in 
your  behalf,  that  this  proposition  would  be  agreeable 
to  you.  You  will  immediately  let  me  know  your 
resolution ;  which,  that  you  may  be  more  clear  in  tak- 
ing, I  must  inform  you  of  some  circumstances.  She 
is  at  present  the  property  of  the  king;  but,  as  there 
is  no  war  yet  declared,  you  will  have  the  commission 
and  flag  of  the  United  States,  and  act  under  their 
orders  and  laws.  The  Prince  de  Nassau  will  make 
the  cruise  with  you.  She  is  to  be  brought  here  under 
cover  of  a  French  merchantman,  to  be  equipped  and 
manned  in  France.  We  hope  to  exchange  your  pris- 
oners for  as  many  American  sailors ;  but,  if  that  fails, 
you  have  your  present  crew  to  be  made  up  here  with 
other  nations  and  French. 

The  other  Commissioners  are  not  acquainted  with 
this  proposition  as  yet,  and  you  see,  by  the  nature  of 
it,  that  it  is  necessary  to  be  kept  a  secret,  till  we  have 
got  the  vessel  here,  for  fear  of  difficulties  in  Holland, 
and  intenniption.  You  will  therefore  direct  your  an- 
swer to  me  alone,  it  being  desired  that,  at  present, 
the  affair  rest  between  you  and  me.  Perhaps  it  may 
be  best  for  you  to  take  a  trip  up  here  to  concert  mat- 
ters, if  in  general  you  approve  the  idea. 

I  was  much  pleased  with  reading  your  journal,  which 
we  received  yesterday.     I  am,  etc.,     B.  Franklin. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  305 

DCCV 

TO   JOHN    PAUL  JONES 

Passy,  10  June,  1778. 

Dear  Sir: — I  received  yours  of  the  ist  instant 
with  the  papers  enclosed,  which  I  have  shown  to  the 
other  Commissioners;  but  have  not  yet  had  their 
opinion  of  them.  I  only  know  that  they  had  before 
(in  consideration  of  the  disposition  and  uneasiness  of 
your  people)  expressed  an  inclination  to  order  your 
ship  directly  back  to  America.  You  will  judge  from 
what  follows,  whether  it  would  not  be  advisable  for 
you  to  propose  their  sending  her  back  with  her  people, 
and  under  some  other  command. 

In  consequence  of  the  high  opinion  the  Minister  of 
the  Marine  has  of  your  conduct  and  bravery,  it  is 
now  settled  (observe,  that  this  is  to  be  a  secret  be- 
tween us,  I  being  expressly  enjoined  not  to  communi- 
cate it  to  any  other  person,  not  even  to  the  other 
gentlemen)  that  you  are  to  have  the  frigate  from 
Holland,  which  actually  belongs  to  government,  and 
will  be  furnished  with  as  many  good  French  seamen 
as  you  shall  require.  But  you  are  to  act  under  Con- 
gress' commission.  As  you  may  like  to  have  a  num- 
ber of  Americans,  and  your  own  are  homesick,  it  is 
proposed  to  give  you  as  many  as  you  can  engage  out 
of  two  hundred  prisoners,  which  the  ministry  of 
Britain  have  at  length  agreed  to  give  us  in  exchange 
for  those  you  have  in  your  hands.  They  propose  to 
make  the  exchange  at  Calais,  where  they  are  to  bring 
the  Americans.  Nothing  is  wanting  to  this,  but 
a  list  of  yours,  containing  their  names  and  rank; 


3o6  The  Works  of  [1778 

immediately  on  the  receipt  of  which,  an  equal  number 
are  to  be  prepared  and  sent  in  a  ship  to  that  port, 
where  yours  are  to  meet  them.  Pray  send  this  list 
by  the  return  of  the  post  if  possible.  If  by  this 
means  you  can  get  a  good  new  crew,  I  think  it  will 
be  best  that  you  are  quite  free  of  the  old,  for  a  mix- 
ture might  introduce  the  infection  of  that  sickness  you 
complain  of.     But  this  may  be  left  to  your  discretion. 

Perhaps  we  shall  join  with  you  the  Providence, 
Captain  Whipple,  a  new  Continental  ship  of  thirty 
gims,  which,  in  coming  out  of  the  river  of  Providence, 
gave  the  two  frigates  that  were  posted  to  intercept 
her  each  of  them  so  heavy  a  dose  of  her  eighteen  and 
twelve-pounders,  that  they  had  not  the  courage,  or 
were  not  able,  to  pursue  her.  The  Boston  is  sup- 
posed to  be  gone  from  Bordeaux. 

It  seems  to  be  desired  that  you  should  step  up  to 
Versailles  (where  one  will  meet  you),  in  order  to 
such  a  settlement  of  matters  and  plans  with  those 
who  have  the  direction,  as  cannot  well  be  done  by 
letter.  I  wish  it  may  be  convenient  to  you  to  do  it 
directly.  The  project  of  giving  you  the  command  of 
this  ship  pleases  me  the  more,  as  it  is  a  probable 
opening  to  the  higher  preferment  you  so  justly  merit. 
I  have  the  honor  to  be,  etc.,  B.  Franklin. 


DCCVI 


TO    DAVID    HARTLEY 

Passy,  i6jvme,  1778. 

Sir: — I  received  yours  of  the  5th  inst.  acquaint- 
ing us  that  the  ministry  have  at  length  agreed  to  an 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  307 

exchange  of  prisoners.  We  shall  write  Captain  Jones 
for  the  list  required,  which  will  be  sent  you  as  soon 
as  received.  We  understand  there  are  at  least  two 
hundred.  We  desire  and  expect  that  the  number  of 
ours  shall  be  taken  from  Forton  and  Plymouth,  in 
proportion  to  the  number  in  each  place,  and  to  con- 
sist of  those  who  have  been  longest  in  confinement, 
it  being  not  only  equitable  that  they  should  be  first,' 
but  this  method  will  prevent  all  suspicions  that  you 
pick  out  the  worst  and  weakest  of  our  people,  to 
give  in  exchange  for  your  good  ones.  If  you  think 
proper  to  clear  your  prisoners  at  once,  and  give  us 
all  our  people,  we  give  you  our  solemn  engagement, 
which  we  are  sure  will  be  punctually  executed,  to 
deliver  to  Lord  Howe  in  America,  or  to  his  order, 
a  number  of  your  sailors  equal  to  the  surplus,  as  soon 
as  the  agreement  arrives  there. 

There  is  one  thing  more  which  we  desire  may  be 
observed.  We  shall  note  in  our  lists  the  names  and 
number  of  those  in  the  service  of  the  king,  distin- 
guishing them  from  those  taken  in  the  merchants' 
service;  that  in  the  exchange  to  be  made  you  may 
give  adequate  number  of  those  in  the  service  of  the 
States,  and  of  our  merchants.  This  will  prevent  any 
uneasiness  among  your  navy  men  and  ours,  if  the 
seamen  of  merchantmen  are  exchanged  before  them. 
As  It  will  be  very  troublesome  and  expensive,  as  well 
as  fatiguing  to  them,  to  march  our  people  from  Brest 
to  Calais,  we  may  endeavor  to  get  leave  for  your 
ship  to  come  to  the  road  of  Brest  to  receive  them 
there;  or,  if  that  cannot  be,  we  must  desire  from 
your  Admiralty  a  passport  for  the  ship  that  is  to 


3o8  The  Works  of  [1778 

convey  them  from  Brest  to  Calais.  If  you  have  any 
of  our  people  still  prisoners  on  board  your  ships  of 
war,  we  request  they  may  be  put  into  the  prisons,  to 
take  their  chance  of  exchange  with  the  rest. 


DCCVII 


TO    JAMES    HUTTON 

Passy,  23  June,  1778. 

My  dear  old  friend  has  here  the  paper  he  desired. ' 
We  have  had  a  marble  monument  made  at  Paris  for 
the  brave  General  Montgomery,  which  is  gone  to 
America.  If  it  should  fall  into  the  hands  of  any  of 
your  cruisers,  I  expect  you  will  exert  yourself  to  get 
it  restored  to  us,  because  I  know  the  generosity  of 
your  temper,  which  likes  to  do  handsome  things  as 
well  as  to  make  returns.  You  see  we  are  unwilling 
to  rob  the  hospital;  we  hope  your  people  will  be  found 
as  averse  to  pillaging  the  dead.     Adieu.     Yours,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


DCCVIII 


TO    AN    ENGRAVER    IN    PARIS 

Passy,  24  June,  1778. 

Sir: — On  reading  again  the  prospectus  and  ex- 
planation of  your  intended  print,  I  find  the  whole 
merit  of  giving  freedom  to  America  continues  to  be 
ascribed  to  me,  which,  as  I  told  you  in  our  first  con- 
versation, I  could  by  no  means  approve  of,  as  it 
would  be  unjust  to  the  numbers  of  wise  and  brave 

^  Passport  for  a  vessel  which  was  about  to  be  sent  to  the  Moravian 
missionaries  on  the  coast  of  Labrador.     See  infra,  March  10,  1779. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  309 

men  who,  by  their  arms  and  counsels,  have  shared 
in  the  enterprise,  and  contributed  to  its  success  (as 
far  as  it  has  yet  succeeded),  at  the  hazard  of  their 
lives  and  fortunes. 

My  proposition  to  you  was,  and  continues  to  be, 
that,  instead  of  naming  me  in  particular  in  the  ex- 
planation of  the  print,  it  should  be  said:  "  The  Con- 
gress, represented  by  a  senator  in  Roman  dress,  etc.'' 
As  it  stands,  I  cannot  consent  to  accept  the  honor 
you  propose  to  do  me  by  dedicating  the  print  to  me, 
which,  I  understand,  is  in  this  country  considered  as 
an  approbation;  and  in  my  own  country  it  would 
hurt  my  character  and  usefulness,  if  I  were  to  give 
the  least  countenance  to  such  a  pretension  by  recom- 
mending or  proposing  the  sale  of  a  print  so  explained. 
Upon  these  considerations  I  must  request  that,  if  you 
are  determined  to  proceed  in  the  engraving,  you 
would  in  a  new  prospectus  change  the  explanation 
as  above  proposed,  and  dedicate  the  print,  not  to 
me,  but  to  the  Congress.  I  have  the  honor  to  be, 
sir,  etc.,  B.  Franklin. 


DCCIX 


PROPOSED  LETTER  TO  LORD  NORTH  ^    CONCERNING 
PRISONERS 

June,  1778. 

My  Lord: — The  fortune  of  war  having  again 
made  a  number  of  British  seamen  prisoners  to  the 
United  States,  it  is  our  duty  to  trouble  you  with  a 
renewal  of  our  former  request  for  an  immediate  ex- 
change of  prisoners  in  Europe.    To  detain  imfortunate 

I  Not  sent. 


3^o  The  Works  of  [1778 

men  for  months  in  prison  and  send  them  three  thou- 
sand miles  to  make  an  exchange  which  might  take 
place  immediately  and  on  the  spot,  is  a  most  griev- 
ous and  unnecessary  addition  to  the  calamities  of 
war,  in  which  we  cannot  believe  the  British  govern- 
ment will  persist. 

It  is  with  the  utmost  regret  that  we  find  ourselves 
compelled  to  reiterate  to  your  Lordship  our  remon- 
strances against  your  treating  the  citizens  of  the 
United  States,  made  prisoners  by  the  arms  of  the 
king  of  Great  Britain,  in  a  manner  unexampled  in 
the  practice  of  civilized  nations.  We  have  received 
late  and  authentic  information  that  numbers  of  such 
prisoners,  some  of  them  fathers  of  families  in  America 
having  been  sent  to  Africa,  are  now  in  the  fort  of 
Senegal,  condemned  in  that  unwholesome  climate  to 
the  hardest  labor  and  most  inhuman  treatment. 

It  will  be  our  indispensable  duty  to  report  this  to 
the  Congress  of  the  United  States,  and  retaliation 
will  be  the  inevitable  consequence  in  Europe  as  well 
as  in  America,  unless  your  Lordship  will  authorize  us 
to  assure  Congress  that  those  unhappy  men,  as  well 
as  all  others  of  our  nation  who  have  been  treated  in 
a  similar  manner  shall  be  immediately  brought  back 
and  exchanged. 

Most  earnestly  we  beseech  your  Lordship  no 
longer  to  sacrifice  the  essential  interests  of  humanity 
to  claims  of  sovereignty,^  [of  which  the  issue  of  our 
most  solemn  appeal  to  Heaven  has  sufficiently 
proved.  It  is  a  fatal  mistake,  by  which  you  seem 
to  have  been  misled,  to  think  that  when  you  tram- 

^  The  lines  in  brackets  are  struck  out  in  draft. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  311 

pled  upon  humanity  you  triumphed  too  over  us] 
which  your  experience  must  by  this  time  have  con- 
vinced you  are  not  to  be  maintained. 

We  have  the  honor  to  be,  etc. 


DCCX 


TO    CHARLES    DE    WEISSENSTEIN  * 

Passy,  I  Jiily,  1778. 

Sir  : — I  received  your  letter,  dated  at  Brussels  the 
1 6th  past.  My  vanity  might  possibly  be  flattered  by 
your  expressions  of  compliment  to  my  understanding, 

*  Dr.  Franklin  received  a  long  letter  from  a  man  who  signed  himself 
Charles  de  Weissenstein.  The  letter  was  dated  "Brussels,  Jime  i6, 
1778,"  and  written  in  English.  The  writer  was  evidently  a  secret 
agent  from  England,  instructed  to  procure  from  Dr.  Franklin  some 
kind  of  propositions  for  a  peace.  The  name  was  doubtless  assiimed; 
and  although  the  letter  was  dated  at  Brussels,  it  was  probably  written 
in  Paris. 

The  contents  of  the  letter,  considering  the  source  in  which  it  must 
have  originated,  are  curious  and  remarkable.  The  writer  begins  by 
urging  the  impossibility  that  England  should  ever  acknowledge  the 
independence  of  the  colonies,  and  the  certainty  that  France  would 
deceive  and  betray  them.  He,  moreover,  adds  that  in  case  Parliament 
shoiild  be  induced  to  acknowledge  their  independence,  the  people  of 
England  would  not  approve  it,  and  posterity  would  never  submit  to 
it.  "Otir  title  to  the  empire,"  said  he,  ''is  indisputable;  it  will  be 
asserted,  either  by  ourselves  or  successors,  whenever  occasion  presents. 
We  may  stop  awhile  in  our  pursuit  to  recover  breath,  but  shall  as- 
suredly resume  our  career  again." 

He  then  proceeds  at  much  length  to  state  a  Plan  of  Reconciliation, 
and  the  Outline  of  the  Future  Government  in  Ainerica.  In  the  Plan  is 
the  following  extraordinary  article:  "As  the  conspicuous  public  part 
which  some  American  gentlemen  have  taken  may  expose  them  to  the 
personal  enmity  of  some  of  the  chief  persons  in  Great  Britain;  and  as  it 
is  imreasonable  that  their  services  to  their  country  should  deprive 
them  of  those  advantages  which  their  talents  would  otherwise  have 
gained  them,  the  following  persons  shall  have  offices  or  pensions  for 
life,  at  their  option,  namely,  Franklin,  Washington,  Adams,  Hancock, 


312  .  The  Works  of  [1778 

if  your  proposals  did  not  more  clearly  manifest  a 
mean  opinion  of  it. 

You  conjure  me,  in  the  name  of  the  omniscient 
and  just  God,  before  whom  I  must  appear,  and  by 
my  hopes  of  future  fame,  to  consider  if  some  expedi- 
ent cannot  be  found  to  put  a  stop  to  the  desolation 
of  America,  and  prevent  the  miseries  of  a  general 
war.  As  I  am  conscious  of  having  taken  every  step 
in  my  power  to  prevent  the  breach,  and  no  one  to 
widen  it,  I  can  appear  cheerfully  before  that  God, 
fearing  nothing  from  his  justice  in  this  particular 
though  I  have  much  occasion  for  his  mercy  in  many 
others.  As  to  my  future  fame,  I  am  content  to  rest 
it  on  my  past  and  present  conduct,  without  seeking 

etc.,  etc.  In  case  his  Majesty  or  his  successors  shotdd  ever  create 
American  peers,  then  these  persons  or  their  descendants  shall  be 
among  the  first  created,  if  they  choose  it,  Mr.  Washington  to  have 
immediately  a  brevet  of  lieutenant-general,  and  all  the  honors  and 
precedence  incident  thereto,  but  not  to  asstune  or  bear  any  command 
without  a  special  warrant  or  letter  of  service  for  that  piu-pose  from 
the  king." 

In  the  Outlines  of  Government  it  is  provided  that  each  colony  shall 
choose  its  own  form,  and  have  legislatures,  but  that  all  officers  must 
swear  allegiance  to  the  crown  and  Parliament  of  Great  Britain;  that 
no  American  shall  enjoy  any  office  of  trust  or  profit  in  Great  Britain 
without  a  special  act  of  Parliament  for  that  purpose;  in  every  other 
respect  they  are  to  enjoy  the  privileges  of  natural-bom  Englishmen; 
that  "the  judges  of  the  courts  shall  be  named  by  the  king,  and  hold 
their  offices  for  life,  and  shall  either  bear  titles  as  peers  of  America 
or  otherwise,  as  shall  be  decided  by  his  Majesty;  that  a  Congress  shall 
assemble  once  in  seven  years,  or  oftener,  if  his  Majesty  thinks  fit  to 
summon  it,  but  all  its  proceedings  are  to  be  transmitted  to  the  British 
Parliament,  without  whose  consent  no  money  shall  ever  be  granted 
by  Congress  or  any  separate  State  to  the  Crown ;  that  the  great  offices 
of  state  shall  be  named  in  the  compact,  and  that  America  shall  pro- 
vide for  them;  that  the  whole  naval  and  military  force  shall  be 
directed  by  his  Majesty;  that  the  British  Parliament  shall  fix  the 
naval  and  military  force,  and  vote  the  sums  necessary  for  its   main- 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  313 

an  addition  to  it  in  the  crooked,  dark  paths  you  pro- 
pose to  me,  where  I  should  most  certainly  lose  it. 
This  your  solemn  address  would  therefore  have  been 
more  properly  made  to  your  sovereign  and  his  venal 
Parliament.  He  and  they,  who  wickedly  began,  and 
madly  continue,  a  war  for  the  desolation  of  America, 
are  alone  accountable  for  the  consequences. 

You  endeavor  to  impress  me  with  a  bad  opinion  of 
French  faith ;  but  the  instances  of  their  friendly  en- 
deavors to  serve  a  race  of  weak  princes,  who,  by 
their  own  imprudence,  defeated  every  attempt  to 
promote  their  interest,  weigh  but  little  with  me,  when 
I  consider  the  steady  friendship  of  France  to  the 
Thirteen  United  States  of  Switzerland,  which  has 


tenance,  both  by  sea  and  land,  and  make  laws  for  its  regulation;  that 
a  tariff  of  duties  shall  be  fixed,  which  shall  not  be  changed  without 
the  mutual  consent  of  both  the  Parliament  of  Great  Britain  and  the 
colony  where  the  change  is  intended  to  be  made;  that  British  manu- 
factures shall  always  have  the  preference  over  those  of  other  nations, 
and  that  no  new  taxes  shall  ever  be  imposed  on  them  without  the 
previous  consent  of  the  ParHament  of  Great  Britain." 

Such  are  some  of  the  features  of  the  scheme  proposed  by  this  private 
agent.  Dr.  Franklin  understood  it  to  proceed  from  high  authority, 
and  framed  his  answer  accordingly.  He  sent  the  agent's  letter  to  the 
Count  de  Vergennes,  with  a  copy  of  his  answer.  They  are  now  in  the 
Archives  des  Affaires  Etr anger es  in  Paris,  where  the  above  abstract 
was  taken  from  the  original,  and  where  also  a  copy  of  Dr.  Franklin's 
answer  was  obtained  by  Mr.  Sparks.  John  Adams  in  his  "Diary" 
says  the  reply  was  submitted  to  the  Count  de  Vergennes,  but  was  never 
sent  to  Weissenstein.  On  the  day,  hour,  and  place  appointed  to  meet 
the  messenger  for  a  conference,  the  police  reported  the  appearance  of 
a  man,  who  walked  about  the  place  for  a  couple  of  hours,  always  keep- 
ing the  place  of  rendezvous  in  sight,  and  then  disappeared.  Adams 
says  they  decided  that  the  whole  matter  was  too  futile  to  be  worth 
reporting  to  Congress.  For  the  same  reason,  possibly,  the  answer 
of  Franklin  was  not  sent  to  Weissenstein.  It  was  fortunate  that  this 
futility  was  not  discovered  imtil  after  Franklin's  letter  was  written. — 
Editor. 


314  The  Works  of  [1778 

now  continued  inviolate  two  hundred  years.  You 
tell  me  that  she  will  certainly  cheat  us,  and  that  she 
despises  us  already.  I  do  not  believe  that  she  will 
cheat  us,  and  I  am  not  certain  that  she  despises  us ; 
but  I  see  clearly  that  you  are  endeavoring  to  cheat 
us  by  your  conciliatory  bills;  that  you  actually 
despised  our  understandings,  when  you  flattered 
yourselves  those  artifices  would  succeed;  and  that 
not  only  France,  but  all  Europe,  yourselves  in- 
cluded, most  certainly  and  for  ever  would  despise  us, 
if  we  were  weak  enough  to  accept  your  insidious 
propositions. 

Our  expectations  of  the  future  grandeur  of  Amer- 
ica are  not  so  magnificent,  and  therefore  not  so  vain 
or  visionary,  as  you  represent  them  to  be.  The 
body  of  our  people  are  not  merchants,  but  humble 
husbandmen,  who  delight  in  the  cultivation  of  their 
lands,  which,  from  their  fertility  and  the  variety  of 
our  climates,  are  capable  of  furnishing  all  the  neces- 
saries and  conveniences  of  life  without  external  com- 
merce ;  and  we  have  too  much  land  to  have  the  least 
temptation  to  extend  our  territory  by  conquest  from 
peaceable  neighbors,  as  well  as  too  much  justice 
to  think  of  it.  Our  militia,  you  find  by  experi- 
ence, are  sufficient  to  defend  our  lands  from  inva- 
sion; and  the  commerce  with  us  will  be  defended 
by  all  the  nations  who  find  an  advantage  in  it.  We, 
therefore,  have  not  the  occasion  you  imagine,  of 
fleets  or  standing  armies,  but  may  leave  those  ex- 
pensive machines  to  be  maintained  for  the  pomp  of 
princes,  and  the  wealth  of  ancient  states.  We  pro- 
pose, if  possible,  to  live  in  peace  with  all  mankind; 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  315 

and  after  you  have  been  convinced,  to  your  cost, 
that  there  is  nothing  to  be  got  by  attacking  us,  we 
have  reason  to  hope  that  no  other  power  will  judge 
it  prudent  to  quarrel  with  us,  lest  they  divert  us 
from  our  own  quiet  industry,  and  turn  us  into  cor- 
sairs preying  upon  theirs.  The  weight,  therefore, 
of  an  independent  empire,  which  you  seem  certain 
of  our  inability  to  bear,  will  not  be  so  great  as  you 
imagine.  The  expense  of  our  civil  government  we 
have  always  borne,  and  can  easily  bear,  because  it 
is  small.  A  virtuous  and  laborious  people  may  be 
cheaply  governed.  Determining,  as  we  do,  to  have 
no  offices  of  profit,  nor  any  sinecures  or  useless  ap- 
pointments, so  common  in  ancient  or  corrupted 
states,  we  can  govern  ourselves  a  year  for  the  sum 
you  pay  in  a  single  department,  or  for  what  one  job- 
bing contractor,  by  the  favor  of  a  minister,  can  cheat 
you  out  of  in  a  single  article. 

You  think  we  flatter  ourselves  and  are  deceived 
into  an  opinion  that  England  must  acknowledge  our 
independency.  We,  on  the  other  hand,  think  you 
flatter  yourselves  in  imagining  such  an  acknowledg- 
ment a  vast  boon,  which  we  strongly  desire,  and 
which  you  may  gain  some  great  advantage  by  grant- 
ing or  withholding.  We  have  never  asked  it  of  you ; 
we  only  tell  you  that  you  can  have  no  treaty  with 
us  but  as  an  independent  state ;  and  you  may  please 
yourselves  and  your  children  with  the  rattle  of  your 
right  to  govern  us,  as  long  as  you  have  done  with 
that  of  your  king's  being  king  of  France,  without 
giving  us  the  least  concern,  if  you  do  not  attempt  to 
exercise  it.    That  this  pretended  right  is  indisputable, 


3i6  The  Works  of  [1778 

as  you  say,  we  utterly  deny.  Your  Parliament  never 
had  a  right  to  govern  us,  and  your  king  has  for- 
feited it  by  his  bloody  tyranny.  But  I  thank  you 
for  letting  me  know  a  little  of  your  mind,  that, 
even  if  the  Parliament  should  acknowledge  our  in- 
dependency, the  act  would  not  be  binding  to  pos- 
terity, and  that  your  nation  would  resume  and 
prosecute  the  claim  as  soon  as  they  found  it  con- 
venient from  the  influence  of  your  passions,  and  your 
present  malice  against  us.  We  suspected  before  that 
you  would  not  be  actually  bound  by  your  conciliatory 
acts,  longer  than  till  they  had  served  their  purpose 
of  inducing  us  to  disband  our  forces;  but  we  were 
not  certain  that  you  were  knaves  by  principle,  and 
that  we  ought  not  to  have  the  least  confidence  in 
your  offers,  promises,  or  treaties,  though  confirmed 
by  Parliament. 

I  now  indeed  recollect  my  being  informed,  long 
since,  when  in  England,  that  a  certain  very  great  per- 
sonage, then  young,  studied  much  a  certain  book 
called  "  Arcana  Imperii. ' '  I  had  the  curiosity  to  pro- 
cure the  book  and  read  it.  There  are  sensible  and 
good  things  in  it,  but  some  bad  ones;  for,  if  I  re- 
member rightly,  a  particular  king  is  applauded  for 
his  politically  exciting  a  rebellion  among  his  subjects, 
at  a  time  when  they  had  not  strength  to  support  it, 
that  he  might,  in  subduing  them,  take  away  their 
privileges,  which  were  troublesome  to  him;  and  a 
question  is  formally  stated  and  discussed.  Whether  a 
prince,  who,  to  appease  a  revolt,  makes  promise  of  in- 
demnity to  the  revolters,  is  obliged  to  fulfil  those  pro- 
mises.    Honest  and  good  men  would  say,  Ay ;  but  this 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  317 

politician  says,  as  you  say,  No.  And  he  gives  this 
pretty  reason,  that,  though  it  was  right  to  make  the 
promises,  because  otherwise  the  revolt  would  not  be 
suppressed,  yet  it  would  be  wrong  to  keep  them, 
because  revolters  ought  to  be  punished  to  deter  from 
future  revolts. 

If  these  are  the  principles  of  your  nation,  no  con- 
fidence can  be  placed  in  you;  it  is  in  vain  to  treat 
with  you;  and  the  wars  can  only  end  in  being  re- 
duced to  an  utter  inability  of  continuing  them. 

One  main  drift  of  your  letter  seems  to  be  to  im- 
press me  with  an  idea  of  your  own  impartiality,  by 
just  censures  of  your  ministers  and  measures,  and  to 
draw  from  me  propositions  of  peace,  or  approbation 
of  those  you  have  enclosed  to  me,  which  you  intimate 
may  by  your  means  be  conveyed  to  the  king  directly, 
without  the  intervention  of  those  ministers.  You 
would  have  me  give  them  to,  or  drop  them  for,  a 
stranger,  whom  I  may  find  next  Monday  in  the 
church  of  Notre  Dame,  to  be  known  by  a  rose  in  his 
hat.  You  yourself,  sir,  are  quite  unknown  to  me; 
you  have  not  trusted  me  with  your  true  name.  Our 
taking  the  least  step  towards  a  treaty  with  England 
through  you,  might,  if  you  are  an  enemy,  be  made 
use  of  to  ruin  us  with  our  new  and  good  friends.  I 
may  be  indiscreet  enough  in  many  things;  but  cer- 
tamly,  if  I  were  disposed  to  make  propositions 
(which  I  cannot  do,  having  none  committed  to  me 
to  make),  I  should  never  think  of  delivering  them  to 
the  Lord  knows  who,  to  be  carried  to  the  Lord  knows 
where,  to  serve  no  one  knows  what  purposes.  Being 
at  this  time  one  of  the  most  remarkable  figures  in 


3i8  The  Works  of  [1778 

Paris,  even  my  appearance  in  the  church  of  Notre 
Dame,  where  I  cannot  have  any  conceivable  busi- 
ness, and  especially  being  seen  to  leave  or  drop  any 
letter  to  any  person  there,  would  be  a  matter  of 
some  speculation,  and  might,  from  the  suspicions 
it  must  naturally  give,  have  very  mischievous  con- 
sequences to  our  credit  here. 

The  very  proposing  of  a  correspondence  so  to  be 
managed,  in  a  manner  not  necessary  where  fair  deal- 
ing is  intended,  gives  just  reason  to  suppose  you  in- 
tend the  contrary.  Besides,  as  your  court  has  sent 
Commissioners  to  treat  with  the  Congress,  with  all 
the  powers  that  could  be  given  them  by  the  crown 
under  the  act  of  Parliament,  what  good  purpose  can 
be  served  by  privately  obtaining  propositions  from 
us?  Before  those  Commissioners  went,  we  might 
have  treated  in  virtue  of  our  general  powers  (with 
the  knowledge,  advice,  and  approbation  of  our 
friends),  upon  any  propositions  made  to  us.  But,  un- 
der the  present  circumstances,  for  us  to  make  propo- 
sitions, while  a  treaty  is  supposed  to  be  actually  on 
foot  with  the  Congress,  would  be  extremely  improper, 
highly  presumptuous  with  regard  to  our  constitu- 
ents, and  answer  no  good  end  whatever. 

I  write  this  letter  to  you,  notwithstanding ;  (which 
I  think  I  can  convey  in  a  less  mysterious  manner, 
and  guess  it  may  come  to  your  hands ;)  I  write  it  be- 
cause I  would  let  you  know  our  sense  of  your  pro- 
cedure which  appears  as  insidious  as  that  of  your 
conciliatory  bills.  Your  true  way  to  obtain  peace, 
if  your  ministers  desire  it,  is  to  propose  openly  to  the 
Congress  fair  and  equal  terms,  and  you  may  possibly 


T778]  Benjamin  Franklin  319 

come  sooner  to  such  a  resolution,  when  you  find  that 
personal  flatteries,  general  cajolings,  and  panegyrics 
on  our  virtue  and  wisdom  are  not  likely  to  have  the 
effect  you  seem  to  expect;  the  persuading  us  to  act 
basely  and  foolishly,  in  betraying  our  country  and 
posterity  into  the  hands  of  our  most  bitter  enemies, 
giving  up  or  selling  our  arms  and  warlike  stores,  dis- 
missing our  ships  of  war  and  troops,  and  putting 
those  enemies  in  possession  of  our  forts  and  ports. 

This  proposition  of  delivering  ourselves,  bound  and 
gagged,  ready  for  hanging,  without  even  a  right  to 
complain,  and  without  a  friend  to  be  found  after- 
wards among  all  mankind,  you  would  have  us  em- 
brace upon  the  faith  of  an  act  of  Parliament!  Good 
God !  an  act  of  your  Parliament !  This  demonstrates 
that  you  do  not  yet  know  us,  and  that  you  fancy  we 
do  not  know  you;  but  it  is  not  merely  this  flimsy 
faith  that  we  are  to  act  upon ;  you  offer  us  hope,  the 
hope  of  PLACES,  PENSIONS,  and  peerages.  These, 
judging  from  yourselves,  you  think  are  motives 
irresistible.  This  offer  to  corrupt  us,  sir,  is  with  me 
your  credential,  and  convinces  me  that  you  are  not 
a  private  volunteer  in  your  application.  It  bears 
the  stamp  of  British  court  character.  It  is  even 
the  signature  of  your  king.  But  think  for  a  moment 
in  what  light  it  must  be  viewed  in  America.  By 
PLACES,  you  mean  places  among  us,  for  you  take 
care  by  a  special  article  to  secure  your  own  to  your- 
selves. We  must  then  pay  the  salaries  in  order  to 
enrich  ourselves  with  these  places.  But  you  will 
give  us  PENSIONS,  probably  to  be  paid  too  out  of 
your  expected  American  revenue,  and  which  none 


320 


The  Works  of  [1778 


of  us  can  accept  without  deserving,  and  perhaps 
obtaining,  a  sus-pension.  Peerages!  alas!  sir,  our 
long  observation  of  the  vast  servile  majority  of  your 
peers,  voting  constantly  for  every  measure  proposed 
by  a  minister,  however  weak  or  wicked,  leaves  us 
small  respect  for  that  title.  We  consider  it  as  a  sort 
of  tar-and-feather  honor,  or  a  mixture  of  foulness  and 
folly,  which  every  man  among  us,  who  should  accept 
it  from  your  king  would  be  obliged  to  renounce,  or 
exchange  for  that  conferred  by  the  mobs  of  their 
own  country,  or  wear  it  with  everlasting  infamy.  I 
am,  sir,  your  humble  servant,  B.  Franklin. 


DCCXI 

TO    MR.    GRAND 

3  July-  1778. 

Mr.  Franklin  presents  his  respects  to  Mr.  Grand, 
and  sends  him  the  original  letter  of  which  he  has 
spoken.  In  another,  Mr.  Bingham  says  that  the 
slightest  pretext  suffices  nowadays  for  the  English  to 
seize  and  condemn  goods  of  French  merchants,  who 
cannot  even  transport  the  products  of  America  from 
one  island  to  another  without  running  the  greatest 
risks.  In  effect,  many  ships  have  been  taken  lately 
into  Dominique  for  the  sole  reason  that  they  were  the 
productions  of  America. 

It  is  to  be  remarked  that  before  these  difficulties 
the  French  merchants  could  purchase  tobacco,  rice, 
etc.,  from  the  Americans  of  the  continent,  to  be 
taken  into   France.      If  I   am  not  mistaken,  it  is 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  321 

provided  in  the  treaties  that  the  ship  of  a  friend  pro- 
tects the  merchandise  even  of  an  enemy,  much  more 
ought  it  to  guarantee  your  own  merchandise  pre- 
viously purchased  from  this  enemy. 

Mr.  Bingham  also  says  that  the  Court  of  Admiralty 
at  Dominique  is  constituted  on  such  iniquitous 
principles  that  it  encourages  condemnations,  the 
judges  receiving  a  portion  of  the  condemned  mer- 
chandise, so  that  one  can  hardly  hope  to  save  his 
property,  the  fate  of  which  depends  upon  their 
judgment. 


DCCXII 

TO    DAVID    HARTLEY 

Passy,  13  July,  1778. 

Dear  Sir: — Enclosed  is  the  list  of  our  prisoners, 
which  by  an  accident  was  long  in  coming  to  us. 
There  are  supposed  to  be  about  fifteen  more  remain- 
ing in  the  hospital,  whose  names  we  have  not  yet 
obtained,  and  about  as  many  who  being  recovered  of 
their  wounds  have  been  suffered  to  go  home  to  Eng- 
land. If  you  continue  in  the  opinion  of  making  the 
exchange  at  Calais,  you  will  send  us  the  papers  neces- 
sary to  secure  the  vessel  that  shall  transport  the  men 
from  the  ports  where  they  are  to  that  place  against 
capture ;  as  the  marching  them  thither  would  be  at- 
tended with  great  inconveniences,  and  many  of  them 
might  desert  on  the  way,  from  an  apprehension  of 
being  put  on  board  men-of-war  on  their  arrival  in 
England. 

VOL.  VII. — 21. 


322  The  Works  of  [1778 

DCCXIII 

TO   JAMES    LOVELL 

Passy,  22  July,  1778. 

Sir: — I  received  your  favor  of  May  15th,  and 
was  glad  to  find  that  mine  of  December  25th  had 
come  to  hand.  Mr.  Deane's  brother  writes  it  was 
not  signed,  which  was  an  accidental  omission.  Mr. 
Deane  is  himself,  I  hope,  with  you  long  before  this 
time,  and  I  doubt  not  every  prejudice  against  him 
is  removed.  It  was  not  alone  upon  the  proceedings 
of  Congress  that  I  formed  my  opinion  that  such 
prejudices  existed.  I  am  glad  to  understand  that 
opinion  was  groundless,  and  that  he  is  likely  to  come 
back  with  honor  in  the  commission  to  Holland, 
where  matters  are  already  so  ripe  for  his  operations 
that  he  cannot  fail  (with  his  abilities)  of  being 
useful. 

You  mention  former  letters  of  the  Committee,  by 
which  we  might  have  seen  the  apprehensions  of  the 
resentment  of  foreign  officers,  etc.  Those  letters 
never  came  to  hand.  And  we,  on  our  part,  are 
amazed  to  hear  that  the  Committee  had  had  no  line 
from  us  for  near  a  year,  during  which  we  had  written, 
I  believe,  five  or  six  long  and  particular  letters,  and 
had  made  it  a  rule  to  send  triplicates  of  each,  and  to 
replace  those  that  we  happened  to  hear  were  lost,  so 
that  of  some  there  were  five  copies  sent;  and  as  I 
hear  that  Captain  Young  is  arrived,  who  had  some  of 
them,  I  think  it  probable  that  one  of  each,  at  least, 
must  have  come  to  your  hands  before  this  time.  Mr. 
Deane's  information,  however,  may  supply  the  want 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  323 

of  them,  whose  arrival,  as  he  went  with  a  strong 
squadron  of  men-of-war,  is  more  likely  than  that  of 
this  vessel,  or  any  other  single  one  by  which  we 
might  send  more  copies. 

The  affair  with  M.  de  Beaumarchais  will  be  best 
settled  by  his  assistance  after  his  return.  We  find  it 
recommended  to  us,  but  we  know  too  little  of  it  to 
be  able  to  do  it  well  without  him. 

There  has  been  some  inaccuracy  in  sending  us  the 
last  despatches  of  the  Committee.  Two  copies  of 
the  contract  with  M.  Francy,  and  the  invoices,  came 
by  the  same  vessel,  Captain  Niles.  And  though  one 
of  your  letters  mentions  sending  enclosed  a  resolution 
of  Congress  relative  to  two  articles  of  the  treaty,  that 
resolution  is  not  come  to  hand.  There  are  circum- 
stances in  the  affair  of  those  articles  that  make  them, 
in  my  opinion,  of  no  consequence  if  they  stand,  while 
the  proposing  to  abrogate  them  has  an  unpleasing 
appearance,  as  it  looks  like  a  desire  of  having  it  in 
our  power  to  make  that  commercial  kind  of  war, 
which  no  honest  state  can  begin,  which  no  good  friend 
or  neighbor  ever  did  or  will  begin,  which  has  always 
been  considered  as  an  act  of  hostility  that  provoked 
as  well  as  justified  reprisals,  and  has  generally  pro- 
duced such  as  rendered  the  first  project  as  unprofit- 
able as  it  was  unjust. 

Commerce  among  nations,  as  well  as  between  pri- 
vate persons,  should  be  fair  and  equitable,  by  equiva- 
lent exchanges  and  mutual  supplies.  The  taking  of 
unfair  advantages  of  a  neighbor's  necessities,  though 
attended  with  temporary  success,  always  breeds  bad 
blood.     To  lay  duties  on  a  commodity  exported, 


324  The  Works  of  [1778 

which  our  neighbors  want,  is  a  knavish  attempt  to 
get  something  for  nothing.  The  statesman  who  first 
invented  it  had  the  genius  of  a  pickpocket,  and  would 
have  been  a  pickpocket  if  fortune  had  suitably  placed 
him.  The  nations,  who  have  practised  it  have  suf- 
fered fourfold,  as  pickpockets  ought  to  suffer.  Savoy, 
by  a  duty  on  exported  wines,  lost  the  trade  of  Switz- 
erland, which  thenceforth  raised  its  own  wine;  and 
(to  waive  other  instances)  Britain,  by  her  duty  on  ex- 
ported tea,  has  lost  the  trade  of  her  colonies.  But,  as 
we  produce  no  commodity  that  is  peculiar  to  our 
country,  and  which  may  not  be  obtained  elsewhere, 
the  discouraging  the  consumption  of  ours  by  duties 
on  exportation,  and  thereby  encouraging  a  rivalship 
from  other  nations  in  the  ports  we  trade  to,  is  abso- 
lute folly,  which,  indeed,  is  mixed,  more  or  less  with 
all  knavery.  For  my  own  part,  if  my  protest  were 
of  any  consequence,  I  should  protest  against  our  ever 
doing  it,  even  by  way  of  reprisal.  It  is  a  meanness 
with  which  I  would  not  dirty  the  conscience  or  char- 
acter of  my  country. 

The  objections  stated  against  the  last  of  the  two 
articles  had  all  been  made  and  considered  here ;  and 
were  sent,  I  imagine,  from  hence,  by  one  who  is  of- 
fended that  they  were  not  thought  of  weight  suffi- 
cient to  stop  the  signing  of  the  treaty  till  the  king 
should,  in  another  council,  reconsider  those  articles, 
and,  after  agreeing  to  omit  them,  order  new  copies 
to  be  drawn,  though  all  was  then  ready  engrossed  on 
parchment  as  before  settled.  I  did  not  think  the  ar- 
ticles of  much  consequence ;  but  I  thought  it  of  con- 
sequence that  no  delay  should  be  given  to  the  signing 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  325 

of  the  treaty  after  it  was  ready.  But,  if  I  had  known 
that  those  objections  would  have  been  sent  to  the 
Committee,  I  should  have  sent  the  answers  they 
received,  which  had  been  satisfactory  to  all  the  Com- 
missioners, when  the  treaty  was  settled,  and  until 
the  mind  of  one  '  of  them  was  altered  by  the  opinion 
of  two  other  persons.^  It  is  now  too  late  to  send 
those  answers.  But  I  wish,  for  the  future,  if  such  a 
case  should  again  happen,  that  Congress  would  ac- 
quaint their  Commissioners  with  such  partial  objec- 
tions, and  hear  their  reasons  before  they  determine 
that  they  have  done  wrong.  In  the  meantime  this 
only  to  you  in  private;  it  will  be  of  no  use  to  com- 
municate it,  as  the  resolutions  of  Congress  will  prob- 
ably be  received  and  executed  before  this  letter 
comes  to  hand. 

Speaking  of  Commissioners  in  the  plural,  puts  me 
in  mind  of  inquiring,  if  it  can  be  the  intention  of 
Congress  to  keep  three  Commissioners  at  this  court; 
we  have,  indeed  four  with  the  gentleman  intended 
for  Tuscany,  who  continues  here,  and  is  very  angry 
that  he  was  not  consulted  in  making  the  treaty, 
which  he  could  have  mended  in  several  particulars; 
and  perhaps  he  is  angry  with  some  reason,  if  the  in- 
structions to  him  do,  as  he  says  they  do,  require  us  to 
consult  him.  We  shall  soon  have  the  fifth,  for  the 
envoy  to  Vienna,  not  being  received  there,  is,  I  hear, 
returning  hither.  The  necessary  expense  of  main- 
taining us  all  is,  I  assure  you,  enormously  great.  I 
wish  that  the  utility  may  equal  it.     I  imagine  every 

*  Arthur  Lee. — See  Diplomatic  Correspondence,  Vol,  II.,  p.  127. 
2  Ralph  Izard  and  William  Lee. 


326  The  Works  of  [1778 

one  of  us  spends  nearly  as  much  as  Lord  Stormont 
did.  It  is  true,  he  left  behind  him  the  character  of  a 
niggard ;  and,  when  the  advertisement  appeared  for 
the  sale  of  his  household  goods,  all  Paris  laughed  at 
an  article  of  it,  perhaps  very  innocently  expressed: 
"  Une  grande  quantite  du  linge  de  table,  qui  n'a  jamais 
serviy  " Cela  est  tres  vraisemblable,''  say  they;  ''car 
it  n'a  jamais  donne  a  manger." 

But,  as  to  our  number,  whatever  advantage  there 
might  be  in  the  joint  counsels  of  three  for  framing 
and  adjusting  the  articles  of  the  treaty,  there  can  be 
none  in  managing  the  common  business  of  a  resident 
here.  On  the  contrary,  all  the  advantages  in  nego- 
tiation that  result  from  secrecy  of  sentiment  and  uni- 
formity in  expressing  it,  and  in  common  business 
from  despatch,  are  lost.  In  a  court,  too,  where  every 
word  is  watched  and  weighed,  if  a  number  of  Com- 
missioners do  not  every  one  hold  the  same  language 
in  giving  their  opinion  on  any  public  transaction,  this 
lessens  their  weight ;  and  when  it  may  be  prudent  to 
put  on  or  avoid  certain  appearances  of  concern,  for 
example,  or  indifference,  satisfaction,  or  dislike,  where 
the  utmost  sincerity  and  candor  should  be  used  and 
would  gain  credit,  if  no  semblance  of  art  showed  it- 
self in  the  inadvertent  discourse,  perhaps  of  only  one 
of  them,  the  hazard  is  in  proportion  to  the  number. 
And  where  every  one  must  be  consulted  on  every 
particular  of  common  business,  in  answering  every 
letter,  etc.,  and  one  of  them  is  offended  if  the  smallest 
thing  is  done  without  his  consent,  the  difficulty  of 
being  often  and  long  enough  together,  the  different 
opinions,  and  the  time  consumed  in  debating  them, 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  327 

the  interruptions  by  new  applicants  in  the  time  of 
meeting,  etc.,  etc.,  occasion  so  much  postponing  and 
delay  that  correspondence  languishes,  occasions  are 
lost,  and  the  business  is  always  behindhand. 

I  have  mentioned  the  difficulty  of  being  often  and 
long  enough  together.  This  is  considerable,  where 
they  cannot  all  be  accommodated  in  the  same  house ; 
but  to  find  three  people  whose  tempers  are  so  good, 
and  who  like  so  well  one  another's  company  and 
manner  of  living  and  conversing  as  to  agree  well 
themselves,  though  being  in  one  house,  and  whose 
servants  will  not  by  their  indiscretion  quarrel  with 
one  another,  and  by  artful  misrepresentations  draw 
their  masters  in  to  take  their  parts,  to  the  disturbance 
of  necessary  harmony,  these  are  difficulties  still 
greater  and  almost  insurmountable.  And,  in  con- 
sideration of  the  whole,  I  wish  Congress  would  sepa- 
rate us. 

The  Spanish  galleons,  which  have  been  impatiently 
expected,  are  at  length  happily  arrived.  The  fleet 
and  army  returning  from  Brazil  is  still  out,  but  sup- 
posed to  be  on  the  way  homewards.  When  that  and 
the  South  Sea  ships  are  arrived,  it  will  appear  whether 
Spain's  accession  to  the  treaty  has  been  delayed  for 
the  reasons  given,  or  whether  the  reasons  were  only 
given  to  excuse  the  delay. 

The  English  and  French  fleets,  of  nearly  equal 
force,  are  now  both  at  sea.  It  is  not  doubted  but 
that,  if  they  meet,  there  will  be  a  battle ;  for,  though 
England  through  fear  affects  to  understand  it  to  be 
still  peace,  and  would  excuse  the  depredations  she 
has  made  on  the  commerce  of  France,  by  pretences 


328  The  Works  of  [1778 

of  illicit  trade,  etc.,  yet  France  considers  the  war  be- 
giin,  from  the  time  of  the  king's  message  to  Parlia- 
ment, complaining  of  the  insult  France  had  given  by 
treating  with  us,  and  demanding  aids  to  resist  it,  and 
the  answer  of  both  houses,  offering  their  lives  and 
fortunes.  These,  and  the  taking  several  frigates, 
are  deemed  indisputable  hostilities.  Accordingly, 
orders  are  given  to  all  the  fleets  and  armed  ships  to 
return  hostilities,  and  encouragement  is  offered  to 
privateers,  etc.  An  ambassador  from  Spain  is  indeed 
gone  to  London,  and  joyfully  received  there,  in  the 
idea  that  peace  may  be  made  by  his  mediation.  But 
as  yet  we  learn  nothing  certain  of  his  mission,  and 
doubt  his  effecting  any  thing  of  the  kind. 

War  in  Germany  seems  to  be  inevitable,  and  this 
occasioning  great  borrowings  of  money  in  Holland 
and  elsewhere,  by  the  powers  concerned,  makes  it 
more  difficult  for  us  to  succeed  in  ours.  When  we 
engaged  to  Congress  to  pay  their  bills  for  the  interest 
of  the  sums  they  should  borrow,  we  did  not  dream  of 
their  drawing  on  us  for  other  occasions.  We  have 
already  paid  of  Congress'  drafts,  to  returned  officers, 
eighty-two  thousand  two  hundred  and  eleven  livres, 
and  we  know  not  how  much  more  of  that  kind  we 
have  to  pay,  because  the  Committee  have  never  let 
us  know  the  amount  of  those  drafts,  or  their  account 
of  them  never  reached  us,  and  they  still  continue 
coming  in.  And  we  are  now  surprised  with  advice 
of  drafts  from  Mr.  Bingham,  to  the  amount  of  one 
hundred  thousand  more.  If  you  reduce  us  to  bank- 
ruptcy here,  by  a  non-payment  of  your  drafts,  con- 
sider the  consequences.     In  my  humble  opinion  no 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  329 

drafts  should  be  made  on  us  without  first  learning 
from  us  that  we  shall  be  able  to  answer  them. 

M.  de  Beaumarchais  has  been  out  of  town  ever 
since  the  arrival  of  your  power  to  settle  with  him.  I 
hope  he  will  be  able  to  furnish  the  supplies  men- 
tioned in  the  invoice  and  contract.  The  settlement 
may  be  much  better  made  with  the  assistance  of  Mr. 
Deane,  we  being  not  privy  to  the  transactions.  We 
have  agreed  to  give  M.  Dumas  two  hundred  louis  a 
year,  thinking  that  he  well  deserves  it.  With  great 
esteem,  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


DCCXIV 

TO    DAVID    HARTLEY 

Passy,  3  September,  1778. 

Dear  Sir:— I  received  duly  your  favors  of  July 
14th  and  August  14th.  I  hoped  to  have  answered 
them  sooner  by  sending  passport.  Multiplicity  of 
business  has,  I  suppose,  been  the  only  occasion  of 
delay  in  the  ministers  to  consider  of  and  make  out  the 
said  passport. 

I  hope  now  soon  to  have  it,  as  I  do  not  find  there 
is  any  objection  made  to  it.  In  a  former  letter  I 
proposed  to  you  that  the  exchange  would,  in  my 
opinion,  be  preferable  at  or  near  Brest,  and  I  ex- 
pected some  time  your  answer  on  that  point.  But 
perhaps  you  have  not  received  my  letter;  you  say 
nothing  of  it. 

I  wish  with  you  as  much  for  the  restoration  of 


330 


The  Works  of  [1778 


peace,  as  we  both  formerly  did  for  the  continuance 
of  it.  But  it  must  now  be  a  peace  of  a  different 
kind.  I  was  fond  to  a  folly  of  our  British  connec- 
tions, and  it  was  with  infinite  regret  that  I  saw  the 
necessity  you  would  force  us  into  of  breaking  it.  But 
the  extreme  cruelty  with  which  we  have  been  treated 
has  now  extinguished  every  thought  of  returning  to 
it,  and  separated  us  for  ever.  You  have  thereby  lost 
limbs  that  will  never  grow  again. 

We,  too,  have  suffered  greatly,  but  our  losses  will 
soon  be  repaired  by  our  good  government,  our  indus- 
try, and  the  fertiUty  of  our  country.  And  we  now 
see  the  mischievous  consequences  of  such  a  connec- 
tion, and  the  danger  of  their  being  repeated  if  we 
should  be  weak  enough  to  enter  into  it ;  we  see  this 
too  plainly  ever  to  Hsten  in  the  least  to  any  such 
proposition.  We  may  therefore,  with  great  pro- 
priety, take  leave  of  you  in  those  beautiful  lines  of 
Dante  to  the  late  mistress  of  his  affection. 


DCCXV 


TO   JOHN    PAUL   JONES 

Passy,  6  September,  1778. 

Dear  Captain  : — I  received  your  favors  of  the  24th 

and  31st  of  August.     I  am  told,  by  M.  de  C ,' 

that  M.  de  S ""  is  sorry  you  did  not  go  with  M. 

d'OrvilHers.     He  had  sent  orders  for  that  purpose, 
and  your  staying  at  L 'Orient  occasioned  your  missing 

^  Probably  de  Chaumont.  ^  Probably  de  Sartine. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  331 

the  opportimity.  Your  letter  was  sent  to  the  Prince 
de  Nassau.  I  am  confident  something  will  be  done 
for  you,  though  I  do  not  yet  know  what. 

Dr.  Bancroft  has  been  indisposed,  and  I  have  not 
lately  seen  him ;  but  I  hear  he  is  getting  better,  and 
suppose  he  has  written.  I  go  out  of  town  early  this 
morning  for  a  few  days,  but  the  other  Commissioners 
will  answer  your  letter.  I  am  glad  you  have  pro- 
cured a  guard  for  the  prisoners.  It  is  a  good  piece 
of  service.  They  have  concluded  in  England  to  send 
us  an  equal  number  of  ours,  and  we  expect  to-morrow 
to  send  the  passport  for  their  cartel  ship,  which  is  to 
bring  them.  If  we  are  to  deliver  theirs  at  Calais, 
I  should  be  for  accepting  thankfully  the  offer  you 
mention. 

We  have  no  news  from  America,  but  what  comes 
through  England.  Clinton's  letter  is  in  the  London 
Gazette,  and  for  style  and  coloring  is  so  Hke  Keppel's 
that  I  cannot  help  thinking  neither  of  them  originals, 
but  both  the  performance  of  some  under-secret ary, 
whose  business  it  is  to  cook  the  news  for  the  minis- 
ters. Upon  the  whole,  we  learn  that  the  English 
army  was  well  worried  in  its  march,  ^  and  that  their 
whole  fleet  and  forces  are  now  blocked  up  in  New 
York  by  Washington  and  Gates  on  the  land  side,  and 
by  Count  d'Estaing  by  sea,  and  that  they  will  soon  be 
in  want  of  provisions.  I  sympathize  with  you  in 
what  I  know  you  must  suffer  from  your  present  in- 
activity; but  have  patience.     I  am,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 

I  The  march  across  New  Jersey  to  New  York,  after  the  evactiation  of 
Philadelphia.     Dtiring  this  march  was  fought  the  battle  of  Monmouth. 


332  The  Works  of  [1778 

DCCXVI 

TO    DAVID    HARTLEY 

Passy,  14  September,  1778. 

Dear  Sir  : — I  now  send  you  the  passport  required. 
I  postponed  answering  your  last  in  hopes  of  obtaining 
it  sooner,  but  though  it  was  long  since  agreed  to, 
much  business  in  the  Admiralty  Department  here 
has,  I  suppose,  occasioned  its  delay.  The  port  of 
Calais  was  not  approved  of,  and  I  think  the  ports 
mentioned  (Nantes  or  L 'Orient)  are  better  for  you  as 
well  as  for  us,  not  only  as  being  nearer  to  Plymouth, 
but  as  many  of  your  sailors  would  probably  have 
found  opportunities  of  deserting  in  the  long  march 
from  Brest  to  Calais,  they  being  afraid  of  the  press. 
I  understand  that  upwards  of  eighty  more  of  your 
people  have  been  brought  by  otu-s  prisoners  into 
France  since  the  list  I  sent  you,  but  I  cannot  now 
send  you  their  names.  You  have  not  mentioned 
whether  the  proposition  of  sending  us  the  whole  of 
those  in  your  prisons  was  agreed  to.  If  it  is,  you 
may  rely  on  our  sending  immediately  all  that  come  to 
our  hands  for  the  future;  or  we  will  give  you  your 
option,  an  order  for  the  balance  to  be  delivered  to 
your  fleet  in  America.  By  putting  a  little  confidence 
in  one  another,  we  may  thus  diminish  the  miseries  of 
war.  To  make  the  expense  of  these  exchanges  more 
equal,  if  another  cartel  ship  should  hereafter  be  neces- 
sary, we  hereby  promise  to  send  to  England  at  our 
charge ;  and  so  it  may  continue  to  be  done  alternately 
as  long  as  the  war  continues. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  333 

DCCXVII 

franklin's  notes  on  the  condition  of  his  health 

FROM    1778-80 

Passy,  4  October,  1778.  As  my  constitution  ap- 
pears to  have  undergone  some  considerable  changes 
within  the  last  three  or  four  years,  it  may  be  of  use 
to  make  some  notes  of  the  changes  past,  and  to 
continue  them,  in  order  to  ascertain  what  are  hurtful 
or  beneficial. 

I  had  enjoyed  continued  health  for  nearly  twenty 
years,  except  once  in  two  or  three  years  a  slight  fit  of 
the  gout,  which  generally  terminated  in  a  week  or 
ten  days,  and  once  an  intermitting  fever,  got  from 
making  experiments  over  stagnate  waters. 

I  was  sometimes  vexed  with  an  itching  on  the 
back,  which  I  observed  particularly  after  eating  freely 
of  beef.  And  sometimes  after  long  confinement  at 
writing,  with  little  exercise,  I  have  felt  sudden  pun- 
gent pains  in  the  flesh  of  different  parts  of  the  body, 
which  I  was  told  was  scorbutic.  A  journey  used  to 
free  me  of  them. 

In  1773,  being  in  Ireland,  I  was,  after  a  plentiful 
dinner  of  fish  the  first  day  of  my  arrival,  seized  with 
a  violent  vomiting  and  looseness.  The  latter  con- 
tinued, though  more  moderate,  as  long  as  I  stayed  in 
that  kingdom,  which  was  four  or  five  weeks. 

On  my  return  I  first  observed  a  kind  of  scab  or 
scurf  on  my  head  about  the  bigness  of  a  shilling. 
Finding  it  did  not  heal,  but  rather  increased,  I  men- 
tioned it  to  my  friend,  Sir.  J.   P.,  who  advised  a 


334  The  Works  of  [1778 

mercurial  water  to  wash  it,  and  some  physic.  It 
slowly  left  that  place,  but  appeared  in  other  parts 
of  my  head.  He  also  advised  my  abstaining  from 
salted  meats  and  cheese,  which  advice  I  did  not  much 
follow,  often  forgetting  it. 

In  1775  I  went  to  America.  On  the  passage  I 
necessarily  ate  more  salt  meat  than  usual  with  me 
at  London.  I  immediately  entered  the  Congress, 
where,  and  with  the  Committee  of  Safety,  I  sat  great 
part  of  that  year  and  the  next,  ten  or  twelve  hours  a 
day,  without  exercise.  We  lost  three  members  in 
those  years  by  apoplexies,  viz.:  Mr.  Randolf,  M. 
Bary,  and  Mr.  Lynch.  I  had  frequent  giddinesses. 
I  went  to  Canada.  On  the  passage  I  suffered  much 
from  a  number  of  large  boils.  In  Canada  my  legs 
swelled,  and  I  apprehended  dropsy.  Boils  con- 
tinued and  harassed  me  after  my  return,  but  the 
swelling  of  my  legs  passed  off.  The  boils,  however, 
left  round  them  a  kind  of  dry  scab  or  scurfiness, 
which  being  rubbed  off  appeared  in  the  form  of  white 
bran.     My  giddiness  left  me. 

In  my  passage  to  France,  November,  1776,  I  lived 
chiefly  on  salt  beef,  the  fowls  being  too  hard  for  my 
teeth.  But,  being  poorly  nourished,  I  was  very  weak 
at  my  arrival;  boils  continued  to  vex  me,  and  the 
scurf  extending  over  all  the  small  of  my  back,  on  my 
sides,  my  legs,  and  my  arms,  besides  what  continued 
under  my  hair,  I  applied  to  a  physician,  who  ordered 
me  Mr.  Bellosto's  pills  and  an  infusion  of  a  root 
called  .     I  took  the  infusion  awhile,  but  it 

being  disagreeable,  and  finding  no  effect,  I  omitted 
it.     I  continued  longer  to  take  the  pills,  but  finding 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  335 

my  teeth  loosening,  and  that  I  had  lost  three,  I  de- 
sisted the  use  of  them.  I  found  that  bathing  stopped 
the  progress  of  the  disorder.  I  therefore  took  the  hot 
bath  twice  a  week,  two  hours  at  a  time,  till  this  last 
summer.  It  always  made  me  feel  comfortable  as  I 
rubbed  off  the  softened  scurf  in  the  warm  water; 
and  I  otherwise  enjoyed  exceeding  good  health. 

I  stated  my  case  to  Dr.  Ingenhousz,  and  desired 
him  to  show  it  to  Sir  J.  P.  and  obtain  his  advice. 
They  sent  me  from  London  some  medicine,  but,  Dr. 
Ingenhousz  proposing  to  come  over  soon,  and  the 
affair  not  pressing,  I  resolved  to  omit  taking  the  med- 
icines till  his  arrival. 

In  July  the  disorder  began  to  diminish,  at  first 
slowly,  but  afterwards  rapidly ;  and  by  the  beginning 
of  October  it  had  quitted  entirely  my  legs,  feet, 
thighs,  and  arms,  and  my  belly;  a  very  little  was 
left  on  my  sides,  more  on  the  small  of  my  back,  but 
the  whole  daily  diminishing. 

I  observed  that  there  was  no  redness  under  the 
scurf;  if  I  took  it  once  off  it  did  not  return.  I  had 
hardly  bathed  in  those  three  months.  I  took  no 
remedy  whatever,  and  I  know  not  what  to  ascribe 
the  change  to,  unless  it  was  the  heat  of  the  summer, 
which  sometimes  made  me  sweat,  particularly  when 
I  exercised.  I  had  five  boils  just  before  the  amend- 
ment commenced,  which  discharged  a  great  deal  of 
matter.  And  once  my  legs  began  again  to  swell,  but 
that  went  off  in  a  few  days,  and  I  have  been  other- 
wise extremely  well  and  hearty. 

The  second  instant,  October,  I  ate  a  hearty  supper, 
much  cheese,  and  drank  a  good  deal  of  champagne. 


336  The  Works  of  [1778 

The  3d,  I  ate  no  breakfast,  but  a  hearty  dinner, 
and  at  night  found  my  back  itch  extremely,  near  the 
shoulders,  which  continues  to-day,  the  4th.  I  ate 
some  salted  beef  at  dinner  yesterday,  but  not  much. 
I  wish  the  cool  weather  may  not  bring  on  a  return  of 
the  disorder. 

Oct.  4th.  The  itching  continues,  but  somewhat 
abated. 

Oct.  6th.  Drank  but  one  glass  of  wine  to-day ;  the 
itching  almost  gone.  I  begin  to  think  it  will  be  bet- 
ter for  me  to  abstain  from  wine.  My  dinner  to-day 
was  mutton,  boiled,  and  fowl,  with  a  good  deal  of 
fruit. 

Oct.  12th.  I  have  lately  drank  but  little  wine. 
The  itching  has  not  returned.  The  scurf  continues 
to  diminish.  But  yesterday  I  observed  my  ankles 
swelled.  I  suppose  my  having  used  no  exercise 
lately  may  be  the  cause. 

Jan.  14,  1779.  The  swelling  above-mentioned 
continued  some  few  weeks,  being  greatest  at  night; 
my  complexion  at  the  same  time  not  fresh.  At 
length  the  itching  returned,  and  a  new  set  of  erup- 
tions of  scurfy  spots  appeared  in  many  parts  of 
my  body.  My  back  had  never  been  entirely  cleared, 
and  the  scurf  began  to  increase  there  and  extend 
itself ;  but  it  is  not  yet  so  bad  as  it  has  been,  and  it 
seems  to  spare  the  parts  that  were  before  affected, 
except  in  my  back.  The  swelling  has  left  my  legs, 
which  are  now  as  dry  and  firm  as  ever,  and  I  feel 
myself  otherwise  in  perfect  health,  and  have  as  much 
vigor  and  activity  as  can  be  expected  of  my  age ;  so 
that  I  begin  to  be  more  reconciled  to  this  trouble- 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  337 

some  disorder,  as  considering  it  an  effort  of  nature 
to  get  rid  of  peccant  matter  that  might,  if  not  dis- 
charged, break  up  my  constitution,  etc. 

Feb.  28,  1779.  The  disorder  on  my  skin  has  con- 
tinued augmenting.  On  Monday,  the  1 5th,  I  dined, 
and  drank  rather  too  freely  at  M.  Darcy's.  Tuesday 
morning  I  felt  a  little  pain  in  my  right  great  toe.  I 
bathed  that  day  in  the  hot  bath,  which  I  had  long 
omitted.  A  regular  fit  of  the  gout  came  on,  which 
swelled  my  foot  exceedingly,  and  I  have  had  a  little 
in  my  left  foot.  It  is  now  going  off,  and  I  hope  to 
get  abroad  in  a  day  or  two.  No  remarkable  change 
in  other  respects.  In  this  fit  I  had  very  little  appe- 
tite, which  I  do  not  remember  to  have  been  the  case 
in  the  former  fits. 

Jan.  16,  1780.  I  have  enjoyed  good  health  ever 
since  the  last  date.  Towards  the  end  of  the  sum- 
mer most  of  the  disorder  in  my  skin  disappeared,  a 
little  only  remaining  on  my  left  arm,  a  little  under 
each  breast,  and  some  on  the  small  of  my  back.  I 
had  taken  at  different  times  a  good  deal  of  Dr.  Prin- 
gle's  prescription;  but  whether  that  occasioned  the 
amendment,  or  whether  it  was  the  heat  of  the  sum- 
mer, as  I  supposed  in  October,  1778,  I  am  uncertain. 
The  disorder  seems  to  be  now  increasing  again,  and 
appears  upon  my  hands.  I  am  otherwise  well;  my 
legs  sound;  to-morrow  I  enter  on  my  seventy-fifth 
year. 

VOL.  VII. — 22. 


33^  The  Works  of  [1778 

DCCXVIII 

TO    F.    GRAND  ^ 

Passy,  14  October,  1778. 

Sir  : — I  have  considered  the  note  you  put  into  my 
hands,  containing  a  complaint  of  the  conduct  of  Cap- 
tain Conyngham  in  the  Revenge  privateer.  We  have 
no  desire  to  justify  him  in  any  irregularities  he  may 
have  committed.  On  the  contrary,  we  are  obliged  to 
our  friends,  who  give  us  information  of  misconduct 
of  any  cruisers,  that  we  may  take  the  occasion  of 
representing  the  same  to  our  government,  and 
recommending   more   effectual   provisions  for   sup- 

I  John  Adams,  in  his  diary,  gives  the  following  account  of  the  gentle- 
man to  whom  this  letter  is  addressed:  "Mr.  Ferdinand  Grand  was  a 
Protestant,  from  Switzerland,  who  had  a  house  in  Paris.  Himself,  his 
lady,  niece,  and  sons,  composed  as  decent,  modest,  and  regular  family 
as  I  ever  knew  in  France.  It  was,  however,  by  M.  Chaumont's  in- 
fluence with  the  Count  de  Vergennes  and  M.  de  Sartine  that  he  ob- 
tained the  reputation  and  emolument  of  being  the  banker  to  the 
American  ministers.  Sir  George  Grand,  his  brother,  might  contribute 
something  towards  this  favor,  because  he  had  kept  an  inn  at  Stock- 
holm when  the  Cotmt  de  Vergennes  was  Ambassador  of  France  in 
Sweden,  and  accomplished  the  revolution  of  that  kingdom  to  an 
absolute  monarchy.  This  was  a  mere  measure  of  economy  in  the 
French  court,  because,  before,  it  has  cost  them,  in  bribes  to  the  States, 
more  money  than  they  could  well  afford.  The  meeting  of  de  Vergennes 
with  the  heads  of  the  conspiracy  had  been  held  at  Mr.  Grand's  inn, 
and  he  was  rewarded  with  a  cross  of  St.  Louis,  which  gave  him  the 
title  of  Sir,  as  I  suppose,  having  never  heard  that  he  had  any  English 
knighthood,  although  he  had  lived  in  England,  where  he  married 
his  daughter  to  the  Major  or  Colonel  who  was  afterwards  General 
Provost.  This  lady,  as  I  presume,  is  the  same  who  afterwards  married 
Colonel  Burr,  of  New  York,  and  was  the  mother  of  Mrs.  Allston, 
of  South  Carolina.  Sir  George  was  connected  in  partnership  with  the 
house  of  Homeca  Fizeau  &  Co.,  in  Amsterdam,  a  mercantile  and 
banking  company,  and  who  had,  or  were  supposed  to  have,  the  favor 
and  confidence  of  the  French  ministers  of  State." — Editor. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  339 

pressing,  punishing,  and  preventing  such  practices 
in  future. 

By  the  papers  I  have  the  honor  to  send  you  en- 
closed, and  which  I  request  you  would  put  into  the 
hands  of  his  Excellency,  Count  d'Aranda,  the  care  of 
the  Congress  to  avoid  giving  offence  to  neutral  powers 
will  appear  most  evident:  First,  in  the  commission 
given  to  privateers,  wherein  it  appears  that  sureties 
are  taken  of  their  owners,  that  nothing  shall  be  done 
by  them  ''inconsistent  with  the  usage  and  custom  of 
nations, ' '  and  those  sureties  are  obliged  to  make  good 
all  damages.  Courts  of  admiralty  are  regularly  es- 
tablished in  every  one  of  the  United  States  for  judg- 
ing of  such  matters,  to  which  courts  any  persons 
injured  may  apply,  and  will  certainly  find  redress. 
Secondly,  in  the  proclamation  of  Congress,  whereby 
strict  orders  are  given  to  all  officers  of  armed  vessels, 
to  pay  a  sacred  regard  to  the  rights  of  neutral  powers, 
and  the  usage  and  customs  of  civilized  nations,  and 
a  declaration  made  that,  if  they  transgress,  they 
shall  not  be  allowed  to  claim  the  protection  of  the 
States,  but  shall  suffer  such  punishment  as,  by  the 
usage  and  custom  of  nations,  may  be  inflicted  on 
them.  Lastly,  in  the  particular  care  taken  by  Con- 
gress to  secure  the  property  of  some  subjects  of  Por- 
tugal (a  power  that  has  not  been  very  favorable  to 
us),  although  no  reclamation  has  been  made. 

All  these  will  show  that  the  States  give  no  coun- 
tenance to  acts  of  piracy ;  and  if  Captain  Conyngham 
has  been  guilty  of  that  crime,  he  will  certainly  be  pun- 
ished for  it  when  duly  prosecuted ;  for  not  only  a  re- 
gard to  justice  in  general,  but  a  strong  disposition  to 


340  The  Works  of  [1778 

cultivate  the  friendship  of  Spain,  for  whose  sovereign 
they  have  the  greatest  respect,  will  induce  the  Con- 
gress to  pay  great  attention  to  every  complaint,  pub- 
lic and  private,  that  shall  come  from  thence.  I  have 
the  honor  to  be,  etc.,  B.  Franklin. 


DCCXIX 

TO    DAVID    HARTLEY 

Passy,  20  October,  1778. 

Dear  Sir: — I  received  your  favor  of  the  9th  in- 
stant with  a  copy  of  the  letter  from  the  Admiralty 
Office,  relative  to  the  proposed  exchange  of  prisoners, 
in  which  the  precise  number  of  those  we  have  here  is 
desired.  I  cannot  at  present  give  it  you,  they  being 
disposed  in  different  parts ;  and  indeed  it  will  always 
be  difficult  to  be  precise  in  it,  the  number  continually 
changing  by  new  prisoners  brought  in  and  some 
escaping.  I  think  the  list  I  formerly  sent  you  was 
near  200  ';  since  which,  60  odd  have  been  brought 
into  France  from  the  North  Seas  by  Capt.  McNeil, 
and  some  by  others  of  our  cruisers,  and  I  just  now 
hear  that  we  have  100  more  in  Spain,  taken  by 
one  of  our  privateers  in  two  New  York  packets, 
one  going  thither,  the  other  returning,  88  of  which 
are  officers  of  your  army.  I  wish  their  lordships 
could  have  seen  it  well  to  exchange  upon  account; 
but  though  they  may  not  think  it  safe  trusting  to  us, 

^  [N.  B.  (by  Hartley.)]  In  July  there  were  about  258,  and  some 
mast  men,  according  to  the  list  then  sent,  which  I  transmitted  to  the 
Admiralty  in  July  last. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  341 

we  shall  make  no  difficulty  in  trusting  to  them.     And 
to  expedite  the  exchange,  and  save  the  time  that 
obtammg  a  correct  list  would  require,  we  make  this 
proposition:  that  if  their  lordships  will  send  us  over 
250  of  our  people,  we  will  deliver  all  we  have  in 
France.     If  the  number  we  have  falls  short  of  the 
250,  the  cartel-ship  may  take  back  as  many  of  those 
she  brings  as  the  deficiency  amounts  to,  delivering  no 
more  than  she  receives.     If  our  number  exceeds  the 
250  we  will  deliver  them  all  nevertheless,  their  lord- 
ships promising  to  send  us  immediately  a  number 
equal  to  the  surplus.     We  would  thus  wish  to  com- 
mence, by  the  first  advance,  that  mutual  confidence 
which  it  would  be  for  the  happiness  of  mankind  that 
nations  should  maintain  honorably  with  each  other, 
though  engaged  in  war.     I  hope  this  will  remove  all 
obstructions  to  a  speedy  completion  of  the  business, 
as  the  winter  approaches  and  the  poor  prisoners  on 
both  sides  may  suffer  in  it  extremely. 


DCCXX 

TO    DAVID    HARTLEY 

Passy,  26  October,  1778. 

My  Dear  Friend:— I  received  yours,  without 
date,  containing  an  old  Scotch  song,  full  of  natural 
sentiment  and  beautiful  simplicity.  I  cannot  make 
an  entire  application  of  it  to  present  circumstances; 
but,  taking  it  in  parts,  and  changing  persons,  some 
of  it  IS  extremely  apropos.     First,  Jennie  may  be 


342  The  Works  of  [1778 

supposed  Old  England;  and  Jamie,  America.  Jen- 
nie laments  the  loss  of  Jamie,  and  recollects  with 
pain  his  love  for  her,  his  industry  in  business  to  pro- 
mote her  wealth  and  welfare,  and  her  own  ingratitude. 

"  Young  Jamie  loved  me  weel, 
And  sought  me  for  his  bride, 
But  saving  ane  crown, 
He  had  naithing  beside. 
To  make  the  crown  a  pound,  my  Jamie  ganged  to  sea, 
And  the  crown  and  the  pound  were  all  for  me." 

Her  grief  for  this  separation  is  expressed  very  pathet- 
ically. 

"  The  ship  was  a  wreck. 
Why  did  na  Jennie  dee; 
O  why  was  I  spared 
To  cry,  Wae  is  me!" 

There  is  no  doubt  that  honest  Jamie  had  still  so  much 
love  for  her  as  to  pity  her  in  his  heart,  though  he 
might,  at  the  same  time,  be  not  a  little  angry  with 
her. 

Towards  the  conclusion,  we  must  change  the  per- 
sons, and  let  Jamie  be  Old  England;  Jennie,  Amer- 
ica. Then  honest  Jennie,  having  made  a  treaty  of 
marriage  with  Gray,  expresses  her  firm  resolution  of 
fidelity,  in  a  manner  that  does  honor  to  her  good- 
sense  and  her  virtue. 

"  I  may  not  think  of  Jamie, 

For  that  would  be  a  sin. 
But  I  maun  do  my  best, 

A  gude  wife  to  be; 
For  auld  Robin  Gray 

Is  very  kind  to  me." 


^778]  Benjamin  Franklin  343 

You  ask  my  sentiments  on  a  truce  for  five  or 
seven  years,  in  which  no  mention  should  be  made  of 
that  stumbling-block  to  England,  the  independence 
of  America. 

I  must  tell  you  fairly  and  frankly,  that  there  can  be 
no  treaty  of  peace  with  us,  in  which  France  is  not 
included.^     But  I  think  a  treaty  might  be  made  be- 
tween the  three  powers,  in  which  England  expressly 
renouncing  the  dependence   of  America   seems  no 
more  necessary  than  her  renouncing  the  title  of  King 
of  France,  which  has  always  been  claimed  for  her 
kings.     Yet,  perhaps,  it  would  be  better  for  England 
to  act  nobly  and  generously  on  the  occasion,  by 
granting  more  than  she  could,  at  present,  be  com- 
pelled to  grant;   make  America  easy  on  the  score  of 
old  claims;  cede  all  that  remains  in  North  America; 
and  thus  conciliate  and  strengthen  a  young  power, 
which  she  wishes  to  have  a  future  and  serviceable 
friend.     I  do  not  think  England  would  be  a  loser  by 
such  a  cession.     She  may  hold  her  remaining  posses- 
sions there,  but  not  without  a  vast  expense ;  and  they 
would  be  the  occasion  of  constant  jealousies,  fre- 
quent   quarrels,    and    renewed   wars.     The    United 

'  Mr.  Hartley  had  written  as  follows:  "I  have  told  you  before  that 
my  heart  is  always  set  upon  peace.  In  the  present  circumstances 
between  the  two  countries,  I  can  only  think  of  the  proposition  to 
mediate.  You  may  as  easily  imagine,  that  the  immediate  and  explicit 
acknowledgment  of  independence  must  be  as  grating  to  this  country, 
as  I  can  that  America  will  not  finally  depart  from  it.  The  answer 
of  the  Congress  to  the  Commissioners  seems  to  imply  this.  What 
think  you  of  suspending  this  point  for  five  or  seven  years,  by  a  truce, 
and  that  nothing  in  the  interim  shall  impeach  their  independence? 
If  such  a  proposition  as  this  would  bring  the  parties  together,  I  think 
there  would  not  be  wanting  a  member  of  Parliament  to  propose  it  to 
the  House." 


344  The  Works  of  [1778 

States,  continually  growing  stronger,  will  have  them 
at  last;  and,  by  the  generous  conduct  above  hinted 
at,  all  the  intermediate  loss  of  blood  and  treasure 
might  be  spared,  and  solid,  lasting  peace  promoted. 
This  seems  to  me  good  counsel,  but  I  know  it  cannot 
be  followed. 

The  friend  you  mention  must  always  be  welcome 
to  me,  with  or  without  the  cheeses ;  but  I  do  not  see 
how  his  coming  hither  could  be  of  any  use  at  present, 
unless  in  the  quality  of  a  plenipotentiary  to  treat  of 
a  sincere  peace  between  all  parties. 

Your  Commissioners  are  acting  very  indiscreetly  in 
America.  They  first  spoke  very  disrespectfully  of 
our  good  ally.  They  have  since  called  in  question 
the  power  of  Congress  to  treat  with  them,  and  have 
endeavored  to  begin  a  dispute  about  the  detention  of 
Burgoyne's  troops,  an  affair  which  I  conceive  not  to 
be  within  their  commission.  They  are  vainly  trying, 
by  publications,  to  excite  the  people  against  the  Con- 
gress. Governor  Johnstone  has  been  attempting  to 
bribe  the  members ;  and,  without  the  least  regard  to 
truth,  has  asserted  three  propositions,  which,  he 
says,  he  will  undertake  to  prove.  The  two  first  of 
them  I  know  to  be  false,  and  I  believe  the  third  to  be 
so.^  The  Congress  have  refused  to  treat  with  the 
Commissioners  while  he  continues  one  of  them,  and 
he  has  therefore  resigned. 

These  gentlemen  do  not  appear  well  qualified  for 
their  business.     I   think  they  will  never  heal  the 


^  Time  has  confirmed  the  correctness  of  FrankUn's  impressions.     All 
three  of  his  propositions  have  proved  false. — Editor. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  345 

breach,  but  they  may  widen  it.     I  am,  my  very  dear 
friend,  yours  most  affectionately, 

B.  Franklin. 


DCCXXI 


TO    MR.    GRAND 


Passy,  3  November,  1778. 

We  owe  our  thanks,  sir,  to  the  person  who  has 
transmitted  to  us,  through  you,  the  complaint  we 
have  received  against  Mr.  Conyngham,  and  we  can 
assure  him  anew  that,  penetrated  with  respect  for 
S.  M.  C,  nothing  pains  us  more  than  complaints  on 
his  part  against  our  people.  He  will  have  seen,  by 
the  papers  transmitted  by  you  at  the  time  from  us  to 
S.  E.  M.  Count  d'Aranda,  the  measures  which  Con- 
gress have  taken  to  prevent  any  misconduct  on  the 
part  of  our  privateers  and  seamen,  and  nothing  better 
proves  its  solicitude  in  this  regard  than  the  procla- 
mation it  has  just  issued,  of  which  the  enclosed  No.  2 
is  a  copy,  and  to  which  we  join  its  resolution  for  the 
protection  of  the  property  of  a  ship  although  belong- 
ing to  a  power  with  which  we  have  no  sympathy. 

But  if  one  directs  his  attention  to  the  atrocious 
proceedings  of  the  English  towards  all  nations  with- 
out distinction,  he  will  not  be  surprised  that  their 
pernicious  example  finds  imitators  among  some  in- 
dividuals of  a  nation  which  they  have  so  greatl}^ 
outraged.  But  this  does  not  excuse  Conyngham. 
It  is  a  crime  in  our  eyes  to  have  displeased  a  power 
for  which  Congress  is  penetrated  with  respect,  and 


346  The  Works  of  [1778 

although  justified  in  seizing,  by  way  of  reprisals, 
the  English  prize  which  Conyngham  had  brought  to 
Teneriffe  to  be  sent  to  Martinique,  we  will  none  the 
less  inform  Congress  of  the  grounds  for  complaint 
which  this  privateer  has  given  to  his  Catholic 
Majesty.  This  will  certainly  be  a  new  motive  for 
paying  to  his  flag  the  homage  and  respect  which  it 
entertains  for  him.  I  hope  from  the  wisdom  as  well 
as  from  the  justice  of  S.  M.  that  he  will  confide  in 
this  expression  of  our  sentiments  towards  him  and  in 
turn  will  permit  us  to  experience  the  effects  of  them. 
I  have  the  honor  to  be,  etc., 

B.  Franklin.^ 


DCCXXII 


TO    DAVID    HARTLEY 


Passy,  29  November,  1778. 

Dear  Sir:— I  have  heard  nothing  from  you  lately 
concerning  the  exchange  of  prisoners.  Is  that  affair 
dropped?  Winter  is  coming  on  apace.  I  under- 
stand that  your  charitable  contribution  is  near 
expended,  and  not  likely  to  be  renewed.  Many  of 
those  unfortunate  people  must  suffer  greatly.  I 
wish  to  have  a  line  from  you  informing  me  what  may 
be  depended  on.     I  am  as  ever, 

B.  Franklin. 

I  Translated  from  a  French  version  transmitted  by  Count  Aranda  to 
Florida  Blanca  and  now  deposited  in  the  Archivo  General  de  Reino, 
in  Simancas. — Editor. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  347 

DCCXXIII 

TO    DR.    PRIESTLEY    (pROBABLY) 

You  desire  to  know  my  opinion  of  what  will  prob- 
ably be  the  end  of  this  war,  and  whether  our  new 
establishments  will  not  be  thereby  reduced  again  to 
deserts.  I  do  not,  for  my  part,  apprehend  much 
danger  of  so  great  an  evil  to  us.  I  think  we  shall  be 
able,  with  a  little  help,  to  defend  ourselves,  our  pos- 
sessions, and  our  liberties  so  long  that  England  will 
be  ruined  by  persisting  in  the  wicked  attempt  to  de- 
stroy them.  I  must  nevertheless  regret  that  ruin, 
and  wish  that  her  injustice  and  tyranny  had  not 
deserved  it.  And  I  sometimes  flatter  myself  that, 
old  as  I  am,  I  may  possibly  live  to  see  my  country 
settled  in  peace  and  prosperity,  when  Britain  shall 
make  no  more  a  formidable  figure  among  the  powers 
of  Europe. 

You  put  me  in  mind  of  an  apology  for  my  conduct, 
which  had  been  expected  from  me  in  answer  to  the 
abuses  thrown  upon  me  before  the  Privy  Council.  It 
was  partly  written,  but  the  affairs  of  public  impor- 
tance I  have  been  ever  since  engaged  in  prevented 
my  finishing  it.  The  injuries  too  that  my  country 
has  suffered  have  absorbed  private  resentments,  and 
made  it  appear  trifling  for  an  individual  to  trouble 
the  world  with  his  particular  justification,  when  all 
his  compatriots  were  stigmatized  by  the  king  and 
Parliament  as  being  in  every  respect  the  worst  of 
mankind.  I  am  obliged  to  you,  however,  for  the 
friendly  part  you  have  always  taken  in  the  defence 


348  The  Works  of  [1778 

of  my  character ;  and  it  is  indeed  no  small  argument 
in  my  favor  that  those  who  have  known  me  most  and 
longest  still  love  me  and  trust  me  with  their  most 
important  interests,  of  which  my  election  into  the 
Congress  by  the  unanimous  voice  of  the  Assembly  or 
Parliament  of  Pennsylvania  the  day  after  my  arrival 
from  England,  and  my  present  mission  hither  by  the 
Congress  itself,  are  instances  incontestable.  .  .  . 
I  thank  you  for  the  account  you  give  me  of  M.  Volt  a 's 
experiment.  You  judge  rightly  in  supposing  that  I 
have  not  much  time  at  present  to  consider  philosoph- 
ical matters;  but  as  far  as  I  understand  it  from 
your  description,  it  is  only  another  form  of  the  Ley- 
den  phial,  and  explicable  by  the  same  principles.  I 
must,  however,  own  myself  puzzled  by  one  part  of 
your  account,  viz.,  "and  thus  the  electric  force  once 
excited  may  be  kept  alive  years  together,"  which  per- 
haps is  only  a  mistake.  I  have  known  it  indeed  to 
be  continued  many  months  in  a  phial  hermetically 
sealed,  and  suppose  it  may  be  so  preserved  for  ages ; 
but  though  one  may,  by  repeatedly  touching  the  knob 
of  a  charged  bottle  with  a  small  insulated  plate,  like 
the  upper  one  of  the  electrophore,  draw  an  incredible 
number  of  sparks  successively — that  is,  one  after 
every  touch,  and  those  for  a  while  not  apparently 
different  in  magnitude,  yet  at  length  they  will  be- 
come small,  and  the  charge  be  finally  exhausted. 
But  I  am  in  the  wrong  to  give  any  opinion  till  I  have 
seen  the  experiment. 

I  like  much  your  pasteboard  machine,  and  I  think 
it  may,  in  some  respects,  be  preferable  to  the  very 
large   glass   ones   constructed   here.     The   Due   de 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  349 

Chaulnes  has  one,  said,  if  I  remember  right,  to  be  five 
feet  in  diameter.  I  saw  it  tried,  but  it  happened  not 
to  be  in  order. 

You  enquire  what  is  become  of  my  son,  the  Gov- 
ernor of  New  Jersey.  As  he  adhered  to  the  party  of 
the  king,  his  people  took  him  prisoner,  and  sent  him 
under  a  guard  into  Connecticut,  where  he  continues ; 
but  is  allowed  a  district  of  some  miles  to  ride  about, 
upon  his  parole  of  honor  not  to  quit  that  country. 
I  have  with  me  here  his  son,  a  youth  of  about  seven- 
teen, whom  I  brought  with  me  partly  to  finish  his 
education,  having  a  great  affection  for  him,  and  partly 
to  have  his  assistance  as  a  secretary,  in  which  capac- 
ity he  is  very  serviceable  to  me.  I  have  also  here 
with  me  my  worthy  nephew,  Mr.  Williams,  whom 
you  ask  after.  The  ingenious  Mr.  Canton,  our  other 
fellow-traveller,  I  suppose  you  know  is  now  no  more. 

As  to  the  present  state  of  our  affairs,  which  you  de- 
sire to  be  informed  of,  the  English  have  long  boasted 
much  in  their  gazettes  of  their  successes  against  us ; 
but  our  latest  advices  are  that  they  have  been  re- 
pulsed in  their  intended  invasion  of  Pennsylvania, 
and  driven  back  through  New  Jersey  to  New  York, 
with  considerable  loss  in  three  engagements,  so  that 
the  campaign  will  probably  end  pretty  much  as  it 
began,  leaving  them  only  in  possession  of  the  islands 
which  their  naval  strength  secures  to  them ;  and  we 
shall  in  the  next  campaign  be  much  better  provided 
with  arms  and  ammunition  for  their  entertainment, 
when  our  force  is  to  consist  of  eighty-four  battalions. 

God  bless  you,  my  dear  friend,  and  believe  me, 
ever  yours  most  affectionately,  B.  Franklin. 


350  The  Works  of  [1778 

DCCXXIV 
B.  franklin's  personal  expense  account  with 

CONGRESS   DURING   HIS   FIRST   TWO   YEARS'   OFFI- 
CIAL   RESIDENCE    IN    PARIS 

NO.    I 

Extract  of  a  Resolution  of  Congress 
In  Congress,  6th  August,  1779. 

Resolved,  That  an  allowance  of  eleven  thousand 
four  hundred  and  twenty-eight  Livres  Toumois  per 
Annum,  be  made  to  the  several  Commissioners  of  the 
United  States  in  Europe  for  their  services,  besides 
their  reasonable  expenses  respectively. 

That  the  Salary,  as  well  as  the  expences,  be  com- 
puted from  the  time  of  their  leaving  their  places  of 
abode  to  enter  on  the  duties  of  their  offices,  and  be 
continued  three  months  after  Notice  of  their  Recal, 
to  enable  them  to  return  to  their  families  respect- 
ively. Extract  from  the  Minutes. 

(Signed)  Char.  Thomson,  Sec'y. 


Account  of  Expences  by  Bn.  Franklin 


I. 


1776. 
Deer.     3.     To  Cash  paid  for  Tea  Stoves  and  Bedding 

laid  in  supposed  about  600  Livres  .  600 

"  Boat  hire  from  Ships  to 

Auray         .  .  .  1.t,()     o     o 

"  Expences  at  Auray         .      14   19     o 

"  Carriage  to  and  Expen- 

ses at  Vannes     .  .      37^2     o 

6.  A  Cabriolet  for  Journey 

to  Paris      .  .  .   600     o     o 

^l,  s  and  c,  stand  for  Livres,  Sols  or  Sous  and  Centimes. 


I778J 
Deer.     6. 


1777- 
Jany.     4. 


Deer. 


Feb. 


27. 
Mar.     14. 

April   23. 
May       I. 

19. 

26. 
June  5. 
May     II. 

July       6. 


3°- 
Augt.     I. 


Benjamin  Franklin 


Expenses     to     and     at 

Nantes        .  .  .    174     5     o 

Sending     Baggage     to 

Paris  .  .  .      78   14     6 

Expenees  to  Paris  and 

at  Versailles        .  .678     9     o 


351 


Paid  Barge  to  Ship  at  St 

Nazarre      .  .  .  /.60     o     o 

Paid    2    Casks   of   Wine 

sent  to  Crew       .  .7200 

Paid     sundry     small 

Charges  &  Comm.        .3186 


Willinroy  for  Wiggs 
Sundry  Expenees  going  to  &  at  Ver- 
sailles this  Month 
Taylors  Bill  .  /.900  4  6 
of  which  for 
W.  T.  F.     .      212  o  o 

leaves  for  me 

For  Table  Linnen,  Sheets  &c.  . 
Sundry  Expenees  in  Family  Furni- 
ture 
Simdry  other  Expenees   . 
Pillet  my  Servant  for  stmdry  dis- 
bursements ..... 
For  50  Bottles  of  Champaigne 
Fruchard  for  Carriage  and  Horses    . 
Pillet  for  Household  Expenees 
Pillet    for   sundry    Household    Ex- 
penees ..... 
Pillet  for  Household  Expenees 
Mdle.     De     Chaumont     for     Table 
Linnen         ..... 
Two   Month's   hire   of  the   Remise 
Carriage       ..... 
Pillet  for  Household  Expenees 
For  the  Carriage  20  Days 
For  Do.  3  Days        .... 
Taylors  Bill.  /.  1,994  o  o 
of  which  for 
W.T.F.      .     1,146  4  6 

leaves  for  me. 

For  writing  Paper 

Pillet  for  Housd.  Expenees 

Pillet  for  Cloathing  himself  6  M'ths 

&  Wages  for  that  time 
For  Cooks  Wages  6  Months      . 
Pillet    and    his    Wifes    Washing    & 

other  expenees 
Cleaning  Appartments  one  Month 
Harness  compleat  for  two  Horses 
Lefark  for  Washing 


1,619  16     6 


[63     8     6 

:oi      5      o 
58    18      o 


688 
1,744 

1-372 
430 

176 
213 
360 
395 

190 
579 


216   12  6 

720     o  o 

389   12  6 

240     o  o 

37      o  o 


847    15 
382     8 


200 
150 


34   17 
15      o 


352 


The  Works  of 


[1778 


Sept. 


Oct.     14. 

17- 
29. 

r.  J778. 
Feb.       5. 


Re^nise  from  ist  Augt.  to  this  Day- 
Bills,  &c 

Upholsterers  Bill 

Servants  for  their  Dinners  in  Paris 

Hatters  Bill 

For  mending  of  Harness 

Fixing  the  Stove  &c. 


360 
36 

43 
37 
34 

7 


Passy,  October  4,  1778. 


Z.12,777     9 


NO.    3 

Account  of  B.  Franklin's  Expences  paid  out  of  Monies  drawn 
from  Banker  by  Franklin  &  Deane  jointly  taken  from 
joint-Expence  Book 


Jan. 


Feb. 


1777. 


^5- 
26. 


Sept.    29. 


Nov. 


Deer. 


1778. 
Jany.     3. 


Paid  Servants'  Expences  to  Passy     . 

Coffee  House  Acct.  of  Postage,  &c 

Paper  of  various  sorts,  Wax,  &c. 

Washing 

Mending  of  Truncks 

Washing 

Do 

Six  Pound  of  Wax  Taper 

Champaignes,  Wages 

Expenses  of  the  Horses  at  Passy  & 

Sadlers  Work         .... 
Hill    the    Tay-  1 

lor,  his  Bill   .  /.504     o  o  V 

of  which  for 

W.  T.  F.        .      367    10  o  J 

leaves, 

St.  Louis  Expences  at  Paris 
Washing  from  25  Augt.  to  14  Nov.    . 
Charles,  Coachman,  his  Expences  to 

Paris 

To  Do.  his  Wages  from  i  Sept.  to  ist 

Deer.  

To  Do.  his  Allowance  for  Wine,  for 

the  same  Time       .... 
Dumonts  Wages   from    10   Augt.  to 

10.  Deer 

To  Do.  his  Allowance  for  Wine 
To  Do.  his  Expences  at  Paris  . 
Renault  for  Halters  &  Bridles  for  B. 

F.  horses 
To  Do.  for  a  Coach  Glass 
Charles  the  Coachman,  his  Wages  & 

Expences  to  nth  Deer. 

St.  Louis  Account  of  Expences  when 
at  Paris 


136  10 
21  14 
67     5 


75 


59  19 


16 


1778] 


Benjamin  Franklin 


353 


Jany.  i6. 
17- 


Feby. 


1 6. 
AprA    13 


Baton    for 
Horses 

Tailors  Bill  . 
of  which  for 
W.  T.  F.        . 


the     Hire     of    Carriage 
1.44.4  o  o 
333  o  o 


Dumonts  Expenses  at  Paris  &  allow- 
ance for  Six  Months  Washing 
St.  Louis  Six  Months  Wages  &  Wash- 
ing          

To  Do.  Expences  when  at  Paris 
Baton  for  Carriage  and  Horses 
St.  Louis  two  months  Wages  &  Sun- 
dry Expences         .  .  .  . 


336 


-leaves  for  me,         1 1 1 


56  6 

148  o 

43  4 

336  o 

153  5 


Passy,  October  4,  1778. 


1.2,128     8 


NO.   4 

Account  of  B.  Franklin's  Expences  paid  out  of  Monies  drawn 
from  Banker  by  Franklin  &  Adams  jointly  taken  from 
Joint  Expence  Book 


April  10. 


May 


June 


July 


Aug. 


12. 

15- 
19. 

5- 

6. 
9- 

22. 
4- 

S- 
13- 


Paid  Baton  for  hire  of  Carriages  &  Horses  2 

Mo.        .         .         .         . 
Dumont's  Wages  from  10.  Deer,  to 

20.  Apl.  &  Stmdry  Expences 
For  Washing 
St.  Louis  Wages  &c.  from  21  Mar.  to 

this  Day 

To  Do.  for  Dinners  when  from  home 
Washing 

Do 

Three  Hats  for  Servants 

Blondin    i    Mo.    Service,    Wine   and 

Washing  .... 
Dumonts  Acct.  of  Dinners  &c.  . 
Mr.  Whischall  for  Books  and  political 

Pamphlets 
Calais's  Dinners  &c. 
5  Volumes  of  Atlas  maritime  (for  pub 

Use)       .  .  .  .  . 

Washing  from  18  May  to  this  Day 
Blacksmith        .... 
Calais's  Dinner  &c. 
Dumont  at  his  Departure  in  full  of 

Wages  &c. 
Washing  .... 


663     o 

174     5 

57      4 

34  12 
41  18 
18  o 
24  16 
33     o 

61  17 
44    13 

75  o 
32      6 

120      o 
60      7 

37  o 
48      o 


Passy,  October  4,  1778. 

VOL.  VII.— 23. 


,720 


354 


The  Works  of 


[1778 


NO.    5 


Account  of  Bn.  Franklin  &  S.  Deane's  joint  Expences,  paid  out 
of  Cash  drawn  jointly  from  the  Banker 


1777- 
Jan.     25. 


Feb. 

3- 

Feb. 

6. 

15- 

23- 

April 
Aug. 

26. 

4- 

14. 

Sept. 

27. 

Oct. 

6. 

14- 

Nov. 

19. 

Dec. 

I. 

1778. 

Jan.     17. 


Feb. 


24. 
Mar.    25. 


April     I. 


From  Expence  Book  at  Hotel  in  Paris. 

Paid  hire  of  a  Remise  from  22  Deer,  to  20 

Jan.        ...... 

Gave  Coachman         .... 

Paid  family  Expences  from  to  do. 

Paid  Wine  Merchants  acct. 

Paid  Acct.  with  Coffee  House 

Paid  Breakfast  Bill  to  21.  Jan. 

Paid  Traiteur,  Bill  from  2 1  Deer,  to  2 1  Jan 

Paid  Le  Fark  for  Family  Expences    . 

Paid  loss  on  Copper  Money 

Paid  Le  Fark  acco't  of  Family  Expences 

Paid  do.  acco't  do. 

Paid  hire  of  a  Remise  i.  month  &  Driver 

Paid  the  Tariteur  Bill 

Paid  Breakfast  Bill 

Paid  Wine  Merchant 

Paid  Le  Fark  for  Family  Expences   . 

Paid  Coffee  House  Bill 

Paid  Copper  Smith  Bill      . 

Paid  Hire  of  Coach  &  Horses  by  Order  on 

Grand  ..... 

Paid    Le    Fark   for   Family    Expences    at 

Passy  from  7.  Aug.  to  7.  Sept. 
Paid  for  20  Cord  of  Wood 
Paid  Le  Fark  on  Acct.  Family  Expences  7 

Sept.  to  7  Oct 

Paid  Miss  Chaumont  for  several  Bills  she 


Pf, 


Paid  Le  Fark  for  Family  Expences  in  part 
Paid  do.  the  whole  do.  from  Oct.  8  to  Nov.  ! 
Paid  for  Champaign            .          .          .          . 
Paid  Blacksmith  Work  done  at  Passy 
Paid  Le  Fark  Family  Expences  from  Nov 
8  to  8  Deer. 

Paid  Mr.  Bonne  for  opening  Gates  for  i 


year 


Paid  Le  Fark  in  part  Family  Expences 
Paid  Upholsters  acct. 
Ps-id  3,  IMGSscnsrcr       ,  .  .  • 

Paid  Miss  Chaiimont  for  Sundry  Bills  she 


Paid  for  Paper  .... 

Paid  Le  Fark  in  part  of  Family  Expences 

Paid  Le  Fark  in  part  of  Family  Expences 

Paid  Dinner  at  Versailles   19  Persons  20 

this  month     ...... 

Paid  Le  Fark  in  part  Family  Expences     . 


408 

0 

0 

36 

0 

0 

324 

14 

0 

240 

0 

0 

45 

12 

0 

«7 

2 

0 

452 

19 

0 

48 

13 

0 

2 

0 

0 

102 

0 

0 

145 

II 

0 

372 

0 

0 

464 

18 

0 

62 

2 

0 

303 

0 

0 

143 

2 

0 

61 

2 

0 

195 

II 

6 

2,448 

0 

0 

1,358 

13 

0 

760 

0 

0 

1,281 

4 

0 

650 

17 

0 

549 

12 

6 

1,470 

10 

b 

144 

0 

0 

164 

0 

0 

48 

0 

240 

0 

82 

0 

I 

16 

709 

16 

2  5 

10 

1,200 

0 

1,200 

0 

222 

0 

960 

0 

1778] 


Benjamin  Franklin 


355 


April     3. 
9- 


Paid  Le  Park  Family  Expences  in  full  to  8 

March  .         .         • 

Paid  a  Messenger  to  Paris 
Paid  Brtinel  for  Joiners  Work 


294 


B.  F.  half 
S.  D.  do. 
Passy   October  4,  1778. 


^•9,569 
9.569 


^•19-139   13     6 


NO.    6 


Account  of  B.  Franklin  &  Adams  joint  Expences  paid  out  of 
Cash  drawn  jointly  from  the  Banker 


1778. 
Apnl   16. 

23- 

25- 

May       I. 


June 


July 


Aug.      8. 


Paid  Mad'm  La  Fark  in  part  of  Family  Ex- 
pences ...... 

Paid  Wood  merchant  .... 

Paid  for  900  Bottles  for  Wine 

Paid  M.  la  Fark  on  acct.  of  Family  Ex- 
pences ...... 

Paid  Dinner  for  Americans  at  Versailles 
when  M.  Adams  was  presented  to  the 
king 

Paid  M.  la  Fark  on  acco't  of  Family  Ex- 
pences ..... 

Paid  for  Sealing  Wax 

Paid  Chaumont  for  Carriage  and  Horses 

Paid  for  Stationary  .... 

Paid  M.  La  Fark  in  part  Family  Expences 

Paid  for  blank  Books  &  maps 

Paid  for  keping  the  Bay  Horse  from  i  mar 
to  10  may       ...... 

Paid  Sundry  Postages 

Paid  Dennis  the  Frotteur,  Wages  f'm  26 
Nov.,  1777  to  26  may  78 

Paid  M.  La  Fark  in  part  Family  Expences 

Paid  M.  La  Fark  in  full  of  Family  Expences 
f'm  8  mar.  to  8  this  month 

Paid  Stationary 

Paid  hire  of  Servants  Bed  &c. 

Paid  Montaigne  in  advance  for  Family 
Expences        ...... 

Paid  do.  in  full  of  Family  Expences  f'm  8 
June  to  ist  Jvily  .... 

Paid  do.  for  Postage  8  Jtme  to  ist  July 

Paid  do.  Familv  Expences  from 

ist  July  to  ist  Aug.       .  .    /.2,346     5 

Deduct  Expences  for  anniver- 
sary 4  July  ch'd  to  Congress  .  600     7 

Paid  do.  Postage  &c.  i  Jiily  to  i  Aug. 
Paid  Boisin  for  29.  Cord  of  Wood 


B.  F.  half 
J.  A.  do. 


^•.S.370 

5.370 


220 
440 
243 

360 


480 

0 

0 

6 

0 

0 

336 

0 

0 

13 

0 

0 

1,200 

0 

0 

16 

10 

0 

105 

0 

0 

32 

0 

0 

159 

6 

0 

360 

0 

0 

2,246 

15 

0 

57 

16 

0 

78 

0 

0 

288 

0 

0 

737 

8 

0 

283 

II 

0 

1. 745 

18 

0 

127 

14 

0 

1,161 

4 

0 

/.io,74i      2 


356  The  Works  of  [1778 


NO.    7 

Account  of  Cash  paid  out  of  private  Purse  on  public  Account 
and  for  other  Persons  who  are  to  acco't  with  the  Public  by 
B.  Franklin 

1776.  i-     ^-    <:■ 

Dec.       7.     Paid  M.  Wilt  an  Express  to  Paris  to  an- 
nounce my  arrival  ....  600     o     o 

1777. 
Jan.     12.     Paid  to  M.  Williams  on  public  Account  for 
which  he  has  given  the  public  Credit. 
(See  his  Acct.  Currt.),  .  .  .  480     o     o 

Feb.      8.     Paid  Potter  an  American  Prisoner  escaped 

from  Eng'd  .  .  .  .  .  120     o     o 

II.     Paid  for  Affairs  d'Angleterre      .  .  .  36     o     o 

II.     Paid  to  Coin  Lutterloh  a  german  officer      .  480     o     o 

Mar.     31.      Paid  to  M.   Hood  of  Phila.   to  help  him 

home      .  .  .  .  .  -  .  720     o     o 

April   29.     Paid  Major  Klein  going  into  the  American 

Service  ......  240     o     o 

May       I.     Paid  Pancoucke  for  Books  of  Cavalry  for 

Congress 3^5     o     ° 

8.     Paid  Forrester  for  the  Accoutrement  of 

Troupes 69     o     o 

27.     Paid  Jona.  Williams  on  public  acco't  for 

which  he  has  given  the  public  Credit. 

(See  his  acct.  Currt.)       ....  480     o     o 

June      5.     Paid   James   Shanley,    who  came   with   a 

Message  from  some  Friends  of  America 

in  Ireland 120     o     o 

Paid  M.  Douglas  a  mate  of  a  Vessel  from 
Philadelphia     who     had     been     taken 
Prisoner  ......  48     o     o 

July     30.      Paid  for  a  Courier  to  St.  Malo  and  back  to 

Paris 363     o     o 

Paid  Schimman  a  german  Officer  to  help 
him  on  to  a  Seaport  to  serve  in  Am. 
service  ......  48     o     o 

Aug.    22.     Paid  2  Louis  to  2  Sailors  who  escaped  from 

Prison  48     o     o 

25.      Paid  for  a  Harness  for  S.  Deane           .          .  204     o     o 
Sep.       3.     Paid  Boussi  wine  Merchant  for  S.  Deane    .            493     o     o 
Paid  J.  Williams  on  public  acco't  for  which 
he  has  given  the  public  Credit.      (See  his 
acct.  Currt.)             .          .          •    .      •  .       •            480     o     o 
17.     Paid  for  M.  Dorscey  Surgeon  to  his  Tailor .  192     o     o 
Oct.     14.     Paid  Subscription  for  Affairs  d'Angleterre .  24     o     o 
Dec.     27.     Paid  Bill  drawn  on  me  by  Ebenez.  Smith 
Piatt  a  poor  American  Prisoner  in  New- 
gate                    480     o     o 

1778. 
Jan.     30.     Paid  Count  d'Attems,  who  had  been  taken 

going  to  America  to  serve  in  the  Army     .  84     o     o 

Feb.      6.     Paid  Courtney  Melmoth  a  Political  Writer  932     00 


1778] 


Benjamin  Franklin 


357 


Mar.    26. 
May       I. 


June    23. 


July    21. 


Aug. 


Paid  Major  Persons  and  took  his  Bill  on 
Nesbitt 

Paid  le  Blane  an  officer  who  made  large  De- 
mands on  Comm'r  in  order  to  get  rid  of 
him         ..... 

Paid  more  to  Courtney  Melmoth 

Given  to  a  Stranger  a  Man  of  Letters  who 
asked  Assistance    . 

At  the  Bath  ^  ... 

Capt.  CoUas  5  Louis 

Paid  to  Petter  CoUas,  a  Prisoner 

To  Courier  from  Vers 

Dinner  there  for  M.  Adams  and  self 

Paid  Petter  CoUas      . 

Paid  Joiner        .... 

At  the  Parish  Charity  Sermon 

Paid  to  DaroUes,  Engeneer 

Paid  M.  Mante  Ch'y 

French  lieut.  and  Doctor  who  had  been 
Prisoners        ..... 

An  American  Prisoner  from  Danvers 

Two  French  Sailors  who  had  been  in  our 
service  and  taken  prisoners  but  escaped 
very  naked 

Another 

Yovmg  a  Surgeon  of  Boston 

Another,  a  Surgeon 

De  Baiune 


360 


24 

0 

3 

2 

0 

120 

0 

0 

96 

0 

0 

24 

0 

0 

24 

0 

0 

408 

0 

0 

42 

0 

0 

48 

0 

0 

48 

0 

0 

48 

0 

0 

120 

0 

0 

192 
r 

0 

0 

i 

48 

0 

0 

12 

0 

0 

96 

0 

0 

24 

0 

0 

72 

0 

0 

Passy,  October  4,  1778. 


/.9,273     2     o 


NO.   8 


Acco't  of  Cash  received  By  B.  Franklin  out  of  Monies  drawn 
front  Banker  by  Franklin  &  Deane  extracted  from  Ex- 
pence  Book 

777- 

To  Cash  recv'd  .... 

To    do.       do.    to  pay  W.  T.  F.'s  Tailor 
To    do.       do.  .... 

To    do.       do.  .... 


July 

Sept.  29. 
Oct.  6. 
Deer.  29. 
1778. 
J_any.  27. 
Feb.  2. 
6. 
April     4. 


To  do.       do.     to  pay  Tailor  for  W.  T.  F 

To  do.       do.  .... 

To  do.       do.    88  Louis 

To  do.    to  pay  W.  T.  F.  Fencing  Master 

To  do.    to  pay  M.  Vaughan 


/. 

5. 

c. 

514 

0 

0 

367 

10 

0 

96 

0 

0 

480 

0 

0 

333 

0 

0 

396 

0 

0 

2,082 

0 

0 

117 

0 

0 

480 

0 

0 

/.4,865    10      o 
Note. — There  is  an  Error  in  the  Act.  of  the  C.  Feb.,  '78,  in  Putting  the  88  Louis  as 
2,082  Livres  instead  of  2,1 12  Livres,  which  makes  the  sum  30  Livres  less  than  it  ought 
to  be. 

Passy,  October  4,  1778. 

I  "Error"  is  written  opposite  this  entry  in  red  ink. 


358 


The  Works  of 


[1778 


NO.    9 


AccoH  of  Cash  received  by  B.  Franklin  out  of  Monies  drawn 
from  Banker  By  Franklin  &  Adams  extracted  from  Ex- 
Book 


April   23. 
May      4. 


June 


I.      s. 

c. 

To  Cash  to  pay  B.  F.  Baches's  Schooling 

451    18 

0 

To    do.    rec'vd           .... 

72     0 

0 

To    do.   to  pay  Sadler 

ir    10 

0 

To    do.    rec'd              .... 

288      0 

0 

To    do.    do.                 .... 

1,800      0 

0 

Passy,  October  4,  1778. 


/.2,623     8 


Account  of  Cash  drawn  by  Franklin  &  Deane  out  of  Bankers 
Hands  for  Expences  and  Public  Uses 


1777 
Jan.     2 
Feb. 
Aug.    I 


Sept. 

Nov. 


To  Cash  paid  by  Solier  per  Receipt  .         .        2,400 

Do.  do 4,801 

Do.  paid  by  Grand  per  their  order  to  Chau- 

mont  for  hire  of  Coach  &  Horses  .         2,448 

Do.  p'd  Comm.  Acc't  per  Order  of  S.  Deane        4,000 
Do.  paid  by  Grand  to  W.  T.  Franklin  per 

order      

Do.  paid  by  do.  per  Receipt 


000 
400 


Deer.   29. 

1778. 

Feb.       6.  Do.  paid  by  Grand  per  Receipt  .  .        4,800 

Mar.      25  Do.  paid  by  Do 4,800 


Paid  out  of  the  above  to 
sundry  Persons  per  acco't 
annexed  in  which  what  S. 
Deane  has  received  is  in- 
cluded 

Paid  to  B.  F.  and  already 
credited  in  his  acc't 


/.6,6o6 


4,865   10     o 


/.33, 649   16 


[,471   17     8 


B.  F.  half 
S.  D.  half 

Passy,  October  4,  1778. 


l.ii,o&&   19 
11,088   19 


1.22,177 


1778] 


Benjamin  Franklin 


359 


ANNEXED    TO    NO.     lO 


AccoH  of  Cash  paid  out  of  Franklin's  and  Deane's  Money  on 
public  Account  or  to  persons  who  are  to  account  with  the 
Public 


Jan 


1777. 
21. 
28. 


Feb. 


25- 


Deer.     7. 


27. 


31- 


1778. 
Jan.     17. 


Mar.     25. 
April     6. 


Paid  Silas  Deane  for  an  Express  to  Nantes 

To  Capt.  Nicholson 

M.  Deane's  Coflfee  House  Bill    . 

To  M.  Lee  to  pay  for  silk  stockings 

To  M.  Deane 

To  M.  Deane 

M.  Duportal  for  Instruments  pur- 
chased to  carry  to  America  . 

M.  Parker  by  order  of  B.  Franklin  to 
help  M.  Hall  an  American  from 
England         .  .  .  .  . 

To  M.  Israel  Potter  and  Edw'd  Grif- 
fith to  bear  their  Expences  to 
Nantes  being  two  Prisoners  . 

6th  Bark  for  M.  A.  Lee 

For  Silver  Goblet  &  spoon  for  M. 
Leedwell  Lee  .... 

Carriage  of  Muskets 

For  2  Tin  Cases  to  send  the  plan  of 
Boux's  Vessels  to  America    . 

Miss  Chaiomont  for  oats  &  Hay 
for  M.  Deane's  Horses  . 

I.  Dtmierick  who  went  afterwards  by 
the  name  of  Thornton  by  Order  of 
the  Comm'rs  .... 

Paid  Wm.  Carmichael  for  his  Journey 

to  Nantes 

W.  T.  Franklin  by  Order  of  Comm's 
to  discharge  his  Account  of  Ad- 
vances for  them 

a  French  Sailor   who  escaped  from 

Prison  ..... 
M.  Kendall  a  distressed  American 
Major        ..... 
M.  Deane's  Coachman 


/. 

5. 

c. 

s     150 

0 

0 

480 

0 

0 

9 

0 

0 

54 

0 

0 

1,200 

0 

0 

273 

0 

0 

366 


120 

48 


4 

0   0 

536 

14  8 

1,200 

0  0 

618 

0  0 

36 

0 

0 

240 

0 

0 

480 

0 

0 

324 

9 

0 

Passy,  October  4.  1778. 


/.6,6o6 


36o  The  Works  of  [1778 

jy^  The  Hon'ble  the  Congress  of  the  United 

Oct^^  A  1     To  ray  Salary  as  one  of  the  Commis- 

^'  sioners  of  the  United  States  at  the 

Court  of  France  from  Oct.  4,  1776. 
is  2  years  at  11,428  Livres  per  an- 
num, as  per  Resolve  of  Congress  6. 
Augt.,  1779  ....      22,856     6     o 

"  2     To  my  Expenses  paid  out  of  private 

Purse  from  the  Time  of  my  Ap- 
pointment to  this  Day  agreeable  to 
the  Account  hereto  annexed,  N.  2. 
allowed  by  the  above  mentioned 
Resolve  of  Congress       .  .  .       12,777     9     2 

««  ^     To  my  Expences  paid  out  of  Money 

drawn  from  Banquer  By  Franklin 
&  Deane,  as  per  acco't  N.  3.,  Ex- 
tracted from  joint  expence  Book        2,128     8     o 

«  4     To  my  Expences  paid  out  of  money 

drawn  from  Banker  by  Franklin  & 
Adams,  as  per  acco't  annexed  N.  4. 
Extracted  from  joint  expences 
Book  .         .         .         •         •        1.720  12     o 

"  5     To  my  half  of  joint  Expences  with  M. 

Dean  paid  out  of  monies  drawn 
from  Banker  by  F.  &  D.  as  per  ac- 
count annexed  N.  5.  extracted 
from  joint  Expence  Book       .  .        9.569   10     9 

"  6     To  my  half  of  joint  Expences  with  M. 

Adams,  paid  out  of  money  drawn 
from  Banker  by  F.  &  A.  as  per 
acco't  annexed  N.  6,  extracted 
from  joint  Expences  Book      .  5.37°   "     ° 

"  J     To  amount  of  Disbursements  out  of 

private  Purse  on  public  Account 
and  advances  to  persons  who  are  to 
account  to  PubUc  for  the  same,  as 
per  account  hereto  Annexed  N.  7.        9.273     2     o 

/.63,69s   18  II 
Passy,  October  4,  1778. 
Errors  Excepted. 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  361 

States  in  Acco't  with  B.  Franklin.  Cr. 

1776.  /.      5.    C. 
Dec.       7.                By  Cash  received  of  Gruel  at  Nantes, 

and    accotinted    for    with    Solier 
Banker.  (See  f or  this  Solier 'sAcct.)        1,604     8     o 
15.  By  ditto  received  of  do.  .  .         2,400   12     o 

20.  By  ditto  rece'd  of  do.  per  my  order  in 

1777.  fav'r  Hill       .....  900     4     o 
Jan.     20.                By  ditto  recvd.  of  do.  with  Messrs. 

Lee  &  Deane  ^.7,201    16.  which  be- 
ing divided  I  received  .  .         2,994     o     o 
30.                By  ditto  recvd.  of  do.  with  Messrs. 
Dean  &  Lee,  7.2,400   12.  which  be- 
ing divided  I  received             .          .  800     4     o 
Feb.     26.                By  ditto  recvd.  do.  with  M.  Dean,  be- 
ing the  Bala,  of  his  Acco't,  /.  12,858 
8.   of  which  I  received             .          .        6,845     o     ° 
May     27.                By  ditto  recvd.  of  do.        .          .          .            360     o     o 
July       7.                By  ditto  recvd.  of  do.        .          .          .         2,400     o     o 
27.               By  ditto  recvd.  of  do.  per  my  order  in 

fav'r  Hill       .....  293   15     o 

Aug.       7.  By  ditto  recvd.  of  Grand  .  .         4,800     o     o 

1778. 
May.      9.  By  ditto  recvd.  of  do.  per  my  order  in 

fav'r  Hill       .  .  .  .  .         1,918110 

Augt.  27.  By  ditto  recvd.  of  do.        .  .  .  500     o     o 

No. 
Oct.       4.  8     By  ditto  received  at  Sundry  Times 

out    of    the    monies    drawn    from 
Banker   by     Franklin    &    Deane, 
agreeable  to  acct.  annexed,  N.  8. 
(Error  of  30  Livs.  less  in  this  acct).        4,865   10     o 
"  9     By  ditto  recvd.    at   Sundry  Times 

from  Monies  drawn  from  Banker 
By  Franklin  &  Adams,  as  per  acc't 
annexed,  No.  9      .  .  .  .         2,623     ^     o 

10  By  ditto  received  from  Banker 
jointly  with  M.  Deane,  which  is 
equally  divided  after  first  deduct- 
ing the  Payments  which  have  been 
made  out  of  said  Monies  for  Public 
acco't,  or  to  Persons  who  are  to 
acco't  to  the  Public  agreable  to 
the  accoimts  annexed  No.  10,  B.  F. 
proportion  is  ....      n,o88     9     4 

**  II     By  ditto  recvd.  from  Banker  jointly 

with  M.  Adams,  which  is  equally 
divided  after  first  deducting  the 
Payments  which  have  been  made 
out  of  said  monies  for  the  Public, 
or  to  persons  who  are  to  acco't 
with  the  Public  as  per  acct.  an- 
nexed N.  II  .         .         .         .        7,634     2     6 

52,028     4  10 
Balance  due 11,667  i4     i 


/.63,69s  18  n 


362  The  Works  of  [1778 


Accotint  of  Cash  drawn  by  Franklin  &  Adams  out  of  Banker's 
Hands  for  Expences  and  Public  Uses 

I.  s.  c. 

To   Cash   paid   per   Receipt   by    Grand            4,800  o  o 

do.  paid  by  do.  per              ....        4,800  o  o 

do.  paid  by  do.  to  Gammon  Wine  merchant 

per  order  F.             .....        2,418  o  o 

do.  paid  by  do.  per  Receipt         .          .         .        4,800  o  o 

do.  paid  by  do.  per  do.        ....        4,800  o  o 


1778. 

April     9. 
May       9. 
May     26. 

Jtrne 
Aug. 

16. 

7- 

21,618     o 


Paid  out  of    the  above 
to  sundry  Persons  per 
acco't   annexed   in 
which    what    Adams 
has    received    is    in- 


eluded 
Paid  to  B.  F. 
credited  in  ] 

B.  F.  half 
J.  A.  half 
October  4,  1778. 

&  already 
bis  acco't  . 

.         .    l.^ 

■      7 

^■3.726 
2,623 

8 
8 

0 

0 

6,349 

16 

,634     2 
,634     2 

0 
0 

Passy, 

I. 

15,268 

4 

0 

ANNEXED    TO    NO.    II 

Acco't  of  Cash  paid  out  of  Franklin  &  Adams  Money  on  pub- 
lic Account  or  to  Persons  who  are  to  account  with  the  Public 

1778.  I.      s.  c. 

April     9.     Paid  Jno.  Farland  to  bear  his  Expences  to 

Bord'n  .  .  .  .  .  120     o     o 

James  Bamett   Do.     .         .     /.120 
Do.  Tailors  Bill        126 


10.  Bringing  M.  Adams  Things  from  Paris 

Wheelwright  Work  done  for  M.Deane 
22.  M.  Adams  for  Buckles  54  &  Cash  480 

24.  to  John   Chandler  to  bear  his   Ex- 

pences to  Bord'n 
May       1.  For  hire  of  Horses  for  M.  Deane 

Hill  Tailor  for  Do.  ... 

4.  To  John  Adams         .... 

7.  Blondin  for  M.  Deane's  Acc't  the  Bal. 

due  for  Service      .... 

Blondin 's  Brother  for  Do.  likewise  a 

servant  ..... 

M.  Deane's  Sadler 

M.  Holker's  Acco't  of  Carriage  of  G. 

Montymont  .  .  .         .  184   11 


246 

0 

168 

12 
0 

534 

0 

180 

0 

120 

0 

278 
480 

0 
0 

414 

I 

244 
6 

16 
0 

1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  363 


June    15. 

A  Poor  German  Sailor 

6 

0 

0 

Subscription  for  Courier  de  1'  Europe 
La  veuve  Soubrillard  Traiteur  for  M. 

48 

0 

0 

J^y   13- 

Deane 

12 

II 

0 

Blacksmith  for  Acc't         Do. 

80 

10 

0 

Aug.      8. 

Expence  of  Aniversary  of  4.  July- 

600 

7 

0 

/.3,726 

8 

0 

Passy, 

October  4,  1778. 

DCCXXV 

THE  ephemera:  AN  EMBLEM  OF  HUMAN  LIFE 

TO    MADAME    BRILLON,    OF    PASSY 

You  may  remember,  my  dear  friend,  that  when 
we  lately  spent  that  happy  day  in  the  delightfiil 
garden  and  sweet  society  of  the  Moulin  Joly,  I  stop- 
ped a  little  in  one  of  our  walks,  and  stayed  some  time 
behind  the  company.  We  had  been  shown  number- 
less skeletons  of  a  kind  of  little  fly,  called  an  ephem- 
era, whose  successive  generations,  we  were  told,  were 
bred  and  expired  within  the  day.  I  happened  to  see 
a  living  company  of  them  on  a  leaf,  who  appeared 
to  be  engaged  in  conversation.  You  know  I  under- 
stand all  the  inferior  animal  tongues.  My  too  great 
application  to  the  study  of  them  is  the  best  excuse 
I  can  give  for  the  little  progress  I  have  made  in  your 
charming  language.  I  listened  through  curiosity  to 
the  discourse  of  these  little  creatures ;  but  as  they,  in 
their  national  vivacity,  spoke  three  or  four  together, 
I  could  make  but  little  of  their  conversation.  I 
found,  however,  by  some  broken  expressions  that 
I  heard  now  and  then,  they  were  disputing  warmly 
on  the  merit  of  two  foreign  musicians,  one  a  cousin, 
the  other  a  moscheto;   in  which  dispute  they  spent 


364  The  Works  of  [1778 

their  time,  seemingly  as  regardless  of  the  shortness 
of  life  as  if  they  had  been  sure  of  Hving  a  month. 
Happy  people !  thought  I ;  you  are  certainly  tmder  a 
wise,  just,  and  mild  government,  since  you  have  no 
public  grievances  to  complain  of,  nor  any  subject 
of  contention  but  the  perfections  and  imperfections 
of  foreign  music.  I  turned  my  head  from  them  to 
an  old  gray-headed  one,  who  was  single  on  another 
leaf,  and  talking  to  himself.  Being  amused  with 
his  soliloquy,  I  put  it  down  in  writing,  in  hopes  it 
will  likewise  amuse  her  to  whom  I  am  so  much  in- 
debted for  the  most  pleasing  of  all  amusements, 
her  delicious  company  and  heavenly  harmony. 

*•  It  was,"  said  he,  "  the  opinion  of  learned  philo- 
sophers of  our  race,  who  lived  and  flourished  long 
before  my  time,  that  this  vast  world,  the  Moulin 
Joly,  could  not  itself  subsist  more  than  eighteen 
hours;  and  I  think  there  was  some  foundation  for 
that  opinion,  since,  by  the  apparent  motion  of  the 
great  luminary  that  gives  life  to  all  nature,  and 
which  in  my  time  has  evidently  declined  consider- 
ably towards  the  ocean  at  the  end  of  our  earth,  it 
must  then  finish  its  course,  be  extinguished  in  the 
waters  that  surround  us,  and  leave  the  world  in  cold 
and  darkness,  necessarily  producing  universal  death 
and  destruction.  I  have  Hved  seven  of  those  hours, 
a  great  age,  being  no  less  than  four  hundred  and 
twenty  minutes  of  time.  How  very  few  of  us  con- 
tinue so  long!  I  have  seen  generations  bom,  flour- 
ish, and  expire.  My  present  friends  are  the  children 
and  grandchildren  of  the  friends  of  my  youth,  who 
are  now,  alas,  no  more!     And  I  must  soon  follow 


1778]  Benjamin  Franklin  3^5 

them;  for,  by  the  course  of  nature,  though  still  in 
health,  I  cannot  expect  to  live  above  seven  or  eight 
minutes  longer.  What  now  avails  all  my  toil  and 
labor  in  amassing  honey-dew  on  this  leaf,  which  I 
cannot  Uve  to  enjoy!  What  the  political  struggles 
I  have  been  engaged  in  for  the  good  of  my  com- 
patriot inhabitants  of  this  bush,  or  my  philosophical 
studies  for  the  benefit  of  our  race  in  general!  for  in 
politics  what  can  laws  do  without  morals?  Our 
present  race  of  ephemerae  will  in  a  course  of  minutes 
become  corrupt,  like  those  of  other  and  older  bushes, 
and  consequently  as  wretched.  And  in  philosophy 
how  small  our  progress !  Alas !  art  is  long,  and  life 
is  short!  My  friends  would  comfort  me  with  the 
idea  of  a  name  they  say  I  shall  leave  behind  me; 
and  they  tell  me  I  have  lived  long  enough  to  nature 
and  to  glory.  But  what  will  fame  be  to  an  ephemera 
who  no  longer  exists?  And  what  will  become  of  all 
history  in  the  eighteenth  hour,  when  the  world  it- 
self, even  the  whole  Moulin  Joly,  shall  come  to  its 
end  and  be  buried  in  universal  ruin  ? ' ' 

To  me,  after  all  my  eager  pursuits,  no  solid  pleas- 
ures now  remain,  but  the  reflection  of  a  long  life 
spent  in  meaning  well,  the  sensible  conversation  of 
a  few  good  lady  ephemerae,  and  now  and  then  a  kind 
smile  and  a  tune  from  the  ever  amiable  Brillante.'^ 

B.  Franklin. 

I  The  substance  of  these  reflections  of  the  venerable  Ephemera 
appeared  in  The  Pennsylvania  Gazette,  of  which  Franklin  was  then 
editor  and  publisher,  December  4,  1735,  in  an  essay  "On  Human 
Vanity."  In  its  original  form  the  article  purports  to  be  a  communica- 
tion from  some  other  person.  In  the  above  letter  to  "the  ever  ami- 
able Brillante,"  it  was  doubtless  re- written  from  memory,  and  was 
much  improved  both  as  to  diction  and  sentiment. 


366  The  Works  of  [1779 

DCCXXVI 

THE    WHISTLE 

TO    MADAME    BRILLON 

1779. 

I  received  my  dear  friend's  two  letters,  one  for 
Wednesday  and  one  for  Saturday.  This  is  again 
Wednesday.  I  do  not  deserve  one  for  to-day,  be- 
cause I  have  not  answered  the  former.  But,  indolent 
as  I  am,  and  averse  to  writing,  the  fear  of  having  no 
more  of  your  pleasing  epistles,  if  I  do  not  contribute 
to  the  correspondence,  obliges  me  to  take  up  my  pen ; 
and  as  Mr.  B.  has  kindly  sent  me  word  that  he  sets 
out  to-morrow  to  see  you,  instead  of  spending  this 
Wednesday  evening,  as  I  have  done  its  namesakes,  in 
your  delightful  company,  I  sit  down  to  spend  it  in 
thinking  of  you,  in  writing  to  you,  and  in  reading 
over  and  over  again  your  letters. 

I  am  charmed  with  your  description  of  Paradise, 
and  with  your  plan  of  living  there;  and  I  approve 
much  of  your  conclusion,  that,  in  the  meantime,  we 
should  draw  all  the  good  we  can  from  this  world. 
In  my  opinion  we  might  all  draw  more  good  from  it 
than  we  do,  and  suffer  less  evil,  if  we  would  take  care 
not  to  give  too  much  for  whistles.  For  to  me  it 
seems  that  most  of  the  unhappy  people  we  meet  with 
are  become  so  by  neglect  of  that  caution. 

You  ask  what  I  mean  ?  You  love  stories,  and  will 
excuse  my  telling  one  of  myself. 

When  I  was  a  child  of  seven  years  old,  my  friends, 
on  a  holiday,  filled  my  pocket  with  coppers.  I  went 
directly  to  a  shop  where  they  sold  toys  for  children ; 
and  being  charmed  with  the  sound  of  a  whistle,  that 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  367 

I  met  by  the  way  in  the  hands  of  another  boy,  I 
voluntarily  offered  and  gave  all  my  money  for  one. 
I  then  came  home,  and  went  whistling  all  over  the 
house,  much  pleased  with  my  whistle,  but  disturbing 
all  the  family.  My  brothers,  and  sisters,  and  cousins, 
understanding  the  bargain  I  had  made,  told  me  I  had 
given  four  times  as  much  for  it  as  it  was  worth ;  put 
me  in  mind  what  good  things  I  might  have  bought 
with  the  rest  of  the  money;  and  laughed  at  me  so 
much  for  my  folly,  that  I  cried  with  vexation ;  and 
the  reflection  gave  me  more  chagrin  than  the  whistle 
gave  me  pleasure. 

This,  however,  was  afterwards  of  use  to  me,  the  im- 
pression continuing  on  my  mind ;  so  that  often,  when 
I  was  tempted  to  buy  some  unnecessary  thing,  I  said 
to  myself.  Don't  give  too  much  for  the  whistle;  and  I 
saved  my  money. 

As  I  grew  up,  came  into  the  world,  and  observed 
the  actions  of  men,  I  thought  I  met  with  many,  very 
many,  who  gave  too  much  for  the  whistle. 

When  I  saw  one  too  ambitious  of  court  favor, 
sacrificing  his  time  in  attendance  on  levees,  his  re- 
pose, his  liberty,  his  virtue,  and  perhaps  his  friends, 
to  attain  it,  I  have  said  to  myself.  This  man  gives 
too  much  for  his  whistle. 

When  I  saw  another  fond  of  popularity,  constantly 
employing  himself  in  political  bustles,  neglecting  his 
own  affairs,  and  ruining  them  by  that  neglect,  He 
pays,  indeed,  said  I,  too  much  for  his  whistle. 

If  I  knew  a  miser,  who  gave  up  every  kind  of  com- 
fortable living,  all  the  pleasure  of  doing  good  to  others, 
all  the  esteem  of  his  fellow-citizens,  and  the  joys  of 


368  The  Works  of  [1779 

benevolent  friendship,  for  the  sake  of  accumulating 
wealth,  Poor  man,  said  I,  you  pay  too  much  for  your 
whistle. 

When  I  met  with  a  man  of  pleasure,  sacrificing 
every  laudable  improvement  of  the  mind,  or  of  his 
fortune,  to  mere  corporeal  sensations,  and  ruining  his 
health  in  their  pursuit.  Mistaken  man,  said  I,  you  are 
providing  pain  for  yourself,  instead  of  pleasure;  you 
give  too  much  for  your  whistle. 

If  I  see  one  fond  of  appearance,  or  fine  clothes,  fine 
houses,  fine  furniture,  fine  equipages,  all  above  his 
fortune,  for  which  he  contracts  debts,  and  ends  his 
career  in  a  prison,  Alas!  say  I,  he  has  paid  dear,  very 
dear,  for  his  whistle. 

When  I  see  a  beautiful,  sweet-tempered  girl  mar- 
ried to  an  ill-natured  brute  of  a  husband.  What  a  pity, 
say  I,  that  she  should  pay  so  much  for  a  whistle! 

In  short,  I  conceive  that  great  part  of  the  miseries 
of  mankind  are  brought  upon  them  by  the  false  esti- 
mates they  have  made  of  the  value  of  things,  and  by 
their  giving  too  much  for  their  whistles. 

Yet  I  ought  to  have  charity  for  these  unhappy 
people,  when  I  consider  that,  with  all  this  wisdom  of 
which  I  am  boasting,  there  are  certain  things  in  the 
world  so  tempting,  for  example,  the  apples  of  King 
John,  which  happily  are  not  to  be  bought ;  for  if  they 
were  put  to  sale  by  auction,  I  might  very  easily  be 
led  to  ruin  myself  in  the  purchase,  and  find  that  I 
had  once  more  given  too  much  for  the  whistle. 

Adieu,  my  dear  friend,  and  believe  me  ever  yours 
very  sincerely  and  with  unalterable  affection, 

B.  Franklin. 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  369 

DCCXXVII 

A    PETITION    OF    THE    LEFT    HAND 

TO  THOSE  WHO  HAVE  THE  SUPERINTENDENCY  OP  EDUCATION 

I  address  myself  to  all  the  friends  of  youth,  and 
conjure  them  to  direct  their  compassionate  regards  to 
my  unhappy  fate,  in  order  to  remove  the  prejudices 
of  which  I  am  the  victim.  There  are  twin  sisters  of 
us;  and  the  two  eyes  of  man  do  not  more  resemble, 
nor  are  capable  of  being  upon  better  terms  with,  each 
other,  than  my  sister  and  myself,  were  it  not  for  the 
partiality  of  our  parents,  who  make  the  most  injurious 
distinctions  between  us.  From  my  infancy,  I  have 
been  led  to  consider  my  sister  as  a  being  of  a  more 
elevated  rank.  I  was  suffered  to  grow  up  without  the 
least  instruction,  while  nothing  was  spared  in  her 
education.  She  had  masters  to  teach  her  writing, 
drawing,  music,  and  other  accomplishments;  but  if 
by  chance  I  touched  a  pencil,  a  pen,  or  a  needle,  I  was 
bitterly  rebuked;  and  more  than  once  I  have  been 
beaten  for  being  awkward,  and  wanting  a  graceful 
manner.  It  is  true,  my  sister  associated  me  with  her 
upon  some  occasions;  but  she  always  made  a  point 
of  taking  the  lead,  calling  upon  me  only  from  neces- 
sity, or  to  figure  by  her  side. 

But  conceive  not,  sirs,  that  my  complaints  are  in- 
stigated merely  by  vanity.  No;  my  uneasiness  is 
occasioned  by  an  object  much  more  serious.  It  is 
the  practice  in  our  family  that  the  whole  business  of 
providing  for  its  subsistence  falls  upon  my  sister  and 
myself.  If  any  indisposition  should  attack  my  sister, 
— and  I  mention  it  in  confidence  upon  this  occasion, 

VOL.  VII. — 24. 


370 


The  Works  of  [1779 


that  she  is  subject  to  the  gout,  the  rheumatism,  and 
cramp,  without  making  mention  of  other  accidents, — 
what  would  be  the  fate  of  our  poor  family?  Must 
not  the  regret  of  our  parents  be  excessive,  at  having 
placed  so  great  a  difference  between  sisters  who  are 
so  perfectly  equal  ?  Alas !  we  must  perish  from  dis- 
tress ;  for  it  would  not  be  in  my  power  even  to  scrawl 
a  suppliant  petition  for  relief,  having  been  obliged  to 
employ  the  hand  of  another  in  transcribing  the  re- 
quest which  I  have  now  the  honor  to  prefer  to  you. 

Condescend,  sirs,  to  make  my  parents  sensible  of 
the  injustice  of  an  exclusive  tenderness,  and  of  the 
necessity  of  distributing  their  care  and  affection 
among  all  their  children  equally.  I  am,  with  a  pro- 
foimd  respect,  sirs,  your  obedient  servant, 

The  Left  Hand. 


DCCXXVIII 

SKETCH    OF    AN    ENGLISH    SCHOOL 

FOR  THE  CONSIDERATION  OF  THE  TRUSTEES  OF  THE  PHILADELPHIA 
ACADEMY 

It  is  expected  that  every  scholar  to  be  admitted 
into  this  school  be  at  least  able  to  pronounce  and 
divide  the  syllables  in  reading,  and  to  write  a  legible 
hand.     None  to  be  received  that  are  under years 

of  age. 

First  or  Lowest  Class 

Let  the  first  class  learn  the  English  Grammar  rules, 
and  at  the  same  time  let  particular  care  be  taken  to 
improve  them  in  orthography.  Perhaps  the  latter 
is  best  done  by  pairing  the  scholars;  two  of  those 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  37i 

nearest  equal  in  their  spelling  to  be  put  together. 
Let  these  strive  for  victory;  each  propounding  ten 
words  every  day  to  the  other  to  be  spelled.  He 
that  spells  truly  most  of  the  other's  words  is  victor 
for  that  day;  he  that  is  victor  most  days  in  a  month, 
to  obtain  a  prize,  a  pretty,  neat  book  of  some  kind, 
useful  in  their  future  studies.  This  method  fixes  the 
attention  of  children  extremely  to  the  orthography 
of  words,  and  makes  them  good  spellers  very  early. 
It  is  a  shame  for  a  man  to  be  so  ignorant  of  this  little 
art  in  his  own  language  as  to  be  perpetually  con- 
founding words  of  like  sound  and  different  significa- 
tions ;  the  consciousness  of  which  defect  makes  some 
men,  otherwise  of  good  learning  and  understanding, 
averse  to  writing  even  a  common  letter. 

Let  the  pieces  read  by  the  scholars  in  this  class  be 
short;  such  as  Croxall's  Fables,  and  little  stories. 
In  giving  the  lesson,  let  it  be  read  to  them;  let  the 
meaning  of  the  difficult  words  in  it  be  explained  to 
them;  and  let  them  con  over  by  themselves  before 
they  are  called  to  read  to  the  master  or  usher,  who  is 
to  take  particular  care  that  they  do  not  read  too  fast, 
and  that  they  duly  observe  the  stops  and  pauses.  A 
vocabulary  of  the  most  useful  difficult  words  might 
be  formed  for  their  use,  with  explanations ;  and  they 
might  daily  get  a  few  of  those  words  and  explanations 
by  heart,  which  would  a  little  exercise  their  mem- 
ories ;  or  at  least  they  might  write  a  number  of  them 
in  a  small  book  for  the  purpose,  which  would  help  to 
fix  the  meaning  of  those  words  in  their  minds,  and  at 
the  same  time  furnish  every  one  with  a  little  diction- 
ary for  his  future  use. 


372  The  Works  of  [1779 

The  Second  Class 

To  be  taught  reading  with  attention,  and  with 
proper  modulations  of  the  voice,  according  to  the 
sentiment  and  the  subject. 

Some  short  pieces,  not  exceeding  the  length  of  a 
Spectator,  to  be  given  this  class  for  lessons  (and 
some  of  the  easier  Spectator  would  be  very  suitable 
for  the  purpose).  These  lessons  might  be  given 
every  night  as  tasks,  the  scholars  to  study  them 
against  the  morning.  Let  it  then  be  required  of 
them  to  give  an  account,  first,  of  the  parts  of  speech, 
and  construction  of  one  or  two  sentences.  This  will 
oblige  them  to  recur  frequently  to  their  grammar, 
and  fix  its  principle  rules  in  their  memory.  Next,  of 
the  intention  of  the  writer,  or  the  scope  of  the  piece, 
the  meaning  of  each  sentence  and  of  every  uncom- 
mon word .  This  would  early  acquaint  them  with  the 
meaning  and  force  of  words,  and  give  them  that 
most  necessary  habit  of  reading  with  attention. 

The  master  then  to  read  the  piece  with  the  proper 
modulations  of  voice,  due  emphasis,  and  suitable  ac- 
tion, where  action  is  required ;  and  put  the  youth  on 
imitating  his  manner. 

Where  the  author  has  used  an  expression  not  the 
best,  let  it  be  pointed  out,  and  let  his  beauties  be 
particularly  remarked  to  the  youth. 

Let  the  lessons  for  reading  be  varied,  that  the 
youth  may  be  made  acquainted  with  good  styles  of 
all  kinds,  in  prose  and  verse,  and  the  proper  manner 
of  reading  each  kind;  sometimes  a  well-told  story, 
a  piece  of  a  sermon,  a  general's  speech  to  his  soldiers, 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  373 

a  speech  in  a  tragedy,  some  part  of  a  comedy,  an  ode, 
a  satire,  a  letter,  blank  verse,  Hudibrastic,  heroic, 
etc.  But  let  such  lessons  be  chosen  for  reading  as 
contain  some  useful  instruction,  whereby  the  under- 
standing or  morals  of  the  youth  may  at  the  same 
time  be  improved. 

It  is  required  that  they  should  first  study  and 
understand  the  lessons  before  they  are  put  upon 
reading  them  properly,  to  which  end  each  boy  should 
have  an  English  dictionary  to  help  him  over  diffi- 
culties. When  our  boys  read  English  to  us  we  are 
apt  to  imagine  they  understand  what  they  read,  be- 
cause we  do,  and  because  it  is  their  mother  tongue. 
But  they  often  read  as  parrots  speak,  knowing  little 
or  nothing  of  the  meaning.  And  it  is  impossible 
a  reader  should  give  the  due  modulation  to  his  voice 
and  pronounce  properly,  unless  his  understanding 
goes  before  his  tongue,  and  makes  him  master  of  the 
sentiment.  Accustoming  boys  to  read  aloud  what 
they  do  not  first  understand,  is  the  cause  of  those 
even,  set  tones,  so  common  among  readers,  which, 
when  they  have  once  got  the  habit  of  using,  they 
find  so  difficult  to  correct;  by  which  means,  among 
fifty  readers  we  scarcely  find  a  good  one.  For  want 
of  good  reading,  pieces  published  with  a  view  to  in- 
fluence the  minds  of  men,  for  their  own  or  the  public 
benefit,  lose  half  their  force.  Were  there  but  one 
good  reader  in  a  neighborhood,  a  pubHc  orator  might 
be  heard  throughout  a  nation  with  the  same  advan- 
tages, and  have  the  same  effect  upon  his  audience, 
as  if  they  stood  within  the  reach  of  his  voice. 


374  The  Works  of  [1779 

The  Third  Class 

To  be  taught  speaking  properly  and  gracefully, 
which  is  near  akin  to  good  reading,  and  naturally  fol- 
lows it  in  the  studies  of  youth.  Let  the  scholars  of 
this  class  begin  with  learning  the  elements  of  rhetoric 
from  some  short  system,  so  as  to  be  able  to  give  an 
account  of  the  most  useful  tropes  and  figures.  Let 
all  their  bad  habits  of  speaking,  all  offences  against 
good  grammar,  all  corrupt  or  foreign  accents,  and  all 
improper  phrases,  be  pointed  out  to  them.  Short 
speeches  from  the  Roman,  or  other  history,  or  from 
the  parliamentary  debates,  might  be  got  by  heart, 
and  delivered  with  the  proper  action,  etc.  Speeches 
and  scenes  in  our  best  tragedies  and  comedies  (avoid- 
ing every  thing  that  could  injure  the  morals  of 
youth)  might  Hkewise  be  got  by  rote,  and  the  boys 
exercised  in  dehvering  or  acting  them,  great  care 
being  taken  to  form  their  manner  after  the  truest 
models. 

For  their  further  improvement,  and  a  Httle  to  vary 
their  studies,  let  them  now  begin  to  read  history, 
after  having  got  by  heart  a  short  table  of  the  princi- 
pal epochas  in  chronology.  They  may  begin  with 
Rollin's  Ancient  and  Roman  histories,  and  proceed 
at  proper  hours,  as  they  go  through  the  subsequent 
classes,  with  the  best  histories  of  our  own  nation  and 
colonies.  Let  emulation  be  excited  among  the  boys 
by  giving,  weekly,  little  prizes,  or  other  small  encour- 
agements, to  those  who  are  able  to  give  the  best  ac- 
count of  what  they  have  read,  as  to  time,  places, 
names  of  persons,  etc.     This  will  make  them  read 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  375 

with  attention,  and  imprint  the  history  well  in  their 
memories.  In  remarking  on  the  history,  the  master 
will  have  fine  opportunities  of  instilling  instruction  of 
various  kinds,  and  improving  the  morals  as  well  as 
the  understandings  of  youth. 

The  natural  and  mechanic  history,  contained  in 
the  Spectacle  de  la  Nature,  might  also  be  begun  in 
in  this  class,  and  continued  through  the  subsequent 
classes,  by  other  books  of  the  same  kind;  for,  next 
to  the  knowledge  of  duty,  this  kind  of  knowledge 
is  certainly  the  most  useful,  as  well  as  the  most  en- 
tertaining. The  merchant  may  thereby  be  enabled 
better  to  understand  many  commodities  in  trade; 
the  handicraftsman  to  improve  his  business  by 
new  instruments,  mixtures,  and  materials;  and  fre- 
quently^ hints  are  given  for  new  manufactures,  or 
new  methods  of  improving  land,  that  may  be  set  on 
foot  greatly  to  the  advantage  of  a  country. 

The  Fourth  Class 

To  be  taught  composition.  Writing  one's  own 
language  well  is  the  next  necessary  accomplishment 
after  good  speaking.  It  is  the  writing-master's  busi- 
ness to  take  care  that  the  boys  make  fair  characters, 
and  place  them  straight  and  even  on  the  lines;  but 
to  form  their  style,  and  even  to  take  care  that  the 
stops  and  capitals  are  properly  disposed,  is  the  part 
of  the  English  master.  The  boys  should  be  put  on 
writing  letters  to  each  other  on  any  common  occur- 
rences, and  on  various  subjects,  imaginary  business, 
etc.,  containing  little  stories,  accounts  of  their  late 


376  The  Works  of  [1779 

reading,  what  parts  of  authors  please  them,  and  why ; 
letters  of  congratulation,  of  compliment,  of  request, 
of  thanks,  of  recommendation,  of  admonition,  of 
consolation,  of  expostulation,  excuse,  etc.  In  these 
they  should  be  taught  to  express  themselves  clearly, 
concisely,  and  naturally,  without  affected  words  or 
high-flown  phrases.  All  their  letters  to  pass  through 
the  master's  hand,  who  is  to  point  out  the  faults,  ad- 
vise the  corrections,  and  commend  what  he  finds 
right.  Some  of  the  best  letters  published  in  our 
own  language,  as  Sir  William  Temple's,  those  of 
Pope  and  his  friends,  and  some  others,  might  be  set 
before  the  youth  as  models,  their  beauties  pointed 
out  and  explained  by  the  master,  the  letters  them- 
selves transcribed  by  the  scholar. 

Dr.  Johnson's  Ethices  Elementa,  or  First  Princi- 
ples of  Morality,  may  now  be  read  by  the  scholars, 
and  explained  by  the  master,  to  lay  a  solid  founda- 
tion of  virtue  and  piety  in  their  minds.  And  as  this 
class  continues  the  reading  of  history,  let  them  now, 
at  proper  hours,  receive  some  further  instruction  in 
chronology,  and  in  that  part  of  geography  (from  the 
mathematical  master)  which  is  necessary  to  under- 
stand the  maps  and  globes.  They  should  also  be 
acquainted  with  the  modem  names  of  the  places  they 
find  mentioned  in  ancient  writers.  The  exercises  of 
good  reading,  and  proper  speaking,  still  continued  at 
suitable  times. 

Fifth  Class 

To  improve  the  youth  in  composition,  they  may 
now,  besides  continuing  to  write  letters,  begin  to 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  377 

write  little  essays  in  prose,  and  sometimes  in  verse; 
not  to  make  them  poets,  but  for  this  reason,  that 
nothing  acquaints  a  lad  so  speedily  with  variety  of 
expression  as  the  necessity  of  finding  such  words  and 
phrases  as  will  suit  the  measure,  sound,  and  rhyme 
of  verse,  and  at  the  same  time  well  express  the  senti- 
ment. These  essays  should  all  pass  under  the  mas- 
ter's eye,  who  will  point  out  their  faults,  and  put  the 
writer  on  correcting  them.  Where  the  judgment  is 
not  ripe  enough  for  forming  new  essays,  let  the  sen- 
timents of  a  Spectator  be  given,  and  required  to  be 
clothed  in  the  scholar's  own  words;  or  the  circum- 
stances of  some  good  story,  the  scholar  to  find  ex- 
pression. Let  them  be  put  sometimes  on  abridging 
a  paragraph  of  a  diffuse  author ;  sometimes  on  dilat- 
ing or  amplifying  what  is  written  more  closely.  And 
now  let  Dr.  Johnson's  Noetica,  or  First  Principles 
of  Human  Knowledge,  containing  a  logic,  or  art  of 
reasoning,  etc.,  be  read  by  the  youth,  and  the  diffi- 
culties that  may  occur  to  them  be  explained  by  the 
master.  The  reading  of  history,  and  the  exercises 
of  good  reading  and  just  speaking,  still  continued. 

Sixth  Class 

In  this  class,  besides  continuing  the  studies  of  the 
preceding  in  history,  rhetoric,  logic,  moral  and  nat- 
ural philosophy,  the  best  English  authors  may  be 
read  and  explained;  as  Tillotson,  Milton,  Locke, 
Addison,  Pope,  Swift,  the  higher  papers  in  the  Spec- 
tator and  Guardian,  the  best  translations  of  Homer, 
Virgil,  and  Horace,  of  Telemachus,  Travels  of  Cyrus, 
etc. 


378  The  Works  of  [1779 

Once  a  year  let  there  be  public  exercises  in  the  hall, 
the  trustees  and  citizens  present.  Then  let  fine  gilt 
books  be  given  as  prizes  to  such  boys  as  distinguish 
themselves  and  excel  the  others  in  any  branch  of 
learning,  making  three  degrees  of  comparison ;  giving 
the  best  prize  to  him  that  performs  best,  a  less  valu- 
able one  to  him  that  comes  up  next  to  the  best,  and 
another  to  the  third;  commendations,  encourage- 
ment, and  advice  to  the  rest ;  keeping  up  their  hopes, 
that  by  industry  they  may  excel  another  time.  The 
names  of  those  that  obtain  the  prize  to  be  yearly 
printed  in  a  list. 

The  hours  of  each  day  are  to  be  divided  and  dis- 
posed in  such  a  manner  as  that  some  classes  may  be 
with  the  writing-master,  improving  their  hands; 
others  with  the  mathematical  master,  learning  arith- 
metic, accounts,  geography,  use  of  the  globes,  draw- 
ing, mechanics,  etc.;  while  the  rest  are  in  the 
English  school,  under  the  English  master's  care. 

Thus  instructed,  youth  will  come  out  of  this  school 
fitted  for  learning  any  business,  calling,  or  profession, 
except  such  wherein  languages  are  required;  and 
though  unacquainted  with  any  ancient  or  foreign 
tongue,  they  will  be  masters  of  their  own,  which  is 
of  more  immediate  and  general  use,  and  withal  will 
have  attained  many  other  valuable  accomplishments ; 
the  time  usually  spent  in  acquiring  those  languages, 
often  without  success,  being  here  employed  in  laying 
such  a  foundation  of  knowledge  and  ability  as,  prop- 
erly improved,  may  qualify  them  to  pass  through 
and  execute  the  several  offices  of  civil  life  with  ad- 
vantage and  reputation  to  themselves  and  country. 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  379 

DCCXXIX 

THE  HANDSOME  AND  DEFORMED  LEG 

There  are  two  sorts  of  people  in  the  world,  who, 
with  equal  degrees  of  health  and  wealth,  and  the 
other  comforts  of  life,  become,  the  one  happy,  and 
the  other  miserable.  This  arises  very  much  from 
the  different  views  in  which  they  consider  things, 
persons,  and  events;  and  the  effect  of  those  different 
views  upon  their  own  minds. 

In  whatever  situation  men  can  be  placed,  they 
may  find  conveniences  and  inconveniences ;  in  what- 
ever company,  they  may  find  persons  and  conversa- 
tions more  or  less  pleasing;  at  whatever  table,  they 
may  meet  with  meats  and  drinks  of  better  and  worse 
taste,  dishes  better  and  worse  dressed;  in  whatever 
climate,  they  will  find  good  and  bad  weather;  under 
whatever  government,  they  may  find  good  and  bad 
laws,  and  good  and  bad  administration  of  those  laws; 
in  whatever  poem,  or  work  of  genius,  they  may  see 
faults  and  beauties ;  in  almost  every  face,  and  every 
person,  they  may  discover  fine  features  and  defects, 
good  and  bad  qualities. 

Under  these  circumstances,  the  two  sorts  of  people 
above  mentioned  fix  their  attention :  those  who  are 
disposed  to  be  happy,  on  the  conveniences  of  things, 
the  pleasant  parts  of  conversation,  the  well-dressed 
dishes,  the  goodness  of  the  wines,  the  fine  weather, 
etc.,  and  enjoy  all  with  cheerfulness.  Those  who  are 
to  be  unhappy,  think  and  speak  only  of  the  con- 
traries. Hence  they  are  continually  discontented 
with  themselves,  and,  by  their  remarks,  sour  the 


380  The  Works  of  [1779 

pleasures  of  society,  offend  personally  many  people, 
and  make  themselves  everywhere  disagreeable.  If 
this  turn  of  mind  was  founded  in  nature,  such  un- 
happy persons  would  be  the  more  to  be  pitied.  But 
as  the  disposition  to  criticise  and  to  be  disgusted  is 
perhaps  taken  up  originally  by  imitation,  and  is 
unawares  grown  into  a  habit  which,  though  at  pres- 
ent strong,  may,  nevertheless,  be  cured,  when  those 
who  have  it  are  convinced  of  its  bad  effects  on  their 
felicity,  I  hope  this  little  admonition  may  be  of  ser- 
vice to  them,  and  put  them  on  changing  a  habit 
which,  though  in  the  exercise  it  is  chiefly  an  act  of 
imagination,  yet  has  serious  consequences  in  life,  as 
it  brings  on  real  griefs  and  misfortunes.  For,  as 
many  are  offended  by,  and  nobody  loves,  this  sort 
of  people,  no  one  shows  them  more  than  the  most 
common  civility  and  respect,  and  scarcely  that; 
and  this  frequently  puts  them  out  of  humor,  and 
draws  them  into  disputes  and  contentions.  If  they 
aim  at  obtaining  some  advantage  in  rank  or  fortune, 
nobody  wishes  them  success,  or  will  stir  a  step,  or 
speak  a  word,  to  favor  their  pretensions.  If  they 
incur  public  censure  or  disgrace,  no  one  will  defend 
or  excuse,  and  many  join  to  aggravate,  their  mis- 
conduct and  render  them  completely  odious.  If 
these  people  will  not  change  this  bad  habit,  and  con- 
descend to  be  pleased  with  what  is  pleasing,  without 
fretting  themselves  and  others  about  the  contraries, 
it  is  good  for  others  to  avoid  an  acquaintance  with 
them ;  which  is  always  disagreeable,  and  sometimes 
very  inconvenient,  especially  when  one  finds  one's 
self  entangled  in  their  quarrels. 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  381 

An  old  philosophical  friend  of  mine  was  grown, 
from  experience,  very  cautious  in  this  particular,  and 
carefully  avoided  any  intimacy  with  such  people.  He 
had,  like  other  philosophers,  a  thermometer  to  show 
him  the  heat  of  the  weather,  and  a  barometer  to 
mark  when  it  was  likely  to  prove  good  or  bad ;  but 
there  being  no  instrument  invented  to  discover,  at 
first  sight,  this  unpleasing  disposition  in  a  person,  he 
for  that  purpose  made  use  of  his  legs,  one  of  which 
was  remarkably  handsome,  the  other,  by  some  ac- 
cident, crooked  and  deformed.  If  a  stranger,  at  the 
first  interview,  regarded  his  ugly  leg  more  than  his 
handsome  one,  he  doubted  him.  If  he  spoke  of  it, 
and  took  no  notice  of  the  handsome  leg,  that  was 
sufficient  to  determine  my  philosopher  to  have  no 
further  acquaintance  with  him.  Everybody  has  not 
this  two-legged  instrument;  but  every  one,  with  a 
little  attention,  may  observe  signs  of  that  carping, 
fault-finding  disposition,  and  take  the  same  resolu- 
tion of  avoiding  the  acquaintance  of  those  affected 
with  it.  I  therefore  advise  those  critical,  querulous, 
discontented,  unhappy  people,  that,  if  they  wish  to 
be  respected  and  beloved  by  others,  and  happy  in 
themselves,  they  should  leave  off  looking  at  the  ugly 


DCCXXX 

MORALS    OF    CHESS 


Playing  at  chess  is  the  most  ancient  and  most 
universal  game  known  among  men ;  for  its  original  is 


382  The  Works  of  [1779 

beyond  the  memory  of  history,  and  it  has,  for  num- 
berless ages,  been  the  amusement  of  all  the  civilized 
nations  of  Asia — the  Persians,  the  Indians,  and  the 
Chinese.  Europe  has  had  it  above  a  thousand  years ; 
the  Spaniards  have  spread  it  over  their  part  of  Amer- 
ica ;  and  it  has  lately  begun  to  make  its  appearance 
in  the  United  States.  It  is  so  interesting  in  itself  as 
not  to  need  the  view  of  gain  to  induce  engaging  in  it, 
and  thence  it  is  seldom  played  for  money.  Those, 
therefore,  who  have  leisure  for  such  diversions,  can- 
not find  one  that  is  more  innocent ;  and  the  following 
piece,  written  with  a  view  to  correct  (among  a  few 
young  friends)  some  little  improprieties  in  the  prac- 
tice of  it,  shows  at  the  same  time  that  it  may,  in  its 
effects  on  the  mind,  be  not  merely  innocent,  but  ad- 
vantageous, to  the  vanquished  as  well  as  the  victor. 

The  game  of  chess  is  not  merely  an  idle  amuse- 
ment. Several  very  valuable  qualities  of  the  mind, 
useful  in  the  course  of  human  life,  are  to  be  acquired 
or  strengthened  by  it,  so  as  to  become  habits,  ready 
on  all  occasions.  For  life  is  a  kind  of  chess,  in  which 
we  have  often  points  to  gain,  and  competitors  or  ad- 
versaries to  contend  with,  and  in  which  there  is  a 
vast  variety  of  good  and  evil  events  that  are  in  some 
degree  the  effects  of  prudence  or  the  want  of  it.  By 
playing  at  chess,  then,  we  may  learn: 

I.  Foresight,  which  looks  a  little  into  futurity  and 
considers  the  consequences  that  may  attend  an  ac- 
tion; for  it  is  continually  occurring  to  the  player: 
"If  I  move  this  piece,  what  will  be  the  advantage 
of  my  new  situation?  What  use  can  my  adversary 
make  of  it  to  annoy  me.     What  other  moves  can  I 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  383 

make  to  support  it  and  to  defend  myself  from  his 
attacks?" 

II.  Circumspection,  which  surveys  the  whole  chess- 
board, or  scene  of  action;  the  relations  of  the  several 
pieces  and  situations,  the  dangers  they  are  respec- 
tively exposed  to,  the  several  possibilities  of  their  aid- 
ing each  other,  the  probabilities  that  the  adversary 
may  make  this  or  that  move,  and  attack  this  or  the 
other  piece,  and  what  different  means  can  be  used 
to  avoid  his  stroke,  or  turn  its  consequences  against 
him. 

III.  Caution,  not  to  make  our  moves  too  hastily. 
This  habit  is  best  acquired  by  observing  strictly  the 
laws  of  the  game,  such  as,  "  If  you  touch  a  piece, 
you  must  move  it  somewhere ;  if  you  set  it  down,  you 
must  let  it  stand ' ' ;  and  it  is  therefore  best  that  these 
rules  should  be  observed,  as  the  game  thereby  be- 
comes more  the  image  of  human  life,  and  particularly 
of  war,  in  which,  if  you  have  incautiously  put  your- 
self into  a  bad  and  dangerous  position,  you  cannot 
obtain  your  enemy's  leave  to  withdraw  your  troops 
and  place  them  more  securely,  but  you  must  abide 
all  the  consequences  of  your  rashness. 

And,  lastly,  we  learn  by  chess  the  habit  of  not 
being  discouraged  by  present  appearances  in  the  state 
of  our  affairs,  the  habit  of  hoping  for  a  favorable 
change,  and  that  of  persevering  in  the  search  of  re- 
sources. The  game  is  so  full  of  events,  there  is  such  a 
variety  of  turns  in  it,  the  fortune  of  it  is  so  subject  to 
sudden  vicissitudes,  and  one  so  frequently,  after  long 
contemplation,  discovers  the  means  of  extricating 
one's  self  from  a  supposed  insurmountable  difficulty, 


384  The  Works  of  [1779 

that  one  is  encouraged  to  continue  the  contest  to  the 
last  in  the  hopes  of  victory  by  our  own  skill,  or  at 
least  of  getting  a  stalemate  by  the  negligence  of  our 
adversary.  And  whoever  considers,  what  in  chess 
he  often  sees  instances  of,  that  particular  pieces  of 
success  are  apt  to  produce  presumption  and  its  con- 
sequent inattention,  by  which  the  losses  may  be  re- 
covered, will  learn  not  to  be  too  much  discouraged  by 
the  present  success  of  his  adversary,  nor  to  despair  of 
final  good  fortune  upon  every  little  check  he  receives 
in  the  pursuit  of  it. 

That  we  may  therefore  be  induced  more  frequently 
to  choose  this  beneficial  amusement,  in  preference  to 
others  which  are  not  attended  with  the  same  advan- 
tages, every  circumstance  which  may  increase  the 
pleasures  of  it  should  be  regarded,  and  every  action 
or  word  that  is  unfair,  disrespectful,  or  that  in  any 
way  may  give  uneasiness,  should  be  avoided  as  con- 
trary to  the  immediate  intention  of  both  the  players, 
which  is  to  pass  the  time  agreeably. 

Therefore,  first,  if  it  is  agreed  to  play  according  to 
the  strict  rules,  then  those  rules  are  to  be  exactly  ob- 
served by  both  parties,  and  should  not  be  insisted  on 
for  one  side  while  deviated  from  by  the  other,  for 
this  is  not  equitable. 

Secondly,  if  it  is  agreed  not  to  observe  the  rules 
exactly,  but  one  party  demands  indulgences,  he 
should  then  be  as  willing  to  allow  them  to  the  other. 

Thirdly,  no  false  move  should  ever  be  made  to  ex- 
tricate yourself  out  of  difficulty  or  to  gain  an  advan- 
tage. There  can  be  no  pleasure  in  playing  with  a 
person  once  detected  in  such  unfair  practice. 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  385 

Fourthly,  if  your  adversary  is  long  in  playing,  you 
ought  not  to  hurry  him  or  express  any  uneasiness  at 
his  delay.  You  should  not  sing,  nor  whistle,  nor 
look  at  your  watch,  nor  take  up  a  book  to  read,  nor 
make  a  tapping  with  your  feet  on  the  floor,  or  with 
your  fingers  on  the  table,  nor  do  any  thing  that  may 
disturb  his  attention.  For  all  these  things  displease, 
and  they  do  not  show  your  skill  in  playing,  but  your 
craftiness  or  your  rudeness. 

Fifthly,  you  ought  not  to  endeavor  to  amuse  and 
deceive  your  adversary  by  pretending  to  have  made 
bad  moves,  and  saying  that  you  have  now  lost  the 
game,  in  order  to  make  him  secure  and  careless,  and 
inattentive  to  your  schemes;  for  this  is  fraud  and 
deceit,  not  skill  in  the  game. 

Sixthly,  you  must  not,  when  you  have  gained  a 
victory,  use  any  triumphing  or  insulting  expression, 
nor  show  too  much  pleasure,  but  endeavor  to  con- 
sole your  adversary,  and  make  him  less  dissatisfied 
with  himself  by  every  kind  of  civil  expression  that 
may  be  used  with  truth,  such  as:  "You  understand 
the  game  better  than  I,  but  you  are  a  little  inatten- 
tive"; or,  "You  play  too  fast";  or,  "You  had  the 
best  of  the  game,  but  something  happened  to  divert 
your  thoughts,  and  that  turned  it  in  my  favor." 

Seventhly,  if  you  are  a  spectator  while  others  play, 
observe  the  most  perfect  silence.  For,  if  you  give 
advice,  you  offend  both  parties:  him  against  whom 
you  give  it,  because  it  may  cause  the  loss  of  his  game ; 
him  in  whose  favor  you  give  it,  because,  though  it  be 
good,  and  he  follows  it,  he  loses  the  pleasure  he 
might  have  had  if  you  had  permitted  him  to  think 


386  The  Works  of  [1779 

until  it  had  occurred  to  himself.  Even  after  a  move 
or  moves,  you  must  not,  by  replacing  the  pieces,  show- 
how  they  might  have  been  placed  better;  for  that 
displeases,  and  may  occasion  disputes  and  doubts 
about  their  true  situation.  All  talking  to  the  players 
lessens  or  diverts  their  attention,  and  is  therefore 
unpleasing.  Nor  should  you  give  the  least  hint  to 
either  party  by  any  kind  of  noise  or  motion.  If  you 
do,  you  are  unworthy  to  be  a  spectator.  If  you  have 
a  mind  to  exercise  or  show  your  judgment,  do  it  in 
playing  your  own  game  when  you  have  an  opportu- 
nity, not  in  criticising,  or  meddling  with,  or  counsel- 
ling the  play  of  others. 

Lastly,  if  the  game  is  not  to  be  played  rigorously, 
according  to  the  rules  above  mentioned,  then  moder- 
ate your  desire  of  victory  over  your  adversary,  and  be 
pleased  with  one  over  yourself.  Snatch  not  eagerly 
at  every  advantage  offered  by  his  unskilfulness  or  in- 
attention ;  but  point  out  to  him  kindly,  that  by  such 
a  move  he  places  or  leaves  a  piece  in  danger  and  un- 
supported; that  by  another  he  will  put  his  king  in 
a  perilous  situation,  etc.  By  this  generous  civility 
(so  opposite  to  the  unfairness  above  forbidden) 
you  may,  indeed,  happen  to  lose  the  game  to  your 
opponent;  but  you  will  win  what  is  better,  his  es- 
teem, his  respect,  and  his  affection,  together  with 
the  silent  approbation  and  good-will  of  impartial 
spectators. 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  387 

DCCXXXI 

A    TALE 

An  officer  named  Montr esor,  a  worthy  man,  was 
very  ill.  The  curate  of  his  parish,  thinking  him  like- 
ly to  die,  advised  him  to  make  his  peace  with  God, 
that  he  might  be  received  into  Paradise.  "  I  have 
not  much  uneasiness  on  the  subject,"  said  Montr  esor, 
"for  I  had  a  vision  last  night  which  has  perfectly 
tranquillized  my  mind."  "What  vision  have  you 
had?"  said  the  good  priest.  "I  was,"  replied  Mon- 
tr esor,  "  at  the  gate  of  Paradise,  with  a  crowd  of 
people  who  wished  to  enter,  and  St.  Peter  inquired 
of  every  one  what  religion  he  was  of.  One  answered, 
'I  am  a  Roman  Catholic'  'Well,'  said  St.  Peter, 
'enter,  and  take  your  place  there  among  the  Cath- 
olics.' Another  said  he  was  of  the  Church  of 
England.  'Well,'  said  the  Saint,  'enter,  and  place 
yourself  there  among  the  Anglicans.'  A  third  said 
he  was  a  Quaker.  '  Enter,'  said  St.  Peter,  'and  take 
your  place  among  the  Quakers. '  At  length  my  term 
being  come,  he  asked  me  of  what  religion  I  was. 
'Alas!'  said  I,  'poor  Jacques  Montresor  has  none.' 
'  'T  is  pity,'  said  the  Saint;  'I  know  not  where  to 
place  you;  but  enter  nevertheless,  and  place  yourself 
where  you  can.'  " 


DCCXXXII 

AN    ARABIAN    TALE 


Albumazar,  the  good  magician,  retired  in  his  old 
age  to  the  top  of  the  lofty  mountain  Calabut,  avoided 


388  The  Works  of  [1779 

the  society  of  men,  but  was  visited  nightly  by  genii 
and  spirits  of  the  first  rank,  who  loved  him,  and 
amused  him  with  their  instructive  conversation. 

Belubel,  the  strong,  came  one  evening  to  see  Albu- 
mazar.  His  height  was  seven  leagues,  and  his  wings 
when  spread  might  overshadow  a  kingdom.  He  laid 
himself  gently  down  between  the  long  ridges  of 
Elluem;  the  tops  of  the  trees  in  the  valley  were  his 
couch;  his  head  rested  on  Calabut  as  on  a  pillow, 
and  his  face  shone  on  the  tent  of  Albumazar. 

The  magician  spoke  to  him  with  rapturous  piety  of 
the  wisdom  and  goodness  of  the  Most  High,  but  ex- 
pressed his  wonder  at  the  existence  of  evil  in  the 
world,  which  he  said  he  could  not  account  for  by  all 
the  efforts  of  his  reason. 

"Value  not  thyself,  my  friend,"  said  Belubel,  "on 
that  quality  which  thou  callest  reason.  If  thou 
knewest  its  origin  and  its  weakness,  it  would  rather 
be  matter  of  humiliation." 

"Tell  me  then,"  said  Albumazar,  "what  I  do 
not  know;  inform  my  ignorance,  and  enlighten  my 
understanding. ' ' 

"Contemplate,"  said  Belubel,  "the  scale  of 
beings  from  an  elephant  down  to  an  oyster.  Thou 
seest  a  gradual  diminution  of  faculties  and  powers, 
so  small  in  each  step  that  the  difference  is  scarce 
perceptible.  There  is  no  gap,  but  the  gradation 
is  complete.  Men  in  general  do  not  know,  but 
thou  knowest,  that  in  ascending  from  an  elephant  to 
the  infinitely  Great,  Good,  and  Wise,  there  is  also  a 
long  gradation  of  beings,  who  possess  powers  and 
faculties  of  which  thou  canst  yet  have  no  conception. " 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  389 

DCCXXXIII 

AURORA    BOREALIS  ^ 

1.  Air  heated  by  any  means  becomes  rarefied  and 
specifically  lighter  than  other  air  in  the  same  situation 
not  heated. 

2.  Air  being  thus  made  lighter  rises,  and  the  neigh- 
boring cooler,  heavier  air  takes  its  place. 

3.  If  in  the  middle  of  a  room  you  heat  the  air  by 
a  stove,  or  pot  of  burning  coals  near  the  floor,  the 
heated  air  will  rise  to  the  ceiling,  spread  there  over 
the  cooler  air  till  it  comes  to  the  cold  walls;  there 
being  condensed  and  made  heavier,  it  descends  to 
supply  the  place  of  that  cool  air  which  had  moved 
towards  the  stove  or  fire,  in  order  to  supply  the  place 
of  the  heated  air  which  had  ascended  from  the  space 
around  the  stove  or  fire. 

4.  Thus  there  will  be  a  continual  circulation  of  air 
in  the  room,  which  may  be  rendered  visible  by  mak- 
ing a  little  smoke;  for  that  smoke  will  rise  and  cir- 
culate with  the  air. 

5.  A  similar  operation  is  performed  by  nature  on 
the  air  of  the  globe.     Our  atmosphere  is  of  a  certain 

height,  perhaps  at  a  medium miles.    Above  that 

height  it  is  so  rare  as  to  be  almost  a  vacuum.  The 
air  heated  between  the  tropics  is  continually  rising, 
and  its  place  is  suppHed  by  northerly  and  southerly 
winds  which  come  from  those  cool  regions. 

1  First  published  in  Mr.  Vaughan's  edition  of  the  author's  writings. 
Mr.  Vaughan  says:  "If  I  mistake  not,  the  paper  was  read  at  the 
Royal  Academy  of  Sciences  at  Paris,  at  the  meeting  held  immediately 
after  Easter,  1779." — Editor. 


390  The  Works  of  [1779 

6.  The  hght,  heated  air,  floating  above  the  cooler 
and  denser,  must  spread  northward  and  southward, 
and  descend  near  the  two  poles,  to  supply  the  place 
of  the  cooler  air  which  had  moved  towards  the 
equator. 

7.  Thus  a  circulation  of  air  is  kept  up  in  our  at- 
mosphere as  in  the  room  above  mentioned. 

8.  That  heavier  and  lighter  air  may  move  in  cur- 
rents of  different  and  even  opposite  directions,  ap- 
pears sometimes  by  the  clouds  that  happen  to  be  in 
these  currents,  as  plainly  as  by  the  smoke  in  the  ex- 
periment above  mentioned.  Also  in  opening  a  door 
between  two  chambers,  one  of  which  has  been 
warmed,  by  holding  a  candle  near  the  top,  near  the 
bottom,  and  near  the  middle,  you  will  find  a  strong 
current  of  warm  air  passing  out  of  the  warmed  room 
above,  and  another  of  cool  air  entering  it  below,  while 
in  the  middle  there  is  little  or  no  motion. 

9.  The  great  quantity  of  vapor  rising  between  the 
tropics  forms  clouds,  which  contain  much  electricity. 

Some  of  them  fall  in  rain,  before  they  come  to  the 
polar  regions. 

10.  If  the  rain  be  received  in  an  isolated  vessel, 
the  vessel  will  be  electrified;  for  every  drop  brings 
down  some  electricity  with  it. 

11.  The  same  is  done  by  snow  and  hail. 

12.  The  electricity  so  descending  in  temperate 
climates  is  received  and  imbibed  by  the  earth. 

13.  If  the  clouds  are  not  sufficiently  discharged  by 
this  means,  they  sometimes  discharge  themselves 
suddenly  by  striking  into  the  earth,  where  the  earth 
is  fit  to  receive  their  electricity. 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  391 

14.  The  earth  in  temperate  and  warm  cHmates  is 
generally  fit  to  receive  it,  being  a  good  conductor. 

15.  A  certain  quantity  of  heat  will  make  some  bodies 
good  conductors  that  will  not  otherwise  conduct. 

16.  Thus  wax  rendered  fluid,  and  glass  softened 
by  heat,  will  both  of  them  conduct. 

17.  And  water,  though  naturally  a  good  conductor, 
will  not  conduct  well  when  frozen  into  ice  by  a  com- 
mon degree  of  cold;  not  at  all  where  the  cold  is 
extreme. 

18.  Snow  falling  upon  frozen  ground  has  been 
found  to  retain  its  electricity;  and  to  communicate 
it  to  an  isolated  body,  when  after  falling  it  has  been 
driven  about  by  the  wind. 

19.  The  humidity,  contained  in  all  the  equatorial 
clouds  that  reach  the  polar  regions  must  there  be 
condensed  and  fall  in  snow. 

20.  The  great  cake  of  ice  that  eternally  covers 
those  regions  may  be  too  hard  frozen  to  permit  the 
electricity,  descending  with  that  snow,  to  enter  the 
earth. 

21.  It  will  therefore  be  accumulated  upon  that  ice. 

22.  The  atmosphere,  being  heavier  in  the  polar  re- 
gions than  in  the  equatorial,  will  there  be  lower ;  as 
well  from  that  cause  as  from  the  smaller  effect  of  the 
centrifugal  force;  consequently  the  distance  to  the 
vacuum  above  the  atmosphere  will  be  less  at  the  poles 
than  elsewhere;  and  probably  much  less  than  the 
distance  (upon  the  surface  of  the  globe)  extending 
from  the  pole  to  those  latitudes  in  which  the  earth 
is  so  thawed  as  to  receive  and  imbibe  electricity ;  the 
frost  continuing  to  latitude  80,  which  is  10  degrees 


392  The  Works  of  [1779 

or  600  miles  from  the  pole,  while  the  height  of  the 
atmosphere  there,  of  such  density  as  to  obstruct  the 
motion  of  the  electric  fluid,  can  scarce  be  estimated 
above miles. 

23.  The  vacuum  above  is  a  good  conductor. 

24.  May  not,  then,  the  great  quantity  of  electricity 
brought  into  the  polar  regions  by  the  clouds,  which 
are  condensed  there,  and  fall  in  snow,  which  elec- 
tricity would  enter  the  earth,  but  cannot  penetrate 
the  ice;  may  it  not,  I  say  (as  a  bottle  overcharged) 
break  through  that  low  atmosphere  and  run  along 
in  the  vacuum  over  the  air  towards  the  equator,  di- 
verging as  the  degrees  of  longitude  enlarge,  strongly 
visible  where  densest,  and  becoming  less  visible  as  it 
more  diverges;  till  it  finds  a  passage  to  the  earth  in 
more  temperate  climates,  or  is  mingled  with  their 
upper  air  ? 

25.  If  such  an  operation  of  nature  were  really  per- 
formed, would  it  not  give  all  the  appearances  of  an 

AURORA  BOREALIS? 

26.  And  would  not  the  auroras  become  more  fre- 
quent after  the  approach  of  winter;  not  only  because 
more  visible  in  the  longer  nights,  but  also  because  in 
summer  the  long  presence  of  the  sun  may  soften  the 
surface  of  the  great  ice  cake,  and  render  it  a  con- 
ductor, by  which  the  accumulation  of  electricity  in 
the  polar  regions  will  be  prevented  ? 

27.  The  atmosphere  of  the  polar  regions  being  made 
more  dense  by  the  extreme  cold,  and  all  the  moisture 
in  that  air  being  frozen,  may  not  any  great  light  aris- 
ing therein,  and  passing  through  it,  render  its  density 
in  some  degree  visible  during  the  night-time,  to  those 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  393 

who  live  in  the  rarer  air  of  more  southern  latitudes  ? 
And  would  it  not,  in  that  case,  although  in  itself  a 
complete  and  full  circle,  extending  perhaps  ten  de- 
grees from  the  pole,  appear  to  spectators  so  placed 
(who  could  see  only  a  part  of  it)  in  the  form  of  a  seg- 
ment, its  chord  resting  on  the  horizon,  and  its  arch 
elevated  more  or  less  above  it,  as  seen  from  latitudes 
more  or  less  distant,  darkish  in  color,  but  yet  suffi- 
ciently transparent  to  permit  some  stars  to  be  seen 
through  it? 

28.  The  rays  of  electric  matter  issuing  out  of  a 
body,  diverge  by  mutually  repelling  each  other,  un- 
less there  be  some  conducting  body  near  to  receive 
them;  and  if  that  conducting  body  be  at  a  greater 
distance,  they  will  first  diverge,  and  then  converge,  in 
order  to  enter  it.  May  not  this  account  for  some  of 
the  varieties  of  figure  seen  at  times  in  the  motions  of 
the  luminous  matter  of  the  aurorae ;  since  it  is  possi- 
ble that,  in  passing  over  the  atmosphere  from  the 
north,  in  all  directions  or  meridians,  towards  the 
equator,  the  rays  of  that  matter  may  find  in  many 
places  portions  of  cloudy  region,  or  moist  atmosphere 
under  them,  which  (being  in  the  natural  or  negative 
state)  may  be  fit  to  receive  them,  and  towards  which 
they  may  therefore  converge ;  and  when  one  of  those 
receiving  bodies  is  more  than  saturated,  they  may 
again  diverge  from  it,  towards  other  surrounding 
masses  of  such  humid  atmosphere,  and  thus  form  the 
crowns,  as  they  are  called,  and  other  figures  men- 
tioned in  the  histories  of  this  meteor  ? 

29.  If  it  be  true  that  the  clouds  which  go  to  the 
polar  regions  carry  thither  the  vapors  of  the  equa- 


394 


The  Works  of  [1779 


torial  and  temperate  regions,  which  vapors  are  con- 
densed by  the  extreme  cold  of  the  polar  regions  and 
fall  in  snow  or  hail,  the  winds  which  come  from 
those  regions  ought  to  be  generally  dry,  unless  they 
gain  some  humidity  by  sweeping  the  ocean  in  their 
way;  and,  if  I  mistake  not,  the  winds  between  the 
northwest  and  northeast  are  for  the  most  part  dry, 
when  they  have  continued  some  time.' 

[In  the  Philosophical  Transactions  for  1774,  p.  128, 
is  a  letter  from  Mr.  J.  S.  Winn,  to  Dr.  Franklin,  stating 
that  since  he  had  first  made  the  observation  concerning 
the  south  or  southwest  winds  succeeding  an  aurora,  he 
had  found  it  invariably  obtaining  in  twenty-three  in- 
stances ;  and  he  adds  in  a  note  a  fresh  confirming  instance. 
In  reply.  Dr.  Franklin  makes  the  following  conjecture.] 

The  aurora  borealis,  though  visible  almost  every 
night  of  clear  weather  in  the  more  northern  regions, 
and  very  high  in  the  atmosphere,  can  scarce  be  visible 
in  England  but  when  the  atmosphere  is  pretty  clear 
of  clouds  for  the  whole  space  between  us  and  those 
regions;  and  therefore  are  seldom  visible  there. 
This  extensive  clearness  may  have  been  produced  by 
a  long  continuance  of  northerly  winds.  When  the 
winds  have  long  continued  in  one  quarter,  the  return 
is  often  violent.  Allowing  the  fact  so  repeatedly  ob- 
served by  Mr.  Winn,  perhaps  this  may  account  for 
the  violence  of  the  southerly  winds,  that  soon  follow 
the  appearance  of  the  aurora  on  our  coasts. 

I  In  one  of  the  copies  of  this  paper  there  is  a  line  drawn  across  this 
last  article.— W.  T.  F. 

This  paragraph  is  not  contained  in  Mr.  Vaughan's  edition,  and  was 
probably  not  communicated  to  him  by  the  author. — Editor. 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  395 

DCCXXXIV 

TO    MADAME    HELVETIUS 

Mortified  at  the  barbarous  resolution  pronounced 
by  you  so  positively  yesterday  evening,  that  yoti 
would  remain  single  the  rest  of  your  life  as  a  compli- 
ment due  to  the  memory  of  your  husband,  I  retired 
to  my  chamber.  Throwing  myself  upon  my  bed,  I 
dreamt  that  I  was  dead,  and  was  transported  to  the 
Elysian  Fields. 

I  was  asked  whether  I  wished  to  see  any  persons 
in  particular;  to  which  I  replied  that  I  wished  to 
see  the  philosophers.  "There  are  two  who  live  here 
at  hand  in  this  garden;  they  are  good  neighbors,  and 
very  friendly  towards  one  another."  —  "Who  are 
they  ? "  —  "  Socrates  and  Helve  tins . "  —  "I  esteem 
them  both  highly ;  but  let  me  see  Helvetius  first,  be- 
cause I  understand  a  little  French,  but  not  a  word  of 
Greek."  I  was  conducted  to  him,  he  received  me 
with  much  courtesy,  having  known  me,  he  said,  by 
character,  some  time  past.  He  asked  me  a  thousand 
questions  relative  to  the  war,  the  present  state  of 
religion,  of  liberty,  of  the  government  in  France. 
"  You  do  not  inquire,  then,"  said  I,  " after  your  dear 
friend,  Madame  Helvetius;  yet  she  loves  you  ex- 
ceedingly. I  was  in  her  company  not  more  than  an 
hour  ago."  "Ah,"  said  he,  "you  make  me  recur  to 
my  past  happiness,  which  ought  to  be  forgotten  in 
order  to  be  happy  here.  For  many  years  I  could 
think  of  nothing  but  her,  though  at  length  I  am  con- 
soled. I  have  taken  another  wife,  the  most  like  her 
that  I  could  find;    she  is  not  indeed  altogether  so 


39^  The  Works  of  [1779 

handsome,  but  she  has  a  great  fund  of  wit  and  good- 
sense,  and  her  whole  study  is  to  please  me.  She  is 
at  this  moment  gone  to  fetch  the  best  nectar  and  am- 
brosia to  regale  me;  stay  here  awhile  and  you  will 
see  her."  "I  perceive,"  said  I,  "that  your  former 
friend  is  more  faithful  to  you  than  you  are  to  her ;  she 
has  had  several  good  offers,  but  has  refused  them  all. 
I  will  confess  to  you  that  I  loved  her  extremely ;  but 
she  was  cruel  to  me,  and  rejected  me  peremptorily 
for  your  sake. "  "  I  pity  you  sincerely, "  said  he,  "  for 
she  is  an  excellent  woman,  handsome  and  amiable. 
But  do  not  the  Abbe  de  la  R  *  *  *  *  and  the  Abbe 
M  *  *  *  *  visit  her?" — "Certainly  they  do;  not 
one  of  your  friends  has  dropped  her  acquaintance." 
— "If  you  had  gained  the  Abbe  M  *  *  *  *  with  a 
bribe  of  good  coffee  and  cream,  perhaps  you  would 
have  succeeded ;  for  he  is  as  deep  a  reasoner  as  Duns 
Scotus  or  St.  Thomas;  he  arranges  and  methodizes 
his  arguments  in  such  a  manner  that  they  are  al- 
most irresistible.  Or  if  by  a  fine  edition  of  some  old 
classic  you  had  gained  the  Abbe  de  la  R  *  *  *  * 
to  speak  against  you,  that  would  have  been  still 
better,  as  I  always  observed  that  when  he  recom- 
mended any  thing  to  her,  she  had  a  great  inclination 
to  do  directly  the  contrary."  As  he  finished  these 
words  the  new  Madame  Helvetius  entered  with  the 
nectar,  and  I  recognized  her  immediately  as  my  for- 
mer American  friend,  Mrs.  Franklin!  I  reclaimed 
her,  but  she  answered  me  coldly :  "I  was  a  good  wife 
to  you  for  forty-nine  years  and  four  months,  nearly 
half  a  century ;  let  that  content  you.  I  have  formed 
a  new  connection  here,  which  will  last  to  eternity." 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  397 

Indignant  at  this  refusal  of  my  Eurydice,  I  im- 
mediately resolved  to  quit  those  ungrateful  shades, 
and  return  to  this  good  world  again,  to  behold  the 
Sim  and  you !     Here  I  am ;  let  us  avenge  ourselves! 


DCCXXXV 

TO    MADAME    HELVETIUS,    AT    AUTEUIL 

— And  now  I  mention  your  friends,  let  me  tell 


you,  that  I  have  in  my  way  been  trying  to  form  some 
hypothesis  to  account  for  your  having  so  many,  and 
of  such  various  kinds.  I  see  that  statesmen,  philo- 
sophers, historians,  poets,  and  men  of  learning  of  all 
sorts  are  drawn  around  you,  and  seem  as  willing  to 
attach  themselves  to  you  as  straws  about  a  fine  piece 
of  amber.  It  is  not  that  you  make  pretensions  to 
any  of  their  sciences;  and  if  you  did,  similarity  of 
studies  does  not  always  make  people  love  one  an- 
other. It  is  not  that  you  take  pains  to  engage  them ; 
artless  simplicity  is  a  striking  part  of  your  character. 
I  would  not  attempt  to  explain  it  by  the  story  of  the 
ancient,  who,  being  asked  wh}  philosophers  sought 
the  acquaintance  of  kings,  and  kings  not  that  of 
philosophers,  replied  that  philosophers  knew  what 
they  wanted,  which  was  not  always  the  case  with 
kings.  Yet  thus  far  the  comparison  may  go,  that 
we  find  in  your  sweet  society  that  charming  benevo- 
lence, that  amiable  attention  to  oblige,  that  disposi- 
tion to  please  and  be  pleased,  which  we  do  not  always 
find  in  the  society  of  one  another.     It  springs  from 


39^  The  Works  of  [1779 

you;   it  has  its  influence  on  us  all,  and  in  your  com- 
pany we  are  not  only  pleased  with  you,  but  better 
pleased  with  one  another  and  with  ourselves. 
I  am  ever,  with  great  respect  and  affection,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


DCCXXXVI 

TO  L'ABBE  DE  la  ROCHE,  AT  AUTEUIL 

I  have  run  over,  my  dear  friend,  the  little  book  of 
poetry,  by  M.  Helvetius,  with  which  you  presented 
me.  The  poem  on  Happiness  pleased  me  much,  and 
brought  to  my  recollection  a  little  drinking-song, 
which  I  wrote  forty  years  ago  upon  the  same  subject, 
and  which  is  nearly  on  the  same  plan,  with  many  of 
the  same  thoughts,  but  very  concisely  expressed.  It 
is  as  follows : 

Singer. 

Fair  Venus  calls;  her  voice  obey, 
In  beauty's  arms  spend  night  and  day. 
The  joys  of  love  all  joys  excel, 
And  loving 's  certainly  doing  well. 

Chorus. 
Oh!  no! 
Not  so ! 

For  honest  souls  know, 
Friends  and  a  bottle  still  bear  the  bell. 

Singer 

Then  let  us  get  money,  like  bees  lay  up  honey; 
We  '11  build  us  new  hives,  and  store  each  cell. 
The  sight  of  our  treasure  shall  yield  us  great  pleasure; 
We  '11  count  it,  and  chink  it,  and  jingle  it  well. 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  399 

Chorus 
Oh!  no! 
Not  so ! 

For  honest  souls  know, 
Friends  and  a  bottle  still  bear  the  bell. 

Singer 

If  this  does  not  fit  ye,  let's  govern  the  city, 

In  power  is  pleasure  no  tongue  can  tell ; 

By  crowds  though  you're  teased,  your  pride  shall  be  pleased. 

And  this  can  make  Lucifer  happy  in  hell ! 

Chorus 
Oh!  no! 
Not  so ! 

For  honest  souls  know. 
Friends  and  a  bottle  still  bear  the  bell. 

Singer 

Then  toss  off  your  glasses,  and  scorn  the  dull  asses. 
Who,  missing  the  kernel,  still  gnaw  the  shell; 
What  's  love,  rule,  or  riches?     Wise  Solomon  teaches, 
They  're  vanity,  vanity,  vanity  still. 

Chorus 
That  's  true ; 
He  knew; 

He'd  tried  them  all  through; 
Friends  and  a  bottle  still  bore  the  bell. 

'T  is  a  singer,  my  dear  Abbe,  who  exhorts  his 
companions  to  seek  happiness  in  love,  in  riches,  and 
in  power.  They  reply,  singing  together,  that  happi- 
ness is  not  to  be  found  in  any  of  these  things;  that 
it  is  only  to  be  found  in  friends  and  wine.  To  this 
proposition  the  singer  at  last  assents.     The  phrase 


400  The  Works  of  [1779 

"bear  the  bell,''  answers  to  the  French  expression, 
"obtain  the  prize.'' 

I  have  often  remarked,  in  reading  the  works  of  M. 
Helvetius,  that,  although  we  were  born  and  educated 
in  two  countries  so  remote  from  each  other,  we  have 
often  been  inspired  with  the  same  thoughts;  and  it 
is  a  reflection  very  flattering  to  me,  that  we  have  not 
only  loved  the  same  studies,  but,  as  far  as  we  have 
mutually  known  them,  the  same  friends,  and  the 
same  woman. "^     Adieu!  my  dear  friend,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


DCCXXXVII 

TO    L'aBBE   DE    la    ROCHE 

"M.  Franklin  n'oublie  jamais  aucune  Partie  ou 
Mme.  Helvetius  doit  etre.  II  croit  mgmje  que  s'il 
etait  engage  d'aller  a  Paradis  ce  matin,  il  ferai  sup- 
plication d'estre  permis  de  rester  sur  terre  jusqu'  k 
une  heure  et  demi,  pour  recevoir  I'Embrassade  qu'  elle 
a  bien  voulu  lui  promettre  en  le  rencontrant  chez 
M.  Turgot."^ 

^  Madame  Helvetius. 

2  "One  may  judge  of  Franklin's  gallantry,"  says  M.  Laboulaye,  "by 
a  note  which  is  preserved  in  the  Imperial  Library,  and  which  has  never 
been  published.  I  am  indebted  for  a  copy  of  it  to  my  amiable  and 
learned  colleague,  M.  Paulin,  of  Paris.  I  respect  the  orthography  of 
Franklin." 

The  note  here  referred  to  is  given  in  the  text,  and  the  following  is 
a  translation  of  it : 

"Mr.  Franklin  never  forgets  any  party  at  which  Madame  Helvetius 
is  expected.  He  even  believes  that  if  he  were  engaged  to  go  to  Para- 
dise this  morning,  he  would  pray  for  permission  to  remain  on  the 
earth  until  half-past  one,  to  receive  the  embrace  promised  him  at  the 
Turgots'." 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  401 

DCCXXXVIII 

TO  l'abbe  morellet 

Passy, . 

You  have  often  enlivened  me  my  dear  friend,  by 
your  excellent  drinking-songs;  in  return,  I  beg  to 
edify  you  by  some  Christian,  moral,  and  philosophical 
reflections  upon  the  same  subject. 

In  vino  Veritas,  says  the  wise  man, — Truth  is  in 
wine.  Before  the  days  of  Noah,  then,  men,  having 
nothing  but  water  to  drink,  could  not  discover  the 
truth.  Thus  they  went  astray,  became  abominably 
wicked,  and  were  justly  exterminated  by  water,  which 
they  loved  to  drink. 

The  good  man  Noah,  seeing  that  through  this  per- 
nicious beverage  all  his  contemporaries  had  perished, 
took  it  in  aversion;  and  to  quench  his  thirst  God 
created  the  vine,  and  revealed  to  him  the  means  of 
converting  its  fruit  into  wine.  By  means  of  this 
liquor  he  discovered  numberless  important  truths ;  so 
that  ever  since  his  time  the  word  to  divine  has  been 
in  common  use,  signifying  originally,  to  discover  by 
means  of  wine.  Thus  the  patriarch  Joseph  took 
upon  himself  to  divine  by  means  of  a  cup  or  glass  of 
WINE  a  liquor  which  obtained  this  name  to  show  that 
it  was  not  of  human  but  divine  invention  (another 
proof  of  the  antiquity  of  the  French  language,  in  op- 
position to  M.  Gebelin) ;  nay,  since  that  time,  all 
things  of  peculiar  excellence,  even  the  Deities  them- 
selves, have  been  called  Divine  or  Di'ymities. 

We  hear  of  the  conversion  of  water  into  wine  at 
the  marriage  in  Cana  as  of  a  miracle.     But  this 


402  The  Works  of  [1779 

conversion  is,  through  the  goodness  of  God,  made 
every  day  before  our  eyes.  Behold  the  rain  which 
descends  from  heaven  upon  our  vineyards,  and  which 
incorporates  itself  with  the  grapes,  to  be  changed 
into  wine;  a  constant  proof  that  God  loves  us, 
and  loves  to  see  us  happy.  The  miracle  in  ques- 
tion was  only  performed  to  hasten  the  operation, 
under  circumstances  of  present  necessity,  which  re- 
quired it. 

It  is  true  that  God  has  also  instructed  man  to  re- 
duce wine  into  water.  But  into  what  sort  of  water  ? 
— Water  of  Life.^  And  this,  that  man  may  be  able 
upon  occasion  to  perform  the  miracle  of  Cana,  and 
convert  common  water  into  that  excellent  species  of 
wine  which  we  call  punch. 

My  Christian  brother,  be  kind  and  benevolent  like 
God,  and  do  not  spoil  his  good  work.  He  made 
wine  to  gladden  the  heart  of  man ;  do  not,  therefore, 
when  at  table  you  see  your  neighbor  pour  wine  into 
his  glass,  be  eager  to  mingle  water  with  it.  Why 
would  you  drown  truthf  It  is  probable  that  your 
neighbor  knows  better  than  you  can  what  suits  him. 
Perhaps  he  does  not  like  water;  perhaps  he  would 
only  put  in  a  few  drops  for  fashion's  sake;  perhaps 
he  does  not  wish  any  one  to  observe  how  much  he 
puts  in  his  glass.  Do  not,  then,  offer  water,  except 
to  children;  't  is  a  mistaken  piece  of  politeness,  and 
often  very  inconvenient.  I  give  you  this  hint  as  a 
man  of  the  world;  and  I  will  finish  as  I  began,  like 
a  good  Christian,  in  making  a  religious  observation 
of  high  importance,  taken  from  the  Holy  Scriptures. 

^  Eati-de-vie,  that  is,  brandy. 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  403 

I  mean  that  the  apostle  Paul  counselled  Timothy 
very  seriously  to  put  wine  into  his  water  for  the 
sake  of  his  health;  but  that  not  one  of  the  apostles 
or  holy  fathers  ever  recommended  putting  water  to 
wine.  B.  Franklin. 

P.  S. — To  confirm  still  more  your  piety  and  grati- 
tude to  Divine  Providence,  reflect  upon  the  situation 
which  it  has  given  to  the  elhow.  You  see  in  animals, 
who  are  intended  to  drink  the  waters  that  flow  upon 
the  earth,  that  if  they  have  long  legs,  they  have  also 
a  long  neck,  so  that  they  can  get  at  their  drink  with- 
out kneeling  down.  But  man,  who  was  destined  to 
drink  wine,  is  framed  in  a  manner  that  he  may  raise 
the  glass  to  his  mouth.  If  the  elbow  had  been 
placed  nearer  the  hand,  the  part  in  advance  would 
have  been  too  short  to  bring  the  glass  up  to  the 
mouth ;  and  if  it  had  been  nearer  the  shoulder,  that 
part  would  have  been  so  long  that  when  it  attempted 
to  carry  the  wine  to  the  mouth  it  would  have  over- 
shot the  mark,  and  gone  beyond  the  head;  thus, 
either  way,  we  should  have  been  in  the  case  of  Tanta- 
lus. But  from  the  actual  situation  of  the  elbow,  we 
are  enabled  to  drink  at  our  ease,  the  glass  going  di- 
rectly to  the  mouth.  Let  us,  then,  with  glass  in 
hand,  adore  this  benevolent  wisdom; — let  us  adore 
and  drink! 


404  The  Works  of  [1779 

DCCXXXIX 

AN    ECONOMICAL    PROJECT 

To  the  Authors  of  the  Journal  of  Paris: 

Messieurs  : — You  often  entertain  us  with  accounts 
of  new  discoveries.  Permit  me  to  communicate  to 
the  pubHc,  through  your  paper,  one  that  has  lately 
been  made  by  myself,  and  which  I  conceive  may  be 
of  great  utility. 

I  was  the  other  evening  in  a  grand  company,  where 
the  new  lamp  of  Messrs.  Quinquet  and  Lange  was 
introduced,  and  much  admired  for  its  splendor;  but 
a  general  inquiry  was  made,  whether  the  oil  it  con- 
sumed was  not  in  proportion  to  the  light  it  afforded, 
in  which  case  there  would  be  no  saving  in  the  use  of 
it.  No  one  present  could  satisfy  us  in  that  point, 
which  all  agreed  ought  to  be  known,  it  being  a  very 
desirable  thing  to  lessen,  if  possible,  the  expense  of 
lighting  our  apartments,  when  every  other  article  of 
family  expense  was  so  much  augmented. 

I  was  pleased  to  see  this  general  concern  for  econ- 
omy, for  I  love  economy  exceedingly. 

I  went  home,  and  to  bed,  three  or  four  hours  after 
midnight,  with  my  head  full  of  the  subject.  An  acci- 
dental sudden  noise  waked  me  about  six  in  the  morn- 
ing, when  I  was  surprised  to  find  my  room  filled  with 
light ;  and  I  imagined  at  first  that  a  number  of  those 
lamps  had  been  brought  into  it;  but,  rubbing  my 
eyes,  I  perceived  the  light  came  in  at  the  windows. 
I  got  up  and  looked  out  to  see  what  might  be  the 
occasion  of  it,  when  I  saw  the  sun  just  rising  above 
the  horizon,  whence  he  poured  his  rays  plentifully 


17791  Benjamin  Franklin  405 

into  my  chamber,  my  domestic  having  negligently 
omitted,  the  preceding  evening,  to  close  the  shutters. 
I  looked  at  my  watch,  which  goes  very  well,  and 
found  that  it  was  but  six  o'clock;  and  still  thinking 
it  something  extraordinary  that  the  sun  should  rise 
so  early,  I  looked  into  the  almanac,  where  I  found  it 
to  be  the  hour  given  for  his  rising  on  that  day.  I 
looked  forward,  too,  and  found  he  was  to  rise  still 
earlier  every  day  till  towards  the  end  of  June;  and 
that  at  no  time  in  the  year  he  retarded  his  rising  so 
long  as  till  eight  o  'clock.  Your  readers,  who  with  me 
have  never  seen  any  signs  of  sunshine  before  noon, 
and  seldom  regard  the  astronomical  part  of  the  alma- 
nac, will  be  as  much  astonished  as  I  was,  when  they 
hear  of  his  rising  so  early;  and  especially  when  I 
assure  them  that  he  gives  light  as  soon  as  he  rises.  I 
am  convinced  of  this.  I  am  certain  of  my  fact.  One 
cannot  be  more  certain  of  any  fact.  I  saw  it  with 
my  own  eyes.  And,  having  repeated  this  observa- 
tion the  three  following  mornings,  I  found  always 
precisely  the  same  result. 

Yet  it  so  happens  that,  when  I  speak  of  this  dis- 
covery to  others,  I  can  easily  perceive  by  their  coun- 
tenances, though  they  forbear  expressing  it  in  words, 
that  they  do  not  quite  believe  me.  One,  indeed,  who 
is  a  learned  natural  philosopher,  has  assured  me  that 
I  must  certainly  be  mistaken  as  to  the  circumstance 
of  the  light  coming  into  my  room;  for  it  being  well 
known,  as  he  says,  that  there  could  be  no  light  abroad 
at  that  hour,  it  follows  that  none  could  enter  from 
without;  and  that  of  consequence,  my  windows  being 
accidentally  left  open,  instead  of  letting  in  the  light. 


4o6  The  Works  of  [1779 

had  only  served  to  let  out  the  darkness ;  and  he  used 
many  ingenious  arguments  to  show  me  how  I  might, 
by  that  means,  have  been  deceived.  I  owned  that  he 
puzzled  me  a  little,  but  he  did  not  satisfy  me;  and 
the  subsequent  observations  I  made,  as  above  men- 
tioned, confirmed  me  in  m.y  first  opinion. 

This  event  has  given  rise  in  my  mind  to  several 
serious  and  important  reflections.  I  considered  that 
if  I  had  not  been  awakened  so  early  in  the  morning  I 
should  have  slept  six  hours  longer  by  the  light  of  the 
sun,  and  in  exchange  have  lived  six  hours  the  follow- 
ing night  by  candle-light,  and  the  latter  being  a  much 
more  expensive  light  than  the  former,  my  love  of 
economy  induced  me  to  muster  up  what  little  arith- 
metic I  was  master  of,  and  to  make  some  calculations 
which  I  shall  give  you,  after  observing  that  utility  is, 
in  my  opinion,  the  test  of  value  in  matters  of  inven- 
tion, and  that  a  discovery  \#iich  can  be  applied  to  no 
use,  or  is  not  good  for  something,  is  good  for  nothing. 

I  took  for  the  basis  of  my  calculation  the  supposi- 
tion that  there  are  one  hundred  thousand  famihes  in 
Paris,  and  that  these  famihes  consume  in  the  night 
half  a  pound  of  bougies,  or  candles,  per  hour.  I 
think  this  is  a  moderate  allowance,  taking  one  family 
with  another;  for  though  I  believe  some  consume 
less,  I  know  that  many  consume  a  great  deal  more. 
Then  estimating  seven  hours  per  day  as  the  medium 
quantity  between  the  time  of  the  sun's  rising  and 
ours,  he  rising  during  the  six  following  months  from 
six  to  eight  hours  before  noon,  and  there  being  seven 
hours,  of  course,  per  night,  in  which  we  bum  candles, 
the  account  will  stand  thus: 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  407 

In  the  six  months  between  the  20th  of  March  and 
the  20th  of  September  there  are 

Nights 183 

Hours  of  each  night  in  which  we  bum 

candles  ......  7 

Multiplication  gives  for  the  total  num- 
ber of  hours      .....  1,281 

These  1,281  hours  multiplied  by  100,000, 

the  number  of  inhabitants,  give       .   128,100,000 

One  hundred  twenty-eight  millions  and 
one  hundred  thousand  hours  spent 
at  Paris  by  candle-light,  which,  at 
half  a  pound  of  wax  and  tallov/  per 
hour,  gives  the  weight  of        .         .      64,050,000 

Sixty-four  millions  and  fifty  thousands 
of  pounds,  which,  estimating  the 
whole  at  the  medium'  price  of  thirty 
sols  the  pound,  makes  the  sum  of 
ninety-six  millions  and  seventy- 
five  thousand  livres  toumois  .         .     96,075,000 

An  immense  sum,  that  the  cit}^  of  Paris  might  save 
every  year  by  the  economy  of  using  sunshine  instead 
of  candles! 

If  it  should  be  said  that  people  are  apt  to  be  ob- 
stinately attached  to  old  customs,  and  that  it  will  be 
difficult  to  induce  them  to  rise  before  noon,  conse- 
quently my  discovery  can  be  of  little  use,  I  answer, 
Nil  desperandum.  I  believe  all  who  have  common- 
sense,  as  soon  as  they  have  learnt  from  this  paper 
that  it  is  daylight  when  the  sun  rises,  will  contrive  to 


4o8  The  Works  of  [1779 

rise  with  him,  and,  to  compel  the  rest,  I  would  pro- 
pose the  following  regulations: 

First.  Let  a  tax  be  laid  of  a  louis  per  window  on 
every  window  that  is  provided  with  shutters  to  keep 
out  the  light  of  the  sun. 

Second.  Let  the  same  salutary  operation  of  po- 
lice be  made  use  of,  to  prevent  our  burning  candles, 
that  inclined  us  last  winter  to  be  more  economical  in 
burning  wood;  that  is,  let  guards  be  placed  in  the 
shops  of  the  wax  and  tallow  chandlers,  and  no  family 
be  permitted  to  be  supplied  with  more  than  one 
pound  of  candles  per  week. 

Third.  Let  guards  also  be  posted  to  stop  all  the 
coaches,  etc.,  that  would  pass  the  streets  after  sun- 
set, except  those  of  physicians,  surgeons,  and  mid- 
wives. 

Fourth.  Every  morning,  as  soon  as  the  sun  rises, 
let  all  the  bells  in  every  church  be  set  ringing ;  and 
if  that  is  not  sufficient,  let  cannon  be  fired  in  every 
street,  to  wake  the  sluggards  effectually,  and  make 
them  open  their  eyes  to  see  their  true  interest. 

All  the  difficulty  will  be  in  the  first  two  or  three 
days,  after  which  the  reformation  will  be  as  natural 
and  easy  as  the  present  irregularity;  for,  ce  n'est  que 
le  premier  pas  qui  coute.  Oblige  a  man  to  rise  at 
four  in  the  morning,  and  it  is  more  than  probable  he 
will  go  willingly  to  bed  at  eight  in  the  evening;  and, 
having  had  eight  hours'  sleep,  he  will  rise  more  will- 
ingly at  four  in  the  morning  following.  But  this 
sum  of  ninety-six  milhons  and  seventy-five  thousand 
livres  is  not  the  whole  of  what  may  be  saved  by  my 
economical  project.     You  may  observe  that  I  have 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  409 

calculated  upon  only  one  half  of  the  year,  and  much 
may  be  saved  in  the  other,  though  the  days  are 
shorter.  Besides,  the  immense  stock  of  wax  and 
tallow  left  unconsumed  during  the  summer  will 
probably  make  candles  much  cheaper  for  the  ensuing 
winter,  and  continue  them  cheaper  as  long  as  the 
proposed  reformation  shall  be  supported. 

For  the  great  benefit  of  this  discovery,  thus  freely 
communicated  and  bestowed  by  me  on  the  public,  I 
demand  neither  place,  pension,  exclusive  privilege, 
nor  any  other  reward  whatever.  I  expect  only  to 
have  the  honor  of  it.  And  yet  I  know  there  are  lit- 
tle, envious  minds  who  will,  as  usual,  deny  me  this, 
and  say  that  my  invention  was  known  to  the  an- 
cients, and  perhaps  they  may  bring  passages  out  of 
the  old  books  in  proof  of  it.  I  will  not  dispute  with 
these  people  that  the  ancients  knew  not  that  the  sun 
would  rise  at  certain  hours;  they  possibly  had,  as  we 
have,  almanacs  that  predicted  it,  but  it  does  not 
follow  thence  that  they  knew  he  gave  light  as  soon  as 
he  rose.  This  is  what  I  claim  as  my  discovery.  If  the 
ancients  knew  it,  it  must  have  been  long  since  for- 
gotten ;  for  it  certainly  was  unknown  to  the  modems, 
at  least  to  the  Parisians,  which  to  prove  I  need  use 
but  one  plain  simple  argument.  They  are  as  well  in- 
structed, judicious,  and  prudent  a  people  as  exist 
anywhere  in  the  world,  all  professing,  like  myself,  to 
be  lovers  of  economy,  and  from  the  many  heavy 
taxes  required  from  them  by  the  necessities  of  the 
state,  have  surely  an  abundant  reason  to  be  economi- 
cal. I  say  it  is  impossible  that  so  sensible  a  people, 
under  such  circumstances,  should  have  lived  so  long 


41  o  The  Works  of  [1779 

by  the  smoky,  unwholesome,  and  enormously  expen- 
sive Hght  of  candles,  if  they  had  really  known  that 
they  might  have  had  as  much  pure  light  of  the  sun 
for  nothing.     I  am,  etc., 

A  Subscriber. 


DCCXL 

THE    LEVEE  ' 

In  the  first  chapter  of  Job  we  have  an  account  of  a 
transaction  said  to  have  arisen  in  the  court,  or  at  the 
levee,  of  the  best  of  all  possible  princes,  or  of  govern- 
ments by  a  single  person,  viz.,  that  of  God  himself. 

At  this  levee,  in  which  the  sons  of  God  were  assem- 
bled, Satan  also  appeared. 

It  is  probable  the  writer  of  that  ancient  book  took 
his  idea  of  this  levee  from  those  of  the  Eastern  mon- 
archs  of  the  age  he  lived  in. 

It  is  to  this  day  usual  at  the  levees  of  princes  to 
have  persons  assembled  who  are  enemies  to  each 
other,  who  seek  to  obtain  favor  by  whispering  ca- 
lumny and  detraction,  and  thereby  ruining  those  that 
distinguish  themselves  by  their  virtue  and  merit. 
And  kings  frequently  ask  a  familiar  question  or  two 
of  every  one  in  the  circle,  merely  to  show  their  be- 
nignity. These  circumstances  are  particularly  ex- 
emplified in  this  relation. 

If  a  modem  king,  for  instance,  finds  a  person  in  the 
circle  who  has  not  lately  been  there,  he  naturally  asks 

^  This  was  one  of  several  articles  written  by  Franklin  for  the  amuse- 
ment of  his  friends,  and  which  were  found  in  a  portfolio  endorsed 
"  Bagatelles." — Editor. 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  411 

him  how  he  has  passed  his  time  since  he  last  had  the 
pleasure  of  seeing  him.  The  gentleman  perhaps  re- 
plies that  he  has  been  in  the  country  to  view  his 
estates  and  visit  some  friends.  Thus  Satan  being 
asked  whence  he  cometh,  answers:  "From  going  to 
and  fro  in  the  earth,  and  walking  up  and  down  in  it." 
And  being  further  asked  whether  he  had  considered 
the  uprightness  and  fidelity  of  the  prince's  servant 
Job,  he  immediately  displays  all  the  malignance  of 
the  designing  courtier  by  answering  with  another 
question:  "Doth  Job  serve  God  for  naught?  Hast 
thou  not  given  him  immense  wealth,  and  protected 
him  in  the  possession  of  it?  Deprive  him  of  that 
and  he  will  curse  thee  to  thy  face."  In  modem 
phrase :  "  Take  away  his  places  and  his  pensions  and 
your  Majesty  will  soon  find  him  in  the  opposition." 

This  whisper  against  Job  had  its  effect.  He  was 
delivered  into  the  power  of  his  adversary,  who  de- 
prived him  of  his  fortune,  destroyed  his  family,  and 
completely  ruined  him. 

The  Book  of  Job  is  called  by  divines  a  sacred 
poem,  and  with  the  rest  of  the  Holy  Scriptures  is 
understood  to  be  written  for  our  instruction. 

What  then  is  the  instruction  to  be  gathered  from 
this  supposed  transaction  ? 

Trust  not  a  single  person  with  the  government  of 
your  state.  For  if  the  Deity  himself,  being  the  mon- 
arch, may  for  a  time  give  way  to  calumny,  and  suffer 
it  to  operate  the  destruction  of  the  best  of  subjects, 
what  mischief  may  you  not  expect  from  such  power 
in  a  mere  man,  though  the  best  of  men,  from  w^hom 
the  truth  is  often  industriously  hidden,  and  to  whom 


412  The  Works  of  [1779 

falsehood  is  often  presented  in  its  place,  by  artful, 
interested,  and  malicious  courtiers? 

And  be  cautious  in  trusting  him  even  with  limited 
powers,  lest  sooner  or  later  he  sap  and  destroy  those 
limits  and  render  himself  absolute. 

For  by  the  disposal  of  places  he  attaches  to  him- 
self all  the  place-holders,  with  their  numerous  con- 
nections, and  also  all  the  expecters  and  hopers  of 
places,  which  will  form  a  strong  party  in  promoting 
his  views.  By  various  political  engagements  for  the 
interest  of  neighboring  states  or  princes  he  procures 
their  aid  in  establishing  his  own  personal  power. 
So  that,  through  the  hopes  of  emolument  in  one  part 
of  his  subjects,  and  the  fear  of  his  resentment  in  the 
other,  all  opposition  falls  before  him. 


DCCXLI 

PROPOSED    NEW    VERSION    OF    THE    BIBLE 


To  the  Printer  of 

Sir: — It  is  now  more  than  one  hundred  and  sev- 
enty years  since  the  translation  of  our  common  Eng- 
lish Bible.  The  language  in  that  time  is  much 
changed,  and  the  style  being  obsolete,  and  thence 
less  agreeable,  is  perhaps  one  reason  why  the  reading 
of  that  excellent  book  is  of  late  so  much  neglected. 
I  have  therefore  thought  it  would  be  well  to  procure 
a  new  version  in  which,  preserving  the  sense,  the  turn 
of  phrase  and  manner  of  expression  should  be  modem. 
I  do  not  pretend  to  have  the  necessary  abilities  for 
such  a  work  myself;    I  throw  out  the  hint  for  the 


1779] 


Benjamin  Franklin 


413 


consideration  of  the  learned,  and  only  venture  to 
send  you  a  few  verses  of  the  first  chapter  of  Job, 
which  may  serve  as  a  sample  of  the  kind  of  version 
I  would  recommend.  A.  B. 

PART   OF   THE   FIRST   CHAPTER   OF  JOB   MODERNIZED 


Old  Text. 

Verse  6.  Now  there  was  a  day 
when  the  sons  of  God  came  to  pre- 
sent themselves  before  the  Lord, 
and  Satan  came  also  among 
them. 

7.  And  the  Lord  said  unto 
Satan;  Whence  comest  thou  ? 
Then  Satan  answered  the  Lord, 
and  said :  From  going  to  and  fro  in 
the  earth,  and  from  walking  up 
and  down  in  it. 

8.  And  the  Lord  said  unto 
Satan:  Hast  thou  considered  my 
servant  Job,  that  there  is  none  like 
him  in  the  earth,  a  perfect  and  an 
upright  man,  one  that  feareth 
God,  and  escheweth  evil? 

9.  Then  Satan  answered  the 
Lord,  and  said:  Doth  Job  fear 
God  for  nought  ? 


10.  Hast  not  thou  made  an 
hedge  about  his  house,  and  about 
all  that  he  hath  on  every  side? 
Thou  hast  blessed  the  work  of  his 
hands,  and  his  substance  is  in- 
creased in  the  land. 

11.  But  put  forth  thine  hand 
now,  and  touch  all  that  he  hath, 
and  he  will  curse  thee  to  thy  face. 


New  Version. 

Verse  6.  And  it  being  levee  day 
in  heaven,  all  God's  nobility  came 
to  court,  to  present  themselves  be- 
fore him ;  and  Satan  also  appeared 
in  the  circle,  as  one  of  the  minis- 
try. 

7.  And  God  said  to  Satan :  You 
have  been  some  time  absent; 
where  were  you?  And  Satan  an- 
swered: I  have  been  at  my  coun- 
try-seat, and  in  different  places 
visiting  my  friends. 

8.  And  God  said:  Well,  what 
think  you  of  Lord  Job  ?  You  see 
he  is  my  best  friend,  a  perfectly 
honest  man,  fiill  of  respect  for  me, 
and  avoiding  every  thing  that 
might  offend  me. 

9.  And  Satan  answered :  Does 
yotur  Majesty  imagine  that  his 
good  conduct  is  the  effect  of  mere 
personal  attachment  and  affec- 
tion? 

10.  Have  you  not  protected 
him,  and  heaped  your  benefits 
upon  him,  till  he  is  grown  enor- 
mously rich? 


II.  Try  him;  only  withdraw 
your  favor,  turn  him  out  of  his 
places,  and  withhold  his  pensions, 
and  you  will  soon  find  him  in  the 
opposition. 


414  The  Works  of  [1779 

DCCXLII 

APOLOGUE  ' 

Lion,  king  of  a  certain  forest,  had  among  his  sub- 
jects a  body  of  faithful  dogs,  in  principle  and  affec- 
tion strongly  attached  to  his  person  and  govern- 
ment, and  through  whose  assistance  he  had  extended 
his  dominions,  and  had  become  the  terror  of  his 
enemies. 

Lion,  however,  influenced  by  evil  counsellors,  took 
an  aversion  to  the  dogs,  condemned  them  unheard, 
and  ordered  his  tigers,  leopards,  and  panthers  to  at- 
tack and  destroy  them. 

The  dogs  petitioned  humbly,  but  their  petitions 
were  rejected  haughtily,  and  they  were  forced  to  de- 
fend themselves,  which  they  did  with  bravery. 

A  few  among  them,  of  a  mongrel  race,  derived  from 
a  mixture  with  wolves  and  foxes,  corrupted  by  royal 
promises  of  great  rewards,  deserted  the  honest  dogs, 
and  joined  their  enemies. 

The  dogs  were  finally  victorious ;  a  treaty  of  peace 
was  made  in  which  Lion  acknowledged  them  to  be 
free,  and  disclaimed  all  future  authority  over  them. 

The  mongrels,  not  being  permitted  to  return 
among  them,  claimed  of  the  royalists  the  reward  that 
had  been  promised. 

A  council  of  the  beasts  was  held  to  consider  their 
demand. 

The  wolves  and  the  foxes  agreed  unanimously  that 
the  demand  was  just,  that  royal  promises  ought  to 

^  Written  at  the  period  of,  and  in  allusion  to,  the  claims  of  the 
American  Royalists  on  the  British  Government. — W.  T.  F. 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  415 

be  kept,  and  that  every  loyal  subject  should  con- 
tribute freely  to  enable  his  Majesty  to  fulfil  them. 
The  horse  alone,  with  a  boldness  and  freedom  that 
became  the  nobleness  of  his  nature,  delivered  a  con- 
trary opinion; 

"  The  king,  said  he,  "  has  been  misled  by  bad  min- 
isters to  war  unjustly  upon  his  faithful  subjects. 
Royal  promises,  when  made  to  encourage  us  to  act 
for  the  public  good,  should  indeed  be  honorably  ac- 
quitted ;  but  if  to  encourage  us  to  betray  and  destroy 
each  other,  they  are  wicked  and  void  from  the  be- 
ginning. The  advisers  of  such  promises,  and  those 
who  murdered  in  consequence  of  them,  should  be  se- 
verely punished.  Consider  how  greatly  our  common 
strength  is  already  diminished  by  our  loss  of  the 
dogs.  If  3^ou  will  enable  the  king  to  reward  those 
fratricides,  you  will  establish  a  precedent  that  will 
justify  a  future  tyrant  to  make  like  promises,  and 
every  example  of  such  an  unnatural  brute  rewarded 
will  give  them  additional  weight.  Horses  and  bulls, 
as  well  as  dogs,  may  thus  be  divided  against  their 
own  kind,  and  civil  wars  produced  at  pleasure,  till  we 
are  so  weakened  that  neither  liberty  nor  safety  is  any 
longer  to  be  found  in  the  forest,  and  nothing  remains 
but  abject  submission  to  the  will  of  a  despot  who 
may  devour  us  as  he  pleases." 

The  council  had  sense  enough  to  resolve  that  the 
demand  be  rejected. 


4i6  The  Works  of  [1779 

DCCXLIII 

FROM    SAMUEL   COOPER   TO    B.    FRANKLIN 

Boston,  4  January,  1779. 

My  Dear  Sir: — The  Marquis  de  Lafayette  will 
do  me  the  honor  to  be  the  bearer  of  this  letter.  This 
young  nobleman  has  done  honor  to  his  nation,  as 
well  as  to  himself,  by  the  manner  in  which  he  has 
served  these  States.  His  intrepidity  and  alertness 
in  the  field  are  highly  distinguished.  His  prudence 
and  good  temper  are  equally  remarkable.  He  is 
highly  esteemed  and  beloved  in  Congress,  in  the 
army,  and  through  the  States;  and,  though  we  are 
not  without  parties,  and  his  situation  has  been  some- 
times very  delicate,  I  have  never  heard  that  he  has 
made  a  single  enemy.  He  has  gone  through  great 
fatigues,  he  has  faced  uncommon  dangers,  he  has 
bled  for  our  country,  and  leaves  it,  as  far  as  I  am 
able  to  find,  with  universal  applause.  In  short,  his 
whole  conduct,  both  public  and  private,  appears  to 
me  to  have  been  most  happily  adapted  to  serve  the 
great  purpose  of  the  alliance,  and  cement  the  two 
nations.  Justice  obliges  me  to  make  this  mention 
of  one  who  has  done  so  much  for  our  country,  as  well 
as  his  own,  and  from  whose  acquaintance,  with 
which  he  has  honored  me,  I  have  received  the  great- 
est pleasure.  His  acquaintance  with  our  military 
and  political  affairs  will  enable  him  to  give  you  many 
details,  which  cannot  easily  be  conveyed  by  writing. 

You  will  hear,  before  this  reaches  you,  of  what  has 
been  done  in  this  quarter  by  the  armament  under 
the  orders  of  the  Count  d'Estaing:.     The  abilities 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  417 

of  this  commander,  his  bravery,  and  zeal  for  our 
common  cause,  are  indisputably  great.  No  man 
could  have  done  more  in  his  situation  than  he  has 
done.  He  was  unfortunate  in  the  weather  he  met 
with,  which  greatly  delayed  his  passage  to  these  seas, 
gave  an  opportunity  to  the  British  navy  and  army 
to  escape  from  Philadelphia,  snatched  a  victory 
from  him  off  Rhode  Island,  and  put  his  fleet  in  such 
a  condition  that  he  was  indispensably  obliged  to 
leave  that  place  at  a  critical  time,  which  occasioned 
reflections  from  some  that  were  unmerited.  He 
bore  all  with  a  manly  patience  and  uncommon  pru- 
dence. I  admired  his  firmness,  silence,  and  con- 
descension. He  relied  on  the  proofs  he  had  given 
of  attachment  to  our  cause,  and  of  the  capacity  and 
undauntedness  with  which  he  had  prosecuted  the 
service  upon  which  he  was  sent. 

The  account  he  gave  of  the  reasons  for  coming 
to  Boston  with  his  fleet,  before  the  Council  of  this 
State,  not  only  satisfied  that  body,  but  gave  them  a 
high  idea  of  his  merits  as  a  commander.  The  preju- 
dices of  a  few  soon  vanished,  which  had  been  raised 
by  an  honest  but  indiscreet  warmth  in  some  officers 
employed  in  the  expedition  against  Rhode  Island. 
His  officers  imitated  their  commander  in  preserving 
the  best  order  through  the  fleet  during  their  resi- 
dence here;  everybody  admired  the  peaceable,  in- 
offensive, courteous  behavior  of  such  a  number  of 
men ;  and  the  Count  left  us  on  the  4th  of  November 
last,  with  the  strongest  impressions  of  esteem  and 
affection  for  him,  of  the  friendship  of  his  court  and 
nation  for  us,  and  of  the  superior  order  and  civility 


41 8  The  Works  of  [1779 

prevailing  in  the  French  forces.  He  is  gone,  it  is 
conjectured  (for  nobody  pretends  to  know),  for  the 
West  Indies.  We  hope,  if  the  war  continues,  to  see 
him  in  the  spring,  and  that  Canada  will  be  wrested 
from  the  British  power.  This  may  be  easily  done 
by  a  joint  invasion  by  sea  and  land  provided  our 
finances  will  allow  us  to  support  an  army;  but  the 
depreciation  of  our  money  is  so  great  that  I  fear  our 
inability  to  do  this,  unless  we  have  assistance,  and 
can  procure  loans  from  abroad.  If  such  a  plan  of 
operations  is  adopted,  France  must  give  us  the  most 
unequivocal  assurances  that  she  means  not  to  resume 
the  government  of  Canada,  but  to  incorporate  it  with 
the  United  States.  This  is  her  true  interest,  and  is 
so  agreeable  to  the  principles  and  basis  of  the  alliance, 
that  I  have  not  the  least  doubt  she  intends  it,  and 
it  will  only  be  needful  to  make  known  her  intentions 
in  the  most  explicit  manner,  at  least  to  us.' 

It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  hear  of  the  continu- 
ance of  your  health  and  vivacity.  Though  it  is  long 
since  I  have  had  the  pleasure  of  a  line  from  you,  I 
am  sure  you  do  not  forget  one  who  is,  with  the  great- 
est respect  and  warmest  friendship,  ever  yours, 

Samuel  Cooper. 

I  Concerning  this  proposed  Canada  expedition,  see  Sparks 's  Life  of 
Washington,  2d  ed.,  p.  287. 


I779J  Benjamin  Franklin  4^9 

DCCXLIV 

TO    RALPH    IZARD  " 

Passy,  4  January,  1779. 

SjR._Your    intimation    that    you    expect    more 
money  from  us  obliges  us  to  expose  to  you  our  cir- 
cumstances.    Upon  the  supposition  that  Congress 
had  borrowed  in  America  but  five  milHons  of  dollars, 
or  twenty-five  millions  of  livres,  and  relying  on  the  re- 
mittances intended  to  be  sent  to  us,  for  answering 
other  demands,  we  gave  expectations  that  we  should 
be  able  to  pay  here  the  interest  of  that  sum  as  a 
means  of  supporting  the  credit  of  the  currency.     The 
Congress  have  borrowed  near  twice  that  sum,  and  are 
now  actually  drawing  on  us  for  the  interest,  the  bills 
appearing  here  daily  for  acceptance.     Their  distress 
for  money  in  America  has  been  so  great  from  the 
enormous  expense  of  the  war,  that  they  have  also 
been  induced  to  draw  on  us  for  very  large  sums,  to 
stop  other  pressing  demands ;  and  they  have  not  been 
able  to  purchase  remittances  for  us  to  the  extent  they 
proposed;    and  of  what  they  have  sent,  much  has 
been  taken  or  treacherously  carried  into  England, 
only  two  small  cargoes  of  tobacco  having  arrived, 
and  they  are  long  since  mortgaged  to  the  Farmers 
General,  so  that  they  produce  us  nothing,  but  leave 
us  expenses  to  pay. 

The  Continental  vessels  of  war  which  come  to 

I  This  letter  was  written  by  Dr.  Franklin,  but  intended  to  be  signed 
by  the  Commissioners  jointly.  On  the  back  of  the  manuscript  is  the 
following  endorsement:  "Rough  draft  of  a  proposed  letter  m  answer 
to  one  from  Mr.  Izard  to  the  Commissioners,  dated  January  2d.' 


420  The  Works  of  [1779 

France  have  likewise  required  great  sums  of  us  to 
furnish  or  refit  them  and  supply  the  men  with  neces- 
saries. The  prisoners,  too,  who  escape  from  Eng- 
land, claim  a  very  expensive  assistance  from  us,  and 
are  much  dissatisfied  with  the  scanty  allowance  we 
are  able  to  afford  them.  The  interest  bills  above 
mentioned,  of  the  drawing  of  which  we  have  received 
notice,  amount  to  two  millions  and  a  half,  and  we 
have  not  a  fifth  part  of  the  sum  in  our  banker's  hands 
to  answer  them;  and  large  orders  to  us  from  Con- 
gress for  supplies  of  clothing,  arms,  and  ammunition 
remain  uncomplied  with  for  want  of  money. 

In  this  situation  of  our  affairs,  we  hope  you  will 
not  insist  on  our  giving  you  a  farther  credit  with  our 
banker,  with  whom  we  are  daily  in  danger  of  having 
no  farther  credit  ourselves.  It  is  not  a  year  since 
you  received  from  us  the  sum  of  two  thousand 
guineas,  which  you  thought  necessary  on  account  of 
your  being  to  set  out  immediately  for  Florence.  You 
have  not  incurred  the  expense  of  that  journey.  You 
are  a  gentleman  of  fortune.  You  did  not  come  to 
France  with  any  dependence  on  being  maintained 
here  with  your  family  at  the  expense  of  the  United 
States,  in  the  time  of  their  distress,  and  without  ren- 
dering them  the  equivalent  service  they  expected. 

On  all  these  considerations  we  should  rather  hope 
that  you  would  be  willing  to  reimburse  us  the  sum  we 
have  advanced  to  you,  if  it  may  be  done  with  any 
possible  convenience  to  your  affairs.  Such  a  supply 
would  at  least  enable  us  to  relieve  more  liberally  our 
unfortunate  countrymen,  who  have  long  been  prison- 
ers, stripped  of  every  thing,  of  whom  we  daily  expect 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  421 

to  have  near  three  hundred  upon  our  hands  by  the 
exchange.     We  have  the  honor  to  be,  etc. 


DCCXLV 

TO   THE    COMMITTEE    ON    FOREIGN    AFFAIRS 

Passy,  15  January,  1779. 

Gentlemen: — It  being  undoubtedly  our  duty  to 
give  the  clearest  account  to  Congress  of  the  disburse- 
ment of  their  money  intrusted  to  us,  and  as  I  appre- 
hend our  advancing  to  Mr.  William  Lee  and  Mr. 
Ralph  Izard  so  large  a  sum  as  four  thousand  guineas 
at  once,  in  February,  1778,  without  any  order  of 
Congress  for  so  doing,  and  at  a  time  when  money 
was  much  wanted  to  fulfil  their  actual  orders  in  the 
purchase  of  arms,  etc.,  may  subject  the  Commis- 
sioners to  censure,  I  think  it  right  and  necessary  to 
relate  the  circumstances,  that  they  may  be  communi- 
cated to  our  constituents. 

Those  gentlemen  then,  having  represented  to  Mr. 
Deane,  Mr.  Lee,  and  myself,  that,  though  they  had 
received  commissions  to  go  and  reside  at  the  courts 
of  Berlin,  Vienna,  and  Florence,  no  provision  had 
arrived  for  their  subsistence ;  that  they  were  nearly 
ready  to  set  out  for  their  respective  destinations,  but 
wanted  money  to  defray  the  expense  of  their  jour- 
neys, for  which  they  therefore  requested  us  to  furnish 
them  with  a  credit  on  our  banker.  The  Commis- 
sioners, fearing  that  the  public  interests  might  pos- 
sibly suffer  if  those  journeys  were  delayed  till  the 


422  The  Works  of 


.1779 


necessary  provision  or  orders  should  arrive  from 
America,  thought  they  might  be  justified  in  giving 
such  a  credit  for  the  expense  of  those  journeys,  and 
Mr.  Lee,  being  asked  what  sum  he  imagined  would 
be  necessary,  said,  justly,  that  the  expenses  of  his 
journey  could  not  be  exactly  ascertained  beforehand, 
but,  if  he  were  empowered  to  draw  on  our  banker, 
he  should  certainly  only  take  from  time  to  time 
what  was  absolutely  necessary,  and  therefore  it  was 
of  little  importance  for  what  sum  the  credit  should 
be  ordered;  it  would  however  look  handsome  and 
confidential  if  the  sum  were  two  thousand  louis. 
We  thereupon,  confiding  that  no  more  of  this  money 
would  be  taken  out  of  our  disposition  than  the  ex- 
penses of  the  journeys  as  they  should  accrue,  did 
frankly  but  unwarily  give  the  orders. 

Mr.  Deane  and  myself  were,  however,  soon  sur- 
prised with  the  intelligence  that  the  gentleman  had 
gone  directly  to  the  banker,  and  by  virtue  of  these 
orders  had  taken  out  of  our  account  the  whole  sum 
mentioned,  and  carried  it  to  their  own;  leaving  the 
money  indeed  in  his  hands,  but  requiring  his  receipt 
for  it  as  their  money,  for  which  he  was  to  be  account- 
able to  them  only. 

This  enormous  sum  having  been  received  by  those 
gentlemen  not  above  ten  months,  I  was  still  more  sur- 
prised when  the  following  letters  were  communicated 
to  me  by  my  present  colleagues,  requiring  more 
money.  My  colleague,  Mr.  Adams,  was  at  first  as 
much  surprised  as  myself  [Incomplete.] 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  423 

DCCXLVI 

FROM    DAVID    HARTLEY 

London,  23  January,  1779. 

My  Dear  Friend: — You  know  my  constant  and 
earnest  desire  for  peace.  You  are  so  fully  possessed 
of  my  principles  upon  these  subjects,  that  you  can- 
not doubt  but  that  the  sentiments  expressed  in  the 
fourth  letter  on  the  American  war,  lately  written 
by  a  Member  of  Parliament  in  this  country  to  his 
constituents,  do  perfectly  accord  with  mine.' 

In  your  letter  of  26th  October  last,  you  seem  to 
express  that  a  visit  from  a  friend  would  not  be  un- 
welcome, if  that  friend  were  in  the  character  of 
plenipotentiary,  to  treat  of  a  sincere  peace  between 
all  parties.  You  must  know  from  the  course  of  pub- 
lic transactions  in  England,  that  the  alhance  between 
France  and  America  is  a  great  stumbling-block. 
Whatever  engagements  America  may  have  entered 
into,  they  will  at  least  by  consent  of  parties  be  re- 
linquished for  the  purpose  of  removing  so  material 
an  obstacle  to  any  general  treaty  of  free  and  un- 
engaged parties.  If  the  parties  could  meet  for  the 
sake  of  peace,  upon  free  and  open  ground,  I  should 
think  that  a  very  fair  proposition  to  be  offered  to  the 
people  of  England,  and  an  equitable  proposition  in 
itself.  The  universal  destruction  attending  war  to 
all  parties  ought  to  be  a  motive  for  the  restoration 
of  peace,  superseding  all  minute  considerations. 
Knowing  the  sincerity  of  your  desire  for  peace, 
I   throw  out   to  you   the   cursory  thoughts  which 

1  The  letters  were  written  by  Mr.  Hartley,  and  published  by  Almon. 


424  The  Works  of  [1779 

present  themselves  to  me,  to  take  the  chance  of  start- 
ing any  idea  which  may  lead  to  that  blessed  end. 
I  am  yours  affectionately, 

G.  B. 


DCCXLVII 


TO    DAVID    HARTLEY 


Passy,  25  January,  1779. 

Dear  Sir: — I  a  long  time  believed  that  your  gov- 
ernment were  in  earnest  in  agreeing  to  an  exchange 
of  prisoners.  I  begin  now  to  think  I  was  mistaken. 
It  seems  they  cannot  give  up  the  pleasing  idea  of 
having  at  the  end  of  the  war  one  thousand  Americans 
to  hang  for  high  treason.  You  were  also  long  of 
opinion  that  the  animosity  against  America  was  not 
national  or  general;  but  having  seen  the  extermin- 
ating proclamation  of  the  Commissioners  approved 
by  kings,  lords,  and  commons,  and  that  not  attended 
by  any  marks  of  popular  disapprobation,  perhaps  you 
too  begin  to  think  you  are  mistaken.  I  thank  you 
for  writing  those  excellent  letters  to  your  constitu- 
ents. I  like  all  but  your  reflections  against  the  king 
of  France  for  assisting  us.  In  my  mind,  the  coming 
to  the  relief  of  an  innocent  people  under  the  bloody 
oppression  your  ministers  were  exercising  over  them, 
and  exposing  himself  and  nation  to  a  war  on  their 
account,  was  not  only  what  any  prince  had  a  right  to 
do  for  the  sake  of  common  humanity,  but  was  a 
magnanimous  and  heroic  action  that  is  admired  at 
present  by  the  wise  and  good  through  all  Europe, 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  425 

and  will  hand  his  name  down  with  glory  to  posterity. 
Our  different  ways  of  thinking  in  this  particular  will 
not,  however,  diminish  our  private  friendship,  nor 
impair  the  sentiments  of  sincere  esteem  and  respect 
with  which  I  am  ever,  dear  sir, 

Yours,  B.  Franklin. 


DCCXLVIII 

TO    MRS.    MARGARET    STEVENSON 

Passy,  25  January,  1779. 

It  is  always  with  great  pleasure,  when  I  think  of 
our  long-continued  friendship,  which  had  not  the 
least  interruption  in  the  course  of  twenty  years  (some 
of  the  happiest  of  my  life),  that  I  spent  under  your 
roof  and  in  your  company.  If  I  do  not  write  to  you 
as  often  as  I  used  to  do,  when  I  happened  to  be 
absent  from  you,  it  is  owing  partly  to  the  present 
difficulty  of  sure  communication,  and  partly  to  an  ap- 
prehension of  some  inconvenience  that  m}^  correspond- 
ence might  possibly  occasion  you.  Be  assured,  my 
dear  friend,  that  my  regard,  esteem,  and  affection  for 
you  are  not  in  the  least  impaired  or  diminished,  and 
that,  if  circumstances  would  permit,  nothing  would 
afford  me  so  much  satisfaction  as  to  be  with  you  in 
the  same  house,  and  to  experience  again  your  faith- 
ful, tender  care  and  attention  to  my  interests,  health, 
and  comfortable  living,  which  so  long  and  steadily 
attached  me  to  you,  and  which  I  shall  ever  remember 
with  gratitude. 


426  The  Works  of  [1779 

I  thought  I  had  mentioned  to  you  before  (and  I 
beHeve  I  did,  though  my  letter  may  have  miscarried), 
that  I  had  received  the  white  cloth  suit,  the  sword, 
and  the  saddle  for  Temple,  all  in  good  order.  I  men- 
tion them  now  again,  because  Polly  tells  me  you  had 
not  heard  of  their  arrival.  I  wore  the  clothes  a  good 
deal  last  summer.  There  is  one  thing  more  that  I 
wish  to  have,  if  you  should  meet  with  an  opportunity 
of  sending  it.  I  mean  the  copper  pot  lined  with  sil- 
ver, to  roast  fowls  in  by  means  of  a  heater.  I  should 
also  be  glad  of  the  piece  of  elephant's  tooth.  It  is 
old  ivory,  perhaps  of  the  time  before  the  flood,  and 
would  be  a  rarity  to  some  friends  here.  But  I  doubt 
you  will  not  be  able  to  send  them. 

I  rejoice  to  learn  that  your  health  is  established, 
and  that  you  live  pleasantly  in  a  country  town,  with 
agreeable  neighbors,  and  have  your  dear  children 
about  you.  My  love  to  every  one  of  them.  I  long 
to  see  them  and  you;  but  the  times  do  not  permit 
me  the  hope  of  it.  Why  do  you  never  write  to  me  ? 
I  used  to  love  to  read  your  letters,  and  I  regret  your 
long  silence.  They  were  seasoned  with  good-sense 
and  friendship,  and  even  your  speUing  pleased  me. 
Polly  knows  I  think  the  worst  spelling  the  best.  I 
do  not  write  to  her  by  this  conveyance.  You  will  let 
her  know  that  I  acknowledge  the  receipt  of  her  pleas- 
ing letter,  dated  the  nth  instant.  I  shall  now  only 
observe  to  you  upon  it,  that  I  know  not  how  the  pat- 
ent can  be  taken  out  in  Jacob's  name.  I  am  sure  he 
had  no  claim  to  it,  for  when  I  first  proposed  to  him 
the  making  of  such  wheels  at  Mr.  Viny's,  in  the 
country,  he  objected  to  it  as  impracticable.     But  Mr. 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  427 

Viny,  who  seized  the  thought  and  carried  it  into  exe- 
cution, had  certainly  the  best  right  to  the  patent.  I 
wish  he  would  send  me  a  good  drawing,  with  the  pro- 
portions, of  the  little  carriage  with  horses,  which  his 
children  came  once  in  to  see  us.  How  do  they  all 
do,  and  particularly  my  little  patient  Bessum? 

Since  my  coming  here  I  have  been  told  that  Mr. 
Henley,  the  linen-draper,  had  said,  on  my  going  to 
America,  that  I  had  gone  away  in  his  debt.  I  can 
hardly  believe  it.  Let  me  know  if  you  have  heard 
such  a  thing,  and  what  is  the  meaning  of  it.  I 
thought  he  had  been  fully  paid,  and  still  think  so,  and 
shall  till  I  am  assured  of  the  contrary.  Let  me  know, 
at  the  same  time,  how  my  account  stands  with  you. 

You  wish  to  know  how  I  live.  It  is  in  a  fine  house, 
situated  in  a  neat  village,  on  high  ground,  half  a  mile  ' 
from  Paris,  with  a  large  garden  to  walk  in.  I  have 
abundance  of  acquaintance,  dine  abroad  six  days  in 
seven.  Sundays  I  reserve  to  dine  at  home,  with  such 
Americans  as  pass  this  way,  and  I  then  have  my 
grandson  Ben,  with  some  other  American  children 
from  the  school. 

If  being  treated  with  all  the  politeness  of  France, 
and  the  apparent  respect  and  esteem  of  all  ranks, 
from  the  highest  to  the  lowest,  can  make  a  man 
happy,  I  ought  to  be  so.  Indeed,  I  have  nothing  to 
complain  of,  but  a  Httle  too  much  business,  and  the 
want  of  that  order  and  economy  in  my  family,  which 
reigned  in  it  when  under  your  prudent  direction.  My 
paper  gives  me  only  room  to  add  that  I  am  ever 
yours  most  affectionately,  B.  Franklin. 

^  Passy  is  now  a  part  of  the  city  of  Paris. 


428  The  Works  of  [1779 

DCCXLIX 

TO    MESSRS.    LLOYD    AND    OTHERS 

Passy,  26  January,  1779. 

Gentlemen: — We  had  yesterday  the  honor  of 
your  letter  of  the  21st  of  this  month. 

You  desire  to  know  what  port  or  ports  is  or  are 
made  free,  pursuant  to  the  treaty.  We  beheve  that 
none  have  as  yet  been  determined  on.  At  present 
all  the  ports  of  France  are  open  to  American  ves- 
sels of  all  denominations,  and  we  are  at  present 
rather  doubtful  whether  it  would  be  politic  in  us  to 
apply  to  have  any  distinction  made.  If  the  appoint- 
ment of  free  ports  would  reheve  us  from  the  payment 
of  duties  of  import  or  export,  we  should  apply  im- 
mediately. But  as  we  apprehend  this  advantage 
would  not  be  the  consequence,  the  limits  of  the  free 
ports  would  be  prescribed,  and  the  same  duties  must 
be  paid  upon  removing  goods  within  or  without  those 
limits  as  are  now  paid  upon  imports  or  exports. 
Goods,  however,  might  be  brought  into  such  free 
ports  from  abroad,  and  there  landed  and  stored  for  a 
time,  and  then  exported  without  paying  duties ;  but 
whether  this  would  be  any  great  advantage  to  our 
trade  at  present,  you  are  better  judges  than  we.  We 
shall  be  glad  of  your  advice  upon  this  head,  and  if 
you  think  of  any  advantages  of  considerable  moment 
that  would  arise,  we  shall  be  always  ready  to  apply 
for  such  an  appointment.  We  are  sorry  it  is  not  in 
our  power  to  give  you  any  acceptable  information 
respecting  the  eighth  article  of  the  treaty,  which 
relates  to  the  Barbary  corsairs.     All  we  can  say  is 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  429 

that  we  have  applied  to  the  ministry  upon  this  head 
some  months  ago,  and  received  satisfactory  expres- 
sions of  the  dispositions  of  this  government  to  do 
every  thing  that  is  stipulated  in  that  article  of  the 
treaty.  But  some  things  remain  to  be  determined 
by  Congress,  to  whom  we  have  written  on  the  sub- 
ject, and  we  must  necessarily  await  their  instructions. 

There  are  two  inquiries  to  be  made,  viz. :  which  of 
all  the  nations  who  now  trade  with  France  is  the 
most  favored?  and  what  duties  are  paid  by  that 
nation?  These  duties,  and  these  only,  we  suppose, 
we  are  to  pay ;  and  as  soon  as  circumstances  will  per- 
mit,— two  of  us  having  been  for  a  fortnight  very  ill, 
and  one  of  us  continuing  so, — we  shall  apply  to  the 
ministry  for  an  eclaircissement  upon  this  head,  which 
we  shall  endeavor  to  communicate  to  you  as  soon  as 
we  shall  obtain  it. 

We  have  received  an  answer  to  our  last  application 
for  a  convoy  from  their  excellencies,  the  Count  de 
Vergennes  and  M.  de  Sartine.  But  the  answers 
convinced  us  that  M.  de  Sartine  was  under  some 
misinformation  or  misunderstanding  relative  to  the 
business,  which  obliged  us  to  write  again.  As  soon 
as  we  shall  be  honored  with  an  answer,  we  will  com- 
municate the  result  of  it  to  you. 

For  the  Commissioners,  by  B.  Franklin. ' 

^  This  was  the  last  important  letter  written  by  Franklin  as  Com- 
missioner. He  was  appointed  Minister  Plenipotentiary  on  the  14th 
of  September.  1778,  and  received  his  credentials  the  second  week  in 
February. 


430  The  Works  of  [1779 

DCCL 

TO    DAVID    HARTLEY 

Passy,  3  February,  1779. 

Dear  Sir: — I  have  just  received  your  favor  of  the 
23d  past,  in  v^hich  you  mention  "that  the  alliance 
between  France  and  America  is  the  great  stumbling- 
block  in  the  way  of  making  peace ' ' ;  and  you  go  on 
to  observe  that  "whatever  engagements  America 
may  have  entered  into  they  may  at  least  by  consent 
of  parties  be  relinquished  for  the  purpose  of  removing 
so  material  an  obstacle  to  any  general  treaty  of  free 
and  imengaged  parties,"  adding  that  "if  the  parties 
could  meet  for  the  sake  of  peace  upon  free  and  open 
ground  you  should  think  that  sl  very  fair  proposition 
to  be  offered  to  the  people  of  England,  and  an  equit- 
able proposition  in  itself." 

The  long,  steady,  and  kind  regard  you  have  shown 
for  the  welfare  of  America  by  the  whole  tenor  of 
your  conduct  in  Parliament,  satisfies  me  that  this 
proposition  never  took  its  rise  with  you,  but  has  been 
suggested  from  some  other  quarter,  and  that  your  ex- 
cess of  humanity,  your  love  of  peace,  and  your  fear 
for  us,  that  the  destruction  we  are  threatened  with 
will  certainly  be  effected,  have  thrown  a  mist  before 
your  eyes,  which  hindered  you  from  seeing  the  ma- 
lignity and  mischief  of  it.  We  know  that  your  king 
hates  Whigs  and  Presbyterians;  that  he  thirsts  for 
our  blood,  of  which  he  has  already  drunk  large 
draughts ;  that  weak  and  unprincipled  ministers  are 
ready  to  execute  the  wickedest  of  his  orders,  and  his 
venal  Parliament  equally  ready  to  vote  them  just. 


17791  Benjamin  Franklin  43 1 

Not  the  smallest  appearance  of  a  reason  can  be  im- 
agined capable  of  inducing  us  to  think  of  relinquish- 
ing a  solid  alliance  with  one  of  the  most  amiable  as 
well  as  most  powerful  princes  of  Europe  for  the 
expectation  of  unknown  terms  of  peace,  to  be  after- 
wards offered  to  us  by  such  a  government,  a  govern- 
ment that  has  already  shamefully  broken  all  the 
compacts  it  ever  made  with  us.  This  is  worse  than 
advising  us  to  drop  the  substance  for  the  shadow. 
The  dog,  after  he  found  his  mistake,  might  possibly 
have  recovered  his  mutton ;  but  we  could  never  hope 
to  be  trusted  again  by  France,  or  indeed  by  any  other 
nation  under  heaven.  Nor  does  there  appear  any 
more  necessity  for  dissolving  an  alliance  with  France 
before  you  can  treat  with  us,  than  there  would  be  of 
dissolving  your  alliance  with  Holland,  or  your  union 
with  Scotland,  before  we  could  treat  with  you.  Ours 
is,  therefore,  no  material  obstacle  to  a  treaty,  as  you 
suppose  it  to  be.  Had  Lord  North  been  the  author 
of  such  a  proposition,  all  the  world  would  have  said 
it  was  insidious,  and  meant  only  to  deceive  and 
divide  us  from  our  friends,  and  then  to  ruin  us,  sup- 
posing our  fears  might  be  so  strong  as  to  procure  an 
acceptance  of  it.  But,  thanks  to  God,  that  is  not  the 
case.  We  have  long  since  settled  all  the  account  in 
our  own  minds.  We  know  the  worst  you  can  do  to 
us,  if  you  have  your  wish,  is  to  confiscate  our  estates 
and  take  our  lives,  to  rob  and  murder  us;  and  this 
you  have  seen  we  are  ready  to  hazard  rather  than 
come  again  under  your  detested  government. 

You  must  observe,  my  dear  friend,  that  I  am  a  lit- 
tle warm.     Excuse  me      It  is  over.     Only  let  me 


432 


The  Works  of  [1779 


counsel  you  not  to  think  of  being  sent  hither  on  so 
fruitless  an  errand  as  that  of  making  such  a  propo- 
sition. 

It  puts  me  in  mind  of  the  comic  farce  entitled  God- 
Send;  or,  The  Wreckers.  You  may  have  forgotten 
but  I  will  endeavor  to  amuse  you  by  recollecting  a 

little  of  it. 

Scene. — Mount's  Bay. 

[A  ship  riding  at  anchor  in  a  great  storm.  A  lee 
shore  full  of  rocks,  and  lined  with  people,  furnished 
with  axes  and  carriages  to  cut  up  wrecks,  knock  the 
sailors  on  the  head,  and  carry  off  the  plunder,  accord- 
ing to  custom. '\ 

1st  Wrecker.  This  ship  rides  it  out  longer  than  I 
expected ;  she  must  have  good  ground  tackle. 

2d  Wrecker.  We  had  better  send  out  a  boat  to 
her,  and  persuade  her  to  take  a  pilot,  who  can  after- 
wards run  her  ashore,  where  we  can  best  come  at  her. 

Sd  Wrecker.  I  doubt  whether  the  boat  can  live 
in  this  sea;  but  if  there  are  any  brave  fellows  willing 
to  hazard  themselves  for  the  good  of  the  public,  and 
a  double  share,  let  them  say  ay. 

Several  Wreckers.     I,  I,  I,  I. 

[The  boat  goes  off,  and  comes  under  the  ship's  stern.] 

Spokesman.     So  ho,  the  ship,  ahoa! 

Captain.     Hulloa! 

Sp.     Would  you  have  a  pilot  ? 

Capt.     No,  no! 

Sp.     It  blows  hard,  and  you  are  in  danger. 

Capt.     I  know  it. 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  433 

Sp.  Will  you  buy  a  better  cable?  We  have  one 
in  the  boat  here. 

Capt.     What  do  you  ask  for  it  ? 

Sp.  Cut  that  you  have,  and  then  we  '11  talk  about 
the  price  of  this. 

Capt.  I  shall  do  no  such  foolish  thing.  I  have 
lived  in  your  parish  formerly,  and  know  the  heads 
of  ye  too  well  to  trust  ye;  keep  off  from  my  cable 
there;  I  see  you  have  a  mind  to  cut  it  yourselves. 
If  you  go  any  nearer  to  it  I  11  fire  into  you  and  sink 
you. 

Sp.  It  is  a  damned  rotten  French  cable,  and  will 
part  of  itself  in  half  an  hour.  Where  will  you  be 
then,  Captain  ?     You  had  better  take  our  offer. 

Capt.  You  offer  nothing,  you  rogues,  but  treach- 
ery and  mischief.  My  cable  is  good  and  strong,  and 
will  hold  long  enough  to  balk  all  your  projects. 

Sp.  You  talk  unkindly,  Captain,  to  people  who 
came  here  only  for  your  good. 

Capt.  I  know  you  came  for  all  our  goods,  but,  by 
God's  help,  you  shall  have  none  of  them;  you  shall 
not  serve  us  as  you  did  the  Indiamen. 

Sp.  Come,  my  lads,  let  's  be  gone.  This  fellow 
is  not  so  great  a  fool  as  we  took  him  to  be. 


DCCLI 

TO    JONATHAN    WILLIAMS,    JR. 

Passy,  13  February,  1779. 

Dear  Uncle  : — I  have  the  pleasure  of  acquainting 
you  that  the  Congress  have  been  pleased  to  honor 

YOL.   VU. 28. 


434  The  Works  of  [1779 

me  with  the  sole  appointment  to  be  their  Minister 
Plenipotentiary  at  this  court,  and  I  have  just  received 
my  credentials.  This  mark  of  public  confidence  is 
the  more  agreeable  to  me  as  it  was  not  obtained  by 
any  solicitation  or  intrigue  on  my  part,  nor  have  I 
ever  written  a  syllable  to  any  person,  in  or  out  of 
Congress,  magnifying  my  own  services  or  diminish- 
ing those  of  others. 

William  Greene,  Esq.,  present  Governor  of  the 
State  of  Rhode  Island,  has  sent  me  some  bills  of  ex- 
change, amounting  to  1,080  livres,  which  he  desires 
may  be  laid  out  in  the  following  articles:  one  piece 
dark  calico;  one  piece  bedtick;  best  silk  handker- 
chiefs and  linen  do;  Hollands,  cambrics,  muslins, 
sewing  silk,  and  one  box  of  window  glass,  seven 
inches  by  nine.  I  send  you  the  commission,  and  de- 
sire you  to  forward  the  things  by  the  first  good  op- 
portimity,  drawing  upon  me  for  the  money. 

I  am  told  you  have  laid  aside  your  thoughts  of 
going  to  America  for  the  present,  so  that  you  will 
not  have  the  opportunity  you  wished  for  of  settling 
your  accounts  there.  No  resolution  has  been  yet 
taken  by  the  Commissioners  here  relating  to  your 
proposition  of  settling  them  by  arbitration  at  Nantes ; 
and  though  I  could  now  perhaps  do  by  myself  what 
is  necessary  to  finish  the  affairs  in  that  way,  yet  as 
the  transactions  were  in  their  time,  it  seems  to  me 
most  proper  that  they  should  consent  to  it." 
I  am  ever  your  affectionate  cousin, 

B.  Franklin. 

»  This  Jonathan  Williams  was  the  son  of  Grace  Harris,  a  niece  of  Dr. 
Franklin,  and  of  the  Jonathan  Williams  who  presided  at  the  meeting 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  435 

DCCLII 

TO    ARTHUR   LEE 

Passy,  1 8  February,  1779. 

Sir: — I  beg  you  will  be  pleased  to  send  me  by  the 
bearer  all  the  public  papers  in  yotir  hands  belonging 
to  this  department. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 

in  Faneuil  Hall,  held  immediately  after  the  Boston  massacre  of  March, 
1770,  at  which  resolutions  were  passed  requiring  the  British  armed 
forces  at  Boston  to  be  stationed  in  future  outside  the  city.  The  year 
following,  1 77 1,  Jonathan  WilUams,  Jr.,  then  about  nineteen  years  of 
age,  was  placed  with  his  brother  Josiah  for  a  time  under  the  care  of 
Dr.  Franklin,  in  London.  When  Franklin  was  appointed  Commis- 
sioner of  Congress  near  the  coiirt  of  France,  this  young  man,  who  was 
in  some  sort  of  business  at  Nantes,  was  appointed  Commercial  Agent 
of  Congress  in  that  city. 

He  married  Marianne,  a  daughter  of  WiUiam  Alexander,  who  was 
bom  in  Scotland  in  1730,  and  who  died  and  was  buried  in  Woodford 
Co.,  Ky.,  on  the  farm  of  his  son,  the  late  Robert  Alexander.  Mrs. 
WilHams'  brother,  afterwards  Sir  William  Alexander,  was  appointed 
Lord  Chief  Baron  of  England,  January  9,  1824,  and  thereupon  made 
Privy  Councillor  and  knighted.  In  January,  1831,  he  resigned  in 
favor  of  Lord  Lyndhurst,  died  Jtme  29,  1842,  and  was  buried  in  the 
chapel  of  Roslin  Castle. 

Robert  Alexander,  a  brother  of  Mrs.  Williams,  went  over  from 
England  to  Paris  in  1782  in  charge  of  M.  Monduit  as  his  tutor,  and 
lived  with  Dr.  Franklin  at  Passy  in  1783  and  1784.  A  daughter  of  his 
sister  Isabella  became  the  mother  of  the  Earl  of  Bathtu-st. 

Mr.  Williams  had  a  sister  who  became  Mrs.  Thomas  Biddle,  and  the 
mother  of  Clement,  Thomas  A.,  and  Alexander  Biddle,  all  of  Phila- 
delphia. 

William  Alexander,  who  was  buried  in  Kentucky,  was  grandfather 
of  Mrs.  General  Francis  P.  Blair  and  of  Apoline  Alexander,  who  mar- 
ried Mr.  Thompson  Hankey,  of  London,  and  at  one  time  President  of 
the  Bank  of  England. 

Both  as  a  relative  and  as  an  agent  of  Dr.  Franklin's  selection,  young 
Williams  naturally  became  an  object  of  aversion  to  Arthur  Lee,  who 
endeavored  to  cast  suspicion  upon  his  accotmts.  It  is  to  these  com- 
plaints that  allusion  is  here  made. — Editor. 


43^  The  Works  of  [1779 

DCCLIII 

TO    M.    DUMAS 

Passy,  19  February,  1779. 

Dear  Sir: — Since  mine  of  the  nth  inst.  I  have 
received  an  appointment  from  Congress  to  be  their 
sole  Minister  Plenipotentiary  at  this  court,  my  former 
colleagues  having,  or  being  likely  to  have,  other 
destinations. 

I  have  had  frequent  conversations  with  your  friend 
concerning  a  loan  in  Holland.  A  fit  of  the  gout  has 
interrupted  them  these  two  days,  but  his  demands 
appearing  to  be  beyond  my  powers,  I  have  not  agreed 
to  them,  and  I  question  whether  we  can  agree.  I 
fancy  he  has  had  some  information  of  the  purport  of 
some  imprudent  letter  you  know  of,  and  that  he 
thinks  our  necessities  greater  than  they  are.  I  begin 
to  think  it  best  to  be  obliged  to  one  generous  friend, 
and  to  take  the  little  aids  we  want  from  France  only. 

The  Marquis  de  Lafayette  is  arrived,  covered  with 
laurels.  He  and  his  suite  speak  very  handsomely  of 
the  Americans  and  of  the  present  condition  of  affairs. 
All  our  letters  from  different  persons  in  different 
bodies,  the  Congress,  the  army,  the  government  of 
separate  States,  are  full  of  his  praises.  By  his  brav- 
ery and  good  conduct  he  appears  to  have  gained  the 
esteem  and  the  affection  of  that  whole  continent. 

I  am  with  sincere  regard,  etc. 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  437 

DCCLIV 

FROM    ARTHUR    LEE 

Chaillot,  21  February,  1779. 

Sir: — Your  grandson  delivered  to  me,  between 
10  and  12  o'clock  on  the  19th,  your  letter  dated  the 
1 8th,  in  which  you  desire  I  will  send  by  the  bearer 
all  the  papers  belonging  to  this  department. 

I  have  no  papers  belonging  to  the  department  of 
Minister  Plenipotentiary  at  the  Court  of  Versailles. 
But  if  you  mean,  sir,  the  papers  relating  to  the  trans- 
actions of  our  late  joint  Commission,  I  am  yet  to 
learn  and  cannot  conceive  on  what  reason  or  author- 
ity any  one  of  those  who  were  formerly  in  that  Com- 
mission can  claim  or  demand  possession  of  all  the 
papers  evidencing  their  transactions,  in  which,  if 
they  should  appear  to  have  been  equally  concerned, 
they  are  equally  responsible. 

Of  these  papers  Mr.  Deane,  by  his  own  account, 
has  taken  and  secured  such  as  he  chose.  The  rest,  a 
very  few  excepted,  you  have.  Many  of  these  I  have 
never  even  seen,  but  have  been  favored  with  copies, 
Of  the  few  originals  in  my  possession  there  are,  I 
know,  duphcates  of  the  most  part  at  Passy,  because 
it  was  for  that  reason  only  that  I  took  them.  The 
rest  are  necessary  evidence  to  answer  Mr.  Deane 's 
accusations,  which  you  know  to  be  most  base  and 
false  that  ever  the  malice  and  wickedness  of  man 
invented. 

If  it  were  indeed  agreed  that  all  the  papers  be- 
longing to  our  late  Commission  should  be  brought 
together,  numbered,  docketed,  and  deposited  where 


438  The  Works  of  [1779 

the  late  Commissioners,  and  they  only,  might  have 
access  to  them,  I  would  very  readily  contribute  the 
few  I  have.  But  on  no  other  terms  can  I  part  with 
them,  and  must  therefore  desire  you  to  command 
me  in  some  other  service. 

Still,  however,  I  am  in  the  judgment  of  Congress, 
and  if  upon  our  mutual  representations,  should  you 
think  it  worth  troubling  them  with  it,  they  should 
be  of  a  different  opinion,  I  shall  abide  by  their  de- 
cision and  obey  their  orders. 

I  hope  your  gout  is  better,  and  have  the  honor  to 
be,  etc.,  Arthur  Lee. 


DCCLV 


TO    DAVID    HARTLEY 

Passy,  22  February,  1779. 

Dear  Sir: — I  received  your  proposition  for  re- 
moving the  stumbling-block.  Your  constant  desire 
of  peace  ought  to  endear  you  to  both  sides ;  but  this 
proposition  seems  to  be  naturally  impracticable.  We 
can  never  think  of  quitting  a  solid  alliance,  made  and 
ratified,  in  order  to  be  in  a  state  for  receiving  un- 
known proposals  of  peace,  which  may  vanish  in  the 
discussion.  The  truth  is,  we  have  no  kind  of  faith 
in  your  government,  which  appears  to  us  as  insidious 
and  deceitful  as  it  is  unjust  and  cruel;  its  character 
is  that  of  the  spider  in  Thomson, 

"  Cunning  and  fierce 
Mixture  abhorred!  " 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  439 

Besides,  we  cannot  see  the  necessity  of  our  relin- 
quishing our  alliance  with  France  in  order  to  a  treaty, 
any  more  than  of  your  relinquishing  yours  with  Hol- 
land.    I  am,  very  affectionately,  yours, 

N.  A.^ 


DCCLVI 

TO    DAVID    HARTLEY 

Passy,  2  2  February,  1779. 

Dear  Sir: — I  received  your  favor  of  Jan.  23d, 
containing  the  answer  you  had  received  from  the 
board  of  sick  and  hurt,  in  which  they  say  they  are 
taking  measures  for  the  immediate  sending  to 
France  the  number  of  Americans  first  proposed  to 
be  changed,  etc.  I  have  heard  nothing  since  of  the 
measures  taken.  The  prisoners  grow  more  and  more 
uneasy  with  us.  They  are  told  that  we  neglect  them. 
We  sent  the  passport  required  in  September  last. 
We  were  soon  after  assured  that  a  transport  was  actu- 
ally taken  up  and  victualled  for  one  hundred  men,  to 
be  sent  to  France  with  so  many  prisoners.  That 
vessel  has  never  appeared.  We  rely'd  on  the  agree- 
ment to  exchange,  and  the  promise  of  doing  it 
speedily.  And  we  advised  our  people  thereupon  not 
to  attempt  escapes.  We  seem  to  have  been  deceived 
or  trifled  with ;  but  perhaps  it  is  rather  owing  to  the 
multiplicity  of  business  the  board  has  on  its  hands, 
and  your  important  occupations  not  permitting  you 

I  North  America.  The  letter  was  written  by  Dr.  Franklin,  but 
signed  with  these  initials. 


440  The  Works  of  [1779 

to  follov/  it  with  such  frequent  soHcitation  as  are 
necessary  to  keep  up  its  attention  to  this  particular 
affair.  I  have  therefore  thought  of  sending  over  a 
person  for  that  purpose,  impowering  him  to  stipulate 
readily,  without  the  delay  attending  letters.  By  this 
means  I  would  save  you  some  of  that  trouble  which 
your  goodness  and  humanity  might  otherwise  con- 
tinue to  lead  you  into.  I  would  only  desire  you  at 
present  to  procure  a  safe  conduct;  his  name  is  Ed- 
ward Bancroft.  He  is  a  gentleman  of  character  and 
honor,  who  will  punctually  observe  such  restrictions 
respecting  his  conduct  when  in  England  as  it  may  be 
thought  reasonable  to  lay  him  under.  If  this  is  or  is 
not  obtainable,  I  beg  you  will  signify  it  by  a  line 
directed  for  him  at  M.  Leveaux's,  merchant  in  Calais; 
and  that  as  soon  as  possible,  that  he  may  not  be 
fruitlessly  detained  long  there  in  expectation  of  it. 


DCCLVII 

TO    COUNT    DE    VERGENNES 

Passy,  25  February,  1779. 

As  the  enemy  seem  determined  upon  another  cam- 
paign, I  beg  leave  to  communicate  and  submit  to 
your  Excellency's  consideration  some  sentiments  of 
Congress  on  certain  operations  in  North  America, 
which  they  conceive  to  be  practicable  and  highly  ad- 
vantageous to  the  interests  both  of  France  and  the 
United  States. 

While  the  English  continue  to  possess  the  ports  of 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  44i 

Halifax,  Rhode  Island,  and  New  York,  they  can— 

1 .  Refit  the  ships  of  war  they  employ  in  those  seas. 

2.  Defend  more  easily  their  fishery,  a  great  nursery 
of  seamen  and  source  of  wealth. 

3.  Interrupt  more  effectually  by  their  cruisers  the 
commerce  between  France  and  America,  which  would 
otherwise  be  so  advantageous  to  both,  and  also  the 
supplies  of  provisions  of  various  kinds,  which  the 
French  islands  might  draw  from  the  continent. 

Without  a  naval  force,  and  in  the  present  situation 
of  their  finances,  the  reduction  of  some  of  those  posts 
must  be  extremely  difficult,  if  not  impossible. 

If  troops  should  be  intended  for  the  defence  of 
your  sugar  islands,  and  the  reduction  of  those  of  the 
enemy  in  the  ensuing  winter,  it  is  supposed  that  a 
part  of  them,  four  or  five  thousand,  convoyed  by  four 
ships  of  the  line  and  a  few  frigates,  might  be  advan- 
tageously employed  this  summer — first,  by  reducing 
(in  conjunction  with  the  troops  of  the  Northern 
States)  Rhode  Island.  This,  it  is  conceived,  will  re- 
quire no  long  time,  and  being  done,  those  States, 
eased  by  that  means,  will  find  themselves  at  liberty  to 
afford  some  aid  of  men,  transports,  provisions,  etc.,  in 
reducing  Halifax,  and  there  is  no  reason  to  doubt 
their  hearty  good- will  to  concur  in  such  an  enterprise, 
the  success  of  which  would  free  their  coasts  from  the 
grievous  restraints  under  which  both  their  commerce 
and  their  fisheries  at  present  labor.  The  inhabitants 
of  Nova  Scotia,  too,  except  those  in  the  town  of 
Halifax,  are  known  to  be  generally  well  affected 
to  the  American  cause,  being  mostly  settlers  who 
formerly  emigrated  from  New  England. 


442  The  Works  of  [1779 

Halifax  being  reduced,  the  small  forts  on  New- 
foundland would  easily  follow,  and  by  this  means  the 
enemy's  fishery,  not  only  for  this  year  would  be 
broken  up,  but  rendered  so  precarious  from  the  inter- 
ruptions by  our  armed  vessels,  or  so  expensive  by  the 
force  necessary  to  defend  their  fishermen,  that  it  must 
soon  be  discouraged,  diminished,  and  at  length  aban- 
doned; their  naval  strength,  of  course,  much  lessened, 
and  that  of  France  in  proportion  augmented. 

It  is  supposed  that  the  troops,  being  after  these 
northern  operations  refreshed  in  New  England,  and 
well  supplied  with  fresh  provisions,  might  proceed  at 
the  approach  of  winter  for  the  West  Indies,  in  good 
health,  and  fit  for  such  service  as  may  be  required 
there. 

The  Congress  had  thoughts  of  attacking  Canada 
this  summer,  and  requesting  some  aid  of  ships  and 
men  for  that  purpose;  but  as  their  paper-money  is 
not  current  in  that  country  where  hard  money  alone 
can  procure  provisions,  which  must  for  want  of  such 
money  be  brought  at  a  vast  expense  from  the  United 
States,  and  being  salted  is  not  so  good  for  the  men, 
it  is  uncertain  whether  that  expedition  will  be  at- 
tempted. There  is,  however,  to  encourage  it,  a  good 
disposition  in  the  inhabitants,  and  if  it  succeeded,  the 
fur  trade  and  a  great  vent  for  her  manufactures 
would  be  opened  to  France;  her  fisheries  would  be 
more  easily  protected;  and  the  frontiers  of  the 
States  being  secured,  their  agriculture  might  again 
be  pursued  in  those  parts,  and  the  general  strength 
employed  where  the  interest  of  the  alliance  might 
require  it. 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  443 

The  Congress  have  made  no  mention  to  me  of 
their  views  with  regard  to  New  York.  Perhaps 
they  hope  that  the  enemy  will  abandon  it,  or  that 
they  shall  be  able  to  reduce  it  by  Gen.  Washington's 
army. 

The  Commissioners  here  had,  before  the  treaty,  the 
honor  of  making,  in  a  memorial  to  your  Excellency, 
the  following  proposition  by  order  of  Congress,  viz. : 
"That  in  case  it  is  agreed  that  the  conquest  of  the 
British  Sugar  Islands  be  attempted,  the  United  States 
shall,  on  timely  notice,  furnish  provisions  for  the  ex- 
pedition to  the  amount  of  two  millions  of  dollars, 
with  six  frigates  manned,  of  not  less  than  twenty-two 
guns  each,  with  such  other  assistance  as  may  be  in 
their  power,  and  as  becoming  good  allies."  As  soon 
as  they  shall  be,  by  the  aids  above-mentioned,  hap- 
pily freed  from  the  embarrassments  occasioned  by  the 
lodgments  of  the  enemy  on  their  coasts,  it  will  be  in 
their  power  to  assist  much  more  amply  in  such  an  ex- 
pedition than  they  can  at  present.  And  I  may  as- 
sure your  Excellency  that  they  will  do  their  utmost 
to  fulfil  the  expectations  given  by  that  memorial, 
though  the  losses  in  their  marine,  and  the  deprecia- 
tion of  their  currency  since,  may  render  it  more 
difficult. 

I  need  not  intimate  to  your  Excellency  the  great 
utility,  if  such  joint  operations  or  expeditions  should 
be  agreed  to,  of  appointing  commanders  of  concili- 
ating tempers,  and,  if  possible,  who  know  and  esteem 
each  other,  and  are  acquainted  with  both  the  lan- 
guages. By  this  means  the  little  misunderstandings 
apt  to  arise  between  troops  of  different  nations  might 


444  The  Works  of  [1779 

be  prevented  or  soon  removed,  and  thence  a  greater 
probabihty  of  success  in  their  enterprises. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  with  the  utmost  esteem  and 
respect,  your  Excellency's  most  obedient  and  most 
humble  servant,  B.  Franklin. 


DCCLVIII 


TO    VERGENNES 


Passy,  25  February,  1779. 

Sir: — I  received  duly  your  Excellency's  most 
obliging  letter  of  the  17th  inst.  I  was  then  so  ill 
with  the  gout  and  a  fever  that  I  could  neither  write 
nor  think  of  any  thing.  This  necessarily  prevented 
my  attending  at  court  to  present  my  letters  of  cre- 
dence on  Tuesday  last  agreeable  to  his  Majesty's 
gracious  permission ;  but  as  the  fit  seems  to  be  going 
off,  I  hope  that  in  two  or  three  days  I  shall  be  able  to 
pay  my  respects  to  your  Excellency  at  Versailles. 

I  thank  your  Excellency  for  your  kind  notice  of  the 
affairs  of  Capt.  McNeill. 

I  have  ordered  the  Alliance  frigate  to  prepare  for 
returning  immediately  to  America,  in  order  to  convoy 
thither  about  fifteen  sail  of  ships  going  from  Nantes. 
As  this  ship  is  said  to  be  an  admirable  swift  sailer,  I 
mention  her  as  an  opportunity  by  which  despatches 
may  probably  go  safely,  if  your  Excellency  should 
think  fit  to  write  by  her. 

With  the  most  perfect  respect  I  have  the  honor  to 
be,  etc.,  B.  Franklin. 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  445 

DCCLIX 

TO    PATRICK    HENRY,    GOVERNOR    OF    VIRGINIA 

Passy,  26  February,  1779. 

Sir: — I  had  the  honor  of  receiving  your  Excel- 
lency's letter  of  March  3,  1778,  by  Captain  Lemaire, 
acquainting  me  that  the  State  of  Virginia  has  desired 
Mr.  William  Lee,  your  agent,  to  procure  a  quantity  of 
arms  and  military  stores,  and  requesting  me  to  assist 
him  with  my  influence  in  obtaining  them  on  credit. 

Being  glad  of  any  opportimity  of  serving  Virginia, 
and  showing  my  regard  to  the  request  of  a  person 
whom  I  so  highly  esteem,  and  Mr.  William  Lee  being 
absent,  I  found  immediately  three  different  mer- 
chants here,  men  of  fortune,  who  were  each  of  them 
willing  to  imdertake  furnishing  the  whole,  and  giving 
the  credit  desired.  But,  Mr.  Arthur  Lee  being  un- 
derstood to  have  taken  the  management  of  the  affair 
into  his  own  hands,  one  of  the  three  soon  after  refused 
to  have  any  thing  to  do  with  it;  a  second,  whose 
letter  to  me  I  enclose,  apprehending  difficulties  from 
Mr.  Lee's  temper,  required  my  name  and  Mr.  Adams' 
to  the  agreement,  which  he  supposes  Mr.  Lee  did  not 
like,  as  his  offer  was  not  accepted.  I  know  not  why 
the  offer  of  the  third  was  not  taken.  I  was  after- 
wards not  at  all  consulted  in  the  business. 

Poor  Lemaire  was  sent  about  Germany  to  find 
goods  and  credit,  which  consumed  a  great  deal  of 
time  to  little  purpose.  Several  of  the  manufacturers 
wrote  to  me  that  they  would  furnish  him  on  my 
promise  of  payment.  I  referred  them  to  Mr.  Lee. 
On  his  return,  Mr.  Lee  and  he  differed  about  his 


446  The  Works  of  [1779 

expenses.  He  complained  frequently  to  me  of  Mr. 
Lee's  not  supplying  him  with  necessary  subsistence, 
and  treating  him  with  great  haughtiness  and  inso- 
lence. I  thought  him  really  attentive  to  his  duty, 
and  not  well  used,  but  I  avoided  meddling  with  his 
affairs,  to  avoid,  if  possible,  being  engaged  in  quar- 
rels myself.  Mr.  Lee,  in  fine,  contracted  with 
Messrs.  Penet  and  Dacosta  to  supply  great  part  of 
the  goods.  They,  too,  have  differed,  and  I  have 
several  letters  of  complaints  from  those  gentlemen; 
but  I  cannot  remedy  them,  for  I  cannot  change  Mr. 
Lee's  temper. 

They  have  offered  to  send  the  things  you  want 
which  he  has  refused,  on  my  account;  but,  not 
knowing  whether  he  has  not  provided  them  else- 
where, or  in  what  light  he  may  look  upon  my  con- 
cerning myself  with  what  he  takes  to  be  his  business, 
I  dare  not  meddle,  being  charged  by  the  Congress  to 
endeavor  at  maintaining  a  good  understanding  with 
their  other  servants,  which  is,  indeed,  a  hard  task 
with  some  of  them.  I  hope,  however,  that  you  will 
at  length  be  provided  with  what  you  want,  which 
I  think  you  might  have  been  long  since,  if  the  affair 
had  not  been  in  hands  which  men  of  honor  and 
candor  here  are  generally  averse  to  dealing  with,  as 
not  caring  to  hazard  quarrels  and  abuses  in  the  set- 
tlement of  their  accounts. 

Our  public  affairs  at  this  court  continue  to  go  on 
well.  Peace  is  soon  expected  in  Germany,  and  we 
hope  Spain  is  now  near  declaring  against  our  ene- 
mies. I  have  the  honor  to  be,  with  great  respect, 
etc.,  B.  Franklin. 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  447 

DCCLX 

TO    VERGENNES 

Passy,  9  March,  1779. 

Sir: — It  is  with  great  reluctance  that  I  give  your 
Excellency  any  further  troubles  on  the  subject  of  a 
loan  of  money.  But  the  bearer,  Mr.  Grand,  who  is 
much  better  acquainted  with  the  nature  and  manner 
of  such  operations  than  I  am,  being  of  opinion  that 
the  sum  we  want  might,  with  your  permission  and 
coimtenance,  be  procured  in  France,  I  beg  you  would 
be  so  good  as  to  hear  him  upon  the  subject  both  of 
the  necessity  of  obtaining  such  a  loan,  and  of  the 
means  of  accomplishing  it. 

I  am  ever,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


DCCLXI 


PASSPORTS  FOR  MORAVIAN  VESSELS,  AND  FOR  CAPTAIN 
COOK  ' 

10  March,  1779. 

To  All  Captains  and  Commanders  of  Vessels  of  War, 
Privateers,  and  Letters  of  Marque,  Belonging  to 
the  United  States  of  America. 

Gentlemen: — The  religious  society  commonly 
called  the  Moravian  Brethren,  having  established  a 

I  In  the  time  of  the  American  war,  the  Moravian  Society  in  England 
sent  annually  a  vessel  to  their  missionaries  on  the  coast  of  Labrador. 
The  Secretary  of  the  Society,  Mr.  Hutton,  appHed  to  Dr.  Franklin, 
then  American  Minister  in  France,  for  a  passport  securing  protection 


448  The  Works  of  [1779 

mission  on  the  coast  of  Labrador,  for  the  conversion 
of  the  savages  there  to  the  Christian  rehgion,  which 
has  already  had  very  good  effects  in  turning  them 
from  their  ancient  practices  of  surprising,  plimdering, 
and  murdering  such  white  people,  Americans  and 
Europeans,  as,  for  the  purpose  of  trade  or  fishery, 
happened  to  come  on  that  coast;  and  persuading 
them  to  lead  a  life  of  honest  industry,  and  to  treat 
strangers  with  humanity  and  kindness;  and,  it  being 
necessary  for  the  support  of  this  useful  mission,  that 
a  small  vessel  should  go  thither  every  year  to  furnish 
supplies  and  necessaries  for  the  missionaries  and 
their  converts;   which  vessel  for  the  present  year  is 

a  of  about  seventy-five  tons,  called  the  , 

whereof  is  master  Captain 

This  is  to  request  you  that,  if  the  said  vessel 
should  happen  to  fall  into  your  hands,  you  would 
not  suffer  her  to  be  plundered,  or  hindered  in  her 
voyage,  but  on  the  contrary  afford  her  any  assistance 

to  that  vessel  against  American  crmsers.  It  was  readily  granted,  and 
renewed  every  year  during  the  war. 

When  Captain  Cook  was  expected  soon  to  return  from  his  last  voyage 
round  the  world,  Dr.  Franklin  issued  a  passport  of  a  similar  kind  for 
protecting  his  vessel,  in  case  it  should  be  met  by  American  cruisers. 
This  act  was  afterwards  properly  recognized.  "When  Cook's  '  Voyage ' 
was  printed,"  says  W.  T.  Franklin,  "the  Admiralty  Board  sent  a  copy 
of  the  work  in  three  volumes  quarto  to  Dr.  Franklin,  accompanied 
with  the  elegant  collection  of  plates,  and  a  very  polite  letter  from  Lord 
Howe,  signifying  that  the  present  was  made  with  the  king's  express 
approbation." 

One  of  the  gold  medals,  struck  by  the  Royal  Society  in  honor  of 
Captain  Cook,  was  likewise  sent  to  Dr.  Franklin.  In  the  Life  of  Cap- 
tain Cook,  by  Dr.  Kippis,  the  author  stated  that  Congress  disapproved 
and  reversed  the  orders  of  Dr.  Franklin ;  but  Dr.  Kippis  became  after- 
wards convinced  of  the  error  of  this  statement,  and  publicly  acknow- 
ledged it. — Sparks. 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  449 

she  may  stand  in  need  of;  wherein  I  am  confident 
your  conduct  will  be  approved  by  the  Congress  and 
your  owners. 

Given  at  Passy,  near  Paris,  this day  of 

B.  Franklin. 
Minister  Plenipotentiary  from  the  United  States 
of  America  at  the  Court  of  France. 

P.  S. — The  same  request  is  respectfully  made  to 
the  commanders  of  armed  vessels  belonging  to  France 
and  Spain,  friends  of  the  said  United  States. 

B.  Franklin. 


To  All  Captains  and  Commanders  of  Armed  Ships 
Acting  by  Commission  from  the  Congress  of  the 
United  States  of  America,  now  in  War  with 
Great  Britain. 

Gentlemen  : — A  ship  having  been  fitted  out  from 
England  before  the  commencement  of  this  war,  to 
make  discoveries  of  new  coimtries  in  unknown  seas, 
under  the  conduct  of  that  most  celebrated  navi- 
gator. Captain  Cook ;  an  undertaking  truly  laudable 
in  itself,  as  the  increase  of  geographical  knowledge 
facilitates  the  communication  between  distant  na- 
tions, in  the  exchange  of  useful  products  and  manu- 
factures, and  the  extension  of  arts,  whereby  the 
common  enjoyments  of  human  life  are  multiplied 
and  augmented,  and  science  of  other  kinds  increased 
to  the  benefit  of  mankind  in  general;  this  is,  there- 
fore, most  earnestly  to  recommend  to  every  one  of 

VOL.  VII. — 29. 


450 


The  Works  of  [1779 


you  that,  in  case  the  said  ship,  which  is  now  expected 
to  be  soon  in  the  European  seas  on  her  return,  should 
happen  to  fall  into  your  hands,  you  would  not  con- 
sider her  as  an  enemy,  nor  suffer  any  plunder  to  be 
made  of  the  effects  contained  in  her,  nor  obstruct 
her  immediate  return  to  England,  by  detaining  her 
or  sending  her  into  any  other  part  of  Europe  or  to 
America,  but  that  you  would  treat  the  said  Captain 
Cook  and  his  people  with  all  civility  and  kindness, 
affording  them,  as  common  friends  to  mankind,  all 
the  assistance  in  your  power,  which  they  may  happen 
to  stand  in  need  of.  In  so  doing  you  will  not  only 
gratify  the  generosity  of  your  own  dispositions,  but 
there  is  no  doubt  of  your  obtaining  the  approbation 
of  the  Congress,  and  of  your  own  American  owners. 
I  have  the  honor  to  be,  etc. 

At  Passy,  near  Paris,  this  loth  day  of  March,  1779. 

B,  Franklin, 
Minister  Plenipotentiary  from  the  Congress  of  the 
United  States  to  the  Court  of  France. 


DCCLXII 

TO  MM.  HILLS,  PARKES,  ADAMS,  DEGGE,  BUCKLEY,  EL- 
WOOD,    AND    WARREN,    OFFICERS    ON    BOARD    THE 

"alliance" 

Passy,  ii  March,  1779. 

Gentlemen: — I  received  your  letters  of  the  7th  of 
February  and  2d  of  March.  The  application  to  me 
either  for  advance  of  cash  or  payment  of  wages  to 
officers  in  the  Continental  service  is  quite  irregular, 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  45 1 

as  I  am  neither  furnished  with  money  nor  authority 
for  such  purposes.     And  I  beUeve  it  is  the  constant 
practice  with  all  maritime  powers  to  pay  the  ships 
in  their  service  at  home  on  their  return,  and  not  m 
foreign  countries.     I  am  sensible,  however,  of  some 
hardships   in   your   present   circumstances   relative 
to  the  high  price  of  clothing  in  America,  and  as 
I  respect  your  zeal  for  your  country  and  readiness  to 
engage  in  its  defence,  and  hope  I  shall  on  those 
accounts  be  excused  in  doing  it,  I  have  this  day,  in  a 
letter  to  the  agent  at  Nantes,  given  leave  to  advance 
to  each  of  you,  and  also  to  the  warrant  officers,  a 
decent  suit  of  clothing,  suitable  to  your  respective 
stations.     But  I  must  recommend  it  to  you,  and  I 
flatter  myself  that  you  will  not  take  it  amiss,  to  be  as 
frugal  as  possible  for  your  own  sakes,  and  not  make 
yourselves  expensively  fine  from  a  notion  that  it  is 
for  the  honor  of  the  States  you  serve.     It  seems  not 
necessary  that  young  and  poor  States,  laboring,  as  at 
present,  under  the  distresses  of  a  most  burdensome 
war  in  defence  of  their  liberties,  should  vie  in  the 
dress  of  their  officers  with  ancient  and  wealthy  king- 
doms who  are  in  full  prosperity.     The  honor  of  the 
States  will  be  better  supported  by  the  prudent  con- 
duct of  their  officers,  their  harmony  with  each  other, 
their  ready  obedience  to  the  commands  of  superior 
officers,  their  reasonable  and  kind  treatment  of  in- 
feriors, and,  above  all,  their  bravery  in  fight  and 
humanity  to  those  they  conquer.     I  am  confident 
that  you,  gentlemen,  have  the  same  sentiments.     If 
it  should  be  in  my  power  to  do  any  thing  further  for 
you  before  you  go,  it  will  give  me  pleasure.     But  ex- 


452  The  Works  of  [1779 

pecting  daily  a  great  number  of  prisoners  in  exchange 
from  England,  who  will  be  in  want  of  every  thing, 
and  our  funds  here  being  low,  I  doubt  it  can  be  but 
little.  The  greater  advances  made  to  the  officers 
of  the  Boston  at  Bordeaux  by  the  agent,  which  you 
mention  as  an  example,  were  without  orders  from  the 
Commissioners  here,  and  were  much  disapproved 
when  we  saw  the  accoimts.  I  wish  that  something 
handsome  may  fall  into  your  hands  on  your  return, 
and  that  you  may  have  a  happy  sight  of  your  friends 
and  country.     I  am,  gentlemen, 

Your  most  obedient  humble  servant, 

B.  Franklin. 


DCCLXIII 


TO    ARTHUR    LEE 


Passy,  13  March,  1779. 

Sir: — Finding  by  a  note  of  yours  on  the  back  of 
Mr.  Williams'  accounts,  dated  October  6th,  but 
which  I  never  saw  till  lately  by  accident,  expressing 
that  you  are  "perfectly  satisfied,  from  his  own  ac- 
counts, that  Mr.  Williams  has  now,  and  has  long 
had,  in  his  hands  upwards  of  an  hundred  thousand 
livres  belonging  to  the  public  which  have  not  been 
employed  in  the  public  use,"  etc.,  I  have  resolved  to 
have  those  accounts  carefully  examined  by  impartial 
persons,  skilled  in  such  business ;  and  if  you  have  any 
other  objection  to  them  than  what  appears  in  your 
note,  or  any  other  reasons  than  what  appears  upon 
the  face  of  his  accoimts,  for  believing  such  a  sum  in 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  453 

Mr.  Williams'  hands,  I  beg  you  will  furnish  me  with 
them,  that  I  may  communicate  them  to  the  exam- 
iners. I  wish  justice  to  be  done,  and  that  you  had 
shown  your  note  either  to  Mr.  Adams  or  me  when  you 
made  it;  the  matter  would  not  have  been  so  long 
neglected.  The  money,  if  due,  ought  to  be  recovered 
immediately. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be,  etc.,  B.  Franklin. 

P.  S. — The  persons  I  have  requested  to  examine 
the  accounts  are  the  American  merchants  now  at 
Nantes  with  our  deputed  commercial  agent,  Mr. 
Schweighauser. 


DCCLXIV 

TO   MESSRS.    W.    BLAKE,    D.    BLAKE,    J.    JOHNSON,    P.    R. 

FENDALL,    J.    WHARTON,    M.    RIDLEY,    I.    ROSS,    

LLOYD,   —  OGILVIE,    AND  J.    D.    SCHWEIGHAUSER, 
MERCHANTS  NOW  AT  NANTES 

Passy,  13  March,  1779. 

Gentlemen  : — Great  objections  having  been  made 
by  the  Honorable  Mr.  A.  Lee  to  the  accounts  of  Mr. 
Jonathan  Williams,  late  agent  for  the  Commissioners 
at  Nantes,  which  are  therefore  yet  unsettled;  and, 
as  not  being  conversant  in  mercantile  business,  I  can- 
not well  judge  of  them,  and  therefore,  as  well  as  for 
other  reasons,  I  did  not  and  cannot  undertake  to  ex- 
amine them  myself,  and  they  may  be  better  examined 
at  Nantes  where  the  business  was  transacted  than 
either  here  or  in  America,  I  beg  the  favor  of  you, 


454  The  Works  of  [1779 

gentlemen,  that  you  would,  for  the  sake  of  justice 
and  of  the  public  good,  take  that  trouble  upon  you 
and  make  report  to  me  thereupon ;  which  I  do  hereby 
agree  shall  be  conclusive  and  final  (subject  only  to 
the  revision  of  Congress),  in  case  Mr.  Williams  shall 
previously  sign  an  engagement  to  abide  thereby ;  and 
hoping  you  will  comply  with  my  request,  I  have 
ordered  him  to  lay  his  accoimts  fully  before  you;  and 
I  have  requested  the  Honorable  Mr.  A.  Lee,  who 
makes  the  objections,  to  furnish  you  with  the  same, 
that,  by  having  the  whole  in  view,  you  may  be  able 
to  form  an  equitable  judgment. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be  with  great  respect,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


DCCLXV 

TO    HONORABLE    ARTHUR    LEE,    ESQ. 

Passy,  13  March,  1779. 

Sir: — A  severe  fit  of  the  gout,  with  too  much 
business  at  the  same  time  necessary  to  be  done,  has 
prevented  till  now  my  answering  yours  of  the  21st 
past. 

I  did  not  imagine  there  would  have  been  any  differ- 
ence of  sentiment  between  us  concerning  the  pro- 
priety of  returning  to  me  the  papers  which  you  have 
at  various  times  taken  from  this  house.  Where 
several  persons  joined  in  the  same  commissions  are 
to  act  upon  papers,  it  seems  necessary  that  they 
should  be  lodged  in  one  place,  where  all  the  parties 
may  be  sure  of  finding  them,  and  under  the  care  of 


1779]  Benjamin  Franklin  455 

one  person  who  should  be  accountable  for  them. 
And  if  there  were  not  some  particular  reasons  to 
influence  another  choice,  I  should  suppose  the  first 
person  named  in  the  commission  might  with  great 
propriety  take  charge  of  them,  I  am  sure  that  if 
you  had  been  that  person,  I  should  have  made  no 
objection  to  it.  Mr.  Adams  having  a  room  more 
convenient  and  more  private  than  mine,  and  in  which 
he  lodged,  I  approved  of  his  keeping  the  papers ;  he 
has  voluntarily  returned  me  all  he  had  without  ask- 
ing, and  I  thought  asking  was  only  necessary  to  ob- 
tain the  rest  from  you ;  for  the  whole  business,  which 
before  was  transacted  by  us  jointly,  being  now  de- 
volved on  me,  and  as  there  must  be  frequent  occa- 
sion to  look  back  on  letters  received,  memorials 
delivered,  accounts  given  in,  contracts  made,  etc., 
etc.,  which,  if  I  cannot  have  the  opportunity  of 
doing,  I  must  be  frequently  at  a  loss  in  future  trans- 
actions. I  did  not  imagine  I  should  have  any  diffi- 
culty in  obtaining  them;  nor  had  I  the  least  idea 
that  my  asking  for  them  would  occasion  any  dispute. 
I  suppose  that  the  papers  Mr.  Deane  mentions  to 
have  taken  and  secured  were  those  only  that  related 
to  his  separate  commercial  transactions  for  the  pub- 
lic before  his  appointment  with  us  in  the  political 
commission.  If  he  took  away  any  of  the  papers  we 
were  jointly  concerned  in,  I  conceive  he  was  wrong 
in  doing  so,  and  that  his  doing  wrong  would  not 
justify  the  rest  of  us  in  following  his  example.  I 
can  have  no  desire  to  deprive  you  of  any  paper  that 
ma}^  be  of  use  to  you  in  answering  Mr.  Deane 's  ac- 
cusations, having  no  concern  in  them  nor  interest 


456       The  Works  of  Benjamin  Franklin     [1779 

in  supporting  them.  On  the  contrary,  if  any  papers 
remaining  in  my  hands  can  be  of  such  use  to  you, 
you  are  welcome  to  have  authenticated  copies  of 
them  (which  shall  on  request  be  made  out  for  you), 
as  well  as  of  any  others  "  evidencing  our  joint  trans- 
actions" which  you  may  desire.  On  the  whole  it 
seems  to  me  that  this  matter  may  be  reasonably 
settled  by  your  keeping,  if  you  please,  all  those 
originals  of  which  there  are  duplicates  at  Passy, 
retaining  for  a  time  such  of  the  rest  as  you  desire  to 
copy,  which  copies,  being  compared  by  us  with  the 
originals,  may  be  authenticated  by  our  joint  signa- 
tures; and  returning  immediately  all  the  others, 
docketed  and  catalogued,  as  you  please,  so  as  that 
you  may  know  what  and  where  they  are,  and  call 
for  a  copy  of  any  of  them  you  may  hereafter  have 
occasion  for,  which  shall  always  be  given  you. 

If  these  propositions  are  agreed  to,  the  affair  may 
soon  be  settled;  if  not,  I  must  wait  the  orders  of 
Congress,  and  in  the  meantime  do  as  well  as  I  can 
with  their  business,  which,  I  think,  must  often  suffer 
by  my  want  of  the  knowledge  those  papers  might 
occasionally  furnish  me  with. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be  with  great  respect,  etc., 

B.  Franklin. 


END    OF    VOLUME   VII. 


ill 


iiii 


