Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



Prof. OiarlAs E. i,daa«| 



4 

f 






Prof. Oharlfls K. Ad«B«l 



♦ r-* .*.-- 



/ /^ 



:k>' - y^^^'" 



WORKS ,7^.7 



THE HONOURABLE 



JAMES WILSON, L. L. D. 



LATE ONE OF THE ASSOCIATE JUSTICES OF THE SUPBEHX 

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES, AND PROFESSOR OF LAW 

IN THE COLLEGE OF PHILADELPHIA. 



PUBLISHED UNDER THE DIRECTION 



BIRD WILSON, ESQUIRE. 



K<:: 



• MNEI lEHVl *UMU3, Vt L 



PHILADEI-PHIA : 

AT THE LOIt£NZO PRESS, PRINTED Foit BRONSOK AND CBAVNC 



ICT OF PENNSYLVANIA :— TO WIT. 

T REMEMBERED, That on the fifth day of July, 
the twenty ninth year of the independence of tlio 
of America, Bird Wilson, Esquire, of the said 
iepcisited in this office the title of a book, the right 
lims as proprietor, in the words following, to wit: 
E WorlK of the Honourable lamea Wilson, L. L. D. 
ie of the Associate Justices of the Supreme Conrt of 
nited States, and Professor of Law in the CoIIcec of 
ielphia. Published under the direction of Bird Wilson, 
re. Lex fundamentum est libertatis, qua fruimur. 
m omnes servi sumus, ut liberi esse possimus," — 
Cic. 
y to the act of the Congress of the United States eo- 
t for the encouragement of learning by securing the 
1, charta, and books to the authors and proprietors of 
ing the times therein mentioned ;" and also to the act 
act supplementary to an act entitled " An act for the 
t of learning, by securing the copies of maps, charts, 
le authors and proprietors of such copies during the 
nentioned," and extending the benefits thereof to the 
ling, engraring, and etching historii.&l and other 

D. CALDWELL, Clerk of the 
* District of Peonaylvania. 



r 



CONTENTS 



OF THE THIRD VOLUME 



LECTURES ON LAW. 

PART III. 

CHAPTER I. PAO* 

Of the nature of crimes ; and the necessity and proportion 

of punishments. S 

CHAPTER n. 
Of crimes against the right of individuals to their property. 49 

CHAPTER m 
Of crimes against the right of individuals to liberty, and to 

reputation. 67" 

CHAPTER IV. 
Of crimes against the right of individuals to personal safety. 77 

CHAPTER V. 

Of crimes immediately against the community. 95 

CHAPTER VI. 
Of crimes affecting severd of the natural rights of indivi- 
duals. 109 

CHAPTER VIL 
Of crimes against the rights of individuals acquired under 

civil government. 113 

CHAPTER Vin. 

Of the persons capable of committing crimes ; and of the 
different degrees of guilt incurred in the commission of 
tiie same crime. 133 



:s OF THE THIRD VOLUME. 

CHAPTER IX. 

used by the law to prevent oSenc*s. 

CHAPTER X. 

i prescribed by the Uw, for apprehenrl- 
ying, and punishing offenders. 



: nature and extent of the legislative 
British parliament Published in the 



""-ii delivered in the conventton for the province of Penn- 
'Ivania, held at PMladelphio, in lanuarrj i77S. 2' 

1 delivered on a6th November, 1787, in the conventiim 
f Pennsylvania, assembled to take into consideraiion the 
institution framed, by the federal convention, for the . 
Fnited States. % 

in delivered oh 4th July, 1788, at the procesaioii formed 
: Philadelphia to celebrate the adoption of the conati- 
ition of the United Slates. 2! 

1 on choosing the members of the senate by electors ; 
elivered, on 31st December, 1T89, in the convention of 
ennsylvania, assen^led for the purpose of reviewing, 
tering, and amending the constitution of the state. 3: 

1 delivered, on 19th Jansary, 1790, in the convention 
f Pennsylvania, assembled for thepurpose of reviewing, 
tering, and amending the constitution of the state ; 
1 a motion that " no member of congress from this state, 
JT any person holding or exercising any office of trust 
■profitunderthe United States, shall, at the same time, 
jld and exercise any ofiice whatever in this state." 3; 

rge delivered to the grand jury in the circuit court of the 
'nited States for the district of Virginia, in May 1791. 3J 

lerations on the Bank of North America. Published b 
le year 1785. 3! 



LECTURES ON LAW, 



DELIVERED IN THE 

COLLEGE OF PHILADELPHIA, 

IN THE TEARS ONE THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED AND NINETY, 
AND ONE THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED AND NINETY ONE. 



YOl.. III. B 



V 



PART III. 



CHAPTER I. 



eT THE NATURE OF CRIMES ; AND THE NECESSITY AND 
PROPORTION OF PUNISHMENTS. 

AXlTHERTO, we have considered the rights of men, 
of citizens, of publick officers, and of publick bodies : we 
must now turn our eyes to objects less pleasing — ^the 
violations of those rights must be brought under our view. 
Man is sometimes unjust : sometimes he is even crimi- 
aal : injuries and crimes must, therefore, find their place 
in eveiy legal system, calculated for man. One conso^ 
latory reflection, however, will greatly support us in our 
progress through this uninviting part of our journey : we 
shall be richly compensated when we reach its conclusion. 
The end of criminal jurisprudence is the prevention of 
crimes. 



4 LECTURES ON LAW. 

■ ^^ 

What is an injury I — ^What is a crime ?-— What is re- 
paration ?— What is punishment ? — These are questions^ 
which ought to be considered in a separate, and also in a 
connected, point of view. At some times, they have been 
too much blended. In some instances, the injury and the 
reparation have been lost in the crime and the punishment. 
In other instances, the crime and the punishment have, 
with equal impropriety, been sunk in the reparation and 
injury. At other times, they have been kept too much 
apatt. The crime has been considered as altogether un- 
connected with the injury, and the punishment as alto- 
gether unconnected with reparation. In other instances, 
the reparation only has been regarded, and no attention 
has been given to the punishment : the • injury only has 
been calculated ; but no computation has been made con- 
cerning the crime. 

An injury is a loss arising to an individual, from the 
violation or infringement of his right. 

A reparation is that, which compensates for the loss 
sustained by an injury. 

A crime is an injury, so atrocious in its nature, or so 
dangerous in its example, that, besides the loss which it 
occasions to the individual who suffers by it, it affects, in 
its immediate operation or in its consequences, the inte- 
rest, the peace, the dignity, or the security of thepublick* 
Offences and misdemeanors denote inferiour crimes* 

A punishment is the infliction of that evil, superadded 
to the reparation, which the crime, superadded to the 
injury, renders necessary, for the purposes of a wise and* 
good administration of government. 



LECTURES ON LAW* 5 

• Concerning an injury and a reparation, and the mea- 
sures by which each of them ought fo be estimated, it 
will not be necessary to say much ; because, with regard 
to them, much confusion or mistake has not been intro* 
duoed into the theory or practice of the law. 

Concerning primes and punishments, and concerning 
the relation between a crime and an injury, and between 
punishment and reparation, the case is widely different 
indeed. On those subjects, an endless confusion has pre- 
vailed, and mistakes innumerable have been coromitteds 
On those subjects,4herefore, it will be proper to be full ; 
and it will certainly be attempted — I promise not success 
in the attempt — ^to be both accurate and perspicuous. 

From an inattention or a disregard to the great prin- 
ciple — ^that goyernment was made for the sake of man, 
some writers have been led to consider crimes, in their 
origin and nature as well as in their degrees and effects, 
as different from injuries ; and have, consequently, taught, 

^that without any injury to an mdividual, a crime might 
be committed against the government. Suppose, says 
one of the learned commentators on Grotius, that one has 
done neither wrong nor injury to any individual, yet if 
he has committed something which the law has prohibited, 
it is a crime, which demands reparation ; because the 
right of the superiour is violated, and because an injury 
is offered to the dignity of his ch^'acter. ^ How naturally 

' one mistake leads to another ! A mistake in legislation 
produces one in criminal jurisprudence. A law which 
prohibits what is neither a wrong nor an injury-to any one ! 
What name does it deserve ? We have seen ^ that a law 

» Z War. Bib. 15. ^ Ante, vol 2. p. 443. 



d 



LECTURE! OH LAW» 



whkh k meitiy harmless without being tynmnical, is it* 
self a harm ; and should be removed* 

But this doctrine is unsupported by sound legsd prin-^ 
ciple. Every crime includes an injury : every ofience im 
also a private wrong : it affects the publick, but it affects 
the individual likewise* It is true indeed, that, in very 
gross injuries, we seldom hear of any satisfaction being* 
annrarded to the individual, for reasons, the propriety of 
which will, by and by, be examined, fiut in offences of 
an inferiour nature, the distinction, and, at the u^iasor 
tame, the connexion between the crime and the injury i^ 
most accurately marked and preserved. For a battery^ 
he who commits it may be indicted. Violence against 
the person of an individual is a disturbance of the pub- 
lick peace. On this disturbance punishment may be in- 
flicted. But in the crime and the punishment, the injury 
is not sunk, nor is the reparation lost. The party wha 
has suffered the violence may bring his action against 
the party who has committed it : and recover in damages 
a satisfaction for the loss which has been sustained; 



The doctrine, that a crime may be committed agaiiMt 
llie pubfick, without any injury being done to an inA vi«» 
dual, is as little consonant to die history,- as it ts to the 
principles of criminal jurisprudence. Amongthe Saxons, 
as we are informed by Mr. Selden, the most ancient way 
of proceeding, in crinsdal causes, was by an appeal of 
the party complaining. But afterwards, in cases whidh 
concerned damage, injury, or violence done to the body 
of a man or to his estate, the king"— who represented 
the publick — ^was found to be thereih prejudiced, beside 
the prejudice done imm^diatety to the subject : and upon 
this ground, a way was found out to punish the offender 



CXCTURBB ON LAW* 7 ' 

by mdictment, beside the sa^factkm done to tbe party 

wronged. ^ 

In the very early periods of society, those actions, 
ei^en the most atrocious, which now are viewed and pro* 
eecuted as solely crimes against the state, were consider- 
jed and resented merely as private injuries. In those 
ages, the conceptions of men were too erode to consider 
an injury done to an individual, as a crime commitlied 
against the publick ; they viewed it only as a ptejndice 
to the party, or the relations of the party, who were im* 
mediately affected* The privilege of resenting private 
injuries^ in the opinion of a very ingenious writer on the 
lustory of the criminal law,^ was that private right which 
iwsa the latest of being surrendered to society. An im** 
psovement^ in government,, mo opposite to ni strong pror 
pensity of human nature, could not have been instanta* 
iieous. The progressive steps leading to its completion 
were slow and almost imperceptible. 

Coincident, in a very considerable degree, with these 
sentiments and observations, is a part of the law and 
practice of England, which at this moment subsists in 
its foil force- — I mean the law and practice concerning 
appeals, particularly appeals of death. An appeal is the 
party^s private action, seeking satisfaction for the injury 
done lum ; and at the same time, prosecuting for the 
crown in respect of the offence against the publick* On 
an appeal, the benign prerogative of mercy cannot be 
exercised ; because, saith the law, ^ the plaintiff has an 
interest in the judgment. This interest, however, may 

c Bac on Gov. 53. 
<* Kaims. Hist L. Tr. IP, 3Q. ♦ 5. Rep. «»• 



t 

B LECTURES ON LAW* 

be released ; and the release will be a bar to the pro-*. 

ceedings on an appeal. 

« 

These observations, drawn from so many separate 
sources, combine in the result, that a crime against the 
puUick has its foundation in an injury against an indi* 
vidual. We shall see, in the progress of our investigation^ 
that as, in the rude ages of society, the crime was too 
much overlooked ; so, in times more refined, there 
has been a disposition, too strong, to overlook the iia* 
jury. 

Concerning the standard, by which criokes should be 
measured in municipal law, there has been ^uch diver* 
sity of sentiment among writers, even the wisest and 
most enlightened. The law of, nature, it is admitted 
on all hands, measures crimes by the intention^ and not 
by the evei^ Should a standard, different from, that 
which has been established by unerring wisdom, be 
adopted by uninformed man? Should not that rule, which 
is observed by the law divine, be observed, in humble 
itnitation, bylaws which are human? It is said, npti 
and it is said, that this difference must be accounted for 
by diose peculiar attributes of the divine nature, which 
distinguish the dispensations of supreme wisdom from 
the proceedings of human tribunals. A being. whose 
sA^seeing eye observes the inmost recesses of the iieart, 
and whose outstretched arm no flight or stratagem can 
elude or escape — such a being may consider and may 
punish every crime in exact proportion to the quantity 
of intrinsick guilt, which is contained .in it. But with 
those to whom the trust s^ld authority of human govern- 
ment is committed, the case is greatly different. Their 
power and their knowledge are limited by many imper- 



LECTURES ON LAW. 



9 



fecttons: speed may remove, artifice may cover th^ 
object of punishment from their view or their grasp : 
by them, therefore, crimes must be considered in propor- 
tion to the ease and security .with which they are commit. 
ted or concealed,' and not in strict proportion to their 
degrees of. inherent criminality*. Such, or nearly 8uch> 
seem to be the sentiments of Mr. Paley. 

t 

The Marquis of Beccaria goes farther: he thinks him« 
self authorized to assert, that ciimes are to be measured 
only by the injury done to spciety. They err, therefore, 
says he, who imagine that a crime is greater or less. accord- 
ing, to the intention of the person by whom it is commit- 
ted ; for this will depend, on the actual impression of 
objects on the senses, and on the previous disposition of 
the mind j and both of these will vary in different per- 
sons, and even in the same person at different times, 
according to the succession of ideas, passions, and 
circumstances. . Upon that system, it would be necessary 
to form, not only a particular code for every individual, 
but a new penal law for every crime. Men with the 
best, intentions, do the greatest injury, and with the. 
worst, the most essential services to society. That crimes 
are to be .estimated by the injury done to society, adds 
he, is one of those palpable truths, which, though evi-; 
dent to the meanest capacity, yet, by a combination of. 
circumstances, are known only to a few thinking men, 
in every nation and in every age. ^ 

Sir William Blackstone, in one p^rt of his Commen- 
taries, seems to adopt these sentiments. All crimes^ 



f 2. Paley, 29L 2 W. 



Bacc. 7.8. 



VOL. III. 



6 



10 LBCTURES OH LAW. 

$ayn he, are to be esrimated according to the mischiefs 
which they produce in civil society. ^ 

Mr. Eden, in one part of his book on the principles 
of penal law, tells us, agreeably to the same sentiments, 
that crimes are of temporal creation, and to be estimated 
in proportion to their pernicious effects on society : ^ in 
another part, he says, that, in some cases, it is necessary 
to punish the offence without any research into its mo- 
tire; and that, in every case, it is impracticable for 
lawgivers to assume the divine attribute of animadverting 
upon the fact, only according. to the internal malice of 
the intention : i in a third place, however, he expresses 
himself in the following manner : ^ It is true, that crimes 
are to be estimated, in some degree, by the actual mis« 
chief done to society ; because the internal malignity of 
mankind is not within the cognizance of human tribunals. 
But if this position were received in its fullest latitude. 
It would prove too much ; it would prove thai every act' 
of homicide is equally criminal; and that the intention is, 
in no case, to be considered:" '^ in a fourth place, he con* 
aiders its flagitioudness as the standard, by which a 
crime should be measured ; and informs us, thitt, by its 
fiagitiousness, he means its abstri^ct nature andturpitude^ 
in proportion to which, the criminal should be considered 
as more or less dangerous to society : Mn a fifth place,*^ 
he intimates the same sentiment, that ^* the malignity of 
the fact is the true measure of the crime." "^ 

Is it not shocking to reason, says Mr. Dagge, and 
destructive of virtue, to contend, that the ill consequence 

^ 4. BL Com. 41. ^ Eden. 89. i IcLlS. 

^ Eden. 13. ^ Id 8. » Id. 18. 



LEGTUHEfi ON lAW* 11 

of an act is more to be considered than its immorality i 
To disregard a crime, however heinous, because it may 
be supposed not to have a bad effect on society ; and to 
punish slight offences severely, because they tend more 
immediately to disturb the publick peace, is to sacrifice 
moral equity to political expediency. But, in fact, there , 
is no real necessity for making such a sacrifice. If we 
would effectually provide for the lasting peace of society, 
ve should first regard private offences, which are the 
sources of publick crimes. The subtle distinctions^ 
which casuists make between moral and political delin« 
quencies, are offensive to common sense* '^ 

Concerning the standard by which punishments should 
be measured in municipal law, there has been, as might 
be expected, as mueh diversity of sentiment^ as concern* 
ing the standard for the measure of crimes. 

Publick utHity, says Mr. Eden, is the measure of 
haman punishments ; and that utility is proportioned to 
the efficacy of the example. 

4 

' - Liberty^ says Montesquieu,^ is in its highest perfec- 
tion, when criminal laws derive each punishment from 
the particular nature of the crime. Then the punishment 
does not flow from the capriciousness of the legislator, 
but from the very nature of the thing ; and man uses no 
violence to man. 

Among crimes <^ different natures, says Sir William 
Blackstone, those should be most severely punished, 
which are most destructive to the pubHck safety and 

> 

-^ 1. Dag. 335 343. o Eden. lil. Sp. L. b: 12. c 4. 

p 



it LECTURES ON LAW. 

happiness: and, among crimes of an equal malignity, 
thpse,^ which a man has the most frequent and easy 
opportunities of committing, which cannot be so easily 
guarded against as others; and which, therefore, the 
offender has the greatest inducement to commit. ^ 

Much to the same . purpose are the expressions of 
Mr. Paley — the punishment should be in a proportion 
compounded of the mischief of the crime, and the ease 
with which it is executed. ^ 

The end of human punishment, says Mr. Paley^ in 
another place, should regulate the measure of its seve-* 
rity. • To the propriety of this rule every one will 
subscribe ; but it throws us back upon another, concern- 
ing which there is an equal variety and opposition of 
sentiment. 

Criminals, says Plato in his book concerning laws, 
are punished, not because they have oiFended, for what 
is done can never be undone, but that they may not 
offend. ^ 

The very learned Mr. Selden objects to this doctrine^ 
and says, that the antecedent crime is the essence of 
punishment. * 

The amendment of the criminal is assigned by some 
as the end of punishment. To put it out of his power 
to do future mischief, is the end proposed by others. 

% 
«i 4. Bl. Com. 16. «■ 2. Paley. 290. • Id. 2Sr. 

^ 1. Dag. 203. Eden. 6. " 1. Dag. 203. 



• LECTURES ON LAW, 13 

To deter from the imitation of his example, is that 
proposed by a third class of writers. Reparation to 
the injured, is an end recommended by a fourth 
class. 

Almost all agree, that between crimes and punish- 
ments there ought to be a proportion : but how can this 
proportion be fixed among those, who are so much 
at variance with regard to the measure of the objects, 
between which it confessedly ought to subsist. 

If there is so much diversity and contrariety of 
opinion respecting the principles, how much greater 
diversity and contrariety of conduct may we expect to 
find with regard to the execution, of the criminal law. 
Nay, how often shall we find those rules violated in 
its practice, the propriety of which is agreed in its 
theory* 

The theory of criminal law has not, till lately, been 
a subject of much attention or investigation. The Mar- 
quis of Beccaria led the way. His performance derives 
much importance from the sentiments and principles, 
which it contains : it derives, perhaps, more from those, 
which its appearance has excited in others. It induced 
several of the most celebrated literati in Europe to think 
upon the subject. The science, however, is, as yet, but 
in a weak and infantine state. To convince you that it 
is so, I need only refer you to the unsatisfactory, nay, 
the contradictory sentiments, of which I have given you 
an account, with regard to the two great heads of 
crimes^nd punishments. That account has been ex- 
tracted from the most celebrated writers on the subject 



u 



LECTajl£8 OK JLAW. 



—from writers, indeed^ who, od any subject, would de» 
serve celebrity. 

To give you a history of the practice of criminal law 
would be a task, not difficult, because the materials are 
very copious ; but it would be very disgusting both to 
you and to me. I draw the character of this praciice 
from one, who appears to have a head and a heart well 
qualified to feel and to judge upon the subject — ^I nveaa 
the Author of the principles of penal law. ^^ The perusal 
of the first volume of the English State Trials," ^ say& 
he, ** is a most disgustful drudgery/.' " The proceed* 
ings of our oriminal courts at this era"-^meaning that 
which preceded the revolution-*— ^^ are so disgraceful^ 
not only to the nation, but to human nature, that, as they 
cannot be disbelieved, I wish them to be buried in obli- 
vion. From oblivion, it is neither my duty nor inclina^ 
tion to rescue them." — No ; nor to rescue from oblivion 
the proceedings of other ages and of other countries,, 
equally disgraceful and disgustfuL I recite only a single 
instance. 

Mr. Pope, in his picturesque and interesting retro- 
spect of the barbarous reigns of the Conqueror and his 
son,, asks, alluding to the laws of the forests — 

What wonder then, if beast or subject slain 
Were equal crimes in a despotick reign ? 
Both) doom'd alike, for sportive tyrants bled^ 
But while the subject starved, the beast was fed. ^ 

Many, I dare say, have considered this as a fine^fancilul 
description of the Poet. It has^ however, been exceeded 



""Eden. 199. 



T Wmdsor Forest. 



LECTURES ON LAW. 15 

by the strict severity of fact. We are, in the Life of 
Mr. Turgot, told in plain and sober prose, that so rigor- 
ous were the forest lawss of France even so lately, that 
a peasant, charged with having killed a wild boar, al- 
leged as an alleviation of the charge, that he thought 
it wa^ a man. * 

In these lectures, I have had frequent occasion t^ 
observe andto regret the imperfection and the improprie- 
ty, which are seen too^plainly in the civil codes and in- 
stitutions of Europe: it is the remark — it is the just 
remark of Sir William Blackstone, that, " In every 
country of Europe, the criminal law is more rude and 
imperfect than the civil." ^ Instead of being, as it ought 
to be, an emanation from the law of nature and mo- 
rality ; it has too often been avowedly and syst^natically 
the reverse. It has been a combination of the strong 
against the weak, of the rich against the poor, of pride 
andvinterest against justice and humanity. Unfortu- 
nate, indeed, it is, that this has been the case ; for we 
may truly say, that on the excellence of the criminal 
law, the liberty and the happiness of the people chiefly 
depend. 

By this time, you see very clearly, that I was well 
warranted to announce, even in the summary of my sys- 
tem, that the criminal law greatly needs reformation. I 
added — In the United States, the seeds of reformation 
are sown. Those seeds, and the tender plants which 
from some of them are now beginning to spring, let it 
be our care to discover and to cultivate. From those 
w«eds, luxuriant and strong, with which they are still 
intermingled, and by which, if they continue so, they 

« Pvi Lect 397. r 4. BL Com. 2. 



16 



LECTURES OK LAW. 



will indubitably be choked, let it be our business indiia^ 
triously to separate them. From those beasts of the fo* 
rest, by whom, if left unguarded, they will unquestiona- 
bly be devoured, let it be our effort vigorously to dinkn^i 
them. 

In the fields of the common law, which, for ages past, 
have lain waste and neglected, some of those seeds and 
plants will, cm an accurate inquiry, be found. In the 
gardens Qf the American constitutions, others, and the 
most choice of them, have been sown and planted by 
liberal hands. 



The generical term used immemorially by the common 
law, to denote a crime, is felony. True indeed it is, that 
the ideapf felony is now very generally and Very strongly 
connected with capital punis^hment; so generally and so 
strongly, diat if an act of parliament denominates any 
new offence a felony, the legal inference drawa from it^ 
is, that the offender shall be punished for it capitally. 
But thb inference, whatever legal authority it may now 
have acquired, is by no means entitled to the merit of 
critical ticcuracy. At this moment, every felony does 
not, in England, receive a punishment which is capital : 
petit larceny is a felony. At this moment, one felony 
escapes in England, as it must in all other countries, 
every degree of punishment that is human : suicide is a 
felony- At the common law, few felonies, indeed, were 
punished with death. 

Treason is now considered, both in legal and in ver- 
nacular language, as a species bf crime distinct from th|it 
of felony ; but originally it was not so considered. ^^ In 



LECTURES ON LAW. 17 

ancient time," says my Lord Coke, » " every treason was 
comprehended under the name of felony." Indeed it was 
so,, down even to the time of Edward the third ; for the 
famous statute of treasons, made in his reign, uses these 
expressions — ^ treason or other felony," 

It will be very important to ascertain the true meaning 
of a term, employed so extensively and so long by the 
common law, to convey the idea of a crime. 

In order to ascertain the true meaning, it is frequently 
of importance to ascertain th^ true etymology, of a term ; 
and in order to ascertain that of the term felony^ much 
learned labour has been bestowed by juridical lexicog 
graphers and criticks. 

Sir William Blackstoncf asserts that its original is un- 
doubtedly feudal ; and being so, we ought to look for its 
derivation in the Teutonick or German language ; knd 
he prefers that given by Sir Henry Spelman ; according 
to whom, felon is taken from two northern words, fee^ 
which signifies, as all know, the fief, feud, or beneficiary 
estate ; toad hn, which signifies price <ft value. -Felony 
is, therefore, the same as pretiumfeudi^ the consideration^ 
for which a man gives up his fief; as we say, in common 
speech, such an act is as much as your life or estate is 
■worth. ** In this sense," says Sir William, "it will 
cleariy signify the feudal forfeiture, or act, by which an 
estate is forfeited or escheats to the lord." ^ He mentions 
two other derivations, and adds — ^ Sir Edward Coke, as 
Iris manner is, has given us a still stranger etymology ; 

' alios. 15. * 4. BL Com. 95. 96. 

VOL, III. D 



18 



LECTURES ON LAW. 



that It is, '* crimen ^nimofelleo perpctratum," with a bitter 
or gallish inclinatioD. ^ 

The authority of Sir Henry Spelman, in matters of 
legal antiquity, is unquestionably respectable : it is unfor- 
tunate, on this as on many other occasions, that his Glos- 
sary, the work' here cited, is not in my power ; and, there- 
fore, I cannot examine particularly what he says upon the 
subject. 

Serjeant Hawkins, so noted for his painful accuracy 
and his guarded caution, cites s in his treatise of the pleas 
of the crown, both the places which are cited by the 
^uthor of the Commentaries. The Serjeant had proba- 
bly examined both : he follows the description of my 
Lord Coke. From this, I infer one of the two things— 
that Mr. Hawkins (either found something in the Glossary, 
which prevented his assent to the conclusion drawn from 
it, or preferred the authority of my Lord Coke to that of 
Sir Henry Spelman. Thus, on one side we find Sir 
Henry Spelman and Sir William Blackstone ; on the 
other, my Lord Coke and Serjeant Hawkins. In each, 
scale of authority the weight is great ; but, in both, it is 
equal : the beam of decision inclines at neither end. 

If an estate could be purchased, instead of being for- 
feited, by a felony, I can easily conceive how the crime 
might be viewed as the consideration of the purchase : if 
a fee signified a crime, instead of signifying a fief, I can 
easily conceive how the estate might be viewed as the 
value forfeited by its commission. But the ^^ pretium 
feudi," applied in the manner and arrangement^ in which 

^ 4. BL Com. 95. l.Ix».391a. 



LSGTUBES ON JLAW. 19 

the application is made here, appears, in my humble con- 
ception, to be etymology inverted. Thus stand the pro- 
priety and the authority of the derivation adopted by the 
Author of the Commentaries. 

My Lord Coke, whei^ he refers the meaning and the 
description of felony to the motive, and not to the event, 
to the disposition which produced it, and not to the for- 
feiture which it incurs, cites, in the margin, the authority 
of GlanviUe, the oldest book now extant in law, and two 
very 4mcient statutes; one made in the reign of Henry 
the third ; the other in that of his son, Edward the first. 
With regard to GlanviUe, there must be some numerical 
mbtake in the margin ; for it refers us to the fifteenth 
chapter of the fourteenth book : in that book, there are 
only eight chapters. The statutes I have examined : you 
shall judge whether they support that meaning of felony, 
for the truth of which they are cited. 

The first is the twenty fifth chapter of the statute of 
Marlbridge, which was made in the fifty second year of 
Henry the third. It is very short. " In future, it shall 
not, by our justices, be adjudged murder, where it in 
found misfortune only ; but it shall take place as to such 
as are slain by felony — interfectis per feloniam — ^and not 
otherwise." Felony is here put most obviously in a con- 
trasted opposition to misfortune ; intention to accident. 
But ^hat is peculiarly unfortunate for the etymology of 
Sir William Blackstone, a forfeiture was incurred at that 
time, and, according to the reprehensible theory retain- 
ed in England for the sake of fees and not for the sake of 
justice, a forfeiture is still incurred, where a homicide 
happens by misfortune, ^ as well as where it is committed 

c 4. Bl. Com. 188. 



X 



20 L£CTURE8 ON LA^. 

feloniously. If fdoay, therefore, ^^ signifies dearie/' as 
be says, ^^such a crime as works a forfeiture of th^ 
offender's lands or goods," tUe distinction mentioned in 
the statute would be absurd and ridiculous ; referring 
felony to the principle, and not to the consequences of the 
fact, the provision in the statute is just and humane. 

The other statute cited by my Lord Coke is the six^ 
teenth chapter of Westminster the first, made in the third 
year of the first Edward. It distinguishes between those 
criminals who may be bailed, and those who oug^t not 
to be bailed. In the latter class are ranked those, who 
are taken for house burning fehnioutly done— ^^ feloni- 
easement fait," — Does this direct our view to the punish- 
ment, or to the intention \ 

But I am able to produce instances still more ancient 
and still more strong. The Mirrour of Justices, as has 
been mentioned oftener than once, contains a collection of 
the law, chiefly as it stood before the conquest ; and con- 
sequently before the feiklal system was introduced into 
England. In that collection there is a chapter concerning 
incendiaries : th^y are thus described-^— -Incendiaries are 
those who burn a city, a town, a house, a man, a beast or 
other chattels of their felony — ^'* de leur felony ,'*— in time 
of peace for hatred or vengeance. Do the words of their 
felony describe that principle, which gives the crime its 
^^body and its form?" or do they relate to a feudal for- 
feiture, then unknown ? 

But to put the matter in a light still more striking and 
clear: in the next sentence, a case is supposed, in which 
the Intention existed, the fact was committed ; but the 
effect did not take place ; and, consequently, the punish- 



' LECTURES ON LAVf. ^ 21 

ment was not to be inflicted : yet the action is said to be 
dime feloniously* " If one puts fire to a manfeloniousiy — 
felonieusement — so that he is scorched or hurt^ but not 
killed by the fire ; it is not a capital crime." 

I suggest another argument, the legal force of which 
will) by every professional gentleman, be seen immediate* 
ly to be irresistible. In every indictment for felony, the 
fact charged must be laid to have been done feloniously. 
To express this meaning, no other term in our language 
is legally adequate. ^ The antiquity of indictments, and 
the high authm-ity of their essential forms, I pretend not 
to ascertain or to circumscribe. 

But Sir William Blackstone, in this passage, is oppo- 
sed not only by principle, by precedent, and by other 
authority; he is, I think, clearly opposed by his own. 
He says here, as we have seen, that felony clearly sig- 
nifies the feudal forfeiture, or act, by which an estate 
is forfeited^ or escheats to the lord^ And yet, in another 
place,/ he recommends great care in distinguishing 
between escheat to the lord, and forfeiture to the king ; 
and traces them very properly to different sources. 
^^ Forfeiture of lands," says he,^' and of whatever else the 
offender possessed, was the doctrine of the old Saxon 
law, as a part of the punishment for the offence ; and 
does not at all relate to the feudal system, nor is the 
consequence of any signiory or lordship paramount ; but 
being a prerogative vested in the crown, was neither 
sapeiseded nor diminished by the introduction of the 
Norman tenures; a fruit and consequence of which 

^ 4. Gov. Ang. Nor. 504. « 1, Haw. 61. 

^ 3. Bl. Com. 351. 353. 



7 



22 LECTURES ON LAW. 

escheat must undoubtedly be reckoned. Escheat, there- 
fore, operates in subordination to the more ancient and 
superiour law of forfeiture. 

^^ The doctrine of escheat upon attainder, taken singlj, 
is this, that the blood of the tenant, by the commissioa 
of any felony (under which denomination all treasons 
were fDrmerly comprised) is corrupted and stained, smd 
the original donation of the feud is thereby deterrainedy 
it being always granted to the vassal on the implied con- 
dition of dum bene se gesserit^ Upon the thorough 
demonstration of which guilt by legal attainder, the 
feudal covenant and mutual bond of fealty are held to 
be broken, the estate instantly falls back from the offen* 
der to the lord of the fee, and the inheritable quality of 
his blood is extinguished and blotted out for even In 
this situation the law of feudal escheat was brought into 
England at the conquest, and in general superadded to 
the ancient law of forfeiture. In consequence of which 
corruption and extinction of hereditary blood, the land of 
all felons would immediately revest in the lord, but 
that the superiour law of forfeiture intervenes, and inter- 
cepts it in its passage ; in cstse of treason for ever ; in 
case of other felony, for only a year and a day ; after 
which time, it goes to the lord in a regular course of 
escheat, as it would have 'done to the heir of the felon, 
in case the feudal tenures had never been introduced* 
And that this is the true operation and genuine history 
of escheats, will most evidently appear from this incident 
to gavelkind lands (which seem to be the old Saxon 
tenure) that they are in no case subject to escheat for 
felony, though they are liable to forfeiture for trea- 
son." 



LECTURES QN LAW. 2S 

Instead, therefore, of considering felony as a feudal 
forfeitare or escheat, we are here taught, and properly 
taught, to view them as flowing from different sources, 
and, in their operations, not only distinct, but incond- 
patible. 

Having thus traced the true meaning of felony, not 
to the event or part of the punishment, but to the prin- 
ciple and disposition from which it proceeds ; our next 
step will be to ascertain, as plainly and as correctly as 
possible, the nature and character of that principle and 
disposition. ' It is characterized by the epithet felieo^ 
Some derive it from the Latin verb failo^ which signifies, 
to deceive, others from the Greek word ^hAh, which 
signifies an impostor or deceiver. In language, these 
derivations are different: in sentiment, they are the 
same. Perhaps they may lead us to as just a concep- 
tion as can well be formed of felony— the generical term 
employed by the common law to denote a crime. 

Without mutual confidence between its members, 
society, it is evident, 'could not exist. This mutual and 
pervading confidence may well be considered as the 
attractive principle of the associating contract. To place 
that confidence in all the others is the social right, to 
deserve that confidence from all the others is the social 
duty, of every member. To entertain a disposition, in 
which that confidence cannot with propriety be placed, 
is a breach of the social duty, and a violation of the 
social right : it is a crime inchoate. When an injury, 
atrocious in its nature, or evil in its example, is commit- 
ted voluntarily against any one member, the author of 
that voluntary injury has, by his conduct, shown to all, 



24 . I.£CTUlt£S OW LAW. 

that their right is violated ; that his duty is broken ; that 
they cannot enjoy any longer their right of placing con- 
fidence in him ; that he entertains a disposition unworthy 
of this confidence ; that he is false, deceitful, and treache* 
rous : the crime is now completed. 

A disposition, regardless of social duty to all, and 
discovered by an injury, voluntary, and atrocious or 
dangerous, committed against one- — ^this is a crime 
against society. Neither the disposition separated from 
the injury, nor the injury separated from the disposition, 
constitutes a crime. But though both the ingredients 
are necessary, they have not an equal operation in form- 
ing that character, from which a crime receives its deno- 
mination. In the consideration of crimes, the intention 
is chiefly to be regarded. 

As the injuries, and the breaches of social trust and 
confidence, which we have mentioned, may relate to a 
great variety of objects, and, in their own nature, may 
be more or less aggravated, it follows, that crimes may 
be distinguished into many different species, and are sus- 
ceptible of many different degrees. 

Some think, that, at common law, the disposition, 
separated from the injury, constituted a crime. The 
saying, that *' voluntas reputabitur pro facto," seems to 
liave given rise to this opinion. On a close examination, 
however, it will, I imagine, appear, that, in all the cases, 
on which the opinion is founded, and from which the 
saying is drawn, an injury was done, though not the 
injury intended to be done. 



L£CTUIt£S OH LAW. 25 

4 

m 

Avery ancient case is reported in the following man- 
ner. A man*s wife went away with hei- adulterer; and 
diey compassed the death of the husband ; and as he was 
riding towards the sessions of oyer and terminer and 
gaol delivery, they assaulted and beat him with weapons, 
^o that he fell down as dead : upon this they fled. The 
husband l*ecovered, and made hue and cry, and came 
to the sessions^ and showed all this matter to the justices; 
and, upon the warrant of the justices, the woman and 
her adulterer were <^en, indicted, and arraigned. , All 
this special matter was found by a verdict ; and it was 
adjudged, that the man should be hanged, knd the woman 
burnt. ^ Here, indeed, the injury intended and com- 
passed— -*for to compass is, in legal understandings to 
intend'^^was not carried into complete execution: an 
atfocious injury, however, was perpetrated. 

Another case is mentioned to the following purpose. 
A young man was arndgned, because he intended to have 
stolen his master's goods, and came to his master's bed, 
wjiere he lay asleep, and, with a khife, attempted, with all 
his force, to have cut his throat ; and, thinking that he had 
indeed cut it, fled ; upon this, the master cried out ; and 
his neighbours apprehended the young man. All this 
matter was found by a special verdict ; and, in the end, 
the young man was adjudged to be hanged. Quia voluntas 
repuliibitur pro facto. But upon this case it is to be ob- 
served, that there was much more than mere intentioh : a 
barbarous outrage was committed on the person of a man ; 
and was even thought by the aggressor to have been fully 
completed in its most extreme extent. For the young 

e 3. Ins. 5. 

VOL* ill.' E . 



26 LEGTUUBfi ON LAW. 

man, it is said, thought that he had indeed cut his master's 
throat. Accordingly^ my Lord Coke says upon this 
subject, that it was not a bare compassing or plouing^ of 
the death of a man, either by word, or even by writing ; 
but that some overt deed to manifest thai compassing or 
plotting was necessary. 

In a species of high treason, and in a specif s of feIo« 
ny, the rule is still observed — ^that the intention manL* 
fested by a degree of injur}^ though not thp degree ia- 
tended, constitutes the crime. This is the icase in 
compassing the death of the king. Though this intention 
be not completed by his death ; the^ crime is completed 
by what is called an overt act^ manifesting that intention 
by injurious and disloyal conduct* Indeed this rule is so 
strictly observed in this species of treason, that even 
when the intention is carried into full effect by putting 
the king to death, this conq)le4on itself, connected with 
the intention, is not considered as constituting the crinio: 
it is viewed only as the injurious and overt act w)dch 
manifests that intention. Agreeably to. these principles, 
the regicides of Charles the first were indicted as CQm-! 
passing his death, and the fact of beheading him was 
specified and made use of as one of the overt acts to 
prove this compassing. ^ 

The species of felony, in which the rule above men- 
tioned still governs, is burglary. A burglar, ;says my 
Lord Coke, is, by the common law, a felon, who, in 
the night, breaketh and entereth into a mansion house of 
another, with intent to commit some felony within it. ^ 
The intention in this crime is to commit a felony ; but, 

kKeL 8. iS.Ins.63. 



IKCTVRES ON LAW. SV 

in order to constitute the crime, it is not necessary that 
die intention should be executed; the injurious act^ 
done at the time and the place and in the manner de- 
scribed are sufficient : nay more ; if the intention be 
completed by committing the felony, yet, if it be not 
committed at the time and the place, and in the manner 
described, it is not a burglary, though it is a felony of 
another species. 

' The-foregoing cases, the view under which I have 
stated them, and the observations which I have drawn 
from them^ show strongly the spirit of the common law 
in its estimation of crimes. In those cases, the felony 
or treason is traced to the malignity of the principle, 
not to the mischief of the consequences : the crime is 
coiBtituted, though the event fail. 

In other cases, indeed, the completion of the evei^t 
is necessary to the constitution of the crime ; but even 
in these, the intention is much more considered than the 
act. '^ Actus non facit reum, nisi mens sit rea," J is, I 
believe, a rule of immemorial antiquity in the common 
law. If, indeed, it is an errour, as the Marquis of Bec- 
calia alleges it to be, to thin^ a crime greater or less ac- 
cording to the intention of him by whoni it is committed, 
it is, in the common law, an errour of the most invete- 
rate kind ; it is an errour which the experience of ages 
has not been able to correct. ^^ Justitia," said Bracton 
ihany hundred years ago, ^' est voluntarium bonum ; 
nee enim potest dici bonum proprie, nisi intercedente 
voluntate: toUe enim voluntatem, et erit onmis actus 
andifferens. AfFectio quidem tua nomen imponit operi 

i 3. Ins. 6, 



28 LECTURES ON I. AW* 

tuo. Crimen non contrahitur nisi voluntas nocemii^^ ii^ 
tercedat. Voluntas et propositum distin§^unt maleficia* 
Furtum omnino non committitur sineaffectu fuinndL In 
maleficiis spectatur voluntas et non exitusJ^ ^ 

* 

But, on one hand as well as on the other, there is an 
extreme. The intention governs; the intention con^ 
municates its colours to thQ act : but the act-*-tbe injuria 
ous act must be done. Abstract turpitude is not, I ap- 
prchend, a subject of cognizance in a human forum. 
The breach of our duty to man and to society alone ia 
the object of municipal reprehension. For those senti* 
ments, for those principles, nay for those actions, by 
which no other member of society can be afife^c^ed, no 
one member is accountable to the othe;^. For such 
sentiments, for such principles, and for such actions, 
he is amenable only to the tribunal within, and the 
tribunal above him. In the human cpde we have 
seen it to be a rule, that without an injury there is no 
crime. 

Let us not, however, confine our conceptions of in- 
jury to the loss or to the risk merely of pipperty. Of 
injury, all our rights, natural and ^ivil, absolute and re- 
lative, are susceptible* Every injurious violation, th^e- 
fore, of any of those rights may lay the foundation of a 
crime. The strings of society are sometimes stretched . 
in the nicest unison : strike one, and aU emit a com- 
plaining tone. Is a single member of society menaced? 
He who threatens is bound in a recognisance to keep the 
peace towards every other ciuzen, as well as towards 
him, to whom the immediate cause of alarm was given.'" 

^Brac.3& > Id. 136 b. m 4. BL Com. 250J 



■i 



\ 



LECTURES OK XAW. * 20 

I have now traced and described the principles ef the 
common law with regard to the measure of crimes. Wc 
have seen with what wise and experienced caution its 
rules are guarded from every extreme. The result: seems 
to be, that the common law estimates crimes by the de- 
sign chiefly, but pays a proportionate attention to the fact 
—-by the malignity, without overlooking the injury, of 
the transaction. After ideal perfection in her calculatipns 
concerning those amounts ^and proportions she aspires 
not ; she is satisfied with that practical degree of accura- 
C}', which a long and careful experience can attain. 

From the consideration of crimes I pass to the con- 
sideration of puhishments. On this subject some rules, 
, and some valuable ones too, may be gleaned from the 
principles and the practice of the common law ; but we 
must have, recourse chiefly to those which are founded 
on our new but improved political establishments, and to 
those which result from the general principles of criminal 
jurisprudence. 

* • 

Every crime, we have seen, includes an injury : this 
I consider as a leading maxim in the doctrine of crimes. 
In the punishment of eVerj'^ crime, reparation for the in- 
cluded injury ought to be involved : this I consider as a 
leading maxim in the doctrine of punishments. 

In this particular, the law of England is defective to 
a degree both gross and cruel. The father of a family, 
whose subsistance depends on his personal industry, is, 
in the arms of his wife, and amidst his surrounding chil- 
dren, stabbed by the order of an insolent and barbarous 
neighbour. The miserable sufferers by the event are 
the miserable witnesses of the crime. The assassin, 



3Q L&CTURS8 ON LAW. 

who has OFjdered it, is opulent and powerfuL To the 
honour of ^ the English law and of its administraticm be 
it said, that no degree of opulence or power will purchase 
or commsuid ixnpunity to the guilty: this assassin will 
feel its avenging arm. But to the~honour of the English 
law and of its adnunistration can'it be added, that everjr 
degree of injury shall find, its proportioned de^ee of 
reparation ; and that as the assassin is not above its pow- 
er, so those who suffer by the assassination are not be- 
neath its care ? No. This addition cannot be made. The 
widow and the orphans, who were the witnesses of the 
crime and the auffet-ers by the loss, are recognized in 
the former, but not in the latter chfiracter* They at- 
tend to give their testimony on the trial* The rich 
culprit is, condemned as he ought to be* They af^ly to 
obtain reparation-fbrihe loss— -of the life ? That is ir- 
reparable' — of the industry of their husband and father, 
from the ample patrimony of the criminal, who occa- 
sioned the loss? To this applioatimi, reasonable and 
just, what is the answer which must be given in the spi- 
rit of the law ? His property is forfeited by the crime ; 
no funds remain to make you reparation for your loss. 
They are dismissed, without being reimbursed the ex- 
pense of their attendance in consequence of their duty 
ai^d the order of the law ; for the king pays no costs* 
Can this be right ? 

It was,, in ancient times, ordered otherwise and better* 
In the early part of our juridical history, we find that a 
part of the composition or forfeiture for homicide was 
given to the relations of the person deceased. '^ We find 
likewise, that, in those times, penalties in cases of per- , 

' ^ % Henry 289. 2. Dag. 90. Eden. 217. 



\ 
I 



LECTUKX6 ON LAW* 91 

sonal iajury had so far the nature of a civil redress, that 
they were given as a compensation to the person injured. 
Thus it was among the ancient Saxons. Reparation, in- 
deed, was one great object in the Anglo-Saxon system of 
criminal law. The principle may be traced to the Gcr*- 
mans as described by Tacitus. ^ ^^ Recipitque satisfac- 
tionem universa domus." In one of the very early laws 
of Pennsylvania, it is directed that ^' those next of kin 
shall be considered in the loss occasioned by the death of 
the party killed." r 

Another quality of the Saxon jurisprudence in crimi^ 
nal matters deserves our attention — I add, our imitation : 
they inflicted very few capital punishments* • Such was 
the case, we are told, formerly in Scotland ; such was 
it originally in Ireland; and such was it anciendy ifi 
Wales. ' 

In every cate before judgment, the Romans allowed 
an accused citizen to withdraw himself from the conse* 
quences of conviction into a voluntary exile. To this 
institution, the (anaep practice of abjuration in England 
bore a strong resemblance. This was permitted, as my 
Liord Coke says, when the criminal chose rather ^^perdere 
patriam, quam vitam." "^ On the same principles, a liberty 
was given, in Gteece, to a person accused to disappear 
after his first defence, and retire into voluntary banish- 
ment— *in the language of the English law, to abjure the 
realm after the indictment was found. ^ 

F 1. Rccv. 12. « De. Mor. Germ, c* 21. 2. Dag. 77. 

r R. O. Book A. p. 49. • 4. BL Com. 406. 

» 1. Whitak. 278. « Eden. 31. " 2. Gog. Or. L. 7% 



32 



LE€TU&£S ON LAV. 



' Sabacos, one of the legislators of £gypt, went still 
further. He abolished capUaipuni&hineQtd, aod ordained, 
that such criminals as were judged worthy of death should 
be employed in the publick works. Egypt, he;thoi:^ht, 
would derive more advantage from this kind of punish- 
ment ; which, being imposed for life, appeared equally 
adapted to punish and to repress crimes. ^ 

Punishments ought unquestionably to be moderate and 
mild. I know the opinion advanced by some writers, 
that the number of crimes is diminished by the severi^ 
of punishments ; I know, that if we inspect the greatest 
part of the criminal codes, their unwieldy size and their 
ensanguined hue wiU force uis to acknowledge, that the 
opinion has been general and prevalent. On accurate and 
unbiassed examination, however, it will appear to be an 
opinion unfounded and pernicious, inconsistent wkh the 
principles of our nature, and, by a necessary consequence, 
with those of wise and good government. 

So far as any sentiment of generous sympathy is sufler« 
ed, by a merciless code, to remain among the citizens, 
their abhorrence of crimes is, by Ae barbarous exhibitions 
of human agony, sunk in the commiseration of criminals. 
These barbai*ous exhibitions are productive of anoth^ 
bad effect — ^a latent and gradual, but a powerfui, because 
a natural, aversion to the laws. Can law&, whkh are a 
natural and a just object of aversion, receive a cheerful 
obedience, or secure a regular and uniform execution ? 
The expectation is forbidden by some of the strongest 
principles in the human frame. Such law^i while they 
excite the compassion of society for tljose who suffer, 

^ 3.Go5.0r.L. 15. 



y 



& 



I.£CTUR£B ON LAW* 



3§ 



/ 



rouse its indignation against tbose who are active ^n the 
steps preparatory to their su£Fering8* 

' The result of those combined emotions, operating 
vigorously in concert, may be easily conjectured. The 
criminal will probably be dismissed without prosecution, 
by those whom he has injured. If prosecuted and.tried* 
the jury will probably find, or think they find, some decent 
ground, on which they may be justified or, at least, ex«>. 
cused in giving a verdict of acquittal. If convicted, the 
Judges will, with avidity, receive and support every,'the 
nicest, exception to the proceedings against him ; and, if 
all other thiogs should fail, will have recourse to the last 
expedient within their reach for exempting him from 
rigorous punishment — that of recommending him to the 
mercy of the pardoning power. In this manner the acer« 
bity of punishment deadens the execution of the law. 

The criminal) pardoned, repeats the ^rtrne, under tbo 
expectation that the impunity also will be repeated. Tho 
habits of vice and depravity are gradually formed within! 

. him* Those habits acquire, by exercise, continued ac- 
cessions of strength and inveteracy. In the progress of 
his coarse, he is led to engage in some desperate attempt. 
From one desperate attempt he- boldly proceeds to an* 
other ; till, at last, he necessarily becomes the victim of 

'that preposterous rigour, which repeated impunity had 
taught him to despise, because it had persuaded him that 
he might always escape. 

When, on the other hand, punishments are moderate 
and mild, every one will, from a sense of interest and of 
•duty, take his proper part in detecting, in exposing, in 
trying, and in passing sentence on crimes. The CQns«« 

VOL. Ill* r 



Z4 



LSCTVRBs on likir* 



qtience will be, diat criminals will seldom ekide*tli(e v^gi* 
lance, or baffle the energy of ptiblick justice. 

True it is, that, on some emergencies, excesses o€ a 
temporary nature may receive a sudden check from ri^go*^ 
>rous penalties : but their continuance and their fr^nei^y^ 
introduce and diffuse a hardened insensibiUty ammig the 
citizens ; and this insensibility, in its turn, gives occaaioa 
or pretence to the further extension^and multipKcation of 
those penalties. Thus one degree of severity^opetis afkl 
smooths the way for another, till, at -length, under clie 
specious appearance of necessary justice, a system of 
cruelty is established by law. Such a system is calculated^ 
to eradicate all the manly sentiments of the sovd, and U9> 
substitute in their place dispositions of themostdiiprairei^ 
and degrading kind. i 



•.* 



The principles both of utility ahd of justice require, 
that the commission of a crime should be followed by a 
speedy infliction of the punishments * 

The association of ideas has vast power over the seatiiii 
ments, the passions, and the conduct of men. Whemi» 
penalty marches close in the rear of the oilbiiGe, against 
which it is denounced, an asspctation>, strong and s€ri]EiB]g^ 
is produced between them, and they are viewed an ih»t 
inseparable relation of caus^ and effects When, oa^be 
contrary, the punishment i$ proccastinated to a teioM^ 
period, this connexion is considered as weak and preca« 
nous, and the execution of the law is beheld and suffered 
as a detached instance of severity/warrantedbyno^eog^l 
teason, and springing from no laudable motive* • > 

- It is just, as well as ttseful, that the punishment dvmddl 
be inflicted soon after the commission of the crime* It 



\ 
UCCTURES JON LAW. B^ 



« 



•kimld never, b^ forgotten, th^t rmpri&onment,* though 
oftea necessary for the safe custody of the person accu- 
sed, is, nevertheless, in itself a punishmfsnt — a punish** 
-meat galUng^to some of the . finest feelings of the heart 

pumkhment, too, which, as it precedes conviction, 

be as undeserved as it is distressing. 



But imprisonment is not the only penalty, which an 
-^accused person undergoes beJfore his trial. He undergoes 
jnko *the corroding torment of suspense — ^the keenest 
.agony, perhaps^ which falls to the lot of suffering huma- 
jQiity« This ag<my is by no ilieand to be estimated by the 
redi probability or danger of conviction : it bears a com* 
pound proportion to the delicacy of sentiment and the . 
Strength of imagination pc^sessed by him, who is doomed 
to become its prey. ' * 

These observations show, that those accused of crimes 
ehould be speedily tried ; and that those convicted of 
them should be speedily punished. But with regard to 
this, as with regard to almost every other subject, there 
ia^an extreme on one hand as well as on the other;' and 
llie extremes on each hand should be avoided with equal 
care. In some cases, at some times, and under some 
circumstances, a delay of the trial and of the punishment, 
instead of being hurtful or pernicious, may, in the highest 
^gree, be salutary and beneficial, both to the publiek 
aad to him who is accused or convicted. 

. . Pnsjttdices may naturally arise, or may be artfully 
{(Mneoted, against the crime, or against the man who is 
charged with having committed it. A delay should be 
allowed, that those prejudices may subside, and thai; 
neither the judges nor jurors may, at the trial, act 



$6 LECTtl^ES ON tAW. 

under the fascinating impressions of sentiments conce^e^ 
before the evidence is heard, instead of the cadm influx 
ence of those which should be its impartial amd deliberate 
result* A sufficient time should be given to prepare thfc 
prosecution on the paxt of the state, and the defisnce 
of it on the part of the prisoner. This time must vasy 
according to different persons, dttferent crimes, and - 
different situations. * " '- ■ 

After conviction, the punishment assigned to aa 
inferiour offence should be inflicted with much expedi^ 
tion. Tikis will strengdien the useful associatilcm betwe^fit 
them ; one appearing as the immediate and unavoidailite 
consequence of the other. When a sentence of d<^atb ^ 
pronounced, such an interval should be permitted t4 
elapse before its execution, as will render the langoi^ 
of political expediency conscniant to the language ofre)!^ 
gion. 

Under these qualifications, the speedy punishmei^ 
of criniesf should fotm a part in every system ofcri^i* 
nal jurisprudence. The constitution of Pennsylvania & 
declares, that in all: criminal prosecutions, the accused 
has a " right to a speedy trial." 

The certainty of punishments is aqui£ty of the gri^ate^ 
importance* This quality is, in its operation, most meN 
ciful as >vell as most powerful. When a criminal deter- 
^ mines on the connmission of a crime, he is not so much 
influenced by the lenity of the punishment, as by the 
expectaticjn, that, in some way or other, he may be for- 
tunate enough to avoid it* This is; particularly the case 

3c Art 9.1* 9. *. 






I 



LECTURES OH LAW* 9t 

s 

i^ilh Win, when this expectation is cherished by the exam-* 
pie ot* by the experience of impunity. It was the saying 
of Solon, that he had completed his system of laws by 
the combtoed energy of justice and strength. By this 
cxpivs^ion he meant to denote, that laws, of themselves, 
would be of very^itde service^ unless they were enforced 
by a faithful and an effectual execution of them. The 
strict execution of every criminal law is the dictate of 
humanity as well as of wisdom. 

V 

By this rule, important as well as general, I mean not 
to exclude the pardoning power from my system of 
ca-iminal jurisprudence. That power ought to continue 
till the system and the proceedings under it become abso- 
lutely perfect—- in other words—it ou^ht to continue 
while laws are made and administered by men. But I 
jinean that the exercise of the pardoning power should 
be confined to exceptions, well ascertained, from the 
general rule. Confined in this manner, instead of sha- 
king the tFUtii or diminishing the force of the rule, the 
^^lE^rcise of tfle poorer to pardon will confirm the former 
9ndincrease the latter* 

Need I mention it as a rule, that punishments ought 
to be inflicted upon those persons only, who have com* 
mitted crimes— -that the innocent ought not to be 
blended ia- cruel and ruinous confusion with the guilty 7 

Yes.; it is necessary to mention this as a rule: for, 
however plain and straight it is, when viewed through 
thd pure and clear giber of reason and humanity, it has 

«\t been seen by those whom pride and avarice have 
inded ; nay, it has been represented as a rule, crooked 
and distorted, by those who have beheld it through the 



99 LECTUKCS OK LAW* 

gross and refracting atmosphere of false polity and fabe 
philosophy. The doctrines of forfeiture and corruptiQa 
of blood have found their ingenicms advocates, as weU 
as their powerful patrons. « 

There have been countries and times*— there still ave 
countries and times, when and where the rule, founded 
injustice smd nature, that the property of the parent is the 
inheritance^ of his children, has been intercepted in iti^ 
benign operation by the cruel interferencej?f another rule, 
founded in tyranny and avarice — the crimes of the sidject 
are the inheritance of the prince. At those times^ and in 
those countries, an insvilt to society becomes a pecuniary- 
favour to the crown; the appointed guardian of the' 
fmblick. security becomes interested in the violation of 
the law ; and the hallowed ministers of justice become 
the rapacious 'agents of the treasury. 

A poisoned fount^n throws out its bitter waters in 
tvery direction. This rule, hostile to the nearest domes* 
tick connexions, was unfriendly also to the safety of 
the publick. If the inheritance was reaped by the prince \ 
it was, by him, deemed a matter of small moment^ that . 
impunity was stipulated for the crime. Accordingly, > 
ive are told, that, in the thirteenth century, one of the 
methods, by which the kings of England and of other 
parts of Europe supplied their exchequers, was the sale 
of pardons for crimes. ^ When crimes were the sources 
of princely wealth, it is no wonder if they were objects of 
princely indulgence. In this manner we may naturally 
aecoutiit for the disorder and violence, which, in those 
ages, prevailed so universally over Europe. ||k 

.7 Bar. on St 2r. 



LliCTTJREB <Mf lAW. • % 39 

- The law of forfeiture it has been attempted to defend 
by considerations drawn from utility, and, also from na- 
tural justice. The high authority of Cicero is also * pro^- 
duced upon this occasion — " Nee vero me fugit^ quam> 
sit acerbum, parentum scelera filiorum po&nis lui ; sedf 
hoc prsBcIare legibus comparatum est, ut caritas liberorunv 
amiciores parentes reipublicae redderet."* Amicus Cice* 
ro — sed magis arnica Veritas. For the high authority of; 
Cicero, I certainly entertain a proportionate degree of 
respect ; but implicit deference should be paid to none. 
Besides ; in the, passage quoted, Cicero does not speak in 
a character of authority. He decides not as a judge: 
he pleads his own cause as a culprit ; he defends, before 
Brtitud, a rigorous vote, which he had given in the se* 
nate, against the sons of Lepidus. 

But farther ; upon a closer investigation, it will, per- 
haps, be found, that the principle of policy, on which 
Cicero rests his defence, as it certainly is not of the most 
generous, neither is it of the most enlarged kind ; since 
forfeitures, far from preventing piiblick crimes and 
publick dangers, may have the strongest tendency to 
multiply and to perpetuate both. When the law says, 
that the children of him, who has been guilty of critnes, 
shall be bereaved of all their hopes and all their rights 
of inheritance y that they shall languish in perpetual in* 
digence and distress ; that their whole life shall be one 
da:rk scene of punishment, unintermitted and un^bating; 
and that death alone shall provide for them an asylum 
from their misery — when such is the language, or such 
is the effect of the law; with what sentiments must it 
inspire those, who are doomed to become its4}nfortunate 

» 4. W. Cwa. 37S. * Ep» ad Brut, 15. 



40 hZCTUKEB OW I.AV. 

f 

though unoffending victims ? — with what sentiments must 
it inspire those, who from humanity feel, or by nature 
are bound to take, an interest in the fortunes and in the 
fate of those victims, unfortunate though unoffending I 
lyith sentiments of pain and disgust — with sentiments 
of irritation and disappointment — ^with sentiments of ft 
deadly feud against the state which has adopted, and, 
perhaps, against the citizens also who have enforced it. 

Vain is the attempt to range the cold and timid sug* 
gestions of policy a^inst the vivid and the indelibly 
feelings of nature, and against the warm though impar* 
tial dictates of humanity. Who will undertake to satisfy 
an innocent son, that he is the vicdm — who will under* 
take to persuade his relations — ^his virtuous — his patriot* 
ick-— his meritoriously patriotick relations, that one so 
nearly connected with them is the victim, whom the 
publick good indispensably demands to be offered up as 
a sacrifice to atone for the guilt of his father ? The 
sons of Lepidus were the children of the sister of Bru- 
tus* ^* Contra patrem Lepidum' Brutus avunculus," saya 
he very naturally in his answer to Cicei'o. 

An attempt has been likewise made to support the 
law of forfeiture on the foundation of natural justice^ ^ 
" All property," says Sir William Blackstone,*^ " is de- 
rived from society, being one of those civil ^ rights 
which are conferred upon individuals, in exchange for 
that degree of natural freedom, which every man must 
sacrifice when he enters into social communities* If 
therefore a member of any national community violates 
the fundamental contract of his association, by transgress- 

> 4. BL Com. 375. c 1. Bl Com. 399. d 4. Bi. Com. 9.v 



( 



I 






LECTURES ON LAW^ 4.1 

itjg the municipal law, he forfeits his right to such pri- 
vileges as he claims by that contract ; and the state may 
very justly resume that portion of property, or any part 
, of it, which the laws have before assigned him. Hence 
in every oflFence of aa atrocious kind, the laws of Eng- 
land have exacted a total confiscation of the movables 
or personal estate ; and in many cases a perpetual, in 
others only a temporary, loss of the oiFender's immova- 
bles or landed property ; and have vested them both in 
the king, who is the person supposed to be offended, 
being the only visible magistrate in whona the majesty 
of the publick resides*" 

It has often been said, that, at elections, the people 
of England sell their liberty for their own money ; but 
this, I presume, is the first time that this kind of ex- 
change has been brought forward as a fundamental ar« 
tide of their original contract. 

A philosophising is, on some occasions, an unfoitu* 
nate turn, ' It was, we are told, an opinion long re^' 
ceived in China, that the globe of the earth was sup- 
ported on the back of an elephant. The people were 
satisfied and inquired no farther. An ingenious philo- 
sopher, hovever, was not satisfied so easily. If the 
earth, reasoned he, must be supported on the back of an 
elephant, pari ratione^ the elephant must stand on the 
back of something else. Exactly fitted for his design, 
he found a broad backed tortoi£(e.. He placed the ele- 
phant upon it, and published his new theory of the 
manner in which the globe was supported. Unfortunate- 
ly, the spirit of his ars philosophandi caught ; andhe was 
asked — on whose back will you place the tortoise ? To 
VOL. II r. « 



/ 



44 I*£CTUA£8 ON LAW* 

auctores ; nee ulteriua.progrediatur metus quam reperia- • 

.tur delictum." ' 

A$ the punishment ought to be confined to the crimi- 
nal ; so it ought to bear a proportion, it ought, if possible, 
tq bear even an analogy, to the crime* ^ This is a prin^ 
ciple, the truth of which requires litde proof; but the 
applicatiop of which requires much illustration. 

" It is not only," says the Marquis of Beccaria, " the 
common interest of mankind that crimes should not be 
committed ; but it is their interest also that crimes of 
every kind should be less frequent, in proportion to the 
mischief which they produce in society* The means, 
therefore, which the legislature use to prevent crimes 
should be more powerful in pi;oportion as they are de« 
stjructive of the publick safety and happiness* Therefore 
there ought to be a fixed proportion between punishments 
and crimes." ^^ A scale of crimes," adds he,, ^^may be 
formed, of which the first degree should consist of such 
as tend immediately to the dissolution of society ; and the 
last, of the smallest possible injustice done to a private 
member of that society." ^ 

To a scale of crimes, a corresponding scale of punish, 
ments should be added^ each of which ought to be modi^ 
fied, as far as possible, according to the nature, the kind, 
and the degree of the. crime, to which it is annexed* To 
select, where it can be done, a punishment analogous to 
the crime, is an excellent method to strengthen that as- 
sociation of ideas, which it is very important to establish 
between them. 

I 

*Eden.49. i Id.83. k Bee c* 6. p. ir. 19. 



LECTURES OH LAW. 



45 



In the graduation. of .each of these scales, and in the 
relative adjust^ept betuv^^n thexo, aperfect ax:curacy is 
unquestionably unattainable. The different shades both 
of crinxes and of punishments are so numerous, and run 
so mupK into one smother., that it; is impossible' for human 
skU.to n^ark themy in every instance, distinctly aiid cor- 
recdy. How many intervening degrees of criminality are 
there between a larcei^y of- the petty kind and a robbery 
committed^ with every degree of personal insult and out- 
rage — ^betwe^n a private slander and a publick inflamma- 
tory libel-rrbetween a simple menace and a premeditated 
murder— between an unfounded mnrmur and a daring 
rebellion against the government ? 

But though every thing cannot, much may be done. If 
Si complete detail cannot be accomplished ; certain lead- 
ing rules, may be established : if every minute grade can- 
not be precisely ascertained; yet the principal ^divisions 
may be marked by wise and sagacious legislation. Crimes 
and punishments too may be distributed into their proper 
classes ; and the general principles of proportion and ana- 
logy may be maiiitained without any gross or flagrant^ 
violation. 



To maintain them is a matter of the first moment in 
criminal jurisprudence. Every citizen ought to know 
when he is guilty ; every citizen ought to know, as far as 
possible, the degree of his guilt. This knowledge is as 
necessary to regulate the verdicts of jurors and the deci- 
sions of judges } as it is to regulate the conduct of citizens. 
This knowledge ought certainly to be in the possession of 
those who make laws to regulate all. 



46 XfLcrtJKtn on law* 

^ dpttmn est lex,** sajrs my L<»rd Bacon, ^ qu» mini* 
laxxttk relinqoit arbitrio jadicis.^ ^ tf this is true with 
tegkrd to law in general ; it must be ir^iy true, and very 
important too, with regard to die law of crinres and 
imnishments. What kind of legislation must that have 
been, by which **not only ignorant and rude unlearned 
people, but also learned and expert people, minding ho- 
nesty, were often and niany times trapped and snared I" 
Tet such is the character of the criminsd legislation under 
Henry the eighth, given by the first padiament assembled 
in the reign of his daughter Mary ; * which could weH 
describe, for it still smarted under the legislative rod* 
The candour J at least, of legislation should be invio- 
lable. 

^ Misera est servitus, uM jus est incognitum.'^ When 
a citizen first knows the law from the jury who con- 
vict, or from the judges who condemn him ; it appears 
as if his life and his liberty were laid prostrate before a 
new and arbitrary power ; and the sense of general safe- 
ty, so necessary to the enjoy ment of generd happiness, 
is weakened or destroyed. But a law uncertain is, so 
far, a law unknown. To punish by a law indefinite and 
unintelligible ! — Is it better, than to punish without any 
law? 

A laudable, though, perhaps, an improvable degree 
of accuracy has been attained by the common law^ in its- 
descriptions of crimes and punishments. On this subject, 
I now enter into a particular detsdl. To the description 
of each crime, I shall sutgqin that of its punishment ; and 

V 

> l.L^ Bac S4t. » St 1. Mary, c 1> 



LKGTVBM OK LAW. 



47 



shall mention, as I proceed, the alterations introduced by 
the constitution and laws of the United States and of 
Pennsylvania. The laws of other nations will frequently 
be considered in gL comparative view* 



L 



> I 

« 



CHAPTER IL 



or CRIMES AGAIKST THE RIGHT OV INDIVIDUALS TO 

THEIR PROPERTY. 

JlLi very crime includes an inj ury : every inj ury includes 
a violation of a rig^t. The investigations, which we have 
hitherto made concerning rights, will dir^ect our course 
in that which we are now to make concerning wnusigs* 

I assumed, though, for the reasons assigned, I have 
not yet proved, that a man has a right to his property. 
I begin my Enumeration of crimes with those which, 
infringe this right. n 

I have observed that every ihjurious violation, of our 
rights, natural and civil, absolute ^d relative, maifl^y 
the foundation of a crime, a I did not mean, however, 
to insinuate, by this observation,' that every injury ought 
"to be considered by the law in a criminal point of view. 



TOL. III./ 



• Ante, p. 28. 



50 LECTURES OK LAW. 

For every injury let reparation be made by the civil code, 
in proportion to the loss sustained ; but let those injuries 
alone, which become formidable to society by their intrin- 
sick atrocity, or by their dangerous example, be resented 
by society and prosecuted as crimes. Agreeably to this 
principle, a private injury done without actual violence, 
cannot be prosecuted by an indictment. ^ It is not con- 
sidered as affecting the cbmmniiity. 

This principle, however, seems to have gained its full 
establishment only by the liberality of modem times.- 
It is remarkable, that a law made on this liberal prin- 
ciple, in an early peripd' of Pennsylvania, was repealed 
by the king in council. ^ But this is not the only instance, 
in which the improving spirit of our legislation has been 
at first checked, but has received subsequent counte* 
nance by late decisions in England. 

With the enjo3nnent and security of property, Ae, 
security and the authenticity of its evidences is intimatety 
connected. For this reason, dangerous- a^d deliberate 
attacks upon that security or authenticity are crimes by 
the common law. 

Forgery, at the common law, may be described ^ the 
jfraudulent making or alteration of a writing, to the pre- 
judice of another man's right,'* For this crime, the 
punishmenit of fine, imprisonment, and pillory may^ 
by the common law, be inflicted on die criminal. <i 

>> 3. Burr. 1703. 17S3. «^ R. 0. book A. toL 1. p, 14^ 

^ 4. Bl. Com. 345. 



LECTURES ON LAW. 51 

Among the Egyptians, publick notaries, .who forged 
false deeds, or whb suppressed or added any thing to 
the writings, which Aey had received to copy, were 
condemned to lose both their hands. They were punished 
in that p£)rt, which had been particularly instrumental in 
^e crime. « In Lorrain, so long ago as the fourteenth 
century, foi^ery wais punished with banishment. 

The first act of parliament, which appears against it, 
ifras made in the reign of Henry the fifth. This act 
punishes it by satisfaction to the party injured, and by a 
fine to the king.<^- But this first statute has been the 
fruitful mother of a thousand more. True it is, that the 
increase of commei^ce, the invention of . negotiable and 
even current paper, the institution of national funds, and 
th& many complex securities and evidences of real pro- 
perty have J4istly rendered the crime of forgery, beside 
its intrinsick baseness— -for it is a species of the crimen 

~Jaisi-^-^2L consideration of great i^iportance and extent. 
But is it equally true, that all this is a sufficient reason, 

*why, in almost all cases possible to be conceived, every 
forgery, which tends to defraud, either in the name of a 
real or of a fictitious person, should be made, as in England 
it is now made, a capital crime ?h '^ Ptuet super popu- 
^ lum laqueos." There is a learned civilian, says my Lord 
Bacon, who expounds this curse of the prophet, of a 

' multitude of penal laws ; which are worse than showers 
of hail or tempest upon cattle ; for they fall upon 
^ men. I 

By a law of Pennsylvania, whoever shall forge, deface, 
eorrupt, or embezzle deeds and other instruments of 

« 1. Gog, Or. L. 59. ^ Bar. on St 380.^ » Id. ib. 

! k 4. BL Com. 247. ^ 4.Ld. Bac 3. 



12 



LBfiTUR£S OK hAW* 



writings shall forfeit double the vaju^ of the damt^ susi* 
tatiied, oBe half of which shall go to the party mjured » 
and shall in the pilloiy, or otherwise, be disgraced as a 
false person. J. 

B/ a law of the United States it is enacted, that -if 
any person shall falsely make, alter, forge, or counfer* 
feit, or cause or procure to be falsely made, altered, 
forged, or counterfeited, or willingly act or assist in the 
false makings altering, forging, or counterfeiting any 
certificate, indent, or other publick security of the United 
States; or shall utter, puto£[, or offer, or cajase to be 
uttered, put off, or offered in payq^ent or for sale^ any 
9uch false, forged, altered, or counterfeited certificate* 
indent, or other publick security, with intent to defraud 
any person, knowing the same to.be false, altered, fot* 
ged, or counterfeited, and shall be there<^ convicted ^ 
every such person shall suffer death* ^ 

To fprge^ says my I^ord Coke, i^ metaphoricatty taken 
from the smith, who beateth upon his anvil^ and forg^h 
what fashion or shape he will* > The offence is called 
crimen faki^ and the offender faharivA: and the Latin 
word to forge is fakare.ov fahricare. And this is pror 
perly taken when the act is done in the name of another 
person* * " Falsely to make,?^ says he, are larger words 
than " to forge ;" for one .may make a false writing withi> 
in this act (he speaks of the 5th. £li£« c* 14. in which, 
as to the present point, the words' used are substantially 
the same with the words of the law now under consi-i 



j 1. Laws Peniu 5« " 

^ Laws U. S. 1. cong. 3. seas, c 9. s. 14. i 3. Ins. 169. 



LECTVJtSS ON LAW. 53 

deration) though it be not forged in the nam^ of another, 
nor his seal nor hand counterfeited. As if a man^ make 
a true deed of fec^ment under his hand and seal of 
the manor of Dale unto B. ; and B. or some other rase 
out D and put in S, and then. when the true deed was of' 
the manor of Dale, now it is falsely altered and made, the 
manor of Sale ; this is a false writing within the purview 
of the statute. " 

I . 

Another crime against the i;ight of property is larceny. 
Larceny isdescribed— 'the felonious and fraudulent taking 
and carrying away of the personal goods of another. " 
The Mirrour describes the crime as committed, "trea- 
cherousement." " More indictments are to be found for 
larceny, among the records of England, than for all the 
other crimes known to the law. It is computed that 
nineteen criminals out of twenty are prosecuted for this 
crime. ** ^ 

According as the opinions and sentiments of men con- 
cerning property have been more or less correct, their 
notions concerning larceny have been, more or le«3 pure; 
Indeed, in the nature of things, this must be the case* 
Theft, or the secret acquisition of property, was, at 
Sparta, thought neither a crime nor a shame. Why ? 
Because at 'Sparta, Lycurgus had established a commu- 
nity of goods ; and when one got hold of a larger share 
than his neighbours, especially among the young people, 
it was considered merely as an instance of juvenile 
address, and as indicating a superiour degree of future 
dexterity. The senatorial order at Rome, we are told^ 

«n 3. Ins. 169. a Id. lOr. 4, Bl. Com. 23a 

• C. 1. s. 10. 2. Reev. 42. p Bar. on St 443. 



'54 LECTURES ON LAW. 

enjoyed the distinguished privilege of being exempted 
from every prosecution for larceny, q What is still more 
remarkable, a/similar claim of privilege was/in the time 
of Charles the second, insisted on by the hous^ of lords in 
England, when a bill was sent to them from thecommons' 
to punish — wood stealers !*" This anecdote we have on 
the authoritj' of my Lord Clarendon, a peer, the chancel- 
lor, and the speaker of the house of lords. ' 

Much has bqen said, in the English law books, con- 
cerning the distinction between grand and petit larceny. 
The distinction, howeverancient, was never founded upom 
any rational principle ; and the farther it flowed from its 
' original source, the more unreasonable and cruel it be- 
came. Well might Sir Henry Spelman complain, that, 
while every thing else became daily dearer, the life of a 
man became more and more cheap. * But, what is more, 
this distinction, irrational and really oppressive, appears 
never to have been est^rblished with any degree of accu- 
racy. The Author of' Fleta says, if a person steals the 
value of twelve pence and more, he shall be punished 
capitally. Britton, in one place, says, if it is twelve pence 
or more. At this time, therefore — ^that is, in the reign 
of Edward the first — ^it was unsettled whether twelve 
pence was sufficient, or more than twelve pence was ne- 
cessary, to superinduce the capital punishment. ' A simi- 
lar diversity and uncertainty of opinion appears m the 
reign of Edward the third. * 

In the description of larceny, the taking is an essential 
part. For every felony includes a trespass ; and if the 

s Bar. on St 491. «• Id. ibid. » 4. Bl. Com. 23?.. 

^ 1. Reev. 485. « 3. Reev. 304» 



LSGTU&E9 ON LAW* / 55 

person is guilty of no trespass in taking the goods, he can . 
be guilty of no felony in carrying them away. ^ This is 
precisely the law language, conveying the doctrine, which 
I have illustrated gener&Uy and fully — that, without an •' 
injury, .there can be no crime. A real trespass must be 
committed ; but a real trespass will not be covered or 
excused by any artful stratagem to prevent the appearance 
of it. If one, who intends to steal the goods of another, 
obtains, with that intention, the process of the law to get 
them into his possession, in a manner apparently legal ; 
this contrivance'-^-an abuse of the law — will not excuse 
him from a charge of a felonious taking, w ' 

« 

To a larceny it is as necessary that the goods be carried 
away, as that they be taken. But the least removal of the 
goods is sufficient to satisfy this part of the description. 
To remove them from one place to another, even in the 
aame room, is, in legal understanding, to carry them away« 
One, who intended to steal plate, took it out of a trunk, 
^and laid it upon the floor, but was surprised before he 
could do more ; he was adjudged guilty of larceny, i 

The taking and carrying away, says Sir William Black- 
Atpne, and very truly, must also hefehniousj that is, done 
animo furandi. This, by the way, is a clear and decided 
instance, that, in the meaning of the common law, felony 
is referred to the intention, and not to the event. As we 
saw in the former part of the description, that the crime 
ix>uld not exist without the injury ; we see now, that the 
injury will not constitute the crime without the criminal 
intention. For, as the Author of the Commentaries next 

^ 1. Haw. 89. kel. 34. ^ 1. Haw. 9Q. 

jt Kel. 31. 1. Haw. 93. 



« ■< 



^6 LKCTVRES Oil LAW. 

observes, this requisite indemnifies mere trespassers, and. 
other petty offenders. ^ 

' The last part of the description of larceny at the com- 
mon law is, that the goods must be personal. Land, or 
any thing that is adhering to the soil or to the freehold, 
cannot in one transaction be made the subject of larceny. 
But if any thing of this kind is, at one tinie, separated 
from the freehold, so as to become a chattel ; and is, at 
another time, taken and carried away ; larceily. is now 
committed, x 

In different nations, and in the same nation at different 
times, larceny or theft has received very different punish- 
ments. It would be tedious minutely to recite them^ On 
no subject has there been more fluctuation in the criminal 
laws both of Greece and Rome. Seldom, however, was 
larceny punished capitally at Athens ; never among the 
Romans. In the early part of the Anglo-'Saxbn period 
in England, theft of the worst kind did not expose ihe 
thief to any corporal punishment. But the compensation 
which he was obliged by law to make, rendered larceny 
a very unprofitable business when it was detected. Ina, 
the king of Wessex, declared stealing to be a capitiA 
crime ; but allowed the offender or his friends to redeem 
his life, by paying the price at which it was valued by 
the law.* 

The distinction between punishing tJieft as a crime; 
and exactinjg compensation for it as an injury, is strongly 
marked in a law^of Howdl Dha, the celebrated-legislator 
of Wales : *' If a thief is condemned to death, he shall 

7 4, BL Coai. 232. « 1. Haw. 93. « ^.Henry 290. 



\ 



u:cTua£s on law. S7 

not suffer in his goods; for it 'is unreasonable both to 
exact compensation^ and to inflict punishment.^' 

In the ninth year of Henry the first, larceny above the 
value of twelve pence was, in England, made a capital 
crime, and continues so to this day ; and, in a i^ast num- 
ber of instances, it is, by modem statutes,'deprived of the 
benefit of clergy. These statutes, says Mr. Eden, are so 
complicated in their limitations, and so intricate in their 
distinctions, that it would be painful, on many accounts, 
to attempt the detail of thetn. It is a melancholy truth, 
but it may, without exaggeration, be asserted, that, ex- 
clusive of those who are obliged by their profession to be 
conversant in the niceties of the law, there are not ten 
subjects in England, who have any clear conception, of 
the several san^inary restrictions, to which, on this point; 
they are made liable. ^ 

By a law of the United States, larceny is punished 
with a fine not exceeding the fourfold value of the pro- 
perty stolen, and with publick whipping not exceeding 
thirty nine stripes.^ .In Pennsylvania, a person coivvicted 
of larceny to the value of twenty shillings and upwards, 
shall restore the goods or pay their value to the owner, 
shall also forfeit to the commonwealth the value of the 
goods, shall undergo a servitude for any term not exceed- 
ing three years, and shall be confined and kept to hard 
labour : a person convicted of larceny undertwenty ^hil- 
lings, shall restore the goods or pay their value to the 
owner, shall forfeit the same value to the commonwealth, 

^ Eden. 289. « Laws U. S. 1. cong. 3. $ess. c. 9. s. 16. 

vol. m. T 



_Lj4 



Hhall unf€terg«6 ^ i^erVitnd^ hat exceeding one year^ nnd 
shall be confitk^d and lept ter hand !abt»ur. ^ 

r 

Forgery and larceny seem to be the only crimes 
against thfe righ% df private propeHy kiiown tb the com^ 
xHon law. 

Robbery is getfeirsdly clftdsedamoiig the cif^med against 
the right of private property j bn« somewhat improperfy^ 
in ifcy opinion* Robbery receives Ife deep dye froih ont^ 
rage committed ck\, the person ; bnt as property also 
enters into the dcscri^tfon of thh crime,- I shaH eonsi-^ 
derit htere. 

Robberyv at ^S^ coihihtni Xiiir^ is a riolent ahd ftloni* 
jdus taMiig from the perfeon of aftbttier, of mcNley ttr 
goods to any value, patting him ill fear, e Ft^bte iMs 
description it appears, that, to constitute a robbery, the 
three following ihgredieiits ^e i^ispensable : I-, a felo- 
nidiis tnHention', <^r aniniiis fUrdhdi. 2; Some dfe^^riefe lof 
Violence khd putting iti feaft*. d. A taking- frbitt the |*i-- 
son 6f acidtheh 

1. There muist be a Moi^iis iiit^htidil t^ s^ttt : li#^ 
ceiiy is a iSefceiSsaiy^ though By no means the ^o^ ito* 
portarit ihgreidtieht, wllieh enters into the cdmpd^itibh df 
a robbery. The circumst&tices #hich are ealcukft^d dgtfd 
prowler to evinii^e this felonious ihtentidn^ it is iflipbtoiUe. 
to describe or rijcouht : "they inliflt, iii this ^ as ih cM^r 
crimes, be left to the attentive consider^lbh ctf ih^^; 
by whom the person accused is tried* The value, how- 
ever, of the property on which the larceny is committed^ 

d 3. Laws, Penn. 803. s. 3. 4. • 3. Ins. 66. 1, Haw. 95. 



L£CTirR£8 qv LAW. ' ^ 

is, as to the rob|t>ery, totally ipima.terial. In j^his respect, 
a penny is equivalent to a pound. ^ 

2. There must b^ sonie 4^g)^>^^ oi v^ql^nce and put- 
ting in fear. Tt^is indeed is the cfiaracteristick circum- 
stance, which di^iggujshes robbery from other larcenies. 
If one :^ssai(Llt another Jijrith such (circumstances of terrour 
as put hiin in fear, and h^, m consequence of this fear, 
ddivejr hi^ mo.ney ; this is a sufficient degree p( violence ^ 
for he w.^ pu|t in fear by U^e assault ; and gave his mo- 
ney to escape ti(>€ d.ai^gef^ ^ To constitute a rpbbery, it 
is sui^cient ^,at tthe f<^rce used be such as might create 

• ■ « 

%n apprehension pf danger, or oblige one to part with 
his property against his consent. Thus, if a man be 
knocked down without any previous warning, and strip- 
ped of bis money whiJLe he lies senseless ; this^ though 
he jcfumot stricitly be said to be put in fearj is undoubt- 
edly a ?robbcry. ^ 

3. There must be a taking from the person of another. 
The thief musjt be jn the possession of the thin^ stolen. 
if he go even so far as to cut the girdle, by which a 
purse hangs, so that it fall to the ground ; yet if he do 
not tgke it .uP) he has not completed the robbery, because 
^e purse was not in his possession. ' The taking must 
l>e fropa the person ; but this part of the description is 
answered, not only by taking the money out of one^s 
pocket, or forcing from him the horse on which he ac- 
tually rides, but by taking from him, openly and before 
his face, any thing which is under his immediate and 
persjw»?i care j^^ j>r<j^.€i^B. If xy^^ wigjung to ^ve 

^S. I»s. 69, 8 L Haw. ^, 9T, 

^ Post. 128* 4. 'BL Com. 542. » d. Ins. 69. 



/ 



60 LECTURES OK ZAVT. 

his money, throw it into a bush, and the thief take it up ; 
this is a taking from the person. ^ 

We are told by Mr. Selden, that, before! the conquest, 
robbery was punished diflFerently, by the different na- 
tions who came from the continent of Europe. By the 
Saxons, it was punished with death : by the Angles, and 
by the Danes, it was punished only with fine. ^ After 
the conquest, these different laws were settled by the 
Normans' in the more merciful way ; and if the delin- 
quent fled, his pledge satisfied the law for him. But ia 
the times of Henry the first, the law was again reduced 
to the punishment of this crime by death : and so it has 
continued ever since. ' ' 

r 

In the ancient laws of Wales, it is expressly declared, 
that robbery shall never be punished with death ; *' be- 
cause (say these laws) it is a sufficient satisfaction for 
this crime, if the goods taken be restored, and a fine 
paid to the person from whom they were t^ken, accord- 
ing to his station, for the violence offered him, and ano- 
ther to the king for the breach of the peace." " 

Robbery, by a law of the United States, is punished 
capitally. ^ By a law of Pennsylvania, a person convicted 
of robbery forfeits to the commonwealth his lands and 
goods, and undergoes a servitude not exceeding ten years, 
in the gaol or house of correction. ^ 

i 3. Ins. 69. 1. Hair. 96. k Bac on Gov. 63. ' Id. 88. 
« 2. Henry 392. " Laws U, S. 1. con. 2. sess. c. 9. s. ft 

« 3; Laws Penn. 802. a. 8. 



/ 



LSCTURES ON LAW* 61 

I proceed now to the consideration of two other crimet 
at the common law, which, though property, as in the 
case of robbery, enters into their description, yet receive 
their deep dye frpm outrag)es*Ugainst personal security. 
This cannot be enjoyed without a legal gyard around the 
residence qf the person. 

^' A man's house is his cattle" was the expreveion, in 
times rude and boisterous, when the idea of security was 
found only on its association with the idea of strength ; 
and in such times, no expression mor^ emphatical could 
have been used. In happier times, when the blessings 
of peace and law are expected and due— r-in such times, 
a man's house is entitled to an appellation more emphatick 
still*— in such times, a man's house is his sanctuary » 
** Quid enim sanctius, quid omni religione munitius, 
quam domus uniuscuj usque civium ?" ^ Into this sanctua- 
ry, the law herself, unless upon the most urgent emer« 
gencies, presumes not to look or enter. We have seen, 
on many occasions, with what a delicate-- *I may addt 
with what a respectful — ^reserve, she treats the near and 
dear domestick connexions. We may well suppose, that 
she will guard, with peculiar vigilance, the favoured 
spot in which a family reside. Even those who endea* 
vour clandestinely to pry into its recesses — such are ^ 
eaves-droppers — ^receive her reprehension : and unless 
the peace or security of the publick require it, she will 
not suffer its doors to- be broken, to execute even her 
own imperial mandates. When she thus solicitous-* 
-ly protects the residence of a family from inferiour 

insults, we may rely, that she will zealously defend 

f 

p Cic. prodomtf41. «i 4. BL Com. 169. 



i 



6B LECTURES ON LAW* 

it from atrocious crimes. Such are arson and bur* 

. Arson is a felony at common lav, in maliciously and 
voluntarily burning the house of another. '^ This is not 
intended merely of the dwelling bous^ itself, butei^tends. 
to the outhouses ; as the bam, the stable, the cow house, 
tike dairy faonse, the mill hous^i tk^ «]^p k<^w^ i which 
are parcel <^ the mimsioA bouse. " , 

This crime may be committed by wJUuUy burning 
OQ^'s own house, if the house of another is also burnt ; 
but if no mischief is done to that of another, it is not 
felony, chough the fire was kindled with an intenticm to 
b^rn the house of that other. ' But if the intenti^ is to 
bum tiie house of another person, and by the burning of 
this the house of a third person is also burned; the 
burning of the house of this third person is felony ; be-* 
pause the pernicious event shall be coupled with the fe» 
kmious inteation.^ 

Neither the mere intention to bum a house, nor even 
an actual attempt to hum it, by puitting fire to it, will, 
if ao part of it be burnt, amount to felony; but if ^ly 
part of the house be burnt, it is ax!Son> tj^oiugfci the fire 
alterwards go out of itself, or be esDtingu-ished.^ No 
misfortune, nor ev^en culpable aaiegligence or imprudence, 
will amount to arson : it must be voluntary and mali- 
cious. A person, by shooting with a gun, set fire to 
tlie roof of a house ; this was determined not to be 
felony. ^ / 

r 3. Ins. 66. l.Haw. 105. g 3. Ins. 62;. ' Cro.Car. 376. 
• 3. Ins. 6^ 1. Haw. 106. w i. Hale. P. C. 569. 



LECTURE9 ON LAW* 6i 

Arson is a crime of deep malignity. The object of 
other feloniep against the right to property, is mtrely to 
.give it a new' master ; the object of arson is to destroy 
it — ^to lose it to society, as well as to its owner. The 
confusion 'and terrour which attend arson, and tht; Con« 
tinned apprehension which follows it, are mischiefs 
frequently more distressing than even the -loss of thfc 
property. 

The crime of arson wiM oire of the very few ptmished 
capit&lly by the Saxon law. In tlte reign of EdWard the 
first, those who perpetrated this crime wei*e burtit, that 
they might suffer in the same mamter, in which they 
had been criminal. ^ This crime is also one of the 
very few still pUhished capitally in Pennsylvania. ^ * 

Burglary is a felony at the common law, in breaking 
and entering, by night, the mansion house of another, 
with intent to commit a felony. * 

There have been some opinions, that this crime, on 
a construction of the piirase " by night," may be com- 
mitted at any time after the setting and before the rising 
of the sun ; because the day was deemtjd to begin at the 
end, and to end at the beginning of those times ; but 
the later and better opinion is, that if there be day light 
enough to discern the countenance of a man when the 
crime is committed, it cannot amount to a burglary. ^ 

X 1. Reev.485. y 1. Laws. Pcnn. 187.476. 

I * By an act of assembly passed 22d April, 1794, arson is punish- 
ed by imprisonment at hard labout*, for a period not less than five, 
nor mote thian twelvtj ye:rs. 3. Laws. Penn. eOa JSd, 

a 3. Ins. 63. 1. Haw. 101. * 1. Haw. 101. ' 



64 , LECTURES OV LAW. 

To a burglary.it is necessary, that the house be both 
broken and entered. The breaking must be actual, and 
not merely such as the law implies in every unlawful 
entry on the possession of another. To open a window ; 
to unlock the door ; to break a hole in the wall ; to enter 
an open door and unlatch a chamber door ; to Qome down 
the chimney ; to knock at the door and I'ush in when it is 
opened ; to gain admittance by an abuse of legal process^ 
or by the means of a conspiring servant ; all these are 
actual breaches* The least degree of entry with a|iy part 
of the body, or with an instrument held in, the hand, or 
even a load discharged from a gun, is sufficient to saiisfj 
that entry, which the law deems necessary to constitute 
the crime of burglary. ^ 

In a dwelling house only burglary can be committed. 
But a house in which one sometimes resides, and has left 
with an intention to return ; a house which one has hired, 
and into which he has brought part of his goods, though 
he has not lodged in it ; a chamber in a college ; a room 
pccupied in a private house by a lodger ; the out houses 
adjoining to the principal house ; all* these are mansion 
houses within the meaning of the law. ^ A shop may be 
parcel of a mansion house ; but if it is severed by a lease 
to one who works in it by day only^ and does not lodge in 
it, it is not burglary to break and enter it in the night 
time. 

To a burglary, an intention to commit some felony, 

I land not merely a trespass, is indispensable ; but, as was 

.shown on another occasion, it is not necessary that the 

< 1. Haw. 103. ^ 3. Ins. 64. 1. Haw. 103. 104. 4. B).CoTn. 326. 
c Wood. Ins. 389. f Anti^ p. 36. 






tECTtJRES ON LAW. 



65 



felony intended be committed; and it is immaterial* 
whether that felony be by common or by statute law. * 

By the law of Athens, burglary was a capital crime* ^^ 
Among the Saxons also, burgessours were to be punished 
with death. * In Pennsylvania, burglary and robbery re- 
ceive precisely the same punishment.^ The punishment 
for robbery has been already mentioned. 



9 4. BL Com. 327. 
» 1. Reev. 485, 



^ 1, Pot Ant c. 26. 

J 2. Laws. Pent). 802. s. 2. 



vol.. in. 



CHAPTER itL 



«F CRIH£8 AGAINST THE KIGHT OF INDIVIDUALS TO 
LIBERTY, AND TO REPUTATION. 

X^IBERTY, as we have seen on former occasions, is 
one of the natural rights of man ; and one of the most 
important of those natural rights* This right, as well 
as others, may be violated ; and its violations, lice those 
of other rights, ought to be punished, in order to be 
prevented. Yet these violatio|is are scarcely discernible 
in our code of criminal law. 

This we must ascribe to one of two causes. Either 
this right has been enjoyed inviolably : or the law has 
suffered the violations of it to escape with shameful im- 
punity. The latter is the truth : I am compelled to add, 
that the latter, bad as it is, is not the whole truth. Vio- 
latibns of liberty have not only been overlooked : they 
have also been protected ; they have also been encouraged t 
they have also beei^ made ; they have also been enjoined 



68 LECTV&ES OV I.AW. 

bjr the law. I speadc diis not onlj conceniiag the statute 
hm; I am compeUed to speak it also cODcemtiig the 
common law of Englaifd : I speak^hb not only concern- 
ing the law as it was receiFed in the American Stales 
before their revolution ; I am compeUed .to speak it also 
concerning the law as it is received in them still : I speak 
this not only concerning the law as it is received genersBy 
in the other sister states ; I akn compelled to speak it 
also concerning the law as it is received in Pennsylvania : 
nay, I am farther compeUed to speak it also of the law 
as it is recently received m our aatianal govemmei^ 



Our publiek liberty we have indeed secured ;- 
pcrpetua — But, notwithstanding aU our boasted improve- 
ments — and ihey are improvements of which we majr 
weU boast — die most formidable enemy io prifoate liberty 
is, at this moment, the law of the land. 

In some former parts of my lectures, ' I have had 
occasion to remark, and I have remarked with pleasure 
that solicitous degree of attention which the law gives to 
personal security* Its most distant avenues are nMch- 
fully guarded. To decide questions, by which it may 
be affected in the highest, or even in inferiour degrees, 
I have shown, in a sublime part of our system, to be the 
incommunicable prerogative of sovereignty or selected 
, sovereignty itself. I have shown, that, by an operation 
inexpressibly fine, personal safety never sees the arm 
which holds the sword of justice, but at die moment 
when it is found necessary that its stroke should be made. 
Inferiour to personal safety only, if indeed inferiour 
even to that, is the ccmsideration of personal liberty. 

aAnte. voL i p. 314. et.seq: 



LI&€Tn]tES OK LAW. 69 

And yet, vhite personal safety can be authoritatively , 

aiFected only by the community, or a body selected from 

theconHAunity impartially and for the occasion, the law 

iaa^icitly, canteletaly, unconditionally, and continual^' 

prostrates personal liberty at the feet of every wretch 

who is unprincipled enough to trample upon it. I say, 

unprincipted ; because a citizen, who has principle, 

will not wound it by using the authority of the law. In 

eveiry state of the union-— in every countf' of every state, 

there are shops opened, nay licensed, nay establidied by 

the law, at which its authority may be purchased, for a 

trifle, by the worst citizen, in order to infringe the per« 

sonal .liberty of "ihe best. 

From the disgrace of these enormities against this 
rightts of liberty, I gladly rescue the character and prin- 
ciples of the common law. The history of the several 
processes of capias, and orders and rules of commitment 
wtfl show, when We come to it, that this part of our 
munisipal law is of statute original ; and that it Was pro« 
ducedinthe darkest and rudest, though its existence has 
Continued in the mxyst enlightened and the most refined 
tiiaes. 

With another part of these enormities against the 
lights of liberty, however, impartiality obliges me to 
. chat^ge the common law'* Man is composed of a soul 
and ot a body. To mental as Well as to bodily freedom, 
he has a natural and an. unquestionable right* The for* 
mer was grossly violated by the common htw. Witness 
Ae many overgrown tidies, by which the volumes of the 
law are atill distended : witness, in particular, the cus- 
toms de modo decimandi, and the writs d6 excommunicato 



4 
i 



f(y LECTURES Oir LAW. 

• ' - I 

capiendo and de he^etieo annburendo*^ These paru I on* 
ly mention ; .because from these parts wtc are happilr xe- 
lieved : they are parts of the common law, which did 
, not suit those who emigrated to America: tkesf were^* 
therefore, left behind them. 

' But, in some respects, private liberty is still the oi^ 
phan neglected ; in others, she is still the Victim devoted 
by our municipal law. So inveterate, indeed, is the 
vice of the law in this particular, tint it has infected 
its very language. The terms,' which denote the dtmi- 
[^ " nutiQn of the destruction of personal safety*^— homic^die, 

wounding, battery, assault-— -are all prima facie under* 
stood in an unfavourable meaning; though they are some* 
times excused, or justified, or even enjoined, as well as 
sometimes prohibited and punished \xf the law : but to 
imprisonment, the idea of legal auAorily seems, in le» 
gal understanding, to be prima faxit annexed : and when 
it speaks of the unauthorized kind, it is <Miged to dis« 
languish it by adding the epithets ^oi^^ or tmkmfuL 

But legislators should bear in their minds, and should 
practically observe — and well persuaded I am, that our 
American legislators bear in their minds, and, whenever 
the necessary resettlement of tilings after a revolution 
can possibly admit of it, will practtcally observe, with 
regard to this interesting subject-^the foUowii^ great 
and important political maxim :--^ very wanton, orctu:»«r 
less, or unnecessary act of authority, exerted, or autbo*- 
rized, or encouraged by the legislature over the ciMzena, 
is wrong, and unjiistifiaUe, and tyrannical: for eve/f 
citizen is, of right, entitled to liberty, pexaoBal as we|t 

^4.BLCoiai'4€. 



LECTURJBS ON LAW* 71 

as mental) in theliigheis^ poaaiUe diegtree^ vhkh can con- 
sist vith the safety and wslfare of the state. ^^ Legum" 
—•I repeat it—" servi sumus, ut Isberi esse possimus.'* 
In die course of my future investigaticois into this point, 
I shall be able to evince, in the dealest manner, that our 
monicifkal regulations concerning it are not less hostile to 
lite tvae principles of utility, than they are to those of 
th^superiour law of liberty. 

t 

- I . • 

Harving made these preliminary observations on a sub- 
ject, wUch so greatly needs, and so richly deserves them, 
I piroceed to search the little that is said in some of our 
systems of criminal law-^in others nothing is said— -con- 
cerning it. 

False imprisonment is punishable. by indictment, like 
assa^ilts and batteries ;,aiKl the delinquent may be fined 
and imprisoned.^ 

Thus much concerning the crime of violating the 
personal liberty of man. 

Reputation, except that of official characters, seems 
not, of late times, any. more than p^sonal liberty, to 
have attracted the distinguished regard of our publick 
taw : and even when it deigns a Uttle degree of regard 
to it, that regard flows from a wrong principle, and is 
referi*ed to a wrong end. Libels are considered as ob- 
jects of pttUfck cognizance, not because the character, 
but becanse the tranquillity of the citizens is precious to 
^e publick \ and there^e, crimes of this nature arc 
classed and prosecuted and punished as breaches of the 

"^ 4 Bi Com. 319. 2. Haw. 90. 



T9 LBCTOaM OM LAW* 

p^aoe, and as much rcaeflofadiikg cbidltiiges to figlit. "^ But 
it waa not alva]rs so* 

^ I ssudy on a fonner occasion^ ^ thatrobbeiy llaelf do«tt 
not flow from a fountam more rankly poiaoned^ than that 
which throws oat the' Waters of calumny and defMAataon* 
In sayihg so, I was warranted by authority respectable 
and ancient. *By the laws of the Saxons, the Moa, who 
robbed, was punished less severety than the wretch who 
csdunmiated* By a law, made, towards the end of the 
seventh century, by Lothere, one of the kings of Kent, 
a calumniator was obliged to pay one shilling to him id 
whose house- or lands he uttered the cfdnmny. It was 
conceived, it seetns, to diffuse a degree of contamina- 
tion over things inanimate. He was obliged to pay six 
shillings to the person wlxmi he caltHuaiated, mai twelve 
shillings to the king* When we recollect, that, long o^er 
this time, a shillitig could purchase a fatted ox ; we may 
judge concerning the light, in which defamaticm was 
viewed at this time. But Edgar the peaceable, who 
flourished about two centuries afterwards, made, against 
this crime, a law much more severe : it decreed, that 
a person convicted of gross and dangerous defamation 
iriiould have has tongue cut out, ual^aa' he redeemed it 
by paying his full tvrrr, as it waacaUcd, or the price of 
his life* This law was confirmed by Caautei the great/ 

By the laws of Egypt, a defamer waa coBdemned t^ 
the same punishment, which would have been.mflicted 
on the defamed, if the defamation had been; tirue»^ Skdo^, 
in one of his laws, ordained, that a defiaqueat in shmder 

*^ 4. BL Com. 150. « VoL 2. p. 472. 

^2. Henry. S9S. si C^. Or. L. 58. 



LECTURES ON LAW. 75 

iliould make reparation in money to the party injured ; 
and should also pay a fine into the publick treasury. ^ 

A libel may be described-— a malicious defamation of 
any person, published by writing, or printing, or signs, or 
pictures, and tending to expose him to pu^ick hatred, 
contempt, or ridicule. ' It is clearly a crime at the com- 
mon law. i 

\ 

It has been often observed in the course of these! 
lectures, that one extreme naturally produces its opposite^ 
An unwarrantable attempt made in the star chamber, 
during the reign of James the iirst, to wrest the law of 
libels to the purposes of ministers, and an effort continued 
ever since to carry that attempt into execution, and even 
to go beyond some of its worst principles, have, in Eng- 
land, lost to the community the benefits of that law, wise 
and salutary when administered properly, andby thepro- 
per persons. The decision in that case has ever since been 
considered, in England^ as the foundation of the law ou 
this subject. It will be proper, therefore, to examine tho 
parts of that decision with some degree of minuteness. 

The libel, prosecuted and condemned, was a ^atf rital 
ballad on a deceased archbishop of Canterbury and his 
living successour.^ 

The first resolution is, that a libel against a magis- 
trate, or other publick person, is a greater offence than 
one against a private man.. This, in the unqualified man- 
ner here expressed, cannot be rationally admitted. Oth^r 

t 1. Pot. Ant 179, » 1. Haw. 193. 

i 3. Ins. 174. * k ^^R^p, 135 g^ 

VOL. III. 1* 



r4 tccTVE^ on.u^Wm 

circumstances being equalt that of oficc ought to mcUiie 
the beam, if the libel refer to bis official character or 
conduct ; because an officer is a citizen and more* But 
a libel of one kind against a private citizen, maj certainly 
be more atrocious, and of example more atrociously evil^ 
than a libel of another kind against a piublick oftcer. 



Apother and a more important resolution in that 
is«— that it is immaterial whether the libel be false or true.. 
This resohition is clearly extrajudicial, because it ap* 
pears, from the state of the case, that the author of the 
libel was proceeded against on his own confession. The 
rule, however, has been followed by more modem deter* 
minations; and reasons have been offered to support it 
on the principles of law. The provocation and not the 
falsity, says Sir William Blackstone, is the thing to be 
punished criminally. In a civil action, he admits, a libel 
must appear to be false as well as scandalous i for, if the 
charge be true, the plaintiff has received no private injury^ 
and has no ground to demand a compensation for him* 
self, whatever offence it may be against the publick peaeb 9 
and, therefore, upon a civil action, tike truth of Mte>accis<%. 
sation may be pleaded in bar of the suit. But in a crimi- 
nal prosecution, the tendency which all libels, have to 
create animosities, and to disturb the publick peace, is the 
sole consideration of the law. ^ 

Upon this passage, I observe, in the first place« that 

^ a Kbel is a violation of the right of character, and nyoc of 

the right of perscHial safety. It is no wonder if the rea* 

sonings on this crime are inaccurate, when its very princU 

pie is mistaken. ' 

1 4. BL CloiQ. 150. 






LECTURES ON LAW, 75 

I observe, in the second place^ that these inaccurate 
reasonings are attempted to be established by a gross in« 
consistency. When they refer to the effecU of the libel, 
they suppose the tendency to produce disturbances of the 
peiice : when they refer to the ccmses of the libel, they 
say to him who \& actuated by them — ^you ought, in a 
settled government, to complain for every injury in the 
ordinary course of law, and by no means to revenge 
yoarself. " Why is not this advice given consistently, 
to the pel^on provoked by the libel ? If he has received 
an injury-— if on that injury a crime is superinduced ; 
the law wHl repair the former, and punish the Uttp: 
if no injury has been sustained, no foundation has been 
laid for a ciime% 

^ I observe, in the third place^ that Sir William Black«< 
atone here seet&s not to have been sufficiently attentive 
to a principle, which ^he properly subscribes in another 
^avt of his Commentaries : ^ the crime includes an inju- 
ly : every publick ofEence is also a private wrong, and 
somewhat more: it aifects the individual, and it likewise 
^ects the community. 

The only points, it is said, to be considered in the 
prosecution for a libel, are, first, the making or pub- 
lishing of the book or writing : secondly, .whether the 
matter be criminal. ^ 

On the last of th^se two points, a celebrated contro- 
versy has subsisted between judges and juries; the former 
claiming its decision as a question of law ; the latter 
claiming it as a question of fact) or, at least, necessarily 

» 5; Rep. 125 b. « 4. Bl. Com. 5. • Id. 151. 



r6 



LECTURES ON LAW. 



involve^ in the decision of a question of fact. After 
what I have said, in a former lecture, p concerning the 
general duties and powers of juries, you will be at no 
loss to know my sentiments on this controverted subject. 
I only remark, at present, that if a libel be, as I think it 
is, a crime against the right of reputation ; the trial on 
a libel must be the trial of a character^ or some part of a 
character. Of all questions, almost, which . can be pro- 
posed, I think this the most remote^ from a question of 
law. 

# 

The constitution of Pennsylvania has put this matter 
upon an explicit footing, consonant, or nearly consonant 
in my opinion, to the true priticiples of the common 
law : ^^ in all indictments for libels, the jury shall have 
a right to determine the law and the facts, under the 
direction of the court, as in other cases.'^* 

The punishment of a libel is a fine, or a fitle and cor« 
poral punishment.' 



"^ Vol. 2. p. 336. et seq. ^ Art 9. s. 7. 



'l.Haw.l9i. 



CHAPTER IV. 



\ 



OY CKIMSS AGAINST THE RIGHT OF INDIVIDUALS TO 

PERSONAL SAFETY. 

I 

I 

X HE crimes which are next to be enumerated and con- 
sidered are those against the right of personal safety. Ou 
this subject, the common law has been peculiarly accurate 
and attentive. 

An assault is an attempt or oiFer, with force and vio- 
lence, to do a corporal hurt to another ; as by striking at 
nim ; by holding up the fist at him ; by pointing a pitch- 
fork at him, if he be within its reach ; by presenting a 
gun at him, if he be within th« distance to which it will 
carry ; or by any other act of a similar kind,' done in an 
angry and threatening manner* ^ An assault is violence 
inchoate. *» 

A battery is violence completed by beating another. 
Any injury done to the person of a man, in an angry, or 

» 1. Haw. 133. *» 3. BL Com. 120. 



78 



LECTURES ON LAW, 



revengeful, or rude, or iasolent manner, as by touching 
him in any manner, or by spitting in his face, is a battery 
in the eye of the law. ^ In that eyCj^ the person of every 
man is sacred : between the different (legrees of violence 
it is impossible to draw aline : with great propriety, there- 
fore, its very first degree is prohibited* ^ 

Wounding is a dangerous hurt given to another ; and 
is an aggravated species of battery, e ^ 

These offences may unquestionably be considered a# 
private injuries, for which compensation ought to be de- 
creed to those who suffer them. But viewed in a publick 
light, they are breaches of the publick peace : as such thej 
may be prosecuted ; and as such they maj be punished. 
The punishment is fine, or fine and imprisonment, f 

A battery or an assault, violence or an offer of vio- 
lence, is susceptible of deep criminality from the atrocious 
intention, with which it id sometimes offered or done. An . 
assault with a desi|;n to murder, to perpetrate the last 
outrage upon the honour of the fair dex, or to commit 
the crime which ought not to be even named — ^these are 
instances of what I mention; in these instances, to a heavy 
fine and imprisonment, it k usual to add the judgment of 
the pillory, k 

Assaults, batteries, and woundings may be sometimes 
excused, and sometimes justified. The particular cases 
in which this may be done^ will be explained with more 



« 1. Haw. 134 



d 3.BlCom.l20L 



« Id. 12L 



^ i. Haw. 134. 4; *BL Com. 317. 



s 4. BL Com. 217. 



LECTUREa ON LAW. 79 

propriety, when we come to consider them aa private 
injuries, and not as pi^blick offences. 

I 

Affrays are crimes against the personal safety of the 
citizens ; for in their personal safety, their personal secu- 
rity and peace are undoubtedly comprehended. An afiray 
is a fighting of persons in a publick place, to the terrour 
of the citizens. They are consideited as common nul« 
dances. They may, and ought to be suppressed by every 
person present ; and the law, as it gives authority, so it 
, gives protection, to those who obey its authority in sup- 
pressing them, and in apprehending such as are engagea 
in them ; if by every person present ; then still more 
strongly by the officers of peace and justice. ** In some 
cases, there may be an affray, where there is no actual 
violence; as where a man arms himself with dangerous 
and unusual weapons, in such a manner, as wilt naturally 
diffuse a terrour among the people. * 

To challenge another, by word or letter, to fight a duel^ 
pr to be the messenger of such a challenge, or to provoke, 
or even to endeavour to provoke, another to send sueh si 
chaUenge, is a crime of a very high nature, and is severely 
reprehended by the law *? duels are direct and insolent 
contempts of the justice of the state. ^ 

Affrays are punished by fine and imprisonment, the 
measure of which must be regulated by the circumstances 
of the case. ^ For sending a challenge, the offenders 
have been adjudged to pay a fine, to be imprisoned, td 

,, 3. Ins. 158. 4. Bl. Com. 145. / 1. Haw. 135. 

j 3. Int. 158. t if aw. 135. ^ 1. Haw. llC > 14. ibiil. 



so LECTUaES OH LAW. 

make a publick acknowledgment of their offence, and ta 
be bound to their good behaviour. 

It cannot have escaped your observation, with what a 
judicious mixture of poignant contempt the common law 
seasons its indignation against those, who are €o lost to 
true sentiment as to deem it hcmourable to insult the 
justice of their couBtry. They are not treated as crinu- 
nals of dignity : they are considered in the very degraded 
view of common nuisances : the putrid oiBds of the sham- 
bles are viewed, as we shall see, in the same light. 

I 

Neither can it have escaped your observation, with 
what a deep knowledge of human nature, the common law 
traces and pursues duels to what is frequently their 
cowardly as well as their cruel source. Many- are vain 
and base enough to wish and aspire at that importance 
which, in their perverted nodons, arises from being even 
the second in a quarrel of this nature, who have not spirit 
enough to face that danger, which arises from being the 
first. Hence, often the officious an^ the insidious offend 
of friendship, as it is called, on these occasions, by those 
who, with hearts pusillanimous and malignant, inflame, 
instead of endeavouring, as those possessed of bravery 
and humanity would endeavour, to extinguish an unhappy 
dispute — a dispute, perhaps, unpremeditated as well as 
unhappy — regretted as well as unintended by the imme-« 
diate parties — and to rescue them from the consequences 
of which, yrithout any violation of the rules of true ho- 
nour, and even without any departure from the rules of 
false honour, which every one has not the calm courage 
to violate, nothing is wanting but a conduct diametrically 
opposite to that of these pretended friends — a conduct 
which will prevent extremities, without wounding a senti- 



ItCTURES ON LAW. 81 



\ 



ment which, withput necessity, ought not to be wounded, 
because it is delicate though it be mistaken. 

Animated with a just degree of blended resentment 
and disdain against the conduct first described, the com- 
mon law wisely and humanely extends disgrace andxen- 
sure and punishment to those who provoke, even to those 
who endeavour to provoke, another to send a challenge. 

On the same principles on which affrays are prohibited 
and punished, riots, routs, and unlawful assemblies are 
also prohibitcU and punished by the common law. Two 
persons may commit an affray ; but to a riot, a rout, or an 
unlawful at>sembly, three are necessary. A riot is a tu- 
multuous disturbance of the peace by persons unlawfully 
assembled with a view to execute, and actu^ly executing, 
some unlawful act, in a violent and turbulent manner, to 
the terrour of the people. °* A rout is a riot unfinished ; 
and is committed by persons unlawfully assenijj^led with a 
Tiew to execute, and actually making a motion to execute, 
an unlawful act, the execution of which would render the 
riot complete. An unlawful assembly is an unfinished 
rout ; and is committed by persons unlawfully assembled 
with a view, but without actually making a motion, to 
execute an unlawful act, to the execution of which, if 
they had made an actual motion, they would have been 
guilty of a rout. " The punishment of these offences, at 
the common law, has generally been by fine and imprison- 
ment only: cases, however, very enormous have been 
punished by the pillory also. *» 



. ml. Haw. 155.- Salk. 594. 3. Ins. irs. . »* 1. Haw.' M«. 

o Id. 159. 

▼OL. III. Ik 



^2 LECTU&ES ON LAW. 

Mayhem is a crime committed by violently depriving 
one of the use of any part of his body, by losing the 
use of which he becomes less able, in fighting, to annoy 
his adversary or- to defend himself. ^ This is an atrocious 
breach of the publick peace and security. By it, one 
of the citizens is disabled from defending himself; by 
it, his fellow citizens are debarred from receiving th^tso* 
cial aid which they are obliged to give ; by it, the state 
loses those services, which it had H right to exact and 
expect. In ancient times, this crime was punished ac- 
cording to the law of retaliation : it is now punished with 
fine and imprisonment. ^ 

The forcible abduction or stealing of a {yrson from 
his countr}'^, is a gross violation of the right of personal 
safety. To this crime the ttrxa kidnapping is appropria* 
ted by the law. It robs the state of a citizen ; it banishes 
the citizen from his country ; and it may be productive 
of mischiefs of the most lasting and humiliating kind. 
By the common law, it is punished with fine, with im» 
prisonment, and with the pillory. ^ 

A rape is an irreparable and a most atrocious aggres- 
sion on the right of personal safety^ Besides the' thousaood 
excruciating, but nameless circumstances by which it is 
aggravated, some may be mentioned with propriety. It 
is a crime committed not only against the citizen, but 
against the woman ; not only against the common riglits 
of society, but against the peculiar rights of the sex : 
it is committed by one from whom, on every virtuous 
and manly principle, her sex is , entitled to inviolable 
protection, and her honour to the most sacred regard. 

P 1. Haw. 111. ^ 4. Bl. Com. 306. r fa. 219. 



LECTURES ON LAW. 



ds 



This crime is one of the selected few, which, by the 
laws of the Saxons, were punished with death. The 
same punishment " it still undergoes in the commonwealth 
of Pennsylvania. - On this subject, for an obvious rea- 
son, particular observations will not be expected from a 
lectuire in the hall : they are fit for the book and the clo- 
set only : for even the book and the closest they are fit, 
only because they are necessary. 

The crime not to be named, I pass in a total silence. 

I now proceed to consider homicide, and : all its 
different species. Homicide is the generical term used 
by the law to denote every human act, by which a man 
is deprived of his life. It may be arranged under the 
following divisions— enjoined homicide — justifiable ho- 
micide — ^homicide by misfortune — excusable homicide — 
alleviated homicide — malicious homicide — ^treasonable 

I 

homicide. 

I. 1. Homicide is enjoined, when it is necelssary for 
the defence of the United States, or of Pennsylvania. 
At present, it is not necessary for me, and, therefore, 
I decline to examine the general and very important sub- 
ject concerning the rights of war. I confine myself 
merely to that kind -of war, which is defensive : and 
even that kind I now consider solely ab a municipal 



• 1. Laws Penn 135. 

t By the act of assembly of 22d» April 1794, the punishftieBt 
of this crime is changed into imprisonment at hard labour, for a 
period not less than ten, nor more than twenty one years. 3* Laws 
^enn. 600. £d. 



84 ^ LECTURES ON LAW. 

regulation, established by the constitution of the nation, 
and that of this commonwealth. 

The constitution of the nation is ordained to ^^ pro- 
vide for the common defence.^' In order to make ^^ pro- 
vision" for that defence, congress have the power to 
" provide for arming the militia," and " for calling them 
forth," " to repel invasions :" they have power " to pro- 
vide a navy," " to raise and support armies," " to declare 
war." ** Whenever the primary ^object, " the cpmmon 
defence," renders it necessary, the power becomes the 
duty of congress : and it requires no formal deduction 
of logick to point to the duty, when necessity shall re- 
quire, of military bodies, ^^ raised, supported, and arm. 
ed." In Pennsylvania, it is explicitly declared upon the 
very point, that ^^ the freemen of this commonwealth 
shall be armed for its defence.^' ^ « 

2. Homicide is enjoined, when it is necessary for the 
' defence of one's person or house. 

With regard to the first, it is the great natural law of 
self preservation, which, as we have seen, ^ cannot be 
repealed, or superseded, or suspended by any human in- 
stitution. This law, however, is expressly recognised 
in the constitution of Pennsylvania. * " The right of the 
citizens to bear arms in the defence of themselves shall 
not be questioned." This is one of our many renewals 
of the Saxon regulations. " They were bound," says ~ 
Mr. Sclden, '' to keep arms for the preservation of the * 
kingdom, and of their own persons." ^ 

s 

* Cons. U. S. art. 1. s. 8. ▼ Cons. Pcnn. art 6. s. 2. 

Ante. vol. 2. p. 496. » Art 9. s. 21. ^ Bac. on Gov. 4a 



ti;CTUIlE0 ON LAW. 



85 



With regard to the second ; every man's house it 
deemed9 by the law, to be his castle ; and the law, while 
it iiivests him with the power, enjoins on him the duty, 
of the commanding officer. " Every man's house is his 
castle," says my Lord Coke, in one of his reports, *' and 
he ought tp keep and defend it at his peril; and if any 
one be robbed in it, it shall be esteemed his own default 
and negligence." ' For this reason, one may assemble 
people together in order to protect and defend his 
house. * 

3. Homicide is frequently enjoined by the judgment 
of courts agreeably to the directions of the law. This 
is the case in all capital punishments. This species of 
homicide is usually classed with those kifids which are 
justifiable. The epithet is true so far a3 it goes.' But it 
goes not far enough to characterize the conduct of the 
officer to whom it relates. One may be justifiable in do- 
ing a thing, in omitting to do which he may be equally 
justified. But this is not the case with a sherif]^ or other 
ministerial officer of justice. He is commanded to do 
•xecution. 



II. As homicide is enjoined, when a sentence of 
death is to be executed ; so it is sometimes justified in 
the execution of other process from the courts of jus- 
tice. When persons, who have authority to arrest, 
and who use the proper means for that purpose, are re- 
sisted in doing so, and the party making resistance is 
killed in the struggle; this homicide is justifiable. ^ If a 
person, who interposes to part the combatants in ana£Frayi 



■ 7. Rep. 6. 



1. Ha]c.P. C.54r. 4. BL Com. 233L 



fc Eden. 209. Post. 270. 1. Hale. P. C. 494. 



86 



LECTURES OK LAW» 



and gives notice to them of his friendly intention, is as^^ 
saulted by any of them, and, in the struggle, happens 
to kill ; this is justifiable homicide. For, in such cases, 
it is the duty of every man to interpose, that mischief 
may be prevented, and the peace may be. preserved. 
This rule is founded in the principles of social duty. • 
tf a woman, in defence of her honour, kill him who 
attempts the last outrage against it; this homicide is 
justifiable. ^ In the same manner, the husband or father 
may justify the killing of one, who makes a similar 
attempt upon his daughter or wife. * In these instances 
of justifiable homicide, the person who has done it is 
to be acquitted and discharged, with commendation rs(- 
ther than censure. ^ 

III. Homicide by misfortune happens, when a man^ 
in the execution of a lawful act, and without intending^ 
any harm, unfortunately kills another. * The act must 
not only be lawful, but must also be done in a lawful man- 
ner. If a master, correcting his servant moderately^ 
happens to occasion his death, it is only misadventure ; 
for the act of correction was lawful : but it is much other- 
wise, if he exceed in the manner, the instrument, or the 
quantity of the correction. 

This species of homicide, if found by a jury, stUl, 
in strict law, as it is received in England, subjects the 
unfortunate — I cannot call him the guilt}" — ^party, to a 
forfeiture of his personal estate ; or, as some say, only 



c Fost 272. Eden. 209. 



e 4. BL Com. 181. 



* Fost 274. Eden. 2ia 
^ Id. 182. Fost. 279. 



Z Fost. 258. 



>" 4. BL Com. 182. Fost 363. 



LECTURES ON LAW. S7 

a part of it* He has, it is true, his pardon, and a writ 
for restoring his goods, as a matter of course^ when he 
pays the fees for them. ^ Sir William Blackstone seem* 
to make an apology for this forfeiture, by observing, that^ 
in the- case of homicide by misadventure, the law pre- 
sumes negligence, or, at least, a want of suiEcient caution^ 
in him who was so unfortunate as to commit it i who^ 
therefore, is not altogether faultless. . The law itself is 
severe in this instance— confessedly so : but the apology 
for it seems to be founded on a principle, rigorous and 
totally inadmissible. 

Shall the unfortunate be necessarily viewed as also 
incautious ? Shall negligence be presumed by the law, 
when misadventure has been found by the jury ? No. 
The doctrine is inadmissible. It is rigorous. Accidents 
of this lamentable kind may be the lot of the wisest and 
most cautious, and of the best and most humane among 
men : they most frequently happen among those who are 
relations or friends ; because those associate most fre- 
quendy together. In such cases, to ascribe the calamity 
to a conduct *' not altogether faultless ;" to " presume 
negligence," when nothing existed but bitter misfortune, 
would, indeed, be to ^' heap affliction upon the head of tho 
^icted," and to stab afresh a heart still bleeding with 
its former wound. It would be to aggravate the loss of 
even a brother, a parent, a child, a wife ; if of aggra- 
vation such a loss,' in such circumstances, is susceptible. ^ 

The law itself, in this instance, is, as has been men- 
tioned, severe — confessedly so. The fees of office' have 
probably, in this as in too many other instances, prevented 

' 4. BL Com. 188. J Id. 186. k Fost 264, 



t 
I 



88 LECTURES OH LAW. 

improvement. ^ I therefore think,'^ to use the expres- 
sions of a great, master of criminal law, " those judges, 
who have taken general verdicts of acquittal in plain 
cases of homicide by misfortune, have not been to blame. 
They have, to say the worst, deviated from ancient 
practice in favour oi innocence, and have prevented an 
expense of time and money, with which an applicatioif 
to the great seal, though in a matter of course, as this 
undoubtedly is, must be . constantly attended." * It is 
proper to pbserve that this late practice of the judges is 
mentioned by Sir William Blackstone, in terms which 
intimate his approbation. " 

IV. Excusable homicide is that which, on a sudden* 
affray" between parlies, is given in the necessary defence 
of him who wishes and endeavours to quit the combat. 
This is carefully to be distinguished, because it is mate* 
rially different, itoxxi that kind of self defence which is 
justified or enjoined to prevent the perpetration of tht 
most atrocious outrage upon one's person or habitation. * 

The species of homicide, which We are now to coin 
sider, though excusable by the benignity of the law, is 
^till culpable. It is done, when a person, engaged in a 
sudden affray, quits the combat before a mortal woun<i 
is given, and retreats or flies as far as he can with safety ; 
and then, urged by mere necessity, kills his adverssBy 
for the preservation-of his own life. ^ This species ap- 
proaches near to manslaughter ; and, in experience, the 
4;>oundary between them is, in some places, difficult to be 

' i Fo«t, 288. ' °» 4. Bl. Com. 188. " Post 276. 

• 4. Bl. Com. 183. p Fost- 27^. 



LECTURE! ON LAW*. 89 

discerned : it is marked, however, in the consideration 
of law. In both species, it is supposed that passion has 
Icindled on each side ; and that blows have passed between 
the parties. ^ But in the case of manslaughter, either the 
combat on both sides continues till the mortal stroke is 
given, or the party giving it is not in imminent danger: 
whereas, in the case of excusable homicide, he who is 
excused declines, before a mortal strok'e given, any further 
combat, and retreats as far as he can with safety ; and 
Aen, through mere necessity, and to avoid immediate 
death, kills his adversar}'. ^ 

Though this species of homicide is very different from 
that which happens by misfortune ; yet the judges, in one 
as well as the other, permit, if not direct, a general verdict 
of acquittal. ^ 

y. To alleviated homicide, the term manslaughter is 
appropriated. When the epithet alleviated h applied to this 
species of homicide, it must be understood only as com- 
pared with that which is malicious : for manslaughter, 
though in this view an alleviated, is a felonious homicide. 
tt is the unlawful killing of another, without malice ; and 
may be either voluntarily, upon a sudden heat or provo- 
cation ; or involuntarily, but in the commission of some 
unlawful act. Wheh manslaughter is voluntary, it is 
distinguished from excusable homicide by this criterion-— 
that, in the latter case, the killing is through necessity, 
and to avoid immediate death ; whereas, in the former, 
there is no necessity at all ; it being a sudden act of re- 
venge. When manslaughter is involuntary, it is distin- 
guished from homicide by misfortune by this criterion—- 

4 Fost. 275. srr. 4. BL C<nn. 185. r 4. BL Com. 188. 

^OL. III. K 



90 LECTURES ON LAllT. 

that the latter always happens in consequence- of ^alawfuly 
the former, in consequence of an unlawful act. I\f iasi« 
slaughter, both voluntary and involuntary, is distingui$Ii« 
ed from malicious homicide 1)y this criteripiv— -that tho 
latter is with, the former without, malice. 

■ 

In England, manslaughter is punished by burning in 
the hand, and by the forfeiture of goods and chattels. * 
In the United States, it is punished by a fine not exceed- 
ing one thousand dollars, and by imprisonment not ex- 
ceeding three years. ^ In Pennsylvania, ^ it is punishedi^y 
a fine at the discretion of the court, and by imprisonment 
not exceeding two years ; and the offender shall find secu- 
rity for his good behaviour during life. ^ 

VI. To malicious homicide the term murder is appro- 
priated by the law. This name was, in ancient times, 
applied only to the secret kiUing of another; for which 

s 4. Bl. Com. 193. ' LawsU.S. l.cong.S. aess.c.9.8.r. 

' ^ 1. Laws. ?enn. 846. 

^ llie punishment of voluntary m^mslaughter, by the act of 2Sd 
April, 1794, (3. Laws* Pei^n. 601. s. 7.) is, for the first offence, im- 
prisonment at hard labour, not less than two, nor more than ten 
years ; and the offender shall be sentenced likewise to give security 
for his good behaviour during life, or for any less time, accprding to 
the nature and enormity 6f the offence. For the second ofience, he 
shall be imppspned as aforesaid not less than six, nor more than 
fourteen years. In cases of involuntary manslau^ter, th^ prosecu- 
tor for the commonwealth may, with the leave of the court, wave the 
felony, and charge the person with a misdemeanor ; who, on con- 
viction, shall be fined and impi^soned as in cases of misdemeanor ; 
or the proMcutor may charge both o£fences in the indictment ; and 
the jury may in such case acquit the party of one, and find him goiRy 
of tlie other charge. 3. Laws. Penn. 601. s* 8. EtL 



LECTURES ON LAW. . 91 

Ae viU or hundred where it was committed was heavily 
amerced. This amercement was called murdrum^ This 
expression is now applied to the crime ; and the crime 
is now considered in a very diflFerent, and much more 
extensive point of view, without regarding whether the< 
person killed was killed openly or secretly, w - 

Murder is the unlawful killing of another with malice 
aforethought, express or implied. * The distinction, you 
obseTve, which is strongly marked between manslaughter 
and murder is, that the former is committed without, the 
latter with malice aforethought. It is essential, there- 
fore, to know, clearly and accurately, the true and legal 
Import of this characteristick distinction. 

There is a very great difference between that sense 
which is conveyed by the expression malice in common 
language, and that to which the term is appropriated by 
the law. In common language, it is most frequently 
usfed to denote a sentiment or passion of strong malevo* 
lence to a particular person ; or a settled anger and desire 
of revenge in one person against another. In law, it 
means the dictate of a wicked and malignant heart ; of 
a depraved, perverse, and incorrigible disposition. Agree- 
ably to this last meaning, many of the cases, which are 
arranged under the head of implied malice, will be found 
to turn upon this single point, that the fact has been at- 
» tended with such circumstances-— --particularly the circum- 
stances of deliberation and cruelty concurring— as betray 
the plain indications and genuine symptoms of a mind 
grievously depraved, and acting from motives highly cri- 
qgiinal ; of a heart regardless of social duty, and delibe*, 

«r i. Bl. Coio. V^i. . 0. 1»s. 4r. 



92 LtCTIXREfl ON LAV. 

rateljr bent upon mischief. This is the true notion of 
malice, in the legal sense of the w6rd* The mischievous 
and vindictive spirit denoted by it, must always be ccd- 
lected and inferred from the circumstances of the trans- 
action* On the circumstances of the transaction, the 
closest attention should, for this reason, be bestowed. 
Every circumstance may weigh something in the scale of 
justice. 

In England, in the United States, in Pennsylvania, 
and almost universally throughout the world, the crime of 
wilful and premeditated murder is and has been punished 
with death. Indeed it seems agreed by all, that, if a 
capital punishment ought to be inflicted for any criixikesy 
this is unquestionably a crime for which it ought to be 
inflicted. Those who think that a capital punishment is 
enjoined against this crime by the law which is divine, 
wUl not imitate the conduct of that Polish monarch, who 
remitted to the nobility the penalties of murder, in a 
charter of pardon beginning arrogantly thijsy— **No» 
divini juris ri^oremmoderantes, &c."* 

y 4.fil, Com. 194. 

» Murder, by tUe act of 22d April, 1794, is distinguished into tw6 
degrees. Murder of the first degree alone is punished with death, 
and is the only capital crime now known to the laws of Pennsylvania. 
Murder perpetrated by means of poison, or by lying in wait, or bf 
Any odier kind of wilful, deliberate, and premeditated killing, or com* 
mitted in the perpetration, or attempt to perpetrate, any a]*san,raptf 
robbery, or burglary, is deemed murder cf the first degree. AHother 
kinds of murder are deemed murder in the second degree. The 
punishment of this is imprisonment at hard labour, for a period not 
less than five, nor more than eighteen years. 3. Lalnrs. Penn. 599. 60Q. 
s.1.2.4. £d. 



LE6TU11ES ON LAW. 



9i 



VII« Treasonable homicide is committed by a servant 
who kills his master, and a wife, who kills her husband. 
Petit treason is the name appropriated, by the law, to this 
crime. It arises fropthe relation which subsists between 
the person killing and the person killed* The crime 
whichf committed by smother, would be murder, is petit 
treason when committed by the wife, or by a servant. 

The punishment of this crime, in England, is, that 
the man is drawn and hanged ; and the woman is drawn 
and burned, a By a law ^ ^still in force in Pennsylvania, 
persons conyicted of this crime, or of ijaurder, shall sufier 
as the laws of Great Britain now do or hereafter shall 
direct and require in such cases respectively. ^ 



"^ 4. BL Com. 204. 



*> 1. Laws. Perm. 135. 



c « Every person liable to be prosecuted for petit treason shall In 
fat«ire be indicted, proceeded against, andpanlshed, as is directed in 
other kinds of murder.'' Act of 22d April, 1^94. s. 3. 3. Laws 
Penn. 600. £d. 



* I 



CHAPTER V. 



OT CKIMEfi, IMMEDIATELY AGAINgT THE COMMUNITY^ 

X HAVE hitherto considered crimes, which wound 
the community through the sides of individuals : I now 
come to consider one which directly and immediately 
aims a stab at the vitals of the community herself. I 
mean treason against the United States, and against the 
state of Pennsylvania. 

Treason is unquestionably a crime most dangerous to 
the society, and most repugnant to the first principles of 
the social compact. It must, however, be observed, 
that as the crime itself is dangerous and hostile to the 
state, so the imp&tation of it has been and may be dan- 
gerous and oppressive to the citizens. To the freest 
governments this observation is by no means inapplica- 
ble ; as might be shown at large by a deduction, historical 
and political, which would be both interesting and in- 
structive. But, at present, we have not time for it. 



96 LECTURES ON LAW. 

To secure the state, and at the same time to secure 
the citizens — ^and, according to our principles, the last 
is the end, and the first is the means — the law of trea- 
son should possess the two' following qualities. 1. It 
should be determinate. 2. It should be stable. 

It is the observation of the celebrated Montesquieu, * 
that if the crime of treason be indeterminate, this alone 
is sufficient to make ' any government degenerate into 
arbitrary power. In monarchies, and in republicks, it 
furnishes an opportunity to unprincipled courtiers, and 
to demagogues equally unprincipled, to harass the inde- 
pendent citizen, and the faithful subject, by treasons^ 
and by prosecutions for treasons, constructive, capricious, 
and oppressive. 

« 

In point of precision and accuracy with regard to thm 
crime, the common law, it must be owned, was grossly 
deficient. Its description was uncertain and ambiguous ^ 
and its denomination and penalties were wastefuUy com* 
muuicated to offences of a different and iriferiour kind. 
To lop off these numerous and dangerous excrescences, 
and to reduce the law on this important subject to a de- 
signated and convenient form, the famous statute of 
treasons was made in the reign of Edward the third, en 
the application of the lords and commons. This statute 
has b«en in England, except during times remarkably- 
tyrannical or turbulent, the governing rule with regard to 
treasons ever since.^ Like a rock, strong by nature, and 
fortified, as successive occasions required, by the able 
and the honest assistance of art, it has been impregnaUe ^ 
by all the rude and boistrous assaults, which :have been 

■ Sp, L. b. 12. c r. 



LSGTUvllBa ON LAW. 97 

laade iq>on k, at different quarters, by ministers and by 
jiidgesL; and ^s an object of national security, as wel^ 
as of national pride, it may well be styled the legal Gi- 
braltar of England. 

Little of this statute, hawever, demands our minute 
^entidn now ^ as the great changes in our constitutions 
have superceded all its monarchical parts. One clause 
oi it, indeed, merits our strictest investigation ; be/cause 
it is transcribed into the constitution of the United States* 
Another clause in it merits our strongest regard; because 
it contains and holds forth a principle and an example, 
worthy of our observance and imitation. 

After having enumerated and declared aU the difler- 
ent species of treason, which it was thought proper to 
estiAilish, the statute proceeds in this manner : ^^ and 
because many odiier cases of li]ce treason may b^pen in 
time to come, which, at present, a man cannot think or 
declare i it is assented, that if any other case, supposed 
treason, which is not specified above, happen before any 
ju<^s, they shall not go to judgment in such case ; but ' 
Aa}l tarry, tkU it be shown aud (^clared before the king 
and his parliament, whether it ought to be judged trea- 
son or other felony." 

The great ^nd the gcx>d Lord Hale observes ** upon 
diss clause, ^^ the great wisdom and care of the parlia- 
imeiit, tp keep judges within the bounds and express 11- 
Bsiits qf this statute, and not to suffer them to run out^ 
Vffpn- their k\m opinions, into constructive treasons, 
^Hl^ iot cuaes. which seem to have a parity of reason" 



YOL. III. o 



98 LSGTURES on LAIT. 

— cases of like treason — **' but reserves them to the de« 
cision of parliament. This," he justly says, " is a great 
security as well as direction to judges ; and a great tafe* 
guard even to this sacred act itself." 

It is so. And it was all die safeguard which the pai*- 
Uament, by the constitution, as it is called, of England^ 
could give. It was a safeguard from the arbitrary con* 
structions of courts : it was a shelter from judicial storms ? 
but it was no security against legislative tempests. No 
parliament, however omnipotent, could bind its success 
sours, possessed of equal omnipotence ; and no power^ 
higher than the power of parliament, was then of is 
yet recognised in the juridical system of England. What 
was the consequence t In the very next reign, the fluc- 
tuating and capricious one of Richard the second, the 
parliaments were profuse, even to ridicule-^f, in si^^ 
a Serious subject, ridicule could find a place-— in enac^g 
new, tyrannical, and even contradictory treasons. Thii 
they did to such an abominable degree, that, as we are 
told by the first parliament which met under bis Bnc^tn^ 
souf*, ^* there was no man who knew how he ought to be- 
have himself, to do, speak, or say, for doubt of tht 
pains of such treasons." ^ 

In the furious and sanguinary reign of Henry the 
eighth, the malignant spirit of inventing treasons revivedi 
and was carried to such a height of mad extravagance, 
that, as we have seen on another occasion, the learned 
as well as the unlearned, the cautious as well as the Hb^ 
wary, the honest as well as the vicious, were entrapped 
in the sn^es* How impotent, as well as <truel ai&d lit* 

« St 1. H^. 4, Cb ia 



\ 




X.ECTURES ON LAW. 

coi^^ot, is tyr^UQAy m the extreme ! His savage rage 
r^ojle^t at son^e t^m^^, upon those who were most near 
to him ; ^it other ttia^es, witb more justice, upon himself. 
The beautiful a^ amiable Boleyn became the victim o£ 
that very law, which her husband^ in his fit of lustful 
pliasion«-^or the jutonster was callous to /^ve— -made for 
h^ s^urity* When the enormities of his life and reign 
were drawing towards their end, his physiciai^ saw their 
t3rrant in their patient ; and they refused to apprize him 
of his sittt^ioi^i, be$;a:y#p he had m^de it treasojti to predict 
his d^aith. 

4^44nQijaishe4 by tb^: hi^pry of such tiis^ smd tran^* 
a^dons as .these, wj^en legislators are tyraipits or tpols of 
tyrw^t& i estabUshi^gf UA4>€r thek ow^ coatrpl, a powe.r ' 
superiour to that of the legislature ; and availing theni- 
sf||ves of that power, more permanent as well as supe- 
riQ\i^.$ the people of thp United Stages hav^ wisely and 
hVL^nanely ordaine4> ^hat /^ tres^spp ag^nst the UAited 
States .shadl CQ^sist pn]ly i^ levyi^^ wa^ aga^Qst th^Qi, or 
in adhering to their e«iemie$^ giving them s^d and corn- 
fact."* 

. In this maimer, the citis^ens of the Union are aecurejd 
effeolually from «ven legislative tyranny : and in this in- 
stance) as in many others, the happiest and most approved 
example of oiber times has not only been imitated, but 
excelled* This single sont^nce comprehends our whole 
ist national treason ; and, as I mentioned before, is tran- 
scribed from a pant of the statute of Edward' the third. 
By those who proposed the national constitution, this was 
done, that, in a sufc^^ect so essentially interesting to each 

^ CdL U. S.art^ s. $, 



100 LkcfUHEO Off lAW* 

and to all, not a single expression shouM %e \vSx69i!W^^ 
bat such as coald show in its favcmt, diHt^ k vms rtcoi^ 
mended by the mature experience^ and aafcertanied by %he 
legsd interpretation, of nfttrae^ous revSblving eentim^sv 

To the examinattion^ and^o^sCra^tioii^ aand well 4^ 
signaled force of those pxpi^ssions, I «(ow sdKcit your 
strict attention. 

^^ Treason consists in levying waragaiiist ^ht ^fitted 
States." In order to understand this propositto^l^ secm^ 
rately and in all its parts, it may be necessary to give a 
full and precise answer to affl the fotlowiiig q^j^estfons. 

1. What is» Bfteant by^he exfyressite ^^teyying wfcr?'* 

2. By whom may %he war be levied ? 3^ Agiiast wlltoVft 
mutft it t>e levied ? • 

T6 each of these qttestionB I ciician to give an flttra W^r***- 
if possible, a satisftictory answer j Imt not Jn the order, Sia 
which they are proposed. I begin with the seco<id-*-by 
who^m tnay the %aT spoken of be levied ? It is such li Iraf 
as constitutes treason. The answer then is this ; ^e ^i^ 
must be levied by those who, while they levy it, are at 
the same time guilty of treason. This throws tils liack 
necessarily upon another qu6stio^-»^who onay commit 
treason against the United States \ To this the answer 
is'-^those who owe obedience to their au!thority. iBot 
still another question rises before us-— who sv e they that 
owe obedience to that authority l I answei^— 'those wbe 
receive ^pfrotection from it. In the m<Hiarchy of Gtrefit 
Britain, :prdtefction and allegiance ^e '^tniv^salty a^Iuftowoi 
kdged to be rights and duties recqirocal. The sam^ ifnm^ 
ciple reigns in governments of every kind. I use here 
the expression obedimee iaaleiKl of the expression aUe^ 



- .^ 



I I 



^iiwlf^ > ^ecwasfc^ in Eftgknd, '^Ifeglaxiee is tonsMerfed ttn 
€a&^ ^l^he%sfttt¥al:, ^ as well tfs to the taorM person oi* tke 
Midgi to *Aie ifnA«', as well as to the r^resented authority- 
of the nation. In tha United States, the OQlitority of the 
nation is the sole object on one side. An object strictly 
<!orre9pondiiig'to that) sfaoaM be the only one requik-ed 
' on the othet* side. The object strictly •eorresponding to 
anthority i», obedience to that authority. I speak, therew 
fore, with propriety mid accuracy unexceptionaUe, whea 
J S2y,^hat those who owe obedience to the authority, are 
tfodi as Ye^Ve llie protection, of the United States. 

This elose sei^ies ef inv^sdgation has led us to a 
^ifodard, which is plaiii and ^easy, as well as pfoper and 
adcnriN;e<^^-« standard, whfch every one can, without die 
possibility of a mistake, diseovei; by his experience, as 
ipll as by kk understaiiding — by what he enjoys, as w«U 
as by what he sees. Every one has a monitor within him^ 
which can tell whether he feels protection from the au» 
thofrity of the United States : if he does, to that authority 
he owes obedience. On the political, as well as on the 
aati^ral globe^ every point must have its a\itipode. Of 
d>edien€e the antipode is treason. 

1 have nbw shown, by whom the war may be levied. 
On this subject, a ^reat deal of leamingi, historical, legale 
said political, inight he displayed 4 and changes mi^t 
easily be rut^ on the doctrines of natural, and local, and 
temporary, and perpetual sjleglance. I pnrposely avoid 
-them. The rei^on i», that so much false is blended with 
so ^tde gettuhie intelligence, as to render any discovery 
you would make an inadequate compensation for youir 

e 1. BL Cmb. 371. 



im 



hZCTJSKBB Off hAWp 



trovdJe ia 8e»Pchtttg for ic. The rights aad ded^ of 
protection and obedience may, I think^ in a much tfion 
pfaan and dii%ct road, be brought itbme to t2ie boaom 
and the bixsittesb of every one. 

I noff proceed to another questioB-^^whal is meant 
by die expression ^^ levying war T'. Frojoi what has bi^ea 
said in answer to the former question^ 4in ansifer to thi» 
iB 90 far prepared as to inform us^ that the tens war 
caBDot, in diis place, mean such a «te as is carried on. 
between independent powers. The parties on one sklis 
are those who owe obedience. ^ All the curious and . 
extensive learnii^, therefore, concerning the laws of war 
as carried on between separate nations, must be thrown 
omt of this question* This is such a war as is levied by 
those who owe obediexice — by ciiizens; and therefore 
auasit he such a war, as, in the natnre of things^ citi: 
can levy. 



The indictments for tliis treason generally desci4be 
the persons indicted as *' arrayed in a warlike manner.*' 
As where people are assembled in great numbers, armed 
with offensive weapons j or weapons of war, if they march 
thus armed in a body, if they have chosen commanders 
or officers, if they march with banners displayed, or with 
drums or trumpets : whether the greatness oi their num- 
bers and their continuance together doing these acts 
may not amount to being arrayed in a warlike manner, ^ 
deserves consideration. If they have no sdlitary aii^a^^ 
nor march or continue together in the posture of warf ^ 
they may be great rioters, but their conduct does nM 
always amount to a levying of war. * 



f 1. Hale. P. C. 131. 150. 



s 10.131. 



LBCTVRSS ON I. AIT* , lOS 

WSncj with force and weapons invasive or defenstve, 
hold^nd defend a casde or forta^ainst the publick powers 
this is to levy war. So an actual insurrection or rebel- 
lion is a levying of war, and by that name must be express 
sed in the indictment. 

But this question will receive a farther illustratioti ' 
from the answer to the third question j because the fact^ 
of levying war is often evinced more clearly from the 
purpose for which, than from the manner in which, the 
parties assemble. I therefore proceed to examine the 
last question--— against whom must the war be levied i 
It must be levied against the United States. 

The words of the statute of treasons are, *^ If any 
one levy war against the king." I have before observed 
thiat) in England, allegiance is considered as due to the 
natural, as well as to the moral person of the king* 
This part of the statute 4>f treasons has been always 
understood as extending to a violation of allegiance io 
both those points of view'-^to the levying of war not cmly 
against his person, but also against his authority or laws.^ 
The levying of war against the United States can, for 
the reasons already suggested, be considered only in the 
latter view. 

The question now arising is the following— -I'S such 
or such a w^ levied against the United States f This 
question, as was already intimated, will be best answered 
by considering the intention with which it was levied.^ 
If it is levied on account of some private quarrel, or to 

'^ 3. Ins. la i 1. Haw. 37. 4. Bl. Com. 81. Fost 21^. 

j Fost 208. 



104 hBerUKtB 0M £AW. 

t^ke revenge of paiticular persDiw, it is not a vtm leVied 
against the United States* ^ A riaiing to. maintain, a 
private claim of right ; to break prisons for the release 
of particular persons, without any other eircumatanpe of- 
aggravation; or to remove nuisances which, afiect, or 
are thought to affect, in point of interest, the parties 
w|io assemble'^-this is not a levying of war againat the 
United States. ^ Insurrections in order to throw down 
4iU inclosures, to open ali prisons, to enhance the 
price of all lahour^ to exp^l foreigners in general, or 
those from any single nation living ujider the protec-, 
tion of government, to alter. the established law, or to. 
render it ineffectual — rinsurrections tp accomplish, these 
ends, by numbers and an open and armed force, are a 
levying of war against the United States. "^ 

' The line pf 4ivi$ioii between this species of treas«yi 
a|id an aggravated riot is sometimea very fine and dificult 
to be distinguished* In such in&tsmces, it is safest and 
most prudent tp consider the case in question as lying 
' on the side of the inferiour crime. ^ 

Tr^asoQ consists^ in ^^ adhering to the enemies of the 
United States, giving them aid and comfort*" By enemies, 
are here understood the citizens or subjects of foreign 
princes or states, with whom the United States are at 
«(pen war* But the subjects or citizens of such states or 
princes, in actual hostility, though no war be solemnly 
declared, are s|ich enemies* ° The expressions ^ giving 
them aid ^i^d com&rv" are explanatory of what is meant 

k Fost 209. 1 Id. 2ia " Id. 211. 213. 

* 1. Hale. P. C. 146* o Post 219. 



LECTUIIE8 ON LAW* 105 

by adherence. To give intelligence to enemies, to send 
provisions to them, to sell arms to them, treacherously 
to, surrender a fort to them, to cruise in a ship with 
them agsdnst the United States — ^these are acts of ad- 
herence, aid, and comfort. ^ 

To join with rebels in a rebellion, or with enemies 
in acts of hostility, is treason in a citizen, by adhering 
to those enemies, or levying war with those rebels* 
But if this be done from apprehension of death, and 
while the party is under actual force, and he take the 
first opportunity which offers to make his escape ; this 
fear and compulsion will excuse him»^ 

In England, the punishment of treason is terrible in- 
deed. The criminal is drawn to the gallows, and is not 
suffered to walk or be carried -, though usually a hurdle 
is allowed to preserve him from the torment of being 
dragged on the ground* He is hatiged by the neck, and 
is then cut down alive. His entrails are taken out and 
burned, while he is yet alive. His head is cut off. His 
body is divided into four parts. His head and quarters 
are at the disposal of the king. ' ' 

In the United States and in Pennsylvania, * treason is 
punished in the same manner as other capital crimes. 

/ 

t 

p Fost Sir. 1. Haw. 38. 4. Bl. Com. 82, 

■ Fost 216. «■ 4. BL Com. 92. 

s Treason against the state is now punished by imprisonment at 
hard labour, for a period not less than six, nor more than twelve 
yeia*s. 3. Laws Penn. 600. For the descriptioa of treason against 
the state, see 1* Laws Penn. 726. 2. Laws Penn. 83. Ed. 

VOL. III. P 



/• 



106 tECTURES OH LAW. 

A traitor is hostile to bis country : a pirate is th^ 
enemy of mankind— ^o*t/* humani generis* 

Piracy is robbery and depredation on the high seas; 
and is a crime against the universal law of society. Bjf- 
declaring war against the whole human race, the pirate 
has laid the whole human race under the necessity of de- 
claring war against him. He has renounced the benefits 
of society and government : he has abandoned himself 
to the most savage state of nature. The consequence 
is, that, by the laws of self defence, every community 
has a right to inflict upon him that punishment, which, 
in a state of nature, every individual would be entitled 
to inflict for any invasion of his person or his personal 
property. ' 

" If any person/' says a law of the United Staites^ 
^' shall compnit, upon the high seas, or in any river, ha- 
ven, basin, or bay, out of the jurisdiction of any pai** 
ticular state, murder or robbery, or any other offence, 
which, if committed within the body of a county, would^ 
by the laws of the United States, be punished with death J 
every such offender shall be deemed, taken and adjudged 
to be a pirate and felon, and being thereof convicted 
shall suffer death." * 

By the ancient common law, piracy committed by a, 
subject was deemed a species of treason. ^ According 
to that law, it consists of such acts of robbery and de- 

* 4. BL Com. n. 
m Laws U. S. 1. con. 1. sess. c 9. s. S. ▼ 4. 1^ Com. M. 



L£CTUR£S ON LAW< 



tor 



pp'edation upon the high seas, as^ committed on the land, 
-would amount to a felony there. ^ The law of general 
society, as well as the law of nations, is a part of the 
coininon law. * 



w 4. BL Com. 72. 



» Id. 73. 



> « 



'/ 



\ 



CHAPTER VI. 



OF CRIMEA, A^IECTING SEVERAL OF THE NATURAL 

RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS. 

I 

1 HOSE crimes and offences of which I have ak^adjr 
treated, attack some one of the natui'al rights of manpr 
of society : there are other crimes and offiencesi which 
attack several of those natural rights. Of these, nuisances 
are the most extensive and diversified. 

A nuisance denotes any thing, which produces mis* 
chief/ injury, or inconvenience. It is divided intotwo 
kinds — common and private, a The latter will be treated 
under the second division of my system : it is a damage 
to property. Common nuisances are a collection of per- 
sonal injuries, which annoy the citizens generally and 
indiscriminately — so generally and indiscriminately, fhat 
it would be difficult to assign to each citizen his just pro* 

« 3. Bl Com. 31^ 4. BL C«iii. 1€«. 



110 LECTU11S8 OH LAW* 

portion of redress ; and yet, on the whole, so ** noisome/* 
that publick peace, and order, and tranquillity, and safety 
require them to be punished or abated. 

On this subject, and, I believe, on this subject alone, 
the common law makes no distinction between a person 
and a thing. The Exquisite propriety, with which the 
distinction is lost in this subject, proves strongly the im- 
portance of preserving it in every other. The exception 
establishes the rule. 

How degraded are persons when they deserve to be 
classed with things ! We have seen, on aformer occasion,^ 
Aat-^l. The duellists and the promoters of duels are 
ranked with the offals of the sha m bles. The station is, 
indeed, a most humiliating one. Let no station, however, 
yield to absolute despair. From the very lowest depres* 
sion, as well as from the very highest exaltation, there is 
a f etum in a eofttrary c^gjrse. in pure compassion ior the 
degraded hero, let us give bim 9t least one gnule i>f pix>* 
motifHif P^^'bapst by vigoro^s exertion, he may be^oniie 
fnatified for his advanced dignity. Tbe quan:eUer or 
promoter of quarrels of one aex> may behave so as to 
reflect no great disgrace on the common scold of the 
other, Sbe^ ^<>o, U a cooMaon aui^aoce. 

3. A common «oold, says the law, is a publick nuiswce 
U> her neighbourhood : aa such she may be UE^lieted, and, 
if convicted, shall be placed in a certain en^e of cor*', 
roction, called the trebucket, ^uiatigatory) or cucAing sjtOQl » 
which, ia the Saxoa language, aigmfies the ncolij^ stool i 
though now it is freqM^^tly corrupted into 49iciing ftool; 



LBCTUltXS OH tAW« lit 

because the residue of thetentence agaitist her {9^ that 
when she is thus placed, she shall be plunged in the^vater^ 
—•for the purpose of prevention, it is presumed, as well 
as of punishment* 

Our modem man of gallantry would not surely decline 
the honour of her company. ' I therefore propose humbl)^, 
that, in future, the cucking stools shkll be made to hold 
double* 

3. Eaves droppers too, another set of honou^ble a<sso- 
^jttes-^such as listen under Walh, or windows^ or eaves 
of a house, in order to hear the discourse of the family, and 
from that discourse to frame tales, mischievous and sbin« 
derous — ^these are common nuisances : they may be in- 
dicted as such ; and as such maybe punished by fine and 
finding sureties for their good behaviour. ^ 

It is whispered to me, that the espression ^edvea 
droppers" must refer to a very early and a very simple 
state of society, when people lived in cabins or huts : 
because, when people live in three story houses, it would 
be rather awkward to listen at their eaves in order to ieam 
the secrets of families. It is therefore suggested, that, 
as the common law is remarkable for its adroitness in 
accommodating itself to the successive manners of suc- 
ceeding ages, a small alteration should be made in the 
description of this nuisance, in order to suit it to the 
present-times ; and that the tea table should be substituted 
in the place of the eaves of the house. I declare I have 
not the remotest objection to the proposal ; provided the 
wine tables, whenever they merit it, be of the party. 



c 



4. Bl Com. 169. ^ Id. ibid. 



119^ . LICTU&M OH LAW. 

« 

4. To keep hogs in any city or market townia a com- 
mon nuisance. « 

5* Disorderly houses are publick nuisances ; and, upoa 
indictment, may be suppressed and fined. ^ 

. . 6* Every thing offensive and injurious to the hesdth 
of a neighbourhood is a comm<Ki nuisance \ is liable to a 
publick prosecution ; and may be punished by fine accotrd* 
ing to the quantity of the misdemeanor, ^ ' 

7. Annoyanoes in h igh w ays , bridges, and publicfc 
rivers are likewise common nuisances.^ Other kinds 
might be enumerated. ^ 

Indecency, publick and grossly scandalous, may well' 
be considered as a species of common nuisance : it is 
certainly an offence, which may be indicted and punished 
at the common law. ^ , 

ProCaneness and bbsphemy are offences^ pnaishdbie 
by fine and by imprisonment. Christianity is apart of the 
common law. ^ 

* 4. BL Com. isr. f Id. ilnd. ^ IiLibld. ^ i^. i^a. 

" 1. Haw. r. 1. Sid. 168. Wood. Ins. 412. 

i % Str. 834. 4. Bl Con^. 59. i 



CHAPTER VII. 



• I 



^ OF CRIHJS8 AGAINST THE RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS 
ACqjJIRED UNDER CIVIL GOVERNMENT. 

Under civU govemmekit, one is entitled not only to 
thoae rights which are natural ; he is entitled to others 
iBi^hich are acquired. ;He is entitled to the honest admi- 
nistration of the government in general: he is entitled, 
in particular, to the impartial administration of justice. 
Those rights may be infringed: the infringements of thebi 
are crimes. These we next consider. 

1. Extortion is the taking of money by any officer, by 
colour of his office, either where none is due, or where 
less is due, or before it is due. At common law, this 
crime may be severely punished by fine and imprison- 
ment, and by a removal from the office, in the execution 
of whiclv it was committed. ^ 



TOL. ill. 



* I. Haw. ira 171. 



' / 



114 LECTURES ON LAW. 

2. Oppression under colour of office is a, crime of 
still more extiensive and of still more malignant import. 
Tyrannical partiality is generally its infamous assbciate. 
These, at the common law, may be punished with fine, 
with imprisonment, with forfeiture of office, and with 
other discretionary censure regulated by the nature and 
the aggravations of the crimes. ^ 

By a law of the United States, it is enacted, that if 
any supervisor or other officer of inspection of the excise 
shall be convicted of extortion or oppression in the exe- | 
cution of his x>ffice ; he shall be fined not exceeding five 
hundred dollars, or imprisoned not exceeding six months, ' 
or both, at the discretion of the court; and shall also 
forfeit his office. ^ 

5. Even negligence in publick offices, if gross, wiQ 
expose the negligent officers to a fine; and, in very 

notorious cases, to a forfeiture of office. <^ 

- 

t 

4. Embracery is an attempt to influence a jury cor^ 
ruptly, by promises, persuasions, entreaties,, money, or 
entertainments. The person embracing is punished by 
fine and imprisonment. The yielding juror is distinguish-- 
ed by superiour punishment.^ 

5a Bribery is, when a judge, or other person employed 
in the administration of justice, takes any undue reward 
to influence his behaviour in office* At common kw^ 

' b 4. BL Cora. 140. 
« .Laws U. S. 1. cong. 3. sess. c. 15. s. 39, .' 

4 1. Haw. 168. , e 4. Bl. Com. 14(K 



LECTI7REB ON LAW. Ill 

bribery, in him who offers, in him who gives, and in him 
who takes the bribe, is punished with fine and imprison- 
ment. In high offices, the punishment has deservedly 
been higher stilL ^ 

Bribery also signifies sometimes the taking or the 
giving of a reward for an office of a publick nature. 
Nothing, indeed, can be more palpably pernicious to the 
publick, than that places of high power and high trust 
should be filled, not by those who are wise and good 
enough to execute them, but by those who are unprin- 
cipled and rich enough to purchase them. ' 

By a law of the United States, if any person shall 
give a bribe to a judge for his judgment in a cause depend- 
ing before him; both shall be fined and imprisoned at 
the discretion of the court ; and shall for ever be disqua- 
liiied to hold any office of honour, trust, or profit under 
the United States. ^ ' • , 

6. Peijury is a crime committed, when a lawful oath 
is administered in some judicial proceeding, by one who 
has authority, to a person who swears absolutely and 
falsely, in a matter material to the issue or cause in 
(juestion* ^ 

An oath, says my Lord Coke, is so sacred, and so 
deeply concerns the consciences V>f men, that it cannot 
be administered to any one, unless it be allowed by the 
common law, or by act of parliament ; nor by any one, 

^ A.1SL Com. 139. k 1. Haw. 168. 

^ Laws U. S. 1. c«ng. % sess. c 9. s. 21. > 3.Iqs. 154 






116 VZCrUAES OH LAW. 

^ho has not authority by commoB law« or by act of par- 
liament: neither can any oath allowed by the comiiiQ]i 
law, or by act of parliament, be altered, unless by act 
of parliament. ^ For these reasons, it is much to be 
doubted whether any magjfitrate is justifiable in ^mi- 
nistering voluntar}' aiEdavits, ^unsupported by the autho. 
rity of law. It is more than possible, that, by such idl^ 
baths, a man may frequently incur, the guih, though ke 
evade the temporal penalties of perjury. * 

» 

It is a part of the foregoing definition of .perjury, that 
it must be when the person swears absolutely. In addi« 
tion to this, it has been said, that the oath must be direct, 
and not as the deponent thinks, or remembers, or believes.* 
This doctrine has, however, been lately questioned ; and, 
it seems, on solid principles. When a man swears, that 
he believes w^at, in truih, he does not believe, he pro* 
nounces a falsehood as much, as when he swears abso* 
lutely that a thing is true, which he knows not to be 
true. My Lord Chief Justice De Grey, in a late case, 
said, that it was a mistake, which ma^nkind had fallen 
into, that a person coulid not be convicted of perjury tot 
deposing on oath according to his belief. « It is certain- 
ly true, says my Lord Mansfield, that a man may be 
indicted for perjury, in swearing that he believes a fact 
to be true, which he must know to be false* ^ 

At common law, the punishment of perjury has been 
very various. Anciently it was punished with death ; 
afterwaxds with banishment, or cutting out the tongue; 

^ 3. Ins. 165. 1 Id 166. 1. Haw. 17S. m Lieach. 304. ' 

» Ltach 304. 



i 



LEGTUUBS OM LAW, 



iir 



filterwards by forfeiture j now by fine and' jmptUonment, 

and incapacity to give testimony. „ To these last naen- 
tidned punishments, that of the pillory is added by a law 
^f the ^ United States. ^ 

y. Subornation of peijury is the crime of procuring 
another to take such a false oath as constitutes perjury* 
It is punished as perjury. ^ 

r 
1 

8. Conspiracy is a crime of deep malignity against 
the administration of justice. Not only those, who falsely 
and maliciously cause an innocent man to be indicted ' 
and tried, are properly conspirators ; but those also are 
•uch, who conspire to indict a man falsely and maliciously, 
whether they do or do not any act in the prosecution of 
the conspiracy.* From the description of this critne it is 
obvious, that at least two persons are necessary to con- 
stitute it. * ' 

He who is convicted of a conspiracy to accuse another 
of a crime which may touch his life, shall have the fol- 
lowing judgment pronounced against him: that he shall 
lose Hberam legem^ the freedom and franchise of the law, 



• 4. BL Com. 137. 



i> 1. cong. 2. sess. c 9. & 18. 



q By a late act of assembler in Pennsylvania (6. Laws Penn. 513.) 
it is provided, that persons convicted of perjury, or subornation of 
peijury, shall forfeit and pay any sum not exceeding five hundred 
dollars, and suffer imprisonment and be kept at hard labour during 
^ny term not exceeding seven years i; and fiirtiber, shall thereafter 
be disqualified from holding any office of honour, trui^ or profit in 
ttie commonwealth, and from bejtig admitted as a legal witness ia 
any cause. £d. 



r 4. BL Com. l^r. 



• 1. Haw. 189. 



t Id. 193. 



lis LE€TURES ON LAW. 

by \rhich he is disqualified to be a juror or a witness, or 
even to appear in a court of justice : that his houses and 
lands and goods shall be forfeited during his life : that 
his trees shall be rooted up, his lands shall be wasted* 
his houses shall be rased, and his body shall be imprison*- 
cd« This is commonly called the villainous judgment • 
and is given by the commoo law. ^ By that law, aU con* 
federacies whatever wrongfully to prejudice a third pw- 
son are highly criminal. ^ 

9. Common barratry is another offence against 4he 
administration of justice. A common barrator is a com* ' 
mon mover, or exciter, or maintainer of suits or quarrels^ 
either in courts, or in the country. One act only wiB 
not constitute a barrator. He must be charged as a 
common barrator. ^ He is the common nuisance of soci- 
ety under a civil government. 

A common barrator is to be .fined, imprisoned, and 
bound to his good behaviour : if he be of the profession 
of the law, he is also to be further punished by being 
disabled, in future, to practise. * 

10. At common law, the embezzling, defacing, or 
altering of any record, without due authority, was a 
crime highly punishable by fine and imprisonment. ^ 

By a law of the United States, if any person shall 
feloniously steal, take away, alter^ falsify, or otherwise 
avoid any record, writ, process, or other proceedingi^ 

« 1, Haw. 193. V W. 19a w Id. 243. ' 

X Id. 244. y Id. 112. 



LECTURES ON LAW. 



119 



in any of the cojUrts of the United States, by means of 
which any judgment shall be reversed, made void^ or 
not take e^ect ; such person shall be fined not exceed- 
ing five thousand dollars, or ijmprisoned not exceeding 
seven years, and whipped not exceeding thirty nine 
stripes. * 

\ 

11. To obstruct the execution of lawful process, is a 
crime of a very high and presumptuous nature : to ob« 
struct an arrest upon criminal process, is more particu* 
larly so. It has been holden, that the party opposing such 
an arrest becomes a partner in the crime— an accessory^ 
in felony, and a principal in treason. * 

By a law of the United States, if any person shall 
knowingly and wilfully obstruct, resist, or oppose any 
officer of the United States in serving or attempting to 
serve any mesne process or warrant, or any rule, or order 
of any of the courts of the United States, or any other ' 
legal or judicial writ or process whatsoever ; or shall 
assault, beat, or wound any officer, or other person duly 
authorized, in serving or executing any such writ, rule, 
order, process, or warrant ; he shall be imprisoned not 
exceeding twelve months, and fined pot exceeeding three 
hundred dollars.** 



12. When one is arrested upon a criminal process, it 
is an offence even to escape from custody ; and this offence 
may be punished by fine and imprisonment. ^ But if an 

I Laws U. S. 1. coBg. 3. sess. c. 9. s. 15. 
^ 4.BL Com. 139. 2. Haw. 121. 
^ Laws U. S. 1. cong. 2. sess. c. 9. s. 22. 
« 2. Haw. 122. 



130 



LECTUKLS OV LAW. 



officer, or a private person, who has the custody of ao* 
other, permhs him to escape, either by neg^gence^ or, 
still more, by comiivance i such officer cm* private person 
is ctdpable in a much higher degree. He has not the 
natural desire of liberty to tempt — he has official obligab- 
tions to prevent it. If he permits it through negligence, 
he may be punished by fine : if he permits it by consent 
or connivance, his conduct is generally agreed to amount 
to the same kind of crime, and to deserve the same degree 
of punishment, as the crime of which the prisoner is 
guilty, a&d for which he is committed ; whether trespass, 
or feloi^t <^ treason. * 

13. To break a prison was, at the common law,, a 
capital crime, whatever might have been the cause, for 
wMch the person Ix^aking it was committed. The rea- 
son assigned was«-4nterest r^ipublicas ut carceres sint in 
tuto.^ Seldom is there reason to complain of the com- 
mon, as- of a rigorous law. In this instance, however, 
f^etc It unquestionably reason for complaint* The Miiv 
four complains of it as a hard law. Its severity was 
moderated by a statute made in the reign of Edward the 
second.* By- that statute, the l)reaking of a prison is 
not a capital crime, unless the par^ breaking it wso^ 
committed for a capital crime. But to break prison, 
when lawfully committed for an inferiour offence, is a 
misdemeanor, and may be punished with fine and im- 
prisonment. ^ ." 



14* A rescue is the freeing of another, by force, from 
imprisonment, or from an arrest. In the person rescuing, 

^ 2. Haw. 138. « Id.134. 1. Hale. R C. 590. 

« 2. Ids. 589. fi Id. ib.SL 1. Ed.3. i. 3. 

h 3.Haw. 128. 4.BLCom. 131. 



LECTVRK8 ON LAW. 121 

It is generaUy the same crime, as a breach of prison 
would have been in the person breaking it. There is, 
however, one exception : a person, who is committed for 
treason and breaks the prison, is guilty of felony only : 
he, who rescues him, is guilty of treason. ^ 

By a law of the United States, J if any person rescue 
one« convicted of a capital crime, the person rescuing 
shall be punished capitally : if he rescue one committed, 
for, but not convicted of a capital crime, or one com- 
mitted for, or convicted of a crime not capital ; he shall 
be fined not exceeding five hundred dollars, and im- 

9 

prisoned not exceeding one year. 

1 5. Offences against the courts, have always been consi- 
dered as offences against the administration of justice. 
By the ancient common law before the conquest, to 
strike or to draw a sword in them, was a capital crime :^ 
and the law still retains so much of the ancient severity, 
as only to exchange the loss, of life for that of the offend- 
ing limb. 

Ify while the courts in Westminster hall are sitting ; 
or if, before justices of assize, or justices of oyer and 
terminer, any one shall draw a weapon upon any judge, 
though he strike not ; or if he strike a juror or any other 
person, with or without a weapon ; he shall lose his right 
hand, shall forfeit all his goods and all the profits of his 
lands during his life, and shall suffer perpetual imprison- 
ment. 1 

i 3. Haw. 139. 140. 3 1. Cong:. 2. seas. c. 9. s. 33. 

k a. Ins.140. 1 1. Haw. 57. 3. Ins. 14«. 

VOL. III. R 



» " 



/ 



^N 



CHAPTER VIIL 



aamm 



OT THE PE1180NS CAPABLE OF COMMITTING CRIMES ; 
AND OF THE DIFFEllENT DEGREES OF GUILT INCUR* 
RED IN THE COMXIfiSIOK OF THE SAME CRIME. 

X HAVE DOW eDUBierated the crimes and offences 
kuowa to the comoHm law ; and have stated their punish* 
ments, as inflicted either by that law, or by positive 
statutes of the United States or of Pennsylvania. 

• 
When we come to a retrospect of this enumeration 
of crimes and punishments, we shall find that it is fruit- 
ful of much instruction, both of the speculative and of 
the practiced kind^ At present, let us 'consider who ai« 
capable and who are not capable of committing crimes* 
The general rule is, tnat all are enable of committing 
them^. Thi^ general rule wiU be best illustrated and 
proved hy ascertain^ its exceptions. W^ have seen 
already, that the common law mteasures crimes chiefly 
by the intention. The intention necessarily supposes 
the joint operiklions of the imderalanding and the will. 



> 



124 , LECTURES ON LAW. 

If the operation of either is wanting^ no crime can exist. 
In ideots, at all times ; in Ivinaticks, except during their 
lucid intervals ; and in infants, till they arrive at the age 
of discretion, the operation of the understanding is want- 
ing. In ministerial officers, in wives, in persons under 
duress, the operation of the will is frequently presumed, 
by the law, to be wanting. In all such cases, the law im- 
putes not criminality of intention. 

On this subject, I cannot now enter into a detail : 
suffice it to have mentioned the general principles, accord- 
ing to which the particular cases are classed and deter- 
mined. 

In the commission of the same crime, the law often 
distinguishes different degrees of guilt. One may be a 
principal or an accessory : a principal may be so in the 
first or in the second degree : an accessory may be so 
before or after the fact. In some crimes, there are no 
siccessories ; in others, there are none before the fact* 

The part acted by a principal is coexistent with the 
commission of the crime : the part acted by an accessory 
is antecedent or subsequent to it. 

A principal in the first degree, is he who personally 
perpetrates the crime : a principal in the second degree, 
is he who is present, aiding and abetting it. ^ 

An acce;3Sory before the fact is he who, though ab- 
sent when the crime was committed, yet procured, coun- 
selled, commanded, or abetted the commission of k;^ 

"^ 1. Hale. P. C. 615. kId.ibi<L 



, \ 



lictxjues oh law. tti 

an accessory after the fact is he who, knowing a crime 
to be committed, receives, relieves, comforts, or assists 
'the crimmal.^ " 

In treason, there arc no accessories either before or 
after the fact ; for all consenters, aider's, abettors, and 
inowing receivers and comforters of traitors, are them* 
selves principals. As to the course of proceeding, how- 
ever, those who actually committed the treasonable fact, 
should be tried "before those who consented or aided : 
for,^^ in a contrary course of proceeding, this inconvenience 
might follow, that those who, in other crimes, would be 
principals in the second degree, might be convicted, and 
afterwards those who, in other crimes, would be princi- 
pals in the first degree, might be acquitted. This most 
evidently would be absurd. , 

In trespass, and in cripies not felonious, all those who^ 
in felonious crimes, would be accessories before the fact, 
are deemed principals; and those who, in felonious 
crimes, would be accessories after the fact, are not con- 
sidered as having committed any offence. ^ 

The distinction between accessories after and accesso- 
j-ies before the^ fact, and between aiccessories and princi- 
pals, ought to be carefully and accurately preserved : for 
in many cases, there is a real difference between the de- 
grees of guilt, and a proportioned difference ought^to be 
established, where it is not already established^ between 
the degrees of punishment. 

The distinction between principals in the first and 
those in the second degree, though preserved in theory, 

1. Hale,, P. C. 618. ^ Id, 618. eld. ibid. 



wd sometimes m the course of proceedings on the trial, is^ 
Xievertheless, lost universally in the scale of punishments. 
He who watches, at a distance, to prevent a surprise^ 
which might defeat the execution of a concerted plan, ia 
punished equally with him, who, in the execution of it, 
uses the assassinating poignard, not necessary, not ge- 
nerally i|)tended> but deemed solely by him who uses it 
aSf in some measure, contributing to the principal and 
the conperted purpose. In such an-immense disparity of 
gi^ilt, there ought to be a disparity of punishment. 

These reflections receive support from considerations 
of utility, as well as from those of intrinsick justice. 
When, a number confederate in a common enterprise, 
jNrhose supposed advantages are to be equally participated. 
It is their effort to share ^nly an equal proportion of the 
danger, as they are to receive only an equal proportion of 
the gain. This effort, instead of being countenanced by 
measuring the same punishment to all who act any part 
in the concerted enterprise, should be counterworked by 
graduating the punishment according to the part which 
each has acted. If the principal^ who personally perpe- 
trate^ the crime — ^for there is generally a capital part 
to be acted by some one — is distinguished, in punishment, 
from those who are only present, aiding and abet- 
ting the common adventure ; this will increase the diffi- 
culty pf finding one, who will act this capital and con- 
spicuous part; as his danger will become greater in 
proportion to, the greater severity of his punishment. 

• 

Besides; where there is society in danger, there is 
society in exertion ; for even in criminal enterprises the 
social nature is not lost* Let one be selected, solitary^ 
to perpetrate a crime and to suffer a punishment, in the 



LEOTURSS ON LAW. 127 

paia and guilt of which none are to be involved but him- 
self ; he will no longer be buoyed up on a' fluid surround- 
ing him at an equal level ; and as it sinks down from 
him, he will sink down to it. Among associates in 
crimes, the law should sow the seeds of dissension. 

Misprision consists in the concealment of a crime, 
which ought to be revealed, r 

By a law of the United States, misprision of treason 
is punished with* a line not exceeding a thousand dollars, 
and imprisonment not exceeding seven years ; ^ and mis- 
prision of felony, with imprisonment not exceeding three 
years, and a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars. 

The receiving of goods, known to be stolen, is a high 
misdemeanor at the common law. By a law of the United 
States, it is punished in the same manner as larceny. ^ 

Theft-bote, or the receiving again of one's goods 
which have been stolen, or other amends, upon an agree- 
ment not to prosecute, was formerly held to render one 
an accessory to the larceny : it is now punished only with 
fine and imprisonment. But merely to receive the goods 
again is no offence, unless some favour be shown to the , 
thief. . 

On the subject, concerning principals and accessories, 
as well as on the former, concerning the incapacity of 
guilt, I cannot now enter into a detail : suffice it here, 
as it sufficed there, to mention the general principles 
which will govern and illustrate the particular instances. 

^ 3. Ins. 36. 4. BL Com. 119. « Laws U. S. 1. con. 2. aess. c 9. s. 2. 



kids. 6. iM.g.ir. M.Haw.l25. 



/ 



I. 



CHAPTER IX. 



OF THE DI&ECT MXANB 0SED BY THE LAW TO PXEVEIfT 

OPFENCES. 



■ 
1 



X SHOULD now, according to my general plan, "point 
out the different steps, prescribed by the law, for appre- 
hending, detaining, trying, and punishing offenders.'' But 
it will be proper first to consider a short, though a very 
interesting, title of the criminal law— *the direct means 
which it uses to prevent offences. 

These are, security for the peace ; security for the good 
behaviour ; and the peaceful, but active and authoritative 
interposition of every citizen, much more of everj^ publick 
officer of peace, to prevent the commission of threatened, 
or the completion of inchoate crimes. 

1. Security for the peace consists in being bound, 
alone, or with one or more sureties, in an obligation for 
an ascertained sum, with a condition subjoined that the 

VOL* JXI« 8 



130 LECTURES ON LAW. 

obligation shall be void, if the party shall, during the time 
limited, keep the peace towards all the citizens, and par- 
ticularly towards him, on whose application the security 
is taken** 

Whenever a person has just cause to fear that another 
will kill, or beat, or imprison him, or bum his house, or 
will procure others to do such mischief to his person or 
habitation ; he may, against such person, 4emand securi^ 
for the peace ; and eyery justice of the peace is bound to 
grant it, when he is satisfied, upon oath, that the party 
demaading it is, and has just reason to be, under such fear ; 
and that the security is not demanded from malice, nor 
for vexation. ^ Upon many occasions, a justice of the 
peace may officially take security for the peace, though no 
one demand it. He may take it of tl>ose who, in his pre^ 
sence, shall make an affray, or shall threaten to kill or beat 
any person, or shall contend together with hot words, or 
shall go about with unusual weapons or attendants, to the 
terrour of the citizens. ^ 

If the party to be bound is in the presence of the 
justice, and will not find such sureties as are required f 
he may be immediately committed for his disobedience, 
and until he find them : but if he is absent, he cannot be 
committed without a warrant to find sureties. 'I'his war- 
rant should be under seal, and should mention on whose 
application, and for what cause, it is granted, d 

The obligation or recognisance to keep the peace may 
be forfeited by any actual violence to the person of an-* 

,, 1. Haw. 129. 4. Bl.€om. 249. ^ 1. Haw. IST. 

* Id. 426. 4 14, 135. 



LECTURES ON LAW. 



131 



•ther, tvhether don^ by the party himself, or by others 
through his procurement : it maybe forfeited by any un- 
lawful assembly to the terrour of the citizens ; and even 
by words tending directly to a breach of the peace, as by 
challenging one to fight, or, in his presence, threatening 
to beat him. But it is not forfeited by words merely of 
heat and choler; nor by^a bare trespass on the land^ or 
goods of anotjher, unaccompanied with violence to his 
person. • , 



. I 



2. Security for the good behaviour includes security 
for the peace and more j but they are of great affinity with 
each other ; and both may be contained in the same re- 
cognisance. It is not easy, upon this subject, to find 
precise rules for the direction of the magistrate : much is 
left to his own discretion; It seems, however, that he 
may be justified in demanding this security from those, 
vrhose characters he shall have just reason to suspect as 
scandalous, quarrelsome, or dangerous. 



It has been said, that whatever is a good cause for 
* binding a man to his good behaviour, will be a good cause 
likewise to forfeit his recognisance for it. But this rule 
is too large. One is bound, to prevent what may never 
happen: he is bound for giving cause of alarm ; not for 
having done any mischief. His recognisance, however, 
may certainly be broken by the commission of any actual 
misbehaviour, for the prevention of which it was taken, f 

3. I have mentibned the peaceful, but active and au- 
thoritative interposition of every citizen, much more of 
every publick officer of the peace, is a nieans for prevent- 



•» • / 



c 1. Haw. 130. 131. 



Ud. 129. 131. 



132 LECTURES ON LAW. ' ♦^ 

ing the commission o£ threatened, and the cotiTpletion of 
inchoate crimes. This subject has not received the atten- 
tion, which it undoubtedly merits ; nor has it b'een viewed 
in that striking light, in which it ought to be considered. 

In every citizen, much more in every publick officer 
of peace and justice, the whole authority of the law is 
vested — ^to every citizen, mu<;h more to every publick 
officer of peace an4 justice, the whole protection of the 
law is extended, for the all-important purpose of prevent- 
ing crimes. From every citizen, much more from every 
publick officer of peace and justice, the law demands the 
performance of that duty, in performing which they are 
clothed with legal authority, and shielded by legal pro* 
tection. 

The preservation of the peace and the security of 
society has, in every stage of it, been an object peculiarly 
favoured by the. common law. To accomplish this object> 
we can trace, througlj the different periods of society, 
regulations suited to its different degrees of simplicity, or 
of rudeness, or of refinement. 

The much famed law of deeennaries, by which, in 
small districts, all were reciprocally bound for the good 
behaviour of all, was well adapted to the age of the ^eat 
Alfred, when commerce was little known, and the habits 
and rules of enlarged society were not introduced. 

In times more turbulent, precautions for the security 
of the citizens were taken, more fitted to those turbulent 
times. The statute of Winchester, made in the thirteenth 
year of the reign of Edward the first, contains many 
regulations upon this subject ; but they were regulation& 



LECTURES OH LAW. 133 

for enforcing the " ancipnt police" of the kingdom;' and 
* their design is expressly declared to have been, to prevent 
the increase of crimes ; or, in the language of that day, 
** to abate the power of felons." 

Fbr the purposes of prevention, it was directed, that, 
in great walled towns, the gates should be shut from the 
setting to the rising of the sun : that, during that <time, 
watches, as had been ybrw^r/j/ used, should, in proportion 
to the number of inhabitants, watch continually : that if 
any stranger passed by, these watches should arrest and 
detain^him till the morning: and that if any one resisted 
the arrest, hue and cry should be raised ; and those, who 
kept watch, should follow the hue and cry from town to 
town, till the offender was taken. Every week, or at least 
every fifteenth day, the bailiffs of towns were obliged to 
make inquiry concerning all who lodged in the suburbs ; 
and if they found any who lodged or received persons, 
of whom it was suspected that they were " persons 
against the peace," they were to do what was right in 
the matter. J* 

The hue and cry was an institution of the common 
law : the Mirrour, speaking of the ancient laws before the 
conquest, makes express mention of pursuit from town to 
town at the hue and cry« The passage is very remark- 
able, and deserves, on many accounts, to be transcribed , 
at large. It is a part of that section which has for it« 
title — ^^ the first constitutionis ordained by the ancient 
kings, from King Alfred." Among others are introduced 
the following articles — " Every one of the age of fourteen 
years and upwards shall be ready to kill capital offenders 

, 1. Reev. 442. ^ St 13. Ed. 1. c. 4. 



134 LECTURES ON LAW. 

• 

ifi their notorious crimes, or to pursue them from towA 
to town at hue and cry." " If they can neither kill nor 
apprehend them, they shall take care to have them put in 
the exigent, in order that they may outlaw or banish them 
in the following manner," &c. * 

If a man, who is under a recognisance \o keep the 
peace, beat or fight with one who attempts to kill any 
stranger ; it is not a forfeiture of his recognisance.^ 

If, as we have seen upon a former occasion, ^ a person 
who interposes to part the combatants in a sudden affray, 
and gives notice to them of his friendly intention, be 
assaulted by them or either of them, and, in the struggle, 
should happen to kill ; this wiH be justifiable homicide. 
On the other hand, if this person be killed by the com- 
batants, or either of them, it will be murder. To preserve 
the publick peace, and to prevent miichref, it is the duty 
of every man, in su<:h cases, to interpose. 

/ 
When the law enjoins a duty, it both protects and 

.authorizes the discharge of it. Ministers of justice, it 
will be admitted on all hands, are, while in the execution 
of their offices, under the peculiar protection of the law. 
Without such protection, the publick peace and tranquil- 
lity could not, by any means, be preserved. But this 
peculiar protection of the law is not confined personally 
to one, who is a minister of justice : it is extended to all 
those who come in aid of him, and afford their assistance 
for the preservation of the peace. Even all those who 
attend for that purpose are under,the same protection. It 

i 4. Coil Ang. Norm. 487. J 1. Haw. 131. 

^ Ante. p. 85.86. ^ Fost.275. 



LECTURES OM LAW. 



13S 



is immaterial whether they were orVere not commanded 
to rendcfr their service upon the occasion. This peculiar 
protection of the law extends still farther. It reaches to 
private persons who, though no minister of justice be pre- 
sent, interpose for preventing mischief in the case of an. 
affray. They are in the discharge of a duty which the 
law requires. The law is their warrant ; and they ma;^ 
justly be considered as persons employed in the publick 
* service, and in the advancement of justice, m 

If so, in the case of an affray,, in which, on each side, 
the same disposition is shown ; much more so, in a case 
of premeditated, concerted, planned, prepared, riotous^ 
felonious, and treasonable outrage, on one side — connived 
at, perhaps countenanced, by those in the administration 
of the government. In such a case, the legal duty, the 
legal authority, and the legal protection operate with ten- 
fold energy and force. In such a case, the law may well 
be said to throw herself, without reserve, upon the arms 
of the citizens. In such cases, the citizens, with open 
arms, are bound to receive her, and to give her that pro- 
tection, which, in return, she confers upon them. 

'The application of this important principle of preven- 
tive justice is admirably fitted to small, as well as to tjie 
greatest occasions. If it was strictly made upon all occa- 
sions, the benefits redounding to society would be im- 
mense. The petulant ill nature of the boy, the quarrel- 
some temper of the man, the rapacious aim of the robber, 
and the malignant disposition of the assassin, would be 
, immediately checked in their operations. The principles 



m Fo8t.309. 



1S6 



LECTURES ON LAW. 



themselves, unsupplied "with fuel to inflame them,^wouldy 
at last, be extinguished. 



Thus much for the means, which the law employs 
directly for thd benevolent purpose of preventing crimes. 






^ 



CHAPTER X. 



Of THE DIFFERENT STEFS- PRESCRIBED BY THE LAW, 
FOR APPREHENDING, DETAINING, TRYING, AND PU- 
NISHING OFFENDERS. 

\ 
I 

A NOW proceed to the diiFerent steps which the law 
prescribes fot apprehending, detaining, trying, and pu« 
nishing criminals. 

A warrant is the first step ufluaUy taken for their ap- . 
prehension. 

A warrant is a precept from a judicial to a ministerial 
officer of justice, commanding him to bring the person 
mentioned in it, before him who issues it, or before some 
other officer having judicial authority in the cause. * Thi^ 
warrant should be under the hand and seal of the ma* 
gistrate issuing it : it should mention the time and place 
of making it, and the cause for which it is granted. It 

• Wood. Lw. 81. 1. Bl. Com. 137. 4» BL Com. 287. 
VOL. HI. T 



(' 



131 LKCToaet on lAir. 

' - % 

may be either to bring the party jneneralfy before any 
magistrate, or specially to bring him before the aoagis- 
trate only who grants it. It may be directed to the 
sheriiT, constable, or to a private person ; for the warrant 
constitutes him, for this purpose, an authorized officen^ 

By the constitution of Pennsylvania,^ no warrant to 
seize persons shall issue without describing them as 
nearly as may be, nor without probable cause supported 
fay oath or affirmation. Such warrant may be granted^ 
even by any justice of the peace, for treason, felony, or 
any other offence against the peacc^ 

When the warrant is received by the person to whom 
it is directed, he is authorized, and, if a pubtick officer, 
obliged to execute it, so far as the jurisdiction of the 
magistrate and himself extends. « ^ sheriff may depute 
others; but every other person is obliged himself to 
execute it ; though others may lawfully assist him. A 
wan-ant directed to all cons^a^les generafiy can fae exe- 
cuted by each only in iiis own precinct : but a warrant 
directed to a particular constable by name, may be exe- 
cuted by him any where within the jurisdiction of tke 
magistrate* ^ * 

, The execution of the warrant is commenced by an ar- 
rest; which is the apprehending or restraining of the 
person, whom it mentions or describes. ' But, besides 
those arrests which are made in the execution of warrants,' 
there are others enjoined or justified by the law. 

b2.HaWia5. e Art 9. 8.8. <iS.iiaw.84. 

« i. BL Com. 388. c 2. Haw. 86. s 4. BL Com. 386. 



» 



LECTVllES OH LAW. IM 

All) of age, who are fH*esexit when a felony is com- 
mitted, or when a dangerous wound is given, are, on 
^TLiti of fine and imprisonment, bound to apprehend the 
{>er8on who has ddne the mischief. ^ If the crime has 
been committed out of their view, they are, Upon a hue 
and cry, oUiged to pursue with the utmost diligence, 
and endeavour to apprehend him who has committed it. 
Hue and cry is the pursuit of an offender from place to 
place, iiU he is taken : all who are present when he com- 
mits the crime, are bound to raise it against him On his 
flying for it. £very one is obliged to assist an officer 
demanding his assistance, in order to apprehend a felon^ 
to suppress sm affray> or to secure the persons of affray- 
ers*^ In all these cases, the doors of houses may, if 
necessary, be broken open for the apprehension of the 
offenders, if admittance is refused on signifying the cause 
«f demanding it. ^ 

It Is a general rule, that, at any time, and in any 
place^ every private person is justified in arresting a 
traitor or a felon ; and, if a treason or a felony has been 
committed, he is justified in arresting even an innocent 
person, upon his reasonable suspicion that by such per^ 
son it has been committed. ^ If one see another upon 
the point of committing a treason or a felony, or doing 
any ^ct which would manifestly endanger the life of ano- 
ther 'r he may lay hold on him, and detain him till it may 
be presumed reasonably that he has altered his design. ' 
In the case of a mere breach of the peace, no private 
person can arrest one for it after it is over. "* 

^ ^ % Haw. 74. i Id. 75. J Id. 86. 4. Bl. Com. U% 

* 2. Haw. 76. > M. 77. » Id> ibid. 



14f LECTURES ON LAW* 

Whenever aui arrest may be justified by a private 
person, it may a fortiori be juscified by an officer of jus- 
tice. " In addition to their own personal exertionsvthej 
have a right to demand the assistance of others* ° A 
copstal)le may not only arrest affrayers, but may also de* 
' tain them till they find security for the peace, p A justice 
of the peace may, by parol, authorize any one to arrest 
another, who, in his presence, is guilty of an actu^ 
breach of the peace, or, in his absence, is engaged in a 
riot, ^ 

Whenever a person is arrested for a crime, he ou^t 
to be brought before a justice of the peace, or other ju- 
dicial magistrate. This magistrate is obliged immediate- 
ly to examine into the circumstances of the crime alleged; 
and according to the result of this examination, the 
person accused should be either discharged, or bailedi 
or committed to prison. 

If it clearly appear that no crime was committed, or, if 
committed, that the suspicion conceived against the pri- 
soner is entirely unfounded ; he should be restored to 
his liberty. *" 

To bail a person is tp deliver him to his sureties, who 
give sufficient security for his appearance : he is intrusted 
to their friendly custody, instead of being committed 
to the confinement of the gaol. At the common law, 
every man accused or even indicted of treason or of any 
felony wh&tevef, might be bailed upon good surety : for 
at the common law, says my Lord Coke,' the. gaol was 

» 2. Haw. 80. o Id. 81. P IdL ibid. 

*Id.»3. 'Id.8r. "2.108.189, 



LECTURBS ON LAW. t4| 

Ilis {dedgC) who jcould find no other : he could be bailedf 
till he was convicted. 

. This pdrt of the common law, however, is, in Eng- 
land, greatly altered by parliamentary provisions, which 
restrict, in numerous instances, the power of admitting 
to bail. Indeed it is pbvious, that between the taw of 

s 

capital punishments and .that of commitments, the con- 
nexion must be intimate and inseparable. In capital of- 
fences, no. bail can be a security equal to the actual cusp 
tody of the person : for what is ther^, which a man majr 
aot be indueed to forfeit to save Tiis life ? '. One court iii 
£ngland, and only one — ^the court of king's bench, or, in 
the time of the vacation, any judge of that court-r-«tiU 
possesses the discretionary power of bailing in any case, 
according to its circumstances; excepting only such 
per^i^s as are committed by either house of parlis^ment, 
while the session lasts, and such as are committed for 
contempts by any of the superiour courts of justice.^ 

To refuse or to delay bail, where it ought to b<; grant- 
ed, is a misdemeanor at the common law, ^ and may 
be punished on an indictment. By the, constitution of 
Pennsylvania,"^ it is declared, as an .inviolable, rule^ 
*' that excessive bail shall not^be required ;". and *^ that 
all prisoners shall be bailable by sufficient sureties ; un- 
less for capital offences, when the proof is evident or 
presumption great." 

If the crime is not bailable, or if the prisoner can- 
not find sureties, the magistrate is under the disagreea- 

t 4. Bl. Com. 294. n Id. 296. 

^ 2. Haw. 90. "^ Art 9. s. IS, 14. 



1451 £2CTt7RES ON LAW* - 

* 

ble necessity of ordei-ing, by a warrant under his hascA 
and seal and containing the cause of the order, that he 
shall be imprisoned in the publick gaol, till he be thence 
delivered by the due course of law.^ This is a com* 
Biitment. 

This, imprisonment, it ought to b^ remembered, is 
for the piJK'pose only of keeping, not for that of punish* 
ing the priiM>ner : he ought, for this reason, to be treated 
with every degree of tenderness, of which his safe cus* 
tody will possibly admit. In particular, a gaoler is not 
justified, by the law, m fettering a prisoner, unless 
Where he is unruly, or where it is absolutely necessary to 
prevent an escape. ^ *' Solent prsesides in carcere conti« 
nendos datnnare ut in vinculis contineantur ; sed huju8# 
modi interdicta sunt a lege, quia career ad continendos, 
et non puniendps, haberi debeat." • " Custodes vero 
gaolarumpeenam sibi commissts nonaugeant, nee eostoi^ 
queant ; sed, omni saevitia remota, . pietateque adhibita, 
judicia in ipsos promulgata debite exequj|ntur." » Such 
is the law of imprisonment, ancient and approved* 

. When the party is tafceii, and bailed or Imprisoned; 
the next step in order is, to institute a prosecution against 
him. This may be done by four different methods-— 
by appeal ; by information ; by presentment ; by indict- 
ment. 

1* An appeal is an accusation by one private person 
against another for some crime : it is a private action of 

» 4. Bl. Com. 2^. y«.Ins.34, 

>Qractl05. a. ^ Fleta. L 1. c 26. 



v. 



* LECTURES ON LAW. 14& 

the party injured, demanding punishment for the injury 
which he has suffered : it is also a p'rosecution for the 
state, on account of the crime committed against the 
publick.^ ' ' 

In ancient times there were appeals for a breach of 
the peace, for a battery, knd for false imprisonment, as 
well as 'for more aggravated injuries and drimes ; but 
they have been out of use, and converted into actions of 
trespass, for many hundred years, c 

■ 

An appeal lies for mayhem, for larceny, for arson, 
for rape, for death. It is brought by the party ravished f 
robbed, maimed, or whose house was burned ; or by the 

^ wife, or, if no wife, by the heir, of the person killed. ^ 
*An appeal may be brought previous to an indictment ; 
and if the defendant be acquitted, he .cannot afterwards 
be indicted for the. same crime : if he is foutid j^uilty, 
be shall suffer the same punishment as if he had been 
convicted on a prosecution by an indictment. ^ An appeal 
may be discharged by the concurrence of all the parties 
interested-^by the pardon of the crown, and by the release 

- of the appellant* 

The appeal can be traced to the ancient forests of 
Germany. '* Luitur homicidiuda,** says Tacitus,*^ " cer- 
to armentorum ac pecorum numero ; recipitque satisfac- 
tionem universa domus." 

^^ 4 Bi C©m. 308. 2. Haw. 155. « 2, Haw. 15?. 

^ 2. Haw. 164t 4. Bl. Com. 310. « 4. Bl. Com. 3iL 

^ ^ 1. Hate« P. C 9. s De mor. Gcr. c. 2L 



/ 
144 l£GTUR£S ON LAW. 



On this subject there is, in our la^ books, an immense 
profusion of professional learning. As the appeal is now 
but little used, I decline any minute inquiry concerning 
it : as it is still in force, it would have been improper 
wholly to have omitted it; 

2. A second mode of prosecuting crimes and offences 
is by information. Some informations are brought partly 
at the suit of the state, and partly at the suit of a citizen^ 
These are a species of qui tarn actions; and will be con- 
sidered when we treat concerning civil suits. 

Informations in the name of the state or of the crown 
alone are of two kinds : those which are filed ex qffici9 
by the publick prosecutor, and are properly at the suit of 
. the publick ; and those which are carried on in the name, 
indeed, of the commonwealth or crown, but, in fact, at 
the ins|:ance of some private person or common informer. 
The first have been the source of much ; the second have 
been the source of intolerable vexation : both were the 
ready tools, by using which Empson and Dudley, and 
-an arbitrary star chamber, fashioned the proceedings 
of the law into a thousand tyrannical forms. Neither? 
indeed, extended to capital crimes : but ingenious tyranny 
can torture in a thousand shapes, without depriving the 
person tortured of his life. 

; 

Restraints have, in England, been imposed upon the 
last species : but the first — those at the king's own suit, 
filed by his attorney general — are still unrestrained.^ 
By the constitution of Pennsylvania, both kinds are eflfec* 

h 4. BL Com. 303. i Id. Ser. ' ' * 



LXCTURES OW LAV^. 145 

tually removed.' By that constitution, however, informa- 
tions are still suffered to live : but they are bound and 
gagged* They are confined to official misdemeanors ; 
and even against those, they cannot be slipt but by Ibave 
of the court. By that constitution, ^^ no person shall, for 
any indictable offence, be proceeded against criminally by 
information^' — ^" unless by leave of the court, for oppr ei« 
sion and misdemeanor in office." . Militar}^ cases are 
also excepted. 

X 

• 3. Presentment is a third species of prosecution. A 
presentment, in its most -extensive signification, compre* 
hends inquisitions of office, of which the coroner's inquest 
is one: it comprehends likewise regular indictments, 
which are preferred and found. But, in its proper sense, 
it is an accusation found by a grand jury, of their own 
•motion, and from their own knowledge and observation, 
without any bill being laid before them by the prosecutor 
for the publick. This presentment is afterwards reduced 
-into proper form by the publick prosecutor; and in this 
form is sent to the grand jury, in the sangie manner asbiUii 
nvhich are originally preferred to them by that officer. 
These bills and this presentment, found in form, are 
indictments. 

When the grand jury, after having heard the evidence 
'adduced to support a bill, think it insufficient for this pur- 
pose, they endorse on the bill "ignoramus," and direct th6 
foreman to sign this endorsement. By this endorsement 
it is meant, that though the matters charged in the bill may 
be true, their truth is not sufficiently evinced to the jury. 
If the charge in the bill appears to be supported, it is 

1 J Art. 9. 9. 10. 
VOL. III. V 






s 

* 



"Vt 



146 LECTUEES ON LAV. 

then emlorsed ^ a true bill/' and as such is signed bjr the 
foreman. 

V 

/ 

9 

A grand jury must consist of at least twelve members, 
because twelve are necessary — ^it must not consist of more 
than twenty three members, because twelve are sufficient, 
to find an indictment ; and twelve would not be a majority 
of a greater number. 

At the common law, ^ grand jury caanot find an indict- 
ment f(H* any crime, but such as has been committed 
within the county or precinct^ for which they are re* 
turned. ^ 

A bill cannot be returned true in part, and false in 
{^art ; it must be returned ^^ a true bilP' or *^ ignoramus'^ 
for the whole. Nor can it be returned specially or con^ 
ditionsdly. ^ ♦ 

Much might be said concerning the form of indict- 
ments generally, and also concerning the particular form 
of the indictment for each particular species of crimes : 
but this/klnd o/ learning, ;which, by the by,, ought neither 
to be overlooked nor disregarded by the professional 
lawyer,. is found in full and minute detail in the nume- 
rous books and treatises of the criminal law* To these 
I beg leave to reff r you. To go fully into particulars 
woi^ld employ too g^eat a proportion of my lectures : to 
go imperfectly would convey no information that could 
be deemed regular or satisfactoty. 

Suffice it to observe, as a general and important prin- 
* ciple with regard to indictments, that as to persons, times, 

3.Haw.33«. 'Id.Sl«^ 



•♦. 



I* 



) 



LXCTURtS ON JLAW. 



147 



jattd places, and, aboye all, as to the descriptions of crimes, 
the most precise certainty which can be reasonably ex- 
pected is indispensably required. Certainty, indeed, is 
a governing add a pervading quality in all good legisla- 
tion;, and in all good administration t>f law. In this very 
important quality, the common law, pure and unadulte^ 
rated, has attained a very uncommon degree of perfection* 
I add, that the common law is equally remarkable for the 
simplicity as for the accuracy of its forms. I repeat it — 
they deserve the cl6se study and att,entioh of every lawyer 
hy profession. Even to others, who have leisure and a 
taste to inspect minute as well as splendid beauties, the 
forms of the common law will aiford entertainment and 
instruction. 

The' principles of the great institution of g^'and juries 
have been explained fully in another place. 

When a'person is indicted, and is not already commit- 
ted pr under bail, the next step in the legal arrangement 
is, to issue ^process against him, in order that he may be 
obliged to answer the charge, of which he stands indicted. 

On an indictment for any crime under the degree of 
treason or felony, the process proper to be first awarded, 
at the common law, is a venire facias^ which, from the 
very name of it, is only in the nature of a summons to 
require the appearance of the party. *" If this process is 
not obeyed, and it is seen by the return that he has lands 
in the county by which he maybe distrained ; then a dis- 
tress shall be awarded against him, from time to time, tilt 
he appear. But if the return shows that he iias no lands 



•» 5. Haw. 283. 



t4B LSt:TUR£S Ofr lAW* 

in the copnty ; then a writ of capias is awarded agamtt 
him. By 'this writ, as is intimated from its nsrme, the 
sheriiF is commanded to take the body of the person 
accused, and have him before^ the court at the time and 
place specified in the writ itself* If he cannot be taken^ 
on the first c^ias, .a second^ and so on, shall be issued* ^- 
On an indictment for felony or treason, a capias is always 
the first proc^s^. ** 

We are tol4 that, in the case of misdemeanors in 
England, it is now the usual practice for any judg^e of the 
court of king's bench, upon certificate of an indictment 
found, to award a writ of capias immediately agwist the 
d^fenda^t* ' 

1 * 

If the party abscond, and cannot be taken ; then, after 
the several writs have been issued against hi^ in regular 
number according to the nature of the crime with which 
he is charged, he is, at five county courts, proclaimed and 
required to surrender himself; and if he does not appear 
at the fifth requisition;, he is then adjudged to be outlawed 
— ^put out of the protection of the law. * 

When one is outlawed on an indictment for a misde- 
meanpr, he forfeits his goods and chattels. In felony 
or treason, outlawry is a conviction and an attainder of 
the crime charged in the indictment* ' Any one may ar- 
rest an outlaw for those crimes, in order to bring him to 
execution. He was formerly said "gerere caput lupinum," 
and might be knocked oh the head like a wolf, by every 

n 2. Haw. 28S. ^ Id. 284. P 4. BL Com. 314 

« 4. Bl. Com. 314. t U, ibkL S. Hale. P. C. 305. 



LECTURJBI OK LAW. 14k 

one who met him. But the law is now very justly holden 
to be otherwise* As to the security of his person, the 
greatest and the most notorious criminal is still under the 
protection, though liable to the punishment, of tlhe law* 
It is lawAil, as has been said, to apprehend him, in order 
to bring, him to legal punishment. But to kill him wan* 
tonly, wilfully, or deliberately, merely because he is oxi 

outlaw, is murder. ' 

<• 

The proceedings necessary to an outlawry are un<^ 
commonly circumstantial, and must be exact to the mi- 
nutest degree. Indeed^ it is proper that they should be 
so. The consequence is, that an outlawry may, in most 
instances, be reversed on a writ of errour. When this 
is done, the person indicted is admitted to his defence 
against the indictment. 

When a person indicted comes or is tm>ught before, 
the proper court, he is arraigned ; in otl^er words, he is 
called upon by his name, the indictment is read to him, 
and he Is asked what he has to say in answer to the in- 
dictntent. 

At this important crisis of his fate, when his life mky 
depend upon a word, and when, for this reason, every 
word should, as far as possible, be the result of perfect 
recollection and freedom, he must not be loaded with 
fetters or chains j he must not be brought to the bar in a 
contumelious manner ; he ought to be used with all the 
humanity and gentleness consistent with the situation, in 
which he unfortunately stands ; and he should suffer no 
uneasiness, except that which prbceeds from internal 

• J. Hale. P. C. 497. 
I 



I 

\ 



150 UBCTUltEB OK LAW. 

causes, ^ The judge should exhort him to answer wfdi* 
out fear; and should give him assurance that justice 
shall be duly administered. ^ ^ Cum captus coram jus- 
ticiariis produciendus fuerit, produci non debet llgatis 
manibus (quamvis aliquando compedibus propter pericu^ 
lum evasionis) et hoc ideo, ne videatur coactus ad ali- 
quam purgationem suscipiendam' 



M V 



Is it necessary to fortify, by authority, the law of hu- 
manity ? Sometimes it is. Sometimes the law of huma-^ 
nity, even when fortified by authority, has been pleaded in 
vain. The cruel vidation^as well as the benign observance, 
of the principles of goodness and law ought to be known 
and marked. The last should be approved and imitated ; 
the first should be detested and avoided, i In the pre- 
sent enlightened century— -and humanity should surely 
attend knowledge— a chief justice of the court of king's 
bench suffered a person in irons to be arraigned for trea- 
son, before him, though he was informed, that they were 
8.0 grievous as to prevent the prisoner's sleeping except 
in a singte posture, and that even while he was before 
the cQurt, he would be unable to stand, unless the gaoler 
—for the gaoler had more bowels than tUe judge — un- 
less the gaoler assisted him to hold up his chains. ^ 

It is usual to desire the prisoner to hold up his hand 
when he is arraigned. This formality is not improper^ 
because it serves to identify the perscw ; it is not neces- 
sary, because the person may be identified in. another 
manner. My Lord Bacon mefitions a Welshman, who 
put a curious construction on this ceremony. 

' 3. Haw. 306. " 3. Ins. 316. 

VBract 137. a. ^ fi. 'St. Tri. 23t 



LSCTVK£8 OH LAW. tSt 

been at a court, where he saw the prisoners hold up their 
hands at the bar as they severally received their sentences, 
he told oqe of his acquaintances that the judge was an 
excellent fortune teller ; for if he only looked upon the 
hand of a person, he could immediately declare what 
would be his fate. 

A person, upon being arf aigned, ,must stand mute, 
or give an answer. 

One is considered as standing mute, when lie gives 
no answer at all ; when he gives such an answer as can** 
not be received ; and when he pleads not guilty, but, on 
being asked how he will be tried, either refuses to 
say any thing, or will not put himself upon the coun- 
try, y 

» 

On standing mute, the judgment was indeed a terri* 
ble one— ^^ that he be sent to the prison from whence he 
came, and put into a dark lower room, and th^re be laid 
naked upon the bare ground, upon his back, without any 
dathes or rushes \inder him, or to cover him, his legs 
and arms drawn and extended with cords to the four cor- 
ners of the room, and upon his body laid as great a 
•weight of iron as he can bear, and more. The lirst day 
he shall have three morsels of barley bread without drinl^ ; 
the next day he shall have three draughts of standing 
water next the door of the prison, without bread ; and 
this to be his diet till he die.'' ' To the execution even 
of this terrible judgment some have submitted, that from 

forfeiture their estates might be rescued for the benefit 

•» 

» 3. Ld. Bac. ^9. • ^ 3. Hale. P. C. 316, * Id. 319. 



tSt t£CTUR£S ON LAVT* 

of tbetr children ; for by standtag mute, for£eilure and 
the corruption of blood are prevented. 

The origin of the peine fort et dure it is exceedioglj 
difficult to trace : it seems^ however^ to be no legitimate 
oflFspring of the ancient common law :. by that lav, the 
standing mute amounted to a confession of the charge, a 

By the law of Scotland, if the pannel stands mute 
and will not plead, the trial shall proceed as usual ; and 
it is left to him to manage his own defence, as he shall 
tKink proper* ^ The spirit of this law i^ adopted by the 
legislature of the United States* ^ ^^ If a person indicted 
shall stand mute,' the court shall proceed to his trials 
as if he had |ileaded not guilty, and shall render judg* 
ment accordingly." ^ 

t 

To an indictment^ the prisoner may give an answer^ 
or plead, as the law terms it, in a great variety of ways* 

. I. He may admit the facts, as slated in the indictment, 
to be true ; but, at the same time, may deny that die 
facts, thus stated and admitted, amount in law to die 
crime ch^ged in the indictment. This is a demurrer* 
Thus, if one is indicted for larceny committed by steals 
ing apples growing on a tree, he may demur to this indict- 
ment ; in other words, he may admit that he took the 
apples from the tree, but deny that the fact of takiaf 

» 4.BL.Coia.323. *> Bar. oa St 97. 

c Laws U. S. 1. con. 2. sess. c. 9. s. 3tK 

^ A siiKuiar proyision is ccmtained In an act of asasmbljr df Peiui<« 
sylvania. 3. Laws Penp. 119. Md. 



X.BGTUlt£8 OK LAW. 



153 



tiiem amouaits in law to the crime of larceny ; because 
ap{de8, unsevered from the tree, are not personal goods ; 
and because of personal goods only larceny can be com- 
mitted. This demurrer brings regularly Before the court 
tJic legal question, whether the facts stated constitute 
the crime charged in the indictment. When the prose* 
«ut;or joins in diiii demurrer — ^when he avers that the facts 
stated constitute the crime charged ; then an issue is said 
to be joined. An issue is the resuk of the pleadings in 
a single point, denied on one side and affirmed on the 
other. It is either an issue in law, such as has now been 
mentioned ; or it is an issue in fact, su<:h as will be men- 
tioned hereafter. 

I 
It seems to be taken for granted^ by many respectable 

%rriters on the criminal law, that if, on a demurrer to an 
mdictment, the point of law is determined against the 
|pi4soner, be shall h<ave the same judgment pronounced 
against him as if he had been convicted by a verdict* 
With regard to crimes not capital this seems to be the 
Case: but with regard to capital crimes, no adjudication 
is produced in support' of the opinion. My Lord Hale 
indeed says, in one place of his valuable history of the 
pleas of the crown, that if a person be indicted of felony, 
amd demur to the indictment, and it he judged against 
him, he shall have judgment to be hanged ; for it is ^ 
confession, and, indeed, a wilful confession of the in- 
dictment.* In another place, however, he tdkes a dis- ^ 
ttnetion between this kind of confession, which, though 
voluntary, is stiO extrajudicial, and that fuH and solemn 
confession, which will by and by be mentioned* An ex- 

e 3. Hale. P. C. Sir. 



TOL. III. 



ISA X.KCTU&E8 OMXAW. 

^trajudicial confession, says he, though it be in court, m 
where the prisoner freely discloses the fact, and demands 
the opinion of the court whether it be felony, will not 
be recorded by the court, even if, upon the fact thus 
disclosed, it appear to be felony ; but he will still be ad- 
mitted to plead not guilty to the indictment. ^ Thore 
seems to be a solid reason for this distinction : for though 
a demurrer admits the truth of the facts as stated in the 
indictment, yet it cannot be considered as an explicit 
and solemn confession of what is more . materild^-thc 
criminal and felonious intention, with which the fads 
were done* This criminal and felonious intention is the 
Tery point or gistj as the law calls it, of the indictment ; 
and should be answered explicitly and directly. 

II. This answer may be given by a solemn and judi*- 
cial confession, not only of the fact« but of the critne-^^ 
in the lail^guage of the law, it may be done by pleadin|p 
gmlty. 

Upon this subject of confession on the part of the 
criminal, three very interesting questions arise with re- 
spect to capital crimes : for of those only I now speak. 
1. Is a confession necessary i 3. Ought it to be made i 
3« Ought it to be received as a sufficient foundaticm 
for a conviction, and judgment against life i 

1« In many countries, his confession is considered as 
absolutely indispensable to die condemnation of the cri* 
minal. The Marquis of Beccaria conjectures that this 
rule has been t^ken from the mysterious tribunal of peia- 
' tence, in which the confession of sins is a necessary part 

f3.Ha]e.P.C.234u 



* 



AECTltRSS O^ LAW. 155 

i&i the sacrament : thus, says he, have men abused the 
unerring light of revelation. ^ This confession they 
endeavour to obtain by the oath, and by the torture, of 
Ae person accuseds He is obliged to answer interro- 
gatories. These interrogatories—^'we are told ; for of 
experience on thLs subject we are happily ignorant — ^these 
interrogatories are reduced to a system, captious, uncan- 
did, and ensnaring; and terrour is frequently ad^ed to 
fraud. >» The practice of demanding the oath of the 
accused is said, by the fanious President de Lamoig- 
non, to have derived its origin from the- customs of the 
mquisition. ^ 

Very opposite, upon this subject, is the genius of the 
Gentoo code* In that very ancient body of law, we find 
it expressly declared, that wherever a true testimony 
would deprive a man of his life ; if a false testimony 
would be ^e preservation of it, such false testimony is 
lawfulJ 

Between thode extremes the constitution of Pennsyl. 
rania ^ observes the temperate mean. " In prosecutions 
t>y indictment or information, a man canoot be compelled 
to give evidence against himselfi" This is likewise an 
immemorial and an established principle of the common 
law. 

In the ease of oaths, says Beccaria, which are admi- ; 
ntstered to a criminal to make him speak the truth, when 
the contrary is his greatest interest, there is a palpable 
contradiction between the laws and the natural sentiments 

t Bee c. 16. h 5, War. Bib. 321. ^ 8. War. Bib. 195. 
^ Geat. Lawi. 115. ^ Art. 9. s. 9. 



15d I.XGT0RBS OH LAW» 

of mankind* Can a man think hioMielf obliged to oott^ 
tribute to his own destruction? Why should he be 
reduced to die terrible altemadve of doing this^ or <tf 
offending against God i For the law, which, in such m 
^ase, jreqirires an oath, leaves hin^ only the choice of being 
a bad christian, or of being a mar^r. Such laws, conli* 
nues he, are useless as well as unnatural ; tbejr are Uke m 
dike opposed directly to< the course of the tcvient : it i» 
either immediately overwiielmed, or, by a whir^ool 
which itself forms, it is gradually undentttned and de« 
stroyed. ^ 

t 
If it is useless, unjust, and unnatural, to attempt the 
extracting of truth by means of the oath; whitt is it, to 
make this attempt by means of the torture i This, like 
the former, is happily unknown to the common law* 
This, like the former, can be tracied to the merciless 
tribunals of the inquisition. This, like the f<»vier, kttn 
been a practice both general and destructive* 

To the civil law, its origin has been frequently ascribed. 
My Lord Coke, in his third Institute, declares himself 
explicitly of this opinion* He says^ that in. the reign of 
Henry the sixth, the Duke of £xeter and the Duke of 
Suffolk intended to have brought the civil laws into 
England; and, for a beginning, first brought into the 
tower the rack or brake allowed in many cases by the 
civil law. "^ To systems, as well as to men, justice should 
be done* From the impuution of a. sanguinary as well 
as of a tyrannical spirit, the Roman law, at least in its 
brighter agea^ deserves to be rescued. The different 
periods in the history of that c^ebrated law should be 



tx€*tUM-EB oit law; Uf 

» 

eai«fully dMtiagtttshed ; and the redtiess or the btadkliestt 
of ome era oo^t not to »had^ or staia the purity and thci 
iflrplendour of anmhen 

' In ihe times of the repuUick, -toraare wa* k»>i«?li at 
Itotte ; and this, it must be owned, was too much t<ft M 
luiown any where. It was confined, howeter, to the^ 
slaves. The whok torrent of Cicero's eloquence was 
poured indignant upon the infamous Ve^ea, because hbi 
had the audacity as well as cruelty to torture a Roman; 
citizen, with his eyes turned towards Rome. ^^Cedec- 
batur vLrgisi in medio foro Messans civis Jlomanus, 
judices i cum interea nuUus gemitus^ nulla vox alia istiua' 
miseri, inter dolorem crepitumque plagarum, audebatur, 
msi haec, civis Romanus sum." — ^^ O nomenduke lib<&r« 
ta^! O jus eximium nostras civitati^! O lex Porcia, 
Icgesque Semproni^ ! O graviter desiderata, et ali^ando 
neddita plebi Romans^ tribunicia potestas ! HuGcine taa<* * 
dem omnia reciderunt, ut civis Romanus, in {M^viacia 
populi Rqmani, in oppido fcederatorum, ab eo qiti bette* 
ficio populi Romani fasces et secure haberet, detigatua 
in fpro virgis caederetur i Quid, cum ignes ardentesqiie 
laminae caeterique cruciatus adroovebantur?"" — ** Non fnit 
his omnibus iste contentus. Spectet, inquit, patriam : in 
conspectu legum Itbertatisque moriatui;." « 

In another place, the same exquisite judge of humam 
nature and of law describes, in the most masterly manner, 
the futility of that kind of proof, which arose from the 
tcnture -of slaves. ^^ Quaeationes nobis servorum, ac tor- 
menta accusator minitatur; in quibus quanquam nihil 
periculi suspicamur, tamen ilia tor mentagubematdblor, 

B Cic ia Ter. V. 63. 63. •ld.6C. 



tS8 LSCTVftXS Oil LAW. 

moderatur natura cujusque turn animi tutn corporis ; re^f 
quaesitor, flectit libido, corrumpit spes, infirmat metus^ 
lit in/tot rerum angustiis nihil veritati loci relinquatur.*' ' 

About three hundred'years after Cicero, the celebrated 
Ulpian; characterized as ** the friend of the laws and of 
Ae people," * speaks of torture in the same strain—" Res 
est fragilis et periculosa, et quae veritatem fallat. Nam 
plerique patientia sive duritia tormentormn ita tormenta 
contemnunt, ut exprimi ei^ Veritas nuUo^modo possit : 
riii tanta sunt impatientia, ut in quovis mentiri, quam pati 
tormenta relint. Ita fit, ut etiam varib modo fateantur, 
titaon tantum se, verum etiam alios comminentur." ^ 

* The earjy chris^ans also bore their testimony' against 
the cruel and absurd practice. ** Cum quaeritur,'* says St. 
Augustine, ** utrum vir sit nocens, cruciatur ; et innocens 
luit pro incerto scelere certissimas paenas ; non quia illud 
commisisse detegitur, sed quia non commisisse nescitur ; 
igBorantia judicis calamitas innocentis"—** judex torquit 
accosatum, ne occidat, nesciens, innocentem ; tortum 
et ionoeentem occidit, quem, ne innocentem occiderity 
torserat." * 

Among the modems, says a sensible French writer, 
the practice of torture has been adopted and carried to 
the last degree of atroeity, in those countries in whicK 
human nature has been most debased and most oppressed 
—I mean those of the inquisition : on the contrary, it has 
been abolished or moderated in those, in which the human 

• F (^c pro. P. SyL c 28. 4 1. Gib. 249. 

3.War.Bib.2S» • id.33. 



Ll^GTUKEft ON lAW. 



tS3 



ifiind has reaftsumed her liberty*— in Geneva, in fioglaad, 
in France under Lewis the sixteenth, ' 

• From what has been observed, the inference is clear, 
diat the confession of the criminal is mat ne^^edsary to a 
conviction or sentence in the case of a capital crime. 

2. In the case of a capital crime, ought this ponfesaton 
to be made? 

I think not. When I say this, I speak with a refe- 
rence to $he effect, which this confession is allowed to 
have by the common law. I am justified by authority ii» 
what I say. From tenderness to life, the court is usually 
very averse to the receiving and recording of such a con- 
fession ; and will advise the prisoner to retract it, and 
plead another plea to the indictment. ** If a person under 
the age of twenty one years make this confession, the 
court injustice ought not to record it, but should put him 
to plead. 710 1 guilty; oi^, at least, ought to inquire by an 
inquest of office concerning the truth and circumstances 
of the fact. ^ A confession, refused altogether, or received 
with reluctance, ought not to be itiade. ' 

3. Ought this confession to be.received, and consider- 
ed as a sufficient foundation for a conviction and judgment 
against life i 

By the common law, as ttjDow is and as it always ha» 
been received, such a confession is deemed a sufficient 



» 8. War. Bib. 197. « 3. Hale. P. C. 235. 4 Bl Ctm. 384. 
^ l.«alc.P.C.24. 



160 imcxvfKEU tm law. 

£nindatioii for a cosiricttoii and judgneiit agwist life. 
This express, judicta], and direct confessioa is considered 
as the highest possible conviction ;^ and after it is made 
and received, the coart does and can do nothing.but pro- 
' iiounce the judgment of the lav* ^ 

It now, I apprehend, appears from principle, as it 
appeared a fittle while ago from aathoritj, that, coi an 
indictment for a capital crime, this express, judicial^ and 
direct confession of it ought not to be mode* He who 
makes it undertakes to be the aifaiter of his own Hie : for^ 
as we now see, the judgment of death follows as a coo- 
sequence, necessary and unavoidable. A decision of this 
very solemn kind ought to be a decision of tike society^ 
upon the principles formerly explained, and not adect^on 
of ^the party himself. For such a decision he many be 
unqualified, sometimes -on account of his understandHi^ 
•Anetimes on account of his disposition. He may'tot be 
qyprized of every legal ingredient» which ought to form n 
part in the composition of the crime which he cpnileasaea t 
human conduct is sometimes inAnenced by an immolnfee 
impatience, as well as, at other times, by «m overweemai^ 
fondness of life. 



It is certaiidy time, diat persons have cxwifieased them'* 
selves guilty of crimes, of which, indeed, ihey were mno* 
cent. A remarkable case of this nature is mentioned in 
our law books. A gendeman of the name of Harrison 
appeared alive, many yeafis after three persons Jbad been 
hanged for his murder ; one of whoon con&sscd it* 

7 T>. per Pais. 603w 



N 



I^ECTURSS OK I.AW* 161 

Many persons accused have confessed themselves guiltjr 
of witchcraft, and of other crimes equally problejnaticaL 

By the civil law, the confession of the person accused 
is not sufficient to convict him of a capital crime, without 
other proofs : for it may so happen, that such a confession 
is dictated only by the inquietude or despair of a troubled 
mind*' Another reason may likewise be assigned: he 
ttay, by a mistaken as well as by a disordered under* 
standing, acknowledge that to be a crime, which in law* it 
not that crime. 

Thus much for confession, or the plea otgtulty to an 
indictmeBt. 

III. An indictment may be answered by a plea to tho 
jorisdiction of the court, in which it is found. This pleft 
is proper when an indictment for any particular crime is 
found in a courjt, which has no authority to hear, try, or 
determine that particular crime : as if a court of quarter 
sessions should arraign one on an indictment for treasoni 
of which that court has no jurisdiction* ^ 

IV. An indictment may be answered by a plea in 
abatement — ^in other words, a plea, the design of which 
is to destroy the indictment, without answering the crime 
-which it charges. This, in some cases, may be very 
proper ; as when one is indicted and called to answer by 
a wrong name. If he suiFer this mistake to pass unno- 
ticed,* it is doubtful whether he may not afterwards be 
indicted for the same crime by his right name. If the 
|dea be supported, the indictment will be abated ; but be 

VO]b» XIX. T 



162 I.XCTUESS OK LAV* 

niay be immediately indicted anew, by the name which 
he has averred to be his true one. ' For in all pleas in 
abatement it is a rule, that he who would take advantage 
of a^mistake, must show, at the ^me time, how that 
mistake may be rectified. 

V. An indictment may be answered by a plea in bar* 
A plea in bar does not directly deny the commission of 
the crime charged ; but it adduces and relies on some 
reason calculated to show, that the prisoner cannot be 
tried or punished for it, either on that or ea any other 
indictment* 

« 

A former acquittal of the same charge is a plea of thia 
kind : for it is a maxim firmly established by the com- 
mon law, that no one can be brought in danger oftener 
than once on account of the same crime« 

A former conviction of the Kime crime is abo a 
plea of this .kind ; and depends on the same princi|4e* 

An attainder of any capital crime is a good piea in 
bar of an indictment for the same, or for any other crime. 
The reason is, that by the attainder the prisoner is dead 
in law ; his blood is corrupted ; and his estate b f<»r£rift« 
ed; so that an attempt to attaint him a second time 

would jbe altogether nugatory and superfluous. 

» 

It is natural and obvious to remark here, bow the 
severity of punishn»ent becomes the parent of impunity 
for crimes. When one is punished, or conden^ned to be • 
punished, as far as he can be punished, f^ one erimei 
he may commit another, without any fear or risk of ad- 
ditional |Mi&i«hmeiit* 



LECTURES ON LAW. 



163 



In propCNTtioA as the criminal code becomes leiss"" se- 
vere, the operation of the plea of a former attainder, 
becomes less powerful ; for it is never proper, unless 
when a second trial could answer no purpose. 

A pardon is another plea in bar of an indictment ; 
for, by remitting the punishment of the crime, it destroys 
the ^nd which is proposed by the prosecution. In £ng« 
U^ad, an advantage is gained by pleading a pardon, which 
cannot be obtained by it after an attainder. A pardon 
prevents the corruption, but cannot restore the purity of 
blood. 



If anyone of these pleas in bar is successful, the 
party pleading it is discharged from farther prosecution ; 
but if they should all fail, a resource is still left. 

VI. An indictment may be answered by pleading 
not guilty of the crime which it charges. An issue, you 
recollect, is a point denied on one side and ai&rmed on 
the other. The plea of not guilty \^ called the general 
issue; because, on that plea, the whole charge comes re- 
gularly and fully under examination. It is averred by 
the indictment : it is denied by the plea. On this plea 
akme — such, as we have seen from the foregoing deduc- 
tion, is the benignity of the common law^ — on this plea 
alone, the prisoner can receive a fin^ judgment against 
him. A judgment of acquittal may be produced by 
many different causes : but a sentence of condemnation 
c^ be founded only on a conviction of guilt. 

When the prisoner pleads that he is not guilty ; he 
for the tri^ of his plea, puts himself upon his cMintry. 
The extensive and the emphatick import of tjiis cxpres- 



/ 



164 lECTURES ON LAV. 

ftion, neglected because it is common^ was fuUf iHustra* 
ted on another occasion. ** 

In ancient times, a variety of methods, by v^ich 
crimes might be tried, was known to the common law* 
. A trial might be had by ordeal ; and this species of trial 
was either by fire or by water* The corsned, or morsel 
of execration, was another kind of trial. The trial by 
battle was a third kind. A fourth kind still remains and 
18 our boast— the trial by jury. This trial, both in the 
United States and in this commonwealth, is a part of 
the constitution as well as of the law.^ 

The history and the general principles of this institu- 
tion, celebrated so long and so justly, have already beenT 
explained to you at large. I shall, therefore, confine 
myself at present to such remarks, chiefly of a practical 
nature, as will arise from the usual course of proceedings 
in trials for crimes. 

By the constitution of Pennsylvania,^ persons ac- 
cused of crimes shall be tried by an impartial jury of 
the vicinage : or, in legal interpretation, of the county. ^ 
By the national constitution,^ crimes committed in any 
state shall be tried in that state: and by a law of the 
United States, ^ twelve, at least, of the jurors must be 
summoned from the very county, in which the crime was 
committed. 

In the court of king's bench, there is' time aUowed 
betweeti the arraignment and the trial, for a jury to be 

b Ante. VOLS. p. 311. 351. «Art9.s.9. "^ 3. Hale; P. C Mk 
« Art 3. s. S. f 1. cong. 1. stas. c. 2a 8. 39. 

! 



LECTURES ON LAW. 16S 

impanelled by a writ of venire facias directed to the 
sheriiF. But justices of oyer and termini and general 
gaol delivery, and justices of the quarter sessions < of 
the peace, may, by a bare award and without any writ 
or precept, haVe a panel returned by that officer t for, in 
oonsequetice of a general precept directed to him before- 
hand, he returns to the court a panel of jurcH-s to try all 
persons, who may be called upon for their trial at that 
session. Before such justices, it is usual, for this rea- 
srni, to try criminals immediately or soon after their ar« 
mignment." 

> 

Jurors must be " homines liberi et legales^^ men free 
and superiour to every legal exception j for every legal 
exception is a cause of challenge. My Lord Coke i enu- 
merates four such causes-— propter honoris respectum-* 
propter defectum — propter delictum — propter aflPectum, 
The first cause relates to the peerage solely: the 
second is an exception against aliens and minors : the 
third is an exception against persons convicted of in- 
famous crimes : the fourth is an exception which arises 
from' bias or partiality. When this bias is apparent, 
the challenge founded on it is a principal one, and 
takes effect immediately : when the bias is only pro- 
bable, the challenge is only to the favour > and its validity 
must be decided by triers, selected by the court for this 
purpose, till two are sworn of the jury. 'These two, as 
diey are acknowledged or found to be impartial, become 
the triers of all the others. . 

Besides these challenges for cause, which operate at 
frequently as they exist, the benignity of the common 

< Woodlns. 666. >" 4. BL Com.,344, 345. 3. Haw. 405. i t ins. 156. b. 



f 



^ I 



% 



• I 



. 166 LECTURES ON LAW. 

« lav allows, as we saw before, every person indicted £ov 
a Capital crime to challenge peremptorily, or without 
cause, any number of jurors under thirty six — the num- 
ber of three juries, i In every capital crime, eaccept 
treason, this number is, by a law of the United States,^ 
reduced to twenty jurors. A person who challenges 
more than the number allowed, is, by the same law^ to 
be treated as one who stands mute. That treatment we 
have already seen. By a law of Pennsylvania, a similar 
deduction is made in the number of peremptory chal- 
lenges : but he, who challenges more than the number 
allowed, shall suffer as a criminal convicted. ^ There is 
a great difference between the two provisions : by that 
of the United States, the person indicted is treated as 
one who must be tried: by that of Piennsylvania, he is 
tireated as one, who is already convicted. '^ 

When an alien is tried, one half of his jury should 
be aliens, if he require it. *" 

Qn this subject of challenges it is properto observe* 
that it seems to have been very familiar in the Roman - 
law, during the existence of the commonwealth. In a 
criminal process, before the court of the praetor, the ac- 
cuser and the accused were each allowed to except against 
fifteen of those returned to try the cause. This exception 
was denominated ^^ rejectio judicum^^ — ^in the phraseolc^y 
of our law, the challenge of the jury* Whenever Cicero 

j 3. Haw. 413. k 1. ccmg. 2. sess. c. 9. & 3a > l.Law& Poiik 134w 

^ The law of Pe i ms yh rania is now &nilar to that of &e Uailed 
Slates. 3. Laws Pc&n. 119. Ed. 

> 3.BLCQiiL36a 4.BLCQm.346.3.Haw.49ai.DaiLr3. 



LZCTURES ON LAW* 



167 



uses the expression — judices ; its legal' 'translation is 
— Gentlement of the jury. 

Concerning the celebrated trial of Milo, we have a 
number of particular facts transmitted to us, which de- 
serve our particular notice and attention. On the first 
day of the trial, or, as we would say, on the return of 
tlie venire JaciaSy the judiceS'-^vrc would say the jur}'— 
were produced, that they might be balloted. The next 
day, tfiey balloted eighty one persons to make up the ju- 
ly. But the accuser had the liberty to challenge fifteen; 
and the accused could challenge as many. By these 
challenges on both sides, the number of those who were 
to give the verdict, was reduced to fifty one. In another 
place we have a particular account of the votes given 
for, and of those given against, Milo : added together, 
they amount to the precise number of fifty one. ^ 



At Rome, as we have seen on more occasions than 
one, prosecutions were considered as the causes of the 
accusers, rather than as die causes of the commonwealth* 
The procdbdings were regulated by this supposition. 
Accordingly, in a criminal prosecution^ the challenge 
extended to such persons as either party— ^the accuser as 
well as the accused-*-had reason, or thought he had rea- 
son, to suspect might be influenced in their verdict by 
favour, affection, consanguinity, malice, or any other pas- 
sion, which might lead to partiality or a corrupt judgment, p 

When a prosecution, as well as the defence of it, was 
viewed as the cause of an individual, it might be reason- 
able enough that, in this view, the power of challenging 



PetonJttrTlli. 



Id. 190. 



t • 



168 JLECTCrllES ON LAW* 

« 

s 
\ 

jurors should, on both sides, b^ equal. But when a 
prosecution is considered as the cause of the comoiunity, 
by a part of which community this very cause is to be 
tried ; matters now assume a Very different appearance* 
This important difference was fully explained in the 
account which I gave of the radical principles^ as I majr 
call them, of the trial by jury.^ The accused stands 
alone on one side : on the other side stand the whole 
community: the jury are indeed a selected pzrt; but 
still they are a part of the whole community : the |)ower 
of challenging, therefore, ought not, on botlisides, to 
be equal. 

True it is, that, at the common law, the king might 
challenge peremptorily, as well as the prisoner* The 
distinction between a publick and a private prosechitor was 
hot sufficiently regarded* From this characteristick fea- 
ture, by the way, a sti^ong intrinsick evidence appears 
of the lineage of juries. But equidly true it is, that the 
distinction was perceived at an early period,, was then 
established — I mean in the reign of Edward the first — 
and has been since uniformly observed. ^ In A>nsequence 
of this distinction, it has been the law, for many centu- 
ries j)ast, that the privilege of peremptory challenges, 
though enjoyed by the prisoner, is refused to the king; 

If, on account of the number of challenges, or the 
non-attendance of the jurors, so many of the panel re- 
turned as are necessary to make a jury cannot be had, 
the court may award a tales^-^tthers qualified in the same 
manner — ^to be added to the panel, till twelve are sworK 
to try the cause. • 

. Ante. vol. 9. p."" 314. 315. 3. Haw. 4lS. < 4* BL Com, 34& 



t 



• 



LECTURES ON LAW* 16^ 

'Their oath is — that they will well and truly try and 
true deliverance make between the*— United States— «• 
and the prisoner at the bar, and a true verdict give ac* 
cording to their evidence. After they are sworn, th^ 
indictment is read, and the issue which they are sworn 
to try is stated to them : and then the publick prosecutor 
opens the cause, and arranges, in such order as he thinks 
most proper, the evidence which is to be offered in sup* 
port of the prosecution. , 

But it is a settled rule at the common law, as it is 
noxv received in England, that, in a trial for a capital 
crime, upon the general issue, no counsel shall be al- 
lowed the prisoner, unless some point of law, proper to 
be debated, shall arise. By a statute, however, madt 
in the reign of William the third, and by another made 
in that of George the second, an exception to this gene* 
ral and severe rule is introduced, for the benefit of those 
who are indicted or iinpeached for treason. ^ This prac* 
tice in Eng^nd is admitted to be a hard one, and not to 
be very consonant to the rest of the humane treatment 
tff prisoners by the English law. Indeed the judges 
themselves are so sensible of this defect in their modern 
practice, that they generally allow a prisoner counsel 
to stand by him at the bar, and instruct him what ques- 
tions to ask, or even to ask questions for him. 

This practice of refusing counsel to those who are 
indicted for a capital crime, is not agreeable to the com- 
mon law as it was formerly received in England. The 
ancient Mirrour tells us, that, in civil causes, counsel are 
necessary to aoanage and to defend them, by die rules of 

* 4. Bl Com. 349, 35a 
vol. III. z 



lyO I.ECTURES ON LAW. 

law and the customs of the realm. He adds, with irre- 
sistible force, that they are still more necessary to defend 
indictments of felony, than causes of a less, important 
nature. ^ On this, a^ on many other great and interesting 
subjects, we have renewed the ancient common law. It 
is enacted by a law of the United States, ^ that persons 
indicted for crimes shall be allowed to make their full 
defence by counsel learned in the law. It is declared by 
the constitution of Pennsylvania, "^ that, in all criminal 
prosecutions, the accused has a right to be heard by him- 
self and his counsel. 

In England, it has been an ancient and commonly re- 
ceived practice, that, as counsel was not allowed to anj 
prisoner accused of a capital crime, so neither should he 
be suffered to exculpate himself by the testimony of wit- 
be«ses. This doctrine was so unreasonable and severe, 
that the courts became ashamed of it, and gradually intro- 
duced a practice of examining witnesses for the prisoner c 
but they stopped in the middle of the road to redress-— 
they would not examine the witnesses upon their oaths. 
The consequence was, that juries gave less credit to wit«^ 
nesses produced on the part of the prisoners, than to wit* 

nesses produced on the part of the crown. ^ 

« 

Thk practice, however, like the last, is not agreeable 
to the conimon law, as it was in ancient times received in 
England* To say the truth, says my Lord Coke, ' we 
never read in any act of parliament, ancient author, book- 
case, or record, that in criminal cases, the party accused 

a Mir. c. 3. ^ 1. coDg. 2. sess. C. 9. s. 29. 

w Art. 9. s. .. ^ 4. Bl. Com. 352. r 3. Ins. 79. 



LECTURES ON LAW, 171 



should not have witnesses sworn for him ; and therefore 
there is not so much as a scintilla juris against it. By a 
statute made in the reign of Queen Anne, the ancient 
common law on this point is renewed in £ngland ; and 
witnesses for the prisoner shall be examined upon oath, in 
the same manner as witnesses against him. ' 

On this subject, the ancient common law, as might 
have been expected, is renewed in the United States and 
in Pennsylvania. By a law of the former* it is provided, 
that persons indicted for crimes shall be allowed to make 
proof in their defence by lawful witnesses ; and that, to 
compel the appearance of their witnesses, the court shall 
grant the same process as is granted to compol witnesses 
to appear on the prosecution. By the constitution of 
Pennsylvania, it is declared, that, in all criminal prose- 
cutions, the accused has a right to have compulsory pro- 
cess for obtaining witnesses in his favour. 

The compulsory process for obtaining witnesses is a 
subpoena ad testijicandum^, which commands them to ap- 
pear at the trial. If this command is disobeyed, anattach^ 
^ment issues for the contempt. ^ 

In honour of the Founder of Pennsylvania it ought to 
he observed, that, in the charter of privileges *^ which he 
granted to its inhabitants, he declared, ^^ that all criminals 
shall have the same privilege! of witnesses and counsel as 
their prosecutors." On this as on many other subjects, 
Pennsylvania preceded England in point of liberal* and 
enlightened improvement. 

X St. 2. An. St 2« c. 9. * 1. cong. 3. sess. c. 9. s. 29. 

^Art9.s.a *^ 3. BL Com. 369. dg,5. 



if% LKCTUaES ON LAW. 

The constitution of Peansylvania ^ declares, that, in 
all criminal prosecations, die accused has a right to meet 
the witnesses face to face. Those whc^ know the nature 
and the mischiefs of secret accusations^-know the impor- 
tance of this provision, and the security which it {uroducea* 

By the constitution of the United States, ^no person 
shall be convicted of treason, unless on the testimony of 
two witnesses to the same overt act', or on confession in 
open court. The subject of confession has been already 
treated. 

The courts of justice, in almost every age, and in 
almost every country, have had recourse to oaths, or ap- 
pals to heaven, as the most universal and the most power- 
ful means to engage men to declare the truth. By the 
common law, beTore the testimony of .a, witness can be 
received, he is obliged to swear, that it shall be the truths 
the whole truth, and nothing but the tVuth. 

The testimony of witnesses is one species of evidence^ 
as we formerly saw \a those lectures,^ in which the great 
subject of evidence was opened, and but just opened. The 
general principles, upon which testimony is received and 
believed, were then stated in a short and summary man- 
ner, as connected with sofne native propensities of the 
human mind. The important distinction between the 
credibility of witnesses axtl their compete|icy was ex- 
plained at large, ^ when I discoursed concerning the 
separate provinces pf courts and juries. I observed, that 
every intelligent person, who is not infamous or interested) 

<Art9.».9. fArt3.s.5» 

C A9tQ(^N)L9.p*8l.et8Ci%. ^ ABte.v6k3.f.yi-^a 



k. 



I 



LECTURES ON LAW* 179 

is a competent witness. Tht common law coincides, in 
this point, with the law of Athens : for, by that law, ao 
man could be a witness in his own cause ; and he who, 
by his ill behaviour, had rendered himself infamous — 
40#^»^— .^ns deemed unworthy of credit. ' 

The Marquis of Beccaria is of opinion, that the objec- 
tion against the competency of a witness shquld be confi- 
ned altogether to his interest ; and that his infamy should 
not exclude him. Every man of common sense, says 
he, every one whose ideas have some connexion with 
each other, and whose sensations are conformable to 
those of other men, may be a witness ; but the credibility 
of hifi testimony will be in proportion as he is interested 
in declaring or concealing the truth. Hence it appears 
bow irrational it is^ to exclude persons branded with 
infamy ; for they ough* to be credited when they have 
no interest in giving false testimony. J 

If this subject is investigated upon principle, it will, 
perhaps, be found, that the practice of the law is more 
congenial to the native sentiments of our mind, than are 
the speculations of the ingenious philosopher. 

Belief is the end proposed by evidence of every kind. 
Belief in testimony is produced by the supposed veracity 
of him who delivers it. The opinion of his veracity, as 
we saw whe^ we examined the general principles of testis 
mony,*^ is shaken, either when, in former instances^ we 
have known him to deliver testimony which has been 

*» 1. Pot. Ant 117. >Bec.c, J3. . ' 

k Ante. vol. 2. p. 94. 95. 






ir4 ' LECTURES ON LAW. 

false ; or when, in the present instance, we discover 
some strong inducement which may prevail on him to 
deceive. The latter part of this observation applies to 
interested vritnesses ; and the application to them is 
admitted to be a proper one, and to be sufficient to 
exclude them from testimony. But who is a person infa- 
mous ra the eye of the common law? He who has been 
convicted of an infamous crime. What, in the eye of. 
the common law, is an infamous crime ? When we inves- 
tigated the true meaning of the y*f//«/* animus ^ according 
to the common law, we found that it indicated a dispo- 
srtion, decertful, false,* and treacherous.^ He who is 
convicted of an infamous crime, is one who has been 
proved guilty of some conduct, which evinced hifn to 
ha\ne been false — to have committed the crimen falsi ; of 
which so many different grades — from treason to a 
cheat, and both included— are known to the law.^ 

It may, howcVer, be urged, on the principles of Bec- 
caria, that to the conduct of which he has been convicted, 
he was probably drawn by a motive of interest ; and that, 
If no such motive exists in the present instance, the infe- 
»ence from the past to the present is without foundation. 
To this it may be justly answered, that the reason why 
interest excludes a witness is not, because it certainly 
will, J)ut because it possibly may, occasion a deviation ^ 
from the truth ; and because this deviation may be pro- . 
duced even by an involuntary and imperceptible bias> 
which interest will sometimes impress upon minds inten- 
tionally honest. That this last consideration has great 
weight in the judgment of the law, is evident from one 
of the modes which it adopts to discover the existence 

^ Ante. p. 23. ' 

/ 



LECTURES ON LAW* 



175 



of interest— -a mode, which, I believe, can be rations^lly 
accounted for only by this last consideration. A witness, 
who is suspected to be interested, may be examined 
upon his voir dire — in other words, he may be required 
to declare, upon oath, whether he is interested or not* 
This mode of proceeding obviously supposes him honest 
as well as interested* For if it supposed him dishonest, 
would not the , conclusion be . irresistible-^^-that he who 
ought not to be believed wh^n he gives his testimony in 
chiefs as it is called, ought as little to be believed, when 
he gives his testimony on his voir dire ? That involun- 
tary and unavoidable bias which interest sometimes im« 
presses on the mind, and which, of consequence, may 
affect the testimony of the pfFered witness, is deemed 
by the law a sufficient reason for his exclusion from tes- 
timony* 



If he whose testimony, may deceive, merely because 
he is interested, though he be honest, shall for this reason 
be excluded ; shall we ^dmit the testimony of one who 
is false, though he be disinterested? The former is 
rejected, because he may be biassed involuntarily ; for 
the danger of even an involuntary bias is, for this pur« 
pose, sufficient : and shall one, whom inter'est has biassed 
voluntarily and infamously — shall such a one be received? 
On good grounds, therefore, are persons infamous ex- 
cluded from giving testimony* 



That evidence which arises from testimony is, in the 
law, denominated positive. There is another kind, 
which the law terms presumptive. When the fact 
itself cannot be proved by witnesses, that which comes 
nearest to such proof is, the proof of such circumstances, 
with which the fact is either necessarily or usually attend- 



176 LECTURES ON LAW. 

ed. This is presumptive evidetice. When those circum* 
fitances are proved, with which the fact is necessariig 
attended, the presumption is said to be violent t when 
those circumstances only are proved with which the fact 
is usually attended, the presumption is said to be only 
probable. » 

Presumptive proof, as described by the common 
law, coincides with that species which', in our general 
view of the sources of evidence, we saw rising from 
experience. On that .occasion,** it was observed, that 
if an object is remembered to have been frequently, stiU 
more, if it is remembered to have been constantly sue* 
ceedcd by certain particular consequences, the concep- 
tion of the object naturally associates to itself the 
conception of the consequences ; and on the actiial 
appearance of the object, the mfnd naturally anticipates 
the appearance of the conseqnences also : that if the coq- 
sequehces have followed the object constantly^ and the 
observations of this constant conne^sion have been suffi- 
ciently numetous ; the evidence produced by e3q)erience 
amounts to a moral certainty : that, if it has heenfrejueoty 
but not entirely uniform ; the evidence amounts only to 
probability, and is more or less probable, as the con- 
nexion has been more or less .frequent. Violent presump- 
tion, as it i« termed by the law, or moral certainty, as 
it is denominated by philosophy, amounts to full proof: ^ 
probability, or probable presumption, has a^o its due 
weight.* The coincidence between philosophy and 
law is a coincidence which, to the friends of both, 
always gives pleasure. 

"" a. BL Con. sri. AanteVd. 3.P.109. 



LECTURE! OV LAW. ' ITT 

It ought to be observed here, th^t, in cases of a 
pttal nature^ all preaumptive proof should be received 
with caution : for the law beni^ly holds/diat it is mctf e 
eligible that ten guilty persons should escape, than 
that one innocent person should suffer a capital punish- 
ment. 

After the evidence is heard, the jury are nea^t to con- 
sider what verdict they ought to give upon it ; for they 
are ^ worn, as we have seen, to give a true verdict accord- 
^^ ing to their evidence. To give a verdict is the great pur- 

pose for which they are sumnuHied and empanelled* 
Tin they give a verdict, therefore, they cannot be dis- 
charged.^ This verdict may either be special*^in other 
words, it may state particulaiiy the facts arising in the 
^use, and leave to the court the decision of the law 
resulting from those facts ; or it may be general— -in other 
words, it may determine both the facts and the law* A 
general verdict is either guilty or not guilty : on a ver- 
dict of not guilty, the prisoner is discharged : by a verdict 
of guilty, he is convicted : on a conviction the judg- 
ment and, the pimishment pronounced and inflicted by 
the law regularly follow, unless they are intercepted 
by errour in the proceedings, by a reprieve, or by a 
•pardon. 

When a sentence of death is pronounced,' the imme- 
4iate and inseparable consequence, by the common law> 
is attainder. The law puts him out of its protection, 
considers him as a bane to human society, and takes no 
farther care of him than barely to see him executed : he 
is already considered as dead in law. There is, in capi- 

q 4, BL Com. 354. 
VOL. III. Aa • , 



ITS LECTURES ON LAW. 

tal cases, a great difference between a man convicted 
and one attainted. Till judgment is given, diere is, in 
sach cases, stiU a possibility of innocence in the contem- 
plation of the law. ^ 

In England the consequences of attainder are forfei* 
ture, escheat, and corruption of blood. Concerning 
these subjects we have already treated fiilly. 

I have now enumerated and described the several 
crimes, the several punishments, and the modes of pro- 
secuting criminals. In doing this, I have conformed 
myself to the common law and to the improvements 
made upon it by the constitutions and laws of the United 
States and of Pennsylvania* 

r 4. BL Com 373. 



THE END or TmE LECTtmES ON LAW. 



ON 



THE HISTORY OF 



\ 



PROPERTY. 



k 



ON 



THE HISTORY OF PROPERTT. 



I 



Jr ROPERTY 19 the right or lawful pover, wluch.9 
person ha3 to a thing. Of thU right there are three 
dificrevit degrees. The lowest degree of this right is m 
right merely to possess a thiag« The next degree of thir 
right is a right to possess and to use a thing. The next 
and highest degree of this right is a right to possess, 
to use, and to dispose of a thing. 

This right, in all its different degrees, may be rested 
in one, or it Jtnay be vested in more than one man. 
When this right is vested in more than one man, it may 
be vested in them either as a number of individuals, or 
as a body politick. 

Coacemiag the origin smd true foundation of property^ 
er the sight of persons to things, many opinions^ have 
been formed and entertained; With regard to property 
in land, Mr* Paley declares, that the real foundation of 



1§2 ON THE HISTORY Of P&OFEKTY. 

it is municipal law* ^ Others consider property as a na- 
tural right ; but as a right, which may be extended or 
modified by positive institutions* ^ 

The general property of man in animals, in the soil, 
and in the productions of the soil, is the immediate 
gift of the bountifulCreator of alL ^^ God created man 
in his own image ; in the image of God created he him : 
male and female created he them. And God blessed 
them ; and God said unto them, be fruitful and multiply, 
and replenish the earth, and subdue it : and have domi- 
nion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the 
air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the 
earth." ^ Immediately after the deluge, the great charter 
of general property was renewed. " God blessed Noah, 
and his sons, and said unto them, be fruitful and multi- 
ply, and replenish the earth. And the fear of you and 
the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth., 
and upon every fowl of the air, smd upon all that moveth 
Upon the ^arth, and upon all the fishes of the sea ; into 
your hand are they delivjered. Every moving thing that 
liveth shall be meat for you ; even as the green berk 
have I given you all things*" ^ 

The information which is expressly revealed is conge- 
nial to those inferences, which may be drawn by sound^ 
and legitimate reasoning. Food, raiment, and shelter 
are necessary and useful to us. Things proper, for our 
food, raiment, and shelter are provided around us. It 
is natural to conclude, that those things were provided 
to supply our wants and necessities. The same train of 

a 1. Paley. 133. 136. >» Ins. 3. 1 11. EL Jur. 15. 

<»G^.Lsr.3a. ^Gemtx.!, 3,2. 



A- 



ON THE HIST6RT OT FROFEllTT, 



183 



reasoning will apply to the enjoyments, as well as to the 
necessities of man. ^ 

While men were few, and the supplies of every thing 
were abundant, it is probable that many things were pos- 
sessed and used in common. With regard to the pos* 
session and use of some things, however, this could 
never be strictly the case. In the fruit plucked or gather- 
ed by one for his subsistence ; in the spot which he occu- 
pied for his shelter or repose ; in the bow which he has 
made for ensuring his safety, or procuring his subsistence ; 
in the skin whidh he has obtained by his skill. and swift^^ 
ness in the chace, and which coveis his body from the 
inclemency of the weather, he gains a high degree of 
exclusive right ; and of this right he cannot be dispos- 
sessed without a proportioned degree of injustice. ** A 
publick theatre," says Cicero, « with his usual luminous 
. .propriety, " is common to all the citizens ; but the seat 
:which each occupies may, during the entertainment, be 
denominated his own." But, in the early period of so- 
ciety, concerning which we now speak, things, in general, 
would be viewed as belonging equally to all ; in other 
words, to those who should first have occasion to use 
or possess them. 

In this situation, we have reason to believe, society 
continued after the deluge, while " the whole earth was 
of one language and of one speech." ^ On the confusion 
of languages, and the dispersion of families, when man* 



e De fin. L 3. c. 2a 

f Gen. xi. 1. Erant omnia communia et indivis^ dnrnibuj, 
veluti unum cunctis patrimonium esset. Just. 1. 43, C 1^ 



I«4 ^ ov THE msToiiir of pmoranTT. 

kind dwelt no longer in *^tfae same plain,''' this general 
society was dissolved, and no one subject of property 
could, in this new situation, be ^reasonably deemed as 
bdotagiillg equally to alL The different families and 
associations, however, who diverged from the commoa 
cencre of emigration, would still conlider many things^ 
Md particularly the country in which they commenced 
their new settlements, as common to each fiuxifly Or as80» 
ci^ion* ^ 

The things most immediatfely necessary to the subsist^ 
«nce of life would become the first objects of exdu^ve 
property. Thb next objects Would be such as ministered 
to its conveniency and comfort. Personsd property, or 
property in movables, would become separate; while 
i^eal property, or property in land, would eontinue com«> 
mon. When the association became too numerous, and 
the personal property of its members became too large, 
to subsist or live commodiously together ; then a sepa- 
ration of landed possessions necessarily took place. Of 
these remarks we have a strong and striking illustration 
in the history of Abram and Lot. ^'^Abram was very 
rich in clittle: Lot also had flocks, and herds, and 
tents. And the land was n6t able to bear them that they 
might dwell together; for their substance was great. 
And there was a strife between the herdmen of Abram's 

cattle and the herdmen of Lot's cattle. And 'Abram 

it 

said unto Lot, let there be no strife, I pray thee, between 
thee and me, and between my herdmen and thy herdmen ; 
for we be brethren. Is not the whole land before thee ? 
Separate thyself, I pray the4, from me : if thou wilt 
take the left hand, then will I go to the right : or if thou 

s Gen. xl S. 



ON f HB HISTORY OF PROPERTY. 185 

depart to the right hand, then I will go to the left. And 
JLot lifted up his eyes, and beheld all the plain of Jordani 
that it was well watered every where. Then Lot chose 
him all the plain of Jordan: and they separated them- 
selves the one from the other." , 

h 

I 

Eyen after agriculture became known and was practi- 
sed in some imperfect degree, still the land continued to 
be the common property of the association. Cecrops, 
"who emigrated from civilized Egypt, was the first to, 
teach the wandering hunters or shepherds of Attica to 
unite in villages of husbandmen. After their union, 
their agricultural labours were carried on in common; 
aadthe soil, together with its immediate productions, 
corn, and wine, and oil, were regarded as a common 
property. * Agreeably to the same spirit and the same 
policy, we are told, that during the heroick ages of Greece, 
vrhen a tribe sallied from its woods and mountains to 
take possession of a more fertile territory, the soldiers 
fought and conquered, not for their leaders, but for 
themselves — -that the land acquired by their joint valour 
vfSi^ their common right — and that it was cultivated by 
the united labour and assiduity of all the members of 
the tribe, i 

In this stage of society, land was considered as the 
property of the community, rather than of individuals ; 
and the inhabitants were connected with the country 
which they inhabited, only as members of the same asso- 
ciation. ^ In this view of things, the famed establishment 

h Gen. xiii. 3. 5«— 11. 

i 1. GilL 8. J 14 48. k Id, 68, 

' VOX. jii. B b 



186 ON THE »I STORY CT PROPEETT. 

of a community of property, which Lycurgus mad« at 
Sparta, m:ay be^ deemed nothing more than a renewsd of 
their primitive institutions, of which some traces probably 
remained anioiig the simple SpartaiA. ^ 

The Scythians, it is well known, appropriated their 
cattle' and tents, but occupied their land in common. 
Such, to this day, are the laws and customs of the Tar^ 
tars. 

Of the Suevi, " the largest and most powerful tribe of 
the ancient Germans, we are informed by Caesar, that 
they had no private or separate property in their land ; 
that, every year, they sent out a proportion of their war- 
riours in order to make war ; Mrfaile the rest remained at 
home, and cultivated the ground for all ; that these war* 
like enterprises and peaceful occupations were pursued, 
in alternate years, by the different divisions of the'war» 
riours ; that the tribe continued only one year in the s^ne 
place ; that they used com very Iftde ; but lived chiefly 
on milk and flesh ; and were much employed in hunting. 
From the pen of Tacitus " we have nearly the same 4e«^ 

1 1. Gill. 96. 

^ Suevorum gens est longe maxima et bellicosissina Gennano- 
ram ommum->^privsiti ac separati ag^i apod eo6 nihil est>-> qnatannis 
singula millia armatorum, bellandi causa, suis ex finibus edDcunt : 
reUqui domi manent ; pro se atque lUis colunt. Hi rorsuft invicim. 
anno post in armis sunt : illi domi remanent — ^neque longius anno 
remanere uno in loco, incolendi causa,licet ; neque multum frumen- 
to, sed maximam partem lacte atque pecore vivunt, multuimque 
sunt; in venationibus. Cxs. !• 4. c. ] . 1. 6. c. 21. 

» 

n Agri pro.numero cukorum ab universis per vices occupaiftiir, 
quds mox inter se secundum dignationem partiuntur. Facilitatflia 
partiendi camporum spatia' prestant. Arva per annoa mutant ; et 
superest ager. Tac de mori Ger. c, 26. 



ON T-HS inESTORT 0? PEOPERTY. 



i9r 



s(^ri|ktion« They change, says he, from spot to spot ; and 
inake new appropriations according to the number of 
bands, and to the condition and quality of ^ach. As 
the plains are very spacious, the allotments are easily 
assigned : for though they shift their situation annually, ' 
they have still lands to spare. 

In Tacitus, however, we. begin to discover some .ap- 
pearances, among the Germans, of a private property in 
lands. To a certain class of their slaves, we are told, 
4heir masters assigned habitations ; and from them, as 
from tenants^ demanded in return a certain quantity of 
grain, or cattle, or cloth. ** This presupposes, in the 
masters, a separate property in the lands let to those 
slaves. 



- In the Highlands of Scotlaml^ we are told, com- 
mon possession of the cultivated soil, as well as of the 
pasture grounds, is known to this day. The arable lands 
are divided into as many parts, as there are tenants en« 
titled to an equal share of possession. The stock of 
cattle belongmg to each tenant is considered as equal : 
the advantages accruing to the several partitions from 
^manure are deemed also to be equivalent ; yet some por- 
tion of these divisions shifts annually from one posses- 
sor to another, in such a manner, that, m a certain period 
of years, every tenant of the village has occupied and 
reaped crops from «U the lands belonging to the village. ^ 

^ S^rvls utttntur. Suam quisque sedem, suos penates regit Fru- 
nenti modum dominus, aut pecoris, aut vestis, ut cdono injimgit. 
Tac.demor.Gor.c35r 

P Grant's Ess. 9r. 



188 



ON THE HISTOllT Oy 5PROPEIITT. 



It is said, that, among the Indians of Peru, the ter- 
ritory occupied Was the property of the state, and was 
regulated by the magistrate ; and that, when individuals 
were permitted to possess particular spots, these, in de- 
fault of male issue, returned to Ae ^community. ^ For- 
merly, says Mr. Adair, the Indian law obliged every 
town to work together in one body, in sowing or planting^ 
their crops ; though their fields are divided by proper 
marks, and their harvest is gathered and appropriated se- 
parately. ^ The ideas and opinions of private and exclu- 
sive property are, as we have reason to believe, extend- 
ing gradually among the Indians ; though their unculti- 
vated territory is still considered as the common property 
of the nation or tribe. 

m 

i 

From the detail which we have given, we are justified 
in deducing this general remark — that in the early and 
rude periods of society among all nations, the same fami- 
ly or association enjoyed and were understood to enjoy in 
many things a community of property, especially of land- 
ed property ; and that, as to individuals, property was 
conceived to extiend no farther than to those degrees, 
which comprehend the right of possession and temporary 
use of the sbiL 

But agriculture, and the industry attendant on agri. 
culture, introduced gradually a new scene of things, and 
a new train of sentiments. This first of arts was not 
unknown to the restorer of mankind. Noah, after the 
deluge, began to be a husbandman, and he planted a 
vineyard. ' Before the confusion of languages, the whole 
human race dwelt in the plain of Shinar. In that plain 



1 Stu, V. 158. cites Com. Per. b. 5.0.1. 3. rId.ilMd. «Gen.ix.2«. 



ON tHE HISTORY OF PROPERTT. la9 

and Its neighbourhood, the knowledge of agriculture 
was- never entirely lost. Among the Babylonians, it is 
traced to the most early periods of their history. In the 
fertile territories of Egypt, watered by the Nile, the 
soil was cultivated with much alssiduity and success** 
When a famine, in the days of Abram, was grievous in 
the land of Canaan, the patriarch went down intO' Egypt 
to sojourn there. ** * Oh a similar occasion, Jacob said to 
his sons, who, with unavailing anguish, beheld the dis- 
tressed situation of the family — ^Why do ye look one 
upon another? I have heard that there is corn in Egypt ; 
get ye down thither, and buy. for us from thence, that 
we may live, and not die. ^ 

From Egypt, as we have already seen, the art of agri- 
culture was transplanted into Attica by Cecrops. Before 
his arrival, the inhabitants had relied on the reproduc- 
tions of the uncultivated soil for their annual subsistence ; 
but, by the example of the Egyptians, skilled in agricul*- 
ture, they were induced to submit to labour, and contract 

habits of useful industry. ^ 

t- . ■ ■ " 

It is the observation of Cicero, that the greatest part 
of the arts and discoveries, which arc necessary or oma- 
n . t dl to life and society, were derived from the Athe- 
nians into the other parts of Greece, and then into fo- 
reign countries, for the general advantage and refinement 

' Osiris, one of the kings of Egypt, is regarded as the inventor 
^ •£ the plough. 

Primus aratra manu solerti fecit Osiris* TibuL L 1. Eleg. 7. v. 29. 

• Gen. xil 10. ^ Gen. xlii. 1,2. ^1. Anac. 6. 



190 



ON THE BISTORT Of F^OPEETY. 



of the human race. ' Agriculturei in particular, was 
brought from Grbece into Italy, according to the account 
of this matter given by the Romans themselves, y As 
^e Egyptians taught the Greeks ; so the Greeks com« 
municateii their knowledge to the Italians. For many 
ages, the Romans knew no other form of a plough^ 
than that which, to this day, is used in some districts of 
the higher Egypt. « 

The wise and virtuous Numa wa^ the patron of agri- 
culture. He distributed the Romans into pagi or villages^ 
and oyer each placed a superintendant to prevail with 
them,, by every motive, to improve the practice of hus- 
bandry. To inspire their industry with redoubled vi- 
gour, he fratiuently condescended to be their overseer 
himself. This wise and judicious policy had a most 
happy influence upon the subsequent mannets and for^ 
tunes of Rome. Our consuls, says the Roman Orator,* 
were called from the plough. Those illustrious charac- 
ters, who have most adorned the commonwealth, and 
have been best qualified to manage the reins of govern- 
ment with dignity and success, dedicated a part of their 
time and of their labour to die cultivation of their landed 
estates. In those glorious ages of the republick, the 
farmer, the judge, and the soldier were to each other 
a reciprocal ornament. After having finished the pub- 
lick business with glory and advantage to himself and to 

"" 1. PoL Ant 138. t 1. Gog. Or. Laws. 68. *Id.9a 

* Ab aratro arcessebantur, qui consuies fierent-^Apud majores 
Mostros, samnii viri, clarissimique homines, qui omni tempore aii 
gubemacula reipuUice sedere dcMiant, tamen in agris qnoque co- 
lendis allqiiantujii oper» temporisqne consumserint CicproRos. 
Am. c. 18. 



\ 



I 

I t 



ON THE HISTORY OF PROPHIlTT. 191 

his counfry, the Roman magistrate descended, with ^ 
modest dignity^ from the elevation of office ; and ress*- 
sumed, with contentment and with pleasure, the peace-- 
ful labours of a rural and independent Kfc. 

When agriculture was once introduced, and its utility 
was known and experienced ; it became natural to searcb 
and adopt the measures necessary for distinguishing 
possessions permanently ; that «very one who laboured 
and who excelled in this fundamental profession, might 
be secured in enjoying the fruits of his laboui^ and lil» 
improvements. Hence the foundation of laws, whicfe. 
instituted and regulated the division and stable piosses^ 
» aion of the soil. Hence, too, the origin and the imp<jr* 
tance of land marks. In the early period in which Job 
fived, it was part of the description of a turbulent and 
wicked man, that he removed the land mai*ks, and violent* 
ly took away flocks. *• The inspired legislator of the* 
Jews speaks of them as of an institution, which, even itt 
his time, was anciently established in Canaan. ^^.ThqiiL 
shalt not remove thy neighbdur's land marie, whic% thejr 
of old time have set in thy inheritance, which thou ahalt 
inherit in the land that the Lord thy God giveth the& 
to possess it."c Numa, mild as he was, ordered tho8«^ 
who were guilty of this crime, to suffer a capital ptin}aii<-^ 
ment. ^ 

The inference which we draw frotn this long- detail 
of facts is — that agriculture gave rise to that degree of 
property inland, which consists in the right of e:fecluaiire ' 
and permanent possession and use. 

> X<)b 3PPV, 3. ^. Deut. xix. 14. d t Gog. Or. l^aws. 33; 



IM ON THE HISTORY OF PROPERTY. 

'We have seen that among the ancient Germans, thi» 
degree of property was altogether unknown. The Saxons, 
^ho emigrated into England, and made a .conquest there^ 
were a part of the ancient German nation. Their settle- 
ment in England produced, with regard to the present 
subject, a considerable change in their sentiments and ha- 
bits. After they settled in England, instead of continuing 
to be hunters, they became husbandmen. In pursuing this 
occupation, they ceased to wander annually from spot to 
spot ; they became Habituated and attached t;o a fixed 
^residence ; they acquired a permanent and an exclusive 
degree of property in land. This degree, among them^ 
as among other nations, proceeded from th«ir improve- 
ment in agriculture. ^ 

We have good reason for believing, that, for some 
time after the settlement of -the Saxons in England, the 
landed estatesac quired by individuals were, in general^ 
but of a small extent. Inexpert in agriculture when.they 
first arrived, their progress in the separate appropriation 
of.l^^ was, therefore, , slow. This alow appropriation 
v^et, besides, with obstructions and interruptions from 
the; vigorous opposition of the Britons, who, for centu- 
ries, disputed every inch of ground with the invaders of 
their country. Conformably to this opinion ,^ we find 
that, from the beginning of the Saxon government, the 
land was divided into hides. A hide comprehended as 
mu^h as could be cultivated by a single plough. The 
general estimation of real, property, by this small and 
. inaccurate measure, points, with sufficient cleamesis^ to 
the leading circumstance, which originally marked and 
regulated the greatest number of landed estates. ^ 

• Millar, 50. f id. SS. iU. Uh 



QT§ TK« WWT^KT or F^OFftHIT. < i^S 



/ 



f 



Bttt WiS have aiso gi^d reason for believing) that, 
^nioiigthe Saxone, thp emaUness of their landedi property 
. w^ compenaated by itsindependence. Tb^y were fre^ 
men ; /and their law* of {^operty waa, that they might 
challenge a pourer to dQ vhat they pleased with their Qwn*^ 
But thie degree and quality of property wiU be coasidered 
afterwards. 

Having traced property, and especially property in 
land, from its general to its separate and exclusive state^ 
it will now be proper to consider the advantag^a, whii:li 
the latter state possesses oyer the former* 

This superiority of separate over comaion proper^ 
has not been always admitted: it has not been always 
admitted even in America* In the early settlement of 
this country, we find two experiments on the operation 
iand effects of a community of goods. The issue of each^ 
l|0W€ver, was very uncomfortable. 

The first was made in Virgima. An instruction was 
given to the colonists, that, during five years next after 
their binding, they should trade jointly ; that the produce 
of their joint industry should be deposited in a common 
magazine ; and that, from this common ma^zine, every 
one should be suppUed under the direction of the coun- 
ciL What were the consequences? I relate them in the 
words of the Historian of Virginia.j " And now the En- 
glish began to find the mistake of forbidding and prevent- 
i^ private property ; for whilst they all laboured jointly 
together, and' were fed out of the common store, happy 

' X Bac. on Gov. 131 

VOL. Ill* c c 



\ 



/ 



1^4 bW THE HISTORY Of ^ROPSftTT. 

was he that could slip from his labour, or slubber orer 
his work in an}^ manner. Neither had they any concern 
about the increase ;. presuming, however the crop pros- 
pered, that the publick store must maintain them. £ven 
the most honest and industrious would scarcely take so 
much pains in a week, as they would have done for them- 
selves in a day." ^ 

The second experiment was made in the colony of 
New Plymouth. During seven years, all commerce 
was carried on in one joint stock. All things were com- 
mon to all ; and the necessaries of life were daily dis- 
tributed to every one from the publick store. &ut these 
regulations soon furnished abundant reasons for com-| 
plaint, and proved most fertile sources of common 
calamity. The colonists were sometimes in danger of 
starving ; and severe whipping, which was often admi-* 
nistered to promote labour, was only productive of 
constant and general discontent. This abstird policy 
became, at last, apparent to every one ; and the intro- 
duction of exclusive property immediately produced the 
most comfortable change in the colony, by engaging the 
affections and invigorating the pursuits of its inhabit 
tants* ^ 

The right of separate property seems to be founded 
in the nature of men and things ; and when societies 
become numerous, the establishment of that ri^ht is 
highly important to the existence, to the tranquillity 
to the elegancies, to the refinements, and to some of the 
virtues of civilized life. 

^ Stith. 39. i ChaL«9.9«t 



OW THE HISTORY OF FROPERTT. 195 

I 

Man is intended for action. Useful and skilful 
industry is the soul of an active life. But industry 
should have her just reward. That reward is property ; 
fcnT' of useful and active industry, property is the natural 
result. 

Exclusive property multiplies the productions of the 
earth, and the means of subsistence. Who would cul- 
tivate the soil," and sow the grain, if he had no pecu- 
liar interest in the harvest? Who would rear and tend 
flocks an^ herds, if they were to be taken from 
him by the first person who should come to demand 
them ? 

' By exclusive propertj'', the productions of the earth 
and the means of subsistence are secured and preserved, 
as well as multiplied. What belongs to no one is wasted 
by every one. What belongs to one man in particular is 
the object of his economy and care. ' 

Exclusive property prevents disorder, and promotes 
peace. Without its establishment, the tranquillity of 
society would be perpetually disturbed by fierce and 
ungovernable competitions for the possession and enjoy- 
ment of things, insufficient to satisfy all, and by no 
rules of adjustment distributed to each. 

The conveniences of life depend much on an Exclu- 
sive prope^tyl The full effects of industry cannot be 
obtained without distinct professions and the division of 
labour. But labour cannot be divided, nor can distinct 
professions be pursued, unless the productions of one 
profession and of one kind of labour can be exchanged 



1^6, ON TBfli HISTORY M FROPEBTT. 

for those of another. Thi^ exchange implies a s«piifate 
jpro|)erty in those who make it. 

The observations concerning the cdnvbniehcies of life^ 

may be applied with equal justness to its elegancies and. 
its refinements. 

On property some of the virtues depend for their more 
free and enlarged exercise. Would the same room be 
left for the benign indulgence of generosity and benefi- 
cence — 'Would the same room be left for the becoming 
returns of esteem and gratitude-— would the sahie room 
be left for the endearing interchange of good offices, Ih 
the various institutions and relations of social life, if 
the goods of fortune lay in a mass, confused and unap- 
propriated ? 

For these reasons, the establishment of iBXctusive pro- 
perty may justly be considered as essential to the interests 
of civilized society. With regard to land, in particular, 
a separate and exclusive property in it is a principal 
source of attachment to the countn\ in which one re- 
sides. A person becomes'very unwilling to relinquish 
those well known fields of his own ; ivhich it has been 
the great object of his industr\% and, perhaps, of his 
pride^ to cultivate and adorn.'* This attachment to pri- 
vate landed property has, in some parts of the globe, 
covered barren heaths and inhospitable mountains with 
fair cities and populous villages ;. while, in other parts, 
the ihost inviting climates and soils remain destitute of 
inhabitants, because the rights of private property in 
lind are hot established or ^regarded. 

V 

ef those lectures, in which the Author designed ^ to trace the 



ON THE HISTORY OF ^KOPXRTY. 



197 



^torf of property from its lowest rude beginnings to its highest 
artificial refinements.*' (VoL 1. p. 50.) It will be perceived that 
the piece is indeed but a fragment; as,' however, the history 
of property is so far completed as to trace it from its general 
to its separate and exclusive state, it is thought worthy of in* 
sertioD* £d. 



CONSIDERATIONS 

ON THE NATURE AND EXTENT OF THE 
LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY 

or THE 

BRITISH PARLIAMENT. 



1PUBLISHED IN THE TEAR H^DGG,LXXIV. 



; -. 



/ 



ADVERTISEMENT. 

X HE following sheets were written during die 
late non-importation agreenMsnt: but that agreement 
being dissrolved before they were ready for the press, it 
was then judged unseasonable to publish them. Many 
will, perhaps, be surprised to ^ee the legislative authority 
of the British parliament over the colonies denied v/;* 
every instance. Those the writer informs, that, when 
he began this piece, he would probably have been 
surprised at such an opinion himself; for that it was 
the result^ and not the occasion^ of his disquisitions. 
He entered upon them with a view and expectation of 
being able to trace some constitutional line between those 
cases in which ^e ought, and those in which we ought 
not, to acknowledge the power of parliament over us* 
In the prosecution of his inquiries, he became fully 
convinced that such aline does not exist ; and that there 
caen be no medium between acknowledging and denying 
that power in a// cases. Which of these two alternatives is 
most consistent with law, with the principles of liberty, 
and with the happiness of the colonies, let the publick 
determine. To them the writer submits his sentiments, 
with that respectful deference to their judgment, which, ^ 
in all questions affecting them, every Individual should 
pay. 

August 17 th^ 1774. 

VQU III. Dd 



\ 



N 



/ 



OV THE 



LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY 



OF THX 



BRITISH PARLIAMENT. 



IN O quiestion can be more important to Great Britain, 
and to the colopies, than this— -does the legislative 
authority of the British parliament extend over them i 

On the resolution of this question, and on the mea« 
sures which a resolution of it will direct, it will depend^ 
whether the parent country, like a happy mother, shall 
behold her children flourishing around her, and receive 
the most grateful returns for her protection and love; 
or whether, like a step dame, rendered miserable by her 
own imkind conduct, she shall see their affections aliena- 
ted, and herself deprived of those advantages which a 
milder treatment would have ensured to her. 



The British nation are generous : they love to enjoy 
freedom : they love to beh9ld it; aUv^ry is iheir ]g;reatest 



204 ON TH£ LEGIfl^LATlVE AUTHORITT 

abhorrence. Is it possible, then, that they would wish? 
themselves the authors of it? No. Oppression is not a 
plant of the British soil i and the late severe ))roceedingi^ 
against the colonies must have arisen from the detesta^ 
ble schemes of interested ministers, who have misin* 
formed and misled the people* A regard for that nation,, 
from whom we have sprung, and from whom we boast 
to have derived the spirit which prompts us to oppose 
their unfriendly m^easures, must lead us to put this 
construction on what we have lately seen and experienced. 
When, therefore, they shsil know and consider the jusr 
tice of our claim-— that we insist only upon being treated 
aa freemen, said as the desceivdants of those British 
ancestors, whose n^emory we will not dishonour by our 
degeneracy, it is reasonable to hope, that they will 
approve of our conduct, and bestow their loudest 
applauses on our congenial ardour for liberty. 

• 

But if these, reasonable and joyful hopes should 
fatally be disappointed, it will afford us at least some 
sal^isfccuon to know, that the principles on which we 
have founded our opposition to the late acts of parliament, 
are the principles of justice and freedom, and of the 
British constitution. If our righteous struggle shall be 
attended with misfortunes^ we will reflect with exultation 
on the noble cause of them ; and while suffering unme* 
rited distress, think ourselves superiour to the proudest 
slaves. On the contrary, if we shall be reinstated in 
the enjoyment of those rights, to which we are entitled 
by the supreme and uncontrollable laws of nature, and 
the fundamental principles of the British constitution, 
we shall reap the glorious fruit of our labours ; arid we 
shall, at the same time, give to the world and to pos-^ 
terity an instructive example, that the cause of liberty 



,OW TB^ BRITISH PARLIAMEHT/ 305 

cHight not to be despaired of, and that a generous conten- 
tion in that cause is not always unattended wiih success* 

l^'he foregoing considerations have induced me to 
publish a few remarks on the important question, with 
which I introduced this essay* 

Those who allege that the parliament of Great 
Britain have power to make laws binding, the American 
colonies, reason in the following manner. ^ That there 
is and must be in every state a supreme^ irresisiible, 
absolute, uncontrolled authority, in which the Jura summi 
imperii^ or the rights of sovereignty, reside :" a " That 
this supreme power is, by the constitution of Great 
Britain, vested in the king, lords, and commons:''^ 
** That, therefore, the acts of the king, lords, and com* 
mons, or, in other words, acts of parliament, have, by 
the British constitution, a binding force on the American 
colonies, they composing a part of the British empire.'^ 

I admit that the principle, on which this argument 
is founded, is of great importance : its importance^ 
howeter, is derived from its tendency to promote the 
ultimate end of all government. But if the application 
of it would, in any instance, destroy, instead of promo- 
ting, that end, it ought, ' in that instance, to be rejected : 
for* to admit it, would be to sacrifice the end to the 
means, which are V^uable only so far as they advance 
it. 

All men are, by nature, equal and free : lio one has 
ft right to any authority over another without his consent: 

• 4, BL Com. 48. 49. ^ Id. 5a 51. 

/ 



306 ON THE lEGiSLATIVE AUTHOBITT 

all lanvf ul government is founded on the consent of those 
who are subject to it : such consent was given with a 
view to ensure and to increase the happiness of the 
governed, above what they could enjoy in an indepen- 
dent and unconnected state of nature* The consequence 
is, that the happiness of the society is thf firBt law of 
every government. * 

This rule is founded on the law of nature : it must 
control eveiy political maxim : it must regulate the legis- 
lature itself, d The peoj^e have a right to insist that 
this rule be observed ; and are entitled to demand a 
moral security < that the legislature will observe it. If 
they have not the first, they are slaves , if they have 
not the second, they are, every moment, exposed 
to slavery. For ^^ civil liberty is nothing else Jbut 
natural liberty, devested of that part which constituted 
the in'dependence of individuals, by th^ authority ^which 
it confers on sovereigns, attended with a right of imist- 
ing upon their making a good use of their authority, and 
with a moral security that this right will have^ita effect." ^ 

Let me now be permitted to ask — ^Will it ensure and 
increase the happiness of the American colonies, that 
the parliament of Great Britain should possess a supremey 
irresistible, uncontrolled authority over them F Is such 
an authority consistent with their liberty \ Have they 

^ The right of sovereignty is that of commanding finally-— 4>at 
in order to procure real felicity ; for if this end is not obtained, 
Ibvereignty ceases to be a le^timate authority. 2. BurL 32, 33. 

d The law of natare b saperiour in obligation to any other. 1* 
BL Com. 41. 

« % Barl. 19. 



^Of T9E BRITISH FARLIAKSNT. ^07 

any security that it will be employed only for their good? 
.Such a security is absolutely necessary; Parliamentfl are 
not infallible : they are not always just. The members, 
of whom they are composed, are human ; and, there- 
fore, they may err ; they are influenced by interest; and, 
therefore, they may deviate from their duty; The acts 
of the body must depend upon the opinions and disposi- 
tions of the members : the acts of the body may, then, 
DC the result of errour and of vice. It is no breach of 
decency to suppose all this : the British constitution sup- 
poses it : ^^ it supposes that parliapients may betray their 
trust, and provides, as far as human wisdom cap provide, 
that they may not be. able to do so long, without a suffi- 
cient control." Without provisions for this purpose, 
the temple of British* liberty, like a structure of ice, 
would instantly dissolve before the fire of oppression and 
despotick sway. • . 

• 

It will be very material to consider the several secu- 
rities, which the inhabitants of Great Britain have, that 
their liberty will not be destroyed by the legislature, in 
whose hands it is intrusted. If it shall appear, that the 
' same securities are not enjoyed by the colonists ; the 
undeniable. consequence will be, th^t the colonists are not 
under the same obligations to intrust their liberties into 
the hands of the same legislature : for the colonists are 
entitled to all ^ the privileges of Britons. We have com- 
^nitted no crimes to forfeit them : we have too much 
spirit to resign them. We^ will leave our posterity as 
free as our ancestors left us. 

f Bol. Diss. <xi Part L 11. 13. p. 167. 179. 

r 

g As the law is the birthright of every subject, so wheresoever ^ 
Ihey go, &ey carry thdr laws wUh them. 3. P. Wins. 75. 



X 



SQ6 OK Ta* WOWtATIVB ^t/TQORITT 



\ 



To give (o any thing tb^t piis^es in pinrliasient die 
force of a law, the consent of the jkuvg, pf the lords, aii4. 
of the commons ^ is absolut^y necessary. ^ If, the% 
the inhabitants of Great Br itain possess a sufficieiiil; rcr 
attaint upon any of these branches of the legislatiH'e^ 
their liberty is secure, provided they be not wantii^ to 
themselves* Let us take a view of the restraints, which 
they have upon the hoose of c<mimonfi« 

They elect the members of that house. ^^ Mi^^- 
triites," says Montesquieu,] ^^ are properly theirs, who 
havie the nomination of them." The .members of the 
house of commons, therefore, elected by the peo^e, are 
the magistrates of the people ; and are bound 'by the ties 
of gratitude for the honour and confidence conferred 
upon daiem, to consult the interest of their constituents. 

The power of elections has ever been regarded as a 
point of the last ooiisequeiK^ to allk free governments. 
The independent exercise of that power is justly deemed 
Ae strongest bulwark of the British liberties. ^ As such» 

^ The c^mnums of Bngiand have a great and ccRsiderable rigbt 
InthegovemmeBt ; and a diare in the leg^lature witiiout wtuoni 
aolawpasses. 3. Ld* Ray. 95Q. 

j Sp. L. b. 2. c. S. 

^ llie Athenians, justly jealous of this important privilege) pu- 
nished, with death, every stranger who presumed to interfere in the 
assemblies of the people. 

1 The >£n^i^ freedom wiU be at an end whenever the court 
invades the free election of parliament Rapin. 

A right that a ntaa has to give his vote at the election of ^ per«» 
son to represent him in parliament, diere ta concur to the makhig 



or TtlE BRITISH PARLIAMfiNt. SfOS 

it has always been an object of great attention to the 
legislature; and Is expressly stipulated with the prince iu 
thfe bill of rights. All those are excluded ' from voting, 
whose poverty is such, that they cannot live independent, 
and must therefore be subject to the undue influence of 
their superiours. Such are supposed 'to have no will of 
their own : and it is judged improper that they should 
vote in the representation of a free states What can 
exhibit in a more striking point of view, the peculiar 
care which has been taken, in ordei^ to render the elec** 
tion of members of parliament entirely free ? It was 
deemed an insult upon the independent comthbns of En- 
gland, that their uninfluenced suffrages should be adul- 
terated by those w.ho w^ere not at liberty to speak as they 
thought, though their interests and ' inclinations were the 
same. British liberty, it was thbught, could not be 
effectually secured, unless those who made the laws 
were freely, and witho.ut influence, elected by those 
for whom they were made. Upon this principle is rea- 
sonably founded the maxim in law — ^that every one, who, 
is capable of exercising his will, is party, and presumed 
to consent, to an act of parliament. 

- For the same reason that persons, who live dependent 
upon the will of others, are not admitted to vote in elec- 
tions, those who are under age, and therefore incapable 
of judging; those who are convicted of perjury or subor- 
nation of perjury, and therefore unworthy of judging; 
and those who obtain their freeholds by fraudulent con- 
veyances, and would therefore vote to serve infamous 

of laws, which are to bind his liberty and prc^rty, is a most tran- 
Bcendant thing aad of a high nature. 3. Ld. Ray. 95Z, 

VOL. IIU £ e 



210 ON THfc LEGIS£ATITE AUTHORITY 

puFposes, are all likewise exduded^ from the enjoyment 
of this great privilege. Corruption at elections is guarded 
against by the strictest precautions, and most severe 
penahief;. Every elector, before he polls, mustf if de- 
^m£mded by a candidate or by two electors, -take the oath 
against bribery, as prescribedby 2. Geo. 2. c^ 24. Officers 
of the excise, of the customs, and of the post offices { 
officers poncerned in the duties upon leather, soap, paper^ 
striped linens imported, hackney coaches, cards and dice,' 
are i:e8trained from Jinterfering in electionSf under the 
penalty of one hundred pounds^ and . of being jncapaUe 
of ever exercising any office of trust under the king. 

« ■» 

Thus is -the freedom of. elections secured from the 
servility, thf; ignorance, and the corruptioai .of the elec* 
tors ; and from the interposition of oftcers .dependmg 
imnaediately upon the crown. ^ But this h not all. Fro* 
visions, equaOy salutary, have been made condeming the , 
qualifications of those who shall be elected. AUimagiii- 
abie care has been ^ken, that the comnKuas oP Great 
Britain may be neither awed, nor allured, nor deceived 
into any nomination inconsistent with their liberties. 

It has been adopted/as a general maxim, that th^ cit>w& 
will take advantage of every opportunity of extendhig 
its prerogative, in opposition to the privileges of the 
people ; that it is the interest ofvthose who have pensions 
or offices at will from the crown, to concur in all its me£^« 
^ures } that mankind in general will prefer their private 
interest to the good of their country ; and that, conse., 
qucntly, those who enjoy such pensions or offices are un- - 
fit to represent a free nation, and to have the care o£ 
their liberties committed to their hands^m AU^ucl^ 

"* There are a few exceptions in the case of officers atifOL 



OF TBE BRITXHlf PARLIAMENT. Hi 

oRctn or pensioners are declared incapable of being 
elected members of /the house of commons^ ' 

But these are not the only checks which the commons 
of Great Britain have, upon the conduct of those whom 
they ekct to represent them in parliament. The interest 
of the representatives is the same with that of their 
constituents. Every measure, that is prejudicial to the 
nation, must be prejudicial to them and their posterity. 
They cannot betray their electors, without, at the same 
thne, injuring themselves^ They must join in bearing 
the burthen of every oppressive act ; and participate 'in 
the happy effects of every wise and good law. Influenced 
{)y these considerations, they will seriously and with at« 
tention examine every measure proposed to them ; they 
^ill behold it in every light, and extend their views to 
its most distant consequences. If^ after the most mature 
deliberation, they find it will be conducive to the welfare 
of their country, they will support it with ardour : if, on 
the contrar}% it appears to be of a dangerous and de- 
structive nature, they will oppose it with firmness. 

Every social and generous affection concurs with their 
interest, in anii^ating the representatives of the commons 
of Great Britain to^ an honest and faithful discharge of 
their important trust. In each patriotick effort, the heart- 
felt satisfaction of having acted a worthy part vibrates in 
delightful unison w^h the applause of their!countrymen, 
who never fail to express their warmest acknowledge- 
ments to the friends and benefactors of their countr}% 
How pleasing are those rewards t How much to be pre. 
ferred to that paltry wealth, which is sometimes procured 
by meanness and treachery ! I say sometimes 9 for mean* 
ness and treachery do not always obtMi tihtt pitifi^ re« 



212 ON THE IfiGlSLATlVE AUyilORlTT ^ 

ward. The most useful ministers to the crown^ and 
therefore the most likely to be employed, especially in 
^eat emergencies, are those who are best beloved by the 
people; andahose only are beloved by, the. people, who 
act steadily and uniformly in support of their liberties. 
Patriots, therefore, have freque;ntly, and especiadly upon 
important occasions^ the best chance of being advanced 
to offices of profit-and power. An abject compliance with 
the will of an imperious prince, and a ready disposition 
to sacrifice ev^ry duty to his pleasure, are sometimes, I 
confess, the steps, by which only men can expect to rise 
to wealth and titles. Let us suppose that, in this manner, 
they are successful in attaining them. Is the despicable 
prize a jSufficient^rQcompense, for submitting to the infa- 
mous means by swhich it was procured, and for the tortur- 
ing remorse with which the possession of it must be ac- 
companied ? Will iicompensate for the merited curses of 
the nation and of posterity ? 

These, must he very strong checks upon the conduct 
of every man, who is not utterly lost ta^all sense of praise 
and blame. Few wijl expose themselves to the just 
abhorrence of those among whom they, live, and to the 
excruciating sensations which such abhorrence must 
produce. 

But lest all these motives^ powerful as they are, should 
be insufficient to animate the representatives of the nation 
to a vigorous and upright discharge of their duty, and to 
restrain them from yielding to any temptation, that would 
incite them to betray their trust ; their constituents have 
still a farther security for their liberties in the frequent 
election of parliaments. At the expiration of every paiv . 
liament, the people cap make a distinction betir ten those 



OF TI^E BRITISH PARLIAMENT. 



Sis 



who have served them well,* and those who have neglected 
or l^etrayed their interest: they can bestow, unasked, 
their suffrages upon the former in the new election ; and 
can mark the latter with disgrace, by a mortifying refusal. 
The constitution is thus frequently renewed, and drawn 
b^k, as it were, to its first principles ; which is the most 
effectual method of perpetuating the liberties of a state* 
Thb people have numerous opportunities of displaying 
their just importance,. and of exercising, in person, these 
natural rights. Tlie representatives are reminded whose 
creatures they are ; and to whom they are accountable 
for the use of that power, which is delegated unto them* 
The first ma^xims of jurisprudence are ever kept in view 
— .that all power is derived from the peoplje — rthat their 
happiness is the end of government. , 

Frequent new parliaments are a part of the British 
constitution : by them only, the king can know the imme- 
diate sense of the nation^. Every supply, which they 
grant, is justly, to be coosideredi-as a testimony of the 
loyalty and affection, which the nation bear to their sove- 
reign ; and by this means, a.mutv^al confidence is created 
between the king and his subjects. How pleasing must 
such an intercourse of benefits be ! How must a father of 
his people rejoice in such dutiful returns for his paternal 
care ! With what ardour must his people embrace every 
opportunity of giving such convincing proofs, that they 
are not insensible of his wise ahd indulgent rule ! 



Long parliaments have always been prejudicial to th^ 
prince, who summoned , them, or to the people, who 
elected them. In that called by King Charles I, in the 
year 1640, the commons proceeded at first, with vigour 
and a true patriotick spirit, to rescue the kingdom from 



dl4 ON THE L£GIStATIV£ AUTHORITT 

the op^reasion under which it then grtfaned^ — ^to retrieve 
the liberties of the people, and establish them on the 
surest foundations— ^md to remove or prevent^ the per- 
nicious consequences, which had arisen, or which, they 
dreaded, might arise from the tyrannical exercise of pre* 
rogative. They aboli^ed the courts of the star chamber 
and high Commission : they reduced the forests to their 
ancient bounds: they repealed the oppressive statutes 
concerning knighthood : they declared the tar erf shjp 
money to be illegal : they presented the petition of rights, 
and obtained a ratification of it from the crown. But 
when the king unadvisedly passed an act to continue them 
till such time as they should please to diss^ve them- 
selves, how soon— how fatally did their conduct change ! 
In what^mijsery did they involve their country ! Those 
very men, who, while they had only a constitutional 
power, seemed . to have no other aim but to secure imd 
improve the liberty and felicity of their constituents, and 
to render their sovereign the glorious ruler of a free and 
happy people — ^those very men, after they became inde- 
pendent of the king and of their electors, sacrificed both 
to that inordinate power which had been gil^en them. A 
regard for the publick was now no longer the spring'of 
their actions : their only view was to ag^grandize them* 
selves, and to establish their grandeur on the ruins of 
their countf y. Their views imhappily were accomplished. 
They overturned the constitution from its very founda- 
tion ; and converted into rods of oppression those initru- 
ments of power,* which had been put into their hands for 
the welfare of the state ; but which those, who had for- 
merly given them, could not now reassume. What an 
instructive example is this ! How alarming to those, wha 
have no influence over their legislators — who have no 
security but that the power, whieh was original^ derived 



Of THE BRITISH PARLIAMENT. 215 

from the people, and was delegated for their preservation^ 
niay te abused for their destruction ! Kings are not the 
only tyrants : the conduct of the long parliament will 
justify me in adding, that kings are not the severest 
tyrants. 

At the restoration, care was taken to reduce the house 
of commons to a proper dependence on the king j but 
imn»ediately after their* election, they lost all dependence 
upon their constituents, . because they tontinucd during 
the pleasure of the crown. The eflFects soon dreadfully 
appeared in the long parliament under Charles the second. 
They seemed disposed ingloriously to surrender those 
liberties, for which their ancestors had planned, and 
fought, aind bled : and it was owing to the wisdom and 
integrity of two* virtuous ministers of the crown, that 
the commons of England were not reduced to a state of 
' slavery and wretchedness by the-treachery of their own 
representatives, whom they had indeed elected, but^hom 
^ey could not remove. Secure of their seats, while they 
gratified the crowti,.the members bartered the liberties 
of the nation for places and pensions ; and threw into the 
scale of prerogative aU that weight, which they derived 
from the people in order to counterbalance it. 

It was not till some years after the revolution, that the 
people could rely on the faithfulness of their represfenti^ 
tivcs, or punish their perfidy. By the statute 6. W. & 
M. €. 2. it was enacted, that parliaments should not con- 
tinue longer than three years. The insecure situation of 
the first prince of the Hanoverian line, surrounded widx 
tlvalt and with epnemies, induced the parliament, soon 

• The Earls of Clarebdon and SouthaiBptmi^ 



216 ON THE LEGISLATIVlft AtJTHORITY 

I 

\ 

after his accession to the throne, to prolong this term tm 
that of seven years. Attempts have, since that time, been 
frequently made to reduce the continuance of parliament^ 
to the former term : and such attemptshave always been 
well received by. the nation. Undoubtedly they deserve 
such reception : for long parliaments will naturally forget 
their dependence on the people : when this dependence 
IS forgotten, they will become corrupt : " Whenever they 
^^ become corrupt, the constitution of ^England will lose 
" its liberty— it will perish," ° 

Such is the provision made by the laws of Great Bri- 
tain, that the commons should be faithfully represented : 
provision is also made, that faithful representatives should 
not labour for their constituents in vaim The constitu- 
tion is formed in such a manner, that the house of com(« 
mons are able as well as willing to protect and defend the 
liberties intrusted to their care* 

The constitution of Great Britain is that of a limited 
monarchy J and in all limited monarchies, the power of 
preserving the limitations must be placed somewhere. 
During the reigns of the first Norman pi'inces, this power 
seems to have i-esided in the clergy and in the barons by 

o Mont Sp. L. b. 1 1. c. 6. If the legislative body were perpetual ; 
or might last for the life of the prii^ who conrened them, as for- 
merly ; and were so to be supplied, by occasionally fiUing the vacaa* 
cies with new representatives ; in these cases, if it were caice cor- 
rupted, the evil would be j>ast remedy : but when different bodies 
succeed each other, if the people see cause to disapprove of the pre- 
sent, they may rectify its faults in the next. A legislative assembly 
also, which' is sure to be separated again, will think themselves 
bound, in interest as well aS duty, to make oobf such laws as are ' 
Sood^ 1. Bl, C<»Q^ 199, 



or THE BRITISH PARLIAMENT. 217 

tums^. But it was lodged very improperly. The clergy 
zealous only. for the dignity and precinint^nce of the 
church, neglected and despised the people, whom, with 
the soil they tilled, they wocJd willingly have considered 
as the patrimony of St. Peter. Attached to a fofeign 
jurisdiction, and aspiring at an entire independence of the 
civil powers, they looked upon the prerogatives of the 
crown as so many obstacles in the way of their favourite 
scheme of supreme ecclesiastical dominion ; and there- 
fore seized, with eagerness, every occasion of sacrificing 
tlie interests of their sovereign to those of the/ pope. 
£nemies alike to their king and to their country, their ■ 
sole and unvaried ^im was to reduce both to the tnost 
abject state of submission and slavery. The means em- 
ployed by them to accomplish their pernicious purposes 
were, sometimes, to work upon the superstition of the 
people, 4nd direct it against the power of the prince ; and, 
at other times, to work upon the superstition of the 
prince, and direct it against the liberties of the people. 

The power of preserving the limitations of monarchy, 
for the purposes of liberty, was not more properly placed 
in the barons. Domineering and turbulent, they oppresr 
sed their vassals, and treated them as slaves ; they oppo- 
•ed their prince, and wfre impatient of every legal 
restraint. Capricious and inconstant, they sometimes 
abetted the king in his projects of tyranny j and, at other 
times, excited the people to insurrections and tumults. 
For these reasons, the constitution was ever fluctuating 
from one extreme to another ; now despotism — now an- 
archy prevailed. 

But after the representatives of the commons began t6 
sit in a separate house; to be considered a$ a distinct 
vol. III. V f 



, 218 ON THE LEpiSLATIVE AUTHORITT 

branch of the legislature ; and, as such, to be invested 
with separate and independent powers and privileges ; 
then the constitution assumed-a very different^appearance. 
Having no interest contrary to that of the people, from 
among whom they were chosen, and with whom^ after the 
^ «ession, they were again to mix, they had no views incon- 
sistent with the liberty of their constituents, and there- 
fore could have no motives to betray it* . Sensible that 
prerogative, or a djscretipnary power of acting where 
the Uws are silent, is absolutely necessary, and that this 
prerogative is most properly intrusted to the executor 
of the laws, they did not oppose the exercise of it, whHe 
it was directed towards the accomplishment of its origiaal 
end: but sensible likewise, that the good of the state 
was this original end, they resisted, with vigour, every, 
arbitrary measure, repugnant to law, and unsupported 
by maxims of publick freedom or utility. 

The checks, which they possessed over prerogative;, 
were calm and gentle — operating with a secret, bujt eflfec- 
tual force- — unlike the impetuous resistance of, factious 
barons^ or the boisterous fulminations of ambitious 
prelates. 

One of the most ancient maxims of the Englislvlair 

is, that no freeman can be taxed at pleasure, p But taxes 

on freemen were absolutely necessary to dcfi-ay the 

* 

extraordinary charges of government. The consent of 

the freemen was, therefore^ of necessity to be obtained. 

Numerous as they were, they*^ could not assemble to give 

their consent in their proper persons ; and for this reason, 

it was directed by the constitution, that they should givii 

-f X. Bac. 56«. 



' Ol" THi: BRITISH PARLIAM^BNT, f 19 

k'by their representatives, chosen "by and out of them- 
«^lv^s." Hence the indisputable and peculiar privilege 
of the house of commons to grant taxes. *^ 

This is the source of that mild but powerful influence, 
which the commons of Great Britain possess over the 
crown. ' In this consists their security, that prerogative, 
intended for their benefit, will never be exerted for their 
ruin." By calmly and constitiitionaUy refusing supplies, 
or by granting them only oa certain conditions, they 
have corrected the extravagancies of some princes, and 
have tempered the headstrong nature of others ; they 
have checked the progress of arbitrary power, and 'have 
supported, with honour to themselves, and with advah" 
tage to the nation, the character of grand inquisitors of 
the realm. The proudest ministers of the proudest 
tnonarchs have trembled at their censures ; ^nd have 
appeared at the bar of the house, to give an account of 
their conduct, and ask pardon for their faults^ Those 
princes, who have favoured liberty^ and thrown them- 
selves upon the affections of their people, have ever 
fbund that libei'ty which they favoured, and those affec- 
tions which they cultivated, the firmest foundations of 
their throne, and the most solid support of their power. 
The purses of their people have been ever open to supply 
their exigencies : their swords have been ever ready to 
vindicate their honour. On the contrary, those princes, 
-who, insensible to the glory and advantage of ruting a 

1 Note. It is said in divers records, '< per cotnmunitatem Angli» 
nobis concess." Because all grants of stibsidies or aids by parlia* 
ment do begin in the house of commons, and first granted by them^ 
also because in effect the whole profit which the kimg^ reapetb^ -doib 
some from the commoDs. 4. Ins. 29. 



, I 



220 ON THE lECISLATIVE AtJTHORITt 

free people, have preferred to a willing obedienee the 
abject submission of slaves, have ever experienced, that 
all endeavours to render themselves absolute were but so 
many steps to their own downfall. 

Such is the^ admirable temperament of the British 
constitution ! such the glorious fabrick of Britain's liberty 
—the pride of her citizens — ^the envy of her neigh- 
bours'—planned by her legislators — erected by her patriots 
— m^iintained entire by numerous generations past ! may- 
it be maintained entire by numerous generations to 
come! 

f 

Can the Americans, v^ho are descended from British 
ancestors, and inherit all their rights, be blamed^-^an 
riiey be blamed hy their brethren in Britain — for claim*» 
ing still to enjoy those rights ? But can they enjoy them^ 
if they are bound by the acts of a British parliament ? 
Upon what principle does the British parliament found 
their power ? Isf Jt founded on the prerogative of the 
king? His prerogative does not extend to make laws to 
bind any of his subjects. Does it reside in the lioustC of 
lords ? The peers are a collective; and not a representa- 
tive body. If it resides any where, then, it must reside 
in the house of commons. 

Should any one object here, that it docs not reside in 
the house of commons only^ because that house cannot 
make laws without the consent of the king and of the 
lords ; the answer is easy. Though the concurrence of 
all the braiiches of the legislature is necessary to every 
law ; yet the same laws bind different persons for differ* 
ent reasons, and on different prindples. The king is 
bound) because he assented to them. The lords are- 



or THE BRITISH PARLIAMSNT. 321 

bound, because they vdted for them. The representa- 
tives of the commonS) for the same reason, bind them« 

selves, and those whom they i'eptesent. 

« 

If the Americans are bound neither by the assent of 
llie king, nor by the votes of the lords, to obey acts of 
the British parliament, the sole reason why they are 
bound is, because the representatives of the commons 
of Great Britain have given their stiiFrages in favour of 
those acts. ^ But ate the representatives of the commons 
of Great Britain the representatives of the Americans ? 
Art they elected by the Americans^ Are they such as 
the Americans, if they had the power of election, would 
probably elect ? Do they know the interest of the Am«- 
ricans ? Does their own interest prompt them to pursue 
the interest of the Americans ? If they do not pursue it» 
have the Americans power to punish them ? Can the 
Americans remove unfaithful members ^t every new 
election ? Can" members, whom the Americans do not 
elect; with whom tjie Americans are not connected in 
interest ; whom the Americans cannot remove ; ovei" 
whom the Americans have tio influence — can such mem- 
bers be styled, with any propriety", the magistrates of 
the Americans ? Have those, who are bound by the laws 
of magistrates not their own, any security for the enjoy- 
ment of their absolute rights — those rights, " which 
every man is entitled to enjoy, whether in society or 
out of it?" • Is it probable that those rights will be main- 

*• This is allowed evenb]^ the advocates for parliamentary power; 
who acqount fifr its ^tension over the colonies, upon the very 
^iird ygjpciple of th^ir bein^ ynrttuUly represented in the housQ 
QixSEmox^ 

. 1. BL Com. Va, 



* 



'3fit ON THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHOHjTT 

tained ? Is it *^^ the primary end of government to jnaiaw 
tain them ?"'^ Shall this primary end be frustrated byai^ 
political maxim intended to promote it? 

But from what source does this mighty, this uncon- 
trolled authority of the house of commons flow ? From 
the collective body of the commons of Great Britam. 
This authority must, therefore, originaUy reside in them: 
for whatever fhey convey to their representatives, muist 
ultimately be in themselves. ^ And have those, whom 
we have hitherto, been accustoined to consider as our 
fellow subjects, ^an- absolute and unlinuted power over 
us^ Have they a natural right to make laws, by which 
we may be deprived of our properties, of our liberties^ 
of our lives f By what title do they claim to be our mas- 
ters I What act of ours has ^rendered us subject to those, 
to whom we were formerly equal ? Is British freedom 
denominated from the soii^ or from the people of Britainf 
If from tlie latter, do they lose it by quitting the soil i 
Do those, who embark, freemen, in Great Britain^ 
disembark, slaves, in America? Are those, who fled 
from the oppression of regal tmd miaisterial tyranny^ 
now reduced to a state of vassalage to those, who, then^ 
equally felt the same oppression I Whence proceeds thi^ 
fatal change i Is this the return made us for leaving our 
friends and our country — ^for braving the danger of the 
deep — for planting a wilderness, inhabited only by savage 
men and savage beasts — for extending the dominions of 



r 



^ 1. Bl Com. 124. 



* It is selfevident that the power, with relation to the part we 
bear in the legislation, is absolutely, is solely in the electors. W« 
have no legislative authority but what we derive from them. Debates 
«f the Commo&s, vol. 6. p. 75. 



<yr THE SRtTlSH PARLIAMXNT; 223 

iRe British erown-p— for increasing the trade of the ^ritisk 
merchants — ^for'augmenting the rents of the British land-^ 
lords— for heightening the wages of the British artificers? 
Britons should bhish to make such a claim: American* 
would blush to own it. 

It 14 not, however, the ignominy only, but the dan*^ 
ger also, with which we are threatened, that affects us« 
The many atid careful provisions which are made by the 
British constitution, that the elector's of members of 
parliament may be prevented frofn choosing representa*. 
tives, who would betray them ; and that the represen- 
tatives may be prevented from betraying their consti- 
tuents with impunity, sufficiently evince, that such 
precautions havp been deemed abaolutelj'- necessary 
for securing and maintaimng the system of British 
liberty. 

' How would the commons of Great Britain startle at 
a proposal, to deprive them of their share in the legis- 
lature, by rendering the house of commons independent 
of them! With what indignation would they hear it! 
What resentment would they feel and discover against 

the authors of it! Yet the commons of Great Britain 
« 

would suffer less inconvenience from the execution of 
such a proposal, than the Americans will suffer from the 
extension of the legislative authority of parliament over 
them. ' 

The members of parliament, their families, their 
* friends, their posterity must be subject, as well as others, 
to the l&ws. Their interest, and that of their families, 
friends, and posterity, cannot be different from the inte- 
rest of the rest of the nation. A regard to the former 



S 



224 OK THE LECJISLATIVB AUTHORlTt 

will, therefore, direct to such measures as must promote 
the latter. &ut is this the case with respect to America? 
Are the legislators of Great Britain subject to the laws 
which are made for the colonies ? Is their interest the 
same with that of the colonies? If we consider it in a 
large and comprehensive view, we shall discern it to be 
undoubtedly the same ; bul: few will take the trouble to 
consider it in that view ; and of those who do, few will 
be influenced by the consideration. ^ Mankind are usually 
more affected with a near though inferiour interest; than 
; . with one that is superiour, but placed at a greater dis- 
tance. As the conduct is regulated by the passions, ..it 
is not to be wondered at, if they secure the former, by 
measures which will forfeit the latten Nay, the lat- 
ter will frequently he regarded in the same manner as if 
it were prejudicial to them. It is with regret that I pro- 
duce some late regulations of parliament as proofs bf 
what I have advanced. We have experienced what an •• 
easy matter it is for a niinister, with an ordinary share 
of art, to persuade the parliament and the people, that 
taxes laid on the colonies will ease the burthens of the 
tnother country ; which, if the matter is considered in 
a proper light, is, in fact, to persuade them, that the 
stream of national riches will be increased by dosing up 
the fountain, from which they flow. 

As the Americans cannot avail themselves of that 
check, which interest puts upon the members of parlia- 
ment, and which would operate in favour of the commons 
of Great Britain, though they possessed no power over 
the legislature ; so the love of reputati<Hi, which is apoW« 
erful incitement to the legislators to. jM'omote the welfai^^ 
and obtain the approbaticMi, of those among whonoi thej 

Uv^ and whose pnusea or c«i»ttrea wittien^ aod affica 



' 6f THE BRITISH PARLIAlitr^IT, 225 

4thelii, may liave a contrary operation with regard to the 
tsolonies. It msvy become popular and reputable at home 
tQ oppress 143- A candidate may recommend himself 
•at his election by recounting the many successful in* 
:Btances, in which he has sacrificed the interests of 'Ame- 
rica to those of Great Britain. A member of the house 
of commons may plume himself upon his ingenuity in 
inventing schemes to serve the mpther country at the 
expense of the colonies ; and may boast of their impo- 
tent resentment against him on that accounts 

Let us pause here a little.-**-Does neither the love of 
^in, the love of praise, nor the love of hohour influence 
^he members of the British parliament in favour of the 
Americans? On what principles, then-"^n what mo- 
tives of action, tan we depend for (he security of our 
liberties, of our properties, of every thing dear to us in 
life, of life itself ? Shall we depend on their veneration 
for the dictates of natural justice ? A very little share 
of experience in the world — a very little degree of knbW'^ 
ledge in the history of men, will sufficiently convince us^ 
that a regard to justice is by no means the ruling princi- 
ple in human nature. He would discover himself to be 
a very sorry statesman, who would erect 'a system of 
jurisprudence i^pon that slender foundation. " He would 
make," as my Lord Bacon says, " imaginary laws, for 
imaginary commonwealths ; and his discourses, like the 
stars, would give little light, because they are so high.*' ^ 

But this is not the worst that can justly be said con* 
cerning the situation of the colonies, if they are bound 
by ihe acts of the British legislature* So far are those 

▼2.L4 BacSSr* 
TOL. III. G g 



Zi6 ON THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY 

powerful springs of action, which we have mentioned^ 
from interesting the members of that legislature in our 
favour, that, as has been already observed, we have thie 
greatest reason to dread their operation against us. While 
the happy commons of Great Britain congratulate, them*- ' 

. selves upon the liberty which they enjoy, and upon the 
provisions-^infallible, as far as they. can be rendered. so 
by human wisdom — which are made for perpetuating it 

, to their latest posterity ; the unhappy Americans have 
reason to bewail the dangerous situation to which they 
are reduced ; and to look forward, with dismal appre- 
hension, to those future scenes of woe, which, in all 
probability, will open upon their descendants* 

What has been already advanced will suffice to show^ 
that it is repugnant to the essential mairims of jurispru« 
dence, to the ultimate end of all governments, to the ge- 
nius of the British constitution, and to the liberty and 
happiness of the colonies, that they should be bound by 
the legislative authority of the parliament of Great Bri* 
tadn. Such a doctrine is not less repugnant to the voice 
of her laws. In order to evince this, I shall appeal to 
some authorities from the books of the law^ which show 
expressly, or by a necessary implication, that the colo- 
nies are not bound by the acts of the British parliament; 
because'they have no share ii^ the British legislature. 

The first case I shall mention was adjudged in,, the 
second year of Richard the third. It was a solemn de- 
termination of all the judges of England, met in the 
exchequer chamber, to consider whether the people ia 
Ireland were bound by an act of parliament made in 
England. They resolved, " that they were not, as to 
such things as were done in Ireland ; but that what they 



- t 



OF THE BRITISH PARLIAMENT. 



22r 



did out of Ireland must be conformable to the laws of 
£n gland, because they were the subjects of England* 
Ireland/' said they, " has a parliament, who make 
laws; and our statutes do not bind them ; because they do 
not s&nd knights to parliament: but their persons ar5 the 
subjects of the king, in the same manner as the inhabi* 
tants of Calais, Gascoignc, arid Guienne,'*^ 

This is the first case which we find in the books upon, * 
this subject; and it deserves to be. examined with the 
most minute attention. 

!• It appears, that the matter under consideration 

Kfas deemed, at that time, to be of the greatest import- 

imce : for ordinary causes are never adjourned into the 

exchequer chamber ; only such are adjourned there as 

are of uncommon weight, or of uncommon difiiculty. 

** Into the exchequer chamber," says my Lord Coke,* 

^ all cases of difficulty in the king's bench, or pommon 

pleas, &c. are, and of ancient time have been, adjourned, 

and there debated, argued, and resolved, by all the 

judges of England and barons of the exchequer." .. This 

court proceeds with the greatest deliberation, and upon 

the most mature reflection. The case is first argued 

on both sides by learned counsel ; and then openly on 

Beveral days^' by all the judges. Resolutions made with 

vso much caution, and founded on so much legal know^ 

• ledge, may be relied on as the surest evidences of what 

is law. 



s 



^2. It is to be observed, that the extent of the legis- 
lative authority ^f parliament is the^ve^;&om^of the 

"^ 4 Mod^ 395. r. R^. %% Ik Cal^ift'f caie. ^ » 4 b». 110. 



22$ 



ON THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITT 



adjudication* Th^e decision was not incidental or ind»- 
gested : it >vas not a sudden opinion, unsupported by 
i'eason and argument : it was an express and deliberate 
resolution of that very doubt, which, tbej assembled to 
resolve. 

3. It is very observable, that the reason, which those 
reverend sages of the law gave, why the people in Ire- 
land were not bound by^ an act of parliament made in 
England, was the same with that, on which the Americans 
have founded their opposition to the late statutes made 
concerning them. The Irish did not send members to 
parliament; and, therefore,, they were not bound by its 
acts. From hence it undeniably appears, that parliamen- 
tary authority is derived solely from representation< — that 
those,, who are bound by acts q£ parliament, are bound 
for this only reason", because they are represented, ia it. 
If it were not the only reason, parliamentary authority 
might subsist independent of it. But as parliamentary 
authority fails whereyer this^^ reason does not operate, 
parliamentary authority can be founded on no other prin- 
ciple. The law never ceases, but when the reason of it 
ceases also. 



4* It deserves to be remarked, that no exception i» 
made of any statutes, which bind those who are tiot rer 
presented by the makers of thera. The resolution of 
the judges extends to every statute : they say, without 
limitation-^" our statutes do not bind them." And in- 
deed the. resolution ought to extend to every statute ; 
because the reason, on which it is founded, extends to 
every one. If a person is bound only|because ,he is re- 
presented, it bust certainly follow that wherever, he is 
not represented he i^not boimd.. No soundc argument 



or THE BRITISH PARLIAHTENr. 



1^0^ 



^an be offered, why one statute should be obligatory i» 
such circdmstances, and nbt another. If we cannot be 
deprived of our property by those, whom we do not 
eommission for that purpose ; can we, without any such 
commission, be deprived, by them, of our lives ? Have 
those aright to imprison and gibbet us, who have not « 
sight to tax ui ? 

5. From this authority it follows, that it is by na 
means a rule, that the authority of parli^ament extends 
to all the subjects of the -crown. The inhabitants of Ire- 
land were' the subjects of the king as of his crown of 
England ; but it is expressly resolved, in the most solemn 
manner, that the inhabitants of Ireland are not bound by 
the statutes of £ngland. Allegiance to the king and 
obedience to the parliament are founded on very 
different principles. The former is * founded on protec* 
tion : the latter, on representation. An inattention to 
this difference has produced, I apprehend, much uncer* 
tainty and confusion in #ur ideas concerning the con-^ 
jiexbn, which ought to subsist between Great Britain 
iind the American colonies. 

6. The last observation which I shall make on this 
«a^ is, that if the inhabitants of Ireland are not bound 
by acts of parliament made in England, a fortiori^ the 
inhabitants of the American colonies are not bound by 
them. There are marks of the subordination of Ireland 
to Great Britain^ which cannot be traced in the colonies. 
A writ of erroiir lies from the king's bench in Ireland, t 
to the king's bench, and consequently to the house of 
liorxlsy in Englanct:; by'W^bich means thg foi^mer kingdofm 



7 4. las. 856. 



i$ .subject to the control of the eoarta of justice of the 
l^ter kingdom. But. a writ of errour does not lie in 
the kifng's bench^ nor before the house of lords, in £n-» 
gl^md^ from the colonies df America* The* proceedings 
in th^ir courts of justice can be reviewed sind controlled: 
only on an appeal to the king in cpunciL ' 

The foregoing important decision, favourable to the 
liberty of all the dominions of the British crown that 
are not represented in th^ British Pariiament, has been 
corroborated by subsequent adjudications. I shall men- 
tion one that was given in the king's b^ach, in the fifth 
year of King William and Queen Mary^ between Blanks 
ard and Galdy. ^ 

• ... 
The plaintiff was provost iii^f^al of Jamaica, and by 
articles, granted a deputation of that office to the-defen* 
dant, under a yearly rent* Th« defendant gave his bond 
for the performance of the agreement ; and an action of 
debt was brought upon that bosd* In bar of the actios^ 
the defendant pleaded the statute of 5* £d^• 6. made 
against buying and selling of offices that c<!>ncem the ad^ 
ministration of justice, and averred that th^s office con* 
cemed the administration of justice in Jamaica, and that, 
by virtue of that statute, both the bond and articles were 
void. To this plea the plaintiff replied, that Jamaica was an 
island inhabited formerly by the Spaniards, " that itwas 
Conquered by the subjects of the kingdom of England^ 
commissioned by legal and sufficient a^uthority for that 
purpose ; and that since that conquest ita inhabitants 
were regulated' and governed by their own proper laws 
^d statues, and not by acts xif parlislnent or the sta^ 
tutes of the kingdom of England." The defendant, in 

. i. " • ■ 
> 1. Bl. Com. 108. 2^ t » 4. Mod. 215. Salk. 411. 



\ 



-01 THJE BRITISH YArLiAHBHT. ' S4l 

l^ rejoinder, admits that, before the conquest of Jatnai^ 
ca by. the finglish, the inhabitants vere governed by 
their own laws, but alleges that ^^ since the con4ae8t'it 
wa& part of the kingdom of England, and governed*by 
the laws and statutes of the kingdom of England, and not 
by laws and statutes peculiar to the island»^' To this 
rejoinder the fdaintiff demurred, and the. defendant joined 
indemurrer« 



T 
'« 



Here was a cause to be determined judicially upon this 
single question in law*— Were the sitt^ of parliament or 
statutes of England in force in Jamaica ? It was argued 
OB the opposite sides by lawyers. of the greatest emi* 
nence, before Lord Chief Justice Holt (a name renowned 
m the law) and his brethren, the justices of the king's 
bench, Thejr unanimously gave judgment for tha plain* 
tiff; and, by that judgment, expressly determiued— ? 
That the acts of parliament or statutes of England wer^ 
fkot ia force in Jamaica. This decision is explicit in fa- 
vour of America ; for whatever was resolved concerning 
Jamaica is equally applicable to every American co- 
lony» 

Some years after the adjudication of this case, ano« 
ther was determined in the king's bench, relating to 
Virginia; in which Lord Chief Justice Holt held, -that 
the laws of England did not extend to Virginia. '' 

I must not be so uncandid as to conceali that in Cal- 
vin's case, where the above mentioned decision of the 
judges in the exchequer chamber, concerning Ireland, 
is quoted, it is added, by way of explanation of that 
authority, — " which is to be understood, unless it (Ire- 

b Sajk. 666. 



/' 



iB3ft OK TfllB XEGMLATIVB AtrffiOHlTT 



*• 



Ijmd) be especially named." Nor will I conceal thai 
the same exception ^ is taken notice of, and seems to be 
allowed, by the judges in the other cases relating to 
America. To any objection that may, hence, be formed 
against my doctrine, I answer, in the words of the very 
Accurate Mr. Justice Foster, that ^^ general rules throwii 
out in argument, and carried farther than the true state 
of the case then in judgment requireth, have, I confessi 
no great weight with me." ^ 

The question before the judges in the , cases I haT:e 
reasoned from, was not bow far the naming of persons 
in an act of parliament would affect them ; though, un- 
less named, they would not be lK>und^foy it: the ques« 
tion was, whether the legislative authority of parKament 
lextended over the inhabitants of Ireland or Jamaica 
or Virginia. To the resolution of the latter question 
^e resolution of the former was by no means necessary, 
and was, therefore, wholly impertinent to the point of 
the adjudication. 

But farther, the reason assigned for the resolution of 
the latter question is solid and convincing : the Ameri- 
can colonies are not bound by the acts of the British 
parliament, because they are not represented in it. But 
what reason can be assigned why they should be bound 
by those acts, in which they are specially named ? Does 
naming them give those, who do them that honour, a 
right to rule over themf Is this the source of the supreme, 

6 This exception does not seem to be taken in the case of 
fUL Riehard HL which was the foundation of an the subsequent 



^ Post. 31S. 



OF THE BRITISH PARLIAMENT. 23$' 

tlie absolute, the irresistible, the uncontrolled autho- 
rity of parliament i These positions are too absurd 
to be alleged ; and a thousand judicial determinations 
in their favour would never induce one man of sense to 
subscribe his assent to them* ® 

The obligatory force of the Briti^ statutes upon the 
colonies, when named in them, must be accounted for, 
by the advocates of that power, upon some other prin- 
ciple. In my Lord Coke,'s Reports, it is said, ^^ that 
albeit Ireland be a distinct domiaion, yet, the title 
thereof being by conquest^ the same, by judgment of 
law, may be, by express words, bound by the parlia- 
ments of England." In this instance, the obligatory 
authority of the parliament is plainly referred to a title 
by conquest, as its foundation and original. In the. 
instances relating to the colonies, this authority seem» 

t Where a decision is manifestly absurd and unjust, such a sen- 
tence is not law. 1. Bl Com. 70. 

The legality of the opinion " that the people in Ireland were 
bound by the statutes of England, when particularly named by 
them," seems alberwards to have been doubted of by Lord Coke 
himself, in another place of his works. After having mentioned 
the resolution in the exchequer chamber in the time of Richard the 
third, and having taken notice that quesdon is made of it in some 
of the books, and particularly in Calvin's case, he says, " that the 
question concerning the binding force of English statutes over Ii-e* 
land is now by common experience and opinion without any scruple 
reserved ; that the acts of parliament made in England, since the 
Act of the 10th H. 7. (he makes no exceptions) do not bind tUem in 
Ireland ; but aU acts made in England before 10. H. 7. by the said 
act made in Ireland An, \0.H. 7. c. 32, do bind them in Ireland." 12. 
Rep. 111. , 

VOL, IIIp h h 



\ 



•*34 ON THE L£GI6LATIV£ AUTHORIXr 

t6 be referred to the same source ; for any one, wh0. 
compares what is said of Irelahd> and other conquered 
countries, in Calvin's case, with what is said of America, 
in the adjudications concerning it, will find that the 
judges, in determining the latter, have grounded their 
opinions on the resolutions given in the former. ^ It is 
foreign to my purpose to inquire into the reasonableness 
of founding the authority of the British parliament over 
Ireland, upon the title of conquest, though I believe it 
would be somewhat difficult to deduce it satisfactorily in 
this manner. It will be sufficient for me to show, that 
k is unreasonable, and injurious to the coloilies^ to 
extend that title to them. How came the colonists to 
be a conquered people? By whom was the conquest 
over them obtained ? By the house of commons i By the 
constituents of that house i If the idea of conquest must 
be taken into consideration wi)en we examine into the 
title by which America is held,, that idea, so far as it 

f It is plain that Blackstone understood the opinion of the judget 
•—that the colonies are bound by acts of the British parliament, if 
named in them — to be founded on the principle of conquest it 
will not be imprq>er to insert his commentary upon the resolntioiiff 
respecting America. ^ Besides these adfaceat islands, (Jersey, &c.) 
oar more distant plantations in America and elsewhere are also, ^ 
some reacts, subject to the J^gUshlaws. Plantations, or colonie* 
in distant countries, are either such where the lands are claimed ixk^ 
right of occupancy only, by finding them desart and uncultivated^ 
and peopling them from the mother country; or where, when, 
already cultivated, they have been either gained by conquest, or 
ceded to us by treaties. , Our Anierican plantations are princ^^y 
of this latter sort ; being obtained in the last century, evdier hyrigh^ 
ofconqueH^ and driving out the natives (with what natural justiso 
I shall not at present inquire) or by treaties.'' 1. RL Com. 106. l^)?". 
^ Lord Chief Justice Holt, in a case above cited, calls^ix^i^ia'ir 
conquered country. Salk;6$6.' 



OF THE BRITISH PARLIAMENT. 



235 



can operat^) will operate in favour of the colonists,, and 
not against them. Permitted and commissioned byitbe 
crown, they undertook, at their own expense, expedi^ 
tions to this distant country, took possession of it, planted 
ft, and cultivated it* Secure under the protection of 
their king, they grew and multiplied, and diffused British 
freedom and British spirit, wherever they came* Happy 
in the enjoyment of liberty, and in reaping the fruits of 
their toils ; .but still more happy in the joyful prospect 
of transmitting their liberty and their fortunes to the latest 
posterity, they inculcated to their children the wannest 
sentiments of loyalty to their sovereign, under whose 
auspices they enjoyed so many blessings, and of,liffection 
and e&teem for the inhabitants of the mother country, with 
whom they gloried in being intimately connected* X^es- 
sons of loyalty to parliament, indeed, they never gave: 
they never suspected that such unheard of loyalty would 
be required* They never suspected that their descendants 
would be considered and treated as a conquet-ed people $ 
imd therefore they never taught them the submission and 
abject behaviour suited to that character. 



'I am sufficiendy aware of an objection, that will be 
tdade to what I have aald concerning the legislative au- 
thority of the British parliament* It will be alleged, that 
I throw off all dependence on Great Britain* .This ob- 
jection will be held forth, in its most specious cqlovirs, by 
those, who, from servility of soul, or from mercenary cto- 
siderations, would meanly bow their necks to every easer* 
tion of arbitrary pi>wer : it may likewise alarm some^ who 
entertain the most fiavourable opihion of the connexion 
between Great Britain and her colonies ; but who areno^ 
sufficiently acquainted with the nature of that connexion, 
which is so dear to them* Those of the first class, I hope, 



236 OW THE lECISLATlVE AUTHrORlTT 

V are few ; I am sure they are contemptible, and deserve 
to ha^re very^ little regard paid to them : but for the sake 
of those of the second class, who may be more numerous^ 
and whose laudable principles atone for their mistakes, I 
•h^ take some pains to obviate the objection, and to show 
that a denial of the lejg^slative authority of the British 
parliament over America is by no means inconsistent 
with that connexion, which ought to subsist between the 
mother. country and her colonies, and which, at the first 
settlemoit of thos^ colonies, it was intended to maintain 
between them^: but that, on the contrary, that connexion 
would be entirely destroyed by the extension of ^c 
power of parliament over the American plantations. 

Let US examine what is meant by a tiSr/»en^<mc^ on Great 

•Britain: for it is always of importance clearly to define 

the terms that we use. Blackstone, who, speaking of the 

colonies, tells us, that *^ they are no part of the mother 

:** country, but distinct (thoiigh^dependcnt) dominions," i^ 

eecplains dependence in this manner. ^^ Dependence is 

^^ very little else, but an obligation to conform to the will 

^^ or law of that superiour person or stftte, upon which the 

^* inferiour depends* The original and true ground of fliis 

** superiority, in the case of Ireland, hi what we usually 

^ call, though somewhat improper^, the right of con- 

** quest ; a right allowed by the law of nations, if not by 

^* that of nature ; but which, in reason and civil jxdicy, 

•^ can mean nothing more^ than that, in order to put an end 

^ to hostilities, a compact is eifher expressly or tacitly 

^ made between the conqueror and the conquered, that if 

^* they will acknowledge the victor for their master, he 

^^ will treat them for the future as subjects^ and not as 

*♦ enemies.'' '^ 

i ^. BL Coin. lor. iild.103. 



t>r THfi BRITISH PAftLlAHEMT*- %3T 

The original and true groutid of thie fiuperiori^ o£ 
Great Britain over the American colonies is not shown in 
any book of the law, unless, as I have alreadjr observed, 
it be derived from the right of conquest. But I haye 
pfTOved, and I hope satisfactorily, that this right is alto- 
gether inapplicable to th^ colonists. The original of th^ 
superiority of Great Britain over the colonies is^ then^ 
unaccounted for ; and when we consider the ingenuity 
and pains which have lately been employed at home on 
this subject^ we may justly conclude^ that the only reason 
.why it is not accounted fpr, is, that it eannot be accounted 
fan The superiority of Great Britain over the colonies 
ought, therefore, to be rejected j and the dependence of 
the colonies upon her, if it is to be construed ii^to ^^ an 
obligation to conform to the will or law of the superiour 
state," ought, in this sense, to be rejected also. 

My sentiments concerning this matter are not singular* 
They coincide with the declarations and remonstrances of 
the colonies against the statutes imposing taxes op them* 
Jt was their unanimous opinion, that the pa^rlianient have 
no right to exact obedience to those statutes ^ and, con- 
-sequendy, that the c<Jonies are under no obligation to 
obey them. The dependence of the colonies on Great 
Britain was denied, in those instances ; but a denial of it 
in those instances is, in effect, a denial of it in all. other 
instances. Fbr, if dependence is an obligation to conform 
to. the will or law of the superiour st^te, any exceptions 
to that obligation mu^t destroy the dependence. If,.theire* 
fore, by a dependence of the colonies on Great Britain, 
it is mejant, that they are obliged to obey the laws of 
.<^reat Britain, reason, as well as the unanimous voice of 
the Americans, teaches us to disown it* Such a depen« 
dence was never thought of by those who left Britain, in^ 



18S8 ON THE LEOIftLATlTB AXTTBORITT 

f 



order to settle in America ; nor by their sovereigns, who 
gave them commissions for that purpose. Such an obli«- 
gation has no correspondent right : for the comnxmB of 
d^at Britain have no dominion over their equals and 
fellow subjects In America : they can confer no rig;lit 
to their delegates to bind those equals and fellow subjects 
bylaws. 

There is another, and a much more reasonable mean* 

ing, which may be intended by the dependence of the 

colonies on Great Britain. The phrase may be used to 

denote the obedience and loyalty, which the colonists 

owe to the iings of Great Britain. If it should be al** 

leged, that this cannot be the meaning of the expression^ 

because it is applied to the kingdom, and not to the king-^ 

I give the same answer that my Lord Bacon gave to those 

who said that allegiance related to the kingdom and not 

to the king ; because in the statutes there are these 

words — ^^ bom within the allegiance of England" — and 

again — ^^ bom without the allegiance of England*'' 

^ There is no trope of speech more fiimiltar," says he^ 

** than to use the place of addition for the person. So 

We say commonly, die line of York, or the line of Lan«» 

caster, for the lines of the duke of York, or the duke of 

Lancaster. So we say the possessions of Somerset or 

Warwick, intending the possessions of the dukes of 

Somerset, or earh of Warwick. And in the very same 

manner, the statute spei^s, allegiance of Engfamd, for 

allegiance of the king of England."^ 

Dependence on the mother country seems to have 
been understood in this sense, both by the first pla&tem 

^ 4 Ld. Bac 193. 19a. Caseof tkepostoadofScotlaiil. 



or THE BRITISH PARLIAMENT. 239* 

of the colonies, anci also by the most eTuinent lawyers^ 
at that time, in England. 

Those who launched into the unknown deep, in quest 
of new countries and habitations, still considered them* 
selves as subjects of the English monarchs, and behaved 
suitably to that character ; but it no where appesir&, that 
they still considered themselves as represented in an 
English parliament,, or that they thought the authority of 
the English parliament extended over them. They took 
possession of the country in the king^s name : they treat- 
ed, or made war with the Indians by his authority : they 
held the lands under his gtants^ and paid Aim the rents 
reserved upon them : tliey established governments un- 
der the sanction of his prerogative, or by virtue of his- 
charters : — ^no application for those purposes was made 
to the parliament : no ratification of the charters or let- 
ters patent was solicited from that assembly, as is u«uat 
in Etigland with regard to grants and franchises of muchs 
less importance. 

My Lord Bacon^s sentiments on thk subject ought to, 
have great weight with «:is. His immense genius, his uni»- 
versal learning, his deep insight into the laws and constitu-- 
tionof England, are well known and much admired. Be-- 
fiides, he lived at that time when settling and improving the 
Americanplantations began seriously tobe attended to, and 
successfully to be carried into execution. J Plans for the 
government and regulation of the colonies were then? 
forming : and it is only from the first general idea of 

j During the reign of Queen EHzabetb, America was chidBy 
valued on accoimt of its mines. It was not tiU the reign of James 1. 
that any vigoroiis i^ttetspts were madt to ctei^r andim^ye the soil^ 



24© ON THE LEGISLATXYj;: AUTHORITY 

these plans, that we can unfold, with precision and ale- 
curacy, all the more niinute and intricate paris^ of which 
they now consist* " The settlement of colonics," says 
. he, ^^ must proceed from the option of those iwho will 
settle them, else it sounds lilce an exile : they must be 
raised by the kave^ and not by the command oi Hit king. 
At their setting out, they must have their commission, 
or letters patent, from the king^ that so they may ac- 
knowledge their dependency upon the crovm of England, 
and under his protection." In another place he says, 
"^ that they still must be subjects of the realm*** k " In 
order to regulate all the inconveniences, which wiO kn^ 
sensibly grow upon them," he proposes, ^V that the king^ 
should erect a subordinate council in England, whose 
care and charge shall be, to advise, and put in execution, 
all things which shall be found fit for the good of those 
new plantations ; who, upon all occasions, shall give an 
account of their proceedings to the king or the council 
board, andfrom them receive such directions^ as may best 
agree with the government of that place."* It is evident, 
from these quotations, that my Lord Bacon had no con- 
ception that the parliament would or ought to interpose,*" 
either in the settlement or the ^government of the colo- 
nijes* The only relation, in which he says the calonists 
must still continue, is that of subjects ; the only depen- 

^ Tlie parliameDt have no subjects. My Lord Bacon, gives, m 
this expression, an instance of the trope of speech before mention* 
ed He safs, the subjects of Uie reaini^ when he means the subjects 
^ the king df the realm. 

1 1 . Ld. Bac. 725, 726. 

n It was chiefly duriiig the ccmfuaions of the republic^, wh^ the 
khig was in exile, and aoable to assert his ri^^ts,, that the house of 
oomrnQos-beipw to interfere in CQlony inajtjters^' 



( 
I 



or THE BRITISH PAKLIAMENT. 341 

dency, which they ought to acknowledge, is a depen- 
dency on the ciown. 

> 

This IS a dependence, which they have acknowledged 
hitherto ; which they acknowledge nbw ; and which, if 
it is reasonable to judge of the future by the past and the 
present, they will continue to acknowledge hereafter. It 
18 not a dependence, like that contended for on parliament, 
slavish and unaccountable, or accounted for only by prin- 
ciples that are false and inapplicable : it is a dependence 
founded upon the principles of reasoi), of liberty, and of, 
law* Let us investigate its sources. 

The colonists'ought to be dependent on the king, be* 
cause they have hitherto enjoyed, and still continue to 
enjoy, his protection. Allegiance is the faith and obe- 
dience, which every subject owes to his prince4 This 
obedience is founded on the protection derived from. 
' government 2 for protection and allegiance are the reci- 
procal bonds, which connect the prince and his subjects. '^ 
Every subject, so soon as he is bom, is under the royal 
protection, and is entitled to all the advantages arising 
from it. He therefore owes obedience to that ro\al 
power, from which the protection, which he enjoys, is 
derived. But while he continues in infancy and non-age, 
he cannot perform the duties which his allegiance re- 
quires. The performance of them must be respited till 
he*arrive at the years of discretion and maturity. When 

» Between the sovereign and subject there is duplex et recipro- 
cum ligamen ; quia sicut subditus regi tenetur ad obedientiam ; ita 
rex subdito tenetur ad protectionem : merito igitur ligeantia dicitur 
a ligando, quia continet in se duplex ligamen. 7. Rep, 5a. Calvin's 
case. 

YOd. III. 11 



342 eW THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY 

he arrives at those years, he owes obedience, not only for 
the protection which he now enjoys, but abo for that 
'which, from his birth, he has enjoyed ; and to which his 
tender age has hitherto prevented him from mdcing a 
suitable return. Allegiance now becomes a duty founded 
upon principles of gratitude, as well as on principles of 
interest : it becomes a debt, which nothing but the loyalty 
of a whole life will discharge. ^ As neither climate, nor 
soil, nor time entide a person to the benefits of a subject; 
so an alteration of climate, of soil, or of time cannot 
release him from the duties of one. An Englishman, 
who removes to foreign countries, however distant from 
England, owes the same allegiance to his king there 
which he owed him at home ; and will owe it twenty 
years hence as much as he owes it now. Wherever he is, he 
is still liable to the punishment annexed by law to crimes 
against his allegiance ; and still entitled to thesadvantages 
promised by law. to the duties of it : it is not cancelled i 
and it is not forfeited. ^^ Hence all childi'en bom in any 
'^ part of the world, if they be of English |torents con* 
^* tinning at that time as liege subjects to the king, and 
" having done no act to forfeit the- benefit Of their alle- 
" giance, are /^*o yiic^a naturalized : and if they have 
^ issue, and their descendants intermarry among them* 
^ selves, such descendants are naturalized to all genera- 
« tions." P 

o The king is protector of all his subjects : in virtue of hb high 
trust, he is more particularly to take care of those who are not 
aUe to take care of themselves, consequeatly of in&nts, who, bj 
re^sGii of their oooage, are under incapacities ; from hence natural 
aUe^iance arises, as a debt of gratitude, which can never be can- 
celled, though the subject owing it goes out of the kingdom, or 
swears allegiuice to another prince. 3. P. Wms. 123. 134. 

9 i.Ld.Bacl93.Caseofthepo6tiiatiofScotIaiMi 



OT THE 9RITXS^ ?ARL1AM£NT» %4t^ 

Thu3 we see, that the subjeets of the k^ng, thoa^ 
tjiey reside in foreign countries, still owe the ^duties of 
aHegiance, and are still entitled to the advantages of it« 
They transmit to their posterity the privilege of naturali- 
zation, and all the other privileges which are the con- 
sequences of it* t 

Now we have explained the dependence of the Ame- 
ricans. Th^yare thesubject3of the king of Great Britain. 
They owe him allegiance. They have a right to the 
benefits which arise from preserving that allegiance invio- 
late* They are liable to the punishments which await 
those who break it. This is a dependence, which they 
have always boasted of. The principles of loyalty are 
deeply rooted in their hearts ; and there they will grow 
and bring forth fruit, while a drop of vital blood remains 
%o nourish them. Their history is not stained with 
rebellious and treasonable machinations: an inviolable 
attachment to their sovereign^ and the warmest zeal for 
his glory, shine in every page. I 

From ibis dependence, abstracted from eveiy other 
source, arises a strict connexion between the inhabitants 
of Great Britain and those of America. They are fel- 
low subjects ; they are under allegiance to the same 
prioce ; and this union of allegiance naturally produces 
n ttftion of hearts. It is also productive of a union of 
oflMsasttres through the whole British dominions. To the 

^ Natural bom subjects have a great variety o^ rights, irhich 
they acquire by being bom in the king's ligeance/ and can never 
forfeit by any distance of place or time, but only by their own mis* 
behaviour ; the explanation of which rights is the principal subject 
ofthela\V. 1. Bl.C0m.3n. 



I 



544 OK' THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY 

king is intrusted the direction and management of the 
great machine of government. He therefore is fittest 
to adjust the different wheels, and to regulate their 
motions in such a manner as to cooperate in the saikie 
general designs. He makes war: he concludes peace: 
he forms alliances ; he regulates domestick trade hy his 
prerogative, and. directs foreign commei;ce by his treaties' 
with those nations, with whom it is carried on. He 
names the officers of government ; so that he can check 
every jarring movement in the administration. He has 
a negative on the different legislatures throughout his 
dominions, so that he can prevent any repugnancy in . 
their different laws. 

The connexion and harmony between Great Britain 
and us, which it is her interest and ours mutually to cul- 
tivate, and on which her prosperity, as well as ours, so 
materially depends, will be better preserved by the opera- 
tion of the legal prerogatives of the crown, than by the 
exertion of an unlimited authority by parliament.' 

^ After consideriDg, with all the attention of which I am capaUet 
the foregoing opinion— that all the different members of the British 
empire ^re distinct states, independent of each other, but connected 
together under the same sovereign in right of the same crown — ^I 
discover only one objection that can he offered against it. But this 
objection will, by many, be deemed a fatal one. " How, it will 
be urged, can the trade of the British empire be carried on, withoot 
some power, extending over the whole, to regulate it ? The legis. 
lative authority of each part, according to your doctrine, is confiiied 
witi)in the loc^ bounds of that part : how, then, can so many inter- 
fering interests and claims, a^ must necessarily meet and contend! 
in the commerce of the whole, be decided and adjusted ?" ' 

Permit me to answer these questions by proposing some others 
in my turn. How has the trade of Europe — how has the trade of 



Of THE BRITISH PARLIAMENT. 



MS 



Che whole globe, been carried on? Have those widely extended 
plans been formed by one superintendmg power? Have they beeii 
carried into execution by one superintending power ? Have they 
been formed — ^have they been carried into execution, with less con- 
formity to the rules of justice and equality, than if they had been 
under the direction of one superintending power ? 

/ 

It has been the opinion of some politicians, of no inferiour note, 
that all regulations of trade are usele^ ; that the greatest part of 
them are hurtful ; and that the streaiti of commerce Aever flows 
with so much beauty and advantage, as when it is not diverted 
£rom its natural channels. Whether this opinion is well founded or 
not, let others determine. Thus much may certainly be said, that ' 
commerce is not so properly the object of laws, as of treaties and 
compacts. In this manner, it has been always directed among th«. 
several nations of Europe. 



But if the commerce of the British empire must be regulated bf 
a general superintending power, capable of exerting its influenc* 
over every part of it, why may not this power be intrusted to th« 
king, as a part of the royal prerogative ? By making treaties> 
which it is his prerogative to make, Jie directs the trade of Great 
Brit^ with the other states of Europe : and his treaties witli thos« 
states have, when considered with regard to his subjects, aUthe 
binding force of laws upon them. (1. Bl. Com. 352.) Where is 
the absurdity in supposing him vested with the same right to regu- 
late the commerce of the distinct parts of his dominions with one 
another, which he has to regulate their commerce with foreign 
states ? If the history of the British constitution, relating to this 
Subject, be carefully traced, I apprehend we shall discover, that a 
prerogative in the crown, to regulate trade, is perfectly consistent 
with the principles of law. We find many authorities that the 
king cannot lay impodtions on traffick ; and that he cannot restrain 
it altogether J nor confine it to monopolists: but none of the autho- 
rities, that I have had an opportunity of consulting, gp any &rther. 
Indeed many of them seem to imply a power m the crown to regu- 
late trade, where that power is exerted for the great end of aU 
prerogative— the piiblick good. 



ON TK^.LEGlSLATXVJt' AUTHORITY, &C* 

if the power of regulating trade be, as I am apt to believe it te 
be, Tested) by ^e pxiociples of the constitution, in the crown, this 
good efiect will flow from the doctrine : a perpetual distinction will 
be kept up between that power, and a power of laying impositions on 
trade. The prerogative will extend to the former: it can, under 
no pretence, extend to the latter : as it is given, so it is linuted^ by 
the la w. 



SPEECH 



DELIVERS]) IN THE 



CONVENTION FOR THE PROVINCE 



OF 



PENNSYLVANIA, 



HELD AT PHCLADELPHU, 



IN^ANUAET, 1775. 



* i 



SPEECH 

IN CONVENTION, 
IN JANUARY, 1575. 



W HENCE, Sir, proceeds all the invidious and ill- 
grounded clamour against the colonists of America? Why 
are they stigmatized, in Britain, as licentious and ungo- 
vernable? Why is their virtuous opposition to the illegal at- 
tempts of their governours represented under the falsest 
colours, and placed in the most ungracious point ot 
view i This opposition, when exhibited in its true light 
and when viewed, with unjaundiced eyes, from a proper 
situation, and at a proper distance, stands confessed the 
lovely offspring of freedom* It breathes the spirit of 
its parent. Of this ethereal spirit, the whole conduct, 
and particularly the late conduct, of the colonists has 

« 

shown them eminently possessed. It has animated and 
regulated every part of. their proceedings. It has been 
recognised to be genuine, by aU those symptoms and 

VOL* HI. K k 



/ 



250 SPEECH DEltVERED IN THE 

effects, by which it has been distinguished in otfifer ages* 
and other countries. It has been calm and regular : if 
has not acted without occasion : it has not acted disproi- 
portionably to the occasion. As the attempts, open or 
secret, to undermine or to destroy it, have been repeated 
or enforced ; in a just degree, its vigilance and its vigour 
have been exerted to defeat or Uo disappoint them. A» 
its exertions have been sufficient for those purposes 
hitherto, let us hence draw a joyful • prognostick, that 
they will continue sufficient for those purposes hereafter. 
It h not yet exhausted ; it will still operate irresistibly 
whenever a necessary occasion shall call forth ks strengths 

Permit me, sir, by appealing, in a few instances, to 
the 9[>irk and conduct of the colonists, to evince, that 
what I have sard of them is just. Did they disclose any 
imeasiness at the proceedings and claims of the British 
parliament, before those claims and proceedings afforded 
a reasonable cause for It ? Did they even disclose any un^ 
easiness, when a reasonable cause for it was first given ? 
Our rights were invaded by their regulations of otn* irtfc 
temal policy. We submitted to tbem : we were unw3- 
ling to oppoi^e them. The spirit of liberty was sl6w td 
acti Mfhen those invasions were renewfed; when the 
efficacy and malignancy of them were attempted to be 
redoubled by the stamp act ; when chains were farmed 
for us J and preparations were made for rivetting thfem 
on our limbs— what measures did we pursue l- The s:pU 
rit of liberty found it necessary now to act: but she 
acted with the calmness and decent dignity suited to her 
character. Were we rash or seditious i Did we dis^ 
cover want of loyalty to our soyereign ? Di* ire bt&itf 
want of affection to our brethren in Britain? Let6iii^ 
dutiful and reverential petitions to the tIirote^-4<r6ttJr 






CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA. 251 

irespectful, though firm, remonstrances to the parliament 
—let our warm and affectionate addresses to our brethren, 
and (we will still call them) our friends in Great Britain 
——let all those, transmitted from every part of the conti- 
-iient) testify the truth. By their testimony let our con- 
.duct be tried. 

. As our proceedings during the existence and operation 
of the stamp act prove fully and incontestably the painful 
sensations that tortured our breasts from the prospect of 
^disunion with Britain ; the peals of joy, which burst 
forth upiversally, upon the repeal of that ddious statute, 
loudly proclaim the heartfelt delight produced in us by a 
reconciliation with her. Unsuspicious, because unde- 
signing, we buried our complaints, and the causes of 
them, in oblivion, and returned, with eagerness, >to our 
former unreserved confidence. Our connexion with our 
parent country, and the reciprocal blessings resulting 
from it to her and to us, were the favourite and pleasing 
vtopicks of our publick discourses and our private con^ 
versations.. Lulled into delightful security, we dreamt 
iof nothing bjut increasing fondness and friendship, ce-* 
<mented and strengthened by a kind and perpetual com* 
.^munication of good offices. Soon, however, too soon^ 
were we awakened from the soothing dreams! Our 
enemies renewed their designs against us, not with less 
•malice, but with iqore art. Under the plausible pretence 
of regulating our trade, and, at the same time, of making 
provision for the administration of justice, and the sup- 
port of government, in some of the colonies, they pur- 
-sued their scheme of dejniving us of Our property with- 
out our consent* As the attempts to distress us, and to 
degrade us to a rank inferiour to that of freemen^ ap» 
peared now t& \^ r«due/^.d into a regular fiyl^teni, it 



\ 
I 



252 SPEECH DELIVERED IN THE 

became proper, on our part, to form a regular system 
for counteracting them. We ceased to import goods 
from Great Britain. Was this measure dictated t^ 
selfishness or by licentiousness ? Did it not injure our- 
selves, while it injured the British merchants and manu- 
facturers ? Was it inconsistent with the peaceful demea- 
nour of subjects to abstain from making purchases, when 
our freedom and our safety rendered it necessary for us 
to abstain from them i A regard for our freedom and 
our safety was our only motive ; for no sooner had the 
parliament, by repealing part of the revenue laws, ip-i 
spired us with the flattering hopes that they had departed 
from their intentions of oppressing and of taxing us, 
than we forsook our plan for defeating those intentions, 
and began to import as formerl)^ Far from being 
peevish or captious, we took no publick notice even of 
their declaratory law of dominion over us : our can- 
dour led us to consider it as a decent expedient of 
retreating from the actual exercise of that dominion. 

But, alas ! the root of bitterness still remained. The 
duty on tea was reserved to furnish occasion to the minis- 
try for a new eifort to enslave and to ruin us ; and the 
East India Company were chosen, and consented, to be 
the detested instruments of ministerial despotism and 
cruelty. A cargo of their tea arrived at Boston. By a 
low artifice of the govemour, and by the wicked activity 
of the tools of government,- it was rendered impossible to 
store it up, or to send it back ; as was done at other places. 
A number of persons unknown destroyed it. 

Let us here make a concession to our enemies : let us 
suppose that the transaction deserves all the dark and 
hideous colours, in which they have painted it ; let us even 



CONVENTION OF rSNNSTLVAMlA. 358 

suppose — for our cause admits of an excess of candour-— 
that all their exaggerated accounts of it were confined 
strictly to the truth : what will follow ? Will it follow, 
that every British colony in America, or even the colony 
of Massachussetts Bay, or even the town of Boston in that 
colony, merits the imputation of being factious and sedi* 
tious i LeH the frequent mobs and riots that have happen* 
ed in Great Britain upon much more trivial occasions 
shame our calumniators into silence. Will it follow, be- 
cause the rules of order and regular government were, 
in that instance, violated by the offenders, that, for this 
reason, the principles of the constitution, and the maxims 
of justice, must be violated by their punishment ? Will it 
follow, because those who were guilty could not be known, 
that, therefore, those who were known not to be guilty- 
must suffer ? Will it follow, that even th% guilty should 
be condemned without being heard ? — ^That they should 
be condemned upon partial testimony, upon the represen- 
tations of their avowed and embittered enemies ? Why 
were they not tried in courts of justice known to their 
constitution, and by juries of their neighbourhood? Their 
courts and their juries were not, in the case of Captain 
Preston, transported beyond the bounds of justice by their 
resentment : why, then, should it be presumed, that, in 
the case of those offenders, they would be prevented from 
doing justice by their affection ? But the colonists, it 
seems, must be stript of their judicial, as well as of their 
legislative powers. They must be bound by a legislature, 
they must be tried by a jurisdiction, not their own. Their 
constitutions must be changed : their liberties must be 
abridged : and those^ who shall be most infamously active 
in changing their constitutions and abridging their liber- 
ties, must, by an express provision, be exempted from 
punishment. 



t354 S?££GH DELIVERC0 IN THE 

I do not exaggerate the matter, sir, when I extend 
these observations to all the colonists. The parliament 
meant to extend the effects of their proceedings to all 
the colonists* The plan, on which their proceedings are 
formed, extends to them all. From an incident, of no 
very uncommon or atrocious nature, which happened in 
one colony, in one town in that colony, and in which only 
a few of the inhabitants of that town took a part, an occa- 
sion has been taken by those, who probably intended it, 
and Vho certainly prepared the way for it, to impose upon 
that colony, and to lay a foundation and a precedent for 
imposing upon all the rest, a system of statutes, arbitrary, 
unconstitutional, oppressive, in every view and in every 
degree subversive of the rights, and inconsistent with even 
the Qame of freemen. 

Were the colonists so blind as not to discern the. con- 
sequences of these measures ? Were they so supinely 
inactive as to take no steps for guarding agamst them ? 
They were not. They ought not to have been so. We 
"saw a breach made in those barriers, which our ancestors, 
British and American, with so much care, with so much 
danger, with so much treasure, and with so much blood, 
})ad erected, cemented, and established for the security of 
their liberties and — ^with filial piety let us mention it — of 
ours : we saw the attack actually begun upon one part: 
ought we to have folded our hands in indolence, to have 
lulled our eyes in slumbers, till the attack was carried on, 
so as to become irresistible, in eveiy part i Sir, I presume 
to think not. We were roused ; we were alarmed, as we 
had reason to be. But still our measures have been such 
as the spirit of liberty and of loyalty directed ; not such 
as a spirit of sedition or of disaffection would pursue. 
Our counsels have been 4;onducted without rashness uxxf 



CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA. 255 

■ 

faction r our I'esolutions have been taken withoitt phrensjr 
or fury. 

That the sentiments ^of eveiy individual concerning: 
that important object, his liberty, might be known and 
l*egarded, meetings have been held, and delibeiations 
carried on in every particular district. That the senti* 
ments of all those individuals might gradually and regu^ 
larly be collected into a single point, and th^ conduct of 
each inspired and directed by the result of the whole 
united, county committees — ^provincial conventions—^ 
continental congress have been appointed, have met and 
resolved. By this means, a chain — ^mpre inestimable^ 
and, while the necessity for it continues, we hope, raor^ 
indissoluble than one of gold — ^a chain of freedom ha& 
, been formed, of which every individual in these icoldiifes^ 
who is willing to preserve tjie greatest of human blessings^ 

his liberty, has the pleasure of beholding himself a link. 

/ 

Are these measures, sir, the brats of disloyalty, of 
disaffection ? There are miscreants among us— -wasps thki 
suck poison fro^ the most salubrious flowers — ^who tell ui 
they are. They tell us that' all those assemblies are un- 
lawful, and unauthorized by our constitutions ; and that 
all their deliberations and resolutions are so many trans* 
gressions of the duty of subjects. The utmost msQice 
brooding over the utmost baseness, and nothing but ^uch 
a hated commixture, must have hatched this calumny. 
Do not th6se men know — ^would they have others not to 
know—- that ' it was impossible for the inhabitants of the 
same province, and for the legislatures of the different 
provinces, to communicate their sentiments to one an* 
other in the modes appointed for such purposes, by their 
v^iflerent constitutions \ Do not they know-^-would thej^ 



256 BfXZCH bELIVERED INf THE ^ 

have others not to know — ^that all this was rendered inv 
possible by those very persons, who now, or whose 
minions now, urge this objection against us ? Do not they 
know— would they have others not to know — ^that the 
different assemblies, who could be dissolved by the go- 
vemours, were, in consequence of ministerial mandates, 
dissolved by them, whenever they attempted to turn their 
attention to the greatest objects, which, as guardians of 
the liberty of their constituents, could be presented to 
their view ? The arch enemy of the human race torments 
them only for those actions, to which he has tempted, but 
to which he has not necessarily obliged them. Those 
men refine even upon infernal malice : they accuse, they 
thr aten us (superlative impudencp!) for taking those 
very steps, which we were laid under the disagreeable 
necessity of taking by themselves, or by those in whose 
hateful service 'they are enlisted* But let them know, 
that our counsels, our deliberations, our resolutions, if not 
authorized by the forms, because that was rendered im- 
possible by our enemies, are nevertheless authorized by 
that which weighs much more in the scale of reason — by 
the spirit of our constitutions. Was the convention of 
the barons at Running Meade, where the granny of John 
was checked, and magna charta was signed, authorized by 
the forms of the constitution ? Was the convention par- 
liament, that recalled Charles the second, and restored 
the monarchy, authorized by the forms of the constitu- 
tion F Was the convention of lords and commons, that 
placed King William on the throne, and secured the 
monarchy and liberty likewise, ajithorized by the forms 
of the constitution ? I cannot conceal my emotions of 
pleasure, whe;i I observe, that the objections of our ad« 
yersaries cannot be urged against us,Jbut in common with 
those venerable assemblies, whose proceedings fornied 
such an accession to ^ntish Uberty wd British renown. 



4 

I 



i 



COKVEHTIOH OF f ENNSYLVANIA. 



257 



The resolutions entered into, and the recommenda- 
ttons given, by the continental congress, have stamped, 
in the plainest characters, the genuine and enlightened 
spirit of liberty upon the conduct observed, and the mea* 
sores pur^ued^ in consequence of them. As the invasions 
of our rights have become more and more formidably 
our ojq^^osltioB to them has increased in firmness and 
Yigoor, in a just, and in no more than a just, proportion* ' 
We IriUiidt import goods from Great Britain or Ireland^ 
iaa little time we will suspend our exportations ta 
fbesa : and, if the same illiberal and destructive system 
ollxdicy be sttfl carried on against us, in a little time 
more we will not consum^e their manufactures. In that 
colony where the-^attacks have been most open, immedi- 
ate, and direct, some farther steps have been taken, and 
those steps have met with the deserved approbation of 
the other {Provinces. 



Is this^ scheme of conduct allied to rebellion ^ Can 
any symptoms of disloyalty to his majesty, of disincli. 
nation to hn illustrious family, or of disregard to his 
authority be traced in it? Those, who would blend, and 
whose crimes have made it necessary for them to blend| 
die tyrannick acts of administration with the lawful mea- 
sures of government, and to veil every flagitious prc^ce- 
dure of the ministry under the venerable mantle of 
majesty, pretend to discover, and employ their emissa^ 
rifes to publish thejretendcd discovery of such symptoms. 
We are not, however, to be imposed' uppn by such shal- 
low artifices. We know, that we have not violated the 
laws or the constitution ; and that, therefore, we are safe 
atf long a»the laws retain their force and the constitution 
tUirtgour; and that, whatever our demeanour be, w« 

TO&«axr« il 



\ 



25S SPEECH DELIVERED IM rSE 

cannot be safe much longer. But another object demamlir 
our attention. 

We behold — ^sir, with the deepest anguish we behold. 
-— «that our opposition has not been as effectual as it has 
been constitutional. The hearts of our oppressors have 
not relented : our complaints have not been heard : oor 
grievances have not been redressed: our rights are 
still invaded : and have we no cause to dread^ that tRe 
invasions of them will be enforced in a manner, against 
^hich all reason and argument, and all opposition of 
every peaceful kind, will be vain i Oiir opposition ha» 
hitherto increased with our oppression : shall it^ in tlic 
most desperate of all contingencies, observe the same 
proportion ? 



Let us pause, sir, before we give an answer to^ 
question : the fate of us ; the fate of millions now alive ; 
the fate of millions yet unborn depends upon the answers- 
Let it be the result of calmness and of intrepidity : let 
it be dictated by the principles of lo3ralty, and the prtnct^ 
pies of liberty. Let it be such, as never, in the worst 
events, to give us reason to reproach ourselves, or others 
reason to reproach us for having done too much or too 
litrfc. 

Perhaps the following resolution may be found not 
altogether unbefitting our present situation. With the 
greatest deference I submit it to the mature' consideratioa 
of this assembly. 

^* That the act of the; British parliament for altering the 
charter and constitution of the colony of Mjassachusaetis 
Say, and those *^ for the impartial administrataoo of jui-- 



C^N^SNTXOM OF PENNSYLVANIA. 259 

'tdi^-' in^that colany^ for shutting the port of Boston, 
»iand for quartering soldiers on the inhabitants of thet 
colonies, are unconstitutional and void; and can confer 
no authority upon those who act under colour of them. 
I^at the crown cannot, by its prerogative, alter the charr 
t^r.or constitution of . that colony : that all attempts to \y^ 

silter th|i^ ssMMd chfoter or constitution, unless by the 
f^uthority of the legislature of that cdoiiy, are naanifest 
quotations of the rights of that coloi^y, and ttl^gal : that 
aU force employed to tarry such unjust and illegal 
attempts into execution is force without authmty : that 
U is the right of British subjects to resist such force:' 
titot.this right is founded bodi upon- the letter and the 
spirit of tfaie British constitutioiu'- 

To prove, at this time, that those acts are unconsti* 
tutional and void is, I apprehend, altogether unnecessary. 
The doctrine has been proved fully, on other occasions^ 
asd hi^ received the concurring assent of Qritish Ame- 
rica. It rests upon plain and indubitable truths. We ' 
do not send members to the British parliament; we have 
parliaments (it is immaterisd.what name they go by) of 
our owa. 

That a void act can confer no authority upon those, 
who proceed under colour of it, is a selfevident propo* 
aition. 

' JBclbre I proceed to. the other clauses, I think it 
useful to recur to some of the fundamental maxims oflihe 
British constitution ; upon which, as upon a rock, our 
wise ancestors erected that stable fabrick, against which 
the gates of hell have not hitherto prevailed* Those 
maximar I shall apply fairly, and, I flatter myself, satis« 



factorlly to evitice eviery parucolar contained - ki like 
reftolutioa. 



The government of Britain^ str^ wftfi never ft& 
tituy government : our ancestors -were never mco^itde^ 
ntte enough to trust those ri^ts, which God aadnature- 
had given them, umseservedly into die bands efthtar 
princes* However di&cuk it maybe; tn^ther slaiea^ 
to prove aa original contract sabsisting in any -oth^ 
iianner, and oil any other conditions^ tbaitare noHira^r 
and necessarily implied in the vevy idea of the- fort 
institution of a state ; it is die easiest thing imaginafale^ 
since ^the revolutioti' of 1688^ to prove it in our coorii* 
tution, and to ascertain some jof tiie material artides, jnf 
which it consists. It has been often appealed to : it has 
been often broken, at least on oaei part: it has,be€^ often 
renewed : it has been often confirmed : it still subsists 
ia its full force : ^^ it binds the kmg as much as the 
meanest subject*'' ^ The measures of his power^ and the 
limits, beyond which he cannot extend it, are circsM^ 
scribed and regulated by the same authority, and widi 
die same precision, as die measuves of the siibjee&'ii 
obedience, and the limits, beyond which he is under no 
obligation to practise it, are fixed and ascertained. 
Libeity is, by. the constitution, of equal stability, of 
eifual antiquity, and of equal authority with pn»t»gap 
tive. The duties of the king and those of the sabject 
are plainly reciprocal : they can be violated on neither 
sidC) unlesc^ they be performed en the o(hei>> l%e law 

m BtiL Pat Kioc. 123. 

b BoL Tracts. 293. The compact between the king and pecf^ 
Unrntnal, and the parties are mutoally booad. 11 Pari Ddb.4^. 
<14. Chester«dd.) 



w^e'ieofiimoti'9tandard, by which the ejKce^ies of pre« 
Tog^thre as well as the excesses of liberty are to he regu* 
la;(ed and Mformed. 

. > Of this great' compact between the king and his people, 
otie easemiil article ^o be performed on hb part is-^that,' 
m those cases where provision is expressly i^ade and 
littiitatio&s set by the laWs, his government shall be con* 
chieced according to those provisions, &nd restrained 
according to those limiti^ions-'-^hat, in those cases, whidi 
are not expressly provi'ded for by the la#s, it shall be 
eodducted by the best rules of disd-etion, agi*eeably to' 
Ae general spirit of the- laws, and subserviently to thet^ 
ultimate end-^lhe interest and happinesi of his subjects 
«-^hat, ^ita tio tase, itshall be conducted contrary to tht 
expt'essy or to t^e implied -principles of the constitution. 

Thes6 general maxims, which we tnay justly consider 
as fundatnentals of our govemmetit, will, by a plain and 
obvious application of them to the partsof the resolution 
remaining to be proved, demonstrate them to be strictly 
agreeable to the laws and constitution. 

'• -L , - ■ .•'-■•.. 

We can be at no loss in resolving, that'the^king cannot, 
by his prerogative, alter the charter or constitution of the 
c^^nyof M«issachussetts Bay. Upon what principle could 
such an exertionofprerogativebejvistified?'Ottthe acts of 
parliament ? They are already proved to be void. Oti 
the discretionary power which the king has of acting 
where the laws are silent ? That power must be subser* 
vient to the interest and happiness of those, concerning 
whom it operates. But I go farther. Instead of being 
supported by law, or the principles of prerogative, 
ftuoh an alteration is totally and absolutely repugnant to 



^£l^«[ D£X| W£S i)l THE . 

hcitlu . It 19 contraiy to express, iaivu * The chacter ^o^ 
qoDstitutioii we speak of are con^rmf^d byil^jf^ only legis«> 
lative power capable of confirming the«|}\aiMl nc^. other 
power, but that which can ratify) can destroy. If it is 

coi^rary to ex^re^ laif^ the jcoii90i|Mn€e. is .neci^ssfiiyt 
that it is cpntr^y tp the principles of prerogative : ibr> 
prerogative can operate o^y.wh^ the law -is silent« ; 



m' 



; In no view.. can this alteraticm "be justifiisHly or soibucjI. 
^ excused* : It^ cannot <'be. justified or ex^u^ed by t the. 
acts of <pariia]xi4BJit f be^^ause thed:Udiori4;y:4if. pfMrlitMaaen^ 
d^es not extend to. fA : it cannot; be justified or exposed 
iQT^lhe operatioiii of prerogative ; .because this'ia Qone a£ 
the cases, ill which prexogatiy^e caii operate : it cannot 
b^' justified or excused. by the legislative ^utliprity of the 
colpny; because that. authority ney^r has-been, 9ndf .1 
presume, never will be given for any such purpose. 

If I have proceeded hitherto^ a3 I am persuaded I 
Have, upon safe and sure- grojund, I can, with great 
confidence, ^dv^nce a step farljher, and; say, thstf all 
attempts to alter the charter or constitution oC that, colony^ 
unless by the authority of its own legislature^'are viola- 
tions of its rights, and illegal. 

' If those attempts are illegal, must uQt a)l, force, em* 
ployed to carry them into execution, b^ fo^e^employed 
sigainst la.w, apd without authority i The conclusion ie 
unavoidable. 

Have not British subjects, then, a right to resisi 
such force-^force acting without authority--^force em* 
ployed contrary to law — ^force employed to destroy 
the very existence of. law and of lib^ty ? > They 
have, sir, and this right is secured to them both by 



comrEirriON iSp.psKNsTLVANiA. 26^ 

the letter >aBd the spirit of the British constitiitiofl, 
by which the measii^esi and the conditions of their* 
obedience are appointed. The British liberties) sir, and 
the means aiid>tiie right of defending theni, are not th^ 
grants of princes ;. and of what our princes n^ver granted 
they surely caa never deprive us. 

I be|^ leave, here, to mention and to dbviate some 
|>lausible but iU founded objections, that have been, and 
will be, h&ld forth by our adversaries, against the princi- 
ftlea of the resolutibn now before us. It will be observed, , 
that those employed for bringing about the proposed al« 
i^ratioQ in thex charter. and constkiition of the colony of 
JMassacbussettsiBay act by virtue of a commission for 
that purpose ftom hie nmjesty: that all resistance of 
forces conimijasioned by fats majesty, is resistance of his 
^ majesty's- audKH'ityaiid govemosbent, contrar}^ to the duty 
of alle^^ance, and treasonable^ .These objections will be 
. ^iaplayed in their mo»t specious colours : every artifice 
of chicmiery and sophistry will be put in prattice to es^ 
tablish them : law authorities, perhaps, will be quoted 
and tortured to pi^ve thdtn. Those principles of o\ir 
constitution, which were diesigned to preserve and to 
secure the liberty of the people, and, for the sake of that, 
the tranquillity of governipent, will be perverted on this, 
as they :hay€ been on many other occasions, from their 
txfae intention ; and will be made use of for the contrary 
purpo3e of endangering the latter, and destroying the 
former. *. Tl^e names of the most exalted virtues, on one 
hand, and of the most atrocious crimes, on the other^ 
will be employed in direct contradiction to the nature of 
those virtues, ^d of those crimes : and, in this manner,. 
Abse Wjho cannot lopk beyond names, will.be deceived | 
9Sid ihoscy whose aim it ia to deceive by names^, will 






$64 8F£ICH DEtlVXftKD 19 THV' 



have an opportimity of accomplishing it. Bttt, air, tUA 
disguise will not impose upon ua. We will look to 
things as well as to names : and, by domg so, we shaS 
be fuUy satisfied, that all those obfcctions rest upon 
mere verbal sophistry, and have not even the remotest 
alliance with the princifdes <^ reason or oi law» 

In the first place, then, I say, that the persons who 
allege, that those, employed to alter the charter and . 
constitution of Massadmssetts Bay^ act by virtue of a 
commission from his majesty for^thasparpose, spetli 
improperly, and contrary to the troth of the- case* I say;^ 
they act by virtue of no such commission i I say, it is 
impossible they can act by virtue of sudi a coiamiMoa* 
What is called a commi^on either contains paetictdat 
directions for the purpose^mentioned ; or it contains n* 
sttch particular directions. In neither ease can Aob^ 
who act for that purpose, act by virtue of a coamustaom 
la one case, what is odled a commission is void ; it has 
no legal existence ; it can communicate no auliiority* in 
the other case, it extends not to the purpose mendoned. 
The latter point is too plain to foe insisted on-^1 pnyve 
the former. 

** Id rex potest,'* says the law, ** quod de jure potest.^* 
The king's power is a power according to law. His com* 
vmnds, if the authority of Lord Chief Justice flale"^ may 
be depended upon, are under the directive power of die 
law ; and consequently invalid, if untawful. Commis- 

*9.Rtopt 125, 

a 1. Hale. P. C. 43. 41 Vide on this head. 4 Bac. 149, 9. Pari. ^ 
Bkt 16^ iro, 179, 189. Vent. 63, 169. S. Im. SST^ 338, 94a 



mollis, "smys ^my Lord Ceke, ^ ape legal ; »nd are liht die 
kitig^s if^rits ; and no^e are lawful, but stH:h as are allowed 
by the common 'kw, or -warranted by some act o^f par^ 
lidment. 

jLet us examine any commission expressly directing 
those to whpm it is given, to use military force for carry- 
ing into execution the alterations proposed to be made in 
the charter and constitution of Massachussetts Bay, by the 
fbreg'oing maxims and authorities ; and what we have said 
concemtng it;will appear obvibus and conclusive^ It is 
ii0t warranted by any act of parliament ; because^'as baa 
fceen meiltionfed on this, and has been proved on other 
occasions, any such act is void. It isndt warranted, and 
'I^belieine it-will not be pretended that it is warranted, by 
^he commonUaw* -It isnot warranted by the royal prero* 
^thre ; because, as has already been filUy shown, it is dia- 
metrically opposite to the principles *and' the ends of. prero- 
gative. Upon what foundatiQn, then, can it lean and be 
Bup^orted? 'Upon none. Like an enchanted castle, it 
rliMiy* terrify those, whose eyes are affected by the ma^ttk 
'hlBuence of the sorcerers, despotism and slavery : but^o 
^^oi^as the charm is dissolved, and the genuine ra}^ t^f 
libef^and of the constitution dart in upon* us, the formi- 
'1]ii6ile' appearance vanishes, and we discover- that it was 
^e baseless fabrick of a vision, that never had anyre^ 
Existence. 

I have dwelt the longer upon this part of the objections 
i^l^ged.ags^nst^s by our adversaries ; because this^part is 
tlM^.&iibdfttkm' oi^tii theeriuers. We have axMvire«iov^ 

» 

^it;}aiiM)4keyt»Mist ftil«f coarse. ^For ifi^e'force^'actiBg 

« 3. Ins. 16jf. 
YOL. III. Mm 



266 ftFEECH 0£LIVER£D IH THE* 

for the purposes we have menlioned, does not act, ami 
cannot act^ by virtue of any commission from his majesty, 
the consequence is undeniable, that it acts without his 
majesty's authority ; that the resistance of it is no resists 
ance of his majesty's authority; nor incompatible with 
the duties of allegiance. ' 

And now, sir, let me appeal to the impartial tribunal 
of reason and truth — ^let me appeal to every unprejudiced 
and judicious observer of the laws of Britain, and of the 
constitution of the British government — ^let me appeal, I 
say, whether the principles on which I argue, oi^the prin- 
ciples on which alone my arguments can be opposed, arc 
those which ought to be adhered to and acted upon— 
which of them are most consonant to our lawa and lib^- 
ties — ^which of them have the strongest, and are likely to 
have the most effectual, tendency to.establish and secure 
the royal power and dignity. 

Arc we deficient in loyalty to his majesty ? Let our 
conduct convict, for it will fully convict, the insinuation, 
that we are, of falsehood. Our loyalty has always appealed 
in the true form of loyalty— in obeying our sovereign 
according to law -J let those, who would require it in any 
other form, know, that we call the persons who execute 
his commands, when contrary to law, disloyal and tiaitora. 
Are we enemies to the power of the crown I No, sir : 
we are its best friends : this friendship prompts us to 

f RebeOioo being an oppositkn, not to persons, but anthority, 

whichisfiMmded oDly in tkeconsdtatton and laws of the govenimcBt 
those, whoever they be, who bjr Ibrce bieak thtoQ^ andbyferae 

justify the violatianQfthem, are tmly and properly rebels. Pofibad* 
73a 731. notes. 



COWVENTIO» OF ^ENNSTtVANlA. 26f 

wish, that the power of the crown may be firmly estab- 
Kshed on the most solid basis ; but we know« that 
the constitution alone will perpetuate the former, and 
securely uphold the latter. Are our principles irreve- 
retit to majesty ? They are quite the reverse : we astribe 
to it perfection, almost divine. We say, that the king 
can do no wrong : we say, that tp do wrong is the pro- 
perty, not of power, but of weakness. We feel oppres- 
sion ; and will oppose it ; but we know — for our con- 
stitution tells us— that oppression can never spring from 
the throne. We must, therefore, search elsewhere? for 
its source : bur infallible guide will direct us t() it. Our 
coiistitution tells us, that all oppression springs from 
the ministers of the throne* The attributes of perfec- 
tion, ascribed to the king, are, neither by the constitu- 
tion, nor in fact, communicable to his ministers. They 
may do wrong : they have often done wrong : they have 
been often punished for doing wrong. 

Here we may discern the true cause of all the im- 
pudent clamour and xmsupported accusations of the 
ministers and of their minions, that have been raised 
and made against the conduct of the Americans* Those 
ministers and minions are sensible, that the opposition 
is directed, not against his majesty, but against them : 
because they have abused his majesty's confidence, 
brought discredit upon his government, and derogated 
from his justice. They see the publick vengeance col- 
lected in dark clouds around them: their consciences 
tdll them, diat it should be hurled, like a thunder bolt, at 
dieir goilty heads, Appdled with guilt and fear, they 
skulk behind the throne. ^ Is it disrespectful to drag 
diem into publick view, and make a distinction between 
them and his majesty, under whose venerable name 



9M Bn^tcn p%Livt»Bn m- x9e 

tlMtjF cUHiigfy atkenpt to shdler thw crimen f NotbJnS- 
Q(H» m<M:e tS^cimUy contributes to establish his. msijjest^ 
cm the tkrone, and to secure to hinL the affections ot 
his people/ than this distioction. By i^ wc are t^ught^ 
to consider all the blessings of government a& flowing 
from the throne ; and to consider every instance of op^ 
pression as proceeding, which iq trutjx is often^t. ttie^ 
case, from the ministers* 

If, now, it is true, that all force eo^^oyed for the- 
purposes so often mentioned, is force unwarraated by 
any act of parliament ;, unsupported by any principle 
.of the common law ; unauthorized by any commission^ 
from the. crown-*»that, instead of being employed for 
the support of the constitution and his majesty's govem- 
npteat, it must be employed for the support of oppression 
and ministerial tyranny — if sU this is true — and I flatter 
myself it appears to be |rue-*<an any one hesita^te^ to 
say, that to resist such force is .awful : and that both 
the letter and the spirit of the British constitution justify* 
such resistance ? 

Resistance, both by the letier aad the spirit of th^ 
British constitution, may b^ cajTri^d fe^rther, wheo ip^ 
eessity requires it, than I h»ve carried it. , Mi^y exAlxH 
pies ia the English history might be addu^e4, aPi4 
«Kiny authorities of the greatest weight might be brou^bt^ 
to show, th^t when the king, forgettipg his <:h^ract(^r «b4 
his dignity, has stepped forth, and openly avowed aii4 
talcen a part in such iniquit^s ^oj»4.u^ s^ km hee» d^ 
seized ; in such cascs^ indeed, the itistinctioii abovQ 
ipnentioned, wisely made 1^ the constitution for the s^ 
curity of the «rown, tmM imh ho applied ; hecause thi 



GONVENTIOK OF PENNSYLVANIA. 



269 



crown had unconstitutionally rendered the application of 
it impossible. What has been the consequence f The 
distinction between him and his ministers has been lost: 
but they have not been raised to his situation : he has 
sunk to theirs. 



/ . 



SPEECH 



DELIVERED ON 3Gth NOVEMBER, IfST, 



IN THE 



CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA, 



AiSl^MBLED TO TAKE INTO CONSIDEBATIOW THE GONSTITV* 
tXOH V&AMSP, It THE FEDERAL GONTSMTIOV, FOR THE 

XTNITED STATES. 



SPEECH IN CONVENTION, 



ON 26th NOVEMBER, 17B7. 



X H£ S]p8tein proposed, by the late convention, for the 
government of the United States, is now before you. Of 
tjiat convention I had the honour to be a member. As I 
am the only member df that body who have the honour 
to be also a member of this, it may be expected that I 
should prepare the way for the deliberations of this assem- 
bly, by unfolding the difficulties which the late convention 
were obliged to encounter ; by pointing out the end which 
they proposed to accomplish ; and by tracing the general 
principles which they have adopted for the accomplish- 
ment of. that end. 

4 

To form a good system of government for a single city 
or state, Jiov/ever limited as to territory, or inconsiderable 
as to numbers, has been thought ^to require the s^trongest 
efforts of human genius. With what conscious diffidence, 

TOL. III. N^n 



i74i SPEECH DELIVERED IN THE 

then, must the members of the convention have revolved 
in their minds the immense undertaking which was before 
them.« Their views could not be confined to a small or 
a single community, but were expanded to a great number 
of states ; several of which contain an extent of territoiy, 
and resources of population, equal to those of some of 
the most respectable kingdoms on the other side of the 
Atlantkk. Nor were even these the only.. objects to be 
comprehended within their deliberations. Numerous 
states yet unformed, myriads of the human race, who will 
inhabit regions hitherto uncultivated, were to be affected 
by the result of their proceedings. If was necessary, 
therefore, to form their calculations on a scale commen- 
surate to a large portion of the globe. 

For my own part, I have been often lost in astonish- 
ment at the vastness of the prospect before us. To open 
the navigation of a single river was lately thought, in 
£urope, an enterprise adequate to imperial glory. But 
could the commercial scenes of the Scheldt be compared 
with those that, under a goo4 government, will be exhi- 
bited on the Hudson, the Delaware, the Potowmack, and 
the numerous other rivers, that water and are intended to 
enrich the dominions of the United States? 

The difficulty of the business was equal to its magni- 
'tude. No small sh^e of wisdom and address is requisite 
to combine and reconcile the jarring interests, that pre- 
vail, or seem to prevail, in a single community. The 
United States contain already thirteen governments mu- 
tually independent. Those governments present to the 
Atlantick a front of fifteen hundred miles in extent. 
Their soil, their climates, their productions, their dimen- 
sions, their numbers are different. In many instances a 



CO^VENflON OF PENNSYLVANIA. 275 

difference and^even an opposition subsists among their 
interests ; and a difference and even an opposition is ima- 
gined to subsist in many more. An apparent interest 
produces the same attachment as a real one ; and is often 
pursued with no less 'perseverance and vigour. When 
all these circumstances are seen and attentively consider- 
ed, will any inember of this honourable body be surprised, 
that such a diversity of things produced a proportioned 
diversity of sentiment? will he be surprised that such a 
diversity of sentiment rendered a spirit of mutual for- 
bearance and conciliation' indispensably necessary p the 
success of the great work ? and will he be surprised that 
mutual concessions and sacrifices were the consequences 
of mutual forbearance and conciliation ? When the springs 
of opposition were so numerous arid strong, and poured 
forth their waters in courses so varying, need we be sur- 
prised that the stream formed by their conjunction was 
impelled in a direction somewhat different from that, 
which each of them would have taken separately ? 

I have reason to think that a difficulty arose in the 
minds of some members of the convention from another 
consid^ratioh-^their ideas of the temper and dispo&ition 
of t!he people, for whom the constitution is proposed.; 
The citizens of the United States, however different in 
some other respects, are well known to agree in one 
strongly marked feature of their character — a warm and 
keen sense of freedom and independence. This sense has 
been heightened by the glorious result of their late strug- 
gle iigainst all the efforts of one of the most powerful na- 
tions of £urope. It was apprehended, I believe, by some, 
that a people so high spirited would ill brook the re- 
straints of an efficient government. I confess that thi» 
consideration did not influence my conduct. I'knew my 



^ ' 



276 SPSSCH DELIVERED IN TBE 

constituents to be high spirited ; but I knew them also ta 
possess sound sense. ' I .knew that^ in the event, they 
would be (>est pleased \7ith that systeoi of government, 
which would best promote their freedom and happiness. 
J, have often revolved this subject in my mtnd» I have 
supposed one of my constituents to ask me, why I gave 
such a vote on a particular question? I have always ' 
thought it w;puld be a satis;factory answer to say— »4»scause 
I judged, upon the best consideration I could give^ theit 
such a vote was right. I have thought that it would be 
but a very poor compliment to my constituents to say, 
thatt, in my (Opinion, sucha vote would have been proper^ 
but that I supposed a contrary one would be mor-e agree* 
able to those who sent me to the convention* I could not, 
even in idea, expose myself to such a retort as, upon the 
last answer, might have been justly made to me* Pray« 
sir, what reasons have you for supposing th^ a right 
vote would displease your constituents i Is this the proper 
return for the high confidefice they have placed in yo^l 
If they have given cause for such a surmise, it was by 
choosing a representative, who could entertain sach an 
opinion of them. I was under no apprehension, that the 
good people of this state would behold with displeasure 
the brightness of the rays of delegated power^ when it 
<Hily proved the superiour splendour of the lunkinary, of 
which those rays were only the reflection* 

A very important difficulty arose from comparing the 
extent of the country to be governed, with the kind of 
government which it would be proper to establish in it* 
It has been an opinion, countenanced by high dn^^rkyf 
^^ that the natural property of small sta^s isy ta be go* 
vemed as a repubUck ; of middling ones$ to be subject^ 
a monarch ; and of Jbrge enoyires, to be swayed by a dcs* 



CONVENTION OF PENNSTLVANIA. 2// 

potkk prince ; and that the consequence is^ that, in order 
to preserve the principles of the established government^ 
the state must be supported in the extent it has acquired,; 
and that the spirit of the state will alter in proportion ad 
it extends or contracts its limits."^ This opinion seems 
to be supported, rather than contradicted, by th^ history 
* of th6 governments in the old world* Here then the diiH« 
eulty appeared in full vievf. On one hand, the United 
States contain an immense extent of territory, and, ac^ 
cording to the foregoing opinion, a despotick government 
is best adapted to that extent* On the other hand, it was 
well known, that, however the citizens of the United 
States might, with pleasure, submit to the legitimsLte re* 
straints of a republican constitution, they would reject^ 
with indignation, the fetters of despotism. What them 
was to be done i The idea of a confederate republick pre* 
dented itself. This kind of constitution has been thought 
to have .^^ all the internal advantages of a republican, to* 
gether with the externid force of a monarchicalr govern* 
ment«"^ Its description id, ^^a convention, by which 
several states agree to become members of a larger one^ 
which they intend to est£dblish« It is a kind of assemblage 
of societies, that constitute a new one, capable of increas<> 
i^g ^7 means of farther association." ^ The expanding 
quality of such a government is peculiarly fitted for the 
United States, the greatest part of whose territory is yet 
uncultivated. 

But while this form of government enabled usi to sur^ 
mount the difficulty last nptentioned, it conducted us to 
aiiothe7| of which I am now to take notice. It left vm 

^ Mont Sp. L. b. 8. e. :^0. ^ Id. b, 9. c.l. 1. Paley, 199^302. 
<^ Moiit.Sp.L. b. 9.^ 1. 



Q7B SPEECH BELIVEREDIN THE 

almost without precedent or guide ; and consequently^^ 
without the benefit of that insfrugtion, which, in many 
cases, jjasy be derived from the constitution, and his- 
tory, and experience of other nations. Several associa- 
tions have frequently been called by the name of confe- 
derate states, which have not, in propriety of language^ 
deserved it. The Swiis cantons are connected only 
by alliances. The United Netherlands are indeed an 
assemblage of societies ; but this assemblag^e constitutes 
no new one; and, therefore, it does not correspond 
with the full definition of a confederate republick. 
The Germanick body is composed of such dispropor- 
tioned and discordant materials^ and its structure is so 
intricate and complex, that little useful' knowledge can 
be drawn from it. Ancient History discloses, and barely 
discloses to our view, sonie confederate republicks — 
the Achaean league, the Lycian confederacy, and the 
Amphyctionick council. But the facts recorded con- 
cerning their constitutions are 60 few and general, and 
their histories are so unmarked and defective, that no 
satisfactory information can be collected from them 
concerning many particular circumstances, from an 
accurate discernment and comparison of which alone^ 
legitimate and practical inferences can be made from 
one constitution to another. Besides, tl)e situation and 
dimensions of those^ confederacies^ aud the state of soci- 
ety, manners, and habits in them, were so different from 
those of the United States, that th^ most correct 
descriptions could have supplied but a very small fund 
of applicable remark. Thus, m ibrming this system, 
we were deprived of many advantages, which the his- 
tory and experience of other agea ^d other countries: 
would, in other cases, Jiave afforded us. 



CONVENTIOK OF PENKBYIVANIA. 



ard 



Permit me to add, in this place, that the science even 
of government itself seems yet to be almost in its state 
of infancy* Governments, in general, have been the result 
of force, of fraud, and of accident. After a period of 
six thousand years has elapsed since the creation, the 
United States exhibit to the World the first instance, as 
far as we can learn, of a nation, unattacked hf external 
force, unconyulsed by domestick insurrections, assem- 
bling voluntarily, deliberating fully, and decidmg calmly, 
concen^ing that system of government, under which 
they would wish that they and their posterity should live» 
The ancients, so enlightened on other subjects, were 
very uninformed with regard to this. They seem scarcely 
to have had any idea of any other kinds of governments, 
than the three simple forms designated by the epithets, 
monarchical, aristocratical, and democraticaL I know 
that much and pleasing ingenuity has been exerted, in 
modern tifnes, in drawing entertaining parallels between 
some of the aiicient constitutions and some of the mixed 
governments that have since existed in Europe. But I 
much suspect that, on' strict examination, the instances 
of resemblance will be found to be few and weak ; to 
be suggested by the improvements, which, in subsequent 
ages, have been made in government, and not to be 
drawn immediately from the ancient. constitutions them- 
selves, as they were intended and understood by those 
who framed them. To illustrate this, a similar obser- 
vation may be made on another subject. Admiring 
criticks have fancied, that they have discovered in their 
favourite Homer the seeds of all the improvements in 
'philosophy, and in the sciences, made since his time. 
What induces me to be of this opinion is, that Tacitus^ 
the profound politician Tacftus, who lived towards the 
latter end of those ages which are now denominated 



-^ 1 



SSO 8I»EEGH DELIVERED IN THft 

aacieat, w^ uijdoubtedly had studied the cotistitutions 
of all the states and kingdoms known before and in his 
time, and who certTainly was qualified, in au uncom*^ 
mon degree, for understanding the full force and opera- 
tion of each of thetn, considers, after sdl he had known 
and read^ a mixed government, composed of the diree 
aimple forms, as a thing rather to be wished than expect- 
ed: and he thinks, that if stich a government could even 
Jbe instituted, its duration could not be loiig; i One liking 
IB very certain, thkt the doctrine of representation in 
government was altogether unknown to the ancients. 
Now the knowledge and practice of this doctrine is, in 
my opinion, essential to every system, that can possess 
jtfae qualities of freedom, wisdom, and energy. 

It is worthy of remark, and the remark may, perhaps, 
excite some surprise, that representation of the people 
is. not, even at this day, the sole principle of any govern- 
ment in Europe. , Great Britain boasts, and ^he may 
well boast, of the improvement she has made in poli- 
ticks, by the admission of representation: for the 
improvement is important a^ far as it goes ; but it by 
no means goes far enough. Is the executive power of 
Great Britain founded on representation? This is not 
]>i:etended. Before the revolution, many of the kings 
claimed to reign by divine right, and others by heredi- 
tary right ; and even at the revolution, nothing farther 
waseffected or attempted, than the recognition of certain 
parts of an original Contract,^ supposed at some remote 
period to have been made between the king and the 
people. A contract seems to exclude, rather than to 
imply, delegated power. The judges of Great Britain 

* l.BLCom.233. 



cowvEHnO!r ojr pjennsylvania. 281 



^' 



are ^appointed by the crown. The judicial authority, 
therefore, does not depend upon representation, even 
in its most remote degree. Does representation prevail 
in the legislative department of the British government? 
flven here it does not predominate ; though it may 
serve as a check* The legislatui-e consists of three 
branches, the king, the lords, and the commons* Of 
these, only the latter are supposed by the constitution 
to represent the authority of the people. This short 
analysis clearly shows, to what a narrow corner of the 
British constitution the principle of representation is 
confined. I believe it does not extend farther, if so far, . 
in any other govemmenx in Europe. For the American 
States were reserved the glory and the happiness of 
diffusing this vital principle ^hrough all the constituent 
parts of government. Representation is the chain of 
communication between the people, and those to whom 
they hgj^e committed the exercise of the powers of 
government. This chain may consist of one or more 
links ; but in all cases it should be sufficiently strong and 
discei»iible. 

To be left without guide or precedent was not the 
only difficulty^ in which the convention were involved, 
by proposing to their constituents a plan of a confederate 
republick. They found themselves embarrassed with 
another of peculiar delicacy and importance ; I mean 
that of drawing a proper line between the national go- 
vernment and the governments of the several states. It 
was easy to discover a proper and satisfactory principle 
~ on the subject* - Whatever object of government is con- 
fined in its, operation and effects within the bounds of a 
particular state, should be considered as belonging to 
the gpyern^ikentjof that state ; whatever object of govern 

VOL. III. o o 



2Bt I srCECB DELIVERED IN THE 

ment extends in its operation or effects beyond the bounds 
of a particular state, should be considered as belonging 
to the government of the United States. But though 
this principle be sound and satisfactory, its application 
to particular cases would be accompanied with much 
difficulty ; because, in its application, room must be al- 
lowed for great discretionary latitude of construction of 
the principle. In order to lessen or remove the diA- 
culty arising from discretionary construction on this sub- 
ject, an enumeration of particular instances, in which 
the application of the principle ought to take place, has 
been attempted with much industry and care. It is only 
in mathematical science, that a line can be described 
with mathematical precision. But I flatter myself that, 
upon the strictest investigation, the enumeration will be 
found to be safe and unexceptionable ; and accurate too, 
in as great a degree as accuracy can be expected in a 
subject of this nature. Particulars under this head will 
be more properly explained, when we descend to the 
minute view of the enumeration which is made in the 
proposed constitution. 

After all, it will be necessary, that, on a subject so 
peculiarly delicate as this, much prudence, much candour, 
much moderation, and much liberality should be exer- 
eised and displayed, both by the federal government and 
by the governments of the several states* It is to be 
hoped, that those virtues in government will be exercised 
and displayed, when we consider, that the powers of the 
federal government and those of the state governments 
are drawn from sources equally pure. If a difference 
can be discovered between them, it is in favour of the 
federal government ; because that government is founded 
on a representation of die whole union ; whereas die 



CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA. 283 

» 

govern^ient of any particular state is founded only on the 
representation of a part, inconsiderable when compared 
^ith the whole. Is it not more reasonable to suppose, 
that the counsels of the whole will embrace the interest 
of every part, than that the counsels of any part will 

embrace the interests of the whole. ^ 

1 

I intend not, sir, by this description of the dUEcuItres 
■with which the convention were surrounded, to mag^^ 
nify their skill or their merit in surmounting them, or to 
insinuate that a^y predicament, in which the convention 
stood, should prevent the closest and most cautious scru- 
tiny into the performance, which they have eithibited to 
their constituents and to the world* My intention i($ of 
"iar other and higher aim — to evince by the conflicts and 
.difficulties which must arise from the many and powerful 
causes which I have enumerated, that it is hopeless and 
impracticable to form a constitution, which will, in every 
part, be acceptable to every citizen, or even to every 
government in the United States ; and that all whicli 
can be expected is, to form such a constitution as, upon 
the whole, is the best that can possibly be obtained. 
Man and perfection ! — a state and perfection ! — an as- 
semblage of states and perfection ! Can we reasonably 
expect, however ardently we may wish, to behold the 
glorious union i 

I can well recollect, though I believe I cannot convey 
to others, the impression, which, on many occasions, 
was made by the difficulties which surrounded and pressed 
the convention. The great undertaking, at some times, 
seemed to be at a stand ; at other times, its motions 
seemed to be retrograde. At the conclusion, however, 



28^ ilPEECH D^LIVEllEt> IN THE 

of our work, many of the members expressed their 
astonishment at the success with which it terminated. 

Having enumerated some of the difBculties which the 
convention were obliged to encounter in the coarse of 
their proceedings, I shall next point out the end which 
they proposed to accomplish. Our wants, our talents, 
•our affections, our passions, all tell us that we were made 
-for a state of society. But a state of society could not 
be supported long or happily without some civil restraint. 
It is true that, in a state of nature, any one individual 
may act uncontrolled by others i but it is equallj^ ti'ue^ 
that, in such a state, every other ind^vid-ual may act un- 
controlled by him. Amidst this universal independence, 
the dissensions and animosities between interfering mem? 
bers of the society would be numerous and ungovernable* 
The consequence would be, that each member, in such 
a natural st^te, would enjoy less liberty, and suffer more 
interruption, than he would in a regulated society. Hence 
the universal introduction of governments of some kind 
or other into the social state. The liberty of every mem- . 
b^r is increased by th|8 introduction^ for each gains 
more by the limitation of the freedom of every other 
member, than he loses bv the limitation of his own* 
The result is, that civil government is necessary to 
the perfection and happiness of man. In forinin^ 
this government, and carrying it into execution, it is 
essential that the interest and authority of the whole 
community should be binding on every part of ijU 

• 

The foregoing principles and conclusions are genersdfy 
admitted to be just and sound with regard to the nature 
and formation o£ single governments, and the duty of 
submission to them. In some cases they will apply, 
with much propriety and force, to states already formed* 



* 



The advantages and neoes^hy ef dbrJ^lrgoYerd&fxieai afnong* 
mdmcktal^ in society are not grfeftterlbr 4tro9ger. tli^^ 
in some situarions and' circumstances,, ^re tbe^iadvftntdge& 
Gihd necessity of a fecleral government aihong states. A 
natural and a(v(eryimipoptaittt question now presents it. 
'^elf. Is siiel^^he'8ituM:ioii«^r^e such the circum^^miceii 
of jthe United States? A proper aBfiwettQthUqu.esr 
tibn will unfoTW serine very interesting' truths. , 



. •♦. 



The United States may 'adopt at^y one of four dilFereDt 

systems . They may becto Aie consolidated into oiie govern- 

mentv in which the separate existence of the states shaH 

be entirely absorbed. They may reject any plan* of union 

or association, and act ds separate and unconnected statesv 

. They inay fotm two ^r 'more confederacies^ They xavf 

ui^ite in. one federal fepublick. Which of these tyftt^mt 

'pught to have been proposed by tlie ccwiventioa? — T<J 

support Mrith ti^igour^ a single government over the whole 

extent of the United States, would demand a system qf 

the most unqualified and the niost unremitted despotism* 

Such a nuiiiber of separate states, contiguous in situation, 

unconnefcted and disunited in government, would be, at 

on^ time, the prey of foreign force,iforeign inAueQce, and 

foreign intrigue ; at another, the victini of mutual rage, 

rancour, and revenge. Neither of these systems found 

advocates in the late convention : I presun^ tliey will n#t 

find advocates in this. .Would it be proper to diyide the 

United States into two or more confederacies? It will 

not be unadvisable to take a more minute survey of this 

subject. Some aspects, under which it may be viewed, 

are far from being, at first &ight, uninviting. Two or more 

confederacies would be .'each more comfiact and more 

manageable, than a single one extenditig over the same 

territory. , By dividing the United Stat^^ into two or 



286 gVlECH DKLIV£RXD IN THE 

more confederacies, the great oolUsioa of interests^ appa- 
rently or really different and contrary, in the whole ext^iat 
of their dominion, would be broken, and in a great measore 
disappear in the several parts. But these advantages, 
which are discovered from c<»rtain points of view, are 
greatly overbalanced by in^onveoiences that will appear 
on a more accurate examination* . Animosities, and per- 
haps wars, would arise from asaigoing the extent, the 
limits, and the rights of the different confederacies. The 
expenses of governing would be. multiplied by the num- 
ber of federal governments. The danger resulting fraoi 
foreign influence and mutual dissensions would not, per- 
liaps, be less great and alarming in the instance of different 
confederacies, than in the instance of different though 
more numerous unassociated states. Theae observatiomes, 
and many odiers that might be made <m the subject, will 
be sufficient to evince, that a division of the United j^tatea 
into a number of separate confederacies would- probabljr 
be an unsatisfactory and an unsuccessful e^eriment. The 
remaining systeih which tibe American States may adopt 
is, a union of them un^erone confederate republick. It 
will not be necessary to em{doy much time or many ai;gu- 
ments to show, that this is the most eligible system that 
can be proposed. By adof^ing this system, the vigour 
and decision of a wide spreading monarchy may be joined 
to the freedom and beneficence of a contracted republick* 
The extent of territory, the diversity of climate and soil, 
the number, and greatness, and connexion of lakes and 
rivers, with which the United States are intersected and 
"^ ^ dmost surrounded, all indicate an enlarged govemmeiU 

to be fit and advantageous for them. The principles and 
dispositions of their citizens indicate, that in this govern* 
ment liberty^ shall reign triumphant. Such indeed have 
been the general opii^ons and wishes entertained abce 



CONT£imoi9 or MMXSTLrAlllA* S87 

the era of our independence. If those opinionis <End wishes 
are as well founded as they have been general, the late 
convention were justified in proposing to their constituents 
one confederate republick, as the best system of a national 
government for the United States. 

In forming this system, it was proper to give tninute 
attention to the interest of all the parts \ but there was a 
duty of still higher import-^o feel and to show a predo* 
minating regardto the superiour interests of the whole. 
If this great principle had not prevailed, the plan before 
us would never have mftde its appearance. The same, 
principle that was so qecessary in forming it, is equally 
necessary in our deliberations, whether we should reject 
or ratify it. 

I make these observations with a design to prove and 
illustrate this great and important truth — ^that in our deci- 
sions on, the work of the late convention, we should not 
limit our views and regards to the state of Pennsylvania. 
The aim of the convention was, to form a system of good 
and efficient government on the more extensive scale of 
the United States. In this, as in every other instance, 
the work should be judged with the same spirit with which 
it was performed. A principle of duty as well as of can- 
dour'demands this. 

We have remarked, that civil government is necessary 
to the perfection of society : we now remark, that civil 
liberty is necessary to the perfectioii of civil government* 
Civil liberty is natural liberty itself, devested only of that 
part, which, placed in the government, produces more 
good and happiness to the community, than if it had re- 
mained in the individual. Hence it follows, that civil 



S88' . -SPEIKIH B£L¥V|;^£f>>4N THE 

liberty, while it reigns ia part of naturj^l liberty, retaini 
the free and generous exercise of all the human Acuities, 
80 far as it is compatible with the publick welfare. 

In considering and developing the l^ature and end of 
the system before us, it is necessary to mention another 
kind of Uberty, ?i^hich haa i^ot y^t^ as far as I know, re- 
ceived a aame. I shall distinguish -it by the appellation 
o(federal\ liberty* When a single governments is insti* 
tttted, the individuals of which it i^ composed sUrrendco: 
to It a part of ^eir natural independence, which theyjb^ 
fore enjoyed as men. When a confederate republickis 
instituted, the communities of wlych it is composed sur-- 
render to it a part of their political independence, which 
they before enjoyed as states. The principles which 
directed, in the former case, what part of the natural 
liberty of the man ought to be given up, and what part 
^ught to be retained, will giv« similar directions in the 
latter case* The states should, resign to the national 
.government that part, and that j)art only, of their political 
liberty, which, placed in that government, will produce 
anai)e good to the whole, th^n if it had remained in the 
several states* While they resign this part of their poli- 
tical liberty, they retain the firee and generous exercise of 
4dl their other faculties as states, so far as it is compa- 
tible with the welfare of the general and superintending^ 
tionfederacy. ^ 

Since states as well as citizens are represented in^c 
•constitution before us, and form the objects on which that 
constitution is proposed to operate, it was necessary to 
notice and define federal as well as civil liberty. 

These general refiectitHis bs^xe been made in order to 
introduce, with more proprie^ and advantage, a practical 



COWVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA. 289 

illustration of the end proposed to be accomplished by the 
late convention. 

It has been too well known — it has been too severely 
felt — that the present confederation is inadequate to the 
government and to the exigencies of tl^e United States. 
The great struggle for liberty in this country, should it 
be unsuccessful, will probably be the last one which she 
will have for her. existence and prosperity, in any part of 
the globe. And it must be confessed, that this struggle 
has, in some of the stages of its progress, been attended 
with symptoms that foreboded no fortunate issue. To tjne 
iron hand of tyranny, which was lifted up against her, she 
manifested, indeed, an intrepid superiority. She broke 
in pieces the fetters which were forged for her, and showed 
that she was unassailable by force. But she was environed 
by dangers of another kind, and springing from a very 
different spurce. While she kept her eye steadily fixed 
on the efforts of oppression, licentiousness was secredy 
undermining the rock on which she stood. 

Need I call to your remembrance the contrasted 
scenes, of which we have been witnesses? On the glorious 
conclusion of our. conflict with Britain, what high expec- 
tations were formed concerning us by others ! What high 
expectations did w^ form concerning ourselves ! Have 
those expectations been realized ? No. What has been 
the cause ? Did our citizens lose their perseverance and 
magnanimity ? No. Did they become insensible of resent- 
ment and indignation at any high handed attempt, that 
might have been made to injure or enslave them? No. 
What then has been the cause ? The truth is, we dreaded 
danger only on one side : this we manfully repelled. But 
on another side, danger, not less formidable, but more 

VOL. III. p p 



990 SPEKCir DELIVERED IN TUZ 

insidious, stole in upon us ; and our unsuspicious tempers 
were not sufficiently attentive, either to its approach or to 
its operations. Those, whom foreign strength could not 
overpower, have well nigh become the victims of internal 
anarchy. 

If we become a little more particular, we shall find that 
the foregoing representation is by no means exaggerated. 
When w.e had. baffled aH the menaces of foreign power, 
we neglected, to establish among ourselves agovernmenti 
diat would ensure domestick vigour and stability* What 
W«s the consequence f The commencement of peace was 
the commencement of every disgrace and distr^^ss, that 
could befal a people in a peaceful state. Devoid of na^^ 
tional power, we could not prohibit the extravagance of 
our importations, nor could we derive a revenue from 
their excess. . Devoid of national importance, we could 
not procure for our exports a tolerable sale at foreign 
markets. Devoid of national credit, irte saw our publick 
securities melt in the hands of the holdc^rs, like snow be- 
fore the sun. Devoid of national dignity, we could nott 
in some instances, perform our treaties on our parts; and, 
in other instances, we could neither obtain nor compel 
the performance of them on the part of others. Devoid 
of national energy, we could not carry into,execution Our 
own resolutions, decisions, or laws. 

Shall I become more particular still? The tedious 
detail would disgust me : nor is it t now necessary. 
The years of languor are past. We have felt the disho- 
nour, with which w6 have been covered : we have seen 
Ae destruction with which we have been -threatened. 
We have penetrated to the causes of both, and when 
we have once discovered them, we have begun to search 



f 



CONVENTIOK OF PENNSYLVANIA. 291 

for the means of removing them. For the confirmation 
of these remarks^ I need not appeal to an enumeration of 
facts* The proceedings of congress, and of the several 
states, are replete with them. They all point out the 
weakness and insufficiency of the present confederation 
as the cause, and an efficient general government as the 
only cure of our political distempers. 

Under these impressions, and with these views, was 
the late convention appointed ; and under these impres- 
sions, and with these views, the late convention met* 

We now sec the great end which they proposed to 
accomplish* It was to frame, for the consideration of 
their constituents, one federal and national constitution 
-^a constitution that would produce the advantages of 
good, and prevent the inconveniences of bad government 
•*-^ constitution, whose beneficence and energy would 
pervade the whole union, and bind and embrace the 
interests of every part — a constitution that would ensure 
peace, freedom, and happiness, to the states and people 
of Americsb 

• 

We are now naturally led to examine the means, by 
which they proposed to accomplish this end. This opens 
more particularly to our view the important discussion 
before us* But previously to our entering upon it, it 
will not be improper to state some general and leading 
principles of go'^^rnment, which will receive particular 
applications in the course of our investigations. 

There netessarily exists in every government a power, 
from which there is.no appeal ; and which, for that reason, 
may be termed supreme, absolute, and uncontrollable* 






^^ft SPEECH DELIVERED IH THE 

Where does this power reside ? To this qucstioa, writers' 
on different governments will give different answers. 
Sir William Blackstone will tell you, that in Britain, 
the power is lodged in the British parliament; that' 
the parliament may alter the form of the government; 
and that its power is absolute and without control. The 
idea of a constitution, limiting and superintending the 
operations of legislative authority, seemfe not to have 
been accurately undeqitood in Britain. There are, at 
least, no traces of practice, conformable ' to such a prin- 
ciple* The British constitution is just \^hat the Briti&h 
parliament pleases. When the parliament transferred, 
legislative authority to Henry the eighth, the ac^^ans-^ 
ferring it could not, in the strict acceptation of the tern>, 
be called unconstitutional. « ' ' 

■r 

To control the power and conduct of the legislature 
by an overruling constitution, was an improvement in > 
the science and practice of government reserved to the 
American States. 

Perhaps some politician, who has not ^ cooaidered, 
with sufficient accuracy, our politital systems, would 
answer, that, in our govei^iments, the supreme power 
was vested in th& constitutions. This opinion approaches 
a step nearer to the truth, buf does not reach it. The 
truth is, that, in our governments, the supreme, abso- 
lute, and uncontrollable power remains in the people. 
As our constitutions are superiour t# our legislatures; 
so the people are superiour to our constitutions. Indeed 
the superiority, in this Jn^ instance, is muchgreater^ 
for the people possess, over our consdtuUons,, control 
in act, 93 well a9 in rights 






COKVJENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA. 295 

The consequence is, that the people muy change the 
constitutions, Whenever and however they plea«e. This 
is a right, i>f which no positive institution can ever 
deprive them. 

These important truths, sir, are far frbm being merely 
speculative : we, at this moment, speak and deliberate 
under their immediate and benign infiuence. To the 
operation of these truths, we aiB to ascribe the scene, 
hitherto unparallelled, which America now exhibits to 
the world-— a gentle, a peaceful, a voluntary, and a 
deliberate transition from one constitution of govemmeat 
to another^ In other parts of the world, the idea of 
revolutions in govemn^ent is^ by a mournful and indisso- 
luble association, connected with the idea of j^wars, and 
all the calamities attendant on wars* But happy experi- 
ence teaches us to view such reyolutioiis in a very 
diflPerent light-— to consider them oaly as progressive 
steps in improving the knowledge of government, and 
increasing the happiness of society and mankind. 

» 
Oft have I viewed with silent pleasure and admiration 

the force and prevalence, through the United States, of 
this principle^ — ^that the supreme power resides in the 
people ; and that they never part with it* It may be 
called the panacea in politicks. Therje can be no disorder- 
in the community but may here receive *« radical cure. 
If the errour be in the legislature, it may be corrected 
by the constitution ; if in the constitution, it may be 
corrected by the people. There is a remedy, therefore, 
for every distemper in government, if the people are 
not waiting to themselves. For a people wanting to 
themselves, there is no reqtiedy: from their power, as 
we bave seen, there ;s no appeal : to their errour, there 
s no superiour principle of correction. 



9M SPEECH DELIVERED IM TB£ 

There are three simple species of government — mo- 
narchy, where the supreme power is in a single person — - 
aristocracy, where the supreme power is in a select asseno* 
bly, the members of which either fill up, by election, the 
vacancies in their own body, or succeed to their places 
in it by inheritance, property, or in respect of some 
personal right or qualification— *4i repablick or demo- 
cracy, where the people at large retain the i^preme power^ 
and act either coHectifrly or by representation* 

Each of these species of government has its advan- 
tages and disadvantages. ^ " 

The advantages of a monarchy are, strength, de^ 
spatch, secreoyy unity of counsel. Its disadvantages 
are, tyranny, expense, ignorance of the situation and 
wants of the people, insecurity, unnecessary wars, evils 
attending elections or successions. 

The advantages of aristocracy are, wisdom, arisiag 
from experiesce and education. Its. disadvantages are, 
dissensions among themselves, oppression to the lower 
orders. 

The advantages of democracy are, liberty, equal, 
cautious, and salutary laws, publick spirit, frugality^ 
peace, opportunities of exciting and producing abilities 
of the best citizens. Its disadvantages are, dissensions, 
the delay and disclosure of publick counsels, the imbeci- 
lity of publick measures retarded by the necessity of a 
numerous consent. 



A government may be composed of two or more of 
the simple forms abovementioned. * Soch is th^ BritisK 



CONVENTION OF PENNSTLTANIA* 



^95 



government. It would be ^n improper government for 
the United States ; because it is inadequate to such an . 
extent of territory ; and because it is suited to an esta- 
blishment of different orders of men. A more minute 
comparison between some parts of the British constitu- 
tion, and some part* of the plan before us, may, perhaps, 
iind a proper place in a subsequent period of our business. 

What is the nature and kind of that government, 
which has been proposed for the United States, by the 
late convention ? ^n its principle, it is purely demo- 
craticsd : but that principle is applied in different forms) 
in order to obtain the advantages, and exclude the incon- 
veniences of the simple modes of government. 

If we take an extended and accurate view of ft, we 
shall find this streams of power running in different direc- 
tions, in different dimensions, and at different heights, 
watering, adorning, and fertilizing the fields and mea.. 
dows, through which their courses are led ; but if we 
trace them, we shall discover, that they fill originally 
flow from one abundant fountain. In this constitution, 
all authority is derived from the people. 

Fit occasions will hereafter offer for particular remarks 
on the different parts of the plan* I have now to ask 
pardon of the; house for detaining them so long. 



V: 

9 



ORATION 



OSLIVERED ON THE FOURTH OF JULY 1788^ 



AT THE 



PROCESSION FORMED AT PHILADELPHIA . 



TO CELEBRATE THE 



ADOPTION OF THE CONSTITUTION 



OF THE UNITED STATES. 



YOL« III* q.q 



1 
t 



ORATION 



DELIVERED AT THE 



PROCESSION IN PHILADELPHIA. 



HY FRIENDS AND FELLOW CITIZENS, 

\ OUR candid and generous indulgence I may well 
bespeak, for many reasons. I shall mention but one* 
While I express it, I feel it in all its^orce. My abilities 
are unequal— -abilities far superiour to mine would be 
unequal — ^to the occasion on which I have the honour 
of being called to address you. 

A people free and enlightened, establishing and ratify- 
ing a system of goven\ment, which they have previously 
considerod, examined, and approved ! This is the spec« 
tacle, which we are assembled to celebrate ; and it is the 
most dignified one that has yet appeared on our globe* 
Numerous and splendid have been the triumphs of con- 
querors. But from what causes have they originated ? 
-^Of what consequences have they been productive? 



iOO ORATION DELIVEWED AT THE 

i 

They have generally begun in ambition : they have ge- 
nerally ended in tyranny. But nothing tyrannical can 
partipipate of dignity : and to freedom's eye, Sesostris 
himself appears contemptible, even when he treads on 
the necks of kings. 

The senators of Rome, seated on their curule chairs, 
and surrounded with all their official lustre, were an ob- 
ject much more respectable : and we view, without dis- 
pleasure, the admiration of those untutored savages, who 
considered them as so many gods upon earth. But who 
were those senators ? They were only a partof a society : 
they were vested only with inferiour powers. 

What is the object exhibited to our contemplation ? 
A whole people exercising its first and greatest power- 
performing an act of sovereignty, original and unlimited ! 

The scene before us is unexampled as well as magni- 
ficent^ The greatest part of governments have been the 
deformed ofFsprin|^ of force and fear. With these we 
deign not comparison. But there have been others which 
have formed bold pretensions to higher regard. You 
have heard of Sparta, of Athens, and of Rome ; you 
have heard of their admired constitutions, and of their 
high-prized, freedom. In fancied right of these, they 
conceived themselves to be elevated above the rest of the 
human race, whom they marked with the dejoading tide 
of barbarians. But did they, in all their pomp and pride 
of liberty, ever furnish^ to the astonished world, an ex- 
hibition similar to that whi^h we now contemplate? Were 
their constitutions framed by those, who were appointed 
-for that purpose, by the people ? After they were framed) 
- were they submitted to the consideration of the people i 



PHOtESSXOK IK VHtl^AllEXPRlA* dOI 

Haril th« people an opportunity of expressing their send* 
ments concerning them ? Were they to stand or fall by 
the people's approving or rejecting vote ? To all these 
questions, attentive iuid impartial history obliges us to 
answer in the negative. The people were either unfit to 
be trusted, or their lawgivers were too ambitious to trust 
them. 

The far-famed establishment of Lycurgus was intro- 
duced by deception and fraud. Under the specious pre*, 
tence of consulting the oracle concerning his laws, he 
prevailed on 'the Spartans to make a tetnporary eaqjeri* 
ment of them during his absence, and to swear that they 
would suiFer no alteration of them till his return. Taking 
a disingenuous advantage of their scrupulous regard for 
Aeir oaths, he prevented his return by a voluntary death, 
and, in this manner, endeavoured to secure a proud 
immortality to his system. 

Even Solon — the mild and moderating Solon-*— far 
from considering himself as employed only to propose 
such regulations as he should think best calculated for 
promoting the happiness of the commonwealth, made 
and promulgated his laws with all the- haughty airs of 
absolute power. On more occasions than one, we find 
him boasting, with much selfcom^acency, of his extreme 
forbearance and condescension, because be did not estab- 
lish a despotism in his own favour, and becau^ he did 
not reduce his equals to the humiliating condition of his 
slaves. , s 

Did Numa submit his iti^itntioii% to the good temt 
and free investigatioti cf R^mef They were received m 
precious communications from the goddess Egeria, with 
whose presence and regard he was supremely favoured i 




302 0R4TI0N DELIVERED AT THE 

and they were imposed on the easy faith of the citiaKeni, 
as the dictates of an inspiration that was divine. 

Such, my fellow citizens, was the origin of the most 
splendid establishments that have been hitherto known ; 
and such were the arts, to which they owed their intro- 
duction and success. 

What a flattering contrast arises from a retrospect of 
the scenes which we now commemorate? Delegates 
were appointed to deliberate and propose. They met 
and performed their delegated trust. The result of their 
deliberations was laid before the people. It was discussed 
and scrutinized in the fullest, freest, and severest man* 
ner — by speaking, by writing, and by printing — by indi- 
viduals and by publick bodies — ^by its friends and by its 
enemies. What was the issue ? Most favourable and 
Viost glorious to the system. In state after state, at 
time after time, it was ratified — ^in some states unani- 
mously— -on the whole, by a large and very respectable 
tnajority. 

r 

It would be improper now to examine its qualities* 
A decent respect for those who have accepted it, will lead 
us to presume that it is worthy of their acceptance. The 
deliberate ratifications, which have taken place, at once 
recommend the system, and the people by whom it has 
been ratified. 

But why, methinks I hear some one say — ^why is so 
much exultation displayed in celebrating this event I We 
are prepsffed to give the reasons of our joy. We rejoice, 
because, under this constitution, we hope to see just 



PROCESSION IN PHILADELPHIA. SOS 

government, and to enjoy the blessings that walk in it« 
train. 

Let us begin with Peace — ^the mild and modest har- 
binger of felicity ! How seldom does the amiable wan- 
derer choose, for her permanent residence, the habitations 
of men ! In their systems, she sees too many arrange- 
ments, ciYil and ecclesiastical^ inconsistent with the 
calmness and benignity of her temper. In the old world, 
how many millions of men do we behold, unprofitable to 
society, burthensome to industry, the props of establish- 
ments that deserve not to be sup^Dorted, the causes of 
distrust in the times of peace, and the instruments of 
destruction in the times of war? Why are they not em- 
ployed in cultivating useful arts, and in forwarding pub- 
lick improvements ? Let us indulge the pleasing expecta* 
tion, that such will be the operation of government in 
the United States. Why may we not hope, that, disen- 
tangled from the intrigues and jealousies of European 
politicks, and unmolested with the alarm and* solicitude to 
wjhich these intrigues and jealousies give birth, our coun- 
sels will be directed to the encouragement, and our 
strength will be exerted in the cultivation, of all the art* 
of peace ? 

Of these, the first is agriculture. This is true in all 
countries ; in the United States, its truth is of peculiar 
importance. The subsistence of man, the materials of 
manufactures, the articles of commerce — all spring ori- 
ginally from the soil. On agriculture, therefore, the 
wealth of nations is founded. Whether we consult the 
observations that reason will suggest, or attend to the 
information that history will give, we shall, in each case, 
be satisfied of the influence of government, good or bad. 



304» ORATIOW P£LIV£RED AT THE 

upon the state of agriculture* In a government, whose 
maxims are those of oppression, property is insecure. 
It is given, it is taken away, by caprice. Where there 
is no security for property, there is no encouragement for 
industry. Without industry, the richer the soil, the 
more it abounds with weeds. The evidence of history 
warrants the truth of these general remarks. Attend to 
Greece ; and compare her agriculture in ancient.and in 
modem times. Then, smiling harvests bore ^ testimony 
to the bountiful boons of liberty. Now, the ver}*^ earth 
languishes under oppression. View the Campania of 
Rome. How melancholy the prospect ! Whichever way 
you turn your afflicted eyes, scenes of desolation crowd 
hefore them. Waste and barrenness appear around you 
in all their hideous forms. What is the reason ? With 
double tyranny the land is cursed. Open the classick 
page : you trace, in chaste description, the beautiful 
reverse of every thing you have seen. Whence proceeds 
the difference \ When that description was made, the 
force of liberty pervaded the soil. 

But is agriculture the only art, which feels the influ*. 
ence of government? Over manufactures and commerce 
its power is equally prevalent. There the same causes 
operate — and tt^^re they produce the same effects. The 
industrious village, the busy city, the crowded port — all 
these are the gifts of liberty ; and without a good govern- 
ment, liberty cannot exist. 

These are advantages, but these are not all the advan- 
tages, that result from a system of good government. — 
Agriculture, manufactures, and commerce will ensure to 
us plenty,, convenience, and elegance'. But is there not 
something still waating to finish the man \ Are internal 



IrinMS and ftccomplishtnents less estimable^ otlt^ ftttmcl- 
ing than external arts and ornaments ? Is the operation of 
government less powerful upon the former than upon the 
lattet- f By no me&tts* Upon this as upoh a pi-eceding 
tt^ick, l-eusoh litid history will concur ih their infbrttiatioii 
arid advice. In k sfefehe hiitid, the fecientes sitid the viih* 
teres love to d^treil. But tan the mind of h than b^ siprehe^ 
when the property, liberty, subsistence of hittifeelf, ftftd <rf 
those for whom he feeU tnott; than h^ feels fbt hii^s^lf^ 
depend on a tyrant's nod. If the dispirited subject bi 
expression can^ with difficulty^ exett his enfeebled fMuU 
ties, ^ far as to provide, on the ince^ant defflatidb Of 
nature, fdod just enough to lengthen out his 1ri*etehed[ 
existence, can it be expected that, in such a state, lii^ will 
experience those fine and vigorous movements of the soul, 
without the full and free exercise of which, stiiftce and 
virtue will never flourish f L6ok around you to the nations 
that now exist. View, in historick retrospect, the natit>n3 
that have heretofore existed. The collected result will 
be, an entire tbuviction of these all-intetestihg truths-^ 
where tyranny reigns, there is the eountly of ignorance 
and vicc'-^where good government prevails, there is the 
country of science and virtue* iJnder a good govern* 
ment, therefore, we ihust look for the acconiplished tnan« 

. But shall we confine our views tv€u here ? While wt 
wish to be accomplished men at)d citizens, shall we wish 
to be nothing mote ? While We perforin our duty, and 
promote out happiness in this Worid, shall we bestow no 
regards upon the ne^tt ? l)oes no connection subsist be« 
tween the tWJ? Ftoifi this connelion floWs the ihoaft 
important of all the blessings of good government. But 
here let us pau^e-'^nassisted Reason caA guide us no 
farther — she directs^ usi to that heaveii-desciJAd^d sci* 

VOL. III. R r 



306 ORATION DJCLIVERED AT THE 

ence, by which life and immortality have been brought 
to light. 

May we not now say, that we have reason for our joy? 
But while we cherish the delightful *e motion, let us re- 
member those things, which are requisite to give it per- 
manence and stability. Shall we lie supine, and look in 
listless langour, for those blessings and enjoyments, to 
which' exertion is inseparably attached ? If we would be 
happy, we must be active. The constitutioa and our 
manners must mutually support ^nd be supported. Even 
on this festivity, it will not be disagreeable or incongruous 
to review the virtues and manners that both justify and 
adorn it. 

Fru^Ii^ and tempbrance first attract our attention. 
These simple but powerful virtues are the sole founda- 
tion, on which a good government can rest with security. 
They were the virtues, which nursed and educated infant 
Rome, and prepared her forall her greatness. But in the 
giddy hour of her prosperity, she spumed from her the 
obscure, instruments, by which it was procured ; and, in 
their place, substituted luxury and dissipation. The con* 
sequence was such as might have been expected. She 
preserved, for some time, a gay and flourishing appear- 
ance ; but the internal health and soundness of her con- 
stitution were gone. ""At last, she fell a victim to the 
poisonous draughts, which were administered by her per- 
fidious favourites. The fate of Rome, both in her rising 
and in her falling state, will be the fate of every other 
nation that shall follow both parts of her example. 

Industry appears next among the virtues of a good 
citizen. Idleness is the nurse of villains. The industrious 



'\ 



PROCESSION IN PHILADELPHIA. 307 

alone constitute a nation's strength. I will not expatiate 
on this fruitful subject. Let one animating reflection 
suffice. In a well c(»istituted commonwealth, the industry 
of every citizen extends beyond himself. A common in- 
terest pervades the society. Each gains from all, and all 
gain from each. It has often been observed, that the 
sciences flourish all together: the remark applies equally 
to the arts. v 

Your patrioiick feelings attest the truth of what I say, 
when, among the virtues necessary to merit and preserve 
the advantages of a good government, I number a warm 
and uniform attachment to liberty, and to the constitution* 
The enemies of liberty are artful and insidious. A coun- 
terfeit steals her dress, imitates her manner, forges her 
signature, assumes her name. But the real name of the 
deceiver is licentiousness. Such is her efirontery, that 
she will charge liberty to her face with imposture : and 
she will, with shameless front, insist that herself alone is 
the genuine character, and that herself alone is entitled to 
the respect, which the genuine character deserves. With 
the giddy and undiscerning, on whom a deeper impres- 
sion is made by dauntless impudence than by modest 
merit, her pretensions are often successful. She receives 
the honours of liberty, and liberty herself is treated as a 
traitor and a usurper. Generally, however, this bold 
impostor acts only a secondary part. Though she alone 
appear upon the stage, her motions are regulated by dart 
ambition, who sits concealed behind the curtain, and 
who knows that despotism, his other favourite, can always 
follow the success of licentiousness. Against these ene- 
mies of liberty, who act in concert, though they appear 
on opposite sides/ the patriot citizen will keep a watchful 
guard. > 



909 Q&ATION D£LIV£££D AT TKK 



« 



A good constitution is the greatest blessing, which a 
society can enjoy. Need I infer^ that it is the duty of 
^veiy citizen to use his best and. most unre nutting 
ende^^vours for preserving it pure, healthful, and vigorous i 
For the accomplishment of this great purposes, the exer« 
tions of no one citizen are unimportant* Let no ane* 
therefore, harbour, for a moment, the mean idea, that 
he is and can be of no value to his country : let the 
contrary manly impression animate his soul. £very one 
can, at many times, perform, to the state, useftU services, 
and he, who stieadiiy pursues the road of patriotism, has 
the most inviting prospect of being able, at some tim.es, 
to perform eminent ones. Allow me to direct your atten-; 
tion, in a very particular nianner, to a momentous part, 
which, by this constitution, every citizen will frequently 
be called to act. All those in places of power and trust 
will be elected either immediately by the people, or in 
suph a manner that their appointm,ent will depend ulti< 
mately on such immediate election. All the derivative 
movements of government must spring from the original 
movement of the people at large. If to this they give a 
sufficient force and a just direction, sdl the others witt 
be governed by its controlling power. To speak with* 
out a metaphor, if the pse^ple, at their elections^ tal^ 
care to choose none but representatives th^ti ^e^ wi^^ 
and good, their representa;tives will take carei„ in thek^ 
turn^ to choose or appoint none but such as are wise aiMt 
good also. The remark a|>plies to every sujcceeding 
election and appointment. Thus the characters, pn^r 
for publick officers will be diffused fron^ the. immediatie; 
eLectiona of thi^ P^opl^ over the repi^qtest p4^&of adinjU 
nistration*. Q£ mhitt immense coxt^equence is it^, thefv 
ti>at this, prijEoiuy duty, should be faitl^fuUy and sUl&dlf 
discharged ! On the faithful and skilful ditchai^ge qC ^ 



PHOCEaftlON IN PHILABXLPHIA. 309 

the'publidi: happiness or iafeiicity, under this and every 
other constitution, must, in a very great measure, de« 
pend. For, believe me, no government, even the beat, 
can be happily administered ^by ignorant or vicious 
men* You will forgive me, I am sure, for endeavouring 
to knpress upon your minds, in the strongest manner, 
the importance of this great duty. It is the first con* 
coction in politicks ; and if an errour is committed here, 
k can never be corrected in any subsequent process ; the 
certsun consequence must be disease. Let no one sayt. 
that he is but a single citizeu ; and that his ticket will 
he but one in the box. That one ticket may turn the 
election. In battle, every soldier should consider the 
publick safety as depending on his single arm : at aa 
election, every citizen should consider the publick hap« 
piness as depending on his single vote. 

A progressive state is necesaaiy to the happiness and 
perfection of man. Whatever attainments are already 
reached, attainments still higher should be pursued. Let 
UA, therefore, strive with noble emulation. Let us sup- 
pose we have done nothing, while any thing yet remaina 
to be done. Let us, with fervent zeal^ press forward, 
and make unceasing advances in every thing that can 
support, improve, refine, or embellish society. To enter 
into particulars under each of these heads, and to dilate 
them according to their importance, would be improper 
at this time. A few remarks on the last of them will 
be congenial with the eixtertainments of this auspicious 
day* 

If we givQ the slightest attention, to nature, we shall 
discover,, that with utility, she is curious to blend onuu 
sMiiW Can we inotalif. a battex pattern? Publick 



310 ORATION DELIVERED AT THE 

exhibitions have been the favourite amusements of 
some of the wisest and most accomplished nations. 
Greece, in her most shining era, considered her games 
as far from being the least respectable among her publick 
establishments. The shows of the circus evince that^ 
on this subject, the sentiments of Greece were fortiHed 
by those of Rome. 

Publick processions may be so planned and executed 
as to join both the properties of nature's rule. They 
may instruct and improve, while^ they entertain and 
please. They may point out the elegance or usefulness 
of the sciences and the arts. They may preserve the 
memory, and engrave the importance of great political 
events. They may represent, with peculiar felicity and 
force, the operation and effects of great political truths* 
The picturesque and splendid decorations around me 
furnish the most beautiful and most brilliant proof^ that 
these remarks are far from being imaginary. 

The commencement of our government has been 
eminently gloiious : let our progress in every excellence 
be proportionably great. It will — ^it must be so. What 
an enrapturing prospect opens on the United States ! 
Placid husbandry walks in front, attended by the venera- 
ble plough. Lowing herds adorn our vallies : bleating 
flocks spread over our hills : verdant meadows, enamelled 
pastures, yellow harvests, bending orchards, rise in rapid 
succefssion from east to west. Plenty, with her copious 
horn, sits easy smiling, and, in conscious complacency, 
enjoys and presides over the scenes. Commerce next 
advances in all her splendid and embellished forms. The 
rivers, and lakes, and seas, are crowded with ships. 
Their shores are covered with cities. The cities are 



PROCESSION IV PHILADELPHIA. 311 

filled with inhabitants. The arts, decked with elegance, 
yet with simplicity, appear in beautiful variety, and well 
adjusted arrangement. Around them are diffused, in 
rich abundance, the necessaries, the decencies, and the 
ornaments of life. With heartfelt contentment, indus- 
try beholds his honest labours flourishing and secure. 
Peace walks serene and unalarmed over all the unmo- 
lested regions — while liberty, virtue, and religion go 
hand in hand, harmoniously, protecting, enlivening, and 
exalting all ! Happy country ! May thy happiness be 
perpetual! 



r 



' 
' 



.( 



SPEECH 

ON CHOOSING THE MEMBERS OF THE SENATB 

BY ELECTORS ; 

DELIVERED, ON 31st DECEMBER. 17^89, 

IN THE CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA, 

» •■ ^ • 

ASSEMBLED FOR THE PURPOSE OF REVIEWING, ALTERING, AND 
AMENDING THE CONSTITUTION OF THE ^TATS. ' 



VOIit XII» 



• • 



r»' 



SPEECH IN CONVENTION, * 



ON 3l8t DECEMBER, 1789. 



W ELL assured I am, that the subject now before the 
convention must appear to hopourable members, for 

* Thfe debate, in the course of which tbis speech was delivered, 
related to the follpwbg provisions in the draft of a canstitation 
reported to the convention bja, committee appointed for th^ 
purpose. 

^ The citizens of the city of Philadelphia and of the severdl 
counties in this state, qualified to elect. representatives, when assem- 
bled for that purpose, shall, if occasion require, at the same time^ 
at the same places, and in the same manner, for every representa* 
tive, elect two persons resident within their citf or county respec* 
tively, asekctors of the senator or s^ators qf their district 

- « * ■ 

• << ; Within days after their election, the electors of eacb 
district shall meet ^together at some convenient place withm tl^ 

r district, and dect the senator or senators for their- district 

^^ .No Sector shall be chosen a senator. 



816 SPEECH DELIVERED IN THE 

i^hom I have much regard, under an aspect very different 
from that, in which it makes its approaches to me.. In- 
deed it has not always appeared to myself in precisely 
the same light, in which I now view it. One reason 
may bej that I have not formerly been accustomed to 
contemplate it from the point of sight, at which I now 
stand, and from which it is my duty, enjoined by the 
strongest ties, to make the most attentive and accurate 
observations. I have considered it as a subject of specu- 
lative discussion. I have taken of it such a slight and 
general survey, as one perspn would take of the estate 
of another, without any expectation that it, or one simi- 
lar to it, would ever become his own. On such a vague 
and superficial examination, I have not studied or inves- 
tigated its inconveniences or defects. 

The very respectable senate of Maryland, chosen by 
electors, furnishes with letters of recommendation every 
institution, to which it bears even a distant resemblance. 
The moderation, the firmness, the wisdom, a^id the 
consistency, which have character! zed the proceedings of 
that body, have been of signal benefit to the state, of 
whose government it forms a part ; and have be^n the 
theme of just applause in her sister states. It is by no 
means surprising, that a favourable opinion has been 
entertained concerning the principles and manner of its 
constitution. 

'< No parson «hail \fe <cho8en an ^edor, who shaJl not have resi- 
ded In the district three years next before his election. And no 
peisoB shalf -be chcsen an elector, who is a member of the l^sla- 
t«re, or who holds aoy^flEice in the appclntaaent of the execolnrft 
departmeoL" JSd, 



. CONVEWTIOW or PENNSYLVANIA. 31 f> 

But now that the question relative to those poinUi 
comes before us, in the discharge of our high trust, we 
must devest ourselves of ever}'^ prepossession, which 
we may have hitherto indulged; and must scrutinize 
the subject closely, strictly, deeply, and minutely. It ia 
incumbent upon us to weigh well, 1« Whether the quali- 
ticjs, that so deservedly appreciate the senate of Mary- 
land, may not be secured to a senate, formed and 
organized upon very different and more eligible princi- 
ples. 2. Whether the principles, upon which that 
.senate has been formed and organized, are applicable 
to the plan laid before ihe convention* 

It is admitted, on one side, that the electors should 
he chosen by the same persons, by whom it is contended, 
4^n the other side, that the senators should be chosen. 
The only question, then, is, whether an intermediate 
grade of persons, called electors, should be introduced 
between the senators and the people. 

I beg leave to state to the house the light, in which this 
subject has appeared to mre, on an examination which I 
may venture to style atteivtivie ; and to make some remarks^ 
naturally resulting, in my opinion, from the views I have 
taken of it on different sides. 

When I am called upon to appoint other persons to 
make laws for me^ I do it because such an appointment 
is of absolute necessity ; for the citizens of Pennsylvania 
can neither assemble nor deliberate together in one place. 
When I reflect, that the laws which are to be made may 
affect my own life, ttiy own liberty, my own propert}% 
and the lires, liberties, properties, and prospects of others 
IHeewise, who are dea^rest to mie,! cdnsider the trust, whick 



> % 



S18 BPE£CR DELIVEKEB IN THE 

I place in those for whom I vote to be legislators, as the 
greatest that one man can, in the course of the business 
of life, repose in another. I know none, indeed, that 
can be greater, except that, with which the members of 
this convention are now honoured ; and which happens 
not but once, and ofteiji not once, in the succeiisive revp- 
lutions of numerous cenluriesL But I console myself 
that the same trust, which is comoiitted by me, is also 
committed by others, who are as deeply interested in its 
exercise as I am. I console myself fiutiier, that tho9c» 
^o whom this trust is committed, are the imme^liate choice 
of myself, and of those others equally interested with 
nyselfl 

But, by the, plan before you, I am bow called upon to 
•delegate this trust in a manner, and to transfer it to a 
distance, which I have never experienced before— I am 
called upon, not /to appoint legislators of my own choicet 
but to impower others to appoint whomscTcver they shaS 
think proper, to be legislators over me, and over those 
nearest to me in the different relations of life—- 1 am 
called upon to do this, pot only for myself, but for thou- 
sands of my constituents, who have confided to me their 
interests and rights in thisi convention. — I am called upon 
to do this for my constituents, and f*^ myself, for the 
avowed purpose of introducing a choice, diiferent from 
that which they or I would make. I say different f be* 
cause, if the people and the electors would choose the 
same senators', there cannot he even a shadow of pretence 
for acting by the nugatory intervention of electors. I 
am called upon to do this, not only for the purpose of 
introducing, a choice of senators different from that which 
the people would make ; but for the additional purpose 
of introducing a new -state of things and relations hithexto 



J 



CONVEHTION OF PENNSYLVANIA, S19 

unknown between the people and their legislators. Oii 
the pHnciples of representation, as hitherto understood 
and practised, there was a trust, and one of the most 
intimate and important kind, betweeij the people and 
their representatives, apd a responsibility of the latter to 
the former. On the plan reported, that trust and that 
responsibility will certainly be weakened : it is doubtful 
whether they will not be wholly destroyed. Can a trust 
subsist without some mutual agreement or consent ? Can 
responsibility, resulting from an election, operate in behalf 
of those who do not choose ? Suppose one of the citizens, 
who chose an elector, who chose a senator, to expostulate 
with that senator concerningsome part of his senatorial con- 
duct ; might not the senator retort upon hini — Sir, I know 
not you in this business : I was not chosen a senator by 
you : I was chosen by > To them I am ready to ac* 

count for what I have done. You chose them my electors : 
if any thing is amiss, you will please to look to them for 
satisfaction. For, give me leave to tell you, that I know 
not you nor the other people of your district in my c6n# 
duct as a senator: neither you nor they chose me. The 
constitution, sir, supposes that neither they nor you would 
have chosen me, if you had been indulged with a choice ; 
for the constitution supposes an election made by electors 
to be very different indeed from that which would be 
made by the people. — ^What answer could be made to 
this? 

But if this must be styled a trust, it is certainly one 
of a new and of a very extraordinary nature. It may 
subsist not only without the will or knowledge of those 
:£rom whom it originates ; but, on the principles of this 
plan, it may subsist against their will declared in the most 
publick an4 explicit manner. Suppose a senator to behave 



890 SPEECH DELIVE&BD IN TKE 

altogether to the dissatisfaction of s^ district, fo^ which he 
is appointed : suppose the people unanimously incliaed 
to remove him at the next election. Can they do it ? 
No. Suppose them to give the most unequivocal instruct 
tions ti> the electors for this ptirpose: the electors may 
choose him, the instructions notwithstanding: and the 
senator may hrave them and tell them that he wiU leg^late 
for them, and make them feel all the effects of his legis- 
lative power, in spite of their unavailing ef)Fbns to the 
contrary. 

Sir, I will consider well— -I will ponder long — before 
I consent that legislators be introduced i^ a shs^ so 
very questionable. I am placed in a new situation* Per* 
mit me to view it ag^in. I am caUed upon to traaafer 
a right—the right of immediate representation in the le- 
gislature— a right which I have hitherto retained un- 
alienated — a right which has never, heretofore, been trans- 
ferred by the citizens of Pennsylvania. Certainly^ air, 
this new situation requires th^t I should make a solema 
paus&— 4ook around me, and reflect what my constituents 
and I have been^ and what we lure likely to be« 

Many hoiaourable members of this convention are, I 
presume, in the same predicament with myself; both as 
it respects their constituents, and as it respects them- 
selves. On every account, it is proper to weigh this 
subject well. 

Those who advocate the plan of elecfeots must do 

so, either to avoid inconveniences which cannot be 

. avoided^ or to obtain advantages which camiotbe obtains 

caiy in an election by the people themidvesw We aecy 



CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA, 321 



/ 



'^erefore, naturally led to institute a comparisontbetween 
the two modes of election y and to estimate and balance 
tiie qualities and consequences of each. 

The subject is of higband extensive importance in 
the theory and practice of government ; and well deserves 
a full, a patient, and a candid investigation* 

The works of human invention are progressive ; and 
frequently are not completed, till after a slow and 
lengthened series of gradual improvements, remotely 
distant from one another both in place and in time. To 
the theory and practice of government this observation 
is applicable with peculiar justness and peculiar force. In 
this science, few opportunities have been given to the 
human mind of indulging itself in easy and unrestrained 
investigation : still fewer opportunities have offered of 
verifying and correcting investigation by experiment. An 
age — ?L succession of ages elapses, before a system of 
jurisprudence rises from its first rude beginnings. When 
we have made a little progress, and look forward, a few 
eminences In prospect are fondly supposed the greatest 
elevation we shall be obliged to ascend. But these, 
oncp gained, disclose, behind them, new and superiour 
degrees of excellence yet unattained. In beginning and 
continuing the pursuit of those arduous paths, through 
which this science leads us, the tracts, which we explore, 
point to others, which yet remain to be explored* 

If the discoveries in government are difficult and bIow$ 
how much more arduous must it be to attain, in practice, 
the advantage of those discoveries, after they have been 
made ! Of some governments, the foundation has been 
laid in necessity ; of others, in fraud j of others, la 
VOL. in. T t 



322 SPEECH DELIVERED IN THE 

force ; of how few, in deliberate and discerning choice I 
If, in their commencement, they have been so unpropi- 
tious to the principles of freedom, and to the means of 
happiness ; shall we wonder that, in their progress, they 
have been equally unfavourable to advances in virtue 
and excellence? 

Let us ransack the records of history :< in all our 
researches, how few fair instances shall we be able to 
find, in which a government has been formed, whose 
end has been the happiness of those for whom it was 
designed ? how few fair instances shall we be able to 
find, in which such a government has been acl ministered 
with a steady direction towards that^nd ? 

To these considerations, we must add others^ which 
show still further the numerous and strong obstacles, 
that lie in the way of improvement in jurisprudence. 
Government founded on improper prmciples, and direct- 
ed to improper objects, has a powerful and pernicious 
bias both upon those who rule, and those who are ruled. 
Its bias upon the first will occasion no surprise : its bias 
upon the second, however surprising, is not, perhaps, 
less efficacious, whether we consider their sentiments or 
their conduct. Thus the principles of despotism become 
the principles of a whole nation, blinded and degraded 
by its destructive influence. Power, splendour, influence, 
prejudice, fashion^ habit, pride, and meanness, are 
all arranged to countenance ^nd support those principles. 

When we revolve, when we compare, when we com- 
bine the remarks we have been now making ; when we 
take a slight glance of others that might hie ofifered; 
we shall be at no lostf to accoil^t for the slow and small 



CONVENtS[ON OF PENNSYLVANIA. 323 

progress, that, after a long lapse of ages, has been made 
in the science and practice of government. 

This progress has been peculiarly slow and sm^U in 
the discovery and improvement of the interesting doc- 
trines and rules of election, and representation. If 
government, with regard to other subjects, may be said) 
as with propriety it has been said, to be still in its infancy; , 
we may well consider it, with regard to this subject, as 
only in its childhood. And yet this is the subject, which 
must form the basis of every government, that is, at 
once, efficient, respectable, and free. The pyramid of 
government— and a republican government may well 
receive' that beautiful and solid form — should be raised 
to a dignified altitude: but its foundations must, of 
consequence, be broad, and strong, and deep. The 
authority, the interests, and the affections of the people 
at large are the only basis, on which a superstructure, 
proposed to be at once durable and magnificent^ can be 
rationally erected. 

Representation is the chain of communication between 
the people, and those to whonl they have committed the 
exercise of the powers of government. If the materials^ 
which form this chain, are sound and strong ; I shall not 
be very anxious about the degree to which they arc 
polished. But, in order to impart the true republican 
lustre to freemen, I know Ho means more efficacious, 
than to invite and admit them to the rights of suffrage, 
and to enhance, as much as possible, the value of that 
right* 

I well know how shamefully this right, all-important 
as it is, has beeu neglected— -I well know iiow often we 



324 « 8PE£Cir DBLIVERKD IN THE 

have seen the election ground, thinly frequented, or 
almost deserted, bear mournful testimony^ to the indo- 
lence or to the indifference of the electors, I well know 
by what frivolous causes they have sometimes been 
induced to forego the enjoyment of the noblest rig^ 
of men. But we will indulge the fond conjecture, that 
thid supineness has been owing neither to defect nor 
degeneracy in the minds and principles of our citizens, 
nor to ignorance or disregard x>f the exalted rank, to 
which, as citizens of a free commonwealth, they are 
entitled. It has been occasioned, we flatter ourselves, 
by the narrow point of view, in which the right of elec- 
tion, before the revolution, was considered ^ and by 
the few objects, to which the exercise of it was directed* 
Before that > event, the doctrine and the exercise of 
authority by representation was confined in Pennsylvania, 
a& in England, to oue bratich of (»ne of the great powers, 
into which we have seen government divided : and over 
even that branch a double negative was held suspended 
by two powers, neither of them professing, to derive 
Itheir authority from the people. Our surprise will be 
diminished, and our reprehension will be softened, by" 
reflecting, that,, in this dependent situation, the ardour 
of citizenship was probably damped as well as confined* 
Habits, once formed* and become familiar, are not soon 
OF easily laid aside. Oiir customs do not always or 
immediately vary in proportion to the variation of their 
causes. Indifference to elections, once less important, 
has continued, though their importance has^ been* ama- 
zingly increased- But this, we hope,, will, not be the 
case long. The magnitude of the right will, we trusty 
secure, in future,, the merited attention to the exercise 
ofit. 



CONVENTION OF PSNN8YXVANIA. 321^ 

What is the right of suffrage, which we now dis*play, 
to be viewed, admired, and enjoyed by our constituents i 
Is it to go to an obscure tavern in an obscure comerof an 
ebscure district, and to vote, amidst the fumes of spiritous 
liquors, fqr a justice of the peace ? There, indeed, no lesw 
son would probably be learned, but that of low vice ; no 
example would probably be showh^ but that of illiberal 
gunning. Is it even to choose the members of one part of 
a legislature, the patriotick counsels and e£R>rts of which 
part are liable, at every moment, to be controlled and 
&uatpated by the negatives of other pawers, independent 
of the authority, and indifferent, perhaps unfriendly, to 
the interests of the people ? ^Here, indeed, there might 
be room for lessons of frigid caution, and timid prudence.^ ' 
It might not be thought advis&le to elect a representative 
of bold, undissembled, and inflexible virtue : he might be 
obnpxious to his superiours in the other line ; and, instead 
of averting, might provoke the exercise of their overruling 
power. , 

■ ' 

Of much higher import— -of much more improving > 
efficacy, is that right, which is now the object of our con« 
templation. It is a right tQ choose, in large and respect- 
able assemUies, all the legislative, and many of the exe- 
cutive officers of the government; it is a right to choose 
those,, who shall be ijivested with the authority and wit^> 
the confidence of the people, and who/ may employ that 
authority and that confidenee for the noblest interests of 
the commonwealth^ without the apprehension of disap- 
pointment or cimtroL 

This, surely, must have a powerful tendency to open^^ 
to enlighten, to enlarge, and to exalt the mind. I cannot 
aufficiently express my own ideas of the dignity and value 



\ 



326 8PSECH DELXVXRID IN TRB 

« 

of tfaU right* In real m^jestyf an independent ancT un« 
biassed elector stands superiour to princes, addressed by^ 
the proudest titles, attended by the most magnificent reti- 
nues, and decorated with the most splendid regalia. His 
sovereignty is original : theirs is only derivative. 

The benign influence flowing from the possession and 
exercise of this right deserves to be fully and clearly 
pointed out. The man who enjoys the right of suffrage 
on the extensive scale which we have marked, wiU natu- 
rally turn h^s attention to the contemplation of publick 
men and publick measures. The inquiries he wiU make, 
the information he will receive, and his own reflections on 
both will afford a beneficial and amusing employment to 
his mind. I am far from insinuating that every citizea 
should be an enthusiast in politicks, or that the interests 
of himself, his family, and those who depend on him for 
theiir comfortable situation in life, should be absorbed in 
Quixote speculations about the management or the refor* 
mation of the state. But there is surely a golden mean in 
things ; and there cam be no real incompatibili^ between 
the discharge of one's publick and that of his private duty. 
Let private industry receive the wannest encouragement ; 
for it is the basis of publick lia|ipniess* But must the bow 
of honest industry be always^bent i At no moment shall a 
Utde relaxation be allowed i That relaxation, if property 
directed, may prove to be instructive as well as agreeable* 
It may consist in reading a newspaper, or in conversing 
with a fellow citizen. May not the new^xiper convey 
some interesting intelligence, or contain some usefiA 
essay ? For all newspapers are not dedicated to the demon 
of slander* May not the conversation take a ^ileasing and 
am improving^ turn ? Many hours, I believe, areevtFy 
^y|i«re sprat in talUng idMiM the naiiapeflwt eoi^^ 



CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA. S27 

of the day or m the neighbourhood ; and, perhaps, the 
frailti'es or the involuntary imperfections oJF a neighbour 
form too often one of the sweet but poisonous ingredients 
of the discourse. Would it be ahy great detriment to 
society or to individuals, if other characters, and with 
different views, were brought upon the carpet ? 

At every election, a number of important appointments, 
must be made. To do this, is, indeed, the business of a 
day. But it ought to be the business of much more than 
a day to be prepared for doing it well. When a citizen 
elects to oflSce— give me leave to repeat it— he performs 
an act of the first political consequence. He should be 
employed, on every convenient occasion, in making 
researches after proper persons for filling the different 
departments of power; in discussing, with his n^igh* 
bours and fellow citizens, the qualities that should be 
possessed by those who fill the several offices ; and in 
acquiring information, with the spirit of manly candour, 
concerning the manners, and history, and characters of 
those, who are likely to be candidates for the publick 
choice. A habit of conversing and reflecting on these 
subjects, and of governing his actions by the result of 
his deliberations, will fonh, inthe mind of the citizen^ 
a uniform, a strong, and a lively sensibility to the inte» 
rests of his country. The same causes wiH produce a 
warm and an enlightened attachment to those, who are 
best flfcted and best disposed to support and advance those 
interests. 

By these means, and in this manner, pure and genu- 
ine patriotism— that kind, which consists in liberal inv^* 
tigation and disinterested conduct*-48 produced, cherish* 
ed, and strengthened in the mind: by these means, and in 



SM ISiTEECH DELIVERED IN TR 

this maimer, the warm and generous emotion ^lows 
and is reflected from breast to breast. 

Investigations of this nature would be useful -and 
improving not to their authors only : they would be so 
to their objects likewise. The love of honest and well* 
earned fame is deeply rooted in honest and susceptible 
minds'! Can there be a stronger incentive to the energy 
of this passion, than the' hope of becoming the object of 
wellfounded and distinguishing applause I Can there be 
a more complete gratification of this passion, than the 
satisfaction of knowing that this applause is given — ^that 
it is* given upon the most honourable principles, and 
acquired by the most honouratde pursuits? To souls 
truly ingenuous^ indiscriminate praise, misplaced {»aise^ 
flattering praise, interested praise have^ no bewitching 
charms. But when publi^^k approbation is the result of 
publick discernment, it must be highly [leasing to those 
who give, and to those who receive it. 

Let us now review a little the steps we have trod: 
let .{is reconsider the ground we have passed over^ 
and the observations we have made. Have I painted the 
rights of election in colours too flattering ?' — Have I 
placed their importance in a light too strong ?— Have I 
described their influence in language, or in sentiments, 
that have been exaggerated i I presufaie that I have 
not. 

If, then, the remarks [which I have made, and the 
deductions which I have drawn, will bear — and, I trust 
they will bear — ^the test of strict and sober scrutiny; 
what is the result necessarily flowing from the whole i 
It is undeniably this^-chat the rights of suffirage^ properly 



r 



\ 



> CONVEKTIOH of PEHNSYLVAKIA, St9 

understood, properly vakied, properly cultivated^ and, 
properly exercised, is a rich, mine of intelligence and 
patriotisn^x^hat it is an abundant source • of the most 
rational, the most improving, and the most endearing 
connexion among the citizens— and that it is a mosftpow* 
erful, and, at the same time, a most pleasing bond of 
union b^ween the citizens^ tod those whom they neled 
fot the different offices ami departme];its of govotiK* 
ment* 

If these things art sof why ^outd this rights *0 
valuable and importamt, the cAu^e- of so many btessings^ 
moral, ^intellectual, and political, be weakened— ^-wby 
should it be interrupted by the interjection of electors ? 
Reasoils irr&sjstibly cogent will certainly be urged and 
Supported, before such a measure will be adopted by 
the members of this convention.' 

* . ' ' • . 

It has been already mentioned, that those who advo* 
cate the plan of electors must do so, either to avoid 
itieonventences which cannot be avoided, of to obtain 
advantages which cantiot be obtained, in an election by 
the people.. What incflmveniences will be avoided ? 

WiM the mcietin^ of the people be less frequetoty less 
troabksorire, or Kss expensive in choosing cjlectors tktttt 
in choosing senators ? In respect bpth of freqiiiency and 
of trouble f hey will be prccisefy the same; In respect 
of expense, the mconvenience wiH be itidreased by 
clrdosing electors ; ' fcr it will be but reasonable dvat an 
allowance be made to them for thetr time, their trouble^ 
and thw" services, ht these respects, therefore, no 
inconvenience will be avoided, but an inconvenience 
will be incurred, by choosing electors. 

VOL. III. u u 



S30 8PX.£CH DELIVERED IN THE 

Vy^ill inconveniences respecting the objects ijf choi^^ 
attend elections by the people, and be avoided in elec- 
tions by electors ? What are those inconveniences ? 

Will the choice of the people be less valid than the 
choice of electors? That will not be pretended, since 
the electors themselves will derive a// their authoritjf 
firpm the people. 

Will the choice of the people be. less honourable 
than the choice of electors i In republican governments, 
the people are the fountain of honour as well as of 
power. 

s 

Will the choice of the people be less disinterested 
than the choice of electors f iQterest will probably be 
consulted in both choices : but, in the £rst, the interests 
of the individuals, added together, will form precisely 
the aggregate interest of the whole ; whereas, in the 
last, the interests of the electors, added together, will 
^rm but a small part of the interests of the whole; 
and that small part may be altogether unattached, nay, 
it n(iay be altbgeth^r repugnant, to the Remainder. 

Will the choice of the people be less in^artial than the 
choice of elect6rs ? The answer to this question is deter- 
ipined by the ansfwer to the last* An impartial choice, 
in the case before us, is a choice that embraces the 
interests of the whole ; a partial choice is that which 
embraces the interests, only of a fart. A choice by 
the people^ is most likely to suit the first description : 
a choice by electors is tiiost likely to suit the last* 



J 



CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA. 



331 



.Will the choice of the people be made with lesa 
solici^de and fewer precautions for their common advan* 
tage than the choice^ of electors ? If every individual 
among the people attends to his own advantage ; the 
common advantage, which is the joipt result of the 
whole, will be provided for. But every elector may 
be very attentive to his own advantage ; and yet the 
common advantage may be left wholly unprovided 
for. 

' - . 

Will the choice of the people be less wise than the 
cl^oice of electors? We have already seen that it will 
not be less valid, nor less honourable, nor less disin- 
terested, nor less impartial, nor less for the common 
advantage ; having seen all this, we may pronounce the 
presumption to be violent, that it will not be less wise. 
Upon this presumption we shall leave the matter for the 
present. 

Permit me to observe, in the mean time, that incon* 
veniences unavoidable in elections by the people, but alto- 
gether .forelg;n from elections by electors, ought to b« 
shown clearly and/ undeniably on the other side. 



The next inquiry is-^what advantages can be obtained 
in elections^ by electors, .that ^e unattainable in elections 
by the people. 

This side of the inquiry is, in my view, very much 
anticipated by the discussion of the other side: indeed. 
it appears to me wholly unproductive. To those who. 
thiak and speak in favour of electors, it may disclose 
sources of s^undant fertility : to their investigations and 
discoveries I cheerfully leave it ; observing, under thit 



332 ftfEECH l>ELrV£R£D IN THE. 

he^kdf that the adv^^ntages to be gained, as well as the 
inconveniencef to b^ avoided^ ought to be shown deiuiy 
and undeniably on the other side. For if, upon the 
whole, the balance shall hang in equilibrio ; the pre4ilec-« 
don, for the strong reason already mentioned, will cer<* 
tainly be in favour of a choice h(y the people. themselyes, 
and not by electors. , . v 

This predilection ought to operate for another reason, 
which has not yet been mentioned. It will be cheerfully 
admitted, that all power 4s ori|^inally in the people : the 
consequence, unavoidable, is, that power ought to be 
exercised personally by the people, when this can he done 
without inconyenience and without disadvantage^ .I« 
some of the small republicks of Greece, and in the first 
ages of the commonwealth of I^ome, the people votedt 
eVen on the |>assing of Istws, in their aggregate. ci^acity* 
Among the ancient Germans this was also done upon great 
occasions. ^^ De minoribus consultant principe^,'^ says 
Tacitus, in his masterly account of Germany, ^^ de ma- 
joribus omnes." And from the practices of the ancient 
Germans, some of the finest maxims of modern govern*^ 
ment are drawn. If, therefore, no inconvenience wiB 
be avoided, and no advantage will be obtained by the 
plan of eUctors-^and this is the ease, so far as we have 
yet seeiw-^that plan should nqt be substituted in the place 
of a choice of senators by the people themselves. 

Were we to satisfy ourselves with thb partial and 
incomplete consideration of the subject i I app^head 
we should be extremely unwilUiig to transfer the choke 
of senators from the people to electors. Bui if we pur* 
sue the examination a lijtde further^ we shaU find stiB 
stronger raasoos tor this ithictaocc : lor we Aatt lad. 



I beH^ve, that, by such bl transfer, instead of avoidii^ 
iiiconvenience:ai and bbtaining advantages, we shall sacri* 
fice advantages for the acquisition of inconveniences* 

The poAtical connei^on between the people and those 
whom they distinguish by elective offices, and .the reci- 
procal sensations and engagements resulting ft-om that 
connexion, I consider as most interesting in their nature^- 
atid niost rhomentous in their consequences. This con- 
nexion should tie as intimate as possible : if possible, it 
should be indissoluble. Confidence-^mutual and endear- 
ing tOnfidetice — between those who impart power and 
those to whom power is imparted, is the brightest gem 
in the diadem of a republick. Let us seduloiisly avoid 
every dang^of its being broken or lost. 

Will there be thie same generous emotions of confidence 
in the body of citizetiis towards the senators ? — Will there 
be the ^ame warm effusions of gratitude in the senator 
towards the body of the citizens, if the cold breath 
of electors i^ suffered -to blow between them? Can the 
senator say to the people — ^you are my constituents j for 
you chbse me ? Ckn the people say to the senator — ^you 
are our trustee, for you are the object of our choice ^ 
'Will not these relations, equally delightful and attractive 
on both '*ides, fee greatly weattened* — will not their in- 
fluence be greatly diminished, by the interpositfon of 
electors ? 

But let us contemplate this subject in a still more se- 

/ rions and ittiportant poitit of view/ The great desidem^ 

tilm. in pt^iticks is, to form a govemmenSt, that will, at 

ftie satti^ time, des^frve the seemingly opposite epMiets 

/—efficient and fi^e. I am sanguine enough to think that: 



334 SPEECH DELtVERED IV THE 

this can be done. But, I think, it can be .done pnly hj 
forming a popular government* To render government 
efficient, powers must be given libenUIy : to tender it, 
free as well as efficient, those powers must be drawn from 
the people, as directly and as immediately al possible. 
Every degree of removal is attended with a corrcfspondr 
ing degree of danger. I know that removals, or at least 
one removal, is, in many instances, necessary in the ez<- 
ecutive and judicial departments. But is this a Feas6n 
for multiplying or lengthening them without necessity I 
Is it a reason for introducing them. into the legislative 
department, the most powerful, and, if ill constituted^ 
the most dangerous^ of all ? No« Bat it is a strong rea* 
son forexcluding them wherever they can be excluded; 
and for shortenibg them as much as possible wherever 
they necessarily take place. Corruption and putridity 
are more to be dreaded from the length, than from the 
strength, of the streams of authority^ ^ 

On this great subject, { ofi^r my sentiments, as it is 
my duty to do, without reserve* I think — rthat all the 
officers in the legislative department should be the infime- 
diate choice of the people — that only one removal should 
take place in the officers of the eiecutif e and judicial 
departments — and that, in this l^st department, a very 
important share of {he business should be transacted by 
the people themselves. 

These are, in a few words, the great outlines of the 
government, which I would choose. I fondly flatter my- 
self that all the parts of it might be safely9 compactly, and. 
iKrmly knit together ; and that the qualities of goodness^; 
wisdom, and energy might animate, sustain, and pervade 
the whole. 



•.■*v 



CONVENTION Of PEKKSTLVANI4. 335 

Aad lor, what should we sacrifice all the valaable con- 
ncpuons, principles, and advantages,., which have been 
xnentibned i For electors ? — Who are those electors to 
be? Logicians sometimes describe the subjects of th^ir 
profoimd lucubratioos negatively as well as positiv^ely- 
Let us borrow a hint from them^ on this occasion. Who 
are those electors not to be ? 1. They will be such as 
the people will think ^not the fittest to represent them in 
the most numerous branch of the legislature ; for no re- 
presentatives can be electors. 2« They will be such as 
the people will think not th|e fittest to be senators } for no 
elector can be a seijator ; and therefore the people will not 
chpose those to be elfsctors, whom they would wish to see 
in the senate. 3. They will be such as the govemour has 
thought^pot the fittest for any qffice^in the executive or 
judicial departments;' for persons holding appointments 
in any of those departments cannot be electors. I was 
going to say, in the fourth place, that they will Be such as 
will be thought not the fittest for any office under the exe- 
cutive department in future^. But herC) I find, I am mis- 
taken. For they may hold offices the moment after their 
election bf senators ; and I will not assert it to be impos- 
sible, that they will acquire^ their qualifications for those 
offices by theirj^cpnducjt in that election. 

Thus far we have pursued their negative descriptions. 
The task of expatiating on their positive qualities^ I beg 
leave, for the present, to assign to those who must be sup- 
posed to understand them much better. For they must 
certainly know well the purify ing virtues of those political 
al^mbicks, through which they wish to see our senators 
sublimated and refined. 

Among the numerous good qualities of the electors, 
we hope, one will be— that they will be unsusceptible of 




J336 ffTEZCn ZUELtV£&£D IK THK 

intrigue or cabal among themselves. A sreeond) we liope, 
win be^^that they will be inaccessible- to the impressioiis 
of intrigue and cabal from others; A third, we hope, wtD 
be— ^hat as the people, by choosing them electors, have 
intimated decemly that they think ikemnot theiittest per* 
sons. to be senators, the^ will cultivate the same decent 
reserve with regard to their brothers, their consins, their 
other relations, their friends, their dependents^ and their 
patrons* 









< / 



SPEECH 



DELIVERED, ON 19th JANUARY, 1790, 



IN THE CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA, 

ASSEMBLED FOR THE PURPOSE OF REVIEWING) ALTERING, AND 
AMENDING THE CONSTITUTION OF THE STATE; 

ON A MOTION THAT 

M NO MEMBER OF CONGRESS FROM THIS STATE, NOR ANY 
PERSON HOLDING OR EXERCISING ANY OFFICE OF TRUST 
OR PROFIT UNDER THE UNITED STATES, SHALL, AT THE 
SAME TIME, HOLD AND EXERCISE ANT OFFICE WHATEVER 
IN THIS 6TATE." 



VOL. III. 



X X 



. \ 



/ 



SPEECH IN CONVENTION, 



ON 19* JANUARY, 1790. 



JLT has frequently been my lot to plead the cause of 
others; sometimes of individuals, sometimes of puUitk 
bodies,* oftener than once of the commonwealth of Penn- 
sylvania. It is now my lot to be under the bard neces- 
sity of pleading my o\yn» Tlutt commonwealth, whose 
cause I have pleaded — and pleaded Successfully — ^that 
commonwealth, in whose'service I have laboured faithfully 
— I defy even my enemies to refute the assertion— rthough, 
to myself, very unprofitably — ^that commonwealth, which 
I have served in times of safety and in times of dan- 
ger, dirough good report, ahd through bad report — ^that 
commonwealth, sir, if the present motion shall be adopt, 
ed, is about to strip me of the most valuable rights 
of citizenship. And this is to be done without any 
offence or cause of forfeiture on my part;. unless to 
have been highly honoured by the president and senate 
of the United States is, in her consideration,now become 



840 8#EECH DELIVERED IN Tl^E 

a crime, and to have accepted of the high honour is, in 
her eye, become a pause of forfeiture* 

Well, then, may I say, that I am now to plead my own 
cause. All the citizen is routed within me ; and I dis- 
semble neither my feelings nor my interest : for both my 
interest and my feelings as a citizen of Pennsylvania 
assure me, in a manner which I cannot mistake, but 
which, at the same time, I cannot express, that this 
cause is personally my own. As such, therefore, I shall 
openly and directly consider and plead it. I am afraid, 
however, that I shall acquit myself but awkwardly : the 
task is new and unfamiliar : the path before me liiave 
not hitherto trod. But a ray of consolation darts upon 
me. Though the cause is personally, it is n6t exclusive^ 
ly my own. I plead the cause likewise of some of the 
most distinguished citizens of Pennsylvania :^ I plead 
what will soon be the cause of others of her citizens 
equally distinguished i I plead what will continue, in 
future ages, to be the cause of her best, and these who 
ought to be her most favoured sons : I plead, sir, the 
cause of Pennsylvania herself: for Pennsylvania herself 
will certainly suffer, if she shall be deprived of the ser- 
vices of such of her citizens, as shall be best qualified 
for serving her. To deprive her of the services of such 
citizens is the evident tendency, the evident object, and 
the evident principle of the present motion : for such 
will be the citizens selected for the offices of the United 
States. 

But here, sir, I must beg not to be misunderstood. 
When I speak of the principle and object and tendency of 
the motion, I mean not to apply those e2q>ression8 to the 
principles, the views, or the wishes of its honourable 







GONYXNTION OF PENWSTtVAKlA. 341 

mover. Between the first and the last there mav be, and, 
I think, there probably is, a very considerable difference. 
In suggesting this, I pay not, to his {H-inciples, a com- 
pliment at the expense of his understanding ; for to the 
most enlightened mitid it is no disparagement to suppose, 
that, at first sight, it does not perceive all the distant 
bearings and relations and dependencies, which a motion, 
. especially one so extensive as this, may, on investigation, 
be found to have* 

The motion is in thes'e words : ^^ No member of con* 
gress from this state, nor any person holding or exercising 
any office of trust or profit under the United States^ 
ahai|||at )the same time, hold and exercise any office 
whatever in this state." It embraces all this broad and 
comprehensive position— «every person, wha is employed, 
or trusted by the United States, ought, for that reason, 
^ tobe incapacitated from ''bejng employed or trusted by 
^ the commonwealth of Pennsylvania, one of those states 
who compose the uniot|. This position, your adoptipn 
of the motion will establish in its fullest force and extent. 
It will becon^c a part^ not merely of the law, but of the 
constitution of the land; and will be a binding and 
perpetual rule for the future conduct of this common- 
wealth. This, sir, and nothing short' of this, is the 
true and necessary import of the question before you. 

It is not, that /some offices under the United States 
may, in point of propriety, or in point of policy, in the 
nature of their exercise, or in the place where they are 
exercised, be inconsistent with some offices under 
Pennsylvania. This, I will readily admit, may be the 
case under those different governments. It has been 



• K 



admitted td be the case in nn Inttance already agreed ts 
without opposition — ^I meaa that of the goveroour. This 
may often be the case with regard lx> different ofices even 
tttider the ftame govemraeiit. Of this there i^e many 
eicam^s in the system before you. They have eBcouii* 
tetad ao disapprobation from me or any^otber member* 

Again ! tbe position, in the motion before yon:, is nt^ 
that it would be inconsistent or impr<^r for the same 
person to hold, in any case, more offices than one* No, 
sir s this motion may be adopted, and yet one person may 
hjave twenty, different offices accnmulated upon bim niw 
der this very constitution. For the position is not, ^ that 
HO person, holding any one office, shall, at the^ipBe 
tinfte, bold any other offi<ce, under diis state :'' but the 
position is, ^ that every person, holding an office unjLer 
the United States, should be excluded from every office 
whatsoever in this state.'' For this reason, sir, all th^ 
numerous observations, which we heard an Saturday, 
from the honourable mover, concerning the profuse and 
improvident donations of offices, which the people, in a 
fit of fondness, might heap on the head of a popular 
favourite,' however they might suit otSier purposes, were 
evidently beside the purpose of the motion. Tlie motion^ 
though adopted, will not prevent, nor is k calculated to 
prevent, such thou^tiess and injudicious accumulations. 

• 

I have always flattered myself^ /^at the constitution 
of iAk United States would be a bond of union, and net 
A principle of inveterate alienage, far less of hostility^ 
between the Several states ; certainly and more particular- 
ly, between each of them and the United States. ^^ A 
more perfect union^* is decMred to be one end of liiat 






COMTKNTIOK OT PKlfNSTLVAKIA. 24$ 

constitution. That constitutioir, I beliave, was intended 
to be the centre of attraction for that ^^ more perfect 
union." Shall we convert that constitution, as far as it 
can depend on Pennsylvania-^fortunately for the union, 
we can convert it no farther-— into a principle of repul« 
sion? If that is the design of this committee; if that 
is an object, for the accompUsfament of which our con* 
stituents sent us here; the motion before you is well fitted 
for fulfilling that design ; it is well fitted for accomplish* 
)ng that object. Under the operation of this motion, if 
the govemment of the United States shall hereafter dis^i* 
(Ingttifth a citizen of Pennsylvania with an ^^ office of 
profit or trust ;" that government roust become, however 
reluctantly, the repulsive agent in destroying the better 
half of bis right of citizenship $ and, consequendy, of 
dimiiiishing, by the better half, his political connexion 
frith this commonwealth* 

This, sir, is no inflated ot exaggerated representation 
of the matter : the account is strictly and severely true« 
The right of citizenship consists in these two things ; 
1 « A rlfht to elect. % A right to be elected into office. 
Of the two, the last is certainly not the least valuable 
or important. Of the last I shall be deprived by 
youk* adoption of the motion before you* I call for 
the principles and reasons of deprivation* I demand^ 
tir**^for I have a right to demand--from the justice of 
this committee, that those principles and reasons be 
elearly shown and incontestably proved, before the sen** 
tenc^ of deprivation be passed against nie. I think I 
heard, on Saturday, an opinion mentioned as being de- 
eidedly formed. I trust that the expression was used 
inadtenentfy : I trust ^at the honourable members of 



r 



344 SPEECH DELIVERED IV THE 

this- committee will hear, and weigh, and consider, be* 
fore they decide. 

r 

Believe me, sir, the principle, more than any foreseen 
consequence, of disfranchisement wounds and alarms me. 
We are told in history, that a person, Whose inclination 
had never led him beyond the gates of Rome, sickened 
and died, when Augustus, in a wanton trick of bis abso- 
lute power, confined him within those very limits, beyond 
which he had never previously wished to go. 'Tis one 
thing, sir, to be without an office : 'tis a very different 
thing to be disqualified from holding an office, and- to 
wander about like, a person attainted and cut off from the 
community. The first is often the effect of choke : the 
last never. is; it is the result of dire necessity. The 
idea of disqualification is a most mortifying idea, when 
applied by one to himself: it is a most insulting idea^ 
when applied to him by others. And can you think, sir, 
that I would wish to become or continue the coogtant 
mark of mortification or insult? No, sir; I can, at least, 
comfort myself, that I will not be reduced to this situation* 
The motion of the honourable gentleman is not armed — 
fortunately itcannot be armed— ^with the sting of the edict 
of Augustus: it may prompt me to go ; but it cannot 
compel me to stay. I can cross the Delaware. In New 
Jersey, I shall be received as a citizen— a full citizen— 
of the state ; and, at the same time, may hold a dignified 
and important office under the United States. What I 
say concfpming New Jersey, I may say concerning New 
Hampshire, Massachussetts, Coimecticiit, New York^ 
Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina^ 
and Georgia. For none of those states, so far as I know 
or have been informed, view honourable employments 
nnder the national government through the inverted spe- 



/ 



CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA. 34r5 

culum of the motion, which presents them as causes of 
disqualification and disfranchisement. Nay, sir^ I believe 
I can go to Rhode Island, and be received there as more 
than a half citizen, if I choose it.; for I have not hc^ard, 
that that stsite, antifederal as it is, has passed an act of 
incapacity against the officers of the United States. 

But we are told, that the commonwealth of Virginia 
has observed a different conduct ; and has exhibited an 
example, which we are now solicited to imitate* I ^rish^ 
sir, to know if this favourite example forms a part of the 
constitution of Virginia. If h does not — and I presume 
it does not — I wish to see the law that has produced.it : 
I wish ^o examine that law : I wish to know th^ reason 
of that law : I wish to know the time vv^heny.and the occa- 
sion on which, that law was made : I wish to know. the 
temper and tho. national principles of the legislature, 
which mad^ that law. I have been informed, how cor- 
recdy I will not undertake to vouch) that an antifederal 
leader in Virginia, foiled by the convention of that com- 
monwealth in his opposition to the national government^ 
introduced into the legislature, and succeeded in fixing 
some stigma, as far as that legislature could fix a stigma^ 
upojgi the federal characters of that state. Perhaps, sir, 
my information is correct ; and this law may be the very 
thing. Perhaps, sir, it may have been the production of 
the convulsive throes of an antifederal fit. If so-^-^and I 
think the conjecture a probable one— ^so soon as the fit 
shall be over — and, I hope, it will be over so6n, if it is 
not over already— ^Virginia will remove its effects by con* 
siderately repealing the law, which it had precipitately 

> 

occasioned. 

VOL. III. YV 



346 tPtSCH DKLIVERED IN THE 

But shall we, sir, suffer ourselves to become infected 
with the transient, though violent disorder of a neigh- 
bouring state ? Shall we do more, sir ? — shall we inoculate 
this disorder to become a perpetual and incurable poiso^ 
in the very vitals of our constitution i I confess I did 
not expect to see the symptoms of this distemper reappear 
so soon in Pennsylvania, after all the successful efforts 
that have been made to expel them from her borders. 

It seems that I ought to be incapacitated froni enjoy • 
ing the confidence of this state, while I hold an office 
under the United States. And yet I may hold one office 
in this state, and not be incapacitated from holding twenty 
or thirty more. And yet I may hold an office under Nieir 
jer8ey,and not be incapacitated. I may bold an office under 
any other, and even under every other state in the Union, 
and not be incapacitated. I may hold an office under , 
France, under any other state in Europe, under any oth^ 
state in the world, and not be incapacitated. I inay hav^ 
held an office under Great Britain, and, under that office^ 
m^rhave acted against the United States and against this 
state, during aQ the late wari I may soil hold that very 
office, and not be incapacitated* But—the position occurs 
again— if I hold an office under the United States, I inust 
be incapacitated from any trust under PennaylvsUiia. 

Whence, 8ir?«-in the name of wonder— whence this 
principle of hostility— -this principle of hostility » operating 
solely and peculiarly— betweei^ this commonwealth and 
the United States ? Let it be explained : let us know its 
origin : let us know its nature : let Oa kn6w' its ^xtftht : 
let us know its effects. 

If diis principle exists, and ought to be provided 
against; it is surprising that no sach provision was made 



CONy^NTXON OT P£NKSYLyA»;iA. 347 

or recommended against it, by the, general convention, 
formeid of members from all the states in the Union— -a 
convention, ivhich, I believe, understood the interests of 
the Union and of all its parts. If it ought to be a part 
of our constitution that ^' no person, holding any office 
*^ under the United States, shall, at the same time, hold 
*^ any office in this state ;" it ought to have been a part of 
the constitution of the United States, that ^^ no person 
**^ holding any office under Pennsylvania, or any other 
*^ state in the Union, shall, at the same tinie, hold any 
^.^ office in the national governmenti'' But no such pkrt 
is to be found in that constitution. We may presume-— 
I suggest it with deference — ^we may presume, that the 
whole knew the proper connexion between itself and its 
parts ; and provided for the preservation, the strength, 
and the limits of that connexion, as well as one of the 
parts can know and provide for the preservation, the 
strength, and the limits of its connexion with the whole. 
But no such provision as this is made by those, who had 
the whole state of the Union before them: the inference 
is fair, that this provision is dictated, not by a general aitd 
comprehensive, but by a partial and contraicted view of 
the subject* 

Will the principle of this motion contribute to pre- 
serve or to strengthen the political connexion between the 
United States and the commonwealth of Pennsylvania? 
Will it not, on the other hand, contribute to weaken, to 
interrupt, or to dissplve it^ The principle of this motion^ 
sir, is a principle of polijUcal Alienage : I go farther*-it 
(qpnt^ns a declaration of political hostility by this corn- 
igonwealth against the United States. It declares that 
this;cqmn\on>f e^h ought not to trust or <employ any per« 
whom l^e Uinitcid States have thought wortliiy of 



348 SPEECH DEf.IVER£D IK THE 

tnist or employment. On what foundation can such a 
declaration rest? It can have no reasonable foundation^ 
unless the interests and views of the United States are, in 
their nature and tendency, hostile, to the interests and 
views of this commonwealth. Let it be shown wherein 
this hostility of views and interests consists. 

I have already admitted, that there are many instances^ 
in which offices under different govemihehts are incom- 
patible in point of propriety, or in point of policy, in the 
nature of their exercise, or in the place where they are 
exercised. I have admitted also, that an accumulation of 
offices may be very improper under the same government. 
But it has appeared, that the principle, the tendency, and 
the object of this motion are not to prevent any incompa* 
tibilities or improprieties of these kinds. 

On the other hand, there are many instances, in which 
different offices, not only under the same government, but 
even under different governments, may be held, not only 
with great propriety, but even with great advantage to the 
publick, by the same persons. Against the enjoyment of 
this publick advantage, the motion before you is levelled 
and directed. 

And yet, sir, our own experience has attested its happy 
effects. During the late war, we reaped solid benefits 
from the exertions and talents of officers*— in one instance^ 
of a very distinguished officer — hi the service of France, 
Would we have reaped those benefits, had France adopted, 
against the United States, the unfriendly principle, which 
is now recommended to a state, hitherto one of the most 
federal and one of the most affectionate in the Union ? 
Suppose the sovereign of those officers to have dedaied 



r^ 



CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA. 349 

tp them in the spirit of this motion — *^ the moment you 
** accept any of&ce under the United States, you shall be 
^^ disqualified, by that acceptance, from holding any office 
**in lily service,'* — ^what^would have been the conse* 
quence ? The United States would have been deprived of 
their military skill and assistance. But, happily for us, 
the king of France was not actuatc^d by the spirit of this 
motion : shall I risk the expression, that he was more 
federal ? ^ 

\ 

On how many sudden and unforeseen enlergencies may 
the services of a stated officer of the United States be 
useful, perhaps, in the opinion of the publick, necessary 
for this commonwealth ! On how many sudden and un- 
foreseen emergencies may the services of a stated officer 
of this commonwealth be useful, perhaps, in the opinion 
of the publick, necessary for the United States ? Why, 
in both cases, should the door of mutual, useful, neces- 
sary, and patriotick exertion be constitutionally shut? 
For this motion will operate both ways. If the officers 
of the United States are to be considered as aliens with 
regard to their capacity of holding offices under this com- 
monwealth : the officers of this commonwealth must be 
considered as aliens with regard to their capacity of hold- 
ing offices tinder the United States. 

\yhen I say, sir, that^ in both instances, they must 
be considered as aliens ; I use an expression much too 
soft^ for under both constitutions-^hat of the United 
States and that which we propose — aliens may be em- 
ployed in -many offices. This motion, if adopted, will, 
therefore, introduce, between the United States, and 
this state, as to offices, more than a state of alienage. I 
was justified iu saying, that thia motion contained a 



/ 



» 

inrindple find dedaratkm pf pplittical hostility, a$ to offices, 
betv^een this cooamonwealth and the United State. Be* 
fore the sentence of disfr^chisexaentfrom o^ce in Penn- 
sylvania he parsed, by the adoption of this motion, 
a£^inst the officer of the United States ; I again tlemand 
that it be. clearly Aown wherein the ]^inciple of political 
hostility t^etween the two^yeirnmentsc^isist^ 

I think it has been suggested, that unless the principle 
of this motion be introduced into the constitution^ the 
government of the United States may fic^uire, in Penn- 
sylvania, an influence dangerous to her counsels, danger- 
ous to her interests, and dangerous even to her existence. 
That government, it was supposed, might, by appointing 
to its offices the officers of this state, attach them to the 
Eieasures, the interests, and the counsels of the United 
States, in opposition to the measures, the interests, and 
the counsels of Pennsylvania. Like the motion, this 
reasoning in support of it b founded on an implied 
principle of hostility bettn^ieen the two governments. 
Before the committee subscribe to the reasoning, they 
will require that the principle of hostility be shown. 

But let us, for a moment, suppose it to ei^ist : let 
us suppose that the measures, and interests, and.cQunsels 
of the United States are in diametrical and inveterate 
Opposition to those of Pennsylvania: let us suppose, 
that^. in order to promote those adverse inter^ej^ts, to 
estatdish those adverse cQujaAek,.andto carry into effect 
tiKMie adverse .measures, the president and senate of .the 
. United Abates should cafi to their aid, ^nd asspqiate in 
tiheir.deaigiis, tbexifficers of PeDn^ylvspoiia ; woi^d kbe 
politick or. wise in PenAsyJyania to cooperate, in the 
.^QfttdBEectualsianner, .wi^>lbej»reai^Qt.axid.8C3D|ite for 



CONVENTION OF PENNtfTLVANIA, 351 V 

the accomplishment of their plans ? Could she "do this 
more effectually by any means, than* by detaching froiiri 
her all the officers of the state, whom the president 
and senate would wish to attach to them ? Could shfe 
detach them from het more effettually by any 'rtrfrans, 
than by disfranchising them from their offices, ^and by 
treating them asr aliefis, nay, Worse than sdiens ? Could 
she do this ttiore effectually by any meaiis, than l^y 
cutting asunder the stroligest tie's of political coilliexion^ 
and political iaffectioh between her and thein ? 

I believe, sir, you msiy hear, frorti som<^ ^tat6^, a 
series of reasoning; very opposite to that before men'' 
tioned: you may hear a train of refle'ctioil to the following 
purpose : What ! shall we part with the interests, with 
the affections, and with the services of otir citiiietiSy 
because they are csdied into the service 6{ the Uiiiteid 
States ? No. Let us retain their interests ; for their 
interests will be ours : let us retain theirWectibhsr for 
these, at least, may remain with iis: letiistei^in their 
services, as far as they shaU be ' cbnlpatifile-i— and, in 
many instances, they will be con<patiblc>^with their 
superiour duty to tlje' United' Stated. 

Whether this train of r^flktidn acad res^sdhihg'be juit 
and strong, I shaU not pretend to d^terniih^. I shall 
only observe, that, as far as I know, the conduct of eVery 
state in the union has been consonant to iti excepting 
.only that of the commonwealth of Virginia — and shall 
I, after somd time, be obliged to make the cruel addi- 
tion—and excepting likewise that of the commonwealtti 
of Pennsylvania r 

^ti's possibte^ sir, though I Wilt Hotf allow it to be 
probable, that t&is orud aidditioii idusth^'made. 



1 



352 SPEECH DEI^IVJSRED IN THE 

possibk) tboughi again,. I will not allow it to be probable, 
that Pennsylvania may become as infamous for her anti- 
federal, as she has hitherto been renowned for ber 
federal principles* 'Tis possible, though, still, I will 
not allow it to be probable, that she may hereafter be as 
much dishonoured by the littleness, as she has heretofore 
been admired for the liberality, of her politicks. Her 
counsek may take an inverted and diminishing turn. 
Those, sir, who cannot shine in a spacious sphere, will 
wish to draw some notice in a contracted one. Those, 
who cannot be distinguished by acting a part in an 
enlarged system, will endeavour to distinguish them- 
selves by acting as the little but principal puppets in a 
narf'ow and separated scene. Into such hands, sir, it is 
possible — ^though I once more enter my protest against 
the probability of the event, — ^that Pennsylvania, for her 
sins, may fall. 

If this very improbable, but very possible event 
should take place; then, indeed, the cruel addition, 
which I have already mentioned, must be made. Yet 
even dien, this cruel circumstance would carry with it, 
in some degree, its own alleviation. In such a circum<« 
stance, the pangs'of separation from Pennsylvania would 
become less severe. Even in such a circumstance, I 
hope one consolation might be constituticMially allowed 
me. On my way to the government of the United 
States, I might turn and look back from the opposite 
shore of the Delaware ; and though Pennsylvania should 
reject my faithful services, she might permit me, with 
a fluttering heart and feultering tongue, to wish her 
welL 

But, sir, I will not pursue the ooosideratioii of an 
event to . irreooncilable with the present genius and 



CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA 353 

principles of Pennsylvania* Is she jealous, bbc|iuse her 
sons are received into the arms of the United States? 
No, sir. Was she to open her lips upon this occasion, 
we* should hear the foUowpg, or some such as the fol- 
lowing, accents : " Though I cheerfully resign you to 
*' the servite of the Union, in which my own service 
'^ is, to many important purposes, included ; yet I 
** renounce not your affections ; nor do I abdicate my 
•' well founded claim t6 your duty. You may still be 
** of use to me ; and I retain my right to the exertioiis 
.** of your usefulness, whenever I shall call upon you on * 
** a proper occasion. In the mean time, employ your 
^^ ulmost efforts for the interest of the United States: 
** by doing this, you will essentially promote mine ; and 
•* you will be likewise better prepared, and better dis- 
*' |>osed for serving me, whenever I shall particularly 
** require your service." Such would be the language, 
such would be the sentiments, of our venerable political 
parent. Such, sir, without personification, and without an 
allegory, I believe to be literally and strictly the language 
and sentiments of a great majority of the people of this 
commonwealth. This language and these sentiments are 
in direct contradiction to the language and principlesi of 
the motion before you. To which will this comniittee 
pay the greatest regard ? 



VOL* III, ji % 



A CHARGE 



BBLITBRSD 



TO THE GRAND JURY 



IN THE 



CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES, 



FOR THE DISTRICT OF VmGnOA, 



» MAty 179U 



f -' 



; 



A CHARGE 

TO THE GRAND JURY 

IN THE 

CmeUIT COURT for the district op VIRGINIA-^ 



• G^NTtEMBN OF THE ORAND JURT| 

A O prevent crimes is the noblest end and aitti of cri- 
minal jurisprudence. To punish thciri^ is one of the 
means necessary for the accomplishtfient of this noble 
end and aim* The impunity of an offender eiicourages 
him to repeat his offences. The witnesses of bis impu- 
nity are tempted to become his disciples in his guilt, 
l^hese consideration* form the strongest — some view 
them as the sole argument for the infliction of punish- 
ments bv human laws. 

There arc^ in punishments, three qualities, which 
render thefn the fit preventives of crimes. The first 
is their moderation. The second is their speediness* 
The third is their certaititj% 

We tifc told by some writers, that the number df 
f rimes is un^u^itionaMy dimitrished by the severity of 



> 



558 A CHARGE TO TH£ GRAND JURY ' 

• 

punishments. If we inspect the greatest part of the cri- 
minal codes ; tfa^ir unwieldy bulk and their ensanguined 
hue will force us to acknowledge, that this opinion may 
plead, in its favour, a very high antiquity, and a very ^x« 
tensive reception. On accurate and unbiassed eumination^ 
however, it will appear to be an opinion unfounded and 
pernicious, inconsistent with the principles of our nature, 
and^ by a necessary consequence, wjth those of wifte and 
good government. 

) 

So far as any sentiment of generous sympathy is su£> 
fered, by a merciless code, to remain among the citizens, 
their abhorrence of crimes is, by the barbarous exhibi* 
tions of human agony, sunk in their commi^ration of 
criminals. These barbarous exhibitions are productive 
of another bad eiFect— -a latent and gradual, but a poweiv 
ful, because a natural, aversion to the laws. Caii laws, 
vhich are a natural anda just object of aversion, receive 
a cheerful obedience, or secure a regular and uniform 
execution i The expectation is forbidden by &ome. of the 
strongest principles in the human frame* Such laws, 
while they excite the compassion of society for thos(e who 
suffer, rouse its indignation against those who are active 
in the steps preparatory to their sufferings. 

We may easily conjecture the result of those combined 
emotions, operating vigorously in concert. The criminal 
wiH, probably, be dismissed without prosecution bjr 
those whom he ha& injured. If prosecuted and tried, 
the jury wiU probably fi^d, or think the}'^ find, somie 
decent ground, on which they may be justified, or at 
least excused, in giving a verdict of acquittal. If con* 
dieted, the judges will, with avidity, receive and support 
every, the nicest excepticm, to the proceedings agaiatt 



IH THE CIRCUIT COURT, ' 35» 

% 

him ; and, if all other things should fail, wHl have i^* 
course to the last expedient within their reach for ex- 
empting him from rigorous punishment — ^that of recom- 
mending him to the mercy of the pardoning power. In 
this manner, the acerbity of punishment deadens the 
execution of the law. 

The criminal, pardoned, repeats the crime, under 
the expectation that the impunity also will be re« 
peated. The habits of vice and depravity are gradually 
formed within him. Those habits acquire, by exercise^ 
continued accedsions of strength and invetieracy* In 
the progress of hid career, he is led to engage in some 
desperate attempt. From one desperate attempt he bold* 
ly proceeds to another, till, at last, he necessarily becomes 
the victim of that preposterous rigour, which repeated 
impunity had taught him to despise,^ because it had per- 
Buaded him that he might always escape. 

. When, on ^he other hand, punishments are moderate 
and niild, every one will, from a sense of interest and 
of«duty, take his prbper part in detecting, in exposing, 
in trying, and in passing sentence on crimes. ' The con- 
sequence will be, that ctiminals will seldom elude the 
vigilance, or baffle the energy, of publick justice. 

True it is, that, on some emergencies., excesses of 
a temporary nature may receive a sudden xheck from 
rigorous penalties: but their continuance and their fre- 
quency introduce and .diffuse a hardened insensibility 
among the citizens ; and this insensibility, in its turn, 
gives occasion or pretence to the farther extension and 
multiplication of those penalties. Thus one degree of 
severity opens and smooths the way for another, till, at 



960 A CRAROI TO TH£ GRAKX) JURT 

lengthy under the specious appearance of necessary jus^* 
tice, a system of cruelty is established by lavr. 

'Sucb/a system is calculated tQ eradicate all the manly 
sentiments of the soul, and to substitute^ in their place, 
dbpositlons of the most depraved and. degrading kind* 
It is the psurent of pusillanimity. . A r.ation broke to 
cruel punishments becomes dastardly and contemptible. 
For, in nations, as well as individuals, cruelty is always 
attended 1^ cowardice. It is the parent of slav^ry^ In 
every government, we find the genius of freedom de« 
pressed in proportion to the sanguinary spirit of the 
laws* It is hostilp tp the prosperity of nation^, as well 
as to the dignity and virtue of. mezu The laws, which 
Draco framed for Athens, ^ are 4aid emphatically 
to have been written in blood. What did they.produce ? 
All aggravation of those very^ calamities) which they 
were intended to remove. A scene of the greatest and 
most complicated distress was accordingly exhibited by 
the miserable Atheniatis, till they found relief in the 
wisdom and moderation of Solon^^ It is a standing oh* 
servation in China<--and China has enjoyed; a very Igng / 
experience-^tbat in prop(^rtion as the punishments of 
criminals are increased, the empire S4)proaches to a new 
revolution. The Porcian law {tt'ovided, that no citizen 
of Rome should be exposed to a sent<;nce of death* 
Under the, Porpiaa law, the commonwealth grew and 
.flourished. Severe punishments were established by the 
emperours. Under the emperours, llome declined and 
felL 

The principles both of utility and of justice require, 
that the commission .of a crime should be IqUm^. bp « 
«>cpiy j i afl i ctten rf its PiMMrfu»eott 



IN THE CIRCUIT CpURT. S61 

.« 

The ftesociation of ideas has vast power over the 
sentiments, the passions, and the conduct of men* When 
a penalty inarches close in the rear of the offence,, against 
which it is denounced ; an association^ strong and strikingi 
is produced between them : and they are viewed in the 
inseparable relation of cause and effect. When, on the 
contrary, the punishment is procrastinated to a remote 
period ; this connexion is. considered as weak and pre- 
carious ; and the execution of the law is beheld an^ 
suffered as a detached instance o^ severity, warranted by 
no cogent reason, and springing from no laudable motive* 

It is just, as well as useful, that the pvuxiahm^il 
'should be inflicted soon after the commission of the 
crime. It shbul^ never be forg;otten, that impri^ofimenjt, 
though often necessary fof th^ safe custody of the per- 
son accused, is, nevertheless," in itself, a punishment^— 
a punishment galling to some of the finest feelings of 
the heart— a punishment too, which, since it precedes 
' cbnviction, inay be as ^ undeserved as it is distressing. 
But imprisonment is not the only penalty, which an ac- 
cused person undergoes before his trial. He undergoes 
also the corrodiAg torment of suspense— the keenest 

• agoiiy, perhaps, which falls to the lot of suffering, hum$- 
siiity. This agony^s by no nieans to be estimated by 
the real probability or danger of conviction : it bears a 
compound proportion .to the delicacy of sentiment and 

• the strength of imagination possessed by him, who if 
4oomed to become its prey. 

These observations show, that those accused of crimes 
should be speedily tried, and that those convicted of 
them should be speedily punished. But with regavd to 
this, as with regard to almost every other subject, there 

VOL. III. 3 A 



56a A CHARGE TO THE GRAND JURY 

is an extreme on one hand as well as on the other; and the 
extremes on each hand should beavoided with equal care. 
In some cases, at some times, and under some circum* 
stance's, a delay of the trial and of the punishment, 
instead of being hurtful or pernicious, may, in the 
highest degree,^ be salutary and beneficial, both to the 
publick, and to him who is accused or convicted* 

Prejudices may naturally arise, or may be artfully 
fomented, against the crime, or against tHe man who is 
charged with having committed it. A delay sh6uld be 
allowed, that those prejudices may subside, and that 
neither jurors nor judges may, at the trial, act under the 
fascinating impression of sentiments conceived before, 
the evidence is heard. Instead' of the calm influence of 
those which should be only its impartial and deliberate 
result. A sufficient time should be given to preparie the 
prosecution on the part of the state, and the defence of 
it on th6 part of the prisoner. This time must vary 
according to different persons, different crimes, and dif- 
ferent situations. - '" ► . 

After convictiop', the punishment assigned to an infe- 
riour offence should be indicted with much expedition. 
This will strengthen the useful association between them; 
one appearing as the immediate and unavoidable conse- 
quence of the other, , When a sentence of death is pro- 
nounced, such an interval should be permitted to elapse 
before its execution as will render the language of poli- 
tical 'expediency consonant to die language of religion. 

Under these qualifications, the speedy punishment of 
crimes should form a part in every system of criminal 
jurisprudence. 



IN TpE CIRCUIT. COURT. 363 

Bat ^ the certainty of punishments is that quality, 
ivhich is of the greatest importance in order to consti- 
tute them fit preventives of cringes. This quality is, 
in its operation, most merciful as well as most powerful* 
When a criminal determines on the commission of a 
crime, he is no't so much influenced by the lenity of the 
punishment, as by the expectation that, in some way or 
other, he may be fortunate enough to avoid it. This is 
particularly the case with him, when this expectation is 
cherished hy, examples or by experience of impunity. 
It was the saying- of Solon, that he had completed his 
system of laws by the combined energy of justice and 
strength. By this expression he meant tp. denote, that 
laws, of themselves, would be of very little service?, 
unless they were .enforced by a faithful and an^eifectual 
execution of diem. The strict execution of every crimi" 
luz/law is the dictate of humanity as well ^ of wisdom* 

This strict execution is greatly promoted by accuracy 
in the publick police, by vigilance and activity in the 
ministerial officers of justice, by a prompt and regular 
communication of intelligence, and by a proper distribu- 
tion of rewards for the discovery and apprehension of 
criminals. 

' Among all the plans and establishments, however, 
which have been devised for securing the wise and uni- 
form execution of the criminal laws, the institution of 
grand juries holds the most distinguished pl,ace. This 
institution is, at least in the present times, the peculiar 
boast of the common law. The era of itsr commence- 
ment, and the particulars attending its gradual progress 
and improvement, are cpnceaied behind the thick veil of 
a. very remote antiq)iit)U Bat one thing concerning it ig 



364 A CHARGE TO THE GKAMD JURY 

certaift. In the annals of the world , there is not found 
another institution so well adapted ^for ^avoiding all the 
inconveniences and abuses, which would otherwise afise 
from malice, from rigour, from negligence, or from par- 
tiality in thfe prosecution of crimes; 

Among the Romans, any one of the citize«is{ as weB 
as the person more immediately injured, might, prose- 
cute a publick offence. This practice produced ntischiefs 
very great, and of very opposite kiodi^. Prosecutions 
Were conducted, on some occasions, from motives of 
raneour and revenge. On other occasions, they were 
undertaken by a friend, perhaps a cpnfederate of the 
eriminal, with a view to ensure his impunity. 

^ In several of the feudal nations, the judge himself 
wsis originaMy the prosecutor. The gro^s imi»*opriety 
of Such a ifgulation appears at the first view. The 
prosecutor is a party: can tke same person be both a 
party and a judge f To remove the grievances, to which 
this regulation gave birth, a publick prosecutor wdi 
appointed to manage the judicial business of' the crolrn^ 
or of the community, before jthe proper tribunes* 

> But that crimes may be prosecuted duly and regularly^ 
it is necessary that impartial and authentick information 
df their existence sho^d be obtained. , To furnish such 
information is the great object of the institution of^rsmd 
juries. . * 

Sometimjes the grand jury brinj; forward iiccttsatiotit 
of their own proper motion : sometimes they proceed 
upt>n particular charge formally laid before thetti by tte 
jmblick prosetuton These two m^odiefr ttre dint&glikiitil 



* 

by the well knpwn appellatiptis of presentment vind mditt* 
merit. In both, it is the right, and it is the duty of a 
grand jury, to inquire diligently, and to present truly, . 

It is your immediate business, gexitlemeti^ to make 
inquiries and give official information concerning such 
crimes and offetices ass.may have been committed against 
the constitution and laws of the United States, and are 
cognizable by this circuit court held for the district of 
Virginia in the middle circuit. To assist you in those in- 
quiries, I'shsdl describe to you the jurisdiction^ which, in 
criminal matters, is vested in the circuit courts ; 2m^ I 
fihail give you a very plain atid concise account of the 
crimes and offences known to the constitution and law« 
of the United Stktes, and of the punishments denoui^ced 
agalridt those crimes, and offences. 

The circuit courts have ^^c/ww^ Jurisdiction of all 
crimes and offences, which are cognizable utoder the 
authority of the United States j except where it is or 
shall be provided otherwise Vy law. Tliey have alsi) 
toncutreM jurisdiction with the district courts, of the 
crimes and oilences, wEich are cognizable in tho^e 
courts * The crimes and offences^ af which the district 
courts hav5 jurisdiction, and ofl which, consequently^ 
the circuit Courts h^ve cbncurrent jurisdiction, are all 
Buch as ate cognizable under the authority of the United 
States, provided they be committed withih the respec- 
tive districts, or on the high seas ; and provided they 
be those on which no other punishment than a fine not 
exceeding one hundred dollars, imprisonment not exceed* 

a Laws U. S. Cong. I. sess. 1. c 20. s. 11. 



366 A CHARGE TO THE ORAKD JUflY 

ing six months, or whipping t^ot exceeding thirty airipes 
is to be inflicted*^ 

Treason generally occupies the fir^t place in the long 
catalogue of crimes.. On this'^subject, so interesting to 
the publick and to the citizens, a very important improve- 

r 

ment has been ingrafted by the constitution of the United 
States. 

If the description of treason be vague and indeter- 
minate under any government ; this alone will be a suffi. 
ciexit cause why that government should degenerate into 
tyranny.' If the denomination and the p^snalties of treSson 
be conamunicated to offences of a different and inferipur 
kind; the horrour, which would otherwise attend this 
complicated crime, is weakened by the association with 
&ings, to which, in truth, it has neither relation nor 
resemblance. * 

In the reign of Henry the eighth, a law was m£ide in £a« 
gland by which any one^ who predicted the death of the 
king, was declared guilty af treason. Arbitrary power, on 
some occasions, recoils upon those who exert it. When 
this capricious and tyrannic^ prince lay on his death 
bed, his physicians would not inform him, oi his danger, 
because they would not incur the penalties of his law. 
We are tqld by the English parliament itself, that, at 
another period, so many " pains of treason were ordained 
by statute, that nO' man knew how to behave himself, to 
do, spes^k, or say, for doubt of such pains." 

y 

^ Laws U. S« Con. 1. less. 1. c. SO. s. 9. 



IN THE CIRCUIT COURT. 367 

Under our national government^ we. have not only a 
legaV^ bift a constitutional security against arbitrary and 
constructive treasons* 

1. Under that government, treason against the United 
States can be ^committed oniy by levying war against 
them, or by adhering to their enemies, giving them aid 
and comforU « 

2. Misprision of treason consists in knowing the Com* 
mission of treason, and not disclosing it, as soon as may 
be, to the president or some one of the judges of thd 
United States, or to the first executive magistrate or some 
one of the judges or justifies of a particular state. 



d 



( f 



Other crimes and offences against the United States 
may be comj^rised lindcr the following enumeration.—- 
,3* Wilful murder^ committed in any place under the ex- 
clusive jurisdiction of the United States,^ or upon the 
high seas^ or in any river, haveii^ basin or bay not withii^ 
the jurisdiction of any particular state. * 4. Manslaughter 
committed in 'any place under the exclusive jurisdiction 
of the United States, « or upon the high seas. ^ 5. Rob- 
bery committed upon the high seas^ pr in any river, haven 
or ba3rnot within the jurisdiction of any particular state. ^ 
6. The piratical and felonious running away with any 
vesseV or with any goods to the value of fifty dollars, or 
yielding up such vessel voluntarily to any pirate, by any 
captain or mariner of such vessel.^ 7. Th^ laying of vio- 

c Con. U. S. art 3. s. 3. ^ Laws U.S. Coa.1. se8s.3. c 9. s. 2. 
« Laws U.S. con. 1. sess. 2. c 9, s.3. ^ Id s. 8. c Id. s. T. ' 
^Id.s.12. ild.8.8. Jidibid 



5#S A Charge to thz grand jury 

tent hands, hy a Beaman, upon his comtnatider, in order to 
hinder his fighting in defence of hili ship or goods com- 
mitted to his trust. ^ 8. The making of a revolt in a ship 
by any seaman. * 9. Piracy or robbery (as specified in 
the law) or any act of hostility against the United States 
or a cki^n thi^eof, comn^itted by any citizen lipon the 
high seas, on pretence of authority from any persoit, or 
tinder coloui" of a commission from a foreign pruuie or 
state.™ 10. Confederacy with pirates. ^ 11.. The false 
making, altering, forging, or eountetfeititig of any certi- 
ficate, indent, or other publick security of -the United 
States. • 12. The causing or procuring of aay certificate, 
* kident» (Jr other publidk security of the United States to 
be falsely' made, altered, forged, or counterfeited. ^ 13» 
Acting or assisting willingly in the false making, altering^ 
forging, or counterfeititig of atiy^iudi certificate, indent, 
or other publick security. * 14. The uttering, putting 
off, or offering, i4i payment or for' saje^ of any s\ich false, 
forged, altered, or counterfeited 'Certificate, indent, or 
other publick security, with intention to defraud any per- 
•ton, and with knowledge that the same is &lse, altered^ 
forged, or counterfeited. *" 15. The causing bf any such 
false, forged, altered, or counterfeited certificate, indent, 
or other publick security to he mttered, put oflF, or offered, 
in payment 6r^ for sale, with the kno^wledge and ittention 
^already mentioned.* 16. The getting atKrberty by force, 
and the rescuing of any person, convicted of a capital 
crime, or, before conviction, committed fot a capital 
crime, or committed for or convicted of any oth^r offence. 

fc Laws U. S. con. 1. sess. 3. c. 9. s. 8. i Id. iMd. "* Id. s. 9. 
• Id. s. 13. ^ Id.s. 14. P Id. ibid. « Id. ibid. '• Id. ibid. 
> Idibid. t Id.8.33, 



in THE CIRCUIT COURT. S6t 

i7» Misprision of felony, which consists in knowing the 
commission of wilful murder or other felony upon the 
high seas, or within any fort, arsenal, dock yard, maga** 
sine, or other place or district of country under the sole 
and exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, and not 
.disclosing it as soon as may be to some one of the judges 
or other person in civil or military authority under the 
United States. ^ IB. The cutting off of the ear, the cut* 
ting out or disabling of the tongue, the putting out of an 
eye, the slitting of the nose, the cutting off of the hose or 
a lip, the cutting off or disabling of any limb or member 
of any person, unlawfully, on purpose and pf malice afore* 
thought, and with intention, in so doing, to mai^ or dis* * 
figure such person : provided these crimes be committed 
in any place under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United 
States, or upon the high seas, in any vessel belonging to 
the United States or to any citizen of the United States/ 
19. Perjury committed .wilfully and corruptly on oath or 
affirmation in any suit or matter before any court, or in 
any dejiosition taken pursuant to a law, of the United 
States* ^ 20. The procuring of any person to commit 
corrupt and wilful perjury in any of the cases just men** 
tioned. * 31. The giving^ directly or indirectly, of any 
sum of money, or any other bribe, present, or reward, or 
any proinise, contract, obligation, or security for the pay- 
ment or delivery of any money, present, or reward, or 
any other thing, to procure the opinion, judgment, or 
decree of any judge of the United States in any suit or 
matter depending before him. ^ 22. The accepting by 
any judge of any such sum f>f money, bribe, present, 

• 

» LawsU.&con. l.sess. 3.C 9.8.6. ▼Ids. 13. ^ Id. 8.18. 
» Id. ib. y Id. 8. 21. 

VOL. III. 3 B 



SfO A CHARCE to TBE grand J0RT 

reward, promise, contract, obligation, or 8ecurit7«* 22. 
Oppression or extortion by any supervisor or officer of 
inspection, in the execution of his office* * 24. The land- 
ing, in any place within the limits of the United States^ 
of goods entered for exportation, with a view to draw 
back the dirties. ^ 25. The resisting-or impeding of any 
officer of the customs^, or any person assisting him, in the 
execution of his duty. ^ 26. The resisting or opposing, 
knowingly and wilfully, of any officer of the United States 
in serving or attempting to serye ptpcess of any court of 
the United States : and the assaulting, beating, or wound- 
ing of any officer, or other person duly authorized^ in 
serving or attempting to serve such process. ^ 27. The 
felonious stealing, taking away, altering, falsifying, or 
otherwise avoidipg of any record, writ, process, or other 
proceeding in any court of the United States, by means 
whereof any judgment shall not take effect, or shall be 
reversed or made void. ^ 28. . The acknowledging or 
procuring to be acknowledged, in any court of the United 
States, of any recognizance, bail, or judgment, in the 
name of any person not privy or consenting to it. There 
is an exception with regard to attomies duly admitted.^ 
. 29. Taking and carrying away, with an intent to steal or 
purloin the personal goods of another, upon tl|e high seaS) 
or in any place within the exclusive jurisdiction of the 
United States. ^ 30. The embezzling, purloining, or 
conveying away of any victuals provided for any soldiers, 
gunners, marines, or pioneers, or of any arms, ordnance, 

' Laws U. S. con. 1. setl. 2.^c. 9. & 21. ^ Id. sess. S. c. 15. s. 39. 
^ Id. sess. 2. c. 35. s. 59. < Id. sess. 3. c 35. s. 59. 

^ Id. sess. 3. c.9. s. 33. « Id. sess. 3. c 9.S. 15. ^ Id. &h<L 
s Id. sess. 3. c. 9. s. 1^. 



IN THE CIRCUIT COltRT. 371 

munition, shot, powder, or habiliments of war,,belonging 
to the United States, by any person having the charge or 
custody thereof; provided such embezzling, purloining, 
or carrying away be for lucre, or willingly, advisedly and 
of purpose to impede the seWice of the United States. ^ 
31. The suing forth, or prosecuting, or executing of any 
writ or pfoccss, by which the person of any publick foreign 
minister, received as such by the president of the United 
States, or any domestick or domestick servant of any such 
minister, may be arrested or imprisoned, or Ms goods 
seized. ^ 32* The violation of any safe conduct or pass- 
port duly obtained under the authority of the United 
Stated. ^ 33. The assaulting, striking, wounding, impri- 
soning,- or, in any othe^ manner, infracting the laws of 
nations by offering violence to the person of a publick 
minister. ^ 

In the foregoing catalogue, murder, manslaughter, 
robbery, piracy, forgery, perjury, bribery, and extortion 
are mentioned as crimes and offences ; but they are neither 
defined nor described. For this reason, we must refer 
to some preexisting law for their defit^ition or description. 
To what preexisting law should this reference be made ? 

This is a question of immense importance and extent* 
it must receive an answer \ but I cannot, in this address, 
assign my^reasons for the answer which I am to give — ^The 
reference should be made to the common law. 

To the common law, then, let us resort for the defi- 
Bition or description of the crimes and offences, which, 

> LawsU. St con« 1. sess.3. c9. 9, 16. i I(i s. 35. 36. 

j Id. 8, 28. I'Icllbia. 



372 A CHARGE TO THE GRAND JURY 

in the laws of the United States^ have been named, ba 
have not been described or defined. You will, in this 
manner, gentlemen, be furnished with a legal standard^ 
hj the judicious application of which you may ascertain^ 
with precision, the true nature and qualities of such facts 
and transactions as shall be come the objects of your consi- 
deration and research* 

In outlaw books, murder is thus described : it is when 
a person, of sound memory and of the age of discretion, 
unlawfully killeth any reasonable creature with malice 
^forethought, express or implied. Manslaughter is de- 
scribed as*-^the unlawful killing of another, without ma«> 

r 

lice, either express or implied. The distinction strongly 
marked between murder and manslaughter is, that the 
former is committed with, the latter, without malice afore* 
thought* It is essential, therefore, to know clearly and 
accurately the true and legal import of this characteristick 
distinction* 

There is a very considerable difference between that 
sense, which is conveyed by the expression, malice, in 
common language, and that, to which the term is s^pro.^ 
priated by the law. In common language, it is most 
frequently used to denote a sentiment or passion of strong 
malevolence to a particular person ; or a settled anger and 
desire of revenge in one person against another* In law, 
it means the dictate of a wicked and malignant heart ; 
of a depraved, perverse, and incorrigible disposition. 
Agreeably to this last meaning, many of the cases, which 
are arranged under the head of implied malice, will be 
found to turn upon this single point; that the fact has 
been attended with such cireumstaiices««*particularly the 
circumstances of deliberati<ni and cruelty coDcuiiiog^-*4V 



IK THE CIUCUIT COURT, 573 

betr9;y the plain indications and" genuine symptoms of a 
mind grievously depraved, and acting from motive* 
highly criminal ; of a heart regj^rdless of social duty, 
and fatally bent upon mischief. .This is fhe tri^e notioa 
of tnalice in the legal sense of the word. The mischievous 
aad vindictive spirit denoted1:)y it muat always be col- 
lected and inferred from the eircumatances if the trans- 
action^ On the circumstances of the transaction, the 
closest attention should, for this reason, be bestowed. 
Every circumstance may weigh something in the scale 
of justice. 

\ 

. Robbery is a felonious and violent taking, from the 
person of another, of money or goods to any value, put* 
ting him in fear. From tlus definition it appears, that 
to constitute a ro^bbery, the three foUowing ingredients 
are indispensable. 1. A felonious intention, or anitmu 
Jitrandi^ 2. Some degree of violence ashd putting itt 
fear. 3. A taking from the person of another. Upon 
each of these three points there is much klurned dis« 
quisition in the books cff the lav. 

Piracy is robbery and depredation upon the high aeas.^ 
The word piffate^ says my Lord Coke, ^ in Latin piratOy 
is derived from the Greek word ^tu^mtnty which is again 
fetched from fm^i^ a transeundo mari^ or roving upon 
the sea ; and, therefore, in English, a pirate is called a 
rover or robber upon the sea. 

Pimcy is a crime against the universal law of society : 
a iHrate is h^sti^ humani generisy an enemy of die whole 
human raee. By declaring war against all mankind^ he 

• 



3/4 A CHARGE TO TH£ GRAND JURt 

has laid all mankind under the necessity of declaring 
war against him. He has renounced the benefits and 
protection of government and society : he has abandoned 
himself to a> savage state of nature* The consequence 
is, that, by the laws of selfdefence, every community 
has a right to inflict upon Him that punishment, which, 
in a state of nature, every individual would be entitled to 
inflict for any invasion of his person or personal property. 

" If any perion^^ says a law of the United States, 
^^ shall commit, upon the high seas, or in any river, 
haven, basin, or bay, out of the jurisdiction of any 
particular state, murder^ or robbery ^ or any other olBence, 
which, if committed within the body of a county^ would, 
by the laws of the United States, be {Punishable with 
death ; every such oifender shall be deemed, taken, and 
adjudged to be a pirate and feiotij and being thereof 
convicted, shall suffer death." "^ 

Placed in the high and responsible oflice of a judge 
of the United States, I feel myself under an official oblir 
gation to state some doubts, which arise in my mind 
upon this part of the law. Impressed, at I ought to be, 
both as a citizen ^nd a judge, with the strdngest regard 
for the legislative authority of the United States, I pro- 
pose those doubt3 most respectfully, and with the greatest 
degree of diffidence. 

Piracy, as we have seen, is a crime against the univer* 
sal law of society. By that law, it may be punished by 
every community. But the description of piracy, ac- 
cording to thai law, is a robbery and depredation on the 

n Laws U. & 1, Q0B.2. sess.c 9. s. 6* 






IN THE CIRCUIT COURT. * 375 

high seas. Is a murder j committed upon the high seas, 
a piracy within the description of that law? ^^ If a 
pirate, at sea,i^ assault a ship, but, by force, is prevented 
entering her ; and, in the attempt^ the pirate iiil- a 
person in the other ship ; they are all principals in such 
a murder, if the common law have jurisdiction of the 
offence ; but by the law maritime, if the parties be known, 
they only who gave the wound shall be principals, and 
the rest, accessories^^ From this authority and the 
foregoing description of piracy, taken jointly into our 
consideration, we might, perhaps, be naturally led to 
infer, 1. That^a murder perpetrated in the attempt to 
commit a piracy, is not a piracy. 2. That this crime 
perpetrated in sitch an attempt, i^i by the maritime law 
to be tried and punished as a murder, in which those, 
who all attempted the piracy, shall be considered as cri* 
minal in different degrees, according to the part, which 
they severally acted with regard to the homicide. 

The maritime law, is not the law of any particular 
country : it is the general law of nations. " Non erit 
alia lex Romab, alia Athenis \ alia nunc, alia posthac ; 
sed et apud omnes gentes et omni tempore una eadem« 
que lex obtinebit.'* ^ 

The law of nations has its -foundation in the princi- 
ples of natural law, applied to states ; and in voluntary 
institutions, arising from custom or convention. This 
law is universal in its authority over the civilized part 
of the world ; and is supported by the consideration of 
its general utility, as well as that of its obligatory force. 
This universal system has always been most liberally 

B|ilo]loy.c4.s»13. - •S.Burr.SSr. 



976 A CHARG£ TO THE^ GftANI^ JURT 

recognized in that countiy, from which we derive the 
boasted inheritance of the combion law. According to 
the clear opinion declared hj the great Lord Chancellor 
Talbot, the law of nations is, in itsjull extent^ a |>art of 
the law of England. ' 

True it is, that, so far as the law of nations is voiun- 
tary or positive^ it may be altered by the municipal legis* 
lature of any state, in cases affecting only its own citizens. 
True it is also, that, by a treaty, the voluntary or posi- 
tive law of nations may be altered so far as the alteration 
shall affect only the contracting parties. But equally true 
it is, that no state or states can, by treaties or municipal 
laws, alter or abrogate the law of nations any farther. 
This they can no more do, than a citizen can, by his 
single determination) or two citizens can, by a private 
contract between them, alter or abrogate the laws of the 
community, in which they reside. 

Now the doubts, to which I have alluded, appear 
directly before us. Is a person^ not a citizen of the 
United States, who shall commit a murder upon the 
high seas, liable, under this laWj to be deemed, taken 
and adjudged to be ^pirate and felon, and, as suchj to 
suffer death ? This question may be divided into two 
subordinate ones. 1. Was it the intention of the legis- 
lature, that this law should extend, in its operation, to 
persons not citizens of the United States ? In the very 
next section, the phrase is altered, and instead of saying, 
V any person shall commit. It is said, if any diizen 
shall commit any piracy. Sec . Shall the constructioii be, 
that the legislature mean the jame thing, when they 

»l.Bsnr.l48L 



IN THE CIRCUIT COURT. 37f 

use expressions so very different ? 2. On the supposition, 
that the law was designed to extend, in its operation, to 
persons not citizens of the United Stages ; can this design 
be carried into effect, consistently with the predominant 
authority of the law of nations, and of the universal law 
of society? 

The case may very probably happen, and come before 
a grand jury for their ofHcial investigation. It was pro- 
per to suggest my doubts concerning it. I hope I have 
suggested them in the manner which I proposed to 
myself. 

I return to the definitions and descriptions given, by 
the common law, of the crimes and offences mentioned, 
but not described or defined, in the laws of the United 
States. ... 

To forge, says my Lord Coke, is metaphorically 
taken from the smith, who beateth upon his auvil, and 
forgeth what fashion or shape he will. The offence is 
called crimen falsi ; the crime .of falsehood ; and the 
offender, fakarius^ a falsifier. And this is properly 
taken when the act is done in the name of another pcrscTn. ^ 
Withregard, however, to this last' part of the descrip- 
tion of forgery, it has been since adjudged repeatedly 
and very solemnly to be too narrow. It expresses, indeed, 
the most obvious meaning of the word, and comprehends 
that species of forgery which is most commonly practi- • 
sed ; but there are other species, which will not come 
within the letter of that description. An alteration in 
the name or quantity of land conveyed, or iiji the sum of 

^ 3. Ins. 169. 
▼OL. III. 3 G 



ZT8 A CHARGE TO THE GRAND JURY 

money secured, is of this kind, and comes within the 
legal notion of forgery. 

Wilful and corfupt perjury is a crime committed^ 
when a lawful oath is administered, in some judicial 
proceeding, hy one who has authprity, to a person who 
swears absolutely and falsely, in a matter nsaterial to the 
issue or cause in question. 

^^ An. oath,'' says my Lord Coke, ^^ is so sacred, and s0 
deeply concerns the consciences of men, that it cannot 
be administered to any one, unless it be allowed by the 
commofi law, or by act of parliament ; nor by any one, 
who has not Authority by common law, or by act of par- 
liament: neither can any oath, allowed by the common 
law, or by actof pariiament, be altered, unless by act of 
parliament." ' For these reasons, it is much to be doubted 
whether any magistrate is justifiable in administering 
voluntary affidavits unsupported, by the authority of law* 
It is more than possible, that, by such idle oaths, a 
man may frequently incur the guilt, though he evade 
the temporal penalties of perjury* 

It is a part of the foregoing definition of perjury, 
that it must be when the person swears absolutely. In 
addition to this, it has been said, that the oath must 
be direct J and not, as the deponent thinks, or remembers, 
or believes.* This doctrine has, however, been lately 
questioned, and, it seems, on solid principles. When a 
man swears, that he believes lyhat, in truth, he does not 
believe, he pronounces a falsehood as much as when 
he swears absolutely, that a thing is true, which he knows 

' S. Ins. 16S. « Id. 165. 1. Haw. 17$. 



/ 

/ 



IN, THE CIRCUIT COURT. ^ 379 

-not to be true. My Lord Chief Justice Dc <lrey, in 
a late case, saidy that it was a mistake, which mankind 
had fallen into, that a person could not be convicted of 
perjury for deposing on oath, according to his belief. ' 
It is certainly true, says my Lord Mansfield, that a 
loan n^ay be indicted for perjury, in swearing that he 
believes a fapt to be true, which he must know to be 
false. ° 

Bribery is when ^ judge, or other person concerned 
hxL the administration of justice, takes any undue reward 
to. influence his behaviour in office. He who offers or 
gives, as well as he who receives this undue reward, is 
.guilty of an oifence against the law. 

Extortion, taken in a large sense, is any oppression 
hy colour or pretence of right \ but, in its proper sense, 
it is a great misprision, in wresting by any officer, under 
colour of his office, any money, either when none at all 
is due, or not so much is due, or when it is not yet 
due. 

I have now enumerated, and, by references to the 
common law, have explained the crimes and oifences 
known to the constitution and laws of the United States* 
It is next in order to consider the several punishments, 
;inrhich ate annexed to those crimes and offences. 

These punishments are of seven "different kinds: 
disqualification for office— fine— imprisonment — ^whip- 
ping — pillory — incapacity to give testimony-— death. Ta 

t Leacfa. 304. m lUA- 



380 ' A CHARGE TO THE GRAND JURY 

some crimes more kinds of punishment than one are 
assigned. To resistance of the officers of the customs 
is annexed a fine. ^ To the landing of goodis entered 
for exportation imprisonment is the punishment allotted.^ 
To bribery* and extortion ^ the punishments of disqualr- 
fication, fine, and imprisohment are assigned. To mis- 
prision of treason,' manslaughter,* misprision of felony,* 
atrocious maiming, ^ a confederacy with' pirates,^ resist- 
ance against process, ^ a rescue of persons not convicted 
of any capital crime, ^ serving process for arresting a 
publick minister,^ the violation of a safe conduct, and 
violence to the person of a publick minister, ^ are assign- 
ed the punishments of fine and imprisonment. Stealing 
or falsifying records, and fraudulently acknowledging 
bail, are punished with fine, imprisonment, and whip- 
ping. ^ Fine and whipping are the punishments annexed 
to larceny. J To perjury and subornation of perjuiy are 
allotted the punishments of fine, imprisonment, the pil- 
lory, and incapacity to give testimony. 

It deserves to be remarked, that, in every instance 
of punishment by fine, imprisonment, or whipping, 
limits are fixed on the side of severity ; none, on the 
side of mercy. 

▼ LawsU.S.CQn. l.sess. 3.0.35. s. 50. ^ Id.s.59. 

> Id.sess.3.c9.s.21. y Id. sess. 3. c 15. & 39. 

« Id. 8CBS. 2. c 9. 8. 2. • Id. if r. 12. ■'Ids. 6. 

«Id.8.1S. dld.s.12. eld.s.22. fld.s.23. 

sid.t.2<S. ^Id.8.28. 'Ids. 15. i Ids. 16. 

* Idi.ia 



IN THE CIRCUIT COURT, 381 

* 

y 
Against forging,* against procuring or assisting to 
forge publick securities," against uttering or causing to 
be uttered securities, which are forged," against the 
rescue of persons convicted of capital crimes,** against 
piracy, P against robbery,** against acts of hostility as 
specified in the law, ' against making a revok in a ship, 
agaitist violently hindering the captain of a vessel to fight 
in its defence, against piratically running away with any 
vessel," against murder,^ atid against treason, ° the punish- 
ment of death is denounced. 

Accessories before^ the fact to murder, robbery, or 
other piracy upon the seas shall suffer death. Accesso- 
ries after ^ the fact shall be fined and imprisoned. Re- 
ceivers of stolen goods ' shall be liable to like punishments 
as in the case of larceny. 

It is proper to point out to a grand jury the kinds and 
the grades of punishments ; because the respect due to the 
legislature will lead us to conclude, that there are similar 
kinds and well adjusted grades of crimes; because the 
probability of a crime is in the inverse proportion to its 
atrociousness ; and because, of consequence, a grand jury 
will require a degree of evidence adequate to the crimi- 
nality of every charge, which comes under their consi- 
deration. 



1 Laws U. S. con. 1. sess. 2. c.9. s. 14, "* Id* ibid. * Id. ibid* 
«Id.s.23.. P Id.s.8. qld.ibid. rld.8.9. > Id. 8.8. 
t Id. s. 3. "» Id. s. 1. V Id. s. la w Id. 8. lU 

m 

*id.8.ir. 



9$9 A CHARGE TO THE GRAWD JURT 

No person shall be (prosecuted for any capital crunc, 
wilful murder or forgery excepted, unless the indictment 
£oT it shall be found within three years after its commis** 
«ion : nor shall any person be prosecuted for an oBFence 
aot capital, or for a crime or forfeiture under a penal law;, 
unless the indictment or information for it shall be found 
•or instituted within two years after the commission of the 
oflFence, or after the fine xur forfeiture has incurred. BjjA 
4hese provisions shall not operate in favour of such as flee 
from justice. 3^ 

One, who is indicted of treason, shall have, at least 
three days before his trial, a copy of the indictment, and 
a list, contait^ing the names and places of abode, of the 

Jurors and of the witnesses to be produced pn the trial, 
A person indicted for any other capital crime shaU havc;^ 
at least two entire days before his trial, such a list olthe 

Jury, and a copy -of the indictment, ' 

The trial of all crimes shall be by Jury. « 

Every one indicted shall be allowed to make his fill} 
defence by counsel learned in the law. The court, or a 
Judge of the court, before whom he is to be tried, shallt 
<m his request, assign him counsel, such as he shall desirc« 
4>ut not exceeding two ; and his counsel shall havei free 
access to him at all seasonable hours. He shall also be 
admitted to make, in his defence, any proof, which he 
<:an produce by witnesses: to compel the attendance of 
liis witnesses at his trial he shall have legal process, sinu- 

y Law8U.S.Goo.l.aess.3.c.9.s.S3. « ]d.s.SlL 

» Con. U. &ait a. s. iSL 






IN THE CIRCUIT COURT. ' 3ft^ 

lar to that, which is granted to cofftpel witnesses to appear 
on the prosecution against him. 

No person shall be convicted of treason, unless on the 
testimony of two witnesses to the same overt act, 'or on 
confession in open court. ^ 

The benefit of clergy shall not be used or allowed, 
upon the convictionbf any crime, for which, by any statute 
of the United States, the punishment is or shall be dc- 
xlared to be death. ^ 

^he manner of inflicting the punishment df death 
ahall be by hanging the person convicted, by the neck^ 
Untirdead.* 

No conviction or judgment foi^any oiFence, yet punish- 
able by the laws of the United States; shall work corrup- 
tion of blood, or any forfeiture of estate. ^ 

I have now, gentlemen, given you an account, plains 
and concise, and yet, I hope, not altogether imperfect, of 
the criminal code, of the United States. It will be inte- 
resting and instructive to compare this code, in- some <tf 
its most remarkable regulations, with that of some other 
country. For this comparison, I select the criminal code 
of England. I select it, because, in other parts of Europe^ 
it has been proposed as a model, on account of its mild- 
ness ; and because, contrasted with many systems of cri- 
minal law, it is, indeed, comparatively mild. " That the 
English system of jurisprudence has its abuses, I will 

^ Laws U. S. con. 1. sess. 2. c 9. s. 39. ^ Con. U.S. art 3.8. 3. 
A Laws U. Si con. 1.8e8s.3. c 9.8.11. eld. 8.33. ^ Id. 8. 34 



AM A CHARQE TO TH£ GRAND JURY 

readily agree^'^ says a-writer of a nation long the rival of 
England ; ^^ but that it has fewer abuses than the system 
of any other civilized country, is what I am. able ta 
prove, 



"8 



It is the opinioii of some writers, highly respected fur 
their good sense, as Well as for their humanity, that capi- 
tal punishments are, in no case, necessary. It is an opi- 
nion^ which I am certainly well warranted in oflFering — 
that nothing but the most absolute necessity can authorize 
them. Another opinion I am equally warranted in offering 
— ^that they should not be aggravated by any sufferings, 
except those which are inseparably attached to a violent 
death. ^ It was worthy only of a tyrant *--^and of a tyrant 
it was truly characteristick — ^to give standing instructions 
to his executioQers, that they should protract the expiring 
moments of the tortured criminal ; and should manag^e 
the butchering business with such studied and slow bar- 
barity, as that his ponders of painful sensation should con- 
tinue to the very last — ut mori se sentiaU 

Hear from the mouth of a celebrated lawyer — cele- 
brated, however, for his learning, more than for his hu- 
inanity — the sentence pronounced against treason by the 
law of England t hear this sentence, full of horrours, 
represented as flowing from admirable clemency and 
moderation. 



t War. The. L. Crim. 18. 

^ ^ See tfaejr safer death, 
But in their deaths reioemher they are mea. Cat^, 

I Caligula. 



IN THE. CIRCUIT COURT. 585 

At the 'trial of the conspirators in the gun powder 
plot, Sir Edward Coke concluded the part which he 
acted as attorney general, in the following very remarka- 
ble manner* *' The conclusion shall be drawn from the 
admirable clemency and moderation of the king, in that 
howsoever these traitors have exceeded all others their 
predecessors in mischief, yet neither will the king 
exceed the usual punishment of the law, nor invent any 
new torture or torment for them ; but is graciously pleased 
to afford them as well an ordinary course of trial, as an 
ordinary punishment^ much inferiour to their offence. And 
surely, worthy of observation is the punishment provided 
and appointed for high treason. For first, after a traitor 
hath had his just trial, and is convicted and attainted, 
he shall have his judgment to be drawn to the place of 
execution frona his prison, as being not worthy any more 
to tread upon the face of the earth whereof he is made ; 
also for that he hath been retrograde to nature, there- 
fore he IS to be drawn backward at a horse tail. And 
whereas God hath made the head of man hia highest 
and most supreme part, as being his chief grace and 
ornament ; he must be drawn with his head declining 
downward, and lying so near the ground as may be, being 
thought unfit to take the benefi,t of the comnwn air. 
For which cause also he shall be strangled, being hanged 
up by the neck, between heaven and earth, as deemed 
unworthy of both, or either ; as likewise that the eyes 
of men may behold, and their hearts contemn him. 
Then he is to be cut down alive : his bowels and inlayed 
parts taken out and burnt, who inwardly had conceived 
and harboured in his heart such horrible treason. After, 
to have his head cut off, which had imagined the mis- 
chief. And, lastly, his body to be quartered^ atid the 
quarters set up in some high and eminent place^ to the 

VOL. III. 3 X) 



\ 



385 A CHARGE TO THE GRAKD JVRT 

view and detestation of men, and to become vl prey for 
the fowls of the air. And this is a rewa(rd due to trai- 
tors." j 

I relieve your feelings by a custom which was observ- 
ed among the Jews. They gave wine mmgled with myrrh 
to a criminal at the time of his execution, in order to 
produce a stupor, and deaden the sensibility of the 
pain. 

By the constitution of the United States, no attainder 
of treason shall work corruption of blood, or- forfeiture, 
except during the life of the person attainted. By the 
law of the United States, as it now standi, no judgment 
for any offence shall work corruption of blood or for- 
feiture of any estate. 

In England, the forfeiture of a criminal's personal 
estate accrues immediately upon his conviction of treason 
or felony. On his attainder for treason^ he forfeits to 
the king all his lands of inheritance, and all his rights 
of entry to lands and tenements. On his attainder for 
fclony^ he forfeits his lands in fee simple to the crown 
for a year and a day ; and the king may, within that 
time, commit what waste he pleases, by cutting timber, 
by ploughing meadows, by extirpating gardens, and by 
pulling down houses. 

This uncivilized regulation, hostile to the genius of 
publick prosperity and improvement, is not, however^ 
attende.d with any additional misfortune to the children 
«f the prisoner. Their ruin is already completed by the 

i l.St.Tri.343. 



• * 



IN THE CIRCUIT CaUR"!^. 387 

corruption of their parent's blood. This unnatural prin- 
ciple — I call it unnatural, because it dissolves,*as far as 
human laws can dissolve, the closest «nd the dearest ties 
of nature*^— this unnatural principle effectually intercepts 
from them the descent of his lands of inheritance, which, 
after the king's temporary right of forfeiture is satisfied, 
escheat to the lord of the fee. 

Corruption of blood extends both upwards and down- 
wards. A person attainted cannot inherit lands from 
his ancestors : he cannot transmit them to any heir : 
he even obstructs all descents to his posterity, whenever 
they must, through him, deduce their right from a 
more remote ancestor* 

It has be^n alleged, in favour of forfeiture, that, 
since its effects extend to the family of the criminal as 
well as to himself, it will have a powerful operation to 
restrain a person from attempts against the state, not 
only by the fear of personal punishment,' but also by his 
strongest natural affections. On a farther and closer 
investigation, however, it may, perhaps, be found, that 
this policy, as certainly it is not of the most generous, 
so neither is it of the most enlarged kind ; since forfei- 
tures, far from preventing, may have a tendency to 
multiply and to perpetuate offences and crimes. 

When the law says, that the children of him, who^ 
has been guilty of crimes, shall be bereaved of all th^r 
hopes and all their rights* of succession ; that they 9ftatt 
languish in perpetual indigence and distress ; that< their 
whole life shall be one dark scene of unintermilted and 
unabating punishment ; and that death alone shall pro- 
«vide for them a rcfiigeirom their miserj^— ^vhen such is 






388 A CHARGE TO THE GRAND JURY 

the language, or such is the e£fect of the law ; with 
what sentiments must it naturally inspire those, who 
are doomed to become its unfortunate, though unoffend- 
ing objects ? With sentiments of a deadly feud against 
the state, which has adopted, and which enforces it. 
To a law of this kind we may, with peculiar propriety, 
apply the n^axim — une loi rigoreuse produit des crimes. 

In the United States, a period is assigned, beyond 
which crimes and offences^ two excepted, cannot be 
prosecuted. This regulation is well calculated to estab- 
lish and to preserve the security of individuals, and 
the tranquillity of the state. ^^ Si post intervallum ac- 
cusare (accusator) velit," says Bracton, " non erit de 
jure audiendus, nisi docere poterit se fuisse justis ra- 
tionibus impeditum." ^ 

The advantages of a <?opy of the indictment, of coun- 
sel at the trial, and of process to compel the appear- 
ance of the prisoner's witnesses are enjoyed, in England) 
only in prosecutions for treason, but not in prosecutions 
for other crimes. * ^ 

The greatness of those advantages may be easily 
estimated by contemplating the helpless, the forlorn and 
the anxious situation of a person, who is deprived of 
them in a trial for his life. 

' When the bill for regulating trials in cases of high 

treckson was, in the reign of William the third, brought 

I into parliament ; that part of it, which allows counsel 

to the prisoner, was viewed, by the friends of freedom, 

^ Brae 118 b. 



IN THE CIRCUIT COURT. 389 

as a matter of the last importance. The Lord Ashley, 
afterwards earl of Shaftesbury and author of the cele- 
brated Characteristicks, was then a member of the house 
of commons. Actuated by that zeal for the principles of 
liberty, which accompanied him through life, he composed, 
as he was well qualified to coihpbse, an excellent speech 
in support of that important provision. When he rose 
to deliver it, the great and respectable audience, before 
which he appeared, intimidated him to such a degree, 
that he lost his powers of recollection, and was incapable 
of pronouncing what he had previously prepared. The 
house, eager to hear him, waited with solicitude till 
he should recover from his embarrassment, and, after 
some time, called loudly upon him to proceed. He pro- 
ceeded in this manner: *' If I, sir," — addressing him- 
self to the speaker — ^** If I, sir, who rise only to give 
my opinion on the bill now depending, am so confounded, 
that I am unable to express the least of what I proposed 
to say; what must the condition of that man be, who, 
without any assistance, is pleading for his life ?" ^ What 
mlust his condition be ! Unacquainted with the nature 
and with the forms of the whole proceedings against 
him, unassisted by counsel, " baited by crown lawyers,'* 
distracted by uncertainty and suspense, he finds a des- 
perate but an eligible refuge in the awful verdict of con-^ 
viction, which determines his fate. 

Let us turn our eyes to a more pleasing prospect. How 
few are the crimes— how few are the capital crimes, 
known to the laws of the United States, compared with 
those known to the laws of England ! Allowance, we 
own, should be made for the difference between the na- 

1 Gen. Dkt. voL 9. p. 179. 



590 A CHARGE TO THE GRAND JURY 

ture of the two governments; the objects of one being 
general ; those of the other, enumerated. But after 
every allowance is made for this consideration, still we 
may justly say — ^how few are the crimes — how few are 
the capital crimes, known to the laws of the United 
States, compared with those known to the laws of En- 
l^and ! When Sir William Blackstone wrote, no fewer 
than one hundred and sixty actions, which men are daily 
liable to commit, crowded the dismal list of felonies 
without benefit of clergy ; in other words, felonies de- 
clared to be worthy of immediate dearth. Actions, al- 
most inumerable, are doomed, by the same system, to 
severe, though inferiour penalties. 

The co-acervation of sanguinary laws ts a political 
distemper of the most inveterate and the most dangerous 
kind. By such laws the people are corrupted ; and when 
corruption arises from laws the evil may well be pro- 
nounced to be ipcurable ; for it proceeds from the very 
source, . from which the remedy should flow« 

This comparison between the criminal laws of Eng- 
land and thoseof the UnitedStates might be carried mucb 
£arther* The contrast would become still more and more 
striking ; and, of course, the result would become stiB 
more dnd more satisfactory* 

** How happy would mankind be,*' says the eloquent 
and benevolent Beccaria,"* " if laws were now to be 
first formed !" The United States enjoy this singulai* 
happiness. Their laws are now first formed. They are 
formed by the legitimate representatives of free citizens 

"Chsp^ae. 



IN TfiE CIRCUIT COURT. 



391 



and free states. Among those citizens and thpse states 
they now begin to be diffused. To those citizens and 
those states thcj*^ are objects of the greatest and most 
extensive importance. I speak particularly .concerning 
the criminal laws. It is on the excellence of the crimi- 
nal laws, says the celebrated Montesquieu," that the 
liberty of the citizens principally depends. The know- 
ledge^ continues he, which has been already Jfcquired in 
some countries, and that which may be hereafter ac- 
quired in others, with regard to the surest rules which 
can be observed in criminal judgments, is more interest- 
ing to the human kind, than any thing else in the uni- 
verse. It is only, adds he, on the practice of this 
knowledge that liberty can be founded. 

With regard to an individual, every one knows how 
much his fortunes and his character, his infelicity or his 
happiness depend on his. education. • What education is 
to the individual, the laws are to the community. " Good 
laws," says my lord Bacon, whose sentences are dis- 
courses, *' make a whole nation to be as a well ordered 
college.'* ^ With what earnestness should every nation 
—•with what peculiar earnestness should that nation, 
which boasts of liberty as the principle of her constitu- 
tion — ^with what peculiar earnestness should she endea- 
vour, that her laws, especially her criminal laws, should 
be improved to a degree of perfection as high as humaa 
policy and human virtue can carry them ! 



We have already seen, that the noblest end and aim 
of criminal jurisprudence is to prevent crimes : and we 
have already seen that punishments, mild, speedy, and 



*Sp.L;l).13.Q.3. 



»4.L(lBac« 9. 



592 A CHARGE TO THE CRAND JURY 

certain, are means calculated for preventing them. But 
these are not the only means. Crimes may be prevented 
by the genius as well as by the execution of the criminal 
laws. Let them be few : let them be clear : let them be 
be simple : let them be concise : let them be consummate- 
ly accurate. Let the punishment be proportioned — let it 
be analogous — to the crime. Let the reformation as 
well as the. punishment of offenders be kept constantly 
and steadily in view: and, while the dignity of the na- 
tion is vindicated, let reparation be made to those, who' 
have received injury. Above all, let the wisdom, the 
purity, and the benignity of the civil code supersede, 
for they are well calculated to supersede, the severity 
of criminal legislation. Let the law diffuse peace and 
happiness ; and innocence will walk in their train. 

I offer no apology, gentlemen, for the nature or the 
length of this address., A sense of duty has drawn it 
from tne. Every member of society should have it in 
his power to know when he is crimipal and when he is 
innocent. His criminality and his innocence should be 
designated by the laws. The code of criminal laws, 
therefore, should, as far as possible, be in the hands of 
everv citizen. In the situation, in which I have the 
honour to be placed, I deem it my duty to embrace every 
proper opportunity of disseminating the knowledge of 
them far and speedily. Can this be done with more pro- 
priety than in an address to a grand jury — ^to a grand 
jury summoned and returned for the body of an exten- 
sive district — ^a district so extensive and important as 
that of Virginia i These considerations induced me to 
lay before you an enumeration of the crimes and the 
punishments known to our constitution and laws. This 
I have endeavoured to do with the utmost conciseness. 



OF THE CIRCtJIT COURT, 393 

f 

4 * 

But, if the laws deserve it, they should be the objects 
of affection as well as of knowiedge. Thinking, as I 
think, concerning the high degree of regard, to which 
the criminal code of the United States has an undoubted 
claim, I am obliged to express the principles, on which 
I conceive that claim to be founded. This I have like- 
wise endeavoured to do with the utmost conciseness* > 

I mean not, however, to recommend to you an im- 
plicit and an undistinguishing approbation of the laws 
of your country. Admire ; but admire with reason on. 
your side. 

If, for instance, you think, that the laws respecting 
the publick securities are more severe than is absolutely 
necessary for supporting their value and their credit i it 
will be no crime to express your thoughts decently and 
properly to your representatives in congress. 

Permit me to suggest another method, by which our 
valuable code of criminal laws may be still increased in 
its value. Inform and practically convince every one 
within your respective spheres *of actioi\ and intercourse, 
that, as excellent laws improve the virtue of the citizeps, 
so the virtue of the citizens has a reciprocal and benign 
energy in heightening the excellence of the law. 

How happy are the people, by whom the laws are 
known and rationally beloved! The rational love o&the 
laws generates the enlightened love of our coi^ntry. The 
enlightened love of our country is propitious to eveiy 
virtue, which can adorn and exalt the citizen and the 
man. 

TOt. III. 3 E 



CONSroERATIONS 



ON THE 



BANK OF NORTH AMERICA. 



PUBLISHED IN THE TEAR 178S. 





CONSIDERATIONS, &c. 



xjlN attack is made on the credit and institution of the . 
Bank of North America. Whether this attack is justified 
by the principles of law and sound policy, is a natural sub^ 
ject of inquiry. The inquiry is as necessary and interest* 
iilg, as it is natural : for, though some people represent 
the bank as injurious and dangerous, while others consider 
it as salutary and beneficial to the community, all view it 
as an object of high importance ; deserving and demand- 
ing the pliblick attention. 

In the investigation of this si^bject, it will be requisite 
to discuss some great and leading questions concerning 
the constitution of the United States, and the relation 
which subsists between them .and each particular state in 



. ^ The publication o£ these considerations was Occasioned by a 
bill, introduced into the legislature of Pennsylvania, to repeal an act 
of assembly passed in the year 1783, by which a charter of incorpo- 
ration had beengranted to the Bank of North America./ The biU was 
passed into a law, in September 1795, Ed, 




398 CONSIDERATIONS ON THE ' 

he Union* Perhaps it is to he wished that this cjliscussion 
ad not been rendered necessary ; and that those questions 
had rested some time longer among the arcana imperii: 
but tl^i^^e now presented to the publick ; and the pub- 
lick^^^H|view them with firmness, with impartiality^ 
and^^^^B the solicitude befitting such a momentous 
occasirof^ 

f 

A gentleman,** who had the best opportunities of ob- 
serving, and who possesses the best talents for judging 
on the subject, informs his fellow citizens officially, that 
^^ it may be not only asserted, but demonstrated, that, 
*' without the establishment of the national bank, the busi- 
*^ ness of the department of finance could not have been 
performed" ia the late war. 



ii 



The millennium is not yet come. War, with all the 
horrours and miseries in his train, may revisit us. The 
finances may again be deranged : " publick credit may, 
^^ ag^in, be at an end : no means may be afforded adequate 
**to the publick expenses." Is it wise or politick to de- 
prive Our country, in such a situation, of a resource, 
which happy experience has shown to be of such essential 
importance? Will the citizens of the United States be 
encouraged to embark their fortunes on a similar bottom 
in a future war, by seeing the vessel, which carried us 30 
successfully through the last, thrown aside, like a useless 
hulk, upon the return of peace V 

' It will not be improper to recal to our remembrance 
the origin, the establishment, and the proceedings of the 
Bank of North America. 

b VidstkefMreAieeto the statement of thesceooBti^oftksUaksd 
States. 



I 

la M^jj 1 781, the »u^rinteBdaivt of fLaaQce laid be- 
fore congPCBs a pUm of a bank. On 'the ,a6th ^f ithat 
»mofkth, coQgfi096 .passed ^the iidlowing re$0l«tion cah- 

' ' » . 
*♦ Re9plye4, That coi^itefis do approve of the plan for 
establishing a national bank in these United States^sudb- 
mitted to their consideration by Mr. Robert Morris, the 
fl7th May, l^Sli^and thatihey wiQ pronfi(»te and siopport 
<the aaxaie by ^uoh waya md m^aos, from itameto time, ks 
'fjOiStf ^pear;neoe$i^ry for the im^l^tkm, taiid oofusftstsnt 

mth the pdWfick (good.; 

1. • . ' I ' < ■ • , 

A , ■ • • . '. . • ■ 

■ • 

^^ That the aubsiqriber^ torftlne said^ baidc dhtaH-be inoorv 
f>fi>ratedt agreeably to t|ke prhiciples a^d tenitsrof isbeiplatH 
jU)D4er the name of *^ The Pmmd^t, D^eototp, and.KjOflai** 
^any of ^tbe Bank of Nor^ Am^rijea/'iso noon aa sthe 
auhsjDiaptioQ sliaU te fiUed, .tiie diarbctors .and ptkisudent 
Dheoeii, aild afi|)li€atiofi oK^ade to coBgre^s for ^a£{iuEpose^ 
byfthb presidiBUt abd dinectors cl^otisd. : 



1 * 



^^ AejiolVed; Tliafc kJbe reoonimendod M td(ie veJtoBrai 
State8,;faiy {proper rlawsnfttr that ^urpoaevto provide thatMio 
other' bank ttc bankers shall lie .esliabUshtsd or permitted 
urithin the. said states i-espectii^ely d^rfa^'tkcirai:. 

'' fiesolred, rThat the notes .henaf j[6r to be iksaed by 
the said bapk, paj^ble on demandVshaU he receinrabJeiin 
payment of aU taxes;, duties, and debts, .due orrthat ma.^ 
beqpme«due>orpayableto^e United Sitates«^ uj-^ 



•■ ! • , 'I 



^Miesc^Ted, timt odngvcBs ^iU rrefionraieiul :tb tbe 
several legislatures to pass laws, making it felony without 
benefit of clergy, <br ^ny pielrson to 'counterfeit bank 



400 CONSIDERATIONS ON TBC 

notes, or to pass such notes, knowing them to be coun- 
terfeit ; also making it felony without benefit of clergy, 
for any president, inspector, director, officcx, or servant 
of the bank, to convert any of the property, money, or 
credit of the said bank to his own use, or in any other 
way to be guilty of fraud or embezzlement, as officers 
or servants of the bank." . ^ 

Under these resolutions a subscription was^opened for 
the national bank : this subscription was not confined to 
JPennyslvama : the citizens of other States trusted their 
property to the publick faith; and before the end of De- 
cember, 1781, the subscription was filled, ^^ from an 
-expectation of a charter of incorporation from congress." 
Application was made to congress by the president and 
directors, then chosen, for an act of ' incorporation. 
*' The exigencies of the United States rendered it indis- 
pensably necessary that such an act sMould be immediate* 
ly passcd."<^ Congress, at the same time that they passed 
the act of incorporation, recommended to the legislature 
of each state, to pass such laws as they might judge ne> 
cessary for giving iu ordinance its fiill operation, agreea- 
bly to the true intent and meamng thereof, and accord- 
ing to the recommendations contained in the resolution 
of the 26th day of May preceding. > 

The bank immediately commenced its operations. Its 
seeds were snisdl, but they were vigorous. The sums 
p^d in by individuals upon their subscriptions did not 
amount in the whoild^ to seveiUy thousand dollars* The 
sum invested by the United States, in bank stock, amount- 
ed to something more than two hundred and fifty thou- 

« Seethe act in the appendix. 



BANK OF NORTH AMERICA. 401 

sand dollars : but this sum' may be said to have been 
paid ill with one hand and borrowed with the other ; 
and before the end of the first three months, farther 
sums were advanced to the United States, and an ad« 
vance was made to this state. Besides, numerous ac« 
commodations were afforded to individuals. Litde was 
it then imagined that the bank would ever be represented 
as unfriendly to circulation. It was viewed as the 
source and as the support of credit, both private and 
publick : as such, it was hated and dreaded by the ene- 
mies of the United States : as such, it was loved and 
fostered by their friends. , 

Pennsylvania^ distinguished on numerous occasions 
by her faithful and affectionate attachment to federal 
principles, embraced, in the first session of her legisla- 
ture after the establishment of the bank, the opportunity 
of testifying her approbation of an act, which had been 
found to be indispensably necessary. Harmonizing with 
the sentiments and recommendations of the United States, 
the assembly passed an act, ^ " for preventing and pu- 
nishing the counterfeiting of the common seal, bank bills, 
and bank notes, of the president, directors, and company 
of the Bank of North America." In the preamble to this 
act, which, according to the constitution of this state, 
expresses the reasons and motives for passing it, the " ne- 
cessity" of taking " effectual measures for preventing 
and punishing frauds and cheats which may be put%pon 
the president, directors, and company of the Bank of 
North America," is explicitly declared by the legisla- 
ture. 

I 

^ See in the appen^x the difierent sums advanced to this state. 

• l«th of March, 1782. 
vol. HI, 3 r 






402 CONSIDERATIONS ON THE 

The sentiments and conduct of other states, respect- 
ing the establishment of the national bank by congress, 
were similar to those of Pennsylvania. The general as- 
sembly of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations' 
made it felony, without benefit of clergy, *' to counter- 
feit any note or notes issued, or to be issued, from the 
Bank of North America, as approved and established 
by the United States in Congress assembled." The state 
of Connecticut enacted, ^ that a tax should be laid, payable 
in money, or ^^ notes issued by the directors of the na- 
tional bank, established by an ordinance of the United 
States in congress assembled." By a law of Massachus* 
setts, the subscribers to the national bank, approved of by 
the United States, were ^incorporated, on the. behalf of 
that commonwealth, by the name of the president, di- 
rectors and company of the Bank of- North America, 
according to the terms of the ordinance to incorporate 
the said subscribers, passed by the United States in 
congress assembled on the thirty first day of December, 
IfSl." The same law further enacts, ^^ that all notes 
or bills, which have been or shall be issued by, for, or 
In the name of the said president, directors, and com- 
pany, and payable on demand, shall be receivable in 
the payment of all taxes, debts and duties, due or that 
nay become due, or payable to, or for account of, the 
emid United Stales." In the preamble of this law, the 
legislature declares that ^^ a national bank is of great ser- 
vic4^ as well to the publick as to individuals." 

The president and directors of the bank had a deli- 
cate and a difficult part to act. On one hand, they were 
obliged to guard against the malice and exertions of their 

'January Sesnoos, 1783. f lOth Jaaiuuyi ITBX 



BANK OF NORTH AMERICA* 40S 

• 

enemies: on the other, it was incumbent on them to 
sooth the timidit)' of some of their friends* The credit 
of a bank, as well as all other credit, depends on opi- 
nion* Opinion, whether well or ill ibunded, produces, 
in each case, the same effects upon conduct. Some 
thought that an act of incorporation from the legislature 
of this state would ^e beneficial ; none apprehended that 
it could ever be hurtful to the national bank. Prudence, 
therefore, and a disposition, very natural in that season 
of doubt and diffidence, to gratify the sentiments, and 
even the prejudices, of such as might become sub* 
scribers or customers to the bank, directed an application 
to the asisembly for ^^ a charter, similar to that granted 
by the United States in congress assembled." But though 
the directors were willing to avail themselves of encou> 
ragement from every quarter, they meant not to relin- 
quish any of their rights, or to change the foundation 
on which they rested. They made their application in* 
their corporate character. ^ They expressly mentioned to 
the assembly, that the United States in congress assem- 
bled had granted to the bank a charter of incorporation, 
and that the institution was to be carried on under their 
immediate auspices. The legislature thought that it was 
proper and reasonable to grant ' the request of the pre* 
sident and directors of the Bank of North America; and 
assigned, as a reason for the act, ^^ that the United States 
in congress assembled, from a conviction of the support 
which the finances of the United States would receive 
from the establishment of a national baniy passed an or- 
dinance to incorporate the subscribers for this purpose, 

^ Their letter to the president of the supreme executive coun- 
cil, on this occaaon, u in the appendix. 

> 1st of April, 1782. 



404 CONSIDERATIONS ON THE 

by the name and style of the president, directors, and 
company of the Bank of North America." 

The first clause of the law enacts, that ** those who 
are, and those who shall become subscribers to the said 
bank, be, and forever hereafter shall be, a corporation 
and body politick, to all intents and purposes." 

It is further enacted, that " the said corporation be, 
and shall be forever hereafter^ able and capable in law 
to do and execute all and singular matters and things* 
that to them shall or may appertain to do." 

To show, in the most striking light, the kind senti- 
ntents of the legislature towards the institution, it is fur- 
ther enacted, that " this act shall be cfonstrued and taken 
most favoui^alily and beneficially for the said corpora- 
*tion." 

On these facts and proceedings, two questions of 
much national importance present themselves to our 
view and examination. 

' • ' '^ 

I. Is the Bank 6f North America legally and consti- 
tutionally instituted and organized, by the charter of in- 
corporation granted by the United States in congress 
assembled ? 

II. Would it be wise or politick in the legislature of 
Pennsylvania, to revoke the charter which it has granted 
to the iiistitution? 

The discussion of these two questions will naturally 
lead us to the pnoper conclusions concerning the validity 
and the utility of the bank. 



BANS ^T NORTH AMERICA. 405 

I. Had the United States in cpn^ess assembled a 
legal and constitutional power to institute and organize the 
Bank of North America, by a charter of incorporation ? 

The objection^ under this head, will be — ^that the -a 
articles of cotifederation express all the powers of con- 
gress, that in those articles no power is delegated to that 
body to grant charters of incorporation, and that, there* 
fore, congress possess no such power. 

It is true, that, by the second article of the confede* 
ration, ^^ each state retains its sovereignty, freedom and 
independence, and every power, jurisdiction, and right, 
which is not, by the confederation, expressly delegated 
to the United States in congress assembled." 

If, then, any or each of the states possessed, previous 
to the confederation, a power, jurisdiction, or right, to 
institute and organize, by a charter of incorporation, a - 
bank for North America i in other words-i^^-commensu* 
rate to the United Stdtes $ such power, jurisdiction, and . 
right, unless expressly delegated to congress, cannot be 
legally* or constitutionally exercised by that body. 

But, we presume, it will not be contended, that any 
or each of the states could exercise any power or aiDt of , 
sovereignty extending over all the other states, or any of 
them ; or, in other words, incorporate a bank, commen- 
surate to the United States* 

The consequence is, that this is not an act of sove- 
reignty, or a power, jurisdiction, or right, which, by the 
second article of the confederation, must be expressly 



406 CONSIDERATIONS ON T&E 

4 

delegated to congress, in order to be possessed by that 
body. 

If, however, any person shall contend that any or each 
of the states can exercise such an extensive power or act 
of sovereignty as that above mentioned ; to such person 
we give this answer — The state of Massachussetts has 
exercised such power and act : Jt has incorporated the 
Bank of North America. But to pursue my argument. 

' Though the United States in congress assembled 
derive from the particular states no power, juristdiction, 
or right, which is not expressly delegated by the confe> 
delation, it does not thence follow, that, the United 
States in cohgress have no other powers, jurisdiction, 
or rights, than those delegated by the particular states. 

The United States have general rights, goieral pow- 
ers, and general obligations, not derived from any par- 
ticular states, nor from all the particular states, taken 
separately ^ but resulting from the union of the whole : 
and, therefore, it is provided, in the fifth article of the 
confederatiooi, ^* that for die more convenient manage- 
X ** ment of the general interests of the United States, 
^ delegates shall be annually appointed to meet in con- 
•* gress." 

To many purposes, the United States are to be con- 
sidered as one undivided, independent nation ; and as 
possessed of all the rights, and powers, and properties^ 
by the law of nations incident to such. 

Whenever an object occurs, to the direction of which 
no particular state is competent, the management of it 



BANK OF NORTH AMERICA. 



407 



nust, of necessity, belong, to the United States in con- 
gress assembled. There are many objects of this extend- 
ed nature. The purchase, the sale, the defence, and 
the government of lands and countries, not within any 
state, are all included under this description. An 
institution for circulating paper, and establishing its 
credit over the whole United States, is naturally ranged 
in the same class. 

■ III 

The act of independence was made before the articles 
of confederation. This act declares, that " these^ United 
Colonies^'^ (not enumerating them separately) " are 
free and independent states; and that, as free and inde- 
pendent states, they have full power to do all acts and 
things which independent states may, of right, do." 

The confederation was not intended to weaken or 
abridge the powers and rights, to which the United 
States were previously entitled. It was not intended 
to transfer any of those powers or rights to the particular 
states, of any of them. If, therefore, the power now in 
question was vested in the United States before the 
confederation ; it continues vested in them still. The 
confederation clothed the United States with many 
though, perhaps, not with sufficient powers : but of none 
did it disrobe them. 



It is no new position, that rights may be vested in a 
political body, which did not previously reside in any or 
in all the members of that body.^ They may be derived 
solely from the union of those members. J " The case,'* 
says the xelebrated Burlamaqui, " is here very near the 

I 

J 3. BurL 43. 



408 CONBIDKRATIONS ON THE 

*^ same as in that of several voices' collected together^ 
^ which, by their union, produce a harmony, that was 
^ not to be found separately in eacht" 

A number of unconnected inhabitants are settled on 
each side ^of a navigable river ; it belongs to none of 
them ; it belongs not to them all, for they have nothing 
in common : let them unite ; the river is the property of 
the united body. 

The arguments drawn from the political associations 
of individuals into a state will apply, with equal force 
and propriety, to a nun^ber of states united by a confe- 
^deracy. 

New states must be formed and established : their 
extent and boundaries must be regulated and ascertained. 
How can this be done, unless by the United States in 
congress assembled? 

States are corporations or bodies politick of the most 
important and dignified kind. 

Let us now concentre the foregoing observations, and 
apply them to the incorporation of the Bank of North 
America by congress. 

By the civil law, corporations seem to have been 
created by the mere and voluntary association of thehr 
members^ provided such convention was not contrary to 
law. ' 

k l.BLCoHL4r3. 



BANK OF NORTH AMERICA, 



409 



By the common law, something more is necessary — 
All the methods whefeby corporations exist are, for the 
most 4>art, reducible to that of the king's letters patents 
or charter of incoq)oration. ^ 

From thi» it will appear that the creation of a corpo. 
ration is, by the common law, considered as the act of 
the executive rather than of the^ legislative ppwers of 
governments 

Before the revolution, charters of incorporation were 
granted by the proprietaries of Pennsylvania, under a 
derivative authority from the crown, and those charters 
have been recognised by the constitution' and laws of the 
commonwealth since the revolution. 

.From analogy, therefore, we may justly infer, that 
the United States in confess assembled, possessing the 
executive powers of the union, may, in virtue of such 
powers, graiit charters of incorporation for accomplishing 
objects that comprehend ^ the general interests of the 
United States. 

But the United States in congress assembled possess, 
in many instances, and to many purposes, the legislative 
as well as the executive powers of the union ; and there- 
fore, whether we consider the incorporation of the bank 
as a law, or as a charter, it will be equally within the 
powers of congress: for the object of this institution 
could not be reached without the exertion of the combined 
sovereignty of the union. 



VOL* III. 



1 l.BL Com. 472.473. 
3 G 



I I 



410 CONSIDERATIONS ON THE 

I have a^ked — how can new states, which are bodies 
politick, be formed, unless by the United States in con^ 
gress assembled ? Fact, as well as argument, justifies 
my sentiments on this subject. The conduct of con. 
gress has been similar on similar occasions. The 
same principles have directed the exercise of the same 
powers. ; 

In the month of April, 17^84, congress resolved, that 
part of the western territory ^' should be divided into 
distinct states." 

They further resolved, that the settlers should, ^^ either 
on their own petition, or on the order of congress, receive 
authority from them to. meet together, for the purpose 
of establishing a temporary government, to adopt the con- 
stitution and laws of any one of the original states." 

*^ When- any such state shall have acquired twenty 
thousand free inhabitants, on giving due proof thereof 
to congress, they shall receive from, them authority to 
call a convention of representatives, to establish a per*' 
manent constitution and government for themselves." 

** The preceding J articles," among othi^rs, " shall bo 
formed into, a charter of compact ; shall be duly execu-^ 
ted by the president of the United States in congress 
assembled, under his hand and the seal of the United 
States ; shall be promulgated ; and shall stand as funda. 
mental constitutions between the thirteen original states, 
and each of the several states now newly described^ 
unalterable from and after the sale of any part of the 
territory of such state, but by the joint consent of the 
United States in coogressc assembled, and of the parti- 



JRAKX OF NO^TH AMERICA. 411 

f 
\ 

tular state within which such alteration is proposed to 
be made." 

It will be difficult, I believe, to urge against the power 
of congress to grant a charter to the .Bank of North 
America, any argument, which may not, with equal 
strength and fitness, be urged against the power of that 
body to form, execute, and promulgate a. charter of 
compact for the neiV^ states. 

r * 

I , " * 

The sentiments of the representatives of the United 
States, as to their power of incorporating the , bank, 
ought to have much Weight with us. Their sentiments 
are strongly marked by their conduct, in their first reso« 
lutions respecting the bank. These resolutions are made 
at the same time, and on the same subject : but there is 
a striking difference in their manner. It was thought 
proper " that no other bank should be permitted within 
any of the states, during the war." Congress " recom- 
mended to the several states to make prevision, for that 
purpose, by proper laws." It was ^thought prudent that 
the 1;>ank should be protected, by p^nal laws, from fraud) 
embezzlement, and forgery. Congress recommended it 
to the several legislatures to pass such laws. It was deemed 
expedient that bank notes should be received in payment 
of sums payable to the United States : congress resolve^ 
that the notes " shall be receivable" in such payments^ 
It was judged necessary that the bank should have a char- 
ter of incorporation : xcongress resolve^ that the bank 
*' shall be incorporated," on application made " to con- 
gress^ for that purpose. The line of distinction between 
those things in which congress could only recommend, 
and those in which they could act, is drawn in the 
clearest mannen The incorporation of the national 



41S GOK8IX>£RATlOKS OK TH£ 



I 

bank is ranked among those things, in which they could 



act 



This act of congress has, either expressly, or by im- 
plication, received the approbation of every state in the 
union. It was officially^ anhounced to eveiy state by the 
siiperintendant of finance. " Had axiy ofae state consi- 
dered it as an exercise of usurped power, wofild not 
that state have remonstrated against it ? But there is no 
such remonstrance. 

. This act of congress has been most explicitly recog« 
nised by. the legislature of Pennsylvania. The law for 
preventing and punishing frauds and cheats. upon the 
bank was passed on the 18tb of March, 1782, and 
before the bank had obtained a charter from this state. 
By that law it is made felony without benefit of clergyj 
to forge the dbmmon seal of the president J directors, and 
company of the Bank, of North America. Who were 
the president, directors, and company of the Bank of 
North America? Those whom congress had made " a 
corporation and body politick, to aU intends and purposes, 
by that name and style." How came that body by a 
" common seal ?" The act of congress ordained that 
that body ** should have full power and authority to 
make, h^ve and use a common seal." In the act to 
incorporate the subscribers to the Bank of North' Ame- 
rica, the legislature, after reciting that the United 
States in congress assembled bad ^^ passed an ordinance 
to incorporate them," say, " the president and directors 
of the said bank have applied to this house for a similar 
act of incorporation, which request it is proper and rea- 
sonable to grant." 

^ See his letter in the appendix. 



y 



BAKK 07 KORTH AMZKICA. 413 

When the foregoing facts and arguments are conai* 
dered, compared, and weighed, they will, it is hoped, 
evince and establish, satisfactorily to all, and conclusively 
on the legislature of Pennsylvania, the truth of this posi* 
tion*— — That the Bank of North America was legally 
and constitutionally instituted and organized, by.the char- 
ter of incorporation granted by the United States in con* 
gress assembled. 

^ II. Would it, then, be wise or politick in the legisla* 
ture of Pennsylvania, to revoke the charter which it has 
granted to this institution ? It would not be wise or po- 
litick: 

1st. Because the proceeding would be nugatory. The 
recal of the charter of Pennsylvania would not repeal 
that of the United States, by which we have proved the 
bank to be legally and constitutionally instituted and 
organized. 

2d< Because, though the legislature may destroy the 
legislative operation^ yet it cannot undo the legislative acm 
knowledgment of its own act. Though a statute be repeal- 
ed, yet it shows the sense and opinion of the legislature 
concerning the subject of it, in the same manner as if it 
continued in force. "^ The legislature declared, in the 
law, that it was proper and reasonable to grant the request 
of the president and directors of the bank, for an act of 
incorporation similar to the ordinance of congress : no 
repeal of the law can weaken the force of that declaration. 

3d. Because sucti a proceeding would wound that 
confidence in the engagements of government, which it 

n Foster, 394. 



414 CONSIDERATIONS ON TH2 

is so much the interest and duty of every state to encou- 
rage and reward. The act in question formed a charter 
of compact between the legislature of this state, and the 
president, directors, and company of the Bank of North 
America. The latter asked for nothing but 'what was 
proper and reasonable : the former granted nothing but 
what ^was proper and reasonable ; the terms of the com* 
pact were, therefore, fair and honest: while these terms 
are observed on one side, the compact cannot, consist- 
ently with the rules of good faith^ be departed from on 
the other* ; 

It may be asked-— Has not the state power over her own 
laws ? — May she not alter, amend, extend, restrain, and 
repeal them at her pleasure I 

I am far from opposing the legislative authority of the 

state : but it must be observed, that, according to the 

practice of the legislature, publick acts of "^try different 

kinds are drawn and promulgated under the same form« 

A law to ^ vest or qonfirm an estate in an individual — % 

law to incorporate a congregation or other society — ^a law 

respecting the rights and properties of all the citizens of 

the state-1— are all parsed in the same manner ; are all 

clothed in the sanie dress of legislative formality ; and 

are all equally acts of the representatives of the freemen 

of the commonwealth« But surely it will not be pretend* 

ed, that, after laws of those different kinds are passed, 

the legislature possesses over each the same discretionary 

power of repea}.. In a law respecting the rigbt3 and pro- 

pertiesof all the citizens of the state, this power may be 

safely exercised by the legislature. Why ? Because, in 

this case, the interest of those who make the law (the 

members of assembly and their constituents) and the 



BAKK 07 NORTH AMERICA. 



415 



interest of those who are to be affected by the law (the 
members pf assembly and their constituents) is the same- 
It is a common cause, and may, therefore, be safely trusted 
to the representatives of the community.. None can hurt 
another, without, at the same time, hurting himself. Very 
different is the case with regard to a law, by which the 
state grants privileges to a congregation or other society. 
Here two parties are instituted, and two distinct interests 
subsist. Rules of justice, of faith, and of honour mu8t» 
therefore, be established between them : fdr, if interest 
alone is to be viewed, the congregation or society must 
always lie at the mercy of the community. Still more 
different is the case with regard to a Jaw, by which an 
estate is vested or conirmed in an indiyidual: if, in this* 
ease, the legislature may, at discretion, and without any 
reason assigned, devest or destroy his estate, then a per- 
son seized of an estata in fee simple, under legislaMve 
sanction, is, in truth, nothing more than a solemn tenant 
at will. 



" For these reasons, whenever the objects and .makersr 
of an instrument, passed under the form of a law, are^ 
not the same, it is to be considered as a compact, and ta 
be intei^preted according to the rules and maxims, by 
which compacts are governed. A foreigner is natura^^ 
lized by law : is he a citizen only during pleasure ? He 
is no more, if, without any cause of forfeiture assigned 
and established, the law, by which he is naturalized, may 
at pleasure be repealed. To receive the legislative stamp 
of stability and permanency, acts of incorporation are ap- 
plied for from the legislature. If these acts may be 
repealed without notice, without accusation, without hear^ 
ing, without proof, without forfeiture ; where is the stamp 
^f their stability i Their motto should be^ ^^ Levity.'^ 



416 CONSIDEAATIOKfi OK THE 

If the act for incorporating the subscribers to the Bank 
of NcMth America shall he repealed in this manner, a 
precedent will be established for repealing, in the same 
manner, every other legislative charter in Pennsylvania. 
A pretence, as specious as any that can be alleged on 
this occasion, will never be wanting on ahy future occa-^ 
sion. Those acts of the state, which have hitherto been 
considered as the sure anchors of privilege and of pro* 
perty, will become the sport of every varying gust of 
politicks, and will float wildly backwards and forwards 
on the irregular and impetuous tides c^ party and faction. 

4th. It would not be wise or politick to repeal the 
charter granted by thi^ state to the Bank of North Atne- 
rica, because such a measure would operate, as far as it 
would have any operation, agsunst the credit of the United 
States, on which the interest of this commonwealth and 
her citizens so essentially depends. This institution ori- 
ginated under the auspices of the United States : the 
subscription to the national bank was opened under the 
recommendations and the engagements of congress: 
citizens of this «tate, and of the odier states, and foreign- 
ers have become stockholders, on the publick faith : the 
United States have pledged themselves ^^ to promote and 
^^ support the institution by such ways and means, from 
^' time to time, as may appear necessary for it; and con- 
"sistent with the publick good.*'** They have recom- 
mended to the legislature of each state, ^^ to pass such 
^' laws as they might judge necessary for giving the ordi- 
^^ nance incorporating the bank its full operation." Penn- 
sylvania has entered fully into the views, the recommcB* 
dationS) and the measures of congress respecting die bank* 

« 36llilisy, 1781. 



BANK Of NORTH AMERICA. 4.1 f 

She has dechired in the strongest manner her sensp of 
their propriety, their reasonableness, and their necessity : 
she has passed laws for giving them their full operation* 
Will it redound to the credit of the United States to adopt 
and pursue a contrary system of conduct ? The acts and 
recommendations of congress subsist still in all their ori- 
ginal force ; will it not have a tendency to shake §11 con- 
fidence in the councils and proceedings of the United 
States, if those acts and recommendations are now dis*- 
regarded, without any reason shown for disregarding 
them i What iilfiuence will such a proceeding have upon 
the opinions and sentiments of the citizens of the United 
States and of foreigners ? In one year they see measures 
respecting an object of confessed publick importance 
adopted and recommended with ardour by congress ; and 
the views and wishes of that body zealously pursued by 
Pennsylvania : in another year they see those very mea- 
sures, without any apparent reason for the change, warmly 
reprobated by that state : they must conclude one of two 
things :— that congress adopted and recommended those 
measures hastily and without consideration ^ or that Penn- 
sylvania has reprobated them undutifuUy and disrespect- 
fully- The former conclusion will give rise to very unfa- 
iFourable reflections concerniug the discernment both of 
the state and of the United States : the latter will suggest 
very inauspicious sentiments concerning the federal dis- 
position and character of this commonwealth. The result 
of the conclusion will be — that the United States do not 
deserve, or that they will not receive, support in their 
system of finance. — These deductions and inferenc^es will 
have particular weight, as tl^ey will be grounded on the 
conduct of Pennsylvania, hitherto one of the rao«t federal, 
'active, and affectionate states in the Union. 

WOU III. 3 R 



418 CONSIDERATIONS ON THB 

*5th. It would not be wise or politick in the legislature 
to repeal their charter to the bank ; because the tendency 
of such a step would be to deprive this state and the 
United States of all the advantages^ publick and private, 
which would flow from the institution^ in times of war, 
and in times of peace. 

Let us turn our attention to some of the most mate- ^ 
rial advantages resulting from a bank. 

1st. It increases circulation, and invigorates industry. 
" It is not," says Dr. Smith, in his Treatise on the 
Wealth of Nations, p ^' by augmenting the capital of the 
country, but by rendering a greater part of that capital 
active and productive than would otherwise be so, that 
the most judicious operations of banking can increase 
the industry of the country. The part of his capital 
which a dealer is obliged to k«ep by him unemployed, 
and in ready money, for answering occasional demands, 
is so much dead stock, which, so long as it remains in 
this situation, produces nothing either to him or to his 
country. The judicious operations of banking enable 
him to convert this dead stock into active and productive 
stock I into materials to work upon, into tools to work 
with, and into provisions and subsistence to work for ; 
into stock which produces something both to himself and 
to his country. The gold and silver money which circu- 
lates in any country, and by means of which the pro* 
duce of its land and labour is annually circulated and 
distributed to the proper consumers, . is, in the same 
manner as the ready money of the dealer, all dead stock.., 
It is a very valuable part of the capital of the country^ 

pVoLI. p. 483^ 484. 



HAHK OF NOKTH AMERICA. 419 

wliich produces nothing to the country. The judicious 
operations of banking, by substituting paper in the room 
of a great part of this gold and silver, enables the country 
to convert a great part of this dead stock into active and 
productive stock ; into stock which produces something 
to the country. The gold and silver money which cir- 
culates in any country may very properly be compared 
to a highway, which, while it circulates and carries to 
market all the grass and corn of the country, produces^ 
itself^ not a single pile of either. The judicious opera- 
tions of banking, by providing, if I may be allowed so 
violent a metaphor, a sort of wagon-way through the 
air, enable the country to convert, as it were, a great 
part of its highways into good pasture and com fields, 
and thereby to increase very considerably the annual pro- 
duce of its land and labour." 

The same sensible writer informs us, in another place, 
that ** the ^ substitution of paper in the room of gold 
and silver money, replaces- a very e^cpensive instrument 
of commerce with one much less costly, and sometimes 
. equally convenient. Circulation comes to be carried on 
by a new wheel, which it costs less both to erect and to 
maintain than the old one. — There are several sorts of 
papef money; but the circulating notes of banks and 
bankers is the species^ which is best, known^ and which 
seems best adapted for this purpose."-—" These notes 
come to have the same currency as gold and silver mo- 
ney, from the confidence that such money can at any 
time be had for them." 

Sir James Stewart calls banking " the great engine, r 
^y which domestick circulation is carried on." 

« VoL 1. p. 434, 43if. ' 2. PoL Ec. 350. 



420 COKSIDXRATIOKS ON THE 

To have a free, easy, and equable instroment of cir- 
culation is of much importance in all countries : it is of 
peculiar importance in young and flourishing countries, 
in which the demands for credit, and the rewards of in- 
dustry, are greater than in any other. When we view 
the extent and situation of the United States, we shall be 
satisfied that their inhabitants may, for a long time to 
come, employ profitably, in the improvement of their 
lands, a greater stock than they will be able easily to 
procure. In such a situation, it will sdwaj s be of great 
service to them to save as much as possible the expense of 
so costly an instrument of commerce as gold and silver, 
to substitute in its place one cheaper, and, for many pur- 
poses, not less convenient ; and to convert the value of 
the gold and silver into the labour and the materials 
necessary for improving and extending their settlements 
and plantations. 

** To the banks ofScotland," says Sir James Stewart,* 
** the improvement of that country is entirely owing ; and 
until they are generally established in other countries of 
Europe, where trade and industry are little known, it 
Will be very difficult to set those great engines to work,'* 

2d* The influence of a bank on cfedit is no less salu- 
tary than its influeiice on circulation* This position is, 
indeed, litde more than a corollary from the former. 
Credit is confidence ; and, before we can place confi- 
dence in a payment, we must be convinced that he 
who is to make it will be both able and willing to do so 
at the time stipulated. However unexceptioi^ble his 
character and fortune may be, this conviction can never 

» 2.Pol.£c.356. 



BAXK or 1«0RTH AMEHTCA; 4S1 

take place, unless in a country where solid property cat! 
be, at any time, turned into a' cir(nilattng medium* 

i3d. Trade, as well as circulation and credit, derives 
great support and assist^mce from a bank. Credit and 
circulation produce punctusdity ; and punctuality is the 
soul of commerce* Let us appeal to experience as well 
as reason* ' 

Dr. Smith Isays, ' he has heard it asserted, that the 
&ade of the city of Glasgow doubled in about fifteen 
years after the first erection of the banks there ; and that 
the trade of Scotland has more than quadrupled since 
the first erection of the two publick banks at Edinburgh^ 
of which one was established in 1695, and the other in 
irsr. Whether the increase has been in so great a^ 
proportion, the author pretends not to know. But that 
the trade of Scotland has increased very considerably 
during this period, and that the banks have contributed 
a good deal to this increase, cannot, he says, be doubted* 

These observations, and observations similar to these,^ 
have induced Sir James Stewart to conclude,— 'that 
** Banking,**^ in the age we live, is that branch of credit 
which best deserves the attention of a statesman. Upon 
the right establishment of banks depends the prosperity 
of trade, and the equable course of circulation. By them 
solid property may be melted down. By the nieans of 

* 

banks, money may be constantly kept at a due propor- 
tion to alienation. If alienation incveases^ more pro- 
perty may i>e melt^ down. If it diminishes, the 
quantity of money stagnating will be absorbed by the 

t Vol 1. p. 442. • S. F^Ec 35t. 



4M< eoirsiDERATiONt oi^ Tits 

bank, and part of the property formerlf melted dowM 
in the securities granted *to them will bei^ as it were, 
consolidated anew. These must pay, for the country, 
the balance of their trade with foreign nations : these 
I^eep the mints at work : and it is.by these means, prin- 
cipally, that private, mercantile, and publick credit i» 
supported." 

I make no apology for the number and length of the 
quotations here used. They are from writers of. great 
information, profound judgment, and unquestioned can- 
dour. They appear strictly and strongly applicable to 
my subject : and being so, should carry with them the 
greatest weight and influence ; for the sentiments, which 
they contain and inculcate, must be considered as result- 
ing from general principles and facts, and not as calcu- 
lated for any partial purpose in this commonwealth. 

But, here, it will probably be asked-— Has your rea- 
soning been verified by experience in this country ? What 
advantages have resulted from the bank to commerce, 
circulation, and credit ? Was our trade ever on such an 
undesirable footing? Is notth^ country distressed by the 
want of a circulating medium i Is not credit almost to- 
tally destroyed ? 

I answer — There is, unfortunately, too much trutk 
in the representation : but if events are properly distin- 
guished, and traced to their causes, it will be found- 
that none pf the inconveniences abovementioned have 
arisen from the bank — ^that seme of them have proceeded , 
at least in part, from the opposition which has been given 
to it — and that, as to others, its energy has not bees 
sufficient to counteract or control them. 



BANK OF NORTU A]M[£RICA. 42S 

The disagreeable stdte of our. commerce has been. the 
effect of extravagant and injudicipus importation... Du- 
ring the war, our ports were in a great measure blocked up* 
Imported articles were scarce and dear ; and we felt thu^ 
disadvantages of a stagnation in business. Extremes 
frequently introduce one another. When hostilitiiefl 
ceased, the floodgates of commerce were opened ; atkd 
an inundation of foreign manufactures overflowed, .the 
United States : we seemed to have forgot, that to jpajr 
was as necessary ip tfade sis to puvch{(se; ai9d'.wt;.:obseni? 
ed nO] proportion betwreen our imports, and oilr pi:odacb 
and othef natural pi^ea.ns of remittance. ..What wasthci 
consequence ? Those who made any payments* made 
them chiefly in specie ; ^nd in that way dimmishedvpuf 
circulation. Others m^de np reinittances. at i^II, aiul 
thereby injured our credit. This account of what hap*^ 
pened between the European merchants and our impor- 
ters, corresponds exactly with what happened between 
our importers and the retailers spread over the difiereitt 
parts of the. United States. The retailers, if they paid 
at ally paid in specie : and thus every operation, foreign 
and domestick, had an injurious effect on our credit, our 
circulation, and our commerce. But are any of these 
disadvantages to be ascribed to the«bank? No. Is it .to 
be accounted a fault or defect in the bank, that it did 
not prevent or remedy those disadvantages? By no means.. 
Because one is not able to stem^a torrent* is he there* 
fore to be charged with augmenting its strength ? The 
bank has had many difliculties to encounter. The expe- 
riment was a new one in this country : it was therefore 
necessary that it should be conducted . with caution » 
While the war continued, the demands of the puUick 
were great, and the stock of the bank was but inconsi- 
derable ; it had its active enemies^ and its timid friends* 



I 



/' 



4S4 COfKSlDBRATIONfl ON THE 

' Soon after the peace was concluded, its operations were 
restrained and embarrassed by an attempt to establish a 
new bank. A year had not elapsed after this, when the 
measure, which has occasioned these considerations, was 
introduced into the legislature, and caused, ft>r some time, 
a total stagnation in the business of the institution. When 
all these circumstances are recollected and attended to, 
it will be matter of surprise that the bank has done so 
much, and not that it has done no more. Let it be 
deemed, as it ought to be, the object of publick confi« 
deoce, and not of publick jealousy : let it be encouraged, 
in&tead of being opposed, by the counsels and proceed- 
ings of the state : then will the genuine effects of the 
institution appear; then will they spread their auspi- 
uous influence over agriculture, maniifactures, and com- 
merce* 

4th* Another advantage to be expected from the 
Bank of North America is, the establishment of an unde- 
preciating paper currency through the United States* 
This is an object of great consequence, whether it be 
considered in a political, or in a commercial view. It 
will be found to have a happy effect on the coUeetion^ 
\ the distribution, and the management of the publick 
revenue : it will remove the inconveniences and fluctua- 
tion attending exchange and remittances between the 
different states. " It- is the interest of every trading 
state to have a sufficient quantity of paper, well secured, 
to circulate through it, so as to facilitate payments every 
where, and to cut c^ inland exchanges, which are ft 
great dog upon trade, and are attended with the risk 
of receiving the psqper of people, whose credit is bat 
doiihtfuL"'' 

>3.PdLEc415. 



BANK OF NORTH AMERICA. 425 

Such are the advantages which may be expected to 
flow from a national bank, in times'of peace. In times 
of war, the institution may be considered as essential. 
We have seen that, without it, the business of the depart^ 
ment of finance could not have been carried on in the 
late war. It will be of use to recollect the situation of 
the United States with regard to this subject. The two 
or three first years of the war were sufiicient to convince 
the British government, and the British armies, that 
they could not subdue the United States by military 
force. Their hopes of success rested on the failure of 
our finances. This was the source of our fears, as well as 
of the hopes of our enemies. By this thread our fate 
was suspended. We watched it with anxiety : we saw it 
stretched and weakened every hour; the deathful instru- 
ment was ready to fall upon our heads : on our heads 
it must have fallen, had not publick credit, in the moment 
when it was about to break asunder, been entwined and 
supported by the credit of the bank. Congress, to speak 
without metaphors, had not money or credit to hire an 
express, or purchase a cord of wood. General Wash- 
ington, on one occasion, and probably more than one, 
saw his army litt^rally unable to march. Our distress 
was such, that it would have been destruction to have 
divulged it : but it ought to be known now ; and when 
known, ought»to have its proper influence gn the publick 
mind and the publick conduct. 

The expenses of a war must be defrayed, eithe r 
1st, by treasures previously accumulatedrr — or 2dly, 
by supplies levied and collected within the year, as they 
are called for or 3dly, by the anticipation of the pub- 

VOL. III. 3 I 



426 CONSIDERATIONS ON THE 

lick rC/Venues. No one will venture to refer us to the 
first mode. To the second the United States, as well 
as every state in Europe, are rendered incompetent by 
the modem system of war, which, in the military ope- 
rations of one year, concentres the revenue of many. 
While our enemies adhere to this system, we must 
adopt it. The anticipation of revenue, then. Is the only 
mode, by which the expenses of a future war can be 
defrayed. How the revenues of the United States can 
be anticipated without the operations of a national bank, 
I leave to those who attack the Bank of North America 
to show. They ought to be well prepared to show it; 
for they must know, that to be incapable of supporting a 
war is but a single step from being involved in one. 

The result of the whole, under this head, is, — ^ihat 
In times of peace, the national bank will be highly 
advantageous ; that in times of war, it will be essentially 
necessary, to the United States. 

I flatter myself, that I have evinced the validity and 
the utility of the institution. 

It has been surmised, that the design of the legisla. 
ture is not to destroy, but to modify, the charter of 
the bank ; and that if the directors would assent to 
reasonable amendments, the charter, modified, might 
continue in force. If this is the case, surely to repeal 
the law incorporating the bank is not the proper mode- 
of doing the business. The bank was established and 
organized under the authority and auspices of congress. 
The directors have a trust and duty to discharge to the 
United Sutes, and to all t)ie particular states, each of 



i 



BANK 07 NORTH AMERICA 



427 



which has an equal interest in the bank. They could 
not have received, from this state, a charter, unless it 
had been similar to that granted by congress* Without 
the approbation of congress, where all the states are 
represented, the directors would not be justified in 
agreeing to any alteration of the institution. , If altera- 
tions are necessary ; they should be made through the 
channel of the United States in congress assembled. 



APPENDIX 



TO THE 



PRECEDING CONSIDERATIONS. 



AN ORDINANCE, TO INCORPORATE THE SUBSCRIBERS TO THE 

BANK OF NORTH AMERICA. 

W HERE AS congress, on the twenty sixth day of May last^ 
did, from a conviction of th« support which the finances of the 
' United States would receive from the establishment of a na- 
tional l)ank, approve a plan for such an institution, submitted 
to their consideration by Robert Morris, Esq. and now lodged 
among the archives of congress, and did engage to promote 
the same by the most effectual means : and whereas the sub- 
scription thereto is now filUd, from an expectation of a charter 
of incorporation from congress, the directors and president are 
chosen, and application hath been made to congress, by the 
said president and directors, for an act of incorporation : and 
whereas the exigencies of the United States render it indispen- 
sably necessary that such an act be imniediately passed : 

Be it therefore ordained, and it is hereby ordained by the 
United States in congress assembled. That those who are, and 
those who shall become subscribers to the said bank, be, anil 



4SO APPENDIX TO THE 

for ever after shall be, a corporation and body politick, to all 
intents and purposes, by thd name and style of The President^ 
Directors and Company of the Bank of North America. 

And be it further ordained, That the said corporation are 
hereby declared and made able, and capable in law t» have* 
purchase, receive, possess, enjoy and retain lands, rents, tene" 
ments, hereditaments, goods, chattels, and effects, of what 
kind, nature or quality soever, to the amount of ten millions 
of Spanish silver milled dollars, and no more, and also to sell) 
grant, demise, alien or dispose of the same lands, rents, tene- 
ments, hereditaments) goods, chattels and effects. 

And be it further ordained, That the said corporation be, 
and shall be for ever hereafter, able and capable in law to sue 
and be sued, plead and be impleaded, answer and be answered 
untoy defend and be defended, in courts of record, or any other 
place whatsoever, and to do and execute all and singular other 
matters and things, that to them shall or may appertain to do. 

And b« it further ordained. That for the well governing of 
the said corporation, and the ordering of their affairs, they 
shall have such officers as they shall hereafter direct ojr ap- 
pmnt : provided nevertheless, that twelve directors, one of 
whom sh;^l be the president of the corporation, be of the 
number of their officers. 

« 

And be it further ordained, That Thomas Willing be the 
present president; and that the said Thorny Willing and 
Thomas Fitzsimons, John Maxwell Nesbitt, James Wilsoni 
Henrf Hill, Samuel Osgood, Cadwalader Morris, Andrew 
Caldwell, Samuel Ingles, Samuel Meredith, William Bing- 
ham, Timothy Matlack, be the present directors of the said 
corporation, and shall so continue until another president and 
other directors shall -be chosen, according to the laws and 
regnla^^^^s of the said corporatioiu 



PRECEDING CONSIDERATIONS. 431 

And be it further ordained, That the president and direc. 
tors of the said corporation shall be capable of exercising such 
power, for the well governing and ordering. ©f the affairs of 
the said corporation^, and of holding such occasional meetings 
for that purpose, as shall be described, fixed and determined 
by the laws, regulations and ordinances of the said corpo* 
ration. 

And be it further ordained, That the^said corporation may 
make, ordain, establish and put in execution, such laws, ordi- 
Bances and regulations, as shall seem necessary and convenient 
to the government of the said corporation : provided always, 
that nothing herein before contained shall be construed to 
authorize the said corporation to exercise any powers in any 
of the United States, repugnant to the laws or constitution of 
such state. And be it further ordained. That the said corpo* 
ration shall have full power and authority to make, have, and 
use a common seal, with such device and inscription as they 
shall think proper, and the same to breaki alter and renew^ 
at their pleasure. 

And be it further ordained. That this ordinance shall be 
construed and taken most favourably and beneficially for the ' 
said corporation. 

Done by the United States in congress assembled, the- 
thirty first day of December, in the year of our Lord 
one thousand seven hundred and eighty one, and in the- 
sixth year of our independence. 

• 
JOHN HANSON, President*. 

Attest. Charles Thomson, Secretary. 



^ 



4J2^ APPENDIX TO THE 



Office of Finance, January 8, I787r 
sia^ 

I HAVE the honour to transmit herewith an ordinancer 
passed by the United States in congress assembled the 31st 
day of December, 1781, incorporating the subscribers to the 
Bank of North America, together with sundry resolutions, 
recommending to the several states to pass such laws as they 
may judge necessary for giving the said ordinance its full 
operation* The resolutions of the 36th of May last speak so 
clearly to the points necessary to be established by those laws 
that I need not enlarge on them. Should any thing more be 
^und necessary upon experience, the president and directors 
will no doubt make suitable applications to congress, or to the 
states respectively, as the case may require. It affords me 
great satisfaction to inform your excellency, that tkis bank 
commenced its operations yesterday ; and I am confident, that 
with proper management it will answer the most sanguine 
expectations of those who befriend the institution. It will 
facilitate the management of the finances of the United States^ 
the several states may, when their respective necessities re* 
quire, and the abilities of the bank will permit, derive occa- 
'sional advantage, and accommodations from it : it will afford 
to the individuals of all the states, a medium for their inter- 
course with each other, and for the payment of taxes, more 
convenient than the precious metals, and equally safe : it will 
•have a tendency to increase both the internal and external 
commerce of North America, and undoubtedly will be infi. 
nitely useful to all the traders of every state in the Union : 
provided, as I have already said, it is conducted on the prin* 
ciples of equity, justice, prudence and economy. The present 
directors bear characters that cannot fail to inspire confidence ^ 
and as the corporation is amenable to the laws, power can 
neither sanctify any improper conduct, nor protect the guilty» 
Under a full conviction of these things, I flatter myself that 
I sliall stand excused for recommending, in the strongest 



ntECEDINC CONSIDERATIONS. 433 

manner, this well meant plan, to all the encouragement and 
protection which your state can give, consistently with wisdom 
and justice. I have the honour to be, with great respect^ 

Your Excellency's most obedient, 
and most humble servant, 

ROBERT MORRIS. 
Circular 
To the Governours of each state. 



An act for preventing and punishing the counterfeiting of the 
common seal, bank bills and bank notes of the president, 
directors and company of the Bank of North Araerica, and 
for other purposes therein mentioned. 

Sect. I. WHEREAS it is necessary .to take effectual 
measures for preventing and punishing frauds and cheats, 
which may be put upon the president, directors and company 
of the Bank of North America, by altering, forging or coun. 
terfeiting the common seal, and the bank bills and bank notes 
of the said president, directors and company : 

Sect. II. Be it therefore enacted, and it is bereby enacted 
by the representatives of the freemen of the commonwealth 
of Pennsylvania, in general assembly met, and by the authority 
of the same. That if any person or persons shall forge, coun« 
terfeit or alter the common seal of the said president, direc- 
tors and company, or any bank bill or bank note, made or given 
out, or to be made or given out, for the payment of any sum 
of money by or for the said presi dent, directors and company, 
or shall tender in payment, utter, vend, exchange or barter 
any such forged, counterfeit or altered bill or note, or shall 
demand to have the same exchanged for ready money by the 

VOLt III. 3 K 



454 AffZilT>l^ TO THK 

gaid president) directors and companf, or any other person or 
persons (knowing such bill or note so tendered,'uttered, vend- 
ed, exchanged or bartered, or demanded to be so exchanged, 
to be forged, counterfeit or altered) with intent to defraud the 
sud president, directors, and company, or any other person 
or perssnsf bodies politick or corporate, then every such per- 
son or persons so offending, and being' thereof convicted in 
due form of law, shall be deemed guilty of felony, and shall 
suffer death as a felon, without benefit of clergy* 

Sect* III. And be it further enacted by the authority afore- 
said, That if any president, director, or any officer or ser- 
vant of the said president, directory, and company, being 
intrusted with any such bill or note, or any bond, demd, 
money or other effects, belonging to the said pre»dent, di- 
rectors, and company, or having any such bill or note, or any 
b«nd, deed, money, or other effects, lodged or deposited with 
the said president, directors, and company, or with such officer 
or servant, as an officer or servant of the said president, direc- 
tors and company, shall secrete, embezzle, or run away with 
any such bill, note^ bond, deed, money or other effects, or any 
pirt of them, every president, director, officer or servant, so 
offending, and being thereof convicted, in due form of law, 
shall be deemed guilty of felony, and shall suffer death as a 
felon, without benefit of clergy* 

Signed, by order of the House, 
FREDERICK A* MUHLENBERG, Speaker. 

Enacted into a Law, at Philadelphia, on Monday, 
the eighteenth day of March, in the year erf* 
our Lord one thousand seven hundred eighty 
and two. 

PETER Z. LLOYD, 

Clerk of the General Assembly. 



PRECEDING GOKSIDERATIOlfS. 425 



Philadelphia, February 9, 1782. 

SIR, 

. THE president) directors and company of the Bank of 
North America, incorporated by the United States of America 
10 congress assembled, have thought it proper to petition tjie 
General Assembly of Pennsylvania for a similar charter) and 
such further support from the legislature of the state, as may 
render the bank capable of yielding those advantages to the 
general cause of America, which are intended thereby : and 
this institution being encouraged and supported by citizens of 
other states, as well as that in which it happens to be estab- 
lished, the most respectful and proper mode of presenting 
the petition to that honourable house appearing to be through 
the supreme executive council of the state, we have enclosed 
the same to you, and request that you will please to lay it be- 
fore the general assembly as soon as they shall me^t** I have 
the honour to be^ 

Your excellency's most obedient servant, 
THOMAS WILLING, President. 

His excellency William Moore, Esq. President. 



An Act to incorporate this Subscribers to the Bank of North 

America. 

Sect. I. WHEREAS the United States in congress as- 
sembled, from a conviction of the support which the finances 
of the United States would receive from the establishment of 
a national bank, passed an ordinance to incorporate the sub- 
scribers for this purpose, by the name and style of " The Pre- 
sident, Directors) and Company of the Bank of North ' Ame- 
Fica :" 



4)6 APPENDIX TO THE 

And whereas the president and directors of the said bank 
have applied to this house for a similar act of incorporation, 
which request it is proper and reasonable to grant : 

Sect. IL Be it therefore enacted, and it is hereby enacted 
by the representatives of the freemen of the commonwealth 
of Pennsylvania, in general assembly met, and by the authority 
of the same. That those who are, and those who shall become 
subscribers to the said bank, be and for ever hereafter shall 
be a corporation and body politick, to all intents and purposes, 
by th« name and style of" The President, Directors and Com- 
pany of the Bank of North America.*' 

Sect. III. And be it further enacted by the authority afore- 
said. That th« said corporation are hereby declared and made 
able and capable in law, to have, purchase, receive, possess, 
enjoy and retain lands, rents, tenements, hereditaments, goods, 
chattels and effects, of what kind, nature or quality soever, to 
the amount often millions of Spanish silver milled dollars, and 
no more. And also to sell, grant, demise, alien, or dispose 
of the same lands, rents, tenements, hereditaments, goods, 
chattels and effects. 

Sect. IV. And bo it further enacted by the authority afore- 
said. That the said corporation be, and shall be for ever here- 
after, able and capable in law to sue and be sued, plead and 
be impleaded, answer and be answered unto, defend and h% 
defended, in courts of record, or any other place whatsoever 
and to do and execute all and singular other matters and 

things, that to them shall or may appertain to do* 

« 

Sect» V. And be it further enacted by the authority afot^- 
said. That for the well governing of the said corporation, and 
the ordering of their affairs, they shall have such officers as 
they shall hereafter direct or appoint. Provided nevertheless, 



PRECEDING CONSIDERATIONS. > 437 

r » 

That twelve directors, one of whom shall be the president of 
the corporation, be of the number of their officers* 

Sect. VI. And be it further enacted by the authority afore- 
said, That Thomas Willing be the present president, and that 
the said Thomas Willing, and Thomas Fitzsimons, John Max« 
well Nesbitt, James Wilson, Henry Hill, Samuel Osgoodj 
Cadwallader Mon:is, Samuel Engles, Samuel Meredith, Wil- 
liam Bingham, Timothy Matlack and Andrew Caldwell, be the 
present directors of the said corporation, and shall so continue 
until another president and other directors shall be chosen, 
according; to the laws and regulations of the said corporation. 

Sect. Vn. And be it further enacted by the authority afore- 
said. That the president and directors of the said corporation 
shall be capable of exercising such powers, for the well govern- 
ing and ordering of the affairs of the said corporation, and of 
holding such occasional meetings for that purpose, as shall be 
described, fixed and determined by the laws, regulations and 
ordinances of the said corporation. 

Sect. Vni. And be it further enacted by the authority 
aforesaid. That the said corporation may make, ordain, esta- 
blish and put in execution such laws, ordinances and regula* 
tions, as shall seem necessary and convenient for the govern- 
ment of the said corporation. 

Sect. IX. Provided always. That nothing 'herein before 
contained shall be construed to authorize the said corporation 
to exercise any powers in this state, repugnant to the laws or 
constitution thereof* 

Sect. X. And be it further enacted by the authority afore- 
said. That the said corporation shall have full power and 
authority to make, have and use a common seal, with such, 
devices and inscription as they shall think proper, and the same 
'to break) alter and reneW) at their pleasure. 



4a« 



^n%Jllt>l% TO TH£ 



Sect* XI* And be it furtjier enacted by the authority afore- 
said, That this act shall be coD&trued and Uken most favour- 
ably and beneficially for the said corporation* 

Signed, by order of the House, 

FREDERICK A. MUHLENBERG, Speaker. 

Inacted into' a Law, at Philadelphia, on Monday, 
the first day of April, in the year of our-Lord 
one thousand seven hundred eighty and two* 

PETER Z. LLOYD, 

Clerk of the General Assembly* 



ON the I6th day of February, 1782, advanced to the United 
States, on behalf of Pennsylvania, 80,000 dollars* 

At different times in If 83, advanced to the commissioners 
for defence of the river and bay of Delaware, the sum of about 
33,500 dollars* 

On the 1 7th day of September, 1783, advanced to the state 
treasurer, for defence of the western frontiers, upon application 
of the house of assembly, 13,333 1-3 dollars, in part of a larger 
turn agreed to be lent, as the necessity of the state might 
require ; but upon advice from the British commander in 
chief, that the Indians were called off our frontiers, this re- 
quisition stopped, and no further sum was taken out. of the 
bank* 

On the 18th day of April, 1784, paid the speaker's draft 
on the treasurer, accepted by himy in favour of James Mease, 
U,OCK) doUftTS* 



p 



vrecedHig considerations. 



439 



On the 6th of Januarjr, 1785, lent the managers of the 
house of employment, 4)000 dollars. 

Or the 26th of January, 178S, lent the city wardens the 
sum of 3,400 dollars* 



FINII, 



«. 



