4 September 1, 1780 ent controversy, but was well affected to this country, and was deter mined if possible to get from under the power of the Enemy, with all his effects, and Settle in Some one of the united States. These things were not only Said by himself, but confirmed by Doctr Wm. Smith late of Long Island, who has been for Some years a Surgeon in the continental Hospital, & Served with fidelity and reputation. Your Excellency We believe has Some knowledge of him, both he & Dr. Howell are well known to Col. Floyd. It was well known to Congress that his Effects were chiefly English goods, which he had obtained by drawing a prize in the British State Lottery. There was Nothing Mandatory in the Protection Granted by Con gress, or that interfered with the Laws or Government of any States, but it was a notification that Congress approved of his coming off from Long Island with his effects, and a protection against capture by cruisers under commissions from the United States. There is a general resolution of Congress, that persons coming from Great Brit ain or Ireland with their effects to Settle in these States Shall be exempted from capture, and a Protection was lately granted to Doctr. Shields & Some other Gentlemen from Ireland, to bring their effects to this City. And does not Justice as well as policy require that Citizens of any of the united States, Should be protected in coming with their property from under the power of the Enemy, who have not for feited that right by any Crime against their country? If this person has been Guilty of any fraud by covering Illicit Trade under his Protection, we wish he may be detected & Suffer; but we have No Suspicions of that kind, but believe he has an honest bona fide intention to get, and keep clear of the enemy. The Several resolutions which concern the States, will be forwarded to Your Excellency by the President. We are with Sentiments of the Greatest respect, Your Excellency’s Obedient humble Servants, Roger Sherman Benj Huntington RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Sherman and signed by Sherman and Benjamin Huntington. 1 Congress had recently received two August 21 letters from Governor Trum bull. One concerned the seizure of George Howell and was read in Congress on August 28; the second enclosed a copy of the proceedings of the convention of com missioners from Connecticut, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire and was read in Congress on August 29. See JCC, 17:788, 790, 792, 795-96; and PCC, item 66, 2:75, 91-92. 2 Official notice of the American defeat at Camden, S.C., came in an August 20 letter of Gen. Horatio Gates, which was read in Congress on August 31. JCC, 17:797; and Samuel Huntington to General Washington, August 31, 1780, note. 3 This committee, of which Sherman was a member, had been appointed August 11. JCC, 17:723. 4 See Sherman to Trumbull, July 22, 1780, note 2. 5 See Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene, August 29, 1780, note 3.
