6 September 1, 1780 The Propriety of a full Examination into the Circumstances of this Case is obvious and will doubtless be made by the proper Authority. The Practice of admitting proper Characters to remove from under the British Government with their Effects and unite with us was adopted upon mature Deliberation, as founded, not only on Princi ples of Justic & Humanity, but Policy. The Instances have been frequent, and tho’ Congress are very jealous & cautious not to admit an Enemy, or be deceived by an Impostor, and if Howell on Exami nation should be found such it will be the first Instance I have known or heard of. Your Excellency will recollect the resolution of Congress in Favor of Persons with their Effects coming from Ireland to settle in these United States, exempting them from Capture, which hath ever been in Force from the Commencement of Captures by Sea; and the Case of an Inhabitant of these United States who hath the Misfortune to fall under the Power of the Enemy within their Lines is a much Stronger Case in Favor of the Subject if he be a Friend to his Coun try and hath Opportunity to escape with his Effects. The Case of Mr Howell will depend upon the Character & Con duct of the Man, but the Principles upon which Congress acted, are the same by which they have been uniformly governed in repeated Instances, ever Since the Declaration of Independance. I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect and Esteem, your Excellency’s most obedient servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Trumbull’s August 21 letter to Huntington with its several enclosures is in PCC, item 66, 2:91-113. For an explanation of the “Passport granted to him,” see Hun tington to Thomas Mumford, August 26, 1780, note 1. George Howell had been granted a passport by Congress in July to convey per sonal property from Long Island to Rhode Island, a decision that was protested by Connecticut on the grounds that he was an “inimical” person and had obtained his passport by deception. In his August 21 letter to Congress, however, Trumbull had focused on the states rights implications of the case as much as the impolicy of Congress’ approval of Howell’s petition, and it was this concern more than any other that explains the congressional response to Trumbull’s complaints. The gover nor had been brutally blunt, and the emphasis given to his letter by the words under lined touched a sensitive nerve in most delegates. “I could not conceive,” Trumbull explained to Huntington, ‘ ‘that Congress under the proposed articles of Confedera tion have a right to, or much less in the present unconnected, unfederated state of the union, would assume such diction as the permission conveys— ‘Commanding’ all Gover nors, Generals &c to afford protection in pursuance of his said permit.” PCC, item 66, 2:91-94. Thus it is not surprising that the committee to whom Trumbull’s let ter was referred disavowed any congressional intent “to contravene the laws, or interfere with the civil police of any State,” but Congress nevertheless stopped short of disavowing its decision, content to await the outcome of further investigation,.and instead merely ordered Huntington to explain to Trumbull the circumstances of George Howell’s application.” SeeJCC, 17:788, 795-96.
