10 September 2, 1780 as great and as gallant an opposition as it was possible so small a Force could make against one so vastly superior”. This account I suppose the General gives from the known and established valor of the Troops; it could not be from his knowledge of the Action, for he does not appear, by his Letter to have seen the regular Troops after two oClock in the morning when the first skirmish took place. As the State of Maryland was deeply interested in this Action, I thought it my Duty to move that the Letter should be published, but Congress determined and I now believe very wisely, that it should not. It must be known sooner or later, and whenever it is, you will join with me in pronouncing it a very extraordinary one. I Shall forbear at present to make any observation lest my resentment should carry me beyond the bounds of propriety and Justice. Col. Ramsey who will have the Honour of delivering you this Letter will explain to you the line of March, the order of Battle, and the State in which our troops were left—from the last information we can collect from the Gentelmen sent by General Gates with the Intelligence. It is believed, for my own part I have no doubt, knowing what passed previous to the action, that their Fate is a severe one: Tho I hope it is not so bad as their fugitive General expresses it in the two first lines of his Letter. “In the deepest distress and Anxiety of mind, I am obliged to acquaint your Excellency with the total Defeat of the Troops under my Command.” Reports, which the two officers bring, say that many officers fell; among the rest General Smallwood, Col. Gunby, Majr. Winder, Majr Roxburg, Capt. Brooks (reduced to a certainty), Col Armong &c &c &c. 4 I trust this voluminous Catalogue will considerably diminish when we have a more accurate account; some of our officers will no doubt escape. Till then, or the return of a Flag sent in by General Gates, we must remain in the dark. For further information on this melancholy subject, I refer you to my friend Col. Ramsey. I am, Sir, with the highest respect and Esteem, Yrs, J. Henry Junr. RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 For the Maryland Council’s August 26 letter to its delegates, see Md. Archives, 43:266-67. Since Maryland’s embargo law was contingent on the continuation of the embargo in Pennsylvania and Delaware, the Council had directed the delegates to make inquiries concerning “the Revival of the Pennsylvania Act, and the Conduct . . . of Delaware.” 2 Robert R. Livingston had introduced several proposals designed to bolster the credit of the United States, among them a recommendation that the states “repeal all embargoes and other restrictions” on trade except those intended to prevent trade with the enemy, which were referred to a committee on ways and means on August 22. See JCC, 17:758-59. 3 See Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, September 1, 1780, note 2. 4 That is, Gen. William Smallwood, Col. John Gunby, Maj. Levin Winder, Maj. Alexander Roxburg, Capt. Benjamin Brooks, and Col. Charles Armand-Tuffin, marquis de la Rouerie.
