Septembers, 1780 15 angry with Somebody, as neither Congress or the Minister have yet received a single Letter brought by the Alliance twenty days ago. Your most obedt. J L RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 3:409. 1 These bills had been drawn to settle the balance due John Adams on his accounts with Congress, for which see Lovell to John Adams, May 4, and to Abigail, May 14, 1780. Lovell had been holding them for the opportunity of a dependable conveyance, having previously discussed them in the following undated note— which has an August 29 postscript—to Abigail. “I have this day only reed. Bills of Excha. for the Balce. of Mr Adams’s Accounts. I doubt not you will think just as I do about the whole Business. It has had an ungraceful Air. “Augst. 29th. I cannot tell when I wrote the few Lines above, but I well know I have not had any private Hand to send by, nor will I this day send by the Post. These Bills will sell better than at 90 days Sight and much better than at 6 months. But better or worse I believe you had best forward them to Mr. A. My opinion however ought to have no Weight in Comparison of your Uncle Smith’s.” Adams Papers, MHi. 2 An April 10 letter of John Adams had been read in Congress on September 1, but one of May 23 had been previously received on August 2\.JCC, 17:749, 798. However, as Adams wrote three letters to Congress on April 10, it is not known which of them was actually read on September 1. None of the copies in PCC indi cate having been read on September 1, although one is endorsed “Rec’d Sept. 4. ” PCC, item 84, 1:437-46. Nathaniel Peabody to Ephraim Blaine Sir. Morris Town Sepr. 3d. 1780. It is the earnest request of General Schuyler, and Mr Mathews, the latter being gone to Philadelphia, and the former to the State of New York, as well as my own, that you will be pleased to furnish us, with a monthly return of the supplies furnished by the state of Pensylvania, from the 1st of May, to the 11th of August last, and which you will send, as soon as possible, inclosed to me at this place. 1 I am, Sir, With great respect, Your most, humble Servt, Nathl. Peabody Tr (DNA: PCC, item 11). 1 Peabody, who had been assisting in the preparation of the committee at headquarters’ report of its proceedings while convalescing at Morristown, was writing to the commissary general of purchases on behalf of the committee even though it had been formally “discharged” the previous month. See John Mathews to Philip Schuyler, August 23, 1780.
