36 September?, 1780 all except one Regt, of Nth. Carols, commanded, on the occasion by a continental Col. Dixon. These with the Regulars bravely stood & pushed Bayonets to the last. When overpowered by numbers they retreated well and being pursued by Horse repulsed and compleately vanquished them. A Wounded officer is confident that only two of the Party escaped. Col. Sumpter who had been successful in taking a Party of the Enemy a day or two before with 40 amunition Waggons was overtaken by Horse and lost all again with some muskets into the Bargain. Genl. Nash & Govr. Jefferson write most agreably as to the Spirit with which this Defeat is repairing. Ten such are nothing if—if there is enough of Virtue to support a paper Currency. While the new money is as silver and gold eastward it is far otherwise here. I cannot attribute the Conduct of their People to a settled Enmity to our Cause but to a damnably debauched Temper, too much riveted, which was generated by a depreciating medium, if solid Coin only was in this Quarter it would require much time to correct the most exorbitant Disposition of the People who chop & change. No decission is yet made upon those Parts of yr. Letters which demand one. I have before told you that the Disposition here is the same as you discover upon all the Points but a definite order cannot be passed to govern you under all Contingencies considering how opposite to one another they may prove in a short Space of Time. I have not lately heard from Mrs. Adams. Doctr. Holten writes me Aug 21 that he had not seen Mr Lee who was gone to visit Mrs. A at Braintree. I have sent him Bills of Exch. on Doctr. F 2 at 60 days Sight for 500 dolls, 501 */ 4 having been decided as the Balance of yr. acct. I have told you that R I 3 charged in a Lump 1600 Louis per An. Expences and that his Bal. was pd. He said he did not go to Vouchers of Barbers & Taylors and Bakers Bills in his private and therefore not in his public Concerns. Which of the Precedents already set the other Gentlemen will follow may be easily guessed. My own family was in a distressed Condition. Wife, only Daughter & oldest Son in Bed the whole family a Sacrifice to Extortion and much involved. I have sold myself for 14 years, 4 I imagine by staying here almost 4 even if the same generous Allowance should be made to me as was to you for Service. Being here and master of Books & files & Dates I will not seriously think of quitting till A.L. is as far gone as R. I. 5 Give my Love to all your Connexions. I suppose Gerry will write often by way of Gardoqui from Marblehead in Boston. The army is to have pay made good. The Genl. Officers are to have a 7 years provision proportionate to their pay and to receive Lands also proportionate. Widows & Children to have the Benefit of late Husbands & Fathers. In short we had once an Army fighting for
