38 September?, 1780 official papers ready, except the letter, the subject of this discussion which he expected from the grounds mentioned, applied to Mr. Glascock, the Speaker, respecting it, who told him that the Committee had not yet drawn it up. That he believes it to have been post-poned, on account of other pressing business, until near the rising of the House, which it did abruptly, many of the members being obliged to go out with the Militia; not, however, without ordering the letter to be completed, and the Speaker being of the Committee, was directed and said that he would sign it: but before it was done he went into South-Carolina, telling the underwritten, with whom he lived at the time, that he had desired the Committee to subscribe his name to it. And the underwritten now officially & solemnly declares, that, previous to his dispatching the Express to Congress, the honorable Richard Howly, esquire, Chairman of the Committee, delivered him the said letter or address, signed with the name & addition of the Speaker; and which folding up to the size of his packet, he superscribed it with the usual address, and transmitted the same to the President of Congress, as he deemed it his duty to do. He would content himself with having answered as to the authenticity of that paper, as far as he knows or is concerned; but he cannot forbear to observe, that some indulgence is due to the proceedings of a Country, surrounded by and full of Enemies, where members of the Legislature were obliged to sit in Council at day, and scout against the Enemy by night, and where some irregularities, by consequence, ought to be expected in the transaction of public business. Should the merits of the particular clause in the said address, respecting Brigadier-general McIntosh, and its counter-part contained in Mr. Glascock’s letter—signed it is true by him-self, but written by the panegyrist of that Officer—be made the subject of inquiry, he shall not fail to present a memorial of facts upon that point. Done at Philadelphia, the 7 day of September, 1780. Geo Walton RC (DNA: PCC, item 73). Endorsed by Charles Thomson: “Memorial G. Walton, Read Sept 8. 1780. Referred to the comee on the letter of 12 May from W. Glascock.” 1 For the background of this case, which focused on the removal of Gen. Lachlan McIntosh from the Continental service in the southern department the previous February, see these Letters, 14:420. The May 12 letter of Speaker William Glascock denying active participation in McIntosh’s removal had been read in Congress on September 6 and assigned to Samuel Adams, James Duane, and Abraham Clark. This committee sought testimony from the two Georgia delegates in Congress— ex-governor Walton and present governor Richard Howly—who had led the anti McIntosh faction in the Georgia assembly. Walton’s “Memorial,” printed here, was read in Congress on September 8 and was closely supported the following day by statements from Howly and Georgia assembly clerk George Seegar, who was
