44 September 9, 1780 not yet done that. I wish to hear from you on this Subject, also by every good Opportunity, on any you may think Necessary to write, I could write often, could you direct Persons coming up here to call on me when in Town—my Time being taken up in Congress & on Committees I miss seeing Many who come up here. There is a handsome Pair of Horses in Town for Sale, about 7 years old, Bays & of good Sise, & well broke as tis said, & I cannot speak precisely as to the Price, but believe they may be purchased reasonable; I know your Excellency stands in Need of another Pair, I therefore move that your Honor would be pleased to sell your old Horses & Carriage & renew them by Purchase, or if you please purchase & then sell, however your Answer on the Subject I shall observe. Please present my Complims. to Miss Willson. I have the Honor to be, with great Esteem, yr. Excellency’s Most obdt. Hble Servt. Nichs. Van Dyke RC (NjMoHP: Lloyd W. Smith Collection). 1 That is, Gen. Mordecai Gist. Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Dear Sir, Philadelphia Sepr. 10th. 1780. Offensive opperations are no longer talked of for this Campaign. Our Thoughts are now Turned to consider what our Army will be on the first of January Next, which appears Molancolly but our thoughts are here interupted by reports still more Molencolly that of our present Army starving. I have letters from Genl officers Dated Hackinsack Sepr. 5th Avering the Army had been served with meat only two Days in Seven including the 5th And no prospect of Any. It is my private opinion if the states do not comply more fully with the recommendations of Congress the Army will disband. Can we expect they will stay in the field with out pay or Subsistence. It is well known Congress have no money at Command, either to pay for Subsistance or wages. Who is to blame I cannot say but I am confident it is in our power to give the Troops meat if we cannot give them pay, which hath not been the case for half the days the Month past. The Army now live principally by plunder both for meat & forrage. And will if they keep together I fear soon become freebooters. And I think every man must feel for the Inhabitants where the Army marches. Since I wrote you last 1 Intelegance hath been receivd from Governor Nash that Genl Smallwood and Guist with about 300 of the Maryland & Deleware Troops cut their way throg[h] the Enemy after General Gates left them and made their retreat good to Sharlott
