September 11, 1780 49 present my Compliments to Mr. Thos. Burke, and inform him, that with perseverence I have procured a place in the Hospital Department, for my unfortunate countryman of whom we Spoke before he left Philada. Adieu Dear General, may that God whos mercies are Over all his Other Works guide & protect you—and be not discouraged. John Armstrong [P.S. ] I shall write my Son by Major MaGuill—then intend to retire, my Strength, talents & constitutional time in Congress, being very near a period. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). A continuation of Armstrong to Gates, September 3, 1780. i Maj. Charles Magill, Gates’ aide-de-camp. 2 Undoubtedly Gates’ August 30 letter to Congress, for which see the postscript of Samuel Huntington to Gates, September 12, 1780. John Hanson to Charles Carroll of Carrollton Dear sir Philadelphia Sep. 11th 1780 I have been Confined to my Room a fortnight, and was so unwell When the last post set out, that I was not able to Write, I am now on the recovery, and hope to be able to attend Congress in a day or two. I inclosed you Some time ago a Curious Historical Annecdote, delivered in may last, by sir John Dalrymple, to the Court of Spain. 1 As you have Said nothing about it, am afraid it has not Come to hand. Congress received a letter by Express from Gen Gates dated Hillsborough August 20th giving an Account (tho’ a very Confused one) of His unfortunate Defeat near Camden, on the 16th. He says he marched about 10 oClock in the night of the 15th, to possess himself of an advantageous peice of Ground about Seven miles from Camden. About 2 oClock in the Morning His light Horse was attacked by those of the Enemies but were repulsed. Upon this he halted the Army, and nothing more happened till about break of Day, When he was attacked by the Whole furie of the Enemy. His Army was drawn up with the Virginia Militia on the left, the North Carolina militia in the Center and General Gist on the right—General Smallwood was in the rear, as a Corps De’reserve. The Militia to a man fled the first fire, and left our brave regulars to Sustain the Whole force of the Enemy. General Gates went of[f] with the Militia, endeavouring to rally them, but to no purpose, and while he was thus engaged He Says the fireing between the two Armies Ceased, by which he Concluded all was over, and therefore made the best of his Way to Hillsborough Where he arrived the 19th performing a Journey of 196 miles in less than four days. He Knows nothing
