50 September 11, 1780 of What became of the Regulars, but says he should immediately Send off a flag to gain the necessary information. Saturday last an Express Arrived from Governor Nash dated the 26th Advising that Generals Smallwood, And Gist, had bravely Cut their Way thro’ the Enemy With about 400 men—that the Militia were again Collecting, that they had got together between two and three thousand, regulars included. This day another letter has been received from Gen. Gates With a list of the Officers that are Safe to Wit Generals Smallwood and Gist, Colos. Williams, Gunby and about 700 privates. The list also Contains the Names of those officers that are missing, but I have not Seen it, neither Can I procure a Copy to Send you by this Opportunity. Baron de Calmb is Dead of His wounds. Our loss on the Whole about 500 and that of the Enemy as many. We have also lost all our Baggage Waggons and Eight pieces of Cannon. Our main Army is in the greatest distress for want of provisions Were Without meat from the 21st to the 26th and Some have not had one day With another not one third allowance. The general moved into the neighborhood of Fort Lee with a View of Stripping that part of the Country of the remainder of its Cattle Which after a most rigorous exertion afforded only two or three days supply and this Consisting of milch Cows and Calves of one or two years old. This manner of procuring is very distressing and attended With ruin to the morals and discipline of the Army, during the five days Which small partys were Sent out to procure provisions for themselves, the most enormous excesses were Committed. It has been no inconsiderable Support to our Cause to have had it in our power to Contrast the Conduct of our Army With that of the Enemy, and to Convince the Inhabitants, that While their rights were Wantonly Violated by the British Troops, by ours they were respected. This distinction must now unhapily Cease, and we must assume the Odious Character of the plunderers instead of the protectors of the people, the direct Consequence of Which must be to Aleniate their minds from the Army, and insensably from the Cause—in short, if this method of procuring provisions for the Army is not very speedily prevented, by an exertion of the States in Sending forward Supplies the Army must disband, and we are undone. It is reported and Credited by many that a french fleet of 18 Ships of the line and some frigates are on the Coast. They were Seen it is Said Some days ago to the Northward of our Capes. Our new raised Battalion is ordered by the general to the Southward. My Compliments to the family And Am with the most Sincere respect, Dr. sir, your most hble Servt, J° hn Hanson RC (MdHi: Carroll Papers). 1 For this “Curious Historical Anecdote,” see Hanson to Carroll, August 29, 1780.
