September 12, 1780 61 campaign will inspire our Enemy as well as to give greater authority & vigor to our public councils, they have recommended in the most pressing terms to the States claiming unappropriated back lands, to cede a liberal portion of them for the general benefit. As these exclusive claims formed the only obstacle with Maryland there is no doubt that a compliance with this recommendation will bring her into the confederation. How far the States holding the back lands may be disposed to give them up cannot be so easily determind. From the sentiments of the most intelligent persons which have come to my knowledge, I own I am pretty sanguine that they will see the necessity of closing the union in too strong a light to oppose the only expedient that can accomplish it. Another circumstance that ought greatly to encourage us under disappointed expectations from the campaign is the combination of the Maritime powers in support of their neutral rights, and particularly the late insolent and provoking violation of those rights by the English Ships at St. Martins. It is not probable that the injured will be satisfied without reparations & acknowledgements which the pride of Britain will not submit to, and if she can ever be embroiled in an altercation with so formidable a league, the result must necessarily be decisively in our favour. Indeed It is not to be supposed after the amazing resources which have been seen in G. Britain when not only deprived of but opposed by her antient colonies, and the success of the latter in resisting for so long a time the utmost exertion of their resources against her, that the Maritime powers who appear to be so jealous of their rights will ever suffer an event to take place which must very soon expose them to be trampled on at pleasure of G. Britain. I must beg you once for all to excuse the inaccuracies with which the hurry of the post day will deface my letters. With sincere regard I am, Dr Sir yr. Obt friend & Servt. James Madison Junr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:80-82. 1 See ibid, pp. 65-67. 2 See Samuel Huntington to the States, September 10, 1780. John Mathews to Catharine Livingston Philadelphia Septr. 12th. 1780 Your 1 friend Mrs. Morris 2 is much indisposed, owing, as I am told, to a severe cold caught by bathing, in this late chilly weather. By accounts yesterday & the day before from the Capes of Virginia, a fleet of twelve sail of the line, & seven frigates passed by there a few days ago, bound to Rhode Island. It is a part of the French West
