62 September 12, 1780 India fleet, I suppose intended to cover the junction of the second division of their fleet from Europe, with the one already at R.I. Our affairs to the Southward wear a much better aspect, than was at first represented, we shall be able in a very little time, again to look the myrmidons in the face. I wrote to you the 8th 3 mentioning our intended visit to you, in order to deprive your domestic friends of your agreeable society, that others may have an opportunity of participating of it, they can’t be so niggardly, as to think of Keeping you entirely to themselves, however dear, & thereby depriving the rest of your extensive acquaintance of an equal share of happiness. Why Lord! if you were to be buried at Elizabeth this winter, you wou’d get the hip. I hope soon to receive your orders to hold myself in readiness to march at an hours warning, which I shall obey with the greatest pleasure and punctuality: indeed we are already making preparations for the jaunt. The piece of a news paper containing some verses was the only thing in it worth your purusal, therefore took them out that I might not incumber your letter. I imagine the verses to be Mrs. D’Lancey’s. I also send you this days paper. Whilst Peabody remains at Morris town, I have no doubt of your getting them safe, but when he comes away I shall follow your directions, & direct them to the Printer at Chatham. Adieu my most Amiable friend, & believe me ever unalterably the same, J no Matthews [P.5. ] My best respect to Mamma, Sister Susan & c. RC (MHi: Ridley Papers). 1 Mathews had apparently become acquainted with Catharine Livingston (1751-1813), daughter of New Jersey governor William Livingston, and other members of the family while traveling extensively in northern New Jersey as a member of the Committee at Headquarters from April to August 1780. Six letters in the William Livingston Papers, MHi, reveal the extent of his friendship with Catharine as well as his infatuation with her older sister Susan or Susannah (1748-1840). In these letters to the Livingston sisters Mathews expressed great concern over Susan’s delicate health and great delight in her goodness of heart, her good sense, her easy politeness & affability.” Although letters from Susan, his “Charming Friend,” have apparently not survived, Mathews read them with “excessive joy.” The Livingston Papers also contain a rendering of verse from Paradise Lost in Mathews’ hand, dated “August 21: 1780, ” in which he characterized Susan: “Grace was in all her steps heav’n in her eye, in every gesture dignity and love. ’ ’ For these Mathews letters in the Livingston Papers, see under the dates May 29, July 20, October 1 and 30, 1780, and March 17 and April 18, 1781. A seventh letter, to Susan, written in “May 1781,” is in the Norton Collection, OCIWHi. 2 Probably Mary White Morris, wife of Robert Morris, at whose home Catharine often stayed when in Philadelphia. 3 Not found.
