72 September 16, 1780 Congress are determined to use every possible Means in their Power to prevent any future Distress in the Army for Want of Provision. It is supposed from the best Computation, of the Quantity of Beef called for by these resolutions should be furnished, it will be more than sufficient for the daily Consumption of the Army, in which Case the Surplus, of the most suitable Quality will be barrelled for future Use. I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, your Excellency’s most obedient Servant, Sam Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. i See JCC, 18:828. Huntington’s September 20 letter to Gen. William Smallwood notifying him of this promotion is in PCC, item 15, fol. 110. For his letter to Skinner, dated September 16, see ibid., fol. 109. 2 See Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., September 15, 1780. Roger Sherman to Jean Holker Sir. Philadelphia. Septer. the 16th. 1780. I laid your Letter of the 11th Instant, before the Committee, 1 and on Consideration of your representation of the circumstances of the Case they agree to Receive the 243047 dollars in Continental Currency, due for provisions furnished By Peter Colt. If you draw an order for the payment of it, please to draw in favor of Michael Hillegas treasurer of the united States. I called Several times at your house to have Some farther Conference respecting Ephraim Blaine’s account you Say I omitted to enclose. I had it before me when I wrote, and cant find it among my papers since, But will furnish you with another coppy if need full. I am with due Respect, your humble Servant, Signed Roger Sherman Tr (DLC: Holker Papers). In a clerical hand. 1 That is, the “committee to whom were referred the accounts of Mr. Holker,” which was appointed on August 28 with Sherman as chairman. Before the committee made any recommendations to settle the accounts, however, Congress adopted a motion offered by Sherman on October 3 to discharge the committee and refer the accounts to the Board of Treasury. JCC, 17:787, 790, 18:893. John Sullivan to Meshech Weare Dear Sir Philadelphia September 16 1780 Congress have not yet come to a Single resolution Respecting Vermont Though it has been five Days on the Tapis. 1 New York Seems Disposed to have a Determination against its being an
