September 16, 1780 73 Independant State, & then to have Comissrs. appointed to Say whether it falls to New York or New Hampr. General Foulsom & myself have opposed this & urged the appointment of Commisioners in the first Instance, both upon principles of policy, & upon a Conviction of the want of power in Congress To take any other Steps agreable to the Articles of Confederation. I Last Evening received Letters from Several Persons of Note in that Quarter & the adjacent Parts of New Hampr Expressive of the Sentiments of the people assuring me that a Division of the grants will be Disagreable to all; That if Congress are Determined they Shall not be Independant Seven Eighths of them will Petition Congress to Reunite them to New Hampr. Colo Alcott 2 of Vermont waited on me & assured me that this was the General Sentiment of the People. I Shall therefore be Less violent in my opposition to that Question in future. I am Exceeding happy to find that New York have appointed three Gentlemen 3 of high Spirits & all Deeply Interested in the Event To appear as agents for that State breathing out nothing but Death & Slaughter against those people who have So Long Set their authority at Defiance & painting the Bitter Enmity which they have Ever Discovered against the Yorkers. To this I have Endeavored to oppose the moderate Spirit of New Hampshire; her readiness to Acquiese in the Determination of Congress & Even though the Land is Clearly within her Limits to Submit to its being a Seperate State if Congress Should find it for The good of the whole. I have assisted the Yorkers in Establishing the Fact of an utter aversion in those people to Live under their Jurisdiction; & at the Same time have taken Care to mention the Harmony which has Ever Subsisted between them & New Hampshire. This I find is Likely to have the Effect Intended. The Members begin to See that If the Lands are adjudged to NewYork the Continent must be Involved in a war to Inforce the Determination of Congress which Can only be avoided by adjudging it to New Hampr. & I am Convinced this will finally Turn the Scale in favor of New Hampshire. 4 I wish to have forwarded to me as Soon as possible one of the New Hampshire Law Books in which is Governor Wentworths Commission as the Secretary has only furnished me with an Extract from it without Date. I am Indeed ashamed of the papers furnished from New Hampshire & hope for Success rather from Political Considerations than from any other motive. A material paper is the prohibition to the Governor of New York in 1767 to Exercise Jurisdiction or grant Lands in that Territory. This I cannot obtain. New York agents are possessed of but will not produce it. I apprehend it must be in the Secretarys office; the Several papers which I wrote for when at Home or Such of them as can be procured ought to be forwarded. The Southern Members are as Ignorant of the History of New England as we are of the Lands under the Poles. I procured Some useful papers in Connecticut & hope to
