74 September 16, 1780 obtain more before the final Tryal. I Shall also be glad of Every Evidence that New Hampshire can furnish; & of their Instruction from time to time. We have nothing new Since Genl. Gates’s Defeat. I have Seen a private Letter from Genl. Smallwood giving a particular Account of the Action. The Loss on our Side was about two hundred, the Enemys five hundred, the Brave Marylanders after being Deserted by the Militia & the Commander in Chief performed wonders, & Retired with Regularity. General Smallwood had not heard of General Gates when he wrote as he had retired 200 miles from the place of Action before he wrote the Letter which So much frightened those who believed it of which I never was in the number. We have this Day reed. Intelligence from New York that the Second Division of the French Fleet is on the Coast. I rejoice that Genl Washington gives New Hampshire Credit for Complying with the requisitions of Congress better than any other State. I wish her to Continue her Exertions as the Army is Literally Starving & I fear will Disband. We are using Every Exertion to Remedy the Evils which Surround us, but it is a very Late Hour for the Business, though I hope not too Late. I have the honor to be most respectfully, Dear Sir Your most obedt Servt. J no Sullivan RC (Nh-Ar: Vermont Controversy). 1 See Samuel Adams to John Lowell, September 15, 1780. 2 Col. Peter Olcott of Norwich, Vt., was in Philadelphia as an agent of Vermont and he was one of the agents summoned by Congress on September 19 to attend its debates on the controversy. JCC, 18:839-40. See also Samuel Adams to John Lowell, September 15, 1780, note 3. 3 That is, James Duane, Robert R. Livingston, and John Morin Scott. 4 For an assessment of the success of Sullivan’s tactics, see John Morin Scott to George Clinton, September 26, 1780. Nicholas Van Dyke to Caesar Rodney Honor’d Sir, 16 Septr. 1780. Your Excellency has or soon will receive an Application from Congress requesting an immediate Supply of 500 Head of Beef Cattle; 1 the same request has been made on Pennsylvania & Newjersey, the army at present is very near being without Meat, owing to the Change in the Quarter Master’s Department having caused some Delay in forwarding Supplies of that Article from the Eastward; the wheels are now begining to move & I hope our Army will not again be reduced to such Distress, they have a tollerable Supply of Flour, but it will be very Necessary that the several States exert themselves in sending forward Flour, & short Forage while the
