76 September 16, 1780 Navigation is open & the Roads good; I informed Congress that our Assembly at their last Sessions, had in Compliance with the Requisition from Head Quarters 2 made Provision for to supply the Cattle required, Monthly—and under that it was probable some Cattle might soon be procured; pray Sir urge the Purchasers or Collectors of Supplies in the respective Counties to an immediate Exertion, to procure the Cattle; and send them forward, even 1, or 200 in a Drove; could Mr. Blane have Notice when any Number can be at Wilmington he would Convey them from thence; under the Act of Assembly refered to if my Memory serves me, Cattle were to be purchased & Certificates given for them, or seised, or to be received in lieu of the Monthly Tax, it is necessary they be procured either one or other Ways, I shall endeavor to have the Expence of driving paid by Mr. Blane or the Quarter Master as soon as possible. I can give you nothing New, I write in a hurry, the City is very sickly—but not so Mortal as sickly. By late Accounts from the Southard, our Force is more respectable than ever, and in a fair Way to drive & beat Cornwallis by defeating him, & not by being defeated, it is pretty clear that such another Victory would ruin his Lordship. With Complimt. to Miss Willson, I am yr. Excellency’s Most obdt. Hble Servt., Nichs. Van Dyke RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 'See Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, September 15, 1780, note 2. 2 See Committee at Headquarters to the States, June 2, 1780. Theodorick Bland to St. George Tucker Dear Tucker Philadelphia Septr. 17th 1780 Your agreeable favor of the 10th of August being almost the first thing that presented itself to my view on my arrival at this City— exclusive of the regard I have for the writer—demands in Justice my devoting this first Leisure hour I have had to answer it. 1 A fever (as I am told of south Carolina Origin calld the Broke Bone fever) which has confined me three day to the house but which is now going off, even, affords me this Leisure, you are therefore not to expect any thing very concerted, as it has quite deranged every Idea, tho it has not obliterated those warm sensations of Friendship which prompts me to write, when prudence might dictate a little restorative repose. Your early Salutation of me in the Epistolary way believe me was not the least agreeable object which insinuated itself as it calld my attention from the Hurly Burly of a tavern—the nonsense of Complementary Visits &c., &c. to the Calm retreats of Matoax and Farmingdell. 2 I Join Issue with you as to the God Plutus. You wd no doubt wish to know what is doing in This City, and with our
