September 17, 1780 77 Northern Army and that of [our?] Officers. So multifarious and important are the Busineses before Congress at this time, that it wd. Puzzle Apollo to give you a Competent Idea of the Business now transacting in the Short Space of a letter—the Providing an Immediate, and a permanent Plentifull Supply of transport and Provision for our Army, which has, been frequently reduced almost to a Starving condition, & Shocking to relate in the midst of so plentifull a Country as the United states, has been forced to live on Plundering or in more modest terms Foraging on its own Citizens. The formg a Plan for a Permanent Army, to be raised on liberal and general Principles—removing every Barrier to a Completion of the Genl. Confederacy &c, &c, &c, &c. But really my head is not at present in a Situation to write on Politics. Our Army & that of our allies inactive waiting the arrival of the 2d division of the French fleet & Army which we have heard is on the Coast—but have not yet heard of its arrival—consisting of 19 Ships of the Line. A Short time will no doubt determine what are to be the Capital operations of the Campaign. I shall not forget your Commissions but if you knew how totally my time was engrossed you wd. not be surprised shd. I be more tardy in the Execution of them than you perhaps expect. Fanny 3 who tarrys over my writing table and is this moment looking very stedfastly at me is frequently the subject of my private meditations, and I more than ever experience the sweet satisfaction of having some momento of one who is absent and is the object of our love & affection. We frequently talk to each other, and discant on various Subjects and sometimes the Conversation grows so interesting that it forces from me a wish to transform the Picture into life. Give her both our loves and best affections. The Extravagance of this place exceeds all bounds. My head Ach’s. I must Cut Short this letter with my love to the Boys of whom I beg you will assure them I am fully mindfull & that I will not forget my Promises to them. I am at present fixd in the Lodgings [that ] Bland Had formerly (Randolphs) but am somewhat uncertain whether I shall continue in them. Till my next adieu, God Bless you, Theok. Bland [■RS. ] I have enclosed you Some Papers—the best way of Conveying news. RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 'See also Bland’s September 6 answer to this same letter. 2 Matocks or Mattoax was a Tucker plantation in Chesterfield Co.; Farmingdell or Farmingdale a Bland estate in neighboring Prince George Co., Virginia. 3 That is, Frances Bland Randolph, Bland’s widowed sister, who had married Tucker in 1778.
