80 September 18, 1780 Nathaniel Peabody to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir, Morristown. September 18th. 1780. Your agreable favor of the 6th instant came safe to hand the 8th. And I should have done myself the pleasure of acknowledging it much sooner, had it not been that I waited in hourly expectation to receive some intelligence from Mr. Matthews which might be worth your reading, but alass! I am disappointed, for tho’ he has wrote me Several letters, he has omitted giving me the information I wish to obtain. 1 Nothing in my present situation, except seeing and conversing with my friends, could be more agreable than receiving letters from them, and give me leave to assure you, Sir, there is not one among the few I dare at this day call friends, whose correspondence I should higher value, or whose letters would be more eagerly and gratefully embrac’d, than those you shall at any time favor me with. The very polite and affectionate manner, in which you have express’d your wishes, respecting my health, and welfare, cannot fail to impress on a generous mind indelible sentiments of friendship, and excite grateful returns. When with horror I contemplate the ill timed, and worse calculated revolutions, alluded to in your letter, the convulsions they must occasion, and the train of distressing embarrassments that will consequently result therefrom, I am overwhelm’d with astonishment, and fill’d with holy indignation at the paracidical conduct of the authors. That “thing” for conducting your late department 2 appear’d in bye corners, and your letter of resignation thereupon sent to congress before I left camp. And I have the Satisfaction of reflecting, that I then fully join’d with my colleagues, in representing to congress, the probable consequences of your resignation, and of making a change of men or measures at so late a period in the campaign, and have shar’d largely in the honor of being censured for giving our sentiments upon the subject. And have to regret our sentiments had not then been more fully expressed,, in language emphatical, as the subject is important, which would then, as now, satiated my mind. When with a distress’d army, and injured country, I condole the loss of your abilities in the Q.M. Generals department, At the same time I do most cordially congratulate you as a friend, a Gentleman, and a general in our army, on the happy occasion of your being freed from an office, the duties of which you had faithfully discharged, with so much toil and fatigue, and which had ended in discontent and unmerited disgrace. But let me add I feel a degree of solace in reflecting that the rancour of our enemies, the enemies of our country, promp’d them no farther. The whole of the late conduct of C ss relative to you, Sir, and to the committee, had it appear’d in any other age than the present,
