84 September 19, 1780 department, for which see JCC, 17:615-35; and Samuel Huntington to Greene, July 26, 1780, note 2. 3 That is, Timothy Pickering. 1 Horatio Gates. 3 Gen. 49:14-15. 6 Peabody is probably referring to his long August 6 letter to Josiah Bartlett, in which he had characterized Congress as a “Grand Multiform’d Sanhedrin” which was “often times in the midst of a Fog.” Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Philadelphia Sept 19 1780 In a Letter to Mr Appleton of the 17th 1 I desired him to inform you that I was well. I thank God I continue so, tho I am very sollicitous to know how it fares with you and my dear Connections in Boston. Our Friends at that Distance may be in their Graves before one may even hear of their previous Sickness. You cannot wonder then that I am in Anxiety every Moment. Upon this Consideration alone, the publick Service so far from ones Family, must be conceivd to be a Sacrifice of no small Value. The Man who has devoted himself to the Service of God and his Country will chearfully make every Sacrifice. I will not fail daily to commend you to the Care and Protection of Heaven, in Hopes of seeing you the next Spring. By a Letter of good Authority from Hillsborough in North Carolina dated the 9th of Septr we are informed that Colo Marian of South Carolina who commanded a Body of Militia had surprisd a Party of the Enemy near Santee River escorting 150 Prisoners of the Maryland Division. 2 He took the Party & releivd the Prisoners, & was on the March to Cross Creek, where General Gates had sent Lt Colo Ford with proper officers to conduct them to Hillsbro. When they joyn, our Loss in Continentals will be small in Comparison of what was expected. Pray send the Inclosd to Captain James Shepherd. Remember me to my Family & Friends. Adieu my dear, S Adams [Ry] My worthy Friend Arthur Lee is not yet arrivd. RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Not found. 2 Adams is referring to a copy of Gen. Horatio Gates’ September 9 letter to Thomas Jefferson, which was read in Congress this day. JCC, 18:837. It was also the subject of a note written by John Fell this day, which Fell appended as a postscript to the following brief September 18 letter to Moore Furman. “I hope you will excuse the freedom I take, in troubling you, to forward the inclosed letters [not found], for my Once good friend Mr. Parker, it came inclosed to me this day from Baltimore. . . . “Tuesday 12. 0 Clock We have just now had a Letter read from General Gates acquainting that a Coll Marrian of So Carolina, had Retaken all the Maryland
