September 19, 1780 85 Line consisting of 150, that they were then on their way to Hillsborrough, this is a good afair, As the Enemy now have very few Prisoners, taken with General Gates.” Jenkins Collection, PHi. Ezekiel Cornell to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir Philadelphia September 19th. 1780. Your two letters of the 30th of August and 9th of Sepr. I have had the pleasure to receive. That there have been and still are some members in Congress of a persecutting Spirit is not to be doubted or wondered at when we reflect that one of the best judges of Mankind choose only Twelve out of the whole lump, and one of his number was of that class. But to suppose that Congress take their tone from that Class appears to me rather censorious. And if we may Judge from their final determinations I think the Contrary will appear. A change of measures in the QM Generals department was in some measure become necessary. Clamours run exceeding high against the department in general and wheither upon Just or unjust grounds made but little difference the clammour was gone forth and persons of Influence were not wanted to blow the Cole. At the same time I altogether reprobate the making any general chainge in either of the great departments of the Army during the time they are in the field let the plan be almost ever so bad, but as soon as the Army was gone into Winter Quarters I should have agreed most cordially to many of the Alterations that are made and should have thought some others necessary upon principals of expediteing the business as well as that of Cteconomy. People in different stations of life are apt to think indifferently of each other as they do not feel the force of the difficulties that attend the other. The Gentlemen of the Army feel the difficulties and hardships that they are exposed to with all the severity attending, and are perhaps too apt to suppose they arise from want of Attention in Congress or a wicked disposition to distress them when perhaps the real cause arose from a train of disappointments that no humane prudence could foresee. I have lived the life of a Soldier for five years and I can say upon the word of an honest man I never passed a Summer so disagreablely as I have the present. Every day furnishing a new Catelogue of Complaints from the Army and other publick Creditors with out the means of Satisfying them on one Side, On the other a Series of Letters from governors and presidents in answer to letters pressing the states for money seting forth the exhausted state of their several Treasurys and the inability of their consituents to pay the Quotas of Taxes assessed upon them. After all what shall Congress do, Curse the states as some of the gentlemen of the Army
