88 September 19, 1780 of Virginea and North Carolina to use their utmost exertions to raise and feed an Army merely by piece meal with out any fixed plan. And by a letter receivd yesterday from the governor of Virginia 2 it appears a faction in favour of the Britons had lately broke out in three or four of the back Countys of that state where they had been always heretofore considered friendly to these states. A very Considerable Number had Inlisted tojoyn the Enemy but their plan was discovered and they were prevented. A letter came by the same hand from General Gates Informing that he had Intelegence, that Cornwallis was preparing to imbark his troops at George Town and go from thenc to cape Fare and then through the Country to Virginia and that he Cornwallis had parties out Collecting Waggons for that purpose And that four Thousand Troops from N York was to immediately take possession of Portsmouth in Virginia. How far this Intelegence is to be relyed on I cannot say. The old gentleman lays great stress upon it. But I thought sometimes last summer he was too fond of beleiving every story from the Enemy especially if it tended to distress us. I am with sentiments of Esteem, your most obedt,Hum Servant, E Cornell RC (OCIWHi: Norton Collection). 1 The committee considering the arrangement of the army, appointed to study proposals contained in Washington’s August 20 letter to Congress and consisting of Cornell, Samuel Adams, Joseph Jones, Thomas McKean, and John Morin Scott, brought in a report this day. It was debated the following day and adopted on September 21. However, Congress decided on the 22nd to suspend its action “until the Comee shall make a farther report”—chiefly on the subject of the artillery, cavalry, and engineer regiments and supernumerary foreign officers—which was finally submitted and adopted on October 3, 1780. See JCC, 17:786, 18:839, 842-44, 893-97; and Samuel Huntington to Washington, October 4, 1780, note 1. See also John Mathews to Washington, September 24, 1780, note 2. 2 Gov. Thomas Jefferson’s September 14 letter was read in Congress this day. JCC, 18:837. Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Dear Sir: Philadelphia, Sept. 19th, 1780. I do myself the honor to write your Excellency by this post; and am sorry to acquaint you that, notwithstanding public business of the most pressing nature is now suffering before Congress, we have spent three days to no purpose in the affair of Vermont, and are still engaged in the same business; and when we shall get clear of it I know.not, or what we shall do in the affair. The Yorkers treat the matter almost beyond the bound of modesty. I can only say I am sorry from my heart that Congress has taken up the matter, by their former resolution, in the manner they have And let us do what
