September 19, 1780 89 we will, I fear the most fatal consequences will follow I cannot give you particulars at this time. 1 By intelligence from several quarters, it appears the enemy are preparing to push their operations to the southward by the taking possession of Portsmouth, with a body of troops from New York, while Cornwallis endeavors to join them from the southward. Congress has in contemplation to raise an army of thirty-two thousand non-commissioned officers and privates, to be in the field by the first day of January next, at farthest, to serve one year at least, to consist of four regiments of cavalry, four of artillery, forty-nine of infantry, and one of artificers; the whole to be proportioned to the several states, and all the rest and residue of the regiments and corps to be reduced on the first day of January next. The above is the report of a committee which is not yet considered, and probably will undergo some alterations, but I think the substance will pass. 2 Our loss of Continental troops in the late infamous flight on the 16th of August, near Camden, is very inconsiderable to what was expected from the tenure of Gen. Gates’ letter of the 20th of August, from Hillsborough. Our people have retaken one hundred Continental prisoners, as the enemy were conducting them to Charleston. I have the honor to be your Excellency’s Most obedient, humble servant, Ezekiel Cornell. Reprinted from Staples, Rhode Island, p. 313. 1 For the “affair of Vermont” in Congress, see Samuel Adams to John Lowell, September 15; and John Sullivan to Meshech Weare, September 16, 1780. 2 For this report, see the preceding entry, note one. James Duane to Mary Duane Philadelphia 19th Septemr 1780 I long my dearest Polly most impatiently to hear of your own and our Childrens Health not having yet been blessed with a Line. Any Letters you favour me with will come safe by the Post. I have Reason to be thankful that I have not felt the least Indisposition since we parted and I want nothing but an assurance of your welfare to make me easy and resigned to the Station hard as it is to which my Country has appointed me. Indeed she wants all the Services of her Oldest Citizens, as our affairs are much perplexed for the Want of money. The Enemy we learn are again in Motion. Where they will make their assault is uncertain. Some think they will reinforce Lord Cornwallis in South Carolina; others that they will attempt to make a Lodgement in Virginia. None suppose that further Attacks upon the State of New York are probable. The first point to be settled
