September 19, 1780 91 regular Troops have acquired unfading Glory! I find with great Satisfaction that the Legislature of New York have fallen in with the Views of the Eastern Convention and particularly to strengthen the Hands of Congress and enable them to enforce their Decisions: We can never manage the publick Interests with Success till this Disposition becomes general: Nor can any thing else under the divine Blessing, be necessary to give Us a decided Superiority over our Enemies. We have now obtaind military Knowledge in an eminent Degree, we have internal Resources and Reputation abroad: we have a great and respectable Ally: of what then are we destitute but Vigour and Confidence in Government, and publick Spirit in Individuals. I shall be happy to be honourd with a Line after your Interview at Hartford if your Leisure admit. 3 I hope it will prove some Relaxation from the severe and anxious Cares which have fallen to your Share too long and with too much Weight. Permit me to add that I am with every Sentiment of the most affectionate Attachment and most perfect Regard, Dear Sir, your most Obedient humble Servant, Jas. Duane RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Washington wrote identical letters of September 9 to Duane and to Joseph Jones. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:18-19n.32. 2 See Ezekiel Cornell to Nathanael Greene, this date, note 1. 3 For Washington’s October 4 reply, written after his September 20-22 “Interview at Hartford” with the comte de Rochambeau, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:117-18. John Hanson to Philip Thomas Dear Doct. Philadelphia Sept. 19th 1780. I this moment received your two letters of the 3d and 9th Instant which I read with Satisfaction, all but the Account you have given of Janeys 1 health which is very distressing. You will let me Know by every post how She goes on. I wrote you by Mr. Pool giving you an Account of the Defeat of our Southern Army. The Accounts we have Since had from that quarter is more favourable than Could be expected Considering the Situation in which Gen. Gates left them, from the best Intelligence we have, not more than two hundred of the Regulars are missing. Our Army is Still much distressd for want of meat. They get one meal only in three days, and how long that Scanty allowance will Continue is uncertain. The Jersey Inhabitants in whose State the Army is, are plundered daily by partys of the Army, without a possibility of restraint—are not the worst of Consequences to be dreaded from the Armys thus Careing for themselves? Will not the affections of those people who
