92 September 19, 1780 have upon all Occasions Exerted themselves in Support of the Common Cause, be at length Alenated from the Army, and look upon them rather in the light of Robers and Enemies than the protectors of their rights? Is it not most Shameful that our Army Should be Starving and drove into Such measures, while the Country abounds with provisions? I am willing to believe that all our embarrassments proceed rather from the disjointed and deranged State of our finances, than the want of inclination or Ability in the united States to Carry on the War. Still I cant help thinking, that a want of proper Exertions in them, is in a great degree the Cause of the present distresses of the Army. Congress Can do no more than recommend—but as I observed before our difficulties principally arose from the want of money, and there Seems to be a fatality attending every measure that has been adopted to put our finances into order— the most probable Schemes have, by Some means or other been rendered ineffectual. The resolves of the 18th March promised fair, but am afraid will not answer the end proposed. How is the old money to be got in, and the new put into Circulation, while our Taxes are anticipated, and paid off with Certificates? Our present Situation is truly Alarming—the Army in want of every thing—no money in the Treasury, And our Credit Exausted. God grant us a Speedy, Safe and Honourable Peace. Congress had advice to day of the Arrival of Admiral Rodney at the Hook with twelve Sail of the line and four frigates 2 —that they had taken and brought in with them, a french frigate—that 5000 Troops are to be Sent from new york to the Southward. It is reported And I hope with good foundation that the Combined fleet from the West Indias is on the Coast. If so the french will be Superior, And may prevent the embarkation at new york from taking place. Last fryday General Smallwood was by an unanimous vote of Congress promoted to the Rank of Major General, And in my Judgment ought to take the Command of the Southern Army at least that our runaway General ought to be Suspended And an Equiry made into His Conduct. Am Sorry to Acquaint you that yesterday Morning Dyed much lamented Mrs. Reed the Presidents Lady. It is now Just 12 oClock the time the Post is Setting out, must therefore Conclude With my most affectionate Love to Mrs Hanson And Janey, who I hope will take all possible Care of her Self, use Exercise, and Conform to every thing that may Contribute to restore her to health. My love to Sammy and the little ones, who I hope are well, tho you have said nothing about them. My Compliments to my neighbours and friends And let Mr Potts Know the necessary enquiry Shall be made. Jack Addisons is a mad Scheme, in my Opinion it will ruin him. I have wrote you a long letter in hast. I am now very well tho’ have been much indisposed for a fortnight past. Farewell—Yrs. &c 3
