94 September 19, 1780 James Madison to Joseph Jones Dear Sir Sepr. 19th. 1780. Instead of a confirmation of the good news respecting the french fleet mentioned in my last, I have the mortification to inform you that it is pretty certain that Rodney has arrived at the Hook with 12 sail of the line from the W. Indies & 4 frigates. The report however still continues that a french fleet is somewhere on the coast. The arrival of Rodney is a proof that it had left the W. Indies and was conjectured to be coming hither. It is further said that 5 or 6000 troops would embark at N. York on the 25th inst. either for Virga, or S. Carolina. This is by no means probable. The danger of such a measure is too President Reed’s Lady has been buried this morning. She and Mr. Brymner the great musician were taken off by the Dysentery. Mr. Hodge, who was in France connected with the famous Cutter, was returning with 13 others from Sth. Carolina and died at Bohemia 40 miles off having survived all the others. Tricket our Stationer and Monsr. Damon our Brussels news monger are gone also; in short, 30 died on the night that Damon did. I hope you have better air and better Water than we; to say nothing of Wine as I am not in Capacity to draw any Comparisons about so strange a Liquor. We are in the Labyrinths of Vermont and are also driven to be contriving how to buy some Portion of that western World which the Big Knife 1 pretends to give to us. Give my Compliments to Mr. Gerry to whom I shall write by Col. Wigglesworth the Bearer of his Letter & order to me. Your affectionately, James Lovell RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 1 That is, Virginia. For further information on the discussion of the Virginia delegates’ proposals concerning the western lands, see the following entry. James Madison to Joseph Jones Dear Sir Sepr. 19th. 1780. Instead of a confirmation of the good news respecting the french fleet mentioned in my last, I have the mortification to inform you that it is pretty certain that Rodney has arrived at the Hook with 12 sail of the line from the W. Indies & 4 frigates. The report however still continues that a french fleet is somewhere on the coast. The arrival of Rodney is a proof that it had left the W. Indies and was conjectured to be coming hither. It is further said that 5 or 6000 troops would embark at N. York on the 25th inst. either for Virga, or S. Carolina. This is by no means probable. The danger of such a measure is too
