96 September 19, 1780 September 10, 1780. That day, before departing for Virginia where he hoped to persuade the assembly to accede to Congress’ appeal, Jones had introduced three resolutions establishing Virginia’s conditions for the proposed cession. See JCC, 17:808. Jones stipulated that the western territory be organized into states of specified size, that states ceding western land be compensated for maintaining military and civil establishments in the territory, and that all but military bounty lands be considered part of a “common fund,” thus voiding the tides to Indian lands acquired by private parties. The latter condition was a direct attempt to nullify the purchases of the great land companies. They were based, it should be noted, on suggestions that Jones had solicited from Virginia assemblyman George Mason, for which see Mason, Papers (Rutland), 2:655-63; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:72-78. Jones’ motion, which had been seconded by Madison, was referred on September 9 to a committee, consisting of Madison, John Henry, Whitmell Hill, Roger Sherman, and Artemas Ward, that reported on the 15th. Congress debated the report on September 18 and again on October 10 when it partially adopted the Virginia position by agreeing that western lands, once ceded, should be “settled and formed into distinct republican states” on an equal footing with the existing states, and that the cost of maintaining a military, though not a civil, presence in the territory should be reimbursed. By a tie vote, however, Congress postponed a decision on the validity of Indian land purchases, a source of contention that was not reconciled until 1784. Nonetheless, with this action Congress took the initial step in the creation of a national domain in the western territory. See JCC, 18:815-16, 828, 836, 915-16. See also Madison to Jones, October 17, 1780, note 1; and Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson, January 30, 1781. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Philada. Sepr. 19th. 1780 Dear Sir I was in hopes when I wrote my last that I should be able by this post to congratulate you on the arrival of the french fleet from the W. Indies But so far is this from being the case, that it comes from authority which seems to have a just claim on our faith that Admiral Rodney is actually at the Hook with 12 Sail of the line & 4 frigates. It is still said however that a french fleet is somewhere on the coast. The arrival of Rodney is certainly an evidence that it had quited the Islands and was suspected to be coming hither. It is also given out at New York that a reinforcement of 4000 troops will arrive next month from England. Another part of our reports is that 5 or 6000 troops will embark at N. York on the 25th inst. for Virga, or S. Carolina: but it is not to be supposed that such a measure will be hazarded in the present ticklish state of things. 22 Sail of the Quebeck fleet are carried prizes into N. England. 1 I am Dr Sir with sincere respect, Yr. obt friend & Servt. J. Madison, Junr. P.S. The mortality in this place exceeds any thing ever remembered. The only person of note that occurs at present is the Lady of President Reed who fell a victim to it yesterday morning.
