September 20, 1780 97 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:93. 1 Washington had reported the capture of these prizes in his letters of September 9 and 10 which were read in Congress on the 12th and 14th, respectively. SeeJCC, 18:819, 824; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:21, 23-24. James Duane to Robert Livingston My dear & ever honourd Sir, Philadelphia 20th Septemr 1780 I make it a Rule to miss no opportunity of writing to you or my Polly; to both I have it not always in my power, and I wish you may consider what I address to her as equally intended for your own perusal. The News papers, to one or other, I shall forward by every opportunity. Our Loss of Men in the late General Engagement in South Carolina, tho’ from General Gates’s Account it appeard to be total, turns out inconsiderable: the Prisoners of the Maryland Line having been fortunately retaken. It may however be set down as a misfortune of considerable Extent as the Army then collecting for the Relief of South Carolina was dispersed, some of the Cannon taken, and the Militia much disgraced. Had they stood firm it is plain, from every Circumstance, that the Victory on our side woud have been decisive. A respectable Army is again collecting and will soon be ready to take the Field. The gallant Maryland Corps is reinforced by 500 Recruits of that Line, so that they will be much more formidable than before the late action in which they gave proof of Valour & Discipline scarcely to be paralleled. Admiral Rodney is arrived at the Hook with 8 or 10 Ships of the Line; and the combined fleet of France & Spain expected on the Coast. A naval Engagement therefore is not improbable. In the mean time great Embarkation is making at New York, it is said for Virginia; & that Sir Henry has invited the disaffected Refugee families of that State & Maryland to accompany him. The armed Neutrality for the freedom of Navigation may produce serious Effects. England declines the Claims of and Regulations of the Empress And the States declare that they will have Satisfaction for the Insult offerd to Count Byland their Admiral totally rejecting the Justification of that Transaction as explaind in the British Memorial. I continue to enjoy my Health but am most anxious to hear of that of my Polly and the Families of the Manshion from any of whom I have not a Line since my arrival. Will you be so good as to advise with Brother John respecting the disposal of my young Horses. The black Horse if at a moderate Expence I shoud like to keep to ride, the Mares maybe sold, for they do not answer Expectation not at all matching; and I cannot at present
