September 21, 1780 101 of December next, when the ensuing Delegation will commence. Perhaps the Empowering of one to give the Vote of the State for the remainder of the Year would be preferred; I only mention it. I would have requested that a Member might be appointed in my room, and myself no longer continued in the Delegation, but that the Time is not long, and I would not wish, by any Act of my own, to shew an Inclination to retire wholly from Congress at this Time of Difficulty. Were I to be thought of in the Appointment for the ensuing Year, my Reasons for declining would be instantly conclusive to every Body. In Addition to what is said above, I beg Leave further to remark; if it so happens that none of the present Delegates are in the appointment next year, the Gentlemen who then attend will find themselves much at a Loss, be their abilities what they may, and the Interests of the State may possibly suffer in some Point where a little Experience of any one Member, would secure it. With a View to Cases of this Nature, some of the States appoint their Members at two different Periods in the Year, six Months or thereabouts distant from each other, one Half at one the other at the other, that should a total Change take Place at either, they may not still be without one or more in Congress to whom the Routine of Business is familiar. I submit this Matter without further Explanation except that should Objections occur, it is my Wish no Concerns of mine, however near or interesting, may interfere with the essential Business of the State, or take up the Time of it’s representatives. 1 I am, Sir, your obedient humble Servant, Wm Churchill Houston RC (NN: Emmet Collection). Addressed: “Honorable the Chairman of the Joint meeting.” 1 Some of the concerns Houston voiced here were resolved on November 24 when the joint meeting of the New Jersey Council and Assembly elected three experienced delegates, Houston, Abraham Clark, and John Witherspoon, along with William Burnet and William Paterson, to constitute its new slate of delegates. However, New Jersey continued to require the vote of “any two or more of them” to cast the state’s vote in Congress. See JCC, 18:1111-12. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir Morristown 21 Sepr 1780 In my last, 1 I inform’d you of my ill state of health, and my Circumstances, but then hop’d to recover my health, and finish the report of the Committee, in a fortnight, which time is now expired— and I am not in a Situation on any account to Set off for home, tho, I recover my health daily—and hope in about two weeks from this to be able to ride so as to set out—by which time the report will be Compleated. Admiral Rodney with ten ships of the line and a
