102 September 21, 1780 Number of Small Craft has arrived off the hook—but as Genl Folsom who is now on his way home 2 will be able to give you the Common News here it is needless for me to write. As to those Cabinet matters I happen to be possess’d of I must defer mentioning till I see you which I hope will be in Short time. I am Dear Sir, your most obdt, & very Huml Sert, Nathl Peabody [PS.] Complements to those that wish well to our Cause. RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 See Peabody to Bartlett, August 6, 1780. 1 Nathaniel Folsom had obtained a leave of absence from Congress on September 15.JCC, 18:831. Richard Howly to Horatio Gates Sir. Philadelphia Septr. the 22d 1780 Major Magile, after being detained, for Some time, Setts off. The appearance of matters is Somewhat different, to that which it bore at the departure of Col. Senf. We then had an acct, of the Arrival of the French fleet and now we have certain advices of the Arrival of Admiral Rodney with ten Sail of the line at Sandy hook—and only the old report of the French fleet being on the Coast. Should this not be the case, I am in pain for the Ships under the command of the Chevalier de Ternay. We have accounts of an Embarkation preparing at York, the destination as is Said, for Virginia but nothing Certain—a Very few days will throw full light on this business. Congress will be desirous of hearing from you often—the accts, of the redemption of the 150 Marylanders was reed, with Satisfaction. We are Sensible of the many difficulties which attend you—especially in a line of offensive operations, which it is the Wish of your friends you might be Enabled to undertake as Soon as possible. May I have the honor to be, Sir, with much truth, yr. huml. & Obedt. Servt. Richd. Howly [PS.] I send you a few English papers. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council Gent. Philadelphia Sep. 22d. 1780 This will be handed to you by Colo Blane, who will lay before your Excellency and Honors, A Resolve of Congress, 1 recommending
