September 22, 1780 103 to the State of Maryland, to furnish five hundred head of Cattle, for the immediate use of the Army. The great distress the army have for some time past been under, and which Still Continues for want of meat, have induced us to approve of that resolution, and beg leave to recommend it to your Excely and Honors, as a measure absolutely necessary to be Complyed with; and hope you will give Colo. Blane every Assistance in your power in procuring them—if by Complying with the above resolution a Deficiency in the Quota of Meat heretofore required by Congress of the State of Maryland, Should be Occasioned, we think the State will Stand Justly excused. We have the honor to be with much esteem, Your Excellencys & Honors most hble Servts. Daniel of St Tho Jenifer John Hanson John Henry RC (MdHi: Red Books). 1 See JCC, 18:843. The resolve was actually transmitted to Gov. Thomas Sim Lee by Pres. Samuel Huntington in a letter of September 23, in which he explained that Col. Ephraim Blaine was “prevented by indisposition” from going to Maryland as planned. Red Books, MdAA; and PCC, item 15, fols. 117-18. Nathaniel Peabody to Benjamin Lincoln Dear sir, Morris Town Sepr. 22d 1780 The small though agreable personal acquaintence, I had the honor of having with you, at the time I found you in a disagreable situation at Bennington; 1 induces me now to address you. I have for some time been unwell at this place, but am now on the recovery, and employed in finishing the report of the Committee of Congress lately sent to Head Quarters, which will detain me here for the space of ten days yet to come, and hearing you were at Elizabeth Town have desir’d Mr. Brown, a gentlemen who has for some time been employed in our Office, to take the liberty of calling on you with my compliments to request, if it should be convenient in your present tour to come by way of Morris Town that you will not fail to honor me with a Visit. I most sensibly feel for you on account of your situation, and for the many fatigues, trials, and distressing embarrassments you have had to encounter, in defence of our native Country, since your entering the present glorious conflict, and which so far as has come within my knowlege, you have surmounted with a judgment, and fortitude that would have done honor even to the first General in America Though I am not insensible that the ignorant and envious will always endeavor to place even unavoidable misfortune and censure in the same class.
