104 September 22, 1780 In hopes of the pleasure of a visit from you, shall beg leave to subscribe, your sincere friend, Most Obedt. & very humble servt. Nathl Peabody. RC (NjR: New Jersey Letters). In the hand of Benjamin Brown and signed by Peabody. i That is, at the time of the Battle of Bennington in 1777. 2 Peabody also wrote a second letter this day, to Abraham Skinner the new commissary of prisoners, asking his assistance in procuring spectacles for his failing eyes. . “My late illness has made it Necessary for me to have recourse to artificial Eyes as Auxiliaries to the Natural ones and induces me to trouble you upon the occasion. If you Can without too much trouble and will be so very obliging as to procure three pair of Green Spectacles, with double Jointed Stell Springs, viz 1 pr. for a person about 35 years old, 1 pr. 40 & the other pair from 50 to 60—and one pair of spectacles of white pebble, with Silver bows & Springs double Jointed—these to be Number 22, and Genteel with a Suitable Case—and send them with an acct, of the Cost and Expense to me at Colo Harrisons Morristown that I can have them within ten or twelve days at furthest, I will pay the hard money for them on Sight of your order to any person you shall please to direct. . . . P.S. I should not have troubled you on this occasion but there is not a pair to be found here that will Suit, and thought it probable you might procure them at Eliza Town or elsewhere in your Travels.” Miscellaneous Revolutionary Correspondence, Nh-Ar. Samuel Huntington to Timothy Pickering Philada September 23. 1780 You will receive herewith enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress of the 22 Instant, authorizing the Board of Treasury to deliver you Bills of Exchange to the Amount of six thousand five Hundred & six Dollars for the Purpose of purchasing Tents for the Use of the southern Army. 1 I am Sir &c &c, S.H. PSI was honored with your Letter the Day you left the City. 2 S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). i JCC, 18:846. 2 Not found, but apparently one dated September 16, the day he set oil for the army,” according to his letter of that date to Charles Marshall. Pickering Papers, MHi. Samuel Huntington to Nathanael Greene Sir, Philada September 24. 1780 * You will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 19 Instant, 1 directing the Commander in Chief to enquire of Sir Henry
