September 24, 1780 107 of that inchanting metal called gold, & there will be one strong incentive to their accepting the largest sum, which is, the people have strongly imbibed a notion that the war cannot last more than a year or two longer, therefore I suppose they will readily enough imbrace the old proverb “a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.” Much more may be said on the subject, but your Excys experience, & knowledge of these matters renders it unnecessary. This was the plan sir I proposed, but after a very long, & warm debate, it was rejected, & what I have before mentioned, substituted. I am extremely anxious to have yr. Excys opinion on this matter, therefore must earnestly request it of you, I mean it only for my private information, as the business is already determined, & I suppose will not be altered. 3 There is one objection I am aware of, that is, the enormous expense it would create. To this I would answer it is better at once to incur the most enormous expense, & let there be an end of it, than to be every year running into very heavy expences, to answer little, or no valuable purpose, on the contrary, rather tending to throw our affairs into the utmost confusion. The reduction of the batallions, & consequently of a great many oficers, yr. Excy will at once see the propriety of keeping private, untill finally determined by Congress. 4 I have the honor to be, with the highest respect And the most sincere Esteem, Yr. Excys most Obedt servt, Jno. Mathews RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Mathews to Washington, September 15, 1780 2 A report on a new arrangement of the army had been submitted on September 19 and “agreed to” on the 21st, but because planned revisions in the artillery, cavalry, and engineer regiments had not yet been reported, Congress voted the following day to suspend the resolves and Secretary Thomson added the following note in the margin of the journals to explain his revised entry. “By a vote of the house on reading the journals next morning [i.e., September 22] it was resolved that this be taken of[f] the journal until the Comee shall make a farther report.” The provisions adopted on September 21 were therefore subsequently incorporated into the journal entry of October 3 when additional committee recommendations were adopted that day, and both sets of resolutions were combined under the later date in the printed edition of the journals prepared by Gaillard Hunt. See JCC, 18:893-97; PCC, item 1, 29:35-38, 96-97; and Ezekiel Cornell to Nathanael Greene, September 19, 1780, note 1. For an analysis of the provisions of the arrangement of October 1780, which specified the organization of the Continental Army for 1781 and required the states to provide recruits for not less than one year if they were unable to meet their quotas with troops enlisted for the duration of the war, see Wright, The Continental Army, pp. 154-61. 3 For Washington’s October 4 reply, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:113-16. 4 For Mathews’ continued discussion of the new arrangement for the army, see Mathews to Washington, October 17, 1780.
