118 September27, 1780 And in the mean Time I wish to be informed of what particular Discoveries you may have made as particularly as may be. I have the Honor to be &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 For Greene’s letters to Huntington, which were received on September 26 and 27 respectively, see JCC, 18:867—68; and PCC, item 155, 1:435-42. 2 With his letter of the 25th, Greene had enclosed one of the same date from Alexander Hamilton reporting “the blackest treason.” “Arnold has fled to the Enemy,” Hamilton explained. “Andre the British Adjt. Genl, is in our possession as a spy. His capture unravelled the mystery—West Point was to have been the sacrifice.” Since Greene was in command at Headquarters during Washington’s temporary absence, he was advised to put the army under marching orders immediately in case yet unknown aspects of the plot were still in train. Hamilton s letter is in Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 2:440-41; and PCC, item 155, 1:443-44. Samuel Huntington to George Clinton Sir, Philadelphia September 29, 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress of the 28 Instant, by which I am ordered to transmit you the other Papers enclosed to which it refers. 1 The Originals were found among General Arnolds Papers in this City which have been lately seized. I have the Honor to be, with Sentiments of Esteem & respect, your Excellency’s most humble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (MH-H: Sparks Manuscripts). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 The enclosed resolve simply explained that Benedict Arnold’s recently seized papers in Philadelphia indicated that he had formerly had commercial connections with John R. Livingston, who as a precautionary measure was apparently to be watched in case Arnold’s treasonous plot had unsuspected ramifications involving former associates. SeeyCC, 18:871. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia September 29. 7 oClock P.M. 1780 I am honored with your Excellency’s Despatches of the 26 Instant, which will he laid before Congress in the Morning. 1 We had before received Intelligence from General Greene, that Genl Arnold was gone over to the Enemy. Immediately Orders were given to search & seize his Papers & Effects to be found here, which was speedily executed, but I am not yet advised of what particular Discoveries have been made.
