September 30, 1780 119 With Congratulations on your Return to the Army, I have the Honor to be, your most obedient Servant, Sam. Huntington RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. i JCC, 18:876. Washington’s letter to Huntington concerning Benedict Arnold’s treason is in PCC, item 152, 9:199-202; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:91-93. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir Philada. 30 September 1780 A new apportionment of the Quotas of Men in the several States will take Place in a little Time. It has, in my Opinion, been too long delayed, as the Troops for the next Campaign ought to be in the Field by the 1st of January coming, to give proper Opportunity of Manoeuvring and fitting them for active Field-service. I hope it is the settled sentiment of the State, and of their Representatives in Legislature, to make no more Enlistments for short Periods, but to take measures for raising a solid permanent Force to serve during the War. I am convinced, from the most satisfactory Examination, that the Disbursements we have this year made in New-Jersey for partial Recruits, would have nearly, if not quite, produced our Proportion of Enlistments for the war. Perhaps I might say they would have done a great Deal more. It gives me Pleasure to inform you that the Preference of recruiting for the War is become general, and, if diligendy practised upon, will be of inumerable good Consequences to the Union in general, and to each separate State in particular; more especially those which are the Seat of the War, or in the Vicinity of it. The Legislature will be glad to begin their Preparations early. This Circumstance is essencial to their Success and Effect. I have therefore used all possible Attention to get them the necessary Information. Our Quota will be about 1200 Men; I say this, not with perfect Certainty, because the Resolutions are not yet passed but with a Probability which may be pretty securely relied on; and if it should be a few over or under, it is better to risque that than to suffer the least Delay. The return of our Brigade the 1st current is as follows 1 Regiment 247 Rank and File 2 Do 320 3 Do 263 on Spencer’s of the addi[ti]onal 59 889 There are a few more in some other Corps, I cannot ascertain what is the Amount. Nor do I know what Number of these are upon limited
