120 September 30, 1780 Enlistments, but believe not many. However your Excellency by writing to the Commander in Chief, will obtain full Satisfaction upon every Particular; and he will give it with the highest Pleasure on hearing the State are adopting means to render their Quota of Force [ope]rable; as it has been the Source of inexpressible wretchedness and Suffering to him, when his Army has, from Time to Time, mouldered away under his Eyes, upon short Engagements. We may set down our present Deficiency from 250 to 300 Rank and File; perhaps the Medium between these Extremes will be tolerably exact. This is upon the Quota expected to be established, which will, we hope, be more nearly conformed to our Ability and just Proportion than some of the former have been. 1 I will not venture to say that this, that or the other mode of raising these men will be the best. The wisdom of the Legislature, comprehending fully the Ideas and Circumstances of the People in every Part of the State, will decide judiciously on this Object. I will only say that a few hard Dollars on the Drum-head, are a mighty Engine in recruiting; not indeed decisive with all, but with most who take up the Profession of Soldiership. A Specie-tax to the Amount, can, I should think, be collected without Difficulty; for if we compute every recruit to cost from 50 to 55 Dollars, which is not the lowest Bounty, the Duplicates would not average perhaps more than 6/3: and would it not be better for a man of any Substance or Business to pay ten Times that Sum, than submit to the Inconveniences we have suffered for several years past. The State of Maryland have lately raised about 500 Men to serve during the war, by assessing the proportionate number on each District throughout the State, the Districts to produce the Men as they could get them; the Bounty to be raised by Assessment of the taxable Estates of the District. If I am not mistaken, the Mode is similar to that we have more than once taken to raise Men for a few Months. Will endeavour to procure and forward a Copy of the Law, as it may possibly be preferred to try different Methods, if they can be prevented from interfering in their Operation. I have been informed that some of the States who have Militia with the Army for the present Campaign, have recruited many of them for the War by putting some hard Money into the Hands of their Officers at Camp; and that some have been enlisted for that Period on the Notes of the Officers, engaging to pay the Bounty in hard Money at a stipulated Time. Perhaps some of the Men we have there might be obtained in this Way; and as it would not take long to raise so small a Tax as is before mentioned, it may be worth considering whether we had not better set about it immediately. It is to be hoped that the Clothing for the Army will arrive from abroad in some short Time, and a Suit to each Man enlisting, which the
