September 30, 1780 121 Comander in Chief is empowered to order, would be no inconsiderable Temptation. On the Circumstance of the Bounty, mentioned above, I observe, that it seems to be the Sum generally thought of. In hard Dollars it would make a powerful Show, especially as such have, for Some Time past, been very little in Sight. Gentlemen from the different Counties will be able to determine whether any Thing less would be sucessful, or whether more will be necessary. It is pretty certain Congress will fix upon that, or Something near it. The Adopting and Executing of decisive Measures to fix a respectable Army in the Field for the Continuance of the war, will have a great Effect in securing an early Peace. The Nation we contend with, being old and settled in its Forms of Government and War, are more alarmed at seeing fixed Institutions and established Resources, though they should not be the most perfect and pro ductive, than they are with the most formidable temporary Expedi ents. It would therefore be a desirable Thing to have a constant, standing mode of keeping our Quota of Troops full from Campaign to Campaign, and Time to Time, without being under the Necessity to pass a Law for that Purpose every Year, and perhaps oftener; and this, even if we were in Expectation of a Peace within a few months, because that is a matter of Uncertainty, and this would be a Means of procuring it. One of the Recommendations of Congress will be as has been the Case heretofore, to keep a proper Officer or Officers constantly employed in the State for enlisting Recruits, and to direct the Officers at the Army to pay constant attention to the same Thing when Militia or temporary aides are detached to serve with them on Special Occasions. For this Purpose Money ought to be lodged in the Hands of the Executive, and of the Commanding Officer of the Troops of the State. I have written your Excellency thus particularly, because I have this Subject greatly at Heart, and am convinced that the Interest of the State is much concerned in it. I hope in a little Time to be able to forward you the Proceedings of Congress respecting it, but as these may be delayed longer than is expected “I could wish the Occasion not to be lost, as every Day is precious. I am afraid the Army will crumble down again this Fall by the Expiration of Enlistments, and the State will again find it self in the perilous Situation it has seen more than once. It is true it wd be little available if only we perform the Duty we owe ourselves and to our Country, and the other States are delinquent. This however would not hold as an Excuse and the less so as we are most immediately interested. But I have better Hopes of all the States, some of whom are already at Work. I have to beg Your Excellency will communicate this Letter with the Assistance which your Advice and better Reasoning is able to
