126 October 2, 1780 succeeded, and was twenty miles in his Return, when he was stopped by 4 Militia Men, without an officer, who being directed by Inspiration, would not suffer him to pass without a Search, in which the above papers were discovered, and they conducted him to the nearest Continental officer, as a Spye who immediately dispatched an Express to inform Arnold that there had been a Spye in his Camp, and that he was apprehended, at the same time described him so as to satisfy Arnold that it was Andree, on which, he immediately pushed down the River to a British Frigate, then lying about 15 Miles below; had this event took place it must have affected us more than any stroke we have reed since the War; as our Army would have been immediately cut off from the total supply of Meat, and had the British pushed their Arms into the Eastern States, there would have been no Regular Army to oppose them, and no Bread to have supported the Militia had they collected, in fact, I look on such an escape as equal to a small Victory. On Arnolds running to the Enemy, his papers at this place were siezed, and several of our speculating Gentry are discovered as being connected with him in Scenes of villainous Traffic with the Enemy &c. Yr. Friend Jas. Maise’s Reputation suffers no small stain in consequence of these discoveries, among others; none of them have been apprehended yet, but suppose necessary steps will be fallen upon to punish such Treason. 1 RC (Nc-Ar: Burke Papers). 1 For the continuation of this letter, see Hill to Burke, October 9, 1780. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir, Philada. 2 October 1780 Your Excellency has doubtless received, officially from the President, the Resolutions of Congress of 26 August last; 1 the Journals of that month for the Use of the legislature have also been forwarded. The Recommendation for drawing in the old Bills of Credit, by Tax or Excha[nge] is exactly conformable to the Provisions made by the Act of Assembly of 9 June last. Our State was almost the only one who took the Precaution of [setting] an Exchange; all now see the Propriety of it. Without Doubt that [. . .] is an apparent Loss to the Community, if the Bills can be made to circulate at,] or nearly at, their value; but it does not appear to me a real [. . .] Detriment of having the old Bills in Circulation along with the new [. . .] length of Time, would be much greater. It is certainly the univer[sal in]terest to have the old Bills destroyed as soon as possible, and I add [. . .] also; after these are sunk as the law prescribes, it will be the Wisdom [. . .] Country to have no more Paper-credit. When Trade is free we may [have] Specie enough; nothing ever made Paper Necessary
