October?, 1780 127 to us but the Dependence of America on Great Britain. It is only a Sign of the Sign of Wealth delusive and ensnaring by making People think they are richer than they are while it is but a mortgage on their future Industry, for which they will ever pay more than it is worth. Necessity only could justify the Use of it in the present Instance. Two Things I will mention tending greatly to help the new Bills Credit when issued. Taxes as high as the People can conveniently pay, as near as possible to the publick Expenditures; and the Payment of these Taxes in the new Bills or Specie. If Taxes could keep Pace with th[e] Expenditures the Bills would be in full Credit at all Times to the End of their Term; therefore Taxes payable in them must be a good Mean[s.] With this View the three-Millions-Tax is recommended to be raised with[in] the present year, payable in these Bills or Specie. In our State, however and some others, it will not have the fullest Opportunity, as Certificates for Debts, due from the Community to Individuals, are intended to be received and must be made so from Necessity. Our Quota of this Tax is a fif[th] Part of the monthly Assessment of the State, as settled 7 October 1779, name[ly] 180,000 Dollars, or sixty-seven thousand five Hundred Pounds. If the Certificates in the States were proportionably distributed in the several Counties this Tax would be very easily paid, especially if proper Barriers were erected against Fraud, and they were allowed to be transferable. There are more than Certificates enough to pay it. It would be politick also, as we thereby discharge so much of our national Debt in an easy Way, while other States pay Money. The Transference of Certificates I have ever been opposed [to] as it has a direct Tendency to depreciate circulating Money by increasing it’s Quantity without Limitation, and could only be advis[able] on the prospect of getting in the Certificates at once. We cann[ot rep]ay them in Money consistendy with other Calls, and their Source of [disco]ntent to the People is very great. But if the Certificates are not [jus]tly distributed, or cannot become so by Transfer, there may be a Difficulty] in collecting this Tax which ought to be considered, provided the Taxes [. . .] by the Act of 9 June last are as much as can possibly be paid in Money [. . .] or none of the old Bills come in by Exchange, they must come in by Tax; if they do come [in] by Exchange, the Taxes laid by the Act just mentioned May be paid at a fourtieth Part in Specie or the new Bills. However, as those Parts of the State which have no Certificates, or but few, have probably sold their Produce for Money, which is therefore more plentiful in those Parts; and as most People I find, consider the Taxes in themselves very easy and light, I would willingly hope that the Legislature will put this recommendation in Practice without Loss of Time. It will be of great Advantage to the Publick by paying Debts, and, it would seem, of no less to the State when duly attended to.
