128 October?, 1780 I find it is the Opinion of many that the United States could tax up to the Expenditures of the War, if Economy were properly established in the publick Departments. This with me, is a doubtful Position. Certain it is we could come much nearer it than we have hitherto. It has been the principal Business of Congress for some Time past, to retrench Expenses; and in this View the Scarcity of Money has been of real Use. One third is paired off already, and much may and will yet be done. I am, with great Respect, your Excellencys obedient humble Servt, Wm Churchill Houston RC (NN: Livingston Papers). RC torn. 1 See Samuel Huntington to the States, September 2, 1780. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir, Philada. 2 October 1780. Enclosed your Excellency will please to receive my humble Respects of 30th ult and of this Day. No. 1, Letter from General Greene, comanding the Army in the Absence of the Comander in Chief, to the President of Congress, of Date 25 Septr. ult. 11 o’Clock at Night; enclosing No 2, of that Day’s Date, from Lt Col. Hamilton, one of General Washington’s Aids. No 3, Letter from General Washington to the President of Congress, dated 26 Septr. ult, enclosing No 4 from B. Arnold to General Washington, dated 25th. No 5 Summary of late Intelligence from New-York. 1 Being scarce of Time, am to beg your Excellency will Communicate the Intelligence contained in these Papers to the Legislature. Instead of abstracting the News respecting Arnold’s Treason and Flight, I have sent the Letters which contain all the authentick Particulars we have received. The Materials are before a Committee and a proper State of Facts will be published by Order of Congress. On Saturday Night last Arnold was carried in Effigy through the Streets of this City, and burnt at the Coffee-House, with his Friend the Devil, in the Presence of thousands of Spectatours. I am, with great Regard, your Excellency’s humble Servt. WC Houston RC (NN: Livingston Papers). 1 The numbered enclosures concerning the discovery of Arnold’s treason, which are in Houston’s hand, are in the Livingston Papers, NN. For the reception of these letters in Congress, see Samuel Huntington to Nathanael Greene, September 27 and to Washington, September 29, 1780.
