October2, 1780 129 Benjamin Huntington to Oliver Ellsworth Dear Sir. Philadelphia Octor.[2?] 1780 1 You will before this arrives have some Account of the Infernal Treason of Genl. Arnold who has in Fact been a Scourge to America Since the beginning of the Present War. The Inclosed 2 Contains what has been already Published Concerning him and his Associates in this Part of the Country. His Effigies with that of his Master were Carried through the Streets of this City in the Evening of the thirtieth of Septr and Burnt at Market Street Wharf amist the Shouts of the Greatest Concourse of People I ever Saw. His Plot was at once to Betray the Commander in Chief with the Marquis De la Fyatt and Deliver up West Point into the Hand of the Enemy, but it was happily Discovered by Means of the British Adjutant General taken as a Spy. I shall Transmit you the Next Publications which will Doubtless give a full Account of the Affair as Represented to Congress. Mr Sherman will Give you an Account of the Late Doings of Congress to Whom I Refer you. I must beg Your Care to Inform the Gentlemen who Come next to Congress that they Must bring Money from home for their Expences as Congress have Resolved that the Delegates Draw no more from the Continental Treasury unless under Absolute Necessity meaning the Necessity of Such Delegates as Represent States in the Hand or Power of the Enemy. I wish to be Relieved before my Term Expires but shall be at Liberty the first of Novr. at all Events, 3 the Gentlemen will not Neglect to be here by that Time. I hope you will find it in your Way or heart (I Care not which) to Come yourself. I have Wrote the Inclosed Application to the Pay Table for a Draught of 160 Dollars of the New Emission for the Purpose of my Expences and to Clear my Debts before I Can Come home. I will Esteem it a Great Kindness if you will Present them the Enclosed Draught & Git the Money and Transmit by the Gentlemen who are Coming, it must be Exchanged for Old Continental as the New will not Pass here and I am afraid it will not for some Time as it has not yet appeared in this City and has some Powerful Enemies who will Do all they Can to Prevent its Passing at all. Any Trouble you Shall be at on my Account will be Retaliated with Pleasure & Gratitude when in my Power. I am with Esteem & Respect, Sir your Most Obedt. Huml Servt, Benj Huntington RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1649.5). Addressed: “To Hone. Oliver Ellsworth Esqr., Hartford, Connecticut. Per Hone Mr. Sherman.” 1 Although Huntington omitted the day from the dateline of this letter, he probably wrote it on October 2. Roger Sherman, who carried this letter to Connecticut,
