130 Octobers, 1780 obtained a leave of absence from Congress on October 2 and apparendy last attended Congress on October 3. JCC, 18:891, 893. 2 Probably the Pennsylvania Packet of September 30. 3 Actually Huntington’s credentials stated that he had been appointed to represent Connecticut “until the first Monday of November next,” or November 6, 1780. JCC, 16:219. Since he was subsequently entrusted with the delivery of a November 9 letter to Connecticut, it is clear that he remained in Philadelphia to the end of his term. See Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, November 9, 1780. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir, Phila. Octr. 2d. 1780 I have been confined to my room almost a week and a great part of the time to my bed. As soon as I can travel with safety I shall set out for Maryland. 1 Congress have it not in their power to do much service at present having neither Credit or Money, in such a distressed situation, who could wish to be of that body? I do not know what is to be done with Gates. Our Brave Officers & Troops are prevented from receiving that Tribute which is justly due to their Merit, because it can not be done through him, and to do it through another channel would be condemning Gates it is said unheard. As General Smallwood is a Majr General I think the Command ought to be given to him. The Commander in chief probably has, or soon will appoint a Successor, for I take it for Granted that Gates will undergo a Court of enquiry as to his precipitate flight. We have not heard from Genl Washington for several days. What has been done with Andre is not known; whether he is to be executed as a Spy, or pardoned on discovery of accomplices, is yet uncertain. We have reason to believe that the Spaniards have Sailed from the Havannah with upwards of 20 Sail of the Line & 20 thousand Troops for Pennsacola & Augustine. But not a word from the French Fleet I am apprehensive they have quitted these Seas. With my respectful [...],! am, Dear Sir, Your affectionate friend, Daniel of St Thos. Jenifer RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 1 Jenifer’s illness prevented him from leaving Philadelphia for another week, for which see John Hanson to Lee, October 9, 1780, note 3. For Jenifer’s involvement in an effort to alter John Jay’s instructions regarding the free navigation of the Mississippi River a few days later, see James Madison s Notes on Marbois “Observations,” October 6-16? 1780, note 2.
