132 October?, 1780 This matter will be Debated tomorrow & I hope the Most Decisive Measures will be pursued. Spain has requested to know if we will build Frigates for her, this will be Determined tomorrow & I hope in the affirmative as it will be a means of Introducing Large Quantities of Specie among us—which must Eventually become our Circulating medium as paper cannot much Longer answer the purpose—it is Easy to keep up the Credit of paper by Seasonable Taxes; but to restore it to Credit after it has been Imprudently Suffered to Depreciate requires more than Humane wisdom. I have the honor to be with the highest Sentiments of Esteem & Respect Dear Sir yr most obedient & very Humble Servant, Jno Sullivan RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 Probably Sullivan’s letter to Weare of September 16. Nathaniel Folsom had obtained leave from Congress on September 15. JCC, 18:831. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Philade Octobe 3d 1780 1 I had the Pleasure last Week of receiving your very affectionate Letter of the 14th of Septr by the Post. You did not tell me expressly that you was well; a material Circumstance which you must never omit to mention. It is a great Satisfaction to me to be informd that Mr Arthur Lee was respectfully treated by my Friends. My Friends are his, and I beleive on the same Principle. But Mr 2 has not seen him. Is not Mr my Friend? He professes to be such, and I verily beleive he is as much so as he can be. If I could always adjust my Ideas of Politicks to his Views, I might perhaps ensure the most flattering Expressions of his Friendship. I expect soon to see it announcd in the Papers that Mr Hancock is elected Governor of the Common Wealth of Massachusetts. 3 I confess I did not foresee that Boston would have been so united as I find they were, when two such Candidates as he and Mr. Bowdoin were set up. Their respective Characters, Abilities and Merit were well-known to the Electors, who therefore acted with their Eyes open. It is to be presumd they have been influencd to this Choice by the pure Motives of publick Affection. A due Attention to the Administration of Government I fancy, will soon determine whether they have acted with Wisdom or not. By the inclosed Papers you will observe that the late General Arnold, after having committed the blackest Treason against his Country, has thrown himself into the Arms of its Enemies. The Particulars youl see in the Paper. You know that I have had my Suspicions of this Traitor, and therefore it is not wonderful that I
