138 Octobers, 1780 James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry Sir, Octr. 3d. 1780 Your Favor of Sepr. 18th reached me yesterday. I believe I have acknowledged the Rect. of those by Col. Wigglesworth, already by post. I have certainly written an Answer by him tho’ he is yet not yet gone. 1 His affair was only finished yesterday. He will deliver you all your Bills of Exchange and Loan Certificates. I could use none for Want of yr. Endorsemt. as I did not timely think of that Circumstance & take Certifts. of the Interest Money in my own Name. I presume it will not derange you if I draw on you for 5325 Dollars by him to repay me for 2451 11/90 Commissary 1718 Horses 570 To Shelden 520 Tickets 66 60/90 Mr. Smith to equalize a Certif[ica]te 5325 71/90 I wish you had not gutted the Story about d d R s. It is hard to tell whether we are Rogues, Raskals or Rebels. I do sincerely desire to know the Story so as to conduct my self on good Grounds. It has strong Features. I ask the names. Even as it is I do not think I shall be able to refrain from putting Mr. Mathews upon Exculpation. 2 Arnold has now, for the first Time, shocked you with his Baseness of Heart. He has made it difficult to tell what is undue Jealousy in such a War as ours. He has turned People mad here. There is an infamous use made of his Doings in this Day’s Paper regarding Genl. Lee it is diabolically far strained. I am far from well tho’ I have been forced into the Practice of Tartar Emetic, Sal Merseille & Warm Baths. From feverish Weathers we have a Change of the cold bilious Kind. I notice what you say very justly about Embarrassments. It took the Frogs Time to know the Difference between a Log & a Stork. Let other Societies take time to examine minutely their Tertium-Quid. I shall endeavor to follow your Wishes if Jones arrives here from France while I am on the Status. Mrs Clymar hopes to be brought to drink your Health by Way of a Salt Mackrel. She only does it now by Way of motherly Affection. Whenever you have made any Settlemt. of yr. Accts, let me know the mode of Estimating my Time & Service that I may endeavor to settle my affairs in that Kind. Mr. & Mrs. Plater are here. She submits to the Trouble of lodging up two Pr. of Stairs rather than not be in Philada. with her Husband
