Octobers, 1780 139 and He I presume wishes to be near his former Intimates. I wish it was so that I could better their Accommodations. Yr. affectionaly, J.L. [RS-] Mr. Adams desires very particularly that I would send Compliments while his “shaking hand” is otherwise necessarily employed. RC (MHi: Gerry Papers). 1 See Lovell to Gerry, September 26, 1780. 2 See Samuel Adams to James Warren, this date, notes 4 and 5. James Lovell to Samuel Holten Dear Sir Oct. 3d. 1780. I thank you for your Remembrance of Sepr. 21st. I hope your absence of four weeks was for the purpose of enjoying Health, not to seek it. Oh Doctor, I feel at this moment, Let me say it without wilful offence to any Class of Men! I feel, Doctor, like a forlorn old cold sour Batchelor. Tartar Emetic warmed me a little but Sal Sennet has made me blue to the Fingers Ends. A pretty Figure of a Gentleman I am indeed to go to Congress in raw northeast drizly weather to contrive how to raise feed cloath & pay an Army without one dollar in the Treasury! Very genial Employment to be sure it will be to listen to all the minute Detail of the Circumstances of a black-died treason! By the Bye Doctor, you are so good a Soul that “Altho’ you have been a little perplexed about his accounts, you could not have thought that the honorable Gentleman would have done Juft so as he has done.” You see I am not too sick to divert myself by taking you off in your own Style: for I am sure you have not been brought to say any Thing more uncomplimentary of Major General Benedict Arnold. Oh, dear Doctor, this Laugh of mine has its attendant Sigh. To what alas! are we exposed in this best of earthly Struggles! When will our Country be at Rest & her Liberty secured?!!! I have I think already done myself the pleasure of sending you the Journals you mention. I renew the numbers which you may give into the Secretary’s office for common Use if you find your own compleated since your Date of Request. Your Friend & h. Servt. James Lovell [Ris'.] Compliments to Mr. Avery. I thank him for returning the Index. I will not omit water Carriage for the Journals of 1778 for him tho’ he has not yet acknowledged those sent by Capt. Burke for 1777. He told me once he had not got them but I suppose he
