142 Octobers, 1780 Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council Gentlemen Philadelphia Octo 3d 1780 From the last return of the Clothier Gen’s, dated in August, there appeared to be about one thousand Suits of Clothing on hand; besides which, there are in the hands of the different purchasing Agents, Cloath enough for 3500 Suits, linen for 20,000 Shirts, Baize (which was a Considerable time Ago ordered to be Milled) for 14,000 Blanketts, a great Sufficiency of Shoes, and Variety of Articles for the Summer Season, Such as linen Overhalls, Hunting Shirts &c. Out of the Stock which was on hand in August, the new raised Maryland regiment has been Supplied. The deficiency of Clothing, which is necessary to be made up, depends principally on the Supplies expected from France, which it is more than probable will not now Arrive in time—be assured we Shall allways endeavour to have Strict Justice done our Troops, in the distribution of what Cloathing there is now on hand, and also of Any that, may hereafter be procured, but as most of what is now on hand, lyes in the Eastern States, and will be transported to Head Quarters, it is probable the Army there will be first Supplied. 1 We have laid your two letters respecting General Gates’s drafts, before Congress, who have not yet Come to any determination on the Subject. 2 We have the honor to be with the most perfect esteem, Your Excellency and Honors most Obed. & humble Servants, Geo. Plater J. Henry Jun John Hanson RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Henry and signed by Henry, Hanson, and Plater. . (‘ Although not explicitly stated, the delegates appear to be answering the Council’s request of September 22 for an account of the “Cloathing annually imported” in order to determine if Maryland troops had received a proportionate share. See Md. Archives, 43:299-300; and the delegates’ September 26 letter to Thomas Sim Lee, note 3. 2 There is no indication in the journals when the Maryland delegates presented the council’s “two letters” of unspecified date to Congress, but for their intention to submit the council’s September 19 letter on the subject of “Gates s drafts on the morning of September 26, see the delegates’ letter of that date to Thomas Sim Lee, note 5.
