Octobers, 1780 143 John Mathews to Nathaniel Peabody Philadelphia Octr. 3d. 1780 Yours of the 23 & 29 Ulto. 1 came safe to hand yesterday. The one of the 23 contains a variety of important matters, as well as [. . .] enclosures, which I shall now reply to. What am I to understand by “Genl. Greene’s letter of resignation to Congress.” We have received no such letter, therefore, am both puzzled & alarmed. 2 Pray explain this matter to me as soon as you can, untill when, I shall feel great anxiety. Great part of your other extracts were new, for which I am much obliged to you. Arnold’s affair rests where it did, when I wrote you last, we have received no further information respecting it. You ask me what is done about a P 1. 3 I think of all the men of ambition I have ever met with in the course of my peregrinations (which have not been confined within a very narrow compass) S.H. bears away the prize in tryumph. So far from his manifesting the least disposition to quit, he seemed to be highly pleased with the opinions of his [you may fill the space as you please] “that he had a right to set there for life.” This is true Republican doctrine. Ay! you may laugh, or get into a passion about it—but I tell you it must be so, because the Greatest Republican^ in America said so. Damnation sieze such Sycophants! Who will sell their consciencies to the Devil for the sake of carrying a favourite point? After four hours hard struggle, all we could obtain was, that all future P ts, should be for elected for one year only, but maugre every exertion, they obtruded their favourite upon us for another year. Could Old Randolph 5 have risen from the Dead, & been in the chair, I wou’d have opposed his continuance, with the same activity & spirit, I did the present person, on the principles of true Republicanism, more especially when I so evidently saw, an elevated station had made a man forget himself, who from being a very modest one, had so strongly inbibed the sweets of power, as to become a very conceited, & ambitious one. Did the man possess abilities for the station, I could have acquiessed with a tolerable degree of content, but when I know he possesses no one requisite for it, I must confess my feelings are egregiously hurt. I think, had almost any other man been in his situation, when he found how extremely disagreeable his continuance in office was, to a number of members, he would have made it a point to have had a new election, & taken his chance, but he verifyed the Old proverb “A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.” I have much more to Say on this subject, but will reserve it for a tete a tete. 6 I come now to the most interesting part of your letter, i.e. the opening, & garbling your letters. Great God! how humiliating is it
