Octobers, 1780 145 resignation as quartermaster general, for which see his endorsement above and the Committee at Headquarters’ letters to Samuel Huntington, July 27, and to Greene July 28, 1780. 3 The question had arisen because September 28 marked the anniversary of Samuel Huntington’s election as president of Congress. The same day John Henry moved “That the rule laid down in the Articles of Confederation respecting the election of the President of Congress [i.e., to a one-year term] be henceforward observed,” but only Maryland, Virginia, South Carolina, and Georgia supported the motion. Nevertheless, after agreeing unanimously that “no rule or practice of the house” limited the term for which a president was elected, the delegates went on to affirm that henceforth “the continuance of the President in office shall not be longer than one year from this day, and that all future elections shall be agreeable to the rule marked out by the Confederation.” JCC, 18:869-71. 4 Probably Samuel Adams. 5 Peyton Randolph, the first president of Congress. 6 For a characterization of Mathews’ attack on Huntington, see Larry R. Gerlach, Connecticut Congressman: Samuel Huntington, 1731-1796 (Hartford, Conn., American Revolution Bicentennial Commission of Connecticut, 1976), pp. 66-68. 7 See Mathews to Catharine W. Livingston, September 12, 1780, note 1. Committee for Foreign Affairs to Mr. McCarrick Sir 1 Philadelphia 4 Oct 1780 Your Letter of July 22 to the honorable James Searle Esqr introducing Mr Magnall 2 was put into my hands, and leads me to take the freedom of recommending to your care a packet for the Honorable Mr Jay at Madrid, to whom, by order of Congress, the business on which Mr Magnall came is communicated. With an offer of mutual services, and in the name of the Committee of Foreign affairs, I am your Friend, Signed James Lovell FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). In a clerical hand. 1 Lovell later identified his correspondent as “Mr. McCarrick of St. Cruz” de Tenerife, in a June 4, 1781, letter to John Jay. 2 Mangnall, often spelled Magnall, an American sailor, had been detained by Spanish authorities after he, Thomas Shuker, and several other former American prisoners sailed a “captured” British cutter, the Dover, into Santa Cruz de Tenerife in the Spanish Canary Islands, while attempting to reach the United States. The Americans claimed the Dover under Congress’ October 14, 1777, resolution awarding crews of British ships the prize value of their ships if they could capture and bring them into American ports. In this case, the Spanish governor of Tenerife seized the Dover and claimed it as a lawful prize of a British owned ship, thus disregarding the captors’ claims under American law. As a result the Americans appealed to Congress to plead their case with Spanish authorities. Thomas Shuker first wrote from Tenerife on April 27, 1780, pleading the crew’s case, but the letter, which was read on May 26, 1780, elicited no response from Congress. John Mangnall then wrote letters of July 15 and 16, 1780, from Tenerife which were read on August 23 and assigned to the Committee for Foreign Affairs. The issue might have died there if Mangnall had not reached Philadelphia, from whence he addressed Congress on September 22, apparently prodding Congress to direct John Jay to intervene with Spain to preserve the benefits of the October 14, 1777, resolution for the Dover’s captors.
