October 6, 1780 151 that New Hampshire had no Title and New Hampshire that New York had None: That therefore it belonged to Neither: That the Charter to the Duke of York comprehended New Jersey And Delaware and parts of Connecticut and Pensylvania and coud not be admitted to establish a Title: That there were several independant Nations besides Vermont in the Bounds of the United States: the Cherokees, Creeks &c. That He therefore moved that the Resolution under Consideration shoud be postponed to make place for another which he moved—to witt—the People of Vermont declared an Independant State. But he was not seconded. Mr. Maddison. Expressed his surprize that the Motion shoud be represented as unfair or indirect. That he intended it to bring the true Question before Congress: for that if the District in Question was comprehended within the Jurisdiction of one or more of the United States, it must necessarily follow, that the Inhabitants coud have no Right to set up an independant State. That it had been clearly proved to lie within New York or New Hampshire: for as these States were bounded upon each other there coud be no Room between them for another Jurisdiction. That Congress (having the Rights of peace and war coud not and.') by the original Union of the States must have a {Controuling) Superior [deciding ?] power over the states and that 4 Mr. Howly. That Gendemen had not touched on the true Grounds which ought to decide the present Question. The Right ought not to be considered: it was premature and tho’ much might be said upon it, at this time it was improper. The Expediency of a Decision in the critical Situation of our Affairs ought alone to be the Basis of the determination. He then insisted that it was no time to controvert our Jurisdictions but to oppose the common Enemy. After expatia- tions on this Topic, he said that he must make some Remarks on the Right. That the people ought to be considered as direlict for New Hampshire had given up & abandond them: And that the King of Great Britain had no power without their own Consent to annex them to New York. That they never did Acquiesce under that Government. That the Crown of England coud not like an arbitrary German prince make over his People as if they were a Flock of Sheep. That New York did not begit the Inhabitants of the Grant: that they had treated them cruelly, imprisond their persons and seized their Lands: that they had a Right to become Independant on the same principles which had Authorized these States to shake off the British Yoke. Mr. Ingersole That 5 MS (NHi: Duane Papers). In the hand of James Duane. 1 Apparently a motion by James Madison of September 16, which had become a focal point of the New Hampshire Grants debate. JCC, 18:832-33. 2 In the margin beside this paragraph, Duane wrote the following list of “Speakers.” “Honl Messrs. Huntington Cont, Bland Virg, Maddison Virg, Howley
