152 October 6, 1780 Georgia, Ingersole Pens., Matthews S. Car, Henry Maryl, Van Dyke Del., Bee S. Carol.” However, only his account of the remarks of Huntington, Bland, Madison, and Howly were recorded here. 3 The speaker here was undoubtedly one of the Huntingtons of Connecticut, but both Benjamin and Samuel were attending Congress at this time. 4 This account of Madison’s speech ends abruptly here. 5 Duane’s notes end abruptly at this point. James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir Philada. 6 October 1780 I have this moment stopt Mr Ray who was geting into his Carriage to inform your Excellency that the Vermont business is to be decided this Evening; The Event uncertain from the Strange and unjustifible Measures of the Vermonteers which I shall explain in my next. 1 The Requisition for the draft on the Treasury meets with opposition from the Example-, as the four tenths of the new Emission is All the present dependance of Congress to pay & move the Army: this as well as the Resolution respecting the Change of a Supply of Beef for Flour are under Commitment. You Sir will see the necessity of preserving in every Event a Magazine for the Forts in the high Lands and I trust Measures will be taken by the State that no Contingency will oblige the Garrison to evacuate it for want of provisions. General Scott has been confind by Indisposition near a month and is really in a bad way having lost his Appetite and daily loosing his Strength. I have advised Dr. McKnight to remove him home. In the mean time both he & I [are involved] in debt having no provision from the State. I entreat your Excellency to advise me on this Subject, Having in vain written to the Legislature and to the Treasurer. Mr Ray is impatient for my Letter which obliges me to break off. Accept my respectful compliments to Mrs Clinton And the most perfect Esteem and Regard for your Excellency. NB The Chancellor is on his way home & will give you the politics & news. I am Sir, Your Excellency’s most obedt & very humble Servt. Jas. Duane P.S. Arnold struck off the List of Generals with Infamy. Genl. Gates recalled for a Court of Enquiry. Commander in Chief to appoint a Successor. 2 No news of the French Fleet. Spaniards in motion to the Southward: nothing important from Europe. A new Arrangement of the Army agreed to & Submitted to the General for his opinion if approved to take Effect. RC (PHi: Jenkins Collection). 1 See the preceding entry, and Duane to Clinton, October 7, 1780. 2 Congress took this action on October 5. See JCC, 18:906; and Samuel Huntington to George Washington, this date.
