158 October 6, 1780 entre 1’Espagne et les Etats unis de l’amerique” enclosed with his letter of the 17th, see Archives du Ministere des affaires etrangeres: Correspondence politique, Etats- Unis, 14:68-73, 106-15, 118-35, 139-47. For discussions of Marbois’ purposes in preparing his “Observations,” all of which rely too exclusively upon the marquis’ own account of the episode, see Paul C. Phillips, The West in the Diplomacy of the American Revolution (1913; reprint ed., New York: Russell & Russell, 1967), pp. 180-83; Kathryn Sullivan, Maryland and France, 1774-1789 (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1936), pp. 88-90; and William E. O’Donnell, The Chevalier De La Luzerne. French Minister to the United States, 1779-1784 (Bruges: Desdee de Brouwer, 1938), pp. 109-11. For evidence that Jenifer may have been less active in this attempt than Marbois hinted to Vergennes, because of illness that kept him from attending Congress and his eagerness to return to Maryland at this time, see Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to Thomas Sim Lee, October 2, 1780. Rendon, on the other hand, seems to have learned of the congressional debate on Jay’s instructions some time after Madison’s committee had been appointed, and accordingly consulted Marbois, probably after the latter and Jenifer had already sought to influence Madison. At Marbois’ suggestion, Rendon thereupon prepared a letter dated October 14 which Marbois employed in his own campaign to gain the ear of Congress, and which succeeded to the degree that the French and Spanish concerns over Jay’s instructions were fully aired in committee of the whole. Rendon’s explanation of Congress’ proceedings on the subject, which he clearly derived from second and third hand reports, is found in the following letter to Jose de Galvez, Spanish minister of the Indies. “I have been informed confidentially,” Rendon wrote to Galvez on October 20, “that the receipt of an official paper from their minister Mr. Jay has caused in the Congress different controversies about the cited claims [i.e. “freedom to navigate the Mississippi River”], and that far from giving up such privilege, they were deciding unalterably to obtain it, based on the fact that by no other way will they be able, without insuperable difficulty and enormous costs, to export the productions which will be supplied by the vast territories which they posses on the Ohio, which flows into the Mississippi, down which they propose to navigate and to go out into the Gulf of Mexico. “This information, and the knowledge of how much effort had been expended in this matter, as well as my inexpressable desire for the glory and augmentation of the Royal Dominions of our Gracious Sovereign, impelled me to consult M. Marbois, charge d’affaires of His Most Christian Majesty in the absence of the minister plenipotentiary, to request that as far as his authority permitted he would endeavour to prevent the Congress from passing the resolution regarding those claims, and that on the contrary it change the instructions which to that effect had been given to its minister, by virtue of the fact that the members had offered that in various conferences which they had held with the previous minister plenipotentiary of France, M. Gerard. M. Marbois answered my plea by saying that he knew positively that the Congress was discussing the matter at present and that the majority of its members were determined not to change in any manner the articles which deal with that privilege in the said instructions which they gave to their minister, but that, nevertheless, if I should write a letter to him with that request, he would by virtue of it make a representation to the Congress, explaining the injustice and baselessness of its claims, and he would bring to bear all his influence to dissuade the Congress from that resolution. “Consequently I proceeded to write the letter, with the date of the 14th instant, limiting its content entirely to the points expressed above, and the said M. Marbois introduced his representation, explaining in it with the greatest energy that no right afforded them that privilege, making them comprehend that in no manner would the King our Sire agree to its concession, as well as that it was surely the time to choose means of gaining the powerful protection of that sovereign, whose sponsorship would facilitate their greatest successes, and that on the contrary they were acting
