October 6, 1780 159 to offend his Royal benign inclination to favour them. That paper was read in a plenary cession of the Congress, and it seems to have caused the greatest effect on the representatives, for the said M. Marbois has told me that several of them have promised him to accede and to cooperate for the achievement of whatever contributes to the satisfaction and desire of our Gracious King, assuring him that the majority has agreed to that, and therefore the conferences have ceased for now discussion of the matter. “The notable defect of not having the necessary facility for communicating these facts to your Excellency in cipher deprives me of the distinguished honour of relating them in all their details, for all that has happened and may occur as a result of them requires that they not be risked as is public news to the danger that the inexperience or carelessness of the captain who convey them to European ports might allow the enemy to know of them, an accident that could be extremely adverse. Therefore, M. Marbois has said that he will send to his Court the documents which give the particulars, so that Your Excellency can thus be informed. I offer my obedience, etc.” Audiencia de Santo Domingo, Legajo 1233, Archivo General de Indias, Seville, (Aileen Moore Topping translation, Manuscript Division, DLC). s See JCC, 16:114-15. 4 Since this manuscript has been damaged, readings in brackets here and below have been taken from the three-volume edition of The Papers of James Madison (Washington: Langtree & O’Sullivan, 1840), vol. 1, Appx., pp. iii-v, edited by Henry D. Gilpin less than four years after Madison’s death. John Mathews to George Washington Sir Philadelphia Octr. 6th. 1780 Congress having Ordered a Court of enquiry on the conduct of Majr. Genl. Gates as Commander of the southern army, And directed your Excellency to appoint an Officer to that command, 1 I am authorized by the Delegates of the three Southern States to communicate to your Excellency their wish that Majr. Genl. Greene may be the Officer appointed to the Command of the Southern department, if it would not be incompatible with the rules of the Army. 2 I have the honor to be, with the highest respect & the most sincere Esteem & regard, yr.Excys most Obed, servt. Jno. Mathews RG (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 The October 5 resolutions ordering a court of inquiry for Horatio Gates and the appointment of a new southern commander were adopted on a motion of Mathews and seconded by Whitmell Hill of North Carolina. JCC, 18:906. 2 Washington offered Nathanael Greene command of the southern department on October 14, so informing Congress the following day. See Washington, Papers (Fitzpatrick), 20:181-83, 189-90; andPCC, item 152, 9:297-99. Greene’s October 16 letter of acceptance is in the Washington Papers, DLC. On October 22 Washington prepared instructions for Greene and notified Congress of Greene’s acceptance. On the 27th Greene also informed Congress of his appointment and requested information concerning Congress’ plans for the prosecution of the war in the south. Washington, Papers (Fitzpatrick), 20:238-40, 244-45; PCC, item 152, 9:323-24, item 155, 1:447-48. That day Congress referred these letters from Washington and Greene to a committee of five, chaired by William Sharpe, which
