160 October?, 1780 reported the 30th. Congress thereupon approved and specified the terms of Greene’s appointment. JCC, 18:982, 994-96. See also Samuel Huntington’s letters to Greene and to Certain States, October 31, 1780. James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir [October 7, 1780] 1 Yesterday I wrote to your Excellency by Mr. Ray. As I then led you to expect Congress went in the Evening upon the Subject of Vermont and altho’ there was a great disagreement in Opinion the Debates took a Turn most injurious to New York which could not have {been) looked for and clearly satisfied me that several States were disposed to support the Independence of our revolted Citizens. The Deleg[ates] of Pensylvania act under the Influence of Instructions from their Legislature requiring them to consent to no Act of Coercion agt any people friendly to the Revolution nor, to suffer at this critical Conjuncture the Time of Congress to be taken up by the Concerns of any particular State. General Cor[n]el the Delegate from Rhode Island has declard that many of the principal People of that State & the Officers & Soldiers of their Cont. Bat. 2 have accepted Grants under the assumd States. It is even affirmed that the Governour is one & that he has desird the Delegates to take Care of his Interest. General Cornel has candidly confessed that he cannot Vote agt the Independ, of Vermont because it woud in effect Vacate those Grants. The Delegate from Delaware 3 who did not hear a Word of the Evidence pronounced his opinion clearly that Congress coud not interfere. Some other Members doubted their own Authority. Col Bland a New Member from Virginia bluntly proposed a Resolution that Vermont shoud be declared independent tho his Coleagues are of a different opinion; nor was he seconded. 4 Nothing therefore is to be expected from Congress. 5 The Embarrasmt of our publick Affairs & the bold Declarations of the Vermonters that they have allies & can make a separate peace are not I presume without Influence on this Occasion. But the Acts of our Antagonists & the shameful prostitution of the disputed lands to gain a party in some of the States have in my Judgement no inconsiderable weight. I am of Opinion that our Legislature must depend on their own Wisdom to manage this unhappy Business. I refer you to Mr. Knolton who has acted with the utmost firmness, Diligence & propriety for further Information. The Time of my retiring from Congress swiftly approaches merely for want of a Supply of money to defray necessary Expences. I feel myself Hurt to be obliged to mention this Subject again. But it is
