October?, 1780 163 Willie Jones to Abner Nash Dr. sr. Philad. Octr. 7th. 1780 I wrote to you fully a few days per fav. of Mr. Stanley; but he has been detained by bad Weather, and is now here. Mr. Sharp arrived the Day before yesterday, 1 by whom I received your favors of 10th & 14th ulto. Congress yesterday resolv’d that Genl. Washington order a Court of Inquiry on the Conduct of Genl. Gates as Commander of the Southern Army; and that he appoint an Officer to take that Command, in the Room of Genl. Gates, until the Inquiry shall be had. I will write to you again soon. I am, Dr. Sr., Yours sincerely, Willie Jones RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 1 Jones probably drafted this letter on October 6, since William Sharpe actually took his seat in Congress on October 4 and the resolves of “yesterday” mentioned in the next sentence were adopted on October 5. See JCC, 18:898; and Samuel Huntington to Washington, October 6, 1780. Theodorick Bland to St. George Tucker Philadelphia Octr. the 8th or 9th Dr. Tucker I dont know which Tit for Tat I have Just time to write you that I am well, there is no news but what I wrote you in my last except that Majr. Andre was hanged the 2d Inst. He died like a Gent and a Soldier as tis said—the Small circumstance of the Rope excepted. Josua Smith of N-York will tis expected hurry in a few days one of Arnolds Accomplices and the Underworker of his Villainous plot. Poor Clarkson Arnolds former aid is in Goal here, on Suspicion of having been engaged with Arnold in some nefarious practices in Commerce. Seagrove has been confined (but we hear is baild) on the same acct, and your Acquaintance C 1 has likewise been examined and admitted to Bail without confinement. Wonderfull discoveries are said to be made by Arnolds papers—but the Business of Congress which is at this Juncture of the most important and interesting nature engrosses my whole attention so that I have no time to inquire into the particulars of these matters. God Bless you all my love to Fanny and the boys and Girls if in the Plural Number. God Bless you all adieu & beleive me to be, yrs. most affectly. Theok. Bland RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 That is, Maj. Mathew Clarkson, James Seagrove, and apparently William Constable.
