164 Octobers, 1780 John Sullivan to Nathaniel Peabody Dear Sir Philadelphia October 8th 1780 I was on Tuesday Last honored with your favor of the 27th ulto. 1 & you will believe me when I tell you that I was Compelled to wait till Sunday to give an answer. Every moment of my time Last week was Employed in Congress & in Committees; & I flatter myself that this will Sufficiently apologize for Delaying the acknowledgment. I am Exceedingly unhappy that I was So unfortunate as to be Deprived the pleasure of Seeing you on my Journey as I was Equally Desirous of a private Conversation which prudence forbids us to Commit to paper. I am Convinced of the Fact you are pleased to mention Respecting persons being prejudiced against me as I have often felt the Effect of it; but am at a Loss to know Individuals & by the misfortune of not Seeing you must for the present remain in Ignorance. I am much Indebted for the part you have Ever taken respecting me & the opinion you have been pleased to form of my publick Conduct & hope no future Transactions of my Life will Compell you to alter your Sentiments. I cannot perswade myself but my Dismission from the Army in the manner I was Conducted furnishes the most Striking Evidence of prejudice in the Southern States against the Northern: but a Contrary Conduct at that time could not have prevented the Same Event from taking place. 2 I have Examined the Copy of your Letter to Colo Bartlet 3 & think it replete with Solemn Truths Such as at this Day we Compell Congress to hear with Patience, this will at Least Excuse you from the Crime of high Treason; I have Conversed with Mr Mathes 4 respecting the affair but hear no mention of your Letter from any Quarter. I think your friend Mathes an honest & Sincere man, he is Joined with a number of us who are Determined to Eradicate party Spirit & Silence or at Lest Lessen the Influence of party men. I Sincerely thank you for the Intelligence you Inclosed respecting Arnold &c and I Shall be happy in keeping up a Constant Correspondance with you. The Journals of Congress belonging to you were Left by General Foulsom at my Lodging. I wish you to Inform me how I may foreward them. Those which come out in future I shall Inclose you from time to time as they are published. We have no foreign Intelligence & Indeed none of the Domestic kind Save that of General Gates’s being recalled from the Southern Department & ordered to be tryed for his Conduct. 5 I take the Liberty of Inclosing you a Letter to General Foulsom which I brought from Exeter but being mislaid by my Servant was not Delivered to him. I beg you will forward it by a Safe Conveyance.
