October 9, 1780 173 him—and asked him a question—respecting the propriety of certificates being paid in the case when Bills were contracted for. He G. observed the impossibility of the Public paying their contracts—he G. observed that if justice was not to be attended to it was in vain to apply for it. Applyed to B. Wr.—and was informed that B.T. would now attend it. He applied & met Mr Foreman ought of their hours who did not understand the business—and declared that the business, had never been laid before the business [board?]— but it appeared notwithstanding in the minutes. Mr. F. said there was a lapse some where—for that it had never come to the Knowledge of the board. C. refered to the Minutes—F. could not find it, but C. showed it him—he said it must have been when he was abroad for six weeks. C. said it had been neglected in the treasury office. Qu[estion]. Mr. F. Hopkinson. For what particular purpose was that contract made? A[nswer], To Supply the first Virginia troops with cloathing; which I was informed they could not proceed without them. Qu. Have the Treasury board compleated that contract; is the amount paid? An. No: not a farthing of it. I ought to have said that Mr. Gibson requested the state of the Contract to be committed to writing. Qu. Have the Treasury board issued any warrants for the payment of their Contracts? A. No. those Contracts were principally for the use of the troops Marching to the Southward—some few for other purposes. Qu. by Mr. Gibson. What was it that Mr Forman had said to you? An. That Mr Forman said he would answer upon his Memory that it had not been made to the board on the business. Afterwards that it must have been Made in his six weeks absence—And that he was very much surprised to hear him say that Justice was not concerned in it. Qu. What was it that the Board of war answered to you? An. That the Board of war found fault with the Treasury for delays. The words not remembered; but this was the sentinent. Qu. Repeated. An. That the Board, in their conversation on the subject blamed the Treasury as raising unnecessary delays and objections in their business. Qu. by Mr Forman. Was this application to the Treasury from the Board of war; or from the Congress? An. He did not certainly know, but supposed from the Board of War. Qu. by Mr Gibson. Was you ever treated by the Treasury or any of them with undue pride or insolence &c? An. Except in the instance of the reply, that they were not considering the justice of the case—And that he thought Mr. Forman
