178 October 9, 1780 I gave yesterday respecting the Board of Treasury,” which are in PCC, item 62, fols. 351-71. For Pettit’s “business with the Treasury. . . . Some time last spring,” see Thomas Burke to Pettit, May 15, 1780, note. 7 Matlack appears to have left the hearing at this point in the proceedings. The following question and answer were recorded by Thomas McKean, and the next several entries are in an unidentified hand before Matlack resumed the minutes. 8 Sharp Delany, one of the managers of the Continental lottery. 9 James Mease, former clothier general. 10 Philadelphia printer John Dunlap. 11 Ephraim Blaine, commissary general of purchases. 12 Michael Hillegas, treasurer of the United States. 13 Probably Charles Lee, secretary of the Board of Treasury. 14 For the continuation of these proceedings, see the committee’s minutes, October 11, 1780. Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Dear Sir, Philadelphia, Oct. 10, 1780 I do myself the honour to write to your Excellency by this day’s post; and when I reflect that I have been honoured by only two letters from you since I arrived at this place, 1 I fear my scrolls have been disagreeable, but shall continue them until I am informed. The arrangements of the army hath passed in Congress in the same form I mentioned in my last. 2 So far as respects the reducing officers, is referred to General Washington for his opinion on the mode proposed before it will be published. So far as it respects the number of troops and time of service for the ensuing year, is ordered to be sent to the respective States, 3 which I apprehend you will receive before this will reach you, by which you will see our quota is five hundred and eighty non-commissioned officers and privates. I trust the State will have no objection to the number, and I flatter myself they will take measures to have the quota compleated for the war, and in the field by the time limited, at least it is my most earnest wish; and I hope to be so happy as to have the Honourable General Assembly to concur with me in sentiments. Congress is busily employed in Committee and otherwise, in reducing the public expences and devising ways and means for raising money and supplies, and preparing an estimate of the national expense for the year ensuing. The affair of the Hampshire grants is yet before Congress undetermined, and I am not able to say positively what will be done, but have reason to believe Commissioners will be appointed agreeable to the confederation, to enquire into and settle the claims between the States of New York and New Hampshire, and report to Congress: after which it is probable the independence of Vermont will be taken into consideration. Congress have ordered an enquiry to be made into General Gates’s
