October 10, 1780 179 conduct during his command to the southward, and that he be suspended from his command until such enquiry be made; and directed General Washington to send a Major General to take the command of the southern army. Your Excellency was pleased to inform, in your letter of the 25th of July, that the General Assembly had, at their last session, adopted the resolution of Congress of the 18th of March last, and fixed sufficient funds for the redemption of the State’s quota. I expected the act would have been sent forward long before this, but as it hath not come to hand, I wish to know the reason, that I may be able to answer Congress when I am called upon, which hath been done often. 4 I have not the least doubt but it hath been kept back upon just principles, and I wish the prospect of the new bills having a quick circulation, was greater than I have any assurance of in those States that have received them. Congress last week compleated the system of the hospital department, 5 and made choice of the necessary surgeons, physicians, and hospital officers, by which means more than fifty surgeons, &c. have gone to the right about by the number being lessened, by which means I am sure much money will be saved, and I trust the sick will be better taken care of. I have the honour to be, with every sentiment of respect and esteem, Your Excellency’s most obedient humble servant, Ezekial Cornell. Reprinted from the New York Royal Gazette, “Extraordinary,” October 25, 1780. Tr (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). In the hand of Cornell, who informed Greene in a letter of November 9 that he made this copy after learning that the original was intercepted on October 20 at Stratford, Conn., along with the entire packet of the “eastern” post. This was the first of two “eastern” packets captured within a month at Stratford Landing. Selected letters from both were subsequently published in James Rivington’s Royal Gazette. See also John Sullivan to Meshech Weare, November 15, 1780. 1 These letters, of July 22 and 25, are in PCC, item 64, fols. 478-85; and Staples, Rhode Island, pp. 296-97. 2 See Cornell to William Greene, September 19, 1780. 3 See Samuel Huntington to the States, October 6, 1780, which was also among the letters captured by the British on October 20. 4 A copy of the Rhode Island act arrived on October 16. See Cornell to Greene, August 15, note 2, and October 17, 1780. 5 See Samuel Huntington to William Shippen, October 9, 1780.
