October 10, 1780 181 Sentiments and vigorous Exertions; and with your Excellency I pray God That the fatal Delusion which has marked our Conduct may end here. When the Enemy turn their Eyes to the Southward they see too much Imbecility not to be encourged to attempt to extend their Conquest and improve Advantages which they have derived in no small Degree from our own Temerity and Misconduct: I believe we shall not want Men to oppose them, Virginia having made Efforts the Expansiveness of which is incredible, and North Carolina being equally disposed to act vigorously tho’ not so capable to raise their Quota for a fixed and certain period. I wish we may have it in our power to provide the necessary Supplies: your Excellency too well knows and feels our difficulties and Embarrasments, and that they are only to be surmounted by great Exertions. I flatter myself that you do me no more than Justice in believing that Duty and Inclination equally demand my Assiduous Endeavours to correct our past Errors and draw forth our Resources. I am much obliged to your Excellency for your Account of the Interview at Hartford; 3 and beg you to believe that no Man can be with greater Affection and personal Estatchment, than I am, My dear General, Your most Obedient and very humble Servant, Jas Duane RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:117-18. 2 For Washington’s lengthy October 11 response to Congress, and the October 21 resolutions adopted in consequence of his “Representations,” see ibid., pp. 157-67; and Samuel Huntington’s first letter to the States, October 26, 1780. 3 In his October 4 letter to Duane, Washington had explained that his “Interview at Hartford” with the comte de Rochambeau and the chevalier de Temay had “produced nothing conclusive because neither side knew with certainty what was to be expected.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:76-81, 118. John Hanson to Charles Carroll of Carrollton My Dear sir Philadelphia October 10th 1780 I am much obliged to you for your favour by the last post. The Letters inclosed Shall be taken Care of. Mr McCarty is now in Town. I now inclose you the Crisis Extraordinary 1 and the last papers, to which I beg leave to refer you for news. All expectations of the Arrival of the French fleet seems now to be at an end. Ternay by raising fortifications on Rhode Island has it is thought Secured His fleet and the Army Against Any Attack of the Enemy. This being the Case, And Clinton haveing failed putting in Execution his designs Against West Point, it is probable his next object will be to the Southward. The Climate is favourable for a Winter Campaign, and a number
