190 October 11, 1780 Treasury Inquiry Committee Minutes Tuesday October 11. 1780 Present Mr. McKean, Mr. Walker & Mr. Matlack. Mr Huston. 1 Has sat at the treasury board for six months, that in the first about 3 months they did business as may be said with open doors—that it was found very inconvenient especially when applications became very frequent, that he does not precisely recollect the hours appointed; but was of opinion that there was a real occasion for setting apart particular hours to hear application, and others for the Purpose of drawing reports to Congress. That as to the particular hours appointed he had never given his dissent to the times. Offered in Evidence Minutes of Treasury Board. April 1 1780. Present Mr. Huston, Mr. Burke, 2 Mr. Forman. And Advertisement of the hours for receiving business by application— appointing the hours from 12 ’til two and from four to five. Second charge 3 of assuming a dangerous power of preference to particular warrants &c. Mr. Huston. Ordered, That the Treasurer be directed to discharge the warrant in favour of Mr Pettit, for forwarding the troops to the southward, should be paid in preference of all others—agreably to the spirit of the order of Congress for the forwarding that purpose— But that it was not understood to extend generally to all cases. This necessity continued when the Maryland troops passed forward. 22nd April 1780. Minutes of the Board of Treasury. Present Mr Gibson, Mr Huston & Mr Burke. “That the Treasurer pay such monies only upon warrants accompanied by a letter of advice from this Board.” Mr. Hopkinson. Appeals to the minutes for a reprimand given to Mr Hillegas for advancing a small sum to clerks in the offices when in great distress—and shortly after giving a draft in favour of Mr Forman for the sum of 30,000 dollars which was directed to be paid. Minutes forbiding payment by the Treasury but on special order. May 2. Present Gibson, Burke, Huston, Order to Mr. Forman for 30,000 Dollars. 1st June. Order for payment on the 24th with many others—intermediately others were paid. Minutes, June 16. Present Gibson, Forman, Henry, 4 Denning. The Treasurer have advice to pay the warrants on him contained in his return dated the same day. Ordered that the strictest attention be paid to the orders of 22nd April & 2nd May last respecting monies [that] may be in the Treasury. The examining of the account admitted and the accot. having been seen before and the facts agreed the same was not now examined. Note alteration in general of the manner of [arranging the names
