October 12,1780 191 of the Commissioners present after 22nd April—the Commissioner always first named. Remarks by Mr Gibson. The Treasury Board is no board of Account. The accounts are to be kept by the Chamber of Accounts— and the Treasury only keep Journals. That inconsistent or erronious orders have been founded on the Errors of returns from the Treasurer of Loans. 5 Adjourned to 10 tomorrow morning.® MS (DNA: PCC, item 62). In the hand of Timothy Matlack. A continuation of the committee minutes of October 9, 1780. 1 New Jersey delegate William Churchill Houston. 2 North' Carolina delegate Thomas Burke. 3 Actually this was the third charge directed against the treasury commissioners by Francis Hopkinson, for which see Treasury Inquiry Committee Minutes, October 9, 1780, note 1. 4 Virginia delegate James Henry, who was elected to the Board of Treasury on May 10, 1780, in the place of James Duane. JCC, 17:420, 18:1230. 5 The miscellaneous papers related to this inquiry located in the PCC also include two pages of detached notes in Matlack’s hand whose precise relationship to the minutes of proceedings cannot be determined. As the first of these consists of a comment on “incorrect Orders &c,” they are quoted together here in the absence of a better place to intrude them. “As to incorrect Orders &c. The Superintends, of the Press say they have received such, but imputed them rather to the Inatention of the Secretarys & Clerks in the Treasury office than to the Fault of the Board itself.” PCC, item 62, fol. 87. “Mr. Hopkinson. Sent his account, which he desired might have been setled, that it was desired to have been sent, Mr. H. proved that he had sent it sealed to the Board. He was then told it was lost and a second and a third account was sent in different form. “Mr. Nicholson has obtained leave of absence from the Treasury Board without the chamber of accounts being consulted. “Q. To the Managers of the Lottery put by Comsonssrs. of Treasury. Have you discovered in the Board of Tr. any degree of undue pride or Insolence of office? “A. We have always been treated with due respect & civility by the Comonss. of the Treasury. “Q. The same. To the Superintdts. of the Press. “A. The same as above.” Ibid., fol. 388. 6 For the continuation of these proceedings, see the committee’s minutes, October 12, 1780. Charles Thomson to John Jay Sir, Philada Octr. 12. 1780 I have received your letter of 27 May And the duplicate with the Prints for which I am much obliged and will embrace the first oppertunity of transmitting one set of the Prints agreeable to your request to Gen. Schuyler. 1 I have been anxious with respect to your being informed regularly of what is passing here. Many things have happened of which you ought to be acquainted. I perceive the
