October 12, 1780 193 these embarassments, they set every engine to Work to continue & encrease them by counterfeiting the currency, multiplying their emissaries to deny its credit, tampering with our Army and at the same time prosecuting the War with a greater degree of vigour than they had done from the commencement of it. To the honour of our country I must inform you that history cannot produce such Instances of fortitude, patience & perseverance as were exhibited by our virtious Army. Though exposed to hunger & nakedness amidst the rigours of a most inclement winter they struggled through with unparrelled firmness & notwithstanding the tempting bribes and offers of the enemy And the incredible hardships they suffered the desertions were comparatively few. Congress finding it necessary, in order to baffle the designs of our enemy and curb intestine avarice to adopt more decided Measures, resolved on the 18 March to call in by taxes & burn all the Money heretofore emitted to the amount of 200 Millions of dollars in the Course of one year And in lieu thereof to issue Ten Millions new money which was to be issued as fast and no faster than the old was brought in, At the rate of 20 of the old for one of the new. And it was resolved that in the payment of taxes gold and silver should be received at the rate of 40 for one, at which rate also the new money was to be received by Which means its value was fixed & those Who had amassed large quantities of the old paper were disappointed in their hopes of Converting it into gold. They proceeded further and fixed the value of certificates for money loaned from Sept 1777 to March 1780 rating the value of the money on every day between those two periods, that the lender might receive the full value of the Money lent both in principal And Interest and that the public Might not be loaded with a debt for which they received no equivolent. For it was urged with great reason as contrary to every rule of right and Justice that the landed property which is the principal object of taxation should be loaded with the burden of paying off a certificate for Instance of two hundred dollars, which was procured with the price of three bushels of wheat and less with that Number of silver dollars which are in reallity Worth from 80 to 100 times the value of the Money lent. These regulations were deemed so just & equitable that the people acquiesed and the states have generally enacted laws conformable thereto. By these means the debt incurred by a War of six years was fixed at about one or two & twenty Millions of dollars—a War which has cost our enimies upwards of sixty Millions sterling. I ought to have observed to you that of the ten millions to be issued in lieu of the 200 Millions which were ordered to be paid in by taxes & burned Congress assigned six Millions to the states to enable them to purchase the specific articles required of them, reserving 4 Millions for paying the Army and defraying the expences of transportation and other incidental charges. But while these
