October 12, 1780 195 approaching, in which his troops must suffer greatly for want of tents, encouraged by sundry successes against the enemy’s outposts he was induced to march towards Camden with the hopes of driving the enemy from thence and establishing his headquarters in that village, where he would have been able to put his troops under cover and supply them plentifully with provisions, and confine the enemy to the low country, in which case they would have been obliged either to retire into Charlestown and leave him the command of the country, or by attempting to keep the field would have exposed their army in the sickly season to a loss by death equal to a defeat. Unfortunately he failed in the attempt. The battle of the 16 of August, which you have a particular account of in the public papers, broke up the army he had collected & forced him back into North Carolina. The Maryland and Delaware regulars acquired great honor in that action & had they been properly supported by the Militia would in all probability have made it a glorious day for America. The Character of the general has suffered by his rapid flight, and a court of enquiry is ordered on his conduct. The check, however which the enemy received from the regulars, who did not amount to more than 1000 in the action prevented them from improving the victory they had gained. And the spirited conduct of the militia immediately after the action a party of whom under Col. Marian rescued 150 of our regulars who had been taken prisoners on the 16th and captivated the escort that was conducting them to Charles town, and another party of about 200 under col. Williams on the 19 August engaged between four and five hundred British, killed 60 on the field and took 70 prisoners—this spirited conduct with some other successful enterprizes of less note has reanimated our people and disheartened the enemy, so that the consequences of the defeat are not so distressful as might have been apprehended. The armies in this quarter have hitherto had an inactive campaign. The arrival of the first division of the French Fleet and army gave us sanguine hopes of regaining New York. But the detention of the second division & the superiority of the British fleet have disappointed our hopes and expectations. The fleets in the West Indies seem to have spent the summer in Maneuvering. Upon the junction of the French and Spanish fleets they directed their course for Jamaica and had they improved the opportunity, it is the general opinion they would have succeeded & subdued that island without any difficulty, as the garrisons were chiefly withdrawn and there was no fleet to guard the harbour. But by some unaccountable delay they suffered a fleet under Walsingham to get there before them and a reinforcement of troops to be thrown into the Island, which as the hurrican season was coming on rendered the attempt impracticable and secured it at least for the present. Hereupon the combined fleet seperated, the Spanish steered for Havannah & the French put into
