196 October 12, 1780 Cape Francois. The count de Guishee after some stay left the cape, directed his course Notherly And coasted along our shores. This it is supposed Alarmed Rodney to that degree that anxious for the safety of Fleet & Army at New York he immediatly left the windward island and with a fleet of 14 or 15 sail of the line & some frigates steered for that place where he now is. The late providential discovery of Arnolds plot which appears to have been for a considerable time in agitation has induced a belief that Rodney had something farther in view than meerly counteracting the design of count de Guichen. In a Controversy and revolution such as this where former friendships & intimacies subsisted between the contending parties And where men of upright intentions took different sides & men of all characters were engaged in the contest, it would not have been strange or uncommon if conspiracies had been formed, but to the honor of the American army Arnold is the first and I believe the only American officer Who has during this war entered into a conspiracy to betray his country. You know the character of the Man, he was brave but avaricious, fond of parade and not very scrupulous abt the means of acquiring Money to defray the expences of it. He had married a young woman who had been distinguished by gen Howes Mischianze knights & her Father was not remarkable for attachment to the American cause. The expensive manner in which he lived in Philadelphia reduced his Finances and the accounts he exhibited against the public under went a scrutiny at the board of treasury not much to the advantage of his honor & honesty; which joined to his disappointments in the case of the Active & the result of the court martial instituted on the complaint of the council of Pensylvania soured his temper & rendered him a fit object for Clintons views. By letters found among his private papers it appears that Captain Andree one of Sr. H Clintons aids had commenced a correspondence with Mrs. Arnold in 1779 under pretence of supplying her with Millinary. Whither it was continued till it was ripened into the plot of betraying West Point into the hands of the enemy I will not undertake to say But that the scheme had been some time in agitation appears evidently from this, that while the enemy were making preparations for executing their purpose, And giving out that their design was against Virginia the same reports were circulated in Lord Cornwallis camp in South Carolina, and measures were taken to make us believe he meant to second the expedition by marching through North Carolina & forming a junction with Sr. Henry on his arrival in Virginia. At this time Rodney arrived at New York and it is conjectured the design was as soon as they had gained possession of West Point & cut off the communication between the western & southern states, to turn their whole force against the French fleet & Army at Rhode island. This it is true is but conjecture But it must be confessed the object was great and had Rodney succeeded he would
