October 14, 1780 201 to the North Carolina assembly from Hillsborough in September before his departure informing them that he had learned from Burke that delegates “can no longer obtain supplies of money from the continental treasury to bear their necessary expenses” and explaining that without an advance from the legislature “I cannot conceive it in my power to proceed on my journey.” See JCC, 18:898; and Sharpe to Burke, September 9? 1780, Legislative Papers, Nc-Ar. James Duane to Mary Duane My dearest Polly Philada. 14t October 1780 I last Evening met with Mr. Bush who is returning to Fishkill. I cannot neglect so fair an opportunity of droping you a Line tho’ I wrote you by Tuesday’s post and have nothing material to communicate but to assure you of my Health. Convinced of your Affectionate attention to me I believe it woud be a pleasure to you to hear from me every day. It must contribute to make our Seperation less Irksome when by frequent Communications we are assured of each others Welfare; and I earnestly wish that in future a Line may be forwarded once a week to the Post Office that I may have my Share of Satisfaction in a point essential to my Happiness. I enclose for your Amusement the new’s paper of the day. The Enemy are active to the Southward but it appears to me that by pushing their Advantages too far they may easily be ruined. They do not seem to improve upon the Misfortunes which by a similar Conduct they experienced in New Jersey, by aiming at too much they lost All, and were compelled to retreat under Cover of their Shiping with Disgrace. General Washington has taken effectual Care to secure the passes at the high Lands; so that with Gods blessing our own State will not be distressed by Sir Henry Clinton. I am only apprehensive of further Ravages on our Frontiers from the Indians. It is a delightful Season here and healthy. I forgot to mention that the Continental Sloop Saraghtoga has taken four valuable prizes two of them Jamaica Ships loaded with Sugar and Rum. They are not arrived and in some danger as there are two British frigates cruizing on this Coast. Present my dutiful & affectionate Regards to our Parents, Friends and Relations. Kiss and bless our dear children for me: Assure Miss Polly that I shall esteem her punctual Correspondence an infinite pleasure; & believe me to be always my dearest Polly, your most faithful & affecte Husband, Jas. Duane RC (NHi: Duane Papers).
