204 October 14,1780 go, I would agree to her remaining there, and depend on fortune for our meeting again. My situation here is truely distressing, I have no dependence, but on an empty treasury for my support, & when the little money I have left, is exhausted, I know not where I am to apply for more. Although the duties of my station demand of me to undergo every species of inconvenience & distress, yet I don’t think I can with any degree of propriety impose the same task on her. Could I see the least prospect of an alteration for the better, in our affairs, I could be content to wait with patience, but when on the contrary I daily see them grow worse, & the treasury cannot furnish as much money, as will support these few Delegates, who have no other resources, think it sufficient, for me to bear the mortification that must necessarily ensue alone. There is another reason which renders Mrs Mathews presence indispensibly necessary in Carolina (as it is impossible for me to go there.) I have not a friend remaining in that country, but what are prisoners of War, several are amongst those unfortunate persons sent to St. Augustine: so that my affairs are left entirely at the mercy of Negroes, & an insatiable enemy. As to my own particular property, that I entirely give up, unless we should ever recover the country by force of arms. But as Mrs. Mathews has an Estate there independent of mine, I could wish to put it in her power to save that for herself & family. I am led to expect she will be successful in her application on this head; as our State never confiscated a shilling of the property of the Partisans of the British government, but permitted them to dispose of & retire with it, therefore, however they may dispose of my private estate, they can on no principle whatever with hold from her, her seperate estate. She is now the only person who can with propriety make the claim & discriminate between the two estates. This sacrifice of domestic felicity, I think we owe to our posterity, that they might not be left totally destitute. P.M. Since writing the above, we have received letters from the southward. A copy of Genl. Gates’s, with it’s inclosures will be transmitted you by the President. But our Delegates have one from Governor Rutledge which speaks much plainer than Gates does. 1 He is likewise on the spot. I expect Hallifax in North Carolina will be Lord Cornwallis Head quarters in less than a month, unless some very vigorous and decisive measures are immediately taken to reinforce the Southern army—not with Militias but regular troops, that can be kept together, and depended on. The British army, in full force, is now between Gates, & the most fertile, best effected, & most populous part of No. Carolina, so that every resource of men & provisions, are now entirely cut off from thence. The people in every part of the country are flying before the enemy, & endeavouring
