October 16, 1780 205 to save what part of their property they can. Gates’s army is very weak, especially in cavalry, & the enemy are very strong. The last accounts we have of them, they were three miles this side of Charlotte in full march. I see nothing to prevent their pursuing any route they please, through any part of No. Carolina. I am extremely anxious to hear, who the person is, appointed to the Southern Command. I hope your Excy. will find it eligible to confer it on Genl. Greene, as the person that I am convinced will be highly acceptable to all the Southern States. An able commander was never more wanted, than is now in that quarter, & the sooner he gets there, the better. I will just take the liberty of asking yr. Excy. whether you think it would be possible to spare Majr. Lee’s corps to act with the southern army this Winter for after all the exertions they have made there in the course of six months, they have equiped no more than 82 horse. I should be obliged to you sir, to inform me of the result of your application to Sr. Hy. Clinton as soon as you conveniently can. I have received your Excys favor of the 4th inst. 2 but have not time to reply to it at present. I mean to do myself that pleasure by the first opportunity that offers, but hope you will not in the mean time think me negligent as it is my earnest wish at all times, to give you the most convincing proofs that, I am with the highest respect And the sincerest Affection, Yr. Excys. most Obedt. servt. Jno. Mathews P.S. Mrs. Mathews’s Christian name is Mary, the two Servants Simon, & Caty. The name of the Vessel The Genl. Smallwood— Thos. Finley Sailing Master. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Although he clearly dated this letter “Octr. 14,” Mathews undoubtedly began writing it the preceding day, for the Horatio Gates letter of October 5 mentioned here was read in Congress on October 13. See JCC, 18:920; the preceding entry, note 1; and PCC, item 154, 2:267-81. For the October 4 letter from Gov. John Rutledge, which was also laid before Congress on the 13th, see “Letters of John Rutledge,” South Carolina Historical and Genealogical Magazine, 17 (October 1916): 139-40. 2 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:113-16. John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee My Dear sir, Philadelphia Octo. 16th 1780 The Saratoga one of the Continental frigates, is just returned from a Cruize of about four Weeks and has taken four Jamaica men, with rum and sugar—one of them mounted 22 Guns, one 20, and another 18. She was parted from her prizes a few nights Ago, in a fog, on Soundings, two of them it is said are arrived in the river, and the
