October 16, 1780 209 Mr. Hopkinson—Observes that his complaint was of the injustice of having his account now rejected for want of Vouchers without having made the objections in any reasonable time, and in a case in which the nature of the business did not admit of a Voucher. Mr. Geddis—Then offered in testimony, a representation of the Facts respecting that account of Mr Hopkinson, the same have been handed at first into the Chamber of accounts then the Treasury from Congress as is usual, that it was passed in the Chamber of Accounts from the knowledge the Commissioners had of considerable part of the business being actually done and from the knowledge they had of Mr. Hopkinsons character—That it was returned without a recommitment and was not taken upon again because it was not referred (or recommitted)—until it was recommitted—That the Chamber of Accounts not being permitted to correspond with any persons it was not in their power to give Mr Hopkinson notice that his account was rejected for want of Vouchers. Upon this Mr. Gibson observed to Mr Geddis that he said he had passed Mr Hopkinsons account “because he knew Mr Hopkinson”—And being about to take a note accordingly—Mr Matlack desired Mr Gibson not to take a note of the kind which his observation implied his intention to do— as it was uncandid and disingenious and so far so as to render it indispensibly necessary to make the observation—to prevent its being done. An altercation ensued and the note was not then taken. Mr. Gibson observed, that if the account of Mr. Hopkinson was passed there were others who also had equal claims. Observation by Mr Hopkinson—That the reason assigned in the report rejecting his account was want of Vouchers, but now the reason assigned was, that the service had not been rendered. Mr. Gibson. Intended to have spoken to this complaint on another occasion, but if it is necessary to speak to this complaint now he is ready to do it. (The Committee left the time of defending against the charge to Mr Gibson & Mr. Forman.) Mr. Gibson, to answer to the letter containing the charge against himself & Mr. Forman. Is sorry to find they have offended the Committee—it was the effect of their feelings and not of any intention to offend. If any thing has happened which ought to have offended, he asks pardon—is not conscious of having done anything intentionally. They are the butt of complaints from the nature of their office—which they have endeavoured to fulfill their duty as honest industrious servts & hopes for Candour. Intends to trace the business thro—And therefore begs leave to shew what was the manner of doing business in the former board. The Board instituted in 76 as a kind of Council to superintend and direct others. The stile always Mandatory. Instances—April 30, 1776—[p. 219?]—respecting Col Flowers. The stile the present board
