210 October 16, 1780 has pursued and continued their rules—always referring to the practice of the former board as authority. The board acted as a Council to direct & superintend the whole business; for this reason the Chamber of Accots. instituted. The Council keeps a Journal of all applications in concise descriptions & referring to the Files where the Originals are preserved. And produced a book of Columns in which the business is arranged. Lesser matters are then finally issued. Those of more Consequence; such as relate to reports made to Congress are continued in their Journal. Rules of office for fixed hours was fixed from necessity and the time depended on the time of the Members of Congress. The increase of papers in the files rendered the adopting the rule indispensibly necessary—otherwise the board could not possibly have obtained leisure to consider of the business before them. 1780 21 March Do. Rules then adopted read. 237-239. (Note, After this time an hour in the afternoon was fixed for reviewing applications vizt. from 4 to 5.) These rules adopted upon Mature deliberation and from experience. And within 10 days, the business was within command— And since then they have been able to do the business of every application. The applications being in writing, were short and if explanation was wanting the party could be sent for. The explanations with the Chamber of Accounts in writing was particularly advantageous as the directions given could be full & explicit and they would remain to be referred to and would speak for themselves. Having thus given a view of the manner of doing business—I shall not take up the time of Committee with remarks—but proceed to consider the evidence against the board. Observes the Testimony of Mr. Caldwell, does not appear to prove anything in point; but if anything was intended to be drawn from it he should be glad to know it—And the inquiry being pointed to Mr. Hopkinson—he replied, that Mr Caldwell had frequently complained to him of the uncivil reply he had reced. and Delays he had met with from the board and he H. had asked his evidence on the subject. Mr Gibson—observes—That Mr. Caldwell had not provided his vouchers in time and an intervening resolve of Congress prevented his obtaining the bills which he requested—That the delay was in consequence of Mr. Caldwells neglect—and the final disappointment by an alteration in the measures of Congress. That there was always one or more of the Treasury attending in the hours appointed for reviewing applications, with very few exceptions and always the clerk is regularly there. As to Mr. Petits evidence—The Correspondence is before the Comt. Mr. Dunlaps complaint relates to the conduct of the former board
