October 17, 1780 211 the account bearing date Sept. 26th. 1779. (Note. But the account has not yet been settled.) Report of the Chamber of Accots. Septr. 21. 1779 on this account, 2 deducting near one half the charge. Directors of the Lottery. Delanys observation related to the former board. Errors—Typographical, in the form of the bills 3 was first discovered by the Treasury board, or perhaps, by the inspectors of the press, no proof of the Bills being given to the Treasury before the whole were struck off. That the error was perhaps advantageous, the same being communicated to the Commission at Paris. Mr. Hillegas’s complaint unjust, because he ought to pay regard to the orders of the board. But Qu. How far private orders could controul formal Solemn public orders. Mr. Hopkinson was always welcome from his manners &c. Respecting incorrect orders Acknowledged an error—Bills in error not in the form; but in the number of bills—And an error which may readily be pardoned, “considering the Difficulty of Calculations. ” The Clerk is [ . . . ] able for the error of [ .... ] Adjourned to Wednesday 10 oclock. 4 MS (DNA: PCC, item 62). In the hand of Timothy Matlack. A continuation of the committee minutes of October 12, 1780. 1 Hopkinson’s difficulties with the board over the settlement of his accounts concerning “fancy work” he performed designing “devices for monies, seals, Flags &c’ ’ has been discussed at length in George E. Hastings, The Life and Works of Francis Hopkinson (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1926), pp. 240-54. 2 This report is in PCC, item 62, fols. 448. 3 Evidence concerning the erroneous bills of exchange at issue in this dispute is filed with the committee’s papers at ibid., fols. 389-91, 425-47. 4 For the continuation of these proceedings, see the committee’s minutes, October 21, 1780. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Phil. Oct 17, 1780 Yesterday I had the pleasure of receiving your Letter of the 27 of Septr. by the hand of my valueable Friend Mr Arthur Lee. As it was three weeks old I had a Right to expect another by the Post, but am disappointed. I have ever esteemd Mr Lee one of the most virtuous, active & able American Patriots. This opinion, you know, I have long entertaind of him, and therefore you justly conclude, that he meets with the most cordial Reception from me. You was mistaken when you supposd that I had heard who were chosen into the highest Places under our new Constitution. We are
