212 October 17, 1780 not so well informd. I had Reason to believe that Mr Hancock would be the Governor. I am disposd to think, that my Fellow Citizens had upright Views in giving him their Suffrages. Many Circumstances have combind to make this Election appear to be politically necessary; and if the People, who are now blessd with so great a Privilege, will exercise that Watchfulness over Men whom they exalt to Places of Power, which their Duty & Interest should lead them to do, I flatter myself that his will prove a happy Choice. You may wonder at my saying so; but I think I am not misguided in my Judgment in this Instance. If they have now chosen a wise & virtuous governor, a few only will be disappointed; if otherwise, Many will see their Error, and will be indued to greater Vigilance for the future. I am far from being an Enemy to that Gentleman, tho’ he has been prevaild upon to mark me as such. I have so much Friendship for him, as to wish with all my Heart, that in the most critical Circumstances, he may distinguish between his real Friends & his flattering Enemies. Or, rather between the real Friends of the Country & those who will be ready to offer the Incense of Flattery to him who is the first Man in it. This will require an accurate Knowledge [of] Men. I therefore again wish that he may have the most able faithful Councellors to assist him in the Administration of Affairs. Can I say more? If, with the best Advice he is able to hold the Reins of Government with Dignity, I wish him a Continuance of the Honor. If he renders our Country secure in a flourishing Condition, I will never be so partial & unjust as to withhold my Tribute of Applause. Adieu my dear, SA RC (NN: Adams Papers). Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Dear Sir, Philadelphia Octr. 17th. 1780. I had the honour to receive your Excellencys favour of the 4th Instant, by yesterdays Post, with the inclosed Newspaper containing the Act of the Hone, the General Assembly for funding the Money to be emited persuant to the Act of Congress of the 18th of March. 1 The Act of the General Assembly is refered to the Board of Treasury. 2 As soon as the Money is struck I shall endeavor to forward it to the State without loss of time. How soon that business will be accomplished I am not able to ascertain, but fear it will be some time. You may depend on my best endeavors to obtain a grant of money for the State, and I wish I could say that I expected success in the business, But when I consider the large sums due to the States of
