October 17, 1780 213 New York and New Jersey and the late application made by them to Congress for relief, and that they received for Answer that it was inadmisable even to give them a draught on the Loan office for a part of the four tenths in their own states, I think I am not warranted to give you any encouragement that the request will be granted in our present distressed situation. At the same time I could wish to have an exact account of the Moneys furnished by the State to the D.Q.M. General as I am confident no grant can be obtained on general principals. Necessity obliges me to hint to your Excellency that my circumstances for want of Cash is not altered for the better, since I mentioned that subject before, I do not complain but submit my case to your own feelings and rely on the Justice of my Constituents for relief. Our affairs to the south wear at present a gloomy aspect. The Enemy have by the last official accounts Marched in force into North Carolina and taken Post at Sharlotte and I fear (by the complection of affairs) soon to hear they have nearly possesed themselves of that state. General Gates hath lost all confidence with the people in that Quarter and in a particular manner with General Smallwood who is the next in command, General Washington hath not informed Congress of the officer ordered to take the Command of the southern Army. I wish it soon to take place for at present you may depend all is in disorder and the Utmost confusion. I have the honour to be with every Sentiment of Esteem & respect your Excellencys most obedient Humble Servant, Ezek Cornell P.S. I received a large packit from Virginia Inclosed to your Excellency containing sundry Acts passed in that state, which I do my self the Honour to forward by this days Post. I have also Inclosed two News papers containing a particular detail of Majr. Andres conduct and the Infamous Arnolds Address to which is aded another prepared for the press by Mr. Secretary Thomson. 3 Major Andres Tryall is now in the Press as soon as Published I will do myself the Honour to inclose one to your Excellency, Yours E.C. RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 See Cornell to William Greene, August 15, 1780, note 2. 2 JCC, 18:932. 3 See Charles Thomson’s Parody upon Benedict Arnold’s Address, this date.
