218 October 17, 1780 and as they have not yet been heard of it is feared they have fallen back into the possession of the Enemy. Baron Stuben just come to town brings a report that an embarkation left N. York on Thursday, but no confirmation has yet arrived from Gl. Washington or any other official source. Adieu, James Madison Junr. [P.5. ] By a letter just reed, from the Continental Agt. at Statia by the Commercial Committee, the Capture of the British fleet by the Spaniards is brought pretty nearly to certainty. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:140-41. John Mathews to George Washington My Dear sir Philadelphia Octr. 17th. 1780 At the time I wrote to you respecting that part of the system for the army, that had been agreed on by Congress, I had despaired of it’s being submitted to your opinion. 1 I had moved for it, but my proposition was rejected, on a principle, that the whole should go together. We have received your Excys. sentiments on this very important subject, such, as I evidently foresaw would be the result of your serious consideration. 2 Your observations are incontrovertible, & unless Congress are so bigoted to the Idol they have set up, & are determined to reject every principle that can have the least tendency to invalidate the foundation on which it is erected, they must ultimately adopt the plan you propose. No other, I am convinced, can ever answer our purposes. But even in this case a most tremendous inconvenience arises—for here is the month of October better than half spent, & probably, before Congress come to a final determination, November will be arrived, & then there remains only two months for prosecuting this great work. The time is certainly too short for it’s completion. I consequently dread the arrival of the first day of January. Had Congress put this business in the train, that was proposed early in Septr. so much precious time would have been saved, as, in all probability would have given success to the plan. However, we must now use our best endeavours to put things on as good a footing as the nature of the case will admit of. Yr. Excys letter of the 11th inst. is committed to the same committee who brought in the former report, together with that report, but nothing is, as yet, done in it. My plan respecting the annual recruits was only meant to render the System as useful as possible, for if an alternative must be admitted into it we should endeavour to derive every possible advantage from it. I therefore thought it best, to have the power to detain the men,
