October 18, 1780 223 of August last, I have the Pleasure to present you with the Thanks of Congress expressed in the Copy of their Act enclosed of the 14 Instant to yourself in particular and the brave Officers & Troops who distinguished themselves by their Bravery & Valour on that Occasion. 2 I have the Honor to be, with Esteem & respect, &c &c &c, S.H. 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). Addressed: “To Major General Smallwood. The like verbatim to Brigadier Genl Gist.” 1 The RC of this letter sent to Mordecai Gist is dated October 16. Stewart Signers of the Declaration Collection, NjGbS. 2 See JCC, 18:924. 3 This day Huntington also wrote a brief letter to Quartermaster General Timothy Pickering, pursuant to a resolve of October 16, authorizing him “to furnish Col. [Jean-Baptiste] Ternant with two good Horses,” in compensation for “two good riding horses [impressed from him] during the siege of Charlestown, by order of the State of South Carolina.” See PCC, item 15, fol. 136; and JCC, 18:932-33. Willie Jones to Abner Nash Dr sir Octr. 18, 1780. 1 I wrote to you of the 1st Octr. & 10th to which I refer. The Resolution of Congress directing Genl. Washington to appoint an Officer to take the Command of the Southern Army, instead of Genl. Gates, was immediately sent to Head Quarters; but the General has not informed Congress of his proceedings thereupon, nor can I advise you who will be appointed to that Command. Genl. Gates sent us Dispatches three or four days ago, advising that Ld Cornwallis had penetrated our State as far as Charlotte, these Dispatches were immediately forwarded to the Commander in Chief, and I have some small hopes that he will be thereby induced to detach some troops to the Southward, perhaps Lee’s Corps, for every Idea of acting to the Northward is now laid aside. However, I am not sanguine in this Expectation. We have Reports every day of Reinforcements going from N. York either to No. Carolina or Virginia; but nothing which can be depended on. I hope both those States will consider it as a thing certain, that Reinforcements will be sent from N. York, in the course of the ensuing Winter. The Newspaper will inform you of the Capture of the British Et. & Wt. India fleet outward bound. A Letter to the Commercial Committe gives a more authentick accot. as thus, the British fleet consisting of 58 Sail, fell in with the combined Fleet in the Night, the Ramilies and Thetis escaped to Madeira, where the former remained eight days, and only four Merchantmen came in, the Southampton Frigate escaped and brought the first Intelligence to
