224 October 18,1780 St. Kitts, the Ramilies is since arrived at Jamaica, the Thetis was dispatched to give Adml. Geary Intelligence of the Combined Fleet. From these Circumstances it is conjectured that about 50 of the British Ships were captured. I hope to leave this place in three Weeks, but this depends on Remittances from Carolina—for I have long been out of cash. I am with the greatest truth, Dr. Sir, Your most obed & Humble Servt. Willie Jones P.S. It is said that Genl. Washington, upon Arnolds appointment to the Command at West point, gave him the Names of several Gentlemen of the first Rank in N. York, (thro’ whom he obtained Intelligence of Sir Henry Clintons Motions) together with the plan of Correspondence; all which the execrable Villain Arnold disclosed on his Arrival at N. York, and the aforesaid Gentlemen were consequently apprehend & confined in Irons; and, if this be the Case, will probably lose their Lives. W. Jones RC (NcU: Revolutionary War Papers). •Jones originally dated this letter “Octr. 17,” but then wrote over the “7,” apparently after he added the postscript. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia October 19. 1780 I have been honored with your several Letters viz, the 11, 13, & three of the 15 Instant, with the Papers to which they refer. 1 Enclosed your Excellency will herewith receive the Copy of an Act of Congress of this Day, authorizing you to carry into Execution the Proposals enclosed in your Letter of the 15 Instant or any other you may judge proper to make respecting the Commissaries of Prisoners to reside with the American & British Armies respectively. 2 I have also enclosed a Number of the printed Acts of Congress containing a Plan for conducting the Hospital Department, also an Act of Congress of the 14 Instant directing a Monument to be erected to the Memory of the late Major Genl the Baron de Kalb, and giving the Thanks of Congress to Generals Smallwood & Gist &c, & the Troops who distinguished themselves by their Valour in the Action near Cambden on the 16 of August last. With the highest respect, I have the Honor to be, your Excellency’s most obedient humble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 These letters are in PCC, item 152, 9:247-76, 293-300; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:157-67, 175, 189-92. The former is a remarkable 18-page
