226 October 21, 1780 2500 Foot and thirty or forty Horse,” thought destined to the “Southward.” See JCC, 18:956; PCC, item 152, 9:319; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:203. Huntington also sent this intelligence from Washington under cover of a brief letter to Maryland governor Thomas Sim Lee this day. PGC, item 15, fol. 140. John Sullivan’s Memorial To the Honorable the Continental Congress: Humbly Shews John Sullivan Philadelphia October 21 1780 That when he had the Honor of Commanding the Army at Rhode Island his Army was for a Long time Destitute of Provisions & that the Commissaries after repeated applications Informed him that it was out of their power to Supply the Troops; where upon he applied to Messrs Clark & Nightingale for Supplies who Employed one Amasa Sessions Esqr by whose Instrumentality the Troops were kept from Perishing. That the Commissaries who had refused to furnish Provisions Commenced a prosecution against Said Sessions for purchasing the Same & after a hearing thereon he was Acquitted of the Charge 2 but in his Defence against a Suit Commenced without Color 3 & Lengthened out by Every malicious Stratagem that Could be Devised, he Expended Large Sums of money which have been repaid him by Said Clark & Nightingale for which & for the provisions furnished they have forwarded the Accounts Inclosed requesting payment from your memorialist. He Therefore prays Congress to order the Accounts to be Liquidated & paid & your memoralist Shall pray &c, J no Sullivan MS (DNA: PCC, item 41). In the hand of John Sullivan. 1 Sullivan presented this memorial to Congress on October 21, when it was read and referred to the Board of Treasury. JCC, 18:958. 2 Amasa Sessions also filed a countersuit over these charges at about this time, for which see Sullivan, Letters (Hammond), 3:342-43. 3 That is, without right or cause. Treasury Inquiry Committee Minutes Saturday October 21st. 1780. Present Honble Mr McKean, Mr. Walker. The error of the order of the 1st of June was acknowledged by Mr Gibson & Mr Forman exhibited an Amendment of the number of bills ordered to Maryland by which he conceives the order will be found incorrect only in a single instance. Mr. Gibson—Produced Mr. Hopkinsons account to shew that the
