234 October 22, 1780 Numbers killed & taken falls considerable short of the Number they are Stated at, and yet, the Numr. of Arms said to be taken exceeds their Numr. of Troops—in the first [ . . . ] part might have escaped and in the latter they might be carrying spare Arms with them. These matters must be left to be cleared up when we Obtain more particulars relative to the affair. The killed, prisoners, and Numr. of Arms I suppose Major Tate gives by conjecture only, and not from any Actual Acct, taken, which when ascertained may differ considerably. The copies I did not take with a view to sending from me or they would not have appeared quite so rough. With this good News, we also reed, this day disagreable intelligence from the Northward. 2 Butler & Brandt with a Number of British & Tories had made an incursion from Canada, Landed at the head of South bay, taken Fort Ann and Fort George with their small Garrisons: The same or another party from the Westward had invested Fort Schuyler but had not ventured upon an Attack—some Continentals with the Militia were on their March to relieve the Fort. The Enemy had burn’d many houses, barracks of grain & hay &c in their rout. This expedition Governor Clinton thinks was intended as a Cooperation with the British up the North River in Case Arnolds Treachery had succeeded, which being defeated he thinks they will make but a short stay. Two of the Saratogas Prizes it is said have arrived safe in the River and are coming up. Of the other no Certain intelligence hath been reed, tho’ some think she is got into Sinepuxant, as such a like Vessel was lately seen, as Supposed standing in there. Congress lately agreed upon a Reduction of the Continental Regiments granting to all Reduced Officers one Years pay—since which they have engaged half pay for life to all such. The Natural Consequence you may be sure was to grant the half pay for life to all that continued in the service. This Proceeding extraordinary as it is met with no Opposition but from the four New England States & New Jersey, the Opposition from one of the Eastern States was but feeble. 3 It gives me inexpressible pain to see Congress Sporting away the publick money and increasing our debt at the very time we are in a Perfect State of bankruptcy. Were our Finances in ever so good a state, the Measure is inconsistant with our ideas of liberty and Maxims of Government to pension for life such a Number Among us; it is also unjust with regard to those who were not long since dismissed on one Years depreciated pay without the depreciation made up to them for the time of their service, and many others through Necessity, want of employ, or ill treatment have lately left the Army without any future allowance or depreciation of money for past Services granted to them. Congress appears to be tumbling down fast and will I believe soone retain no more than a Name and that I fear not a good one. Some late appointments in the Medical
