250 October 24, 1780 extra regiment to march southward, see Md. Archives, 43:335. When the delegates submitted Lee’s letter on October 25, Congress immediately ordered the funds disbursed. See JCC, 18:972. 4 Richard Bennett Lloyd of Kent County, Md., had received permission to travel to New York City to retrieve personal property, including household furniture, belonging to his second wife, Elizabeth. He may have been accompanied by his Kent County neighbor, John Scott. See Md. Archives, 43:342; and Biog. Diet, of Md. Legis., 2:542-43, 718-19. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry Dr Sir, Oct 24. 1780 Your Favors of the 5th & 10th reached me yesterday. The chief Subject roused Contempt & Indignation; but that serious Company was interrupted by Risibility who pleaded your Mode of Delineation as a forcible Summons; it became thus impossible to prevent jocular Opinions from being mixed with very grave Verdicts. I have no Clue to the “Reasons assigned’’ in my own Case. If they do not appear in writing officially I should be glad to know them that I may form a proper Judgment of the Event. It was a Thing really “unexpected”; but I shall find myself under the Necessity of showing you in some other Letter a State of Facts here that will throw your 2/8 or 9/ at 40 for 1 into a proper Point of View. 1 I am not well and must therefore oeconomize in the epistolary Way. Excuse me for this Post to our Friend the Doctor 2 whose kind Letter of the 9th I have received. Permit me also to refer you to the within Scrawl 3 which was intended for another not a Member of Congress, and therefore, upon second Thought, turned over to you. There has been great Success at the Southward, but at the Northward there is a drawback. The Green Mountaineers are able to drub the Enemy but I fear they will not till after N. Yk. has smarted. Genl. Greene is to go to the Command in the Carolinas. Col. Wigglesworth will soon be on his way with all your “Profits.” I shall not charge him to keep it a dead Secret that you are not quite ruined by the War. My Colleagues live at Mrs. Millars with Palfrey but that Lady has consulted Mrs. Sword or Soward and consequently has raised her Price to the concerted one which Lodge Alley and Mifflin’s Corner had demanded, 7 at 75 pr. Week soon I fear to be 78. Mrs. M also got in the same Way the secundary Lye that the Mass. Delegates were moving only on a Pence Account. Yr. Friend and h Svt. J L [P. 5. ] We have a Confirmation from Cadiz of the Spanish Success mentioned in the Gazettes and further that 5 Ships were taken with Provisions going into Gibralter and a Frigate driven on Shoar. 4
