October 24, 1780 251 RC (NN: Gerry-Townsend Papers). 1 See Lovell to Gerry, October 3, 1780. 2 That is, Samuel Holten. 3 For Lovell’s enclosure, a letter of this date composed for William Gordon, see the following entry. 4 This “Confirmation” arrived in a letter from Richard Harrison of August 17 that was read in Congress this day. JCC, 18:968. James Lovell to William Gordon Dear Sir Octr 24th. 1780 Your Favor of the 11th reached me yesterday but the inclosed was not open. I have forwarded it. I catched some of your “Grief’ consequent upon your “little Hope.” Arnold’s Baseness of Soul was not unknown to many as Mr. Gerry can assure you from hearing Treasury Examinations. 2 But it is material to prove this in yr. Letters to Europe by authentic Anecdotes; as, really, his Fame was there great & unsullied. I shall deliver your conditional promise to Doctr. Lee. His adversarial Demon is not yet asleep. Prudence commands some Decision here that may accord with his & our own Honor but not implying a judicial Scrutiny into past Accusations & Defences. 3 4/5 of the Allegations of his Enemies were of a Kind not to be decided at all. A & B say he is not fit to be employed among a “gallant People.” C [&] D assert the Contrary. A B say that he is mean. C D that he is only a Republican CEconomist. A B say that he corresponded with Berkenhout. The Rest of the Alphabet may prove the Negative if they can. He is an injured man, but “our public Distresses ought to be attended to before the Concerns of any Individual”—very plausible! But in this Case tis a public Concern; And in my humble opinion strong Opposition to a simple Committment of a Letter from an Officer lately in an exalted Station abroad shows more of party than patriotic Spirit. I hope however that we may finish, at present, in some Way similar to what was done in Mr. Izard’s Case a few weeks ago. Two Yeas and Nays & 5/8 of a Day’s Session were the consequences of my motion 4 for Commitmt. of Doctr. L’s Letter for the Purpose of avowing national Principles for his Recal and not leaving Room for the Supposition of any Judicial Proceedure of ex- parte Opportunities; and for the further Purpose of directing him to communicate in writing whatever he might think essential to the public Good immediatley, or the Right Settlement hereafter of Business now in Transaction abroad. Jemmy 5 was the primum, secundum & ultimum mobile of the Opposition tho’ calling God to Witness that he had no personal Prejudice.
