252 October 24, 1780 RC (NN: Gerry-Townsend Papers). In Lovell’s hand, though not signed, and endorsed by him: “Doctr. G Jamaica Plain.” 1 Although he composed this letter for Gordon, Lovell had second thoughts about disclosing its contents to one who was “not a member of Congress” and therefore sent it to Elbridge Gerry, for which see the preceding entry. Presumably Gerry could personally relate the substance of it to Gordon, thereby avoiding the indiscretion of revealing specific details of congressional proceedings, a fine distinction Lovell often condemned when judging others. Since the document remains with a collection of Gerry papers, it seems clear that it was not delivered to Gordon. 2 For Gerry’s role in the congressional review of Benedict Arnold’s accounts, see Gerry to Samuel Huntington, May 18, 1780. 3 See Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene, this date, note 6. 4 For the voting on Lovell’s motion to commit Arthur Lee’s October 17 letter to committee, see JCC, 18:951-54. 5 That is, James Duane. Ibid. James Madison to Joseph Jones Dear Sir Philada. Octr. [24,] 1780 1 Your favor of the 9th which ought to have come on Monday last did not arrive till Thursday. That of the 17th came yesterday according to the expectation. 2 I wish it was in my power to enable you to satisfy the uneasiness of people with respect to the disappointment in foreign succour. 3 I am sensible of the advantage which our secret enemies take of it. I am persuaded also that those who ought to be acquainted with the cause [of] it are sensible of it; and as they give no intimations on the subject it is to be inferred they are unable to give any that would prevent the mischief. It is so delicate a subject, that with so little probability of succeeding, it would perhaps be hardly prudent to suggest it. As soon as any solution comes out you shall be furnished with it. I have informed Pleasants that you would write to him from Richmond, and on application to Pemberton was promised a written sketch of his terms which I have not yet received. If it comes before this is seeded I shall enclose it. 4 We continue to receive periodical alarms from the Commissary’s & Quarter Master’s departments. The season is now arrived when provision ought to be made for a season that will not admit of transportation, and when the monthly supplies must be subject to infinite disappointments even if the States were to do their duty. But instead of Magazines being laid in our army is living from hand to mouth, with a prospect of being soon in a condition still worse. How a total dissolution of it can be prevented in the course of the winter is for any resources now in prospect utterly inexplicable, unless the States unanimously make a vigorous & speedy effort to form
