October 27, 1780 279 fairly I think you will find no cause to blame me for neglecting you. The Matters before Congress are at this time so weighty—so numerous, so important, so interesting—and most of them so essential to be kept secret untill they are prepared to be known that you will readily excuse my not entering on the subject—which were I at liberty freely to write on would take almost a Quire of Paper to give you any Satisfactory Idea of. We have had a pretty full confirmation of the Combined fleets of Fr & Spain having taken almost the whole of a fleet of Eng. E & W Indiamen (5 of the former) outward Bound to the amount of about 50 part of which in a letter from a Gentn. at Cadiz to the Pr. of Congress are said to be safe arrived at that Port and the others daily expected. Don Barcelo before Gibraltar has also taken five or Six Provision Ships sent with Supplies to that place by the English—This with the News of our southern success has operated on us like a Cordial. Give my best affections and love to Fanny & the Boys & Girls. I hope by this time they are all well. I have written to the Boys & have sent them presents. Dick Meade who carries this will tell you all the news &c. &c. God Bless you. Theok. Bland N.B. There were one thousand Highland Soldiers taken in the Captured fleet. RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 “Sapponi” may have been a Tucker plantation unit on the Sapony River in Prince George Co., Virginia. “Matoax” was Tucker’s plantation in nearby Chesterfield Co. See Bland to Tucker, September 17, 1780, note 2. 2 That is, in his medical, in contrast to his musical (“Cantator”) capacity. Apollo’s functions were “especially music, archery, prophecy, medicine, and the care of flocks and herds.” The Oxford Classical Dictionary, ed. M. Cary et al. (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1949), p. 68. 3 That is, whim or caprice. Nathaniel Peabody to Nathanael Greene Dear General Morristown Octor. 27. 1780 I take the liberty to inclose to your care a Letter from Dr. Shippen to Mrs. R. H. Lee, as also one from your Humble Servant to Mr Lee which I have put under a flying seal, 1 and which you will please to Close before it is deliverd. I most Sincerely Congratulate you on the dawn of success both Southward & Northward the particulars of the latter you will have in the fish kill paper which Martin has took with him. The Tories have took the Mail going east between fish kill & Danbury and Carried to N. York. 2 The Marques with his light Infantry undertook an Expedetion to Staten Island this morning but, as I am inform’d to his Great
