280 October 27, 1780 Chagrean, when he arrived at the place of embarkation instead thirteen boats which were ordered to that place he found but five, which were totally inadequate to warrant the undertaking, and after waiting, till too late, without being Supplied, he was under the disagreable Necessity of returning with the Mortification of being disappointed in a Capital object. 3 This has raised a Clamour against him whose right it is to reign uncontrouled, in kingdom of Transportation!! 4 But hold! I am this moment inform’d that the Marques waited Some hours before the five boats arrived. I am exceedingly pain’d for this unhappy event—fear the Consequences will be unfavourable for the officer who neglected his Duty, which may possibly blow up the Coals of dissatisfaction between the Army, and those who ought to Support it. I am happy to find that the loss of Charlestown So. Carolina has not prevented our Bills of Exchange from being accepted in Spain. His Excellency is Exceedingly pleased with the News from the Southward, says if rightly improve’d it may be a lucky opening to greater & more Sucessful events. I reced. the Philada paper of the 24th on the evening of the 25th which I forwarded to H. Quarters so that it arrived by Sunrise the 26th. Arnold has publish’d a flaming proclamation of a Tennor that Corresponds with the rest of his Conduct. 5 , The Enemy in New york are all in motion, And Not a little Alarm’d at Some thing. It is reported here that the french fleet have left R. Island. With Great esteem, I have the Honr. to be, Sir, Dear Genl. Your most obedt. And very Humbe Servt., Nathl Peabody RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). 1 See the following entry. 2 See Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene, October 10, 1780, document note. 3 For the cancellation of General Lafayette’s planned attack on Staten Island, see Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 3:206-11. ♦ That is, Timothy Pickering, Greene’s successor as quartermaster general. 5 Probably Arnold’s October 20 broadside proclamation To the officers and soldiers of the Continental army who have the real interest of their country at heart, and who are determined to be no longer the tools and dupes of Congress, or of France. ... I rejoice in the opportunity I have of inviting you to join his majesty’s armys (New York: James Rivington, 1780). See Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 16,789; and Davies, Documents of the American Revolution, 16:422. Arnold, who had been granted a brigadier’s commission by the British, was in the process of forming the American Legion in the Provincial Service of the British army. Nathaniel Peabody to Richard Henry Lee Sir, Morris Town, State of New Jersey Octr 27. 1780 I have been duly honored by your agreable favour of the 24th
