October 27, 1780 281 Ultimo, Inclosing a letter to the director general, 1 which has been delivered. Since the 22d November, the date of a letter you mention to have received, I have wrote two other letters, 2 containing such matters as I should be unwilling to have fallen into the possession of some persons, whose heads and hearts, are unworthy of my confidence, and who I fear have filch’d those letters under way, as you make no mention of having received them. It appears to me, Sir, your apprehensions are well founded, when you observe, “I fear the season is much too far advanced for any decisive operations to be attempted against New York, this Campaign” &c., and that your queries claim the highest attention when you farther add, ‘‘may not the winter be most profitably employed in retaking Charles-Town, and recovering the two southern States, from our enemies &c”. The reasons you mention in favour of the attempt, are weighty, and the successes, which have lately attended our Arms in that quarter render the operations you have proposed, both for the winter & spring, less hazardous. The spirited exertions of your state in raising three Thousand recruits for the Continental Army, and One thousand good western Militia, at so critical a period, evinces a redoubled attachment to our cause, and add much to the prospect of success in our operations in that vicinity. I cannot quit the subject, without congratulating you, my dear Sir, on the appointment of Major General Greene, to take the command of the southern Army. That gentlemans great abilities in the field, his extensive knowledge of the various departments in the Army, gives him the advantage of almost every other General Officer in America, in immediately reducing to order and System an Army and affairs, which at present are almost ‘‘without form and void”. But alass of what avail will be the exertion of the greatest Generals, unless fully aided with men, money, and the other necessary supplies? In the present deranged situation of our public affairs, can this aid be furnished? Our Treasury is empty—Our Military and ordnance stores in that quarter are much exhausted—and I fear, the resources of that Country under its present embarrassments will prove incompetent for those other supplies. Your Zeal and exertion in the cause of our distressed Country on every former occasion forbids my mentioning a single argument to induce your utmost efforts in the present alarming conjuncture. General Greene entertains a high opinion of your influence and abilities, and wishes for your assistance, in support of such measures as he may find necessary to adopt for recovering the southern states, or rather what is more probable, to prevent the Enemy, from making further progress, and as the General is a gentleman in whom you may place the most unreserved confidence, not only as an Officer,
