October 30, 1780 287 If I at any time send you a surplus Journal you can deliver it to Mr. Avery. I now forward July & Sepr. I suspect you will find one of the former in the Secretary’s Office with your name. It is not however a Matter of Importance equal to the Search. Genl. Green & Baron Steuben are going to the Southward. 1 The Enemy have landed in Virginia and I presume mean to take Post at Portsmouth according to what was long ago mentioned in Campbel’s Letter which has been printed but the Kentucks’-mad Folks have not been alarmed by that Notification. Govr. Jefferson writes with a proper Spirit and Nelson acts with the same But the latter is not able to prevent the Invaders from securing such Passes as suit their Views. I fear we call for too many men to have a proper Army. I think myself Soldier enough to do the Business of this Continent with 25000 well armed, well cloathed and well fed Effectives, much better than with double the Number deficient in those three points. I hope Mass, will rival all the other States in Vigor for the next Campaign. I am persuaded you do not comprehend how much depends upon her. You did not carry home contemptible Ideas enough of the Negro States, or of this great Braggadocio. My Eyes are better than when I last wrote but alas I have lost my Spectacles and have had 3 laborious writing Days without them to which were added Evenings and Nights, therefore now to Bed. Affectionately Yours, James Lovell RC (NjMoHP: Lloyd W. Smith Collection). 1 For the appointment of Generals Greene and Steuben to southern commands, see Samuel Huntington to Nathanael Greene, October 31, 1780. John Mathews to George Washington My Dear sir Philadelphia Octr. 30th. 1780 I Received your Excellencys favor of the inst 1 a few days ago by Genl. Greene. And am extremely obliged to you for your kind care, & attention respecting my application for Mrs. Mathews’s going to Carolina. Permit me at the same time to assure you sir of her most grateful acknowledgemt. for your benevolent intentions towards her. I was surprized the Board of War had not wrote to you about the flag, however the matter seems now to be pretty well fixed. I am made happy by Congress having at last agreed on the plan for the army, on such a footing as is likely to produce the desired effect. Had they but done this at first, there would have been little doubt of it’s success, but there is yet room to hope for important benefits from it, tho’ late. By a letter this day received from the Governor of Virginia, we
