292 October 31, 1780 The Enemy have been lately reinforced at new york with about 800 Germans, and about 1200 British Troops. This may enable them to Send Some more men to the southward, many they Cant Spare from New York, and their other posts. Last night an Express Arrived from the Southward Confirming the Account we before had of the Enemys landing at Portsmouth and advising that Cornwallis had left Charlotte, and was making a rapid retreat to Camden. 1 Our people were hanging on his rear, And it is thought would be very troublesome to him. I have the honor to be with the highest Esteem and regard, Dear sir your Excellencys most hble Servt, John Hanson Some Cash would be very Acceptable. General Green is now in Town on his way to take the Command of the Southern Army. He will leave this place in a day or two. Baron Stuben is also to Join the Southern Army As is Major Lees Corps of Light horse. RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 See John Hanson to Charles Carroll of Carrollton, October 30, 1780, note 3. This intelligence was also reported in the following brief note of this date by James Lovell to [Elbridge Gerry?]. “Cornwallis is retreating in some Confusion as appears by his leaving the Camp Kettles on the Fire and 5 Loaded Waggons 5 miles on his Road from Camden. We have this in Letters from Gen. Gates. Tuesday, 31 Octr.” Gerry-Townsend Papers, NN. Samuel Huntington to Certain States Sir, Philada October 31. 1780 By the Act of Congress of the 30 Instant herewith enclosed, your Excellency will observe, that Major General Greene is appointed to take the Command in the southern Department; and you will receive the necessary Information of the Powers & Instructions given to him by Congress; and that it earnestly recommended to the Legislatures & Executives of the several States from the Delaware State to Georgia inclusive to afford him all necessary Aid & Assistance. 1 I have the Honor to be &c &c &c, S.H. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). Addressed: “To the Supreme Executive Powers from Delaware to Georgia inclusive.” i See JCC, 18:994-96. 2 To his letter to Virginia governor Thomas Jefferson, Huntington added a postscript acknowledging the receipt of letters from Jefferson of October 10, 15, 22, and 25. See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:85.
