October 31, 1780 293 Samuel Huntington to Horatio Gates Sir, Philadelphia October 31. 1780 You will receive herewith enclosed, an Act of Congress of the 30 Instant, by which you will be informed that they have approved of the Appointment of Major Genl. Greene to the Command of the Southern Army, and of the Powers & Instructions they have given him during the Time he shall retain that Command. Your Letters of the 16 & 18 Instant 1 with the Despatches enclosed have been received, as also Copies of several of your Despatches thro’ Governor Jefferson, the Defeat of the Col. Ferguson with his Party, and the Retreat of Ld. Cornwallis with the other agreeable Intelligence you have communicated are important Events, which I hope may be attended with still greater Success. I am, Sir, with much Esteem & Respect, your most obedient & most humble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (NHi: Gates Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Actually a single letter of October 16, with a postscript of the 18th. SeeJCC, 18:997; and PCC, item 154, 2:299-314. Samuel Huntington to Nathanael Greene Sir, Philadelphia October 31. 1780 You will receive herewith enclosed the Copy of an Act of Congress of the 30 Instant, by which you will be informed that your Appointment to the Command of the southern Army meets with their Approbation; and that Major General the Baron de Steuben is directed to repair to that Department under your Command. 1 That the Army for that Department will consist of all the regular Regiments & Corps raised or to be raised from the States of Delaware to Georgia inclusive until the farther Orders of Congress or the Commander in Chief. That all the Powers given to Genl. Gates while in that Command are now vested in you, and that the Acts of Congress during that Period be considered as Instructions to you in that Department. You Sir are also authorized to organize & employ the Army under your Command in the Manner you shall judge most proper, subject to the Controul of the Commander in Chief; and it is earnestly recommended to the Legislatures and Executives respectively in that Department to afford you every necessary Assistance & Support, and you are authorized to call for the same. The Heads of the several Staff Departments are directed to furnish
