298 Novembers, 1780 Treasure will remain in Status quo another Season. I can give you Amusement for Amusement whenever we meet to make a regular Exchange of Anecdotes. Matters in the southern Department wear a more pleasing Countenance than some time ago. Cornwallis retreats rapidly and I think will get his wings cropped, before he reaches Camden. Yours as ever, J L 4 [P.S.] I send a Journal for Sep. RC (NhHi: Peabody Papers). 1 Not found. 2 Lovell was probably working on Cornwallis’ October 7 cipher letters to James Wemyss and Nisbet Balfour, which are in PCC, item 51, 1:527-35. 3 That is, Lovell’s son, James. 4 The delegates of South Carolina also wrote the following letter this day, probably to the newly appointed commander of the southern department, Nathanael Greene, concerning prospects for the exchange of a prisoner from their state. “We beg leave to introduce to You the bearer of this, Captain Le backer of the 1st South Carolina Continental Regiment. Should You esteem his exchange practicable, & should it not interfere, in your opinion, with the right of others in captivity to a previous exchange, we can safely recommend him as an officer of merit, & as one who may render service.” Seige of Yorktown Collection, NNPM. The letter was written by Francis Kinloch, and signed by Kinloch, Thomas Bee, John Mathews, and Isaac Motte. No further information on the fate of Captain Le backer has come to light. Benjamin Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia Novr 4th 1780 I Understand the President has not Informed your Excy. of the Reasons why our Cloathing & Military Stores Purchased in France by Dr Franklin are not Imported which is truely a Heavy Disappointment to Congress and Obliges them to Recommend to the States to Provide Cloathing for their Troops the Ensuing Season the Necessity of which is Obvious. 1 I think it my Duty to acquaint your Excellency that those Necessary Articles were Purchased In Good Time by Dr. Franklin and Ordered to be Shiped on Board the Alliance, That forty Cannon, Sixty seven Chests of Arms and two Hundred Barrels of Powder of about Ninty Eight Tons Weight in the Whole were Shiped. (The Cannon I Suppose for Ballast or at Least ought to be) And by means of Disputes and Animosities Subsisting between Capt J. Paul Jones & Capt Landais and Some other Gentlemen whose Duty it was to Promote the Service, Dr. Franklins Express Orders for Shiping the Cloathing was Disobeyed and the Importation wholly Prevented. This is a sumary Conclusion from the Facts that appear from Letters and
