300 Novembers, 1780 Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson [November 5, 1780] 1 The great depreciation of money and the extravagant prices of every thing here together with the difficulty of negotiating Bills renders it absolutely necessary that some stable provision shoud be made, & some fixed mode adopted for supplying us with money, other wise we shall not be able to exist, we shoud be glad to be informed on this head as soon as possible. 2 Reprinted from Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:160. 1 The endorsement on this brief extract, probably written by Jefferson’s clerk, indicates that it was prepared from a November 5 letter from the Virginia delegates that has since been lost. The original may have been written by Theodorick Bland whose financial distress in Philadelphia was apparently more acute than that of his fellow delegates—James Madison and John Walker—and whom Jefferson specifically mentioned in submitting this extract to the Virginia House of Delegates. See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:121. 2 From his November 10 letter to James Madison it is clear that Joseph Jones had been striving “to forward money to the Delegates” since he had returned to Virginia in September, but found he “could not effect it.” Indeed, the House of Delegates approved the accounts submitted by the delegates, but failed in its fall session to increase their compensation, leading Bland to complain to Gov. Jefferson the following June that “My Finances are as well as my Credit entirely exhausted.” See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:96n.4, 160n.l, 170n.l0, 289n.8; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:73. George Plater to Thomas Sim Lee Philadelphia Novr. 6th 1780. Dear Sir I am honor’d by your Favor of the 3d for which be pleased to accept my Acknowledgments. We have various flying Reports of fortunate Events having taken Place in the South, & waited impatiently the Arrival of this Days Post, expecting it to bring Confirmation; but we are as yet without it, notwithstanding some have come in a pretty direct Line. A Letter of short Date from Mr. Curson in St Eustatia mentions a Disposition in the Dutch to War, 1 that they have fifty Sail of Ships, & that the Admiral in that Hand pays great Regard to the American Flag by regularly returning every Salute. A Paragraph in a late N York Paper, complaining of the Perfidy of some Powers which (as they think), ought to be more attached to Britain, seems to give Strength to the above Observation. I am much obliged by your Attention to our Wants, & as you say you shortly expect a considerable Sum, I will take the Liberty to draw. Mrs. Plater begs to be presented to your Lady, & I entreat you to believe
