304 November?, 1780 There is I believe no doubt of an intended Congress at the Hague not of Ministers from the Belligerents but neutral powers under the auspices of Russia; and as the avowed object of it is to establish the liberty of the Seas which G. B has so little respected, and is highly approved by France & Spain as well as all the neutral Maritime powers, it must necessarily prove unfavorable to G. B. and consequently friendly to our views. Congress have thought it advisable to testify their approbation of the liberal principles held out by Russia as the basis of the proposed negociation, and have accordingly by a public Act adopted them so far as to direct the Board of Admiralty to prepare instructions for their Armed Vessels conformable to them. 2 Doct. Lee and Mr. Izzard particularly the latter have been here some time, and I believe are not very reserved in their reflections on the venerable Philosopher at the Court of Versailles. Mr. Izzard I understand is particularly open in his charges against him. Doctr. Lee on his arrival applied to Congress for a hearing on the subject of Mr. Deanes allegations, if any doubt remained of the falsehood [and] malice of them, but nothing final has been done as yet in Consequence of it. 3 I have had great anxiety lest the flame of faction which on a former occasion proved so injurious should be kindled anew, but as far as I can judge the temper of Congress is in general by no means prone to it, although there may be individuals on both sides who would both wish & endeavour it. Not a word has been heard of the Saratoga’s prizes. A partial exchange of Prisoners we hear is agreed on, but have no official account of it. 4 Genls. Lincoln, Thomson, & du portail it is said are included in it, having been set against Philips & Reidezel. I have but few inferior officers named, except Col. Laurens. A gentleman in Statia writes to the Commercial Committee of Octr. 3d that a Dutch war is seriously talked of at that place, 5 that the Dutch are certainly preparing a formidable marine, and that open protection & respect is now given to American Vessels in the same manner as to those of other Independent Nations. If this fact be truely represented, and it is mentioned with strong circumstances of credibility, it is probably one of the fruits of the neutral combinations set on foot by Russia. Congress have just finished an estimate of supplies for the ensuing year requiring of the States the value of 6 Millions of Drs. in specie. The principal part of the requisition consists of specific articles, the residue specie or the new emissions, receivable as specie. 6 If the States fulfill this plan punctually there is no doubt that we can go smoothly through another Campaign and if they would forbear recurring to State emissions & certificates, in procuring the supplies, it may become a permanent & effectual mode of carrying on the war. But past experience will not permit our expectations to be very sanguine. The collection & transportation of specific supplies must necessarily
