306 November?, 1780 Proposition by Mr Sullivan for Draughting an address to the People to Induce them to Lend their Coin & Bullion & also an address to the respective Legeslatures requesting them to Encorage the Loan. Agreed. {Proposition by Mr Clark that the address be to the Legislatures of the States & the Supply reced through them. Agreed. > Proposition by Colo Bland that the Several Legislatures be Directed to call in their State Emissions & not Issue any more Bills of Credit but by advice of Congress. Agreed. Question, by Mr. Sullivan whether is the money if obtained to be Deposited in the General Treasury or in a Bank. Agreed to a Bank. Proposition by Mr. Sullivan, That The Manager of the Bank or Strike & Sign a number of notes from a hundred pounds to an Eighth of a Dollar, a Quarter of which to be payable in one year, one Qr in two years another in 3 years & The Last Quarter in 4 years on Interest of Six per Cent Without Date. That the State Treasurers be Authorized To receive Coin & Bullion & Date & give out notes in Exchange. Agreed, That Congress recommend to the Several States to pass Laws Enabling them to Lay Imposts on Importations for raising a revenue to Defray the Expence of the war & for paying the Debts of the united & States & to take Every possible measure for Encouraging Exportation. That the State of Maryland be Called upon immediately to Accede to the Confederation and in Case of Neglect to Call upon the other twelve States to Confederate. That the States be called upon Respectively to pass Laws Establishing Funds for Redemption of the Bills Emitted by virtue of the resolution of the 18th of M^arch Last & also for Authorizing Congress to Lay Embargoes in time of War. That a manager of the Bank be appointed by Congress. That the Bank be Regulated in the following manner. 2 Agreed, That some Mode must be adopted to establish the Credit of Congress. Agreed, by messrs Bland, Clark & Sullivan that this can only be done by calling in Buillion. Said by Mr Matlock, this is not the only way; a Tax founded on Established Faith, will answer the same Purpose. Questions How can Bullion be called in and in what time? How can a Tax founded on established Faith be made & Collected and in what time? Mr Bland Proposes a Bank (or rather Several different Banks under the same Regulations)
