316 November 9, 1780 Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Dear Sir, Philadelphia Novr. 9th. 1780 I do my self the honour to write your Excellency by the express that goes to Carry the recommendation to the several States for levying a Tax equal in value to Six Million of Silver dollars to be paid as is therin recommended, 1 Upon which I beg liberty to observe that the provisions is called for upon the most accurate calculation the Nature of the business would admit and upon the most mature deliberation. Congress were unanimous of opinion that a lesser quantity could not be relyed on with safety . The Tax is proportioned both as to the Supplies and money agreable to the proportion on which the first fifteen Million Monthly Tax was recommended. Great care hath been taken that the states be called on for such kind of provision as each state could best Supply. It is probable there may be some disproportion in the prices of the several Articles which is intended to be remedyed by a resolution reserving the whole for a liquidation at a future day. The consideration of this business took up much of the time & attention of Congress and they were fully sensible of the burdens their Constituents groaned under at the same time found themselves under the absolute necessity of making the recommendation. They could devise no alternative. I hope our state will adopt the recommendation and find their resources adequate to the requisition. Much is said upon the subject of an Armed Neutrality and some politicians Conjecture it strongly forebodes a general peace. I confess I am not sanguine in my expectations on the subject And can assure you Sr. Congress have not received the most distant official hint that a peace is even conjectured by those Neutral powers. I inclose to your Excellency a Coppy of my letter of the 10th Ultimo that fell into the hands of the Enemy Since Mr. Rivington hath been so kind as to publish it. 2 His motives for so doing I am at a loss to gess, but I must do him that Justice as to say he hath given the publick an Accurate Coppy. General Greene left this City on Saturday last on his way to joyn the Southern Army as did also the Baron Stuben. We have had no news from the Southard for a considerable time— it is generally beleived the Enemy have reimbarked their Troops at Virgina tho Congress have no official account. Where they are gone is not known but it is probable further southard, A letter from Genl. Washington was read in Congress yesterday informing that an embarcation was taking place in NYork supposed to reinforce their Armies to the Southard. 3 Congress have receivd no official letters from abroad for several week past, And I have no further Intelegence worth your Notice. I have the honour to be your Excellencys most obedt Huml Servant Ezek Cornell
