November 9, 1780 317 NB. I apprehend you have not seen the araingment of the Army Mentioned in the Inclosed Coppy as they fell into the hands of the Enemy at the same time My letter did 4 But as the araingment was after wards altered and sent forward which I trust you have receivd it is not so matireal. I shall be more cautious in future in writing as you can easily Judge of my feeling if some of my letters you have receivd had met the fate the one did of which the inclosed is a Coppy. E.C. RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 The circular letter sent to the states by President Huntington this date is in JCC, 18:1038-40. 2 See Cornell to Greene, October 10, 1780. 3 Washington’s November 4 letter containing this report was read in Congress on November 8. JCC, 18:1031; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:289-90. 4 See Samuel Huntington to the States, October 6, 1780, document note. Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia November 9. 1780 I have been honored with your Excellency’s Letter of the 27 Ulto, with the Appointment of Delegates for the State, in which the Powers of the Delegates are not in the least defined, or any mention made what Number of them are authorized to represent the State. 1 I should suppose there is some Act of Assembly, either general or special, relating to this Subject, otherwise it must require at least a Majority of all the Delegates named in the Appointment to represent the State. Genl Woolcott is not yet arrived. Mr B. Huntington’s Time is expired. I find the Post was robbed of my official Letters of the 6 Ulto addressed to the four eastern States, covering Dispatches relating to recruiting the Army, as your Excellency had conjectured; 2 but presume the Intelligence the Enemy obtained thereby must be very disagreeable to them, and as Events have turned up hope it will not retard the recruiting Service. A Copy of that Arrangement was transmitted to the Commander in Chief, to obtain his Sentiments thereon and in Consequence of his Opinion & express Desire, some Alterations have been made in the final Arrangement, which was completed the 21 of October, and transmitted to the several Eastern States, under Cover of my official Letter of the 26 October by a faitful Messenger, who I presume hath delivered them safe long before this. B. Huntington Esqr who will deliver this, cannot wait until the Duplicates of the Despatches which were taken by the Enemy are made out, but they shall be forwarded soon. I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect & Esteem, your Excellency’s most obedient servant, Sam. Huntington
