318 November 9, 1780 RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. > Trumbull’s letter is not in PCC, but for the credentials of the Connecticut delegates that were apparently sent with it, and which were read in Congress on November 6, see JCC, 18:1021—22. 2 For the capture of Huntington’s October 6 letters and a number of others posted at about the same time, see the document note at Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene, October 10, 1780. William Sharpe to William Lee Davidson Novr. 9th [1780] 1 P.S. I forgot to inform you 2 that Genl. Lincoln with upwards of an hundred Officers are lately exchanged. And that the commanders in Chief are about to negociate a general exchange, including the convention troops and our Militia. Genl. Washington is instructed to endeavour to obtain a condition, that, the convention and other british prisoners shall not take the field nor bear Arms before the first of May. 3 However humanity dictated an immediate exchange, yet our present critical situation to the southward made it a great question in policy; was the exchange to take place immediately and the enemy at Liberty to Arm and send forth their liberated troops it might be a fatal stroke to the State of No. Carolina; because in that State we have not Arms, Stores &c at present to put into the hands of Our liberated troops & Militia in order to make a vigorous defence, therefore the Delegates of No. Carolina have been the means of keeping back the exchange a few weeks past and of quallifying the measure as above mentioned, 4 with a view to get Genl. Greene in command, get forward some Arms, Stores &c—and get time to draw out and organize a little Army, that may promise us some defence, all which I hope will sufficiendy justify our conduct to our brave and virtuous Officers and Soldiers who are in a distressing captivity. We have been so opposed in this business of delaying the exchange, by some of our neighbouring Delegates, who has a passionate fondness for their friends, that we have been threatned with the displeasure of those in captivity. These things have but little effect on the minds of men determined to do what appears to be right. We are so well assured of the patriotism of Our Officers & Soldiers, that they would at the risk of their lives endure six months or perhaps twenty months longer confinement rather than obtain liberty at the risque of a whole State. Wm. Sharpe RC (PRO: Cornwallis Papers, P.R.O. 30/11/106). Addressed: “Genl. Davidson.” ‘ Only this partially dated postscript to Sharpe’s intercepted letter has been found. 2 Gen. William Lee Davidson (1746-1781), who had served in northern campaigns with units of the North Carolina Continental Line, was militia commander of the
