November 10, 1780 319 Salisbury district. He was killed February 1, 1781, at the battle of Cowan’s Ford, N.C. DAB. 3 Washington’s letter of November 7, informing Congress of the exchange of Gen. Benjamin Lincoln and “about one hundred forty of our Officers,” had reached Philadelphia this day. Congress, meanwhile, had instructed Washington to seek the exchange of “all Continental Prisoners of War.” See Samuel Huntington to Washington, November 12, 1780. 4 It is unclear from the journals how the North Carolina delegates had been “the means of keeping back the exchange a few weeks past,” but for the background of the present attempt to revise Washington’s prisoner exchange instructions, see William Churchill Houston’s Proposed Report, July 10, 1780. The delegates’ suggestion that they had succeeded in “qualifying the measure” reported at note 3 above, however, does not appear to be the case. North Carolina was the only state to vote against the clause of the instructions permitting Washington to decide whether or not the restriction on the use of the Convention troops in the southern campaign before May 1, 1781, would be made an ultimatum in such negotiations. See JCC, 18:1030. Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Dear Sir Philadelphia Novr. 10th. 1780 The subject I am now to address your Excellency upon gives me pain. At the same time necessity obliges me to inform you that I am destitute of Cash. I receivd, before I left the state, £4000 supposed at that time to be sufficient for Sixty days Expence. I have obtained from the Continental Treasury with much difficulty 5000 Dollars all which is expended and I am much in debt and liable to be duned every day in the week which I am obliged to submit to without any prospect of being able to make payment unless I can obtain releif from you Nor shall I be able to live in the place much less get home. I do not pretend to Claim your attention from any merit or demands I have a right to upon any other principals then that of the treatment of former delegates. I hope you will pardon the freedom I have taken in this letter as it was dictated by my feeling and not my wishes. I have the honour to be your Hum Servt, E Cornell NB. My Board is at present Six Silver Dollars per Week Exclusive of any kind of licquor and half that sum for a Servant. The Exchange is at least Eighty for one—And the New Money will not pass at forty for one. My Horse costs me Twenty Continental Dollars per Day in the Continental stable which is less then I can get him kept for in any other place. E.C. RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors).
