November 11, 1780 321 Willie Jones to Unknown Dear Sir Philad. November 10. 1780. I received your favor of the 10th of October, since which nothing very material has occurred. The Delegates for the State of No. Carolina, from the hour of my Arrival at this place have been endeavouring to obtain arms & Military Stores for the Southern Department, but with very little Effect. Five or six hundred Tents, and about as many muskets are at length prepared, and left (to be forwarded) in Care of Colo. Phebecker by Order of Genl. Green, who, together with Baron Stuben, set out for No. Carolina five or six Days ago. Colo. Lees Corps marched two Days past from this place for the Southward. We are informed by Genl. Washington that another Embarkation is going on at New York, supposed to be destined for the Southward. I think the Enemy will push hard this Winter for the Conquest, or at least for the possession of No. Carolina, for which Reason it will be good policy to make the utmost possible Exertions, let the Expence attending them, or the Duty in the Field fall ever so hard upon our Constituents. There are many Reasons to justify such Measures, too obvious to need repeating to you; but I will mention a single one; a powerful armed Neutrality is about to hold a Congress in Europe, and how far their Views may extend is unknown; possibly they may dictate a peace to the Belligerent powers, and, if so, it is to be dreaded that an Uti possidetis will be one of the articles. The Idea of taking New York (the favourite child of Congress and of Genl. Washington for two years past) may possibly prove the Ruin of the Southern States. With the most sincere Regard for you and your family I remain, Dear Sir, Your most obedt. Servt. Willie Jones RC (MeHi: Fogg Collection). Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams NIy dear Betsy Philade Nove 11th 1780. I have receivd no Letter from you since the 9th of October. Some Accident prevented the Arrival of the Eastern Post last Monday and he is now not expected till the next. I hope I shall then receive a Line from you, to let me know at least that you are well. If you do not acknowledge the Receipt of my Letter of the 10th of October, 1 I shall conclude that it fell into wrong hands; for the Post that took Charge of the Letters from hence of that Date, was robbd of his Mail in Connecticut and it was carried to New York. I am uncertain
