324 November 11, 1780 1 That is, Mary’s brother Henry Livingston. 2 Hugh Keeler. 3 Alexander McDougall, a tenant at Duanesborough. George Walton to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia, 11 November, 1780 Your Excellency will be pleased to recollect, that, sometime since, the delegates of Georgia addressed you respecting lieutenant Morris, of the Southern artillery, and to which you answered, that you would transmit the proposal to Sir Henry Clinton. A considerable time has now elapsed, and Mr. Morris remaining in a disagreable state of suspence, I cannot forbear to entreat your farther attention to his case. 1 Congress, in the former part of the present year, referred an application from the same State, to the Commander in chief. It was respecting Samuel Elbert, esquire, Colonel and principal Officer in the line of the State, and Brigadier-general of the militia, who being a prisoner of war, the Government was very solicitous to procure his exchange. 2 Should you have done any thing in consequence of this reference; Should be happy in having it in my power to make the communication. Major-general Lincoln, during his command of the Southern Army, made a proposition to hdajor-general Prevost, to exchange Elbert for Governor Wright: but the latter objecting that he ought to be considered as a prisoner, it was referred to the decision of Sir Henry Clinton. General Lincoln can advise particularly respecting this business and I rely upon your Excellency’s moving in it to a proper length. 3 . Mr. & Mrs. Matthews inform me that an application is about to be made to Sir Henry Clinton, thro your Excellency, for permission for the latter to go in a flag to Charles-town; and Mrs. Walton’s Sister, (who is now with us,) having an Estate of Negroes in Georgia; Seems inclined to embrace so good an opportunity of going there. I request, therefore, that you will apply also for leave for Miss Ann Sarah Camber, to go to Savannah in Georgia, by way of Charles town in South-Carolina. 4 As it will be her wish to return to her sister, by this or some other flag, I leave it to your Excellency to determine, whether it is necessary to mention such intention—or whether it may not be left open, and for her to depend upon a passport to return from the Commanding Officer there? If there could be no doubt of Sir Henry’s agreeing to give a permission to return at leisure, I could wish it asked for, altho it might encrease the difficulty of getting her negroes. Miss Camber is hopeful of returning this winter; but I think it improbable.
