November 12, 1780 325 I have the honor to be, with great respect, your Excellency’s most Obedient servant, Geo Walton RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). i For Lt. Thomas Morris’ exchange, see Georgia Delegates to Washington, August 2, 1780, note. 2 See these Letters, 14:412. 3 In his November 19 response, Washington reported that nothing had been done regarding Elbert’s exchange because negotiations for a general exchange of prisoners had been “broken off, for want of proper powers on the part of the British Commissioners,” but added that he was “ignorant of any transactions between General Lincoln and General Prevost on the subject.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:366. 4 In his reply, Washington indicated that he had “requested liberty for Miss Camber to go to Charles town . . . upon the same terms as those asked for Mrs. Mathews.” See ibid.; and John Mathews to Washington, October 14, 1780. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia November 12. 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, Copies of several Acts of Congress, of the 4th, 7th, 9th & 10th Instant. 1 By that of the 4th, the several States therein mentioned, are called upon to levy a Tax equal to Six Millions of silver Dollars, to be paid partly in specific Articles of Provision, & partly in Money, at the Times & in the Manner expressed. By the Act of the 7th (a Copy of which will be forwarded to Genl Greene) your Excellency is authorized to effect an Exchange of all Continental Prisoners of War & now in Possession of the Enemy, and of the Hostages given in Canada; all Officers on Parole & Officers Violators of Parole, & Militia actually taken in Arms & remaining Prisoners of War, for an equal Number of Prisoners in our Hands, including the Convention Troops if an Exchange can be affected upon the Terms mentioned in the Act. 2 It is needless to remark to your Excellency how exceedingly the Individuals of our Troops in Captivity feel themselves injured, if they are not exchanged in the Order of their Captivity; as I take it to be a rule you have ever adhered to, when not inadmissible from peculiar circumstances, which have caused a Deviation therefrom in some particular Cases. The Act of the 9th will inform your Excellency that the Hospital Chaplains are discontinued, & Brigade Chaplains from Time to Time are to attend the established Hospitals. The annexed Order enjoining the Officers of the Cavalry to purchase no more Horses on public Account without the Order of Congress, was passed several Days before your Letter of the 7th Instant came to Hand which mentions the Propriety of such Practice
