328 November 13, 1780 1 Not found. Writing in behalf of the committee on the southern department, Mathews undoubtedly sent Greene excerpts of Washington’s November 4 letter to Congress concerning the arrival of Gen. Alexander Leslie s forces in Chesapeake Bay and intelligence of a possible second British embarkation at New York “destined to the South,” for which see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:289-90. 2 See Samuel Huntington to Washington, November 12, 1780. 3 See Huntington to Greene, November 16, 1780. John Henry to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir Philadela. Nov. 13. 1780 Last Spring Mrs. Stevinson my unfortunate Relation, made an application to the General Assembly, for permission to visit her Husband Doctor Stevinson a refugee in New-York. 1 Since her residence in that City, from Indispossition and distress of Mind, she has been totally deprived of her sight. In this melencholy Situation, without the Hopes of soon re-visiting her native Country, the absence of her Children, greatly augments her afflictions. Her eldest child does not exceed nine years of age the other two of course must be younger. Their Innocence and youth will cover them from public resentment and their incapacity to injure the State influence your Excellency to afford them an oppertunity of enjoying the Comforts and protection of a parent. The criminality of the Father I trust will not reach his unoffending offspring. If an application should be made to your Excellency and the Council, in their behalf, for permission to go into New York, it will afford me some Satisfaction, to hear that their request was not rejected. 2 Could the State be any way interested or affected by their detention I should not interest myself in their behalf, but as they are incapable of harm, no reasonable objection can be made. For the News of the Day I shall refer you to my letter to the General Assembly. 3 I am Sir with the highest sentiments of respect, Yrs, J. Henry RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). i In November 1779 the Maryland Assembly had granted Mrs. Ann Stevenson permission to apply to the commanding officer at Elizabeth, N.J. , for leave to visit her husband Henry in New York and to return. See Md. Archives, 43:24. 2 In March 1781 the Council granted permission for the Stevenson children to join their parents in New York, for which see ibid., 45:350. 3 Not found.
