336 November 14, 1780 “was on the anvil in Congress”—that states not be permitted to use their own “certificates and emissions” in meeting assigned quotas—it was not recorded in the journal. In a direct vote on October 26 Madison had supported that portion of the measure which permitted the states to pay the monetary portion of their quota in “bills of credit of the emissions directed by the resolution of the 18 of March last.” SeeJCC, 18:981. 3 For John Walker’s departure from Philadelphia, see Walker to George Weedon, October 24, 1780, note. 4 For Edmund Pendleton’s November 6 letter regarding James Henry s resignation and Jones’ November 10 inquiry concerning Pemberton, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:164, 168-70. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton D r sir Philada. Novr. 14th. 1780 Yr. favor of the 6th inst: 1 came to land yesterday. Mr. Griffin 2 by whom you appear also to have written has not yet arrived. It gives me great pleasure to find that the Enemy s numbers are so much less formidable that [than] was at first computed, but the information from N. York makes it not improbable that the blank in the computation may shortly be filled up. Genl. Washington wrote to Congress of the 4th inst. that another embarkation was going on at that place, and in another letter of the 7th he says that although he had received no further intelligence on the Subject, he had reason still to believe that such a measure was in contemplation. Neither the amount nor the object of it however had been ascertained. The inroads of the Enemy on the Frontiers of N. York have been distressing & wasteful almost beyond their own example. They have totally laid in ashes a fine setdement called Schoarie which was capable Gel Washington says of yielding no less than 80,000 bushels of grain for public consumption. Such a loss is inestimable, and is the more to be regretted because, both local circumstances, and the energy of that Govt, left little doubt that it would have been applied to public use. I fancy the taking of Quebec was a mere invention. Your letter gave me first account of such a report. A different report concerning the 2d. division of the French fleet has sprung up as you will see by the inclosed paper. It is believed here by many, and some attention given to it by all. It is also said that Rodney has saild from N. York with 10 Ships for Europe. If he has sailed at all & the first report be true also, it is more likely that he is gone out to meet the french. The late exchange has liberated abt. 140 Officers & all our privates at N. Y. amounting to 476. G. Washington has acceded to a proposal of a further example of the Convention Officers without attaching any privates to them, which will liberate almost the whole residue of our Officers at that place.
