338 November 15, 1780 John Sullivan to Meshech Weare Dear Sir Schulkill Falls November 15th 1780. 1 Some time has Elapsed, since I wrote You last owing to my having been ill, with the Fever which raged in the City. I was not confind more than a Week, yet it left me so Enfeebled that an attention to the Business in Congress; and on Committees which met every Morning and Evening not only prevented my Writing but reduced me so low that I was compell’d to move to this Place for recovery of Health from which I ride into the City every Morning to meet Committees at Nine, attend Congress afterwards; and return at Night, this Deprives me of that Leisure which I would wish to Employ in giving You every possible Information respecting our Publick Affairs. I am sorry to say that they are far from affording Pleasure to the Friends of America; former Congresses undoubtly had their Difficulties; and whether any other set of Men under their Circumstances would have done better is not Easy for a Judicious Mind to Determine. Events have however proved their Error and call aloud for a speedy reformation. Perhaps most of our Difficulties have arisen from an Ignorance of Finance, & the want of System in every Department. A new Army is now Arrainged the States now called upon for Men and Specific Supplies. All Publick Departments are now Arranging upon oeconomical Principles. The several and expensive Navy Boards will be Abolished. The War Office and Treasury Board regulated. A Committee is appointed for arranging our Finances. A Loan from France solicited in the most pressing and Positive Terms: and a regular System will soon take Place. Perhaps it may be thought a late Hour for this reformation, but is it not better late than never? Every Days Experience proves that many of our Distresses arise from a want of Power in Congress to carry any of their Measures into Execution. They send Requisitions to the States, some comply, some do not; and the Consequence of this is too Obvious to need Explanation. Hence it is that our Army is often ready to Perish with Hunger and Cold. I am happy to find that New Hampshire stands formost in Her Compliance with the requisitions of Congress. At present we have no Money in the Treasury, some States have not yet receiv’d their new Money or call’d in their Old. This with the Artful Industry of Tories, and Speculators has Depreciated the Old Money to Eighty five and even to a Hundred and ten for one in this City. This of course more than doubles our National Debt; for as the Bills of the 18th of March must be redeemed with Silver and Gold, and are Issued at forty for one Five Million of Silver Dollars must’be employed to redeem the two Hundred Million of Dollars Emitted: When at only Eighty for one two Millions and a half of
