November 18, 1780 353 Offices who in the Commencement of the present Contest when the Event was doubtful used every Artifice to destroy that Theatre upon which they can now appear with so much Safety and Satisfaction Though this may easily be accounted for from the Principles which Govern the Human Heart Yet I confess I am not Able to decide upon the Conduct of those who have from the earliest Period been high in their Professions have condemned the doubting, the Timid and the Neutral American and yet Use all their Influence to Promote those very Persons in Opposition to others who have every Claim that Principles of Gratitude and Patriotism can Inspire to draw their Esteem and Influence. When I discover a Conduct like this I cannot help observing that it is possible for some Men to Possess the best of Principles for the most Pernicious Purposes. That Your Excellency may long experience the Gratitude of a Brave and Generous People equal to the Merit You have ever discovered both in Publick and Private Life is the most fervent Wish of Dear Sir, Your Excellency’s most Obedt. and most Humble Servant. Jno Sullivan RC (MiU-C: Hancock Papers). In a clerical hand, and signed by John Sullivan. One of several delegate letters intercepted by the British and published in James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette, for which see Sullivan to Meshech Weare, November 15, 1780. 1 That is, James Bowdoin. Treasury Inquiry Committee Minutes Saturday November 18th. 1780. Present Mr. McKean, Mr. Bee, Mr. Ward, Mr. Sharpe, & Mr Matlack. Also Mr Gibson, Mr Forman, Mr Geddis, And Mr Nicholson. 1 Mr Huston 2 introduced and desired to give evidence on the charges exhibitted by the Com. of Treas. Agt. the Chambers of Accots. and the sd. charges were read whereupon Mr. Huston was requested to proceed. Mr. Gibson rose and having made some observations on the propriety of having heard Mr Hustons evidence first in order desired that the question then in his hand on paper might be proposed. Mr Gibson was informed—That the Committee adhered to the mode of hearing the evidence first—and that afterwards he would be at liberty to ask any questions he pleased. 3 Mr. Huston asked to what points he was to answer. It was replied—the charges of indolence &c as stated. 4 While I attended the Treasury 10 Novr. 1779—for six months— The Board met at 9 in the Morning—the Members of Congress at
