November 18, 1780 357 Qu. By Mr. Govett to Mr. Nicholson. At what time did I usually attend at the Chambers in the morning & afternoon? An. You were generally first there. Qu. Was I ever absent two, three, or four days at a time, except when I was confined by sickness, or detained in consequence, of the death of my child? An. [Approximately one-quarter page left blank.] Mr Duane' 1 produced on the part of Mr Gibson. Qu. Do you recollect whether Mr Gibson reserved the chamber on the second floor for his own use, at the time he let the house to the Treasury? 12 An. He does not remember particulars but it is impressed on his mind and have no doubt that the sd. room was reserved to Mr. Gibson—who lodged in the house and the papers were considered as being secured by his residence there which was a public benefit. 13 MS (DNA: PCC, item 62). In the hand of Timothy Matlack and Thomas McKean. A continuation of the committee minutes of November 17, 1780. 1 John Nicholson, a clerk in the chamber of accounts, whom the commissioners had attempted to have removed in July for “leaking” their correspondence and writing a “Burlesque Parody” of their conduct. See PCC, item 62, fols. 381-88, 397-400, 452-55. 2 New Jersey delegate William Churchill Houston, a member of the Board of Treasury from November 9, 1779, to May 9, 1780. JCC, 15:1447, 18:1230. 3 The following detached note located among the committee’s papers, in the hand of Timothy Matlack, may have been written in connection with this episode. It bears upon both the repeated efforts of Gibson and Forman to dictate the committee’s procedures and their complaint that Matlack’s hostility jeopardized their right to an impartial hearing. “Note. That Mr. Gibson demanded then to be heard on the charge against the Com[missioner]s of Treasury. “The charges exhibitted against the Chamber of accots. is in writing. And the Testimony on which these charges are founded is mentioned to be such as are there mentioned—among the evidences Mr. Huston was not mentioned. “The charges against the Com. Treas. was the original and distinct thing. The charges of the Com. of Treasury against the Chamber of Accots. was instituted afterwards by the Com. of Treasury and it was evidently the design of the Com. ofTr[easury] to involve them together. This I objected to.” PCC, item 62, fol. 393. 4 That is, the second of Forman’s and Gibson’s charges. See the committee minutes of November 17, note 4. 5 See the committee minutes of October 26, note 15. 6 These “interrogatories to be proposed to Mr Houston,” which are in the hand of John Gibson, are incorrectly filed in the middle of the committee minutes for this date written by Matlack and McKean. They read as follows: “Interrogatories to be proposed to Mr Huston. “Qn. 1. As you sat Six Months at the Board of Treasury, from the Commencement of the present Establishment, we wish to know your sense of the Conduct of Ezekiel Forman and John Gibson during that Time, with Respect to Insolence and undue Pride of Office, and what is your opinion of the Expediency, of fixing Rules and Regulations, for the Government of the Treasury, & of executing the Business thereof. “Qn. 2. While Col. Troop acted as Secretary to the Board; & Prior to Mr
