November 19, 1780 359 John Sullivan to the Officers of the New Hampshire Line Gentlemen Philadelphia November 19th 1780. 1 It is with Infinite Anxiety and Concern that I hear of the Difficulties arising among You respecting the New Arrangement of the Army. I am well convinced of the Sufferings of our Officers and have with Pleasure viewed the Fortitude and Firmness with which they Encountered and Surmounted every Difficulty and this even without any rational Hope of ever being put upon a respectable Military Establishment. But this Event has now taken Place and the Army has every thing to hope which can reasonably be expected or desired by Men who have ventured their All in defence of their Country; and even those who are to retire have proper and generous Provision made for them. But should this bring about a Contention for the Preference (not for remaining in Service but) for retiring will not this cast a shade over all their virtuous Actions and induce Mankind to believe that Interest and Ease have gained the Ascendency over Publick and Military Virtue. Those Members of Congress who exerted themselves to obtain a proper and Honorable Establishment for their Officers had so good an Opinion of their Military Ambition that they believed there would be a contention among them for remaining in Service but by no means for retiring and I shall be exceedingly mortified if I am Compell’d to Change my Sentiments especially with respect to the Newhampshire Line. I am Informed some doubts have arisen respecting the Resolve of Congress which I wish to explain. Congress directed a meeting of the Officers of each State (not for determining who should go home) but to fix upon proper Officers to Command the Regiments of the respective States and where they could not agree it was to be determined by Seniority the Obvious and Natural Constructions is that where the Corps could not be Established by agreement they were to be compleated by Seniority. Whoever would put a different Construction upon it must suppose that Congress meant at once to get rid of all their old and Experienced Officers and to put the Army under the Command of Young and Inexperienced Men. This Construction is not only against the natural and obvious meaning of the Words but against common Sense and reason, and I confess I was not a little surprised to hear that some Officers in the Newhampshire Line had supposed that this was the meaning of Congress. Permit me Gentlemen to Intreat Your Perseverance in gaining the Object so long and Nobly contended for: and You may rest assured that those brave Men who continue in Service will have in
