360 November 19, 1780 Addition to the Applauses of a grateful Country every Emolument which the nature of our Service will admit. I have the Honor to be with the most Perfect Attachment Gentlemen, Your most obedt Servt, Jno Sullivan RC (MiU-C: Sir Henry Clinton Papers). In a clerical hand, and signed by John Sullivan. 1 This letter was one of several intercepted by the British and subsequently published in James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette, for which see Sullivan to Meshech Weare, November 15, 1780. It was originally enclosed in a letter of this date to Col. Alexander Scammell, adjutant general of the Continental Army and an old friend of Sullivan’s, for which see the following entry. Scammell was asked to show this “address” to General Washington, and, if he approved, then to the officers of the New Hampshire Line to clarify the seniority provisions of the new arrangements for the army adopted by Congress on October 21. The New Hampshire officers, Sullivan had learned, were apprehensive over pending reductions in the number of officers in their regiments, and especially over the provision ordering “the officers of each state to meet and agree upon the officers for the regiments to be raised by their respective states, from those who incline to continue in service; and where it cannot be done by agreement to be determined by seniority.” The resolves at issue had been drafted by Sullivan as a member of the committee appointed to consider revisions of the new army arrangements recommended by Washington, and in the original version had included a provision that would have designated officers to be retained “by lot.” See PCC, item 19, 6:307; and JCC, 18:960. John Sullivan to Alexander Scammell Dear Sir, 1 Philadelphia Novem 19. 1780 Having been informed of some difficulties in the New Hampshire Line respecting the late arrangement, I enclose you an address to the Officers which I beg you will present after shewing it to his Excellency and receiving his approbation without which I would not wish to have it communicated, as I do not conceive myself authorised to address any part of the army without his concurrence. I am Dear Sir, your most obedient Servant, Jno Sullivan Tr (MiU-C: Sir Henry Clinton Papers). 1 Col. Alexander Scammell (1744-81), adjutant general of the Continental Army, was a former law clerk of Sullivan. DAB. For the purpose of this letter, see the preceding entry. Both documents were included in the following letter of this date to New Hampshire governor Meshech Weare.
