November 20, 1780 361 John Sullivan to Meshech Weare Dear Sir, Philadelphia Novemr 19th. 1780 As I was informed that upon the new Arrangement of the Army there was a Contention among the New Hampshire Officers for retiring which gave much uneasiness to His Excellency General Washington, I took the liberty of addressing them in writing, a Copy whereof and of my Letter to Colonel Scammell is inclosed, 1 hope they will meet the Approbation of the Honorable Assembly. I have the Honor to be, most respectfully Dear Sir, your most obedient Servant, Signed, Jno. Sullivan Tr (MiU-C: Sir Henry Clinton Papers). 1 See the two preceding documents, copies of which were enclosed in this intercepted letter to Weare. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philadelphia Novr 20th 1780 In your Letter of the 17th of Septr 1 which is still before me you say, that “the Tongue of Malice has always been employed against me,” and in mentioning it, you discover the Feelings of a Friend. It may perhaps in some Measure relieve those Feelings, if I tell you that it serves to make me the more watchful over my self, lest by any Misconduct, I should afford Occasion to malicious Men, to say that of me which would give me just Cause to be ashamd. It is said to be a Misfortune to a Man, when all speak well of him. Is it then an Advantage to a Man, that he has Enemies? It may be so, if he has Wisdom to make a good Use of them. We are apt to be partial, in our own Judgment of ourselves. Our friends are either blind to our Faults, or not faithful enough to tell us of them. The malicious Man will utter all Manner of Evil of us, and contrive Means to send it post haste to our Ears; and if among much Slander, they say some Truths, what have we to do, but to correct past Errors, & guard against future ones. The Report you mention as propagated of me, is groundless. 2 Would any Man in his Senses, who wishes that the War may be carried on with Vigor, prefer the temporary and expensive Drafts of Militia, to a permanent and well appointed Army! But Envy knows no other Business than to calumniate. Mr Penny has deliverd me your Favor of the 2d Instant. 3 He has also brought us a Paper which exhibits a Picture of the Times. You express too much Resentment at the Ingratitude which you imagine has been shown to your Friend 4 —that his Name has not been found in any of the Lists, and especially that he could not be supported
