368 November 20, 1780 2 In his letter to the delegates Morgan had proposed that the “dispute in Question between the State and the Company” be submitted to arbitration by a panel chosen by Congress “in the Same Manner as is directed by the Articles of Confederation in like Cases, between State and State.” 3 In May 1779 the Virginia assembly had voided the purchase of Indian lands within its territory and reopened its land office, an action which Morgan, as agent of the Indiana Company, had protested the following September in a memorial to Congress, for which see Hening, Statutes, 10:50, 97-98; and these Letters, 14:134. In this instance, however, Morgan was undoubtedly responding to the states’ recent effort to nullify Indian land purchases by the great companies, for which see James Madison to Joseph Jones, September 19, 1780, note. Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Dear Sir Philadelphia Novr. 21st. 1780 I had the honour to receive your Excellencys favour of the 1st Instant by yesterdays post. And have taken due notice of the contents, and so far as respcts the New Bills beg leave to refer you to the offical information from the Treasury board that is inclosed. But when it is struck I fear there will be a difficulty in forwarding them unless I under take the Business my self which I shall do if not done without. I have examined at the Treasury Board for information respecting the Bills of Exchange you mention they will not own that Mr. Clark* hath wrote for any. There is Bills ready as soon as a safe conveyance can be had I dare not give my recept for them to go by the post. But shall miss no safe opportunity to forward them. So far as respects the postage of the Blank Commisns. &c I beg leave to observe that Governor Jefferson made a similar Complaint and nothing more was done then the passing the Inclosed Resolution, 2 At the same time it appeared to be the sense of Congress that the state aught to pay the sum charged and carry the same to the Accompt of the United States. As the matter hath been so late before Congress I cannot suppose you would wish me to Urge the matter over again. I cannot have too high an opinion of the Honl the General Assembly on account of the particular favour they have done me, in thier liberal Grants to Enable me to return home as soon as releivd, 3 which I hope will soon take place when I shall be so happy as to have the pleasure of giveing you a more particular account of our publick affairs then either time or prudence will permit at this time. I have the honour to be with every sentiment of Esteem, your Excellencys most obedt Humble Servant, Ezek Cornell RC (MiU-C: Sir Henry Clinton Papers). One of several delegate letters intercepted by the British and published in James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette, for which see John Sullivan to Meshech Weare, November 15, 1780. 1 That is, Joseph Clarke, general treasurer of Rhode Island. 2 In the absence of Greene’s letter the precise nature of Greene’s concern can
