376 November 22, 1780 letter that Bland intended it to be a joint communication with James Madison. The two clearly disagreed, however, over the Virginia assembly’s instructions concerning the navigation of the Mississippi River which had been laid before Congress in August. See Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene, August 22, 1780, note 4. Bland had, however, adopted the position taken a few days earlier by the Georgia delegation, for which see the Georgia Delegates Proposed Resolutions, November 18. For Madison’s views on his disagreement with Bland, see Madison to Joseph Jones, November 25, 1780. 3 Bland also wrote a purely personal letter the following day to his brother-in- law, St. George Tucker, in which he mentioned that “I dine with Monsr. de la Luzerne tomorrow, and must therefore make use of every leisure moment to Volatilize my Imagination, fixd as it has been so long a time with the weighty affairs of the State.” Tucker-Coleman Papers, ViW. Treasury Inquiry Committee Minutes Thursday Novr. 23rd, 1780 Present Mr. McKean, Mr. Bee, Mr. Ward, Mr Sharpe & Mr. Matlack. The Commissioners of the Chambers of accots. laid before the Committee their defence in writing and the same was read. 1 At two o’clock T Matlack retired. 2 MS (DNA: PCC, item 62). In the hand of Timothy Matlack. A continuation of the committee minutes of November 20, 1780. 1 “The Commissioners General Defence,” which responds seriatim to each of the five charges directed at them by Ezekiel Forman and John Gibson, is in PCC, item 62, fols. 343-50. It is endorsed: “Received & read in Committee Novr. 23d. 1780.” 2 This day not only brought these hearings to a close, but also marked the end of Timothy Matlack’s congressional career, as he was not included on the new slate of delegates to Congress elected by the Pennsylvania Assembly on November 23. See JCC, 18:1087. But his work on the committee probably did not end when he “retired” from the committee chamber “At two o’clock” this day, since the draft committee report on this investigation is in Matlack’s hand. PCC, item 62, fols. 464-65. The point would be of little significance were it not for the fact that the report actually submitted to Congress the following day is in the hand of John Walker, who had had no formal role in the committee’s proceedings since November 6, when his congressional term had ended. His involvement in the submission of the committee’s report is nevertheless obvious, and doubtless can be attributed to the committee’s sensitivity to charges by Forman and Gibson that they could not get an impartial hearing from McKean and Matlack. As Walker had been explicity exempted from the commissioners’ accusations, it seems clear that his assistance was requested as a diplomatic gesture, for the committee’s report was clearly drafted by Matlack, and the final work differs from his draft in a few minor particulars only. See JCC, 18:1091-92; and PCC, item 19, 3:179-82, item 62, fols. 464-65. However, to judge from the committee’s noncontroversial major recommendation— that “The Treasury should be under the direction of a single officer, accountable to Congress”—the precaution would seem to have been unnecessary. Still, Forman and Gibson were not mollified, and continued to press their case against the commissioners of accounts, even after the latter were formally acquitted in January
