November 24, 1780 377 1781 and Congress began to formulate plans for executive departments, ultimately placing the treasury under the direction of a superintendent of finance. For documents bearing on this final chapter of Forman’s and Gibson’s fruitless maneuvers, see PCC, item 62, fols. 521-56, 621-28, 631-38. Although this treasury investigation had occupied Congress many months and ended inconclusively, it does provide insight into the difficulties of congressional oversight of the administrative offices and suggests significant erosion of congressional authority, morale, and competence. Another minor episode related to the inquiry which occurred this final day of hearings points to a similar conclusion. According to the journals, Jared Ingersoll interrupted this morning’s congressional proceedings by observing that William Geddes, one of the commissioners of accounts under investigation, had been elected paymaster general of the army the preceding day without any acknowledgment “that a complaint had been exhibited against the chambers of accounts,” whereupon Congress immediately resolved that Geddes’ election “be set aside. ” JCC, 18:1067, 1079, 1085. Whether any members of the committee had been in attendance when Geddes was nominated or elected is not known, but in any event the episode must have provided an embarrassing moment and reflects poorly on the quality of congressional deliberations at this time. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Philade Nove 24 1780. Yesterday I wrote to Mr Wells, 1 and in haste because I was informd that Dr Craigie was then instantly setting off for Boston. As he has waited another Day, I have the Opportunity of acknowledging the Receipt of your Letters of the 25th of October & the 8th of Novr which were brought to me by the Post. You seem, my Dear, to express more Concern than I think you ought, at certain Events that have of late taken Place in the Common Wealth of Massachusetts. 2 Do you not consider that in a free Republick, the People have an uncontroulable right of chusing whom they please, to take their Parts in the Administration of publick Affairs? No Man has a Claim on his Country, upon the Score of his having renderd publick Service. It is the Duty of every one to use his utmost Exertions in promoting the Cause of Liberty & Virtue; and having so done, if his Country thinks proper to call others to the arduous Task, he ought chearfully to acquiesce, and he may Console himself with the Contemplation of an Honest Man in private Life. You know how ardently I have wishd for the Sweets of Retirement. I am like to have my Wish. You are witness that I have not raisd a fortune in the Service of my Country. I glory in being what the World calls a poor Man. If my Mind has ever been tincturd with Envy, the Rich & the Great have not been its objects. If I have been vain, Popularity, tho’ I had as much of it as any Man ought to have, is not the Phantome I have pursued. He who gains the Approbation of the Virtuous Citizens, I will own may feel himself happy; but he is in Reality much more so, who knows he deserves it. Such a Man, if he cannot retreat with Splendor, he may with Dignity. I will trust in that all gracious Being,
