382 November 25, 1780 You will please to make my best compliments agreeable to your Lady and believe me to be your Sincere friend and humble Servant. FC (MHi: Ward Papers). In the hand of Artemas Ward, and endorsed by him: “Doctr. Gordons June 7. 80, answered in Novr by Mr. Penney.” 1 This date has been derived from Ward’s endorsement indicating that the letter was sent “in Novr by Mr. Penney,” and from a comment by Samuel Adams on November 22 that he expected Timothy Penny to “set off for Boston in a few days.” Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams, November 22, 1780. 2 Gordon had written to Ward to propose that Congress undertake an investigation of the dispute in which he had become embroiled with Alexander Hamilton over allegations that Hamilton had advised an uprising against Congress. More precisely, a rumor had circulated in early 1779 that Hamilton had declared “that it was high time for the people to rise, join Genl. Washington and turn Congress out of Doors,” and Hamilton’s friends had traced the origin of the rumor, through Francis Dana, to Gordon. Hamilton thereupon had called on Gordon to “disclose the authority on which your information to Mr. Dana was founded,” and failing to obtain satisfaction issued a challenge to a duel. Gordon, a minister, had of course declined the invitation, and brought the matter to the attention of Washington and to the Massachusetts delegates in Congress. Washington advised Gordon that if he wished “to exhibit any charge against Colo Hamilton cognizable by a military tribunal,” he had only to signify his intent and declare when his witnesses would be ready to proceed. Ward, meanwhile, found no sentiment among his colleagues for bringing the case before Congress. For the many documents related to the controversy, see Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 2:90-92, 108-9, 127-28, 140-43, 149-50, 153-56, 162, 168-69, 184-85, 187-88, 222, 224, 313-17; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:322-23. For Ward’s reluctance either to press the matter in Congress or to advise Gordon on a course of action, see the following note. 3 Ward’s “answer in Season,” concerning the “dispute between you and Colo. Hamilton” discussed in the preceding note, also survives among the Ward Papers at MHi. It too is undated, and reads as follows: “Dear Doctor, Your favour of the Seventh Ult came duly to hand. I have had some conversation with my Collegues relative to the matter in dispute between you and Colo. Hamilton. We were unanimously of the opinion that considering the present Situation of our Publick affairs it was not proper to move that matter in Congress, or even to mention it. The Situation of the Army being critical & publick business being pressing, the moveing that matter would have a tendency to Injure the Publick Service which we were fully satisfied you would not even wish to take place. Therefore we thought it best (all things being taken into consideration) to pass it over, not doubting that this line of conduct would meet your approbation. “I arrived in this City on the thirteenth of June last, have been as well as usual, ‘till within a few days, the heat having been very Intense has opperated much on me, but however hope to be able to endure ‘till the weather changes. “I have nothing of News to write you, which you will not learn from the papers or otherways.” John Sullivan to Nathaniel Peabody Dear Sir Schulskill Falls 26th 1780 I am Honored with your Favor of the 19th Inst. 1 Am Sorry you have received no Letters Lately from me [...] perswaded This Arose frpm your mentioning [...] were about to Set out for New Hampshire
