November 26, 1780 383 Several [...] Since after which I Directed two Letters to you at [New] Hampshire one of which I apprehend is Lodged in New York. Rivington has not Published it though am almost Confident it went by that Post. 2 The Reason [is] I Suppose That he found nothing in Favor of that [...] Through the whole of it. I mentioned in the fo[...] Those the Journals of Congress Left by you & requested to know how they were to be forwarded, as They are weighty in Every Sense of the word. My being Compelled to move out of the City for my Health has prevented my writing you as often as I otherwise Should have done. We have no news here but what is Contained in the Inclosed Gazette. Congress move on but Slowly in rectifying the Errors which Seem to Surround us. There Seems however a Disposition for attempting a reformation. As I write from This Place it is impossible to Inclose you a Journal of Congress by this opportunity. I wish you a good Journey to New Hampshire & a happy Sight of your Family & Friends. You may depend on hearing from me by Every opportunity. I have the Honor to be with the most [...] Sentiments of Esteem, Dr Sir your most obedt. Servant. Jno. Sullivan RC (NhHi: Peabody Papers). 1 Not found. 2 Only Sullivan’s October 8 letter to Peabody has been found. Although several of his intercepted letters were later published, none of his correspondence with Peabody was printed in James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette. John Sullivan to John Stark Dear Sir Philadelphia November 26th 1780 I am favored with your Letter of the 13 Instant & am Sorry for the Decline of your Health. I am happy to hear that the Late allowances made for the Army 1 are So pleasing & I am happy in assuring you that the Tide has Turned & now Sets Strongly in their Favor. I wish it may Continue. The allowance of half pay is undoubtedly Extended to General as well as other officers but no Provision is yet made for those whose want of Health Compells them to retire. 2 My advice to you is to Send a Request to Congress to retire for recovery of your Health which I will Take Care Shall answer Every Purpose. In it You will please to mention that whenever your Health will permit you will Chearfully return to the Field. 3 I am in haste Dear Sir Your assured Friend & most obedt Servant Jno Sullivan RC (NhHi: Stark Papers).
