384 November 26, 1780 1 See the following entry, note 2. 2 Congress explicitly declared on November 28 that general officers were entitled to the same half pay benefits for life that were recently extended to continental officers who served to the end of the war, but no mention was made of officers who retired for “want of health.” See JCC, 18:1100; and Sullivan to Stark, November 28, 1780. 3 Stark continued on active duty in the Continental Army until the war’s end. John Sullivan to George Washington Dear General Philadelphia Novemr 26th 1780 I am honored with your Excellencys Favor of the 20th Instant 1 — and feel myself under the greatest obligation for your obliging Condescension in Consenting to a Continuation of my Letters. Sensible of your Situation & Course of Business I feared to write Lest your Politeness Should Divert your attention from important matters & Lead you to answer Even where an Answer appeared unnecessary. But I now take the Liberty of assuring you that I Shall not Expect Frequent or Lengthy answers. When the Nature of my Letter requires & your Liesure will permit I Shall promise myself an answer & not otherwise. I Shall take the Liberty of Informing your Excellency from time to time of Those Points which Turn up in Congress & are interesting to the Publick in General or the Army in Particular & Shall Continue This without Expecting regular or Frequent answers. I am happy that the Late Regulations are Pleasing to your Excellency; 2 & with you Lament that They were not Sooner adopted: But I can with great Truth assure you that they are not now the offspring of Choice but necessity which perhaps has been Lately Painted in more Striking Colors & has been more realized than formerly. I am Sensible of the injurious Consequences of Sending out requisitions at so Late a Period 3 But I flatter myself That The States will yield a Chearful & Speedy Compliance as I have Seen An Act from Connecticut and Answers from other States which promise much toward a Speedy Supply. I will Endeavor to have it mentioned in Colo Palfreys Instructions to obtain materials in preference to ready made Cloathes for the reasons you mention. Colo. Palfrey is appointed Consul & Commercial agent. 4 The means you have been pleased to point out are Fortunately Adopted. Congress have in the most Decent & at the Same time in the most pressing Terms Solicited a Loan & I have Long Since without the knowledge of Congress Solicited the French Minister and Mr Marbois to favor the application which they have already Done by writing to the French Court warmly in favor of it. 5 I am fully Sensible of the Evils arising in the Cloathing Department,
