November 28, 1780 391 this to be the Fabric of a Speculator. There is more than a single Account that French Ships were off Charlestown Bar. I forgot to tell you that Mr. A is turned a french Surgeon and is anatomizing Govr. Hutchinson. I will give you a Sketch of the Skeliton if I can find Time by next post day. 3 A Foreigner who has travailed much and knows several Languages told me last Evening that he knew of Nothing that pleased him so much for the Occasion as the Quaker’s Farewell. JL RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 4:21-22. 1 Lovell enclosed a John Adams to Abigail letter of September 25, for which see ibid., 3:424-25, 4:51. 2 That is, Portia—Abigail Adams. 3 Lovell was referring to Adams’ “anatomizing” of former Massachusetts governor Thomas Hutchinson in a June 27, 1780, letter to President Huntington, which Abigail allowed to be published anonymously in the Independent Chronicle (Boston), January 4, 1781. It is in PCC, item 84, 2:145-51; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:794-98. James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir Philadelphia 28th Novemr 1780 I last wrote to your Excellency by General Scott. 1 We have since received dispatches from Holland 2 and have the satisfaction to find that Mr Adams has received his powers to execute the Trust reposed in Mr Lawrence now a Prisoner of war in England. The Claims of Ireland are still unsatisfied and they have passed an Act to prevent, by a severe duty, the Importation of unrefined Sugar from England; insisting that it shall be brought directly from the Islands into their ports; and claiming in every other Respect a perfect Equality with what they call their Sister Kingdom. The Courtiers in that parliament were averse to this Measure, but the Patriot Councilor Yelverton told them that his Argument should be concise. If they woud not agree to it, he tvoud put himself at the head of the Associators. This is a mode of reasoning which proves irresistible. By the way is it not the highest Insolence that while the Claims of Ireland are submitted to from [ . . . ] and preparations to enforce them by Arms; Americans are persecuted as Rebels for exercising the same Right? Holland continues to be rent into Faction. The Statholder, under british Influence, restrains some of the provinces from acting with vigour: While the Republican party in all seem resolved to support our Cause and are earnest for Close Alliance with Us. In England the Crown has acquired additional strength by the misconduct of the People headed by Lord George Gordon. It is said the late Elections have proved unfavourable to the Patriots, and that several of the most distinguished have lost their Seats in Parliament. But it is a general
