392 November 28, 1780 Opinion that the Convention of the Neutral powers will have a much greater Effect upon the British Cabinet than the Eloquence of Angells. Lord Shelbourn in their House of Peers declared that it was to be taken for granted that the united States woud be admitted to that Convention as an Independant people. Indeed All Accounts agree that the great Powers of Europe are altogether advocates for our Freedom, and the ministerial writers in late publications whine and complain that All mankind are Ingrates, and that they are left without an Ally to contend against France Spain & America; they might add Ireland to the Catalogue: for the Liberation of that Kingdom will eventually press them to the Quick, and tend to the Destruction of her Commerce as much as anyother Cause. In the mean time they have manifested a servility in offering Assistance to the Russian fleet, that Armed merely to humble their maritime power, which cannot fail to render them contemptible. With the same low Condescension they have endeavour[ed] to sooth and cajole the Courts of France and Spain and seem prepared to sacrifice every Sentiment of Glory, & every Prospect of national Advantage if America can be deserted and left to their Vengeance. These Courts however seem resolved to pursue the War, and France, in every Event, to maintain her Alliance. Besides the Ties of Honour, their future Safety, and a desire to recover the disgraces of the last War; both these Nations are become responsible for their Conduct to the Northern Powers: Nor can any thing Justify them to themselves or to Europe. While these States by vigorously persevering to establish their Freedom call down the Admiration and Respect of Mankind. From Intelligence out of our Capitol, it appears that the Enemy expressed great Chargin and disappointment on examining the new Arrangement for the Campaign which they intercepted. They had hoped, it seems, that we were to much broken to attempt a formidable Opposition. If the Views of Congress are seconded by the states, and the Army & Supplies which we have requested punctually produced: it is the general Opinion that the Enemy will relinquish the American War and think seriously of preserving their remaining Dominions. One decisive Effort will be of more Avail than languid & precarious operations for years. But these Observations need not be made to your Excellency who has long been impressed with the Necessity of vigorous Measures to expell the Enemy. The late Hurricane in the West Indies has produced such Horrible Devastations; that nothing equal to it has happened perhaps Since the Deluge. Only partial Accounts have yet come to hand: but the Tempest continuing many days with unabated Violence; it may be concluded that its Effects have been dreadful in the Islands both Windward & Leeward. It must prove a fatal Blow to Britain: but our Ally has a great Share in the Calamity. The Loss of Shipping and Lives must be prodigious.
