394 November 28, 1780 or in Bills of the new Emission. By this means every one would have it in his power to realize his money, in property of the full Value of hard money to obtain the new money to Answer this purpose every one would be induced to Exchange the old Bills for the new at 40 for one, which would in a short time, it is probable bring all the new money into Circulation and establish its Credit, the fund being ready And equal in Value to Gold and silver. The president of Congress has promised to send by this post, a Copy of a late Law passed in Connecticut, respecting a Cession of some part of the back Lands. 2 We have had nothing from Virginia or any other state on that Subject. The Eastern states are making the most Vigorous Exertions, And it is said there is not the least doubt of their Compleating their number of men by the first of February, and their Quota of Supplies of provisions and money will be furnished. I hope every State Will See the necessity of the like Exertions. Nothing is so likely to give us peace as a formidable Well Appointed Army, Well Supported and a proper Arrangement of our Finances. The loss of men our State has Sustained, to the southward, Occasions a greater deficiency in our Quota of Troops than We shall I am afraid be able to make up. We shall I suppose after the Addition of the new raised regiment want at least 1300 men, but Should We fall Short (all things Considered) We Shall not be justly lyable to blame, but if it is possible, our full Quota I hope Will be made up. Provisions we have plenty of, so that We Shall be able to Comply with what is required of us in that respect. I am much pleased to See your name in the Delegation to Congress. I hope it will be agreeable to you to Attend, and Wish you and Mr Johnson Coud immediately Come up. The Major I Suppose Cant Attend till the session is at an End. Mr. Platers time is out And my being here Alone will be to no purpose. The state will be unrepresented. 3 No news from the Northward for a long time nor any of Consequence from Europe. Wish the Account from the southward of the Enemys having left Virginia may be true. I write in great haste. My Compliments to the Gentlemen of the Senate And Am With usual respect and Esteem, Dear sir, Your most hble servt, John Hanson RC (MdHi: Carroll Papers). 1 That is, John Hall (1729-97) of the “Vineyard,” Anne Arundel Co., Md., who served almost continuously in the lower house of the Maryland assembly from 1762 to 1795. Bio. Diet, of Md. Legis., 1:386-88. 2 Although the Connecticut legislature had passed a resolution in October offering to cede its ungranted territory contested by Pennsylvania to the United States, there is no indication that Samuel Huntington sent ‘ ‘ a Copy of the late Law’ ’ to the states at this time. For the Connecticut resolution, which was not formally submitted to Congress until January 31, 1781, when it and similar acts from New York and Virginia were referred to a committee of seven, see^CC, 19:99-100; and Julian
