396 November 28, 1780 it is impossible they should have. Every little Trapstick of a Quarter master or Commissary or Forage-picker, who has spent the publick Money himself and either has bought Nothing to feed the Army or Transport, or has paid Nothing for what he has bought, gets in a Passion and swears at Congress all over the Country that they do not furnish Money and will not pay their Debts. He owes Nobody; Congress owes; though neither they, nor any of their Members have ever seen or heard of him. It is a curious Situation when every little peddling Scoundrel or broken Shopkeeper can make Congress a Debtour to all the Amount he can prostitute the publick Credit for. I long to see the States in earnest to have none but honest, respectable Officers of their own, and that none should be appointed in the Continental Staff, because Congress can never know them, except in the highest Branches of the Departments; and I wish how soon the States may feel the Length and Breadth of their Resources because there is the only Fork. Congress ought to have more Power or the States more Vigour and Attention. The Advices from Virginia are that the Enemy have embarked their Forces from Portsmouth, 2 but had not sailed the 19th inst. A report comes from Baltimore that when our Troops marched down Portsmouth, and a Number of Citizens went in through Curiosity, the Enemy stood up Nansemond River and landed to occupy the Isthmus so as to insulate them and cut off all Retreat. It is mentioned that near 5000 are thus taken in. The Enemy said to be about 3000. If the Ancient Dominion cannot refuse these, what are they worth? However the whole is private Intelligence; nothing official; and few believe any Thing of it. Many Circumstances make it probable that there is a French or Spanish Fleet or a Fleet combined of both, on the Southern Coast; but am afraid they have suffered in the Hurricane which has made such Havock in the West-Indies. If they have escaped this, they may be of effectual Service to us. I have received the Nomination and Election of Delegates. 3 Find that my Name is continued which I little expected. Several of the Gentlemen who have not been carried, could have attended much better. However as there are five, I cannot think of refusing. If I have any Reputation, it stands me in Hand to preserve it, and not shrink from Duty, for I have Nothing else left. If my Credit goes, I may safely say, I have literally Nothing. I hope to see your Excellency in a few Days, when I shall wish the Liberty of giving you a better Detail of Intelligence—both at Home and abroad. I have the Honour to be, your Excellency’s very humble, and most obedt Servant, WC Houston RC (NN: Livingston Papers).
