November 30, 1780 403 to occupy that House; and immediately repaired to my Duty in Congress. The Officer tho’ at Liberty, after the Caution, I had given him, to use his own Discretion, thought fit to follow and renew the Conversation; the purport of which, on my part, was no more than to recommend him to take Advice before he proceeded further: for he appeared to me to be ignorant of his Duty. Nothing then can be more untrue than that I offered him the Slightest Injury by word or Action. From a Complaint so destitute of Foundations, is it not to be suspected that this Attempt to execute a Process against Effects, of which neither the Officer nor any with him, appeard to have the least Knowledge, was calculated for the mischievous purpose of enciting disturbance and giving Affront? Permit me, Sir, to add, that in my Opinion the Reasons for protecting, in all Nations, the Persons, Houses & Effects of foreign Ambassadours apply with at least equal Force to the Members who constitute the general Government of the united States. Shall their Apartments be intruded into, their papers be exposed, and their Effects seized in a civil Case too with which they have no Connection? Shall they be stripped of every Accommodation, and disqualified from pursuing the great Duties of their Mission? Shall there be no Redress but thro’ a tedious Course of Law in which, at the Expence of their Independance, and of the Sovereignty represented in their persons, they must submit to be Suitors? It is easy to see that a Government thus constituted must be incompetent to the great Purposes of publick Safety. I have the Honour to be, with great Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s most Obedient humble Servant, Jas. Duane RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 James Duane had become embroiled in a legal dispute with a Pennsylvania deputy sheriff, when the sheriff attempted to search Duane’s residence for goods belonging to a debtor. Pennsylvania president Joseph Reed had written to Duane on November 30 after receiving a complaint from the deputy sheriff that “he has been molested in the service of an Execution on the Effects of one Bulkeley, by a delegate in Congress who upon enquiry he finds to be Mr. Duane.” Reed protested that the “Sheriff must have misunderstood the interference, as We cannot suppose Mr. Duane would think himself authorised to forbid an Officer of this state proceeding to execute process on the effects of another person.” Duane Papers, NHi. Despite Duane’s claims of congressional immunity in this letter, the Pennsylvania authorities remained determined to execute the seizure order. Duane later capitulated in the face of renewed efforts by Reed and the sheriff, for which see Duane to Reed, December 16, 1780. For the background to this case, see James Madison to Joseph Jones, October 10, 1780, note 5.
