406 November 30, 1780 might have communicated to Mr. A some Request for his Aid respecting your little Invoice. The Ariel is momently expected. There is not a Line from Mr. Dana public or private that I know of. We have reed, but a single one since he went and Mr. A never mentions his name in all his 86 Letters, but in one early concerning money matters. I do see his hand writing in one Copy now arrived, dated June 26th 2 so that he was then in Health as you may tell his charming Wife in Case she has no better Information. I am too pressed with Business to write much to you—Palfrey will go in 10 days. There has been much Manoeuvre you know, for a Resident instead of Secretary to Doct. F , and since you left us, for an Envoy extraordinary. The Cat is out. Only Hamilton stood in Nomination for Secy, to Doct F.; Pinckney being a Prisoner. Under a motion for a Secy, to the Commission, 3 Mr. Henry has been nominated, and no less a Personage than the former Mover of all the droll Efforts—Mr. Mathews. Mr. J A laments that young Laurens refused. He presses for a Consul; prays that no Frigate may ever again be under either Minister or Consul there but have orders from our Navy Boards, to be strictly obeyed. Our Distress for money is extreme. We can pay neither our civil officers, nor our Army nor our Loan Interest nor send a Brigade of Waggons out of this City when they are 3 days loaded, much less purchase Salt provisions which are daily at Sale under our Noses by the Marshal of the Admiralty, and which are essential for any Embarkation of Troops at critical Moments. The merchantile Plan of fixing the old Paper at 75 when it was 100 and upwards turns out to be a sterling Philadelphianism; for the majority of them went home to their Stores and put 25 per Cent on the hard money prices while the Dutchmen stick to the old Paper Depreciation or the Exchange. Adieu my Friend, J- L. RC (MHi: Gerry-Knight Collection). 1 Not identified. 2 That is, John Adams’ June 26 letter to Congress is in the hand of Francis Dana, for which see the preceding entry, note 2. 3 At this point Lovell inserted an asterisk, to which he keyed the following observation in the margin: “The Subject is now open for a large Discussion by the order for chusing a Secy, being postponed that the present State of our Commissn. at Versailles may be considered. We have only 2 letters from the Doctr—March 4 & May 31, this year.” The context of Lovell’s observation was the congressional decision on November 22 to appeal to the king of France for a loan of 25 million livres, at which time John Henry was nominated “for the office of secretary to the (.ministerplenipotentiary of the United States') Embassy at the Court of Versailles.” The substitution of “Embassy” for “minister plenipotentiary of the United States” in Secretary Thomson’s journal involved more than verbal quibbling, of course, for at stake was the status of both the new appointee and the minister to France, Benjamin Franklin. The idea of soliciting a loan from France was an attractive one, but the
