408 December 1, 1780 remains of his little army under Lord Rawdon were retreating to the Same place & our forces in pursuit of them were not in a Situation to promise certain expectation of Cutting off their retreat. I have the Honour to be, with Esteem & Respect, your humble Servant, Sam. Huntington RC (Ct: Jonathan Trumbull Papers). 1 Although receipt of Lawrence’s letter is not recorded in the journals, the Board of Treasury’s December 4 report on it is in PCC, item 136, 4:740-41. For Congress’ acceptance of Lawrence’s request to resign as commissioner of the Continental Loan Office in Connecticut, the subject of the report, see Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, December 15, 1780. 2 Lawrence was also the treasurer of Connecticut, in which capacity Huntington was addressing him here. John Sullivan to Meshech Weare Dear Sir Philadelphia Decemr 3rd 1780 Since I Last wrote you nothing has turned up worth your notice except General Leslie’s having evacuated Virginia and was Seen going off by Water; 1 I am apprehensive he is gone to Join Lord Cornwallis at Carolina. Congress are employed in making new arrangements and rectifying Errors. 2 Party Spirit is kept Down with some Difficulty. Vermont affair Sleeps at Present; I apprehend it will revive in a Short Time. The merchants of Philadelphia have given The most Striking Proofs of their Patriotism; when the Exchange took a Sudden Rise from 75 to 125 They were called upon by the assembly & Entered into an association to fix the Exchange at 75 & published it in the Gazette. This Satisfied the assembly and Congress for a Season. They went Home, Doubled the Specie prices of their Articles and receive 75 paper Dollars for one Silver one & of Course receive near Double the value for their Articles which they would have done had Congress and the assembly been Silent upon the Subject. 3 I hope this kind of Patriotism will not extend itself to New Hampshire. I have the honor to be with the most perfect Esteem Dr Sr Your most obedient Servant, Jno Sullivan RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). 1 News of the British withdrawal from Virginia arrived in a letter from Thomas Jefferson of November 26, which was read in Congress on December 4. See JCC, 18:1120; and Samuel Huntington to Washington, December 4, 1780, note 1. 2 Sullivan was himself deeply involved in “rectifying Errors” in the Continental financial system at this time, for which see Sullivan’s Committee Notes, November 7-23, 1780. 3 See William Churchill Houston to William Livingston, November 21; and James Madison to Joseph Jones, November 28, 1780.
