410 December!, 1780 Samuel Huntington to Arthur Lee Sir, Philada December 4. 1780 I do myself the Pleasure to transmit you the enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress of the first Instant, by which you will be informed, that they approve of your retaining the Picture of his most Christian Majesty which was presented to you from that Monarch That there is no Charge against you before Congress properly supported, and you may be assured, your recall was not intended to fix any kind of Censure on your Character or Conduct abroad. The same Allowance is to be made to your Secretary as was made to Mr Stockton, Secretary to your Brother the Honble Wm. Lee. The other Articles in your Account, with the Vouchers, are referred to the Board of Treasury for Liquidation. 1 I am Sir, with Sentiments of Esteem & respect, your most obedient & most humble Servant, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 See JCC, 18:1114-15. The issue of Samuel Stockton’s allowance had been settled on October 14, for which see ibid., pp. 926-27. Samuel Huntington to the States Sir, Circular. Philada December 4. 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, the Copy of an Act of Congress of the 30th Ulto, recommending to the several States immediately to inform the Commissary General (Coll. Ephraim Blaine) or the Deputy Commissary, that is, when he acts to the Southward, of the Names of the principal Agent or Commissioner in the respective States for supplying the Army, and to oblige them to give Information from Time to Time to the Commissary General, or his Deputy with the southern Army, as the Case may be, of their Prospects of complying with the requisitions made to them or the respective States. 1 The live Stock to be furnished by the several States is to be delivered to such Store keepers within each State, at such Times and in such Quantities as the Commissary General or Deputy Commissary shall direct, under the regulations of Congress of the 15th of July last. I have the Honor to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem & respect, your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servant. S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 See JCC, 18:1109-11. President Huntington also sent a copy of these resolves
