412 December 4, 1780 I rejoice at the appointment of yr Brother and hope he will come forward. Gates has been unfortunate. Green has gone to take the Command from him. Arnold has proved himself what I ever knew him. I Inclose you the paper which contains all the news. I beg you to present my most respectful to Mrs Langdon; and that you will believe me to be with the most perfect Esteem, Dear Sir, your most obedient Servt. Jno. Sullivan P.S. The French Embassador wants a few Large Sheets of the American Glass. I wish you will be kind Enough to forward a few of them for which I will See you reimbursed. J S RC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). 1 John Langdon’s November 13 letter to Sullivan is in Sullivan, Papers (Hammond), 3:199-200. 2 Not found. 3 Sullivan was responding to a query from Langdon about funds for the 74-gun ship of the line America under construction under Langdon’s supervision at Portsmouth, N.H. He also wrote to Langdon again on this subject, apparently just five days later, as follows: “I have often Conversed with the Board of Admiralty who after Devising Every Method for Supplying Money for finishing the 74 and being Disappointed in all have recommended to Congress the Sale of the Ship as the only way left to Save the Expence already Incurred. This may possibly Save our money but not our Credit. What will be done in Consequence of their Recommendations I cannot Say. “I think we read in John Bunyan or Some of the good old Books ‘That no man Buildeth an House but he first Sitteth Down & counteth the Cost.’ Quere whether this rule Extends to the Building of Ships. Doubtless if you were to Consult a Lawyer upon this Point he would to Display his knowledge in the oriental Languages answer you in these words ‘ubi eadem ratio ibi idem Jus,’ but I have an Aversion to this kind of reasoning because it carries a reflection against that Honorable Body of which I am a Member. I would rather recommend Consulting a Casuist who may perhaps find Some Salve for it.” This letter, which is in the private collection of Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., is dated only “Philadelphia 9th 1780.” The America, which was destined to remain on the stocks nearly two more years, was ultimately given to the French government just as it was nearing completion. JCC, 23:543. John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee My Dear sir Philadelphia Deer 5h 1780 I am honored with yours of the 1st Instant by the post. We have no news here, but a late Expedition of Major Talmadge Against Fort St George on Long Island, the Success of which you have An Account of in the papers. 1 I am much obliged to your Excellency for the Attention you pay to the supplying us with money—and hope you will have it in your power to Send me Eight or ten thousand Dollars by the next post.
