Decembers, 1780 413 I have not by me to pay One Weeks Board, you will be pleased to inclose my part by its Self. Mr Henry left Philadelphia Monday was a week, 2 And is by this time I suppose Arrived at Annapolis. Mr. Plater talks of Setting out this Week on his return home but I suppose he writes you by this post. Your Carriage is Compleatly finished. And the sooner you Send for it the better. My Compliments to Mrs Lee And Am with much respect, Dear sir Your Excellencys most hble Servt, John Hanson RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 For Congress’ commendation of Maj. Benjamin Tallmadge for his capture of the garrison at Fort St. George on November 23, see Samuel Huntington to Washington, December 9, 1780, note 2. 2 That is, Monday November 27. James Lovell to Samuel Holten Dear Sir Deer. 5 1780. Your favor of Nov. 16th with a Gazette reached me yesterday. You suffered so much in your mind & Body when here that I will not send you any of the ill pictures which with various Signatures come daily on to our Table. I hope you will find much Satisfaction in the short Letter from Genl. Gates. Wemyss was a very valuable officer to the Enemy. You may amuse yourself also as one of the medical Class by reading the Epistle of Rush to Shippen in which you will find the Writer has relieved himself a little upon me. 1 Shenstone’s Benevolence made him wish that he could afford to have his Pockets picked frequently. I feel a portion of his Spirit operating upon me at this Time; When I see poor Rush swelled near unto Bursting. I cannot doubt but that he finds some Relief by throwing about his Slaver and Froth, therefore when it falls upon my Cloaths I slight the Injury because he finds so much Ease in his terrible Case. I have said to some of you my Friends last Week that Mr. Adams had in a masterly & Independent stile defended the Resolves of March 18 against the opinions of Count de Vergennes. 2 He showed that the true value of our Paper was its current Rate. That the public Faith which is said to be broken is a mutual Contract between the public and the Individuals who compose it, that either may break it, the Public by not paying the promisory Note when it has had an equivalent or the Individual by not giving that Equivalent when he takes the Note. That Government will wrong the Public by paying off Notes, current at 40 for 1, by 40 hard for 40 paper as much as if they paid 40 hard for 1 paper when the Emission was current at par. He says no Distinction can be made between Frenchmen & other
