Decembers, 1780 415 By Letters from Spain reed, yesterday I find that our Friend Jos. Gardoqui will be here to succeed Don Miralles. 2 Spain is slow towards Alliance, well disposed as to money for our Use, but, be assured, she wants it herself there, She may help us nearer home. She was upon a Scheme of getting some in France which Necker found out & stopped by his Influence. 3 I shall not be able to hint these Things to Mr. Gerry. In short, I believe I shall soon be obliged to omit taking Pen in hand except on Committees; I shall otherwise neither serve the public nor my friends with Propriety. Your Friend & humb Servt. J L [P. S. ] Some Constitutions of Bodies politic may be supposed to be so good in themselves that, like some human Frames, they may not want a skilful Physician to watch them. They may only now & then stand in need of an half bred Apothecary and his assistant, with their Ivory Tube. RC (MHi: Warren-Adams Papers). 1 These “Salaries” (actually “given” on September 13 and 25 not 23), were those of “officers on the civil list,” which included Warren as a commissioner of the Eastern Navy Board. See JCC, 18:822-23, 854, 1055-56, 1119. 2 That Don Diego Gardoqui would be the new Spanish agent in the United States was reported by William Carmichael in an August 22, 1780, letter to the Committee for Foreign Affairs. Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:38-41. Congress also received simultaneously letters from Carmichael of September 6 and 9, and from John Jay of September 16, 1780. See ibid., pp. 51-54, 59; and JCC, 18:1120. 3 Lovell wrote in the margin beside this paragraph: “No printing.” James Madison to Joseph Jones Dear Sir. Philada. Deer. 5th. 1780 I had yours of the 25th Ulto. by yesterdays post. 1 I congratulate you on the deliverance of our Country from the distresses of actual invasion. If any unusual forbearance has been shewn by the British Commanders, it has proceeded rather I presume from a possibility that they may some time or other in the course of the war repossess what they have now abandoned than from a real disposition to spare. The proceedings of the Enemy to the Southward prove that no general change of system has taken place in their military policy. We had letters yesterday from Mr. Jay & Mr. Carmichael as late as the 4 & 9th of September. 2 Mr. Jay informs us that it is absolutely necessary to cease drawing bills on him; that 150,000 d’rs. to be repd. in three years with some aid in Cloathing &c is all that the Court will advan[ce] for us. The general tenor of the letters is that our affairs there make little progress, that the Court is rather backward, that the navigation of the Mississippi is likely to prove a very serious
