Decembers, 1780 419 Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council Gentlemen [December 5, 1780] 1 Your Letter of the 22d last relative to the Cattle at the Head of Elk did not come to our Hands ’till the 2d inst. & yesterday we laid it before the Congress—they have refered it to the Board of War with Directions to take immediate Order. 2 We have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect, Gentlemen, Yr most obt. & very Hble Servts. Geo. Plater John Hanson RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Plater and signed by Plater and Hanson. 1 The Council’s “letter of the 22d last” had been laid before Congress “yesterday,” December 4, 1780. See JCC, 18:1116. 2 The Council’s letter brings into relief one of several factors that contributed to the breakdown of the state supply system. In this instance the Council had responded to Congress’ urgent appeal of September 21 for 500 head of cattle by ordering the Maryland commissaries to procure whatever cattle were available and to drive them to the Head of Elk, the Continental receiving depot in Maryland designated by the commander-in-chief. There, however, Continental agents “refused to receive and forward the Cattle to the Army alledging it to be no part of the Business of their respective Departments.” Having no money, Maryland officials were then compelled to sell some of the cattle “to Buy provision to support and keep the rest alive.” The Council complained bitterly of the “Evils” of a system under which the states complied with congressional requests only to have “our Designs frustrated ... by the Neglect of those whose peculiar Province it is to convey Supplies to the Camp.” It is not known what action the Board of War may have taken. See Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council, September 22, 1780; PCC, item 70, fols. 445-48; and Md. Archives, 45:221. George Plater to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia Deer. 5th 1780 The enclosed was this Day put into my Hand which I have now the Honor to forward to your Excellency. 1 My Time being this Day expired which by the Constitution I cou’d sit in Congress, I am preparing to get away & hope soon to have the Pleasure of seeing you in Annapolis. I wish some of the new appointed Members wou’d come forward to keep up a Representa tion. 2 Mrs. Plater offers her Compliments to your Lady & I am with the highest Respect, Dear Sir, Yr most obt Servt. Geo. Plater RC (MdHi: Revolution Collection). 1 Not found. 2 For the state of the Maryland delegation at this time, see John Hanson to Charles Carroll of Carrollton, November 28, 1780, note 3.
