422 December 6, 1780 1 See Huntington to Nathanael Greene, this date, note 2. 2 These three resolves are in JCC, 18:1118. Huntington also sent a copy of the third of these with a brief covering letter to Simeon DeWitt of December 13. PCC, item 15, fol. 180. 3 Huntington also wrote letters this day to Dr. David Jackson notifying him that Congress had accepted his resignation “agreable to your request, and to Pres. Joseph Reed informing him that Richard Bache and Thomas Smith had been appointed “to endorse the Bills that shall be emitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania pursuant to the resolution of Congress of the 18th of March last. See PCC, item 15, fols. 176-77; and JCC, 18:1119-21. James Duane to George Washington My dear General. Confidential Philadelphia 9th December 1780. I shou’d not so long have restrained the Expressions of a Heart flowing with the most affectionate and respectful Attachment if Care had not been taken to communicate our Intelligence officially. In the mean time I have never found it so necessary to devote my Attention to the publick business. Amidst pressing distresses it will give your Excellency pleasure to be assured that Congress have deliberated with unanimity, and decided with firmness; and that every thing within their power is nearly accomplished for vigorous Efforts in the Course of the next year. If the States will draw forth their Resources: If our Ally will seriously cooperate by assuming a naval Superiority in the American Sea: If we are seasonably furnished with the Cloathing, Arms and Ammunition which we have reason to expect; and obtain the Aid of money which we have once more attempted to borrow: If these Circumstances in any tolerable degree Combine, your Excellency will at last see a prospect, under the divine blessing of finishing the war with Glory. But it is obvious that we have many difficulties to encounter! Government instead of possessing the Confidence and the Dignity necessary to enforce it’s Councils, is surrounded by clamorous Creditors and insidious Speculators, and what is worse the Intemperance of our Friends conspires with the malice of our Enemies to render it odious. Congress may err: they are not exempt from State and personal prejudices; they are liable to be deceived; but nothing is more certain than that in the common Cause their Intentions are pure, their Zeal, their Cares, their pains, unbounded; and the Time will come, when if their measures are not admired they will be approved. Indeed, Sir, an honest and disinterested Patriot requires uncommon Fortitude to render himself responsible in an hour of such intollerable Licenciousness: those who place their Happiness in Reputation retire from a Theatre where, while they are torturd by publick distresses, they are in danger of disgrace! The Intreagues of Speculators are more and more alarming. Our paper
