December 9, 1780 423 money lately suffered a Convulsion, without any apparent Cause, which threatned its total dissolution. Not contented with the infinite Evils which they have entailed on their Country; they have practiced their Arts on the Cabinet of France; and with such Success that one of our ministers received a formal Intimation that the Chevalier de la Luzerne woud be instructed to remonstrate against the act of the 18h of March as a violation of publick faith, 1 and an Injury to the trading part of that nation which ought to be repaired. Mr. Adams has acquired Applause by a Memorial to Count de Vergennes on this Subject full of Good Sence and dignity. The Necessity and the Justice of that memorable System are vindicated by Reasons and Facts which force Conviction. The Capital Figure which the french factors made in drawing on the Depreciation and their avarice in striving to exact Specie for the nominal Sums of the Bills; when it is notorious that they raised the price of their Commodities in proportion to the current Exchange are exposed; and it is demonstrated that instead of suffering they greatly profited by that national Calamity. Nor is the proper Inference neglected that a Government capable, in a free Country, of executing a Plan so disgusting to the self interested, must possess unlimited Confidence, and be established on the firmest Basis. I am perswaded that this Seasonable Representation will remove every prejudice, and prevent the Effects of an Attempt big with Ruin! Another great difficulty which embarrasses us is the absolute Dependance which we are compelled to place on the Exertions of the States individually. A failure in one may draw upon us insupportable distress. If the Supplies of provisions shoud be punctually furnished the transportation alone is an Expence of such magnitude that I never think of it but with anxiety, especially when we consider how deeply pecuniary Taxes are anticipated by Certificates in the hands of the Farmers. There is a remedy but whether we have a sufficient degree of publick Spirit to apply it can only be known by Experiment. Why shoud not the opulent contribute, the whole or a large proportion of their plate? Why shoud not the Farmer break in upon his Capital if his annual produce is incompetent. Nothing is clearer than that this woud be the truest CEconomy as a foundation woud be laid to terminate the war by a great and decisive effort. These are Resourses in the power of every Legislature, and I shall think them inexcuseable if, seeing the necessity to be so urgent, they shrink from the Burthen. A Duty on Imports, Exports and prizes will be strongly recommended by Congress, and if approved by the States, it must produce a considerable Revenue. 2 We have made an Estimate of the national Expence for a year from next January. Except the Quarter master’s branch it is tolerably accurate. I shoud be happy if our means to defray it were certain and adequate: but this is not to be relied on, unless we are effectually
