424 December 9, 1780 roused by a Sense of our common danger, and the necessity of concluding with Glory and Expedition a war of devastation. Every liberal hand must be opened; every patriotic heart must be animated, every publick and private effort must be exerted to strengthen and support our Army, to give weight to our national Councils, and secure them obedience at home and reputation abroad. Without the first the Courage, Perseverance and military Accomplishments of our General must be frustrated: without the last it woud be madness to hope for Credit, Alliance or Respect from foreign Powers. After a studied Contempt of the Power of our Enemy which has marked the progress of our Contest, too great a dependance on foreign Succour claims the Rank in our political Errors. I speak of the publick opinion, exempting Congress as I ought from a share in this folly. Charmed with a Revolution so friendly to the Rights of human nature, and so humbling to the Insolence of Brittain, the People were too apt to imagine that the Coffers of Europe woud be emptied into our Lap without reserve. But to say nothing of the Dutch experience has shewn that the Spaniards on whom we principally relied, are not to be moved by disinterested Considerations. That Cabinet does not imitate the French in Liberality. They view the Contiguity of those States to the Sourse of their Treasures, and their rising greatness, with a sufficient degree of Jealousy. They are cautious of our Alliance unless they can acquire solid advantages. They are courted by England and tempted by offers which tho’ they cannot accept without sacrificing their Honour, their family compact, and the Esteem of the Northern powers; they yet seem to countenance as a mean to lead us to concessions of which we cannot think without Reluctance. On no other principle are Cumberland’s residence at Madrid, or the dilatoriness which has accompanied the Treaty to be reconciled. With respect to a Loan, if their Inclination was ever so prompt, it appears to me either that their Funds are not productive; or that their CEconomy is even worse than our own. They might however interpose their Responsibility as they have already done for the bills which we have drawn, and for the Cloathing which they have supplied, and it woud afford us essential Relief. Those Hints will open another Field of Embarrassment, the Extent of which your Excellency will fully perceive. I shall only add to the Catalogue that we have advice that Sir Henry Clinton has written to his Court for a strong Reinforcement, or leave to retire from his command; that he has received an Approbation of his Conduct in flatering Terms, and a promise of Support, and that orders are accordingly issued for raising a Regiment of Cavalry and nine of Infantry. But while we are called upon to examine our own Circumstances with Candour least we shoud be deceived by a false Estimate, our Enemies, it is evident, do not repose on a bed of Roses. They continue
