December 9, 1780 425 to be disturbed by the Spirit of Independance which pervades Ireland. The Commons of that Kingdom lately hesitated to agree to a duty, amounting to a prohibition, on raw Sugars from England. Yelverton their patriot declared that the Irish Trade shoud in all respects be upon a perfect equality with the British. He rejected the Idea of a disparity between the Sister Kingdoms with Contempt; and threatned the Courtiers that if they persisted in their opposition he woud put himself at the Head of the Associators and establish the Freedom of Commerce by Arms. This is an Argument which carries conviction. Strange that in Ireland it shoud be consistent with Loyalty and in America be branded with the Appellation of Rebellion, and under that absurd Idea serve to colour over every Species of Inhumanity and Vengeance! 3 In the West Indies from the late destructive Hurricane, and on the Ocean by a train of capital losses, the Enemy have sufferd most severely and in the tenderest point, their Trade, the Sourse of their Wealth and Credit! Their internal dissentions, which instead of being extinguished are only smotherd by the Vigour which the temerity of Gordon threw into the scale of their Government, is a malady which hangs heavy upon their Administration. The Convention of the neutral maritime powers which has aimed a fatal blow at the Sovereignty of the british flag and the imminent danger of their being involved in a war with Russia, Denmark, Sweden and Holland if they persist in a Claim so odious, and of drawing down the Resentment of their own subjects and universal Contempt if they extinguish it: The late Insult offered them by Portugal in shutting their ports against their Ships of War and Prizes: The Impracticability of their raising more Troops in Germany: The favourable Light in which our Independance is viewed throughout Europe; and the evident Satisfaction it gives even the princes on whom they most relied to see the british Dominion, Commerce and naval Strength circumscribed: Their disappointment in not being able by the most disgraceful Sacrifices to detatch Spain from the War: Their failure in Ways and means the present year: the immensity of their national debt and current Expenditures: All those Circumstances combined with the necessity of renewing their Preparations to oppose the belligerent powers at the very moment they looked for submission from America are more than sufficient to form a Contrast between us and our Enemies by no means to our disadvantage; Nor does it seem presumptuous to think that if we endeavour to deserve the Blessing; Peace, Liberty and Independance must before long crown our Wishes. I have drawn this Letter to an immoderate Length: ascribe it to a desire of possessing you of my own View of our publick Affairs as far as I am at Liberty. I will only add that the Visit of the French Noblemen has given
