December 10, 1780 427 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 The enclosed extract was from an October 17 letter of Jonathan Williams to the Committee for Foreign Affairs (PCC, item 90, fols. 611-14), which was read in Congress on Monday December 11. JCC, 18:1141. 2 This day Huntington also wrote a second letter to Washington, enclosing Congress’ resolution of December 6 commending Maj. Benjamin Tallmadge, manager of Washington’s secret service operations, for his successful raid against Fort St. George at Mastic, Long Island, on November 21-23. JCC, 18:1116, 1122; and Washington Papers, DLC. Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Dear Sir Philadelphia Decmr. 10th. 1780 I have the pleasure to inform your Excellency, that the b[e]arer of this carrys the blank bills of Exchange and One Hundred & Thirty Thousand dollars to be emitted persuant to the resolution of Congress of the 18th of March last, to be delivered to the keeper of the Continental loan office in the state of Rhode Island. I will not com ment on the difficultys that hath attended this business. 1 Inclosed is a resolution of Congress appointing the Hone. Jonathan Arnold and Joseph Clark Esqr. or Either of them to be sighners of the said New Bills on the part of the United States. 2 I hope it will be agreable. Colo. Palfrey late Paymaster Genl, to the Army sails on Tuesday next for France, to take upon himself his Consulship in that Kingdom agreable to his appointment. 3 Congress hath for a considerable time past been principally im- ployed in foreign affairs which are Called secret J It appears by a Cork paper of the 6th of Octr. last that the Hone Henry Lawrens was Commited to the Tower of London on suspicion of High Treason by the High Constable in Consequence of a Warrant Signed by Lords North, Stormont & Germaine. The want of Money for publick use and the distress ariseing from that source is beyound the power of my pen to discribe And the prospect of releif appears small. Notwithstanding the Loan offices are kept open and Certificates given for a Silver dollar with Interest untill paid, upon the recept of Forty Continental dollars, yet so low is publick credit that not one farthing is receivd, in any of the Middle States. From which I think there is little prospect that our state can receive any relief on account of any former advancements of money for the use of the United States. You will plese to pardon me for once more mentioning the Necessity there is of sending to your Delegates in Congress the Exact amount of the Moneys advanced to Colo. Bowen D QM Genl. As it doth not appear to me there is the least probability of obtaining that sum any other way then from the four tenths of
