December 11, 1780 429 2 Sullivan’s enclosure, a lengthy description of the history, geography, political system, and economic prospects of New Hampshire, is also in the Miscellaneous Bound Collection at MHi. It has been printed in Sullivan, Papers (Hammond), 3:229-39, from a slightly variant text held by the Henry E. Huntington Library. Similar queries sent by Marbois to Thomas Jefferson on February 5 resulted in the latter’s famous Notes on the State of Virginia, for which see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 5:58-59, 6:141-42. Theodorick Bland to St. George Tucker Dear Tucker Philadephia Deer. 11th 1780 Even the neglect of my Friends—the disparity between the Leisure they enjoy and that which I have and the Business of public events to fill up a page shall not prevent my continuing to give them some tokens of my remembrance of them—be it long—or be it short, and at this moment I do not know how long this will be. Well the Philistines have been upon you and you are rid of them. I congratulate you. Does there now need any Rhetoric to convince our Countrymen that the best thing they can do is to oppose their Enemy at a distance from them—and at the same time to make use of the respite they have to arrange and Organize their Militia, to repell them when attacked at home? Cannot this Maxim be inculcated into all ranks of Men that weakness is a temptation for strength to exercise itself upon—shall we ever be found unguarded, and will no experience teach us to be armed, ie to have a Competent number of men in the field during the War—Sat Verbum. The Confederacy of the neutral Maritime Powers is at length Compleat. Portugal has at last acceeded to it. Catharine of Russia has astonishd all Europe with this stroke of Policy—by which she has put a Bridle on the ungoverned ambition of Britian to be the lord of the Ocean, and checked the hasty Strides of her Rival Power to Lord it over that Element. Heaven itself whose dicisions are always unerring seems to have acceeded to this League, by Cutting at so critical a Juncture the Sinews of these two nations in the storm it has pourd forth on their W.I. Islands. These great events may possibly all turn to the advantage of this rising republic, let us not be supine, and unprepared to avail ourselves of them, let peace whenever it comes find us firmly confederated, and with a powerfull force in the field—let all lesser considerations of triffling temporary advantages give way to the great public Good. You Mentiond in yours to me some time ago an account of Mr. Banisters against Mr. Randolphs Estate. If I can find it among my Papers I will send it with an order for payment—if not—it can easily be made out again & proved, and My Father can give the Order—which Mr. Ozborne will execute or enable you to do it. We have here at Present three or four or five noblemen of the first distinction from the french Army in Rhode
