430 December 11, 1780 Island—Viz the Marquis de la Fayette, the Viscompte de Noailles, the Count de Deux Ponts, the Count de Damas, & the Baron de Montesquieu, Gr.-Son to the famous writer of the Spirit of Laws, besides a Majr. Genl. Chattelux a Man of Science in the Belles Lettres, & of great Military Consideration 1 —the Court of America begins to shine. Tell Fanny that unless she writes to one of us soon I will disclaim her—tell her talking of writing will no longer do—tis a stale trick. Tell her however I love her as well as ever & that the latter part of this letter being in her way is principally for her. Give my love to the Boys & Mr. Hearne & now for bed it being past eleven o Clock. God Bless you all. Do not let the post come empty handed as he has been accustomd of late to do. Yrs. affecty, Theok. Bland [P.5. ] Madame will give you the Tittle Tattle of the Place in her next which is on the Stockes but not finished. RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 In addition to Lafayette and the well known chevalier de Chastellux, these French noblemen consisted of Louis-Marie, vicomte de Noailles (Lafayette s brother-in- law); Guillaume, comte de Deux-Ponts; Joseph-Fran?ois-Louis-Charles-Cesar, comte de Damas (aide-de-camp to Rochambeau); and Charles-Louis de Secondat, baron de Montesquieu (aide-de-camp to Chastellux). John Hanson to Charles Carroll of Carrollton Dear sir Philadelphia Deer. 11th 1780 Your favour by the last post, I am much obliged to you for. I am very Sorry to be informed, that the principal object of the meeting of the General Assembly has not yet been taken into Consideration, I mean that of procuring Men and Supplies for the Army; yet from the good Opinion I entertain of the present leading Members of each House, I flatter my self every thing of importance Will be Attended to, before you rise. The Trustees having protested our Bills Will be favourable to the Veiws of those Who are for Confiscation. Immediately on the receipt of your letter, Which was late this afternoon, I went to Mr. Morris’s to make the enquiry you desired me, but Mr. Morris was too Ill to be Spoke With, Which prevents my giving you the information you Want, at present. Advices from Spain and France of the 25th September, and 15th October say, 1 that Genl Clinton had requested to be recalled, unless a reinforcement of 10,000 men, was immediately Sent him that a vessel had Sailed from England, With despatches Containing assurances, that the King entirely Approved of His Conduct—that he Should be Aided With all the Supplies in their power, And that orders were given for raising Nine Regiments of foot, And one of
