December 11, 1780 431 Horse, to be Sent out Early in the spring. That nine Sail of the line and a number of Transports, With 4000 Troops, would Sail from Brest in a day or two, destined to reinforce Admiral Ternay. The King of Spain is much pleased With the Resolution of Congress, permitting the Exportation of flour for the use of His fleets and Armies, in the West Indies, and desired that his thanks might be Conveyed to Congress, for Such a proof of their friendly disposition, And the Minister gave the strongest Assurances, that his majesty Would never Consent to a pacification With England which did not include the Interest of America. Measures for Sending Commissioners from G B to treat with Congress, is under Consideration of the privy Council, And it is thought would be adopted. Mr. Cumbaland Still remains at Madrid—the Abbe Hussey, his Coadjutor has received A Pastport to go to Lisbon, and from thence to London, And return With the Ultimatum of that Court. (Is it not Something Misterious that a Secretary to Lord George Germain one of the King of G B Ministers Should be permited to reside at the Court of His most Christian Majesty in time of war?). England hath not yet Compleated her last years Loan. All the powers will find it difficult to procure money to Carry on the War. France hath allready begun to Tax, and it is probable must Continue to do so. The great Neutral powers of Europe Seem to regard the present War, as an Event favourable to the Augmentation of their Commerce, and Will probably do so untill one or other of the Contending parties, appear to have a decided Superiority. Portugal it is Said, Seems better disposed to the Allies than heretofore. The Combined fleet at Cadiz, Consists of 45 Sail of the line besides frigates &c—the Count DEstaing Commands the french part of the Fleet, and the Whole was ready to put to Sea. Mr.Laurence was taken on his passage to Holland and Conveyed to London, And is Committed to the Tower on a Charge of High Treason. The Main Army is gone into Winter Quarters. My Compliments to Mr Carroll and the Ladies, And Am with the greatest regard Dr sir Your most hble Servt, John Hanson [P.^. ] It would give me great pleasure to see you here. RC (MdHi: Carroll Papers). 1 The advice from Spain was William Carmichael’s letter of September 25 which was read in Congress on December 9, 1780. See JCC, 18:1132; PCC, item 88, fols. 91-98; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:69-72. The intelligence of “15th October” from France regarding Sir Henry Clinton’s demand for 10,000 reinforcements has not been identified, but for an extract from an October 17 letter of an Arthur Lee correspondent containing the same information, which the committee on the southern department sent to Nathanael Greene, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:236n.l. See also Committee of Congress to Greene, December 12, 1780, note 1.
