432 December 11, 1780 John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee My Dear sir Philadelphia Deer 11th 1780 I am favoured with your two letters by the last post. You desire me to pay the money inclosed to the Coachmaker, but none was inclosed. Public Bills are now Selling at 60 and 65, that is one Dollar in Bills for Sixty Continental. Private Bills Sell Something higher. I have not Consulted the Coachmaker whether Bills will Suit him— but if they do not, they may be turned into Cash. Shall have the Crest painted on your Carriage, Agreeable to the impression you inclosed. I have not Seen Any Horses for Sale That I think would Suit you. A pair of Elegant Horses would be Cheap indeed at £5000 and wish I could light of a pair for you, at that price or higher. I am Sorry to hear, that the principal end of the assemblys being Called together, has not yet been under their Consideration, I mean the raising men And Supplies for the Army, Yet from the good Opinion I have of the present leading members, I flatter myself, that all matters of importance will be Attended to before they rise. Advices from France and Spain of the 25th Sep., and 15th October, Say that General Clinton had requested to be recalled, unless a reinforcement of 10000 men was immediately Sent him—in Consequence of which, a vessel had Sailed from England with despatches, Containing assurances, that the King entirely Approved of his Conduct, and that he Should be Aided with Supplies to the utmost of their power, and that orders were given for the raising Nine Regiments of foot and one of Horse to be Sent out Early in the Spring. That nine Sail of the line and a number of Transports with 4000 Troops, would Sail from Brest in a day or two, to reinforce Admiral Ternay. The Sending Commissioners from G.B. to treat with Congress, is under Consideration of the Privy Council, and it was thought would be adopted. Mr. Cumberland Still remains at Madrid, but his Coadjutor the Abbe Hussey, has received a pastport to go to Lisbon, and from thence to London, And returns with the ultimatum of that Court. (Is it not Something Misterious, that a Secretary to Lord George Germain A minister of the Court of G.B. Should be permitted to reside at the Spanish Court in time of war?) The great Neutral Powers of Europe, seems to regard the present war, as an Event favourable to the Augmentation of their Commerce And will probably do so, untill one or other of the Contending parties, appear to have a decided supremacy. The Combined Fleet at Cadiz, Consists of 45 Sail of the line, besides frigates &c, the Count D Estaing Commands the French part of the fleet, and the whole was ready to put to Sea. Mr. Laurence on his passage to Holland is taken and Carried to London and is Committed to the Tower on a Charge of high Treason.
