December 11, 1780 433 I hope you will have it in your power to send me 10000 Dollars by the next post, my Finances are lowe indeed. With every Sentiment of Esteem, I am, Dear sir, Your Excellencys most hble Servant, John Hanson RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). Samuel Huntington to Joseph Clarke and Jonathan Arnold Sir, Philada December 11. 1780 By the enclosed resolve you will be informed that Congress have been pleased to appoint you and Mr Jonathan Arnold Commissioners on the Part of the United States, either of you to endorse the Bills that shall be emitted by the State of Rhode Island pursuant to the resolution of Congress of the 18th of March last. 1 I am Sir &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). Addressed: “Mr. Joseph Clarke. The like to Mr Arnold.” 1 For this December 9 resolve, seeJCC, 18:1138. Huntington also sent a copy of this resolve with a brief letter to Rhode Island governor William Greene this day. PCC, item 15, fol. 179; and Letters to Governors, 16:7, R-Ar. John Sullivan to Meshech Weare Dear Sir Philadelphia Decemr 11th 1780 I am honored with your two favors of the 20th Ulto. with the Inclosures. 1 They came to hand this morning. The one respecting Mr De La Tour was immediately referred to a Committee of which I am a member. We Shall immediately wait on the French Minister, Examine the Laws refered to, Setde the Point with him & immediately report to Congress. The Result Shall be Communicated to you without Loss of Time. 2 I am Sorry that General Bayley Should Suffer himself to believe a Report which has no foundation in Truth: 3 I never opposed a Decision of the Vermont Dispute. I opposed the mode urged by the New York Delegates which was for Congress to give Judgement without the Intervention of Commissioners. I urged that this was against the Confederation & That the Judgment would be invalid but I urged the appointing Commissioners to Decide the Claim. I was Ever of opinion that the time Chosen was very improper and feared those Consequences which by Allens proceedure Seem but too likely to follow. I knew that it was not a Time for America to
