446 December 14, 1780 5 John Thaxter, private secretary to John Adams. Apparendy Lovell is referring to the allowance of £300 for a secretary to Henry Laurens, as American commissioner to the United Provinces, whose duties Adams inherited by virtue of Laurens’ capture by the British. JCC, 15:1235. 6 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Thomas Bell and James Josiah, and to John Adams, October 28, 1780. 7 That is, William Carmichael. 8 That is, Silas Deane, Benjamin Franklin, and Paul Francois de Vauguyon, French minister in Holland, who subsequendy clashed repeatedly with Adams. See James H. Hutson, John Adams and the Diplomacy ojthe American Revolution (Lexington: University of Kentucky Press, 1980), pp. 87-95. Artemas Ward to Unknown Sir Philadelphia Deer. 14 1780 Your favour of the fourteenth Octor last was duly delivered, 1 & I am much obliged to you for the same, & am rejoiced to hear of your welfare, & that of your family. You are pleased to mention with a note of admiration the merciful Interposition of Divine Providence, in the detection of Arnolds Traitrous Conspiracy. It is really a very great mercy & I sincerely wish we may all be truly thankful therefor, not only in word, but in deed; & not only for that particular favour, but for the many undeserved interpositions of Divine Providence in our behalf, through the whole course of the present war. May we not truly say that, this war has been attended with as signal favours almost, as attended Gods anoint[ed] people? If we take an impartial retrospective view Thereof, shall we not have true reason to be astonished at the many remarkable deli[verances] which have been wrought out for us? I have observed from the beginning of the war to the present Period, that when we were weakest & the most exposed the greatest things have been accomplished, and when we have to the human eye appeared, to be in the best Situation, and the fairest prospect before us, the least has been done. And those men & things in which we have placed great confidence, have rendered us but little Service. I readily concur with you in Opinion, that it is of importance that men in power and high places of trust should be watched. I am also of opinion it is of the highest importance that those who have a right to elect into office or places of trust, should be more careful to make choice of honest, sensible, religious men than they commonly are. They ought to avoid that man who will not shake his hands from holding of bribes, as they would their greatest adversary. And that man who makes a mock of all religion & ridacules every thing of a Serious nature is one in my opinion who ought to be carefully shuned & avoided. Towns and Counties making a bad choice of Representatives, will be a means of bad delegates in Congress being chosen, & bad delegates in Congress will also make bad appointments
