December 16, 1780 453 Delegates of Virginia [is gone?] Home 6 with his own Eyes open & a full Purpose to endeavour to persuade [. . .] of that State in a great Measure to relinqish their absurd Claims & [. . .] Cessions of Land to the united States. If this should be the Case there will be an excellent Fund of Credit. I am sorry to say that a family there 7 was always a Party strong enough to prevent foreign Loans so now the Prospect of obtaining them seems more dubious than ever. This Morning or last night an Express arrived with a long Letter from Gov. Rutledge of So. Carolina to the Delegates of that State giving an Account of the position of the Forces on both sides & some little skirmishes. The English have a Post at Camden well fortified & a pretty considerable Garrison in it, another Post at 96, another at Augusta. Lord Cornwallis with the principal force supposed about 10,000 the east side of broad River within I think about 40 Miles of Charlestown. Our forces are in a good many different Bodies round them, Sumpter lower down than they & nearer Charlestown. There is an authentic Account by a Letter from Col. Marrian of his having surprised with 150 Men a Party of the English of 200 in which Encounter about 14 or 15 were killed, between 20 & 30 taken Prisoner & I believe 80 Horses with a considerable Quantity of Arms & Baggage. The Governor also says there was a Report which gained considerable Credit though no Official Accounts have come that Col. Tarlton had attacked Sumpter & was repulsed with great Loss though they did not know the number as they carried off their Dead, that Tarlton himself was mortally wounded & Sumpter our Commander wounded in the Arm but not dangerously & that Sumpter who is a very watchful Officer had learned they were coming against him in great Force & retired some further up the River. Gen. Green had not arrived but was daily looked for. A Colonel (not named) & some Justices had dismissed a great many of the Tories taken on Kings Mountain on their giving Bail for their Appearance at Court & put the Officers on Parole. The Officers broke their Parole & run off & many of the privates again joined the Enemy. I should be glad to know what our Council & Assembly have done respecting the Supply of the Army & to see the Votes of the Assembly. The Exchange of Money here is nominally 75 really 100 at least, for hard money itself cannot be bought at less than 100 if for that and the merchants have raised their Goods 25 per cent universally so that what is called the hard money Price at the Exchange is so much advanced as to answer the same purpose as raising the Exchange. Your Excellency may shew this Letter as it is to the Vice President, 8 Mr Houston & Dr Scudder. To others I would rather you should communicate what news may be in it in your own Words. I am your Excellencies most obedt., humble Servant, Jno Witherspoon
