454 December 16, 1780 RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). Tr (MH-H: Sparks Manuscripts). RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 Not found. 2 This resolution of the convention of northern states meeting in Hartford, Conn., was clearly modeled on one adopted by the New York legislature and at the assembly’s direction proposed to the convention. See James Duane to George Clinton, November 14, 1780, note 5. The proceedings of the convention had been presented to Congress on December 12. JCC, 18:1141; PCC, item 33, fols. 391-416. 3 For the appointment of Francis Dana as American envoy to Russia, see Samuel Huntington to Dana, December 20, 1780. Witherspoon was a member of the committee appointed on December 11, with Theodorick Bland and James Duane, to study the desirability of sending an envoy to St. Petersburg, which had been recommended by Arthur Lee. See JCC, 18:1139, 1155. 4 There is no indication in the journals that a poll of the Congress took place, but Benjamin Franklin’s activities were being scrutinized by Congress, and as a result John Laurens and William Palfrey were appointed special envoys to France. For similar doubts of Franklin’s capabilities, see James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry, November 30, 1780, note 3; John Sullivan to Meshech Weare, December 11, and Thomas McKean to John Adams, December 18, 1780. 5 This information was transmitted in a September 25 letter from William Carmichael, who had reported that Spanish officials had “received intelligence’’ that the Privy Council would probably” adopt a plan “to send commissioners » w >th Congress.” SeeJCC, 18:1132; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6 That is, Joseph Jones, for whose return to Virginia see James Madison to Joseph Jones, September 19, 1780, note 1. 7 That is, the Lee family. 8 John Stevens. Samuel Adams to John Adams My dear Sir Philada Deer 17. 1780 I have written several Letters to you & Mr D since the 28th of June when I last arrivd in this City. 1 I think I committed one to the Care of our Friend Mr Laurens, who is unfortunately carried to England. Mr Palfrey, who is the Bearer of this, is appointed Consul in Prance; and besides his Consular Functions, he has it in Charge to forward such Cloathing, Arms &c as are or may be procured there for the Use of our Troops. Great Exertions have been made the year past, in which old Massachusetts has borne her full Share, to be in Readiness to cooperate with our Ally, in an Attempt to give our Invaders a decisive Blow. But the second Division of the french Squadron being blocked up in Brest, & a Reinforcement to the Enemy arriving from the West Indies, they have had the Superiority at Sea. This was not our only Misfortune; for had the whole naval Force arrivd which we expected, I am inclind to believe we should have faild for Want of a Sufficiency of Powder. By an unpardonable Neglect in some body, that essential Article was not sent, as it ought to have been, in Season. I have called it an unpardonable Neglect. It appears so to me. My Judgment, however, may be too severe.
