December 17, 1780 455 I confess, I feel much chagrind, while I think that tiny thing has been omitted, which might have been done, to have finishd the War with a glorious Campaign. But Disappointments, tho vexatious, ought not to disconcert us. They do not. No Difficulties should discourage us in the Support of a Cause, so righteous in the Sight of Heaven as I believe ours to be, and so interresting to Mankind. Our Creator has given us Understanding, Strength of Body and a Country full of Provisions. We must make a good Use of them, hoping that His Blessing will crown our virtuous Struggle. He helps those who make proper Exertions to help themselves. Such Exertions are now making. The States are called upon for an Army of 35,000 Men; and from past Experience of the great Expence; as well as Inutility of temporary Drafts, they are resolvd to have a well appointed Army early in the Field & inlisted for the War. And effectual Measures are taken for the Purpose of providing Magazines in Season for its Subsistence. The People at large, as far as I can learn, are as determind as ever to support their Independence, & for that End to carry on the War with Vigor. If our Ally can furnish us with a decided naval Superiority, I think there will be the fairest Prospect of bringing this great Contest to a happy Conclusion the next year. Altho’ the Enemy have gaind the Possession of Charlestown, they have not succeeded to their Wishes in that Quarter. They do not find the People so pliable as they flatterd themselves they should. Notwithstanding Cornwallis’s boasting Letter to Lord George of “a compleat Victory obtaind the 16th Instant by His Majesties Troops under my Command, over the rebel southern Army,” that brave Army checkd the Progress of the Troops under his Command on the 16th of August; 2 and the Militia have since, in several Instances, given him ample Proofs of a firm Attachment to the publick Cause, as well as Bravery and Alertness which he did not expect, and which I beleive have disconcerted their general Plan. The Hands of those People, if not already, will very soon be taught to war & their Fingers to fight. Arnolds Conspiracy was to have wrought Wonders but gracious Heaven defeated it. We have so often seen in the Course of this Conflict, the remarkable Interpositions of divine Providence in our favor, as to convince me, that the Attempts of our Enemies to subdue us, will be but gnawing a File. Your publick Letters have been well receivd. I have been favord with only two from you since you left Boston. 3 One was deliverd to me by my worthy patriotick Friend Mr A Lee, & the other by the ViCount de Noailles, who lately spent a few Days in this City. He appears to be a most amiable young Nobleman; & I believe you have not said too much in the great Character you have given him. The very short time he stayed here & the Business I have been engagd in, prevented me the Honor, which I very much covetted, of conversing with him frequently.
