458 December 18, 1780 Samuel Huntington to John Jay Sir, Philadelphia December 18. 1780 Since writing my Letter of the 6th of October last 1 (a Copy of which is enclosed) I have been honored with yours of July 10th & September 16th; 2 by the latter I am happy to find that we may expect soon to receive further & more particular Intelligence from you. Congress, it is probable, will soon establish an Office for foreign Affairs, to be managed by an Officer stiled Secretary for foreign Affairs, who will be constantly devoted to the Business of that Department, which it is to be hoped will remedy many Disadvantages we have hitherto laboured under, and give our Ministers at foreign Courts more frequent, better & earlier Intelligence than they have hitherto received from us. In the Course of the last Campaign the Enemy at New York have been pretty much confined under the Protection of their Ships and Fortifications. The Particulars of their Eruption into the Jerseys under Kniphausen, and the repulse they met with, you must have been informed of before this. The Enemy from Canada have repeatedly attacked the western & northern Frontiers of New York, by the Way of the Mowhawk river and Lake Champlain, marking their route with their usual Devastation, but were soon compelled to retreat with Precipitation. Since the unfortunate Action near Camden and retreat of General Gates, our People, principally Militia of the Southern States, have been frequently skirmishing successfully with the Enemy, and have driven in most of their out Posts. The brilliant Success of the Militia over Colonel Ferguson at Kings Mountain, you must have learnt from the Papers. The Enemy from the last Intelligence were in Possession of Camden and some other inland Posts in South Carolina. Should they not be reinforced soon, it is probable they must have recourse to their old Practice of retiring to the Sea Coast under the Protection of their Shipping. General Greene by Order of Congress hath taken Command of the southern Army, which will be reinforced so as to make a respectable Army in the Course of the Winter. We are waiting and wishing for a naval Force to command the American Seas; and with the Smiles of Providence might soon expect in that Case to expell the Enemy from the United States. Necessity obliges me to confide in the Committee for foreign Affairs to give you the needful and more particular Intelligence. Please to make my Compliments acceptable to your Lady & believe me to be with sincere Esteem & regard, sir, your most obedient & humble servant, Sam. Huntington RC (NNC: Jay Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. Endorsed by Jay; “Reed. 13 March 1781. ansd. 21 Apr. 1781.’’
