460 December 18, 1780 the Colonel, killed near 100 and taken 112 prisoners. All is quiet in the neighbourhood of New-York. The Enemy seem to bend their whole attention and force to the Southward. They had detached 2000 men to Portsmouth in Virginia under General A. Lesley, with a view of forming a junction with Lord Cornwallis; but being totally deceived in that expectation, after staying in that neighbourhood upwards of three weeks, making a small fortification there, burning some churches & dwelling houses according to their custom, they re embarked on the 23d last month, intending it is supposed for Cape- Fear in North Carolina, but we have as yet no certain accounts of their landing. So much for news. You should have more, but the Bearer, Mr. John Benezet, 2 purposing to sail early tomorrow morning prevents it. Permit me, Sir, to introduce this Gentlemen to your acquaintance. He proposes to reside for some time in France, as a Merchant; he is one of a considerable House here, has been a staunch Whig from the first dawn of the contest, and has always bore the character of a sensible & polite Gentleman. I am, dear Sir, Your most obedient & very humble servant, [P.S. ] Be so good as to present my very respectful compliments to Mr. Dana. FC (PHi: McKean Papers). In the hand of Thomas McKean. 1 See these Letters, 14:162-63. 2 John Benezet, merchant and business agent for William Bingham, was lost at sea during this voyage. See Samuel Huntington to John Benezet, March 9, 1780, note 1; and Robert C. Alberts, The Golden Voyage. The Life and Times of William Bingham, 1752-1804 (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1969), p. 101. John Sullivan to George Washington Dear General Philadelphia Decemr 18th 1780 The Avarice of Connecticut & the Jealousy of Pensylvania have brought on a Dispute which could not be Settled but by a Resolution for your Excellency to relieve the present Garrison of Wyoming with Troops not Drawn from the Line of Either of Said States. Leaving it in your Descretion to Determine whether a Garrison was necessary at that Place. A full persuasion that you wish to Exercise this & Every other Discretionary Power for the Publick good Induces me to take the Liberty of offering my opinions which is That if a Garrison is not maintained at that place, The Indians by having the River Free for their Canoes will Cut off all the Inhabitants at Wyoming: on the west Branch of Susquehannah and all the Frontier Setders Down to Easton. This from my knowledge of the Country appears to be the inevitable Consequence of removing the Garrisons. Your
