December 18, 1780 461 Excellency will give This Hint Such weight as it may appear to merit & believe me to be with the most zealous attachment, Your Excellencys most obedt Servt, Jno. Sullivan RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 For this December 12 resolution attempting to mollify the contending Pennsylvania and Connecticut partisans in the Wyoming Valley, see Samuel Huntington to Washington, December 16, 1780. Oliver Wolcott to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia 18 Deer. 1780 The Most Material Matters which have been transacted in Congress Since my Arrival 1 has been an Appointment of an Envoy to the Court of France, and a Vote to Send a Minister to the Court of Russia. The Expediency of Sending an Envoy to the Court of France was much doubted of by a Number of Gentlemen—As Nothing was proposed to be transacted of that particularity and Importance but what might properly be done by our Residentiary Minister at that Court. That the Measure might excite wrong and Very improper Apprehensions. That it might be understood by Dr Franklin and the World in general as wearing an Appearance unfavourable to his Character, which while he was in so Important an Office Prudence as well as Justice Oblidged us to Support. That instead of an Envoy Our Minister in France ought to have the Aid of an Active intelligent Secretary, an Aid which every other Minaster in less important Service had been furnished with. But upon a Division it was carryed And Col Laurens a Gentleman it is Said of real Abilities is charged with this Commission. The Vote to Send a Minister to Russia met but with little opposition upon the Consideration of the Influence of that Court upon the Generi Affairs of Europe and as paying a Respect to a Princiss of the greatest Dignity. Mr Dana may probably be Sent to that Court. 2 Mr J Adams is charged with the Commission which the late President Laurens was to Execute. 3 Mr. Williams writes from France that the Reason why no more of the Cloathing has not been Sent has been owing to a Quarrel between Capt. Landais and Some of our other Officers. 4 The Occasion of this Delay will be enquired into. The Rest of the Supplies may probably soon be in America. Mr. Vergennes wrote to Mr J Adams then in Paris with Regard to the Measure adopted by Congress for cancelling their Currency at a Discount, & Manifested Some Apprehensions he had, that Congress might not be able to Vindicate the Justice of the Measure. Mr. Adams I think returned a Very convincing Answer in which
