462 December 18, 1780 in a particular Manner he Stated the true Principles upon which Congress proceeded, and in my Apprehension clearly shewed that Justice dictated the Measure. It is presumed that the Minister will be Satisfied with the Propriety of the Act. No unfavourable Symtoms Appear which indicate any Want of Cordiality in that Court. Your Excellency has probably heard that the Count de Sartine is removed from the Marine Department. 5 The Reasons for this are not known, it is Said that this Gentieman had no professional Acquaintance with Naval Affairs, and that the most perfect Amity had not Subsisted between him and the Count de Estaing. We have pretty undoubted Information that Portugal has Acceded to the Plan of Neutrality proposed by Russia. There is a very probable Account that Sr Harry Clinton has Sent to the British Court for Ten Thousand additional Troops or that he might be permitted to Return Home, that this Court have Signified to him their intire Approbation of his Conduct, and have it is Said determined to Send him the Succours asked for to carry on their Military Operations to the Southward. By Accounts from the Southward We learn that our affairs there, are becoming more prosperous—Small Advantages are pritty frequently gained upon the Enemy. Lord Cornwallis Apprehends it Seems that he can put no Confidence in the People who have reed, his Protection, in this probably he is not Mistaken, this has induced him to Excercize a Most Severe Government over them, which has Occasioned Many of those People to join our Troops. Every Defection increases his Severity which has a proportionable Influence upon the People and as they will find the Government perfectly insupportable it is to be hoped that Exertions will be made by them adequate to repel the Violence which oppresses them. Your Excellency has probably been informed that a rapid Depretiation of the old Bills had taken place in this Town, this Occasioned the Inhabitants to Meet, who paid the Discount at 75 for one—the immediate Consequence of this was an Advance of the Specie Price upon all Vendables—so that not the least Advantage has been derived from the Measure. The practical Discount is about one hundred for one. What seems to have been the immediate Cause of the Depretiation has been a Vast Influx of the Bills from the Southward. In S. Carolina & Georgia they can be but of little use, in N. Carolina who have not yet Adopted the Money System of Congress, they are Very low, but yet pass at twice the Value of a late State Emission which they have issued. In Virginia who it is said are issuing a State Emission the Depretiation is also Very great. This Occasions the Money to be brought here to Exchange or realize. These Causes will probably Continue to Operate for some Time as the old Money is but a Very little of it Yet cancelled, and a large part of Taxes paid in Certificates and State Emissions Made. I believe
