December 18, 1780 463 there are none of the New Bills of Congress Emitted South of the Jersys. This State have put out a few of them and made them a Tender at 75 for one. Pensylvania are about to pass an Act relative to the New Money System. What will be the Ultimate Fate of the New Bills cannot be known absolutely but upon tryal. The State Emissions of Connecticut, Pensylvania and Maryland which were well funded now pass in the Relation to the old Bills one for forty. Bills of Exchange Sell here at 75 per Cent. I suppose this is nearly the Case in all the States. An Evidence that there is no high Demand for Specie for commercial Purposes Abroad—or that Bills of Exchange are plenty. I suppose that they must continue So while a French Fleet and Army are in this Country and while Congress at the same Time continue to draw upon their Commissioners in Europe. Upon those Principles But little Specie will go from Us except what Shall be clandestinely Sent to N York which will not probably be Very great, and which upon every Principle ought to be totally prevented. The large Expenditure of Specie by the French Army and Navy in the Country, and but Very little of it Sent Abroad will Rapidly Increase the Quantity—And may probably if continued but for even a Short Time produce a Redundancy especially, in the Northern States. That will be a Cause of Luxury, Dissipation and Injustice. The Doings of the Convention who met at Hartford are in the Hands of a Committee. 6 The Object of Finance will come under Consideration. But the Effect of these Deliberations will probably be Slow and perhaps Unproductive. We have No Money in the Continental Chest—and have but a little Prospect of having it Supplied. As the Post is going out of Town shall only add that Since Writing the above Some Alteration has been made by Congress in the Slate of their New Ministers—And Mr Dana is appointed for Russia. 7 I am Your Excellencys Most Obedt. Servant, Oliver Wolcott P.S. Before I close up my Letter I cannot but Express the Chagrin that almost every Man must feel on Reflecting that the old Bills which are fit but for little Else but to Make the Tail of a Paper Kite with at least their Value May not be worth more than 500,000 £ Sterling Should so extremely Imbarrass our Affairs, And that it seems to be an Evil which will probably continue for a long Time to Oppress Us in the way in which We are proceeding. Congress will consider the Object of Finance as a Very Delicate Affair as it truly is. Every one is interested in the Subject—And the Opinions of Mankind in Regard to it are Very different. To Do Justice to the Possessors of the Bills to Obviate the Misschief, which they Occasion and to Maintain the Honour and Reputation of the Publick in Regard to those Objects, are Difficulties of a peculiar Nature. Congress have been so much Criminated for what they have already done upon this
