472 December 20, 1780 your attention and regard. I know he will deserve them; and I know you too well to doubt, in that case, his obtaining them. Having lately left the Scene where our affairs labor under the greatest difficulties, I mean the southern department, it will probably not be disagreeable to you to know my Sentiments relative to them. Some Events, it is true, were unfortunate, but to me, they Seemed rather the result of Misconduct, and a precipitation that contemmed all precaution, than of weakness. Nothing can be a stronger proof of that determined, unconquerable Spirit, which Animates all America, than what appeared in the State of North Carolina immediately on the defeat of General Gates near Campbden. The rout of his army was as compleat as can be imagined. The utter loss of Tents, Wagons, and every Camp Necessary made it impossible for his Troops to keep the field. Want of magazines, which, through some defects in the Staff departments, had been neglected, rendered it almost impossible to collect the Scattered Soldiers. Appearances could not be more desperate. Even the General gave up all hopes of defending the Country, and thought of nothing but the Safety of the remains of his regular Army. But, under all those Circumstances, the People, tho laboring under all the distresses inseperable from an unprovided Soldiery, flew to Arms with the greatest alacrity; resolving that the Enemy should not find their Country an Easy prey if even they should not be able, finally, to withstand them. They had the Success that such spirit in a people will always Command. They obtained a most compleat victory over one of the principal divisions of the British Army, with Numbers much inferior to those they Conquered. They harrassed the other division with incessant skirmishes, until they obliged them to retreat a considerable distance into South Carolina. The war may impoverish and distress us: we may be many times unsuccessful. Our armies may be dispersed: our finances deranged, but a people, pervaded by such a spirit as animates all America, never can be Conquered. I refer you to some other Correspondent for details. The spirit of the people appears to me, and, I am persuaded to you also, of far more interesting Consequence. I am Sr with much regard and Esteem, Your obedt. Set. Tho Burke FC (Nc-Ar: Burke Papers). In the hand of Thomas Burke. 1 See Thomas McKean to Adams, December 18, 1780, note 2.
