476 December 21, 1780 to mention, that the British ministry have carried all before them in the late general elections. Most of the eminent characters in the opposition are left out—namely, Mr.Fox, Mr. Burke, Mr. Wilkes, with a number of others, whose names I do not recollect. An unsuccessful attempt was made to oust Sir George Saville. My best respects to Mr. Barker and all my other friends. You will observe there are some circumstances in this letter which should be communicated with caution. Tell Mr. Smith I will write to him soon; and let him see this. Present my love to my sister Iredell, my sister Blair, Nelly, and the children; tell them I think of them with all imaginable tenderness. Though I am now writing at two o’clock in the afternoon, it is so dark I can scarcely read what I write. Adieu! and believe me ever, My dear Sir, Your affectionate brother and most obedient servant, Sam. Johnston MS not found; reprinted from McRee, Iredell, 1:479-80. 1 Johnston took his seat in Congress on December 29. JCC, 18:1203. James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin Honorable Sir Philadelphia 21 Dec 1780 The bearer William Palfrey Esqre our late paymaster general has been appointed Consul in France, with powers adequate to a general Agency in our Commercial Concerns there. But while I take up my pen to introduce him to your patronage, I ought to use it, rather perhaps by way of apologizing for myself in the line of Member of the Committee of Foreign affairs from whom you will find no Letter. There was a prospect of much business being committed to you by this opportunity, but it was altogether depending upon the President and Secretary to transmit it, which it seems, they were prevented from doing by an arrangement being but partly accomplished, which Congress have thought fit to connect with those affairs. 1 The proceeding is of a nature not to admit of my enlarging upon it; because neither my head nor my heart Suggests any thing of Eulogium; and my conscience forbids me to pursue the usual Stile of Minorities. The Journals which I send will Show that we have had no Letter from you since that of May last, except two Short ones lately, respecting the private concerns of two Officers, Baron Arendt and an other whose name is not now on my Memory. 2 Col. Palfrey will be able to give you information additional to the Gazettes, I am Sir your mo. H. Servt, Signed James Lovell FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). In a clerical hand. 1 For the “additional instructions” for Franklin adopted by Congress on
