478 December 22, 1780 Act of Congress of this Day together with the Extract of a Letter from the Commander in Chief of the 15th Instant to which the Act refers. 1 The Nature & Importance of the Subject is so fully stated in the Inclosures, and the Necessity of a Compliance with the requisition so obvious, it would be superfluous to attempt any aditional Motives to call forth the effectual Exertions of the respective States to compleat their Quotas of the federal Army with the necessary Supplies. I have the Honor to be &c &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). This letter was sent “to the several States from New Hampshire to North Carolina inclusive.” The enclosures that went with it were also sent to South Carolina governor John Rutledge with a brief cover letter from Huntington of December 24. PCC, item 15, fol. 191. 1 The enclosed December 22 resolve contained an exhortation to the states to complete their quotas of troops for the Continental Army “without loss of time, . . . [and] to furnish the supplies of provisions and money assigned for their support.” See JCC, 18:1182; and Huntington to George Washington, December 21, 1780. For the extract Huntington actually enclosed from Washington’s letter, concerning Britain’s “Intentions ... to send further reinforcements to America . . . [and] to revenge herself upon us” in retaliation for the recent growth of the League of Armed Neutrality, see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 8:686-87. Oliver Wolcott to Samuel Lyman Sir Philadelphia 22 Deer 1780 Your Very Oblidging Letter of the 18t Instant is reed. I am but little Surprized at the Vexation Oliver Meets with in his Business. 1 I saw the Inveteracy which some felt towards him—and Very much doubted of the Expediency of his holding his Business especially after I saw that Mr. Hubbard had determined not to continue in Office. I knew that the office would be but poorly supplyd with Money— That there was no Forage provided—That some knavish Fellows were determined to Embarrass and Misrepresent every Part of his Conduct to get the business for themselves or for such as were like them—as well as to gratify their malice against me for Opposing some of their Villanys. These were sufficient Reasons with me to be extremely dubious as to the Expediency of his being in this Business. His Wish was not to be idle, and hoping that Matters might not be so uncomfortable for him as I feared, I was upon the whole willing that he should be gratified, and I believed that he would Discharge his Duty in the best Manner he was able. But I am extremely glad that he has determined to quit the Business, and more so under Circumstances so agreable as those you mention. You may be assured Sir, that this as well as other Acts of your Kindness excites my Warmest Gratitude. Might this youth be in a Situation agreable and Usefull to himself and beneficial to others it would give me that
