484 December 25, 1780 upon the value of the Estate of those of his Subjects who quit His kingdom to pass into another or upon the sale of an Estate descending to a Foreigner who will not come to inhabit in the Country. This Right varies much from an Hundred to ten per Cent according to the amount of Sales of the Estate which the Heir or Lagetee would carry out. The Sovereign has a legal Hypothecation and the preference of payment in such Goods. In some Countries This Right is by common Law, in others such as France after the treaty of abolition of Droit dau Bane it is exercised only by retention.” This expression is become the Style in the Treaty of abolition and is found in our Treaty of Commerce by superabundance & by an Exercise of foresight in the Parties contracting. The King of France therefore by abolishg those Rights respecting the Americans in effect permitted their Estates to descend to the Heir or to be taken by the Executor or Administrator and permits them to depart from His Kingdom with all their Effects without substraction or diminution. What He now requests from the American States is to pass Laws granting like Privileges to His Subjects. I have the Honor to be, with much Esteem your most obedt Servant, Jno Sullivan RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Sullivan. 1 For the dispute between “Portsmouth and Mr De latour,” see Sullivan to Weare, December 11, 1780, note 2. 2 Under article 13 of the 1778 Franco-American Treaty of Amity and Commerce, subjects of the United States were to be exempt in France from the “droit d’Aubaine” and “droit de detraction,” and subjects of France were to enjoy, “in all the dominions of the said states, an entire and perfect reciprocity relative to [these] stipulations.” See JCC, 11:429; and Samuel Huntington to the States, January 18, 1780. 3 Charles Molloy, De Jure Maritime et Navali; or A Treatise of Affaires Maritime and of Commerce (London: J. Bellinger, 1676). John Sullivan to Meshech Weare Dear Sir Philadelphia 25th Decemr 1780 I have the Honor to Inclose you a number of Queries Made to Me by the Secretary of the French Embassy with Copies of My answers. 1 This Gentleman is one of those usefull genius’s who is Constantly in Search of knowledge he is about to write the History of America or rather to give a Geographical Description of it. As much advantage will arise from our Commerce & Constitutions being well known: As Mr Adams has wrote from Holland to Congress pressing upon them the necessity of Taking measures for this purpose
