486 December 25, 1780 prospect of success in a farther continuation of the war, and their hopes of subjugating us, if they still retain any, must rest wholly on the derangement of our finances. If these can be put upon a proper footing, we shall soon see an end of our troubles and have nothing to fear from the ambition or malice of our enemy. The arrangement and right management of our finances is therefore an object of the greatest importance. Our resources are great if we can but adopt wise plans to call them forth. For although some individuals have suffered by the war, yet the people in general are rather enriched. Our farms are cultivated as formerly, our harvests have been plentiful and our future prospects are favorable & flattering: A spirit of oeconomy and frugality prevails. Our farmers in general possess freehold estates and are thereby unencumbered with rents. We are not burthened as in other countries with the maintenance of expensive clergy. From all which causes we are in a condition to apply a greater part of our income and of the product of our labour to the public exigencies and are able to bear a greater load of taxes than most other nations in the world. The great question is, in what manner ought these taxes to be levied? There are two methods in use; one by a direct application to the people for the sums necessary; the other by imposts and duties. The latter is a mode of drawing money from the people insensibly. For although the money is at first paid by the importer, exporter or possessor of the article, upon which the impost or duty is laid, yet as he who advances the money always takes care to indemnify himself by adding it to, or deducting it from the price, according as the impost or duty is laid on articles of home consumption or foreign exportation, the money is refunded to him by the people and generally with a considerable additional sum for having advanced it. But little attention is paid to the duty as it is blended with the price of the commodity. This is a favorite scheme of levying taxes in monarchies and aristocracies, where large sums are expended that will not bear a public examination, But in republican governments, such as are established in America; it is dangerous and inexpedient. When people are called upon for taxes and feel the burden of them, they are more attentive to abuses and misapplication in the expenditure and will of consequence be more watchful to prevent their rulers from bribing the people, as is often the case, with their own money and subverting the public liberty by means put into their hands for securing and defending it. The people of America are in general sensible and intelligent; Convince them that taxes are necessary and they will cheerfully pay them. It appears to me that during the present controversy, the people have been always readier to pay than the legislatures to lay or call for taxes. Before Governments were established it was no doubt
