488 December 25, 1780 advanced to upwards of an hundred for one. People at length began to see their folly and soon became convinced that by raising their prices they diminished their fortunes. They therefore stopped short and by general consent brought it back to 75 for one, at which rate it now seems fixed. This operation has produced one good effect. It has changed the ideas of the people and brought them back to the old mode of estimating things by specie prices. There is scarce a man now to be found who rates his estate or the commodities he wants to buy or sell in continental currency. Government should therefore avail itself of this change and, in order to redeem the old currency and provide supplies adequate to the public exigencies, should call for taxes, the first to be paid in specie or continental money equivalent at the rate of 75 for one and all future taxes in specie or new money at par. By this means a state may in a month or six weeks by a vigorous exertion call in & redeem its whole quota of the old currency without overburthening its inhabitants and lodge in its treasury a large sum of the new money, which by calling for & collecting the future taxes every two or three months at farthest may be brought into credit and circulation without any compulsory laws and rendered equal in value to Gold and silver. By which means the public treasury may be supplied, debts discharged, the army recruited and paid & Congress enabled at the opening of the campaign effectually to co operate with our ally and probably bring the war to a speedy and happy issue. Congress having in their act of 18th March last resolved that new money should be emitted in a certain proportion as fast as the old is brought in and cancelled and having determined that the quantity of the new money should not exceed ten million dollars have directed that six tenths of the new as fast as issued be delivered to the states and the remaining four tenths reserved for the payment of the army and other public demands. Suppose a state not to have called in and cancelled any part of the old continental currency. Let it take a fifth of its whole quota of the two hundred millions; divide that by fifty and call for a tax equal to that fiftieth part to be paid within a month or six weeks at farthest either in specie or continental currency at the rate of 75 for one. If any Gold or Silver is received let it be exchanged for continental currency at the same rate, and the whole amount of the tax in that currency being brought in and cancelled, the six tenths of the new money issued in lieu thereof which the state will receive will be sufficient within a trifle to redeem the remainder of the quota which is uncollected. Let the state then proceed to call for another tax to the same amount to be paid within a month or six weeks in specie or new money only at par and direct all those who have old continental currency to bring it in and receive new money in lieu
