498 December 25, 1780 By some such mode as is here pointed out the resources of the states may be called forth with ease to the inhabitants and with the least possible expence; the public credit may thereby be restored, the exigencies of government provided for, contracts made and the articles wanted procured on the most advantageous terms; and by thus arranging our finances and convincing our enemies that we are in a condition to carry on the war we shall I am persuaded soon bring them to acknowledge our independence and to grant us peace on honorable terms. But as our present demands are urgent and immediately wanted no time should be lost in calling upon the people to pay in two or three monthly taxes agreeable to the last assessments in the mode heretofore accustomed until such time as a law can be made to the effect and for the purposes abovementioned. As for the mode of raising recruits for the continental army and regulating the militia of the state I must reserve my thoughts for some future occasion, and will only add here that I am much mistaken if the state find any great difficulty in furnishing its quota of men provided it adopts the foregoing plan or some one similar and proceeds with vigor and resolution in carrying it into effect. I am, Dear Sir, Your affectionate, Cha Thomson P.S. As the whole success of the foregoing plan depends upon the punctual collection of the taxes, I find upon farther inquiry, that the Connecticut law pays a particular attention to that matter and provides that the sheriff upon receiving the warrant from the Treasurer shall first call upon the collectors & seize their effects. But if they cannot be found or if their effects are not sufficient he shall then proceed and levy upon the effects of the select men & listers, who in that case are empowered by the law to indemnify themselves by rating & collecting from the inhabitants of the town a sum sufficient to reimburse themselves for all losses & damages. The town, also has power to call the collectors to account as often as they think proper, to take security for the faithful discharge of their duty, to remove them at pleasure & appoint others. In short they have a sovereign controul over them & are at liberty to guard against their laches 2 or unfaithfulness in such way as they may judge best. RC (PPL: Logan-Dickinson Collection). i See JCC, 16:262-67. 2 In law, “Negligence in the performance of any legal duty.” OED.
