December 26, 1780 499 Thomas Bee to Benjamin Huntington Dear Sir, Philadelphia 26 Decemr. 1780. I am much Obliged to you for the agreable Intelligence contained in your Letter of the 8th respecting the Prize taken by Capt. House, an account of which we also received from him in a Letter yesterday. I am in hopes this Prize will enable us to remit something handsome to our distressed Prisoners in Chas. Town who are suffering every hardship the British can inflict on them. They have lately taken up Thirty more of the principal Inhabitants to be sent to St. Augustine, without the Shadow of a charge against them except the Influence they may have on the other Inhabitants a few of whom have been induced by their Threats to take protection from them—We have no Advices from the Southern Army since Genl. Green has taken the Command, but I fear the reinforcement Genl. Leslie carried from Virginia, will prevent our doing much this Winter. I am glad to find your assembly are using their best endeavours to answer the requisitions of Congress—if we could once get into the Field an Army for the War, we may with the assistance of our Ally easily drive our Enemies from the Continent next Campaign. The President, & my Colleagues beg to return their best respects wishing you the Compliments of the Season, & a return of many happy New Years. I am Sir with sincere Esteem, your most hum servt, Tho. Bee RC (NRom: Huntington Collection). Addressed: “The Honble Benjamin Huntington Esqr. at Norwich in Connecticut.” Thomas Burke to John Laurens Phila. 26th De’r 1780. 1 Qu. What Methods have been taken for raising men & what prospect of Success? 1 Ansr. A Law is in force for raising men on a bounty of One prime Slave and a Tract of (I believe) 200 acres of Land to every Soldier for the War who shall compleat the term of Service, and to the family or representative of Such as may die in Service. Besides this a bounty of money was appointed, but the depreciation has made it Inconsiderable. This act has had little or no Success, nor do I expect any from that or any other Expedient for raising regular Troops so long as the Circumstances of the war require so many of our Militia in the field. Very few can at any time be found to inlist voluntarily, because landed property is very easily acquired, the Climate is mild, and the Soil either fruitful for agriculture, fit for raising Stock, or for
