500 December 26, 1780 producing Naval Stores. The War has exhausted all or most of the men who might be calculated upon for voluntary inlistments. 2 Qu. What methods for procuring Supplies? Ansr. A specific Tax is laid, which, on the lowest computation, will yield 500,000 bushels of Indian Corn, or other provisions Equivalent. Besides this the Commissioners are authorised and required, if necessary, to take, for public use, one half of all the provisions which can be found in the State above what may be necessary for the Support of the Inhabitants. Powers are given for calling forth Teams &c for transportation but this is a very difficult business, and destructive to the agriculture of the State. So many of our Wagons and Horses have been destroyed, disabled, or lost in the late affair near Cambden, and, before that, in the distant Service to which the Militia were called, that the Country retains but a very scanty Supply for its agriculture for which they are Essentially requisite. Teams, however, and carriages have been supplied for the movements both of Militia and regulars, but in Consequence thereof the agriculture has been very much Neglected. Commissioners are appointed with ample powers for employing the resources of the State in the purchase of Arms, Amunition, cloathing and other foreign Supplies. I cannot Say I expect much from their Efforts, but rather wish these Supplies might be sent from abroad. A money Tax of 7 14 per cent on the gross value of property valued at 7 for 1 on the specie price. 3d Qu. What towards relinquishing Vacant Lands for the use of the United States? Ansr. This has never yet been submitted to the Legislature] nor indeed do I know upon what principle it is requ[ested]. I believe it will be difficult to Convince the State that a [large] part of her property should be made Common Stock w[hile] others retain all their more Valuable property entire and unaffected by such a Contribution. This is Conjecture. The Question cannot be pointedly answered. Sir, In the foregoing you will find all that at present Occurs to me on the Questions propounded to me by Mr. Mathews on your behalf. 2 I wish my answers could be more agreeable, but the truth must be told to you, and your prudence will best point out the use you may be able to make of it. If I can give you any farther Satisfaction I will do it with great pleasure. I am S’r with Regard and Esteem, Your very obd. S’t. Thos. Burke RC (DLC: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 For the purpose of these queries, see the following note. 2 John Mathews had originally served on the committee that drafted Laurens’ commission and instructions as minister extraordinary to France and on December
