504 December 26, 1780 in a manner destitute. You will exceedingly oblige me if you will inform me by the first post whither one can be obtained, and on what terms. (Hard money I have none.) If it is not possible to get a good waiting man please let me know whether an honest farmer boy can be had & the terms, and perhaps he may be taught to make a waiter—honesty is the most necessary quallification. I am sorry to give you so much trouble but cannot get a good boy to purchase to the southward. Our affairs to the southward wear a better aspect, the voluntary exertions of the Militia since the defeat of Genl. Gates, has repulsed the enemy in various rencounters with their out posts & thereby have obliged their main body to retreat out of North Carolina with precipitation. Sundry private letters say, that Genl. Sumter who commands a small body of So. Carolina Militia defeated Colo. Tarleton about the 20th Novr. but have not received it officially. We are not informed of Genl. Leslie since he left the chessepeak bay. With great esteem, I am, Sir Your Most Obt. Humble Servt. Wm. Sharpe RC (MeHi: Fogg Collection). Jesse Root to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Please your Excellency Philadelphia Decembr. 27th 1780 The want of a Safe Conveyance, and my Sons having the Small pox in the family, of which he is got well, prevented my writing to you Sooner. Inclosed are Extracts of letters which passed between the Count Vergennes Minister of France & Mr John Adams—which need no Comment. 1 Also a Copy of a letter wrote to the board of war from the President & Council of Pensylvania, 2 avowing & Justifying their orders to Lt. Hunter to Stop Supplies Carrying on to Wyoming by order of the Commissary Genl; and the Subsequent resolution of Congress respecting that Post; 3 the whole being of Such a nature & Complexion I thought it my duty to Communicate the Whole to your Excellency that you may write to Genl Washington on the Subject in Case you Shall think it proper & necessary. The tenour of the armed Neutrality among the northern powers, the States which have acceeded to it & their naval force; with the manner in which it is received in Britain, the inclosed papers will Explain nothing is Clearer than that this Confederacy does most pointedly Counteract the Veiws of Britain with respect to America, for it legitimates a free trade with us without Exception—which has been interdicted by great Britain. Messr. Guichen arrived at Cadiz on the 24th of Octr. with a Convoy of 140 Sail of Merchantmen,
