December 27, 1780 505 where was also Count de Estang with 74 Ships of the line. Mr. H Laurance is Committed to the Tower on a Charge of high Treason. Mr Adams is impowered to negociate the business in Holland which Mr Laurence was to have done. Mr Frances Dana is appointed our Minister at the Court of Petersburgh to acceede to the neutrality & to negociate other business which may be beneficial to these States. Col John Laurence is appointed to go to France to enforce the reasons for granting us the aid Solicited from thence & to Send over the Supplies So much wanted for our Army. The british Ministry hold up to their people an Idea of paccification; to keep up the Credit of their funds & quiet their minds of the people under the heavy losses they have Sustained in the Summer past—and to amuse their Enemies while they are Secretly Meditating war & reveange. The Kings Speech at the opening of the new parliament, it is Said, Contains nothing very Important only with respect to America he is please to observe, that those rebellious Subjects who rise against Government must be reduced to distruction or the Constitution must fail. Overtures have been made by the british ministry to the Court of Madrid, for an accommodation which that Court rejected unless France Should be included—to which the british Minister replied—that France was So Connected with America that they Could not treat without America, to this the Spanish Minister answered, that his Court was no less bound to France than France to America. The System of Government over these States as at present exercised is extremely defective. The Sovereign power of war & peace, having no permanent funds in its possession, nor the means of establishing any Must feel itself weak & prevent or defeat almost every measure however necessary & render the Execution languid tardy & oft times wholly abortive—The wealth of the States Constitutes the great fund on which we must depend for Credit abroad & for resources at home—and while these are drawn forth at the volition of each State, by recommendatory requisitions only it is in the power of any State to defeat the most important measure. The union of these thirteen States, for their mutual interest & Safety, Constitutes a republic of States or political persons—of which great republic, each State Constitutes one Member or Subject— over which Congress is appointed to preside and it is as necessary that Congress Should exercise the powers of Coercion over the particular States for the general purposes of the Confederacy as it is that the Confederacy Should Continue in its present form—or that each State Should exercise Such power over its particular Citizens for the weal of the State—and this power is so far from infringing upon the right or Sovereignty of the particular States—that it is as necessary for the preservation of them as the union itself. The result of the Convention at Hartford has been laid before
