December 30, 1780 513 Intelligence of the Success of Gen Sumpter & Lt Col. Washington contained in the enclosed Despatches No. 1 & No. 2. 1 It is said a reinforcement is gone from New York to South Carolina, and that Admiral Rodney with nine Sail of the line is gone to the West Indies. From the Situation & Disposition of the Powers in Europe, Russia in particular, by the latest Intelligence, Congress have thought it expedient immediately to send a Minister to the Court of Petersburgh, and for the Sake of Despatch, among other Considerations, have appointed the Honble Francis Dana Esquire (now in Europe & Secretary to Mr J. Adams) to that important Mission. The Appointment ought not to be published at present for obvious Reasons. Colonel John Trumbull was in London the 25th of October last, and had been there some Time in Company with Mr West the celebrated Painter. This Intelligence I have received from a Gentleman just arrived in this City from London who tells me he saw Mr Trumbull and conversed with him & a Number of other Americans who had taken an active Part in the War in America, and appeared Openly in the City & no Notice taken of them by Authority. From my present Situation & Engagement Necessity obliges me to depend upon my Colleagues to give your Excellency more particular & frequent Intelligence than I can possibly do, which I have no Doubt they will faithfully perform. I have the Honor to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem & respect, your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See the preceding entry, note 2. Samuel Adams to John Scollay My dear Sir Philade Deer 30 1780 I receivd your favor of the 6th Instant, but not till the 25th. The Post has been very irregular of late, & our Letters grow old before we receive them. It is a Shame that the Mail has been catched a second time in the same trap. I inclosd to you a Warrant on Mr Appleton for the Amount of your Demand for boarding the orphans of our late Friend Genl Warren. I think I did not send the Letter by that Post. But being uncertain I informd you in a subsequent Letter of my having sent the Warrant, and desired you to inform me whether it had come safely to hand. I expect to hear from you in Answer
