520 December 1780 Samuel Huntington to the Sultan of Morocco [December 1780] The Congress of the Thirteen United States of North America, to the High, Potent and Most Noble Prince, The King and Emperour of Morocco. Most noble and puissant Prince! We, the Congress of the Thirteen United States of North America, have been informed of Your Majesty’s favourable Regard to the Interests of the People we represent; which has been communicated by Mons Etienne D’Audibert Caille, of Salee, Consul for Foreign Nations unrepresented in Your Majesty’s States. 1 We assure you of our earnest Desire to cultivate a sincere and firm Peace, and Friendship with your Majesty, and to make it lasting to all Posterity. In Order that we may demonstrate more fully the high Value we place upon the Amity of so enlightened and magnanimous a Prince, we have given the necessary Orders to our Minister Plenipotentiary at the Court of His Most Christian Majesty, the King of France, and a proper Person will receive Powers to enter into Negociations for settling a Treaty of Peace and Commerce with such representative of Your Majesty as you may please to appoint. This, from Your Majesty’s great Wisdom and Generosity, we have no Doubt will be adjusted to the mutual Advantage of both Nations. In the mean Time should any of the Subjects of our States come within <your Majesty’s) Ports or Territories, we flatter ourselves they will receive the Benefit of your Protection and Benevolence. You may assure yourself of every Protection and Assistance to your Subjects from the People of these States whenever and wherever they may have it in their Power. We pray your Majesty may enjoy long Life and uninterrupted Prosperity. Signed in, and by Order of the Congress of the thirteen United States of North America, Day of the Month of December in the year of our LORD Christ 1780 and of our Independence 5. FC (DNA: PCC, item 98). In the hand of William Churchill Houston. 1 See the preceding entry. Artemas Ward to Unknown Sir [December 1780] 1 Your Letter of the twenty fourth of Novr. last is at last come to hand; for which I return you my warmest thanks. With astonishment I read the several pieces of Intelligence. In the year 1760 Octor. 25.
