536 January?, 1781 2 Huntington’s reference to a resolve of the “29th” appears to be an error, but for Congress’ December 28 endorsement of Greene’s appointment of Edward Carrington, secJCC, 18:1201. Huntington also sent a copy of this resolve this day to Quartermaster General Timothy Pickering, PCC, item 15, fol. 196. 3 See Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson, January 1, 1781, note 4. Samuel Huntington to the Comte de Vergennes Sir, Philadelphia January 2. 1780 [i.e., 1781] I have the Honor to introduce to your Excellency the Honorable John Laurens Esquire a Lieutenant Colonel in the American Army. 1 This gentieman is the Son of his Excellency Henry Laurens Esquire late President of Congress, hath distinguished himself in the Service of his Country in the present Contest, is a Person of amiable Endowments, and comes charged with a Special Commission to the Court of Versailles. I am convinced your Excellency will receive him in a Manner Suited to his Merit and Character. I have the Honor to be, with Sentiments of the highest Respect & Esteem, your Excellency’s most obedient & very humble Servant, Samel. Huntington Tr (Archives du Ministere des affaires etrangeres: Correspondance politique, Etats- Unis, vol. 11). 1 See Huntington to Laurens, January 1, 1781. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia January 2. 1781 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, an Act of Congress of the 29th Ulto relative to the Exchange of Prisoners. 1 I have also enclosed an Act of the 1st Instant, with an Extract of a Letter from the Honorable John Adams Esquire of the 23d of August. 2 Your Excellency will please to observe on this Subject your Opinion is desired on the Expediency of ordering the Forces of his most Christian Majesty now at New Port in Rhode Island, to take Post in Virginia. From the Plan for future Operations which it is presumed you have concerted in Conjunction with the Count de Rochambeau, as also many other Circumstances incident to your Station, you are best able to determine the Expediency of the proposed Measure; and I need not inform you that as Congress have thought proper to make the Proposal, your Opinion will give them entire Satisfaction on the Subject.
