538 January?, 1781 hope you will remark that so long ago as Oct 26. 1779 the Powers you now have were voted to Mr. Laurens, 5 and would have been earlier, but from fear of embarrassing those whose Friendship we wished for. You will hear from yr. Family minutely I presume by Col. J Laurens. Affectionately yours, JL RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Endorsed by John Adams: “Mr Lovel, Jany. 2. 1781, Col. John Laurens.” 1 The FC of Adams’ September 20, 1780, letter to Lovell is in the Adams Papers, MHi. 2 Perhaps Congress’ December 12 resolve praising Adams’ “industrious attention” to American affairs. JCC, 19:1147. 3 See the letters to Adams from the Committee for Foreign Affairs and from Lovell of December 12 and 14, 1780, respectively. 4 The words printed in braces in this text were written by Lovell in a cipher based on the first two letters of the key word “Cranch.” 5 The powers vested in Henry Laurens in 1779 to negotiate a treaty and loan in the United Provinces had been granted to Adams on December 29, 1780. See Samuel Huntington to Adams, January 1 and 9, 1781. Lovell’s interest in Adams’ authority to negotiate a Dutch loan can also be seen in the following document, which is in Lovell’s hand although located among a group of undated manuscripts in the Samuel Adams Papers. Whether it was actually drafted by Lovell or perhaps by the committee appointed to instruct Adams is not known, but it contains significant information on the terms Congress expected to negotiate and details of how such a transaction might be arranged. “Plan of a Negociation, to Amt. of one Million Guilders, at the Charge of the United States of America. “His Excellcy. John Adams Esqr. Minister. Plenipo[tentiar]y of the sd. United States &c. &c. &c specially authorised to make a Loan, will distribute one thousand obligations, each for one thousand Guilders at the Interest of five pr. Ct. pr. An. to be paid on Coupons of 25 every six months. “The Reimbursement shall take place at the End of the tenth year, and at every of the first four Years following, each a fifth part, on two hundred obligations, by Way of Lottery to be made thereof in Time. “For the punctual payment of the Interest and Restitution of the Principal, the sd. States will be engaged jointly & each of them in Solidum for the whole. “The Obligations & Coupons will be signed by his Excellcy. John Adams Esqr. & countersigned by Messrs. John De Nieufville & Son, and prothocoll’d by the Notary Anthony Myluis where the authentic Translation of the Power will be to be seen And the Ratification will be deposited. The Subscription will be at the House of the aforementioned Messrs. John DeNieufville & Son on the first of March 1781 which will be the Date of the Obligations.” Samuel Adams Papers, NN. James Lovell to Samuel Holten Janry. 2d. 1781. Sir Some days ago I got Sight of one of my Letters to Mr. Gerry published by Jemmy Rivington, but tho’ I wrote to you on the same Novr. 20th. 1 1 do not find thro’ the same Channel what was the nature of the Scrawl. I have, at some time, told you that I should aim to
