January?, 1781 539 persuade my Colleagues to keep back the last Rule laid down by the Assembly for the Government of the Delegates of Mass, in Congress because from the very wording of the Resolve as well as from your Letter of a Date which I cannot now recollect, I am convinced that the intent was to oblige not more than 3 to attend on the Duties of the Delegation. 2 I have so far prevailed as to get the Gentlemen to wait for some Explanation, but we have agreed to be all together punctual in attending to give our Voice, that we may not become culpable if such was the real intent of the Resolve; but this very day proves what I before wrote, that I could be much more usefully employed in my Chamber than here in Congress, a packet boat being under absolute order for Sailing to France. The Paper of Dunlap is not a news Paper Today. Yours affectionately J.L. MS not found; reprinted from Essex Institute Historical Collections, 13 (July 1876): 224. 1 Not found. 2 See Lovell to Holten, December 19, 1780, note 1. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir Philada. Jany 2d. 1781. Yesterday’s post was the first that has failed to bring me a line from you since our correspondence commenced. I hope it has not been owing to any cause which concerns your health. We had it yesterday from under Genl Washington[’s] hand, that another embarkation is actually departed from N. York, amoun[ting. . .] to abt. 2500 troops. There is little d[oubt] that they will steer the same course with the preceding detachments. 1 Congress are under great anxiety for the States agst. which this accumulating force is to be directed, and the more so as the principal means of their defence is so little in their power. It is not so much the want of men as the want of subsistance, arms & cloathing, which results from the want of money that gives the greatest alarm. A disposition appears to do every thing practicable for their relief and defence. Mr. Harrison writes from Cadiz that the Combined fleets in that port, including 18 Ships from the W. Indies under Guichen, amounted to 68 Ships of the line. He offers no conjecture as to the manner in which they will be employed. 2 I am Dr Sir Yrs Sincerely, J. Madison Junr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:272. 1 See Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson, January 1, 1781, note 4. 2 In a letter dated October 23, 1780, merchant Richard Harrison notified the Committee for Foreign Affairs that “M. De Guichen with all his Convoy is now entering this Bay,” without specifying the number of ships. PCC, item 92, fol. 383.
