546 January 4, 1781 Means for obtaining the Exchange of the Honorable Henry Laurens Esquire. 1 From your own Inclination, as well as in Compliance with the Desire of Congress, I am perswaded you will make use of every Means in your Power to have that Gendeman liberated from his present Confinement and exchanged as soon as possible. Similar Directions are also given to the Honorable John Jay Esquire. 2 I have the Honor to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem & respect, sir, your most obedient & most humble Servant, Sami. Huntington President RC (PU: Franklin Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. i See JCC, 18:1179. 2 Huntington’s nearly identical letter of this date to Jay is in the Jay Papers, NNC. Samuel Huntington to Jean de Neufville & Son Gentlemen, 1 Philada January 4. 1780 [/.<?., 1781] 1 have herewith enclosed for your Information the Copy of a resolve of Congress of the 21st Ulto respecting two Bills of Exchange therein mentioned. 2 It is proper you should be further informed that Baron de Wulffen had no Demands on Congress, 3 or any right to expect they would answer his Drafts. But in Consideration of the Desires you have repeatedly manifested to serve these United States, Congress immediately ordered those Bills to be taken up and the Amount thereof paid for the Honor of the Indorsers; although they thought proper to have the Bills protested. I have received your Letters of the 10th of March & 28th of September, 4 and several others which are not now before me. I am Gentlemen &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 Jean de Neufville & Son, an Amsterdam firm seeking to expand its American business, had originally developed contacts with the United States through C.W.F. Dumas, Benjamin Franklin, and William Lee, and had explicitly offered its services to Congress in July 1779. It subsequently negotiated bills of exchange drawn on Congress, aided John Paul Jones in outfitting American vessels in Dutch ports, and worked to promote the missions of agents such as Jacob Diriks, Henry Laurens, and John Adams to obtain Dutch loans. Its extensive correspondence concerning American affairs is located primarily in PCC, item 145, and in “Papers Relating to Foreign Affairs” of the Miscellaneous Papers of the Continental Congress (microcopy 332, reel 4), DNA. 2 JCC, 18:1121, 1179-81. 3 Although the Board of Treasury had been authorized to honor the bills of baron
