550 January 6, 1781 Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir Philadelphia January 6. 1781 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, the Copy of a report of Committee and consequent resolve of Congress; with Copies of Letters from Mr Abraham Skinner & Mr David Sproat, and Memorial from George Lyman & others Prisoners in the Provost at New York. 1 By these Despatches you will see the cruel Treatment exercised by the Enemy towards the Prisoners in their Hands, and that in the Opinion of Congress an Exercise of the Law of retaliation is become necessary. Driven by Necessity from the unwarrantable & inhuman Practices of the Enemy, Congress have adopted the Measures directed in the foregoing resolve, which your Excellency will please to observe so far forth as they relate to your Province. I have also enclosed two Acts of Congress of the 2d & 3d Instant; by the former your Excellency will be informed of the Mode in which Colonel Armand may be permitted to recruit his Corps, and by the latter of the resignation of Doctor Shippen. 2 I have the Honor to be, with the highest regard, your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 These enclosures, all of which are in the Washington Papers, consisted of Congress’ January 5 resolves on prisoner treatment, a December 26 letter from commissary of prisoners Abraham Skinner to Thomas Bradford, a December 30 letter from commissary of naval prisoners David Sproat to a Captain Griffm, and a December 28 memorial to Congress from George Lyman and six other captive “Masters of Whale Boats.” See JCC, 19:24, 27—28; and PCC, item 53, fols. 141—44, 149-54. 2 See JCC, 19:9, 15. News of the acceptance of Shippen’s resignation as director general of hospitals had been communicated to the doctor by Huntington in a brief letter of transmittal on January 5. PCC, item 15, fol. 201. James Lovell to John Adams Dear Sir Jan 6th. 1780 [1781] I hope the Papers which you will receive by this opportunity will give you personal Satisfaction as well as facilitate the Purposes of yr. Commissions. I have already sent several Copies of the Doings of Congress of Deer. 12th. 1780 as follows. 1 “Congress took into Consideration the Report of the Comtee. to whom was referred the Letter of June 26 from the honble. John Adams, whereupon, Ordered That the sd. Letter be referred to the
