January?, 1781 555 them, and faith shall be pledged for their security. It is recommended to them for their own Safety to move behind South River, and whenever they request it a Body of British troops shall protect them. It is needless to point out the Inability as well as want of Inclination in Congress to relieve them or to tell them the Severities that will be used by the Rebel leaders towards them should they think of Returning to their former Servitude. It will be proved to the Commissioners they Choose to Send that the Authority from whence this Comes is Sufficient to Ensure the Performance of the above proposals. To the Person appointed by the Pennsylvania Troops to lead them in the Present struggle for their liberties and Rights. By order of the Committee of Congress, (Copy) J no Witherspoon RC and enclosure (DNA: PCC, item 152). In the hand of John Witherspoon. 1 For Henry Clinton’s efforts to exploit the mutiny of the Pennsylvania troops, and the misfortunes of the two British emissaries (John Mason and James Ogden) who carried the enclosed “Proposals” to the mutineers inviting them to seek “the Protection of the British Government,” see Van Doren, Mutiny in January, pp. 115-19, 150-59; and Hazard, Register of Pennsylvania, pp. 167-68, 188-90, 205. 2 See the committee’s letter to Joseph Reed, this date. Committee on the Pennsylvania Mutiny to the Commander at Brunswick or Elizabethtown Sr. 1 Trenton Jany. 7th 1781 The Committe of Congress now at Trenton have received authentic information that Commissioners 2 are sent to Amboy from N York to treat with the Pennsylvania troops (we Suppose tis South Amboy that is meant but it would be prudent to have both the Amboys in View). The Committe are of opinion you shd take such measures as appear most prudent and practicable, to get possession of those Commissioners. We are, Sr. Yr. most obedt. svts. In be half of the Committe, Jno Witherspoon P.S. The above is submitted to your Judgement accordg to the Situation of Affairs & the other Intelligence you may have received. 3 RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). Written by Theodorick Bland with postscript and signature by John Witherspoon. 1 This letter is addressed to “The Commanding Officer at Brunswick or Elizabeth town” in Hazard, Register of Pennsylvania, 2:188. 2 Witherspoon’s meaning is unclear, but he is probably referring to unidentified additional emissaries sent out by the British to treat with the Pennsylvania troops rather than the two seized this day who are the subject of the preceding entry. See, for example, Van Doren, Mutiny in January, p. 119.
