556 January?, 1781 3 Actually New Jersey had already taken steps “to surround Princeton and control the mutiny if possible,’’ stationing Continental troops at Morristown, Pompton, and Chatham, and positioning the militia at Brunswick, Elizabethtown, and South Amboy and along various roads to New York. Ibid., pp. 101-2. Committee on the Pennsylvania Mutiny to Joseph Reed Sir, Trenton Jany. 7th. 1781 The Committee of Congress are obliged to your Excellencys Communications by Col. Shields, 1 we esteem it a happy prelude to a return of the Troops to their Allegience. We doubt not your Excellencys improving so favourable a Symptom to bring the Matter to as speedy, safe and honorable an Issue as possible. The Committee will wait here for your further Communications of the progress you make and prepare themselves for every Event, to aid your Endeavours and to give them all the success, that the Powers vested in them by Congress can enable them to do. In name of the Committee in Genl Sullivan’s Absence, 2 Jno Witherspoon RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). Written and signed by Witherspoon. 1 If Reed’s “Communications” by Hugh Shiell were in writing, they have not been found. Reed wrote to the committee on January 6 at “3 o’clock,” but apparently sent the letter to Thomas Barclay with the notation: “This letter was designed for the committee, but as they came over the river, I send it to you to save repetition.” Hazard, Register of Pennsylvania, 2:164-65. 2 The cause of John Sullivan’s “absence” is not known, but he did sign the committee’s letter of this date to Washington, which was also written at Trenton, and for which see the following entry. Committee on the Pennsylvania Mutiny to George Washington Sir, Trenton January 7th. 1781 The Committee appointed by Congress to quiet the disturbances of the Pennsylvania Line &ca. think it proper to inform your Excellency that they arrived at this Place last night after dark; And that President Reed who acts in concert with us has proceeded to the neighbourhood of Princetown at which place those Troops are now posted. We Are happy to inform your Excellency that some favourable appearances of a speedy and honorable, as well as a safe Accommodation has appeared in their Conduct this Morning, as they have given an earnest of their Sincerity and intentions by no means
