560 January 8,1781 The foregoing Terms being accepted the Committee resolved that upon the Soldiers of the Pennsylvania Line delivering up the British Emissaries sent to corrupt them and submitting to their proper Officers they will publish a free and general Pardon for all Offences committed by the non commissioned Officers & Soldiers of the said Line from the 31st of Deer, last to this Time. RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). Written and signed by John Sullivan. Enclosure (DLC: Washington Papers). In the hand of John Witherspoon. 1 This is a reference to the first of the three letters Reed wrote to the committee this day, which is printed in Campbell, Bland Papers, 2:46-48; and Reed, Correspondence of Joseph Reed, 2:327-29. The second and third letters, written at “half past 2’oclock” and at “7 o’clock, P.M.,” are also in the Bland Papers, 2:44-45, as well as in the Correspondence of Joseph Reed, 2:326-27. 2 One of these enclosures consisted of the following “Proposals,” signed by Reed and James Potter, printed here from a broadside copy in the Washington Papers, rn c “PROPOSALS “Made to the pon-commissioned Officers and Soldiers of the Pennsylvania Line, at Princeton, ‘January 7, 1781. “His Excellency Joseph Reed, Esquire, President, and the Honourable Brigadier- General Potter, of the Council of Pennsylvania, having heard the Complaints of the Soldiers, as represented by the Sergeants, inform them, that they are fully authorized to redress reasonable Grievances, and they have the fullest Disposition to make them as easy as possible; for which End they propose, “First. That no non-commissioned Officer or Soldier shall be detained beyond the Time for which he freely and voluntarily engaged, but where they appear to have been in any Respect compelled to enter or sign, such Enlistment to be deemed void, and the Soldier discharged. “Secondly. To settle who are and who are not bound to stay, three Persons to be appointed by the President and the Council, who are to examine into the Terms of Enlistment;—where the original Enlistments cannot be found, the Soldier’s Oath to be admitted to prove the Time and Terms of Enlistment, and the Soldier to be discharged upon his Oath of the Condition of the Enlistment. “Thirdly. Where-ever any Soldier has enlisted for three Years or during the War, he is to be discharged, unless he shall appear afterwards to have re-enlisted voluntarily and freely.—The Gratuity of One Hundred Dollars given by Congress, not to be reckoned as a Bounty, or any Men detained in Consequence of that Gratuity.— The Commissioners to be appointed by the President and Council, to adjust any Difficulties which may arise on this Article also. “Fourthly. The Auditors to attend as soon as possible, to settle the Depreciation with the Soldiers and give them Certificates.—Their Arrearages of Pay to be made up as soon as Circumstances will admit. “Fifthly. A Pair of Shoes, Overalls and Shirt will be delivered to each Soldier in a few Days, as they are already purchased and ready to be sent forward, whenever the Line shall be settled.—Those who are discharged to receive the above Articles at Trenton, producing the General’s Discharge. “The President hopes that no Soldier of the Pennsylvania Line will break his Bargain, or go from the Contract made with the Public—and they may depend upon it, that the utmost Care will be taken to furnish them with every Necessary fitting for a Soldier.
