January 8,1781 561 “The President will recommend to the State to take some favourable Notice of those who engaged for the War. “The Commissioners will attend at Trenton, where the Clothing and the Stores will be immediately brought, and the Regiments to be settled with in their Order. A Field-Officer of each Regiment to attend during the Settlement of his Regiment. “Pursuant to General Wayne’s Orders of the 2d Instant, no Man to be brought to any Trial or Censure for what has happened on or since New-Year’s Day, but all Matters to be buried in Oblivion. Jos. Reed James Potter.” *In the printed broadside from which this text is taken, “Princeton” was inserted to correct “Trenton.” Similarly, in the two paragraphs following the fifth article, “President” was penned in to replace “Governor.” 3 The committee’s proposals, printed here as an enclosure, arrived too late to have an impact on this day’s negotiations, which resulted in a tentative settlement. The copy of the committee’s proposals in Hazard, Register of Pennsylvania, 2:138, bears an endorsement by Reed: “Received after my proposals were made and accepted and therefore not offered.” Reed’s response to this letter is in Campbell, Bland Papers, 2:49-50. *In the printed broadside from which this text is taken, “Princeton” was inserted to correct “Trenton.” Similarly, in the two paragraphs following the fifth article, “President” was penned in to replace “Governor.” 3 The committee’s proposals, printed here as an enclosure, arrived too late to have an impact on this day’s negotiations, which resulted in a tentative settlement. The copy of the committee’s proposals in Hazard, Register of Pennsylvania, 2:138, bears an endorsement by Reed: “Received after my proposals were made and accepted and therefore not offered.” Reed’s response to this letter is in Campbell, Bland Papers, 2:49-50. Georgia Delegates’ “Observations” [January 8, 1781] 1 Observations by the Delegates of Georgia. From the most recent accounts that have been received from Europe, there is the greatest reason to expect that a new commission will issue from the court of London, for the purpose of again sounding the temper of America, upon the subject of a pacification; in which the state of Georgia, and perhaps that of South-Carolina, will not be regarded as part of the American Union, but excluded as having been again colonized to England by new conquest. The uti possidetis also has been much talked of in Europe, as a probable basis for the peace; and this report, although rejected with marks of abhorrence by all descriptions of men in America, circulates with terrors, as it is pretended to be drawn from the armed Neutrality. The people who would be particularly affected by the operation of such principles, ought to fear every thing; although justice, humanity and the interests of America, and her friends, forbid them to dread any thing. They united in the one cause, and have sacrificed their blood and fortunes in it’s support; and therefore it would be unjust and
