562 January 8, 1781 inhuman, for the other parts of the Union, separately to embrace the result of the common efforts, and leave them under the yoke of a bankrupt and enraged tyrant. To preserve the States entire, is the object of the alliance with France, and it cannot be the interest of the other great branch of the family compact, that we should again make a part of the British empire. We will not, however, enter into any farther discussion of this subject, than will be sufficient to shew the importance of the question as it respects our own State, leaving to others to speak of their interests. In point of commerce, no part of North-America has given such presages of importance, as the colony and state of Georgia. From the conclusion of the last war, when it could scarcely be called a province of England, to the commencement of the present, the rapid increase of it’s exports is scarcely to be equalled in any part of the world, as appears by Brown’s aggregate, [see page ll] 2 and other authentic documents. The principal articles of exportation before the war, were rice, indigo, and skins, to Europe, and lumber, horses, and provisions to the West-Indies: but since, the necessities of the citizens, and the liberty left to every man to pursue his own schemes, have been the source of new discoveries. Tobacco has been cultivated with the most astonishing success, by men who have emigrated from Virginia. Upon trial, it has been found, that both the climate and the soil are better adapted to the cultivation of this plant than those of Virginia: the vegetation being more rapid, and the season longer, the planter is enabled to produce two good crops in the year; whereas one only can be obtained in Virginia and Maryland. The face of the earth is less broken, and, therefore, the soil is richer, although of the same species: nor is the quality otherwise than superior. About the beginning of this war, Mr. Hammond made several hogsheads from a field at the Walnut Hills near Augusta, which, being sent to London, sold for a farthing per pound more than the best from Virginia and Maryland; although he had not all the conveniences (it being the first attempt) necessary for the well-curing the plant. It is a fact, that, had the State remained uninterrupted by the enemy’s army, two thirds of the planters, in the year 1779, would have turned their attention almost wholly upon tobacco, it being in more demand than rice or indigo. Upon several other trials also, it has been found, that hemp and cotton grow in the greatest luxuriance, and may be cultivated to much advantage: and the interior country abounds in iron ore. Advantages such as these, apply of themselves: but when we consider the amazing variety, and extensive usefulness of the productions of this State, the parties in this war against England must see, in a still stronger point of view, the necessity of keeping it out of her hands. This is not all: an object of still greater importance must be considered. The coast of Georgia is approached by a gradual ascent from the gulph
