January 8, 1781 563 of Florida, which runs nearly parallel with it; and her bars and inlets are superior to any on the southern part of the Continent. She has besides, the best timbers in the world for building ships of war: her islands and seaboard abound in live-oak trees; the wood of which is the firmest and most resisting against assaults, and the least prone to decay, of any which has yet been discovered. Some time before this contest, the British merchants in Georgia were encouraged by government, to build large merchant vessels of this timber, with a view to convert them into frigates, in case of a war which was then near taking place with France. The scheme, however, was not pursued far, on account of the dispute with America. Congress too, since the war, have been so sensible of the utility of getting ships of this wood, that, in the latter end of the year 1776, they directed the Marine Committee to send persons to Georgia to cut timbers for a seventy-four gun ship, and four frigates. Moulds were made in Philadelphia, and Mr. Donaldson was employed, and went and cut the timbers, and planned a continental yard upon Sutherland’s Bluff, along side of which a seventy-four gun ship, it is said, can ride with perfect safety, and near which place the timbers now lie. This gentleman, upon his return to Philadelphia, reported to the marine office, that the best of timbers of every kind, for building any number and sizes of ships, might be had in Georgia. However, this plan of augmenting the American marine could not be prosecuted, the enemy having got possession of the coast in the latter part of the year 1778. An extract of an official letter to the Marine Committee, now in the admiralty-office at Philadelphia, from Mr. Wereat, the Agent of Congress in that State, and who had resided upon different parts of the Sea-board upwards of twenty years, will give some idea of the importance of this object. He says: “The live-oak timber in this State is exceeding good and plenty: it is to be found for large ships, in the greatest quantity, upon the sea-islands. The largest I have observed is on the island of Black-beard, which is not far from the middle of our coast. Sappelo inlet is the best water of any on this part of the continent: from the best information, there is about five fathom at high water, and a fine bold channel from thence up to Sutherland’s Bluff, on the main land, distant about twelve miles, on and near which place there is good timber. “There is likewise to be got near this spot, fine pine timber for plank, which may be cut from thirty to fifty feet long, and upwards. “There is another place about forty miles to the southward of the former, very proper for the same purpose, called Brunswick, which has a communication by St. Simon’s inlet, at the south end of the island of that name. It has a good bar, and a forty gun ship has been in there at the first settlement of the country by General Oglethorpe. If I recollect right, there is twenty-five feet upon the bar at high water, and a good channel.
