572 January 8,1781 have been hurt by any Branches of our Operations, all Endeavor should be made to lighten the Harm. But I need not address [. . .] to your Kind Feelings towards sufferers, I will only say on this as Tully did on most Occasions “I recommend her Case, and wish she may find my Recommendation to have been useful.” I missed by a few Moments the Opportunity of bidding your very amiable Wife 3 a tender Adieu. I would not have told her, as I do you, that I love and esteem her greatly, but really my Friend I would have tryed to imprint it on her Cheeck. I see Jemmy Rivington has catched you. He is a Telltale Scoundrel, is he not? You would smile to hear what Work Interpreters make here of my References to some Salt Mackrel which Gerry promised to send to Mrs. Clymar. And they make my Abreviation of Massachusetts relate to romish Mass. Genl. Warren’s Account with the Commercial Comtee. is mistaken for Something against Religion because his name was gutted Genl. W , 4 The Draughts you made are nearly discharged by the Treasurer, and I have reed, the last Payment from Mr. Hodgden for the Goods sold to him. I do not recollect whether I have not before desired to know whether any Thing is so decided [....] for yr. Deputies: as to enable me to form a Judgment about my Son’s Situation 5 with Col. Hatch. 6 I hope he is enabled to feed and cloath himself. Your Friend and humble Servt. James Lovell [P. S. ] Majr. Rogers was yesterday brought Prisoner, taken near Penobscot R. RC (MHi: Pickering Papers). 1 Not identified. 2 Lovell wrote in the margin at this point: “30 dollrs.” 3 That is, Rebecca White Pickering. 4 For the meaning of this cryptic reference, see Lovell to Elbridge Gerry, November 20, 1780, notes 3 and 6. 5 Which of Lovell’s several sons is referred to here is unclear, but the eldest, James, was an adjutant in Henry Lee’s Corps then serving in the Carolinas. 6 That is, Col. Jabez Hatch, deputy quartermaster general for Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Rhode Island. Jesse Root to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Please your Excellency Philadelphia Jany. 8th 1781 About 8 oClock last Monday night the Pensylvania line mutinyed the 1st & 5th Regiments remained on the ground, but were forced by the others to Join, Two Captains were killed, Several Subalterns & privates wounded in attempting to Suppress them—they marched in a body to Prince Town, in Spite of every Effort their officers to
