January 8,1781 573 reduce them to order—where they remain under the Command of the Sergeants with guards posted, Genl Waine, Cols. Stewart & Buttler are at Prince Town, to whom the Mutineers have Sent a guard. President Reed went to Princetown last Friday & a Committee from Congress are at Trentown. Their Greivances are 1st: that many of them enlisted for three years or during the war—& are held in Service over the three years by vertue of Such enlistment. 2nd: that they have not received their pay or Cloathing—but what had great influence in raising the mutiny was—recruiting Officers Coming among them with hard money to enlist the Seven months men who had received large Sums for the Seven months Service. This was too much for them to bear. Last Saturday a Spy with a guide from Genl Clinton Came into their Camp with proposals a Copy of which is enclosed. They took them both & Sent them with the proposals to Genl Wayne—who Sent them to Trenton where they are Safely lodged in goal. Two vessels arrived yesterday from France but bring no public despatches. They were but partly freighted Saw the public Cloathing at LOreant Could have Brot. Some of them but no body appeared to Ship them altho, they advertised their want of freight—however they Say that a large east India man is Coming round to LOreant to take them in—they say that 9 Ships of the line & 4,000 Troops are at Nants ready to Sail Supposed to be for America. No New material from the Southward Since my last—the embarkation that lately took place at Newyork under Arnold, Genl. Washington Informs Consisted of about 1600 men and Are supposed to be gone to the Southward. The Time for paying the army is arrived—the plan of the 18th of March last is productive of very little Money yet—& appears more & more dubious. I think there must be a total reform of the system. Congress must exercise the proper powers & Establish all the necessary Executive boards & offices— and as the Wealth of a nation is the aggregate wealth of its Citizens— the spring of industry and economy the prospect of advantage, which, prospect, will be more or less Opperative according to the Opinion the people have of the Justice of the government under which they live, the Security it affords to property & the liberty it gives to every one to make the most of what they have to put off in an honest way to remove therefore all fetters & our embarressments on Trade, except with the Enemy, omit to force upon any person paper bills for money—& to take measures to encourage Industry & CEconomy, & to revive the Confidence of the people in the Justice of their rulers. I think is the only natural & wise method to extricate Ourselves from our present embarrassments into which we are brot. in Some measure by unnatural Expedients. This will lay a foundation to enable the Citizens to pay largely for the public use of & give government firmness & Support—but
