576 January 9, 1781 storm, which we have the best reason to imagine they had to encounter. This circumstance we flatter ourselves, will be attended with many advantages, as it will necessarily cause delay on their part, & give the longer time for your reinforcements coming in. And further, that our Express, will reach you before they can, & although the notice of their approach may be short, yet it will be of consequence. We are Sir, with much Esteem & regard, yr. most Obedt. servts. In behalf of the Committee, Jno Mathews Chairman RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Written and signed by John Mathews. 1 Not identified, but perhaps copies of the resolutions concerning prisoners of war that President Huntington sent to Greene and to the states this date. 2 See the Committee to Greene, January 4, 1781. Committee on the Pennsylvania Mutiny to Samuel Huntington Sir, Trenton, Jany 9th 1781 Since our Last Dispatch by Mr.Duer forwarded this morning 1 we have received further Intelligence from President Read 2 Informing that the Pensylvania Line had <agreed>in consequence of a recquisition for that purpose & the Terms offered them to March to this Town. They are now viz 2 o’Clock within two miles of Town & Some of them are already Arrived. We flatter ourselves that they will here receive their officers and that The unhappy Dispute will be brought to a favorable Issue. Should we be Disappointed in our hopes Yet the bringing forward, the Troops to this place will be gaining a great point in Case other than Lenient Measures Should become necessary. I have the honor to be with much Esteem yr. Excys most obedt. Servt, by order of the Committee, Jno. Sullivan RC (DNA: PCC, item 152). Written and signed by John Sullivan. 1 Apparently the committee’s January 8 letter to Huntington. 2 Undoubtedly the second and third letters from Joseph Reed of January 8, for which see the Committee to Reed, January 8 (2d letter), note 1. Committee on the Pennsylvania Mutiny to William Livingston Trenton Jany. 9th. 1781 Sir, In Committee of Congress The Committee of Congress think it absolutely necessary as they have received information from his Excellency Govr. Reid that the
