578 January 9, 1781 for the term of three years or during the war, excepting those whose terms of enlistments are not expired, ought to be discharged immediately with as little delay as circumstances will allow, except such soldiers who have voluntarily re-enlisted—in case that any soldier should dispute his enlistment, it is to be settled by a committee, and the soldier’s oath. The remainder of his Excellency’s & the Honbl. Board of Committees proposal is founded upon honour and justice, but in regard to the Hon’ble Board setting forth that there will be appointed three persons to sit as a Committee to redress our grievances, it is therefore, the general demand of the line, and the Board of Serjeants, that we shall appoint as many members as of the opposite to sit as a Committee to determine justly upon our unhappy affairs, as the path we tread is justice and our footsteps founded upon honor. “Therefore we unanimously do agree that there should be something done towards a speedy redress of our present circumstances. “Signed by order of the Board, Wm. Bouzar, Sec’y.” Committee on the Pennsylvania Mutiny to George Washington Dear General, Trenton J any 9 th 1781 I have the Honor to Inclose your Excy. by Direction of the Committee a Copy of a Letter from Govr Read 1 with Copy of the proposals made by the Committee to the Mutineers 2 of the Pensylvania Line by which first it appears That they are Determined to Accept of the Terms offered & we flatter ourselves That this unhappy Dispute will Soon be brought to a favorable Issue. I have the Honor to be, Most Respectfully yr. Excys most obedt Servt, Jno. Sullivan RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Written and signed by John Sullivan. 1 This January 8 letter has been printed in Campbell, Bland Papers, 2:46-48; and Reed, Correspondence of Joseph Reed, 2:327-29. 2 See the enclosure to the committee’s second letter to Joseph Reed, January 8, 1781. Samuel Huntington to John Adams Sir, Philadelphia January 9. 1781 You will receive herewith enclosed a Duplicate of my Letter of the first Instant and the several Papers it covered; to which are now added and herewith transmitted two Letters of Credence under Cover, the one addressed to the Prince Stadtholder, and the other to their high Mightinesses the States General, with Copies of both for your Information. 1 With the highest respect, I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington President
