586 January 10,1781 has been pursued by the Committee to Accomplish the Business Intrusted in them. I have the Honor to be, with the most perfect Esteem, Yr. Excys Most obedt Servt, J no - Sullivan RC (DNA: PCC, item 152). Written and signed by John Sullivan. Committee on the Pennsylvania Mutiny to Samuel Huntington Si r Barcleys House Jany 10th 1781 I have now the honor of Inclosing your Excellency by Direction of the Committee, The answer of the Pensylvania Troops to Certain Requisitions made by us by which it appears that they are Sincerely Disposed to Setde the Dispute upon Reasonable Terms 1 and we doubt not of having the matter brought to a Speedy Issue. General Clinton has Sent another Emissary with additional proposals of a more advantageous & alluring nature. The Messenger came to General Wayne & Revealed the purpose of his Mission & now remains with him. 2 We also Inclose your Excellency Copy of the Last Intelligence received from the Jersy Shore. Messrs Barcley and McClanaghan Inform us that they have a vessel ready to Sail for France from Philadelphia & have generously offered to Detain her untill this unhappy Dispute is Terminated Lest Some unfavorable impression Should be made in Europe respecting our affairs. This Generous offer we have Embraced & will give you the Earliest Notice of the Accommodations that the vessel may not be Detained Longer than is necessary and that Congress may have an opportunity of Transmitting by that vessel a True State of the Affair. I have the honor to be most respectfully yr Excys most obedt Servt, Jno Sullivan RC (DNA: PCC, item 20). Written and signed by John Sullivan. 1 This enclosure was apparently the following note of this date to Pres. Joseph Reed from Daniel Connell on behalf of the board of sergeants. “Pursuant to your Excellency’s demand concerning the two Emissaries from the Brittish the Board of Committee—Resolved that those Men shou’d be delivered up to the Supreme Authority in order to shew that we wou’d remove every Doubt of Suspicion and Jealousy. Also that the Men may disperse upon being discharged—they delivering up their Arms, &c.” See PCC, item 20, 2:107-8; and Hazard, Register of Pennsylvania, 2:205. 2 The identity of this “Messenger’ ’ is not known, but for the story of the additional emissaries sent out by Sir Henry Clinton at this time, i.e., in addition to John Mason and James Ogden, see Van Doren, Mutiny in January, pp. 168-76.
