588 January 11,1781 Pennsylvania troops; James Potter represented the Pennsylvania Council, and delegate Samuel J. Adee, formerly lieutenant colonel commandant of a Pennsylvania musket battalion, represented Congress. For the work of the commission, see ibid., pp. 194-203. See also Atlee to Joseph Reed, January 16, 1781. Committee on the Pennsylvania Mutiny to Samuel Huntington Sir, Barcley’s House Jany 11th 1781 I have the Honor to inform Your Excellency by Direction of the Committee That the Two British Emissaries who were yesterday Delivered up by the Pensylvania Troops have been Tryed and Condemned by a Board of officers & will be Executed This morning. This Cuts off all Prospects of a reconciliation between the Troops and Sir Henry Clinton. The Commissioners appointed to Determine who ought to be Discharged are now Sitting. 1 Genl. Waine has gone to Penny Town 2 to bring in the Commanding officers of the Respective Regiments to Take their Command & we flatter ourselves that This Day will Terminate the affair. They have not as yet Dissolved their Board of Serjeants Though it is probable they will do it upon the Arival of their officers. I have the Honor to be with the most perfect Esteem Your Excellys most obedient Servant, Jno. Sullivan RC (DNA: PCC, item 152). Written and signed by John Sullivan. 1 See the preceding entry, note 2. 2 That is, Pennington, N.J., about ten miles west of Princeton, where the displaced officers of the Pennsylvania line had collected following the mutiny to await their reinstatement. The committee’s prediction that the officers were about to resume their commands was premature, since the estrangement of the mutineers from their officers was one of the sticking points in reaching a settlement. For the continued “stubborn resentment” of the men with their officers, and the unhappiness of the Pennsylvania officers over the subordinate position to which they had been relegated during the mutiny, see Van Doren, Mutiny in January, pp. 196-200. Charles Thomson to Richard Peters Sir, J an y U- 1781 Baron d’Arendt preferred a memorial to Congress, desiring to have an act passed approving the reasons of his absenting himself over the time allowed by his furlough. 1 This was referred to the board of War. He now complains that the board has not reported on that matter and he desires to know whether Congress will continue him in service and employ him in negotiating between the United States & the court of Prussia or in the line of the Army or in both. As to
