January 16, 1781 605 particular State—and thereby extend the publick Credit by establishing a Revenue purely National. We cannot Say but that Sentiments of this kind may be thot improper. But when We find Ourselves charged in our political Capacity with the Violations of Ingagments—And feel the loss of National Credit—these Sentiments Appear to us just. What has been principally talked of and expected, to obtain this End, has been a Cession to the United States of their unlocated Territory and that the States Vest Congress with exclusive Power to regulate Foraign Commerce and to lay reasonable Dutys upon Imports and Exports. This is a Measure Not yet agreed to, and We cannot Say what will be done in Regard to it. Before We close this Letter We cannot but express our Grief that a People who generally possess the most Ardent Desires to establish their Libertys upon the fullest Conviction of their high Importance, That a Country abounding with Men and Supplies, yet from a Defect in their Constitution or Councils or both of them, should not seem to have it in their Power to call them forth with more-Advantage— And altho our past Experience has proved to us that our Exertions have been Aided by the Almighty—And that our Cause is supported by Two of the Belligerent Powers of Europe and countenanced We believe by all the Rest, except our open and professed Enemys, yet We seem to be in a Condition as if We did not possess those Advantages. This Strange Situation can hardly be otherwise Accounted for, than that the National Principles from whence Union and Force are to be derived are not properly established—And it may with equal Propriety be Said—That proper Arrangments to Ascertain and check the publick Expenditures have not yet been made—And that there is a general Defect in the Establishment of the civil executive Departments Acting immediately under Congress. These Objects are likewise in Contemplation and may possibly be put upon a more Advantagious footing. We have No Intilligence to communicate to your Excellency but what you will find in the publick Papers. We are with every Sentiment of Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient, humble Servant, Oliver Wolcott Jesse Root RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Wolcott and signed by Wolcott and Root. 1 Samuel Huntington’s January 15, 1781, circular letter to the states is in JCC, 19:57-61.
