January 16,1781 607 very fast below them, I am in hopes the Virginians will Exert themselves on this occasion and Catch that Scoundrel Arnold. Congress are Endeavouring to Devise Some mode to pay for the flour Seised by Virtue of your Excellencys warrant for that purpose to our State agent, and Communicated to Congress by General Washington. However desireous they may be to make Compensation for the provisions thus Obtained Yet they are put to Difficulties to know from whence the money can be obtained for that purpose. 1 By the Circular Letter from Congress which you will Receive about the time youl Receive this, 2 your Excellency will Discover the Embarrassd Circumstances of America—and it is to be hoped that the Delinquent States when they See the Danger which awaits them and the Continent in General, by Reason of their neglect or inattention, that they will be Induced to Exertions beyond what they have Yet made. Congress are fully Sensible of the Exertions of the State of New York in this Contest, But as that Letter is Circular, it is proper that our State Should Receive one. After Wishing you the Compliments of the Season I Subscribe my Self your Most Obedt. and humble Servt. Wm.Floyd RC (N: Clinton Papers). Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 6:578-80. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 The question of compensation for New York’s flour was brought before Congress on December 29 in an extract from George Clinton’s December 15 letter to George Washington, who enclosed it in his December 22, 1780, letter to Samuel Huntington. The letters were referred to a five-man committee chaired by Floyd. JCC, 18:1203; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:1-2. 2 See JCC, 19:57-61. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia January 16. 1781 I have the Honor to transmit your Excellency the enclosed Copy of a Circular Letter to the several States from Pennsylvania to New Hampshire inclusive, which will give you the needful Information of the present Measures Congress have adopted to procure the Pay of the Army &c? Hope that your Excellency’s Letter to the Eastern States, on the same Subject (Copy of which I have been honored with) may have a good Effect; 2 yet to me it seems absolutely necessary that more certain & permanent Funds should be obtained to defray the Expence of the War than hath been hitherto devised, and which ought to be the principal Object of Congress, and will, I trust, claim their continued Attention until accomplished in the best possible Measure our Circumstances will admit.
