610 January 16, 1781 The trade of this City has just suffered a very severe blow. No less than seven fine Vessels have been taken out of an Outward bound fleet & carried into N. York. I am Dr. Sir Yrs. very sincerely, James Madison Junr. [P. y ] The Emissary from Clinton with his guide were executed on Saturday morning last. 3 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:286-87. 1 Not found. 2 For the Virginia assembly’s appointment of this “Delegate Extraordinary,” see Madison to Joseph Jones, December 12, 1780, note 3. 3 The British emissaries had in fact been executed on Thursday, January 11. North Carolina Delegates to John Laurens Sir Philadelphia Jany. 16th. 1781 A particular knowledge of the State of the country which we have the honor to represent in Congress, being so necessary for enabling you to give a just Idea of the situation of the affairs of the united States to his most Christian Majesty and his Ministers, and your own attention having been so much engaged in the business of the field, as probably to have prevented your attending to the acquiring of such knowledge, we presume our Ideas will not be entirely useless and therefore we offer them to you. 1 North Carolina, which once afforded great abundance of provisions for its own inhabitants and a considerable quantity for exportation, has, by natural casualties and the events of the war, been reduced so as to afford but a scanty supply for the inhabitants. The events of the war have occasioned embargoes and great difficulty of exporting bulky articles, such as provisions and consequently lessened the demand; the objects of agriculture soon were confined to the support of the husbandman and his family and very little surplus was produced. Considerable drafts of the husbandmen were frequently made to oppose the Indian and British enemy who attacked the States of South Carolina and Georgia, and this also very much deranged the agriculture of the country. For near twelve months past the western country has been the theatre of the most wasteful ravage committed reciprocally by irregular bands of Whigs & Tories—by troops who were very ill supplied—by the enemy under Ferguson before the defeat at Kings Mountain and by those under Lord Cornwallis before his retreat from Charlotte. Natural casualties have been peculiarly unfavourable. One year the crops very generally failed on the upland through extreme drought and the low lands on the rivers, which are in general exceedingly
