January 16,1781 611 fertile and productive were wasted by innundations which were the effect of heavy rains that succeeded the long drought. The next year a blast destroyed the wheat so generally that it became difficult to procure seed for a very small proportion of the grounds which were usually cultivated for that grain, so that the succeeding crops, tho very good, were very small in quantity. The last season was happy in affording fine crops of every thing and had not the derangements before mentioned circumscribed agriculture in general and its product near the seat of the war, provisions could be had in great plenty for a considerable army. What remains in the western part of the country must be brought very slowly and with great difficulty to the magazines from which the troops are to be supplied, because the constant waste of carriages and draught cattle had made transportation extremely difficult. The lower part of the country which is not exhausted and would furnish a good quantity of provisions, is so remote from the scene of war in the back country that in our present circumstances no aid can be derived from it by land transportation. The resources of Virginia are very plentiful but are also at too great a distance to be relied on for extensive operations. Thus Sir, you see we are in a very ill condition to oppose an enemy who can convey their supplies up the rivers of South Carolina near to the [scene of] action, while ours are at a prodigious distance widely scattered, capable of transportation only by land, and the means of that transportation extremely difficult. From this view you will clearly perceive how important an object it is to attack the enemy on the sea coast in such force as to oblige them to withdraw their troops from the interior country and this under the auspicies of a naval superiority. The scene of war would then be removed to a country where positions could be taken with advantage and supplies furnished in abundance through the navigable rivers, bays and sounds of Virginia, North and South Carolina. With the highest consideration, we have the honor to be, Sir, Your Most Obedient and most humble Servants, Tho Burke Wm. Sharpe Sam Johnston RC (NcD: Henry Laurens Manuscripts). Written by Sharpe and signed by Sharpe, Burke, and Johnston. 1 For other efforts to provide Laurens with current information on conditions in various states, see Thomas Burke to Laurens, December 26, and Oliver Wolcott to Laurens, December 27, 1780.
