January 20, 1781 615 I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, Sir, your most obedt & most hbble Servant, Sami. Huntington President RC (MdAA: Red Books). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 For the enclosed resolve and the recommendations of the Board of War upon which it was based, see JCC, 19:65-66; and PCC, item 147, 6.1-11. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Si r Philadelphia January 18. 1781 Your Excellency will be informed by the enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress of the 17th Instant that Doctor John Cockran is elected Director General in the room of Doctor Shippen resigned, 1 That Mr John Pierce is elected Paymaster, 2 and also that some Alterations are made in the late Plan for conducting the Hospital Department. I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See Huntington to John Cochran, this date. 1 See JCC, 19:48, 65, 72. Huntington also sent a copy of this resolve this day with a brief cover letter to Pierce. PCC, item 15, fol. 220. Samuel Huntington to Caesar Rodney Si r> Philadelphia January 20. 1781 I have the Honor to transmit your Excellency the enclosed Copy of a resolve of Congress of this Day, by which you will be informed that I am directed to represent to the Executive of Delaware State the Necessity of forming Magazines of Flour contiguous to the Army. And to request you in the strongest Terms that the Quota of Flour from your State may be sent forward by Water to Trenton without Delay. 1 You will readily conceive the Difficulty of Land Carriage for any great Distance at this Season, and from the latest Accounts respecting the State of the Magazines of Flour near the Army, should the Quota of Flour from the State of Delaware fail of being forwarded agreeable to the foregoing request the Consequence is much to be dreaded. I have the Honor to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem & respect, Sir, your most obedt & most hbble Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (CtY: William Griswold Lane Collection). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. i JCC, 19:73.
