628 January 27, 1781 fixing the Time to the first of August last conformable to the Pay in the Line of the Army. 4 I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington President P.S. I have been Honourd with your favour of the 23d instant. 5 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 The enclosed petition from eight American prisoners, dated “Long Island, November 5, 1780,” which had been read and referred to committee on December 9, is in the Washington Papers, DLC. SeeJCC, 18:1132, 19:92-93. In his February 13 response, Washington explained that he could not exchange the petitioners because the British claimed that they must be exchanged at the rank they held in their militias, which would both inflate their exchange value and encourage the enemy to conduct raids to capture militiamen simply to exchange them for British regulars. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:219. 2 See JCC, 19:76-77. 3 These words were omitted by Huntington’s clerk from the RC but appear in the presidential letterbook, PCC, item 15, fol. 225. ♦ JCC, 19:90-91. 5 This letter, which was read in Congress January 29, is in PCC, item 152, 9:515-16; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:135-36. John Sullivan to Alexander McDougall Dear Sir Philadelphia Jany 27th 1781 As you have had the Politeness to undertake in the affair between Mr Burk & myself it becomes my Duty to acquaint you with the Facts. 1 I am Convinced you would never Espouse the Cause of any Man who had been guilty of ungentlemanly Conduct or Condemn one who has not willingly Transgressed by a wanton Departure from the Rules of Propriety. As it is imposible to know how this Dispute may Terminate: a Desire to vindicate my own reputation; and to Enable you Clearly to Decide upon the Justice, & Propriety, of the Part you have been polite Enough to undertake: I take the Liberty of Laying before you the following State of Facts. A few Days after the Battle of Brandiwyne I received a Letter from a member of Congress in these words, 2 “I find Some of the Southern members are Determined to ruin your reputation, one of them has accused you of the most Shameful Conduct at the Battle of Brandiwyne in which action he pretends to have had a Considerable hand & asserts that he assisted to rally your broken Troops which you had not Sufficient Skill to do yourself & that to your ill Arangement, bad Disposition of your Troops & misconduct the Loss of the Battle Ought to be attributed: Congress have in Consequence Suspended you from the Service.” As no name was mentioned I was totally at a Loss to Guess the Person. I was rather Led to believe
