630 January 27,1781 it was Either Mr Penn or Mr Smith, the former of which I know corresponded with Major Taylor who was my accuser in the affair of Staten Island. With how much Justice this accusation was made you who have Sat in Judgment upon the affair can Easily Determine. 3 I had been informed that Mr Penn was warm in Supporting that Accusation against me In Congress. I was Informed that both Mr Penn & Mr Smith were members of Congress & that Mr Smith was a near relation of Lieut Colo Smith who was an assistant to Major Taylor in the affair of Staten Island. I had been Informed that they were both in the Action of Brandywine. I was therefore Led to believe it was one of those Gentlemen but could [no<] Determine with Certainty. I recollected to have Seen Several Gentlemen on Horseback riding in a field where General Washington was near a mile & a half from the Place of Action. I Supposed them volunteers but was Informed that there were among them Some members of Congress but who I did not then inquire, my Letter therefore of the 6th of October 4 was Like Drawing a Bow at a venture & had Mr Burk Sent to Inquire whether I meant to Censure him for any thing he had Said against me in Congress I Should have replyed that I never once heard that he had Mentioned my name. He was the first Person that gave me the Information by Letter 5 in which you will find that he not only Tells me what he had Said in Congress but makes a number of assertions founded in mistake. So far then as respected Mr Burks Declarations in Congress it became my Duty to remove Every impression it had made & in my Letter to Congress Inclosing the written Declarations of General Washington & others I considered Mr Burk as a member of that Body & I think Treated him with Decency but in his Letter written to me wherein he undertakes to Accuse me to myself &. Threatens to call me to Account as a Gentleman & Demands an Explanation of my Letter; I by no means Considered him as a member of Congress but as a Private Gentleman & as Such replied to his assertions made to myself, after which I considered all our Correspondence as between two private Gentlemen & that he had Either by Accident or Design Deprived himself of the Robes of Authority. I am not Clearly convinced that a member of Congress has a right to Take what Liberties he thinks proper with the Character of an officer and I think I can never be brought to believe that he can have a Priviledge of writing to any Gentleman Accusing him of want of Capacity & Every thing that would make him contemptible in the Eyes of the world & the other be Barred from replying with Spirit becase his Accuser was a member of Congress. I therefore considered myself at full Liberty at Least to return Acrimony for Acrimony. I am not possessed of the Correpondence, But I understand Mr Burk has all but my Last Letter from Rhode Island about which we Shall have no Difficulty as the words Said to be Exceptionable are 6 “The Several assertions in your Letter are as far from Truth as I Deem
