January 27,1781 631 the assertor to be from a Gentleman of Honor or Candor.” These words or Some others of the Same purport were undoubtedly used. But then it was in return to a Letter full of Invectives against me repeating the Charges which were first urged by him against me. I knew that Mr Burk had Seen the written Declaration of the principal officers who were with me in the Battle of Brandiwine in which they Declare me not Guilty of the Blunders, the want of presence of mind &c of which he had Accused me, as also the Declaration of the Maryland Officers That they had the utmost Confidence in Me & the Declarations of the Commander in Chief Acquitting me of any kind of Neglect & Declaring that though the falsity of the Intelligence Transmitted through me proved unfortunate yet he Should have Deemed me Culpable if I had withheld it. I at the Same time had been Informed previous to the receipt of this Letter That Mr Burk had through the Influence of Major Taylor been violently against me in the affair of Staten Island. I could not therefore As I was unacquainted with Mr Burk but by writing Avoid Supposing that he Shew a great want of Candor in refusing to alter his opinion upon the Evidence Sent to Congress & of Honor in not acknowledging the Error. Perhaps if I had had the pleasure of being personally Acquainted with Mr Burk I might have Supposed his Conduct to have proceeded from an unbounded zeal in the Cause of his Country & the too great Credence he gave to persons in whom he then thought he might Confide but under the then Circumstances I could not Surely form any favorable opinion of him. Besides I Supposed myself at as full Liberty to give Mr Burk my opinion of him as he had to give his opinion of me to myself in a Letter to which mine was only an answer & further I conceived and yet do, that if any Gentleman writes me a Letter full of invectives I have a Right to return a Language of the same kind, in vindication of myself without Examining Strictly into the Truth of the assertions provided his assertions are unjust for he is in that Case the first aggressor. In Support of this opinion unless I Should be convinced of Error, I am ready to make the Last appeal. I would never wish it to be believed in any Event, that I appealed to Arms to Try the Issue, whether Mr Burk was not a man of Honor, Candor or Integrity but to vindicate my right to retaliate when I am first attacked without Cause. Thus Sir have I given you a faithful narrative of the whole Transaction which you will find fully Supported by the papers. This will Enable you whatever may be the Issue of this Dispute to vindicate my reputation & Justify the friendly part you have politely agreed to take. I have the Honor to be very respectfully, Dr Sir, your most obedient Servt, Jno Sullivan RC (NHi: McDougall Papers). 1 General McDougall had recently accepted Sullivan’s invitation to act as his
