638 January 29,1781 with this subject I will take the liberty from time to time of informing you of our determinations. In the mean time, what I have already mentioned may serve to fill up some of your vacant hours, to contimplate on. The policy or impolicy of the plan, is a matter of no small moment. In a letter lately received by Congress from Mr. Dumas (a private Agent imployed by them in Holland) he says, The British Minister at the court of Petersburgh, has offered on the part of his Master to accede to the northern Convention, provided the United Provinces were excluded. This has alarmed their High Mightinesses not a little. And I fancy will induce an immediate recession in their demands of a guarantee of their East India possessions. The blundering policy of the British Ministry for the last five or six years, must open a most fertile field for a commentary by the historian of those days. Had they studied ’till dooms day for a mode to strengthen the northern league, they could not have devised a more effectual one; for this brings Holland immediately into an accession, which has been the only thing hitherto wanted, to compleat that formidable confederacy. Be pleased to make my compliment to Mrs. Livingston, & the young ladies. I have the honor to be with the highest respect & regard, Yr. Excys. most Obedt. Servt. Jno. Mathews P.S. Maryland have at length agreed to Confederate. This may be relyed on. RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). 1 Congress was considering measures for enhancing Continental revenues proposed on December 18 by the committee on finance, on which Mathews had served. See John Sullivan’s Committee Notes, November 7-23? 1780, note 1. For the five percent ad valorem import duty that Congress proposed to the states, see Samuel Huntington to the States, February 8, 1781, note 1. Jesse Root to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Please your Excellency Philadelphia Jany. 29th 1781 Virginia has Ceded to the united States a large territory of Country lying Northwest of the Ohio, Extracts of which I enclose to you. 1 Maryland we are very Credibly Informed has acceded to the Confederation tho’ no official accounts have yet arrived. 2 By a letter received this day from Mr John Adams Dated in Octr. 3 we have reason to beleive that as the king of great Britain has got a Minister & parliament more to his mind we may lay aside thoughts of peace & prepare for war—for it is his Opinion that great Britain will never acknowledge our Independance as long as there is a british Soldier in our Country nor even till long after. He writes that there
