January 29,1781 639 is Some prospect of a rupture between the united Provinces & great britain. Every days Experience Convinces us of the miseries that flow from want of System in government, of proper arrangement in our finances & on almost every department, & of that ruinous policy which influenced Congress to divide out to the different States the prosecution of the war. The new money So far as it is Issued has been Issued by the States at different values. Some at 1 for 40, by others as equal to Silver, & passes underall the disadvantages of State emissions one State refusing to take the Bills of another, & the bills of Pensylvania which Were Issued equal to Silver & have a tendry law to Support them armed with dreadfull punishments suffer a discount of 25 per Cent. I wish we may grow wise by the Things we experience, natural Causes uniformly produce the Same effects & to follow where reason & nature points is the perfection of humane Policy—the greatest difficulties we have to encounter arise from measures, from having governed too much in particular matters more than from any other Cause—for many particular regulations have Certainly encreased the difficulties they were designed to prevent. Sir, my Ideas of this business differ from most people. I Consider the aggregate wealth of the Individuals as the wealth of the nation & would give full Scope to their wishes & exertions to acquire wealth in a lawfull way, Cautiously guarding against any illicit trade with the Enemy & would fix Certain modes of calling into public use So much money as they were able to pay & the public wants required, this would be the best way of establishing funds, and as the resources of our Country would be almost inexhaustable under the Smiles of heaven if properly encouraged & Cultivated in this way I think we Should Soon become formidable not only to our Enemies but to all the world. Congress are about to recommend to the States to lay duties to the amount of four per Cent on all articles of foreign growth & manufacture imported into these States for the purpose of a revenue 4 —although I like the thing I dislike the mode. I think that Congress alone Can regulate the Trade & with Success Can lay duties on imports for the purpose of raising a revenue and I think they ought to be invested with power for this purpose & the States might grant to them the avails for any limmitted term of time or for a particular purpose—as they should Judge proper to Suspend a regulation of this kind which everyone must see is the most equitable way of raising a Considerable revenue, upon the Concurrence of thirteen States is at least to Suspend it upon uncertainty. Some are for Calling in the plate in order to establish funds but this would be unequal & be attended with great loss. There are but two kinds of public funds that I at present think of; one is money in our Treasury—the other is money in the pockets of the Citizens, the means of acquiring it with established means of Calling it out when the public Exigences require it. The latter I prefer, it is the best fund in the world—give
