640 January 29, 1781 every encouragement to industry & economy take of[f] every restraint but that of trading with the Enemy, & in the Course of one year if we are blessed with fruitfull Seasons the resources of the Country would be nearly doubled, Specie be introduced in plenty & we Should be relieved from a depreciating medium, our Credit be established & we enabled to prosecute the war with a vigor that must Strike our Enemies with terror & astonishment—whereas at present the farmer, the mechanic & the merchant are all discouraged & in Consequence the army is ready to mutiny for want of provisions & pay. It is my Opinion we are in more danger from the regulations that have been adopted & are pursuing than from all the forces of briton. Your Excellency will pardon the free manner in which I write as it is in Confidence & proceeds from an anxious mind & believe me to be with the highest Esteem & Respect your Excellencys most obedt humble Servt, Jesse Root RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 See Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson, January 30, 1781, note 3. 2 See James Duane to George Washington, this date, note 2. 3 That is, John Adams’ October 14, 1780, letter to Samuel Huntington, which was one of several from Adams read in Congress this day. See JCC, 19:96; PCC, item 84, 2:305-6; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:97-98. 4 See the preceding entry, note. Jesse Root to William Williams Dr Sir Philadelphia Jany 29th 1781 I refer you to my letter to his Excellency for Sundry matters which I Shall not repeat in yours. 1 Congress have agreed to appoint a Minister of foreign affairs—a Minister of finance—and there is a report upon the table for appointing a minister of war—& a minister of the Marine. 2 The two latter are to Supersede the board of war & of admiralty as the Minister of finance is the board of Treasury. The new Continental money makes its entrance into the world under many disadvantages. Massachusetts has Issued theirs 1 for 40. Pensylvania & Jersey have Issued theirs 1 for 75. The other day an application was made to Congress to exchange with the loan officer the money of other States for that of Pensylvania as the money of other States would not pass in Pensylvania—a Resolve passed accordingly in less than 24 hours. We were alarmed that all the money of Massachusetts would be brot. in for Exchange Soon if the resolve was Continued upon which it was rescinded as hastily as it passed. In Short we know not what to do. The new money of the different States is neither equal to Silver nor to itself. Maryland has opened an Exchange at the treasury & offers one dollar of the new for 40 of the old but the people will not
