January 29,1781 641 exchange at that rate. New York have represented to Congress that they have not the old Continental in their State to answer their quota—that the Commissary & Quartermasters Certificates to a very large amount are in the hands of their people which must be taken in taxes, that although there are quantities of flour &c in their State to Spare there is not money to purchase it. Is not this a wonderfull paradox—that there is in the States, for its so in this State, Such a plenty of money that it is worth nothing—at the Same time a vast plenty of provisions & goods & yet no money to purchase them—& the people Complaining they Cant pay their rates. These things Cannot Stand together, too much money Certainly there is here in Circulation—& that’s the source of the mischeff. Call that into the Treasury—& enable the public to pay their debts & the people can then pay their rates—besides it would force people to bring what they had to market to get money to pay their taxes. In Short it would make the money valuable & the prices reasonable & of Consequence more plenty for the plenteousness of money does not depend on the nominal amount in Circulation but on the real amount in value & the proportion it bears to other things. Pardon this hasty Scroll & accept my respectfull Compliments to you & your lady & believe me to be with much respect, your most Obedt, humble Servt. Jesse Root RC (CtHi: Williams Papers). 1 See the preceding entry. 2 Congress had created the Department of Foreign Affairs on January 10, but according to the journals Congress did not resolve to appoint a minister of finance until February 7, at which time the creation of departments of war and marine were also approved. See JCC, 19:42-44, 71, 123-24, 126-28. John Sullivan to George Washington Dear General Philadelphia Jany 29th 1781 After my return to this City I had the Honor of your Excellencys favor of the 16th Instant. 1 We 2 found that the almost total Dissolution of the Pensylvania Line by Furlough or Discharge was absolutely necessary & a re-incorporation the only remedy that could be applied for as a body they would have been Troublesome if not Dangerous. They are Trying to Inlist again and I fear too many of the Disorderly ones will get in. Should that be the Case perhaps it might be a wise measure to keep them always Seperated & Intermixed with other Troops on Detachments or in Garrison but I See I have already gone too far & I beg your Excellencys Pardon. I did not mean to Dictate but only to remind you that there are among them too many unprincipled Irish & English men ungovernable in their Nature &
