642 January 29,1781 who are not to be Trusted Long together. As the Jersey Line under took to follow their Example having not the Same reasons as they had recvd both pay & Cloathing, I am happy to hear that Your Excely. adopted a mode for reducing them which with the former would have been highly impolitic & I believe impractacable. I pray That this Flame may not Extend further. I know it is a Trying time with the Americans in General but above all I Lament The Tryals you are Compelled to go Through But I am Convinced we Shall Soon be in better Circumstances. Our Political Disorder has in my opinion Come to a Crisis & the next Campaign we Shall See the Republick rising into Action with new vigor. We are now making Some Arrangements which Evidence the Recovery of our Reason. A Minister of Foreign affairs, one of Finance, a Minister of War & of Marine are to be appointed. Maryland has Acceeded to the association. Virginia has granted Congress all the Lands west of the Ohio. Our Plan of Finance is nearly Through we mean to try for a Loan of Coined Specie & Plate from Individuals in which I Doubt not we Shall Succeed as we mean to Convince them that they will be repaid in Specie. By this means we Intend Establishing a Bank to Support Paper for though paper Bills may well Enough Represent Silver & Gold That really does Exist yet when they are used as a Circulating media to represent Silver & Gold which does not Exist & probably never may—this medium is but the Shadow of a Shade. If this Loan can be obtained & Colo. Laurens Should be Successful in France I am Convinced we Shall be in a very respectable Situation next year & Even if he is unsuccessful, in a much better than we have been for years Past. I promise myself much from our Present & past Distresses. I find that Congress & assemblies begin to Rouse from their Slumber & Individuals are now Alarmed for the Publick Safety who have for years past been Employed in amassing wealth. America has undoubtedly abundant Resources but we Seem to have had neither Efficient Powers or Skill to call them forth. I wish your Excellency would be So oblidging (when you have Liesure to favor me with another Letter) as to give me yr opinion with respect to Colo Hamilton as a Financier. Your Excellencys Letter with a Flying Seal was Delivered to the President & immediately read in Congress 3 & I think you may rest assured that Every Exertion will be made to Prevent Similar Disturbances. I am happy to find That Amidst all the Disorders in the Pensylvania Line they gave Such undeniable Evidence of their attachment to the Cause of their Country Even if it answered no other purpose but that of preventing unfavorable Impressions in Europe. I have the Honor to be very respectfully, Dear General Your Excellencys Most obedient Servant, Jno. Sullivan RC (DLC: Washington Papers).
