646 January 30,1781 William Floyd to Unknown Dear Sir Philadelpha Jany. 30th. 1781 I Reed, yours of the 21st Instant by Mr. Barclay, as also the Letter with which he was Charged from our Legislature, we Immediately laid it before Congress and got it Refered to a Committe of five, 1 there appears a hearty Disposition in Congress to Relieve our State, from the Disagreable Situation they are in; if it is in their power, But their Embarrassments are Such, that it will be attended with Great Difficulty, however I hope they will be able to do something, of which we Shall Duly Advise you. The Spirit the people on the manor has Shewn I think Threatens the State with Disorder and Confusion and if that Spirit Should prevail pretty Generally through the State the most Disagreable Consequences are to be apprehended. I am very happy to hear that Messiurs Philips and Smith are Exchanged. 2 . . . It is with great pleasure I can Inform you that the State of Virginia has Ceeded to Congress for the use of the United States, all their Claims to that Tract of Country to the Westward of the River Ohio, And that the Legislature of Maryland has Agreed to Ratifie the Confederation—this we Consider as a most Capital Event in favour of this Country, and have Every Reason to Expect that many Good Consequences will Result from it. I must beg leave to Refer you to the Inclosed papers for the News and particularly to the paper of this day, which Contains our latest accounts from Virginia and Carolina. From Sir your Most Obedt. and humble Servt. Wm. Floyd RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). i The January 17, 1781, letter of Pierre Van Cortlandt, president of the New York Senate, and Evert Bancker, speaker of the assembly, asking for relief from the burden of supplying the Continental Army and New York s Indian allies, was read in Congress on January 29 and referred to a five-man committee chaired by John Sullivan. A follow-up letter of February 5, 1781, from Gov. George Clinton was referred to the same committee, which submitted a report on March 2. After debate on March 6 and 7, the report was apparently allowed to languish. It was later listed as a postponed report (PCC, item 37, fol. 371). SeeyCC, 19.95, 145, 225 236, 241; and PCC, item 20, 1:365-69, item 67, 2:340-61. 2 Undoubtedly William Philips and John Smith, who had been captured by the British on Long Island and whose exchange is discussed in Clinton, Papers (Hastmgs), 6:403, 514.
