January 30,1781 647 James Lovell to Abigail Adams Madam Jan 30. 1781 I find by your Letter ofJanry. 3d 1 that you are “more reconciled to ambiguities & Cyphers now, from the Necessity of them, than formerly”; I therefore inclose an Alphabet for your use. You are “not a litde thank full that the Robberies were committed now rather than a Twelvemonth ago”; malicious Reference! vindictive momento! 2 Yesterday Letters were reed, from Mr. Adams up to Oct 24. 3 He is greatly irritated at the vile Treatment which Mr. Laurens meets with in the Tower. Oct. 14 4 “repeated Letters from London confirm the Account of Mr. Laurens’s being in the Tower, so close a Prisoner that neither his old Correspondents, nor even his Refugee Relations tire suffered to speak to him. “There have been so many Precedents of Exchanges, Mr. Lovell as well as the Major Generals Sullivan, Sterling, Lee and others having been exchanged as Prisoners of War, that it is very extraordinary they should now treat Mr. Laurens as a Prisoner of State. It is not however merely a Proof that Passion & Caprice govern their Councils. I conceive it is intended to signify to the Tories in America whom they believe to be more numerous than they are, and to their Officers & Troops, serving in that Country, that now they have obtained an Election to their Minds they are determined to prosecute the War, with Vigor, and to bring America still to unlimited Submission. For however our Countrymen may have flattered themselves with Hopes of Peace there is nothing farther from the Thoughts of the King of England, his ministers, Parliament or Nation, for they are all his, than Peace, upon any Terms that America can agree to. There is no future Event more certain in my Mind than that they never will acknowledge American Independence while they have a Soldier in the united States. Nay, they would not do it even after their Troops should be all drawn from the Continent.” Oct. 24 5 “I have reed, several Letters from London concerning Mr. Laurens. It is certain that he has been treated with great Insolence by the Populace in his Journey from Dartmouth to London, and that he is confined to a mean Appartment in the Tower, denied Pen & Ink, and none of his Friends have been able to obtain Leave to visit him excepting his Son & Mr. Manning, and those positively limited to half an hour. He is ill of a Lax, much emaciated & very invective against the authors of his ill Usage. I saw a Letter last night from Mr. {Manning himself} 6 so that there is no doubt of the Truth of this account. This deliberate, this studied manifestation to all the World of their Contempt & Hatred of all America, and of their final Determination to pursue this War to the last Extremity cannot be
