648 January 30,1781 misunderstood. The Honor, the Dignity, the essential Interests, and the absolute Safety of America require that Congress should take some Notice of this Event. I presume not to propose the Measures that might be taken because Congress are in a much better Situation to judge.” Affectly. RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 Abigail’s January 3 letter is in Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterheid), 4:57-58. . , 2 Adams and Lovell were probably referring to Lovell’s playfully suggestive letters ofjanuary 6 and 13, 1780, whose publication would have gready embarrassed them. 3 JCC, 19:96. . . . ♦ John Adams’ October 14, 1780, letter to Samuel Huntington is in PCG, item 84, 2:305-8. . . _ 5 John Adams’ October 24, 1780, letter to Samuel Huntington, is in ibid., pp. 309-10. . L T V A J KJ 6 Lovell actually wrote these two words in cypher even though John Adams had written “Manning himself’ in his letter to Huntington. Ibid. John Mathews to George Washington My Dear sir, Philadelphia. Jany 30th. 1781. As the intelligence received yesterday possibly may not be conveyed to you through any other channel at this time; and being well assured it will aford you much satisfaction to be informed of it: I have therefore taken the liberty of communicating it to you. Tho the information does not come officially from the state, yet it comes in such a manner that it is to be depended on—That Maryland has at last agreed to Confederate. We have the resolves as they passed the lower house, which have since passed the upper house. 1 This is a most important circumstance & comes very seasonably to our relief: for C have been disputing for a long time past, what powers were necessary to enable them to prosecute the business entrusted to them, and were at this moment, as far from agreeing about it, as when we began. I hope now we have some certain principles to act upon, we shall be steady & decisive. Tho’ the powers of the confederation are very inadequate to a vigorous prosecution of the present war, yet we must endeavour to make the most of them we can, and it is better to have some authority to regulate us, than, (as for some time past has been the case,)to have none. Virginia has agreed to a cession of their back lands, with some reservations. This is also a very important matter, our present circumstances considered. I flatter myself it will give us some credit, which we stand much in need of, and may possibly give a spring
