January 30, 1781 649 to our affairs. Congress have been seriously engaged for the last ten days in a committee of the whole, considering of ways & means for defraying the expences of the present year. They have agreed to call on the states for a duty of four Per Ct. on all goods imported—the like duty on all prize goods, and one eighth of a dollar per ton on all foreign shipping. This it is computed will produce about 6 or 700,000 specie dollars. This is but a trifle when compared with our wants, but however we are going on. Please to make my most respectful compliments to Mrs. Washing ton. And believe me to be, My Dr. Sir, With every sentiment of respect & Esteem, Yr. Excys. most Obedt. servt, Jno. Mathews P.S. This has been wrote almost in the dark, & in great haste. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 The Maryland resolves are printed in JCC, 19:138-40. William Sharpe to Nathanael Greene Dear General, Philadelphia Jany. 30th. 1780. In one of the papers inclosed you have an account of the defection of the Pennsylvania line, about one third I am told are discharged from service. About a week ago part of the Jersey line followed their example, but was soon suppressed without any bloodshed. The Commander in chief has determined to bring all mutineers in future, if any should happen, to unconditional obedience. This is a very serious event and strikes a deep blow against the subordination of the Army. If it stops here it may have salutary effects on the councils and efforts of America. All is quiet at New York. Genl. Clinton was much elated on hearing of the revolt in the Pennsylvania line; but on hearing of the execution of his emissary and guide he droped into sadness. Not a word from Capt. Paul Jones—nor a word from Gibera[l]ter. The news from the paracide Arnold you will be fully accquainted with from Virginia. With the highest esteem and regard, I have the honor to be, Sir, Your Most Obt. Humble Servt. Wm. Sharpe P.S. The legislature of Maryland has instructed their Delegates to Sign the confederation, and Virginia has ceded to the united States her claims of Lands west of the Ohio river on some small conditions. This opens a flattering prospect. RC (NNC: Berol Collection).
