650 January 30,1781 South Carolina Delegates to Thomas Jefferson Sir, Philadelphia 30 January 1781 William Parker Esqr. one of the Treasurers of the State of South Carolina who will Deliver this to your Excellency goes on to Virginia for the purpose of removing the Public Papers under his charge to some place of safety as he may be under difficulties respecting Waggons or other means of Transportation, we have taken the liberty of introducing him to your Excellency, and asking such aid herein as circumstances may require & shall be in your power to furnish. 1 We are with Esteem, your Excellency’s most humble Servants, Tho. Bee Isaac Motte Jno. Mathews RC (IMunS). Written by Bee and signed by Bee, Mathews, and Motte. 1 The delegates of South Carolina and Georgia had expressed their concern to Congress on January 16 that the treasury and public papers of those states deposited in Virginia for safekeeping “may be in danger of falling into the enemy’s hands.” Congress thereupon allotted $20,000 “to enable them to remove the said public papers to some place of greater security.” See JCC, 19:63. For Jefferson’s order of April 14 to local officials to provide wagons for Parker, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 5:440-41. Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson Sir Philada. Jany. 30th. 1781 We were honored yesterday with your Excellency’s favor of the 15th inst. inclosing Mr. Anderson’s explanation of his letter to Capt. Trott, and that of the 18th enclosing instructions as to the Mississippi & requesting sundry military supplies, in promoting which no exertions shall be omitted on our part. 1 Your Excellency’s letter to Congress on the subject of the Convention Prisoners & the unequal apportionment of the general resources with respect to the two great Departments was also received yesterday and referred to a Commit tee. 2 The Resolutions of the General Assembly ceding the Territory N. West of the Ohio to the United States was laid before Congress at the same time. 3 Although nothing has been yet done declaratory of their sense of them and although they are not precisely conformable to the recommendations of Congress on the subject, we flatter ourselves that the liberal Spirit which dictated them will be approved & that the public will not be disappointed of the advantages expected from the measure. We have pretty good though unauthenticated information that Maryland has already acceded to the federal Union. Since the Extinguishment of the Mutiny in the Pennsylvania line,
