February 1, 1781 651 some commotions founded on Similar complaints have taken place in that of New Jersey. But we have the pleasure to inform you that the prudent & Seasonable remedies applied have re-established order & discipline among the troops. We have the honor to be with the most perfect esteem & regard, Yr. Excelly’s. Most Obt. servts. Jos. Jones. James Madison Junr. Theok. Bland RC (DLC: Continental Congress Miscellany). Written by Madison and signed by Madison, Bland, and Jones. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:300. 1 For Jefferson’s letters to the delegates of January 15 and 18, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:376, 398-400. 2 Although five letters from Gov. Jefferson were read on January 29, his second letter to Samuel Huntington of January 15, which is in ibid., pp. 369-70, was referred to a committee of three, whose report was read in Congress on February 15. See JCC, 19:95-96, 144, 147-48. 3 Jefferson had enclosed these January 2 Virginia resolutions in his January 17 letter to Huntington, for which see JCC, 19:96; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:386-91, where the resolutions are printed in full and the editors provide a lengthy discussion of the difficulties that the text sent to Congress later presented. For the congressional background of these resolutions, see James Madison to Joseph Jones, September 19, 1780, note. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Philada Feb. 1st 1781 My last was by Major Clarkson. 1 He is a young officer of military Merit. I wish you would entertain him with a Dish of Tea. Our new Era of Government, I fancy, has occasiond a Revolution in political Circles & a Change of Connections. I cannot otherwise account for the long Silence of my Friend Doctor Cooper. I used to correspond with him very confidentially. We indeed thought aloud together. But I have receivd only one Letter from him since I left Boston, which was deliverd to me by Mr A Lee. I considerd it as a Compliment to that most deserving Patriot, rather than a Letter of Friendship to me. I have written several Times to him, 2 & once desired particular Information, which he might have given me without offending any Man, but he has not done it. I hope the Doctor does not think his Letters troublesome to me. He has no Reason to think so. But, he chuses to close the Correspondence, & you know, that I am disposd on such Occasions, to retaliate. It sometimes affects my Feelings, but I shall never be in Debt on that Score. You may let the Dr read this Letter if he pleases, but no other Person; for when I think amiss of the private Conduct of a Friend, I let none know it, but him & you; Indeed I shall say nothing to you at present that I would not wish him to know. 3
