February 1, 1781 657 no pretence for delay, without rendering themselves absolutely odious & becoming responsible for Consequences. It is not doubted but Prussia will accede to the Convention; and probably the Emperor will do the same; for the Empress was so well pleased with his Visit that she gave him a Man of War. It is clear Portugal accedes. To this foreign Intelligence, I may add that Virginia relinquishes her Claims northwest of the Ohio under certain Conditions; and Maryland confederates. Are we to sleep upon these Events or to rouse ourselves to one general Vigorous Exertion? Surely the latter. Yrs. affectly, J L [P.S. ] As I send to Secy. Avery 3 the Virginia Act at large you will gain further Knowledge of it. Mr. J. A. thinks that a Minister with Credentials from these United States to their High Mightynesses and to the Stadholder would be very agreable at this Juncture; and promote his Business there: He is trebly fortified. 4 RC (CSmH: Cooper Collection). 1 That is, Armand-Charles-Augustin de La Croix de Castries, comte de Charlus, son of the marquis de Castries, the newly appointed French minister of marine. 2 That is, by Charles W. F. Dumas, in an October 4, 1780, letter to Congress, which was read onjanuary 24, 1781. See JCC, 19:78; and PCC, item 93, 1:472-78. 3 Lovell’s letter to John Avery has not been found. 4 John Adams had made this statement in an October 11, 1780, letter to Congress. Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:95. For Adams’ appointment to this position, see Samuel Huntington’s letters to Adams, January 1 and 9, 1781. James Lovell to Horatio Gates Dear Sir 1 Feb 1781. I am to acknowledge the Receipt of your Favor of the 3d of last month by Capt. Deveaux who appears to be a very modest discrete Gentleman, but I fear he will not find any agreable military Post of Employment. I am most sensibly affected with what gave you encreased Pain the nearer you approached to your Home. I wish you may find Consolation from every Source which Philosophy & Religion furnish. A Report prevails this morning that a Speech of the King of England is circulating in which he presses for Peace, but all my foreign Information bespeaks virulent War. Holland cannot well delay to join fully with the northern Powers, as the Plenipoes of the Provinces have sent Dispatches from Petersburgh containing Articles of Compact similar to those which the other Powers have come into; and also two Articles particular,
