658 February 1, 1781 one to promote the Recovery of the Vessels taken from the Dutch by England—the other to secure Holland by the Power of the New Confederacy from all Insult or Injury with which she may be threatned for having become a Member. As to the Puff which Britain makes about a late Compact with Denmark it is founded in an Agreement for a free Export of salted Provision from Danemarc and a Consent on her Part not to export what She cares little about, Tar, Sail Cloth &c. &c. But this Explanation of an old Treaty does not lessen the Obligation of the Court of Danemarc to support the Rights of the other Parties of the new Confederation, nor does that Court appear to wish to be quit of such Obligation. 1 I yesterday reed, the inclosed from Doctor Gordon. 2 He is a Lover of friendly Correspondence, but I really have not Time to do his attentions Justice. Present my affectionate Regards to your Lady and be assured of my continual Regard as yr Friend, and humble Servant, James Lovell RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 See the preceding entry. 2 The enclosed letter from Dr. William Gordon, dated “Jamaica Plain Jany 17, 1781,” is in the Gates Papers, NHi. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry Dear Sir Feb. 1. 1781 Mr. Ross having breakfasted with me this morning put the inclosed memdum. into my Hand, 1 agreable to a Request made upon my first receiving yr. Letter. I will attend to the Arrival of the Box, and follow your former Instructions. Jones had not sailed the 14 of Novr. but was soon to be on his Way. Maryland has been induced, by the curious Cession of Virginia, to join fully in the Confederation. This will be of much advantage to our Cause abroad. We are bogueing about a Fund to be obtained from the States for sinking all our Debts. We cannot show to our own People or to Foreigners any Certainty of their Interest being punctually paid, so that we can have but little prospect of Loans at present. I have requested Something of Doctor Holten which I wish you to aid. 2 You know the Quibbles here. Endeavor that our State may have black & white for all their Advances on continental Account; I cannot yet find how they are clearly warranted in their Advances to Agent Allen. I am murdered by a Toothach but I must go out, for Mr A 3
