February 1, 1781 659 is critical about our giving the Voice of the State without 3 being present, tho we have suppressed an Instruction that looks like it till we can know whether such was the Intent of the Court. If it was I hope a 4th Delegate will let us know it from his own Lips. Yrs. affectly. JL [P. S. ] “What does Mr. Gerry never send his compliments, does he never say any Thing about us? does he not about me?” Mr. Gaviz quasi dixisset Gerry Mr. Ross could not make out better with Carmichaels memdum. RC (DLC: Gerry Papers, photostat). 1 This memorandum has not been identified. 2 See Lovell to Samuel Holten, January 29?, 1781. 3 That is, Samuel Adams. For discussion of the subject of this paragraph, Massachusetts’ requirements for casting the state’s vote in Congress, see Lovell to Holten, December 19, 1780, and January 2, 1781. Charles Thomson to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Secy’s Office Feby 1st. 1781. I received yesterday from the Board of Admiralty your letter of the 19th Ulto. with 43 bonds enclosed. 1 As I have reason to apprehend that Your Excellency has not received my letter of the twenty Eighth day of July last covering fifteen Commissions &c for armed Vessels, I enclose you a copy thereof together with the Act of Congress therein referred to by which You will perceive that the Commissions &c issue from this Office as formerly. 2 I now take the liberty of transmitting You twenty four blank Commissions, bonds and Instructions for Armed Vessels for the use of your State; when more are wanted they shall on Application to this Office be immediately forwarded. I am, with great respect, Your Excellency’s Most obedt. humble Servt. Cha Thomson Secy. RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 Trumbull’s January 19 letter to the Board of Admiralty is in PCC, item 37, fols. 351-52. 2 See Thomson to the States, July 28, 1780. Virginia Delegates’ Proposed Instructions [February 1, 1781] 1 The Delegates from Virginia have received an instruction from the General Assembly of that State 2 which authorises them to inform
